
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Baron, Shappell foresee successful transition 
President-elect feels experience will speed new administration's upcoming adjustment 
1\y MADDIE HANNA 
N~w' Wri1er 
With tlw stressful campaign­ing now hd1ind thnm. Dave Baron and Lizzi Shappell, Notn~ Danw's prnsidnnt-e leet and vieo prosident-nlnct, know thn hardest work lins alwad ­long lwforn they assume ofliee on April I. 
But both Baron and Shappell lwlinve thn transition pnriod, traditionally a dil'lieult time for incoming administrations, will llf' positive and suecnssful. 
"It's guarantned to be a smooth transition." Shappell said. "Bncause of our involve­ment this year, it's going to make tho transition easier." 
Tlw first stnp during this 
transition period is choosing a staff, Baron and Shappnll said. Staff snloction includes picking a ehief exoeutive assistant and committee heads for Senate committees, among other posi­tions. 
Baron said df1tormining next year's chief executive assistant will be difficult, a choiee even more complicated by the fact he served in tho same position this year. · 
"That's not going to be an easy decision," Baron said. "There are incredibly gifted people Ito choose from], and each different personality brings something. as a commu­nicator, advisor, coordinator ­it's a lot of different responsi­
see TRANSITION/page 6 


By MEGAN O'NEIL Assistant News Editor 
While many may not consid­er South Bend the most ideal wedding destination, couples with connections to Notre Dame are signing up by the dozens to say their 'I do's' on eampus at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Constructed in the 1870's, the Basilica has long been a popular choice for current University students and grad­uates planning their wnd­dings. In fact, in recent years the Basilica has become so sought after that during the height of the wedding season -May through August ­four weddings arn celebrated 

Couples flock to exchange vovvs at Basilica 
there every Saturday. 
Couples, along with their florists and photographers, receive exactly 90 minutes to get into the church, get mar­rind and exit in time for the next wedding. The cere­monies are scheduled at 9 a.m., 11 a.m., 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. 
"It's a very tight schedule," sa.id Hose Wrey, a wedding coordinator for the Basilica. "You have to be very prompt. I think the organ plays the first note as soon as the elock hits the hour, and the bride better be ready to go." 
A 5 p.m. vigil Mass follows the final wedding of the day. 
"Sometimes bridns arn of 
see WEDDINGS/page 4 

Queer Filtn Festival tnet w-ith praise, protest 
Hy STEVE KERINS 
NewsWriler 
Notre l>anw's second annu­al <)u en r Film Fns t.i val con­rludt'd Saturday af'tnr al.lraeting large crowds to tho l>nBarlolo Center for the I'Prf'orming Arts and funling dnbatP ovnr how gay and lns­hian issues an• addrnssnd on a Catholic campus. 
In addition to tlw l'nstival's l'ilms, which toudwd on vari­ous aspects of homosexuality, a JHLIH'I discussing tlw future of gay marriagn featured SistPr .Jc~anninn Cramick. the s.uhjc~ct ~~~· f'es.tival r.!'m ."l.n 
C. o o d (. o n s c 1e n c e ; <1 a tl Bt~dPrman, a Notrn Dame his­
tory professor; and  Brendan  
Fay,  the  founder  of  New  
York's inr.lusive St.  Patrick's  
Paradn.  

Fewer than 10 atlendnes gathen~d both inside and out­side the pnrforming arts cen­ter prior to Friday's panel. They handc~d out a variety of texts, including copies of a snction of the Catnehism rnf'nrring to homosexuality, background information about Cramiek and state­ments ·concerning the Queer Film Festival from Bishop .John I>'Arey of the Fort Wayne-South Bcmd diocese. 
()' Arcy criticized Notre Damn's sponsorship of the festival Thursday, arguing that such an nvnnt was "an abuse of aeadnmie frendom." lin snnt a letter to the South Bend Tribune that heavily critieiznd the nvent's organiz­ers for not considering the Catholic opinion, especially 
see FESTIVAL/page 6 



Students prep for MCATs at Kaplan 
By jEN ROWLING News Writer 
Notre Damn studnnts have bnnn studying for tlw April I(> Modkal Colloge Admission Test (MCAT) by spnnding long hours in the library and tak­ing ofl'-eampus tnst prnpara­tion eoursns. 
The Stanloy Kaplan course~. of'f'ernd at thn South Bnnd Kaplan Centnr, is a popular preparation dwicn for many pre-mod students. This eourso givns students the ehancn to take fivn f'ull-lnngth practico oxams bof'orn thny sit f'or thn actual oxam. 
Junior Miduwl ZinL'ima.ster startnd taking a thrne-hour dass onen a week in thn f'all. 
"It snoms like just about everybody who takns tlw MCAT takes tlw elass," lw said. 
Casey lkising, also a junior. hogan the Kaplan eourso in October and will continun attnnding the dass every Sunday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. until thn nxaminat.ion . 
For studonts who did not begin last snrnnstnr. Kaplan oll'nrs anotlwr eoursc~. which started Jan. 13 and will nnd a wnek prior to tlw actual nxamination. This is an intnn­sivn eourse that nwnts t.hnH' days a wonk liu· thrne hours 
p(~r sc~ssion. 
In addition to taking thn Kaplan classes, many pn~­
see MCAT/page 4 
Monday, February 14, 2005

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Dateable: Are You? 
I'm a second semester senior, which, besides having no Friday classes and a goal to go out at least three times a week, means I'm witnessing the annual ritualof"ring by spring." I, however, 
will not be receiv­ ,  
ing a fancy new piece of jewelry by  Carrie Franklin  
the Grotto this  
year. This isn't a  Advertising  
problem, because the idea of setting  Manager  
up house for two in  

the next year is kind of intimidating. Still, the idea of relationships has been on my mind a lot lately. Maybe it's been prompted by my recent Christmas gifts of two books-"Dateable: Are You?" and "He's Just Not That Into You," inspired by HBO's Sex and the City. 
So after four years of college, here are my lessons learned about relation­ships: 
1. 
AIM, Thefacebook and other forms of computer "communication" don't help dating. Any conversation that can be ended with "tty!" does not qualify as a personal way to "really connect" with someone. And let's face it, Thefacebook is little more than a high-tech-and creepy -way to secretly stalk some­one. 

Also. it's not dating if you only hang out with someone at a bar or party. So go out on dates. I know you think it's hard at Notre Dame, but it's cold and we have parietals-it's the perfect excuse to go cuddle with someone at the late movie. 

2. 
If you feel yourself asking repeat­edly. "What's going on with this rela­tionship?" then it's time to clarify. You may not get the answer you wanted, but wouldn't you rather know that now than three months down the road? 

Also, if you are the one being asked the dreaded question, recognize and respect the courage it took them to ask by giving an honest, straightforward answer. Remember that you both deserve more than ambiguity. 

3. 
Once you do frnd that significant other, don't forget your friends. Sounds obvious, but a lot of couples haven't fig­ured this one out. If you can't do your own thing and trust the other person to do the same, then the relationship isn't healthy. You may get burned on the trust thing, but at least you'll still have your friends to help you through it. 

4. 
Ending a relationship should be like removing a Band-aid. You may think you'll spare the pain by saying nice things, but actually you just pro­long it. 


Better to rip it off fast by saying, "You're boring, he/she is hot. I don't want to date you anymore." Ouch. But then the recently dumped knows exact­ly how you feel and can get over you quicker. 
Lastly, when embarking on any rela­tionship, remember what the great author A.A. Milne, who wrote Winnie the Pooh, said: "Promise to remember that you're braver than you believe, and stronger that you seem and smarter than you think." 
It's Valentine's Day-go get 'em! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Carrie Franklin at cfrankli@nd. edu 
CORRECTION 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mis­take, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WOULD YOU EVER GET MARRIED IN THE BASILICA? WHY OR WHY NOr? 

Armene Gavoor Sean Grady Caitlin Kelly Katie Harthen Brittany Pangburn Cassie Quaqlla 
sophomore sophomore sophomore senior freshman freshman Holy Cross Siegfried Le Mans Opus McCandless Le Mans 
"Love to, but I "Nope, I'm ''I'm going back "No, because "No, because "If my Prince 
,

have to get going to Vegas. to my home I'm not going to I'm going to get Charming married in an state-marry a married comes in the Armenian Georgia." Domer. " somewhere form ofa 
Church. Plus, where Leprechaun, I'd probably get Permacloud why not?" lost going down doesn't exist." 



the aisle." 


CLEMENT SUHENDANThe Observer 

Even In the cold weather, birds find their way to the blrdfeeders hung outside a window of Siegfried Hall. 
OFFBEAT 

Thousands of couples lock lips at kissing festival 
MANILA, Philippines ­Thousands of couples got Valentine's Day celebra­tions going early, locking lips at midnight Saturday in what organizers dubbed "Lovapalooza 2." 
More than 5,300 couples kissed for at least 10 sec­onds last Valentine's Day in Manila for an event known as "Lovapalooza," breaking Chile's record of 4,445 in the Guinness World Records book. 
This year's event was aimed at "a million kisses, a million heartbeats, and probably a million people falling in love the second time around," said a statement from toothpaste maker Unilever Phili­ppines, one of the event's organizers. 
The kissing festival was held simultaneously in at least four cities nation­wide. Despite the large crowds, the figures appeared to be well below the target. 
Driver makes 'Survivor' tape on school bus 

BUENA VISTA, Pa. -A school bus driver encour­aged students to jump around, throw things and misbehave on her moving bus so she could make an audition videotape for the reality television show "Survivor," police said. 
Maureen Monaghan was charged with recklessly endangering children after allegedly urging 10 students to act up on her bus for the video, which she hoped would earn her a spot on the CBS show. 
A separate camera on the inside of the bus recorded the Jan. 6 inci­dent, and the bus compa­ny gave the footage to police. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Professor Ralph Mcinerny will be having a Mystery Writing Workshop from 3 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. in the LaFortune's McNeill Room today. The event is cosponsored by the Student Union Board and the Notre Dame Literary Festival. 
Notre Dame alumnus Todd Tucker will give a talk about his books "Notre Dame vs. The Klan: How the Fighting Irish Defeated the Ku Klux Klan" and "Notre Dame Game Day" today at 7:30 p.m. in the Oak Room of South Dining Hall. 
Jean Ann Linney, vice presi­dent and associate provost, will give a lecture entitled "Discriminatory Harassment" Tuesday at 5:30 p.m. in 129 DeBartolo Hall. The event is sponsored by ND Watch. 
Ron Koperski from Bradley University will be giving a lec­ture on "Sports and the Media: An Examination of the Ethical Elements" at 12:30 
p.m. Wednesday in Giovanini Commons in Mendoza. The lecture is part of the Mendoza College of Business' Ethics Week. 
Father Joseph Komonchak from the Catholic University of America will be giving a lec­ture entitled "Vatican II: Historical Relevance for 21st Century Believers" at 7:30 
p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge in Le Mans Hall at Saint Mary's College on Thursday. The lec­ture is sponsored by the Center for Spirituality. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

33 21 

HIGH 
LOW 22 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a:: 
L&.l 
:::1: 

!;;: 
L&.l 

3: 
.....
cr: 
(,) 


0 

HIGH 45
.... 
LOW 39 

32 27 


HIGH LOW 

31 18 

Atlanta 59 I 47 Boston 38 I 36 Chicago 48 I 37 Denver 56 I 33 Houston 75 I 52 Los Angeles 65 I 50 Minneapolis 41 I 24 New York 42 I 37 Philadelphia 44 I 43 Phoenix 72 I 55 Seattle 45 I 29 St. Louis 56 I 41 Tampa 77 I 59 Washington 50 I 43 
.' ' 

-----------------~~----­
Monday, February 14, 2005 The Observer + NEWS 
Winter Walk supports solidarity 
Community participates in St. Margaret's House's largest fundraiser 
By PETER LEAHY 
News Writer 

Bain and bitter winds proved no match for the spirit of the South Bend community Sunday whnn p1mple congregated for the St. Margaret's I louse sixth annu­al Winter Walk. Hesidents of the city joined forces with many Notre Damn and Saint Mary's studnnts, as well as members of the Saint Mary's softball and ten­nis tnams. to show their support for single mothers and their chil­dren by walking a 1.5 mile course along the streets of South Bend. 
Walkers collected pledges prior to thn event to raise money for St. Margaret's, which provides a day center for women and chil­dnm in need. According to St. Margaret's Board President Nancy Brennen, the walk has benn the major contributor that allows St. Margaret's volunteers to provide care. 
"It's our largest fundraiser," she said. prior to this year's walk. "Last year, we raised over $40.000." 
With these funds, St. Margaret's is able to provide lunch for 70 women and children every day, Brnnncn said. 
The walk is also an important way to alert the community about the needs of single moth­ers and their children, she said. 
"The whole point of' the walk is to raise awareness about women in povnrty and who don't have 

Members of the Saint Mary's softball team participate in the St. Margaret's House sixth annual Winter Walk Sunday. 
transportation," she said. "It gives us some visibility when you see this mass of people walking down South Bend." 
Also present at the walk was a group of young girls from St. Joseph's grade school in South Bend. 
Molly Clark, a seven-year-old from Granger, has been to the walk every year except last year. This year, she raised $107 for the cause. 
"I knocked on some doors and called a couple people," she said. 
She explained the rain did not bother her, and that she under­stood what St. Margaret's meant to the community. 
"It helps children and women," Clark said. 
Eight year-old Mary Kate Hall expressed support for the walk, as well. Hall and her friends were active in promoting the walk at their school. 
"We did announcements, like little conversations over the loud­speaker to talk about what Winter Walk was about," Hall said. 
Hall and her friends visit the people St. Margaret's each month and hold food collections for homeless in the area. 
"(We're] trying to help them, make them feel better," she said. 
Older students showed similar concern for single mothers and their children. 
Freshman Zahm I I all resident Mike McKenna emphasized stu­dents at Notre Dame are part of a codependent society and are obligated to help the community. 
"It's important to remember that Notre Dame is a part of a larger community," he said, "and this is a way to show that we're a part of that." 
Contact Peter Leahy at pleahy@nd.edu 
page 3 



Charles svveeps shovv with eight Grammys 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -Hay Charles, whose musical legacy erased boundaries between genres and genera­tions, received a fitting musical eulogy Sunday night as his final album, "Genius Loves Company," won a leading eight Grarnmys. 
Charles' album of ducts, recorded in the 11nal months of his life, was the clear sen­timental favorite. It won album of the year and best pop album; the song "Here We Go Again," with Norah Jones, won record of the year and .best pop collabora­tion with vocals. 
''I'm going to cry. actual­ly," Jones said as she accepted the trophy for record of the year. "I think it just shows how wonderful music can be. It's at a hun­dred percent with Hay Charles." 
Other winners included Alicia Keys and Usher, each nominated for eight Grammys. Keys won four while Usher had three. They shared one award. for best R&B performance by a duo or group with vocals for their No. 1 duet. "My Boo." 
U2 won three awards, including best rock perform­ance by a duo or group. Green Day, the most nomi­nated rock act with six for their politically chargc\d punk opera "American Idiot," won best rock album. 
"Hock 'n· roll can be dan­gerous and fun at thn same time, so thanks a lot," Green Day lead singer Billie Joe Armstrong said as he accepted the award. 
Keys had a chance to win more than any other woman in one evening. In 2002 Keys won five Grammys for her debut album. "Songs in A Minor," becoming only the second woman to win that many in one night. (Lau.ryn Hill won five in 1999; Jones matched Hill and Keys' feat in 2003.) 
John Mayer was one of the artists who prevented a record-tying night by Keys, as his mellow tribute "Daug­hters" won song of the year. 
Want to write for News? Calll-5323 for info. 
SAINT MARY'S STUDY ABROAD INFO SESSION 
TUESDAY FEBRUARY 15, 2005 7:00-8:30 pm DEBARTOLO HALL NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 
SMC, ND, & HC STUDENTS ARE WELCOME!! 
DeBartolo
Semester 

Rm#

Pro rams 
ROME, ITALY 

213 
MAYNOOTH, 

208 
IRELAND SEMESTER 

214 AROUND THE WORLD SEVILLE, SPAIN 
209 DI.JON, FRANCE 
215 
Summer Programs  DeBartolo Rm.#  
MEXICO CITY SURVEY:  207  
Study of American Business  
EUROPEAN STUDY  216  
PROGRAM  
GREECE STUDY TOUR  216  
KOREAN CULTURE  217  
STUDY  
HONDURAS SERVICE  210  
LEARNING PROGRAM  

Still Accepting Applications for 

Apply on-line for Summer '05 & Fall '05
Semester & Summer Programs deadline March 1, 2005. 
wmv.saintmarys.edu/~cwil/
lnt'l Ed. Office: 284-4263 
Korean Culture Study Program-Sarah Paladino SMC ·os 
Monday, February 14, 2005

page 4 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS 



Weddings· 
continued from page 1 
the opinion that if they have the last wedding they will have more time. but there is still the Mass," Wrey said. 
Even the rehearsals are kept on a strict timetable. The first rehearsal begins at 6 
p.m.. and each rehearsal lasts exactly 45 min­utes. 

florists must use containers that present no danger of leaking. Throwing petals or rice is prohibited. All flowers must be removed from the Basilica immediately follow­ing the ceremony. Photographers are prohibited from using flash photography. and they cannot mount any photo or video lighting racks. 
"We recommend you don't really need a lot of flowers," Wrey said. "The Basilica is so beautiful that sometimes you 
There are no don't even see
"We met here, and
weddings on the flowers."
everything we have
weekends that But the long list coincide with done together has of technicalities other major does not make
been here." 
campus events, the Basilica a less such as home appealing loca­football games Justin Gallagher tion for many and Alumni Notre Dame senior couples. 
Weekend. 
Couples are advised to reserve a date at the Basilica roughly a year ahead. Reservations open by telephone the first Monday of March for the following year. 
"We'll get about 60 reserva­tions that day," Wrey said. "All together. we have 101 wedding slots open January through December 2006." 
In order to be married at the Basilica. the groom or the bride must be a Notre Dame student, graduate. faculty member, current student, administrative staff member or a member of Sacred Heart parish. The fee is $450. 
The bride and groom may invite any priest to preside over the ceremony, but Wrey said the presiding priest is often connected to Notre Dame. 
''I'd say the majority of priests are from here on cam­pus. because it is usually someone the students have known for a while here," Wrey said. 
Due to the age and sacred space of the Basilica. tight restrictions are placed on flo­ral decorations and photogra­phy. Upon making their reser­vation. couples receive a packet detailing the policies. 
According to the guidelines, 

Current seniors 
Justin Gallagher and Melissa Mc;Grady are get­ting married at the Basilica in June with Stanford Hall rector Father Tom Gaughan presid­ing. The ceremony will take place just a couple of weeks after graduation and Gallagher's Navy commission­ing. Gallagher. formerly of Stanford Hall, called the Basilica a logical choice for his 
general chemistry knowledge. 
"[This Basilica is] a
upcoming nup­Notre Dame com­
An 80-minute verbal reasoning 
tials. beautiful place for munity are 
section follows. The next sec­
tion contains writing samples 
"We met here, a wedding, and it's drawn to the 
and everything Basilica largely 
and requires the test-taker to
prestigious. " 
that we have because of ·the 
complete two essays in 60 min­
done together role Notre Dame 
utes. The final section, biologi­
has been here," Lori Wrobleski has played in 
cal science, lasts 100 minutes 
he said. "It is their lives, 
and tests biology and organic
wedding coordinator 
kind of a special place for us." 
Since the two seniors are from different parts of the country. Gallagher said the Basilica is also a good mutual location of importance for both himself and his fiancee. 
''I'm from New York [and] she is from Colorado, so why don't we split the difference arid get married here?" Gallagher said. 
Kate McCusker and Brian Oleniczak, 2001 graduates. selected the Basilica for their June 24, 2004 wedding because of strong family ties 
It only took you 20 years to grow this fuzz. Happy Birthday! Love, Your Girls 
.--------------,-------------------­
.10 ~ c c o s 
Proprietors 

II..l\vlJ Warren . & Linda 1 Restaurant 
1'First Oriaina( Pizza in tTown! 
Since 1951 Specializing in Italian Entrees Tues. -Thurs.: 5:00PM -11 :OOPM Fri. -Sat.: 5:00PM -1:OOAM 

to the University and its suit­able geographic location. The 




MCAT 
couple currently lives in Chicago where both are work­
continued from page 1 
ing on graduate degrees. McCusker is from St. Louis and Oleniczak is from Grand 

med students sacrifice spring Rapids. Mich. 
break trips for last minute "We decided. since we met 
studying. Reising, a Notre at Notre Dame, [that] we 
Dame cheerleader, will stay on wanted to get married there," 
campus to study for the MCAT McCusker said. "It is really 
before leaving on Tuesday to meaningful to us." 
cheer at the men's basketball The time limit on the 
Big East Tournament in New Basilica had no effect on their 
York City. decision. 
"I think it is a growing trend," "I wish we could have 
Reising said. "Many students longer to take pictures and to 
who -took it last year stayed be more relaxed. but it is still 
here the entire break to study, definitely worth it," McCusker 
and many students I have spo­said. 
ken to this year who are taking Lori Wrobleski, who has 
it have the same plan." been coordinating weddings 
Junior pre-med student John at the Basilica for 10 years. 
Piposar said he is one of the said the job is even more fun 
students who plans to forgo than when she first started. 
traveling and stay in Alumni "I love my brides and my 
Hall over spring break. grooms too," Wrobleski said. 
"I know a few other kids who "It is such a happy time in 
are staying along with me," their lives." 
Piposar said. "But I also know Wrobleski said she has 
some kids who are still going on worked several memorable 
spring break or else they are weddings. One of the most 
going home to study. Generally, remarkable was for a couple 
I'd say it's pretty mixed." that bused their 500 guests in 
The MCAT is divided into four from Texas. Another wedding 
sections. The first section is a she did had only nine people 
100-minute physical science in attendance. 
section that tests physics and Members of the 
Wrobleski said. 

chemistry skills. "It's a beautiful 
The three science sections of place for a wedding, and it's 
the MCAT have a scoring range prestigious," she said. "It is 
of one to 15. The writing sam­just awesome when you see 
ple is rated alphabetically from all those lights. and the music 
'J' to 'T,' with 'J' being the low­is just beautiful." 
est score and 'T' being the highest score. The highest possible score on Contact Megan O'Neil at 
the exam is 45, with the nation­onei0907@nd.edu 
al average being 24. 
Medical school applicants have a national acceptance rate of 47 percent. But Piposar said an exam brochure given to him by the University accounted Notre Dame students having a 79-percent acceptance rate over the past four years. 
During the 2003-04 school year. Notre Dame students applying to medical schools with a 3.5 to 4.0 GPA had a 97 percent acceptance rate. Those with a 3.25 to 3.4fJ GPA had a 64 percent acceptance rate for the same period. 

The average MCAT score for acceptance at a top medical school is 32, Piposar said. Such medical schools include Harvard University, Washington University in St. Louis. Johns Hopkins University. Duke University and University of Pennsylvania. 
Piposar said medical schools focus heavily on an applicant's MCAT scores. 

"It's one of the only ways med schools can compare prospec­tive students from different schools." he said. "Initially, most med schools look at your GPA and MCAT score to get a general idea of the caliber of student applying." 
After comparing MCAT scores, medical school admis­sions advisors look at personal statements. job experience and volunteering. 
Reising said she feels admis­sions advisors may ignore defi­ciencies in these areas if a can­didate's test score is exception­ally high. 
"Although it is taken into con­sideration with many other aspects, including GPA and extracurricular activities, lack of excellence in these other areas has a tendency to be 'overlooked' in lieu of a high MCAT score," she said. 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 


What's your sc.holarship? 
Find your scholarship opportunities at our re-launched Scholarship Channel. 
powered by:

® lk~~e5(.J,olu.r 

537 North St. Louis South Bencl, IN 574-233-24()4 
C:ut out this coupon for $2.00 off any pizza. Dine-in only. Expires )/31/2005 

-----------------------------------· 







ORLD & NATI.ON 
Monday, February 14, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE sERVICES pageS 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Sharon cracks down on extremists 
JI·:HUSAI.EM -Hesponding to death throats against government ministers, Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon ordered law enforcement agencies Sunday to crack down on Jewish extn~mists opposed to the planned withdrawal from the (;aza Strip. 
Cabirwt ministers said thn ehargnd climat<~ is rPminiscent of the period before the 1995 assassination of l'rimn Minister Yitzhak Habin who was in pt~ace negotiations with tlw l'aiPslinians. One minister warned Sharon himself could bncome a target. l·:xtrl'mists have put up posters across the rountry that say Babin and tlw prime minis­tn's deceased wife, Lily, are "waiting for Sharon." 
Despite tlw concerns. Sharon's Cabinet approved a list of 500 l'alnstinian prisoners to be ndnased in coming days, and several hundn~d Palnstinian workers wen~ permitted to return to jobs in Israel in line with agree­nwnts reaclwd at a Mideast summit last week. 
Spanish skyscraper up in flames 
MAIJHII>. Spain -Firefighters struggled for nearly 24 hours before finally controlling Madrid's worst blaze in recent memory, whirh n~duced ()()(' or the city's tallest office buildings to a blacknrwd hulk of twisted 
wn~ckagt•. 
Thick smoke and tempPratures that soared as high as 1.472 d<~gr<H~s Fahrenlwit prevent­ed firPfight<H"S from ontering the 32-sto;y Windsor building until late Sunday. The lire, which lel't s<~vnn peoplo slightly injured, broke out Saturday just before midnight. 
The ol'fien tower was heavily damaged but did not collapse, as had been feared. llowov<~r. officials said it was unstable and closPd the an~a around the building. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Two gunmen open fire at mall 
KINGSTON, N.Y.-At least two gunmen oponed fiw Sunday inside a crowded mall in upstate Nnw York. wounding one person, authorities said. 
Tho gunnwn began shooting inside the lludson Vallny Mall in Kingston, nearly 90 miles north of' New York City. One gunman was taken into police custody. 
1\t least one person was shot in the leg and nvacuat<~d by helicopter to an Albany hospi­tal. polico said. 
The mall was evacuatt~d after the shooting, but an unknown number of workers rPnHtirwd insidn after police surrounded the building. 
"l•:vnryone was running and screaming. Tlwn I !ward the shots," witness Heather Craig told Fox Nows. "People were running ovnr p<~ople. Othnr people were just standing tlwre dumbfounded." 
Man caught soliciting suicides 
I'OHTLANI>. Ore. -A man who used an lntm·rwt chat room to try to set up a mass suieidn on Valtmtine's Day had been trying to persuadn women for at least five years to engage in sex acts with him and then kill thmnselves. a sheriff said Sunday. 
(;erald Krein faces charges of solicitation to commit murder, but prosecutors are nxpeetnd to incmase the charge to attempted manslaughtnr Monday, said Klamath County Slwrill' Tim Evinger. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Conner Prairie faces challenges 
INDI/\N/\POI.IS -Slopping the hogs on an IHHOs farm won't appeal to everybody, but Connor l'rairif\ and. other living history muse­ums arn putting their guests to work in an dl'ort to boost attnndance. 
Conner Prairie. which soon may be separat­nd from longtime trustee Earlham College undnr an agreement announced a week ago, gel<; high marks among families as a favorite local destination. 
But the Fishers museum, with a historic farm. pioneer village and other attractions. has lost more than $3.5 million in recent years. 
IRAQ 
New era for Shiites and Kurds 
Elections bring relief to some and force disaffected Sunni Arabs to the margins 
Associated Press  
BAGIIDAD ThP  
Shiites' time has come in  
Iraq and it's a new era for  
the Kurds as well. The  
question now is what those  
two long-repressed groups  
will do with their newly  
found power. and how  
their goals might affect the  
Sunni Arabs, who largely  
stayed away from Iraq's  
elections.  
There was dancing in the  
streets in KUt·dish cities on  
Sunday after elections  
results were announced,  
and a strong but quiet sat­ 
isfaction among Shiites - 
both groups that suffered  
not just politically but with  
their peoples' lives under  
Saddam Hussein's brutal  
rule.  
YPt even as they danced  
and claimed their rights.  
the Kurds -and especially  
the Shiites -are mindful  
they must move eautiously  
if they want to reach out to  
the Sunni Arabs and other  
Iraqis to form a new and  
inclusive government and  
thus work toward the sta-.  
bility that Iraq still so  
clearly lacks.  
"This is a new birth for  
Iraq," election commission  
spokesman Farid Ayar  
said, announcing the  
results of the first free A flock of pigeons flies past the Shiite holy shrine of Imam All In Najaf, Iraq. The  
elections in Iraq in more Shiites, who suffered under Hussein's rule, gained power In the election.  
than 50 years and the first  
since Saddam fell. Iraqi  order to govern Iraq's 26  he said in a statement.  new Assembly distributed.  
voters "became a legend in  million people.  "And I congratulate every  Scats will generally be  
their confrontation with  Interim Prime Minister  candidate who stood for  allocated according to the  
terrorists."  Ayad Allawi, the secular  election and those who will  percentage of votes that  
But now they must  Shiite chosen by the United  take office once the results  each ticket won. It  
become a legend in work­ States to lead this country  are certified."  appeared only 12 coali­ 
ing to tame this country's  for the last eight turbulent  The Shiite-dominated  tions would take seats. The  
still-smoldering ethnic and  months, fared poorly-his  United Iraqi Alliance ticket  Shiites stand to gain up to  
religious tensions -and a  ticket finishing a distant  received 4,075,295 votes,  140 seats with the Kurds  
virulent insurgency that  third behind the religious  or about 48 percent of the  could end up with about  
claims American lives. One  Shiites and Kurds.  total cast. officials said.  75.  
U.S. soldier was killed  President Bush. who por­ The Kurdistan Alliance.  "This is a great victory  
Sunday in Samarra just as  trays Iraq as a test of  a coalition of two main  for the Iraqi people," said  
the results of the Jan. 30  democracy in a region not  Kurdish parties, finished  Ahmad Chalabi. a fornwr  
elections were being  known for self rule,  second with 2,175,551  J>entagon protege and  
announced.  praised Iraqis and said  votes, or 26 percent, and  member of the Shiite ticket  
The Shiites' 48 percent  America and its allies  the Iraqi List headed by  who is lobbying for the  
of the vote fell short of the  should be proud for mak­ Allawi stood third with  prime minister's post. "We  
two-thirds majority needed  ing the election possible. "I  1,168,943 votes, or nearly  will have an assembly  
to control the 275-member  congratulate the Iraqi peo­ 14 percent.  which is elected by thn  
National Assembly, mean­ ple for defying terrorist  Parties have three days  people and the government  
ing they have no choice but  threats and setting their  to lodge complaints, after  which is completely legiti­ 
to build alliances -possi­ country on the path of  which the results will be  mate and elected by the  
bly with the Kurds -in  democracy and freedom,"  certified and seats in the  people."  


Jackson's law-yers seek fair, diverse jury 
Associated Press 
SANTA MAHIA, Calif'. -Attorneys in Michael Jackson's child-molesta­tion trial are turning to the tough job of finding jurors who can judge the pop star not as a legend but as a defendant. 
Finding a jury of peers is a daunt­ing task when the defendant lives in a storybook mansion with its own amusement park. 
"If you talk about a jury of your peers, it would have to be Madonna, Liza Minnelli and maybe Elvis," said former San Francisco prosecutor and trial watcher Jim Hammer. 
"Michael looks like nobody else in the courtroom." 
Jackson is black. while the commu­nity which will supply the jury is mostly white. 
Many prospects who appeared in court two weeks ago to fill out eight­page questionnaires told the judge they were barely scraping by. 
"This would be a financial devasta­tion for me," said one 67-year-old man, explaining he couldn't aiTord to miss work for what is expected to be a six-month trial. 
On Monday, attorneys on both sides begin thinning the nearly 250 prospects who filled out detailed questionnaires to 12 jurors and eight alternates. 
Jury selection was delayed a week because of the death of Jackson attorney Thomas Mesereau Jr.'s sis­ter. 
Prosecutors and defense lawyers won't likely bother trying to find jurors who share much with Jackson, who is accused of plying a boy, then 13, with alcohol, molesting him and conspiring to hold his family captive. 
Instead. they'll look to dismiss those who are biased. 
During questioning of would-be jurors, each side has an unlimit1~d number of challenges for cause ­challenges that let them remove someone because of obvious bias. 
---------·---~--------------------­
page 6 Monday, February 14, 2005 
The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS 
Transition 
continued from page 1 
bilities." 
Baron and Shappell said while they made a point not to discuss candidates for chief executive assistant during the campaign, they each have peo­ple in mind and will begin to conduct interviews for all posi­tions. 
Besides forming a staff, Baron and Shappell must face another imminent challenge ­working out their calendar for next year before April 1. 
The two also plan to begin work on delivering their cam­paign promises, namely the Catholic Think Tank of America speaker series, the concert endowment issue and the sec­ond Board of Trustees report. 
According to Shappell, the 

"Part Two: The Solution," which will be presented to the Board this spring. 
"That's going to be a major initiative," Baron said. 
According to Shappell, cur­rent chair of the Gender Relations committee in Senate, her work on the Sexual Assault and upcoming Eating Disorder Awareness Weeks tie into this BOT report. 
"These [events] are part of the solution, and we hope to offer some continuity there," Shappell said. 
Baron also said he planned to establish a new Community Relations committee on Senate, something he considers to be important and previously over­looked. 
"This is an issue Student Government hasn't really taken up before," Baron said. He explained he wants to increase transportation for students, increase the CSC's budget. 
preparation for place community 
"Transitioning is the 
the Catholic members on 
one time experience 
Think Tank neighborhood series will begin matters most. " coalitions and get during this tran­students to sition period, "embrace South
Dave Baron

starting with Bend." 
student body 

writing letters to Baron contrast­prominent president-elect ed his and 
Catholic speak­ers. "That's something we need to get on now," Shappell said. 
Baron said they planned to have the first speaker in the series at Notre Dame before the end of the year. 
Discussing what the two termed as their most important issue -concert endowment ­Baron said, "There's been a lot of work done on the endow­ment that just needs to come together." 
Shappell said a meeting with vice president of University Relations Lou Nanni was already planned, a first step toward their goal of raising the endowment from the current $100,000 to "at least $1 mil­lion." 
Both Baron and Shappell emphasized the importance of Student Union Board in this process. 
"We realize our end of stu­dent government is not the programming end." Shappell said. 
Baron, who worked on the winter BOT report with Istvan and Bell. said he and Shappell would put a lot of work into 
Shappell's 

upcoming transi­tion with that of current presi­dent and vice president Adam Istvan and Karla Bell, who had little student government expe­rience and faced the added dif­ficulty of working with a newly­revised and not fully under­stood Constitution. 
"Transitioning is the one time experience matters most," Baron said. 
But Baron said he did not want to criticize Istvan and Bell's lack of experience. 
"I have a ton of respect for Adam and Karla because they brought a fresh perspective," Baron said. "Hopefully, we can bring a fresh perspective despite being insiders." 
Shappell said the transition would be a time to reflect on past student government actions as well as plan for the future. 
"This is our chance to see what worked, what didn't," she said. "This is where we've been and where we want to go." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 


Festival 
continued from page 1 
since Notre Dame is a Catholic university. 
Senior Lauren Galgano. co-president of Notre Dame Right to Life and writer for Advocata Nostra. expressed reservations about the Queer Film Festival because she felt the Catholic per­spective on homosexuality was not a key part of the festival's dialogue. 
"I did not feel that all viewpoints were addressed fairly," she said. 
Galgano expressed specific concerns about the panel, which addressed the future of gay marriage. 
"A man from the audience who works at the Hesburgh Library was pulled down onto the panel by the mod­erator," she said. "Without him, there would have been no balance as to the Catholic viewpoint and no counter­arguments ... [the other panelists] only focused on why it is important that [gay marriage] is recognized." 
Despite the controversy 
that arose at the panel. which was largely due to debate about Catholic repre­sentation among the speak­ers, many students respond­ed positively to the event and viewed the festival as an educational opportunity for the Notre Dame commu­nity. 
"I think that it's good for Notre Dame stude!'!ts to be exposed to different lifestyles." sophomore Casey Stanton said. "And [the Queer Film Festival! is an opportunity to see artists express themselves in cine­ma and to discuss these issues in an open forum. Members of the gay commu­nity that I know on campus all reacted to it positively, and I hope it continues." 
Many students believed the festival succeeded in increasing awareness on campus about gay and les­bian issues. 
"I think [the panel] went very well," said senior Day Zimlich, a member of AllianceND, an unrecog­nized student organization. "[D'Arcy) kind of had to make that statement ... it really didn't bother me, 
though. I think a lot of peo­ple came out in support of the gay and lesbian commu­nity here at NO, and we had a really good time." 
The three-day festival opened Thursday night with a sold-out showing of the film "Saved!," which used humor to critique animosity between gay culture and · conservative Christianity. 
A question-aiYd-answer session followed with writer/director Brian Dannelly, who was recently honored by "Out" magazine as one of the top 100 men of 2004. 
Other films featured included "In Good Conscience," a documentary about Gramick's refusal to be silenced by the Vatican for ministering to the gay and lesbian community. 
"Gay Pioneers" document­ed the early gay rights movement. The first part of the HBO series "Angels in America" and an adaptation of Terrence McNally's play "Love! Valour' Compassion!" were also shown. 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Monday, Pebruary 14, 2005 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,796.01 +46.40

}ones 
A. 

Uf>: Same: ~ Composite Volume: 2,326 143 • 1,546,447,360 
AMEX I ,49l.IO +11.10 NASDAQ 2,076.66 +23.56 NYSE 7,261.64 +50.99 S&PSOO I ,205.30 +8.29 NIKKEJ(Tokyo) II ,553.56 +80.21 
FTSE IOO(London) 5,044.20 +44.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  +0.68  +0.12  17.70  
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ)  + 1.48  +0.55  37.70  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFJ1  -0.35  -0.09  25.97  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +2.85  +0.67  24.17  
SIRIUS SATEWTE R(SIRI)  +0.84  +0.05  5.98  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.49  +0.22  44.87  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.54  +0.22  40.95  
5-YEARNOTE  + 1.34  +0.49  36.95  
3-MONTH BILL  + 1.09  +0.27  24.94  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.1 I  47.80  
GOLD ($/lroy oz.)  +3.30 422.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.30  B7.BO  
.  Excha  Rates  
YEN  105.66  
EURO  0.7772  
POUND  0.5352  
CANADIAN$  1.2379  

IN BRIEF 
Analyst pleads guilty in Hardee's case 
ST. LOUIS-A stock analyst admitted in fed­
oral court Thursday that lw threatened to 
damage the reputation and stock of the parent 
company of the Hardee's fast-food chain if the 
company didn't hire him as a consultant for 
$:{00,000. 
C. Clive Munro. 54. pleaded guilty to com­mitting intnrstatc threats. As part of a plea deal, prosecutors agreed to drop felony charges of extortion. wire fraud and securities fraud. 
Munro, arrested in October at his Cheyenne, Wyo., home. faces up to two years in prison and $250,000 in lines when sentenced May 12. 
Beginning in April 2003, Munro, an inde­pendent stock analyst, pressed CKE Hnstaurants Inc. chief executive Andy Puzder and chief financial officer Ted Abajian to hire him as a consultant for $25,000 per month for a year. /\fter he was rebuffed, Munro issued a nngativn report in /\ugust 2004 suggesting the company's "slowing growth" could lower the stock price and that investors should sell their shares. 
That caused a substantial drop in the com­pany's stock price, wiping out $160 million in markd value. The stock has sincn recovered. 
Madams make mint off prostitution 
NJ.:W YOHK -The blue blood Mayflower Madam argtwd that t.he oldest profession was lllt'rPly "naughty," not criminaL 
Mort~ than two dncades after her high-priced st~rvicu was shut down, police are cracking down on <~ now generation of' Manhattan madams who allegedly became wealthy by running prostitution rings for big spenders. /\nd likP Mayflowt~r Madam Sydney Biddle Barrows, one of' them wonders what all the fuss is about. 
"It's the oldest game in town," Julie Moya said before surrendering to a vice squad late last month. "We don't hurt anyone. We just offpr plnasure." 
/\lso last month. Jason Itzler, 27. a New .Jersey law school graduate, was arrested at a swank Manhattan hotel and charged with making a fortune by selling sex. 
GERMANY 


DaimlerChrysler earnings tumble 
Plan made to cut costs and boost revenues to improve profit margin by 2007 
Associated Press 

SINDELFINGEN -Once 
viewed as a liability, 
DaimlerChrysler AG's U.S. 
division Chrysler has taken 
the wheel from the 
automaker's former star 
Mercedes -limiting the 
damage from the luxury 
division's woes in a difficult 
fourth quarter and driving 
full-year earnings for 2004. 
The German-American automaker said Thursday that Chrysler more than doubled its fourth -quarter contribution to 386 million euros ($523 million) from 143 million euros a year ago, while earnings at Mercedes nearly evaporat­ed to just 20 million euros ($27 million) from 784 mil­lion euros. 
Overall fourth-quarter net profit at DaimlerChrysler fell 63 percent to 526 million euros ($712 million) from 
1.4 billion euros a year ago as Mercedes struggled with quality problems and a weak dollar that hurt its results in the key U.S. mar­ket. . 
The results fell short of the 686 million euro ($878 million) profit forecast of analysts polled by Dow Jones Newswil:es. 
The automaker's shares were down 1.4 percent by late afternoon in Frankfurt, trading at 35.60 euros The plan is expected to Lexus. The weak dollar has problem," Dudenhoeffer ($45.59). DaimlorChrysler's include measures to fix decreased profit margins in said. U.S.-traded shares rose 2 problems at ultra-compact the United States, Along with other ana­cents to close at $46.1 0 in maker Smart, which is part Mercedes' No. 2 market. lysts, Dudenhoeffer Thursday trading on the of Mercedes. Yet Schrempp acknowl­believes new Mercedes New York Stock Exchange. Smart loses money, edged the exchange rate models coming in the next 
Quarterly sales rose 7 though the company hasn't was not the real problem. year or two will help percent to 37.7 billion said how much. "One thing is quite clear: restore the division's luster. euros ($51 billion) from Mercedes head Eckhard even without the exchange­Still, full-year earnings 
35.2 billion euros a year Cordes said the company rate effects, the operating for 2004 rose sharply, with ago, boosted by the first­was "considering" new profit of the Mercedes Car net income of 2.5 billion time inclusion of revenue partnerships to boost Group in the third and euros ($3.3 billion), up from Japanese truck maker Smart and would not rule fourth quarters would have from 448 million euros the Mitsubishi Fuso. out job cuts at Mercedes been unacceptable," he previous year. 
DaimlerChrysler CEO either. said. The improvement was Juergen Schrempp called The dollar, which hit an Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer, driven by a strong perform­the Mercedes result "unac­all-time low against the an auto analyst at the ance by the company's ceptable" and announced a euro in December, con­Gelsenkirchen Technical commercial vehicles divi­plan to cut costs and boost tributed to Mercedes' prob­Institute, said he expected sion and by Chrysler, which revenues that he said lems, as did competition Mercedes to sort out its has bounced bank from would improve the divi­from Munich-based problems as early as 2006, losses in 2001 and 2003 sion's profit margin to 7 Bayerische Motoren Werke noting that fixing troubles with hot-selling new mod­percent by 2007. Currently AG and Toyota Motor at Smart remain key. els such as the 300 and it's 3.5 percent. Corp.'s luxury brand, "Smart is still the biggest 300C. 

Funds from operations surge at Simon 
llelped by increased rents, the $1.07 billion, or $4.04 a sharn, in
Associated Press 

widely watched funds-from-opera­2003. Excluding the chargt~. funds 
INDIANAPOLIS -Simon Property tions, or FFO, measure rose 19 per­from operations in the latest year Group Inc., the biggest shopping-mall cent to $397.6 million, or $1.36 a were $4.46 a sharn. Earnings fell to owner in the United States, posted a share, in the latest quarter, from $300.6 million, or $1.44 a sharn, lower fourth-quarter profit, although $334.8 million, or $1.26 a share, a from $313.6 million, or $1.(>:i a a key measurement of real-estate year earlier. share, in 2003. RevtHllie rose to investment trust performance Excluding a charge of 6 cents a $1.58 billion from $1.37 billion. surged. share related to a regional mall, the Analysts were looking for funds 
Net income available to common Indianapolis-based company said from operations of $4.38 a share. shareholders fell to $107.4 million, FFO amounted to $1.42 a share in with earnings of $1.65 a share, on or 49 cents a share, in the quarter, the latest period. revenue of $2.:i7 billion. from $165.4 million, or 86 cents a A survey of analysts by Thomson Looking ahead, Simon roaff1rmed share, a year earlier. First Call projected the company its 2005 guidance of $4.70 to $4.82 a 
Hevenue rose 27 percent in the lat­would generate FFO of $1.36 a share share for funds from operations, but est period to $836.1 million from in the fourth quarter. lowered its earnings guidance for the $657.4 million, helped by increases For the year, Simon reported funds year to $1.34 to $1.46 a share from a in minimum and overage rent and from operations rose 12 percent to previous estimate for earnings of tenant reimbursements. $1.2 billion, or $4.39 a share, from $1.96 to $2.08 a share. 
Monday, February 14, 2005 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
Fillll fans are still 'hitched' on Slllith 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-Will Smith usually brings audiences in at gunpoint. This time, he did it with hugs and kisses. 
Starring in his first romantic comedy, the action hero scored a No. 1 debut with "Hitch," which took in $45.3 million over Valentine's Day weekend, according to studio estimates Sunday. 
"Clearly, Will Smith is the man," said Paul Dergarabedian, president of box-office tracker Exhibitor Relations. "He can open any kind of movie. He has multi-genre appeal." 
The previous weekend's top movie, the horror tale "Boogeyman," fell to second place with $10.8 million, lifting its 10-day total to $33.3 million. 
The weekend's other new wide release, the animated fam­ily tale "Pooh's Heffalump Movie," opened at No. 5 with $6 million. 
Sony Pictures had the week­end's top three movies with "Hitch," "Boogeyman" and "Are We There Yet?", which was No. 3 at $8.5 million. 
"Hitch" stars Smith as a Manhattan "date doctor" who helps hopeless men win the hearts of their dream women but has romantic troubles when he meets his own soul mate {Eva Mendes). 
It was the fifth-straight No. 1 debut for Smith, following "Shark Tale," "I, Robot," "Bad Boys II" and "Men in Black II." Those movies all opened in the $46 million to $52 million range. 
"Will Smith certainly delivers, doesn't he?" said Rory Bruer, Sony's head of distribution. "He's one of those rare stars that just appeals to everyone, men, women and children. There's no doubt·he's somewhat of a king of action, but he is every bit as good in comedy." 
The $6 million debut for "Pooh's Heffalump Movie" was on par with distributor Disney's last Winnie the Pooh cartoon, 2003's "Piglet's Big Movie," which opened with $6.1 million, though below the debut of the Pooh adventure "The Tigger Movie," which premiered with $9.4 million in 2000. 
Disney spokesman Dennis Rice said the Pooh flicks are made cheaply enough that it will turn a solid profit once television and home-video revenues roll in. 
Three key contenders for the Feb. 27 Academy Awards remained in the top 10. The boxing drama "Million Dollar Baby" was No. 4 with $7.6 mil­lion, raising its total domestic gross to $45.1 million. 
The buddy tale "Sideways" took in $4.75 million to finish in eighth place, lifting its total to $53.1 million. The Howard Hughes epic was ninth with $4.6 million. pushing its domestic haul to $82.3 million. 
Two movies opened solidly in limited release. "Bride & Prejudice," a romance that updates Jane Austen's "Pride and Prejudice" to a modern-day Bollywood musical in India, took in $388,076 in 32 theaters. The film is directed by Gurinder Chadha ("Bend It Like Beckham"). 

Relationships 101: More students study love 
Young adults learn life lessons by enrolling in classes on dating and marriage at college 
Associated Press 
. MUNCIE, Ind. -Scott Hall wants to spark a discussion, so he asks his students something bound to provoke a reaction: Do women want more out of marriage than men? 
It's just the sort of conversa­tion starter that's heard more often in college classrooms these days. Affairs of the heart -love, relationships and mar­riage -have gone from being an obsession outside class to the reason for class. 
The students in Hall's course on marriage at Ball State University -many of them women -laugh and nod at his question. Most of them agree with research he cites stating that men are most interested in a partner who's attractive and good in bed. 
But not Mike Toscano, a 21­year-old senior: "It's not 'Oh she looks cute and she cooked a pot pie,"' he says. "I want to be held once in a ·while, too, y'all." 
The comment draws more laughter, as Toscano blushes and smiles. 
''I'm glad he feels that way," Anitra Montgomery, a 22-year­old junior, responds to the class. "But he is rare!" 
Over the last 30 years, aca­demics have been developing the study of "close relation­ships," as they call it, forming the International Association for Relationship Research to share resources and data. 
Such research is "not just about what makes people happy but how relationships can affect other things -for instance, someone's health," says Lisa Baker, an assistant professor of psychology at Purchase College. part of the State University of New York. 
In recent years, though, some professors have moved beyond theory. making the discussion more personal to students by teaching relationship skills they can use outside the classroom. 
Some call it Relationships 101 -a concept that has proven wildly popular on campuses across the countr-y. 
Toscano, the Ball State senior, says he and his girlfriend, Bethany Ringrose, decided to take the class together this term to see if they want to take their relationship to the next level. 
"It helps me understand my actions and his, too," says Ringrose, a 20-year-old junior at the school in central Indiana. 
With divorce as common as it is in this country, experts say young couples are wise to do their marriage homework. 
"The thinking is, the earlier people learn those skills, the better off they'll be," says Dennis Lowe, psychology pro­fessor at Pepperdine University in Malibu, Calif.. who team teaches a freshman seminar called "Developing Healthy Relationships" with his wife, Emily Scott-Lowe. 
Among other things, students in the Lowes' classes practice listening -namely giving the other person a chance to speak his or her mind without inter­ruption. And if students are 
· considering long-term, commit­ted relationships. they're asked to consider questions such as whose job it would be to buy a car, discipline a child or cook dinner. 
Leslie Parrot, a professor at Seattle Pacific University. says surveys at her university and others regularly show that rela­tionships are a priority for stu­dents. 
"They're often more focussed on relationship quality than their careers," says Parrott. a marriage and family therapist who teaches relationships courses with her husband, Les Parrott. 
Lecture topics include "Falling in Love Without Losing Your Mind" and "How to Break Up Without Falling Apart." The latter class includes discussion on how to end a relationship cleanly and taking time after a breakup to avoid a rebound relationship: Parrott says that session regularly draws stu­dents who aren't even enrolled in the class. 
"Breaking up is a rPal rite of passage fqr people their age ­they're just dying and they have no real guidance," says Parrott, who's co-authored a textbook on relationships with her hus­band. 
SAUDI ARABIA 

Public ntarks Valentine's Day amid restraints 
Associated Press 
RIYADH -In gift and flower shops across Saudi Arabia, the flush of red has started to fade. 
Each year shortly before Feb. 14, the country's religious police mobilize, heading out to hunt for -and confiscate -red roses, red teddy bears and any signs of a heart. In a country where Valentine's Day is banned, ordinary Saudis find they must skirt the law to spoil their sweetheart. 
The Valentine's Day holiday celebrating love and lovers is banned in Saudi Arabia, where religious authorities call it a Christian celebration true Muslims should shun. 
The kingdom's attitude toward Valentine's Day is in line with the strict school of Islam fol­lowed here for a century. All Christian and even most Muslim feasts are banned in the king­dom. the birthplace of Islam, because they are considered unorthodox creations that Islam does not sanction. 
Beyond the ban, it is a chal­lenge for unmarried couples to be together on Valentine's Day or any other day because of strict segregation of the sexes. Dating consists of long phone conversations and the rare tryst. Men and women cannot go for a drive together, have a meal or talk on· the street unless they are close relatives. Infractions are punished by detentions. 
Valentine's items descend 
We l>o Mortdays Like No Place Else! 
Enjoy a double order of chicken. s±ea or combo faji±as (enoush for ±wo) for jus± $11!* 

c 

MISIIAWAKA 4810 Grape Rd. 271-1330 


*Offer vahd every Monday 11 a.m fo dose. 
underground. to the black mar­ket. where their price triples and quadruples. Salesmen and waiters avoid wearing red. Though taboo, Valentine's Day still gets a fair amount of atten­tion in Saudi society. 
"Female voices demand the release of the red rose." read a headline in Sunday's Asharq al­Awsat. Women complained to the paper no one had the right to ban flower sales. 
Sheik Abdullah al-Dakhil, head of the religious police, known as the muttawa, in Thumama, a town outside Riyadh, told Al-Eqtisadiah newspaper that "despite aware­ness campaigns and the confis­cation of flowers, chocolate and other items, there were 15 infractions" for Valentine's Day indiscretions last year. 
In religious IPrtures at schools. teachers and adminis­trators warn students against marking the occasion. noting St. Valentine was a Christian priest. according to an educational supervisor speaking on condi­tion of anonymity. 
St. Valentine is believed to have been a 3rd-century mar­tyred Roman priest or bishop. Why the holiday became a cele­bration of lovers is unclear, but some theories say it stemmed from his Feb. 14 feast date falling close to a pagan love fes­tival or that it was because mid­February was seen in Europe as the time of year when birds start mating. 


1213 Lincolnway West-Mishawaka 
'

Corner of Logan & Lincolnway 
(574) 256-1444 
Francesco was Chef at Notre Dame for ~~ 2.5years! ~~ ~ JFJr;auntoe§<C01§ ~VdlooJnntte§ .atllll ~ 
V.cnllendne§ onm V,CJtll<eJmttliJme§ D.CJty!!

t4111'CAt4111'CAt4111'CAt4111'C 
Francesco & Family invite you to dine at their house. Enjoy authentic Italian cuisine from Calabria in an elegant yet casual atmosphere. Whether in front of the fireplace or on the veranda, we look forward to serving you and your guests. Most romantic place in South Bend and Mishawaka 
Tuesday-Thursday 

s:oo-9:oo  Full bar available  
Friday & Saturday  Free bruschetta with ad  
s:oo-10:00  FrancescoDs needs servers  


Monday, February 14, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Director revives heroine's story 
Assndated l'ress 
AU;ONQUIN. Ill. -On a wcruiting visit to a school in this Chicago suburb, Marino Staff Sgt. Jody Van Doorenmaalen asknd a sophomore what popped into his parents' heads wlwn thny thought about him joining the Marines. 
"Th!) only thing they think (is) I'm going to go to war and die," 16-yoar-old Nick Ambroziak replied. 
The exchange illustrates the difficulty these days for rneruiters like Van Doorcnmaal!m as they visit high sehools. eommunity colleges and shopping malls trying to sell the Marine Corps to young people while the eountry is at war in Iraq. 
Earlier this month. the Marine Corps announeed it had fallen short of its monthly reeruiting goal in January for the first time in nearly a decade. While the Marines say they remain on 

Marine recruiting dips follovving vvar in Iraq 
track to meet their recruiting target for the year, they also acknowledge their task is harder because of the war and its mounting death toll from road­side bombings, helicopter crash­es and suicide attacks. 
''I'd say it has made it more ehallenging on a number of fronts," said Capt. Timothy O'H.ourke, executive officer of the Marine Recruiting Station Chicago. 
One of the first students to stop at his information table in the cafeteria at Algonquin's Harry D. Jacobs lligh School was Jeff Gold, an 18-year-old senior. 
With his military-style haircut and dream of becoming a police offieer, Gold would seem the ideal candidate. But Gold is pret­ty sure what would happen if he did join. 
"I probably will get deployed," he said after talking to Van Doorenmaalen. "And I'll proba­bly die." 
Are you creative? 
Do you have a short story, poem, drawing or photo? Submit your work to the Spring issue of 
The Juggler 
NO's student literary, art and design magazine. 
Please bring artwork to Mary Foster in 206 Riley by March 28. Supply slides for pieces larger than 11 x17 or 3-D work. 
Written work deadline is March 21. Send via e-mail to juggler@nd.edu or dropped off in the box outside the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall. No entries of more than 2,600 words, please. 
All submissions should include title, authorfartist, and e-mail. 
Look for the Winter Juggler later this month! 
GERMANY 
Associated Press 
BEHLIN -A German movie about an iconie anti-Nazi resist­anee heroine premiered Sunday at the Berlin Film Festival, tak­ing viewers through the person­al drama of Sophie Seholl's arrest, interrogation and execu­tion. 
"Sophie Scholl -The Final Days" draws on preserved tran­scripts of Gestapo interrogations and Scholl's show trial to paint an intense portrait of the six days from her arrest with her brother Hans to their beheading · on Feb. 22, 1943. 
"What was important to me was to connect the viewer emo­tionally to one figure, so that he can identify with her as deeply as possible and ask himself again and again, 'What would I have done?'" said Marc Rothemund, the lilm's German director. 
Scholl and other members of the White Hose resistance group started distributing anti-Nazi leaflets in the summer of 1942. The Seholls were arrested as they dropped a leaflet at Munieh's university that called for a "day of reckoning" with the "abhorrent tyranny" of Adolf Hitler after Nazi Germany's military defeat at Stalingrad. 
Hothemund said the film ­one of three German entries for the festival's top prize -was timely as the nation grapples with an increasingly bold far right. 
"We must somehow keep alive the ideas of the Sehulls," he told reporters. "I have a feeling of responsibility to keep their lega­cy going." 
The Scholls' role as leading lights of the small anti-Nazi resistance made them icons in post-war Germany, and their name was given to streets and schools across the country. 
German actress Julia Jentsch. 26, plays Sophie Scholl, who faces a Gestapo officer played by Alexander Held. Jentsch said the challenge was to get inside the emotions of the 21-year-old woman behind the legend. 
'This iconic image was what I wanted to avoid." she said. "I tried not to think about it." 
The film shows Scholl moving 

from denial, through a confes­
sion in which she does all she 
can to protect lwr fellow con­
spirators. to her defiant appcar­
anee at the show trial. 
Hothemund and seript writer 

Fred Breinersdorfer workt•d with a surviving sister of Scholl. Gestapo intorrogator Hobert Mohr's sun and others to ensure . the historical autlwnticity of the film. which was inspired by the director's discovery that the 60­
page Gestapo transeript had 
been preserved in the archive of 
communist East Germany's 
secret poliee. 
"It had an incredible efiect on 

me -it had such drama," 
Rothemund said. 
Hothemund said there were 

good political reasons to drama­
tize Scholl's story and bring it to 
young people now. 
Germany is debating how to 

tackle the far-right National 
Democratic Party. which gained 
seats last year in an east 
German state legislature and 
provoked outrage last month 
with a walkout from a tribute to 
Holoeaust victims. 



Politicians, professors duke it out 
Battle over academic freedom heats up in post Sept. 11 America 
circlek@nd.edu www.nd.edu/-circlek AIM: NotreDameCK




CIRCLE K 
Looking for a way to do service? We make it easy ... 
SUNDAY  MONDAY  TUESDAY  WEDNESDAY  THURSDAY  FRIDAY  
Milton  Children Here*  Children Here*  Children Here*  Children Here*  Food Bank  
Home  3:00-6:00  3:30-6:00  3:30-6:00  3:30-6:30  12:35-3:15  
1:15-3:15  YMCA Tutoring  Ark Angels  YMCA Tutoring  Manicures at Milton  Humane Society  
YMCA  3:10-5:00  3:35-5:45  3:10-5:00  3:15-5:00  3:20-5:50  
Open Gym  Ark Angels  Center for the  Ark Angels  Ark Angels  Children Here*  
6:40-9:10  3:35-5:45  Homeless  3:35-5:45  3:35-5:45  3:30-6:00  
Nursing Home  3:40-6:20  Nursing Home  JJC  Ark Angels  
GENERAL '  Bingo  Humane Society  Bingo  5:50-8:15  3:35-5:45  
MEETING  6:10-8:15  3:40-6:15  6:10-8:15  Knitting in Farley's  Logan Bowling  
5 p.m.  Letters to Troops"  JJC  Basement  3:35-5:50  
Library  8:00-10:00  5:50-8:15  10:00-12:00am  
Auditorium  

• meets by Zahm mailboxes 
Projects leave from Library Circle at the time listed. 1\ meets in Farley's basement Pick up at Main Circle is l 0 minutes after the posted time. 
NEW MEMBERS ALWAYS WELCOME! 
• 
No commitment Email: circlek@nd.edu for more information 

• 
Free transportation 


• 
Signs off on Res Life hours 

• 
Fits every schedule Come to our meetings: Sunday 5pm Library 


Associated Press 
DENVEH-Academic freedom has never completely protected professors who make unpopular statements. One was fired in 1960 for suggesting that pre­marital sex among students could be a good thing. Three decades later, a department chair was demoted for saying a Jewish conspiracy denigrated blacks in the movies. 
Now experts say the Sept. 11 attacks have put new fire in the battle over just where academic freedom ends and miseonduct­or even treason-begins. 
University of Colorado profes­sor Ward Churchill could be fired pending an investigation prompted by his 2001 essay sug­gesting some World Trade Center victims were toiling away like efficient Nazi bureaucrats. 
There are no exact ligures on attempts to fire or diseipline pro­fessors since Sept. 11, but experts say they have probably increased. The fight is especially fierce at state universities. where some question whether taxpayers must pay the salaries of professors they find unpatriot­ic or outrageous. 
"We have never been free of the issue of professors coming under intense scrutiny or attack for having written something somebody finds utterly loath­some," said Jonathan Knight of the American Assoeiation of University Professors in Washington. 
Knight said firings are rela­tively rare, with 50 or 60 losing their jobs each year for a variety of reasons out of some 800,000 tenured and untenured profes­sors nationwide. Tenure. a pro­tection normally granted after several years of probation. is designed to allow teaching and research without (()ar of political reprisals. 
Overall, challenges to American professors today are mild compared with the attacks academics suffered during the anti-communist investigations spurred by Sen. Joseph McCarthy in the 1950s, said Hobert O'Neil. direetor of the Thomas Jefl'erson Center for the Protection of Free Expression in Charlottesville, Va. 
But, Knight said. the intensity of attacks on academic frn(~dom have increased since the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Churchill's case has ignited furious debate with no shortage of students and teachers defend­ing his right to speak, even though few have endorsed his comments. 
His essay said some of the trade center vietims were "little Eichmanns," a suggestion that white-eollar "technocrats" who died that day were no b(~tter than llolocaust organizer Adolf' Eichmann because tlwy are fur­thering U.S. policies harmful l(\ Arabs and indigenous people worldwide. 
It drew little attention until last month, when Churehill was invited to speak at llamilton College in upstate New York. Helatives of the Trade Center dead and the governors of New York and Colorado denounced Churchill. and Churchill's speech was caneeled because of dPath threats against him. 
Since then, other Churchill speeches around the nation have been canceled and the IIamilton professor who invit<HI him t.o that campus has steppnd down as program dirnctor, f(~d up with tlw "political and nwd ia fight that the rurn~nt rlimal(' n~quin•s." 
THE 0HSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 
Monday, February 14, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Will you be my Valentine? 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame,lN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHUlF Matt Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CoNTROlLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.!@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OnsERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent; daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universiry ofNorre Dame du Lie and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofdther institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majoriry ofrhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerters to rhe Ediror muse be signed and must include concact information. 
Questions regarding Obruuerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Matt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The: C>m<:rw (USPS 599 l.(QO(J} is pub~ .~nday 1hrough Friday m.:ep1 ..turing o;aru .rnd v..u:ation pd"ioili. A.n~b.cripciQn ro The Obse!'Ytr is $100 for 011e a-.:lidctnic ~u;S55fotoneaC'nJCiitct. 
1bc Ohl<:rva i' publi.t:hed u: POSTMASTER 
024 Sourb Dining Hall Send aJdn.'lls corteetion• to; 
Nouc O.•.mc,IN 46)56.()179 ThcOb~rver 
Pttiodi~ ~ugc paid ar Noue Dame r.o. Box779 
and addinonal mailing offille". 024 South Dining HaJJ 
Notre Dame, IN 46.556..07?9 
The Obt.~vo:r ic a mclnber of the: &wciOJ.red P~lli. All rqnodu.:tlon righ.n arc ~·d. 
Pink roses, red boxes of chocolate, love letters, heart-shaped balloons, Vagina Monologues-Valentine's Day alone is reason enough why America is not yet ready for a female President. This holi­day, which, despite Joey Falco popular belief, was actually started in Forty Ounces to the early 17th centu­Falco ry by the horny wives of Puritans who wanted extra attention from their sex-fearing hus­bands, has been a thorn in the side of men ever since. Today, this unfortu­nate instance of the deceitful manipu­lation of powerless males at the hands of their far more attractive counter­parts has resulted in a day in which over one billion Valentine cards are sent each year. and when even cold­hearted misanthropes like me are often guilted into dishing out a few tokens of love and affection. 
The situation has gotten so out of hand lately that I actually wanted to send everyone in the world one of my personalized Harry Potter valentines, many of which offer witty and heart­felt messages like "Have a spellbind­ing Valentine's Day" and "We have a magical friendship." Unfortunately, those are only for girls that I like as friends and/or have secret crushes on. so instead I'm using this space to offer my collective Valentine to the people whom I felt would be looking into their homemade Valentine's boxes after recess this afternoon and would not see the cornucopia of candy mes­sage hearts and X-Men cards that probably stuffed many of your own boxes. So without further ado, I would like to wish a joyful and loving Valentine's Day to the following neg­lected people, places and things. 
Spongebob Squarepants: as if living in a pineapple under the sea was not difficult enough, everyone's favorite cartoon is now receiving the Clay 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Aiken treatment from a few Southern religious leaders. Yes, aside from being "absorbent," "yellow" and "porous," Mr. Squarepants can also add "f1aming homosexual" to his lengthy resume of character adjec­tives. Now, since I do consider myself a very accepting and tolerant person, I certainly will not judge an innocent sponge simply because he decides to fill his pores with something other than seawater. So have a happy Valentine's Day, Spongebob, because you are and always will be fine by me. 
The Male Package: after suffering vituperative bashings in The Observer from a few pretend Keenan Revue haters last week, this oft-forgotten member of the student body (pun so obviously intended) now also has to compete fiercely with its female rival thanks to a'n entire series of mono­logues devoted exclusively to it. Couple that with the expectations of spiritual abstinence associated with the Lenten season, and these little guys are really getting the shaft (oh, the puns just keep coming). Be sure to wish them a happy Valentine's Day. 
Fat Guy Who Lip-Synchs to the Romanian Techno Song at his Computer: all of America has had the chance to laugh hysterically at the lip­synching of this unbelievably pathetic human being, so I'm pretty sure this guy could use all of the Valentine's love he can possibly get. 
Ashlee Simpson: all of America has had the chance to laugh hysterically at the lip-synching of this unbeliev­ably pathetic human being, so I'm pretty sure this girl could use all of the Valentine's love she can possibly get. 
Geraldine Ferraro: now, you might be wondering why there would be any reason in the world to wish a happy Valentine's Day to the unsuccessful female running mate of Walter Mondale in 1984. Well, the vote totals from the recent student body elections on campus have shown, quite resoundingly in fact, that including a hot female vice presidential candidate on your ticket is a surefire way to boost your vote total. (Just ask Dave Baron and James Leito.) Mondale, however, suffered one of the worst defeats in U.S. history, thereby prov­ing my theory that Ferraro is an ugly. ugly human being. llappy Valentine's Day. Gerl 
Virginian Butt Cleavage: in case any 
·residents of the Old Dominion State haven't heard, the state House of Delegates recently passed legislation that levies a $50 fine on people wear­ing pants that sag so low that their underwear is revealed "in a lewd or indecent manner." Strangely enough, though, the only people benefiting from this absolutely absurd law are the police officers who get to walk around checking out every butt in Virginia in the hopes of finding a rogue thong strap and getting to grab it as evidence. (Yet another one of those strangely coincidental ironies to social conservatism that convinces me that "born-again Christian" is just a code word for "convicted sex offend­er.") So happy Valentine's Day, Virginian butt cleavage -your pres­ence will be greatly missed. 
As you can see. no matter how mis­erable and depressing your day of love might be, you can at least find solace in the fact that there is always someone else out there with an even emptier box of Valentines. 
Actually, I heard he got a coaching job at Washington. 
Joey Falco is a sophomore American Studies major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be reached at jfalco@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
-'(OU WEEP, PIGG'r' CORP!! 'Nil YOU GOT YOUR OFFSHORE 
you Gaf YOUR TAX BREAKS •.•. HAVENS SFr UP 1!!! 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Kate Antonacci Justin Schuver Katie Perry Ken Fowler Do the Vagina Monologues 
Tricia DeGroot Kate Seryak 
belong at Notre Dame? 
Viewpoint Scene Justin Spack Becca Saunders Graphics Illustrator 


Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at

Desiree Zamora Meg Dwyer 

www.ndsmcobserver. com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"If I can stop one heart from breaking, I shall not live in vain. " 
Emily Dickenson poet 

THE 0HSERVER 







IEWPOINT
Monday, February 14, 2005 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Don't justify fanfiction 
I'll admit that I have erred in the past regarding which Observer columns I'm supposed to lind funny (that Gary Caruso guy is hilari­ous!), but Lance Gallop's recent "Copyright in a free society" had to be a joke. Come on, Lance. That you even know anything about the phenomenon suggests you have at least limited exposure to the kinds of p11ople who write fanfiction. They are anything but cru­saders lighting a losing battle against the copyright juggernaut. 
Fanliction is a symptom of a society violently ill with its own con­formity. Afraid to find their own voices as writers, teenagers and young adults latch on to their favorite works in the most superficial manner possible, copying plots, modifying characters and of course, using the work of others to fulfill their particular teenage fantasies. Inserting yourself into your favorite literary work or movie is one of the more perverse forms of wish-fulfillment I've come across. Almost universally, fanfiction is written by teenagers, often socially outcast, who have been denied every outlet for their thoughts and can only express themselves in a parasitic relation­ship with something that is considered "acceptable" creativity. Lauding these people as heroes is justifying their sorry situation as sum~ring for a cause. 
The people who write fanliction do so not out of a desire to rein­terpret the work of others to their culture, but rather to suit their own personal insecurities. Teen angst is nothing new, but at least our parents didn't steal mediocre band lyrics and post them on their Livejournals. Fan fiction is proof the old adage about there being no new ideas is only correct if you don't consider Dorothy (;ale being a lesbian werewolf in school with Harry Potter and l.1~golas a new idea. And people wonder why Anne Hice isn't big on this stuff. 
There is a diiTercnce between reference and outright theft. If you want to reinterpret the symbols and ideas of your culture, you have to try a little bit. By the way: "The Wizard of Oz" entered the public domain in 1956. Much of the work created based on it was approved under copyright. 
Peter Scott sen tor Carroll Hall Feb. II 

Clarifying acadetnic freedotn 
Bishop John D'Arcy has written about Notre Dame's "Queer Film Festival" in the public press as follows: 
"This presentation is an abuse of academ­ic freedom. Pope John Paul II makes clear the place of academic freedom, when he says it must always be linked to certain values central to a Catholic university: A Catholic university possesses the auton­omy necessary to develop its distinctive identity and pur­sue its proper mission." 
D'Arcy's comments illus­trate a common tendency of conservative Catholics, many on campus and in high places, to confuse free­dom of religion and aca­demic freedom. 
Conservative Catholics often challenge the condi­tions under which scholarship and artistic expression thrive and flourish by appealing to authority (e.g., JP II). The Constitution protects their right to do this. My sense is no law can require that such challenges be consis­tent or that they meet any other criterion of rational discourse. 
The bishop, however, has chosen to challenge the University, or at least six departments of the University, as violating the rights of the Church and, by extension, of parents who expect their students to be protected from challenges to ortho­doxy, on purely sectarian or parochial grounds: papal authority and the Catholic Catechism as he, bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend, interprets 
them. "Academic freedom," however, is a term whose meaning has been settled by appropriately aca­demic means. It is clearly not a term whose meaning is open to manipulation by political or religious authorities. If the University or the bishop were to require six of its departments to present topics challenging Catholic Orthodoxy in a specif­ic format intended to protect or defend religious ortho­
doxy, the academy would have no difficulty recogniz­ing that as a violation of the academic freedom of the departments and individu­als involved. 
The bishop muddies the waters of' intelligent public discussion of the relation­

ship between the Church and Catholic universities in the United States by confusing "freedom of religion" with "aea­
demic freedom." The liberties involved are always in active ten­sion with each other and will always 
be so unless Churches were to be required to restrain their teaching by the "requirements of reason alone." The assumption that this tension can or should 
be overcome by authoritative fiat L<> at odds with 
my reading of the Gospel. 
Ed Manier professor Philosophy dep:mment Feb. II 

Club used to promote views 
Critics of abortion come in many forms. We are straight. gay, Democral'i, Hepublicans, male, female. Wn are pro-life for one simple reason: we believe in the sanctity of human life at all stages, from concep­tion until natural death. In the end, that is the sole criterion for dndaring oneself to be pro-life; being pro-life neither requires nor implies anything els1~. 
Wn were shocked and appalled J.'r·iday morning when a disturbing ~~-mail was sent through the pro­lili! list.•mrv to all members of llw campus Hight to Life club. In it, the president of the club copil~d Bishop John D'Arcy's h~twr condemning the Queer Film Festival and mentionml there would be a panel regarding gay marriage Friday aft11r­noon. Slw went on to encourage all pro-lifers "to attend, so as to have a noticeable presence of opposition" and to give "eold starns in lieu of applause." Now certainly this student has a right to hold her own views on the issue, but it was completP!y and unequivocal­ly wrong of her to usc Hight to IJfe lo promow her own personal agen­da. 
According to the ND Right to !Jfe Web siln. the purpose of the organization is "to pro­mote and uphold the sanctity of all human life from conception to natural death," and their focus "is on issues [sic] such as abortion, euthanasia and the death penalty." Those are the reasons we are a part of Hight to Life. Ilowev.er, being part of this group in no way implies we are opposed to gay marriage. It is wrong to use a very necessary and important organ­ization such as Hight to !Jfe to promote one's person­al agenda. 
It would be wonderful if more opponents of gay marriage would come to panel discussions such as the one Friday. Without dissenting opinions, no real discussion ensues. But the e-mail sent to the Hight to Life club did not even encourage intelligent discus­sion. Hather, when talking about Sister Jeannine Gramick, a nun who has devoted her life's work to creating a more welcoming atmosphere for gay and lesbian Catholics in the Church, the e-mail suggested 
we ask such questions as "Did you know the Pope banned you from giving this talk?" Questions simply attacking the speaker do not accomplish anything whatso­ever; conversely, they undermine the credibility of the person ask­ing the question. (Incidentally, that question contains a false­hood; Gramick was barred 
from pastoral work involv­ing homosexual persons, which, according to 
Cardinal Ratzinger, refers to holding retreats for gay and lesbian persons. This does not include speaking and writing.) 
The recent e-mail sent to the Hight to Life lislc;erv is one of many occurrences on 
this campus that have con­tributed to the stereotype of Notre Dame as being a homo" 
geneous and intolerant institu­tion. We are angry about more than just this one e-mail. We arc upset and saddened an atmosphere of closed-mindedness is so pervasive on this campus that we love. 
If the president of Right to Life wishes to oppose gay marriage, that is her right. We just ask that she respects our rights to our own opinions as well and does not subject us to her hateful rhetoric. 
Andrew Magee Sara Urben Andrew Robertss juniors Joseph Tan Mike Adams 
senjors ND Right ro Life Members Feb. 13 



Stay consistent with criticisms 
Writing in the Feb. 10 issue of the South Bend Tribune, Bishop John D'Arcy objects to the University of Notre Dame's "Queer Film Festival." Bishop D'Arcy complains that presenters at the symposium "have a history of ... openly opposing church teach­ing" about the morality of homosexual acts. He further claims because the seminar does not include presentation of Catholic teaching on the issue of homosexuality, the rights of the Catholic Church are violated and the rights of parents of Notre Dame stu­dents who find the seminar offense are violated as well (he does not mention the rights of Notre Dame students themselves­perhaps he doesn't think students have relevant rights?). 
As the bishop is surely aware, Notre Dame hosts a wide variety of seminars, workshops and speaker series each year. Many. though not all, of these events are devoted to topics on which the church has a specific position. Some events focus exclusively on Catholic teachings. Others include Catholic teaching in dialogue with other views. And still other evenlc; do not include any pres­entation of church teaching. Events of all of these kinds are well advertised, attended by those interested in the topics and con­tribute to the diversity of intellectual discussion on campus. 
Why does Bishop D'Arcy not speak out about any of the dozens and dozens of other events each year which do not presPnt the teaching of the church? Why does he not speak out against other events featuring speakers who openly oppose various church teachings? My own department sponsors a variety of events con­cerning matters about which the church has an otncial position. including a variety of topics in ethics, issues concerning the metaphysics of the human person and various topics in philo­sophical theology. At many of these events, church teaching is not a part of the event and, furthermore, featured speakers present viewpoints in sharp opposition to church teachings. We certainly do not require that church teaching be presented at every event. Do these events violate the rights of the church and parents of students? Do they constitute a.n abuse of academic freedom? Where is the outrage of the bishop? One can only wonder why the bishop is silent about these matters except when homosexu­ality is a topic. Perhaps the bishop thinks the issue of the morali­ty of homosexual conduct is centrally important to his church in a way that, for example, life and death decision making, justice, salvation and the nature of Christ are not? 
Ted A. Warfield associate professor Philosophy department Feb. II 



THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 12 
Monday, February 14, 2005 
The 2005 Notre Dame Lit 
Mlck Foley began as a hugely popular professional wrestler and In time became a widely read author of of children's books. His autobiography was a bestseller In 1999. 
By CHRISTIE BOLSEN Assistant Scene Editor 
What do a Notre Dame professor, two for­mer Manhattan nannies and a pro wrestler turned ehildren's book author have in com­mon? 
They all took the road less traveled by ­and that has made all the difference. 
The "Road Less Traveled" theme of the 2005 Notre Dame Literary Festival, formerly the Sophomore Literary Festival, denotes the common thread among the featured authors that have all found literary suecess, yet through completely different methods. Co-chair of this year's festival Mark Connolly sees the theme as a means of reaching out to potential authors. 
"In going along with the theme, I believe that through their talks and workshops, the speakers can convey to students the fact that if they truly have a desire to be in the literary world then such a goal stands as very feasible," Connolly said. "In addition, we have chosen authors that are very recog­nizable to the Notre Dame community such as Ralph Mcinerny and Todd Tucker as well as figures that are recognizable on a more national-stage such as Mick Foley, Emma McLaughlin and Nicola Kraus." 
The festival kicked off Thursday with up­and-coming piano player Rob Gonzales, who has been described as "the next Billy Joel." There was a workshop that gave partici­pants the opportunity to look into the mind of a professional songwriter and provided a crash course in catchy song writing. Gonzales then gave a concert Thursday night, with a cafe-like atmosphere and gourmet cheesecake for audience members. Both events were extremely successful in terms of student response and turnout, starting the festival on a positive note. 
"lThe workshop] gave everyone a great glimpse into his life as a musician and the songwriting process," co-chair Steve Tortorello said. "The concert was fantastic. The ·LaFortune Ballroom was packed, and the audience enjoyed a cozy atmosphere.... Hob played songs from his new album for roughly an hour and 45 minutes and ended his encore by asking for requests. An audi­ence member shouted out 'Piano Man' and Hob was quick to oblige, getting the entire audience to sing along with the chorus as he serenaded everyone with the classic Billy Joel tune." 
The writing workshops begin today with a Mystery Writing Workshop lead by Mcinerny from 3-4:30 p.m. in the McNeill Room in LaFortune. Mcinerny, who has been a pro­fessor at Notre Dame since 1955, has not only written dozens of scholarly books on subjects like St. Thomas Aquinas, but also has written over 50 novels. His "Notre Dame Mysteries" series and "Fr. Dowling" myster­ies are among his most popular works. He will bring plenty of expertise to the work-· shop. Those interested in learning how to craft a mystery novel will be able to look into the mechanics of the mysterious. Sign­ups for this event and others throughout the week are located in the student government office on the second noor of LaFortune in room 203. 
At 7:30 p.m. tonight in the Oak Hoom 
· above South Dining llall, Todd Tucker will give a presentation followed by a reception, which are both open to Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students, as well as the general public. The Notre Dame alum­nus graduated in 1990 with a degree in his­tory and entered the Navy's nuclear propul­sion program and completed six patrols on the USS Alabama. Although his travel writ­ing has been published in several national magazines, his two books, "Notre Dame Game Day" and "Notre Dame vs. the Klan: How the Fighting Irish Defeated the Ku Klux Klan," deal directly with the Notre Dame community. "Notre Dame vs. the Klan" took the true story of Notre Dame students and turned it into literary achievement. In 1924, Notre Dame students violently collided with mem­bers of the KKK right here in South Bend. The presentation's focus on "Notre Dame vs. the Klan" should appeal not only to people interested in literature, but also those who have a mind for history, psychology, sociolo­gy or Catholicism, since the book covers the history and evolution of both Notre Dame as well as the KKK. Tucker will also incorpo­rate images of the two institutions into his presentation as he takes the audience through each of the events that preceded the momentous night his book focuses on. "You get to see inside the workings of Notre Dame, inside the workings of the KKK ... it will be a complete experience for any­body interested in the range of subjects," Tortorello said. Tuesday's events run from 3-4:30 p.m. in the McNeill Hoom with an Author's Panel featuring Mcinerny and James C. Martin. The panel, which is also open to the general public, will highlight the completely differ-
Photo courtesy of www.boo Nicola Kraus, left, and Emma Mclaughlin, authored the bestseller "The Nann) while attending New York University and working as actual nannies to affluent fa 
ent experiences of the two writers, following the theme of the week. As a professor, Mcinerny traveled on a path to publication that was divergent from Martin '5, who began as an English teacher. He wanted to be a screenwriter before writing the novel "Push Not the River," a book he based on the diary he stumbled upon of Polish count­ess Anna Berezowska. 
Martin faced disinterest from the publish­ing community for several years before self­publishing in 2001 and marketing the proj­ect himself. Only a year later, St. Martin's Press bought his book and released a hard­cover edition in 2003. Polish and German rights sold almost immediately, and Martin recently completed the sequel, which will be released later this year. The panel will emphasize how Mcinerny, who has pub­lished numerous books, differs from the struggles of a former English teacher. The panel is for anyone who wishes to break into publishing. 
·"It's going to give students the chance to see the side of the publishing world that you wouldn't get to see from talking to a teacher," Tortorello said. 
Tuesday's night event starts at 7:30 p.m. 
in Washington Hall with Emma IV and Nicola Kraus, the former 1\ nannies who famously wrote the Times No. 1 bestseller "The Nann' The hysterically funny book too" authors' life experiences, gained ' were students at New York Univ1 turned them into a revealing gli the lifestyles of the affluent who t the time or desire to raise their The book was released in 2002 an tireless speculation in gossip colm which real-life dysfunctional fa1 book satirized. The authors have on CNN, "The Today Show," "Ente Tonight," MSNBC and "The View,~ newest collaboration is a book o vein, "Citizen Girl." This most re into satire focuses on women in t world. 
McLaughlin and Kraus will give tation followed by a reception, oi general public. The event js stru take a fun look into yet another b1 for writers, who wrote as a team have a perspective that you n expect. The authors will discuss "1 Diaries" and their new book. 
courtesy 

Professor Ralph Mcinerny has been a professor at Notre Dame since the Catholic lay journal "Crisis" and authored over 50 novels and over 14 cr.l'li'lnl:o:al 




THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Monday, Pebruary 14, 2005 
rary Festival 
Less Traveled" and highlights the varied ways uriting 

Photo courtesy of www.toddtuckerbooks.com 
Todd Tucker graduated from Notre Dame In 1990 and wrote "Notre Dame vs. The Klan: How the Fighting Irish Defeated the Ku Klux Klan" based on real events In 1924. 

Jloly Cross eommunities. Tlw presentation. follownd by a rncnption, will dnpiet for the audinnen yet another road in literature ­ono that Jed Foley to tho top of Tho New York Tinws bHstsollnrs list. 
"Jln will talk about how he went from wrestling to writing," Tortorello said. "llow onn thing led to another, and all his differ­ent nxpnriflnens in his life have led to his writing eareer. Pretty mueh what everybody all wnok will bo talking about is how their different 'roads' led them to where they 
arn." 
The Student Union Board is the sponsor and organizer of the annual NI>LF, which in its 3Sth year has its roots as a student-run 
Photo courtesy 
James C. Martin fought for the publishing of his novel "Push Not a River." 
festival. The annual event is organized under the direction of the Student Activities Office and always has encouraged close interaction between students and authors despite other changes over the years. 
"I believe the Literary Festival to be important as an enduring event for the Notre Dame community," Connolly said. "In its 38th year the festival has maintained its prestige and ability to attract exceptional talent." 
Contact Christie Boisen at christie.b.bolsen.l @nd.edu 
page 13 


NDLF 2005 
Schedule of Events 
Monday, Feb. 14 
Mystery Writing Workshop With PROFESSOR RALPH MCINERNY* 
3-4:30 p.m. McNeill Room in the LaFortune Student Center 

A Presentation by TODD TUCKER, author of .. Notre Dame vs. The Klan: How the Fighting Irish Defeated the Ku Klux Klan" 
7:30p.m. Oak Room above South Dining Hall A reception will follow. 


Tuesday,Feb.15 
Authors Panel with RALPH MCINERNY and JAMES C. MARTIN* 
3-4:30 p.m. McNeill Room in the LaFortune Student Center 

An Evening with EMMA McLAUGHLIN and NICOLA KRAUS, the au.thors of .. The Nanny Diaries .. 
7:30p.m. Washington Hall 


VVednesday, Feb.16 
ND UNPLUGGED A night of original student performances 
7-10 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 


Thursday, Feb. 17 
Children's Literature Writing Workshop with MICK FOLEY 
4-5:30 p.m. McNeill Room in the LaFortune Student Center 

An Evening with MICK FOLEY** Pro-wrestler turned author 
8p.m. Washington Hall 
This event is open to ND/SMC/HCC students and faculty/staff only. Must pres­ent a valid ND/SMC/HCC student 10 upon entrance to the event. 
* Open to all ND/SMC/HCC students and 
faculty/staff. Space is limited. Sign-ups are located in the Student Government office (203 LaFortune). 
l>iarios." tho two ril«l tlwy rsily, and rpso into on' t havn kids. sparknd ns about ilios tlw ll(l(l!Hlr«ld rtai nnwnt and tlwir 
a JII'OS!Hl­011 to tlw 1·tur«ld to kground so tlwy ight not lw Nanny 
Nil Unplugged will be the next event on Wndnnsday from 7-10 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. It will feature pnrf'ormances of original studnnt work, ineluding mono­logues, eomedy, music, poetry and spoken word craftnd by students thnmselves. One p«lrson will tlVtln read a chapter of a novel. Tlwrn will be Starbueks and artwork, giving ND Unplugged a caf~S ambiance like (;onzalns' concert. 
Sophomore Andrew Stapleton will be play­ing a mix of covnrs and original songs on his acoustic guitar. lie's played at Acousticafn in tlw LaFortunn basement and at Legends bef'orn, but is oxpeeting a difTorent type of' «wtmt with ND Unplugged. 
''I'm looking forward to following some funky groove poetry, or anything that might givn sorneorw tho urge to throw on a beret and grow a goatee," Stapleton said. 
Thursday is tho last day of tho festival and optHlS in tho McNeill Hoom from 4-5:30 p.m. with a Childrnn's Litnrature Writing Workshop led by Mick Folny. Foley began with a focused wrestling earner that took him around thn world in ICJS5. II!l achieved national fame in the lato 1990s with tho World Wrnstling Federation when he was a thrmHirnn world champion and multiple tag toam champion. llis autobiography leaped to No. I on The New York Times bestsnllor list, and his snqwd dnhuted at No. 1 as well. All of his childrpn's books and his novo! wPnl national bPsts!dlers as well. 
"Tiw workshop will be focusing on how to writn a childr!ln's hook, how to r.reate char­ar.tnrs pnopln likP, and how to write it in a way that children and adults will both like," TortorPIto said. 
Tlw workshop is open only to Notre Dame students. Foloy's prosentation at S p.m. on Thursday in Washington llall will bo opon only to tlw Notro Damn, Saint Mar·y's and 

r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 
page 14 Monday, February 14, 2005
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 


North Carolina tops UConn, Duke falls to Maryland 
Oregon State crushes Washington in a shocking upset Sunday 
get right into their offense," Maryland in front of a: fervent,
Associated Press 
said Williams, who didn't prac­hostile crowd. 
HARTFORD, Conn. tice much during the week In overtime, however, the Minutes after their latest win, because of strep throat. seventh-ranked Blue Devils the North Carolina Tar Heels "Playing Felton the whole game were worn out -and nearly · were still talking about their and pushing the ball took a lot out of players. last loss. out of me. I'm tired." Travis Garrison had 17 points 
Rashad McCants and Connecticut led 34-31 after a and 11 rebounds, and the Raymond Felton had big sec­first half that was played at the Terrapins pulled away for a ond halves Sunday to help No. pace the Huskies were looking victory Saturday night. 2 North Carolina beat No. 19 for. The second half was more Including their win in the finals Connecticut 77-70. to the liking of the Tar Heels, of the Atlantic Coast 
That was the Tar Heels' first who lead the nation in scoring Conference tournament last game since Wednesday night's at 91.2 points per game. March, the Terps have won 71-70 loss at No.7 Duke, a Felton hit a 3-pointer with three straight against Duke for game that ended with North 12:10 left to break the game's the first time since 1982. Carolina failing to get off a shot final tie and give North "I think it's great. You realize on its last possession. Carolina a 51-48 lead. That the games were close, so you 
"Needless to say we feel a started a 16-6 run that was don't gloat," Maryland coach heck of a lot better than we did capped with McCants' only 3 of Gary Williams said. "You just Wednesday night," North the game that made it 64-54 feel good because you beat a Carolina coach Roy Williams with 7:54 to go. great program and a great said. "I talked a great deal McCants started the game by coach." about getting that bad taste out missing seven of his first nine John Gilchrist scored 19 of my mouth. We did some nice shots, but the 3 capped a run points, Chris McCray had 17 things today." where he made four of six and reserve guard Mike Jones 
Like take over in the second shots from the field and scored added 15 for Maryland (15-7, half on both ends of the court. nine points in as many min­6-5 ACC). which completed its 
McCants had 11 of his 15 utes. first regular-season sweep of points in the second half for When Connecticut closed the Blue Devils since 1995. North Carolina, while Felton within 67-63 on a driving bas­"Good teams play well had 14 of his 16 points and ket by Williams, McCants was against each other," Duke seven of his 10 assists in the the key to the Tar Heels' 8-0 coach Mike Krzyzewski said. final 20 minutes. run--although he had only "That's why we play well 
The Tar Heels committed two points during the spurt. against them. They're a very "It was 12 rounds," Maryland straight overall and raised its only four turnovers in the sec­He came up with an offensive good basketball team; they forward Nik Caner-Medley record at Gill Coliseum to 10-1. ond half while forcing the rebound on the missed front played with high energy and a said. "From the break it was up Brandon Roy scored 25 Huskies into 13 of their 22. end of a 1-and-1 by Marvin sense of purpose." and down and back and forth." points for Washington. which 
"We gave in to great defense. Williams and fed it back to him The Blue Devils (18-3, 8-3) Redick scored 21 for Duke, shot just 41.2 percent from the We came apart," Connecticut for a basket. Then he made a staggered to the finish without which fell a game behind first­floor and shot just 4-for-27 coach Jim Calhoun said. "We pass to Williams on the wing five players, all of whom fouled place Wake Forest in the ACC. from 3-point range. weren't mentally tough enough and the freshman hit a jumper out late in regulation or in Duke led 86-82 with 1:34 left Llamar Hurd's fast-break 

to stay in our offense and the turnovers led to fast-break bas­kets.." 
And it was McCants, Felton and classmate Sean May, who had 16 points and 13 rebounds, who made the difference. 
The performances by the jun­ior stars enabled the Tar Heels (20-3) to leave the court at the Hartford Civic Center with smiles on their faces instead of the stunned looks they wore following the last-play break­down at Duke. 
"It's big, it just shows how much more mature we are as a team and it showed our poise," Felton said. "We just came off a loss. Everybody was still kind of upset about the situation, but we had to come out and play against a big-time team in a big-time place." 
Marcus Williams had a 
as the shot clock expired that made it 73-63 with 1:48 left. McCants was also bothered by a bug. 
"I've been sick for the last couple of days, so it was just tough for me to get out there and keep my composure and not get down on myself," he said. "But my teammates had confidence in me and kept me in the game and kept giving me good looks and I knocked them down." 
Jawad Williams had 17 points for North Carolina, which leads the series 5-1. 
Josh Boone had 16 points, 11 rebounds and four blocks for the Huskies, who played with­out leading scorer Rashad Anderson. The junior swing­man is hospitalized as he recovers from an infection in his leg. He is averaging 13.8 
overtime. Shelden Williams had 23 points and 16 rebounds, and Daniel Ewing also scored 23. But both were gone long before the finish, as were Shavlik Randolph, Sean Dockery and Lee Melchionni. 
"It was frustrating. We were definitely at a disadvantage missing five of our main play­ers," Duke guard J.J. Redick said. ,"They just had more over­all athleticism than we did in overtime because they still had their main guys." 
Duke went 0-for-9 from the field in overtime, scoring all four of its points at the line. 
With Maryland up 91-90 in the extra session, Garrison scored on a follow and McCray made two foul shots for a five­point cushion. The Blue Devils simply didn't have enough fire­power to mount a comeback. 
in regulation, but three-point plays by Gilchrist and Ekene Ibe kwe put the Terrapins ahead 88-86 with 39 seconds left. Williams fouled out on the latter play, leaving the Blue Devils lacking in the middle. 
DeMarcus Nelson scored on a drive to tie it with 34 seconds left, and Gilchrist and Caner­Medley misfired before the final buzzer. Oregon St. 90, Washington 73 
David Lucas scored 17 of his 2 3 points in the second half and finished with 10 rebounds to lead Oregon State to a victo­ry over No. 11 Washington on Sunday. 
The Huskies (20-4, 10-3 Pac­
10) had their four-game win­ning streak halted, and quietly departed the floor at Gill Coliseum as the Beavers and their fans celebrated at mid­layup gave the Beavers an 89­73 lead with less than 2 min­utes left, and the crowd was on its feet. The ovation continued until fans spilled onto the court after the final buzzer. 
When the teams met last month in Seattle, Washington routed the Beavers 108-68. and Oregon State coach Jay John was hospitalized after com­plaining of chest pains and shortness of breath at the half. John was diagno-sed with hypertension and missed one other game. 
The Beavers played Sunday as if they were determined not to be embarrassed again ­especially at home. 
Oregon State mounted its challenge late in the first half. Leading 35-34, the Beavers went on a 7-0 run. capped by Chris Stephens' 3-pointer, to 

career-high 18 points for the points per game and leads the At the final buzzer, the crowd court. make it 42-34. They led 44-37 
Huskies (15-6). who had won Huskies with 43 3-pointers. poured onto the court to cele­The Beavers (14-9. 6-6) at the break. 
three straight and four of five. Maryland 99, Duke 92 (OT) brate another Maryland victory haven't had as many victories The Beavers picked up their "Their wings did a great job For 40 minutes, Duke with­in one of college basketball's since the 1991-92 season. rally in the second half, taking 
denying and they were able to stood a spirited effort by fiercest rivalries. Oregon State has won three a 52-37 lead on Lucas' layup. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
Two story house completely remod­2 bdrm condo on the lake w/loft. 1-5-bdrm house. $400 per student All WANT $1 0,000? NEED AN eled 2003. Ready tor 2005-06 car garage,close to-NO. $850/mo. utilities included + washer, dryer, INTERNSHIP? Earn a $10,000 
WANTED FoR RENT school year. Off street parking Call 574-329-0838. Avail.now. security system. Call315-3215. tuition scholarship and have includes motion sensor light for one of \he best summer jobs in security. Four individually locked Spotless Apartments Apartment 6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAM­America. Looking for a self-starter bedrooms, six blocks from Notre Cleaning SPECIAL RATES FOR PUS.$195/PERSON AVAIL 05-06. with a strong work ethic and ami­DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW Dame, bus stop in front of house, Great 6-7 bdrm home available 329-0308 able personality, who is responsible BOUNCER WANTED LOCAL PUB LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 surrounded by other student hous­6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm avail­and has great service skills. The job 27 4-4145 532-4933 SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES ing. Laundromat next door able NOW. Both Close to entails house and property work at LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUS­(drycleaning also), basement avail­ND,W/D,on-site parking. ND a beach estate in East Hampton, 
PERSONAL

ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BED­able for storage of bicycles,lug­Internet Canopy access. Call Joe New York. Room,board,and weekly ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT gage,trunks,etc.,new furnace and Crimmins 574-229-3659 spending money included. Work 
NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY central air,new kitchen including Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 from mid-May to mid-Aug. and 
SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. new stove and refrigerator, large liv­5 bdrm on ND Ave available 05-06. must be an ND freshman or sopho­
MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. ing room 1000/mo. email Days $299! Includes Meals, more. If interested, please send a

FOR SALE 
ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006-for TV or entertaining, free trash ndhouses@yahoo.com Celebrity Parties! Panama City, short letter on why you think you 2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7-removal. Call 289-4071. Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica, should get the job and your resume, 8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINI­Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award or any questions, to 
One bedroom condo near UNO. GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEB­STUDENTS. Emergency Weekend UMS AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 Winning Company! Ndsummerjob@ yahoo. com 
Appliances $72,000 280-8160 Kim SITE Cleaning Available. Call or Email for SCHOOL YEAR .TWO BED­SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678­
Kollar WWW.DOMUSKRAMEA.COM OR FREE Estimate ROOM,TWO BATHS 6386 Large-scale mutany on small-scale 
CONTACT KRAMER Spotlessapartments @comcast net HURRY 235-7234 FOR MORE ships usually results in funny mem­574-234-2436 OR 574-315-5032. 574-968-3670 DETAIL. Chia Prof, I am reserved for you. ories with one less friend 
Monday, February 14, 2005 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

~-::·,· 
A V 0 ICE 


THEATRE 


JEN'S SOUND HAS BEEN CALLED URSAN FOLK -A MIX OF HER FAMILY'S FOLK.ROCK BACKGROUND AND HER OWN WORK IN 
JAZZ AND FUNK. 

Sultry vocals... breathtaking tunes. 
F L M 

The Laramie Project 
by Moises Kaufman 
Directed by Anton Juan 
Decio Mainstage Theatre 
February 22 -March 3 

The Loramie Project is port of Spring ARTS/est: Tolerance and Reconciliation 
Tickets: $12, $10 faculty/staff, 
$10 seniors, $8 all students 


Shylock 

wrinen and performed by Gareth Armstrong 
leighton Concert Hall 

Wednesday, February 23 at 8 p.m. 
Shylock is port of Spring ARTSfest.· Tolerance and Reconciliation 
Tickets: $I 8, $16 loculty/slaH, 
$ 14 ~eniors, $12 oil .students 


Dead Man Walking 

by Tim Robbins D1rected by Siiri Scott end Jay Skehan Philbin Studio Theatre 
february 26-March 2 

Dead Man Walking is part of Spring ARTSfest: Tolerance and Reconciliation 
Tickets $12, $10 focultyhtoff, $10 seniors, $8 all students 

BROWNING CINEMA 
Tickets $6, $5 faculty/staff, $4 seniors, $3 all students 
Tickets go on sole each Monday before the screenings. For more information about these films, please visit http://performingarts.nd.edu. 


Bloody Sunday (2002) 
Sponsored by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies Thursday, February 17 at 7 p.m. and 1 0 p.m. 

House of Flying Daggers (2004) 
Friday, February I 8 al I 0 p.m. Saturday, February 19 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m 

Sunrise (1927) 
PAC CLASSIC 100 Saturday, February 19 at 3 p.m. 

M U S C 

Fleur de Lys 
Disembodied Voices: Music of Women in I7th Cr:ntvry Italian Convents and Academies 
Friday, February 18 at 7:30 p.m. Reyes Organ and Choral Hall Tickets: $10, $8 faculty/staff, $6 seniors, $3 all students 
This concert features Dcnielle Svonavec, soprano; Mary Anne Bollard, viola do gambo; end Darlene Cotello, harpsichord. 
NO Jazz Band, NO Symphonic Band, and NO Symphonic Winds 
leighton Concert Hall Salurday, February 19 at 2:30p.m. 
This performance is open to lhe public and free, but tickets must be obtained through the DeBartolo ticket office. 

Jen Chapin in Concert 
leighton Concert Hall Sunday, February 20 at 7 p.m. Tickets: $15, $12 faculty/staff, $)1 seniors, SB all students 
Jen Chopin in Concert is part of Spring ARTSfest: Tolerance ond Reconciliation 
Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra with NO Choruses and Faculty Soloists 
leighton Concert Hall Saturday, February 26 at 8 p.m. Mozart's Overture to Die ZauberRote Beethoven's Triple Concerto Hoyden's Harmoniemesse Tickets: $6, $5 faculty/staff, $4 seniors, $3 all students 

Joan Lippincott -Organ Recital 
Reyes Organ and Choral Hall Sunday, February 27 at 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. Tickels: $10, $8 faculty/staff, $6 seniors, $3 all studenls 

Simon Shaheen and Qantara 
leighton Concert Hall Sunday, February 27 ot7·30 p.m. Tickets $35, $28 faculty/staff, $26 seniors, $15 all students 
Simon Shaheen and Qantara are port of Spring ARTSfest: Tolerance and Reconciliation 
Simon Shaheen is one of lhe most significant Arab musicians of his generation. He is a virtuoso on both the 'oud and the violin. Born in Galilee, Shaheen began to play at the age of five. He has studied in Israel, and the U.S. and his music blend the sounds of Arabic, Middle Eastern and Western Classical Music. With his group Qantara, Shaheen seeks to musically transcend the boundaries of genre and geography. 
-


More event information available at hHp:/ /performingorts.nd.edu 
Discounted tickets are underwritten by the Marie P. DeBartolo Center lor the Performing Arts. There ore o limited number of student discounts available. 


Monday, February 14, 2005 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 



Canseco says his Rangers teanunates used steroids 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-Jose Canseco says be and fellow slugger Mark McGwire were never "buddy buddies" as team­mates on the Oakland Athletics, but had at least one thing in common that they talked about regularly: using steroids. 
Canseco also admits in an interview with "60. Minutes" that he would never have been a major league-caliber player without using the drugs. 
"I don't recommend steroids for everyone and I don't rec­ommend growth hormones for everyone," Canseco tells Mike Wallace. "But for certain indi­viduals, I truly believe, because I've experimented with it for so many years, that it can make an average athlete a super athlete. It can make a super athlete incredible. Just legendary." 
The interview was broadcast Sunday on CBS, one day before the release of Canseco's book. "Juiced: Wild Times, Rampant 'Roids, Smash Hits & How Baseball Got Big." 
Canseco said he and McGwire weren't clo/ie, but often injected together and treated the subject of steroids as casual shop-talk. 
"Mark and I weren't really 
PGA 



Lefty w-ins again at 
in a sense of buddy buddies," Canseco said. "But there are certain subjects that we could talk about like obviously steroids and so forth." 
McGwire, who has repeated­ly denied steroid use, said in a statement to the television news magazine: "Once and for all I did not use steroids nor any illegal substance. The relationship that these allega­tions portray couldn't be fur­ther from the truth." 
Canseco also told Wallace that steroids give athletes an edge besides increased size and strength. "A lot of it is psychological," he said. "I mean, you really believe you have an edge. You feel the strength, and the stamina." 
Canseco also says he intro­duced steroids to former Texas Rangers teammates Rafael Palmeiro, Juan Gonzalez and Ivan Rodriguez. All have publicly denied using performance-enhancing drugs. 
"I injected them. Absolutely," Canseco said. 
Tony La Russa, who man­aged Oakland when McGwire and Canseco helped the A's win a World Series, has stood behind McGwire's denial, telling "60 Minutes" that the first baseman got his strength and size from weightlifting and a careful diet. 
NFL PRO BOWL 

AFC outduels NFC 38-27 
Associated Press 
HONOLULU Peyton Manning was still at the peak of his game in the Pro Bowl, and Michael Vick showed he's only beginning the climb. 

Manning threw three touch­down passes to extend his career record in the NFL's all­star game, while Vick led the NFC to 17 points in a second­half comeback that fell short in the AFC's 38-27 victory Sunday. 
Pittsburgh's Hines Ward caught a touchdown pass and returned an onside kick for a score, and three Chargers stars led the clinching TD drive in the fourth quarter of the AFC's seventh victory in nine meetings. 
Manning, the regular-season MVP after ·breaking Dan Marino's NFL record with 49 touchdown passes, completed just six passes for 130 yards. But three were spectacular scoring tosses, and the Colts quarterback was named the MVP in his fifth trip to the Pro Bowl. 
The game didn't quite have the offensive fireworks of last season's 107-point marathon, but Manning and Vick thrilled the 26th straight sellout crowd at Aloha Stadium with exhibi­tions of their strengths: Manning's expert throws and Vick's jaw-dropping elusive­ness and creativity. 
Manning has thrown 11 TD passes in the Pro Bowl, four more than any quarterback in NFL history. He hit Colts team­mate Marvin Harrison, Ward and San Diego's Antonio Gates in the first 25 minutes while 


Pebble Beach Pro-Am 
Associated Press 

PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. ­Phil Mickelson took all the thrills out of Pebble Beach, and that was just fine by him. 
Despite back-to-hack bogeys that gave the final round Sunday about five min­utes of intrigue, Mickelson won for the second straight week by closing with a l-over 73 to become the first wire­to-wire winner in the 68-year history of the Pebble Beach National Pro-Am. 
The only thing he didn't do on a cold, damp day along the Pacific was set the tourna­ment scoring record. Mickelson finished at 19­under 269, missing by one shot the record set seven years ago by Mark O'Meara. 
Still, it was the first time in his career he had woo in con­secutive weeks. Even more alarming is the margin of vic­tory, especially for a .guy who usually keeps it entertaining to the very end. 
He won by five shots last week in Phoenix. He wound 
-
up winning Pebble by four shots over Mike Weir. Going into this year, Mickelson had won his previous eight PGA Tour events by a combined nine shots, three of those in playoffs. 
"It's been fun," Mickelson said. ''I've been playing well the last couple of weeks. I'm excited to get the year started with a couple of wins." 
The margin might have 

Rentals Available . 
Large Selection of Game Tables, Supplies and Table Toppers. 
50510 St. Rd. 933N • South Bend 
574-272-1617 


offee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, February 15th 
7:30-9:30p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, 
lesbian, and bisexual members of 
the Notre Dame family, their 
friends, and supporters to an 
informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 


Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. *Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
the AFC built a 28-10 halftime lead. 
But Vick was determined to make a splash in his first trip to Hawaii -and with the Atlanta coaching staff calling the plays, he led three straight scoring drives after entering the game in the third quarter. Vick was 14-of-24 for 205 yards and a score, nimbly avoiding several sacks along the way. 
The NFC got within 31-27 on David Akers' field goal, but the AFC's San Diego connection took over. Drew Brees hit Gates for a 33-yard gain on a flea-flicker play selected by fans in an online vote, and LaDainian Tomlinson finished the drive with a 4-yard TD run with 5:15 to play. 
Harrison scored on a 62­yard pass from his Indianapolis teammate in the first quarter, tying Jimmy Smith!s career record with his fifth Pro Bowl touchdown. Ward followed with a 41-yard TD catch on a pinpoint throw from Manning, and he cele­brated with a goofy hula dance with Viii the Warrior, the University of Hawaii's mascot. 
Philadelphia's Brian Westbrook scored on a 12­yard run later in the half­but when the NFC tried an onside kick, Ward leaped for the ball and outran several defenders, avoiding tackles and somersaulting through the end zone. 
It was the first touchdown on a kickoff return in the 55-year history of the Pro Bowl. 
Vick went 4-of-6 and hit Torry Holt for a 27 -yard touch­down play in the first series of his first Pro Bowl appearance. Vick. a four-year veteran, had to drop out of the 2003 game with an injury. 


~--------------------------­
----~ 

I 
OUND THE NATION I 
Monday, February 14, 2005 CoMPILED FROM T!IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 

Women's College Basketball Big East Standings 
team  conf.  overall  
NOTRE DAME  10·2  22-3  
Rutgers  9·2  18·5  
Connecticut  9·2  16·6  
Boston College  7-4  16·6  
Villanova  1·4  14·8  
St. John's  6·6  17·6  
Seton Hall  6·6  14·9  
West VIrginia  4-7  13·9  
Georgetown  4·7  9·13  
Pittsburgh  3·8  11-11  
Syracuse  3·9  11-12  
Providence  0·11  1·21  

Men's College Basketball Big East Standings 
team conf. mmrall 
Boston College 9·1 20·1 Syracuse 9·2 22·3 Georgetown 8·3 16·6 Pittsburgh 7-3 11·4 Connecticut 7·3 15·6 NOTRE DAME 6·5 14-7 VIllanova 5·5 14·6 West VIrginia 4-7 14·8 Seton Hall 3-7 11-10 Rutgers 2·9 8·13 St. John's 2·9 8·13 Providence 1·9 11-13 
Central College Hockey Association 
team  conference  overall  
Michigan  19·3·2  22-7·3  
Ohio State  19·4·1  22·7·3  
Northern Michigan  13·7·4  15·9·6  
Nebraska-Omaha  11·10·3  15·12·3  
Alaska Fairbanks  10·11·3  11-12·3  
Bowling Green  10·9·3  13-11-4  
Miami (Ohio)  9·12·3  13·15·4  
lake Superior State  7·10·5  8·16·6  
Michigan State  8-11·3  13·14-4  
Ferrla State  6-14·4  11-17-4  
Western Michigan  6·14·2  11-15·2  
NOTRE DAME  3·16·5  5·21·6  



around the dial 
NBA 

New York at Philadelphia, 7 p.m., CSN Milwaukee at Detroit, 7:30 p.m., FSN Washington at New Orleans, 8 p.m., NBALP Utah at Phoenix, 9 p.m., NBATV 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Pittsburgh at Syracuse, 7 p.m., ESPN Kansas at Texas Tech, 9 p.m., ESPN Air Force at New Mexico, 11 :59 p.m., ESPN Inside Notre Dame Basketball '04-'05, 3:30 p.m., FSN 
X GAMES Winter X Games Day 1, 2 p.m., ESPN2 Winter X Games Day 2, 3 p.m., ESPN2 
TENNIS SAP Tennis Open 'OS Final, 3 p.m., FSN 
NBA 


Associated Press 

SALT LAKE CITY-As much as Karl Malone wanted to win an NBA title, he just didn't have the desire to play a 20th season. 
Malone officially announced his retirement Sunday, ending his career where it started when the Utah Jazz selected him with the 13th pick in the 1985 draft. 
"Even though I left for a year, I grew here as a Jazz man." Malone said at a news conference at the· Delta Center. "If I'm fortunate enough to go into the Hall of Fame, I will go as a Jazz man." 
The 41-year-old finishes second on the NHA's career scoring list with 
36.928 points, just 1,459 behind Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. 
Malone met with the San Antonio Spurs last week and was considering 
IN BRIEF 

Safina downs No. 2 seed Mauresmo to win Open PAHIS -Dinara Sal'ina of Hussia beat second-seeded Amelie Mauresmo of France 6-4, 2-6, 6·3 to win the Open Gaz de France on Sunday. Salina, the sister of two-time Grand Slam winner Marat Safin, clinched her third WTA career title following wins at Palermo in 2003 and Sopot in 2002. Mauresmo, who won here in 2001, finished second for the third time. "She took her chances and was more solid than me," Mauresmo said. "I had a lot of chances to break in the first set but she finished by coming out on top. I didn't play my best, but that's the way it goes." Down 2-1 in the final set, Mauresmo saved one break point with a booming serve but then hit a wild forehand long. Safina won the game, then went up 5-l. Mauresmo rallied. breaking Safina and holding easily to get to 5-3. But 
owner Larry Miller and coach .Jerry Sloan, Malone thanked the Jazz for picking him after 12 teams had passed. 
Malone was the league's MVP in 1997 and '99. One of the most durable players ever. Malone is also second only to Abdul-Jabbar's 57.44(, minutes played with 54,852. Malone's 14,968 rebounds rank him sixth all­time and he also was a 14-time All· Star selection, winning the game MVP in 1989 and sharing it with longtime teammate John Stockton in 1993. 
"I had great players in Karl Malone and John Stockton, so I was very lucky," Sloan said. "I said all along when I had them. You don't find this every day. And you know what? There was a great deal of jealousy that peo­ple had of those guys because of' that." 
a return, hoping for one more chance at a championship ring, but he decid­ed that mentally he couldn't play at the level that made him one of the best ever in the league. 
Malone had knee surgery last sum­mer and said he was fully recovered from the injury that forced him to miss half of last season. But his mind wasn't up to returning to basketball. 
"When I got on that plane, I knew I was done. That it was time," Malone said. "I look at basketball as 100 per­cent physically and 100 percent men­tally. And if I can't bring you 200 per­cent, from me, I can't bring you any­thing." 
Malone said he wanted to keep from getting too emotional, and he suc­ceeded -even when recalling Utah's glory days of the 1990s. Sitting on platform with his wife, Kay, Jazz 
Salina went ahead 40-15 serving for the match, and clinched the champi­onship with an overhead smash Mauresmo was unable to return. 
Gaudio beats Puerta in all­Argentine final BUENOS AIHES. Argentina ­Second-seeded Gaston Gaudio beat wild card Mariano Puerta 6-4, 6-4 in an all-Argentine final at the ATP Buenos Aires on Sunday. Gaudio, the 2004 French Open win­ner, waited for his chances and got the only service break of the first set in the fifth game to take a 3-2 lead. He kept that lead to take the first set as a sold-out crowd of 6,500 packed the stands at center court. The second set featured long, blis­tering rallies and evenly matched play. Though a tiring Gaudio made more mistakes, his well-placed fore­hand shots and serve made the dif­ference. "I was very tired in the second set but perhaps my greater experience and having more confidence enabled 
me to win this even match." said Gaudio. who has been playing daily l'or the last two weeks. "I've been playing with a lot more confidence ever since winning Holand Garros." 
White Sox trade Escobar for Owens from the Nationals WASHINGTON -The Washington Nationals acquired outl'i!~lder Alex Escobar !'rom the Chicago Whit!' Sox on Sunday in exchangt~ for minor league outfielder Jerry Owens. A former top prospect for tlw New York Mets, the 26-year-old Escobar's ­career has been slowed by injuries. He has a .229 average with nine home runs and 34 HBis in 92 games with the Mets and Cleveland Indians. Escobar missed the 2002 season with a torn knee ligament, and played in 46 games for Cleveland last year before his season was cut short by a stress fracture in his right root. lie was claimed off waivers by the White Sox in August and was imme­diately placed on the 15-Day disabled list. 
---~-----~--------, 
Monday, February 14, 2005 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
ND WoMEN's TENNIS 
Team loses one set and shuts out Boston College 

By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Associate Sports Editor 
The No. 21 Irish lost just one set against Boston College en route to a 7-0 shellacking of the No. 60 Golden Eagles. 
With the victory, Notre Dame has put itself in excellent posi­tion to clinch to No. 1 seed at the Big East tournament in Tampa on April 21-23. Boston College is the only Big East team besides Notre Dame cur­rently ranked in the national rankings. 
In doubles, Notre Dame got 8-4 wins from its No. 1 and No. 3 pairings and a 8-2 victory at the No. 2 position to give the Irish the doubles point. Lauren Connelly and Brook Buck defeated Lindsey Nash and Gia Nafarette at the No. 2 position, improving their team-best dou­bles record to 16-4. 
At No. 3, Sarah Jane Connelly and Kristina Stastny had no trouble with Boston College's Caitlin Arnauld and Morgan Landes, and Notre Dame's top doubles team of Catrina and Christian Thompson dispatched Szilvia Szegedi and Nida Waseem. 
The Irish were equally impressive in singles competi­tion with Catrina Thompson knocking off Szegedi 6-3, 1-0 at No. 1 in a match that was shortened when Szegedi retired with an injury. 
At No. 2, Buck defeated Waseem 6-1, 6-2, and Christian Thompson disposed 
of Nash by a score of 6-2. 6-0 at the No. 3 position. 
At No. 4, Lauren Connelly and Landes had the most com­petitive match, with Connelly winning 6-0, 4-6, 1-0 (13-11) to improve her match tiebreak­er record to 5-0. Stastny knocked off Amy Moldfm 6-3, 6-0 at No. 5, and Liz Donohue defeated Nafarette 6-1, 6-2 to close out the victory at the No. 6 position. 
With the shutout victory, the Irish improved their all-time record against Boston College to 11-0. 
Notre Dame returns home Friday to face No. 6 Duke at 3:30p.m. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish finish fourth of six teams at Windsor 
By RYAN KIEFER 
Sports Writer 
Mission accomplished. 

Two simple words that describe the results for the Notre Dame women's track team at this weekend's Windsor Team Challenge in 
Windsor, Ontario. confident going
"We got done what
A partial squad into the Big East 
of Irish runners we set out to do. " finals, despite finished fourth the fact that out of six teams, they have not
Tim Connelly
but achieved its won the champi­
Irish coach 
meet goal by qualifying two runners for next weekend's Big East Championships. Freshmen Becky Antas and Rachel Heneghan both qualified for by running sub 3-minute times in the 1,000 meters. 
In addition to qualifying runners for the Big East meet, the Irish also focused on get­ting their sprinters experi­ence on the short, 200-meter track. The athletes responded with several standout per­formances. Maryann Erigha won the 60-meter dash in 
7. 53 seconds, and teammates Brienne Davis and Dominique Manning were close behind in second and fourth respective­ly. 
Erigha also won the 300, while Okechi Ogbuokiri fin­ished second. 
Tiffany Gunn notched another victory for the Irish in the 600 meters, with fresh­man Crysta Swayzer finishing third. 
Notre Dame did not send any distance runners who had previously notched Big East qualifying times, nor did they send any relay teams or field athletes to the meet. The coaching staff chose to leave these athletes behind to allow
-
them to rest for next week­end. 
In a field that featured four Canadian schools, and the University of Detroit Mercy, the level of competition was much less than the Irish expect at the Big East meet. Coach Tim Connelly did not seem concerned. 
"It was a very low-key envi­ronment, a very relaxed 


onship since 
2002. 

Connelly was pleased with his team's final tune up this weekend and can now turn his attention to the Big East. 
"We got done what we set out to do," Connelly said. "Now it's on to the conference meet." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer1@nd.edu 
Discover 
What's 
Inside 

atmosphere," Connelly said. "Sometimes tha.t is good to have before entering meets where the competition is going to be heated and every­one is tense." 
Competition is expected to be fierce Friday and Saturday in Syracuse. N.Y. for the con­
ference meet. 
The Irish are 

Monday, February 14, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
HOCKEY 
Irish drop pair of games against Bulldogs 
Late Ferris goal dooms ND Friday; defense gives up four goals Saturday 
minutes later when Noah Babin Welch led a 3-on-2 up the ice,By BOBBY GRIFFIN took a pass from forward T.J. leading to a Matt Verdone game
Sports Wmer 
Jindra and ripped a slap shot from winning short-handed goal. 
the point. beating goalie Derek "You think that you can't lind a 
In a smL<;on that has bem1 frus­Macintyre at 9:41. new way, we found a new way trating to say the least. the Irish At 12:23, Ferris State defense­tonight," Poulin said, alluding to found new ways to lose this wonk­man Adam Welch was penalized the ways in which his team has end, dropping two games to Ferris for hooking. been losing games this year. State l.Jy scem~s of 4-3 Friday and Notre Dame capitalized on the Sophomore defenseman Noah 4-2 Saturday. penalty at 13:02 when Jason Paige Babin was on the ice for all four of 
A shorthanded goal with under a collected a rebound off a Wcs the Bulldogs' goals. minute lef'l in the third period O'Neill shot, beating Macintyre It appeared early Saturday night proved to be the dillerence Friday from the left circle and tying the the Irish had forgotten about night, and the Bulldogs' four-goal game at three a piece. Friday's painful defeat, as they second period Saturday night The remainder of the second leapt out to a 1-0 lead at 9:26 in moved Notre Dame's winless period was scoreless, and the Irish the first period. stmak to 13 games. looked poised to snap their losing Positioned ncar the right circle, 
"To give~ up the winning goal streak that had extended back to Babin scored on a one-timer from shorthanded in the last minute, I Jan. 2. Josh Sciba who was positioned can't really explain that," Irish Notm Dame had a dear chance behind the net. It was the first time coach Dave Poulin said following to take the lead at 11:18 when the Irish had scored first in a game 
-


Friday's game. Friday night st.artod of!' as usual l(u· ttw lri-;h, as they got down 1-0  Mike Walsh ripped a shot right at Maclntyrn's chest. The puck fell to the right side of the crease, but the  since Jan. 14. The Irish played a very intense first period. but their momentum  BETH WERNETfThe ObseNer Irish forward Cory Mclean, who scored Saturday against Ferris State, takes the puck up the Ice against Nebraska Omaha on Feb. 5.  
early  on  a  .Jeff  Legue  goal.  referee whistled the play dead  seemed to change at 17:58· when  
Following a Notrn Dame turnover,  before the Irish tapped the loose  Walsh got a 5-minute major for  on to score lour goals in the second  call.  
Legue took control of' the puck, cut  puck into the net.  checking from bc~hind.  period-two of which came dur­ Ferris State kept the puck in thn  
across the ice from the right circle  "That's the way it's going right  Poulin stressed this was what  ing the 5-minute game miscon­ Irish zone, eventually leading to a  
and scon~d on Irish goalie Morgan  now," Poulin said. "It was a real  changed the game in his mind ­ a  duct.  Legue score at 18:47.  
Cey f(Jr his 18th goal of the season  quick whistle, and that's just the  penalty that to him wa.o; completely  The first goal came just 21 sec­ The sole IrL'ih goal in tlw period  
at I: II of tlw first period.  way it's going."  inexcusable.  onds into the second period, when  came at 10:02 when Chris Trick  
Ferris State extendnd its lead to  At 17:46. Nesbitt was called for  "I thought the five minute major  Nesbitt deflected a Legue pass into  found  Cory McLean, who  cut  
two goals at 13:50, when .Jim  hooking, and the Irish looked  changed the game," Poulin said.  the net, beating goalie David  across the ice and flopped  one  
.Jorgtmsen took a pass from Greg  poised to take the lead again on  "We were much aware of the puck  Brown. to tie the score at one.  behind Macintyre.  
Hallo and beat Cey with a back­ the power play. But it was Ferris  in the first period  ... and then the  At 3:11, Verdone took a back­ The Irish failed to get any ofl'ense  
handed shot in close.  State that would benefit from the  late 5-minute penalty changed the  door pass from Zac Pearson and  going in the third period, manag­ 
Notn~ Dame responded at 16:15  pemalty.  entire flow of the entire game.  tipped it in the net, and at 14:16  ingjust three shol-; in the\ period.  
wl11m Mark Van Guilder deflected  With  a  little  over  a  minute  "It's a tough call, and yet any  Hallo scored off a  pass from  "We couldn't generate anything,  
an Evan Hankin pa.'is into the net  remaining in the game, the Irish  time a player is hit from behind at  Nesbitt who was stationed behind  they pulled  back  and  playnd  
to cut the lead to 2-1.  were up pressing on ofl'ense, trying  all, I want to see it called. When I  the net.  defense, and we absolutely could­ 
The Bulldogs scored quickly to  to score the game-winning goal.  played it wasn't a penalty, because  Notre Dame's struggles contin­ n't generate anything," Poulin said.  
opPn the second p11riod on a Derek  Welch took the puck from the right  it never happened ­ you never hit  ued when they were unable to  
Nesbitt scorn at 3:53.  boards and exploited Notre Dame's  anyone from behind."  dear the puck during a penalty kill  Contact Bobby Griffin at  
The Irish responded about six  inability to get back on defense.  From here, Ferris St.1.te would go  stemming from a Hankin holding  rgriffi3@nd.edu  


Can anything else go wrong? 
About the only thing miss­ing from this season is a black cat running across the ice during an intermission. 
The latest episode in a snake-bitten year took place in Friday night's game against Ferris State, with the Irish and Bulldogs knotted at three goals apiece late. Irish defenseman Luke Lucyk was whistled for hooking with 6 minutes left in the period and Notre Dame trying des­perately to hold on to its momentum after coming back from a 3-1 deficit earlier in the game. 
If' the Irish could kill the penalty, it would give a boost to the team and give them momentum heading down the final minutes of the contest. Not only did Notre Dame kill the penalty, but it didn't even allow Ferris State's offense a look at Irish goalie Morgan Cey. 
And 13 seconds after killing Lucyk's minor, Ferris State was slapped with a penalty of its own -a bench minor for 

Justin Schuver 
Associate Sports Editor 

timeout. 
"I just wanted everyone to 
get a breather." he said. "Our 
power plays are all for differ­
ent lines, and we took the 
timeout so that each line 
would be able to catch its 
breath." 
The hockey gods finally seemed to shine on Notre Dame following the timeout, as Ferris State forward Derek Nesbitt was whistled for hooking at 17:43, giving the Irish a 5-on-3 advantage. 
But things started to go wrong for the Irish from the very beginning. 
Forward Mike Walsh jammed his finger against the boards and had to stay on the bench, then forward Mark Van Guilder had trouble with his skate and had to retreat to th-e bench to re-lace it. 
Even with their lines jum­bled, the Irish were still able to get several chances on Bulldog goalie Derek Macintyre. But none of those chances were as close as when Irish forward Evan Hankin managed to get ofT a hard shot from point-blank range that Macintyre was able to swat away. 
Focused entirely on getting the go-ahead goal and their first win in 13 games, the Irish weren't able to get back in time after Ferris State's Adam Welch took the puck 
what happened next shouldn't 
have been a surprise. 
Welch skated down the left side and made a quick pass across the ice to Matt Verdone, who broke the hearts of the Notre Dame faithful with a quick wrister that beat Cey with just 53 seconds remaining. 
Notre Dame did everything right in this game -they scored two power play goats; they Clune back from a two­goal deficit; Cey canw up with big saves at big moments­but once again, as has hap­pened 21 times already this season, the Irish ended up in the losing column. 
Following tho game, Poulin was speechless as he tried to explain what had just hap­pened to his team. 
"A shorthandPd goal with less than a minut1~ IPf't ... I just can't explain that," ht> said. 
This time last year. the Irish were ge~tting excitt>d about the prospects of making thl' NCAA to u rnaml' nt for th P first time in school history. Now, they're trying to avoid finishing the year with the ­worst record in the program's history. 
Now that's something hard to explain. 
-

The opinions expressed in this column are those of the 
too many men on the icc. down the ice on a 3-on-2 author and not necessarily Sensing a perfect time to rally rush. those of The Ohseruer. his troops, Irish coach Dave For Irish fans who have Contact Justin .'-ichul'er at Poulin called his team's only watched this team all season, jschWlt'r@n d. edu. 

Monday, February 14, 2005 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Team picks up two much-needed wins 
By KATE GALES Sports Wrirer 
After a brief setback last weekend, the Irish got back on track with a pair of 7-0 victories against Marquette and the University of Indianapolis this weekend. 
Marquette, who will join the Big East Conference next year. put up a solid fight in doubles but fell to an Irish squad eager to improve to 7­2. 
The No. 29 Irish then top­pled Division-11 University of Indianapolis with ease to improve to 8-2 as the team prepares to face No. 39 Northwestern Friday. 
"These were matches that I felt we were the favorite in," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "We needed to play up to our capabilities and I think we did that." 
The doubleheader allowed Bayliss to manipulate the lineup and the players' posi­tions. 
"The second match was one in which we were able to get some of the guys into the lineup who hadn't had much chance to play, and that's always rewarding," he said. 
Against Marquette, the Irish swept the doubles point, although the team's No. 2 pair of Eric Langenkamp and Sheeva Parbhu played through a tiebreaker to win 9-8 (7-2). Jimmy and Stephen Bass were first off the courts with an 8-5 victory at the third spot, and the team's top duo of Brent D'Amico and Ryan Keckley posted another 8-5 victory for three Irish wins. 
"I felt that Marquette was a very well-coached in dou­bles," Bayliss said. 
In singles, Stephen Bass ­currently ranked at No. 78 nationally -won 6-0, 6-2 for the second Notre Dame point of the match. No. 112­

Save a Tree. 

,. I 
Recycle 
The 
''··' 

Observer! 
1' .·:~ ji}:.u;;;,~,.·:,~~J~·' "/ ' ; • -~-~~ ·.; '": ~~--~--~; J !" . 

nationally ranked Barry 
King followed him at the 
third position with a 6-1, 6-1 
win, and Keckley clinched 
the match with a 6-1, 6-4 
win. 
Langenkamp also put up a 
6-2, 6-2 win at No. 6; Patrick 
Buchanan battled to 6-3, 6-4 
point at No. 4; and D'Amico 
finished the match with a 6­
1, 3-6, 6-2 win at No.1. 
"We feel like we have eight ~starters in singles," Bayliss 
said. "I think Eric and Ryan 
Keckley are quite good and 
in fact started most of last 
year. and we need to get 
them in some matches." 
Against Indianapolis, the 
Irish performed even better. 
not losing a single set to the 
Greyhounds. In doubles, 
D'Amico and Keckley raced 
off the courts with an 8-1 
win, and Brandon Pierpont 
and Yuichi Uda posted an 8­
1 win at No. 3 to clinch the 
point for the Irish. Captain 
Nick Chimerakis and Peter 
Graham, playing at No. 2, 
recorded an 8-2 victory to 
seal the deal for the Irish. 
In singles, King was first 
off the courts with a 6-2, 6-0 
win at No. 2. He was fol­
lowed by Keckley at No. 5, 
who won 6-0, 6-1. The 
match was clinched by 
Irackli Akhvlediani, who 
won 6-1, 6-0 at No.4. 
Debuting at No. 3 for the 
first time in his career. 
Parbhu won 6-1, 6-1, and 
Langenkamp won 6-1, 6-0 at 
No.6. 
Bass returned to the No. 1 
spot, winning 6-2, 6-3. 
Although the wins are 
good for the Irish record, 
Bayliss is careful to keep the 
victories in perspective. 
"When there's no cause to 
just jump up and down, I 
don't think we should be 
doing it," he said. "From 
here on in, it's tough sled­
ding." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
FENCING 
Irish shine at Duke Duals 
Both squadsfinish competition with 4-0 records 
By EIUC RETTER Sports Writer 
As the regular season comes to a close, the Irish are in a strong position for both postseason competition and in their own his­tory books. 
The Notre Dame men's and women's squads, ranked No. 4 and No. 2 respectively, both con­cluded their regular seasons with 4-0 records at the Duke Duals over the weekend. 
Coach Janusz Bednarski was pleased in the performances of his teams. 
"We did pretty well in the com­petition," he said. "My feeling is that we had a good tournament." 
After defeating Johns Hopkins 20-7 and Duke. North Carolina and Air Force all by a score of 21-6, the Irish men are in good shape heading into the postsea­son, finishing with a regular sea­son record of21-3. 
The men were led by three­time All-American senior epeeist Michal Soberiaj and freshman Greg Howard, who went 10-2 and 11-1, respectively. Soberiaj fmished the season with a record of 65-4, the third most wins ever by a men's fencer and the most by an epeeist. His career . 936 winning percentage is also tops for an epeeist, and his 176-12 career record is second among epeeists and seventh in all weapons. 
Despite their accomplishments, Bednarski anticipates Soberiaj and other decorated senior fencers are still hungry. 
"I hope they will go on to medals [at the NCAA Championships] and did not fin­ish the season already," he said. 
While the men's epee unit led all weapons with a 29-7 record, the foils and sabres also compet­ed well, compiling respective records of28-8 and 26-10. 
Freshman Jakub Jedrkowiak led the foilists with a perfect 12­0 record, while sophomore All­American Patrick Ghattas matched his record to head the sabre attack. 
Throughout the season, the 

Irish dominated opponents in all three weapons. Behind Soberiaj, the epeeists were a perfect 24-0, while -the sabres went 20-4 and the foilists ended the season at 17-7. 
The Notre Dame women were equally successful in Durham, defeating North Carolina 21-6 and Johns Hopkins 26-1, while triumphing over Duke and Air Force by scores of 16-11 and 22­5 respectively. These scores were especially impressive considering the Irish were without three of their top fencers. as All­American sophomore epeeist Amy Orlando, freshman sabre Marie! Zagunis missed the event to compete in an international qualifying event and senior foilist and three-time champion Alicja Kryczalo also did not compete. 
In fact, in an effort to begin preparing for next season, Bednarski allowed many back­ups to see action this weekend. 
"My thinking was a little risky. I didn't want to lose the position of the team, which is strong, but I wanted to give kids a chance to think that they can replace [our seniors]," he said. 
Three time All-American sen­ior foilist Andrea Ament and fifth-year epeeist Kerry Walton both went undefeated at Duke, adding 12 wins to their already impressive totals. Sophomore sabre and 2004 NCAA champion Valerie Providenza and freshman foilist Melanie Bautista both fol­lowed closely at 11-1. Walton's record of 17 5-28 is fourth all­time among women's epeeists and 11th in all weapons for most career wins. and Kryczalo's .931 winning percentage is 3rd high­est all-time in Notre Dame women's fencing. 
_On the season, the foilists were an undefeated 24-0, while both the sabres and epeeists amassed 20-4 records. 
With all that the Irish have behind them. Bednarski notes that the most important part of the season is still ahead. 
"We have strong opponents, some very good, high class fencers coming up [at the NCAAs]," he said. "It will not be easy." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
Information Session for the Universitt1 ofNotre Dame's International Study Programs 
Study Abroad This Summer! Eam NO credit in: 
...............---..~._.....,.,.,,__...,..,.,.., Dublin, Ireland Toledo, Spain Plus, new this summer: Berlin, Germany Rome, Italy Puebla, Mexico (ND EG courses offered!) Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
Wednesday, February 16, 2005 5:30pm 126 DeBartolo Hall 

APPLICATION DEADLINE IS MARCH 1, 2005 
------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------------------------­
Monday, February 14, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
ChaiDps 
continued from page 24 
Booth gave up five hits while ringing up eight strikeouts, including clutch back-to-hack strikeout<; with a runner in scor­ing position to end the sixth inning. The win came after an up-and-down tournament in which the Irish struggled early but dominated late. 
The team lost on Friday to both Florida and No. 21 South Florida, but came back Saturday to beat Coastal Carolina and South Florida before winning the tournament with an upset victory over Florida on Sunday. 
Booth got plenty of support in the title game from her team­mates. who took some pressure off her by putting runs on the board. 
Three Irish players each fin­ished with three hits, including two HBl singles from National Player of the Year candidate Megan Ciolli. Freshman Katie Laing helped manufacture two runs with a pair of doubles. and junior Sara Schoonaert was able to get her first two hits of the season. including a fifth-inning HBl single that helped chase Florida starting pitcher Stacey Stevens from the game. 
Florida. which had won its four games in the tournament and was ofT to the best start in school history with its 11-0 record. jumped ahead early when an error by Irish third basmnan Liz Hartmann with runners on first and second and no outs allowed a runner to scorn. 
The Irish managed to shut down the Gator rally, and quick­ly rnsponded in the third inning. Laing led olf with a double, and moved to third on a sacrifice by sophomore Gessica Hufnagle. An HBI groundout by sopho­more Stephanie Brown scored Laing and tied the game. 
Laing continued to be the spark for the Irish offense in the fifth inning. She once again led off with a double, and moved to third with a second sacrifice by Hufnagle. With a single up the middle by Schoonaert, Laing scored and put the Irish ahead for good. Ciolli's RBI single later in the inning to score Schoonaert would prove to be the game winner. Florida would come within a run when Booth allowed an HBI double in the sixth, but her consecutive strike­outs to end the inning and a sec­ond RBI by Ciolli sealed the vic­tory for the Irish. 
The win against No. 19 Florida was the first time since 2001 that Notre Dame has recorded two consecutive wins against ranked opponents. The Irish got their first victory over a ranked opponent, and their trip to the title game, after beating No. 21 South Florida 5-1 the day before. 
After losing to both Florida and South Florida on Friday, the Irish were able to avenge both losses and leave Gainesville with a strong performance and a GRU Classic title. 
The key to both victories was strong pitching. Senior Stephanie Stenglein, rebounding from a loss on the first day of the tournament, turned in a dominating performance, recording a complete game three-hitter and striking out 10 while giving up only one run against South Florida. 
Stenglein got plenty of support from her offense, which had seven hits, a vast improvement from the previous night, when the team was held to only one. The leader of the Notre Dame attack was junior Kellie Middleton, who jacked a two­run homer over the left field wall to extend the Irish lead to 4-1. Middleton also created the first run for her team when she singled, stole second, and scored on a throwing error. The Irish showed as much skill playing small ball·as they did playing long ball during Saturday's win. Middleton's third inning steal was one of six by Notre Dame, one shy of the school record. Ciolli had three steals, while Laing added another two. 
Notre Dame 2, Coastal 
Carolina 0 
The Irish claimed their first victory of the season behind a two-hit complete game shutout by Booth. The game remained scoreless until the fourth inning, when Notre Dame broke it open with back-to-hack doubles by Middleton and Ciolli. The Irish got their second run when Laing doubled to the left-center gap for her first career hit, then scored when Stephanie Brown beat out an infield single for the RBI. 
South Aorlda 5, Notre Dame 0 
The Irish started the season 0­2 for the first time since 1997 with a loss to close out Friday that featured struggles on both offense and defense. Notre Dame managed just one hit, a single by Ciolli in the seventh, and committed three errors in the field, resulting in four unearned runs. Heather Booth took the loss, going seven innings and giving up six hits while striking out two. 
Florida 3, Notre Dame 2 
The Irish opened up their sea­son in disappointing fashion, dropping the first game of the tournament despite Ol,lthitting Florida, 4-3. Stephanie Stenglein pitched 6.1 innings, giving up three runs and allow­ing three hits and four walks while striking out seven. An HBI double by Meagan Ruthrauff gave the team an early lead, but the Irish could not hold on. Huthrauff also singled to start a potential comeback in the sev­enth, but the rally was not 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy1@nd.edu 

Rome, Italy Campus 
Prepare Yourself for the Global Arena 
Picture yourself in Rome, studying to receive your American master's degree while living in the heart of the Eternal City, one of the most historic and cultural cities in the world. 
St. John's University, the only accredited American university offering you this unique opportunity, makes it possible for you to complete your entire degree in Rome, whether you are interested in pursuing an M.B.A. degree or an M.A. degree. 
Master of Business Administration Accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (www.aacsb.edu) 
• 
International Business 

• 
International Finance 

• 
Marketing Management 


Master of Arts in Government and Politics Accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education (www.msache.org) 
• International Relations 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles end lackluster season on a sour note 
Swimmers come in last place at MIAA Championships 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's swim­ming team competed in the three-day MIAA Swimming and Diving Championships over the weekend. The Belles finished in last place out of the seven participants, amassing only 141 total points. 
On Thursday, the Belles finished in fifth place in the 200-yard freestyle relay with a time of 1 minute, 43 sec­onds. Saint Mary's missed capturing fourth place by 12 hundredths of a second. 
Sarah Nowak gave the team a spark in the 200-yard individual medley with a final time of 2:13 and a fourth-place finish. 
The team's disappointing start to the championships dropped them into sixth place at the conclusion of a day one as it registered only 49 total points. 
On Friday, Nowak once again shined for the Belles as she concluded the tOO­yard breaststroke in second place with a time of 1:08. But in the 800-yard freestyle relay, the Belles could not place any higher than fifth. 
Saint Mary's totaled 106 points going into the final day of the MIAA tournament, only five points ahead of last-place Alma. 
Saturday offered little for 
the Belles to celebrate and concluded in much the same way as the previous two days had for the team. Nowak was once again outstanding, as she again placed second in the 200-yard breaststroke with a time of 2:28. 
In the meet's finale, the 400-yard freestyle relay, arguably Saint Mary's strongest event throughout the season, the team of Kelly Nelis, Nicole Korte, Bridget Green and Nowak finished in fifth place. The team con­cluded the event with a time of 3:45. 
The Belles' struggles on day three were enough for Alma to overtake them for sixth, leaving Saint Mary's in last place. 
Nowak was honored as the performer of the meet for Saint Mary's for the second time this year. She was also recognized as the team's most valuable swimmer in the second meet of the sea­son with her outstanding performances against llope and Olivet. 
The Belles concluded league action with a final record of 1-5, placing them in sixth place in the confer­ence. 
As for the Belles, they are graduating only two seniors this year in swimmers Ashley Dyer and Michelle Stanforth. Next year, the young team will look to improve upon this season's strengths and weakness and hope to come one step closer to capturing an MIAA title. 
Contact Justin Stentz at jstetz@nd.edu 
Write Sports. Call1-4543 

Announcing the Year 2005 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Alben Kavarino family. the Italian Studocs Program is pleased to announce lhc year 2005 annual competition for travel in support of summer research and foreign study in Italy. Grunts will be made in amounts not to cx~ccd $3,000, and will not nomtally cover all expenses. Notre Dame gradumc and undergraduate students who arc planning to pursue research or u formal program of summer study in Italy arc invited to apply. Students must have completed ot least one year of Italian lnnguage. The course work willnonnnlly be on ltuli:m: will involve th~ study of Italian lungua)!C, literature, und culture; and must be applic-able to a studen1\ degree progmm ut the University of Notre Dame. 
Rccomrncndcd programs fur foreign stuUy im:ludc, hut tlfe not linutcd to. Loyola Uouvcr.ity in Rome. Boston Unovcrsity 111 Padua. UCLA on Pisa. ~iami Unovcr"IY 111 Urhino. Columhia Univen;ity in Sc.:andiano. lntcrc\tcd students arc encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign ,tudy in the l>t·panmcnt of Romance l.unguages, J-13 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students arc invited to submit a letter which 'hould include: 
I)  an explunnlion ol how the propnsecl fC'l'Urth or fnreign !rr.ludy will cnhuncl• thl"ir  
tl!.!grcc prn~ram at Notre Dumc  
2)  a personal st<ttentl"l11 indicating their back)\round, int~rc,b, and lon!(·tcrm !(<llll'  
3)  a description ofthe research project or the program they intend to follow  
4)  a hudgct indicating the cost' involved  
5)  the names of two references.  

Rome Campus Contact Information: Via di Santa Maria Mediatrice, 24-00165 Rome, Italy U.S. Ph. (212) 815-9216 Ext. 2 E-mail: info11 @stjohns.edu Website: www.stjohns.edu/rome 
S5361 

Appllcutlon Deadline: Munduy, Fchnoury 21", 2005 Albert Ravarino Jlulllm Sludle.\ Truvt'l SclwlurHhlp Pro~rum in ltuliun Studies 343 O'Shuughne.'iHY Hull llnlvcrsily of Notre l>nme 
Monday, February 14, 2005

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
Al01a 
continued from page 24 
"That creates so· many more opportunities for us." 
With 6 minutes showing on the game clock, Kessler com­bined defense and offense, stripping Scot center Darcie Philp at one end and hitting a 3-pointer at the other end to give Saint Mary's its first lead of the half 
Quickly, though, Alma regained the lead when Ashley Matuzak made her only field goal of the game on the team's ensuing pos­session. 
The teams went back-and­forth until the Belles. down by one, turned the ball over with 
1:15 left in the game. After a reach-in foul on Saint Mary's -just the team's fifth of the half. Scot star Katey Peacock scored the final two of her 19 points with 25.5 seconds remaining to give Alma a four­point lead. 
With 8.6 seconds left, Kessler drew a foul as she rebounded a missed 3-pointer. After draining the first free throw and cutting the deficit to three, Kessler appeared to have tried to miss the second, but the ball bounced in for the MIAA's leading free-throw shooter. 
The Belles then saw 3.2 sec­onds run off the clock after having to foul twice to force the Scots into the bonus. With 
5.4 seconds left. Alma's Ashley Borcherding made the front end of a one-and-one to give 
Panthers 
continued from page 24 
the arc. 
Quinn almost played the hero for Notre Dame, scoring six straight points in 47 seconds to give the Irish their final lead, 62-61, with 2:01 to play. Quinn also hit a long 3-pointer to tie the game at 65 with 42 seconds to go. 
But after Krauser converted the floater, Rick Cornett made 1-of-2 free throws. The Panthers' Ronald Roman made the second of two foul shots to put his team up two, and Pittsburgh stole a full court inbounds pass to end the game. 
The Irish led by as many as five after a Thomas 3-pointer made the score 49-44 with 
12:55 to play, but the Panthers responded with a 14-1 run ­with Krauser and center Chris Taft on the bench -in under six minutes. Pittsburgh forward Chevon Troutman {13 points, four rebounds) converted two free throws with 7:05 remain­ing to give Pittsburgh a 58-50 lead. 
Notre Dame made 48.3 per­cent of its 3-pointers on 14-of­29 shooting. 
But less than a week after tying his career high with 2 3 points against Boston College, Irish guard Colin Falls shot a frustrating 2-of-11 from the field, making just 1-of-10 3­point shots. 
The point production of Notre Dame's big men also forced Thomas and Quinn to put the team on their backs. 
Torin Francis scored one point and committed four turnovers in 26 minutes. Dennis Latimore had two points and four fouls in 19 min­utes, and Cornett managed the Scots a two-point lead. 
When she missed the sec­ond, Katie Boyce grabbed the rebound, ran down court and took the shot. 
Her off-balance, desperation 3-pointer clanked off the rim, and the Belles are in a tie for seventh place with Adrian in the MIAA. Whichever team finishes eighth must win a play-in game before the MIAA tournament just to earn the daunting task of facing the No. 1 seed. 
Saturday's game was "a tough Joss," Kessler said. "but ... our expectations are to win our next two games, without a doubt." 
Alma 53, SAINT MARY'S 51 at ANGELA ATHLETIC CETER 
SAINT MARY'S (9-14, 4-10) 
Creachbaum 3-10 3-5 9, Bush 6-16 0-1 12, K. Boyce 2-5 0-0 4, Lipke 1-9 0-0 2, 
B. Boyce 3-10 3-4 11, Kessler 2-5 3-4 8, Mullen 1-3 0-0 2, Mangan 0-3 3-4 3. 
ALMA (5-9, 10-10) 
Peacock 9-15 1-1 19, Dettling 0-3 0-0 0, 
E. Philp 4-5 0-0 8, Lounds 1-4 0-0 2, Borcherding 2-5 3-4 8, VanDamme 0-1 0-0 0, Way 1-4 1-2 3, Matuzak 1-4 1-2 3, D. Philp 3-13 5-6 10 16. 
1st  2nd Total  
SAINT MARY'S 22  29  51  
Alma  25  28  53  

3-point goals: SMC 3-13 (K. Boyce 0-3, Lipke 0-2, B. Boyce 2-7, Kessler 1-1), Alma 2-8 (Peacock 0-2, Lounds 0-1, Borcherding 1-2, Way 1-2, Matuzak 0-1). Fouled out: None. Rebounds: SMC 41 (Creachbaum, Bush and K. Boyce 9). Alma 38 (Dettling 13). Assists: Saint Mary's 10 (Lipke 3). Alma 8 (Lounds 3). Total fouls: SMC 13, Alma 16. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd.edu 
only one point and three turnovers in 13 minutes. 
Officials called Notre Dame for 18 fouls to Pittsburgh's nine total personals, and Irish for­ward Jordan Cornette (10 points) fouled out with 4:08 remaining. 
Pittsburgh built its largest lead of the game in the first half, jumping out to a 25-12 advantage on an Aaron Gray jumper with 5:55 left in the half Notre Dame then went on an 18-8 run before Krauser hit a jump shot with 4 seconds left to make the score 35-30 a·t half 
Notre Dame is now 2-4 in its last six conference games after a 4-1 start in Big East play. 
The Irish host Georgetown at the Joyce Center Wednesday at 8 p.m. 
PITTSBURGH 68, NOTRE DAME 66 at Petersen Events Center 
NOTRE DAME (14-7, 6-5) 
Falls 2-11 3-3 8, Francis 0-5 1-2 1, J. Cornette 3-8 1-2 10, Thomas 6-12 0-0 16, Quinn 10-15 0-0 25, R. Cornett 0-1 1­2 1, Latimore 1-4 0-1 2, Carter 1-1 0-0 3. 
PITTSBURGH (17-4, 7-3) Troutman 4-9 5-7 13, Kendall 1-2 2-2 4, Taft 0-3 1-2 1. Krauser 6-14 1-2 16, Graves 4-8 0-0 10, DeGroat 0-0 0-0 0, Ramon 4-11 2-3 13, Benjamin 0-0 0-0 0, McCarrolll-2 0-1 2, Gray 3-5 3-5 9. 
1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  30  36  66  
Pittsburgh  35  33  68  

3-point goals: Notre Dame 6-13 (Quinn 5-6, Thomas 4-5, Cornette 3-7." Carter 1­1, Falls 1-10), Pittsburgh 4-9 (Krauser 3­6, Ramon 3-8, Graves 2-5, Troutman 0­1, McCarroll 0-1). Fouled out: J. Cornette. Rebounds: Notre Dame 31 (Francis 7), Pittsburgh (Taft 6). Assists: Notre Dame 12 (Thomas 7). Pittsburgh 13 (Krauser and Ramon 3). Total fouls: Notre Dame 18, Pittsburgh 9. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Borton 
continued from page 24 
we should have put them away." 
But Notre Dame didn't, and the Hoyas went on a 12-4 run to end the half. including a half­court 3-pointer by guard Kristen Heidloff that cut the lead to 35­26 as time expired in the first half. 
"Once we got the big lead we sort of stopped focusing," senior forward Jacqueline Batteast said. "We were making big men­tal mistakes and giving them lay ups, and, we turned the ball over during that period and let them get back in the game. 
Halftime didn't put an end to Georgetown's hot streak. Led by Mary Lisicky, who had seven of her 16 points in a 7:19 stretch at the start of the second half, the Hoyas went on a 15-8 run and cut Notre Dame's lead to 43-41. 
"She [Lisicky] shot the lights out on us. She made some great shots," McGraw said. 
Nonetheless, a two-point deficit was as close as Georgetown would come, as the Irish regained their earlier form and took control of the game, outscoring the Hoyas 29-17 the rest of the way. 
Notre Dame turned rebound­ing -a season-long weakness -into a strength against Georgetown, taking a 42-21 advantage on the glass. 
Borton Jed the Irish in that category, grabbing a career-high 12 rebounds and putting togeth­er her second double-double of the season. 
"I just got good positioning down low, and we were more aggressive going for the rebound," Borton said. 
Rebounding helped the Irish pull away towards the end, as the team got 12 of its 18 second­chance points in the second half. 
Batteast, who finished with 20 points and seven rebounds, Jed the Irish effort in the second half, helping the team rebuild the lead to a comfortable margin by scoring 12 second-half points. 

Saturday's game was Batteast's lOth 20-point per­formance of the season, and the 31st of her career. Batteast also moved into fourth place on Notre Dame's all-time scoring list, passing Alicia Ratay with 
3:18 left in the second half 
After the game, Batteast down played her individual achievement compared to the team's successes. "It's a great accomplishment but I'm more happy with the 22-3 record that we have this year," she said. "As a team we're doing very well." 
The game marks the ninth time this season four players have scored in double digits. as Borton and Batteast were joined by junior guard Megan Duffy and freshman guard Charel Allen, who had 17 and 14 points, respectively. 
Ultimately, Batteast noted, the Irish have to play more consis­tently from beginning to end. 
"We can't keep opening the door and letting teams think that they can keep playing with us," she said. "We have to take their confidence away, and we let Georgetown come back many times during this game. We should have put them away a Jot sooner." 
The Irish will be back in action Tuesday at No. 19 Boston College. 
NOTRE DAME 72, GEORGETOWN 58 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE DAME (22-3, 10-1) 
Batteast 8-18 4-4 20, LaVere 0-1 0-0 0, Borton 7-10 0-1 14, Duffy 3-8 9-10 17, Gray 2-2 1-2 5, Gaines 0-2 0-0 0. Allen 5­9 4-4 14, Erwin 0-3 2-4 2. 
Georgetown (9-13, 4-7) Tamoulianis 3-11 0-2 6. Marlow 3-7 0-0 
6. HeidlofT 2-8 1-2 7. Carlin 3-7 3-3 11. LeSueur 3-6 4-8 10, LL~irky 6-11 2-2 16. 
Whitt 1-1 0-0 2.  
1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  35  37  72  
Georgetown  26  32  58  

3-point goals: Georgetown 6-16 (Carlin 2­5, Lisicky 2-5, Heidloff 2-6). Notre Dame 2-10 (Duffy 2-7, Batteast 0-3). Fouled out: LeSueur. Rebounds: Georgetown 21 (Marlow 5), Notre Dame 42 (Borton 12). Assists: Georgetown 14 (Lisicky 5), Notre Dame 19 (Duffy 7). Total fouls: Georgetown 14, Notre Dame 12. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

Iff/tAmerican Cancer Society Iff/t Daffodil Days 
$6 for a Bunch of Flowers $4 for a Vase 
Orders Due by Monday, February 28, 2005 Flowers will be delivered Thursday, March 17, 2005 
You can place an order in your dorm, or you can email or campus mail orders to: Michele Taets (mtaets@nd.edu, 307 Badin Hall) (Include your name and address with the amount of bunches/vases) 
~lease make checks payable to: American Cancer Society 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
.... 

Monday, February 14, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT 
PEANUTS 
HERE, SWEET 
BABBOO ... I 8ROU61.JT YOU A VALENTINE 


SCOTT ADAMS 

...THE REVOLUTIONARY NEW PILL THAT TURNS 
YOUR BODY FAT INTO ROLEX WATCHES! 
t 
1 ~ 

~t----1 ~ 
"' 
CHARLES SCHULZ 

l LOVE VALENTINE'S DAY ... IT's 50 ROMANTIC .. 
JUMBLE 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
VALlE 
rJ (]
1 
THIBLE 

j
I I r (] 
www tumble com
tTHINGK t
J I I IJ 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
Wawl Acard, flowers, candy, and dinner 


MANY WIL-L-DO THIS ON YAU:NTINf?S OA.Y. 
Now arrange the Circled letters to form the surprise answer. as suggested by the above cartoon 
Ans: rI I I JIT TO ..rI I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow)I Jumbles: ROUSE FRAUD PELVIS SALOONSaturday's 
Answer: Why the sweet shop went out of business­SALES "SOURED" 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Swear to 5 "What's the 
that can happen?" 10 Nose (out) 14 Ending with hard or soft 
15 Baker who sang "Sweet Love," 1986 
16 Shed one's skin 11 Many a homecoming attendee 18 Work over, as a 
ship 19 Fat of the lamb 20 "Draw one," in 
diner slang 23 Wildebeest 24 English dog 25 Straight from 
the garden 27 Rewrites 30 Broken arms 
may go in them 33 Foul callers 
36 Irrelevant, as a point 38 Jump for joy 39 A barber has to work around it 40 Faculty member 42 Burn ___ crisp 43 First-class 45 Radio tuner 46 Glimpse 47 Gym shoes, for short 
49 "Golden Boy" playwright Clifford 
51 Clothesline alternative 53 Wrestler 57 Companion for Tarzan 59 "Sun kiss," in diner slang 62 Holds close 64 Oak-to-be 65 Gaming table fee 66 Hence 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

WELL, TAKE IT AN"1WA''{, VOU BLOCKHEAD! 
67 four (teacake) 68 Marsh plant 69 Clutter 70 Perfect places 
71 Luke Skywalker's mentor 
DOWN 1 _plane (military craft) 2 Comparison 
shopper's quest 3 Blow one's top 4 Channel 
surfers' gadgets 5 Violation of the Geneva Convention 6 "___'Clock Jump" (1930's 
hit) 7 Jazz phrase 8 Not flexible 9 Idaho produce, 
informally 
10 Ambulance inits. 
11 "Life preservers," in diner slang 12 Secluded valley 13 "_, Brute?" 21 Gave dinner 22 Moray catcher 26 Half a dozen 28 Land hopper 29 Prefix with logical 
31 Ladleful of unappetizing food 
32 Command to Fido 33 Foes of Dems. 
WILLSHORTZ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kelly Hu, 37; Peter Gabriel, 55; Stockard Channing, 61: Jerry Springer, 61 
Happy Birthday: This is the year to concentrate on what you know, not on what you are confused or hazy about. You have to let discipline kad the way. rorce yourself to focus on what is most imponant. Takmg on too much or wastmg lime on something that doesn't work for you will be futile. Success will comL' when you are precise with your plans. Your numbers arc 10, 16, 2g, 33, ~7. ~~ ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Don't hang your head against a wall JUSI hccause someone doesn't agree with you Break away and do your own thmg. You will ­accomplish so much more 11' you tru.,t 111 your own abiliiiL'S .. ••• TAliRliS (April 20-May 211): Don't gel angry: get even by bemg lhc hcs1 you can be. Someone will try to provoke you or get you mvolvcd 111 somcth1ng thai is not your cup of tea. A love mtercst may he h1d111g somcth1ng from you. ••• GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): Love is in a high cycle today. Ciettlng out with friends or becoming involved in somcth1ng you enjoy doing will result 111 an interesting dialogue with someone knowledgeable ahout something that fascinates you. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): What you think and what IS actually happcmng are two different things. You will tend to overreact and even accuse someone of something that may not be warranted. Keep things in perspective or you'll have to answer for your actions. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Not too much will get past you today. You will have a good eye when it comes to a bargain or a good investment. An underhanded individual may try to take advantage of you. Keep your wits about you and you won't be fooled. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll be raring to go and ready for anythmg and everything that comes your way. Changes can be expected, and being diverse will be your thing. A good challenge will lift your spirits and bring you the confidence you need*** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Everything will be a little tense today, but only 
· because you have so much going on around you. The more you do to stay organized, the better you will handle the confusion that is going on around you. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a look around you; if you an.• the only one doing all the work, you may want to make a few changes. Your ability to get things done must not be taken advantage of. Don't help lazy people who don't give back. ••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll have everything under wntrol today. Get involved in a new hobby and you'll probably be able to tum ilmto a lucrative business in the future. You w1ll inOuence someone who can change your l1fe. 
***** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You won't be given all the mformation you require to do what is asked of you. Try not to get angry. Instead work hard and do your best. No one can fault you or criticize you as long as you try •• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You have to do something with all those ideas and inventions you have. Silting 1dle, lelling time pass you by IS a waste of time. Someone special will change your life. Love 1s 1n the p1cture. •••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will be in dreamland today Lc1 your imagination lead you wherever it wants, and the end result will be finding a solution for a problem that has been irking you for some ume. • • • 8irthd;Jy Baby: You are innovative, productive and original. You have the ahility to acdast and get things done. You are adaptable and caring, and you stand by your beliefs and convictions. 
Check 0111 E11ge11ia's Web .l'ites at astroadvice.1·mn 1111d <'llgnlia/a.,·t.I'0/11. 

34 Make, as money  44 Deface  55 Played on stage  
35 "Flop two," in  46 Ocean inlet  56 "I  vacation!"  
diner slang 37 Sen. Cochran of  48 South-of-the­border shawl  57 Throat-clearing sound  
Mississippi  50  Mahal  58 Unadulterated  
40 Capital where the yen is capital 41 Periodic table  52 Went like the wind 54 Sal of "Rebel Without a  60 Written reminder 61 Smile  
listings  Cause"  63 "Send help!"  

For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 0 Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name ------------------------------------­
Address ____________________________________ City ____________ State ____ Zip______ 

~-~--­
' 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, February 14, 2005 
page 24 
N 0 BASKETBALL 
Mixed results 
No. 18 Pittsburgh 
Borton leads ND to staves off Irish run 14-point home win down the stretch over Georgetown 
By PAT LEONARD By ERIC RETTER Associate SportS Editor Sports Writer 
Chris Quinn and Chris Thomas The beginning was promising combined for 41 points, 10 and the final result was as assists and seven rebounds expected, but in between No. 6 
Saturday afternoon, but it was Notre Dame left much to be 
Pittsburgh's star point guard desired. 
who had the final say on his Despite never trailing in a 
home floor. game they eventually won 72­
Carl Krauser sank a runner in 58, the Irish, who improved their the lane with nine seconds left, respective Big East and overall and the Panthers (17 -4, 7-3 Big records to 10-1 and 22-3, strug­East) held onto a two-point lead gled to put away unheralded as Pittsburgh beat Notre Dame Georgetown.{14-7, 6-5) at the Petersen Notre Dame started the game 
Events Center, 68-66. in encouraging fashion, shooting 
Krauser, who fmished with 16 57.1 percent from the field in the points on 6-of-14 shooting, first half and dominating the scored six of his team's last Hoyas at the outset. Behind a eight points. With the loss, Notre strong early inside effort from Dame fell for the second time in senior center Teresa Borton, its final contest of a four-game who had 10 of her 14 points in slate against ranked opponents. the first half, the Irish built their 
Quinn (10-of-15) and Thomas way up to a 31-17 lead with 5:05 (6-of-12) carried the Irish all in the first half. afternoon with solid field goal "J was happy [with the way the shooting, also combining to game started]," Irish coach
Left, Pittsburgh guard Carl Krauser hits a shot over Notre Dame forward Rick Cornett with
make 9-of-11 shots from behind Muffet McGraw said. "I thought
.... 
eleven seconds left to help Pittsburgh beat the Irish Saturday. Right, Notre Dame forward see PANTHERS/page ~2 Teresa Borton scores two of her 14 points en route to a win over Georgetown. see BORTON/page 22 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Scots beat Belles at SMC in final seconds 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
The last time Saint Mary's met Alma, Bridget Boyce hit a buz:t;er-beating jumper to send the game into overtime, where the Belles would eventually fall to the Scots. 
Saturday, it was deja vu as her sister Katie Boyce was the one taking the last-second shot to save the Belles. 
This time there would be no buzzer-beater as Saint Mary's fell by the score of 53-51. 
The Scots led 25-22 at the half and had expanded the lead to 39-33 with just over 12 minutes remaining. Then, the Belles' defense stepped up, and the offense followed suit. 
Saint Mary's drew seven fouls and held Alma to just two baskets during the next six minutes. 
On the offensive side, 
Bridget Boyce, Alison Kessler and Maureen Bush led the comeback, scoring eight, seven and six points, respec­tively, in the second half. 
For the game, Emily Creachbaum, Bush and Katie Boyce each grabbed nine boards, and the team com­bined to pull down 14 of'fen­sive rebounds. The solid work on the offensive glass created many second chances for the offense, which helped dimin­ish the impact of the Belles' 29.5-percent shooting. 
Bush led the team in scoring with 12, and Creachbaum added nine points and one block. 
According to Kessler, the guards were looking to pass the ball to Bush and Creachbaum in the paint. 
"It's always our focus to get the ball down low," she said. 
see ALMA/ page 22 

NO SOFTBALL 
Irish take GRU Classic tournam.ent 
After losing initial two games, ND wins three straight 
By RYAN DUFFY SportS Writer 
It's not how you start, it's how you finish -those are words that have a whole new meaning to Notre Dame after the team rebounded from two opening-round tournament losses this weekend to win three straight games and the Gainesville Regional Utilities (GRU) Classic title. 
Behind a strong pitching performance by junior Heather Booth and a season­high nine hits for the offense, the Irish gave No. 19 Florida its first loss of the season in a 4-2 victory that completed an impressive turnaround and put the team back on track for the 2005 season. 
see CHAMPS/page 21 


Sara Schoonaert hits a single Apr. 6 last season against Purdue. Schoonaert went 2-for-2 with a stolen base and an RBI in Sunday's GRU Classic championship game. 
HOCKEY
Cl) SMC SWIMMING FENCING WOMEN'S TRACK NBAND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
LLI 
Malone retires Co) MIAA Duke Duals Ferris St. 4, ND 3 Notre Dame 7, Irish finish fourth


1m-a z Championships Boston College 0 with JazzFerris St. 4, ND 2 at Windsor 
Notre Dame men and
::5 

Belles finish last in 
Irish drop two games 
Irish lose only one set 
The Mailman calls it= cc season-ending league 
women finish the season Notre Dame women 

at home to Ferris State, 
in impressive shutout of 
quits after 19 years with-championships. 
strong, each going 2-0 in 

stay near middle of 
Durham, N.C. 

extending winless 
Eagles. 

out winning a title. streak to 13. 
pack in six-team meet. 
!; 
page 19 

page 18 page 17page 20 page 18page ?1
Cl) 










