
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Students face eviction from Turtle Creek 
New anzendment hits home; NO calls its involvement unlikely 
By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Editor 
In the first visible fpgal rnsult of last sumnwr's controvm-sial dis­ordorly housn ordinancn amend­nwnt, six Notn• Damn studonts rnturnod from fall hrnak last wnnkmHI to find ovietion notices waiting li1r tlwm at tlwir homos in Turtln Crnnk Apartnwnts. 
Tho six n~sidnnts of thnH~ Turtln Crnnk apartnwnl'> aro now fil{hting a court battln af'tnr host­ing parties the wenkend of Sept. 9-10 where the Indiana State Excise Police issued about 100 underage drinking citations, South Bend Assistant City Attorney Ann-Carol Nash said Tuesday. 

The city sent the students notices to abate about a week af'ter tho citations "as a eonlir­mation that akohol-relatod viola­tions of state law had taken· plaeo," Nash said. 
The evietion notices, liled in eourt Oet. 21, were sent by Turtle Creek Managnment, Nash said. 
.Judy Stowell. director of com­munications for Turtle Creek, dedim~d to comnumt on the situ­ation Tuesday. 
"Turtlo Creek Management 
cannot comment on pending legal actions," she said. "It's a company policy." 
One of the students lacing evic­tion told The Observer Tuesday he was advised by his attorney not to comment until discussions with Turtle Creek attorneys have been completed. The Observer was unable to contaet the other studenl<; Tuesday. 
Nash declined to give a limntable of tho legal proceed­ings. 
For student body pt·esident Dave Baron, it's diflkult to watch the evictions unfi>ld. 
"I was extremely disappoint­ed," said Baron, who fought the amendment during the summer along with a smaU group of stu­dent government representa­tives. "But levietionl is something I had foreseen as being eneour­aged <~s the resolution was passed. 
The amendment, passed by the South Bend Common Council on July 25, tacknd on a list of alco­hol-related violations to the ntr­rnnt list of activities prohibitnd by the city's disorderly house ordi­nance -and allows the city to send tenants a notiee to abate after just one noise violation, while the previous ordinance requirnd thrne. 
If prohibitnd activitins reoccur af'tnr the lirst noticn, the amend­ment gives the eity thn ability to 
see EVICTIONS/page 9 

NeW ticket distribution system to debut 
They are then required to redeem their ticket vouchers for student ticket booklnts this Thursday and Friday. 
Matt Walsh, chair of studnnt govnrnment's University affairs eommittee. said the nnw process has the dual purpose of promot­ing the mon's basknthall pro­gram whiln ensuring a "morn equitable" means of tieknt distri­bution. 
Walsh said tlw new procedure was i m pIn me n u~ d prim a r i I y because student attendance at home basketball games droppnd in comparison to the previous year. Organizers from both stu­dent government and the LeprPchaun L11gion hope the event will boost support for the program. 
"It will hopefully get people pumped up about the upcoming season, and in doing so, get them to attend more home 
see TICKETS/page 4 

Stadiuin restoration approved 
By KATE ANTONACCI A,sociate News Ediwr 

Tho Board of Trustons (BOT) n~enntly approved a rnstoration project to bogin this spring on ono of tho Univnrsity's most wolf-known, and most visitnd, campus spots-Notre Damn Stadium. 
"Notrn Damn Stadium is a legnndary landmark in Anwrican athlnt.ies, home to morn llnisman Trophy win­ners and AII-Anwricans than a n y o t he r fo o t ha II v n n 111~ i n tho nation," ExoeutivP Vicn Prnsident .John Af'llock-<;ravns said in a statnment.. "It is itH'umbnnt upon us to both proservo a building that is l'illnd with many spncial nwm­orins for our athlntns, stu­dents, alumni and fans, and onsut·n its strul'tural intogrity l'or decadPs to eonw. Wn will do !.hat in a way that is archi­teeturally eonsistnnt, tPchni­cally thorough, and l'iseally prudont." 
A four-phase, four-ynar projoct to rnpai r parts of tlw original bowl of Notro Damn Stadium. which has lwnn thn homo of Irish football sinen 19:~0. was dt\onHHI twcnssary by consultants with knowl­edge about stadiums, said .Jamns Lyphout, vice prosidnnt. for busi1wss o1wrations. 
"Tho original snating bowl is 75 ynars old and has btHm exposed to tlw el n men ts, including thousands of freeze/thaw temperature cycltls, during its lifn," 
see STADIUM/page 8 

Basketball vouchers will be handed out at 'Late Night with the Legion' event tonight 
By KATIE PERRY 
A~sistant News Editor 
Dwindling student attendance at mnn's basketball games last year motivated tho significant chango in how students will acquire ticket booklets to watch the Irish in action this season. organiznrs said. 
Contrary to past seasons. stu­dents now havn two responsibili­ties to acquire basketball ticket booklets. 
Students must first attend "Late Night with the Legion," lwld tonight at tho Joyce Center from 10 p.m. to 12 a.m. to pick up a redcemabln ticket voucher. 

Seminar students go on popular Appalachia trip 
and dispersed to I <J differ­to rneeivn one credit. 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
ent. work sites in Tennessee, "It is very important to Nt•wsWritt•r 
Virginia, West Virginia and rncognizn the fact that the 
KPn tueky. CSC sponsors semitHlrS, 
NParly 200 Notre Damn Applieations for thn onn­which allow students to gain students traveled to crt~dit snminar were due the crt~dit hours through course Ap p a I a c h i a d u r i n g fa II t'irst wonk of' thn school ynar work and service-lt~arning b rf' a k t.o participate in tlw and studnnts worn accepted immersion," Miller-McGraw Center for Social Concerns b as 11 d o n t h ni r a e ad e m i c said. "This is dil'fnrnnt from ( c s c ) standing, said Angela a service trip. which is Appalachia See Also Millnr-McGraw, director of strietly voluntnnring." S11111inar, the Appalachia Seminar. Junior site leader Lucy
"Students

making it In addition to attending Summnrville worked prima­thf' mvst partake in thn actual fall break immnr­rily on renovating a housn. popular out sion seminar, studnnts must Summerville, along with Jwr
service 

ol' tlw nxtw­attend pre and post immer­11 group membnrs, also vol­
seminars aver

rinntial and sion classes. During these unteered at Ioeal schools s ~~ r v i I' n -fall break" rlassns, Miller-McGraw said and nursing homes to nxpn­IParning studnnt.s read assigned rinnee the culture of'
page3

courses materials rnlnvant to the Appalachia. 
o l'l'n r n d by subject matt11r and submit a "The trip was excellent.'; tlw CPntPr. writing component. These Summerville said. 
During the immnrsion extra components distin­"Everyotw worked together t•xpnrinncn. t.he students guish the seminars !'rom so well. We were able to Wl'rf' divided into groups of' lwing dPI'ined as a service a p p r o x i m a t n Iy I 0 p 1w p In trip and allow the students see SEMINAR/page 8 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Tales of the Rails 

I took the 11-hour overnight Amtrak #48 train home to Syracuse for fall break. 
When daylight broke through the window after a long night of tossing and turning, I went to the dining 
Katie Perry 

car for coffee and an impromptu lesson in the per­
Assistant 

vasiveness of 
News Editor 

Notre Dame foot­ball. 
"Mind if I join you?" an elderly man asked as he took a seat across from another man of comparable age with large wire-rimmed glasses. 
"You'll have to speak louder-hard of hearing," he said. 
"Mind if I join you?" 

The man with the wire-rimmed glasses nodded as he gazed out the window. 
"I've never been a fan of upstate," he said as we sped away from the Buffalo station. 'Tm from the city-New York that is." . 
"Well you must be quite the mover," his new friend said with a grin. 
"If that were the case I wouldn't get mugged so often," the man with the wire-rimmed glasses said. 
"Maybe it's time to relocate to some­place safer," suggested the other man. "Oh no I couldn't. I've never lived anywhere else." "New York is not such a bad place to be stuck," the other man said. 
'Til drink to that," the man with the wire-rimmed glasses said. 'Til drink to anything. On third thought, I'll drink anything -and it tastes better when someone else picks up the tab!" 
"I've heard that one before," the man replied. 
"Well pin a rose on your nose," the man with the wire-rimmed glasses said as he reached for the newspaper and thumbed through to the sports section. 
"Hey, Notre Dame," he shouted across the aisle to me. 
I put my coffee down and looked up. Either my sweatshirt and baseball cap gave me away, or he was one of the 50 people in my car who wanted to throw me onto the tracks at 4:30 a.m. after an unfortunate "bag shift" set off my singing ND keychain. 
"Tough loss kid, but no reason to hang your head," he said. "To tell you the truth, I never thought I'd see the return of Irish football -not like this at least." 
The other agreed and the two men spent the next hour gushing over do­you-remember-when's and how­about-that-season's. They were imme­diately lost in a sea of nostalgia. 
It's then I realized how much Notre Dame football is about history and tradition. It's about something so uni­versal and so American that it gives apple pie and Jimmy Stewart a run for their money. 
"It's good to be back, ain't it kid?" the man in the wire-rimmed glasses said. 
I smiled and handed him my musi­cal keychain. Suddenly, the fight song filled up the cabin as we chugged toward New York -although still very much in a South Bend state of mind. 
Contact Katie Perry at 
kperry5@nd. edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CoRRECTIONS 

The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­tion and srrives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
--------~--------------------------~ 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, October 26, 2005 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT CLASS DO YOU WISH WAS OFFERED? 








Becca Teeter Okechi Ogboukin Jason Dehaemers Mike Podgajny John Duffy Chris Adam 
sophomore junior freshman sophomore junior senior Cavanaugh Cavanaugh Sarin Zahm Sarin Keough 
"Dating "The Art of ''Tetherball. ,, "Lon Record "The Art of "Organizational 
Casually 101. ,, Killing Bugs 
and How Not to be Afraid of Them." 
Power Exploring John Leadership and Conditioning Duffy from Back Supervision ... 
101. 


lives. Froning said she was asleep on a couch last Thursday morning when her cat jumped on her, waking her up to a house full of smoke. 
Froning said she called her son, Jamie, a Nora Springs volunteer firefight­er who works for Mason City. 
Jamie Froning said he told his mom to get out of the house and then called the fire department. 
The house was full of smoke when he showed up, he said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Potty peeper escapes jail sentence 
NORTH CONWAY, N.H.­A Maine man arrested after he was found peering at a teenage girl at a rest­stop outhouse pleaded no contest to criminal tres­pass, and a judge urged him to seek help for what­ever drove him to climb into the waste-filled toilet. 
Gary J. Moody was given a 30-day sentence that will be suspended if he main­tains good behavior for two years. In exchange for his plea, disorderly con­duct charges against Moody will be dropped, as well, if he stays out of trouble. 

Moody, 45, of Pittston, Maine, was arrested on June 26 after a 14-year-old girl reported hearing a noise and then seeing a face looking up at her from the pit toilet on U.S. Forest Service property in Albany. 
District Court Judge Pamela Albee cited Moody's public humiliation from the ensuing publicity in choosing not to send him to jail. 
Woman says cat saved her from fire 
NORA SPRINGS, Iowa ­Linda Froning's cat may have shared one of its nine 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
::c 
!;( 
LLI 
3: 
..... 


~ 
~ 
(,) 0 

HIGH 52 HIGH 38 HIGH 51 HIGH 55
...I LOW 42 LOW 30 LOW 36 LOW 34 
to Front.,, like the Purdue quarterback.,, 
IN BRIEF 
Welsh Family Hall will be hosting Father Eugene Gorski for a discussion called "Experiencing God's Pres­ence" at 7 p.m. in Welsh's Family Room today. 
Imam Feisal Rauf, presi­dent of the American Sufi Muslim Association, will give the lecture "Healing the Divide between Islam and the West" today at 12:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies Audito­rium. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club Fall Concert will take place at 8 p.m. Friday. in Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The concert is presented by the Department of Music. Tickets are $3 for students, faculty, staff and senior citi­zens. 
Archbishop J. Michael Miller, secretary of the Vatican's Congregation for Catholic Education, will pres­ent the 2005 Terrence Keeley Vatican Lecture at 8 p.m. Oct. 31 in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. 
Former Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz will speak on Dec. 15 at Goddard Auditorium on Earlham College's campus. The event is presented by Wernle Children's Home of Richmond, Ind., a nonprofit behavioral healthcare facility. Tickets are $40. For tickets or more information, call Todd Knight at (765) 939-4576. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 
~ 


HIGH 59 HIGH 61 LOW 37 LOW 44 
Atlanta 61 I 40 Bos~on 51 I ~9 Chicago 54 I _40 Denver 68 I 44 Houston 73 I 53 Los Angeles 66 1 55 Minneapolis 55 1 35 New York 53 I 40 Ph1ladelph1a 54 I 40 Phoemx 84 I 62 Seattle 55 I 42 St. Louis 58 I 37 Tampa 71 1 52 Washington 59 1 41 
Wednesday, October 26, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Students partake in service setninars over fall break 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
New~ Writer 
Whiln sonw studPnts may vinw fall hrnak 's purposn as rPst and n.Jaxation, many othnrs usi~ tlwir l.inw oil' to hnttor thmnsolvns and thnir rommunitios through volun­tonr work. 
Tlw Cm>tnr I(Jr Social Concerns (CSU oll'nrs studnnts a varioty of sPminar options that allow stu­dnnl'i to partiripatn in a wnnklong sorvir11-lnarning imnwrsion during brnak. This ynar, tho CSC oll'nrnd llw CospPI of l.ifn Snminar, Washington Snminar on llealth Carn in Amnrica, Global llnalth lnitiativn Seminar. Cultural Divnrsity Snminar and the Gullah Snminar. along with their most popular Appalachia Seminar. 
Sophomorn political science major Katin Mcllugh went to Washington. D.C. as part of the Washington Seminar on llealth earn in Amnrica with 17 othnr studnnts to Iiston to political reprn­sentatives and indnpendent groups discuss issues surrounding proscription drug plans and rising COSL'i. 
"Most [students[ who went on 
this trip are pro-med or biology m<~jors who wanted to liguro out how health care issues would affect them in the future," Mellugh said. "I went because I .wanted to learn more about the issue, and elarily whnro I stand on [government! prescription plan 
policies." 

The CSC seminars arn not stu­
dents~ only opportunity to volun­
teer during fall break. 
ACE staff representative Tony 
DeSapio worked with 17 Notre 
Dame students to help reconstruct 
HE CHUR-.CH AND SOCIALACTION VR..BAN PLUN<::;E) 
4H IH mr immersion in the sites and sounds of poverty close to home 
R..<::;ANIZIN<::;, POWER.. AND HOPE 
l·:xperience (> days of the Gospel in acti1 m 1m the streets of Chicago 
LY CR..OSS MISSION IN EDUCATION 
\\'1 >rk with the outreach and education efforts of the Congregation of the f loly Cross in Arizona 

Deal with immigration and related issut's on the Texas/1\ft'xico border 
l'or more information or to register online: t tp: /I s1 JCia!C< lllCt'rns.nd.cdu 

THE SPIRI 
www.goldwell.com 
live ACE schools in the towns of' Biloxi and Pa'icagoula, Mississippi. 
"Students took away a lot from this pn~jcct," DeSapio said. "Thny witnessed what people are saeri­l'icing to keep those schools going." 
The group volunteered at schools locatnd further from the coast that had rocovnn~d l'rom Katrina's wrath. They also aided in tho rebuilding process for schools that were completnly destroyed. 
Due to the success of' this trip, ACE has committed to doing a similar trip each fall in one of the :~0 cities where thPir schools am located. 
"Our program really makes an impact when lstudmll'>l conws into an area that can use our lwlp," f)eSapio said. 
Sophomorn David (;runner ti~lt a strong urge to volunteer in New Orleans after hn witnessed thn damagn donn to t.hn anm. lin was able to eomplntPiy gut and rnpair a church in New Orh~ans with a group of' volunteers from his homn state oi'Washington. 
The group dwsn to n~pair thn dlllreh to give mmmunity nwm­bers a focal point of' hopP wlwn IWI~rything nlsn senms hopnless. 
"The trip was amazing. It was a very humbling exp1~rienee to sen all of the devastation down in Nnw Orleans. lking abln to hnlp in any way possible was a blnssing," Gruennr said. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO I @saintmarys.edu 

Notre Da111e tea111 wins 'Fed Challenge' 
By SARAH WHEATON 
News Writer 

Five Notrn Dame undergradu­ate students outdid a Indiana University team to win the Oct. 17 Indiana state "Fed Challenge," which tested their knowledge of how the Federal Hnsnrvn en~atns policy to li>stnr a strong and stabln economy 
The challengn, which is a pre­liminary competition testing stu­dents' knowledge, took place at the D1~troit Branch of the Federal Heservo Bank of Chicago. 
The students, Leah Cogsw111l, Claire Gasperntti, Mark I Iockley, Daniel Klute and Jnnna Leary, wem coached to victory by Notrn Dame assodate prof(~ssor ol' eco­nomies and policy studies Dr. Frank Bonello. 
The team had 20 minutes to present their analysis of the United States' current economic 
and 
L 
chosl) loam mmnbors and invitnd all 11eonomks m:~jors to apply. Tho 12 individual applicants WPnt through the samn pn1sm1tation and questioning process that tlw actual eompntition eonsisl'i of' and worn narrownd down to tho fivn tmun nwmbnrs. 
This is only tho sneond yoar Notro Damn has sponsornd a team. Bonollo said, strnssing tho advantages of' student participa­tion in the compntit.ion. 
"Wn wantod to bn involwd in the competition because wo boliov11 that it provides studnnts with an excnllont and unique oxtraeurrku­lar educational opportunity," ho said. 
Many studenl'i bnnune involv11d with the Fnd Challnnge to loarn mori~ about monetary policy and to konp tlwir knowlmlgn of' tho cur­rnnt neonomic system up-to-datn. 
"My participation in tlw Fod challnngo will help nw with my rosearch skills, dnductivn mason­ing and public speaking skills regardless of' my f'uturn earner," said Cogswoll, a sPnior economics and matlwmatics major who has participatml in the l'.hallnngo f'or two ynars. 
Studenl'> said being on tlw tnam rnquirnd a big limo commitment to prnparn filr the challnngn. 
"Wo preparnd by nwoting at loast oncn a wnPk as a tnam, work­ing togntlwr on our oconomic analysis, giving practice prnsnnta­tions and answ1~ring quostions from guost judg11s," Cogswell said. 
Making surn tim prnsnntat.ion is knpt <L'i up-to-datn as possihiP is an important aspnct of t.lw dmllnngn, Klute said. 

"Wn had to n1ad just about nvnry nnws article about tlw economy that wn r.ould lind," said Klutn. a snnior nconomics tm~jor. 
ny Winning t.Jw stall' n!tllpPti­tion, NotrP Damn's loam has oarrwd tlw right to l'.ompdn at t.lw dist.rirt rompPtition in Chicago on Nov. 7. Tlw tnam will compPt.n against. four ot.lwr statn chafnpi­ons. with thl' winrwr going to com­pPln at t.lw national lnvPI in Washington. D.C. 
Moody's lnvPstor SnrvicPs will award rash prizes at tlw national compPtition. Tlwy haw indimtPd that tlwy will award $2!i.OOO to tlw first plan1 I Pam. $1 !i,OOO to thP sPrond plan• t.nam and $7.!i00 to tlw third plan• tPam. Tlw prizPs an• to lw split lll'tWPPll tlu• winning tPam and Uwir school. 

PROFESSIONAL HAIRCARE
0 2005 KPSS, Inc. 

Contact Sarah Wheaton at swheaton@nd.cdu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 26, 2005 
Tickets 
continued from page 1 
games ... It will hopefully lead to more student tickets being released in upcoming years," Walsh said. "We also hope the new procedure will allow the most dedicated fans a greater chance to secure tickets." 
Walsh said during the sum­mer, student government members researched other peer institutions to see how they approached similar issues with basketball pro­grams and ticket distribution. 
"We found that NO was pretty much the only large [NCAA Division II school that did not do an event such as the one [tonight]." he said. · 
The first annual "Late Night with the Legion" is a free event that will feature the ofl'icial Notre Dame men's basketball walk-on tryouts, an opportunity to compete in a shooting contest with the players and a venue to inter­act with team members and coaches. 
Vouchers will be distributed on a first come, first serve basis at the end of the event. In order to ensure those who arrive first receive vouchers, wristbands will be distributed when students enter the event at Gate 11. 
Students are allowed to bring up to two IDs, including their own, to obtain two vouchers. 
A voucher received at the event will guarantee a student ticket booklet -as well as a complimentary Leprechaun Legion T-shirt -granted the student redeems it Thursday and Friday at the Joyce Center Gate 10 box office between 7 a.m. and 4 p.m. 

· Students may bring up to four vouchers and IDs redeemable for up to four student ticket booklets. But organizers said the availability of these vouchers will be limited. "Many students have voiced concern that more tickets should be made available solely for students to attend home games," Walsh said. "However, since attendance dropped [last yearJ. the Ticket Office -rightfully so -was not going to give out more student tickets." As in previous years, 2,700 vouchers -and ultimately ticket booklets -will be available at the event. Walsh said it is important for stu­dents to note that Notre Dame distributes "many" more stu­dent tickets than "almost every" D-1 school. 
A big problem in years past. especially last year, was that many students purchased a ticket booklet for the entire season but only attended a few games, Walsh said. 
"[For that reason) we are going to implement a ticket share program this year, hopefully online at ndbay.com, but [student government] is still working on the details," he said. 
Walsh said student govern­ment collaborated with the Leprechaun Legion, head bas­ketball coach Mike Brey and the ticket office in the organi­zation and implementation of the new ticket process. overall desire to put on such ous years, student seating will 

"The new system is a result an event from all parties be via general admission of research by some of my involved," Walsh said. within designated student sec­committee members, discus­The Irish will tip off the sea­tions. sion at Student Senate last son on Nov. 3 at a home open­year, discussion and planning er exhibition game against Contact Katie Perry at within my committee and an Lewis University. As in previ-kperryS@nd.edu 

Study in Notre Dame's International Study Programs in 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Thursday, October 27, 2005 6:30 PM 
129 DeBartolo 

Pre-med program fall semester in Puebla Engineering and business courses in Monterrey Elementary Spanish in Monterrey Summer Program for Engineers and others In Puebla 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: NOVEMBER 15 FOR FALL, SPRING AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2006-7, MARCH 1 FOR SUMMER 2006, MAY 1 FOR SPRING 2007 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: www.nd.edu/....,intlstud/ 




GREAT liFESTYLE 
Turtle Creek Aartments 

Adjacent to Campus I 
Remodeled Apartments Available www.campuscribs.net 
1.866.395.4201 
171 0 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 





CLOSEST TO CAMPUS 
~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­




ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, October 26, 2005 CotvH'I LED FR0,\1 THE ()BsERVEn:s w1 RF su~v1c:Es page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Rice advises Isreal to loosen border 
OTT/\Wi\ -Snerntary of Statn Condoleezza Hkn suggnstml Tuosday that Isnwl must loosen controls at bordnr 1:rossings to allow frnnr pas­sago liJr Palnstinians and nconomie devnlopmnnt in arnas that would one day bn an indnpondent l'alnstinian statn. 
Hi1:n spoko in the Canadian eapital a day aftnr rnporlo.; that a top Midoast envoy had critidzod Israd for moving too slowly on nngotiations to op1•n honlors around tho ( ;aza Strip. 
lsnwl withdrnw troops and settlers !hun (;aza over tho surnnwr aftor noarly :m ymtrs. Thn tnr­ritory. now undnr l'alnstinian control, is on tho ot.lwr side of lsraol from tho largor l'alostinian­controllod aroas of tho West Bank, and l'alostinians must cross lsraol or go through l•:gypt to pass botwoon tho two amas. 
U.N. threatens Syria with sanctions 
UNITI.:D Ni\TIONS-Tho Unitml States, 1:raru:1~ and Britain on Tuosday domandnd that Syria dotain gowrnnwnt ollkials suspnctod of involvnnwnt in tlw assassination of a forrnor I.Pbannsn primn ministPr and 1msuro tlwir roop­Pralion with a U.N. prolw or liu:n possiblo sane­lions. 
Thl' call was ronlainnd in a strongly wordod dral't n•solution that ordnrs Syria to mak1~ tho ollirials or individuals "fully and unconditionally availahln" to a U.N. prolw that has 1u:cusod Syria of ohstnwting ito.; work. 
ThatlanguagP was a rloar attPrnpt to prnssurn Syria into giving thl' li.N.-backml investigators arross to top snrurity ollkials-possibly indud­ing tlw hrotlwr-in-law of l'n~sidnnt Bashar i\ssad -who may haw bPPn involwd in llariri's slaying. 
Mexico warns of flu crisis possibility 
OTT/\Wi\ -t'vkxiro's lwalth ministPr urgnd woalthy nations to lwlp providn flu drugs to tl111 dPwloping world. saying Tw~sday that thl' divido lwtwi'Pil tlw rirh and tlw poor would bo eata­strophir in tlw nwnt of a global bird flu pandmn­il:. 
"I think tlw Pthiral. tlw political. tlw futtrrn sl'nrrity implications of tlw situation wlwrn only thl' WPalthy eountrins have 1u:n~ss to vaccines and drugs would lw unimaginabln," Julio Frnnk told ThP i\ssodatl'd Pmss on tlw sidolinos of a ronli•rPru·n to pn•parP lill' a global flu pandnmic. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Congress debates torture ruling 
Wi\SIII NGTON -CongrPssional rwgotia­tors an• ('poling lwat from tlw White llouso and ronstitru•nts as tlwy considPr wlwt.hnr to hark a SnnalP-approvnd han on torturing dPtairwns in U.S. nrstody or wt~aknn thn pro­hibition, as thn Whitn llousn pn~fnrs. 
LPd by VkP PrnsidPnt Dick Clwnny, tlw Bush administration is floating a proposal that would allow thP prnsidnnt to nx1•mpt t·ovPrt agPnts outsidl' thn l>nfnns1• I>Ppart.nwnt from llw ban. 
MPanwhiln, sonw rwwspap.-rs arP calling for lawmaknrs to support Snn . .John McCain's provision thai would bar llw usn of "enwl, inhuman or dPgrading lrPatmnnt or punish­IIIPnt" against anyorw in U.S. govPrnmnnt nrstody, rPgardlnss of wlwrn they an~ lwld. 
Group airs anti-Miers commercial 
Wi\SIIINGTI lN-i\ mnsnrvat.ivn gmup oppos­ing llarrint Minrs bought $250,000 of tnhwision and radio tinw Ttwsday to broadcast an advnr­tismrwnt. nationwidn calling for l'rnsidnnt Bush to withdraw his nomirwn f(u· thn Suprmnn Court. 
Thn Whitn llousP said it was standing bnhind Mi1~rs. "Siw is going to be going bnfore the Snrmtn .ludieiary Commillnn in lnss than two wonks," Bush spoknsman Seott McClnllan said. "Siw looks forward to answering tlwir questions. i\nd I think that pnopln should not try to rush to judgnwnt on it." 
Death toll in Iraq reaches 2,000 
President Bush warns the public and the military to expect rrwre casualties 
Associated Press 
Bi\GIID/\D, Iraq -The American military dnath toll in the Iraq war reached 2,000 Ttwsday with tho announcmnents ol' t.hrnp, morP deaths, includ­ing an i\rmy sergeant who dind of wounds at a mili­tary hospital in Texas and two Marines killed last wonk in fighting west of Baghdad. 
Thn 2,000 mark was roached amid growing doubts among the i\mnrkan public about thn Iraq conflict, laundwd in March 200:~ to destroy Saddam II ussnin 's allngnd wnapons of mass dnstruc­tion. None was over found. 
In Washington, thn U.S. Snnatn obsnrvnd a monHmt or silnnco in honor· of tho fallon 2,000. "Wn own tlwm a dnop debt of grati­lLHin for thnir couragn, for their valor. for thnir stn~ngth. for thnir l:ommit­nwnt to our country," said Hnpubliean Majority Lna<h~r Bill Frist. 
Critics of the war also acknowlP<Igt•d thn sacri­l'icn. IWI'n as tlwy quns­t.ionl'd tho polkios of thoso who IPad it. 
"Our arnwd forces aro serving ably in Iraq undPr onormously d i fl'icu It ci r­rumstanens, and tlw policy of our govnrnnwnt must bn worthy of thoir sacril'ico. what tho futuro holds in al-Qaida in Iraq -dainwd Marirws in l'ighting last llnfortunatPiy, it is not, and Iraq," Byrd said. responsibility for Monday's wnPk in a village 25 milos tlw i\nwrkan poopln know Prn!>ident Bush warnod suicide attaeks against w1~st of Baghdad. ThosP it." said Sen. hlward tlw U.S. public to braen for hotels housing Wnstnrn announcnmnnts brought KeniHHiy, the morn casualties in tho light journalists and contractors tho U.S. dmtth toll to 2,000, Massachusetts I >nmoerat. against "as brutal an in Baghdad, as wnll as sui­according to l'igu rns eom­
Snn. Hobnrt Byrd. a vPL­nnnmy as wn havo ever cide bombings Tuesday in pill'd by Thn i\ssocialiHI nran I>Pmorrat from West faced, unconstrained by northern Iraq. Prnss. Virginia, said i\nwricans any notion of common In tlw latnst rasualty It was unelPar who was should PXpPd ::many morn humanity and by the ruins reports, tlw I'entagon said tlw 2,000th s1~rvico nwm­losses to come. of warfare." Staff Sgt. Gnor·gn T. bnr to die in Iraq sir11:e tlw 
"More than 1:{5,000 U.S. "No one should undnrns­i\lnxander .Jr .. :{4, of U.S. military ortnn dPiays troops remnin in Iraq. tinratn tho diff'icultins KillnPn. Tnxas. diPd dnalh lllliJOUIJCI'IIJI'lltS until Thny did not ask to b1~ sent alwad," Bush said in a Saturday in San Antonio of families an~ nolil'iPd. On to war, but oach day. they spnneh Ttwsday bnforn the wounds sull'Prl'd Oct.. 17 in Monday, for nxamplo, tho carry out their duty whiln .Joint i\rmod Forens a blast in Samarra, a rity U.S. command anHOUIII'ml risking tlwir liws. It is only OITicnrs' Wivos' lundwon (,(} mill's north of tlw Iraqi that an unidPntiliPd Marini' rnasonabln that tlw in Washington. 1:apital. was killl'd in action llw day i\nwrican pnopln, and tlwir i\s a sign of thosn !'hal­Iiarlil'l' Tw~sday, tlw U.S. lwforP _ aftPr tlw dPaths of nloctnd rnpresnntativns, lnng!~s. orw of Iraq's most m i I ita r y ann o u n c P d tiH~ tlw thrPn snrvien mPmbPrs ask morn qunstions about ruthlnss terror groups -dnaths of two unidnntiliPd I'Pportnd Tunsday. 


UNITED STATES 

Counsel turns focus to Cheney 
Associated Press 
Wi\SIIINCTON -Thn Whitn llouse on Tuesday sidostnpJwd questions about wlwtlwr Vien Prnsidnnt l>iek Chnnny J>aSSIHI on to his top aidn tlw idontity ol' a Cli\ orlieer central to a I'1Hinral grand jury pmlw. 
Notos in tho hands ol' a l'ednral prosecutor suggnst that Chnnny's chin!' ol' starr. I. L1~wis "Scooter" Libby, first !ward ol' tho Cli\ oiTieer from Chenoy himsoll', The New York Times reported in Tunsday's edi­tions. 
i\ f!~deral prosecutor is invnstigat­ing whether the offieer's identity was improperly disclosed. 
Tlw Timns said notns of a prnvi­ously undiselosnd .lurw 12. 2003, 1:onvnrsatim1 bntwnnn Libby and Clwnny appnar to differ from Libby's grand jury tnstimony that lw first hoard of Valnrin l'lanw from journal­ists. 
"This is a qunstion !'Plating to an ongoing in.vHstigation and wn·n~ not having any furthor (:omnwnt on the invnst.igation whiln it's ongoing," Whitn llouse prnss snerotary Scott MeCidlan said. 
Pressed about Cheney's knowlndge about tho Cli\ oflknr, McClellan said: "I think you'rn prejudging things and speculating and wn'ro not going to projudge or spnculato about things." 
MeClnllan said Chnnoy -who par­tidpatl'd in a morning video eonl'er­erH:o on tho Florida hurricarw from Wyoming, whnr·n lw is speaking at a University ol' Wyoming dinner tonight -is doing a "gn~at joh" as vien pn~sidnnt. Tlw spokesman also said Chenny's public comnwnts havn always bnen truthful. 
Tlw Nnw York Tinws idnnt.ilind its sourens in tho story as lawynrs involved in thn casn. 
Libhy has enwrgnd at the cnntnr of Spoeial Counsel Patrirk Fitzgnrald's criminal invostigation in rncnnt weeks because of thn Clwney aidn's eon vn rsati ons about I' Ianw with Times reporter Judith Millor. 

page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, October 26, 2005 


cingular 

Mishawaka/South Bend 
University Park Mall tlor~ied in ihf• f()()d Courll [574) 243-8016 


The amount of music your ROKR El can hold depends on the compression rate ot your songs and the amount of media stored on your phone. The Motorola ROKR El is aproduct of Motorola, Inc. Motorola and the Stylized MLogo are registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. All other product or service names are the property of their respective owners. ©Motorola, Inc. 2005. TM &© 2005 Apple. The iTunes and iTunes logo are trademarks of Apple. By using the iTunes software you are agreeing to the software licenses in this package. Cingular and the graphic icon are trademarks of Cingular Wireless LLC. Coverage not available in all areas. ©2005 Cingular Wireless. All rights reserved. 

~------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, October 26, 2005 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

10,377.87 -7.13
}ones., 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volur 1,284 160 !!!5 2,343,216,04(J 
AMEX 1,639.33 +18.16 NASDAQ 2,109.45 -6.3R NYSE 7,361.84 -12.69 S&PSOO I, 196.54 -2.R4 
. ().()()
NIKKB(Tokyo) 13,280.62 FTSE IOO(London) 5, I R 2. I 0 -25.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ)  -0.38  -0.15  39.  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +0.04  +0.0 I  23.  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  +1.17  +0.15  12.  
NOVAVAX INC (NVAX)  + 33.25  + 1.38  5.  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -0.23  -0.04  17.  


30-YEAR BOND  + 1.14  +0.53  47.  
10-YEAR NOTE  + 1.39  +0.62  45.1  
5-YEAR NOTE  +1.48  +0.64  43.  
3-MONTH Bill  + 1.91  +0.72  38.  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +2.12  62.4  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +7.70  474.7  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.60  88.3  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  115.25  
EURO  0.821  
POUND  0.561  

IN BRIEF 
Crude oil prices rise as degrees fall 
NI·:W YOHK -Crude-oil futures leapt $2 past 
$h2.50 a bamd amid a cold snap in the U.S. 
Nortlwast and a mport that ConocoPhillips Inc. 
lost powPr at a Nnw Jersey refinery. Natural gas 
prices snt a roeord. 
While the power outage lasted less than an hour. ConocoPhillips said its 23S,OOO-barrel-a­day Bayway refinery in Linden, N.J., still doesn't know whon it can restart. 
The rt~linmy news in particular sent relined­
product futurns higher, with heating oil leading 
tlw gains. 
"I think that added to the momentum, but we wnre aln~ady going up when that came out," sai.d Phil Flynn. a broker for Chicago-based /\laron Trading Corp. "It shows that the supply­and-diHlHUHI balanCI) is still so tightly wound that any disruption" can send prices higher. 
Bend11nark light, sweet crude oil for l>ncmnlwr settled up $2.12 at $62.44 a barrel on tlw New York Mercantilo Exchange. 
I llmting oil for Novnm her rose more than I 0 1~1mts on tho day to touch a high $1.90 a gallon. It settlnd at $1.SS99 a gallon, up 9.26 cents. 
(;asolirw f(lr the same month rose morn than 9 cnnts to post a high of' $1.6750 a gallon, dosing up 7.22 cents at $1.6538 a gallon. 
New car designs use alternative fuels 

Cl liB/\, Japan -The usually futuristic "con­cnpt ears" at the Tokyo auto show are taking on an all-too-real immediacy this year amid soaring oil pricns, with ecologically-friendly autos grabbing tlw limelight. 
Thn ovnrriding message at the Tokyo Motor Show, OJWning Saturday to the public, is that gas-guzzlnrs must make way for green cars that poflut1~ loss and rely lnss on shrinking sup­plins of f'ossil f'uels. 
Hnportnrs got a preview Wednesday of' the show's ofTorings of experimental ecological ears galorn, including a vehide that switches back and forth lwtwnnn an electric motor and a hydrog1m-pownrPd enginn from Mazda Motor Corp. and a fuel cell small ear from Suzuki Motor Corp. 
Auto of'fieials say it's urgent to develop ears that run on rwds otlwr than gasolinn. Crude oil pricns have doubled over the last five years as the global oil supply struggles to keep up with ballooning demand. 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS 
page 7 
Bernanke will set inflation rates 
Prospective chairman believes interest ranges will boost consumer confidence 
Associated Press 

W/\SIIINGTON -Ben Bnrnanke may bring more openness to the secretive Federal lh~snrve by spelling out what the central bank thinks is an acceptable range of inflation. /\nd that could help consumers and investors b1~tter understand wlwrn interest-rate policy is !wading. 
Whilo Bernanko sought to assure Wall Strm~t that lw would continue Fed Chairman Alan Creenspan's policies if con­firnwd to rnplaee him, this is an area of some dis­agroenwnt. between them. Crnnnspan bnlioves setting targds rnd ucns the Fed's lkxibility. 
Contral banks in Britain, Australia and other eoun­t.rios have adoptml inllation targnts. Although the Fod hasn't, members pay dosn attnntion to inl'lation baronwtnrs. 
Supportors say if tho Foci wnro to adopt a target it would provide Wall Street and Main Stroot with a eloarnr picture of where t.lm economy is headnd, so investors can adjust tlwir investments accordingly. 
Clnaror signals from the Fed about inflation, eco­nomic eonditions and intl)r­cst rates can holp shape public and investor percep­tions and assist the Fed in well, without the costs idea that targeting locks in lie said investor eonf'i­attaining its goals of nur­feared by those concerned the Fed in a 2000 pince lw dencn may actually be turing a dimato where the about the potential loss of co-wrote with other aca­boosted if' the Fed publicly economy ean grow, flexibility," Bernanke said demics that appeared in nxplains why a target was employment can flourish in a 2003 speech, when he the Wall Street Journal, missed and how the r.entral and inflation is under con­was a Fed governor. "Inflation targeting dons bank plans to get th1~ eeon­trol, Bernanko has argued. Bernanke was at the Fed not mandate that thP een­omy baek on track. 
"An incremental move for nearly three years tral bank maintain the !\ target whore "core" toward inflation targeting, before taking his current announced inflation target inflation -excluding food in the f'orm of the job as chairman of the level at all times, eome hell, and enorgy priens -hov­announcement of a long­White House's Council of high water or severe eco­ers in an annual range of' I run inflation objectivP, Economic Advisers, where nomic shocks," wrote perennt to 2 percent might might help tho Fed commu­he serves as the president's Bernanke, then a Princeton bo a reasonable bound, nicate better and perhaps chief eeonomist. University economics pro­Bnrnanke has indicated in improve policy decisions as Bernanke rejeeted the fessor. the past. 


Senate cuts Medicare spending 
Associated Press ago today, the levees broke. /\nd Grassley had to maintain support 
eight weeks later, I cannot in good from all 11 committee Hepublkan to 
W/\SIJINGTON-!\ Hepublican-led conscience join in cutting health ensure tho measure's passage. But effort to slow spending on health care, when Congress has left the some wantod morn significant care programs f'or the poor, elderly health care needs of Katrina's vie­reductions in Medicaid than others and disabled survived a stern test in tims unaddressed," said Sen. Max were willing to aeeept. the Senate Tuesday. Baucus of Montana, the top In the nnd, tho legislation the 
That chamber's Finance Democrat on the Finanee panel approved Tuesday would Committee, voting along party lines, Committee. n~duee Modicaro sponding by about approved legislation that would trim Hepublieans said they weren't $5.S billion over f'ivn years and overall spending on Medicare and thrilled with the bill, either, mainly Medicaid by about $4.3 billion dur­Medicaid by about $10 billion over because they said it did not go far ing that tirno. five years. The committee's 11 enough to overhaul Modicaid, the Even with those reductions, how­Hopublicans supported the legisla­nation's health insurance program ever, thn Congn~ssional Budget tion. The committee's nine for the poor. But they rejected the Of1icn projeets that financing of the Democrats opposed it. notion that beneficiaries would get a two programs would grow substan­
In doing so, Democrats eit(id what reduced level of care as a result of tially over tho corning five years. thoy believed was inadequate assis­the changes they approved. The CBO predicts Medicaid spnnd­tance for victims of' l!urricano "We are not cutting health care ing will inereasn from about $192 Katrina. In particular, Democrats services to the beneficiaries," said billion in 2006 to about $260 billion wanted to temporarily extend Sen. Hick Santorurn, H-Pa. "Wo have in 2010. Mediearn SJHHHiing will Medicaid coverage to thousands of squeezed some f'raud out. We have inen~ase from about. $:{S5 billion in people currently ineligible for the squenzcd providors." tlw coming year til about. $525 bil­program evnn though thny h<JV" lost The legislation rel1eetnd the diffi­lion in 20 I 0. Tlw inernasns n•flect their jobs and their homo. cult balancing aet facing tlw com­growing hnalth earP costs and a 
"Eight wneks ago ynsterday, mittee's chairman, Son. Charles growing number of' JJPople hneoming Katrina made landfall. Eight weeks Grassley, H-Iowa. eligibln for tlw programs. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, October 26, 2005 
Republicans support bill cutting Medicare 
the University statement. condition for many years." "Fans can rest assured Lyphout said that cost pro­
Stadiun1 

that, while these repairs jections for the project are continued from page 1 must be made in a timely still being developed. 
manner, the stadium itself is "A portion of it will be paid Lyphout said. "Over time in quite safe," Doug Marsh, with reserves established in this climate, structures such University architect, said in an athletic facilities renewal as the stadium require main­the statement. "The upcom­fund," he said. tenance." ing project is a proactive From 1995-97, the 
The freeze/thaw damage effort to ensure that this his-University expanded the sta­has led to the toric facility dium to increase seating deterioration of continues to capacity from 59,075 to the original seat­serve the 80,795 by adding a new
"Fans can rest
ing bowl and the University !'or brick bowl around the old necessary repairs assured that, while many years to structure, the press release will be made these repairs must come." said. over the next few Lyphout said "We wish to maintain Notre
be made in a
years, Ly ph o u t the University Dame Stadium for the long­said. timely manner, the worked with a tnrm l'uturfl and these steps "In this case, variety of' con­are essential to achieve that.
stadium itself is 
the waterproof sultants knowl­The repairs are very similar
quite safe. " 
membrane will edgnable about to the work that has been be replacnd and stadiums and done to a variety of similar the concrete Doug Marsh othnr concrete stadiums throughout the below it will be structures of country, especially those in
University architect 
patehed where similar vintage the north such as the Big Ten necessary," he "We continu-facilities," Lyphout said. said. ally keep close While minor repairs were 
Work is expected to begin tabs on the conditions of all made to the original stadium this spring on the east and University facilities and during the expansion project, northeast parts of the stadi­develop time lines for rein­more repairs are now neces­um, Lyphout said. vestmnnt in the form of sary. though unrelated to the 
Hepairs of the original bowl remodeling and rnnova­expansion, he said. will continue in a counter­tions," he said. "The stadium dockwise pattern in off-sea­is no dil"fernnt, and, as such, Contact Kate Antonacci at sons until 2009, according to we have been monitoring its kantonac@nd.edu 

Sen1inar 
continued from page 1 

form relationships with peo­ple in our group that we usu­
ally  would  not  have  the  
ehance  to  because you  are  
too busy at school."  

Sophomore site leader Patrick O'Brien and his group worked in southern West Virginia with the non-profit organization Big Creek People in Action to renovate an elderly woman's mobile trailer. 
O'Brien and his group used the immersion opportunity to travel within their site's region to meet and aid the people. They were also able to tour a local coal mine and go hiking in the mountains. 
"The best part of the trip was interacting with the local people we met," O'Brien said. "Most have so little, but their spirit is unparalleled. They laughed and joked with us while we worked and made a concerted effort to show us their culture." 
Students were charged a fee of $175 to participate in the Appalachia Seminar. This fee covered the transporta­tion to the site, food and rent. 
During their week-long immersion, students were lodged at various locations within their site locale such community centers and church basements. 
Junior Katie McHugh, who completed her third Appalachia Seminar over fall break, said that traveling to Appalachia gave her a great opportunity to lead and to meet a new group of people. 
"! would highly recommend to everyone to take the opportunity to do this trip while they are a student at Notre Dame," she said. 
O'Brien agreed that the seminar was worthwhile and hard work put into this paid off by the reaction of those he helped. 
"Overall, this experience was wonderful, a definite eye-opener, and something I would love to do again in the future," he said. 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON A Republican-led effort to slow spending on health care pro­grams for the poor, eldnrly and disabled survived a stern tnst in the Senate Tuesday. 
That chamber's Financn Committee, voting along party lines: approved legislation that would trim overall spnnding on Medicare and Medicaid by about $10 billion over five years. The committee's 11 Republicans supported thn leg­islation. Th<~ committee's nine Democrats opposed it. 
In doing so, Democrats citnd what they believed was inadl~­quate assistance for victims of Hurricane Katrina. In particu­lar, Democrats wanted to tem­porarily extend Medicaid cover­age to thousands of people cur­rently ineligible for the program even though they have lost their jobs and their home. · 
"Eight weeks ago yesterday, Katrina made landfall. Eight weeks ago today, the levees broke. And night weeks later, I cannot in good conscience join in cutting health care, when Congress has left the health earn needs 1if Katrina's victims unaddressed," said S1m. Max Baueus of Montana, the top Democrat on the Finance Committne. 
Bepublicans said they weren't thrilled with the bill. nither, mainly bneause they said it did not go far enough to overhaul Medicaid, the nation's health insurance program for the poor. But they rejected thfl notion that lmneficiarics would get a reduced level of care as a result of the changes they approved. 
"Wn are not cutting health earn services to the bencficiar­ins," said Sen. Hick Santorum. H-P~t. "We hav1~ sque<~zfld some fraud out. Wn have squeezed providnrs." 

Rebuilding New Orleans: An Interdisciplinary Discussion 
Thursday, October 27, 2005 
4:00 p.m. until 5:30 p.m. Law School Room 121 
Moderator: Law School Professor Amy Coney Barrett, a New Orleans native 
Forum Participants: Dean Michael Lykoudis, School of Architecture Professor Philip Bess, School of Architecture Professor Alejandro Camacho, Law School Professor Nicole Garnett, Law School Professor John Nagle, Law School Professor Ahsan Kareem, Department of Civil Engineering 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaOl@saintmarys.edu 

Wednesday, October 26, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
amnndmnnt and iL<; application. tion, Nash said. ineluding continuing discussion "During tlw summer·. and wlwn "I don't nwan 1~ny disrespnct to Nash said the purpose of' a with the city and Common this ordinance was talked about

Eviction 
Davn Baron ... but thn assumption notiee to abate was to inform Council. attempting to coordinate lin Snptnmbnrl at COl! !Council of 
legal deli-mse for the studnnL<; and seeking lwlp from the Notrn I>anw administration. 
But A<;sociatn Vice Prnsidnnt f(u· Hesidence Life Bill Kirk on Ttwsday echoed statenwnts he madn in August about tlw University's distance from this type of' proct~Pdings facing iL<; stu­denL<;. 
"Civil action lawsuits -we'rn typically not involved in those kinds of' cases," Kirk said, adding lw donsn't nxpnet thnse particular eases to be any diflimmt. 
"I learned about ]the eviction proenndingsl from the news," Kirk said. "I don't even know the names of the students who were supposedly evicted." 
Baron said the students facing eviction should b1~ helped by tlw University and encouraged to change their behavior, like stu­dent<; who run into trouble in the dorms. 
"This is an event whem mnm­bers of' the Notm Dame family are practically bning put out of tlw street," he said. "In sonw rnspe~;ts. it's the ultimatn punish­ment. 
Not only do the evictions show that students will not recnivo warning, Baron said, but they also contradict statements madn by city oflieials sev1~ral months ago. 
Hnprnsentativosl. it was assurPd by dty oflkials that this ordinancP wasn't targPting studtHJts. that il appliPd to nwryonP," Baron said. "It's prPtty obvious it is ]targPting studPnL<;J ... Thn bust or l.lw par­tins on Sept. I 0 was noI. dlll' to complainL<;. It was thn arlivity ol' a proactiw task f(HTI' that went into a known arna of' studPnt party· ing." 
And known it is. Whilo Nash said she couldn't rank TuriiP CrPnk as mon~ or less problemal.ir than otlwr apartnwnt complexes, sho dt~srribed its roputation as a hotbed for parl.ins, disorder and illngal activity. 
"My undnrstanding, from read· ing Thn Obsm·ver and talking with neighbors ... lis that] it h<L<; in p<l<;t years benn considered a placP where anything gons," N<L<;h said. "Tho nnw ownnrs Iwho took owr tho complex last spring! don't want to snPm to hav1~ that rt>puta­tion, which is to tlwir cn~dit." 
But what Nash said may lw to thn owners' tTPdit may also IPad to thPir husirwss downfitll. Baron said. 
"]Students will lw I morn reluc­tant to takn out apartnwnts in Turtln Crnnk," lw said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhanna I @nd.edu 

continued from page 1 
lill' a rivil suit against thl' tmmnL<; and landlord rosulting in firws anywlll'n' from $250 to $2,500. 
f~ut landlords do not l'aen dty Iilli'S if thPy PViel l.lw tPII1tnL<; with­in :m days ol' rncniving tlw noticn to abato -a rlauso that initially bollwrnd Baron, who ralh~d thn situation l'arl'd by tlw six studnnL<; "unlitir." 
"Orw singln oll'nnsn should not lw grounds for nviclion," Baron said. "II' llw city's going to snnd a notit~n to abato. llwy should allow for somo sort ol' abatP." 
Nash stut·k firmly by the 

that you should have an extra warning bneause you broke the law orw limn is not something most Jwoplo will sympathizn with," sho said. 
II' she worn a landlord, Nash said sho would haw actnd in the sanw way as tlw Turtle Cmnk owrwrs. 
"I think it's an appropriatn thing to do," sho said. "I think anytime a tnnant violates the torms, it's appropriato to lilo an eviction filr brnaking thn legal tnrms of' the lease." 
Any violation of' statn, local or fi~deral taw constitutes a bread1 of llw leaso and can bn t,rrounds for tm·mination of' tlw lease, or evie-Turtle Crnok Management that a tenant had nngagod in illegal activity, sineo the owners wnn~ presumably not present during thn ineidtmt. 
"That tonant aln~ady knnw," shn said. "They don't nPPd to be told that tlwy t~ommittt~d that activity. Thny did it." 
Baron disagreod with Nash's wasoning as to the purposo of tho notice to abate. 
"I think that the city did more than inJimn the landlords of pro­hibited behavior. It actively encouraged eviction," he said. 
Baron said student gowrnmnnt would follow several courses of action on the six students' behall', 



YELLO 

Big Savings on books 
Recovery begins
spanning the spectrum 

after Florida storm 
of Mathematics! 
Associated Press 

Sale prices valid through December 31, 2005. 


Springer 
FOHT LAUDEHDALE, Fla. -Hepair crews across Florida struggled Tuesday to restore eleetrieity to up to 6 million people, reopen the region's airports and replace count­less windows blown out of downtown high-rises during 
CelebY'CI:t"€-t 
YiUtf"¥ W(.th; U¥ 
llurrieane Wilma's ruinous dash across the state. 
HAMMES 
Officials said it could take
NOTRE DAME 
weeks for Florida's most heavily populated region ­
BOOKSTORE 
thn Miami, Fort Lauderdale
IN THE EC:K CENTER 
www. nrlcatalog _com 
and West Palm Beach area ­

TrClA;tiU.Ol'V; ([uaJ..-ity, se.rvi£:,(;> 
to return to normal. 
Water and gas becamn pre­cious commodities, and peo· pit~ waitnd for hours for free 


Academic Integrity at Notre Dame: What Role for Faculty? 
The rise in plagiarism and cheating on college caf'l1Juses poses a significant threat to higher education. Drawing upon surveys of students and faculty on hundreds of college caf'l1Juses, including Notre Darre, the presenter will discuss the if'l1Jortant role that faculty and others can play in reducing student engagerrent in academic dishonesty. 
Prof. Don McCabe Rutgers University 
Founder and Past President of the Center for Academic Integrity 
4:30-5:30 PM, Wednesday, October 26, 2005 Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza School of Business 
Sponrored by the University Code of Honor Committee 
water, ice and food. Lines strntehnd for blocks at tlw re w gas s ta ti 0 n s w ith tlll' nleetricity needed to pump fuel. and arguments broke out when motorists tried to cut in linn. More than 500 pnople waited outside one store for cleanup supplins. 
But bandy 24 hours afll~ r the Category ;{ storm struck, then~ were signs of rncovnry. 
"We have power! Wn have power!" sovnral residents of Miami Lakes dranted as tlwy ran out their back doors when the lights 1~1tnw on. 
Tlw quantity of dPhris was daunting: Pieces of roofs, tnws, signs, awnings, fenc1•s, billboards and pool srreens wern scattered across Sl'VPral t~OLIIJtiPs. I>amagP estimates rangPd up to $10 billion. 
"Tonrorrow's going to lw bPtter than today," Gov..JPh Bush said. 
Sonw of tlw worst damagP was in downtown Fort Lauderdalo, whore Wilma was thP strongest hurric.arw to striko since 1950. Winds of morn than I00 mph blew out windows in high-rises, many built bdon~ Florida 1•nacted tougher const.rut~tion codes following llu rrit~arw Andrew in 1992. 
Tho school distriet's 14· story headquarters -known as thn "Crystal Palace" ­was stripped of nearly its entire glass facade on orw sidn. 
"Wt~'rn going to have to fix it in a way that is stronger," schools supnrintnrHIPnt Frank Till said. 
Governmont officials and business exPcutivns scram· bled to rPpair buildings and fi 11 d o tlw r p I aces to w o r k . Broward County court ol'f'i­cials wnrn trying to detPr­mirw wlwther sessions could be held at the damaged courthouse in coming days. 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, October 26, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
Thr lndi'J'entlnll, Daily Newspn~ &,-.,;"1: Notu DmtJe llnd Saint M11.ry's 

The spiritual power of women 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROll.ER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DesK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
ScENE DEsK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
snJC.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

I can still remember very dearly the day when I first became aware of the untapped spiritual power of women. 
I was browsing through a local book­store and came across a eollection of black and white pho­tographs. They were pictures of women, naked and aged all nf them, with faced lined by troubles and breasts sagging with time. There was noth­ing in any of them like that which most (young) men or (old) poets are indined to eall beauty. No faen would have launched a single ship, or sold even the smallest amount of beer. Indeed, their sensuality would have driven many away in disgust. 
But in defiance of every standard that stood against them, there was holistic clarity and strength in these women that seemed to me an ocean against which time and eternity, gods and demons, men and wars could only bluster in vain. It is a spirituality of great potential. 
I will not try to describe it further. For one thing, I could never possibly do it jus­tice, and if you nend convincing that such a spiritual depth exists in women. then this is not tho column for you. Instead, I ask this question: Why do we pretend it does not exist? 
In our Western world. not that long ago the m<~jority saw women as llowers­bnautiful, fragile and even colled.able, but ultimately Jleeting and unsuited for the exploration of time and eternity. Even today our theologians, philosophers and physicists are largely men. Notre Dame 


Lance Gallop 
Tidewater Blues 

itself possesses a mission that is ostensibly a fusion of mind and soul, yet it is gov­erned almost exclusively by men, and those few women who do reach positions of power are paraded out on spedal occa­sions like hunting trophies. 
Sometimes it seems like the 19th centu­ry never left. 
Nor does the student culture provide stable ground from which the inner spiri­tuality of women can gain widespread acceptance. A few months into my fresh­man year I had been taught that a) Notre Dame girls (not women) are ugly, b) Saint Mary's chicks (again, not women) have their own stereotype and c) Notre Dame men (not boys) are hot and all of the above desire them constantly. In hall councils I learned that women's dorms are political­ly inept and their governance idiotic ­things to be manipulated, not respected. I also learned that the deciding factor in the theme of any dance sponsonJd by a men's dorm is how little clothing the visiting women can be compelled to wear. 
Obviously Notre Dame is an environ­ment that is firmly committed to advane­ing the status of women in the social con­sciousness and to kindling the tru<~ depths of their spiritual nature. 
And then there is the Catholic Chureh itself'. What has been lost bm~ause one half of the human experience has been evis­cerated from the endave of spiritual power and influence? The Church rejects absolutely the ordination of women, though in all of my time as a student of theology, I have never once bonn given an acceptable justification for this ban, one basnd on sound logic or valid s<:riptural evidence. This shortage of"solid ground­ing; in an otherwise logical faith, is gener­ally the hallmark of shortsighted and f!Jol­ish errors, such that later generations will come to lament. 
But even if the Church has a line reason liJr denying the ordination of women, what reason dons it have liJr denying the deaeonate to women (there are dea­conesses in the New Testament), or for our present pontill"s distastn for female altar severs? Why, when there is so much drawn from the male persona of Christ portraynd in the Gospel is there next to nothing said of the fim1ale persona of Christ portrayed in the Book of Wisdom? When thern is such self-evident and unique grace found in the souls of women, why are they barrnd from ev<~n proximity to the central power structure of the Church, for certainly the Church would only benefit fhHn the unique gracn of such a union. 
These questions arn unsnttling. llowever, our Westnrn world has come a long way since the 19th century. We now aeknowlndge the snnsuality and sexuality of women though it was once a grievous insult to suggnst that a woman was even physically capable of sexual pleasum. Then~ arn women in our armed fiwces and government. though onee John Knox famously dnerind the abomination that "the weak, the sick and impotnnt pnrsons" should bn the"lnadors of' "the wholf~ and strong." Accepting and embracing the spirituality of women in a limna! context is simply thn nnxt logical stnp, and a groat social bnnnfit that has benn long in eom­ing. 
Lance Gallop is a 2005 graduate of Notre Dame. /lis column appears et•ery other Wednesday. 1/e can be contacted at comments@tideu,alerblues. com 
The uiews expressed in this rolwnn are those ofthe author arid not necessarily those ofThe Obsemer. 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of rhe University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
11lc OhM:rvcr {USPS 'i~9l·4000) is published Monday through Friday ex<:ept durin~ exam .tnd vacation period~. Asub:if,.':tiptioll w The Observer i~ $Ill() fi:lr one academic year~ $')') for one scmcsrcr. 
11tc Ohscrvcr i~ puhlisht'd .11: POSTMASTER 
ll24 South Dining Hall ::,end .addrcs~ correaions w: 
Notre Dame. IN 465%-0779 Thc:OI»t.-rvc:r 
l,criodicJI pn~t.lgc paid at Nlllft' D01mc 1~0. Box 779 
and o~ddi1i1mill m.2.ilin!i officc:s. 014 5<:luih Dining Hall 
Nurre Dame, IN 46556-0n9 
TI1e Ob~oervcr is .1 memher of the Al.smiatcd Press.. All n::producriml rights arc 
rCM:rvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Kate Antonacci Kate Gales Lisa Schultz Ken Fowler Katelynn Rielly Dan Murphy Viewpoint Scene Alyssa Brian Doxtader 

Brauweiler Graphics Kelly MacDonald 
U-WIRE 

Too much PC can be BS 
Ever notice how childlike students at Brandeis University can be? Not to say we wear diapers, but in our conflict-resolu­tion skills: We whine, we complain, we yell. 
How can I tell? Like any other immature Matt kid, typical Brandeis Brown students cannot engage in proper Brandeis debate. They don't University care that opinions The Justice contrary to their own exist and refuse to calmly and civilly exprnss disagreement to the appropriate parties.· 

Have any of you ever watched a presi­dential debate? There's never any name­calling or shouting. Meanwhile, here's an example of how "debate" is at Brandeis: Within two days of any Brandeis Hepublican flyer bning posted, it is invari­ably torn down. Debate, from my under­standing, is a two-sided process that does­n't include rebuttal through vandalism. 
I am sure all the overwhelmingly libnral liberals at Brandeis pride themselves on bning politically eorrect. I I ere is a defini­tion of political correctness, from the 
OBSERVER POLL 
Are you planning on getting men's basketball tickets? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

American Heritage Dictionary: 
"1) Of, relating to, or supporting broad social, political and educational change, especially to redress historical injustices in matters such as race, class, gender and sexual orientation. 2) Being or perceived as being overly concerned with such change, often to the exclusion of other matters." 
I'd venture to say that most Brandeisians believe they fit under the first definition, but I would like to high­light definition number two; that is the Brandeis culture. Somewhere down the road to liberalism and enlightenment, the Brandeis community "excluded" the "other matters" of civility, discourse and open-mindedness. This institution is so used to being liberal that any ideology even slightly centrist is greeted with undue anger. 
The Brandeis University mission state­ment says: "LBrandeis] strives to reflect the heterogeneity of the United States and of the world community whoso ideas and eoncerns it shares. Brandeis renews the American heritage of cultural diversity, equal access to opportunity, and freedom of expression." Where did that go? Sinee 
,Submit aLetter to the Editor at 
f www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
when was it within the bounds of "free­dom of expression" to tear down a few Brandeis Republican signs? Since when was it "heterogeneous" for everyone to have to agree on important issues'? 
"Attaek the idea, not the person," advised an outspoken HHpublican with whom I spoke. Think about debating the point your ideological opponent is mak­ing. It's nearly impossible to change someono's mind when he's defensive. 
By all means, be passionate about your beliefs, your identity and your opinions. I'm all liJr passion. But realize that just bneause someone disagrees with you, he is not a monster or an imbecile. 
It is about time that people at Brandeis realized that disagrnnment and eompnti­tion arn necessary liw the betterment of society. Without opposition, the tyranny of the majority reigns SUJWnme-and everyone knows liberals hate tyranny. 
This column originally appeared in the Oct. 25 issue ofT/ze Justice, the daily pub­lication at Brandeis University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"To endure is greater than to dare; to lire out hostile fortune; to be daunted by no difficulty; to keep heart when all haCJe lost it -who can say this is not greatness?" 
William Makepeace Thackeray English novelist 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE 0HSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 26, 2005 page I I 
U-WIRE 
Cleanly little secret 
<;rowing up, I assumed there were three ways to dean: The wrong way, the right way and my mom's way, which shames the right way into beeoming the wrong way. 
My motlwr is the queen of dean. If cleanliness is next to godlirwss. she deserves a chapter in a mythology textbook. Danny Tlw one constant in her kitchen, Jacobs lwsides rny brother and me rum­maging through tho pantry, is a University of crumpled, wet papnr towel on the Maryland eountmtop just waiting to wipe The sorrwthing dean. "Crumbs" is, both Diamondback literally and figuratively, a dirty word in our house. 
Now that I am living in my own ap~trtmnnt, I lind mys1df exhibiting sonw of my morn's trails. I con­stantly wipe ofT tables and countnrtops, spot dirt and dust on an alomie l1W11l and love Oprah. (OK, I made that up. I actually see dirt on a subatomie level.) 
The biggest b+1nel1daries of my dcaning, aside from my own sanity, are my roommates. At the beginning of the year, I politely declined their otTers to help nw dean. Now, they save their breath and simply know Saturdays foature two sounds-the roar of tlw erowds at the eollege football game we're watching on telovision and the whir of' the vacuum d11anpr at halftime. 
Still, I would not say I am obsessed with cleanli­ness. That implies I would have a nnrvous brl~ak­down if I saw dirty dishes in the sink for more than 30 minutes. (Attention, my roommates: Don't even think about it.) I just like eleaning, simple as that. The sense of' accomplishment that is a spotless room is very fulfilling to me, not to mention rp.ore pleasing to the nose than thP. altP.rnativP.. 
The biggest problem with deaning is things P.ven­tually get dirty again. This nP.vP.rending battle is like a video game where I am the hnro and dirt is the bad guy. As any self'-respccting video game player knows, the key to beating a bad guy is to have the coolest weapons. For my battles, I roly on an arsenal that is basic and ef'fective with a little flair-the llonda­with-a-rear-spoill~r of c!P.aning supply closets. if' you will. 
It starts with the disinfeetant wipes, because everything is handier in wipe form. If' some genius bof'ore me had not tried to dean himself with these wipes-rPsulting in the warnings on the wipes con­tainer to keep them out ol' your eyes and ofT your skin-I would have definitnly tried it. As it stands, I'll stick to non-human surfaces. 
Thn vacuum is the old, reliable standby, not to mention an excellent dance partner. The vacuum's younger, hipper cousin is tho SwiiTer. Whoever invented this half-broom, h11lf'-mop device deserves a Nobel Prize. Don't get me wrong, Professor Schelling deserved a Nobel for his work with Game Theory. But can Game Theory get dirt ofT the floor with a dry cloth and then dean the floor with a wet doth, all in five minutes and with no mess'? The folks in Sweden don't know what they arc missing, and I think that stinks. 
Speaking of' things that stink. the most dangnrous part of' eleaning involves the toilet. There are only so many f'lushes and so many sprays of air frnsherwr you can usn bef'orn you need to polish the porcelain throne. The problem is, like the board game Operation. you do not want to get too dose to tlw sides of' tho toilet while scrubbing. 
Enter what I eall the toilet gun -my f'avorite eleaning appliancn. It's onn of those toilnt brushes with a canister of toilet bowl deaner insidn. Wherwver the toilet is dirty or I want to arnusn mysolf', I aim the brush into the toilet and pull thn t.riggnr. Out comes tlw deaning solution, and. after a few good scrubs, down the drain the bad stuf'f' goes. 
Because toilet grirnn is thn last bad guy of' my cleaning video ganw, it's only naluml a special weapon is needed to kill it. And how did I get this wmtpon'? The easiest way possibln-the cheat eodn known as "mom." The toilet gun was one of' the first things she got me for my apartment wlwn I moved in last year. 
So come on ovP.r and use my toilet. I guarantee it will be elean, just like the rest of' tho apartment. Just pleasn, take your shoes ofT first. 
This column originally appeared in the Oct. 25 issue of The Diamondback, the daily publication at the University of Maryland. 
The views expressed in this column are those oflhe author and not necessarily those of The Obsenwr. 
Discriminating, the American way 
It is a good thing that. discrimina­tion d01~sn't exist. When I heard the otlwr day that < ;ov. SdJwarzPnnggPr rei'Pnlly Vl1loml LhP Hnligious Frnndorn & Civil MarriagP 
Jack

l'rotPI'tion Art 
Ingram

(a.k.a. !\.B. 1-WJ), thus 
California

dPnying horno­
Po~ylechnic

SI~xuals the 
,','fate 

sanw righL'i as 
llniversity

hntProsextmls. I 
Mustang Daily 

was worried that sonw p1•opln might bo discrimi­natl'd against. Tlwn I rnrnembnred that discrimination doesn't exist. and I f'Plt a lot bntll~r. 
Appan•ntly tlwm arn pnopln, dti­zens no less. who pnrcnivn I~Prtain laws, nspPdally marriagn laws, to h<• discriminatory. What an• tlwse pnople thinking'? From IH!iO t.o I<J77 Califilrnia marriage laws wnrn gnrHinr rwutral. that is, rnarriagn laws had no refnwn1~n to "man" or "woman." But in l 977. Califilrnia lawmakers dnddl'd to anwnd mar­riagP laws to inr.ludn the words "man" and "woman." tlwreby pro­hibiting honHJsnxuals from nngag­ing in marriagn. I nwan, mmn on. This is Anwriea. 
l'nrhaps Calili1rnia lawmakers Wl'rn confused. Do thny bl'linw that under eurrl'nllaw same-sex eou­pl<>s arn not abln to marry the per­son of tlwir ehoien'? Maybn lawrnak­11rs think that samn-sex couples am dl'nii'CI thousands of righL'i nntiwly on the basis of' whnther thnir parl­nnr has a vagina or a pnnis'? A'i if'. 
Obviously, thnse lawmakers haVI~ liJrgottnn some bask grammar school history: America is not a dis­criminatory nation. Arnnrka does not nvnn have a history ol' disl:rimi­nation. Allow nw to illustrate a li~w shining mom1ml'i in our nation's non-discriminatory past: 
l H57: In a ease known commonly as tlw Drnd Scott Dedsion, tho U.S. 
Supr11me Court finally endml the long debate over the legality of' slav­nry, d11daring that AI Mr. Seot.t was not a pPrson and B) that he W<L'i a piec11 of' propm'ty. This fitmous deci­sion thus pn•ventod a civil war. 
I 920: In what wa.c;; known as the suflhtge movement (mllod sufl'ragn beeausn wonwn wnrn f(Jrdng men to sulliw by not allowing thorn to vote), whitn. marrind males wew finally !,riven the right to vote with the passage or the 19th Amendment. 
· 1944: During World War II, thou­sands of Japanese Amnrieans living on the West Coast "voluntarily" deddPd to move to "internment camps" f(Jr a "vacation." A disgrun­tlnd man nanwd Kormnal'iu sued the United States dairning that his "vaeation" infringed upon his civil righL'i. The court ruled that individ­ual civil liberties outweigh national sncurity interests, especially in time of war. thus fill'ever ending govern­ment inf'ringmnent upon individual f'rnmloms and thn dnbatn over civil righL'i. 
It is clear f'rom this brief' ovnrviP.w of' history, that if' discrimination nver did exist. it doesn't anymore, espe­cially not among the homosexual community. I .awrnakers should just quit w<L'iling time and taxes on llflilrL'i to outlaw fktional problems like "discrimination" and "nqual protection." Instead. why don't our lawmakers locus on real. non-fic­tional problems, like finding Iraq's weapons of mass destruction'? 
... Oh. wait. 
'111is mlumn originally appeared in the Oct. 25 issue q{the Mustang !Jaify. the daily publication at Calijbrnia Polytechnic State University. 
The oiews expressed in this col­umn are those r!fthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseroer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
-


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 Wednesday, October 26, 2005 

MOVIE REVIEWS 
Cameron Crowe's latest film a letdown 
By LIZ BYRUM 
Assistant Scene Editor 
If you've never had the desire to head out on a road trip, you will after seeing writer-director Cameron Crowe's newest film, "Elizabethtown." llowever, aside from an itch to travel, a few laugh-out-loud moments and an interesting concept, the movie may leave audience members slightly disap­pointed. 
"Elizabethtown" is about a young man namod Drew Baylor (Orlando Bloom) who blows eight years of his professional life and shortly after finds out his father has suddenly passed away. 
On his venture to fulfill his father's last wishes in Elizabethtown. a small Kentucky town, 
scenes and a few choice moments carry the film, but nothing ties them together into a completely coherent picture. 
Orlando Bloom takes on his first lead­ing part out of elf ears and off pirate ships. The character of Drew Baylor gave Bloom a complex role to fill, and he seemed quite comfortable with the job. 
Although his performance may not be Oscar-worthy, it definitely shows the Bloom deserves the respect he has received in recent years from members of the film community, as well as from his adoring fans. 
Unlike Bloom, who has just begun to explore modern leading roles, Dunst seems to be doing the same old thing. Dunst is playing a "character" she is very familiar with -herself. As Claire, the odd yet loveable young flight atten­
dant, she spits 

Drew meets a out cheesy lines
Elizabethtown
quirky llight atten­as ''I'm impossi­dant name Claire 
ble to forget, but Colburn (Kirsten I'm hard to Dunst), who helps remember." him turn his life Though some ofDirector: Cameron Crowe 
around. Through a her lines might
Writer: Cameron Crowe 
series of crazy be a stretch, she
Starring: Kirsten Dunst, Orlando 
events, Drew doesn't seem to 
Bloom, Susan Sarandon and Judy Greer 
comes to find new be stretching her 
meaning in his life. 
Crowe is a tal­ented director whose previous films include "Almost Famous" and "Jerry Maguire," but for all of the potential in "Elizabethtown," the means rarely lead to an end. 
A scattnring, of wnll thought-out 
acting abilities at 
all. 

The supporting actresses, in "Elizabethtown" also highlight both the high and low points of the film. Veteran actress Susan Sarandon plays a fairly small part, but proves she is still the true leading lady as she steals the show 

in her role as the neurotic grieving widow. 
On the other end of the spectrum is Jessica Biel who plays the part of Ellen, a stuck-up employee of the company Drew worked for and his recent ex-girl­friend. 
Although she has been praised as one of Hollywood's next top actresses, the only list her role in "Elizabethtown" will top is most monotonous performance. Even an evil ex-girlfriend who is in a movie for all of five minutes should show a few signs of life, something that could definitely not he seen in Biel. 
One of the things that makes 
"Elizabethtown" a more respectable film is the soundtrack. Each song seemed to fall at exactly the right moment, and accentuated the mood of the scenes better than a lot of movies do. 
With a variety of music ranging from the recent breakout band, My Morning Jacket ("Where to Begin"), to classics like Tom Petty ("It'll All Work Out"), there seemed to be a little something for everyone. 
Overall, Crowe's film provides laughs, touching moments, a good s~mndtrack 
Contact Liz Byrum at ebyrum@nd.edu 
'Doom' a mindlessly bad sci-fi action film 
By TREVOR GASS Scene Critic 
It's "Doom." The movie. You don't go to see it for its complex and engaging storyline. Or its well developed, love­able characters. Or its fresh, original concept. Most importantly, you certainly will not go see it because this review said it was worthy of your six dollars. 
Take a less than mediocre premise (genetics science experiment gone wrong), a crew of terribly written marines (including everybody's favorite, The Hock), throw them on Mars with an arsenal of fully automatic weapons and unleash the mutated zombie monsters. 
The original Doom computer game ereated by the masterminds at ld Software in 1992 was a huge success despite the non-existent storyline. The ground breaking 
with the incorporation of a handful of monsters from the Doom universe and the legendary BPG9000, which stands for BioForce Gun, among other colorful interpretations of the acronym. 
Beyond these points, this film could have been released under another name and no one would have been the wiser. 
For hardcore fans of the Doom games or mindless bloody violence, the film might hold some redeeming value. Seeing the BFG in action was definitely one of the cooler parts in the movie. However, it only happened twice. 
As for the bloody violence depart­ment, the substandard action is drowned out by terrible execution. It could be more entertaining to sit in the theater placing bets on who dies next than actually following the story. 
The entire middle portion of the 
movie amounts 

game engine and to just that: the
Doom
addietive replay crew of marines kept garners root­
being killed one
)

ed at their com­j by one as they puter screens for fumble through hours on end. the darknessDirector: Andrzej Bartkowiak 
The more recent while managing
Writers: Dave Callahan and Wesley Strick 
release of the to trip over 
Starring: Karl Urban, Rosamund Pike, Ben 
game Doom 3 every horror
Daniels, DeObia Oparei and The Rock 
incorporated a movie· cliche 
functioning story­line (scientists opening portals to llell) to accompany the game's blood splat­tering antics. 
What does "Doom" the movie haV<~ in common with the gaming franchise? Not much. 
The movie could have been written as a generie sub-par science fiction/horror script with a few references from the games thrown in as lame attempts at justifying the use of the Doom name. The few parallels that do exist occur 
they can find. At times, simply watching is painful. 
Sticking heads up into the dark air vent? Check. Chase the killer monster into the dark sewer? Check. Split up the marines whenever possible? "Doom" has got it covered. 
Most of the characters die before audiences get a chance to know them. Those who do stick around long enough to develop their stereotyped, one­dimensional personalities do nothing but prolong the painful viewing experi-ence. 

Most of the movie involves watching marines run back and forth through the same three hallways, shooting at badly rendered computer generated monsters while spouting off profanity and terrible one-liners. 
As if it couldn't get any worse, the sereenwritcrs decided that it would be a good idea to end the movie with a Kung Fu battle. What? Kung Fu has nothing to do with Doom. 
The only innovative point of the movie occurred when the camera switched to a first person perspective. This is one aspect where the movie is faithful to the game, though the novelty wears off quickly. The effect was refreshing but nothing especially spectacular. 
All in all, if expectations are set at an appropriately low level, audiences might not be too disappointed, though if given the choieP, not going at all is probably the better option. 
Contact Trevor Gass at tgass@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, October 26, 2005 
page 13 
SCENE FEATURE 
A grand day out for Wallace and Gromit 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Scent: Critic 
OviH' 15 ymtrs ago, the world first nww to know a cnrtain pair of day-ani­nratnd l'igurns. It was in a short l'ilm <Inscribing a sparn voyagn to thn moon in pursuit of pnrfnct dwnsn -a lunar trip tak~>n by midd In-aged Englishman Wallacn and his trustnd dog, (;romit. 
I>Pspitl' lwing somewhat foilnd in tlwir quPst by a robot who wishes only to lnarn to ski, tlw pair rami' out success­and slightly "out of it" when it comes to tlw practieality of' using his inventions. 
For example, in "The Wrong Trousers," the !irst W&G short to win an Academy Award, Wallace invents his famous pair of mechanical trousers, only to be left clueless when the pants are manipulated by an evil penguin to stmtl a famous diamond from a nearby museum. 
Tho outlandish nature of his inven­tions -such as a mind-manipulating device in "Curse of the Wnre-Habbit" ­adds to both Wallacn's amusing charac­

fully in tlw nnd with a stash of moon !'.lwnsn. 
SinrP that l'irst short. "A <;rand Day Out," Wallarn and Gromit havP PXparHind tlwir SUI'I'.nss in two otlwr short films and a mcnnt fPaturn, "Tiw Curs!' of thn W1•rn-ltahbit." 
Now attracting such famous talnnts as Illdnna Bonham-Cartnr and Halph Finnnns, dirnctor Ni1:k Park's Wallac11 and Cromit, no 
"!like !claymalion/. It's the kind r~f medium you can improvise on because il 's all happening in front r~f the camera. " 
Nick Park Animator 
ter and the l'ilms' fun and subtly wacky nature. 
Wallace's swent pnrsonali­ty, shining bald head and lovn of Chnddar, Stilton and Camnmbert make for a gnmt and winning protagonist for nach of the four W&C films. 
Forget Air Bud, Bm~thovnn or oven Nana from thn rncent remake of "Peter Pan" -few on-screen canines can hold a candle to Park's Gromit. 
Where Wallace, despite his daffiness, is usually the 

mom than a daffy, chnnse-loving inven­tor and his stnadfast and brilliant ranirw companion, have grown in popu­larity and prnstign to become one of the most Wl'll-known and bdoved man-and­dog pairs in rncnnt movin history. 
lnvnntor. dog ownnr, 1mtrnpreneur. dwnsn 1·.onnoissnur -Park's Wallace is both brilliant at his scinntil'ic pursuits 
-:-::-~================================================================================================================ 
Wallace and Gromit's 'Curse' is a charm 
By ERIN MCGINN 
Scrnr Critil 
I·:vnn though tlwre an1 no state-of-tlw­art romputnr graphies, Steve Box and Nick Park's "Wallaen & Gromit: The Cursn of' tlw Wore-Habbit" is nasily a con­tnndnr for thn lwst-anirnated rnovin of t hn ynar. II. is .a funny and light-hearted romndy that nv11ryonn can easily nnjoy. 
In a world whern Pixar and computnr animation mign supwmn. Uw mturn to t.lw days of stop-motion "day-mation" is rnl'rnshing, especially whnn it brings sonw familiar facns back with it. Al'tnr SJWnding five years in production. Wallacn and Gromit l'inally hit tho big scnwn in tlwir first fnaturn-lnngth pie­
tUl'l~. 
Tlw duo have lwnn popular with people 
of all agns through thP world sincn I1JH'J whnn tlwy first appnarnd in the short flirk "A (;rand Day Out," which was nom inat­nd for Uw Best Animatnd Short Oscar. 
brains of any W&G operation, Gromit is tho practicality, the performer of the grunt work and the source of each lilrn's wry and loyal perspective. 
Cromit is the more domestic of the pair, as he cooks, vacuums, gardens and tends to Wallace's outrageously intricate invnntions. 
(;romit, who is the only character in 
tivo anirnatnd animals. Gromit never uttnrs a word, yet still manages to exprnss hirnsnlf better than some actors in llollywootl. 
In "Thn Curse of tho Wern-Habbit," dirndnd by Stove Box and Nick Park, Wallacn (voiced by Peter Sallis) and Grornit run a rabbit-catching business, Anti-Pesto, to protoct the vegetables that townspeople an~ growing for the annual Giant Vogotabln Competition. 
Sinen this is a humane business, the duo quickly ran out of cagns to keep all of' tho captured rahbits contained. Wallace eornos up with an invention to solvn everything: After ono of Wallace's quirky invnntions goes awry, a monstrous rabbit is creat1~d. allowing for ever-amus­ing parodies of' classic horror films, like "Frankenstein" and "King Kong." 
The Were-Babbit begins to devour the 
townspeople's 
prized vegeta­
bles and it

The Curse of the Were-Rabbit 
bi~COmPS up to Wallace and

. ) ' ) ' ) . )
.. ,_·J:~.. . .) .. ·;.. ) Gromit to saVf1 J ,1:J Jj..:J J ~ J J--J the day. Along the way,
Directors: Steve Box and Nick Park 
Wallace tries to

Writers: Steve Box nnd Nick Pnrk 
impress Lady

Starring: Peter Snllis, Rnlph Fiennes, Helena 
Campanula

Bonhnm Cnrter, Peter Kay nmi Nicholas Smith 
(voiend by llelen 

Tlwy appnarnd in two morn short films. "Thn Wrong Trousnrs" ( 19'H) and "A Clos11 Shave." (I 1JIJ5). Thnsn Oscar-win­nNs W11l'P wildly popular in their home rountry of l·:ngland and arhieved markml sur.rnss throughout Uw world. 
Thn movins follow Wallaco, thn dwoso­loving, ambitious. but simpln-mindnd inwntor who is always gntting hims1~lf into siTapns of all kinds. As in all of their films, it is up to Wallacn's dog Gromit to savn thP day. Hurking tho trnnd of talka-
Bonham Cartnr), who promotes Anti-l'esto's humane tnmtrnent of tho rabbits, while at the same time competing against her suitor Vil:tor Quartnrmaine (voiced by Balph Finnnns), who would rather got rid of his problnms with his gun. 
Thoro is vory little wrong with "The Curso of tho Woro-Habbit." The anima­tion is practi<:ally l'lawless; the stop­motion animation is f'luid throughout. Although a f'ow children in the audience ar11 lik11ly to dislikn tlw !'act that it is not 
Photo courtesy of movieweb.com Wallace (voice of Peter Sallis), left, and his faithful dog Gromit, right, have been the clay-mation stars of several short films that were international successes. 
Park's universe who nnvnr speaks, expresses his affection for -and often exasperation with -his owner with silent-!ilm-type gestures, facial expres­sions and funny, almost human behav­ior. 
During more stressful times in each !ilm, Grornit tends to take up his signa­ture knitting needles. A loyal, intelligent and downright funny canino, Gromit is the perfect balance f'or Wallace in this comedy team. 
Starting with "A Grand Day Out," ani­mator Nick Park has since created throe more Wallace and Gromit l'ilms, "The Wrong Trousers," "A Close Shave" and "Curse of' tho Wore-Habbit" in t.lw somn­what old-school clay animation styln. 
"I like this medium. It's the kind of medium you can improvisn on bocausn it's all happnning in front of' the cam­era," said Park in a recent int111·view with Movinholn.nnt. · 
In a timn whnrn CCI animation is tho norm, Wallace and Cromit are both bucking trends and winning audinn<:ns worldwido. 
Whethnr just one shor·t is nnough to whP.t a vinwer's palate or all four lilms are snen marathon-style, watching any 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of movieweb.com Wallace (voice of Peter Sallis), right, and his dog Gromit attempt to solve the myserty of the Were-Rabbit in the acclaimed duo's first feature-length film. 
CCI, the movie should please ovnryonn who grow up with a steady strnam of elay-mation movios and tnlevision shows. 
Tho script is superb and has sonwthing that nvnryone, young and old, will enjoy. It providns plnnty of' slapstiek and goofi­rwss to knep young kids laughing, as woll as clever "adult" jokes for· t.lw oldnr crowd, mueh like "Slunk" and other recent animatnd movins. 
There is also plenty ol' on-screen humor to warrant r11pnatnd vinwings, with everything f'rom tho labels on eon­tain11rs in the kitdwn, to pictures hang­ing on tlw walls in t.h11 various housns. Snning as how tl111 prnvious "Walla.m and Gromit" movins wnrn all short films, tlw dirnctors/wril.11rs did a good job of nxtnnding their work int.o a full-l11ngth movie. 
This movin is wnll worth snl'ing, nspn­eially with llallownnn just around the corner. And f'or tlw fans of tlw prnvious 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd,edu 
'• 
,. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, October 26, 2005 
MOVIE REVIEWS 

Plotting makes 'Flightplan' a bumpy trip 
By PAT MOORE Scene Critic 

"Flightplan" is a thriller in the skies that delivers -for about an hour, any­way. With an intriguing story concept, an engrossingly suspenseful mood (thanks to director Robert Schwentke), and a talented lead actress in Jodie Foster, the film ·has the potential for greatness. But it falls short -and falls hard -with a late plot-destroying twist and a less than stellar ending. 
Jodie Foster stars as Kyle, an engi­neer for a German airplane manufac­turer who has suffered the tragic loss of her husband in an act of suicide. With her young daughter Julia, Kyle leaves home in Berlin to bury her husband in America. As their flight takes off, an emotionally worn 
way it generates a thick aura of ten­sion, confusion and suspense. The com­mercial aircraft in which the plot unfolds is enormous, making six-year­old Julia difficult to find. 
Yet the confined setting of the air­plane dictates that if Julia boarded the plane, she still must be on the plane, even if she is missing. Anxiety builds for both Kyle and the audience at the thought of Julia being so near, yet so elusive. 
The flight's passengers are culturally diverse, eccentric, impersonal and unfriendly. Such casting of the passen­gers subtly contributes to the building suspense, as everyone becomes a sus­pect for abducting Julia, for both Kyle and the audience. 
Jodie Foster's acting talent shines as the distraught mother, whose panic takes her to the 
Kyle and Julia brink of sanity.
Flightplan
cling to each other Hysterical, but in the passenger 
not helpless, Kyle cabin and fall climbs, crawls asleep. and breaks into When Kyle other compart­
Director: Robert Schwenke
awakens, her mind ments of the air­
Writers: Peter Dowling and Billy Ray 
is not on her late craft to search
Starring: Jodie Foster, Sean Bean,
husband, but on for Julia.
Michael lrby and Peter Sarsgaard
her daughter, mys­Perhaps the 

teriously absent from her seat. Kyle's mild alarm turns to worry, and ultimately to panic as she cannot locate Julia. Much of the rest of the film depicts Kyle's struggle to lind Julia and identify the person who has tahn her. 
"Fiightplan" is entertaining in the 
movie's greatest strength is the potent emotional con­nection Foster's character establishes with the audience. Like the character Lisa in the Wes Craven movie "Red Eye," Kyle is both the victim and the hero. 
"Flightplan" is filled with twists and turns to keep the audience on its toes, the biggest of which takes place about an hour into the movie. Audiences won't see this one coming, because it is so far-fetched and ridiculous that it sus­pends belief. 
The twist complicates the circum­stances of Kyle's problem to the point that they become unbelievable and absurd, even for a Hollywood movie. And since the plot twist is so central to the script, it brings down the entire story. 
What it does not bring down, howev­er, is the movie's entertainment value. The movie builds suspense upon sus­pense, and, regardless of plot integrity, keeps the audience engrossed until the end. The ending, while satisfying, is anticlimactic in that the conflict is resolved far too quickly. 
The film's closing scene is not nearly as lengthy or dramatic as those ol' its peers, "Red Eye" and "Air Force One." Yet, as much as comparisons can be drawn with those movies, Schwentke's film is worth seeing on its own, regard­less of the shortcomings. If you can for­give the screenwriters, "Flightplan" is solid, Friday night thriller fun. 
Contact Pat Moore at pmoorel@nd.edu 
'In Her Shoes' a pretty comfortable fit 
By COURTNEY WILSON 
Scene Critic 

Based on the best-selling novel by Jennifer Weiner, "In Her Shoes" follows the story of two starkly different sisters and their journeys to self-discovery. 
It might sound like just another chick­flick, but such an assessment is only half true. While it is a female-oriented f1lm, it is also much deeper than most chick -flicks. 
"In Her Shoes" progresses further than most into such sensitive subjects as the female struggle for self-actualiza­tion. the importance of family and the eternal bonds of sisterhood. 
On the surface, the movie might appnar to be fairly standard, but it ulti­mately proves itself to be a female empowering drama rooted in commit­nwnt to family and 
the two. A frumpy workaholic lawyer, she is constantly forced to dean up the mess of Maggie's mistakes. Rose's biggest struggle is her hopeless outlook towards the future and her numerous insecurities. 
Maggie. booted out of her father's house by her "evil stepm'other," moves in with her older sister. A kleptomaniac, Maggie steals everything from her sis­ter's money and shoes to her ever-so­hunky boss and latest love interest. 
When Maggie's unrelenting behavior and seemingly calculated act of betrayal drives Hose to the point of a breakdown, the massive rift between tho two exceeds all expectation for swift repair. Hose throws Maggie out of her home and, for a time, out of her life. 
Maggie heads to Florida to milk the affections of her long estranged grand­mother. During this time, Hose is given 
enough spacn to 
real life love. explore her own
In Her Shoes
Two siblings, needs, and unex­Maggie (Cameron 
pectedly finds a Oiaz) and Hose genuine love Feller (Toni interest in her Collette) are more retreat.
Director: Curtis Hanson
dissimilar than Ella (Shirley
Writer: Susannah Grant
anyone could MacLaine, "Terms
Starring: Cameron Diaz, Toni Collette, 
imagine, but are of Endearment").
Shirley Mac Laine and Brooke Smith
united in their love the grandmother, 

for expensive footwear. Beyond this, however, they have depended on each other ever since the loss of their young, mentally unsta­ble mother. 
Maggie is trapped in a chronic state of adolescence. An irresponsible slob who can't hold a job, she gets by on her good looks, promiscuity and the hospitality of others. Even more serious, she has a learning disability, -which proves to be her biggest obstacle. 
Her sister Rose is the ugly duckling of 
welcomes Maggie with open arms. She becomes a sort of life coach for her granddaughter, push­ing Maggie toward self-discovery and personal improvement. Through Ella, Maggie finds the unexpected inspiration she needs to get her life together and patch things up with her sister. 
Cameron Diaz's performance is not quite what might be expected from the perky actress, but is still quite possibly the best role of her career. Diaz seems fully aware that Maggie will not be the 
favored sister and plays her scalawag character all out. 
Still, Diaz is never remiss to shake her booty on camera, and that she does as she sashays her way out of trouble and develops into a much more likeable character. While the part could have been played by any other cliche party girl actress, the surprisingly strong per­formance from Diaz proves much more satisfying. 
In fact, the acting is better than expected across-the-board, as actress Toni Collette brings an emotionally charged, true to life performance to her character. 
If "In ller Shoes" is a chick f1ick, then it's a good, emotionally intense one. Containing the essentials of any fiery female fiction, including love, deception, self-acceptance and of' course shoes, this film leaves no subject to spare. Ladies, bring a tissue to this one. 
Contact Courtney Wilson at cwilson6@nd.edu 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, October 26, 2005 
NHL 

Wiltna forces back Panthers gatne 
Storm causes minor damage to Florida's Bank Atlantic Center 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Hurricane Wilma caused some minor damage to the Florida Panthers' arena, prompting the NHL to post­pone another game because of the storm. 
Saturday's scheduled visit by the Washington Capitals has bnen pushed back indefinitely, the league said Tuesday. It's the second straight Panthers home game affected by Wilma; last Saturday's scheduled visit by Ottawa will be played Dec. 5. 
The Bank Atlantic Center is running on generator power and little else, Panthers spokesman Justin Copertino said Tuesday before Florida played at Pittsburgh. The refrigeration system keeping the ice sheet solid is still work­ing, but it's unknown when other services will be restored. 
"We don't know when the power is going to come on," Copertino said. "We haven't had any employees in there for two days." 
Wilma also affected this weekend's college football schedule. Because the Orange Bowl's lighting system was damaged, the starting time for Saturday's game between North Carolina and sixth­ranked Miami was moved up to noon, the Atlantic Coast Conference said. 
"We wanted to play in the Orange Bowl, since it's our home," Miami coach Larry Coker said. "I think it's an opportunity to give something back to the community a little bit. We're a tough, resilient community and we look for­ward to playing in front of our fans." 
The Carolina-Miami game was originally scheduled to be played at 3:30 p.m., which means it would end in dark­ness -and potentially create a dangerous situation for both fans and players. An over­whelming majority of Miami­Dade County remained without power Tuesday, and a night­time countywide curfew is starting daily at 8 p.m. until further notice. 
Miami's eampus is closed until Sunday. The Orange Bowl has deemed structurally safe; 

Florida Panthers' Nathan Horton celebrates a goal against the Pittsburgh Penguins Tuesday. The NHL postponed Florida's next home game because of power shortages in the area. 
a few seetions of the building will be deemed inaccessible to fans for this weekend's game. 
"It has been determined that it is in the best interests of our community to get back to a no.rmal flow of activities as soon as possible," Miami ath­letic director Paul Dee said. "We are aware of the difficul­ties.... But we hope in some small way that playing this game will be positive for the community." 
Moving into the 3:30 p.m. slot is Clemson's visit to Georgia Tech, a game that was scheduled to start at noon. Wilma's looming arrival forced the postponement last week­end of Georgia Tech's visit to Miami, a game that will now be played on Nov. 19 in South Florida. 
"We're focused," Miami quarterback Kyle Wright said. "We're disappointed we didn't get to play last weekend, and we're all excited to get back out there and play." 
Also, Florida International's scheduled home game Saturday against Middle Tennessee has been postponed because of damage caused by Wilma. The game will be rescheduled, with the schools looking at a date in early December. 
Copertino said the mem­brane covering the top of the Panthers' arena was damaged, and some cosmetic repairs ­like replacing ripped awnings -were scheduled to start Wednesday. 
Players have been able to stay in contaet with their fami­lies; forward Joe Nieuwendyk, who did not make Florida's current road trip because of injury, even planned to take some players' wives and small children to an Orlando hotel because of the accessibility of power and other necessities there. 
"Everybody's fine," Copertino said. "There were no tremen­dous losses or damage." 
The Panthers play in Philadelphia on Thursday and will fly home after that game. They'll likely be carrying extra bottled water and other items that are in short supply in South Florida, Copertino said. 
Florida's next scheduled home game is Nov. 9 against the New York Rangers. 
Also, Homestead-Miami Speedway sustained some wind damage, but next month's season-ending NASCAH race will go on as scheduled, the track president said Tuesday. 
High wind blew parts of pit road's garage suites across the track and into the grandstand, damaging the seating area, debris fences and some of the track's new $8.5 miHion light­ing system for night racing. 
There was no structural damage to the racing surface, 
NFL 

Fisher will start as featured back 
Undrafted, third-year pro will replace Green in Packers' backfield 
Associated Press 

GREEN BAY, Wis. -Tony Fisher is a fine third-down running back, whether catch­ing passes out of the backfield, blocking defenders, picking up blitzers or scampering for first downs. 
Now the third-year pro, who 
back Najeh Davenport (ankle) on injured reserve. 
"There's always mixed emo­tions because if you're going to become one of the men, you don't want to have to do it under circumstances of people getting hurt," Fisher said. 
Green went down in the fourth quarter of the Packers' last-second loss at Minnesota on Sunday. 
He finished his injury-filled 
season -and perhaps his career in Green Bay -with just 
255 yards on  77  
rushes with  no  
touchdowns.  

Davenport broke his ankle three weeks ago when he started in place of Green against New Orleans and scored the team's only two touchdown runs this season. 
Fisher, who 
reliable back for us," coach Mike Sherman said. "lie's not Ahman Green, but he is a dif­ferent type of baek and some­body we're going to have to lean on." 
The Packers will also have to lean on newcomer HeShard Lee, who has run seven times for 7 yards. 
The Packers are also deplet­ed at wide receiver, where quarterback Brett Favre has lost Pro Bowler Javon Walker and promising rookie Terrence Murphy for the season and 

went undraft­ed out of "There's always mixed Notre Dame, 
emotions because if
is going to be 

you're going to become
the featured tailback in the one ofthe men, you don't Green Bay 
want to have to do it
Packers' 

under circumstances of
offense with starter Ahman people getting hurt." Green (torn thigh tendon) 
Tony Fisher
set to join No. 

Packers running back 
2 running 
the third quarter of a game against Carolina on Oct. 3, Favre has completed 62 of 87 passes (71 percent) for 715 yards and eight touchdowns with no interceptions and no sacks. 
The best throw in that stretch was a 25-yard rope to Ferguson for a touchdown against New Orleans. 
But he's losing more and more targets every week. 

"Obviously, you can't replace an Ahman Green at this point in the season. You have the cards you're dealt and you have to reshuffle the deck and add a few ifyou can andfigure it out." 
Mike Sherman Packers coach 
has 20 yards on 14 carries so replace a 
could be with­out Hobert Ferguson for up to a month. 
Even with an ever­changing line­up, Favre has been white hot of late, playing like he's 26 and not 36. 
Since mid­way through 
General manag­er Ted Thompson worked out sev­eral running backs and receivers Tuesday with the anticipation of signing one or twi> of them. 
But there are no saviors in the street this late in the season. 
"Obviously, you can't replace an Ahman Green at this point in the season, you can't .Javon Walker," 

far, will make his second career start Sunday when the Packers (1-5) visit Cincinnati (5-2). 
"He's been a very resilient, 
Sherman said. "You have the cards you're dealt and you have to reshuffle thn dnek and add a few if you can and fig­ure it out." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at rhe Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AJ classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
SPRING BREAKERS Book Early and Save Lowest Prices Hottest Destinations BOOK 15=2 FREE TRIPS OR CASH FREE MEALS/PARTIES BY 11/7 Highest Commission Best Travel Perks Ten girls from the Class of 2005 looking for a place within walking distance to ND to rent for the Tennessee weekend. Call Andrea at 651-308-9285. 

NOW HIRING Have a car? Need some extra cash? Jimmy John s is hiring drivers for all shifts. Contact Chuck at 286-0299. 
FoR RENT 
HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6 Bedrooms includes all utilities, local phone, washer/dryer, security sys· tern. $400/student. Office 234-9334, Cell 315-2509 ndstudentrentals.com 

Rooms in private home for rent during ND football weekends or other ND-SMC events. Call 243-0658. 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 3-5 BEDROOM HOMES. GOOD CONDITION. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Call Sean 532-1895. 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE FOR$$: www.victorytickets.com 
BUYING &SELLING ND FOOT­BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911. 
BUY/SELL/TRADE OR SWAP ND FOOTBALL TIX. 289-8048. 
SPRING BREAK -Early Booking Specials-FREE Meals & Drinks ­$50 Deposit -800·234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com 
Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 Days from $299! Includes Meals. MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica From $499! Campus Reps Needed! 

www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800-PromoCode:31 www.springbreak· Loving family seeking adoption. Will YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apart-WALK TO SCHOOL travel.com 1-800-678-6386 pay med. exp. etc, &give much ments available for 06-07 school 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES love to a baby you bring into the year. MMMRENTALS.COM Messenger. tO. world. Call 269-429-3411. Call today 235-7234. 532-1408 
PERSONAL 
NOTICES 

T.O., McNabb. a ref and a Chiquita GREAT HOUSES GREAT UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Banana ... Happy Halloween 
ALL STUDENTS Part Time Work FoR SALE NEIGHBORHOODS not go it alone. If you or someone 
$12.25 base/appt. Flexible sched-andersonNDrentals.com TICKETS you love needs confidential support Team Not Consensual? Not a 
ules around classes, Gain exp. in 1 bdrm condo near ND. All appli-or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Problem looks to improve to 3-0 on 
customer sales &service, ances. $69,900. Call Kim Kollar BLUE &GOLD HOMES. Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more Thursday ... go team 
Conditions apply, all ages 17 & 574-280-8160. CENTURY 21 JIM Best rates for weekend, monthly & WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. information, see our bi-weekly ad in 
older. Call Today 574-273-3835. DUNFEE yearly rentals. 574-250-7653. TOP$$ PAID.. 251-1570. THE OBSERVER. Volunteers needed after Shark attack. 

OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, October 26, 2005 
A.P. Football Top 25 
l!·am record poinls 

1 Southern Cal 7·0 1,615 2 Texas 7-0 1,569 3 Virginia Tech 7-0 1,496 4 Georgia 7-0 1,413 5 Alabama 7-0 1,328 6 Miami 5·1 1,268 7 LSU 5·1 1,219 8 UCLA 7-0 1,170 9 NOTRE DAME 5-2 1,067 10 Florida State 6·1 1,055 11 Penn State 7-1 980 12 Ohio State 5·2 860 13 Boston College 6·1 846 14 Oregon 7·1 750 15 Wisconsin 7·1 698 16 Florida 5·2 617 17 Texas Tech 6·1 557 18 West Virginia 6-1 472 19 Auburn 5·2 456 20 TCU 7-1 400 21 Northwestern 5·2 240 22 Fresno State 5-1 233 23 Tennessee 3-3 165 24 California 6-2 151 25 Michigan 5-3 134 
Big East Men's Soccer 
team record points 

1 USF 7·2·0 21 2 St. Johns 6·1·2 20 3 Cincinnati 5·2·2 17 4 Seton Hall 5·2·2 17 5 Connecticut 5·3·1 16 6 West Virginia 5·3·1 16 7 NOTRE DAME 5·4·1 16 8 Georgetown 5-4-0 15 9 Rutgers 4·4·1 13 10 Villanova 3·4·1 10 11 Syracuse 3-5-1 10 12 Providence 2·3·4 10 13 louisville 2·5·2 8 14 Pittsburgh 2·7·0 6 15 Marquette 1·6·1 4 16 DePaul 1-6-1 4 
s·ig East Women's Soccer 
tnam conf'nrrnc~o overall points 
NOTRE DAME 10-1-0 16·2·0 30 Connecticut 10·1·0 14·3·1 30 Marquette 9·2·0 16·2·1 27 West Virginia 7·2·1 10·4·3 22 Villanova 6-1-3 10-4-4 21 louisville 6·5·0 11·7·0 18 Rutgers 5-6-0 9·9·1 15 Georgetown 4·6·1 11-7·1 13 OePaul 3·5·3 5·8·4 12 Syracuse 3·5·3 4·11·4 12 Seton Hall 3-6·2 1·1·4 11 Pittsburgh 3-6·2 4·10·3 11 USF 2-6-3 7-7-3 9 St. Johns 2·7·2 6·10·3 8 Providence 1-8·2 4·11-2 5 Cincinnati 1·8·2 3·11-4 5 
around the dial 
MLB 
Chicago White Sox at Astros 
7:00 p.m., FOX 
POKER 2005 World Series of Poker 4:00 p.m., ESPN2 
COLLEGE SOCCER 
Indiana vs. NOTRE DAME 
6:00 p.m., ESPNU 

CoMPILED rRoM THE ()BsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
page 17 
MLB 


Associated Press 
HOUSTON -Ton, II, 12, 13 innings. No one eould bnmk through. 
Not thn White Sox, who waitnd 46 years to got baek to the World Series. Not the Astros, who've nevnr bc-1nn here bnforn. 
Finally, in the 14th inning, Gnoll'.Bium won the longPst ganw in World Series histo­ry with a tiebrnaking. two­out solo homnr, and Chicago bnat Houston 7-!'i Wodnnsday morning to movn within a win of a Snrins swnnp and its first titlo sin en 1917. 
Long aftnr Chicago ovor­camo a 4-0 dolidt with livo runs in the fifth inning against Hoy Oswalt and Jason Lano hit a tying dou­ble l'or Houston in tho oighth ofT Dustin Hermanson, Blum batted li1r the first Limo in a World Series with two outs in the 14th and facnd Ezequiol Astaeio, llouston 's snVfmlh pitdwr. 

With nearly all the seats still full in Minute Maid Park -and with thn roof' still opnn -Blum snnt a 2­0 pitch from Astado down tho right-field linn, and the ball sailnd over thn wall. As the limner Astro cirded the bases, llouston manager Phil Garner slamnwd a stool in thn dugout. 
The White Sox picked up Blum from San Dingo on July 31, right before the trading dnadlinn. A startm· with llouston in 2002-0:~. hn's bnen mostly a backup since then and nnterml tlw game in the 13th as part. of a double-switch. 
Astacio allownd Chicago to load the bases on two singles and a walk, then forend in a run by walking Chris Widgnr on a :~-2 pitch. 
llouston put runnnrs at. tho corners in thn bottom half whnn Orlando Palmeiro walked with onn out and Brad Ausmus roar.lwd wlwn shortstop Juan Urihn misplaynd his two-out groundPr l'or an nrror. 
Mark Bunhrle. who pitehnd seven innings in (;amn 2 on Sunday night.. canw in, Chicago's ninth pitrlwr and the 17th of tlw game, both Snrins rm:ords. 
Adam l•:vnrett tlwn popped to shortstop li1r llw tina I out at I :20 a.m. local tinw. At !'i hours, 41 min­utns, it was tlw longPsl gamn by Limn in Snries his· tory. It matrlwd tlw longest hy innings, a Baht> Huth eomplotn ganw l'or tlw Boston Hod Sox against Brooklyn in 1')14. 
IN BRIEF 

IOC meets to discuss the 
2012 games 

LAUSANNE, Switznrland -Tho impasse over doping rules at thn Turin Winter Gamns. tlw possibln inclusion of' women's boxing and other now nvents in 2012 and a lined ruling in Jeronw Young's six-year-old drug ease are being considered by Olympic leaders this wonk. 
The International Olympic Committee nxocutive board convnnos today for its first fullmenting since the July sossion in Singapore when London was awarded thn 2012 Garnos and baseball and softball worn votnd oil' the program. 
Topping the agonda for the thrno­day meeting is an update Friday from Italian organiznrs on planning for thn Winter Olympics, which open in thn northorn eity of Turin on Feb. I 0. 
Aftnr thn most reennt onsitn inspnc­tion in Snptnmbnr, the IOC reportnd that preparations wnro "noarly eom­pleto." llowover, linandal probloms and doping issuns have clouded tho picturn. 
Competition heats up at 
Swiss Indoors tournament 
ASEL, Switzerland -Third-snodod Juan Carlos Ferrero of Spain eased through the opening round of the Swiss Indoors in only 69 minutos on Tunsday, boating Filippo Volandri of Italy 6-2, 6-4. 
The 2003 French Opnn champion, is looking for his first title this snason aftnr rnaching the final at Barc:c1lona and Vionna. Last wonk, ho lost in the lirst round of tho Madrid Masters to Max Mirnyi of Belarus. 
"I folt protty good on rourt. I'm playing good indoors for thn momnnt," Forrero said. 
"Tho first set went almost too quick­ly and the second snt not so easy to f'inish." he addod. rderring to Volandri gotting his anklo tapnd mid­way through the final set. 
Thn l'ourth-snnded Fernando Gonzalnz, who reac:hod the l'inal in 2002, dnl'nated Italy's Andreas Snppi 7-6 (:~), 6-3. Tho 25-year-old from Chilo has won ATP titlns this season Nnw Znaland and the Netherlands. 
NBA's Granik steps down to 
assist David Stern next season 
NI·:W YOHK-Buss Granik will leavn his job as NBA dnputy mmmis­simwr al'ter this ynar to lweonw a senior adviser to David Stern. c;ranik will rnmain the loagun 's main repro­sentativn to USA Basknthall and board chairman of thn BaskPlhall II all of' Famn as wnll as an aidn to tho commissioner. Granik is in his :~Oth ynar with the NBA. 
"It was long nnough. I ti~nl l'vn ron­trihutod as much as I can." c;ranik said Tunsday. "''ve donn my lmst. II. just snnrlH~d likn t.lw right tinw for nw to maybn takn a stnp back. 
"I want to takn it a littln bit nasinr for a whiln and t.lwn s•H' what elsn I might want to do." 
Tlw announc:nment of emne on tlw first day of tlw NBA's annual Board of' Gov•~rnors nwnting. Anot.lwr change romPs Wndnnsday, wlwn Phoenix Suns owrwr Jerry Colangdo will step down al'tnr two tPrms as chairman or tlw board and his sue­enssor will bn dwsnn.­
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, October 26, 2005 
CLUB SPORTS 

Lavery prep.ares for spring vvith triathalon and 111arathon 
Cycling captain ran Chicago road race in 2 hours, 49 minutes 
Special to the Observer 

Cycling captain Mike Lavery trained for the spring road races this fall by competing in the U.S. Half Triathlon Championships September 25 in Smithville, Mo., and in the Chicago Marathon on Oct. 9. 
In the U.S. Half Triathlon, Lavery placed first in the 20-24 age division and seventh over­all nationally. Nineteen qualify­ing events were held nation­wide to determine the field for the national championship. Lavery competed against the best from across the country. 
In the LaSalle Bank Chicago Marathon, Lavery finished in 2 hours, 49 minutes and 23 sec­onds to place 290th among over 40,000 registered run­ners. With these two exception­al finishes, Lavery is well on his way to an outstanding sea­son in road racing. 
MEN'S WATER POLO 
Rolfs Aquatics will be the venue this weekend for the Great Lakes Championships. The Irish will host the Toledo at 11:30 a.m. on Saturday and then take on Ball State at 7 
p.m. The conference title game -a much anticipated and expected showdown between national powers Grand Valley State and Notre Dame -is scheduled at 11:30 
a.m. on Sunday. Admission is free. Grand Valley travels with a huge following and it is hoped that Irish fans will pack Holfs for the finals. 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
The Notre Dame Invitational is scheduled this Saturday in the Rolfs Sports Hecreation Center. The Irish will play Michigan State at 10:30 a.m., and Grand Valley State at 
11:30 a.m. in pool play. Times and opponents for afternoon play will be determined by morning results. Afternoon competition is scheduled for 1:30, 2:30, 3:30, and 4:30p.m. 
NFL 

Giants owner and league pioneer Mara dies 
Associated Press  the Green Bays and Pittsburghs  Said  eommissionPr  Paul  generation, Mara, elected to the  integrity and willingness to share  
of the league.  Tagliabue: "Wellington Mara rep­ Pro Football Hall of Fame in  with small market clubs paved  
NEW YOHK  -Every NFL fan  It put the NFL at the top of  resented the heart and soul of  1997, died of cancer at his home  the way for eeonomic sueeess."  
owes a huge debt to Wellington  America's sports hierarchy.  the National Football League. He  in Hye, the team said.  In 1989, Mara and group of  
Mara, who died Tuesday at 89.  "He shaped nearly every rule  was a man of deep conviction  One of Mara's greatest contri­ older owners wanted Rozelle's  
So does every owner, executive  and philosophy we have in our  who stood as a beacon of integri­ butions came in the early 1960s  suecessor to be Jim Finks, then  
and player.  league today,"  ty.  When Well  when  he  and  brother  Jack  the New Orleans general manag­ 
Mara, who joined the New York Giants as a ballboy the day his father purchased the team 80 years ago and bm~ame co-owner  said Ernie Accorsi, the Giants general manager. "Most  "Wellington Mara represented the heart and soul of the National  Mara stood to speak at a league meeting, the room would  agreed to share television rev­enue on a league wide basis soon after Pete Rozelle became com­missioner. That deal allowed the  er, rather than Tagliabue, then a league lawyer. Mara thought the league should be run by a foot­ball man.  
as a teenager, was the face of the _ franchise for more than a half  of all, he was the moral con­ Football League.,,  become silent with anticipation  NFL to thrive and remains in place today.  But Mara and several other "old-guard" owners finally  
century. But he also was the patriarch of the NFL, a man who was will­ science of the National Footba.ll League.  PauiTagliabue NFL commissioner  because all of us knew we were going to hear  "Wellington Mara was a true pioneer who understood what it took to make the National  agreed to break a stalemate or fou-r months by throwing their votes to Tagliabue. Mara became  
ing for  more than 40 years to  I le now joins the  profound  Football League great," said  one of the new eommissioner's  
split the millions in television  pantheon of incredible men who  insights born of eight decades of  Gene Upshaw, exeeutive direetor  staunchest supporters, a  man  
revenues he could have made in  made this league what it has  league experience."  of the NFL Players Association.  Tagliabue often leaned on for  
the nation's largest market with  become."  The last of the NFL's founding  "llistory will show that his vision,  adviee.  


A.faiden ofOrleans: a BayHl! Thriller by Joseph Patrick Roger~ is a fast-paced, romantic suspense novel that can be enjoyed_ by readers of all ages. The novel has a Catholic theme, and the action occurs in the present-day New Orleans area. 
19-year-old Lori Faire finds herself as the focal point in the battle between good and evil. Lori has a special devotion to Saint Joan of Arc. She is helped by Mikhail Xavier, who proves to be a powerful defender. 
For more information, visit the author's website atjoerogers.homestead.com 
Excerpt: At first Mikhail did not pay much attention to their 
Mikhail sat down on a white, wrought-iron bench. chant. Then, when they repeated the verses, he took While he relaxed there, the sound of children's voices notice. caught his attention. Through a few trees and bushes, That is the oddest rhyme for children to be reciting, he could see several small girls and boys playing he thought. He rose from the bench and moved with a jump rope. As they jumped, they recited a through the light shrubbery toward the children. sing-song chant: They were only out of his sight for a matter of sec­
"Kingdoms ofdarkness, Kingdoms (~flight, onds, but when he came around a bush, they were Guided by angels ofpower and might; gone. Once in deep Heaven a great war was fought, Where could they be'? He walked around another And now to the earth, the battle is brought; row of bushes; no one was there, though. Hearing On a holy vessel, you must now sail; the telephone ringing in his condo, he trotted back For the sake ofthe Maiden, you must prevail." inside, still puzzling over the mystery of the disap­
pearing children. 
Maiden ofOrleans: a Bayou Thriller is available on Atnaz~~n.com, B~rne~nonoble..cem (iJn.com ), and' ~~Hks ..a-ntHli·~n.cilnl 
Wednesday, October 26, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
MLB 

Astros lack black 
presence in Series 
Evenings ofPrayer from Around the World Experience authentic prayer and meditation as part ofa series exploring the heliefand practices of the world's great faith traditions. JEWISH PRAYER Rabbi Steven Leapman Thursday, October 27 7-7:45 pm 330 Coleman-Morse Sponsored by : Campus Ministry lntemational Student Services & Activities FOG Graduate Residences Graduate Student Union  
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE nAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN DUBLIN, IRELAND FALL 2006, SPRING 2007, AY 2006-7, SUMMER 2006 INFORMATION MEETING WITH CLAUI)IA KSELMAN ANI) I~ETURNEES OF THE PROGRAM THURSDAY,OCTOBER27 5:30PM 129 DBRT Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15, 2005 FOR FALL, SPRING, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2006-7 MARCH I, 2006 FOI{ SUMMER 2006 Applications Available www/nd.edul-·intlstud  

MLB announcer sees a challenge for league and commissioner 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -.Joe Morgan worries about the l'aee of basn­ball. Watehing the World Series, the Hall of Farner is troubled by what hn sees. 
His old team, the Houston Astros, is down 2-0 to the Chieago White Sox, but it's not their lineup that eoneerrrs Morgan. It's their makeup. 
The Astros arc the first 
World Series team in more 
than a half-eentury with a ros­
ter that doesn't inelude a singln 
blaek player. 

"Of eourse I notiecd it. I low eould you not?" Morgan said while the Astros took batting praetiee before the opener in Chieago. "But they're not the · only ones. There are two or three teams that didn't have any Afriean-Ameriean players this year." 
Morgan said it's a prediea­ment and a ehallenge for Major League Baseball. While more players from around the world are making it to the majors ­Japan, Korea, for example ­the number of blaeks is dcelin­ing. 
"It's a daunting task to get Afriean-Ameriean kids into baseball, and I don't see the trend ehanging," he said. 
The last World Series team without a blaek player was the 1953 New York Yankees. It wasn't until 1955 -eight years after Jaekie Hobinson broke the eolor barrier in 1947 -that Elston I toward bncame the first blaek in Yankee pin­stripes. 
Black players aeeounted for just about 9 perecnt or big league rosters this season. 
"We know that we have to work to do," Commissioner Bud Selig said Tuesday. "We'll eontinue to intensify our efforts. I'm very aware, I'm cxtrcmnly sensitive about it, and I feel badly about it. But we need to get to work to ehange things." 
Astros general rnanagnr Tim 
Purpura agrnes. 
"I think it's a huge, huge problem for baseball." he said. "The pool of Afrkan-Amnrkan players just isn't there. And as baseball bneomns morn col­-­lege-oriented in its draft, thorn aren't a lot or players to pick. 
"The Afriean-Anwriean ath­letes are going into other sports," he said. 
The most recent survey by the NCAA, taken during the 2003-04 season, showed that only 6 pnrcent of Division I baseball playnrs were blaek. Hall' of' the men's basketball players were black. as were 44 percent of football players. 
Houston has a half-doz1~n llispanic players -it was the first team to open a baseball academy in Venezuela, about a dozen years ago. Beneh eoaeh Cedi Cooper is blaek. 
Outfielders Charles Gipson and Charlton Jimerson, both blaek, played for the Astros during the regular season. 
The White Sox have three blaek players on their Series roster: Jermainc Dye, Carl Everett and Willie llarris, along with eoaehes Tim Haines and Harold Baines. 
Thny also have night Ilispanie players and Japannsn second baseman Taduhito Iguchi. 
"We're diverse beeause we'rn looking for the bnst in talent and eharaeter," gnrwral man­ager Ken Williams said bnl'ore the Series started. "It just hap­pened that way. I eould eare lnss what the makeup or the dub is as long as it works as a whole." 
Williams is the only blaek general managnr in the majors. A former big league outfielder, he joined the Whitn Sox in 1992 as a seout, confident lw eould find players in the inner eities. Aftnr a ynar of trying, Williams felt as if he'd failnd. 


Please recycle The Observer. 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, October 26, 2005 Wednesday, October 26, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 


winning two matclws. The sPn­ior 1:aptain defeated HPndhina
ITA 

l'an•kh of Wnstorn Michigan in continued from page 24 tho first round by a 4-(,, (,-2, 6-4 score.;\ 7-5, 0-(,, 7-b (7-:~) turned in solid results. win ovnr Bnatrix Csordas of 
Notre Dame advanced two DPI'aul seeurPd a bnrth in tlw doubles teams· to the semil'i­round of 1(,. Csordas was nals. Brook Buek and Keley snednd 13th in thn tournanwnt Tefft advanced to the smnis on and is rankml No. 117 in tlw the strength of a Y-H (7-21 1:ountry. Conrwlly's run PIHIPd quarterl'inal win with at (J-0, h-2 over M<u:all loss to llarkins and "We've been a little NorthwnstPrn's Brianna KnuP of l'rousis.
up and down Ihis
Illinois. L o u d n r h a <' k
fall."
Buck and Tef't, was r.omplimPn­tlw tournament's l.ary of Connnlly's No. 4 sned. fnll in play.
Jay Louderback 
the semi l'i n a Is to "Laurnn had a
Christian Thompson, who recently competed in the ITA Midwest Tournament but Irish coach 
thP top-sendnd gn>a.t tou rna-
Sweet 16, returns a serve against Duke on Feb. 18. 
Cristelln Grier nwnt. The win in and Alexis l'rousis from the second round was big for NorthwostPrn H-4. hPr OVPr tfw SPPdPd playPr," liP 

Lauren Connolly and Kiki said. Stastny rncordnd a solid H-5 Christian Thompson also win over Indiana's No. 1 team advanend to the round of I(, of Sarah Batty and Laura bnfore being upsnt by Gnorgia McGaffigan in t.hn quarterlinal Hosn of Northwnstmn h-:~. (J-2. round. Tho lloosier tnam was Tho Irish will eompetP in l.lw
isa®Credit Card 
seeded second in the tourna­final wookend of th<> fall ment and is ranked llJth sclwdule lwginning Nov. :~. TIH' nationally. Thompson twins will play at 
Connelly and Stastny were the National Indoor tripped up hy the Wisconsin Championships, while tho r<'sl team of Nicolo Beck and of the ll>am will trav<d to tlw Caitlin Burke in tlw semis, Univl'rsity of Illinois to com­falling H-4. pote in th<> Midwost Blast tour-
The doublns results this namnnt.. · wnekend encouraged As tho fall season rwars its Loudorback. end, Louderback Pvaluat<>d his 
"Both teams playnd really team's progress. well," he said. "It was good for "Wo'vn bet>n a lilt.IP up and them to play against other down this fall," lw said. schools' No. 1 tnams too; thn "Wt>'ve had somn good results com petition was really good. hern and tlwrn in singiPs and Wilh those two tnams and the haw~ hnnn prntty solid in dou­Thompsons, doubles will de!i­hlns. I think by thn limP thP nitely be a strength of our spring snason hits wn will he team this year." putting it all tognthnr."
With our Visa® Credit 
Connelly also had a solid tournament in singles and Contact Ryan Kiefer at
Card, you 'II enjoy a 
advanced to the round of 16, rkiefer I @nd.edu 
low interest rate, and 
Eight. but the tit.IP went to
no annual fee. 

0 
a n 0 t hn r rr n s h Ill a n ' II 0 Ill' attacker Sarah Sosolik. continued from page 24 Senior baekl'ield stalwart Maura Schoen was nominatl'd 
Historic 

In addition, you can 
league play while allowing for tho MIAA dofensivn playnr only 14 goals. They have the of the wonk honor as well, but
view your current 
third-best plus/minus ratio in lost out to llope goalkel'p<'rbalance, and make the league, behind perennial llolly Nestle.
NOTRE DAME 
powerhouses Calvin and Hope. Saint Mary's played Oil!> or Much of that success on its toughest games of the year offense can be contributed to last Saturday in a 1-0 loss at You ca·n bank on us freshman standout Lauren the hands of Calvin CollngP. Hinton, who earned the Week Calvin has allowed a singlnto be better Seven MIAA offensive playor goal all season and its ganw of the weok honor. against tho Bnlles was orw of 
online payments. FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
Hinton also was nominated its eloso~t fought in snvoral 
Independent of the University 

for the same award in W1~ek snasons. 

,. 

l,.......,..,._,.._,......,.........,...............""""'..,_""-..,_._, ·---.---.__...........-,..,~ 
\N[f1([ffir~~~~~ 
-Free Chlcll-111-A sandwiches while supplies last <1...1!".. 

-compete In shooting contest with Notre Dame Plavers -Watch 05-06 Walk-On Trvouts 


-Interact w/ team & coaches -Win prizes including... FREE 2005-06 men's basketball student booklet. autograph gear. dinner with Coach Brev & more -Student season booklets are $60.00each 
Wristbands will be given out at the start olthe event to ensure vour voucher lor vour 05-06 men's basketball student season booklets on a'1irst come first serve" basis. Each Notre Dame student can bring up to 2Notre Dame ID's. 
"As much as wn f'Pit disap­
pointnd by tho Calvin loss, I 
think we also took somo moas­
ure of positive fenling away 
from thn fact that wn playnd 
so w~>ll as a team and dof<>rHI­
ed so well as a to am." 
Mackenzie said. "I think to be 
honost, from top to bottom, 
they were a bettnr tnam t.han 
we are." 
Adrian has three eonfen~ne<~ 
wins on th<> season, two 
against eellar-dwnllnr Tri­
Stat~> Univt>rsity and tlw third 
in a 1-0 win ovPr Oliv1~t. Olivnt 
is eurTPntly on tlw lwnls of tlw 
BPIIns for third plaen, only OJH' 
win away from pulling into a 
dead lwat with tlwm. 

Thn~n ganws n~main on t.lw ·sdwdule and all thr<><> an• a must-win for thn lkll<>s. 
".Just stay fonrsPd on play­
ing ont> ganw at a limP as WI> 
go int.o this last portion of our 
snason," Maeknnzin said, 
dnscribing tlw Bcll<>s' at.t.itudP 
on thP gamns lnft to play. 
"Takn it. IJIIP ganw at a tim<> 
and bn all businnss. I think 
tlwy an~ forusnd and rnady to 
finish thn snason." 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 

----------:-;---;-­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 26, 2005 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
similar fashion, winning the first two games before drop­ping the next two and finally winning the fifth 15-13. 
"It was almost like instant replay out there," Belles eoaeh Julie Schroeder-Biek said. 
The Belles came out strong and dietated play throughout much of the first game. After struggling in the second before pulling out a victory, the Belles fell flat in games three and four. 
"We really struggled to get in our grove in the third and fourth game," Schroeder-Biek said. 
The Belles' sluggish play continued into the fifth as the Belles trailed 9-5 in the final game 
"It was an

before winning 10 end it clicked." of the final 14 incredibly One Belle who points in the was playing her
important win 
match to secure , natural position
or us.

tho victory. fi was Marisa Gross 
Playing close at Right Side. games has become Julie Schroeder-Biek Gross recorded a a habit for a Saint personal high 18
Belles coach 

Schroeder-Biek recognized the magnitude of the win in relation to the conference standings. 
"It was an incredibly impor­tant win for us," Schroeder­Hick said. 
The Belles' struggles were partly due to new positioning. The team was forced to imple­ment changes following last week's injury to setter Amanda David. Michelle Turley stepped into the setter role last week and has played well despite her inexperience at the position. Turley record­ed 57 assists in Tuesday's vic­tory. 
"Michelle has a higher set than Amanda, so the hitters had to adjust their timing a bit," Schroeder-Hick said. "Everyone has to think about different things in their new positions. We struggled with this at times tonight, but in the 
Mary's. The team is 5-2 in live-game matches, and four of the Belles' five conferenee wins have come in five-game matches. 
Sehroeder-Biek said her team did not bring its best game Tuesday. 
"We didn't play our strongest," she said. "We shouldn't have struggled as much as we did. Kalamazoo is a good program, but they are in a rebuilding year right now." 
Despite the sluggish play, the Belles pulled through with a crucial vietory that put them in so I e possession of fifth place in the MIAA with a 5-10 eonference reeord, 11-16 overall. With one regular sea­son game remaining against Albion, Saint Mary's has the opportunity to secure its high­est finish in the MIAA since 1999. when the Belles finished fourth. 
digs and was a 

key contributor to the Belles victory. 
"That was really a confi­dence builder for Marisa," Sehroeder-Biek said. "She really stepped up and played hPr position. I thought shP was one of the solid rocks out there for us tonight." 
Kristen Playko also played a key role for the Belles, rBcord­ing 17 kills and 21 digs. Shelly Bender had 16 kills and Anne Cusack led the Belles' defense with 31 digs. 
With an exciting victory in hand Tuesday, the Belles were 
confident  heading  into  
Thursday's  contest  with  
Albion.  

"We're glad we pulled that one out tonight, and we are excited about the challenge later this week," Sehroeder­Biek said. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 
~\YuU@! \~Y)®@!tro®~@!&'~~ ~!lU [ffi©tfflle!illuc§> ~l'.JllFlFJlJ©~ 
Present this Ad for $4 Burritos ALL DAY 
(11am-midnight) 
Now open on Sundays from 2pm-1 Opm 
1724 N. Ironwood Dr. 
(next to Nick's Patio) 
Hoosiers 
continued from page 24 
program into a Big Ten pow­erhouse. They are 9-1-5 (2-1­3 Big Ten) and have not lost since Sept. 30 to Penn State -a 2-1 defeat that is their only loss of the season. Indiana is coming ofT a 2-2 tie against Ohio State on Sunday but demonstrated its ol"fen­sive explosiveness in a 6-0 demolition of Butler on Oct. 19. 
The Irish finished a fall break conference road trip with a 2-1 reeord to put them at 9-5-2 overall this year (5­4-1 Big East). They are tied for second in the conference's Blue Division with two games to go in the regular season. 
Clark is hoping to establish the team's first three-game winning streak this year. 
"We've got ninn wins but I don't think we've strung three together this year," hn said. "It's certainly possible, more than possible." 
The Irish and the Hoosiers have danced around each other, each traveling to the other's campus to play in a hosted tournament but never meeting head-to-head. Notre Dame finished 1-1 against two then-Top 10 teams at the adidas/IU Credit Union Classic in Bloomington. In that tour­nament, the Hoosiers finished with two wins. 
At the Mike Bcrtieelli Memorial Tournament, held at Alumni Field earlier this fall, 
the Irish l"in­"This isn't ings. ished with two pressure, this is "This is for me wins and the as good as
just playing in a
Hoosiers went 1-Indiana as I've 
great game. " 
0-L seen, and this is "We go to their a very talented tournament, team," Clark
Bobby Clark 
they come to said.
Irish coach 
ours, it's a lot of respect," Clark said. "I think they know us very well and we know them very well ... thBre's not a lot of secrets out there." 
The Irish have struggled to put wins together this season, dropping some heartbreaking games where they dominated but COUidn 't find thD back of the net. The team has been looking for a marquee win to ride into the NCAA Tournament, and Indiana has 
the potential to be that matchup. 
"Obviously the Indiana game is a big regional game," Clark said. "It's a big game on the national level -it eer­tainly would be a great scalp to take, for sure, and it would certainly enhance our NCAA tournament chances." 
Indiana currently holds the • 
No. 5 spot in the 
national rank­
Clark said his team is thriving under the pressure. 
"This is the kind of pressure you really enjoy," he said. "This isn't pressure, this is just playing in a groat game ... It doesn't matter how we play before, it matters how we play !today]." 
The Irish will kick oiT at (> 
p.m. tonight at Alumni Field. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

LAST CHANCE! Concession Stand Training 
Tuesday **October 25th **12pm & 4pm 
Wednesday **October 26th **12pm & 4pm 
LaFortune Student Center Ballroom
Each concession stand group must have at least two students trained 
*All training from the spring is still valid for the 2005 Football season 
Questions? Jennifer Rager 
Student Activities Office jragerl@nd.edu 

First 500 fans wm•a...IIIIIIA liP balm on aleash 
t ........L aNO Luggage tag sponsored bv 
sponsored bv 
IVedllesdaV Oct. 26 Saturday Oct. 29 Indiana at 6:00pm vs. Seton Hall at First 400 fans receive 
~a 


Wednesday, October 26, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 
CROISSANTWORLD 

5TEVE 1 HE.'/ STE:'If t 
1T""'€-~ ARE 

fZ-REM£M&R ME 7 
UC::!I-\, STEVE:, 

II'S -rtJ.:>I I WAS 
~E.AL ---rb\.1<-:tH. 
AfTE~ (JRPI)UATI

(\ Sf:t\1 I 0 ~ lJ'('::,T 
\ -rooK t-.. -.JoB

'It-f\K \ U"E.D l N 
A~ A lt..MP /XJ A

'jOU~ 1-\AL..LWA ~ . 
\ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Mattress 64 Stroke of luck problem
1 Particular 65 Monopoly stack 34 Bubbling over 
66 "The very _!"
5 Particular, for 
36 Neptune's realm

short 67 Like a celebrity 37 Essayist's alias 
9 Data processing 68 Bronx/thonx room 38 Like this puzzle? rhymer (not really) 
14 Looking up 69 Grown-up eft 42 Without a
15 Celestial bear partner DOWN16 Geneva's river 
43 Arthur Godfrey 

1 Modern-day played it17 Petri dish filler theocracy
44 Nobelist Bohr 

18 Wife of Jacob 2 Take-out 
45 A.A.R.P.

19 Give the slip to 3 Biblical twin
members 20 What this 4 Loy of filmdom 
46 Treated withpuzzle has? 

contempt 5 Element in(not really) gunpowder49 Church 
23 Give to 6 Victimizer 
50 Liberal arts maj.

(promPt) 7 Actor Morales 51 about24 Stan who 8 "High Hopes" created Spider-53 What this puzzle lyricist
Man is composed of? (not really) 9 Aspiring doc's
25 Thanksgiving program
61 Super success 10 Daphnis's love side dish 62 Life of Riley28 In perfect 11 Boorish sort
formation 63 Yawn producer 12 "Me,: myself ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-:-:T:-r:=-:::"1 13 Bone to pick 
21 Stud declaration -:-:+-:+.,.,....,:-! 22 Twinkle 
~~!lllt!~~··~!!:t!l!.m~-; 25 some two-
masters 

···~~~!nm~:P.~JJ·· 21 1s dreamy
29 A tribe of Israel 
~~~~~~~~~~+=~~ 
30 "_-haw!" t2l:Ouu~••m.~~-~~~ 31 Built for speed 
-=+-=+::-1"!!!'1 32 Steward's beat 
33 Like a windbag 
..;;..L.;..;.&...;;~ 35 Suffix with duct 
THE OBSERVER 
I HATE IT Tl-\f'. ~<._E:.I 

I MISS No~E. ~ME 1 \ R.E:Au.'f NE.ED 1--\tD£ ME IN 'IOUK. \0 <::t.E:.T TO LUN(.H. tx>F:.M {<.OOt'), STEVE.. \ '\f\1 ANT t?,AcK tN II\¥-E MC l·o '/OU 
C.lASSE.:'S. \ CAf'I-1­SUK\JI\IE Of'\ 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events ih the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

.-+.:;+.:~-..:,:+=-HI-:-! 26 Can't take 

Puzzle by David Ellman  
37 QB Manning  47 Implements of  54 Bruins' sch.  
39 New Mexico's state flower  western justice 48 Catch in a net  55 Ratty area 56 It's inert  
40 Ref's declaration, for short 41 Provide funds for 46 In cubbyholes  50 Anti-vampire tool 52 Maid Marian's man 53 Mutt's buddy, in the comics  57 Agent Scully 58 Hectored 59 Was in a no-win situation? 60 Candidate's goal  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, ny1imes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: ny1imes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGlRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlan Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary won;fs. 
AM DAM 
CIJ I I 
<02005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
BEDIP 
j
I I [ tJtCARCIT j
IJ [ I I 
www.jumble.com 
CLOPEM j 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Sara Lumholdt, 21; Tracy Nelson, 42; Helen Reddy, 64; Michael Soltis, 34 
Happy Birthday: So much can be accomplished ifyou can control your envy, jealousy and anger this year. Forget the past and start thinking progressively. This is your time to get things moving, and those who love you should understand that and support your actions. Your numbers are 16, 22, 25, 33, 39, 40 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You need to discover who you are and what you can do. Take adifferent approach and let your creative imagination now. Luck is with you, and money will come your way.***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your stubbornness will lead to difficulties in both your personal and professional life. Admit you are wrong and do something 
-
nice for the ones you love. Less said and more done will keep you out of trouble.
.. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can learn by watching what others do, and that will keep you on top of what needs to be done. Work at making yourself the best that you can be. Love is in the picture. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't take any chances when it comes to money. Lending or borrowing will not turn out well. Loss is evident, but ifyou are smart and invest wisely you can secure your future. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't make rash decisions, especially in your personal life. Your emotions will lead you down a hurtful path. This is not the day to discuss your concerns if you want to win or make your point be known. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can expect to have problems with your boss or an officer if you break the rules. You will want to do everything fast today. and that may lead to mistakes. Stick to what you know and do best. Avoid gossip at all costs. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Financial matters should be dealt with in aconservative manner. An unusual business deal must be considered. Moderation and simplicity will lead you down the right path.**** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Focus on the task at hand. You will have plenty of time to deal with other matters once you have accomplished what really needs to be done. Don't expect to get a lot of help from your partner today. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll be the center of attention at any event you attend. Your worldly views and ability to tell astory will create interest. Make sure you get any offers in writing. Empty promises are apparent.***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Follow through with all the little odds and ends that need to be tidied up. A change in location will lead to meeting someone unique. Changes with a friendship you are involved in will be necessary. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Problems with partnerships will be mind­boggling. Avoid adiscussion that will lead to a point of no return. Take a little time for yourself to ligure out what to do. * * PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't trust anyone to do your job for you. You will be misunderstood by those who want you to fail. Don't bother with people who are not on your team, but instead build astronger bond with those who think the same way as you. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are dedicated. loyal and insightful. You can see the big picture, are inquisitive and won't give up until you get what you want. 
Eugenia's Weh sites: astroadvice.comfor jim, eugenialast.comjiJr con.ficlcntial comultatiom 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 


D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ 
...

City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER. 
PORTS
Wednesday, October 26, 2005 
page 24 
MEN's SoccER 

..... 

In-state showdown 
After two straight national titles, ~he Hoosiers visit the Irish today 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 

An in-state rival that also happens to be the two-time, back-to-hack defending national champion? 
As the Irish attempt to secure a berth in the NCAA Tournament, today's traditionally heated game with the Ind'iana Hoosiers becomes even bigger with the possible postseason implications. 
To up the pressure even more, ESPNU will be broadcasting the game, set to kick off at 6 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
"In many ways you like to say that it is any other game but its not," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "Let's be honest, they are the national champs coming in-they're an interstate rivalry ... It's a very healthy rivalry that we've enjoyed over the last few years." 
The Hoosiers have won the last two national titles in men's soccer and have built a dynamic 
see HOOSIERS/page 22 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

-Catrina Thompson wins berth in ITA Midwest 
earning an automatic berth Irish coach Jay Louderback errors in the semifinal, but it qualified them for the Indoor
By RYAN KIEFER 

this weekend. was pleased with Thompson's .was a very close match." Championships.
Sports Writer 

Thompson advanced to the play and her good fortune, Thompson will also compete For the rest of the Irish play­semifinal round of the ITA saying she was a few points in the doubles tournament at ers, last weekend's Midwest The luck of the Irish was Midwest Championships before away from winning her semifi­the Indoor Championships in Championships gave them an with Catrina Thompson this falling in three sets to nal match. November with her sister opportunity to qualify for the weekend. Northwestern's Alexis Prousis "She didn't play as well in Christian. The sisters won the Indoor Championships next 
The junior learned Tuesday 6-7 (2-7). 6-1, 6-4. A win the semis as she did in the first doubles grand slam of the month. Although no other Irish that she had received one of would have secured an auto­quarters when she beat the year earlier this month at the players were able to qualify, the at-large berths to the ITA matic berth in the season's DePaul player IGergana ITA All-American many of those on the roster Indoor Championships, despite second grand slam beginning Ganeva]," Louderback said. Championships. Their per­falling one match short of Nov. 3. "She just made a few more formance in that tournament see ITA/page 21 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Team prevails in five games 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's was glad 
history  repeated itself  
Tuesday  night  in  
Kalamazoo, Mich.  

In a match eerily similar to the one the teams played last month, the Belles pre­vailed over Kalamazoo College in five games, with a final score of 30-21, 30­28, 28-30, 25-30, 15-13. 
The Belles defeated the Hornets (2-13, 6-22) in their previous match in 
see BELLES/page 22 

SMC SOCCER 

Belles can m_ake history with a win over Adrian 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
The mantra is "one.game at a time" as the Belles soccer team looks to secure its first third-place MIAA l'inish in team history. 
And the next step on the road to cementing their place in the Saint Mary's record book takes them to the con­fines of bottom-tier Adrian College. The last time these two teams faced off. the Belles walked off their home field with a 5-0 trouncing. 

"It doesn't matter what we have done up to this point," Belles coach Caryn Mackenzie said. "To make the goals we have set for ourselves we need to focus on playing well and playing with our best effort against Adrian, Tri­State, then at Kalamazoo." 
The Belles currently hold a 7-5-1 record in MIAA confer­ence play and an 8-7-1 overall standing. They have found the back of the net 29 times in 
see HISTORIC/page 21 


WORLD SERIES NHL NFL WORlD SERIES OlYMPICS 
Nfl 
LLI 

(,) NFL icon Mara White Sox 7 z Houston is the first The league announcep dies at 89 Astros 5 International Olympic Former Irish running
c:c

_. team in the Fall Classic it would postpone Committee executive 
back Tony Fisher will since 1953 without a Saturday's Panthers-Longtime New York Chicago won the board will address drug 
replace Ahman Green as= c:c black player. Capitals game in Florida. owner helped shape longest game in the Fall scandals in Switzerland. 
the Packers' featured today's NFL. Classic's history. 
tailback.
!;: 
page 16

page 19 page 18 page 18 page 17 page 18 





