
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE 106 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16,2005 
Appeals court upholds ACE funds 
fudge overturns 2004 decision, supports govern1nental backing for Notre Dame program 
By JULIE BENDER 
News Writer 
An appeals eourt upheld fed­~~ral funding for Notre Dame's tllaehnr-tra·ining program, Allianen for Catholie Education IACEI. last Tunsday. overturn­ing a 2004 
ruling that See Also t h e AmnriCorps­"Students 
basnd pro­anticipate ACE gram violatnd 
program
a constitu­tional ban on placements" nstablish­
page3
rnont or reli­gion by awarding tuition voudwrs to partici­pants. 
In a :~-0 decision, U.S. Court of AppPals for the District. of Columbia Circuit Judge Haymond Handolph stated that taxpaynr support of religious sl'lwols is r.onstitutional as long as govPrnnwnt funding gons to "programs or true pri­vati\ rhoir.n." lin wrotl\ that thl\ 
government is not promoting religion by funding programs such as ACE. which provide teachers for disadvantaged Catholic schools. 
"We're obviously delighted with the court's decision," said John Staud. ACE director. "It was a unanimous decision, which is very important for ACE and for other faith-based organizations affected by the ruling." 
This decision reversed a 2004 ruling by U.S. District Court Judge Gladys Kessler 
that  the  Corporation  for  
National  and  Community  
Service.  which  runs  the  

AmnriCorps program, had vio­lated the constilutional ban on establishment of religion by awarding fedoral funding to ACE tnachors who only servn in Catholic schools. 
Tho 2004 ruling camn as the result of a charge by tho American .Jewish Congress lAIC) that AmoriCorps unlaw­fully used federal money to 
see ACE/page 6 


Students fill out NCAA brackets, plan pools 

Men's and women's dorms organize own contests for March Madness tradition 


By JOHN EVERETT 
News Writer 
Notrn Damn students passed through the four stages or grief' -

.. 
OUT 
-
~ AU~~'f' 
''" l ,.,;:.: ..":£ 
TIM SULLIVANfThe Observer A poster hangs In LaFortune Tuesday to advertise a March Madness basketball tournament pool. 


Activist cotnpares U.S. and China 
By KATIE PERRY 
News Writer 
With his salt and pepper hair. large wire-rimmed glasses and unassuming demnanor, it is hard to imagine John Karnm in tlw desolate setting or a Chinese prison. But the executive direetor or the Dui llua Foundation ­and this ynar's O'Grady Asia Lecture Series fea­tured speaker -has worked on behalf of politi­cal and rnligious inmates for over 15 years and tal­
see KAMM/page 8 



Sutntner registration pretnieres nevv systetn 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
N,·w' Wril<"r 
Hngistration for sumnHH classes. whirh lwings today, will hn tlw first limn studnnts USI' tlw nnw five-digit eoursn nurnlwring systPm. 
ThP nPw roursP numhnrs arn part of a SPries of changns taking placn as a 
rnsult  of  thn  Hnnovarn  
l'rojnrt. tlw  rww  Univnrsity  
mainfrarnn  system  being  

installml and snt for-comple­tion in two ynars. 
Beginning today. students will log onto "insidoND" to register and search for sum­mer and fall course offprings. Thny will haVt\ to enter the new course numbers in ord1~r to f'ind tlwir elassns. 
Christoplwr Tempi!\. an ara­demie spneialist in tlw rngis­trar's off'icn, said ho dons not expect any gl i tchns with stu­dents using the new course numbers today. 
"Wn don't anticipate any problems; we have been 
see REGISTER/page 8 

dnpression. d11nial, anger and acceptance -arter learning Sunday that the mnn's basketball team would not bn partir.ipating in the NCAA tournarnont and would instead be relegatod to the National Invitational Tournament (NIT). But their own team's fate hasn't stoppnd many l'rorn jump­ing into the March tradition of filling out brackoL-; -compoting online, in dorms and across cam­pus. 
March Madness, the nkknamn given to the NCAA tourney dun to its unpredictability, is one of the most widely wagnrod-on sporting fwenL-; of the year. 
V11ry rare is tho workplace without an oiTien pool, and even those less knowledgeable on the subject of eollnge basketball arn often participants. Not cveryono is pleased with the bracket-
see BRACKETS/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
University selects '05 grad speaker 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
Assistam News Editor 
The PresidtHlt of the United States won't be speaking to Notre Damn's 2005 graduates, but a man who has held three prnsi­dencins in his life will. 
T h e University announced Tuesday t h a t Vartan Grngorian. president of the Carnngin Corporation and formnr prnsident. of Brown University and the New York Public Library. will be the principal speaker at its ] h0th COI1lm1H1CIH1Wnt exereises on May 15. 
Gregorian has lwld high­ranking positions in a wide varinty of fi<dds, making him an ideal snlnc­tion, Univnrsity Pn~sident Father Edward Malloy said in a press rnlnase. 
"In all his many rolns in public lif11, Dr. Cre){orian has displaynd nxt.raordi­nary lnadPrship," Malloy said. "I know that his remarks will he an idnal capstonn for (our gradu­ates' I ndunttional nxpnri­ences on our l'ampus." 
(;rngorian has snrvnd at tho holm of Nnw York's Carnngin Corporation since 1997. The corpora­tion, which was founded in 19 II, snnks to cany out 


see SPEAKER/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



The other holiday 
Everyone knows about the national holiday coming up tomor­row. Many are getting ready to don their green beads and green shirts while sharing green drinks and good times. But what I'm really Mike Harkins looking for­ward to is the other national Graphics holiday that happens to land on March 17th this year. 
Okay, maybe it's not a national holiday, but the first day of the NCAA men's basketball tournament is still one of my favorite days of the year. 
So the Irish men are out of the tournament and now out of the NIT. It's painful to think about given the high hopes for the team going into the season, and this week would have been a lot more fun with them participating in the tournament. It'll be alright though, because once the tournament games begin on Thursday, I will be glued to the television from the first tip off at 12:20 p.m. until the final whistle at midnight without having to think about anything else but basketball. 
Well, alright maybe I'll be think­ing a little about that other holiday taking place tomorrow. And I do plan on celebrating the way it is meant to be celebrated. But I have definitely been looking forward to the NCAA Tournament a whole lot longer. 
From now until CBS plays "One Shining Moment" after the final game, basketball will most likely consume the majority of my life. Whether it's reading up on which Cinderella teams have the best chance of pulling an upset, filling out brackets with all the possible outcomes, or highlighting my bracket for the pool that I take part in with a few friends, chances are you would find me doing something tournament-related. 
Fortunately I have worked pretty hard in school so far this semester, knowing I would have to be pre­pared for the inevitable skipped classes and large decline in time spent on homework during March Madness. Of course, as a second semester senior, working hard pretty much means cutting down on playing video games from the average 3-4 hours to about 1-2 hours. 
Anyway, I hope you all are as excited about tomorrow as I am. My schedule tomorrow is as fol­lows: 
8:00 -Wake up. 
8:01 -Crack open a Guinness. 8:02-9:20-Guinness continues. 9:30-12:15-Class (I know it 
sounds bad, but they do allow water bottles in class, right?) 
12:20-5:00 -Watch basketball. 
5:00-7:00-Eat and continue St. Paddy's festivities. 7:00-Midnight-Watch basketball. Midnight-? -Heartland. Now that I think about it, I might 
just have to follow the same sched­ule on Friday. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Mike Harkins at mharkins@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­tion and strives for rhe highest standards ofjournal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please conracr us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, March 16, 2005 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: ARE YOU WORKING THIS SUMMER? 



Steve Shaul  Eileen Locke  Alissa Mendoza  Tim Stawicki  Jennifer Stall  Christopher Ban  
sophomore off-campus  junior McGlinn  senior off-campus  junior Siegfried  junior Pasquerilla West  senior offcampus  
"Working at the  "Yes, I have a  "No. I don't  "''m currently  "Yes, I have an  "Yes. I'm  
carwash. The  job in sunny  want to wotk  in the running  internship at  working as a  
bikini carwash."  California.  yet."  for the  the Wells Center  concession  
Booya."  president of  for Pediatric  engineer in  
Yemen. "  Research  Lancaster."  
at Riley  
Hospital in  
Indianapolis."  


TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer Violinist Sujeet Sesai, who has Down syndrome, performed In Washington Hall Tuesday night as part of Disability Awareness Month. 
OFFBEAT 

Thousands compete to be that's entered is good, come The envelope was one of named national cheese Wednesday, only one will two that contained harass­champ get to be the big cheese. ing materials, according to 
MILWAUKEE -John "It's kind of like the a report filed Friday with Umhoefer calls it the Olympics where you start Lexington police. The Olympics of cheese. Every out with a 10 and your envelopes also contained a two years, hundreds of flaws are downgraded," letter from someone com­cheeses are sent in from said Umhoefer, executive plaining about the city's ban across the nation to see director of the Wisconsin on smoking in enclosed which makes the cut and is Cheese Makers Association, public places. crowned the U.S. champion which co-sponsors the event Lexington police declined of cheese. that started Monday. to comment about the con­
This year, more than tents of the letter, but Lt. 1,000 cheeses from 25 Vice mayor receives 'dirty' James Curless said officers states are in Milwaukee for complaint are investigating. Curless the U.S. Championship LEXINGTON, Ky. -A said police think both Cheese Contest to be poked, harassment complaint has envelopes were sent by the prodded, squished, chewed, been filed with police after same person. sniffed and ultimately spit an aide found fecal matter out by 14 finicky judges. in an envelope addressed to Information compiled 
Though every cheese the vice mayor. from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT . THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 
0::: 
IIJ 
::1: 
~ 
IIJ 
~ 
..... 
ct 
(.) 


0 

HIGH 44 HIGH 20
..... 

LOW 12 LOW 18 
Atlanta 55 I 44 Boston 43 I 30 Chicago 40 I 29 Denver 35 I 16 Houston 66 I 52 Los Angeles 69 I 52 Minneapolis 34 128 New York 46 I 32 Philadelphia 46 I 30 Phoenix 68 I 45 Seattle 56/ 40 St. Louis 42 I 31 Tampa 80 I 66 Washington 471 34 



IN BRIEF 

Dei Dao, an exilfld Chinese poet and human rights activist, will give a poetry reading today at 
4:30 p.m. in the Eck Visitors' Center. A reception will follow. The event is sponsored by the Creative Writing Program. 
The Notre Dame Schola Musiconun will perli>rm a concert entitled "Abcnd-Musique XXIV" at 8 p.m. in Reyes Organ and Choral Hall, located in the Debartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The concert is free but tickets are required. Please call the Debartolo box office at 574-631-2800. 
Bishop Gregorio Chavez, auxil­iary bishop of San Salvador, will give a Romero keynote lecture entitled "Archbishop Romero: A Bishop for the New Millennium" tonight at 8 p.m. in McKenna Hall Auditorium. 
Israeli poet Yosefa Raz will read excerpts of her work Thursday at 6 p.m. in the West Wing of the Saint Mary's dining hall. Raz will be followed by Israeli writer and peace activist Rela Mazali, who will give a talk titled "Militarism, Gender, and Anti­Militarist Activism in Israel." 
The men's tennis team will face off against lllinois Thursday at 4 
p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 

Ross Pillari, president of BP of American, will give a lecture enti­tled "Oil and Peace" Friday at 
10:30 a.m. in the Jordan Auditorium. The lecture is part of the "Ten Years Hence" business course and is open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
44 31 

HIGH LOW 


37 28 


39 28 

Wednesday, March 16, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Employee allegedly assaulted 
( lhserver Staff Rcpon 
An assault. was n~portod out­side Notre Damn's Stepan Clwmistry II all around 1 I: 15 
p.m. March 9, said Phil .Johnson, assistant diroetor of Notre Damn Seeurity/Polieo. 
Tho allt~gnd victim, a female University employtw, said a man approached her from behind and kissPCI h11r on the rlwek as she sat outside the hall, according to a March I 0 P-mail .Johnson SIHlt to the studPnt body. 
Tlw woman said that as she pullPd away from the man, hn askPd her what buildings wen~ opm1 on campus, tlwn began to walk south, Johnson said. 
Al'tPr tho 1~mployoe told her supervisor what happnned, NI>Sl' was contacted regard­ing tho allPgnd assault. 
The 1~mployoe described the allngt~d suspnct as a "black main, about 30 to :~5 years old, about 6 ft. tall. wnal'ing a hl1u:k jacket with lnttnring on thn front, tan pants and a hlack baseball eap with a red bill and U.S. Flag on tho bill." .Johnson said. 
.Johnson said Tuesday no additional information was available to rPport, but NDSP invnstigators are continuing to work on tlw case. 
-

9-11 cotntnissioner to speak on terroristn 
Special to the Observer 
Len llamilton, viee chair of the 9-11 commission, will lay out a blueprint for eiTeetive counter­tnrrorism stratngy and U.S. for­eign policy in lectures March 22 and 2] at Notm Dame. 
Thn March 22 lecture, 
"Fighting Terrorism," will begin at 4:15 p.m. in the Deeio Mainstage Theatre of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The second lecture, "IIow to Use American Power," will begin at 12:30 p.m. in the auditorium of the llesburgh Center for International Studies. 

Sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, the talks comprise the 11th annual Theodore M. llesburgh, C.S.C., Lectures in Ethics <md Public Policy and are free and open to the public. The lectures will be Webcast live at mms://strnam i ng. nd .ed u/hami 1­ton. 
llamilton was vice chair of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks upon the Unitnd States, which issued the inllwmtial and best-selling "9-11 Heport" on the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. 
Students anticipate ACE program placeinents 
By JEN ROWLING 
News Writer 
Students arrived back on cam­pus this week to receive the final decisions on their pending act:Pptances into the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) pro­gram. 
This year, 360 students applied to tho ACE program. Currently, 85 provisional accept­ancns have bnen distributed. 
Seniors with a variety of majors and backgrounds were eneouragnd to apply to the ACE program. 
"They don't look for a cookie­cuttnr person," said April Gareia, an ACE applicant. 
John Staud, ACE director, said it is hard to predict which majors and backgrounds will be needed from year to year. 
The ACE program is unique because it is responsive to the nends of the Catholic schools for whieh it provides teachers, Staud said. Candidates are only admitted into the program if they mateh the rnquest of a spe­which they have been assigned cific school. have the right of refusal. Staud 
"We encourage everyone to said that a rejection is uncom­apply who has an interest in mon, however. service through teaching," Tonight at 7 p.m. students will Staud said. find out the details of their 
Students apply from all the assigned positions. They will colleges at Notre Dame, Staud acquire information induding said. The College of Arts and location, school name, grade Letters, however, has the high­and assigned subject. After 
est number of applieants.  learning  
Math, science and foreign languages are usually  "They don't look  this infor­mation, stu­ 
areas that are in high  for a cookie-cutter  dents have  

demand. 
Staud, however, stressed the importanee of encouraging students with diverse baekgrounds to apply. 
The ACE program eon­siders each applicant's major, background and work with eth­nic and service groups. All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are guaranteed interviews. 
"We try to look as broadly as possible," Staud said. 
The 85 students accepted have provisional acceptances, which means the schools to 

the oppor­
person. 

tunity to accept or April Garcia reject their 
ACE applicant placement. Garcia, a manage­ment major, was notified Monday of her acceptance into the program. "I am just really happy to have gotten in," she said. Garda enhanced her business major with education classes at Saint Mary's. She would like to obtain a Masters in Education. After taking the GHE. Garcia 
decided the provisions of tlw ACE program lit her best. 
"Traditional graduate school was not the best c.hoil:n li1r nw," she said. 
As a long-term goal, Carda plans to become a principal or supnrintPndent. 
"I wnnt to a public school my nntire life," said Gareia. "I never would have expected to tnar.h in a Catholie sdwol." 
Maya Noronha, a psychology major with Pxperienco in soeial work and divnrse eommunities, was also provisionally ac.cnptnd into the prohrram. 
"I have wanted to go into edu­cation for a long time, and this setmwd like a great way to do it and still attnnd NotrP Dame," she said. 
Noronha will lind out today where she will be placPd. 
"I would prefer to bn within driving distanee of my family so visiting thnm wouldn't gPt too expnnsivn," she said. 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 
PATRICK NoBLE AND JuAN PABLO GARCIA 1 RICH Fox AND BAND 1 THE IRISH DANCE CLUB I THE GAELIC SociETY BAND 
.,.. -r:~ 'i." ·~ 



ST. PATRICK'S DAY 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 16, 2005 
Brackets 
continued from page 1 
mania -critics have claimed these pools are a violation of anti-gambling laws. 
Legal or not, employers may have a right to gripe about the tournament. 
A survey cited on ESPN.com stated that last year. the NCAA men's basketball tournament caused a $1.5 billion loss in pro­ductivity to the U.S. economy due to time wasted filling out brack­ets and the more hoops-mad workers taking sick days to catch all 


the action. "As far as I know, filling the bracket At Notre Dame, brackets are fully out," Manning Brian Tracy, presi­said.
legal as long as
dent of the With coaches
student-athletes
Leprechaun Legion Jim Calhoun, Jim and a resident aren't involved." Boeheim, Lute assistant in Knott Olsen and Bob Hall who will be Knight, Manning
Brian Tracy 
running a dorm­has four of the 
Leprechaun Legion 
wide bracket pool best in NCAA his­this year, said he president tory. 
does not see any hostility on the University's part towards the pools. 
"As far as I know, brackets are fully legal as long as student-ath­letes aren't involved. I would bet that at least every guys' dorm has one," Tracy said. 
Several women's dorms on campus are also organizing their own tournament pools. 
Cavanaugh vice president Monica Selak said she and fellow dorm officers decided to organize a tournament pool just this week. Participants will be charged $3 to enter, and all the money col­lected will help sponsor a service trip to a needy school in Phoenix, Ariz. The eventual bracket win­ner will receive a gift certificate to Target. 
"We were trying to find a cre­ative way to do some sort of social service activity and we fig­ured this would be a great way to raise money," said Selak. 
Every student has a different approach to filling out his or her bracket. Some pick all the favorites, some go for a lot of upsets, some go with their favorite team to win it all, while others are a bit more realistic. 
Freshman Tom Manning has UConn, Syracuse, Arizona and Texas Tech in his Final Four. 
"I go by the 
coach when I'm 
Freshman Paul 
Quintela's Final Four is a bit more predictable and is comprised of Wake Forest, Duke, North Carolina and Illinois. Three of those teams are seeded first in their region, and Wake Forest is a 2-seed. 
However, the rest of his brack­et is loaded with upsets, includ­ing LSU reaching the Sweet Sixteen. Quintela credits "those sweet purple uniforms," with his LSU pick. 
Megan O'Neil contributed to this report. 
Contact John Everett at 
jeverett@nd.edu 


Speaker 
continued from pagel 
founder Andrew Carnegie's vision of philan­thropy, which Carnegie said should aim "to do real and permanent good in the world." Awarding grants in four areas (education, inter­national peace and security, international development and strengthening U.S. democracy), the corporation expects its fiscal year 2004­2005 grants to total over $80 million. 
From 1989 to 1997, Gregorian served as the president of Brown University, where he taught freshman and senior history seminars and a course on Alexis de Tocqueville. In addition, he led capital cam­paigns that helped triple the endowment there. 

Prior to that, Gregorian served for eight years as president of the New York Public Library -no small task, considering that this system has four res(larch libraries and 83 circulating libraries. He is credited with pulling the library out of financial crisis. 
Gregorian was born to Armenian parents in Tabriz, Iran. After receiving his ele­mentary education there and his secondary education in Lebanon, he enrolled at Stanford University in 1956. He graduated with honors just two years later. 
In 1964, he earned a doc­torate in history and the humanities, also from 

Stanford. 
Gregorian taught European and Middle Eastern history for eight years at San Francisco State College, the University of California at Los Angeles and the University of Texas. l-Ie then joined the University of Pennsylvania faculty. In 1972, he became the founding dean of the Faculty of Arts anc! Sciences there; in 1972, he became the provost. 
Senior Erin Mai said she is 
"excited and "I would hope to "Americans proud" of Notre [Gregorian] would of diverse ori­Dame's decision gins for their
bring a unique
to bring some­outstanding 
one with a "dif­perspective ... that contributions to ferent perspec­might not be at their own ethnic tive." groups and to
Notre Dame." 
"This is a American socie­Catholic univer­ty," according to sity, but it's still Galen Laughrey that organiza­important for senior tion's Web site. 
people to be exposed to dif­ferent ideas and different religions," she said. "[Gregorian] seems to know a lot about Islam, and I think that could bring a lot to his speech." 
Senior Galen Loughrey agreed, calling the University's choice of Gregorian a "great change" from the past commence­ment speakers. 
"I would hope [Gregorian] would bring a unique per­spective, given his interna­tional experience, that might not be at Notre Dame," he said. 
Gregorian has received myriad accolades and grants during his career. 
Currently serving as a fel­
low  of  the  American  
Academy  of  Arts  and  
Sciences,  Gregorian  has  

received fellowships from the John Smith Guggenheim Foundation, the American Council of Learned Societies, the Social Science Research Council and the American Philosophical Society. 
He received the National Ethnic Coalition of Organization's Ellis Island Medal of Honor in 1986, which is annu­ally presented 
He has also 

been honored by U.S. presidents. In 1998, President Bill Clinton awarded Gregorian with the National Humanities Medal; last year, President George 
W. Bush awarded him the Presidential Medal of free­dom, the nation's highest civilian award. 
Gregorian is the author of "Emergence of Modern Afghanistan: Politics of Reform and Modernization, 1880-1946;" "Islam: A Mosaic, Not a Monolith;" and his autobiography, "The Road to Home." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, March 16, 2005 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Italy withdraws from coalition 
HOMI·:-Italy's prinw minister announced plans Tuesday to start drawing down his country's 3,000-strong contingnnt in Iraq in SPptPmbl'r. putting a fresh crack in President Bush's c-rumbling coalition. Bulgaria also mllnd for a partial withdrawal, and Ukraino Wl'lronwd honw its lirst wave of rnturning troops. 
Tlu• moves romP on top of thn withdrawal of morp than a dozen countries over the last ynar and could eomplirato efforts to knnp tho JH'ilt'l' whi!P Iraq's IIPW gowrnnwnt builds up polic'P and military units rapabln of taking ovl'r from forPign forces. 
Two ynars at't.Pr t.hn U.S.-Ied invasion top­plod Saddam Jlussnin, tho coalition is unrav­Piing amid mounting casualties and kidnap­pings that. lwve stoked anti-war snntinwnt and sapJwd loaders' resolvn to keep troops in harm's way. 
European men are more obese 
BHLJSSJ•:J.S, Belgium -At least seven J·:uropPan countries now rhallnngn tho Unitnd St.atns in size -at lnast around tho waistlinP. 
In a group of nations from (;roern to (;nrrnany, tlw proportion of overweight or ohl'sl' nwn is higher than in the United Statns, exports said Tuesday in a major analysis of expanding girth on thn European ront.inPnl. 
"ThP time wlwn obesity was thought to be a prohiPm on tlw otlwr sidt~ of thn Atlantic has gonl' hy," said Mal's l>i Bartolomno, l.uXPIIlhourg's Ministl'r of llnalth. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Anthrax detected in Pentagon mail 
WASIIIN(;TON-llundrnds of postal work­nrs wnre ofTPred antibiotics Tunsday and many WPrn taking them after initial tests detnrtnd anthrax in a pair of military mail­rooms. Nobody rnportnd symptoms of' the disease as oflkials awa.it.ml results of' f'urther testing. 
Three mail f'aeilities were dosed -two that serve the Pentagon and onn in Washington that handles mail on its way to tlw military as well as all federal ol'fiens in tlw area. 
In morn than three years sinee the 2001 anthrax-by-mail attaeks. there have been seores of initial tnsts that falsely reported anthrax in government mailrooms. In this rase, however. the baetnria were detected separately in two difl'nrtmt mailrooms, rais­ing concerns and invoking memories of' the attacks that killnd five and panicked Anwrieans still raw from thn Snpt. 11 attacks. 
Road assassin kills three men 
DALLAS -A man squeezed through the sunroof' of' a .Jaguar early Tuesday and openml fire with an assault rilln on another moving vtl!Jidt~. killing throe men and criti­cally wounding a fourth, police said. 
Authorities were searching for the gunman and two othnrs who may have been riding in tlw light-eolorml .Jaguar with fancy wheels, polit:n said. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Senate hears new stadium plans 
INDIANAPOLIS -Lawmaknrs started over Tw~sday in tlwir work to find thn money for a nnw Indianapolis Colts stadium aftnr several proposals failed during the first half of the legislative snssion. 
A Snnatn eommittt111 listened to city oflieials and Colts eoael1 Tony Dungy speak about the bnnnfits of' a nnw stadium and expanded con­vention center. but most senators already senmml supportive of' thn project -at least in thnory. 
Senate Tax Committee Chairman Luke Kenley, H-Noblesville, said while the idea of a nnw stadium had broad support, funding will lw trit:ky in a tight budget year. 

CoMPILED FROM TI..IE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
RussiA 


Reward paid for tracking rebel 
Russian security service had $10 1nillion bountyfor information on Maskhadov 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -Hussia's security service announced Tunsday it paid an unprece­dented $10 million to informers who hnlped track down the late Chechen rebel leader Asian Maskhadov -an effort to give credibility to its renewed ofl'er of an identi­cal prize for the Kremlin's No. I foe, warlord Shamil Basayov. 
Tho announcement appmtred part of a stepped­up efl'ort to eliminatn sepa­ratist leadnrs whoso fight against tho Krnrnlin has dragged on for most of tho past decade and destabi­lized mueh of Hussia's soutlwrn flank. Cheehnya's Moscow-backed president suggested it was part of a plan to rely im~rnasingly on the rngion 's local population in its attempts to stop rebel warlords. 
"Tiw promise to pay a large sum of money has bPPn realized. and the pop­ulation knows that this is no myth. People will turn up who will indnpendently trace Basayov and his underlings and roport to the propnr authorities," the lnterfax nnws agency quot­ed Alu Alkhanov as saying. 

"I am certain that Basayev can now hardly fet1l calm and sum of him­largest amount paid under it would pay a $10 million of collaborators. Previous self in any region or settle­the State Department's bounty for information IPad­claims that their killing or ment at all, in a forest or in Hewards for Justice pro­ing to the killing or capturn capture was imminent had the mountains," he said. gram, a terror-era innova­of him or Basayev -who never borne out. 
Hussian authorities did tion. U.S. officials have said remains at large and has The FSB said it would bP not say who received the a promised $25 million claimed responsibility for prepared to help the peo­reward, and thorn was no reward for help in captur­attacks including the dm!dly ple who provided tlw way to confirm the pay­ing Saddam was not likely raid on a school in the town information on Maskhadov ment. But the $10 million to be givnn out because he of Beslan. by relocating them to would be the largest ever was loeated by the U.S. mili­Basayev is now seen as another region of' Hussia given by the Hussian gov­tary. the most powerful rebel fig­or to a Muslim country, ernment for a fugitive. Washington has also ure, despite the appoint­and off'ered similar guar­
U.S. authorities paid $30 offered $25 million each for ment of a little-known for­antees f'or informants on million in reward money to al-Qaida chief Osama bin mer Islamic judge to Basayev's whereabouts. a tipster who pointed Laden and his top operative replaee Maskhadov. "The Hussian Federal American forces toward the in Iraq. Abu Musab al­The killing of Maskhadov Security Serviee confirms hideout of former Iraqi Zarqawi. was a victory fi1r the sncurity its preparedness to guar­loader Saddam Hussein's Maskhadov was killed last services, who have strugglt~d antne personal security two sons. Qusai and Odai, week in a Russian special to penetrate the tightly knit and payment of an appro­who were killed July 22, forees operation in the elan society of Chechnya. priate monetary award to 2003 by U.S. troops during Cheehen village of Tolstoy­Maskhadov and other rnbel citizens providing tmstwor­a shootout in Mosul; the Yurt, authorities said. The leaders appeared abl11 to thy information on thn reward offered $15 million security service, known by move about fairly freely in whereabout-; of the terrorist for each of the sons. its Russian aeronym FSB, the region, where tht1y leadnrs," the FS B state­
The $30 million was the had said in September that boasted of a large network ment said. 


Atlanta man charged for rampage 
Cox asked him if he had any ques­almost five times the usual number 
A.•sociated Press 
tions. -packed the small room, and stw­

ATLANTA -Hinged by 19 officers ·"Not at this time," he said. eral more of'ficers blocked the hall in a cinderblock jail room, his hands Niehols was held without bail on outside. and ankles shackled, the man the rape charge he was on trial for Those entering the hearing room accused in the erime spree that left Friday, when he allegedly overpow­were searched with a handheld an Atlanta judge and three others ernd a guard al the Fulton County metal detector. dead went before a judge Tuesday courthouse, stole her gun and start­Fulton County Sherif'f Myron for the first time since the rampage. ed a rampage that terrorized Freeman said other steps had been 
Brian Nichols, 33, was informed Atlanta and left four people dead. taken to improve courthouse securi­that authorities plan to charge him This time, authorities took no ty: 40 uniformed deputies have been with murder. chances for the hearing at the added and high-risk inmates will b11 
Nichols looked straight ahead dur­Fulton County Jail. transported separately, accompa­ing the five-minute hearing and did All prisoners booked into the jail nied by specially trained officnrs. not make eye contact with anyone make their first appearance before "The security improvements we've in the room, including the judge. He a judge inside the jail, not at the made in the past few days will con­spoke only once, when Judge Frank courthouse. But 19 officers -tinue," he said in a statement. 
r-­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 16, 2005 
United States. After completing nearly eight percent of salaries continued. "At the same time, be closing 22 schools in the two-year program, each for the ACE faculty members the University strongly sup­Brooklyn and Queens. The
ACE 
participant receives a master's who are teaching secular sub­ports ACE, so we're· convinced Archdiocese of Detroit also has 
continued from page 1 
promote the teaching of Christian values by awarding monetary vouchers to partici­pants in programs like ACE, which assigns teachers to needy Catholic schools. Notre Dame joined the lawsuit filed against AmeriCorps as a defen­dant-intervener. 
"We believed all along that we were not in violation of the establishment of religion clause, and we're pleased that the court saw this too," Staud said. "For the past 11 years, it has been our practice to follow the AmeriCorps guidelines, so the religious activity of ACE participants has not counted toward the service hours required for the AmeriCorps stipend. Those hours come from the secular subjects that are taught, like chemistry and math." 
The ACf: program was founded in 1993 and since then has been training teach­ers for two-year commitments in underfunded parochial schools across the southern 
~ ~.,~:.~ 

POK 
SUPPlES Poker Chips from $4.95;so Texas Mrllr~......, from $199.97 Poker Tables from $299.00 
Rentals Available 

Large Seledion of Game Tables, Supplies and Table Toppers. 

50510 St. Rd. 933N • South Bend 

574-272-1617 

Sunday March 20 • 7:30 p.m. Morris P12rforming Arts C12nt12r Sooth B12nd, Indiana 
THIS SUNDAY! GOOD TICKETS STILL AVAILABLE! 

Tickt'tts available ot Morris Box Offi~v Chorgq by phonq 574/235-9190 or 800/537-6415 
on-line ot www~monlscent•r.org 
~~~???!~j 

degree in education from Notre Dame. 
ACE teachers-in-training are allotted a stipend of $12,000 per year from the schools in which they teach. In addition, most ACE participants are eli­gible to apply for and receive two annual $4,725 education vouchers through AmeriCorps. 
To qualify, the participant must complete 1,700 hours of service in or outside of the 
_ classroom that is of a non-reli­gious affiliation. Through the ACE program, Notre Dame also receives grants of up to $400 per year for every full-time AmeriCorps member. This money covers 
FORTUNE. 
100 BEST 
jects. 

The court's ruling will allow ACE to continue its service program and especially will help with recruitment of new participants, Staud said. 
"The AmeriCorps awards enable us to recruit broadly for ACE," he said. "Participants tend to be recent college grad­uates who have significant loan indebtedness. The award is well deserved for these par­ticipants who are providing service for the country. 
"It would have been a big disappointment had the ruling gone the other way, making it more challenging to attract students with high debt," he nothing will stop the program. Catholic schools are too needy. We would just have had to been more creative and ener­getic in finding other sources of funding." 
Last week's ruling ensured the future of ACE at a critical time for Catholic schools throughout the country. There are nearly 8,000 Catholic schools in America, but last year only 34 new schools were opened, while more than 100 were closed. 
Within the past few months, the Archdiocese of Chicago announced it is planning on closing 23 schools, and the Brooklyn diocese said it would closed 21 schools in the past two years. 
"Now is a difficult time for Catholic schools nationally," Staud said, "but ACE is com­mitted to serve these schools for decades to come. The chal­lenges are great, and many schools have confided that they would be unable to stay open if it weren't for ACE. However, because we have so many motivated people who are part of the program, we are able to turn them loose on this prob­lem. We're in this for the long haul." 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 


It will feel less constricting at a great job. 
COMPANIES ;g Companies To Work For." So whether you're looking for a place to grow or a TO WORK FOR~ great place to work, look for our recruiters on campus. ey.comjus;careers 
At Ernst &Young, the opportunity for growth is enormous. We offer over 
7,000 professional development programs-some of the best formal learning programs in the country -because our philosophy is People First. We recognize that our employees are essential to the firm's growth and success. And in order to attract the best talent, we've built an environment that Fortune® magazine has consistently recognized as one of the" 100 Best 
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Wednesday, March 16, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,745.10 -59.41

}ones  
Up: 1,113  Some: 159  Down: Composite Volume: • 1,513,064,448  
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE S&PSOO  I ,41-!6.06 2,034. 9X 7.310.41 1,197.75  +3.47 -16.06 -43.4X -9.0X  

NIKKEI(Tokyo) I I ,821 .09 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 5,000.20 +25.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ JOOTR SER I (QQQQ)  -0.80  -0.30  37.04  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.80  -0.20  24.91  
TIVO INC (TIVO)  +74.93  +2.87  6.70  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.61  -0.39  23.88  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -1.56  -0.29  18.25  


30-YEAR BOND  +0.6 7  +0.32  48.13  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.58  +0.26  45.42  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.43  +0.18  42.17  
3-MONTH BILL  +0.92  +0.25  27.37  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.10  55.05  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -0.20  441.40  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.65  90.35  



YEN  I 04.51  
EURO  0.7514  
POUND  0.5229  
CANADIAN$  1.2068  

IN BRIEF 
Insurance giant AIG under fire 
NI(W YOHK-Concerned about the upheaval in managPnwnt at American International (;roup Inc. and rngulatory probes of its business operations, major credit agencies on Tuesday either lowered thn insuranee company's dPbt rating or said tlwy would rflview whether it should he cut. AIG shares sank :~ pereent. 
Tlw board of AIG, one of the world's largest insura111~e companies, latP Monday removPd longtinw Chin!' Exncutivp Officer Maurice "llank" CrPtmberg in a first step toward trying to l'llSolve the widPning l'ndnral and state probes into its property and casualty insurance husi­ness. 
In one ongoing prolw, Now York AttornPy c;enNal l·:liot Spitznr, federal prosecutors and Lhe Securities and Exchange Commission arn looking into tlw use of so-called finite insurance, or financial rninsuranee, which thPy contend can bn used to manipulatP earnings. 
WTO finds fault with the EU 
c;ENEVA -Both sides daimed vietory Tw1sday in a trade fight pitting the United States and Australia against the European Union, cen­tPring on the right of foreign Pxporters to use geographie food names such as Florida oranges or Idaho potatoes to describe their products in European markeL<>. 
A World Trade Organization panel rfllnased a ruling on complaints by Washington and CanbPrra against llw 25-nation EU. 
Tho Unitml States and Australia claimed that tho HI hrnadwd the rules of global comrnnree by discriminating against tlwir produeors in not granting thnm the right to use "geographical inclieations" lilr their procluets. 
Tho WTO ruling said the EU had "not suc­t:Pndncl in rnbutting that t:IL<;e," even though the bloc was not guilty of wide-ranging breaches. 
Th11 ruling finmd fitult with somfl parts of tho 1\U's eurr11nt ruins, whieh say only foods pro­dun~d in tlwir original r11gion can earry certain WPII-known labnls -sonwthing the EU says is rweclml to give custonwrs a quality guaranteP. 
UndPr that systnm, only ham produeed using traditional nwthods rwa1· the Italian eity of Parma ran be eallnd Parma ham, Hoqunl'orl. rhensn must eomn from its native region in soutlwrn Frauen and Madeira wine from tho Portuguese island of tho same name. 
IRAN 


Saudis propose increase in oil 
OPEC does not approve of plan that will lower prices of crude internationally 
Associated Press  
ISFAIIAN -Saudi Arabia  
is trying to wrnstle oil priens  
lower with a plodgo to  
pump morn crud11 -with  
or without OPEC. But so f'ar,  
it isn't working.  
On Tunsday. tho world's  
largnst oil produeN said it  
might boost suppliPs unilat­ 
Prally to bring relinf l.o  
world markets if othnr  
nwmhnrs of tho  
Organization of Pntrolnum  
l•:xporting CountriPs balked  
at its earlier proposal to  
raise tho cartPI"s output  
quota.  
OI'Jo:C meots Wt~dnesday  
amid growing eoneorns  
about how long tho global  
nconomic enginn ean  
rnrnain in high gear with  
crude oil prices lwvnring  
nnar $55 a barrnl.  
Thn original Saudi pro­ 
posal. madn Monday, would  
add 500,000 barrnls, or 2  
pnrc~mt, to the OI'Jo:C output  
t:11iling of 27 million a day.  
But bnyond sending a psy­ 
chological signal of thn  
group's readiness to  
rospond to high pricos,  
some analysts questioned  
the impact of such a move  
beeausfl OPEC members  
Wflre already producing  
about 700,000 barrels a day  
above their quotas. Rising crude oil prices from OPEC countries, Including Saudi Arabia, are leading to  
OPEC's president, Sheik  
climbing gas prices, as seen at a 76 gas station In Malibu, Calif., on March 15.Ahmad Fahad AI Ahmad AI  
Sabah of Kuwait, tried to  requirements in the mar­ reducing priees."  group's output eeiling by  
blunt that argument by say­ ket," Naimi told reporters.  Other experts also said  500,000 barrels a day to  
ing that any deal to formally  "Uppermost in our minds is  the effects would be mini­ 27.5 million barrnls a day,  
raise production would lift  [the intention) to satisfy the  mal.  according to Dow .Jonos  
actual output from about  demand that is out there."  "'It will not drive the price  Newswires, whieh cited an  
27.7 million barrels to 28.2  Light, sweet crude for  down but stabilize it and  anonymous OPEC source in  
million barrnls a day li>r 10  April delivery rose 35 cents  keep it from zooming into  Isfahan.  
of its members. The 11th,  to $55.30 per barrnl in  the stratosphere," said pro­ Iranian Oil Ministl~r Bijan  
Iraq. is exempt from quota  afternoon trade on the New  fessor Anthony Sabino of St.  Namdar Zangeneh has said  
restrictions as it rnbuilds.  York Mercantile Exchange.  Johns University's Peter .1.  neither a higher ceiling nor  
AI Sabah said OPEC  That's above the record  Tobin Business School in  an unchanged one would  
should not only raise output  Nymex settlement price of  New York.  put more oil on the market.  
by 500,000 barrflls a day,  $55.17 per barrel, set twice  Still, he deseribod OPEC  Tho proposal of a higlwr  
but follow it some time in  in late Oetober, although  countries opposed to the  ceiling is probably intended  
the future, if necessary, with  futures would have to sur­ hike as "a little short-sight­ to lflgitirnize some of the  
another hike of 500,000  pass $90 a barrel to meet  ed" because ultimately  overproduction, ZangPilllh  
barrels a day.  the inflation-adjusted peak  there will be a lower  said. OPEC would be unwist'  
Taking matters one step  set in 1980.  demand for oil as the high  to raisn output aggrnssively  
further, Saudi oil minister  Hellecting the pessimism  prices will slow the growth  in what is traditionally the  
Ali Nairni signaled his coun­ other OPEC members have  of the world's oeonomios.  weakest season for oil, he  
try's willingness to raise  toward the Saudi proposal,  In a sign tho rest of OPEC  said.  
output by itself, without  Ngeria's Oil Minister Chakib  may relent to the Saudi pro­ "Both proposals mean wn  
OPEC approval.  Khelil said, "We can do a  posal, the cartel's ministeri­ should kflep the existing  
"We have done that in the  goodwill gesture, but it  al monitoring committee is  level of produetion within  
past in order to meet the  doesn't mean anything in  set to recommend lifting the  OPEC," Zangeneh said.  

'Telecom Cowboy' guilty of fraud 
biggest corporate fraud and bank­had recognized thn fraud "nxtendnd 
Associated Press 

ruptcy in U.S. history. from the middle managnmnnt levels 
NEW YOHK-They called him tho As a jury forewoman read the ver­of this .cm~!pany all the way to its top Telecom Cowboy, a darling of Wall dict -guilty on all nine counts, cxeeutlve. Street who took a small long-distance including fraud and conspiracy­The verdict marked a colossal fall eornpany global by steering a snow­Ebbers' face rnddened notieeably. I lis for Ebbers, who had turrwd a hum­balling set of mergers and acquisi­wife, seated in the front row, broke ble Mississippi long-distance firm tions. into tears. into a global telecommunications 
Now, Bernard Ebbers is the gov­Later, as his lawyflr promised an power, swallowing up c.ompanins ernment's biggest eatch sincn it appflal and prodicted he would "ulti­along the way and earning the nick­bngan pursuing tho largest corporatn mately be vindicated," Ebbers and nanw Tnlm:orn Cowboy. l'raudstors thwe yt~ars ago. lie could his wife, nearly crushed by a phalanx In a six-week trial. prosecutors sptlrHI the rest of his life in federal of cameras, hailed a cab and sped painted him as obsnssnd with ktwp­prison. away. ing WorldCom's share pri1~n high, 
Tho (>3-year-old formnr CEO of Ajudge set sentencing for June 13. panieknd about prnssurn hn was w~t­WorldCom was eonvietnd Tuesday of Attorney General Alberto Gonzales ting over $400 million in pnrsonal orchestrating tho $11 billion fraud called the conviction a "triumph of loans that were backed by his own that sank the company in 2002, the our legal system." lie said tho jury WorldCom stock. 
Wednesday, March 16, 2005

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Register 
continued from page 1 
preparing for months," he said. 
Temple said the longer numbors are necessary for the now Renovare system, but he noted further changes will come gradually as tho system continues to be upgraded. 
"Sometimes you'll hear this [the new Renovaro System I called the 'vanilla version' because the University is try­ing to implement the system with as few customizations as possible," Temple said. 

their old ones," Temple said. "Others used this as an opportunity to revamp their structure." 
Faculty complaints were scarce, as all departments came tognther to roconfigure their course numbering sys­tems, Templo said. In fact, he noted that many departments welcomed the opportunity to create a new and better iden­tification system. 
"Some departments were running out of unique num­bers to manage their teach­ings. It was a lot of work, but some were excited at the prospect of reconfiguring 
their whole 
organization." 
The daunting "It was a To make the task of re-num­transition as
challenging project 

bering each of smooth as possi­
for everybody.,

the University's ble, "insideND" 9,000 courses will feature a began last sum­Christopher Temple link on the mer and was Student Services
academic specialist
successfully completed with the help of all academic departments, Temple said. 
"It was a challenging proj­ect for everybody," .:remple said. "I was impressed with how the academic depart­ments stepped up." 
The first two digits of the new numbers, assigned by the registrar's office, will indicate the level and type of course. Previously, a letter suffix was used to indicate the type of course. 
Each academic department was responsible for assigning the last three digits, using whatever system they pre­ferred. 
"Some departments used a numbering system similar to page to a tool 

that will allow students who know a course's old number to find the match­ing new one, Temple said. 
Links to tutorials are also featured on the Web site to help students learn to navi­gate and take advantage of the new system. 
Temple admitted the new numbering system might be a difficult change at first. 
"A five figure course num­ber can be complicated at first, but in time it will become second nature," Temple said. "It's just a mat­ter of learning the new lan­guage." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalon3@nd.edu 
Ka0101 
continued from page 1 
lied over 100 visits to the region for his cause. 
Kamm 's Tuesday presenta­tion, "Civil Rights, Human Hights: The Struggle for Justice in the United States and China," emphasized the intrinsic parallels between American Civil Rights activi­ty of the 1950s and 1960s and the struggles faced by contemporary Chinese socie­ty. 
The 1972 Princeton gradu­ate explained his human rights career as almost inevitable given the social and historical context of his own coming of age. Kamm listed such events as the Medgar Evers murder, the March on Washington and the Asbury Park riots of the 1970s -which occurred just miles from his childhood 
home  - as incidents which  
shaped  his  eventual  life  
course.  

"I took away the bedrock belief that social change is best achieved through non­violence, even when the cost is high," Kamm said. 
One of the most fundamen­tal comparisons between post-World War II America and 21st century China is that both societies are defined by their immense economic growth and the subsequent widening of the gap between the wealthy and the poo, Kamm said. It is this disparity that spurs frustration and conflict, Kamm said. 
"It is striking to examine the two societies because the profits of nonviolence arise precisely at the time of greatest tension," Kamm said. 
Continuing to link the two movements, Kamm com­pared the likes of American Civil Rights activists Martin Luther King Jr., Halph Abernathy and Hobert Moses to present-day Christian practitioners in China who, although vehemently nonvio­lent, have been detained for political crimes. 

"Both [groups of individu­als! are members of move­ments that seek to awake the conscience of the peo­ple," Kamm said. 

llis own conscience was awakened in May of 1990 when he first took the plunge into human rights activism. Kamm opted to walk away from his career as a successful businessman for a large cooperation in order to advance this cause. In 1999, he established and chaired the Dui .H ua Foundation, a non-profit organization dedicated to improving human rights in China. 
The Foundation prided itself on its establishment of an elaborate database con­taining names and related information for more than 9,000 political and religious prisoners incarcerated in China. 
Hecently, his meticulous efforts have paid off. Last month, in an iconoclastic move made by Beijing gov­ernment officials, informa­tion on 56 prisoners was ceded to Dui Hua -without prior solicitation. The ges­ture could, Kamm said, present a watershed event in terms of international access to prison records in China. 
The concession of records, as prompted by growing pressures from the interna­tional communHy, draws another significant compari­son to the Civil Hights move­ment, said Kamm. American 
racial policies criticized abroad adversely affected diplomatic relations with other nations and thus spurrnd donwstic social change. 
"International pressure pushed forward the American Civil Bights revo­lution," Kamm said. "I am grateful to those who criti­cized us." 
Despite signil'ieant mile­stones reached by the foun­dation, Kamm and his coworkers realize their work is far from over. In fact, given the current circum­stances of a China marked by rapid economic growth, the time has never been more appropriate to move forward these advancements in human rights, according to Kamm. 
"We should push for more concrete improvements in China because the country is rising so fast," Kamm said. 
According to Kamm, the mindsets of American human rights activists ­and citizens of the US in general -reflect concern over the kind of superpower China will inevitably be: democratic or authoritarian. 
Citing the Civil Rights movement as a large influ­ence in his own approach to the human rights issue in China, Kamm embraces the value of vociferous persever­ance in the name of moral good by continuing to inves­tigate the identities of the innumerable political dissi­dents help captive in the grim penitentiaries of China. 
"We find the names of the lost and forgotten, and we present them to power," Kamm said. "Sometimes lives are changed, even saved." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 


ummer Sessions rly Session 
23-June 17 
ummer Session 
uly 5 -August 12 
Summer Session 
e 6-July 29 
online today! uc.edu/summerOS 

• 
Experience a premier national university ranked a"best value" by U.S. News & World Report. 

• 
Get your degree faster­take up to 12 hours in just over two months 

• 
Take courses near Chicago summerfun at two diverse campuses located on the shores of Lake Michigan and in the heart ofChkago, 



to Lead Lives 
LOYOLA 
E; •., ~ UNIVERSITY ~ §CHICAGO ~ -../
0 0 
q.~At •-of(.\" 

1.800.262.2373 summer-sessions@luc.edu 

Wednesday, March 16, 2005 The Observer+ NEWS page 9 
Agents bug tnayor in graft investigation 
Sixteen months after inzplementation, FBI-installed microphone reveals no corruption 
rneordnd more than 25.000 Tho tapes are being playnd politely to White's request that
Associated Press 

phone calls involving one of in eourt this month for tho a certain financial serviens 
I'IIIL/\I>ELI'Illi\-In thn Stroot's top fund-raisers for trial of' former city Treasuror firm be included in a city l'inal WPnks of' Philadnlphia's nearly nine months. But none Corey KP.mp, who is ehargnd transaction, hut stopped short lwatod 2003 mayoral cam­of tho transcripts relnasnd in with aeeopting tens or thou­of promising to takn any paign, FBI agents cn~pt into recent weeks have disproved sands of dollars worth of ille­action. City llall and installnd a Stnwt's doelaration that any­gal gifts !'rom one of Street's In another, Street listened as rnierophorw ahovn thn mayor's one navnsdropping on his eon­top campaign fund-raisers, a White described a plan to dnsk. vnrsations would lind "no cor­lawyer named Honald A. "sell" tickets in the city's luxu­
!.'or months. tlwy had lwen ruption. no sex and no profan­White. Prosecutors said White ry box at Philadelphia Eagles gathnring nvidnncn that eity ity." -who died in November games to campaign contribu­contracts wnrn being traded The FBI apparently over­while awaiting trial -was try­tors. But the mayor seemed to !'or campaign contributions. heard no instance in which the ing to buy himself inl'luence throw cold water on the plan Thny wantnd to know whether mayor said outright that hn over the awarding of city con­by saying seatiHg in the box Mayor .John F. Stroot himself' was willing to trade city work tracts. was limited. was involvml. for a donation, and Street has The recordings do not paint Investigators also went look­
Sixtnen months later -and not been chargnd with any a nattering picture of city gov­ing for evidence that Street wonks into the third federal wrongdoing. ernment. In several calls, the had used his ollice for person­trial to eomn out of the graft The absence of a smoking lawyer and treasurer can be al gain, but may have come up invnstigation -thny are prob­gun has allowed his support­heard talking about rewarding short there, too. ably still wond11ring. ers to suggest the mayor's companies that had given Financial records seized by 
Thn bug in tho mayor's ofliee problems are probably behind money to Street's campaign, the FBI showed that Street was in place for only a short him. and denying city work to peo­and his son received loans timn before it was discovered "I think a lot of people see ple who hadn't. from Commerce Bank at a by Philadnlphia polk!~ and the that there are some serious But Street's knowledge of the time when the bank was seek­investigation was cut short. questions that have been dealings between his treasurer ing city deposits. But there has During that timn, the listnning raised by the investigation, but and fund-raiser remains been no proof' that the trans­dnvieo picked up nothing of there are also legitimate unelear. actions were linked to any city importarH:n, FBI agnnts said. answers," said Street's In one typical call intercept­deal or conveyed the mayor 
FBI agents also seerntly spokesman, Dan Fee. ed by the FBI, Street listened any special benefit. 
The O'Grady Asia Lecture Series 2005 
Presents 
John Kamm, Executive Director Dui Hua Foundation 
"Civil Rights, Human Rights: The Struggle for Justice in the United States and China" 
Tuesday, March 15 at 5:00 p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business University of Notre Dame 
*********************************************************** 
A workshop and discussion with John Kamm (Dui Hua Founder and Executive Director) & Irene Chan Kamm, (Manager of Administration and Development) 
"Dui Hua: The Strategy and Technique of Human Rights Work in China" 
Wednesday, Marl:h 16, 2005 at 2:00 p.m. Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium Notre Dame Avenue University of Notre Dame 
Reception to follow Hesburgh Center, Great Hall 
http:/;www.duihua.org The public is invited to attend both events. 631-8873 
What's the Future of this Reladonship? 
Please join us for an afternoon of reflection and discussion designed for dating couples who are discerning the next stage of a relationship commitment. · 
What's next for our relationship after graduation? What are some challenges involved in long distance dating? What's involved in making a healthy decisions about·a relationship? 

Applications are available In 114 Coleman-Morse center or 319 Coleman-Morse at the Reception Desk 
C-M 

Questions: call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631·7163 Ctompus Ministry 
Experts support arbiter proposal 
Associated Press 
Wi\SIIINGTON -Setting up an independent arbiter of freedom-of-information dis­putes with thn govnrnmnnl would makn appnals for tho release of information morn fair and less expensive, wit­nesses told a Senate panni Tuesday. 
"ll will morn than pay for itself in diverting eases from the courts," Thomas M. Susman. a lawyer spoeializing in Freedom of Information i\r.t cases, told thn Snnate subcom­mittee on terrorism, technolo­gy and homeland sneurity. 
The proposal is part of a bill Congress is considnring that would strengtl11m the 1966 act in part by forcing govnrnrnont ofl'ieials and ageneios to respond morn quickly to requests for information. 
Sponso rod by Sons..loh n Cornyn, H-Texas. and Palriek Leahy, I>-Vt., tho bill would create an ombudsman at the Administrative Confer-enee of the United Stales to review agency compliance with FOil\ requests and recommend alternatives to litigation. 
Currently, disputns aro resolved in court, with the Justice Department defending the agencies. 
Creating a government ol'nee with oversight of the process would go a long way toward correcting the defensive pos­ture of some agnneies toward FOil\ requests, sending tho message from the government that "we are serious about open government require­ments," KathPrine M. Cary, division chief of the Open Hecords Division of the Texas Attorney General's Office, told the panel. 
"FOil\ isn't a game of us ver­sus. them," Susman said. 
The bill. sponsornd in thn llouse by Hep. Lamar Smith. H-Texas, would r-equire agen­cies lo give people seeking documents a tr-acking nurnbnr within 10 days and to sol up tnlephorHl or lntnrrrnt systems allowing them to learn the sta­tus and estimatml eomplntion date. 
i\geneios that didn't respond within 20 days would losn all exemptions to FOil\ requests except for national sncurity, personal privacy, proprintary information or a ban in anoth­er Jaw. 
The open govnrnnwnt issue took on nnw weight al'tor-thn Sept. 1 I, 2001, attacks when the Bush administration sot a higher threshold for· FOil\ dis­closurns. The While llousn advisnd agencies to make sure the information they rnleast>d would not joopardizn national seeurity. 
But media outlets and othnrs say that "national security" has become too common a reason for withholding infor­mation. 
Walter Mears. a retired Associated Prnss newsman, told the subeommittee that thn more information the govern­ment tries to keep secret, the greater tho chance that. what should be withheld will be leaked. 
page 10 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, March 16, 2005 



Mass. governor lVants turnpike chairman out 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Gov. Mitt Romney asked the state's highest court Tuesday if he has the power to fire the Massachusetts turnpike chairman after an· engineer who led an investigation into leaks at the $14.6 billion Big Dig project says he can no longer vouch for the safety ofits tunnels. 
"With the Big Dig there's been a pattern of cover-up· and stonewalling that has left the pub­lic with little confidence that the project is being managed well or that the road and tunnel system are safe to travel," Homney said. 
But he stopped short of calling the tunnels unsafe and said he will continue to drive through them. 
The governor's comments came in response to a March 9 letter written to the Turnpike Authority by engineering specialist Jack K. Lemley, who said he was "unable to express an opinion as to the safety of the 1-93 portion of the Central Artery." 

Bill redirects license plate profits 
State political parties stand to lose hundreds of thousands ofdollars 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -When Indiana drivers spend $48 for personalized license plates, $30 is sent to political parties, a vestige of a time decades ago when the parties ran the Bureau of Motor Vehicles. 
But a bill that a House com­mittee unanimously advanced Tuesday would take the nearly $1.4 million split between Hepublicans and Democrats and give it to the BMV. 
Hepublicans said the money should be used to help upgrade license branches. BMV Commissioner Joel Silverman said the money could also be used for security or to keep up with increasing costs. 

"We need to upgrade our license branches," said Hep. Cleo Duncan. H-Greensburg. 
But Democrats said the money should go back to cus­tomers who probably would not want to donate an extra $30 to help upgrade the branches. 
"If we were to ask the people, I'd bet they'd want their money back," said Rep. Carotene Mays, D-Indianapolis. 
"It just looks like it's a slush fund being created for the BMV," said Rep. Terry Goodin, D-Crothersville. 
The only person to speak against the bill was John Livengood, former Indiana Democratic Party chairman. He said the money has helped fund a healthy two-party system in the state and that he realizes where the money goes when he buys his two personalized plates. 

Wednesday, March 16, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page II 

University ofNotre Dame's International Study Programs 
Study Abroad ~is Summer Application Deadlines extended!* 
Earn N·D credit in: Berlin, Germany Rome, Italy Puebla, Mexico Dublin,Ireland. Tpledo, Spain·· 
*You must apply TODAYifyouare interested in Rome or Berlin. Application deadline for Puebl~, Dublin and 
. .m~~, 

Toledo fs Aptiltst. 
MISHAWAKA 514 W. McKinley Corner McKinley & Grope 574.252.5820

Y.US. Cellular. 
AUTHORIZED AGENT 

SOUTH BEND  
117 North Main  4401 W. Western Ave.  
1 blk. south of Colfax  Inside Martins  
574.288.9450  574.287.9651  
4615 Miami Rood  
Miami & Ireland  
.574.299.2860  

"MIITII! nlflr >!liK1 on I'M>.,.., "'"'rc-· '"'Yir.c a<J~ of MB!J'> nt luql-... Otrer rnckides tirsrline at $49 ~~with fil'% <m!SS rlixo~•t pk" till ~h.refnlk flO%~ l)isnwnt valid lor thn first tllee null"' rrl nI'M> I'M' 1'.01T111111'01l!tt Aifurnt• nl.l ~cll.lik phcme otm~ roqu1ro a re.vl'M'r·-mar 1'.011WIIIlf "'rllCOJ ,qrer111mt li01i1 Ullt!t' >haniiJik lrnes ~~" prim.uy llrw. km'<O tpa IXlf Shanilalk hnn '" !::10/rM. f'nrr•KV "'"' "'·'' k <>r nprrr.c piln nl $.~i '.!> ''".1 hljhrll Plomtllllll\<11 j100oo :llRlltMio ctlall\l<' G!lll<>ntr 1S 11l.1f1011$il~o ''"all 'M1Ies t<Jxes Ninnt :md Wouknod Miltllr• <~~n vdiKI M·F !.1 rm tn Mi!J arr1 <llkl ~~~ r1lly '''"" lJ'; JJ<J ~llllklt Nil'# .,rrJ Wt••koot1 ntinuiUS '"".Mill~ in I<JI';rt calling ,,,r,t on~. Cusll)ITJ;JI:: pl:~'i'lJ a1wf r,.:aM"I rJI!s mu;r oo U.S. Cellui:JJI'Il>tr1J~Jr> a1~J '"'the ~.Mi:e-tn·Mllnla l(•otum.Mt<'''" tn-Mlj,rfr, 10Jilrlll,1 J~~ In r.alo rrlnwJ too>''' !,jl1!111 from anotoo"IJ S t:r•liulm !>.lmibt< sphone. fr11 VOlt !'.all wqu;rlily!or Molil~·to·Mr~;iln lllillrlllS. )llll nnrt pi;LI,"' roce1w the call fmm••th10 \'001 IJo ,,,, ~ t},J ,,,,, r;rii"'J/v• , i11>1lhll ''lllmlro;J '"''"'t" "''VOlt rhlti' 11'11>1 oo nil t:<JIIs lt)!lrom Otltllltlo the Mrilll<'·lll Mt*""J ~<tllrll\1 :JI<>.J 1\111 apply trm.l!tllf~Jf wwtlal plan ffilfltrtf!.'l. May noll~· avmlablr• wiut t:fWJ>1 oftv, lh, '><1\iMI'I'"' IKJI ""''·'~.. A! In m St•vicn, t11111 flrutrnll\1 u•rr!)IJS, teer.. Slll:hilfTI"' .11'1.1 ''"'~may ,1(~. lli<;klll(l(}il hoOOIJI:)J~ llttw.r fll11llattrry f'I!<J u•UIJfHrl $'fl. MMihOO too$JO ."'.:: ·.. :: •. ,.11;· .: t_ •••• -, • • ·:..:· / ltmllnatlmffwl. Ol.lk.'!' rt'tltnn::~~) may~ Sl1f.l ~tftH lor ,k!~.c~ :_ l.nrutrtl t:!Tl" off!f ·'flOCfj liS. r.:anulrlr f)Jfp!JfiJUOII 




Army platoon leader penalized for assault 
Lieutenant sentenced to 45 days in prison 
Associated Press 
FORT HOOD, Texas-An Army platoon leader was sentenced niesday to 45 days in a military prison for his role in forcing three Iraqi civilians into the Tigris !liver. 
Army 1st Lt. Jack Saville also must forfeit $2,000 of his military salary each month for six months, military judge Col. Theodore Dixon ruled. 
Prosecutors had recommended Saville, who chose a nonjury trial, be discharged from the Army. 
"I hope to use these experi­ences for greater good," Saville, a 25-year-old West Point graduate, read from a statement. 
Saville pleaded guilty Monday to assault and other crimes for forcing two curfew violators into the river at gunpoint in January 2004 near Samarra. One of the men allegedly drowned. 
Saville was convicted Tuesday of a lesser assault charge for 
Friday, March @9:00pm 

Limit ofJj participants 

doing nothing to stop another Iraqi man from being foreed into the river near Balad in December 2003. 
The charges carried a maxi­mum 9 lfl-year sentence though a plea deal eapped the sentence at 15 months; that part of the agreement was kept secret so the judge would not be influenced, Army official<; said. 
During sentencing Tuesday, Saville apologized, saying his poor decisions "adversely affected U.S.­Iraqi trust during critical times of reconstruction." He said he has learned from his mistakes and has been forgiven by God. 
Earlier Tuesday, former soldier Terry Bowman testified that before the Balad incident, Saville laughed and said it was part of a bet with another platoon over who would do such a thing first. The actual orders, however, were given by Saville's co-defendant, Staff Sgt. Traey Perkins. 
Sign up at Brother Gorch Pool Hall Winner receives $75 Best Buy G.C.. $2 buy-in to participate, 
due at sign up. 




page 12 


THE OBSERVER 
Tin lntkpnulnt, Daily Newsp;,pn-Sm-ving Nom Damt! tmJ Saint Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabula$ AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4 543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's C..ollege. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements b:l$ed on content. 
The news is reported a$ accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q~«>tiom regarding Obsnverpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiifClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Mondq through FrkU.y except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription ro The Observer is $100 for one academic yeu; $55 for one semescer. 
Tile Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining_ Hall Send addr~ conections ru: Nom: D~me, IN 46556+0779 TheOb~ierver Ptriodkal postage paid at Notte Dame P.O.Il<>x 779 and additional m1iling offic:ea:. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notte Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member orthe As:s.ociat~ Press. All rcprodU.aion rights are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

---------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------~ 
Tl-lE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT 
Wednesday, March 16, 2005 

The magic of forgiveness 
I had one of those "don't put it off till tomorrow" moments last week. My father called last Thursday and told me that my grandmother (his mother) would probably not live much longer. "She won't recognize you or even know Kate Barrett you're there," he told me, "but if you want FaitlzPoint to come for yourself, you should." 
I went the next day, on Friday, and she died on Saturday, at 92. My dad was right; she didn't recognize me, and I doubt she knew I was there, even though she did blink a little at one point when I prayed a Hail Mary right in her ear. I did go for myself, and it's a day I won't forget, in part because I sat with my grandmother on the day before she died, but mostly because I got to sit there with my dad. 
My grandmother, I should note, was a complex and difficult woman. We never seemed to please her quite enough, though I think that may have been .the only way she knew how to love us-believing us to have the potential for just a bit more than what we were showing her. As it turned out, her own life never seemed to please her quite well enough either, even if to others it would appear she and my grandfather had achieved every mate­rial success. After my grandfather's death, she became more and more adept at re-inventing her own life story, adding more imagined money, travel and prestige every time she told a new audience her constantly-improv­ing autobiography. 
My mom and dad had cared for her for the last 15 years, since my grandfa­ther's death, guiding her from a rela­tively independent life through the gradual loss of her abilities and her freedom into the world of the nursing home. She did not make these changes gracefully or willingly, and my dad, an 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
't~ASH ley ~Mtn+ VJAS 1"AtceN ~TAGe 
AFTeR GoiNG d.JT FoR A f>ACSc Of CfGAReTTe.; AT 1:oo A,M ... u 
only child, bore the brunt of her ongo­ing anger, frustration and loneliness. 
Over the course of about three quiet hours, I sat with my dad last Friday in her room. If it's true that we learn how to take care of our own ailing parents by watching the way they took care of theirs, then I have learned how 
reconciliation in his ongoing pil­grimages, and especially, I think, in his prayer and belief that God's grace worked through what must have seemed at times too heavy a burden. 
My grandmother grew up during a time in our Church when faith was driven in part by fear -fear of some­how not fulfilling the obligations a demanding and punitive God seemed to have imposed. She carried that understanding of her faith into adult­hood. My dad and I wondered togetHer as we sat whether she was somehow afraid to die. Did she worry that she hadn't quite gotten it right somehow? That God waited for her with a list of the shortcomings she had accumulated and hadn't yet "erased" with her mul­titudes of daily Masses and rosaries? 
God graced my dad with the gift of forgiveness in his journey through my grandmother's last 15 years, trans­forming his pain into compassion for her and into hope and prayers for her 
healing and peace. Sometimes ­
paradise." I believe that my grandmother has gone to be with Jesus in paradise, that God forgives much more readily than she knew and that God gave that gift of healing to my dad. We again approach Holy Week, our holiest week. Again we can gratefully · approach the Lord who loves us, who forgives us, and who offers us the abil­ity, with his grace, to forgive each other in his name. 
l'IU• 

Kate Barrett works for Campus Ministry. She can be contacted at barrett.28@n d. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
to be a hero from my dad. 
He made the three-hour 
round trip to see her, 
first once a week, and 
in more recent years and months two or 
three times a week 
or more, even 
though he knew 
that he might be 
greeted by a tor­
rent of com­
plaints, frosty 

silence or a list of 
imagined affronts. 
As she grew more 
frail, she finally 

seemed to recognize 
a love and need for 
my father and mother 
that she hadn't been 
able to admit before. My 
dad, too, found healing and 
maybe even most times -we can't forgive on our own, but only with God's gen­erous help. We find that help in the Sacrament of Reconciliation and 
in our own pilgrim­ages with those whom God has given us to love. 
On Sunday we hear the Passion story for the first time this year. 
Jesus, while on the cross, forgives those who have abused him, mocked him and felt driven to kill him. He tells the "good thief' hanging beside him that, "Today you will be with me in 
News Sports Megan O'Neil Kate Gales 

OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Katie Laird Ann Loughery 
Katie Perry Kate Seryak 

"What we have done for 
Lisa Schultz Scene Do you already have an 
Submit a ourselves alone dies with us; what 
Viewpoint Ram a 

internship for the summer? Letter to the Editor at we have done for others and the
Becca Rosswurm Gottumukkala 

world remains and is immortal." 
Graphics Illustrator www. ndsmcobserver. com 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at
Graham Ebestch Graham Ebestch 
Albert Pike

www.ndsmcobserver. com 
American architect 


Tl-tE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 16, 2005 page 13 
The credentials generation 
It is ollicial. Spring brnak has eome to a dosn, and from somewhere deep within the eolloelivo wnarinoss of the campus mind, synapsns, long dormant, are begin­ning to lim. Ttwrn is a growing tnnsion about somo people, nven 
a kind of drnad. There is  Lance Gallop  
a wild rush to got.  
ongagnd, and small  The Third Way  
mammals have started  
flooing to tlw hinterland.  

!\II of thn signs are hem: graduation is coming. 
I must admit that I am more than a little appwhonsivn about tho whole business. l.ili1 aft.11r eollngo is famously rough. Still, I suspnl:t that fnar and doubt-playing on· of naeh otlwr-arn porfnetly normal. No mallnr how oft.Pn sonwonn mouths tho phras11 "Not.r11 Damn bubble" it never pre­pan1s onn li1r tho icn watnr of a normal and produdivn (road: savago) lilb. It also dons not lwlp rnators that by nnw, many of us hav11 a nim chunk of debt to forcn the isstw. 
But for nw atl<1ast. tlwro is something morn at tlw root of all this tnnsion. Very soon, I shall bn bnyond thn point of no rotmn, and tho prnparations I have made for tlw futuro will bncomo my reality. !lave 
I done right? What of the choiees that I made when I did not realize that they were lasting choieos? 1\nd more over, how I am expected to make any choices at all, when I am still not even sure what it is that I want out of life? 
I am not alone. We have become what some eall th() credentials generation. The perl•1et internship; the right mix of study, service, and work; law schools; MeATs; the perfect job; a power resume; a promotion; those key contacts; and do not forget the Notre Dame diploma. All of these are ground together and sifted over our heads in the hope that we might linally locate the eredentials that will complete us as per­sons. They lbcus our minds on the present, and shield us from the uncertainties in our futur-os and in ourselves. 
But in truth, a diploma just labels rne as an ex-studont. And no amount of creden­tials will evnr protect or eonsole me from weariness or pain. For, if I am honest with myself, I know that none of these things will ever give me any sort of happiness. and it is this truth that I lear most of all. 
That is wally the essence of the problem. Does a career, a diploma, have anything at all to do with my happiness? What have I thrown away liw the sake of that career, 
U-WIRE 
Day o' St. Pat on the way 
I enjoyed Black llisl.ory Month so much I thought Fnbruary's lessons should bn applind to March's Irish wondor-St. Patrick. I >id you know ho WlL<; kidnappnd in Grnat Britain and r11lomtnd to Jr·nlaml1L<; a slavo Joe Dowglallo l(u· six years? St. Patrick's eonnne­University of tion to Irish hnr­Maryland itagn hngan in tlw The sanw unfi1rtunatn Diamondback fashion tlutt led to tlw glorious civil righl'i rnvolution in thn Unitod Statos. Sinen Black llistory Month challenged us to per­potually cdebrato history and her­iutgP, wn ought to rnvernntly reflect upon tho sihrnifkance of St. Patrick and his day. 
Tho Irish-American and 1\frican­!\nwrican dilemma is finding a con­IW<:tion with the cui turn of a land soparatnd by the Atlantic Oenan and a progmssion of ynars. Black llistory Month is fillnd with nwnr­onee-an attribute many Irish 1\nwrkans f(mr is abstmt in the cele­bration of St. Patrick. I have an easi­or tinw l<tking HooL<;' Kunt.a Kinte soriously tlmn I do a leprechaun, fi>r oxamplo. Thn enlnbration of Martin Luther !<ing .Jr. allows some to say, "I'm going honwliJr the thrnn-day wnnkend, and my extended fiunily is eoming to visit." 
Whnn Marrh 17 rolls around, some say, ''I'm going straight lhr tho chirk not wnaring grnnn when I set fi>ol in It J. Bnnlley's." It's salil to say St. Patrick has bmm passnd over more limns than "llotnl Hwanda's" I>on Chmtdlo lin· Bnst Actor-two (Tinws in nnml of' anwnds. 
l'atrirk's loading rolo was olliwing religion to t.hoso without it. I le brought understanding to tho tllllli~roducatnd and is rmnnmbnrod as having a dov11r fhr a prop, which ha.<; hncorne Irish eulturn's icon. The dairn lw (1Xpnllf1d snakes from ln•land is liknly a mnl<tphor to dHscribe his succnssli!l conlhmta­l.ion with thn druids of' Tara (not your f'avorill~ Dungeons & Dragons d!L<;S, but actually pagan practition­ors). 
AnwrkanCatholic.org daims "a bettor advomtn th1m Patrick cannot lw linmd fi1r anymw disadVImtagnd or living on the fringns of society." 
Scholar Thomas Cahill adds, "The 
papacy did not condemn slavery as 
immoral until tho end of the 19th 
century. but here i'i Patrick in the 
filth eentury seeing it f()r what it is." 
Ireland takes ~:,rreat pride in these 
accomplishments and Patrick is its 
patron saint (it's a Catholic thing). 
!low much docs St. Patriek have 
to do with the United Slates? Welt, 
St. Patrick's Day i•;; an American hol­
iday, aeeording to the university's 
International Education Services. It 
is being celebrated at the university 
in various ways. On campuses 
nationwide. St. Patrick's Day is 
treated with a mixed reception, ulti­
mately mixed co1:ktails. 
I would be lying if I dairned I did not enjoy tlm testivitins associated with St. Patrick's Day. The stigma of the day being a drunken celebration of debauchnry has a special appeal to my college appetite. The 1\nwriean attitude toward the Irish has improved sinee the New York City of tho 1 SOOs and the slogan. "No Irish Need Apply." Drinking was stereotyped to make people believe ali Irish descendant<; were irrespon­sible employees. 
!laving progressed since then, the United States recognizes the poten­tial fi1r a person of any background to become an aleoholic and be irre­sponsible. It's eute (and a lot of fun) for people to express this unity in the expodnd dnstruetive behavior of Mareh 17. It's just rather appalling it geL'> done in the name of a saint, the irony ofwhieh makes the occa­sion all the more enjoyable to defamers. Perhaps 1\merieans just need a day ofalcoholic indulgence, 
just like llalloween is for candy 
fanatics. St. Patriek symbolizes a sacred heritage to many, tl1ough, 
and hrratitude shown to him should 
be with the same reverence for 
February's groat civil right<; 
activistc;. 

This column originally appeared in the March 15 edition ofThe /Jiamondback, the daily publication at The llniversity ofMaryland. 
'17w views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessari~IJ those lifThe Observer. 


and what willllose forever if I continue down this road? Maybe my happiness was among those things that I saerifieed. I worry that I have sold out to someone else's ideal, someone else's truth. and someone else's happi­ness. Maybe I should have been a farmer, like my great-~:,rrandfather, or a teacher like his father­in-law. Maybe I should have followed my friends to DaLian, or Ouagadougou. or to a Chilean snminary. 
I am envious of those with a greater sfmse of purpose than I, those who ean become doctors (and dentists), teach­ers, preachers and scholars out of a sense of duty and love. I am not surn if there is even a god of computer program­mers. or whether all that we do is just human contrivance, politics and business. Perhaps fol­lowing this path will just inevitably take 


me farther and farther away from whnt it is that I truly need and want. None of this thinking pul<; a stop to grad­uation of course, nor should it. But it does give it a sense of greater 
urgency and of deepnr impor­tance. I have many diflkult choices to make, as do all the mombnrs of' the ere­
dentials generation. Those choices will ulti­
mately load to happi­ness or to an illusion of it. Time will tell if 
wn choosn correctly. 
/.ance Gallop is a fifl.h-year senior majoring in comput­er science. philoso­
phy and theology. For those who are curious, he is a rum-Platonist and a '11wmist. lie can 
be contacted at lgallop@nd. edu. 11w views expressed in this 

column are those ofthe author and not necessari~IJ those t?{Thr• Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Thanks for nothing 
Like many of the other students on tllis eampus, you could say that I'm a cradle domer. I have been coming to football games fbr as long as I can remember, and this wa<; the only school I applied to out of high school. And so it is with great frustration that I write this letlill', for I am still in disbeliefthat this one place !loved so much has let me down so ofl.en. The graduating elass of 2005 has arguably gone through four ofthe worst years at Notre Dame. We have seen the alcohol policy changed simply for publicity sake, tho dorms we loved so much had their greatest traditions ripped away (SYHs and the like). tuition has increased at an alarming rate, seniors have been kicked out oflbot­ball games for throwing marshmallows, tailgating has been destroyed as we know it ... tl1e list goes on and on. Lot's face it, we are tho first elass to go through Notre Dame's new "No Fun Policy." The bottom line is that the University couldn't care less about how their actions aftect student life. 1\nd up until now. I've been able to deal with it. 
Ilowevnr, when I mad in yestnrday's papnr that tho golden dome, tim symbol oftl1is school, w~L" going to bo hidden by st:afli>lds during our gradua­tion, that was the la'it straw. Some ofyou may dis­agree with my earlier eomplainl'i, but this one is fi1lt by all ofus. You'rn telling me that tl1is prndous regilding can't be done between May 16 and September? 1\re you, the University. seriously going to daim that thnrn aron't 1mough "dry and wind­less" days between tl10se two datns? Bemuse Umt would be absurd. Something must bn done about this. I just w~mt to say tlumks, adminL'itration. Thank.•;; for dnstroying our ability to utke h'l"<mt fi.uni­ly pictures on onn ofthnmost important days of our lives. Thanks for not caring about thn student body ag~\in. Thank.c; for nothing. 
Kevin Rycyna 
SCIUOr 
ofl:.Cunptl~ 
March IS 

Consider it Christian 
I enjoyed reading the piece entitled "Can you afford to be a Liberal?" by Sarah MacMillen. Having lived in South Bend, I can attest to the cost of trying to live in consideration of others. It puz­zles me that many !bod chains drastieally raise the prices on organic and traditionally farmed foods to fool the consumer into believing that sustenance farming is more expensive, when in many ca.c;;es, it is just the opposite. 
How is it that in Los Angelos, arguably one of the most expensivo places to live in the United States, I can lind organic or traditionally farmed foods for cheap? Indiana is practically Amoriea's breadbasket, and yet I cannot ever rnmember see­ing a farmer's market advertisnd in Soutl1 Bond, or seeing anything organic or traditionally farmed under the price of livn dollars. I go to the Brentwood Farmer's Market and buy an entire sack of fresh vegetables and eggs that am organic or traditionally farmed for those same live dollars. I can also go to the Santa Monica or Beverly I Iills Farmer's Market and do just as well tl1ere. 
The mere faet that this artide was equated to living as a "liberal" (l see the categorization of people still persists undor the Dome) tells me sometl1ing. Are tl1e people or the Midwest so con­servative that they no longer support the old adages of farming'? When was it "un-eool" to mill about the fresh wares of the farming community on a Saturday or Sunday afternoon? I buy my chicken and eggs from a family at the Brentwood Farmer's Market every Sunday afternoon .. Even 
though it takes an extra two or three minutes of 
my time, I like hearing their son tell me how he is now old enough to harvest the oggs without his mother's supervi'iion. 
The fact that I buy organic or traditionally farmod foods, in my eyes, makes me very t:onser­vative. I support those who lhrm in ways that enrieh God's earth, rathor th<m hurt it. I support the littlest guy out there -tho singln liunily farmer. I support those who know no otlwr way of life but farming. I like soeing the boy at tho market smiling at me, as opposed to seeing the smilny faco ofWalmart inliltrating my living room nvnry evening. And I have to say that buying my fi1od while ba<;king in Uw sunlight sum bnaL<; shopping under tho cold hum of fluornscont lighting. 
Tho Notm Dame and Saint Mary's community pridns iLc;nlf on being socially a warn. llownvor, tho mere f'aet that Domers and Bnlles 11quato being environmnnk•lly, darn I say oconomieally. a warn with bning "libnral" sends shiv11rs down my spine. It shouldn't be libnral or eonsnrvativn. It should b11 considernd Christian. Tho Bible instrucl<; us to "do unto others as you would havo them do unto you." That is exaetly what I intend to do. Cod bl11ss. 
Holly M.Jamcs Sainr Mary's alumna Class of2002 Mard1 IS 
THE OBSERVER 






CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, March 16, 2005 
Famous tenor brings true Irish feeling to St. Patrick's Day 
Self-taught singer Ronan Tynan has risen above challenges to become an inspirational and world-famous performer 

J 
ust in time for St. Patrick's Day, the world-renowned Irish tenor Ronan Tynan will perform in the Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Thursday, March 17. The concert also features perform­ances from guests Vince Gill and the Notre Dame Glee Club. 
The majority of today's classically trained musicians hone their crafts through their collegiate experience, but the County Kilkenny native's voice has gained reputation as a natural talent. He broke into singing at the age of thirty­three and after less than a year of train­ing, won the top prize in the BBC talent show "Go For It" (a predecessor to "Pop Idol" and "American Idol" in the UK and the United States, respectively). The instant success led to his association with the "Irish Tenors" trio, along with John McDermott and Anthony Kearns. 

Tynan left the group last year to pursue soloist opportunities and has since essen­tiality made himself a household name in the United States -as well as endeared himself greatly to New York City. Sports fans undoubtedly recall his 7th inning renditions of "God Bless America" at Yankee Stadium and perhaps also his singing "New York, New York" at the 2004 Belmont Stakes. Tynan also devoted much time to funerals and memorials centering around Sept. 11, 2001, along­side such people as Bono, former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Billy Crystal, Barbara Bush and Regis Philbin. 
The tenor was also the only soloist for the funeral of former President Ronald Reagan, a request personally made by Nancy Reagan. 
Tynan was born with a lower limb dis­ability and ended up a double amputee at age 20. Even so, he had a steadfast and strong personality, and he committed himself to becoming an athlete, eventual­ly winning a total of 18 gold medals in the Paralympics and setting world records in the long jump, shot put and discus. He also earned a degree as a medical doctor from Ireland's Trinity College. 
The performance at Notre Dame kicks off a U.S. tour for Tynan. The tour is in conjunction with the recent release of his self-titled CD, featuring classic inspira­tions such as "How Great Thou Art" and "Amazing Grace," as well as popular tunes such as "Man of La Mancha" and "From a Distance." Tynan also wrote one of the songs -"Passing Through," a trib­ute to his mother who suffers from Alzheimer's disease. While doing much work in popular and Irish folk music, Tynan has also made his operatic debut as Pinkerton in Puccini's "Madama Butterfly" and has performed soloist roles in Verdi's "Requiem," Rossini's "Stabat Mater" and Puccini's "Messa di Gloria." 
The concert begins at 8 p.m. Tickets are $75 preferred seating, $50 for the general public, $40 for Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross faculty and staff, $37.50 for senior citizens and $20 for all students. 
Contact Brandon Hollihan at bholliha@nd.edu 

DVD REVIEW 
Human characters populate classic children's film 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Scene Editor 
BPI'orP a family of "inerodiblos" was ovon a glimnwr in his imagination. tlwrn was an PIIWml-YI~ar-old and his unlikely friendship with a lwrwvolont iron giant. 
I>irPctor Brad Bird. roePnt.ly anointPd with an AeadPnry Award for his work on l'ixar's "Tiw lrH~rndihlns," has excelled in thP animation busirwss l'or quito a whilP. flo has contrihutnd to sueh das­sic animatPd l'ar·n as "Tiw Simpsons" and tho Disney film "Tho Fox and tho llound." 
l>PspitP all his otlwr aecomplishmonts. Bini's most poignant and wholly human lilm may still bo his lirst roaturo film ­"Tiw Iron (;iant." Basod on a children's noVIll nntitl1Hl "The Iron Man" by Ted llughos, tlw film oxenls on many lovols, nxuding a ehildish sonsn or joy that is infectious and lwartwarming. 
Produeml at tlw Wanwr Bros. fnaturn animation studio. "The Iron Giant" was a tnlmnndous critical suecnss despite flying lwnnath tho radar or tho gnnnral publie. It quintly 1:raslwd and hurrwd at tlw box oflien. An uninspired marketing push never sold tho film to potential viowors and doomed tlw film on a quick 

Machines triumph in $36.5 million 'Robots' debut 
Assodatcd Press 
"Hohots" ruiPd the box ol'fiee as tho animated family f'liek debuted with $:H~.5 million -a solid opnning, but WPII IIPiow thn $4h.3 million prnminrn of' tlw f'ilmmakers' previous hit, "len AgP." 
While "lc~n Age" opnnnd with littln r o 111 p n ti t ion I'or t lw fa m i I y crowd . "Hohots" l'aePd Vin l>insPI's hit "The Padlinr." tlw pnwious weeknnd's No. 1 movi11. "Tho Padfinr" linished a strong snrond with $1 X. I million, lifting its 10­day total to $54.4 million, according to 
studio nstimat1~s Sunday. 
The wnekend's othnr nnw wide ndnasn, the Bruee Willis poliee thriller "llostage," dehutnd at No.4 with $9.X million. 
M11l (; i bso n 's religious bloekhustnr "The Passion of thn Christ," whieh grossed $370 million last year, made bandy a ripple at theaters in a recut version that toned down the blood and vio­lence. "The Passion Hecut" 
"The holidays are coming up, kids are getting out of school, so it's positioned wonderfully. " 
Bruce Snyder Fox studio executive 
playod in 957 theaters but took in just $239,X50. 
In sharp contrast to the firestorm over the original film, the new version of' "The Passion" arrived quietly, with little fanfare. The fact that the original is available on DVD limited theatrical prospeets for the recut edition. 
Gibson said he recut the movie for people who were put off by the brutality of the original, which explicitly depieted Christ's scourging and crucifixion. 
path to home video. 
Timed to coincide with the smash suc­cess of "The lnerodiblns," Warner Bros. has rnissuod a new special edition of "The Iron Giant," complete with a host of nnw special features and a nnw digi­tal video transfer. Thn new DVD linally dnlivnrs justice to tho film and pays homage to Bircl's ereativo brilliance. 
Set in the 1 ')50s following thn launch of the Hussian Sputnik satellite, t.hn lilm follows thn exploits of Hogarth llughes (voiced by Eli Marienthal), an eleven­year-old with an active imagination and a pension l'or horror films and adven­tures. 
While alone in the house at night, llogarth discovers the Iron Giant (voiced by Yin Diesel) in his own baekyard ­the thick woods of Maine. Befriending the innocent alien robot, he elicits t.he help of a friendly junkyard operator, Dean (voiced by Harry Connick .Jr.) in hiding the 50-foot-tall giant from Kent Mansley (voiced by Christopher McDonald), a paranoid government agent. 
Hiding behind the veneer of an inno­cent children's tale, "The Iron Giant" is populated by very real characters, as human as any seen in live-action fea­ture films. Although it cleverly uses the 11J50s Cold War setting as a backdrop to show­ease that period's mass paranoia, its message can easily be applied to the 21st century. Hussian spies and atomic holo­caust can easily be sub­stitutod for foreign ·ter­rorist threats and nuclear warfare. The lilm's lessons are simple but at. the same time 
"We certainly had higher nxpecta­tions than what we got," said Hob Schwartz, head of' distribution for Newmarket Films, which released "The Passion of' the Christ" and t.he nnw cut. "We wnrc trying to get thn f'ilm out thorn hoping it would reach an audi­ence that it didn't reach the first time around. It doesn't seem to have worked out quite as well as we had hoped." 
Newmarket executives hopn more movin-goers will turn out as Easter approaehes, Schwartz said. 
"Hobots," featuring the voices of' Ewan McGregor, llalle Berry, Hobin 
Williams and Mel Brooks, is the second 1'1~ature-length eartoon tale from "lee Age" directors Chris Wedge and Carlos Saldanha. The movie tracks the adventures of an ideal­istic robot inventor who moves to the big city. 
While "Robots" did not enter theaters with the profile of "Shrek 2" 
and "The lncredibles," which opened to sky-high numbers, it had been expected to rival the opening weekends for 2002's "Ice Age" and last year's "Shark Tale." 
Rut competing with "The Pacifier," "Robots" fell about $10 million short of both those debuts. 
"Those other movies didn't have any­thing that was working the families with this strength, so I am very, very pleased," said Bruce Snyder, head of firmly based in reality, rising above the conventions of the average Disney ani­mated fare. 
But the l'ilm's foundation is still set firmly upon the touching friendship between Hogarth and the Iron Giant and. Although the Giant appears to be quite benevolent and altogether harm• less, thern are still hints at its more sin­ister origins. Hogarth refuses to ques­tion the Giant's past, prefnrring instead to teach his new 50-foot pal the joys of comic books, television and cannon­balling into a local lake. Through it all, Hogarth reminds the Giant that he always has a choice -to be the heroic Superman everyone adores or the arch­villain everyone fears. 
The special edition DVD features an oxcellent new digital vi~eo transf1~r as well as a solid surround-sound audio track. The video transfer highlights the film's vivid color palette and is quito striking. 
The real heart of the special edition lies in the wealth of special features. These features inelude an audio eom­mnntary with key mnmbnrs of the ern­ative team (induding Bird himself), 1X minutns of deleted scenes and several short foaturcttes on the production, design and voiefl talent in the film. These features provide a penk at the amount of love that went into making this project, and there is nary a regrnt to be found for the film's dismal box office returns. 
Bird infuses the projnet with the same sonse of life and eharaeter that. pnr­vades "The lncrndiblns." Bmwath the simple stor¥ o{ boy's friendship with an all-too-human robot !ins the beating heart of' an animation dassic. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at 
rgottumu@nd.edu 


distribution for Fox, the studio behind "Robots." "The holidays are coming up, kids are getting out of school, so it's positioned wonderfully." 
In limited release, the Joan Allen­Kevin Costner comic drama "The Upside of Anger" opening strongly with $225,783 in nine theaters. 
The film, centering on a boozy mother embittered over the abrupt departure of her husband, expands to about 150 theaters this weekend. 
"Millions," a British family film from director Danny Boyle ("Trainspotting," "28 Days Later") grossed $72,987 in five theaters. 
The movie follows two young brothers momentarily distracted from grief over their dead mother after a suitcase of cash lands in their laps. 
It expands gradually over the next six weeks. 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 16, 2005 
NCAA TOURNAMENT 


Oakland gets 64th berth in first tourney win 
Associated Press 
DAYTON, Ohio-It took eight years in Division I for Oakland to get its first win in the NCAA tournament. 
As a reward, the Golden Grizzlies get to play top-seeded North Carolina -in Charlotte, no less. 
Oakland broke open a tight game behind Rawle Marshall's 29 points and Cortney Scott's 21 to beat Alabama A&M 79-69 Tuesday night in the opening round of the NCAA tournament at the University of Dayton. 
"There can't be too many col­leges who can say they won a game in the NCAA tourna­ment," a grinning Marshall said. "We'll ride this momentum and see how far it takes us." 
The Golden Grizzlies (13-18) won their sixth game in a row, including three upsets in as many days last week by a com­bined seven points to take the Mid-Continent Conference title, giving them a berth in the field of65. 
"If we win the national cham­pionship, we'll finally get to 19­18," coach Greg Kampe said with a laugh. 
Now they get to play the mighty Tar Heels on their home turf. 
"To play against some of the No. 1 players in the nation ­it'll be great to put your talent up against them and see where you stand," Scott said. 
Oakland became only the fifth team with a losing record to win an NCAA tournament game, following Bradley in 1955 and the last three years at the Dayton opening round: Siena in 2002, UNC-Asheville in 2003 and Florida A&M a year ago. 
"There was a whole lot of adversity during the season," said Brandon Cassise, who chipped in with 13 points. "It brought us together. That's why we've played so well in these do-or-die games." 
Obie Trotter scored 24 points and Joseph Martin added 22 for Alabama A&M (18-14), regular­season and tournament champs of the Southwestern Athletic Conference. 
Both teams were making their first appearance in the NCAA tournament. Oakland made the jump from Division II to Division I in the 1997-98 sea­son. 
As the Golden Grizzlies stretched the lead to 21 points with 5 minutes left, the embold­ened Oakland student section began chanting, "We want Tar Heels! We want Tar Heels!" 
The turnaround is almost incomprehensible for a team that was 7-18 and riding a three-game skid just 18 days earlier. Almost as incredible, Oakland opened the season 0-7, losing by an average of 13 points a game against a who's who of powerhouses: Illinois, Marquette, Xavier, Missouri, Texas A&M, Kansas State and Saint Louis. 
Marshall, a wiry, 6-foot-7 sen­ior swingman expected to be taken in the NBA draft this spring, was the focal point for the Golden Grizzlies most of the night. 
He was 9-of-16 from the field, including 3-for-4 on 3-pointers and 8-of-11 in free throws, to go with nine rebounds and three assists. 
Marshall's most dramatic play came in the opening half. He took a pass on the right elbow, pump-faked a defender off his feet and then sliced through the lane for a soaring dunk and a foul. A crowd of 8,254 roared its approval. 
Ahead 38-35 at the break, Oakland scored 16 of the first 18 points in the second half. 
Patrick McCloskey, who had sleepwalked through the first half with no points and two rebounds in 12 minutes, led the surge with five points, five rebounds and a blocked shot. The 260-pound Scott, a transfer from Iowa, added four points on two twisting inside moves, Cassise <:arne off the bench for two baskets and Marshall hit a 3-pointer. 
"It took us a while to learn how to play against their speed," Kampe said. "We com­pletely controlled the tempo the rest of the game." 
The Rochester, Mich., school with an enrollment of 16,500 pushed the lead to 54-37 and the lead never dropped below double digits. 
"This is surreal," Cassise said. "I can't believe it's all happen­ing." 
Scott built his 21 points on 9­of-14 shooting and added eight rebounds and McCloskey had 11 rebounds as the Golden Grizzlies took a 43-29 edge on the boards. 
A&M coach L. Vann Pettaway said his team was worn out from playing four games in six days, winning the conference tournament on Sunday before hitting the road less than 24 hours later to make it to Dayton. 
NATIONAL INVITATIONAL TOURNAMENT 
Diener's 30 lift DePaul over Missouri in 75-70 victory 
Associated Press Diener your best effort." was the only DePaul player with his uncertain future. Chaney remained calm through­
Quemont Greer added 17 a 3-pointer. He was at his best "I think I hear my mother call­out, mostly just sitting on the 
COLUMBIA, Mo.-Aftnr burn­points and Draelon Burns had at the end, scoring DePaul's ing me," he said when asked. bench. ing Missouri from 3-point range six assists for the Blue Demons final seven points in the last ''I'll be leaving you now if you The Hokies, meantime, gave all night, Drake Diener's biggest (20-1 0), who dropped to the NIT 1:50. have no more questions [about] the crowd of 7,416 plenty to shot of the game ended up being after losing three of the last four Diener was 11-for-15 overall, my kids. That's the only reason cheer about. a tip-in. regular-season games. DePaul topping his previous career best I'm here -to talk about the Making their first postseason 
Diener scored a career-high will play the winner of Clemson of 28 points against Dayton on team and the game." appearance in nine years and 30 points and tied his career vs. Texas A&M in the second March 18, 2004, and he hit Temple athletic director Bill their first in the NIT in a best with seven 3-pointers, lead­round. seven 3-pointers for the second Bradshaw said Monday that he, decade, Virginia Tech (16-13) ing DePaul to a victory over the Linas Kleiza had 23 points and time in his career. He also had Chaney and others will get shook off some early shooting Tigers in the first round of the Thomas Gardner 17 for that many at Charlotte on Feb. together once the season is over woes and grabbed control once NIT. The tip-in by the 6-foot-5 Missouri (16-17), which had a 16. to talk about the future it solved the matchup zone. guard was made with 20 sec­losing season for the first time The subject of the game was "We just had to feel our way onds left for a three-point lead. since it also was 16-17 in 1996-Virginia Tech 60, Temple 50 no bargain either for the Owls through the zone and a couple 
"I usually spend my life about 97. The Tigers have been in the John Chaney's return to the (16-14), who were trying to give of guys stepped up," said 14-15 feet out," Diener said. postseason eight straight sea­bench for Temple came without their coach his SOOth victory at Dowdell, who fmished 3-for-9 on "But I think to say that a big guy sons, but the last two they've any fanfare -and without any Temple, but led only until 3-pointers. "We made a couple likes doing things from the out­lost in the first round ofthe NIT. success for the Owls. Virginia Tech got a few 3-point­of shots. After that, it was just side, and for guards it's fun to "I thought our team really Zabian Dowdell scored 12 of ers to fall in the first half. taking care of the ball." get in the paint and in the mix." regressed a little bit," coach his 16 points in the second half, "Coming into the season, I The Hokies, who won the NIT 
Coach Dave Leitao said he kid­Quin Snyder said. "Tonight it six in a game-turning 8-0 run, thought this was perhaps one of in 1973 and 1995, finished with ded Diener after the game that was almost as if we kind of and Virginia Tech beat the Owls my greatest teams," the 73-five turnovers, one in the second it was probably his first tip-in in thought it was just going to hap­in the first round of the NIT. year-old Chaney said. "It's a half. After a quick look at the three seasons they've been pen for us. Chaney was coaching his first bunch of players that did not Hokies' basketball history this together. "We didn't defend the way game since serving a three­mix well and we miscalculated week, they became intent on 
"I don't know if I'll have a we've defended and we settled week suspension for sending how they could be effective." adding to it. more special person who hap­for jump shots." Nehemiah Ingram in to commit Chaney was booed when he "I lined the guys up yesterday pens to be a special player," Diener, a senior who averages hard fouls that left Saint entered the court, and Ingram and had them look up and read Leitao said. 'That's why you get 13.6 points and is a 45 percent Joseph's senior John Bryant drew jeers when he made two the banners and the years," sec­up and go to the office every shooter from 3-point range, was with a broken arm on Feb. 22. free throws. There was security ond-year coach Seth Greenberg day. You know you owe Drake 7-for-11 from long range and He had nothing to say about behind the Owls' bench, but said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without· issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
Get paid to think. 
Make $75 taking on-line surveys. www.mone:iauthor.com 
WANTED 
Catholic family offering lull time summer childcare opportunity; 
4 children ages 6 to 12; Scottsdale Mall area; 
7:30am to 4:30pm; wages negotiable; 
non smoker; own transportation needed. 
Call Maureen 360-1738. 
Summer Camp Counselor for chil­dren w/disabilities.Must have strong work ethic and be interested in mak­ing a difference in the life of a child. $7-$11 hr., 35 hr/wk. summer only. 6 sites in Summit County, Ohio. Must enjoy outdoor activities. Visit www.akroncyo.org to download an application from the Job Opportunities link. EOE 
FoR SALE 

OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE. 4 rm, 2 bath. For details limbel.1 @nd.edu or 574-261-0900. 
FoR RENT 

COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINIUMS AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 SCHOOL YEAR.TWO BEDROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY 235-7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUS­ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BED­ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006­2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7­8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEB­SITE WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER 574-234-2436 OR 574-315-5032. 
Great 6-7 bdrm home available 6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm available NOW. Both Close to ND,W/D,on-site park­ing. ND Internet Canopy access. Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 
19237 Cleveland 7 bdrm ­52950 Marks 5 bdrm ­202 E. Cripe 4 bdrm ­222 E. Willow 3 bdrm.2773097 
Clean homes close to ND. 2-8 bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask about FREE student rent program. Blue & Gold Homes (574)250-7653. 

2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 S.B. AVE­605 ST. PETER CALL 532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM 
6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER MONTH + DEP. STAFF AND FACULTY ONLY. CALL BRUCE 876-3537. 
2-3 bdrm houses avail. now and 05-06. Close to ND. 
Call 276-2333. Omni Properties 
KNOLLWOOD HOME FOR RENT, 4BD,2.5 BATH, $1650. 
858-722-4469. 
CORBY ST. HOUSE 4 RENT. MAY-JULY. CALL 284-5223. 
Walk or bus to campus. 4 br/2b newly remodeled. Laundry. garage. 574-876·8571 
2,4 & 5 B-Rooms,close to campus, call 234-9923, ask for Rod. 
PERSONAL 
TypisVfranscriptionist lor Faculty & Students. Professional results. Call Lori (574)291-9945. 
Eileen: weak beam builder extraor­dinaire... don't let her operate on you 
She's kind of a princess... she likes leather... sometimes she forgets to breathe ... she likes her fruit dirty ... and now she's 20 
The Dining Hall Grand Prix: A Once-In-A-Lifetime Opportunity 
Regan-luck of the Irish at Worlds 
O.C./Monopoly Night and the South Bender. .. Thursdays will never be the same. "It's not a look, it's just my lace" 

Wednesday, March 16, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

WHAT ARE YOU CALLED TO DO? 
NFL 
Redskins attempt to sign DE Brown 
LAW 

CAREERS AS VOCATIONS 
, I panel 4alumni all() ,J!wniM<' r<:flect on tf.,e intt:qratt~l/1 ·~ft'aith mu) .wt~zl twtcem.r titto /ij;• f,,·ymu) JV,,{Jy /Jame. 
Sunday, March 20 4:00-5:30 pm Center for Social Concerns Pizza will be served. 
·--------·--. 
SpeakerJ 

Peter Tomas J\lorgan '90, '98 J D, '99 LLM Coordinator, Youth Justice Project Robinson Community Learning Center 
McRae Miller ,J D Candidate '06 Notre Dame Law School 
,.... 
Ct.NTER 'OR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
li 

Associated Press 
The Washington R1~dskins made the first overtures to Courtney Brown, with coach Joe Gibbs flying to Cleveland on Tuesday to try to woo the one­time top draft pick who was cut by the Browns the previous day. 
Within hours after Brown's release, Gibbs and defensive line eoach Greg Blache had din­ner with the oft-injured defen­sive end and his wife. 
Cleveland has said it would like to re-sign the No. 1 pick in the 2000 draft, who was released a day before he was due a $2.5 million roster bonus. If Brown were to join the Hedskins, he would be reunited with his Penn State teammate, linebacker LaVar Arrington, who was taken with the second overall pick that year and also has been plagued by injuries. 
If Washington acquires Brown, the team will have the top three picks from that draft: Brown, Arrington and tackle Chris Samuels. 
In another development Tuesday, Minnesota signed widn receiver Travis Taylor, a disap­pointment with Baltimore after being taken 1Oth overall in 2000. It probably put an end to any chance Plaxico Burress will end up with the Vikings, one of the few teams that had some interest in the player thought to be the most sought rncnivnr in fren agnncy. 
Pro Bowl left tackle Orlando Pace wrapped up a two-day visit with the llouston Texans, the first step of a process that could eventually lead to a trade with St. Louis. 
"We've had contaet with tho Hams and we brought the play­er in for a visit," Texans general manager Charley Cass1~rly said. "That's all I'm going to say for now." 
St. Louis faces a 4 p.m. EST Wednesday deadline to re-sign Pace. "After that, under NFL rules tho Hams wouldn't be allowed to strike a deal with him until July 15. 
With most of the top players in froe agency already signed, there were some lesser contract agreements Tuesday. 
Tight end Anthony Becht, a late first-round pick in 2000, signed with Tampa Bay, leaving the New York .Jets. The Bues are hoping his blocking helps their run game. 
Offensive tackle Stockar McDougle signed with Miami. McDougle had bonn Detroit's starting right tackle. 
Arizona signed former Seattle linebacker Orlando lluiT. .Jacksonville re-signed wide reeeiver Troy Edwards and run­
ning  back  Chris  Fuamatu­ 
Maafala,  both  former  
Pittsburgh Steelers.  

The Hispanic Law Students' Association cordially invites the Notre Dame communityto attend this year's Graciela Olivarez Award Ceremony Saturday, March 19, 2005 
This prestigious award is given in honor ofGraciela Olivarez, the first Hispanic and first female to graduate from NDLS. The Award is bestowed each year upon aHispanic lawyeror judge who best exemplifies Graciela Olivarez's commitment to community service, demonstration of the highest ethical and moral standards, and dedication to justice. This year's recipient is Mercedes Colwin, Partner, Correspondent, &Community Activist. 
Award Ceremony begins at 11:00 am in the Law School Courtroom 
Indianapolis considers building nevv stadiun1 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Lawmakers started over Tuesday in their work to find the money for a new Indianapolis Colts stadium after several proposals failed during the first half of the legislative ses­sion. 
A Senate committee listened to city ollicials and Colts coach Tony Dungy speak about the benefits of a new stadium and expanded convention center, but most sena­tors already seemed supportive of the project-at least in theory. 
Senate Tax Committee Chairman Luke Kenley, H­Noblesville, said while the idea of a new stadium had broad sup­port, funding will be tricky in a tight budget year. 
The proposed 63,000-seat retractable roof stadium to replaee the RCA Dome is project­ed to cost between $550 million and $700 million. 
"We all want to do it," Kenley said. "Now we need to see who will pay." 
The lobbying effort for the new stadium included NFL commis­sioner Paul Tagliabue, who met with Gov. Mitch Daniels in the afternoon and was to attend an evening reception for lnhrislators. 
"I think the need is elear," Tagliabue told reporters after meeting with the governor. "And I think the opportunity is a good one." Several NFL cities have formed public-privatn partner­ships to build new stadiums, Tagliabue noted. 
"It's a mixturP of publi1~ and private funding -it's a public and private asset," he said. 
Kenley and other members of the Senate have their chanc1~ to make a funding plan on which the state, city and team can agree. Several House bills to finance the stadium died in thn first half of the legislative session, although the legislation eould bn revived by adding them to other bills. 
"We're kind of in the third quarter of this game and we're running out of timeouL'i," Kenley said. 
House Speaker Brian Bosma, H-lndianapolis, said some law­makers met Monday with Colts owner .Jim lrsay to discuss the project. A group of city ollicials, Coll'i representatives and Senate and House members planned to start work on a new funding plan, starting with a meeting Wednesday. Bosma said llousn Hepublicans in the group want to make sure the stadium money comes from balanced sources, including the city and the team. He also said lawmakers wanted to look at the stadium ahrremnent Indianapolis Mayor Bart Peterson reached with the Colts to see whether it is fair. 
"There are still a lot of discus­sions that need to happen," Bosma said. 
Fred Glass, prnsidenl of the Indianapolis Capital lmpro­vmnnnt Board. which oversnes the HCA Dome and the adjoining convention cenll~r. said Tagliabue's visit eould bring per­sperliVP about how otlwr stadi­ums have bel'n eonstruetPd using NFL loans. 
Write 


page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, March 16, 2005 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Georgia Tech coach recovering from heart attack 
tle while, it really was," athlet-. center. Two university doctors Most of the players learned Jackets have yet to win more
Gailey suffers heart 

ic director Dave Braine said. examined Gailey and called an of Gailey's condition shortly than seven games in a season attack on racquetball "We were told it was serious, ambulance to take him to after he went into the hospital. after eclipsing that total each so everybody said a prayer and Piedmont Hospital, just a cou­"I couldn't believe it," said of the last four years under 
court, has surgery hoped he was going to be fine, ple of miles away from the safety Chris Reis, one of the O'Leary. 
and he is. His family -his downtown campus. team's top defensive players. Gailey plays racquetball Associated Press wife and his "They did "He's like a every morning, two sons­father figure to but was told by
"It was touch and gofior a an EKG and
ATLANTA -It was a normal there with found out all of us. He's "! couldn't believe doctors that he'll morning for Chan Gailey. The him, and little while. We were told it that he was like a mentor to need to make a
it. He's like a 
Georgia Tech football coach he's doing was serious, so everybody having a all of us. It's just major change in
father figure to us. " 
was running around the rac­well." heart attack," disbelief and a his diet to reduce
said a prayer and hoped
quetball court, getting in a lit­Gailey, Braine said. feeling of help­the chances of tle exercise before getting who turned he was going to be fine, Braine said lessness. You Chris Reis additional heart down to work. 53 in and he is.,, the angio­can't do anything Yellow Jackets safety problems, accord­
Suddenly, he felt a tightening January, plasty was except hope for ing to Braine. in his chest. began feel­needed to the best." "The worst thing
Dave Braine
Then, a pain surged through ing pain clear an Gailey, entering is he's not going to his left arm. during his Georgia Tech athletic director artery that his fourth season as Georgia be able to eat ice cream any­He was having a heart usual early was 100 per-Tech's coach, has a 21-17 more," Braine said. attack. morning cent blocked. record and has guided the Georgia Tech began spring 
Gailey was rushed to the racquetball game at the cam­He wasn't aware of the coach Yellow Jackets to three practice last Friday. Much of hospital Monday, where doc­pus recreation center. having any previous heart straight bowl appearances, the attention is focused on the tors performed a balloon "He does it religiously every problems. extending the school-.record quarterback position, with jun­angioplasty to clear an artery morning, so it isn't like he's "He'll be in hospital probably streak to eight years. ior-to-be Reggie Ball fighting that was totally blocked. He not trying to take care of him­three or four days, but they do This is considered a critical to keep his job. was resting comfortably and self," Braine said.. expect a complete recovery," year for Gailey, who has been The Yellow Jackets were expected to make a full recov­After calling the school's ath­Braine said. "We expect him to criticized for failing to match scheduled to practice Tuesday, ery. letic trainer, the coach went be back here within a few the success of his predecessor, Friday and Saturday, then take 
"It was touch and go for a lit-. next door to the student health weeks." George O'Leary. The Yellow next week off for spring break. 
2005 Arts & Letters Majors and Program Fair 

Wednesday, March 16, 2005 4:30-6:00pm Library Concourse 
~ 
\....) 

Advisors from most Majors, Minors and Area Studies Programs will be available to provide information and answer questions for all students. 
School officials were consider­ing whether to cancel practice this week, with hopes that Gailey would be well enough to resume at least some of his duties after the break. 
Spring practice is scheduled to end April 16. Georgia Tech would likely need a waiver from the NCAA to extend its spring schedule an extra week. 
"I think he would want us to go ahead and go through prac­tice," Reis said. "He's one of those coaches who's very hum­ble. He doesn't want things ·to stop on account of him." 
Gailey previously coached the Dallas Cowboys for two seasons, leading the team to an NFC East championship and consecutive playoff appear­ances. Despite that success. he 
was  fired  by  owner  Jerry  
Jones.  
Gailey also worked  as  an  

assistant with the Denver Broncos, Pittsburgh Steelers and Miami Dolphins. He was a head coach at Samford and Troy State and served a one­year stint in the same position with the Birmingham Fire of the World League of American Football. 
He is one of several football 


_ Th~ progr..un s.c~J~"Ct~i can be either in the Uni!et.i States or in a toreign cotmtry. ·n1e ·, rornpeHHon i~ ;\lOT open to seniors or gr.ldUilte students completing their d~r~">S. 
'i\j-)plications am available at http:l/w\Nw.nd.edu/~casor tr~1n1 the Centtkr !·or Asi,Jn Studies ,-... ' (327 OSh~tughnt?ssy ): you ll'l<'fY fC(luttSl one by mati by ct.1lhng i-·(}.487. 
they want to and don't get to work out as much as they want to. Then, when you add all the stress to that, it's definitely a recurring theme throughout coaching. 
"I don't know how you cut it back. You just try to relax and do your best." 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, March 16, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
BENGAL BOUTS 
Christoforetti reflects on four fighting years 
mistakn or try to force them to
Following brother's 
makn a mistako and then footsteps, the senior attaek it," he said. "I like to watch tho person I'm going tomade Jzis own niche light to son if there's a mistake· or sonwthing I can capitalize on. I attack it from the same
By MATT PUGLISI viewpoint every time, but I'll 
As""·ia1e Sporls Edi10r 
chango my specific tactic." Thus far, the synergistic 
·Senior captain Jim strategy has proven quite suc­ChristoforPlti had already cessful. made up his mind. Aftnr advancing t.o the sec­
Tlw younger brothnr of ond round in each of his first t.hrnn-tinw IhO-pound weight two years, Christ.oforotti won rlass winrwr .John all four of' his fights junior year Chrisloforetti I I<J<J:i-'1)7) and on routn to victory in thn 180­proud holdnr of four martial pound weight elass -the same arts bl<u:k lwlts and a B1mgal class he has fought all four B0 u t s ti tl (~ 0 f his 0 w II • ynars. Ch ristoforntti was morn than Aftor a quostionablo sncond­familiar with t.hn annual fund­round dncision ended his soph­raising, fa('(~-smashing lourna­omoro campaign, however, nwnt known as Bm1gal Bouts Christoforetti nnarly didn't wlwn lw stnpJHHI on rarnpus rntum to thn Bouts as a junior. four ynars ago. In the nnd, swallowing the 
"Wiwn I was in f'ifth grade, disappointing d!d'eat has my brother r.amo to Sl'hool turned out to be the most lwn~. and h1· was a thrnn-ynar important lesson Christoforntti (' h a Ill p and p r I' s i d I' n t 0 r tlw has IIHtrnnd t.h ro ughou t his rluh," Christofordti said. "I Bengal Bouts journoy. <'arrw in as a frnshruan wanting "Jiighl.ing is a vnry humbling to do it." nxpnriencn," Christoforetti 
For tho ofT-1:ampus finance said. "It givns your pnrspective. major. tlw motivation for par­The biggnst thing J'vn learned ticipating in Bnngal Bouts is is that you can be hit and get multifold. up and kenp going -you can on my toes the whole time, and maintain that." about Bm1gals is definitnly tho 
"Formnost. il's a lot of fun -pcrsovnre." even though I was in control." With much of America bat­people l'vn met and thn pnopln I n~ally enjoy it," Christoforntti Tho ascnnt to Bnngal Bouts Christoforetti is slated to tling the bulge, Christoforetti that have bocomo my friends," said. "I can get in slmp1~ and do captain senior ynar has contin­meet Alumni junior Jeff Golen doesn't seem to have much Christoforntti said. "Without somnthing I love, but it's also ued to pay dividnnds both in the elass semifinals trouble dropping pounds to question, hands down. no for a really grmtt cause, so it's inside and outside the ring. Wednesday. prepare himself to light. doubt about it, it's been my kind of a win-win. Plus, I ·fovn "Everyday I talk in front of "Jeff is a good fighter," "The biggest thing is that if best experience here at Notre tnaching poopln to fight, as 125 guys, so it's helped me give Christoforetti said. "''d rather you cut back the amount that Dame. I have tho utmost well." spenches in elass immeasur­not say how I plan to fight him, you eat and make really easy respect for everybody that goes 
While the fighting bad­ably," Christoforetti said. "As but I expect him to be tough." switches like McDonald's to through tho program --tlw ground is undoubtndly valu­far as technique, it's helped my While the brutal Bengal Subway. it makes a huge dif­camaradnrie is definitely the able to the formnr Alumni rnsi­personal fighting immensely. Bouts training regimen is no ference because you're work­best part." dnnt, Christoforntti is quiek to We go around and teach peo­secret --rumors of push-ups, ing out every day," So, looking back at the four point out the dif'l'ernncn ple, so I have to know what I'm sit-ups and jumping-jacks in Christoforetti said. "Over the years of grit and glory in the lwtwnnn martial arts and box­saying in order to teach it to the hundreds, lengthy runs and last three years I've lost 30 squared circle, is there any­ing. someone else. I get to see so hours of fighting drills quickly pounds each year from thfJ thing Christoforetti would have 
")Martial arts are) not quite many people doing things make their way across the beginning of January until our done differently'? as intnnse as being out in tlw wrong and right and what frozen South Bend landscape weigh-in in February. I basical­"I would have worked out ring in Bengal Bouts," works and what doesn't work, -the trim-down diet many of ly just eoncentrate on being in more over the Christmas holi­Christoforetti said. "It's a eom­and it helps me work out the the fighters adopt can be just the best shape I can be so I can day," Christof'orotti said with a pll~tHly different atmosphere kinks in my own fighting." as staggering. fight the best." smile. "It's always been some­than any otlwr kind of lighting . On March 3, Christoforetti For Christoforetti, a little Ultimately. it hasn't been the thing I've wanted to do and J'vH donn bnforn." moved a step closer to repeat­advice from Subway's infamous knockout blows or glory of vic­always said I'm going to do." 
ldnntifying himself as a ing as 180-pound champion, Jared goes a long way. tory that have helped make If last year's rnsults are any counter-figh tor, Christo foretti polishing 0 rr Di Ito n senior "A lot of guys do a lot of dif­Bengal Bouts such an unforget­indication, come tho 2005 couples impressive natural Michael Schmied in a unani­ferent things," Christoforetti table experience for Bengal Bouts 1HO-pound ability with extensive prepara­mous decision. said. "Some do the wrestler­Christoforetti, but instead, thn weight class Finals, a little tion to !nave opponents on the "Bning back in the ring was style -it's really unhealthy lifelong friendships and spirit extra holiday rest for tho 6­mat and his arm raised high nothing short of incredible," and we discourage it. I actually of companionship that accom­foot-3 right-hander won't hurt r.omn the end of the fight. Christoforetti said. "My game go on the Jared Subway diet. I pariies strapping on the gloves a bit. 
''I'm really pationl--I like to plan was to counter light, and I eat Subway twice a day --it's and going to work day in and fnel out Imy opponn n t I and was able to do so. Schmind is a the quickest and easiest way to day out for over two months. Contact Matt Puglisi at tlwn wait for thorn to makn a tough fighter, and I had to stay know exactly what I'm eating "The thing I like the most mpuglisi@nd.edu 

WOMEN'S ROWING 
No. 16 crew team prepared to take on Spartans 

start due to inclement weather  "The normal race lengths of  going into this spring, better  departure.  
By KYLE CASSILY  conditions.  2000 meters will be shortened,  than we were last year."  "We  approaehed  and  did  
Spuns Wri1cr  The Irish are not intimidated  and it will be more of a scrim- Tho first varsity eight is com­ things differently last fall,  so  
by the higher  mage",  says  ing off a  strong spring last  the rnsult  was  not good  or  
Tho No. 16 Notre Dame wonwn 's rowing team looks to o v n reo nw t h e i n c I e m e n t  r a n k e d Spartans. "We only saw  "We approached and did things differently  Stone. A harsh win­ter has not  year, finishing 11th in the NCAA Championships. The crew consists of' coxswain  bad," Stone said. "Wn have a young team, so everything is still coming together so far this  
woather that plagw~d  its races  a  little  bit of  last fall, so the result  slowed  down  Maureen Gibbons  as  well  as  spring."  
last wonk against Michigan Stale and produce strong l'in­ishos across tlw board.  them last weekend bocause there  was not good or bad. We have a young team,  the Irish at all, as the team has been train­ rowers Allison Marsh, Melissa Felker, Amanda Polk, Mary Quinn, Sarah Palandech, Katie  This young Irish squad is anchored by walk-ons who learned thn ropes at Notre  
The team was originally slat­~~d to tako on the No. 4 Miehigan Wolvorinns Saturday, but it was cancelled because of  were only three races due to the weath­er," Stone said  so everything is still coming together so far this spring."  ing harder than ever. "We did a lot of rowing on  Chenaweth, Jessica Guzik and Rachel Polinski. Things are still coming together for tho first varsity  Dame to become varsity lead­ers. Last year's NCAA varsity eight consisted of snv1111 walk­ons out of tho nino women  
a  froznn Wolverine lake. Irish  of the Michigan  the machines,  eight,  as  the group has only  rowers.  The  novieo  crews,  
coach  Martin  Stone  then  State  team.  Martin Stone  along  with  a  rowed together competitively  positions limited to freshmen  
sdwdulod a match-up bPlwoen Michigan State and Notre Damn.  "We are train­ing very hard this weok to  Irish coach  great deal of weight lifting, in addition to  five times, but Coach Stone is confident in its performance. The fall of 2004 marked the  only, are made up almost com­pletely of these non-seholar­ship athletes.  
Thn Irish faend the Spartans Marel1 12, but tlw regatta was cancelled shortly after the  prepare for them." The races this weekend will be slightly different than usual.  running and some yoga," Sto'ne said of the off-season. "I think physically we're pretty strong  beginning of the Irish's quest to return to the elite NCAA Championships, as well as a  Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu  

Wednesday, March 16, 2005

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING & DIVING 
Perry-Eaton registers NCAA-vvorthy score 
that round with a mark of
Diver joins Carroll 

302.50 in the finals for a 12­and Bouvron in top dive score of 588.65. Her final mark put her
swimming meet behind only Indian's Christina Lakos and Purdue's Carrie McCam­
By MIKE TENNANT bridge. This event marked 
Sports Writer only the second time Perry­Eaton has been beaten in 11 competitions in 2004-'05.
It really seemed more of a 

Lakos and McCambridgeformality than anything as 
are the only two swimmers
senior diver Meghan Perry­to best the Irish diver this

Eaton qualified for the 
season.
NCAA Championships Saturday also was the

Saturday in West Lafayette, third consecutive time thatInd. 

Perry-Eaton finished in the
The All-American finished 

top three off the one-meter
third off the one-meter 

board at the Zone C meet,springboard in the Zone C 
taking third in 2003 and
Diving Championships, earn­wining the competition last

ing her a berth in the 
year.
national meet for the third 

Named the Big East's Most
consecutive time in her 

Outstanding Diver each ofcareer. She will join swim­
the last three years, Perry­mers Christel Bouvron and 
Eaton is only the secondKatie Carroll as the only 
diver in Notre Dame history
Irish representatives in the 

to qualify for the NCAA
NCAA Championships. 

Championships, following in
Perry-Eaton took third the footsteps of Heather

place last year in the NCAAs Mattingly (2002).

off the one-meter board, fin­

This year will be theishing a mere 3.3 points eighth time in nine years
behind the champion. 

that the Irish have had three
The five-time conference 
more

champion started off the or qualifiers to the. 
championship meet.
Zone C Championships 

The NCAA Championshipsstrongly, posting the second­are scheduled for March 17­
highest preliminary score 

19, and will be held at thewith a 286.15 in the round. 
Boiler Maker Aquatic CenterHer fifth dive, a reverse 1.5 
in West Lafayette.
somersault with 1.5 twists, earned Perry-Eaton her highest score of the day with Contact Mike Tennant at a 54.60. She then followed mtennant@nd.eu 

RICHARD FRIEDMAN/The Observer All-American Meghan Perry-Eaton, shown here in a Dec. 2 meet, is ready to dive into the NCAA's. 

SMC GOLF 
Belles look to finish strong 
work. success, but it is not satisfied.
Golfers return home 
"Through hard work, great For the seniors, this is one last after successful trip coaching and dedication, you opportunity to make a final run can achieve anything," Dunham at the national championship.to Pinehurst course said. "We took a program that They remain focused both on 
had never won a conference that goal and on the present. 
tournament to the NCAA "We need to stay focused for 
By THOM,AS BARR National Tournament in a year." the entire 18 or 36 holes," 
Sports Writer The team is returning to the Simmerman said. "We have to 
course after a fall season remember that every shot 
The Belles are back in town marked by both counts, and after their spring break trip to team and indi-that if we do Pinehurst, N.C. vidual success. "Besides being have a bad 
The trip allowed the team to The roster of shot, on next
teammates, we're all
get its first swings of the new the No. 3 Belles hole to look 
season. It also allowed the play­boasts three very good friends and past that and ers to walk the course of the first-team aii­[we] support each other think of how to NCAA national championship. MIAA golfers in come back and
on and offthe course. ,,
The team is very optimistic as it Dunham, Julia finish strong." goes into the new season with a Adams and The team firm idea of where it is coming Stefanie Stefanie Summerman benefits from from and where it wants to go. Simmerman, as Belles golfer a multitude of 
Under the guidance of sec­well as two sec­veterans, ond-year coach Mark Hamilton ond team all-including sen­
and with returning roster of full MIAA golfers in Nicole Bellino iors Simmerman, Dunham, and of talent and experience, the and Megan Mattia. Adams, who have been on the Belles look to continue on the "Our success in the past has varsity squad all four years. path they laid in the faiL given us confidence in our abili­The wealth of upperclassmen 
"We all worked hard and ty to be successful as a team, will benefit the team with not played well in the fall, and [we] but we also realize that we only experience but also per­see the spring as a continuation need to keep working on our spective. of that, as well games in order The Belles hope to leave their as an opportuni­to keep reaching mark individually and collec­
"We all worked hard 
ty to really push the goals that tively on the course, as well as ourselves and and played well in the we have set for to leave a legacy for their com­prove we belong fall, and [we] see the ourselves," said munity. 
among the elite Julia Adams.. "We've watched the team
spring as a
in women's The team come from a mediocre squad to Division III continuation of that.,, forged its char­one that is ranked third in the golf," captain acter from both nation," Simmerman said. Chrissy Dunham Chrissy Dunham the climb in the "We've helped build up a great said.? national rank­reputation for SMC Golf, and I
Belles captain
Hamilton has ings and a solid hope that we're passing that helped SMC golf core of return­dedication on to our under­to rise from relative mediocrity ing players from year to year. classwomen." to near the top of Division III "Besides being teammates, The path to Pinehurst starts 
women's golf. The team finished we're all very good friends and with a tournament April 1 and 
eighth in NCAA in the fall and support each other on and off 2 in Columbus, Ohio. fourth last spring. The team is the course," Simmerman said. grateful for the improvement The team is pleased with its Contact Thomas Barr at 
and has not forgotten its hard growing recognition and its past tbarr@nd.edu 
;t·····························································•*****t
: 

t t
! 1-NOTT HALL PRESENTs ....... ! 
t :
* 

t Tihl~ .Jl\!J~lfDGiil i&Srl\!JMib@l\!Jgjihl i 
I Jon 3Memorial Basketball Tournament i 
tt:

i* When: Sunday, March 20th ; Where: Stepan Center * 
* Cost: -$20/team t:
t *
* -max 4 people/team t J* FREET-SHIRTS!!!... for first 35 teams * 
i i
i SIGN UP TODAY! t
i ~
LaFortune: 2-4 ; North and South Dining Halls: 5-6:30 * 
* t:
t Or email your team name and roster to i ; dchishol@nd.edu by Friday @ 5 pm * 
if i :
Men's AND Women's Divisions 
* t:
t t
* *TONS OF PRIZES!!!!* * ! • Winners i 
t t
* • Best Team Name * ! • Best Uniforms f 
t i
J **ALL Proceeds go to HABITAT FOR HUMANITY** : 
t t 
* *
i i 
·ft it 
***'***''************'****''***********************'*****'''********* 
---------------~
.---------------------------------------------------------------­
Wcdnc~Jay, March 16, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 ~-------~--======================================================================
.. 

ND SOFTBALL 
Team turns around over break 
vil:torios, boosting its season attitude, good all around
Irish win four to take 
average 3(J points to a fielding -esplH:ially in tlw rnspeetabln .26S. Thn team inrinld -and an explosion or
Hawaii Invitational 
put up 25 runs in four ganws . hilling. 
Double-header offers  repeat as MIAA champions, but tlw road ahead appnars quite 
chance for team to  ehalllHlging. The Belles are  
returning only five players from  
regroup, zmprove  last year's championship tl~am,  
and t.ho entire squad will have  
By TOM STILES  to make the transition under first-ynar eoach Kristi Boeehy. 
Spom Wri[cr  The Bellns lack a single sen­ 
ior on tlw roster, which means  
Thn Bnllns will look to get  the five returning players will  
back to their winning ways  bn oxpectnd to step up as lead­ 
with a doubln-hoader this  ers, especially when it comes to  
aftornoon against Goshen  setting an example for thn live  
Collegn. Tlw BPiles rnturn from  freshmen. The sclwdule proves  
thoir spring training trip in Ft.  to be challenging as Tri-State  
Myers, Fla., with a 5-4 rncord,  University oflicially joined the  
but they linishml strong by win­ MIAA this year. Even so, the  
ning four of their last five  Belles will certainly be up to  
garnos.  tho task of defending their  
Artnr dropping thrnn of four  Tournament title.  
to begin tlw trip, the hats came  After taking on Goshen  
alive as the Belles oulseornd  College tomorrow, the Belles  
their opponnnts 25-7 during  will play two games before  
thnir four-game winning strnak.  competing iii the Trinity  
Unfortunat11ly, the streak was  Invitational Tournament on  
broken in tho final ganw of the  April 2. The Belles will then go  
trip as the Bolles su1Tf1red a  on to play fellow MIAA oppo­ 
defnat at the hands of Mndaille  nents in f~ight of their next ten  
Collnge.  games. If the Belles worked out  
Freshman pitcher McKenna  all of the kinks on the spring  
Corrigan was touched up for  trip, a quick start out of the  
fivn runs in four innings of  gate will undoubtedly send the  
work, but Bridgnt Grall held  message to the rest of the con­ 
Mndaille scornless in the last  ference that this year's team  
two innings. Grall and Laura  presents just as much of a chal­ 
lldine had two hits each for an  lenge as last year's group.  
o11i111Se that was held scoreless  
on livn hils.  Contact Tom Stiles at  
The Bolles are looking to  tstiles@nd.edu  

with power hitting at the tournament, nearly The Irish are back in South doubling their snason output Bend for tlw w1wk preparing of 27 in the previous 14 for a four-team tournament By THOMAS BARR games. this weekend at Ohio State. Spons Writer Going into spring break, There is a clear ehangn in the Irish seemed uncertain attitude amongst. thn players, 
Maybe it wasn't exactly a where their season was and they feel the momm1tum cruise or a week in a sunny !waded. The team had been has shil'tnd. tropical paradise, but far inconsistent, losing to low­"We are fneling great and from the frozen tundra of ranknd opponents while hoping to continue this roll South Bend, spring has defeating more highly-touted we are on". said catcher sprung, and the Irish bats foes such as No. 5 Mallorie Lenn. "We played have thawed. Tennessee. together as a team and fed 
The team heated up while The team's batting average ofl' one anotlwr. That is what in the tropics for the llawaii was an unimpressive .232 -will keep us going." Invitational nearly 40 points Notre Dame 1, Wednesday off last year's UC Santa Barbara 0 through Friday "We knew what we mark, and the The Irish lert California on last week. The team's winning a positive note before they
had to do to win. 
team went 4-0 percentage was headed to Hawaii. Heather
We knew ifwe
before the tour­hovering just Booth shut out California­nament was played our game, below .500. Santa Barbara 1-0 March 7 called Saturday Going into a and chalked her fifth win of
we could beat any
due to inclement thr.ee-game the season with a little help
team."

weather. The west coast road from the base-running hero~ Irish were trip followed ics of Kellie Middleton, who deelared tourna­Steffany Steinglem immr.diately by recorded two stolen bases ment champi­Irish pitcher the Hawaii and the game winning run. ons, netting Invitational, the Notre Dame 1-1 against them their sec-Irish realized Loyola Marymount ond tournament champi­they had an important The defeat of UCSB came onship this season. opportunity to get their sea­on the heels of a double 
"We knew what we had to son back on the right track. header the Irish played do to win," pitcher Steffany Sophomore catcher Gessica against Loyola Marymount Steinglem said. "We knew if II ufnagle credits captain March 6. The Irish were able we played our game, we Megan Ciolli, who implored to eke out a 2-1 victory on could beat any team." the team to "come ready to the arm of Booth in the first 
While in Hawaii, Notre play and play no matter game -avenging a 7-0 Dame beat Campbell 6-1, what," with motivating the defeat from narlier in the Hawaii 9-1, Virginia 3-1 and team. season. In the second game, Nevada 7-1. In the first two When asked about the the Lions ol'l'nnso roarcd games, the Irish outhit their cause of the turnaround, the back to life, shutting out the opponents a combined 25 answers among players were Irish 5-0. hits to five. very positive. Steinglem 
Notre Dame would end up credited the recent success Contact Thomas Barr at with 45 total hits in its four to a combination of positive tbarr@nd.edu 
UNIVERSITY 01' NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT 01' MUSIC PRESENTS 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles prepare for tvvo games against Goshen 



page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 15, 2005 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish stay busy, notch victories over break 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Sports Writer 
Spring break is usually a time to catch some sunshine and much-needed rest and relax­ation. The Irish men's tennis team found both of the latter rare during the past ten days. But they did catch plenty of sun in several contested outdoor matches. 
Transitioning to outdoor play for the first time this spring, No. 18 Notre Dame (13-4) competed in four dual-matches and sent four doubles teams to compete in the prestigious Pacific Coast Doubles Championships. The Irish won three matches against St. Joseph's (3-5), No. 68 William and Mary (4-10) and No. 27 Rice (9-4). Their only loss came to No. 55 Boise State (15-5) in the BluB-Gray National Tennis Classic. 

In their first outdoor match of the season, Notre Dame easily rolled past St. Joseph's in a 7-0 decision. The· two doubles points were closely contested, but the Irish had no problems in singles play. In a match that heavily favored the Irish, the team collectively dropped just 20 total games in the vietory. 

The rest of the team's match­es during break were not quite as easy. Competing in the Blue­Gray National Tennis Classic, Notre Dame won their first round match against William and Mary in a close 4-3 deci­sion. 
Placed as the second overall seed for the event, the Irish came out strong against William and Mary on March 10. Winning both doubles matches and getting victories in the first two singles contests, the Irish jumped out to an early 3-0 lead. But William and Mary won three straight three-set victories to close the gap. Sophomore Barry King beat Colin O'Brien 3-6. ()-1, 6-1 in the linal match on court to seal thn victory for Notre Dame. 
Unfortunately, the Irish came up just short the following day against Boise State, dropping a 4-3 decision. The match lasted more than four hours and fea­tured five three-set singles matches. Winds of greater than 20 miles per hour added prob­lems for both teams in the marathon match. 
Although the Irish fell behind 3-1 early, King keyed a come­back by posting a 7-6, 2-6, 6-1 victory over Matias Silva at the No. 3 slot. Victories from Stephen Bass and junior Eric Langenkamp helped notch the score at 3-3 before the decisive last singles match. 
Boise State Senior Ikaika .lobe topped Irish freshman Sheeva Parbh u with a 3-6, 7-6, 6-3 vic­tory that gave the Broncos the win. 
The down-to-the-wire drama didn't stop there for the Irish. Saturday, Notre Dame's match against Hice again came down to a hotly contested 4-3 vietory. This time, the Irish dinched the all-important fourth point. 
Again playing the final match on court, King clinched the match for the Irish with a 6-3, 6-7, 6-1 vietory over Hice's Ben llarknett. The Irish fell behind 2-0 to the Owls early, but a 6-1, 6-3 victory by Parbhu keyed the Irish comeback. 
Among a talented pool of competitors, Notre Dame also played well at the Paeilk Coast Doubles Championships, advancing three of tiHlir four duos to thn round of 32 in the 128-tnam draw. 
The doubles team of Langenkamp and Parbhu advanced to the final 16 before losing to Pepperdine's No. 1 team. Bass and King beat the Texas A&M team of Matt Bain and Yevgeny Supeko 4-6, 6-4, 7­5 in their opening round match and then upset UCLA's No. 3 team of Chris Lam and Philipp Gruendler 6-3, 4-6, 1-0 ( 1 0-6). The duo's run was ended in the round of 32 by Rice's No. 2 team, Konstantin Haerle and 

BETH WERNETffhe .Observer 
Barry King returns a serve in a match against Marquette on Feb. 13. 

Filip Zivojinovic, in an X-4 deci­sion. 
Senior captain Brent D'Amico and sophomore Hyan Keeklcy bnat Man~o Amorieo and Jared Kobren 6-1, 6-2 before losing 8­6 to Fresno State's No. 1 tnam, Jakub Ceeh and Sergui Modoc in the round of 32. 
The Irish next take to the courts against No. 3 Illinois Thursday. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

Kegel111an beco111es first ND svvi111111er to 111ake NCAA's 
of collegiate swimming in its terfly. ming corps in the Big East crack the national ranking
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 4 7 -year history. "The best thing is that not Championships. Seven other polls, beat a nationally-ranked Sports Wrirer 
"As far as the program goes, only does it mean the doors are Irish swimmers also qualified opponent and also win the Big 
it means that now all doors are open, it happened for the pro­NCAA B cuts for consideration East Championships -all firsts 
The rise of a program to elite open," Irish coach Tim Welsh gram in the best of all possible to take part in the NCAA in program history. As the sea­company occurs in small steps. said. "The path to the very top ways -Tim has made his last Championships. son draws to a close, the Irish It has been a continual effort of collegiate swimming is open, step of improvement while he While Kegelman is the sole are looking for a little more for the Notre Dame men's and Tim is going to be the first was at Notre Dame," Welsh Irish representative for the sea­from one of their leaders. swimming and diving team, but person to walk through the said. "While being a part of this son's final collegiate meet, "We're going to focus on the after years of 
door. That's huge and we want­program, he's improved to the Welsh sees the team's perform­simplest and the hardest of all hard work ed that to happen for a long point where he can qualify for anc-e as a sign of things to things -getting faster," Welsh the program time." the NCAA Championships." come. said. "The qualifying time is the can add one Kegelman garnered the invite Kegelman will swim the 100-''I'm not disappointed at all," fastest time ever in the 100­more impor­due to his season-best time in yard butterfly event on March Welsh said. "The reason I say yard butterfly. So even at 28 tant mile­the 100-yard butterfly (47.66 25 in Minneapolis, Minn., the that is because all of those B guys deep, this is the fastest stone to this seconds), which came in the site of the NCAA cuts are lifetime-best achieve­field ever assembled in the season's preliminaries of the Notre Championships. Having also ments. In our sport, anytime 100-yard butterfly for the accomplish­. Dame Invitational in December. registered NCAA B cuts in the you're talking about a lifetime­men's NCAA Championships. ments. That performance broke the 200-yard individual medley and best performance, that's good His next step is to say, 'Can you 
Sophomore Kegelman meet, pool and University 200-yard butterfly this season, news. What we have seen is go to the biggest meet in col­Tim Kegel-records in the 100-yard butter­Kegelman qualified to swim step-by-step, stroke-by-stroke, lege and go faster at that man earned an invitation to the fly. His time was .03 seconds those events as well. He will second-by-second. We're get­point?' That's what we're NCAA Championships last faster than Pat Cary of UC swim those events on March 24 ting closer. There will be a focusing on." Friday afternoon. This marks Santa Barbara (47.69), the final and March 26, respectively. point at which we have a gang the first time Notre Dame will qualifier in the 28-man field Kegelman headlined a strong going." Contact Rama Gottumukkala at send a swimmer to the pinnacle competing in the 100-yard but-performance by the Irish swim-This season has seen the Irish rgottumu@nd.edu 

IT'S EASY...ALL YOU HAVE TO DO IS ATTEND 3 NOTRE DAME MEN'S LACROSSE HOME GAMES TO ENTER TO WIN! 
Allgames willhe heldat Moose Krause Stadium (Due to inclement weathergame~ wil~ be mo'lJ~d to Loftus Sports Center) 
• Visit www.notredamepromotions.com for all the latest promot1onal mformat1on 9,1lliU~'~'"I<.dlu>tJT,.~..J 
• Pair of round airline tickets is good on in the Continental United States certain restrictions will able 
t_ 

OUNDTHE NATION 
Wednesday, March 16, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE QgsERVERS WIRE SERVICES page 23 
NBA 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic 

~~~am l'lleord perc. last I 0 GB Boston 35-29 .574 8·2 0.0 Philadelphia 30-33 .476 4·6 4.5 New Jersey 28-36 .438 5·5 7.0 Toronto 27-36 .429 6·4 7.5 New York 26·35 .426 6·4 7.5 
Eastern Conference, Central 

tPam rN'OI'd p!\rr.. last 10 (JB Detroit 39·23 .629 6·4 0.0 Cleveland 33-27 .550 3-7 5.0 Chicago 32·28 .533 5·5 6.0 Indiana 31·31 .500 5·5 8.0 Milwaukee 25-37 .403 3·7 14.0 
Eastern Conference, Southeast 
tl'am rPcord p!!r<'. last 10 GB Miami 49·16 .754 9·1 0.0 Washington 34·27 .557 4-6 13.0 Orlando 31·31 .500 3·7 16.5 Charlotte 12·49 .197 1·9 35.0 Atlanta 11·52 .175 1·9 37.0 
Western Conference, Northwest 
tPam n•eonl pnre. last 10 GB Seattle 42·19 .689 6·4 0.0 Denver 32-30 .516 8·2 10.5 Minnesota 32-32 .500 5·5 11.5 Portland 23-38 .377 2·8 19.0 Utah 20·42 .323 3·7 22.5 
Western Conference, Pacific 

l.fmm rncord pore. last 10 GB Phoenix 48·15 .762 7·3 0.0 Sacramento 39·25 .609 5·5 9.5 L.A. Lakers 32·30 .516 4·6 15.5 L.A. Clippers 28·35 .444 5·5 20.0 Golden State 20·44 .313 4·6 28.5 
Western Conference, Southwest tnam rnrord pllrl'. last I 0 (;B San Antonio 48-15 .762 7-3 0.0 Dallas 41·21 .661 5·5 6.5 Houston 38-25 .603 6-4 10.0 Memphis 36·27 .571 6·4 12.0 New Orleans 14-48 .226 3-7 33.5 
College Softball Big East Conference 

toam conf. OV(ll'ltll 
Providence 0·0·0 10·4·0 Syracuse 0·0·0 9·4·0 VIllanova 0·0·0 17·9·0 NOTRE DAME 0·0·0 11·7·0 St. John's 0·0·0 10·11·0 Seton Hall 0·0·0 4·5·0 Boston College 0·0·0 9·12·0 Pittsburgh 0·0·0 7·13·0 Connecticut 0·0·0 3·9·0 Rutgers 0·0·0 0·11·0 
College Baseball Big East Conference 

team  ennf'.  overall  
Connecticut  0·0·0  9·3·0  
Boston College  0·0·0  8·5·0  
Georgetown  0·0·0  9·6·0  
Villanova  0·0·0  6·4·1  
Pittsburgh  0·0·0  7-5·0  
Rutgers  0·0·0  6·5·0  
NOTRE DAME  0·0·0  6·7·0  
St. John's  0·0·0  6·7·0  
West Virginia  0·0·0  4·9·0  
Seton Hall  0·0·0  3·6·0  

around the dial 
NBA 

Timberwolves at Spurs, 9 p.m, ESPN 
TENNIS 2005 Pacific Life Open, 5 p.m, ESPN2 
MLB 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -.Jason Giambi was excusP.d from tnstifying at Thursday's eongrnssional hearing on st.nroids in baseball, and tho top l>nm<HT<tt on the comrnittne said it's possi­hln other players also could have subpoenas withdrawn. 
(;iambi dons not have to go to Washington because of his involvement in the ongoing federal investiga­tion into illegal steroid dis­tribution, llouse Govern­ment Reform committee chairman Hep. Tom Davis and ranking Democrat Hnp. llnnry Waxman said Tuesday. The New York Yankees slugger testified 
in 2003 bnl'orn a grand jury probing tlw Bay Area 
Laboratory Co-Opnrative. 
"I appPanHI in front of tho fndnral grand jury a ynar ago. I answnrcd nvnry question, told thn truth and eoopnratnd fully," Giambi said in a statnmnnt released by his agent. "I appreeial.n that the mem­bers of the committee evaluated my situation. and I will now continue to focus on playing the best baseball I possibly can for the Yankees and our grnat fans." 
BAI.CO founder Victor Conte, BALCO vice presi­dent James Valente, Barry Bonds' trainer Greg An­derson, and track coach Hemi Korchemny were 

indicted in the case, and trial dates have not ynt bonn sdwdulnd. 
In a letter snnt to tho committnc accompanying more than 400 pages of documents Monday, base­ball lawyer Stan Brand said just 12 of 1.1 :n tests last ynar were positivn, and that positive tests from nandrolonn droppnd from 73 in 200:~ to one last year. 
Davis and Waxman wait­ed until Tuesday evening to make the announce­ment on Giambi. 
"From the outset, wn have said that we in no way wantnd our inquiry to impede or complicatt~ any ongoing investigations by law enforcement," they 
said in a joint sl.atfHllent. "Upon !waring today from the Justice I>Ppartnwnt that Mr. (;iambi's appnar· anen could do just that, Wf' havn dnridPd to exrusf' him from tl'stifying. All otlw r in vi ted w i l.lwsses, however, will lw nxpnrted to comply with the suhp!H~­nas issund to tlwm last wnnk." 
Lawyers for (;iamhi, l'almeiro and Thomas snnt the eornmitl.nn lnttnrs Monday asking that thnir clinnts be nxcused, citing (iiambi's prior tnslimony and thn advnrsn el'l'eds travnl would havn on Thomas' recovery from an ankh\ injury. 
"It's still a dynamic process," Waxman said. 
IN BRIEF Sorlie leads the lditarod 
close to the finish 
NALAKLEET, Ala. -The church bnll rang and the whole village came out to welcome Hobert Sorlie on Tuesday when he arrived at the White Mountain checkpoint, just 77 miles from the finish line or tho Iditarod Trail Sled Dog. 
The 4 7 -year-old Norwegian, who held the same commanding lead when he won the 2003 race, was the lirst musher to reach the yillage of' White Mountain, an Eskimo village of 
200. Sorlie arrived a minute before 1 
p.m. with eight dogs and will be abln to leave !'or the final homestretch of the 1,1 00-mile raee aftnr fullilling a mandatory R-hour layover. 
Kathy Chapotone, wife of four-time Iditarod winner Martin Buser, watched the small town celebrate Sorlie's arrival. 
"lin was tired, but his dogs looked strong," she said. "They had to go through 2-foot snowdrifts. It was a lot of work." 
After White Mountain, there's just one more checkpoint, Safety, and then it's 22 miles to Nome. 
The dosest contenders have up to three more dogs than Sorlie, who dropped another in Elim. He also won with eight dogs in 2003. 
The winner of' the 33rd running of' the lditarod will receive $72,066.67 and a pickup truck. The total purse this ynar is $750,107. 
Tigers release Sanchez after 
2 years 

DETHOIT -Alex Sanchez was relnased Tuesday by the Detroit Tigers, five days after the center fielder was reunited with his mother for thn first time in 11 years. 
Sanchez has frustrated Detroit with his sloppy play in the field in the past, and did again during spring training. 
"We'vn had ·a chance to watch him this spring and his def'ensP was just not up to the lnvnl we like," Tigers president and general manager Dave Dombrowski said at spring training in Lakeland, Fla. 
Detroit hopes nither Craig Monroe or Nook Logan will emergn as its top centnr lielder. Tigers manager Alan Trammell said I>ewayne Wisn and Alexis Gomez were also candidatf~s to win the job.
Serena Williams skips
Indian Wells tournament 
MIAMI -Four years latnr,· Sen~na Williams says the nwmory of lwing jeered at Indian Wells, Calif'., remains vivid, which is why she's skipping tlw tournamnnt this week. 
Instead she's homo in Palm Beach Gardens. working on lwr fashion business and pn~paring to snek her fourth ronsm~utivn Kny Bisraynn titl1~ at thn Nasdaq-1 00 Open. whieh bngins March 23. 
Sen~na and lwr sister VPnus last playnd at Indian Wells in 200 I. They worn supposl'd to nwnt narh otlwr in the semifinal that ynar, but Vl'nus puiiPd out with knPn tendinitis, prompting sporulation shn ducked tho match. 

page 24 Wednesday, March 16, 2005
The Observer + SPORTS 


What are you doing next summer? 
~A 
­
The London Summer 
Notre Dame's largest summer abroad program 
May 17-June 18,2006 
~Study in London ~Travel in Europe ../Earn 6 credit hours toward ~Have 2 months of summer yourGPA left when you return ! 
Information Session for 2006 Programme: 
Wednesday, March 16 
Line01en 
continued from page 28 
undergo surgery, but it was unlikely that team physicians would clear him to play any­way. 
Ryan was heading into his senior season and would likely have been the top reserve offensive lineman on the depth chart. The 6-foot-5 senior from Tamaqua, Pa. has had a pro­ductive but injury-filled career at Notre Dame. 

As a sophomore, Ryan started three games, logging over 120 minutes of playing time. 
However, knee injuries in 2004 mostly kept him off the field for all but 10 minutes, 24 seconds. 
The back condition -a degenerative disk problem ­will allow Ryan to pursue other interests in football. 
He has said that he would like to stay involved in some way with the Irish and eventu­ally go into coaching. 
Giles' case is much different. 

The senior had only started one game in his career for the Irish, and the South Bend Tribune reported his departure is rooted in Giles' desire to play, according to his former high school football coach Lou Silva. 
"I haven't talked to Zach, but according to some of his good friends it's a done deal. "He just wants to play football," Silva told the South Bend Tribune. 
The center played in place of the injured Bob Morton at times in 2003, including the entire second half of the Boston College game and the fourth quarter against Florida State. 
Giles will join a Northeastern team that finished 5-6 overall and 4-4 in the Atlantic 10 con­ference. 

Giles is a native of Marshfield, Mass., 30 minutes away from the Northeastern campus. 
Aside from the loss of Ryan and Giles, Notre Dame retains all five of its starting linemen this year -including tackle Hyan Harris, who won the team award for top offensive lineman as a sophomore in 2004. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Owens 
continued from page 28 
son ends. 
This is a dream come true," said Owens. "I remember when I was a sophomore, and I told !then-head coach] Jane [Albright! that once I graduat­ed, I would come back as her assistant in two or three years. This is even better. I can't explain how excited I am to be part of the Huskie family again." 
The 37-year-old Owens helped guide Notre Dame to a 251-74 rceord during her tenure, including 10 consecu­tive NCAA Tournament appearanees and the only national championship in 2001. She is also credited with aiding the development of for­ward Ruth Riley, arguably the greatest player in Irish histo­ry. 
"Carol Owens is one of the top assistant eoaches in the nation, and in my opinion, she is the best skills eoach in the country when it comes to the post position," Riley said on Notre Dame's athletic Web site. "As a young player, I was very grateful to find a school where I knew I would develop fundamentally at my position. Coach Owens has personal experience of being an All­Ameriean post player, and she uses that knowledge teach and mold young student-ath­letes. I am very grateful for the time she invested in mak­ing me the best post player I could be." 

Owens has also been an integral part of Notre Dame's outstanding recruiting classes. The Irish claimed eight straight top-20 ranked classes from 1996-2003. 
"Carol's one of the reasons we've gone to 10 straight NCAA Tournaments," MeGraw said. "She's turned our pro­gram around. I don't know what we'll do to replace her. We're so happy and sad at the same time. We're losing a friend, a big part of the Notre Dame family." 
Owens played for No•·thern Illinois from 1986-'90, where she set 13 school records, including being the all-time leader in scoring, shot blocks, free throws made, free throws attempted and field goal per­centage. She was also the first player to reach the 2,000 point/1 ,000 rebound plateau for either the men's or women's program at Northern Illinois. Owens was inducted into the Northern Illinois University Athletic Hall of Fame in 1995 and then into the Illinois Basketball Hall of Fame in 2001. 
''I've told her how fortunate I was as a young coach, not only to be able to coach a player of her caliber, but of her character," said Jane Albright, Owens' coach for the Huskies. "This is a person you'd want your daughter to play for." 
Owens graduated from Northern Illinois and played three seasons professionally in Japan, Spain and Italy. She will take over a Huskies team that went 7-20 this season, including a 2-11 home mark. Northern Illinois was 12-16 in both 2003-04 and 2002-03 and 17-13 in 2001-02. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

Senior forward Jacqueline Batteast goes up for a shot against Duke on Nov. 17. Batteast and her teammates have excelled under head assistant coach Carol Owens's guidance. 
• Drop into either session • 
11:30 am-LaFortune, Montgomery Theatre 
5:00 pm-131 DeBartolo Hall 
Applications for the 2005 and 2006 Programmes are being accepted. www.nd.edu/~sumlon 
Wednesday, March IG, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
Tennis 
continued from page 28 
(;antehnva 7-6, 6-1, No. 59 Buck li1llowed up with a quick win owr Zsiros 6-2. 6-7. 6-2 to put tho loam within a point of vietory. 
But UNLV's Cindy Trnber made l.hn match morn eornpeti­livo. recording a win over Stastny (J-3, 4-6, h-4 at No. 4 to put the score at :l-2. 
l.auron Conrwlly's 6-4, 4-6, 7­5 win ovnr Smith soeured the win lhr the Irish at No. 5 after thn scorn was lind at 3-3. 
At No. :J, Christian Thomp­son addnd to the tnam's success with the final win, edging out Ortiz-Luis 6-2, 4-6, 6-4. No. 24 Brigham Young 6, Notre Dame 1 
The Irish did not fare <L'i well against No. 24 BYU 110-10) on March 12. 
Tho tnam felt the void of Chrislian Thompson, who played her doubles match but was sidelined because of a kmw injury for singlns. Notre Damn rngistered victories at No. 1 singles and No. 1 doubles, but wnre unable to secure the win. 
"Pulling (Christian( out of sin­gles really hurt us," Louderback said. "Any time you're missing one of your top players, it am~cts the team." 
Prior to her injury, No. 2 Christian and sister Catrina Thompson eollected the lone victory in doublns for the Irish at No. 1 doublns over No. 56 I..aurnn Jones and Dolly Chang H-0. The remaining doubles tnams wnro not as successful, with Buck and Launm Connelly falling 8-5 to Anasta'iia Surkova and Jenny Miecoli at No. 2 and Sarah Jane Connelly and Stastny dropping their match 8­5 for a loss against Olga Boulytcheva and Sofia Holden. This is only the second time this season that the Irish have lost the doubles point, a testamfmt to the hard work they have put in, Louderbaek said. 

"I've been real proud of our doubles this season," Loud­erbaek said. "They're all tough competitors. I think this was one of our worst matehes this season, but I guess we were due for a bad one. We've been playing so well the rest of the year." 
In singles, Catrina Thompson bested Jones 6-2, 6-2 to regis­ter the lone point lor the Irish. Lauron Connelly was the only other Irish player to win a set in singles. Although she bounced baek from a loss in her first set tiebreaker versus Holden, she was unable to secure the win and fell 7-6, 2-6, 6-2 at No.4. 
Chang defeated junior Liz Donohue 7-6, 7-6 at No. 6. Suffering an upset. Buck lost to Boulytcheva 6-3, 6-4 at No. 2. Stastny, filling in for the injured Christian Thompson, played at No. 3, but dropped her match 6-0, 6-2 to Surkova at No. 3. Finally Miecoli defeated Sarah Jane Connelly 6-1,6-1 at No.5. 
The Irish will return to the courts on Friday versus Tennessee. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
Recruits 
continued from page 28 
reeruiting for next year is very well underway," he said. 
Weis belinves the success of any college football program lwgins with its ability to recruit. On Feb. 27, he demonstrated the concnrn to improve that essential niTort at Notre Dame. 
Weis and his nnw staff had HO junior recruits visit the campus that Sunday, coordinating meetings between players, parents and the entire coaching staJT and later dividing players up bntwnon spndlic position coaches. 
The players attended a Notre Dame-UCLA baskntball gamn at the Joyce Center, a storied series between two basketball programs that would bring an advantageous atmosphere and experience to tim recruits' visits. 
"I think that every time someone steps foot on campus, an impres­sion is being made," Weis said. "Notre Dame shouldn't be about weather, it should be about the place." 
Weis pointed to past recruit com­plaints about the characteristically overcast weather of South Bend as unfortunate but existing reasons ­among others -for why players have not chosen Notre Dame. Weis said he thinks the recruits should receive a more thorough experi­ence of the school and program before making surface decisions, exhibiting a developing understand­ing of the college reeruiting process new to the first-time head coach. 
"I have a passion for recruiting, as much as I like to eoach," Weis said. "Now, that confuses some peo­ple [who askl 'How can somnbody who's been in the NFL for the last 15 years and luL'>n't had to meruit be a guy that has a passion for mcruiting'!' 
"It's because I look at recruiting like a game with wins and losses and setbacks and small stPps." 
Wnis has bnnn on four Super Bowl-winning stalls ovnr his NFL camer, and though lw is not used to losing the big game, he under­stands the feeling and has applied his disdain l'or that nxpnrinnee to rncruiting. 
"Wiwn you go after a guy and you don't got him, sometimes it's a setbw~k. and sometimes it fools like you just got punched in the mouth," he said. 
Weis' competitive approach to n~cruiting is a testament to his rool'i in the NFL with head machos Bill l'arcnlls and Bill Belkhiek, a place Weis knows is the destination of many of the talented players he seeks. 
"TIH~se kids all think they are going to play in thn NFL," he said. "Everyone who goes to a Division-! school thinks that's where they're going to end up. So all of a sudden, that's what winning is all about right thnre." 
So, along witl1 attractive weekend visits and meetings with assistant eoaches. Wnis ha'i the perfect mar­keting tool. 
"I don't wear it because it lits so well on my fmger," Weis said, reluc­tantly rnmoving a Super Bowl ring from his finger. 
"It's because it makes an impres­sion. You can make an impression verbally. Well, you can also make an impression non-verbally -it's tough not to notice." 
Weis plans to make recruiting efforts and -eventually, recruiting success-just a'i difficult to iJ.,rnore. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Law& • • • 
An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series 
March 16, 2005 4:00p.m. Law School Courtroom 
Tocqueville as Critical Race Theorist 
Presenter Alvin Tillery 
Department ofPolitical Science 
Commentator 
Jay Tidmarsh 
The Law School 

Wednesday, March 16, 2005 

page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS 
MUSICAL CHAIRS ... 
SPOT 

TO BE PART OF THE ACTION 
AVAILABLE POSITIONS: 
• 
Vice-Chair ofMarketing • Director of Volunteers 

• 
Vice-Chair of Finance • Director ofHospitality 

• 
Press Writer • Director of Production 

• 
Treasurer • Director of Fundraising 

• 
Graphic Designers • SMC and HC Liaison 


Application Due Date: Friday, March 18 
Applications and info available at www.nd.edu/-theshow 
Questions? e-mail: theshow@nd.edu 
Turn in at the Student Activities Office (315 LaFortune) labeled "Attention: The Show" 

NIT 
continued from page 28 
of-10 on 3-pointers) and Russell Carter (seven points) hit consecutive three-point field goals to cut the deficit to seven. 
Teams traded baskets for the next six minutes, and Holy Cross led 60-55 with 5:31 to go. But Chris Thomas-who had a team-high 21 points and nine assists -hit a pull-up jumper and then found Rick Cornett for a wide-open dunk to cut the score to 60-59. 
Then, the ghosts of Madison Square Garden appeared in purple jerseys. 
Crusaders center Nate Lufkin canned 1-of-2 foul shots. Hamilton scored a bucket and point guard Torey Thomas con­verted a fast break lay-up to make the score 65-59. Notre Dame would not recover. 
Holy Cross made 7 -of-8 free throws -including 5-of-6 from Hamilton -to hold on to the win and advance in the NIT. 
While the Irish struggled once again to make key defen­sive stops, they also were severely out-rebounded ­especially on the offensive glass. Holy Cross grabbed 20 offensive rebounds to Notre Dame's 11, leading to 18 sec­ond-chance points and 34 points for the Crusaders in the paint. 
In comparison, Notre Dame scored just 11 points in the lane. 
"I think that if everyone boxes their man out, we won't have a problem rebounding," forward Rick Cornett said. "I think that's where we strug­gled the last few games." 

In a 66-56 win over Rutgers on March 2, Notre Dame sur­rendered 19 offensive rebounds and grabbed only five. 
In the first half Tuesday night, Torin Francis (23 min­utes, seven points) made a free throw to open the scoring, but the lead changed often throughout the half. Though the Irish seemed they would go into the half with the lead and some momentum up 32-30, Holy Cross freshman point guard Pat Doherty stripped Thomas and fed Hamilton for a buzzer-beating lay-up to tie the score at the break. 
"That's a big momentum play right there," Brey said. "That's a deflating play right before the half." 
The Crusaders then opened the second half with an 18-5 run. Notes 
+In their final game in Notre Dame uniforms, seniors Chris Thomas and Jordan Cornette broke significant program records. 
Thomas' 3-point field goal with 27 seconds to go was his 302nd career shot made from behind the arc. The basket moved Thomas past former Irish sharpshooter Matt Carroll on the all-time list for most 3­point field goals made. 
Cornette registered his 201st block Tuesday, as well, passing LaPhonso Ellis as the all-time leading shot-blocker in Irish men's basketball history. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Team runs out of steam in NIT 
As the NCAA tournament start­ed, a disappointing Notre Dame basketball season came to an end Tuesday night. 
Appearing on ESPN2 while the play-in game aired on ESPN, the Irish simply got beat by an inspired Holy Cross team. 
A Holy Cross team jumping at the oppor­tunity to knock off the Irish even after the Crusaders saw their 16-game winning streak come to an end on their home court in the Patriot League title game Friday. 
A Holy Cross team grabbing 20 offensive rebounds, forcing 19 Notre Dame turnovers and scor­ing 34 points in the paint. 
A Holy Cross team meeting a Notre Dame team that needed to have its season come to an end. 
Relegated to a second consecu­tive NIT appearance, an under­achieving Irish squad had noth­ing left in the tank physically to get back to Madison Square Garden -the NIT's saving grace. 
"I don't know ifwe could have got to New York, quite frankly," Mike Brey said. "Let's be honest with where we are depth wise and physically. It would have been nice to stay alive for anoth­er week. 


'Tm just being very realistic about our basketball team." 
Having Chris Quinn on the bench in a white button-down shirt and black pants instead of in the backcourt alongside Chris Thomas hurt this team a lot. Brey's right -the Irish simply don't have the depth to replace what Quinn brings to this team. 
But it wasn't just physically where the Irish couldn't keep pace with the Patriot League runner-up in the first round of the NIT. 
Most importantly, it was men­tally. 
When reaching the preseason goals of a Final Four run and a 30-win season became less real­istic each time the Irish stepped on the court, expectations changed to simply earning an NCAA tournament bid. 
But then the late-season col­lapse even took that goal away, with a collapse capped off by a loss to Rutgers that effectively ended Notre Dame's season. 
And the criticism about a dis­appointing season peaked. 
"We always held ourselves to high expectations, but all the negativity and criticism put a hamper on our team," Thomas said. 
Not meeting those high expec­tations became physically appar­ent by the sparse Joyce Center crowd of 2,518 for Tuesday night's game. 
That sent a strong message ­one received by the Irish. 
"When people don't show up, that takes a lot out of you," Thomas said. 
That wasn't any more evident than after the game in the Notre Dame locker room. 
Usually the immediate voices of this Irish team, even after dis­appointing losses, Thomas and Jordan Cornette just sat on the stools in front of their lockers with towels pressed against their faces. 
Towels hiding the tears streaming down their cheeks. 
Thomas eventually removed the towel from his face and fought through tears at the start of his interview before eventually settling in. 
Cornette didn't move. 

Those two didn't want to have their careers in an Irish uniform end this way. Removing the tow­els meant facing the realism there were no more chances left. 
No more chances to practice. 

No more chances to atone for the mistakes made in previous games. 
No more chances to make a mark on the Notre Dame pro­gram. 
When practice started in October, no one would have said this was the way Notre Dame's season-one of the most antici­pated in years -would end. 
But it was a good thing it did. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

INTERESTED IN CONCERTS, EVENT PLANNING, OR MUSIC? CONSIDER APPLYING! 
Wedneday, March 16, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
DILBERT 
A50K, YOUR POINTY­
HAIRED 13055 WANTS 
YOU TO SET UP A CON­
FERENCE CALL WITH 
ALL THE DIVISION 
MANAGERS. 
_) 

PEANUTS 
AND ANOTf.IER THING .. IN OUR HOUSE WE DON'T ALLOW 0065 TO BEG AT THE TABLE! 
SCOTT ADAMS 
HEY, I KNOW. WHY 
DON'T YOU TRY TO 
GET AN APPOINT­
MENT WITH HIM 50 
YOU CAN ASK THAT 
QUESTION? 
) 
CHARLES SCHULZ 

11M NOT 6E661N6 .. I WAS JUST 51'fTIN6 HERE, AND HAPPENED TO BE FACING YOUR WAV.. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
BOINS 
I I I tJ 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~i~fl 

TANNIE WHE:N THE KITC-HEN
I I I 
HEL-P FEL-l-~EHINO,
www.,umb/e.com 
THE c..HEF WA?--­

GLUBIN j 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I I r [J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print ~ here: 

"( I I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's I Jumbles: JULEP PATIO BUSHEL TOUCHY Answer: How she felt when her cobbler recipe won the blue ribbon -JUST "PEACHY" 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 31 More miffed 60 In reserve 

Exemplar of 34 Talking birds 61 River Kwai grace locale, formerly 
36 60's muscle car 5 Bidder's site 62 Gem for some
37 What the Libras

9 Fancy duds lexicographer/ dairy expert did? 63 More together 
14 Stay near the shore, say 40 Ring master? 64 Hill inhabitants 
65 Auditioner's goal 
15 1963 film"--41 Family nickname Ia Douce" 
42 Adam of "The 16 Eyeball benders O.C." DOWN 
17 Pierce portrayer 43 Air ball, e.g. 1 Give and take on TV 
45 Math ordinal 2 Dylan Thomas's 18 c home
46 RR depot 19 Raggedy Ann 3 Build on
47 Sounded like aand friends 

chick 4 Weak brew 20 What a scary 
49 Oracle site 5 Tower designer Doris Day did 
6 Hair twist 

on the film set? 52 What the paranoid C.I.A. 7 Gallic girlfriend 
23 Cried a river publicist did? 
8 Prison exercise 24 Congressional 56 Diet guru Jenny area
committee subject 58 Temple 9 Beckett's no­University team, show
27 Slippery sort with "the" 10 Historical28 Nursery noise 
59 Snack with a periods 30 Lather lickable center 
11 Stern lecture 
12 www bookmark
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 13 N.B.A. slats: Abbr. 
21 Land south and west of the Pyrenees 
22 Post-op program 
25 Referred to 

26 Bedtime request 
28 See 29-Down 
29 With 28-Down, noted 20th­century American artist, informally 
31 Little rascal 


32 Kukla's puppet 39 Magician's 51 Ultimate goal pal secret exit 
53 Sluggin' Sammy 44 Repair, as film33 Scream and 54 Victor's cry
holler 46 Quakes 55 Fish dish 
48 Fired up freshener 56 Comedian Bill, 34 Breath 
49 C sharp equivalent 
for short 35 Understated 50 Comedic horn 57 Some strands in 38 Bankrolls honker a cell 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a ~inute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Ct:LEURITIES UORN ON THIS UAY: Caitlin Wachs, 16; Scan Biggc·rstaff, 22: Fabio. 46: Judd Hirsd1. 70 
Happy Uirthday: Stability will he your thing this year. You will surpass your goals because you will persevere. You will he courageous, caring and content because you do what's best for you as well as li1r others. Multitasking will he a breeze and standing your ground a must. Your numbers arcS, 17, 23, 24. 27, 33 
ARIES (Murch 21-April 19): Take charge and do something that will help benefit your career or financial situation. You can simplify your life if you arc organized and set up a budget. Additional responsibilities arc likely to occur.*** TAURUS (Apri120-Muy 20): Being secretive will be the key to getting things done. You can gather infonnation from lntcmet soun:cs that will help you make the right choices. A short trip for business purposes will pay off. *** GEMINI (Muy 21-.June 20): Don't push yourself too hard loday. Lowered vitality will take its toll. so do less and do it well. A change in plans can he expected. but don't let that upset you. Avoid disagreeable people. *** CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): Take a quiet approach to whatever you do, and you will prosper. There arc plenty of c·hanges in the offing--accept them. and you will benefit. Love is apparent. **** LEO (.July 23-Au~. 22): You have some great ideas, but if you try to enforce them in your personal life you can expect trouble. Focus on your work and what you can do to get ahead. The further ahead you get, the more you can change other areas of your life. ** VIRGO (Au~. 23-Sept. 22): Doors will open for you today if you take the initiative and visit people in the know who can help you. A change is apparent, and a new partnership will interest you. Don't wait --respond. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take care of some of the personal matters !hut have been upsetting you. You'll he surprised how much you can accomplish if you set your mind to it. Changes in the workforce will be to your benefit. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone may be trying to get your attention. Take heed of the advice being offered. You are up for some incredible changes. Let your creative intuition lead the way. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Pay a little extra attention to those you are 
.. 

working with or for today. You will have some worthwhile suggestions, hut if you are too pushy about doing things your way, you will meet with resistance. Don't make changes today. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jun. 19): You can make new friends. start new partnerships and take on new ventures, hut he careful what you promise along the way. Overdoing it in any capacity will come back to cause you grief. Business travel will bring good results. ***** AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feh. 18): You may be questioning a lot today about your personal life and where you see yourself heading. Ask questions if someone you know is confusing you. It's better to know where you stand. ** PISCES (Feh. 19-March 20): Today can he touch-and-go for you. Although there will be people on your side, you will have to deal with others who arc trying to take you for granted. Say no if you don't feel comfortable with what someone wants you to do. **** 
Birthday Buhy: You are unpredictable, especially when emotional matters arc an issue. You are precise and wcll-intimned, and you take pride in being at your very best at all times. You are energetic, poetic and romantic. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadl'ice.com for fim, eugenia/ast.com ji1r ctmjidt•ntial consultation 

-------------------------------------------------~-----------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City _____________ State _______ Zip___________ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, March 16, 2005 
page 28 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
1 Cross'ed out 
You're disappointed because
Crusaders eliminate 
we just didn't have a whole lot of energy." 
Irish from the NIT 
The loss came just two days 
after Notre Dame was passed By PAT LEONARD over for an NCAA tournament Sporrs Writer bid, making it the second 
straight year the Irish have not 
Deflated by its opening-round played in the big dance. loss in the Big East tournament Irish shooting guard Chris and nagged by injury, Notre Quinn did not dress due to a Dame saw its final bubble bruised clavicle, which Brey burst Tuesday night. said would have kept Quinn 
The Irish fell to visiting Holy out the remainder of the sea­
... 
Cross in the son had Notre Dame advanced. 
Joyce Center, See Also Forward Omari Israel dressed 
78-73, in the but also did not play due a 
first round of "Team runs out bone chip in an ankle. the National of steam" Holy Cross guard Kevin Invitation Hamilton led the Crusaders
page26

Tournament, with 26 points on 7-of-16 bowing out shooting, and Holy Cross took a two rounds earlier than they page from Rutgers' playbook in did last season· in a quarterfi­staving off a late Notre Dame nal defeat to Oregon. run. 
"We haven't had much in the The Crusaders led by 13 tank here the last three points with 12:28 remaining weeks," Irish coach Mike Brey before Colin Falls (18 points, 4­said. "I think that was evident physically today with us. see NITIpage 26 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 

ND WOMEN'S 8ASKEJBAU. 
Ovvens will return to aln1a n1ater 
By JOE HETTLER Senior StaffWritet 
After 10 years at Notre Dame, Carol Owens, women's basket­ball head coach Muffet 
McGraw's top assistant, is returning home. 
Owens, the associate head coach, accepted a job at her alma 


m a t e r , Owens Northern Illi­nois, Tuesday after serving on the Irish staff since 1995. She will assume duties with the Huskies when Notre Dame's sea-
see OWENS/page 25 


No. 22 Notre Dame bests UNLV, falls to BYU 
"It was really great knowing junior Kiki Stastny dropped a By ANN LOUGHERY 
that we could win a tough match hard-fought match against Sports Writer like that," Louderback said. "Our Gyorgyi Zsiros and Claire Smith kids played hard and really bat­8-4 to round out the doubles 
The Irish had their share of tri­tled. We won 5-2. but it felt like it matches. umphs and heartbreaks over could've easily been 4-3." With the doubles point secured spring break, claiming a victory The Irish jumped to an early 1-and the team's momentum in over the University of Nevada-Las 0 lead in the March 10 match large supply, Notre Dame looked Vegas, 5-2, but dropping their after claiming the doubles point." to carry that success over to sin­match against Brigham Young The nation's No. 2 duo of Catrina gles. University, 6-1. and Christian Thompson defeated And the Irish didn't disappoint. 
The No. 22 Irish (6-61 showed Elena Gantcheva and Sharon Sarah Jane Connelly was the just how much potential they pos­Marin 8-2 at No. 1 while fresh­first to walk o(J" the court with a sess, remaining poised under man Brook Buck and junior win at No. 6 over Tempelfelde 6­pressure in what coach Jay Lauren Connelly collected an 8-2 2, 6-1. Though No. 39 Catrina Louderback described as an win over Anne Claire Ortiz-Luis Thompson fell 7-6, 6-1 to No. 21 especially tight match against No. and Linda Tempelfelde at No. 2. 30 UNLV (5-2). Senior Sarah Jane Connelly and see TENNIS/page 25 
fOOTBALL 
... Weis m_akes recruiting his first m_ain focus 
Editor's note: This is the first of England Patriots, won Super Bowl a three-part series detailing the XXXIX and gave the offensive recruiting methods and policies coordinator-turned-head coach an under new head football coach opportunity to give full attention Charlie Weis. to the Irish football program. 
With that minimal time window, By PAT LEONARD 
however, Weis has hit hard on Sports Writer 
what he believes to be the fore­most concern of the team he is 
It has been just over three inheriting from Tyrone months since Notre Dame named Willingham. Charlie Weis its new head football "The bottom line for us is that coach. It has been only 38 days since Weis' former team, the New see RECRUITS/page 25 
Linemen to pursue options 
Jamie 
North-east­
Ryan sidelined with a 
Ryan and ern -a serious back condition; Z a c h Division 1­
G i l e s , AA schoolGiles opts to transfer however, in Massa­
will not be chusetts. a part of Hyan'sBy BOBBY GRIFFIN 
this pro­back injury
Associate Sports Editor 
cess. will effec­
The two Jaime Ryan tively end 

In order for the Irish offense offensive his football to be successful next year linemen will not suit up for the career. Blueandgold.com rep­under new head coach Charlie Irish next season, Ryan <Hted that doctors informed Weis, the continued develop­because of a serious back con­the Irish guard that he could ment of the young offensive dition and Giles because he line will be imperative. has elected to transfer to see LINEMEN/page 24 


MEN'S TENNIS 
MEN1SSWIMMING
en 
MLB BENGAL BOUTS 
NFL

SMC GOlf 
w

1--
Co) 
z The New York 

Sophomore Tim Keg-Yankees' Jason Giambi 
Team registers victo­
elman became the first
ries over St. Joseph's, The golfers set new Senior captain Jim 
The Redskins are

a: :3 

has been excused from 
Irish swimmer to earn
No. 68 William and goals for themselves Christoforetti is set to 
looking to sign Cleve­= c::c testifying at congres­
an invitation to the
Mary, and No. 27 Rice. 
after a successful trip at fight in his final bout. 
land defensive end sional hearing on 
NCAA Championships. 
the Pinehurst course. 
Courtney Brown. ;: steroids in baseball. page 23 
page 22 
page 22 

page 20 page 18 page 17 







