
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND contributes $173,000 to tsunami relief 
Various organizations sponsor charity events 
By EILEEN DUFFY A"i.,lant News Editor 

Wlwt.lwr by bidding on a Sri Lankan cral't. buying a eookin or dropping somn money into a collnr.lion hox. many Notre Damn studnnts and faeulty havn rnspondnd to tlw tsuna­mi rnlinl' dforts-a $173.000 rnspons!~, to hn nxad. 
In tlw past two weeks, tho Notrn Damn community has ar.lnd on its Catholie erend of !'harity hy donating money on hnhall' of those a!Tneted in the Dnr. 26 disaster. especially knnping in mind the I05 eur-
Demand high for concert 
1,231 students enter ticket lottery for New York Philharmonic 
By TERESA FRALISH 
A"ociate News Editor 
llnspitn high demand from Notrn l>anw studnnts for tiek­ots to the Fnh. :~ Nnw York Philharmonic pnrl'ormaneo at tlw llnBartolo Performing Arts CentPr. organizers still have not dncided exactly how many tickds thny will allocate to students. 
A!:eording to PAC Dirnetor of Audinnen llnvelopmenl Tom Barkes. 1,231 students nntnrnd tho lottery to pur­rhaso tieknts, which eosl $25 na!'h. Tlw pnrformancn will bn held in the !.nylon Conen1·t llall. which snals WJI. 
Barkns said whiln exact. numhnrs would not be dneidml upon for a eoupln days, stu­dPnts would bn allocat<~d a "majority" of thn tieknls. 

lin said that thn PAC was snlting asido tirknts for multi­piP groups in!'luding faculty, COillliiUility lllOllllWrS and oth­nrs, and organiznrs nnodnd l.imn to dntnrminn oxaetly how many ticknts naeh group would rnenivn. 
Barkes said hn primarily worknd on organization of tho lottery. so PAC 1\xneutivn Director John llaynns would I i k n I y d (~ ei d ~~ fin a I numbers and spneifir. distribution meth­ods for all groups. llaynes was not available l'or eommnnt Monday. 

"ThPrt~'s a lot of diiTnrnnt groups out t.lwrn that arn rep-
see TICKETS/page 4 ren tly en rolled students and numerous alumni from the al'f'oeted countries, University President Father Edward Malloy said in a statement. 

"Calamities such as the tsunami romind us not only of our kinship with those who su ITer, but also of our voeation to see and serve Christ in them and in each othnr," Malloy said. "This effort is a communal attempt to remem­ber thoso things." 
Bosidos eollnctions taken up at dorm Masses and in the Basilica, tho $173,000 figure includes donations from Notre· Dame student government, Campus Ministry, the Centnr for So"cial Coneorns and the 
see TSUNAMI/page 3 

The Asian International Society coordinated a silent auction and fundralser In the Coleman-Morse Center to support relief efforts for victims of the tsunami in southeast Asia. 

By MARY KATE MALONE News Writer 
The Council of Hnprnsentativns met Monday night to discuss the possible ereation of an endow­ment to bring high-profile spoak­ers and por/()J'mers to campus. 
Chief executive assistant Davn Baron said a fund would allow the University to attract big­name concerl<> and spoakers. 
"What wo would do is ernato a lund of $1 million, so that every year we're making $50,000 to be usnd lbr concerts and speak­ers," Baron said. 
According to Baron, an endowment fund of $1 million would be created lbr bettor pro­gramming on eampus. Tho $50,000 it would generate amm­ally would be used to help pay 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Metnbers debate programtning endo\Vtnent 
!'or major eonenrts or famous speakors. 
Tho idea stems from last year's student body prnsidnnt .Jernmy Lao's Board of Trustnns rnport in May. Lao rnqunstNl trustnn support fill' a $1 million fund that would gnnerate $50,000 pnr year. 
Tho endownwnt l'uml would begin with a $100,000 donation l'rom studnnl govnrnmnnt. The monny would bn ta.knn out ol' thf' "carry-over l'und," which has serwd w; a hum~r l'und l'or stu­dent govnrnment, in tlw 1wnnt an o!Ticn nxcnods its budgnt. Bncausn of accumulation l'rom prnvious ynars ol' leftovnr l'unds. thn aeeount. now includns $1 W,OOO. 
Studnnt body prnsidont Adam 
sec COR/page 4 

Saint Mary's closes Haggar Center snack bar 
Cyber cafe to open in new student center 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Assistant News Editor 
Tho llaggar Snack Bar, a popular destination for hungry Saint Mary's students and staff, elosed during winter break in anticipation of a eybnr eaf~) sot to open at the new student centPr in March. 
Tho closure temporarily reducod tho numbor of eater­ies on eampus from four to throo -the Noblo Family Dining llall, Dalloway's Clubhouse and the Cafe a Ia Carte in Madnleva llall. 
Dining llall Manager Berry Bowles said he and other food service workers have made adjustments to aeeommodate students' appetites and sched­ules. 

"Dalloway's has expanded it hours to cover all the hours Haggar would have covered," said Bowles. 
The news operating hours at Dalloway's are Monday through Thursday, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m., Friday 11 a.m. to midnight and Saturday and Sunday !'rom noon to mid­night. 
Bowles also preserved the most popular item at the llaggar Snack Bar, the double­cheese burger. Students ean now request the burgm in the grill seetion of the dining hall. 
While Dalloway's is located much farther from any of the residence halls than llaggar, Bowles said he has received 
see CLOSING/page 4 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, January 25, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 


B.A., B.S., M.R.S.? 
What is the first thing that a Saint Mary's girl does when she wakes up in the morning? Puts her pants on and walks back to cam­pus. What does a ·Saint Mary's girl have that a Notre Dame girl 
Kelly Higgins 
doesn't? A rejec­tion letter. What a riot. 
Photographer
These jokes came as quite a surprise to me. Before moving into Saint Mary's, I did not know anyone who had ever attended. 
I did, however, know a few Notre Dame alums. In all of my discus­sions with them, Notre Dame's dis­taste for Saint Mary's girls never came up. 
They seemed just as proud as I was that I had chosen to attend a school like Saint Mary's. In case you haven't heard, Saint Mary's is number one in its category. This means that we have a reputation for being a great school as well. 
My college search ended when I visited Saint Mary's. No, I did not apply to Notre Dame and get rejected, therefore settling for Saint Mary's. I choose this school without any consideration for Notre Dame. All of us did not set­tle. 
I am confident that my education will prepare me in the best way possible to impact the world. Saint Mary's has a number of great pro­grams in which many Notre Dame students take part. 
Considering how wonderful Saint Mary's is on its own, I needed no extra persuasion. Therefore, Notre Dame had no bearing on my deci­sion to come to South Bend. This means that I am not looking for a husband, and my goal in life is not to get my M.R.S. degree. 
I am not spending my time scouring Notre Dame for boys-I don't want to steal them from you. It is also not my fault that we have a reputation, so please, when you hear I am from Saint Mary's, guys, keep your smirks to yourself, and girls, keep your dirty looks as well. I am just looking to get a great education from a superb women's college and have a good night every so often. I am not out to take anything from you. 
Although you may not be fond of me, I have respect for Notre Dame, its students and its traditions. I am thankful that I have the opportuni­ty to take part in all that your cam­pus has to offer, including The Observer and I love taking pictures so that everyone can see what is happening on my little campus across the street. 
I know many wonderful Notre Dame students, and I hope to know many more. So please, the next time my friends and I catch the "sluttle," oops I mean shuttle ­give us a chance. We are no differ­ent than you. 
Contact Kelly Higgins at khiggiO 1 @saintmarys. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE CAMPUS BUILDING BESIDES YOUR DORM? 

Drew Cramer Tucker Kappler Himanshu Kothari Emilie Kretschmar early Rauch Elizabeth Seilie 
junior junior junior junior junior freshman Alumni Sarin Zahm Welsh Family Welsh Family Lewis 
"Badin -they "Legends, "Breen-Phillips, "ROTC, because "The guard "LaFortune ­call me Sleazy because I love by far., I like men in shack-do because it has 
,

Drew. the sauce. , uniform., they have a food, sleep and bathroom in people. , 






DUSTIN MENNELLNThe Observer 

Junior Julia Burke relaxes in a makeshift hammock newly installed in the indus­trial design studio in the basement of Riley Hall. 
OFFBEAT 
Mold shuts down post office in Iowa 
OTHO, Iowa -Hain, snow and sleet won't keep the mail from being deliv­ered. But mold? The post office in this small north­ern Iowa town has been closed since Dec. 8 after a black mold fungus called Stachybotrys was found in the building. 
Now, the town's 575 residents must travel eight miles to Fort Dodge to get their mail. 
Postal officials are look­ing at solutions, but they say the Otho post office won't open anytime soon. 
"Cleaning black mold is 
TODAY 
a:: 

near impossible," said Cathy Ellett, manager of post office operations. "Once we walk away from black mold, the chances of going back are slim." 
San Francisco may charge for grocery bags 
SAN FRANCISCO -San Francisco may become­the first city in the nation to charge shoppers for grocery bags. 
The city's Commission on the Environment is expected to ask the mayor and board of supervisors Tuesday to consider a 17­cent per bag charge on paper and plastic grocery 
bags. While the goal is reducing plastic bag pol­lution, paper was added so as not to discriminate. 
"The whole point is to encourage the elimination of waste, not to make people pay more for gro­ceries," said Mark Murray, executive direc­tor of Californians Against Waste. 
Environmentalists argue that plastic bags jam machinery, pollute water­ways and often end up in trees. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 


there?" 
IN BRIEF 

The Student Film Festival will run today and Wednesday at the Browning Cinema with showings at 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. and 10 p.m. to midnight. Sponsored by the Department of Film, Television and Theater, it features 18 short films. 
The Career Center is sponsor­ing its annual Winter Career and Internship Fair in the Joyce Center from 4 to 8 p.m. today. Tho event is open to students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Holy Cross College and other area colleges and universities. It is preceded by a diversity recep­tion from noon to 2:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center's Monogram Room. 
Anna Battigelli from the State University of New York will pres­ent a lecture entitled "After the English Revolution: John Dryden, Roman Catholicism and the Language of providential Design" Wednesday from 4:30 to 
5:45 p.m. in 119 O'Shaughnessy. 
The Center for Social Concerns will sponsor an informational meeting about Summer Service Projects from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. Wednesday in the LaFortune Student Center. 
Campus Ministry will sponsor "Prayer From Around the World" from 7 to 8 p.m. Thursday in 330 Coleman-Morse Center. 
AcoustiCafe, sponsored by the Student Union Board, will take place Thursday from 10 p.m. to midnight in the LaFortune base­ment. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 
~ 


HIGH 18 HIGH 33 LOW 17 LOW 26 
..... 
:::E: 
~ 
..... 

3: 
..... 


~ 
<C 
(.) 
0 

..... HIGH 33 HIGH 31 HIGH 32 HIGH 18 
LOW 28 LOW 28 LOW 5 LOW 4 
Atlanta 74 I 62 Boston 70 I 49 Chicago 64 I 48 Denver 65 I 42 Houston 83 I 67 Los Angeles 78 I 72 Minneapolis 80 162 New York 70 I 49 Philadelphia 75 I 48 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 61 I 48 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampa 88 I 68 Washington 75 I 49 
Tuesday, January 25, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group discusses student petition 
By KELLY BALE Nt•w' Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of <;owrnanen nwt Monday to discuss tlw petition from tlw student presidential tieknt not allowl'd to run. 
Owrall. 302 signaturns W<~re on Llw J>Ptit.ion from junior Katlwrinn Knlly and freshman Lauren McCalistnr, who studnnt of'f'ieials ruled could not run for ofTiee bnnwse they did not dndaro tlwir tirknt by tlw deadlirw. Oflidals had not y<~t deterrnirwd whieh signa­tun~s won~ from studonts. 
l·:loctions eomrnissiorwr Anna Batwr said thn eleetions appoal ronunitten uplwld the decision of Llw elections eommittoo not to per­mil tho tirkPt. to run. but shn PXprnssml cone<~rn with the current Student (;ovnrnnwnt Association Constitution, whirh is new this year. 
"I would proposn that we form anotlwr Constitution Committee to look at tlwse issues," Bauor said. "Wiwn you get it tested, you find Wl'aknnss in it." 
Bauer sugg<~sted looking at tho oxart wording of certain issues rngarding election polidns. 
"Things need to be a littln morn rlear cut for us." Bauer said. 
Tho BOG ovontually decided a <~ornrnittno should roviow tho consti­tution. and the possibility of setting up a form ol' ndueation for the stu­dent body on tho work involved with B()(; should also be eonsid­ernd. Because only two months rPmain in the rurrent BOG's t.Pnn, 

mnmbnrs voted 15-4 to pass this rnsponsihility on to the next admin­istration. 
Mmnb<~rs also continued planning f(>r a tsunami rolinf fund. 
"Our leadership on this campus is evident and if we can get pumped up about ldonatingl. everyone can," Student Body President Sarah Catherine White said. 
The BOG plans to hold a collec­tion campaign f(>r the entire month of February with the theme of "Show Your Love." 
Mnmbnrs decided to place red colleetion bins in several spots on campus, induding dorms, tho book­store, Dalloway's and Madeleva llall. 
BOG mmnbms also opted to eol­lnet donations door to door, follow­ing their mooting next week. Students who donate during this time will receive a red heart with tlwir name on it to plaee on their door. 
The board voted to send all of the profits to orw organization, the Salesian Fathnrs, who have institu­tions in several areas in India that were afl'ectnd by thn tsunami and focus their efforts on helping to raise and ndueate children. 
In other BOG news: 
+ Senior Mnghan Scallon, a publie relations intern for the College Football llall of Fame, spoke to the BOG about working to promote activitins the llall of Fame will sponsor. 
Student Activities Board will sponsor "Write the Troops," Wednesday at 8 p.m. at Dalloways and will continue to sponsor the event every month f'or the rest of the aeademie year. 
Contact Kelly Bale at BaleO1 @saintmarys.edu 
Tsunaini 
continued from page 1 
Office of International Student Serviens and Activities. It also inr.ludes funds from other University charitable accounts that will be directed to this need, University spokesman Matt Storin said. 
The largest campus effort was the Tsunami Helie!' Drivn, which a variety of eampus groups sponsored. The drive included collections in LaFortune, at athlntic events and in the dorms. It coneluded with a bene­fit buffet dinner of Asian food and silent auction of handcrafted goods from the Asian and African regions. 
Donny llanjaya-Putra, a Fisher Hall sophomore from Indonesia who was at Notre Dame when the tsunami hit, was a chid planner for the event. 
"It's so amazing to watch and experience how many people on this cam pus really care ­enough to come together in this event of solidari­ty," he said. 
llanjaya-Putra said he was motivated to help after enduring the painful experienen of watching the tsunami from afar. 
"At first. I thought it was a minor disaster," he said. "Then nvery time I 
turned on the TV, the [ n u m lwr of victims I was climbing every minute." 
Lisa Lu, a Breen­Phillips sophomon~ who was born in China but now livns in llawaii, donated some silk dress­ns to the silent aurtion, w hi c h i n <' lu d P d n v e r y ­thing from chopsticks to wind chinws to jewelry. 
"It's a call for global unity in a time of disas­ter," l.u said. "Tiw U.S. is supposed to be an altru­istic nation -that moti­vated me." 
Sophomore Covington Doan came to tlw <went. for symbolic. n~asons. 
"It's a good way of showing your friends af'fectnd by the tsunami," he said, "that you and the rest oI' tlw cam pus earn." 
In addition to the large d in rw r, s malin r e v n n t s took place all over cam­pus, including a bake sale in Lewis llall. Sophomore Valerie ;\tria purchased some ba k<HI goods and ofTnred her thoughts on the relief efforts. 
"Nothing we can do can really take away what the trauma of what hap­pened to all those peo­ple," she said. "llowever, it is important to do something, no matter how trivial, to hnlp Uwm start rebuilding their livns." 
Contact Eileen DuffY at edufiY I @nd.edu 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 


WASHINGTON PROGRAM 
-
The Washington Program is accepting applications for Fall 2005 and Spring 2006 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
.... --­
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, January 25, 2005 
Tickets 
continued from page 1 
resented," Barkes said. 

"The Philharmonic wanted some seats -they did not know how many people would be coming." Freshman Franciso Castillo said organizers seriously underestimated student demand and he was not hopeful about receiving a ticket. 
''I'm quite concerned.... It's unfair. The University should try to just do more than one performance." 
Barkes said students and other individuals picked in the lottery would be e-mailed about their status during the next couple days. During winter break, the PAC sent an e-mail explaining the lottery process in which each student chosen would be able to purchase a single ticket. 
Students in the lottery had mixed reactions to the lottery system. 
"At least we're getting a fair chance," said graduate student Belinda Byrne. "I would've preferred it if there had been two tickets [per winning lottery number]." 
Because this was one of the first high-profile events of its kind at the PAC, Barkes said it was difficult to anticipate student interest exactly but organizers expected it to be high. 
''I'm certainly pleased with the numbers of students that respond­ed," he said. 
This performance marks the first time the PAC has used a lottery for student tickets, Barkes said. 
"With the exception of very few events, students have been able to get into everything they've wanted to get into," he said. 
Although not particularly con­cerned about the lottery process, sophomore Margaret Auer said she intended to wait for the results and hoped to be chosen. 
"It's something I personally was really interested in," she said. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 



calli 
COR 

continued from page 1 
Istvan said the excess money in the carry-over fund would comfortably cover the cost of student government's initial investment in the endowment. 
"We will never run a $160,000 debt," Istvan said. "We could easily take out $100,000 and still have more than enough protection." 
Council members debated how to raise the remaining $900,000 for the endowment. 
Siegfried senator James Leito endorsed the idea but emphasized the need for research before further action is taken. 
"The problem is that a lot of work still needs to be done before we can write a charter for this. Who will manage it?" Leito said. "What groups will be able to withdraw from it and how much will they be allowed to collect?" 
Leito told representatives that he met with Father Mark Poorman, vice president for student affairs, to discuss the matter but it was not received well. 
"From his perspective, we have just recently {;Ome up 
Closing 
continued from page 1 
no complaints. 

"It is a little bit farther of a walk for students and that was my biggest con­cern," said Bowles. "The students have just been very cooperative and very supportive." 
Business at Dalloway's, 
with the idea," Leito said. "He the endowment fund could be doesn't think we've done increased, then the likelihood enough research, and he said of bringing big-name musi­it will not be part of his tenure cians would increase. plan." "This is a 100-percent aca­
Council members also demic campus and speakers expressed concern over will serve an academic pur­whether the endowment would pose. But I don't think we draw speakers or musical should completely avoid con­guests to campus. certs," Leito said. "If we are 
Student Union Board going to get the big names, Manager Jimmy Flaherty then we need to shoot for the noted a $1 mil-moon." lion endow­Cavanaugh ment providing "'f we are going to senator Jordan $50,000 a year get the big names, Bongiovanni would not nec­reminded repre­
then we need to 

essarily be ade­sentatives of the 
shoot for the

quate enough need to pursue to bring large moon. the interests of concerts to the students on campus. campus, since
James Leito 

"To be hon­the initial dona­

Siegfried senator

est, if we're tion made by stu­talking about dent government bringing in Dave Matthews, it's is ultimately from the students not enough money," Flaherty themselves. said. "To put on a show the "Where the money came way it should be for him would from is going to influence cost between $250,000 and where it is going," she said. $500,000." "The money is from students 
Flaherty said choosing to and for students, so they need allocate the fund to speakers to be considered in where it's instead of musicians would be going." more beneficial and practical. Student body vice president 
"It is going to be harder to Karla Bell assigned various get alumni to donate money for members of COR to a commit­a big U2 concert," he said. tee that will research the possi­
Leito agreed, but said that if bilities of an endowment fund 
both from students and staff has increased, said Bowles. 
"Traffic has been increas­ing steadily to the point where it is almost as good as what was at Haggar," said Bowles. "The bigger concern for me is the stu­dents. [The wait time at Dalloway's I should be get­ting shorter because the students over there are getting trained." 

can you hear it"r 

The most fortunate people in life are those who not only find their camng, but also find the opportunity to follow it. Each day at MSKCC, we'll offer you the chance to do just that, by helpi11g us break new ground in the research, treatment, education and prevention of cancer. Join us at the Winter Career and Internship Fair to find out how you can make a difference in the lives of cancer patients around the 
...
world, as well as your life too. 


Mernorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center 
The Best Caucer Care. Anyuobere. 

Some of the cooking appliances in Haggar will be moved and used in the new cyber cafe, said Bowles, but most of it will be sold and replaced with new ones. 
No decision has been made on future use of the space the snack bar previ­ously occupied. 
Employees who had for­merly worked in Haggar were re-assigned to other 
and develop a plan to begin raising money. 
Leito a<>sured representatives that steps would be taken to turn the discussion into reality. 
"By the end of the academic year we will have a plan for the endowment and hopefully money going into it," Leito said. 
In other COR news: 

+ Representatives also dis­cussed the technology fund, and Leito announced to repre­sentatives that new computers are going to be purchased. 
"Effective immediately, SUB and student government will each be getting a new comput­er," Leito said. 
Leito noted that the actual number of computers to be purchased was not yet deter­mined. 
"We will get OIT to look at our computers a see which ones are salvageable," he said. 
Those that can be repaired will likely be given to each class council. Members told Bell how many computers they believed their respective con­stituencies needed. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
positions on campus, said Bowles. 
Some moved to Dalloway's while others now work in the dining hall of in catering services. 
"The opportunity was given to students as well that if they wanted they could pick up hours at the dining hall," said Bowles. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
Come visit us at the 
WINTER CAREER AND INTERNSHIP FAIR 
January 26, 2005 4:00pm -8:00pm Joyce Center, Field House 
If unable to attend, please forward your resume to: College Relations Department, 633 Third Avenue, 5th Floor New York, NY 10017. E-mail: sloanc@rnskcc.org 
www.mskcc.org Equal Opportunity Employer/Affirmative Action 





ORLD &NATION 
Tuesday, January 25, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Palestinian militants halt attacks (;A/'A CITY. Gaza Strip-Militant groups have agn~ed to temporarily halt attacks on Israel. a trial p«:riod bPlim~ a formal truce agreement. to give Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas time to appeal to Israel to stop targeting militants, Palestinian ofl'icials said Monday. 
The movm1wnt toward a cease-lire, coupled with Pll'orts by Palestinian policn to stop mili­tants f'mrn !iring rocknl'i from Gaza into Israel, has raised hopes that a deal can be roached to end linn· years of bloody conflict between the two sidns. 
In tlw only serious incidnnt Monday, soldiers shot and killed a Palestinian, who was in a no­go zone rwar the Karr1i crossing between Gaza and Israel apparently planning to plant a bomb. i\rmy Hadio and tlw military said. On Jan. 1:{, l'alnstinian attackPrs killed live Israelis at the crossing. 
Saddam's lawyer receives threats 
AMMAN, .Jordan -An Iraqi lawyer on Sad darn II ussein 's dnl'ense tnarn has rnecived s«wnral death thn~ats in the last throe weeks and has gone into hiding, the chief dcl'ense attorney for tlw deposed Iraqi leader said Monday. 
Khalil ai-Dul!:imi, orw of 2!i attorneys repn~­sPnt.ing Saddam, told other lawyers on the team that tiH~ threat<; followed his Dec. 16 meeting with tlw ousted Iraqi loader, according to chinl' dPI'nns1: attorn1:y Ziad ai-Khasawnnh. 
Saddam was arraignPd in a Baghdad court in .July 2004 on charg1~s or war crimes and geno­cidP. lin is awaiting trial. 
AI-Duleimi claimed that several messages wPrn delivm·1:d to his home warning that "sui­citln cP!ls had been limned specilically to liqui­datn him so that he would set an example to all other attorneys who havn volunteered to defend 
NATIONAL NEWS 
March held to protest Roe v. Wade 
WASHINGTON -Abortion protesters marched though chilly Washington on Monday m!lboldmwd by Hepublican election gains they said gave new momentum to their 32-year light to overturn Hoe v. Wade. President Bush told thmn by phone, "This movement will not fail." 
Protest leaders said stronger Hepublican majorities in both houses of Congress and Bush's re-election ret1ect the public's support for more restrictions on abortion. Chief Justice William Hchnquist's battle with thyroid cancer injected a snnse of urgency into this year's dmnonstrations, nearly guaranteeing one retire­ment on the high court during Bush's term. 
Loan program needs improvement 
Wi\SIIINGTON -The Education Department lacks oversight of a rapidly growing program that leL'i colleges lend money and turn a profit at public expense, congressional auditors say. 
Without improvement, the Federal Student Aid oflice "may be unaware of practices that could place taxpayer dollars at risk," the (;ovnrnment Accountability Ollice said Monday. 
The government has long counted schools as eligible lenders under the Federal Family Education Loan Program, giving students another place to turn for l1nancial aid. Yet over the last decade, colleges have embraced the program as a way to make money -revenue often usml to help lower costs for students, but also to fix up campuses or to recruit new stu­dnnl'i. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Hoosier soldier killed in Iraq 
TEHHE IIAUTE -A soldier from Terre Haute has been killed while serving in Iraq, his family said. 
i\rmy Sgt. Kyle William Childress, 29, died on Friday. lie was assigned to the 1st Cavalry Division based at Fort Hood, Texas. his family said. Details of his death were not immediately rdncL'ied by the Defense Department. 
Soldiers from the 1st Cavalry Division are among the 35,000 troops in a task force work­ing in the Baghdad area on security and others missions in Iraq. 
Mass suicide attempt at Gitmo 
23 terror suspects tried to hang or strangle themselves during 2003 protest 
Associated Press 

SAN JUAN,Puerto Hico­Twenty-three terror sus­Pf~cts tried to hang or strangle themselves during a week-long protest orches­trated in 200:~ to disrupt operations and unnerve rww guards at the U.S. mili­tary camp at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, the U.S. military said Monday. 
Officials hadn't previously reported the incidents, which the military called "self-injurious behavior" aimed at gP.tting attention rather than serious suicide attempts. 
The coordinated attempts wen1 among 350 "self­harm" incidents that year, including 120 so-called "hanging gestures," at the secretive prison that opened after the Sept. ll attacks, according to Lt. Col. Loon Sumpter, a spokr~sman for th1~ detnn­tion mission. 
In the Aug. 18-2(>, 2003, protest, nearly two dozen prisoners tried to hang or strangle themselves with clothing and other items in their cells, demonstrating "self-injurious behavior," the U.S. Southern Command in Miami said in a statnment. Ten detainees made a mass attempt on Aug. 22 alone. 
Last year, there were 110 The military has reported harm incidents, it shows detainees' mental health self-harm incidents, 34 suicide attempts since the type of impact indefi­care, at the request of the Sumpter said. the camp opened in nite detention can have, but Army surgeon general. 
The 23 prisoners were in January 2002, including it also points to the extreme "There were many things steel mesh cells and they one prisoner who went into measures the Pentagon is I wanted to see that I was can talk to neighbors. It a coma and sustained taking to cover up things precluded from seeing, par­would not have been possi­memory loss from brain that have happened in ticularly with the interroga­ble to pass notes, and they damage. Guantanamo," said Alistair tion issues," Matthews told are allowed to exercise only The 2003 protests came Hodgett, a spokesman for The Associated Press in a one at a time. as the camp suffered a rash Amnesty International in telephone interview. "In no 
Only two of the 23 were of suicide attempts after Washington, D.C. way did I get honest or considered suicide attempts Maj. Gen. Geoffrey Miller "What we've seen is that accurate information. I feel -requiring hospitalization took command with a man­it wasn't simply a rotation like I was being systemati­and psychiatric treatment. date to get more informa­of forces [guards] but an cally misled." Officials said they dil'l'eren­tion from prisoners accused attempt to toughen up the IIe criticized some prac­tiated between a suicide of links to al-Qaida or interrogation techniques tices, and said it was attempt in which a detainee Afghanistan's ousted and processes," he added. "appalling" that medical could have died without Taliban regime, which had Dr. Daryl Matthews, a professionals shared intervention, and a "ges­sheltered Osama bin forensic psychiatrist at the detainees' medical records ture" aimed at getting Laden. University of Hawaii, said with interrogators. attention. Critics linked the two and he believed he was misled Some 558 prisoners are 
Sixteen of the 23 remain criticized the delay in during a visit to at Guantanamo Bay, many at Guantanamo; seven have reporting the incidents. Guantanamo in June 2003 held for more than three been transferred to other "When you have suicide to investigate and make years without charge or countries. attempts or so-called self-recommendations about access to attorneys. 


Forces capture 'lethal' al-Qaida leader 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD, Iraq -Iraqi security forces have arrested the "most lethal" top lieutenant of al-Qaida's leader in Iraq -a man allegedly behind most of the car bombings in Baghdad since the U.S.-Ied inva­sion, including the 2003 assault on 
U.N. headquarters that killed 22 people, the prime minister's office said Monday. 
Sami Mohammed Ali Said al-Jaaf. also known as Abu Omar al-Kurdi, was arrested during a Jan. 15 raid in Baghdad, a government state­ment said Monday. Two other mili­tants linked to Jordanian-born Abu 
Musab al-Zarqawi's terror group also were arrested, authorities announced Monday. 
Al-Jaaf was "the most lethal of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi 's lieu­tenants," the statement said. 
Al-Zarqawi heads ai-Qaida in Iraq, the terror network's local affiliate. The group is behind many of the car bombings, beheadings, assassinations and other attacks driving the insurgency in Iraq. 
The suspect was linked to the August 2003 bombing of U.N. head­quarters in Baghdad, which killed the top U.N. envoy in Iraq, Sergio Vieira de Mello, and 21 others. The 
U.N. attack was "planned and 

directed by two others affiliated with Abu Omar," the statement said. 
Al-Jaaf was responsible for 32 car bombing attacks that killed hundreds of Iraqis, the statement said. Al-Jaaf "confessed to building approximately 75 percent of the car bombs used in attacks in Baghdad since March 2003," said Thaer al-Naqib, spokesman for interim Prime Minister Ayad Allawi. 
"Abu Omar al-Kurdi claims responsibility for some of the most ruthless attacks on Iraqi police forces and police stations," ai­Naqib said. 
page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, January 25, 2005 
FCC rejects w-atchdog group's con1plaints 
Members counter 36 objections of indecency filed by parents against popular TV shows 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Regulators rejected 36 complaints of inde­cency Monday against popular TV shows including "Friends" and "The Simpsons." 
The objections had been filed with the Federal Communications Commission by the Parents Television Council, a watchdog group that frequently complains about sex and violence on tele­vision. 
"In context, none of the seg­ments were patently offensive under contemporary commu­nity standards for the broad­cast medium, and thus not indecent," the agency said in a statement. The FCC also ruled "the material was not profane, in context." 
Three members of the five­member FCC approved the orders: Chairman Michael Powell and Kathleen Abernathy, both Republicans; and Democrat Jonathan 
Adelstein.  The  "In what  likely to be lis­ 
two other com­missioners, Democrat Michael Copps and  community in America are graphic terms for  tening and watching. The FCC said the segments in  
Republican Kevin Martin, dissented  genitalia decent?"  question "were not patently  
on parts of the rulings. Copps said in a  Lara Mahaney Parents Television  offensive" within the context of the shows.  
statement  that  Council spokeswoman  The  FCC's  
the agency should  responses  to  
have performed a  indecency com­ 

more thorough investigation. plaints have received extra "I believe that some of these scrutiny since singer Janet 
added no clarification and added more confusion." 
The council alleged in the 36 complaints that the programs which aired between Oct. 29, 2001, and Feb. 11, 2004 con­tained sexually explicit seg­ments or used indecent or pro­fane language that violated indecency standards. 
One complaint involved an episode of NBC's "Friends" that aired in May 2003. In it, a female character, her husband and the husband's ex-girl­friend talk about a fertility treatment at a medical office. 
A complaint over "The Simpsons," which airs on Fox, included a scene from a November 2003 episode in which students carried picket signs with the phrases "What would Jesus glue?" and "Don't cut off my pianissimo." 
Federal law bars nonsatellite radio and noncable television stations from airing references to sexual and excretory func­tions between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m., when chil­dren are more 



Supretne Court ends long battle 
Justices deny appeal, refuse to keep woman alive on life support 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The Supreme Court refused on Monday to step in and keep a severely brain-damaged woman hooked to a feeding tube, all but ending a long­running right-to-die battle pit­ting her husband against her parents. 
It was the second time the Supreme Court dodged the politically charged case from Florida, where Hepublican Gov. Jeb Bush successfully lob­bied the Legislature to pass a law to keep 41-year-old Terri Schiavo on life support. 
The decision was criticized as "judicial homicide" by Mrs. Schiavo's father, Robert Schindler, but applauded by her husband, Michael Schiavo, who contends his wife never wanted to be kept alive artifi­cially. 
The court's action is very narrow, affecting only Schiavo. 
More broadly, sometime after returning from their win­ter break, the justices will consider the Bush administra­tion's request to block the nation's only law allowing doc­tors to help terminally ill patients die more quickly. Oregon voters passed that law in 1998, and more states could follow if justices find that the federal government cannot punish doctors who prescribed lethal doses of federally con­trolled drugs. 
Terri Schiavo was 26 when she suffered brain damage in 1990 after her heart tern­porarily stopped beating because of an eating disorder. 
Most of the legal wrangling in the case has involved whether she is in a persistent vegetative state with no chance of recovery and whether her husband has a conflict of interest because he lives with another woman and has two children with her. 
The legal battle. between Mrs. Schiavo's husband and parents began in 1993 and appeared to reach its climax in 2003 when Michael Schiavo won a court decision ordering that the feeding tube be removed. But it was reinserted six days later, after the Legislature passed "Terri's Law." 
The Florida Supreme Court ruled that the law was an unconstitutional effort to override 
"It's judicial 
court rulings. Supreme Court's The nation's high homicide. They refusal to take court refused the case makes
want to murder 
without comment it more difficult
her."

to disturb that for those legal decision. options to pre­"It's judicial Robert Schindler vail," said Jay homicide. They Sekulow, the
Terri Schiavo's father 
president of the United States. That was a very, very difficult and imposing fight. He was very relieved that the rule of law prevailed," Felos said. 
Mrs. Schiavo, who has lived in nursing homes, can breathe on her own but depends on a feeding tube to stay alive because she cannot swallow on her own. She left no writ­ten directive. Her parents con­tend their son-in-law is trying to rush her death so he can inherit her estate and be free to marry again. The Schindlers lost an emergency Supreme Court appeal in 2001. 
The case now goes hack to state Judge George Greer, who already has ruled the feeding tube can be removed. 
"While there are still legal 
options available 
in Florida, the 
want to murder her," Schindler said. "I have no idea what the next step will be. We're going to fight for her as much as we can fight for her. She deserves a chance." 
George Felos, the attorney for Michael Schiavo, said his client will have his wife's feed­ing tube removed as soon as pending appeals are over and a stay is lifted. 
"You've got to look at it from his perspective -he's a citi­zen living in Clearwater (Fla.) and up against the weight of the governor and Legislature of the state of Florida -a governor whose brother is American Center 
for Law and Justice chief counsel who rep­resented the Schindlers at the Supreme Court. 
The Schindlers were in Washington on Monday, par­ticipating in a right-to-life march organized as part of the 32nd anniversary of the Supreme Court's decision legalizing abortion. 
Ken Connor, one of-the lawyers who represented Bush at the high court, said: "The reality is that in Florida, con­victed capital felons receive more due process protection than Terri Schiavo has received in this case." 
broadcasts present a much closer call," he said. 
Powell announced last week he was leaving the FCC in March. Martin, who has been rumored to be among candi­dates to replace him as chair­man. did not comment Monday but said he would issue a statement at a later date. 
An FCC official said the 36 complaints were grouped together because they all dealt with the Parents Television Council, but the official did not comment about why com­plaints filed by the group over other shows were not includ­ed. 
Lara Mahaney. a spokes­woman for the council, said her group has complaints about dozens of other shows pending. 
"In what community in Ameriea are graphic terms for genitalia decent?" Mahaney said. "The commission's ruling Jackson's "wardrobe malfunc­tion" at last year's Super Bowl halftime show. 


The FCC received more than 1 million indecency complaints in 2004, most of them involv­ing the exposure of Jackson's breast during her perform­ance. Fines for indecent pro­gramming exceeded $7.7 mil­lion last year. a huge increase from the $48,000 imposed in 2000, the year before Powell became chairman. 
Powell has said the crack­down was in response to mounting complaints from consumers and Congress. 
Copps criticized Monday's rulings as "rather cursory decisions" that did not address the objections of viewers nor. those of skittish broadcasters worried about what may be too racy to air. lie singled out concern for a movie that aired on ABC in May 2003, "The Diary of Ellen Himbauer." 
Happy 21st Birthday

G.o.w. 
Love Always, 
Dad, Mom, 
John, Kerry 

Service Project Internships 


A"Constructiva" Summer Alternative 

Spend 8weeks at any of 120 sites in U.S.A. 
Choose whom you want to serve, from kids to the elderly to everyone in between (no manual labor required!) Earn theology credits and a $2,000 scholarship 
LAST INFORMATION SESSION 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26 @ Center for Social Concerns Classroom 
~UNIVERSITY OF. 
tRtiJ Applications due 
C EN T E R F 0 R
WNOTREDAME 
SOCIAL 
FEBRUARY 22
CONCERNS
Alumni Association 



THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Tuesday, January 25, 2005 page 7 

jones ·~ ' • 
0,: Same: Down: Composite Volume 1.417 141 • 1,109,404,672 

FTSE IOO(London) 4,812.50 +9.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
AMEX 1.412.87 ~I. 71 NASDAQ 2,016.40 -17.87 NYSE 7,000.14 +3:58 S&PSOO 1,167.64 -0.23 NIKKEI(Tokyo) II .289.49 +51.12 

NASDAQ 100 TR SER I (QQQQ)  -1.24  -0.46  36.59  
SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI)  +4.46  +0.26  6.09  
EBAY INC (EBAY)  -4.60  -3.96  82.89  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -0.44  -0.08  17.93  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.29  -0.29  22.13  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.78  -0.36  46.07  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.43  -0. 18  41 .22  
5-YEARNOTE  +0.22  +0.08  36.47  
3-MONTH BILL  -0.04  -0.0 I  23.0 I  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.28  48.81  
GOLD ($ffroy oz.)  +0.20  427.10  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.43  93.68  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  I 02.6400  
EURO  0.76 56  
POUND  0.53 16  
CANADIAN$  1.2239  

IN BRIEF 
Stock lows blamed on Iraqi election 
NEW YOHK-Stocks slumped in listlnss trading Monday amid concnrns about tho upcoming Iraqi nlnction and rising oil priens. Thn major indnxns dosed at their lowest levels of thn ynar. 
Marknt watdwrs worn growing incn~asingly concnrnnd about January's slide in stocks, which somn analysts blamed on Wall Stroot's strong fourth quarter pnrl'ormancn. A ear hornh att1u:k in Baghdad, targoting tho prime ministnr's party headquarters, did little to IHLsn tho anxinty of invnstors ahead of Iraq's Jan. :{() nlnction. Oil priens declined early in tho day. but snttlod up 2S cents at $4S.S1 pnr harn~l on the Nnw Yot•k Mercantile Exchange. 
"In gnnnral, llw market is waiting l'or the Plertions in Iraq." said Barry Borman, head trader for Hohnrt W. Baird & Co. in Milwauken. "And oil priees havn bonn on thn movn up for tho past week." 
The Dow Jorws industrials seesawed in and out of positivn rangn through much of tho day, closing down 24.3R, or 0.23 pnrcnnt, at Io.:~6S.61. 
Former airline executive to help ATA 
INDIANAPOLIS -Tlw parnnt company of AlA Airlines Inc. narnnd a rntirnd Southwnst Airlines Co. exncutivn Monday to lwlp ATA r1~structure its d1~bt as it preparns to nmergn from bankruptcy. 
John (;. Dnnison will bn ATA's eo-chinf rnstruduring oiTieer, working with its man­agonwnt to restructurn operations and pro­pam a bankruptcy rnorganization plan. 
l>nnison rntin~d from Southwnst Airlines in 200 I aftor 15 yoars with tlw Da llas-basod car­rinr, which rnaclwd a $117 million deal last month undPr which it will aequirn six of' A'I'A's 14 gatos at Chicago's Midway lntnrnational Airport. 
lin will sharn that task with Soan Frick, Al/\'s vice prnsidnnl of' strategic planning, who was namnd to the eo-chief' post this month artnr t.lw airlitw's ehinf restructuring officer, <;illwrt Viets, stnppnd aside. 
Vints, a l'ornwr Arthur Anderson exocutivo, had hiH'n namml to the restructuring post in (ktolwr as Indianapolis-based ATA nearod bankruptcy. 
Temperatures fall, oil prices rise 

Supply concerns combining with Northeast winter storrn lift crude-oil futures 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -Crude-oil l'utures settled slightly highcn in New York on Monday, as supply con­cerns mixed with freezing temperatures in the Northeast United States to lift prices. In other com­modities trading, silver futures secured their high­est dose so far in 2005. 
Uppermost in oil traders' minds were worries about a brewing oil-worker strike in Nigeria and potential terrorist attacks on Middle East oil facilities bnl'ore Sunday's election in Iraq. 
"Iraq, Nigeria and cold weather are still holding up prices," said Andrew Lebow, broker for Man Financial in New York. Curbing gains Monday were mounting signs that OPEC wouldn't cut oil pro­duction at its meeting this week in Vienna. traders said. 
Benchmark light, sweet crude futures for March sottled at $48.81 a barrel, up 28 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
In London, Brent crude for March delivery settled at $46.01 a barrel, up 28 cents, on the International Petroleum Exchange. 
The day's muted, mostly sideways activity was in oil and minimize gasoline Iraq may leave the marknt country. could cut oil' morn sharp relief against last consumption, analysts after this Sunday's parlia­than 500,000 barrnls a day Friday's broad rally to said. mentary election. of oil production. nnarly $50 a barrel, as Nymex heating oil "Presumably, some of In othnr trading, silvor Now England braced for futures for February set­this fear premium in tho futuros at tho Nyrnnx set­one of its biggest snow­tled up 1.95 cents at market will come out, pro­tled up al'tnr fund and storms in more than 25 $1.4032 a gallon after hit­viding nothing astronomi­dealnr buyers w1~rn drawn years. ting a month high in the cal happens," he said. into the market by tlw ini­
The storm, which piled morning. While Iraq has been tially firm industrial nwtals as much as three feet of Nymex gasoline futures plagued with many local­arona and early wnaknnss snow on some parts of for the samn month settled ized terrorist strikes this in the U.S. dollar against New England during tho at $1.2990 a gallon, down month, none have had othnr currnnr.ins. weekend, mostly eleared 6 cents, aftor approaching global ramifications. Even Tho most active March by Monday, but some phys­two-month high in early so, it is too soon to tell contract s1~ttlnd 4.H cont.s ical supply snags lingered. trading. what will happen during higher at $6.S6 an ounce. 
Barge traffic carrying On tho IPE, February the next six days. April gold was up :w pf~troleum products slowed gasoil futures rose $3.25 to In Nigeria, oil unions conts to $429.:~0 an oum:P. in New York Harbor during $407.25 a metric ton, as pushed back Monday's Spot gold in Nnw York the weekend, with at least traders also reportnd cold­plan to strike until finished up I 0 ennts at one local barge company er winll~r tmnperaturns in Tuesday in order to mont $426.b0 an ounn~. still reporting difficulties. Europe. with the Nigerian govnrn­April platinum gaitwd 
Tho storm, which dosed Oil futures could stay mt.mt's labor ministry of'li­$2.90 to $S72.20 an ounen, airports and bus terminals, high if the chilly weather. eials. The strike, which whiln March palladium likely will increase short­continues, Lebow said, but seeks to oust two oil indus­rose S5 cents to $192.90 term demand for heating a $3 to $4 fear premium in try executives from tho an ounce. 



CEO asks to bar investor testimony 
oxistonco of a scheme to inflate earn­Tho judge had no comnHmt. on l.lw
Associated Press 

ings "but, rather, that he was unawarn latost Scrushy dofonso rPqtwst. 
BIHMINGIIAM, Ala. -A jury was of it and was not a knowing partici­Tho liling by Scrushy's lawynrs said solnetnd Monday fiJI' Hichard Scrushy's pant." thn govnrnmnnt is nxJ.wdnd to show corporate fraud trial as tho fired Tho Scrushy dol'nnse said that sinee that a hugn fraud took plaen, induding llnalthSouth CEO asked tho judge to ho is not contesting that others at testimony from all fivn f'ornwr rhinf' bar tostimony about investor losses in lloalthSouth falsified financial reports, financial ollknrs of' t.lw mmpany that an accounting scandal at the n~habili­jurors do not ncod to hear anything they had "direct conversations" with tation chain. about its impact on investors. Scrushy about thn scheme. Since 
The jury of 12 and six alternates Prosecutors have said earnings were Scrushy is not ehaliPnging thn ~~xis­was chosen in a courtroom dosed to inllatnd by $2.6 billion from 1996 to tnnen of' f'raud at llnalthSouth, tlwrn is the public, with news media observing 2002. no nnnd for victims to testify about tlw on closed-circuit tnlnvision. Tho Serushy, 52, has pleaded not guilty f'i nancial harm they su fl'nrnd, thn panel's composition was not known. to a 5S-count indictment that includes dd'nnsn said. 
U.S. District Judge Karon Bowdro charges of fraud, conspiracy, obstruc­"The onfy real issun for t.he jury to told thn jurors to n~turn Tuesday for tion ofjustice, perjury, money launder­decide is whetlwr or not Hichard opening statements. ing and l'also corporate reporting in Serushy was a knowing participant in 
In a filing late Sunday, attornoys for the first test of the 2002 Sarbanes­the sc.hnme to dnf'raud." the dnf'nnse Scrushy said he is not contosting the Oxloy Act. said. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, January 25, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Reflection on the Inauguration
The Indqunulent, Daily N~Wspap~ Srrving Notre Dame ntul SA,'111 MaryS 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWs EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: jim Coulter CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4 543 sports: I @nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK smc. I @nd.edu PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commenraries, letters and columns present the view ofrhe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The ftt­expression ofall opinions through letters is encoura!:\ 1 Letters to the Editor must he signed and must indude contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies ,-hould be dimud to Editor in Chief Matt f.ozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tht Ob'iervt't {USPS 'i99 2.-4000) is published .'vtond.ty through 1:nday except durin~ cx:tm :tnd v.acuion peri!Xh. A wbscription 10 l11c Obscrv~r b $JUO for (lflc Jl.'adcmic yt:.lt; $)')tOr OAe sem~(t!; 
Tht Observer is published at: POSTMA>TER 014 South Dining. HaJI Send a-cldr¢!>.li t'orrecdons m: Nom:· Dame. lN 465S6-Ui'79 Th!:'Obi>¢rver Ptriodical po.~r~c paid Jt None Dame r.o. n\)X 779 .wd addition;t.l mailing otlices. 024 Smlth Dlr1ing llal! 
Nom~ Dame, IN 46'5-%-0779 
TI1~: Olru:rvc:r is.;~ m~u1her orthe A.ssnciatc:tt Press.. Alt re!nMu~..-"ti(ll\ rightll tre rc:savcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Teresa Fralish Kate Gales Maddie Hanna Heather Van 
Julie Bender Hoegarden Viewpoint Maggie Oldham Katherine Rowley Scene Graphics Ram a Graham Ebetsch Gottumukkala Illustrator Katie Knorr 

Despite long delays and Friday's bliz­zard, our small group managed to make it out to Washington for last week's Inauguration. It was great to be back out in Washington to see the spec­
tacle of tho':lsa~ds of Tom Rippinger
Texans gettmg m the way of native Confessions of Washingtonians on a Campus the Metro, as well Conservative 
the glare of some lib­erals clinging to their "Kerry Edwards" buttons in some form of therapy. 
From my experiences of the city in our Washington Program, I could easily pick out the D.C. natives against the throngs of tourists. Sometimes I could not help but get mad myself as large groups of various fellow red state vot­ers clogged up the escalators and vio­lated many parts of what I learned to be the unwritten rules of east coast eti­quette. As I began to notice some trends in the behavior of the two groups, I began my own version of an informal social science study through observation. 
Despite all this, the throngs of red states had some very surprising and redeeming qualities that I didn't see in their D.C. counterparts. At many ran­dom times on the Metro, -some would say hello and start a conversation. They also felt very comfortable dress­ing in some of the tackiest souvenir sweatshirts and hats I have ever seen. All of these traits were very stereotypi­cally American, and in our grand tradi­tions of being the ever annoying tourists. 
With the exception of a few privi­leged donors, the people attending this inauguration were not a group of aloof billionaires. They were the kind of friendly Midwesterners and Southerners I have learned to love in my experiences of America. 
Collectively, they share in the pain of those who have unfortunately lost loved ones in Iraq. At many of the Inaugural Balls, Veterans were hon­ored for their service and given free invitations. Debunking yet another myth of Hepublicans, we did not cele­brate this inauguration aloof to the sacrHices that brave heroes have made. 
At the Indiana Ball, the so-called "evil corporations" sponsoring this event paid for veterans and their fami­lies to attend for free. The Toyota Corporation has even started a pro­gram under which employees called to Iraq for service will keep their full pay and benefits for the duration of their tour of duty. Although expensive, these parties were not the obscure elitist playgrounds liberals wish to depict them as, but places where service and volunteerism were celebrated. 
The efforts of the left to simplify our party to radical Christians and heart­less slaves to corporate interests are just not true. Republicans celebrating in Washington last week all shared somehow in the service of their coun­try. Indeed, there was some of the wealthy minority in attendance who could best help the party through gen­erous donations. Aside from that, many of us in attendance put many volunteer hours in on campaigns, worked phone banks and walked door to door to push for an agenda we believed in. 
Before I ramble on any longer, I should draw to the conclusion of my experiment in observation. What sets the red state voters apart from others'? l draw the difference as optimism in America itself. This optimism thanks God we are not standing idly by wait­ing for the terrorists to take the first move on us. It is an optimism that does not think itself above manifesting itself in tacky merchandise and cowboy hats to show pride in the greatest country on earth. It screams they are proud to be American and do not care about the opinions of the world community while doing what is right. It is an optimism that was foolish enough to believe over 200 years ago that 13 colonies could challenge the British Empire. 
That optimism and hope for the future is what has made the United States the superpower it is today. When the rest of the world turns their back on the hard road of doing what is unpopular, the United States will be there to roll up her sleeves and do what is necessary. The war in Iraq will not get any easier. but once again we will show the world the folly of the cowardice of those who hid behind the banner of the League of Nations before World War II, and hide as well today behind the United Nations in the face of terrorism and global weapons of mass destruction proliferation. 
I happened to turn on an IIBO docu­mentary after the Inauguration about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. In it, Israeli leader Benjamin Netanyahu explained that, "The only true test of leadership is risking failure in the pur­suit of doing what you believe is right." Last week, we celebrated the fact President George W Bush has placed his entire political career on the line to pursue something we believe will spread the banner of freedom and increase the security of the world. 
Tom Rippinger is a senior political science major. He supports President Bush and is the co-President of the Notre Dame College Republicans. He can be contacted at trippinl@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Talent alone won't make you a success. Neither
How many of your professors are 
will being in the right place at the right time, 

priests, brothers or sisters? 
unless you are ready. The most important ques­tion is: 'Are your ready?'" 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 
Johnny Carson 


www.ndsmcobserver.com 
entertainer 



Tl·iE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Tuesday, January 25, 2005 page 9 
U-WIRE 
Late-night loses a star 
.Johnny Carson, tho famed NBC "Tonight Show" host of almost 30 years, dine! Sunday. II is death was the top story of nnws hroadeasts for most, ir not all, or Sunday aftnrnoon. 
Citing tho riato or his rntirnnwnt (many or us worn still in nlnmontary school), some may argue how mueh his death actually Staff Editorial am~ets this genoration. 
"Mom than you think," we rnspond. 
Ball State 

II is likely that row, ir any, or us 
University

know Carson's work porsonally; oven 
Daily News 

l.lwn. how many pooplo in this youth­rut, eollogn crowd could rncall a "ravoritn" monwnt tlwy saw on Carson's show? 
Not many, wn bet. Carson passed ofT tho "Tonight Show" laugh-mastnr dutios to current host Jay Leno in tho spring or I <JIJ~. To put things in porspoelivo, at the time "Soinrnld" was rwaring tho end its third season, air­ing tlw now well-known episode "The PEZ Disp(mser." (Many rans may rer.all tho npisode, but probably beeausc of' tho show's now widespread syndieation.) 
We might not bn ablo to recall any personal memories or Carson's stint. but his ell'net on latn-night can still bo li•lt to this day. As ror Carson the man: we worn not alorrn in our oblivion. 
In aduality. rew people knew Carson wPII. lin was known as a good man who led a privatn lil'o. Joan Hivors, who ofton !illnd in ror Carson, told CNN that, "Nobody got to know him ... lin was very privatn." 
Why are students liberal? 
What makns eollngn students liberal? The liberal answnr is they want to make tho world bottnr. Then again, just about everyone in polities wishes for that in one way or another. Tlw polomical answer is most col­logo students arn young, 
Anthony Harris

spoilnd and a hit shnltered. Wlwtlwr or not that's true, it only explains eharaeter, University of not mol.iL Tho complete Iowa Daily answnr to why many stu­Iowan donls are libnral requires an examination or extnrnal rewards, beeause no ono is frne from her or his selfish human drives. 
Status: Young peoplo strive for status by assodating thnmselves with people who have status and tlu1 values honored by those peo­ple. In eoHege, that moans intellectuals, dem­ocratic: politicians and entertainers. By com­mitting thornselvos to liberal values, youth sook to acquirn value. This is understand­ablo, hneausn without status, one doesn't havo any agtmey, and without agnncy, life has little moaning. 
Stability: Liberalism offers the young, oiTnndml by moral shadns of gray (the Iraq war, for exarnplo), a sturdy, simple frame­work for understanding the philosophical, soda! and twtm physical ordor of things. 
Snlr-esteem: What young adult doesn't like lwing told "good job" by approving authority ligurns? When those authority ligures are ovnrwhnlmingly liberal, the dearest route to positivn reinl'oreemnnt involves dev'eloping and nxpressing sensibilities that professors arn llattered with, as opposHd to challenged by. 
Sncurily: Being frivolously accused of nverything from racism to xenophobia by activist students is no way to spend four years of eollegn (especially when teaching assistants reel powerless about discouraging disruptive behavior). Disassociating from unpopular conservativn philosophy will shel­ter most students from this type of degrading treatment by their penrs. 
Legitimacy: Many students get their first taste of the adult world of polities through collnge. To new converts, no matter how small of a di!Ternnee they make, or even if tlwy negativnly affect America, participating in bohnm ian protests and echoing all tho philosophins society has deemed "progres­sive" produens a strong feeling that one is eontributing to the social good. 
Undiplomatic immunity: In the past, defin­ing grievances in liberal terms, no matter how exaggerated they were, allowed students a forum to exercise their most destructive drives with minimal repercussions. During the late 1960s and early 1970s, groups such as the Students for Democratic Society harassed professors and other students, burned books and took over buildings, fear­ing nothing more than an occasional expul­sion from conl'liet-phobic administrators (as for National Guard troops, that's another story). Liberals know this, whieh is why they romanticize the Vietnam War era. EvPn today, liberal acting out is often rewarded in the long run. Liberals know that Michael Moore is a liar and a propagandist, but they eeho his arguments and buy his movies any­way. 
Empathy: Liberalism offers a form of love contingent on the ability to portray one's self as a vietim of a callous American culture. Bocause it's neeessary to at least maintain the appearance of victimhood to become the focus of liberal kindness, liberalism encour­ages grievance-collecting or worse. 
In ease you haven't heard, llarvard University President Larry Summers suggest­ed during a eonferenee diserimination may not be keeping women from earning top posi­tions in the sciences at upseale universities. lie listed other possible rpasons for under­representation could be innate biological dif­ferences between men and women and that perhaps women haven't been willing to sacri­f'iee family for eareer as readily as men have. One alleged professional, biologist Nancy Hopkins, walked out of the eonferenee, explaining afterward she "would have either blacked out or thrown up" had she stayed. Liberals could have let her know it's a little pathetic to claim being offended can make one blaek out or throw up. Instead, liberals aceepted Hopkin's hyperbole and legitimized her pettiness, as well as the presumption that Summers couldn't have said the things he did in good faith. 
Blatant patronization may be low, but it still feels good to be on the receiving end of it. 
In contrast, universities only offer conser­vatives the distinction of not being part of the drooling mob and a lot or headaches. 
No wonder students are liberal. 
This column originally appeared in the Jan. 24 issue of The Daily Iowan, the daily publi­cation at the University ofIowa. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Hivers, much like Jerry Seinfeld and others, got her eareer break from Carson during his run on "Tonight." Many others, including Leno, Ball State alumnus and CBS "Late Night" host David Letterman, Hobin Williams and George Carlin, got their big breaks while Carson was at the lwlm, aeeording to Heuters. 
I lad it not boon for his tn'1asured wave over to the guest eoueh, many of us may be sans a lot of laughs from these ontortainers today. 
Although Carson has been in mild sodusion sinee his retirement, making just a handful of public appearances, his jokes were still making their way to lain-night viewers up until his death, we learned just last week. Heuters reported Carson still oeeasionally sent jokes 

to Letterman for a ereative outlet. Every 71lis editorial originally appeared in now and then, CBS' viec president PetPr Lassally the Jan. 24 issue q(The /Jaily News. the daily said, Letterman managed to weave them into his mono­publication at Ball State University. logue. The views expressed in this column are those l~( the 
"It is a sad day ror his family and for the country," author and not necessarily those l~( Tlze Obseruer. 
P.E. needed in schools now m_ore than ever 

A weak body is a poor home for a strong mind. Schools across the country should remember this before eutting physical educa­tion programs. 
In the faee of tight budgets and increased demands for "msults" -i.e. good test seores-some schools have cut or decreased P.E. programs in elementary and seeondary schools. Illinois is the only state that requires daily phys-Staff Editorial ical education for students through senior year. Other states should take note. Northern 
In Tennessee, for example, only 18 percent of Illinois high school seniors take part in a P.E. elass, University according to CNN.com. Northern Star 
About 30 pereent of young people arn doomed overweight or obese, according to a Dee. 27 article in th(~ Washington Times. 
Extra pounds can lead to greater risks for a number of ailmonts, induding diabetes, hypertension, caneer, heart disease and depression. 
The Institute of Medicine of the National Academies has ealled for increased "opportunities for frequent, more intensive and engaging physical activity during and after school" to improve students' health. 
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has even declared obesity an epidemic. 
With this in mind, physical education is more important than ever. Keeping students active helps head off obesity and lets them work off energy so they can bettor focus on homework. 
P.E. also teaches students kinetie skills and builds teamwork. It can provide students with a foundation for health. upon which they can build for the rest of their lives. 
Critics of physical education say classes are often poorly run, with teachers facing little accountability. While these may be legitimatP complaints, addressing them direetly would be morn produetive than reducing or eutting programs altogether. 
Physical edueation is still just that-cdueation. 
This editorial originally appeared in the Jan. 24 issue l4· The Northern Star, the daily publication at Northern Illinois University. 
The views expressed in this column are those c~( llze author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LPttennan said in a statement to CNN on Sunday. "I~~~ was the best-a star and a gentleman." We may not remember Johnny Carson well. but his work and subsequent ell'eets on late-night tnlevision will forever be rnmmn­bered. Carson did not afl'net on our generation direet.ly; yet, if it were not for him. many of tho stand-up comics and actors whom this generation has grown 

to love would not exist in tho entity they do today. Carson has always had modnrn late­night television and 
conwdy's debt and 

gratitude; hn deserved 
it. 
And for that, wo bid 
him a "very heartfnlt rarowoll." 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, January 25, 2005 
MOVIE REVIEWS 

'Closer' seduces with dark outlook on relationships 
By MARY SQUILLACE Scene Critic 
Trust. Honesty. Forgiveness. While these traits are generally closely associ­ated with love, they have no place in director Mike Nichol's ("The Graduate, "Angels in America") examination of relationships. In his film "Closer," love is not blind. It's naked and complicated and often wielded deviously. The film is an adaptation of Patrick Marber's hit play. Following its 1997 debut in London, the play received rave reviews and continued to garner awards when it opened in the United States. 
The cast consists of only four charac­ters and does not feature one central protagonist. Instead, the emphasis is placed on the characters' interactions with each other. 

ty. The film tracks the deeply entwined and overlapping characters through as they thrive, falter and ultimately fail in love. 
The story unfolds at a rapid, but steady pace. This way the film manages to address the taboo topics like sex and adultery without sensationalizing them. Additionally, to do justice to the intensity of Marber's screenplay, Nichol creates palpable tension and depth with deliber­ate and unique stylistic tactics. 
Asserting people typically remember only the beginnings and endings of rela­tionships, Nichol represents each rela­tionship only with its beginning or end­ing. In this way, he presents just enough information to keep his viewers informed, without overwhelming them with unnecessary details. 
Because the narrative hinges on the 
dialogue, effective 

Jude Law plays and high-quality
Closer

Dan, an obituary acting is essential. writer and aspiring 
Additionally, each novelist. At the character is both start of the film, virtuous and vil­Dan falls for Alice lainous, which Director: Mike Nichols 
(Natalie Portman) requires elasticity
Writer: Patrick Marber

who immediately in each actor's 
Starring: Julia Roberts, Clive Owen, 

charms him with portrayal. Fortu­
Jude Law and Natalie Portman 

nately, all four
her youthful spirit and subtle seduc­tiveness. However, when Dan meets Anna (Julia Roberts), a photographer, his relationship with Alice becomes severely complicated. 
The flirtation between Anna and Dan quickly evolves into a full-blown affair, and Larry (Clive Owen) and Alice, their respective lovers, turn to each other as they simultaneously combat this infideli­

cast members rise to the occasion, and turn-out complex, compelling performances. 
For her role as Anna, Roberts sheds her toothy grin and typical charm, and instead relies on her ability to subtly con­vey guilt and deceit. Similarly, Law exhibits his range, as he takes on a role that is vastly different from his recent roles in "I Heart the Huckabees" and "Cold Mountain." Portman, a rising star in Hollywood, proves herself worthy of her recent Golden Globe with a focused and convincing performance. 
However, in spite of being the least rec­ognizable of the cast, the film's other Golden Globe recipient, Owen (who origi­nally played Dan in the London stage production) arguably delivers the film's best performance. At times his character teeters on the brink of self-destruction, and Owen appropriately adopts an air of raw desperation, gaining the audience's trust and sympathy. 
In other scenes, he changes his approach in order to capture Larry's cal­culating and vindictive side. Overall, Owen's seemingly effortless malleability effectively embodies the complexity of the character. The collective work of the cast lends itself to a powerful finished product. 
With "Closer," Nichols creates a seduc­tive starkness that tempts the viewer to fully engage him or herself, by making assumptions, evaluations and judgments. The nature of this tale is one that undoubtedly lingers long after the screening, as it presents a disconcerting but gripping commentary on relation­ships. 
Contact Mary Squillace at msquilla@nd.edu 
'Noise' fails in hackneyed attempt at success 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene Critic 
In many instances, Hollywood is a lot like a math course. For instance, Hollywood directors and writers often theorize, test and debate with their films. "White Noise" is one such exam­ple of Hollywood grasping at straws in an attempt to piece together a hit film. In "White Noise," director Geoffrey Sax and writer Niall Johnson show they have a firm grasp on hackneyed formu­las. 
"White Noise," under the combined might of Sax and Johnson, is another uninspired, formulaic piece of Hollywood designed to capitalize on the success of "The Ring," "The Sixth Sense" and most recently, "The Grudge." And 

Keaton, an actor probably most famous for his role in director Tim Burton's Batman movies, does a com­mendable job. Curiously absent from movies in recent years, he is one of the few saving graces within the movie. Keaton is well-suited for the part, hav­ing a knack at playing mentally­obsessed, slightly crazed individuals. He is one of the few actors in Hollywood that is almost always enjoyable to watch. 
Keaton does a decent job in his role, as do most of the principal actors. However, while they are given decent roles to fill, the actual story their char­acters inhabit feels very lacking at times. The last half hour of the movie is especially perplexing, as events just seem to happen for little to no reason. The movie definitely ends on a poor 
note, which will 
while it succeeds cause many to

White Noise

on some levels, it leave scratching fails miserably on 
their head in a others. bad way. 
The plot rev­Taking a cue olves around a from the wealth 
Director: Geoffrey Sax 

recent widower, of recent films 
Writer: Niall Johnson

Jonathan Rivers, with a twist at the 
Starring: Michael Keaton, Chandra

as he tries to con­end, "White Noi­
West, Deborah Unger and Ian McNeice

tact his dead wife. se" tries to shock 
Michael Keaton, a capable actor who can't save the film by himself, plays Rivers. The viewer fol­lows Rivers as he delves into taboo areas while trying to contact his recent­ly deceased wife. He does so with the use of "amazing" EVP, electronic voice phenomena, technology. Supposedly, the deceased are able to communicate to the living through their television sets or radios. 

the audience with an unexpected ending. And while the twist isn't quite as bad as the one in 'The Village," it still seems hurried and poorly done. The ending is the most important part of the movie, as it is the last thing viewers get to see. So while the first half of the movie was actually pretty good, the second half taints the entire movie. 
Some credit has to go to the writer though. Johnson has seen enough suc­cessful movies to attempt his own and follows their formulas pretty closely. Some of his plot points are fulfilling towards the end of the film. However, other situations that arise near the film's conclusion were not set up in the least, diminishing the ending. They feel simply tossed into the mix for shock value, which itself wasn't that great. 

The ending does make sense if you think of the films "White Noise" tries to emulate. When you look at the formulas of this film's predecessors, the ending becomes mandatory. 
In the case of "White Noise," the end­ing runs counter to what the movie had previously spent so much time setting up. But who wants to let little details like plot get in the way of proven formu­las? 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Tuesday, January 25, 2005 
page II 
MOVIE REVIEWS 
Unoriginality keeps sequel from 'Parents' greatness 
By CHRIS KEPNER 
Srcnc Critic 
/\h. tho sequel. llollywood's favorite dirty lilllo trick. Takn a good lilm (or at lnast. a rlnr.onl mw, but sometimes tho standards on this vary to include some rnal st.inknrsl. sign on as many of the original actors as possible, extend the original plot, add a few twists and prosto barfo! You'vo (presumably) got yoursolf' another blockbuster! 
"Mod tho l'aronts" was a good film. It nxplon~d a eomndie situation that hadn't bonn ov1~rly oxplorod in pnwious films of tho same gonre, like war epics. /\nd though it wasn't tho most original film of all limn, "Mont the Parents" had a vnry frosh vibn to it that couldn't help hut suck you in. 
gnashing predictable plot continuation, then the answer is yes. If you expect an adequatnly entertaining film with a healthy amount of laughs, then the answer is also yes. 
So maybe it's not. original. So maybe it isn't significantly funnier than "Meet the Parents." So what? In short, if you lower your expectations you will prob­ably enjoy "Meet the Fockers." 
llol'l'man t·eally is hilarious. If for no other reason, he makes this film worth seeing. lie plays Mr. Foeker as an out­going, physically affectionate man that shares his wife's forwardness about all things sexual. Could you see the oppo­site to Hobert De Niro's Ja(;k Byrnes in any other way'? Hoffman and De Niro, two brilliant actors with previous expe­rience playing together, arc a special 
pair to watch in 
Now for some these two roles.
Meet the Fockers

rnason. tho oxdto­Their chemistry, ment over "Mont 
or their charac­tho Fock1~rs" was ters' laek there­ur11:ommonly high of, is the driving given the drcum­force of "MeetDirector: Jay Roach 
staner~s. llero was the Fockers." 
Writers: John Hamburg and James

a soquol nnjoying Barbra Stre­
Herzfeld

a vory rare situa­isand probably
Starring: Robert De Niro, Ben Stiller, 

tion whore tho will surprise
Dustin Hoffman, Barbra Streisand, 

public wanted it moviegoers with 
Blythe Danner and Owen Wilson

JllaUO llVIHl lllOrll her portrayal of 
than tho studio wantml to shovn it down our throats. This rrwiewor was no stranger to the hypo. 
Does "Mont the Fockers" meet expec­tations'! Well. first you have to deeido what your expectations are. If you oxpeet a soquel with recycled jokes and a strikingly unoriginal and teeth-
Mrs. Fockor. For an actor without a whole lot of experi­ence in comedic roles, Streisand per­forms as if she's done nothing else in her eareer. 
But the writing is another matter. You've got Stiller, De Niro, Hoffman, Streisand and a brilliant supporting east. Why does the audience have to 

listen to the film's unnatural, sopho­moric dialogue? 
And was there really an urgency you had to outdo the most over-the-top bit in "Meet the Parents?" You know, the one with the cat peeing on the ashes of Jack's mother? And if you absolutely had to do so, was dropping Greg's shriveled foreskin from the scrapbook into the fondue the best that you could come up with? It's trite, sloppy and lazy. 
If the film's producnrs had callod upon a better writer, this sequel proba­bly would have b1~en a much better film. It might have been able to suc­ceed on its own merits, separate from following the highly succnssful "Meet the Parents." 
For that reason, it's a shame "Mont the Foekors" docsn 't live up to its potential. 
Contact Chris Kepner at ckepner@nd.edu 
Quirky film anchored by Murray's performance 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Srl·nc Critic 
Alfred llitehcoek called them "macgullins" -objeets boing pursued in a film whos11 funetion was to snt in motion tho ma(:hinations of tlw plot. The actual maegullin itself was lnss important than iLo.; ability to motivate the charaeters and clrivn tlw story. 
Tho titlo rharactor of "The Lifo /\quatie with Stovn Zissou" spends most of tho lilm hall'-lwartndly hunting tho Lnopard Shark which ale his l'rilmd and mentor. When he linally limls it, t.he monHmt is simultane­ously trans1:nndnnt and dnllating, a scone which seems to work, but for all the wrong rnasons. Such is the stull' of direc­tor Wos Anderson's nnw film. which rnvnrls back 
tie. 

The plot involves aging Cousteau-esque aquatic explorer and filmmaker Steve Zissou (Bill Murray) whose nature docu­mentaries are starting to have diminishing returns. On his last voyage out, his best friond is eaten by a new species of shark and Zissou vows revenge. llo sets out on his boat, "Tho Belafonte," with his rag-tag crew of scientists, lilmmakers and anony­mous unpaid interns. Matters are compli­cated by the appearance of Ned (Owen Wilson), who may or may not be Zissou's son, and Jane (Cato Blanchett), a pregnant reportnr trying to write a cover story on the washed-out seafarer. 
Tho biggest problem with "Tho Life Aquatie" is plot, or lack thereof. The lilm never has an assured drive and instead touches on everything under the sun. It 
crosses genres 
toward insular uncomfortably and
The Life Aquatic with

filmmaking after with mixed results. tlw critical slH:enss Steve Zissou Depnnding on when of "Tlw Hoyal 
you walk in, the Tnnnnbaums." film is a revenge 
I~von more idio­story, a sea-faring syncratil: than his adventure, a com­!Hovious work, Director: Wes Anderson plicated meditation "The I.il'n /\quatie" Writers: Wes Anderson and Noah on paternity, a is doggodly HCCI111-Baumbach romantic comedy or 
tric almost to the Starring: Bill Murray, Owen Wilson, an action film. point of nonsense. Cate Blanchett and Willem Dafoe Instead of being Ynl /\ndnrson still sweeping and has mwugh charm grand, the scope of in his oddities to make a lilm that is still the lilm serves to make it seem cluttered mnsistnntly entertaining and sporadically and unli>cused. nxr:nlhml, nspedally since he has a pnrl'ect The film's performances are equally SIH:rlll wnapon in star Bill Murray. quirky, but uniformly excellent. Murray is Murray's eharisma and screen presence one of the few aetors who could pull ofT a sympathy in what should be a mostly unsympathetic role. Wilson, who co-wrote the lilm, is likeable and convincing in a fully-realized character. Blanchett proves herself to be one of tho most versatile con­temporary actresses. One of the funniest turns comes from Willem Dafoe, who demonstrates a welcome comedic knack as a reserved German scientist. 

Thankfully, neither the actors nor tho director "dumb down" any of the charac­keep the l'ilm from eompletnly sinking under its own pretensions. 
"The Life Aquatic with Stove Zissou" is one of Anderson's morn esoteric outings. It's impossible not to get tlw sensn hn is making exactly the film he wants to make, but it eomns at the eost of plot and momentum. The worst part about the lihn is how startlingly closn it comes to being a great lihn. There are genuine and won­derful moments throughout. 
ovnrconws the director's smirking lilmie role like Steve Zissou, proverbially wink­ters for comic efl'ect. All of the characters ·­
attitude and proves once again both the ing at the audience with a completely are intelligent and most have a surprising Contact Brian Ooxtader at aging actor's comndic and dramatic met-straight face. He even manages to evoke degree of self-awareness, which helps bdoxtade@nd.edu 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, January 25, 2005 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 


Syracuse escapes Rutgers with strong finish 
discouraged and very down but was 3-for-10 on 3s, missing
No. 4 Orange rally 
we weren't. We were mad," three in the final 2 minutes. 
from 18-point deficit Boeheim said. "I shot it a little quick and I And the coach didn't get on thought it was still goingto beat Scarlet Knights his team. The players got on down," Douby said. "I had my themselves. follow through, it just wasn't 
Associated Press 
"Great teams are going to enough." 
PISCATAWAY, N.J. -Victory have to accept criticism, and Waterstradt, who made the No. 696 for Syracuse coach Jim we all dished it out to each pass to Douby, had a good look Boeheim wasn't like many of other. That's what it's about," at the final shot. thH others. McNamara said. "If you can "It was an unlucky roll. I 
The fourth-ranked Orange still love each other and care thought it was in," he said. "I had to rally from an 18-point about each other after you just was at halfcourt, arms up. It halftime deficit and then watch screamed in each other's face, was one of those weird shots, it a final shot by Rutgers roll that's what's going to make a was in, rolled around and around and out at the buzzer great team." came out." before posting an 86-84 victory Warrick said the players No. 13 Oklahoma 67, No. 7 on Monday night. challenged each other to play Oklahoma State 57 
"It was a great finish, a great their best basketball of the sea­Kevin Bookout scored 23 comeback, one of the best I son. points and Taj Gray added 22 havH been a part of," Boeheim ''I've been in comebacks but as No. 13 Oklahoma exploited said. "There is no doubt at not that fast," he said. "To be a weakness up front with its halftime this was looking like a down 18, turn it around and talented tandem and beat 25-point game the wrong way." actually go up six says a lot ninth-ranked Oklahoma State. 
Terrence Roberts' three­about this team." The Sooners (16-2, 5-0 Big point play with 7.2 seconds left Syracuse went to a fullcourt 12) gave back most of an early capped the comeback, but the press and forced turnovers on 17-point lead before taking win wasn't secure until Quincy the Scarlet Knights' first three over again in the second half Douby's 3-point shot with just possessions to open the second and giving coach Kelvin over a second left spun around half with a 9-0 run. Sampson his 250th win at the rim and fell off, leaving the Abandoning its vaunted Oklahoma. sellout crowd in silencH. matchup zone defense for Gray and Bookout scored the 
It was the 13th consecutive man-to-man, Syracuse had the first 19 points for Oklahoma, 
win for Syracuse (20-1, 7-0 Big deficit to 58-53 in the first 2 and the big men were there 
East), which is the first 1/2 minutes. with the game on the line, too. 
Division I team to reach 20 vic­The Orange started to domi­After Oklahoma State (14-3, 
tories this season. nate on the offensive boards to 4-2) pulled within 33-27, 
"If we would have lost that keep chipping away, and a 3-Bookout scored six points dur­inside to Gray and Bookout, Utah (17-3, 5-0 Mountain 
game on the last play I would pointer by McNamara with ing a 10-0 run that put the who masterfully ran the high­West Conference) entered the 
have been upset with myself 10:01 to play brought them Sooners back in control. In the low and mixed in transition Top 25 on Monday for the first 
because I don't feel I communi­within 70-69. middle of the spurt, Drew baskets, too. time since being ranked for 
cated the message well," Rutgers scored four straight Lavender came down on a fast­By the time Gray finished off two weeks in 2002-03. The 
Boeheim said. points to get the lead back to break, bounced the ball Lavender's alley-oop with a Utes, playing undHr first-year 
The win gave him 20 victo­five, but Syracuse went on an between his legs, and Gray layup to make it 19-2, he coach Ray Giacoletti, have won ries for the 27th time in his 29 11-0 run that was capped by flew in to jam the ball in with already had 11 points and a 12 straight since losing at seasons at his alma mater. McNamara's fifth 3-pointer and his right hand to put Oklahoma pair of two-handed jams. Gray Arizona on Dec. 11. The other Boeheim moved into a tie with the Orange were ahead 80-74 ahead 37-27 and get the crowd was 5-for-5 to start the game, losses were to Washington and Texas Tech's Bob Knight for with 5:56 to play. jumping. and Bookout couldn't miss Utah State, both on the road. second place among coaches "The press really turned the After Bookout dropped in a either. Bryant Markson and Mark with 20-win seasons, three game around," Warrick said. two-handed layup, Oklahoma's The Cowboys eventually fig­Jackson each scored 11 points, behind former North Carolina "We forced them into things lead was 43-27. The advantage ured out the plan and were and Jackson tied a career-high coach Dean Smith. they didn't want to do and they kept growing. able to keep the ball from with 10 assists for the Utes, 
None of that mattered after rushed things." Gray converted a three-point Oklahoma's two big men. who shot a school-record 80 the game that would have been But Rutgers wasn't done. play, Lavender hit a driving McFarlin cut the deficit to 27-percent from the field (24-of-Hutgers' biggest win ever. The The Scarlet Knights managed layup, and Jaison Williams 18 with a fastbreak layup aftHr 30) against the nation's No. 1 highest-ranked team the to take the lead two more made a 3-pointer from the left Gray tried to force a pass defense. Utah's previous best Scarlet Knights have beaten times, the last at 84-83 on two wing to extend Oklahoma's inside to Bookout and it was shooting game was 73.7 per­was No. 6 West Virginia in free throws by Dan lead to 51-31. stolHn by a pair of Cowboys. cent against Air Force in 1987. February 1982. Waterstradt with 27 seconds Joey Graham scored in the Oklahoma State beat The Utes took apart Air 
"If we would have come out left. The 6-foot-11 freshman lane to start a 13-4 run that Oklahoma to the glass early in Force with quick passes and with that win it would have was 0-for-2 from the line for gave Oklahoma State some life, the second half to cut into the lobs to Bogut, a 7 -foot sopho­given them their second los!:! of the season before then. but Bookout converted a three­Sooners' lead. Daniel Bobik's more from Australia. Bogut, the season and boosted our Josh Pace missed a shot in point play, and Williams drilled long offensive rebound led to a who leads the nation in confidence," Douby said. the lane with 10 seconds left another 3-pointer to put 3-pointer by Lucas, and rebounding and double-dou­
Gerry McNamara and Hakim and Roberts put in the rebound Oklahoma ahead 61-44 with McFarlin's putback brought the bles, also had nine rebounds. Warrick each had 21 points for and was fouled. His free throw less than 4 minutes to play. Cowboys within six. Nick Welch had 15 points to Syracuse. gave him five points for the Ivan McFarlin finished with But Oklahoma had an answer lead the Falcons (12-7, 3-1), 
Ricky Shields had 20 points game and made it 86-84. 16 points to lead Oklahoma -and it was more Bookout who lost for just the second and 11 rebounds for Rutgers "I made a good spin, went up State, and Graham scored 15. and Gray. The tandem scored time in eight games. (7-9, 1-5), which has lost six of and I was in the right place at John Lucas III, who had been 11 of the next 13 points, and Bogut scored seven points in seven. the right time," Roberts said. averaging 17.8 points per Oklahoma State was never a 14-2 run at the start of the 
It didn't look like Syracuse Rutgers took a timeout, and game, was held to 10 on 3-for-within single digits again. second half that gave Utah a would have any chance at the its final play was the 3 by 13 shooting. He scored seven No. 25 Utah 63, Air Force 51 46-32 lead after Air Force 20th win when Rutgers led 54-Douby that came as close to points in the final 4 1/2 min­Andrew Bogut scored 25 closed within 12 points. The 36 after closing the first half going in as a ball can without utes. points on 11-of-12 shooting to Falcons, outrebounded 23-13, with a 21-3 run. counting. Oklahoma raced out of the lift No. 25 Utah to a victory couldn't get within single digits 
"We could have been very Douby, who had 11 points, gates and pounded the ball over Air Force. the rest of the way. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED BOSOX FANS check out newyorkchokees.net Professor needs part-time babysitter for  FoR RENT 2·6 bedroom homes for 05-06 Walking distance from NO. MMMRentals.com 532·1408  Grad student renting turn basement studio apt all util + cable TV & inter· net incl. 1 mile to NO $425/month 574-339-0582 COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINIUMS AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BEDROOM,TWO  LOST AND FOUND CAR KEYS w/Caesar's keyring near JACC Mon. morning Reward offered, call507·304·0446  Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Celebrity Parties! Panama City, Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award Winning Company! SpringBreakTravel.com 1·800·678-6386  Wear green. Go Eagles. PW bball what. 38·0 run. wanna date? Go Cubs.  
'-·  three year old boy, please call 1·3770. FoR SALE Pre-owned Dell computers. $100-250. 574-229-3333.  New 4-bdrm,3·bath home. Avail8/05. Cathedral ceiling, fireplace, deluxe kitchen, skylights, 2-car garage, family room, 10x20 deck. Safe area. Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038.  BATHS. HURRY 235·7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2005·2006 Academic year-Available June 1,2005 2 Bedrooms­2 Baths, Washer/Dryer. Security System. Fully Furnished (574)233­7373 or Salvaty@earthlink.net  PERSONAL Spring Break 2005 with STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for group discounts.lnfo/Reservations 1·800­648-4849 www.ststravel.com  Cheapest 2005 Spring Break $499 all-inclusive, all drinks, all food, all parties! www.needspringbreak.com 1·866·668·9037. This is a lot to fill. Oops.  Meghanne is a crazy monkey. Yes that's right. Just kidding. Irish women, sweet. News? Riiiiight.  


Tuesday, January 25, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 13 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 
Williams falls in tournament's fourth round 
Australian native Malik upsets Venus 7-5, 7-6(3) to move on to quarterfinals 
Associated Press 
MELBOUHNE. Australia­Venus Williams was out of st1~p and out of timn. 
Facing three match points, she stumblnd chasing a ball, and her oiT-balancn forehand flopped into the net, giving /\liria Molik a 7-5. 7-6 (3) upsnt Monday in the fourth round of the Australian Open. 
1\ group of women in the rrowd of 14.225 unfurled a banrwr reading: "Venus, you've been eclipsed." 
But Williams didn't sen it 

that way, even if' she hasn't 
hnPn past the quarterlinals at 
tho past six Grand Slam tour­
nanwnts. 
"I fool like that was one I 
An idea that's really taken off. 
At GE, we believe in the power of ideas. Ideas that not only hove created the GE 90, the world's most powerful jet engine. but hove continued to propel countless aircraft through the skies. 
We invite you to come power your ideas at GE. We offer careers in Communications. Engineering. Finance, Human Resources, IT and Soles &Marketing. gecareers.com/notredame An Equal Opportunity Employer 
Come visit the GE booth to learn more about all our exciting career opportunities. 
Winter Career & Internship Fair 
January 26th, 4-8 PM Joyce Center Field House -North Dome 
• imagination at work 

definitely should have won. I blamed for this loss. just was off of my rhythm," At times, she showed the eighth-seeded Williams glimpses of grace _ a leaping said. "I definitely didn't pro­overhead winner in the l'ifth duce my best tennis, that's for game of the second set was a sure." prime example. But Williams 
She made 28 unforced clearly wasn't at her best. She nrrors. two more swatted at one of than the 1Oth-Molik's looping 
seeded Molik, "/just was o.ffmy forehands as if it 
who faces top­were an irritating
rhythm. I definitely 
ran ked Lindsay insect, missing Davenport in the didn't produce my tho ball twice quarterfinals. best tennis, that's before it landed Davenport behind her.
for sure." 
cruised past No. "This is a huge 13 Karolina feat; I beat Sprem 6-2. 6-2 Venus Williams Venus," said and has dropped tennis player Molik, the singles 
just one set in four matches. 
Williams insists she's just as competitive now in big match­es as she was when she won the 2001 U.S. Open final for the last of her four major titlns. 
"/\bsolutnly!" she said. A string of injuries that ham­pnrnd hnr last year couldn't be 

bronze medalist 
at the Athens Olympics. "I beat her playing my tennis, and I didn't wait for her to make mistakes, and that's something I can be pret­ty proud of." 
Molik is tho first Australian woman in tho Open quarterf'i­nals sinen Anne Minter in 19RR. 
WORLDWIDE PARTNER 

Two other top women lost: Andre Agassi. French Open champion The third-seeded Myskina Anastasia Myskina and No. 6 had 45 unforeod errors in lwr Elena Dementieva, the runner­6-4, 6-2 loss to No. IIJ up at the French Open and Nathalin Deehy, a 25-year-old 
U.S. Open. In men's action, Frenchwoman in tho quarter­No. 2 Andy Hoddick, No. 3 l'inals of a major for the first Lleyton llewitt, limn in 37 No. 9 David appnarancns.
"/ actually had
Nalbandian and "I eouldn't foeus No. 26 Nikolay during tho mateh.
a little trouble Davydenko getting used to a I lost a lot of' easy moved into the balls," Myskina
serve coming from 
quarterl1nals. said. "I think I 
Myskina and a right, as weird as havo to forgot this Dementieva were that sounds." match." among seven I>ernentieva lnd Hussians to make 12th-seeded Patty
Andy Roddick
it to the round of Sehnyder by a set 
tennis player
16, but only and two broaks 
Wimbledon champion Maria Sharapova and U.S. Open titlist Svetlana Kuznetsova reached the quar­terfinals. They will face each other on Tuesday, when men's No. 1 seed Hoger Federer will try to keep his 25-mateh win­ning streak alive against four­time Australian OpPn winner 
A diversified technology, financial services, media company. 


before losing h-7 (6), 7-6 (4). (J-2 in a match marred by I 16 unforend nrTors. 
Williams lost 13 games through thrnn straight-sPt wins beforo facing Molik and thought she was in dPennl form. 
"I would cl!~f'initnly say that when I'm playing well, I fenl like I'm the best. And today was not my best, ahsolulldy not my best," Williams said. "I wasn't hitting it eloanly enough. I felt I i kn my movn­nwnt wasn't as good as tlw previous rounds." AskPd if Molik can win tlw title, Williams said slw'd likP 
·­
to think her younger sister. Serena. could gnl. in the way. 
"You know, it's out of my hands now," Williams said. "I kind of want Serena to win. So that's my horse now." 
Hoddick struggled with thn serve of Germany's Philipp Kohlschreibor but smacked 15 aens and overcame a second­set lntdown to win (J-3, 7-h 
(R). 6-1. 

"I actually had a little trou­ble getting used to a serve coming from a righty, as weird as that sounds," said Hoddiek, who opened with matches against three straight lert­handers. "Took me a littiP whiln to gnt on it." 
lie next facos l>avydonko, who lwat No. 12 Guillermo Canas (J-:~. (J-4, h-:~. 
Against the I 02nd-ranknd Kohlschrnibor, l!oddi1~k was nrratie in the sncond snt, dou­bling his unfon:nd nrrors to 12 and throwing his raeknt to llw court aftnr s1~rHiing a fon~hand long. 
"I don't think I hit tlw hall as d1~an as I did in the first thnw rnatchns," lw said. "I just fnlt likn I was lighting it a litlln bit rnor·P. I'm not too eoneerrwd. The good thing is I don't fnnl like I had my best day, and we'rn horn talking about a throe-set win." 
llnwitt overcanw a sore right hip to boat unsond1~d Hafanl Narlal 7-5, 3-h, 1-(J, 7-6 (3), h-2. 
llewitt said the hip, injured at a warmup tournament in Sydnny. should not al'foct him in his next m a td1, against Nalbandian in a rematch of tho 2002 Wimbledon l'inal. Nalbandian beat No. 6 Guillnrmo Coria 5-7, 7-5, 6-3, 6-0 in an all-Argentine base­linn strugglo that went about :3 1/2 hours and ended just after 2 a.m. loeal time Tunsday. 
Trying to linish points quick­ly to limit his movement, llewitt eommittod five eonsec­utivn errors in thn fourth set aftor going ahoad 0-40 while holding a 3-2 lnad. 
Tuesday, January 25, 2005 
page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS 
NCAA WoMEN's BASKETBALL 


No. 12 Tar Heels upset top-ranked Blue Devils 
After 12 straight losses to nemesis in ACC, UNC triumphs 56-51 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. -For a change, North Carolina made Duke look rattled, and not even a spectacular indi.vidual effort by Monique Currie was enough to save the top-ranked Blue Devils. 
Leah Metcalf had a pair of clutch baskets and Ivory Latta sealed it with two free throws in the final seconds, helping the 12th-ranked Tar Heels end nearly five years of misery in this Tobacco Road "We knew they . rivalry with a 56­

were going to go

51 victory Mon­
to Currie down the

day night. North Carolina stretch. She,s a (15-3, 3-2 
great, great 

Atlantic Coast 
player.,

Conference) snapped a 12­game losing Sylvia Hatchell streak in the 
Duke coach 

series by limiting Duke (18-2, 4-1) to a season-low point total, which included only 13 in the first half. That was two more than the school record set against Maryland in the 1981 Atlantic Coast Conference tournament. 
The loss ended the nation's longest winning streak at 16 games, and it was the first win for the Tar Heels in 20 tries against a top-ranked team. 
"Their pressure really both­ered us, their traps," Duke coach Gail Goestenkors said. "We didn't do a good job adjusting. The tougher team won, and they played tough. They were the aggressor for the most part." 
Latta led North Carolina with 13 points, and Nikita Bell and La'Tangela Atkinson added 12 apiece. 
Currie, held to two points in the first half, scored 1 7 of her 24 in a 5 1/2-minute span down the stretch. She made two free throws with 1:42 left to cut the Tar Heels' lead to 53-51. 
Later, after Metcalf missed a 3-pointer, Duke's Alison Bales clanged two free throws off the rim that would have tied it, and Latta, the smallest player on the court at 5-foot-6, came up with the rebound. She con­

. verted both shots from the line to increase the margin to four, and the Blue Devils missed their final three shots. 
Atkinson added another free throw with 10 seconds left to account for the final score. 
"Beating the No. 1 team, and it's Duke?" Bell said. "It's a double victory for me. I'm real excited." 
Jessica Foley had 13 points for the Blue Devils, who hadn't lost to North Carolina since Feb. 27. 2000. Freshman point guard Wanisha Smith had a miserable night, missing all seven shots and finishing with eight turnovers. 
The Tar Heels took control from the start. In the first half, they held Duke to 5-for-30 shooting (17 percent) and without a basket for the final 
6:52 to take a 26-13 lead. The margin still was 15 points mid­way through the second half 
after Bell's steal and subsequent layup, but Currie was just getting started. 
"We knew they were going to go to Currie down the stretch," North Carolina coach Sylvia Hatchell said. "She's a great, great player." 
After a 3-point­
er by Foley cut North Carolina's lead to 10, Currie swished one of her own, added two free throws and a jumper before Metcalf's first big bas­ket, a 3-pointer, made it 46-38. 
Boston College 92, Providence 4 7 
Kathrin Ress scored 19 points and Brooke Queenan added 13 to lead No. 14 Boston College to a victory over Providence. 
Ress made eight of 11 shots and added five rebounds for the Eagles (14-2, 5-0 Big East). They forged a 42-1 7 halftime advantage with a 28-0 run that began after the Friars got a 3-point basket in the opening seconds. 
The Friars (1-16, 0-6 Big East) shot a dismal 29.2 per­cent in the first half, failing to score for a stretch of 12:50. 
Boston College built on its lead with a 17-9 spurt to open the second half. The Eagles enjoyed their largest lead of the night at 43 points late in the game. 
Shauna Snyder hit five of 10 3-point shots in pacing the Friars with 17 points. Jill Furstenburgh added 14 for the losers. 
Aja Parham added 12 points in just 13 minutes for the Eagles . 
Boston College's previous high output this season came on Dec. 4 in a 90-63 win over Northeastern. 

Providence committed 18 turnovers. Florida State 81, Virginia Tech 78 
Gladden scored 24 points and converted a threepoint play with 2:18 remaining in the second overtime, allowing No. 21 Florida State to hang on for a8 victory over Virginia Tech. 
The Seminoles (18-2. 5-1 Atlantic Coast Conference), playing their third consecutive overtime game, forced the sec­ond extra session when LaQuinta Neely made a layup in the final second of the first to tie it at 72. 
Virginia Tech (12-5, 2-3) tied it at 62 with 39 seconds left in regulation on Kerri Gardin's putback, producing the ninth 
tie  of  the  back-and-forth  
game.  
Before it  was  over, there  

were 18 ties and 14 lead changes. 
Roneeka Hodges also scored 24 points for Florida State. Ganiyat Adeduntan added 11 and Neely had 10 points and nine rebounds. Gladden also grabbed nine rebounds. 
Gardin had 22 points and 16 
Semester Aro Wo 
rebounds to pace the Hokies, lead, Chriss hit a jumper with who never led in the second 1:58 left and Copeland made a extra period. Kirby Copeland free throw with 1:07 to go. added 15 points and Dawn Holly Johnson then sealed it Chriss 14. for the Seminoles, making a 
After Gladden's free throw pair of free throws with 19 
gave Florida State a 79-7 5 seconds left. 
Saturday, January 29, 2005 2:00pm 
Meets in the Pro Shop in Rockne Memorial 
Cost is $10.00-Includes Rental 
Register in advance at RecSports. Registration begins January 24, 2005 @8:00a.m. 
Must have Notre Dame J.D. 
Clinic open to all N.D. students, faculty/staff, retirees, and their spouses. For more information call1-6100 or visit recsports.nd.edu 
Program 

INFORMATIONAL MEETING--LAST CALL! 

Monday, January 24th, 6:oop.m. Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall, Saint Mary's OR Wednesday, January 26th, 6:15p.m. in Hesburgh Library Auditorium, ND Excellent academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin, India. focusing on the Asian world. 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements. Opportunity for travel and study in many countries of the Far East, Southeast Asia, South Asia, Eastern Europe and Western Europe. Semester Around the World Program (574)284-4468 or 4473, Fax (574)284-4866 or (574)273-5973 Email pullapil@saintmarys.edu; http:/jwww.saintmarys.edu 
rf10: . .?~ .,~ ..nr.l .nL. ,,;r ITS!• ~(,) .fl. . ' f ''YI"J; 'l[rcsday, January 25, 2005 The-Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Eagles ready for tough game 

After finally bringing 
home the NFC title, 
Philadelphia prepares for Jacksonville trip 
A~snciatcd Press 
I'IIII.ADEI.I'IIIA -The eeln­
hrations hardly worn muted in 
l'hiladnlphia. Fans stood atop 
snow banks on Broad Street, 
waving Eagles bannnrs and hats. 
Cars honked tlwir horns Jato into 
tho evening. Toasts were raised 
to Donovan McNabb, Brian 
Dawkins, Andy Hnid -oven to 
Swoop tho mascot. 
For the first timn in 24 yoars, 
tho J~aglns are NFC champions. 
It's not nearly nnough. 
"Then~ worn somo tears of joy, dolinitnly," All-l'ro saf'nty Brian Dawkins said Monday, looking hack at tho locker room semw following Sunday's 27-10 victory ovnr tlw Atlanta Faleons. Arter thnH~ straight title game flops. the Eagles wert~ !waded fi1r tho Super Bowl. 
"It's somnthing we worked for 
a long time and wont through a 
lot of bad situations -1-2-3 of 
losing -so that comes flowing 
out," Dawkins said. "Arter the 
tears have enased, we're ready 
for the nnxt stop. This wasn't 
our Super Bowl. We didn't 
approach it likn it was our Supor 
Bowl." 
And thny won't approach tlw 
rwxt two wonks as anything but 
businoss. 
"Wn didn't do what we set out 
to do ynt," Dawkins said. "I havn 
a lot of eonlidnnee we'll win." 
Beating tho dnfending champi­
on Nnw England Patriots, win­
rwrs of two of tho last thrnn Nrl. 
crowns, will take the very best a long gap between Super Bowl tho Eagles have to ofl'er. But they appearances was Green Bay. won't bring their full comple­Tho Packers won tho first two ment ofl'onsively. Tight end Chad Super Bowls, then didn't return Lewis, who caught two touch­until January 1997, when they down passes against Atlanta, is beat the Patriots. out with a fi)()t injury. And star Eagles eoach Andy Heid was receiver Terrell Owens, their an assistant to Mike llolmgren offnnsive spark plug, is uncer­with those Packers. lie still has tain because of an ankle injury his notes from that postseason, that has kept him sidolinnd since but he hadn't looked at thorn Gamn14. again until Monday. 
What they will bring, the play­"It's a little different sitting ers swear. is the right attitude. thnre as head coach, but it still is No way will they fall into the a groat fooling," said Heid, hired trap of premature by the Eagles in satisfaction that 1999. "Part of hurt past Super you is excited,
"The ultimate goal 
Bowl teams such another part of
is obviously the 
as tho 1998 you understands Falcons, 1994 Super Bowl. Then you're not Chargers and through. There's
we can come back 
1985 Patriots. another game
and celebrate in a
Those dubs were against a great happy to be parade on Broad football team and there, and they you want to get
Street." 
got routnd by yourself right in superior oppo­preparation for 
Donovan McNabb
nents. that team." 
Nnw England Eagles quarterback The Eagles lost might be the 27-10 to the superior team Haiders in their 
this time -it's favored by sovon only Super Bowl trip. The points -but the Eagles promise Haiders broke a 19-year Super they will give it their all. No awe Bowl drought two seasons back, at tho surroundings and no wor­but th11y were routed by Tampa shipping at the Patriots' shrine. Bay in tho big game. 
"The ultimate goal is obviously McNabb was there. lie's beon the Super Bowl," MeNabb said. to the last five Super Bowls, and "Then we ean eome baek and he hasn't exaetly enjoyed them. eelnhratn in a parade on Broad "It's frustrating, because every Strnnt. conversation is: 'I expected you 
"We're exeited about this win guys to be here,"' McNabb said. and the eity having that confi­"Well! did, too. dent feeling baek. It's a groat "Now we can go down there feeling to have the opportunity and have all our people smiling to movo to the Super Bowl. and you're happy you're there. Whon it comes down to it, hey, But playing tho game is some­it's one more game. Let's go win thing difl'orent. It's keeping that it." business mind-set of going out 
The only other team with sueh and winning the game." 

"··
m()ne~••• 

Are you ready to manage $275,000


?? .;.. 
of real money,~~-;,~ •~>~ 
' '~~ \.'1''/~ 
·~· 

we think:so! 
-;\ 
" ~\ 


Join The Investment 6lub,the one and only place were you can learn and practice how to make money from other,people's businesses. 
:·. . 
" 

Everyone regardlesstof experience and major is welcome. 
·~. 

·~·, l:·~·,, Informational Meeting: ~·Wednesday, January 26 
:!f 

~'7:30PM 
DeBartolo 129 
CLUB SPORTS 




Skiiers dominate Cleveland races 
Irish women take 
seven of top nine 
spots; all men Jznish in top 15 
Special to The Observer 

In what was originally 
thought to be a rebuilding 
year for Notre Dame, the Ski 
Team traveled to Cleveland 
this weekend and dominated 
the competition in the Ohio 
Division. 

In the Saturday Slalom, 
every Irish woman racer fin­
ished in the top 9, with Notre 
Dame taking seven of those 
spots. Molly Butler and 
Dannielle Clements finished 
first and seeond, respectively. 
Lindsay May and Captain 
Lauren Dacey aceomplished 
oven more for the tfHtm, fin­
ishing fourth and fifth. 
In tho men's competition, 
freshman surprise Steve 
Fuetz edged out Captain Jon 
Payne with a blistering sncond 
run as they finished fifth and 
sixth. Finishing in eighth and 
ninth with fast runs were 
Casey Dunne and Maria 
Destino. Senior Jason Luecht 
had two solid runs to finish in 
seventh place. The men's 
toam had every finisher 
between fifth and fifteenth 
plaee. Among those finishers 
were Brad Jolitz, Aaron 
Medlock, Bill Leimkuehler, 
Sean Glonnan, and Loif' Erie 
Petterson. 

On Sunday, in the Giant 
Slalom, the women's toarn 
continued to assert their 
superiority. Molly Butler and Danielle Clements again fin­ished in first and second plaeo. Froshman plwnom Sarah Haunnhorst finished in third, leaving no ambiguity as to whieh tnam at this race was tlw best. 
Lindsay May and Lauren Dacny again raend wnll, fin­ishing in fifth and sixth plaen. lnspirnd by the wonwn's pnr­formance, the men's team fol­lowed up with several mor<~ impressive rnsults. 
Arter a dose first run. tho top seven racers worn sepa­rated by less than half a sec­ond, with Notre Dame being represented by three of' thorn. Joe Payne lnd the team with a fourth plaeo f'inish. Luneht and Andrew Bn1slin finishml sixth and seventh rounding out the team scoring. 
In a new dnvelopment f'or the team this year, a small contingent of snowboardnrs aecom paniod the ski team for eompntition. The team start­ed ofT wnll, with Nieholn Mitehnll finishing third in the women's slalom and freshman Nick Cottingham finishing soc­ond in tho men's slalom. 
On Sunday's Grand Slalom courso all snowboarders had excellent runs. ineluding Cat Dunno and Emily Williams for tho women, and Tim lluml. Dan VanDnrWerff. and James "Sunshine" Welwr for the men. 
Compnting schools included Ohio State, John Carroll, Kent State, Akron, and Cineinnati. For the next four weeks, the team will be traveling to the mountains of Michigan to f'aen stiffer competition from tlw Miehigan Division. 


te Sports. 
111-4543. 
C'arnpus Bible Studies 
with Fr. Frank Za11;orc, c.s.c. 
Tuesdays, 7:30-8:30 pm Starting January 25 316 Coleman-l\1orse Center 
Th1s semes1er th~ :;rudi<"'s "ill conc(~nlml'' on the (k,;;pclvi'St. :\1a1t:ht'""s. All are wclcom.:. 
.. 
AROUND THE NATION 
page 16 CoMPlLED FROM THE ()ssERVER'S wmE SERVICES Tuesday, January 25, 2005 
Men's College Basketball Polls 

COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

AP 
team 
1 Illinois. 2 Duke 3 North Carolina 
4 Syr~cuse 
5 Wake Forest 6 Kansas 7 Kentucky 8 Boston College 9 Oklahoma State 10 Washington 11 Arizona 12 Louisville 13 Oklahoma 14 Alabama 15 Michigan State 16 Texas 17 Gonzaga 18 Wisconsin 19 Connecticut 20 Pittsburgh 21 Cincinnati 22 Georgia Tech 23 Iowa 24 Mississippi State 25 Utah 
Coaches 
team 
Illinois 1 Duke 2 North carolln a 3 Syracuse 4 Wake Forest 5 Kentucky 6 Kansas 7 Boston College 8 Oklahoma Stale 9 Washington 10 Arizona 11 louisville 12 Michigan State 13 Texas 13 Oklahoma 15 Connecticut 16 Alabama 17 Pittsburgh 18 Wisconsin 19 Cincinnati 20 Georgia Tech 21 Mississippi State 22 Gonzaga 23 Iowa 24 Utah 25 
Women's College Basketball AP Top 25 
team record points 
1 Duke (31) 18·2 1,158 2 LSU (14) 18·1 1,093 3 Ohio State 19-2 1,026 4 Stanford 17·2 983 5 Tennessee 14·3 941 6 NOTRE DAME 16~3 834 7 Baylor 13-3 812 8 Rutgers 13·4 783 9 Connecticut 12·4 726 10 Minnesota 16·3 725 11 Michigan State 16·3 688 12 North Carolina 15·3 667 13 Texas Tech 14-3 558 14 Boston College 13·2 524 15 Texas 10·6 16 Kansas Slate 14-3 17 DePaul 15-3 18 Iowa Stale 15•1 19 Georgia 15·5 20 Maryland 13-4 21 florida State 17·2···· 22 Penn Slate 12•6 23 Vanderbilt 13·5 

. ..:Jir.·(;·:
24 Temple 15·3 25 North Carolina State 15·4 
MIAA Women's Basketball Conference Standings 
team MIAA. overall 
Albion 8·1 16·2 Calvin 7·1 13·2 Hope 7·1 14·2 Kalamazoo 3·5 8•9 SAINT MARY'S 3·5 8·9 Tri-State 3·5 5·11 Alma 2·6 7-7 Olivet 2·6 .. 7•9 Adrian 2·7 5•11 
Associated Press 

ILLINOIS -Illinois is No. 1 in The Associated Press college basketball poll for an eighth consecutive week, earning all but one first-place vote. That ballot was cast for the new No. 2 team: Duke. 
The Blue Devils (15-0) moved up two spots to second, replacing Kansas (14-1), which dropped to sixth following its 83-62 loss at Villanova on Saturday. The Jayhawks fell below No. 2 for the first time this season. 
The Illini (19-0) received all but one of the 72 first-place votes from the national media panel Monday. The last unanimous No. 1 was Duke. which did it nine times in a 10-week span in 2001-02. 
The Blue Devils have reached No. 1 for seven straight seasons. Should 
IN BRIEF 

NHL, players' association continue lockout discussions 
NEW YORK -The NHL and the players' association will resume talks this week in a bid to save the season -and they'll meet yet again without commissioner Gary Bettman or union head Bob Goodenow. 
"The league contacted our office to arrange for continued small-group discussions. We agreed to_ this request," players' association senior director Ted Saskin said Monday. 
The sides met twice last week with· out Bettman and Goodenow. Those meetings, over two days in Chicago and Toronto, were initiated by Vancouver Canucks center Trevor Linden, the NHLPA president. 
Linden, Saskin and outside counsel John McCambridge represented the players. NHL chief legal officer Bill Daly, Calgary Flames part-owner Harley Hotchkiss, and outside coun­sel Bob Batterman took part for the league. 
The sides had hoped to sit down in Duke unseat Illinois and extend that streak to eight. it would still be four behind UCLA's record that started in 1963. Duke received 1.704 points. 95 behind Illinois and 130 more than North Carolina, which jumped from sixth to third. 
Utah (16-3) was the lone newcomer to the poll this week, moving in at No. 25 and replacing Marquette, which lost two games last week. 
Illinois, which beat Iowa at home in overtime in its only game last week, will play at No. 18 Wisconsin on Tuesday night. The Badgers (13-3) have the nation's longest home win­ning streak at 38 games. That is one of six games involving two ranked teams this week. 
Syracuse moved from seventh to fourth. one spot in front of Wake Forest, which fell two places follow­ing its overtime loss at Florida State. 
secrecy. But word got out Monday that, just like last week. the same representatives from each side will meet in Toronto on Wednesday.Eagles lose Lewis to injury 
PHILADELPHIA The Philadelphia Eagles' thin receiving corps has lost another key member, and whether its star makes it back for the Super Bowl is still uncertain. 
Tight end Chad Lewis, who caught two touchdown passes in Philadelphia's 27-10 victory over Atlanta in the NFC championship game Sunday, will miss the Super Bowl with a foot injury. 
Meanwhile, All-Pro wide receiver Terrell Owens' status is uncertain. Owens has been sidelined with an ankle injury since Dec. 19. Eagles coach Andy Reid said Monday that Owens has made "great progress," and will try to run on the ankle this week. 
Lewis, a three-time Pro Bowl selection, will have surgery on Wednesday. He was hurt on his sec· 
Kansas was No. 1 in the preseason poll and the first Top 25 of the regu­lar season. then was No. 2 for nine straight weeks. 
Kentucky was seventh. while Boston College (16-0), the only other unbeaten in Division I beside Illinois and Duke, was eighth, up one place from last week. 
Oklahoma State, which lost at Texas early last week. dropped four spots to No. 9. Washington was 10th for the second straight week, the Huskies' first appearances in the Top Ten since December 1984. 
Arizona led the second 10 and was followed by Louisville, Oklahoma. Alabama, Michigan State, Texas, Gonzaga. Wisconsin, Connecticut and Pittsburgh. 
The last five ranked teams were Cincinnati. Georgia Tech. Iowa, Mississippi State and Utah. 
ond TO grab, a 2-yard catch that sealed the win. Pacers' Artest returns to 
practice court 

INDIANAPOLIS -Ron Artest prac­ticed with the Indiana Pacers on Monday for the first time in over two months since he was suspended for fighting with Detroit fans. 
Artest did not comment as he left the practice court at Conseco Fieldhouse, but teammates and coach Rick Carlisle said his presence gave the struggling Pacers a much­needed lift. 
"Having a guy like Ron in practice helps raises the level of practice in terms of intensity because he's one of the real warrior-type players we have in this league," Carlisle said. 
Commissioner David Stern sus­pended the All-Star for the remain­der of the season after he bolted into the stands at The Palace on Nov. 19 and exchanged punches with Pistons fans, who showered Artest and the rest of the Pacers with debris. 
around the dial 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Kentucky at Tennessee 7 p.m., ESPN Georgia at Florida 7 p.m., ESPN2 Illinois at Wisconsin 9 p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS 2005 Australian Open 2 p.m., ESPN2 


Tuesday, January 25, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Duals 
continued from page 20 
i\djnmian Wl'nt H-2 and frnsh­man Grng lloward compilnd a 7­2 rneord for thn Irish npen hrigadn. 
"I was nienly surprisnd by the PJH~Pist-;," BPdnarski said. 
Sophomorn sabrn Matt Stearns playnd wnll for tlw Irish, defeat­ing i\11-i\rnnrican i\lnxandor Krull. Tlw Irish lwld to a narrow I I-1J margin hPI'orn thrm~ consec­ul.ivn wins hy lloward, frnshman lirilist Dingo ()uinorwz and sopho­morn npnnisl Patrick (;nllings sneurml a vidory lilt' tlw squad. 
i\llnr cruising to vidorios of 22­!'i ovnr Nnw York Univnrsity and 24-:{ ovor Stanford, tiH~ Irish womPn strugglnd against the l.ions for tlw sanw rnason that tho nwn tr·iumphml ovnr thnm­llw npnn. Columbia's i\11­i\nwrkan ~~pl'nist sw1~pt thn Irish, and thn Irish won only one bout out of ninn in thn npnn on tlwir way to losing 16-11. The loss endod a 41-match win strnak for the Irish, who couldn't gain back the ground lost on the epee. During the match, freshman Olympic Gold M1Hialist Marie! Zagunis lost her first match as a collegian, falling to Olympic b~<unnmtn Emily Jacobson. 
"They knew each other very well," B1~dnarski said of' the Team USA tnarnmatns. 
Bednarski was very pleasnd in Zagunis, who won her other 10 matches, for how she performed both with and without her sabre in hand. 
"Not only greatness makes somebody useful in a team. lntnraetion with friends land teammatosl made her first timo with the team so positive," he said. "She was able to keep group tognther by showing exam­ple for others despite being a freshman." 
Zitgunis eertainly performed well in the highlight match of' the duals, when the Irish faced the No. I Buckeyes, sweeping her thrcn bouts. Senior All-i\meriean foilists Alicia Krczalo and Andrea /\mont had strong showings, each winning their first two bouts against Ohio State and going 11­1 and 10-2 overall, respectively. 

The Irish were in a good posi­tion going into the end of the match, needing to win only one of' the last three bouts to win. llowever, Metta Thomson beat Ament and her twin, IIanna, del'nated Krezalo before Kaela Brendler beat senior epeeist Kerry Walton in the final bout. 
Despite thnir suecess the rest of the day, the men were beaten quiekly by Ohio State. The Buckeyes got the mateh-dinching 14th point while the Irish had only 3 points before cruising to the final 16-11 victory. The epneists again were impressive, posting a 6-3 mark inducting a 3­bout sweep by Adjemian, but the sabres and foilists both.struggled to 2-7 finishes in the match. 
While the leaders of' his team performed well, Bednarski was disappointed with the results of some of the down thn bench !{meers. 

"Our backup fencers were too nervous to control the situation," he said. 
After the Duals. Bednarski snes his teams' high ranking as both a strong starting point as well as something to improve on. 
"We should oscillate up rather than down," hn said. "It-; lal prnt­ty top position to bn fourth, but tho dream of 1mch athletn and the drnam of each coach is to bn lirst." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

LaVere 
continued from page 20 
for nine points on 4-for-8 shooting and pulled down live rnbounds in 25 minutes. Slw ITndits hnr improvml pnrforrn­arH~I~S to extra limn in tlw gym. 
"I n1wdnd to gnt morn in thn rhythm," l.aVPrn said. "I wasn't practking that rnurh wlwn I was coming back for the games, but or11~n I practi1~nd morP, I know thn rhythm of thn gaiiH' and tlw llow. OrH~n I get out tlwn~ it's morn natural to 

rebounds in 22 minutes ol' action. 
But LaVere said her role coming off the bench hasn't fazed her. 
"It's an adjustment, but Crystal's doing a great job out thorn," LaVern said. ''I'm work­ing my way back into the line­up, and I'm going to do every­thing in pradicn that I can to show I'm ready." 
So is La Vern 100 pereent yet? "In the 90s," LaVnrn said. "But I'm getting there." 
come to an info meeting: 

i\nd with her reeent pnrform­anees, the Irish are glad to
THURS., JAN .Z7, 6TO 8 PM 

have her back.
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Contact Heather Van Hoegarden 
at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
QUICKEN LOANS MAKES IT EASY TO 
PUT IN THE 
PIC 

WITH A CAREER ATONE OF FORTUNE BEST COMPANIES TO WORKFOR. 
COME TALK TO...QUIC 
THE JOYCE AT 
rnn." movement that I'm still trying 
l.aVnre was also seen Sunday to get baek." beating the Hutgnrs posts down Sinee her return, LaVere has the floor consistently. She ran yet to earn baek her spot in the well for a post, not starting. to mention some­However, in her one fresh ofT knee "Really, it's more absenee and dur­
surgery. bilateral movement ing her first "I l'e e I Iike if I games back,
that I'm still trying 
can use some of sophomore my spend to an to get back. " Crystal Erwin has advantage with stepped up in the other posts run­starting role.
Courtney LaVere 
ning the l'loor, I Erwin had 24
Irish forward 
really don't have points Dec. 11 any problem run-against ning thn l'loor," she said. Washington on 9-for-9 shoot­"Heally, it's more bilateral ing, and just Sunday. she grabbed a team-high nine 
CLUB SPORTS 
Bowling, squash teams compete 
Special to The Observer 

Despite a winter blizzard that lim~od 16 teams to cancnl their trip to South Bend, Beacon Bowl hosted the 8th Blue & Gold Classic this week­end. Although two top-l 0 tearns were unable to travel, six others compnted in a lield of 48 men's and women's squads. In mnn's play, third­ranked Kansas took tlw titln, l'ollowod by 13th ranked Nebraska, l'ourth-ranknd Wiehita State, No. 1 Saginaw Valley, and II th ranked Lindenwood. Teams such as Arizona Stat11, represented much of the country. 
The Irish worn ranknd 20th al'ter the lirst day of' com peti­tion, but !'ell to 33rd on Sunday, when two Irish starters were unable to bowl. Van Koppersmith and Vancn MeCienton led the dub, with strong showings by .lim Talamo, Marcus Hadley, and Niek Mainieri. .I B Bnrturnen and Tom Talamo stepped in admirably on Sunday. 
Kim LaVigne paced tlw women's squad, with Allison Klein and Mary Boeik also posting top scores lirr t.he Irish. Katie llunt, Denise Trgovkh and Daninlln LaFramboisP roundml out thn top live lirr tho wnnkond. Tho young squad finislwd last in thn finld. with Wichita State, Nnwman College, Westnrn Illinois, McKendree, and Lindenwood daiming the top live spot-;. 
Squash 

Notrn DiLilw's squash 1~lub eompntnd in tlw CS/\ Big I 0 championships this wn1~knrHI at Illinois. Tlw Irish won tlwir opening round against thn host Illlini, H-1. Thn win nwnrsnd a <J-0 loss one ynar ago in which tlw Irish didn't. win a singln game. .lanws Zhang and Mikn c;olinas swnpt to a pair of' :{-0 wins at the top two spots to pace thn Irish. Mikn McConnnll droppml his match at No. 3 in thn linn-up, whiln the rest of' thn squad -Phil Moss, Alfonso Bosch, .loses Palomo, Eric Sabnlhaus, Handy Hainosek and (iabriel Lntona -were victorious l'rom !'our through nino. Moss trailml 8-0 in his opening ganw bnforP rallying to tie tlw scorn. I lis opponent called snt two, and Moss again li11l bohind doubln game point, bnl'oro coming bark firr a 10-IJ win. 
In the SIH~ond round. the Irish fell to 25th ranhd Northwnstnrn. IJ-0. It W<L<; not without a struggle however, <L<; b1~st. nvidenced in Frnshman Calinas' loss at No. 2 to tlw Wildcat-;' Pnter Kamm, IJ-!'i, IJ­5, 7-9, (>-9, I0-IJ, in thn high­light match of tlw t.ournanwnt. 
The third match of' thn day was a disappointing (>-3 loss to Purdue. Tlw Boilermakers were a much lh1slwr squad. having only pla.ynd onn match narlim· in tho day. Zhang and Cnlinas again took thnir matdws at tlw top of thn linn­up, and Latona won at nino. 
The Irish will next l'acn Kenyon this Saturday af'ter­noon. The matd1 is tentatively scheduled l'or the Hockne court-;. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, January 25, 2005 
Rated 71st nationally at cornerback, McCarthy is not

CoD101its 
the high-profile recruit that continued from page 20 Zbikowski was coming out of 
high school. He turned down 

the place for me. Ohio State to come to Notre McCarthy is the latest verbal Dame with Navy, commitment in the 2005 Irish Northwestern and Toledo also recruiting class, bringing the making scholarship offers. He total to 14 players. He is the is a two-star recruit (out of a lone cornerback commit so possible five) by Scout.com. far. McCarthy's older brother is 
At Cardinal Mooney High a current junior at Notre School, the 6-foot-1, 190-Dame. However, he said his pound. McCarthy played both commitment had nothing to do quarterback and defensive with family connections. back. He had "It's great to 1800 yards of have my broth­
"Being on campus

total offense his er there," senior season, . with all the tradition McCarthy said. 
1100 rushing and the people at "But for me 

and 700 pass­personally,
Notre Dame, I just

ing, while lead­Notre Dame ing his team to felt like this was the was just the 
the state cham­place for me. " best fit." 
pionship. Another fac­Timed at 4.4 tor in 
Kyle McCarthy 

seconds in the M c C art h.y 's 40-yard dash, Irish commit decision was he used that Irish coach speed to return Charlie Weis. two interceptions and three "I talked to Coach Weis a lot punts for touchdowns. during the recruitment," 
"Notre Dame is looking at McCarthy said. "I am really [McCarthy! as a cornerback excited to be a part of what he but I expect him to really is doing at Nqtre Dame." make his mark on special McCarthy intends to play teams," Mike Frank of baseball for his high school lrisheyes.com said. "He is a this spring. Then it's off to similar player to [current Irish South Bend, where he might free safety] Tom Zbikowski in be playing for a coach who that he likes to hit." has just won his fourth Super 
Banquet 
continued from page 20 
Astros closer Brad Lidge at the Feb. 10 event in the Joyce Center. 
"We're very fortunate to have two people of the stature of Brad Lidge and Roger Clemens eome to Notre Dame and help us kkkofl' our season," Mainieri said. 
The dinner will feature classic ballpark foods, such as hot dogs and nachos, to complement guest speakers and player intro­ductions. This year's banquet is sold out, with over 1,700 tickets going in just two weeks. The event sold out in six weeks last year. 
At the 2004 dinner, best-sell­ing author and baseball fan John Grisham gave a speech to the audience. Former Los Angeles Dodgers 
later. 
Lidge was the 1998 Big East Pitcher of the Year before being selected 17th overall by the Astros in the draft. He made his Major League debut in 2002, but only pitehed in six games that season. Lidge had an impressive 2003, going 6-3 with 
3.60 ERA, and he became one of the top relief' pitchers in base­ball midway through the 2004 season when Houston dealt then-closer Octavio Dote! to the Oakland Athletics -ultimately making Lidge the new closer. He didn't disappoint, saving 29 games and tallying a miniscule 
1.90 ERA. Lidge also broke the National League record for most strikeouts in a season by a relief pitcher with 157 in 94 2/3 innings of work. 
In the playoffs, Lidge com­pletely dominated the opposi­tion and was a major part of Houston's ride into the National League Championship Series against the St. Louis Cardinals. In 12 1/3 innings, Lidge allowed just one run and struck out 20 while walking only three. 
"I think Brad, in his own right, would have been a good enough headliner for us to get a great crowd and have a great evening. But to bring Roger Clemens in is something that's going to make the evening extra special," Mainieri said. 
Clemens, who recently signed a one-year, $18 million contract with Houston, is considered among the best pitchers ever to play the game. In his career, he has accumulated a remarkable number of awards and acco­lades. Clemens has 328 wins, a career ERA of just 3.18, 4,317 strikeouts and has pitched near­ly 4,500 innings during his 20­year career. At the age of 42 last season, Clemens went 18-4 


manager "To bring Roger Clemens with a 2.98 Tommy Lasorda ERA and won
in is something that's 

spoke in 2002 his record
going to make the

and Chicago seventh Cy Cubs general evening extra special." Y o u n g manager Jim Award, which llendry did the goes to the
Paul Mainieri 

same a year league's best
Irish coach 
pitcher. He 
has pitched 
for the Boston Red Sox, Toronto Blue Jays, New York Yankees and now the Astros. 
Mainieri asked Lidge to return to Notre Dame, where the pitch­er hadn't been since 1998 and speak at the dinner, and the pitcher quickly accepted. Then Mainieri had an idea. 
"We [were I going to send a plane [to Houston] to pick up Lidge," Mainieri said. "So I started thinking wouldn't it be something if we could bring Hoger Clemens up too. I knew he was a big Notre Dame foot­ball fan because I've seen him on the sidelines a couple of times during my 10 years here." 
Mainieri contacted a Notre Dame graduate who lives in the Texas area and is a close friend of Clemens. Soon enough, Clemens was asked and accept-Bowl ring. 

"Yeah, I plan on cheering for the Patriots," McCarthy said. After the firing of coach Tyrone Willingham, a handful of Irish verbal commitments decided to re-open their col­lege searches. One of the more highly-touted prospects to do this, wide receiver David Nelson, officially brol\e his ties with Notre Dame as he verbal­ly committed to Florida on Sunday. 
"It's official, we're Florida Gators," Roy Nelson, David's father, said Sunday morning to Gatorcountry.com before a meeting with Florida coach Urban Meyer. 
Nelson had 141 catches for 2,720 yards and 32 touch­downs in his last two years of high school. He is 6-foot-6 and 198 lbs. and played in the Army All-American Bowl ear­lier this month. 
The loss of Nelson leaves the Irish with verbal commitments from only two wide receivers in D.J. Hord and David Grimes. Martin Frierson, a wide receiver from Columbia, 
S. C., had verbally committed to the Irish in mid-September. He then de-committed after the Willingham firing and is now headed to Georgia Tech. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
ed the invitation. 
Now the only problem for the Notre Dame baseball program is finding someone to top Clemens for next season's din­ner. 
"This might have to be the last time we do it," Mainierijoked. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
MEN'S TRACK 
ND starts off season on right foot Saturday 
Numerous Irish shine in first home meet of 
2005indoorca~aign 
By JOHN EVERETT Sports Writer 
The men' track and field team's home opener proved to be a showcase for the many superb athletes on the Fighting Irish squad. Competing against runners f r o m Michigan State, Western Michigan, Loyola­Chicago and Hillsdale College, the 

Nurudeen
Irish showed signs of good things to come. 
The meet, a non-scoring event, was highlighted by the performance of senior Selim Nurudeen, certainly no stranger to the spotlight. Nurudeen took home first­place finishes in the 60-meter dash, the 200-meter dash and the 60-meter hurdles. Nurudeen and sophomore Tommie Lee combined to be a formidable 1-2 punch, as Lee finished right behind Nurudeen in the 60 and 200-meter dash­es. 
Several freshmen made impressive contributions in the meet, with Brett Adams win­ning the 800-meters in 1 minute, 54.19 seconds, just one-hundredth of a second in front of fellow freshman Jake Watson. Other stellar freshman performers included Robert Kueny, who won the 400-meter dash ih 50.13 and Austin Wecther, winner of the 500­meter dash in 1:04.62. 
Sophomore Kurt Benninger won the mile in a time of 
4:11.21. Afterward he was pleased both with his perform­ance and that of his team­mates. 
"It was a good first meet for the distance runners, and a good chance to see where we're at; also got to work on a few things race-wise," Benninger said. 
He was also optimistic for the indoor season. 
"It's shaping up pretty well," he said. "The Meyo Invitational is in two weeks. Our biggest home meet of the season before the Big East." 
Complementing the perform­ance if the Irish on the track were the noteworthy marks set by Notre Dame's field squad, which contributed four first­place finishes to the meet. Chip Roberts won the weight throw at 16.87m, and Chris Staron cleared 2.0lm to take the high jump. Justin Oppel won the pole vault at a height of 4.65m, and Michael Schubert was the victor of the shot put, with a throw of14.76m. 
The Irish will compete at home Saturday in the Notre Dame Invitational. 
Contact John Everett at jeverett@nd.edu 


DILBERT 

SCOTT ADAMS 
<.i 
THE A5TONI5HING uj .5 
LL
INCOMPETENCE OF ::::> > 50 .0
OTHEP-5 CAU5ED ME THEN,
'a!
TO JUMP THROUGH A NO
g
WINDOW AND LAND IN <.i I55UE5?
.5 
CHARLES SCHULZ 
TI-JE'( CAN1T DO SOMETHING TO YOU IF YOU DON'T 
S~E SAYS SI-IE MAY !-lAVE 
TO RESORJ TO CASTIGATION 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ 
Address __________~~----------------------­
City _____________ State ______ Zip_______ 
1 
l 
l 
l 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 

l
MIKE ARGIRION 
l 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
l 
~ 
I 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 

l 
TOORB 

l 
~
[J [] 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. AU Rights Reserved. 
GHILT 
I I I 
POUDIM 
WHAT THE FA?T­TALKING MEc.HANIC. ?EEMEC/ TO BE--­

[J
www.1umble.com 

I MOOGLY ± Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as
I (X J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: A 

·I x x x x J" r x x x x J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: POKED INEPT LUNACY FIESTA
Yesterday's 

Answer: An indifferent student can do this in astronomy class-TAKE UP "SPACE" 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEHRITIES HORN ON THIS DAY: Mischa Barton. 19; Tatyana Ali. 26; Mary Lou Retton, 37; Neil Diamond, (14 
Happy Birthday: Move in the direction of ihe least resistance this year and you won't find things nearly as diflicult as they have heen the past couple of years. The time for change is now. This is a turning point in your life, and you must allow yourself the freedom to do just that. Embrace the year ahead with optimism, hut do not stray from your usually conservative nature. Excess will continue to he the enemy. so keep things on a small scale. Your numbers are 4. 13, 27, 31. 
38,44 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't take things personally. You will excel if you arc congenial and do your best lo pull your own weight. Take care of your own business. Getting angry will hold you hack. "* TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Give it your best shol and you will accomplish more than you had hoped for. You can do no wrong today if you voice your opinion and follow through with your plan. Love is hot. ••••• GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): Like it or not, the focus should he on home. family and taking care of responsibilities. You should he ahle to solve existing problem,, hut don't overextend yourself in the process. *** CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): Take a moment to discover how you feel ahoul your personal life and ihe people in it. You may wan ito make some adjustment' that will not go over well. However. the sooner done. the better.*** LEO (.July 23-AuJ~. 22): Not everyone you arc dealing with will he upfront about what they think and what their intentions are. Don't he too vocal or you will give the competition the edge. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a look at where you arc and think ahoul where you would like to be. Don't wail to take the firsl step in a direction you know will satisfy you both personally and professionally. •••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Keep an eye on the people closest to you. Someone is not giving you a fair deal. Stay on lop of matters if you wan ito come oul on top. Your ideas arc good. so protecl them.** SCORI'IO (Od. 23-Nov. 21 ): Traveling a short or a long distance will provide you with some valuable information about someone who means a lot to you. Love can he yours if you plan something special. ••••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): It will he up to you to pull things logether and make everything perfect. Property or investment deals will pay off. Money is in the picture. so collect if there is any owed. ••• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jun. 19): There is a lotto think ahouttoday. Someone may be pushing you to make a decision that you aren't ready to make. Consider why you aren't and you'll have your answer. *** AQlJARiliS (.Jan. 20-Feh. Ill): Dealing with officials may he unnerving, hui if you arc straightforward. it will he easy. Focus on what you wanlto do and how you plan In make more money. Take care of your health. ••• PISCES !Fch. 19-March 20): The more you push yourself. the heller you will do. Showing your dedication and loyalty will attract friends and lovers who have similar interests. Children may he on your mind. ••••• 
Hirthduy Huhy: You arc sensitive. loving and very commendahlc. You arc passtonatc about your helie[, and always stand up for your rights. You arc known for your valor and desire to lake care of everyone around you. 
Check our Eugenia's Wt•b sites ar asrmadl•ice.com and t'il/il'niulu.vr.com. 
ALICE I WHAT'5 THE 
5 TA TU5 OF YOUR. 
PROJECT? 
PEANUTS 
E 
0 
~ 
0
.. 
® 
,.. ~ 
.. 
15 

Tuesday, January 25, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
71 Just hired 
DOWN 1 Band-Aid co. 2 Kindergarten 
quintet 3 Muscleman's quality 4 Words before 
and after "rose" 5 10-Down dress 6 _ fire (started 
burning something) 7 Pale as a ghost 8 General chicken 9 Auction conclusion? 10 Hawaiian surfing mecca 11 In an unlawful way 12 Hawaii's state bird 13 Alimony senders. maybe 19 Eve's opposite 
21 It may be something of great interest 
25 Winged 
26 Masquerader's 
event 
28 salts 
29 Col. Potter of 
"M*A*S*H," to pals 
30 Home of the N.B.A.'s Heat 
31 Buzz's
moonmate 
32 _ Poupon mustard 
33 "Du jour" item 

WILLSHORTZ 
' 
34 International "7 r "· "i7 AnnPiic topper
aspiri.~g 'J.[). ~ 
money 58 The Bruinb • sch. 

49 ;anadian tribe 
35 Used a crowbar 59 Evening. in
50 .'\lorld traveler
on Paris r
Bly ,..
40 Cabinet dept. 60 Comic Redd
,3 Pick up \since 1979 
5~ ~~any a navel 63 Dream state. f~r 41 Army N.C.O. ~"That's not short , news!" 
64 High schoo.i •
44 Ready for the post office 55(nd of filming yearbook s~t. 

....... 

For answers, call 1-900-2t~-5S56, $1.20 a minute; or. with ar credit card, 1-800-814-555.. r Annual subscriptions are a~'.lilable for the best of Sunday ; crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Tc•day•s puzzle and more than 2,00D-tfl" 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.conu'puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. ;' 
------------------~­
/ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS The "one" in a one-two 4 White Rabbit's words 10 Madoc or 
muscatel 14 _ Lingus 15 From Geneva. 
par example 16 Emcee Trebek 17 Actress Peeples 18 AA 20 Columnist 
Maureen 22 They follow Aprils 23 The Joads. e.g., in "The Grapes of Wrath" 24 State capital since 1959 26 -a-brae
-

27 BB 
33 Nasal partitions 
36 Punxsutawney 
groundhog 37 Old Roman road 
38 Sharer's word 39 Uses again, as 
Tupperware 42 Fairway position 43 "Mila 18" author 45 58-Down digs 46 With cunning 48 EE 51 Ste. Jeanne 52 And others 56 Accused's 
response 58 Defunct gridders' org. 61 Race of about 
6.2 mi. 62 LL 65 Massachusetts' 
Cape_ 
66 Aweather's opposite 67 Alchemist's 
potion 68 Carnival city 69 Duck's place 70 "Duck Soup" 
performers 

l H\INK THE TEACHER IS MAD AT YOU FOR NOT 
,ll:!t!l!f~II!~IIIPI!....:-:+=+=+=+:7!
11!1 
-::4-71-:-1-::-1 
.=.J..:.:.J..:.:.J-=...1 


' 


THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, January 25, 2005 page 20 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Slowly, but surely 
LaVere sheds brace, finds old form in last two Big East games 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sporrs Editor 

After arthroscopic knee sur­gery in December, Courtney LaVere is finally getting baek to her old form. 
"I have a lot more confi­dence," LaVere said after No. 6 
shooting. 
"I thought Courtney gave us a great lift off the bench," Irish coaeh Muffet McGraw said after that game. "She was real­ly ready to play." 
LaVere played without her brace for the first time Wednesday since her Dec. 30 return to action. She finished with her second double-double or the season, tallying 13 points and 10 rebounds. Ironically, her first double-dou­ble came in the game when she hurt her knee, Nov. 17, against 
Duke. 
"I played well 


Notre Dame's win "/ think [the injury] at Syracuse, that 63-4 7 win over gives me a lot
affected me more

Rutgers Sunday more energy and 
than I would ever

evening. "I think it playing without affected me more know." the knee brace than I would ever really helps know." because I feel
Courtney LaVere

LaVere had her like I'm more breakout Irish forward and more phys{­
game Wednesday night in a tough Big East road contest against Syracuse. When the Irish got off to a slow start, she came fast off the bench, scoring 13 first-half points on 6-for-7 
cal," LaVere said. 
Sunday against Rutgers, the 6-foot-3 junior was a key contributor off the bench as well. She was good 
see LAVERE/ page 17 

fOOTBALL RECRUITING 
McCarthy commits to Irish 
By MIKE GILLOON Sporrs Writer 

When he walked around campus, it looked right. When he talked to the coaches, they sounded right. So when Kyle McCarthy decided which school to attend, he felt right about Notre 
D a m e . 

"Everyone kept saying you would get a good feeling when you found the right place," McCarthy McCarthy, a defensive back from Youngstown, Ohio said. "Being on campus with all the tradi­tion and the people at Notre Dame, I just felt like this was 

see COMMITS/page 18 
FENCING 

Men top Columbia, women fall to OSU 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
Only one match into the new year, the Irish may already put their toughest regular-season opponent behind them. 
In a move that may pay big div­idends down the road, Notre Dame wasted no time before matching up against the best in the NCAA, squaring off against a tough field that included Columbia, ranked in the top-five in both the men's and women's polls, and No. 1 Ohio State. 
In this early season, the Irish, whose men's and women's teams are ranked No. 2 and No. 4 in their respective polls, have already tasted defeat. The women lost to both Columbia and Ohio State en route to a 2-2 over­all porformance, while the men topped all but the No. 1 Buckeyes at the event for a 3-1 record. 
Despite these early losses, Irish 
head coach Janusz Bednarski 
was not disappointed in his 
teams' performances. 
"I expected this," he said, "The beginning of the season is always hard, and first matches will be bumpy." 

While Bednarski anticipated a struggle to start the season, he did not predkt everything about the way the teams would exe-., cute. -A. 
"I did not expect the men's ' team would do better than the ; women, who are stronger I as an. all-around team]," Bednarsk: said. ./ 
The men defeated both host~ New York University and • Stanford by respective margins'· of 17-10 and 19-8, but the high-~ light of the duals for the men wa......_.. the 16-11 victory they took from Columbia. The charge was head-'· ed by the teams' epeeists, who ~.. won eight out or nine bouts ·-.., against the Lions on their way to compiling a team-best 30-6 com­bined record during the course of the duals. Two-time All­American senior epeeist Michal Soberiaj led all Irish men with a 1 0-1 overall record at the event, while sophomore Aaron 
see DUALS/page 17 

BASEBALL 
Clemens, Lidge will speak at banquet 
Major leaguers highlight Opening Night event 
,-~-.By JOE Hl:""ftLER 
I Spans Writer • -......_-..,. 
In the middle of p-ocember,.fina~r r•-...~ -··'-· tllSJiife wereI gettmg ready to have q,111er with President Bush and Vife. Laura Bush. But before the >even-time 
Cy Young award winwr left to meet the Bush's, he mad&"l phone call. . 
Needless to say, Iri(hJaseball coach Paul Mainieri wa, a bit sur­prised when arguably ihe greatest pitcher of all time rl}aled his cell phone nun1ber. 
"I 1.aid tu hini ~here are you Roger, in Housto~?' And Roger said 'I'm in Washingt.hn D.C., my wife and I are gettirg ready to have dinner with the President and his wife but I wanted to call you first,"' Mainierirecalled. "I said 'Well I'm glad you have your priorities straight."' 
Clemens called to confirm his appearance at Notre Dame's fourth annual baseball Opening Night Banquet. He is scheduled to speak with former Notre Dame pitcher and current Houston 
see BANQUET/page 18 

ClUB SPORTS
en 
CLUB SPORTS 
NCAA WOMEffS BBAUMEN'S TRACK 

AUSTRALIAN OPEN NCAA BASKETBALL 

LLI 
No. 12 North
c.,:) 

Alicia Molik def. 
No. 4 Syracuse
The Irish ski team's
The bowling and 
Carolina 56, Venus Williams 7­

z The Irish opened their 

86, Rutgers 84 
:3 
young squads dominat­squash teams had sue­
No.1 Duke 51 

5, 7-6 (3)
home season with ed weekend competi­

cess during the week-The Tarheels upset the 
= 
strong individual per-The Orange cometion in the Ohio

end in South Bend and top-ranked Blue Devilsformances from Selim With the win, Molik back from an 18-pointDivision.

c:c 
after a 12-game losingat Illinois. 

moves on the the quar­
halftime deficit for a Big Lee. 
Nurudeen and Tommie streak in the series. 

terfinals of the Open. 
East win. 
f:L ~ 

page 15
page 17 page 14
en 
page 18 page 13 page 12 











