
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 114 THURSDAY, MARCH 31.2005 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Leaders reflect as terms come to a close 
Istvan, Bell:faith in government restored 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
Nt·w, Writer 
For /\dam Istvan, even the so-far stalled struggle against llw donw 's scall"old ing has its silver -or ralhnr. golden ­lining. Though it will bring him no joy as a SIHlior at eom­mnncnmnnl, as outgoing stu­dnnl body president, he sees the situation surrounding thn Main Building's renovations as confirmation that he has full"illnd his campaign prom­ise of restoring faith in stu­dPnt govnrnnwnl and brnak­ing down rampus apathy. 
"Wiwn seniors had a prob­lem with lllw domn seal'l'old­ingl. llwy came right to stu­dent govnrnnwnl to help and represent them," Istvan said. "But wlwn tho alcohol policy was instituted a fnw ynars ago, lhenl wnn1 unorganized, sporadie prolnsls everywhere. I think this shows that the students arn beginning to trust that we will work for llwm to gel things done. and really, that's huge." 
lnlangibln stridns aside, Istvan, vien president Karla 
see ISTVAN/page 6 
SENATE 
Members say farewell amid tears and smiles 

Outgoing Notre Dame student body president Adam Istvan and vice president Knrla Bell, above, and Saint Mary's president Sarah Catherine White and vice president Mary Pauline Mormz, at left, end their terms today.
•
PHOTOS BY BETH WERNET AND KELLY HIGGINS 
Mooney, SAGA flank White-Moran era 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saim Mary's Fditnr 
Today marks tho nnd of anollwr Saint Mary's sludPnt government administration. and for president Sarah Catherinn White and viee president Mary Paulinn Moran. it eoneludns a year that began with thn excite­ment of a 111iw college presi­dnnt and ended with the gravity of the approval of a gay-straight allianen. 
Elected in .January 2004 over tlwn-viee president Sarah Brown and Miehelln Fitzgerald, Whitn and Moran worn immediately hand11d the task of welcoming formnr Notre Dame vien president and assoeialn provost and ineoming Saint Mary's presi­dent Carol Mooney to cam­pus. 
"/\t the beginning of' ol)r term we set out to 'ring' in the changos that worn planned to enliven our earn­pus this yoar, especially wel­coming Dr. Moonoy as our president," tho two outgoing ofl'icers wrolo in an e-mail. 
see WHITE/page H 

Journalist remembers Vatican II 
Newsweek editor analyzes media coverage of Pope John XXIII 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint Mary's Editor 
Spoaking to a room l'illed to capacity, author and eon­tributiilg oditor at Newsweek magazine Knnnoth Woodward lnetured on mndia eov11rage of Pope John XXIII and tho Socond Vatican Council Wndnesday at Saint Mary's. 
Tho selection of Popn .John 23rd as tlw new pontiff in 1CJSH was initially pnreeivod by tho mndia, and thnn sub­soqunntly portrayed to tho public, as a way to buy Limn for church ol'f'ieials, 
Woodward said. Ilis age meant Pope John would head the ehurch only for a few years, while in the meantime a successor could be anoint~ eel. 
It was no wonder then, Wood ward said. that wlwn the Pope deddnd to convnno a eouneillo r11vise canon law. the magnitude of such an event. was not ir1itially n~cog­nized. 
Newspap1~rs in England, Ireland and /\ustralia had lit­tle eovnragn of tho lhrnn years or proparal.ion that went into thn l'irst of four eouneil snssions that would e v e n llr a. II y co n el u d o w i t h 
major ehangos in church toaehings. Woodward said. 
Pope .John and his eouneil reenivod morn a t.t11ntion in thn U1iitnd Stal.ns, Woodward said. The largn Catholic pop­ulation in t.lw eount.ry mad11 it. morn of an issun, and Pvnn Protestants WPI'Il internstNI in what t lw w or Id·s m o s 1 prominnnl Christian IPadPr would say. Furllwr, a rising politieal star addnd l.o nwdia covnrage, Woodward said. 
"In IIJ51J a Catholk, .John F. Knnnedy, was running for thn I>Pmocratic nomination for JHPsident of a rountry thai 
sec MEDIA/page H 

By MADDIE HANNA A,,sociate News Editur 
Bnlwmm loars and laughs. sen­ators made their goodbyns, lward discussion and passed a flurry of J'Psolulions. s11Uing an oxam pin for Llw newly oleet11d roprns11ntalivns erowding tho room at the eurr11nl Student Snnaln's final nwnting Wmlrwsday night. 
"Wiwn I was trying to figuro out what to say at my last ollk11r r11porl alllw last Snnal11 nwnting, first. I was going to writo a scathing report about how the administration treats us like ehil­dren," student body president /\darn Istvan said. "But we've already bmm there, so I'm not going to do that." 
Istvan then said that when he next lril'd to eomc up with "somothing profound to ehange nvoryono's livos," all that result­nd was a blank sheet of paper. 
"I guoss all I ean say is thank you to everyone," Istvan said. "It's bonn an incredible ynar." 
lie dt11d the implemnntation of 
see FAREWELL/page 4 

Lightning causes po-wer outage 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
A~sociatc News Editor 
More than 50 buildings on Notro Damn's eampus were temporarily without power Wednesday evening when lightning struck a main power line of /\merican Eleetrie Power !AEP), the company supplying Notre 
Dame with mueh of its olee­tricily. The outage occurred at 11:09 p.m. and eoneluded at approximately 11:29 p.m., said Shawn 1\nnis. operation supervisor at Notre Dame's power plant. 
"The one !power outage! we just had a littlo bit ago was from the storm coming through," Annis said just after the ineident. "It was 
an nloct.ric sl.rikn on tho main lines." . 
/\s a way to prolnet Notrn Dame's nleetrie nquiprnnnt. tho brnaknrs oponnd up and temporarily shut down power, /\nnis said. 
"They 1/\EPI still had power; wn just had to wait for tho storm to move 

see POWER/page H. 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, March 31, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Do111e has 
•

111ean1ng 
Two days ago, a friend perfectly described how the scaffolding around the golden dome has made the seniors feel this year. Driving back from Easter break, she recalled seeing the dome and saying: "It makes me want to throw up." 
Well put. 
And ifseeing the dome looking so unat­tractive didn't make me queasy, reading about Executive Vice President John Affieck-Graves' attitude toward the 
Joe Hettler 
importance of it certain­
ly did. Senior Staff 
Affleck-Graves, the Writer administration's repre­sentative on the issue, is quoted as saying in yesterday's Observer, "Honestly, I did not anticipate the huge reaction," and "Graduation is not about the physical dome. You don't remember standing in front of it 
getting your picture taken .... There could 
be no dome and it would be a fabulous 
. ,
time. 
While I credit Affleck-Graves for taking 
personal responsibility for keeping the scaf­
folding a secret from students, I'm still hurt. 
That a University official would make such a 
comment is personally disheartening to me. 
I expected more from this University and its 
administrators. 
But maybe that's the problem. Maybe we 
student.<> truly understand the meaning of 
certain places on this campus better than 
some of the administration. Fault the sen­
iors for actually thinking the dome has 
meaning on graduation day. Blame them lor 
making travel arrangements for grandpar­
ents or aunts or nephews to make cross­
country and cross-world trips for just one 
chance to share with them one of the most 
sacred aspects of this University. Hold them 
responsible for seeing the dome and instant­
ly remembering what this place stands for 
and why they chose it as their university. 
I have heard the reasons for the scaffold­
ing-money, costs, weather. But I would 
hope that the administration would realize 
how important this is to its students. 
Attending Notre Dame was my lifelong 
dream and I did everything I could to get 
accepted. I prayed every night in high 
school for this opportunity. 
Why? Because I remember coming out to 
Notre Dame football games at age 6 with 
my dad and getting butterflies in my stom­
ach when we drove between mile marker 
78 and 77, straining my neck to sneak a 
peek of that beautiful dome in between the 
tall trees. 
I remember being downright giddy as we 
walked toward the dome, making sure to 
never step on the grass in God Quad and 
never, ever walk up the front staircase. 
And I remember feeling an emptiness as 
we drove back to Ohio after the game, 


knowing it'd be another year until I'd see 
that golden dome again. 
Once I attended school here, things didn't 
change. I can't count the times I've walked 
in God Quad, looked up to see that golden 
structure and said a quick prayer of thanks. 
So no, graduation isn't about a physical 
building. But it is about what that physical 
building symbolizes and means to countless .people across this world. It is about how 
that building touches people, pulls at their 
emotions when they see it. It is about the 
way that the golden dome, and what it 
stands for, triggers a sense of pride at being 
a part ofthis great school. 
That's why it's important. Not because 
students want something real pretty to have 
in the background of their graduation pic­
ture. The seniors want an unobstructed 
Golden Dome on graduation day because it 
encompasses everything that is Notre 
Dame. We seniors are only embracing 
something that you, the University, taught 
us. 
If you don't understand that, you don't 
understand Notre Dame. 
The views expre.ssed in the Inside 
Column are those of the author and not 
necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Joe Hettler atjhettler@nd.edu 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE ICE CREAM FLAVOR AND WHY? 








AI Klein Courtney Darlington Michelle Brintnall Paul Carlson Chris DeStephano Emily Rhatiean 
junior freshman freshman freshman junior freshman Keough McGlinn McGlinn Dillon Keough McGlinn 
"Blue moon, "Mint chocolate "lfthey had "My horse "Sherbet -it ''I'm gonna because the chip ... cookie anything that bucked me off gets the job have to go with 
taste is out of dough ... black tasted like pina into a vat ofice 
this world!" raspberry ... I colada, I'd be cream as a 
don't know, I all over it. " child. I almost 
like drowned. Yeah, 
everything. , I don't like ice 
cream. 

Thief Steals Poop From Woman Walking Dog 
SAN DIEGO -The hunt is on for a turd burglar. Police in San Diego are searching for a gunman who swiped a bag of poop from a woman out walk­ing her dog. 
The woman told police that she was out walking her dog, Misty, on Monday night when a man in his 20s ran up behind her and grabbed the bag she was holding. 
When the gunman dis­covered what was in it, he threw it down in disgust, pointed his gun at the 32­year-old woman and 
TODAY 

......
cs: 
(.) 
0 


demanded money, San Diego police detective Gary Hassen said 
He then aimed his .22­caliber semiautomatic at Misty and pulled the trig­ger twice but the gun did­n't fire, Hassen said. 
Woman Insists She's Not a Day Over 105 
RED LION, Pa. Minnie Stein had just one complaint on her 106th birthday. She was sure she was only 105. "She always thought that she was a year younger," Stein's daughter, Joan Gillespie, said on her mother's birthday Tuesday. 
But Gillespie said a birth certificate obtained from Harrisburg showed that her mother was born in 1899. "She was not happy about it at all!" 
Stein struggles to hear and see. She makes her way around her small apartment, 26 steps up from the street, slowly but steadily and resists entreaties to move in with family members or into an assisted living home. "She won't hear of it," Gillespie said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


50 33 
..... HIGH 58 HIGH HIGH HIGH 
LOW 35 LOW LOW LOW 
40 32 

TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 


done." frozen custard. " 
IN BRIEF 

A conference entitled "Contemporary Catholicism, Religious Pluralism and Democracy in Latin America: Challenges, Responses, and Impact" will take place at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies today from 8:45 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. 
The National Prison Rape Elimination Commission will hold an open meeting from 1:30 
p.m. 
to 3:30 in McKenna Hall. 

A panel symposium entitled "After Objectivity: What Moral Norms should · Govern Reporting and Commentary?" will take place tonight from 6 

p.m. 
to 7:30 in the Eck Visitors' Center auditorium. The event is cosponsored by the "Notre Dame Journal of Law, Ethics and Public Policy" and the White Center on Law and Government. 


Lynn Davey, director of the Maine non-profit agency Kids Count, will give a talk entitled "Reframing Children's Issues to Move Public Policy" today at at 4:30 p.m. in room 131 of Decio Hall as part of the 2005 Women of Notre Dame Series. 
Mura Christopher, president and chief executive officer of the Center for Practical Bioethics in Kansas City will give a lecture entitled "Decision Making Challenges at the End of Life" tonight at 7 p.m. in McKenna Hall. The event is part of the "Advances in Supportive and Palliative Care" conference. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 



HIGH LOW 
Atlanta 72 I 59 Boston 52 I 38 Chicago 54 I 34 Denver 41 I 26 Houston 82 I 56 Los Angeles 80 I 54 Minneapolis 44 130 New York 56 I 44 Philadelphia 60 I 46 Phoenix 78 I 51 Seattle 58 I 48 St. Louis 61 I 36 Tampa 82 164 Washington 68 148 
Thursday, March 31, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Faculty tnetnbers address controversial Schiavo case 
Notre Dame Law School professors debate issues of morality and legality in front of audience, television cameras 
mnans to presnrve his own life, the importance to abiding by the By KAREN LANGLEY but there is no obligation to use law, even in such excruciating 
News Writer 
extraordinary means." cases as that of Schiavo. 
Hobinson went on to enumerate "The rule of law is not an 
While temperatures rose the ways in which care could be amoral concept," he said. "It is throughout the region Wndnesday· categorized as extraordinary. what creates an order that allows afternoon, temperaments were "If the means used to preserve each of us to pursuer certain ends heightmwd in tlw Notro Dame lifo were too painful, thon they in this life. To appreciate all l.aw School courtroom during a aro oxtraordinary." he said. "In aspeets of this case, we must faculty discussion of the contro­tho agn belim~ anesthetics, rofus­examine the rule of'law." versial Terri Schiavo ease. Belim~ ing amputation was justified oven lie then discussed various legal a full audim11:e and tehwision eov­in the face of death. Care could aspects of the intorplay botwenn Nagn, four mnmbers of the law also be considered too expensive the state and fedflral courts. school faculty -John Hobinson, or too repugnant to be ordinary." "This case is notable because 
A.J. Bnllia. Hichard Garnett and Hobinson also mentioned that Congress gave an inlilrior federal John Finnis -prnsented brief in 2004, Pope .John Paul II stated eourt the power to review judg­aeeounL'i of spneilk aspeeL'i of the that "tlw administration of water ments of a state court," he said. 1:/lSil. and li10d, even when provided by "This is a matter that has never 
Professor M. Cathleen Kaveny artificial moans, always repre­been tested, and it is a substantial of the law school and tho thoology sents a natural means of proserv­issue." dnpartnwnt modnratod the dis-ing life, not a medical act," rnn­Associate Professor Garnett cussion. dering such provision morally developed dialogue on the sub­
"This caso raisos a numbnr of ne1~essary. ject, "Were Terri Schiavo's reli­issues from the perspective of Associate Professor Bollia fol­gious-freedom rights violated?" mor.:tlity an.d t!.H.~ p1lr~pectivn of lownd with a presentation on the Garnett noted three different doms of people living in certain dens of eontinuing care. law. shn satd. Sonwtunes as wn question, "Can and should con­dimensions of the problem in this types of government institutions. "The law must uphold fairnoss sort through tlwse issues, it can !,>Tnss give the federal courts juris­case. Garnett's final point dealt with against partiality," he said. "The become confusing, so we at the diction to hear a ease already "The first ]dimension] is the role of religious freedom comparative burdens and bmw­law school wantnd to fadlitatn a doddnd by the Florida courL'>'?" whether Ms. Schiavo's aeeess to debates in the public lhrum. fits of caring lilr patinnL'> in such diswssion Ion thn easel." Bollia rofnrrod to a statemont the sacraments is being provid­"The religious believer, liko condition are similar t.o those of 
Associate l'rol'essor Hobinson madn by Bishop John D'Arcy of ed," he said. "My understanding everyone else, has the right to gnt caring for a seniln, snvernly initiatnd tlw discussion by tho Fort Wayno-South Bend dio­is that sho was given Holy out in the public square," he said. retarded or hopelessly insane addressing the question, "What cnse in which the Bishop echoed Communion at the time the tubes "Nothing is turning us into a pnrson." dons tlw Catholic tradition say tho Popo's commont that food and worn removed by way of a drop of theocracy just because some peo­lie discussed the issun ol' about artificial nutrition and wator roprosont an ordinary wine." ple who are trying to save Terri 4WhPthnr the mntinuance of lifi1 in hydration lin· patinnL'> in a persist­mnans of prnsnrving lifo. The second aspect of the case Schiavo happen to be religious." a vegetative stato is an undigni­Pill vPgntatiw stat1~?" "The question arises, why deals with rflligious freedom ease Professor Finnis dnvnloped thn fied oxistenen that would justify 
"BPginning in tho 16th century should we spnnd timo discussing that the Sehindlnrs ]Schiavo's par­dialogue on thn subject, "I low do the rmnoval of lileding devicns. in Spain, Catholic moral teaching who has authority il' what is hap­ents] submitted, (;arnett said. lie law and morality relate in the Al'tnr thn prnsnntations eon­on nwdicirw dewlopnd a distinc­pening in Florida is morally diseussed the eomplainL'i that had Schiavo ease'?" eluded, thn floor was opmwd to tion hel.wonn ordinary and wrong'? Why not just take what­boon brought under tho 2000 lie explained that it is impor­the audinnee lilr qunstions. extraordinary earn," he said. ever means nocnssary to chango statute Heligious Land Use and tant to dedde whether the bene­"Every pPrson and espneially it'?'' he said. Institutionalized Persons Act, fits of caring lilr an individual like Contact Karen Langley at every Catholic must use ordinary Bellia proceednd to emphasizo which protect<> the religious free-Terri Schiavo outweigh the bur-klangle 1 @nd.edu 

• 
NATIONAL PRISON RAPE ELIMINATION COMMISSION 
March 31, 2005 
1:30 p.m. -3:30 p.m. McKenna Hall Auditorium 
The Commission will discuss the problem of sexual assault in prisons. 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 31, 2005 
that.'" the honoree of the award. peers, Sorin senator Erik Powers Chief executive assistant and +Residence Life Committee stood before the Senate and 
Sen1inar

Farewell 
student body president-elect member Brendan McHugh pre­asked members to reconsider a continued from page 1 Dave Baron thanked Istvan and sented a resolution on the motion previously proposed by Bell for the pair's service in stu­Ruckus Network desigued to pro­him and former presidential run­

to honor

Fair Trade coffee in the dining dent government. vide Notre Dame with a legal ning mate Alec White to change halls and the Huddle, as well as Baron incited applause by alternative to pirating music and the name of Spring Break to "one mildly [successful] and one praising the pair's leadership movies from the Internet. "Erik and Alec's Week of extremely successful Board of skills, acknowledging "Karla, McHugh said that the only pay­Awesomeness." 

Catholic 

Trustees Report," as highlights whose enthusiasm for making ments would be for students to "People say that student gov­from the current administration. student life better is just conta­download music or movies. ernment doesn't get much done," Istvan said he hoped the new gious, and Adam, who made us "It's free to the University to Powers said. "This is something 
senators would make sure the realize there are some things you facilitate the service," McHugh tangible." 
historian University follows through with just can't compromise on." said, explaining that students Reasoning with senators, the changes proposed by student Following these farewell COl-Jld either pay by credit card or Powers continued, "If you're not government. addresses, Ryan WiHerton, assis­as an item in their tuition bill. going to do it for your dorm, do it 
Special to The Observer "It's the job of the people sitting tant director of the Office for The Senate passed the resolu­for yourself. If you're not going to 
Notre Dame's Cushwa on the outside of this room to be Student Activities, spoke about tion. do it for yourself, do it for Alec 
Center for the Study of diligent," Istvan said. "From Old to Gold," a year-end +Sarah Bates presented the and [me]." 
American Catholicism will "It's been a tough year for campus yard sale created by a Residence Life Committee's sec­The resolution passed, 
host a conference entitled Notre Dame," he added, refer­partnership between the ond resolution regarding same­although Istvan immediately 
"The Future of American ring to the firing of head football University and United Way of St. gender activities for future said, ''I'm going to have to pocket 
Catholic History" April 8 coach Tyrone Willingham, the Joseph's County. Freshman Orientations. that." 
and 9 at McKenna Hall. resignation of trustee David "All proceeds raised will go to Bates said members of her Powers was also the subject of 
The conference is being Duerson and the changing of the United Way of St. Joseph's committee and focus groups that a resolution read by Baron enti­
held in honor of University presidents. County," Willerton said, explain­discussed the recent Board of tled "B.esolution Bestowing Erik 
Christopher Kauffman, "But I can't say the same for ing that students are encouraged Trustees report felt there needed Powers Emeritus Status to Erik 
editor of the journal U.S. us," he continued. "We've perse­to donate gently used or new to be "activity between dorms of Powers." 
Catholic Historian and vered through problems -and belongings to the sale to be held the same sex [during Freshman Designed since "no award or 
author of numerous books they [members of the .administra­in the Notre Dame Stadii,Im on Orientation] so we're not just accreditation really exists in the 
and articles on American tion] are starting to listen to us." May 21. pressuring students to meet Student Union that could ade­
Catholic history. Istvan said the fact that the Willerton also discussed the members of the opposite sex." quately give [senator] Powers his 
"Chris Kauffman's schol­administration initiated a meet­options for shipping belongings The resolution passed, mean­due recognition," the resolution 
arship has certainly ing with him and senior class home or storing them in hall ing a letter will be sent to next praised Powers' "ingenuity and 
expanded the study of U.S. president Darrell Scott about the storage trailers. year's Frosh-0 staff recommend­providential inspiration to show­
Catholic history," said regilding of the golden dome was In other Senate news: ing that all dorms must engage in case three different hairdos dur­
Timothy Matovina, direc­a sign of the student voice being +Judicial Council president a minimum of one same-gender ing the year: Classic All­
tor of the Cushwa Center, heard. Brin Anderson appeared before interhall activity and that an American Powers, the Blonde 
"but his contribution of Student body vice president the Senate to present the Student award be added to the weekend Artificial Comb Over and the 
mentoring younger schol­Karla Bell gave a more emotional Union Ethics Committee's selec­for "Best Intra-gender Activity." Skinny Stone Cold Steve Austin." 
ars is even greater, espe­farewell than Istvan. tion for the Michael J. Palumbo +Committee on University The resolution passed without 
cially through his editor­"Thank you for your commit­award: Siegfried senator James Affairs chair Katie Boyle opposition. 
ship of U.S. Catholic ment, your support, your enthu-' Leito. explained a resolution on cap­+Without discussion, the 
Historian. As one of the siasm," Bell said, pausing to wipe According to a letter written by ping the maximum punishment Senate passed a resolution read 
many beneficiaries of his away tears. "Your passion Anderson and presented to the for first-time parietals offenders, by Bell recognizing the national 
enabling leadership, I'm inspires me." Senate, the award "honors an proposing that .a first-time champion fencing team. The res­
delighted that my col­Bell advised senators to undergraduate student for their offender should not be removed olution will be sent to the team's 
leagues and I are able to "always believe in the possibility outstanding dedication and serv­from his or her residence hall. coach in congratulations. 
host a conference that will of change" and said it was ice to the Notre Dame Student The Senate passed the resolu­
further develop the field to important "to look back and Union." tion. Contact Maddie Hanna at 
which Chris has dedicated [say], Tm glad I made time for The Senate approved Leito as +Sparking laughter among his mhannal@nd.edu 
his life's work." 



featuring: 
Robbie Hazen, Andrew Staplet, and Tom Schreck 
This Thursday LaFortune Basement 10pm 
be there or be 
• 
brought to you by the student union board. sub.nd.edu ~ 
~-­






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, March 31, 2005 COMPILED FROM TIIE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. citizen taken hostage in Iraq 
WASil INCTON -A U.S. citizen was taknn 
hostagn in Iraq this wnek along with thren 
Hornanian journalists, thn State Dnpartmnnt 
said Wndrwsday. 
Tlw thrnn llomanians disapp11arnd Monday 
shortly al'tnr intnrvinwing intnrim Iraqi Prime 
Ministnr Ayad Allawi. There was no orlkial 
word that an Anwriean had been taknn 
hostagn with tlwm until Statn Dnpartmnnt 
dnputy spoknsman Adam Eroli eonlirmod it 
Wndrwsday night. II!~ rnlmtsed no furthnr 
inf•wrnation. 
Onn ol' tlw Hornanian journalist!; was able to 
rnport thn hostag1~-taking by sending a text 
nwssagn back to hnr ollicn. 
Tho kidnappings oc:nrrn~d neat· the journal­ists' Baghdad hotnl. 
Fatah militants fire on West Bank 
HAMAI.I.J\11. WPst Bank -Palestinian mili­
tants lin•d Wndrwsday at Palestinian lnadnr 
Mahmoud Abbas' West Bank headquartnrs 
whiln hn was in thn compound. but hn was not 
injurPd, sncurity oflidals said. 
l.atnr. thn 15 gunnwn -who said they hPiong to an arnwd group linked to tho ruling l'atah movmrwnt -went on a shooting ram­..Jlagn throughout thn city ol' Hamallah. damag­ing s1wnral rostaurants and fordng shops to 
dosn, witrwssns and ollkials said. 
lntPrrral fighting has plagund the Palnstinian 
l!•rritorins for months, largely tho rnsult ol' a 
hn~akdown in authority and command causml 
hy morP than linrr yPars of fighting with lsnu~l 
that snwrnly ddJilitatnd the security forcns 
and otlwr Palnstinian Authority institutions. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Study documents military assaults 
WASIIIN<;TON -A task force oxamining sexual assaults at U.S. military acadmnies said Wndrwsday that counsnlors and cadets arc confused about confidontiality rules. am~eting nll'orts to rnduce the numbor of attacks. 
Thn parwl, ereatod by Congress last year aftor n~ports of assaults at the Air Foree Acadnmy in Colorado, is studying the situa­tions at tho U.S. Military Academy at West Point. N.Y .. and thn Naval Acadomy in Annapolis. Md. _ 
Mnmbers of the task force said at a public !waring that they had found significant gaps in undmstanding by eadnts and midshipmen about whom thoy can turn to in total conli­dnncn ifthoy arn sexually assaulted. 
Hntir11d Maj. (;nn. Mike Nardotti Jr. said that under the current rules, a vietim's initial statemnnts to a psychotherapist can be obtairwd by military oflkials in a court-mar­tial. 
California Secretary sworn in 
SACHAMENTO, Calif. -A former lawmak­nr was sworn in Wednesday as California sncretary of statn, and quickly promised to restorn public conlidnncn in the beleaguered ollicn. 
Formnr state Sen. Bruce McPherson, 61, a Hepublican nominated by Gov. Arnold Schwarznneggnr to replace former Seerntary of State Kevin Slwlley, vowed not to let down the stahl or thn ollien 's staff. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Daylight savings bill revived 
INDIANAPOLIS -Daylight-saving time started ticking again in the General Assembly on Wndnesday after lawmakers inserted provisions that would mandate statewidn observance of the clock change into an unrnlatod bill. 
The House Public Policy Committee stripped a spend-limit bill of its contents, replaced them with the daylight-time lan­guage, and tlwn votnd 8-4 to send th(l new bill to the full House for consideration. It eould be eligible for a vote next week, and the bill's sponsor, Hepublican Rep. Jerry Torr of Carmel, said he believes it will pass the I louse. 
VATICAN CITY 
Frail pope requires feeding tube 
Vatican officials claim extra medical aid is needed to improve fohn Paul II's health 
Associated Press 

VATICAN CITY -In 
another sign of Pope John 
Paul ll's growing frailty, 
the Vatican said 
Wednesday that tho 84­
year-old pontilT was getting 
nutrition from a tube in his 
nos1~ and acknowledged his 
convalescence from throat 
surg~;ry l1~.st month has 
bnen slow. 

Vatican spoknsman Joaquin Navarro-Valls said John Paul was fitted with a nasogastric tube to "improve the calorie intakn" and lwlp him recover his strength. 
The statnment was issued shortly after the pope tried unsuccessfully to speak to thn crowds in St. Peter's Square for the second time in a wenk. Aftnr managing just a rasp of his voico, he blessed well-wishers by making tho sign of the cross with his hand and withdrew from his window. 
A nasogastric tube is common in peopln rnquir­ing supplemental nutrition. Tho tubn is thrnadnd down the nose and throat into the stomach and liquid food is fed through it. While uncomfortable, no sedation or surgery is required. The patient can eat and speak with the tube in place. tal feeding, Paris said. appeared to indirectly the activities of tho lloly 
Dr. Barbara Paris, direc­Terri Schiavo, the deny any hospitalization Sen and the lil'n of the tor of geriatrics at severely brain-damaged was planned. Another church." Maimonides . Medical woman at the center of a Vatican official confirmed But Navarro-Valls said Center in New York City, legal battle in the United there was no plan to the pontiff's public audi­said the tube might be just States, was fed for years return John Paul to the encns remain suspnndnd. a temporary measure to by a PEG tube before it hospital. lin said medical assis­boost John Paul's nutrition was removed this month. In the Vatican's state­tance was being provided during his roeovery. It wasn't dear when the ment, the first medical by the Vatiean medical 
But she said it also could pope's nas.ogastric tube report on John Paul since stall' under the direction of be the first step toward a was inserted, but it was March 10, Navarro-Valls the pope's personal physi­more permanent feeding first acknowledged by the said the pope was continu­cian. Dr. H1111ato Buzzonetti tube. In that procedure -Vatican on Wednesday. ing a "slow and progres­-an apparent rnfnrnnee known as PEG, for percu­None was visible during sive convalescence" from a to reports that outside taneous endoscopic gas­John Paul's brief appear­tracheotomy Feb. 24. In medical help had been trostomy-a surgical inci­ance at the window that surgery, a tube was called in. sion is made in the Wednesday. inserted in the pope's The insertion of the feed­abdomen to permit a tube Italian media have said throat to help him breathe. ing tube was the la(nst in a to be passed directly into the pope's doctors were The spokesman said series of intnrventions for the stomach. considering a PEG tube John Paul spends "many the pontiff, who has bat­
The nasogastrie tube is because John Paul was hours" seated in an arm­tled Parkinson's disease for less invasive and simpler having trouble swallowing. chair, celebrates Mass in ynars as well as hip and than the PEG procedure, The procedure must be his private chap{ll and has knee ailments that have but is not generally used done in a hospital, and work contacts with his made it virtually impossi­for long-term supplemen-Navarro-Valls' statement aides "following directly ble for him to stand. 

Bill allows religious texts in public 
U.S. Supreme Court rules on the said. "We're setting ourselves up for 
Associated Press 

constitutionality of displaying the a lot of ridicule. Again, Mississippi 
JACKSON, Miss.-The Mississippi Ten Commandments on public prop­will look less than progressive." House on Wednesday overwhelm­erty. Other lawmakers defended the ingly approved a bill that would Mississippi has had a law since state's right to decide the issue. allow the Ten Commandments and 2001 requiring the motto "In God "Maybe tho Supreme Court will other religious texts to be placed in We Trust" to be posted in public say this is not legal," said public buildings, a day after the schools. The new bill would allow Hepublican Sen. Alan Nunnelne. Senate also approved it. the motto, the Ten Commandments ".Just because the Supreme Court 
The legislation now goes before and excerpts from Jesus' Sermon on says something doesn't mean that Republican Gov. Haley Barbour, who the Mount to be posted in all public it's right." is "inclined to sign" it, said his buildings. The high court heard arguments spokesman, Pete Smith. Democratic Sen. .Johnnie Walls earlier this month in cases involving 
The measure passed the House unsuccessfully tried to kill the bill a 6-foot granite monument on the 97-15 and the Senate 40-4 despite Tuesday. Texas Capitol grounds and framed warnings from some lawmakers "What we're attempting to do copies of the commandments in two that the state should wait until the here is proselytize our religion," he Kentucky courthouses. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 31, 2005 
Istvan 
continued from page 1 
Bell and chief executive assis­tant Dave Baron can count the institution of the Huddle Video and Fair Trade coffee, decisive movement on the Teacher Course Evaluation issue, development of an off­campus safety seminar and sharpened focus on the issues of sexual assault, eating dis­orders and diversity as part of the progress made during their term. 
Istvan said that excepting the SYH issue -which he said was clearly pushed off the table by vice president for Student Affairs Father Mark get done, and was over­whelmed at first," Bell said. "But you build up confidence after a while." 
Istvan, now a seasoned vet­eran, told incoming president Baron to remember to dele­gate -a technique he said that he and Bell had to learn the hard way. 
"You eventually learn this job isn't doing everything that needs to be done yourself, but making sure everything that needs to be done gets done," Istvan said. "You also learn that if you want realize your goals, there are some things you just can't compromise 
on." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichaels@nd.edu 


Arts center natnes top official 
Laura Moran to serve as marketing director 
Special to The Observer 
Laura Moran, most recent­ly director of Notre Dame Media Group, has been appointed director of mar­keting for the University's 
. new Marie P. De Bartolo Center for the Performing Arts. In her new role, Moran will oversee marketing efforts for all events at the DeBartolo Center, a 151 ,000-square­foot, $64 million building 
with five performance halls that opened last fall. 
Moran joined the staff of Notre Dame Media Group, the University's on-campus marketing communications agency, in 2001 and had served as director since 2003, overseeing the expan­sion of the department to include marketing planning and Web design. Under her leadership, the Media Group received recognition for its work from the Council for Advancement and Support of Education, the American Advertising Federation and the Publicity Club of 
Chicago. 
A longtime supporter of the arts in South Bend, Moran has been involved with local arts presenters and performers for many years and has completed contract work for national promoters and booking agents and served as a mar­keting and advertising con­sultant for the Morris Performing Arts Center, Lampkin Music Group and South Bend Civic Theater, for which she is a member of the marketing committee and a regular volunteer at the theater's box office. 

Poorman during a meeting before the term began ­everything on the "to do" list he wrote on his first day in office had a check beside it. 
Bell and Istvan refused to take sole credit for these proj­ects, however, explaining that only this year's student gov­ernment, which they likened to a "family," could have accomplished them. 
"Everything we did this year was a joint effort by everyone in student government, from senators down to committee members whose names don't usually get to be printed," Bell said. 
Tipping his hat specifically to the Student Senate and the Student Union Board, Istvan added that he felt all of the groups were more cohesive and professional this year than in the past. The focus on constructive discussion and action allowed stagnant proj­ects. to get back in motion, he said. 
"When people say that stu­dent government can't do anything, it's a self-fulfilling prophecy," Istvan said. "After three years of talking about getting DVDs in [LaFortune], we just decided to do it and got it done. After this term, we're all starting to realize that [student government] has a lot more power than we thought, if you have the right motivation." 
Though unrealized plans like the ND Safebus -pro­posed during the October Board of Trustees Report and knocked off the radar shortly thereafter in part because of liability issues -dot their legacy, Istvan and Bell say they have no real regrets looking back at the past year. 
"Sure, I wish we had been able to do more about the SafeBus, but we found a dif­ferent option that will help students get to and from off­campus hot spots, even though the student govern­ment can't officially endorse it," Istvan said. 
"We accomplished a lot of things," he added. "When our term started, very few of the student government members were left over from the last year. Next year, over half of the senators will be working with the student government in some capacity. Would they stay involved if they didn't know they could be produc­tive?" 
But the year was not with­out its struggles, as the pair worked to get a handle on the government structure revamped by a new constitu­tion -a situation made more difficult by their lack of strong experience with stu­dent government coming into oiTir.P. 
"Personally, I didn't always think I was capable of getting everything done I needed to 




Now, 
all your incoming callS can· be free. 
Thursday, March 31, 2005 

Dow 
10,540.93 +135.23
}ones ,, 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,516 ISO 2,135,444,250

'-.Jl; 

AMEX I ,436.63 -4.78 NASDAQ 2,005.67 +31.79 NYSf 7,158.50 +87.97 S&PSOO I, 181.41 + 16.05 NIKK£l(Tokyo) 11,622.28 +56.40 FTSf IOO(Lonclon) 4,900.70 -18.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) + 1.89 +0.68 36.73 INTEL CP (INTq +1.47 +0.34 23.49 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +1.00 +0.24 24.16 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) + 1.58 +0.28 18.03 SIRIUS SATElliTE R(SIRI) +5.39 +0.29 5.67 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.93 -0.45 48.07 10-YEAR NOTE -0.72 -0.33 45.58 5-YEAR NOTE -0.68 -0.29 42.57 3-MONTH BILL -0.36 -0.10 27.62 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.24 53.99 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.90 429.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.45 96.20 
fxcha Rates 

YEN 107.1500 EURO 0.7732 POUND 0.5316 CANADIAN$ 1.2165 
IN BRIEF 

Mark Hurd named HP president 
1'/\1.0 1\t:I'O, Cali!'. -The newly appointed lnadnr of tho Hewlett-Packard Co. acknowl­mlgnd Wndnnsday that the comput(1r and print­er maker is ailing but stopped short of saying whether tho Silicon Valley stalwart should romain intact. 
;\ day aftnr being named president and chief nxocutive. Mark llurd, 48, said he plans to take stweral months to learn about the diversifiHd tndmology company, with one of his first priori­tins being comprehensive financial evaluations of its livn divisions and dozens of product lines. 
I>irnctor Patricia Dunn told reporters she nxpnetnd Hurd to ovnreome the most daunting obstade -lnarning and blending into liP's fra­tnrnal corporate culture, known as "the HP way" -within six months. 
Three firms charged with scams 
W/\SIIINGTON -The government Wednesday announcnd it ha.<; reached settlements with three companies accused of bilking thousands of debt­ridden people out of morH than $100 million using sdwmes that often lel't customers in worse linandal shape. 
The Federal Trade Commission settled lawsuit<; it brought last year against National Consumers Council, Better Budget Financial Services and Debt Management Foundation Services, which have since eP.a.<;ed most operations. 
The settlement<; order the companies and their principles to pay back about $7 million to con­sumnrs and include $125 million in suspended ponalties, whkh could be paid if defendant<; are found to have lied about their assets. 
Though the individuals involved are allowed to continue in the consumer debt business, they would faee tougher penalties if they repeat the fraud. 
"If thern arn other companies out there think­ing that thny can deeeive consumers who are in linaneial distress, we've got three words for thorn: Give it up," Lydia Parnes, acting director of the FTC's Bureau of Consumer Protection, said at a nnws conf!1rnnen. 
In the largest settlement, National Consumers Council, a California-based group of companies and individuals, failed to deliver on promises of frne debt counseling, instead passing client infor­mation to other organizations that charged thou­sands of dollars for programs. 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS 
page 7 

Co-founders leave Miramax 
Bob and Harvey Weinstein part ways with the Disney-owned indie film studio 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -The breakup of the 12-year relationship between the Walt Disney Co. and indio film pioneers Bob and llarvey Weinstein allows the company some new latitude: making less expensive family films and eo-producing sequels to some of Miramax's biggest hits. 
Y11t Disney stands to lose the prestige that came from the Weinsteins. And it must overcome the percep­tion that it's unable to sus­tain relationships with partners, a central ehal­lnnge to signing a new deal with partner Pixar Animation Studios. 
Financial analysts have shrugged off the Woinsteins' departure, say­ing that Disney is right to shift its attention to small­er budget pictures aimed at its traditional family audience. 
"We think it is prudent for Disney to prioritize returns" over prestige films that make little money, Goldman Sachs analyst Anthony Noto wrote in a note to clients Wednesday. 
Disney bought Miramax in 1993 for $80 million, hoping for the kind of inex­pensive hits the Weinsteins and nominations over the and interesting ways." the independent film delivered such as "Pulp years. Disney has scaled back world. Fiction." This year, Miramax films the budgets of films pro­"We're going to be look­
But Disney chief execu­received 20 nominations, duced under its Walt ing to put tognther a team tive Michael Eisner chafed including two in the best Disney Pictures and that is going to bn able to at the Weinsteins' ambi­picture category for "The Touchstone labels and will ferret out great ideas, nur­tions to become a larger Aviator" and "Finding release more movies aimed ture filmmakers and do media company, Neverland." at family audiences. things that arHn't tradition­bankrolling larger, costlier But Disney Studios Miramax will operate ally in the box." Cook said. films and moving into book Chairman Dick Cook said with less than half the With one thorny negotia­and magazine publishing. Wednesday he intends to budget of recent years. tion out of the way, Disney 
The Weinstein brothers hire a creative team that And the label will have to now turns its attention to did deliver one thing will keep Miramax at the do without the talents of another creative partner, Disney has not been able forefront of producing such Weinstein-nurtured Pixar Animation Studios. to achieve on its own -smart, edgy films. filmmakers as Quentin Pixar broke oll' talks with Academy Award-winning "I think it's awfully Tarantino, Kevin Smith Disney about nxtending films. Three Miramax films important," Cook told The and Robert Hodriguez. their lucrative relationship -"The English Patient," Assoeiated Press. "It gives Those directors have said past the delivery of next "Shakespeare in Love" and us an opportunity to find they will create their next year's film "Cars." Disney's "Chicago" -have won talented new filmmakers projects with the incoming chief nxecutive, best picture Osears and the with fresh voices that are Weinsteins' new company. Robert Iger, has said he studio has garnered able to tackle new ideas in Cook said Miramax will will reopen talks with numerous other awards really thought-provoking remain a serious player in Pixar. 

Paramount names neW president 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -Gail Berman, who has crafted the prime-time schedule for the Fox Broadcasting Co. since 2000, was named presi­dent of Paramount Studios Wednesday. 
The announcement had been expected since last week, when Paramount said it was considering Berman for a position at the movie studio and Fox named Peter Ligouri to succeed her at the network. Berman will start her new role sometime in May. 
Berman will replace current Paramount President Donald DeLine. The studio said it was in discussions with DeLine about his future with the company. 
Berman is the first high profile hire of Brad Grey, the new chairman and chief executive of Paramount. Both executives come from the world of television with a mandate to turn the ailing studio around. 
Paramount is a unit of Viacom Inc., which also owns CBS, MTV, Infinity radio stations and Simon & Schuster book publishing among other media outlets. Executives have pledged to spend more money and take bigger risks at the studio, which has been known in recent years for box-office flops such as "The Stepford Wives." 
Grey arrived at Paramount with extensive TV experience. He had run the talent agency Brillstein-Grey Entertainment and producHd films and television shows, most notably the HBO series "The Sopranos." He took over from longtime Paramount CEO Sherry Lansing. 
Berman has led Fox for live years, a relatively long tenure in the pres­sure-cooker job of network enter­tainment. As a producer, shn helped develop the TV shows "Huffy the Vampire Slayer" and "Maleolm in the Middle." She had had mixed results at Fox, especially with intro­ducing a year-round schedule. 
Berman acknowledged there will be a learning curve at Paramount. 
"The experience that I've had in television and the creative process and having good relationships with creative people and putting together a team that fosters creativity are all transferable skills," Berman told The Associated Press Wednesday. "But I have tremendous humility knowing there is a lot to learn in the film business." 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 31, 2005 
vying for breaks and inside of Pope John upon his information. Because there death in 1963 was profuse,
Media 
had not been such an event Woodward said. The New in the Church in a century, York Times ran 36 columns
continued from page 1 journalists often turned to and the New York Daily 
Church "experts" to help News ran 13 full pages on had never had a Catholic interpret and convey what his life and death. president," Woodward was emerging from the Woodward cited obituary said. sessions. after obituary in which 
There was a sincere con­"A journalist is only as Pope John was called one cern, Woodward said, that good as his sources, espe­of the most popular popes if elected, Kennedy would cially at the in modern take orders from Rome. Vatican," times.
"However you deal 
As the enormity of the Woodward According to 
Council dawned on the said. "The with this Pope ... he Woodward, 
world and the media, journalists is an evangelist. I the public Vatican City was flooded had one eye should expect
think that explains
with reporters from all on the Pope a similar
him more than
over the world, Woodward and the other media out­said. As many as 3,600 on the devel­anything else.'' pouring for journalists passed in and oping factions the death of out of the city during the within the Pope John
Kenneth Woodward 
various council sessions, council." ·Paul II, which 
journalist

mixing with theologians Pope John he said could and scholars. • himself happen within 
"For the journalists and became sort of a celebrity months. for the bishops there it was figure for some media out­"I know what they are simply the best of times," lets like Time magazine, going to say about John Woodward Woodward Paul II because I have said. "Rome is said. He was already read his obituary,"
"A journalist is 
one of those regularly said Woodward. cities in the only as good as his described as a When asked what the world where "shepherd" obituary will read,
sources, especially
in every con­and guardian Woodward was prompt
at the Vatican., 
versation you of Christians with his answer. are expected worldwide. "How ever you deal with to talk about Kenneth Woodward His plea for this Pope ... he is an evan­religion, sex, dialogue dur­gelist," Woodward said. "I
journalist
art and poli­ing the Cuban think that explains him tics." missile crisis more than anything else." 
The meetings were held was widely published, win­behind closed doors, and nin-g him the image of a according to Woodward, peace seeker. Contact Megan O'Neil at journalists were constantly The coverage and praise onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
age." NDSP reported no injuries

Power 
or fires. continued from page 1 Annis said a similar power 
outage incident occurred 
Saturday morning, when a 
transformer went bad. Power through," Annis said. was automatically re-routed, 
Once AEP verified that though it was out in many of everything was the same build­okay on their ings as
"It was awesome.
end, Annis Wednesday's restored power Everyone went incident for 30 to to Notre Dame. crazy and started 45 minutes, 
The DeBartolo Annis said.
yelling.,
Center for the Saint Mary's Performing Arts, Security Depart­Rolfs Sports Matt Houser ment said there Recreation Alumni sophomore were no power Center, Main outage prob-Building, the lems on its Morris Inn, North and South campus. 

Dining Halls, the LaFortune Student Center and part of Hesburgh Library all lost power, among other campus buildings, Annis said. 
Though Notre Dame does generate its own power, it is not able to power all the buildings on campus in such a circumstance. 
"We buy so much from them [AEP] and generate the rest," Annis said. "But generators only supply different critical loads. In a hallway, for example, only every fourth or fifth light will be lit." 
Though unexpected, many individuals on campus were not bothered by the outage. 
"It was awesome. Everyone went crazy and started yelling," said Alumni sopho­more Matt Houser. "I feel it really brings the community together." 
Though many buildings, including at least 13 resi­dence halls, lost power, Annis said that no large problems arose as a result of the out­age. 
"I actually called [Notre Dame Security/Police] to let them know. Then the fire department called because they had somebody stuck in an elevator," Annis said. "But other than that, I have heard nothing about injury or dam-
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
year, including the issue of diversity on campus," White and

White 
continued from page 1 
Mooney's presidency officially began with the school year in August 2004, but she was regu­larly on campus to facilitate the transition in the spring and sum­mer. There was an inauguration ceremony weekend in January which brought hundreds of guests to campus. 
In the fall of 2004, White and Moran faced another challenge when controversy surrounding the annual Pride Week T-shirt erupted on the college campus. The shirt, which mimicked a vin­tage vermouth ad, was perceived by some in the College communi­ty as sexist and racist, and a bad portrayal of the institution. On Nov. 19 the Student Activities Board issued a general apology, but did not mention the shirt. A handful of students who objected to the Pride Week T-shirt staged a silent protest on Nov. 22, demanding an apology from stu­dent government for what they believe to be insensitivity. A sec­ond and more specific apology was issued shortly thereafter and student government hosted several forums in which the identity of the College and its portrayal was discussed with students. 
"We feel_ that our board learned to balance the unexpect­ed challenges that arose this Moran said. "Saint Mary's, along with other institutions, is not alone in dealing with this chal­lenge." 
The Pride Week T-shirt was not the only instance when the issue of diversity at the College arose during the outgoing administra­tion's tenure. On March 15 the Straight and Gay Alliance (SAGA) applied to Board of Governance for official club status at Saint Mary's. White and Moran presided over two emotion-filled BOG meetings in which officers debated the role of such a group at a Catholic institution. White, who does not vote herself, decid­ed to delay the vote one week to allow board members to research the need for an alliance at the College. 
After that week, on March 21, 
SAGA  was  overwhelmingly  
approved.  
White  and  Moran  said  in  

despite of the difficulties they faced while in office, the experi­ence was "very rewarding." 
"We were honored to have served the Student Body this year," White and Moran said. "It has been both a challenging and rewarding experience. We feel good about the work we have done and wish the new adminis­tration our best in their time of leadership." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

Oo CAmpus (.1rAtiUAtioo l1t7eekeotl ~peeiAl tl!}Af11l-16, 100J 
Need Cl -ple~ce for kjOUY fe~V~A-LLtj to stC!tj, Trtj title Sti!crect H-eti!rt Pti!rtsltl CeV~-ter ["B.uLldtli\.g 3:L OY :L:LfiS'5 Oil\. kjOI..(.r CC!V!A.-pUS V!A.CI-pS.] 
we set Cl ~o.oo per persoli\. doli\.ti!Holi\. for title weeR-eli\.ct. 
"'COM6 6AR.LY [Thursdti!tj] -STAY LAT6 [Moli\.dC!t:j]" -Sti!VtA.e dOV\.ti!tWI!\.. 
For reserve~twli\.s pLeti!se cti!LL: PC!uL 6ddtj e~t 5_T-4--63:t-75:t2 or MC!Ykj FDV\.ferR,o tilt 5J'-4--63:L:!)436 

An Evening ofPrayer from Around the World 
Please join us for an evening of 
Christian Taize Prayer 
as part ofa series exploring the beliefs and practices ofthe world-'s greatfait/1 traditions. 
Thursday, March 31, 2005 330 Coleman-Morse Center 7-7:45 pm 
Sponsored by: Graduate Student Union, ND Muslim Student Association, International Student Sen'ices & Activies, and Campus Ministry. 
Thursday, March 31, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 


Police chief resigns a111id scandal 
Associated Press  
AI.BU()Ul\H()UE ­ehief rnsigned Wednesday amid  The police a  abruptly scandal  

involving his department's allegnd mishandling of evi­denen. 
Chin!' Gilbert Gallngos had bnnn under inen~asing lim over possibln long-standing problems 
in the department's evidence room. 
Last year an anonymous e­mail was sent to law enforce­ment offieials elaiming that weapons, drugs and jewelry were missing from the room. That e-mail helped prompt an attornny general's investigation, launched at Gallegos' request. 
Gallegos said he will olli:1r any information he may have to investigators. 
Sam Thompson, a spokes­woman for the attorney gener­al's office, said Gallegos' resig­nation would have no effect on the investigation. 
"This was the chiefs decision ... I think he made the right decision," Albuquerque Mayor Martin Chavez said. 
THE INSTITUTE FOR ETHICAL BUSINESS WORLDWIDE 
Invites you to an open lecture 
"'~Toward the Sustainable Enterprise~~ 
by 

Ray C. Anderson 
Chairman of the Board of Interface, Inc. 
In 1997, Mr. Anderson decided to tnake Interface ""the first 
fully sustainable industrial enterprise, anywhere." The con1pany has reduced_its environmental footprints by tnore than one third, redesigned processes and products, pioneered new technologies and reduced or eliminated waste and hannful etnissions while increasing the use of renewable tnaterials and sources of energy. 
March 31, 2005 4:30p.m. 
Room 160 MCOB 
THE NOTRE DAME CHAMBER PLAYERS 
GEORGlN[ RLSlCK. SOPRANO CAROLYN PLUM.\HR. VIOLIN KARLN BU RANSKo\S, CLLLO jf.Jf JN BLACKLOW. PIANO 
Willi OHlNiliA llfAIU) \'lOLl!>!· KAHIJ!XN I'IL~"AMIR. VIOLII. • ltJ.\l K;>,;nlt.JI•.•\S!< · 1-.ttfliN SCIHI (I"L· Htnr · II Sill' I,IIOil.T Hli'Tf · S<:OTf K\IIITlWI'U, CP,W11NfT · V."ll L l.~V. \)l 'iS N. ( lARlN I I 

fiAYDN-STRING O..UARTLT. 01'. 50, NO.(, "THI. FRO(t SC IIUIH.RT -PIANO 0JII ~1TI.T, 01'. 114 "TilL TROlrr'· R.;\Vl L.-TROIS POtMl.S IJ[ ST[.PHAN[ ...AAU.ARtvtf. Cl!Al.I!-:>SO~ -C II AN SO:-..: PrRPf.TUt:lL.[ 
8:00 P.ft.t .. THlJ RSllAY. A\ARCtl 31. 200.5 
[I II .IliON (\'"·t I ltl U\L :1~ P,..\.fl.H\11.1 C l N II R 1:-0R I Ill rJtUOR.\liNi,, ARh 
F+:'l
-~ 


"Cfl It k UA \tl 
t~t ..t :t~ 'hH ~·:t ·Hf· Mt ·);.p 





La-wyer found guilty in discrimination suit 
Black attorney fired and replaced white jurors 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -New Orleans' first black district attorney discriminated against 43 whites when he fired them en masse and replaced them with blacks upon taking office in 2003, a federal jury decided Wednesday. The jury awarded the employees about $1.8 mil­lion in back pay and damages. 
The jury -made up of eight whites and two blacks ­returned the unanimous ver­dict in the third day of delib­erations in the racial discrimi­nation case against District Attorney Eddie Jordan. 
Jordan acknowledged he wanted to make the office more reflective of the city's racial makeup, but denied he fired whites just because they are white. In fact, he said, he did not know the race of the people fired. 
Under U.S. District Judge Stanwood Duval's instruc­tions, jurors had to find Jordan liable if they conclud­ed the firings were racially motivated. The law bars the mass firing of a specific group, even if the intent is to create diversity. 
Jordan, stoic in the court­room as the verdict was read, told reporters he was disap­pointed and will appeal. 
"We thought the facts as well as the law favored us. I still maintain that I did not use race as a factor in my hir­ing practiees," he said. 
Jordan said tlu~ District Attorney's Office, which is liable for the award, cannot afford to pay the verdiet. It was not immediately clear whether state or city, or both, would ultimately be responsi­ble for paying the money. 
Plaintiffs' attorney Cloment Donelon said he was rdated. "The plaintiffs' civil rights, every single, solitary one of them, were violated," he said. 
"You may be able to fire people, but don't do it because of race. That goes both ways," the attorney said. 
Clemens Herbert, a former investigator who among those fired, said, "What I wanted was a win. Money was not the issue. He was trying to dis­guise racial discrimination through politics, and the jury saw through it." 
The judge could ordM that the fired white workers be reinstated, but la"'Wyers con­sider this unlikely. Sueh man­dates are rare, as they require continuing court supervision. 
• 

The Badin Art Show 
April15-17 
Call for entries!! 
Cash prizes awarded 1st place: $75 2nd place:$50 3rd place: $25 
• 

Open to all students 
All media accepted 
Entries due Aprill3 
Show Opening at 7pm Friday, Aprill5 Prizes awarded at 7:30pm 

Interested? Contact <Kelly.A.Crecelius.l '"'nd.edu · 
• 

Watch for further information coming soon in the Oining Halls 
• 

!. 
page 10 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 31, 2005 


VHl to focus again on the music 
Network vows to return to its roots with month of special programs 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -VHl is getting back to the music -and the music makers. 
After making its name as a powerhouse in music television, VH1 shifted its focus in recent years to pop culture and nostal­gia shows (think "I Love the 80s"). 
Now, it's baek to focusing on the music and those who make it with "VH1's April Music Month," a month of fresh pro­gramming that will offer live performances, music video pre­mieres and specials. 
"VH1 is about music, artists and pop culture," said Christina Norman, the network's presi­dent. "We've been spending so much time on the pop culture aspects; although the music aspects have not gone away, we felt it was time to focus on the music." . 
And the effort seems to be resonating with musicians and performers, who have lined up to participate. 
The music kicks off Saturday with the return of "Storytellers," a 90-minute show that gives musicians a setting to tell the story behind a particular song and then perform the song live before an intimate audience. First up: "Storytellers: Green Day" (10 p.m. EST) which will see the punk trio perform the 13 songs from their critically and commercially acclaimed "American Idiot" album. 
"All of my favorite stories are si'ories behind my favorite songs. It's the true history and story of the band," Green Day's Billie Joe Armstrong told The Associated Press. 
The song Armstrong said he looks forward to telling the audience about is "Jesus of Suburbia," the disturbing por­trait of Bush era suburbia and a turning point for the band dur­ing the recording process. 
Armstrong said he was pleased VH1 has returned the focus to music. 


Bishops survey sex abuse victims 
Associated Press 
The nation's Roman Catholic bishops said Wednesday that they are asking victims of cler­gy sex abuse around the coun­try to fill out a survey on how church leaders ean better help them recover and protect young people from predators in the future. 
Through the Web site www.victim-outreach.com, the bishops are asking victims to evaluate how diocesan officials responded to their abuse claims, what church leaders 
Jersey girl slain after refusing 111an a kiss 
Associated Press ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. -A 15-year-old girl was fatally shot after refusing a man's demand for a kiss, authorities said. The alleged gunman was captured Wednesday night in Washington, D.C. Atlantic County Prosecutor Jeffrey Blitz said Alfred R. Bishop, 21, will be charged with murder in the death of Elisa Hernandez, a high school sophomore. Hernandez had gone to an apartment in her housing complex to visit girlfriends just before midnight Tuesday, Blitz said. Bishop, a friend of the apartment's occupants who stored some of his belongings there, arrived shortly after­ward. After some casual conversa­tion, Bishop tried to get Hernandez to kiss him, but she laughed at him, the prose­cutor said. Bishop then pulled out a pistol, put it to her head -and demanded a kiss, Blitz said. According to witnesses, Hernandez refused, and pushed the gun away twice before Bishop allegedly shot her through the left eye and fled, Blitz said. She died at the scene. 
could have done better and conference, said safeguards how they can support victims have been built in to weed out heal. any fake responses. 
"The horrific experience of The abuse crisis began in being sexually abused is best January 2002 with the case of understood by the survivors of one accused priest in the this crime," said Archbishop Archdiocese of Boston, then Harry Flyrin, chairman of the spread throughout the country Ad Hoc Committee on Sexual and beyond. Abuse for the U.S. Conference Since then, the bishops have of Catholic Bishops. adopted a toughened discipline 
The survey is anonymous. policy dealing with guilty cler­with researchers promising gy, enacted child protection that there will be no way to and victim outreach plans in identify victims who partici­dioceses and removed hun­pate. Sister Mary Ann Walsh, a dreds of accused priests from spokeswoman for the bishops' church work. 

Schiavo case causes conflict within GOP 
Associated Press 
·WASHINGTON -Republic­ans who swear by the princi­ple of states' rights are hav­ing to make some exceptions when it comes to saving Terri Schiavo, or reining in trial lawyers, protecting the sanc­tity of marriage and advanc­ing the part:(s other priori­ties. 
Capping medical malprac­tice payouts, putting in place President Bush's centerpiece education law and moderniz­ing the election system also are among the GOP goals that, critics say, expand fed­eral powers at the expense of states' rights. 
"Our members have raised the alarm" about the tenden­cy of Washington to pre-empt state laws, said Susan Parnas Frederick, who heads the law and criminal justice commit­tee of the National Conference of State Legislatures. 
"We obviously feel that there are times when nation­al actions are necessary," she said. 
But recently, she said, "everything comes down from the federal government whether we like it or not." 
Her bipartisan group has put out its first "Pre-emption Monitor" to warn state legis­lators about federal efforts to usurp their powers. 
It mentions two of the Bush administration's proudest accomplishments: the No Child Left Behind Act, which establishes national educa­tion testing standards, and the recent law that seeks to restrain lawsuit abuse by allowing class-action suits to be moved from state to feder­al courts. 
In addition, there is the 2002 election law that imposed national standards on the states in such areas as registration and provisional balloting. A 2004 law created federal standards for state­issued driver's licenses and personal identification cards. 
On a smaller scale, a law last year pre-empted state concealed weapons laws by giving an across-the-board exemption from those laws for active or retired law enforcement officers. 
The states' rights issue gained prominence when Republicans, frustrated by the refusal of Florida state courts to reverse the decision to remove the feeding tube from the brain-damaged Schiavo, rushed through emergency legislation allow­ing the case to be heard by a federal court. 
Lawmakers, aware that such an issue is traditionally left to the states, wrote the bill so that it applied only to the Schiavo case and did not affect the substantive rights of the states. 

Psychologist 111akes testi111ony in Jackson trial 
Expert explains to jury that afalse claim from 13-year-old boy would be 'extremely rare' 
Associated Press 
SANTA MARIA. Calif. -The psychologist who was the first to tell authorities about claims that Michael Jackson molested a 13-year-old boy testified Wednesday that it would be "extremely rare" for a child that age to make afalse allega­tion. 
Stan Katz, one of the prose­cution's key witnesses, was pro­hibited by Judge Rodney Melville from testifying directly about the credibility of Jackson's accuser or whether he believes the molestation occurred. 
However, Katz said that chil­dren over 5 rarely fabricate claims of molestation. 
He said that accusers who appear to be truthful some­times change their stories and embellish or exaggerate, while "children who make false alle­gations are usually consistent, almost scripted." · 
Jackson's defense has noted inconsistencies in testimony by the accuser and his brother. 
Under cross-examination, Katz acknowledged he has done no research on civil suits involving teenagers in abuse cases, but later testified, "I don't recall any adolescent or preadolescent making claims for profit." 
Jackson, 46, is accused of molesting the boy in 2003 and plying him with alcohol. 
Earlier Wednesday, a flight attendant testified that the boy once showed off an expensive watch the singer gave him and boasted that Jackson would buy him anything. 
Cynthia Bell said the conver­sation took place in 2003 dur­ing a Miami-to-California flight with Jackson and members of the boy's family. 
"He was saying things like, 'Look at what Michael got me,' and, 'These are very expensive watches,"' Bell said. "He did say, 'Michael bought this watch for me and he'll buy me any­thing."' 
Prosecutors contend the watch was a bribe to keep the boy from revealing that Jackson gave him alcohol. The defense contends the boy and his family were out to bilk Jackson. They have portrayed the molestation charges as a shakedown attempt. 
Bell also testified that she served Jackson wine in a Diet Coke can but did not see the boy drink from it, as the prose­cution says happened. 
On Tuesday, Bell said it was her idea to serve Jackson wine in soda cans and it became a routine on all of the pop star's flights, because "Michael Jackson is a very private drinker." She said Jackson was a nervous flier who could not stand turbulence. 
She testified that the boy was rude and unruly throughout the flight, at one point starting a food fight by throwing mashed potatoes at a sleeping doctor who was traveling with Jackson. 
The flight attendant also said the boy had a wide range of unreasonable demands. "His 

AP Michael Jackson appears in court earlier this month. Testimony by a psychologist highlighted trial ac,ivity on Wednesday 
chicken was warm. 'I want a laughter,· and Auchincloss side of coleslaw. I don't want it quipped, "Your honor, may I on the same plate.' ... He was approach the witness?" very demanding throughout the Also testifying was attorney entire flight." she said. William Dickerman, who was 
At one point, prosecutor contacted by the accuser's fam­Gordon Auehincloss asked Bell ily in February 2003 and wrote if she saw Jackson cuddling the letters to Jackson's then-lawyer, boy. She said that she did not Mark Geragos, claiming the think so but that Jackson had family was being subjected to an arm around the boy while surveillance and harassment by listening to music. Jackson associates. 
Auchincloss asked Bell,. He acknowledged on cross­"What do you define as cud­examination that he never dling?" mentioned allegations of 
She hesitated, smiled and molestation, false imprison­said, ''I'd have to show you." · ment or giving wine to children 
The courtroom erupted in in his letters. 
...............______________ 
r--------------------------------­Thursday, March 3 I, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page II 




Sports Page Bar & Grill 
50827 Princess Way Drive, Granger, IN 46530 (574) 247-0000 
Let the Fun Begin 
Sports Page Cruiser 
Sports Page Cruiser will pick up Notre Dame students free ofcharge, and shuttle them to and from Sports Page (Thursday, Friday, and Saturday night). There is a regular bus route available for your convenience: 
1) Castle Point Apartments, 
2) College Park Apartments, 
3) Notre Dame-Library Circle, 
4) Turtle Creek Apartments. 
We can also pick students up at other locations for added conventence. 

Food and Facilities 
·We offer a full menu for lunch and dinner with daily and nightly specials including pizza, steaks, seafood, burgers and much more (also available for carry out) ·Accept reservations any day or night 
• 
Equipped with a banquet room for any occasion (receptions, graduation parties, showers, dinner parties, etc.) 

• 
Caterings ·Outside patio available when in season {equipped with a volleyball court) 


Operation Information 
• Open seven ~ays a week 
Wednesdays-Saturdays, 1 0-3 
• Live band & DJ 

Shuttle running every hour 
Service Begins: Thursday, February 24, 2005, 
10:00 PM 
Order of Stops: 
1. 
Sports Page 0:00 

2. 
Castle Point Appts. 0:15 

3. 
College Park Appts. 0:20 

4. 
Notre Dame, Library Circle 0:25 

5. 
Turtle Creek Appts. 0:30 

6. 
Sports Page 0:45 




Sports Page Shuttle 

Recognizing the large market of Notre Dame students attending local bars and nightclubs, the Sports Page Lounge has invested in a bus and appropriate insurance to transport students to and from their establishment. 
The University of Notre Dame and Student Government do not operate, fund or sponsor the shuttle service. The shuttle bus is owned and operated by the Sports Page Lounge, which has no affiliation with the University of Notre Dame. 

Tl-·f EOBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, March 31, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Vicious circles lead nowhere 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPOIITS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVEIITISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: jim Coulrer CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe adminisuation of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS ';99 2-4000) is published Mond.ty through Friday except during exam ilnd vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $100 for (lne academic year; $55 for one semener. 
The O~Mr is published ;W POSTMASTER . 024 Sourh Dining Hall . Send address corret:ritlm co: Notre Dame, IN 46556·0779 The Observer Ptriodkal postage: paid ar N<ltre Dame P.O. Box779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Ha.ll 
Nont' Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Ob&etver is a member uf the Associated Pre:ili. All reproduction rights ate ra.a-ved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
In his "Life ofGiotto," Vasari tells this story about the great Florentine painter: The pope wished to commission some paintings for St. Peter's, and having heard ofGiotto's growing reputation he sent a courtier to request a sample of his work. 
Peter Wicks 

Once the courtier had arrived in Giotto's Englishman workshop in Florence Abroad and conveyed the pope's wishes, Giotto took a sheet of paper and a brush dipped in red and then with a twist of his hand he drew a perfect circle. 
The pope took Giotto's perfect circle as a sign ofthe artist's greatness. In thinking rather than drawing, howev­er, the art lies in avoiding circles. 
Here is one that you may recognize: 
All the people who voted for President Bush are idiots. We know they're idiots because they voted for Bush, and he's an idiot. We know he's an idiot because only idiots voted for him. 
Once inside the whirlpool there's no get­ting out. Spend enough time at its center and it's easy to forget that there is an out­side. 

I have lost track of the amount of conver­sations I have had-on both sides of the Atlantic -with people who have alluded to Bush's stupidity or his "monstrous nature" as ifthese were established facts, like the Earth orbiting the sun. . 
They are aware than there are those who respect and even admire the man, but the views of such people can be safely dis­missed because no-one of sound judgment could possibly reach such an erroneous conclusion. 
Everything in the argument fits together, but something is wrong with the construc­tion, as in a M.C. Escher drawing. 

Immediately after the election much was made of the red state/blue state divide. There quickly followed a second wave of commentary which turned to the county map and noticed that the real split was betWeen urban and rural voters. While more accurate in once sense, this was still at root a binary analysis, and its simplicity was not a limitation but the source of its appeal. 
The popularity of the red statE-/blue state trope was based not on its geographical analysis, but the way it provided disap­pointed Democrat<> a convenient label for dismissing the recalcitrant inhabitants of "Jesusland" (also known as "The United State ofTexas") as beyond the scope of rea­soned debate. 
Op-ed writers, activists, internet pundits and a disturbing number ofelected politi­cians took the line that while the people who voted for Bush may have been superi­or in number, they were so inferior morally and intellectually as to be in essence a dif­ferent spflcies. 
Two days after the election, Gary Wills wrote in The New York Times that the date of Bush's re-election could henceforth be considered the day "the Enlightenment went out," saying, in effect, that Bush won because intelligent and tolerant Americans had been outnumbered by religious fanat­ics so backwards they have yet to make it to the 18th Century. 
On Wills's telling, Americans, with their "fundamentalist zeal, a rage at secularity, religious intolerance, fear of and hatred for modernity" have come to resemble the members of AI Qaeda and Saddam Hussein's Sunni loyalists. 
"It is often observed that enemies come to resemble each other," Wills notes. Doubtless it was only the strict word limit imposed by The Times that prevented him from explaining how he has managed to avoid a similar fate. 
The rule seems to be that inconsistency by the virtuous is no vice. At a recent rally in Kansas, the new Democratic National Committee Chairman Howard Dean said, "This is a struggle of good and evil. And we're the good." When Bush began using the language of evil to describe terrorists and authoritarian regimes this is a sign of his ideological rigidity, and the fear of moral complexity that he shares with his support­ers. When Dean uses the language of evil to refer to the conservatives in the Republican Party he is just telling it like it is. 
Writing off large sections of the American electorate as religious fanatics is an addic­tive consolation. Oliver Stone has blamed the fhllure of his disastrous biopic Alexander on "a raging fundamentalism in morality in the U.S." (Sure, Oliver, whatever gets you through the night). 
But the political cost to all this is very high, and while the tendency to di<>miss people with whom one disagrees ean be found across the political spectrum, the people who pay the highest prim are those whose policy views put thP.m in a minority. 
Amongst Americaf!S, the invasion of Iraq was popular. You can dismiss those who supported it as dopes, dupes and worse, but you won't win converts that way. 
The majority ofAmericans oppose gay marriage. Calling them homophobes is an eflcctive way of shouting them down in a university or a newsroom, but if you want to change the way people vote in the priva­cy of the polling booth then sooner or later you are going to have to stop calling them names and actually argue with them. 
Political debate is the lifeblood of democ­racy, and ifthat sounds too high-minded then there are other, purely strategic rea­sons to change tone. 
Ifl were a Republican I would have popped open a bottle of champagne when Dean got the Democratic Chairmanship. Whatever campaign slogans the Democrats come up with in 2006,2008 and beyond, right now the real message looks like it will be "Vote Democrat, you Jesus-loving morons!" And it will drive them ever deep­er into the political wilderness. 
Peter l'Vicks is a graduate student in phi­losophy He can be contacted at pwicks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Dome worth fighting for 
Haggling for an extra commencement ticket is the only thing I thought I'd be negotiating with the administration for during my final days at this great school. Ironically, however, with massive support from classmates, I find myself enmeshed in talks of much greater significance. On March 24, the distinguished and genuine Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves wrote in The Observer: "Unfortunately, there is no way it [the Dome project] could be avoided." I could not agree more. 
However, the question is not whether the Dome should remain broken and unfixed. Rather, the question that fellow classmates have asked me is whether there is a way to restore the Dome for our posterity, yet still allow graduates a picture-perfect view of the most recognized university land­mark in the world. 
In a meeting with Affleck-Graves last Wednesday, Adam Istvan drafted a compromise that we believed would allow for the weather-contingent aspects of the dome project to be fin­ished by the absolute Oct. 1 "frost-deadline" and still allow for the Dome to be unfettered graduation weekend. 
The compromise allowed for continued work on the dome so as not to lose vital time in April that is needed to complete this time's more extensive project. We hoped it would take away at most two or three weeks, which would place the entire project's completion date right at the end of September. 
Regrettably, Affleck-Graves called me March 24 to say the arrangement would actually add an extra four weeks to the project; thus the last scaffold would not come down until mid­October-two weeks too late. 
If I was a multi-millionaire, I'd-give several hundred thou­sand dollars to Conrad Schmitt Studios to hire more workers and tools to be able to make the compromise arrangement work. Alas, I am not rich -I am just one student with a lot of loans. Nonetheless, when people accuse me of'wasting my time, I emphatically disagree. For when it comes my turn to switch the tassel, I'd much rather know that every stone was flipped in an effort to work positively with my fellow class­mates for the common good of our graduation and for the University of Our Lady. 
After all, each of us has that special loved one who can't wait to see Notre Dame. Thus I will continue working with fellow seniors, student government folks and the administra­tion to make the best of this situation. Nonetheless, I just wish that 12th person who has been there all of the way can experience that same awesome sight that we have had during 
these past four years ­gold and blue.  shining in the heavens, gleaming  
Darrell Scott senior class president March 28  

News Sports Eileen Duffy Mike Gilloon 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Katie Perry Bobby Griffin Jarrett Lantz Ken Fowler 
"Immature love says: '[ love you 


Submit aLetter
. . . .. ,,. ,, ,., ..·.. ,.. . :: ...~:-·..-.. ·=·=·>.-.:~: . . ·'· . . ·.:

Viewpoint Scene Were you impressed with 
because I need you.' Mature love
Caroline Murphy Kenyatta Storin 
Charlie Weis at his dorm visits? 
says: 'I need you because
Graphics 
I love you. "'


to the Editor at
Kelly MacDonald 
Vote today by 5 p.m. at 
Erich Fromm
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
German philosopher 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Thursday, March 31, 2005 page 13 
Putting the band back together 
Sonwthing is in the air in South Bond and it's not just a crisp Midwnstnrn March breeze. Tho atmosphPrn around us is thiek with a tangible I'lllotion. not cloud <~over. ;\s thn cahmdar inl(>rms us. we'vn entered the lwart of springtime. 
But this year in the 'Bond it's Bob Masters as much a poetic nxpnrinnco, with all its ston~otypos of 
I Fall on the 
renewal and rognrwration, as 
Hoor and I 
a li toral rnntnorological sea-Laughing 
son. 
Wnather and dato aside, I bnlinvn thoro has bonn a spring-like rmmissanee at Notre Damn, oru~ in tiH• hnarts of its loyal sons and daughters rat.lwr than its grass and trnes or rain showers and May flowPrs. · 
It hogan subtly, with only a seemingly rabid few admitting to a horn-again fm~ling. My brother is o1w sud1 renewed dovoh111 and has since bnrome almost an l•:vangdir.itl, witnessing his <mee-again inspirnd Iilith to anyone who will Iiston. 
But what was oncn a small kindling burning in tho spirit of a small number has turned into a groat lin~ of nwitalization. I'm sure I'm not tho only on1~ who has noticed that our long-sulliwing cam pus has the fooling of a tent-revival mooting lalnly. 
Wlwrn wern you whnn you round yoursolf start­ing to IH~IiPVP again? Was it in your dorm's social loung<\ park1~d to the gills with lHO ol'your frionds'! l>id you skip a dass only to discover your faith had been chargmllike a cell phonn battnry hy an aftornoon lecturn in DeBartolo? Maybn, like nw, your too-long dormant belief was rodiscov­orml in the basmnnnt of the Knights of Columbus building. 
;\s always in matters of belief, the where is less important than the when. i\nd the who .. 
This nnwly tapped llowing well-spring of eonvie­lions would make Billy Graham blush. l•:verywlwro one looks nnw believers arn being born and old ones are coming back into the fold. 
Ev1m those few who were angry -those l'or­nwrly faithful voiens who found morn comfort in complaint than community-seem to have silent­ly givon thnir mnsent to the movement, rojoining thnir fnllow bnlievers as one body of devotion. 
Our very campus landscape seems to be feeling the same rogenerat.ive energios as the students, faculty, stall' and alumni that traverse it. New buildings are going up, from Hammes Mowbray to .Jordan to Guglielmino, and new plans are being drawn as fast as can bn imagined f(>r as yet more additions to our architectural family. 
Indeed, the great and famous symbol of our Univ1wsity, tlw Golden Dome itself,js undergoing a make-ovnr and when the necessary improvements are made, Our Lady will shine brighter than ever before. 
In short, Spring 2005 has been a semester of rngeneration, the likes ofwhkh I cannot recall over the past night years. ;\II of this renewal, I believe, is tho result of a new shepherd tending to his !lock. In faet, this entire rebirth was set in motion in mid-Dneember. 
In the deepest dark of winter, brave men rnade a commitment to renewal, a pledge to rnnaissaneP -a return to Notre Dame. 
For President-Eleet Father John Jenkins so loved the University that hn gave to them Charlie Wnis. 
Like a man on a mission of destiny, our new coach has set about on a task of conversion. Without a doubt, he has met with fabulous sue­cess. 
From dorm lounges and lecture halls to the Knights of Columbus building, Coach Weis has made it a point to wake up the echoes that once roared in South Bend. I believe in these echoes, those ghosts. 
When I was a child I could not imagine that the Irish could ever lose a football game. We were Notre Dame and what though tho odds, we'd win over all. But during eight years oflowored expec­tations, my boyish faith underwent a crisis of diminishment. Whither had fled the stun· of dreams, the stun· of I loltz and Mirer, Hocket and Brown'? 
After a long exile, we've found a leader who, like many of us, wears his Irish heart on his sleeve. Then~'s been talk of national champi­onships, talk of dismantling the mighty Trojans of 
usc. 

After eight long seasons of expecting the least, this renewed faith in the magic in the sound of our name is enough to make a man come back to the light. 
Lou I loltz used to talk about believing in the spirit of Notre Dame. After nearly a decade in the desert, the spirit's coming back. 
We born-agains are not delusional. We know the kind of recommitment required in putting the light back in the Irish will take t.ime. But as Spring Football begins this week, it feels good to believe in the blue and gold again. 
Like the inspired mission of Jack and Elwood Blues in The Blues Brothers failure is not an option. 
We're putting the band back together. We're on a mission from Weis. 
Bob Masters is a senior English major. He can be contacted at amasters@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Spring visitation prospects arrive 
The Of'lice of Undergraduate Admissions would liko to recognize and we leo me the 154 prospective African American, ;\sian American, Latino and Native ;\merkan students visiting <·.am pus to attend this year's Spring Visitation Weekend. We havn specilic.ally designed the weekend to address the questions and eoneerns of prospective students from under-mpresnnted studnnt populatious. We hope that these talented young men and women will gain valu­able insight into the several aspects of campus life through convM­sations and interaction with faculty, stall', alumni and (~urrnnt stu­dents, and that their decision to enroll at Notre l>ame will be based upon positive personal experience. 
We know that success requires commitment from all members of the Notre Dame community. With that in mind, we antidpat<~ enrolling the most diverse and talented freshman dass in our his­tory. 
Our Spring Visitation Weoknnd begins today and will oxtend through April 3. We dearly need everybody's hnlp in making this an encouraging event for these potential rnmnb<H'S of our student body. Gil Martinez, Assistant Direetor and Diversity Hocruitnwnt Coordinator, Son Nguyen, Counselor and Assistant Heeruitment Coordinator, along with our student diversity coordinators St<wen Arevalo, Covington Doan, Krystal I Iardy and Lakota Mowror, havn been working diligently on the event. 
I want to share with all the members of the Notrn Damn mmrnu­nity a letter that appearPCI in The Observer live ynars ago that I feel captures tho essenee of the program. It was writtm1 by Cindy Santana, one of our Assistant Directors of Admissions: 
"The main purpose of Spring Visitation Weekend is to bring stu­dents here who may not be fortunate enough to visit the campus on their own as well as high talent diversity studonts that may not be considering Notre Dame as their first choien. This is an oppor­tunity for students to decide, for themselves, whnther or not Notrn Dame is their match. In no way are we trying to sell Notrn Dame. Spring Visitation is not a show. We hope that students leave Notrn Dame knowing that we have answered all of thnir unanswornd questions. We also hope to clarify all of the miseoncepiions of Uris place by exposing them to a taste of the different eultural events that take place throughout the year. The most important thing, though, that we be supported by the Notrn Dame eommunity, as an office that is here to help the University as a whole. There is so much efl'ort that is put into this weekend, and we work nxtrmnnly hard to improve it every year. The only way to inerease diversity on this campus is to have as many people as possible involved in the recruitment proeess. It is important to know that without the support of the community, we are never going to improve the diversity of this campus." 
When Cindy wrote the above letter, our First Year class was 16 percent ethnic minority students. This past fall w<~ enrolled 22 pnr­eent. Our Lady's University has made a tremendous eommitment to excellence in all that we do, including diversity. With everybody's help we can make Notre Dame a bettor Notre Dame. 
Daniel J. Saracino 
Assistant Provost for Enrollment 
March 28 
U-WIRE 
• 

.Isn't real life enough? 
";\merican Idol." "Survivor." "The Heal World." "Nnwlywnds." "The Apprentice." ";\merica's Next Top Mod1~l." "Tho Bachelor." "The Bachelorette." "The Osbournns." "Making the Band." "Wife Swap." "The Simple Lifo." "Tho ;\shlee Simpson Show." The list of roality tohwision shows that we as i\nwrkans watch goes on and on. Andrea 
You don't think ;\mnrka is that Cortland obsessed with reality television'! Think it's just a f(lW TV shows here Rutgers and Uwrn'! Think again. Since reality University TV hit tho air, morn than 300 difl'er­Daily Targum ent shows have aired, all of whieh fall into the genre of reality television. Compared to Canada's two shows, Australia's two shows and the United Kingdom's 20 shows, I would think that such a numbnr qualifies reality television as an American obsession. 
The question then is: Why do we as ;\merieans love reality television so much? What aspect is it about reali­ty television that fascinates us? Not surprisingly, I'm not tho first porson to pose this question. In fact, psycholo­gists nationwide have bogun to examine the American fascination with rnality television. There was even an artide in Psychology Today about this very subject. Those profnssionals have ofl'ered quite a few theories about the rationale for such a phenomenon. 
Primarily, let me state that I, too, have a special place in my heart for reality television. I didn't miss an episode of "America's Next Top Model" last season, and I'm very into "American Idol" this season. 
One belief I have held for quite some time is that we love to watch reality television because it makes us feel better about ourselves. Cynical, I know, but sadly, it's true. We watched Ashlee Simpson get caught lip-synch­ing. We constantly see Coral and Tonya and Shane and C.T., and an innumerable slew of others, battle it out and make fools of themselves on the countless Heal World/Road Hules challenges. 
We see people cry. We see people cheat. We see eating disorders. We hear people make unbelievably asinine remarks. Reality television provides us with the oppor­tunity to say, "Wow, these people are really messed up! I'm saner than this!" Not only is such a theory disheart­ening, I honestly don't believe that it's our primary rea­son for watching reality television. Sure, it's an added bonus to be reminded that you're not the only American who isn't perfect, but the good-hearted person among us cynics would surely think there's something more. 
Maybe it's that we thrive on competition -and noth­ing brings out competitive nature in people quite like a national television audience. 
Heality television really puts its participants in a situa­tion where they have to be cutthroat and aggressive in order to survive, and many of the contestants rise to the occasion. 
It's thrilling for us to see that people a lot like our­selves can be on television, can have contact with Tyra Banks and Sean Combs and Paula i\bdul, ean have raw, untapped talent and can make a lot of cash, regardless of their family problems, poor upbringings, relationship issues and exposed and exaggerated flaws. 
But the real reason I think we like reality telnvision so much is the reason that I like reality television -it gives us the opportunity to step out of our immediate life and into someone else's. It's real life, just not our real life. For just one hour, we can think about whether Bo or Anwar will get cut tonight or whnthor Nadia's voice was flat on that last song and not about the war in Iraq, getting into graduate school, Torri Schiavo and our problems with our significant othor. It makes us forget that we're lonely or exhausted or strnssod out or frus­trated. All the while, we're seeing other people who arn all of those things as well -and when the hour of reali­ty television is over, we're ready to resume our lives. 
This column originally appeared on March 30 in the Daily Targum, the daily publication at Rutgers University. 
The views expressed in this column are those r~f the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Tl·lE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 14 
Thursday, March 31, 2005 
CONCERT PREVIEW 

'Raices' makes history of its own 
The 15th annual Latin Expressions looks to the past to break new ground 
By CHRISTIE BOLSEN Assistant Scene Editor 

At 15 years old, Latin Expressions is not going through a rebellious adolescent phase -this year it is going back to its roots. 
The name of the 15th annual show is "Raices," which translates into "roots." Friday night, the acts that take the stage will pay homage to the past, where each Latin Expressions was an exciting display of multicultural talent, as well as bring new flavor in showcasing Latino culture at Notre Dame. 
Senior April Garcia, who was assistant director her freshman and sophomore year and has been director the past two years, said that the caliber of the acts this year's is the highest she has ever seen. With so many talented singers and dancers auditioning for a chance to per­form it made the selection process over­whelming and diflicult, but she said that all of the ehosen aets are exeiting for dif­ferent reasons. 
One of her favorite aets will be Maehetes, a traditional dance from the state of Jaliseo that will be performed by Ballet Folklorieo with aetual machetes. It's a danee that has been tossed around in the past as a potential act, but hasn't been exeeuted for the show until this year. It featun~s very real 18-inch knives and a lot of teamwork and trust. 
"It's· an amazing thing to watch them do," Garda said. "I don't think there's any other aet in the show that's so based on teamwork. It's like you're so worried about your partner -you don't want to sliee off your own hand, but you don't want to slice ofT your partner's either." 
Another aet, Dale con Todo, will high­light the diversity in the produetion. This danee features couples dancing with a Puerto Rican influence, with traditional eostumes as well as modern ones. Since there have been sentiments in the past that the show is too focused on Mexican culture, Garcia was glad that such an impressive dance group was able to influ-· ence the branehing out of Latin Expressions. 
The inelusion of Projeet Fresh is also likely to generate enthusiasm, since this new group has been a erowd favorite since its reeent inception. The group does hip-hop, b-boy, popping and more, ofTer­ing to bring in a Latin influence for this show's dynamic. 
"Being their first year: in existenee, they've been able to make a name for themselves pretty quiekly," said Garda. 
The last act of the show -another innovative addition -is a Selena medley, which honors the Tejano singer who was killed 1 0 years ago on March 31 , 1995. The show features Yadira Huerta (singer and the show's assistant direetor). Antonio Hivas (lead eleetrie guitar), Luis Silva (electric bass), Lukas Mendoza (drums), Alfredo Tuesta (percussion) and Elizabeth Robles (keyboard). The group of sophomores, who have never played together before, will perform a medley of Selena's songs. 
"For a lot of people, and even me per­sonally, she was the person who really encouraged me to dance and to sing in Spanish and to figure out what she was saying in Spanish," Garcia said of the slain bilingual star. "It's one of the best acts I've seen in my time here -hands down. We want people to be standing up and singing and daneing by the time they leave." 
This year's Latin Expressions will be like no other before it. Dennis Bonilla, producer, said that this is his fifth show since he went to one his senior year of high sehool during a visit. He said that the production has eome a long way since the show he saw in high school because it is more diverse in the Latino community. 
"It's my fmal year, and I feel that we've finally come up with a show that's fully diverse and encompasses something for everyone -dance, song, poetry," Bonilla said. "It's just a change of paee; it's very entertaining and artistic but at the same time there's meaning behind it." 
The vibe of this year's eolorful collection of performances will be different than in years past for other reasons, including the faet that the venue at Palais Royale has never been used for Latin Expressions before. The set-up and the types of acts will also lend to the new feel to the show. 
"We hope that the audienee under-

stands why we're doing it," Gareia said. "We really want to show big appreciation to the past 15 years and all the work and ideas that people put into it." 
Bonilla said that one of the most posi­tive aspects of Latin Expressions is that it is a learning experience. Audience mem­bers have the opportunity to learn about personal views and opinions as well as where difTerent people eome from, but it is not like being taught because it is enjoyable. 
"We feel we do a good job of expressing ourselves and the eommunity, but we don't limit anyone because the audienee is of all raees," Bonilla said. 
While the show is multicultural in nature, Gareia expressed the same view that it was meant to appeal to all people of all ethnidties, not just those partidpat­ing. 
"It's a good time to see the person who sits next to you in elass, their seeret tal­ent. Whether it be the amazing poet that you never knew existed, or the phenome­nal dancer, or the knock-your-soeks-off singer that you never knew, and to see a eulture expressed that way ... I almost feel like it's a big party," Garcia said. 
Garcia said that the point of putting on the show during Spring Visitation week­end was not to mislead prospeetive stu­dents into thinking Notre Dame is more diverse than it is, but to show that eulture does exist on campus. 
"Notre Dame isn't like this every week­end, but I think it's important to show what we are capable of," Garcia said. "And what is available to them here ... you come to Spring Vis., you go to Latin Expressions and you might think, I like to dance like that too, or I like that kind of music, or I love that song -I think that's really important." 
Latin Expressions 2005, "Haices," is sold out and will be on Friday at 7 p.m. For those that need transportation to Palais Jft>yale, buses start running at 6 
p.m. at Library Circle. 
Contact Christie Boisen at cbolsen@nd.edu 



3) MATI SWEENEY~ 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Thursday, March 31, 2005 
page 15 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
Unwritten Law's latest better left unwritten 
By MICHELE JEFFERS 
Scene Mu~ic Critic 
With tho rPCmlt nd•Htsn of its sixth <II h u m , "II n r o 's t. o t h n Mor11 i11 g, " Unwritll~n Law's latnst bid upon the publit: makns orw want to lobby for thn album to lw rnpnalnd. 
Back in tlw narly 11JCJ()s, Unwritten Law blossonwd forth from the fnrlile skatn-punk gardnn of San Diego. As orw of t.lw fordathnrs of the pop-punk gnnrn, Unwritlnn Law hnlpml load the musical rnvolution against the boy bands that worn tyrannizing THL viPwnrs at~ross tlw country. 
Virtory was dnarly won in 2002 wlwn tlw nntrnatnd allins, Nnw Found <ilory and .Jimmy 1\at World, savnd tlw musical lwyday by pointing t.lwir mus­knts toward tlw i r !HHl a z z In d wnll­groonwd fons, forcing thnm to scram. 
With tlw immnnsn popularity of tho singl•~ "Snoin' Hnd" from the album "Elva," it was surprising that Unwritten Law did not f'loat as well in the mainstream as its counterparts. The band took time ofT and n~leased a recording of acoustic tracks from its porformancn on MTV's "Music in High Places," leaving fans hungry for morn. However, the band's latest release may cause some fans to lose their appetite.­
The al1'l1m1 features an array of gui­tar-heavy, vocally drivnn songs that ullirnatnly fail to impress. It begins with an awkward electronic introduc­tion, sngueing into two rough and turnbln songs, "Get Up" and "Celebration Song." Amid the filler thnre aro a couple songs that will get one's lwei tapping. "Because of You" and "I Likn the Way" feature catchy nwlodios. Tho single "Save Me" moves more slowly than the rest of' the songs, but tho song retains extra zest by interspersing a jaunty chorus in bntweon the instrumt~ntally naked verses. Once this song is in one's head it will stay there whether one likes it or not. 

"We felt like eaeh of' our songs have been writton and played really Wf111, but they haven 'l been that cohesive as a piece from front to back. This time, we're really making sut·e that all the songs arn f'usod together, so it stands as one piece of' music, with a really defined sound as well," lead singer Scott Husso said in an interview on hiponline.com. 
It is true that earlier albums had a more random and uneven feel, hut it really did not matter because tho songs were all prelt.y good. When recording this album, it appears that the band made tho assumption that its audinnco lacks an attention span of' more than three minut•~s because every single song is practically tho same. llowover, Husso prevents total boredom through his rambunctious and punching voeals that tireLessly endures round af'tnr round. 
The album tenters on the verge of making one believe it has meaning, hut insuf'forable lyries and recycled rifTs prevent one from making that mistake. Beyond implying that the men of Unwritten Law skipped class during D.A.H.E., the album's artwork and lyrics imply a confused, and at times awkwardly obsessive, relation­ship with drugs. 
Whether Husso sadly believes he is increasing street credibility or hang­ing on to a wild youth with these ref­erences, or whether he is actually at a point in his lif'e where he wants to feel something more than what numbing ehemieals can offer him, remains to 

Photo courtesy of unwrittenlaw.com 

Despite Unwritten Law's history of creative albums, "Here's to the Morning" Is a dull and disappointing release. 
be senn. llowevnr, listnrwrs will not lose sleep over it hncausn thn album does not nven have onn spoonful to help the songs go down. 
This review may seem unfairly harsh, but a band with sueh longevity and history of creative albums should be hold to a higher standard. "Here's to the Morning" is not egregiously bitd, but the $15 one would shnll out for it would be better spent on a bur­rito and a couple of sea-monkeys. 
Contact Michele Jeffers at mjeffers@nd.edu 

Decemberists release best album yet 
By KERRY O'CONNOR 
Scene Music Critic 
If' roek 'n' roll had existnd in pre-revofu­tionary Franco, it would have sounded like this. The Decemberists' new album brings a new layf1r of maturity to its sto­rylldling, leaving aceflssible aecounts of love and growth behind for theatrical talns of fktion told with a historical baek­drop. 
Singnr/songwritnr Colin Mnloy formed Tlw DecPrnborists in Portland f(JUr years ago, tTnating a lit•wary indio-pop quintnt that rosn quickly to rritical acclaim. Tlw titiP of l.lw band's rwwost album, "Pil'arnsquo" -a rarn adjnctivo rnlating to adventure storil~s starring roguish anti­lwrons-gives an indkation of the band's quirky, obscure and intelligent nature. 
The songs on the Decemberists' third full-length are tinged with a wisdom and sophistication rarely found in roek albums. The songs seem urgent, pressing and captivating. Colin Meloy captures one with his voice, forcing one to listen, and he does not disappoint. However, The Decemberists is not to be confused with other bands with a similar singer-song­writer formula. This album is one that would remain intriguing even if there wtwn no lyrics at all. There are an incred­ible number of instruments mixed into each track -guitars, violins, accordions and several other instruments most musi­cians do not oven know exist. The rnusie driw~s Meloy's mnlodies d·own paths not visitnd on prnvious Decornberists rncords. 
Tlw album begins with "La Infanta," a crashing, dark, pulsating song about a pirate ship that sets a pieturnsque scene for the rest of the album. The songs are eclectie -each experiments with a dif­ferent genre. 

As is evident on "We Both Go Down Together," Meloy could write a catchy pop song if he liked, and this is the closest thing ofl'ered. It sounds like a sincere love song but is aetually written about a cou­ple from dilTonmt social classes who jump from a difl' when they realize they cannot love each other in life. 
The Decemberists hit perfection stw!1ral 
times o~1 the albu.~l, thou~h it ha.s,i~s share of excesses. Bagman s Gambrt rs a seven-minute epic, starting with an acoustic guitar before erashing into full swing. The song dimaxns minutes later with a eacophonous instrumnntal melt­down that brings tho song full circle with an acoustic finish. It is ineredibly alluring and oll'ers glimpses or musical genius, but fnels too ambitious at some points. 
Furthermore, some of tl.w songs feel like Meloy tried to squeeze one too many verses in -a song that sounds like heav­en in the first minute might seem tortur­ous ny thn fif'th or sixth. Sueh is the ease wilh tho nine-minute "Mariner's Hnvnngn Song," whieh of'f'nrs an interesting aes­thetic but sounds too mueh like it bnlongs on a soundtrack io a musieal. llowtwer, preceded by the album's masterpinee "On The Bus Mall," it is easy to overlook the small misstep. 
The Decemberists are known for the precious, immediately personal story-

Photo courtesy of decemberists.com 

The Decemberists' "Picaresque" Is a quirky and eclectic album that utilizes a variety of Instruments. 
songs on its first two albums (SI'I' "Calif'ornia Onn"), but with "l'icarnsque" it is evident th1~ band has s11t upon sonw­thing morn univ•~rsal, and with this eonws an increasl'd lnvel of •~omplPxity to ~~ope with. This is not to say tho songs an~ nol inerndibly appmtling-it is only a matter of'whirh lkt~emberists' style is prnf'•~rr·Pd. 
"Piearesque" is thn Decnrnlwrists in perfect stride, evolving somewhat pre­dictably but ultimat•~ly agreeably. If' this is not the Deeernbnrists' rnasterpieee, it is awf'ully dose. 
Contact Kerry O'Connor at koconnll@nd.edu 
NO BONNIE 'PRINCE' BILLY~ Superwolf 4) LCD SOUNDSYSTEM • LCD Soundsystem 5) M83 • Before the Dawn Heals Us 
_;,.,., ......... 'dim 'b.. 
Thursday, March 31, 2005

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 
Parker's 28 enough to defeat Sonics by 13 
Duncan-less Spurs match team record with 34 home wins this season 
Associated Press burst for San Antonio, which led 51-35 at halftime. 
SAN ANTONIO -Tony Parker Parker led all scorers with 16 scored 28 points and the San at the break on 7 -for-1 0 shoot­Antonio Spurs let a 20-point ing. fourth-quarter lead dwindle to 1 0 before holding off the Seattle Dallas 112, Boston 100 SuperSonics 89-76 Wednesday When it came to finishing off night. the Boston Celtics, the high-scor­
A three-point play by Seattle's ing Dallas Mavericks turned to Honald Murray midway through an unlikely source: defense. the fourth quarter cut the Spurs' Dallas used a 22-6 run early in lead to 75-65. Parker then made the fourth quarter to break open two free throws and a layup, and a close game and extend the Brent Barry tipped in his own Celtics' losing streak to four missed layup to put San Antonio games Wednesday night. back up by 16 points with about "We worked on being able to four minutes left. dose out games early in the sea­
Seattle coach Nate McMillan son defensively," said Dirk soon sat down star guard Hay Nowitzki, who led Dallas with 36 Allen, who was pestered defen­points. "Offense will come and sively all night by Bruce Bowen, go, but defense is what wins and the SuperSonics didn't games down the stretch. Five or threaten again. six good solid minutes on 
Manu Ginobili had 15 points defense set the tone in the fourth for the Spurs. whose 34th home quarter." victory matched the team Keith Van Horn added 21 for record. the Mavericks, who won for the 
Allen scored 14 points on 6-ninth time in 11 games and con­ror-1 7 shooting, with half of tinued to excel on the road. They those baskets coming in the have league's third-best road opening period. Murray scored record at 24-11. B points of his team-high 17 Since winning 11 of 12 after points in the fourth quarter, and acquiring Antoine Walker, the Nick Collison, Antonio Daniels Celtics and their star have and Dami.en Wilkins each added slumped. WaLKer has shot just 11 points for Seattle. 33 percent during the four-game 
Neither team was at full slide. strength in the front court. San After Hicky Davis cut the Antonio went without Tim Mavericks' lead to 77-76 with Duncan (right ankle sprain) for 11:15 left, Van Horn, Josh the ftfth consecutive game, while Howard and Jerry Stackhouse backup Carlos Arroyo (flu) Even with the victory, Heard Othella Harrington added 16 Seattle's Rashard Lewis (right combined to score 17 points dur­watching from home, Tayshaun was ready to hand the job back points and eight rebounds and foot bruise) sat out for a second ing the pivotal run, giving Dallas Prince and Lindsey Hunter split to Brown. Jannero Pargo also scored 16 for straight night. its biggest lead of the game at the playmaking duties the Bulls, who won their seventh 
The Spurs established them­99-82. Wednesday night as Detroit Chicago 102, Charlotte 99 straight game despite being selves at the opening tip, when ~ The Celtics pulled to within pulled away. Ben Gordon showed Emeka without their top two scorers. Ginobili grabbed the ball and 101-92 with 2:12 remaining on a "We were a little down at half­Okafor why the Rookie of the Eddy Curry was a late scratch · took it in for a spinning reverse runner by Walker, but Nowitzki time," Prince said. "But we knew Year award is still up for grabs. with flu-like symptoms, while layup. converted two three-point plays we had to respond." Gordon scored 22 of his Kirk Hinrich missed his fifth 
San Antonio scored its first in the ·next minute to put the Detroit, which had lost four of career-high 35 points in the straight game with a strained dozen baskets in the paint and game out of reach. its previous five games, was fourth quarter Wednesday night left hamstring. quickly built a double-digit lead, "I thought we played great coached by assistant Gar Heard to lead the Chicago Bulls over The Bulls, who came into the while on defense the Spurs con­defense when we needed to," for the 10th straight game as the Charlotte Bobcats for the game leading the NBA with 39.2 fined Seattle's offense to the Stackhouse said. "We were the Larry Brown recovers from uri­Bulls' seventh straight win. bench points per game, rode the perimeter. Seattle shot 6-for-19 better defensive team tonight nary-tract surgery. Brown is Gordon drained a tie-breaking 8-of-12 fourth-quarter shooting (32 percent) in the first period, and that made the difference." expected back for Friday's game 3-pointer with 42.8 seconds left, of Gordon, who's also a candi­with only six of its 18 points against the Clippers. then gave Chicago a 101-97 lead date for Sixth Man of the Year. 
< coming inside. Detroit 99, Sacramento 82 "When Lindsey was out there, on another 3 with 21.7 seconds "I thought they outplayed us An 11-foot baseline jumper by The Detroit Pistons didn't have we were able to be more aggres­left. . most of the game, but Ben just Vitaly Potapenko capped a 9-0 either of their top two point sive on defense, but we knew he "I was just feeling it," said got hot down the stretch," Bulls Seattle run early in the second guards for the second half. The couldn't play all 24 minutes," Gordon, who scored the Bulls" coach Scott Skiles said. "He's a that cut the Spurs' lead to 31-27. Sacramento Kings couldn't take Heard said. "So we put Tay on final 16 points. "I was getting very, very good shooter. There Ginobili then isolated on rookie advantage. the ball and had Rip (Richard good looks, I was freeing myself are very few guys who can shoot Wilkins and beat him with a With Chauncey Billups ejected Hamilton) guard their point. It up, and all I needed was a split like him and that are not afraid driving layup to start a 16-4 late in the second quarter and worked pretty well." second." to take big shots." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. w 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Clean homes close to ND. 2·8 Close to ND Excellent area. 19237 Two story house completely remod· www.andersonNDrentals.com bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask Cleveland,6-7bdrm; 202 E. Cripe eled 2003. Ready for 2005-06 WANTED FoR RENT about FREE student rent program. 4bdrm; 222 E. Willow 3bdrm. school year. Off street parking Blue & Gold Homes 2773097 includes motion sensor light for 
FoR SALE 

Catholic family offering full time DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW (574}250-7653. security. Four individually locked summer childcare opportunity; LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 Room for rent. Very nice apt.com· bedrooms, six blocks from Notre OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE. 4 4 children SCHOOL YEAR 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING plex 10 min. from campus. Dame, bus stop in front of house, rm, 2 bath. For details ages 6 to 12; ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT WELL DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 $350/mo.(517)97 4-6225. surrounded by other student hous-fimbel.1 @nd.edu or 574-261-0900. Scottsdale Mall area; MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR S.B. AVE -605 ST. PETER CALL ing, Laundromat next door 
CAMPUS. 532-1408 HOUSE FOR RENT: 05-06 year. 3-(drycleaning also),basement avail· 2000 Tracker. 26,000 miles. $5200. 
7:30 am to 4:30 pm; 2·5·7-8 BEDROOM HOUSES. MMMRENTALS.COM 5 bdrms. Close to ND. Indoor able for storage of bicycles, lug-634-4422. wages negotiable; STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS, Basketball Court. gage, trunks, etc., new furnace and non smoker; SECURITY SYSTEMS, WASHER, 6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK 272-3126 or 273-9473. central air, new kitchen including own transportation needed. DRYERS. MAINTENANCE STAFF FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER new stove and refrigerator, large liv-PERSONAL 
ON CALL. MONTH + DEP. STAFF AND FAG-3 bdrm house, nicely furnished. 417 ing room for TV or entertaining, free Call Maureen ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006-ULTY ONLY. Napoleon (off ND Ave.)2 min. from trash removal. Can I ask who's calling? 360-1738. 2007 SCHOOL YEAR -CALL BRUCE 876-3537. ND. $1100/mo. 2 roommates/1 lam-Call 289·4071. It's George Bush 
2-3-4-5-6-7-8·10 BEDROOMS. ily. Call 299-9428. Childcare for 10 and 13 year old HOUSES GOING QUICK. 2-3 bdrm houses avail. now and 05-NEED HOUSING FOR 2005-06? This game is called on account of after school (3-6) and summer (10-06. Close to ND. Call 276-2333. 5-7 BDRMS.$195/PERSON.SUM-Nice Rental Home avail. for 2 stu· scotch. 6). VISIT OUR WEBSITE Omni Properties MER OR 05/06. dents. 9/12mo. lease avail. Fully Nonsmoker. WASHER/DRYER. furnished. All appliances, utilities, He uses his thigh as an anvil references and reliable car essen-WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CORBY ST. HOUSE 4 RENT. MAY-329-0308 cable TV & high speed internet tial. CONTACT: KRAMER JULY. CALL 284-5223. included. Off street parking. He sired an entire baseball team Call or email 574-234-2436 4 Rooms,Graduation,3 miles 3.5 miles from ND . Violet at OR 2,4 & 5 B-Rooms,close to campus, ND.Best location. in nice area. He drives an ice cream truck cov· 243-3466 or call 234-9923, $465/mo/student. ered in skulls 
vbloom @nd.edu 574-315-5032. ask for Rod. 287-4545 574-656·8695. 

Thursday, March 31, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA TOURNAMENT 

Baylor center Steffanle Blackmon, left, smothers Minnesota center Janel McCarville during the Bears' 64-57 win March 26. 
Bears boost image of Baylor athletics 
School smiling over recent success after gloomy past year 
Associatcc.l Press 
Wi\CO, Tx. -Th~~ nwntion of Baylor sports so of'lnn has nvoknd nngativn images. 
MisPrable football teams. Thn IIIPn's basketball tragedy two summnrs ago wlwn a playnr was kilbl, alleg~•dly by a leam­matn, lnading to an investiga­tion that uncovered a scandal. 
Whiln t.lwrn havn been somn healing momnnls for llw world's largest Baptist univnrsi­ly since t.lwn. nothing has pro­vidPd llw boost cn~alnd by lhn l.ady BPars making the NC/\1\ Final Four. 
"This has laknn us orw step f'urthnr hnyond the lragnd'y," athletic dirnelor Jan McCaw said Wndrwsday. 
i\dds Grant Tnal'l', Baylor's l'oolhall coach during tho pro­gram's lwyday: "This is a cata­lyst that c~an pull peopiH strong­ly tognthnr again in support of something extremely positive. ... i\lhlntics are the window through which the world looks at your university. Hight now, tlw view is prnlly good." 
Thorn havn been olhnr f'nel­good storins lately from tho Waco campus, about I 00 miles south of Dallas. 
Tlw school's basnlmll, softball and women's tennis teams are all nationally ranked this spring. The men's tennis toam won lhn school's first NC/\1\ dtampionship last spring. 
Last summer, Baylor track stars .Jnrnmy Warinor and llarold Williams won gold nwdals at the Olympies. 
l·:vnn the football tnam, whieh had won just livo of its previous 6H Big 12 games, upset Texas i\&M at home last Odobm. 
Still, all that palos in compari­son lo lhn Lady Boars 1~1-~) capping a s~Htson full of posi­tives by making the Final Four, pulling llwm two wins from a national championship. 
They go into Sunday night's game against LSU with an 18­gamn winning streak. They've oarnnd their first Big 12 regular season and tournament titles _ l'ivn years after eoach Kim Mulkoy-Hobortson took over a program eoming off a seven­win season and had novor been to the NC/\1\ tournament. 
"It helps magnify the othor success programs have had," men's basketball coach Scott Drew said. "It's a platform to talk about other success as well. i\s we all know, people watch TV and read newspa­pers. The more positive publici­ty pnoplo soo, the better." 
Drew was hired al'ter tho death of player Patrick Dmmehy, who had been missing for six weeks bnfore his body was found in a lield a few miles from campus in .July 2003. Fornwr player Carlton Dotson goes on trial for the slaying this summor. 
Basketball eoach Dave Bliss and athletic director Tom Stanton resigned after serious NC:i\1\ violations were revealed. The school also levied stiff sanctions on itself and relaxed transfer rules, letting its top three scorers switch schools. They were last in the Big 12 this season. 
Drew is hoping the excite­ment genorated by the women will help his squad, too. 
"llopefully events like this again show the positiveness of Baylor University and all the good things happening," he said. 
Mulkey-Hobertson insists that she addressed her team about the men's tragedy only onee before last season. She chal­lenged the Lady Bears to give Baylor fans something to rally around. 
"It's not like wn got motivated by it, or used it as motivation in the lock(Jr roo!n," she said. "I just felt like we needed to take the foeus oil' the tragedy as best we could and win basketball games." 
Tho Lady Bears made it to the NCM round of' 1(, for the first time last season. 

Shade of green tints Final Fours 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mieh. ­Hob Dare and his friends crowded around a TV, screaming as Miehigan State competed for a spot in the Final Four. 
The students weren't watch­ing the men's team, however. For the first time, Dare and his buddies were tuned in to cheer on the Spartan women. 
Miehigan State will have its men's and women's teams in the Final Four this weekend and Dare, as much as it sur­prises him, will be interested in both games. 
"Everybody follows the men around here, but now people are jumping on the women's bandwagon, me ineluded," the sophomoro said Wednesday. "I was really impressed with them against Stanford. Me and my friends couldn't believe how good they could shoot. Maybe we should've started following them earli­
er." 
Michigan State has gone hoops crazy, a fact that could be seen and heard on and around campus. 
Merehandise was hawked on s1rroet corners under makeshift tents, and eongrat­ulatory messages could be seen on businesses' mar­quees. 
i\ green and white Spartans blanket attached to a flag pole flapped in tho wind in the back of a pickup truck on tho eastern edge of eampus. 
As if a partly cloudy, 70­degree day wasn't enough to create a buzz in the winter­weary college town, two Final Four-bound basketball teams provided an extra boost pf excitement. 
For the past two weeks, Michigan State presidont Lou Anna Simon has erisserossed tho eountry to give equal time to the Spartans in both the men's and women's NC/\1\ tournaments. 
There's no rest for Simon now. 
"It's a great problem to have," Simon said in interview with The i\ssoeiated Press a few minutes af'ter the women's team beat Stanford on Tuesday night. "It's going to be a little easier on me this weekend beeause the sites will be elosor together, and the games don't conflict. 
"I can't wait to get to the pep rallies and other events we have planned before each game." 
Simon will wateh the men play North Carolina on Saturday in St. Louis, then travel 250 miles to Indianapolis for the women's game against Tennessee on Sunday. 
If both 

Miehigan State some games en
"They realize ... we 
teams pull off routn to the Final upsets, Simon all bleed green and Four. will be baek in it says 'State' on The men boat St. Louis on Kentucky in dou­
both ofour
Monday for the bll~ overtime on
jerseys."
men's national Sunday in a ehampionship regional final, before wrapping Joanne McCallie and the women up her whirl­escaped the sec­

Spartans coach 
wind tour Tuesday night in Indianapolis for the women's title game. 
Just six schools have sent both men's and women's teams to tho Final Four, but tho feat has now happened four years in a row. 
Georgia was the l'irst to do it, in 1983, and Duke followed in 1999 before Oklahoma, Texas, Connecticut and now Michigan State had two teams advanee to the semifinals from 2002-05. Last year, thn Huskies were the first to have both men's and women's tnams win national champi­onships in the same season. 
Michigan State eoach Tom Izzo said superior facilities, successful recruiting and sup­port from the administration likely helped each school pull ilf'f the aecomplishmenl. 
i\t Miehigan State, the head coaehos of both basketball programs are elose and tho players are, too. 
Izzo said he spoke with women's eoach .Joanne 1'. McCallie on Wednesd<ty af'tnr­noon, a day after he galhnrnd his players to wateh her team topple Stanford. 
When the women elinchnd a share of tho Big Ten title last month at tho Breslin Center, an arena both teams share, some players from the mtm's team rushed the court along­side other fans. 

"That was an amazing, spe­cial moment for our program and this eommunity when tlw guys did that," McCallie said. "They realize we all swnat the same, we all bleed green and it says 'State' on both of our jerseys." 
Though the women arn a top-seeded team and the men are a fifth-seeded squad, both have had to scramble to win 
ond round with a 

61-59 win ovnr Southern California. Both will face traditional powerhousns in the Final Four: North Carolina for the mnn and Tennessee for the women. 
Michigan State's wonwn had not advancnd past the second round before this season while tlw men have won two national championships and arn going to tho Final Four for tho fourth time in sevnn YIHtrs -one more trip than any other tnam since 1999. 
Michigan State will open Breslin this weekend so fans can wateh the games on the oversized monitors above thn court for free. 
The College Store, a local store specializing in Miehigan State paraphemalia, is hoping soon to have availabln for sale "This Dance Is For Couples Only" T-shirts featuring both teams. 
If sueh a shirt was on the racks Wndru~sday, Honda Bokram would'vn bought it. 
'Til be back," said Bokram, 49, of East Lansing. 
(;ov. Jennifer c;ranholm plans to trav~d to both the men's and women's gamns this wnekerHI with her 15­year-old daughter Kate. 
AP 









OUND THE NATION 
page 18 CoMPJLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Thursday, March 31, 2005 
AP An Oakland Athletics team banner hangs from the upper deck at the Coliseum in Oakland on Wednesday. Baseball's owners approved the sale of the A's Wednesday to Los Angeles real estate developer Lewis Wolf!. 
Baseball ovvners approve Oakland sale 
Intercollegiate Women's Lacrosse Coaches Poll team re&dtd ,,,;,, p(J,intsi? 
1 Northwestern ~~ 299 2 Virginia M 280 3 North Carolina a~2 260 4 Princeton 4-2 256 5 Duke a~2 
~:: !it!il:!!'i

6 Dartmouth 6~8 7 Penn State 6-3 212 8 Georgetown 5•t 208 g Maryland 64 174 10 Hofstra 7·1 155 11 Boston University 5~1 141 12 Johns Hopkins 5·2 135 13 Penn 4-2 103 14 Cornell 3~2 102 
.,., ..,.,.,.,.,.,85

15 Delaware 4~2 16 Ohio State 4-4 82 171 Syracuse ,5~2 ' 63
:i!i:!F, ,·' 6~1
171 Towson .63 19 Temple 3-2 22 20 William & Mary 3"4 . 17 


Gelco/STX Coaches' Poll Men's Lacrdlse Top 25 
team 
1 Johns Hopkins (7) 2 Duke (3) 3 Viroinia 4 Maryland 5 Army 
6 Naw 7 Geofgefown 8 Syracuse 
9 '" NOlliE DAME
1iJ Cornell 11 Hofstra 12 Hobart 13 Massachusetts 14 Stony Brook 
+1:1, ~: :Hi :Uc!'n 
17 Nol'lb Carolina ·18 Brown w 19 Dartmouth 20 Towson 
, · >?1 Delaware 
25 Villanova 
Golfstat 
team 

Oklahoma State UNlV 
Georgia Tech Georgia New Mexico Wake forest Florida Arizona Slate Duke Bringham Young Auburn " 
UCLA 
Minnesota Augusta Slate Tennessee 


around the dial 
NBA 

Cavaliers at Bulls 8 p.m., TNT Timberwolves at Lakers 10:30 p.m., TNT 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL NIT 
St. Joe's at South Carolina 7 p.m., ESPN 
PGA TouR 
BeiiSouth Classic 4 p.m., USA 
MLB 


Associated Press 

PHOENIX -Baseball's owners unanimously approved the sale of the Oakland Athletics to Los Angeles real estate develop­er Lewis Wolff on Wednesday; all but finaliz­ing a deal in the works for about a year. 
The owners spoke for 5 minutes via conference call to approve the sale, the next-to-last step necessary for Wolff and his group of investors to assume control of the team. 
Now, the parties just have to hold the closing, sign the documents and complete the transaction. 
The /J:s, who planned a 
IN BRIEF 

Mauresmo reaches Nasdaq
I 00 semifinals 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. -Amelie Mauresmo moved one round closer to the Nasdaq-100 Open title-and the No. 1 ranking. 
The top-seeded Frenchwoman reached the semifinals by beating 17-year-old Ana Ivanovic 6-1. 6-4 Wednesday. 
Mauresmo, who spent five weeks at No. 1 last year. can regain the top ranking if she 'wins the tournament and beats a top-five player in one of her final two matches. Lindsay Davenport, who skipped the hard­court tournament to protect her troublesome knees, has been No. 1 since October. 
"Of course I would love to get it back," Mauresmo said. "But having had it once, it's pretty different. My goals are somewhere else. Doing well in these big events is today more important to me." 
Mauresmo's opponent Thursday will be the winner of the last quar­
news conference back in Oakland on Friday to for­mally introduce Wolff as the new owner, hoped to have everything complete by Monday's season opener in Baltimore. 
Wolff, the team's vice president for venue devel­opment, and his group are paying about $180 million to purchase the team from Steve Schott and Ken Hofmann. co-owners since jointly buying the A's in 1995. 
"For the past three years, I've had the pleasure of being involved in one of the best-managed organiza­tions in all of professional sports," Wolff said in a statement. "I consider it a 
terfinal match between No. 5-ranked Elena Dementieva and unseeded Kim Clijsters.Source says Brown will coach Pistons Thursday 
DETROIT -Larry Brown will return to coach the Detroit Pistons this week after missing 10 games, a team source told The Associated Press on Wednesday. 
Brown will rejoin the team at prac­tice Thursday, according to the source, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, and will be on the bench at home Friday night against the Los Angeles Clippers. 
He did not coach the Pistons on Wednesday night at home against Sacramento, missing his lOth straight game since undergoing a procedure related to hip surgery, which caused him to miss six games in November. 
Brown's future with the defending NBA champions became uncertain when he openly questioned whether he'd be able to return this season. 

great privilege to have my name associated with a franchise that has such a rich and proud history as the Oakland Athletics. I am excited about our future and working to continue t,he A's tradition of excellence both on and off the field." 
Schott served as the man­aging partner and will remain involved with the 
club  in  some  capacity,  
maintaining  a  minority  
ownership.  

John Fisher, the billion­aire son of Gap chairman and CEO Don Fisher, will be a majority investor -a sign the small-market 1\s might not be one of baseball's low­budget teams for much longer. Wolff will be manag-
Junior teammates named 
Baker Award finalists 
ITHACA, N.Y. -Cornell goalie David McKee and Colorado College linemates Brett Sterling and Marty Sertich are the finalists for the Hobey Baker Award, given to college hock­ey's top player. 
The finalists were announced Wednesday and the award will be handed out April 8 at the Frozen Four in Columbus, Ohio. 
McKee set a school record with 10 shutouts for Cornell's record-setting defense this season. He led the nation in goals-against average at 1.24, the third-best mark in college hockey history. His .947 save per­centage tied for first in the nation. 
The sophomore has 15 career shutouts, already breaking Ken Dryden's school record of 13 career. 
The other finalists are a pair of junior forwards. Sertich leads the nation in scoring with 27 goals and 37 assists. Sterling leads the nation with 34 goals and has 29 assists. 
ing general partner. 
John Fisher was part of the early ownership team that bought the San Francisco Giants in 1992, but recently sold his share to purchase the 1\s. 
Wolff met with baseball's ownership committee i!). January and has repeatedly said his priority is to build a baseball-only stadium in Oakland, possibly in the Coliseum parking lot. The A's and NFL Oakland Raiders currently share the aging venue. 
That could mean relying on some private money, because Oakland voters have voiced opposition to a new stadium to be funded with their tax dollars. 

Thursday, March 31, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Boston trades Kim, calls pitcher 'a mistake' 

Red Sox owe reliever $6 million, acquire Rockies' Narveson 
Associated Press 
FOHT MYEHS, Fla. -The Boston Hod Sox traded rnliew~r Byung-IIyun Kim to the Colorado Hackies, calling the $10 million, two-year deal they gave him in 2004 "a mistake." 
Kim was sent Wednesday to the Hackies for left-hanch1d pitchnr Chris Narveson, 23, who was optioned to Triple-A Pawtucket, and catcher Charles .Johnson, who was immediately dcsignatnd for assignmnnt and released. 
As part of the trade, Colorado sent Boston about $2.6 million to equalize the salaries. Johnson is owed $9 million and Kim $6 million, part of a $10 million, two-year deal he signed before the 2004 season. 
"We certainly made a mistake and I take responsibili'ty for that," Epstein said. "It's just a mystery what happened to this guy." 
Epstein noted that in 2003, Kim madn contributions to the team's playoff run and was at a loss to say what happened to him in 2004. 
"I'm not so sure [success) would have happened to him in Boston," he said. "He was cry­ing for a change of scenery." 

What's the Futare of this Relationship? 
Please join us for an afternoon of reflection and discussion designed for dating couples who are discerning the next stage of a relationship comr.nitment.. 
What's next for our relationship after graduation? What are some challenges involved in long distance dating? What's Involved in making a healthy decisions about a relationship? 
*Pre-Registration is required by Friday, April 1stat noon* 
Applications are available in 114 COleman-Morse Center or 319 Coleman-Morse at the Reception Desk 
C-M

Questions: call John or Sytvia Dillon at 631-7163 Carnpoas MiniW')' 
Epstein said Kim, whnn informed of thn tradn, apolo­gized for not doing bettor. 
Kim missed timn with tim llu 
this spring and has allownd four 
earned runs in (, 2-:~ innings 
during tho exhibition snason. 
All the while, he has bonn bom­
bardnd with rumors that Boston 
would try to unload his $6 mil­
lion salary, or part of it. 
"I heard many st<n·ins about thn trades this ofTsnason but it's nothing I can control." hn said last wenk, "but I know thn gen­eral managnr and manag~~r and all tho tnammatns still trust in me to help out the tnam." 
Kim, a native of South Koroa, was acquirnd from Arizona on May 29, 2003 in the trade that sent Shna llillonbrand to thn Diamondbacks. lin went 6-4 with 16 saves and a 2.2X 1-:HA in 42 outings aflnr l)(ling named Boston's elosnr .July I. lin did not allow an mtrned run in his final 13 regular season appnar­anees. 
But he lost the job in the play­oil's after allowing tho tying run to reach basn in the ninth inning of Boston's loss in the f'irst-round opnner against Oakland. Thnn, during player introductions for (;amn 3 of tlw AL division series in 2003 al Fenway Park. lw was booed and made an obscmw gnsturn at the crowd. lin later apolo­gized. 
Even so, tho Bed Sox re­signed him. Then he wont 2-1 with a (,.73 EHA for Boston and was at Triple-A Pawtucket from May 11 to Sept. 21. 
The former Arizona closer blew two ninth-inning savns at Yankee Stadium in the 2001 World Series. But hn made tho All-Star toam with the Diamondbacks in 2002, when he had a earner-high :~6 savns. 
In 299 career appearancns, Kim is 31-28 with 86 saves and a 3.37 earned run average. lie has allowed 315 hits and 17h runs, 157 of them earned. lin has struck out 455 halters and walked 176. 
Kim has four saves in 1 I post­season appnarancns. 
The Bockies were trying to move the :B-ynar-old .Johnson since .J.D. Closser rnplacml him at catcher in Snplnmber. 
• First 2.50 fans receive a Notre Dame Lacrosse schedule glass, 
sponsored by Between the Buns and Coke 

• Between the Buns pre-game tail­
gating party for early arriving fans (while su lies last) 
• First 150 fans receive a Notre Dame Lacrosse keychain lanyard, sponsored by Stephenson Marketing Concepts • Krispy Kreme Doughnuts for early arriving fans 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 31, 2005 
MLB 

Bio of medical advisor comes under suspicion 
Baseball's chiefdoctor supposedly falsified records listing his degrees, honors 
Associated Press ical issues, including perform­Pellman attended medical a statement: "This new infor­said it was unfair to criticize 
ance-enhancing substances, school in Guadalajara, Mexico, mation raises further questions Pellman for the false listing of 
NEW YORK -Major League and as the league's liaison to and received a medical degree about (Pellman's) credibility an M.D. from SUNY in his bio Baseball's medical adviser, who club physicians and trainers," from the New York State and the credibility of baseball's from the Jets. praised baseball's steroids poli­the league said in a statement. Education Department after a steroid policy." "I don't see why it should cy and challenged its critics "His work for us and other pro­one-year residency at SUNY-Robert D. Manfred Jr., base­impact his credibility, I reallywhile testifying before fessional sports Stony Brook. He ball's executive vice president, don't," Manfred said. 
Congress, has discrepancies in clubs and leagues does n,ot hold an biographical statements about has been marked "Those M.D. from Stonyhis professional and education­by scholarship Brook, according
discrepancies are
al credentials, according to a and research, and to Dan Hosett, a newspaper report. he has earned the not important university hospital 
The discrepancies appear in respect of our enough to spokesman.media guides and handouts member clubs And in papers
be there."
with information about Dr. through his sent to Harvard Elliot J. Pellman, an internist efforts. University for a who is also team doctor for the The league Elliot Pellman seminar and to New York Jets and the New "expects that Dr. medical advisor the House York Islanders, The New York Pellman will cor­Committee on Times reported in Wednesday's rect the public Government editions. record as it relates to any of his Reform, which held hearings on Pellman, also a former presi­credentials." steroids in baseball two weeks 
dent of the National Football The Jets also backed Pellman. ago, Pellman identified himself League Physicians Society, told "Dr. Pellman has communi­as an associate clinical profes­the Times he had not tried to cated an oversight on his sor at the Albert Einstein mislead anybody. He character­resume, and we have acknowl­College of Medicine. ized the errors as minor, said edged the clarification, and it But he is an assistant clinical he would correct will be reflected professor, a lower-ranking and them and primari­in future corre­honorary position that is held ly blamed the dis­"[Pellman was] spondences," the by thousands of doctors. crepancies on team said in a Pellman does not teach at
completely truthful 
other people, statement. "We Albert Einstein, and his associ­including his sec­in presenting his are thankful to ate status is pending. retary and the qualifications.'' have Dr. Pellman The Times reviewed Pellman's Jets. leading our med­credentials after his nationally
"In a way, I ical department. televised appearance before the
Mike Milbury 
thank you, and stand firmly House committee on March 17.
Islanders
because those dis­behind him, and He was added to the hearing at crepancies are not general manager his team of med­the request of Major League
important enough ical profession-Baseball and staunchly defend­to be there, and als." ed baseball's steroids policies. they have all been fixed," he Islanders general manager When informed of the errors 
told the newspaper. Mike Milbury said Pellman was in Pellman's biography,
Major League Baseball "completely truthful in present­Representative Henry A. expressed concern about the ing his qualifications" when the Waxman, Democrat of Times' story, but offered its team hired him in 1996. California, the ranking minority support for Pellman on Pellman's bio in the Jets member on the House commit­Major League Baseball medical advisor Dr. Elliot Pellman testi­Wednesday. media guide states he has a tee, told The New York Times in fies in Washington during a steroid hearing March 17. 

"Dr. Pellman has been a valu­medical degree from the State able asset to Major League University of New York at Stony Baseball over the last two years Brook. But the Times report as the league advisor on med-said state records show 

Students 
Fly Cheaper 
summer travel, study abroad & more 
Sample roundtrip Student Airfares from South Bend to: 
New Orleans  $168  Toronto  $141  
New York  $168  London  $511  
Las Vegas  $233  Rio de Janeiro  $672  



WHAT ARE YOU CALLED TO DO? 
ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE 
CAREERS AS VOCATIONS 
A pane/ 4 alumni anr) a/um~we reflect on the inte_qralion offaith and Jocia/ concernJ into /~fe beyond Notre Dame. 
Sunday, April 3 4:00-5:30pm
I 

Center for Social Concerns Pizza will be served 
SpeakercJ 
Stephen Silliman, PhD Professor & Associate Dean College of Engineering University of Notre Dame 
Catherine Pieronek, '8-4, MS, '95 JD Director, Women's Engineering Programs University of Notre Dame , 
Kevin Hayes '83 Architect, President and CEO I. 
....~:~-~-~...?.esig~. -~~~~-~.:....~~-~-~.~-~-~-~~~---·············-·-·············· ....J 

[CIJ 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Thursday, March 31, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles blue about loss to Maroons 
l\y TIM DOUGHERTY 
Sports Wrirer 
The Belles dropped their match 6-2 to the Maroons of the Univllrsity of Chkago Wndnesday aftnrnoon. Due to looming storms and tho Maroons' sizable load, the last doubles match was 
l~ancellnd. 
Saint Mary's coaeh Dee Stnvnnson said the match was more dosnly contested than the final scorn indkatml. 
"It could have gone either way," Stnvnnson said. "We lost thren really dose matches. Possibly we could have been ahead 5-3 without having to play that last matd1." 
Playing Np. 6 singles due to the absnnce of' injured sophomore Grul:n (iordon !torn ACLI, fellow sophomorn Mary Bnth Pavela lost her first oflidal match of the ynar in thrnn grueling sots (6-4, 6-7, 6-7)-dropping the last two by tin breaking points. 
Stnvenson hopns that Pavela's ll~ngthy match, which lasted tlm~l~ and a half hours, will help lwr lat11r on. 
"It was a good Hxperinnee for Mary Bnth to g£~t in a dose match," lw said. "Next time shn'll know how to win it." 
.Junior co-captain Kristen Palombo jumped ahead early in her nurnbnr one singles match, taking the first set (6-3), but she lost the next two (2-6, 0-6). 
Palombo's No. 1 doubles match with senior partner Miranda Mikulyuk also came up short. Aftor going to a tiebrnaker, they lost (7-9). 
The match was the lirst time this year Palombo and Mikulyuk had been doubles partners, as Gordon's injury propelled Mikulyuk up to the number-one doubles position with Palombo. 
"We played really well for the first match playing together," Palombo said. "It came down to a couple of points. At one point we were winning (7-6)." 
Stevenson said lw did not see any signs of rust from the long gap between action for the Belles -who had not played since returning from their spring break trip to Orlando March 13 -because the layoff helped them work on strategies for dou­bles play. 
One of the brightest spots of the match was the play of sopho­more Kelly McDavitt, who was involved in both of the Belles' vietories. In addition to winning her number-four singles match in straight sets (6-4, 6-4), she and sophomore partner Caile Muleahy defeated the Maroons' number two doubles pair (8-2). 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
NO SOFTBALL 
Irish pitchers confuse Crusaders 
Booth, Wison team to throw perfect game against Valparaiso 
By RYAN DUFFY 
Sports Writer 
Aftnr squeezing out a walk­off win in their previous game against Westorn Michigan, the Irish left no room for doubt this time around, jumping out to oarly leads and sweeping Valparaiso in a Wednesday doubleheader. 
Notre Dame appeared to be clicking on all cylinders, win­ning the first game 5-0 and the second game 10-0 in five innings behind several of the most dominating performances of the year from both the offense and defense. 
"Valparaiso came in here with an 0-18 record, and sometimes that's hard for bet­ter teams, because they'll play down to the other team's level," junior Sara Schoonaert said. "But I feel we did a good job of playing to our ability lev~! a~d not dropping down to theirs. 
In the first game, Steffany Stenglein allowed only two hits in five innings, striking out 10 for her fourth double-digit strikeout game this season. 
Sophomore Kenya Fuemmeler followed her with one of her best outings to date, finishing the shutout with two innings of no-hit ball. 
With the strong pitching keeping Valparaiso off the scoreboard all game, the Irish were able to build on their lead after an early start. Senior Liz Hartmann doubled to lead off the second inning, then came home after center­fielder Malorie Lenn doubled to center. Two batters later, Schoonaert stepped to the plate and smacked a double down the right field line to stake the Irish to a 2-0 lead. 
In the third inning, the Irish delivered th{l knockout blow. Freshman Katie Laing led off with a single, and after Megan Ciolli reached on a bunt single, Meagan Ruthrauff walked to load the bases. Hartmann then drew the seeond walk of the inning to drive in a run, and Carrie Wisen singled to left to score two more. 
Starting pitcher Heather Booth and Carrie Wisen com­bined to throw a perfect game in the conclusion to the dou­bleheader, retiring all 15 bat­ters they faced. 
The Irish have now recorded no-hitters against Valparaiso in two of the last three years. 
Although the dominant pitching performance took the pressure off the Notre Dame offense, the team came out in the first inning to bash three home runs on the way to an eight-run rally that put the game away from the start. 
"Our pitchers were really good, particularly in the sec-. 

ond game when they eombinnd for a no-hitter," Schoonaert said. "All tho way through the lineup the oll'nnsn was dieking -the first, fifth and eighth hitters all had homers in the first. It was a total team oll'ort. We got solid defense, espodal­ly in the second game, our pitchers kept us in the ball game and tlw hitters took care of things." 
Notre Dame began its eight­run inning whnn sophomore Stephanie Brown erushnd a solo shot to load oil' the game for her first homer of the year. Laing, who went :H'or-6 hitting out of the number two spot, followed with a doublo, then movod to third aftnr Ciolli sin­gled to centnr. After Huthraull' walked to load the basns, I lartmann calmly stepped into the batt1~r's box and launched the second pitch she saw over the Ieftfield feiH~e for a graud slam, the first of her career. Hartmann finishod the day 3­for-4 with a horner and five HBis. 
After Hartmann's grand slam dearnd the bases and gavo tho Irish a 5-0 load, Gessica Hufnagle singled to right, bringing senior Nieole Wicks to the plate. 
Wicks has had just eight at­bats this season, but still man­aged to drive a pitch deep over the left field wall for her first hit of the 2005 season. 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffyl@nd.edu 





Congregation of lloly Cross 
With joy and thanksgiving we invite you to celebrate the ordination to the priesthood of: Rev. Andy Sebe~ta, C.S.C. Rev. Kevin Sandberg, C.S.C. The Sacrament of Holy Orders will be conferred by The Most Reverend Gerald R. Barnes, Bishop of San Bernardino: Saturday, April 2, 2005 1:30 p.m. at Sacred Heart Basilica "We heard a summons to give over our lives in a more explicit way" (Constitutions, 1.3) vocation.nd. edu  

page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 31, 2005 
Spring Visitation 
Weekend Prospects Arrive on Campus 
The Office of Undergraduate Admissions would like to recognize and welcome the 154 prospective African American, Asian American, Latino and Native American students visiting campus to attend this year's Spring Visitation Weekend. 
The University of Notre Dame Welcomes the Following Students: 
Christopher Aquilar  Downey, CA  Samuel Kohn  Morton Grove, IL  
Martin Aquilera  Deerfield, MA  David Ladao  Nanuet, NY  
Nazur Ahmed  Valparaiso~ IN  Jessica Lamour  Dublin, OH  
Karla Albite  Miami Lakes, FL  Brian Lan  La Crescenta, CA  
Beata Aldridge  Jamaica, NY  Jane Lee  La Crescenta, CA  
Paula Alfonso  .  Woodland Hills, CA  Stella Lee  Corpus Christi, TX  
Edward Alston  Hawthorne, NJ  Micheal Lerma  Spokane, WA  
Vincent Andrews  Wallace, NC  Matthew (Matt) Limpar  Bolingbrook, IL  
Mathew Archuleta  Montebello, CA  Katie Loftin  Sand Springs, OK  
Jaimee Banks  Orange, NJ  Britan Love  South Holland, IL  
Noel Barnuelos  Los Angeles, CA  Jaime Luna  Ojai, CA  
Sabrina Barbosa  Azusa, CA  Shao Bo Ma  South Glens Falls, NY  
Rhae Battles  Matteson, IL  Seema Madan  Long Beach, CA  
Taurean Baynard  Minneapolis, MN  Kristin Mannella  Webster, NY  
Benford Begay  Thoreau, NM  Joy Martin  Granger, IN  
Michael Benjamin  Queens Village, NY  Sergio Martinez  San Diego, CA  
Serena Bethune  Taunton, MA  Katherine Mason  Pasadena, CA  
Brittney Bolden  South Bend, IN  Angela Mayorga  Los Angeles, CA  
Madeline Boyer  Safety Harbor, FL  Marissa McCook  Jamaica, NY  
Jamie Brooks  Rio Rancho, NM  Daniells McKoy  Bronx, NY  
Christopher Buescher  Austin, TX  Lourdes Meraz  El Monte, CA  
Bryan Candelario  Memphis, TN  Dorian Mirchandani  Hinsdale, IL  
Daniele Cano-Besquet  Agoura Hills, CA  Marcela Monsalve  Orlando, FL  
Ashley Carlin  Corona, CA  Jessica Montoya  Albuquerque, NM  
Julio Castilleja  San Antonio, TX  Juan Muldoon  Irving, TX  
George Chamberlain  Charleston, WV  Sade Murphy  Houston, TX  
Melissa Chavez  Albuquerque, NM  Kamin Mwez  Cedar Park, TX  
William Coburn  Osceola, AR  Tram Nguyen  Fort Wayne, IN  
Shaunte Collins  Pflugerville, TX  Don Nzita  Phoenix, AZ  
Jessica Covarrubias  Chicago, IL  Andrea Ochoa  Santa Fe, NM  
Ashleigh Cross  Wilmette, IL  Agatha Offorjebe  SanJose, CA  
Melissa Cruz  Tulare, CA  Chibuzo Ohanaja  Arlington, TX  
Melissa Cruz  Chattanooga, TN  Maria Okeke  Bloomington, IN  
Mary David  Fallbrook, CA  Jonathan Park  Granger, IN  
Carla Demarzo-Sanchez  Yonkers, NY  Adam Parker  Window Rock, AZ  
Stephanie DiFazio  West Harrison, NY  Ryan Perdomo  Los Angeles, CA  
Victoria Doan  Dallas, TX  Oscar Perez  Laredo, TX  
Marisa Dowling  Corpus Christi, TX  Gabriella Perez  Covina, CA  
Liliana Elizondo  Brownsville, TX  Dinh Xuan Phan  Arlington, TX  
Nicole Escobar  Miami, FL  Michael Phillips  Hempstead, NY  
Calvin Evangelista  Baldwin Park, CA  Ricardo Pineda  Visalia, CA  
Shanelle Felder  Hollywood, FL  Guadalupe Pineda  San Diego, CA  
Edith Felix  Nogales, AZ  Ricardo Placencia  Laredo, TX  
Elizabeth Ferrufino  Rockvile, MD  Gregory Price  Holland, OH  
Anthony Fiorino  Yonkers, NY  Stephanie Rice  Houston, TX  
Julian Flores  Redwood City, CA  Martin Ricketts  Bakersfield, CA  
Nathaniel Forte  Lancaster, CA  Alexander Riddle  Cincinnati, OH  
June Fredell  Colorado Springs, CO  Brandon Rincon  Mineola, NY  
Sandra Garcia  San Antonio, TX  Raquel Rios  San Antonio, TX  
David Garcia  Chicago, IL  William Robowski  SanJose, CA  
Prisma Garcia  Dallas, TX  Vanessa Rodriguez  San Antonio, TX  
Melissa Garcia  Oxnard, CA  Nikolas Rodriguez  San Antonio, TX  
Monica Garcia-Blizzard  Irving, TX  Lauren Rosas  Pico Rivera, CA  
Jacob Garza  Levelland, TX  Pamela Ruiz  San Bernardino, CA  
Tae Hwan (Andrew) Gim  Cerritos, CA  Erica Sanchez  Chesterton, IN  
Ulises Gonzales  Reseda, CA  Juan Saucedo  El Paso, TX  
Jami Gordillo-Kerby  Fresno, CA  Janeua Sears  Los Angeles, CA  
Elisia Guerena  Kingman,AZ  Ashley Serrette  Orange, NJ  
Alejandra Gutzeit  Camarillo, CA  Richard Shin  San Diego, CA  
Christopher Hall  Northbridge, MA  Jordan Smith  Chicaog, IL  
Ashley Hardy  Indianapolis, IN  Kevin Smith  Madison, WI  
Kristian Henderson  Little Rock, AR  Matthew Tipton  Gary, IN  
Julia Hernandez  Chicago, IL  Heidi Torres-Fewell  Ranchos de Taos, NM  
Vanessa Hernandez  Pico Rivera, CA  Tiana Towns  Perris, CA  
Ryan Herdnandez  San Antonio, TX  Kim Tran  San Antonio, TX  
Christine Holden  Fort Apache, AZ  Lisa Tsang  San Francisco, CA  
Concerta Holley  Wallingford, CT  Laura Ubani  St. Paul, MN  
Sharon Hong  Barrington, IL  Thierry Uwilingiyimana  Buffalo, NY  
Dang (Anna) Hua  Houston, TX  Vanessa Valdez  Fontana, CA  
Micheal Huang  Redmond, WA  Ami Waldenberger  Montevideo, MN  
Tram (Tammi) Huynh  Elmhurst, IL  Leora Wallace  Chicago, IL  
Dorian lnzunza  Indio, CA  Alex Washington  Spring, TX  
Mallory Jabobs  Argyle, TX  Nathan Whitfield  Hot Springs, AR  
Dana Jason  Cincinnati, OH  Ashley Williams  Yuma,AZ  
Doris Kawira  South Bend, IN  Sarah Yoo  Las Vegas, NV  
Lewis Kellen  South Bend, IN  Tesia Zientek  Shawnee, OK  
Paris Shardai Kingsberry  Bilings, MT  

ThursJay, March 31, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
Bovs' McDoNALD's ALL-AMERICAN GAME 
Blue Devil recruits cotnbine for 30 points in East victory 
By PAT LEONARD 
Spom Writer 
I>ukn managns to havn sue­enssful snasons nvnn when it donsn 't mntond for tho national 
titlt~. 
Blun I>ovil roeruits Josh McHoherts (Carmel, Ind.) and c;rog Paulus (Manlius, N.Y.) ear­rind tho McDonald's Ali­Anwriean East tnam to a 115­110 win over the West Wndnnsday night at tho .Joyce Contnr. 
MeHtJborts was named the game's MVP after scoring 17 points and grabbing a game­high 12 mbounds. Paulus helped out with 13 points and nine assists. Both MeHoberts and Paulus played 24 minutes, the most by any other player in the 28th annual McDonald's game. 
l.od by 24 points from Oklahoma State-bound Gerald (;reen -the most impressive scoring thrnat on the floor and winner of this year's dunk eon­test-the East pulled away after seeing a 65-43 halftime lmul shrink to a tie with under two minutos to go in an unusual­ly eompetitive game compared to past ynars. 
"Thny kind of jumped on us in the socond half," McHoberts said, "hut wn hung in thorn and got tho win." 
c;rmm scorml five of the East's lirst snvon points in the sncond half af'tnr shooting 4-for-4 from 3-point rango in a 14-point first half oll'ort. The East then led 72­49, but the West eame roaring back. 
West point guard Mario Chalmers (Anchorage, AK ­Kansas) droppnd 13 points in a 20-2 run to narr<>w the East lnad to 74-69. 
.Teams P.xchanged baskets for a good portion of the half up until a television timeout with 
7:59 to go. After the East led at that point, 97-85, West eoach AI Hhodes went with a lineup that included Chalmers and fellow Kansas rocruit Julian Wright (7­for-9, 14 points). 
The West closed the lead to four, 106-102, with 1:57 remain­ing and tied the game after con­secutive field goals from Monta Ellis (Jackson, Miss. Mississippi State). 
Green regained the lead for the East, however, with two free throws. Paulus then sank 5-of-6 from the eharity stripe down the streteh to seal the victory. 
The East shot 51.4 percent to the West's 44.6 percent. 
Notre Dame recruit Luke Zeller (Washington, Ind.) started the game for the West squad and played 15 total minutes. 
Zeller played the high post and did not sec the ball much. lie shot 0-for-2 on the evening and grabbed two rebounds to go with two assists. 
"I loved playing on the Joyce Center floor," Zeller said. "I wish I could have given !the fans! something to cheer for, but we'll have to wait until later." 
McHobnrts, on the other hand -the only player other than Zeller from Indiana to partiei­patc in the game -was forced to answer questions about possi­bly skipping college to play pro­fessionally. 
"Hight now, I just really want to go to college and have that experience to play for [Duke coaeh Mike Krzyzweski 1." he said. "I feel like I'm not ready for the NBA physically or men­tally." 
The West led only once in the game when Martell Webster (Edmond, Wash. -Washin~:,rton) banked in a 3-pointer on the tP.am's first possession to make the score 3-1. 
McHoberts responded to the basket with a deep bucket of his own, making the score 4-3 East as McHoberts would go on to tie Green for the lead in scoring at half with 14 points apiece. 
Notes 
+Paulus is a two-sport high school All-American, earning the honor in football and basket­ball. Notre Dame recruited Paulus -a quarterback in high school -for football, but the New York native decided to put his football career on hold and play basketball at Duke. 
+The East's Tasmin Mitchell (Denham Springs, La. ­Louisiana State) was given this year's McDonald's Sportsmanship Award at half­time of Wednesday's game. Mitchell scored six points in 13 minutes. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


KARAOKE 
@ 


LEGENDS 
THURSDAY MARCH31 10PM 

Friday, April 1 "Hey,'Tha
Got"a H'~~fhing

Don't be fooled... r:.,v•/'1'
0 •• 


Jt)N RI~IJ» 
•The "Heml" Guy 
• 
ABC sitcom "Rodney" 

• 
"Premium Blend" on Comedy Central 


10 pm 

NIGHTCLUB 
midnight Satur ay, April 2 





Jlf)l'l()l\' Cl'l'Y 
ew .. urn: "Comm 
this to Memory" Produced by Mark Hoppus of Blink 182 

openers corn @"'l Ec E N D s NO COVER F N O T R. E D A M E ND, SMC, HDD ID Required www.nd.edu/ -legends 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 31, 2005 
Dory 
continued from page 28 

out. Matt Edwards flied out before Matt Bransfield reached on a third baseman's error, which scored Nettey. Dury followed with a mam­moth blast that just snuck inside the left field foul line for 
a three-run "The highlight of John Axford threw bomb. After a scoreless eighth,
the night was John 
another Chicago recording three
Axford. That's a
State error, strikeouts and one Craig Cooper good tune up for walk. Axford pushed one missed all ·of last
him for next week." 
more run across season after hav­with a fielder's ing Tommy John choice to the Paul Mainieri surgery and he is shortstop. Irish head coach expected to be a 
to the left centerfield gap and chugged his way to third for an RBI triple. Cooper followed with a bullet up the middle, scoring Dressman and putting Notre Dame in front 12-3. Lopez cranked an RBI doubl.e to left center to score Cooper and extend the Irish lead to 13-3. 
Besides the victory, the Irish 
had more good 
news when pitcher 

Notre Dame added two runs in the third when Lilley smoked a bases-loaded single up the middle to score Cooper and Ross Brezovsky, giving the Irish a 7-2 lead. 
In the four(h, Greg Lopez added an RBI sacrifice f1y that scored Cody Hizzo to push Not-re Dame's advantage to 8­
3. Pinch hitter Danny Dressman slapped a two-run base hit to center field, extending the Irish lead to 10­3 in the fifth. 
Dressman did more damage to Chicago State in the bottom of the seventh. After Dury doubled down the right field line, Dressman ripped a shot 
key contributor to Notre Dame's starting rotation. 
"The highlight of the night was John Axford," Mainieri said. "That's a good tune-up for him for next week." 
Axford is scheduled to start April 6 in a makeup game against Bowling Green. 
Notre Dame now prepares for a critical three-game weekend series against Big East foe Rutgers on Saturday and Sunday. The Scarlet Knights are 12-8 and tied with the Irish at 3-1 in the confer­ence. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 



Potential 
continued from page 28 
the Irish were anything but a pushover, clinching the dou­bles point with an 8-3 win over Katie McGaffigan and Lindsay Martin. Christian Thompson returned to the courts in the team's match against Oklahoma State after being sidelined with a knee injury the last two meets. 
Sarah Jane Connelly was heartened by the team's per­formance in doubles, adding that she looks forward to seeing just how successful the team as a whole will be. 
"We still have a good third of the season left," Connelly said. "We still have a lot more matches to win." 
In singles, No. 44 Catrina Thompson recorded her sev­enth victory in her nine con­tests against nationally­ranked opponents. The soph­omore extended the team's advantage, putting Notre Dame in the lead 2-0 with a 6-2, 6-2 defeat of No. 93 McGaffigan at No. 1. 
But the Buckeyes refused to back down, winning three of the next four matches. The match at No. 2 pitted the two players tied for No. 100 in the ITA national rankings ­Buck and Burke -against each other. Burke emerged victorious with a 6-2, 6-0 win. Martin tied the score for the Badgers, beating Lauren Connelly 6-4. 6-1 at No. 3. 
Wisconsin pulled ahead 3-2 as Caiati defeated. Stastny 7­6 (7 -4). 6-3 at No. 4. 
Things appeared to be 
looking up for the Irish after cruised from there. It's junior Liz Donohue bested always fun playing well in Chelsea Nusslock 6-4, 7-5 at front of a home crowd." No. 6 to put the score at 3-3. Lauren Connelly and Buck But Beck secured the win for were the first to walk off the Wisconsin, defeating Sarah courts. defeating Sandra Jane Connelly 5-7, 6-3, 7-5. Blaier and Jessica Collins 8-2 
Sarah Jane Connelly said at No. 2. The duo is 21-8 on the Buckeyes proved to be the season and 10-5 in dual challenging opponents across matches. the board. Sarah Jane Connelly and 
"We knew it was going to Stasny·followed their lead 
be  a  battle  with a  8-3 victo­ 
going into it,"  ry over Jennifer  
Connelly said. "They just fought really  "We knew it was going to be a battle  Poskitt and Lauren Simmons at No. 3 to  
hard and I don't think we were  going into it."  clinch the dou­bles point. At  
as as  competitive we could  Sarah Jane Connelly  19-7 on the sea­son and 9-4 in  
have been."  Irish senior  dual  matches,  

Notre Dame returns to the courts on Saturday, hosting Long Beach State at 10 a.m. 
Notre Dame 7, Oklahoma State 0 
Oklahoma natives Sarah Jane Connelly, Lauren Connelly and Buck had the opportunity to showcase their talent before a home crowd on Saturday, impress­ing their family and friends in attendance with a triumph over Oklahoma State (4-8). The team shut out their opponents 7-0, claiming wins at each of the singles posi­tions and at Nos. 2 and 3 in doubles en route to the victo­ry. 
Sarah Jane Connelly had only words of praise for her teammates. 
"Everyone played really well this weekend," Connelly 
the pair has won six of their eight matches together. 
Catrina and Christian Thompson were last to finish after a tough 8-4 loss to Zana Masnic and Iryna Tkachenko at No. 1. 
Sarah Jane Connelly start­ed the Irish off on the right foot with her 6-0, 6-2 tri­umph over Poskitt at No. 5. Buck added to the team's success, beating Masnic 6-1, 6-1 at No. 2 and Stastny defeated Collins 6-1, 6-1 at No. 5 to clinch the win. 
After the meet's outcome was decided, Donohue regis­tered a win over Blaier 6-2, 6-1 at No. 6 and Catrina Thompson outlasted No. 97 Tkachenko at No. 1 6-2, 2-6, 1-0 (10-3). Finally, Lauren Connelly prevailed over Simmons 6-2, 6-2 at No. 3. 

said. "We just came out and got out on top early after Contact Ann Loughery at winning doubles and we just alougher@nd.edu 

"Catholic Higher Education in Eastern Europe and the United States: Opportunities and Challenges" 
Tuesday, April 5, 9:30-4:00 pm Recker's Hospitality Room 
An exchange of ideas and experiences on the teaching, academic, and leadership roles of the Catholic university, with participants from Croatia, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, Ukraine, and the u·nited States 
Sponsored by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies . 
.. 

www.nd.edu/ -nanovic 

Thursday, March 31, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
leading Bartlett High School to Irish. a second place finish in Class Next year, Schrader should

Schrader 
AA She will enter Notre Dame play a significant role for Notre continued from page 28 in the fall, where she intends to Dame. The Irish lose leading major in education in order to scorer Jacqueline Batteast to "It was an amazing experi­become either an athletic graduation, and standout IHJcn," Schrader said. "I think I director or a high school bas­freshman Charel Allen is cur­will rnrnernhnr it for a life­ketball coach. rently out with a torn ACL and limn." Schrader said that the expe­MCL in her left knee. 
Schradnr finished her high rience playing at the Joyce Schrader's ability to score school carnnr avnraging 22.1 Center has made her even should get her some early min­points and I 0.3 rnhounds while more anxious to play for the utes for the Irish. 

Live WhereYou Play 

Registrar Resource Central 
http://registrar.nd.edu/rrc.shtml 
• 
Registration Instructions and Tutorial 

• 
Class Search Tutorial 

• 
Course Renumbering Information 

• 
Frequently Asked Questions 

• 
Exemption Form Replacement Information 


View your registration status now on the Student Services 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
channel at insideND: WNOTREDAME 
Office of the Registrar

http://inside.nd.edu 

Lindsay Schrader dribbles up the court In Wednesday's game. Schrader finished with nine points on 4-for-7 shooting. 
Dept. ofIrish Language &Literature Roinn Theanga 7Litriocht na Gaeilge 

Fal/2005 Course O[ferings 
IRLL 10101 Introduction toModern Irish I IRLL 10102 Introduction toModern Irish II IRLL 20103 Intermediate Irish Language IRLL 20105 Introduction to Old Irish IRLL 30107 The Hidden Ireland: Issues in 18-cent. Irish Poetry IRLL 40304 Ideology, Poetry md Politics in Ireland 


LSAT Review Course 4Saturdays 8a.m.-noon April30-May 21 
Division ofContinuing Education IU South Bend 
Call 574-520-4261 to enroll or visit www.iusb.edu/....cted 
Schrader saw her first glimpse of playing for the Irish when the lights wern off for pregame introductions. 
"I thought it was awesome, because ~hat's how they're going to do it for every home game," she said. ''I'm really, really excited to come here in the fall. I can't wait." 
However, regardless, Schrader said she will never 

forget the experiences sht~'s had as a McDonald's AII­Amnrican. 
''I'm going to rnmernber this for a lifetime," Schrader reiter­ated. "But the best thing about it is that the money goes to charity. And I think that's fan­tastie." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegardcn at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
--------------~~------­
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 31, 2005 
Hopefully, his hometown will let All-American to sign with the felt.;, ''I'll have to put my Notre Dame Zeller get that rest -because in Irish since Torin Francis played in Coming to his future home and jersey on to score my first points," 



Zeller 

the basketball-crazed state of the game in 2002. having a big-time game would Zeller said. Indiana, that half-court shot has However, Zeller didn't view all have put a memorable ending on He'll have plenty of chances to
continued from page 28 

made Zeller an instant legend. of that attention as pressure. Zeller's high school career. do just that during his next four Center crowd. "I don't know if there's a town "The media kept saying there But it didn't work out that way, years. 
Despite not having a major left," he said. would be more pressure," Zeller and Notre Dame basketball fans impact on the game, Zeller hoped After three practices, East said. "But I kept saying it would will have to wait until November Contact Matt Lozar at his team would get close enough coach AI Rhodes came away be more support. That's how I to see Zeller get that first basket. mlozar@nd.edu 
so he could have a chance to repeat history. 
"I was hoping we could get it down to one point and maybe I could shoot another half-courter," he said. 
If Zeller ended up doing that, then he might not be able to do what he's going to do the next couple of days. 
"I haven't had time to think or sleep," Zeller said. ''I'm looking forward to going home and rest­ing." 
impressed with Zeller's game. 
"He is five times better than what I thought, and I don't mean that as anything but a compli­ment," Rhodes said. "He's one of the big people Notre Dame needs." 
Zeller received a lot of attention this week, not just because of his memorable game-winner, but because he is the headline recruit in Notre Dame basketball coach Mike Brey's incoming recruiting class. He's the first McDonald's 

Tour Guide Manual. Page 78. 
Planning Your Route: What Not To Do 

GIRLS' McDoNALD's ALL-AMERICAN GAME Courtney Paris leads West vvith 16 points 
By MATT LOZAR Senior Staff Writer 

All-star games don't usually stress team basketball. 
But at halftime of the Girls' McDonald's All American High School Game, that's what the West team emphasized. 
Fifty-two second-half points showed it wasn't a bad idea as the West beat the East 80-64 at the Joyce Center Wednesday night. 
"We were trying to get started and gel with everybody," said Lindsay Schrader, who will be attending Notre Dame in the fall. "We were playing more as a team than individuals, which teams tend to do in all-star games. Playing team ball really won the game." 
Most valuable player Courtney Paris led the West with 16 point<> on 7-of-1 0 shooting and 12 rebounds. Eleven of Paris' points came in the second halt: 
"As a post player, it's hard to play in games like this," Paris said. "You have to get a pass from the guards, who were selfless tonight." 
Both teams struggled in the first half, each scoring 28 points, but neither shot better than 30 per­cent. The game started to open up late in the half as the teams start­ed running and getting into the · open court instead of relying on individual moves to create offen­sive opportunities. 
Marissa Coleman led the East squad and all scorers with 19 point<> in 21 minutes. 
Schrader is Notre Dame's only McDonald's All-American, and the first since Crystal Erwin attained the honor for the 2003 game. Courtney LaVere played in the game in 2002. 
Texas is the only school with three All-Americans while Maryland, Duke, Oklahoma and California each have two. 
Overall, the night and weekend was a positive experience for Schrader and Paris. 
"When you're on an All-Star team, everyone can take big shots," Paris said. "We got confi­dence with each other. 
"It was exciting and fun to play." 

The Office of Undergraduate Admissions is now hiring tour guides for the summer, fall, and spring. Applications are available at admissions.nd.edujtourguide.pdf or in 220 Main Building and are due April 8th. Questions? Contact Jill or Gabe at 631-7505. 


The Spring Run 
A Benefit for "Rebuilding Together with Christmas in April" 

'1610IIUNS •LUS 
J MILl WALl 
Saturday, April 2, 2005 
11:00 A.M. Race will begin at Legends 
Opens at 10:00 A.M. 

Refreshments & T-Shirts to all Finishers Register in Advance at RecSports $6.00 In Advance or $10.00 Day ofRace Advance Registration Begins 3/21, Ends@ 5:00p.m. 4/l Student and StaffDivisions 





----------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, March 31, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY .page 27 

SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
r---------------, 
E r---------------,~ r-------------~ 
t--T_H_E_H_A._B_I_T_U_A._L_L_I_A._R_-t ~ I'M SURE YOU'RE DEA.D. !{!' 
YOUR. HEA.D ISN'T EVEN 
A.TTA.CHED TO YOUR.
g YOUR. HEA.D IS A. SKULL. =>
® ~
THOUGHT BODY.

~ ~ 
YOU DIED. 
NO, I 

~ e
= u
FEEL 

~ I CUT BA.CK .s 
) I TA.KE 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
BOINS 


I I I ( J 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 


(~r~--~ 
TANNIE 
Wl-\E:N THE KITc.He:N

I I I 
HELP FE:L.L. I?E:HIND,
www.jumble.com 
THE c.He:F WA?--­

GLUBIN j 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

I I r CJ 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print amrer here: 

"( I I I I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's I Jumbles: JULEP PATIO BUSHEL TOUCHY Answer: How she felt when her cobbler recipe won the blue ribbon -JUST "PEACHY" 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 "The the 60 Opposite of Deal" morns
1 Attention getter 5 Former 30 Pro in the sticks 61 Sch. periods 
company with a 31 Popular Don 62 Start of the year,globelike logo to a 63-Across
35 Digress10 Pronto 63 Mex. title

39 _prof.

14 Start of a 40 Unpleasant
treasure hunt instruction 
illness DOWN 
15 Bone cavities 41 Broadcasting 1 Sports org. since 1916
16 Area ol 42 Credit card no. expertise 2 Big tops 
43 "Red state" grp. 17 Mercutio and 3 Daggers 
45 F.D.R. planRomeo, in 4 Where ships go 

46 What "Pay Toll "Romeo et 1 Mile" implies 5 Author John Gounod's 
Juliette" 52 Trojan leader Dos 
18 Stay away who survived 6 Get in the game the fall of Troy 
20 Makes a cross 7 Event outlawed for, maybe 53 Like a defendant by inti. treaty 22 Twisted, in a 54 They fill a It may come way pressing needs after you 
23 React badly 56 Powerful engine 9 Pasta topper 
25 Like many a 58 Abba of Israel 10 _nothing gen. or maj. 
59 C.I.A. director 11 Tuscan city 26 AOL, e.g. 
under Clinton 

12 Diarist Nin 
27 Catch and Bush 13 Bar in a cage ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 19 Rock climber's handhold 
21 Solo racing boat 
23 Sonia of "Kiss of the Spider Woman" 
..:::+-::+.=+:::-! 24 "Oh, sure!" 29 Thomas Moore poem "_ in the Stilly Night" -'..r:-:+~;;+.:-:-1 30 Quick message 
~~:+.:+::.+=-! 31 Starter: Abbr. 
-:+;::..t-,;+= 

32 Coyote, e.g. 
33 Unpaired, as a chromosome 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TUIS DAY: Caitlin Wachs. 16; Scan BiggcQ;taiT. 22; Fabio, 46; Judd Hirsch. 70 
Happy Birthday: Stability will be your thing this year. You will surpass your goals because you will persevere. You will he courageous. caring and content because you do what's best for you as well as for others. Multitasking will be a breeze and standing your ground a must. Your numbers arc 5, 17, 23, 24, 27, 33 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take charge and do something that will hl'lp benefit your career or financial situation. You can simplify your life if you arc organized and setup a budget. Additional responsibilities are likely to occur.*** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Being secretive will be ihc key to gelling things done. You can gather infonnation fromlnternct sources that will help you make the right choices. A short trip for husincss purposes will pay off. *** GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): Don't push yourself too hard today. Lowered vitality will take its toll, so do less and do it well. A change in plans can be expected. hut don't let that upset you. Avoid disagreeable people. ••• CANCER (.)tine 21-.July 22): Take a quiet approach to whatever you do, and you will prosper. There arc plenty of changes in the offing--accept them, and you will benefit. Love is apparent. •••• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You have some great ideas, but if you try to enforce them in your personal life you can expect trouble. Focus on your work and what you can do lo gel ahead. The further ahead you gel, the more you can change other areas of your life. •• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Doors will open for you today if you take the initiative and visit people in the know who can help you. A change is apparent, and a new partnership will interest you. Don'l wail --respond. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take care of some of the personal mailers that have been upselling you. You'll be surprised how much you can accomplish if you set your mind to it. Changes in the workforce will be to your benefit. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone may be trying to gel your allention. Take heed of the advice being offered. You are up for some incredible changes. Let Y!JUr creative intuition lead the way. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Pay a little extra allcntion to those you are working with or for today. You will have some worthwhile suggestions. but if you are too pushy about doing things your way, you will meet with resistance. Don't make changes today. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make new friends, start new partnerships and lake on new ventures, but be careful what you promise along the way. Overdoing it in any capacity will come back to cause you grief. Business travel will bring good results. ***** AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may be questioning a lot today about your personal life and where you see yourself heading. Ask questions if someone you know is confusing you. It's beuer to know where you stand. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Today can be touch-and-go for you. Although there will he people on your side, you will have to de-JI with others who arc trying to take you for granted. Say no if you don't feel comfortable with what someone wants you to do. **** 
Birthday Baby: You arc unpredictable, especially when emotional mailers arc an issue. You are precise and well-informed, and you take pride in being at your very best at all times. You are energetic, poetic and romantic. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astmadvice.com for fun. eugenialast. com for cor!fidentia/ consultation ' 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
PEANUTS 
LINU5, HERE, HAS DEVELOPED A NEW DRINK ThAT WILL HELP US WIN AFEW BALL GAMES... 
BAlANCED aECTKQ'ITE 
~THE BIG TEAMS ARE 
CHARLES SCHULZ 
I lJA~T EVER<IONE Yo LINE UP 
CAN'T ~OU PUT HIM AT 
OVER HERE ... WE'LL PASS l'HE 
THE END OF THE LINE ? 
CUP ALONG THE LINE... 
34 Pricey set of strings 
36 Like the prepositions in 23-, 35-and 46-Across 
37 Swed. butter? 
38 Kind of stock 
42 Grandfather of Enos 43 Artillery unit member 

44 Decides one will 
46 Postal conveniences: Abbr. 
47 Not touch 
48 When "S.N.L." ends 49 Gradually removes 
50 Who discovers the perfect crime 
51 Sign of an allergy 
55 TV chihuahua 
57 Hush-hush grp. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
' .. 
THE OBSERVER 







PORTS
Thursday, Month 31, 2005 
page 28 
McDoNALD's ALL-AMERICAN GAMES 
Arching to the next level 
Zeller held scoreless Illinois' Ms. Basketball, Schrader shows her in McDonald's game, skills in team's 80-64 victory over the East but looks promising 
Bartlett, Ill., finished with nine 

By HEATHER points on 4-for-7 shooting and 
By MATT LOZAR VAN HOEGARDEN also grabbed three rebounds in 
Senior Staff Writer Sports Writer the game, in which she played 
15 minutes. 

The half-court buzzer-beater Lindsay Schrader gave Irish "It feels good, it feels really, Luke Zeller made Saturday night fans a glimpse of the future really good," she said. "I wanted to win the Class 3A state title is Wednesday night when she to end my high school career still the last basket he's made. scored five straight points in the with a win and I did." 
After Wednesday night's second half to give her team a Schrader, recently named Ms. McDonald's four-point Basketball in the state of Illinois, All-American See Also lead. See Also showed her future teammates game, Zeller Schrader hit and coaches what she could do didn't fill out "Blue Devil a jumper and "Courtney Paris at her new home. Irish head 
the box score recruits combine then a 3-leads West with coach MufTet McGraw and assis­in his Joyce pointer to put tants Jonathan Tsipis and
for 30 points in 16 points"
Center debut. the West team Coquese Washington were in In his 15 min­East's victory" up 45-41 in page23 attendance Wednesday night, as utes, the sen­t h e were current Irish freshmen
page 23
ior from McDonald's All-American High Charel Allen and Tulyah Gaines, Washington School basketball game at, the who will play with the 6-foot High School Joyce Center, a game that the guard/forward next season. linisbcd O-of:·2 shooting from the West eventually won 80-64, "It feels like home already," 
field, with two rebounds and two after a slow, sloppy first half of Schrader said of the Joyce assists. play. Center. 
His biggest cheers came in the "I think we were playing more Schrader, t.he only player from pregame introductions when as a team than as individuals, Illinois on the roster, said the Zeller was announced as part of and that helped a lot," Schrader experience was a very positivethe starting Lineup and cheers of said. "We really played team ball one. "Luke" came from the Joyce and that's what won us the "It was an amazing experi­
game." 

see ZELLER/page 26 The high school senior from see SCHRADER/page 25 

BASEBALL 

Dury nails homer in 12-run victory 
Sophomore slugger leads Notre Dame over Chicago 5 tate 
By JOE HETTLER Senior SmtTWrirer 

From the way this season has unfolded for Chicago State, Wednesday's game against Notre Dame was prob­ably a moral victory. 
The Co­ugars, who 
,........-...,.....__,...., entered yes­terday 0-24 and had lost games 26-0, 25-12 and 32-4, led 2-0 after the top of the first before falling Mainieri 

yet again, this time to the Irish 15-3 at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Mike Dury went 3-for-5 with a three-run home run and two runs scored, five Irish players added two hits each (13-10) and nearly everyone with a Notre Dame jersey besides batboy Tommy Mainieri saw action en route to the team's fourth' straight victory. 
"When you play a team with such ,a poor record, you think the kids eould just go through the motions," Irish head coacl) Paul Mainieri said. "But they came out focused." 
Freshman Joey Williamson pieked up his first career vic­tory, going four innings and yielding three runs on eight hits. The Irish used a planned rotation and pulled Williamson before the fifth. Mainieri used six more pitchers before the night ended. 
Notre Dame plated live runs in the first inning, thanks to shaky Chicago State defense and Dury's first home run of the season. After Alex Nettey singled and Brett Lilley walked to put two on and zero 
see DURY/page 24 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Thompsons lead team again 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
The No. 28 Irish have recently showed glimpses of just how much potential they possess, shutting out Oklahoma State 7-0 on Saturday and nearly defeat­ing No. 35 Wisconsin 4-3 Tuesday afternoon. 
Notre Dame (8-8) claimed the doubles point in both contests. Of the last 16 matches, the team has secured the doubles point on 13 occasions. 
Facing Wisconsin (1 0-4), senior captain Sarah Jane Connelly and junior Kiki. Stastny were the first to walk off the courts in the doubles portion of the meet with a 8­2 triumph over Nicole Beck and Chelsea Nusslock at No. 
3. This was the pair's 20th win in the last 27 matches this season. 
Freshman Brook Buck and junior Lauren Connelly did not fare as well in their dou­bles match, falling to Caitlin Burke and Kaylan Caiati 8-3 at No. 2. But the No. 2 team of sophomores Catrina and Christian Thompson proved 
see POTENTIAL/page 24 


Sarah Jane Connelly, front, battles against Purdue on March 22. The Irish defeated Oklahoma State 7-0 on Saturday and fell to Wisconsin 4-3 on Tuesday. 


NO SOfTBAlL SMC TENNIS MlB 
MlB NCAA TOURNAMENT NCAA BASKETBAll 
LLI 

u Notre Dame pitchers Saint Mary's loses 6-2 Baseball's medical 
Boston trades Byung-Baylor proud of Michigan State looks 
z combine to throw per-to the University of advisor is under scruti-
Hyun Kim to Colorado women's basketball forward to seeing both 
s 
feet game against Chicago. ny for false biographical 
for two minor league team reaching Final men and women in 
= Valparaiso. records. 
Four. Final Four. 
players and cash. 

-c::z: 

page 21 page 21 page 20 
page 19 page 17 page 17
!;: 








