
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND, SMC review gay-straight organizations 
BOG approves club status of SAGA 
By KELLY BALE Nt•w.,Writer 
!·:motion lloodnd tlw last oflkial lllf'Pting of till' 2004-0!i Saint Mary's lloard of (;ovnrnancn as lllf'llliH·rs dPI>atPd and ultimatnly ap(li'OVPd thn Straight and c;ay !\ I I i a 11 ~~ o (S;\(;;\) of Saint Mary's See Also as a n~rog­
"Approval of nizPd l'luh. 
Straight and Gay
(I()(; Olf'lll­hPrs, by way Alliance raises of SPITPl hal­
questions"
lot, votPd 12-:~ to npprovP page3 SA!;;\ as a rluh. Tlu•rP WPI'P thrPP nbstPn­l.ions. lly n·1~niving rluh status, Si\( ;;\ is allotl('(l an initial $!i0 in l'undi11g from studont govprn­lliPilt. Tlw rluh also gains thn ability to advortisP PVPnts on <·arnpus and to liSP campus liu:ili­tiPs. 
MomiH'rs ol' tlw Saint Mary's I'OIIIIllUIIity atlPIHlPd thn IIIPnt­ing, including onn studPnt who 
r sec BOG/page 6 

Alliance denied for second straight year 
By KATIE PERRY News Writer 
In thn latnst chapter of a long-standing disagrennwnt, the Student i\ctivitins O!Tire rncently denied Unitnd in Divnrsity -a proposNl stu­dent-run gay-straight alliance -oflkial campus dub rnr.og­nition l'or tlw SIH'.ond straight ynat·. 
A Man:h ;{ lnttnr from Brian Coughlin. dirnetor of Studnnt Ar.tivities, n~fusnd Unit.Pd in I>iv~>rsity thn status of a sanc­tionnd Univ1~rsity studnnt organization for tlw 200!i-0(J ;u:ademi1: year. Coughlin quot­nd last year's rnj1~dion IP!tPr, saying "then as now" hP b n I i e v e s i n tlw r a t i o n a In bnhind tlw Studnnt A~:tivitins Of'lice decision. 
"It rnmains tlw pnrspnrtivn of thn Stud nnt AlTai rs Ol'f'i co that the dual goals or support­ing gay and lesbian stud<mts and educating the largnr cam­pus community can best lw 
see REJECTION/page 4 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Seniors oppose dome regilding 
Class president seeks support to halt process 
By MARY KATE MALONE Nt·w,Wriler 
!\ s t h P scaffold i11 g in du~ d rlosnr and dosnr to thn Virgin Mary, snnior class president 
I> a r r o II S<: otl so u g h t a n d ohtainnd thn Couneil of ll1~pn~snntativns' support of his initiative to halt thn n~gild ing procnss of' tho gold­Pn domn at last night's nwnt­ing. 
"I am asking to dnlay thn scaff'olding proendun~ until aft.nr May 16 !day of gradua­tion!," Scott said. 
The rngilding began March 
7. Since the process is highly eontingnnt on the wnather, its duration is not known. llowevnr. it is enrtain the scaffolding will completnly rovnr tlw dome on graduation day. 
Seott said then~ is little time to waste if thn senior elass hopes the dome will bn visible eomo graduation. 
Seott said he plans to organize an online petition pending the approval of the Office of Student Affairs. lie told reprosnntatives he met with two administration oiTi­cials last wnnk and was wait­ing for thn support of the Council before continuing the discussions. 
Student body president Adam Istvan expressnd firm support of Scott's initiative. 
"It is ridiculous to not start tho proeess after May 1 l1," Istvan said. "I give full sup­port of my office to Darrell." 
Aftnr receiving many e­mails from his constituents, Scott delved into the University's media archives to investigate tho details of the last time the dome was mgild­ed, which occurred in 1988. 
"I have been looking through Observer and Scholastic articles and have eonelusively found that the last time the dome was regild­ed they waitnd until after 
sec DOME/page 4 
Weis gets personal in talk on disabilities 


By LISA SCHULTZ 
News Writer 
Swamped with over I!iO appearancn requests since accepting his nnw position, Irish head football eoaeh Charlie Wnis made it dear Monday night that. the topie of disabilities aware­ness is "a hock of' a lot. morn important than fiJotball." 
"Oncn in a while, Ia rnqunst to speak! is something that touches our family," Wnis said about his d<~dsion to accnpt a rnquost from Notre Dame's Best Buddies organization to speak as part of Disabilities Awareness Wonk. 
Weis' nine-yoar-old daughter llannah is globally dowlopnwn­tally dnlay1HI. From birth, llannah has "fitlll'n umiPr a lot of umbrPIIas." Wnis said. includ­ing diagnoses of' polycystic kid­nny disnasn, autism and p1wva­sivn dnvPiopnwntal disordPr. 

Wnis is not reluctant to usl' his fame to raisl' awarntwss about disabilitins surh as his daugh­ter's. Although Hannah has made strid1~s. hn said t.IH•n• is still work to bP donn. 
"I promise you as long as I'm hero, awarmwss will be lwight­mwd," Wnis said. 
Aftm· Wnis rnmv<n-ed from a "near-death operation" in 2002. 
see WEIS/pagc 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, March 22, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Honk if you like runners 
As I was running along Juniper Road in the glorious 45-degree weather this past weekend -and no that is not sarcasm -something very strange happened. Well, strange to me at least. 
In the middle of 
Katie Perry 
track seven on my playlist, a quick beep-beep man­News aged to wrestle its 
Production 
way within the 
Editor 
notes of the song. After realizing the noise was external-R.Kelly's "Ignition (Remix)" was further down on the list .:...._ I looked elsewhere to find the ori­gin of the sound. By the time I had identified its source, the large silver vehicle from which it had originated had already long whizzed past me. 
In a moment of self-consciousness I immediately glanced down at my feet to make sure I hadn't veered onto the road. After quick inspection I had ver­ified that I was, indeed, entirely on the sidewalk. So, why the honk? 
I asked a friend about this, and he informed me that it was likely an overt and calculated display of mas­culinity. "It was definitely a guy," he said matter-of-factly. "Consider it a pick-up line on wheels." 
I am a firm believer that there are just some things that simply cannot be comprehended across gender lines. It's a known fact that men teem with countless inexplicable enigmas. However, this may just be the most puzzling I've encountered in quite some time. 
How exactly did this potential suitor want me to respond to his 50 mile-an­hour advances? Perhaps I should have tossed my iPod into the adjacent bushes, thrown my arms in the air and frantically sprinted toward the bumper of my prospective love's Ford Explorer. Bad he earefully etched his screen name onto the dust of his rear window? Or maybo he had hoped I would be prep11red for such an inci­dent with a pencil and paper, ready and eager to record the rapidly-van­ishing license plate -which was now a good 20 feet in the distance -for future reference. 
The more I thought about it, the more I failed to uncover an ounce of rationale. Of course I was reading into the situation far too much, as females generally tend to do, but for the remainder of that run all I could do was try to piece together the logic non-existent in the gesture. It wasn't that I was offended by the apparent chauvinism. And I wasn't even annoyed by the obvious interruption. I guess I was just dumbfounded. 
But while there are many things about males that perplex me, I'm sure there is an equal amount of attributes unique to females which garner the same reaction from the other sex. Why would somebody wear Eskimo boots with a skirt? Or find it neces­sary to have "moral support" when using the lavatory? Better yet-why would somebody put this much fore­thought into the simple toot of a car horn? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reporting error in the Man:h 21 edition ofThe Observer, Jim ChristofOretti was listed as the 180 pound Benj!i!l Bouts champion. Doug Bartels won the fight, defeating Christoforetti by split decision. The Observer regrets the error. 
Due to a ptodur.tion error in the March 21 edition ofThe Observer, Peter Sarpong was listed as the 126 pound Bengal Bouts champion. Danid Gallegos won the fight, defeating Sarpong by unanimous decision. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE BEST CAMPUS JOB AND WHY? 




Ben O'Connor  Brendan  Dave Brenner  
senior  O'Connor  senior  
Alumni  senior  Dillon  
Keough  
"The tray  "Preventative  
pusher-inner,  "My job. I'm a  maintenance  
because it's a  cluster consultant.  -ifit's not  
good cardio  You're like, 7 can't  broke, how  
workout.,  print!' I point to  hard could it  
the sign that says,  be . ?"  
'The printer is  
down., You're like,  
'Oh. ,,  


OFFBEAT 
No sign of wayward pet on doggy death row 
MIDDLEBORO, Mass. ­Zippy the pit bull is on the run. At least, that's accord­ing to animal control offi­cers who must find the dog and its owner, Austin Zipp, after a judge ordered the animal destroyed on Friday after months of legal wran­gling, dog-nappings, and other intrigue, The Enterprise of Brockton reported. 
"Zipp has again skipped town," said Timothy Houlihan, the animal con­trol officer in Sandwich where Zippy and Zipp last lived. "We will fmd that dog if it takes several years. We won't give up and we'll bring Zipp to justice." 

On May 4, Zippy attacked Middleboro Animal Control Officer William Wyatt as he was writing out a leash law citation. Wyatt had spotted Zippy and another dog run­ning loose outside Zipp's used car dealership, and was bitten as he was writing the ticket. 
5-year-old's tantrum leads to battery charges, arrest 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. ­A 5-year-old girl was arrest­ed, cuffed and put in back of a police cruiser after an out­burst at school where she threw books and boxes, kicked a teacher in the shins, smashed a candy dish, hit an assistant princi­pal in the stomach and drew on the walls. 





Rozann Carter  Mark Crnich  
senior Walsh  ·  senior Dillon  
"Walsh Hall football coach, because no one expects anything from  "Running the 7:oo pick-me-up, because ofthe women.  

The students were count­ing jelly beans as part of a math exercise at Fairmount Park Elementary School when the little girl began acting silly. That's when her teacher took away her jelly beans, outraging the child. 
Minutes later, the 40­pound girl was in the back of a police cruiser, under arrest for battery. 
lnfonnation compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
c:::: 
UJ 
:::1: 
!;;: 
UJ 
3: 
...I <C 
(.) 





0 
HIGH 45 HIGH HIGH HIGH
...I 
LOW 35 LOW LOW LOW 
35 
30 
40 
28 
43 
30 

them." 
IN BRIEF 
Thomas Reh of the University of Washington Department of Biological Structure will conduct a seminar on "Stem Cells and Regeneration: A Bird's Eye View" today from 4 p.m. to 5:15 in 283 Galvin Life Science Building. 
Lee Hamilton, vice-chair of the 9-11 commission and director of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, will give a lecture entitled "Fighting Terrorism" today from 4:15p.m. to 5:30 on the Decio Mainstage Theatre in the DeBartolo Center lor the Performing Arts. The lec­ture is sponsored by the Kroc Institute's Hesburgh Leetures in Ethics and Public Policy. 
A Stations of the Cross proces­sion will be held by candlelight campus-wide tonight from 7 p.m. to 9:15. The procession will bPgin at the Grotto, and Reconciliation will lollow at approximately 9:15 in the Basilica. 
Lynn Willis, Ph.D will give a lec­ture entitled "Alternative Medicine: Walking a Fine line" tonight from 7 p.m. to 9 in 102 DeBartolo Hall. The lecture is part of the Mini-Medical School Leeture Series and is presented by the South Bend Center for Medical Education. 
Gerhard Bowering, S.J., Professor of Islamic Studies at Yale University, will give a lecture entitled "Islam and Christianity: Pluralism and Fundamentalism in Tension" Wednesday from 5 
p.m. to 6:15 in C-100 Hesburgh Center. The lecture i<> sponsored by the Erasmus Institute. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 


Atlanta 62 I 50 Boston 49 I 30 Chicago 44 I 30 Denver 49 I 28 Houston 78 I 50 Los Angeles 65 1 54 Minneapolis 38 124 New York 52 I 38 Philadelphia 54 I 38 Phoenix 74 I 55 Seattle 56 I 40 St. Louis 48 I 34 Tampa 80 168 Washington 56 1 38 
Tuesday, March 22, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page .J 
BoARD OF GovERNANCE 
Approval of Straight and Gay Alliance raises questions 
~ .1 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saim Mary's Edi10r  among tho "complex needs and challenges" the Mission state­ment promises to address.  questions about thn purpose of the dub, grinn11d as the board's decision was announced at the  SAGA is not the lirst gay and lesbian group to be rneognized by Saint Mary's, nor is thn surround­ Shortly tlwrnal't!1r, student leaders renanwd tho group Thn Feminist Collodivn, mwrotn thnir  
"Providing opportunities for  end of tho mooting.  ing debate the lirst controversy  constitution and rnapplind to  
Board of (;ovnrnanen's (BOG) approval of tho Straight and Gay  people to addrnss these chal­hmgns within a l~tith based insti­ "I'm very pleas11d and very excited," Sehaell'nr said after. "I  at tho Collegn concerning sexual­ity. .  BO<;. They worn approvnd unani­mously on March !> and hold  
Alliance ISACA) Monday grants  tution snnms not only reasonable  can't say it came as a  huge sur­ On  March  3,  1997,  Tho  thnir lirst menting on Mard1 19.  
tlw group ol'lkial dub status at  but nneessary," Dolphin wrote.  prise, but you never know which  Alliance of Lesbian, Bisexual,  A f'nw years latnr, hownvnr,  
Saint Mary's and rnakns i~ nligibln  Frnshrnan Maggie Harrigan  way things are going to go."  Straight  and  af'tnr  failing  to  
litr student gowrnnwnt funding. Tho dodsion, hownvnr, carne aftpr hours of group doliboration  attnnded tho mooting wearing an orangn 'Gay'? Finn by me' T-shirt and dnseribnd tho 14-3 vote as in  Schaeffer said while she was allhmt11d by the repetitiveness of some of tho questions poised to  Questioning Women of Saint Mary's College  "/don't know many gay students  propnrly liln papnr work with studnnt activitins, Tlw  
and a wonk of BOG rnernbnrs' individual rnsoarch. At Uw lhrnfront of board mom­bnrs' concnrns was whotlwr  linn with Catholic tradition of acrnptanrn. "I think this a great day for Saint Mary's," Harrigan said.  her, sueh as whether the club would promote "homosexual acts,:· she said she was simply thankful they chose to go ahead  (ALBSQ), lnd by Saint Mary's stu­dent Carol Jones, applied for elub  on campus besides myse(f, hut I think straight students,  Fnminist Collnctive dissolvnd. Currnnt.ly, othnr groups on campus,  
rncognition of a gay-straight allianco would contradid tho olli­cial position of the Catholic Churrh on hornosnxuality and,  ''I'm roally proud that !the board! linally stood up and did some­thing that is right. I am glad that thny are showing pnople that we  and vote. "It's a big dee.jsion for people to make," SchaeiTcr said. "When pnople are presented with an  status. After researching the need for such a group on campus,  especially straight students, will bene,(lt."  such as Fnrninist United, aim to address a wide variety of women's  
thernfore,  violatp,  tlw  Saint  arn  really Catholic because we  issue such as this for the l'irst  BOG approved the  issues,  but  none  
Mary's Mission Statnmont. In a lottPr of support distrib­utnd at yestprday's nwnting, Sr.  arn loving and supporting our mnmbnrs." Womon 's studies coordinator  time, it is strnssful." SAGA treasurnr Sara Nielsen said she doubted whether other  pntition on April 7. A week later, then Collnge  Sara Nielsen SAGA treasurer  speeil'ically arn intendnd for gay students.  
Kathlenn Dolphin, dirndor of the  Astrid Henry also addressed a  dubs would have rec!~ived  the  President  Bill  Monday's  votn  
Cnntnr for Spirituality at the  lettnr to  BOG urging them to  same  scrutiny  but said  she  llickey deferred tho vote and  onee again nstablishnd such a  
Collnge, said slw did not ff1el  approve  SAGA's  understood  off'i­ promised to make a deeision by  dub at Saint Mary's.  
granting tho group dub status  petition.  Hnnry  eers' concerns.  the end of the academic year.  "I just think that this vote gons  
would  violatn  Saint  Mary's  said snxual orien­ "J think this is a  ''I'm just so glad  Ilickey, however, retired at the  along with Saint Mary's induding  
Mission. Dolphin dtnd a lnttnr, "Always Our ChildrPn," publishnd on thn Unitml Statns Conference  tation was added to the college's non-discrimination  great day for Saint Mary's."  that they voted yes because there real­ly is a need for a  end of May without addressing the issue and left it to his sueeos­sor president Marilou Eldrnd.  all women and educating on diversity issues," said studnnt diversity board prnsident  
of Catholic Bishops Web site,  policy in 2003 and  elub on campus,"  Nearly a yoar aftnr Alliance  Adriana Punnt11.  
which advocatos human rights for hornosnxuals. "SA(i;\'s intm1t is to foster such  wrote that "if SAGA is denied dub status merely  Maggie Harrigan freshman  Nielsen said. "I don't know many gay students on  membors submitted their original request for recognition, Eldrnd dcnind the group dub status on  Student body president Sarah Catlwrino Whit11 said it is undnar whether the Collngn administra­ 
communication among mnrnbers  boeause  of  its  eampus  besides  Fob. 27, 199R. Eldred's dedsion  tion has tho pownr to veto BOG's  
of the Collngn community rngard­ focus on  lnsbian and bisexual  myself, but I think straight stu­ spurred major student protnsls.  dedsion sueh as what. oeeurn~d  
ing issues related to snxuality  students, this denial may be a  dents, especially straight stu­ Supporters of the gay-straight  in l91J7 but express11d doubt that  
and g111Hinr," Dolphin wrote.  violation of the college's own  dents, will benefit."  group eovnrnd their mouths with  such action would be taken.  
"This lits with the College's mis­ anti-discrimination policy."  Public  relations  director  duet tape and camped out in Ln  
sion."  SAGA founder and president  Melanin  McDonald  said  the  Mans llall outside of Eldred's  
Dolphin addnd qunstions of  Megan SehaniTor, who attended  College was unable to comment  olliee for as many as night hours  Contact Megan O'Neil at  
snxuality "rank rather high"  both meetings to answer ollicors'  on llw BOG docision at this timn.  at a lime.  onei0907@saintmarys.edu  



cultural arts 

ticl~ets 

ON SALE
TRIP 
march 21-only ~0 ticket~ available! 
ADMISSIO~ IS
APRIL 13 half price 
DITUNE BO~ QDFICE ~~t 2!ickets per student id
t LAFO1\ ~ T limit 2Ids per student 



come see the world's #l show! 
brought to you by the student union board -sub.nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 22, 2005 
membership organization ue in the vein of resistance that permits the involvement that we have been acting for 
Weis

RejectionDoIDe 
of the many individuals who the past year and a half we continued from page 1 would like to belong to a stu­can achieve our goals in 
continued from page 1continued from page 1 

dent group," Gomberg said. some time." Coughlin said that while an Gomberg reinforced 
the coach's family founded its graduation," Scott said. 
aecomplished through the entirely tolerant environ­AllianceND's commitment to 
own charity -Hannah & Friends Representatives speculated 
structures already in place," ment has yet to be achieved, a student-run gay-straight 
-for people affeeted by autism as to why the dome's regild­
Coughlin said. gay-straight relations have alliance and assured the 
and global delays. Weis and wife ing process was such a press­
The structures alluded to improved of late. organization's persistence. 
Maura decided it was time to use ing matter. Some suggested 
in Coughlin's statement are "There is still much work "The students who make 
his visibility as a National Football the earlier time was chosen 
programs and committees to be done, but I believe we up AllianceND are some of 
League eoach to help people with to ensure the procedure was 
sponsored by the University­have seen progress in recent the most spirited, optimistic, 
disabilities other than Hannah. finished come fall -when a 
based Standing Committee years in terms of Notre brave and determined folks 
"I have some resourees most new coaching era will begin 
for Gay and Lesbian Student Dame becoming a more wel­I've ever had the pleasure to 
people don't have," Weis said. The for Notre Dame football and a 
Needs. Comprised of admin­coming environment," work with," Gomberg said. 
charity recently organized a new president will have 
istrators, faculty and stu­Coughlin said. "They and I aren't going 
Myrtle Beach golf outing that stepped up in July to lead the 
dents, the committee over­For AllianceND, however, apywhere." 
attracted celebrities including University. 
sees programming pertinent the strides in accept~nee and The first student gay­
New England Patriots quarter­Hegardless of the reasons 
to issues surrounding gay respect are vastly insuffi­straight alliance to ask the 
back Tom Brady. Thn quarterback for what many representa­
and lesbian students. cient. Citing student govern­University for official recog­
also serves on the Hannah & tives called the "untimely" 
"The current [system] is ment's winter report to the nition did so in 1986, 
Friends Board of Directors. toueh-up of the dome, Istvan 
designed to bring all mem­Board of Trustees regarding according to an article in the 
In the long term, Weis and his promised his administration 
bers of the University com­campus heter·osexism March 18, 2004 edition of 
wife plan to build a farm with a would utilize all its resources 
munity together to support (among other diversity issues The Observer. That year, the 
petting zoo, horse stables and a to ensure the University takes 
gay and lesbian students and at Notre Dame). Gomberg Office of Student Affairs 
home for four young adults with notice of the student body's 
· · heighten awareness on our said focus groups held by denied Gay and Lesbian 
disabilities who can work the opposition, going so far as to 
campus," Coughlin said. student government over the Students of Notre Dame and 
farm. llannah will be one of those allude to the need for a 
But for tfie organization course of this semester Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC) 
four residents. protest. 
behind the proposal, the sta­revealed a dissatisfaction official status but offered the 
"When Hannah gets on a horse, "This isn't something the 
tus quo is unsatisfactory. among students about the group Campus Ministry 
she's not worried about what the University is going to scoff at 
Anna Gomberg of eurrent means of handling resources. 
horse thinks of her," Weis said. He -I will call South Bend 
AllianceND said while the gay and lesbian issues. According to the 
also mentioned that a recent mile­media to come to the 
organization took last year's "!The reports] confirmed AllianceND Web site, similar 
stone for Hannah was bning able protest," Istvan said. "And 
denial into account when that students do not feel proposals have been refused 
to swim in the ocean during a the University will get bad 
formulating this year's there are sufficient nine times since that deci­
recent family vacation to the press." 
request, the. current resources to deal with sion. 
beach. Though Istvan emphasized 
University-run programs do GLBTQ [gay, lesbian, bisexu­Regardless of the obvious 
Best Buddies. an organization the need for a protest, Scott 
not fully meet the needs of al, transsexual, questioning] -differences in opinion, 
that pairs people with disabilities told representatives that he 
gay and lesbian students at concerns on campus, that Coughlin invited AllianceND 
with a friend in an effort to inte­believed peaceful negotia­
Notre Dame. many Notre Dame traditions and others committed to 
grate the disabled into society, tions between student gov­
Since last year, AllianceND may be insensitive to the these issues to continue to 
chose Weis because of his promi­ernment and those responsi­
has upheld its position that a positions of GLBTQ students, work with the Standing 
nence and popularity. ble for the regilding should 
student-run group would that ally training should be Committee, Campus Ministry 
"We thought it'd be great to get solve the problem. 
prove more valuable than offered to students and that and the Office of Student 
someone well-known so that peo­"I believe that the adminis­
one managed by the general social and educa­Affairs. 
ple would come to see him and tration will agree to stop the 
University, Gomberg said. tional programs are needed "This collaboration will 
then maybe get involved," co­procedure," Scott said. "But if 
"A student-run group is to better support the GLBTQ assist the University in 
president of Best Buddies junior not, then we will be prepared 
very different than one community," Gomberg said. accomplishing the goals 
Kat Roblez said. to do a constructive protest of 
headed by faculty or min­Despite repeated road­articulated in the Spirit of 
Weis commended the Notre dissent." 
istry, taking on a different blocks, AllianeeND and its Inclusion statement, of mak­
Dame-Saint Mary's community f()r tenor and allowing for a dif­members remain hopeful of ing Notre Dame 'a place of 
being "so proactive" about dis­In other COR news: 
ferent types of discourse, a future resolution. mutual respect, hospitality 
abilities awareness. +The council approved Alec 
student leadership opportu­"Although the continuous and warmth in which none 
"You should be proud of what White as co-director of pro­
nities and general campus string of refusals is frustrat­are strangers and all may 
you do," Weis said to the Best gramming for the Student 
involvement," Gomberg said. ing, I don't feel as if it has flourish,"' Coughlin said. 
Buddies who attended the talk. Union Board. 
Additionally, AllianceND deterred us," junior and SUB Manager Jimmy 
sees fundamental flaws in AllianceND member Alice Contact Katie Perry at 
Contact Lisa Schultz at Flaherty said White would be 
the com position of the cur­Bonifield said. "If we eontin-kperry5@nd.edu 
lschultz@nd.edu 
a perfect fit for the job. 

"Alec brings something to the table that is very unique, an infectious level of enthusi­asm," Flaherty said. 
Flaherty also asked the council to approve Caitlin Burns, who did not attend the meeting, as the chief con­troller for SUB. The council approved. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at 
mmalone3@nd.edu 
rent system. According to Gomberg, the present University-run organization does not provide a structure that allows straight students and gay students to foster the climate needed to make Notre Dame a truly accept­ing environment for alL 
"The Standing Committee is first and foremost an advi­sory board and campus resource; made up of eight students, not a club or open-

FLY FOR FREE NEXT WEEI<! 
If you've ever dreamed of being behind the controls If you're interested, we'll guarantee you a of an airplane, this is your chance to find out what free flight school, offer tuition assistance it's really like. and someday put you in a Harrier, 
Cobra or F/A-18 Hornet.
AMarine Corps pilot is coming to Notre Dame on Wednesday, March 30, to take you on trial flights. 
Get in the air. We're looking for afew college students who have Get some information. the smarts, skills and interest to be aMarine pilot. The flight is on us. 


Siz~le'ne (Sizzlelini'~) ­On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95! Asizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B;:>-}efie (Bellini)­A frosty, peach Italian work of art for $2! 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 

O>N'JACT YouR AtARIN£ Coni's OniCEI~ San.noN Tr:AM 
RESERVE YOUR SEAT TODAY! 
1st Lt. Barclay or Gunnery Sgt. Templeton 
765-479-1275 
OSOLAF@9MCO.USMC.Mil 

MAIHNE OFFICER PROGRAMS 

MarineOfficer.com 
1001 




ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, March 22, 2005 COMPILED FROM TI-l£ OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Annan presents plan to revamp U.N. 
UNITED NATIONS-Secretary-General Koli Annan unveilml a plan Monday to overhaul tlw llnited Nations and began the task of' sell­ing his vision to all II) I U.N. nwmber statns, urging them to make the proposals a reality wlwn tlwy nwet again in just six months. 
liP acknowlmlged that getting agrenment so quirkly won't bP c~asy l'or the United Nations, whpr·n memlwrs historkally have been loathe to sacrifice national intnrc~sts, and aetion on iss1ws largn and small ol'tnn hogs down in pol­itic·king. 
But Annan struck a pragmatic and urgnnt torw l'or his proposals, whkh would sen thn most signilicant makeover of' the world body since it was founded al'tm World War II by putting morn emphasis on development, secu­rity and human rights issues. 
"This hall has hnard nnough high-sounding dedarations to last us l'or some decades to ronw," Annan told the General Ao.;snmbly. 
Town given to Palestinian security 
TLJI.Ki\HEM, West Bank -Israelis and Palestinians n~arhed a deal Monday about handing over security control of tho West Bank town of Tulkarmn -another boost for a fledg­ling peace process. 
The handovnr could lwlp Palestinian ollieiats carry out a nnw dirm:tive rnslriding weapons in tlw hands of militants, who insist they'll romply only if' Israel withdraws from West Bank towns. 
Tulkarnm is the sncond of livn towns to bn dnliwrmt to Patnstinian sneurity as part of an agrnnnwnt to cmd four years or bloodshed that Palestinian tc~adnr Mahmoud Abbas and Israeli Prinu• MinistPr /\riel Sharon announced at a h~b. S summit. Palestinian militant groups issuPd truce declarations last. wonk. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Sex offender charged with murder 
INVt-:HNESS, Fla. -i\ convicted sex ollimder was l'orrnally charged Monday with capital murder and other crimes in the abduction and death of' a IJ-year-old Florida girl. 
.John Evander Couey, 46, was also charged with burglary, kidnapping and sexual battery on a child undt~r the age of' 12, ollkials said. llis arraignnwnt is set l'or Tuesday, ollkiats said. 
Authorities said he eonf(~ssnd to kidnapping and killing Jnssica Marin I.uns(iJI'(l after taking a lie-detm:tor tnst in <;oorgia. Tho girl's body was found Saturday, morn than thrne weeks after she vanislwd from her Florida bedroom. 
Ccnwy was brought baek to Florida and booked Sunday on a probation violation and failure~ to register his change of address. 

Court rejects 9/11 suspect's appeal 
Wi\SIIIN<;TON -The Suprc~mo Court on Monday rc>jectc>d terrorism suspect Zacarias Moussaoui's attempt to directly question t.hrc~e al-()aida prisoners and cleared the way for a trial of the only U.S. defendant charged in conr11wtion with the Sept. II attarks. 
ThP ruling allows the governnwnt to pro­nwd with plans to seek tlw death penalty if Moussaoui is convicted of partieipating in an al-<)aida conspiraey that ineluded the 200 I airplanP hijackings. 
Tlw .Just.icP I>PJHLrtnwnt said it would life a motion as early as Tuesday, suggesting a trial datP in Alexandria, Va. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Hoosier sentenced again to death 
SOUTH BI·:NJ> -i\ Mishawaka man whose death penalty was thrown out by the state Supn~rnn Court two years ago was sentenced again Monday to death. 
Thn samn St. Joseph County jury that eon­vietml Wayne Kubsch on Saturday sentenced him Monday to death for killing his wife, Bc~th Kubsch. lwr ex-husband Hick Mi11~wski, and their I0-year-old son, Aaron. 
The jury deliberated about 75 minutes before it. rcmehed its dedsion. Kubseh, 37, showed no readion at tlw verdid. 
School shooting rampage leaves ten dead 
Six students, including gunman, killed in wors't U.S. school massacre since Columbine 
Associated Press 
tUm LAKE, Minn. -A high school stud<mt went on a shooting rampagn on this Indian reservation Monday, killing his grand­parnnts at their home and then sevnn people at his school, "grinning and wav­ing" as he lirnd, authorities and witnessns said. The gunman was later found shot to death. 
It was the nation's worst school shooting since the Columbine massacre in 1999. 
Students pleaded with tho gunman to stop shoot­ing. 
"You could hear a girl saying, 'No, Jnl'l', quit, quit. Lmtvl~ me alone. What are you doing'?" Sondra ttegstrom told The Pioneer of Bemidji, using the name of the suspected shooter. 
Bnl'ore the ghootings at Hod Lake lligh School, the suspect's grandparnnts wnre shot in thnir home and died tater. 
Six students, including tho gunman, were killed at the school, along with a teacher ·and a security guard, FBI spokesman Paul McCabe said at a news con­ference in Minneapolis. 
llngstrom described the gunman grinning and wav­ing at a student his gun was pointed at, then swiveling to shoot someone else. "I looked him in the eye and ran in thn room, and that's when I hid," shn told The Pioneer. 
McCabe declined to talk about a possible connection· between the suspect and the couple killed at the home, but Hnd Lake Fire Director Homan Stately said they were the grand­parents of the shooter. lie identified tho shooter's grandfather as Daryl Lussier. a longtime officer with the Hed Lake Police Dnpartment, and said Lussier's guns may have bc~en used in the shootings. 
Stately said the shootnr had two handguns and a shotgun. 


"After he shot a security guard, he walkt:Jd down the hallway shooting and went into a classroom where he shot a teacher and more students," Stately told Minneapolis tnlevision sta­tion KAHE. 
Students and a teacher at the scene, Diane Schwanz, said the shooter tried to break down a door to get into a room where some students were. 
"I just got on the floor and called the cops," Schwanz told the Pioneer. "I was still just half-believ­ing it." 
Ashley Morrison, another student, took refuge in a classroom. With the shoot­er banging on the door, she dialed her mother on her cell phonn. ller mother, Wendy Morrison, said she could hear gunshots on tlw line. 
'"Morn, he's trying to get in here and I'm seared,"' Ashley Morrison told her mother. 
Schwanz was the teacher in that room. She said, "I just got down on the floor and (said), 'Kids, down on the ground, under thn benches!"' Shn said she called police on her cell phone. 
All of the dnad students were found in one room. One of them was a boy believed to be the shooter, McCabn said. IIn would not comment on reports that the boy shot himself and said it was too narly to spp,eulato on a motive. 
Fourtnnn to 15 other stu­
dents wore injured, McCabe said. 
The school was evacuat­ed after the shootings and locked down for investiga­tion, McCabe said. 
"It will probably takn us throughout the night to realty put the whole picture together," he said. 
It was the nation's worst school shooting since two studnnts at Columhinn lligh School in Littloton, Colo., killed 12 students and a teacher and wounded 23 before killing themselves on April 20, 1999. 
Tho last apparent fatal school shootings involving <t studcmt also happorwd in Minnnsota in SPptembor 2003, when two students were killed at Hocori ltigh School in Cold Spring. 
HAITI 


U.N. troops clash -with arm_ed soldiers 
Associated Press 
TEHHE-HOLJGE -U.N. pnace­keopnrs, eritieized for inaction dur­ing thnir 10 months in Haiti, are taking on soldiers from tho dis­banded army in clashes that left two peacekeepnrs and two Ilaitian l'ighters dead -and tho mission's military leader says morn is to come. 
Thn showdown signals a tougher stance against armed factions in llaiti ahead of fall elections and .rnllects a broader determination to crack down on militias that threat­on civilians where U.N. troops are 
deployed. 

The offensive in Ilaiti hogan Sunday when U.N. forces raided a police station occupied by armed former soldiers in Petit-Goave, 45 miles west of Port-au-Prince, set­ting of a gunbattle that kiltnd two former soldiers and one Sri Lankan peacekeeper. The Sri Lankan was the first fatality suffered by the 7,400-member force since it arrived in Juno 2004. 
Latnr Sunday, Nepalese soldiers driving to tho central town of llinche exchanged gunfire with a diffnrnnt group of former soldiers, · and one Nepalese peacekeeper was killed, U.N. spokesman Damian Onses-Cardona said. 
Then on Monday, about :wo Brazilian and Nnpaloso peaenknnp­ers backed by armored ears and holieopters raidnd tho town of Terrn-Houge, whore former soldiers had occupind a poticn station. Tlw 
U.N. foreo rntol1k tho an~a without casualties as the lighters retreated into the hilts, U.N. officials said. 
"The message is dear. Wn want these (ex-soldiers) out. They must give up their guns and submit to thn law," said Lt. (;en. Augusto Heleno Hibniro, the Brazilian corn­mander of the U.N. peaenknepors in Haiti. "We would prefer to havn a peaceful dialogun, but if wn can't wn won't hesitate to act." 

Tuesday, March 22, 2005 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 

BOG


Scheduling prevents 
continued from page 1

band's trip to Fresno 
made a non-verbal statement 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 

The Band of the Fighting Irish may be most famous f()r its half­time shows during football sea­son, but the band also serves as a vocal reminder of school pride at both home and championship basketball games. 
At Saturday's women's basket­ball game against UC Santa Barbara, however, Irish fans were left to cheer on their team with­out the holp of the band. 
Basketball band conductor Lane Weaver attributed the trip cancellation to academics. 
"Basically, the travel schedule precluded enough students that we "T,h issue and discussing it with their respective boards. 
were not able to go e optwns we song on tape at half-
because of academic were given time and again at the 
"A vast majority of the
demands," he said. would have end of the game 
[Junior] Board felt that this
"They would have to when we wop."
required too 
would be something good for
miss too mueh class." Band members Saint Mary's," junior class presi­The band is typical­many students expressed disap­dent Daniello Lerner said. 
ly presented with bet­to miss class. " pointment about the Saint Mary's SAGA founder
ter traveling options, miSSI~d trip. 
and president Megan Schaeffer
Weaver said. "We weren't happy
Lane Weaver 
was present at the meeting to
"Usually the band because we were
basketball band 
can travel the day kind of pumped to go 
before the game," conductor out there," Payne 
Weaver said. "The options we were given would have required too many students to miss class. Our students sign up with the under­standing that academics will be allowed for." 
A group of 29 students selected by band direetors had been slated to attend the game in Fresno. Chris Nichol, a Notre Dame junior trumpeter, described the difficul­ties of this year's trip. 
"In the past we would leave after class on Friday," he said. "This year we were told that we could leave Friday or late Thursday. We found out 
said. "We were told up until the night 
NAMIBIA before that we were going to get to spend the weekend in California and see the team play 

Pohamba sworn in as president
Saturday and Monday." 

reiterate the purpose of SAGA and to answer any BOG mem­bers' questions. 
"Addressing students that are close-minded !about gay issues] is why we are forming this group," Schaeffer said. "Every event we hold is open to the campus to try and address that awareness." 
Schaem~r also clarified SAGA does not have a national arnlia­tion. 
"[SAGA! would be our own group and address the needs of our campus," Schaeffer said. 
Some BOG members expressed concern with how SAGA would integrate a spiritu­al aspect, though board mem­bers like student trustee Sarah Brown thought the discussion of spiritual integration with SAGA was overdone. 
"To assume that this club has to integratn the Catholic tnach­ing into everything it does is offensive," Brown said. 
Other BOG members won­dered whether or not the group would promote the physical practice of homosexuality. 
"The social aspect of this club is not going to in any way pro­mote sexual acts between its members," Schaeffer said. "To keep bringing that up and mak­ing it an issue is ... homopho­
to witness the inauguration on the 15th anniversary of the coun­try's independence. 
Pohamba, Nujoma's hand­picked successor, promised to reduce unemployment, poverty and hunger. He also promised to light the scourge of the IIIV/AIDS pandemic. More than 21 percent of the eountry's 1.8 million popu­lation are HIV-infected. Namibia bic." 
Schaeffer said. the college already brings speakers to cam­pus to address sexuality from various perspectives, including the homosexual perspective. She also said it is' impossible to avoid oll'ending every individual on campus. 
Board members addressed concern that 
Off-campus commissioner Meghan Hanifin said after much consideration she too would support the group's application, even though a homosexual lifestyle contradicts the oflicial stance of the Church. 
"There are times when you need p1mple to help you through things and you need people to talk to," Hanifin said. "I have had moments in my life when I haven't lived my Catholic faith through." 
Sehiwfler reminded the board of the non-discrimination clause in the Saint Mary's College Handbook that prohibits dis­crimination based on sexual ori­entation. Schaell'er said she felt if BOG denied SAGA status based on its focus on gay and lesbian issues, they would be in violation of the dause. 
Contact Kelly Bale at kbaleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
also suffers from deep poverty and perennial food shortages. 
"I will now accept this mandate to lead the nation to greater heights ofpeace and stability," said Pohamba. 
The country's new Parliament was sworn in on Sunday with Pohamba's ruling South West Africa People's Organization holding 55 of the 72 seats. 
Summer Sessions Early Session 
May 23 -June 17 
Sum-mer Session 
May 23-July 1 
Summer Session 
July 5 -August 12 
Summer Session 
June 6-July 29 
Apply online today! www.luc.edu/summerOS 
LOYOLA 

~ ••I ~ UNIVERSITY ~ §CHICAGO ~ ..... 
0 1.:1 
~~At.\)~\· 
• 
Experience a premier national university ranked a "best value" by U.S. News & World Report.. 

• 
Get your degree faster­take up to 12 hours in just over two months 

• 
Take courses near Chicago summer fun at two diverse campuses located on the shores of Lake Michiga'n and in the heart of Chicago. 


1.800.262.2373 
summer-sessions@luc.edu 
Wednesday night that it probably 
wouldn't work out. From what we 
heard, the only way we could go 
is if we left at 11 a.m. Thursday. 
Band members had already made 
schedule adjustments to miss 
class, and [going on the tripI was 
too much." 
Although the oldest university 
marching band was unable to 
make the game, organizers were 
able to provide the audience with 
something of a substitute, 
explained Nathan Payne, a Holy 
Cross freshman who also plays 
the trumpet. 
"They told us they were going 
to hire a high school band in 
Fresno, which did not occur," 
Payne said. "Instead, · they played a fight 

by wearing a "Gay? Fine By Me" shirt. 
The meeting opened with con­tinued discussion of concerns about SAGA raised at the previ­ous meeting. Oflkers tabled the decision last week after realiz­ing members needed more time to think about the issue. 
Student body president Sarah Catherine White repeatedly thanked board members for their work and asked them to be respectful of the various views voiced. 
"It is a huge stop to be able to stand up for what you believe in," White said. "It is our duty to represent Saint Mary's." 
Individual board members spent the week considering the 
Weaver, who has attended past post-season tournaments with the band, agreed. 
"We were really mad because we were set on going to California," he said. "When it snows in South Bend, it gets kind of hard. It's fun to go out and sup­port the team in the post-season." 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel @nd.edu 
Associated Press 

WINDHOEK -President Hiflkepunye Pohamba was sworn in Monday, taking the reins of power from Sam Nujoma who led the country to independence. 
Despite heavy rains, thousands of Namibians crowded into The National Independence Stadium 
University of Chicago. 

THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Tuesday, March 22, 2005 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 


10,559.40 -70.27
}ones 

up: Some: Down: Composke Volume: 142 169 • 663,109,760 
AMEX 1,470.14 -13.XO NASDAQ 2,001.13 -6.66 NYSE 7,217.57 -59.27 S&PSOO I,IXI.X9 -7.76 NIKKEI(Tokyo) II ,X799.X 1 +104.31 FTSE IOO(London) 4,933.50 +10.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASCit>,Q IOOTR SER I (QQQQ)  -0.38  -0.14  36.37  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.33  -0.08  24.23  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.21  -0.05  23.36  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -0.17  -0.03  17.77  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  -0.48  -0.06  12.48  


30-YEAR BOND 0.00 0.00 48.1 I I0-YEAR NOTE 0.00 0.00 45.1 I 5-YEAR NOTE -0.10 -0.04 41.66 3-MONTH BILL +0.18 +0.05 27.47 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.24 57.24 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) -7.80 439.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) . +0.75 91.20 
Excha Rates 

YEN 105.11 EURO 0.7596 POUND 0.5268 CANADIAN$ 1.2110 
IN BRIEF Votes are in on Trump's casino plan 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. -Thn stakeholders in 
Donald Trump's lwleagunrnd casino company 
haw played tlwir cards. Thny'rn faen down for 
now, though. 
Investors. institutions and ernditors who held bonds, stock or claims in Trump llotel's &. Casino Hnsorts wlwn it fill'd for Chaptnr 11 bankruptcy had until Monday to turn thumbs up -or down -on his plan to rnorganizn. 
llnsPrurPd rrmlitors, such as tradnsmen and wndors owml money hy Trui11p llotnls, won't got to votn on t.lw plan; sincn they have been or will bn paid in full for thnir daims, t.hny are "unimpail'l~d" under bankruptcy law and thern­forP havn no stake in tlw vote, rnsults of which may not IH' rnv«•alnd until next month. 
Trump llotPis, which runs tlm~e Atlantic City hotPI casinos and a rivnrboat in Gary. Ind.. filnd filr ChaptPr I I in Novnmbnr, citing $1.8 billion in dnht. that has stranglml Trump's ability to kn«~p up and nxpand his casino propnrtins. 
lAC will purchase Ask Jeeves Inc. 
NI·:W YOHK -Tho nlnetronie comnwrce company that includns llomn Shopping Nntwork is buying Web search snrvice Ask .lonvns Inc. for $1.X5 billion, thn eompanins announcml Monday. 
Tlw dna! would put nntertainment mogul Barry Diller's IAC/IntorActivnCorp company into tlw highly eompntitivn and rapidly grow­ing busirwss of lnternnt search, whieh is domi­natnd by big players like Googln, Yahoo and Mkrosol't Corp.'s MSN snrviee. 
lAC holds a eollnetion of nlnetronie transac­tion businessns, ineluding the travel site l·:xpndia, the llome Shopping Network. Citysnareh, Tiekntmaster and the online dating service Mateh.com. IAC/lnteractiveCorp is planning to spin ofT its travel businnss into a separatn entity. 
Several major media companies have bought onlinn companies in recent months in a bid to get a piece of the rapidly growing lnt«mwt advertising business. The New York Tirnns Co. paid $41 0 million for About.corn; . Dow Jonns &. Co., publisher of The Wall Strnet .Journal, bought MarketWateh Inc. for about $500 million, and The Washington Post Co. bought the online magazine Slate from Microsoft. 


Tillle Warner, Inc. settles fraud charges 
Company will pay SEC $300 million and allow examiner to review finances 
Associated Press 
Nnw YOHK-Closing a d i l'fi cult chapter, Time Warner Inc. said Monday it would pay $300 million and restate three years of financial rnsults to snttle civil fraud charges stem­ming from its aecou nti ng of online advnrtising rev­nnuns and subscribnr eounts at its AOL unit. 
The settlenwnt with tho Sncuritins and Exchange Commission also calls for tlw world's largnst nwdia rompany to open its books to an indnpendcnt exam­irwr, whieh could result in additional rnstatmnents. 
The details of the deal, which include no admis­sion or denial of wrongdo­ing, are in linn with a pro­posal the company made and diselosecf last Dneember. At that limn, Time Warner also said it had agreed to pay $210 million to resolve charges of criminal securities fraud in a separate inves­tigation by the Department of .Justice. 

The combined $510 mil­lion settlements should give Time Warner a freer hand to pursue acquisi­tions. ineluding a joint bid wilh Comcast Corp. for the assets of Adelphia Communications Corp. But the agreements aren't expeeted to resurrect of'$15.41 and $19.90. to afl'ected investors. number of AOI. suh­Time Warner's stock, Time Warner CEO Dick Those payouts. whkh are seribers by counting whieh has lagged since its Parsons said in a state­akin to elass action distri­membnrs from bulk suh­disastrous merger with ment that the company butions, will be made scri ption sales to rom pa­AOL. Time Warner's stock was "pleased" to have under thn "Fair Fund" nins PVPn though tlw com­is still about 75 pMcnnt resolved the investigation, provision of thn Sarbanns­pany know that they had below the level it reached and was committed to Oxley Aet. not hnnn activated. in early 2000, when it cooperating with tlw inde­The SEC had accusnd Furllwr. lw«~ausn Tinw agreed to be acquired by pendent examiner and Time Warnnr of snveral WarnPr l'ailnd t.o treal the Dulles, Va.-basnd full"illing its other obliga­fraudulent acts. including AOL l•:uropo as a ronsoli­Internet company. tions under the settlement inflating its own onlinn datod husirwss from 
In trading Monday, Time with the SEC. The exam­advertising rnvenues with March 2000 to .January Warner shares slippnd 2R iner's report is expected a number of "round-trip" 2002, as it should havn, cents. or 1.5 pnrcnnt, to in about six months. transactions in which it tho company ovorst.at.nd elosn at $18.42 on the The settlnment was filed essentially provided other its financial rnsults for Nnw York Stock with the U.S. District eompanins with the t ho s e t i nw pe r i ods , llw Exchange, rnfleeting an Court for the District of means to buy online SEC said. Time Warner ovnrall dneline in the Columbia, whieh will also advertising. has sinen rnvisnd its market. Its shares have manage the distribution of The SEC also said Time results to rnflnd that traded in a 52-week range the $300 million penalty Warner overstated the change. 


Graco agrees to pay record civil penalty 
and the egregiousness or the failure to mcalls soon.
Associated Press report," CPSC Chairman llal Stratton Thn six deaths worn linked to Gram WASIIINGTON -Gra(~o Children's said in an interview. lnfitnt Swings. 7 million of which wnrn Products Inc. has agrned to pay a Under federal law, companins must recallnd in April 2000 af'ter rnports reeord $4 million penalty for belatedly immediately inform the commission that babies could fall out of Uw seat's reporting problems with car snats, after discovering any product defects leg openings or get trappnd in Uwm. high chairs, strollers and other prod­that pose injury risks or violate fimeral Morn reeently, 140,000 Graco Travnl ucts that resulted in hundreds of safety standards. That time limit typi­l.itn Infant Swings were recall«~d in injuries and at least six deaths. cally is interpreted as 24 hours. July after the company roenivnd 100 The company also is recalling 1.2 But the safety agency said Graeo and reports of children slipping out of million Graco Toddler Beds sold its subsidiary, Century Products, failed faulty seat belts and sustaining nationwide from 1994 to 2001. The to immediately report defects in 16 injuries such as bloody lips, bumps bods are linked to scores of injuries. difl'erent products sold from 1991 to and bruises. induding more than a dozen broken 2002. Stratton could not say when his Acquired by Hubbnrmaid in I996, bones, caused when children's limbs agency first learned of possible report­Exton, Pa.-based Graeo is now a sub­were trapped in the bed's guard r·ails ing violations. sidiary of Newell Hubbnrmaid Inc., or footboard. The products -more than 12 mil­formed in 1999. The civil penalty is the largest ever lion in all -included car seats, infant In a statmnent, Graeo denied know­imposed by the Consumer Product carriers, high chairs, strollers, swings ingly violating CPSC reporting rnquirn­Safety Commission, whieh planned to and beds. mcnts. It notnd the penalty "pertains announce the settlement and recall The products have been subject to to a time prior to Newell's acquisition" Tuesday. seven recalls since 1997, including of Graco, when the company was The penalty was sizable beeause of Tuesday's. The commission said it under a difl"enmt executive manage­"the number of consumer products expects to announce two more Graco ment team. 
r-­
1 
I page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 22, 2005 
Trio of challenges refused 
Supreme Court will not hear Pryor cases 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -The Supreme Court. dod!:,ting a charged dispute over judicial nominations, declined Monday to consider whether President Bush over­stepped his bounds in naming a federal judge while Congress was on a short break. 
The court refusml to hear a trio of cases challenging the "recess appointment" of William Pryor to the Atlanta-based 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals last year. The appeals argued that Pryor's temporary appointment was an end-run around the Senate's right to eonlirm or reject judidal nomi­nees. 
The justices' move avoids a con­tentious_ issue on the eve of a widely speculated vacancy on the court. If they had intervened, it would have set up a constitutional showdown over White House powers at a time when ailing Chief Justice William II. llehnquist is considen~d a strong prospect to step down this term. 
The Constitution gives presi­dents authority to fill vacancies for a year or two during a Senate "recess." At issue was whether a "recess" means whenever the Senate is not meeting, such as during short intra-session breaks; or only during the Senate's annual adjournment at year's end. 
In a statement accompanying the cert denial, Justice John Paul Stevens emphasized the eourt did not necessarily reject the case because the appeal lacked merit. lie suggested justices might be interested in hearing the case later when the appeals have run their full course in the lower courts. 
"It would be a mistake to assume that our disposition of this petition constitutes a decision on the merits of whether the presi­dent has the constitutional authority to fill future Uudicial) vacancies, such as vacancies on this court," Stevens wrotn. 
Last month, Bush renominated Pryor, whose term is sehnduled to expire at the end of the yBar, for a lifetime appointment on the 11th Circuit. 
"The president asserts the power to make 'recess appoint­ment..<;' of judges during any break of the Senate -including, literal­ly, even a break li>r lunch," wrote Thomas Goldstein, a Washington attorney representing Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., in the eases. 
"That unprecedented concep­tion of the recess appointments power obviously vitiates the cardi­nal authority of the Senate to pass· on the president's nominees," he stated. 
Bush administration lawyer Paul Clement countered that it has been long-standing practice for presidents of both parties to make recess appointments, including 12 Supreme Court jus­tices, anytime the Senate is not meeting. 
"A recess appointment power that could be freely invoked dur­ing a one-day inter-session recess, but would be categorically barred during a three-month intra-ses­sion recess, would be 'irrational,"' Clement wrote, noting that intra­session recesses often are one month or more. 
Rural h-ealth officials unprepared for terror 
Small states do not have resources to face attacks on food supplies, nuclear power facilities 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Hural health officials believe they are woefully unprepared to respond to a possible terror attack on food supplies, nuclear power facilities or other targets. 
A survey of health officials in 26 states also found that most rural areas would not be prepared for a bioterror attaek or have the resources to handle a surge of people f'leeing urban areas under assault.. 
The study, sponsored in part by the Harvard School of Public Health and the Cities Headiness Initiative, a pilot program by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to respond to large-scale public health emergencies, such as bioter­ror or nuclear attacks. 

Eighteen of the states sur­veyed were defined as rural by the U.S. Census Bureau, while eight were defined as urban. 
Of the rural states, 18 per­cent received high rankings for bioterrorism preparedness and 6 percent received the readiness funding. By compar­ison, 63 percent of the urban states ranked high on the pre­paredness list, and 75 percent 
got the funding. 
The survey listed 
University of "There are specific, a number of vul­Pittsburgh, nerabilities unique
direct targets in 

comes as the to rural areas. It Homeland rural Ameri~a. " noted that water Security supply and energy Department is sources, inducting
Michael Meit

proposing nuclear plants,
Center for Rural

awarding fed­usually are based 
Health Practice

eral aid to in rural communi­states and director ties. Militia activi­
localities based on the level of threats they face. Small and rural states fear such an approach would dramatically cut funding for their emer­gency responders. 
The survey, which will be released Tuesday, was obtained in -advance by The Assoeiated Press. 
"I don't think anyone in rural America is asking for the kinds of resources that urban America is getting," said Michael Meit, director of the University of Pittsburgh's Center for Rural Health Practice in Bradford, Pa. "We just want to make sure that rural areas aren't forgotten about, and that we're getting enough resources to be pre­pared at an adequate level." 
"There are specific, direct targets in rural America," he said. 
The survey took a second look at 26 states that ranked among the highest and lowest in a 2003 assessment of bioterrorism preparedness. It also examined which states 
.received funding from the 

ties are more com­
mon in rural areas, as is the potential for farm terrorism, the survey said, noting: "One cow down can paralyze an entire beef industry." 
Infectious disease spncialists tend to live and work around major medical centers in cities, the survey said. Meanwhile, the $27 million CDC program to distribute vaccines from the Strategic National Stockpile, pulled money from rural areas to fund 21 cities. . CDC spokesman Von Hoebuck declined to com­ment on the survey but said the pilot program was meant to determine how best to distribute the nation­al stockpile during an emer­gency. 
"You're looking at areas, and sure they're urban, but they also have urb-an reach," Roebuck said. "They're cities that are next door to other areas. You're looking at how you could distribute something quite quickly and take those les­
'> •:..8·/ '<::W:>ft, ;;::.-= '-""" , ':::-:-.w:fJjf::--''Fi~:,:.,~,;f:;=<:.;< ~ ~ ' ' 
.Wrestle, Ronder and Debate WitH C:ivilizat'i~n's:Most 



FASCINATING STUDENT BODY! 
Do you enjoy lively discussion? Would you rathe.r read a great book than watch rn~diocre TV? Want to join an intellectual odyssey with others who are passionate about ideas? join U~ 
Meet Your Major: Program of liberal Studies. Coleman­Morse lounge; Tue., March 22, 7:00-8:30 p.m. 
.,. . PR(L)tiR~M OF [IBER~U S"Fli.IDIIS. ,, 
GREAT BOOKS: THE BEDROCK FOR A Lll EHME OF lEADERSHIP 
.....':,;.:" ,;,;,,, ~~--:;:-.::::~~~:,,:;;.}. ;:;":,,,'>-:::~,~-~---,"'~----~ ':'/' '..:-:;:t'·:/i ' ' -, .......,~--?~,¥~-~-' ,, 
sons from the city areas and also apply those to other parts of the country." 
Under Homeland Security's budget proposal for the 2006 fiscal year, each state would receive a minimum of $2.6 million in federal grants. or a total $3.5 billion set aside for all grants to states and locali­ties, more than $2 billion would be awarded based on risk. 
The mayors of the nation's three largest cities are keep­ing a wary eye on the funding as well. Last week, Mayors Michael Bloomberg of New York, James Hahn of Los Angeles and Richard M. 

Daley of Chicago  "There needs to be  "There needs to  
urged Homeland Security S e c r e t a r y  some equality in preparedness."  be somP equality in preparedness," said Hep. John  
Michael Chertoff  Peterson, H-Pa.,  
to  ensure  big  Rep. John Peterson  who endorsed the  
cities  reeeive  R-Pa.  survey with Sen.  
enough money.  Tim Johnson, D­ 
"As you know,  S.D. "If you  let  

terrorists have targeted major the cities, they will have all population areas in the past the preparedness. That is a and can be expected to do so mistake." again," the mayors said in a Also involved in the study letter to Chertoff. was the Maine Cnnter for 
"With so much at stake, and Public Health, the University given the Herculean efforts of Pittsburgh, the University of being made to protect our North Carolina, Texas A&M cities, distributing homeland University and the University security money based on poli­of Minnesota. tics rather than risk -and The survey grew out of a risk alone -is uncon­September conference of rural scionable and dangerously public health officials in St. wrong," the mayors said. Paul, Minn. 
· Chertof'f has said the risk 
assessments will not be based 
solely on population. 
"I quite agree we need to 
move away from a population­

driven or size-of-state-driven 
model," Chertoff said under 

questioning earlier this month 
by Sen. Susan Collins, H­
Maine. 
"We ought to be focused on 
risk,". Chertoff said. 

Collins and Sen. Joe Lieberman, D-Conn., pushed an amendmnnt through the .Senate last week to increase Homeland Seeurity's budget by $855 million -largely to ensure small and rural states don't feel a fund­
ing cut. 



Tuesday, March 22, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
President signs bill 'to save a life' 
Congress intervenes in Schiavo case after Friday tube removal 
Assodatcd Press 
WASIIINGTON -Congn~ss' intnr·vnnlion in tlw case or Tnrri Schiavo acrnlnratnd as (:lorida Gov. Jnb Bush warnnd kny Bnpublieans that stale drorls WIH'n fallnring. It nndnd early Monday whnn l'rnsidnnl Bush sigrwd a bill dt~signnd to savn a life. 
Tlw inlnrvnning rnw days wnrn marked by lngislalive and lngal maneuvers, lol'ly talk of morality and politkal t~akulalion -and a moment of snnalorial trust in a Congrnss whnrn polarization ol'lnn prnvails. 
"ll is wisn to always err on thn side of life," l'n~sidnnt Bush told an audinncn in Tucson, Ariz., hours af'lnr signing the mnasure. Sponsors hope the bill will prompt a fndnral judgn to ordnr the rninsnrlion of a ftH•ding t.ulw that providns thn nourishmnnl rwcessary for llw brain-darnagnd Schiavo to survivn. 
Tho tulw was rnmovnd Friday al'lnr a statn eourt rul­ing. 
In Florida. Cov. Bush had hopnd thn Hnpublican-con­lrollnd lngislaturn could step in lwfornhand to knnp the tulw in plaen. 
But niTorls to pry a bill from thn legislature failnd. and the govnrnor talked with several leaders of both houses or Congress during the week. "lin said, 'If there's anything you can do please don't stop. You nnnd to be doing it,"' rnrallnd Snn. Mnl Martinnz, H­Fla. 
Hnpublicans in Congress, backnd by lnadnrs of the rnli­gious right. had long bnen monitoring the situation ­thn woman, brain-damaged for 15 ynars sine~1 a hnart attack; the praynr vigils out­side the hospiee where she livns; and the court battles. 
Among them was Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, a physit~ian with pn~sidential ambitions in tho party where support from social conserva­tivns is prized. 
In remarks on the Senate floor on Thursday. thn Tennessee Hepubliean quoted several passages from a med­ieal textbook. lin said ho had vinwnd a court-ordered video­tapn of Schiavo and talked with one of the neurologists who had examined her. 
Emphasizing that he was "speaking morn as a physi­cian than as a U.S. senator," Frist coneludnd, "there seems to be insuflieient information to eoneludn that Terri Schiavo is in a persistent vegetative stale." 
lin east her situation in starkly moral tnrms. "Somebody is being con­demned to death. somebody who is alive," he said. 
Sen. Hick Santorum, H-Pa., a prominent abortion foe who faces a difficult re-eleetion race in 2006 and also holds prnsidential ambitions, also injected himsnlf into the issue. 
lie told fellow GOP leaders last week he was prepared to hold up passage of any legis­lation if necessary, ineluding the budget, to foree action on a bill to give federal courts jurisdiction in Schiavo's case. These aides spoke on eondi­lion of anonymity, eiting the eonfidentiality of the discus­sions. 
Just as in Florida, there 

wnrn problems finding a corn­promise that eould pass Congrnss. 
Tho bill that passnd the House Wednesday, advanced by Bop . .James Sensnnbrenner and otlwrs, extended beyond Schiavo. A spokesman for Sensenbrennnr, chairman of tho Judiciary Committee, said the Wiseonsin Hepublican had worked closely with Sehiavo's parents in writing the bill, and added that the National Hight to Life Committee had supported his approach. Senate aides in both parties say llouse leaders had been warned in advance the meas­ure would not make it to the White llouse. 
The prndieted opposition arose in tho Senatn on Thursday. But a few hours later, Snnate Demoerats and Republicans joined to pass a narrownr measure. By this time. the llouse had adjourned for a two-week Easter vacation. 
Politics flarnd Friday. 

llousn Majority Leader Torn DeLay of Texas accused thren Senate Democrats of having "put Mrs. Sehiavo's lifo Hl risk to prove a point -an unprecedented profile in cow­ardice. The American people are not interested in squab­bles bntwnnn Hepublicans and De'mocrats, or between the House and Senatn." 
But Sensenbrennor himself came in for eritieism later that evening. .James Dobson, head of Focus on the Family, a conservative group, said the senator had "personally stopped this reseue effort in the House." Dobson spoke on Fox News Channel's "llannity and Colmes." 
Lafayette Square Townhomes Newly remodeled 4and 5-Bedroom 
Townhomes for 2005-06 , Only $210 Per Student! 
4& 5Private bedrooms-SPLIT the rent! 3floors ofliving space+ patio area 
Central air I cable hook-up r-..·--...-...... _......_........ . . . . Stove, fridge, dishwasher i Visit our H'ebsite at ! Washer I Dryer in EACH unit 
www.REA1Cl.com Close to campus 
I.............................._....-..._.................................... . ADT monitoring systems 
24-hour emergency maintenance 

Call for ashowing today! 574-234-9923 
:~ i 
I
I ' I 

l 
Student" 1 
i 
....................-.......J 
There are also afew 2-bedroom apartments available at Notre Dame Apartments for just $500-$6QO/month. 
Man faces death for smuggling attempt 
19 illegal imnzigrants died in 2003 transport 
Associated Press 

IIOUSTON -.Jurors in tho trial of a man at~cusnd of driv­ing and abandoning an unwnti­lated trailer packed with more than 70 illegal immigrants deliberated about seven hours Monday beforn rneessing for the day without a verdict. 
Deliberations will rnsurne on Tuesday in tho trial of Tyrone Williams, who faces thn death penalty if convicted for his role in the May 2003 smuggling attnmpt in which 1<J of the pas­sengers died. It was nation's deadliest smuggling attempt. 
The 12-membnr jury sent U.S. Distriet .Judge Vanessa Gilmore notes on Monday with tlnen questions relatnd to language in the court's instructions. 
The jurors got the case late Friday and took the wnektmd off. 
Prosecutors said Williams was paid $7,500 by a smuggling ring to transport morn than 70 illegal immigrants in his swel­tnring tractor-trailer from llarlingnn to llouston. 
They told jurors Williams ignored the immigrants' scrnams for help during the 
four-hour journey, abandoning the trailnr at a truck slop in Vietoria, about 100 mil11s south­west of Houston. SeventPI'n pnoplo died inside llw trailer from dehydration, hyper·tlwr­mia and sul'f'oc~ation, and two others dind latl'r. 
Defnnsn attorney Craig Washington rnairitained that while Williams was guilty of transporting the immigrants, thn responsibility for tlw IIJ deaths fell on lhn other nwm­bers of thn smuggling ring. 
Williams, 34, is tho only orw of 14 defendants in tho case· who could gnt the dtmth pPmtl­ty. Prosecutors have said Williams faces exnnrtion if con­vietml because he alone had tlw power to free the immigrants. 
In l>neember, two other defnndants in thn easn wnre wnvictnd of various smuggling eharg11s and still faen snntnne­ing. Chargns against. anot.lwr defendant wnn• dismissed. 
Tlw trial of another dnfnndanl in tlw ease is on hold. Fiv(~ oth­ers plnadnd guilty. Onn man rmnains a fu),{itivn. Prosecutors have not dn(~idnd whntlwr to seok thn death JWnalty against thrnn othnrs. 
Jackson late to trial again 
Examination continues, w.itnesses testzfy 
Associated Press 
SANTA MARIA, Calif.-A fee­ble-looking Michael Jaekson arrived late again Monday to his ehild molestation trial, but the judge took no apparent action -and the star sat through testimony from a psy­ehologisl who asserted few child sex abuse allegations turn out to be falsn. 
Jaekson, who is said to have back problems, trembled and wept at thn defense table as lawyers and a doctor who camn to court in hospital scrubs eon­ferred in chambers with Judge Hodney S. Melville. 
The judge, who previously threatennd to arrest Jackson and revoke his bail when hn was latn on Mareh 10, gave no nxplanation of what was dis­cussed and ordered testimony to resurnn. 
Jaekson spokeswoman Haymone K. Bain said she spoke with the singer late Sunday and he told her he was having severe and sometimes excruciating baek pain. "lie said his back was killing him," she said in a telephone inter­view from Washington . 
Jaekson, 46, arrived just min­utes late, unlike the March 10 incident, when he turnod up more than hour late in pajama bottoms and slippers. 
This time Jaekson was fully dressed, wearing a black suit, broeade vest and a blue arm­band, but his hair was mussed and his stops were tentative. lin turned weakly to acknowledgn fans on the street, then walked unsteadily into the eourthouse with his brother Jaekie and a security guard holding his arms. 
As .Jaekson left eourt six hours later, a reporter asked him what had happened in the 
morning. Jackson looked baek and moved his mouth but no words came out. lin then said he was "very much hurt" and was on medieation "by way of a doetor." 
Jackson is accusnd of molnst­ing a boy at his Nnverland ram~h in 200:~. giving him ako­hol and eonspiring to hold thn boy's family captive. 
Prosoeution witness Anthony 

J. Urquiza. a psychologist who has not intnrviewnd Jackson's accuser. descrilwd "child sexual assault aerommodalion syn­dromn," in which youngsters beeonw seerntive, feel lwlpless and trapped, delay n~porting acts of abusn. and finally lnarn to copn with the situation. 
lie said ehildr·en orten undnr changes in behavior bncause of the abuse, induding "acting out, bneoming dnl'iant. namn-eall­ing." Under questioning by thn prosecution, the witness said that can include talking baek to teachers and getting into fights -the kind of mislwhavior seen in Jackson's accuser. 
During cross-examination, defensn attorney Thomas Mnsernau Jr. asked the psydwl­ogisl whether Jackson's aecusnr may bn lying. 
"Let me ask a hypothetical question," Mesernau said. "You've got a mother and three children. There is not a fatlwr ligun~ presnnt. Tlwn~ has betHl a traumatic divoren of reeont vintage. For whatevnr reason. the mother and hnr ehildrnn pick someone and adopt that person as their fathnr figurn ... and suddenly thnre is a split. The mother. tho children son that the pnrson they've adoptnd as a father figure is bailing out. You can imagine ... a situation like that where the mother induees the children to make false claims of sexual abuse." 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, March 22, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
Gleams thy gold and blue? 
P.O. Box 779, Norr~ Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
It's springtime at Notre Dame. I know from all over the country and world, scaffolding from the dome during May's EDITOR IN CHIEF this fact despite the frigid winds, which poised to take that graduation picture commencement weekend. Students of Claire Heininger accost me as I make the trek from the C in front of the golden dome. Many of any year, alumni, parents, faculty 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER lot to DeBartolo. Let's face it. No one these groups will never all be together members and administrators will be Pat Leonard Mike flanagan ever said they came to this school for on Notre Dame's campus again. Oh able to sign it at www.nd.edu/-dsa­the weather. well, I'm sure a dome covered in scaf­viano. 
Katie

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds This year the folding will add a lovely prison ambi­Admittedly, scaffolding covering the AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas changing dates on my Boyle ence to hundreds of commencement dome is not an earth-shattering prob­AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden calendar were not my photo albums. lem when one considers the poverty 
sole reminder this For VVhat It's Traveling to Notre Dame is an expen­and war raging across the globe. SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 
milder season had Worth sive proposition for many families, But neither does it demonstrate the SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gotrumukkala arrived. I've been and graduation weekend caring I have come to expect SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil receiving a plethora of graduation will be the first time on from the Notre Dame family. PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley information, not to mention numerous campus for a good 
If this new project shows GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch e-mails from my mom reminding me to number of seniors' their concern, I'll take ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri get my act together and figure, out my parents. While I Cinderella's wicked AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning family's plans for the weekend. (Trust realize the impor­stepmother. 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen me, mom. Just as soon as I finish my tance of an 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter thesis). intact dome However, something is different about during football 
CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg campus this spring. And it's not just the weekends, OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO nostalgia I feel every time I realize I'm Notre Dame 
(574) 631-7471 experiencing another "last." (Look for claims it is FAX the teary eyed girl in the home-style first and fore­
(574) 631-6927 

line at North Dining Hall). most an aca­
ADVERTISING 

Last week, I was walking on God demic institu­
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

EDITOR IN CHIEF Quad. The sun was brightly shining, tion, and per­
(574) 631-4542 reflecting off of the ... hideous gray haps should 
MANAGING EDITOR scaffolding obscuring the golden dome? consider college (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
"Now that's attractive," I thought. and commencement,
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

continued to ponder other more press­which will only 
(574) 631-4324 
So e-mail this site to everyone you know, and please 
feel free to e-mail me with any ques­tions or com­ments. Or you can always look for me crying over my 
last North Dining 
Hall piroghi. 
It is my hope that once administrators realize students' feel­

ing matters, such as what time it was occur once in stu­ings about this issue 
BUSINESS OFFICE 

(574) 631-5313 and which class I was supposed to be dents' lives, to be they will attempt to rem­NEWS DESK heading toward at that particular hour. more important. edy the situation. I cannot 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu Avid reader of The Observer As I'm convinced global believe that they simply don't 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

Viewpoint that I am, I noticed a letter warming has yet to reach care.
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
by Kevin Rycyna later in the week, South Bend, I also doubt much As graduation approaches, I am con­
SPORTS DESK 

which informed me that this scaffolding progress will be made on the regilding tinuously reminded of how much I "love 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu SCENE DESK is not merely a fleeting eyesore, but project prior to graduation. The fall is thee Notre Dame." In what amounts to 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu part of a regilding project which is to typically a much balmier time than the an open plea, I ask that students be 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 

continue throughout the summer spring in Indiana, which again forces · considered in the regilding project. 
smc.l @nd.edu 

months and be complete before the me to question the administration's After all, graduation wouldn't be com­
PHOTO DESK 

first home game. decision to begin the regilding process plete without a little rain, the smell of 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 

SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS While I understand the administra­now. ethanol and our steadfast golden dome. 
(574) 631-8839 tion's anxiousness not to offend the While it's easy to merely complain legions of plaid pants-wearing alumni about the scaffolding, a school that I Katie Boyle is a senior English, politi­
THE who visit each fall, I am appalled at love, the University of Notre Dame, has cal science and Spanish major. She canOBSERVERONLINE their lack of consideration for the grad­taught me that I must do much more. be reached at kboyle2@nd.edu.
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

uating senior class. (Hey, we might With this object in mind, several of The views expressed in this column POLICIES have plaid pants someday too.) my friends and I discussed the possibil­are those of the author and not neces­The Observer is the independenr, daily newspaper Parents, family and friends will be in ity of starting a petition to remove the sarily those ofThe Observer. 
published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR

institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. 
A culture of hypocrisy?
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Late Sunday night President Bush signed a bill that course, we are at least going to take great care to ensure
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. would allow the case of Terry Schiavo to be heard in a that our own servicemen's lives are protected, right? Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include Federal District Court in Florida. The president issued a Sorry. When it comes to budgetary concerns, this adminis­conract information. statement that read in part: "Our society, our laws and tration's "culture of life" values tax cuts for the rich over our courts should have a presumption in favor of life." I, veterans' benefits. His "culture of life" unrelentingly Questions regarding Observerpolh·ies should be for one, am really tired of this "culture of life" propagan­seeks to protect unborn fetuses, but stops short of making
directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
da that this administration keeps using to energize its sure all of them have proper medical care after they are religious base. So let's look at the president's "culture of born, again recommending large cuts in Medicaid to make POST OFFICE INFORMATION life," not in terms of the propaganda-laced tirades that we up budget deficits run up on his watch. And this is just The Ob.~rvcr (USPS '199 2-4000) ill published Monday through Friday cxc~pt during hear spewed around every time there's political ground to the tip of the iceberg. 
exam nnd vaation periods. Asubst:rlption to The Observer is $100 fOr one academic 
year; $55 !Or one !>CnlC5ttJ'. be gained, but in terms of what is actually being done to Personally I think that an emphasis on lil'e is a good preserve this "culture of life" at ground zero. approach to the complex moral questions our society Well, first there's Bush's stint as Governor of Texas faces. Unfortunately, the political propaganda being
The Ob.~rvcr l~ puhli:.h('c\ at: POSTMASTER · 

024 South Dining Hall Send address eon"«dom w: · where he de facto presided over the Texas criminal justice regurgitated by this deceitful administration is a poor
Notre D:ame, IN 465S6-0n9 The Observer 

Periodical postage paid .n Notre Dame P.O. Box: 779 system, a.k.a. "The Hocket Docket to the Death Chamber." substitute for the duties and responsibilities a true culture 
and addidlm:!.l mailing office.~. 024 South Dining II all 

Not only did Texas executions alone outpace the rest of of life would place on all of us.
Nom: Dame, IN 465'56-077(_) 
the country during that time period, Bush even went so far as to mock those being put to death (see Karla Faye Matthew Moberg 
The Observer i... a mcmlll'.:t ofthe A.-;s(X;iated Pre....~. All reproductiun rights 8l'c Tucker). Then of course there's the ever-popular war in off-campus 
reserved. 

Iraq, where the "culture of life" is spread to many inno­graduate student cent Iraqis via cluster bombs of collateral damage. Of March 21 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Nicole Zook Dan Tapetillo 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Maddie Hanna Ken Fowler Karen Langley Kate Seryak 
In your NCAA bracket, how 


Submit aLetter
Julie Bender Scene 
"War does not determine who is 
many teams do you have left in

Viewpoint Maria Smith 
right -only who is left. " 
Katherine Rowley Illustrator your Sweet 16? Graphics Katie Knorr 
to the Editor at 
Bertrand Russell

. Desiree Zamora 
Vote by Wednesday at 5 p.m. 

British philosopher
www.ndsmcebserver.com
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Tuesday, March 22, 2005 page 11 
U-WIRE LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Life after 21: Living it up 
I used to love my birthday. With the exception of' tho early ynars, when those jokosters who call tlmmselves my parnnl<> us11d trkk candles that practically caused IL<>thmatic fil<>. my birthday has always bmm a pretty cool day. 
Until now. 
Calla 

In less than 24 hours, I will be 

Ball 

turning the praetkally midli!e age of 
22. It's not sweet like 16, legal like Boston 1 X or much anticipatod like 21. Look University at it filrward, look at it backward, it Daily Free doesn't get any dif1(1r11nt-it's 22 no Press mattor whkh way you slice it. As Jnsska Simpson put it on her 23rd birthday "23 is almost 25, whieh is almost mid-20s." I couldn't have put it better mysnlf. unless of course I WIL<; conscious. 
Tho day shall bnar the excitement of a d11ntist appointment. I have my usual Tuesday 9:30 a.m. to 9 
p.m. chL<>s-and-work day (my favoritn), and IL'> an added bonus, the fi1lks at financial aid decided to scheduln my exit intnrview for my loans at 9 a.m. I'm pmtty sure tlwm won't bn cake and flowers when they say "Good morning! llappy Birthday! You owe us 20 h>'l'and!" Oh how 22 nw~hes out and strangles my inner child. 
Evnrything that's qwL<>i acceptableDn this, my last day of' bning 21, will no longor bo acceptable as of mid­night Monday. Whiln the 21st birthday hangover was horderlino charming, the 22nd birthday hangover erossns the border of pathetk. The fad that I don't havn a job goes from understandable to concerning. I don't think I'm allowml to watch "The O.C." anymore unlnss I'm babysitting. Turning The Daily Free Press into a drinking game'? Forgot about it. Entertaining bnmmns 12-step worthy. '1\venty-two is the ag11 whnre you start describing yoursnlf as "in my 20s," which might as wnll b11 "almost :~0." or, as painful a<> it is to say-an adult. 
Fully a warn of tho pending expiration or my get-out­ol'-dignity-f'rnn card, I spnnt this last weekend as though I was on dnath row -lot it not bo said that I don't have a flaw fiw tlw dramatic'.. I flippod back and li>rth lwtwnnn "Tho O.C." and baskntball bnlim1 going 100 pon~ont Irish on St. Patriek's Day and knocking back Killian's like water. Friday WIL'> all about the Madness, and bneause I WIL'> still baskally a child. I WIL'> able to hrPak down and sob when Syracuse lost to Vermont. What if I had bmm an adult when that happened? Would I have had to shrug my shoulders and commend the Catamount.'> on their win'! Would I have to be happy li1r their coach, advancing to round two in his lao;t sea­son of c~oaching'! 
Saturday WIL'> tho big night. It was last weekend night of aeceptahlo ridir.ulousness, and the only way I could think of to say goodbyo to my youth WIL'> with an all-out, ghetto-litbulous, Allston pub crawl. Deemed the "Spring Broke 21 +I Birthday Pub Crawl"-whore no one was allow1~d to say 22 or hnalth insurance among other torms -this WIL'> a night to top all the others of the pa<>t year. It startnd all well and good with a youthful pre-game in Allston and on to the Avenue, but things startml gntting ridkulously ridiculous with the free cocktails at Whito Ilorse. By the time the group got to T's, wnll, wo wore just about convinced it was karaok11 Ttwsday, or so it snemed. I can't say that I remember going to bml, whkh is probably because I passed out on a eoueh, and I enrtainly fi>rgot my usual pre-sleep ritual of changing into pajam<L'>, so I would say it WIL'> a suc­enssful evening. 
By tho time I wokn up Sunday morning, I was just about ready to die. Fortunately, if I was to die I still had a eoupln morn days of health insurance to make tho process lnss painful. Oh those carefree days of being 21. 
I supposo the fi1nling of death reminded me thore wnrn things worsn than turning 22, spocilkally dying. Now that I'm 22 and looking at the world through a ghL<>s half full view (when I was 21 it was a glass needs a mfill view), I suppose all in all life's pretty good. Evon though I don't havomy health insurance filr much longor, I still have my lwalth. I c:an't watch "Tho O.C.," but I can graduato and move to the O.C. I might be developing my first wrinkles but at lmL<>t injecting botu­linum toxin into my face for cosmntic reasons is now a salil and easy pmvnntion fill' aging. Maybe J'llundor­stand that one tomorrow when I'm a grown up. 
Until tlwn, otw morn day of earnfrnn youth. After that it's bridge dubs and dnnturns, so I'll be making tho most of it. 
'111is t'olumn originally appeared in the March 21 issue of'11w I )aify Free Press. the daily publication at 1/oslon l lnitwrsity. 
Tlw t>it•ws expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
A changed nation: what do we stand for now? 
Never before were President Franklin D. Hoosevelt's immortal words more applicable: "There is nothing to fear but fear itself." Since the attaeks of Sept. 11. widespread national fear has proven this nation's most crippling and non-fictitious enemy. Look at what fear has done to this country, and look at what fear has made us do. Gone are the days of defiance and idealism that characterized our nation's birth. 
Quickly we crawled back into our protectionist hole when attacked, surrendering the rights that our forefathers died defending so that our government would make us safe. Easily we accepted the words passed along by this administration as fact, not questioning. Where did democracy go? When did a person who questions become un­American'! 

How much more will we sacrifice at the alter of National Security? Already burnt are some of the very pillars of our existence. The dignity of all humans, will take a long time to gain acceptance among the world's community as a prin­ciple that America stands and lights for. Acceptance is not pos­sible as long as we detain without just eause torture and murder in cold blood of innoeent humans largely for their skin color, religion, language and associations. 
What will we not destroy in the name of our own safety'! Already we have taken what was not ours: the lives of 100,000 Iraqi civilians, none of whom asked for these Chris-tian saviors. 
What do we stand for now? 

Opportunity? Not as long as millions of immigrants, starving, weary and persecuted are annually turned away at our borders. "There is no room at the inn." 
Democracy? Not as long as government propagan­da is passed off as unbiased news. Not as long as swing votes count for more and the second plaee fin­isher assumes control. · 
Human dignity? Not as long as 43 million Americans lack health care and our administrators aim to take away the security earned by those from 
whom we inherited this country. Not as long as hundreds are put to death eaeh year in the state's name, in my name, in the name 
of every American tax-payer. Freedom? Not as long as my library records are fair game for 
intelligence officials, and pnace­ful aetivist organizations aro infiltratod by spies. Equality? Not as long as poor inner city areas and 
prisons overflow with an inordinate percentage of the minority population. 
Natural Beauty? Not as long as even our natural reserves fall vietim to our own oil-lust. 
What is America now'? Where is that sanctuary for tho tired, the weak and 

the huddled masses yearn­ing to bn free'! Wake up America and look at our country from the perspeetive 
of our children 50 years from now. Will today be remmnbered as 
the day that the greatest nation sue­cum bed to the violenee, lies and hatred brought upon us by our attaeknrs'! 
Or will this bn the day that Amnriea rises to the challenges of our times, and, armed with the same ideals that spawned this nation's greatness, combats oppression with freedom, war with pnacn and fear with hope. 
Dan Schnorr 
otl~campus 
senior 
March 21 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 


,­
TI:-·1 E OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, March 22, 2005 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'The Ring Two' m.ore juvenile, less creepy than the original 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Scene Movie Criric 

Horror films tend to fall into one of two camps. There are those in which things jump out at you and you scream, and there are those that arc more disturbingly creepy than actually scary. Gore Verbinski's 2002 movie "The Ring" fell into the latter, while its sequel, released this month, is better situated in the for­mer. 
The Ring was a remake of Hideo Nakata's 1998 film "Ringu," which was a massive success in its native Japan. "The Ring Two" is directed by Nakata, though it bears only a passing resemblance to "Ringu 2," which he made in 1999. 
Naomi Watts and David Dorfman reprise their roles from the first fum as reporter Hachel Keller and her son Aidan. They· have just moved to the sleepy town of Astoria in order to fully extricate them­selves from the events of "The Ring." Of course, it's not long before dead bodies 


By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Scene Editor 

Tommy Lee Jones has done this dance once before. Actually, make that several times. 
Playing a gruff, harsh and uptight men­tor armed with a dry wit has been a choice role over the course of his career. In the "Men in Black" series, for example, Jones' dry wit teamed with Will Smith's youthful energy added up to major change at the box office. Unfortunately, Jones's latest offering, "Man of the House," is a mediocre attempt to capital­ize on his comedic value and falls short with what could have been an intriguing concept. 
In the film, Jones plays Roland Sharp, a Texas Ranger assigned to protect the only witnesses to the murder of a key figure in the prosecution of a drug kingpin. These witnesses turn out to be five female University of Texas cheerleaders and present quite a handful for Jones. Sharp start showing up with the samP symptoms as the victims of the first film. 

Interestingly enough, "The lUng Two" only uses the first film's plot as spring­board; its narrative structure bears only a passing resemblance its predecessor. This is encouraging, since most Holly"wood sequels tend to play it safe and rehash the formula that was so successful the first timP around. The videotape, which was so key in the fust film, is almost a non-fac­conventions, "The Hing Two" tries to be a good film. It tries really hard. Nakata brings style and flair to the proceedings and Naomi Watts' ·steadfast performance evokes Ellen Burstyn's desperate mother from "The Exorcist" (although Burstyn had the good fortune to be in a much bet­ter movie). 
The most glaring offender is the screen­play, which often seems forced. There are 
a handful of good 
ideas here and 

tor here, as "The "The Ring Two" there, but none of Ring Two" concen­
them are fully real­trates more on the ized. The 1ilm tries relationship to deepen the cen­between Aidan and tral conceit of the Rachel. As expect­Director: Hideo Nakata first film, but the ed, most of the writers: Hiroshi Takahashi and Ehren script is often other characters Kruger counter-productive. arP cardboard cut­Starring: Naomi Watts, Simon Baker, David Major plot points 
outs. Simon Baker's Dorfman reporter, Max, is particularly wasted. 
YPt the film is never as creepily effective as either "Hingu" or 'The Bing" precisPly because it doesn't follow the same pattern as its forebears. It's still seary. but this is credited more to the camerawork and sound design than the actual pmmise and plot of the picture. Nakata is to be admired for departing so mw:h from the original idea, but the result is only partial­ly successful. 
The biggest problem is that "The Ring Two" gets bogged down by a terrible script and implausible events. Inane dia­logue, impossibilities and strange charac­ter behavior are trademarks of this genre and this film has them in spades. That might be what is most disappointing ­despite often falling into standard horror 
are left unex­
plained. Characters 

still go alone into dark places. Things jump out of eorners of the frame. And there is a mid-lilm attack so bizarre that it evokes laughter rather than terror. 
"The Bing Two" feels like it should be a deeper, more hauntingly disturbing expe­rience than it is, which is disheartening. At moments it seems like it's going to develop into something more, with the particularly pertinent theme of motherhood eoming across, but Nakata never fully explores this. The Hing Two is not a bad film -it is an enjoyable and sporadically scary way to spend a couple of hours, but it often feels like wasted potential. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtad@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 

No cheers for Totntny Lee Jones in 'Man of the House' 
is forced to go undercover as an assistant cheerleading coach and move in with his young wards to protect them and solve the murder. 
As if that wasn't enough to cover all the major plot points, there's still the obliga­tory feel-good effect that Jones has on the girls and vice versa. He helps them real­ize their individual potentials, whether it be to write an eloquent essay on Romeo and Juliet or be the father figure they 
never had. And, "Man of the House~~ dialogue and poor naturally, they help 
pacing. If they're him tap into his hid­not paying close den sensibilities and attention, casual break out of his viewers may even harsh shell to get Director: Stephen Herek be left scratching closer to his writers: John Mclaughlin and Scott their heads at why estranged daughter Lobdell the initial murder and impress a new starring: Tommy Lee Jones, Cedric the has an impact on love interest. Entertainer, Christina Milian, Paula Garces, Sharp's drug case. It's really not the Monica Keena, Vanessa Ferlito, Kelli Garner The stale script 
role of the gruff Sharp in this film and manages to make audiences sympathize with him. But "Man of the House" is miss­ing one of the bare essentials to a good film -a decent screenplay. The material just doesn't seem fresh or funny and this dooms any attempt Jones makes to stamp his comedic wares on audiences. 
As funny as it is to see Jones forced to have a make-over by his female charges, 
the appeal is quick­
ly lost due to poor 


cliches that kill this film. There are still some laughs to be had and the ladies cast as the bubbly cheerleaders are all easy on the eyes, particularly B&B star Christina Milian and actress Paula Garces. There are moments when the film Oashes a little SouthPrn charm. Cedric the Entertainer tosses in a chuckle or two in a supporting role as an ex-Longhorn cheerleader. 
But the laughs are few and too far between to justify watching "Man of the 1-IousP" when a comedic gem like "Hitch" is still in theatres. As it turns out, in that lattnr film, Smith outshines his "Men in Black" cohort and shows that it takes a little more to make a heart-warming com­edy than a handful of punch lines. 
Jones does an adequate job with the causes all sorts of 
problems for the film. According to the International Movie Database website, no one -east or crew -could think of an appropriate ending until director Stephen Herek came up with one months after the rest of the film was shot. Ouch. 
It seems like a long time ago, but Jones once won an Osear for Best Supporting Actor in "Fugitive," the Harrison Ford thriller.. After a dud like "Man of thn House," he might be better pressed to flex his acting muscles in another dramatic role. A role in the next Clint Eastwood­directed film probably eouldn 't hurt. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Ti.1esday, March 22, 2005 
page 13 
DVD REVIEW 
'Finding Neverland' blurs fiction and reality 
Photo courtesy of www.movieweb.com Sir James Matthew Barrie (Johnny Depp, left) creates the world of Peter Pan with Inspiration from the Davies children, Including Peter (Freddie Highmore). 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Robots' delivers sharp hun1or for all ages 

model, Bigweld (Mel Brooks), is nowhere to be found, and his replace­ment, Hatchet (Greg Kinnear), is a greedy tycoon whose evil plans will destroy poor and sick robots every­where. Rodney is joined in his quest to stop Hatchet by Fender (Hobin Williams), an eccentric Hobot City resident, 
Cappy, a Bigweld 11Robots" rablo SCilllllS and executive (llalle 
lines. An narly Berry), and scone involving numerous others Hodney and along tho way. Fondnr on a crazy Tho plot, while Director: Chris Wedge and Carlos transportation ·at times bordnring Saldanha systom drags on on ehoosy, has the writers: Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel for a bit too long, type of feel-good starring: Halle Berry, Mel Brooks, Robin but Ft~ndnr morn 
theme that one Williams, Drew Carey expects from a movie of this gonro, illustrated from the beginning by Bigwnld's slogan, "You can shine no matter what you're made of." Though it may seom overly sentimental wlwn the hero toar.'i up at a pop talk from Dad, and sonw plot twists are rather predictable, it is fitting with tho over­all atmosphoro created for the intnnd­
od audio n ~~ o and genre. Even t h n somntirnns subtln, sometimos not-so­subtle social commentary does not detract from the usually humorous tonn. 
Tho humor is clevnr enough to appeal to any ago group, at times jok­ingly n~fnrnncing other films and at other times utilizing subtle, morn mature jokes much the way tho movie "Shrek" does. Hobin Williams does not disappoint, as his quirky character provides the film's most humorous moments. True to his style, much of Hobin Williams' performance was ad­libbed. 
Even tho humor has wnak points, but they are far outnumbernd by the truly momo­
than makes up for 
it when hn per­

forms a spoof of "Singin' in thn Hain." Amanda Byrws, the voke of Fender's little sister Piper. is disappointing comparnd with tlw east's otlwr pnrformancPs, but at least tim character bogins to r('(ll~em herself by shooting plunger arrows at evil robots. 
Whother thn vinwnr is drawn hy Williams' conwdy, thn fun of an ani­matnd film, or nvnn Md;rngor's attra!~­tivn voien (with an Anwriran arrPnl 
-
sadly but nl"fnctivoly rnplar.ing his usual Scottish), "Hobol.s" providPs nindy minutns of solid PntPrtainnwnt that does not disappoint. 
Contact Adam Welder at awcltlcr@nd.cdu 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Sc<"ne Movie Critic 
At what age do p!Hlple losn tlwir inno­c~nncn'! It is undnniabln that childnm arn horn sonwthing that they slwd as ynars go hy. llownvnr, some pnopln do not snem to grow old as mnny do -some remain young and innocm1t. evm1 though thny may physically ago. "Finding Nnvorland" is a movie about such a man. 
"Finding N1wnrland," dirnetnd by Marc 1.-orstnr and starring Johnny l>epp, is a rnovin about thn London playwright Sir· .lamPs M. Barrio. For those who arn not familiar with the name, he was the cre­ator of the Peter Pan story. The movie begins with the general publk viewing Sir Barrie's latest play, which is received poorly at best. This spurs Sir Barrie to <Teate a new play, one that is good not only in the public's eye, but his own as well. 
To create the play, how1wer. he needs inspiration. One day in the park, Sir Barrie meets the Davins family, widower Sylvia Llewelyn Davies and her four sons. Within them Sir Barrie finds inspiration, and ernates a play basml upon the family and their imaginary adventures. Some drama ensues, but nothing that detracts 


By MARY MIGLIOZZI 
Seen<" Movie Critic 
"Hobots," directed by Chris Wedge, is every hit as enjoyable as its comput­er animation and celobrity-hoavy cast mako it appear. Clevor dialogue and characters as woll as humorous voiee acting, especially by Hobin Williams, 
make "Robots" as fun for a college audience as it is for its intended younger audience. 
Ewlln McGregor voices Hodney Copporbottom, the son of a dishwash­ing machine. Hodnoy grows up dream­ing of being an inventor, and u.s a young man travels to Hobot City to get a job at Bigwold Industries. However, he quickly discovers that his role from the fantasy nature of the film. 

To bring up an earlier point, Sir Barrie is the man with the child-like innoconce. lie plays with the four children as if he were one of them. Even more, he drives most of the games and leads them into what later becomes Peter Pan scenarios. Sir Barrio brings some joy into the chil­dren's lives. 
B u t 
things 
Finding

don't go 
t 0 0 
Neverland 

smoothly 
for Sir 
Barrie. 
Miramax 

Bneause hn spends much of his days· with thn widow and her family, his own wife feels neglectnd, and evnn c.lwated on. But evPn worse, thorn is a rumor going around as to why lw spnnds so much time with thn little boys. Thny lack a fathor, and Sir Barrio slowly moves towards that role, but this is not seen by the people around them. 

Whieh loads to tho one r·fml complaint with t.hn film, whkh is it never truly feels like tho characters lnavn tho fantasy. Thn Michael .fackson-esque rumors wore rebutted by Sir Barrie, and never rnally became much of an issue. The issues that did bncomo serious never felt too integral to the plot. The focus of the movie was always solely on Sir Barrie and tho family, with all the other charaeters being of snc­ondary concern. 
The ending, although bitterswnet, dons­n't quito have tho emotional punch that one would expect. Given the nature of tho film. and how it likes to blur the linns bntwnfm rnality and fietion, tho ending didn't quitn have tho emotional pull that. similar movies had. 
llowover, this is not due to a lack of act­ing ability. Dnpp once again turns in a fan­tastie performance as tho London play­wright. lin oven nails the accent, a trick that causes many actors to stumhln. Kate Winslnt also doos a dncnntjoh in hnr redo as Miss Sylvia LIn w n I"y n l>avins. All of the rhil­drnn worn hnlinvabln. to say thn lt~asL A lot 
of movins trip up a littln wlwn portraying childrPn, but "1.-inding Ncwnrland" donsn 't havn this problmn. 
Tlw I>VD itsnlf was dneent. Video and sound worn both of modnratl' quality. No serious issuns arosn from nit.her orw. Tlw spndal fnaturns wnrn good, but not vnry long. Thoro is a ~~ornnwntary, a spndal making-of, a feature callml "Thn Magie of Finding Nnvnrland," one callml "Creating Nevnrland," some deleted scerws. and somn outtakns. It's the usual stu!T, with nothing of any mal notkn. 
Was "Finding Nevnrland" worth sewn Oscar nods'? Perhaps, but for some it was not. It's a light, fun rnovin that rwver n~ally dnlvns into the darkness that is implied. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.cdu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 22, 2005 
WOMEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
Michigan State survives early scare against California 
Bulldogs oust Longhorns; Washington.sends Mississippi packing; Tennessee breezes past Western California 

Associated Press players dove all over the floor step in first-year coach Mark too late. Texas leaned on 1982. trying to get the ball. Haynes, a Trakh's effort to return the pro­Jackson in the second half, when And this is the most appropri­
MINNEAPOLIS -Rene Haynes 5-foot-10 sophomore, finally gram to national prominence. the sophomore scored 18 of her ate time of year for Summitt, saved top-seeded Michigan State came up with it to the left of the USC made the NCAA tournament points and had nine of her 10 who tops all women's coaches from an embarrassingly early lane, took a step and made the for the first time since 1997 and rebounds. with an 86-17 NCAA tourna­exit from the NCAA tournament. basket. won 20 games for the first time But always there to answer at ment-record. 
Haynes came out of a wild Southern Cal wasn't able to get since that season. the other end was Humphrey, The Lady Vols and, in particu­scramble with the ball and made off a final shot and Michigan And tlie Trojans went out who the Longhorns couldn't con­lar, Shanna Zolman made it a layup with 2.9 seconds left, giv­State moved on, despite going knowing they took one of the trol for the. second time this sea­easy for Summitf to get the vic­ing Michigan State a 61-59 victo­more than 5 minutes without nation's top programs to the fmal son. The 6-foot-3 freshman tory. ry over eighth-seeded Southern scoring in the second half. buzzer. They frustrated Michigan scored 27 points in her first Western Carolina (18-14), the California in a second-round USC got a big game from fresh­State with a zone defense, dis­meeting with Texas. No. 16 seed in the Philadelphia game Monday night. man Camille LeNoir, who scored rupted passes with their quick Tennessee 94, Regional, was undersized and 
It was a scary game for the nine quick points at the start of hands, matched the Spartans' Western Carolina 43 outmatched from the beginning. Spartans (30-3), who were out­the second half to get the Trojans physical play and consistently Pat Summitt thanked her Catamounts •coach Kellie hustled and outrebounded by back in it after they trailed by as beat them to the ball. team for helping her tie the Harper. a point guard on their young, scrappy opponent. many as six in the first half and Georgia 70, Texas 68 NCAA Division I victory record Tennessee's three straight titles But they survived and will take a finished with a career-high 18. Georgia started the season before getting down to what from 1996-98, could only watch 14-game winning streak into the Kim Gipson added 14 for the casting doubt on Texas' title really matters to her. her team fall behind big early. semifinals of the Kansas City Trojans, who outrebounded hopes. Tennessee's victory over Washington 60, Mississippi 57 Regional on Sunday against the Michigan State 36-31, and Now the Bulldogs have con­Western Carolina on Sunday Jessica Simmonds scored 14 winner of Monday's late game Eshaya Murphy scored 14. firmed it, knocking third-seeded night in the first round of the points Sunday night to help between Kansas State and Liz Shimek had 14 for Texas out of the NCAA tourna­NCAA tournament was win No. George Washington rally from a Vanderbilt. Michigan State, which couldn't ment with a victory in the second 879 for Summitt, tying her with 14-point second-half deficit to 
Lindsay Bowen led Michigan hold a six-point lead midway round Monday night. former North Carolina men's beat Mississippi in the first State with 19 points, including through the second half, and Tasha Humphrey scored 26 coach Dean Smith for the most round of the NCAA tournament. four huge 3-pointers in the sec­Kristin Haynie scored 12. points and Cori Chambers had victories in Division I history. Anna Montanana added 13 ond half. Her final 3 gave the USC had support from many of 15 to lead sixth-seeded Georgia Summitt, however, is focused points and came up big in the Spartans a 59-56 lead with 37.3 the Minnesota fans who arrived to its second victory of the season on advancing in the tournament. ' final 2 minutes for the ninth­seconds to play, but USC (20-11) early for the night's second game over Texas. Georgia advanced to After the victory, the Lady Vols seeded Colonials (23-8), who tied it on freshman Brynn between the Gophers and the round of 16 for the third asked their coach if she was advanced to face host North Cameron's long 3 with 21.7 sec­Virginia. What the Trojans need­straight year and the 15th time excited about trying to break Carolina on Tuesday in the onds remaining. ed, however, those fans couldn't in 21 appearances. Smith's record in the second Tempe Regional. 
The Spartans then got the ball provide: just one more basket. In doing so, the Bulldogs round. Elizabeth Cansdale scored 13 
inside, the shot was blocked and Still, the season was a positive denied Texas -a preseason "I said, 'Yes, I want your points to lead the eighth-seeded Final Four favorite -entrance help,"' Summitt said. "I want to Lady Rebels (19-11 ), who scored into the tournament's third get this over with only because just two points in the final 10 round for the first time in four we will be going to Philadelphia 1/2 minutes to lose in the first years. and we all want to go to round for the second straight 
Georgia will face the winner of Philadelphia." year. Tuesday night's Duke-Boston Top-seeded Tennessee (27 -4) Mississippi led 55-41 on a College game on Saturday in the will face Purdue in the second score from Carletta Brown, but Chattanooga Regional semifi­round Tuesday night, with the the Colonials clawed their way nals. winner advancing to the region­back into the game with 17 
Texas' Heather Schreiber al semifinals in Philadelphia. straight points over the next six tried to win the game with a 3-Summitt is 879-171, while minutes. George Washington pointer at the buzzer but the Smith was 879-254 in 36 years eventually pushed ahead 56-55 shot hit the corner of rim. with the Tar Heels. on two free throws from 
At the start of the season, the Summitt has been at the top of Amanda Locascio with 2:13 left. Longhorns were ranked No. 2 in the women's game for years That's when Montanana made the country before playing at with six national titles and 15 two key plays. First she hit a Georgia their second game. The Final Four appearances. turnaround jumper in the lane Bulldogs, then ranked No. 5, "I have so much respect and to increase the margin to 58-55 rallied from a 15-point deficit to admiration for Coach Smith. with 1:39 left. win 78-64. This is more than just a num­Then, after Ellen Buchanan 
But there was no need for a ber," Summitt said immediately scored on a putback to make it Georgia comeback this time. after the game. 58-57, Montanana hit two free The Bulldogs (24-9) led for the "The Lady Vols that have throws with 9. 7 seconds left to entire game, holding off a Texas played here have been really push the margin back to three. rally in the final 4 minutes to special. You think about all of Ole Miss had a chance to tie it, hand the Longhorns their earli­them, they made it happen. It but Brown's desperation 3­est tournament exit since falling says that we've had some of the pointer just before the horn in the first round in 2001. best players in the history of the missed everything to seal the 
Tiffany Jackson tied her game. They're part of my family Lady Rebels' collapse. career high with 30 points, but and my life and for that I say Mississippi is in its 16th tour­her game-tying attempt with 12 thank you to all of them." nament and has four regional seconds remaining was blocked Fittingly, Summitt tied Smith final appearances, but the Lady by Georgia's Rebecca Rowsey. on Tennessee's ·home court at Rebels have not won in the 
Moments earlier, Schreiber hit Thompson-Boling Arena, where NCAAs since taking an 83-61 a 3-pointer with 1:26 left to the Lady Vols are 252-14 since it first-round win against Indiana 
AP bring Texas (22-9) within two, opened in 1987. Tennessee has in 1994. Ole Miss lost in the first Georgia coach Andy Landers holds player Alexis Kendrick part of 15-4 run after Texas had never lost an NCAA game in round in each of the next two around the neck as he protests a foul call to the referee during trailed by 10. Knoxville, going 45-0 since the years, then missed the tourna­the second half of their second-round game in Dallas Monday. But the Longhorns' rally came women's tournament began in ment for eight straight years. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Who wants to date Molly?  
NOTICES  FoR SALE  2-3 bdrm houses avail. now and 05­06. Close to ND. Call276-2333. Omni Properties  Two story house completely remod­eled 2003. Ready lor 2005-06 school year. Off street parking  PERSONAL  KP, you owe me a cuddle and some Taco Bell.  
OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE. 4  includes motion sensor light for  
Get paid to think. Make $75 taking  rm, 2 bath. For details  security. Four individually locked  Typist/Transcriptionist for Faculty &  She was here the whole time.  
on-line surveys. www.moneyau­ fimbel.1 @nd.edu or 574-261-0900.  Close to ND Excellent area. 19237  bedrooms. six blocks from Notre  Students. Professional results. Call  
thor.com  Cleveland,6-7bdrm; 202 E. Cripe  Dame. bus stop in front of house.  Lori {574)291-9945.  What is a co-lo-nel?  
96 BMW 328i, white w/gray leather,  4bdrm; 222 E. Willow 3bdrm.  surrounded by other student hous­ ... Glad you're teaching third grade  
automatic. sun roof, heated seats,  2773097  ing. Laundromat next door  Ann is short and Iunny.  
WANTED  136k, great car! Under blue book at $6300. 607-6680.  2.4 & 5 B-Rooms,close to campus.  (drycleaning also),basement avail­able for storage of bicycles, lug­ Saint Patrick's Day is not about  Great article, even though you did­n't tell me it was in the paper  
call 234-9923, ask for Rod.  gage, trunks, etc., new furnace and  decorations and cookies (see  
- Catholic family offering full time summer childcare opportunity; 4 children ages 6 to 12; Scottsdale Mall area; 7:30am to 4:30  FoR RENT 6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK  Room lor rent. Very nice apt.com­plex 10 min. from campus.$350/mo. (517)97 4-6225.  central air. new kitchen including new stove and refrigerator. large liv­ing room for TV or entertaining, free trash removal. Call 289-4071. 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING  above). Happy birthday to all those born on this day. May your day be filled with joy and calories.  H-Town loves her diaries of mad women. She's definitely a blob... NOT a C monster  
pm;wages negotiable; non smoker;  FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER  HOUSE FOR RI;NT: 05-06 year. 3­ DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708  
own transportation needed. Call  MONTH + DEP. STAFF AND FAC­ 5 bdrms. Close to ND. Indoor  S.B. AVE-605 ST. PETER CALL  Steve and Chris, there is light at the  PACKAGE  
Maureen 360-1738.  ULTY ONLY. CALL BRUCE 876­ Basketball Court. 272-3126 or 273­ 532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM  end of the tunnel and brownies at  
3537.  9473.  the end of the table.  Dance. you crazy fool. Dance!  

'. 

.-----------------------------------~---------------------------------------­
Tuesday, March 22, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 
Colts find stadiulll finance plan 
lion a year li1r the stadium.  "This is a broad  bn a tax, it ought to be a regional  
"This is a broad­based way to pay for this," Kenley  based way to pay for this."  tax," Peterson said. Kenley's plan  
said.  also indudes a $5  
But Indianapolis  Luke Kenley  million  annual  
Mayor  Bart  Senate Tax  payment  from  
l'etnr·soH said the tax would drive  Committee Chairman  the Colts, a $1 stadium admis­ 
business out of the  sion  tax  on  all  

city, and that other surrounding events at the nnw venue and a 1 rountins would also rwed to pay pnrcnnt inernasn on income tax the tax fi1r it to work. for profi1ssional athlntns at the 
Serviens arn not taxed under stadium. liHi state's current sales tax. l'ntnrson said asking the Colts Tlw proposed tax would all'eet for morn money would change largo servkn providers liko law tho dnal tho dty struck with the Jirrns, 1mginenring and arehitne­tnam. lie said it would bn nearly tural businesses and financial impossible to renegotiate anoth­mmpanins. It would also add to er agremnnnt by the time the tho price of smaller transactions Gennral Assembly is schndulod 
On CAmpus QrA.tuAtion l1/Jeeken.t ~peciAl tl!}A!J 12-16, 200f 
Neect "-plC!ce for t)Our f&~Mtltj to stC!tj, TYtj tVIe s&~uect t-te&~rt 'PC!rtsV! CeVIA:er ['B.uLL~t~ 31.. Ol" 1..1..f?S O"'-tJOUI" c&~mpus m&~ps.] 
we set " t:Jo.oo -per -persoll\-cto!M'!tl.oll\-for tV!e 
wee~t<.ell\.d. 
"COM6 6AR.LY [TV!ursct&~tj] -STAY LAll [Mo11\.d &! tJ] " ~ SCI Me c;{011\-&!tf..oll\-. 
Fo..-reserv&~HoV\S -plelilse c&~ll: 'PC!uL ~ct~tl &~t .s:T-f-G3:1..-.TS1..~ or 

M&! Ytj Fo~-~~-lw-.:~.~~--G~~~.:~~ .............. __ ,_.l 
What;s the Future of this Relationship? 
Please join us for an afternoon of reflection and discussion-designed for dating couples who are discerning the next stage of a relationship commitment. 
What's next for our relationship after graduation? What are some challenges involved in long distance dating? Wha~s involved in making a healthy decisions about a relationship? 

Applications are available in 114 Coleman-Morse Center or 319 Coleman-Morse at the Reception Desk 
C-M 

Questions: call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163 
to adjourn at tho end of' April. 

"If' we had to start over, thnro'd be a. rna) risk of' losing the tnam," Peterson said. 
Kenley is working with a group or represnntativns from the Colts, the city, the Indiana llousn and tho governor's office to eonw up with a funding plan. 
"There's plenty of' room to work," Kenley said. 
Although Pnterson did not like the details of Kenley's plan, he pointnd out that it includes monny filr both the stadium and the convention center expan­sion. 
"That's a hugo step f'orward and a major sign of progrnss," Petnrson said. 
The stadium is projnetnd to cost between $550 million and $700 million, and with the plannnd expansion of the neigh­boring Indiana Convnntion Centnr, the total project could reach $990 million. 
Several bills to finance the projeet have died in the first half of the legislativn session, including plans to increases taxes and put slot machines at horse racing tracks. 
Kenley said such gambling options were out becausn thny would have a dillkult time win­ning approval in tho Legislature. 
page 15 

WOMEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Su:nunitt goes for ho:me record in tourna:ment 
Coach looks to set all­time mark for most collegiate victories 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tnnn. -Pat Summitt is on tho ver·gn of becoming the winningest bas­ketball coach in NCAA history. 
Two years al'ter setting the record for most wins by a women's coach, Summitt tied Dean Smith's record ol' 879 vie­tories Sunday night when Tennessee beat Western Carolina 94-43 in the first round of the NCAA tournamnnt. 
She can break tho record Tuesday night in the second round. Top-seeded Tennessee (27-4) hosts Purdue. In tho othnr game Tuesday, LSU plays Arizona. 
Summitt hasn't benn fond of the attention focusnd on the record chase while her team tries to makn a run for a sev­enth national title, and she cer­tainly isn't preoccupied with proving the list of all-time vk­tm:ies should ineludn men's and women's coaches. 
"It's been suggestnd there will be a lot of people that will not respect it or recognize it as being women in comparison to men. That doesn't bother me. It's just the way the numbers add up, and the two were com­bined," Summitt said Monday. "Obviously I think it in some regard is more significant and more meaningful when it includes both the men's and women's game." 
Summitt's record stands at 879-171, while Smith was 879­254 in 36 years at North Carolina. He retired in 1997. 
Summitt passed Texas' Jody Conradt on the women's list early in the 2002-03 season. 
Summitt spoke to Smith last week and he encouraged her to go for the record. 
"lie left me a message because we had played phone tag and he just said, 'Good luek going for the number. I can't remember what tho numbnr is 
exactly,"' shn said. "Wiwn I 
called him b;u:k I said, 'I ran't 
eillwr."' 
Purdue's Kristy Curry could end up being part history as tlw coach on thn losing nnd of No. 880 -or hnr team could put off the rncord brnak ing u n ti I nnxt season. 
"To a certain dngrnn in my heart I have to be pulling for hnr a little bit tomorrow night. That's human nature," shn said. 
"I just respect and admirn hnr as a mom, as a baskntball coach, her intensity and pas­sion. It's somnthing that we all ­as young eoachns aspire to lw like and hopn wn can have just a little bit of the impact sho's had on the gamn." 
All four teams playing Tuesday night have the samn goal -advaneing to tlw regional somif'inal. The LSU­Arizona winner gons to Chattanooga whiln tho Tennnssee-Purdun winnnr gons to Philadelphia. 
Ninth-snndnd Purdun ( 17 -12) got past Nnw Mnxko h8-5(l in tho first round and has bnen t.o the regional semif'inals sovnn times, including tho last two seasons. 
LSU C~0-2), tho tournamnnt's ovnrall No. 1 seed, is trying to cap the most successful season in school history by making a second straight run to the Final Four. The Lady Tigers have reached the n~gional level eight times. 
If the Wildcats (20-11) win, they would be making only their second appearance at a regional. They made it to the final 16 in 1998. 
Summitt took over the women's basketball team at age 22 and has been at Tennessee the last 31 years. At the time, there were no seholarships for players, and she posted signs around campus calling for stu­dents to try out for the team. 
Summitt recalled speaking to civic groups with six to 12 pno­ple in the audience. Today, Lady Vols games draw thou­sands of fans, who have helped build a hugn homneourt advan­tage for T!~nrwssee. Partly as a result, the Lady Vols are 45-0 in NCAA tournament ganws play1~d at homn. 
Arizona eoaeh Joan Bonvidni bnlinvns Knoxvilln is tho ideal plaee for Summitt to gnt tho record. 
"This is a great si tn -tlw cnntnr of wonwn 's baskntball. And I think it's grnat for Pat Summitt to probably break this rneord," Bonvkini said. "I think it's grnat for hnr to do it in tlw NCAA tournanwnt. whnn it's such a big stage and (t.ol have tlw o p portun ity to do it at honw." 
Thompson-Boling ArnmL and Knoxville havn hosted morn NCAA tournament. gamns than any othnr vnntrn or eity. Counting tho four first-round ganws on Sunday, thnre havn b<wn 52 ganws in tlw an~na, which opnrwd in IIJS7, and ()7 gamns in Knoxville. 
"l>o I think that our fans arn going to be the reason that we hopefully win tomorrow night? No. I think t.hat Purdue is going to come out and play their game, and l.lwy'rn going to bn even mon~ inspirnd hncausn they are on the road," Summitt. said. 
Assodatcd Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-A I pnrcnnt tax on most snrvin~s in Marion County would hnlp pay for a new stadium fi1r the Colts under a funding plan announcnd Monday by a leading state sena­tor. 
Senate Tax Committee Chairman I.ukn Kenley, H­Noblnsville, said the tax he pro­poses on all Marion County serviens except rnedkal and construction work would bring in about $3S mil-
such as car repairs and hair­cuts. 
II' Kenley's proposal passes tho c;eneral Assembly, the tax would bocomn an option for Marion County. The Indianapolis City-County Council would have to vote to incrnasn tho tax for it to takn nfl'net. 
Peterson said hn would fight the tax as proposed because snrviee providnrs could move across tho Marion County linn to avoid it. 
"If lhern has to 


-~---~-~--------~----~ 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 22, 2005 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 




Liberty seeks encore; Buckeyes prepare for road gatne 
Associated Press The Flames will face No. 5 winner of the Arizona-Louisiana 
seed DePaul (26-4), which State game. 

COLLE(~E PAHK. Md. ~The squeezed past 12th-seed Eighth-ranked Ohio State (29­final buzzer had just sounded, Virginia Tech 79-78 in the open­4) and Maryland (22-9) are sup­and the Liberty women's basket­ing round. The other second­posedly playing on a neutral ball team was celebrating the round game Tuesday night will court. But the Buckeyes know most significant victory in the match No. 2 seed Ohio State that the majority <;>f the fans will history of the program when against seventh-seeded be backing the Terps, who are eoach Carey Green got a call on Maryland. 13-3 this season at his cell phone. DePaul coach the Comcast 
The voice on the other end Doug Bruno Center. was that of the school chancel­expects the fans "I know all our "It's just going to lor, the Hev. Jerry Falwell, who at the Comcast be another road
fans and families

had watched on television the Center to be game for us," said 
are very excited. " 

13th-seeded Flames defeat Penn pulling for the Ohio State center State on Sunday night in one of underdog Flames, Jessica Davenport, the biggest upsets in NCAA tour­and he can't really Krista! Tharp one of four finalists nament history. blame them. for the 2005
Liberty guard 

"He was elated." (;reen said "Liberty is a Naismith Trophy, Monday. "That was the first per­very special story which honors the son I talked to, Dr. Falwell. Then in this NCAA tour-player of the year after that. George W. Bush nament,." he said. "I was in women's basketball. called." impressed by their fearlessness The crowd should be a factor, 
No, the President of the United as much as their talent." but Buckeyes coach Jim Foster States didn't actually congratu­Facing a Penn State team that hopes that will· be the only late the Flames on their first was striving for a third straight advantage the Terrapins derive NCAA tournament victory in appearance in the Sweet 16, from playing at home. In nine tries. But by the time he Liberty dominated the second Maryland's opening-round 65-55 woke up Monday morning, half and pulled away to a 78-70 vietory over Wisconsin-Green Green found the message box on victory. Katie Feenstra led the Bay, the "visiting" Phoenix was his cell phone way with 22 points called for a season-high 21 fouls. tilled to capacity. and 11 rebounds, "I would hope that we're past 
"There was a lot and Rima the point of referees being intim­
"It's just going to
of excitement." Margeviciute had idated by where they are," said
be another road AP
Green said. 'That 18 points and 12 Foster, who has more on his was a monumen­game for us. " rebounds for the mind than the ramifications of tal win for us. It Big South champi­playing on Maryland's court. was the greatest ons. "At this time of year, I spend 

Jessica Davenport
victory in our bas­"I know all our absolutely no time thinking of Holy Cross, and Langhorne the Sweet 16 for the first time ketball history." Ohio State center fans and families about where the heck we are," pierced UW-Green Bay with 16 since 1993. Liberty (25-6) are very excited," he said. "It's just wasted ener­points and 10 rebounds. Maryland hasn't gone that far 
become only the said guard Krista! gy." "I have a very physical game, in 13 seasons. fourth 13th seed to defeat a No. Tharp, who scored 15 points. The matchup between the 6-and she's a physical player," "Obviously it would mean a lot, 4 seed. For an encore, the "We in our hearts knew that we foot-4 Davenport and 6-3 center Davenport said. 'Til just try to with this young group, to contin­Flames on Tuesday night will could do it; and I think we Crystal Langhorne will likely be take away what she's good at." ue to progress," said Marylandseek to become the first No. 13 shocked a lot of our friends back more of a factor than the fans in The winner advances to coach Brenda Frese, whose seed to win in the second round. home." the stands. Davenport had 23 Philadelphia to face the winner team has won games in succes­a feat previously performed only The winner advances to the points and 11 rebounds in the of the Temple-Rutgers game. sive NCAA tournaments for the by Texas A&M in 1994. Chattanooga Regional to face the Buckeyes' 86-45 first-round rout Ohio State is striving to reach first time since 1989 and 1990. 
Penn State's Tanisha Wright, right, runs into liberty's Katie Feenstra during the first half of their first-round NCAA tournament. 

Panthers put UW-Milvvaukee on the n1ap in tournan1ent 

Associated Press 

MILWAUKEE -Before last weekend, Wisconsin-Milwaukee was best known for being the school where the late Israeli prime minister Golda Meir went. 
For "Happy Days" aficiona­dos, it's where Richie Cunningham, Potsie Weber and Ralph Malph all hit the books when they weren't hanging out at Arnold's Drive-in. 
Now, the No. 12 Panthers are the lowest seed remaining in the NCAA tournament, holding the banner for all the mid-majors who dream of knocking off the big basketball schools like Alabama and Boston College, both of which fell to Bruce Pearl's pressing Panthers, champions of the Horizon League, last week in Cleveland. 
UWM is a commuter school of 25,000 that has gone from NAIA Division II to NCAA Division I in a little more than a decade. 
When athletic director Bud Haidet was hired in 1988, he counted 65 fans at his first bas­ketball game and many of them mistakenly handed back the pom-pons he gave them on their way into the arena. 
Now, UWM is taking some of ' the spotlight off Marquette, just 6 miles away, which went to the Final Four two years ago, and the University of Wisconsin in Madison, where the Badgers; under former Panthers coach Bo Ryan, are also in the Round of 16. 
There wasn't a lot of buzz on campus Monday, however, because spring break just start­ed. 
"We only have one dormitory but I still feel the support, I've gotten lots of e-mails," guard Ed McCants said. 
About 50 people, mostly friends and family, greeted the Panthers at Mitchell International Airport upon their triumphant return Sunday. 
On Monday, players entering the Klotsche Center to practice weren't met by a throng of fans but by two men seeking auto­graphs on four deflated basket­balls, items that might very well end up on eBay. 
"It's quieter than usual today except for you guys," forward Adrian Tigert said ·of the 50 or so reporters who converged on the campus. 
Some students did gather at the campus bookstore to buy commemorative T-shirts, among them Nicole Dzomba of Milwaukee. 
"It's real exciting, it's very cool," she said as she picked out a yellow T-shirt. "I think everyone's happy but nervous; too." 
Other students raced to the ticket office to put their names in for the 1,250 tickets made available to the school for the Panthers' next game, against top-ranked Illinois on Thursday in the Chicago Regional. 
Pearl hoped the biggest crowd of reporters to gather at one of his practices would ask about the David vs. Goliath story line. He wanted to rave about his stars, McCants and Joah Tucker. He preferred to talk about how no No. 12 seed has ever beaten a No. 1 seed. 
"We're trying to do something that's never been done. We're trying to make history," he said. 
He even pitched a story about Illinois coach and Milwaukee native Bruce Weber playing his alma mater, where he unsuc­cessfully tried out for the UWM basketball team. 
But what just about everyone wanted to know was Pearl's lat­est thoughts on the Deon Thomas scandal at Illinois 16 years ago. 
Pearl was an assistant at Iowa when he secretly taped a conversation with Thomas dur­ing which the player appeared to confirm that Jimmy Collins, then an assistant at Illinois, had offered him $80,000 and an SUV to sign with the Illini. 
Thomas has always denied the allegations and the school was cleared of them, but the 16-month investigation found several other infractions and Illinois was barred from post­season play by the NCAA in 1991. 
ESPN's Dick Vitale criticized Pearl for committing "career suicide." 
To this day, Collins, now the coach at Illinois-Chicago, refus­es to shake Pearl's hand. 
But Pearl said he would do what he did again. 


Tuesday, March 22, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Schilling pitches in the minor leagues 
Assnciarcd Press 
1-'<li!T MYimS, Fla. -Curt Schilling mad1~ his first game appnarancn of thn :.,pring Monday, allowing two runs and thrnn hits ovnr throe innings against a tnam of lloston lind Sox minor l1~a-. guPrs. 
Schilling, rnr.ovnring from ankln surgnry. aln~ady knows hn won't h1~ rnady for the opnnnr at thn Nnw York YankPns on April :J. 
"Today, to nw. was a vt~ry big day," lw said. "I gunss yo u r o u I d r a II i t a b rr~ a k­through day. in a sonsn. l·:vPrything that I was hoping kind of would happnn hap­pPrwd from a physical stand­point. I fnPI likn I throw tho hall lwttnr than l'vn thrown it all spring." 
ManagPr Tnrry Franrona has sai d I> a v i d W1d I s w i II start opPning day and Boston ran gd by without a fifth startnr until April I X. Schilling, who undnrwnnt rig h t an k ~~~ s u r g n r y Ias t NovPmiJPr, said it was too Party to trdl whPlhnr lw'd lwgin thn snason on tlw dis­ablnd list. 
''l'vl~ known for a coupl11 or w1~nks now that it just wasn't going to work out" for him to pitch on opening day, ho said. 
TIH• only otlwr major lea­gum·s in Monday's game worn .Jason Varill~k. who caught Schilling, and third basoman Bill Mtwllor. who had minor knnn surg1~ry and wanted nxtm at-bats. Tho othnr play­nrs camn from Boston's 
minor league camp. 
Schilling throw 25 of 37 pitchns for strikPs and allowed doubles by Munllnr and Davn Bnrg and a two-run homer by Chip Ambrns. Schilling's l'irst pitch to nino or tho 12 batters was a strikn and hn struck out thnH~ whiln walking noiW. 
"I 1'1~d vnry good about it," ho said. 
Schilling said his surgery wits morn nxtPnsivn than he anticipated and involvnd four soparat1~ operations. 
lin said a bonn bruise that b0 t lw r p d h i Ill Ill 0 s t 0 r t h e season was more severn than oxpndc~d. And he rnvealed that thn disloeatnd tnndon which had bonn slipping out or place sustained a 6-inch tear during (iamn 6 or tlw AL championship series against tlw Yankees. 
lin pitchnd with tlw injury i n <;am 1i 2 or t h n Wor I d Snrins against St. Louis. 
"Tiw tendon stoppml dislo­cating lweauso it had split in hall' and wndged itself over tlw borw," Schilling said. "So it wasn't dislocating as much. which was actually a good thing." 
Before those two ganws, a unique procedure was dono to stitch tho tendon to the skin so it would stay in place. 
Schilling's rocovery afToctnd his normal offseason prepa­rations for spring training and knpt him out or games until Monday. 
Muellnr said Schilling's ball had "a lot or life" in tho third when he doubled. 


Re/il•e tlte Rel'olution, Re1•ive the Spirit! 
----......_................-.......... 
How the Afedia Told the Story ofPopeJohn and the Council 

Kenneth Woodward Contributing Editor at Newsweek 
Wednesday, March 30, 2005, 7:30 p.m. Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall Saint Mary's College Campus Free and open to the public 
A lertuiv c:o-spoi/sort:d bythe CciJlcr for .Sj~irituality ;wd d1c Deparuncn/ ofCommunica.liorJ Studic.s, Dance, and 1JJeatre 
NBA 

Duncan placed on injured list 
Associated Press SAN ANTONIO Tim Duncan will be sidelined at least two weeks because or a sprained right ankle and could, miss the rest of the regular sea­son. Tho San Antonio Spurs placed the two-time MVP on tho injurod list Monday follow­ing an MHI exam. lin rtew homo to San Antonio on Sunday to begin tn~atnwnt whiln thn rnst of' the team wont to New York for Monday night's game against thn K.nieks. Tho Spurs activated f'orward­cnntc~r Soan Marks from thn injured list to takn Duncan's roster slot. Hobert Ilorry start­ed in Duncan's plaen against tho Knicks. Duncan -the Spurs' leading scorer, reiHHIIHlnr and shot bloeknr -crumpled to tho lloor in tho opening minutns or a 110-101 loss to Detroit on Sunday after scoring inside and coming down on Hashned Wallace's foot. Artnr the land­ing, Duncan's ankle turned in a gnwsomo fashion. · Tho 7-l'ootor missed two garnns narlinr this month with a sprained right ankle. "It's the same ankle he hurt previously, and hfl really did a number on this one," coach Cregg Popovich said. "It's not broken, but lw can't walk on it or anything right now. Two wonk minimum, I'm surn." San Antonio (50-16), the Western Conference lfladnr. has 16 morn games over the next 30 days before thn playoff's start. The Spurs elinched a playoff spot last wnek and arc contnnding with Miami and Phoenix for home-eourt advan­tage throughout the postsoa-
AP 

San Antonio's Tim Duncan Is helped off the court by Tony Massenburg, left, after turning his right ankle on Sunday. 
son. ankle's not n~ady and he's not 
"If he's ready to play, we'll able." play him. If he isn't, we won't," Duncan entered Sunday's Popovich said. "lie won't allow game averaging 21.2 points, me to let him sit thPre if lw's 11.5 rebounds and nearly thnw healthy and ready to go. If he blocks in h2 ganws. doflsn't play any morn regular The Spurs went 1-:~ without season games, it'll bneausn his him narlim· this season. 
NFL 



Cardinals to host 49ers in Mexico 
Associated Press 
KAPALUA, llawaii -Tlw NFL will play its first mgular-snason gamn outside the United States on Oct. 2 when the Arizona Cardinals play the San Francisco 49flrs in Mexieo City. 
The loagun confirmed tho matchup Monday at the annual meetings. ESPN will tPlevisn the Sunday night game from Azteca Stadium. Arizona will he tho horne team. 
"Mexko is the country with thn most NFL fans outsido of t.lw· United States," commissioner Paul Tagliabuo said. "Our fans in Mexico are knowledgeable and passionate and they arn ready for this next step. They have sup­ported our American Bowl games in record numbers and NFL programming has been part of television in Mexieo for many decadfls. 
"The Cardinals and 49ers play in markets with large llispanie communities, inducting many people or Mexican descflnt. This game will generate new flXcitn­ment both in Mexico and in llispanie communities through­out the United States, and it promises to beeomo a milestone in the NFL's history as a global sport." 
Arizona was an obvious choke to switch a homo game to Moxim b(~eause t.hn Cardinals ran~ly sdl out Sun Devil Stadium. Tlwy can nxpnet a crowd or more than I00,000 at Aztnea· Stadium for thn gamo against. tlw 49nrs. 
On Aug. 15, 1994, t.lw Iargnst crowd in NFI. history, 112.:~7(,, saw a prnsnason ganw bdwi~Pn the Dallas Cowboys and llouston Oilers in Mexieo City. Of 1:oursP, the Cowboys arP t.lw most popu­lar tnam in Mexico. 
AztPea Stadium also has hPen thn site of two World Cup final gamns and tlw U.S. S()(:enr team will play a World Cup qualifier there against Mnxieo on Sunday. 
"The Cardinals an~ honore-d to have been selndPd for this his­toric and unprncPdnntPd ganw," said Miduwl Bidwill, the team's vien president. and gnneral coun­snl and son or owrwr Bill Bidwill. "When wn lnarnnd Iii' the league's intnrnst in staging an international regular-season game we felt the Cardinals would bn a natural fit this snason for a number of rnasons. Cultivating the llispanie fan base has been a long-standing priori­ty, and our final snason at Sun Devil Stadium certainly provides the optimal timing to host tho gamn this season. 


OUND THE NATION • 
page 18 CoMP! LED FROA-1 THE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, March 22, 2005 
Baseball America College Top25 
team  record  previous  
1  Cal State Fullerton  16-4  2  
2  Tulane  19·3  3  
3  Louisiana State  17·4  5  
4  Texas  21-4  1  
5  Georgia Tech  19·2  10  
6  Miami  20-5  7  
7  Mississippi  17-4  14  
8  Arkansas  18-2  15  
9  South Carolina  17-3  4  
10  Baylor  15-7  16  
11  Florida  16·6  6  
12  Stanford  12·7  12  
13  Arizona  16·9  9  
14  TexasA&M  17-7  8  
15  Rice  15·8  11  
16  North Carolina  15·5  13  
17  Florida State  24·4  20  
18  Oregon State  16·3  22  
19  College of Charleston  16·4  18  
20  Nebraska  18·2  23  
21  Texas Tech  17·6  NR  
22  Texas Christian  14-7  24  
23  Southern California  13·6  NR  
24 25  Mississippi State Central Florida  13·3 23-4  NR NR  

ESPN/USA Softball Collegiate Top 25 
team record points 
1 Arizona (20) 19·0 500 2 California 22·2 473 3 Stanford 18·2 450 4 Michigan 21"1 433 5 Texas 18·3 419 6 Tennessee 29·4 388 7 UClA 16·5 377 8 louisiana lafayette 21-2 354 9 Baylor 27-3 352 10 Texas A&M 23·2 315 11 Oklahoma 27-4 313 12 Alabama 25·6 300 13 Georgia 19·7 234 14 Washington 14·7 204 15 LSU 11·5 184 16 Florida 21·6 180 17 Oregon State 14·6 155 18 Missouri 20·2 148 19 Nebraska 17·5 133 20 Georgia Tech 23·6 117 21 Fresno State 13·5 107 22 Arizona State 22·4 98 23 Iowa 19·4 67 24 Florida State 19·9 63 25 Northwestern 13·6 40 
Women's Lacrosse Big East Conference 
team conf. overaJI 
Georgetown 1-0 4-1 Rutgers 1-0 2·2 Connecticut 0·0 4-1 NOTRE DAME 0·0 1·4 Boston College 0·1 3·1 Syracuse 0-1 4-2 

around the dial 
MLB SPRING TRAINING 
Braves vs. Mets, 1 p.m, ESPN 
NIT Cal Fullerton at Georgetown, 7 p.m, ESPN UNLV at South Carolina, 9 p.m, ESPN 
NCAA WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT 
Arizona at LSU, 7 p.m, ESPNU Purdue at Tennessee, 9 p.m, ESPNU 
NCAA WRESTLING 
2005 Championship, 2:30 p.m, ESPN2 
NBA 


Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -Paul Silas was hired to mentor the NBA's next superstar. While he succeeded with LeBron James, his failure with the rest of the team cost him his job. 
Silas was fired as coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers on Monday, his team fight­ing for a playoff spot after leading its division earlier this year. Longtime NBA assistant Brendan Malone was appointed interim coach. 
The dismissal came with 18 games left and the team clinging to the fifth playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. James seems to have been the only play­er who saw the move com­ing. 

"You could kind of tell the way the air was, how things were going around here, there was going to have to be a change," said James, who scored a fran­chise-record 56 points Sunday. "I didn't know it was going to be this soon." 
Silas told The Associated Press he was informed at a morning meeting with gen­eral manager Jim Paxson and new owner Dan Gilbert. 
"They didn't think the team was performing as well as it should be and they wanted to make a change," Paul Silas said. 
IN BRIEF Davis to remain as Indiana 
head coach next year 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Mike Davis will remain as Indiana's basketball coach for next season, a source close to the program said Monday. 
The source, who spoke with The Associated Press on condition of anonymity, declined to elaborate pending an official university announcement. 
That announcement is expected Tuesday, according to a spokesman for IU's sports information office. 
The decision by IU athletic director Rick Greenspan would resolve doubts about Davis' future that were spurred by the Hoosiers' 15-14 sea­son, which ended with a 6 7-60 loss to Vanderbilt last week in the NIT's first round. 
Greenspan has said he would eval­uate Davis' body of work before mak­ing any decision about the coach's future. He and Davis met last week and again Monday, The Indianapolis Star reported. 

Malone will coach Tues­day night's game at home against Detroit. He acknowledged he's in a tough situation, taking over a team late in the season that is expected to reach the playoffs. 
''I'm still in a state of shock about what hap­pened," Malone said after a morning practice. 
Despite James and fellow All-Star Zydrunas 11­gauskas, the Cavaliers have slumped since the All-Star break. They have lost nine of' 12 and nine straight road games, including Sunday's 105-98 loss to Toronto when the 20-year­old James became the :!'i>ungest NBA player to 
Bogut does it all for Utah, 
soon for the NBA 
SALT LAKE CITY -There are times when he acts like the tallest point guard in the country, and other times when he's merely the most dominating inside presence in the NCAA tournament. 
NBA executives salivate when his name is mentioned, though you'd be hard-pressed to find many basketball fans east of the Rockies who knew much about him only a few weeks ago. 
Without Andrew Bogut, Utah wouldn't even be playing this time of year, much less have an outside chance of making the Final Four. He's a superstar who just happens to need four other players on the court with him, much like Gladys Knight needed the Pips or Tom Petty the Heartbreakers. 
"I think all his teammates under­stand they're probably very fortunate to be playing with him," Utah coach Ray Giacoletti said during a tele­score 50 or more points. 
"We felt that if we didn't make this decision that we were jeopardizing our abili­ty to be a playoff team this year," Paxson said. 
"We're 64 games into the season and we still don't have a consistent rotation, substitution pattern, those type of things," Paxson said. "We didn't see that changing." 
"We felt the change today was necessary. It's going to put us in a better position to win," Gilbert said. 
Last week, Sii'as was fined $10,000 by the team for a derogatory comment about Utah forward Carlos Boozer, who left the team as a free agent last summer. 

phone interview Monday.Iverson says he may .share 
blame in altercation 
PIIILADELPHIA-Allen Iverson said Monday he's been contacted by the NBA regarding his allegation that a referee made inappropriate com­ments to him during a heated exchange following the 76ers' loss to the Chicago Bulls. 
He also said he expected to be fined or suspended because he started the argument. 
Iverson, upset about calls, chal­lenged referee Marc Davis after the 94-88 loss on Saturday. 
Iverson had to be restrained by teammates, and a few minutes later was seen heading in the direction of the referees' dressing room before general manager Billy King interced­ed and calmed him down. 
"From the history of it, I suspect something will happen to me," said Iverson, who did not practice with the team because of a thumb injury. 

Tuesday, March 22, 2005 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 

Apply Online (Deadline: March 27) www.nd.edu/,.,teamwork 




eamwor omorrow 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 22, 2005 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish struggle lVithout Thotnpson, fall 6-1 to Tennessee 
No. 3 singles player suffered knee injury against BYU 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
The Irish have seen better days. 
Last Friday in the absence of sophomore Christian Thompson, the No. 25 Irish (6­
7) fell 6-1 to No. 23 Tennessee (10-3). 
Christian Thompson, who plays at No. 3 singles and accounts for the other half of the No. 2 doubles team in the country, suffered a knee injury in her singles match against BYU March 13. 
Coach Jay Louderback is hopeful that the sophomore will recover in time for tomorrow's match against No. 53 Purdue (2­7), but the time of her return is still unknown. 
Until then, the team is finess­ing the skills of its newly-formed doubles teams and modified sin­gles lineup in anticipation of Purdue's talent-laden lineup. 
"I feel very good about our new doubles teams," Louderback said. "The big thing will be how well we play in sin­gles and that's what we will be working on in practice. For us to win, our kid:> need to play with confidence. They have to play hard and not think about what [position] they're playing." 
Louderback was impressed with how confidently the team played versus Tennessee last Friday, considering the lineup adjustments were made last­minute. 
Prior to the Tennessee meet, Louderback modified both the doubles and singles lineup in hopes that the team's depth would help them secure a win. Junior Kiki Sta~.tny taking the place of Christian Thompson at No. 1 doubles with Catrina Thompson and junior Jennifer Smith taking Stastny's place at No. 3 doubles with senior cap­tain Sarah Jane Connelly. 

In singles, Stastny assumed Christian Thompson's position at No. 3 while junior Liz Donohue and Sarah Jane Connelly moved up to No. 5 and No. 6 singles respectively. 
But in the end, the adjust­ments were not enough as freshman Brook Buck secured the lone point for the Irish. Buck bested Blakeley Griffith 6-3, 6-1 at No. 2 singles, improving her record to 19-7 on the season and 9-4 in dual matches. 
Buck and junior Lauren Connelly did not fare as well in doubles, losing to Melissa Schaub and Ghizela Schutte at No. 2 doubles. However, the newly formed team of Sarah Jane Connelly and Smith made the match competitive, fighting for the coveted doubles point after Catrina Thompson and Stastny claimed a win at No. 1 over Sabita Maharaj and Bryce Marable 8-4. 
After the duo jumped to a 7-4 advantage, it seemed likely that Sarah Jane Connelly and Jennifer Smith would secure the doubles point for the Irish. However; Tennessee's Griffith and Ashley Robards rebounded to force a tiebreaker and won 7­2. 
Although the doubles teams did not do as well as Buck had hoped, the freshman said she was proud of her teammates'. efforts. 
"I never doubt that each one of us is playing our hardest at 
any  meet,"  Buck  said.  
"Tennessee just had a  better  
day than us."  

The Lady Vols capitalized on their early success with wins at nearly every position in singles. Tennessee's Victoria Jones reg­istered the first point for the Lady Vols with a win over Lauren Connelly 6-1, 6-1 at No. 
4. 
Marable wasn't far behind with a 6-3, 6-0 defeat of Stastny at No. 3. Clinching the win for Tennessee, No. 44 Maharaj defeated No. 39 Catrina Thompson 6-1, 6-3 at No.1. 
After Tennessee had secured the win, Robards collected a vic­tory at No. 5 over Donohue 7-6, 6-2 and Schutte defeated Sarah Jane Connelly 6-1, 7-6 at No. 6. 
Despite the loss, Louderback was heartened by the team's performance. 
"When you have someone missing from the lineup, it's hard to play confidently and to adjust," Louderback said. "But I think we played well today. This group always plays hard; they're always out there fighting for every match." 
The Irish will take on Purdue tomorrow at the Eck Tennis Pavilion at 4 p.m. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
NO WoMEN's LAcRossE 
Coyne hopes for a rebound 
By MATT PUGLISI A~sociate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame is looking to rebound from a brutal spring break road trip. The Irish (1-4) dropped three consecutive games to Cornell, No. 16 Vanderbilt and James Madison and fell out of the Intercollegiate Women's Lacrosse Coaches' Association IIWLCA) national rankings for the first time since late April of 2001. The team returns to action this afternoon when they host California for a 4:30 p.m. matchup. 
After playing four of their first five contests on the road, coach Tracy Coyne and the Irish expect the friendly confines of Moose Krause Field -the team was 6-1 at home last year -to assist them in rebounding from an unexpectedly slow start to the 2005 season. 
"[Including California], seven of our next ten games are at home," Coyne said. ''I'm hoping that being at home is going to help us build some momentum moving forward." 
Although the visiting Golden Bears (4-3) don't have the same program history as some of the Eastern squads Notre Dame will lock horns with later this sea­son, Coyne expects California to give the Irish a challenge. 
"[The Bears are) very athletic and really fast," Coyne said. "They're definitely a newer pro­gram, but they're starting to develop some momentum from a recruiting standpoint so they're getting better players." 
California enters today's con­test on the heels of an 18-6 throttling to No. 2 Northwestern in Evanston, Ill. Sunday. The Wildcats knocked off the Irish 18-11 at Loftus when the two met March 3. Beginning with an 11-8 loss to Columbia in lthica, 
N.Y. March 6, the Notre Dame spring break road started off on a sour note and only got worse in the following week. 
Three days later, the Irish lost the second of their three spring break games in a 10-9 overtime heartbreaker to Vanderbilt in Nashville, Tenn. 
The overall Irish losing streak reached four March 13 when host James Madison jumped out to an 8-2 lead --in all three spring break contests the Irish found themselves trailing early -and never looked back in a 10-5 thumping of Notre Dame in Harrisonburg, Va. 
While Coyne was surprised with the results of the annual trip, she still believes that the Irish will eventually be able to right the ship. 
"I didn't expect what hap­

pened over spring break, but I still have confidence" Coyne said. "There's always positives -things the team is doing well that we can build on." 
"We just need to get both [offense and defense] on the field working well together. We need to play our game -how we want to control the tempo or how we want to run our attack or what we want to dictate on defense. Once those different things come together, I think we're going to be fine." 
Although the 1-4 start is dis­appointing, the Irish realize the season is far from over. With all five Big East conference games yet to be played, Notre Dame still has a chance to make some noise, both in the Big East and nationally, come season's end. 
"That's another thing -we haven't played any games in the Big East yet," Coyne said. "If we win the Big East, that would be a huge accomplishment because that's never been done before [by a Notre Dame team]." 
After battling California this afternoon, the Irish travel to Chestnut Ilill, Mass. Saturday for their first conference tilt againsi Boston College before returning home for three con­secutive games to begin April. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

WOMEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
BC keeps fighting without top player 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. Jessalyn Deveny's season-ending injury threatened to end Boston College's hopes of making the NCAA tournament and reaching its third straight round of 16. 
Yet the Eagles are preparing to play Duke in a matchup of future Atlantic Coast Conference rivals in Tuesday's second round. It proves something Cathy Inglese has known all along: she coaches a bunch of fighters. 
"The basic thing is that we recruit kids that want to get bet­ter and want to work hard and are very team-oriented," she said Monday. "If we weren't, we wouldn't be sitting here." 
Boston College (20-9), the No. 7 seed in the Chattanooga Regional, and second-seeded Duke (29-4) meet in the nightcap of a doubleheader at the Smith Center. In the opener, top-seeded North Carolina (28-3) faces No. 9 seed George Washington (23­
8) in the Tempe Regional on the Tar Heels' campus. 
Boston College is 5-5 since Deveny ruptured her right Achilles' tendon against Notre Dame on Feb. 2, but the Eagles have won four of their past six games after an initial rough stretch without the senior co­captain. 
They're winning despite see­ing a significant scoring drop without Deveny's 17 points per game. Boston College averaged 75 points in 17 games with her_ not counting her 1-minute appearance against Notre Dame -but has averaged just 55 points in the 10 games since the injury. 
The Eagles have gotten contri­butions from throughout their roster, with six players leading the team in scoring in the past 10 games. Senior co-captain Clare Droesch -who came in averaging 9.1 points-provided the latest boost, turning in a sea­son-high 23 points in the first­round win against Houston. 
She did that despite aggravat­ing a nagging left heel injury in the first half, an injury that will require surgery after the season. 
"If your team has tremendous character, you're going to have other players step forward and play above what they've been playing all year long," Duke coach Gail Goestenkors said. "And you're seeing that in the Boston College players. 
Irish Athletics This Week...5ETHEKE 
Women's lacrosse vs. California 
Baseball vs. Cincinnati Tues. March 22nd @4:30 PM 
Tues. March 22nd @ 5:05 PM 
Frank Eck StadiumMoose Krause Field* 

*In case of inclement weather. game will be moved to Loftus Sports Center 
• Cheer on the Irish during 
· First 100 fans will receive an ND Lacrosse their home-opener! ;PUWrrnarunr team puzzle, courtesy of iPUWp}rnarun. · The first 250 fans will tSPOR"f~, Play-It-Again-Sports 1S ~lRTS receive a long sleeved schedule 
t-shirt, courtesy of St. Clair Apparel!.Free Admission' *Free Admission with ND student ID 
Softball vs. w. Michigan 
Wed. March 23rd @4:00 PM Ivy Field IFree Admission! I 
Home-opener! '-·--------'· ·The first 250 fans will receive a long sleeved schedule t-shirt, court of St. Clair A el! 
·Notre Dame students be sure to stick around after the game to participate in the Egg-Stravagenza easter egg hunt for cash Field! 
'Ii.1esday, March 22, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Honors 
continued from page 24 
14th place finish in the samn nvont. 
The sophomoro also finislwd 14th this ynar in the 200-yard IM, narning anotlwr honorabln montion accoladn. 
While there was tho usual amount of pressurn that goes along with a championship nvnnt, this yoar's was different 
for l'nrry-Eaton, who was com­
peting for the last time as a 
Notre Dame student-athlete. 
"It seemed like I was putting 
most of tho pressure on 
myself," she said. "I felt a lot 
of pressure to finish with a 
bang." 
Perry-Eaton's bang may not 
have bnen as loud as she 
wantnd, but it was still a fitting 
nnding to her historic Notre 
Dame earner. . Her final point score of 303 
in tho one-meter event was 


only 24 behind champion Qiong Jie Huang from Hawaii, and was good enough to beat Indiana's Christina Loukas who had bested Perry-Eaton in the Zone C Championships last week. 
The only higher finishes by an Irish competitor were Perry-Eaton's third place finish last year off the lower board and Nixon's 2000 finish. 
Now an assistant with the team, Nixon played a key sup­porting role for Perry-Eaton. 
"She stayed with me during all my events," Perry-Eaton said. "Usually divers feel lik<~ they're all alone out thorn, and I had never had th.at (close support( before. 
Also competing over the weekend was junior Christel Bouvron, who linislwd 41st in the 100-yard butterfly and 

Irish diver Meghan Perry-Eaton somersaults In a Jan. 14 meet against Illinois at Rolfs Aquatic Center. Perry-Eaton and team­mate Katie Carroll earned All-American honors this year. 
then 22nd in the 200-yard ver­"It was easy to f'oeus on what sion of the swim. was good ... in the end it was a 
While it was still a bitter­lot of' l'un," l'nrry-Eaton said. sweet meet in some respects, it will be memorablo for all the Contact Mike Tennant Irish competitors involved. mtennant@nd.edu 

Bearcats 
continued from page 24 
Louisville. P"rior to those loss­flS, the Bearcats had some quality wins. They an~ 4-2 against ACC opponents Duke and Wake Forest. One of' those losses was a 12-inning, one­run defeat to the Demon Dnacons. 
Cineinnati is led by shortstop Mark !Iaske, who is batting a team-leading .359. Third base­man Jon DeLuca has 16 HBis. On del'ense·. the Boareats' pitching ace is right-hander Tony Maynard, who has a 2.95 EHA and an unblnrnished record. Maynard -the Bnareats' workhorse -has already thrown 39.2 innings. 
With eight players at seven starting pitcher, Mainieri said or more HBis, Notre Dame's it will be a game tinw dedsion. 
offensive  pro­ "I  honestly  
duction contin­ues to elim b.  "We need to make  don't know," he said. "We are  
But the defen­ some changes  adually going to  
sive and pitch­ing efforts con­tinue to slide -which is why  because we just did not play good baseball this weekend  pitch at least six or s1wen dilTnr­nnt guys tomor­row. Thny'll all  
Mainieri  feels  at Evansville. We  piteh  an  inning,  
the need to mix things up. "Some guys  might need to shake things up."  so that we have t.hnm ready for  ean all the  
just  haven't  conl'ernnee  
played very well," he said. "Some guys that  Paul Mainieri Irish coach  wneknnd." With eonf'er­enen play loom­ 
have-been here  ing,  the  Irish  

in the past and have donn well simply hopH to l'ind the most just are not doing well at this effective starting ninn in timn. point." 
Undecided on the starting Contact Tom Dorwart at outfielders as well as on the tdorwart@nd.edu 
Bookstore Basketball Team Registration ExtendedIll 
$20 per tean1 
Dtie to an ove•~helming reSJlOnse ttear the deadline, tea111 
registratiott has been extende(ltinti111:59Jli11 tottigltt. Go 
online to WWW.ND.EDU/·-..~BKSTR to •·egister yotir teant!!! 
All registratio11 'Yill tal~e place onli11e -pay111et1t by credit card. 
Captain~s I\lccting: Tuc:sday~ I\Iarch .29 a 7:30pnL 101 I)c:Batiolo 

r 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 22, 2005 
I 
I 
l 


Hettler 
continued from page 24 
trailing by 13 points, Arizona State rolled oll' an unfathomable 56-34 run to end the game, leav­ing Notre Dame frustrated and exhausted in a 70-61 final defeat. 
"We were cut and bleeding," Notre Dame's Jacqueline Batteast said. "They smelled blood, and they didn't let up." 
Just like that, a season that had so much promise carne to a crashing and abrupt end in the middle of Ca)if()rnia long bnfore anyone expected. Notre Dame tal­lied the third most regular season victories in school history this sea­son with 26, but this team will be remembered more for its early exit in the Big Dance than for any of those successes. 
After Arizona State began the game on a 7-0 run, Notre Dame promptly responded with a 27-7 spurt that placed the Sun Devils squarely on the ropes with just 
3:47 left in the half. The Irish needed one more 
punch for the knockout. They never got it. As the second half played out, 
Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw knew the ship was quickly sinking. During one time­out early in the half, she screamed at her players to play more as a team. It was more of a plea than a demand. 
The Irish simply couldn't wres­tle back the momentum Arizona State built up during the end of the first half and beginning of the second. All-Big East freshman Charel Allen, Notre Dame's No. 1 option oil' the beneh, went down with a torn ACL at the 14:23 mark of the second half and the Irish trailing 35-32. 
With 10:37 left, Batteast missed a lay-up and Arizona State's Kristen Kovesdy drained a jumper on the other end to put the Sun Devils up nine. Afi;er cutting the lead down to just live at the 6:13 mark, the Sun Devils Emily Westerberg sank an off-balance shot in the lane, drew the foul and made the free throw, putting her team back up by eight at 52-44. 
Finally, Arizona State point guard Kylan Loney put the fmal nail in the coffin ending Notre Dame's season with a 3-pointer, giving the Sun Devils a 63-54 lead with just 1:10 remaining. 
As the reality set in, the faces of the Irish coaches and players told the whole story. A barely audible 


Devils 
continued from page 24 
That stretch of 13 minutes 30 seconds saw Arizona State outscore Notre Dame 27-5 and build a 41-32 advantage while the Irish committed 12 McGraw spoke hurriedly during the post-game press conference, still in shock from what she had just witnessed. Batteast fought back tears as she shook hands with Arizona State players, and Tuylah Gaines smacked her hands together in frustration moments after the fmal buzzer sounded. 
All the promise, all the opportu­nities, all the potential was whisked away from Notre Dame in just two short hours at the Save Mart Arena in Fresno. No doubt, Batteast will take this loss hard­est. The South Bend native had a magical career under the golden dome. 
She ends it as the program's fourth all-time leading scorer and, perhaps more importantly, the face of the women's team. Batteast led Notre Dame to two Sweet 16s and a 27-6 record dur­ing her senior season. But it won't be enough in her eyes. She said more than once that this team would accept nothing less than passing through the Sweet 16 into the Elite Eight. Not reaching the third round will be the toughest pill she's had to swallow during her four years at Notre Dame. 
Last season, after a tough defeat to No. 1 seed Penn State, Notre Dame seemed somewhat satisfied with reaching the Sweet 16 and battling the Nittany lions for 40 minutes. 
But this season is difl'erent. This season the Irish eyed big things from the get-go, especially after winning the Preseason National Invitation Tournament with wins over Duke and Ohio State. 
This season, the Irish had seven wins against top-25 opponents and looked downright scary in many of those victories. Tllis sea­son the Irish knew they had the personnel, the ability and the determination to legitimately fight for a spot in Indianapolis and the Final Four. 
But after last night, this season is in the past. Notre Dame sprint­ed past California Santa Barbara in the first round only to be tripped up by Arizona State two nights later. They let a 27-14 lead slip away, and-in the process­saw a season of hope and promise slip away with it. 
Notre Dame's players shouldn't allow this loss to ruin an other­wise wonderful five months of basketball. The Irish accom­plished some great feats en route to their 27 wins. 
But it's doubtful any of the play­ers or coaches on this team will be so optimistic. Who can blame 
them? Notre Dame had a chance 
to do some remarkable things in 
March. 
Instead, they choked when the stakes were greatest. Instead, they faltered in theface of tough opposition. Instead, they simply didn't do enough. 
For most Irish players, they have an entire ofl~season to think about what could have been. For others, like seniors Teresa Borton and Batteast, they have the rest of their lives to ponder how far this team could have gone. 
When the final buzzer sounded a few minutes after 11 p.m. EST Monday night and Arizona State's players celebrated a Sweet 16 berth at mid-court, Notre Dame's season officially perished. With it died the dreams of the players and coaches who believed tllis Irish team had the chance to trav­el deep into the NCAA Tournament. 
Now, they're simply left unful­filled. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd. edu 

AP Arizona State's Amy Denson, left, leans past Jacqueline Batteast in the first half of their second-round NCAA tournament game. 
arc. The win sends Arizona State the half ___:__ the first Arizona 
Once the 3-pointers started to its first Sweet 16 since 1983. State 3-pointer since its open­falling -the Sun Devils fin­Prior to this year's NCAA tour­ing basket -sending the Sun ished 5-of-13 after starting 1-nament, the Sun Devils had Devils into the locker room of-8 -the tide turned quickly. never won two games in the down 28-23 and with all the 
"We knew that we have great same NCAA tournament. The momentum they would need for shooters. That was the key to Sun Devils are hosting the a second-half run to the Sweet the game," Arizona State coach regionals this weekend and 16. Charli Turner Thorne said. await the winner of tonight's "Our top shooters were aggres­game between No. 1 seed North Notes: sive." Carolina and No. 8 George + Freshman Charel Allen 
Notre Dame's Jacqueline Washington. injurnd her left knee when she Batteast, Big East Player-of­"It was a hard fought battle," was fouled on a breakaway the-Year, ended her collegiate Thorne said. "I'm really with 14:23 remaining in the career with 20 points on 8-of-pleased and proud of my team second hair. AJJp,n had to be 19 shooting and eight for its toughness and sticking helped off the court. rebounds. with things. McGraw said after the gamp, 
Seeing the season hanging in "We're happy to be going that Allen tore her anterior the balance, Megan Duffy put home." cruciate ligament. the Irish on her back, keeping The Sun Devils came out Allen, named to the Big East them in the game when nothing quickly, scoring on three of all-freshman team on Mareh 4, else was working offensively. their first four possessions, and eame into Monday night's game The junior scored 20 of her 24 jumped out to a 7-0 lead. averaging 7.9 points and 4.3 points in the second half­Then the Irish defense buck­rebounds per game. draining 3-pointers, driving to led down. Notre Dame's 2-3 the basket and getting to the zone kept the Sun Devils frus­Contact Matt Lozar at foul line where she made 9-of-trated as the Irish went on a mlozar@nd.edu 10 overall. 27-7 run during the next 13:58 
But each time the Irish tried to build a 13-point lead with to 'make a run -they got as 3:47 remaining in the half. dose as four points -the Sun Batteast led the Irish with 10 Devils had an answer. points during that stretch, but 
Arizona State made the she continued her NCAA tour­
Offering defensive stops the Irish eould­nament struggles and looked afk.lmabl6 
flying lessons

n 't, and the reason McGraw frustrated while never getting 
!rom South Uond

cited for defensive futility frus­into a good offensive flow. 
Rflgional Airpmt

trated her. Notre Dame looked poised to 
"We looked tired mentally," take a double-digit advantage she said. "I don't know what into the locker room, but that was. You have to dig down Arizona State closed the half on and play harder. That's what a 9-1 run. Betsy Boardman was so disappointing." drilled a 3-pointer at the end of 
Do you have enough wood to become a part of the best event on campus? 
If you would like to build a boat and submit a team for the Fisher Regatta there is still time. Contact Mike Bufalino at tnbufalin(g~nd.edu if you are interested or would like any further information. 
turnovers. 
Earlier in the game, Notre Dame's 2-3 zone stifled the Arizona State offense -forcing turnovers and bad shots. But the Sun Devils made adjust­ments to get quick baskets on fast breaks, lay-ups off passes from the high post and open looks from behind the 3-point 


Tuesday, March 22, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT FROM NOW ON, ALL OF MY ARGUMENTS WILL BE BASED ON DEFINITIONS THAT ARE NOT IN ANY DIC­TIONARY.  FOR EXAMPLE, I COULD ARGUE THAT YOU'RE A FASCIST BECAUSE YOU'RE WEARING PAJAMAS.  SCOTT ADAMS  
PEANUTS  CHARLES SCHULZ  


HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
I GOUGH j



[) t 

C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
CHATY 


I I I
tPINKAD 


WHf:N SHE: GOT THE BIL-L. FOR.
I J I 

THE DIAMOND PIN, HE GOT--­www.jumble.com 
ISTEWEN ~ 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

I rJ I J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer:"( I I I I J'rI I I JIT 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: OLDER TWEAK FAMISH EFFORT Answer: Why the door-to-door salesman was spurned -HE "ASKED" FOR IT 

CROSSWORD 

WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 36 Irrelevant, as a 67 four 1 Swear to point (teacake) 5 "What's the 38 Jump for joy 68 Marsh plant 
that can 39 A barber has to 69 Clutter happen?" work around it 70 Perfect places 10 Nose (out) 40 Faculty member 71 Luke 14 Ending with 42 Burn _crisp Skywalker's hard or soft mentor
43 First-class 15 Baker who sang 
45 Radio tuner"Sweet Love," DOWN46 Glimpse
1986 

1 _plane16 Shed one's skin 
47 Gym shoes, for (military craft) short11 Many a 2 Comparisonhomecoming 49 "Golden Boy" shopper's quest
attendee playwright 3 Blow one's top
Clifford18 Work over, as a 4 Chanr:tel

ship 51 Clothesline surfers' gadgets
alternative19 Fat of the lamb 5 Violation of the53 Wrestler20 "Draw one," in Geneva 

diner slang 57 Companion for 
Convention 23 Wildebeest 
Tarzan 
6 "_'Clock 

24 English dog 59 "Sun kiss," in Jump" (1930'sdiner slang
25 Straight from hit) the garden 62 Holds close 
7 Jazz .Phrase 27 Rewrites 64 Oak-to-be 
8 Not flexible 30 Broken arms 65 Gaming table 
9 Idaho produce, may go in them fee 
informally 34 Make, as money 44 Deface 55 Played on stage 33 Foul callers 66 Hence 
10 Ambulance inits. 

35 "Flop two," in 46 Ocean inlet 56 "I vacation!" 11 "Life diner slang 
48 South-of-the­57 Throat-clearing

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
preservers," in 


border shawl diner slang 
37 Sen. Cochran of sound 
Mississippi 50 Mahal 58 Unadulterated12 Secluded valley 40 Capital where 52 Went like the 60 Writtenthe yen is wind reminder

capital 
54 Sal of "Rebel 61 Smile

41 Periodic table Without a listings Cause" 63 "Send help!" 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST 


HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Malthew Broderick, 43; Rosie O'Donnell, 
43; Gary Oldman, 47; Timothy Dalton, 59 
Happy Hirthd11y: You may be torn between what you should he doing and what 
you want to do. You will have to satisfy hoth sides of the coin in order to be 
-successful. Ask for help doing what you arc responsible for, but go it alone when it comes to what you arc passionate ahoul. Finding the right balance will he the key. Your numbers are I, 17, 19, 22, 31,40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A new job or an opportunity to make some money is evident today. A relationship that you value will bring you added pleasure. You ­can impress and inlluence someone younger who looks up to you. uu• TAURUS (Aprii20-Muy 20): Too many changes without proper preparation will come hack to haunt you. Be careful what you say to others; you may he questioned later about a particular comment you made. Stick to the truth. ** GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): You should he ahle to linish what you started today. If you just stick to what you do best, the rest will fall into place. A new friendship may open doors or turn into a worthwhile partnership.**** CANCER (June 21-.July 22): Concentrate on what you can do to get ahead financially. The odds arc in your favor, and th<' ability to put a deal together is looking good. Change will bring about a whole new outlook. *** LEO (July 23-Au~-:. 22): Stand tall and prepare In grab everyone's attention today. You will he right on target, and you should he uhle to make some interesting 
·suggestions. You could meet someone you will want to get to know better. *** VIR(;() (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Something may be going on hchind your hack. Don't waste too much time trying to figure out what everyone else is up to. A surprise may he coming your way with the possibility of a financial gain. *"* LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): There will be plenty of action going on :iround you today. Love is in the picture, making the possibilities endless. Consider what you can do to make personal improvements. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may think you have everything taken care of. hut chances arc good you'll have to make more adjustments. You may reel anxious, but that is no reason to overcompensate or take on more than you can handle. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov, 22-Dec. 21): You will have plenty to do and plenty to say today. The more you integrate with others, the further ahead you can gel. A chance to take part in some sort of competition or challenge will entice you. ***** 
-
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may want to think twice before you decide to take on something that is too much for you. A good deal is only worthwhile if you can handle your end of il. Caution must he taken with finances. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. IKJ: You'll he impulsive today. Guard against making snap decisions that will get you into trouble. Get involved in something like a sports activity that will help you to take out your frustrations in a safe environment. 
** 

PISCES (Feh. 19-March 20): You may feel like daydreaming today, hut you should focus on being productive and getting a lot done. If you work hard, you will advance. Don't let personal matters interfere with what you know you should be doing. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, sympathetic and sociable. You arc self-suflicicnt and unique in your approach to everything you pursue. You attract a crowd and hold its interest. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astrotulvice.com jilf fun, eugenialast.com for confidential ctmsu!tations 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name ____________________________________________ 
Address~~----~~~~~~--~--~~~~~-­City ~------~~~-State _______ Zip___________ 
THE OBSERVER 





PORTS
Tuesday, March 22, 2005 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish bow out of 2005 NCAA tournament in the second round 
By MATT LOZAR Senior StaffWrirer 
FRESNO, Calif. -A promis­ing season came to an end Monday night when Notre Dame's strength became a lia­bility. 
After building a 27-14 first­half lead, the Irish (27-6) couldn't stop Arizona State (24-9), losing 70-61 in tho sec­ond round of the NCAA tourna­ment at the Save Mart Center at Fresno State University. 
The Irish do not advance to the Sweet 16 for the first time since 2002. 
"They jumped out to a quick 17-0I start, but we settled. in," Irish coach Muffet MeG raw said. "I thought we lost the game at the end of tlw first half and beginning of the sec­ond half. 
"During that stretch, we couldn't do anything right." 
see DEVILS/page 22 

Finished in Fresno 


ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Carroll, Perry-Eat~on named All-Americans 
By MIKE TENNANT · Sports Writer 
Add two more Irish All­Americans to the list. Sophomore swimmer Katie Carroll and fifth-year senior 
-diver Meghan Perry-Eaton both earned All-American honors this weekend at the NCAA Championships at Purdue University. Led by its two stars, Notre Dame fin­ished the weekend with 32 points and a 22nd place team finish, the third highest in Notre Dame history. Perry-Eaton ended a his­toric diving career at the University by taking fifth place off the one-meter springboard, earning her All­American honors. She also finished a career-best 15th off the three-meter board, earn­ing honorable mention All­American status in the event. "I knew it was my last out­ing and I wanted to be happy with it no matter what," she said. This was the second year in a row that Perry-Eaton was 
named an All-American, fin­ishing third in one-meter action last season. 
"I really wanted to be in the top three at least," the five­time Big East Champion said. "But All American is a pretty neat thing to say.' 
In the pool, Carroll finished sixth in the 400-yard individ­ual medley, earning her All­American status. Her time of 
4:13.56 broke her own school yards record and put her nine seconds behind 1:he champi­on, Auburn's Kristy Coventry, a gold medalist in the Athens Olympics. 
It was also the second-best performance ever by an Irish swimmer in the NCAA Championship meet, behind only Carhe Nixon's fourth place finish in the 2000 50­yard freestyle. 
Carroll was seeded 19th going into the event and became the fifth Irish swim­mer ever to earn All­American honors. She was an honorable mention All­American last year after a 
see HONORS/page 21 

Second-round loss an abrupt end to potential­filled tourney run 
FRESNO, Calif.-Notre Dame's season began its slow death as the first half buzzer sounded with the Irish up five in their second round NCAA tournament game against Arizona State on Monday. 
That's when the Sun Devils Betsy Boardman drained a 3­pointer. cut­ting Notrn Dame's 27-14 advantage to 28-23. Arizona State had the momentum and didn't look back. 
The Irish couldn't find any trac­tion after that shot, struggling against a Sun Devil squad that suddenly grabbed every rebound, drained every key basket and controlled every loose ball. After 
see HETTLER/page 22 

Joe Hettler 
Senior Staff Writer 
BASEBALL 

Irish host 1 Cats in hotne opener 
Future Big East foe begins Frank Eck Stadium schedule 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 

For the first time this sea­son, the Irish will sprint to their respective spots on the natural grass at Frank Eck Stadium when they take on the Cincinnati Bearcats (8-8) tonight at 5 p.m. 
Which nine players will make that first sprint, howev­er, is up for debate. There are 29 players on the Notre Dame roster, and coach Paul Mainieri has gone' to his bench often already. 
''I'm just debating a lot of things right now -what the best way to go into this week would be," he said. "Certainly we need to make, some changes, because we just did not play good baseball this weekend at Evansville, so I just got to look at the big pic­ture here and make a decision on who we want to go with. 
"I just feel that we might need to shake things up this week and give some other guys a chance." 

The Irish are happy to be home after finishing 7-9 in the first 16 games of the young season. 
"I can't even describe how good it is to be nome after being on the road for five straight weekends -our first sixteen games of the year on the road," Mainieri said. "We'll finally get a chance to play at home where tradition­ally we've played very well. Hopefully it's going to be just what the doctor ordered. We just need to settl<'l in a little 
bit, play well at home and get 
things going  in  the right  
direction."  
The  meeting  with  the  

Bearcats marks the first game of a seven-game home stand for the Irish. This weekend, the Irish open Big East Conference play with double­headers against Georgetown on Thursday and Seton Hall on Saturday. 
Cincinnati is coming ciff a winless effort in three games against Conference USA foe 
see BEARCATS/page 21 


LLI  WOMEN'S lACROSSE  NO WOMEN~s TENNIS  NBA  MlB  NFL  WOMEN'S BBAU.  
(,) z::5 =  California at Notre Dame Today, 4:30 p.m.  Thomps·Dn may playagainst Purdue Sophomore suffered knee  Cleveland fires head coach Silas Cavaliers management  Schilling returns to the mound Pitcher makes his first  Colts find plan to finance stadium Service tax would pay  S~;~mmitt fioes for wm recor Legendary Tennessee  
c:a::  Irish look to rebound after a tough stretch.  injury against BYU March 13.  cites a lack of player development in firing.  start of the spring against minor leaguers.  for construction of a new football venue.  coach looks for win No. 880 Tuesday.  
=c  page 20  page 20  page 18  page 17  page 15  page 15  









