
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND legal experts stand behind Roberts 
unlikely to creab1 controversy. action," Bellia said. "I think he's firmed, because the polariza­Arnold reflected on the lack of By MADDIE HANNA Notre Dame law professor an excellent choice. He strikes tion's gotten worse. But that's controversy in Hoberts' back­Associate News Editor Hichard Garnett, who derked for me as somebody being con­unfortunate, because whatever ground. Hoberts' stint in private 
Hnhnquist in 1996 and 1997 and cerned about the one's ideological practice reveals little about his SuprP.me Court chief justice has mot Hoberts, said he saw the law of the case as views, based on beliefs, Arnold said. nominee .John Hobnrts, who was nominee argue before the opposed to the pol­his merits he is "Even though he has a large
"He's the best 
elevatNI following the death of Supremo Court several times. ities or the case." one of the best paper trail, it is a paper trail Chief .Justico William Hehnquist "lie was fabulous," Garnett Garnett said Supreme Court qualified nominees reflecting the views of his Saturday, has 
said. "It was kind of like, when Hoberts' confirma­advocate I had in 50 years." dients," he said. not benn told the word got out that Roberts tion was a "sure Political science But (;arnett said what is
ever seen in
when his olli­was arguing, pnople would drop thing," although he professor David known about Hobnrts -and the
action."
dal confirma­what they were doing and go predicted around Campbell said he paper trail mentioned ~y Arnold tion hearings watch because it was going to 25 or 30 no-votes. thought Hoberts -is relativnly standard for will begin. watch a real craftsman." "Tho Democrats A.J. Bellia would most likely Supreme Court nominees. 
But. Notre Similarly, law professor A.J. won't have the be approved "I probably disagrn1~ with
Notre Dame law
Damn legal Bollia, who clerked for Supreme votes to sustain a quickly, noting those who are saying the paper
professor
exports gave Court Justice Antonin Scalia in filibuster even if that he is "not a trail doesn't tell us much," he tlw potnn tial 1997 and 1998, called Hoberts they wanted to," hard-corn ideo-said. "It's certainly more than we justicn th n i r Roberts "phenomenal." Garnett said. "I think poople will Iogue." knew about, say, David Souter. It snal of' "He's the best Supreme Court vote against him, even though Both Campbell and fellow approval and said tlw process is advocate I bad ever seen in they know he's going to be eon-political science professor Peri see ROBERTS/page 8 
Hurricane drives fundraising, frustration 

University collects donations, supplies 
By KArlE PERRY Nt•ws Writer 
The nation may lm in discord n•garding t.hn federal govern­nwnt's n~sponsn in the after­math of llurricane 
See Also
Katrina, but Notre Damn "Nine Days of 
studnnt lead­
Prayer held lor 
~~rs focused 
storm victims"
on harmony Monday, uni­page 3 fying their dl'orts to pro­vidl~ aid to vietims of thn disas­tnr. 
Stwlent govnrnment members and rnprnsm1tatives from vari­
see SUPPLIES/page 10 
Students affected by higher gas prices 
By LAUREN LAVELLE News Writer 
Eleven days after Hurricane Katrina bar­roled into the southnrn United States, 
See Also
students at Notre "Gas prices 
Dame and slow holidayS a i n t 
travel"
Mary's are experienc-page 11 ing its debilitat­ing aftermath in the form of high gas prices. 
Katrina snverely dam­
AP aged several oil refineries Residents wait with containers for a gas station to open in Poplarville, Miss. Monday. Gas shortages have affected local students, as well. see GAS PRICES/page 8 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Baron provides updates, emphasizes unity 
By MARY KATE MALONE News Writt·r 
As students, mctors and pro­f11ssors took thnir seats at Monday's Campus Life Council (CLCI nweting, studnnt body prnsidnnt Davn Baron noticed a dmtr division. 
"As you can s 111~, there is alrnady a eonglonwration of rnetors on onn sido and stu­dnnts on tho othnr, and that is not in the best intnrnst of this group," Baron said. "Wn need to bn one united group eommit­tnd to building a unif'ied cam­
.pus." 
Baron plans on using the Council to identify and improve armts whnrn voices aren't being heard -wlwtlwr they are those of rectors, faculty, students or minorities. 
After a quick seat rearrange­nwnt, students were sitting in betwnen rectors and profes­sors. 
Baron !irst updated members on the progress of projects that were not ynt completed at the end or the school year last spring. 
Judicial Council President .James Leito, charged with improving vending and laundry machine prices on campus, shared with members a letter from vice president of student affairs Father Mark Poorman. The note outlined the changes that have been made' in response to Leito's requests for lower laundry and vending prices. 
see CLC/page 8 

Sandusky art show in ~ Snite 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint Mary's Ediror 
As a young artist living and working in Flon'JH~e. Italy in the 1970s, Saint Mary's art departmf~nt ehair Bill Sandusky liked to frequent the Braneacei Chapel of Santa Maria del Carmine and study its famnd f'roscos. 
"It was a great place," Sandusky said. "You could go and sit tranquilly and look at it. I just liked to commurw with )painter! Massacio." 
So inspired by the biblical depictions covering the chapel walls, Sandusky thought he might like to reereate tho work himsnlf' one day. 
Sandusky was also in Italy when he became a part-time Saint Mary's professor, com­muting regularly to tl111 capital city to teach art classes to stu­dents studying abroad with tho College's Bomn program. 
Finding Saint Mary's stu­dents intelligent and engaging, Sandusky applied f'or a full time position at the College in 1980 and moved to tlw llnitnd States f'or what he thought would bn nothing morn than a brief stay. 
"My wife and I thought it would be cool to spend a year in South Bend ... and 26 years later, we are still hero," Sandusky said. 
Busy teaching painting and lithography and raising a fam­ily, Sandusky never seriously considered undertaking the massive projeet or re-inter­preting the Chapel's work. However, during a 2002 trip to Italy, Sandusky revisited the Braneaeci Chapel, whieh had undergone major renovations. 
see SNITE/page I 0 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
To Notre Da111e, v. 
''lie's probably with that cutie fresh­man he's been macking on. She's got a boyfriend, though -it's one of those-guy­back-home things. But you know she's going to be at a party, and some guy's going to Notre Dame her ... " 
Maddie Hanna 
"Wait, what?" I quickly jumped in to the dinner conver­
Associate
sation unfolding 
News Editor 
between five of my guy friends. "He's going to do what?" 
The table erupted in laughter, and I realized how out of place I was in this strange world of guy talk. I demanded an explanation. The following comes straight from my sources that wish to remain nameless. They say this is "the up-and-coming thing." Decide for your­self. 
To Notre Dame, v.: A method of con­ducting oneself aroii.nd a member of the opposite sex, which ha'i five separate ­but equal-components. 
1. 
Judgment must be impaired. 

2. 
It has to take place in a crowded area. Especially good places are alleys and basement<; of really sketchy houses. 

3. 
You have to make out with her for a decent amount of time -at least 10-15 minutes. 

4. 
She ean NOT spend the night. She MUST go home with her girlfriends. 

5. 
When you see her again, later on, it must be as awkward as possible. Like you don-'t want to talk about it. And maybe you don't. But ifyou do, it is really, really uncomfortable. 


At first glance, I would say the concept is ridiculous. Yes, it's embarrassing. Yes, it's chauvinistic ... right? 
Wrong. It works both ways. As the guys pointed out, "Girls can Notre Dame guys too, and they definitely do." One even said girls like it more than guys do ­although that is certainly subject to debate. But the real question is their usage of the term. 
To Notre Dame. Our holier-than-most school has been reduced to a verb that references a seamy Saturday night encounter between two young, buzzed Darners. But, as the guys are trying to say, a relatively innocent encounter ­because girls here won't let it go further. Notre Darning repeats itself over and over again, but almost never with the same participants. And it's taken for granted on this campus, just like quarter dogs at midnight and swarming crowds on football weekends. 
It's safe to say that Notre Darning someone is taken for granted at college campuses across the nation. But at other schools, it's not always so contrived, not always so forced. More notably, it's not always so innocent. 
The time-worn complaint from guys here is that Notre Dame girls "don't put out." This column won't use statistics, just the assumption there is less sexual activity here than at many other colleges. That's nothing new. But what many stu­dents overlook is the nature of the University, the seniors it attracts and the student<> it molds. The campus is socially conservative. Whether that draws like­minded girls or influences them upon arrival is a tough question. But one thing's for sure -nothing's going to change. 
Because, come on, it's Notre Dame. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at 
mhannal@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

--------~~~~~~~-~~~~-~~~----------. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 6, 2005 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DOING TO HELP THE HURRICANE KATRINA RELIEF EFFORTS? 




Davin Costa  Garrett Hohimer  Jason Laws  Lindsey Hays  Meagan Conway  
senior Knott  graduate student offcampus  junior Fisher  senior Pasquerilla West  sophomore Breen-Phillips  
'Tm donating money.  'Tm helping to collect money at  'Tm volunteering through student  'Tm giving money.  "/donated money.  

LaFortune and government organizing a collections at the Habitat for Michigan State Humanity relief game. .. trip for December 
break.,, 

SOFIA BALLON!The Observer 
Student government set up a table in LaFortune Monday to collect donations for the Hurricane Katrina relief effort. The table will be open for donations from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. through Sept. 15. 
OFFBEAT 
German saboteurs design exploding chocolate bar 
LONDON -German 
saboteurs designed an 
exploding chocolate bar for 
a campaign of sabotage 
against Britain in World 
War II, according to docu­
ments released Monday by 
the British National 
Archives. There was no 
evidence, however, that 
such lethal treats were 
ever deployed. 
The chocolate bomb was 
illustrated in documents 
which also explained that it 
was intended to blow up 
seven seconds after some­
one tried to break off a 
piece. The sketch of the 
TODAY 
a:: 
LLI 
::1: 
!;;: 
LLI 
~ 
_, 
~ 
<
CJ 
0 
device, labeled in English, was apparently made by British agents. 
"The bomb is made of steel with a thin covering of real chocolate," the note said. "When the piece of chocolate at the end is bro­ken off the canvas shown is pulled, and after a delay of seven seconds the bomb explodes." 
Gas prices drive man to commute by horse 
MINOT, N.D. -Jim Jundt was so determined to rein in his spending on gasoline that he got out of bed early and rode his 14~year-old quarterhorse mare to work. 

Jundt lives 15 miles south of Minot and works as a mechanic at Goodyear Tire & Auto Service in the city. 
He said he and his co­workers had been talking about rising fuel prices, and he joked that he would ride his horse to work if gasoline ever hit $3 a gal­lon. 
His co-workers laughed, but when the price at the pump soared to $3.20 last week, Jundt headed for the barn. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
t 
HIGH 85 HIGH 62 HIGH HIGH 82
...I 
LOW 72 LOW 50 LOW LOW 60 
IN BRIEF 
The hockey team and Notre Dame Athletics will sponsor the inaugural "Drop the Puck" din­ner today. Events include an open skate from 5:30 p.m. to 6 on the Joyce Center Ice Rink, autographs with the team at 6 p.m., dinner at 7 p.m. and guest speaker Hockey Hall of Farner Scotty Bowman, the for­mer Detroit Red Wings head coach and winningest coach in NIIL history -including Nine Stanley Cups. 
A conference titled "Capture Gamma-Ray Spectroscopy and Related Topics" will take place all day through Friday in the McKenna Hall auditorium. The themes of the conference include Nuclear Structure, Nuclear Symmetries, Nuclear Astrophysics and Instrumentation, Facilities and Applications of Nuclear Science. 
The tri-military branches of ROTC will sponsor a Patriot's Day ceremony Friday at 7 a.m. next to the Hesburgh Library Reflecting Pool. The event will feature speaker retired Lieutenant Colonel Douglass R. Hemphill, a former Notre Dame professor of Military Science and current academic advisor in the Mendoza College of Business. The public is invited to attend. 
An exhibit entitled Two Italian Hardbodies: Sports Cars Clad by Scaglietti and Frua will be on display in the Snite Museum of Art Entrance Atrium Gallery until Sept. 18. The exhibit fea­tures a 1958 Ferrari and a 1955 Maserati. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 
~ 
HIGH 83 HIGH 84 LOW 62 LOW 62 
Atlanta 81 I 65 Boston 77 I 62 Chicago 87 I 65 Denver 81 I 59 Houston 91 I 70 Los Angeles 83 I 60 Minneapolis 81 I 58 
• New York 83 I 64 Philadelphia 83 I 60 Phoenix 105 I 82 Seattle 74 I 54 St. Louis 89 I 65 Tampa 90 I 75 Washington 83 I 62 
Tuesday, September 6, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Nine days of prayer held for storn1 vicfuns 
By KATIE MCANANY 
News Writer 
Nine consneutivn days of prayer dedkatnd to thn victims of llurrieane Katrina will eom­mencn at the Basilica of the Sacrnd Ilnart tonight at 6:30 p.m., lasting 15 minutes each rowful nature, Hocca said he thought those praying would feel particularly connected with the hurricane's vietims. 
"Prayer is another powerful way people can reach out to victims of Katrina," Hocca said. 
Breen-Phillips rector Hache! 
Kellogg said she received an e­mail about the Novena and 

night. "thought it was
"Prayer is another 
These nine days a good idea." 
powerful way
of rnadings, rnflec­"People get tions, songs, inter­people can reach frustrated enssion and because they
out to victims of 
prayer, called a see it on TV day
Katrina."
Novena, are typi­after day and nLlly a way to pre­want to be able pare for a major Father Peter Rocca to help people, feast day of the but feel as if
Basilica rector 
Catholic Church. 
Director of Campus Ministry Father Hichard Warner came up with the idea to commemorate this Novena to those affected by llurricane Katrina. 
The Novena had already bllen scheduled in preparation for thn Feast of Our Lady of Sorrows, which is the patronal feast of the Congrngation of the lloly Cross, Basilica rector Father Petnr Hocea said. 
"It's a coineidence that our nnnd for praynr falls now beeause this particular prayer f'oeuses on the Sorrows of Mary," Hocca said. 
Because of the Novena's sor­
they can't do 
anything about it," Kellogg said. "I think the prayer .services will help not only as added prayer for the people who need it, but also as support for people here who will pray here together." 
Cavanaugh freshman Michelle Byrne said she was glad the University had organ­ized the Novena services, which she plans to attend. 
"It's a gnmt way for people to pray together for something that is affecting students on our own campus," she said. 
Contact Katie McAnany at kmcanany@nd.edu 



Student goes to pageant in Ireland 
Notre Dame junior participates in summer Rose of Tralee Festival 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Wri[er 
Notre Dame's Molly Kealy grew up listening to her grandfather sing the lyrics to "Hose of Tralee," an Irish love song. This August, she was given the chance to step into the song when she traveled to Ireland to take part in the Hose of Tralee Festival. 
The Festival -an annual town event based on the song -celebrates people of Irish descent worldwide and their heritage. 
Kealy, a junior from Dallas, Texas, is a Film, Television and Theater major and an Irish Studies minor. In June, she became the Texas Rose of Tralee. 
Kealy said she had watched friends participate in the pop­ular Texas Hose of Tralee Ball during previous years and decided to compete to become the rose of whom her grandfa­ther sang. The second time Kealy participated in the Texas Ball, she won, earning the honor of representing Texas in Tralee, Ireland this summer. 
Kealy joined 29 other women of varying degrees of Irish her­itage Aug. 19-23 to compete to win the title of the 47th Hose ofTralee. 
Kealy said she and the other girls in the festival were treat­ed like celebrities -she toured Ireland as television cameras followed her around, and judges watched her around the clock to see how she interacted with her fellow Rose candidates, as well as with the Irish people. 

Kealy said the festival is "about personality and poise -it's not a beauty pageant." The Festival was spon­
sored by New "It was fun being a she placed her Bridge Silverwear, celebrity for a hat on Dublin which Kealy said pop singer
week."
"poured jewelry on Samantha [the Rosesl." Mumba's head. 
In Ireland -par­Molly Kealy The photo of ticularly Tralee -junior Kealy and 
"It was fun being a celebrity for a week," Kealy said. "It was like 'The Baehelorettn.' All the escorts had been okayed, and they doted on their 'Rose' tho entire wonk." 
As a representative of Dallas, Kealy showed her Texan pride by wearing a cow­boy hat through much of the festivities. At one point dur­. ing the festival, 
the Festival is a very .popular event. The town of Tralee depends on the festival for much of its income. Coverage of the event dominated RTE, an Irish television and radio broadcasting station. Kealy was interviewed on the sta­tion, which approximately 920,000 viewers watched. She compared the television seg­ments of the festival to the Miss America Pageant. 
Kealy and the other contest­ants spent much of the festival making public appearances and touring the country. During the last four days, each girl was given an escort to ward ofT the frenzied crowds of followers. 
Mumba was in 
nearly every 

newspaper in Ireland the next day. Kealy says the photographer contact­ed her with thanks for the career boost. 
While Kealy was not the ulti­mate winner of the Festival ­that title was taken by the Mayo Hose -she said she treasures the experience for the friends she made and the privilege to be a representa­tive of one of Ireland's most cherished love songs -and a chance to become the fabled "Hose of Tralee." 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
RESUME SUBMISSION DEADLINE TONIGHT 
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
Tuesday, September 13 Networking Reception Joyce Center, Monogram Room 4:00 -5:00 p.m. 
Tuesday, September 13 Career Fair Joyce Center Concourse 5:00 -9:00 p.m. 
Wednesday, September 14 Interview Day Flanner Hall 
8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. 
RESUME SUBMISSION DEADLINE TONIGHT, SEPTEMBER 6, MIDNIGHT FOR MORE INFO ACCESS GoiRISH THROUGH THE CAREER CENTER WEBSITE 
SPONSORED BY THE JOINT ENGINEERING COUNCIL, THE SOCIETY OF WOMEN ENGINEERS, THE CAREER CENTER, AND THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 


page 4 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday September 6, 2005 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Melllbers focus on Katrina fundraising 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
NewsWrirer 
Monday's Council of Representatives meeting focused on coordinating the University's reaction to Hurricane Katrina. 
"This is our response to the events in the southeastern United States," student body president Dave Baron said. "We have divid­ed Student Union responses, but this is a coordinated effort through the University." 
Student Union secretary Aly Baumgartner will serve as the Stadium Collection Coordinator for the fundraising effort to take place at the home football game against Michigan State University on Sept. 17. 
Baumgartner called for more student volunteers, as only one third of the 300 student collector spots are filled. She emphasized that volunteering during the two­minute donation collection process will not detract from any student's game experience. 
Volunteers must attend an infor~ mational meeting in the week before the game and a dress rehearsal immediately before­hand. 
"Please talk to your councils and get everyone to volunteer on the stadium collection night," Baron said. 
Student body vice president Lizzi Shappell was named the Student Groups Coordinator for hurricane relief donations. 
"We want to get everyone on the same page so groups are not solic­iting the same people for dona­tions," Shappell said. "We are try­ing to make sure that all monetary responses go to the greater Katrina fund, so we have one University total." 

The Council continued Peter Van Loon's approval as Judicial Council vice president of elections from last week. He was approved without opposition. 
Jim Grace was also approved without opposition to his post as the College of Science non-voting representative to the Academic Council. 
Grace, the current Carroll Hall senator, spent the summer on campus doing scientific research, Baron said. While here, he helped prepare the "From Football to Finals" presentation that educates freshmen about rape. He also helped create a student govern­ment alumni database. 
"Jim is always the last one to leave a meeting, and I like that about him," Baron said. 
Grace cited his experience switching from engineering to bio­logical science after his freshman year as enriching his perspective on "how the system works." His experiences as a summer research assistant also helped, he said. 
"I got a better picture of what [the system] is like, as student who was here over summer and then again normal year," Grace said. "Once you've worked in a lab for 40 hours a week doing nothing but squishing mosquitoes, you have a better perspective." 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group celebrates SMC events 
By ALLISON RIDER NewsWrirer 

The Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) meeting began Monday with much excitement due to several recent campus event suc­cesses -one of the biggest being last Wednesday's Student Activities Fair held in the Student Center. "Everyone who was there did a great job," student body president Kellye Mitros. "I got nothing but positive feedback." Seconding Mitros' congratu­lations, Student Activities Board (SAB) president Megan Cahill noted the fair's high turnout. 
But SAB is moving on to the larger issue of Hurricane Katrina, Cahill said, and working on a list of tentative events to benefit hurricane victims. Details will be con­
firmed and released in the near future. 
Student athletics commis­sioner Bridget Grall intro­duced an upcoming event organized by Saint Mary's and Notre Dame -the Relay for Life. 
"It's a big deal and should be really fun," Grall said. 
The walk, which benefits cancer patients and sur­vivors, will take place on Oct. 7 and 8 from 6 p.m. to 10 a.m. The Relay coordina­tors will be selling $5 lumi­nary bags that can be deco­rated and will line the track. 
Event organizers are also looking for cancer survivors from the campus community to lead the first lap. Students are encouraged to form teams of any size. 
The main goal is "just to get bodies over there [to the Relay]," Grall said. "We're not too worried about fundraisers." 
In other BOG news: 
+ 
Senior class president Lauren Condon said the Senior Dad's weekend will take place Oct. 30 through Nov. 2. Tickets are currently on sale. 

+ 
A BOG-sponsored Chi­cago bus trip will take place Saturday. The bus will leave LeMans circle by 8 a.m., leaving Chicago at 7 p.m to return to campus. Tickets will be available in the Student Center today.

+ 
Sophomore class presi­dent Colleen Ferreira said the 2005 "Incredibelles" T­shirt fundraiser was a great success. 


"It did very well -we almost sold out," said Ferreira, who mentioned that remaining shirts can be purchased in the bookstore. 
Contact Allison Rider at ariderO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Members of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance discuss the success of the recent SMC Activities Fair. The Board also created a tentative list of events to benefit victims of Katrina. 

$4 -32ttJ· Ofottdy Jfar.y Or.€J.gajt etv.6 1t~~ Oa9~~ l!r OfJIZIJij -f.rm.y #om~ qam~ 8a.m. 
.~f-tlfjQ,the 
....
····.a···u····.·ns 

•··.  .  ............  
Watch all Notre Dame Games­Most and Largest Screens in Town  Never a cover with Student ID GO IRISH  

2046 South Bend Ave Across from Martins Plaza 
272-1766 
MONDAY All food 1/2 price, $10.00 buckets, Monday Night Football on HDTV 
TUESDAY ND penny night, $1 off cover with student ID, OJ all night, 1 ¢ wells and drafts 
WEDNESDAY Live trivia night with cash prizes and free drinks, 1 to 8 people per team, 8:00p.m. to 10:00 p.m. Defending champs: ND law Legal Eagles. 69¢ bitty burger, 49¢ wings, $10.00 buckets 

THURSDAY 2nd Penny night. 1¢ wells and drafts, OJ plays hits all night long 
FRIDAY DJ till 3:00a.m., pre-game warm up 
SATURDAY Game day-Go IRISH. OJ after games, celebrate victory and boogie till dawn. ESPN game plan 
SUNDAY $1.50 burgers, dogs, fries and bottles. NFL Sunday tickets-14 screens. 


ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, September 6, 2005 
=====--=­

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Egyptian theater in flames, 29 dead 
CAIHO -Fin~ brokn out in an Egyptian tlwatPr during a erowdml pnrf'onnaneo latn Monday, causing hundn~ds of audinnen mom­h(~rs to llnn thn burning building in panic, a policn oflkial said. At lnast 29 pEHlple worn killnd. sonw from tlw 11arnns and some in thn PllSUing stamJWdP. 
About \,000 pnopln wrwn erowdnd into thn l.lwatf~r in Bnni Stwf. a city on l.hn Nile rivnr about hO 111 ilns south ol' Cairo, wlwn thn lim brokP out at about II :45 p.m., a police olli­dal said. It was brought undnr control by firn <:rPws. but dnstroyml the building. 
Thn oflkial. who dndinnd to be identified lwc.ausn lw was unauthorized to speak to tho nwdia, said initial invnstigations indicated tlw fin~ startnd aftnr lit candles being lwld by girls taking part in the play e<une into eon­tad with thnatPr curtains. 
Indonesian jet crash kills 14 7 
MI·:I>AN-An lndonE~sianjetliner slammed into a erowdPd neighborhood moments after a shaky taknoiT Monday and burst into !lamPs, killing 147 1wopln, inducting doznns on tlw ground. At lnast 15 passongors sur­vivnd, among tlwm an IS-month-old boy, oflidals said. 
Tlw Mandala Airlirws Boning 737-200 was !wading to Jakarta in ovon~ast wnatlwr when it plowNI into a row ol' houses 500 yards from tlw airport and skidded onto a busy road in this city on northnast Sumatra island. Witrwssns said some pnople were on tire as tlwy llnd thn wrnekagn. 
hrnfightnrs strugglnd to put out the blaze. whirh nnguii'Pd doznns of houses and at lnast I0 ears, in a midmorning rainstorm. It was tlw sixth major jot crash worldwide sineo Aug. I. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Military deaths escalate in Iraq 
As ol' Monday, Snpt. 5, 2005, at least IJlWJ nwmbers of tlw U.S. military have dind sincn the bnginning of' the Iraq war in March 2003, according to an Assoriatnd Pross count. At least 1,464 diml as a result of hostile action, accord­ing to the military's numbers. The ligures indudn fivn military civilians. 
Tho British military has reported 93 deaths; Italy, 26; Ukraine, 1S; Poland, 17; Bulgaria, 13; Spain, 11; Slovakia, three; El Salvador. Estonia, Thailand and the Nnthnrlands, two naeh; and Denmark, llungary. Kazakhstan and Latvia one dnath nach. 
Saturn's rings change over time 
LOS ANGELES -Nnw observations by the international Cassini spacecraft reveal that Saturn's trademark shimmering rings, which havn dazzled astronomnrs since Galilno's limn, have dramatically changed over just tho past 25 ynars. 
Among the most surprising findings is that parts of Saturn's innnrmost ring-the Dring -havn grown dimmnr since the Voyager spacncraft llnw by tho planet in 19S1. and a pieen of the D ring has moved 125 miles inward toward Saturn. 
While seinntists puzzln ovnr what caused tho changes, thnir observations could reveal sonwthing about the age and lifetime of the rings. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Roseland residents file suit 
IWSELAND, Ind. -Morn than 200 resi­dents of this small northern Indiana town are suing a town council member, daiming he has oppressnd them and should be removed from offke. 
The lawsuit against David Snyder filed Wednnsday in St. .Josnph Superior Court is the second by town wsidents who contend he has violatnd their eonstitutional rights. 
"lin's abusing his power," said Peter Agostino, one of the attorneys who tiled the ease. "There's a strong factual ease for removing him." 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Residents try to salvage possessions 
New Orleans 1nayor sets early death count at 10,000; Bush makes second visit 
Associated Press 

;, 

METAIRIE, La. -One ~ 
week after llu.rricann 
Katrina devastatnd the 
region, miles-long lines of 
vehicles crawled into 
JellfJrson Parish on Monday 
as residenl.:; worn allownd to 
rnturn to salvagn what was 
loft of their homes. New 
Orleans' mayor warned that 
10,000 people may have 
clind. 
President Bush began his 
seeond trip to the region 
since the storm hit, landing 
in Baton Houge late in the 
morning to start another 
inspection tour and eonsulta­
tions with federal and local 
ollieials. 
"All levels of the govern­
mont are doing the best they 
ean," Bush said in Baton 
Houge. "So long as any We is 
in danger, we've got work to 
do." 
Trallic began moving into the parish west of New Orleans at about 6 a.m. A curfew was set for 6 p.m., and msidents were told they eould stay until Wednnsday. 
Among those returning was Diane Dempsey, a 59­year-old retired Army lieu­tenant colonel who stopped at the water's edge less than a mile [rom the house where she grew up and where her aunt lives. 
''I'm going to pay someone to get me back there, any­before Katrina hit. Wide por­tum has picked up. I'm start­and-mscue and provide fi10d thing I have to do," she said, tions of Metairie and Kenner ing to see some critical tasks and water from an area sobbing while standing amid suffered heavy flooding, and being completed," he told from Mobile (Ala.) to thn east boats beached on Veterans authorities said thousands of NBC. side of New Orleans, up to 1­Highway. "A lot of these peo­homes were damaged. "The 17th Street canal is 20 in Mississippi. This is a ple built these houses antici­Some 400 to 500 police about or was about 84 per­pig-big piece of terrain. pating some llood water but oflicers from New Orleans' eent elosed in yesterday There are pnople there that nobody imagined this." 1,600 member force were afternoon. We have more need help. We will do the 
Most of the single-story unaeeounted for, Deputy troops arriving, so we're best we can to get it to bungalow homes in her Police Chiei'W.J. Hiley said. starting to make the kind of them." neighborhood had water A week after the storm, a progress that I kind of On Sunday, as authorities nearly to the rooflines. definitive death toll remained expected earlier." struggled to keep order, gun­Homes in the most exdusivfl elusive. New Orleans Mayor Army Lt. Gen. Hussel men opened lire on a ~troup neighborhood of the parish, Ray Nagin warned on NBC's Honore told ABC's "Good of contractors on a bridge, Old Metaire, had little struc­"Today" that "it wouldn't be Morning America" that rest:ues of stranded residnnL.:; tural damage but some of unreasonable to have fewer than 10,000 people continued and thn flood the worst 11ooding. Along 10,000" dead. remained in the city, based waters began to recede, rows of palatial, six-bedroom Despite the grim estimate, on aerial reeonnaissanee. leaving the htrisly tw;k of eol­homes, a few windows were he was more upbeat than in "This is not a city under leeting bodies. broken and the live oaks sur­previous days, when he siege," he added on NBC. The Times-Picayune, vived but the water rippled railed against the federal "This city needs help from Louisiana's largest newspa­up to front-door knobs. government and broke down the big people in America per, published an open letter 
The suburban parish, sobbing during a radio inter­and its technology to get to Bush, ealled filr the firing which ha.•;; 460,000 residents, view. back on its feet. We are of every ofl'ieial at the has been closed since a "We're making great l'oeused on the future. We F(~deral Emergency mandatory evacuation just progress now, the momen-have to llnish the search-Management Agency. 
Bush nominates Roberts to replace Rehnquist 
Associated Press the administration's sluggish Senate must take a eloser look at 
response to Hurricane Katrina and his new nomination. 
WASHINGTON -Seizing a his­his poll ratings had fallen to their "The stakes arn highnr and tlw toric opportunity to reshape the lowest point of his presidency. Senate's advicn and consent Supreme Court, President Bush "For the past two months mem­responsibility is even morn impor­swiftly chose conservative John bers of the United States Senate tant," said Senate Minority Leader Hobnrts as chief justiee Monday and and the American people have Harry Heid, D-Nev. Son. Edward M. weighed how to !ill another vacancy learned about the career and ehar­Kennedy, D-Mass .. expressed con­that could push the nation's highest acter of Judge Hoberts." Bush said. cerns about the eourt's balanee. court to the right on issues from "They like what they see." "Heplaeing two justiees at the abortion to aflirmative action. Hoberts' nomination, just two same time will have an enormous 
Polished and plainspoken, days after the death of Chief' Justice impaet on thn court and on the lives Hoberts had been on a likely track William II. Rehnquist, raised fears and liberties of all Americans for to be confirmed as an associate jus­among Democrats about a right­decades," said Halph Neas, presi­tice and it appeared Bush turned to ward shift as Bush fills two open­dent of the liberal advocacy group him for the top job to avoid an acri­ings on the nine-member eourt. People for the Amnriean Way, monious fight at a volatile moment. Democrats have been frustrated by which opposes Hoberts' nomina­Bush was on the defensive about Roberts' popularity and said the tion. 

~~------~------------~-------------------------------.,_,--~ 
page 6 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 6, 2005 
Kate Watson: 
3.65 GPA Road Tr1pper Sports Fanatic* Is Welcome Here 
Your life. You can bring it with you. Learn more about Kate and ten us more about vou
.. 

visit pwc.com/bringit 

*connectedthinking 


\~~ 2005 Pricewateri1nu,s~~Ccx)p&rs LLP. Ali ~·ights (jaserved. 1'Pdce::watt:!ti':()!.JS<:tCoopers<; r&f~~ra. 'to P'ric&waterhouseCcope!'S LLP {~1 D$:!a•Nare Hmit~~d iiability partnership) ca: as the cont(HXt requ!n~s, otil::;r rnt;n·,iJint flrrns of P~:cew~t~rhouooCcop~=;n~ tntern~h,."lnal Urni!t~·J, eacn oJ v·;hkm JS .a t\t'>p~raie <~n<J ;nd~:;pendent tJrlt~ty. "'connet~te<.HfHn~.ing is a tttide:nark of Pric6wah.=:;Ji)OUt:;tCtx.:pius U..P {US). \."/:.:-: ar~ ptouq to be an Affwrnativt:: Aotion ?J.nd Equ:.:~J Opportunity [rnploy~t: 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Tuesday, September 6, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 10 447 37 +0.00
}ones ' · 
·6t Some: Down: Composite Volume I ,449 I 80 I~ 1,641,759,350 

AMEX 1,680.04 -1.31 
NASDAQ ~~J4l.Q7 -6.83 
NYSf 7,531.13 -12.72 
S&PSOO 1,218.02 -3.57 
NIKK£1(Tokyo) 12,634.88 +0.00 
FTSf IOO(London) 5,337.80 +11.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ) -0.39 -0.15 38.77 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.66 -0.18 27.02 
INTEL CP (INTC) +0.08 +0.02 25.28 
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +0.40 +0.07 17.72 
ORACLE CORP(ORCL) +0.60 +0.08 13.39 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.00 +0.00 42.92 
I0-YEAR NOTE +0.00 +0.00 40.29 
5-YEAR NOTE +0.00 +0.00 38.39 
3-MONTH BILL +0.00 +0.00 33.77 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.90 67.57 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.00 448.50 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.30 81.08 
Excha Rates 

YEN 109.1400 
EURO 0.7974 
POUND 0.5422 
CANADIAN$ 1.1896 
IN BRIEF 
Dollar falls to rival currencies 
TOKYO -The dollar fell against the yen and the euro in Asian trading Thursday morning, compared to previous day levels, continuing to be weighed down by fears about the U.S. economy, higher oil prices and the devastation from Hurricane Katrina. 
Tlw dollar was trading at 110.74 yen in Tokyo late morning. down 0.68 yen from latn Wndnnsday and slightly higher than the 110.70 yen it bought in Nnw York later that day. The euro rose to $1.2:B5 from $1.2206 latn Wndnesday. 
Thn British plwnd traded at $1.1W21, up from $1. 7S42 late Tuesday. The dollar also fnll to 1.2542 Swiss francs, down from 1.2706, and 1.1 S9S Canadian dollars, down from 1.1924. 
Traders say the dollar is likely to remain wnak ahnad of additional U.S. economic data lwing relnased this week that may confirm worries about the American econo· my. The recent drop in U.S. Treasury yinlds is also rwgative for the dollar, thny say. 
Company ups pollution spending 
DES MOINES. Iowa -Cargill Inc. will spend about $130 million to upgrade pollu­tion control devices at 27 cllrn and oilseed plants in the Midwest to settle a clean air lawsuit. fednral oiTieials said Thursday. 
Under the snttlmnnnt, the food and agri­eullural products company has also agreed to pay $1.6 million in civil penaltins and spend anothnr $3.5 million on other envi­ronnwntal projects around the country. 
"Today's settlement is positive proof of the continued progress we are achieving in the grain industry. through the cooperative nnforeernnnt niTorts of federal, state and lo1~al agmH~ins," said Kelly Johnson, an aet­ing assistant attorney general with the .Justice Departnwnt. 
Cargill spokesman Bill Brady said the eom­pany had bnnn nngotiating the settlement for years after voluntarily disclosing the environ­nwntal problems. 
The agrnement announeed Thursday will rnsult in a reduction of about 30,000 tons of pollution a year, oflicials said. 
Corporations donate to Katrina victitns 
Wal-Mart, pharmaceutical industry give millions of dollars in cash and goods 
Associated Press 
Corporate America con­tinued giving millions in supplies and money Thursday to help victims of Hurricane Katrina, with donations ranging from diapers to 10,000 oven­fresh pizzas. 
The Chronicle of Philanthropy reported that Americans have given more than $93 million in aid to Katrina victims, including more than $27 million from corporations. 
The American Hed Cross had received more than $72 million from corpora­tions and individuals through Wednesday, and officials said donations were still pouring in. 
"It has been a steady stream today, both at headquarters, at the help­now number (1 SOO HELP­NOW) and our chapter sites around the country," Hed Cross spokesman Hyland Dodge said Thursday. 
Chronicle editor Stacy Palmer predicted the giv­ing would continue. 
"I think it got off to a somewhat slower start because it wasn't clear what the scope of the dis­aster was," she said. "Now that people are seeing what's going on, they're trying to mobilize as fast as Kimberly-Clark Corp. of $17 million to the group Pharmaceutical they can." Dallas donated $250,000 American Red Cross and R~search and 
The U.S. Chamber of and nearly $350,000 in Salvation Army and said its Manufacturers of America, Commerce said initial cor­products, including dia­stores were collecting said member companies porate donations would pers, baby wipes and bath­more. The world's largest had committed nearly $25 likely surpass $100 million. room tissue. retailer also created online million in medicines, med­
In Houston, volunteers United Health message boards where ical supplies and cash to used 30 jumbo ovens to Foundation of Minneapolis customers could post notes the relief efl"ort. cook 10,000 personal-sized dedicated $10 million to to family members from in­Thursday afternoon, a Papa John's pizzas for disaster relief efforts. The store kiosks. team of oflicials at Eli Lilly arriving Louisiana not-for-profit foundation is The service, launched & Co. loaded a private jet refugees. funded by Unitedllealth Thursday morning, had with antibiotics, tetanus 
"Everybody deserves a Group. 600 messages and 50,000 shots and insulin and took hot meal," Keith Sullins, UnitedHealth spokesman viewers by mid-afternoon. ofT for the dnvastatnd Gulf' president of Houston Pizza Mark Lindsay said his com­"We're trying to link peo­Coast. Venture, the city's largest pany hoped the announce­ple to lind their loved ones "Thosn arn aeutn, lifosav­Papa John's franchise, said ment would encourage and know they're OK," said ing products," said llr. in a statement. other businesses to donate Wal-Mart spokeswoman Greg Larkin, director of' 
Mortgage company resources. Melissa O'Brien. corporate hnalth serviens Freddie Mac and its foun­"We just want to make Many of the contribu­for the Indianapolis-based dation announced they sure that it was well-fund­tions so far have been from pharmaenutkal company. were donating $1 0 million ed and there's a pool of the pharmaeeutieal indus­Some donors havn opl~ra­to aid organizations. Coea­money there," he said. try. Billy Tauzin, a former tions in the all"netnd statns Cola Co. is donating $5 Bentonville, Ark.-based Louisiana congressman of Louisiana, Mississippi million. Wal-Mart has contributed who now heads the trade · and Alabama. 

Economic impact of Katrina worries investors 
11, 2001," said Paul McManus, senior The broadnr stoek indicators also
Associated Press vice president at Independence were lower. The Standard & Poor's 500 NEW YOHK -Wall Street finished a Investment LLC. "We have no idea what index slipped 3.57, or 0.29 pnreent, to difficult week lownr Friday as investors, the extent of the damage is down them, 1,21 S.02; and the Nasdaq eomposite restrained by uncertainty about tho oco­and we may not know until next week." indnx dosed down 6.S3, or <U2 pnr­nomie impaet of llurrkane Katrina, had Wall Street felt some relief from a cent, at 2,141.07. little reaction to a sharp dndinc in oil drop in oil prices, which fell after the Bonds edgnd highnr, with thn yinld on prices and less unemployment. Despite government and members of the Paris­the 1 0-ynar Treasury notn slipping to the week's fluctuations. the major based International Energy Agency said 4.02 percent from 4.03 pnrennt on indexes endnd with moderatn gains. they would tap reserves to counter dis­Thursday. Thn U.S. dollar was mixnd Thn market seesawnd in Friday's ses­ruptions to 90 pnrcent of oil production against othnr major eurrnncins in sion on news that unemployment in the Gull" of Mexico. Gasoline futures Europnan trading, while gold priens reaehed a four-year low, and as energy also ea..<;ed lor the first time this week. pulled back slightly. prices retreated on signs that allied A barrel of light crude sank $1.90 to Investors largely ignored a report nations will help cushion a U.S. oil settle at $67.57 on the New York from the Labor Department showing shortage. The numbers, however, were Mercantile Exehangn, where gasoline that the 169.000 jobs ernatnd in August shadowed by fears that Katrina's devas­futures dropped 22.5 eents to $2.1 S pnr worn fnwl'r than thn 190,000 predicted tation of the Gulf' coast eould trigger a gallon. by nconomists, evnn as thn job growth sharp economic downturn. At the dose of trading, the Dow Jones pushnd unmnploymnnt down to a low of "I consider this nvent as eritieal, if not industrial average fell 12.26, or 0.12 4.9 percnnt from 5 percent the month more economically damaging, as Sept. pereent, to 10,447.37. beforn. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, September 6, 2005 
case in front of me,"' Campbell ber, no matter what that mem­said. ber's views are, it sometimes
Roberts 
Since the situations presented tends to change the dynamics. to Roberts will be hypothetical, When Justice Thomas came on
continued from page 1 
Campbell said he could sidestep the Court, Justice Souter started is true that most of what he's the questions with the above voting difl'erently." doJ]e has been in his capacity as response. He also noted Roberts' religion a lawyer with a client, so you Garnett did not predict a dra­-Catholic. If Rehnquist was still can say that doesn't tell us nec­matic shift in the Court's deci­alive, the addition of Roberts essarily what he really thinks. sions with Roberts' confirmation, would have raised the Court's But you know, I think we know explaining that while Roberts composition to two-thirds as much about and the recently Catholics and Jews. what he really retired Justice "Through most of our history a thinks as we're "Even though he Sandra Day lot of Americans would have entitled to know." O'Connor have dif­been freaked out by the idea of
[Roberts] has a

Although ferent methodolo­more than one," Garnett said. Roberts does not large paper trail, it gies, they would "For a long time there was the have an extensive is a paper trail probably come to one Catholic seat and one Jewish history as a judge, the same decision seat." •
reflecting the views 

Garnett said the on most cases. But he emphasized that a nominee's back­ofhis clients." "He'll be much nominee's religion cannot pre­ground as a more likely to use dict a voting pattern. Rehnquist clerk in crisp, technical, "A lot of the work these judges 
Peri Arnold 

the early 1980s as very careful legal do, religion doesn't dictate the
Notre Dame political 

well as positions analysis," Garnett answer to it. Faith doesn't tell us 
science professor 

within the Reagan said. "Whereas what this antitrust statute and first Bush Justice O'Connor means. It doesn't tell us how administrations were telling. was often very much, 'We have a judges should go about inter­
"I think, actually, if you want lot of factors, let's balance them,' preting antitrust action," Garnett to know where Roberts is on a that kind of said. lot of stuff, Rehnquist is a good approach. Whatever their place to start," said-Garnett, who "There have "There have been opinion of Roberts, 
disagrees with the public's been some cases in the professors said 
cases in recent
demand to know Roberts' posi­recent years the confirmation tion on controversial issues. where I think they years where I think process would That hasn't always been part would have voted they would have play an important of American philosophy, he said. differently, but role in their class-
voted differently, 
"It's actually kind of a recent even if those cases es. idea that in order to judge a came up again, I but even ifthose "I personally nominee, you had to have tons don't think Roberts cases come up, I think [watching and tons of paper," Garnett said. would vote to over­the process]
don't think Roberts 
"For most of history it was, you rule them," he makes all the dif­know, someone's nominated, said. would vote to ference," probably a friend of the presi­Garnett said the overrule them." Campbell said. dent ... You had hearings, and in belief that Roe v. "We will definitely the hearings you asked some Wade, the land­discuss it. I do 
Richard Garnett 
questions, and the questions mark 1973 what I can to gave you the answers, and that Supreme Court Notre Dame bring in current was it. No one asked about how case protecting the law professor events, and that's you were going to rule in Roe v. right to abortion, a big one." Wade, how you were going to could be over-Arnold seconded rule in Miranda, whatever." turned under Roberts was an the importance of being a politi­
Campbell characterized the idea generated largely by Senate cally aware student. upcoming Judiciary Committee Democrats, since Roberts has "It's crucial to an education confirmation hearings as "a declined to comment. that college students be very bizarre little game they'll play Instead, Garnett believes the attentive to public affairs, includ­when the Senate will ask change will come in the dynam­ing reading a good newspaper Roberts to speak ... a Kabuki ics of the Court. on a regular basis,'' Arnold said. dance. "It's been awhile since the "The make-up of the Supreme 
"The general feeling is a Supreme Court had any new Court affects all of us." potential justice will simply say, members," Garnett said. "And 'No, I can't discuss this situation one thing we've seen is that Contact Maddie Hanna at unless I have the facts of the when the Court gets a new mem-mhannal@nd.edu 
ing by outlining three CLC committees that will each
CLC 

focus on a specific campus continued from page 1 issue -social concerns, cam­
pus grounds and structures 
and student voice and input. 

"We had mixed emotions The social concerns com-about Father Poorman's mittee will continue last response, Leito year's work on said. "Given the fact the diversity that we were ini-c o u r s e tially met with a lot requiremen·t of resistance, it's "We had mixed as well as great that we got emotions about tackle the something." issue of sex­
Father Poorman's 
In his letter, ism in male Poorman promised response. dorms. Baron to maintain current cited last soft drink and spring's
James Leito 
snack pricing for Morrissey
Judicial Council 
the next two years, Manor SYH 
president
lower laundry unofficially prices through the titled "Beach use of Domer Bros and Dollars and begin a Bikini Ilos" as rolling price adjustment plan an example of sexism. for vending prices. The campus grounds and 
"The main problem with structures committee will [using Domer Dollars to save focus on improving campus laundry money] is that the aesthetics -from flowers to card system isn't always in trash cans to drinking foun­place for that to be used," tains. The committee stems Leito said. from Leito's suggestion last 
Baron also updated mem­April that campus appearance bers on the creation of a be made a greater priority for diversity eourse requirement the council. for Notre Dame students. The The student voice and input Senate's minor-committee will ity affairs com­seek to have the mittee has student perspec­
"Father Jenkins 
been exploring tive represented
came to the
the possibility on a more wide­of making a minority affairs spread level. 
diversity class meeting last week, "Let's look 
a graduation throughout the
which is a good
requirement. University and 
"We did a lot sign that he thinks see where stu­a research diversity needs to dent voices can about it. Father be better repre­
be made a priority. " 
Jenkins came sented and be a to the minority bigger part of the affairs meeting Dave Baron administrative Ias t week , student body president process," Baron which is a good said. sign that he Baron told each thinks diversity needs to be committee to select its chair­made a priority,'' Baron said. person by the next meeting. 
The class would likely be a The council also approved double requirement -mean­its bylaws, which is a listing of ing it could be taken to fulfill its rules and responsibilities. a fine arts or literature requirement as well. Contact Mary Kate Malone at 
Baron concluded the meet-mmalone3@nd.edu 
Gas 
continued from page 1 
in the Gulf Coast, causing gas prices throughout the country to skyrocket, reaching $6 per gallon in some states. South Bend residents are suffering the high gas prices, paying as much as $3.29 in gas stations in the city and in surrounding areas. 
The high gas prices affect the normality in students' lives. 
Jessica Binhack, a jun­

ior at Saint "/have hit my limit Robinson Center, Mary's, lives on approximately
on how much I will 

cam pus but three miles from 
pay for gas. " 

keeps her 1999 campus. She also M e r c u r y drives the seven Mountaineer at Brian Stein miles to Prairie Saint Mary's for Vista, a local ele­
Notre Dame student 

social purposes. Having to pay almost $60 to fill her tank, Binhack admits that gas pdces have "definite­ly affected" how much she drives. 
"If prices weren't so high, I would go off-campus more," said Binhack. 
Binhack is not the only stu­dent frustrated with the gas prices. Also feeling the strain are off-campus students or students who need their cars to commute to off-campus employment. 
Brian Stein, a senior at Notre Dame, resides on Washington St. and commutes to campus six or seven times every week. Even after severely restricting his car use, Stein pays approximately $8 each week commuting to campus. 
"I have hit my limit on how much I will pay for gas," Stein said. 
Saint Mary's senior Mary 
Buehl lives on campus but needs her car to travel to her off­campus work study job at the 
mentary school, to complete her required student teaching course­work. Buehl uses 
her 1999 Ford Escort at least five times per week, using it three days to travel to work and twice to teach. Though frustrated with using almost one half gallon of gas every day completing her required coursework, Buehl has not been able to organize a suc­cessful carpool. 
Some students, however, have not allowed the prices to 
impede their lives. Dozens of enthusiastic students headed east over the weekend to sup­port the Irish football team in their opening game against the University of Pittsburgh. 
For some students, the more than six-hour drive meant spending nearly $100 on gasoline, though many stu­dents were not deterred by the high cost. 
Senior Kevin Sommers and three friends split the $50 it took to fuel the tank of his Ford Grand Marquis to and from Pittsburgh. 
Like Sommers, Bridget Green, a junior at Saint Mary's, spent nearly $75 on gas over the weekend, paying an average of $3.56 per gal­lon, she said. 
While Sommers and Green represent the dozens of eager Irish fans willing to trail the team out of state, both agree that they would definitely reconsider attending another out-of-state game due to the cost of gas. 
Many people in South Bend are frustrated with the high prices, as they cannot afford to continue their daily rou­tines. For some, the frustra­tion lies in the less frequent trips to the mall or to their favorite bar and more trips to the ATM. 
Contact Lauren Lavelle at llavelO1@saintmarys.edu 

Monday, September 6, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
... "The people I work with are just great. Although
c1t1groupJ 

they demand a lot from me, they are encourag-p ing and helpful and-most important of all­goad friends and fun to work with." 
CORNELIA GIBRAND, ANALYST FIXED INCOME SALES & TRADING 

Investment Banking 

meet us... 
Sales & Trading 

Please join us for our company presentation: DATE: Tuesday, September 6th, 2005 VENUE: Morris Inn, Notre Dame Room TIME: 7:00-9:00pm 
apply online at www.oncampus.citigroup.com 
©2005 Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Member SIPC. CITIGROUP and the Umbrella Device are trademarks and service marks of Citicorp or its affiliates and are used and registered throughout the world. Citigroup Global Mar·kets Inc. and Citibank are affiliated companies under the common control of Citigroup. Citibank and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. are equal opportunity employers M/F/0/V. 
page 10 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, September 6, 2005 
Supplies
.. 

continued from page 1 
ous student organizations con­vened in a forum to organize and combine independent hurri­cane relief efforts into a single, University-wide strategy. 
Student body vice president Lizzi Shappell said the main goal of the meeting was to unify student efforts. 
"We don't want to compete against each other for dona­tions," she said. 
Shappell said 

students are wel­"We [student fundraising to aid hurricane vic­
come to conduct 
government groups] 

tims. efforts until don't want to Masses held 
individual relief 
Thursday, Sept. this week at both
compete against 

the Basilica of the
15. After this 
each other for 

date, however, all Sacred Heart and 
personal and donations. " in each of the res­organizational ini­idence halls will 
serve as opportu­tiatives should be 
Lizzi Shappell 

nities for students
redirected toward 
student body vice 

the University­to donate money sponsored stadi­president to the University's 
urn collection slat­ed for the Michigan State home football game on Sept. 17. 
Student Union secretary Aly Baumgartner said the University was seeking a sub­stantial number of student vol­unteers to assist in th'e collec­tion of money during the foot­ball home opener. 
"We are looking for 300 to 450 students to help out during 
the Michigan State game," she said. "We have 100 right now." 
Baumgartner said volunteers will have a "dress rehearsal" the morning of the game to go over logistics for the mass collection. Money will be col­lected from spec­tators in between the funds, while the Congregation of the Holy Cross in Louisiana and members of the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) in devastated areas will each receive 25 per­cent of all money raised. through the University. 
There are 25 ACE instructors in Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama, ACE director John Staud told The Observer Tuesday. 
In addition to money donated through the stadium collection, individual organizations and groups on cam­pus are fervently 
main collection 
fund. 
A representative from the Center for Social Concerns unveiled additional relief plans at Monday's forum, including a solidarity luncheon fundraiser for Gulf Coast victims and an educational conference to dis­cuss future implications of the hurricane. 
Shappell said the student gov­ernment opened a collection 
"We are looking for 300 to 450 students to help out during the Michigan State game. 
Aly Baumgartner student union secretary 

table on the first floor of LaFortune Monday to ensure students a con­stant opportunity to donate money to the University's main fund through Sept. 15. The table will be available for donations from 10 a.m. to 2 a.m. daily. 
Snite 
continued from page 1 

"It was fantastic," Sandusky said. "It blew me away." 
The professor let his long­kept secret slip to his son, who throughout the rest of the trip and in the following months back in the United States pestered and encour­aged him to make it a reali­ty. 
Once he 

Sandusky then began searching for models to use in the re-interpretation of the work, which would feature modern American locals and modern American dress. 
"It is an American depiction of an Italian depiction of bib­lical stories," he said. "I was looking for a lot of bearded people because a lot of these people are bearded." 
Several neighbors and friends allowed Sandusky to pho­tograph and depict them in 
resolved to pur­"It was fantastic. It the paintings. 
sue the project, Most of the faces
blew me away ...
Sandusky did seen in the work,
It's an American 
not stray far howevtr, are from the origi­depiction ofan those of recog­nal frescos pro­nizable Saint
Italian depiction of
duced over a Mary's and Notre
biblical stories." 
60-year span by Dame adminis­three major trators and fac­artists, ulty. These
Bill Sandusky 
Masaccio, include College
SMC art department
Masolino and Filippino Lippi. He asked then senior Jennifer Trachy Hakes and 1998 alumna Jill Feller to work with him. Titling it "The Brancacci Project Phase One," the trio applied for a SISTAR grant for funding. 
"I thought it would be good to have three people because three people did the origi­nal," Sandusky said. 
He also applied for a faculty research grant from Saint Mary's and arranged for Notre Dame's Snite Museum of Art to display the paintings after their completion. 
Once their proposal was accepted, Sandusky, Hakes and Feller started to copy one cycle, or the upper register, of the two-tiered work. They built large canvases -12 in all -to scale and then pro­jected the original paintings onto them in order to mirror the figures' size and position­ing. 
President Carol Mooney, University President emeri­
tus Father Theodore Hesburgh and Saint Mary's dean of faculty Pat White. 
"I have done a
Sandusky, his hopes to find 
wife, his two number of large other venues to sons, Hakes paintings, but display them. and Feller also "I do want it to
nothing this large 
appear in the travel around paintings. and nothing this nationally," he 
While the time consuming. " said. "I am look­three artists ing for some worked on the shows."
Bill Sandusky 
painting at dif­Eventually he ferent times SMC art department would like to sell 
she would retouch some of his. 
"It was kind of difficult, but it worked out in the end real­ly well," Hakes said. 
Once, Hakes recalled, a heavy Midwestern storm hit South Bend when the studio windows had been left open. Winds punched a canvas straight through an easel, forcing them to repaint it. 
Sandusky said he worked on the proje.ct up until the very day staff from the Snite came to pick it up this sum­mer. 
"I have done a number of large paintings, but nothing this large and nothing this time consuming," Sandusky said. 
Turnout and reaction at the exhibit opening on June 26 was outstanding, Sandusky said. 
"Reaction has been incredi­ble," he said. "The opening was a great success. There 
were  over  270 people  in  
attendance. I've gotten  no  
negative comment."  

The paintings will remain at the Snite until Sept. 16, Sandusky said, after which he 

over a two-year period, they sometimes found themselves bumping elbows. Hakes, who spent eight weeks in the summer of 2003 on the project, recalled Sandusky coming into the studio in the evenings and repainting some of her work. The following day, she said, 
the paintings, possibly to Notre Dame. But first 
he wants to paint the lower register, or what would be Phase Two, of the original Chapel. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at Onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

the first and sec­ond quarters. 
"They did this [type of collabora­tive effort] right after Sept. 11, and they raised about $280,000 -we're hoping this will be as successful," Baumgartner said. 
Money donated to Notre Dame's Hurricane Katrina col­lection account will be dispersed into three main organizations. Shappell said Catholic Charities USA will receive 50 percent of 
Student govern­ment will not be collecting cloth­ing and other 
supplies, Shappell said. However, student groups are encouraged to organize these drives independently and send those efforts to the appropriate charities. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 
S!z~lefie (Sizzlelini®)­
OnTuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95! A sizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
BJ-Iefie (Bellini)­
A frosty raspberry, green apple or peach Italian work of art for $2! 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays) ­Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelini® Bellini Tuesdays! 

lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 




Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. *Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
Tuesday, September 6, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page II 
Gas prices slolV holiday travel 
Stations post 30 percent higher price per gallon over Labor Day weekend 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Labor Day traf­fic slowod around the country as drivers lucky to lind gas stations open paid over 30 percent more than bdore Hurricane Katrina disruptod Gulf Coast refinery and pipeline operations a week ago. 
Pump prices are starting to lnvnl ofT. but analysts say the dramatic rise in gasoline costs has foreed consumers to begin rethinking overything from vacation travel plans to how much they can afl'orcl to spend for food, dothing and 
"I don't see it as

rnstaurant m11als. ed both sets of 
Drivers paid an the end-ofsummer grandparents avorage of' about nearby.
blowout like it used 

$3.20 a gallon for "The kids just
to be."

unlead1~d regular don't understand. on Monday, up Their day is not $1.35 from a year Michael Forsche set by what gas ago, and 75 eents prices are,"
Ohio State Highway 

more than they Robert Smith said,
Patrol

did before the hurricane, accord­ing to Handy Bly, dirodor of community relations for AAA Auto Club South. 
The federation of' motor dubs had originally forecast that 34.5 million Americans would travel 50 milos or more this Labor Day wonkend., But Bly thinks that nstimat11 was too high as drivers were spooked by the spike in gas pricos and reports of short­ages at gas stations in midwest­orn, southern and northeast states. 
"We fool very certain flu rrieane Katrina will bring this Ioriginal estimate! lower," Bly said. 
In <;eorgia, a moratorium on gas taxes and a slight dip in wholesale prices helped level fuel prices to an average of $3.05. On Friday, Gov. Sonny Perdue ordered a month-long moratorium on state gas taxes and called legislators into a spe­cial session Tuesday to ratify the decision. The governor's order suspends Georgia's 7.5 cents-a­gallon exdse tax and 4 percent sales tax on gasoline until the end of September. 
Hobert and Claire Smith of Hockford, Ill., had planned to take their four children to an amusement park, but the high price of gas kept them from making the drive of over one hour. Instead, they visit­
adding that, on 
Labor Day morn­
ing, his eight-year old had "this long face" of disap­pointment. 
Ohio State Highway Patrol Sgt. Michael Forshe in Zanesville said trallk was definitely down on central Ohio's interstate, 1­70, this weekend. "I don't see it as the end-of-summer blowout like it used to be," he said. 
Higher gas prices may have also slowed sales in shopping malls this Labor Day weekend. 
Michael Solomon, who owns and operates Great American Cookie stores in malls in Kentucky, Nevada, Indiana and West Virginia, said his weekend sales were "well below expecta­tions." 
"It started Friday when all the gas prices jumped up," said Solomon. Store managers in West Virginia and Kentucky also told him local gas stations were out of gas, which he assumes caused some consumers to stay at home rather than venture to malls. 
"It was slower than usual. People spent the same amount of money. It just felt like there were less people," said Solomon, who fears that he may have to raise his prices if high energy costs boost what he pays for freight and other services. 
Much of the· rise in gas prices stems from major disruption in how oil and gas are produced and delivered in the U.S. Gull' coast states. 
These facilities were responsi­ble for producing 1.4 million barrels of oil each day, equal to what is imported from Saudi Arabia each day, and 80 percent of that, or some 1.2 million bar­rels, was halted because of Hurricane Katrina, according to John Felmy, chief economist at the American Petroleum Institute. 
At one point, nearly 95 per­cent of the production from these Gulf Coast facilities was disrupted last week. 
The magnitude of the damage to the Gulf Coast facilities and the time it takes to repair them may have an impact on the overall U.S. economy, warned Chris Low, chief economist at FTN Financial. 
Low recalled that two years ago, energy related costs like gas at the pump or heating oil for homes made up about 4 per­cent of household budget. That had risen to 5.5 percent prior to Hurricane Katrina and is likely to rise further, he said. 

Bush, Louisiana Gov. clash on Katrina aid 
Associated Press 
BATON ROUGE -Like estranged in-laws at a holiday gathering, President Bush and Louisiana Gov. Kathleen Blanco kept their distance as both toured a relief center for storm victims Monday. At their next stop, the Republican pres­ident kissed the Democratic governor on the cheek, but it wasn't dear whether they had made up. 
State and federal officials aro all facing public criticism for a slow response to the crisis. Behind the scenes, eaeh sug­gests the other is to blame. 
In front of the cameras dur­ing Bush's visit to the Gulf Coast states on Monday, the president and Blanco said little to each other, focusing instead on thanking relief workers. 
"I know I don't need to make any other introduction other than 'Mr. President,"' Blanco said tersely, turning the micro­phone over to Bush after prais­ing emergency management officials during a stop with Bush at an emergency opera­tions center. 
"This is one of these disas­ters that will test our soul and test our spirit, but we're going to show the world once again that not only can we survive but we will be stronger and better for it," Bush said after taking the microphone. 
Blanco late Monday sought to tone down suggestions of a rift. 
"We'd like to stop the voices out there trying to create a divide," she said. "There is no divide. We're all in this togeth­er. Every leader in this nation wants to see this problem solved." 
Bush echoed Blanco's praise for rescue workers. "I hope that makes you feel good to know you have saved lives," Bush said, promising state, local and federal oflicials that he would fix anything that isn't going right. "This is just tlw beginning of a huge ell'ort," he said. 
The president, looking choked up as he finished his brief remarks, nodded at Blanco and kissed her on the cheek. Slw nodded back and both left the podium, headed for separate spots in the crowd. 
Blanco has refused to sign over control of the National Guard to the federal govern­ment and has turned to a Clinton administration oflicial, former Federal Emergency Management Agency chief .James Lee Witt, to help run relief ell'orts. 
Blanco was not told when Bush would visit the state, nor was she immediately invitod to meot him or travel with him. Blanco's ofl'ice didn't know Bush was coming until told by reporters. Bush spokesman Scott McClellan said the White I louse reached out to Blanco's office on Sunday, but didn't hear back. White I louse stall' in Louisiana spoke with Blanco early Monday, he said. 
Making his third visit to the Hurricane Katrina-ravaged states, Bush stopped first at the Bethany World Prayer Centor, a huge hall half covered with pallets and half filled with din­ing tables. Blanco visited at the same time, but she and Bush kept apart as they walknd around talking to peoplo. 

Everything you need for high-speed Internet access. 
Sign up for the SBC Student Plan SBC Yahoo! DSL Express 
+ 

Your Local Access Line 
as low as 
$ 
75* 

a month for a 9-month term! 
•other monthly t"harges apply. 

Taxes, other charges and the Federal Universal Service Fund cost-recovery fee extra. for details of additional charges, restrictions and requirements, caiiJ-866-472-7965 toll-free or visit sbc.com/u. SBC, the SBC logo and other SBC product names are trademarks and/or service marks of SBC Knowledge Ventures, l.P. and/or its affiliates. All other trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners. ©lOOS SBC Knowledge Ventures, l.P. All rights reserved. IN 
~ ~ -~------------~--------~~ 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Tuesday, September 6, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Where have all our taxes gone? 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
Si'ORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAI'HICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGIIIG EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631·5323 obsnews.l@nd..edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY's DESK smc.1 @nd.edu PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (57 4) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions duough letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information: 
Qrustiom regarding Observerpolides should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Hdninger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
~ Obu-rver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during e:wu and vacil.tion periods. A subscription to The Obsetvdr l$ $100 fur ooc: at:adtmk: year: $55 for one semener. 
11w Ob:;crvcr is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send addt'C$5 correction& to: 
Nom: Dam~ IN 46156-0779 Th< Db.crva 
Periodical postage paid at Notte O;um P.O. Bo• 779 
and additional mailing offiCoo. 024 South Dining Hall 
Noue Dame:, IN 465$6.-0779 
The Ohsc:rvcr is a member of the Assodatc:d Press. AJJ reproduaion rights are reserved. 

As the Web site of Sen. Evan Bayh (D-Ind.) proudly proclaims: "Senator Evan Bayh today announced Senate passage of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, which includes $3 million that he fought for to bring Purdue's Center for Advanced Manufacturing (CFAM) one step closer to becoming a reality." 
What a true American hero! Sen. Bayh has fought long and hard to get money for the CFAM, and finally succeeded when he cornered off $3 mil­lion ... of a defense bill? 
2005 has been a great year for Congress. For the fiscal year, there have been over 13,900 pork barrel projects crammed into 13 appropria­tions bills. According to the organi­zation Citizens Against Government Waste, this is an increase of 31 per­cent over last year's total. For the uninformed, pork barrel projects are projects funded by federal money that are intended to benefit the con­stituents of a particular politician, in return for votes or campaign contri­butions. 
The 2005 Homeland Security Appropriations Act alone contained 64 major pork projects, totaling $1.7 billion. The Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Tsunami Relief (H.R. 1268) passed the Senate Appropriations Committee with $55 million for wastewater treatment in Desoto County, Miss., and $25 million for the Fort Peck Fish Hatchery in Montana. 
Maybe I'm just cynical, but how do either of these very expensive proj­ects even remotely relate to :'Emergency," "Defense," "War on Terror" or "Tsunami Relief'? 
2005 saw a Republican president a~d a Republican-controlled Congress, which means that none of these pork projects could have passed without the seal of approval of both. This is a very disturbing fact. 


My father always assured me that the Republican Party was the party ofsmaller government. However, after a record-breaking $427 billion deficit in 2005, it is impossible for me to understand how anyone can believe this lie any longer. In fact, nowhere in the Grand Old Party's 2004 platform is there any mention of limiting the growth of government. It is quite the opposite. 
By the year 2004, actual yearly growth in non-military spending (which means we're ignoring the costs of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan) had risen 6.2 percent. Adjusting for inflation, George W. Bush's government has increased spending at twice the rate of Bill Clinton's. 
Yes. Bill Clinton. 
The Republican Party is no longer the party of limited or small govern­ment and will never be that party again. It is now the executive arm of the Project for the New American Century (founded by Donald Rumsfeld), which believes that American military dominance of the world will eventually lead to an ill­defined global Pax Americana. The neoconservatives that now control the GOP are proponents of the wel­fare-warfare state at its worst. 
To be clear, I am not a fan of "pale­oconservatism," nor am I extolling· the non-virtues of the Left. I simply recognize that there is an over­whelming "conservative" presence on this campus, and I believe it is ill­informed. 
The neoconservative movement began within the ranks of pro-war socialists in the 1940s. Strongly influenced by the New Deal (as well as anti-Stalinism), many became dis­illusioned with the "New Left" of the 1960s because of its anti-Vietnam War, seemingly unpatriotic positions. Toss in some admiration for mili­tarism and the "big stick" foreign policy of Theodore Roosevelt, and you have the recipe for such individ­uals as Paul Wolfowitz, Dick Cheney, Richard Perle, William Bennett (all members of the PNAC) and, of course, President George W. Bush. All of these individuals are promi­nent members of either the GOP or the Bush administration. 
Now I'm going to ask every Republican reading this article to put his/her money where his/her mouth is. Are you in favor of constitutional­ism, free trade, limited government and liberty? If so, then you are in the wrong party. 
Afthe time of the writing of this column, the national debt clock reads $7,939,664,349,738.56, which is an almost inconceivable amount of money. By the time this article is printed, however, it will have risen by millions of dollars. American tax­payers can ill-afford the hefty bills of Republican and Democratic politi­cians, who continually overstep the boundaries that are set forth in the US Constitution. There is absolutely no reason that Federal money should be spent on the Greater Syracuse Sports Hall of Fame. Federal money should not be thrown at Pennsylvania's Inner Harmony Foundation and Wellness Center, nor should it be wasted on a Therapeutic Horseback Riding Program at Lady 
B. Ranch in Apple Valley, Calif. 
None of these programs is neces­sary, and the cost of these projects is steep. Someone must stand up to the bureaucrats in Washington, who obviously have complete disregard for the proper role of government. 
The Republicans will not do it. The Democrats will not do it. Who will? 
Scott Wagner is the president of the brand new College Libertarians Club and writes political satire for the Web site The Enduring Vision. He can be contacted at swagnerl@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
Kate Antonacci Kate Gales Maddie Hanna Chris Khorey Mary Kate Kyle Cassily What are you doing Malone Scene 
to help Hurricane 
"People only see
Marcela Berrios Mark 

what they are prepared to see."
Katrina relief? 
Viewpoint Bemendenter Becca Rosswurm 

Ralph Waldo Emerson American poet, philosopher 
Graphics 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Kelly MacDonald 

at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 6, 2005 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Race on the levee 
''I'm not surn I'm going to get out of here alive," said surface when it becomes clear that the state left them to Private property is not inviolable and can be seized so Canadian tourist Larry Mitzel. ''I'm seared of riots. I'm die there in the rotting ruins of submerged ghettoes? that others may live. But all too often under capitalism, scared of the locals." These words, from the coverage of Around Notre Dame's sheltered campus there has private property and corporate privilege become sacro­the New Orleans disaster in Friday's The Observer been a sort of quiet disgust with the supposedly "uncivi­sanct, far more valuable than the lives of poor people, ("Chaos plagues city in storm aftermath") could have lized" behavior of the black survivors of Katrina. People especially poor black people. When I see black families been utternd by a British colonist who strayed too far have come up to me saying, "There are thugs firing at taking food from a grocery store in order to survive, I away from his outpost and found himself among the the rescue workers! It looks like a Third World country." see a measure of human dignity, self-governninnt and natives at sundown. This is not simply an understand­Again, the colonial gaze ... armed black the will to live triumphing in the face of able filar of violence; it is the racist's irrational fear of men: "the horror, the horror." For a campus adversity. the "black mob." It is tho fear that outfits the National oriented towards benevolent service work The machinery of racism is at play here
"It's not like 

Guard with human hunting licenses in the form of in far away Africa-helping those poor, in a another way as well: because the lead­"shoot-to-kill orders" against the "thugs" and "looters." helpless beings "over there," it is a revela­white people have ers of U.S. official society belinve Arab peo­You better bet that if Notrll Dame was hit by a tornado, tion and perhaps an embarrassment to see never been ple are also unfit for self-government, there would no shoot-to-kill orders against the Irish. that Third World conditions exist right here Louisiana National Guardsmen and women
violent or savage,
The media this week is saturated with images of black in the American City on the I Iii!. are functioning now as traffic cops in
to say the least." 
people, dispossesslld and angry, shouting at those armed As for the "thugs" and their "looting," of downtown Baghdad while their own homes soldi!lfs. Kanye West summed it up well at a benefit con­course I believe that it is evil, fool behavior are destroyed and their own familins arn cert for vietims of llurricane Katrina: "I hate the way to lire at rescue workers. Or to rape people washed away in the toxic floodwatnrs. they portray us in the media. You see a black family, it in the Superdome. Tinisha Green, one of the Such are the avoidable tragedies of says, "They'm looting." You see a white family, it says, refugees, put it well: "It was like demons were here last Empire. "They're looking for food." NBC execs openly admitted night." This bnhavior must be stopped, and I am sure I'm taking a class now on the llobrnw Bible. and as I thlly would have censored West's insight if they had got­there are sane people among the crowd who have tried read tho news I have the uncanny l'noling that I am ten a chance. So much for democracy in to step in and do so. Any ·community, regard­watching Old Testament nvcnts unfold in real-time. the U.S.A. less of race, class or ethnicity, will have its Citizens of Babylon, subjects of tlw Pharaoh that is U.S. 
Tlw al'tMrnath of llurrieane Katrina is "As for the share of heroism and its share of savage Empire, we ought to pause and pray for tho future. rapidly beeoming a flash point on the individualism when it comes to a time of cri­Then we must act-not only to help the victims of 
'looters,' I have to
issuo of raco. It is bringing to the fore the sis. It's not like white people have never been Katrina, but also to fight against tho systmn of white tension that nxists just below the skin of ask what exactly violent or savage, to say the least. What the supremacy that Jell them to die. This system is as mortal "civil publie discourse," that stoic code of is wrong with media has failed to emphasize so far are the as the Gulf Coast oil"rigs that onee fed it. Ev1~ry Biblical manners and false peace covering up the stories of everyday black people helping each empire that failed to pursue social justice fnll to a mix of 
looting in the first
lngaey of 500 years of institutionalizod other, risking their own lives to save others. ecological disaster and military chaos. The situation at raeism and white supremacy in this coun­place?" As for the "looters," I have to ask, what the Superdome in New Orleans is undoubtedly reverber­try. We do well to remember that the pos­exactly is wrong with looting in the first ating in Detroit, Harlem, Watts, Nairobi, Capetown. sibility of raco riots hung over New place? St. Thomas Aquinas, centerpiece of Aeheh. It's adding one more layer to the sedimented Orlnans before the hurricane hit. traditional Catholic moral theology, points out that it is anger of centuries. Institutionalized racism has hnld 
So now, how could this racial tension not surface absolutely justified for hungry and naked people to take strong for 500 years, but there may come a limn when when it becomes evident to the rest of the world that food and clothing from the rich in times of erisis (and of the levees finally break. hundrods of thousands of black people in New Orleans course, one could argue that for many working class have bonn living in segregated neighborhoods with lousy people in New Orleans, the times of crisis began long Matthew Hamilton housing, lousy infrastructure, easily prone to disposses­before Katrina). The goods of the world, created by God, Graduate srudenr sion when the levees finally break? How could it not are meant to serve the common human community. Sepr. 4 
Learning from Katrina 
The day the city of New Orleans and much of the Gulf Coast was demolishnd by a category four hur­ricane, I was in class. As water engulfnd the birthplace of jazz, I was wading City of God and the opie of Gilgamesh. The news in The Observer that Monday and most of the following week was all football tickets and Frosh-0. As my fellow citizens in Mississippi and Louisiana were sufl'ering, were dying, were going without food and water, I was cheeking my e-mail and lazily drinking a cup of coffee. 
Catastrophes such as Hurricane Katrina must make us wonder what on earth we are doing with our very privileged lives. Why does any of this matter? What is the purpose of a liberal education'? Why, finally, are we here? 
If these four years are just about going to football games and finding 
a. better paying job after gradua­tion, then, in the face of this disas­ter, we ought to feel indicted. 
Katie Perry wrote in her Inside Column (a few days after the storm) that Notre Dame students have rea­son to bn cocky. Going to Notre Dame is the fulfillment of a lifelong dream. Go ahead and swagger, she writes. As if just attending Notre Dame as an undergraduate is enough of an aecomplishment to build a whole life upon. You've joined the club. You've paid your dues. You're smart enough and good enough. You bought the sweatshirt. You're okay. 
Think again. Going to Notre Dame cannot bn an end in and of itself. So you jump1~d through a lot of hoops to get here. What now'? What is the purpose of your studies'! What is the purpose of your life? Why not morn practical pursuits? Thousands of people are feared dead in 
Louisiana. How are you spending your days? 
It's useless for us to feel guilty about our educations. It may, how~ ever, prove useful for us to ques­tions their ends. Is your education direeted towards a good? Is it form­ing you morally, intellectually or artistically? Is it habituating you in critical thinking and ethical action? Does it alter how it is that you think and live? 
Are we in the business of the transformation of self and the serv­ice of others, or is this just camp ND? How can we share what we have been privileged to learn with others and with the world? How can we be sufficiently grateful or generous good? 
In the wake of this unparalleled natural disaster our nation is imploding along racial and class lines. People are furious that state and federal governments have not done more to evacuate and also to aid the poor and predominantly African American citizens of New Orleans. 
Here in South Bend, we live an extremely divided community in terms of race and class. We do serv­ice projects all over the world, but only a minority of students venture into the neighborhoods and streets just blocks south of campus. 
Terrible things happen. Hurricanes take out towns. Innocent people languish and die. We cannot explain suffering, but perhaps, we can learn from it and let it change our hearts and minds. 
Anna Nassbaum senior Off-Campus Sepr. 4 
U.S. tests European relations 
I have followed from my perch in France, with slight bemusement and not a little dis­appointment, the exchange of views of for­eign support for the tragiC hurricane and its aftermath in the Gulf. 
Not only have European countries replied very quickly to the disaster with offers of help, but they, and their public opinion, were rather offended at being publicly rebuffed by the Bush Administration. President Bush stated in a press conference late last week that America can take care of this crisis on its own, that it has the resources and the wherewithal to take care of its own. 
Luckily the European Union and individ­ual countries nevertheless organized dis­cretely and held their preparations in reserve -most notably the French with military and humanitarian capacities, which it has already in the Caribbean (Martinique). I say luckily, because this morning driving into work and listening to the French news radio, I learned that late last night Washington phoned up the European capitals (ahem, instead ofjust Brussels which is supposed to co-ordinate EU actions) and said that they would aeeept their offers of support after all. The news reports indicated that the first planes were already on their way with tents, food, water and vehides. 
The Bush Administration has been a severe test to U.S.-European relations, but the deep and emotional bonds betwmm Europeans and Americans can and will out­last this Administration. 
Mary Ann Hennessey-Gopaul Srrasbourg, France Class of 1990 Sepr. 5 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Tuesday, September 6, 2005 
RECIPE TIPS 
Late sum.m.er burger feast 
um. By MAUREEN MALLOY Recipe courtesy of ivillage.com. Scene Writer 
Sweet Potato Fries 
Labor Day may remind us that sum­Extra-virgin olive oil, for light coat­mer is coming to an end, but that's no ing reason you can't enjoy one more burg­6 large sweet potatoes, peeled and or before you unpack the sweaters. If sliced like steak fries you didn't have time to barbeque yes­2 teaspoons kosher salt terday (since our school sometimes 1/4 packet taco seasoning mix forgets that good burgers and cold beers are a better way to celebrate our Preheat oven to 425 degrees country than going to class), grill up Fahrenheit. some of these all-American dishes to In a large mixing bowl, drizzle oil enjoy for dinner. The bacon-and­over the potatoes and toss to coat. Add cheese filled burgers have plenty of salt and taco seasoning mix and toss. flavor but would definitely benefit Place sweet potato fries in one even from a generous topping of grilled layer onto a baking sheet. Keep space onions. Sweet potato fries are a nice between them so they get crispy on all change from traditional French fries sides. Bake in batches. Place .into the and can be popped in the oven while oven for ten minutes, then flip them the burgers are gri!Iing. Any chilled over. Place back in for ten more min­drink goes well with the burgers and utes. They should be soft on the inside fries, but my favorites are icy cold and browned on the outside. Let them margaritas which you can make with a cool for five 'minutes before serving. mix. Round off the meal with a simple You may substitute baking potatoes for dessert to cool off your taste buds, sweet potatoes. However, when plac­such as vanilla ice cream topped with ing back into the oven, change cooking fresh berries and drizzled with time to five minutes instead of ten. caramel sauce. Recipe courtesy of ivillage.com. 
Glazed Bacon-and-Cheese-Filled Peach Iced Tea Burgers 
3 orange pekoe tea bags 
If you don't have access to a grill, 4 cups cold water this recipe can be easily made on a 5 (5-ounce) cans peach nectar (about stove-top grill pan. 3 1/3 cups), chilled 
1/4 cup chilled simple syrup 
3 tablespoons dark brown sugar Simple syrup: 
1 1/2 teaspoons paprika 1 1/3 cups sugar 
1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 1 1/4 cups water 
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin Peach slices for garnish 
1/4 teaspoon chipotle powder 
1/4 teaspoon salt Place tea bags in a quart-size glass 
1/4 teaspoon fresh-ground pepper measure or heatproof bowl. 
1 pound ground beef In a saucepan, bring water just to a 1/2 cup shredded sharp cheddar boil and pour over tea bags. Steep tea cheese for five minutes and strain through a 6 slices bacon, cooked and crumbled sieve into a heatproof pitcher. Cool tea 4 rolls and chill, covered, until cold, about one hour. Stir in nectar and syrup. Heat grill to medium. Combine the Serve tea over ice in tall glasses and sugar, spices, salt and pepper in a garnish with peach slices and basil small bowl and set aside. Form the sprigs. To make simple syrup: In a beef into eight equal patties. Toss the saucepan bring sugar and water to a cheese and crumbled bacon together boil, stirring and boil until sugar is and place an equal amount on four of completely dissolved. Let syrup cool the patties. Place the remaining patties and chill, covered. Syrup may be made over the cheese and bacon and pinch two weeks ahead, chilled and covered. 
the edges to seal. Generously pat each Recipe courtesy of ivillage.com. burger with the -reserved spice mix­ture. Grill to desired doneness -Contact Maureen Malloy at about five minutes per side for medi-mmalloy 1 @nd.edu 
Peach 
J. ·c·· '* d" Tr-a./
.... . . """ 
Photo illustration by waynescotfee.se and RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA/Observer Graphic A peach iced tea is the perfect way to top off a satisfying Labor Day burger feast, complete with a bacon-and-cheese burger and sweet potato fries. · 
Fooo CoLUMN 
Italian restaurant offers authentic taste 

CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer 

Cosimo and Susie's A Bit of Italy, an Italian restaurant near McKinley Avenue, Is a little-known locale for a great meal. It also features a great atmosphere. 
Have you been craving that home­Jessica generally orders the cheese cooked Italian flavor that is lacking in ravioli, or the mostacolli a! forno, these parts? If so, look no further than while Megan usually feasts on the the South Bend yellow pages -that's meat ravioli. If you decide to visit on a what we did! Friday or Saturday night, you are in After flip-Megan McFadden and for a saliva-inducing surprise! Cosimo ping through Jessica Stoller and Susie only serve their amazing amusement meat lasagna on Friday and Saturday 
nights, but it's worth the wait. Little
d e v i c e s · WIF: We Taste Food 
attorneys at Cosimo in his cute chef's hat makes law, bar sup-the best marinara sauce this side of plies and baton twirling instructions, the Po River. It has an outstanding we came upon the restaurant section. texture and seasoning to tickle even 
Jessica's heart began to pitter-patter the most criticalof tastebuds. and Megan gasped. There were many Not only is their pasta a divine expe­choices. However, one ad in particular rience, but all entrees come with a boasted "Homemade cooking just like yummy house salad and toasted garlic Mamma used to make," and we could bread, deeming them worthy of a search no longer. Cosimo and Susie's record-setting six-spork rating. Can A Bit of Italy, just off of McKinley, was we rate higher than five sporks? Heck in our dining destiny. yes we can! 
Since this first encounter, we have The service at Cosimo and Susie's is frequented Cosimo and Susie's for generally pretty friendly, but some­many occasions, including birthday times a little slow. Chit-chatty regular celebrations, roman-customers and the wait tic rendezvous and staff sometimes cause
Cosimo and Susie's
family get-togethers. short delays. Even Each time was a A Bit of Italy Susie herself is a wait­unique experience, ress at this fine estab­
Cuisine: Italian, Pizza 

far better than the lishment. With fre­
Location: 2446 Miracle Ln,
last. From specialty quent visits, the
Mishawaka, IN 

lasagna Fridays to restaurant becomes
Phone: (574) 258-4911 

tortellini Tuesdays, more homey and Cosimo and Susie's appealing. Occasion­provides the perfect atmosphere for ally, even Cosimo himself will grace your dining delight. your table with his presence. On our 
One cannot remark on the atmos­last visit, Cosimo was scolded for phere at Cosimo and Susie's without "talking with the ladies" after a visit first mentioning the area surrounding to our table. The service receives four the tiny restaurant. Town and Country sporks. shopping center is an experience in Overall, Cosimo and Susie's A Bit of and of itself-neon palm trees, Gwen Italy deserves a rating of four and Stefani blaring on a loudspeaker one-third sporks. It's the perfect installed in the parking lot, the restaurant for any occasion, and a world's largest piano warehouse and a great way to avoid the humdrum of karate dojo are among the few pleas­the dining hall. ures you'll encounter on your visit. So load up your friends and save Once you enter the restaurant itself, yourself a voyage through the yellow however, the mood changes complete­pages by dropping by Cosimo and ly. For reasons unknown to everyone Susie's. And who knows, you might but Cosimo, the motif of the small, see South Bends finest food critics hometown restaurant has an there ... or us. Italian/film/religious flare. The restau­rant is also very dark, but not in a Megan "Mostacolli" McFadden and scary way. Usually some sort of Italian Jessica "Spaghetti" Stoller are stu­music is playing in the background, dents at Saint Mary's College. but Cosimo and Susie showed their Megan McFadden and Jessica versatility by playing NPR for our Stoller can be contacted at mmc­entire first visit. In the end, the fadOJ@saintmarys.edu and atmosphere receives three sporks. jstollO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
The food at Cosimo and Susie's is by The views expressed in this column far the best thing about the restaurant are those of the author and not neces­and Mishawaka, for that matter. sarily those of The Observer. 
,-------------~~------­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, September 6, 2005 
page 15 
DPAC REVIEW 
French classic offers timeless vision 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
A"istant Scene Ediwr 
llirodor .loan-Luc Godard once said that "film is tlw truth at 24 frames por SIH~ond, and ovnry cut is a lin." Takon on thosn terms, his I1H10 debut "A Bout Do SoufTin" ("Bn~athless") has much truth and as many lios in its brinf. busy nirwty minutns. 
"Brnathloss," along with Francois Truffaut's equally incendiary "Les ()uatro cnnts eoups" ("Thn 400 Blows"), was thn picture that launched the Frnnch Now Wavo, a rnvolutionary movnnwnt that changed tho face of cin­oma. 
"Breathloss" follows Michel (Jean­Paul Belmondo), a 
Souffle" is "Out of Breath," which is perhaps a more fitting title, as Michel spends most of the film simultaneously on tho run from the poliee and trying to win over tho heart of Patricia. 
''I'm tired," he says as the film reach­ns its eonr.lusion, and Godard imparts tho snnse that Miehel is not only tired, but exhausted. At the film's brilliantly abrupt conclusion, he is both literally and figuratively out of breath. 
Mueh has been made of Godard's sty­listic tendencies, a jarring juxtaposition of rapid edits and long-takes. Its tech­nical innovations are part of what made it so influential, as everyone from Seorsese to Tarantino owes a debt to its confidently strident style. Godard popu­larized the "jump cut," an edit in 
which, according 
fugitive carjaeknr, to noted lilm pro­w h o i s r u.n n i n g Breathless fessor David from the law after Bordwell, "two having killed a shots of the same poI ice officer. subject are cut Michel is in love together but are with Patricia Director: Jean-Luc Godard not sufficiently 
(Joan Sebnrg), an Writers: Jean-Luc Godard and Francois different in cam­Amorican student Truffuat era distance and and aspiring jour­Starring: Jean-Paul Belmondo, Jean angle." This cre­nalist. As the Seberg and Daniel Boulanger ates a dizzying 
Paris policfl close in, the two lovers struggle with their inability to connect with oach other. 
A mere plot synopsis dofls little jus­lien to the film's dialogue and style. Godard is an acknowledged inl1uence on Quentin Tarantino, and that inl1u­nnee is evident throughout, as the director maintains a sense of detached eool that resonates in every frame. 
The direet translation of "A Bout De 
effect as back­
grounds change, but the composition of characters remains largely the same. 
Adjacent to these elliptical edits are languid long-takes, in which the cam­era follows characters for nearly min­utes before cutting to the next shot. The juxtaposition of these two vastly different shot-types is what gives "Breathless" its vertiginous stop-and­go style, which is alternately leisurely and frantic. 

Sometimes a film that is technically groundbreaking fails to resonate in later years. This is true of 1927's "The Jazz Singer," the lilm that helped popu­larize talking pictures, and it is true of 1915's "Birth of a Nation," which has a mixed reputation due to its glorifica­tion of the Ku Klux Klan. 
It is decidedly not true of "Breathless," which is still as enter­taining and fast-paced today as it was in 1960. Godard would go on to have an interesting, often-brilliant (and just as often maddeningly frustrating) 
career. His latest film, "Notre 
Musique," was released last year to · positive reviews. 
"Breathless" is a cinematic experi­
ence and a fantastic film. While many 
of Godard's cinematic techniques have 
entered the standard lexicon, his style 
and the singularity of vision remain. 
"Breathless" is more than just the work 
of one of the cinema's most notorious 
mavericks, it is one of the finest pic­
tures of all-time. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
DVD REVIEW 
'The Ring Two' lowers bar for sequels 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Assistam Scene Ediwr 
For instruetions on how to ruin a pot1~ntial movie franehisn, look to the horror gnnre. 
Hneent years havn shown audiences that othnr genrns can pump out good sequels, such as thn "X-Men," "Spider Man" and "Slunk" franchises. Horror n~ovins have n~1t l~.a~l a decent offe~!ng smcn tho gore-lost l•roddy vs. Jason. 
Wlwn "The Hing" was releasnd, it was toutml as lwing scary for its originality. Exp1~etations wnrn high for tho snquel, as tho dirnctor picked to holm "The Hing Two" was llidoo Nakata, who direetod thn original version rnlc~ased in Asia. This explains why fans of "The Hing" found the sequnl so bittnrly disappoint­ing. 
Thn first way to ruin a sequnl is to ignon• thn ruins of the prncedent. While bonding t.hn ruins can prove ell'eetive for shor.king thn vinwnr, ignoring them out­right simply confusns fans and ruins mntinuity. "Tho Hing Two" dons exaetly 
that, trashing the successes of its prede­cessor. 
An equally effective method for bury­ing a sequel is ignoring the stylistic themes of the forerunner. "The Hing" was ell'ective because it was so mysteri­ous and foreboding. The viewer was never really certain of what was going on. The malevolent forces within the movie kept themselves hidden, dropping mere hints here and there until the shocking climax. 
"The Hing Two" moves away from this trend, keeping the vengeful ghost Samara within the viewers mind at all times. It is prineiple within horror films that what the audience does not know gives the evil entity its power. Freddy was originally scary because no one really knew who he was or what he was scheming. "The Exoreist" was frighten­ing for the same reason, which was that the viewer was largely kept in the dark. 
A third way to ruin a successful movie is to add horrible computer-generated images. The original "Hing" was e!Tec­tivn because it appeared to keep com­puter tampering to a minimum. The sec­


ond shamelessly incorpo­rates eom putnr-gennrated visuals, having an entire scene in the film revolve around the inclusion of a poorly rendered hnrd of deer. It's both distracting and damaging to the overall viewing experi­ence. 
The studio chose to only release the unrated ver­sion of the lilm on DVD, which was probably more of a desperate ploy than any treat to fans. The added scones are mostly unnecessary character development scenes. They were edited out of the theatrical version, and tacking them into the DVD only prolongs the pain for the viewer. 

Placing the word "unrated" on the cover seems to be a frantic stab at mis­leading viewers into thinking that its more shocking than the theatrical release, whieh is obviously not the ease. 
The DVD itself is presented quite nice­ly. It has a nice shiny slipcover that goes over the standard DVD case and this unrated version comes with all the stan­dard special features. These include some featurettes and additional deleted scenes that worn not plaeed in tho unrat­ed DVD cut. 
Tho most interesting fnature included was the short video simply titled "Hings," a 16-minutn featurn that chronicles thn events that lead up to "The Hing Two." llowever, it was packaged with the origi­nal "Hing" when the snquol was rnleasnd in theaters, making it an unnocessary addition for somn buyers. · 
"The Bing Two" is a pnrfnct lnsson on how not to do a sequel. As such, it may be of interest to potential filmmakers and masoehists. Everyono nlse should look elsewhere for real thrills. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 6, 2005 
MLB-NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Jones burns Mets in eighth as Braves win 4-2 
Hernandez shuts downs Marlins in 5-2 Washington win; Astros jump out to lead, hold off Philadelphia for 4-3 win 
Associated Press the best center fielder in the ond time in two months, and game, bar none. Everybody's this streak was built against 
ATLANTA-Chipper Jones just been waiting for him to Philadelphia and Florida, clubs can't really explain his success turn the corner offensively, and ahead of it in the tight NL wild­against the New York Mets. He now he's done that." card race. just hopes the hits keep coming. Chipper Jones hit an RBI dou­"What I think they've done 
"I respect that organization ble that tied the score in the the last three days is play the and the players over there," first and homered against Steve way they're capable of play­Jones said after his tiebreaking, Trachsel (1-1). Jones has 34 ing," said manager Frank two-run homer in the eighth homers against the Mets, sec­Robinson, who banned loud inning and led the Atlanta ond among active players to music, card playing and cell Braves over the New York Mets Barry Bonds' 35, according to phone conversations from the 4-2 Monday. the Elias Sports Bureau. He clubhouse after Washington's 
"It just so happens that when also has a .337 career average last loss. "Their attention is 
we play each other a lot late in in 531 a,t-bats against New York now on baseball itself and not a the season over the last few with 102 RBis. lot of outside stuff, and it's years, I've had some pretty starting to show up on the m13aningful hits," said Jones, Washington 5, Florida 2 field." 
who had three RBis. Livan Hernandez was as good The other thing that returned 
Andruw Jones hit his major at the plate as he was on the the iast three days: terrific league-leading 45th homer for mound. starting pitching. John the Braves, who improved to Hernandez didn't allow a hit Patterson, Esteban Loaiza and 49-20 against the Mets at until the fifth inning, took a Hernandez allowed four earned Turner Field, including 5-1 this shutout into the ninth, and runs over 23 2-3 innings. year. Atlanta estimated his drove in a key run with one of "They unders.tand the impor­home run went 452 feet, the his two singles to lead the tance of each start now, and sixth-longest at Turner Field Washington Nationals past the each one of them's going out and the longest by a Brave. Florida Marlins Monday. there and raising their game a 
Chipper Jones thinks his "I like the big games," said level or two," Robinson said. "If teammate should win the NL Hernandez, the World Series these three pitch that way the MVP award. MVP for Florida in 1997. ''I'm rest of their starts, we have a 
"I think he's a landslide win-. not the kind of guy that is nerv­very good chance of winning 
ner," Chipper Jones said. ous." this wild card." "You're talking about a guy Washington has won three Hernandez (15-6) was far who plays Gold Glove defense, straight games for only the sec-more effective than during Zimmerman on after a leadoff second before getting the final 
recent struggles attributed single, Robinson went to his out. 
· mainly to a bothersome right bench for consecutive pinch­Kenny Lofton, who led off the knee that's been drained during hitters. Brian Schneider was ninth with an infield single, the season. intentionally walked, and scored on a wild pitch to make 
"He doesn't give you many Carlos Baerga flied out, bring­it 4-3 with two outs. Lidge then mistakes to hit. It was just com­ing up Hernandez with two on walked Ryan Howard, and mand. He was not throwing 95 and two outs. Jimmy Rollins doubled into the mph at you. It was just pinpoint right-field corner to put run­control," Florida outfielder Jeff Houston 4, Philadelphia 3 ners on second and third. LidgeConine said. Andy Pettitte pitched 5 2-3 struck out pinch-hitter Endy 
Marlins manager Jack scoreless innings, Lance Chavez to end the game. McKeon said Hernandez "did a Berkman hit a three-run homer Berkman's drive in the first great job," but added: "We and the Houston Astros moved off Brett Myers (12-7) gave were swinging at a lot of first into first place in the NL wild­Pettitte all the runs he needed. pitches and helping him out." card standings with a victory Pettitte lowered his ERA to 2.42 
As always, Hernandez was over the Philadelphia Phillies and has allowed three earned deliberate throughout: slow on Monday night. runs or less in 15 straight walks to and from the mound at The Astros moved a half­starts. He has given up one run the start and finish of each game ahead of Philadelphia or less in 11 of those outings. inning; a slow, reliable change­and one game ahead of Florida Pettitte left after Jason up; a jog to first when he hit with their 1Oth consecutive win Michaels doubled in the sixth, into a bases-loaded double play over the Phillies. Washington is but Chad Qualls retired Bobby to end the sixth. 1 1/2 games behind Houston, Abreu on a slow grounder on 
''I'm not 100 percent," while the New York Mets trail his first pitch to end the inning. Hernandez reminded everyone. by three games. The Phillies cut it to 4-1 on an 
But there were exceptions: Pettitte (14-9) allowed three RBI single by Mike Lieberthal The burly right-hander ran to hits, struck out five and walked off Qualls in the seventh. Tomas the dugout after striking out none. Dan Wheeler escaped a Perez then singled to load the Juan Pierre on an 86 mph fast­jam with the bases loaded in bases and chase Qualls with ball to end the top half of the the seventh, and Brad Lidge one out. Mike Gallo entered and 
AP eighth. pitched the ninth for his 33rd struck out pinch-hitter Ryan Washington Nationals manager Frank Robinson instructs his And in the bottom half, with save, although he gave up one Howard. But Gallo walked team during their game against the Florida Marlins Monday. Washington clinging to a 1-0 run and had the tying run at Rollins to force in the second The Nationals won 5-2. lead and June draft pick Ryan third and the winning run at run. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Obser-ver reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

2 season tix & parking pass Tutor(s) needed for Algebra, 01 alum looking to rent out Turtle NEED 2 tickets for the 9/17 NO foot-or 2 for any home game. Discrete Math & other subjects at Creek townhouse Michigan St. ball game for my nephews who NOTICES my house. Now-May 2006. Prefer FoR RENT weekend (9/16 &17) -$500 for have never been to campus. Please 57 4-276-8507. Junior or Senior w/strong Math weekend plus full maid cleanup on help! dreaminbig04@yahoo.com SPRING BREAKERS skills. Can show you how to tutor Blue & Gold Homes. 2-8 bedroom, Sunday, negotiable. Call Rob (415) 
... 
Book Early and Save Lowest Prices LOVE KIDS? other subjects. Email or call for weekend rentals, furnished, alumni 845-5445 if interested. I would like to purchase your Notre Hottest Destinations BOOK 15=2 more detailed info. Linda 272-8235, owned. You design lease. Dame football tickets. 574-289­FREE TRIPS OR CASH Professional Mom needs help pick-lwaelchli@ datacruz.com Call250-7653. 8048. FREE MEALS/PARTIES BY 11n ing up children at school and taking Highest Commission Best Travel them to activities between 3:00-2 bedroom home within 1.5 miles of TICKETS BUY SELL OR TRADE NO FOOT-Perks www.sunsplas.htours.com 6:00p.m. Monday-Friday. campus. Partially furnished with BALL TICKETS. TOP$$ PAID. A.M. 1-800-426-7710 FoR SALE extra room, washer/dryer, and WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. -232-2378 P.M. -288-2726 
Great kids-daughters ages 12-15. kitchen appliances. TOP$$ PAID. Schools and home close to NO and Brand new full mattress & box. $750/month. 251-1570. PLEASE HELP!!! Buying season SMC. Call574-250-8552. tix GAs only or any game GAs. Call 
WANTED Still in plastic. $120. FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. Mark 277-1659. 
Call Karen Stonehill at 272-5013. Can deliver. LODGING FOR FOOTBALL 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE SOCCER REFEREES GAMES Visit www.amishcoun-FOR$$: needed for south side elementary Local family looking for part-time 574-876-4474. trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and www.victorytickets.com PERSONAL school babysitter for 2 toddlers. Breakfast Accommodations. Non-
Queen pillow1op mattress set. smoking, Private Baths, Full BUYING & SELLING NO FOOT-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do located near Erskine Golf Course Must love children! New with warranty. Breakfasts. BALL TIX. not go it alone. If you or someone on Miami St. References required. $155. CHECK MY PRICES. you love needs confidential support Experience a must. GOOD HOUSES IN GREAT 273-3911. or assistance, please call Sr. M. L. $35 per soccer game, Transportation necessary. Can deliver. NEIGHBORHOODS: Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more andersonNDrentals.com or WANTED: 4-6 MSU GAs together, information, see our bi-weekly ad in Call574-291-4200. Call574-247-9213. 574-231-4522. (574)233-9947. Dave 248-760-1767 THE OBSERVER. 


"Ii.1esday, September 6, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB-AMERICAN LEAGUE 
19-year-old leads Mariners over Oakland 2-0 
Del/ucci's home run leads Rangers over Minnesota 7-0; Uribe comes triple short ofcycle as ChiSox down BoSox 5-3 
Asso.:iatcd Press 
OAKLAND. Calif". -On the mound, Felix Hernandez 11xhibits all the poise and confi­dnncn of a vdnran. It's after­ward wlwn lw shows signs of his !run ;~ge, giggling and fidget­ing with his towPI as he discuss­t1S his day. 
Tlw tnen phenorn dazzled again, and Adrian Btdtre and Cmg Dobbs each had an HHI to providn the necessary run sup­port in tlw Seattln Mariners' 2-0 win ov11r tlw struggling Oakland AthlHtics on Monday. 
"My age doesn't matter," llernandez said. ''I'm a good pitclwr.... Onee I'm on my ganw, I can't fail." 
Yuniesky Bntaneourt had a triple for Seattle, which handed the A's thnir rifth loss in six games -their third shutout defeat in five games and AL­high 12th this year. 
The 19-year-old Hernandez (:l-2) pitched seven shutout innings to beat A's rookie Joe Blanton, elTiciently getting groundout after groundout and giving up just onn fly ball that rnachnd the outfield. 
"lin stuek it to us," A's manag­er Ken Macha said. 
The A's dropped 1 1/2 gamns behind the Los Angeles Angels in the AL West race and also 1 1/2 games back of the New York Yankees in the wild-card stand­ings. Oakland lost two of three to New York in a weekend series, then dropped the i>pener of an important series against last-place Seattle that the A's would like to win to keep pace. 
The A's quickly understood the hype around llernandez in the club's first glimpse of the domi­nant right-hander. who made his seventh major league start. 
llernandez's first three pitches were fastballs elocked at 96 mph, 98 and 97, then he struck out lnadofl' hitter Mark Ellis with an 83 mph eurveball. 
Hernandez hasn't allowed more than three runs in any of his outings, though he lost 2-0 to Handy Johnson and the Yankees in his previous start last Wednesday despite pitching eight strong innings. 
Mariners manager Mike llargrove planned to let Hernandez finish the game beforn he ran into trouble in the seventh. There were no com­plaints from the pitcher when he got pulled. 
Texas 7, Minnesota 0 
MINNEAPOLIS -With the Minnesota Twins fading in the AL wild-eard race, some players arc frustrated by the lack of a playoll' push. 
David DHllucci hit a three-run double to back a strong start by Kameron Loe, and the Texas Hangers beat the Twins 7-0 Monday. 
Minnesota made two errors that led to live unearned runs and dropped 5 1/2 games behind the New York Yankees, the AL wild-card leader. The Twins are 12-47 when scoring three runs or fewer. 
"I hate to see losses like that," said Minnesota starter Carlos Silva (9-7), who allowed six runs -one earned -and eight hits in seven innings. "I want to see the team play like the one we had last year, that was always playing hard and diving for balls. 

"I don't want to mention names, but I know we can play better." 
Twins right fielder Jacque Jones was sitting near Silva when he made his comments. 
"That's fine," Jones said. "Everybody's entitled to do what they want to do. But I'm not going to point fingers. That's not what good teams do." 
Minnesota, which has scored the second-fewest runs in the 


Castle~oiot 
APART~\~~ E NTS 
18011 Cleveland R~ad • South Bend, lndiana 46637 
CorneT or Clevefand and Ironwood Road 
Phone (574) 272-8110 • Toll Free {888) 642-0110 www.cppj.coro 
• llu.~iness Center 
• 
.r·ree Tanning Be<.1 

• 
Racquet Ball 


• 
llldoor/Outdoor Te11nis & Basketball 

• 
Stvimming 

• 
Exercise RoonJ. 


• 
Whirlpool & Sauna 


• Short-Term Leasing Options 


• 1-Z llEDROOMS/Z BEDROOMS WITH LOFT & DENS 
• 
MONTHLY EXECUTIVE SUITES 


AL to Kansas City, was shut out for the ninth time this season. That's the most since the Twins were blanked 10 times in 1999. 
Loe (8-4) allowed live hits in eight innings, the longest of his three starts this season. C.J. Wilson pitched a perfect ninth as Texas won for the 11th time in 15 games. 
Loe, a 23-year-old right-han­der, was used out of the bullpen for most of the year. 
"I really feel comfortable out there," he said. "It's what I've wanted to do for a long time. I'm just happy the manager keeps giving me the ball and sending me out there." 
It was Loe's second consecu­tive strong start against the Twins. On Aug. 26, he pitched five innings in a 6-0 win over Minnesota at Texas. lie has won all of his starts this season. 
Chicago 5, Boston 3 
Brandon McCarthy pitched seven innings of shutout ball and Paul Konerko homered off Curt Schilling on Monday as the Chicago White Sox beat the Boston Red Sox 5-3 to extend their winning streak to five games. 
Juan Uribe had a single, a double and a homer as Chicago's magic number to clinch the AL Central droppnd to 17, with second-place Cleveland 1 0 games back pending tho out­come of its game at Detroit. 
Boston lost for just the third time in 24 home games to fall to three games ahead of the idle New York Yankees in the AL East. 
McCarthy (2-1) allowed three hits and a walk, striking out seven. The 22-year-old right­hander, who has been up and down from Triple-A since mak­ing his major league debut on May 22, has won both starts in his latest recall to lower his EHA from 8.14 to 5.0R. 
Schilling (5-7) gave up four runs on nine hits, three walks and a hit batter in 6 1-3 innings, striking out four. Still, it was the first time in six starts this sea­son the former ace. who is recovering from ankle surgery, allowed fewer live earnnd runs. 
Former elosnr Keith Foulke pitdwd 1 2-3 hitless innings in his second scornlnss outing sincn missing 50 games for left knee surgery. 
Tony GralTanino hit a three­run homer with two outs in tho ninth off Bobby .Jenks, and the Heel Sox avoided bning shut out for just the third limo this sea­son.The game was a makeup of an Aug. 14 rainout that was called when Chicago was lead­ing 5-2 in the fourth inning. Neither team was thrillnd about giving up a home ofT-day on a holiday; tho White Sox had to interrupt a 1 0-game homestand to fly East, and Boston will play on 30 eonsecutive days. 
Notre Dame Athletics Invites You to Attend The Inaugural 
DROP THE PUCK DINNER 
Tuesday, September 6 • Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
• Featuring as guest speaker legendary NHl coach and Hockey Hall of Farner Scotty Bowman (former Detroit Red Wings head coach, 
winningest coach in NHL history-Including Nine Stanley Cups.) 
• 
Meet the 2005-06 Fighting Irish Hockey team and new head coach Jeff Jackson. 

• 
5-6pm open skate on the Joyce Center Ice Rink 

• 
6-6:45pm autographs with the Fighting Irish 



team. ...""(,·· / 
• 7pm Dinner Sponsored by Famous -Tickets are limited, call the 
Dave's and Speaking Program. Notre Dame ticket office at 1-7356 to order yours today! 
...."'"T'""' Dame, Saint Mary's, Tickets only Cross College $10 
_,nm..,nn; and Staff 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, September 6, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERvrcEs Page 18 
MLS 
Eastern Conference 
team record pts. +1­New England 14-5-6 48 17 Kansas City 11-6-9 42 11 Chicago 13-10-3 42 1 D.C. United 12·9·5 41 14 MetroStars 8-7-10 34 3 Columbus 9-12·3 30 ·8 
Western Conference 
team record pts. +1­San Jose 13·4·8 47 12 FC Dallas 10·8·6 36 5 Los Angeles 10·11·5 35 ·1 Colorado 9·11-4 31 2 Salt Lake 5·16·4 19 ·27 Chivas USA 3·18-5 14 -29 
NFL Preseason Standings 
AFC East 

team NY Jets New England Buffalo Miami  record 3·1 2·2 2·2 1·4  perc. .750 .500 .500 .200  PF 89 80 54 105  PA 53 80 54 105  
AFC North  
team Cleveland Pittsburgh Baltimore Cincinnati  record 3-1 3·1 2·2 2·2  perc. .750 .750 .500 .500  PF 74 86 64 92  PA 56 68 62 67  
AFC South  
team Jacksonville Houston Tennessee Indianapolis  record 2·2 1·3 1·3 0·5  perc. .500 .250 .250 .ODD  PF 74 56 71 72  PA 84 96 78 143  
AFC West  
team Denver San Diego Oakland Kansas City  record 4·0 2·2 1·3 0·4  perc. 1.000 .500 .250 .DOD  PF 113 87 59 73  PA 80 74 63 101  
NFC East  
team  record  perc.  PF  PA  
Dallas NY Giants Philadelphia Washington  3·1 3-1 2-2 1·3  .750 .750 .500 .250  77 83 92 64  52 55 106 88  
NFC North  
team  record  p~rc.  PF  PA  
Minnesota Chicago Green Bay Detroit  3·1 3-2 2·2 1·3  .750 .600 .500 .250  90 86 41 50  81 86 78 75  
NFC South  
team Atlanta Tampa Bay Carolina New Orleans  record 4-1 2·2 2·2 1·3  perc. .BOD .500 .500 .250  PF 107 75 82 88  PA 72 68 78 95  
NFC West  
team St. Louis Arizona San Francisco Seattle  record 3-1 3·1 2·2 2·2  perc. .750 .750 .500 .500  PF 102 75 82 88  PA 85 74 80 73  

around the dial 
TENNIS 

U.S. Open Day 9 Coverage 11 a.m., USA Network 
Evening Coverage 7 p.m., USA Network 
NFL 

Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO-For the first time in three days, the New Orleans Saints didn't spend their afternoon watching news reports of destruction caused by Hurricane Katrina. 
They were finally back on the practice field Monday, getting used to their new surroundings in San Antonio. 
"I think being on the field and in the meetings is a time that's away from all that," coach Jim Haslett said. "It's good for your mind to get on the field and practice and be where you're with your peers." 
But for one Saints player, it has been particularly tough getting his mind back on business. Return specialist and special teams player Michael Lewis was born in New Orleans and attended Grace King High School and Bonnable High School in the area. 
Lewis said he has more than 30 family members living in the New Orleans area. 
"We all talked about what was going on before practice," Lewis said. "Everybody in my family is OK. But now that we're here, we know what we have to do." 
IN BRIEF 
Rice quits Brop.cos, 
announces retirement DENVER -Jerry Rice finally called a halt to his glorious career. 
The 42-year-old Rice, the best receiver ever and perhaps the best player at any position, quit after it became increasingly clear he was slidiTli{ down the depth chart with the Denver Broncos, with whom he spent training camp. 
"This is a happy day," he said. "I think the tears that you see basically is that I have really enjoyed this ride. 
If Rice sticks to his decision and doesn't try to come back with anoth­er team, he finishes his career with 38 NFL records, including those for career receptions (1 ,549), yards receiving (22,895) and touchdowns receiving (197). 
After being released by Seattle, with whom he finished last season, Rice signed with Denver over the summer, reuniting with coach Mike Shanahan. 
Though the Saints still are awaiting word where they will play the balance of their home games, the team expects to practice in San Antonio for the rest of the season. 
The NFL announced Monday that their second game -which was sup­posed to be their home opener against the New York Giants -will be on Monday, Sept. 19, at Giants Stadium. 
The game will begin at 
7:30 EDT on ABC, then be switched to ESPN at 9 p.m., when ABC goes to the regularly scheduled game between Washington and Dallas in Irving, Texas. In New York and Louisiana, as well as other parts of the Gulf Coast, ABC will continue to carry the Giants-Saints game, switching to Hedskins­Cowboys when the Saints game ends. 
The team left New Orleans a few days before the storm, then played their final preseason game in Oakland on Thursday night. Players had been on· between then and Monday. 
They gathered for meet­ings at the San Antonio Convention Center, then traveled 10 minutes by bus to a practice facility at the San Antonio School District Spring Sports Complex. 

Agassi~ns advancesto 
quarterfina1s 
NEW YORK-Three points from the end of a sunbaked five-setter, the man draped over the net like a wet noodle was 10 years younger than Andre Agassi. 
Maybe to rub it in, maybe because Agassi felt rejuvenated, he hopped on hjs toes as Xavier Malisse, gasp­ing and all but gone, peeled himself off the net and returned for the final moments of punishment. 
Agassi shrugged off Matisse's brave last stand -a 26th ace -then crushed a forehand into the corner to set up double match point. 
At 35, Agassi tries not to waste too many opportunities to stomp on an opponent he has down, though he missed a couple when he was two points from winning in straight sets. 
This time he unleashed a backhand that the lunging Belgian whacked long, giving Agassi a 6-3, 6-4, 6-7 (5), 4-6, 6-2 victory Monday 
Bonds starts to train ~th 
Giants 
LOS ANGELES -Barry Bonds worked out with the San Francisco Giants on Monday, taking batting practice and testing his throwing arm before the team opened a three­game series with the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
Bonds, recovering from three oper­ations on his right knee since Jan. 31, said he didn't know when he would return to the lineup. 
"It's day-by-day right now, get through today and see how I turn out," he told a horde of reporters in the Giants' dugout. 
The 41-year-old slugger took 17 swings and hit five balls over the fence during his turn in the batting cage. 
"I did pretty well today," he said.. "When I get back on the field, I want to be playing where I left off." 
Early arriving fans watched Bonds. "Come on, Barry!" one shouted. 
.---~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Tuesday, September 6, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS 
NHL 
Olympic hopefuls try out 
39 NHL players vie to be narrzed to 2006 team for Italy gan1es 
Associated Press COLOHADO SPHIN<iS, Colo. -II' the U.S hockny tnam skatns oil' with a gold medal in thn Turin Olympics, no ono will call it a miraele or rush to makn a major motion pieturo. Truth is. it might not bn all that surprising. This is not l<JHO and these players art~n 't unknown college kids liko the ones who sh()(:ked the world by IJ11ating what was thought to bn an invincible Soviet toam during the height of tho Cold War. Starting Tw~sday, 39 Olympic hopefuls from 21 NIIL tnams will gatlwr for a three-day ori­nntation camp at thn home of US;\ I Iockey. Many of the invit­ed players arn familiar because most havn spent time in thn Nlll. and a buneh have starred. Tlwn~ are former Olympians and Stanlt~y Cup champions. Tlwro is a good blond of veter­an nxpnrinncn and a healthy dose of fresh. young mwrgy. But no at:tivn Anwriean play­er has won an Olympic gold medal. Only tlw 1960 and 1980 
U.S. squads that playnd on homo ice havn claimed the prize. 
Sonw from this group won't make it to Italy in February for the 2006 games. And some who WPrP.n't asked to this t·.amp will likt\ly make the trek to the Olympics. thn third time NIIL players will be used. 
Brett llull and John LeClair, thn top two scorers for the U.S. 
team that won a silver medal at the 2002 Salt Lake City Olympics, aren't in attendance. They will have plenty of time with their new NHL teams ­llull with Phoenix and LeClair in Pittsburgh -to prove they still have the offensive punch coach Peter Laviolette will want in Turin. 
Bncause Olympic tryouts rmtlly bngin the first week in October when thn NI IL returns from a season-long lockout, players will have a few months to show they deserve a spot on the team. Past pnrformance for national squads will only count so much. 
Carolina Hurricanes coach Laviolette and U.S. general manager Don Waddell of the Atlanta Thrashers won't just be watehing their tt~ams during the first few months of the reg­ular season, but will be keep­ing watehful eyes on all Amerieans around the league. 
"The proeess will begin when the season begins," Waddell said. "This is an orientation camp, it's not a tryout camp that we're having." 
;\ list of 60 to 70 potential players will be submittnd to the International Ice Hockey Fndnration on (kt. 1. It will be whittled down until a roster is chosen about a month before the games get under way in mid-February. 
Four goalies, 21 forwards and 14 defnnsemen wertC) invit­nd to tho orientation camp that will include thrnn on-ice prac­tice sessions, with players divided into two groups on both NIIL and Olympic-sized rinks. 
Experience will only go so far beeause the United States will open play in Turin with six games in nine nights. Fresh legs will be a must, and that's where the youngsters become that much more important. 
"I think that people who have watched me coach in the past know that I like to have an aggressive style and an up­tempo type of game," Laviolette said. "Who those players will be, I'm not really sure." 
So 43-year-old defenseman Chris Chelios and 35-year-old center Jeremy Hoe nick aren't locks to make the team. Chelios, a three-time Olympian, and Hoenick -who made two appearances -were spared this trip to Colorado Springs. 
Brian Leetch, a defensive stalwart during three Olympics, also was told by Waddell he could stay home to get ready for his first season with the Boston Bruins. 
"There are some names left ofT this list for various reasons, but certainly we feel that the depth of the players in the U.S. continues to grow and we're really pleased with the amount of players that we have avail­able," Waddell said. 
Invitations were extended to veterans Mike Modano, Bill Guerin, Doug Weight and Keith Tkaehuk, who will help new­comers le·arn the ropes. 
The youngest include 21­year-old center Hyan Kesler, who has 28 NHL games under his belt; soon-to-be 21-ycar-old forward Dustin Brown who has played 31 games with the Los Angeles Kings; and 21-year-old Zach Parise and 20-year-old Hyan Suter. who have yet to debut in the NIIL. 


University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
Angers, France 
"Should I stay, or should I go?" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Prof. Paul McDowell and returnees of the program 
Wednesday, September 7, 2005 7:30PM 118 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2005 Academic Year 2006-2007 Fall 2006 -Spring 2007 Applications available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
page 19 

MLB 
Error gives Giants 3-1 victory over Dodgers 
Julio Ramirez scores as Mike Edwards muffs ground ball in eighth 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Julio Ramirez scored the go-ahead run on a throwing error by third baseman Mike Edwards in the eighth inning, hnlping the San Francisco Giants defeat the Los Angeles Dodgers 3-1 on Monday night for !heir sixth straight victo­ry. 
The seeond-plaee Giants trail idle San Diego by five games in the NL West. 
The third-place Dodgers fell 7 1/2 games behind the Padres, losing their fourth in a row. 
LaTroy Hawkins (2-5) earned the victory despite facing one batter and giving up the game-tying sacrifice fly to pinch-hitter Ricky Ledee. 
Hawkins came on with the bases loaded and one out. Ledee's fly ball to center scored Jose Cruz Jr., but Jason Werth was thrown out trying to advance to third. 
Armando Benitez pitched the ninth for his 12th save. 
Helievnr Yhency Brazoban (2-8) took the loss, giving up one run and one hit. 
Hamirez was running for pinch-hitter Lance Ninkro, who led ofT the eighth with a single. Handy Winn sacriliced Ramirez to second, .J.T. Snow walked with two outs and Moises Alou followed with a grounder to third. Edwards fielded the ball in the hole and threw wildly past second baseman Jeff Kent, allowing Ramirez to score. 
San Francisco took a 1-0 
lead on a saerifiee fly by Yarnid llaad in the fifth. It was his first major league HBI. 
Hay Durham led off the ninth with a double oiT Steve Schmoll and scored the Giants' third run on a double steal. 
San Frarieiseo starter Brad 
Hennessey allowed  one  run  
a n d  s e v ~~ n  h its  i n  6  I -3  
innings, struek out two  and  
walked three.  

Dodgers starter Derek Lowe gavn up one run and four hits in s1wen innings, struck out a season-high eight and walked one. 
The right-hander retired his l'irst 11 batters bel'orn giving up a single to Snow with two outs in the fourth. 
Lowe was hit near his right foot by Durham's singln in the l'irth. lin then struek out Pedro Feliz, but lnl't finldnr Jose Valnntin misplayed Todd Linden's single, allowing Durham to advanen to third and Lindnn to sneond. llaad flied to enntnr. seoring Durham. 
Thn Giants' dnfens1~ exneut­ed doubln plays in nve of the first sevnn innings. Tlw onn in tlw sixth was preceded by left l'idder ;\lou's diving catch of Kent's l'ly ball in the alloy, with runners on first and sne­ond. 
Before the ganw, Barry Bonds reunited with the Giants, taking batting prac­tice and testing his throwing arm. 
Bonds, recovering from three operations on his right knee since Jan. 31, said he dido 't know when he would return to the lineup. 
"It's day by day right now, get through today and see how I turn out," he said. 
~eta on Campus/ 
Receive 20% offALL Vera Bradley (•urchases September 8th 
6:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. @The Mole Hole Gift Shop 
• Wnhable! This Duffle Hag will curry ALl. yuur luundry .. 
• Ught~Weight! 
• functional! 



Tired ofthe swnc old backpack'! Wunlll new styli~h way to curry your hook~'! \'Oil IWt•d II l'ntf.!! 
Runniug to the Dll'l 11!11 Wlllll your ID nml ufew bucks? h(lll Cnln l'tlr~t· In_,.,, ... J!Ut'kt·L. 



tl 
'M·~le~le
How hi Jlet there... 
East Bank Emporium

From D6 or "The Awnuc", 
Restaurant Building
Oo south nn 31. 
121 S. Niles@ Jefferson 

Tum lell onto Colfax. 
downtown South Uend

rum Righi onto Niles. 
(574) 232-8488 


Contact Lisa Goepfrich at 243 Lyons Hall or 532-867/ with questions ... 
page 20 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 6, 2005 
I I I •
I . 
I I I 
' 
' ' 
Nine Days of Prayer 
and solidarity with our sisters and brothers who have struggled through the trauma of Hurricane 
Katrina 
A profound word of thanks to the entire Notre Dame community­students, faculty, and staff-who helped to contribute for relief efforts over the weekend. 
The nine day period of prayer and solidarity 
ft·~ ~ 
BEGINS TU'ESD L""S.iPTEMBER 6 

.·!-.--;·"·····:·::· 

WEDNESDAY,;SEPTEMBER 14 
6:30 -6:45PM in the BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
Mass on the Feast of Our Lady of Sorrows, Thursday, September 15 at 5:15PM, will conclude the nine days of prayer. 

Campus Ministry 
Tuesday, September 6, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
HURRICANE KATRINA 
Golf tourna:rnent raises :money for hurricane relief 
Solheim Cup expects to send $120,000 to affected communities 
Associated Press CARMEL. Ind. -Tho Solheim Cup plans to sell 3,000 additional t.icknts for Sunday's final day as a fund-raisPr for llurricann Katrina. Tickets havn IHwn sold out since h~bruary. but organizers said Monday tho extra fans <~an be spmad out during the 12 onn­on-onn matdws in tlw U.S. vs. l·:uropo women's competition at tho Crooknd Stick courso in sub­urban Indianapolis. The $40 tickets will be sold at t.lw course's front gate on 
Sunday, with all proceeds -a possible $120,000 -going directly to the U.S. Golf llurrieano Katrina Helief Fund. 
"Thousands upon thousands of Americans are enduring ineon­eeivable tragedy and loss," said Kelly !lynn, the Solheim Cup's tournament director. "We want­ed to do something this week that would contribute to the rolinf efforts and allow the fans to take part. "Play begins Friday, with colleetion points planned for fans who alnmdy have tickets to contribute to the relief P.ITorts. 
In othor Katrina developments: 
U The NFL game between the Nnw York Giants and New Orleans Saints, driven from Louisiana by tho hurrieane, will be played as part of a nationally televised doubleheader starting at 7:30 p.m. EDT on Monday, Sept. 19. 
The game, already moved to the Giants' home in the New Jersey Meadowlands, will begin on ABC, then be switched to ESPN at 9 p.m., when ABC goes to the regularly scheduled game between Washington and Dallas in Irving, Texas. 

The NFL said fund-raising etl'orts for hurricane relief will be intertwined in the telecasts of both games.U No. 5 LSU's foot­ball game against No. 20 Arizona State on Saturday will be playfld in Tempe, Ariz., instead of Baton Rouge because the school does AP not have full use of campus facil­ities due to the many evacuees into the area. 

NFL considers options for Saints home games 
LSU, San Antonio, 16 road games all possible solutions 
Associated Press 
SAN 1\NTONIO -Tho New Orlnans Saints undnrstand that tho NFL wants to eonsider nvnry option for the team's home field this season since Hurricane Katrina ruined the Supnrdomn. 
In turn. tho Saints hope the lmtgun undorstands how badly thny want to play at LSU's Tigor Stadium. 
From gnnoral manager Mickey Loomis to coach Jim llaslott to star r<1coiver Joe Horn, the entire organization seems to be lobbying to play about 7 5 miles from New Orleans in Baton Houge, La. 
"If' we can uplift anyone, obviously that's worthwhile to us," Loomis said Sunday. "We're representatives of the people of Louisiana and the people of New Orleans." 
Other options are the Alamodome in San Antonio, where the team is living and practicing, or playing all 16 games on the road. 
"1 hope they keep the games as elose as possible," Horn said. "For us to play, having to play, if someone could come and support us noar where we wore, it would be good." 
The team has moved its day­to-day operations to San Antonio. They were to begin practicing in the area Monday, with Loomis saying that's going to be the ease all season, regardless of where they end up playing their home games. 
Loomis, Haslett and Horn all said Qsing the Alamodome would be better than playing all 16 games on the road. The Saints already are down for nine road games as their home opener has been moved to Giants Stadium, home of their foe, the New York Giants. 
Haslett said NFL commission­er Paul Tagliabue "put us behind the eight ball" with that decision. 

The Saints open Sunday at Carolina, then play at Giants Stadium on a date to be announced. Their third game is at Minnesota, so the first game still in flux is Oct. 2 against Buffalo. 
Club officials and players are living in a hotel across the interstate from the Alamodome and will be practicing at the San Antonio Independent School District's Spring Sports Complex, which was upgraded several years ago when the Dallas Cowboys trained in the city. The Saints practiced there last year while taking refuge from another hurricane. 
Everyone involved in the organization, and their fami­
lies, fled New Orleans a fow days before Katrina hit. It was evident soon .after the storm that the Supordomo wouldn't be available for this season, and likely many morn. 
Tiger Stadium holds almost 92,000, although there might be issues of whether the turf can handle LSU games on Saturdays and Saints games on Sundays. 
The Alamodome is about 540 milos from the Supordome, making it more difficult for fans to roach. Ilowevnr, Texas is now f'illed with roughly 250,000 Louisiana refugees, including about 25,000 in San Antonio at Kelly USA, a fornwr military base. 

LSU' s ho:rne opener :moved to Arizona St. 
will produce an outcome that
No. 5 Tigers will 
we're all going to be very open on the road in impressed with." 
Thfl Tigers also will visitTempe Saturday Tempe on Sept. 6, 200X, under the hornn-and-homn original 
Associated Press 
agreement. The athiPt.ic. 
TEMPE, Ariz. -LSU and departments arn working to Arizona State have moved thoir schedule a makeup game in football game Saturday from 2006 or 2007 that will rnquire Baton Houge, La., to Tempe Arizona State to play in Baton because of Hurricane Katrina, Hougn. with the Sun Devils saying they "That will bn an additional will donate most of tho gate game without a return trip," receipts to the relief effort. Arizona State senior associatn 
"We don't want to interfere athletic dirnetor Tom Collins with the recovery effort in any said. way," LSU athletic director Skip lin ostimatt~d the game could Bertman said Monday. generate $1 million in relief 
Because of' the many evae­funds. uees in the Baton Rouge area, Collins, sehool football opora­the school does not have full tions direetor Tom Kleinlnin use of its facilities, and "we and univnrsity police chin!' John cannot guarantee housing l'or L. Pickens traveled to Baton anybody," LSU chancellor Sean Houge to appraise the situation O'Keefe said. over the wneknnd and urged 
Earlier, No. 5 LSU postponed LSU ol'f'icials to give up tlw its scheduled horne game last horne game, one of snvnn in an Saturday against North Texas. 11-game sehmlulo. 
No. 20 Arizona State, eoming Tho Tignrs will still bn tlw off a 63-16 home victory over homo team in a national tnln­Temple on Thursday night, will east. Bertman said LSU consid­donate all of its post-expenses ered using tho UnivHrsity of gate reeeipts Lo the relief eiTort. Mississippi's stadium in Oxford 
"We invite people in the as well as a stadium in southeastern arna to plan to Shreveport that has hosted com~ to }'e1~1pe for S~ttu~.ch~y bowl games. evemng, 0 Keefe sa1d. Its "There are masons we deeid­going to be a great contest, and ed on this trip, and they're there's no doubt in my mind it pretty solid," he said. 


page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 6, 2005 
NCAA FooTBALL 
Fu111bled field goal gives Seininoles 10-7 vvin over 'Canes 
CLUB SPORTS 
Field hockey squad opens fall play with split 
Club team goes 2-2 in Tennessee at this weekend's tournament 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's field hockey club opened its fall season at Vanderbilt this weekend, play­ing to a 2-2 draw against the host Commodores. The Irish came out strong, scoring five minutes into the game as right midfielder Meredith Gluck assisted forward Rebecca Mosca for the season's first goal. The team dominated play for the next fifteen minutes as well, pressuring Vanderbilt at every opportunity. 
At that point, the hosts inserted Englishman David James into their lineup, and he was able to change the pace in the Commodore's favor. The Irish were unable to match his speed as they gave up a goal just before the half. Vanderbilt scored early in the second half and held the lead until the final five minutes when Lauren Brinkman scored for the Irish off a corner play, tying the game at the end of regulation play. 
In the 10-minute sudden-vic­tory overtime, teams use -a seven-player format instead of the eleven used for regulation. Vanderbilt again inserted James in the line-up, and he scored the winning goal eight minutes into the period. 
The all-woman Irish squad then faced off against a club from Cincinnati that also fea­tured male players. The Ohio squad was shorthanded and added James from Vanderbilt to their squad, and the teams played nine per side. The Irish gave up the game's first goal 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
just before the half, and then surrendered two goals early in the second half. 
After a timeout, co-captain Katie Butler broke away from the Irish's circle and moved up the field. A passing sequence ended with Lauren Petrozziello assistsing Danielle Fedele, for an Irish score. 
Freshman Lynda Pearl of Saint Mary's was key in sever­al of the passes on this scoring play and in other movement throughout the game. Although the Irish dropped the contest 3-1, Saint Mary's freshman Catherine Duffy made several crucial saves in goal, including one occasion where she came out of goal and stopped David James in a one-on-one breakaway, block­ing his shot. 
The club will host Vanderbilt this Sunday afternoon at Riehle Field in a rematch. 


tial tying kick to give Florida State a 10-7 victory Monday night. 
"We finally stole one from them like they've been stealing them from us," Florida State coach Bobby Bowden said. "It's about time." 
In a series that has seen countless missed field goals by Florida State decide games, Miami missed two and couldn't even get off the biggest one of the game. 
Jon Peattie lined up for the 28-yarder with about 2:30 left, but holder Brian Monroe dropped a low snap that bounced off his hands and rolled back into the pile, never giving Peattie a chance to try the kick. 
"It was like, 'Did that really just happen. That's supposed to happen to us,"' Florida State running back Lorenzo Booker said, laughing at the irony. 
With No. 9 Miami out of time­outs, No. 14 Florida State simply needed to run out the clock to secure its first victory over the Hurricanes since 1999 and maybe take some of the sting out of all those wide rights and lefts, some that might have cost Florida State national titles. 
"It made up for a lot of them but not all of them," said Bowden, who improved to 12-19 against Miami with FSU. 

Florida State overcame its own inept offense (170 total yards) with a defense that regis­tered nine sacks by seven play­ers and some solid special teams plays. 
Both Florida State's Drew 
Join us for the klcko event! 
Tuesday, September 6th 
FREE FOOD at Fieldhouse Mall (by Stonehenge} 7:00pm 
Followed by /Four:71 at 8:30 pm Cavanaugh Hall Chapel 
http:/;www.nd.edu;-tour7 

Weatherford and Miami's Kyle Wright were making their first collegiate starts at quarterback and, at times, neither looked ready to lead a team to victory in one of college football's fiercest rivalries. 
Weatherford was awful, going 7-for-24 for 67 yards with an interception. He was pulled early in the fourth, but fellow redshirt freshman Xavier Lee had no luck moving the 'Noles, either. 
"The only thing I didn't like was that our freshman quarter­backs couldn't hit a receiver," Bowden said. 
Wright wasn't much better until the final Miami drive, when he completed six passes and converted three third downs to put the Hurricanes in position to beat the Noles' for the seventh straight time. 
Wright hooked up with tight end Greg Olsen four times in the 19-play drive that started on the Miami 3 and got the Hurricanes to the Florida State 3. But the Seminoles' ninth sack pushed Miami back and forced the Hurricanes to settle for the field goal attempt. 
Wright finished 16-for-28 for 232 yards and a touchdown pass. Olsen caught eight passes for 137 yards. 
"I don't mean to say anything bad about Florida State," Wright said. "But I don't think the bet­ter team won." 
So, it came down to the defenses and special teams, and even when those units set up their offenses with prime field position, it was no sure thing they'd capitalize. The Seminoles wasted a first-and-goal from the 1 in the third quarter. 
"The defense kept giving us opportunities to win the game," Miami coach Larry Coker said. "We just couldn't get it done." 
Most of the talk leading up to the 50th meeting of Miami and Florida State was about the two first-time starters at quarter­back. And when it took almost 9 minutes for either team to com­plete a pass, it became apparent the offenses were in for a long night against two fast and furi­ous defenses. 
Wright worked through his problems, including two early interceptions and a few dropped passes, long enough to guide an 81-yard touchdown drive in the second quarter. The sopho­more's first career TD pass was a 34-yarder, zipped over a defender to Ryan Moore to make it 10-7. 
The Seminoles had the lead at the half, but the signs weren't good for Florida State. 
Weatherford had completed just three passes for 14 yards while Wright seemed to be capable of making plays when he got help from his line and receivers. 
"I mean we did enough to win and that's all that matters," Weatherford said. 
It looked even more ominous for Florida State when Lawrence Timmons blocked a Miami punt that left the Seminoles with first-and-goal at the 1. 

FSU registers nine sacks in victory over in-state rival Miami 
Associated Press TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -Miami looked ready to break Florida State's heart again, lining up for a tying 28-yard field goal in the waning minutes. 
And with the history of the series and the way the Seminoles were playing offense, it was hard not to like the Miami's chances in overtime. 
But Florida State finally caught a break against Miami. 
After six straight years of frus­trating finishes, the Seminoles found some good fortune against their rivals when the Hurricanes botched that poten­


TiJesday, Septermber 6, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles take learning experiences frotn -weekend losses 
Working 
continued from page 28 
penalties. and with the excep­tion of' the ono that I intontion­ally took in the punt situation to move tlwm back an extra five yards and run of'f' somo more time on the elock, I thought that was an inordinate numlwr of' penaltins. That will not he tolerated. and we'll hav1~ to do much bnttnr if' wn'rn playing a liltln closer game than wn play1~d ISaturdayl." 
On special teams, Wnis point­ed to umlerwhPiming kicking 
by  Carl  (;ioia  and  D . .J.  
Fitzpatrick as a  potential  area  
of' improvenwnt.  

"I thought our biggnst prob­lem physically wnre our kick­niTs," Weis said. "I thought that both kkkors could have done a lwtll~r job kieking the ball." 
In addition, substitution mis­takes marred an otherwise solid special teams perform­ance that includnd a fumbln rneovery on a kickol'f. <)uarterback Brady Quinn made the Panthers pay for the turnover. hitting a crossing Jeff' Samardzija on a 19-yard touchdown strikn that pushed the Irish lead to 28-13 during a 28-point Irish second quar­tor. 
"We had three substitution 
errors, two of them in the punt game," Weis said. "On the first one, we didn't get a guy off the f'ield. We were in nickel defnnse, and we were trying to go to a base defense and play punt safe, but because we were going from third to fourth down from the nickel defense to a regular defense, it caused some confusion that we will practice at this week." 
Weis blamed himself for the miseue. 
'Til take that hit," he said. 
/\n excnssive number of penalties on dnf'ens1~ hurt the Irish at times, preserving Pittsburgh drives and keeping the unit on the field. 
In the end, it was the unnec­essary big-yardage penalties that upset Weis. 
"We had too many penalties on defense," Weis said. "We had about a half dozen, but four of them were major penalties. You just can't get by with a couple pass interference penalties, personal foul and a faemnask. 
Forget about jumping off sides, being overly aggressive. We just can't play winning football in a close game doing that. We need to do a better job there." 
On offense, Weis once again cited penalties, coupled with mental mistakes, as the pri­mary weaknesses of Saturday's effort. 
"Once again, we had too many penalties, we had two majors and two minor penal­ties, which that totals double digit penalties for the team between offense and defense," Weis said. "That's not winning football. /\nd we had more mental errors than I would like to have in a game, especially with a game where you had that much time to prepare for what they were going to do." 
As was the ease with the spe­eial teams substitution mis­take. Wois shouldered the bur­den of' the mistake. 
"As I said ISaturdayl. lthe mental errorl is really a coach­ing error, not a player's error, but as it relates to offense, we had to take two timeouts in the third quarter, whieh I thought that was a bad job by me com­municating to Michael IHaywood I and t-hen on to Brady IQuinn]," Weis said. "I thought I should have done a much better job there." 
Notes: 
+ A week after running back Travis Thomas earned the honor of special teams captain against Pittsburgh, Weis has already selected defensive line­man Casey Cullen as his spe­cial teams captain this week­end against Michigan. 
"I told you on a weekly basis 


By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Wri rer 
l>nf'nats rarely breed eonfi­lhmcn. 
For Saint Mary's volleyball coach Julin Schronder-Biek, however. this weekend's set­
!iPDRT!i® 
BETTING* COM 
www. sp ortsbettinq. com 
Wiln $SfJJD!)DDD 
and a -~lfilJf! -~~ -~he P!f~ Fl~J:JJ~iJJfJbaJJ .AJJ~s~a!f Game 
iln HawaiJiJ 

Additional prizes include: 
• Sony SO" L.CC TV 
• 
SOSE Home Theatre 

• 
HP iPAQ Pocket PC 

• 
Apple iPod 



PLAY FOR FREE AT http:/lwww.sportsbetting.com 
:C:· 20iXl·2DG5 H~!al f-'ntort<Mmen! Ud. N<l Plil'Ct..A.: •. ,--;,··,~u$s.my I!) Eml.:tr t>r w1n Va!!j whon:t prohit!itod 'Oy law Mu1!:! bl!! i:lt ln~a~f 18 yl1f3f'::i old to !)by. 


baeks provide optimism for the Saturday. future. The lone victory for the Belles 
The Belles eompetnd Friday came in the team's final match and Saturday at the Elmhurst Saturday against Blackburn. College Invitational in Despite the three defeats, Elmhurst, Ill. Saint Mary's fell though, Schroeder-Biek was to Wiseonsin-Oshkosh and host pleased with her team's per­Elmhurst on Friday and lost to formance because of the quality tho College of St. Scholastica on of the opposing teams. 
Elmhurst, a traditional Division II volleyball power, is ranked No. 12 by the American Volleyball Coaches Association, while the poll rates Wisconsin­Oshkosh No. 28 nationally. 
Sehroeder-Biek feels Saint Mary's competitive play with such talented teams should translate into suecesses against lesser opponents when confer­ence play begins. 
"Friday night, I was so proud of the team," Sehroeder-Biek said of the Belles' performanc­es against Wisconsin-Oshkosh and Elmhurst. "We played so well, and it was incredibly high caliber volleyball. We chal­lenged them, and that was wonderful for me to see." 
Saint Mary's had some seri­ous questions heading into the tournament. The team did not have a single experienced set­ter on the roster. Schroeder­Biek called on junior Amanda David and was thrilled with the results. 
"She's a great athlete, and she stepped into that role," Schroeder-Biek said. "No one in that gym would have known she was a first-year setter." 
Schroeder-Biek was also happy with the balance her team displayed in the tourna­ment, with many different play­ers chipping in. 
"I can't even say that there was one standout," Schroeder­Biek said. "I just think thny played so well as a team." 
Wisconsin-Oshkosh downed the Belles quickly in three games -30-22, 30-27, 30-14. Outside hitter Michelle Turley and Kristen Playko spearhead­ed the Saint Mary's attack with nine kills apiece in the match. David recorded 27 assists, while junior right side attacker Ann Carpenter finished with an impressive .615 hitting percnnt­age on 8 kills. 
The Belles only lasted three games against Elmhust as well, losing 30-15, 30-25, 30-22. Playko contributed 5 kills and a match high 14 digs. Senior Shelly Bender and freshman Catherine Kurzak both added f'ive kills of their own, while Carpenter paeed Saint Mary's with 7 kills. 
Schroeder-Biek loved the way her team fought it out with a tough Elmhurst squad. 
"They didn't walk all ovnr us by any means," the coach said. "They had to fight for points just like we had to fight for points." 
In Saturday's first match, Saint Mary's was disappointed to again drop three straight games -30-28, 30-27, 32-30. The Belles played evnn with St. Scholastica throughout, but eould not eome up with the big points in the end. Playko again played well with 20 kills, while junior /\nne Cusaek defended nicely with 15 digs. 
Schroeder-Hick wishes things had turned out diffel'l~ntly against St. Scholastica. 
"Any one of those games could have boon ours -it was so tight," Schroeder-Biek said. "That was the only game I can tell you that I'm disappointed 
in." 
Saint Mary's ended the tour­nament on a high note, easily edging a weak Blackburn team -30-7, 30-12, 30-25. Playko recorded 1(> kills, and Carpenter added another 14 digs. 
With MlM play set to open Wednesday against llope Collegn at the /\ngela Athletic Centnr, Schroeder-Biek feels that the experinnee of playing against two top teams this weekend will translate into sig­nificant strides within the con­fnrenee. 
"I just feel like how we playnd Friday night, if wn play likn that we are going to climb up the eonfnrencn ladder and wn are going to challenge for the top," Schrondnr-Bink said. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 
we would single out the guy that played the best on speeial teams and name him as the special teams captain for Michigan, and that person will be Casey Cullen," Weis said. "He played solid on teams all night long, played on all the teams, played really well and made a critical play that helped us win the game." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 6, 2005 
Finnwide lnfonnation Session Learn about our full-time opportunities. Wednesday, September 7, 2005 5:00pm-7:00pm The Morris Inn, Notre Dame Room 
Application Deadline: Monday, September 19, 2005 Apply online at gs.com/careers and through your career service office. 


© Goldrnan, Sachs & Co. 2005. All rights reserved. Goidrnan Sachs IS an equal opportunity employer. 

----------------;---c------­
Tuesday, September 6, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 

Mainieri did something major to motivate his players. 
"I had challenged our team before that last week that we needed to do something for this team to be remembered by," he said. "And I think we did, when you consider we had to win our last four games of the regular season just to make the confer­ence tournament; we beat a top 20 team, Southern Cal and then we went to the conference tour­nament and swept that thing." 
The Irish lost their regional opener to No. 15 North Carolina but battled their way through the loser's bracket to meet Florida in the championship. 
"We ran up against a better ballclub in Florida," Mainieri said. "I think they showed that they were pretty good. There was no shame in losing to those guys. I thought we did a lot of great things at the end of the year and had a lot to bn proud of." 
With a 20-9 career rncord. 146 career strikeouts and 250.1 career innings pitehnd, Thornton looks to hold down a strong Irish pitching stall', which returns 11 of its top pitchers. The Irish also return 1 I top position players and add nine talented freshmon. With the eclectie mix of experi­eneed returnees and promising potential, Thornton and his teammates hope to better last year's results. 
"I think there is that bitter taste in your mouth," he said. "And you really want to look to get over that hump. We've n~ally got a bit of a new attitude this year." 
"This year" for the Irish base­ball team starts this wonk. And Mainieri likes what ho sees so far. 
"I thought the seniors shownd grnat leadership in practice, and it was nice to see the young kids, the freshmen -a lot of reason for optimism. 
"I feel conl'ident that wn're going to have a grnat fall prae­ticfl." 
The positive effect of beginning your career with Ernst & Young is too great to measure. 
Agreat start can take you further. At Ernst & Young we've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. And what we're offering is an opportunity to learn from some of the best talent in the industry. Become a benchmark for success. Visit us on the Web at ey.comjusjcareers, or look for us on campus. 
FORTUNE* 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ 
TO WORK FORR: 

Audit • Tax • Transaction Advisory Services i!J ERNST&YOUNG 
QualityIn Everything We Do 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdor­wart@nd.edu 
Kicker 
continued from page 28 
eligibility, and both jobs will bn up for grabs next season. 
Frank believes Burkhart has a very good chance to assume the starting place-kicking job next season. But he thinks Notre Dame still intends to add a punter to this year's recruit­ing dass. 
"I think they'll look for a punter as well to compete with !Irish junior punter] Geoff Price," Frank said. 
WERNEl!The Observer Tom Thornton, shown here against Connecticut on April 16, turned down a pro contract to return for his senior season. 
Fall 
continued from page 28 
"It's just a wonderful feeling to get out here and put. on the Notre Dame uniform again and be part of this program," said Thornton, a hard-throwing lefty and the staff ace. "That's what it's all about. To me, right now, this is where I belong, and I believe we came here to get together and do something spe­cial this season. 
"It [returning for his senior year] took a little of adjustment to at first, in June, but I definite­ly believe now that this is finally the place for me to be. I'm really excited, especially after getting back and seeing the way the first day !went], the way the guys came on and played with some intensity." 

Fall practice began yesterday for the Irish, and coach Paul Mainieri was pleased with the opening day. 
"It was great, I'll tell you," he said. "We had a great praetiee, one of the best first days of prae­tice I think we've ever had." 
Thornton was equally opti­mistic. 
"We've got a real strong, real young team this year," he said. "I just can't say enough about the new intensity, the new attitude we've got this fall. I think we're really ready to take our game to the next level this year." 
That next level would be a pretty high level. Last season, the Irish finished 
38-24-1, swept through the Big East conference tournament, fin­ished third in the regular season and reached the Gainesville regional final beforfl falling to the host Florida Gators, the eventual national runner-ups. But Maininri agrnes with his vet­eran piteher. 
"Our standards are rnally high at Notre Dame, and we know that there's better for us than what we did last year," he said. "I was really proud of our team at the end of thn year. There were so many times during the course of the year where we could've just packed our tent up and given up, but our guys nevnr did." 
Before the crucial last week of the 2005 season, after such a roller coaster campaign, 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 6, 2005 
Cey 
continued from page 28 
save percentage and six shutouts. All three of those statistics were tops in Irish history. 
Cey also finished second in career games and minutes, 112 and 6,456:04, respective­ly. 
During Notre Dame's miser­able 2004-2005 season, Cey's focus was never questioned, either by him or the coaching staff. 
Notre Dame's previous head coach Dave · 
Poulin always 
"[Cey has] carried 

complimented Cey after losses, the load for us and at the end basically through 
of the. season 
the bulk ofhis whole 

spoke about his 
career. He'll have 

importance to the team an opportunity to throughout his 
play, there is no

time at Notre 
question."

Dame. "He's carried the load for us 
Dave Poulin 

basically 
former Irish coach 

through the bulk of his whole career," Poulin said last February. 
"He'll have an opportunity to play, there is no question. Too many people have seen him play too well over the years. He'll have an opportunity to play professional hockey, and then what he does with that will [be up to] him." 
Well, Poulin was right. 
Cey will join the Lightning, whose roster lists Sean Burke as the backup goaltender to John Grahame. 
Cey had many fine moments 
during his career at Notre Dame. 
Despite an unsuccessful 2004-05 season, Cey stopped 50 shots on Oct. 23, 2004 in the Irish victory over No. 1 ranked Boston College. 
In 2003-2004, during Notre Dame's playoff run, Cey regis­tered two consecutive shutouts on Dec. 28 and Jan. 3. 
He also shutout Miami in back-to-back games of the first round of the CCI-lA play­offs in 2003. 
Cey wasn't the only Irish player to sign a deal with an 
NHLteam. 

Yan Stastny signed a two­year contract with the Edmonton Oilers. This will be his first time playing with an NHL team after playing two years in Germany fol­lowing his colle­giate career. The Boston Bruins drafted Statsny in the eighth round of 
the 2002 NHL Draft. 
Ben Simon and Mark Eaton, who were signed before the NHL lockout, signed deals with the Atlanta Thrashers and Nashville Predators, respec­tively. Both players had been with the teams before the lockout. 
Simon played last year with the Chicago Wolves after spending the previous three with the Atlanta Thrashers. 
Contact BobbyGriffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Duo 
continued from page 28 
dem is deadly. 
"They're great [together]," he said. "They're just very different players. 
"Thorlakson, we're watching Friday night against Florida, ... and we're just kind of looking at each other with a little bit of a half smile on our face," he said of her ability to control the movement of the ball. 
"Hanks -she just plays with the fury and the passion of a young­ster," he continued. 
Though they play somewhat dif­ferently, Irish coach Randy Waldrum thinks their soccer minds are strikingly similar. 
"[Hanks] is just a lot like Katie Thorlakson in that they have a great sense for the game," Waldrum said. That, he said, keeps them on the same page and helps communication on the field. 
That Hanks and Thorlakson play different styles of soccer but work like clockwork together has kept the Irish's first four oppo­nents guessing, and often guessing wrong. 
That should be expected, though, because even their team­mates don't like it when they have to face the dynamic duo working together. 
Thorlakson said that her fellow Irish don't like it when she and Hanks are on the same team in split-squad scrimmages. 
"We just have so much fun together playing soccer," she said .. "So everybody gets mad when we are on the same team in practice because we put the ball away so much." 
She said that the tandem began developing camaraderie in the spring when Hanks arrived on campus after completing a season with the under-19 national team. 


From then onward, the two worked together routinely to pre­pare for the 2005 campaign. 
And the work has paid off. 

In the team's season-opener, Thorlakson matched a career high with eight points (2G-4A), and Hanks netted a hat trick and an assist en route to an 11-1 victory over New Hampshire. 
Thorlakson said she doesn't feel as much a burden in having to carry an offense, and Hanks has enjoyed the freedom Thorlakson has been given, capitalizing on feeds and crosses from the All­American senior. 
"Hanks takes a lot of pressure off of me," Thorlakson said. "It's great playing with her; its really fun. We get to improvise on a lot of stuff. " 
After Hanks scored seven goals in her first two games, Waldrum credited teammates, including Thorlakson, for helping to set up scoring opportunities. 
"She got put in some great posi­tions for a couple of her goals [by] her teammates," he said. 

Two of her frrst three goals of the season were assisted by Thorlakson, as was her first of two Sunday against Maryland. 
But for both, the expectations were high coming into the season. 
Thorlakson was picked as the preseason Big East Player of the Year and All-American. Hanks had high expectations from the Irish coaching staff. 
"It's not something you can expect week in and week out," Waldrum said of Hanks' seven goals in two games to start the season, "but these are the things we . . . expected Kerri to do for us from time to time." 
Thus far, the two of them have equaled and exceeded every ~xpectation coming into the sea­son.. Their biggest test comes this Friday against No. 5 Santa Clara in the Santa Clara Adidas Classic. But Hanks and Thorlakson have already proven they're ready. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler@nd.edu 


Each concession stand group must have at least two students trained ·*AH traininab from the spring is still valid for the 2005 Football season 
Questions? Jmm(Jer Royer 
StudentAt~tivith-s Q{fice jrager1 @nd.edu 

Tuesday, September 6, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 

JOCKULAR ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
I'M SORRY 
· ~~~/r;yir1), .. 
! 
I PEED INTO YOUR LAUNDRY HAMPER 
7;;, rlntltk-rlia/i;ty fNII' rn·lrr.._;.;, 

CROSSIANTWORLD 
N M'/ BOO~ "1>0 70u'll.. I \i:'LL -rHE M --ro MS", I TE.LL VJATCH ME. 'WINI'IIN.4 OPLE.. TO C:.to FQI'!-. ·niE~-1-\EISMI'.N -n<:oPH'/ IN '' ~UD'f" FOf. IN5f>l "All ON . 
CROSSWORD 
1 Electronic 64 Engine speed, journals 33 Stat for Ali for short 
34 Science class 65 Lustful looker

6 Stretchy candy feature 
66 Dutch pottery

11 The elder Geo. Bush once 67 It's definite
37 Pair of sneakers?

headed it 
68 Ostentatious 42 Lome Michaels

14 Lover boy 69 Low cards
show, for short 15 Trixie's best 
43 Neckline shape

friend, on TV 
DOWN 
44 Took to the 

16 Some rush-hour 1 Knitted body
station house 

periods: Abbr. part45 Confessed, with 17 Pair of socks? 2 Actress
"up" Anderson19 Sch. in Troy, 48 Caught, as with N.Y. 
3 Divine sign
a tree limb 4 Wise up

20 Comes out on 50 "March!" opener top 5 Piglet's mother
52 Time's partner, 21 Funny Conway in brief 6 Gimme putts 
53 Means to 7 Homecoming22 Called strikes guest

and balls solving a sudoku puzzle a Swimming aid
24 It turns the tide 54 I love, in Mexico 9 Obscenity26 Frog-to-be 
watcher: Abbr.

55 "Tasca" number 28 Spears 1oViolinist
59 Britney Spears's
.. Menuhin

31 Architect Jones Slave 4 U" 11 Fuel-saving 
strategy

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
12 Motivate 
13 Stage mutter 
18 Plains tribe 
23 Driver's stat. 
25 Pearl Buck heroine 
26 Polynesian pendant 
27 See 38-Down 

..;+;,::+;;.~ 28 Bratty types 
"!"!'P~::-:+.::-t.llll-:::ta~ 29 Nasty 
-:':+-:::+:rl-::-t 30 Charades, e.g. 
-::+::+.i:-t-i::-1 33 Philosopher Lao-_ 

THE OBSERVER 
WAll 1 WEf!,£N'T '/0\J. ONL'j IN IWO f'lA'jS P..T Tt-\~ E.N.!> OF A C:.tA M f.' WE. 
ALf.EA J> 'f 'NON ! 
WILLSHORTZ 


35 French gal pal 41 Linen pulp 54 Not many product 
56 Be a monarch 46 It ended at 36 Give a bit 57 In doubt

38 and 11:00 on 11/11 27-Down (for all 58 Backs of boats
47 Crispy snacks

time) 61 "lck!"
48 Beatified mother 

39 Comic Foxx 62 Andy Capp's
49 Dodge model 
wife40 Burn the 50 Coquette

midnight oil, 63 Banned 
student-style 51 Get-up-and-go insecticide 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

Published Monday through Friday, The Obsorver is a vital source of information on poople and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
MY BAD, DUDE, 


FOR HOOKING UP WITH YOUR LIL' SIS ON HER VISIT. 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJ~mllil! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 


•
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
WEELJ 
j
I I r rJ 
C2005 Tribuna Media Services, Inc. AU Rights Reserved. 
DEKEY 
1 j
rJ () 
INLATE 
THE: Ve:TE:RAN C.ON­DUC.TO!<. BE:C.AME: 
1 ri () 
AN E:NGINE:£::1<. 
www.jumble.com 
BE:C.AUSE: HE: WAS--­
t tJURNIY 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I J I J I 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
A:[ I I I]"[ I I I I I I]" 
I 
(Answers Monday) Jumbles: TWEET STAID FACING INTONEYesterday's 
Answer: When he was stood up, he took it­SITIINGDOWN 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Rose McGowan, 32; Dweezil Zappa, 36; Cathy Guisewite, 55; Bob Newhart, 76 
Happy Birthday: Keep everything in check regarding lll:alth; finances and legal matters this year. Ifyou don't keep on top of pending problems, you will not he able to take advantage of opportunities headed your way. Counteract your limitations by relying on friends. Your numbers arc I, 4, 13, 23, 36,40 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): There arc many opportunities to make personal· improvements in your life. An opportunity to travel to help someone will enable you to meet others with the drive and Good Samaritan attitude you share. * * * TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Be relentless .... you have so much happening where work and making money arc concerned. Position yourself for advancement. Maintain a healthy lifestyle. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't let someone sabotage what you arc trying to accomplish. Take control and put anyone who tries to oppose you in his or her place.***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): It's up to you to find the infi.>rmation you need to get things back on track. Someone is overreacting, and it may he you. You may want to reassess your personal situation. * * LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Position yourself for stardom. Focus on what you have to do to stand out from your peers. You can't go wrong ifyou arc helpful, understanding and wear a big smile on your face. * * * * VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): When it comes to business-related math:rs, trust your intuition. You can and will get ahead ifyou don't allow others do what you are capable ofdoing yourself Be a little more creative in your delivery. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): So much is happening that it will be hard ll1r you to stay on top ofeverything. Trust in the people you feel arc most creative and you can pull together a detailed and progressive concept. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): An investment can pay off. A chance to develop or start something new at home appears to have a very prosperous future. Don't trust anyone who is promising you too much. Get everything in writing. ••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be feeling like making a commitment, but give yourself time to really assess the situation. Love is sizzling hot, but don't make unrealistic promises. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will find yourself in an awkward position ifyou're too willing to take on other people's responsibilities. Make sure you don't fall behind because you've been too generous with your time. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Things looks promising today, but don't waste time basking in the limelight. Ifyou present your ideas, you will get a favorable response.***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Everything depends on how you handle important matters today. Address legal, health and financial concerns. The dynamics of a relationship are likely to change rapidly.*** 
Birthday Baby: You are dependable and responsible, a no-nonsense person with tons of creativity. You are a doer, a challenger and a competitor. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comjhrfun. eugenialast.comjiJr confidential consultations 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55_ for one semester 
Name ______________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, September 6, 2005 
page 28 
• FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Irish ink kicking recruit in -wake of Pittsburgh victory 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
Notre Dame picked up anoth­er recruit Sunday when kicker Hyan Burkhart verbally com­mitted to the Irish. 
Burkhart, from Northwood (Ind.) High School, is the 13th verbal commitment of 2005 for 

Irish coach Charlie Weis and his staff. Recruits are not allowed to sign an official letter of intent ·until Feb. 1. 
The 5-foot-11, 185-pound 
senior made a good impression 
on Notre Dame coaches when 
he participated in their football 
camp this summer, according to 
Mike Frank of Irish eyes. com. 
"He's got a big leg, and I think [the Irish coaches] realize how important that is," Frank said. "The staff has the confidence in having seen him kick in person before, not just on tape. He's got the type of leg that can kick the ball through the end zone on a consistent basis." · 
According to F'rank, Notre Dame had already offered a 
scholarship to kicker Kai Forbath of Notre Dame High School in Sherman Oaks, Calif. But Forbath, who has offers from the likes of USC, LSU, UCLA and Cal, had not made up his mind on whether he wanted to commit to the Irish. So Weis went ahead and extended an offer to Burkhart, who has already booted four field goals on five attempts this season ­including a 53-yarder. 
"I think the coaches realized that Burkhart is just as good as [Forbath]," Frank said. 
D.J. Fitzpatrick is handling the kicking and punting duties for the Irish this season. However, this is his last year of 
see RECRUITING/page 25 
FOOTBALL 

Back to the grind 
Instead of basking in Saturday's win, the team is back to work 
By MATT PUGLISI Associate Sports Editor 
Nobody's perfect. 
For as well as Notre Dame played in Saturday night's 42­21 thumping of Pittsburgh at· Heinz Field, Irish coach Charlie Weis realizes the Irish still have some work to do. At Sunday's press conference, Weis detailed a handful of facets on offense, defense and special teams that could use improvement, especially con­sidering the daunting task awaiting the Irish this week­end: a date with No. 4 Michigan at the Big House. 
"There were a couple of major concerns -one was the volume of penalties," Weis said. "There were 10 accepted 
see WORKING/page 23 


ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

High-povvered offense features two top stars 
BASEBALL 
Dian1ond beckons to 
•
seru_or ace 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
Tom Thornton wears a coat of many colors. 
In June, he negotiated with the Chicago White Sox on a pos­sible contract but deeided to return f'or his senior year at Notre Dame. 
Instead of playing in the Cape Cod Summer League for the rest of the break, he knew he needed to rest his well-used arm. So, he interned with the Smithsonian in Colorado, "doing some arche­ology out there," he said. 
Now, he's back with his Irish teammates at fall practice, wearing the coat he says fits him best -a Notre Dame jer­sey. 
see FALL/page 25 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Irish forwards Katie Thorlakson and Kerri Hanks have combined for 38 points in just four games. 
At this pace, they will each break the Division 1-A single-sea­son points-per-game record. 
Thorlakson has five goals and seven assists (17 points) in her senior campaign, while IIanks has netted 10 goals and an assist (21 points) in her f.trst four collegiate games. 
And two of those games have come against top-25 opponents. 

Hanks earned National Player of the Week honors after her first two games, in which she netted seven goals and an assist. 
Thorlakson followed that up with a three-goal, three-assist performance in the Inn at Saint Mary's Classic to earn the tourna­ment's oflimsive MVP award. 
After Hanks managed to get off 12 shots -five of which were on 
· goal -and Thorlakson scored twice in Notre Dame's 6-0 drub­bing of Maryland Sunday, Terrapin coach Brian Pensky said that the way they work as a tan-
see HANKS/page 26 
HOCKEY 

Cey selected in NHL draft 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
Morgan Cey could flat out play at the college level. 
There was never any dispute to his talent, and despite the fact that his team only had five wins, it was never his fault. · 
The Tampa Bay Lightning saw this in Cey, as well, and inked him to a multi-year contract announced Aug. 26. 
Cey finished his career with the Irish as one of the finest goalies to ever come through Notre Dame, posting a 2. 79 goals-against average, a .912 
see CEYIpage 26 



SMC VOllEYBAU..  ClUB SPORTS  MLB-Al  MlB-~l  NFl  ~~-~~..  
LLI  
Co) z::5 =  Team bounces back from losses The Belles are treating  The field hockey team traveled to Tennessee for a tournament  Mariners 2 Athletics 0 Felix Hernandez pitches seven scoreless  Braves 4 Mets 2 Chipper Jones lifts Braves with homer in  Hurricane update ·The Saints search for a new home after the  Olympic tryouts begin Thirty-nine NHL  
~  the  tough  Elmhurst  against Vanderbilt and  innings in a Mariners  eighth.  devastating Hurricane  players vie for spots on  
=:  Invitational as a chance to learn. page 23  finished the trip 2-2. page 22  victory.  page 17  page 17  Katrina damaged the Superdome. page 21  the 2006 U.S. Olympic team. page 19  




