.------------------------~----------~-----­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
I\ Crime and ~~~ ~~ 
f.: t :\., A six-part series on discipline at Notre Dame "' 
Dorm life, policies elicit mixed emotions 
Students, administrators grapple with disciplinaryfuture 

By MADDIE HANNA 
Associate News Editor 
And our hearts forever, love thee, Notre Dame. 
It's a lyric that evokes emotion for tens of thousands of swaying, fist­pounding fans at the closn of home foot­ball games. But even among the ranks of the Notre Dame faithful, there are disillusioned students fi1r whom ''forev­er" has lost il<> meaning. 
"I love this place, and now I'm to the point where I'm going to transfer ... I nnvnr thought I'd bn horn." said a male junior who wished to remain anony­mous. "It makes me sad. At this point last year, I wantnd to stay in college for­ever. Now I can't wait to get out." 
The junior, who recently paid his 


Faith, feminism fuse at SMC 
Students juggle Catholicism and women's issues at Saint Mary's 
By EMILY LAVELLE and 
LAUREN LAVELLE 
Nt·ws Wrircrs 
Hditor :-; Note: This is the third in a t.hre('-part. series examining th1• p1•rn•ption offeminism within th1• .\'airll Mary's community. 
Somn students at Saint Mary's Collnge lind it dillkult to inmrpo­ratn fnminist ideals into their Catholic lili~stylPs bnr.ausn the two smnnti11111s have dillP.mnt stancns on social issuns -finding a bal­anen can bn tri1~ky. they said. 
But many students at the Collngn daim fnminism can 

KELLY HIGGINSfThe Observer 

A Mass held at Saint Mary's Thursday juxtaposes the College's see FAITH/page 6 Catholic identity with its status as a women's Institution. 
fourth visit to the Ollice of Hesidence Life and Housing, said he felt the University had been excessively severe and unreasonable given his particular violations. 
lie represents three generations of Domers, but he thinks it might end there. 
"Which is really sad, for the futurn," he said. "Kids like me are going to leave this school, and I don't know if I want my kids to come here." 
It's not every studnnt, or even a m<~jority of students. But students who are frustrated with the University's rnsi­dential systmn and disciplinary polides raise important questions about what direction Notre Dame will take in tho futum. 
see FUTURE/page I 0 

Final gallle prolllpts nostalgia frolll seniors 
By KATIE PERRY 
Assistant News Editor 

Within the walls of Notre Dame Stadium Saturday, amidst a sea of people who overlook a sea of gilded hnl­mets, thousands of seniors will bid farewell to a tradition chor­ished for four years -but memories made under blue­grey skies won't bn as fleeting. 
"Despite feeling bittersweet about it being thn last game, it's going to be really awesome reminiscing about four ynars of football -even if two of those years weren't so good," senior Dan Tudesco said. "You can't really be too sad when you'vn gottnn up at R a.m. and had a great time with your elosest friends for 24 Saturdays of your coiiP.gn earner." 
Saturday's 2:30 p.m. kickoiT against Syracuse will mark thn bnginning of the end li1r nnarly a quarter of NotrP. I>amp,'s undergraduate studnnt body . Seniors said though they arn excited for the game, football nostalgia has alrnady bngun to set in. 
"I have my usual exdtnnwnt heading into the game, but along with that is a sadness at it bning the last gamn," snnior Nick l'lantan said. "I'm not ready to be donn standing in 
see FOOTBALL/page 8 


Minorities now urban majority, expert says 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Stanford professor Albert Camarillo said Thursday that due to demographic changes, raeial populations gnnerally considered minorities in the United States now rnakn up the majority in urban areas. 
In a lecturn at McKenna llall, Camarillo usnd U.S. Census statis­tics to show thn drarnatie increase of minorities in such areas. In 1970, the 20 largest United States dties were eomprisnd of 38 per­cent minorities, but in 2000 the minority population grew to 60 percent. he said. 
"It's going to mean greater interaction between various minorities that now constitute the n!~jo~ties o~ the country's largest CitieS, he Said. 
Camarillo demonstrated this new racial distribution through racial demographies in Compton, located in the mntropolitan eenter of Los Angeles County. Born and raised in Compton, Camarillo said his interest in the sociology of the dty began when he returned after 30 years away to find a different 
see RACE/page 8 

Vet, 75, proud to be ND-enrolled 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
When Ralph "Lefty" Guillette tells people he's a student at Notre Dame, he usually gets the once­over and a response along the lines of "Yeah, right." 
But Guillette can't blame them. After all, he is 75 years old. 
"I show them my student 

J.D. and say, 'Eat your heart out -I'm a stu­dent,"' he said. 
In mid-July 2005, Guillette was accepted to 
see LEFTY/page 9 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, November 18, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOUR THOUGHTS ON THE LAST HOME GAME OF THE SEASON? 

Wash the 'wave' out 
It started out like any other beautiful Saturday afternoon at Notre Dame Stadium. The sun was shining, I couldn't see my own breath and the two girls in front of me who find their cell phones more fascinating than the sixth-best Jack Thornton football team in the 
country decided to Sports Writer 
leave early. It was just another Notre 
Dame romp, going off without a hitch. 
And then it happened -people start­ed doing the wave. I never thought I'd see the day when I would yell at the alumni to sit down, but low and behold, all of Notre Dame Stadium was jumping up and down as if University President Father John Jenkins had cancelled classes for the Wednesday before Thanksgiving (please?). 
The Chambers 21st Century Dictionary defines the wave as "a rip­pling wave effect that passes right around a stadium full of spectators, achieved when all the spectators in turn stand up with their arms raised and then sit down again with their arms lowered." Thanks Chambers, but here's my definition of the wave: stupid. 
Notre Dame has a long history of tough guys: Sthuldreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden, not to mention Gipp, Parseghian, Bettis and Weis. 
And then this is the best we fans can do? Flail our arms effeminately and make a noise the Pillsbury Doughboy copyrighted years ago'? It's enough to make Knute Rockne cry. 
According to Tony Burton, author of "Western Mexico: A Traveler's Treasury," the wave first started pop­ping up in the 1980s. 
Willie no one is entirely sure who gave rise to the very first wave, those claim­ing responsibility are the Oakland Raiders, the Seattle Mariners and the University of Washington. 
Think about those origins for a sec­ond. First, anything to come out of 1980s pop culture is tacky and lame. I mean fanny packs? Are you serious? Second, it figures that the same geniuses who hired Tyrone Willingham in 2005 also unleashed the low-point of human expression that is the wave. 
The wave is done when one team is being blown out and the crowd has lost interest in the game. Thus, doing the wave is either a sign of disrespect to the away team or a sign of giving up on the home team. The wave doesn't belong in Notre Dame Stadium, where we respect our opponents and we worship our foot­ball team. It's like someone starting the "arm wave" in the middle of the Our Father at the Basilica. 
It's no coincidence that immediately after the crowd started doing the wave, Brady Quinn threw his first interception in 131 attempts. The football gods had to punish our infidelity, so they came down from their heavens and clipped Brady Quinn's anatomically perfect right arm so that the ball would land in the waiting hands of Navy's DuJuan Price. 
If you want to do the wave, go to Wisconsin, but ifyou want to see college football the way it was meant to be, then come the University of Notre Dame, where tradition means a little more. Oh, and alumni? Now you can stand up. 
Contact Jack Thornton at jthornt4@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 





Matthew Zill  Brendan Devitt  Margaret Morgan  Emily Newport  Dana Gusky  
freshman Dillon  freshman Dillon  senior Lewis  freshman Lewis  freshman Lewis  
"It makes me sad to see Samardzija's year end.''  "I hope it snows at the game. "  "It'll be sad, but at least it's a big rivalry to finish on."  "It's sad, but there's still the next three years.  "There goes my , eye candy.  

Singapore seeks to flush long toilet lines 
SINGAPORE -After launching "Happy Toilet" rankings sinlilar to hotel star ratings and directing tourists to the cleanest commodes in Singapore, the city-state is now aiming to flush away yet another problem when nature calls: queues at women's toilets. 
"Today in modern Singapore we are privileged to have adequate public toi­lets to keep our privacy and dignity," the local branch of the World Toilet Organization said in a state­ment. 
"Looking closer, women 
TODAY £t: 


thought I was talking to a ghost," Verna McCowan said. 
Oakland police on Tuesday bungled the identification of a man shot to death after finding Sheppard's identifi­cation card on the victim. Authorities alerted his moth­er of the shooting, and released the details to reporters. 
Sheppard, 23, said he was shocked when he walked up to a group of friends on Wednesday who were crying while reading a newspaper account of his death. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

here still have to queue up to use the public toilets now. It's a common sight. And men do not," it said. 
The city-state's National Environment Agency, in col­laboration with the local branch of the World Toilet Organization, has its sights set on whittling down the waiting time for women in public restrooms. 
Man calls mom after he was reported dead 
OAKLAND, Calif. Anthony Sheppard shocked his mother this week with a telephone call, a day after he was reported dead. 
"When he called me I 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
Ill ::1: 
!;;: 
Ill 

3: 
...I <C 
(,) 






0 

HIGH 35 30 HIGH HIGH
...I 
LOW 28 15 LOW LOW 
HIGH LOW 
40 29 
42 
23 

IN BRIEF 

University President Emeritus Father Edward Malloy will be signing copies of his new book, "Monk's Notre Dame," today from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. in Hammes Bookstore. 
The Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra will hold a concert tonight at 9. 
p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall. General tickets $8 for fac­ulty and staff and $3 for stu­dents. 
Asian Allure, an event cele­brating Asian heritage and cul­ture at Notre Dame, will take place tonight at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
A TRANSPO bus will provide transportation to Alumni Field for students who wish to attend the men's and women's NCAA Tournament soccer games tonight at 5 p.m. and 7:30 p.m., respectively. The loop will run from 4 p.m. to approxi­mately 9 p.m. and will make stops at Library Circle, the Grotto and McKenna Hall. 
The Irish men's basketball team will face Lafayette in Notre Dame's season opener at 2 p.m. Sunday at the Joyce Center. Notre Dame defeated Lewis and Quincy in exhibition match-ups earlier this month. 
The Vienna Choir Boys, tout­ed as one of the most celebrat­ed children's choirs in the world, will kick off the holiday season in 3 p.m. performance on Sunday, Nov. 27 at the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

45 38 28 22 


Atlanta 54 I 31 Boston 42 I 31 Chicago 391 19 Denver 54 I 25 Houston 71 I 40 Los Angeles 84153 Minneapolis 361 18 New York 46 I 32 Philadelphia 43 I 28 Phoenix 81 I 53 Seattle 47 138 St. Louis 49 I 26 Tampa 75 1 55 Washington 48 126 

Friday, November 18, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Iraq w-eapons search leader to visit catnpus 
Special to The Ohscrver 
David Kay, snnior rnsnarch fill­low at the Potomac Institute for Policy Studins and limnnr hnad of tlw U.S. dl"ort to lind WP.apons of mass dnstruelion in Iraq, will pmsnnt a lncturn titlnd "What is llw Futurn of Non-Proliferation'!" at 7:30 p.m. Monday in the McKenna Hall auditorium at Notrn Damn. 
Thn presnntation is free and opnn to the public as part of a 10­ledure snries titled "Thoughts on tlw Unthinkabln: Pnrspeetives on Nudnar Wmtpons and Warfare." It is sponsornd by the Dnpartrnnnt of Physics, Center [(Jr Soeial Conenrns, College of' Seinncn and Hnilly Centnr for Sdm11:e Tnchnolo1-,ry and Values. 
In .Junn 200:{. Prnsidnnt Bush dirnctnd that ovnrsight of the hunt for Iraqi weapons of mass dnstruction (WMI>s) be trans­fnrrnd from tho Defense Dnpartnwnt to the Central lntnllignnen Agency (CIA), after which tlw dirnctor of the CIA appointml Kay to lead the search and dirnet tlw aelivities of' the 1.400-rnnmhnr Iraq Survey (;roup. Kay rnportnd in January 2004 that thern had bnen no stockpiles of WMI>s in Iraq at the timn of tlw U.S. invasion of the country and resigrwd his posi­tion. Tlw rnport led to Congrnssional hmtrings and the appointnwnt of an indnpendent commission to invnstigate the eausns of U.S. intdligm1ce fail­urns prior to thn war. as well as 

how this intelligence was com­municated and used by policy­makers. 
Kay earned his bachelor's degree from the University of' Texas and his master's and doc­toral degrees in international all"airs from Columbia University. lie served as the chief' nuclear weapons inspector for the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the United Nations Special Commission, leading numerous inspections into Iraq al'ter the first Gulf War to determine Iraqi nuclear weapons production capability. While in Iraq, he led teams that found and identified the scope and extent of Iraqi uranium enrichment activities, locatnd the major Iraqi center for assembly of nuelear weapons, and seized numerous documents on the Iraqi nuclear weapons programs. At one point, hn spent four days as a hostage in a Baghdad park­ing lot. 
Kay has 15 years of' manage­ment experience with interna­tional organizations and trade assoeiations and has received thn IAEA's Distinguished Service Award and a commendation from the U.S. Secretary of State. lie also has served on the Defense Sciencn Board, the U.S. State Department's Advisory Commission on International Organizations, the Hockefeller Foundation's Advisory Group on Conflicts in International Relations, and the U.S. delegation to the UN Gennral Assembly. 

GE vice president speaks at SMC 
Susan Peters, a notable alumna, lectures on leadership development 
By SARAH VOSS News Writer 
Susan Peters, alumna of' Saint Mary's Class of' 1975 and vice president of execu­tive development at General Electric Company (GE) spoke about the roles of women in corporate America at the Moreau Center for the Arts Thursday. 
Peters' lecture, "Leader­ship Development," was part of the 2005 Shannon Executive Scholar Lecture, an honor granted annually to a Saint Mary's alumna who has achieved exceptional success in the professional world. 
Peters spoke to the audi­ence about what she recog­nizes as good leadership skills among the CEOs and other top executives. She said skills such as problem-solving, courage, motivation, willing­ness to learn> effective com­munication and tenacity are valuable traits for manage­ment and executive positions. 
"Find a place where early experiences give you stretch opportunities, because that's where development takes place," Peters said. 
Peters said Saint Mary's students have above average "performance, values and integrity -which are [their] tickets into the game." 
She said the important thing is what happens with a 


given ticket of' talents ­
whether it is wasted or  uti­ 
lized ef!ieiently.  
Peters  emphasized  the  

importance of providing a positi"e place for everyone in the workplace. 
"Provide an environmnnt where everyonn can excel," she said. 
There is value in real-life experience in conjunction with formal education. she said. 
"You can sit in a lot of class­rooms or training sessions, but your development will happen each and every day," Peters said. 
Peters said good leaders are abl1~ to swallow their pride and that "it's OK to say, 'I don't know."' 
"Every leader is also a 
worker," she said. 
Petnrs' messagn rnsonatnd with many senior busirwss majors in the audinnce. 
"Bning a senior and know­ing that we'll be working at a company in less than a ynar, [Peters! gavn good points on how to handln yoursnlf and how to work your way up," senior Bridget Boyce said. 
Snnior Mngan Md>i!Tntt said Pnters had "a lot of valuabln insights" on thn business world. 
"A lot of things she spokn about we had talknd about in businnss classes, and it was groat to sne that what wn lnarn in dass is applicabln in thn rnal world," shn said. 
Contact Sarah Voss at svossO I @saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS Friday, November 18, 2005 

SISTAR grant recipients present results at SMC 
basis. in a foreign language class, stu­ideas about the culture and lan­
By LISA GALLAGHER 
Students will read "To Kill a dents cannot magically be guage they are studying. She 
News Writer 
Mockingbird" in conjunction transported to a cultural under­will then be able to evaluate with the theme "You Can't standing. whether studying a foreign lan­Three faculty-student team Really Know a Person Until You McGee said she wanted to guage fosters development in recipients of the 2005 Student Have Walked in Their Shoes," study the impact of cultural cultural sensitivity. Independent Study and and use the theme to gain a sensitivity of high school stu­Kurt Buhring, assistant profes­Research (SISTAR) grants pre­deeper understanding of oth­dents. She traveled for two sor of religious studies, sented their research and find­ers. weeks through rural England, received the Maryjeanne R. ings in VanderVennet Theatre "Kids need to know where France and Spain with 16 stu­Burke and Daughters SISTAR at Saint Mary's Thursday. things are going," Condon said. dents from Vail Award, which According to the Center for "I think [this project] will have Christian High assists an Academic Innovation, the a huge affect on the way I School in her home­untenured fac­grants are awarded to support teach; teaching the heart, not town of Vail, Colo. "There are lots of ulty member in research and study for two just the head." McGee said the different ways of his or her stu­months during the summer. Green began her study in her students would like­dent partner­
understanding God 
The experience helps foster the class Theory and Practice ly develop a higher ship.
-this is just one
student's personal development Service-Learning Pedagogy. level of cultural Along with as a confident independent Using student responses and sensitivity through­ofthem.,,. senior scholar, and the faculty mem­data, Green noted an increase out the trip and Sinnamon ber also benefits in the students' post-trip reflections. Wolfe, the team
Kurt Buhring 
from collaborat-own personal Using qualitative focused their 
assistant professor 
ing "Yith an awareness, in and quantitative research on
"/ think [this project] 
advanced stu­the respect evidence, she found divine and dent. will have a huge between teach­there was a high human respons­Dr. Kitty effect on the way I ers and students, discrepancy between the stu­es to human suffering in libera­Green, assistant in class unity dents' perceived sensitivity tion theology and process theol­
teach; teaching the 
professor in the and in the toward a culture and their ogy. The team struggled with
heart, not just the
Education appreciation for actual developing sensitivity. the question of why suffering, Department, and head.,, students' roles in There was also an increase in injustices and oppression are senior Lauren the community. defensiveness and a decrease in present in the world. Condon are Though the minimization, the idea that "we Wolfe said she has learned it
Lauren Condon 

using multicul­team has not are all the same." is everyone's responsibility to 
senior

tural service decided on a McGee said the high school act and respond to suffering learning to con-conference to students made broad general­and oppression in the world. nect teachers, present its find­izations about different cultures Liberation theology focuses on students and communities. ings, it is looking toward the and clung to negative experi­the idea that Jesus identifies During the summer, Green and spring. Condon said she would ences, such as the London with the poor and oppressed. Condon collaborated to design like to report her findings in a bombings, but did nnt cling to "[People] understand God in a unit that will be implemented journal of education. stereotypes. the traditional sense," Buhring in three high school English Dr. Mana Derakhshani, asso­Derakhshani conducts her said. "There are lots of different classes. ciate professor of French, and research in the college setting. ways of understanding God -
Condon said many of the stu­senior Megan McGee's research Though her research will not this is just one of them," he dents she will be working with is themed "A Magic Carpet be complete until the end of the said. have no interest in school. They Ride." The idea derived from an spring semester, her method is do not hand in their work and article of the same title that to ask students in her French Contact Lisa Gallagher at do not attend class on a regular said through 'teaching culture and Italian classes their initial lgallaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Education trial affects 10 states 
Associated Press WASHINGTON -In a feder­al experiment, up to 10 states will be allowed to change how they measure yearly student progress, the cornerstone of President Bush's education law, The Associated Press has learned. The latest shift in enforce­ment of the No Child Left Behind law, to be announced Friday, is significant politically. Frustrated states have been pleading for permission to try this "growth model," which may make it easier for them to meet their goals and avoid penalties. Education Secretary Mar­garet Spellings plans to let states apply for the right to measure how much progress individual students make over time, as they move between grades. Currently, schools are judged based on how today's students compare to last year's stu­dents in math and reading ­such as fourth-graders in 2005 versus fourth-graders in 2004. Many state leaders don't like comparing two different groups of kids because there's no regard given to changes in population or credit given for kids who make gains but fall short. 
Fall 2005 Schedule 
Experience an intimate discussion witl1 Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some of tl1e most pressing issues of our times. 
'k""

~ 9/17-Michigan State
Lb... 

Linda Przybyszewski, Associate Professor ofHistory
ttyast: The Art of. 
"Catholics, Concubines, and the Constitution: 19th-Century Bartles over Church and State" 

Maria Tomasula'' 10/15-USC Thomas Slaughter, Andrew V. Tackes Professor ofHistory "Exploring Lewis and Clark" 
Maria Tomasula 10/22-BYU
Michael P. Grace Associate Professor of 
James MCKenna, Rev. Edmund P. jcryce, CS. C, Professor of Art, Art History and Design Anthropology 
"Caring for Babies, Caring for Parents: What Human Infants Really Need and Why" 
An award-winning painter, Tomasula s 
11/5-Tennessee work recalls the work of18th and early Julia Braungart·Rieker, Professor ofPsychology, Associate Dean ofArts and Letters
19th-century Spanish Baroque religious 
"Understanding Personality and Emotional painters. Her presentation will explore the Development in Babies and Children" 
inspiration and technique ofher highly 11/12-Navy Lawrence Cunningham, john A. O'Brien Professor ofTheology
stylized, symbolic compositions. The pre­
M. Cathleen Kaveny, john EMurphy Foundation Professor ofLaw,
sentation, held in the Snite Museum of Rev. Richard McBrien, Crowley-O'Brien Professor ofTheology ''A Change at the Top: Pope Benedict XVT'(Snite Museum of Art)
Art, will include slides ofTomasula s 
11/19-Syracuse
work. 

MariaTomasula, Michael P. Grace Associate Professor ofArt, Art History and Design 
"Vast: The Art of Maria Tomasula" (Snite Museum ofArt) 
For more information, visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu 3-1/2 hours before kickoff at the auditorium in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies (unless otherwise noted). For more information, visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
'VNOTREDAME 










ORLD & NATION 
Friday, November 18, 2005 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Shiites warned to stay out of security 
BAGIIDAI> -The Iraqi government has promised to investigate detention faeilities across tho 1:ountry to nnsure prisoners are not tortured, the United States said Thursday, sharply warning Iraqi oflieials against allowing Shiite militias a role in the security serviens following allegations of torture of Sunni Arabs. 
The lntnrior Minister, who is in eharge of the f'aeilities and security f'orees, said torture dairns wen~ exaggerated. 
Sectarian rhetoric sharpened four days after 
U.S. troops found up to 173 malnourished detainees -some showing signs or torture ­in an Interior Ministry building in the capital's .ladriyah district. Most were believed to be Sunni Arabs, the main group in the insur­gency. 
French women are double victims 
SAINT-DENIS -Fifteen-year-old Hawa risks verbal abuse -or worse -every time she lnavns hnr house wearing jeans. Jenah was thrown out of the family home at 11, becamn a drug dealer at 13, and was raped by a relative a year later. 
If young mnn in France's poor housing projects -somes of three weeks of nightly arson and unn~st -have it rough, girls often have it worsn. Not only do they suffer from raeism, unemployment and deprivation: Thny also endure daily harassment and even violence in their own communities. 
"Women arn double victims, of social and sexual discrimination as well as violence," said Fadela Amara, founder of "Ni Putes, Ni Sournises" (NeithHr a Whore nor a Submissive), a group lighting to improve the lot of Muslim women and girls in impover­ished French neighborhoods. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Former South Bend priest convicted 
MESA -A Homan Catholic priest was found guilty Thursday of sexually abusing boys in hL'i Arizona parishes after a trial which indud1~d tes­timony from four Indiana men who said they w1~rn also molested by thn priest years before. 
Jurors liluml the Hev. Paul LeBrun guilty after thrm~ weeks of testimony. LeBrun, 49, has bmm jailed since 2003, and now faces between H1 and I I 0 years in prison. LeBrun was posted at l.ittle Flower Catholic Church in South Bend bnlim1 being rmnov1~d from public ministry in I'JIJIJ. 
Although he has bmm stripped of his prinstly duties, LeBrun remains a member of the ( :atholir dergy. 

Americans unprepared for disaster 
WA..'illlNGTON -A majority of Americans say tlwy arn no bntter prepared f(Jr a disaster than th11y were before llurrieane Katrina and have less eonlidence in their government to protect thmn. 
Ynt most people will keep relying on state and lo(:al ollidals in the immediate aftermath of a t(wrorist attack or natural disaster, according to two polls and an aceompanying analysis by New York University's Center for Catastrophe Prnparndnnss and Hesponse. 
"Amerkans right now are not prepared to last thren hours on their own, let alone thrm~ days," said NYU professor Paul C. Light, the report's author. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Outdoor smoke ban at state center 
INDIANAPOLIS-State employees who want to smokn at work soon· will have to take a hike -litnrally. 
(;ov. Mitch Daniels said today that starting .Jan. I, the Indiana Government Center Campus -which indudes the Statehouse, Government Centnr North and Government Center South ­in Indianapolis will bn a smoke-free zone. 
CigarnttP smoking has been banned in the buildings and within 50 feet of any building entran1:e sincn 20(J:t 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
SOUTH KOREA 
Bush and Putin discuss issues 
The two leaders meet to speak about the war on terror and nuclear ambitions 
Associated Press 

BUSAN -Though their political relationship is strained, President Bush and Russian President Vladimir Putin are trying to speak with one voice about the war on terror and the campaign to stop North Korea's nuclear ambitions. 
The two leaders were meeting Friday, appar­ently still at odds over how to address Iran's nuclear programs and with long-running differ­ences over the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq and U.S. concern that Russia is retreating from democra­cy. 
Far from home, Bush was on the defensive about Democrats' criti­cism that he had misled the nation about the need to go to war in Iraq. 
He said at a news con­ference Thursday that it was "patriotic as heck to disagree with the presi­dent." But he added, "What bothers me is when people are irre­sponsibly using their positions and playing pol­itics. That's exactly what is taking place in America." 
Friday's meeting was the fifth between Bush and Putin this year, fol­lowing talks in Moscow; Trade Organization by the U.N. Security Council generally agrend on a Washington; Bratislava, the end of the year and with suspicions Iran is need to avert thn spread Slovakia, and Gleneagles, developments in Hussia. trying to build a nuclear of nuelear weapons tech­Scotland. Despite their Bush also was to meet arsenal. Over U.S. objec­nology to othnr nations, disputes, they're on a with Southeast Asia lead­tions, Hussia is building a including North Korea. first-name basis and ers to underscore U.S. nuclear reactor for a Russia is a partner with emphasize their friend­interest in the region, one power plant in Iran, an the United States, China, ship, which was strength­of the battlegrounds in $800 million project the Japan and South Korea in ened when Putin stepped the fight against terror­United States fears could talks aimed at persuading forward and supported ists. Bush planned to ask be used to help develop North Korea to halt its Bush after the terrorist the leaders to exert their nuclear arms. nuelear program in attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. influence on the military Putin says that he return for energy and 
Bush and Putin were junta in Myanmar, which shares the U.S. goal of an security guarantees. meeting in a hotel suite Secretary of State Iran without nuclear The political relation­before the opening of the Condoleezza Rice said arms but that he has ship bntween Bush and annual Asia Pacific was "one of the worst been assured Tehran has Putin has frayed, in part Economic Cooperation regimes in the world" for no ambitions for develop­because of U.S. concerns forum. The White House its record on human ing a nuclear weapon and that Putin is consolidat­said the key topics would rights and free speech. instead wants its pro­ing power in the Kremlin be Iran, North Korea, ter­Putin has refused to gram for civilian energy and eroding democratic rorism, trade, Moscow's support Bush in the pres­use alone. advances in post-Soviet goal of joining the World ident's eagerness to go to Bush and Putin have Hussia. 

Democrat seeks U.S. withdraw! 
Associated Press weight because he is close to many "They want us to rntreat. They want 
military commanders and has enor­us to wave the white flag of surrnndnr 
WASHINGTON -One of Congress' mous credibility with his colleagues on to the terrorists or the world'" said most hawkish Democrats called defense issues. He voted for the war in House Speaker Dennis llastnrt, H-111. Thursday for an immediate U.S. with­2002, and remains the top Democrat "It would be an absolute mistako drawal !rom Iraq, sparking bitter and on the House Appropriations defensn and a real insult to tho livns that havn personal salvos from both sides in a subcommittee. been lost," said Hep. David Dreier, H­growing Capitol Ilill uproar over "Our troops have become the pri­Calif. President Bush's war policies. mary target of the insurgency. They Just two days earlier, the COP-mn­
"It's time to bring thnm home," said are united against U.S. forces and we trolled Senate defeated a Demoeratk Hep. John Murtha, a decorated Korean have become a catalyst for violence," push to force Bush to lay out a War and Vietnam combat veteran, he said. timetable fiJr withdrawal. Spotlighting choking baek tears during remarks to In a biting response, Hepublicans mushrooming questions from both reporters. "Our military has accom­criticized Murtha's position as one or parties about thn war. though, the plished iL'> mission and done iL'> duty." abandonment and surrender and chamber approved a statement that 
The comments by the Pennsylvania accused Democrats of playing polities 2006 should be a signilkant year in lawmaker, who has spent three with the war and recklessly pushing a which conditions are created lilr the decades in the Ilouse, hold particular "cut and run" strategy. phased withdrawal of U.S. lim~es. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 18, 2005 
"Feminism is so deeply connect­ed to our mission as a college in
Faith 
continued from page 1 
indeed coexist with a Catholic environment. 
One of the conflicts students encounter when questioning the relationship between Catholicism and feminism is the Church's stance on women's issues. 
"I thinkit's difficult for the Saint Mary's community to categorize itself as a feminist community while also being a Catholic col­lege, as the ideals of both cate­gories, while great in thought, often conflict in practice," junior Molly McGuire said. 
Senior Meghan Daley said because it is a Catholic institution, Saint Mary's 
terms of empowering women and creating women leaders," said Astrid Henry, director of the Women's Studies Program. "I think students can see there is a connection between the two things and they are not in contra­diction, even though some people feel like feminism is in contradic­tion to a Catholic women's col­lege." 
Director of Spirituality Sister Kathleen Dolphin shares this view. 
"If you really explore what Catholic teaching has to say about the dignity of the human person, and what the Catholic Church has had to say about integrating human reason and faith, you've got a very strong background to 
foster the rights of 

should not women," she said. encourage fem­"As a Catholic college, In her five years inist values that Saint Mary's has a at Saint Mary's, disregard Dolphin said she
responsibility to foster
Catholic teach­has noticed a pro­
only those 'feminist' 
ing. gression toward a "I believe ideals that are in better understand­that as a ing of feminism at
keeping with Church 
Catholic col­the College. This
teaching."
lege, Saint progression is a Mary's has a result of students' responsibility to Meghan Daley willingness to ques­foster only tion and explore the 
senior

those 'feminist' Church's teaching, ideals that are she said. in keeping with Church teaching," "It's okay to ask questions she said. "Those sectors of the because of the Catholic under­feminist movement which advo­standing of the use of human rea­cate abortion rights and the redef­soning and faith," she said. "As inition of the institution of mar­thinking human beings, we have a riage should not be encouraged at moral obligation to ask ques-Saint Mary's." tions -and ask hard ques-
Some students on campus, how­tions." ever, said feminist values can be Senior Jennifer Robbins, peer incorporated into Catholic life. minister and Mission Commissioner, said Catholics should question the Church's teaching about women's rights. 
"As an institution committed to • educating Catholic women ... we don't hide from reason, we absolutely seek out challenges to our faith," Robbins said. "We don't hide from things we're afraid might contradict what we already know." 
Director of Campus Ministry Judith Fean said as an institution of higher education, Saint Mary's is a place for women to be critical and ask questions. The question of balancing feminism and Catholicism is a common one, and Saint Mary's is a place for stu­dents to seek a better understand­ing of the issue, she said. 
"Feminism is about a dialogue, and Saint Mary's fosters that," Fean said. Fean said she supports the College's allowance for groups like Feminist United, the Straight and Gay Alliance (SAGA) and the Women's Studies program. 
"Groups like SAGA are here to ask questions," s.he said. "They wouldn't be here if there wasn't a value of why they are here." 
Robbins also supports the allowance of such clubs, and said it is the College's duty as a Catholic institution to support the open inquiry of its students. 
"Good for Saint Mary's for rec­ognizing the beautiful diversity we have on our campus, and for real­ly wanting to genuinely learn how to overcome what separates us and how to embrace each other," 
she said. "That's  the  
Catholic call."  
Dolphin said once  students  

question how to incorporate femi­
nism into Catholic life, they will Robbins said use of these find answers to allow them to resources is a good idea but acconunodate both. doubts how often students take 
Senior Women's Studies minor advantage of the opportunity. Maryann Senesac has found this "Saint Mary's could be such a balance. She said the key in bal­powerful place," she said. "We ancing both value systems is to have all the resources that the create a definition of feminism Church can give us, and we have 
that bends to one's  all the resources for  
personal and reli­gious beliefs.  "Feminism is about  women. This is the cross-section; this is  
"Just like you can be conserva­tive and liberal politically, you can  a dialogue, and Saint Mary's fosters that. "  where we meet. Are we living to the best of our ability as Cath­olic  
be  a  liberal  or  women?"  
conservative femi- Judith Fean  Looking  to  the  
nist," she said. "For example, I would never have  director SMC Campus Ministry  future, Dolphin questions whether Saint Mary's women  
an abortion but I  will  attempt  to  

believe women have the right to bridge the gap between feminism choose." and Catholicism. Although she is 
Dolphin advises students that in confident about the recent revival order to make educated decisions, of feminist discussion, she worries they must consider both the about the topic becoming stagnant Church's tradition and their expe­in the future. riences as women. "At Saint Mary's College, where 
"I always caution my students, is our courage, and where is our don't just stand out there in the imagination?" she said. "If it can't middle ground and be a fence-sit­be done at Saint Mary's, where ter. Know what you are talking can it be done?" about," she said. Dolphin said Saint Mary's mix of 
Dolphin said finding a middle feminist and Catholic values is a ground between feminism and powerful force. Catholicism is difficult, but there "We are very Catholic and we are plenty of resources on campus are educating the next generation that can help students with diffi­of women leaders," she said. cult questions. "They are competent, faith-filled, 
"Take advantage of the opportu­and they are women of integrity nities at Saint Mary's," she said. -and that is what real feminism "Talk to professors, because is about." you've got [many] here who are ... willing to talk to students about these issues on a one-to-one basis. Contact Emily Lavelle and Now is your chance. You've got all Lauren Lavelle at these chances to do all this explor­elavelO 1 @saintmarys.edu and ing." llavelO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


------·---~--, 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Friday, November 18, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

10,720.22 +45.46
}ones 
.. 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volu1 2.444 160 ~ 
2,298,037,IJ9j 
AMEX 1.700.84 +11.54 2,220.46 +32.53
~~2... 

NVSE. .7~ilf:f:Z:~·:· ..~=ji~~T~f· 
S&PSOO l ,242.80 +11.59 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 14,411.79 0.00 mE IOO(London) 5,460.00 +30.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ II0 TR (QQQQ) +1.32 +0.539 41.307 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.23
+0.83 27.97 SIRIUS SATEWTE R (SIRI) -0.072 7.328
-0.97 APPliED MATERIALS (AMAT) 

-2.42 -0.43 17.34 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +0.87 +0.15 17.37 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.60 -0.28 46.46 10-YEAR NOTE -0.56 -0.25 44.59 5-YEARNOTE -0.88 -0.39 43.91 3-MONTH BILL 0.00 0.00 39.12 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.54 56.34 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) + 7.80 486.90 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.00 87.75 
Excha Rates 

YEN 118.740( EURO 
0.851 POUND 0.5811 
IN BRIEF 
Online shopping sites sharpen up 
SAN FHi\NCISCO -Laura Hanson relies 
on the Internet to make her a smarter shop­
I>Pr even when she isn't planning to buy 
online. 
Before traveling to a conventional store, tlw San Francisco rPsident rngularly visits an online comparison shopping site to explore priees and review product research so she won't neod to nmbarrass herself with store clerks. 
"With tlwse (shopping comparison) sitos, I ran ask lots of stupid quostions in the priva­cy of my own home," said the 27-year-old Hanson. 
Yahoo Inc. runs Hanson's favorite compari­son site -just one of many free Interne! serviens that churn out pricing guides and other lwlpful insights about everything from il'od ac1:essories to kitchen sinks. 
The comparison sites are expected to play a central role in the upcoming holiday shop­ping soason when Forrester Hesearch pro­diets sonw 2.5 million U.S. households will buy nwrchandise online for the first time. 
Delta needs pilot wage cuts to recover 
NEW YOHK -Delta Air Lines Inc. is losing $5 million oach day, much of it due to high jet ruel prices, as it tries to stay afloat, the company's chid financial ofl1cer testil"ied in bankruptcy court Thursday. 
Delta CFO Edward Bastian said the compa­ny's cash flow would break even for 2006 and generate $1 billion in 2007, but he argued that the airlin!l would need to impose deep wage and benefit cuts on more than 6,000 pilots to fight volatile fuel prices, pay down debt and lwdge against other unfore­seen circumstances. 
"Historically, the surprises that have come in this industry have been negative and not positive," Bastian said during the second day of a hearing on a Delta request to void its contract with pilots and impose wage cuts. Tho hearing was adjourned in late afternoon and will resume Nov. 28. 
Tho pilots have threatened to strike if U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Prudence Carter Beatty grants Delta's request. 
Democratic tax bill shot down 
Republican senators show oppositon to giving breaks to energy and oil companies 
Associated Press 


WASIIINGTON -Senate Hepublicans beat back Democratie attempts Thursday to use a $60 bil­lion tax bill to pineh oil and energy companies that have been reporting reeord profits while consumers pay high gasoline prices. 
The bill, whieh would prevent a number of indi­vidual and business tax breaks from expiring, already levies almost $5 billion in taxes on major oil companies. 
The energy amendments faced opposition from the Hepublican majority and stood little chance of suc­cess, but they ref'lected attentiveness on Capitol llill to high gasoline priees and fears of skyrocketing homP. heating costs this winter. 
Some (;()p senators were already. unhappy with tax writers because the bill ineluded a 1:hange in accounting methods that would hit large intp,grated oil eompanies with $4.9 bil­lion in taxes. Sen. Larry Craig, H-ldaho, said he would vot!l against the bill if that tax increase remained intact. 
"Is it a wind fall tax by another name?" Craig said. 
Lawmakers were alarmed this fall when profit reports showed five gas supplies. They would gets, even though they amnndment to ban price major companies and their have returned the money to aren't reporting pro !its as gouging during national global parent corporations energy consumers through high as other industries, energy emergeneies earned more than $32.8 an income tax rebate. A said Senate Finance declared by tho prnsident billion in the July to 35-64 procedural vote Committee Chairman won tho support of 57 sen­September quarter. defeated their effort. Charles Grassley, H-Iowa. ators but fnll short of 60 
Consumers saw gasoline "The major integrated oil "If you have excess prof­votes nnnded to overeonw a prices soar beyond $3 a companies have all of the its tax on Big Oil, do you procndural hurdln. gallon in the aftermath of gain. Who has all the soon have one on Big The overall bill would cut supply disruptions caused pain?" Dorgan asked Microsoft'!" Grassley said. taxes $60 billion over fivn by hurricanes, and the before answering his own A similar amPndment years, prnsnrving many tax politicians called oil execu­question: "All the American sought to impose a tempo­breaks sdwdulnd to expirP tives to Capitol Hill to people who are trying to rary windfall profits tax on unless lawmaknrs keep explain th11ir huge profits. pay for the price of a tank­oil companies and use the them intact. Unlikn a ver­
Democratic S11ns. Byron ful of gas or trying to figure money to fund a low­sion passnd by a llouse Dorgan of North Dakota out how they are going to income heating assistance committee, the bill would and Chris Dodd of heat their home in the win­program. not extend reducnd tax Connecticut lost a bid to ter." The Snnate defeated a rates for eapital gains and impose a temporary wind­Opponents said oil com­proposal that would have dividnnds. Senate (;()p fall profits tax of 50 per­panies shouldn't be pun­eliminated a tax ineentivn leadnrs vownd to makn eent on the saln of oil over ished when lawmakers are for major oil and gas eom­sure thn 15 percent tax $40 a barrel, applied to urging them to invest in panies that allows them a rate for investnwnt ir11:omn profits not reinvested in energy production. They're credit for exploration and will bn in the final vnrsion inemasing domestic oil and being made political tar-development eost. i\n of tho bill. 

Stocks mixed on higher oil prices 
problems at its top supplier, Delphi range," said Pntnr Cardillo, chief stratn­
Associated Press 

Corp. and worries about the company's gist, senior vicn prnsident and market 
ability to turn around ilc; performance. analyst, S.W. Bach & Co. "The market 
NEW YOHK -Stocks dosed an Leaders of the United Auto Workers is running against options expirations, erratic session mixed Wednesday as said the union and Delphi remain far which arn causing tndmieal dillieulty." General Motors Corp. hit an 18-year apart on a new labor agreement and The Dow fell 11.68, or 0.11 pnmmt, low, dragging down the Dow Jones fears of a strike have spooked to 10,674.76. industrial average. !Using oil prices investors. Broader stock indieators were barely also dulled investor enthusiasm. Broader economic news was more higher. The Standard & Poor's 500 
The price of crude overshadowed a upbeat. The Labor Department report­index rose 2.20, or 0.18 percent, to government report of moderating infla­ed that consumer prices edged up just 1,231.21, and the Nasdaq eomposite tion that initially gave stocks a modest 0.2 percent in October, the best show­index rose 1.19, or 0.05 pnreent, to lift. Oil futures settled at $57.88 a bar­ing in four months. In September, con­2,187.93. rel, up 90 cents on the New York sumer prices had soared by 1.2 percent Bonds rose sharply as stocks Mercantile Exchange, a sharp change on record energy prices. That inflation dedined, with the yield on the 1 0-year from the four-month low they reached increase was the largest one-month Treasury note falling to 4.47 percent Tuesday. Wednesday's government jump in 25 years. from 4.56 pnrcent late Tuesday. The petroleum inventory numbers were Expiring options also spurred selling. U.S. dollar was mixod against other weaker then expected. "We did get surprising oil inventory major curnmdos in European trading. 
GM fell as concerns mounted about data, but it's still below that $60 Gold prices were higher. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 18, 2005 
Football 
continued from page 1 
the student section for every game." 
Tudesco said some of his own sadness has been offset by the appanmt resurgence of the loot­ball program this season. 
"It's nice to see the future seems more certain than when we got here," he said. "Even when we started 8-0 as fresh­men, I never got the sense it was going to last -the luck was going to eventually run out. I'm jealous that the current freshmen have three more years of great football to watch." 
Tudesco said his "hat is off' to head coach Charlie Weis -and other seniors agree. 
'Tm very glad that I was lucky enough to be here for Coach Weis' first season," senior Chris Bodington said. "There were a lot of exciting games I was able to attend, in particular the USC game. Even though we lost, it was still an ama7ing game -one that people won't forget for a long time." 
Many seniors said the Irish's performance against USC -in tandem with their overall success this season -has helped appease feelings of melancholy that will accompany Saturday's home closer. 
"Coming in with [former coach Tyrone] Willingham was great, because everyone was excited to be having a winning season," senior Amy Larek said. "Going out surrounded by the same excitement and optimism is a nice close to my senior year foot­ball season." 
Bodington said he is already looking ahead to a Bowl Championship Series (BCS) game. 
"Though it's sad that this Saturday is already our last home game, I'm looking. forward to going to a bowl and watching Notre Dame win its first bowl game since the 1993 Cotton Bowl win over Texas A&M," he said. 
But before the Irish and their faithful look ahead to January, seniors said they will make this weekend's game as memorable as possible. 
"For the first time, I'm having a tailgate with my dad," Tudesco said. "It'll be nice to celebrate the last game with someone who has been such an important part of me being here." 
Plantan said he plans to wake up "earlier than usual" so as to cherish every moment of his last home football experience as a Notre Dame student. 
''I'm going to ... spend the whole day hanging out with friends tailgating [to] make the last game last as long as possi­ble," he said. 
While seniors will spend the weekend in reflection, the University's newest generation of Domers said the winning season has primed them for three more 
Race 
continued from page 1 
community. 
In his travels to different areas of the country, Camarillo said most people perceive Compton in a negative light and connect the city with gangster rap, gangs and its reputation as the U.S. murder capital of the 1980s and 90s. 
"We must look beyond these images and portrayals in the media to understand what is real­ly going on in minority-majority populations," Camarillo said. 
Camarillo showed the migration of racial groups in Los Angeles County over the past five decades using distribution maps that showed areas of predominant race. Prior to the Civil Rights Act, real estate businesses in Los Angeles County dictated where African-Americans could or could not buy property. Consequently, African-Americans and Latinos lived in the most densely populat­ed racial areas in the United States in the 1950s and 60s, he said. 
Camarillo said African­Americans were prohibited from living in Compton, but liberal whites bought homes for their African-American friends in the city. In seven years, Compton became predominately black as whites left the city for fear that house values would decline with the presence of African­Americans. Camarillo described the flight of whites from the city as a "white exodus." 
As an extension of the white exodus, major banks left Compton and the infrastructure necessary to run the city began to collapse. Gangs emerged on the streets of Compton-as did crack cocaine. 
"Now we have turf battles over who's selling or profiting from the sale of drugs," he said. 
The city government was forced to put 60 to 70 percent of all rev­enue into policing the streets, and as a result the quality of schools declined. 
The rush of Mexican migration into Los Angeles County also years of Notre Dame football. 
"This football season has been everything I could have asked for, and way more than I expected," freshman Brad Blomstrom said. "We've witnessed close games, blowout wins and the stadium has been full of energy." 
Freshman Kyle Lee Andrews also said the season was "a lot more than [he] expected." 
"After the past few years this is a great change," he said. "The games are so much fun and all of my friends at other schools are jealous. This season is making me very excited for seasons to come -next year should be amazing." 
Students said though the sea-son's excitement will dwindle somewhat with the arrival of the Orange -who have clenched just one win this season -they are not disappointed with Saturday's opponent. 

"They'll be looking to salvage their season, and I doubt they will just roll over for our BCS hopes," Tudesco said. 
Bodington said Notre Dame home games are always an enjoyable experience -"regard­less of the opponent." 
''I'm not really disappointed we're ending the season with Syracuse because we've already been lucky to see exciting games against Michigan State, Southern California and Tennessee at 
influenced the social structure of Compton. By the year 2000, the Latino population was at 50 per­cent. 
Camarillo said the integration of Latino and African-American politicians caused political unrest because African-Americans retained a monopoly on city coun­cil positions, even as the Latino population comprised the majori­ty. 
"African-Americans are experi­encing a sense of special belong­ing-this is their city," Camarillo said. "They see Latinos as chang­ing their neighborhoods, taking over their neighborhoods. This has a strong, reactive conse­quence for people." 
The schools in Compton present further breeding ground for con­flict between the two groups. Schools run by African­Americans are not geared toward helping new immigrants learn English, so many Latinos are fail­ing, he said. 
Camarillo said the prospect for a more peaceful Compton lies with cooperation and understand­ing between African-Americans and Latinos. 
"There is a young group of peo­ple -young Latinos and African Americans -that are forging ahead," Camarillo said. "They have a different vision of a future for Compton of which they want to be a part." 
Camarillo is a professor of American history, the founding director of the Stanford Center for Chicano Research and the found­ing executive director of the Inter­University Program for Latino Research, headquartered at Notre Dame's Institute for Latino Studies. 
The lecture, titled "The New Racial Frontier in America: Minority-Majority Cities, the Case of Compton," was sponsored by the Institute for Latino Studies, the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts and the History, American Studies and Africana Studies departments. 
ECDC ANNUAL BOOK FAIR 
When: Nov. 14-18 &21, 2005, 8:00 a.m.-5:15p.m. Where: ECDC-ND and ECDC-SMC (ECDC-ND is located on Bulla Road across from O'Hara Grace Residences, ECDC-SMC is located in Havican Hall on the Saint Mary's Campus) What: Scholastic Book Fair with a wide selection of quality children's books for preschoolers through upper elementary grades, including chapter books. Cookbooks and other books great for families are also available for purchase. How: Come and check out the wide selection of quality books available. Pay by cash, check or credit card. 
Why: SUPPORT ECDCI Great holiday gifts. All funds raised will go towards the purchase of educational materials for ECDC. 

Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

home," Blomstrom said. 
Andrews said he anticipates a good game, but the only thing he knows about the Orange is that their record this season "isn't too hot" -much like the weather forecasts that predict a blustery atmosphere Saturday. 
Plantan said he hopes thn win­ter wnather will continue through the weekend. 
"I want it to snow on Saturday,'' he said. ''I've hoped for a snow game for all four years I've been here and it hasn't happened yet. I think it would be cool for some snow to fall."· 
Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 
2046 South Bend Ave. 212-1166 Across from Martin's Plaza 
BEFORE, DURING AND AFTER THE GAME 
Friday, November 18, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Dame. lie is considered the turn glassy. lie can't finish. ter? So I made some phone as anyone alive my age and I oldest undergraduate to ever So how did this former calls, first to I Executive love this country," he said.
Lefty 

walk Notre Dame's campus. Marine gunnery sergeant Director of the Alumni "We're not here to erawl into And he might come to take a Association I Chuck Lennon, a corner and watch televi­continued from page 1 
be the proud­class at one of who referred me to [Director sion. Have dreams. Set take one dass at Notre Dame est, too. "/ can't believe I'm the most presti­of Admissions( Dan Saracino, goals." during the fall semester. So "I can't gious schools in who referred me to [Associate Thnre are still 13 goals left
here. I sit in class 
on Aug. 15, he loaded five believe I'm the nation? Director of Admissions) on his list, and Guillette con­
and it's like, pinch 
suitcases and seven boxes here," Guillette Persistence, Michael Gantt," he said. tinues to cheek them ofT as he into his blaek Chrysler, said said. "I sit in me. Am I really ambition and After two months, Gantt ages, though he has nnver good-bye to his wife and trav­my class and some string­called Guillette and told him shown the list to anyonn.
awake?"
eled S6S miles until he was it's like, pinch pulling with the the University would not be Guillette nstimates it is cost­htHHHtth the Dome. me. Am I really higher-ups, he able to accept ing him about <;uillette is 1:urrently awake'? I find Ralph "Lefty" Guillette said. him as a full-$20,000 in total enrolled in "War, Law and myself looking student "In March of time student. for his elass, lodg­I·:thics" -a theology course for flaws. I've last year. I real-Gantt suggested "Because ofhis ing and meals. lie that fulfills a sm:ond theology been to Korea, ized I was going he get in touch experience in lives alonn in an ermlit and explorns the nthi­Vietnam, wounded three to be in South Bend for the with Arts and apartment off' of
combat, he has
eal and lngal considnrations times, but to sit here and say, Michigan State game and the Letters Associate Bendix Hoad, and rnl!tted to war. I'm a student, I just can't Southern California game, so Director Ava added a rich calls his wife ­lie gnts tears in his eyes believe it." I thought, why don't I just go Preacher, who dimension to our who stayed behind when hn talks about Notre Guillette pauses, his eyes to Notre Dame for the scmes-could get him in Vermont 
Sugarberry Lane Welcomes All Students, Families & Friends To The Game! 
While you arc in town, be sure to visit Sugarberry Lane. Bring this ad and SAVE 
15% OFF* 
on all of your purchases, when you select from our in stock regularly priced items. This area's FAVORITE VERA BRADLEY Emerald Dealer Great lines of creams and skin care items •Yankee Candles &Plug-ins Plus many fine gifts & seasonal decor items 
Mon-Fri 1Oam to 6pm • Sat. lOam to Spm • Closed Sun A few miles north of Notre Dame & St. Mary~s 
*Offer expires November 2 5, 2005 
NOTRE DAME'S DEPARTMENT Of fiLM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 

TuesdCJy, 
November 8 through 
sundCJy, 
November 20 
Philbin Studio The<1tre 
$8 oil students For tlc~ets, coli the DPAC Ticket Office ot 631·2800 or visit http:// performlngorts.nd.edu 
D E S I G N ~''"''"'~"9~-»>»>___ B 
LIVING 
B y N 0 E l COWARD 

r;::t;lUNIVERSITY OF 
'WNOTREDAME 

discussion. " 
into one class for twien a day. the fall semester. "I've nnvnr been 
"(Preacher[ Margaret Pfeil on11 to be lone­had a class she professor somn, I'vn been thought would alonn so much in be appropriat~ my lifntimn," for me, Guillette said. Guillette said. "She said she "But I am lonnsomP. for my could see what she could do. wife. But at IP.ast I lovn televi­In mid-July, I was aeenpted sion -thn History Channnl, into the elass. So I really had the Diseovnry channnl." to hustle to buy my computnr, Guillette has nearly perfect make travel arrangements attendance in his War, Law and pack my car up." and Ethics class, but rnadily 
Despite the age di!Terenee, admits that it's not nasy. Guillette's reaction wasn't "I have no dun what my unlikl~ that of most Notre grade is," he said. ''I'll be Dame hopefuls who receive happy with a B. We just took the coveted acceptance let­an exam, I'm hoping just to ters. pass it. When you're my agn, 
"I bawled my head off. I you don't retain half as much yelled and sereamed. I could­as what you read." n't catch my breath. My wifn His professor, Margaret thought I was having a heart Pfeil, teaehns the class with attack," he said. military science professor Lt. 
Guillette served in both the Knlly .Jordan. Th11 class Korean and Vietnam wars. In explores the ethical considnr­1968, after being wounded by ations of a just war. shrapnel during combat in "I was surprised when I Vietnam, he committed him­found out h11 was going to be self to a list of in my class, but 32 life goals -I am so nxcited scribbled in for him," Pfeil pencil on the "Ifyou want it bad said. "lie dearly back of a phone enough, don't take no appreciates it. number list. Because of his
for an answer. " 
"The naval experi11nce in nurse came up combat, he has to me and Ralph "Lefty" Guillette added a rich asked 'What dimension to
student 
are your plans our discussion." after the war?' Guillette plans I was 36 years to go home for old, and had no idea," he Thanksgiving, and he's con­said. "So that night I decided sidering applying to takn to make a list of what I want­another class at Notre Damn ed to do, called 'Goals and during the spring semester. Objectives and Places I Want He pounds his fists in the air to Visit.· I kept writing the when he talks about being a goals for two days, and I student at the University. believed that if I could do "II' you want it bad enough," them all then I would be suc­he said, "don't takn no l'or an cessful." answer. Have a reason l'or 
Attending Notre Dame was everything you do." on that list -and 37 years later Guillette is living his dream. Contact Mary Kate Malone at 
"I enjoy life twice as much mmalone3@nd.edu 



THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF 

--u presents 
The Hibernian Lecture 
"Creating Sacred Space and Reclaiming Iris Music and Art in Chicago" Ellen Skerrett 
Friday, November 18, 2005 4:30p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
page 10 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 18, 2005 
before you hurt yourself even fur­sion after spending a semester in the three happened after he had are sitting up there all high and ther. If you just want punishment Dublin, Ireland, she said. been "drinking responsibly," he mighty," he said. "Yeah, we are
Future 
privileged to go here. But you should be f'***ing privileged to have us. We make it a top aca­demic school. There's a lot of spe­cial people at this school ... There shouldn't be this animosity, ten­sion between administration and student body at a Catholic institu­tion. There should be at least the idea of penance and not the Gestapo." 
No "mass exodus" 
As student body president, sen­ior Dave Baron has dealt with the University administration more than the average student. 
"Anytime I've been wanting to talk about a specific issue, they're willing to talk about it," he said. 
But when asked if he felt the administration was open to change, Baron's response shifted. 
"In a lot of ways, no," he said. "They've already been through the discussion [on certain issues]. I think they are willing to hear and talk about those issues, but [argu­ments] are not something they'll necessarily listen to." 
Baron said he doesn't predict a major change in residential life at Notre Dame. 
As he pointed out, there hasn't been a "mass exodus" of students moving off-campus since the ban on hard alcohol sparked uproar in 2002. 
The numbers have been increasing, however, slowly but steadily. 
In the past five years, the num­ber of seniors living ofT-campus has increased from 54 percent to 58 percent, according to the Office of Institutional Research's 2005 Factbook. In 1996, 50 percent of seniors lived off-campus. 
In the past five years, the num­ber of juniors living off-campus has increased from 10 percent to 12 percent. Overall, the number of students living off-campus has increased from 17 to 19 percent. 
"I think the main thing is stu­dents do like the residential hall system," Baron said, "keeping the dorm identity, keeping the tight­knit community." 
But for students like the male junior, torn between equal amounts anger and passion, it's hard to know what to think about Notre Dame. 
"It was one of the worst days of my life when I got waitlisted here," he said. "I love this school, which sucks ... I just love this school." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at 
mhannal@nd.edu 
ERASMUS BOOKS 

• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 232-8444 
FOR SALE: 
29 peaceful acres 22 miles from 
Notre Dame. This buildable site 
has a 6-acre pine forest and great 
hunting for deer, quail, turkey and 
pheasant. Aplace for you and your 
friends to stay-Forever! 
Pam Craft, RE/MAX Central 
(800) 787-2311 

continued from page 1 
"You should leave here and go to Michigan State" 
University founder Father Edward Sorin had a vision that Notre Dame would become "one of the most powerful means for good in this country." 
Today's vision of the future Notre Dame is a little more con­crete: four new dorms, cable and wireless in every dorm, an off­campus commercial district and a new or renovated student center. 
And Notre Dame's traditional residence life system is a big part of that picture. 
"I think one of the things that multiple studies we've done in the last couple of years has told us is that in many ways, residential life is working at Notre Dame really well," Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs Ann Firth told The Observer in September. "Students enjoy the experience -they might like more space, they might like a few more features, but overall there's a great sense of communi­ty." 
But some students say that com­munity is pushing them away. 
A female junior said when she tried to reason with a staff mem­ber of the Office of Residence life and Housing this fall, explaining that she would pay her fine and do her service hours but didn't need counseling, she was told Notre Dame wasn't right for her. 
"In an unnecessarily confronta­tional tone, Lthe staff member] told me, 'That's not the way we work here at Notre Dame. We see peo­ple like you who are obviously heading down the path to destruc­tion, and we want to stop you for what you've done, you should 

leave here and go to Michigan 
State,"' the junior said. 
The junior had returned to her 
dorm one night a few days after a 
painful breakup with her 
boyfriend. She had been drinking 
off campus and came back to the 
dorm crying, surrounded by 
friends trying to comfort her. 
"The AR and the rector followed 
us to my room and questioned me about the night," the junior said. "I coherently explained that I was . really upset about this guy dump­ing me and I just wanted to go to bed. Upon hearing this, the rector said, 'Well, I've been dumped by a guy before and I've never acted 
like this."' 
She said she was sent to the 
Office of Residence Life and 
Housing for "being intoxicated 
underage in the dorm." 
The process wasn't "as bad as 
everyone says ... it was 10,000 
times worse," she said. 
Her bigger problem, however, 
was with the way she said her rec­
tor handled the situation. 
"The day after the incident I 
described, I went to my rector's 
room and opened my heart to her. 
When a person comes to their rec­
tor in need, they should not imme­
diately be sent away to counsel­
ing," she said. "That, I believe, is a 
fundamental problem with my 
own rector, and probably many 
other rectors here on campus, and 
it's one of the major reasons that 
has pushed me to find off-campus 
housing for senior year." 
It's not just students in trouble 
with the Office of Residence life 
and Housing who feel the need to 
get off campus. 
Senior Caitlin Evans moved off 
campus this year -an easy deci-
Felicidades to our favorite chica! Happy 21st Raquel! Love, your girls 
"By the time you're a senior, you're ready to move out," Evans said. "The support is great when you're a freshman ... but it can become kind of restrictive." 
"This place is not a paradise" 
No co-ed, athlete-only or senior­only dorms. No Greek life. Chapels in every hall. 
These aspects, said Director of Admissions Dan Saracino, make Notre Dame's residential life "truly unique". and attract prospective students. 
''There's a sense of community that exists in Notre Dame halls that distinguishes us from virtually every school in the country," Saracino said. 
But that community isn't perfect. 
'This place is not a paradise by any means," Saracino said. "I returned here [from California] because while I really believe it's not perfect, it's a very special place ... I think the social life surely needs to be improved on campus and I'm hoping it will be [with the] property development south of campus." 
Saracino was referring to the future residential and retail devel­opment along the Eddy Corridor, an idea formally proposed by Notre Dame and South Bend offi­cials last spring. 
Saracino mentioned the ~·natural tension" about discipline that exists between students and administrators at an "intense aca­demic institution." 
"I am concerned," he said. 'Tm concerned the students don't have as many options [in terms of social life]. Drinking, I think, is more than it should be." 
His thoughts on the future? 
"We're not trying to be a Harvard, a Stanford or whatever -we're just trying to be Notre Dame," Saracino said. "I think the campus development plan is really going to develop the social life." 
The male junior mentioned above, however, has serious doubts about Notre Dame's social scene. 
"I think what's going to happen is with incoming classes you're going to get a school that's not as social. You're going to find kids who find out from other people that Notre Dame's not that social," he said. "As far as the future's concerned ... if they continue to alienate the student body, know what you're getting into, because I certainly didn't." 
His first three ResLifes came during his sophomore year. Two of said. 
After the third ResLife, he was told he had a week to move out of his dorm and placed on discipli­nary probation until the end of the year, he said. 
"You sit here telling me you think I have a problem, and you're telling me to go sleep on some­body's couch," he said. 
He said his fourth violation came when he was at a tailgate hosted by his parents celebrating his sis­ter's engagement to another recent Notre Dame graduate, while toasting with champagne. 
Then he was approached by a group of Notre Dame Security/Police, Indiana State Excise Police and St. Joseph County Police officers and cited for minor in possession, he said. 
He went to the Office of Residence Life and Housing and was given disciplinary probation through his senior year and 40 hours of community service. 
Twelve days later, he received a letter from the Office saying "they, as a group, have decided" to send him to an intensive outpatient pro­gram to deal with his alleged alco­hol problem, he said. 
"My dad is up in arms," he said. "My parents ... my dad kind of wants me to leave. [And he's always said] I can never quit any­thing in my life." 
He believes the University will be forced to clarify its policies in the future. 
"When they do crack down, its so like, why did I get picked out, when there's a tailgate three cars down the road with girls puking," the junior said. "A kid sitting in a truck with his parents shouldn't be ticketed. The University either has to take a stand on wet or dry. If it's going to be wet, it should be wet and they shouldn't crack tail­gates." 
He's been confused about policy enforcement since his freshman year, when he said his assistant rector applauded him after he threw a party with more than 1,000 beers. 
"I was told I did a great job [since everyone was in the rooms], that I was a model for other kids, to the point that he would tell other kids to come talk to me," he said. 'Tm an 18-year-old fresh­man, I just held a party with a ton of people and beer, and I'm a role model, you know?" 
These discrepancies frustrate students, he said. And they "alien­ate the student body." 
"They [administrative officials] 
INTERESTED m BECONUNG AN ENGLISH MAJOR??? 
Upcoming informational sessions: 
Wednesday 11/16,4:15 pm Thursday 11/17, 1:00pm Friday 11/18, 11:45 am Friday 11/18,2:15 pm Monday 11/21, 10:45 am Tuesday 11/22, 3:30pm 
Send an email to Kim Baum at Baum.1 @nd.edu to sign up for an appointment. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, November 18, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Jury convicts Stnith of kidnapping, tnurder 
Case of 11-year-old girl brutally raped, strangled to death closed with conclusive evidence 
Associated Press 
SAHASOTA. Fla. --Thn grainy imagns eaptun~d by a car wash's sneurity eamera wnre chilling: a burly, tattoond man in a mnchanies uniform grabs the wrist of an 1 1-year-old girl walking honw from a friend's housn and lnads her away. Carlin Bruda's half-nakml body turnml up sevnral days later out­sidn a church. 
.Jurors eoneluded Thursday that a formnr mnchanic was the man in thosn images, which wnre broadeast nationwide dur­ing tho snareh for Carlin's killer. Aflnr deliberating five hours, they eonvktml .Jost~ph Smith, 39, of kidnapping, raping and stran­gling tlw girl. 
Prosm:utors built their ease on tlw footagn, thn tnstimony of Smith's frinnds and co-workers who said thny rneogniznd Smith in tho vidtw, DNA and hair­analysis nvidnnen, and thn word of the ddnrHianl's brotlwr, who said Smith confi~ssnd. 

Smith, who did not take the stand, showed no mnotion when thn verdkt was rnad. The jury will return for the sentencing phasn on Nov. 28. 
Carlin's mother, Susan Schorpen, wept softly with her head bowed when the verdict was read, and the girl's father, .Joe Brucia, nodded when each of the three convictions was announced. A'i he left court, he said only that he was happy with the verdict. 
"I can never hold her again. Whore's the dosure?" Schorpcn said outside the courthouse. ''I've lost one of the most pre­cious things to me in my life bncause of an animal. a disgust­ing, perverted animal." 
When asknd if she was satis­fied with the verdict, she rnsponded: "When he's dead. Whnn he meeL'i his maker." 
Carlin's killing spurred the introduction of federal and state legislation to crack down on pro­bation violators. 
At the time of thn slaying, 
:::::' ' '" 
. ' \t' Smith was in violation of the terms of his probation on a cocaine charge because he failed to pay $411 in lines and court costs. But a judge declined to put him in jail, saying Florida does not have a "debtor's prison." 

At the trial, Smith's lawyers raised questions about the relia­bility of the FBI lab where the evidence was analyzed and chal­lenged the motives of Smith's brother, John, suggesting he was interested in the reward money. 
The brother told the jury Smith had confessed to having "rough sex" with the girl and killing her, and told him where the body was. Prosecutors played taped jailhouse conversa­tions Smith made with his broth­er and others in which Smith talked of being on drugs while committing the· <:rimes. 
An FBI code breaker translat­ed an encrypted letter Smith wrote his sibling saying he had lef't Carlie's clothes and back­pack in four trash bins. 
Also, DNA analysis connected 
him to a semen stain on Carlie's 
shirt, and strands of hair from 
Smith's vehicle were found to 
match the girl's hair. 
Before Carlin's slaying, Smith 
had been arrested at least 13 
times since 1993, mostly on 
drug offenses. In one case, he 
was charged with kidnapping a 
20-year-old woman, but was 
acquitted. Jle pleaded no contest 
in another case in which a 
woman said he hit her in the 
face with a motorcycle helmet. 
He was sentenced to 60 days in 
jail. lie also served 17 months in 
prison on drug possession and 
fraud charges. 
After the slaying, Rep. Katherine Harris, R-Fia., intro­duced legislation, named Carlie's ·Law, that would expand the rea­sons that could get a convicted criminal on federal probation sent back to prison. A version limited to sex offenders ulti­mately passed. Smith had not been convicted of sex offenses 
bofore Carlie's death. 
i-~1~11' ~~~::1:~~**-:.'i:~~ ~•:$l~k::!;< *"~,:,\&S'"" ,,..... ~, ~~~ffi1t::1~ <:;:;~':>.::1~,~t.::';*.W*__.::::· ­

Notre Dame vs Syracuse Book Signings 
Friday, November 18 
Notre Dame Baseball Greats  I Play for Notre Da me  
Cappy Gagnon 11:00 am-1:00pm  Ted Mandell 3:00 pm ­5:00 pm  
Monk's Notre Dame  
Fr. "Monk" Malloy 11:00 am-1:00pm  

Saturday, November 19 
Future Domers 
Sharon Bui 
10:00 am -12:00 pm 
The Spirit of Notre Dame 
Jim & Jeremy Langford 
10:00 am -12:00 pm 
My First Notre Dame Words: GO IRISH 
Connie McNamara 
10:00 am -12:00 pm 
The Christmas Duilt 
Jennifer Chiaverini 
10:00 am -12:00 pm 
Mr. Notre Dame 
Jason Kelly 11:00 am-1:00pm 

Notre Dame vs The Klan 
Todd Tucker 11:00 am-1:00pm 
Legendary Notre Dame Quarterbacks 
will be in the bookstore signing their new DVD "Inside the Irish Huddle" from 
10:00 am -12:00 pm 


BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndmtolog.com 
,. 

Events are subject to change. Please call to confirm. 574-631~5757 
www.ndcatalog.com 
...~t~~,~~h 
Police find 54 guns in Pa. ho111e 
Associated Press 
LITITZ, Pa. -Police snized 54 guns from tho homo of an 18-ycar-old man charged with killing his girlfriond's parents and neeing the state with hor, according to court documents filed Thursday. 
Warwick Township police removed the weapons, whieh included an array of rifles, shotguns, handguns and ammunition, on Sunday after­noon from the home whore sus­pect David Ludwig lived with his parents. The search occurrod as police were still trying to lind him and 14-y<mr­old Kant Both Borden. 
David Ludwig is being hold without bail on rnurdor and kidnapping charges af'tnr b1~ing flown back to Laneastnr County on Tuesday !'rom Indiana, when~ police eapturnd him fol­lowing a ehase. 
Polien allege Ludwig shot Miehael and Cathryn Borden shortly before X a.m. Sunday at their home in Lititz following an argument over his relation­ship with Kant. The two had been dating, apparcmtly snernt­ly, friends and witnesses said. 
Ludwig was arrestml around midday Monday after hn crashed his parents' car into a tree in Belleville, Ind., about (>00 miles !'rom the murder scene, during a police ehase. Neither Ludwig nor the girl. who has not been eharged, was injured in tlw crash. 
Investigators have said they are treating Kant Borden as a crime victim but that tho inves­tigation is continuing. 
Ludwig's pan~nts, Gregory and Jane Ludwig, issued a statt~mtmt Wednesday express­ing their sorrow over tlw slay­ings but have not spoken pub­licly. 



THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, November 18, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas Ass1; MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EmTOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINlSTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1 @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independenr, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither insrirution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on coment. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
QUI!stions regarding Observer policies should be directed to F-tlitor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ohietvc:r (USPS 599 2-4000) il published Monday through Friday ex~pt during exam ;~.nd V<!cation periods, A sulxcription to lh.c: Observer i.s $100 for one academic year: ss; for one semesrer. 
The Olbem:r is published at: I'OSTMA5TER 024 South Dining HaJJ Send address corrw:iom (0: Notre Dame. IN 46'556..0779 The Observer Pcriodia.l postage pajd at Notte Dame P.O. &x779 and additional mailing offices. 021: Sourb Dinin.g Hat! 
Norrc Dame, IN 46556-0n9 
Tht: O~r is a member ofthe Associated Press. AU reproduction rights are r~rvro. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

A duLac compromise 
Notre Dame is not paradise. It's not prison, either, despite what many disgruntled post-ResLife students may say. 
The reality is somewhere in between -and the University community could debate indefinitely about where that balance lies. 
Recent history of disciplinary policy changes -and the quick student outcry they prompt -indicates there has long been ten­sion in the Notre Dame family between those who make the "in loco parentis" rules and those who are expected to follow them. For the past few decades, there have always been administra­tors and rectors who detest parietals violations, and those with a more relaxed approach. There have always been students who set duLac in flames at the flrst hint O Jhe ing in women's dorms than in men's, as holding female students to a so-called higher standard of behavior only serves to paint Notre Dame as lagging behind the times in its perception of gen­der equality. 
. No disciplinary system is flawless, and administrators acknowledge the University's is imperfect. But they also daim there's an overall consistency when it comes to enforcement­"even if students don't see it." 
There's the problem. Students must see it. Student'> asked to obey relatively strict regulations need to have confidence not only that the system is designed for their best interest, but also that they are being judged fairly amongst their peers. Students who feel the system is unfairly 
of a tightened underage drinking leash, and those userver skewed will begin to distrust the University's moti­who won't touch a beer at a tailgate even after vations, and will bn more inclined to break rules they're legal. they feel are unjust. They will be less inclined to
Editorial 
Chances are, there always will be. associate the residential experience with close-
And while open discussion of policies that fun-ness of community than with overbearing disci­damentally shape the Notre Dame undergraduate experience pline, and they will leave the residence halls to live off campus should always be encouraged, it's in students' best interest to with little remorse. recognize that the rules aren't likely to collapse anytime soon So how to show students the system is fair? under the weight of their complaints. Policies that are the Transparency, for one. Any aspects of the disciplinary process University's trademark -strict punishments for parietals viola­that appear secretive -such as hall staff avoiding direct com­tions, premarital sex, hard alcohol and drugs among them -are munication with offending students-should have no place in it. also grounded in the University's values, as administrators stand Same with ResLife punishments -students should know exactly by all rules that, they say, protect the community's status as a why their offense equals 20 hours of community service, where 
positive, Catholic educational environment. 
Immersion into that environment and all its benefits -the all-encompassing "Notre Dame experience" ranging from academics to athletics to faith -also means immer­sion into residence life and the regulations that come with it. Students who embrace seemingly every aspect of the University community while simultaneously blasting its rules should recognize the hypocrisy in their arguments. Like it or not, the rules are a part of the package, and choosing to attend Notre Dame implies consent to their consequences. 
But that doesn't mean the University 
Students must see it. Students asked to obey relatively strict regulations need to have confidence not only that the system is designed for their best interest, but also that they are being judged fairly amongst their peers. 
that $100 fme will end up and what those requirements are intended to accomplish. There is also no excuse for some incoming freshmen to learn about parietals only when they arrive on campus for Orientation Weekend, or for students who get in trouble off-campus to discover weeks later that ResLife can and is also levying a punish­ment. Posting duLac online is not enough ­Notre Dame must fmd a better way to open the channels of communication with stu­dents if it expects the student body to trust its policies and enforcement. 
Respect, for another. Treating students like children -barging in on closed doors, 
should have free reign to enforce those rules irregularly or alter their consequences on a whim -which is how many frustrated and confused students perceive the current system. Interviews and statistics indicate that enforcement hinges on a variety of factors, including the offending student's gender, dorm and rec­tor and the RAs and hall staff involved. Particularly troubling are the stories of students whose rectors allegedly set in motion the students' disciplinary proceedings without so much as a timely one-on-one conversation -contradicting their own counseling roles and the punishments' "educational" intent. Equally damag­ing is the "boys will be boys" mentality that seems to justify stricter environments and harsher punishments for rule-break­causing students to feel "terrified" in their own dorms, "protect­ing" "girls" more than "boys" -demonstrates the University's disregard for students' abilities to develop their own maturity. Treating students like adults -even when they make fairly childish decisions -will demonstrate the University's respect for students' abilities to deal with the realities and consequences of independent adulthood. 
The rules aren't going anywhere, and reasonable students and administrators can and do -and will undoubtably continue to -disagree about their fairness. But there should be no debate about the fact that students deserve to see and experience a fair, consistent disciplinary system at Notre Dame. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Sexual assault dialogue needed 
In response to Sean Hoban's Nov. 17 letter to the editor "Keeping Perspective," I think he misunderstood the argu­ment Katie Kelly and others are making. He said "these e­mails should be thought of as a tool for fighting rapists rather than a slander on the victims." Had I just been sexually assaulted and the next day a reminder (in response to my assault) warned others to take precautions, watch their drinks and not to wander off with strangers, the implication is that I did not take these precautions. Sexual assault occurs whether we watch our drinks or not. 
And I'm not saying all men are rapists or that all rapists are men because this isn't true. Sexual assault affects men, women and children, so how come only women get talked to about rape? How come nobody ever talks to men about why it is not okay to sexually assault another human being? We talk to women because they are more likely to be assaulted but we don't talk to men who are more likely to be the assaulters. 
I believe Kelly's quote in the Nov. 15 Observer article, "Group voices concern over e-mail wording," was "I think it is great and important to know about [sexual assault inci­dents on campus], but it is how they put it out there that is the problem." Nobody is saying that safety precautions aren't necessary or helpful, but I think it's important to examine the information we put out, leave out, who we address and who we don't address. Kelly also acted in response to anonymous postings in an online forum page, some of which said things about a women's personal responsibility to not lead men on and to watch what they wear because women can send mixed signals. When we have people who believe that a vic­tim holds some responsibility because of what she was wear­ing then having an e-mail that states what precautions women need to take to avoid sexual assault enhances that belief. 
This is an important dialogue that needs to take place and I'm glad it's finally being addressed. Sexual assault is never okay. And if you are a victim, it is never your fault. 
Lety Verduzco Assistant Director for Community Connections Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership Saint Mary's College Nov. 18 
News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
Katie Perry Mike Gilloon 
Nicole Zook Kate Gales 
1
Are you planning to go to the last 


~' b "t ti' tt
Karen Langley Kevin Brennan 
pep rally? 

~u .•··)w·· a•.e1 ·ei
Jenny Hames Jay Fitzpatrick 
''The great thing in this world is not so 
Viewpoint Scene a. No. not enough :student seats 
much where you stand, as in what 
b. No, pep rallies are boring 

direction you are moving."
Sarah Falvey Chris McGrady 
c. Yes,! wouldn'tmissitforanything 

to the Editor at
Graphics Ram a 

Oliver Wendell Holmes 
•Poll appcRn> courtesy of

Kelly MacDonald Gottumukkala 
author
www.ndsmcobscrver.com and is h11.'\Cd 
on 302 ~J'OWI~. 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
----------~-----~ 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Friday, November 18, 2005 page 13 
The first last 
It all bngan f(w me in the fall of' '86. Some of' the details may be a little f'uzzy eonsidering that I was not yet two, but that wm; when I first eame to South Bnnd for a Notrn Dame game. From what I am told, 
we arrived in thn "Bus  
of Fun,"-an HV that  
WIL<; ~-,rreen and played  
the Fight Song when  
you honked the horn.  
You better believe I WIL<;  
one of those little girls  
drnssed in the Notre  
Damn cheerleaders'  
uniform.  
Since that first time in Molly  
1986, I have always Acker  
made it down to Notre  
Dame for football sea- Nobody Likes a  
son. I remember being  Dumb Blonde  
7 ynars old with a bro­ 
ken leg and having to  

go in a whnel ehair beeause it was too long of' 11 walk to the stadium. When I was 8 we had f'ront row seats and the Leprechaun eame over to talk to me. The lady behind mn IL<;ked what we talknd about and I rnplind. "I wasn't listnning to him. lie had rmtlly bad brnath." Sometimes when it was too cold to tailgate out-;ide we'd go to the Morris Inn. My brother and I often got in troubln li1r playing football down the halls. 
Whiln my first fi.lw ynars were mostly spnnt watehing the ehenrlnaders and beg­ging to go to the bookstore rather than 
appreeiating the action on the field, I've 
always had very fond memories of football 
season. 

It was not until I WIL<; a teenager that I really enjoyed coming down for the game itself. Once I was in high school my older brother and his friends would sneak me into the student section. It was once I expe­rienced a game from those seats that I knew I had to be a part of the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community. By my senior of high school year I pretty much knew I would be in South Bend the following fall (I was just waiting for that letter to confirm it). The last home game rolled around in 2001 and the student section put their arms around each other to sing the Alma Mater. My brother's friend said to me, "Get up here, Moll! You better sing too since you will be here with us next year." I could hardly wait to be a student. 
That first football season was so much fun. To be in the student section (legiti­mately) and be a part of the push-ups and jigs was great. In 2002 up until we played Boston College we were undefeated. Though now we know that it was mostly pure luek, it was sure fun while it lasted. We traveled down to Jacksonville for the Gator Bowl as true fans do when your team makes it a bowl game. Although we were disappointed with the loss, as a student I could never have regretted going. 
LEITERS TO THE EDITOR 

The minimum wage imperative 
I lave you nvnr stoppnd to imagine what now lbrcnd to rely on their earnings from lil'11 is like for worknrs surviving on a mini­low-paying jobs. Thus, now morp, than ever, mum wagn trying to provide l<ir themselves a minimum wage inernase is Likely to have and thnir familins'? Dons it strike you ao; an impact on reducing poverty. Combined unjust that minimum wage jobs translatn with the earned-ineome tax credit, this min­into yearly wagns below the poverty line? imum wage increase would put a family's Wt\ ollnn fail to recoj.,'Ilize the harsh realities income at $17,790 per year, about 16 per­of Amnriea's working poor not out of indif­cent above the federal poverty line. fernnen but, rathnr, out of disbelief. The The Economic Poliey Institute estimates morn rnality of a life at a low wage is that 7.3 million workers would benefit from in•:rndulous to us from our insulatnd, isolat­an increase in the minimum wage. or those ed and comfortabln towers at the University. workers, 72.1 percent are adulto; and 60.6 While thn faces and thn inherent dignity of percent are women. Taking into account persons always trump statistics, calling to spillover effects on other low-wage earners mind the numeriea.l inequality of our eco­and near-poor families, an additional8.2 nomic system will bring us closer to identi­million workers-earning up to a dollar fying with those who toil on the eurrnnt abovn thn mininmm wage would benefit minimum of $5.15 pnr hour. from an increase. Approximately 1.8 million 
For instance, did you know that the aver­parent<; with children under 18 are con­agn minimum wagn narner brings home tained within that larger 15.5 million people morn than half of his or her family's weekly who would benefit from an increiL'ie. narnin1,rs? What's morn, the minimum wage Through whichever lens you look at a mini­today is just 33 percent of the average mum wage increao;e, it would make life bet­hourly wage of American workers, the low­ter for a large number of poor and working est hwel since 1949. A-; it stands, the mini­families and individuals. mum wage in real terms Lo; 26 percent Arguments against a minimum wage lownr than it wa<; in 1979. For that majority increase usually focus on the idea that such of minimum wage workers who are the pri­. increao;es will result in job losses or will mary brnadwinnnrs of their families, their erode the fmancial well-being of businesses. income simply dons not add up. Yet several studies which looked at the 
Even with the narnnd ineome tax credit, 1996-97 increase recorded no systematic or mnant to benefit the working poor, a single signifieantjob losses a-; a result of the high­mothnr earning a minimum wage with two er wage. In fact, the researchers found that ehildmn would have a mmbined income of the low-wage market performed better $14,097, 5 percent below the federal pover­than it had in decade:; with lower unem­ty throshold of $14,824. These numbers are ployment rates, increased family income, evnn morn startling if you put mueh faith in decreased poverty rates, decreased absen­"family budget" mea-;ures of poverty which teeism and increased worker morale. suggest that the annual income neednd to Americans are partieularly fond of merit­support a family is bntween $23,000 and based 1trj.,ruments. The claim goes IL'i fol­$46,000. lows: If you work as hard a<; you can, then 
The minimum wage is not indexed to you should have your fair share of the pie. inflation and thus is only increased at Given the evidence above however, it L-; Con~-,rrnss' discretion. The lao;t increa<;e was clear that low wage workers suffer from in 19%-97, nearly 10 years ago, the sec­grossly unequal pay. Catholic Doctrine ond-longest streteh of government inaetion inli>rms us that we must have a preferential since thn minimum wage was instituted in option for the poor. So, let us begin the 1938. Wn and other Democrat<> propose process of restoring justiee to all of our that the minimum wage should be workers by committing ourselves to that increiL<;nd to $7.25 per hour by 2007. But preferential option and raising the federal would sueh an incrmL<;e really benefit that minimum wage to $7.25 per hour. many people? 
Traditionally, minimum wagn increases Peter Kralovec did not curb poverty greatly because many Colin Taylor poor families did not have any family mem­Co-Presidents bors in the paid labor force. With welfare Notre Dame CoUege Democrats reform, more poor families are, however, Nov. IS 
It seems as though my sophomore and junior football seasons kind of blur togetll­er. While the tailgating was excellent, I can­not say the same for the team. Still week in and week out we would trek over from Saint Mary's to partake in the typical game day festivities. Even though we often found ourselves saddened by the losses, we still loved football Saturday's and cheering on the Irish (did I mention the tailgating?). 
Perhaps I am just being nostalgic, but I think that this has been the best football season I can ever remember. Thanks to Charlie Weis's influence on the team we are actually good. The tailgating is even better now that my friends and I are legal. Each weekend the weather seems to be lovelier than the last. Sadly, it seems that every weekend someone's parenlo; has to remind us that we are seniors and this will all be over soon. 
I can hardly believe our last home game as seniors has come, Having always been a fan, I know this is not the end of my days of cheering for the Irish. While I have seen many seasons come and go without even a blink of the eye, this one seems to be end­ing in tears. I cannot even say that this is a bittersweet moment-it's simply sad. It seems as though this is beginning of the end. Our first of many "Iaslo;" to come. Some of us will be lucky enough to come back several times a year to the games. Others may just make it back to a few more games in their lif(~times. Either way, it will never be the same -from tomor­row on we will be like the others who come to South Bend on weekends and relive their glory days of college. This is the last time we get to sit with all of our friends and be surrounded by our fellow dassmates. This is the last time we'll stand for the entire game and put eaeh other up for push-ups. It's the last time we will get to applaud the team onee the game is over and sing the Fight Song and Alma Mater all together. 
It's not that I mean to make us all depressed about the inevitable, it is just to say that we should make this weekend even more memorable. Get into the game a little early to see the team come out of the tunnel. Go up for push-ups and do the jig. Stay for the entire game no matter how cold and wet you may be. When we sing the Alma Mater, it's okay to shnd a few tears. Though it may be our lao;t game ao; students, this is not goodbye quite yet. To all my fellow seniors, here's to a great last game. Go Irish! 
Molly Acker is a senior communication and humanistic studies double major at Saint Mary's. She can be contacted at acke675.8@saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in thi..:; column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Ovserver. 
Notre Datne show-s class 
High standard of sportsmanship 
Growing up as an Irish Catholic kid on us, but it would appear that the Notre the East Coast, I think I've always rooted Dame Football Progrmn and indnnd tlu1. for Notre Dame -that Lo; until I entered fans in attendance at a minimum appre­the United States Naval Academy after ciate that value. Not only does Coach high school in 1987. Then the Irish were Charlie Weis get "it." His tnam gets "it." relegated to my "second favorite team." The whole stadium seemed to got "it." We've seen some incredibly close games I hope that those tlmt play the gamn that seemed to give even the most cynical from the ranks of Pop Warner to tl1e NFI. Navy fan hope, only to have it all come take notice and start holding tl1emselves criL<>hing down because of something-a to such a standard of sporl-;manship, so controversial first-down spot at Memorial that the examples set by Michigan Statn, Stadium in Baltimore in 1986, the 2002 Clemson-South Carolina or Terrell Ownns game in Baltimore that saw the Irish become nothing more a bad memory. come from behind to win after scoring Much thanks to you, Coach, not just f(>r twice in the la<>t 2:20 of the game, what you have done for Notre Dame Fitzpatrick's 40-yard field goal a-; time Football, but the statement you sent to all expired to win in 2003 -I could go on, Annapolis 1-,rrads around the world and to but I won't. the game of college football. 
Despite a 42nd reason to have my Good luck to you and the University Saturday ruined, lao;t Saturday wasn't the and beat Army! case. Never have I been so moved (in a non-Army game) than what I witnessed Kevin Filan last Saturday. I don't know how a non­United States Naval Academy Academy grad can ever fully understand Class of'91 what the Navy Blue and Gold means to Nov.l!l 
Respect for Navy appreciated 
Permit me to thank you for your post­Navy will never "give up tho ship;" and game ethical demeanor and conduct fol­by 2016, we will beat Notre Dame. More lowing the recent Navy-Notre Dame foot­importantly than a football victory arn ball game. Your actions are the indicators the principles, clao;s and elegance that of the principles of your soul. Your act of you demonstrated today. Your aetions taking your football team to the Navy will be inculcated into the psyehe of both sideline to honor the playing of my Alma Notre Dame student<> and Naval Mater is a true tribute to your team, your Academy Midshipmen forever. Hespnet is fans, you and the wonderful and honor­not somnthing one talks about, respect is able institution -Notre Dame. something one shows and does. In Navy 
As a member of the United States vernacular, there is an aeronym·-Bravo Naval Academy's Oass of 1965, I wao; for­Zulu (BZ). Bravo Zulu is hoistnd in flags tunate to be present at the lao;t Navy vie­on the super structure whnn a ship or an tory over Notre Dame. Every year we individual does an out-;tanding job. "leave it out on the field" in our duel with Bravo Zulu, Charlie Weis-you are a Notre Dame and it is an honor for our true professional and a eredit to the team to participate in games against humanness of God's ereatures. Notre Dame; however, we have been on the losing side of the ledger in the lao;t 42 James Savard games. What Notre Dame students, fans, United Smtes Naval Academy your team and you did on Saturday was Class of'65 pure class. Nov. 18 


page 14 
'Harry Potter and 
the Goblet of Fire' Release date: Nov. 18 Distributor: Warner Bros. Budget: $150 mil. 
Mike Newell eleventh career film 
lifetime gross total: 
$195.7 mil. 

Previous high film: 
"Mona Usa Smile" $63.9 mil. 
a: 
L&.l 
..... 
..... 
0 
a.. 
>
a: 
a: 
<C 
:::1: 
~ 
z
a: 
<C 
z 





THE 0HSERVER 
CENE 
Friday, November 18, 2005 


ACTING 

"Potter" returns its core cast of young actors, who have only improved with each successive film. The series also features a solid supporting cast anchored by Robbie Coltrane as the lovable half-giant Hagrid and screen veteran Alan Hickman as the sneering Professor Snape. 
"Narnia" takes a gam­ble by going the "Harry Potter" route -casting mostly unknowns in the lead roles. Balancing this young talent is a veteran supporting cast, which includes Jim Broadbent as Professor Kirk and Liam Neeson as the com­manding voice of Asian. 

HEADT 
Potter series due to tlie belief that it promotes
By MOLLY GRIFFIN witchcraft and the occult. Hichard Abanes's 
Assistant Scene Editor book, "Harry Potter, Narnia and the Lord of 
the Rings: What You Need to Know About 
The word "controversy" rarely applies to Fantasy Books and Movies," differentiates children's movies, as they're typically squeaky­between Christian fantasy, such as the Narnia clean, G-rated films. The looming holiday and The Lord of the Hings, and those that pro-ti~ movie season, though, has not one but two mote un-Christian behavior, like "Harry ch movies aimed at the elementary-school set 
Potter." 

that are sparking debate before they even Others, such as author Connie Neal, writer of is rl reach the theatres. "What's a Christian to Do with Harry Potter?" th 
"llarry Potter and the Goblet of Fire" .and claim that "I larry Potter" does promote virtue m1 "The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and is worthwhile for Christians to read. tl and the Wardrobe" are both inspiring contro­While some degree of controversy is expect-se versy, and, strangely enough, they have a com­ed around the Harry Potter series, the Y1 mon root: Christianity. Christian-themed "The Chronicles of Narnia" 'A 
Many Christians have debated The Harry is unexpectedly stirring up debate. 
DIRECTING  ··. SCREENWRITING,  
Mike Newell is the third  "Harry Potter"· scribe  
director in four iilms for  Steven Klov(;ls has handled  
the "Harry Potter" fran­ the writing duties for all  
chise. He is a veteran  four films in the series. His  
director but he has 11. tough  writing has become tighter  
act to follow in Alfonso  and more effective with  
Cuaron, whose "Prisoner of  each ensuing effort. Here  
Azkaban" was easily the  he has the mammoth task  
best or the series so far.  of condensing a 734-page  
Newell's credits include  book into a 157-minute  
mostly romantic comedies.  feature film.  
Adamson is no stranger  The first installment in a  
to fantasy, as his skewered  proposed "Narnia" fr~n­ 
fairy tales "Shrek" and  chise features no less than  
"Shrek 2" met with com­ four accredited screenwrit­ 
mercial success and criti­ ers, including Adamson  
cal acclaim. It remains to  himself. Whether or not he  
be seen if he can translate  can emerge with a cohe­ 
his animated triumphs to  sive vision remains to be  
a big-budget epic like  seen. This unique chal­ 
"Narnia," but he has  lenge may prove to be the  
shown a touch for sequels.  key to the film's success.  
Newell's ftlmography is  Kloves,Tinally hit his  
uneven at best and he  stridf, in ~Azkaban," the  
has yet to be tested in a  third "Pott(lr."· film, and  
project as big' as 'iJiarry  hopes to continue the  
Potter." Fortunately~'be is  trend in "Goblet of Fire."  
supported by a Gtew well­ Adamson's scr(lenplay for  
versed in th~,~'tiarry  . "Shrek 2" proves that he is  
Potter" world. Aliamson  a capable writer but split- 
has provt,nllis. mlttle, but  . ting time with three other  
"Narnia" rn"'Mt¥'ftrst live­ cQllaborators may impede  
action directorial venture.  a cohesive vision.  


PLOT 
"Goblet of Fire" signals the turning point in the series as the plot i'i deeper and darker than the previ­ous films. The crux of thP action -the Triwizard Tournament -and the growing threat of Lord Voldemort's return cast a pall of foreboding doubt over the proceedings. 
The inaugural "Narnia" picture has the challenge of introducing a vast world to uninitiated view­ers, much like the first film in Peter Jackson's "Lord of the l'lings" trilogy. In the novel, Lewis pres­ents a world that is both whimsical and scary, often at the s;tme time. 
"Goblet of Fire" has the advantage of familiarity, but "Narnia" is also a story tl1at is beloved by m Both 


e: 
« 
~ 
~ 
>-:J 
~~ 
:J 1--<f­:><f­
r.uo 
1--<Cl 




Brian Doxtader Assistant Scene Editor 

-. ,..
. ,~ .,"''• 11 
17 

11 
0 
,•~ 
... 
:\ft, .. 
'~) 
)4 
B 
Jl 
·' 11~ \ 
" u 


Friday, November 18, 2005

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
MEN's INTERHALL FooTBALL 
Intense dorm rivalry sets stage for Stadium battle 
tured the interhall championship By CATHERINE KANE last fall, capping an undefeated Sports Wrirer season. This year, the Knights 
come to the field with one loss to 
With victories two weeks ago Dillon, while the Bats lly in with in the semifinals, Keenan and a perfect record. Zahm added a little allure to one Both teams feel they have of Notre Dame's biggest dorm greatly improved on and oiT the rivalrins. Sunday, that dorm field throughout the course of rivalry will serve as thn back­the season. drop to thn biggest men's inter­"Our team's rushing game has hall football game of the year. improved the most," Gourley 
Zahm and Keenan won out in said. "Linemen are making holes the Blue and Gold leagues, bigger and [Zahm running back] respectively, and will battle for Theo Ossei-Anto is finding them the interhall championship in bettM than [he was] at the Notre Same Stadium. beginning of the season." 
"I am excited to play in Notre Lyzinski said he too has seen Dame Stadium, obviously, and progress in his team since the play for the championship of the beginning of the season. best intramural football in the "We've really come together country, especially as my last this year as a team, and that is football game ever," senior our biggest improvement," he Zahm captain Pat Gourley said. said. "At the start of the year, it 
His counterpart at Keenan seemed like we had the talent to agreed. do something special, especially 
"We are excited for the amaz­with guys like Dan Zenker, Ben guys who can just flat-out play," and we're hoping to continue developed during the season. ing opportunity to play in the Kaplan and Brandan Hall. And he said. "Our skill position play­that trend into the Stadium," he "Factors that led to our team's Stadium," Knights captain and it's been the unselfish team atti­ers with the Zenker brothers, said. "Defensively, I can't say success have been the chemistry lineman Vince Lzyinski said. "It's tude that really has brought that Rob Coly at quarterback and enough. Hall, Kaplan, linebacker and the commitment of this been a dream of mine and most talent out." Alex Staffieri at halfback give us Ben Ramsour and the rest of our team," he said. "We get just of the guys on the team for as Each captain said his team has so many threats on offense, and defense has really been able to about everyone out for practices. long as we can remember. Just enough playmakers ready to that allows us to be a very bal­shut down the other teams and Our trust in each other is the to be able to step foot on that fight for the interhall title for his anced offensive team." always put us in a position to best I have seen in my four hallowed ground of Rockne and team to win Sunday. Lyzynski said the Keenan line­win. Heck, we've let up 13 points years." Montana is surreal." Lyzynski said the Knights are men and defense complement total on the season. That says Kickoff is at 1:30 p.m. Sunday 
For many Knights, however, strongest at skill positions. the Knights' offensive weapons enough about our 'D."' in Notre Dame Stadium. · Sunday will not be their first "We have an great mix of well. Gourley, on the other hand, time playing in the champi­upperclassman and underclass­"Our line has really pulled attributes the Bats' outstanding Contact Catherine Kane at onship game, as Keenan cap-men, and honestly we have some together in the last few weeks, record to the team bond that has ckane2@nd.edu 

Zahm follows a traditional championship formula 

Rushing attack and defensive prowess power the Rabid Bats 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sporrs Wrirer 
If a team is going to be inter­hall champion, it has to do two things: run and play defense. And there is no better example in 2005 of this championship formula than the Rabid Bats of Zahm. 
Zahm, led by running backs Theo Ossei-Anto and Cameron Muhlenkamp, has run all over its opponents throughout the regular season and in the play­offs. 
In the Bats' most recent game, the semifinal match against Morrissey Manor, the two running backs combined for more than 100 yards -71 from Ossei-Anto and 42 from Mulhenkamp. More importantly, Zahm scored its sole touchdown on a one-yard run by Ossei­Anto. 
The Rabid Bats might not have made the playoffs -and certainly would not have been the top-ranked undefeated team -without the play of Theo Ossei-Anto. 
"Theo has had a great impact on this year's team," Zahm cap­tain Pat Gourley said. "He's quick, and even though he is a little guy, he still is very tough." 
Mulhenkamp, who lines up in front of Ossei-Anto at fullback, has also been a vital component of the Rabid Bats' successes this season. With his size and strength, Muhlenkamp has been able to find the holes in oppos­ing defensive lines and create holes of his own where there are none to get short-yardage gains needed this season. 
Zahm's offense this year scored nine touchdowns, and although the scores were about evenly distributed between passing and rushing, the drives were clearly propelled by the powerful running back duo of Ossei-Anto and Muhlenkamp. But the rushing touchdowns are not the sole glory of the running backs, and the team is content with its offensive balance in the red zone. 
With a solid offensive line that can create holes for the running backs, Zahm's rushing offense is often overpowering. 
"The offensive line has been essential in our offense this year," Gourley said. 'They open all the holes and help us get the scores." 
The Zahm defense has also played exceptionally well, forc­ing turnovers at opportune times and, more importantly, not allowing big plays by its opponents. 
With the semifinal on the line, Muhlenkamp, who doubles as running back and outside line­backer, stepped up and made a game-changing interception that propelled the Rabid Bats into the Stadium. 
The defense contained and crushed opposing offenses all year and hopes to do so one more time Sunday. 
To shut down any pass attempts by the opponent's quarterback, corners Kris Patterson and Eddie Gutierrez have kept opposing receivers in check. But Gourley said the entire defense deserves the credit for the Bats' unblemished record. 
"There are no single [defen­
sive] players that I can identify as the best," he said. "Our cor­ners have been stepping up all year, the whole defensive line is playing great this year and our middle linebackers are stuffing the run. Overall, it's been a great year on defense." 
This year's No. 1 seed is not the first to recognize that suc­cess in interhall football rests on mastering defense and rush­ing. Past finals games have exhibited the importance of a solid defense. 
In the 2003 championship game, both Dillon and Siegfried relied mainly on incredible defenses to reach the finals. Dillon's defense allowed only 17 points all year, while Siegfried entered the championship game by forcing turnovers throughout the postseason. 
Keenan, 2004 champion, dominated teams all season with a 7-0 record thanks to powerful running back Alex Staffieri and fullback Reed Langton. The Knights' opponent last year, Knott, had a 2-2 record in the regular season but won its first two playoff games with a stingy defense that forced four interceptions. 
Although the championship was dominated by passing attacks, it was the steady run­ning games that brought the two teams to the finals. 
Zahm has the two key ingre­dients for success waiting for the championship game on Sunday. Ossei-Anto and Muhlenkamp stand ready to pound the Knights, a relentless rushing attack against a defense that has proved itself in all six games this year. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
Friday, November 18, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
PW's Weasels seek redemption against Pangborn 
onship," Pasqunrilla W11st cap­perfecting all of' our plays,"
Teams ready for tough 
tain Julin Putnam said. "We'm Pangborn sophomore defen­championship game going to bring our gamn, just sive lineman Kristin Drach 
like wn have in every single said. "We're not in theSunday in Stadium ganw. We havn a lot of spirit Stadium just to be there, we're 
and wn rnally Jove tlw gamn tlwre to win. This is going to 
and going out tlwre, and we'll be an intense week."
By Tl M KAISER 
try our host. Frogameni and Drach said Sport' Writl'r 
"We don't doubt that we havn the Phoxes are especially 
tho ability. We'rn going to bring working on their pass defense, 
Two teams will 1~ntnr the it." and Koors said Pangborn was Stadium through t.hn sanw t.un­Tho Purple Weasels fool thny "very focused." Several rwl Sunday to play for thn 2005 loarnml from the Joss and said Pangborn players said they are Wornnn's lnterhall Football they'll be ready this timn. looking forward to showcasing Championship, but the paths "!Thn first game against the team's passing game, tlwy took to this point couldn't Pangborn was I bnfore we which took a backseat in the lw morn difTnrnnt. dPvnlopPd a couple of new semilinal due to strong winds. 
Tlw l'angbo rn l'hoxns, th n things on oiTcnsn and dof't~nse," Koors said a balanced No. 2 sned with a 5-l rngular Putnam said. "That game was o!Tonse helps her team play s1~ason record and 1:{-0 drub­the ignition to our new strate­the full .60 minutes. · bing of' Walsh in thn semifinals, gies that we'vc used this sea­"We're n.ot just a first-half will fa1~e tlw Pasqunrilla West. son." team anymore; we can play Purple Wnasnls, the No. 5 seed Neither team has reached the the whole game," she said. that rompilnd a 3-1-2 rngular­championship in the last four Putnam said Pasquerilla sPason roeord and upset top­years, so this is a first-time West will look to "continue our seeded Cavanaugh last week in experience for all of the players defensive strength, and not Jet an ovortimo thriller to make it on both teams. up. We won't run anything too to tho rhampionship game. "It's really fun to be a part of tricky, we'll just play our 
Thn two teams playnd onre in all the excitement of playing in game. We're having normal tlw regular sea-the Stadium," practice, nothing special." son. with Pangborn fresh­"We'll stick with our regular Pangborn coming "We'll stick with our man defensive game, fight hard and play to out on top 20-0 regular game, fight lineman Nicole win," PW wide receiver and on Sept. 29, but Koors said. safety Maureen Spring said.
hard and play to
both squads know "We haven't "There will be nothing new or
win.,,

this will be a won a champi­fancy, just what we've been totally different onship since doing the whole season." ganw. 1993," Putnam Pangborn will look to star
Maureen Spring 
"Wn played I'W said. running back Bryon Johnson
PW receiver
hnforn and won," Though playing to carry the offense along with Pangborn sopho-in Notre Dame quarterback Katie Mooney, moro linebacker Ali Frogameni Stadium is a dream for many, and the Phoxes are confident Both teams think they will the year. said. "But thny've gottnn bettor, each team said it will not let its they will get big games from come out on top on Sunday "It was our goal all season, so we'rn not overconfident." nerves get to it during tho Katie Hiersma and Stephanie and acknowledge their paths we worked hard and we hoped 
Tlw l'urpln Weasels also game -channeling players' Lewis on both sides of the ball. to the Stadium were very dif­for it," Frogamnni said. 
-

t.hi.uk ~hcy'v1~. s~ruck the right .excitement in~o playmaking But they know the whole team ferent. Koors had an even strongnr balance b~twoen caution and instead. " will have to play well for them "We took it one game at a opinion. 1~onfidence. Both teams are doing some to win. time, one play at a time, even, "It was oxpectnd," she said. 
"We'rn not overconfident, but extra preparation for the big "All the girls are crazy," and it all added up," Putnam "We knew it from day one." we're not Jacking confidence. day to prepare in that regard. Drach said, "In the Stadium, said. We'rn rnally excited, really "Our practice this week is anyone could have great The Phoxes displayed confi­Contact Tim Kaiser at proud to be in the champi-geared towards perfection, game." dence since the beginning of tkaiser@nd.edu 

Putnam and Schmidt are the Weasels' unsung heroes 
Two Pasquerilla West linemen take pride in helping rest ofdefense shut down opposing offenses all season 

are always quoting 'Napoleon regular season games, the chain reaction that leads to are good to have because they By CHRIS HINE Dynamite' and entertaining Weasels won their first two many interceptions. They have give you strategy on how to Sports Writer themselves. We just stand playoff games in overtime to the ability to corral the quar­get to the quarterback," 
back and shake our heads." advance to the finals. terback, get pressure on her Putnam said. 
Caroline Schmidt and Julie All kidding aside, Schmidt, a But the duo's contributions and make her throw a bad In the first game of the year Putnam, two juniors who com­chemistry major, and Putnam, often go unnoticed in the game pass." against Farley, tho Weasel prise the defensive line of a marketing and political sci­summary. Schmidt and Putnam said defense had throe goal-line Pasquerilla West, describe ence major, are a large part of "They do a great job pres­there is more to their stands. thmnselves as "the elowns of the reason the Weasels will be suring the quarterback, which defense's success than just the The unit recorded two tho team" -and linebacker playing at Notre Dame makes the job of the defensive pressure. against McGlinn in the first Gretchen Hyan agrees. Stadium Sunday in the cham­backs a little easier," PW "We've realized our role and round of the playoffs, and on 
"They always act crazy at pionship against Pangborn. coach Joe McCarthy said. we're not the only ones," Sunday, it was Schmidt's sack 
practice," Hyan said. "They After winning just three of six "They are the first in line of a Schmidt said. "It's the defen­in overtime on third-and-goal sive backs, offensive line, and from the 3 that helped seal the every part of the team. We Weasels' victory over might not be the rah-rah Cavanaugh. stars, but if you play your "Our defense prides itself on position well each time and do goal-line stands," Hyan said. your part, it might not have a Those stops begin and end huge significance then, but with the defensive line, and over the course of the game that's why Schmidt and you make your impact." Putnam are so important to 
Putnam said that impact PW. begins before the snap. When the duo takes the 
"The huddles are ridicu­field, all their energy is lous," she said. "There's this focused on winning. fire and intensity we have that "It's very easy to get com­wasn't there before. Last year fortable on the field," Schmidt there was a lot of rotating of said. "At the end of a play, we positions, but now there's a say to ourselves, 'Gee, we set number and the same peo­should actually try on this ple play the same positions." next play.' And we say, 'We 
This lack of rotation has have nothing else to do but enabled Schmidt and Putnam homework when the game is to specialize in their positions. over, so we might as well give 
"Last year, our defensive line it all we got."' coach, Jess Greenwood, helped us learn how to zig-zag Contact Chris Hine at around and do spin moves that chine@nd.edu 

Friday, November 18, 2005 
11 unusual argunwnl has lwnn positml by llip Pullman, a childrnn's fantasy writm 1 autiHirl'd "Thn Coldnn Compass." in an 
•rviPw with a UK rwwspaper, Tho Obsnrvnr. 
lman rlaims that tlw hooks contain, " ... a ish blend of racist., misogynistie and roac­
ary prPjudir<~; hut of lovo, of' Christian 
rit.y, ltlwn• islnot a tra<:n." mtrowrsy has also arisnn in how tiw lilm 
•i11g markntmJ. Thnrn arn thosn who fool t.hP sPrins' Christian tlwnws arn !wing ~~~~ phasizPd, and tlwn~ arn otlwrs who li~ni t.lwy an~ hPing downl'iaynd so that tho ~s ran kn<~p up with "I larry Pottnr." A Nnw 
Tinws artirln Pntith~d. "Marketing Narnia hou t a1 Christian Lion" q unstiorwd tlw nt t.o whi<:h tlw Christianity .was going to 
"i~ · AUTHOR 



THE OBSERVER 
CENE­

z 

r 
:J 
z 
be washod from the sories in order to achieve wider popularity. 
Othor groups son the "Narnia" series as an opportunity to opon tho Christian message up to now audiences. A group called Catholic Outroad1 has advertised for 150 coordinators to promotn film a<:ross the country. and many hopn that tho film will bn a success on par with not only "I larry Pottnr" but with another sue­eossful Christian film -"The Passion of' the ChrisL." 
Both "I larry Pollor" and "Tho Chronicles of Narnia" will f'ae(~ eritics and admirnrs. While debates ragn. the ultimate question will have to be sdtled at tho box oflko. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
HEROES VILLAINS 

INTANGIBLES 
page 15 

'The Chronicles of Narnia' 
Release date: Dec. 9 Distributor: Buena Vista Budget: ·$150 mil. 
Andrew Adamson 
third career film 
Lifetime gross total: $708.9 mil. Previous high film: 
"Shrek 2" $441.2 mil. Andrew Adamson director 


THE CHRONICLES OF NARNIA: THE LION. THE WITCH AND THE WARDROBE · ... ,~ 
There are a thousand stories In the land 
of Namla••. the first Is about to be told. 
Asian (Voice by llam Neeson) The presence of Asian In Namia is supposed to end the reign of the White Witch, and he is part of the battle between the sides of good and evil for control of the magical land. He appean to be a Christ-like figure in the book, because he Is killed but rises from the dead. 
::1: 
l>
::c 
::c 
-<
, 
0 
::J 
m 
::c 
2 
l>
::c 
z 
l> 
l> 
z 
l> 
~ 
en 
u; 


· ThP millions of "ilarry  Whiin I larry himself is  . The principal throat in  The recent summer  
l'ottnr!' novnls sold world­ tho titular star, most of the  the "Potter" series, Lord  release of the massively  
"'4i!IP sp11ak Jiw tiwmsdvns.  othnr lwroes arc given  Voldomort-played by  successful "Harry Potter  
.J.J<~·-Howiing, onen a stay­ nquai liJOting in the snl"ies,  Ralph Pionnes -finally  and the llaif-Biood Prince"  
at-honw mot.iwr. has par­ including his bnst friends  makes his long-awaited  has heightened the excite­ 
layml lwr uniqun wizard  Hon and ilormiono. Tho  physieal dnbut in "Goblet of  ment around the Potter­ 
world into a gnnuirw phn­ adults in tho story - Fire." Adding to the intJiguo  mania juggernaut. A PG­ 
nonumon. Nnarly a dneado  notably Dumbledorn and  is tho fact that no images of  13 rating has raised some  
allnr tlw rdnasn of the first  Ilagrid -are also wnll­ Voldomort's appearance  eyebrows and piqued  
hook, Uw franehisn shows  mprosonted and provid~l  have eseaped the film's set,  interest around the dark­ 
no signs ofslowing down.  mueh-neodnd h'llidanco.  ioaving his visage a mystery.  est "Potter" film to date.  
C.S. l.ewis ­a one-time Oxlin·d proli~ssor and friend of "Lord of the Hings" author .I.H.H. Tolkinn -is onn of thn world's most h<~lovnd authors and "Thn <Jmmidns of Na.rnia" is his mosl rnnownnd work. The series slattt-; as <m ondur­ingiy popular elassic is unqw~stionahln.  The world of Narnia itself revolves around the benevolent lion A'llan, who guides the Povensie chil­drnn as they explore their strange but fascinating new surroundings. Akin to the "Harry Potter" series, the first "Narnia" film boasts ib own strong core ofyoung characters.  Castihg Tilda Swinton as the White Witch, a merci­less ruler who threatens the safety of Narnia, was a stroke of brilliance. She brings her iey, unrelenting stare and ethereal appear­ance to the role. Swinton has also shown a penchant fbr subversive roles in films like "The Beach."  The success of the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy -including it'> 11 Oscars two years ago -has raised awareness of Lewis's own fantasy masterpieces. The underlying Christian mes­sage has been a key plat­form for the film's market­ing strategy, similar to "The Passion of the Christ."  
While Howling is 1,mdoubtedly among tho world's must. popular liv­ing authors, she hus not yet. completed tltf' It 'llarry l'otlt~r" opus, so judgnwnt has to hn n~served. l.owis' reputation as a tiinelnss storytnller l.ul:ts qJt!in him a pernnniallat'l'iiitn among both readers and critics.  Both "Narnia" and "I larry Pottnr" feature a wise mentor ­Asian and Dum  Whilen'Swinton will imptess in a star-making turn, the shom' malevo­lence of Lord Voldemort will provide a sinister adversary for Harry. Fionnns bas demonstrat­ed his ability to play pure evil, as previously seen in his performance as a Nazi in "Schindler's List."  There's little doubt that "Goblet of Fire" will fol­low in the proven finan­cial track of its predeces­sors. But the future sue­cess of the" ·~arnia" serins hinges on tQis first effort. Therefore.• this lilm has, greater immedi­ate risk" andjll:ncntiaiiy morn to gain this winter.  


"Th<l Chronielns of Narnia" towers above "I larry Potter" in literary history. While audinnees will finally got a chance to see Lewis's works translated into a big-budgnt film. tho "llarry Pottnr" snrins holds tim upper hand f(lr il'l ability to enthrall the ehildrnn of this generation. "Narnia" has a litir chance for box ollkn glory, but "I larry l'ottnr" will reign supreme this winter. 
PREDICTION: Harry Potter ···l)(ft Narnla 1)'1)(9-1) 

When "I larry Potter and the Goblet of Firn" gons head to head with "The Lion, tho Witch, and the Wardrobe," it is going to be a nasty, lough­limght. and magical brawl. Both movins will have 
Scene

strong plots, amazing visuals and stunning atten­tion to detail. However, the provnn cast of "I larry Pottnr" will not be strong enough, and Namia will edge the pormmial power by a hair. 
experts 

PREDICTION: Harry Potter Narnia 


page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, November 18, 2005 
NBA 

Garnett, Timberwolves overcome 33 points from Arenas to down Wizards; Spurs' defense grounds Rockets' attack 
Howard's 25 lead Mavs past winless Hawks 

Associated Press  "We had a bad shooting night.  40-33 at the break.  
We really had to fight those guys  
DALLAS The Dallas  off," Howard said. "What helped  Timberwolves 109, Wizards 98  
Mavericks shot under 40 percent and committed 16 turnovers.  us out was we fmished strong at the end of quarters."  Kevin Garnett's play drew nearly as much attention as his  
That was still enough to extend  Zaza Pachulia led the Hawks  pregame criticism of Minnesota  
the Atlanta Hawks' season-open­ing losing streak to eight games.  with a career-high 21 points. Atlanta and the Toronto Raptors  Timberwolves vice president Kevin McHale. ·  
Josh Howard had 25 points  are the league's only winless  Garnett had 25 points, 13  
- and five blocked shots, and Dirk Nowitzki added 20 points and 13  teams ­both at 0-8. The Hawks took no solace  rebounds and nine assists to lead Minnesota to a 109-98 vic­ 
rebounds, helping Dallas to an  from making the Mavericks  tory over the Washington  
87-78 victory Thursday night.  work for the win.  Wizards on Thursday night.  
Dallas got off to a sluggish  "The only morale boost is for  "He dominates in the first  
start, falling behind 16-11 in the  us to get a win," Atlanta coach  three quarters and in the fourth  
first quarter, the Mavericks' low­ Mike Woodson said. "This was a  quarter, everybody pays atten­ 
est-scoring quarter of the sea­ winnable game. We scraped and  tion to him and he finds every­ 
son.  scratched but they were a little  body else," Gilbert Arenas said.  
But the Mavericks used a 29­ better at the end of the game."  "That's ·why he's No. 1 in the  
point second quarter for a  Joe Johnson scored 18 points,  world."  
seven-point halftime lead, and  and AI Harrington added 15  Wally Szczerbiak scored 17  
the Hawks were never able to  points and 10 rebounds for  points, and Richie Frahm and  
get closer than three the rest of  Atlanta.  Troy Hudson added 16.  
the way.  Dallas held a 65-57 lead head­ "It took a little load off me,"  
"It was a weird game for us,"  ing into the fourth quarter.  APsaid Garnett, of his teammates'  
Nowitzki said. "We never got  The Hawks got within 81-77  San Antonio Spurs guard Manu Ginobill looks for an open manscoring.  
going. It was an ugly basketball  on Johnson's three-point play  during the Spurs' 121-115 victory over the Rockets Thursday.Garnett then handled ques­ 
game but at the end we made the right plays to win the game." Keith Van Horn added 14  with 2:12 left, but the Mavericks finished with a 6-1 run over the fmal1:36 to seal the victory.  tions about his pregame com­ment on TNT that last year McHale, "wanted in his heart to  straight. The Wizards had five players in double figures, but no  the game. However, the Rockets scored  
points for the Mavericks, who  "The Mavericks missed 15 of 20  coach, but he didn't want the  one could prevent Garnett from  six straight points to make it 72­ 
won their fourth straight,  shots from the field in the open­ . responsibility of being a coach."  filling up the stat sheet.  58 on David Wesley's jumper  
improving to 3-0 at home and 6­2 overall.  ing quarter, and Nowitzki went scoreless in 10:51 of the first  McHale took over for the fired Flip Saunders halfway through a  Spurs 86, Rockets 80  with 9:43 left. McGrady began to score rapid­ 
Dallas held Atlanta to 38 per­cent shooting, the second straight game in which the  quarter before getting nine in the second quarter. Dallas played better defense at  disappointing season, filled with player bickering and lackluster performances.  Needing a score to hold off the late-surging Houston Rockets, Robert Horry came through  ly late, including two jumpers and a free throw that cut the lead to six with 2:24 to go.  
Mavericks limited an opponent  the urging of coach Avery  "Kevin has a very, very high  once again with a clutch, 3­ "We just have to make sure  
to less than 90 points and 40 percent shooting. Atlanta fin­ished 1-for-9 from 3-point range.  Johnson, holding Atlanta to 7­for-20 shooting in the second quarter, and the Mavericks led  basketball IQ," Garnett said after the game. "But managing egos and things, I don't think he  pointer for the San Antonio Spurs. ''I'm just happy we got a win,"  that we don't make mistakes in the fourth quarter like we did tonight," said Tony Parker, who  
wants to do that."  said Horry, who had 16 points in  had 1 7 points for the Spurs.  
McHale said he knows Garnett  the Spurs'86-80 victory  McGrady seemed on track to  
was frustrated with last season,  Thursday night.  possibly repeat his heroics from  
in which the Wolves failed to  Tracy McGrady led Houston  last Dec. 9 when he scored nine­ 
make the playoffs for the first  with a game-high 27 points and  points in the final 35 seconds  
time in eight seasons.  12 rebounds, but was held to 0-7  against the Spurs, including a  
"I hope he wants to be here,"  shooting in the first half. Yao  last-second three, that gave the  
McHale said after the game.  Ming had 19 points, but just one  Rockets an improbable 81-80  
"There's a lot of uneasiness in  in the second half.  win at home.  
the changes we've made."  Tim Duncan had 19 points and  McGrady "scares me from the  
One of major changes was hir­ nine rebounds and Manu  time I get up in the morning  
ing Dwane Casey, and Garnett  Ginobili had 15 points and four  until the game ends," Spurs  
made sure to say that he thinks  steals. San Antonio, which shot  coach Gregg Popovich said.  
the coach has the team on the  46 percent compared to  "He's done it game after game  
right track. Garnett did not  Houston's 38.9 percent, domi­ after game .... He's like a Robert  
express any unhappiness with  nated on defense and inside,  [Horry] in that he's a pro. He's  
being in Minnesota.  scoring 52 points in the paint in  confident. He single-handedly  
"There has been not one nega­ a game that seemed as if the  brought them back."  
tive thing about KG," Casey said  Spurs would cruise to victory.  McGrady credited the  
in response to the pregame com­ After Juwan Howard's layup  Spurs'Bruce Bowen, who guard­ 
ments. "I love the guy."  cut Houston's deficit to 64-52  ed him most of the night, in  
Six Timberwolves players  with 2:58 left in the third quar­ helping stop the surge.  
scored in double figures as  ter, San Antonio scored the next  "Facing a guy like Bruce  
Minnesota snapped a two-game  eight points to stretch their lead  Bowen, you just have to try to  
losing streak.  to 20 points. Horry scored the  block everything out and con­ 
AP  Arenas had 33 points and  last six points of the run, capped  centrate on the moment,"  
Mavericks guard Marquis Daniel s, left, battles Zaza Pachulia for  Caron Butler added 15 for  by a pair of free throws for a 72­ McGrady said. "That's a tough  
Washington, which has lost two  52 lead with 11:19 remaining in  night of work."  

a loose ball in Dallas' 87-78 win over the Hawks Thursday night. 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all SP,aces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
CHRISTMAS HELP NOW! $12.25 base/appt Flexible sched­ules around classes, customer sales & service, conditions apply, all ages 17 & older. Call Now! 574-273-3835. 
FoR RENT 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 
123 ND Ave. 3 bdrm, 1.5 bath. Call574-229-0149. 
Area Houses and Apartments for rent Log on to MichianaRentals.com Caii574-993-RENT (7368). 

KRAMER PROPERTIES HOUSES FOR LEASE FOR THE 06/07 SCHOOL YEAR. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 4 BEDROOMS, UP TO 10 BEDROOMS. CALL 315-5032 ASK FOR KRAMER. 
GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGHBORHOODS 06/07 & 07/08 andersonNDrentals.com 574-233-9947 
3-6 bdrm homes for 06/07. Also avail. now. 574-329-0308. 
. House for rent. 3 BR, 1 BA, 2 Car Gar. Clay Area. $700/mo. 574-21 0-8308. 
For rent: Two story house completely remodeled 2003. Ready for immediate occupancy or next semester or next school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, central station monitored security system, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student housing, Laundromat next door, basement available for storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc., new furnace and central air, new kitchen includ­ing new stove and refrigerator, large living room for TV or entertaining, free trash removal. Call 289-4071. 
908 SB Ave: Roomy 6-7 bdrm home 4 blocks to ND. 2 baths, w/d, broadband internet incl. Avail. 06-07 & 07-08 school year. 
327 Hill St: NEED A HOME TODAY? NEED A SECOND CHANCE? Very nice 3 bdrm home. Close to ND & Corbys. Broadband internet option. WID & alarm system avail. Move in today. Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 or email JCrimmins@myLandGrantcom 
Closest house to campus. 2-min. walk to library. Fully furnished,new carpet 
.-& appliances. 2-car garage. Avail Now. Just bring clothes. John 949-456-0343. $895. 
HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6 bdrms includes all utilities, local phone,washer/dryer,security system. $400/student. 574-315-2509 ndstudentrentals.com 2006 SPRING SEMESTER NOW AVAILABLE. 
.Stop overpaying for rent 
• Visit BlueGoldrentals.com 
New 3-4 Bedroom Homes, 3 full Baths, 2+ Car Garage, Fireplace, Cathedral Ceilings, 10x20 Deck, Close to Campus. $1700 monthly. Available Aug. 06/07, Call574-232-4527, 269-683-5038. 
TICKETS 

WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. 
BUYING & SELLING ND FOOTBALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911. 
4 SYRACUSE TIXS FOR SALE.329-0308 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 Days from $2991 Includes Meals, MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica From $499! Campus Reps Needed! PromoCode:31 www.springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 


OUND THE NATION ... 
Friday, November 18, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Page 17 
NBA 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team  record  prt.  GB  
Philadelpiha  6-3  .667  
New Jersey  4-4  .500  1.5  
Boston  3-5  .375  2.5  
New York  2-6  .250  3.5  
Toronto  0-8  .000  5.5  

Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team record pel. GB 
Detroit 7-0 1.000 Cleveland 6-2 .750 1.5 Milwaukee 5-2 .714 2 Indiana 4-3 .571 3 Chicago 3-4 .429 4 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
ln;un rncord p(;t. GB 
Washington 5-2 .714 Miami 5-3 .625 .5 Orlando 3-4 .429 2 Charlotte 3-6 .333 3 Atlanta 0-7 .000 5 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
lnam rneord pet. G B 
Portland 3-3 .500 Denver 4-5 .444 .5 Utah 4-5 .444 .5 Minnesota 3-4 .429 .5 Seattle 3-5 .375 1 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
l.t~am rm:ord pet. GB 
LA Clippers 6-2 .750 Golden State 5-4 .556 1.5 LA Lakers 4-4 .500 2 Phoenix 3-4 .429 2.5 Sacramento 3-5 .375 3 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
lPam rnrord pet. GB 
San Antonio 6-2 .750 Dallas 5-2 .714 .5 Memphis 6-3 .667 .5 Houston 3-4 .429 2.5 New Orleans 2-5 .286 3.5 
USCHO.com Hockey poll 
team record points 
1 Michigan 9-1-1 783 
2 Wisconsin 7-1-2 751 
3 Colorado College 9-2-1 721 
4 Maine 9-3-0 653 
5 Cornell 4-2·0 596 
6 Boston College 4-2·1 583 
7 North Dakota 7-4·1 530 
8 Vermont 8-2-0 494 
9 New Hampshire 6·3·1 483 
10 Minnesota 5-3-2 430 
11 Denver 5·4-1 405 
12 Miami 6·2-0 369 
13 Michigan State 5·3-2 36 
14 Alaska-Fairbanks 4-2-2 232 
15 St. Lawrence 7-3-0 199 
16 Bemidji Slate 7-1-0 192 
17 Colgate 6·2-1 181 
18 Boston University 3·4·0 103 
19 Harvard 3·2·0 89 
20 Northern Michigan 5·5-0 69 
around the dial 
NBA 
Orlando at Cleveland 7:00 p.m., ESPN Detroit at Houston 9:30p.m., ESPN 
Charlotte at Indiana 7:00p.m., FSN 
NHL Atlanta at Philadelphia 7:00p.m., TSN 
NCAA 


Associated Press 

ATLANTA -The NCAA placed Georgia Teeh on two years of' probation Thursday for using 17 aea­demically ineligible ath­letes in four sports, includ­ing 11 in foolball. 
It is the first time Georgia Tech has been placed on probation. The school had proposed self­imposed sanctions, includ­ing one year on probation. 
Georgia Tech, which argued the violations were not intentional, is consid­ering an appnal of' the penalties. 
"We are disappointed by the ruling of' the NCAA Committee on Infractions," said Georgia Tech athletic director Dave Braine. "Yes, mistakes were made, but they were inadvertent and confined to a small num­ber of cases when you con­sider that we reviewed more than ROO tran­scripts." 
The NCAA's Committee on Infractions accepted the school's proposed scholar­ship reductions in football and men's and women's track. A violation also was found in the women's swimming program, but the swimmer involved was not on scholarship, so that program was not penal­ized with a scholarship reduclion. 
There were no TV or bowl restrictions placed on the foolball program. 
Georgia Tech already reduced its 2005 football signing class by six and also will reduce its 2006 signing class by six. 
The NCAA added a limit of 79 total grants-in-aid for the 2006-07 and 2007­OR aeademic years in foot­ball, down from the nor­mal limil of 85. Georgia Tech's self-imposed redue­tion of scholarships lhis year did not indude a cor­responding overall limit on scholarships. 
There are 83 scholarship players on this year's foot­ball team. 

Also, the NCAA vacated Tech's records in lhe sports between the 1998­99 and 2004-05 academic years and issued a public reprimand and censure. 
Gene Marsh, a law pro­fessor al Alabama who chaired the investigating committee, said Tech's registrars and academic advisers were inadequate­ly trained in NCAA regula­tions. 
Marsh said tho commit­tee condudod lhe "institu­tional failure" to train tho employees on NCAA ruins "constilules a non-dobat­able laek of' inslilulional conlrol." 
IN BRIEF 

~ixteen year old jockey dies 
m horse race GHOVE CITY, Ohio Josh Hadosevieh was born into the life of training and riding horses, so he didn't think of' himself' as young among jockeys when he started rac­ing professionally at 16. 
"That's always what his dream was -to ride, ride, ride," his grandmother, Jacqueline Hadosevich, said Thursday at the 40-horse farm south of Columbus run by Jake and Shelly Hadosevich, the boy's parents. 
On Wednesday, six weeks into his career, the jockey was killed when the horse he was aboard broke a leg and rolled over him during a raee at Beulah Park. 
Staff' at the track had known the younger Hadosevich since before he began hot-walking his father's hors­es on the backstretch. They say he was a surprisingly steady rider despite his lack of experience and gangly build of roughly 5-foot-7, 115-pounds, which earned him rib­bings in the jocks room. England leads at Golf World 
Cup in Portugal 
VILAMOUHA, Portugal -Just four days after beating Tiger Woods, David llowell teamed with Luke Donald for a 13-under 59 to give England a one-stroke lead aftor the first round of the World Cup. 
"Things can't go any better for me at the moment," said Howell, who beat Woods by three strokes Sunday to win the IISBC Champions tourna­ment in Shanghai, China. 
The defending champion and the favorite, England took advantage of calm conditions Thursday on Portugal's southern coast. And lhe English weren't alone, with half the 24 teams recording scorns of' 64 or lower at the 7,17 4-yard Arnold Palmer-designed Victoria Clube de Golfe. 
Tied for second after rounds of 60 were the Indian pair of .lyoti Handhawa and Arjun Atwal, and Australians Mark llnnsby and l'nlnr Lonard. Tho Wnlsh lnam of Bradlny Dredge and Slnphnn Dodd, and Swedon's llnnrik St(mson and Nidas Faslh hil 61 s. Pirates sign Bay to S18.25 
million, 4 year contract 
PITTSBUHGII -For a player who doesn't show m ueh emolion on the field, Pittsburgh l'iratos outfinldnr Jason Bay almost displayed a rarnly seen side of' himsnlf af'tnr signing a eontracllhat sets him up for life. 
lie nearly cried -an undersland­able senliment for a 22nd-round draft choice who went through four organizations beforn becoming a major league rngular. 
Coming ofT two of' thn besl earner­starting seasons in Pirates history, Bay agrm~d Thursday to an $18.25 million, !'our-year contract lhat eov­ers his arbitration-eligible seasons. 
"I just carne from a wedding for one my best l'rinnds, and I startt~d to cry and get all emolional like you do at weddings," Bay said. 
Friday, November 18, 2005 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles look to kick off season with a tournament victory 
Bender hopes team can improve on rebounding and intensity in two games at the Hanover Tip-Off Classic 
By TIM KAISER Spons Writer 

After a two-game exhibition schedule, Saint Mary's will kick ofT its regular season this week­end at the Hanover Tip-Off Classic in Hanover. Ind. 
The Belles will play Hanover tonight at 6 p.m. and then face Franklin at 1 p.m. tomorrow afternoon. 
First-year coach Steve Bender's team has a lot of new faces this season, with only five returning players on the roster of 13. 
Bender comes from coaching basketball and tennis at Buchanan High School in Buchanan, Mich. He led the boys' tennis team at Buchanan High to the 2003 Michigan state champi­onship and will continue to coach the team this year. The Belles hope that he can parlay his con­siderable coaching success at Buchanan into a winning season for Saint Mary's. 
Saint Mary's takes on two new seniors in Shelly Bender and Nicole Tucker, as well as five freshmen in Nicole Beier, Meghan Conaty, Calli Davison, Emily Light, Erin Newsom and Katie Rashid. Bender is pleased with both his veteran players as well as the incoming ones, and the team looks to be deeper than it has been in a while. 
"We have a lot of depth, which is key. But we also have great leadership from our two cap­tains," Bender said in an inter­view earlier this season. "Our athleticism, and the depth that we have, will help us extend pressure on teams throughout the game." 
Saint Mary's is ranked No. 7 in the MIAA pre-season coaches' poll after an 11-15 overall record and a 6-10 MIAA record last sea­son. The Belles are led this year by captains Bridget Boyce and Bridget Lipke. Boyce, a senior, was a second-team all-MIAA selection last season while aver­aging 12 points a game and starting every game at guard. The junior Lipke earned an MIAA honorable mention selec­tion last season, and letl the team with 86 assists last season from the other guard spot while play­ing a team-high 860 minutes. 

The Belles also return sopho­more standout Allison Kessler, who averaged 8.3 points a game while sophomore and junior Bernadette and Stephanie Broderick will come back this season to help the Belles. 
Bender realizes his new team has some work to do and this weekend's tournament will not be easy. 
"We've got to get a lot more physical on the boards." Bender said after last Friday's scrim­mage against Lake Michigan College. "We've got to develop more of a post presence, and pick up our intensity. Hanover and Franklin are going to come at us tough." 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu 


Friday, November 18, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NHL 
St. Louis tallies winning goal in first game back 

AP Robert Nilsson, right, and Mark Parrish celebrate Nilsson's goal during the _first period In Tampa Bay Thursday night. 

21 Years ... and still abiding. Keep on. From, Your Fellow Dude and MB 
Lindros' goal and assist give Toronto its third straight win 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -Martin St. Louis' surprise return gave the Tampa Bay Lightning a much needed lift. 
St. Louis scored a tiebreaking, rebound goal with 1:43 left, leading the Lightning past the New York Islanders 3-2 on Thursday night. 
St. Louis was back in the line­up less than a week after break­ing a b<me near the tip of his left ring finger. It was first thought that St. Louis, who sat out two games, would miss two­to-four weeks. The 2004 NHL MVP also damaged his nail bed after being hit in the hand by defenseman Darryl Sydor's shot in practice last Sunday. 
"It was completely unexpected ... nobody knew," said Tampa Bay's John Grahame, who made 34 saves. "But that's the type of player he is. He's got the biggest heart of anybody in the league, probably. Just having his pres­ence out there really helped us." 
St. Louis scored from in-close after Vincent Lecavalier, who lost his stick, kicked a loose puck toward the goal. The sequen<;e started on Pavel Kubina's shot from the point. 
"It definitely feels good," St. Louis said. "It's a great play by Vinny. I just happened to be at the right place at the right time ... and I'll take those." 
St. Louis said his hand felt a little uncomfortable. 
"I think I'll be playing with that for a little while," St. Louis said. "It's just getting used to it." 
New York goalie Hick DiPietro stopped 28 shots, but no chance on St. Louis' winner. 
"The puck's going way over the net," DiPietro said. "It catches Vinny in the back and then it just falls right to his feet. You've got to give them credit. They worked hard. They were in the right spot, but that's a tough one for us to drop." 
The defending Stanley Cup champion Lightning have won two of three after a six-game losing streak. 
"You can just sense it's going to be a year that's a dog fight every game," Tampa Bay coach John Tortorella said. "We have to realize that, buckle in and get ready for the ride here as far as each and every night." 
Alexei Yashin had a goal and an assist for the Islanders, who had won a season-best three straight. He got New York even at 2 after picking up a loose puck and scoring from the right circle 57 seconds into the third. 
"We gave away a point," Islanders coach Steve Stirling said. "That's a disappointment we got beat. Played hard, played against a good team and played pretty well for 57, 58 minutes but it's not enough." 
Hobert Nilsson put New York ahead 1-0 at 5:35 of the first. He scored from the right circle off a nifty backhand pass by Yashin. 
The Lightning tied it at 1 on Huslan Fedotenko's goal with 
1:28 left in the first. Fedotenko scored off a pass from behind the net by Vinny Prospal. 
Brad Hichards gave Tampa Bay a 2-1 lead on a second­period goal at 11:49. 
Maple Leafs 4, Bruins 1 
Toronto turned to its power play and backup goaltender to beat Boston. 
Eric Lindros had a goal and an assist, and Mikael Tellqvist made 31 saves to lift the Maple Leafs to a victory over the Bruins on Thursday night. 
"He (Tellqvist( was focused all day," Lindros said. "lie faced a lot of shots in the first period, but we have a lot of confidence in him." 
Toronto has won three straight for the first time this season and scored two power­play goals. The Maple Leafs began the night with the top power-play unit in the Nlll .. 
"Our power plays have worked because of our quick­ness," Maple Leafs coach Pat Quinn said. "We work on mov­ing quicker as well as moving the puck quicker." 
Lindros and Mats Sundin broke open a 1-1 game in the third period when they scored two minutes apart. Darcy Tucker made it 4-1 with 5:27 left. 
"The third period was our best period of the year," Sundin said. "We kept it simple and played smarter without the puck." 
Boston (7-S-5) lost its fourth straight and !'ell to 1-7-1 against its Northeast Division rivals. The Bruins were booed for the final live minutes. 
"If I knew what was wrong, we would have won the last six," Bruins goalie Andrew Haycroft said. 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CHORALE 
& 

CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR 

9:00p.m. • Friday, November 18, 2005 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 
\~#)' 

TICKETS $10/$8/$6/$3
CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS PHON!' 574-631-2800 DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC 
' 
-

-----------------------------------------------------------, page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, November 18, 2005 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

No. 18 Notre Dame will host St. Bonaventure 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 

Notre Dame hosts its first home meet in almost a month Saturday when St. Bonaventure comes to South Bend. 
A recent road trip was good to the Irish, who return home with two close wins over Pittsburgh and Michigan State. The team improved its overall record to 3-1 and a No. 18 national ranking. Despite its success on the road, the team is excited to be competing in South Bend. 
"We're glad to be home." Irish coach Tim Welsh. "We like our pool and we are happy to be racing here again." 
"It's nice not having to endure the long bus rides for the away meets," Notre Dame captain Patrick Hefernan said. "Everyone swims better at home." 
The Irish welcome one of their oldest foes in St. Bonaventure. The two teams have met a total of 39 times, the most of any opponent on the current !fish schedule. Notre Dame has dominated the series (28-1 0) to this point, and won last season's mee 150-87. 
The Bonnies come in fresh off a big victory over LaSalle last weekend, boosting their record to 2-1. Their only loss in a dual meet this season came to Pittsburgh. 
St. Bonaventure's last victory over Notre Dame came in 2003, a loss that still irks the Irish. 
"We didn't swim well at all on our last trip [to St. Bonaventure]. We earned the loss," Welsh said. 
The coaching staff knows that after two close wins in Notre Dame's last two meets it would be foolish to look past the Bonnies. 
All members of the team have also made sure that they are focused on this weekend's meet and will be ready to go Saturday. 
"This is one more chance to race before a lot of us will be resting up, and we will be ready to go," Hefernan said. 

The Irish are hoping for a good homecoming to set them up for the much-anticipated Notre Dame Invitational. The program's signature event begins Qec. 1 and is the next competition following St. Bonnie's. 
"A lot of guys preparing for the Invite want to know where they are at this point," Welsh said. "This meet will be a good checkpoint to see how much they have improved." 
The team has been working hard this past week on getting a stronger push off the wall and maximizing the time 
underwater before its first strokes. 
The swimmers should be able to get a little extra experi­ence with this meet's 16-event format. Most collegiate meets only have 12 races, the four additional contests will give the Irish an opportunity to work on things they do not use on a regular basis. 
This Saturday will mark the last meet of the fall semester and with a win Notre Dame can move to 4-1 on the season, putting it in good position for the string of tournaments com­ing during the winter months. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish open season at home against Lafayette College 
Rebuilding team will  Zeller played against shoot­ing four-men in the exhibi­ worked out for half of Thursday's practice but was  not on the floor. "This past year in senior  field. Notre Dame improved the  
look to make statement  tions and had to run the floor and step out on them.  not 100 percent. "He's got to  see  some  year I had to bring the ball up a little bit so it's a little  next week against Quincy -especially on the offensive  
We want to  do what  we  do  increases  in  similar but it's  end-as the Irish shot 55.9  
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Assosciate Sports Editor  and make them react a lit­tle bit." Notre Dame knows what it  workload," Brey said. The Irish will  "We'll play the rotation we want  a whole differ­ent level," Ayers said. "So it has  percent. Quinn led the Irish against Quincy with 20 points on 7­ 
Irish coach Mike Brey said the only goal for this year's basketball team is to make  has on offense when every­thing is clicking. It is harl­dling a Lafayette team that  look for fresh­man Ryan Ayers to play behind  to play and won't react to them."  kind of raised the intensity." The Irish  of-13 from the field. Co­captain Torin Francis added 16  
the  Big East tournament,  has changed  over  the last  senior co-cap­ started out  the  points  on  7-of-7  from  the  
and that quest will begin Sunday when Notre Dame hosts Lafayette College at  season and that might pres­ent defensive problems. "Lafayette has gone from  tain Chris Quinn if McAlarney does not play.  Mike Brey Irish coach  preseason slow, struggling to gain offensive  field with seven rebounds and three blocks in the win. The Irish and Leopards  
the  Joyce  Center  in  the  having two  big kids pound­ Ayers is  a  long  rhythm in their  will tip off Sunday after­ 
team's first  game  of the  ing the ball inside to having  6-foot-8 forward who has  first game against Lewis  noon at 2 p.m.  
season.  younger bigs and spreading  experience  hand ling  the  University. Notre Dame won  
Brey has a lot of options as far as playing people in  it out and shooting a lot of threes," Brey said. "They  point and has been used in different sets when Quinn is  the game 59-40 but shot just 35.6 percent from the  Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu  

different spots, but the Irish kind of spread it out and coach plans on sticking to a like to run, so we have to specific game plan and forc­play transition defense. We ing his opponent to play have to get back." accordingly. The Irish may be without 
"We'll play the rotation freshman point guard Kyle we want to play and won't McAlarney, who has been react to them," Brey said. sidelined with a back injury. "(Rob] Kurz and [Luke] Brey said McAlarney 
FINAL DAY-DON'T MISS THIS OPPORTUNITY 

NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick fleece coat is perfect for winter. Ask any yak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 
~ 


DUTPDST Hours: Mon. -Fri.: 10:00 om -9:00pm
~ 

Sot.: 1o:oo om -B:oo pm Cold Weather Experts Sun.: 12:00 pm -6:oopm 

19o6DOM£2oo6 
YEARBOOK 
A C~/1/t:~ry C1_f JlAe#UJrie£ 
Historic yearbook Display 
10 a.m.-Noon Saturday Dooley Room, LaFortune 


Friday, November 18, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Hockey 
continued from page 28 
CCI lA victories also snapped a nineteen game confenmee win­loss stmak li1r the Irish. 
Babin said winning early under first ynar head coach Jnl'f Jaekson has improved morale at a program that hadn't won a ganw sinen .Jan. 2 eoming into tlw snason. 
"!The swm1pl was huge," Babin said. "We really needed confi­denen in ourselvns as a group of people. We showed everyone in the league that there's something here." 
Babin was awarded CCHA Del(mseman of the Week honors this week after recording three assists in the two games against the Falcons. 
After a 2004-05 season in whieh tht1y struggled to find the net, the Irish have bmm explosive on oll'ense this season. Over the last four games they're averag­ing 5.0 goals per game. 
Last season, Wes O'Neill and Josh Sciba led the team with six goals each. This year, Sciba has six goals in only eight games and Matt Amado and Tim Wallace both already have five. 
Overall, the Irish have com­piled a record of 3-5-0 this sea­son. However, four of those loss­es have come to No. 1 Michigan, No. 3 Colorado College and No. 13 Denver. 
Jackson has rotated freshman Jordan Pearce and junior Dave Brown between the pipes so far this season. Both have played well in spurts. Pearce was given two straight starts last week, but Brown started the 4-2 victory over Bowling Green Friday and shut out the Falcons for two peri­ods. 
Jackson said after Saturday's game that the reason Pearco started Thursday was that he has a light academic schedule on Thursdays and Brown has few classes on Fridays. 
The Redhawks, who will be playing only their second home game of the season, come into the contest 6-2-0 overall and 5­1-0 in the CCHA. They lost to North Dakota to begin the sea­son, but then won six straight before falling 3-2 to Lake Superior State Saturday. 
Notre Dame and Miami will meet again lator this season Jan. 13-14 at the Joyce Center. 
This weekend's games are botJ1 schoduled to faee oil' at 7:35p.m. 
Notes: 
+ Jackson signed right wingt~r Christian Minella to the 2005 recruiting elass Thursday. Minella will join the Irish, along with early signees Kevin Dnnth, Kyle Lawson, and Hyan Thang, for the 2006-07 season. 
"We are pleased to add a play­er like Christian Minella to thn Notre Dame hockoy program," Jaekson said. "lie brings size and spend to our roster." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Tough crovvd avvaits Irish at tournan1ent 
Minnesota features three-way scoring 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
Thn Notre Dame women's swimming and diving team did not have long to enjoy its win over Minnnsota last wnek. That same Minnesota tnam, along with several others. will bn 11ager to prove that thny are a supe­rior team to the Irish when t.lw teams gather this wnek­nnd for the three-day Minnesota Invitational. 
Unlike a rngular meet, in which two teams compete against eaeh otlwr for only onn day, thn Minnesota Invitational will involve multiple teams that will eom pnte against each other 
FYI 
this Friday, Saturday and Sunday. 
The Irish enter this week­end's meet confidently, as they have won two consecu­tive meets over Pittsburgh and Minnesota. The team seems to be gaining momentum as more and more swimmers are elevat­ing their level or perform­ance. While Katie Carroll has bnen the standout per­former on the team so far, Jessica Stephens, Julia Quinn and Hebecca Grove all won multiple events for Notre Dame in the meet against Minnesota. This bodes well for the Irish, as they will need an entire team effort to attain the desirnd results this week­end. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at gar­bogas@nd.edu 
MEN'S CROSS-COUNTRY 
Runners travel to the Bronx 
Seven Irish athletes to compete in IC4A 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
While the top seven runners on the Notre Dame men's cross country team focus on the NCAA Championships on Monday, some other members of the team have their own season­ending meet to get ready for. 
A team of seven Irish runners will travel to The Bronx, N.Y. this weekend for the Intercollegiate Association of Amateur Athletes of America (IC4A) Championships. 
Brett Adams, A.J. Andrassy, Dan Bradley, James Miller, Mark Moore, John Popejoy and Jake Watson have all seen limit­ed race time this season. Notre Dame coach Joe Piane said the meet is an opportunity for them to have a goal later in the sea­son when meet fields narrow 
while you were out 



UNIVERSITY 
*itt ~~%00 . ·m a . mw1 :®-'%t:mm mm..w·m~ 
OUTFITTERSCM 
. the campus store off ca.mptJsm 
located in the Martin's Supermarket Plaza 1 block east of Turtle Creek Apartments 
243-4197 

and the top seven becomes very hard to break into. 
"It's an opportunity for seven more guys to train and have a goal as opposed to saying well, we're just going to train," Piano said. 
The veteran coach said with­out the IC4As, many members of the team would have had lit­tle motivation to work hard after the Sept. 30 Notre Dame Invitational. 
"If you're the 14th guy, you know pretty well you're not going to the Pre-National meet LOct. 151 and your season ended on the first of October," Piane said. 
The IC4A is the oldest athletic eonference in the nation. It con­tains almost every east coast school that eompetes in Division 1 athletics. It invites all its members to its Championships but usually the only teams that accept are those who did not qualify for the NCAA Championships. 
"It's usually a very good meet. 
..As. You Wish.. ' ' 
Imports,.~; 
Loads of Silver & Beaded Jewelry, Tapestry Wall Hangings, Hand Crafted Gift Items, Accessories, and Much Morel! 
Everyone on the East Coast will be there, less the teams that qualifind for the NCAAs," Piano said. "It's the oldest conference in the eountry. You might even call it the 'NIT' of cross coun­try." 
The Irish arn unique in send­ing a team of runners to both the IC4As and NCAAs. 
"I use it as a way to keep guys more involved," Pi1t11e said. "We're not going out thern just to go to dinner. I expeet a good performance out of them." 
The top seven Irish runners will compete for the NCAA Ch~mpionship in Terre llautn. Ind. Monday. 
Piano said he will bn in Nnw York for the IC4As thnn will fly baek to Indiana for the NCMs. The runners eompnting for the national championship will trav­el to Terre llaute Friday and work out on the coursn over the weekend. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
When Hurricane Stan devastated the Guatemalan village where we work, we pledged at least $2000 toward the relief effort. Please come visit, and maybe even help us surpass our goal! 
DIRECT IMPORTSILOW PRICESI IIIQIE CHRISTMAS Glml 
Guatemala • Bolivia • Peru • Mexico • Thailand • India laFortune-Sorin Room (1" Fl.) 
Proceeds !rom sales of jewelry guarantee the loving

Nov. 28-Dec 3 (Sat.) 11-5pm 
hands o1 Guatemalan families J Urnes their average

&M-T-W Evenings 7:30-10pm salary, as well as funds lor their education 


!IC)Ur 

birthda~? 
WE CAN HELP! 
IRISH GARDENS 631-4004 
-
-


page 22 Friday, November 18, 2005
The Observer+ SPORTS 

don't think you start to get nation, began in 2001 after tandem, totaling 134 points in about reaching 130 points," conservative at this point," the Missouri Athletic Club and 23 games -67 points apiece. Hanks said. "I guess we're just
Yale 

just taking it one "Every night before hors d' oeuvres and cocktails. Hire your
game at a time," approach we've senior forward game day now, I taken -every 
musician and florist. Orjustgather ideas. 
Katie Thorlakson can hardly sleep game is the said. "This week national champi-. 
is Yale, Last week because it could be onship." Everything you need for your big day. 
continued from page 28 
lot of people are underesti­mating. And I think they are looking forward to proving everyone wrong." 
The Bulldogs are one of just three unseeded teams left in the tournament, and Irish coach Randy Waldrum said he expects a tough game from a well-coached squad. 
"Rudy Meredith is a great coach," Waldrum said of Yale's 11th-year skip­

per. "They'll be just rather than personal individ­
"There's no way we 
very organized. faith in our coach ward Kerri Hanks. ual achievements. They'll be very should be not in giving us what Thorlakson and Hanks are "Between me and Katie, we prepared." confident coming to play and how the nation's leading scoring haven't even said anything 
Waldrum said to play," she said.
into this game. 
he expects Yale's "We're not over­confidence from confident ... but
We've done well its game against this whole season, we are confident. Duke to carry There's no way
so we should do 
over into we should be not
well now." 
tonight's match, confident coming especially into this game. because the We've done well
Kerri Hanks 
Bulldogs are used this whole sea­
Irish forward 
to playing as underdogs. 
"I think they're just .kind of on a roll ... in the tournament, and [they] did some things that they were probably the only ones that expected to do that," he said. "I think we've got to be really ready to play on Friday." 
While Duke may have over­looked the Bulldogs and focused on a potential matchup with the Irish a bit too early, Notre Dame's play­ers said they have concentrat­ed only on Yale throughout the week. 
"Our focus is 

was -I don't my last game." Free busses for even remember students attend­who it was it's so ing tonight's
Katie Thorlakson 
far away." game will be run­November 20, 2005
Irish forward 
Freshman standout Kerri Hanks said the whole team feels a sense of responsibility each game dur­ing the tournament to win for the seniors. 
"We go out, and I'm like, 'This could be the last game that I'm going to play with the seniors, so this is their cham­pionship game,"' Hanks said. "So we just take it game by game and hopefully we can continue and make it to the Final Four." 
Waldrum said he sees that attitude in all the underclass­men. 
"All the players will tell you they want to win again for their senior group," he said. 
Thorlakson said she under­stands the gravity of playing in do-or-die games as a senior. 
"Every night before game day now, I can hardly sleep because it could be my last game," she said. "And I'm like, 'I don't want it to be my last game.' So I don't think that feeling is going to go away." 
But she knows she will only have a negative feeling if her career ends on a loss. So for now, Thorlakson said she wants to do all she can to win.

-
"I wouldn't say I was confi­dent, I'm just trying to go out there and play as hard as I can," she said. 
Waldrum said Thorlakson and Notre Dame's other for­wards will have to continue their relentless attack if the Irish hope to beat Yale. 
"I think you've got to go at it with that same approach -I 

Waldrum said. "And the way Herman Trophy merged their The duo broke its preseason 
we've been playing defensive­player-of­ly, if we keep that part going, I the-year just feel confident with our presenta­group that we're going to get tion. our chances ... We've got to N o t r e convert those opportunities, Dame's four but we'll go all out again." finalists are 
Hanks said the forwards are senior for­ready to execute Waldrum's ward Katie game plan to help the Irish to Thorlakson, a victory. senior 
"It's going to be a good defender game, and all that we can Candace expect is to believe in what we Chapman, 
know how to do junior midfielder Jen upcoming game against Yale and have Buczkowski and freshman for­
son, so we should 
do well now." 
In Thorlakson and Notre Dame's seven other seniors, Hanks' hope is magnified. 
Thorlakson said her main goal is to end her career with a win. 
"I hope we·can take it to the national championship and it won't be my last game until I hold the trophy up," she said. 
But the Irish must win tonight to have dreams about a national championship. 

~1M for a stylish afternoon. 
"I don't think we can be looking past anything beyond 

this," Waldrum 
· Preview the latest in hridalwear. Enjoy 
said. "And that's kind of the 
ning to and from 

Alumni Field, 12 p.m. -5p.m.
library circle, the Grotto and McKenna Hall from 

Palais Royale Ballroom
4 p.m. to 9 p.m. 

105 W. Colfax, South Bend
Notes: 
+ Four Notre Dame players were named Missouri Athletic Club Herman Trophy semifi­nalists Thursday. 
The award, given annually to the top soccer player in the goal of 130 points Sunday

"/ don't think we can be 
during Notre
looking past anything 
Dame's sec­beyond this. And that's ond-round victory over
kind ofthe appraoch we've 
Michigan
taken -everything is the 
State in the national championship." N C A A Tournament. Hanks said
Randy Waldrum 
she was
Irish coach 
focused on the team's 
looking at Friday's game hop­ing maybe we can get some more." 
Last season, Thorlakson was one of 15 semifinalists but did not make the final cut of three. Despite leading the Irish Ito the national champi­onship and taking home three player-of-the-year awards from soccer publications, the forward was not included in the final ballot. 
Each NCAA Division I coach gets a ballot, and Thorlakson is one of the favorites heading into the vote. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 


Tickets: $5 in advance $10 at the door To order call: 
574-235-9190 

Take the Fast Track to Learn 
PORTUGUESE 
Intensive Beginning Portuguese I 
ROPO 10115 
Brazilian Film and Popular Music 
ROPO/LLRO 40560 -Offered in English 
SPRING 2006 
Department of Romance Languages & Literatures Portuguese & Brazilian Studies 
Friday, November 18, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 

MATIHEW SMEDBERGffhe Observer Mldflelder Alex Yoshlnaga works for ball control during Notre Dame's 4-2 penalty kick win over Syracuse on Nov. 12. The win came In the first round of the Big East Tournament, the last game the Irish played at Alumni Field. 
WIN ALEGEND EAGLE ONE 

Holy Cross &St. Stanislaus Parish 
will be raffling this beautiful red, 
Harley Davidson Powerd 
Legend Eagle One 

Only 3000 tickets will be sold. 
$20 per ticket 
All proceeds go to benefit the Renaissance Campaign to build along-awaited Gym and Social Center and to create astate of the art library, media center and art department for the students of Holy Cross School. Send your ticket infonnation to: Holy Cross, 920 N. Wilber St., South Bend, IN 46628 For more information call 574.233.2179 Be sure to include your name, address and phone number. Drawing will be May 26, 2006 or before if all tickets are sold earlier. Indiana License# 10656':1 
SYMPHONIC WINDS AND CONCERT BANDS 
Svll'/'lwnic WimJ,; tOOtlllucterll>y Kermetlr D!N 11ml :\fall Merlt'tl Concert Dnml~ cc,,uJucted b.ll Emmell ()'Lean; and Samuel Smu:Jutz. 
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2005 3:00PM Leighton Concert Hall 
~ 

UNIVERSITY OP NOTRE DAME DEJ'.o\RTMENT OP Ml!SIC 

NCAA 
continued from page 28 
the team to the tournament every ynar sinee eoming to South Bend. 
Western Illinois ((J-IJ-4) is one of only two squads (Stetson is tlw other) in the 4H-team tournament with a losing rneord. The Leatherrweks qualified for the tournanwnt by winning the Mid­Continent Conference tourna­mnnt. Western Illinois edged Oakland 4-3 in overtime in the conlimmen dmmpionship match. 
Despite the poor rneonl, Clark expeeLo.; a still' challenge from the l.natherneeks. 
"They must b«~ the best 6-9 team in the country," Clark said. "I spoke to snvnrai eoaehes that have played them. I've heard they are a very good team with somn very good players." 
Clark said that the momentum Western Illinois built up in its conference tournament makes the Leathernecks a very danger­ous team. 
"Early in the season they lost some close games," the eoach said. "They're going to eome in very confident." 
The Leathernecks are in the NCAA tournament for the seeond eonsecutive season, after captur­ing the Mid-Continent Conferene«~ title in 2004. 
Notre Dame is coming off an up-and-down regular snason. The Irish finished the regular season outside of the NCAA top 25 for the first time in Clark's tenure. 
llowever, Clark attributes Notre Dame's ineonsistencies to a chal­lenging sehedule. A reeord seven Big East teams made tlw NCAA tournament. The Irish also played several top out of eoniP.r­ence teams, including Indiana. The Hoosiers, who beat th«~ Irish 3-0 in Bloomington Oct. 26, will host the winner of Friday's game on Tuesday in the second round. 
The Irish havn the benefit of hosting a first round ganH~. but Clark hopes his players do not put too much stoek in their homo field advantage. 
"The home field is always an advantage, but it's what we do on the home field that's going to be mom important," Clark said. "At the end of the day, the home lield doesn't win it for you. We've got to take care of that. The players themselves have got to take earn of that." 
Clark is optimistic, hownvPr, because of the improvement he has snen from his team over thn season. The coaeh thinks the Irish have the talent to make a run in the tournament. 
"This tnam has gotten better every week," Clark said. "We're now looking as good as any team that I've over coadwd at Notre Dame. 
"This tnam is looking very good." 
Notes: 
+ 
.Junior tri-eaptain Crng Dalby was namnd onn of 15 snmi­linalists Tuesday for the presti­gious IIermann Trophy. The award is given nad1 ynar to the top playnr in Division I soecnr. 

Dalby, who has played as a midliclder and defendnr for the Irish in 2005, is only tho third player in program history to be namnd a semifinalist. Last sea­son, defenders Knvin Goldthwaitn and .Jack Stnwart both madn the semifinalist list for the trophy. 

+ 
For thosn wanting to nscape the ehilly walk t.o this al'tnrnoon's ganw, bussns will be shuttling students in a loop from Library Cirde, the Crotto and MeKenna Hall to Alumni Finlcl bntwnnn 4 p.m. and IJ p.m. 


Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 
page 24 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 18, 2005 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 
HEADT
Record: 7-2 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
NOTRE DAME 2005 Schedule 
Sept. 3 at Pittsburgh -W Sept. 10 at Michigan -W Sept. 17 MICHIGAN ST. -L Sept. 24 at Washington -W Oct. 1 -W 
-L Oct. Nov. 5 TENNESSEE -W Nov.12 NAVY-W Nov.19 SYRACUSE Nov. 26 at Stanford 

CharlieWeis head coach 
No. 1 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 23 24 25 26 26 27 27 28 29 30 31 32 32 33 
34 
35 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 
44 
45 45 46 47 48 49 
so 
52 53 54 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 66 68 69 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 96 98 99 

AP: 6 Coaches: 7 
Charlie Weis first season at Notre Dame career record: 
7-2 
at Notre Dame: 
7-2 
against Syracuse: 0-0 


COACHING QUARTERBACKS 
Brady Quinn is winding first season as head coach 
Charlie Weis is in his down his third and fmest
L&.l 

season under center forat Notre Dame-his only 
:!: 

the Irish. He has tossed 27 touchdowns compared to collegiate or professional
c( 

head coaching job. He has been successful so far for 
0 

only five interceptions for
L&.l 

a total of 2,931 yards. He'sthe Irish, taking a team
a::: 
.... 

on pace to hold nearly
that went 6-6 in 2004 to
0 

every major passing7-2 and the verge of a
z 

record in school history by two more wins. 
BCS bowl if it can secure the time he graduates. 
Greg Robinson is in his 
Perry Patterson and Joe first year as a head 
Fields have both played coach. Robinson spent 14 

substantially for the seasons in the NFL 
Orange this season. before joining the Texas 
Patterson has taken the staff in 2004 as the 
majority of snaps and Longhorns' co-defensive 
started seven games while coordinator. He replaced 
Fields has started twice. Paul Pasqualoni as the 
Patterson has four TDs Orange head coach in 
through the air compared January of 2005. 
to eight interceptions. 

Syracuse does not have similar NFL backgr~s 
Weis and Robinson have 
one clear starter as and only a combinedeight 

Robinson says 0~"~
b, 
Patterson and E.i~Jds,. •' between them. Ho .. er, 
wins at the coJJ~gm ' ... 
play. Meanwhile, Qu¢ ·~· Weis has adapted be~r to 
has a firm control over his new job. BothweF$W.atii 
his :position and Jpe:;., playcallers, but Weis' anilitY 
team. He will look to pad·7 to make Notr~ Dame··~ 
his big statistics. and lead··· above its potential give~(him 
Notre Dame to an~iJ;y 
. co~-4 D :o;:.kf!f•:.•
the edge .. ::r '1f':.,.. <: 
wm on;~.w:or ay. """"''''' 



The last time Notre Dame met Syracuse, the The Irish send the seniors out the right way on Orange thoroughly embarassed the Irish. It's pay­Saturday, dominating the Orange and getting back time for the Irish seniors, who are only two revenge for 2003. Syracuse has won just one game wins away from going to the biggest bowl game for a reason and the Irish have won seven games of their careers. Even ifSyracuse can score a few for a reason. Notre Dame's multi-dimensional touchdowns, it won't be able to keep up with offense will be the demise of the Orange. Every Quinn and the Irish receivers, who will put up big senior will play on Saturday and the Irish will be numbers on the lowly Orange. one step closer to a bowl. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 53 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31 Syracuse 7 Syracuse 10 

Roster 

Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR D.j.Hord WR 6-1 198 FR Darius Walker RB 5-11 200 so Anthonr,_Vema~ia DB 6-3 221 so 
Rhema cKnig t WR 6-1 215 SR Ray Herring DB 6-0 199 FR Darrin Bragg WR 6-1 192 so Junior Jabbie RB 6-0 188 so Tom Zbikowski DB 5-11 203 JR Brady Quinn QB 6-4 231 JR David Grimes WR 6-0 170 FR Marty Mooney QB 6-2 207 SR 
QB 6-2 207 FR~~~~1~x:r QB 6-2 196 so Leo Ferrine DB 6-0 186 so Rashon Powers-Neal RB 6-3 238 SR Geoffrey Price p 6-3 186 JR Dan Gorski QB 6-3 196 FR Chinedum Ndukwe DB 6-2 219 JR 
D.j. 
Fitzpatrick K/P 6-2 206 SR Terrail Lambert DB 5-11 188 so Maurice Stovall WR 6-5 222 SR Ambrose Wooden CB 5-11 197 JR Chase Anastasio WR 6-2 203 JR 

W. 
David Williams DB 5-10 170 so Brandon Erickson WR 6-0 178 so Nate Schiccatano DL 6-2 237 SR Wade lams DB 5-9 188 so Travis Thomas RB 6-0 215 JR David Bruton DB 6-2 187 FR John Lyons RB 6-1 205 JR Kyle McCarthy DB 6-0 189 FR 


DB 5-9 190 JR
~i~~o~c~:1Js~~on DB 5-11 193 SR Jake Carney DB 6-0 187 SR Jeff Jenkins RB 6-0 232 SR Alvin Reynolds Jr. DB 5-10 180 so Justin Hoskins RB 5-10 186 so Tommie Lee DB 6-2 200 JR Ash!:!. McConnell RB 6-0 247 JR Tim enney DB 6-0 180 JR Brandon Harris DB 6-0 198 SR Matt Mitchell DB 5-8 187 SR Nick Possley WR 6-1 183 so Brandon Hoytr LB 6-0 236 SR Maurice Crum, Jr. LB 6-0 220 so Scott Smith LB 6-3 234 FR Kevin Washington LB 6-1 231 FR Anthon?; Salvador LB 6-2 233 SR Asar,h chwapp RB 6-0 250 FR Car Gioia K 5-10 183 JR Rich Whitney DB 6-2 213 JR 
LB 6-1 234 SR ~~~~e~~omas LB 6-3 240 JR Steve Quinn LB 6-2 220 JR Matt Augustyn FB 6-3 220 JR Dan Santucci OL 6-4 290 SR joe Brockington LB 6-1 212 JR Joseph Boland LB 6-2 242 SR David Fitzgerald OL 6-4 293 SR Nick Borseti LB 6-4 238 JR 
DL 6-2 252 JR
~~~r~~dahenson 

LB 6-1 220 so james Bent OL 6-2 265 SR Casey Cullen DL 6-1 238 JR ).). jansen LS 6-3 242 so Scott Raridon OL 6-7 304 SR Jeff lisak OL 6-3 305 FR Derek Landri DL 6-3 263 SR ~an Harris OL 6-5 288 JR 
eiiKennedh DL 5-11 260 SR 
James BoneI i OL 6-5 280 SR Paul Duncan OL 6-7 292 FR Mark LeVoir OL 6-7 311 SR Dan Stevenson OL 6-6 292 SR Chris Frome DL 6-5 268 SR Bob Morton OL 6-4 292 SR Michae~ Turkovich OL 6-6 290 FR john Sullivan OL 6-4 298 JR Brian Mattes OL 6-6 285 SR Rob Woods WR 6-2 208 SR Matt Shelton WR 6-0 172 SR jeff Samardzija WR 6-5 216 JR Michael O'Hara WR 5-10 180 SR 
TE 6-4 253 FR
l:~ef:¥~:~co TE 6-5 245 so Marcus Freeman TE 6-3 245 SR Anthony Fasano TE 6-5 255 SR John Carlson TE • 6-5 255 SR Brian Beidatsch DL 6-3 294 SR Craig Cardillo K 6-Q 174 JR Derrell Hand DL 6-3 301 FR Dan Chervanick DL 6-1 259 SR justin Brown DL 6-3 247 so Victor Abiamiri DL 6-4 260 JR Bobby Renkes K 6-0 195 J\{ Pat Kuntz DL 6-2 267 FR Trevor laws DL 6-1 293 JR Ronald Talley DL 6-4 261 so 
Irish experts 

IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
Darius Walker ran for at 
Jeff Samardzija and 

least 100 yards in the first 
Maurice Stovall have been 

four games of 2005. He 
steady receivers for Quinn 

then hit a slump before 
this season, combining for 

busting loose for 118 yards 
106 receptions, 21 TDs 

in a 42-21 win over Navy 
and 1,715 yards. Anthony 

last week. Tackle Mark 
Fasano has 40 catches and 
two touchdowns at tight

LeVoir and guard Dan 
Stevenson have combined 
end and Walker has 

for 65 starts in their Notre 
proven a capable receiver 
with 28 catches in 2005. 
Dame careers. 
Syracuse has only

The Orange are giving 
given up eight scores

up 4.3 yards per carry 
through the air in 2005.

this season. Opponents 
The Orange are led by

have converted 87 first 
free safety Anthony

downs on the ground and 
Smith, who has six INTs

rushed for 1,898 yards 
and seven pass breakups.

through nine games. 
They give up an average

Linebacker Kelvin Smith 
of 12 yards per reception

leads Syracuse in tackles 
and 163.2 yards per

with 69, including 5.5 for 
game.
a loss. 

Syracuse's rushing 
One of the closer battles 
in the game should he

defense is one .of th,,e 
Quinn's arm against

strong points on a r"::"s 
Smith's knack for picking,

team. But LeVoir a11d 
Stevenson ari;""talel1t'ed 
off passes. But Smith ean ' 
only cover one player at a

and motivated enough to 
time and Stovall, Fasano

give Walker and Tr~vis 
Thomas room to run' on 
and Samardzija wilF 
spread the field to create

Saturday, and Asaph 
Schwapp will be tough to 
headachesfor the Orange 
defenAA:'";;! •·

stop Q.UJlle goal line, · ' 
Friday, November 18, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 25 
OHEAD 


Syracuse Orange 
CORNERBACK 73-f'olk• !.EFT TACKLE 
!11-RI••bard""' 20·LIIm!Jert
77·Sitnro~ 
LINEBACKER , _,9~Hoyte 

'"~'00 :) ~~-00 ~ 
,.., 

,~ 
l 
18-Ndukwc
~·::~ 
• 
27~Bruron 
"~' I 

· 9-Zbtkow•kl
~r.=

28-McCunhy 
) CORNERBACK 
~· 22-Woodcn
· · 15-Ferrinc
t..INEBACKER 
40-Cnam, Jr. .. 
4K-Quinn 
.:'' ·. 
NOTRE DAME 


ORANGE RusHING 
Delimsive taekles Derek Landri and Trnvor Laws have teamed l'or eight tackles l'or loss and dogged the interior of the linn all sew;on. Unnbacker Brandon lloytn has 70 stops entering his last home game while Mauricn Crum Jr. hiL'i 41 t.acklns as a sophomore. 
Thn Orange have limpnd their way to a 109.6 yards pnr game rushing average in 2005. Damien Hhodes ha'i s1wen touchdowns on the ~-,rround along with an average of 4.1 yards per carry. Kareem Jones is sncond to Hhodns with I 0 I total yards on the year. 
Weis was concerned last wnnk that tho Irish gave up too many long· nms ·to th•~ No. 2 rushing team in thn country in Navy. But Syracuse should not Lhroaten thn Irish like the Navy option did. Laws and Landri arc quicker then tlli1 OrangP. Jhwmen ana will stuff th£' middlo;i 
ORANGE PASSING 
Notre Dame defensive backs Ambrose Wooden and Mike Hichardson have played above expectations this se<L.'>on, combining for live interceptions. Safety Tom Zbikowski leads the Irish with five picks and has one sack while also breaking up four passes this Se!L<;On. 
Patterson has eomploted only 48.1 percent of his passes this season and thrown twice as many interceptions (eight) as touchdowns (four). Tim LanP leads Syracuse with only 24 receptions for one touchdown on the season. Fieldr.; ha<; completed nine pa<;ses and thme INTs. 
Notre Dame's secondary 
has been the toam!s 
biggest liability in 2005. 
However. Syracuse has 
four total passing 11)s thl<; 
season and will struggle in 
the windy, cold weather 
forecasted for Saturday. 
Zbikowski will be ready to return an tNT ti)fo a touch­down. 
DEFENSE 

SPECIAL TEAMS 
Zbikowski has returned two punt..<; for touehdowns and averages 19 yard'> per return. David Grimes ha'i 1 0 kiekoff returns, highlighted by a long of 40 yards. D.J. Fitzpatrick is in his third season starting at kicker and pWlter and has made nine out of 11 field goals with a long of 48 yards. 
Punter Brendan Carney has had plenty of time to work on his form, kicking 67 times for an average of 
43.3 yards per attempt. Steve Gregory has 10 punt returns with a long of 1 1.5 yards and Kareem Jones is averaging 24.1 yards per kick return. John Barker has made 6-of-9 field goals. 
Carney is a solid punter and he will get many chances to show his skills on Saturday. Zbikowski is a danger to srorp, ev~ry time he returns a kick. The Irish will break ~.the game open in the return game and set the ofl'ense ti1fwith a snort field, making for easy T~: 
SYRACUSE 2005 Schedule 
Sept. 4  WEST VIRGINIA-L  
Sept. 10  BUFFALO-W  
Sept.  17  VIRGINIA-L  
Oct. 1  at Florida St. -L  
Oct. 7  at Connecticut -L  
Oct. 15  RUTGERS-L  
Oct. 22  at Pittsburgh -L  
Oct. 29  CINCINNATI -L  
Nov. 12  SOUTH FLORIDA-L  
Nov. 19  at Notre Dame  
Nov. 26  at Louisville  

INTANGIBLES 
Notre Dame's seniors will be making their final home appearance and the Irish will do everything possible to make sure they end their careers on a sueeessful note. The team must also win this game and its season finale against Stanford if it wants to make the BCS.  
Syracuse is reeling from a nightmare 1-8 season. The Orange have nothing to lose and would love to spoil the day for the Irish seniors and give Syracuse fans hope that Robinson has the program on the upswing headed into next season. •  
Syracuse has all the motivation to upset Notre Dame and ruin a shot at the BCS. But they don't have enough talent to match their desire, while the la:st home crowd of the year will be loud and eager td''!r!'lfld the rrtsh seniors off wit"h a victory.  

:z 
0 
-4 :tl 
ITI 
c 
> 
3: 
ITI 
en 
-<
:tl 
(")> 
c: 
C/) 
ITI 


Syracuse
Orange Record: 1-8 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
Greg Robinson first season at Syracuse career record: 
1-8 

at Syracuse: 
1-8 


against Notre Greg Robinson Dame: 0-0 head coach 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  WI.  YR  
1  DamiL•n Rhodes  RB  6-0  2ll  SR  
2  ).). Bedle  WR  5-9  175  FR  
3  lim Washington  RB  5-9  209  JR  
4  Terrell Ll~mon  CB  5-10  175  JR  
5  )<><• Fields  QB  6-1  210  so  
6  John Barker  K  5-8  148  FR  
6  Donta Herrod  ss  5-11  190  FR  
7  Lande! Bembo  WR  5-8  163  )I~  
8  Cameron Dantley  QB  6-1  222  FR  
8  Kelvin Smith  Lll  6-2  2.12  JR  
9  Kyle Bell  TE  6-1  22.1  so  
10  Perry Pattt.~rson  QB  6-4  249  )R  
11  Matt Hale  QB  6-5  227  so  
12  Rice Moss  WR  6-2  2-5  so  
13  Marcus Clayton  CB  5-7  173  JR  
14  Quinton Bmwn  WR  5-11  177  so  
15  DeAnde LaCaille  CB  6-0  197  SR  
15  Max Meisel  WR  5-4  148  so  
16  jeremy Home  WR  6-2  185  FR  
17  A.).Bmwn  FS  6-0  203  FR  
18 19  ~~~~i~~:=oy  ss LB  6-0 6-0  196 221  50 JR  
20  Anthony Smith  FS  6-1  194  SR  
21  Kareem Jones  RB  5-11  207  FR  
22  Curtis Brinkley  RB  5-9  180  FR  
2.1  Derek Bailey  CB  5-8  160  FR  
24  jeremy Sellers  RB  6-0  197  so  
25  Stcvc Grefbry  CB  5-11  178  SR  
26  Dowakc  avis  ss  6-0  196  so  
27  Nicho as Chestnut  WR  6-1  170  FR  
28  Tanard Jackson  CB  6-1  187  JR  
29  Thomas Whitfield  CB  5-9  187  SR  
30  Vinccnzo Giruzzi  Lll  6-3  229  so  
31  Andrew Taitt  DB  6-1  186  FR  
32  Lamar McPherson  DB  5-10  190  FR  
33  Ben Maltvcc  FS  6-3  216  FR  
34  Paul Ch ara  l~B  5-11  207  FR  
35  Elon Mitchell  RB  6-2  2.10  FR  
36  Oliver Ft•mandcz  LB  6-1  210  FR  
37  Ricky Krautman  K  5-9  174  so  
38  Brcyone Evans  Fll  6-0  233  so  
39  Christopher Calderon CB  5-7  170  SR  
40  Jason Tannt.~r  DB  6-0  200  FR  
41  Kt•llen Pruitt  LB  6-4  228  SR  
42  Patrick Shad It•  K  5-10  195  Fll  
43  Tony Fiammelta  FB  6-1  228  FR  
45  jake Flaherty  LB  6-1  218  FR  
46  Cory Brooks  DE  6-1  240  SR  
47  Brendan Carney  P/K  6-5  204  )R  
48 49  Stephen McDonald Jamie! Secbadri  FB WR  6-0 5-8  248 1n  JR JR  
50  Joe Neumann  LS  5-11  207  SR  
51  Tony jenkins  DT  6-3  290  50  
52  Jamcel McClain  LB  6-1  242  so  
53  Jamar Atkinson  LB  6-2  222  JR  
54  Mike Owen  I.B  6-2  225  FR  
55  Lee Williams  DE  6-3  244  so  
56  Chris Thorner  DT  6-4  312  JR  
57  jerry Mackey  LB  6-1  244  JR  
58  Mike Stenclik  LB  6-1  22.~  Fll  
59  Carroll Madison  01.  6-2  318  so  
60  Justin Otten  c  6-1  284  JR  
61  Brandon Gilbeaux  DE  6-3  235  FR  
62  Samuel Green<'  01.  6-0  291  m  
63  Kevin Kopko  LS  5-11  217  SR  
64  Coret' Chavers  OT  6-5  288  FR  
65  Joel  oon-Ribblc  OG  6-3  2Ro  FR  
67  Marvin McCall  c  6-2  287  so  
68  David Bouchard  oc  6-5  300  FR  
69  Quinn Ojinnaka  OT  6-5  292  SR  
70  Kader Drame  DT  6-5  290  SR  
71  Steve Franklin  OG  6-5  319  SR  
n  Jason Greene  oc·  6-6  288  SR  
73  Kurt Falke  OT  6-6  295  SR  
74  Ryan Ehrie  OT  6-6  292  FR  
75  ~an Durand  oc  6-5  310  FR  
76  ike Sklarosky  oc  6-4  294  JR  
78  Eugene Newsome  OT  6-7  334  so  
80  Lavar Lobdell  WR  6-2  185  FR  
81 82  Timot~Lane Richa Abney  WR WR  6-2 . 6-1  209 193  JR FR  
83  Shadeed Harris  DT  6-3  278  )R  
83  ).). Nesheiwat  TE  6-4  255  JR  
tl4  Brandon Darlington  TE  6-4  258  JR  
85  Jost.•ph Kowalewski  TE  6-4  250  SR  
86  Bruce Williams  WR  5-11  180  FR  
87  Daniel Bailey  WR  5-8  170  FR  
88  Alex Shor  TE  6-8  255  SR  
89  Tom Ferron  TE  6-3  243  FR  
90  james W~che  DE  6-6  267  SR  
91  Eugene  mwn  DT  6-3  292  SR  
92  Tommy Harris  LB  6-2  233  SR  
93  john Baselice  s  5-10  196  JR  
94  ~an LaCasse  DE  6-3  249  SR  
95  ck Santiago  DT  6-3  305  FR  
96  justin Opalenski  DE  6-3  244  SR  
97  Arthur jones  DT  6-3  270  FR  
98  Arthur Katalan~1  TE  6-1  250  JR  
99  Cornelius  amp ell )r.DE  6-4  278  50  



Syracuse isn't the same program it was years The Irish have had little trouble drubbing ago when Qadry Ismail and Donovan McNabb inferior opponents this season. Notre Dame ealled the Carrier Dome home. Today, it's closer handily beat underdogs Navy and Brigham to thP level of Baylor or Valdosta State. Notre Young and there will be more of the same 
Irish

Dame will demolish the outmatched and lowly this weekend when hapless Syraeuse visits Orange as Brady Quinn piles more yards onto South Bend. The only thing colder than the his lleisman resume and Brandon lloyte ends weather Saturday will be the Syracuse • his sensational career with a victory. football team. 
experts 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 62 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 49 Syracuse 10 Syracuse 14 
Mike Gllloon 
Sports Editor 
Matt Puglisi 
Associate Sports Editor 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 18, 2005 
in at least two more offensive one of the first offensive line­Jackson is the fourth wide season for 72 receptions, linemen.. men that Weis and his staff receiver to commit to the 1,272 yards and 11 touch­
Stewart 
continued from page 28 

met there was intelligent. The football players were intelligent and I just had a good feeling about it." 
Stewart is the third offen­sive lineman to commit to Notre Dame this season and Frank expects Weis to bring 
Michigan 
continued from page 28 

like, '[Gosh!, can we just play a game,"' McGraw said. "So I think that's the point we're at right now-they're ready for a game, I'm ready for another week of practice.... We have a lot of stuff to put in that we haven't worked on." 
But if the No. 15 Irish win tonight against Michigan, it will be McGraw's SOOth career win, making her the 27th NCAA Division I coach to reach that milestone and the 1Oth to do so before age 50. 
However, Michigan won't be as easy to defeat as its 5-23 record and last-place finish in the Big Ten a year ago may indicate. 
"I just think they're a threat," McGraw said. "You can't look at last year's record. It's a whole new team, a whole new attitude, and we're a whole new team too. We're still trying to figure ourselves out." 
Michigan, which has played two regular season games already this year, has been led 
He received four out of a possible five stars and is rated the No. 30 offensive lineman in the nation accord­ing to Scout.com. But Frank said Stewart might be under­rated. 
"You can pretty much flush those rankings down the toi­let," Frank said. "All you need to know is that he was 
by freshman Stephany Skrba, who averaged 13.5 points and six rebounds per game. Skrba earned all-tournament honors at the Women's Sports Foundation Challenge in Eugene, Ore., in addition t.o being named the Big Ten Player of the Week. Skrba was joined by fellow freshman Jessica Minnfield, who aver­aged 10.5 points per game. The Wolverines lost their first game 65-48 to No. 21 Temple, but defeated St. Francis (Pa.) 80-52 in the second game. These two games were in addition to the two exhibitions played by Michigan, something McGraw sees as a distinct advantage. 
"They've had four games already," she said. "That's a big difference when you're talking about the opening night." 
McGraw also said she is con­cerned with the defense of the Wolverines. 
"They press a lot, they're quick, they're very active defensively," McGraw said. "[Michigan head coach Cheryl Burnett] is kinda known for her defense. She's just a really good defensive coach. They play hard, they get up in the offered. He impressed them that much that they said 'Heck, we want this kid. Let's go after him."' 
Boasting an impressive 390-pound bench press and a 500-pound squat, Stewart had his choices narrowed down to LSU, Texas A&M and Ole Miss before choosing Notre Dame. 

Irish and reminds Fra"nk of a larger version of current Notre Dame receiver Rhema McKnight. The 6-foot-2, 195­pound Clermont, Fla. native had 46 receptions this season for 536 yards and five touch­downs. This might be a result of being double-teamed by opponents after he burned his competition his junior downs. 
"It seems like he gets faster the more he runs," Frank said of Jackson, who has been timed at 4.6 seconds in the 40-yard dash. "He's just got that extra gear to pull away from people." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
passing lanes, they deny. They're really going to make it tough for us." 
Meanwhile, the Irish are led by senior point guard Megan Duffy, who should be joined in the backcourt by sophomore Tulyah Gaines. Freshman Lindsay Schrader is expected to start her first ever collegiate game, and rounding out the lineup will likely be forwards 
Crystal Erwin  and  Melissa  
D'Amico.  
Erwin  is  a  player  who  

McGraw has been very happy with in the early part of the season. 
"Crystal's attitude has been fantastic, in that she's in here all the time saying, "[Coach] Angie [Potthoffi, can I watch film?"' McGraw said. "She came in great shape and really ready, but she's like a sponge. She's just trying to learn every­thing she can, and we've just been really thrilled with her work ethic in every way." 
Tipoff is set for after the foot­ball pep rally tonight at 9 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


llllTERlllATIOlllAl EOlACA 10111 


Sf'ONSOJ>eu e.v ­
o{<o l:.SSA .o-: Of'ftc• of l:nf'orna·t'ifonal S-tud$«$ <.. :tn'!S:'t'l"tu't'o 'for Lo..t·lno STudi:Gs K.o-Uogg Ins'ti:fu'to ~~ t--..lanovfc I:n'$t"J:Tu"'t>llft. * Fl$..c:hwr G.-o<h.M>t::t'te P:;o$i:d.en.cets: In't:G"rnoTt.on4J MSAs •:--"Indian S'fud•nt' As.s-"<)C:iQ"ti:on Prvsid.-n't'··s. Offt.e• O.e.on'$ Of'fl¢4, Cotl•g• of ~f""'f'$: .end L.,ertq~ .:::> ,.~grom 4n ~nder S-fl.Jidi.;:$ ..Qi Th.Q Cor.o•r Con'tO:r' ~ Eo~'!' Aston l...:anguog.o~ & L•'t'~ra'h.l,....,..~ .;-. 0«por1'man'l' o1 Biology ..,. b<tp-c:n'"''f'menT o"f Am•rlicon S't'udiq~ ~ A.A,A OLA .c. Alumni As~oei:oi'ion 
For a calendar of events go to: www.nd.edu/-lssa/IEW 
Campus Events for FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18 ... 
Ten Thousand Villages Fairly-Traded Goods Sale ends TODAY! 
Beautiful handcrafted jewelry, papers, ornaments, drums, and other gift items. 10am-4pm Great Hall, O'Shaughnessy 
Asian Allure 
Tickets on sale at LaFortune Box Office, $5 per person. 8pm Washington Hall 
Cuisine Around the World 
8:30pm Wilson Commons 
SINCERE THANKS TO ALL WHO SPONSORED AND PARTICIPATED IN THIS YEAR'S lEW EVENTS! 

l~riday, November 18, 2005 
The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
JOCKULAR 
Wtth Alec swamped wtth work, Erik ftnally gets to draw the strtp the way he's always wanted 

CROISSANTWORLD 
I'D L\\<::E IO SP\'\ \HM \ AM 1-\ot\\OREb \"111\1 'fOI.I. 1-\P.'-IE C..HOSE.~ 
ME, DENIS ZHI\NllA, To BE 'lou.~ NE..\1'.1 
FooiBAU-CoN:.\-Io. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Starchy 

1 Historic trials 36 Dramatic 7 High-tech heart, opening for short 
38 Buck passer? 1oSomewhere 
41 Kutcher who 
over the rainbow 

hosted TV's 14 One affected by "Punk'd" a strike 
42 Horse-drawn 15 Like some 
vehicle devils? 
43 It may go for mi. 

17 Question upon and mi. 
hearing an 44 Sentencing
accent request

19 Host 46 Aload
20 Surface 48 Point in the
21 Buck passer? 
right direction?

22 Particle stream 50 Pageant put-on
23 Possible penicillin target 52 Starter's aid 
25 Capital of 54 "Black" day in Cambodia the stock 28 It's not out of 
market crash, the ordinary 
10/29/1929: Abbr.

31 Put_ (shove off) 56 "Don't be so shy!"
33 Factor in some acad. probations 57 Ring sport 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
13 Kind of sleep 16 Fizzle 18 Knocking noise 24 Topping for fish 
or meat -=+=+::-! 26 Thrusted thing 27 Nest 29 Etymologist's concern 30 Classic comedy film about gender-role reversal 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
58 "Same thing, really" 62 Aged 63 Onetime Missouri natives 64 Corporeal canal 65 Sign of a crowd 66 With 9-Down, tops 
DOWN 1 Not just bickering 2 Mehrabad International Airport site 3 Intelligence concern 4 Not at all 
lethargic 5 Windsor, for one 6 Comes (to) 7 Rally Sport, e.g. 8 Wage earners 9 See 66-Across 
10 Concerning 11 Curriculum requirement, often 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
'{E.AI-\ I ·~Pi\ AC.."'(L.\ ALL~ PRE..~ C::toot:> . So 1 L \KE 
1 
"'\o'\ ALL'I 6 o N U.T.S 
""':>~IZ.INL:i '\HAl. \ '..NA.N N~ SEE. 'JOU QU'{S F~'C::ll:ttN' F1,...1 P ou.T \J'\Itll-\ ItA 1'-z:.". -n·-CINC(. 0\::..A'j 
C::tLAO WE.. I 12-E. AI.\... (OOI..i. 
WILLSHORTZ 

40 Wood problem 55 Some aliens take it: Abbr.
45 Comparatively creamy 57 Vulnerable gap 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City ______________ State ____ Zip______ 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
YOAPS 

( J I 
«:l2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
INVEX 

I [ J 
VEELEN 
j
I I ( (] 
www.jumble.com 
Jumbles:
Yesterday's 
Answer: 
HoRoscoPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Isaac llanson, 25; Daisy Fuentes, 39; Danny DeVito, 61; !.orne Michaels, 61 
Happy Birthday: Prepare to take on challenges this year. You will have no problem standing up to whatever comes your way, but you may have some trouble dealing with the peopl€ involved. Have a clear-cut idea of what you arc trying to accomplish. Don't be alraid to make a mistake--conlidencc is the key. Your numbers arc 9, 23, 25, 34, 37,44 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Be honest with yourself and others. Take any opportunity to do things with friends, relatives or neighbors. You can teach others what you know and learn something yourself: u•• TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You need to be social, especially with people who can help you move in a direction ofprosperity. Keep things simple and don't lead people to believe that you have more to offer than you do. ••• GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): You'll lind it difficult to contain your emotions. If you don't want things to get out of hand, clear the air and tell it like it is. Someone you care about will be understanding and help you through whatever ordeal you face. • • • CANCER (June 21-July 22): A sudden change of events must not be looked at as a negative. Ifyou arc quick to react, you can see the benefit ofchange. An older relative or friend can offer you some good advice. • •• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't get left out because you were hemming and hawing. Make plans early so you don't end up sitting at home alone. You need to boost your confidence, and by participating, you will do just that. •••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Watch what you say to others. A problem with friends or relatives will leave you feeling emotionally tired. Do your best to avoid arguments, but don't let anyone get the better of you. • • LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Love, romance and adventure should all be on your mind and in your plans. It's time you confirmed the way you feel and what your intentions are to the people around you. Travel plans should be discussed. ••••• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Money will come to you in an unusual way. Your hard work and dedication to others will pay otT. Thinking big can't hurt ...... you can always size down your ideas once you have interest in your plans. • • • SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You have added discipline so why wait? The more you participate in activities that will keep you at your best, the better you will do in all aspects ofyour life. An emotional issue must be dealt with. • • • CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): An all-out effort to get a better job or to make more money must be your goal today. Someone will be willing to do a favor for you. Take advantage of any opportunity to make things happen. • • • AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will have a very unusual effect on the people you interact with today. Talk about your ideas and thoughts, and you will capture the attention of someone who can make a difference to your future. A partnership may develop. ••••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): No matter what you do, it will be diflicult to get the recognition you are looking for today. Put in the extra time and be sure to compliment individuals who contribute to whatever you arc working on. •• 
Birthday Baby: You know how to charm your way into anything. You arc bright, articulate and worldly. You have a strong sense of what will work, and you are capable of doing whatever it takes to succeed. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfiJr confidential con.ru/tations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
QUILT DADDY JERSEY HUNTER How the manicure student did on her final exam ­SHE "NAILED" IT 
EUGENIA LAST HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

WHAT MOM DID WHEN SHE GOT A NE:W WASHING MAC.HINE:. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 
I 32 Succeed in a big way 35 "Dejeuner sur l'herbe" artist 
37 Nevada's second-largest county 
38 Thun's river 
39 Court org. since 1881 47 Gordon aka Sting 

49 Coach 51 It's negative 53 With 59-Down, 
unimpressive 
58 _ Friday's 59 See 53-Down 60 Writing: Abbr. 61 East Lansing 
sch. 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


----~-----------------­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, November 18, 2005 
page 28 
fOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Offensive lineman Stewart commits to team 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
Notre Dame literally received one of the biggest recruits in school history Thursday when 6-foot-5, 360-pound offensive lineman Chris Stewart gave his verbal commitment to the Irish. 
"He's a guy that absolutely engulfs people," Mike Frank of Irisheyes.com said. "He's 
got so much potential it's unbeliev­able." 
Apparently, Irish coach Charlie Weis agreed with Frank's assessment of the Klein, Tex. native. 
Along with wide receiv­er Richard Jackson, who also 


NCAA SOCCER TOURNAMENT 
Irish face Western Illinois in a first-round home matchup 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 

The recent turn in the weather does not bother Bobby Clark. 
"It's great to think that we're playing still when there is snow on the ground," the Irish head coach said. "Think about all the other 152 teams that aren't lucky enough to play in the snow now. They're out. Their seasons are over. 
"When you are in the tournament, you are usually playing in bad weather. And that's great because that means you are in the tour­nament." 
Notre Dame (10-7-3, 6-4-1) opens the NCAA tournament against Western Illinois tonight at Alumni Field at 5 p.m. Clark, in his fifth season at the helm for the Irish, has led 
see NCAA/ page 23 
HOCKEY 

Irish take a two-game streak to Mia111i Ohio 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
After a two-game sweep of Bowling Green that evened its CCHA record at 2-2, the Notre Dame hockey team will travel to Goggin Arena in Oxford, Ohio to take on No. 12 Miami University. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, they have not won in Goggin Arena since 2003 and have lost seven of their last 10 games there. 
."We don't like playing there," Notre Dame defenseman Noah 

WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
LLI 
u 

z Carrying a two-game winning streak, the Irish 
.. 
::5 
will compete in the
c:J 

Minnesota Invitational 
= ~ 
this weekend. 

page 22
Cl) 
Babin said. "Over the past few years it's been our downfall. We have a lot of guys on the team who want to get past that little curse." 
Still, this year the Irish have an advantage they did not have in the past -coming into the game riding a winning streak after the sweep of the Falcons. 
The two wins last weekend represented the frrst time Notre Dame had swept a two-day series since Feb. 27-28, 2004 when they beat Michigan. The committed to Notre Dame on Thursday, Weis now has 22 known verbals in his first full recruiting class. 
None of the recruits can sign official letters of intent until February. 
However, Stewart said he has met with Notre Dame Director of Admissions Dan Saracino and will be enrolling in school in January along with running back recruit James Aldridge. 

They are believed to be the first Irish football recruits in the modern era to enroll a semester early at Notre Dame. 
The chance to enroll before the majority of his team­mates was one of several reasons the massive of'fen­sive lineman chose Notre Dame. 
"There's no school in the world like it," Stewart said in an interview with The 
Stayin' alive 

see HOCKEY/page 21 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
The No. 18 Irish have their first home meet in nearly a month, facing St. Bonaventure. 
page 20 
Observer Thursday. "There's a unique blend of atmos­phere and people from around the world." 
Stewart intends to major in history and Spanish -a combination that he feels will help him achieve his career goal of being a for­eign ambassador. "Being able to graduate from Notre Dame would be incred­
see STEWART/page 26 

Bulldogs are scary underdogs in third round of tournament 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame doesn't want to do what Duke did. 
Five days after Yale stunned the over­confident No. 10 Blue Devils with a last­second goal to advance to the round of 16 in the NCAA Tournament, the defending national champion Irish will host the Bulldogs in a battle of two of the hottest teams in the country tonight at Alumni Field, which will kick off 40 minutes after the conclusion of the men's game. 
"I think any team coming off a momen­tous win, like scoring in the last second of a game, they are on a huge upswing," senior Irish midfielder Annie Schefter said. "1 think that Yale is a team that a 
see YALE/page 22 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Wolverines travel to JACC 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw wishes she had anoth­er week of practice instead of tonight's first 
regular-sea-See Also 
son game, despite what "Making her her players point" may say. 
"I always lrishlnsider feel like we need another week of practice, and the players always feel 
see MICHIGAN/page 26 


MEN'S BASKETBAll 
Notre Dame vs. Lafadette 
Sun ay, 2 p.m. 
The Irish open their season at home. 
page 20 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Hanover Tip-Off Classic . Today, 1 p.m. 
The Belles will begin their season at this annual tournament. 
page 19 

IRISH INSIDER 
Z:\IW E\CIS ~~' .\.'I) l\\.'~' &\TlUS PASQllEfUU.\ WIST l'lllf ~'lDH.\ll l~\M.PK>:'Ni~P& Slf'.;;U\l N .'\"'n£0:\\IE SO\DIU\l 
.... . . . ..
. . . ' 
.----:--:------o---­

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 18, 2005 
Performance clashes with transition 
There is no more NCAA talk. There are no more guarantees. There are no more prec:oncep­tions of the team they have, the team they'll be or the team they should be. All the Irish know right now is that they are not the same team they were last season. 
And in some ways, that may be the best realization this team could come to before opening the 2005 season against Lafayette on Sunday. 
Chris Thomas' graduation means a new era and a new start. Going into Thomas' senior season last year, Notre Dame had high expectations of a play­er who wore the number one. He swaggered into the gym on media day in Oct. 2004, and the team swaggered in behind him. 
Coach Mike Brey, his assistant coaches and the players all knew they had the potential to accomplish as much, if not more, than the program had in recent memory -and that's taking into account a Sweet 16 bid in March 2003. Brey had Thomas (an explosive guard), Torin Francis (an inside scoring threat) and Dennis Latimore (a relatively unknown but promis­ing transfer). 
So Brey strode to the presea­son podium, sat down in the Joyce Center Auditorium and said, with confidence, "We've got to get back to the NCAA tournament." 
That was his goal, because he knew the Irish could achieve it. 
Expectations did not motivate that particular group. Notre Dame bowed out of NCAA con­sideration with a first-round Big East Tournament loss to Rutgers, only to further self­destruct in a first-round NIT home loss to Holy Cross. 
So Brey is responding by 

Pat Leonard 
Sports Writer 


PHIL HUDELSONfThe Observer Notre Dame point guard Chris Quinn, left, played shooting guard in his first three seasons. Now, Irish coach Mike Brey, right, is entrusting Quinn to run the offense and co-captain hi~ team. 
removing lofty expectations from his new team and replac­ing them with realistic ones. 
"We're not picked in any polls," the coach said on this year's media day. "For this group, that's probably a very good atmosphere for this group to be in." 
The key for Brey, then, is to establish that mentality early to leave him room to work with lineups, younger players and offensive schemes to get the best out of this particular group. 
More than any year during Brey's tenure at Notre Dame ­he is in his sixth season -this Irish team will go as far as its coaches take them. And this isn't because the players are unskilled or unable to compete. They are able. 
It's because in the 2005-06 season, the Irish will be trying their hardest to reach Madison Square Garden, to compete for serious wins and postseason berths, while simultaneously transitioning from the Thomas era to the McAlarney era, the Ayers era, the Hillesland or Zeller era -a chapter in Notre Dame basketball history that has not begun. 

And right smack in the middle of it all stands Chris Quinn, a reliable ball-handler and con­sistent shooter who finally has the opportunity to prove himself at his natural position. 
And there are countless other factors weighing on Brey's mind. 
Rick Cornett is a senior but has not yet seen significant min­utes. Francis began his career at Notre Dame with a bang and then fizzled into single digit averages in points and rebounds last season. He even tested NBA waters in June before returning for his final season. 
But what some may perceive as uncertainty-junior Omari Israel left the team last Friday -is really just the evolution of a program and a team. In a point guard-dominated offense the past four years, Notre Dame knew where the ball was, who had it and for whom they would draw last-second plays. 
Brey's offense has been suc­cessful and will not change. The point guard will continue to run the show on both ends of the floor. But that point guard can only create the team's new, last­ing identity when he has time to do so. 
And that is why, though late in his career, Quinn is the obvi­ous and best candidate to become Notre Dame's visible leader. 
It's just a shame he graduates in May. The Irish could have used him at the point last sea­son. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Schedule adjusts to Big East 
Cincinnati, St. John's absent from 2005-06 Notre Dame slate 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
In the 'new' Big East, with 16 teams and a limited amount of conference games before the postseason begins in March. Notre Dame will not play all of its conference foes -and nei­ther will any Big East team, for that matter. 
Each team in the Big East will play 13 separate conference opponents, including three home-and-home series. 
Notre Dame plays DePaul, Marquette and Providence all twice this season. But Big East newcomer Cincinnati (from Conference-USA) and longtime conference member St. John's do not appear on the Irish slate. 
In arguably the most critical stretch on any team's schedule, Notre Dame has an abnormal nine games scheduled during the school's winter break. In the transition from non-conference to Big East competition, Brey and the Irish will face Niagara -the reigning Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference (MAAC) champion -along with IPFW, Columbia, Fordham and Wofford. Then, the squad will dive into Big East play with two consecutive road games. 
Pittsburgh greets Notre Dame soon after the new year at the Petersen Events Center (Jan. 4), followed by a matchup with DePaul (Jan. 7) and an oddly schedule Jan. 11 game against Syracuse, before University stu­dents return. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Carter cracks starting five 

By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
After spending most of last season as a role player used pri­marily to provide intensity on the ofTensive end, Russell Carter was excited when he was informed of his starting spot on this year's team. 
Carter started both exhibition games against Lewis University and Quincy University in the backcourt alongside Chris Quinn and Colin Falls. 
The three-guard snt is nothing new for Irish coach Mike Brey ­who used Falls, Quinn and Chris Thomas together last season. And for Carter, it is relieving to relax on the court without hav­ing to look over his shoulder. 
"Sitting on the bench watching all the guys do their thing served as motivation," Carter said. "l want to be able to play with the guys that are my teammates and also my friends." 
Carter brings an offensive edge to the floor. lie scored 11 points on 4-of'-9 shooting in the preseason opener against Lewis and had 12 points against Hutgers in a first-round Big East tournament game last season. 
"Like coach said, I just bring a 
PHIL HUDELSONfThe Observer 
Junior guard Russell Carter is an athletic, offensive threat. 
spark," Carter said. ''I'm just somewhat of a high energy guy. All of my career I've been a scorer, so I really don't know anything else. When it comes to the ofl'ensive end, l pretty much know what to do." 
But Carter will be asked to do more than shoot this season if he is going to be a productive player. He has to trust the ability of his teammates to score points just as easily as he can. 

Irish coach Mike Brey said throughout the preseason that Carter's main focus should be on becoming easier to play with. Much of that has to do with Carter's need to trust himself as a team player as well as a scor­er. 
'The coaches have helped me learn to put more trust in my teammates and that everyone can score," Carter said. 
Carter proved he was willing to take this role in the team's final exhibition game against Quincy, when he only attempted five field goals in 25 minutes. 
The junior guard also will need to continue to improve on the defensive end this season. Carter has shown signs this fall that he has worked on strength­ening this aspect of his game. 
"I've been impressed [that) Carter has grasped the role of defending more," Brey said. "He's a very good ofTensive play­er, but he's been very good in the preseason as far as under­standing we need him to guard people too, and guard athletic guys." 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
THE NEW BIG EAST CONFERENCE 

Friday, November 18, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
The 1 one' and only 
Point guard Chris Quinn will lead and teach his way through his final season 
of thn only sure~ things on a team Irish want to win now. The youngBy BOBBY GRIFFIN full of q unstion marks and is not guys need experience this sea­Associarr Spnrrs Edicnr worrind about passing him the son, and ()uinn is the senior who 
toreh. needs to make suro it happens. 
NotrP Danw 's SlH~cnss this sea­"Nobody lost sleep over Chris ()uinn's tutelage~ should most son rests on tlw shoulders of' ()uinn having tho ball," Brey said bcmefit Kyle MeAiarney, his most point guard Chris Quinn. It's a lot Oct. I:{ during nwdia day. "lie's, I likely successor. The Staten of' wnight to carry, hut the I H5-think, one of tho underrated Island native seornd 2,566 points pound snnior wouldn't want it guards in our lnagun and in the in high school while earning two any othnr way. eountry." sta\e player of' the year awards. 
()uinn r.amn into sumnwr prac­And if anyone is suitnd to be "[I'll do I anything I can do to tkn f(ll"usnd. llis tPam missnd the tho suecnssor to Thomas, it's help Kyle espeeially," Quinn said. NCAA toumanwnt last season ()uinn. "It's going be and gracftmtl~d its most rncogniz­Quinn avc~ragnd prntty mueh his abln playPr, Chris Thomas. The I:3.h points, tlm~n "/ think when you get team after this 
Irish wnrp on nohody's prnseason assists and three down to the stretch of year. Anything I radar. lnstPad of' thinking about rebounds whiln can do to help
the game, guys are
thP Final Four. tlwy wnrP fiwusnd shooting 46-pnr­him to become a on tlw Big l·:ast tournamnnt. eent from :{-point going to be looking up better player, But ()uinn knows lw is playing rangn and 7H­to their senior become a better l'or somPt.hing mon~. For thn first pnrennt from tho leader, bneonw a
leaders."
timn in his coiiPgiatn earner, f'rne throw linn bntter point NotrP l>anw is his tmun. No. 2 on last snason. Morn guard for this thP Irish rostnr is finally playing impressivn is his Chris Quinn team, I'm going tlw orw. eanw r 2.!J-to-t­Irish point guard to dnf'initely try 
As a lif'Piong point guard that assist to t.urnovnr to do that." startPd at shooting guard along­ratio. Quinn was sidl' Thomas f'or thn past two But Quinn knows taking ovnr onee in this position with Thomas sPasons. this ni'W task nwans a tlw ofTense involvns morn than as his tnadwr. lot to thP Sl'nior f'rorn Dublin, statistics. It's about leading, and "My frnshman year. !Thomas! Ohio. it's about winning. and Matt Carroll were guys I 
'Tvn always bPPn a point guard "I think wlwn you get down to used to look up to," {)uinn said. my whoiP lif'c~ siru·e I was real the strc~tch of' tho ganw, guys are "They had been through the Big young," ()uinn said. "It was going to he looking up to tlwir East season, Iandi they had been always a position I loVI'd playing, snnior loaders," Quinn said. through a lot already in eollege always thn position I worknd at "That's our job to stnp up in basketball. They were guys I and took pridn in." those situations and find a way to looked at to sen how they did 
It's not that Quinn donsn't like win." thing~. on the eourt and orr the to shoot tlw hall -t.lw Irish will Brny has a uniqun rnlationship court. dnpnnd on his scoring to win with his point guards beeausn of But that situation was differ­ganws this snason -hut this is the responsibilities he gives ent. Thomas showed Quinn the llw first ynar the senior will be them. ()uinn has roeogniznd the ropes while they were playing abln to both load his own team development of a unique bond tognther for throe years. Thomas and maturn at his true position. with Brny as a co-captain and had the luxury of knowing that 
senior point guard. ()uinn would develop alongside of Following In line "Thorn am times where Coach him, not behind him. 


Brny's teams immediately Brey will pull leo-captain] Torin Quinn only has one season to shooting guard after being the he's just like the older brother, he lwgan to develop around point !Francis) and I i'n the ollice and figure out how to lead his own third guard in a throe-guard set holds us together," Carter said. guards with hmdership and seor­talk to us a little bit about differ­team and how to prepare the last season. Hob Kurz is now a "We ean shoot 0-for-20 from ing ability whnn he arrived at ent things about our team," Irish for the future. So far his low post threat alter not playing three point, and he's going to tell Notrn Damn in .July 2000. ()uinn said. "I think that goes teammates believe he is doing for much of last year. Rick us the next shot is going in. 
In the past five seasons, Brey with being experienced and also well. Cornett is now liguring out what That's just helpful on the lloor, has had two point men -Martin being a point guard. lie's going to "Just watching !Quinn] and kind of role he will have as a sen­and when we're playing against lnglnshy and Chris Thomas­eoaeh me nven morn." everything just helps me be a ior playing behind Kurz and another team away in front of who worn both named captains leader, get more comfortable Francis. 15,000, that's eomf'orting." by thnir snnior year. Simultaneous learning and with the guys, be able to talk to Russell Carter is now a starter But for Quinn, this is all lw 
Quinn is thn third to follow in teaching them and be more voeal," after being a bench player last eould have asknd for. IIn has a this lc~gac~y. and he understands Quinn has earned a certain McAlarney said. "That's what a season. full plato and a biggnr appetite. thn importancn of' playing the amount of respect from his team point guard does especially in Ryan Ayers, Luke Zeller and And he's ready to prove himself' 
point, nspncially in Brey's oll'ense. in these roles, but with this this ofl'ense." McAJarney are now adjusting to as more than a suitable replace­
"It is an important part of what respeet comes a lot of responsi­college while hoping to have sig­ment for thosn who came bnf'om Coach Brny tries to do," Quinn bility. IIn must balanee the pres­Reflective as a whole nifkant roles on this year's team. him. said. "In basketball, point guard suw of leading the Irish on the Quinn's situation at point guard So while Quinn spends his time "It's exciting f'or nw to be a is an extrenwly important posi­court with teaching his younger reflects the transition of the team learning how to run the oiTnnse senior, to be a captain, to bn a tion. You're~ tlw quarterback out teammates oil" of it. as a whole. Just as the point and helping MeAiarney along the lnader," ()uinn said. "And to just there, you're~ the guy who's get­The program is facnd with the guard position is stable but evolv­way, he will also be responsible take charge of this tt~am." ting Pvnrything startnd." reality that another first-year ing, so the team's direction is for leading a group that nm~ds 
Quinn is mnfidP.nt but so is his starter will bP running the team gradually taking shape. guidance. Contact Bobby Griffin at madt. Brey ronsidnrs Quinn onn next season, evnn though the Colin Falls is now the starting "We're just like a family and · rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Israel's departure illustrates Brey' s dilemma 
Position Depth Chart 
Coach Mike Brey has multiple lineups to choose, from. Here are his choices at each position. Current starters are listed first for each category: 
PG; Quinn/McAiarney/Ayers 
SG: Falls/Quinn/Carter/ McAiarney/Ayers 
SF: Carter/Falls/Ayers/ Hillesland 
PF: Kurz/Cornett/Zeller 
C: Francis/Cornett/Kurz/Zeller 
Ci"•Ph"-by MATT HUDSONrThe Observer 

By PAT LEONARD 
Spons Writrr 
When junior forward Omari Israel announced he was leaving the Irish last Friday, Notre Dame coach Mike Brey expressed dis­appointment but remained con­fident his team would pnrsist. 
That's beeause Israel's depar­ture still leaves Brey with 10, ablo scholarship players to jug­gle in-and-out of a eonstantly evolving lineup. 
If' anything, Israel's abrupt absence proves just how many players Brey has to choose from -and just how few minutes am available for all of them. 
"We have to get guys that haven't had experience ... we 
have to get them reps and play­ing time through November and Deeember to get them ready for league play," Brey said on media day. 
Brey will start the same five players on Sunday that he did in tho preseason -Chris Quinn, Colin Falls, Bussell Carter, Hob Kurz and Torin Francis. 
That lineup, though, is not "etched in stone," as Brey said following an 80-53 win over Quincy on Friday. 
"When you have young guys like we have, there's just no tolling whern they're going to be in another week, in another month, in another six weeks," lkoy said. 
The eoaeh has the task not only of allowing Chris Quinn to become this team's on-court leader. lie also must prnpare the Irish for next season and play freshman point guard Kyle McAlarney, who was sidelined with lower back spasms as of Wednesday evening. 
Those two eould see the eourt together, or MeAlarney eould give ()uinn breathers. Freshman guard/forward Hyan Ayers has auditioned at the point in McAlarney's abscmee, as well. 
At the two-guard slot, Falls is the eurrent starter, but he and Carter play a similar position. Against bigger teams, one of the two may see less playing time as either Ayers. freshman forward Zaeh llillesland or freshman for­ward Luke Zellnr spell them at small forward. 
Brey's substitution dilnmma eontinues into the frontwurt, as Francis and Kurz have dis­tanced thcmselvns from t.lw pack in the narly going but arn not proven, consistent inside 
thn~ats. 
Senior Hiek Cornntt spnlls Franeis at eentnr or Kurz at for­ward, though Brey is hesitant to play Francis and Cornntt togeth­er because it dncroases speed and transition ofl'nnse. 
And Zeller has shown, with a 6-foot-11, 240-pound frame, that he ean bang down on the low block, as well, making him a viable option to give most liklny Kurz a brnatlwr. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 18, 2005 
Photos by PHIL HUDELSON/The Observer 

MEN'S OUTLOOK 
RYAN AYERS 
GUAHD/FORWARD 6'8", 203lbs. No. 42-FR 
Senior H.S. stats 
Points 15.0 Hebounds 8.0 Assists 4.0 

2005-06 expectations Ayers was the 2005 Gatorade Player of the Year in Pennsylvania. The slight versatile shooter has a long wingspan and also has auditioned at point guard. 
TORIN FRANCIS 
FORWARD 6'11", 252 lbs. No. 34-SR 
2004-05 stats 
Points 9.3 Rebounds 7.8 FT% 68.4 

2005-06 expectations Franeis backed out of June's NBA draft to return for his senior season. He must establish the low post early in games or Notre Dame will not score many· points. 
*Walk-on
CHRIS MURPHY 
FORWARD 6'7'', 216 lbs. No. 24 -SR 
Senior H.S. stats 
Points 15.8 Hebounds 8.5 Assists 3.0 


2005-06 expectations Murphy, who played at Benet Academy and hails from Downers Grove, Ill., is in his second straight season as a skilled Irish walk-on. 
2004-2005 Schedule 
Dec. 21 Niagara Dec.23 Columbia Dec. 28 Fordham Dec.30 Wofford Jan. 4 at Pittsbur h 
Jan. 11 Syracuse 
Jan. 14 Providence 
Jan.20 at Marquette 
Jan.24 Georgetown 
Feb. 1 at West Virginia 


Feb.8 Rutgers Feb. 15 South Florida Feb. 18 at Seton Hall Feb. 21 at Connecticut Feb.25 Marquette Mar. 1 at Providence Mar. 4 DePaul Mar. 8 Big East Championship Mar. 16 NCAA Championship 

CHRIS QUINN 
GUARD 6'2", 185 lbs. No. 2-SR 
2004-05 stats 
Points 12.6 Assists 3.2 AssistllrO 2.9/1 

2005-06 expectations . Quinn is playing his natural position for thee first time in four years. He commits few turnovers and will have everything to do with this team's fate. 
THE SCHEDULE 
v 

MIKE BREY 
HEAD COACH 6th season 102-56 overall 
·2004-05 record 
Season 17-12 Big East 9-7 
2005-06 expectations Brey has not taken the Irish to the NCAA tournament since the 2002-03 season. He must juggle minutes among players while also identifying his core. 
,PRESEASON ALLcBIG EI\ST TEA.r-.l (CONT) 
-Allan Ray, G -Villanova #Curtis Sumpter, F -Villanova Kevin Pittsnogle, C -West Virginia 
PRESEASON ALL-BIG EAST HONORABLE MENTION 
Eric Hicks, F -Cincinnati Brandon Bowman, F-Georgetown Jeff Green, F -Georgetown CHRIS QUINN, G -NOTRE DAME 
• .:.. denotes unanimous selection # -player Is out lndehnltely (Injury) 

PRESEASON CO-PLAYERS.OL, THE YEAR 
Rudy Gay, F -Connecticut Gerry McNamara, G -_Syracuse 
PRESEASON ALL-BIG EAST TEt\ivl 
*Josh Boone, C-Connecticut Rudy Gay, F -Connecticut Taquan Dean, G-Louisville Carl Krauser, G -Pittsburgh Daryl! Hill, G -St. John's *Gerry McNamara, G -Syracuse Randy Foye, G -Villanova 
MEN'S PRESEASON POLlS 
ftrst-pl.tU! vmn in pouendu•scs 
I. Duke (61) 2. Tcua (6) 
3. 
Connecticut 

4. 
Michigan State (4) 

5. 
Villanova (I) 

6. 
Oklahoma 

7. 
Louinillc 

8. 
Gonzqa 

9. 
Kentucky 

10. 
Arizona 

11. 
Boston Collese 

12. 
Memphi• 

13. 
Stanford 

14. 
West Virginia 15..Alabama 


16. 
Syracuse 

17. 
Illinois 

18. 
WalteF 

19. 
UCI 20.lo"


u, •.P ll,·
ii 
I. Duke (28) 
2. Connectirut 
3. Tau (2) 
4. 
ViUa.nova ( 1 ) 

5. 
Michigan State 

6. 
Oklahoma 7.Gonur 


8. 
Loni..Yille 

9. 
Arizona 

10. 
Kentucky 

11. 
Boston Collesc 

12. 
Memphis 

13. 
Stanford 

14. 
Alabama 




Friday, November 18, 2005 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 
WOMEN'S OUTLOOK 

CHAREL ALLEN 
<;UAHI> 5'11" 
No.2-SO 
2004-05 stats 

Points 7.7 Hehounds 4.2 Assists 1.4 
2005-06 expectations Allnn rnturns aflnr having ofl'-snason krwn surgnry. She burst onto the senne as a frnshrnan and eould be koy for tlw Irish as shn gets to 100 pnrcent. 
CHYSTAL EHWIN 
FOI!WAHD. f>' 5" 
No.34-JH 
2004-05 stats 

Minutes 17.5 Points 53 Helwunds 3.S 

2005-06 expectations Erwin ls n physical presence in the post li>r th~ Irish. Sh~ will b~ looknd upon for more scoring and leadership as an uppHrdassman this year. 
LINDSAY SCIIHADER 
GUAHI> 6'0" No. 24-FH 

Uigh4-IMOOl-+il:fttS 
Points 20.7 Hebounds I0.0 Steals 3.0 
2005-06 expectations Schrader ran score. But can shn play nnough defemw to plflase McGraw'! l·:itlwr way. the !Tnshman will see the court be(:ause the Irish need a scorer. 
*Walk-on
BRITTNEY 
BOLDEN 
GUAHD 
5'7" No. 14-FH 
lligh s<~hool stats 


2005-06 expectations Bolden is a late addition to the Irish and should provide depth at guard. Iler physical play will help the Irish preparn for more physical opponents. 
TULYAH GAINES 
GUAHD 
5'7" 
No.1-SO 
2004-05 stats 

Minutes  13.7  
Points  2.4  
Hebounds  2.0  
Minutes 23.9 Points 5.5 Rebounds 3.3 


2005-06 expectations Gaines has played in control this yAar, limiting turnovers that plagued as a freshman. She will complement Dully in the backcourt. 
CHANDRICA SMITH 
FOHWAHD 6'1" No. 21-FH 
High school stats 
Points 11.1 
Hebounds 6.1 
Steals 



2004-2005 Schedule 
Nov. 18  Michigan  
Nov. 20  at Western Michigan  
Nov. 23  at Indiana  
Nov. 27  usc  
Nov. 29  lana  
Dec. 4  at Wisconsin  
Dec. 17  at Arkansas  
Dec. 18  at North Carolina  
Dec.28  Valparaiso  
Jan.4  at St. John's  
Jan. 7  Seton Hall  
Jan. 10  Marquette  
Jan. 14  at Louisville  
Jan.21  at Georgetown  
Jan. 24  at Rutqers  
Jan.28  South Florida  
Jan. 31  at Syracuse  
Feb.4  Providence  
Feb. 7  Villanova  
West Virginia  
Cincinnati  
Feb.28  Pittsburgh  
Mar. 4  Big East Tournament  
Mar. 18  NCAA Tournament  

MELISSA D'AMICO 
CENTEH 6'h"
,) 
2004-05 stats 
Minutes  6.1  
Points  1.9  
Rebounds  1.4  



2005-06 expectations D'Amico is much-improved and should be a f'oree down low for the Irish. She will be right in the mix for a starting spot from the beginning. 
BREONA GRAY 
GUAIW 5'9" No. 32 -JH 
2004-05 stats 

2005-06 expectations Gray is still eoming back from some ot1'­season injuries. Once healthy, she will bn the defensive stopper, but she has to score more thi<; year. 
*Walk-on
CHRISTINE TREZZA 
FOHWAHD 6'0" 
No. 22-FR 
High school stats 
Points 10.4 Rebounds 12.0 

2005-06 expectations Trezza is another body for the Irish who was a late addition this year. She was an all-conference performer her senior year in high schooL 

MEGAN  ~  .,.  
DUFFY  
GUAHD  :*  i.u1···:. ~ ' -"( 
5'7"  
No. 13-SH  _..,'  
2004-05 stats  
.  :.~~ow  ..  
'  
Minutes  37.0  ·~  
Points  12.3  
Assists  5.4  

2005-06 expectations Dully is the iloor general for the third straight year and is the t,(~llrn 's undis­puted leader. SbA is the facA of thn program now that Battnast is gone. 
COURTNEY LAVERE 
FOHWAHD 
6'3" No. 41-SH 
2004-05 stats 
Minutes  20.8  
Points  7.5  
Rebounds  :~.9  

2005-06 expectations A'> a lrnshman, LaVern showed signs of being a dominating prnsnneo. Shn nends to rnturn to that limn to havn tho sonior year McGraw wants her to have. 
*Walk-on

AMANDA TSIPIS 
GUAHD 5'10" 
No. 11-SO 
2004-05 stats 
Minutes 2.7 Points 0.5 Hebounds 0.1 


2005-06 expeetations Tsipis provid(~S tim Irish with depth in the baekcourt. The nioee of' assistant coach Jonathan Tsipis, she will givo the Irish another solid guard on tho bnneh. 
WOMEN'S PRESFASON POLLS 
fiJtr·ptkt 'WMd II~ r..ttd\Chrie­
1. 
Dub (17) t. Te._ (21) 

2. 
T ...... _ (23) 2. Duh (6) 


3. LSU (3) 3. LSU (1) -'· O.llio State <6. O!.io State (I) 
5. Rlltpta S. &ylor 6.. &,.tor (l) 6.. Rutpn 
7. Nonla Carolina 7. Coaaectlmt 
ll. (t.o'Jia (1) ll. North Catollaa 
9. 
C.oaaec:tlmt !1. Staa(onf (l) 

10. 
Mic:hipa Statll 10. Georpa 


ll. Staaford Q ll. Midaipa Sta111 
11. Tnaa g > U.T­
13. Tao Tec:h I>. ~ 13. Tesu Tecla H. Muylud c.. "':1 14. MaryLu1d IS. Noue O.m.. < S1 ts. Adao•u• Sta.c. 
16. Ml.•sn-ta •;:.. Uh·N•itw Dame t7. Va>~del'bUt .,_,,:;,, } 11,•.1\4Utaell0t* 
18. ~r~..l :w··· ....,.,',Q~P!Iul 
i 9. 1\;;,tu.,, > .. f<::~~te Viiflti<:rbilt 
• 

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 18, 2005 
The floor general 
Senior point guard Megan Duffy returns to lead ayoung but talented Irish team 
see me in the gym, hopefully By KEVIN BRENNAN they'll kind of look at that, and Spans Writer they'll stay a few more minutes 
extra and get some shooting in." 

Practice was over, but Megan Duffy was not ready to leave Early accolades just yet. While all of her coach­Duffy enters her senior sea­es and teammates had already son surrounded by hype. The exited the Joyce Center prac­Big East coaches voted her to tice gym last week, Duffy the preseason all-Big East remained on the floor, taking team, and she is a preseason jumper after jumper. candidate for Big East Player of 
Notre Dame's senior point the Year. In August, Duffy was guard has been going through one of 30 players named to the this routine for the past four watch list for the John Wooden years, acquiring a reputation Women's Award, an honor as a gym rat. given annually to the top player 
"I just kind of realized with in women's college basketball. my own personal game that I'm The senior is flattered by all not one of those naturally gift­the attention, but not very con­ed athletes," Duffy said. "I've cerned with personal awards. 
got to be in the  "It's  defi­ 
gym, and I've  nitely  a  dif­ 
got to manu­facture my productivity. And I know I  "/just kind ofrealized with my own personal game that I'm not one of  ferent role for me to have these presea­son accolades  
have to get in the gym a lot to have my shot feeling  those naturally gifted athletes. I've got to be in the gym, and I've got to  coming into the season," said Duffy, who until this  
good." The hard work has paid  manufacture my productivity. "  year had played in the shadow of  
off,  as  Duffy  All-American  
has developed  Megan Duffy  Jacqueline  
into one of the nation's top  Irish point guard  Batteast. "But my biggest  
point guards.  focus is  con­ 

The second-year Irish captain centrating on the team and get­prides herself on being funda­ting us prepared for our first mentally sound in all facets of game against Michigan." the game -and she is. 
Last season, Duffy was Notre A general and a cheerleader Dame's second leading scorer Duffy is entering her second at 15.8 points per game. The season as a captain for the point guard led the Big East Irish, but head coach Muffet Conference in free throw per­McGraw says the point guard centage and steals, and sbe fin­has been playing that role ished second in the conference since she first arrived on cam­in assists, averaging 5.39 per pus. game. Duffy plays smothering "Megan has been the leader defense, dives for loose balls of the team pretty much for and can shoot with both hands. four years," McGraw said. 
The captain hopes the mani­"Even as a freshman, she festations of her work ethic will stepped in and when she was rub off on her teammates. on the floor, she was unques­
"I want to be the example for tionably the leader out there." this team," Duffy said. "If they In a testament to her leader-


ship capabilities, Duffy was voted a co-captain of the United States team that partici­pated in this summer's World University Games in Turkey. Duffy led the Americans to an undefeated record en route to a gold medal. 
Duffy said she is using her experiences from playing on the national team to help her Notre Dame teammates elevate their games. 
"I took a lot of leadership skills from it from the stand­point of managing a team of eleven all-stars," Duffy said of captaining Team USA.~''I think I honed my own skills a little bit out there. And I'm trying to relate what I learned over the summer to these girls today." 
Duffy's duties as captain are magnified this season with eight of the 12 players on Notre Dame's roster being sopho­mores or freshmen. Duffy said having so much youth changes her approach somewhat. 
"We have to make sure that they're staying confident out there because they are young," Duffy said. "We have a propen­sity some time to get down on ourselves when we make mis­takes. I have to be the general out there and also kind of being the cheerleader too because they have to stay con­fident." 
Changing roles 
With the graduation of Batteast, Notre Dame's leading scorer each of the past three seasons, Duffy will now be the focus of the Irish offense. 
"I think she is going to look to score a little bit more," McGraw said. "Certainly, we want Megan to shoot the ball as much as she can." 
Duffy is not necessarily con­centrating on upping her scor­ing but on improving across the board. 
"From the whole standpoint of my game, I'm looking to increase my stats a little bit more in each category," Duffy said. ''I'm not looking at it that I have to completely change my game, but elevate it a little more in each area." 
Coach on the court 
McGraw, a former point guard herself, has come to rely on Duffy as the coach's eyes on the court. McGraw knows she can always 
the court. 
"I think we've always had a very strong relationship," Duffy said. "Coach McGraw is one of those people that I can come in and talk to about anything bas­ketball related.or not." 
Duffy and McGraw hope to cultivate this positive relation­ship for one final season and have it translate into positive results on the floor. The pair helped guide the Irish to con­secutive NCAA Tournament Sweet 16 appearances in 2003 and 2004. 
Duffy knows the Irish, who were picked to finish third in the Big East in the coaches' preseason poll and are ranked No. 15, enter the season a little less heralded than in seasons past. But the point guard is 
optimistic 

count on her point guard to  "She really has  about her young team's  
be in the right spot and do the right thing.  developed into somebody whose opinion I really respect."  capabilities. "I think com­ing into the season there is  
"She really  a lot of uncer­ 
has developed into some­body whose  Muffet McGraw Irish head coach  tainty knowing who is going to step up for this  
opinion I real- team,"  Duffy  
ly  respect,"  said "But I'm  

McGraw said. "So a lot of times very confident with what we 
... I'll just ask her, 'What do have on the floor, and I think you think of this? What do you it's getting better every day. 
think we should do here?' And ''I'm excited to see what we just kind of get her input on have when game one comes things because she has a little along. We're a little bit under different sense of it from the the radar right now, but I think floor than we do from the we have a lot to prove." bench." 
Duffy has valued McGraw's Contact Kevin Brennan at mentorship both on and off of kbrenna4@nd.edu 
~ 

Priday, November 18, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Besides Duffy, this team has a lot of 1 ifs' 
Tlwn~·s ahout onn thing that guard. go-to-player is going to be," is t'Prtain about this Irish loam Duf'f'y is tlw corn of' this McGraw said. -Mngan l>ufTy is its point tnam. both on and ofT thn Surrouncjing Duffy will bn guard. But lwyond that, thn r.ourt. Chanrns are she will sophomore Melissa D'Amico, Irish arP going to havn to fig­havn a good snnior ynar. but junior Crystal Erwin and snn­un• a lot of' shn <~an't win ganws on her ior Courtney LaVnre in the things out if' own. post, and sophomore Tulyah t.lll~Y arn to And so tlw Irish. who havn <~ainns and junior Breona Gray haY!' 11 Sl~ll­just onn sPnior bosidns Duf'f'y. on tho pnrirnntnr. son likP tlw look to tlwir youngnr playnrs D'Amico will havn to devnlop onP of' a ynar to stl'p up and fill the void lnl't into a !'oren in the paint. Erwin ago in whirh by Battnast. Notrn Darno's go­is going to havn to score and 1hPy finislwd to scorer. LaVnre must rnturn to tho. snrond in "I think it's going to IH• a bal­playnr slw was thnw years ago llw Big l·:ast. ancl~d attack," Irish coach whnn slw was namnd to the won till• MufTnt McCraw said. "I think Big East AII-Hookie team. l'rPSI'aSOII it's going to hn a gamn-hy­Meanwhile. freshman WNIT and game go-to playnr." Lindsay Schrader, who aver­dnf'Patf'd But with this scorer-by-com­aged more than 20 points per SIWIHI mittnn philosophy. Notrn Damn game in high school, is nnndnd rankt•d opponnnts on the year. will f'acn onn problem -con­to scorn again at the next With tlw graduation of' AII­sistency. lnvPI. Shn just has to make Anwriran .Jarqunlino Battoast "I think we have a lot of' sure shn plays good enough and shot hlorknr Tnrnsa choicns, but tho question's def'onse to please McGraw. Borton. Notrn Damn has big going to be who's going to be Guards Gaines and Gray shons to fill this ynar. and it tho eonsistent one, and that's must take the pressure ofT starts with its snnior point going to detnrmino who the Duffy in the backr.ourt. with 
Gray stopping up as not only the def'ensive stopper, but a threat to score as well. 
But regardless, the Irish need someone to score, because when tho shot dock is winding down. Batteast is no longer going to be there for the Irish to find. 
"I think that it's a little dif­ferent mindset for this team, in that they're going to be called to [score! and they don't have the experience yet," McGraw her freshman year form. if But. amongst those "if's," onn said. Erwin can score. if Allen can thing is r.ertain -Duffy is the 
There are a lot of question get back to 100 percent -"if." point guard. Duffy is the marks with this team, and And so McGraw is a little loader. Duffy will be the centnr none bigger than Charel Allen, worried about this team. but around which this young team who is back from a knee injury no more than she has worrind is rebuilt. that held her out all summer. about teams in tho past. Allen was named to the Big "No, li don't think we're The opinions expressed in East All-Freshman team last where we want to bel," this column are those ofthe year, and if she can return to Mr.Graw said. "But I don't author and not those of The that form, the Irish will benefit think I've ever felt that way Observer. greatly. since Huth !Hiley's] senior year Contact 1/eather Van 
However, all of these points !when Notre Dame won the 1/oegarden at are "if's." If LaVere returns to 2001 national championship!." hvanhoeg@nd. edu 




Freshman Schrader ready to jump right in for Irish 
NO guard brings a game, but quickly settled down. guarding her, Schrader will "Af'ler a couple of' minutes I move down low.
scorer's mentality to got relaxed and started just "When a smaller guard takes getting into the flow of thn her, we are going to try to getIrish starting lineup game," she said. "I was roally her on the bloek," MeGraw excited." said. "And that's something By KEVIN BRENNAN Tho early produetivity from she's pretty comfortable doing." Sports Writer Sehradnr camn as no surpriso But the transition to college to Irish eaptain Megan Dufl'y. basketball was not a seamless Notre l>amn will miss AII­"Hight ofT the bat. wn know one f'or Sehrador. It took time Anwriean .Jacqunlirw Battoast that Lindsay is vnry talentnd," for tho froshman to adjust to in a numlwr of' ways. But thn Duff'y said "She can seoro in dif'­the pcu:n of the eollogiate game. most obvious area wlwrn fewn t ways." "I went home for fall break Baltnast's ahsnn1~n will hn f'l'll is Srhradnr scored in just about and wah:hod sonw of tho games iII t h n S I~ 0 r iII g d P partIIW ll 1.. evl'ry possihln way as a stand­from high sehool," Sr.hrader Battnast, who graduatnd in out at Bartlett lligh School in said. "I thought it was in slow May, lnd tlw Irish in points Bartll'tt, Ill. Tlw Vl'rsatiln star motion. The game is so much st·orf'd l'adJ of' tlw past th rnn playnd all fiV(1 positions during quicker when you aro at the snasons as l.lwir go-to sr.ornr. lwr l'our years at Bartlntt and eolloge level. So I think that 
Orw of' l.lw playnrs lwad coach sr.orPd in doubln figures in 114 was onn big adjustment f'or mo MufTPt Md;raw will rt>ly on to of' hnr 117 carnnr ganws. As a -tho spnod of the ganw." fill IIH• scoring void has no col­snnior, Schradnr avnragnd 22.1 But Schrador's shift to the lngiatP haskt>thall nxpnrif'rH~n -points 1wr contest and scornd nnxt lnv!d was aidnd by her frt>shman shooting guard morn than :w points in fivn dif'­confidnnrn in hor abilitins. Slw Lindsay SdtradPr. fnrnnt games. Slw was sPinctnd nnternd Notre Danw nxpnding 
"Shl''s an of'fpnsivn-mindnd to tlw MrDonald's AII-Anwrican to play right ofT tlw bat. playnr." Md;raw said of loam and was nanwd Illinois "In tho women's gamo. it is so SchradPr. "Shl''s sonwhody thai. Miss Baskntball. important that you come in is t·omf'ol'tahll' in tl11• scoring "I think ofT1msivPiy shn really with wnfidenco," McGraw said. rolf'. and that's what wn wanl camn in as a prntty complntn "ISchradorl kind of came in and hnr lo lw." playnr," McGraw said. said. 'I've got as good a chance 
Sl'ltradl'r had no problnm Standing six fnPt tall. of starting as anybody. It's time playing 1111' roll' of' SCOrl'r in lwr Sehradnr is biggnr than most to comn in and start playing first two I'Xhihition ganws. In a guards. McCraw b11lievns right away."' Nov. I win ovl'r Indianapolis, Schradnr's sizn will ernatn Thanks to that conf'idoncn, Michigan tonight at 1) p.m. nwry singln ganw. If I do that. Scltradnr rPI'ordl'd I:{ points. matt·.h up problmns f'or opposing Schrador has alrnady ac~eom­Schradnr's f'ocus, though. is tlwn I'll lw jWrf'Prtly happy with Tlw taiPnll'd guard tlwn pourl'd tnams all ynar. If shn is dnfnnd­plished hnr goal of starting in firmly snt on giving maximum my pnrformancl'. I just want to in I'J points -hitting H-of'-12 nd by a play11r as tall as slw is. hnr frnshman ynar. Slw has o!Tort and hnlping tlw Irish post play I00 pnrcmtt Pvnry singll' shots f'rom lhP liPid -in a Nov. Sdmtder should he abln to use started eaeh of tiHY two nxhibi­anothnr succi1Ssf'uf snason. ganw." I 0 vir lory owr h~rris Stall'. hnr quieknnss to bPat thn tion games and will likPiy be in "I wan to hnlp the loam as 
Sd1radPr said slw was nPrv­dnfnndnr ofl' thP dribbll'. And if' the lirwup whnn tho Irish tip-ofT mur.h as possibln," she said. "I Contact Kevin Brennan at ous at first in tlw Indianapolis a smaflnr, f'aster dnf'Pnder is the regular soason against just want to play to my ability kbrenna4@nd.edu 



-. 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 18, 2005 
table of contents 


. 
~ 


Brian Beidatsch page 10 
James Bent page 7 
Joseph Boland page 16 
James Bonelli page 17 
Craig Cardillo page 15 
Jake Carney page 8 
Dan Chervanick page 9 
David Fitzgerald page 13 
D.J. Fitzpatrick page 20 
Brandon Harris page 4 
Brandon Hoyte page 3 
Jeff Jenkins page 15 
Mark LeVoir page 5 



Corey Mays page 12 
Matt Mitchell page 16 
Marty Mooney page 9 
Michael 0 'Hara page 13 
Rashon Powers-Neal page 19 
Scott Raridon page 8 
Anthony Salvador page 11 
Nate Schiccatano page 19 
Matt Shelton page 14 
Dan Stevenson page 18 
Maurice Stovall page 6 

Rich Whitney III page 17 
Rob Woods page 11 
Fourth-year seniors with eligibility remaining pages 22-23 
QUOTING THE IRISH 

"I consider myselfvery fortunate to be in the spot where things are going right, and I expect them to continue the rest ofthe year.,, 
Brian Beldatsch defensive lineman 

"It has been a great experience for me ... I don •t really know what to feel -it's excitement, it•s sadness, a whole bunch of stuffrolled up in one. ,, 
Matt Shelton wide receiver 
"Right now, rm just trying to soak it up. rm enjoying every minute. This is one ofthe greatest opportunities any person could ever have ­to be here at Notre Dame and play for this team.,, 
Dan Chervanick defensive lineman 

Give seniors credit for ND team's progress 

Somebody tell them it's a bad dream. Somebody tell them it's just some cruel trick. Somebody tell the Notre Dame senior class of 2006 that they will be back next season, that 
they aren't real­ly leaving when they have been the ones front and center, turn­ing the tide of Notre Dame's football current. 
Unfortunately for Brandon 


Hoyte, Corey Mike Gilloon 
Mays, Maurice Stovall and the Sports Editor other 23 seniors playing their last game in Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow, they aren't coming back next season. They won't have a chance to experience how far Irish coach Charlie Weis leads this team in years to come. 
Ifnot for a couple plays against Michigan State and USC running back Reggie Bush's helpful push of quarterback Matt Leinart into the end zone, the Irish might be on the verge of a senior trip to sunny Pasadena this season. 
Much of the credit for the turn­around has to be given to Athletic Director Kevin White and the Notre Dame administration. They finally hit the jackpot with Weis. This season isn't built on luck or a forgiving schedule. Weis is a darn good football coach who has a job in South Bend as long as he wants it. His play calling is world class, and he evidently knows how to motivate college kids. 
For this success, Weis too deserves a lot of credit. 
But more of the applause for the marvelous season should be directed right at these seniors. 
When Weis was hired last December as the fourth (counting George O'Leary) Irish coach in the past five seasons, it was this class that held the team together. 
None of these men knew Weis would be a success. None of them knew whether the first-year coaching staff would abandon them, preferring to build for the future by utilizing younger players. 
None of them knew ifsticking around for their last season at Notre Dame would be worth it. 
They could have transferred to a Division 1-AA school, where their tal­ent would have assured them a start­ing role. They could have ignored their new coaches and let animosity over the public-relations fiasco of the Tyrone Willingham firing divide the team and hinder the resurgence of the program. They could have simply quit. 
But they didn't. And even ifthis season is just an appetizer for what's to come in 2006, sticking around was worth it. 
Too many recent seniors have ended their time at Notre Dame on a dreary note. 
Nick Setta, Julius Jones and the rest of the class of 2003 finished up their careers in the Carrier Dome, on the ugly end of a 38-12 score. 
Carlyle Holiday and his class of 2004 fell to Walt Harris and Pittsburgh in their fmal home game last season. 
Even the 1993 team-whose 31­24 win over Florida State was one of the few games in Irish history that can match the excitement of this sea­son's near-upset of USC -walked out of Notre Dame Stadium in tears after being booted by David Gordon and Boston College. 
There should be no tears this week­end -at least no tears of frustration. These seniors have nothing to regret about their time at Notre Dame. 
Yes, they spent four years wonder­ing why their talent wasn't being used properly and if the administra­tion would ever fmd a coach who could handle the massive expecta­tions under the Golden Dome. But they've done something so monu­
. mental it overshadows any past fail­ure. They've set the foundation for a championship. If these seniors didn't stay, this team would have fallen apart. Without the leadership of Hoyte and Mays, the Irish aren't 7-2. Without the strength and heart of Mark LeVoir and Dan Stevenson, Notre Dame's offense flounders; it doesn't flourish. Without every one of these seniors, the negativity that surrounded this program in December keeps Weis from winning like he has. Next season, Notre Dame will be on television every weekend, favored in most every game. But Levoir won't be there. He might be at home, resting up for his NFL game just like Stovall, Boyte, Mays, Stevenson and D.J. Fitzpatrick hope to be. Craig Cardillo intends on going to San Diego to fulfill his Naval ROTC commitment. Matt Shelton might be working a desk job for the University. Jeff Jenkins wants to be earning a paycheck from the FBI. Weis is loading up the car, ready to drive Notre Dame back to national prominence. And these seniors, instead of buckling up and settling in for the ride, can only watch. But that's O.K. for them. They filled up the tank. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 


.----------------------------------------------------­Friday, November 18, 2005 The Observer + IRISH INSIDER page 3 
BRANDON HOYTE 
Poetic -warrior 
Notre Dame's hard-hitting defensive captain has led the team in play and in attitude 
By PAT LEONARD 
Spom Writer 
i\t first glanee, this is the story of two m1m. 
One is a Division I football playnr with 261 earner tackles and a knack for making the big play. lin's in his fourth year playing linebacker, and lw hits as hard as some of the pros. 
The SIH:­oml is a eol­lngn stu­dent, quint and rnsnrvnd. who dons his best thinking with a pnn and a pad of papnr. lin altm1ds bonlirns to rPr.i tn poetry and dons corn rnu­nity snrvien. 
ll's intnn\sting that at sneond glance, tlw two nwn are thn samn pPrson. It's fitting that lillh-y111tr senior Brandon lloyte -multitalented and rnspertnd -was nanwd Notrn Damn's dPfPnsiv11 c:aptain wlwn coach Charlie W11is took ovnr for the :wo;, snason. 
"lin may sm1111 quint to nvnry­orw 1dse, but orw11 lw puts the pads on, puts the lwlmet on. hn's a diiTnnmt person," Notre l>anw quartnrback Brady Quinn said W11drwsday. 
(}uil1tly, lloyte (5-I<HJt-11, 235 pounds) has beeonw a forceful I!Htdnr for thn Irish defense. Playing lwhind and alongside departed linebaeknrs like Courtney Watson. Mikn Goolsby, Hoeky Boirnan, Tyrno Harrison -nv1m living with Dnrek Curry -the Parlin, N.J. native has grown through experience and irwxpnrinnce, in game situa­tions and in a red-shirt fresh­man season. 
Going into the fall, Hoyle rnadn the preseason Butkus /\ward watch list to honor to nation's top collegiate line-


backer. lie was named a Lott and of how lloyte would Trophy quarter-finalist last bocome their leader. week in honor of on-and ofT­"I think II lead! first and fore­field performance. most by producing on the 
But Iloyte -the player and lield," lloyte said. "You can say the poet -doesn't lead a dou­what you want, but you have to ble-life. He just lives a complete produce." one. Iloyte leads the team in tack­
"Anything you would ever ask les this season with 56 (33 for in a model football player, solo). lie has four sacks and student-athlete and person and 11.5 tackles for loss -five captain is what he is," defen­more than the next closest sive coordinator Hiek Minter play1u, defensive end Vietor said Wednesday. "lie's our i\biarniri. lloyte is averaging coach on the field. make no eight tackles per game and on mistake about it." pace to shatter his previous 
season-high of 74 (2003 and Erik, remember me? 2004), But he always shifts his 
On seeond-and-eight, from its eoneentration away from previ­own 32-yard line with less than ous accomplishments when he 30 seconds remaining in the discusses his football career. sneond quarter, Tennnssee lined Following last season's 6-6 up in the shotgun. Volunteers finish, for exampln, Iloytn said coach Phillip Fulmer would outright he did not play his best rngrnt the play eall. and that he was glad he had 
Tennessee quart~lrbaek Erik another year to rectify it. Now, i\inge fumbled the with only four snap, and as he regular snason seramblnd to "1/e may seem games and a pos­f'IH:over, lloyte sible bowl berth
quiet to everyone
stPamrolled into looming on the th11 baek11old and else, but once he horizon of' his drilled i\inge, puts the pads on, days wearing No. falling to the turf 39, lloytn rel'usos
puts the helmet on,
hard with an still to give a final
he's a dij]'erent
orange jersey evaluation. 
bmwath him. person. "I'd say II'm] i\inge had a not l'inished separatl~d right because the sea­
Brady Quinn 

shoulder. Notre son's not fin­
Irish co-captain 
l>an111 had the ished," lloyte said momentum and, Wednesday when eventually, a 17-asked to assnss 13 road win in Knoxville, Tenn. his career's progress. "Gamn to On Nov. 6 of' last season, Boyte game, I see myself' getting bet­made his presence known with tnr." a devastating and nearly sea­son-saving hit. A way with words 
"You don't just hit people to Hoyle strives to improve in tackle them," lloyte said follow­other endeavors, as well, but ing the game. "You taekle them they present different obsta­so they won't get back up." des. In football, for example, 
The Irish would lose to you can't run out of ink. Pittsburgh the following week, lloyte writes poetry in his eliminating the possibility of a spare time and even recites it strong finish to the season. But publicly, proving that when Hoyte had set the tone of how people or teammates label him the Irish defense should play -as "quiet," they don't mean he keeps to himself. They mean he is thoughtful and both soft-and well-spoken. 


"lie's one of' thoso guys who I think is obviously quiet, I wouldn't say soft spoken,". Quinn said, searching for words to accurately describe his co­captain. "But at the same time when he speaks I think every­one listens because of ... his passion." 
The linebacker's passion and empathy rub off on the people he has worked with off the field ever since he arrived in South Bend. 
On Oct. 5, Hoyte joined a group of fellow Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students for a bon­fire at the soccer field behind Angela Athletic Center. 1-Ioyte recited two original poems to the group. He has been writing poetry since junior high school. 
On April 28, Iloyte was the featured speaker for the Literary Council of St. Joseph's County's eighth annual Luncheon for Literacy. 
"He was wonderful to work with," said Brenda Green­O'Connell, the council's execu­tive director. "lie's such a gen­erous person." 
In a nationwide sports atmos­phere of scandal and debate, athletes like Iloyte seem to bridge the gap of understand­ing. His tendency to mingle with any person -athlete or non-athlete -makes him a natural favorite of those he runs into, those he has class with and those he takes snaps with. 
The only question remains: how many pnople in tho world can knock a quarterbaek out ol' a game and also writn poetry regularly? 
"I would say it's a normal person, to be honest with you," lloyte said, laughing at any hint that's my way to hav11 fun and my way to gnt away. "I gnt away from lil'e when I get onto the football field, and I get away from life when I writn poetry." 
Closing out 
Getting on with life after Notre Dame should not be any more dif'ficult for lloyte. 
Whether he continues a foot­ball career or puts his 3.35 GP/\ to use, the man on the wnak side of the Irish linebacking corps has set himself and the Irish up perfectly. 
On the field, opposing players have criticized Hoyte's speed. He is not the tallest player, either. But his vocal leadership and hard hitting contribute to new respect teams have for Notre Dame's defense-a team with 16 turnovers forced in seven games. 
"We don't take him off tho field," Weis said Tuesday. "lie's earned our trust as the most dependable guy we have in all situations." 
So maybe, as the saying goes, lloyte is not a warrior poet at all. lie is, instead, a poetic war­rior, writing his final verse. 
The Volunteers are in town, and Notre Dame's defensive captain has three home games remaining to close out what has been -but what he won't yet admit to be -a memorable career, on and oil' the field. 
"I don't think you can nver sell yourself short with nll'ort," lloytn said. "I think that's one I've learned over the ynars playing this ganw is that somn­times efl'ort beats talent, some­times nfTort beats smarts. 
"i\nd I hope that at thn end of the day pnopln say, 'You know, what? That kid plays really, really hard." 
Brandon Hoyte, center, leaps over a pile of Michigan State players on Sept. 17. In his spare time, of abnormality in the situation. Contact Pat Leonard at Hoyte writes poetry, does community service and maintains a 3.35 GPA. "I just like having fun, and pleonard@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 18. 2005 
BRANDON HARRIS 

Soul of a musician: Harris chose ND for fine arts 
By KEVIN BRENNAN Sports Writer 
Brandon Harris came to Notre Dame to perform, but not on the football field. 
Harris took up the violin at age six and chose Notre Dame for the sterling rep­utation of its m u s i c department rather than the historic mystique of its football program. 
Harris starred on the gridiron at Benjamin Harris High School in New Orleans, La., playing running back, wide receiver and defensive back and earning team MVP hon­ors his senior year. He contem­plated playing football in college at a smaller program like Davidson College in North Carolina, but was not offered any scholarships. 
"I was debating between going to college for music or going to college to play football," Harris said. "But in the end I chose to go to college for music." 
Harris came to Notre Dame and focused on the violin, initially pur­suing a major in musical perform­ance and eventually switching to music theory. But soon his thoughts drifted to football again. 
"I went to the football games, and it was so exciting," Harris said. "I just wanted to go out there and play at that moment." 

In the second semester of his sophomore year, Harris decided to try to walk on to the football team. He hadn't put on a helmet since his senior year of high school, not even playing interhall football. 
"It wasn't too hard getting back into it because I had still been working out," Harris said. "But, yeah, it was hard moving my body up to speed to the level of college football." 
Harris, who has 4.4 speed in the 40-yard dash, made the team as a receiver. He chose wideout over defensive back, feeling he was more experienced on the offensive side of the ball. 
Harris was immediately impressed with the treatment of the walk-ons by both the coaches and the scholarship players. 
"Basically, the life of the walk­on is similar to the life of everyone else," Harris said. "You do the same things as everyone else. When you first come in, you get thrown right in basically." 
To his own surprise, Harris played in one game in 2004. With the Irish leading lowly Washington 38-3 late in the fourth quarter, Harris saw 1:24 of action at receiver. While not recording any receptions, he was thrilled to see actual game time. 
"I was real excited to be out there," Harris said. "I just had no idea what it would feel like out there. I finally got out there and had a good time." 

Since Charlie Weis replaced for­mer head coach Tyrone Willingham, Harris has moved from receiver to cornerback. During 2005 spring practice, talk spread that Harris could possibly contribute as a kick returner and defensive back. 
The coaching staff was so impressed with Harris that they granted him a scholarship before the start of his senior season. Harris said he was shocked by the offer. 
"It was so exciting getting the scholarship because, for one, it made my parents happy and it made me really happy, feeling that all my hard work had finally paid off," Harris said. 
Harris entered the 2005 season listed as a starting kick returner on the depth chart. In the season opener at Pittsburgh, Harris returned one kickoff for 11 yards. In the home opener against Michigan State, Harris returned another two kickoffs for 42 yards. 
"I was having a whole lot of fun going out there and being with the team," Harris said. "Every week it's a challenge, but at the same time it's so thrilling." 
Harris has since fallen on the depth chart as freshmen receivers David Grimes and D.J. Hord are currently the first team kick returners. Harris is not upset about losing his starting job. 
"No, I'm not disappointed," Harris said. "I know the coach is doing what's best for the team, and you just have to wait your turn." 

But Harris still has his first love -music -to rely on. Harris plans on pursuing a career in music after graduating, possibly as a composer of film scores. 
"I love composing music," Harris said. "I do it ill my spare time. I'm pretty good at it. I can see myself doing that in the future at some point." 
Wherever Harris goes in life, he says he will always treasure his memories of the 2005 football season. 
''I'm going to be really happy to say that I was a part of something that was really special, something that I can always look back on and remember, something that I can be really proud of." 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 

Accepting Reservations for Post-Game Dining 
Outdoor Dining: Outdoor Grill On the Weekends 

Live Entertainment: Some of the 
Best Blues, Jazz &Classic Rock 
219 N. Front Street in the area 
Niles, Ml 49120 
269-684-2233 

www. ni lesriverfrontcafe. com Great menu featuring gourmet 
Soups, Salads, Sandwiches,
**Located in downtown Niles 10 minutes from the University Pizzas &Baked Pastas 
Serving Espresso Drinks and the Cafe's own Specialty Drinks 
Art Gallery &Gift Shop 
Friday, November 18, 2005 page 5 
The Observer + IRISH INSIDER 
MARK LEVOIR 
Keeping guard 
Offensive tackle Mark LeVoir is no stranger to protection, ofhis quarterback and his family 
By MIKE GILLOON 
Sports Edi1nr 
Taking earn of others tends to come naturally to Mark 
I.eVoir. 
lin is the most experienced player on an offensive line that has giv1HJ Irish q u a r t ~~ r ­back Brady ()uinn time to throw for 2 7 toueh­downs and 2,'131 pass­ing yards this sea­s o n . II n h as lwl p n d d e a r dPfnnders out of the way for Notre Damn running backs Darius Walker and Travis Thomas to run for I02S total yards. lin nvnn gives Irish tight end and follow Minnesotan .John Carlson rides to the airport. 
But growing up. the s1mior Notre Damn ofTensivn tackle kPpt watch over someone rloser to him than any team­mate -his brother Andy, who has Down syndrome. 
"Andy's older than me, but I felt likn I was the oldnr broth­er," l.nVoir said. "We'd take him out, do stuff and watch him. I'd just really look out for h i m w l11~ n we were out playing with othnr kids h~~ eau s e t h n y d i d n 't reaII y understand he has Down syn­dronw. Tlwy know he's differ­ent, just bneausn of physical features and stuff. You havn 


to watch out for him and stick with Coach [Hubenl up for him." Mendoza's strength and con­
LeVoir has learned well ditioning on down the line, from his brother on how to especially with Ioffensive line I stick up for someone. Coach [.John! Latina, who's 
The Irish right tackle has come in here and taught me a started every game since the lot of things and Coach Weis, 2003 season opener against as well. Just the experience of Washington State and is cur­having played a couple of rently teaming with left tackle years ... each year you just Hyan llarris, guards Dan keep getting better and bet­Stevenson and Dan Santucci ter, or hope to at least." and centers John Sullivan and Bob Morton to vault Notre High school standout Dame's offense to one of its With 33 career starts and most productive seasons in the team's current No. 6 recent mnmory. national ranking, LeVoir's 
The Irish are averaging just Notre Dame career has to be under 39 points through nine considered a success. But he contests in 2005. also had plenty of experience 
"ILeVoirl is just command­with winning during his time ing the oiTnnsive line," Irish at Eden Prairin High School running back Darius Walker outside of Minneapolis. said. "lie's just an overall LeVoir led his team to the leader. and he understands 2000 Minnesota class 5A state the game so well. It's just title with a win over Cretin­great to have him out there." Durham llall. a team that fea­
Despite this praise, LeVoir tured current Irish players feels thorn's a lot of room to Hashon Powers-Neal, Hyan 
improve. Tlwre  llarris  and  
are  still  two  Marcus  
regular  soason  "/LeVoir/ is just  Freeman.  
games left on tho slate and, he hopes, a major bowl  commanding the offensive line. lie's just an overall leader  In the 13-0 season that led up to that championship  
game  in  the  and he understands  win,  LeVoir  
future. "We just have  the game so well. "  caught four touchdowns  
to  keep improv­ and  also  
ing, keep sharp­ening it up and hopefully be the  Darius Walker Irish running back  recorded 156 p a n c a k e blocks playing  
top  ofl'ensive  not tackle, but  

line at the end of the season," tight end. LeVoir said. "I think I've This play attracted the improved a lot from last year. attention of former Irish A lot of that credit can start coach Bob Davie, whose staff 


recruited LeVoir and then moved him to tackle in fall practice his freshman year. 
LeVoir didn't see the field in 2001 but played tackle for eight games in 
fessor James McKenna during his freshman year. Tlw tackle wasn't too thrilled with the business track he was on and McKonna enc.ouraged him to takn a few 
2002 under for­anthropology mer Irish coach "Every weekend coursns. T y r o n e "It was inter­
you're playing 
Willingham. nsting, it was
against the top talent
Athletic enough more nnjoyable to play full­in the country, and I to me." LeVoir back, wide said of tlw sub­
wanted to measure 
receiver, full­ject that would
myse(fagainst that." 
back and become his punter in addi­major. "You tion to his reg­Mark leVolr could pick and ular duties as a choose dasses.
Irish offensive lineman 
tight end in It wasn't as high school, structured. This LeVoir moved to guard in is a great liberal arts school 2003, starting every game so I thought. 'Woll I might as that season. lie then made well do something I enjoy one final switeh back to tack­instead of regretting it twery le for the past two seasons. day."' 
Despite all of' this move­Later adding a second ment, LcVoir seems to have major in eomputer applica­found a home at right tackle, tions, LeVoir isn't sure what opposite fellow Minnesotan he wants to do after hn leaves and left tackle Hyan Harris. It Notre Dame and possibly, a is for this stability and other career in thn NFL. reasons that he is happy he "I don't know," LnVoir said. made the decision to come to "My dad has a dngrne in Notre Dame. chemistry and he's never 
"It's a plaee I've always done onn thing with ehnm­wanted to go," Levoir said. istry in his whole life. lin's in "It's the total package. Every sales now. I decided I might weekend you're playing as well do something I nnjoy." against the top talent in the Predicted by most experts country and I wanted to to be a selection in next measure myself against that." April's NFL draft, LnVoir 
And that state ehampi­again has a lot of hefty expne­onship game? LeVoir says it tations placed on him -just really hasn't been an issue like he did as a blue-chip sinee he became a teammate, prospect corning out of high not an opponent, of Powers­school. But it doesn't appear Neal, Harris and Freeman. LeVoir is too impressed with 
"I joke with them every now himself to bn willing to take it and then," LeVoir said. "It easy. was high school, it's not like "All lthn honors from high it's a big deal." s c h o o I nw a n t I t h a t I had 
potential." LnVoir said. Versatile In the classroom "Potential doesn't really mean 
All of Le Voir's versatility on anything, you've got to make the football field is reflected your potential." in his interests in the class­room. Beginning college as a business major, LeVoir Contact Mike Gillon at befriended anthropology pro-mgilloon@nd.edu 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 18, 2005 
MAURICE STOVALL 

Welcome to Motown 
The veteran receiver has trimmed down and stepped up as a leader of a potent offense 
consistently on a basis with the reversed roles, wiping the 
By PAT LEONARD 

type of offense that we have." smiles one-by-one off opposing Sports Writer 
Maybe that explains why defenders' faces. Stovall is on pace to catch more The senior receiver has 42 
When Notre Dame proclaimed passes this season (63) than he catches in eight games for 666 its 'Return to Glory' three sea­did in his first three seasons total yards, an average of 15.9 sons ago, Maurice Stovall -a combined (61). Maybe it yards per catch, second only to freshman -involuntarily explains why he's caught the Jeff Samardzija (17 .2). Stovall's became the face of the cam­same amount of touchdowns 83.2 yards per game average paign. through eight games (six) that also establishes him as an 
Sports he did from 2002 to 2004. immediate threat to upcoming Illustrated Or maybe it has nothing to do opponents. · threw a with football. But catching more passes was photo of only half the battle. Stovall Stovall's Through the grapevine climbed back not only into a touchdown "Mo" is old school. His team­regular rhythm -he always c a t c h mates tell him, and he knows it. played significant minutes ­against The description doesn't fit his but into a complete receiver. Michigan personality, though, as much as State on its it fits his musical tastes. But A firm stance front cover. then maybe again it does Samardz~ja broke two records Everyone in the country could describe Stovall's personality in Notre Dame's win against identify the tall wide receiver since, as running back Darius Tennessee last Saturday. Strong from Philadelphia. Walker puts it, "Off the field and safety Tom Zbikowski scored 
The hype around the program even on the field, Mo is a two return touchdowns. But grew. The profile of Stovall grew singer." Irish coach Charlie Weis had even larger -he had been a Stovall constantly keeps a only one favorite individual per­first-team USA Today All­tune, and not only in his head. formance after reviewing the American in high school. And The senior receiver takes his game tape. then, with no warning and only vocals and his smooth attitude "The guy I was pleased with the infantile SI curse to blame, from the shower to the locker the most was actually Maurice the Irish and Stovall both sank room to the practice field, rang­Stovall," Weis said at his Sunday off the national radar. ing in musical tastes from Barry press conference. "He only had 
For three seasons, Stovall was White to Marvin Gaye to the a couple catches on the game a prominent player in an unpro­Temptations and beyond. and one for a touchdown, but he ductive offense, catching just six "He'll throw on ... all sorts of made several critical blocks in total touchdowns. He swears the things from back in the day," this game and ended up leading cover photo had nothing to do Walker said. us to having production. with his performance. It's this laid-back attitude, Sometimes we single out stat 
"It didn't put any pressure on combined with a resilient work guys rather than things that me at all," Stovall said. "You ethic, that makes Stovall a well­happen in a game that help us can't allow stuff like that to liked and respected member of win." affect you." the Irish squad. At two turning points in the 
No matter now. In his senior Since playing at Archbishop win over the Volunteers, Stovall season, Stovall has morphed Carroll in Philadelphia, Stovall made key blocks to free up big into a tough, lean receiver who said he has always brought the -plays for Notre Dame. can pose mismatches and same attitude to football and to Stovall made the final block exploit defensive backs with his life -he has fun and works that sprung tight end Anthony 6-foot-5 frame. And don't let the hard. Fasano for Notre Dame's first sudden production fool you. "Every time we see him, he's touchdown of the contest. He Stovall insists the player he is singing," Walker said. "Every also helped pave the way for now has been in South Bend all time we're at practice, he's Samardzija on a 73-yard com­along. singing. And it really helps to pletion down to the Tennessee 
"I don't think you can just sort of create a calm atmos­2-yard line. have everything really thrown phere for us. It's not so serious And Walker said Stovall's role into one season," Stovall said. all the time. in those plays must not go unno­"It's basically a build up of "It's really good to be able to ticed. order for it to be a big play, I spring practice. maturity from your freshman let go a little bit and to play "The receiver's block is ... not think the receivers have to get "My weight loss has been a year. And ... because of the around a little bit in the huddle. only important for me, but it's the blocks. factor in my change of play, but changing of our program, Even sometimes in the games important for the other "Whenever you see me run­that's not everything," Stovall [you're] given more opportunity he'll joke around." receivers as they're running ning down the sideline or I tight said. "That's not it. I think a lot to showcase your skills and your But once the huddle has bro­their routes," Walker said. "In end Anthony] Fasano running of people think that the reason talents and be able to do that ken this season, Stovall has order for a play to work and in down the sideline, that means I'm doing so well is just because 
one of the receivers made their of my weight. It's not that at all. block." It's a buildup of things mentally, 
Stovall's example on the field physically and emotionally." has caused players like Walker lie has proven that he, as an to view him as a leader. And the experienced senior, can use production -be it catching those emotions to benefit him­passes or planting defenders on self and the Irish on the field. their backs -could have NFL "When you see a player like scouts licking their chops for a that, it really rubs off on every­proven 6-foot-5 threat. body else," Walker said. 
Stovall, though, said his focus But some of the emotion remains at Notre Dame -for sneaks out in the form of song, now. and Walker is not as quick to 
"I think about [the NFLJ some­throw praise Stovall's way. times but not a lot," he said. "Be thinks he's a good singer. ''I'm just basically trying to He's an alright singer in my enjoy the rest of my college sea­opinion, but he really thinks he's son with my teammates, this a good singer," the running back great facility here, this campus said. "You know how those guys and then we'll take it from are when they really think they there." can do something? They sort of 
overdo it." A lighter option But after shrugging off early 
Stovall's sudden resurgence career setbacks, Stovall now has provoked numerous conjec­easily dispatches of any criti­tures on its origin. Some, as cism. Stovall suggested, credit Weis' "No, I don't think I'm a good prolific offense. Some credit singer," Stovall said, a wink all quarterback Brady Quinn. But but implied. "My teammates Stovall is sick of hearing how his d0. " weight affects his play following the well-documented story of 




Wide receiver Maurice Stovall stretches to catch a deep pass from quarterback Brady Quinn Weis telling Stovall to drop a few Contact Pat Leonard at against Michigan State on Sept. 17. pounds at the beginning of pleonard@nd.edu 
Friday, November 18, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
JAMES BENT 
Bent was 'caught up in the moment' at Heinz Field 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
Thorn were a littln more than nino minutes lnl't in the game, and l'iltsburgh had just puntod the ball baek to Notre Dame. With the Irish leading 42-21, e o a e h Charlie Wnis and tho eoaeh­ing staff decidod to put in sonw r e s o r v e offensive playors. 
And that was how .lames Bent finally got on the finld for the Irish. 
The walk-on senior eenter linod up ovnr tho ball and snappnd it to back up quartor­haek David Wolke. Wolke hand­od off to Travis Thomas, who ran for nino yards ofT the right sido, giving Bnnt the first offieial playing time of his career. 
"Corning off to thn sideline after tlw rirst series I was in, somo of the guys who play a lot worn really happy to see me and somn of the other guys, who havo working so long, rinally get in thn game," Bnnt said. "I got caught up in it li~r a second, but thnn we got the ball haek and I had to go baek in again." 
Thn Irish offnnso returned to the field charged with the task of running out the eloek, but thanks to a long run by Wolke, they advanecd the ball all the way to the 4-yard line before the game ended. 


"I was lined up when the eloek ran out, so I had my hand on the ball," Bent said. "When the whistle blew, I looked up and it finally dawned on me that I had just played at I Ieinz Field. It was kind of surreal." 
Bent has played in live more games this year. He was on the field for his first touehdown drive during the Purdue game. 
Bent grew up in the South Bend area and graduated from Mishawaka High Sehool. His father and two of his brothers attended Notre Dame. 
Still, it wasn't a foregone con­elusion that he would play for the Irish. Bent considered play­ing football at Butler, DePauw and Washington University in St. Louis and even took a reeruiting trip to Stanford. 
But in the end, nowhere com­pared to Notre Dame. 
"The /'aet that both my father and brothers went here, and the opportunities that Notre Dame opens up later in life, I just felt it was the best option for me," Bent said. 
During his visit to Stanford, Bont met Tyrone Willingham, who would later beeome his coaeh for three years at Notre Dame. 
"I went out [to Stanford) when he was coach, then I got an award in high school where he was the keynote speaker," Bent said. "Then I had a meeting with him talking about walking on, and then I got a letter in the summer inviting me to fall eamp." 
Bent toiled on the scout team for three seasons, an experi­ence he said made him a better person and football player. 
"I think that being on the scout team and then finally my senior year getting on the field made me realize that not every­thing in life comes easily," he said. "Plus going against the starting defense makes you a better player. I've gotten a chance this year to play in five games and I don't think I would have been able to if I'd just been in the baek somewhere." 
Bent, who is majoring in mar­keting, has had several inter­views about possible jobs after graduation. 
''I'm interviewing with a few companies," Bent said. "I'm seeking a position in marketing or just business somehow, maybe consulting." 
But Bent said he's looking outside the region. 
''I'd like to get out of the South Bend-Mishawaka area," he said. "I love the area, but I feel like J should get out for a while." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

Did you work for The Observer? 
The Observer will be celebrating its 40th Anniversary with a reunion during the weekend of the Blue 8: Gold Game this spring. We would love for you to attend. 
Please contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu for more information. 
Friday, November 18. 2005

page 8 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
SCOTT RARIDON 

Husband, father and teammate: Raridon does it all 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 
Scott Raridon knows about responsibility. 
He's a husband, a father and a senior offensive lineman for Notre Dame to boot. 
A mem­ber of the small group of married college ath­1 e t e s , Raridon said his family sup­ports his playing football, and he enjoys the tiring life of a football player and family man. 
"For me, it's fulfilling because I feel like the bread­winner almost from [playing football] because I get like a stipend and I'm paying for edu­cation through it," he said. "So, I feel more motivation to ... be successful in school and in football. And then when I come home at the end of the day to see them and have my son scream my name and run over to me is very satisfying." 
Raridon is a scholarship backup center and long snap­per for the Irish. 
He said he uses football les­sons as life lessons, incorporat­ing what he finds on the field into his personal life. He said one of those lessons came after the first game he ever played. 


In Sept. of 2003, Notre Dame faced Washington State, and Raridon had been promoted to starting long snapper. 
"It was my first game ever playing and on my first field goal snap, I looked between my legs and I got really nervous, and I biffed the snapped, and Nick Setta ended up missing the kick," Raridon said. 
He said what transpired the rest of the afternoon restored his confidence and gave him reason to come back and try even harder. Setta converted his next four field goal attempts in regulation, then hit the game winner in overtime, for a school-record five field goals in one game. 
"So that kind of taught me that sometimes in football you screw up, but you've got to come back and keep going, because they're going to need you later on," Raridon said. "And so, to come back and snap one in overtime for the game winner, after having my first one being a dud, that was something that taught me a life lesson and a lot about football, too." 
That would not be the only game-winning field goal that Raridon snapped in 2003. In Nov., he sent the ball back on D.J. Fitzpatrick's 40-yard game-winning field goal 
against Navy to extend Notre Dame's winning streak over the Midshipman to 40. 
Raridon said that was one of the most gratifying moments of his football career. 
"It was very satisfying for me to feel like I actually helped in the win," he said. "A lot of the times I'm just snapping extra points and stuff like that, so you really don't feel like you did a whole lot as much as like Brady or Zbikowski or those guys. But that game, it felt rea1ly good. I tell you what, I was really nervous, but after it was over, the feeling was irre­placeable." 
But Raridon knows not every moment of his football life is as rewarding as that, and he said sometimes he wishes he could spend more time with his fami­ly. 
"Sometimes there are days when I just want to go home and be with my family, and it hurts me a little bit to not be able to be there with them," he said. "But, at the same time, they are supportive, because they know how much good it's doing for us and our family getting the degree and getting the experience for the future." 
He is a management major in the college of business and credits Irish coach Charlie Weis with bringing a busi­nesslike mentality to the team. Looking back at his time at Notre Dame, Raridon said he is happy he made the decision to it will -I'll be better off for come to Notre Dame. coming here." 

"I know this was the right decision because I know that if football doesn't work out [as a Contact Ken Fowler at profession] -and I don't think kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
JAKE CARNEY 

Off-the-field moments most meaningful for Carney 
was on the field for Tom 
By KYLE CASSILY Zbikowski's punt return for a 

Sports Writer 

touchdown and the ensuing end­zone celebration. He said the 
Irish defensive back Jake moment will stick with him for­Carney has excelled in athletics ever. his entire life, including football, "I think that's as fun a moment basketball and track, but the as any play on the field," Carney senior recognizes no greater said. "It's a party with your influence on teammates. It's a great feeling, his accom­because you get to experience it plishments with these guys that you've than his worked so hard with." family. Carney was highly recruited 
His father coming out of Lexington Catholic was a line­High School in Kentucky as he backer and played on both sides of the ball later a team and special teams. Numerous doctor for Big-10 and Pac-10 schools gave the Air him offers, but, in the end, it F o r c e came down to Michigan, Academy. His uncle was a wide Stanford and Notre Dame. receiver at UCLA. Both men "You got the academics, you have been his greatest role mod­got the athletics, you got the els throughout his life. social atmosphere, the spiritual 
"Both of them did very well at atmosphere in both places," football, but always stressed the Carney said of his decision, full package," Carney said. which came down to Notre "They always pushed me as Dame and Stanford. "But noth­strongly towards academics and ing compares to the feeling you social issues and that kind of get stepping on this campus. Stadium and the locker room, Within the year, Carney's class was the only option left to him. thing better than, maybe, at That sealed it. It had everything Carney has forged unbreakable will go its separate ways, but the "The games will always be times, more than football, itself. else I was looking for, it felt bonds with his teammates. memories he has had with them memorable and the pep rallies I think they really taught me to extremely right." "We're not always the ones will remain. will always be memorable, but just try to excel at everything as The on-field rewards of play­making the plays on the field, He recalls a moment from his nothing beats everyday coming hard as you can, because you ing for Notre Dame will never but when we do get on the field, freshman year during the win­into the locker room and goofmg really never know what you're leave Carney, but it is the off­we do our best to make plays ter's first snow storm, one early off with your buddies and play­going to be best at when it field friendships with teammates and have the opportunity to morning when he and his class­ing around with your buddies comes down too it." that will truly stick with him. make plays," he said of his fel­mates had just left a study hall and going out with your buddies 
On the field, the swift defen­He initially met many of his low upperclassmen. "I have a together. A snowball fight erupt­and doing everything with your sive player thrives on special future teammates during the blast with it. The amount of ed between them and the buddies," Carney said. "I think teams. He has been a steady Army-All America Bowl his sen­leadership, it's just amazing. women's softball team. that's what I'll definitely miss contributor on Irish kickoff, kick ior year of high school, where he Helping guys academically, help­"We were getting it put to us the most, the people and the return and punt teams, the roomed with future collegiate ing guys socially, helping guys pretty badly," he said. relationships I made here." stage for his most memorable star Maurice Clarett. From those on the field where you can, Soon nearby male dorms had football moment. first meetings, through countless we're a tight knit group every­emptied to join in the fight on 
Carney started on special grueling summer workouts, to where." the quad, and the football fresh­Contact Kyle Cassity at teams Oct. 15 against USC and celebrations in Notre Dame The season is nearing its end. man knew a last-ditch charge kcsasily@nd.edu 



Friday, November 18, 2005 The Observer + IRISH INSIDER page 9 DAN CHERVANICK 
Inspiration comes from many places for Chervanick 
By KATE GALES 
Associall' Sports Editor 
l>an Clwrvanirk is only one man. 
But tlw scmior dPI'Pnsivn linP­man is also an accounting honor studnnt and aetivn volun­tcH•r who makns limn for a social lif'n outsidn thn football tnam. 
I: o r (:twrvan ick, it's hard to hdic~vn lw's re~adwd thn nnd or his timn on tlw storind finlds or Notre• Damn Stadium. 
"Bight now I'm just trying to soak it up," hn said. ''I'm nnjoy­ing it nvnry minutn. This is orw of' tlw grnatnst opportunities any IH'I'Son could Pvnr havn ­to lw hPrn at Notre~ Damn and play for this tnam." 
1\lt.hough Jw's played primari­ly on t.hn scout t.c~ams, CIH•rvanic~k saw timn at tlw Insight Bowl last snason and this snason against BYU and Navy. lin ronsidnrs th~ highlight of his eanwr to bn rncording two tacklns against Navy on Nov. 12 in a 42-21 Irish win. 
Playing for a scout tnam is a difTcmmt sort of challnnge for Clwrvaniek, thn valedietorian of lloly Name lligh School in Hnading, Pa.. who was named to the all-aeadmnic team as well as all-league offensive tackle and defensive interior lineman in Bnrks County. Pa. 
"You don't specialize in one 


thing-you're kind of a jaek­of-all-tradns," Chervanick said. "You know how to do every­thing all right so you've got to bn able to adapt." 
Although Chervaniek has playnd in several games, he focuses on praetiens in order to makn his impact on the tnam. 
"From my perspective, the way I look at it. my game day isn't nnenssarily Saturday," hn said. "My game day is Tuesday, Wednesday. Thursday at prac­tice. That's the attitude I take to 
it... There has been morn to Clwrvani<:k's exporienee than what happnns on thn field. "The best nxperhmen I've had is getting to mnet all the guys on tho tnam and really develop­ing f'rinndships -that's been one of' tlw one of' the greatest things," he said. "It's those guys you went through the hard timns, tho training camp. the early-morning lil'ting, whnn you'rn going through that it's likn going through a war togotlwr. You really bond together and thn bonds l'vn made through that. that's tho best thing about it." !\side from bonding with the team, eoadws havn had a big inl'luenen on Chorvaniek's lif'n, especially former dPI'ensivo line coaeh Greg Mattison, who Chorvaniek said "took me under his wing." Another important influence has been family. Ilis parents drive out from eastern Pennsylvania for the home gamns -he calls them "his rock" through the more difficult times. Chervanick's brother Mike 
was a walk-on at the Univnrsity of Pittsburgh and encouraged him to try out for tho Notre Dame squad. Chervankk turned down an offer to play football at (;oorgctown to eome to South Bend and made the team at the end of his frnshman year. 
"I wanted to come here and see how tho academies were," Chervaniek said. "It was col­loge, I didn't know what to expect ... II thought! if it's a workload I can handle I'm going to go out for the team. 1\nd I went out and I made it and it's been a great experi­ence." 
Academies have been a prior­ity for Chervaniek, who intnrned in public accounting in New York last summer and plans to pursun an MS!\ dogrno. 
"You learn to multitask and manage your time so quickly when you're on such a rogi­mented sdwdule ... I'm two wenks ahead of everything in terms of thinking," he said. "You're always thinking ahead, planning ahead and just trying to stay ahnad of t!H~ gamn, knep your head above water." 
The former resident of Stanford, who now lives ofT­campus with friends from the dorm that include a cheerleader and one of the head football managers, realized the impor­tance of having a social life out­side of football and academies. 
"At the same time with the work, you have to balance your social life too," he said. "It's an important part of school and I've definitely been able to go out and have a good time with my friends and kirtd of separate school from football and social-izing, enjoying what Notre "Thoy're always keeping nw Dame has to have outside of all grounded, and that's a good of that." thing to have," he said. 

His friends oil' the team have never been impressed with his status as a Notre Dame football Contact Kate Gales at player, Chervaniek said. kgales@nd.edu 

MARTY MOONEY 
Quarterback's journey includes Yale and interhall 
his days at St. Xavier -he took an Since donning the blun and gold, 
By KYLE CASSILY 
East Coast detour to the ivy-eov­Moonny hw; been an intngral part
Sports Writer 
ered walls of Yale. Mooney was of the scout team and saw snaps Yale's second-string quarterback on Oct. 1 against J>urduo. 
Irish quartc1rback Marty Mooney as a freshman, but the pull of lie counts his Purdue plays as has been on two different Division I Notre Dame became too great. one of his favorite football college football teams, taken his "My whole family is an ND fiuni­momnnlo.;, as well as a high school high school team to the heights of ly," Mooney said. "So this is roally game against bitter rival Elder Ohio football, played a little inter­where r wanted to be, and r really High School. In tho midst of a hall and even 
wanted to play football here." record-setting crowd at thn fi>Und time to lin talked to former offensive University of Cincinnati's Nippert defeat Brady eoordinator Bill Diedrick during Stadium. he and his Bombers Quinn on the the summer prior to transferring knocked ol'f their cross-town gridiron. about going out for the football enemy in a grudge match. 
Mooney team. After a sm~eessful winter try­Mooney will dose out his li1otball was the star out, Mooney ollidally became a career in thesn next few wc~eks and of prestigious membnr of the Irish squad and move into the field of investmllnt St. Xavier worked his way up the depth banking, rnc~ontly having accepted lligh School chart. a position with Morgan Stanlny in football in Mooney 
"When you go home, evnryono Chicago. But his expnrinnces at this Cincinnati, says, 'You play liJOtball lor Notre Univnrsity and with this fiJOtball Ohio, and captained his Bombers Dame'. They just want to talk tnam will rmnain with him. to the Division 1 Ohio State about lilotball, and that's all they "To sen how this place has Championship game in 2001. On ever want to talk about," Mooney changnd ovnr the last two years tho road to the finals, where the said. "Which when you say the from whnn Coach Weis c:ame in, Bombers li1ll to Ohio powerhouse same thing over and over again, it and we n~ally li~lt bad about our­St. Ignatius, Mooney and his St. kind of gots tiring. but at thn same snlves ;tflnr losing to Omgon State, Xavier team had to battle future time, it's great. To say you play to see wlwre we are now -it's teammates Quinn and Chinedum football for Notre Dame, everyonn been a ~-,rrmtt experience," he said. Ndukwe of Dublin-Coll'man High knows what you do." lie is looking li>rward to mnbark­School in the semi-fma.ls. In the limn between coming to ing onto a nnw endeavor and likns 
The 6-foot-2 quarterback threw Notre Dame and bneoming a full­tlw dosP proximity that his new job three touehdowns passes and timll player lor the Irish, Mooney will have to c:ampus, but he's sad­liJUght through a hand injury that honed his skills in interhall football. demld to have to lnavn tim ~-,rridiron made it nearly impossibln fill' him lie had free reign over his behind. to throw the ball in the seeond half, Morrissey llall ollimse and lnd tlw "The only thing I regrnt is not as ho led his tnam to a 35-14 vieto­Manorites to a semi-finals berth. eoming hem as a fmshman." he 
ry. "It was fun just to play, I mnan to said. "!.Just rnally lovml it hem~ tlmt 
"Every once in a while, I give go out there and make up my own much. IQuinnl a hard time about it," plays," Mooney said of the intnrhall Mooney said. experience. "Basically I could do 
The Cincinnati native didn't whatever I wanted, so it was a fun Contact Kyle Cassily at eomc directly to Notre Dame after experience." kcassily@nd.edu 

page 10 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 18, 2005 
BRIAN BEIDATSCH 

Strength and character 
Defensive tackle Brian Beidatsch has become invaluable to coaches due to his versatility 
next moment." 
By PAT LEONARD 
Beidatsch has played in all 
Sports Writer 

nine games this season, recording 11 tackles (four solo) Brian Beidatsch is a charac­-a career high for a single ter. You just have to know him. season -and his first full 
"He's a real quiet guy, unless sack. he knows you and you're bud­And as his career peaks, dies," nose tackle Derek Landri Beidatsch has the opportunity said of the to go out on a personal, and backup team, high. defensive tackle. The human plug "Then he's Opponents who throw the your typical ball often do not see as much buddy who of Beitdasch because Landri messes (263 pounds) and Laws (293) around, have proven themselves to be we'll play better pass rushers. pranks on Landri even speeds into the each other, backfield on run plays and all that good stuff. makes several tackles for loss, 
So, have any good stories, including an immediate wrap­Brian? up of Navy quarterback Lamar 
"Yeah," Beidatsch said with a Owens in last Saturday's 42­smile. "Too good to share with 21. you." But Beidatsch becomes 
The 6-foot-3, 294-pound sen­invaluable to defensive coordi­ior has made friends like nator Rick Minter and the Irish Landri by being just as all­front line when the ball stays business on the field as he is on the ground. easygoing off of it. "He's a big kid, bigger than 
After redshirting his fresh­both Trevor and I," Landri man season, Beidatsch (pro­said. "When me and Trevor are nounced 'by-dash') has become in there, we bring that quick­one of the most reliable players ness. When Beidatsch is in on Notre Dame's defense. there, he takes up three guys Landri and Trevor Laws start and basically lets the lineback­on the interior defensive line, ers run free, which is what but Beidatsch must be on call every linebacker wants to do." -like a doctor on the sidelines The trio of interior linemen is -to jump into either position, coming off perhaps its best sta­left or right tackle, at any point tistical performance of the sea­during a game. son against the Midshipmen. 
"You've got to know your Landri made seven tackles, place," Beidatsch said, explain­Laws had six and Beidatsch ing how he handles the hectic finished with four. backup role. "You've got to be "The guys that did really flexible in that you can play stand out for me on defense both sides, because I could go were really the interior guys," our problems really were on Irons were here. It seemed like Certain schools recruited in for Landri at one moment coach Charlie Weis said in his the perimeter, on the edge. a .500 season, and they were Beidatsch as offensive lineman, and I could go in for Trevor the Sunday press conference. "All They really got very little done great players on the D-line, but as well. But he felt defense fit 
inside because I thought that they didn't get that winning his personality better -his those guys were disruptive and season senior year. football personality, at least. they made a bunch of plays. "So I consider myself very "I probably had just as many 
"Corey [Mays] had a big day fortunate to be in the spot honors if not more for offense numbers wise in terms of tack­where things are going right, [in high school]. but I always les, but a lot of that had to do and I expect them to continue liked the defensive side of the with the play of Landri and the rest of the year." ball," he said. "You could just Beidatsch." Notre Dame is 7-2 with two go out there, and it's a little 
Beidatsch is more than games to play and momentum less thinking. There's thinking, happy to help out Mays, his on its side. Players Beidatsch's but you could play with emo­roommate, who also has age endured a difficult couple tion and really get into the shined in his final season seasons and can recall in detail game. You didn't have to slow wearing the blue and gold. But the emotions, lows and strug­yourself down, and I always he also believes that help gles of playing on a .500 team enjoyed laying a hit to some­comes from all three of the -or worse. one, so that's what fueled my linemen, not just himself. And But Beidatsch believes his defensive love or passion." he attributes the gelling of situation couldn't have worked That side of the ball is suiting himself, Landri and Laws to out any better as a member of him just fine in 2005. His 11 familiarity and chemistry. Notre Dame's team. tackles are one more than his 
"Usually you get in good with "There's been highs and 10 combined tackles from people from your class and the there's been lows, kind of like 2002-2004. people who you've been life," he said. "During Off the field, Beidatsch around for a long time," Willingham's first year, it was believes he has success waiting Beidatsch said. ''I've been here kind of a nice ride we had for a in the wings with a marketing with them for three and four while, and then this year's degree. But that's only his sec­years, and they're definitely been a great time as well. But ond option. guys I enjoy being around." then again you've had those ''I'd love to continue playing 
It's easier to enjoy being years when you've been .500, football if the good Lord wills around teammates, also, when and through that you've that," Beidatsch said. "But you the team is winning at the learned it's nothing but hard never know." exact, appropriate time. work and effort, and if you No one knows, just like no 
want it, you have to go out one knew Beidatsch would fac­Going out a winner there and get it done." tor so much into Notre Dame's 
The same goes for Mays, defensive success, or that he is wide receiver Maurice Stovall Side-to-side , so quiet and reserved some­or any player who has been on Beidatsch was not always a times off the field. the roster longer than one sea­full-time defensive player. As a "Really he's just a funny guy, son -nothing feels better to high school senior in 2000, he a goofy guy that we enjoy hav­Brian Beidatsch than to go out was a two-way, all-state selec­ing around," his roommate on top. tion from Marquette High Mays said. 
"It's very special [to win in School in Milwaukee, Wise, lin­If only he'd tell the story. my final season]," Beidatsch ing up at both defensive end CLAIRE KELLEYffhe Observer said. "My freshman year, [for­and offensive guard. He also 




Brian Beidatsch, who has had a solid season as a defensive line­mer Irish defensive linemen] blocked kicks and recovered Contact Pat Leonard at man this year, jogs onto the practice field this summer. Anthony Weaver and Grant fumbles. pleonard@nd.edu 

Friday, November 18, 2005 

The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page II 
Roe Wooos 

Academics, athletics complete experience for Iowan 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Spores Writer 
Charli•~ Wnis likes to give Hob Woods a hard time. Carrying a :L1J5 grade point average in mndmnical nngineering, Woods is one of tho top studm1ts on the football team. And his lwad mach makes sure he donsn 't for­get it. 
"When you've got a :{.9-sornn­thing you can't really make a mistake," Woods said. "Thn first thing out of )Weis'] mouth is, 'You know li1r a smart guy you am pretty stupid. You're protty dumb."' 
Woods said one of the smartest decisions he nvnr made was deciding to walk on to the Notre Damn football. Coming out of Atlantir lligh School in Atlantic, Iowa, tlw h-foot-2 wide fflCPiver was not recruited at all to play in mllngn. Woods W<L'> leery of trying to walk on because he felt he might not bP talnnted enough. 
"I almost ruled it out bncause I was a pwtty praetkal guy, and I didn't think I was good nnough," Woods said. 
l·:nmuraged by his high school mad1, Woods contaded the Notre Damn eoaching stall' in Dneember of his senior year of high school and began plans to walk on. When he arrived on campus for freshman orinnt<ttion in August, Woods went through a combine tryout and began praetidng with the team. 


"They never really told me I was on the team," Woods said. "I fi~-,rured it out eventually." 
Woods embraced the lifP of a walk-on, viewing 11\s contribution to the team as a serviee. Woods worked hard as a wide reePivPr on scout team ollimses to prepare the first team defense for each upcoming opponent. Eventually, the eoaches began to reeognize Woods' contributions. 
"After a couple of years of showing up every day and giving that p,fl'ort, they give you a look," Woods said. "When you get that opportunity, you've got to seize it and do everything you ean to never let it go." 
For Woods, that opportunity came midway through the 2004 season when the eoaching staff started inserting him on the first kkkofl' coverage team in practice. Former eoach Tyrone Willingham and his staff wanted to see if Woods could hold his own with the scholarship players. 
"For a couple of practices, I wa<; literally spotlighted every rep," Woods said. "So it's kind of a pressure p<u~ked situation." 
Woods apparently eonvineed the eoaehes he was worthy. On Oct. 2:~. Woods saw his first action on kiekofl' coverage against Boston College. lie went on to record three taekles on special tcmms during the season. 
Woods recnived an even greater thrill this fall at the end of train­ing eamp. Weis called Woods into his office and told the senior that he had earned a seholarship. 
"I was the most surprised guy in the world," Woods said. "It just blew me away. They said I was smiling from ear to ear. 
"It's definitely a great gift from Coaeh Weis and the University." 
In 2005, Woods has continued to eontribute on special teams. And in the Oct. 1 contest at Purdue, Woods finally broke through at wide receiver, reeord­ing his first career reeeption in the fourth quarter of Notre Dame's blowout win. 
"That was really kind of a sur­real feeling," Woods said of the catch. "I consider myself a big white stiff from Iowa -nobody that should be eatching a ball or trying to make a play, that's for SUrP." 
Woods knows his football days are numbered, and he is now concentrating on finding a job in engineering. 
''I've gone through some inter­views at this point and had some success so I'm going to weigh out my options," Woods said. "I defi­nitely have the self-awareness to know that I'm not NFL material unless I gain about 50 pounds and lose about half a second on my 40 )yard dash timeI." 
Woods will be sad to leavP foot-ball, but he is proud of' all that he has accomplished at Notrn Dame. 

"If you had talked to me four years ago about what I was doing at this point both academically and on the football liPid, I would have laughed at you," Woods s_aid..."lt's definitely an oxdting ttme. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 
ANTHONY SALVADOR 

Salvador finds a home on field with special teams 
Pittsburgh while blocking for 
By CHRIS KI-IOREY 

a kickol'f' rnturn. Sports Writer 
"It was the opening kick­

of'!'," he said. "I got a little 
Anthony Salvador has tweaknd and torn my MCL." always loved playing on spp,­Fortunatnly, Salvador was dal teams. only held out of the USC and 
Thn walk-on senior linP­Oregon State games and hacknr won an award at De returned to spring practiee 
l.a Salle at full strength. II i g h "It was the first I've been School for seriously injured, so it was a bning the little frustrating, but the team's top training staff was great," he special said. "During Christmas l e a m s break and thn bowl game I playPr, and restPd." nothing Salvador, along with Irish ehangnd defensive lineman Derek whnn he Landri, was at De La Salle 
•~arne to for part of the school's Notre Damn. famous 12-yPar, 151-game 
"I rmtlly enjoy playing spe­winning streak. cial lnams," Salvador said. "You really have to be a "Whnn I came to Notre part of that program to real­Damn, one of my goals was ly understand," Salvador to get on the field, and I said. "When we were there it knnw my best way to achieve was groat. There was a lot of that was to play speeial tradition and a great team teams." atmosphere." 
While Salvador has come Both Landri and Salvador on in snveral different kiek­graduated in 2002, two sea­ing situations throughout his sons before the Spartans lost four years with thn Irish, he their first game since 1991. said his favorite is running Salvador said Landri, who down kickoffs. was a f'ivn-star prospect and 
"Kickoffs arn thn most drawing national attention, fun," he said. "Wlwnever I'm was one of the reasons he playing football I love coming came to Notre Dame. 
down on kieko!Ts. You get to Salvador said there were coach. During his senior year said. "It had nothing to do still trying to f'oeus on tlw rome down full spned. You other factors, as well. of' high school, Notre. Dame with who was coach." season," he said. "When that have sonw n~sponsibility, but "One was academies, also I fired then eoach Bob Davie Salvador will graduate ends, then I'll start looking 
it's mon• about corning down had a great timn whnn I vis­and replaced him with from the Mendoza College of' at things. I've been talking to and !wing reckless. You can ited, and tlw third factor was Tyronn Willingham. Business and said he has not some companies, but nothing 1:1y ~~t tlwm and have some that I'd get to play football it' "Wiwn I was picking a col­yet figured out what he will really formal." lun. I came here," he said. lege to go to, I was trying to do aftnr graduation, whieh is Salvador suffered a knee One faetor Salvador did not find a sehool that I wanted to quickly approaching. Contact Chris Khorey at injury last s••ason against consider was the Irish head get a degree from," Salvador "I guess right now I'm just ckhorey@nd.edu 



page 12 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 18, 2005 
COREY MAYS 

Finally his turn 
After four years on the team, Chicago native Corey Mays is making his presence felt 

80 percent Caucasian. 
By HEATHER 
"It's about the make-up of 
VAN HOEGARDEN 

campus that's really different Sports Writer 
from the South Side of Chicago," Mays said. "Eventually you 
Corey Mays has spent five adjust, that's a part of life." years at Notre Dame -four of "I felt like it was just as diffi­them waiting. But his time final­cult as any other freshman in ly came this year, and the senior the country. I'm able to adapt to linebacker took advantage of it. many situations." 
"It's been 
It is this approach to change a great that has helped Mays maintain a experience," positive attitude through his Mays said of four years, despite not getting this year, his very much playing time at line­fifth at backer. N o t r e "If you look at Corey's situa­D am e . tion, it's really unique because "We're real­he didn't get a lot of playing ly just trying time for four years, and he to finish it Mays never once complained," line­all out on a backer and fellow fifth-year sen­great note." ior Brandon Hoyte said. "All he's 
But Mays hasn't always been ever done is say, 'Fine, I'll work the well-known energetic, fan­harder."' favorite linebacker for the Irish -he had to wait his turn. Waiting his turn 
Mays sat out his freshman From the South Side to South year, and the next three years Bend saw him playing mostly special 
Mays hails from Morgan Park teams. Mays played behind the High School, a Chicago public likes of Courtney Watson (now school on the city's south side. with the NFL's New Orleans He is the first player from the Saints), Derek Curry and Mike public league to come to Notre Goolsby. Dame since Chris Zorich in And although Mays admits it 1988. And next year, Demetrius was hard to wait at times, he Jones, a senior at Morgan Park, knew that he would get his is expected to suit up for the chance at some point, as long as Irish as well. Jones, a quarter­he kept working hard. back, verbally committed to the "It was hard to be patient at Irish this fall. times, because you feel like you 
In the end, Mays said he chose should be out there because playing time throughout his morning, Corey's like that 24-7. great to have a guy from Notre Dame for life after foot­you've put in the work and you years," Hoyte said. "But this He's just a happy-go-lucky type Morgan Park here, a Chicago ball. feel like you may not be getting year, he has been unbelievable of guy." kid, that is such a good role 
"Really at the end of the day, it your fair share," Mays said. and he deserves it more than Irish head coach Charlie Weis model," Weis said. felt like the right fit for me," he "You have to accept some anybody else." was surprised when Mays first And Mays, who graduated in said. "When you're being things. That's a part of life. You Hoyte's not the only one who stepped on the field, as his ini­May with a degree in sociology recruited, every school says the just have to continue to work has admired the way Mays has tial impressions were that Mays and psychology said sometimes same thing, but I felt like it was hard because you never know waited his turn. was a quiet, hard-working guy. it gets .difficult to balance school, the best chance for me after what's going to happen, or who "Corey's been very talented "He really didn't say too much, football and Positive Concepts. school." is going to notice you, or who's since he came here," defensive just went out there and worked "It [isn't] easy," he said, "but 
And once he got to Notre going to say what to you." lineman Brian Beidatsch, who is his butt off all the time [in the Notre Dame has really prepared Dame, Mays said the adjustment And this year, Mays has also Mays' roommate said. "And weight room]." Weis said. "Then me to multi-task and be respon­from high school to college was stepped up in his starting role. he got stuck in the position we got on the field, and I found sible and balance a bunch of not just related to football. He has 52 tackles on the year, where there were great players out he's a more vocal leader things." Chicago Public Schools are two sacks and has recovered in front of him. So he's kind of than I thought he would be." about 91 percent minority and three fumbles, while forcing had to wait his turn and I One last time nine percent Caucasian, com­two. respect it. l-Ie never complained, Not all about football Saturday will be the last time pared to Notre Dame which is "You got a guy like Corey just worked hard, made an And as good as he is on the Mays plays at Notre Dame about 20 percent minority and Mays, who didn't get a lot of impact on special teams and did field, Mays tries to be just as Stadium, but according to Weis, 
what he could do filling for those good off of it. When he got to he may be able to play in the guys. So this year's his to shine. Notre Dame, he founded a non­NFL next year, especially He's learned a lot from those profit organization, Positive because of his three years of guys and through his hard work, Concepts, designed to help experience on special teams. he's become a great linebacker underprivileged children. Mays "He'll have an opportunity at ... and a great leader." is the CEO of the organization, the next level," Weis said.As a 
Mays also brings an unprece­which he formed when he backup linebacker in the NFL, dented energy to the Irish on arrived at Notre Dame. the one thing you need to be and off the field, something he "I was doing different volun­able to do is you need to play takes pride in. teer activities, and I finally real­some special teams. He already 
"Every time I've stepped on ized I wanted to do something can play from tackle-to-tackle the field for a game or practice, with my name," he said. "It with the big boys. Then it's it's about energy," Mays said. really just mentors children and going to be a question of what "Because you never know when at-risk teens all over, but the else can you do because the NFL the last play will be your last, so best work we can do with it is is all about versatility and creat­enjoy everything you have." with at-risk teens." ing a niche for yourself .." 
And his teammates like the Mays said one of the goals of But for now, Mays is focused energy he .brings, including his his program is to help provide on closing out his five years at distinct hands on-top of his teens both in his hometown and Notre Dame, time that he thinks dreadlocks-filled head sign that in South Bend with positive role has flown by. he started at the USC pep rally models. He brings his team­"It goes fast," he said. "It when he was one of the speak­mates from Notre Dame, team­doesn't feel like it your fresh­ers. mates from high school, and man year, but it goes fast." 
"I'm always happy to be even his parents to help mentor. And Mays said he doesn't around Corey, no matter what," "Everyone needs a role know what the feeling will be sophomore linebacker Maurice model," Mays said. "It's really like when he plays his last game Crum said. "He always has ener­great when someone can have at Notre Dame Stadium. gy for the guys around him, and someone to look up to and fol­"I have no idea really," he that's something that on the low in their footsteps." said. "I just have to see when I field, everybody can feed off of. I Weis said he found out about get there. I can't even imagine enjoy playing with him." Mays's mentoring when one of what it will feel like." 
Crum, also a first-year starter, the groups he visited sent Weis a But one thing is for sure -he said Mays' energy never stops. thank-you card and a picture, will bring the energy. CLAIRE KELLEY!The Observer "Corey's like that all the time," thanking him for Mays's efforts. 


Corey Mays watches the ball carrier intently in Notre Dame's Crum said. "Weight room, 8:00 "He obviously is a very well­Contact Heather Van Hoegarden 44-41 loss to Michigan State on Sept. 17. in the morning, 6:00 in the respected person, and I think it's at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

-

Friday, November 18, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 13 
MIKE O'HARA 
O'Hara realizes Irish dream before hometown crowd 


By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
David Fitzgerald had a deci­sion to make during the sum­mer. 
The senior offensive guard broke his wrist last spring, but doctors overlooked the severity of' the injury and cleared him to play. Fitzgerald only made the injury worse when he played on it throughout spring practices. 
Then, towards the end of the year, Fitzgerald was told his wrist had not fully healed and that he would need sur­gory. That was only the begin­ning. 
"It was supposed to be a 90­minute procedure, and instead in turned into like nine hours on the table for two days," Fitzgerald said. 
Even with the long opera­tion, the bone failed to heal. His doctors offered him an ultimatum -undergo a final operation and miss his senior season or play with a cast. 
It didn't take long for Fitzgerald to choose the sec­ond alternative. 
"I said, 'Well cast it up, one more year I can make it through,"' Fitzgerald says. 'Til have to have an operation probably when the year is 


DAVID FITZGERALD 
Attitude, determination help lineman through injury 
over but that remains to be seen." At least his attitude is con­sistent. 
Fitzgerald has been used mostly as a scout team player over his four years at Notre Dame and is used to sacrific­ing himself for his team. The greatest lesson he has learned playing for the Irish is to always keep a focused atti­tude regardless of the eircum­stances. 
"Just keep fighting and if you keep working hard things will break for you eventually," Fitzgerald said. "Sometimes things don't always work out 
the way you "Just keep fighting, Purdun, BYU, want them to, and ifyou keep Tennessee and but just keep Navy.
working hard, 
plugging away. "Wo'vo had 
"We all got our things will break some good roles to play and for you eventually." games, so wn've we just go and all had a little do whatever we more [playing! 
can to help the David Fitzgerald time," Fitzgerald team." Irish offensive lineman said. 
Fitting words from a senior who -like many Notre Dame students -grew up cheering for the Irish. 
Fitzgerald did not start playing football until high school. lie grew up in a small town (Godfrey, Ill.) about 400 miles south of Notre Dame. The Marquette Catholic standout had 117 tackles, nine sacks, six fumble recov­eries, one interception and one blocked punt during his senior year. 
Around this time he began getting offers to play Division-
Fitzgerald is 

unsure of what he will do onee he graduates, but he knows that eoaehing football is not in his future ­at least for the time being. Instead he plans on using his l'inance degree to get a job and possibly move to Chicago. 
Whatever Fitzg1~rald choos­es, he has proven that he has character and knows how to sacrifice himself for others. 
Just consider his wrist. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
I football, including one from Boston College. But when Notre Dame came calling in the spring during his senior year, everything else went out. the window. 
"I grnw up as a Notre Dame f'an, and I wasn't sure where I wanted to end up," Fitzgnrald said. "I probably had a better chance of playing [.at Boston College] if I had gone thnre but you cant pass up Notre Dame, so when I got that chance I just jumped at it." 
Fitzgerald has had more of an opportunity this year to got on the field. The offensive guard has playNl in games against 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
Mikn O'Hara picknd a good time to be named the scout team player of tlw week. 
As a result. the Bellevue, W a s h . nativn earned the opportunity to travnl with tlw team on Snpt. 24 to Washington, tlw alma mator of' his mom, two sist1~rs and brother. 
Tho senior walk-on got on the lield in Notre Dame's 36-17 win over the Huskies, fulfilling a 
dn~am. 
"It was incredible," said O'Hara, who obtained over 48 tickets for family and friends for tho game. "It was great to be ahle to play in front of family and friends, especially bocauso not a lot of people get to comn out there because it's so far away. It was just a drnam come tnw." 
But tho sonior walk-on was unsurn he would even be able to play in front of family and friends. having broken his hand Lwfore tho season started. When he traveled to Washington, he had been practicing for just over a week, and it was the first game for whieh he was healthy. 


"It was kind of up in the air [if I was going to go[," said O'Hara, who has been to two away games in four years. "It was my first game back from breaking my hand, so I hadn't seen the field yet. I hadn't even been practicing until about a week and a half before that game. It was a surprise, and a good one at that, to get in there." 
()'I lara, a 5-foot-8, 180-pound receiver, fell in love with Notre Dame the lirst time he visited. IIe was born on St. Patrkk's Day and came to a football game with his brothnr whnn he was a senior in high school. From then on, he realized Notre Dame was the place fi>r him, his Irish name and his Irish birthday. 
"1 really fell in love with it," he said. "It was an incredible expe­rience -the game was awe­some. And, being born on St. Patrick's Day, being an O'Hara, I thought it was a fitting place for 
mn." 
And so O'llara, a second team all-county selection as a senior, was prepared to give up football. But a former coach for Washington, whose grandchil­drnn were teammates of O'Hara, convinced him to try out. 
"lie talked me into trying out, so I got in contact with [former! coach [Tyrone [ Willingham's crew, and they offered me to come out before school started for camp," O'Hara said. ''I've been on the team ever since." 
The snnior takes pride in being on the scout team and watching opposing teams' offenses against the Irish on Saturday, knowing he helped prepare his team­mates. 
"It's fun to be able to out there and make plays against our defense and hopefully get them ready for the week ahead," O'Hara said. "It's nice to see when you're watching the game and see the offense run the exaet plays that we ran and then our defense stops it. It makes you feel like you're actually con­tributing to the team. It's bmm fun; it's been a great experi­ence." 
O'Hara said although it hasn't hit him that his career at Notre Dame is almost over, the experi­ence of dressing for every home game this year and running out of the tunnel is a special one. 
"It hasn't really hit me yet that it's winding down," the finance major said as he recalled the first time he dressed for a game. "The first time I remembnr run­ning out there, I never knew wluit it sounded like for 85,000 screaming fans to be yelling. And it never gets old. Every time you run out of that Stadium onto that field, it's the same rush. Your heart's pounding, you feel like you can do anything." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


page 14 The Observer + IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 18, 2005 
MATT SHELTON 

Short, quick and nasty 
The deep threat has battled injuries to stay on the field and earn a place in the record books 


with a long of 33 yards, is not bitter. Instead, he is just happy to be 7-2 going into the Syracuse game. 
"Each year means a lot, and each year means a lot to differ­ent people in different senses of the meaning," Shelton said. "This year's definitely going to mean a lot in my mind, no mat­ter what I've done personally on the field, this team's done great. It's a great group of guys ­can't say enough about them." 
His high game this year came against Purdue, when he caught seven passes for 68 yards against the Boilermakers. He also caught six passes for 87 yards, including a 33-yard com­pletion against Michigan State, his third game back after his knee injury. 
Shelton, who has fully recov­ered from his second injury, said the two injuries have forced him to work harder than ever before. 
"It's an injury that I wouldn't wish upon anyone," he said. "The actual injury when it hap­pens, it hurts, you yell, you moan, do whatever you have to do to get through it. But the rehab is really just horrible. I was in there five days a week, sometimes six, doing rehab, once, twice a day. It's just horri­ble." 
And so with two knee surger­ies under his belt, where did Shelton get his lightning-quick speed? 
"My dad says he was fast. I say I'm adopted," Shelton said with a laugh. "So there's a little bit of a discrepancy there. I don't really know. My father and my grandfather both say they were fast when they were younger, so it carne from there I guess." 
Taking a shot 
After Saturday, Shelton's foot­ball career under the Dome will be complete, but he may not be done in South Bend just yet. He plans to take a shot at the NFL, and if that doesn't work, the marketing graduate will be baek at Notre Dame working in the development office with fund raising. 
"ll'ml taking my shot with football," he said. ''I've gotta do it, if I didn't, I'd always wonder, "What if?" After that, I'm going to come back and work for the University." 
But for now, Shelton is focused on his last game at Notre Dame Stadium after five years playing for the Irish. 
"I thought about it a little last week, just because Mom and Dad bring it up a little bit," he said. "I don't really know what to feel -it's excitement, it's sadness, a whole bunch of stuff rolled up in one." 
But whi.le his record may be broken, Shelton says he has the most important thing from Notre Dame-his degree. 
"It has been a great experi­ence for me," Shelton said. "The degree is the biggest thing I'm taking away from it. That's something nobody can take away from me. Somebody can take away records, memories can fade." 
And most of all, Shelton will miss his teammates, who have played with him for three differ­ent coaches. 
"This group of guys I've had for five years with me is a great group of guys," he said. "The older guys that were here before me that I had a chance to play with and the younger guys, all a bunch of great guys. I'm going to miss each and every one of them." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
Matt Shelton just wanted a chance to translate his play in practice to a game. And last year, that's exactly what he did, catching six touchdown passes to lead the Irish receiv­ing corps, en route to breaking a record and becoming quarterback B r a d y Quinn's favorite deep threat. 
"The stuff I was doing, it was­n't anything new, I just hadn't been able to do it during the games," Shelton said of last year. "So it was definitely nice to get the opportunity and do what I did." 
Last year, Shelton entered the Notre Dame record books by setting the single-season yards per reception record, averaging 
25.75 yards per catch. 
Coming to Notre Dame 
Shelton was a senior in high school, and he was considering other schools when his dad sug­gested he go to Notre Dame for eamp. So the Collierville, Tenn. native did and was offered a scholarship as a senior. But when he went back home, he tore his ACL, throwing a kink in the recruiting process. 
"As soon as I tore my ACL, a lot of people just ended up run­ning away and saying, 'Good luck with everything in your future, but we're going to back away now,"' Shelton said. 


But the upbeat senior said he is not bitter towards those schools that stopped recruiting him. After all, it didn't stop him from coming to Notre Dame 
"That's fine," Shelton said of teams losing interest after his injury. "It's understandable. I decided this was definitely the place I wanted to be because of tradition, academics, all that." 
Waiting his turn 
Before last season, the speedy wide receiver was mostly used on special teams. As a junior, he caught just three passes for 80 yards, and one catch was for a 65-yard touchdown. The year before, he caught just one pass. 
Shelton says the turnaround came against Stanford in 2003, when he caught that 65-yard pass and also returned three kickoffs for 51 yards. In this game, he showed what he could do in a game for the first time in three years. 
"The Stanford game two years ago, I had an opportunity, and they started throwing me the ball more," the speedy 6-foot receiver said. "They finally real­ized I could actually do it during the game and not just in prac­tice." 
And so Shelton took that game, the second to last game of the 2003 regular season, and built upon it for 2004. 
The breakout season 
Last season, Shelton emerged as the team's big-play threat. He played in all 12 games, starting three and catching a team-high six touchdown pass­es. His high game came against Pittsburgh when he caught only three passes for a career-high 128 yards. He said he was just being "opportunistic." 
"I waited around for two or three years for an opportunity here and there, and last year I finally got it and took advantage of it," Shelton said. "And I'm trying to take advantages of my opportunities this year and do what I can whenever I'm called upon." 
Last year, he caught 20 passes for 515 yards, second on the team, and good for a 25.75 yards per catch average, a Notre Dame single-season record. 
But going into the Insight Bowl, Shelton was one recep­tion short to qualify for the record, and he had injured his knee again and could not play in the game. But interim head coach Kent Baer let Shelton play one snap, and on a for­ward shovel pass from quarter­back Brady Quinn, Shelton recorded his 20th catch of the season, putting his name in the Notre Dame record books. 
"It meant the world to me," Shelton said of breaking the record. "That's something not a lot of people can say they've done at a University, in general, but especially at a place like this, where there are so many great football players. But with this offense and Coach Weis at the helm, I don't see that lasting too long." 
One more year 
This season Shelton has taken a backseat to a pair of 6-foot-5 receivers, Jeff Samardzija and Maurice Stovall, who are break­ing Notre Dame records left and right themselves. But Shelton, who has caught 18 passes for 184 yards and no touchdowns, 
CLEMENT SUHENDRA!The Observer Speedy receiver Matt SheHon is brought down by a Purdue defender in West Lafayette on Oct. 1. SheHon's best season was in 2003, when he had 20 catches and six touchdowns. 
Friday, November 18, 2005 The Observer + IRISH INSIDER page 15 
CRAIG CARDILLO 
Receiver balances Naval ROTC with football duties 
By MIKE GILLOON 
Spores FJiror 
Kiek1~rs arnn 't supposed to be exciting. Tlwy'n~ always the orws standing around, leisumly kicking linld goals whiln Pvnry­orw nlsn sprints through drills and 1wrfnets plays. 
At lnast that's what tlw s tn reo­type says. 
C r a i g Cardillo, on tlw otlwr hand. dons­rl't lit many stPreotypes. ThP backup Notre Damn place­kicker SIH'rHis his early Monday mornings going through Naval IWTC training and tlw latter hall' ol' l'oothall practice working with thn s1:out tnam receiving corps. lin tlwn heads horne at night to study mwugh to keep up on his history major. All in all a pmtty busy sdwdule for a kicknr, hut Cardillo would have it no otlwr way. 
"I lih kieking, but I hated standing around during prac­tien," Cardillo said. "It's so much morn l'un as a wide receiver." 
The sm1ior l'rom llauppauge, 
N.Y. has had plenty of fun this snason preparing the Notre I>anw starting secondary for the upcoming opponent as hn was nanwd offnnsive scout team player of the week earlier this season while moonlighting as a wide receiver. 


Unlike the stereotypical kick­er, Cardillo shrugs ofT the physi­cal contact dished out when playing scout team receiver. 
"You're not rnally hitting," Cardillo said. "Most of the time it's just wrapping up. And for a wide receiver you don't really block that much besides corner­backs." 
llis play at wide receiver reminds Cardillo ol' high school, when he starred for llauppauge lligh School at quarterback and wide receiver in addition to kieker. 
flo was namnd an all-league and all-county player as a snn­ior. 
Cardillo then hnaded to South BIHHI, following in tho footsteps of his fatlwr who graduated l'rom Notrn Damn "sometime in the mid-70s" and his brother who graduated from tho University in 2002. 
Prior to enrolling, Cardillo had considered going to the Naval Academy. But he deeided to enter Naval HOTC at Notre Dame. While it sounds like a hectic schedule with football and HOH: duties, Cardillo is thankful the HOTC has worked with him to enable him to do both. 
"I have to go to the running on Monday mornings," Cardillo said. "But that's pretty much it. On Wednesday we have drills but they IPt me miss it for prac­tice. If there's a conflict, I go to football." 

Once football ends however, Cardillo plans on devoting much time to the Navy. lie hopes to be stationed in San Diego and will probably end up on a surface warfare ship in the Middle East. 
Hooming in Knott Ilall, 
Cardillo had always wanted to walk on the football team. But the coaching staiT told him they already had four or livn kickers on the roster and nncouraged him to walk on in the spring. Cardillo did just that, earning a roster spot as a kicker. But it wasn't until this snason's BYU game that hn reached the field. 
No, it wasn't kicking a latn­game extra point or field goal. lie earned his way onto the Notre Dame Stadium turf as a member of the kickoll' coverage team. Cardillo would have it no other way. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

JEFF JENKINS 
Jenkins lives father's legacy on the football field 
him live out another dream -running back Travis Thomas. 
By MIKE GILLOON 
to work in federal law "Those are the two guys Sports Editor 
enforcement. .Jenkins' uncle who have stood tall with nw," works in the prison system, Jenkins said. "Thny'll always 
It was just nine carries for and he has inspired Jenkins to bn my brothers, my pals. 43 yards, stats not meant for that line of work. Stovall, who is also playing any SportsCenter highlight or "My father's my role model, his last gamn at Notre Danw All-America team. But for .lefT but I always looked up to my Stadium on Saturday, intends .Jenkins, his performance in uncle, too," he said. "I was to stay friends with Jnnkins N o t r e always interested in some of for quite some time. Dame's 20-the stories that he told. I "Because we livn in the 17 loss to always liked war movies and same dorm !O'Neill llalll. he's BYU in the cop movies and stuff like thaL always benn thorn for me 2004 sea­Cops is one of my favorite when I've had bad limns ol'l' son opener shows." the field and on tho field," m e a n t The Ann Arbor, Mich. native Stovall said. "I feel as if l'v11 more than isn't exactly sure where he known him my whole life and any acco­wants to work -he hopes to he's a good friend of mine." lade or tel­get a job in the FBI. State The last chapter of Jeff evision Department or Secret Service. Jenkins' football dream, as spot. But he is definitely certain well as his father's, will be 
"At a young age, lmy father] Notre Dame was the right written Saturday when he kind of gave up," Jenkins said. school for him. Growing up no suits up for the Irish one more "When I came herP, he want­more than live or 1 0 minutes time. Jenkins hopes to score a ed to see me play -here at from the Big House, .Jenkins touchdown, just like every the University of Notre always wanted to play for the running back does, hn said. Dame." Maize and Blue. But after fin­His mom and dad will be in 
His father had played foot­ishing his career at Huron the crowd. So will his girl­ball at Western Michigan for a High School with a city record frinnd, .Jihan Hush. time, only to quit. So when 3,970 yards and 60 touch­Thoughts of his family and Jenkins' unele and dad sat in downs, Michigan just wasn't the goals he has aehieVfld will the stands, watched him suit where he was meant to go. rush through his mind as hn up for the Irish and take a few "I think God directed me runs onto the field. So will the snaps at running back, a here," Jenkins said. memorins of his teammates dream was fulfilled. "Everything else was crum­who have stuck with him for 
"It was a great experience," bling and Notre Dame stood those quiek four years. Jenkins said. "I can't even put tall through it all. Notrn Damn ".Just coming out tlwre orw it into words. I just wanted to was the only option for me last time with those guys at play for my uncle and my and it was just God's will and the Univnrsity of Notre Danw father more than anything. God's gracn that got me here." will be unbelievable," Jenkins They've saerificed a lot for His time playing for thn Irish said. "The last tinw ... it won't me, so I just wanted to show hasn't been spectacular statis­set in until I put that helmet them that I could play hPre." tically. lie won't leave with on and walk out of tlw tun­
Jenkins will graduate from any school records or many nel." Notre Dame with a double career rushing yards. But he major in political seienee and is thankful for meeting some computer· applications, a lifelong friends in Notre Dame Contact Mike Gilloon at degree that will hopefully help receiver Maurice Stovall and mgilloon@nd.edu 


page 16 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 18. 2005 
JOE BOLAND 

Boland lives family dream by playing for the Irish 

By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Joe Boland is living a dream, and his family knows it. 
"''ve wanted to play football here since the time I was about four years old so there 
was never a choice -it was always N o t r e Dame," the walk-on senior said. 
Boland, a native of 


Philadelphia Boland and non-scholarship player who has played on the scout team for four years, said his family and friends respect the amount of work he puts into the football team they all love. "No one went to Notre Dame in my family. We're all just big fans -Irish Catholic," Boland said. "You go home and you get treated nice so it's pretty cool. The family's proud of me." Though he was recruited to play football at smaller schools, Boland said his love for the Irish made his college destination a simple choice. "I was a huge fan growing up and I just decided that's where I want to go and that's where I want to play," he said. "I was recruited Division II and Division III but always wanted to play here." 
Boland played tight end and said. "I want to get in there." safety during his senior year of "I haven't played a down yet, high school at Monsignor so I'm a little nervous," he Bonner in Philadelphia. lie said. "I want to get in there." said he hopes to use the skills Instead, Boland has offered he has developed at Notre and his services on the scout eventually coach high school team's defensive line. After football. coming to Notre Dame as a 
''I'd like to coach high school tight end, he moved to line­football some day and see backer when he gained weight. where that takes me," Boland When there was an opening at 
said.  defensive end  
Boland said his experience at Notre Dame  "''ve just got to take it all in. I mean, this is the  on the scout team, he moved to  
will helped toward goal.  have him that  end. f'lljust take it all in and remember it for the rest ofmy life."  where the team needed him. He said his  
"It  has  time thus far  
helped tremen­dously. I  Joe Boland Irish defensive lineman  with the Irish has certainly  

always wanted to coach high school ball," he said. "But I mean the teaching, the coach­ing I got here, and playing another position, you learn all different parts of the game." 
He also said he appreciates playing under two different systems during his time at Notre Dame. 
"It's good to see the two coaches, two different styles. I think I'll be able to take a lot from Coach Willingham and Coach Weis." 
Boland expresses nothing but appreciation for Notre Dame, even though he has yet to make the field during a game in his four years with the Irish. 
"I haven't played a down yet, so I'm a little nervous," he 
been worth­
while. 
"It's worth it to me," Boland said. ''I'm a walk-on. You know I'm not looking to be an all­American.... I love football. I like playing. I've always want­ed to play here." 
As his final weeks with the team approach, Boland said he will try to soak in all the. pageantry of' the final home games and surrounding events. He said he hopes to keep it as a memory for the rest of his life. 
"I've just got to take it all in. I mean, this is it, this is the end," Boland said. ''I'll just take it all in and remember it for the rest of my life." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
MATT MITCHELL 

Rewarding experiences surround scout-team senior 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
Matt Mitchell got the news of his football career in one of the more tumultuous moments in Notre Dame history. 
Former head coach Tyrone Willingham had recent­ly been fired after a 6-5 regular season, and the Irish w e r e preparing for their Insight Bowl game against Oregon State without their head coach. 
Then defensive coordinator Ken Baer approached Mitchell and told him that he would be moved up on the depth chart for the bowl game. The defen­sive back nodded and contin­ued going about his practice routine, but inside, the walk-on junior was elated. 
"Everything worked out and I got in during the game and it was just a rush," Mitchell said. "I can't describe it -it was awesome being out there." 
But for Mitchell, it wasn't always easy. In the course of his four years, he said there were times when he was frus­trated. Being a scout team player, he knew coming in that he would be working hard and rarely seeing the field. 

"We look at practice as our game," Mitchell said. "We're out there giving offense a look, making plays, knocking people down and getting intercep­tions. That's very rewarding for us." 
That's why his time in the Insight Bowl was that much more important to him. 

Dame academically and then worrying about walking on. 
Once accepted, Mitchell sent film to the Notre Dame coach­ing staff, which welcomed him as a non-scholarship player. 
And even though Mitchell knows he could have played ­and started -at other col­leges, he has no regrets. 
"I don't look 
back on that," 

"It made all Mitchell said. "I
"It doesn't get any
that hard work don't really con­and dedication sider what-if's
better than this. It's pay off," Mitchell a unique feeling because this said. experience right
you get, running 
Playing as a here, it doesn't 
out of that tunnel. 
senior this year get any better on a team that is You can't get that than this. currently ranked "It's a unique
anywhere else." 
No. 6 in the AP feeling you get, poll and No. 9 in running out of the BCS stand­Matt Mitchell that tunnel. You ings is exciting Irish defensive back can't that any­
for Mitchell. 
"It's a great opportunity we have in front of us," Mitchell said. "Just the respect you get around the country. When you say Notre Dame it actually means some­thing to people." 
Being a part of the team that is putting Notre Dame back in the national forefront is impor­tant to Mitchell. The senior from Memphis, Tenn. always had his heart set on Notre Dame. 
Mitchell was recruited by several Ivy League teams to play football but instead focused on getting into Notre 
where else." 

So when Mitchell hangs up cleats for good at the end of the season, he will move on with the rest of his life knowing he had a rewarding college life that many will never experience. 
"These last four years have been just the best experience of my life," Mitchell said. "I thank God every day that I had the opportunity to be a part of this team and contribute in any way I can. It's been amazing." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, November 18, 2005 page 17
The Observer + IRISH INSIDER 
RICH WHITNEY 
Family tragedy motivates Whitney to walk onto team 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Spons Writer 
Hich Whitnny Ill couldn't stand it anymorn. Two seasons as a Notrn Damn football fan, and hn was donn -lw wantml to play. 
And so lw did. 
Thn snn­ior dnf'nn­sivn back trind out for tlw t n a 111 l.hn wintPr of his soph­omorn ynar. and has lwnn on l.lw tnam nvt•r sincn. 
"Frnshrnan ynar it lJOthnrnd mn, and anotlwr st~ason watch­ing from tlw stands, it drovn mn nuts," Whitrwy said. "That was a driving foren. I had always talknd about doing it, and I had had nnough talk." 
Anotlwr driving l'oree for Whitrwy was tlw dnath of his fathnr. who passnd away at the nnd of Whitnny's freshman year, about night months al'ter !wing diagnosod with eaneer. And so he was given even more m o liv a tion. 
"lie was like il' you want to, do it, if you don't want to, don't do it," Whitney said. "It was just something I had talked about with him; it was one thing that I had talked about l'or so long." 


Whitney made the team that wintnr and has been a member of the Irish ever since. This year he's played against Purdun, Navy, Brigham Young and even USC, going in on spe­eial tnams to replaee an injured player. 
"I undnrstand my role, so I wasn't expecting it, but ol' eourse I wanted it," Whitney said of his USC experionee. "Onen I got that opportunity to be on the f'ield and be on TV and stuff, it's a great feeling. You just go out there and noth­ing else is around except what's going on in the game." 
Whitney said ho is glad he tried out, and he thinks his dad would have loved to wateh him play for the Irish. 
"lie would bo happy," Whitney said. "I le loved wateh­ing me play." 
And his dad nevor strays far from his thoughts, nspccially bdore and after a game. 
"Before the gamo I think about it," tho 6-foot-2 senior said. ''I'm not a big "get all pumped up guy," so I think about my dad, especially right before the game, when I'm walking down the tunnel. When we first run out onto the field and I'm running to the other side, I'm thinking about him. But once that's over with, that's when I stop thinking about it until the game's over." 
Whitney said his mom is elat­ed he finally decided to try out for the team after declining the opportunity to walk-on before his freshman year. And she will get to make it out for Saturday's game from Pennsylvania: 
"It made her dreams come true, and my grandfather was tho same way," ho said. "She always wanted me to !try out] when I was hero freshman year, but she wasn't going to tell mn what to do. She's excit­ed to come out here. She made it out to two games this yoar. Shn loves it." 
Whitney, who will graduate in December with a degrne in sci­ence business, said he is glad he finally stopped just talking about trying out for football, and actually did something about it. 
"No regrets," he said. "It's a tough road, there's definitely been some bumps in the road, but that's lifo. That's the way life is. Nothing's easy. We have to evaluate things as "What's it worth?" Just because it's really hard, is what you're working for worth it?" 
"And I think it is. The oppor­tunities I've gotten, the friends I've made, and being a part of Notre Dame football is worth all the hard work I've put in." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


JAMES BONELLI 
California native did not forsee ND career path 
Dame's offense has consis­tance himself from home but 
By PAT LEONARD 
tently distanced opponents ensure himself of an opportu­Sports Writer 
late into game, Bonelli has nity to sec the f'iold and seen a combined 9:43 of achieve academic succnss. 
Former Irish coach Tyrone action. He has played against Notre Dame seemed like the Willingham let his team Purdue, BYU, Tennessee and logical choice. score, and score, and score Navy this season, with his "I didn't want to just be a against his former Stanford longest stint coming in a 4:58 half-hour drive or so from squad on Nov. 29, 2003 in time period against tho home, bneausn USC was my Palo Alto, Cougars. Sl1Cond ehoiee," BonnIIi said. Calif. He has not decided on "Whnn I carnn to visit Notn~ 
Some future plans to return or Dame, I rnally liknd lthn critics took depart Notre Dame, but eoaehes undnr former lwad umbrage Bonelli did intimate his fenl­coach Bob Davin!. I likPd the with Notre ings about his school. Since I Dame's 57-current situation. was young, I
"You finally got to
7 whoop­"I Playing on the always grow up ing, but scout team I is not get out there and watching Notre offensive as rewarding as Dam o." 
see what it was 
lineman I'd like it to b11," Bonolli has
like to play again. 
James Bonelli said. had the oppor­Bonelli must have approved "And it's not that Because I didn't tunity to son the of the wide margin. The much fun. get a chance to field during a then-sophomore lineman saw Actually it's not roeord-broak­
play earlier, it was
his l'irst game action of his fun any day. Most ing, sueenssful Irish football career-a 2:26 days, you've got pretty exciting. " Irish season. minute stretch. to just bear down But his individ­"It was a lot of fun," Bonelli and do what you ual earner has
James Bonelli 
said. "You finally got to get gotta do." not panned out 
B0 nelli . s att i _ Irish offensive lineman 
out there and see what it was the way he like to play again. Because I tude reflects the planned. didn't get a chance to play frustration of a "Football has­earlier, it was pretty exciting. highly-recruited prospect n't really gone thn way l'vo So I made it worthwhile and who did not fit well into the wanted it to," Bonelli said. tried to hit someone besides situation at the University of "It's been a good experience my own team." his choice. overall. I haven't been disap­
Bonelli (6-foot-5, 280 "I was getting recruited by pointed, but l think it was the 
pounds) was used to hitting USC and a lot of West coast right choice -school-wise. 
his own teammates because schools," Bonelli said. "I was Bonelli is a double major in 
he had been relegated to getting recruited pretty much sociology· and computer 
scout team, where he has all over. I got about 30 schol­applications. lie said hn is 
played for the majority of his arships coming out of high eurrently contemplating 
four-year career. The senior school. I just figured Notre whether to get his masters 
redshirted as a freshman and Dame was the best fit for me degree. 
has one year of eligibility personally, socially and ath­
remaining if he decides to letically." 
return. Being a Camarillo, Calif. Contact Pat Leonard at 
This season, as Notre native, Bonelli wanted to dis-pJeonard@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer + IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 18, 2005 
DAN STEVENSON 

Always aware 
Stevenson has been key in protecting Quinn in the first year ofCharlie Weis' offensive scheme 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
As a high school freshman in Barrington, Ill. outside of Chicago, Dan Stevenson made a decision that his teammates still kid him about today, a decision not typical for a near­ly 300­p o u n d offensive lineman. He went out for the junior var­sity volley­ball team, a sport that is relatively pop­ular in the Chicago area. 

"It's a fun sport to me," Stevenson said. "The guys on, the team give me a hard time about it a little bit. We played sand volleyball in the sum­mers ... I just saw the oppor-. tunity to do it and a bunch of my buddies and I went out. We just had a good time ... I don't know how much I took away from it." 
But looking at Stevenson's play, some of the quickness and nimble feet needed for volleyball might have rubbed off on him. He is a powerful, blasting blocker and makes a particular impact on sweeps and traps when he pulls to block a defensive end or line­backer. 
Stevenson has started 32 games in his career -the second most experienced 


lineman after senior tackle successfully. Mark LeVoir. His play this "There's no better feeling year has helped Notre Dame than going out with a bang," to one of the finest offensive he said. "Luckily Coach Weis seasons in school history -came in and we were able to as the Irish are averaging put this season together. We almost 39 points knew we had a per game and good team. It was have totaled just a matter of
'The coaching staff
4,297 yards of putting the pieces 
offense. ... did a great job of together. 
Much of his motivating me and "Hopefully with improvement two more games
motivating the rest
Stevenson said is and the bowl
of the team. '' 
due to playing game we can with the same keep building on unit for several Dan Stevenson it. But [this sea­
seasons, but a Irish offensive lineman 
son's success] 


lot of it can also be attributed to first-year Notre Dame head coach Charlie Weis and offen­sive line coach John Latina. 
"The coaching staff ... did a great job of motivating me and motivating the rest of the team," Stevenson said. "But obviously the experience helps, it's something you can't coach. I think over the years I've built my game up and these new coaches have defi­nitely had a huge impact. I think hopefully people will say the offensive line was one of the strengths this year." 
"Going out with a bang" 
He seems relieved in a way that Irish head coach Charlie Weis was hired during the off-season and has the Irish back in the top 10. Stevenson knew he and his teammates had a lot of talent and he's ecstatic his final year at Notre Dame has worked out really helps ease 

the bumps the older guys have taken over the years." 
As he alluded, the situation hasn't always been so rosy for Stevenson. Playing under for­mer coaches Bob Davie, Tyrone Willingham and, for less than a week, George O'Leary, during his time at Notre Dame, has been diffi­cult since he left Barrington High School as the No. 1 rated offensive lineman in the Midwest and a Parade All-American. 
"It hasn't turned out the way I expected when I came here," Stevenson said. "It's been a pretty wild ride with three and a half different coaches -there aren't many people who can say they've done that. I don't know if that's a good thing." 
"They've always been there for me" 
He made his first start in the 2003 Gator Bowl at tackle in place of the injured Brennan Curtin after logging 
82:23 of playing time in the 2002 season as one of the most active reserve lineman. 
Stevenson used the momen­tum of his bowl game start to crack into the starting lineup at right guard to begin 2003, a season highlighted By a game against Pittsburgh in which former Notre Dame running back Julius Jones rushed for a school-record 262 yards. Injured in the 

me yet, playing my last home game in that stadium," he said. "I think it's one of those things that doesn't really hit you until you're gone and you look back on all your memo­ries. Right now I think there's just too much for us to finish. We have a game ahead of us that we can't look past. There's no time to worry about myself and wallow in my own self pity." 
When asked what he will remember most fondly about the school and team he devot­ed five years of his life to, Stevenson didn't talk about the near-upset of No. 1 USC this season or the 262 yards Jones ran for against Pittsburgh in 2003. 
What he will remember most are the times spent laughing and goofing around with his teammates. 
"Just messing around in the lockerroom, the buses, the hotels ... it's things like that I'm going to miss," he said. "I don't know how you can make a closer bond with a group of guys. The relationships I've built with my teammates are what I will miss the most." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

somebody that's been there, that's played [college foot­ball]," Stevenson said. "They can give me advice when I'm down and humble me when I'm high. They've always 
37-0 Irish loss to Florida State that sea­ "J don't know how you can make a closer  been there for me and that's something  
son, Stevenson did not play in games against Brigham Young and  bond with a group of guys. The relationships I've made with my teammates are what I  that's definitely helped me through this process." Of course  
Navy. He  firmly  will miss the most. "  growing up as one of six chil­ 
entrenched  dren  with  a  
himself in the  Dan Stevenson  father  who  
starting lineup  Irish offensive lineman  played  pro  
in 2004, start­ football,  
ing  all  12  Stevenson said  

games and clearing the way the sport just came naturally for Irish running back Darius to him. Walker's freshman record 786 "It was never something my 
rushing yards last season. parents really made me do," 
Throughout his extensive he said. "But it's something playing time at Notre Dame, that I fell in love with the first Stevenson is thankful for the time I stepped on the field." support of his father, who played for the University of "It hasn't hit me yet" Missouri and in the National Stevenson will probably Football League for the have another opportunity to Detroit Lions, and his broth­strap on a pair of shoulder ers Tony and Joey who suited pads after the Irish season up for Arizona State and ends. But he isn't quite ready Arizona Western, respective­to talk about the end of his ly. time at Notre Dame. 
"It's nice to always have "I don't think it's really hit 
--------------------------------~~---~--~---­
Friday, November 18, 2005 page 19
The Observer + IRISH INSIDER 
RASHON POWERS-NEAL 
Fullback's season steeped in speculation, mystery 
and if the St. Paul, Minn. overtime loss to Michigan
By MATT PUGLISI 
native may return for his final State in the Irish home opener. A.sociare Sports Ediwr 
game at Notre Dame Stadium As freshman fullback Asaph 
tomorrow against Syracuse. Schwapp rumbled at the goal 
ll1mding into tho 2005 l:am­"There's a possibility lhe line -a mistake that ulti­paign, speculation on Irish will return)." Weis said. "And mately proved to be the dil'l'er­fullback Hashon Powers-Nnal yes, I have talked to him." ence in the game -and later cnnternd on his role in the While Powers-Neal's 2005 was stuffed on a crucial upcoming season: would he season has enrtainly been fourth-and-one deep in play run­unconventional, it started on a Spartan territory in the wan­ning back similarly unusual note. ning minutes of a furious Irish nxelusively, Entering the anxiously comeback effort, questions continue to awaited season opener at concerning Powers-Neal's function Pittsburgh Sept. :~. Powers­absence naturally arose. primarily Neal. a player with three But one week later, tho full­as a full­career rushing touchdowns in back was back on the field in hack or as many seasons, matched his Washington and picking up split time collnge total in a little morn where he left ol'f' against almost than hall' a game. Pittsburgh, running tho ball ~~ v ~~ n I y Experieneing little trouble nin11 times for 30 yards and h ~~ t w " n n controlling an overwhelmed his fourth touchdown of' the tlw two positions? Three Panth11rs defense. thn Irish season as the Irish beat up months latPr. Powers-Nnal's frequently round llwmselves in former Notre Dame head namn still conjurns specula­tho Pittsburgh rod zone. And coach Tyrone Willingham and tion. hut of a significantly dif­nearly every lime they his II uskies, 36-17. fpronlnalurn. roached the red zone, Weis Powers-Neal suited up again 
Al'ler scoring six touchdowns a n d Nol r e Da nw tu r n e d to the following week against in his first four games, Powers-Neal. Purdue. While he only gained l'ownr·s-Nnal hasn't soon tho Carrying the ball eight ton yards on eight carries. fiold since Oct. 1 against times, the l'ullback demon­Powers-Neal picked up two l'urdtw. strated just how strong his more touchdowns. giving him 
Whiln Irish coach Charlie nose for the end zone is, scor­six on the season on only 31 Wnis and tho Notre Dame ing three times on runs of two, total carries. omdling staff have refusod to ninn and four yards in the sne­But as quickly as the full­eommnnl on the source of ond and third quarters of a back returned to action be the senior's last in a Notre during his senior yoar ­Pownrs-Neal's mysterious 42-21 Irish route of the against Washington and Damn uniform. After the USC Powers-Neal has played all ahsnncn from an offense in Panthers. Purdue, he was once missing game, Powers-Neal was simi­four of his games this soason which lw was oxpnctnd to be a After picking up 19 yards on in Notre Dame's biggest game larly missing each of' the next on the road -Powers-Nnal largo contributor, Weis did six carries in Ann Arbor of' the season -arguably of three contests against may never gel that chancn. drop a hint at a press conl'er­against rival Miehigan the fol­the decade against Brigham Young. Tennessee Only Weis has the answer. nncn Tuesday. lowing week, Powers-Neal was Southern Calil'ornia Oct. 15. and Navy. 
Wnis was asked if he's been strangely missing from Notre The two-touchdown game Now, having yet to take the Contact Matt Puglisi at in contaet with Powers-Neal Dame's heart-breaking 44-41 against Purdue may prove to field at Notre Dame Stadium mpuglisi@nd.cdu 
NATE 5CHICCITANO 
Schiccatano endures handful of position changes 



that I would do whatever it and all, they wore impressed
By CHRIS KHOREY 
takes to get a college scholar­with my ability to blitz as a line­Sports Writer 
ship and come to Notre Dame." backer so he thought I'd do a 
Sehiccatano worked hard and good job as a rush end on the 
Orw rnquirnnwnl to bo a suc­was good enough in high sdwol dnl'ensive line," Shiecatano said. cnssl'ul lwad coach is to bn to be a li1ur-star recruit at run­Schiccatano said he brings a familiar with all l'acnts ol' tlw ning back. While his hoart was unique skill snl to del'onsive ganw of football. Notre Damn set on playing for the Irish, end. snnior Nato Schiecatano, who otlwr schools had their hearts Despite weighing only 230 droams of set on getting him. pounds, he said his quickness following 
"You hear about the recruit­gives him an advantage. his I'at lw r ing process and people say its "Being as big as I am and as into coach­bad. but you still have no idea," fas l as I am. although I may ing orw day, he said. "It's so hectic, tho late have lost a step here and there, has aln~ady nights talking to coaches, fast guys are always l'ast." he passod that sehools coming around nvnry said. "I think it's an advantage rPquiro­few days ofl'ering you a scholar­for me on tho line. I'm not the nwnl. ship." biggest del'ensive lineman, but 
While at Once in South Bend, I'm the quickest and the s0 u t h 0 r n Schlccltano Schiceatano was fastest." Columbia a rookie tailback Despite his lligh School in Catawissa, Penn. on Tyrone experience at
"That day I made a
Sehiccatano playnd quarter­Willingham's 10-several dil'f'ernnt hack. widn rnenivnr and run­3 Gator Bowl promise that I would positions, most of ning hack. Sinco arriving in team. Sehiccatano's
do whatever it takes 
South Bend. hn's moved to full­Al'ler that sea­playing time has
to get a college schol­
bal~k. linnbackor and finally son he was come on special dPfnnsivn nnd. asked to bulk up arship and come to teams. Sd1iceatano said many of his and provide "One of the
Notre Dame. " 
movns have b1wn his own idoa. depth at full­highlights of my 
"Most of thn linw I went to the back, where career was coach and I asked. and the freshman Ashley Nate Schiccatano against Boston coach thought it was a good McConnell was Irish defensive end College Iin 2003) idna, tho bnst way for rnn to the only scholar­when were lwlp the loam," lw said. ship player. down," he said. 
(;rowing up in Catawissa, Sehiecatano ended up behind "I beat my guy to the inside and Schiccalano dn~amnd of playing fellow converted tailback I blocked the punt and we for the Irish. Hashon Powers-Neal and inter­scored a touchdown to take the 
"Hvor sinco I was littln, I hall-legend-turned-varsity-eon­lead." always liked Notrn Damn," tributor .Josh Schmidt. Schiecatano has no concrete Sehiecatano said. "Everyone When Charlin Weis was hired plans for immediately after else was Penn Stale fans. Whnn al'lor the 2004 season, graduation, but he did say that I was in sixth grade, my Dad Shiccatano was moved to he would like to coach. canw out hero for a coaches del'ensc to bettiJr utilize his "My dad's a coach, so I'd like dink. I got to mnnl Coach ILou combination of speed and size. to lake after him," he said. lloltzl. Hon l'owlus was thn lie played linebacker in the "Someday I'd like to do that as quarterback and he's from spring, but was moved to defen­a future career." twenty minutes from whnrn I sive end in the fall. live. "Talking to IWeisl and ldel'en­Contact Chris Khorey at 
"That day I made a promise sive coordinator Hick Minter) ckhorey@nd.edu 

page 20 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 18, 2005 
D.J. fiTZPATRICK 

Special talent 
An unlikely source brought Fitzpatrick to one of the highest-pressure positions on the field 
By MIKE GILLOON 
NFL hopes 
Spans Editor 

Fitzpatrick's ability to con­trol the mental aspect of the A lot of D.J. Fitzpatrick's game has taken him on a long knowledge about kicking was­journey. He went from being a n't learned on the football walk-on with modPst hopes of field. holding for field goals as a 
Instead, it was the golf senior to a scholarship player course and starter at punter and where the kicker. He's held that job for Irish place­the past two seasons and now kicker and has realistic aspirations for punter says the National Football League he learned next season. quite a bit "lie is ... so multidimension­about the al he'll wind up being in mental part somebody's [NFL] camp next of kicking year because hP is a guy who 
main­can do everything," Irish taining coach Charlie Weis said. "Very body control, his smooth leg seldom do you have a guy swing. In particular, a round who's handling thP punting, ol' 18 with former Notre Dame the kicking and the field goal football coach and Fitzpatrick kicking." family friend Lou Holtz made It has been a long road for him realize the similarity Fitzpatrick to get to this point. between the two. An all-around athlete, he 
"I had a chance to play golf played quarterback and was with Coach Holtz one time," an all-state defensive back Fitzpatrick said. "It was and punter during his senior almost every other hole he season at Marian High School was telling me how golf and in South Bend. He walked on kicking relate. It's the princi­as a freshman at Notre Dame ples of keeping your head after considering several down, having good body posi­schools -including Holtz's tion, following through and South Carolina. being balanced." "When I was a freshman I 
Holtz, who was the coach at was just hoping to get on the South Carolina when he and field my senior year and hope­Fitzpatrick hit the links, fully be a holder or something reminded Fitzpatrick that like that," Fitzpatrick said. "I most of kicking is mental. just wanted to earn the guys' 
"He always said kicking is respect with hard work and 80 percent mental and 20 per­do something on the field to cent physical," Fitzpatrick contribute." said. "Everybody kind of has the capability to do it, but Learning the trade went down with an injury in fourth-quarter field goals -a cent focused in on the details going in front of 80,000 with But getting on the field did­the first quarter of Notre 30-yarder to tie the game and of speeial teams," he said. 11 guys coming at you and n't take Fitzpatrick quite as Dame's 20-14 win over then a 40-yarder as time ran "Not only just the kicker, trying to get the fip)d goal off long as he originally thought it Pittsburgh in 2003, out for the victory. blocker and snapper ... all 11 in under 1.3 seconds ... it's might. When former Irish Fitzpatrick took over both "I grew up here, so moments guys have just one job to do hugPly mental." kicker and punter Nick Setta roles. He has held the jobs like that you dream about," on a particular play. He makes 
ever since, using knowledge Fitzpatrick said. "It was just a sure that all 11 are in the gained from from Setta and great opportunity for me to position to execute when former Irish punter Joey show what I can do. I was just they're called upon. Hildbold to happy that my "When everyone runs on to maintain a teammates put that field, there's no question
''I'm going to have a
high level of me in that about what we're doing. Guys play. great time when that position and are more confident. They "Very rarely we got it know their assignments and
clock ticks off and I 
do you have a done." don't have to think about it
know that I gave it my
kicking coach the whole time. They can just who knows the best., A new era go be athletes." ins and outs of Notre Dame the technique struggled that Finishing up
D.J. Fitzpatrick
of kicking," season with Fitzpatrick is thrilled with
Irish kicker/punter
Fitzpatrick the win over Notre Dame's play in his sen­said. "So what-Navy being one ior season. But all the Irish ever guys are ahead of you, of the few highlights as the success has made time move they kind of pass down the Irish slumped to a 5-7 record. quickly -ushering in a sen­knowledge to the guys in back Times have changed in South ior day that Fitzpatrick has of them. Those two taught me Bend, as the Irish and Weis been thinking about for a long everything I know about kick­have surged to a 7-2 mark. time. ing. They were great role Fitzpatrick hasn't forgotten "It's gone by so fast," he models for me." the relatively recent days said. "Just cherish these last 
Fitzpatrick certainly had a when Notre Dame's offense couple games, every practice. lot of time in the beginning of wasn't scoring many touch­I just want to take it all in his career to soak up knowl­downs and he was needed because it's been a ride of a edge from Hildbold and Setta. fairly often to kick a field goal. lifetime." Even after kicking 13 field But simply kicking extra And when the clock strikes goals and 153 extra points in points isn't a problem for 0:00 at Notre Dame Stadium high school, he practically Fitzpatrick. in what could be a messy, relearned everything when he "It's great because I'm not snowy Saturday afternoon, joined the Irish squad. always thinking, 'OK I have to Fitzpatrick isn't quite sure 
"From the time you get here go in for a field goal'," how he'll feel. it's almost like they recon­Fitzpatrick said. "There's just "I have no regrets," he said. struct your whole kicking style so much confidence in our "I've played as hard as I -it's sort of like redoing a offense. I'm just ready to do could. As long as I keep doing golf swing," said Fitzpatrick, whatever I am called on to do. that I'm going to have a great who captained Marian's golf I know that the offense will do time, when that clock ticks off team to the state champi­its best to put the ball in the and I know that I gave it my onship as a senior. end zone for me." best and tried to help the 
All of the hard work paid off Much of this credit goes to team as much as I could." for Fitzpatrick during Notre Weis and his coaching staff, 




D.J. Fitzpatrick, who Is in his third season of kicking for the Dame's 27-24 win over Navy Fitzpatrick said. Contact Mike Gilloon at Irish, kicks off against Washington on Sept. 24. in 2003 when he kicked two "He's completely 100 per-mgilloon@nd.edu 
-----~------~ 

Friday, November 18, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT page 21 

GO DEEP MEDIUM EXTRA LARGE 
-· a en 
-a: I I ­
I II I I I
en= :if One Large PAN with s: :~ One Medium One Topping ~: :¥ One Extra Large JJ: 
•t t~••l S699 ... ,•1 jjl IIIII
:! up to Five Toppings t: :~ -i: :! Two Toppings 1: 
•1 ~::~ i: :1 ~: 
en 

-
!j! S12gg }!!{ TwoMediu~~neTopping }!!i S12gg f! 
,. 1a••i "'''A 101 Ill
•t•,:. "'.••tt••~ Sl gg '"•i••~'i ~·.
-llf 
,! !': :~ 2 i!': :! !!: -1 
I ~ ~ ,. dl ~ lARGE ORIGINAL OR THIN CRUST I·• I ii ---...._ lARGE ORIGINAL OR THIN CRUST i• 
I \ ~ Expires 11/15105. Coupon required. . I I \ ~ Expires11/15/05. Coupon required. I I ' ~ Expires 11/15/05. Coupon required. . I 
L-~~~~~·l:•!!:! !!!'!..N!•~!Hil...!'tII.!!'!~·.!'!."!'!~~"'!!.'"'..::~ JL~'!.A~I~o;!·~!!!!'!..~!·!!!d!~'t'~ ~·~'!.".!"!.""..!.'!'!'~~~~ J L-~A~t~·:.:·~! !!!'!..~! ~d!Hii...!"L01!!!'!'!." .!'!"!' ..:!'!'~dl!!.~~ J 
-
z
I 

GARLIC PARMESAN BREADSTICKS WINGS SALAD 
I II I I I
!{ NEW Garlic Parmesan ~~~ il 10 Wings & One 20oz. Bottle !l li Add aSalad !! ­
Ill 

I .. B d t' k I I.. f c c I ® p d t ~· I .. t A 0 d I iJ!I
1-rea s1c s 1 ,_ o oca-o a ro uc ..1 •-o ny r er on y ,., 
:~ ;::1 ::.::1 :: 
-
en

ll S499 !lli S65D illi S499 ll Ill
1i ~11 i !· 1i .~~. 
It jl I fg. ~I I ~ Jl :~ r:: :~ I!: :! w:: 
I~ sef8tn j1 I ~ ~ lARGE ORIGINAL OR THIN CRUST ~I I ~ -Isef8tn ~I ·­
I \ -Expires 11/15/06. Coupon required. I I \ ~ Explres11/15105. Coupon required. .,.~ I I \ Expires 11/15105. Coupon required. of> IL_"!:_~t!."!!'!!!!!'!..N!'!!_NI!ill_'!_~_!! .!!~•_!•:_oun~ _!!'!lo<l_illl.!.~~ JL_"tA~I~'!.:'!'! !!!'!}!'!!!d!l!!!'t'~'!'.J!!'!."_!~~~~~~"'_:: _J L-~~~~~'!!'!!!!'! !!!'!;;,!'!!_~!!~'t~.!.!!'!."!_«.!~' ..:!'!tod_illl1_~ _J 
BUILD. YOUR OWN 
EXTRAS OneTopping 7.99 11.99 13.99 
wings breadsticks Additional Topping 1.00 1.50 1.75 buHalo or barbeque 
cheesesticks chicken strips 
Coca-Cola® salads
BETTER TOPPINGS Products 
Ham Beef Green Peppers 
Pepperoni Anchovies JalapeHo Peppers 
Spicy Italian Extra Cheese Banana Peppers Sausage 
Mushrooms Pineapple Sausage 
Onions Grilled Chicken Bacon 
Black Olives Fresh Sliced Tomatoes Tomatoes 
Friday, November 18. 2005 

page 22 The Observer + IRISH INSIDER 
Fourth-year seniors 
ANTHONY FASANO 


A candidate for the John Mackey Award ­awarded annually to the top tight end in col­lege football-Anthony Fasano has continued to build on an already successful college career. 
After catching four touchdowns last season, Fasano has managed to exceed lofty expecta­tions in 2005. He has been a force on offense and a favorite target of quarterback Brady Quinn this season. Catching at least two pass­es in all nine contests so far this year, Fasano has racked up 40 catches for 538 yards and a pair of touchdowns, including a score each of the past two weeks. 
In addition to the numbers, Fasano has con­tributed in other areas, developing into a tal­ented blocker. The combination of soft hands and strong blocking skills makes the Verona, 
N.J. native particularly attractive to NFL teams. 
Fasano is completing his third year of action with the Irish, leaving him eligible to return for a fmal season next year. But with the high level of interest held by many professional teams, Fasano has the option of entering the next NFL draft in April, and his career with Notre Dame may be all but fmished. 

CHRIS FROME 


After starting the first six games of the season at defensive end, Chris Frome injured his right knee in the second quarter of Notre Dame's 34-31 heart-breaking loss to Southern California Oct. 15. 
Frome had surgery on his knee the following week, but damage was determined to be worse than originally expected, and the Saugus, Ca. native will miss the remainder of 2005. 
Frome entered the season on the heels of a solid spring cam­paign that saw him not only start for the Blue team in the annual Blue-Gold Game, but play extremely well. Frome finished the exhibition with four tackles, including three for loss and a pair of sacks. 
A graduate of Newhall Hart High School, Frome earned first­team all state honors from the Los Angeles Times his senior year and was rated No. 91 overall by the Chicago Sun-Times coming out of high school. Frome also partici­pated in the prestigious U.S. Army All-America bowl following his senior year. 
Frome is expected to return next year and provide veteran leadership on the defensive line. 
DEREK lANDRI 
A starter at right tackle in all nine games this season, Landri has helped anchor a defensive line that holds oppo­nents to only 131.2 yards per game. 
After missing all of spring practice as a result of injury, Landri has avoided the injury bug thus far. He is currently eighth on the team with 32 tackles and ranks third with 
2.5 sacks on the year. Coming into the year, he had just 40 career tackles and one sack. 
Hailing from Concord, Ca., Landri was a first-team USA Today All-American his senior year of high school. Landri was considered _one of the most talented linemen in the nation. 
En route to leading his De La Salle High School team to a perfect 12-0 record and status as consensus national prep champion in 2001, Landri posted 9.5 sacks in only 32 quarters of play. 
With one year of eligibility remaining, Landri, like Frome, is expected to return and help anchor an experienced, talent­ed Irish defensive line in 2006. 

MARCUS FREEMAN 


While fellow tight end Anthony Fasano gets most of the attention, Marcus Freeman has been a constant contributor all season on both offense and special teams. 
Utilized more as a punishing, physical blocker, Freeman has yet to catch a pass this season after snagging five balls for 50 yards last year. After pick­ing up a tackle on special teams last season, Freeman has recorded a pair of tackles in 2005. 
A St. Paul, Minn. native, Freeman was a two-time all-state selection in high school. He attended the same high school as his cousin -fullback Rashon Powers-Neal-and tackle Ryan Harris. He caught 18 passes for 300 yards and three touchdowns his senior year. 
If Freeman returns next year, his role only figures to increase. Already a fix­ture in multiple tight end sets, Freeman should develop into a target for Quinn. 
BRIAN MATTES 
A backup offensive tackle, Brian Mattes has appeared in five games this season, includ­ing the season opener against Pittsburgh and each of the last three contests. 
Mattes started his career at defensive tackle, switching to the offensive line in 2003. A graduate of Wyoming Valley West High School in Plymouth, Pa., Mattes was a dual-threat in high school. In addition to 70 tackles, 13 sacks and nine tackles-for-loss as a defensive end his senior year, Mattes also caught 34 passes for 400 yards and two touchdowns to garner Associated Press Big School all-state honors. 
Should he return, Mattes will provide valuable depth on the line. 

Friday, November 18, 2005 The Observer + IRISH INSIDER page 23 
have one more year 
MIKE RICHARDSON 
Entering the season as the only experienced member of a vulnerable Notre Dame second­ary, Mike Hichardson has joined Ambrose Wooden in holding down the corners for the Irish all season -both players have started all nine of Notre Dame's games at cornerback. 
While safety Tommy Zbikowski has emerged as the unofficial leader of the group, Richardson has still provided valuable veter­an leadership, in addition to solid statistics -he ranks fifth on the team with 51 total tackles and second in interceptions with three. 
Richardson has also picked up a couple sacks, three tackles for loss, a fumble recovery and two forced fumbles this year. 
Coming into the 2005 season, 
the Warner Roberts, Ga. nativo had played in all 12 Irish games each of past two seasons, yet started only five of those 24 con­tests. Richardson has already topped his career numbers heading into the 2005 season ho had just 49 tackles and one interception in his l'irst two years combined. 
Although Richardson still has a year of eligibility remaining ­he didn't see action as a fresh­man in 2002 -his role on tho 2006 team may be more hazy than it was entering the 2005 season. 
With Wooden at the other cor­ner position and talented, 5-star defensive back recruit Darrin Walls a verbal to play at Notre Dame next season, Hichardson could find himself a backup. 

DAN SANTUCCI 
Like Bob Morton, Dan Santucci is one of four play­ers rotating at the three interior offensive line spots this season. 
Despite the rotation, Santucci has started all nine of Notre Dame's games this season, providing solid pass protection and run blocking. After sitting out his fresh­man year as a defensive lineman, Santucci played 12 games in 2003, mostly on special teams, where he logged 67 total appear­ances. 
In 2004, Santucci switched from the defensive side of the ball to offense, ultimately seeing action in 11 games, including a start at left guard in the Insight Bowl against Oregon State. The Chicago native contin­ued to play a large role on special teams last year, posting 45 appearances, totaling more than 80 min­utes on the field. 
Santucci, like Morton, should return for his final year of eligibility and con­tinue to play a significant role. 

Bos MoRTON 

After starting the first four games of the season on the offen­sive line, Bob Morton didn't see action against Purdue, yet returned to play in Notre Dame's last three games. 
Rotating with fellow offensive linemen Dan Santucci, John Sullivan and Dan Stevenson at the three internal line spots, Morton has been solid contributor all sea­son. 
Boasting a wealth of experience, Morton started 11 games at center in 2003 as well as 11 games at left guard in 2004. 
A McKinney, Tex. native, the lineman has followed his father's college football footsteps -Bob Morton, Sr. played at Hutgers. 
Named as a second team offen­sive lineman on the USA Today All-America team his senior year, Morton also played in the annual 
U.S. Army All-America Bowl in San Antonio. 
He did not allow a sack his sen­ior season and competed in track and field during high school, earn­ing three letters in shotput and garnering an additional three in power lifting. 
After playing in 30 of Notre Dame's last 32 games, Morton is expncted to return in 2006. 
RHEMA McKNIGHT 
Wid•~ rncniver Hlwma McKnight entered tho 2005 season as Notre Damn's No. 1 rec:niver in· coaeh Charlie Weis' revamped ofTnnsive systmn. 
But McKnight's season came to an abrupt end just over a game into the year whon his right kneo buckled on a hit against Michigan. 
Arter an undisclosed procedure on his knee, rumors had McKnight suiting up for Notn~ Denne's showdown with Southern California Oct. 15, yet llw receiver wasn't able to return. As a result, McKnight will miss llw rest of the 2005 season, and the Irish will seek a medical red shirt, dearing McKnight to rnturn to a deep receiving eorn in 2006. 
Tlw l.a Palma, Ca. native started the year on the henls of two straight seasons atop the Notrn Dame receiving rankings. As a freshman in 2002, McKnight played in 12 games (zero starts), grabbing nine passes for 91 yards. 
But McKnight took ofT in his second year with the Irish, catching 4R passns for 600 yards and a trio of seores. It was more of the samn for McKnight in 2004, as he pulled in 42 passes for 610 yards and 

Irish wide receiver Rhema McKnight is tackled by Stanford's Stanley Wilson during Notre Dame's 23-15 victory Oct. 9 last season. 
three more touchdown receptions. 
The emergence of Jeff Samardzija as one of the top receivers in college football eouplnd with consistent play from tight end Anthony Fasano, the deep threat pro­vided by receiver Matt Shelton and the recent record-breaking performance by receiver Mauriee Stovall -the senior eaught a Notre Dame record four Quinn touchdown passes in a 49-23 route of Brigham Young at Notre Dame Stadium Oet. 22 -McKnight's absenee hasn't been as damaging to the Irish passing attaek as originally expected when McKnight was injured in Ann Arbor in early Sept. 
Nevertheless, with Fasano potentially headed to the NFL and Stovall and Shelton both set to graduate, the Irish will be counting on MeKnight to provide some vet­eran leadership when Notre Dame takes the field in 2006. 
Along with Samardzija and young talent including David Grimes and D.J. llord, MeKnight should help round out what is projected to be a potent Irish passing attack next season controlled by a more mature Quinn and an offensive master­mind in Weis. 
····:­
~ 







