
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 17 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14,2005 
Law student keeps hurricane blogger 
By KATIE PERRY Assisranr Nl'ws Fdiror 
Second-year Notrn Dame law studnnt Brendan Loy's newfound celebrity was the product of an unusual source -his fame sprouted from a Wnb lug, blog for short. created in April 2002. 
Befor11 the tragedy of Hurricane Katrina, the 23-year­old's blog, brendanloy.com, had a rnspectable trafl'ie l'low of approximately I ,000 Web site hits per day. But in tho days leading up to and following Katrina's New Orleans landfall, his count totaled as many as :H,OOO hits per day. 
l.oy, an avid tropical storm tracker sincn childhood, fol­
lowed the hurrieane's path and carefully eharted its grave potential days bp,fore eity and state o!Tieials paid sueh notice. No Nostradamus, the self­described "dork" used what most would deem basic eommon sense to predict the pending mass devastation. 
"The local government and the media did not sound the alarm loudly enough, but my blog did," Loy said. "I didn't make an amazing foreeast, I just looked at what was happening with the National llurrieane Center ... I'm not clairvoyant." 
Loy said he based his predic­tion on public information released by the National 
see BLOGGER/page 4 


Hurricane impacts grads teaching in South 
Former Notre Dame students working for Teach for America help with relief effort 
elass of 30 New Orleans sec­By KAREN LANGLEY 
ond graders.
New' Writl'r 
Then Hurricane Katrina hit Aug. 29.
When 2005 Notre Dame 
Hentges' elementarygraduate Melissa llentgns 
school, as well as the hous­bngan her two years of snrv­
ing project where many ofien with tho Tnaeh for 
her students lived, was locat­
Amnrica program three 
ed near a levee that broke.
wonks ago in New Orleans, 
The school remains under
lwr nnw pupils made a last­five to seven feet of water,ing imprnssion on her. 
Hentges said.
Snvnn-year old Bailey 
Hentges is one of four 2005.Jorws, a quiet studnnt with a Notre Dame grads partieipat­toothlnss ynt infectious smile, ing in Teach for America in 
ern atIHI i n t ricate artistic 
the New Orleans area. One
projnets. .Jy'Nosha l.nwis, a 
hundred thirty-eight volun­strong-mindnd six-year old, teers from the program weremado sun1 oad1 day that a originally stationed in thehnaring-impairnd rlassmate area. but many have eitherundnrstood what tho class followed the displaced New was doing. And .Jy'Nnsha's 
Orleans students to Baton
brotlwr, sevnn-year old Alvin Houge and Houston or relo­Batisn, was a natural loader. 
eatnd to safer areas them­
Al'ttH' months of pn•paration, llnntges had f'inally bngun her two ynars of tnaehing a see TEACH/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Career fair dra-ws 130 
•


con1pan1es 
Record-hzgh number of firms to attend Notre 
Dame's annual fall expo 
By SARAH WHEATON News Writer 
Microsof't, Holts Hoyee and Capital One are just thren of the 130 companies that will make an appearancB at today's career fair in the .Ioyce Center. 
Notre Dame's annual fall career expo, which will take place from 4 to 8 p.m., will feature a reeord-high num­ber of companies, including many new ones, said Lee Svete, director of the Carner Center. Internship opportuni­ties, as well as full-time jobs, arc available. 
"Wo still have our strong investmnnt bank and accounting firms, but now we have more opportunities for all students at Notre Damn who want to get into tho business world," Svote said. 
Students with earner inter­ests outside of thn business world will also find opportu­nities, due to a "greater diversity of employers this year," Svete said. 
Kirkland & Ellis, a prnsti­gious law firm basnd in Washington, D.C., will be present for studnnts intcrnst­ed in law. Thorn will also be a number of non-prof'it organizations prosent, ineluding Teach for America, which hired 4!i Notre Dame graduatns last ynar. 
see CAREERS/page 4 

Oppenheimer's life discussed 
By PETER NINNEMAN News Writer 

Curio us students and professors gathered Tuesday for a lecture on the· most destruc­tive man-made weapon, the nuclear bomb, and its creator, Hobt1rt Oppenheimer. 
The second installment of the lecture series "Thoughts on the Unthinkable: Perspectives on Nuclear Weapons and Warfare" took place last night in the McKenna Hall auditorium and featured his­torian Kai Bird, a freelance journalist and contributing editor to The Nation. 
The lecturn focused on Oppenheimer's troubled life, who Bird described as a key player in the ereation and policymaking of the atomic bomb. 
Bird characterized Oppenheimer, a physi­cist and government adviser who directed the development of the first atomie bombs, 
see NUCLEAR/page 8 

SMC Seniors Inake use of career facilities 
Center for Career Opportunities aids students with plans 
By MOLLY LAMPING News Writer 
For most Saint Mary's stu­dents, tho summer seems a long way off. But for many in the elass of 2006, the time for entering the "real world" is rapidly approaehing. 
At the outset of the aca­demic year, Saint Mary's sen­iors have begun already to plan for life after college with 
help from various opportuni­ties the Collegn providns. 
To hnlp with that planning, students often turn to the Center for Car1~er Opportunities (CCOl. Created by the College to help stu­dents transition smoothly from Saint Mary's into tlw working world, the ceo­located on tlw foundation level of tlw Student Cmltnr ­works with students of all majors to search for jobs, make decisions about gradu­ate school and improve their job-hunting skills. 
"We're not really plaeing 
see SENIORS/page 6 


camera at WNDU 

television station to film a Sept. 7 MSNBC appearance. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

We're all crazy 
It happens around this time of year. It sneaks up on us, and before we know it, we're entirely enveloped, and there's almost nothing to be done about it. I call it The Lull. It's when everyone. at school 
looks like a robot. We  
all go to classes, do the homework, eat,  Joe Piarulll  
go to sleep, then do it  
again the next day.  
Our routines are the  Wlre Editor  
cuts that cause our  
days  to  bleed into  
each other.  

To beat the lull, you must first recog­nize that you have a problem. Hello everyone, my name is Joe Piarulli, and I find myself leading a remarkably bor­ing, schedule-driven, sustenance-based life. Hi, Joe. 
You have to break the routine. Snap its back over your leg, and tell it you better never find it hanging out on your turf again. Then kick it in its metaphori­cal stomach for good measure. As it's said in "The Waterboy", you must "do what Captain Insano does to the bad guy." Become Captain lnsano. It's the only way. 
There is no such thing as a normal person. Everyone is abnormal. The whole world is an insane asylum. Embrace your insanity, because if you don't, you will always fmd yourself a vic­tim of The Lull. If you're having one of those weeks in which you see the same people every fifteen minutes, and it seems as though your life is on instant replay, do something ridiculous. Remind yourself that you're alive. 
A decent way to break the norm is to stop listening to everyone. Most people don't know what they're talking about anyway. Usually when someone says, "listen carefully," it's because they think that what they're going to tell you is important. As Jack Johnson sang, "What's important to you is not impor­tant to me." So when I say, "listen care­fully," I mean be careful about the advice you take. 
People give advice they aren't using, which probably means it isn't all that great. Would you give someone the pants you're wearing? No, because you're using those pants. You like those pants. You had to get those pants on your own and you don't want someone to have them. So listen carefully, that is to say, be careful about listening. 
Another way to escape The Lull is to stop trying to do what you think every­one wants you to do. Stop trying to be cool. You're only as cool as you think other people think you are. Think about it. 
Most importantly, amuse yourself. Use your imagination. Think about things that you usually wouldn't think about. The thoughts most worth thinking are the ones other people won't think. If you had Dr. Seuss in your head all day, would you ever get bored? Go back to the days when you used to pretend, because it's just as much fun in college as it was when you were six years old. It's fun to pretend that your room is a mini-golf course, or that everyone in DeBartolo is a zombie and you have to battle your way out before they eat your brains. Yes, people will think you're truly crazy, but that just means you're having much more fun than they are. They are saturated by the lull, but you, my friend, are not. 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and suives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, September 14, 2005 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT MESSAGE WOULD YOU PUT ON A WRISTBAND AND WHY? 






Rachel Manley Mary Levy Rob Carroll 
senior junior freshman Farley Farley Dillon 
"'Offthe '"Attitude' to '"/ heart Rob' pressure' remind yourself because I love because it can to keep a good myself" be taken in attitude." many ways. 

OFFBEAT 
Football player plans to amputate finger 
SYDNEY, Australia ­An Australian profession­al football player said Tuesday he plans to have one of his fingers ampu­tated in an attempt to improve his game. 
Brett Backwell, who plays Australian rules football for Glenelg, a suburb of the city of Adelaide in South Australia state, told the Australian Broadcasting Corp. he has suffered from pain and restricted movement since he broke his left ring finger three years ago. 
TODAY 

a:: 
Ashlyn lzumo 
freshman Pasquerilla East 
'"/ heart Rob' because he's a hot guy. .. 

Doctors had suggested fusing the bones in the finger, but Backwell rejected the proposal. 
He said he believed that amputating the finger was the only way to stop the pain and allow him to keep playing. 
Robber uses sword to send condiments flying 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. ­A robber swinging a samurai sword sent condiments flying before fleeing with $32 taken from the frightened lunchtime crowd. 
Patrons of the Mudville Grille said the man burst 
into the restaurant about 
11:30 a.m. Monday, wav­ing a sword and yelling he was holding up the place. 
Witnesses said the man whipped the sword across two tables, clearing the tabletops before slamming his hand on the counter. 
Several patrons emptied their pockets and the man grabbed the cash and fled in a green minivan. It was later found abandoned with the sword inside. 
Police said the van and sword were taken in a 2 
a.m. robbery. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

Dorian lnzunza 
freshman Keough 
"'You're not alone' because a lot of times, studying in the dorms. you are alone and you get down on 
Chris Harrington 
sophomore Dillon 
'"Charlie is my Homeboy' because Charlie is my homeboy." 

yourself" 
IN BRIEF 

James McKenna, from the department of anthropology, will be giving a lecture enti­tled: "Law & ... Sleeping With Baby: A Natural Ecology or a Prosecutable Offense?" today at 4:30 p.m. in room 120 of the Law School. Eric Smithburn will be the com­mentator. 
The 2005 National Conference on Organ Pedagogy, which runs through today at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, fea­tures performances, lectures and master classes by interna­tionally acclaimed organists. 
The Saint Mary's Student Governance Association is hosting the State of the School Address on Thursday at 7 
p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. 

Fiddler's Hearth is hosting a "halfway to St. Patrick's Day" Irish Fest Friday. Sept. 16 through Sept. 23 to raise money for the Red Cross Hurricane Relief Fund. Irish bands The Sprigs, The Bardic Apostles, The Fenians, Teada, Brock McGuire and local band Kennedy's Kitchen will per­form. Fiddler's Hearth is locat­ed in downtown South Bend at 127 N. Main. For tickets and information, call 232-2853. 
The fifth annual Saturday Scholar Series will begin at 11 
a.m. this Saturday in the Hesburgh Center. History pro­fessor Linda Przybyszewski will give a lecture entitled "Catholics, Concubines and the Constitution." 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 
HIGH 81 HIGH 81 LOW 58 LOW 63 
UJ 
::z:: 
~ 
UJ 
3: 
..... 
<C 
(,) 


77 52 


0 
HIGH 78 HIGH 53 HIGH 78
.... 
LOW 60 LOW LOW 53 
Wednesday, September 14, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
World-famous organists convene for national conference 
Special to the Observer The conference, which con­Heyes Organ and Choral llall. and show them that wn have 
tinues through Wednesday, "This has been one of my a flourishing organ program 
lntornationally acclaimed features a host of perform­dreams during my 2!i years at and that the University is organists from around the ances, lectures and master Notre Dame," said Craig committed to educating the world arn eonvnning this elassns by lop organ scholars, Cramer, professor of organ next generation of organists w1~nk at tho Notro Dame for musicians and cral'tspeopln and artist-in-residence, who and church musicians. This is tho 200!i National Conference and celebrates the first year also organized and performs a significant event in my pro­on Organ Podagogy in the of Notre Dame's O'Malley at the conference. "That we fession and in Notrn Damn's Mari1~ P. l>nBartolo Center for Organ, which stand11 in the would be able to bring people decade of the arts." tlw l'nrl'orming Arts. performing arts center's to campus from my discipline Presented in conjunction 


On the Way to the Cure™ ­The Kamen College Tour 
Is coming to Notre Dame! 
On tfie Way to tfie Cure™ -?Jie '}(omen Co[fege Tour is part ofthe '}(omen Pouncfation 's rtoung Women's Initiative designed to educate andempoweryoung acfu[ts a6out a dis­ease tfiat cfaims some 40,000 Ei_ves annua[Ey. 
DATE:  Wednesday, September 14, 2005  
TIME:  9 a.m. -3 p.m.  
LOCATION:  Fieldhouse Mall  

Prizes and giveaways, including iPods®, Pier l Imports gift certificates, designer t-shirts, pre-paid calling cards, GUNn teddy bears, and more! 
with tho American Guild of Organists (/\GO). tlw confnr­ence focuses on l.lw works of Dietnrich Buxtnhudn with partieular nmph asis on kl~y­board tnehniques, improvisa­tion, tlworntical issues, per­formancn, practien topies and thn historical situation of musie in l7th-enntury North Germany. 
The 0' Malley Organ was hand-crafted by Paul Fritts & Co. of Tacoma, Wasil., and has 2,550 pipes and 35 stops. It was funded through a char­itable remainder trust from the late Marjorie M. O'Malley, a member of Notre Damn's Advisory Council for the College of Arts and Lettnrs from 19SO to 19S6, who also provided funding for the Holtkamp organ installnd in the University's Basilica of' thn Sacred Heart in 197S. 
Please ·recycle the Observer. 

Interested in Blazing a Different Trail? 
BDO Seidman is a place for energetic self-starters-­people who aspire to make an impact early in their careers. In fact, of the 24 BDO Seidman partners admitted in July 2005, two are Notre Dame alumni. 
For 95 years, BOO Seidman has been recog~ clients through more than 30 offices and
We are currently 

nized as a premier accounting, tax and 250 independent alliance firm locations
recruiting Accounting 

consulting firm. We combine the personal nationwide, we are well known for our: 
majors (Bachelor's and 

involvement and attentiveness of a trusted • World~class engagement management; Master's students) for advisor. with the depth and breadth of • Experienced, accessible service teams; full time and summer resources of an established national and • Focus on quality and efficiency; and 
intern~tional organization Serving our • Ability to adapt to changing markets. 
internship positions in our offices nationwide. We provide a full range of opportunities for people with diverse talents. Don't miss If you're an outstanding individual who is interested in evaluating all of your options ... 
BOO Seidman at Notre Dame's 

Fall Career Expo Explore a career with .,BDQ 
,•. '. 

on Wednesday, BDO Seidlllan. 
BOO Seidman, LLP 
Accountants and Consultants 
September I 4! Find out more at www. bdo.com. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 14, 2005 
Careers 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame students have a strong record of success in competing for jobs and internships from companies present at the career expo, Svete said. The number of Notre Dame students hired for internships or full-time jobs with Fortune 500 com­panies was in the high 60s last year, Svete said. 
''I'm worried there won't be enough students for the num­ber of jobs," Svete said. Employers have already post­ed more than 450 jobs on Goirish, an online NACElink recruiting system. 
Notre Dame's career expo compares favorably with other colleges and universi­ties, Svete said. 
"For our size of an institu­tion, we're on the larger scale side," she said, refer­ring to the number of compa­nies attending. 
While gas and energy prices can have an effect on the number of companies attending, Svete said the recent spikes have not yet adversely affected Notre Dame. 
Svete recommended that students interested in attend­ing the fair "dress conserva­tively, on the professional side" and bring copies of their resume. Students are encouraged to research the companies they are interest­ed in before they go to the expo, and a list of all those attending can be found on the Career Center Web site. 
"I looked up companies on the Career Center Web site, but I'm going to check out everything there," said Claire Berezowitz, a senior environ­mental science and political science major. 
Svete also recommended students approach company tables at random, even if they have never heard of the employer. CH Robinson, for example, is a transportation logistics company that has opportunities available for students interested in work­ing in an international firm. 
Svete encouraged students of all years to participate, and said the fair gives under­classmen good experience for their later career searches. 
Many students are going to the fair with the intention of finding an internship. 
''I'm going abroad next semester so it's really impor­tant to look for an internship for this summer now," said junior political science and marketing major Julie Putnam. 
The expo is sponsored by the Career Center and the Mendoza College of Business. 
The Engineering Career Fair was held Tuesday. 
James Ehlinger, a senior computer engineering major, went to the engineering industry day Tuesday night. 
"I focused on three or four companies there but looked at all of them. I'm looking for a full time job for next year," he said. 
Blogger 
continued from page 1 
Hurricane Center and com­puter models. 
"The main point is not that I made the prediction, but rather why I was the lone voice in the wilderness," he said. 
As early as Friday, Aug. 26, Loy knew of Katrina's capac­ity to be an "unprecedented cataclysm that could kill as many as 100,000 people in New Orleans," he said. 
Days before landfall on Aug. 29, Loy posted dozens of entries on his blog inform­ing readers of the chaos to come -well before the media realized the enormity of the situation. 
· "August is a slow news month and Friday afternoon is the most boring news time imaginable," said Loy, who studied print journalism as an undergraduate at the University of Southern California. "On Friday when the computer model shifted, the media was asleep at the switch. On Saturday, the Drudge Report -which pro­vides the mainstream media media blitz of his own when with some of its information television, radio and print -still had a headline up journalists from all over the that read 'Hurricane Heads world scrambled to speak for Florida."' with him. Last week, media 
Loy said what was happen­powerhouses such as the ing off the Gulf New York Coast Friday did Times, MSNBC
''The main point is 
not fit the "pre­and BBC Radio 
not that I made the 
fabricated story­featured stories line" of the hur­prediction, but on Loy and his· ricane hitting now-famous
rather why I was
Florida. blog.
the lone voice in 
Furthermore, he Loy said the said the media the wilderness." Times of India made a second contacted him error Saturday Tuesday for an
Brendan Loy 
when local press interview. 
law student 
hesitated and "I think [the opted to wait for media atten­absolute certainty. tion] will definitely die down, 
"Even though the media but you never know," Loy tends to be sensationalist, said. ''I'm probably at minute [media outlets] also did not 14 in my 15 minutes of want to panic people after fame." previous false alarms," he But although Loy said he is said. "But in New Orleans, enjoying the recognition, he there was no time to delay admitted there is some "ten­an evacuation given the spe­sion" because it came out of cific circumstance." such a disaster. 
When mainstream media "I wish it never happened, finally began to meticulously but it did, and I'm glad peo­cover the threat Katrina ple were able to make good posed to New Orleans on use of the information in my Sunday, it was too late, Loy blog," he said. "In the media, said. big news is almost always 
Recently, Loy faced a bad news. Dan Rather made 
"emergency corps." which 
will serve displaced New 
Orleans students in Baton continued from page 1 Rouge, Louisiana; St. John's 
Parish, Louisiana; and 
selves. Houston, Texas. New Orleans 
While Bailey, Alvin and corps members had the· Jy'Nesha are safe in the option of either joining the Houston Astrodome, Hentges Recovery Corps or being does not yet know the loca­reassigned to another region tion of many of in the country. her students, or "I knew that I 
Teach 
"When you see
as she calls wanted to con­them, her chil­people stepping up tinue serving dren. New Orleans stu­
in these 
"It has been dents," she said.
exceptional
very emotionally "I felt that it was trying to realisti­circumstances, it the best way in cally think about which I could
shows even more
the possibilities serve them.
commitment."
for my children New Orleans and where they corps members may or may not Megan Hagerty will help to bring be," she said. normalcy back
Teach for America 
Although her into the lives of original school the displaced will not reopen in the fore­children of New Orleans." seeable future, Hentges has Teachers in the Houston elected to join the Greater branch of the Recovery Corps New Orleans Recovery Corps­are assisting with the relief Houston. This group is a divi­efforts in the Astrodome as sion of Teach for America's they wait to be assigned new schools. 
Write News. Calll-5323.  
2005-06 SEASON NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS .~.L\etors Fron1 rrhe LnHlon Stag·e TWELFTH NIGHT by William Shakespeare Wednesday, September 14 Thursday, September 15 • Friday, September 16 All performances at 7:30 p.m. Washington Hall General Public $18 • Faculty/Staff/Senior Citizens $16 • Students $12 Tickets ava1lable at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center ticket office. MasterCard and Visa orders accepted. Call 574·631·2800 or purchase tickets online at http://performingarts.nd.edu/. The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. (gi]LINIIIERSITYOI' ~DEBARTOlO ~NOTRE DAME ~PEii!FOI!MINGA~T!iC:fNIFR  

Megan Hagerty, one of Notre Dame's Teach for America campus campaign managers, applauded the decision of New Orleans corps members to continue serving their newfound com­munity in this time of fear and loss. 
"I feel like it's a big decision to do something like TFA especially because the indi­viduals who do it are people who have lots of other options," she said. "So first doing it and then turning that around and maintaining that commitment, and having that sense of compassion, it's amazing that they would stick with it after such extenuating circumstances." 
While this perseverance is indicative of the teacher's strength and values, it may also be traced back to the spirit of Notre Dame, Hagerty said. 
"You hear that Notre Dame has this huge commitment and focus on service, and his career on the JFK assas­sination and Aaron Brown on 9/11." 
Loy said despite the recent attention, he still plans on going into law and his endeavors in blogging will remain a hobby. 
"With journalism, on a day of crisis -that's the day you have to go in for work away from your family," Loy said. "I prefer a more-stable, less crisis-oriented job Ithan journalism]. but all six-figure offers will be seriously con­sidered." 
While some Americans complained of adversary journalism and excessive fin­ger-pointing following cover­age of Katrina's aftermath, Loy said it has been decent. 
"For the most part, the aftermath coverage has been good," he said, "but there's been too much focus on the federal government, and New Orleans Mayor Ray Nagin has not gotten enough flack. He's probably the sin­gle most responsible per­son." 

Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 
even though this is often shown in a day-to-day way among students, [TFA] is a real-life application," she said. "When you see people stepping up in these excep­tional circumstances, it shows even more commitment." 
The sense of community on Notre Dame's campus and the availability of service oppor­tunities in the surrounding areas did contribute to Hentges' passion for the Teach for America program, she said. 
"Notre Dame's response to the Sept. 11terrorist attacks during my freshman year helped me to recognize the importance of community and hope during a tragedy," Hentges said. 
To overcome this tragedy, the displaced students of New Orleans must continue to live with the same hope that they displayed before the hurri­cane, Hentges said. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 
CHIMES MEETING 
"Chimes," Saint Mary's College literary Magazine, will hold an organizational meeting 
September 15, 2005 at 5 P.M. 
in the Student lounge, Rm. 163, of the Saint Mary's College Student Center. 
Contact Sarah Wheaton at swheaton@nd.edu 

If you are interested in being a member of the "Chimes" Editorial Board please attend. 


ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, September 14, 2005 COMPII..FD FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Six-nation talks resume after recess 
BI\I.IIN(; -North Korna insisted Tuesday it will not give up its right to civilian nuclear programs, raising questions about the possi­bility of a brnakthrough as six-nation talks aimml at persuading Pyongyang to abandon its atomic wtHtpons resumed after a f'ivn­wnnk rncnss. 
l·:nvoys from China, .Japan, Hussia, tho Unitnd States and thn two Koroas elaspnd hands t.ogntlwr at a state gunsthouse in Beijing hnforo continuing tho fourth round of talks sincn 200:l that have so far failed to rnsolvn tlw standofr. 
Last month. rwgotiators took a brnak artnr a n•r.ord I:l days of nwntings nndod without agrnnnwnt on a statnrnnnt of principles on thn North's disarmanwnt. 
Britain rules cease-fire to be void 
Bf~LJ•AST, Norllwrn lrnland -A major outlawnd Protnstant group in Northern Indand has ahandorwd its 11-year-old trucn and is an onnrny of tho poace oneo again, Britain dnclarnd Wndnnsday in a long­nxpoetod vordit:t against the Ulstnr Volunttwr Foreo. 
Tlw British governor. Peter Jlain, said he has rocoivnd suffil'ient evidence that thn UVF _ an undnrground group supposed to bn bolstering Northern Ireland's Good l'riday pnacn accord with a 1994 cease-lire _ eommittnd four killings this summer and laundwd multipln gun and grenade attacks this wonk against tho police and British army. 
llain's Northnrn lrc~land Of'liee said in a statemnnt that UVF members' violenr.e "amountnd to a hrnakdown in their eea.se-lin~" and nwant.that, as of midnight, Britain no longt~r aeenptnd it as valid. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush recognizes government fault 
WASHINGTON -President Bush for tho first time took rnsponsibility Tuesday for fed­oral government mistakes in dealing with llurricano Katrina and suggested the calami­ty raised broader qunstions about the gov­nrnmtmt's ability to handle both natural dis­astPrs and terror atlaeks. 
"Katrina exposed serious problems in our response capability at all levels of govnrn­nwnt," Bush said at a joint White llouse rwws eonfnwnee with Iraqi President Jahtl Talabani. 
Roberts evades Democrats questions 
WASIIINCTON -Chief Justir.e nominee .John Hohnrts repeatedly refused to answer questions about abortion and other con­tt~ntious issues at his confirmation hearing Tuesday, telling frustrated Democrats he would not diseuss matters that could come before the Supreme Court. 
"I think nomirHHlS have to draw the linn whnrn they are most comfortable," said Hoberts, who also sidestepped questions about eivil rights, voting rights and the lim­its of presidential power in a long, occa­sionally antagonistic day in the witness chair. 
lie did say past Supreme Court rulings carry weight, including the Ron v. Wade decision that legalized abortion in 197:{. But tho principle of court prer.edents allows for overturning rulings, too, he said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Controversial Catholic School opens 
HOLLING PHAIHIE. Ind. -An embattled, wnservativn Homan Catholic religious order has nnrolled 1H seventh-and eighth-graders in its newly opened third U.S. boarding school fi1r boys intt~rested in the priesthood. 
The Legionaries of Christ said the minor seminary. called Sacred Heart Apostolic Sdwol and located on a 51-acrn campus 20 miles west of South Bend, plans to add a grade level eaeh year with an ultimate goal of I00 to 120 students, order spokesman Jay Dunlap said. 
Katrina causes energy crisis 
Bush officials concerned about natural gas shortages for coming winter 
Associated Press 

BATON HOUCE, La. ­It may take months to resumn fully natural gas production arter II urr­icarw Katrina, top Bush administration o!Ticials said Tuesday while exp­ressing worries about shortagns this winter. 
Unlike with heating oil and gasoline, there's lit­tle ability to make up the di!Terenee with imports. 
"Then1 are concerns about the supply of natu­ral gas," Energy Sec­retary Samuel Bodman said Tuesday, a week af'ter an agenr.y in his department predir.ted that natural gas prices in some parts of the country will be 71 percent higher than last winter. 
Bodman and Interior Secretary Gale N.orto n took a helicopter tour of the Gulf to observe the damage to oil platforms and l'lnw over the Louisiana Of'f'shore Oil Port, the terminal where huge oil tankers drop off their cargo in deep waters miles offshore. 
Evidence that the recovery of the region's oil production facilities is inr.omplete, at least half a dozen tankers were anchored near the port waiting to drop off their Exxon-Mobil refinery expressed r.oneern about international market" cargo. The facility, near Baton Houge, La., upcoming supplies of that the country could known as the LOOP, which has needed gov­natural gas. About one­rely on for additional returned to full operation ernment oil to continue third of the Gulf's natu­supplies as it does with last weekend. production. ral gas production has oil, Norton said. 
Norton said that 90 Bruce March, the refin­been disrupted. Last week, tho Ent~rgy percent of the Gulf oil ery's manager, said that Bodman said that Information Administra­platforms will be capable about 20 percent of its "there is less known" tion estimated that natu­of production by the end r.rude is r.oming from the about the extent of dam­ral gas priees would soar of the month. But she government stockpile. age to underwater natu­this winter beeause of emphasized that there is The refinery, the seeond ral gas pipelines and it's the hurricane, including widespread damage to largest in the country, uncertain when those incr-eases as mueh as 71 onshore facilities that scaled back production facilities will be up in full percent in parts of the will hamper produr.tion briefly after the hurri­operation. lie said it Midwest. beyond then. cane hit. but it now is could be several months Bodman and Norton 
Bodman and Norton again in full production, before the region's natu­met with senior execu­visited one of the govern­March said. ral gas system recovers. tives from two dozen ment's Strategic Petr­Norton said that 58 While the loss of oil energy companies Mo­oleum Reserve facilities, percent of Gulf oil pro­production is being made nday evening in Houston. where the government is duction remains shut up from government The executives said they providing several down, as does 38 pereent reserves and foreign sup­needed government help refineries with oil to of the region's natural plies, there is no sur.h in arranging for housing make up for supply loss­gas production. backstop for natural gas. for thousands of employ­es. They then went to an Both Cabinet members "We don't have an ees as they struggled to 

Unions blame city for L.A. blackout 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -Workers who ar.cidentally triggered a massive lunchtime blackout were upgrading the city power system during peak daytime hours because the eity was "cutting corners" and reluctant to pay higher wages at night, a union ollidal claimed Tuesday. 
City otlicials denied the allegation, and one City Council member ques­tioned whether the outage was an intentional move by the union to pressure the city in an ongoing eon­tract dispute. 
Almost 2 million people, from downtown Los Angeles to the San Fernando Valley, lost power Monday for as long as 2 1/2 hours. Traffic lights were out, elevators stopped, police were alert but said terrorism was not suspected. 
The shutdown came after a Department of Water and Power erew incorrectly r.ut several control lines at a receiving station in the Toluca Lake area of the San fernando Valley. 
Hon Deaton, the utility's general manager, said it was an honest mis­take by ter.hnicians. 
"That's all there is, there ain't no more," Deaton told ol'l'icials at Tuesday's City Council meeting. 
The workers were installing auto­mated monitoring controls to provide department oflicials with immediate information about the status of its system. 
Brian D'Arey, an of'ficial with the union representing H,200 utility workers, said technicians should have done the work at night, when power usage is lower and there is less potential for wide-seale shut­downs. Night work means higher wages, though, and the city didn't want to pay, he said. 
"They're cutting r.orners," said D'Arcy, business manager for the International Brotherhood of Eleetr­ieal Workers Local 18. "They should­n't have done it in the middle of the day when people are coming back from lunch and turning their comput­ers on." 

----------------------·--------------------------. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 14, 2005 
landed my summer intern­ship with Chicago Public
Seniors 
School and my job for next 
year."

continued from page 1 
"Go Belles" is an online sys­
people in jobs," said Mike tem that allows SMC students Sanders, the director of to enter their resumes into a Indiana Careers at SMC. national referral system, 
Stop Shoppingl "While that's not our respon­posting the resumes of Saint sibility, we help them find out Mary's seniors for hundreds what they're interested in." of employers across the U.S. 
Senior Lindsey Lozmack, a Another tool available to communications studies Saint Mary's students is major, has used the Center's alumnae of the College. A resources to find direction. database, called the Alumnae 
"You know what's out Resource Network, was cre­there," Lozm-ated to feature ack said of the 5,000 accesible working world, Saint Mary's
"It's not really 

"but you don't alumnae,
meant for them to

really know Roberts said. what you're give you a job. " A student can going to like." search by her 
Although she major or a spe­
Mike Sanders 

has submitted cific geographic her resume to a director area and gain number of com­Indiana Careers at SMC access to hun­paaies nation­dreds of Saint wide due to Mary's gradu­
opportunities provided by a ates and their contact infor­summer internship, Lozmack mation. This allows Belles to monthly tuition consults the CCO's director get in contact with women·in Jeff Roberts about her future the same field or same part board payments, career path. of the country in which they 
"He really helps you sort themselves are interested, 
ir cut, and grab \~II 
out your priorities," she said. Roberts said. 
LaFortune
To aid students, the CCO "It's not really meant for offers multiple career fairs, them to give you a job," says nter! workshops and internship Sanders of the ARN. "It's opportunities each semester. meant to start networking." The CCO's best assets are the Students will be able to 
NOTRE DAME ones that help graduating speak to alumnae about Belles start their own profes­careers at "Grace Under FEDERAL CREDIT UNION sional network, Roberts said. Fire," a panel discussion to 
You can bonk on us
"The Center was really be held Thursday, Oct. 13., in helpful," said senior Kate the Stapleton Lounge. 
to be better 
Keating, an elementary edu­cation major. "I brought in 
021 Lafortune Student Center my resume and they helped Contact Molly Lamping at 574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org me tweak it, which was how I mlampiOl@saintmarys.edu 

ALERT ALERT WEDNESDAY 9/14 

$2.00 Drink Specials 
10 P.M. ~ CLOSE "Must be 21 with valid I.D" 
' 
\ 


Wednesday, September 14, 2005 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 10 597.44 -85.50
jones ' 
~ 

· Opt Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
I .oI 5 I 4 I ~2 2.082.364,100 

AMEX  1,690.33  -10.59  
NASDAQ  2_, 171.75  -11.08  
NYSE  7,578.25  -59.26  
S&PSOO  1,231.20  -9.36  
NIKKE.I(Tokyo)  12,90 I.95  0.00  
FTSE IOO(London) 5,338.00  -37.10  

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NORTHWEST AIRLINES(NWAC)-52.57  ·1.74  1.57  
SIEBEL SYSTEMS (SEBL)  +0.68  +0.07  I 0.36  
NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ)  -0.25  -0.10  39.63  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.49  -0.13  26.48  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.36  -0.09  24.90  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.50  -0.22  44:22  
10-YEAR NOTE  -0.84  -0.35  41.34  
5-YEAR NOTE  -1.08  -0.43  39.31  
3-MONTH BILL  -0.32  -0.11  34.04  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.23  63.11  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -3.70  450.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.15  81.60  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  I I 0,6500  
EURO  0.8152  
POUND  0.5487  

IN BRIEF 
Deficit to be below last year's record 
WASIIINGI'ON -The filderal deficit, with one month lnft in the hudgnt year, is running well bnlow last ynar's rneord pace, thanks to a surge in tax eollnctions. 
In its monthly budget report, the Treasury l>epartmnnt said Tuesday that the August imbalanen nune in at $49.98 billion. For the lirst 11 months of the budget year, the deficit totals $352.6 billion, 19.4 percent below the lnvlll of rml ink for tho same 11 months in 2004. 
Tho govnrnmnnt rncordod a $24.6 billion sur­plus in Snptnrnbnr 2004 that left the total deficit for 2004 at $412.8 billion, a record in dollar tnrms. 
Tho Bush administration is expncting a sur­plus for this Snptnmbnr as well that will lower this ynar's total dnlieit to a projected $333 bil­lion, down from tho $427 billion the administra­tion had fomeast last Fnbruary. 
Trump outbid in property auction 
ATLANTIC CITY -The world's most famous rnal nstatn dnvolopnr bid $25 million Tuesday for tlw 2.5 aans of bnachfront propnrty in Atlantic City wlwro tlw Trump World's Fair Casino once stood. Housing dnvnlopnr Bruen Toll bid $25.15 million. 
Trump onen proposnd building a 62-story, 4,600-roolll hotnl and casino on tho site. But ear­linr this ynar, whm1 his c:ompany Trump llotols & Casino HosorL-; ontnrnd bankruptcy protection he agrn(1{1 to auction on· tlw land and give the pro­cnnds, plus $17.5 million in cash, to his creditors. 
Trump said by tnlnphone on Tuosday that he did not son bning outbid as losing. 
"I'm nmlly happy bocauso I wanted to get a rnally good prien fiJr tlw stockholders," he said. "Whntlwr I got it or not was not that important to 
Illfl ... 
A li.1w months ago, it seemed like kneping tlw land was a priority, oven though it is no longer allownd to housn a casino. In July, Trump won tho right to start the bidding at Tunsday's auction at $14.2 million_ nearly twice thll $7.5 million at which tlw land was appraisnd. 
Toll, a co-foundnr of Toll Brothnrs Inc., the llorsham, Pa.-basnd land developer, said he only bnmme awarn the property was available about a month ago. 
Tl"i E 0HSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Feds defend 9/11 relief program 
Small Business Administration praises own $5 billion effort, omits critical report 
Associated Press  
WASHINGTON-Pacing  
a  congressional inquiry,  
the  Small  Business  
Administration  said  
Tunsday it believes it fol­ 
lownd the law during its  
nearly $5 billion lending  
effort to  help sm.all  com­ 
panics  eeeovcr  from  the  
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.  
To  make its case, the  
agency distributed  one  
audit that praised  some  
of its work while omitting  
a  second report by the  
samn  congressional  
auditing agency that criti­ 
cized the SBA's post-Sept.  
11 relief work.  
The SBA  was  respond­ 
ing to an Associated Press  
story last week that found  
numerous  loans went to  
small businesses that nei­ 
ther knew they were get­ 
ting  - nor  wanted  - 
loans designed for  eco­ 
nomic vietims of the ter­ 
rorist attacks.  
AP reported companies  
hundreds of miles from  
the devastation of ground  
zero  - from  a  Utah  
motorcycle dealer to  an  
Ohio Sub_way sandwich  
shop  - had  received  
SBA-backed loans with­ 
APout being aware tliey had  
been  drawn  from  Small Business Administration Chief Hector Barretto defends the SBA's actionsthfl  
Tuesday after facing a congressional inquiry. Sept. 11 relief programs.  
"After 9/11,  the  SBA  
was  doing all it could  to  urship Committee, said  denied loans," the SBA  accounted  for  roughly  
help small businesses, not  the apparent abuse of the  said.  $3.7 billion in guaranUwd  
only in the  areas directly  program  was  "nothing  But the audit it cited  loans that were  distrib­ 
affected by the terrorist  short  of  an  outrage."  was  undertaken  in  uted by banks.  
attacks, but  across  th<~  Sens.  John  Kerry,  D­ response to  complaints  Tho SBA's press release  
country  as  well,"  SBA  Mass.,  and  Hillary  that  more  should have  also  omitted  a  second  
chief Hector Barreto said.  Hodham Clinton, D-N.Y.,  been done for affected  GAO report, from January  
"We  are  confident the  also called for investiga­ businesses. The report  2003,  that  rappnd  tho  
SBA  implemented  the  tions.  also only looked at lnnd­ agency for  using "incon­ 
program  in  the  way  The SBA circulated  an  ing  procedures  under  sistent  and  subjeetive  
Congress intended and  August 2004 report by  SBA's Economic Injury  measures"  to  gaugn the  
did  so  in  an  open and  the Government Accoun­ Disaster Loan (EIDL) pro­ success  of its disaster­ 
above-board manner."  tability Office, Congress'  gram, which accounted  relinf efforts.  
Barreto described the  auditing arm,  that con­ for  slightly  more  than  "The inadnquacios of  
AP report as "sensational  cluded the SBA had fol­ $1.1 billion in direct gov­ SBA's mnasures are espe­ 
and distorted," without  lowed its rules in  one  of  ernment loans.  cially evident whnn  eon­ 
citing any specifics.  the lending programs.  Many of the loans cited  sidered in  light of the  
Sen. Olympia Snowe, H­ "No  qualified  loan  in the AP story came from  agency's performance in  
Maine,  chairwoman of  applicants for SBA disas­ the SBA's Supplementary  responding to  the Sept.  
the  Senate Small  Bus­ ter relief after the 9/11  Terrorism Activity Helief  11 tnrrorist attaeks," the  
in.e s s  and  Entre pre n e- terrorist attacks  were  (STAH) program, which  seeond report concluded.  

Strike, debt pressure Northwest 
Associated Press ers -United Airlines and US Airways Maintenance Fratnrnal A<>sociation. 
-have entered Chapter 11 since the Ted Ludwig, pmsident of the union's 
MINNEAPOLIS -Northwest Airlines 2001 terrorist attacks. Twin Cities toea!, also urgnd steikers to said Tuesday it chose not to make $42 Northwest, which is flying through the stick together. million in debt payments in recent days, strike by mnchanics, has said previously "If you want to work at a nonunion suggesting the carrier i<> conserving its that bankruptcy is a possibility. The place, go to W<ti-Mart. Don't go back in cash ahead of a potential bankruptcy lil­company has raisfld its $1.1 billion tar­here," he said, jerking a thumb over his ing. get for annual labor cost savings to a shoulder at a Northwest maintmumee 
Northwnst's board planned to meet new, undiselosed figure, as rising fuel hangar. Wednnsday morning to decide whnther prices have battered the airline. The two sides havnn't mot since early to file, said Will llolman, a spokesman Northwest said it began hiring perma­Sunday, when mechanics walked away for the Air Line PiloL-; Association union, nent replacement mechanics on from an ofl"er that sought even morn which has a member on the board. Tuesday. concessions than they rnjected before 
Tho carrier, whose mechanics have About 200 union mechanics rallied at striking. been on strike since Aug. 20, said it also their strike headquarters near In a letter to the union late Monday, must make a $65 million pnnsion contri­Minneapolis-St. Paul International Northwest urged union loaders to allow bution on Thursday or risk having a Airport, where their leaders told them a vote on the airline's latost ofl"er. But claim made against its assets, according Northwest's fill-in maintenance opera­mechanics at Tuesday's rally didn't to a filing with the Securities and tion can't last. appear unhappy that their lnadership Exchange Commission. "If we stay strong, if you don't cross wasn't sending them an offer. When 
Typically, such defaults could trigger that picket line, the company will have Young asked the crowd whether anyonn other debt covenants that would force a no choice but to contact us," said Jim wanted to votn on the last proposal, they bankruptcy. Two othee major U.S. carii-Young, chief negotiator for the Aircraft roared, "No!" 
Wednesday, September 14, 2005
page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
'. •.,j 

Feerer victoriO-us 
in NYC primary 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Fernando Ferrer teetered on the edge of victory Tuesday over three other Democrats competing in their party's primary for the chance to wage an underdog campaign against Mayor Michael Bloomberg, a billionaire Republican who enjoys broad support in this overwhelmingly Democratic city. 
With all but 10 precincts reporting, Ferrer had 40 per­cent of the vote, ahead of U.S. Rep. Anthony Weiner's 29 per­cent. Manhattan Borough President C. Virginia Fields had 16 percent, and City Council Speaker Gifford Miller had 10 percent. Fields and Miller con­ceded their losses. 
Ferrer needed 40 percent to avoid a runoff with Weiner, and the outcome might not be known for several days until every vote is counted, including more than 25,000 absentee bal­lots. The winner goes into the general election on Nov. 8 against Bloomberg, who is more popular than all four Democrats in recent polls. 
Also on the New York ballot, Manhattan District Attorney Hobert Morgenthau defeated former judge Leslie Crocker Snyder, a no-nonsense former judge who raised the 86-year­old incumbent's age and eight­term tenure as campaign issues. Morgenthau was the model for the fictional TV prosecutor Adam Schiff on the program "Law and Order." 
Ferrer's run is his third try for mayor after losing the primary in 1997 and a runoff in 2001 to then-Public Advocate Mark Green. The primary that year was supposed to take place on Sept. 11, but was rescheduled in the chaos of the terrorist attack. Green eventually lost to Bloomberg, who was considered a longshot until he was endorsed by Rudolph Giuliani as the fires still raged in the ruins of the World Trade Center. 

Ferrer, the former Bronx bor­ough president, would be the city's first Latino mayor if elect­ed. 
A potential runoff between Ferrer and Weiner promised to be lively. While all four Democrats largely avoided attacking each other leading up to the primary, there were occa­sional tangles between the two men. 
As votes are· counted, the two are not likely to waste precious time, campaigning as if there will be a runoff, which would be held Sept. 27. 
Some Democratic leaders were concerned a runoff would divide the party and weaken their chances against Bloomberg, who is buoyed by shining approval ratings. 
Not to be upstaged, Bloomberg threw an election night party in Brooklyn, even though he did not face a challenger in the pri­mary. To cheers of "Feur more years," he addressed supporters at the celebration. 
"Someone told me there was a primary contest going on tonight, is that right? I love pri­mary night, especially when I don't have one," Bloomberg cracked. 
history department about President Truman's motives
Nuclear 
continued from page 1 
as a victim of McCarthyism, the FBI and the destruction of the weapon he created. The last part of the lecture concentrated on how 
Oppenheimer's fears and theo­ries on prolifera­tion are still rele­vant in the post 9/11 world. 
"He is today a metaphor for all the dilemmas and predica­ments we encounter today," Bird said. 
Bird specifical­ly cited the cur­rent Bush Administration's advocacy of uni­lateralism, which Oppenheimer spoke against. 
Bird also drew parallels betw­een Oppenhei­
"Kai Bird has written a number ofbooks ... that have made an important contribution to our knowledge about some ofthe most important figures in American politics and diplomacy during the Cold War." 
John Soares history professor 
because of his expertise iri the area of nuclear warfare, history professor John Soares said. 
"Kai Bird has written a num­ber of books ... that have made an important contribution to our knowledge about some of the most impor­tant figures in American poli­tics and diplo­macy during the Cold War," he said. 
Bird recently co-authored "American 
mer's trial and his loss of civil liberties. In 1954, Oppenheimer was suspended from his position as chair­man of the General Advisory Committee of the Atomic Energy Commission because of charges that he was asso­ciated with Communists. He was accused of using illegal wiretaps and officials wor­ried he was a security threat. 
Bird tried to have the audience understand. Oppenheimer's troub1ed mindset. He often described Oppenheimer as pacing or mumbling. 
The lecture concluded with a question and answer session. A spirited debate arose between Bird and Fr. Wilson Miscamble of the 
written for about two decades and includes evi­dence from many recent doc­uments. 
The lecture series takes place during the first semes­ter on Tuesdays at 7:30 in McKenna Hall. 
The series' goal is to pro­vide different perspectives from people of all fields of expertise. The first lecture of the series was given by llarold Agnew, who worked under Enrico Fermi during the Manhattan Project. Other guest lecturers include a Russian professor, physicists and political scientists, among others. 
The series is sponsored by the College of Science, the Department of Physics, the Heilly Center for Science, Technology and Values, the Center for Social Concerns and the Joint Institute for Nuclear Astrophysics. 
One upcoming high profile speaker is David Kay, who was directed by President Bush to search for weapons of mass destruction in Iraq in June 2003. 
Contact Peter Ninneman at ninneman.3@nd.edu 

for dropping atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Miscamble contested Bird's assertion that the Japanese were already successfully defeated when the bombs were dropped. 
Bird was chosen to speak 
Prometheus," the first full­scale Oppenheimer biogra: phy. It was researched and 


The CoNGREGATION 
ofHoLY CRoss 
irf1Jites you to join us in celebt·ating the 
VI ·G I.(, 
of THE FEAST of 
OUR LADY 
of 
SORROWS 
l'lliNCil'AL PATRONESS 
OF TH£ CONGR£CAT10N 
Wednesday September 14,2005 .ftt 9:00P.M. In tlie Lady Cliape{oftlie <Basi{ica of tlie Sacm[J{eart 
With Recitation of the Chaplet of Our Lady of Sorrows 
ALL ARE WELCOME 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAl. STUDY PROGRAMS IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Fall2006, SPRING 2007, AY 2006-7, SUMMER . 2006 
INFORMATION MEETING 
VVednesday,Sept.21,2005 
6:30 PM 102 DeBartolo 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15, 2005 FOR FALL, SPRING, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2006-7 APRIL 1, 2006 FOR SUMMER 2006 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 


.---------·---------­
Wednesday, September 14, 2005 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 



• 

our 1 eas 
... we have. GE's LEXAN SLX body panels infuse plastic with pigment, reducing volatile organic compound emissions normally associated with conventional automotive paint. We call this ecomagination. At GE we invite you to hatch your ecomagination through a career in engineering, finance, manufacturing, sales and marketing, human resources, or information technology. 
College of Business Fall Career Expo Wednesday Sep 14, 2005 
4:00 PM -08:00 PM Joyce Center 

Come meet GE reps from various businesses and learn more about the exciting full-time career and internship opportunities at GE! 
ecomaginationsM 
to learn more visit us at gecareers.com 
an equal opportunity employer 


A diversified technology. financial services. media

••imagination at work 
company. 
PUERTO RICO 
More prisoners go on strike 
Group of terror suspects have been refusing food for over a month 
Associated Press ber of hospitalized detainees 
had reached 22, but four 
SAN JUAN -Nearly 40 were returned to their cells morn dntainees have joined a after their conditions hunger strikn at the improved. All are being moni­Guantanamo Bay prison camp tored by doctors at the camp for tnrror suspects, bringing in eastern Cuba, he said. the total to 128, an official "Everyof)e is stable at this said Tuesday. time," Adams said. "If their 
Eighteen pris-condition appears oners havn to weaken, they been hospital­"Everyone is stable will be brought to 
ized, including at this time." the hospital and 13 who are either fed intra­being fed by venously or nose 
John Adams

tubes, said fed." 
Capt. John Guantanamo Bay The prison at Adams, a detention center Guantanamo holds spokesman for about 500 prison­
spokesperson

the detention center. The live others are receiving intra­venous fluids. 
Thirty-nine prisoners have joined the strike since Friday, Adams said. lie said the num­
ers from 40 coun­
tries. More than 230 others have been released or transferred to the custody of their home govern­ments. The detainees are accused of ties to the al-Qaida terrorist network or Afghanistan's ousted Taliban regime. Most have been held for more than three years without charge. 
The military has said the latest hunger strike began Aug. 8, with 76 detainees were refusing meals. 
Lawyers from the New York-based Center for Constitutional Rights said detainees were angry because the military allegedly reneged on promises to comply with the Geneva Conventions if the prisoners ended a previous hunger strike. 
Sgt. Justin Behrens, another Guantanamo spokesman, denied that the military had reneged on any promises. He said each cell block has cho­sen a prisoner to talk with military authorities about conditions at the camp. 
NETHERLANDS 

Dutch millionaire's daughter kidnapped 
Associated Press of Hans Mclchers, who owns 
Melchemic Holland BY, whkh 

AMSTERDAM -Armed supplied chemicals to Iraq in men broke into an upscale the 1980s. It was unclear Amsterdam home and kid­whether the kidnapping was napped the daughter of a mil­related to the company's busi­lionaire whose fortune came ness dealings. from selling The woman's two chemicals, young children including to 'flt this moment we were left in the 
Iraq in the house in a south­
don't know where
1980s, police ern Amsterdam
she is." 
said Tuesday. neighborhood, Her children police said. The were left kidnappers bound
Wlllem Woelders 
unharmed. and gagged a
Amsterdam pollee
Police said neighbor who was 
commissioner 
in the house, and

the gunmen stormed into the home of Claudia Melchers, 37, late Monday and took her away. They .said they were treating it as a kidnapping. 
Melchers, who runs a cater­ing company, is the daughter 
he was later freed by one of the chi!­dren. 
"At this moment we don't know where she is," police commissioner Willem Woelders told Dutch NOS tele­vision. "Anybody who has information about where she is should contact us so we can get her home safe." 
Police circulated a photo­graph of Claudia Melchers and sealed on· the house. 
Melchemie has been at the center of accusations in the Dutch media of illegally sup­plying banned chemicals to Iraq in 1984, but it has denied intentionally violating export restrictions. 
A statement posted on Melchemie's Web site acknowledged overlooking a chemical that could be used for poison gas in an export deal with Iraq but said the company recalled the ship­ment before it reached its destination. 
It called the shipment "a one-time mistake" for which it paid a fine currently equiv­alent to more than $55,000. In 1989, it supplied chemicals to Iraq that were not under any international bans, the Web statement said. 
Melehemie had $76 million in sales in 2002. It is wholly owned by Hans Melchers, who inherited it in 1986. He is one of the country's riehest men, with a fortune estimated at $500 million, according to the business magazine Quote. 
No one answered the tele­phone at the company's listnd number following the police announcement. 
Kidnapping for ransom is rare in the Netherlands. The most famous case was the abduction of beer tycoon Freddie Heineken in 1983, for which the kidnappers were paid $10 million. The two kid­nappers were released after lengthy prison terms, and one was killed last year in a gang­land-style shooting. 
In 1998, Hansje Boonstra­Raatjes, then a 62-year-old socialite and estranged wife of the chief executive of Hoyal Philips Electronics Co., was kidnapped and later found beaten and handcuffed. No ransom was demanded. 
At least three other high­profile kidnappings were reported in the 1980s, includ­ing the 1987 kidnapping and murder of grocery multimil­lionaire Gerrit-Jan lleijn, who was murdered even as his company, Ahold, paid a ran­som then worth $3.7 million and 1,000 cut diamonds. 
Heijn's murderer was later arrested and jailed for 20 years. 
page 10 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, September 14, 2005 
UNITED NATIONS 
Annan disappointed in refor111 docu111ent 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS-The U.N. General Assembly on Tuesday adopted a watered-down docu­ment on poverty, human rights and U.N. reform for world lead­ers to approve at a summit this week, after shedding many of Secretary-General Kofi Annan's most ambitious goals during weeks of bitter debate. 
The compromise 35-page doc­ument is supposed to launch a major reform of the United Nations itself and galvanize efl'orts to ease global poverty. But to reach a consensus, most of the text's details were gutted in favor of abstract language. 
A definition of terrorism and details on how to replace the dis­credited U.N. Commission on Human Rights were not includ­ed. U .S.-led efforts to overhaul 
U.N. management have been diluted, while nuclear nonprolif­eration isn't mentioned at all. 
"Obviously we didn't get every­thing we wanted and with 191 member states it's not easy to get an agreement," Annan said. "All of us would have wanted more, but we can work with what we have been given, and I think it is an important step forward." 
Annan had gambled that by ealling the summit -the largest gathering of world leaders in his­tory -he could push through a list .of sweeping 
U.N. reforms and refi>cus attention 
on the ''All of us would rorists, leading to 
Millennium have wanted more, deadlock. Development "The big item
but we can work

Goals, a set of missing is nonprolif­targets for eration and disar­
with what we have reducing poverty been given, and I mament," Ann&n and disease by said. "This is a real
think it is an

2015. disgrace." 
But diplomats important step He did not men­said they had forward_,, tion countries that lowered their got in the way of the expectations in initiatives he sought. 
Kofi Annan

the last few days "There were spoil­
U.N. Secretary

because the ers also in the issues were too General group. Let's be quite 
never thought it would be." 
Though Annan said he was mostly satisfied, the document was a significant step backward for him. In March, when he had unveiled his proposals, Annan had urged world leaders to expand the size of the Security Council, come up with a defini­tion of terrorism and accept that they have a "responsibility to protect" those being killed, which requires collective action. 
And last week, a committee investigating the scandal-tainted 
U.N. oil-for-food program had called for wide-ranging manage­ment reforms. The committee, Jed by former U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker, said that the United Nations would need a complete overhaul to tackle programs like oil-for­food in the future. 
But efforts to expand the coun­cil were abandoned because of longtime national differences. "Responsibility to protect" was whittled down to nations' obliga­tions to protect their own citi­zens. The document says nations should "make all efforts" toward a convention against terrorism but c:loesn't try to define it. 
Annan called the failure to mention nonproliferation the biggest letdown. The United States had vehemently objected to focusing on disarmament by major powers rather than on the 
spread of nuclear weapons among rogue states and ter­
contentious. Still, they called the document a breakthrough after so much debate, especially because many had started the day pessimistic that they would have an agreement at all. 
Several were pleased with the creation of a peacebuilding com­mission and a long section on development. That includes a mention of the desire by "many developed countries" to spend 
0.7 percent of their gross nation­al product on development. 
"Don't expect Rome to be built in a day, it wasn't," Britain's U.N. Ambassador Emyr Jones-Parry said. "Against the difficulty of this negotiation, its complexity, this is a very substantial gain." 
The outgoing president of the General Assembly, Gabon's Jean Ping, presented the compromise Tuesday afternoon in hopes of bridging the deepest divides and moving away from bitter line-by­line negotiations that had bogged down the debate. 
Ambassadors including John Bolton said the document was just a step in a long process. It leaves many details for the U.N. General Assembly to settle in the coming months. 
"It would be wrong to claim more than is realistic and accu­rate about what these reforms are," Bolton said. "They repre­sent steps forward, but this is not the alpha and the omega, and we honest about that," 
Annan said. "And I must say that during this process in the last couple of weeks, I think some delegations focused on the trees and missed the for­est." 
The diplomats' inability to agree to a stronger document disappointed non-governmental organizations. They faulted Cuba, Pakistan, Egypt, Iran, Syria, the United States and Venezuela as the nations that created the biggest obstacles. 
Rights groups also fear that leaving the tough decisions to the 191-member General Assembly, where even seemingly innocuous initiatives can stall for years, is the quickest way to sink Annan's agenda. 
"There is very little to cele­brate in the latest UN Summit outcome document," Nicola Reindorp, head of Oxfam's New York office, said in a statement. "We wanted a bold agenda to tackle poverty but instead we have a brochure showcasing past commitments. 
Cuba and Venezuela were the only two countries which formal­ly expressed reservations against the document. They protested that the document was pushed through the General Assembly before it was translated from English into the five other official 
U.N. 
languages, a violation of 

U.N. 
protocol. 


GERMANY 
Rumsfeld seeks NATO takeover 
Defense Secretary denies rumors that United States is leaving Iraq 
Associated Press 
BERLIN -NATO should ulti­mately take over anti-terror­ism operations in Afghanistan handled by the U.S.-Ied coali­tion, Defense Secretary Donald 1-1. Rumsfeld said Tuesday, but he refused to set a timetable for drawing down American troops. 
Speaking to reporters at the beginning of a two-day NATO meeting, Rumsfeld also reject­ed suggestions that the United States might begin pulling troops out of Iraq by the end of the year, saying the departure would be determined by what is occurring in that country. 
"It's all condition-based," Rumsfeld said. 
Affirming that position was the British defense minister, John Heid. 
"We are in Iraq for as long as it takes to solve the problems in Iraq," Heid said, "until the job is done." 
More detailed talk was stifled by fears about increased vio­lence accompanying parlia­mentary elections in Afghanistan scheduled for this coming weekend, as well as the upcoming elections in Germany, where some have openly opposed any increased combat missions for NATO. 
Afghanistan's elections come four years after the U.S. invad­ed the country to overthrow the Taliban. Insurgents have vowed to disrupt the balloting. 
Rumsfeld said NATO's move to take on a larger role in Afghanistan, including drug interdiction, will be a key topic of discussion throughout the meeting. 
"Over time it would be nice if NATO would develop countert­errorist capabilities which don't exist at the current time," he said. 
NATO has 11,000 mostly European troops providing security in northern and west­ern Afghanistan. Around 19,000 U .S.-led troops cover the south and east. 
NATO plans to expand slowly its peacekeeping role and eventually take primary responsibility for security in the country. Thirty-five coun­tries have troops in Afghanistan, including a num­ber of non-NATO nations. 
Under the NATO plan, German troops will take the lead role in the north, Italians in the west, British in the south and Americans under NATO command in the east. French and Turkish troops will lead in Kabul -working alongside Afghanistan's fledgling army and police. 
Rumsfeld said he is also urg­ing his defense counterparts to find ways to increase the mili­tary flexibility of NATO's forces and the financing for the alliance. Several countries put limits on the military activity their forces can engage in as part of NATO, such as limiting where they can go or what type of combat force they can use. 
Rumsfeld declined to single out which countries he felt posed problems. He said there are 17 pages of edicts limiting where troops can go and what they can do. 
"Different restrictions on 
national forces makes it enor­
mously difficult for command­
ers to have the flexibility to 
function," said Rumsfeld. 
In addition, he said a funding 
increase is needed because 
some smaller countries have 
lower defense budgets or must 
plan their spending so far in 
advance that it makes it diffi­
cult for them to respond quick­
ly to changing military needs. 
Humsfeld said he hopes that 
changes in the structure of 
NATO will eventually allow the 
alliance to reduce some of its 
forces in Kosovo as well. 
Humsfeld plans to meet pri­
vately with several of his col­
leagues Wednesday, inducting 
Russian Defense Minister 
Sergei Ivanov. 
Meanwhile, Afghan President 
Hamid Karzai said the U.S.-led 
coalition needs to reconsider 
the way it is fighting Taliban­
lcd rebels. His comments came 
after six months of fierce bat­

tles that have left more than . 1,200 dead. 
"We and the international 
community, the coalition, must 
sit down and reconsider and 
rethink whether the approach 
to the threat of terrorism that 
has [been] taken is the 
absolutely right one," he told 
British Broadcasting Corp. in 
an interview broadcast 
Tuesday. 
lie suggested combating the 
problem where "terrorists are 
trained" but declined to elabo­
rate. 
Afghan officials say many 
insurgents train in secret bases 
in neighboring Pakistan, 
despite denials from 
Islamabad. 

ANOTHER BENEFIT TO OUR ONLINE EDITION: 
FIND CASH FOR COLLEGE. 
Click on the scholarships link on the top bar of our site, and browse a scholarship search to connect with over 650,000 scholarship awards, worth $2.5 billion. 
Visit www.ndsmcobserver.com 
powered by: 


Wednesday, September 14, 2005 
The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page II 
Owners get homicide charge 
Louisiana Attorney General investigates 34 nursing home deaths 

AP 

Bodies were gathered In the Chapel at Memorial Medical Center, Baptist Campus In New Orleans Sept. 5. Memorial Medical Center Is also being Investigated by the Attorney General. 
Associated Press 
BATON HOUGE, La. -The husband-and-wife owners of a nursing hon111 nnar Nnw Orlnans wnrn ehargnd Ttwsday with negligent homi­cide in the deaths of 34 peo­ple during the f'looding unleashed by Hurricane Katrina. 
Tlw ease represents the first major p rosee utin n to eo me out of the disaster. 
T lw ow n e r s o f S t. Hi t a 's Nursing Home in Chalmette "wPrP asked if they wanted to movl' !the patients!. They did not. They were warned reptHttedly that this storm was eoming," Louisiana Attorney (;tHwral Charles Foti said. 
"In pf'feet, thoir inaction rnsultl'd in the deaths of these patients," Foti said. 
Salvador A. Mangano and his wiftl, Mable, surrendered and wnrtl jailed on 34 eounts of negligent homieid11. Eaeh count earrins up to fivo years in prison. 
The attorney general said he is also investigating the discovery of more than 40 corpses at flooded-out Memorial Medical Center, in New Orleans' Uptown section. 
The victims at St. Rita's died Aug. 2Y. the day the hurri­cane hit, and on Sept. 6, at least 14 unrecognizable bod­ies were still inside the nurs­ing home, the New York Times reported last week. 
St. Bernard Parish Councilman Hicky Melerine said the water rose three feet in 15 minutes that morning and then fWen faster, the Times said. 
Several men tried to rescue the nursing home's residents by f'loating them out on mat­tresses, and others were able to walk to a sehool, the Times said. In all, the home had about 60 residents. 
There were apparent efforts to fight the incoming water inside St. Hila's. A table was nailed against a window and a couch was pushed up against 
a door, the Times said. There was also evidence that water had reached the roof. 
The owners had an evacua­tion plan as required under state law and a contract with an ambulance service to evac­uate the patients, but they did not call the company, Foti said. 
They also turned down an offer from St. Bernard Parish officials who asked if the nursing home wanted help evacuating, he said. The home is about 10 miles southeast of New Orleans in an area of heavy devastation. 
Foti said the bodies have not all been identified and he was not sure how many of the vic­tims were patients or staff. 
"They had a duty and a standard of care to people who could not care for them­selves," Foti said of the own­ers. "If you or I decided we are going to stay, we do it of our own fret~ will. ... The peo­ple at the nursing home don't have that choice." 
Bush consults China's Hu about Korea, Iran 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -Prnsident Bush sought China's hnlp to stop nuchmr weapons programs in North Korna and Iran and won a pledge from Prnsident llu .Jintao on Tuesday to step up prnssurtl on Pyongyang for progress in six -nation negotiations. 
The two loaders met hero on the eve of a resumption of talks in Beijing aimed at persuading North Korea to abandon its nuclnar weapons. 
Bush said his diseussions with Hu ranged from how to prevent an avian flu pandemic to eco­nomic matters and l'nared nuclear proliferation in North Korea and Iran. lie seemed pleased when llu said, "We stand ready to step up our com­munieation and cooperation" to gain fresh progress in negotia­tions with North Korea. 
Without elaboration, Bush said he planned to raise human rights abuses in China with I Iu. For his part, llu bluntly asked Bush to "join the Chinese side in safeguarding peace and stability aeross the Taiwan Strait" and said "it is inevitable that we may have some fric­tions" over 
trade as "What I would like last month. Iran's Beijing has a foreign minister,
to stress here is 
massive sur­Manouehehr
that China does not
plus. Mottaki, warned of Bush met pursue a huge serious conse­with Hu at the trade surplus in quences if thn 
end of a busy Security Council con­
trade with the 
day of diplo­siders sanctions. macy stretch­United States. " Bush raised nyn­ing from the brows at his news White House to conferenee by
Hu Jlntao 
the United appearing to give
President of China 
Nations. The president, at a news conference in Washinhrton, issued a stern warning to Syria about alleged involvement in Iraq and vowed the United States will not waver from its eommitment in Iraq. 
Consumed by llurrieane Katrina reeovery em1rts fiJr two weeks. Bush pivoted to li1reign policy for a meeting of more than 160 presidenlc;, prime min­isters and kings at a summit on combating poverty and reform­ing the United Nations. Bush is to addrnss t.lw General A'istmJbly on Wndnnsday. 
Bush has had a testy rnlation­ship with the U.N., portraying it <L'> a bloatt'd burPaucraey slow to address global problems. Criticism of tlw Unit11d StatPs is eomn1on. particularly ovPr tlw war in Iraq and Bush's rnfusal to sign tho Kyoto tmaty on globill warming. Bush arrived hore with the lowest approwd ratings of his prPsidnncy and the per­ception that his administration had mishandled hurrkane rnlinf. I le said he took rnsponsibility fi1r whatever had gone wrong. 
Bush met privately in a hot11l suite with llu, making his first visit to thn United States as his country's leader. The Whitn House is concerned about China's growing eeonornic and military might and il'> voracious thirst fi1r oil -a faetor in rising 
U.S. gmmline prices. 
The Bush administration is seeking the support of China, Hussia and India to bring Iran befhre the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions for il'> sus­pected nuelear weapons pro­gram. Iran susptmdnd uranium conversion and enrichment 
activities last year but resumed them 

Tnhran a gmen light for a pea<~nful nudear program. 
"Some of us are wondnring why they nned civilian nuclear power anyway. Tlwy'rn nwash with hydrocarbons," the prnsi­dent said. "Nevertheless, it's a right of a government to want to have a eivilian nuelear pro­gram." But he went on to say there must be· guidnlines and "one sueh guidt~line would lw in sueh a way that they don't gain the nxpnrtise nncnssary to bn able to enrich." 
China ha'> a massiw surplus in trade with lhe United States. I.<L'it year's U.S.-China dnlkit hit a rncord $162 billion, the largt~st irnbalane11 ever rncorded with a single c:ountry. 
Hu promised to "work hard" to addrnss the trade imbalarm• and said China will protect tlw intelleetual property rights ol' Amnrit~an companies -a m<~jor eoneern of U.S. firms. 
"What I would Iikl' to strnss hnrn is that China dons not pur­sun a huge trade surplus in trade with thn Unitnd Statns," llu said. 
Bush bngan tlw day at tlw Whit11 Ilousl', mneting with Iraqi Pn~sidPnt Jahtl Talabani. Ont·.e again. tlw two l11adnrs rPfusPd to Sill a dPadlinP fin· tlw withdraw­al of U.S. troops from Iraq. 
"Today, American and inter­national prnsenen in Iraq is vital," Talibani said. 
"We will set no timntabln for withdrawal, Mr. Presidnnt," Talibani add11d. 
m~ "When i1:'s 1:he prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-yr Job In the l'ar east. strategically chosen to nudch your career goals. Apply by Nove111ber 4. 2005. 
lntsrastBd? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end ofMay. 2006) an ND degree? No east-Asia axpertence? For more Information. con1act Mrs. Nancy O'Connor(nmee@nd.edu) 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 12 Wednesday, September 14, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat l..(:onard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 News DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either· institution. The Observer reserves.the right to refuse . advertisements basel! on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoinr space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must indude conract information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Claire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obse.rvtr (USPS 599 2·4000) is puhli$h<d Monday through Friday ex<:tpt during exam and vacuion ptriods. A subscciptlon ttl The Ob~r is $100 for one academic year: S55 fur one semester. 
The Obscrvtr is published at:: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrw:ions ((): Notre Dame. IN 465S6..0n9 The CJb.er= Periodical post~e paid at Nouc Dame: P.O. So• 779 and additional mailing offices. Ol-4 South Dining HaU 
Nom Dame, lN 46556-ontJ 
The Obsctvet is a member ofthe Associated Pres:~. All reproduct:im) rights .lre reserved. 

Good job hunting 
I suppose Notre Dame does a good job of filling us with enough anxiety and terror concerning our post-grad life. The barrage of Career fairs, expos, seminars and prac­tice meetings is starting to drive me a little crazy especially now that I am a senior. Thus, instead of getting asked about my future plans by my family members and under­classmen who thought I was a senior, I get asked the fateful query almost every day. 

Kama ria 
Every time someone 
Porter
asks about my future plans, I think about that scene in Good Will K-Mart's Blue Hunting where Matt Light Special 
Damon tells Robin Williams he wants to be a shepherd and have a flock to tend. That option is looking sweeter every day-a quiet lile, working with things that do not talk and basically making my own hours. Hmmmm. Then I remember I do not like sheep and return to reality. 
For anyone preparing to enter the Career Fair this eve, I would like to share with you my philosophy of post-grad, whether you like it or not. 
First rule: Have your own standards. It is your life and your decision. We should get excited at a job prospect. Work is so cen­tral to our "selves." .Through our labor we not only take care of ourselves, but also get a chance to contribute to our world, and if we are lucky, can be creative and express ourselves. So the questions we should be asking ourselves -what would make me most happy to do? Can this job allow me to innovate within the ranks? 
Second rule: Do not fret over the resume. This kind of only applies ifyou are going to get some face time with the employer. I think it is so much more impressive to con­vey yourself with expressive and genuine stories of your experiences. Think to those rare jewels you have in your life, the times where you shined, conquered or failed miserably but picked yourself up valiantly. Laying those babies out there to employers will be so much better than a fancily word­ed resume or a robotic set of responses. 
Third rule: Do not feel like you have to go to every Career Center event. Instead, try having a few heart-to-hearts with friends, clergy, faculty and others on cam­pus about this job process. The people you end up flying with -whether it's the lefty justice crowd or young Fortune 500-ers ­know stuff about jobs and programs that might fit you, since they know you. 
Fourth rule: Check out the labor condi­tions. This may be easy to overlook, but it is vital. Ask ifan employer or program offers health insurance. Find out what kind of starting hours are expected of you. Wonder if this company is currently being boycotted or having labor abuses. We are all going to be invited to sign the Pledge of Social Responsibility, which affirms we will take the teachings of social justice and responsibility with us beyond Notre Dame to our careers and lives. Apparently, from our marketing image, we are a school with a "Higher Education," so we should emerge from that to work for places that uplift human dignity, social justice and the common good. 
So, I shall not be attending tonight's career fest for two reasons: no career that fits my standards would be there and I am really not that anxious about post-May 2006. I am taking a more relational approach: looking at what is in front of me, talking to friends and guides about possi­ble options and making connections through my existing social networks. Also, I have got one definite job in the bag already. Jealous much? Seriously, I do have a good prospect if a want it and I never wrote a single resume, did a single nervous interview or any of that othnr song and dance. I reached into my own network of relationships, told good stories about myself and was serious about making my preferences known. 
So do not freak out about this career stuff; resourceful people who know otl1er people of like intoresLo;; should not have a problem getting something together. Yet, I do not want to ao;;sume most of my rnaders have personality and grace, so if you are one of those people, do not go to the Career Fair. Instead, go to LaFortune or Legends, mingle, meet some people and grow some social skills and backbone. It would be far worse to leave college with a job, but no style, personality or sense of self. Mock interviews will not teach you how to live and interact; we each have to force ourselves to learn that lesson. And do not sell your soul fi)r a huge paycheck. Working 100 hours a week for a fortune is not what I call living; it looks more like dying. 
Kamaria Porter is a senior history major and takes Fridays off Contact her at kporter@nd.edu, but only as a last resort for real conversation. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Unruly fans hurt everyone 
I am profoundly disappointed to read of the inappropriate and responsible for the poor behavior at Michigan think about the classless behavior of a group of Notre Dame students at the recent effect their behavior has had on themselves, their innocent class­Notre Dama!Michigan game (Andy Schor's Sept. 13letter to the mates and the legions of alumni around the world. Any Notre editor). I attended the Notre DameJPitt game two weeks ago and Dame alumnus will tell you that we often have to defend Notre was appalled by similar behavior from the Pitt students. There Dame to its detractors. Previously, the detractors have been jeal­were many Notre Dame fans around me who behaved admirably. ous of all that Notre Dame has to offer to those of us lucky enough Many of my friends who are Pitt fans that were scattered around to be able to attend the University. Now, we are faced with the the stadium were similarly impressed with the behavior of Notre indefensible, inexcusable, inappropriate and crude behavior of a Dame fans and students that had made the trip to Pittsburgh. I small but vocal few that have cast a pall on what otherwise could was in the process of preparing a letter to the Chancellor of the be an exciting season for Notre Dame football which ultimately University of Pittsburgh regarding the Pitt students' behavior, but would benefit the University, its students and alumni. now I have no credibility to do so, and I am ashamed to be an I enjoy the excitement of Notre Dame football and all the rivalries alum of a University whose students, alumni and faculty take with worthy opponents like Michigan, and I encourage healthy sup­pride in the Catholic tradition. Maybe all the people who have port of the competition by fans of both competitors in any football complained about the ad emphasizing Notre Dame's Catholic tra­game. I'm glad that the inappropriate behavior was limited to a dition will have their wish answered when Notre Dame decides to small minority of the Notre Dame student body. I believe, however, pull the ad because the University does not believe that the that those responsible for tho poor behavior owe an apology to Catholic tradition depicted in the ad accurately reflects the values their fellow students, Notre Dame alumni, faculty and administra­of its current students because of the behavior of a group of stu­tion and to the fans of the Michigan Wolverines. I look forward to dents. attending several games this season and hope that the experience 
There is a more practical and tangible effect of the inappropri­won't be marred by childish behavior from individuals that arc ate behavior described in previous letters to the editor. In any expected to be sufficiently mature to leave home and attend college given stadium, there can be anywhere from 5,000 to 20,000 in preparation for being productive and valued members of society. potential employers, not to mention the television audience. I com­mented to the fans sitting near me at the Notre Dame/Pitt game Anthony Watson, M.D. that the Pitt students' inappropriate and crude behavior will come alumnus to mind every time I see a resume with University of Pittsburgh Class of I 987 listed under Undergraduate Education. I hope the students Sept. 13 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

OBSERVER POLL
Kate Antonacci Kate Gales Lisa Schultz Kevin Brennan Brian DeSplinter Anna Fricano What color are you Viewpoint Scene 
wearing to the home 
Alyssa Ram a 

football game this 
Brauweiler Gottumukkala Graphics Brian Doxtader Saturday? Kelly MacDonald 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
jSubmit aLetter
~ '' ' ' ' ' N '•' ,, ,,•, ' ' ' ' ' 
"Ability is oflittle aqcm~;nt
wztliout opportunzty. 
,to the Editor at Napoleon Bonaparte former French emperor 
···~ www.ndsmcobserver.com
:t 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 14, 2005 page 13 
Curbing grade inflation 
Previous installments of this letter discussfld the University's mode of management and its public image, both issues your administration might want to address as it gets underway. We turn next to the problem of grade Kenneth inflation. Sayre 
Evaluating academ­ic work by grades is Guest relatively new on the Columnist mlucational scene. First came grading on a percentage seale (0 to 100). By the late 1930s, most American schools had shifted to lettm grades representing ranges of p11rcentages (e.g., A for the top 5 per­cent). An early step toward grade inflation occurred wlwn the bottom two-thirds of the percentage scale was droppnd, and passing grades began at about 70 percent. 
By the 1990s, grade inflation had lwcomn rampant across the nation. In I1J1J7 the median CPA at Prineeton was :L42 (a high B+). and 4(J pnreont of the gradns at llarvard worn As and A-s. Bntwnen IIJ1J!i and 2004. the percent­agn of Notr«> l>amt) undnrgraduatns IHtrning badwlor dngrens with honors (CPA of :~.4 or morn) inereased from :n 1wrcnnt to 54 perennt. 
Fnw serious ohservnrs doubt that avcwage gradns at colleges and univer­sitiPs are steadily rising. But there are serious debates about why this is m:curring, and about whether or not it is a good thing. Tlw position one takes in tlwse debates depends upon what cmP considers to be the purpose of grading in the first plaee. 
Sonw teachms view grades as an incentive for the development ot' stu­dent potential. If substantial advance is shown by the end of the term, then a high gradn is called for as a fitting reward. In the event that the majority of the students in the elass show sub­stantial dtwelopmnnt, then the majority have earned an A level grade. If not given to modesty, the instructor might take the high class av11rage as a sign of his or her success at inspiring stu­dnnts. 
Another view is that grades measure a studcmt's aehievern11nt against fixed norms that hold regardless of time and eireumstanc11. fUsing GPAs accordingly indicate rising levels of aehinvement. 
This might be due to more intellig11nt studnnts, better high school education or morn nffnctive tmu:hing by college professors. Passing out a largnr pro­portion of A lnvnl gradns when this happPns is like issuing morn driver's linHJses as more candidates pass the tests. Anyone should be rewarded who meets the basic requirements. 
From yet another perspective, grades are unsuitable as measures of student achievement. More appropriate are written evaluations tailored to individ­ual students. Instructors inclined 
toward this view may welcome grade 
inflation as a sign that the current 
grading system is undergoing self­
destruction. 
A more traditional view of grading is 
keyed to the conception of higher edu­
cation as a stepwise development of 
personal skills. In disciplines like 
mathematics, skill at the higher levels 
comes only after certain elementary 
stages have been mastered. In human­
istic disciplines like philosophy, simi­
larly, basic skills of critical thinking 
and conceptual analysis must be 
acquired before the student can move 
ahead to study at more advanced lev­
els. Comparable examples can be 
found in the performing arts, such as 
music, dance and theater. 
With this latter view of education in 
place, grading can be seen as a means 
of evaluating a student's readiness to 
movn on to further stages in the educa­
tional proeess. In any discipline worth 
studying, some students will learn 
more quickly than others. This mnans 
that somn students will progrnss fur­
ther than others by the end of the 
term. Grading in this context is a mat­
tor of distinguishing among (1) stu­
dents eminently qualified to go on, (2) 
those meeting basic requirements for 
advanemnnnt, (3) those needing addi­
tional study and ( 4) those unsuited for 
further work in the field. 
While some educational theorists 
today might reject this use of grading as too rigid and competitive, it is a use ·in which several key sectors of society 
have a vital interest. For example, uni­
versities rely on grade comparisons in 
admitting students for graduate train­
ing, and businesses rely on grades in 
selecting among candidates for highly 
responsible positions. Beyond this, 
there is the use of grades by the stu­
dents involved in evaluating their own 
progress in a given field. From the per­
spective of uses like these, grade infla­
tion has undesirable consequences. 
To see why, we should note first that the term "grade inflation" is a mis­nomer. In economics, inflation is a matter of prices rising generally for basic commodities. Goods remain dif­ferentiated in monetary value, but come at higher purchasing prices across the board. The equivalent in an academic context would be something like C work receiving Bs, B work receiving As, A work receiving double As, and so on until top work receives As several time over. 
What actually happens in academic grade inflation,howeve~isthatA remains the top grade toward which the others converge. Where a group of students once would have been evalu­ated across a scale ranging from F through A, grades rise until a compa­rable group is evaluated in shades of just B and A. What has happened is not really grade inflation (the top grade is still A), but grade compression instead. 
Grade compression is undesirable for numerous reasons. The basic problem is that it results in a loss of informa­tion. Whereas in most classes there is a discernable difference between C and B level work, that difference drops out when students performing at both levels receive a B. A consequence is that parties depending on grades as indicators of achievement-graduate schools, businesses, individual stu­dents themselves-can no longer rely on them as a basis for discriminating evaluation. The predicament is some­thing like trying to determine body tern perature with a thermometer cali­brated no more finely than by even degrees (94 degrees, 96 degrees, 98 degrees, etc.). 
Loss of information of this sort has long-range consequences that are even more dire. An educational system unable to distinguish superior from mer11ly above-average achievement will fall behind in the international competition for leadership in science and teehnology. In the political arena, similarly, democracy of any sort worth preserving depends upon habits within the community of' clear thinking and sound judgment that are instilled by philosophy and other critical disci­plines. The requisite training will not be forthcoming in educational systems incapable of' distinguishing several dif­ferent degrees of individual achieve­ment. 
For reasons such as these it is cru­cial that grade compression in the nation's colleges and universities be reversed, or at least arrested. And this requires a clear conception of the causes underlying the problem. While improved student performance might contribute to some extent, there are other causes that are probably more influential. 
According to some qualified observers, grade in11ation got under­way in the late 1960s as a result of the Vietnam War. Since good academic standing was a condition of student exemption from the draft, teachers stopped giving low grades as a show of concern. Similar motives are at work today as teachers assign higher grades to make their students more competi­tive in a tight job 111arket. 
A more direct influence, perhaps, is the intrusion of market forces into the academy. Within the last decade or so, a college degree has increasingly come to be viewed as a product for which customers (students and their parents) pay a very substantial amount of money. Customer satisfaction hangs on the quality of the product, which from this perspective amounts to an out­
standing GI'A. Professors accordingly 
feel increasing pressure to pass out 
grades that make the product they are 
delivering appear worth the price 
spent acquiring it. 
In most colleges and univorsities 
today, there are ways in whieh dis­
pleased customers can show their dis­
satisfaction. One is the Teacher Course 
Evaluations (TCEsl administered 
toward the end of each term. While 
many studies have boon dono of fac­
tors that influence evaluation of tnach­
ers by students, ol'ton with uncertain 
results, it has boon found eonsistnntly 
that the teachers who gradn leninntly 
receive highor evaluations from their 
students in turn. 
Beyond that, students understand­
ably tnnd to gravitate toward eoursns 
in which they can nxpnet high gradns. 
Sinc11 both low TCE scores and low 
dass enrollment aiT11ct chancns of pro­
motion and tenure, thorn is an intnnsP 
pressure on young faculty to be gnnPr­
ous in grading. 
One thing your nnw administration might do in rnsponsn to the looming thn~at of grade compression is to undertake a thorough study of how it is pnrc:nived by your faeulty. This study should eovnr pereeptions both of the extent of the threat. and of steps that might be taken to counter it ef'feetivnly. The study should be dnsignnd primari­ly by faculty with extensive dassroom experience, perhaps with the assis­tance of specialists in the construction of surveys. 
Pending results of' appropriato faeul­ty consultation along theso lines, thnre are at least three stop-gap measures that might be taken to bring grade compression under control. One is to conduct faculty workshops on the pur­pose of grading, in hopns of r11aching some kind of consensus among teach­ing faculty. Another is to revert to a grading system based on percentages, which should bo less prone to inflation than letter grades (not all member·s of a class can be in the top 50 percent). 
A further step is to mthink TCE proco­dures from the beginning. H11alistically speaking, it is countnrproduetive to sub­ject teachers to pmssures of consunwr satisfaction. TCEs in their prnsont form register little more than student approval, and on-the-spot approval is not a measure of' tnaching achinve­ment. Evaluation of TCEs is trnated in the final installment of' this letter. 
Kenneth .'iayre is a prc~fessor of phi­losophy. This column is the third in a four-part series addressed to new University President Father John Jenkins. Kenneth .'·iayre can be con­tacted at ksayre@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Support for the smoking ban 
I undnrstand Mr. Honderos' opinion in his Sept. 13 column concerning the proposed smoking ban in St. Joseph County. In fact, I believe it may go too far, but that does not mean that it should not exist. 
Both ol: my parents are smokers and have been for quite some time. I love them very mueh, but I cannot love their habit of smoking. They have smoked for nearly all of my lil'e. My father has tried very hard to quit many times and is in tho proeess of making another attempt. They know it's unhealthy and have fre­qunntly warned me not to "light up." They have done their best not to smoke around lllfl. As a result of their smoking, l have developed sports-induced asth­ma. Though this is not lil'e-threatening by any means, it has made it difficult for mn to participate in sports that involve running for extended periods of time. Also, there are times when I am around others and am asked if I smell smoke. I have no choiee but to reply that my parents smoke, to their skeptical responses of "Ynah. right." 
Mr. Honderos spoke of frontiersmen having "a fierce zeal to control their own fate." I, too, have that zeal. As nearly everyone desires, l want to live as Cull a life as possible, not to be cut down early by lung cancer caused by second-hand smoke. I do not want to be forced to inhale the tar and other chomieals that eig­arettes contain. I also do not want to be thought of as a liar b11cause I profess that l do not smoke even though I smell like the very viee that I despise. 
I believe that smokers do have the right to smoke if they so choose. If one tries to link that with one of Thomas Jefferson's unalienable rights, the pursuit of happiness, I have to ask one question: If stealing from my nt~ighbor would make me happy, why is that illegal, while smoking is not even thought of, though it also violates my neighbor's right to the pursuit of happiness? 
Josh Uniewski freshman Dillon Hall Srpr. 13 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, September 14, 2005 
DVD REVIEWS 

'Hustle' delivers martial arts masterpiece 
By MARK BEMENDERFER Assistant Scene Editor 
Stephen Chow is a creative genius. His films have a pure, original quality that is not often found in modern movies. "Kung Fu Hustle," his latest movie, is also perhaps his best one yet. 
The setting is Shanghai during the 1940s. The previous gang that reigned over the region, The Crocodile Gang, has just been replaced by the notorious Axe Gang. The sequence in which they come to power is both amusing and visually inspired to watch, a trait that defines the rest of the movie. 
Parallel to the Axe Gang plot is that of lowlife thug Sing, played by director Stephen Chow, and his sidekick Bone, played by Chi Chung Lam. They are two small-time thugs who are trying to prove their own notoriety and join the axe gang. 
The two try to pull a scam at a small slum complex, and inadvertently involve the· Axe Gang with the com­plex's affairs. From there, it becomes obvious that no one is as they seem. 
"Kung Fu Hustle" is a masterpiece. The back of the DVD case claims that it's a mixture of "Looney Tunes" and "Kill Bill," but even that description does not do the movie justice. It is quite simply like no other movie that has come before it. Even Chow's earlier works, while imaginative and creative in their own right, don't quite match the creativity found in his latest offer­ing. 

"Shaolin Soccer," Chow's previous work, was impressive. The very notion of combining soccer with computer rendered martial. arts may have seemed abstract, but it was pulled off to great effect. In a scene at the begin­ning of the DVD, Chow references "Shaolin Soccer" in a humorous way, giving fans of his work a treat. 
The video and sound are of the utmost quality, as can be expected from a Sony Classics release. It is a good thing too, as this is definitely a movie that appeals to the senses. The sheer imagery within the movie is worth at least a glance. 
In regards to sound, however, there is one complaint. Many film purists prefer to watch movies subtitled with the original language track playing. Normally that is a judgment call, but in regards to "Kung Fu Hustle," that 
would be a mistake. 
The subtitles are some of the worst to ever
Kung Fu Hustle 

grace a video, often hav­ing very little to do withWidescreen Edition 
what is actually being said. The dubbing is 
Columbia Tristar done much more effec­tively, and one can only assume its closer to its source material. 
The special features are also up to the Sony 

Classics standard, with enough to please any DVD aficionado. The com­mentary is good, as it contains not only the director but several of the stars giving their insights and stories about the film. 
"Behind the scenes of Kung Fu Hustle" is an amusing documentary behind the movie, also starring some of the film's stars. 
There are the standard deleted scenes and bloopers as well, some of which are good for a laugh. There is also an interview with Chow conducted by Ric Myers, a martial arts film author. It's a good way to round out the movie, completing it with some solid extras. 
"Kung Fu Hustle" should be watched by anyone who is interested in films. The movie is such an unusual, visceral experience that it would be a shame to miss it. 
Contact Mark Bemendeifer at mbemende@nd.edu 
Korea's vengeful dish best served 'Old' 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Assistant Scene Editor 
Park Chan-wook's "Oldeuboi" ("Oldboy") demonstrates that Korean films are suddenly at the creative fore­front of world cinema. Few films are as bold and strange, as its revenge story unfolds unpredictably into something much larger and more bizarre. 
Screened at the 2004 Cannes Film Festival, "Oldboy" marked a new high in Korean cinema as it surpassed the stan­dard Park set with "Joint Security Area" four years prior. 
The film's labyrinth plot begins innocu­ously enough, opening with Oh Dae-Su (Choi Min-Sik), an ordinary business­man, who gets drunk on his daughter's birthday. Oh Dae-Su is suddenly and mysteriously abducted. He spends years in a small room, being taken care of by unknown forces. 
Eventually he is let out into the world and immediately begins seeking revenge on his tormentors. This sets in motion the second act, which seems like a straightforward revenge plot. It is not until the shocking final act that the depth of the film's perverse logic becomes clear and "Oldboy" elevates itself into something far more than the sum of its parts. Its logic, while twisted, ultimately works and grants "Oldboy" a satisfyingly jarring conclusion that stays with the audience as few thrillers can. 

Like a Tarantino film, "Oldboy" is able to transcend its pulpy origins thanks to the directorial panache of Park Chan­wonk. Park's previous film "Joint Security Area" opened to critical acclaim and helped bring the director interna­tional notoriety. 
He brings the same energy and cre­ativity to "Oldboy." The film is fantasti­cally stylized and almost cartoonishly excessive, but the film's melodramatic style largely works. 
Much of the film's success can be attributed to lead actor Choi Min-Sik, whose staggering performance is the glue that controls the picture and holds it together. Choi runs a gamut of emo­tional and physical trials with conviction, which makes the more difficult aspects of the picture somewhat easier to han­dle. Among his highlights as a performer 
are a tracking shot in which he brutalizes a gang, and a scene involv­ing an octopus that can­not be adequately expressed in words. 
Gang Hye-jeong is also quite good as Oh Dae-Su's love interest Mido -her innocence and beauty provide a counterpoint to his crazed thirst for vengeance. Yu Ji-tae, as better DVD somewhere down the line. 

It's difficult to categorize a film like "Oldboy." The film is often difficult to watch, but it has such confidence and bravura that it's impossible to ignore. It is a significant milestone for Korean cin­ema and its key director, Park Chan­wonk, who asserts himself as one of the world's premier talents. 
"Oldboy" is recommended, but try not to eat anything before watching it. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
Lee Woo-jin, the film's antagonist, brings a melancholy sadness to a role that has a startling amount of depth. 
The DVD, as expected, has English subtitles to complement the Korean Dolby Digital 6.1 EX track. There is also an English dub track that should be avoided at all costs. Additionally, there is a commentary track from Park and cine­matographer Jeong-hun Jeong, an inter­view with Park and some deleted scenes with optional director's commentary. Though these features are all engaging, enough interest in the film may lead to a 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, September 14, 2005 
page 15 
MOVIE REVIEWS 
Atypical horror film fails to deliver scares 
By ERIN MCGINN 
Scrnr Criric 
"The Exorcism of l~mily Hose" sel<; iL<;elf up for failurn before tho audience evon b1~gins to watd1 the movie. 
I lad tho title been changed, so as not to indude "nxordsm" in the title, it arguably c~ould havo fan~d better. I lowevnr, as soon as any movie-goer hears the title, William Frimlkin's bar-setting "The Exorcist" is immediatdy brought to mind, and com­parisons lwtwnt~n the two movies are inevitable. As a horror film, "The 1\xordsm of l•:mily Hose" pales iri compari­son to tho ftmr ovoked in "The Exorcist," hut it is succnssful as a murtroom drama, bringing to tlw fornfront the debate of sci­ence versus rnligion. 
"Tiw 1\xorcism of 1\mily Hose" is based on tho truo events 
where she begins to show signs of posses­sion. The local pastor, Father Moore ("Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind's" Tom Wilkinson), is called in after Emily returns home, as she is unable to function within the college setting. He receives per­mission from the archdiocese and the ritu­als of exordsm are performed, eventually loading to Emily's death. 
The movie's main emphasis is not on the events leading up to, and surrounding, the exorcism itself, as in "The Exorcist," but instead on the trial of Father Moore. Laura Linney ("Mystic River") plays the agnostic defending attorney of Father Moore, whose own beliefs are called into question as the trial progresses. The scenes of the actual possession and exor­eism are shown through flashbacks as the twcnts are reeounted at the trial. 
While the movie brings to light numer­
ous thought-pro­
surrounding the voking questions
The Exorcism of Emily Rose
(;nrman eollngn stu­of the issues sur­dent Anneliese rounding faith Mielwl, who in the versus science, I<J70s was the sub­the f'ilm never jed of one tho rare really seems to
Director: Scott Derrickson 
exon:isms sanc­reach its full
Writer: Paul Harris Boardman 
tiotwd by the potential. The
Starring: Laura Linney, Tom Wilkinson,
Catholit: Church in character devel­
Campbell Scott and Jennifer Carpenter 
modern limos. opment of Emily 

Following tlw exor­cism. Anno Iinse diod of starvation and as a result hor parnnts and the priesl<; involved in llw exorcism were pul on trial!br negli­geneo loading to manslaughter. 
In this film. Emily Hose (.Jennifer Carp1mtorl loaves her rural town in order to att•md tho eity college on a seholarship, 
Hose leaves much to be desired, and there were some poor deeisions made regarding her scenes of possession. While they definitely had the potential to be truly terrifying, and at times almost are, they usually fall flat, mostly due to the subtitles. 
When Emily starts speaking in tongues, the filmmakers provide subtitles for her, which caused the audience to react with laughter rather than fear. The film also skims the surfaces of other points thal could have used better development. The viewer is led to believe that Laura Linney's character is beginning to experience some of the signs of possession, but that plotlinc never rna11y goes anywhere. 
Another area that eould have been fur­ther developed, and would've been highly interesting, concerns the reaction of the Catholic Church. In both the mm and the real-life ineident, the Church backed out and refused to defend its priest, to whom it had given permission for the exorcism. 
This is mentioned only briofly in tho movie, though it was an intriguing point that would've benefited from more atten­tion. 
While "The Exorcism of Emily Hose" definitely stands apart from other movins in its genre, it never manages to stand on its own two fept. 
Audiences looking for a typical horror movie are surn to be disappointed, and those looking for a taut courtroom drama will be less disappointed, but still nol entirely satisfied. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
'Gardener' lacks consistency and focus 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Assistarll Scrnc Editor 
"Tiw Constant Gardener" is one of those films that sweeps through with sueh bristling foree that it can fool crit­ics into thinking it's a great pieture. It's not. 
Its direetor, Fernando Meirelles, is without doubt a great talent-his pre­vious film, 2002's "Cidade De Deus" ("City of God") is easily a masterpiece, a term not to be thrown around lightly ­yet he seems to be at the root of the problnms with "The Constant (;ardener," as his hyper-kinetic style and heavy-handedness seem ill-suited to the material. 
The plot eoneerns low-level diplomat Justin Quayle ("The English Patient"'s Halph Fiennes), who meets and swiftly marries a radieal only a few days later -is jarring and mutes its impact. 
Additionally, the dichotomy between characters (the good guys are really good and the bad guys are really bad) is startling and insulting in a film so socially and politically aware. Its faux­cinema veritae style would indicate that there is a large amouni of' truth behind the fiction, but the implausibility of the antagonists dampens "The Constant Gardener"'s credibility. That actor Bill Nighy (the aging rock star from "Love Actually") plays the grand villain only aggravates the problem, as it is difficult to take him seriously after seeing him in so many comedic roles. 
Somewhere between playing and all­that-is-good .Jesus Christ all-that-is-evil Lord Voldemort, Ralph Fiennes found the time to play all-that-is-ordinary .Justin Quayle. The former English 
Patient seems 
named Tessa right for this role,
The Constant Gardener
(Hadwl Wnisz). a llitchcockian The film opons 
character who with her murder becomes a victim boforn flashbaeks of circumstances begin to unravel as he unravels Director: Fernando Meirelles 
the mystery sur­the grand con­
Writer: Jeffrey Caine 

rounding her spiracy.
Starring: Ralph Fiennes, Rachel Weisz, 
death. Quayle's Weisz is also
Bill Nighy and Peter Postlethwaite 
inVI~Stigation quite good as 
eventually unrav­els a grand eonspiraey that Tessa was trying to uncover, whieh involves phar­maeeutieal companies and their testing on African natives. 
Jeffrey Caine's much-lauded script is mor1~ problematic than it initially appears. llanging a love story around a larger, grander framework is nothing new ("Casablanca" did it baek in 1942), but the suddenness of the relationship -Tessa and Justin sleep together mere hours after meeting and are married 
Tessa, whose rad­ieal idealism is offset by human vulner­ability. The best performance in the film, however, may belong to Peter Postlethwaite (one of' the cinema's very best character actors), who is perfect in a too-brief role as a semi-crazed doctor whose motives are nebulous at best. 
Comparisons to a director's previous work are often inevitable, espechtlly when that director's last film was as stunning as "City of God." That picture was a tour de force in the best sense of the term, and "The Constant Gardener" takes the same kitehen-sink approach, but with more mixed results. Whereas "City of God" was ultimately invigorat­ing in its dynamic style, "The Constant Gardener" is exhausting. Its focus is all over the map and it runs too long at 130 minutes, though there are moments of brilliance scattered throughout, most notably a stunningly effective late-film raid. 

Ultimately, that lack of focus dooms "The Constant Gardener," which isn't as 
Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 

emotionally riveting as it wants to be. It is a good film, but not a great one, despite the critical hubbub surrounding its release. 
Meirelles will make better pictures than this, and odds are that he has another masterpiece or two up his sleeve, but those looking for "City of God Part II" won't f'ind it in "The Constant Gardener." 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 16 
Wednesday, September 14, 2005 
DPAC PREVIEW 
Singing for the prese~t 
Three-time Grammy winner Bruce Hornsby set to perform Friday 

Photo courtesy of the DeBartolo Center for the Pertorming Arts 
S T 0 R Y B y PATRICK R E I D Y 
B 
ruce Hornsby stormed onto pretive space to judge each masterpiece Recently Hornsby has recorded with looks to treat fans to an evening of old the music scene in 1986 with according to their own taste and per­Eric Clapton, Sting, Elton John and oth­and new, resting on his laurels only so his triple-platinum album spective. ers in the production of his latest album, far as his own musical talent and ambi­
"The Way It Is." This Friday "I always wanted my music to have a "Halcyon Days." Evoking hopes for the tion will permit. 
night, he graces the stage real strong sense of place," Hornsby future and memories of the past, The musical capacities of the Leighton and piano of the Leighton Concert Hall said on the biography section of his offi­Hornsby reflects on life with children Concert Hall will be tested through a at the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the cial Web site. "And I've always wanted and what it means to be a child. diverse repertoire packed with hits like Performing Arts, heralding an evening to find a place in my music to express "Most of this record is really influ­"Every Little Kiss" and "Mandolin Rain," of music that is sure to please audiences good playing also. I'm someone for enced by me being a parent," Hornsby music that will have fans both dancing both young and old. whom playing the instrument well is said on his site. "So much of it was writ­in their seats and soothed into a state of 
Three Top 20 hits from "The Way It really important." ten based on my experiences as a par­peaceful ease. Is," including the No. 1 title track, The Observer was unable to contact ent, worrying about my kids. It's Any question of Hornsby's devotion to launched Hornsby to the 1986 Grammy Hornsby for this article. inspired by trying to put myself in their his audience and performance is readily for Best New Artist. He went on to sell His music, both old and new, sends a shoes. It's tough to be a kid." answered by the singer. more than 10 million records and has strong message that Hornsby practices Combining with Elton John in "To be creative, spontaneous in the earned Grammys for Best Bluegrass what he preaches, and he practices "Dreamland," Hornsby sings a 21st cen­moment and make music in the present Recording and Best Pop Instrumental. well. tury lullaby to his and all sons dealing tense, that's what we're all about," he 
A pianist and composer, Hornsby has One of pop music's most in-demand with problems of self-esteem. "Gonna said. "I never liked to play the same challenged the parameters of the main­sidemen, Hornsby has played with the Be Some Changes Made," in Hornsby's thing every time . . . I think of my songs stream music world, as well as his own likes of Bob Dylan, Don Henley, Bonnie words, "is about any bumbling idiot who as living beings that evolve and change creative boundaries, finding inspiration Raitt and Willie Nelson. From 1990 can't seem to get his [stuff] together." and grow through the years." in a wide array of musical influence through 1992 he was also a part-time The album speaks to those with families Creative, spontaneous, making music including jazz, pop, classical, bluegrass, member of the legendary rock band the and those without alike, telling of trials in the present tense-Hornsby concert­rock and vaudeville. His songs never Grateful Dead, with whom he performed and errors in dealing with those you goers will leave satisfied and completed. cease to be lyrically clever and musical­more than 100 concerts in America and love and those you live with. ly formidable, permitting listeners inter-Europe. In his first trip to the DPAC, Hornsby Contact Patrick Reidy at preidy@nd.edu 
L_____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ _ 

... 
page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 14, 2005 
MLB 

Yankees score 17 runs in win over Devil Rays 
Five-run second inning lifts Blue Jays over Red Sox; Indians maintain Wild Card lead with defeat of Oakland 
Associated Press Philadelphia 5, Atlanta 4 was cut to 2 1/2 games with The Philadelphia Phillies' another disappointing loss to 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -young players again outdid Toronto, which is 72-72. 
Jason Giambi hit his 30th homer Atlanta's heralded rookies. 
and drove in five runs, helping Mike Lieberthal drove in the Cleveland 5, Oakland 2 
the New York Yankees rout the go-ahead run with a two-out sin­The lights went out for a while 
Tampa Bay Devil Rays 17-3 to gle in the sixth inning, leading before Ben Broussard restored 
nudge closer to first-place Boston the Phillies to a victory over the power for the Cleveland Indians. 
in the AL East. Braves. Broussard's second homer of 
Hideki Matsui and Jorge The Phillies remained one the game, a tiebreaking three­
Posada had four RBis apiece, game behind Florida in the NL run shot in the eighth inning, 
and the Yankees climbed a sea­wild-card race. They have won sent Cleveland to a victory over 
son-high 19 games over .500 to two straight over East-leading the Oakland Athletics and kept 
pull within 2 1/2 games of the Atlanta and four of five overall the Indians in control of the AL 
Red Sox. since being swept by the Astros wild-card race. 
Jaret Wright (5-2) allowed last week. Cleveland .was down 2-0 in the 
three runs and five hits in seven "We're relaxed, we're not pan­seventh when Broussard hit a 
innings, winning his third icking and we're not getting two-run shot. 
straight decision since coming off overly aggressive when we're The Indians started Tuesday 
the disabled list Aug. 15. He had down," said Billy Wagner, who with a one-game lead over the 
no decisions in his previous three earned his 34th save in 37 New York Yankees for the wild 
starts. chances with a scoreless ninth. card. They moved 2 1/2 games 
Giambi had a three-run homer One night after Eude Brito ahead of the Athletics. 
in the first and a two-run single pitched six scoreless innings in Kevin Millwood (8-11), ·who 
in the sixth, when New York his third career start, the Phillies hasn't gotten any run support all 
scored seven runs and batted again got contributions from season, didn't get any runs until 
around for the third time in the their youngsters. Rookie Ryan the seventh. He allowed one run 
game. Howard homered and doubled, and seven hits while lowering his 
The Yankees finished with 20 and Chase Utley drove in two league-leading ERA to 3.02. 
hits, 18 of them singles. After runs. The Indians turned a season­
getting just 12 homers and 40 Gavin Floyd couldn't match high five double plays, including 
RBis during an illness-filled 2004 Brito's performance, but kept one in the ninth when closer Bob his hometown team, and Carlos Washington's rotation with a 
season, he has reached 30 Philadelphia in the game, allow­Wickman took the return throw Delgado homered for the second gutsy effort, and the Nationals 
homers for the sixth time in his ing four runs in five innings in at first while tumbling over the straight game, becoming just the used a three-run third inning to 
career and driven in 79 runs. his eighth big-league start. bag. He fmished up for his AL­ninth player to hit 30 homers in beat Tom Glavine and the New 
Matsui went 4-for-4 with a "Surprised? Not really," Phillies Ieading 40th save. nine straight seasons. York Mets. two-run double and two-run sin­manager Charlie Manuel said. With the score tied 2-2, Travis Florida, which was outhit 9-6, Brad Wilkerson, Marlon Byrd ·gle. "As long as they stay focused on Hafner singled with one out in opened a one-game lead over and Preston Wilson each hit an 
Posada drew a bases-loaded what they're doing, they can do the eighth off Justin Duchscherer Philadelphia in the wild-card RBI single to help Washington 
walk in the first, then followed some good things for us." (6-4) and Victor Martinez sin­standings. win the opener of a three-game 
with a RBI single in the second Kenny Lofton went 3-for-3 with gled. One out later, Broussard hit Mike Lamb and Adam Everett series between teams barely on 
and two-run single in the sixth. a triple and scored twice for a towering shot to right that did­homered for the Astros, who lost the fringe of the NL wild-card 
Tampa Bay has been a trouble­Philadelphia. n't seem to want to come down. for the fourth time in five games race. 
some opponent for the Yankees, Andruw Jones had a three-run Right fielder Nick Swisher and dropped 1 1/2 games behind "We got it done tonight. We 
winning 11 of 16 games between double for the Braves, increasing parked under it on the warning the Marlins. struggled through it, and nothing 
the teams before Tuesday night his NL-leading RBI total to 124. track, and leaped at the wall., But With the score tied 2-2 and one ever comes easy for us. The 
to put a crimp in New York's bid the ball barely cleared his glove, out in the seventh, Juan Pierre bullpen did a good job," 
for an eighth consecutive division Toronto 9, Boston 3 landing in the first row of seats worked the count to 3-2 against Nationals manager Frank 
title. Keith Foulke seemed to sum up to give the Indians a much-need­Rodriguez (9-8). Before the next Robinson said. 
New York manager Joe Torre Boston's night when he plunked ed win in their playoff push. pitch, third base umpire Bruce Gary Majewski (4-3) pitched 
tinkered with his batting order, Eric Hinske. Dreckman cited Rodriguez for two scoreless innings for a victo­
moving Alex Rodriguez into the Gabe Gross hit his first home Florida 4, Houston 2 making contact between his ry, the Nationals' second in seven 
No. 2 hole, hitting Giambi third run in nearly a year during a An unusual call against hand and mouth or lips, a viola­games. 
and placing Gary Sheffield in the five-run second inning, and the Houston pitcher Wandy tion of baseball's rules, and But Robinson wasn't around to 
cleanup spot for the first time Toronto Blue Jays beat Boston Rodriguez helped boost the called ball four. see the end of it -he was eject­
this year. The moves paid inlme­Tuesday for their ninth win in 13 Florida Marlins' lead in the NL Garner and Rodriguez argued ed for the third time this season 
diate dividends. games against the Red Sox this wild-card race. in vain that the pitcher had in the sixth. 
The Yankees scored five times season. Juan Pierre walked in the sev­merely touched his nose. Substitute left fielder Marlon 
in the first and added five more Hinske yelled at Foulke after enth inning when umpires said "He didn't go to his mouth on Anderson ·homered and threw 
runs in the second, with the first the reliever hit him in the sev­Rodriguez touched his mouth the mound," Garner said. "He out Byrd at the plate for the 
seven batters reaching base in enth, one pitch after Shea with his hand while on the was simply sweating pvofusely Mets, who lost for the 13th time 
each inning against Doug Hillenbrand's RBI single gave the mound, and Paul Lo Duca fol­on his face and was wiping it in 16 games. They just returned 
Waechter (5-10) and Dewan Blue Jays an 8-3 lead. lowed with a tiebreaking, two­away." home from a 2-8 road trip to 
Brazelton. Foulke, who has struggled run homer that sent Florida vic­Florida, Atlanta and St. Louis 
According to the Elias Sports since he was activated from the tory over the Astros. Washington 4 that almost certainly dashed 
Bureau, the Yankees scored at disabled list on Sept. 1, allowed "It was a bad call. It was a New York Mets 2 their playoff hopes. 
least five runs in the first and two runs and two hits in one wrong call," Astros manager Phil Hector Carrasco hung right in With right-hander John 
second innings for the first time inning. Garner said. there against a pitcher with 598 Patterson recovering from a 
since a 14-7 win at Cleveland on Boston's AL East lead over the Josh Beckett (14-8) struck out more starts. sinus infection, the Nationals 
July 24, 2002. second-place New York Yankees eight over 7 1-3 innings against Carrasco filled a hole in needed to get creative. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame otlice, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
SPRING BREAKERS Book Early and Save Lowest Prices Hottest Destinations BOOK 15=2 FREE TRIPS OR CASH FREE MEALS/PARTIES BY 11n Highest Commission Best Travel Perks www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800-426-771 0 
WANTED 
Local family looking for part-time babysitter for two toddlers. Must love children! References required. EXPERIENCE A MUST. Transportation necessary. Call (574) 247-9213. 

$15/hr. babysitter for Oct. 15. 9 yr old girl from 12:30-6 in your dorm. 760 803-1153 
FoR SALE 
Brand new full mattress & box. Still in plastic. $120. Can deliver. 574-876-4474. 
Queen pillowtop mattress set. New with warranty. $155. Can deliver. 574-231-4522. 
CLAY TOWNSHIP home. $65,000. Land contract. Partially furnished 2·3 bdrm home, basement, garage, fenced yard. Near Clay schools, owner financing & home improvement allowance. Includes 1 year home warranty. Call574-250·8552. 
Excellent condition 1993 Nissan Pathfinder, 4x4, red. Price negotiable. 271-8829. 
Oakhill condo. 4bd,3bth,fin.basemt. ND 5 min. walk. Chris 574-210-4485. 
1 bdrm condo near ND. All appliances.$69,000. Call Kim Kollar 574-280-8160. 
FoR RENT 
LODGING FOR FOOTBALL GAMES Visit www.amishcountrybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and Breakfast Accommodations. Non-smoking, Private Baths, Full Breakfasts. 
GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH­BORHOODS andersonNDrentals.com 
1-bdrm apt. Quiet historic neighborhood. 1 mi. to ND. $575/mo. Call 283-0325 
Lakeside,MI cottage. Perfect for ND game weekends. 7732182203 
Available: ND-MSU weekend, nice 2-br apt. 5 mins from ND. Call JD 269-782-5181 or 574-208-1038. 
TICKETS 

WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE FOR $$: www. victorytickets.com 
BUYING & SELLING ND FOOTBALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911. 
WANTED: 4-6 MSU GAs together, Dave 248-760-1767 

BUY SELL OR TRADE ND FOOTBALL TICKETS. TOP$$ PAID. A.M. -232-2378 P.M.· 288·2726 
PLEASE HELP!!! Buying season tix GAs only or any game GAs. Call Mark277-1659. 
Need USC tickets. Can trade 2 Tenn tix or buy. Call Bill @856-968-4565/ 856-404-1970 
Wanted: 2 season tix & parking pass or 2 for any home game. 574-276-8507 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi­weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Shake that Lally Taffy 

Wednesday, September 14, 2005 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 

Your initiative is the engine of o~r growth. It starts with you. 
UBS is a global financial powerhouse because of the ideas, skills, and commitment to excellence of our employees. We offer talented individuals a world of opportunities. A diverse culture of mutual respect and support gives all our employees the opportunity to excel. Our world-class training prepares you to be successful. Your skills and ambition are recognized from day one. 
RESUME DROP REMINDER 

Investment Banking: September 18, 2005 Please apply online through your career services website. UBS is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity in its workplace (M/F/DN). 
You&Us *UBS
Wealth Global Asset Investment Management Management Bank 

~ 
.~ 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, September 14, 2005 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

USC looks to slow Razorback rushing attack 
Arkansas will pose a different challenge for the Trojan defense 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Southern California is gearing up to face the leading rushing team in the country, and Sedrick Ellis smiled at the thought of it. 
Ellis, a 6-foot-1, 285-pound sophomore, is the successor to standout nose tackle Mike Patterson in top-ranked USC's defensive line, and he's ready to get down and dirty in his second collegiate start when the Trojans (1-0) entertain Arkansas (1-1) in their home opener Saturday night. 
In USC's season-opening 63­17 victory Sept. 3 at Hawaii, Ellis and his running mates up front spent most of their time chasing quarterbacks because the Warriors threw 49 passes and netted 60 yards on 21 rushing attempts. 
That being the case, Ellis was involved in only one tack­le. He should have many more chances against Arkansas, which averaged 338.5 yards on 4 7 carries in beating Missouri State 49-1 7 and los­ing to Vanderbilt 28-24. 
There isn't a nose tackle on earth who wouldn't prefer stuffing the run over chasing a quarterback. 
That being the case, Ellis looks forward to playing Arkansas and the opportunity to make his mark. 
"You have to have a certain amount of confidence in your­self," he said. "If you don't have that confidence, you're not going to do what you're supposed to do." 

Ellis was used sparingly as a redshirt freshman last year, making just two tackles. He won the starting job by per­forming impressively in spring practice. 
Lining up next to Ellis is LaJuan Ramsey, a 6-3, 290­pounder who's replacing Shaun Cody at defensive tackle. 
to Z on the spectrum," Carroll said. "lt will pose a different . stress on our defense. There are many more teams like Arkansas who will mix their running game and their pass­ing game." 
The Razorbacks passed for 312 yards in their first two games -292 by Robert Johnson and another 20 by Alex Mortensen. 
Carroll pointed to missed tackles as his team's biggest 
problem in the 
Hawaii game. 

Ramsey didn't play much last year, either, and  "We have a great challenge to go out  "We just over­ran some stuff. We've worked on  
also made only two tackles. "They're gone," Ellis said, refer­ring to Patterson  every week and play at a high level. Every game's a championship  it," he said. "Hopefully we'll do better. We've certainly stressed that."  
and Cody. "They've been teaching the young guys the  game -it's been like that for three ,years.  Carroll said there's a sense of relief about com­ing off a bye  
way  to  do  it.  I  week and know­ 
more than wel­come that chal­lenge. Right now,  Pete Carroll USC head coach  ing his team plays on each of the next 10  
it's LaJuan's and  Saturdays.  
my challenge to  "It's really time  

replace them. I do realize for us to dig back in, do things there's a focus on the defen­the way you know how to do sive line. I think we'll be fine." them so we can undertake the 
It has to help to have a pair challenges of the season," the of returning starters up front coach said. ''I'm not real set­in defensive ends Lawrence tled where we are." Jackson and Frostee Rucker. Perhaps he will be after this 
USC coach Pete Carroll is weekend. He'd better be, glad his team will play a run­because the Trojans figure to ning team like Arkansas after be challenged the following a pass-happy team like two Saturdays with road Hawaii. games against unbeaten 
"It's a big switch. It's a big Oregon and No. 18 Arizona change for us. We go from A State in their first Pac-10 action. 

Carroll realizes several highly regarded teams includ­ing Michigan, Ohio State, Iowa and Oklahoma have already been upset victims this month. 
"We have a great challenge to go out every week and play at a high level," he said. "Every game's a championship game -it's been like that for three years." 
USC, trying to become the first football team ever to win three straight NCAA champi­onships, brings a 23-game overall winning streak and 21-game winning streak at the Coliseum into Saturday night's game. 
The Trojans have a 37-3 record since the start of the 2002 season and are 43-9 since Carroll took over as coach a year earlier. 
A crowd of at least 85,000 is expected to attend the home opener. 
HURRICANE KATRINA 

White Sox Charities raise $100,000 for hurricane victin1s 
Sports world quick 
to offer aid to those 
affected by Katrina 
Associated Press 
Chicago White Sox Charities and the team's fans donated $100,000 to the American Red Cross to assist the victims of Hurricane Katrina. 
The Audience Auction, Sox Split raffle and donations from fans, employees and staff brought in more than $40,000 during the recent homestand against Kansas City and the Los Angeles Angels. Chicago White Sox Charities donated almost $60,000. 
"None of us will ever under­stand the devastation of Hurricane Katrina, which has affected the lives of hundreds of 

. -thousands of Americans," White Sox chairman Jerry Reinsdorf said. "Our heart goes out to every person touched by this tragedy, and we feel humbled to be able to offer our support." The donation is part of efforts by Major League Baseball and its clubs to raise $3 million for hurricane relief. Outfielder Jermaine Dye and catcher Chris Widger recorded public service announcements that will be broadcast at U.S. Cellular Field through the end of the season. Autographed player items, including two White Sox jerseys, will be auc­
tioned online. Outfielder Aaron his family rode out the storm. Rowand donated $2,500 from 'Tm still trying to get them to his nomination for the 2005 come up and stay with me, but Roberto Clemente they won't," Award to the Myles said. "It's Chicago chapter of home, their roots, 
"Our heart goes out
the Red Cross. their whole lives. In other Katrina to every person It's kind of hard developments: touched by this for me knowing 
Tory James and that this has hap-·
tragedy, and we
three other pened and my Cincinnati Bengals feel humbled to be parents won't grew up in the Gulf able to offer our leave and there's area where nothing I can do
support."
Hurricane Katrina to get my people has scattered their up here. It's hurt­families and Jerry Reinsdorf ful every day, 
destroyed their White Sox Chairman stressful." homes. Greg Derek Fisher, Brooks and Chris Tamika Catchings 
Henry grew up in the New and Shareef Abdur-Rahim will Orleans area. Reggie Myles is join more than a dozen NBA from Pascagoula, Miss., where and WNBA players in a caravan 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents G 
v 
E 

MILTON MASCIADRI s 
T Double Bass Recital A Wednesday, September 14, 2005 R T 7:30PM s I Annenberg Auditorium T 
s

Snite Museum of Art E 
R I

Tickets available at Lafortune Box Office~ 637-8728 
E

$8 NDISMC Faculty/Staff~ $3 Students 
s 

of 20 tractor trailers that will depart Jackson, Miss., and deliver supplies to Hattiesburg, Biloxi and Gulfport. The men's and women's National Basketball Players' Associations are organizing the event, called "Operation Rebound." 
The University of South Carolina will collect money for relief efforts at Saturday's foot­ball game with Alabama. Cash donations will be accepted at the gates of Williams-Brice Stadium before kickoff. Half the money will go to the American Red Cross' local efforts, the rest to South Carolina Cares, which helps those who have relocated. 
The Oak Tree Racing Association, equine artist Fred Stone and top jockeys will join forces at Santa Anita on Oct. 1 to raise money for hurricane relief. 
Stone's artwork will be avail­able at reduced prices, and jockeys Eddie Delahoussaye, Kent Desormeaux and Gary Stevens will be among those autographing the art. Proceeds will go to the Red Cross. 

AROUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, September 14, 2005 
NCAA Men's Soccer Top 25 
team record points 
1 Indiana 3·0·1 396 2 New Mexico 4·0·0 381 3 UCLA 2·1·0 342 4 North Carolina 4·0·0 338 5 Connecticut 4·0·0 311 6 Virginia 2·0·1 292 7 Maryland 3·1·0 281 8 California 3-0·1 269 9 Wake Forest 3·1·0 267 10 St. John's 2-1-1 262 11 Duke 3-1-0 238 12 Creighton 2-0-1 229 13 Santa Clara 3-1-0 225 14 NOTRE DAME 3·1·0 216 15 Akron 4-0-0 185 16 UC·Santa Barbara 2·1·1 150 17 Fairleigh Dickinson 4·0·0 121 18 Memphis 3·0·0 103 19 Ohio Stale 3-1-0 79 20 Boston College 3·1·0 71 21 Washington 2·1·0 68 22 Alabama-Birmingham 4·0·0 52 23 Clemson 3·0·1 45 
CA Stale-Northridge 2·0·1 40 
NCAA Women's Soccer Top 25 
/('(1111 record points 
1 North Carolina 6·0·0 394 2 Penn Stale 6·0·0 375 3 Portland 6·0·0 372 4 Santa Clara 4·0·1 351 4 NOTRE DAME 5-1-0 342 6 UCLA 5·1·0 326 7 Florida 4·1·0 281 8 Duke 4·0·1 271 9 Pepperdine 5·0-0 248 10 Florida Stale 6·0·0 242 11 California 5·0·1 216 12 Boston College 4·0·0 204 13 Virginia 3·2·1 179 14 Texas A&M 3·1·1 169 15 Wake Forest 4·1·1 166 16 Wisconsin 4·1-1 163 17 Connecticut 4·2·0 132 18 Marquette 6·0·1 92 19 Illinois 3·1·2 89 20 Stanford 2·2·1 84 21 California Poly 5·0·1 72 22 Nebraska 4·2·0 63 23 Michigan 2·1·2 63 24 Utah 6-0·0 53 25 Texas 2+1 47 
Women's Soccer MIAA Conference Standings 
team conf. overall Alma 2·0 3·0 Hope 2·0 3·1 Calvin 1·0 2·1 Olivet 1·1 1·3 Albion 0·0 0·2 Kalamazoo 0·1 1-2 SAINT MARY'S 0·1 1·2 Tri-State 0·1 2·2 Adrian 0·2 1·4 

around the dial 
MLB 

Baltimore at Texas 1 :05 p.m., Comcast Cincinnati at Chicago Cubs 1:05 p.m., FOX Sports Chicago White Sox at Kansas City 7:10 p.m., Comcast Milwaukee at Arizona 8:40 p.m., FOX Sports 
CoMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
NFL 
Associated Press 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. ­Larry .Johnson turned him­self in to police Monday night after an altercation he had with his girlfriend early Saturday at a bar, the latest in a series of troubles with the law for members of' the Kansas City Chiefs. 
Police Department spokesman Darin Snapp said the Chiefs running back was cited for domes­tic abuse assault. Johnson posted bond and was released, with a court date set for Sept. 20 on the municipal charge. 
Snapp said the girlfriend came into the bar and saw Johnson with a different woman. Thn 25-year-old girlfriend, of Overland Park, Ka.n., saw Johnson and walked the other way, Snapp said, but Johnson text messaged her on her phone and asked her to meet him downstairs. 

The running back then grabbed the woman by the arm and pulled her to the front door, Snapp said, where Johnson asked the manager to make her leave. The manager said he couldn't do that. 
Snapp said Johnson became irate after his girl­friend confronted his date. The running back grabbed 
IN BRIEF 

NBA players raise money for 
Hurncane Katrina victims 
A handful of professional basket­ball players are going to spin the Wheel of Fortune to raise money for victims of Hurricane Katrina. 
Carmelo Anthony of Denver, Hay Allen of Seattle, Baron Davis of Golden State and Luke Walton of the Los Angeles Lakers are among 15 NBA and WNBA players teaming up with the television game show "Wheel of Fortune." The players will tape shows Thursday for the game show's NBA week, airing Oct. 31­Nov. 4. 
Eaeh player will be partnered with a fan from their team's city, and the fans will play for cash and NBA­themed prizes. 
The players will compete for their favorite charities and for the Red Cross, with a minimum of $100,000 of their winnings going to help llurricane Katrina relief' efforts. 
The eontestant from the team with the week's highest total winnings will the victim by the shoulders and shoved her, causing her to fall onto the floor, the police report said. 
The girlfrifmd told The Kansas City Star, in a story on its Web site, that thn police report was wrong and denied that she was pushed or dragged to the door. Snapp said the woman told police she did­n't want Johnson arrested, but instead just wanted the incident documented. 
Friends convinced the woman the next day to file a police report after seeing bruises on her arms, Snapp said. 
The accusations eome less than two years after 
page 21 
Johnson nntnred a diver­sion program for allegedly brandishing a gun during an argument with an nx­girlfrinnd at his honw. lin was eharged in Decnmbnr 2003 with aggravated assault, a felony, and rnis­dIHn nanor domostie bat­tery. 
Undnr terms of the divor­sion Johnson was rnquirnd to complete 120 hours of community snrvko, attend an anger managnmnnt course and stay out of trouble for two years. 
Johnson County prosecu­tor Paul Morrison said if it's detnrmined he eommit­tnd a criminal aet, his oflke would liln a motion. 

win a trip to the 2006 NBA All-Star ~tme in Houston. uamon will return to Red 
Sox lineup this Thursday 
TOHONTO-An MHI of Boston Red Sox outfielder Johnny Damon's left shoulder Tuesday showed no struc­tural damage. 
Damon didn't play in Boston's 6-5 win in 11 innings over Toronto on Monday night. lie has been playing with discomfort since injuring the shoulder on a slide against Baltimore on Sept. 4. 
"The report was as good as it could be," Boston manager Terry Franeona said. "Structurally there is no dam­age. r think he bruised that area. lie's got some swelling." 
Francona said Damon will remain in Boston for treatment while the Hnd Sox finish their Toronto road trip. Boston returns home to play Oakland on Thursday. 
"Even if he can't I play) the news is good. lie's going to bn OK," Franeona said. 
Gamboa returns to baseball,
this time in minors 
LITTLE HOCK, Ark. -Thn ques­tions are fewer now, the notoriety gone. Tom Gamboa is baek on the baseball field, not in the majors, but managing in thn minor lnaguns and finding peace and suecess away from the spotlight. 
"Time has a way of healing all that," he said. 
Gamboa now manages the l.os Angeles Angels' Doubln-A aiTiliate, and his Arkansas Travelnrs have reaehed thn Tnxas l.nagun ehampi· onship series in his first season. 
His lifn, onee so hectic, has returned to normal. In fact, wlwn Arkansas outfielder David Gates found out Gamboa had 
been  hirnd,  a  friend  needed  to  
remind him of' tho name.  
"lie was like, 'You rememb1~r  on  

TV a few years ago'?"' Gatns said. "I was like, 'Oh, OK."' 
Gamboa had bonn in baseball for almost 30 years. 
Wednesday, September 14, 2005 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
HURRICANE KATRINA 
High school football to continue for evacuees 

Associated Press 
DALLAS -Damien Allen tugs at his tight pants after each play, struggling to stretch a size L into an XL. 
The other players are wearing shorts. But not most of the evac­uees, who quickly pieced togeth­er their uniforms scavenging through leftovers in a sweat­scented equipment closet. Only some of the 13 found shorts and a few must share helmets. 
Monday was their first football practice at Madison, the desig­nated high school for students still living in mass downtown shelters nearly two weeks after Hurricane Katrina. They practice wearing colored paper bracelets that grant admission back to their cots and free meals ­orange for Reunion Arena, neon pink for the convention center. 
None are superstars or fixtures on recruiting watch lists. Head coach Ronald Johnson figures maybe two can contribute at the varsity level. 
Twice as many signed up last week, but they disappear once they find homes and leave the shelters. Fifteen passed physicals Friday and two moved to sub­urbs by the weekend. Johnson doesn't see many of the kids whose parents he met at the shelters, where Johnson and his statr navigated through a grid of cots in search of signed waiver forms. 
"Two more will probably be gone by tomorrow," said Johnson, who can only identify a handful by their first names. 
He doubts that some played football in New Orleans, even though many brag of throwing touchdown passes and anchoring defenses back home. One drill and Johnson knows better. If he's unsure, he quizzes them: What's a double-team block? When pulling right, which foot leads? 
Sophomore Michael Bridgewater played linebacker at Iliggins High School near New Orleans. His mother brought Michael and two cousins to 
. Reunion Arena after they could · no longer affmd staying at a Motel 6. He can't reach his girl­friend and doesn't know what happened to an uncle and four of his cousins. He's also, if he stays at Madison, an option at fullback. ''I'm homeless right now, but that's the last thing on my mind," Bridgewater said. ''I'm living in a shelter. I never thought in a mil­lion years I'd be living in a shel­ter. But don't feel sorry for me. Encourage me. That's why I'm out here." The evacuees stick together. They play catch during water breaks and crowd around leafing through a stapled playbook on the sideline. They seldom mingle with the other players. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
ATHENS, GREECE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Julliet Mayinja International Study Programs Office, And Returning Students 
**************************************************** 
Thursday, Sept. 15, 2005 5:30-7:00 PM 117 Hayes-Healy 
Applicaton Deadline: Nov. 15,2005 for Fall2006 and Academic Year 06-07 May, 1, 2006 for Spring 2007 Applications available on-line: www.nd.edu/-intlstud/ 

Come to the 
Emmaus Kick-Off for Free Ice Cre m 
and to meet staunch Emmaus Supporter, 
Alfonso Ribeiro!!* 
Monday September 19, 6:00-7:00pm in the Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Join a Small Faith-Sharing Group! 
*Disclaimer: The Emmaus team docs not have any actual proof that Alfonso Ribeiro will be attending the 
Emmaus Kick-Off, although we have prayed lervently for such a miracle. This advertisement does not ret1ecl Alfonso Ribeiro's real opinion about Emmaus Small Faith sharing groups. Alfonso Ribeiro, in all probability, has never heard about Emmaus groups. This whole ad is really nothing more than an elaborate charade (except for the part about the free ice cream, there will be plenty of free ice cream at the Emmaus Kick-Off). Although, maybe after he hears about the free ice cream, Alfonso will show up. 1mean, what else is he up to? 
Wednesday, September 14, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
Want to improve your Spanish or Portuguese? Come to an Information Meeting with program returnees to hear about. .. 


,anis~ and Portugue~e Lan~u~~~ 

Brazil Ecuador Spain Chile Mexico 

Thursday, Sept. 15, 2005 5Pill 155 DeBartolo 

www.nd.edu/-intlstud 
GAMING 
E-sports represent a new trend in gaming 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Is "frags Pf\r round" going to be the batting average of the 21st century? 
Professional computer gamers certainly hope so. 
Players of Counter Strike, a popular title in competition at the U.S. finals of the World Cyber Games last week, count their prowess in how many ene­mies they can shoot to pieces, or "fragment," in a frantic two­minute round of virtual gunplay. 
Time and demographies, boosters say, argue for videogame tourneys becoming the next big spectator sport ill the United States, where more than 108 million Americans now play computer games, according to the Yankee Group. 
They're already garnering big-name sponsors. 
"Kids in the early 1900s were playing baseball in dirt fields. Kids today are playing computer games" says Jason Lake, an Atlanta real-estate lawyer who owns two teams of pro gamers, totaling fourteen players, some of whom did battle last week. 
For a non-gamer, the competi­tion at New York's Ilammerstein Ballroom can't have looked too exciting. 
Pale young men crowded around computers on the noor as the cyberspace-based adion unfolded on big-screen displays 
overhead, accompanied by a 
play-by-play announcer rattling 
off things like "Schwan's gonna 
be hiding behind a big box 
there, waiting for them to eome 
up, and it's 7-0 for tho eountert­
errorists on this map." 
Only about 4,000 spectators 
showod up at the Ilammerstein, 
organizers said, but more than 
63,000 followed the games Jive 
on tho Web. 
Even more signilieantly, morn 
than a million people around 
the world have tried to qualify 
for the final, to be held in 
Singaporo in November. That's 
mostly a sign of the acceptance 
that computer gaming (or e­
sports, as promoters like to call 
it) has gained in the rest of the 
world. 
Just 40,000 of that million 
were Americans. 
In South Korea, where the 
World Cyber Gamos is based, 
three cable channels broadcast 
competitive gaming around the 
clock and some of the country's 
approximately 200 professional 
gamers bask in rock star-like 
fame. 
In the United States, "there are rock stars already, but the mass market doesn't know about them," says Hobert · Krakofl', president Hazer Group, which makes computer mice and is a major sponsor of the games, along with Intel Corp. 
and Samsung Electronics Co. 

SAINT JOSEPH REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER AND THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME ALUMNI ASSOCIATION PRESENT 
I 

THE 13TH ANNUAL EMIL T. HOFMAN LECTURE 
Seven Quiz Questions for Catholics in Biomedicine, and Some Notre Dame Answers: The Eradication ofElephantiasis in Haiti 
Saturday, September 1 ih, 2005 10:00-11 :00 a.m. (before the game) University ofNotre Dame DeBartolo Hall, Room 101 
Father Streit's work in the program to eliminate elephantiasis from Haiti has been assisted by a 5.2 million dollar grant to Notre Dame from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. 
.-----~ 
' 
page 24 Wednesday, September 14, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Clark. "He's got a big wingspan."
Cahill 
continued from page 28 
weekend, he was named Big East Goalkeeper of the Week. 
"I wouldn't say it's anything more than just a reflection of the overall defensive efforts in those games," Cahill said, call­ing the recognition "an overall defensive award." 
Cahill earned the starting spot in goal after a heated summer and preseason battle between the four 

Fortunately, Cahill has man­aged to avoid two common pit­falls of tall goalies: awkward­ness and struggling with balls on the ground. 
"Quite often tall people, they're not always as well­coordinated, as athletic, and Chris is one of those fortunate people, not only is he big but he's well coordinated," Clark said. "He's a very good athlete, he's quick on his feet and he can move. He's obviously good 
with high balls, 

all the goalkeepers." Cahill appreciates Wiese's expertise as well. 
"As far as a coach he's everything you'd want," said Cahill. "He takes us through every single day and whatever we need, he's got us on our toes working on our weakness­es. It's no use practicing the things you're good at." 
Michaud has also helped keep the Irish defense steady. 
"They both worked hard and one of the most pleasing things for me was to watch at half­time Justin was out warming up Chris, getting ready," Clark said. "He was a rival and they both work so well to help one another and to improve each other." 
This goes with another of Cahill's observations: the team-first attitude of the Irish. 
"I was definitely confident," he said of his first times in goal, "because I know that the guys in front of me are going to make the job as easy and as simple as possible." 
To Cahill, though, it's not just the defense stepping up and making stops so he doesn't have to. Unity is a huge factor in the past success of the Irish and in their future hopes. 
"I feel like our team is 25 guys that are all best friend~. so whatever we're doing it's as a team and there's really just an unbelievable amount of unity on this squad," Cahill said. "From top to bottom every single person con­tributes ... everybody's got a positive attitude and it's one of the really strong points on our team, that bond that every­body has." 
Hesitant to refer to refer to 

keepers on the with balls in the
"I fee/like our

Irish roster. air, but he's also "We've got two, team is 25 guys very, very quick really we've got at getting down
that are all best 
four good goalies for low balls." 
friends."

on the team, with The Knott resi­the two freshmen dent claims to and the senior, Chris Cahill have had his Justin Michaud," nerves under con­
Irish goalkeeper 

he said. "It's good trol before step-to have a fire ping on the field burning under you all the time for his first collegiate game andi don't ever really imagine time. myself becoming content "I think I was nervous, defi­because there's always some­nitely, but it was a good sort of one there pushing me to get nervous," he said. "It was a better." nervous energy that I think I 
Cahill excelled in prep soccer needed, I think it's a good in his hometown of Louisville, thing to be a little bit nervous Ky. -if you're not that's when 
"He was first spotted at our you've got something to worry elite camp over the summer," about." Irish coach Bobby Clark said. Fortunately, Cahill has had Cahill was a three·time All­the guidance of excellent Star at the camp. "He caught goalie coach Brian Wiese, one our eye ... he's come in and of Clark's assistant and a done a first-class job." coach who focuses on guiding 
Standing tall at six and a half Notre Dame's traditionally out­feet, Cahill has a natural size standing keepers. advantage. "Brian's done a great job 
"As a goalkeeper you cer­with this one," Clark said. "He tainly cover more real estate if. did a good job with [last year's you're big, so he covers a fair goalie Chris] Sawyer as well. amount of real estate," said ... lie does a fabulous job with the team as a family -"that's too cliche," Cahill said -he pointed out that what keeps him going are "his boys." 
"You're always motivated to go out and play your best because you don't want to let your teammates down," he said. 
But Clark will need Cahill to step into a leadership position for the Irish to see success and realize their goals for this sea­son. 
"I think at the moment he's just been establishing himself as the goalkeeper, now he has got to become a leader," Clark said. "I think its really impor­tant that a goalkeeper does become a leader in the back­field and I think it's something he's starting to realize and something he's really starting to work on.:· 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 


./All returning ND & St. Mary's undergrads eligible ./Study in London ./Travel in E-urope ./Earn 6 credit hours ./Still have 2 months ofsummer left wben you return! 
Information Session for 2006 & 2007 Programmes:
,( . . . ; 
Wednesday, September 14 
Drop in anytime • 11:30 to 12:30 P.M. or 5:00 to 6:00P.M. • 217 DeBartolo Hall Applications are available at 223 Brownson Hall or on..line at www.nd.edu/---sumlon 
Wednesday, Seprember 14, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 

Golf 
continued from page 28 
Per the team's goal, players' scores improved as the week­end progressed. They attrib­uted the improvement to get­ting comfortable with the greens and to their adjust­ment to the pressure of play­ing against such formidable opponents. 
"I think it's good for smaller schools to play bigger compe­tition every once in a while," co-captain Kristen Fantom said. "Also, once we got over getting used to the greens we were able to get down our scores." 
Today is the first outing when results will count in the standings as the Belles attempt to defend their MIAA crown for the fourth straight season. Hivals Olivet and Albion, along with host Calvin College, look to challenge the Belles as they attempt the 
McKnight 
continued from page 28 
McKnight's 5-yard touch­down catch opened scoring and proved the difference maker in the final score. 
To fill the vacant wideout spot, coaches will simply slide the depth chart up a name. Quarterback Brady Quinn has thrown to eight different play­ers, including four wide 


There's no better place to begin your career than St. Paul Travelers. As America's 2nd largest property-casualty insurer and a Fortune 100 firm, we offer a wide variety of opportunities and training with our exceptional development programs. 
If you're looking for a company that is interested in personal contributions and career growth, look no further. 
Opportunities: 
• Underwriting Development Program 
• Acturial leadership Development Program 
• Finance • Personal Lines 
we•re Coming To Campus: 
For the following CAREER FAIR Wednesday, 9/14/2005: SCHOOL OF BUSINESS 
Resume Drop Date: Monday, 1 0/03/2005 Pre-Interview Session: Tuesday, 1 0/25/2005 Interviews: Wednesday, 1 0/26/2005 
If you cannot join us, please submit your resume to: St Paul Travelers, College Relations, One Tower Square, 1MN, Hartford, CT 06183; fax: (860) 277-1970. E-mail: college@spt.com For more informa­tion about our opportunities, visit our website at: www.stpaultravelers.com 
STPAUL 
• TRAVELERS 
four-peat. 
The outing will bn playnd at Calvin's home course, the Thornapple Pointe Golf Club, located just east of Grand Hapids. 
The course is rt~lativnly short. measuring only 5,302 yards. This should play to the advantage of the Belles, who are known for their exeellent short game and work around the greens. 
The Calvin outing is the lirst of three regular season out­ings the Belles will participate in, before heading to the MIAA ehampionships, slated for the weekend of Oct. 7 -S at the Bedford Valley Country Club. 
Getting the regular season off on the right foot is essen­tial to another suecessful sea­son on the greens, and the Belles are looking for a very solid performance today and the rest of the season. 
Contact Justin Beltz at jbeltt@nd.edu 
receivers, already this season. 
And though no one would qualify McKnight's production as replaceable, the Irish are certain they have the person­nel to substitute into the game and maintain efficiency. 
"Next guy goes in," We is said of his plan to adjust. "That's all that happens. It's always been that way. It's the only way I know. 
"Once again, I hate to keep on going back to the past, but I've always come from sys­tems where [if] one guy goes out, just plug the next guy in." 
So far this season, indica­tions are Weis will be able to continue the methods he learned in New York and Nnw England with this team. 
The Irish lose McKnight, who has caught five balls for 69 yards and a touehdown. But remaining are starting wideout Maurice Stovall (four catches, 44 yards), deep threat Matt Shelton, who according to Weis is getting closer to 100 pereent health, and the team's leading wide receiver, Jeff Samardzija (seven catches, 86 yards, two touchdowns). 
Hunning baek Darius Walker and tight end Anthony Fasano have eight catches eaeh to lead the team, but in the wide receiving corps, Samardzija has distinguished himself as a clear primary option for Quinn. 
"Jeff has great athletic abili­ty and ball skills," Weis said. "He's been a perfect comple­ment in the system, along with the other receivers we have. 
"I think at this point, Je!T has been the one who has been open based off the cover­age schemes. l think Brady has done a nice job of getting the ball in his hands." 
Samardzija is on pace to make almost 40 catches this season, whieh would be more than twice the amount of grabs he made in 2004 (17). 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Write Sports. Call 1-4543. 
-----------. 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 14 2005 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles return to home field 
Team faces physical, tough play of MIAA rival Albion College 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
The Belles will return to their home turf today from an extended tour of presea­son tournament exhibitions and early MIAA road games to tackle the physical play of Albion College. 
Saint Mary's did not finish the road sojourn with the best record (1-3 overall, 0-1 MlAA), but is confident that the change of scenery and the welcome embrace of the Belles' campus will spark a much-needed victory. 
The schedule for the Belles is not an easy one to play, with home and away series with Hope. The women lost to Hope 2-0 in that series road game last weekend. There are also Calvin, Alma, Olivet and Tri-State, all of which bring the Belles a unique challenge on the field. As a result every game won is crucial -making those games played at home that much more significant in the long grind of the fall season. 
"Albion always brings a strong, physical team," 

Belles coach Caryn The competition level has Mackenzie said. "The fact been high so far this season. that we are on our field for The Belles faced Dill nation­the first time will help us set al contender Illinois the tone." Wesleyan and one of the top 
The tone they hope to set MIAA teams in Hope College. will undoubtedly be an offen­Albion will continue this sive one, as the Belles have trend in Belles opponents, as managed to net four goals it is also a perennial con­for the season to date, with tender in the MIAA. 
all four coming  "They are usu­ 
in  a  4-3 double  ally  one  of our  
overtime victory over SUNY­Brockport in the season opener.  "It is always much more fun to play at home,  toughest com­petitors, they are usually very aggressive," Orr  
The. three straight shutouts imposed on the  you have got your fans and everything. We are  said. Last year Saint Mary's split the season series, coming  
Belles have not come as a result of a lack of abil­ really looking forward to it.,,  away with a 2-0 win at home and a 3-2 over­ 
ity  on  the  time loss  on the  
offense;  Carrie Orr  road.  
Mackenzie has  midfielder  The  whistle  

repeatedly praised the strong play of her attackers and midfield­ers. 
The players have taken it all in stride as well, realizing the meat of the season is still ahead of them. 
"Every game we have played we have seen-some really good stuff," midfielder Carrie Orr said. "We have played some of the best teams around. We know that and we think we can play with anyone." 
will kick off the 
Belles' home 
season at 4 p.m. 

on Wednesday, a start that the Belles hope will get them started on the right track once again. 
"It is always much more fun to play at home, you have got your fans and everything," Orr said. "We are really looking forward to it. We are ready to bring out a lot of energy for the game." 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
Belles 
continued from page 28 
been lifting her game the entire season." 

Saint Mary's seemed poised to take a two games to none lead as they led 24-19 late in the second game. Weak serve reception proved to be the Belles' demise, however. Olivet (2-7, 1-0) was able to take advantage of Saint Mary's mistakes, using a 9-1 run to take a 28-24 lead and holding off the Belles for the win. 
lows tonight," she said. "Ultimately we need to be consis­tent. We had some players get­ting down after some misses. You need to have a short term memo­ry and have the confidence to dig in and bounce back." 
The Belles were able to tie the match by playing their most complete game of the match in the fourth. Saint Mary's tight­ened up their defensive play and used a 7-0 run to take a 23-14 lead on their way to a game four win. 
The fifth game was tight early, 
but Olivet surged 
ahead with a 7-0 
Schroeder-Biek "You need to have to extend their thought her team lead to 13-5. They
a short term 
eased up at the end held off a late 
memory and have
of game two. Belles charge to "We relaxed. We the confidence to claim the victory. need to work on dig in and bounce Despite the loss 
our killer instinct in the match's
back.,
and drive toward final game, the finish," she Schroeder-Biek said. Julie Schroeder-Biek was pleased with 
The Comets of Belles coach her team's 
Olivet were ener­gized by their win in game two and came out with more emotion in the third game. A 7-4 Belles lead was quickly erased by a 6-1 Comet run. Saint Mary's was able to tie the game at 16, but inconsistent play again proved to be the Belles' Achilles' heel as they lost 14 of the game's fmal 21 points. 
The final point summed up a frustrating night for Saint Mary's. A Comet player dove and dug a ball that seemed destined to be a Belles kill, sending it across the net and into the open court for a miraculous Olivet kill. 

Schroeder-Biek talked about her team's need to be mentally tough after setbacks like these. 
"We had a lot of highs and approach. 

"I told them to play like a winner and stay aggressive," she said. "Normally when we get into a close game we play safe. I thought we played aggressive at the end, but again it was our serve reception that struggled. We'll be working on that this week." 
The loss snapped a three-game winning streak for Saint Mary's and ended a seven-game losing streak for Olivet. 
The Belles will look to bounce back from Tuesday's diflicult loss when they travel to Concordia, Ill. Thursday for another game of their season. 
Contac.t Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu . 



.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, September 14, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 

ERIK POWERS AND ALEC WHITE 
JUMBLEJOCKULAR 

e2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
MOIFT 
± 

CROISSANTWORLD 
J r ()
1 
www.jumble.com
tMARKES j
xJ r 


HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above car-

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Grandly honor 58 Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan,
1 Round bullets 32 Call on Michigan State,6 Dish that may Minnesota,
34 Mathematician's
come with a Northwestern,toothpick response to 17-, Ohio State,

22-, 51-and

9 Helps in crime Penn State,
58-Across? 14 Columbus's Purdue and birthplace 41 Desire, with Wisconsin "for"
15 Ladies' or 62 Turn aside gents', e.g. 63 Any ship
42 Snack item 16 Onetime Red since 1912 64 It's a snap head 
65 Trunk
43 _glance

17 Board that's (quickly) 66 Drapers' meas.
usually 15/a" x 67 Place

35/a" 46 Prefix with 19 Punch server school DOWN
20 Ages and ages 
47 Draft org. 1 _Pepper21 Point-and-click 50 Breach
item 2 Author Wallace 
22 Conflict from 51 Aramis, Athos, 3 Popular Mattei 1337-1453 D'Artagnan and game 
Porthos, with "the" 

26 Prefix with bar 4 Become spoiled 
27 Atlanta-to-St. 5 Gale on the Pete dir. 55 Grand Prix site gridiron 
28 Russian fighter 6 Marilyn Monroe,
56 High clouds 
e.g.

29 John and Paul, e.g.: Abbr. 57 "Don't say _" 7 Punk 
8 Rocky point ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
9 Kind of reaction 
10 Rafters 
~~+=-! 

.;.;+;;.;+i=+:::-t 11 Funds 12 Struggle with 
13 Speaks scornfully 
H*.±~ --=~±+=-lilr:+=-R 18 The Blue and the Gray, once 
-:+.~+:-t 21 Add to the pot 
22 Old 45 player 
•••• 23 Preowned .::+~+=8 24 A flat, e.g. 25 Arabian V.I.P. 
31 First responders: Abbr. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 


32 Actor Kilmer 40 Trumps 49 "Cathy" and "Luann"
33 Excessively 43 "Finally!" 
52 Takes home 35 Tack on 44 "Pinball Wizard" 
53 Part of an I.R.S. 36 Social standards 
group 
return: Abbr. 37" et mon 45 British knight's 54 Black billiard ball droit" (British protector 58 Your, of yore royal motto) 
47 Sports people in 59 Corn location 38 Advocate masks 60 Airport inits. 39 Approach 48 Certain Slav 61 Silent O.K. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _____________ State ______ Zip____________ 
Ans: 

A"( I I I I]"( I I I I I I] 
Yesterday'  I Jumbles:  SMACK  LAUGH  (Answers tomorrow) BYGONE MAROON  
s  Answer:  Experienced by the parents of a fast develop­ 
ing infant-MANY "CHANGES"  

EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ben Savage, 25; Fiona Apple, 2H; Jean Smart, 46; Jacqueline Bisset, 61 
Happy Birthday: You should be able to make some serious cash this year. You wi II be able to put your talents to work in a very precise way. You wi II be successful because you honed your skills and applied them to what you have to otTer. The extra cash will come from doing your own thing. Your numbers arc 
7, 16, 20, 21, 29,42 

ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Focus on what you have to get done. Don't gossip or it will come back to haunt you. Too much of anything will work against you --it's about balance and staying positive.+* TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Do something special for the person in your life that you love the most. Update your look and you will receive plenty of compliments. A creative approach to a pn~jcct will be a step in the right direction. 
***** 

GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): Don't take a financial risk. Watch your spending habits--being overly generous will put you in the poorhouse. Shop wisely and do the work yourself. *** CANCER (June 21-.Jul)' 22): Partnerships should be taken to the next level. Someone you meet will kad to a joint ctliJrt on future projects. Don't be shy; your genuine personality will capture allcntion. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make professional changes today that will lead to more money, satisfaction and a better future. Talk about your plans and what you have to otTer and you will get people to listen. Don't promise what you can't deliver.*** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): This is your day to take over and make things happen. Your dynamic and aggressive stance will not please everyone, but the accomplishments will speak for themselves.***** LIBRA (Sept_ 23-0ct. 22): You arc being indecisive. Look backward and forward and you'll realize the one place you don't want to be is in the present. You need a change and you're running out of time.** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You'll feel rejuvenated ifyou can relax and f(Jrgct your worries. Today is a new day and, with the right attitude, it can be the beginning of a very positive period in your life. •••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-l}cc. 21): You can get ahead professionally if you aren't bullheaded. If you work in unison, you will get far more accomplished. Your ability to contribute positively will help position you I(Jr leadership. ••• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You don't usually relish dealing with emotional matters, but today you can rid yourself of pending problems hy speaking up. Once you purge yourself of the negative, you'll be tree to move li.Jrward with optimism.*** AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't be too quick to travel or deal with authority figures. It will be in your best interest to work on your own. Solitude will be your sanctuary. Secret affairs or love triangles will lead to sorrow. ••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You need a change of scenery. A chance to do something nice for someone else will make you feel good about who you arc and bring you bcnetits you didn't expect. •••• 
Hirthday Haby: You are a versatile, creative individual, blessed with cham1 and grace. You are energetic and can make things happen through your willpower and determination. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvit·e.com.fhr.fim, eugenia/ast.ctmJfor conjidcntial Clmsultation\' 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, September 14, 2005 
page 28 
FOOTBALL 
McKnight out with leg injury forMS U 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sporrs WriJer 

Notre Dame's leading receiv­er from last season will be on the sidelines for the. team's first home game Saturday. 
Rhema McKnight will not play against Michigan State in the first home game of his senior season due to a leg injury he suffered in Notre Dame's 17-10 victory at Michigan last weekend. 
McKnight led the Irish last season with 42 catches for 610 yards and three touch­downs. 
"Although he's day-to-day ... he's going to miss this week's 
Down but not out 
game," coach Charlie Weis said in a noon press confer­ence Tuesday. "We'll revisit him again Qext week, but he's not lost for the season like all the rumors [claim]." 
Weis disclosed McKnight had a "slight procedure" done on his leg, without providing details. But he assured coach­es will keep a daily eye on the receiver to observe his progress. 
"If you asked [McKnight] how he was doing, he would say day-to-day anyway," Weis said. 
McKnight caught two balls for 18 yards against Michigan before injuring himself, and both came on the offense's 12­play, opening game scoring drive that lasted just 2:58. 
see RHEMA/page25 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Olivet takes win over Saint Mary's in five matches 

Middle hitter Shelly Bender spikes the ball against Olivet Tuesday night. The Belles lost in five closely-played matches to their MIAA rival. 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Writer 

Consistent play may not always be exciting, but it the end, it wins games. 
Unfortunately for the Saint Mary's volleyball team, it lacked consistency Tuesday and fell to Olivet College in five back and forth games, 25-30, 30-28, 30­23, 21-30, 15-9. 
The loss was particularly dis­turbing for Belles coach Julie Schroeder-Biek, as she felt her team was a victim of its own mis­takes. 
"We hurt ourselves more so than any one of their players hurt us," Schroeder-Biek said. 
The Belles (4-7, 0-2 MIAA) looked strong early in the match, taking control of the first game by jumping out to an early 6-1 lead. Michelle Turley paced Saint Mary's with her strong hitting. Her play propelled the Belles to a win in the frrst game. Schroeder­Biek took notice of Turley's stel­lar play. 
"She is a strong player," Schroeder-Biek said. "She played well over the weekend and has 
see BELLES/page 26 
SMC GOLF 
Belles hope to bounce back after past losses 
By JUSTIN BELTZ Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's looks to bounce back today after a challenging performance last weekend at the Notre Dame Invitational as they travel to Calvin College for the first of three MIAA meets this season. 
Over the weekend, the Belles competed against Division I competition for the first time all season, and as expected, it was a challenge. 
Adding to the difficulty of the competition was the fact that senior captain Nicole Bellino was forced to with­draw. She is expected to play in the match today. 
Even though the Belles brought up the rear of the field last weekend, they were certainly not blown out by the competition. 
see GOLF/page 25 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Cahill named to award list 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
Filling the cleats of an All­American goalkeeper isn't an easy task, but all 6-foot-6 of Chris Cahill is proving to be up to the task. 
The junior goalkeeper, who did not see action for his first two years with the Irish, stepped into goal at the begin­ning of the season and won the starting spot. After posting his first two shutouts last 
see CAHILL/page 24 



SMC SOCCER 
GAMING 

HURRICANE 
NFL 
HURRICANE 
MlB -AL 
Albion at Saint 

New gaming trend 
Johnson turns self 
White Sox raise 
Yankees 17 

in competition 
Mary's 

into police 
funds for Katrina 
Devil Rays 3 

High school students 
from New Orleans will 
Today, 4 p.m. 

Tournaments of video 
The team collected 
New York gained a

The Kansas City
play a season of high
The 1-3 Belles look for 

games could be the 
$1,000 for victims of the 
game on the Red Sox

Chiefs running back 
school football in
next big 'sporting' event 
a win in their home 
hurricane. 
with a win in Tampa

will go to court for 
Dallas.
opener. 

in the United States. 
Bay.

domestic assault. 
page 26 
page 23 

page 20 
page 18
page 22 
page 21 






