
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE 131 MONDAY, APRIL 25,2005 
Few concerned about campus safety 
Despite recent crimes at Notre Dame, students and rectors feel secure on University grounds 
By KATIE PERRY 
News Wrirer 
It would be diflkult to nnvision a campus with a God Quad as anything but safn, but even Notre I>amn must l'aee the reality ol' crime on University grounds and in thn surrounding South Bend anm. 
Despite recent concerns regarding crime -especially thoft -in residence halls and othor on-campus locations, eom­rnunity members still maintain that Notre Damn is generally a 
Father Joe Carey to resign 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
Saint Mary's Editor 
htther Joe Carey, the priest nlsponsibln for the sa(:ramen­tal and liturgical ministries at Saint Mary's, said in an inter­viow l'riday lw will not return 
to the Coll(lgn in tho fall. 
C a r n y h a s worked at S a i n t Mary's in Campus Ministry 

organizing, Carey 
lliiiOng 
otlwr things, Biblo studios and Jo:udutristic minister training snssions since 2000 and serves as tlw campus ministry liaison to lloly Cross and Annunciata llall. lie also cele­brates nearly all ol' tlw Massos 
see PRIEST/page 3 
secure and welcoming environ­ment. 
"Notre Dame enjoys a general­ly safe earn-pus," Notre Dame Sec-See Also urity/ Police 
"Students
(NDSP) Dire­
report campus
ctor Hex Hakow said. thefts" "Our crimes against per-page 4 sons are few and we count on an involved campus community to assist in the safety and security of every­one." 
Hakow said NDSP works close­ly with the University to maintain a "safe and well-ordered campus environment." Among the serv­ices provided by NDSP are resi­dence hall programming, Hape Aggression Defense (HAD) and individual counseling. Additionally, otlicers patrol the campus on foot, bicycle and vehide in order to maintain visi­bility to the community. 
"I think [NDSPI does a won­derful job not only of preventing erime, but of alerting the com­munity about crimes that have been committed and investigat­ing crimes when they oceur." said Badin Hall rector Anne Napoli, who agrees Notre Dame is a safe campus. 
"They are very professional and very eonsdous of their mis­sion toward the students espe­cially." 
For many students, Notre Dame is a safe haven in which student endeavors ean be pur­sued in an intellectual environ­ment devoid of the threats of the outside world. 
"I feel relatively safe on this 
see THEFTIpage 4 



Pfhe Shirf 2005 unveiled 
By KATIE PERRY 
News Writer 
After three consecutive years as a sea of green, the Notre Dame student section is set to receive the Midas touch for the upcoming season, thanks to the ol'ficial golden-hued shirt unveiled Friday. 
A large crowd of more than 300 community mem­bers gathered at a Bookstore ecremony to usher in a new look to match a new season, and -more notably -a new eoach. Charlie Weis said the shirt embodied themes central to what he wants to relay as head coach: eompetition, preparation, unity and teamwork. 
"That's the attitude that I'm trying to permeate to our guys," Weis said. 
The Shirt, which is gold­en-yellow in color, features a front with the scripted tagline, "The Spirit Lives." The baek depiets Irish football players praying together and reads, "If you 
see SHIRT/page 8 

Above, Charlie Weis and his son hold the new shirt. At right, cheerleaders sport 'The Shirt.' 
•
PHOTOS BY 
BETH WERNET 

Golfers delight in ND greens 
By KATHY LEE 
News Wrircr 
As spring roars its reluctant lwad, morn students arn ven­turing out on weekends to sharpen tlwir goll' ganws at tho two goll' courses on cam­pus -the Notre Damn Golf Cours(~ and Warren Golf' Course IW<a:J. 
Tlw Notre Danw Golf' Course is a nine-hole eoursn loeatnd on the southwest corner of t'HIIlJHIS whiln tlw nightnnn­holn Warrnn c;olf Course is l'arthnr off of campus. It is a 
sec GOLF/page 8 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Research facility to close in late June 
By EILEEN DUFFY AND 
)EN ROWLING 
News Writers 

After conducting research with its soeial science dnpart­ments, the deans of the College of Arts and Letters have decided to close tho Laboratory for Social Hesearch (LSH) as a unit, beginning with its scanning service. They have set a tenta­tive elosun~ date for June 30. 
Located in Flanner llall, the LSH provides various tools for those conducting experiments in the various fields of' soeial science. The lab also main­tains a computer duster dedi­cated primarily to graduate students. 
One of the most important areas of the LSH is its scan­ning unit, whieh features an NCS OpSean 21. The machine is used for a variety of func­tions, including Teacher/Course Evaluations (TCEs), rector evaluations, commencement tickets, vohi­ele registration, enrollment and registration, exam scor­ing and survey instrunwnts: 
A little morn than a year ago, the lab underwent an external review, a process completed every 10 years. Aeeording to Grog Stnrling, associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters, tlw com­mittee responded very posi­tively, suggesting a massive budget inereasn and expan­sion of' resources for the lab. 
"So, last summer, wn had meetings as to how to rnspond Ito the committee's findings!." Sterling said, "how to rnallo­
sec LAB/page 6 
U.S. ambassador gives AIDS keynote address 
By KATIE PERRY 
News Writer 
In describing the sheer magni­tude of the international I !IV/ AIDS crisis, United States ambassador Handall Tobias employed a power­ful metaphor to shf1d conceivabili­ty on one of tho most pervasive ­yet unimaginable -tragedies of the modern era. 
"Imagine what your reaetion would be if you woke up one morning and heard on the radio that 20 Boeing 7 4 7 [airplanes I 
had erashed and all passengers worn lost," Tobias said in a keynote addrnss at the Mendoza Collegn of Business Sunday. "Now imagine you woke up thn follow­ing morning and 20 morn had crashed." 
At a conl'nrnJH:n examining tho health earn of developing nations, the United States Global AIDS Coordinator called this hypotheti­cal situation tho "equivalent" ol' the current IIIV/AII>S emnrgency faeing the world. More than H,OOO 
see AIDS/page 3 
Monday, April 25, 2005
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Retain professor 
I have found in my almost 14 years of studies that the greatest teachers are those who put the students first. The professors that work tirelessly day in and day out are the indispensable ones; they are the ones that I remember. I Tom Chesnik remember my accounting profes­sor who I am on a 
Assistant Ads 
first name basis 

Manager
with. I remember my professor of Russian Literature from freshmen year because I've been to his home. When I think of Notre Dame I think of these people. They are the ones that keep this institution head­ed in the right direction. 
I will remember my finance professor because of his unmistakable teaching style and sense of humor. Unfortunately in this case it has a liter­al meaning. This is the last semester he will be teaching at this University because of reasons out ofhis control. It is my hope that perhaps this column will help the powers that be come to their senses and bring this man back. 
To the powers that be at Notre Dame, 
How is it possible that you could let one of the finest finance professors at this University leave? You are pointing this school in the wrong direction when you fail to renew the contract of Professor Hans. G. Heidle. 
I cannot believe that the powers that would be would let a diamond in the rough slip away while we retain some other ineffective professors who, for the most part, seem like they would rather be doing something else. 
Ask any business major and I guar­antee that he or she could name at least one course where the professor was impossible to understand. I have been privileged to have Professor I-leidle as my professor for Finance 251. 
The man has an immense passion for what he does and he inspires his stu­dents to do·incredible amounts of work with fervor. I have never enjoyed work­ing so hard in a class. The man deserves recognition and a much­deserved thank you from his culleagues and his peers. Instead, he will get the cold shoulder from this so-called insti­tution of higher learning. 
Tomorrow, Professor Heidle will teach his three sections of Finance and at the end ofeach one there will be applause and a standing ovation. We will salute a man who pushed us helped us, mentored us, entertained us and taught us. I will shake the hand of one of the best teachers I have had at this University. Will you do the same? 
We cannot let such a valuable asset to this school leave because of the bot­tom line or whatever reason the pow­ers at be will give. Renew the man's contract and keep this school going in the right direction. Do it for the people who afforded you the opportunities to be where you are, do it for the students who pay $40,000 a year, do it for Notre Dame. 
"A good teacher is like a candle-it consumes itself to light the way for oth­ers." 
-Author unknown 

Contact Tom Chesnik at tchesnic@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize chat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 63!-454! so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF NEXT YEAR'S THE SHIRT? 





Chris Tarnacky 
sophomore O'Neill 
"Joe Theismann is good at football, not at 
,
quotes. 
Amanda Bell 
freshman 
Holy Cross 
"! would prefer a different-color, but the message promotes the Notre Dame spirit." 

Megan Lueck 
freshman 
Holy Cross 
"It's a good change, a new color for a new coach and a new start." 

Paul Robbins  Meghan Paladino  
freshman  freshman  
O'Neill  Pangborn  
"Our team  '"Spirit' in  
might stink but  cursive+  
at least we  football+  
have spirit. "  mustard =most  
social egregious  
outrage on  
campus.  


IN BRIEF 

Bishop Kevin Dowling, chair of the Justice and Peace Commissions, will give a lec­ture titled "Quality Healthcare in Developing Countries: The New Imperative" today at 9:15 
a.m. It is cosponsored by the Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business and the Program on Multinatonal Managers and developing Country Concerns. 
IU-PUI professor of education Jose Rosario will speak at noon today on "Pushing for Social Justice: Latino High School Youth and the El Puente Project." It will take place in 208 McKenna Hall. 
The NO Symphonic Band and Symphonic Winds will perform today at 7:30 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall, DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
Kay Londergan will lead chil­dren's storytime at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Tuesday at 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. She will read "The Worm Family" by Tony 
Indians find other uses Economic Times newspa­said police always ask for 
Johnston. for condoms per quoted an Indian a license plate number or NEW DELHI -Only a industry official as say­a vehicle type when he 
The Saint Mary's tennis quarter of condoms made ing. reports motorists violat­
team will face Alma Tuesday at in India are used for sex; Sari makers also turn ing the 20 mph speed 
3 p.m at Saint Mary's. most of the others are the condoms inside out, limit near his home on used to make saris, toys place them on their fin­Beech Street. 
Arun Majumdar, of the UC­and bathroom slippers, a gers and use the high­So he decided to use a 
Berkeley department of newspaper reported quality lubricant to polish video recorder to catch 
mechanical engineering, will Saturday. gold and silver threads them, the 34-year-old 
give a seminar entitled "Fluidic The condoms are valu­used in the traditional father told the Post­
and Thermal Transport in able to manufacturers Indian women's outfits. Tribune of Merrillville for 
Nonstructure Materials and because of the lubricant a Saturday story. 
Devices" Tuesday. It will begin on them. Sari weavers Man catches speeders on Some motorists com­
at 3:30 p.m. in 138 DeBartolo place the condoms on tape, turns them in to cops plained to police last 
Hall. their thread spools and VALPARAISO, Ind. -A week about Fraze's the lubricant on the pro­man tired of drivers videotaping. 
To submit information to be 
phylactics is rubbed off speeding through his 
included in this section of The on the thread, making it neighborhood has started Information compiled 
Observer, e-mail detailed infor­move faster through their videotaping the violators. from the Associated 
mation about an event to sewing machines, The Bill Fraze of Valparaiso Press. 
obsnews@nd. edu 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
1.1.1 ::z::: 
!;( 
1.1.1
;: 
.... 

c( CJ .9 HIGH 62 HIGH 55 HIGH 56 
HIGH 56 HIGH 61 LOW 46 LOW 40 LOW 38 LOW 41 LOW 45 


Atlanta 74 I 62 Boston 70 I 49 Chicago 64 I 48 Denver 65 I 42 Houston 83 I 67 Los Angeles 78 I 72 Minneapolis 80 I 62 New York 70 I 49 Philadelphia 75 I 48 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 61 I 48 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampa 88 I 68 Washington 75 I 49 
Monday, April 25, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Priest 
continued from page 1 
on campus. both in the rnsi­dPnl:n halls and in thn Church of I,orPlto. 
Carny said the derision to IPavn tlw Collngn was nxtrnnwly difTicult, and was made after months of thought and prayer. lin initially rnsistnd the idna, ho said, but he could no longor dPny what he fnlt he was called to do. 
"Whnn I lirst started I thought it was my dream job, I thought I would slay horn I 0 yoars," Carny said. "But in about tho last ynar I bngan thinking how I misslld working with my communi­
''I've learned a lot
ty and·rnally had a limited to the snnso of wanting from the women Campus Ministry to go horne." ollices or to the var­
of.S'aint Mary's.''
!lome for Carey ious chapels on is just across the campus, Carey said. stront. lin gradu­Joe Carey lie strove to inte­ated as an SMC priest grate himself with adjust to being one of just a few men in a pn~dominantly female environment. 
"In the beginning I would go into a meeting and immediately I would notieo that I was tho only malo tlwrn," Carey said. "Now I don't even notien. I am pretty usnd to it." 
In his time at Saint Mary's, Carny said, ho came to learn what exactly the phrase 'the spirit of' Saint Mary's' signifies. 
"I've learned a lot from the women of Saint Mary's," Carey said. "I learned how to listen, I've loarned how to appreciate art and talents and gifts. !Tho students! have taught me the gift of' hospitality. the gift of making others !'eel welcome." 
!lis experiences 
on eampus were not 

aerounting major from Notro Damn in I<)(,2 and entered Moreau Snminary shortly theroafter. Lat1~r. hn served as an assistant rnetor of Dillon Hall !'or night ynars and llwn as tho rlldor fi>r 12 years. I lis new position there will lw as a earner counselor in the Carner Center. 
Carny described his experi­nnen at Saint Mary's as "joyful" and said he was initially drawn to lim College by its intimate sizo and the frinndlinoss of the peo­ple. 
"I saw it as an opportunity to work with college students, with eollngn womnn," Carey said. "I really likPd the atmosphere and th.n ~!mpln I would bn working With. 
lie learned quickly that minis­tering to women would be an abrupt change from his previous position. Funny annedotos that might work with the men of' Dillon llall did not have the same niToet. on tho women of Saint Mary's. lin also had to 
the student body 

regularly attending events such as soccer games, theator performances and just last week. a Saint Mary's team Bookstoro Basketball game. 
"One of Father Joe's greatnst contributions was his interest in students and their faith life," said Judith-Fean, director of Campus Ministry. "It was not uneommon to lind Father Joe at athletic events, flipping pan­cakes at the Late Night Breakfast or at the registration tables at Midnight Madness. only to lind him later presiding at one of the many masses on campus. Father Jon knows students by namo and greatly eares about what is going on in their lives. lie will be greatly missed by all." 
Carey evnn took it upon him­self to learn about student fads. lie created a Facebook profile I'm himsolf and took recommen­dations on movies to watch. 
"I've bonn introduced to Napoleon Dynamite," Carey said. "When I first saw the 
movie I thought it was the dumbest thing I had ever seen." 
Carey said he watched it again with a group of students, and rnaliznd what made it so funny was thnir familiarity with tho lines and their roaetions to par­ticular scenes. 
One of his favorite parts of his job, Carey said, what meeting with groups of students Monday nights for Bible study sessions called "Breaking Open the Word." h was during those ses­sions, he said, that he really was able to hear students' stories and learn to see things from their perspeetives. 
"I've learned through the eom­munity how to preach," Carey said. 
Carey said he was also proud of the work he had done with students and leadership devel­opment. This included teaching women at the College how to be Eucharistic ministers, how to lead prayers services and how to preaeh. 
"I remember the first time I had worked with a student on how to preach and the first time a student was going to preach at a reconciliation service," Carey said. "I was more nervous than in my entire life. I wanted her to do really well, and she did." 
llis time at Saint Mary's has had an impact on his perspective on women and their role in the Church. Women, Carey said, can fill a wide variety of roles both in the liturgy and in the Church structure. 
"All of this leads me to see that the Church needs to be mueh more inelusive," Carey said. 
Carey said he has also come to appreeiate how well students at the College relate to others, how much joy they garner from one another. 
"When people say to me 'I low are the girls at Saint Mary's?' my immediate response is 'We refer to them as 'women,"" Carey said. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 


AIDS 
continued from page 1 

people are lost everyday to the pandemic, but Tobias warned against dnseribing the tragedy in terms ·of numbers alone. 
"They all have names and 
they all have ..ir~?ivi.dual c_ir­eumstancns, I ob~as saHI. "These are not statistics ­these are individuals." 
In July 2003, President Bush nominated the f'ormer CEO of surh conglomerates as ATT International and Eli Lilly and Company to lead America's global combat against IIIV and AIDS. Sinee then, Tobias has transferred his success in the private seetor to the realm of pub­
victims and their f'amili11s ­namely orphaned and ~ul­nerabln children-havo been implemented in morn than 100 countries world­wide. 
Tobias cited "sustainabili­ty" as tho groatnst challenge to these nf'l'orts and ompha­sizod the importance of helping host nations build the rapacity to dolivor their own support to IIIV/AII>S vietims in tho futuro. 
"Wn have to provide tho f'ish and the f'ishing poles," Tobias said. "It has to bn our goal to someday go horne." 
Although the Bush plan has "catalyzed an ora of aetion," Tobias said the reality is that countries in the gravest of prodicanwnts are many years away 
lic service. ''They all have from getting Tobias said the pandemic
names and they
the president's under control.
have individual 
groundbreak­"We need to ing conclusion circumstances ... think of this as was that, in These are not the first five past years, yoars of a very
statistics -these
worldwide long-term response to are individuals. " o!'f'ort," Tobias the "emer-said. gency" has But despite
Randall Tobias
simply not tho long road
U.S. ambassador
been enough. In a recent meeting between the two men, Tobias said the presi­dent expressed his unmis­takable desire to bring peace, freedom. j ustiee and hope to the people of the world. 
Yet a daunting blockade to this goal is the IllY/AIDS emergency, which continues to spawn feelings of hope­lessness across the globe. 
The president's unprece­dented plan in the fight against HIV/AIDS includes the allotment of' $15 billion over five years to be spent on both the "infected and affected." Tobias said. Programs. to help both the 
ahead, early 
strides have been made in the rocent push to restrain the ondmn­ie disease. Just night months into the president's eampaign, more than 155,000 individuals in 15 "target nations" obtainod anti-retroviral drugs. Prior to this time only 50,000 had received treatnwnt. 
"I think we're ofT to a good start in the early days o( what we're doing," Tobias said. "The success we are beginning to see is the best foundation for hope over tho long torrn." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 

Are vou asophomore Accounting Maior loOking tor great paJ and a tremendous business experience;. 
If so, Get a Job at The Observer! 
The Observer is now accepting applications for Controller! 
If you're interested or have questions, please contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu or Michael Flanagan at mflanag 1@nd.edu. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 25, 2005 
a theft occurred," Shoup said. "Theft is one of the behaviors that 
Theft

Students report can1pus thefts 
is considered very serious lin 
By KATHY LEE 
News Writer 

Despite the widespread belief that Notre Dame is a completely safe environment, many students have shared personal testimony that theft is a growing problem on cam­pus. 
Freshman Jono Penn trust­ed that he would not have to worry about someone steal­ing his bicycle when he locked it onto the racks between Alumni and Dillon halls. llowever, that Friday night, Penn's bike disap­peared from the bike racks. 
He filed a report with Notre Dame Security/Police, who said they would conduct a search. A week later, Penn's friend found his bike locked outside the Pasquerilla Center and carried it back to Alumni, where the two cut off the new lock and put on a more secure lock. Although Penn experienced much trou­ble with bike theft, he still shower rooms. Rectress Katie Winikates, in turn, has been trying to spread awareness among the hall's residents. She sent an e-mail to stu­dents urging them to report theft to their RAs and Campus Security and remind­ing them that "stealing is wrong and hurts the commu­nity." 
Winikates said seniors seem to be the most personally affected by the theft inci­dents. 
"They want the residents of Lewis to know that this is not what community living in Lewis is supposed to be like," she said. 
Hoping that people may voice their opinions and com­ments on theft, Winikates arranged for each floor on Lewis Hall to hold mandatory meetings. 
"The meetings offered a great opportunity for people to express their anger about their thin~s being taken," she said. "My hope is that by pro­viding a place for 
believes that "As the year comes to people to theft isn't a huge speak and
an end andfinals are
issue at Notre be heard, 
Dame. coming up, students things will 
"Notre Dame need to pay more change." doesn't have a All items
attention to their
theft problem. stolen in
personal
Students just Lewis were need to be care­belongings.,, located in ful and their unsecured things will be places,
Phillip Johnson 
fine," Penn said. causing
NDSP assistant director 
"We take tests Winikates 
and write papers abiding by the honor code. Most stu­dents at [Notre Dame] are great people. Stealing just isn't in the cards here." 
As bike theft becomes more common, students have become more cautious about leaving bikes outside. Theft of smaller items such as multi­media and technological equipment in dorms happens frequently as well. 
Sophomore Dan Geffre's video games and DVDs were stolen from his common room in Morrissey Hall. Although his belongings were never returned, Geffre said theft at Notre Dame is "not worse than anywhere else." 
A few months ago, fresh­man Kim Schoemaker's bike was stolen from the Lewis bike racks. Her roommate found the bike outside of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. The bicy­cle had a new lock, but she identified its broken right handlebar. 
After calling NDSP to cut off the new lock, she reclaimed her bike. However, that night, she parked her bike without a lock again, and it was stolen overnight. Schoemaker found her bike again that Friday night at the JACC. The two incidents caused her to become more cautious about theft. 
"I used to think, 'Hey, this is Notre Dame, no one would intentionally take something that wasn't [his or hers],'" she said. "I mean, isn't this school supposed to be Catholic?" 
However, Schoemaker said she still believes the theft problem at Notre Dame is "better than at other schools." 
In Lewis Hall, residents have notified their resident assistants and rector of items stolen from the laundry and 
to suggest 

residents should bring their belongings into their rooms and lock their doors. She said she still agrees with students that Notre Dame remains a trust­ing environment. 
"I think [Notre Dame] is an incredibly trusting place and one in which I feel very secure," Winikates said. "A few incidents are dishearten­ing, but do not indicate a severe problem." 
Theft at Notre Dame is not a novel occurrence -'senior Joey Lira said thefts have been happening in the resi­dence halls for years. 
"I remember my freshman year ... during a football weekend, three people had laptops stolen during the game," he said. "I mean, most people here leave their rooms unlocked. We're all so trusting." 
NDSP reports that bicycle theft happens daily on cam­pus. Phillip Johnson, assis­tant director for NDSP, advis­es students to register their bikes, buy a lock and lock bikes to a fixed object so peo­ple do not carry them away. 
Theft of "unattended prop­erty," items left out on tables or left in dining hall cubbies, is the second-most common theft on campus, Johnson said. He believes that although valuables such as books and computers may be replaced, notes and papers are irreplaceable. 
"As the year comes to •an .end and finals are coming up, students need to pay more attention to their personal belongings," Johnson said, "or else they'll lose notes and papers from classes, which are probably mof'e valuable than an iPod which they can buy again." 
When a student reports theft to NDSP, they file a report on what has been stolen. Sometimes the item has already been turned in. If the item is valuable, NDSP will report it to the National Crime Information Center. If the stolen items are books which can be sold back to the bookstore, NDSP contacts the bookstore to keep a watch for stolen books. Reporting theft to NDSP helps security offi­cers become aware of trends in theft s.o they can preventa­tive resources can be provid­ed. · 
Johnson said students can take several measures to pre­vent thefts before they occur. 
"Students should back up their data, not leave their bookbags in cubby holes, not leave their CD players and iPods out on unattended tables, lock up things, look out for their friends and report any suspicious behav­ior to NDSP," he said. 
Johnson said if students better secure their belong­ings, theft at Notre Dame will probably decrease. According to Johnson, locking and securing items seems "very obvious, but it is not some­thing everyone does." 
Johnson said the reason people are not vigilant of their belongings at Notre Dame is very clear. 
"I think we're a very trust­ing community," he said. 
NDSP updates a daily crime blotter on their website, (http://www.nd.edu/-ndspd/) with all crime reported, including theft. Students can check the website for crime prevention tips and a crime information bulletin to pre­vent their belongings from being stolen. 
Contact Kathy Lee at klee7@nd.edu 
continued from page 1 

campus eompared to others that I have been at in larger cities," Siegfried sophomore Thomas Le said. "I think this is most likely attributed to the majority of good students that attend this school compared to some of the hooli­gans that go to state schools that I have encountered during visits to friends' eolleges." 
Farley junior Katie Popik said her perception of Notre Dame's safety is rooted in its emphasis on community. Although problems of theft have been addressed at dorms such as Knott and Lewis, Popkin still feels comfortable enough to leave her door unlocked. 
"I know most people in the dorm or my section well so if a random person comes in I'd take notice," Popkin said. "[On cam­pus], the only crime I think" about is theft, but I [still] feel that I can leave my things, including my computer, in the library for a short time while I go to LaFortune or something." 
Hakow said crime on campus has remained relatively the same in recent years and incidents of opportunistic theft continue to be the biggest crime category. Most of the property that is lost is unse­cured. 
"There are obvious fluctuations in individual categories but over­all the index remains about the same," Rakow said. "Even with good resourees it is the responsi­bility of everyone to report situa­tions or observations that could challenge that safe environment." 
Director of Residence Life and Housing Jefl' Shoup said punish­ments for those found guilty of theft range on a case-by-case basis. 
"The amount of cash or value of property taken impacts the sanc­tion, as does the number of times duLac] and may result in suspen­sion and dismissal." 
Outside the confines of the University, the city houses crimes typical of any metropolitan area aside from instances of larceny. Despite Notre Dame's apparent sedusion from South Bend, some students still voice safety con­cerns. 
Hakow said although South Bend is a "generally safe place," it still faces many of the challenges all other cities face in times of shrinking resources. 
"The biggest fear of mine is being beaten and mugged, but I'm not afraid of it on campus," Lo said. "Off campus, however, is a different story, especially while walking at night away frmn nor­mal student gatherings." 
While Le expressed apprehen­sion of off-campus crime, he said he did not think South Bend is nearly as unsafe as other places. To him, the perceived threats of students regarding off-campus crime remain just that-off-cam­pus. 
"I do not think crime from South Bend seeps [onto] campus because I think NDSP does a good job of protecting the campus," Popik said. "Notre Dame is defi­nitely segregated enough that I don't worry about things like the shootings that sometimes occur in South Bend." 
But a recent crime may alter community perception of Notre Dame as a safe campus devoid of big-city dangers. Thursday night a student was robbed at gunpoint outside the Eck Visitors' Center. Although the student promptly reported the crime to NDSP, the suspect could not be found Thursday. NDSP described the suspect as a 6-foot tall black male in his late 20s to early 30s weigh­ing approximately 180 pounds. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 

UNIVERSITY Of NOTRE DAME DEI'ARlMENT Of MUSIC PRESENTS 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
CHORALE & CHA.MBER ORCHESTRA 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR 

PURCELL ,. SCHUBERT ,. WAGNER MENDELSSOHN ,. RACHMANINOFF 
8:00P.M., FRIDAY, ArRIL29, 2005 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 
ADMISSION $10; FACULTY/STAFF $8; SENIORS $6; STUDENTS $3 RESERVATIONS 574-631-2800 
DEBARTOLO 
PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 







ORLD & NATION 
Monday, April 25, 2005 CoMPILED rRoM TI"'E l)ssERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Four car bombings leave 21 dead 
BAGIIDAD -lnsurgnnts explodnd two ear bombs in a Baghdad nuu·knt and two morn in Saddam llussnin's honwtown of Tikrit on Sunday, killing a total of 21 Iraqis and wounding 7:~ in onn of thn bloodiest days sirH:n Iraq's historic elections. 
Thn anti-coalition fon:ns havn grown morn Pmholdtmml in thn past wenk. bringing down a <"ivilian lwliroptnr earrying 11 pnopln Thursday and st.riking with bomb attacks <UToss Iraq Saturday, killing at least H1 pno­pll', induding an American soldi11r. Tlw vio­lnrwn-largnly targnting Iraqi polien and Sl't·urity fort:Ps -has playnd out as thP National Assnmbly strugglns to assnmbln a govPrnnwnt. 
l·:arlinr Sunday, thn U.S. military said it arrPstnd l'our mom suspPds in Thursday's downing of 11 civilian lwlicoptor north of Baghdad. bringing tlw number apprnlwndnd so l'ar to I 0. All I I hnlieoptPr passnngnrs and nnw wl'rn killnd, ineluding orw shot by insurgm1ts. 
Three man crew returns from space 
AHKAI.YK. Kazakhstan -A spaen eapsuln rarrying a U.S.-Hussian-ltalian !'.row landnd safnly on tho stnppns ol' northern Kazakhstan Parly Monday, following a mission aboard thn i ntPrrlittiona I sparI' station. 
Stmrrh-and-rnsr.un lwliroptnrs spottnd the llussian TMA-!i r.apsulP as it lloatt~d toward its dnsignatnd arrival sitn about !iO mifns north ol' lhn Kazakh town of i\rkalyk and madn a soft landing, upright. It had undo1·kPd with tlw orbiting station h1ss than ] f/2 hours t•arliPr. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Commission evaluates tax breaks 
WASIIIN<;ToN-As taxpayers roeov11r from linishing tlwir annual filing ehoros, a prPsidnntial romrnission studying thn tax laws has rPa!'IJPd tho eondusion that tlwro arn just too many dPdurtions and er-odits. 
Two credits, a dndqetion and spedal sav­in){s plans lwlp taxpaynrs nrt collngo costs. Spndal urban and rural tax zones nncourage invnstrnnnt and job creation. Dozens of othnr tax lwrwfits hnlp l'arnilins raise ehildrnn and savn for r11tirnmnnt, Pneour:age adoption, nudgn drivnrs toward hybrid ears and push husin11ssns to invnst in nnw nquipment. 
"Wn haw lost sight of the fact that the fun­danwntal purposn of our tax system is to raisH rnvenuns to fund govnrnnwnt," accord­ing to President Bush's Advisory Panel on Federal Tax ftpforrn. 

More snow falls across Midwest 
COI.UMBUS, Ohio -A rare late spring snowstorm durnpt>d up to a l'oot of snow on parts of tlw Midwost Sunday, knocking out pownr to thousands of customers and post­poning a Major Lnagun Baseball game for the sncond day in a row. 
Slippnry pavnnwnt eausnd spinouts but no injuries Wl11'0 reportnd, ollidals said. 
Thn two-day storm brought tempnratures 2!i degrees below the normal of around 60 as snow fnll aeross parts of Michigan, Indiana, Ohio. Pnnnsylvania, West Virginia, Tennessee and North Carolina. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Budget bill moves front and center 
Daylight-saving time, higher spend limits and anti-nwthamplwtaminn legislation are all still unrnsolvnd as lawmakers return to Indianapolis for the last wonk of the 2005 session. 
But those issues will take a back seat to stat11 budget deliberations, which continue to have nvnn sonw fellow Hepublieans at odds. 
"My bottom line is an honestly balanced budget -now," said (iov. Mitch Daniels, who's airing radio ads that eall upon lloosinrs to insist state government stop liv­ing beyond its means. 
SAUDI ARABIA 


Crown prince to discuss prickly issues 
Talk ofterrorism, democracy and oil prices to insinuate tension between old friends 
A~sociated Press 

.IIDDAH -Sky-high oil prices and tho prickly issuns ol' terrorism and bringing democracy to tho Middle East could provid1~ somn tense moments b11twenn old friends when Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah visits Prnsident Bush at his Texas ranch Monday. 
The two men also worn expnetnd to discuss Israel's pullout from tho Gaza Strip, Syria's role in Lebanon and a U.S.-Saudi neonomic agrnnmnnt that would spned tho kingdom's entry into the World Trado Organization. 
Bush has promised to pross Abdullah during Monday's meeting to do morn to lwlp 11asn global oil priens, whieh hav11 soared well beyond $50 a barrel. But he has acknowiPdgPd tlwre may bn little the Saudis can do to quickly bring down prieos. 
Thorn wern hints the two oil men also may addrnss a complaint by Bush's l:rit­ies that his nnergy bill do11s littln to promote alt11rnativn ennrgy approaches. 
An article in Tuesday's l•:nglish-language Arab Nnws, a prominent Saudi nnwspaper, urgnd Bush and Abdullah to "takn a Washington, wrote in the Yassin suggested Bush tuals -are surn to como joint and noble stand" by Arab News artiele that should not press too hard up in tho meeting. launching a major study Bush and Abdullah should on another key American Saudi Arabia eomplnted into r.urrent and alterna­launeh a major study into concern: bringing dnrnoe­its first nationwidn olnc­tive world energy the availability of world raey to the Arab world. tion last wonk. a llirtation rnsources. energy resources beeause Entrenched Arab rngirnes with democratie nlnetions 
Saudi Oil Minister Ali if current growth persists say it cannot bo imposnd for rnunieipal eouneils, but Naimi promised last week in China and India, addi­from outside. only men could vote and to increase production tional production will not "Western rhetorie and half the eouneil snats arn capacity from the current be enough to meet global outspokenness should give appointnd. limit of 11 million barrels energy needs. way a little morn to local Qenan al-Ghamdi, a a day to 12.5 million bar­"Such a study would forces and more diserntn prominnnt Saudi politi1:al rels by 2009 and possibly require worldwide cooper­but effective discussions," analyst, also urged tho 15 million barrels after ation, it must be thorough he wrote. United States not to push that. and transparent, and it Saudi authorities say too hard on how it wants 
The kingdom now pumps must make recommenda­political reforms are bning Hiyadh to combat Islamic about 9.5 million barrels tions for curnmt energy made, but long-standing extremism. Washington daily. sources as well as for rights concerns and has bonn prossing thn 
llassan Yassin, former alternative and cleaner restrictions on demoeraey Saudi govnrnrnnnt to stilln head of the Saudi energy sources," Yassin advocates =--induding tri­hard-line elnrics who Information Office in wrote. als of three liberal intnllne-prnaeh intolnranen. 


Prist hardens effort to stop filibusters 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Majority Loader Bill Frist said Sunday it was not "radical" to ask senators to vote on judieial nominees as he hardoned his effort to strip Democrats of their power to stall President Bush's picks for the federal court. 
Frist, speaking at an event organ­ized by Christian groups trying to rally churchgoers to support an end to judicial filibusters, also said judges deserve "respect, not retalia­tion," no mattnr how they rule. 
A potential carrdidate for the White llouse in 200R, the Tennessee Hnpublican made no overt mention of religion in the brief address, according to a text of his videotaped remarks released before the event in Louisville, Ky. 
Instead, Frist seemed intent on steering dear of the views expressed by House Majority Leader Tom DeLay, H-Texas, and other conserva­tives in and out of Congress who have urged investigations and even possible impeachment of judges they describe as activists. 
"Our judiciary must be independ­ent. impartial and fair," Frist said. 
"When we think judieial decisions aro outside mainstream Amnrican values, we will say so. But we must also be elear that the balance of power among all three brandws requires respect -not rntaliation. I won't go along with that," Frist said. 
For months, Frist has thrnatnnnd to take aetion that would shut down the J>emoerats' praetiee of subjecting a small numbnr of judicial appointees to 111ibusters. Barring a last-minutn compromise, a show­down is expnetnd this spring or sum­mer. 
"I don't think it's radieal to ask senators to votiL I don't think it's radieal to expect senators to fulfill their eonstitutional responsibilities," said Frist, whom I>nmoerats have aeeused of engaging in "radical Hnpublican" polities. 


r---------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 25, 2005 
The College of Arts and Furthermore, I-lachen expected [the University] to put this could impact the rest of her Letters funds all the areas of the expressed confusion over the me in this position ... Although life. The University has said
Lab 

LSR, including the scanning continued from page 1 unit. However, the scanning unit 
is used for a variety of cate resources within the University functions -it is not College [of Arts and Letters] and just limited to Arts and Letters. expand resources for [the lab]." "[The scanning unit] was cost­
Julie Braungart-Hieker, anoth­ing Arts and Letters an appre­er associate dean of the College ciable amount of money, when it of Arts and Letters, along with has no place in the lab," Sterling College of Arts and Letters Dean said. "Arts and Letters shouldn't Mark Hoche, met with the chair­have to pay for that. It's for the persons of the six social science University as a whole." departments (anthropology, Braungart-Rieker echoed that political science, psychology, opinion. sociology, economics and econo­"The scanning unit should metrics and economics and poli­never have been in the LSR," cy studies) to obtain their input Braungart-Rieker said. "It's a on the review. University function." 
The deans' overall findings, Thus, the College of Arts and. however, were different from Letters made the decision to those of the external review close the Lab for Social committee's. Research as a centralized unit, 
After gathering information beginning with the scanning about the individual needs of services. each department, Sterling said, Decisions like these are usual­the deans decided they would ly made by an academic council, 
be  better  and the College  
seryed  by  of  Arts  and  
smaller, more specialized  "The scanning unit  Letters prepared a proposal for  
locations,  should have never  such  a council.  
rather than a large, central­ized unit. The  been in the LSR. It's a University function."  However, the office of the provost felt a  
goal  of  the  council was not  
College, Sterling said, is not to eliminate the major func­ Julie Braungart-Rieker associate dean College of Arts and Letters  necessary, said Braungart­Rieker, since the LSR does not  

tions of the lab but to concen­trate them on the needs of the particular departments. 
"We have to look at the best way to support all of the social science departments in the best way possible," Sterling said. ".00 lltl is essential that we provide services to all departments and provide research opportunities for all faculty members." 
For example, Richard Jensen, chair of the economics and econometrics department, took issue with some of the recom­mendations of the external review committee. 
"One was that the recommen­dations were essentially to dou­ble the size of the budget, from about a half a million I dollars I a year to a million [dollars] a year. Financially, that's just not prac­tical," he said, citing today's constantly-changing economy as a concern. "Not only that, but given that the lab had been funded at that level, it was sur­prising how little the review thought the lab had actually accomplished." 
Essentially, Jensen empha­sized, the needs of his depart­ment could be met for "a lot less than a half a million a year." 
More importantly, though, the deans found a major flaw in the LSR. 


121 S. Niles@ Jefferson. downtown South Bend l"i74) 212-R4R8 +Hours: Mon.-Sat. 10-6 
have students 

and is not a "degree-granting unit," like an academic department. 
The question remains, though -where will the University turn for its scanning needs, such as the TCEs? 
Vice President and Associate Provost Christine Maziar said the TCEs will be outsourced. 
"High speed scanning is a service that is available from a number of ofl'-campus vendors," she said, "and we will contract with a vendor that has a strong track record of providing simi­lar services to other institu­tions." 
However, LRS Supervisor Debi Smith claimed that outsourcing future scanning will cost the University "two to three times more." 
Some social science faculty members are extremely disap­pointed with the decision -and the way the decision was made. 
"The closing of the Laboratory for Social Research is a big mis­take," associate professor of sociology David 1-lachen said. "Faculty and graduate students in the social sciences use the lab extensively." 
1-lachen is concerned as to where faculty and students will find services to conduct research and analyze data. 
decision. we have been assured that our 
" ... [A] recent external review performance has nothing to do called for further expansion in with this decision, it nonetheless order to meet the needs of leaves us hanging." social science Director faculty and Felicia LeClere graduate stu­"/ would have favored a also expressed dents," he worry about the 
broader process of

said. "Yet for future of the reasons that discussion before the LSR's employ­are still not decision was made. " ees. fully clear, the "The part I administration had the largest
Lynette Spillman 

decided problem with is instead to associate professor of the staff who 
close the LSH." psychology have been here 
Lynette Spillman, associate professor of sociology, also said she was disappointed with the decision process. 
"I would have favored a broader process of discussion before the decision was made," she said. 
Political science associate pro­fessor Michael Coppedge said he was similarly uninformed on the matter, but has a more opti­mistic outlook. 
"Although I have not heard the details of the closure, I am sure that the data sets and sta­tistics reference library that the LSR maintained will continue to be available thorough the 1-lesburgh Library," he said. "00. I expect that the department will renew efforts to obtain a [computer I cluster of its own for faculty and especially graduate students to use. I am optimistic that the functions that the LSH performed that were of value to our department and others will continue to be performed smoothly in other ways." 
A major concern at the LSH is the potential loss of jobs for many faculty and staff. 
"To say that Ithe notification of the closing] came as a shock is an understatement," Betty Tucker, technical support ana­lyst at the LHS, said. "I have been a loyal employee of Notre 
The Office of Information Technologies is looking for ND students who can provide after-hours computer support to students who live in ND Residence Halls. RCAs work between eight and 20 hours per week after receiving training from the OIT. 
20 some years," 
she said. "We have people who are 58, 59 00. one woman has breast cancer; 

Castle Point Apartments 
180 I I Cleveland Rd South Bend, In 46637 9 month leases now available ***$99.00 for the 1st months rent w/ a 14 mo. lease plus your choice of a microwave oven~ DVD player or 
a Spot Cleaner for carpet*** AH regular 1 bedroom apts. ~549.00 mo. 1\vb bedrooms start at ~715.00 mo..Two bedroom, den & loft ~92s.oo mo. 
Speed Wireless Internet '"'m'"""TI"'r Center w/ high speed internet 
Gated Community • Free Tanning Closeto Notre Dame • Racquet and Handball Courts Relaxing Jacuzzi and Sauna New Fitness Center • Beach Volleyball Sparkling Heated Pool • Use of Indoor Heated Pool Short Term Fully Furnished 1 & 2 Bedroom Suites 
Open 7 Days a Week www.cppj.com 
they'll help, but so far they haven't." 
Braungart-Hieker emphasized the University's concern for the LSH's employees. 
"In general, we're trying to help the staff in the ways that we can," she said. "If there are opportunities to provide sever­ance, we will. This is the hard­est part of the decision-making process. You can decide somec thing on paper, but the staff there 00. those are people, real people 00. Nobody likes to do this kind of stuff." 
Contact Eileen DuffY at edurtyl@nd.edu and Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Monday, April 25, 2005 page 7 

MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

10,157.71 -60.89
}ones  ,  
Up: Same: Down: Composite VolumE 1,275 167 ~ 2,049,883,040  
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE S&PSOO  I ,449.97 I,932.19 7,015.85 I, 152.12  +0.24 -30.22 -33.33 -7.g3  

NIKKEI(Tokyo) II ,084.51 +38.51 FTSE IOO(London) 4J~49.30 +29.7( 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I(QQQQ) -I ,49 -0.53 35.0~ MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.19 -0.30 24.9f INTEL CP (INTC) -0.51 -0.12 23.2• ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -2.05 -0.25 11.9; CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -1.41 -0.25 17.4: 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -1.25 -0.58 45.8( I0-YEAR NOTE -1.05 -0.45 42.5! 5-YEARNOTE -0.98 -0.39 39.2 3-MONTH BILL +1.46 +0.41 28.51 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.19 55.3~ GOLD ($/Troy oz.) + I.20 434.4( PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -2.10 81.3! 
Excha Rates 

YEN 105.970( EURO 0.768( POUND 0.523: 
IN BRIEF 

Gay rights group asks for rights back 
SI•:ATTLE-A gay and lesbian advocacy group that gave Microsoft Corp. a eivil rights award four ynars ago has asked the software giant to givo it bark, blasting thn company for withdrawing its support of' a state bill that would have outlawed discrimination against gays and losbians. 
Darrnl Cummings, chiof' of' stall' for thn L.A. <;ay & Losbian Center, said in a statement released Friday that Microsoft appeared to have yieldnd to anti-gay extrnmists. 
Mierosoft, which has offered benefits to same-sex couples since the early 11JIJOs and supportml vorsions of thn bill in tho past, said it doeidod to take a neutral position on tho gay righL'> bill this year so it eould sharpon its focus on a shorter list of legislative priorities. 
The bill banning discrimination against homosoxuals in housing, employment and insurance failed by one vote in the statn Senate on Thursday. 
Thn llous11 passml thn bill by a 61-37 vote two months ago. 

Fonner CEO of Monon guilty of fraud 
HAMMOND, Ind. -Two top executives at Monon Corp. trkked three lending institutions into loaning the company monny so they could linanc11 their lavish lifestyles whilo the cargo trailer maker slid toward bankruptcy, federal prosncutors said. 
A U.S. District judgt~ in II am mond on Thursday sentoneed Thomas .J. Hosby, Monon's formor chief executive, to more than seven years in prison and orderod him to repay more than $H.6 million to tho defrauded lenders. 
A federal jury eonvkted Husby in November 2002 on charges of' conspiracy, mail fraud and win~ fraud. 
.John M. Franklin, who was Monon's chief financial ollieer, is schnduled to bn sentenced on similar ehargns next week. 
The mnn wern top nxccutivos at Monon dur­ing the 1 990s, when it was one of the nation's largest makers of cargo trail11rs. Tho men wore arrestnd following a lengthy investigation by thn FBI, Indiana State Poliee and the U.S. Trustee's Ollicn. which contactnd fnderal prose­eutors aftnr Monon lilnd for Chapter 11 bank­ruptcy protection in IIJIJ6. 

Qwest moves closer to winning MCI 
Verizon given five business days to respond or will lose bidding war against Qwcst 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK MCI embraced a $9.75 billion takeover bid from Qwest on Saturday, finally succumb­ing to pressure to scrap its lower-priced deal with Vorizon. 
Vnrizon Communications lne. now has live businnss days to respond with an improved proposal or possi­bly walk away tho loser arter a nearly thrno-month bidding war. 
MCI Inc. said its board of directors, after shunning thrne prior bids from Qwost Communications Inc., had determined that the latest ofTnr was superior to the long-distance phmw com­pany's $7.5 billion agren­mont with Verizon. 
Verizon's options inelude boosting its oiTnr a second timn or walking away with a sizable breakup fee. 
Alternatively, the New York-based phone company muld have MCI sharnhold­nrs vote on tho current dnal, hoping that 11nough arn fnarful of Qwest's shaky financns and strategic out­look. 
Vorizon and Qwest have benn battling for MCI since late January, when their mutual rival SBC Communications Inc. reached a deal to acquire long-distance carrier AT&T Corp. for $16 billion. Based with completing the trans­action that it considers Qwest's proposal gives thn in Ashburn, Va., MCI has action and executing the superior and in tho best board until May 3 to been hit hard by competi­business plan." · interests of its shareown­change its recommendation tion and a bankruptcy Qwest, the local phone ers," the statement said. away l'rom Verizon. brought on by tho company in 14 mostly west­Should Verizon choose to Several major MCI sharn­WorldCom scandal, but still ern states, is burdened by a pay more, it wouldn't nec­holdnrs agreed to hnlp possesses a valuable cus­high dnbt load. It issued a essarily need to match thn finance the latost Qwost tomer base and national statement Saturday saying $30 a share which Qwest bid, a move that intnnsifind fiber-optic network. it was "gratified" by the offered Thursday. prnssure on MCI's board of' 
Although AT&T is in far news from MCI. MCI's board has twice directors to switch nwrger bettor finaneial health than However, Denver-based accepted lower-priced deals partners. MCI, the bidding has placed Qwost also sounded a note with Verizon, so that Still, MCI din~etors have a much higher relative val­of distrust after being treat­Verizon could prevail again repeatedly expressed eon­uation on MCI. ed as a seeond-dass suitor with a lower bid. The eur­corn about Qwest's $17 bil­
Verizon, one of the for so long, its ·prior offers rent Verizon deal, for lion debt load and the long­nation's two biggest local used chiefly a lever for example, values MCI at tnrm valun of' the Qwest and wireless phone compa­extracting more money $23.10 per share, or $4.40 shares MCI investors would nies, said in a statement from Verizon. less than Qwest's previous receive as partial payment. Saturday it would consider "We expect MCI to build offer of $27.50. The MCI board also has all its options. It questioned upon its deelaration of The MCI statement, questioned whdhor Qwnst whether Qwest's higher superiority with specific which came several hours ean meet its forecast of offer would be "sufficient acts of support, including before a deadline set by nearly $3 billion a year in compensation for the expeditiously seeking regu­Qwest in submitting its new eost savings from the pro­increased risks associated latory approvals of a trans-offer on Thursday, said posed merger. 

Hybrid sales in U.S. rise by 81 percent 
dozen new hybrids during the next brands accounted for more than 96 
Associated Press 

three years. percent or the hybrid vehides regis­
DETROIT -Hybrid vehicle sales Lonnie Miller, director of analytical ten~d. nearly doubled in the United States last solutions for Southfield-based Polk, Toyota Motor Corp., whieh was the year as gas prices soared and a wider said federal and state tax credits for first automaker to commercially mass­variety of models attracted consumers. fuel-efficient vehides have helped spur produce and sell hybrid ears, continues 
New hybrid vehicle registrations hybrid sales. More people also are buy­to dominate the market. The Toyota totaled 83,153 in 2004, an 81 percent ing into the idea that driving a hybrid is Prius, which went on sale in tlw Unitnd increase over the year before, accord­socially responsible, he said. States in 2000, occupied 64 percent of ing to data released Monday by R.L. "What's different about this than the U.S. hybrid market last year, with Polk & Co., which collects and inter­other types of vehides is that hybrids 53,761 new Prius ears registernd, Polk prets automotive data. are about what people want to give said. 
Still, hybrids represented less than 1 back and what they want to feel they're Toyota is on track to double Prius percent of the 17 million new vehides doing with their vehides,'' Miller said. sales again this year. The company sold sold in 2004. But the U.S. hybrid mar­Despite the arrival of Ford Motor 22,880 Prius ears in tlw 11rst three ket has grown by 960 percent since Co.'s 1-'ord Escape hybrid in showrooms months of the year, more than double 2000, when 7,781 wore sold, according last year, Japanese automakers contin­the number it sold in the 11rst throe to tho Polk data, and major automak­ued to control the vast majority of the months of 2004, aeeording to Autodata ors are planning to introduce about a U.S. market, Polk said. Japanese Corp. 

Monday, April 25, 2005 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 

Shirt 
continued from page 1 
could find a way to bottle the Notre Dame spirit, you could light up the universe." 
But despite Weis' praise, the general reception of the Shirt among students has been unmistakably negative. Perhaps the most common complaint about the new look has been the color. 
"I think the change was a good idea, with the change of coach. but I don't like the color," freshman Chris Doughty said. "How would you even describe this color? This doesn't convey Notre Dame to 
ill(~." 
Many students expressed distaste for the "golden" hue, arguing that not only does the color fail to represent Notre Dame, but rather it reflects the look of rival universities. 
"It's not gold, it's yellow," freshman Cormac Harkin said. "It looks like the [Boston College] "superfan" shirt ­and we don't want to copy B.C. in any way, shape or form." 

Freshman K~Jra Brennan agreed the new color is remi­niscent of Boston College, one of Notre Dame's most recog­nized foes. 
"I think they should have kept it green to stay with the sea of green," Brennan said. 
Furthermore, yellow is a color also associated with Notre Dame's infamous Ann Arbor adversary. Sophomore Adam Pabarcus said although the shirt is "nice," he sides with many students in his unambiguous distaste for the hue. 
"I guess it goes against the tradition of green ... [which isJ a more of a distinct color that is better identified with Notre Dame," Pabarcus said. "One friend noted how we play Michigan at Michigan, and the yellow shirts aren't going to be good." 
Other students poked fun at The Shirt's message, calling it corny and confusing. 
"I don't know what bottle is big enough to light up the uni­verse," Doughty said. 
Although a large number of students are displeased with The Shirt, it remains unclear as to whether their distaste will translate into fewer sales. Last year more than 86,000 shirts were sold, Alumni Association Executive Director Chuck Lennon said. 
"The support of this product is so significant because it helps so many factors in this society," Weis said at the cere­mony Friday. 
Students have been wearing The Shirt to football games for 15 years, and the project ­sponsored by Student Activities and the Notre Dame Alumni Association -has raised more than $2.5 million to support student organiza­tions and charities. 
Maddie Hanna contributed to this report. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 
Golf 
continued from page 1 
less challenging course that has no water and, because of its close location, it is easily accessible to students. 
John Foster, General Manager and Head Golf Pro, described Warren as "dedicat­ed to classic golf course archi­tectural motifs: small, rolling greens, many greenside bunkers and long fairways." 
A practice range, chipping and putting green are avail­able to University students. The golf course also offers student clinics and private les­sons. 

"We will ... tailor clinics to vary. During the fall and specific groups as needed," spring, 18 holes cost $15; dur­Foster said. ing the summer, 18 holes cost 
WGC hosts several outings $17 on Monday-Thursday and and tourna-$22 on ments for stu­Friday­dent groups "As many ofour students Sunday. Fall and campus and spring
progress into the business 
organiza­golfing pass­
world, they will find that
t i o n s , es cost $200. whether resi­golfis an excellent way to Practicing dence halls, on the range
network both internally 
clubs or grad­costs stu­
and externally."
uate student dents $5 for groups, a small Foster said. John Foster bucket or $8 Depending for a large
general manager
on the time of bucket. year, the Students Warren golf and Notre Dame feel that the prices charged Courses' prices differ. and difficulties of both courses 
Student green fees at WGC are reasonable. 
"The prices for the nine-hole little more expensive, but course are pretty fair," sopho­worth it" more Katie Murphy said. "It's Foster said he hopes that not a great golf will remain course but I important to think it's in a ''The Warren Notre Dame stu­better condition dents.
course is a little 
than most public "As many of our 
more expensive,
courses But the students progress public course is · but worth it." into the business not challenging world, they will at all. " find that golf is an
Patrick Cain 
Sophomore excellent way to
sophomore
Patrick Cain paid network both $5 for his last internally and round. externally," he said. "Golf is 
"It's not the nicest !course] truly a game that can be but very reasonable for $5. played for the rest of one's And there is a good view of life." the Dome, no water, and it's pretty easy. I like that," Cain Contact Kathy Lee at said. "The Warren course is a klee7@nd.edu 



Late spring storlll takes 


midwest by surprise 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -More than a month after the start of spring, a rare sno~storm dumped more than a foot of snow on parts of the Midwest and Appalachians Sunday, aggravating residents who thought they had packed away their scarfs and shovels for good. 
"My wife is livid because this was a long winter.... Even peo­ple who normally don't com­plain about it are at the end of their wits," said Frank Hanley, who said he had a foot of heavy. wet snow on his deck in the northeastern Ohio town of Chardon. 
The two-day storm brought temperatures 25 degrees below the normal of around 60 as snow fell across parts of Michigan, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Tennessee and North Carolina. 
By Sunday evening, a foot of snow had fallen in eastern Michigan and 10 to 13 inches were reported in Detroit's northern suburbs, said meteor­ologist Greg Smith of the National Weather Service. In contrast, the snow in downtown Detroit was barely sticking to the ground. 
In Ohio, the southern and eastern suburbs of Cleveland received 14 inches of snow, the Weather Serviee said. 

In western North Carolina, about five inches had fallen on Grandfather Mountain, where the overnight low was 16 degrees and wind gusts reached 139 mph, meteorologists said. 
The storm was expected to taper off late Sunday, and temper­atures in the region wore expect­ed to return to a more spring-like 50 degrees on Monday. Spring began on March 20. 
The Detroit Tigers postponed a home game against the Minnesota Twins for the second straight day. A makeup date for Sunday's game was not immedi­ately announced. The teams were scheduled to make up the first game Monday afternoon. 
Misti Hunt, a bartender in Bad Axe, Mich., said business was slow Sunday evening as the snow made the roads treacher­ous and some even totally impassable. 
"A week ago we were wearing shorts and tank tops," she said. 
The wet, heavy snow snapped tree branches and power lines, leaving about 80,000 FirstEnergy customers in the Cleveland area without power Sunday. Some were not expect­ed to have their electricity restored until Monday, said Mark Durbin, a spokesman for the utility. 



unch and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Thursday, April 28th 12:00 -1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and. Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal lunch and study break at the Co-Mo. 

r--------------------------------------------------~--~---~-~ 
Monday, April 25, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
GUEST ARTISTS 
THE CASHORE MARIONETIES Decio Mainstage Theatre Thursday May 12 at 7 pm Free and open to the public; tickets required 

MUSIC 
ND SYMPHONIC BAND AND SYMPHONIC WINDS Leighton Concert Hall Monday April 25 at 7:30pm Free and open to the public; tickets required 
THE NOTRE DAME CHORALE AND CHAMBER ORCHESTRA Leighton Concert Hall Friday April 29 at 8 pm Free and open to the public; tickets required 

FILM 
All films are shown in the Browning Cinema. All film prices are $6 general public, $5 faculty/staff, $4 seniors, and $3 all students. 
THE SEA INSIDE (2004) Directed by Alejandro Amen6bar Thursday April 28 at 7 and 10 pm Friday April 29 at 7 and 1 0 pm 
THE BEST YEARS OF OUR LIVES (1946) Directed by William Wyler Saturday April 30 at 3 pm PAC CLASSIC 100 
A Special Outdoor Screening on the Quad! MODERN TIMES (1936) Directed by Charlie Chaplin Saturday April 30 at 9 pm Rain site: Browning Cinema 
Mike Judge and Don Hertzfeldt present THE ANIMATION SHOW 2005 Multiple directors Thursday May 5 at 7 and 10 pm 
A FISTFUL OF DOLLARS (1964) Directed by Sergio Leone Friday M~y 6 at 7 pm 
THE GOOD, THE BAD, AND THE UGLY (1967) Directed by Sergio Leone Friday May 6 at 1 0 pm 

DANCE 
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY Presented by Southold Dance Theater Tickets: $25, $19 seniors, $12 all students Friday April 29 at 7:30pm Saturday April 30 at 2 and 7:30 pm 

SPECIAL EVENT 
GO RED FOR WOMEN Sponsored by the American Heart Association Leighton Concert Hall, Philbin Studio Theatre, Main Lobby Tuesday May 3 from 5-8 pm Tickets: $25 
i 
"' I
I I 
I 
., 
I 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, April 25, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
So much for Halliburton 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: jennifer Kenning SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 63I-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 63l-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.J@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4 540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contenr, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserveS the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objecrh;ely as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edirors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Claire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Obscrvj:r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacati~)n periods. A subscription m The Observer is $100 tOr one academic year; $55 for one semesler. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining I fall Send addrCS5 correcdot15 to: Notre Dame, IN 46556.07JlJ The Observer Periodical postotgc: pjiJ Jl None Dame P.O. Bo< 779 and additional mailing.oftic(:S. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nocre Damc,lN 465S6~0n9 

The Ol1Sttvcr is a member of the AsMldatC!d Prc:i.~. All tcproduction rlght$ arc resc:rvC!d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

And to think, I was this close to gainful employment. Those hooded robe-wear­ing executives at Halliburton started recruiting me roughly two years ago upon discovering that, wonder of won­ders, a Notre Dame 
Bill

student favors unfet­
Rinner
tered oil exploration across the world. 
A Voice of 
Their weekly emails 
Reason 
became tiresome, true, but I found myself flattered by their insistence that I join their ranks upon graduation. The allure of a seven­digit starting salary certainly had its perks, particularly when informed that I only had to keep my GPA above 2.0 in my fmal semester. Alas, the enterprising efforts of the Class of 2005 halted me in my capitalistic tracks when a represen­tative asked me to sign the Senior Class Pledge of Social Responsibility. 
Really, I just wanted the trip to the gas pump to be slightly less painful, since not everyone can afford a new Toyota Prius with the added option of a creative anti-Bush bumper sticker pre-attached. The Senior Class Pledge, however, implored me to maintain a "disciplined sensibility to the poverty, injustice and oppression that burden the lives of so many," so I pondered whether working for a capitalist organization hell-bent on developing the infrastructure of third­world actually passed the test. 
My training in economics, the soul food of social scientists and bane of the idealists, told me yes, corporations who exclusively focus on the profit motive can in fact improve the lives of the impoverished across the world. 
When I asked the pledge representa­tive what he thought about Halliburton, conveniently glossing over my impend­ing corporate coronation, he told me that my future employer is "the worst corporation out there." Just as my pen touched the pledge, I pulled it back in horror. So much for oil-driven poverty relief. Realizing that if Notre Dame's mission statement, adapted into the Class of 2005's agenda for the future, has any teeth, then distinctions must be drawn as to which jobs are good, bad or downright socially irresponsible. The representative reassured me that no job is necessarily out of bounds, so long as we take the words of the pledge to heart, but my shock turned to resent­ment. 
Now I knew the meaning of Catholic guilt. I took a rain check on signing the pledge until I could reevaluate my inter­nal motives and their potential effects on civil society and the ideal of social jus­tice. I called Halliburton to ask for more time before making a final decision, and the Dark Sith Lord cursed, spitting "Don't tell me that pledge is going to take another one away from us." 
My conscience in jeopardy, I consid­ered the careers my fellow arts and let­ters majors will soon commenee ­Teach for America, Alliance for Catholic Education, NGOs from Oxfam to Greenp(mce. Their genuine commitment to making a direct positive impact on the world squashed my selfish plans to light Cuban cigars with $20 bills while laughing devilishly in the boardroom. 
How can a lifelong capitalist reconcile notions of empathizing with the poor and "striving to make [Notre Dame's] values present in any organization for which I work?" Once again, the wisdom of Smith, Ricardo, Friedman, Bhagwati and other bedside reads provided me ample support. Never lost should be the notion that capitalism, free markets, and limited government regulation pro­vide the greatest good, certainly serving to advance the opportunities of the least advantaged. After four years of educa­tion at Notre Dame, these simple tenets should be as recognizable as the Ten Commandments. 

Questions of taxation, redistribution and the extent of regulation will always enliven the masses and inspire the polit­ical careers of half the aforementioned arts and letters majors. However, wealth creation precedes wealth redistribution, ambition and competition allow trust­funded politicians to decry the evils of ambition and competition and human ingenuity created the endowment on which our University's education relies. 
So why on earth are business majors most likely to be intimidated by the lan­guage of the 2005 Senior Class Pledge of Social Responsibility? Their service to humanity is decidedly less direct than the efforts of those who devote their next several years to helping the needy, but neither side of the service/business divide deserves the right to morally grandstand. 
Perhaps by carrying the pledge reminder card in my pocket, I'll remem­ber to bring up questions such as "Yes, but how does our corporation serve humanity and further the common good?" The irony abounds once one opens the mind to the possibility that self-interested actions directly con­tribute to these ends. Questioning or decrying the moral motives of corporate America is an easy way out, but con­fronting the idea that some business executives deserve their salaries should not be offensive on any level. 
I got what I deserved. Two hours later, I called Halliburton back to learn that they had already given my dream job to another candidate. Such is the competi­tive world. I guess I'll start my own oil company. 
Bill Rinner is a· senior economics major. He can be contacted at wrin­ner@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Sports Megan O'Neil Justin Schuver 

OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Katie Perry Ken Fowler Tricia DeGroot Tim Doherty 
·~ s···· h. ., t· tt
:I ·u··: .... ,.... •• ~.. I Q,. ; ·•'i'··r(

Viewpoint Scene What are you doing 
"If knowledge can create problems, 
Joey King Rama 
this summer? 
it is not through ignorance that we 
Graphics Gottumukkala 
can solve them. "




ItO'tb;tdit~f,~t

Graham Ebetsch IDustrator 
Isaac Asimov

Vote by Tuesday at 5 p.m. at
Meg Dwyer www.ndsmcobserver.com 
author

Iwww.Adsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Monday, April 25, 2005 
page I I 
Why care? 
Seniors eomposing their last column for The Observnr typically offer nostal­gie insight into the friendships that made their timn at collogn as valuable as it was. While the relationships I have been able to 
Michael

form bore havn 

Poffenberger

cnrtainly catalyznd good nwmorins 
Say Why Not

and individual growth, I will instead use this article to discuss what I pnrceivo to be bltrriers to healthy relationships. 
A simpln look at some of the differ­encflS among people around us, or even more evidently at those among people in distant parts of the world, makes it dnar that them are two categories of human experience: the universal and tlw changing. The universal ineludes all unchangnable facts about humans and how they relate. The changing, on thn otlwr hand, eonsists of the con­structions of' the collective psyche, derived from human perception but also manifest quite concretoly. 
Thnse changing constructions utilize snts of stories and mythologies to teach us how to interpret the world around us and to view our own role in it. They include components of race, class, beauty, authority, consumption, popu­larity, politics, power and infinite other levels of identity to which we ascribe ourselves. Different cultures and com­munities each hold their own set of sto­ries and assumptions. 
But some stories do not correspond as well as others with the universals of human experience. Slavery, for exam­ple, was a reality based on deeply falla­cious assumptions regarding human value and difference. Were the assump­tions upon which slavery was based any different than many that still exist today, even amongst compatriots on a college campus? 
We judge slavery due to the fact that it led to such sharp division and suffer­ing, and because it was based upon an ideology that valued some human lives more than others. It was not just the physical institution of slavery itself that was offensive; it was tho way that slav­ery affected the social fabric, pitting one against another, forming strictly hierarchical and consequently oppres­sive relationships of master and slave. It was the way that assumed differ-

U-WIRE 
Losing the silent m_ajority 
If you can't beat 'em, impeach 'em. Hepublicans, Jews, Christians, Or kill 'em. Muslims and Hindus. We have differing 
That's the new motto of the Heligious views on the tax system, on abortion Hight. Furious at their inability to and on the meaning of life. What we "save" Terri Schiavo, Pat Hobertson's share is a desire to see our problems minions have solved by respectful and civil delibera­
Jesse Abrams­

rod iscovPrml thnir tion, not by protesters holding giant

Morley

favorite punching cardboard spoons in front of a hospice 
bag: thtl judieiary. in Florida.
Daily

At a conference We may not always agree with
Northwestern 

earlier this month judges' decisions, but we respect their 
in Washington sponsored by the role within our government. And the .Judeo-Christian Council for last thing we want is for our elected Constitutional Hestoration, the punch­leaders to use threats of impeachment 
ing bag of ehoiee was Supreme Court and violence to bully an independent .Justice Anthony M. Kennedy. Based on branch of government into compliance 
Knnnedy's judicial opinions opposing with a highly partisan agenda. flxeeution of juveniles and anti-sodomy .lust as the excesses of the far left in 
laws. at least three speakers called for the late 1960s helped drive the Silent 
his impeachnwnt, according to The Majority into Nixon's camp, there are Washington Post. One accused already signs that the new Silent 
Kennedy of' upholding "Marxist, Majority is fed up with the far right's 
l.nninist. Satanic principles." For those shenanigans. Countless polls showed of you unfamiliar with Kennedy, he that most Americans disagreed with was appointed by that famous lover of President Bush and Congress' med­
Marxism, Honald Heagan, and cast the dling in the Schiavo affair. Recently, dneiding votn that put into office that DeLay was forced to back off some of famous Satan worshipper, George W. his more dramatic anti-judiciary hate Bush. speech amid calls for his resignation 
l.nst you think these are just the from his leadership post. musings of a handful of nutballs, con­But the work is not done. If we in the sidnr that a pair of congressmen and new Silent Majority want better from two senatorial aides attended the con­our leaders. we have to make our voic­fnrence. House Majority Leader Tom es heard. We must contact our repre­Dnl.ay, H-Texas, was scheduled to sentatives and let them know that we appnar as wnll but canceled to attend reject this kind of extremism. And in .John Paul ll's funeral. 2006 and 2008, we must speak loudly 
At a time when judges find them­at the polls, ridding the halls of snlvns quite litnrally under attack, you Congress of demagogues like DeLay would nxpeet public officials to loudly who seek to reduce our politics to a and clearly condemn violence against game of who can scream loudest and government employees. Yet both carry the biggest stick. DeLay and Sen. John Cornyn, H­After Schiavo's death, a protester Tnxas., have made threatening com­outside her hospice held up a sign mnnts about judges in recent weeks, reading, "This is how the Holocaust with Cornyn virtually blaming violence began." In a way, that demonstrator against thn judidary on judges making was right. For it is only when the great "political decisions." majority of citizens remain silent in 
It is becoming incrnasingly clear that the face of inflammatory, hateful and the Hnligious Hight, buoynd by the per­violent rhetoric that the vicious few ception that so-called moral-values can perpetrate such a great evil. votnrs played a key roln in President Bush's re-election. are so drunk on This column originally appeared on pownr that they have lost touch with April 20 in The Daily Northwestern, thn great majority of Americans­the daily publication at Northwestern what Hichard Nixon used to call the University. "Silnnt Majority." The views in this column are those of 
We in today's Silent Majority are men the author and not necessarily those of and women, Democrats and The Observer. 
ences allowed one to justify the exploitation of the other. This institu­tion deprived both slaves and slave­owners of their humanity, as all parties to divided human relations are losing the opportunity for free and trusting relationships with each other. 
It is through crossing boundaries for encounters with the assumed "other" that this realization is born. It could be two freshman of different race, nation­al or class backgrounds who get put in a dorm room together and still form equal friendship. It could be travel to a foreign country and making friends with Italians, Chileans, Ugandans or Chinese, witnessing the way that assumed differences can melt to an awareness of radical sameness. 
Theorist Paolo Freire wrote of his personal experience working with poor peasants in the Brazilian Landless Movement as one of entering "a process of mutual liberation." lie came to discover the way that divisions are oppressive, and prevent people from experiencing true and equal relation­ship with others in recognition of shared humanity. Freire called his increasing awareness of the effects that hierarchical structures havn on tlw fundamnntal ways we relate with each other the "awakening of a eritical con­sciousness." Many would des<~ribe it simply as figuring out what really mat­ters in life. 

This commentary is not to say that we should all begin reading radical Brazilian revolutionaries. It is to note that broader structures sueh as class or race, when divisive and hierarchical, have debilitating eiTects on relation­ships. And, if participation in rightly­ordered relationships is the fullest expression of our humanity-and I'm fully convinced that it is -then we should question the worth that these institutions may havn and constantly challenge our own role within them, ensuring that we may be neithnr exploited nor exploiter. Eaeh of us has a vested interest in doing so. 
Michael Poffenberger is a senior anthropology and peace studies major. lie can be contacted at mpoffenb@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

Study drugs: how do they work? 
For the three to seven percent of Dexedrine often report staying awakn students diagnosed with Attention for extended periods of time. They Deficit Hyperaetivity Disorder. stimu­also swear by the fact that the drugs lants like Hitalin or Adderall may impart a heightened focus and ability mean the difference between success to concentrate. and failure in But in his opinion, Karam-llage 

Klngson

classes. The exact said, "For the person (using these 
Man

meehanism by drugs) who doesn't have ADIID, I which these drugs Michigan think it is an illusion that they are work, however, is Daily concentrating more." still a puzzle for "With Hitalin and amphetamines, scientists. And, for students who you run the risk of' addiction if you're abuse these prescription medications, not careful," Karam-llage said. The the results are often unpredictable. Drug Enforcement Agency has dassi­
The popular prescription drug dex­lied amphetaminn-based stimulants troamphetamine, sold under the under the Class II schedule, carrying names Addend! and Dexedrine, is a restrictions on proscriptions and central nervous system stimulant. refills of thn medication. Despite being called stimulants, the A 2005 report in the journal class of drugs known as ampheta­Addiction by Soan McCabe, acting mine's actually has a calming effect director of thn University Substancn on sufferers of ADIID. Children Abuse Heseareh Center, surveyed afllicted with the disorder "don't have illicit prescription stimulant usn at thn capacity to concentrate. and trail four-year universities. At one college, and shift from one task to another," up to 25 percent of respondents indi­said Maher Karam-llage, an addic­cated that they had abused stimu-. tion psychiatrist and dirnctor of the !ants during the past year. It was also Chelsea-Ann Arbor Treatment Center. found that more eompetitive universi­
Sufferers with ADHD are believed ties had higher rates of stimulant to lack certain neurotransmitters -abuse. chemicals released by brain cells that The pharmacnutical community is influence the action of other brain moving toward altnrnate tmatmnnt cells -in the frontal lobes of their options with drugs that control nor­brains. This is the area of the brain epinnphrine, another nnurotransmit­closest to the forehead with the most ter found in the frontal lobe. Sold advanced brain functions, responsible under the brand names Wellbutrin for coordinating our actions and and Strattera, they am slownr-acting planning our next moves while block­and lack the dopamine kick of ing out other impulses we may have. amphetamines. The epinephrine Without it, the ability to concentrate drugs are less likely to be abused, and block out impulsive actions is though they can takn up to several impaired. weeks to show an ell'ect. 
"You want to think of the brain as Karam-llago believed that the pop­several areas," Karam-llage said. ular conception of using "study "There are impulse-generating areas drugs" to enhance aeadnmie perform­and impulse-controlling areas. With ance during the upcoming exam peri­ADHD, the frontal lobe is not working od was still misplaced. "It's not evnn to inhibit other areas of the brain." the ethies-it's simply not nll'netivn," 
For narcoleptics, or people who fall the psychiatrist said. "So you're asleep uncontrollably, amphetamines shooting yourself, not in the foot, but function the way other kinds of stim­in the head, right?" ulants do -they promote wakeful­ness. For narcoleptics and healthy This column originally appeared on people, the stimulants can cause the April 19 in The Michigan Daily, the brain to pump out much more of the daily publication at the llnitwrsity of neurotransmitter dopamine in the Michigan. frontal lobes, keeping a person The views in this column are those awake, alert and "wired." ofthe author and not necessarily 
Students who take Adderall or those ofThe Observer. 


THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Monday, April 25, 2005 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Irishpalooza ends AnTostal 
Students brave the cold, pack Legends to see attend SUB-sponso11 

By BOB COSTA Scene Writer 
Notre Dame's AnTostal celebration came to a loud, but unusually cold conclusion this past Saturday at Legends. Although the Student Union Board's free hamburgers and hot dogs may have been a bit soggy and the outdoor tents were filled with snowflakes instead of students, the five artists that performed put on energetic performances that culminated a busy day at Notre Dame. 
With stragglers from the local "PigTostal" celebration and holdovers from the Blue and Gold game still around, Irishpalooza was able to bring in an audience that was still in the mood to revel come 9 p.m. Although the concert was mostly restricted to indoors, the audience seemed to not mind too much. 
NO-TV, led by sophomore Adam Fairholm, provided a three­camera multimedia and video live recording that played on the Legends televisions simultaneously, which gave the campus bar a professional venue ambience. 
Before the three headliners of Michael Tolcher, Ambulance LTD and The Walkmen performed, the student contemporary brass group M.O.B.B. played a 45-minute set. The fourteen members of this popular campus band played a wide variety of hip-hop, rap, rock and pop tunes with swagger and unusually sophisticated musicianship. Their highest moment came when they played a bluesy cover of Marvin Gaye's classic "Let's Get It On," which was met with a massive crowd sing-a-long. 
After building up their fan base this year playing at the Collegiate Jazz Festival, K's Grill and Reekers, M.O.B.B. let the near-capacity crowd inside Legends dance to the beats provid­ed by a montage of trombones, sax and trumpet. At times, 
M.O.B.B. had so many complex and syncopated rhythms occur­ring at the same time that they seemed more jam-band than brass ensemble. 
At a little after 9 p.m., singer-songwriter Michael Tolcher strolled onstage with his fellow three band members to play an hour-long set. Even though many students were unfamiliar with his music when he walked on stage, by the end of the per­formance, numerous audience members were dancing right in step with Tolcher. 
"Sometimes, you just have to keep striking the match, and eventually there's lire," said Tolcher after his performance. 
Ambulance with a solid back rhythm that let the band create a wall of sound that pushed and 

Tolcher and his band played two new songs at the show that did not appear on his 2004 debut album "I Am." From the lithesome "Mother's Garden" to the soul-infused "Please," Tolcher used his Legends gig as both a chance to experiment on some fresh material and engage his newfound listeners with staples from his album. . 
One of the highlights for Michael Tolcher came at the end of his show, when he played his single "Mission Hesponsible." 
Instead of just playing the studio orchestration of the song, Tolcher improvised lyrics and added verse that he was feeling in the room as the vibe became unified. He riffed on politics, inspira­tion, spirituality and peace before ending with a bombastic guitar jam with his lead guitarist William Duvall. Before going backstage, Tolcher, along with his band, danced in synchronization on stage, which provided numerous laughs since his bassist Michael "Big Tiny" Lindsey is 6 feet 7 inches tall and about 300 pounds. 
After Tolcher performed, Notre Dame student rapper Da Natural performed a short act with both original and cover rap songs -including 
one where his backing track was a speech by Dr. Martin Luther was snowing outside once the membe1 King, Jr. Da Natural was a fitting ·performer to come after came onstage to a crowd that seemed to Tolcher, who himself often blends hip-hop influences into his Ambulance LTD and Tolcher played. Num songs. the crowd screamed their approval of 
Ambulance LTD, an atmospheric indie rock band from who just played on Fox's "The O.C." a few Brooklyn, took the stage next. While playing numerous tunes During the course of their 1 hour and off their two releases "EP" and "LP," Ambulance LTD was able ance, which stretched into the early ho 
to bring Irishpalooza in an entirely different direction than the nights previous three per­formers. 
Lead singer Marcus Congelton of Ambulance LTD was in jovial sprits for his band's show, at times looking like both David Bowie and Jeff Buckley. His vocals on "Stay Where You Are" were superb, soaring right along with the heavy electric guitar riffs. The sound of Ambulance LTD was both vintage and new -a sound that the Rolling Stones would have been proud of 30 years ago during their psychedelic periods. 
The band played many of the songs off "LP," including a brooding version of "Yoga Means Union," an instrumental track that grooved along with frazzled chords. Bassist Matt Dublin was immersed in the music the entire show, providing 
"Sometimes, youjust whether he was gain plane back to New Yor
have to keep striking the 
After Ambulance

match, and eventually 
lrishpalooza performathere's fire." sian was held as so 
members trudged aro grabbed free soda or a

Michael Tolcher 
The Walkmen were ge


Singer-songwriter 
of the doors had to be 1 to severe wind chill facj However, you wouldn1 

"We were on the same flight from Chicago as [The Walkmen] and the entire time we were in the air, the plane was getting kicked around in the wind, and man, for a second I thought we were going to have an indie rock tragedy. " 
Matt Dublin Bassist, Ambulace LTD 
didn't make it to Legends. He had a wild the set's inception, constantly moving aro that lead guitarist Benji Lysaght provided 
"We were on the same flight fro Walkmenl and the entire time we were was getting kicked around in the wind, a I thought we were going to have an i Dublin said, jokingly. 
Of course, both Amb 
Walkmen both made 
time, although Dubli 
Walkmen made Leg, swanky club on the l Manhattan instead of a bar and club in norther 
From pulsating rock 1 off their new album "B "We've Been Had," T 

music. 
If you wanted jazz, food or freak weather, 

prodded the Legends crowd huddled up against place to be on Saturday. the stage's shallow steps. Dublin himself was in an odd mood for the show, since he believed that his band almost Contact Bob Costa at rcostal@nd.edu 
KELLY HIGGINS/The Observer Singer-songwriter Michael Tolcher, a lifelong Notre Dame fan, impressed audi­Ambulance LTD, an indle rock band from Brooklyn, played numerous songs from their 1 ences with his beats and improvised lyrics during his lrishpalooza set. and "EP." The band brought a different atmosphere to their set from the other two head 
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
Monday, April 25, 2005 
page 13 
ek with a bang 
concert that capped offweeks events 
in his nyns from 
with tlw nwlody 
1ir.ago as !Tho hn air, tlw plano lllll, for a SOI~oiHI · rork tragndy," 
1co l:t'l> and Tho 0 tho VfHIUP on ouldn't <~onfirm takn a train or 
ll nrHI nd t hni r a hrinf intnrmis­hravo audinncn I thn snt-up and hnnr. By tho time g on stagn, most t at Lngonds due 
ave even know it ,r Tlw Walkmon ubln in sizn sineo IUS fnmaln fans in 1 lanky NYC lads rwks ago. 
minutn pnrform­~ of Sunday. Tlw rl s sfHHII Ii k e a Jnr l~ast Sidn of ar-froznn studnnt ndiana. os likf~ "Tho Hat" s and Arrows" to 
Walknwn novnr sity and fun dur­ingnr llamilton of both Bono and .gn, as hn hoppml 

itar right out of 
s and hoadlining night, thny all a grnat oppor­IWt f~ach other and to mont their 

k, hip-hop, fnw 1palooza was tlw 



Tips for a special Mom's Day breakfast in bed 
For a spneial Mother's Day, why not pampnr your mom with the ultimate trnat-breakfast in bed. llavo her slnep in whiln you whip up some of these simple and comforting foods. Prnparn most of tho ingredients tho night before so you'll be ready to assmnble overy­thing first thing in the morning. 
Dig out a cute tray and drnss it up with a 
vase of her favorite flowers. Fresh-squnezed Maureen Malloy juice and good quality coffee round out the meal. If you want to add an extra splash of fun, Scene Writer prepare some yummy mimosas. Hemembnr the most important part of this homemade prnsont-a doan kitdwn by the time she gets out of bed. 
Banana-Stufl"ed French Toast 1 firm, ripe banana 3/4 cup half-and-half 2 large eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 1/4 teaspoon cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg 4 (l-inch thiek) sliees day-old ehallah or brioche 2 tablespoons unsalted butter Confectioners' sugar for dusting Accompaniment: Warm maple syrup 
Cut banana into 1/4-inch thick slices. In a bowl, whisk together half­and-half, eggs, vanilla, cinnamon and nutmeg. Cut bread slices hori­zontally almost in half, leaving 1 edge intaet. Stull" each pocket with 4 to 6 banana slices (do not overstum. In a baking dish just large enough to hold bread slices in one layer, arrange slices and pour custard over them. Soak slices, turning them over once or twice to allow bread to absorb all liquid, about 15 minutes. In a 12-inch non­stick skillet melt butter over low heat until foam subsides and eook slices until golden. about 5 minutes on each side. Dust French toast with confectioners' sugar and serve with syrup. Serves two. Courtesy of Gourmet Magazine; Copyright © 2005 Television Food Network, G.P., All Hights Heserved 
Maple Glazed Bacon 12 slices bacon 1/4 cup pure maple syrup 1 teaspoon Dijon mustard 1 teaspoon brown sugar 

Cook the bacon: In a large skillet over medium-high heat, cook bacon in batches until it is browned but not crisp. Drain on paper towels and set aside. Glaze the bacon: Combine the maple syrup, Dijon mustard, and brown sugar in a small bowl and snt aside. Heturn bacon to the skillet, brush with tho glaze, and turn. Cook glazed side down for 2 minutes over low heat. Glaze, turn, and cook for an additional 2 minutes over low heat. Hepeat until all of the glaze is used and serve immediately. Serves four. Courtesy of Country Living Magazine, Copyright iVillage © 2005 www.ivillage.com, All Hights HeserVf~d 
Blueberry Scones 2 cups all-purpose flour 1/4 cup packod brown sugar 1 tablespoon baking powdnr 114 teaspoon salt 1/4 cup butter, chilled 1 cup fresh blueberries 3/4 cup half-and-half cream 1 egg 

Proheat oven to 375°F. Cut butter into mixture of llour. sugar, baking powder and salt. Add blueberries and toss to mix. In separate bowl beat together cream and egg, and slowly pour into dry ingn~dients. stirring with rubber seraper_until dough forms. Knoad just until it comes together, 3 or 4 times. Don't overhandln. Divide dough in hall". On lightly lloured board, shape each half into a 6-ineh round. Cut into 6 wedges. Bake on ungreased sheet about20 minutes at 375"F. Serve warm. Makes 12. Courtesy of Anne Black, Copyright© 2005; www.allrndpcs.com., All Hights Heserved 
Contact Maureen Malloy at mmalloyl@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of www.ushbc.org 

Blueberry scones provide a perfect cap for a Mother's Day meal. 
,....---------------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS .Monday, April25, 2005 

ND WOMEN'S TRACK Lin1ited squad takes part in -weekend n1eet 
MEN's SoccER 


Irish take down Mexican teatn 
remammg, Carlos Vela took wing into the top right corner.
Notre Dame takes 

the next, but Irish goalkeeper Gallardo made a late break exhibition match Chris Cahill made the save. on the ball and could not And Cahill was not done for deflect it away, and Notreagainst young foes the night. Dame had a one-goal advan­
Cahill made one more save, tage. By KEN FOWLER just 18 seconds before the From there, the defense had Sports Writer final horn, to step up 
rejecting Manuel "We've got a lot of because the Hostile environments aren't offense could
Binie?r~~:'s sh~t. work to do to be ready
usually so close to home. Sphttmg ttme not maintain Playing in front of a heavily at goal with for next season, but by possession. The partisan crowd of 3,025 root­Justin Michaud, and large, I'm pretty defense was ing for Mexico on a cold and Cahill finished happy, successful, as wet Friday night at Alumni the night with · Ryan Miller, Field, the Irish beat the four saves. Justin Under-17 Mexican National Michaud played Bobby Clark Mousinho, Ben Team 1-0 in a nail biter. the first 45 min­Irish coach Crouse and 
After taking a 1-0 lead early utes and also Dale Rellas in the second half, Notre stopped four shots on target. forced Mexico out of the box Dame struggled the rest of In contrast, the Notre Dame and into the corners. the way, allowing offense only man­"The back four did excep­the Mexicans to aged four shots tionally well," Clark said. dominate posses­"When you turn it on goal. They were not without help, sion. The first came however, as the Irish midfield
over to the

"We've got to 10 minutes into quickly got back on defense hold the ball bet­Mexicans, you the first half when throughout the entire second te~· coach Bobby don't see it again forward ·Justin half. Clark said. "We McGeeney took a Clark sad the midfield "had
for 20 minutes."

owned the ball shot from the left [quite] a task" but met the over the first 25 wing that was challenge with full effort. minutes of the Bobby Clark saved by Mexican The pressure Mexico put on second half, [but] Irish coach goalkeeper Jesus Notre Dame forced some then we lost it. Gallardo. physical play, as evidenced by 
"And when you The next time a total of 25 fouls (13 in the turn the ball over to the the Irish would see a truly second half) and two yellow Mexicans, you don't see it clean opportunity came early cards -on Notre Dame's again for 20 minutes." in the second half. Rellas and Miller. 
Mexico tried to take advan­Coming off the bench, fresh­"Truthfully, I'm happy," tage of that ball control late, man forward Joe Lapira Clark said. drawing fouls and three free made his presence felt just 14 "We've got a lot of work to kicks in the final 10 minutes. minutes into the second half do to be ready for next sea­
At 83:32, Mexico's Edgar with a lengthy shot that took son, but by and large, I'm Andrade shot the first of the Gallardo by surprise. pretty happy." three, sailing the ball just Lapira gave the Irish the over the top of the net. only goal they would need, a Contact Ken Fowler at 
With under three minutes 25-yard shot from the far left kfowlerl@nd.edu 
Team sends just 11 to Central Collegiates 
By RYAN KIEFER 
Sports Writer 
Mother Nature provided an 
unexpected roadblock for the 
Irish in their quest to qualify ath­
letes for the Big East 
Championships. 
An April cold spell left temper­
atures at the Central Collegiates 
meet in the 30s, wind chills in 
the 20s and athletes and coaches 
alike frustrated with the condi­
tions. 
"[Saturday] was not what track 
and field was meant to be," Irish 
coach Tim Connelly said. 
The Irish had planned to send 
upwards of 20 athletes to 
Champaign, Ill., with hopes of 
earning conference qualifica­
tions and valuable experience. 
With the forecast calling for 
abysmal conditions, the Notre 
Dame coaching staff decided 
Friday to send only 11 athletes, 
keeping home all sprinters for 
fear of injury. Coach Connelly 
explained the decision to send 
the abbreviated team. 
"We sent those who were in 
need of chances to qualify for the 
Big East, and [high jumper] 
Stacey [Cowan] because she has­
n't competed in two weeks," he 
said. 
The small Irish contingent 
fought valiantly but failed to pro­
duce any new Big East qualifica­tions. Meghan Horn turned in a standout performance, fighting the sleet and wind to throw a season best in the shot put, 
14.05 meters, earning her sec­ond place. Horn had already qualified for the Big East with a throw at the Indy relays last weekend. 
Other top performances were turned in by Jacqueline Carter (fourth in the 800 meters), Elizabeth Webster (fifth in the 1,500 meters), Elizabeth Phillip (fourth in the steeplechase) and Cowan (fourth in the high jump). 
Overall it was a difficult week­end for the Irish. While the con­ditions made competing an ardu­ous task, it was frustrating for Connelly to have such a fruitless weekend two weeks before the conference finals. 
"It was not a very productive weekend," he said. "If we had known the meet would have turned out like this, we may have just stayed home. The kids who were here and had a good hard workout may have gotten more out of the weekend. " 
The Irish will hope for better weather next weekend when they will have their final chance to post qualifying marks for the Big East Championships. The team will send athletes to Hillsdale, Mich., for the Gina Relays and to Des Moines, Iowa, for the Drake Relays. Both meets are scheduled to begin Friday. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu 
BASEBALL 

Three -weekend gan1es with Rutgers delayed 
Teams will play a shortened opening game and a nine-inning second game this morning 
complete-game in a row. The Sophomore Dan Kapala will holds a 3-1 record and a solid By TOM DORWART lefty earned his fifth victory take the mound for the Irish in 3.43 ERA. He has also rung up Sports Writer and dropped his Big East ERA the first contest of the day. 50 strikeouts -second most on 
to 2.31. Kapala pitched a complete­the team. Loree owns a 4-2 
This morning at 9:30, Notre The series was put on hold game, two-run gem against the record and a 3.47 ERA. Dame has a chance to jump a Saturday and Sunday because Connecticut Huskies last week­After bitter cold, windy and spot in the Big East Conference of inclement weather condi­end. The second-game starter snowy weather over the week­standings with a pair of wins tions. The teams will play a will be a game-time decision. end, the forecast predicts sun against Villanova. seven-inning 9:30 a.m. game Villanova will send freshman and 47 degrees Fahrenheit at 
The Irish (23-15, 9-4 Big with a nine-inning game to fol­right-hander Kevin Mulvey to game time. East) took the Friday series low approximately 20 minutes the hill in the first game and opener 5-2, as junior ace Tom after the final out of the open­sophomore right-hander Mike Contact Tom Dorwart at Thornton pitched his third er. Loree in the second. Mulvey tdorwart@nd.edu 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Professor seeking full-time nanny · Charming home 1407 Sorin 1/2 mi for summer and/or beyond. from ND, 2 BR, 1 Ba,AC,FP, Full 
LOST & FOUND Competitive salary. References and Bsmt, Gas heat, Fenced transportation required. Contact yard,patio,Gar,Dg Kennel,all Alesha Seroczynski at 247-1064 for applncs. $55,000. 233-7616. 
Black leather wallet of Visiting more information. Fellow @ Kroc Peace Institute miss­ing. Disappeared Tues 4/12 in/around Hesburgh Center for Inti Studies. Most problematic loss: driv-
FoR SALE 
er s license (pink, NL), very difficult to replace. If seen, PLS RETURN, RISH CROSSINGS Luxurious, spa-drop off at Kroc Ins!., no questions cious homes one block east of cam-asked. Thx M Parlevliet, tel 1-2628/ pus. Walk to campus yearround. 1·0253; parlevliet.1 @nd.edu Closer 1o the Joyce Center than 24 
of the 27 dorms! Now under con­struction! For more information: Go to: www.lrishCrossings.com Email:
FoR SALE lrishCrossings@ gmail.com 
Brand name Queen pillowtop mat-Summer Camp Jobs! Work with tress set. New in plastic. Full war-people with disabilities. Great job ranty. $185. 574-876-4474 New London Lakes Condo, walking distance to ND, 3 bedrooms, 2 baths, lake view, 2 car garage, pool, completely remodeled $129,900 (574) 256-2198 or (574) 255-3930 

FOR RENT 
Great 6-7 bdrm home available 6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrrn avail­able NOW. Both Close to ND,W/D,on-site parking. ND Internet Canopy access. Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 
experience,fun people,make money! Near Wisconsin Dells. Full mattress set with warranty. 2&3 bdrrn houses close to ND. www.EasterSealsWisconsin.com or Unopened in Plastic. Sacrifice $145. $350/mo/person.. Lawn service & call 1.800.422.2324 574-231-4522. appliances incl. 273-4889. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW 
LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES 
LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUS­
ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BED­
ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. 
MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006­2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7­8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEB­SITE WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER 574-234-2436 OR 574-315-5032. 
www.andersonNDrentals.com 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 
S.B. AVE -605 ST. PETER CALL 532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM 
2,4 & 5 B-Rooms,close to campus, call 234-9923, ask for Rod. 

6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK 4 bdrrn house, 1.5 FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER ba.Furnished.Family or 2 grad stu-MONTH + DEP. STAFF AND FAG-dents. $900/mo + utilities. Close to ULTY ONLY. CALL BRUCE 876-ND. 287-7189 or lv msg 3537. 
Beautiful suite available for gradua-STUDENT RENTALS $400 PER lion, football weekends and all spe-MONTH All utilities, ADT security, cial events. phone/cable/DSL, WID, Lawn serv-Near ND. Reasonably priced. ND ice. 2,3,4,5 bdrms. Avaii.05/06. Call alum owner/managed. 574-271­315-3215 7205 
4-5 bdrm,2 bath house in SB. Lots GREAT LOCATION: 522 Napoleon. of room. Call Judy 574-298-6217. 4blks from ND. 
2bdrm remodeled home available 5-bedroom house for rent 2005-06. 5/1. $600, (219)629-5483. Close to campus. 1 05 Marquette Ave. 232-6964. ND Grad Student renting studio apt. 
for 05/06 year. 1 mile from ND. 2 bdrm, 1 bath remodeled furnished $400/mo includes all utilities + cable ~ouse close to ND, $700/mo. TV+ internet 574-339-0582. 2844089,9-5pm; 703-7276217 after 
5pm Clean homes close to ND. 2-8 
bdrms. High-end and furnished. 1 bdrm apt.1/2 mi to ND. Ask about FREE student rent pro­$575/mo.Laundry room. Call 283-gram. Blue & Gold Homes 0325. (574)250-7653. 
AROUND THE NATION 
Monday, April 25, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE Ot)SERVER·s wtRE SERVICEs Page 15 
Major League Baseball 
American League East 
tpam n•conl perc. last 1 0  GB  
Baltimore 12-7 .632 6-4  
Boston 11·8 .579 7-3  1  
Toronto 9·11 .450 3·7  3.5  
New York 8·11 .421 3-7  4  
Tampa Bay 8·11 .421 5·5  4  
American League Central  
tPam l'tH:ord pnrc. last 10  GB  
Chicago 15·4 .789 8·2  
Minnesota 10-7 .588 6·4  4  
Cleveland 8·11 .421 5·5  1  
Detroit 7-10 .412 4·6  1  
Kansas City 5-14 .263 2·8  10  
American League West  
toam nwonl pPI'C. last 1 0  GB  
Los Angeles 10·8 .556 5·5  
Oakland 9·9 .500 6·4  1  
Texas 10·10 .500 6·4  1  
Seattle 9·10 .474 4·6  1.5  
National League East  
tmtm rncord pore. last I 0  GB  
Florida 11·8 .579 7·3  
Atlanta 11-8 .579 5·5  
New York 10-9 .526 7·3_  1  
Washington 10·9 .526 5·5  1  
Philadelphia 8-11 .421 4·6  3  
National League Central  
t.oam rtword ptH'c. last I 0  (;B  
St. Louis 12·5 .706 8·2  
Chicago 9·9 .500 5·5  3.5  
Cincinnati 9-9 .500 5·5  3.5  
Houston 8·10 .444 4-6  4:5  
Milwaukee 7-11 .389 2·8  5.5  
Pittsburgh 6·12 .333 4·6  6.5  
National League West  
toam rnwnl p11rc. last 10  GB  
Los Angeles 13·5 .722 7·3  
Arizona 11·8 .579 5·5  2.5  
San Francisco 8·10 .444 4·6  5  
San Diego 8·11 .421 3·7  5.5  
Colorado 6·12 .333 5·5  1  

NFL Draft First Round 
{llayer. flOS. school team 
1 Alex Smith, QB Utah 49ers 2 Ronnie Brown, RB Auburn Dolphins 3 Brayton Edwards, WR Michigan Browns 4 Cedric Benson, RB Texas Bears 5 Carnell Williams, RB Auburn Buccaneers 6 Adam Jones, CB West Virginia Titans 7 Troy Williamson, WR South Carolina Vikings 8 Antrel Rolle, CB Miami, Fl. Cardinals 9 Carlos Rogers, CB Auburn Redskins 10 Mike Williams, WR usc Lions 11 Demarcus Ware, DE Troy Cowboys 12 Shawne Merriman, LB Maryland Chargers 13 Jammal Brown, OT Oklahoma Saints 14 Thomas Davis, S Georgia Panthers 15 Derrick Johnson, LB Texas Chiefs 16 Travis Johnson, DT Florida St. Texans 17 David Pollack, DE Georgia Bengals 18 Erasmus James, DE Wisconsin Vikings 19 Alex Barron, OT Florida St. Rams 20 Marcus Spears, DE Louisiana St. Cowboys 21 Mall Jones, QB/WR Arkansas Jaguars 22 Mark Clayton, WR Oklahoma Ravens 23 Fabian Washington, CB Nebraska Raiders 24 Aaron Rodgers, QB California Packers 25 Jason Campbell, QB Auburn Redskins 26 Chris Spencer, C Mississippi Seahawks 27 Roddy White, WR Alabama·Birm. Falcons 28 Luis Castillo, DT Northwestern Chargers 29 Marlin Jackson, CB Michigan Colts 30 Heath Miller, TE Virginia Steelers 31 Mike Patterson, DT usc Eagles 32 Logan Mankins, OG Fresno St. Patriots 



around the dial 
NBA 

Pacers at Celtics, 7 p.m., TNT Rockets at Mavericks, 9:30p.m., TNT 
MLB 

Braves at Mets, 7:10p.m., ESPN White Sox at Athletics, 10:05 p.m., Comcast 
NFL 

Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -After a week of trade rumors and intrigue, tho only drama in this NFL draft was the long wait for Aaron Hodgors. 
With the top players considered relatively nqual, quarterback Alex Smith went first as expected to San Frandsen and tho other dominoes followed more or less the way they were supposed to. 
But Hodgnrs, the Cal quarterback who the 4<Jers had considnrod at No. 1, l'nll most of thn way through the first round until he was taknn 24th overall by Green Bay to the cheers or fans at the draft. He will be gwomed to succeed Brett Favre, who will turn 36 in October. 
"I had already prepared myself for things not going my way," said Hodgers, who had been invitPd to tho draft on the assumption he would be taken m ueh earlier. "Things got a little screwy on draft day. Wtl all know that." 
Thn shortage of drama was in sharp contrast to last season, when San Diogo took 1\li Manning, who had exprnssed his dosiro not to play for thn Chargers. 

They then tradnd him to the Nnw York Giants for Philip Hivers, who tho Giants had taken fourth overall. 
"There's a lot of smoke this year, but very little fire," said Clevoland gen­eral manager Phil Savage, who nntnrtainnd a num­ber of offers bnforn selecting wide receiver Braylon Edwards with tlw third pie.k. 
In fact, the biggost fin~ may have como at tho end of tlw evening at 11 p.m., when I>Pnvor used tlw final pick or tho third round to selnct Maurieo Clarntt, the running back who lnd Ohio State to the 2002 national ehampi­
-
onship thnn lnl't tho Buekeyns. 
lie ehallt1ngnd tho NFI. rule wquiring a player to be out of high school for throo years a yoar ago and was evontually turned down by tlw courts, and was nxpnctnd to go much lowtlr aftnr slow limns in 40-yard dashos. Tho pit:k was 101 st ovnrall. 

Edwards was part of a top ninn that includnd thrno running bar.ks, thrtln eornPrharks and thrnP playnrs from Auburn with quartnrbark .Jason Camplwll. taknn by Washington with tlw 2!ith pick, tlw fourth TigPr takPn. 
IN BRIEF ArmstrOJ!jf finishes fifth in 
Tour de Georgia 
ALPIIAIUiTTA, (;a. -With his l'oeus firmly on tho Tour de France, Lance Armstrong was just another cyclist in the peloton Sunday, helping to eusurn that a teammate won the Tour de Georgia. 
Tom Danielson was sunoundod by his Discovery Channel team as he maintained his 4-second advantage over Levi Leipheimer, content to cruise across tho line behind stage winner Cord Fraser of Canada. 
Armstrong, wearing No. 1 on the back of his jersey, settled for 22nd place on the day and fifth overall. lie was 1 minute, 42 seconds behind Danielson. 
The 27-year-old former mountain biker, who joined tho team this sea­son, grabbed the lead Saturday dur­ing a grueling climb up Brasstown Bald -the highest point in Georgia. Aware that he had no chance of win­ning, Armstrong joined the rost of the team in a supporting role, ensur­ing that tho ynllow-shirted Danielson stayed out or troubln and close nnough to the front to guard his nar­row lead over L1~ip)winwr.Davenport, Williams take 
USA to Fed Cup semifinals 
DELilAY BEACII, Fla. -Lindsay Davenport' and Venus Williams won in singles and the Unitod States claimed the doubles match to sweep Belgium on Sunday and advance to thn semifinals of the Fed Cup. 
Top-ranked Davenport defeated Els Callnns 6-4, 6-0 to put the U.S. toam ahead 3-0 in the best-of-five quartnr­final. 
Williams followed by beating Leslie Butkiewicz, 6-1, 6-4, in the second match on Sunday, and Davenport and partner, Corina Morariu, postnd a 6-1, 6-2 win over Kirsten Flipkens and Eveline Vanhyfte to complete the sweep. 
The Americans advanced to the semifinals July 9-10 at defending champion Russia, a 4-1 winner at Italy. France will face Spain in the 

othnr snmifinal. Daly's -'Qlayoff miscue J!ives 
Singh Houston Open title 
IIUM BI.E, Tnxas -Vijay Singh waitnd pati1mt.ly for a brnak in t.hn final round of tlw Shnll llouston Open . .John Daly finally gavn him a big one on tlw lirst extra holn. 
Taking advantagn of Daly's playoff drive that skipped into the watnr, Singh overcome putting problnms and a long birdie drought to win thn tournament for the second straight ynar and third tinw in four ynars. 
''I'm rnally pleasnd with thn way I hung in there and nevnr gave up," Singh said. "Fortunately for me nobody came out of tlw pack except for John and kind of made a run at it. It was a good way to finish." 
Daly, who birdind t.hn final two holes for a !i-undnr (>7 to match Singh at 13-under 27!i, sent his drive on the first extra hole, tlw par-4 1 Hth, into the water. Then, after a drop, sent his third over the green. 
~-----­
i1 
I
I 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 25, 2005 
======================================================================================================= 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish sweep Rutgers for second straight title 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA Sports Writer 
In his four years at Notre Dame, Brent D'Amico had never experienced a team loss in the Big East Championship. With another Big East title on the line against Rutgers, the senior co­captain made sure his last Big East Championship would end the way it started -with a win. 
D'Amico clinched No. 35 Notre Dame's 4-0 victory over Rutgers (8-9) on Saturday, helping give the Irish their first back-to-back Big East title since the team joined the conference a decade ago. D'Amico posted a 6-1, 6-0 win at No. 2 against Rutgers' Gordi Milchutsky. 
The victory also gave Notre Dame (18-7) an automatic berth in the NCAA Championship. 
"We were ahead in all of the matches against Rutgers, but it was especially rewarding to see Brent clinch it," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "He did so by coming to the net a little bit more and shortening the points." 
After beating fifth-seeded St. John's to reach the Big East final, the Irish came out strong against the Scarlet Knights. Notre Dame won the doubles point and won three quick singles victories to coast to the Big East title. 
Rutgers, a third seed in the tournament, upset the second­seed Boston College en route to the final. The Big East Conference has undergone a reshuffling of teams during the past year. The
-conference lost perennial con-
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

tenders Miami and VIrginia Tech to the Atlantic Coast ConfereJ;Ice and will pick up South Florida, Louisville and Marquette next season. 
The Irish picked up the early 1­0 lead against the Scarlet Knights by posting doubles victories at the No. 2 and No. 3 slots. Sophomores Barry King and Ryan Keckley were off the courts first for the Irish, beating Matthew Fawcett and Jonathan Wanano 8-2 at the No. 2 slot. Sophomore Stephen Bass and freshman Sheeva Parbhu clinched the doubles point for the second day in a row with an 8-2 victory at No. 3. 
"Doubles [play] was our strength," Bayliss said. "The chemistry was good, we were aggressive and we didn't make silly errors. I think that bodes well for the NCAAs." 
The team also did not drop any of the singles matches, losing four games or fewer in each match. King was off the courts first for the Irish with a 6-1, 6-0 victory against Rutgers' Fawcett. Junior Patrick Buchanan and D'Amico quickly followed suit, posting 6-1, 6-1 and 6-1, 6-0 victories, respec­tively, to end the match. 
This year's Big East title was the fifth for the Irish since joining the conference 10 years ago. The team also claimed championships in 1996, 1999, 20002 and 2004. 
Notre Dame now turns its full attention to the NCAA Championship, which takes place May 13-15 at various campus sites. The seedings for the 64­team draw will be announced May 5 on the ESPNEWS network. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 



Tight end, defensive end commit 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
Paddy Mullen might consider playing for the Irish a birthright. 
"My full name is Patrick McKee Mullen," he said. ''I'm a big-time Irish Catholic and I've been a Notre Dame fan growing up." 
Mullen, the 6-foot-5, 265-pound tight end out of DeSmet Jesuit High School in St. Louis, verbally committed to Notre Dame in a Saturday morning meeting with Irish coach Charlie Weis. Defensive end Kallen Wade, from Cincinnati's Withrow High School, also committed to Notre Dame this weekend bringing total verbal commitments for the class of 2010 to five. 
"Ever since I went there for the first time on Feb. 27 ·I just fell in love with the place," Mullen said. "It really has been a dream of mine to play for a school as pres­tigious as Notre Dame and it looks like it's coming true." 
Mullen mainly played defensive end last season due to a broken hand. He tallied 27 tackles includ­ing nine tackles for loss and seven sacks. However, he is expected to play tight end for the Irish. 

''I'm very aggressive," Mullen said. "I run a 4.7 [forty yard dash] so I'm pretty quick off the line. I just love hitting people. It's awe­some, it really is." 
"What he does have is great hands," Mike Frank of Irisheyes.com said. "He can catch anything. He reminds you a lot of [current Notre Dame tight end] Anthony Fasano. He's a guy that plays hard and makes all the catches. I think the sky's the limit for him." 
Wade, on the other hand, is expected to suit up at defensive end at Notre Dame. But his size (6-foot-5, 220 pounds) is a coq­cern at that position. 
"He's probably a little raw at this point," Frank said. "He'll need to add some weight. But he's a real first class athlete, a guy that can really run. He's a Justin Tuck type -a really good athlete that can run." 
One of the main reasons for Mullen choosing Notre Dame over schools such as Nebraska, Iowa, Ohio State and Miami was his relationship with the coaching staff. 
"Weis is a great guy," he said. "I like him a lot." 
Mullen also mentioned how excited he is for the future of Irish football. 
"Notre Dame is going to be the football school again and I just want to go along for the ride," Mullen said. 
Wade could not be reached for comment. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
Attention Students! SUMMER WORK 
• Exc~llent Pay 
• 
Flexible schedules 

• 
Customer sales/service 

• 
No exp. needed-will train 

• 
· Immediate Openings 

• 
All ages 17+ 

• 
Conditions apply 


Apply Now, Start After Finals! 
CALL 273-4878 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXIV 
'V Got a Bad Draw' forfeits semifinal 
We Get Wet knocks offVokes and CoCoa Butter 21-16 in semis 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 

U Got A Bad Draw did not arrive 1at the scheduled time for its sefuifinal matchup. Due to some confusion and miscommu­nication about whether the game was rescheduled, the top-seeded tea~ was forced to forfeit the game. 
According to U Got A Bad Draw captain Chinedum Ndukwe, Ndukwe and team­mates Brady Quinn and Dan Stevenson agreed with Looking for a Sponsor's Rhema McKnight to reschedule the game. The football players did not want to risk possible injury by playing in Saturday's rough weather condi­tions. 
U Got A Bad Draw had trouble communicating with Looking for a Sponsor and the Bookstore Commissioners. Looking for a Sponsor arrived Saturday ready to play, but without McKnight (who also did not play in Sunday's championship game). 
Ndukwe was disappointed in the way the tournament ended for his team, which won the championship last year. 
"I was under the understand­ing that we were going to get the game changed to later that night or the next morning," Ndukwe said. "There's no way I was going to play an outdoor basket­ball game like that. It wouldn't have been worth it. 
)''I'm not trying to blame any­body. It's just an unfortunate sit­uation. I feel like we should have played each other." 
Looking for a Sponsor captain Joe McClyde regretted that the semifinal game could not be played, but said it was the deci­sion of the Bookstore Basketball Commissioners. 
"The Bookstore people did not get contacted, so they put it down as a forfeit since the right measures weren't taken to let the Bookstore know," McClyde said. "The other game was played. I think it was expected that we play too. More or less this falls on the Bookstore. Pretty much we had to operate off of them." 
Head Bookstore Basketball commissioner Luke Maher said the commissioners tried to gath­er all the information from both sides before making a decision. 
"Based on the situation we were presented and the rules that were written in the Bookstore guidelines, we made the decision that we made and awarded the victory to Looking for a Sponsor at the Moment," Maher said. "We did our best to make a fair and impartial deci­sion based on the situation." 
We Get Wet 21, 
CoCoa Butter 16 
In a game played through freezing temperatures and snow, We Get Wet defeated CoCoa Butter Saturday in the first semi­final match up. 
The weather made it almost impossible to shoot from the perimeter. The game was extremely physical and played inside the paint for the most part. 
At halftime, We Get Wet led 11-9. The team pulled away from CoCoa Butter in the second half behind the scoring of Jim Kilroy. Justin Funk made a free throw attempt that ended the 
. game and CoCoa Butter's run through the tournament. Ron Dokes led CoCoa Butter in the game with nine points. The big man was named to the All­Bookstore team for his play in the tournament. 
Elite Eight Results: 
+CoCoa Butter 27, Jack's Shorts 25 
+ 
Looking for a Sponsor at the Moment 21, State Theater 19 

+We Get Wet 21, Platinum FUBU14 

+ 
U Got A Bad Draw 21, Training Day 15 


Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 



Students Fly Cheaper 
summer travel, study abroad & more 
Sample airfares from South Bend:  Sample airfares from Chicago:  
Atlanta Denver New York San Diego  $168 $168 $168 $233  Toronto London Rio de Janeiro Sydney  $170 $535 $672 $1020  


Monday, April 25, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S TRACK 
ND sends 9 to Illinois meet 
1\y JOHN EVERETT Sports Writer 
Nirw nwnrbnrs of thn Irish hravocl l.hn cold on Saturday 
I. o co m JH~ t n i n t h n Co nl. r a I Collc~giato Championships in Champaign, Ill., on tho cam­
pus  of'  tlw  llnivnrsity  of'  
Illinois.  
AI l'irst tho  Irish  wnro  to  

sl'ncl 20 nwn to tho eompnti­tion. but t.lw unsnasonably cold woatlwr oxporinneocl throughout llw Midwost was ono11gh to convirH~n thn trar.k c·oarlws to altnr t.lwir plan. ThP nino nwn whom Notrn l>anw chosn to havn r.ompnto had sonw prl'lty tough condi­tions to dtHtl with, according to polo vaultor l>avn Yikm1. 
"Tiw woathnr was r·cHdly bad , v•~ r y c o I d an d w i n d y, which was why none of tho sprinters wont and vnry l'ow 0 r t lw d i s t a n c n I' u 11 lin r s ' " Yiknn said. 
Of tho nino mon Notrn l>amn chosn to send to thn nwnt, livn worn thrownrs, two jurnpnrs and two distanc:n r Llll!W r s . I~ a e h oI' t h n ni n n pnrl'ornwd with distinction eonsiclnring tlw harshness of tlw circumstances. 
Chris Staron had tho most irnprnssivo pnrl'ormanco of tho day, as tho snnior won tho high jump with a jump of 1.98 mdnrs (six l'nnt, six inches). 
l>avn Viknn turned in a stnl­lar pnrl'ormanen in tho polo vault, rlnaring 4.60 motors (l!i l'not, onn inch) . .lamed Al'ridi ran llw 800 nwtors in 2:01.44. 
All fivn of the Irish throwers wnrn impn~ssivn in the ham­mer· throw. The quintet was 
page 17 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 

Hanks' late goal helps Irish tie Mexican tean1 

led by Chip Hoberts' at 54.6 motnrs. 
Closely following Hoberts worn Ky In Annen at 53. 2(> motors, Garret Koxlien at 
49.94 meters and Kevin Mol'f'it at 44.24 meters. Michael Schubert contributed a throw of 39.18 meters and also put the shot 13.87 meters. The throwers appeared to thrivn on the cold, as the hammer throw marks of Hoberts, Annen, Koxlinn and Schubert were all their best throws of the sea­son. 
Viken surnmnd up thn 
team's reaction to having to eompcte outdoors in the cold. "Considering the conditions, we feel good about our per­formances. With things being the way they were, I don't think anyone could've expeet­ed to do bettor," he said. 
The Irish will have to hope for warmer temperatures next weekend when the team will be sending members to llillsdaln, Mich., for the Gina Hnlays and to Des Moines, Iowa, for the Drake Helays. 
Contact John Everett at jeverett@nd.edu 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Spotts Writer 
The reigning NCAA champi­ons looked dnsorving or thoir title a!'tnr controlling tho paen of tho game throughout most of the eontost. Tho one road­block the team l'aeod was struggling to score. 
In front of a •~rowd of more than 3,000 fans at Alumni Field Friday, thn Irish nendnd to rely upon a last-second goal from freshman Kerri Hanks to cwen tho scor·o at 2­2 against tho Mexican Women's National Tnam. 
lloading into tho match, Notre Damn went in .with a disadvantage against Mexico 

ofT a pcinalty kick during tlw I <Jth minute of play, artnr a 
pnnalty  was  •~allnd  on  
Candace Chapman.  
Thn socond  was  scored  by  

Mnxic.o midfinldc~r Patricia Pnrnz off' an assist by Monira Vergara in tlw closing min­utns of' tho f'irsl hall'. 
"I was a littlo disappoint­ed," Irish coach Bandy Waldrum said. "Wo worn a lit­tin disorganiznd and tho soc.­ond goal was doarly a broak­d 0 w n. cI'·~ d it l 0 I M(1 Xi('. 0 I because thoy took advantagn 
of' i t an d t h a t i s w ha t t.lw y' do." 
Despito the early sot back, Waldrum rnmainnd eonf'idnnt with his linnup changns, espn­
eially with his movemc~nt of' 

aftor losing sen­"/ was a little Chapman. ior defenders disappointed." "Wn lost I'I'ane­Melissa Tan­rndil and lt;unnar­credi and sdottir I to gradua­
Randy Waldrum 
Gundrun Gunn­tion and ldnfensnl arsdottir and Irish coach is one aroa we arn 
playing without junior forward 
Katie Thorlakson, who is cur­rently playing in Europe with 
the Canadian National Team. 
To fill their vacaneies, tho Irish looked to freshmen, including starting forwards Susan Pinnick and Amanda Cinalli, defender Ashley Jones and midl'ieldnr .Janniea Tjeder. 
One other notable differ­ence by the Irish was the move of All-American Candace Chapman from the forward position to defenso. 
Despite the loss of three key starters and moving of Chapman to dnffmsn, the Irish were still able to outshoot Mexico 15-7, including 6-4 shots on goal, proving their ability to maintain control of game. 
llowevnr. it was their oppo­nent that was able to take advantago of thoir key shots and jumped out to a 2-0 lead in the first hall'. 
Tho first came from fornwr No t r e I> a m e A II -A nw r i e a n Moniea Gonzalez who scon~d 
thin this spring," 

Waldrum said. "!Chapman I was an All­American d!d'endnr for us a fnw years back and in this kind of game wn nnndnd lwr nxpmienen back there." 
It was not until the 56th minute in the sneond half where thn Irish finally bc~gan their comeback. .Junior mid­finlder A1mio Seheftor seorod ofT a pnnalty kick to make thn score 2-1. 
-

TIH1 tying goal eame during the f'inal 10 seconds lnrt in the four minutes of stoppago time. Chapman chased down a throw-in from .Jones and sent it to tho lef't side of the fiold for llanks, who lwadnd the ball into thn nnt past Mexieo goalin .Jonnil'er Molina. 
" Ke r r i m i s s n d t hn w h o I!~ snason with tlw Youth World Cup and I think the crowd got a glimpse of' what slw is going to givn us af'ter scoring tlw ganw-wi nnnr." Waldrum said. 
Contact Dan Tapetii!o at jtapctil@nd.cdu 
Students Call Before You Pack!!! Free delivery on boxes and supplies 

We also supplies AI Main ~ntl McKioley S.lf Storag~ 707 E. McKinky Ave Mishawnka. IN 46545 
•

Cheap boxes!!! As low as $1.00 
Tel: 574-256-5339 
Climate control, 24 hout~ at~t'..tt't, video :nrrveiUonce, rtsid"~t ntauag"f) great rates, .. 

page 18 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, April25, 2005 
I • 
I I I 
I 
I 
I I I I I 
I I I I 
I 
I I I I I 

I I ­
I 
I I I I I I I I I 
I 
f 
I 
I 
I 

-

Rector, Pangborn Hall Rector, Pasquerilla West Hall Director, Gender Relations Center Director, NDE Retreats, Campus Ministry 
on receiving the award 
~~Honoring Women ofNotre Dame" 
from The Women in Social Service and Health Club 
All Best Wishes from your friends and colleagues in the Division of Student Mfairs 
Alcohol and Drug Education Office of Residence Life &Housing Campus Ministry Security/Police 
Career Center Student Activities International Student Services &Activities University Health Services Multicultural Student Programs ~ &Services University Counseling Center 

Vice President for Student Mfairs 
Monday, April25, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
WOMEN'S CREW 

Teatn -wins first ever Big East title 
Hy KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
Tho Notrn Damn women's rowing tllam joinnd some nlite Irish company on Sunday when it took homn tlw first 1wer Big l~ast Championship. 
Thn women rowors joined thnw otlwr toams taking home Big Eas t ha r d w a I'll o n t hn weekmul, 1~apturing the loaguo crown along with men's golf, wonHHJ's tennis and men's ten­nis. 
Tlw Irish rallind hack from a disappointing rogatta on Saturday against llarvard and Yaln to dofeat a compntit.ivo field of night Big East teams, including a nationally-ranked Syrarusn crew and a tnJHteious Boston College squad. 
This year is tlw l'irst. time that a Big J·:ast championship has bonn lwld. For tho past four years tlw conftH·nnce held a regatta "dwiiPngo" hlltwnen its merniHlr schools. Tho past rhallnngns wonl informal in comparison to this year's con­fnrnncn-widn bat.tliL 
Complllition kkklld ofT in thn chilly watllrs of Lako <)uinsigarnond in Worcestnr, Mass., with inelonwnt weathnr playing a largo l'aetor. Hough wat.nr and wind slowed down limns across the board for the Irish, llw sncond day in a row that tlw wnallwr playml such a large part in tho action. 
Tlw Irish vietory was pro­pniiPd by first-place finishes from supporting roles through­out llw team. Tho lirst varsity night 1~ould not garnnr a victo­ry for tlw Irish on thn day, leaving t.lw job to t.lw second varsity !light, first. and socond varsity fours, and novieo four. 
Tlw first. varsity night. won its individual lwat at 7:2X.40 over news from Hutgors, West Virginia and Villanova. l>nfinitivn tinws rngarding tho final rarn could not be dPt.or-

MISHAWAKA. IN. 
258.9999 
327 Union Street, Mishawaka 
N• 

mined because the race was 
delayed by the mugh weather 
conditions. Tho Irish finished 
in second in the championship 
heat with Boston College 
Syracusn and Hutgnrs. 
Irish coach Martin Stone 
could not be roached for com­
ment on any of this weekend's 
races due to the weather 
dolays and travel time from 
Nnw England. 
Thn f'irst varsity four paced 
thnmsnlvns io a 9:48.45 finish, 
nnarly 12 snconds ahead of 
runner-up Boston College. This 
key rngatta victory was q uiekly 
f'ollownd up by anotlwr first­
place finish by the second var­
sity four, defeating Syracuse by 
a margin nearly idnntical to 
thnir first varsity four sisters. 
Also unavailable were the 
times for the Irish second var­
sity eight victory. Thn Irish 
womnn joined both varsity 
fours in defeating the rest of 
tlw field, crnating tlw founda­
tion from which the Big East 
title was built. 
Hounding out the l'ield of' four victories on the day was the novice four crow, demol­ishing (;eorgetown by more than 30 seconds. The novice eight propnlled itself to a sec­ond place l'inish 15 seconds behind the Scarlet Knights of Hutgers. 
It turned out four wins in six 
races was all the Irish neednd 
to securn tho championship, 
tho second Big East win in a 
row af'tor previously finishing 
in second for three straight ·years. 
Hough eondilions were tho least of the Irish women's crew worries in a regatta with llarvard and Yale on Saturday. 
Tho Irish womnn managed to secure two victories out of' the f'ivn races held, but tho kny f'irst varsity night race yielded a last place f'inish 15 seconds behind the two Ivy League schools. llarvard and Yale fin­ished tlw race in a deadlock. 
even a freeze frame analysis of the finish linn could not deter­mine a winner. 
"We didn't get out very well this race and that was disap­pointing," Stone told und.com. ''I'm not sure that we are 15 seconds slower than these two boats, but they clearly raced bettor than we did." 
The second varsity eight per­formed mueh better than its accomplice, cruising into sec­ond place behind, Yale by six seconds, but beating llarvard by nearly the same amount. "Our second varsity eight boat rowed a great race today," Stone said. "It was our best second varsity eight race this season. Yale got out on us early. but we were right there with them at the end to make it a very competitive race." 
The first varsity four shell rowed ahead of Harvard, but fell to Yale in its racn on tho day. 
The two victors for the Irish were the first novice night and second varsity four/novice four. The first novice eight· squeaked out a two sncond vic­tory over both competitors amidst the rough whitecaps of tho Charles Hiver. 
The Irish f'inished in first and second place in the mixod fours race. Tho second varsity four took f'irst, while the novice four followed closely behind in second. 
"Both of our boats got off well in this'race and wejusi took control from the start," Stone said. 
Tho Irish next go into action at tho South/Central Hegionals in Tennessee several weeks from now. 
The f'irst varsity eight will look to secure a first place fin­ish at the regatta in order to garner a second-straight NCAA Championship bid. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
Graduation Weekend: Your reservation is waiting. 
Start your graduation celebrations someplace where you do not need to hove your hand stomped to get bock into the party. Your parent's will thank you! 
Now taking reservations for Graduation Weekend ~inners: Thursday, Friday and Saturday from 5pm to Midnight. 
www.UnionStationMishawaka.com 
1357 Ironwood Drive, South Bend . IN 
ND SOFTBALL 

Postponed doubleheader will be made up today 
Irish sweep St. John's Friday; team scores 8 runs in both contests 
By RYAN DUFFY 
Sports Wrirer 
It took an April snowstorm to finally mol down the Irish. 
Having won 29 of its last 31 games, Notrn Dame was lim~nd to put its winning ways on hold when inclement wnathor eausnd Sunday af'Lornoon's doublnhead­er against Seton I tall to bo post­ponnd until today. Tlw Irish will now have tho chance to provn themselves against Seton I tall, who swnpi tho Irish in all four matehups last year, making them tho only team in Big East history to swenp Notrn Dame lbr the entim season. 
"Seton Hall is a very good team, but we beat ourselves in some of those games last year," Notre Damn coach Deanna Gumpl' said. "We're capable of' beating them. I think this ynar's !Irish I team is better than last year's." 
Although the Irish have the best winning percentagP of' any team in the Big East, Seton I tall sits in first pla1:e beeausn the Pirates have playod morn games. A doubleheadnr swePp would allow Notre Dame to claim the top spot in tho eonlilr­once. 
"This is one of' those gamos where I shouldn't havn to firo the girls up for," Gurnpl' said. "We know that first place is on the linn." 
i\lthough Solon I tall is one of' the strongest teams in the Big East, Notre Dame knows what noeds to be done for them to take down the Pirates. 
"Wn have to hit thnir pitching, and we havn to keep thnir INo.I 1 through !No.I 4 hittnrs oil' tho bas1~s." Gumpf' said. "All thml\ parts of' our game havn to lw good: wn havn to have good pill:hing, wn havn to hit thoir pitching, and wo have to play strong dol'enso." 

The Irish will roly on tlwir strong pitching in today's matchup. lnd by senior Stoflimy Stnngloin and junior llnathnr Booth, who havo bnon practical­ly unhittabln latnly. 
"Stnnglnin has madwd a rww lnvol; shn's pitching tho bost in hnr wholn earner at Nolrn Damn," Gumpf said. "Booth hm; turnml a big cornnr, and slw's right whnrn shn wanL'> to bn as a consistnnt. dominating pitdwr. If' thny can just maintain what thny'vn bmm doing, and continuP to havn grnat gamns, wn'II lw linn." 
Whiln tho pitching duo can knep the loam in tlw ganw, t.hn Irish will nond a stmng of1imsiw attack to bnat a loam of Solon Hall's ealibnr. Aftor a strntch wlwrn tlw oiTnnsn did just enough to win gamns, the bats explodnd on Friday, scoring night nms in both ganws of thnir doublohnador against St. John's. 
"Wo havo bnnn gntt.ing by, hut wo brokn out Friday night," Cumpf said. "Wn just crushml tlw ball. It's groat going into this wenknnd, and wn just nnnd t.o keop running with it." 
No mattnr who stops up to keep thn loam in tho ganw, Notre Damn will look to win by playing tho samn quality sollball thny'vo playnd all ynar. 
"Solon llall is obviously a big rival, but wn have to approach this like any ot.lwr gamn: wn havn to takn 1~am of' naeh pitch, each hattnr and nach inning," Gumpf' said. "Wn mn still bn hPt.­tnr, and that's what wn fileus on -how to gnt a littln bnttor nvnry timn wn play." 
Contact Ryan DuflY at rduflY 1 @nd.cdu 

The UPS Store 
"May Move Out '05" NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 10am-5pm 
FLANNER CIRCLE Monday, May 2 -Saturday, May 7 Thursday~ May 12-Saturday, May 14 Monday, May 16 
LYONS BASKETBALL COURTS Wednesday, May 4-Saturday, May 7 
WELSH FAMILY HALL Monday, May 2 -Saturday, May 7 Thursday, May 12-Saturday, May 14 Monday, May 16 
LOBBY OF LE MANS HALL Wednesday, May 4-Friday, May 6 
$1.00 off Shipping PER BOX FREE PICK UP Pickup is free, but no discounts will be accepted with pickup. PERMANENT LOCATION: Martin's Plaza-S.R. 23 Hours: M-F 9am -?pm Sat: lOam -6pm 277-6245 
page 20 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, April 25, 2005 
I 
~ 
I 
I • I 
~ 
I 
[ 
I 
r 
~ 
I 
~ 
! ~ 
I I 
' 
t I 
t 
I 
I 
I I I 
I I I 
IMPORTANT NOTICE 

University Health Center Temporary Closure and Move 
The University Health Center will be closed to all services trom 4p.m. on Friday, May 20th, 2005 until 8a.m. on Tuesday, June 7th, 2005. The Health Center will be actively relocating to the old Campus Security Building during this time, so that the planned year long renovation ofour present location may commence. 
The "old" Campus Security building is located across the street from Rockne Memorial and the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Health Services wi11 be located on the first floor beginning June ih until renovation is complete. The building will be cal1ed the Student Health Center and OIT Annex. 
Important Dates Summer 2005 University Health Center Schedule 
Friday, May 20th 4p.m.-Tuesday, June 7th 8a.m.-University Health Center CLOSED 
New Location: Student Health Center/OlT Annex (Old Security Building across from Rockne) 
tl th ­
Tuesday, June 7 ', 2005-Sunday, August 14 , 2005 
Monday -Friday 
Clinic Hours: 8a.m.-4p.m. 
Physician Hours: 9a.m. -12 noon and 1p.m. -4p.m. 
**Pharmacy Hours: 12 noon-4p.m. through Friday, July 29th 8a.m. -4p.m. July 29th through Friday, August 19th 
University Health Center is closed on weekends and July 4th. 
In a non emergency situation, services may be provided by a local physician, Med Point or at the emergency rooms of St. Joseph Regional Medical Center or Memorial Hospital depending on the student's or visitor's insurance carrier. 
For all medical emergencies, please dial 911. 
Employees injured on the job during the time of the temporary University Health Services closure will follow the guidance of their supervisor and the guidelines that will be provided by the Office of Risk Management. 
Great Care... No Matter Where! 
~University Health Services www.nd.edu/"'uhs 

Monday, April 25, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 


Cha01ps 
continued from page 24 
Natun~ had otlwr ideas liw thn goll'nrs. 
Aft.«~r a cold front movnd through Friday night, tho Big J·:ast dnlaynd tho morning ton t.itnos on Saturday until I 0 a.m. and announcPd that only one round would bn playnd on tlw first day. 
That' round endml up lwing tlw only otw playml, as tlw 54­holn lournamnnt lastnd just 1S. 
BPI'oro tho tournamont hogan. Irish roarh Jim Kubinski prn­parPd his tnam li1r surh a possi­bility, saying lw wantod his ll'am to hn alwad wiro-to-win~ in tiH• nvl'nt that l.lw tourna­nwnt was shortntwd. 
"If" 1h«'y shortnn tho nvent from 54 hoh~s -il' you'rp trail­ing at that point, you'rn out or ltwk." lw said. 
I lis goii'Prs listl'n('(lto him and look advantagn or t.lw shortnnnd lotiJ'nanHHJI, though it took a strong hark nitw by tlw nnlin~ loam. At tfw turn. Cnorgntown h~d Uw Irish by thrno, and that IPad grow to six within thmn holos. 
Hut thPn tlw Irish "rpafly grindPd it out." !shan said. 
01' Uw fin1r goll'nrs' seoms that W«'nt toward tlw loam total. IIH•y had just thnw bognys in tlw final six lwlns, playing No. 12 through No. IS in a stnllar onP-OV«'r par. 
"Thl' last six holos of tho tour­nanwnl wl'rn inrr«'dihly dillicult with an inrmasing wind and thP. tnmtwraturn dropping," Baldwin said. 
"But thosn kinds of conditions ... favor our team. lnstnad of looking at it as a throat and a dangnr, wn sm~ it as a chalhmgn. Wn'n~ just a group of guys who ... ran play with our backs up against thn ropns." 
Although tho Irish madn just four birdins in tho round, they 




,.urcle Creek Aparcmencs 
MAKE YOUR FINAL DECISION AN EASY ONE 

• 
W~lk to campus 

• 
Hook-up with friends, just blocks from your favorite night spots 

• 
Bronze yourself at our pool 

• 
Keep your car clean in 


#1 
our carports 
.866.395.4201 
www.aimco.com 171 0 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 
Bring this coupon in to receive 
1 MONTH FREE* 
* Restrictions Apply Expires 4/30/05 


ND HOT SPOT 
made night double-bogeys eom­paro·d to (;oorgntown's 12. A number that low was an· impressive limi amidst tho snow and 30-miln-pPr-hour winds. 
"Wn wnrnn't so much going at pins as wn worn going at grmms," said lsban, who hit just thrno of IS groons in rogulation. 
Baldwin had a little morn suc­cess than lsban, as he was just on1~ stroke behind loader and playing partner Matt Bausa of {;norgntown when he and Bausa rnadwd the I Sth. 
It was l.lwre two years ago that Baldwin led ofT with his driver in tho final round of tho Big East Championship as the Irish wnrn tind with Virginia Tech for tho load. 
That aggrnssivn play lml to a hooknd shot that landed in tho crook that runs along the ln/'t sidn of' the fairway. Baldwin madn a costly mistakn, and Nol.t·n Damn lost to tho llokins by just two. 
This ti nw. he playnd it smartPr. 
Up to that point, Baldwin had playnd a solid round in the indnnwnt wnathcr, tallying six bogeys, II pars and no birdios. 
lin would not romain birdie­loss much longm·, making a tlm~e on tlw 434-yard, par-filltr 1 Sth. 
When Bausa bognynd, Baldwin took tho load f(Jr good. 
"Against Virginia Tech. I hit it dead loft into tho water," hn said. "And a mupln years lator, I made tho smart play and hit a three wood and made the birdie." 
That birdie eappml a gutsy oven-par 35 on tho back ninP. and won him mndalist honors with his five-over 75. 
"The back nine of tho Big East !Championship! this ynar defi­nitnly goes down as onP. ol' my best pmformances," hn said. 
.lust two wnoks ago, Baldwin snt thn course record with a seven-under 63. Saturday, he won tho eonferencP. champi­onship with a score 12 strokes higher, grinding all the while. 
While the numbers might say otherwise, Baldwin said, "I would rank this -especially the back ninP. -right up thnrn lwith thn 631." 
llis pnrformaneP. Saturday earned him a spqt on the all­eonferonee team. For tho Irish, junior 1\rie Deutsch and lsban also received that honor. l>eu tsch tied l'or third with a seven-over 77, and lsban tied li1r sevnnth with a 79. 
For lsban, the day was "pretty uniquo." 
"It was dolinitnly the toughest conditions I've played in," hn said. "Tho wind was honnstly 25, 35 maybe 45 milp,s an hour at times. Whnn you add in snow falling as litlln ice pellets flying in your l'acn -obviously it's pretty tough." 
In thn end, it wasn't too tough for the Irish, who won by livn. 
Baldwin attributes much ol' thP. success this WP.P.kend to tho relationship between tho team mombnrs. 
"We'rn all so dosn and it intro­duces the mal coneept of toarn golf," hn said. "You're carrying the hop1~s and aspirations of thn team itsnlf on your back, and that makes you play bettor." 
It did this wonkend. 
Tlw win guarantees Notre Dame a spot in one of thron NCAA Hogionals. With the Notrn Damn hosting one of the rngion­als, tho Irish will return to action at tho Warren for tho Central Hogional May 19-21. 
First-yoar head coach Jim Kubinski will have to continue to prepare tho tnam lilr that test. 
The Irish placed 12th in tim Central Hngionallast yp,ar, miss­ing the cut for the National Championship. 
"We're looking forward to playing on our home course," Kubinski said, "and taking that next step to get to the national tournament this year." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
aneo in tho tournament.. "Both tnams played rnally
Hoops 

hard," McClydo said. "We playod well, but both toams worn really
continued from page 24 

good." 
Looking for a Sponsor at tlw for a Sponsor at the Moment to Momnnt imprnssnd We (;ot WPt piek up two substitute players. with their tough. physical play. 
Tlw contest was extrnmnly Kilroy ti~lt Looking lilr a Sponsor close. with tho two tnams trading at tho Monwnl. was otw of the basknts for mueh of thP. first half. bolter teams hn had soon in his We Get Wet took an 11-'J load finn· years of Bookston~. into tho intormission. "Tiwy play1~d grPat." Kilroy 
In the second half. though. Wo said; ".It wasn·.~ going to lw easy, Get Wet wont on a scoring run. that s lor sure. Kilroy and Funk S!~ttlod into an Kilroy and Funk worn honorPd 
offensive groove and knocked aller tho ganw fi1r Uwir p«~rlimn­down several consecutive shots. ances throughout tho tourna­The team also played oxcnllnnl. ment. Funk. who led all scorers d «ffnnsn, spear­in tlw champi­headed by tho shot "This is something onship ganw with blocking of Jordan I I points. was rho­
we've been doing for 
Cornntto and tlw snn as tournanwnt 
prp,ssuro Funk four years. It really Most Valuabln applied on Bon means a lot. " l'laynr. Kilroy, who Nickol. contributed sevnn · Wlwn Funk r.on­points Sunday, was
Jim Kilroy
nnctnd on a nanwd Mr. 
'We Get Wet'
jumpP.r from 15 BookstorP. a tit!P 
feet, Wn Cot Wot ended a S-5 run to stretch tlw seore to 19-13. 
Looking for a Sponsor al. tho Moment rosponded, howovor. LP.d by the seoring of Jon Niekol, the team wont on a 4-1 run to bring the seore to 20-17. But. with a dmncn to cut tho dnlkit to two points, Niekol missnd a jumpnr. 
Jordan Cornel.tn grabbP.d thn rebound and l'ired a pass to Kilroy, who drove the length of the court and hit the winning layup. 
Looking for a Sponsor at the Moment captain Joe McClydo was disappointed with the loss, but proud or his team's perlilrlll-
NFL DRAFT 

Irish see tvvo picked in tvvo-day selection 
Giants draft Tuck in third round; Rams take Collins in fifth 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame senior defensive end Justin Tuek and senior tight end Jerome Collins werp, selected in the 2005 NFL draft this weekend at the Jacob Javits Center in New York City. 
Tuck (6-foot-5, 260 pounds) was selected by the New York Giants with the No. 10 pick of the third round, the No. 74 pick overall, and Collins was taken by the St. Louis Rams with the No. 8 pick of the fifth round, the No. 144 pick over­all. 
With rounds one through three taking place on Saturday, and rounds four through seven taking place on Sunday, Tuck was the only Irish player to bn selected on the first day. 
Tuck was a standout defen­sive end for tlw Irish over thn last thrP-e seasons. lie recorded a team record 24.5 sacks, including a team record 13.5 in thB 2003 season. Tuek also had 19 tackles for a loss in his junior season. 
Tho Irish defensive lnadnr only recorded six sacks in tlw 2004 sP.ason. but was still pro­duetive on tlw field while fac­ing ondl{)SS double teams by Notre Damn opponents. lie had 4 7 tackles, and 14 for a loss. 
Tuck deddnd not to usn his 

giwn to t.lw player who most embodins tlw philoso­phy of the tournanwnt. Tlw two players fnlt honon~d and hum­bind to rncnivn the awards. 
"It's spnrial." Kilroy said. "This is sonwthing wo've !wen doing filr four years. It n~ally moans a lot." 
The two seniors worn «wen morP satisfied to win tlw tourna­nwnt after coming close for Uw past thr;nn years. 
"11. fnnls good to finally win it all." Funk said. "If it was going to happen onP year. I'm glad it was this year." 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 
final year of eligibility on Jan. 14, choosing instead to enter tho NFL draft. liP. will graduate in May with a dP.grne in man­agement. 
Tuek should be able to fill in right away with tho Giants, offering tho toam a third defensive end that can be usnd o/Tectively in pass rushing situ­ations. 
The Giants already have perennial pro-bowler Michael Strahan and 2002 second­round pick Osi Umenyiora, who played in all 16 games for the Giants in 2004, as their starting defHnsivn ends for the 2005 season. 
But with Strahan getting older, Tuck will have tho opportunity to show his abili­ties in tho future. 
Collins ((J-foot-4, 25S pounds) was a fornwr linP.backer and wide receiver that moved to tight end at the start of spring practice in 2004. 
lie only eaugh t six passns for 67 yards in his senior season, but part of Collins' upsidP is that ho has boon moved around thn field a lot and has yet to solidify himself at 0111~ position. 
That typo of prospect was appoaling enough to tho Hams, who took Collins in tlw f'if'th round wlwn lw was prndirtnd by CNNSI.n1111 to go a round 
latl~r. 
Collins, like Turk. will gradu­ate in May with a degree in soeiology and compui.«H' appli­cations. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 25, 2005 

Blue 
continued from page 24 
lie was joined on the sidelines by Tim Brown, Joe Montana. Joe Theismann and Chris Zorieh. 
The Blue squad consisted of both the first team offense and defense while the Gold team fea­tured the second unit'>. 
"I think it was very good that we got a chance to play with the first team against the second team because we got a chance to stay as a unit," Blue running back Darius Walker said. "We're all kind of gelling and clicking and I think that's going to help us down the line." 
The teams' talent disparity was apparent as the Blue built a 28-0 lead before Gold quarterback Marty Mooney threw a pass to himself for his side's only score. Mooney's pass was deflected at the line of scrimmage but he caught the batted ball and ran 11 yards for the touchdown. 
Walker tallied 83 yards on 10 carries to lead all rushers. 
"I think I ran very well today," Walker said. "I was seeing the holes." 
Walker's Gold counterpart, Travis Thomas, ran nine times for a total of six yards against a dominant Blue defensive line that limited the Gold to one first down and 15 yards of total offense. 
Hashon Powers-Neal lined up at both fullback and running back while tallying 51 yards on seven carries along with a pair of touchdowns. 
"It was a little bit of a mis­match personnel-wise," Weis said. "But I'm encouraged that some guys are starting to play 

Repeat 
continued from page 24 
championship game. . For both teams, the game was a memorable experience. 
"It was fun to play," Anthony Travel's Sara Liebscher said. "I have a lot of respect for Teresa. I think she was really the quiet hero of the [varsity! team this year and did a lot of things that maybe didn't make the paper or make her the Jackie [Batteast] or the Megan [Dully I but she was a big contributor, so it was a real honor to play against her in Bookstore. She's a classy com­petitor." 
Anthony Travel featured Bodensteiner, Christie Yarnell, Maureen Bush, Saint Mary's head basketball coach Suzanne Bellina and Liebscher, a former Notre Dame varsity player. Bush, a member of the Belles' varsity tmun, is the only new addition to last year's championship squad. 
For this team, Bookstore Basketball has many memories. 
"Jill and I played together as seniors in college," Leibscher said. "Fourteen years later, play­ing again, that's kind of special." 
The evenly-matched teams provided a hard-fought contest to fans who braved the cold and winds to cheer for their teams. 
or particular note were those fans who braved the tundra-like Final Four conditions, with nearly horizontal winds and light snow. 
"Our fans, definitely," Nokes said when asked about the best part of her Bookstore experi­ence. "That was a big highlight, everyone coming out and staying through a really long game." 
Gilloon agreed. 
"We had like 20 fans out here in 20-degree weather, so it was awesome," she said. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
themselves into the mix and starting to establish some depth [on the defensive line]." 
Blue defensive tackle Trevor Laws earned defensive MVP hon­ors as he recorded one sack and three tackles for loss. 
Wide receiver Rhema McKnight caught Quinn's other scoring pass, hauling in a 12­yard touchdown with 6:40 left in the first half. 
Blue tight end John Carlson made two catches, one for 39 yards, and wide receiver team­mate Jeff Samardzija had one catch for 37 yards. 
David Wolke started at quarter­back for the Gold team, complet­ing two of 11 passes and getting sacked five times. Quinn is the starter at quarterback but no backup has been named. 
"I think at all the positions we have a pretty good idea who '1' and '1a' are," Weis said. "We have a pretty good idea who we'd put ifwe were going to line up 11 on 11. Of the guys in that 11, there's always a couple people that are right on the cusp of join-. ing that group. So I think that we probably know our first 15 guys on offense and our first 15 guys on defense." ·· 
Notes 
+ 
Blue tight end John Carlson was injured with 14:05 left in the fourth quarter. lie walked to the locker room minutes later with assistance from trainers. 

+ 
Weis told the team before the game he was going to have the officials call an excessive celebra­tion penalty after every Blue touchdown. Consequently the squad displayed several creative celebrations. After Powers-Neal's second touchdown in the fourth quarter, the fullback/running back rolled the football at his team­mates -acting as human bowl­ing pins -who then fell down as ifthey had been bowled over. 

+ 
Special teams play was stunt­ed Saturday as Weis didn't allow returners to be hit. Nevertheless, McKnight and Blue safety Tom Zbikowski fielded kicks. Gold 



punter Geoff Price averaged 31 only field goal attempt, a 33-yard yards on five punts. while the try at the end of the first half. Blue's D.J. Fitzpatrick averaged 
37.5 yards on two punts. Contact Mike Gilloon at Fitzpatrick missed the game's mgilloon@nd.edu 


I WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK tr 
SOUTH BEND 54570 N. IRONWOOD DR. 57 4.277.8500 "YOUR MONI WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOliN'S!" © 

Monday, April 25, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 
We were tipped 
Dogbert?
Mr. Dilbert, you're 

off regarding Who would do
going to have to come 
Sorry. It had 
to be done. 
Face it. 
You suck. 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 


CROISSANTWORLD 
+ht-ne.w S""'ir+. 

h """eo"', \f'-you \1 ke, '+co\::. 4·h( for of-f
-If you co u\d +1"t'l +\-\e.. bo"\tle. a"d
o. vvo.y to bottle s'v\oo\:::. H--o.rou"d
+he N o+re. b o""e 
and 5o+ i+ e ve..ry­
.Sj:>il'i~, you could vvhe.re"
li13"'+-1.q:> the. universe_" 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 It's good only for 65 Sailor's "Halt!" its waste value
1 Baldwin of the 66 "The Thin Man" silver screen 33 T-bone or wife porterhouse 
67 European car arthritis 37 Not so much 
5 Recur, as 
68 Nigeria's largest 10 Father of Seth 39 Noted 
city Tombstone 69 Son of Seth14 Actress Hatcher 
family, once 15 Computer item 
41 Ancient Roman

with a tracking DOWN 
censorball 1 " additional

42 Like beer at a 

cost!" picked up bar 2 Pope after 16 Aura being 
44 River's mouth 

Benedict IV
17 Possibly 46 Sign outside a
prompting a 3 Folies Bergere reply like 25-, designer
hit show 47-or 62-Across 
47 "What?!" 

4 Kind of acid 20 Supersede 
50 Railroad stop: 5 Atmosphere, as 21 Immature Abbr. in a restaurant insects 53 End of a proof 6 For both sexes 22 Rink surface 54 Chem. thread 7 Toothpaste holder
23 Rep.'s opponent 55 Meat-packing pioneer a "It's no !"
24 Singer Sumac 57 Chosen one 9 Shotgun shot
25 "What?!" 
10 State
62 "What?!"

31 Companion of 
unequivocally
Tarzan 64 Slugger Sammy 
11 Split (up) 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 At right angles to a ship 13 Jason's ally and lover, in myth 18 Killer whales 19 Poetic feet 23 Horse with a spotted coat 25 Sign of a saint 26 Unlock 27 Toward sunset 28 Swapped 29 Sheik's bevy 30 And others: Abbr. 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
"An.d , o.f' c o u r s e , +his Sf'iri-+ s+u-f.(' wou\d 'n.C4." ~ -+ 0 'o t? 0. \l \'..~\--.+ '( o."d wh~•"'o+. 0 ko.'f, \.+ W ou.~d ho."~ ~ o lo'!. reo. \\y li~h+y. 'jou. Kf\ow 
wh~4-, 1"'\l".\Je.rV'Y\11\.d. 
WILLSHORTZ 


34 Facility  45 "Li'l _" (AI  57 For men only  
35 Gillette brand  Capp strip) 48 Springlike  58 Studebaker's fill-up, maybe  
36 Wacko  49 "Phedra"  59 Daffy Duck or  
38 Problem with an  playwright  Porky Pig  
old sofa  50 Final approval  60 Continental  
40 Hollywood  51 Custer cluster  currency  
hopefuls  52 Entertain  61 Those: Sp.  
43 Resentment  56 Kind of history  63 Eggs  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name _______________________ Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip_______ 
HENRI ARNOLD


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ARBSS 
1 

rJ 
C2005 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
THILE 
j

I I r () 
DEELEN 
[IJ
www.jumble.com 
STIGAR j 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as


rJ r [J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 

rI I I I JrI I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturday' Jumbles: FENCE MILKY PONCHO IMBIBE s Answer: Where she ended up when the cucumber crop was harvested-IN A "PICKLE" 
EUGENIA LAST 




HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITII<:S BORN ON TIUS DAY: Kelly Clarkson. 23; Jean-Paul Gaultier. 53; Barbra Streisand, 63; Shirley MacLaine, 71 
Happy Birthday: If you tmly believe in yourself and your ideas, take the lirst step to making them happen. A chance to do something big is present, so think about what's really important to you. Make a concerted effort to change that par1 of your life. It could he the start of a whole new personal and professional life. Your numbers arc 6, 18, 23, 29, 33, 37 
ARIES (March 21-Apri! 19): A sudden change in your financial situation is apparent. An older relative may pose a problem for you. Do the best you can to help, but don'llcl anyone make you feel guilty for something you have no control over.*** TAlJRUS (April 20-May 20): Today is all about love, romance and spending time with someone you really adore. You can rely on friends, relatives or even neighbors to help you oul. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can gel a lot done today. Reconsider your lifestyle and make changes to help you look and feel your hesl. You will he ton\, hetween making a change and keeping things exactly the same. *** CANCER (June 21-.July 22): It's time to take a chance and hook up with some different people or take a short trip. Visit someone or allcnd something that will gel you excited and optimistic about making a change. ***** LEO (July 23·Aug. 22): You will have to try exceptionally hard if you want to avoid problems with a loved one or friend. Walch what you say and how you acl. Someone may have a change of heart. Prepare to defend yourself. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23·Sept. 22): This can tum out to he a very exciting day for relationships and partnerships. Open your heart and your mind to the ideas that others have to offer. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your mind will be on gelling ahead. A change of direction or taking a unique approach to what you would normally do while at work will he what leads you in a new direction. Discipline will he the key to your success. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23·Nov. 21): Update your looks or take a fresh new look at something you are trying to create. Walking away from something you believe in will not help matters. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A sudden change of luck is heading your way. Do something to fix up your residence or make it more comfortable. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.lan. 19): Friendship will be important today. A trip that takes you back to your roots will be eye-opening. You shouldn't have to spend too much money on entertainment.**** AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20·Feb. 18): Keep your thoughts to yourself, especially about your home and personal life. The fewer decisions you have to make, the bcuer. A creative idea may he your answer to financial freedom.** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Children and elders may play a role in your life today. You will be a little unpredictable, but that will only draw more interest in you. This is the perfect day to spend time with someone you love or want to gel to know better. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You arc sensitive, careful and very intuitive. You have charm and integrity and can always come up with a unique solution. You are gullible and will always give others the benefit of the doubt. You must protect your heart from those who are untmstworthy. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvicc.com for fun, cugcnialast.com for confidential consultations 
THE OBSERVER 







PORTS
Monday, April 25, 2005 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 
Former greats return, watch Irish perform in Blue-Gold Game 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
Irish quarterback Brady Quinn took the snap, rolled to his left and, in mid-stride, hit tight end Anthony Fasano in the back of the end zone for a touchdown. This was a fit­ting beginning See Also to a near-per­
"Irish see two

fect day for Quinn and the picked in two-Blue team dur­day selection" ing their 28-6 
page 21

victory over the Gold in the 76th Annual Blue-Gold Game Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Quinn was named offensive game MVP for the second consec­utive year after completing 8-12 passes for 120 yards and two touchdowns, the first being the 19-yard strike to Fasano with 3:38left in the first quarter. 
"I thought it was beautiful out there today," head coach Charlie Weis said about both the game and the chilly weather Saturday. 
see BLUE/page 22 

Past and present 
Above, Darius Walker makes a cut on Freddie Parish. At right, Brady Quinn rolls out before throwing a touchdown pass to Anthony Fasano. 
• 
PHOTOS BY BRAD CARMEAN AND DUSTIN MENNELLA 
MEN'S GOLF 

Irish take hon1e Big East cro-wn 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Wrirer 
A 31-over 311 doesn't usually equate to a good round for a team. Nor does a 7 -over 77 usu­ally make a good round for an individual. 
Then again, it doesn't usually snow at the end of April. 
This weekend, the Warren Golf Course saw the exception to all three rules, as Notre Dame won the snow-shortened Big East Men's Golf Championship by five strokes over Georgetown, and junior Mark Baldwin took home medalist honors. 
"This weekend wasn't what we wanted it to be," said sophomore Cole Isban, who earned all-con­ference honors for the second straight year. 
"We're taking it in stride and feel fortunate that we came out with the victory." 
The tournament was sched­uled to begin at 8 a.m. Saturday morning and see three rounds over two days, but Mother 
see CHAMPS/page 21 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXIV 
Won1en see a rare repeat; n1en crown nevv chan1ps 
Justin Funk and Jim Kilroy lead 'We Get Wet' to 2005 title 
By KEVIN BRENNAN Sports Wri rer 
Justin Funk and Jim Kilroy saved their best Bookstore Basketball performances for last. 
The two seniors, who have both played deep into the tourna­ment for the last four years, See Also led We Get Wet 
"U Got a Bad 

to a 21-17 victo­
Draw forfeits

ry over Looking for a Sponsor at semifinal" the Moment in 
page 16

Sunday's cham­pionship game. 
Looking for a Sponsor at the Moment played the game with­out two of its top players. Jerome Collins was drafted by the St. Louis Rams earlier in the day, and his team thought it best that he not play and risk injury. Hhema McKnight was also unable to play, forcing Looking 
see HOOPS/page 21 


For second straight year, Anthony Travel wins championship 
By KATE GALES Associare Sports Editor 

Twice is nice for Anthony Travel. 
The team walked away with its second title in two years on Sunday, defeating Granny Style 21-19. 
"We had some rough games along the way," Anthony Travel's Jill Bodensteiner said. 
"Yesterday was really physical and a really tough game and the weather was awful, and then today was just a highlight because that team was so fun to play against." 
The game was close through­out, but Anthony Travel went on a 5-1 run to take a two-point lead at 1 'J-17. 
Although Granny Style would make the score 20-19, Bodenstein hit a shot from deep in the corner to seal the victory for Anthony Travel. 
"It was a lot of fun, and over­all it was just a good time," Granny Style's Jenny Nokes said. 
Nokes, a standout receiver on the Cavanaugh interhall squad, teamed with fellow receiver Heidi Hoffman, student body vice-president Lizzi Shappell, women's varsity center Teresa Borton and RecSports Undergraduate Female Athlete of the Year candidate Sara Gilloon, who was named Ms. Bookstore 2005. 
Gilloon and Nokes had played together for four years and later added HolTman, a sophomore. Shappell provided more height inside, and Borton had been an anticipated team member since freshman year. 
"Jenny roomed with Teresa freshman year and we've had her signed on our team since freshman year Lforl when she's finished with her varsity eli~-,>ibil­ity," Gilloon said. 
Despite their height, Anthony Travel's 2-3 zone neutralized the advantage for Granny Style, who defeated the Ball-less Bailers in the snow to reaeh the 
see REPEAT/page 22 

WOMEfii'S CREW 
ND SOFTBAll 
MEfii!S TRACK

NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
FOOTBAll RECRUITING 
MEN'S TENNIS 
LLI 


Co)


1-z Irish will make up 
Notre Dame wins the 
Freshman Kerri Hanks 
Due to inclement 

Tight end Paddy 
Irish win second 

doubleheader with 
Big East's first~ever con-
scores with 10 seconds 
weather, Notre Dame 

Mullen and defensive 
straight Big East Title,
:3 
Seton Hall today. 

ference championship. 
left to help the Irish tie 
sends just nine men to 

end Kallen Wade commit 
defeating Rutgers 4-0.
~ 

Mexico, 2-2. 
Central Collegiate 

to Class of 2006.
cr: 
Championships.
=: 

page 19 
page 19 
page 17 
page 17 

page 16 
page 16 






