
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Notre Datne -will honor papal candidate -with degree 
Cardinal Arinze plans to attend graduation 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
A"<ociatc News Editor 
Cardinal !.'rands Arinze of Nigeria, who has bonn rn11n­tiorwd in many media accounts as a I~~ ad i n g e and i d atn for 
pope, will be awarded an honorary degree at Notre Dame's eornmence­rnnnt cere­mony May 
I 5 Cardinal Arinze 

Univnrsity sources confirmed. Theology professor Law­
ronco Cunningham said the University plans to award Arinze an honorary doctorate at graduation, unless he is named pope before then. 
"II' IArin;<:e is elected popel he obviously will not b11 at the com rnenenme nt," Cunningham told Tho Obsorvnr for an arti­cle published April 4. 
A second University source also eonlirmed the award. 
However, Dennis Brown, assoeiatn director of Notre Dame News and Information, said the University is "not pre­pared to announce the hon­orary degrees at this time." 
Arinze, 72, was dose to Pope .John Paul II, who chose the Nigerian cardinal to lead the Pontifical Council for lnter­Heligious Dialogue in 1985. Arinze, as the Prefect ol' Divine 
ROTC holds annual Pass in Review 
Branches present to U11 iversity president 
By KATIE PERRY 
N<·ws Wrirrr 
Tlrn Notre Damn Bnsnrvn Offirnr Training Corps (HOTCJ hold its annual l'rnsid1~ntial Pass In Hnvinw at the .Joyrn Center Wednesday to salutn a snlncl. group of cadets and midship­llll'n for thoir dPmonstratnd oxePllnnce in leadnrship, pro­fessionalism and acadnmics, as wnll as thnir ov1~rall loyal­ty to tho community. 
Thn ovnnt -whieh origi­natns from nwdinval military pradic~o-is intnndod to allow tlw commanding officor or prosid11nl. to assoss his or· h11r troops for eombat roadi­rwss. Tlw Pass In Heview has bn11n an intogral part of IWTC at Notro DamP since tlw program's induction to tho University in I842. 
Mornbors of tho Army bat­talion, Navy battalion and Air 
. 
Forco wing participatnd in the ceremony to honor their fellow cadets and midship­men for their accomplish­ments in their respective fac­tions of HOTC. Of the pro­gram's 311 total members, 90 are in Army, 111 are in Navy and 110 are in Air Force. 
"We hold the ceremony each year to pay homage to those who have worn the 
Keough Institute draws Gaelic scholars 
By TRICIA DE GROOT 
News Wrirer 
For tlw first tirnn in its his­tory, Notro Damn is hosting tlw Anwriean Conf11rence for Irish Studins (;\CIS) Annual G 1nw ral Mnn ti ng, traditionally the largest sin­gin gathering of Irish studies sdwlars in tho world. 
"Wn aro dnlightod, and it is appropriato that wn arn hosting this signilkant con­fornnce bontuse the Univnrsity of Notr11 Dame has, throughout its history, lw nn a h o nw for Irish­Arnerkan people," Assistant l>irnctor of N11ws and Information Mikf1 Garvoy said. 
Susan llarris, one of this yoar's co-organizers, said 

Welch has 'Winning' n1essage 
By MATT LOZAR Senior Stall' Writer 
Whatever tho case may be, Notre Dam11 studnnts are obsossod with winning. 
Couple that obsnssion with one of tho most succnssful busi nessnwn 
of all time, and that is why thn .Jordan Auditorium was fi lied to capaeity just minutes after its 


d o o r s Welch 
o p e n o d Wednesday aftnrnoon. 
Former Gennral Eleetric chairman and CEO .lack Welch visitnd the Mnndoza College of Business for a question-and-answer session and for promotion his new book "Winning." 
"The biggest thing I got out of winning in business was seeing others sueeood," Woleh said. 
Welch said onn part lw enjoys about seeing otlwrs suceeed is when lw observes nmployees of winning busi­nesses who give baek to tho community. 
"ITiwre an~ I a lot of altru­ism acts that camo from win­ning companies," Wnleh said. "No dot-corns that blew up gavn lbaekl. Only winning companies give back." 
Tho session start11d with a number of questions to Welch by College of' Business dnan Carolyn Woo, followed by several asknd by tho largo audionr.o. Wnleh spokn on many topies. 
llis very pro-business atti­tude bocamn apparent through tho snssion. When one student asked W1dch if legislation should he writtnn to foree companies to give back to soeinty, she was met with an omphalic, "No." Weleh eallnd business the 
see WELCH/page 6 


u n i f o r m b e fill' e us an d to those who will be commis­sioned in May as ofl'ieers," freshman Navy non: cadet Bryan Garcia said. "The cer­emony is also a time to rec­ognize and honor the First Class midshipm~om, especially those who represnnt the highest values of courage, honor and commitment. to both Notre Dame as well as 
University President Father Edward Malloy presented two Army cadets, four Navy midshipmen and three Air Force cadets with awards for their noteworthy achieve­ments in the HOTC program. Malloy then addressed the battalion and· wing morn bers along with the more than 150 attendees of the event, giving 
the battalion." see ROTC/page 6 
University hosts Irish studies conference 

Seamus Deane, leading Irish intellectual and co-founder of the Keough Institute, speaks Wednesday at ACIS meeting. 
ACIS pr11sid11nt .John llarrington ran into co­organizer Sarah McKibbon at a confernnce. The two began discussing tho possi­bility of hosting the 2005 conference at Notre Dame. 
. 
McKibben bngan speaking with professor Christopher Fox, direetor ol' the Keough lnstitutn, and a plan to host tho event was developed. 
see SCHOLARS/page 4 
Students pursue Irish Studies minor 
By LISA SCHULTZ 
News Writer 
While every Notre Damn stu­dent can daim to be Fighting Irish, somn ean actually say thny reeeivnd a true Irish education. 
Founded in 1993, the Keough Institute for Irish Studies has been garnering attention for the University recently as people gain understanding of what Irish Studies means for Notre Damn students. 
"!Being an Irish Studios stu­dent is/ not just getting drunk on St. Patrick's Day," director and co-founder of the Keough Institute for Irish Studies and English professor Christopher Fox said. "It's a serious entPr­priso." 
The Institute is a serious 
see KEOUGH/page 4 

Worship and tho Disdplo of tho Sacranwnts, has boon actively involvnd in er·nating interfaith dialogue among Catholics, Jlindus and Muslims.. 
As a convert, he is known for being able to sp1mk authorita­tively on cross-cultural issuns, espeeially in Nigoria where nnarly half or tho population is 
see DEGREE/ page 6 

Thursday, April 14, 2005 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Worst day ever 
If you didn't already know it, today is officially the worst day in history. But I'm not talking about your poor social misfortunes. ' Look at just three of the things that have occurred on this 
Ken Fowler
day that make your concerns look petty. 
Sports Writer 
April14, 1865: John Wilkes Booth shoots President Lincoln in Ford's Theater. 
Just days after the Civil War concluded, the nation fell into turmoil once again as its time-tested hero lay slain in a balcony during a performance of "Our American Cousin." From that point on, no presi­dent took his safety for granted. 
April14, 1912: the Titanic strikes an iceberg and begins sinking in the north Atlantic. 
The invincible, colossal giant of the seas, built to survive the greatest of colli­sions, met its match in the icy waters on its voyage to New York. Over 1,500 pas­sengers and crew perished. 
April 14, 2000: the stock market boom of the Nineties met its match, as the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell an unprece­dented 617 points and the Nasdaq lost nearly 10 percent, plummeting 355 points. 
The market that experts thought could only go up under President Clinton finally crumbled under the pressures of over­pricing, faulty accounting and massive protests in Pennsylvania against the World Bank. 
So there you have it: the Great Emancipator died, the most majestic ship ever sank and the strongest economy in history was shaken to its foundations ­all on April14. 
What I guess I'm trying to say here is that no matter how poorly you think your day is going, look at how many other people went through things much worse -on the exact same day. 
Maybe you got stuck in a swimming lane with a creepy old man at the Rock. 
Just think, at least the water is heated and you don't have to worry about hypothermia. 
Or maybe you accidentally bounced your check paying for a copy of Jane Fonda's new book, and NDFCU is going to charge you a $30 fee. 
At least you didn't lose the equivalent of $4 billion over the course of three hours. 
Or possibly you got jipped out of a quad you wanted during the lottery or picks. 
Well, think about this for a second: at least you weren't an assassin's target during a play you went to see and enjoy. 
I would definitely choose living with a night-crawler for a semester over dying while watching a sappy play. 
So in the end, when you're complain­ing to your friends at the dinner table, just sit back and think. 
Touch the back of your head. Is it there? Well then smile. 
Breathe slowly. Is there water infiltrat­ing your lungs? Ifnot, breathe some more. 
Check your wallet. Is there something of value in there that you can barter on the black market? 
That's what I thought. Now stop complaining and find a new pastime. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are tlwse of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Ken Fowler writes this at kfowlerl @nd edu 
CORRECTIONS 
In the Wednesday, April 13 edition ofThe Observer, The Observer incorrectly described an AP story as saying the NCM had approved a 12-game college football schedule. The NCM board ofditectors must still give final consideration to the plan befure it is made official. Due to an editing error, the photographs run on the front page Wednesday were credited to Katie Green. The photos were acrually taken by Allie Greene. Due to a reporting error in the baseball article in Wednesday's edition ofThe Observer, Derik Olvey's first name was misspelled. 
• . . . • _ . Th~ 9~se!!'e~ rffifets ~~ ~reo~._ _ ~ _ • • • _ 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE SUB ACTIVITY AND WHY? 


Julie Hynes Alex French Sheldon Dutes Kristin Schwarz Liz Kozlow Patrick Corrigan 
sophomore sophomore sophomore sophomore sophomore sophomore Howard O'Neill Keenan Pasquerilla East Pasquerilla West Keenan 
"The SUB "Any one that "Definitely not "The SUB "The one with "When are we 




movies, because Jimmy's at." the quarter dog movies, because 
I love movies." eating contest, 
because I don't 
like hot dogs. " 
I love it when they change the reel three times." 


have pounded on their key­boards a long time before coming up with this one: GoldenPalace.com. The Internet casino paid $650,000 for the right to name the foot-high pri­mate, online auction house CharityFolks.com announced Wednesday. 
"This species will bear our name for as long as it exists," a spokesman said. "Hundreds, even thousands of years from now, the GoldenPalace.com Monkey will live to carry our name through the ages." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Bush, Cheney, Rumsfeld honored with beetles 
NEW YORK -U.S. President George W. Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney and Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld can now also be called bushi, cheneyi and rumsfeldi, or simply slime-mold beetles. 
Two former Cornell University entomologists named three species in the genus Agathidium after the 
U.S. leaders, Cornell announced on Wednesday. 
Quentin Wheeler and Kelly Miller christened 65 new species of slime-mold beetles, named for the fungi-like molds on which they feed, which they discovered after collecting thousands of speci­mens for a study of their evo­lution and classification. 
Wheeler, who after 24 years as a professor of ento­mology and plant biology at Cornell is now the keeper and head of entomology at the Natural History Museum in London, said the U.S. lead­ers were being honored for having "the courage of their convictions." 
New monkey species gets unusual moniker 
NEW YORK -An infinite number of newly discov­ered monkeys trying to name themselves could 
TODAY -TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 


...1 
~
~ 
c( 

(,) 
0 

...... HIGH 65 HIGH 63 HIGH 64 LOW 55 LOW 40 LOW 45 

HIGH LOW 

Texas. " going to get 
Bruce Springsteen here?" 
IN BRIEF 

Notre Dame's College Republicans will host a bake sale for social security issues from 
11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. today at the Fieldhouse Mall. 
Author Collen Kinder will have a book signing of her book "Delaying the Real World: A Twentysomething's Guide to Seeking Adventure" today. The event will begin at 4 p.m. in the ND Room in LaFortune. 
Author and scholar Adela Cortina will speak on the ethics of development and recognize the career achievements of Notre Dame economist Denis Goulet Thursday at 5 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. Cortina will put forward a model of development ethics in a talk entitled "Development Ethics: A Road to Peace." 
The Mike Peterson Show, NDtv's late night show, will hold . its Year-End Spectacular at 7 
p.m. Friday in Washington Hall. Guests include voice of the Fighting Irish Sgt. Tim McCarthy, as well as performances by musi­cal guest Da Natural and Humor Artists of Notre Dame. Tickets are free at the LaFortune Box Office. 
A multicultural Eucharistic Procession will be held Saturday. Mass in Sacred Heart Crypt will begin at 3 p.m., with the proces­sion leaving from the Crypt at 4. Benediction with the BlBssed Sacrament will be celebrated according to Filipino, Latino and traditional customs. During the celebration, Pope John Paul II will be remembered in a special way. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


HIGH 62 HIGH 62 LOW 41 LOW 49 

Thursday, April 14, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SAGA holds day of silence for gay issues 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
Sainr Mary's Ediwr 
.Just weeks aftnr being approved as an oflkial dub at Saint Mary's, the Straight and Gay Alliance (SAGA) knpt its prornisn of addressing issues sur­rounding snxuality by staging a day of silnnee Wndrwsday. 
SAGA ask1~d studenL'i to mako a day-long vow not to speak in order to "reeogniw and protnst tho discrimination and harass­nwnt -in nfl'oet, tho silencing ­nxtwrinneed by Jlnsbian, gay, hisnxual and transgnnderl stu­dents and their allies," a flier stat.od. Thn action at Saint Mary's was part of a largnr national movmnnnt on collngn and uniwr­sil.y campuses, whnrnin students arP silnnt for 24 hours. 
Whiln only a handful of stu­dents remained rnutn all day, doznns morn wore stickers dis­t.ributnd by SA<;A officers as a sign of support of the group's dliwL<>. 
"I decidnd to wear Ia sticker] lmcausn I thought it was impor­tant to raisn awarnness that S/\(;A is on campus now and it is nwognized," junior Sun Mitdwll said. 
Mikhnll addnd such evenL<> am particularly important in a Catholic nnvironmnnt. She said her sticker prompted plnnty of rnaction, indud i ng one student wh<1 askml hnr if shn was gay. 
"I said no, but just beeause I am not gay doesn't mean I can't support it," Mitchell said. 
Club president Megan Shaefli1r said students were encouraged to participate however they saw fit. 
"We did ask people to wear black l'or visibility ... but really it was just kind of left up to the stu­dent body" to participate howev­er it chose, she said. 
SehaefTer said rnaction from both students and faculty was positive. 
"I've seen nothing but support. so I think there has bonn a pretty good n~aetion as a whole," she said. 
Freshman and SAGA tmasurnr Sara Nielsm1 said she had indi­viduals tell her they appreciated what the dub was doing to create a more weleoming environment lin· gay and lesbian studenL<>. 
Thn day of silence came on the hoels of a prnsnntation sponsored by SAGA and the Student Diversity Board in whieh Sister Kathleen Dolphin, dirnetor of tho Center lor Spirituality, explained the teaching of the Catholic Church in regard to homosexu­als. 
"We are very excited !about our recent events!," Nielsen said. "We know we didn't have a lot of time bnfore the end of the school year, and we wantnd to get in a eouplo of things." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at Onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
Senators select new-liaisons 
By MADDIE HANNA 
Associate News Ediror 
Perhaps drawing inspiration from a seasoned student gov­ernment ollieial's success story, nnw senators demonstrated ini­tiative by running foT liaison positions as well as hearing eomrnitteo reports and passing a resolution at Wednesday night's Sonate meeting. 
Senior dass president Darrell Scott assumed the podium to discuss his aehievnmont in get­ting part of the scaffolding sur­rounding the dome removed temporarily for graduation. 

Although Scott did not realize how eontroversial the issue would become -and said he first thought, "Well, that's the way the cookie crumbles" ­Scott said once the e-mails from disappointed and frustrated seniors began l'looding in, he started to do research and pre­sented a plan to University olli­dals. 
"Wn're adults -the adminis­tration will work with you," he said. "Be respectful towards University officials -it's easy to mako them look like the boogey­man." 
Scott said the coalition of load­ers that formed to unite the stu­dent union was key in eounter­ing the mounted scaffolding and emphasized this unity to sena­tors for their future efforts in 
n~~tc:ting c~ange... . 
Never gwe up, he smd. 

Aftnr student body vice presi­dent Lizzi Shappell introduced the different student govern­ment bodies of which senators an~ members, senators voted on which of their peers would serve as liaisons to Campus Lifo Council (CLC), Council of Hepresentatives (CO 10, Financial Management Board (FMB), Judicial Council and Faculty Senate. 
Knott senator .Jacques Nguyen, Stanford senator David Thaxton and Lewis senator Katie Mcllugh were eleetnd to serve on CLC. Pasquerilla West senator Christina Lee was elect­ed as an alternate CLC member. 
Keough senator Hob l.indloy, Dillon senator Dan Bowen, Keenan senator Jason Zgrabik and O'Neill senator SteVf1 Tortorello were elected as liaisons to COH. Morrissny sena­tor Brian Klein was elected as COR alternate. 
Fisher senator Chris Garibaldi and Alumni senator Andrew Beatty were elected to FMB. 
St. Ed's senator Fn1d Thwaitos was elected to Judicial Couneil, and Welsh Family senator Brenna Doyle was eleeted to Faculty Senate. 
Several committee chairs dis­cussed recent developments in their projects. 
Steve Cartwright stood in for Community Helations committee chair Nick Guzman and described the committee's "exdting" upcoming plans. 
"It's virtually unpreemlented, getting students behind commu­nity relations initiatives," he said. 
Cartwright said the committee would be working on instituting an off-campus safety seminar, permanent roles for students in neighborhood coalitions, unofli­eial partnerships with legal rep­resentatives, an off-campus resourcn guide and a South Bond opportunities guidn. 
Gender Helations committee chair Aly Wishon said shn, Shappell, student body presi­dent Dave Baron and fornwr viee prnsident Karla Bnll had met with .Vice President of Stud1mt Affairs Bill Kirk and NI>SP director H11x Hakow regarding the Freshman Orientation sexual assault inlilr­mation segment. 
Baron, speaking on behalf of Hesidence Life eommittne chair Mark Seiler, said student gov­emment had mnt rncnntly with Oflien of Information Teehnolo1-,ry ehinf information oiTieor Gordon Wishon about several issues, induding printnrs and wireless aecoss in dorms, an ollice hours database and computnr safety information. 
Senators also unanimously passed a resolution honoring outgoing University President Father Edward "Monk" Malloy. 
"It's a way to give a lit.tln mspnet to this person who has servnd this community so gra­ciously," Baron said. 
Baron told senators to mobi­lizn their dorm eonstit.uendns to attend the Malloy fan1wnll Mass Sunday at 9 p.m. in the Joyce Centnr. 
"We'll be presnnting gifts to Father Malloy on the bnhalf of the student body," he said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhanna1@nd.cdu 
Hall Presidents Se11ator,s Class CouncilMen1bers StudentE· PIOV'BiJs Clull OHicers Class Project leado 
Vo!unte..,rs Dane~= Comm.. slfJI'Iers 


Attention Class of 2001 
Now Accepting Applications for 
JPW 2006 Committee 
Help select the committee, theme, decorations, speakers, food and everything else for your Junior Parents Weekend! 
Fill out an application this week in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune, or call631-7308 for more details. 
Applications Due MONDAY, APRIL 18TH at 5:00pm. 
,--i 

Apply for any of the following Committee Positions:  
Chairperson Vice-Chairperson Secretary Treasurer Gala Chair Dinner Chair Brunch Chair Graphic Designer  I ;: I  
Mass Chair Arts & Letters Chair MCOB Chair College of Science Chair College of Engineering Chair Hall Luncheon Chair Hospitality Chair  I I I  
~,..  


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 14, 2005 

Scholars 
continued from page I 
Harris said she, McKibben and Fox planned the confer­ence for over a year. Numerous other faculty, staff, departments, offices and institutes all over cam­pus contributed financial support for the conference, making it a truly University­wide effort. 
"We are particularly excit­ed about this conference because it will give us a events running concurrently with the panels, including concerts, exhibitions, poetry readings and a festival. The schedule includes papers ­some of which will be pre­sented by Notre Dame facul­ty and graduate students ­on subjects as varied as "Paddy Punk," Irish sport, James Joyce, Irish dance, the "Troubles" in Northern Ireland, gay Irish fiction, recent film and theater, women's writing, scandal in Irish culture and Irish America. 
Most of the programming 
chance to host so many other Irish studies scholars and introduce them to the pro­gram and to the resources avail­able at Notre Dame," Harris said. 
There are at least 3 70 partici­pants registered for the confer­
ence, and up to 
300 will be partic­ipating in 100 panels on all 
"The University of Notre Dame has, throughout its history, been a home for Irish-American people." 
Mike Garvey assistant director of news and Information 
for the ACIS will take place in McKenna H a I l . Several events are open to the public, and McKibben said coordi­nators hope undergrad­uates and alumni attend. 
"These sorts of con­

aspects of Irish studies, including history, politics, lit­erature, art, architecture and film and television. 
"With over 12 plenary speakers and 100 panels on all aspects of Irish studies, there is something for every academic taste," assistant professional specialist and program coordinator for Irish Studies Eamonn 6 Ciardha said. 
There is also a series of 

ferences often happen at a distance from undergradu­ates or over break," she said. "Instead, we want our stu­dents to get the chance to enjoy and learn from all the events, from lecture to pan­els to films to photographs to music that we've all brought to campus." 
ContactTricia de Groot at pdegroot@nd.edu 

Keough 
continued from page I 
enough enterprise to catch global attention. When the Associated Press released "Notre Dame Fosters Irish Language Revival," it ranked No. 7 on the top ten most popular links for the week of March 17-23 on CNN.com. 
Interest stems from what Fox calls the "third generation fac­tor." Irish American immigrants were taught they were not going to make it in America if their Irish identity showed through, Fox said. Now, their grandchil­dren and great-grandchildren are seeking out the culture they lacked. 
Curiosity about Irish Studies is evident on campus. In the last four years, enrollment in the minor has increased from 13 to 61 students. In the 2004-2005 school year, over 900 students took courses within the Department of Irish Language and Literature. 
Irish Studies at Notre Dame is distinct from similar programs at other universities because Irish Language and Literature is its own department as of this school year. 
Through generous grants, beginning with a 2.5 million dol­lar donation from Donald Keough in 1993, the Institute has grown tremendously. Seamus Deane, who Fox calls "the Irish intellec­tual," co-founded the institute and has attracted top professors in the world to the Keough Institute. These professors are now faculty within the Department of Irish Language and literature. 

Fox said he and Deane intend­ed to create a truly international program. . 
"We wanted to make Ireland, not Irish America, central," Fox said. 
Creating an authentic interna­tional studies program has been accomplished by putting Irish, which is now a minority lan­guage, at the forefront. Students in the Irish Studies Minor Area Studies Program must begin by taking three Irish Language courses. 
"[Notre Dame's program] puts teaching of the Irish language at the heart of the academic experi­ence," Irish Studies Program director and history professor Eamonn 6 Ciardha said. 
The Irish Studies minor also requires students to take four other classes in anthropology, English, Irish language and liter­ature, film, television, and the­ater, government and history. In the spring 2005 semester, cours­es ranged from "Irish and American Dance" to "Irish Gothic From Union to Troubles." 
"[The Irish Studies minor] pro­vides a wondeTful avenue to exposure to all parts of Ireland," senior Maeve Carey said. 
Carey spent the spring semes­ter of her junior year studying abroad in Dublin, Ireland. She took classes at University College Dublin in history and politics and took two classes through the University of Notre Dame's Keough Center in Dublin. 
Each year, approximately 70 Notre Dame students -15 of which are Irish Studies minors ­study in Dublin, according to 6 Ciardha. In addition to study abroad opportunites, the Keough Institute also typically awards five summer internships, two of which are reserved for students with a minor in Irish Studies. Carey was an intern during sum­mer 2004. 
"I lived in the heart of Dublin with five other Notre Dame stu­dents and worked in the press office of the Irish Department of Foreign Affairs," Carey said. "Dublin had become a home away from home." 
Exposure to Irish and European politics gave Carey some insight to writing her Capstone Essay, the final Irish Studies minor requirement, which is fulfilled senior year. The goal of the 20-to 30-page essay is to link the student's major to their Irish Studies minor. Carey said her paper bridges this gap well. 
"My major is political science, so I am writing my Capstone about the changing American role in the Northern Ireland peace process since [Sept. 11, 2001]," she said. 
The Keough Institute also has about 20 graduate students in four different disciplines. Grad students have an opportunity to study in Ireland through the Irish Seminar, which is also run by the Keough Institute and usually attracts 30 to 40 international graduate students. 
What began as a small Notre Dame project more than a decade ago has now become an increasingly comprehensive international program, making Notre Dame a landmark of Irish studies in the United States. 
'This is the University of Irish 
Contact Lisa Schultz at lschultz@nd.edu 


Saturday 4/16 Thursday 4/21 ....~16-~:24 
fisher regatta 11 am holy cross hill carnival 3pm south quad and west quad 
howard duck hunt 5pm Coleman-Morse comedian jim gaffigan 8pm legends knott on the knoll 4pm best of acoustiCafe 1Opm legends sub movie oceans 12 4:30pm 7pm DeBartolo 101 sub movie finding neverland 1Opm DeBartolo 101 
Sunday4j17 Friday4/22 
free laundry llam-6pm IaFortune laundry center recess noon west .quad trees 
closing mass for father malloy 9pm joyce center unveiling of "the shirt" noon hammes notre dame bookstore followed by celebration 10:30pm battle of the bands 6pm legends Monday4/l8 sub movie finding neverland 8pm and 10:30pm DeBartolo 101 panera delivery to classes Saturday 4/23 tye-dye t-shirt 11:30am east south quad AnTostal concert 9pm legendsspeaker ken jennings 7:30pm DeBartolo 101 sub movie finding neverland 4:30pm and 7pm DeBartolo 101 

Tuesday 4/19 Sunday4j24 
panera delivery to classes cubs trip (tickets sold out)big wheel racing 11 :OOam north entrance dbrt quarter dog eating contest 12am IaFortune 

Wednesday 4/20 
big red chair & mini golf 2pm east south quad aJL ~aM ~~MA$3 
punt pass & kick qualifying contest 2pm fieldhouse mall 
~io.~futtk~~~!
late night grille 8pm north quad drive-in movie billy madison 9pm north quad 


da6.~.ettu 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, April 14, 2005 CoMPILED FROM TIH OBSERVER's WlRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Rumsfeld visits U.S. soldiers 
()ALAI', Afghanistan -Def'onso Seeretary Donald II. Humsfeld visited U.S. soldiers Wedrwsday on a morale boosting mission mixt~d with ol'lkial talks on the future U.S. rol11 in Afghanistan. 
li.S. wmJJHLJHiers told Humsfeld in detailed hric-l'ing on thPir operations in Zabul Province along lhn Pakistan border that Talihan fightnrs still have some sanctuaries and support among tho local population, but that U.S. for-ens operating with newly trairwd Afghan troops an1 making steady progress in nroding that support.. 
Tlw dni'Pnsn chief l'111w to Kandahar in soutlwrn Afghanistan following a orw-day visit to Iraq and lfwn traveled by helieopter to <}alai. whnrn U.S. troops are running what tlwy call a provincial rt1construdion team thai providns l'ivic aid as well as sncurity for rnconst.ructitln pr11jeets. 
Pope's tomb reopens to pilgrims 
VATICAN CITY -Cluu~hing rosaries, nwdals and l'lowPrs. thousands of p1wpln lilnd past Llw simpln whitn marhln tomb of l'opP .John Paul II on Wndrwsday, as Llw Vatican rPopPnPd lhP grottoes lwneath St. PPI.N's Hasilica to tlw public. 
SomP ol' tlw motJJ'llPrs said tlwy had eomn not only to pray for .John Paul, hut also to pray to him. Many Boman Catholics bPiiPVP . John Paul. who diPd April 2 at age S4, was a saint.. 
Pilgrims lirwd up as Parly as 4 a.m., thrPP hours IJPforP llw grottoes wnr·e reopnrwd, in tlw 1-risp moming air. 
They knnlt lwl'orn tlw grav11 to pray, and many handPd rPiigious art.ides to an uslwr, who touclwd Llwm to tl111 gravn hd'ore hand­ing tlu•m hack. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Advisers vote to allow silicone implants 
WASIIIN<iTON-In a surprising turn­around. fednral lwalth advisnr·s Wndnnsday 1'11Commnndl1d allowing silir.orw-gel breast implants to return to tlw U.S. mark11t after a I ]-yiHll' han on most uses of the deviees ­hut only under striet eonditions that will limit how 1•asily wonwn ean got them. 
Mentor Corp. pnrsuadnd advisers to the h)()d and Drug Administration that its newer silkone implants are reasonably safe and morn durable than older versions. The 7-2 vot11 eanre just orw day aft11r a rival manufac­turer. !named Corp., failed to satisfy linger­ing eonc11rns about how often thn implants hrPak apart and IPak inside wonwn's bodies. 
Officials limit labs that handle viruses 
WASIIIN<;TON-Evnn as they sought to reassur•~ a wary public, f11deral health ol'li­l'ials detailml plans Wednesday to restrict thn numlwr of' labs that can handle deadly llu virusns like LIH~ ones sent to thousands of facilities worldwi(k, 
"We are working on thn side of eaution," said l>r. .Julin (;erberding, director of' the <:nntPrs for DisPase Control and l'rnvention. 
l.ahs around the world tracked and destroyed samplns of' l.hn deadly llu strain, whkh has been induded in a kit dnsigned to test a lab's ability to identify viruses. The CDC was trying to determine why the deadly 112N2 l'lu virus was induded in the first place. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Daniels names two appointments 
INDIANAI'Ol.IS-Gov. Miteh Daninls appoint­ml vetPran judg11 Mary Len Comer WPdnnsday to lead his administration's nf'forts in training, advising and nnforcing ethics laws for state om ployees. 
lin also appointed llnather Bolnjw~k. an attor­ney from Indianapolis, as the now executive dirndor of tlw Indiana Criminal .Justice Institute. The agency oversees stall~ planning lhr criminal justk1~. juvenih1 justice, trallic safety and victim serviens. and administers federal and state money to carry out long-rangn stratogins. 

Rudolph admits to bombing 
Says attack at 1996 Olympics was statement against government's laws on abortion 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA -A defiant Eric Hudolph plnaded guilty Wednesday to carrying out the deadly bombing at thn 1996 Atlanta Olympies and throe other attacks, saying he picked the Summer Games to em banass tho 
U.S. govnrnment in front of the world "for its abom­inablo sanctioning of abor­tion on dnmand." 
"Because I belinvn that abortion is murdor, I also bnliew that force is justified ... in an attempt. to stop it," he said in a statnnwnt hand­nd out by his lawyers after he ontl~rnd his pleas in baek­to-baek court appnarancns, lirst in Birmingham, Ala., in tho moming. then in Atlanta in the aftnrnoon. 
Hudolph, 38, wor"nd out a plea bargain that will spare him from tho dnath pnnalty . lin will got four consecut.ivn lili~ sen!Pnces without parolo lin· tho lin1r blasL<; across tho South that killnd two pnopln and wounded more than 120 otlwrs. 
Hudolph oxpressnd rnmorsn in his statement only !'or the Olympic bomb­ing, saying "I do apologizn to the victims and their fami­lins." 
In all the attacks, ho said he intnnded only to target "agents of the Washington government" or "abortion­the Washington government alistic notion of knocking over snvual days. lin said ists." in the eyes of the world for down the power grid sur­he plannnd to make phorw 
In the Atlanta courtroom, its abominable sanctioning rounding Atlanta and eonse­calls well in advanen of nac.h Hudolph sat stone-faced and of abortion on demand." quently pulling the plug on explosion. "leaving only uni­answered questions calmly Hudolph said in the state­the Olyrnpies for their dura­formed arms-carrying gov­and politely. In Birmingham, ment, in which he also quot­tion." nrnnwnt. personnnl nxposnd though. he winked toward ed the Bible repnatedly, con­The bomb that nxploded to potential injury." prosecutors as he entered demned homosexuality and at the Olympics was hidden But hn said poor planning court, said the government complainnd that the in a knapsa1:k and sent nails on his part made that live­eould "just barely" provo its Olympics promote "global and screws ripping through bomb plan impossible. case, and admitted his guilt socialism." a erowd at Centennial "I had sincnmly hopnd to with a hint of pride in his Tho plan, he said, "was to Olympic Park during a l:on­achieve these objnetions voieo. force the cancellation of the cert. A woman was killed without harming innoennt 
The statement -a ram­Games, or at least create a and 111 other peopln were eivilians," lw said. lin bling, right-wing manifesto state of insm~urity to empty wounded in what provnd to addnd: "Thorn is no excusn on 11 typewritten, single­the streets around the ven­be Hudolph's most notorious for this, and I ;u:eept full spaced pages -marked the ues and themby oat into the attack, carried out on an msponsibility li1r Uw eonse­first time he offered a vast amounts of money international stage amid qtwnees of using this dan­motivn lin· the attacks. invnsted." heavy security. gnrous tactic." 
"The purpose of the lie said that because he Hudolph said that. hn had lin said he blew up four IOiympicl attack on July was unabln to obtain the planned a much largM ot.hnr bombs in a vac.ant lot 27th 119961 was to eon­necessary high explosives, attack on thn Olympics that in Atlanta and l111't town found, anger and embarrass he "had to dismiss the unre-would have used live bombs "with much rnmorsn." 
IRAQ 

American pleads on video for his life 
Ameriean flag lluttered on a pole from past year.
Associated Press 

tho home. The U.S. Embassy said the The AI-Jazenra tapn showed a man 
man on the video appeamd to be Ake, sitting behind a desk with at loast. 
BAGHDAD -An Indiana man, a contract worker who was kidnapped three assailants -two hooded and seared and dutehing his passport to around noon Monday. one oiT-eamera-pointing assault his chest, was shown at gunpoint on a The video came on a day of bloody rilles at him. Ake, wearing an open­videotape aired by Al-Jazoera televi­attacks, as ,insurgents blew up a fuel collar shirt with rolled-up shirt slneves, sion Wednesday, two days after hn was tanker in Baghdad, killed 12 policemen was sitting or kneeling behind a wood­kidnapped from a water treatment in Kirkuk, and drove a ear carrying a en desk and holding what appnarnd to plant noar Baghdad. The station said bomb into a U.S. convoy, killing live be a photo and a passport. . he pleaded for his life and urged U.S. Iraqis and wounding four U.S. eontrad The station didn't air audio of thn troops to withdraw from Iraq. workers on the capital's infamous air­video, but said the man asked thn U.S. 
The United States said it would port road. government to bngin talks with the maintain its policy of not negotiating Ake -tho 4 7 -year-old president and Iraqi rnsistancn and save his life. No with kidnappers. CEO of Equipment Express, a company group dainwd responsibility, and there 
In LaPorte, Ind., a yellow ribbon was that manufacturers bottled water was no way to authentieatn tlw vid110. lind around a tree outside Jeffrey Ake's equipment-is the latest of' more than Al-Jaznera didn't say how it obtained one-story brick house, and an 200 foreigners seized in Iraq in the the tape. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 14, 2005 
Welch 
continued from page 1 
"engine of the economy." 

"Without business, there is nothing," he said. "The Mendoza College of Business is just dust without people donating. Business is the only thing that creates in this society. 
"It's so fundamental. Don't let anyone tell you anything else." 
Welch and GE grew extremely quickly during his reign at the top of the com­pany, and a major reason for Welch's success came from his ability to deal with his employees. He did so quanti-
Presidential Pass In Review. The president will resign from his post at the conclusion of the semester. 
In his speech, Malloy urged 
honorees  to  
"relish  and  
savor  the  
moment  of  

recognition" but also 

reminded them of their cru­cial responsibilities ·as mili­tary figures. Calling the con­temporary era a "perilous time in world and American history," Malloy enumerated the weighty tasks entrusted to the United States military. He said natural disaster relief, intervention in the plights of struggling nations and global deterrence of ter­rorism are among these duties. 
While he advised graduat­ing cadets and midshipmen to keep the military casual­ties in Afghanistan and Iraq salient as they advance into active duty, Malloy also expressed faith in the senior ROTC members and praised their capacities as noble leaders. 
"It takes a special kind of person to be a leader," Malloy said. The president noted a laudable character and a lucid demonstration of values as fundamental attrib­utes of any effective leader. 
tatively by having his !em flunking kids out." employees graded but never Interestingly, when asked surprised employees with a later in the 75-minute ses­firing. Welch stressed the sion, Welch said the top need to inform thing he sees employees about missing in their job perform­"I never felt like I today's college ance. had a job. Ifyou graduates is 
"[Great] CEOs their human
get the right job,
really understand resources 
people are what you never work a skills. matters," he said. day in your life. " "What you "Every day you will always evaluate them have is rela­
Jack Welch 
and try to make tionships," he 
former CEO,
them grow. It's said. "How to insane that peo­General Electric evaluate, moti­ple don't know vate, excite, how they're lay someone doing. Why do grades stop off the right way." when we become adults? Concerning his advice for 
"In the ninth, lOth or 11th up-and-coming business grade, we don't have a prob-leaders, Welch emphasized 
the need for young workers to always provide bosses with more than they are expecting. 
"If you over-deliver, your career will take care of itself," he said. "If you have a career path !now], you will get nailed." 
As for running GE for 20 years and increasing the company's worth from $13 billion to several hundred billion dollars, Welch s.aid he really did not feel like it was work at all. 
"I never felt like I had a job," he said. "If you get the right job, you never work a day in your life." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
Malloy also said it is much harder to wield character
ROTC 

than ever before given today's political context.
continued from page 1 

"It is important to provide what would be his last opportunities to those who speech at a Notre Dame have entrusted responsibili­
ties in you," Malloy said. "To bring out the best

"I am confident 
in others is not

that {senior ROTC 
an easy task." 

members] will Malloy asked provide graduating ROTC members to uti­
outstanding 
lize material 

leadership. " learned in their respective pro­grams as well as
University president 
in their overall

Father Edward Malloy 
college experi.­

ence to develop into intellectual and value­driven constituents of the American military. 
The president said the possible." United States armed forces Garcia echoed the presi­
have a "wonder-· ful" tradition of 
"There is no better
bringing mem­
bers of the place [than Notre 
Notre Dame Dame] in which a ROTC program 
future officer can
into esteemed 
learn to become as
positions in the Army, Navy and tactically and Air Force. 
ethically excellent 
"I am confi­
as we prepare to
dent that [senior ROTC members] enter the military." will provide out­standing leader­
Bryan Garcia 
ship," Malloy 
Navy ROTC cadet
said, emphasiz­ing the value of 
dent's assertion of the useful and advantageous nature of Notre Dame's ROTC program in future endeavors in the armed services. 
"There is no better place [than Notre Dame] in which a future officer can learn to become as tacti­cally and ethi­cally excellent as 
well-rounded students in top­we prepare to enter the mili­ranking military positions. tary," Garcia said. "We depend on that for the best quality of decision-mak­Contact Katie Perry at ing and most flexible military kperry1@nd.edu 


Degree 
continued from page 1 

Muslim. According to CNN.com, though Arinze is considered theologically con­servative, he is embraced by Catholic liberals for his sup­port of Third World countries. 
And as the Church's cardi­nals prepare to choose a new pope, Arinze's name has been mentioned on the list of possi­ble candidates to succeed Pope John Paul II. 
If elected pope, Arinze would be the first black pope in 1,513 years. There has been much discussion sur­rounding the possibility of the next pope being from the Third World. including coun­tries in Central America, Latin America, Asia and Africa. Pope John Paul II believed in reaching out to the large poor Catholic population, and a pope from a Third World nation would help further these efforts, Cunningham said. 
"It would be good to have someone from, say, Africa, which has the fastest growing Catholic population, or Latin America," Cunningham said. "I think it would be a terrific thing for the Church -after all the Church is a Catholic Church." 
Brown said the University finalized the list of honorary doctorate recipients Wednesday and will release the names early next week. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 


The .Department of M.usic has reconfigured its undergraduate degree programs for those declaring the major in .Music beginning in Fall 2005. Students will now be able to select a 33­credit concentration in Music History and Theory or a 36-credit concentration in Pertonnance. (Students declaring the n'lajor prior to 2005-2006 will be subject to the requiretnents in efTect at the titne they declared.) 
For those students interested in music history and theory, the deparunent will otTer a 33­credit concentration in Music Histor-y and Theory, in which students will take classes with inten"Iationally recognized scholars. In n'lusic history classes, students will explore the develop.ment of' n1.usical forn'ls, styles and genres frotn the medieval period through the twentieth century. In n"Iusic theory courses, students will begin with the fundatnentals ofn"Iusic and progress to hannonic and fonnal analysis of' rnusic fron1 the Baroque period through the twentieth centuty. 
For those interested in developing their 1nusical skills to a professional level, the 36­credit concentration in Perf'ornaance provides the tools to do so. Building on ""'ork in the classroon'l, students have the opportunity to study with acclaitned perforrners in the areas of cello, organ, piano, violin, and voice, an'long others. l.'hey will also enhance their· study in performance by participating in vocal and in.stnnnental ensetnbles. 
A 33-credit concentration in 1'\'lusic and Culture is scheduled to be added in Fall 2006. Students will explore the diverse rnusical cultures of the world and ethnonuasicology in an interdisciplinaty sequence of courses. 
Students in all three concentrations will establish a solid rnusical Foundation through a curriculum of' core courses in history and theory. 
With the permission ofthe Departrnent., advanced students who ""'ish to pursue a tnore intensive course ot' study nlay enroll in the Honors Program, in which they will complete an additional six credits of requiren1ents. 
The Departn'lent of' Music and the Departtnent of' Theology co-administer a 15-credit Interdisciplinary Minor in Liturgical Music Ministry, with courses taught by faculty anen'lbers 
Interdisciplinary 1'\'linor in Liturgical Music 1'\'linistry, with courses taught by faculty rnen"Ibers 
For 1nore information visit the Departtnent of Music at Crowley Hall · Y'<W.W,JJ.d..,..§..Q!J..i::::muf>i£ or call (574) 63 1-621 I 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------·------~~--­

THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Thursday, April 14, 2005 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 


10,403.93 -I 04.04
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 987 143 ~ 2,041,983,630 
AMEX I,458.50 -8.15 NASDAQ 1,97.+.37 -31.03 NYSE 7,133.99 -74.05 S&PSOO 1,173.79 -13.97 NIKKEI(fokyo) II ,637.52 -32.78 
FTSE IOO(Lonclon) .f,9 60. 8 0 +14.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTRSERI(QQQQ). -1.64 -0.60 36.06 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.11 -0.28 25.04 INTEL CP (INTC) -1.72 -0.40 22.82 APPLE COMPUTER (AAPL) -3.80 -1.62 41.04 SIEBEL SYSEMS (SEBL) -3.23 -0.29 8.68 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND +0.64 +0.30 46.87 10-YEAR NOTE +0.32 +0.14 43.74 5-YEAR NOTE -0.30 -0.12 40.26 3-MONTH BILL +0.37 +0.10 27.17 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.64 50.22 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +I. 70 431 .00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) .-3.00 91.25 
Excha Rates 
YEN I 07.2900 EURO 0.7740 POUND 0.5278 
CANADIAN$ 1.2377 
IN BRIEF 
Poll: More teens carrying credit cards 
NI~W YOHK-Tlw crmlit card gmwralion is 
gntting youngnr. 
A nH~<Hit poll of ll·<~nagPrs who partieipatn in thn .Junior Arhinvnnwnt program found that morn than II pnrennt arn carrying crmlit cards, and somn of tlwm arn as young as 13 or 14 ynars old. In addition, thrne out of I 0 tnnnagPI's haw dwrking ar.r.ounts, and many arn liknly linknd to automatnd tnllnr machines with dnbit ranis. 
"Wn wni'I' a littln surprisnd at tlw numbnrs," said l>arrnll l.uzzo, snnior viw prnsldnnt for nducation at .lA Worldwidn, which is lwad­quartnn~d in Colorado Springs, Colo. "llaving a I'J'Pdit card is not nncnssarily a ll~rrible thing, so long as tlwy'rp bning nducatnd about l.lw appropriatn linandal prineiplns." 
But whiln S2 pPrcPnt of thn tnnn credit card usPI's said tlwy paid thnir bills in full nvnry month, IS JWrcnnt said they carriml balancns ovnr-a prarlic~P that has gottnn a lot of their parPnts in trouhln. 
"That isn't gn~at," l.uzzo said. "Aftnr a littlP. more~ mh11~alion, wn'd hopn that S2 JWrcnnt would risn." 
Financial nxpnrts arn COJH~nrnnd about thn ){rowing usn of rn~dit cards by teens, although thny g•mnrally must hn eo-signnd hy parents until a child is IXor oldnr. 

Weak retail sales cause stock drop 
NEW YOHK -Stocks slipped Wednesday dnspito a slidll in oil prices as March retail salns felt short of expectations and investors <~yed narnings and forncasts from a number of companies, induding a bright outlook from Dow component McDonald's Corp. 
Tho disappointing rntail sales report was a distraction for investors, who shruggnd oil' the sharp dndirw in oil futurns to focus on other conenrns, induding lirst-quartnr rnsults. Wall Strnd was also digesting the minutes of last month's Fmlnral Hnserve menting, trying to dedcle whethnr inflation would cause policy makers to bneome morn aggressive with interest rate hikos. Ilints of weaker consumer spending addnd to the alarm. 
"I would'vo nxpectnd the market to ad a lit­tin hit bettor based on what crudP. is doing," said Todd Clark, head of listed nquity trading at Wells Fargo Sncuritins. 



Public questions leader's ability 
Morgan Stanley's board confident in CEO, while executives leave, stock drops 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Even as 

Morgan Stanlny's board 
gave another votn of eonfi­
dnnr.e to embattled Chid 
Executive Phil Purcell 
Wmhwsday, mom high-lnvnl 
oxcwu ti vn d n partu res, a 
falling stoek price and 
incrnasnd sharnholdnr dis­
sent all led to tlw qunstion, 
can Purcell last? 
"That qunstion will IHi. answnred by tlw marknt, bncausn sharnholchw dissent wi II hn key," said Warren Bennis, distinguished pro­fessor or business adminis­tration at tlw University of Sout.lwrn California whoso liwus is leadership and cor­porate governance. "But I do think, in tho nnd, his days arn numbnrnd, unloss some­thing truly snismi<: hap­pens." 
Ynt throughout his tcmurP at Morgan Stanlny, and l>nan Witter bnl'ore that, PureP.II has not only sur­vived, but thrivnd. And thorn a ron 't many othor options for thn invnstment firm dnspite tlw volwment attacks on his loadorship by a group of dissident sharn­holdors and l'ormor P.XP.cu­tivos. 
"Nobody's showing up with an altornativn. If some­one were to eome and buy the company, that would be one thing. But the dissidnnts Stroot, the dissidents havP. Pnrella's departure is custonwrs at tlw highnst don't havo any eash on tho boon meeting regularly with more amieable than other level will start to think how table, just attacks, and institutional sharcholdnrs, recont top-levol resignations much tlwy want to trust l'ureell can ride that out," who have bneome increas­-Purcoll and Pernlla nven Mm:gan ~tanlny with tlwir said Hichard Bove, a securi­ingly rncoptive amid a drop­traded complimentary busmess. ties analyst with Punk, ping share priee and l'ow quotos in a Morgan Stanloy l>nspitn t.hn c.ont.inuing ~~ri­Zil~gel & Co. "Nothing at tho public words of encourage­pross wlnasn. Nonotheless, sis, thn board of dirnrtors on momnnt that would suggest ment from Morgan Stanloy's including Wednesday's res­WP.dnnsday rnitPratnd thnir he won't knP.p his job." managnment. ignations, f'ivn of the 14 support of Purr.PII and, in a 
.Whetlwr Purenll ultimate­While it's undoar whethor mnmbP.rs of the company's lntter to tlw disside-nts, ly survives or not, the dis­tho dissidents will succeed· exeeutive managemnnt urgnd that. thny stop attark­jointed and soemingly in gaining control of the committee have resigned ing the company. quixotic dissident protest company, thn situation for sinee late March, all coming "Thn Board of l>irm~tors has sparked a genuine erisis Pureoll seems to worsen from tho money-making has considnrnd narh of your at tlw iconic Wall Stroot almost daily. On Wndnesday, institutional banking divi­rommunirations," Uw 10 linn, with PurcP.II at the eon­tho company said Josoph sion. IHm-nxnrutive board mem­tor. Perella, 63, a star bankor on "1!. is very diiTieul!. for a bers wrotn in t.hn lnttnr, 
For wonks, the dissidents Wall StreP.t for morn than man to stay in control of a madn available by tho mm­havn demanded Purcnll's two deeades, will leavo his company when a largn num­pany. "Wn havn full eonli­oustnr and offnred formnr job as head of Morgan ber or his top managers vote dnnrn in Phil Purcnll and tlw Presidnnt Hobert Seott as a Stanloy's investmP.nt bank­against him by lnaving," stratngy that managomnnt is mplacement. While original­ing operations. I lis dP.puty, Bove said. "lnvnstors are pursuing. Wn an~ carefully ly grentnd with bemusod Tan~k "Terry" Abdoi­losing eonlidmH~e. the stock monitoring tho JWI'Iin·num<~n skepticism by many on Wall Meguid, 49, is also leaving. prien is falling, and I belinvP. of Morgan Stanloy. 

Federal judge orders stop to spam 
bution list. and, among other things, The lawsuit also allngos that thn n­
Associated Press 
they don't identify the sender. mails dupe eonsumnrs into rnsponding 
SAN FHANCJSCO -A li~deral judge· .John Chu, tllP. attorney for Optin and to the communications. ordP.red a Los Angelos company its owner Hick Yang and prosident "In numerous instanros, dnfondants Wednesday to stop sending unsolieitod Pnonie Pui Ting Chen, disputed the init.iatn commercial n-mail messagc~s e-mails the Fnderal Tradn Commission allngations in a hearing. "I don't think that promote mortgage snrvkns with and California's attorney general they've violated any law," Chu said. lie subject lwadings that dernptivnly sug­allegp, violate so-called anti-spamming added that his clients eonduet "busi­gost that the recipients have already regulations. ness in good faith." submittnd applieations, have ae1~ounts, 
U.S. District .Judge Samunl Conti, at According to the lawsuit alleging or havP. prior rnlationships with thn thn urging of thn government, dimeted Optin is violating 2004 anti-spamming sender," the lawsuit said. Optin Global Inc. and its owner and federal legislation, the FTC has Chu responded: "My dionts arn not president to refrain from sending bulk received more than 1.8 million com­responsible for generating the eontnnt e-mails advertising mortgagP.s, phar­plaints from consumers regarding e­of any of these messages." maeeutieal products and online college mails Optin allegedly distributed. California Attorney General Bill degrees. The government said the e­The eompany sells the information it Lockyer said thn lawsuit snoks up to mails are illegal because the messages obtains from consumers to other busi­$2,500 for every e-mail that violates allegedly are not marked as advertise­nesses, and those companies in turn tlw Controlling the Assault of Non­ments, they don't provide consumers contact the consumers offering their Solicited Pornography and Marketing with a method of getting ofT the distri-products and services. Act. 
------------~---------------------~ 
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April 14, 2005 
Funding for libraries nationwide disappears 
In two years, budget cuts at $111 million 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -Five times a 
week, Mike I Icn·mann gets on a 
bus and heads to the downtown 
public library to peruse shelves 
holding more than 9. 7 million 
books. 
It's a way for the newly unem­
ployed Cleveland man to pass 
the time between job searching 
and to have some fun in the 
process. 
If lawmakers approve Gov. Bob Tall's proposed state budget that cuts $22 million to public libraries, critics say library patrons like llcrrmann may find locked doors, or outdated mate­rials or smaller staffs. It's a situ­ation public libraries across the .nation are facing as local and state budgets •-emain squeezed by federal cuts, greater expens­es in health care and education 
and less tax revenue. 
"I can't imagine any more 
funding cuts," Herrmann said as 
he clutched two checked-out 
novels under his arm. "The 
quality of life in Ohio has gone 
downhill and this will just make 
it worse." 
Library budget cuts nation­
wide have totaled $111 million 
over the past two years, accord­
ing to the American Library 
Association. But Americans still 
are visiting libraries in record 
numbers, reaching 1.2 billion 
last year, the group said. 
"They want the latest 
resources. They want fast 
Internet connections," said Carol 
Brey-Casiano, president of the 
library association. "They recog­
nize that it's a publicly support­
ed institution, and they believe 
they should get and deserve the 
best resources." 
But some lawmakers say 
libraries must understand that 
these are tough times. 
"We cherish our libraries, but 
is it more valuable than school 
funding? No," said Hepublican 
state Hep. Jim Trakas. "Is it 
more valuable than Medicaid for 
a sick person? No. It's a matter 
of priorities." 
In cash-strapped Salinas, Calif. 

-hometown of John Steinbeck -the City Council voted to shut the entire public library service. Donations have kept the library running for 26 hours a week, but oiTicials there say if perma­nent funds aren't raised by December, the closing will be for good. . 
·"Libraries arc the bellwether of a community's eoncern about literacy. They are a central clearinghouse of knowledge available to everyone regardless of ineome or social status," said Liz Nolan, a member of the vol­unteer group Save Salinas Libraries. "The idea of our libraries not being there is incomprehensible to me." 
Michael J. Masch, secretary of budget and administration in Pennsylvania, said states must balance budgets amid rising public education and social wel­fare costs. 
"That makes it very difficult for us to be able to afford, to maintain and increase our level of funding for other very worth­while public goods, like library funding," he said. 
Pennsylvania's library funding ballooned from $30 million in 1998-99 to $75 million four years later. Masch said that level eould not be sustained during a recession and budget deficits, and library funding dipped to $47 million in 2003-04. Gov. Ed Rendell has recommended $59 million for libraries in the com­ing budget. 
Ohio's public libraries have generally enjoyed a profitable relationship with the state. In 2003, the most recent federal data available, Ohio received the most overall library funding at $56.85 per person, compared with a national average of $30.97. 
The libraries in Ohio also had the nation's most visits (6.9 for every one of the state's 11 mil­lion people) and circulate the most items (14.63 per capita.) 
Taft's two-year, $51 billion budget proposal would cut library funding by 5 percent to about $440 million annually. 
Library backers say the cuts will erode the strong public library system for which Ohio has been nationally known. 
Gunshot survivor rebuilds life 
Woman's facial surgery allows her to speak out on domestic violence 
Associated Press 

WACO, Texas -Waking up in a pool of blood, Carolyn Thomas didn't realize a bullet had blown off most of her face, leaving a concave void. 
She worried about her mother, who had bAen shot in the stom­ach. She wondered if help would come in time. 
When police enterod the apart­ment, an officer stepped over her, thinking she was dead. 
"I grabbnd his ankle to let him know I was alive and who had shot me," Thomas said. 
With bandages covering much of her disfigured facn, Thomas, 34, testified Wednesday -at her former boyfriend's murder trial, painting a tortured picture of abuse that ended in gunshots. 
She and her-former boyfriend, Terrence Dewaine Kelly, had dated more than 10 years when she and her mother were shot in 2003, Kelly, 32, faces from 15 years to life in prison if convicted of killing Janice Rerwes, 49, and injuring Thomas. He has pleaded innocent by reason of insanity. 
His attorney, Bill Johnston, doesn't dispute that Kelly shot the women. But he said his client has mental problems and didn't know his actions were wrong, which is the legal definition of insanity in Texas. 
But Thomas testified Kelly never showed signs cif mental ill­ness. Authorities say the day of the shootings, Kelly was high on marijuana laced with formalde­hyde. 
The bullet hit Thomas' right eye, tore off her nose, ripped through the roof of her mouth, pierced her left cheek and lodged in her left shoulder. 
Thomas met Kelly a few years after moving to Waco in 1990 from Midland, where she was a high school track star. Kelly wac; quiet and shy -much different than the smart, athletic, high­achieving guys she'd always dated -but she wanted to give him a chance, Thomas said. 
After dating nearly two years, they moved in together and the physical abuse began, Thomas said. His jealousy.escalated; Kelly forbade her from having male friends and from wearing tight outfi~, she said. 

Through the years Thomas had numerous bruises and bloody noses. but she never went to the hospital or caUed police. She some­times moved out but always went back, hop­ing Kelly's sweet side would resurface. 
When KellY-promised the ·violence would never happen again, Thomas believed him. She was also afraid that if she left for good, Kelly would carry out his threats of killing her or her relatives. 

"I did a lot of pray­ing," Thomas said. AP "Prayer is good, but in Domestic abuse victim Carolyn Thomas, those types of' situa-right, testified in court Wednesday. 
tions, you're going to need a lot more than prayer." 

Thomas broke away from Kelly in 2000 when he was sentenced to eight years in prison for a 1997 cocaine possession charge. 
But when Kelly wrote her let­ters saying he had changed, promising to attend truck-driving school and get a job after his release, she gave him one more chance. 
lie had been released on parole less than two months when the shootings happened at Reeves' Waco apartment, where Thomas and Kelly had been stay­ing. 
Thomas was hospitalized for six months. When she went home, a bandage covered all of her face except her left eye. She had a trachea tube to help her breathe and a stomach tube for feeding. 
She winced each time she had to clean the wounds. 
"That was the hardest thing, to be able to look at myself in the mirror," Thomas said. 
Thomas didn't go out much because pe0ple stared and some­times made rude comments, and she would frighten children. 
Thomas couldn't afford plastic surgery but found out about a free reconstructive surgery proj­ect developed in 1994 by the American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery and the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence. 
In February during a nine­hour operation, a team of sur­geons rebuilt Thomas' upper jaw using one of her lower leg bones. They used skin grafts from her thigh to reconstruct her cheek and used her facial tissue to reconfihrure her right eye socket. 
Thomas needs at least six more surgeries, and will get a prosthetic eye and dentures. Her new nose will be prosthetic, probably attached to eyeglasses, but she will be able to breathe through it and won't need the trachea tube. 
Now, Thomas' bandage is smaller, only covering her nose area and part of her mouth. She can cat some soft foods. 
She isn't as self-conscious any­more; she drives to the grocery store and to her weekly counsel­ing sessions. Thomas also has started speaking to students and church groups about domestic violence. 
"One thing I used to ask God was why did he leave me here. It was obvious he left me here for something. Why else would I sur­vive a gunshot to the face, with half my face gone?" she said. 
"I know why I'm here: to help women in domestic violence situ­ations. Maybe by looking at me, they'll be able to see and under­stand where I'm coming from. If I'd had someone like myself fto talk tol. ~.t might have made a dif­ference. 

• 
Come to the 

Badin Art Show Opening 
•

7pm Friday, April15 
• 
Badin Social Space 
Prizes awarded at 7:30pm 
1st place: $75 2nd place:$50 3rd place: $25 


Show runsApril15-17 
•


Entries due Wednesday, Aprill3 Open to all students ,..,All media accepted Interested? Contact <Kelly.A.Crecelius.l@nd.edu> 
• 


A Dating Context for Fun, for Growth, and eventually for a Great Marriage. See vw.rvv.DatingContext.con1 (6,500+ words online).  
artments $ FREE* $  

Thursday, April 14, 2005 · The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Law111akers e111brace fa111ily connections 
Congressional nepotism funded by donations 

Associated Press 
WASIIlNGTON -Dozens of' lawmakers have hired their spouses and childnm to work for thoir campaigns and political groups, paying them with contri­butions they've eollected from special interests and other donors. 
A few family members earn enough to make a living. Many come cheap. They manage thn books, give speeches, raise money and run the daily opnra­tions, according to an A<>sociatnd Press review of records. 
Such hirings are legal. but the practice became an issue this month when it was reported that the wife and daughter of I louse Majority Leader Tom DeLay had been paid more than $500,000 since 2001. They worked for DeLay's political action and cam­paign committees. 
Congressional bosses express no regrets about their family arrangements. 
"My wire raised $250,000 more than I ever raised with all the expensive consultants," Hop. Hon Lewis, H-Ky., told the AP. 
Lewis hired his wife, Kayi, to be his campaign director and campaign manager about a year ago, and he pays her $50,000 a year. lin estimated tho hiring saved him more than $40,000 a year in salary and consulting tees. 
Mary Hayworth, wife of Hepubliean Hep. .J.D. Hayworth of Arizona, earns $20,000 a year as the director and only employ­ee of his political action commit­tee. 
"The minimal salary she's paid is far less than if you hin~d some­body in from outside," spokesman Larry VanHoose said. 
AP's review identified roughly four dozen lawmakers who hired family members for their cam­paign or political groups, from Connecticut Sen. and former presidential candidate .Joe Lieberman to a House member from Utah who paid three of his seven children for campaign work. 
"I think anytime someone docs it they have to be ready and will­ing to explain what the relative does and justify the salary," said Larry Noble, head of the Center for Responsive Politics. a Washington-based campaign finance watchdog group. 
"I think when you start putting a whole family on the payroll and start putting kids on the payroll, the scrutiny may increase," Noble added. "It's a form of self-dealing and anytimo you're involved with self-dealing, questions are going to be raised." 
A smaller number of lawmak­ers have relatives on their eon­gressional stalls. 
Arlene Willis, the wife of Hop. 
.Jerry Lewis, a 14-torm lawmak­er from California, st~rves as his chief' of stall' at a salary of' nearly $11 1,000. It's allowed because Willis was Lewis' top aide when he earne to Washington in 1979, before they were married: under House rules, lawmakers cannot hirn their spouses. 
Liebennan's presidential cam­paign paid tlw senator's wif'o, lladassah, at least $22,000. records show. llis son Matthew received about $34,000 and his daughter Hnbneea about $36,000. 
Sherry Brown, who was the presidential campaign's ehinf' of staff. said the Lieberman chil­dren were paid on par with other stall' members doing fund­raising work. Paynwnts to lladassah Lieberman worn for reimbursement of expenses, Brown said. 
Lieberman wasn't tho only one in tho prnsidontial race with a rnlative on tho campaign payroll. Vice President lliek Cheney's daughter Mary was paid about $S1,000 by the Bush-Choney re­election campaign. 
Laurie Stupak, wife or Hnp. Bart Stupak, 1>-Mieh., said she has earned about $3(>,000 annu­ally during thn past two years as the finance director lilr lwr hus­band's campaign. 
She said she was paid slightly more -nearly $3,900 a month -for part of last year because she sorved as both campaign manager and linaneo director. She also reeeivnd an election bonus of' $2,500 last Novembnr. 
The money was earned by working morn than 40 hours a week and traveling long hours on weekends in a sprawling dis­trict, she said. 
California Hepublican Hop. Elton Gallogly's wife, .Janice, has run his campaigns since hn was a mayor, continuing in that role since he first ran successfully for Congress in 19H6. 
She did the work lilr frnn until last year, when she began taking payment of about $2,600 a month after deciding she'd like moro financial independence, Gallegly said in an intnrview. 
"I think that it's important that she have a little more indnpnnd­ence and not feel like sho has to depend on me if' she needs a cou­ple hundred dollars or if' she wants to buy somnthing," he said. 
Other spouses got raises, too. 
For instance, Hop. Fortney "Pete" Stark's wife, Dnborah, received a monthly increase from $650 to $2,400 as a cam­paign consultant thrnn years ago -around the time the eoupln had twins. 
At the time, Stark, 1>-Calif., said his wifn lillt~d the roles of campaign manager. oflien man­ager and bookkeeper. "My posi­tion is, she's a bargain." lw said. 

Cosimo's Hair Salon 
Specializing in great haircuts, Expert color and highlighting. Student discounts now available. (Shampoo, Haircut, & Style) For Men-$20 For Women-$30 
-~----------~-----------------------------------------~--------­
Tl···IE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 10 
Thursday, April 14, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
'!'he Jndqmuknt, Daily NewspAper &rv;ng Notre Da,.~ nnd SnJnt Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 .024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil' PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERALlNFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsncws.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managjng Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and departmenr editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regllrding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i~ published Monday through Friday dC<:ept dudng exam .md va~tion periods. Asubscription mThc Obsetvet is $100 tOr one Jcadcrnic year~ $55 for one .remestcr. 
The Observer is published Rt: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall S~d "ddre!>'.'l corr«:ticins to; Notre Dame, IN 46516-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid ar Notre Dame ro. Box779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
None Dame, !N 46556-0770 
The OllM'rver ii a memher of tht: Associ:ucd Pre!ilo, All rcproductinn rights are rcsttved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Nicole .Zook Matt Puglisi Karen Langley Ann Loughery Jen Rowley Matthew Viewpoint Wormington 
Caroline Murphy Scene Graphics Maria Smith Graham Ebetsch illustrator Katie Knorr 

Back to the garden 
At the heart of the campus of Princeton University -where I once spent a year working on my celebrated impression of a graduate student ­there is a courtyard, and at its center there is a sculpture donated by the Class Peter Wicks of 1969 in honor of its 25th Reunion. Englishman 
A little taller than a Abroad table and cylindrical in shape, it is carved so that its top sur­face displays a Yin and Yang symbol. Inscribed on the surface are the final lines from the Joni Mitchell song "Woodstock": · 
"We are stardust I Billion year-old carbon I We are golden I Caught in the Devil's bargain I And we've got to get ourselves I Back to the Garden." 
When I first came across the sculp­ture, it was something of a shock. What surprised me was not that the class of 1969 had been caught up in the spirit of the counterculture, with its fascina­tion with Eastern mysticism and its longing to shrug off society and return to lives of prelapsarian simplicity. 
The surprise was rather the fact that 25 years later, that same class, at an age at which many of them had chil­dren in college, had chosen a monu­ment that was such an unequivocal endorsement of that spirit. 
The year of the class of 1969's 25th reunion was also the year of the sec­ond Woodstock. With Arlo Guthrie and Janis Joplin replaced by Metallica and Nine Inch Nails, it was unclear in just what sense this could be regarded as the successor to the original "Aquarian exposition" of pflace and music. 
Many were appalled by its commer­cialism, which they felt was a betrayal of the Woodstock legacy. 
Those of a more cynical disposition pointed out that the original Woodstock had itself been a commercial venture, funded by young venture capitalists, including John Roberts, heir to a drug store and toothpaste fortune. 
Many of the bands who came were paid well above their usual fee, and thus the festival was far from the spon­taneous concert as which it had been 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
OBSERVER POLL 
What do you think of insideND? 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
heavily promoted throughout the previ­ous year. 
These critiques were all true, but they missed the point. What made thfl original Woodstock festival differflnt from its titular sequel wasn't that it was untouched by commercialism, but that those who were present were real­ly able to believe themselves part of a revolution that would change the world. 
When the number of gatecrashers became overwhelming, Woodstock was declared a "free concert," and it felt like an act of communal grace. When the same thing happened at the second Woodstock, it was impossible not to recognize this as a mere simulation of spontaneity. 
When I think of the hippie movement, I always remember a particular moment from the Woodstock festival. It is Sunday. and a storm has kicked up. On the main stage, one of the organiz­ers grabs a microphone and tells all the concert-goers to keep on one side of the stage so that if the enormous speaker towers are blown over, no one will be hurt. But maybe, he continues, if everyone wishes for it hard enough, the rain will stop. 
Immediately, we see the view from the stage and there are hippies as far as the eye can see. They all begin to chant in unison "No rain, no rain." 
My fascination with the sixties began when I saw this moment, preserved on the concert film. Partly, I liked it because it made me laugh, perfectly encapsulating the ridiculousness of the movement. 
But, less obviously, it was moving to see people who really believed that they could not only turn society upside down but also suspend the laws of nature through the sheer force oftheir good will. 
I envy their extraordinary capacity for belief. I can't believe what they believed; sometimes I find it hard to believe that they believed it -but they really did. They believed incredible, absurd, and wildly incomprehensible things. 
But above all, they believed in love. 

ISubmit aLetter 
tl l"'· t,h··a "'dl~t·or·fi lt·
I .U ' .·· .t' llW ·.· /..' g ' I•1 www.Adsmeebserver.eem
... ' . ' . . 
Name your problem, and love would solve it. Do you think there can be no community without rules? No my friend, all you need is love. 
After the terrorist attacks of September 11th, Richard Gere publicly opined that he was worried about the terrorists because of "the negativity of this karma" and the bad consequences it would have on the hijaekers' future lives. Shirley MacLaine offered the pre­scription, "Melt their weapons, melt their hearts, melt their anger with love." And Alice Walker rejoined, "I firmly believe the only punishment that works is love." 
Many found these remarks obseene, but I thought they were merely pitiable: the politics of Eden, starkly revealed in their absolute inadequacy. 

A popular myth of our time is that it is the prerogativfl of artists to speak truth to power. 
But what Gere, MacLaine and Walker revealed is that artists (I use the term loosely), lacking both power and the responsibilities that accompany it, more frequently become refugees from reality. 
Far from being prophetic, their pro­nouncements are merely glib state­ments of whatever it is that they cur­rently lind agreeable to believe. 
The hippies' mistake-one they share with other, apparently ver.y dif­ferent movements -is that they could never acknowledge Original Sin (which Chesterton said was the only part of Christian theology that can be proved). The politics of Eden are workable only for those untainted by selfishness and pride; they are politics for angels, not men. 
There is no getting back to garden. We don't belong there. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in the Philosophy Department. He can be contacted at pwicks@nd. edu. Tonight Peter will be performing in the final student stand-up comedy show of the academic year at Legends. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Absence is to love what wind is to fire; it extinguishes the small, it enkindles the great." 
Comte DeBussy-Rabutin French author 



THE 0HSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Thursday, April 14, 2005 page II 
My dad, Mark Twain and I won't go 
I havn known the pangs of loneliness that eonw with being forced from your warm, safn horne out into tho cold, n~motn sedus ion of the baek-porch. 
l'vn felt the desolation of tho outsidnr, 
spurned by thn vast Bob Masters majority of those whom I (~omn into contact with, I Fall on the tlwir disgust and dis­Hoorandl plnasurn for mn ftwlnd Laughing by tlwir sighting of my rmrsonal version of the mark of Cain. 
I havn bnnn asknd to leave restaurants, bars. basnball games and picnics. I've stood by rnysnlf outside in the rain and snow-clutching, with a shudder, my umbrnlla and securing, with a shako, my hat-oblignd to bn in the elements for lack of a morn woleoming place to eall home. 
1\vnn friends and roommates have shut their doors on me, have slarnmnd thnir windows in my face and have rogisternd tlwir disdain for me and my deeds in not-so-subtle exhortations. 
All of these sull'erings result from a choien I have made in my lil'e. It's a deci­sion I consider fundamental to who I am and how I understand myself, but it's also one that places me in contempt of most of you -you who have so fre­qunntly madn the opposite, eonflicting choien as mine. 
And, as I'vn learrwd the hard way, tlwre is no middle ground upon which we might comfortably meet. No, we have c.lwsPn our camps, picked our sides, and thPrn's no love lost by you for mo. 
Brutn, monster. swine, miscrnant, moral dngnnnratn: they're all appella-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Our own great society 
Our gnrwration, while only beginning to make an impact on tlw world, has an. opportunity to leave a h~gacy that will impad sodnty long al'tnr we are gone. This lngacy can lw a rnformed Social Security systn111 that truly sncurns tho futuro of all gorwrations. 
Wo must. mako our voieos heard and ensurn that politicians rornembnr that the fut.urn of this nation is morn important than pow(~rful spnrial internsts opposnd to rnform. 
This dnhatn should not bn partisan. It is a gnrwralional issun and it is necessary to act, not as I>mnocrats or Hnpublicans, but as Arnnricans in our pursuit of a strengthened Soria! Security system. It does not matter whnro your ideological loyalty lies: the Social Sncurity crisis is happening now, afToeting all of us, regardless of creed, gen­der or raco. We can all stand up and be hoard or let the politidans decide our futuro for us. 
Many college students arc entirely unaware of the importance and timeliness of Social Security reform. The longer we wait to act, the greater the eost. Just 12 years from now, the Social Security system will begin giving out more money than it takes in with payroll taxes. 
This means that Social Security will need to dip into the "trust fund," which is actual­ly a filing cabinet eontaining only IOUs that the government owes to itself, or more pre­cisely, an accounting mechanism. 
To finance the repaying of these lOUs to itself, the government will need to either raisn payroll taxes by 50 percent or cut benefits by 25 percent. Either of these options will hurt our economy, and esti­mates are that they can only sustain the current system for about seven additional years, or what would be 20 years from now. 
The facts about Social Security suggest that our generation must advocate for Personal Hctirement Accounts (PRAs). This voluntary program would be gradually introduced, with workers having the option tions that haV!l been levied upon me. But, despite your dismissals, I do have Those names at least are printable allies. Many of us have met, ironically, beforo a polite audience. I've been called only because of our forced isolation. On worse, I assure you. friendless walks around the lakes or 
Appeals suggesting a straighten-up quads I've discovered compatriots who and fly-right conversion have been share my sense of rejection and dis-made to me by concernnd indi­~---placement-while also shar­
viduals who still feel I'm worthy enough a crea­ture in which to invest a glimmer of hope. 
I've been urged to corred myself, informed it's never too late to light out upon a new way and leave my old trappings behind. "Think of the example you're setting," I'm told. "Think of the public health at least­do you realize how much you and. your ilk cost society every year'?" . 
When I refuse to relent, my morals are called into question. I'm certain when many of you have seen me around campus doing the very thing I'm so often eriti­ciznd for, I must have looked in your oyes, with apologies to W.B. Yeats, like some rough beast-his sinful and nau­seating hour eorne round at last­slouching toward the Dominiean Hopublic to be born. 
of putting a portion of their previous Social Security tax into a private account, invested safely in indexes that would bring greater returns and prevent the government from "borrowing" the money as is done with the "trust fund." The money in the account would be combined with traditional Social Security to creato bettor retiremont living, imd the money in the personal account is guaranteed to be yours. Even if a person dies young, the money will go to whomever it is willed to, unlike with the current sys­tem. 
The new system will encourage economic growth because of,increased investment. This is the foundation of an ownership soci­ety in whkh everyone is given a stake in the future. 
All workers will have a reason to seek a greater preservation of our nation. By own­ing a piece of society through investments, building for the future becomes a greater focus in life. 
Over the next few years, all of us will be entering the workforce, with a portion of our paychecks going to Social Security. To guarantee that our money is returned to us when we retire, we must have personal aecounts. 
We have an opportunity-and an obliga­tion-to preserve Social Security for the future generations of Americans. It is soci­ety's duty to ensure a decent life to the eld­erly, who worked hard in their earlier years to sustain society for future generations. 
We must also work hard to preserve a society that does not burden future genera­tions with the poor planning of earlier gen­erations. We must act now to preserve the goals of those who created the system and to tailor the system to meet today's needs. Through this effort, we truly will mold our own "Great Society." 
Shawn McCoy Campus Leader Students for Saving Social Security April13 
ing my vice. Not to give away his cover, but a dear col­
laborator of mine happens to be a fel­low Viewpoint colum11ist. Like Christians 
of old, we con­struct a secret language by which to identi­fy ourselves. "Do you have a cutter?" one of us might ask 
another, in hopes of hearing a response inquiring "straight or punch?" These words are gibberish to the uninitiated, but they identify a sympa­thetic soul to one who shares his lot. 
I was taught to be the way I am by my father, who learned fromhis. We're multi-generational rebels, thumbing our nose at the Puritans-come-lately of' our respective generations by reveling in our transgression of choice. I know the con­sequences of' my decision, and I've 
Other majors work hard too 
After reading Kate Cales' defnnse of the business m<~jor, I must ask whnrn she fiJUnd the time to write to The Obsnrvcr'? I low can one even find a moment to eat, let alone write an article, wlwn thorn are numbnrs to nntnr into formulas, fake producl<; to advnrtisn and inli1rmation systnms to rnanagp'? 
From what I can gather as a lowly math major, most business dassns aro comprised of 3 or 4 weeks of lectures and thnn a test. Obviously then, nvery f(Jw weeks a eertain amount of stress is expneted and all-nighters warrantnd. 
Ilowever, I have never known a fellow math major to spnnd Friday or Saturday night studying, as Ga1es offnrs as proof of a business rm~jor's bur­densome workload. Perhaps business is indend morn ehallnnging than matlw­matics ... or maybe time managnment should be indudnd into the business currieulum. 
Gales reiterates her argument in extolling that she has "morn exams and projects" than her pro-profi~ssional roommatn. I <L'>k, does this nncnssarily imply more work, or morn time spent on this work? I evnn oiler the sugges­tion that much of a business major's workload is eomprisnd of' busywork that only requinls hours of monotonous efli1rt. 
As proof, l offer up any eomputcr lab the night before a business proje('.t is due. It is literally filled with students copying IITML code from a book, copy­ing formulas from a book, or ereating a spreadshent with dirnetions found in a book. 
And don't think we don't notice that while one pnrson is copying infiJrma­tion into the computer from a book, the other three bl'foup membnrs arn talk­ing to another group about how they are strnssed out and n11ed a break from all this work ... work like learning how to read the newspaper, make web­pages and sign paychecks, as Ga1es tells us. 
Finally, I did not understand the purpose of the parabrraph telling us we will probably work for business majors one day and that the University would crumble without them. Without debating the truth of this statement, you arn asking that, because I will work for you later, I .tlould forgo alllogieal thought and believe you do substantial amounl'> of work all year long'? 
Personally, my problem with the business school is not necessarily the amount of work completed but rather the type of work expeeted. Business L'i essentially a trade. Most business majors are getting a business degree to enter the business world and make money. They learn to take numbers and put them into the correct "debit" or "credit" columns. 
You could essentially train a monkey to do thL'i. English majors don't leave doing English. Math majors don't leave doing math. In fact, the majority of' non-Business majors do not leave Notre Dame with a trade. 
Rather, they leave with a liberal arts education that prepares thnm to think critically about worldly issues and prepares them for a plethora of jobs, including the business world. 
Leaving Notre Dame with an education and not a trade found at a teehnieal school? Fine by me. 
Eric Staron junior Dillon Hall Aprill3 
acutely felt the ramilications of it already at age 22. But like Caesar (Toss­ing the Hubieon, I'm not looking back. Don't cry for me. I know who I am. I am a cigar smoker. 
The life of a pariah forcnd upon thoso of us who choose to partake in finn tobacco, to my mind, is a small prieo to pay for the pleasure one linds in a good smoke. Contrary to popular myth, we don't do it for the nicotine, nor to satn some overpowering addietion~ 
Enjoying a cigar is like a secular sacrament. My thoughts arn nlevated toward something higher, a peaceful darity of mind takes over, and the burn­ing ash of my smoke, rising like sweet incense, brings me into a contmnplative mood. For me as well. a sharnd cigar is a very real connection I have with my father, and something I find especially valuable as I prepare to loave home in the coming days after graduation. 
Mark Twain once wrote that if lw couldn't smoke in Iloaven, he just wouldn't go. With respeet to Mr. Clemens, I feel he's mistaken. Cigar­friendly or not, there's no rnason to con­cern ourselves with some future Paradise. It's simpler than that. As any cigar smoker can tell you, give us a pnr­fect hand-rolled puro plus a match, and we'll calllleavnn right down here to earth. 
Rob Masters is a senior Hnglislz major. lie can he contacted at amasters@'rui. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ciftlw author and not necessarily those r~(The Observer. 

~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Thursday, April 14, 2005 
--_-­

rso,_--_ ·-·-.--· --n-­
__ --··. 

. ":. . . . : 
. -. . . . . '
Erne 

et 
• 1
pa,l th, ·. e .gnton 

olding a career that 
H 
spans over a quarter of a 
century, the Emerson 
String Quartet has gained 
mass appeal for both its 
groundbreaking work in chamber music and its recording partner­ship with Deutsche Grammophon. Under Grammophon's license, the group has won six Grammy Awards, including hon­ors for "Best Classical Album" and three Grammophon Magazine Awards. 
The Emerson String Quartet comes to the Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Saturday at 8 p.m. 
The Emerson Quartet's breakthrough on a national scale happened in 1989 through the performance of six Bela Bartok quartets in il'> Carnegie Hall debut. A recording of these quartets won both the Grammy Award for "Best Classical Album" and the Grammophon Magazine Album for "Record of the Year." Thus, the Emerson Quartet set a new precedent in each of these award groups by becoming the first chamber music group to receive such honors. 
Other high-profile recordings from the Emerson Quartet include a seven-disc boxed set of the complete Beet quartets in 1997; a live recording in 2000 of Shostakovich quartets at the Aspen Music Festival, which also won a Grammy; and the Emerson Encores, a compilation of quartets including composers such as Charles lves, Samuel Barber, Robert Schumann and Anton Dvorak. In 2004, they also engaged in sacred music via Haydn's Seven Last Words of Christ and Bach's Art of the Fugue, both of which have been recorded through Grammophon. 
Much like previous PAC performers this year --such as the King's Singers and, of course, the New York Philharmonic --the Emerson Quartet has been committed to the commissioning and performance of numerous new works from such com­posers as Andre Previn, Ellen Taaffe Zwillich, Ned Rorem and Edgar Meyer. 

The quartet is comprised of violinists Eugene Drucker and Philip Setzer, violist Lawrence Dutton and cellist David Finckel. The musicians base themselves in New York City. They take their name from the American Transcendentalist Ralph Waldo Emerson, and bearing in mind their namesake, they perform fre­quently at benefit concerts for causes including nuclear disarmament, AIDS and children's diseases. Among their acco­lades for their humanitarian efforts is a Smithson award from the Smithsonian Institute. 
Recent activity for the group includes a four-concert series at Carnegie Hall enti~ tied "A Vision of Mendelssohn," which explored not only works by Mendelssohn but also entwined Bach, Beethoven and Schubert. 
The tour stop at Notre Dame adds to a worldwide presence Emerson has exerted throughout its tenure. Besides its frequent presence at Carnegie Hall (and also the Smithsonian Institute in Washington, D.C.) the group has traveled to France, Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Spain and Belgium. 
For Saturday's performance, the Emerson Quartet will perform Mozart's Quartet in G, K. 387, Shostakovich's String Quartet No. 2 and Beethoven's Op. 131. 
In addition to Saturd_ay evening's con­cert, the Emerson Quartet is also giving a master class for campus musicians at 2 
p.m. earlier in the day. 

The Emerson String Quartet will per­form Saturday at 8 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall. Tickets for the concert are $35 for adults, $28 for faculty/staff, $26 for seniors and $15for all students. 
Contact Brandon Hollihan at bholliha@nd.edu 

--~------------------------~~---­
Thursday, April 14, 2005 




CENE 
page 13 

Student singers shine in 'A Night on Broadway' 
Pasquerilla East Musical Company's fourth annual Musical Revue showcases songs and dance in musical numbers from 'RENT,' 'Chicago,' 'Les Miserables,' 'Guys and Dolls' and other favorites 
By MARIA SMITH Senior Stafl"Writrr 
Over the past three years, the Pasquerilla East Musical Company's Musical Hevue. entitled "A Night on Broadway," has become something to look forward to for many students on campus. 
Tlw first Musical Hevuc was held when current seniors were freshmen, and as the students have aged the Hevu1~ has also matured. Attendance has incn~ased steadily as the Hevue has hncorne a more n~eognizable part of campus life. Tlw first H1wuc didn't even s1dl out its sPats for two nights, but this yPar. tlw Company has had to add an l'Xtra pnformann~ to meet demand. 
In tlw past. the Hevue has featured many of the most talented perfornwrs on campus and has given students a chance to show off their dancing, singing 11nd acting skills. This year is no dii'I'Prl'nl -the Hevue showcases much of tho talnnt the campus has to oi'I'Pr. 
This year's HI~Vlll', lih thosn of the pas t tine e y n a r s . is a Is o s e t u p i n tiH~nwd segments. which are intro­duced with appropriatn quotes from various shows. llownver, this year's show focuses more on solos and seri­lHIS performances than the past two years. Tlw change has brought some stn~ngths. and also a few weaknesses, to this year's (H'rformance. 
Tlw vocal talent in this year's show is particularly strong. Sophomore Will McAuliffe and sophomore Tim Mast1~rton. who played a lead role in tlw Company's (Wrformance of "Grand Hotel" earlil'l' this spring, are both impressivP singers who will hopefully continue to pt~rform with tlw Company for tlw rwxt two years. Seniors Matt Patrieoski and Tom Anthony and Saint Mary's student Megan Welsch perform "Louder Than Words" from "tick, tick ... BOOM!" with a powerful blend of v1~ry powerful voices. 
Several performers also have excel­IPnt character voices. Freshman Kathleen Sullivan is cute and quirky pnforming "Summer in Ohio" from "The Last Fivo Years," and froshman Holwrt DeBroeck's strong bass is per-


feet for "C'est Moi" from "Camelot." 
llowever. a good show needs to bal­ance sentiment with some shtick, and this year's show just doesn't have the grnat shtick that its predecessors did. 
That doesn't mean there isn't any joking around. "We Both Beached For the Gun" from "Chicago," performed by Joe Garlock, Jacqui Acuna and four other cast members, stands out as the number with the most style. "Is You Is, Or Is You Ain't" from "Five Guys Named Moe" is performed by six guys from tho cast, none of whom are named Moe, and the song certainly has some character. 
Dance numbers are always a high point of the show. "You Can't Stop the Beat" from "Jiairspray" and "Forget About the Boy" from "Thoroughly Modern Millie," the major dance num­bers from this year's dance perform­ance, are cert'ainly entertaining. In past years dance was a more promi­
nent part of the show, and a few more of this type of number would help to break up the pace of the performance. 
This year's Musical Hevue marks the end of several careers in Notre Dame musical theater. Seniors Hamin Saghafi, Brian Grundy and Matt Curtin, as well as Patricoski and Anthony, have been institutions of the Company for four years. All have not only performed in the shows but also kept them run­ning. Curtin is the director for this year's Hevue, Grundy directed the show during his sophomore year, and Patricoski and Anthony produced the show during their junior year. Their graduation will be a notable loss to the PEMCo. stage. 
The opening number for the 2001 Musical Hevue was "Heart and Music" from "A New Brain." "I Feel So Much Spring," this year's closing number, is also from "A New Brain," and provides a nice closing point for the seniors' 
Notre Dame careers. 
What will the alumni do with them­
selves after leaving the Company 
behind? 
"J hope we'll all find some way to 
keep performing," Anthony said. 
"Singing telegrams," Saghafi suggest­
ed. 
On the other hand. there are the alumni who never left. Notre Dame stu­dents may graduate, but some of them never leave, and the Musical Hnvue seems to have its own hold on its grad­uates. This year's show features a per­formance of "I Wish I Could Go Back to College" from "Avenue Q," pPrformnd by eight PEMCo. Alumni, including for­mer Musical Hevue director Shawna Monson and the vnritable Mr. I'EMCo. Tommy Curtin, who performed with tlw Company for live years before graduat­ing and enrolling in Notre Dame Law School. All the choreography in the number is taken from past pnrf'ormanc­
es. 
"I always listennd to that song and got sad," said Monson, who organiwd the alurnn.i pe1·1'ormancn. "Tiwn I thought, there are so many alumni around, I should try to put together a number. Evnryonn except one p1~rson I emailed was exeitnd about it." 
"It's great. now that I've graduated my little brother gets to boss nw around," said Tommy Curtin. who is also the older brother of Matt Curtin. 
If the y() u n g () r nwm be r s 0 f t h (' Company keep up the trnnd. I'EMCo. will continue to producn loyal alumni for years. With any luck, tho Musical Revue will also remain a strong tradi­tion. 
"This show is great because unlike the lttrger shows. you can b1~ in it and don't have to commit your lif'n to it," Matt Curtin said. "My goal was to showcase a lot of talent, and that's what this show docs." 

"A Night on Broadway" wilt be per­formed Thursday, Friday and .'·iaturday at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune /Jallroom. Tickets cost $5 for students and $6 for general admission and are available at the LaFortune Box Office and al llze door. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 


TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer 

Tim Masterton left and Tom Anthony perform "What You Own" from the hit Megan Welsch performs "Not For the Life of Me" from "Thoroughly Modern musical "RENT:" Both actors played lead roles In "Grand Hotel" In February. Millie." Welsch Is one of the few Saint Mary's students performing In the show. 
,.....---------­
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 14 
Thursday, April 14, 2005 
'Arcadia' looks creatively at human nature 
FTT production examines the irrational side of human emotions, the pursuit of history and asks whether math and science are really all they're cracked up to be 
poetry to architecture to algorithms to By CHRISTIE BOLSEN literary scandal concerning Lord Byron, Senior SraffWrirer with several of these themes merged in 
unexpected ways. One never knows what might happen. For instance, there's one scene in "Arcadia," which opened at the which Valentine, a postgraduate mathe­
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on matician, is trying to explain iterated April 12 and ends on April 23, sets out to algorithms to author and historian 
demonstrate the unpre- Hannah. In doing so,  
dictable and chaotic nature  he is actually attempt­ 
of humanity while explor­ ing to say that he is  
ing themes of science, art, history and other disci­plines. Tom Stoppard, author of the farcical play,  "We hope that we have not only portrayed the drama as compellingly  desperately in love with her, and he's try­ing to make her feel close to him by reveal­ 
also has Tony Award-win­ners among his body of work, including  as possible, but also humorously.,,  ing himself in the only way he knows how. "Tom Stoppard is  
"Rosencrantz  and  very clever and very  
Guildenstern Are Dead,"  Jay Skelton  funny," Skelton said.  
"The  Real  Thing"  and  director  "We hope that we have  
"Travesties."  not only portrayed the  
The intricate plot alter­ drama as compellingly  
nates between the years  as possible, but also  

1809, 1812 and 2005, with the charac­humorously." ters in 2005 trying to piece together Skelton said much of the error of the clues about what happened in 1809 on a present-day characters' assessments of particular weekend. According to award­the past stems from their neglecting the winning director Jay Paul Skelton, part random nature of people. As they sort of the fun for the audience is when char­through books, letters and other items acters mistakenly judge what happened they find in the country house's library, in the 19th century. cupboards and drawers, they try to put 
Topics included in the play range from their clues together too systematically. 


"We'd like to predict the world with Excellence in the Arts, the department of math and science," Skelton said. "But we physics, First Year of Studies, School of have to take into account the unpre.­Architecture and an anonymous benefac­dictability of the passions and desires of tor. people." The themes of "Arcadia" will also be 
He said part of Stoppard's appeal is his the focus of an academic conference tendency to include emotions in order to entitled "Arcadia at Notre Dame ­
ground many of the  Nature, Science, and  
bigger esoteric ideas  Art  Confurence"  on  
in  his  plays.  The  April 22 and 23 hosted  
emotional aspect of how people fall in love with people they're not supposed  "We'd like to predict the world with math and science. But we have to  by the McKenna Center for Continuing Education, sponsored by the College of Arts  
to, for instance, is  take into account the  and Letters, College of  
certainly an experi­ence that should res­onate with most of  unpredictability ofthe passions and desires of  Science, Graduate School and the Arts and Letters and Science  
the audience.  people.,  Honors Program.  
Skelton said one of  
the most important themes is "the jour­ney that many peo­ Jay Skelton director  Arcadia will be shown Thursday through Saturday and Tuesday,  
ple believe the world  April  19  through  
is taking from order  Saturday, April 23 at  

to disorder." This theme about the disor­7:30 p.m. and Sunday, April 17 at 2:30 derly conduct of human beings is one of p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theater. the end results of much discussion about Tickets cost $8 for students, $10 for fac­seemingly unrelated subjects. ulty, staff and seniors and $12 for the 
The multifaceted production is appro­general public. priately supported by a range of groups ­The Arts and Letters and Science Honors Contact Christie Boisen at Program, the Boehnen Fund for cbolsen@nd.edu 

NDTV' s 'The Mike Peterson Show' showcases campus talent 
By LIZ BYRUM Scene Writer 
Tomorrow night, something will grace the main stage of Washington Hall that has never been seen before a£ this University -a live sketch comedy show created entirely by Notre Dame students. "The Mike Peterson Show" is in its first season on the school's cable access station and will be presenting its Year-End Spectacular Friday evening at 7 p.m. 
NDTV, Notre Dame's television sta­tion, was built from the ground up just three years ago. In the beginning, it was a small group of students who worked to air one show every two weeks. Today, the channel has expand­ed to include two weekly shows, includ­ing "The Mike Peterson Show" and a news program. More than 60 students from a variety of schools and majors within Notre Dame run the station. 
"The Mike Peterson Show" began when Adam Fairholm, the co-creator and executive producer, had an idea to ' expand the comedy skits in NDTV's original program into something resembling his own version of a late . night talk show. With inspiration from famous shows such as "Saturday Night Live" and "Late Night with Conan O'Brien," Fairholm and Peterson formed their plan. They wanted to form a new sort of institution on the campus of Notre Dame, and create a buzz around it. Since the show first aired at the beginning of this semester, six episodes have been created. 
Besides Peterson himself, who plays many roles including host, writer, director and editor, 25 other members of NDTV have been hard at work on this one episode alone. This includes a large group of writers, the executive producer, three camera operators, sound and video operators and many others. Peterson had been the comedy producer before the show was created and was consequently chosen to host the newly-created show. 

"We have a blast doing it, and I think it really shows through," Peterson said. 
Guests for the Friday special include Sergeant Tim McCarthy, the famous pun announcer from Notre Dame foot­ball games, and Jeff Stephens, the tal­ented rapper who makes his home in Keenan Hall. Peterson also promises a Jive house band, much like Conan O'Brien's "Max Weinberg 7." 
"The show will consist of sketch com­edy, as well as live bits that will go on throughout the course of the show, so you never know what is going to hap­pen," Peterson said when asked about the content of Friday's show. 
"The Mike Peterson Show Year-End Spectacular" is a great event to show­case the creative talent of Notre Dame's students. For those students who want to catch up on what's already happened, re-runs of previous episodes can be viewed on NDTV on any television with cable on campus or at the station's website, www.NDTV.net. 
"This is something new for ND, some­thing you've probably never seen before," Peterson said. "It's definitely a low risk show. The tickets are free, so you should get more than what you paid for." 
"The Mike Peterson Show Year-End Spectacular" will begin Friday at 7 
p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets for the show are available at the LaFortune Box Office. 
Contact Liz Byrum at ebyrum@nd.edu 
Thursday, April 14, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 


GUEST ARTISTS 
ALTAN Friday April 15 .at 8 pm Tickets $35, $28 faculty/staff, $26 seniors, $1.5 all students 
EMERSON STRING QUARTET Saturday April 16 at 8 pm Tickets $35, $28 faculty/staff, $26 seniors, $15 all students 
ROBERT BATES ORGAN CONCERTS Sunday April 24 at 4 pm and 8 pm $10 general public, $8 faculty/staff, $6 seniors, $3 all students 

THEATRE 
ARCADIA by Tom Stoppard Tuesday April 12 through Saturday April 23 (see website for time details) Tickets: $12, $10 faculty/staff, $10 seniors, $8 all students 

MUSIC 
ND COLLEGIUM MUSICUM Thursday April 14 at 8 pm Free and open to the public; tickets required 
ND PERCUSSION ENSEMBLE Wednesday April 20 at 7:30pm Free and open to the public; tickets required 
NOTRE DAME SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA Friday April 22 at 8 pm Tickets: $6, $5 faculty/staff, $3 all students 
ND UNIVERSITY BAND AND BRASS ENSEMBLE Sunday April 24 at 3 pm Free and open to the public; tickets required 
THE NOTRE DAME JAZZ BANDS Sunday April 24 at 7:30pm Free and open to the public; tickets required 
ND SYMPHONIC BAND AND SYMPHONIC WINDS Monday April 25 at 7:30pm Free and open to the public; tickets required 
THE NOTRE DAME CHORALE AND CHAMBER ORCHESTRA Friday April 29 at 8 pm Free and open to the public; tickets required 

DANCE 
AN EVENING WITH JEAN BUTLER An Illustrated Talk on Irish Dance Thursday April 14 at 8 pm Tickets: $5 
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY Presented by Southold Dance Theater Tickets: $25, $19 seniors, $12 all students Friday April29 at 7:30pm Saturday April 30 at 2 and 7:30pm 

SPECIAL EVENT 
GO RED FOR WOMEN An Evening of Fun and Heart Education Tuesday May 3 from 5-8 pm Tickets: $25
BROWNING ( I N E M A 
This series is part of the Keough Institute's "Ireland Beyond Borders" conference. Admission to these films is free. 
FOUR DAYS IN JULY 
Thursday April 14 at 7 pm 
THE LAST OF THE HIGH KINGS 
Thursday April 14 at 1 0 pm 
BLACK DAY AT BLACKROCK 
Friday April 15 at 4 pm 
BAD BEHAVIOUR 
Friday April 15 at 7 pm 
YU MING IS AINM DOM 
Friday April 15 at 1 0 pm 
RORY O'SHEA WAS HERE 
Friday April 15 at 1 0: 15 pm 
. REBEL FRONTIER 
Saturday April 16 at 1 pm 
ROCKY ROAD TO DUBLIN 
Saturday April 16 at 4 pm 
THE MAPMAKER 
Saturday April 16 at 7 pm 
DEAD BODIES 
Saturday April 16 at 10 pm 
Thursday, April 14, 2005 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXIV 


Illegitimate Children top Chico's Bail Bonds 
Beau Martin of The French By ANNIE BRUSKY AND Connection said. "We started CHRIS KHOREY blocking a lot of shots. [Andrew] Sports Writer Crowe and I had a block party, 
and Fruit of the Loom was invit­

In a close, hard fought battle, ed." five of Shawn Kemp's 42 "We started taking stupid shots Illegitimate Children took advan­and turning the ball over," Fruit tage of their youth and inside-out of the Loom's point guard Matt game in order to beat the No. 27 "Frodo" Haggerty said. "They ranked team of MBA students, were slashing to the basket, just Chico's Bail Bonds, 21-16. slashing. We couldn't stop it." 
Illegitimate Children hung on With a halftime score of 11-6, to an early lead and won in a The French Connection contin­game much closer than indicated ued to use their quickness and by the score. They came out of the experienced brother tandem the game bloodied and bruised of Ty and Beau Martin to prevent but, nevertheless, victorious. Fruit of the Loom from moving 
"That's how we win ... nasty," within five points. Illegitimate Children player Matt Working through the distrac­Paprocki said. tions their opponents provided, 
Illegitimate Children went into including the underwear they halftime with an 11-6 lead, but wore over their shorts, The Chico's Bail Bonds caught them French Connection repeatedly ofT-guard at the beginning of the scored ofT of olTensive rebounds second half with their fast-break and played tough defense, pre­Girls isn't feeling too heartbroken tournament, which takes place up for their speed disadvantage. offense. venting Fruit of the Loom from themselves. this weekend. The team looked "It was the change of defense 
Temporarily unable to hit getting many decent shots off. "We might have lost the game, crisp, employing backdoor cuts that did it," shooting guard and shots, Illegitimate Children "We're looking good," Crowe but we will continue to celebrate and well-timed passes and sys­team captain Jeff Carney said. seemed to be losing steam, and said. "We want to be the first 28 the four pillars of Gunther," Dave tematically breaking down the "We switched over to zone, and their opponents pulled within seed to win it all. I don't think Barden said. Decliners defense. with the night being windy their one point to make the game 12-they've seen five French bailers Captain and point guard outside shooting wasn't very 
11. like us on this campus yet." No. 9 HP 21, We Declined An Andrew White attributed the effective, so the zone worked 
Then Illegitimate Children Invitation To The NIT 1 crisp play to the team's experi­pretty well." stepped up on defense and made CANIWRITECHEque 21 There was no doubt HP ence playing together. Center Butch Taylor gave some key steals. With Obi Idigo Gunther and the Sunshine Girls deserves to be ranked in the top "Me and [shooting guard Mike another explanation for the playing the post position and the 7 ten teams in this year's Knesec] have played together for team's sudden turnaround at other four making shots from Using their height and well­Bookstore Touranment field after all four years," he said. half. outside, Illegitimate Children balanced shooting attack to their Wednesday night's game against Despite the impressive per­"It was the first time we'd were able to achieve the upset advantage, CANIWRITECHEque We Declined An Invitation To The formance and lofty ranking, played together, so we needed a and send the ranked team home dominated the game after jump­NIT. White remained cautious regard­half to get used to each other," early. Fritz Shadley led the way ing to an early lead and finished HP dominated all aspects of the ing his team's chances in the next Taylor said. "If there was a tour­with eight points. with a impressive victory. game en route to a stomping of few rounds of the tournament. nament with three halves, we 
The squad finished the game Gunther and the Sunshine Girls the Decliners, a team made up "Obviously we have big size probably would have done even strong, ·with captain Rick were outplayed as they struggled entirely of Glee Club members. inside, but teams are going to get better." Loesing's behind-the-back pass to make shots and get rebounds. Many members of the all-male bigger and stronger so we're Blazers point guard Mike to Eric Kimbuende winning the They entered halftime in an 11-3 choral group had shaved heads going to have to pick up the Dupuis said poor shooting and a game. hole. in support of fellow musician intensity and hopefully we'll do lack of intensity in the second 
"We fought hard," Loesing CANIWRITECHEque captain Cole Barker, who is suffering well," he said. half contributed to his team's said. "They were tough and tal­John Harrington credited his from cancer. But the Decliners near collapse. ented, but we handled them." team's win to their superb cheer­managed to take only nine shots Blazers 21, We're Training To "It's not like their zone con­
ing section, as well as to "the all game, making just one and Be Cage Fighters 15 fused us," DuPuis said. "It's just The French Connection 21 sheer grit and determination of recording five air balls. The Blazers stepped out on to that we weren't hitting and we Fruit of the Loom 12 Will Jourdan and Mark Frustrated Decliners fans dis­the Bookstore courts Thursday weren't playing the offense we 
Although Fruit of the Loom 'Moneymaker' Munninghoff." agreed on which areas their night expecting to be the more should have. We ean play better came out strong in their under­The team's offense included team needed to improve on most. athletic team in their game than that." wear-inspired costumes, The multiple points from each of their "They need to work on their against We're Training To Be Despite his disappointment in French Connection proved to be members and a solid effort by all. defense and really push the ball," Cage Fighters, and as they built a the second half, Dupuis said too much to handle down low "The freshman stepped it up," lifetime Decliners supporter commanding 11-2 halftime lead, there was no shame in playing a and won the game. Harrington said. "Plus, we have a Catelyn Wood said. it looked as if the game might go close game with the Cage 
Tied 6-6 early in the game, the walk-on!" Superfan Eileen Papesh had a as planned. Fighters. two evenly-matched teams were Freshman Mark Saurer looked different take. The Cage Fighters had other "They could all play," he said. neck-and-neck. Then The French to the team's chemistry as a deci­"They need to stop smoking plans, however. They stormed "But I wish that our intensity had Connection, the No. 28 ranked sive element in its victory. and [point guard] Adam [Istvan] back to within five points in the stayed up and we had played team in the tournament, slowly "We just play well as a team," needs to learn to dribble and second half before finally suc­better." broke away, giving more proof to he said. shoot," she said. cumbing to the quicker Blazers .. the faet that, as they put it, "the CANIWRITECHEque is hoping As for HP, the strong showing The Cage Fighters switched Contact Annie Brusky and Chris French always win." to make a run in the tournament, should give them momentum defenses during the halftime Khorey at abrusky@nd.edu and 
"We just had to warm up," but Gunther and the Sunshine going into the third round of the break, employing a zone to make ckhorey@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 J.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED 
ROADTRIP! 
Need manual 97 VW Cabrio driven 
from Chicago to Seattle. 
Will pay gas & courtesy fee. 
Must arrive by May 25th. 
Call Caro~n 90 (847) 612-1710 or hoorey O@msn.com 
Roommate to share rent for my 2bdrm apt. 570-814-2716 or email: mmurph21 @nd.edu 
RECEPTIONIST/PHOTO ASST. Busy photo studio looking for a motivated, detail oriented reception­ist/photo asst. Computer, phone, customer service experience pre­!erred. Please call Kelly at 259-3262. 
Seeking college student for summer child care for 14& 12 yr old. Call1-9947 or 277·8564 and ask for Lisa. 

FOR SALE 
IRISH CROSSINGS Luxury homes one block east of campus. Now under construction! For more infor­mation: Go to: www.lrishCrossings.com Email: 
lrishCrossings@gmail.com 


FOR RENT 
DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW 
LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUS­ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BED­ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006­2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7­8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEB­SITE WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER 
574-234-2436 OR 574-315·5032. 
Clean homes close to ND. 2-8 bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask about FREE student rent program. Blue & Gold Homes 
(574)250-7653. 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 S.B. AVE -605 ST. PETER 
CALL 532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM 
6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER MONTH+ DEP. STAFF AND FACULTY ONLY. CALL BRUCE 876-3537. 
2,4 & 5 B-Rooms,close to campus, call 234-9923, ask for Rod. 
3 bdrm house, nicely furnished. 417 Napoleon (off ND Ave.) 2 min. from ND. $1100/md. 2 roommates/1 family. Call 299-9428. 

www.andersonNDrentals.com 5-7 BDRMS. $195/PERSON. SUMMER OR 05/06. WASHER/DRYER. 329-0308 
Furn houses on Navarre, Marion & St. Pete Sts. avail 06-07. 233·9947. 
Nice homes close to ND.Great area. All amenities. 
19237 Cleveland 6-7bdrm;202 E. Cripe 4bdrm;222 E.Willow 3bdrm.2773097 
Nice homes close to ND.Great area. All amenities. 
19237 Cleveland 6-7bdrm;202 E. Cripe 4bdrm;222 E.Willow 3bdrm.2773097 
STUDENT RENTALS $400 PER MONTH All utilities, ADT security, phone/cable/DSL, W/D, Lawn serv­ice. 2,3,4,5 bdrms. Avaii.05/06. Call 315-3215 
123 N. ND Ave. 3bd,1.5 ba,off prkg., WID. $1300/mo. Call 229-0149. 
4-5 bdrm,2 bath house in SB. Lots of room. Call Judy 574-298-6217. 
Furnished 1·bdrm apt. Free laundry. No smokers,no pets. On bus route,2 mi to NO. 350+utilities. 289-9365. 
2005-06 $250-300/mo. Furn.rooms. Country setting, 10 mi to ND. Non-smokers. Private entrance,laundry,kitch­enette,cable & util incl. 289-9365. 
3 blks from ND, 318 Pokagon, 3 bd, 3.5 Bath $1450, 7-1-05. Email:pokagon@ hotmail.com 

2&3 bdrm houses close to ND. $350/mo/person.Lawn service & appliances incl. 273-4889. 
PERSONALS 
Gina and Kirsten beat the d-hall system 
"wootwoot" dominic your movie is too funny! 
B-Diss and the rest of the #54/#55 freshman retreat team dominates 
A haiku from one of NO's up-and­coming poets ... wow, this is deep! Oh Sqwrrels You rock To love you is so sweet Don't eat trash squirrels 
who knew room picks would be so crazy1or h-town and w-a-thon? 
"I thought I saw a 50 pound frog in the road, but it was just a paper bag." 
Oh thesaurus. You savesus my buttus When no wordsus Come to my mindsus. 
i'll miss 161 next year! 





OUNDTHE NATION 
Thursday, April 14, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
ITA Tennis Rankings 
MLB 
Men's  
!.Pam  
1  Baylor  
2  Virginia  
3  Mississippi  
4  Illinois  
5  Duke  
6  Florida  
7  UCLA  
8  Pepperdine  
9  Texas Tech  
10  Georgia  
11  Washington  
12  Kentucky  

13 Texas A&M 14 Oklahoma State 15 LSU 16 Stanford 17 South Carolina 18 Tulane 19 Southern Calllornia 20 Mississippi State 21 Texas Corpus-Christi 22 Florida Slate 23 Tennessee Knoxville 24 California 25 Wake Forest 
Women's 
tPam Slanlord 1 Kentucky 2 
Northwestern 3 Southern California 4 Vanderbilt 5 Georgia 6 Florida 7 Georgia Tech 8 Miaml (FL) 9 UCLA 10 Texas 11 Baylor 12 North Carolina 13 Clemson 14 Tulane 15 Duke 16 Harvard 17 William and Mary 18 TCU 19 Tennessee 20 California 21 Washington 22 South Carolina 23 Arizona State 24 Wake Forest 25 


Major League Baseball 
American League East tnam n·rord pen~ . strmtk <;B Toronto 6-2 .750 Won 4 
Baltimore 5-3 .625 Won3 1 NY Yankees 4-4 .500 Won 1 2 Boston 3-5 .375 Lost 1 3 Tampa Bay 3-5 .375 Lost 3 3 
American League Central Lnam r('r.ord pnrc. st.rnak <;B Chicago Sox 6-2 .750 won2 
Minnesota 4-3 .571 Won 2 1.5 Detroit 3-4 .429 Lost2 2.5 Kansas City 3-5 .375 Lost 2 3 Cleveland 3-5 .375 Lost2 3 
American League West !Pam rtH~ord pore·. stnmk GB LA Angels 5·3 .625 Won 2 
Seattle 4·4 .500 Won 2 1 Texas 3·5 .375 Lost 2 2 Oakland 3·5 .375 Lost 2 2 
National League East tPaJll l'Pt:orct pere. st.rnak GB Florida 5·4 .556 Won 2 
Washington 5-4 .556 Won 2 Atlanta 5·4 .556 Lost2 Philadelphia 4·5 .444 Lost 2 1 NY Mets 3·5 .375 Won 3 1.5 
National League Central 1Pam rt•t:ord pt~r<·. stnmk GB Milwaukee 5-3 .625 Won 1 
Houston 4·3 .571 Lost2 .5 Cincinnati 4-4 .500 Won 1 1 Chicago Cubs 4·5 .444 Won 1 1.5 St. Louis 3-4 .429 Lost1 1.5 Pittsburgh 3·6 .333 Lost1 2.5 
National League West IP<tlll rt·cord [Wrl\ streak GB Arizona 6-3 .667 Won 4 
Los Angeles 5·2 .714 Won 1 San Diego 5·4 .556 Lost 1 1 San Francisco 4-3 .571 Lost 1 1 Colorado 1-7 .125 Lost7 4.5 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -As a kid in the 1940s, Bowin Kuhn ran thn haild-opnrat­ed scoreboard for the origi­nal Washington Snnators at now-departed Griff'ith Stadium. As the commis­siorwr ol' Major Longue Basnball dneades lator, tho nativn Washingtonian trind in vain to keep a team in the nation's capital. 
On Thursday night, Kuhn plans to be among tlw 4(,,0()0 or so in the BFK Stadium crowd whnn tlw Nationals make t.lwir honw . dobut against the Arizona Diamondbacks -the dty's first. regular-snason major lnague game sinee Snpt. :{0, 1971. 

"It's a very sentimental thing for me," Kuhn said. "It was just a matter of time bnfore basnball returned." 
The night caps a series of enlnbmtions marking that r<~turn: the l'irst spring training game, an April 3 nxhibition game and dress rnhnarsal at HFK, and the April 4 op<1ning day game at Philadelphia. If this is the last party, it's also the biggPst. with Prnsident Bush slated to throw out the enrnmonial first pitch and more than two hours of prngame l'nstivities rna­turing appnarances by 10 forrnnr Snnators. 
IN BRIEF 
Super Bowl Champion
Patriots visit White House 
WASHINGTON -President Bush welcomed the New England Patriots to the Whitn I louse on Wednesday, a enn1mony that has bneornn a tradi­tion now that thn team has won the Super Bowl during thrne of Bush's four ynars in of1ice. 
"You know, thn eomnwntators would say, 'Well, they're not the llashiest bunch, they're not tho fanci­est bunch,"' the president said during a ceremony in the Hose Garden. "They just happen to be the best team. They're the team that showed that whnn you play together, when you servo something greater than yourself', you win." 
About 30 players attended, includ­ing quarterback Tom Brady and line­baeker Tedy Bruschi, who is recover­ing from a stroke suffered just after he played in the Pro Bowl in February. Bush saluted Bruschi, say­ing, "I congratulate you on showing such incredible courage on the field 

"Evnrybody's looking for­ward to it," pitehnr Zach Day said. "Wn know it's going to bn a long day. but cvnrybody's nxcitnd for tlw day to eonw." 
Washingtonians havn pined for a ballrlub to <~all tlwir own nvnr sinen thn Senators lnf't for· Tnxas 34 years ago. That was thn last timo any major loag-un team switdwd citios. 
This timn, Beltway bas<'­ball fans are tlw lwrwliei­aries of dwindling loeal support for the Montrnal Expos, who worn givPn a new town, a nnw nicknanw and nnw uniforms. But thn rostnr is mostly unehangnd, and tlw Nationals' only rna! hous<'­hold nanw lwlongs to sonworw who won't LISP a bat or glovl' Thursday: Frank Bobinson, a llall of Farnn player who :HI yt>ars ago bnr.anw tlw majors' llrst black nmnagtw. 
Still, tlw Nationals arn tied for nrst iII llw NI. l·:ast al'tnr boating-t.hn At.lant.a Bravos I 1-4 WNirwsday t.o improVt' t.o !i-4, all on tltt• road . 
"This is a happy day for Washington and a vnry sad day for Canada and Mont rPal. Mont.rPal was givnn PV<'ry charw.n, and it's about tinw Washington got its ehanen," Kuhn, 7X, said in a tl'fPphotlt' int.PrViPW." 

and oiT t.lw field. Thnre's a lot ol' poo-· plo that were praying for·you, I know." Daven~ort advances in Family Circle Cup 
CIIAHLESTON, S.C. -Top-ranked Lindsay Davnnport needed just !i!i minutns to advance to tho third round of the Family Circln Cup, bnat­ing Canadian Marie-Eve Pelletier (J-2., 6-2 on Wednesday. 
Davenport is trying to win the Family Circle Cup l'or the first time. ller best finish in the clay-court tour­namnnt came two ynars ago when she lost to Serena Williams in the semifinals. 
Davenport said she is more relaxnd on day than in years past. 
"I feel like on a hard court or a grass court, you know, I should or can beat any player in the world," she said. "I feel like on a clay eourt it's a little bit more of an equalizer for my opponents and I'm aware of that. I do my best. I try to play my style of game and see how it gons." 
Italian officials prepare to deal with soccer violence 
HOME -Prnmi111' Silvio Bnrlusroni said Wndnesday that "drastic nwas­ures" may lw rwednd to st11111 thn risP of violt1nen at Italian sorrPr stadiums, a day after a fan hit a goalki'PJlt'r with a f'larn in a l~uropnan Champions l.eagun quartt1rlinal. 
Soeeer's J·:uropnan govnrning body said it will dncidn Friday on what punishnwnt to imposn on Internazionaln of Milan. AC Milan goalknnper Dida was hit. on a shoul­der Tuosday night. and tho rnfnrnn abandonnd the gamn al't.nr lntnr l'ans threw morn l'laros onto tho l'inld at San Siro stadium. 
Milan pollen ehinf Paolo Searpis said four lntor fans worn arrostnd in rnlation to Tunsday night's trouhl11. IIn said othnrs wnre bning idnntitind and more arrests wnn1 likely. 
Last weekend, seores of fans worn arrested and S9 police of'f'ieers injured in lighting at stadiums across the country. ' 
around the dial 
MLB 
Yankees at Red Sox, 7:05 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 
Miami at Philadelphia, 8 p.m., TNT 
Dallas at Portland, 10:30 p.m., TNT page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, April 14, 2005 


SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles set to battle the Dutch 

Saint Mary's hopes to break 13-game losing streak today 
By TOM STILES Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's (5-16) will look to stop the bleeding tonight when Hope College (16-6) comes to Saint Mary's Softball Diamond for a doubleheader beginning at 3:30 p.m. 
The Belles are in dire need of a win to snap their current 13­game slide and end the season on a positive note. 
Hope College comes in with a conference record of 6-2, which is good for third place in the MIAA. 
Unfortunately for the Belles, Hope College has been playing very well of late. This is evi­denced by its two impressive shutout victories over Adrian College Tuesday, with scores of 2-0 and 8-0, respectively. 
Hope College also boasts both the offensive and defensive players of the week in fresh­man right fielder .Jessica Hegnerus and junior pitcher Becky Whitman. 
Hegnerus just finished off Week Four of MIAA play by batting .637 with three HBI's and a stolen base, helping her team to four victories. Whitman owns two of those victories, which she earned by allowing two hits over twelve scoreless, striking out a total of seven bat­ters while walking none. 
The Belles find themselves dead last in the MIAA standings with a record of 0-8. The last two losses came at the hands of Calvin College, who proved to be too much for the struggling Belles. 
Calvin upped its conference and overall records to 4-0 and 14-8, respectively, by defeating Saint Mary's 6-3 in game one and 11-2 in game two. 
In game one, junior Bridget Grall pitched well enough for the wiri, allowing only two earned runs while striking out three in her six innings of work. Sophomore infielders Sarah Miesle and Laura Heline each had one hit apiece, lead­ing the offensive attack by driv­ing in one and two runs respec­tively. 
Game two saw Calvin's bats come alive, as freshman starter McKenna Corrigan and Grall were roughed up for eleven runs on fourteen hits in their combined seven innings of work. 
The Saint Mary's offense was stifled by senior pitcher Kara Van Kooten, who one-hit the Belles to go along with her four punch outs. 
Despite the losing streak, the Belles remain upbeat heading into the double"header tonight against Hope. 
"I think we're playing good ball ... we're gonna get some breaks one of these days," Miesle said. 
In the midst of this slump, some confidence could be Saint Mary's greatest weapon. 
Contact Tom Stiles at tstiles@nd.edu 
OLYMPICS 

Hamm named top amateur athlete 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Gymnast Paul 1-Iamm finally won an easy one. 
No spectacular comeback was necessary. No court bat­tles are foreseen. Olympic gold medalist 1-Iamm received the 75th Sullivan Award as the nation's top amateur athlete. 
"Oh, this is such a huge honor," he said before turn­ing to congratulate the other seven finalists in attendance Wednesday night. "It's just great to be one of the Sullivan Award winners." 
Ilamm beat out previous winner Michael Phelps as well as Olynipians Carly Patterson, Natalie Coughlin, Cael Sanderson, Andre Ward, Jeremy Wariner and Steven Lopez fcir th!:) award, which Phelps won last year before going on to claim six gold medals and two bronzes at the Athens Olympics ­matching the record for most medals at a single games. 
Southern Cal quarterback Matt Leinart also was a _finalist, along with Elisha Au (karate). 
In Athens, Hamm came back from 12th place in the all-around with only two events left to become the only U.S. man to win the Olympic all-around. But two days later, gymnastics offi­cials discovered that Yang Tae-Young of South Korea had been wrongly docked a tenth of a point on his sec­ond-to-last routine, the par­allel bars. 
Yang asked the Court of Arbitration for Sport to order international gymnas­tics officials to change the results and adjust the medal rankings accordingly, giving him the gold and Hamm the silver. 
But the CAS panel dis­missed the appeal, leaving I-Iamm with the gold. 
In the months since, hun­dreds of people told llamm he was an inspiration. People told him they admired his perseverance and determination. 
1-Iamm didn't mention the dispute during his public comments, but said he appreciated the support of "people in the United States" during his brief acceptance speech. 
1-Iamm is only the second gymnast to win the Sullivan award. Kurt Thomas won in 1979. 
Former winner Sarah Hughes presided over the ceremony at the New York Athletic Club, introducing each finalist. Each one rose and politely spoke of the honor of being nominated. When she reached Ward, a gold medalist in boxing at Athens who hasn't lost a bout since the age of 14, he brought the ro(Jm to laugh­ter. 
"As you guys heard, I haven't lost since I was 14 years old, so if I don't win this, it's going to be pretty hard to swallow," he said. 
Voting on the USA Today Web site helped determine the winner. More than 500,000 people voted online. 
The award i~ named after Amateur Athletic Union founder James E. Sullivan, and has been presented annually since 1930. 


Sexual Assault Awareness Month 
Film Fest 
Saturday, April 16th, 12-SPM 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium The Accused 
starring Jodie Foster in her first Oscar-vvinning role 
Be>dy She>ts 
starring Tara Reid, Jerry O'Connell, and Amanda Peet 
Followed by a panel discussion 
The event is FREE and open to the public. Donations will be taken for 505 of Madison Center. 
Sponsored by CARE with SOS of Madison Center, Gender Relations Center, Gender Studies, and Feminist Voice 


Whether you're headed abroad straight from campus or from home, StudentUniverse.com has the lowest airfares to the places where students are studying abroad this summer. 
Sample roundtrip Student Airfares from Chicago to: 


1m • • 
8 StudentUniverse.com 
T~ Fwru.s;Rs!;;Jt~~a>.c:~OO~j::?~~ ~tt&M~r~~~OOdWW$(/m;j Mmr~ar<:~OO~tta.-lli:i:Mld~llti $lsSOO/l~.i>'i<wr•w~f®i;:f$~ ~~~~f}l~t.H1;!;J$d~'1}:'C::$~~ ~~Jn~3illll$.~tK?.!S(!ffl.ll<ey~!N&. fJ 1Nh>¥fQ.'H)I"0~~ ~75~US: fl:ll~l ti3:1i ~ ~ &id~WI(V;~I{I{lOO:tm,:l~<:!1:'t i3ritlar'()-f'k.\tl!'ldud00: F•t!Md!%lldroolu <I~!):J-(j(;j;;;<_;.jj>;,)!xmiid<l ~~ nd<~t.)x~(lfljj m ~' ~.U#JM)'''~'t.l~ '<®:' ~&~® rn1oo v"'~S'~ 'RlWOOu> 1'!'/~~tt~'lYJ;tticiffl!l~IJEJ~~ "i"'m1 
Thursday, April 14, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
ND SOFTBALL 
Weather poses problems 
of late, winning only two of 
1\y THOMAS BARR 
its last five games. Like the Sports Wrilrr 
Irish, thl) Flames also lost 
their last scheduled game to 
Bain, rain, go away. rain. 
l~ntering today's contnst Senior StefTany Stenglein is against thn University or sehedulnd to start today's Illinois Chi<~ago (2H-I 9) on tlw gamn and hopes to add to her lrnnls or yet anotlwr cancella­ton wins and team-loading tion dun to 141 striknouts. 
n r I f) m n n t Junior Heather
"We have faced a
WPalher, thn Booth is likely to Irish are just lot ofadversity eomo in for hoping to get relief. Booth
from the weather 
this OliO iII. eurrnntly boasts
this season. " 
Thus far this a 13-4 record season, 12 regu­with a 1.10 EHA. lar season Deanna Gumpf The Irish hope g a nws a n d the to slow down
Irish coach 
send play of a tournament have lwnn postporwd or ean­e n II <HI d u n to un pI a y a b I e wiHtthnr conditions. 
"We havn faend a lot of advPrsity from thn weathor this season," eoach Doanna c;umpf said. "It could affoet lusl. but wn cannot let it. We just rnmnmbnr that there is absolutely nothing we ean do about it and takn it in stride." 
Tlw Irish travel to Chieago for today's gamn against the UIC Flames. 
Illinois Chicago has faltered Flames star out­
fieldnr Cameron Astiazaran. Cameron is third in the nation in slugging per­centage at .H<J5, eighth in bat­ting averagn, hitting at a .477 clip, and sncond in doubles with 23. 
"Astiazaran is really a stud player," Cumpl' said. "Basieally, wn need to get her to swing at bad pitehes. We need her to swing at our pitchers' best pitehes and keep it out of her power zone." 
The Irish r·espoct the abili­tins of the whole Flames team and are not foeusing only on thnir star. 
"They arc scrappy, one of the scrappiest teams out thore," Gumpf said. "They can flat out hit. They are mis­take hitters, and if you make a mistake, they can make you pay." 
Due to lack of games in rceont days, Gumpf believes the rceent efforts of Liz Hartmann, Stephanie Brown and Sara Sehoonaert deserve speeial recognition. "Liz Hartmann has really been on a roll", Gumpf said. "Stephanie has definitely stepped as leadoff hittor, and Sara Schoonaert has been hitting exeeptionally lwelll the last few games." 
In faet, in Schoonaert's last four games, sho has go no 7­for-11 with throe HBI and a run. 
The streak has upped her season batting average more thitn 60 points to .2H3. 
Today's llrst piteh is sehed­uled for 7 p.m. at Flames Field. 
Contact Thomas Barr at tbarr@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Saint Mary's shut out by host Kalamazoo 
By PATRICK McCABE 
Sports Wri rer 
Tho Bollos foil to Kalamazoo College 9-0 Wednnsday, but. tho lopsided seore misleads. 
"Tho seore didn't reflect tho closeness of tlw matdH~s." Saint Mary's co-captain Miranda Mikulyuk noted. "We lost two sin­gles matches in three sets and another two 5-7, 4-(,." 
Fellow eaptain Kristnn Palombo was disappointnd with the resuiL<> of tho match. 
"You never want to lose by that score," Palombo said. "W.() should have pulled a eouple of matches out for sure. It just wasn't one of our days. 
"We ean't foe us on this loss, because we will play two tough matehos, one at home against. Albion on Sunday and anothnr on Tuosday against Calvin. We havn to quickly place this loss bosidn us and move on." 
The captains attributed the loss to various factors. 
"We're still young and inexpnri­eneod," Mikulyuk said. "We didn't play poorly, just not good enough. 
"Also, the injurins have alfodod thn team. Usually teams nxpnct and absorb tho dnpart.urns of om~ or two snniors but throe graduat­ed last y<Htr. Additionally, on1• player is studying abroad and injury has sidelinnd IGracn Gordon 1. Wo havo fivo nnw play­ers among our top sevon. It's tough to rm~ovnr. We arrived only f'iftenn minutes before play bngan, so wn had littln warm-up time whkh lnd to a poor start in doubles." 
Both captains a).,rrnnd that blus­tnring winds afli~etnd thn matdr­es. 
"Tho weather and high winds madn it tough and thrnw oiT our game a bit," Mikulyuk said. 
The tandnm disagrend about tho oflilctivmwss of Kalamazoo's practice of rnarranging iL'i lineup for naeh opponent. 
Despite dropping to l-2 in eon­feroneo play, the Bnllns will draw strength from thnir history of unllappability. 
"The tnam finished tind for see­ond last ynar but elnvatod its play to win tho eonfnroncn tourna­ment," Mikulyuk said. 
Contact Patrick McCabe at pmccabe@nd.edu 
Brdnd Stuffrd Sdndwirhcs 
lEAN POCKETS" 
llrand Stuffed Samlwirhes 
CROISSANT POCKETS' 
llrand Stuffed Sdndwichcs 
lry our new llOT POCKETS® brand POT PIE EXPRESS'M and Fruit Pasbies 
[------------------------MFG couPON 1.·i::xr'tf1E.s Jiii:v a:Toos -] 
Save50~1 
HOT POCKETS~, LEAN POCKETS!&, CROISSANT POCKETS \,.,dStuu,.t """'w'd"" 
.••· ." .r· ·:~:..:J'!t"'~;;:t:::~7.'·;"f! t:1:tgOO·<r,"' ej•·· ·;'1](11 ~t.l tw ~::-: CONSUMER ;.r_; ~'!: ..v~-.lll r-!1' .pr'OIIliJ {.--· {5) f',ltl!l:~! Th; ·, • • · '!l'i , 1dtll:'! s.: ;I,_, .~ii!Gf•• · • ,.,.; RETAilER '+ s::•!Pn~~-.1,1 r-((1118 
1·;··; :•~1·~ 1' n..,.,..' ~~ :-.lllr•II-I:'.Ili•firlr~·,!·UI'I)Iut,fie,~$1A)01tll:(lltll~ll pl1"•l '•~' •,: 'J··;·~. !"t1)11lld riXJd! f.OIIIJIWIY. holflll·'lllfcf FtiiXII CinJV!I M,lf11Jitt111rt'l'$ ~--·:•#• -~ ,.' 1 ··r~·-1.r~}if.~~'"~''UOOtlftllllillSI (.()llf.lf:V:'I'·1· •. l~JI~:·~ IJ('. 

••You only get one ehanee to n1ake a fi1·st impt"("ssion.·• 
4*''~..
.. 
' -~ 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 14, 2005 
Ohio State's Devin Mullings. once again caused him trouble Keckley and King lost a close 9-Although D'Amico, who has "I felt we played a very coura­during doubles play. 7 decision to Ohio State's Chris played at the No. 1 singles slot
Tennis 
continued from page 24 
Irish came within one match of pulling out a victory against No. 30 Ohio State. 
With senior captain Brent D'Amico forced to watch from the sidelines, the Irish had to make up an early 3-1 deficit yesterday against the Buckeyes. Winning the next three singles matches put the team within a singles victory of the match win, leaving Barry King in the last singles match on court. 
But cramps affected the Irish sophomore late in the match. After taking an injury timeout, King returned to the No. 2 sin­gles match but lost 7-5, 7-5 to geous match," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "But today was a day where it was kind of within our grasp, and we weren't quite able to take the match. Barry played one of his better matches of the year. I thought the No. 2 match was the highest level of all the matches, and Barry played very well but just didn't quite win." 
D'Amico has been coping with a nagging hamstring injury since the beginning of the month, an injury that kept him out of singles play against Southern Methodist. But the senior was able to play in the team's last match against Ball State, a 6-1 team victory. Unfortunately, D'Amico's leg 
"We thought [Brent] was going to be okay, but as doubles went on, his leg tightened up and he wasn't able to play sin­gles, which is unfortunate," Bayliss said. "But life goes on, and you've got to play with the hand you're dealt." 
The reshuffled doubles teams the Irish have been sporting for the past few weeks played well against the formidable Buckeye competition. D'Amico and jun­ior Eric Langenkamp lost 8-2 to the Ohio State duo of Scott Green and Ross Wilson, the No. 1 doubles team in the nation. 
Notre Dame also had chances in the other two doubles match­es but dropped both in close contests. Sophomores Ryan Klingemann and Mullings. Sophomore Stephen Bass and freshman Sheeva Parbhu were playing a close 8-7 contest against Joey Atas and Drew Eberly before the match was abandoned to finish before darkness set in on the outdoors play. 

"We're somewhat pleased with the new doubles pairings," Bayliss said. "Ohio State's very good in doubles, and we knew that. We lost No. 1 doubles badly, but again Brent wasn't 100 percent. We were up 7-2 at No. 2 and lost 9-7. We really let that match get away. We were up two breaks and just didn't pull the trigger when it was there." 
for most of the season, was missed in singles play, the Irish closed the early gap in the heart of their lineup. Parbhu, junior Patrick Buchanan and Langenkamp posted three cru­cial singles victories at the No. 3, 5 and 6 slots, respectively, to bring the match closer within reaeh. 
"It's good to know that we can come out and play a quality team right to the hilt on the road without one of our top players," Bayliss said. "That's good to know, but you still have to win those matches when they're close." 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
McCants emulates Jordan 
Associated Press 
CIIAPEL IIILL, N.C. -For Hashad McCants, it's all about being like Mike. 
He pretended to be Michael Jordan when he was a kid and took the reverse of Jordan's retired No. 23 when hn arrived at North Carolina. After his sophomore season, McCants decided to come back to school for one more year, hoping to win a national championship -like Jordan. 
Now, having helped the Tar Heels win their fourth title, McCants will follow. 
A comparison to Jordan might seem a stretch, but McCants -a third team all-ACC selection this season -certainly didn't shy away from it as he formally announced his decision to enter the NBA draft. 
Last year, "I figured I've got to come back and at least have something to say to Mike when I get up there and talk to him," McCants said at a news confer­ence. "And say, 'Hey, I stayed three years just like you, and we won a championship just like you.'" 
McCants, whose 16-point aver­age was second among Tar Heels, said he is hiring an agent, a move that would prevent him from returning for his senior season. But he said he would continue working toward his col­lege degree. 
McCants was joined by coach Hoy Williams and his parents, James McCants and Brenda Muckelvene, for the news con­ference, making official a deci­sion expected for more than a week. The day after the Tar Heels beat Illinois 75-70 in the NCAA final, Williams said he expected McCants to head for the NBA. 
Williams said Wednesday that McCants had his "complete sup­port" in making a move the two began discussing in January. 
The coach credited McCants for maintaining his focus in the months since, a trying period that included Muckelvene's treatments for breast cancer and an intestinal disorder that side­lined McCants for four games. 
The 6-foot-4 swingman's scor­ing fell from a 20-point average as a sophomore, but his all­around game improved. lie took fewer shots, increased his assist total and played better defense. 
Now, 
all your incOming calls can be free. 


Unlimited CALL ME Minutesare not deducted from packaged minutes and are only available in 1he local calling area. Mobile Messaging 250 pad<age is $5.95 per month thereafter, $0.10 per outgoing mes· sage beyond 250. Must call10 cancel. Mobile Messaging -acharge of $0.10 per outgoing message applies ff no messaging package is selected or existing package limit Is exceeded. Offer valid on two-year consumer service agreement on local and regional plans of $39.95 or higher. All service agreements subject 10 an early termination fee. Credft approvai required. $30 activation fee. $15 equipment change fee. Roaming charges, fees, surcharges, overage charges and taxes apply. $0.96 Ftidaral and Other Regulatnry charge applies. This is not atax or government required charge. lDcal network coverage and mliablli· ly may vary. Usage rounded up 10 the next full minute. Use of service constitutes acceplance of our terms and oonditions. Other restrictions apply. See store for details. Umlted time offer. 02005 U.S. Cellular Corporation. 
~~----------, 
Thursday, April 14, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Banquet 
continued from page 24 
felt he's accomplislwd that. 
Thomas said he was glad the erowd at the banquet was smaller than last year's beeause he lwlieved that was the true Notre Dame eommu­nity. 
When it earne down to the emotions for Thomas, they wnren't thero. 
"I'm really not emotional tonight," Thomas said. 
"J 'm not saying
"I'm kind of' and a loaded happy. You goodbye because incoming fresh­apprnciatn tlw man elass, the
I'm ready to leave. 
time and r.an optimism will
I'm ready to let
part on good rnturn prior to terms." somebody else take the tip-ofT of the And when 2005-06 season.
over." 
Thomas got to "We certainly the nnd of' his didn't finish tho speiH~h. he Chris Thomas way we wanted, passed on the senior guard but this group 
joke  in  at  the  end  of  his  
speech.  
''I'm going to  really miss  

this Joyce Center, no matter how crappy it is," he said. 
Walk-on senior Greg Bosl also gave a speech, speaking prior to Thomas and Cornette. 
After a season that ended with a disappointing first­round loss in the NIT to Holy Cross, Mike Brey said goodbye to the graduating seniors and started setting his sights on the future at the end of the banquet. 
With three rnturning starters 


toreh of' the pro­g r a m "You can elose the chapter and open a nnw one," Thomas said. 
"I'm not saying goodbye hncaus11 I'm rnady to leave. I'm ready to let somebody else takn ovnr." 
Tho emotional snnior on thn night was .Jordan Cornette, who had to eomposo himself a number of times at the nnd or his speech whnn talking about his rnomortes and tnammatns and thanking his parnnts for nvnrything tlwy've given him. 
"It's been, without a doubt, an incredible ride. and for that I'm gratnful," Cornnttn said. 
But Cornette did got a good had its moments," 
Brey said. 
"This was something to build on. The returning group learned a lot from this year." 
Notes: 
A decision on Dennis Latimore's returning for next season will be announeod early next week, possibly Monday. 
Latimore was the reeipient of the Hoekne Student Athlete !\ward at tho banquet Wednesday night. Tho senior, who transferred from Arizona prior to the 2003-04 season, is a double major in English 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, Akhmatova, Tchaikovsky, Stravinsky, Prokofiev, Chagall, Pavlov, Baryshnikov.. 
N.A. S.A. Payload Specialist, 
U.S. Anns Control Liaison, World Bank Investment Adviser. 
WHAT DO THEY HAVE IN COMMON? 
RUSSIAN 
RUSSIAN 101, FALL 2005 NO PREREQUISITE 
http://www.nd.edu/---grl 
Baseball vs. Connecticut
ll1 
(Doubleheader) 
12:05 @ Frank Eck Stadium
~ 
.. •Come play "Home Run Derby" ,_ on Pla~station durin~ the ¥ame• · 
Wo~n's lacrosse vs. #3 Georgetown (GOLD GAME) ( ·~~ 1 PM @ Moose Krause Field ~ . 
• First 200 fans will • First 150 fans will receive a Gold Games receive a Nalgene 
t-shirt, sponsored by water bottle, South Bend Orthopaedics .-.::-r-z-•.••cr,nn•::nr,)f'1 by the WB 
Baseball 
continued from page 24 

two CMU base runners taking their leads in scoring position, pinch hitter Derek Schaller sin­gled to right field with two outs. On the ensuing play, center­fielder Alex Nettey stood ready for what would have been the third out of the inning but lost the ball in the lights and wind. It sailed over his head for a bases-clearing triple that dampened any eomeback hopes the Irish may have had. 
"There've been a lot of strange things happen this year," coach Paul Mainieri said. "I don't know if it's us, or if we're just not playing smart enough baseball, or if it's just the way things happen some­times in this sport." 
Unable to capitalize on a solid pitching outing by freshman lefty Wade Korpi, the Irish (17­
15) threw four dill'erent pitch­ers who struggled to hold the Chippewas after Korpi exited following the fifth inning. One of those four was 7-1 ace reliever Hyan Doherty. 

Doherty walked two batters and plunked two others out of the ten Chippewas he faced. 
Korpi left the game with his team trailing 3-1 as the Irish struggled to lind any offensive output against Contra! Michigan starter Jayson Huhlman. Huhlman gave up only throe hits through four innings. Korpi (3-1) took his first loss of the year. 
"Tonight I didn't think we played with our heads at all," Mainieri said. "For having a really bright group of kids, I don't think that we played like bright baseball players tonight. 
"It was frustrating tonight. It just didn't seem like we. could get the big hit, and they did. At the end there, they started get­ting some clutch hits that hurt us." 
Third baseman Brett Lilley reeorded throe hits and two HBis. and catcher Matt Bransfield added two hits to pace the Irish otli:mse. 
The Irish are now 3-2 on the season against Mid-American Conference opponents. Notre Dame suffered its fourth non­conference midweek loss of the season, a major setback in any hopes of continuing the 16-year 

G-reat Food! 
G-reat Fut1! 
Welcottte All Jlue 6-G-old Fat1s! 
#J Sports Jar it1 South Jet1d 2046 South Jet1d Ave ~ Across frottt Martit1s Plaza 
272~1766 
CALL TODAY TO RESERVE YOUR GRADUATION PARTY rues: COLL[H Nl~HT ~ UJ &-SP[CIALS (STArl.TIN~ AT $J.OOJ Wed: Live f¥.1VIA Night -Jrit1g your teatMs -Prizes fhurs: UJ -Pet1t1Y Night -1¢Specials startit1g at 9PM MUST ~[ 21 ~ N[V[R A COV[R WITH A STUU[NT IU 
streak of 40-win seasons and qualifying for thn NCAA tourna­ment for thn s1wenth straight season. 
''I'm resolved to thn f'aet that we're going to have to win the conference tournanwnt to get into the NCA!\ tournament; I'm certain of that," Mainieri said. "We've just had too many mid­week losses that are going to hurt us if' it eomos down to a selection eommittne deeision." 
"It's our own fault. We just did­n't get tho job done in some of these games that we needed to." 
The goal for thn rnst of thn sna­son is simple. 
"Our avenue to the NC!\A tour­nament is we'rn going to hav1~ to qualify fi1r the Big East tourna­ment and win the Big East tour­nament," Mainieri said. "That's just tlw way it's going to bo." 
Saturday at noon, the Irish take on the Huskies (19-10) in a erudal confimmce doubleheader at home. The third and final game of the serins is Sunday at noon. Notre Damn (5-4, Big East) and Conneeticut (4-4, Big East) arn eurrnntly in tho middle of the pack of the Big J•:ast s~andings, both vying filr the eovcted lilurth spot in the confnrnnce tourna­ment. 
St. John's is the Big Ea.'it lnadnr at 7-1 in tho eonfnronee, whiln every team behind the Hod Storm has at lna.'it thron lossns. 
"The focus is totally on Connoeticut. now," Mainieri said. "If wo gnt the job done this week­end, we ean put oursnlves in a pretty decent position." 
The Saturday starters for Notre Dame will be sophomore Dan Kapala and junior Tom Thornton -the same rotation as last wenkond. Manship will again start in tho Sunday game with fellow sophomorn Jnff Samardzija rnady to baek him up. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 

Rowing VS Cincinnati t (GOLD GAME)(!) Races Start @ 8AM 
Margaret Prickett Park 
• First 100 fans will receive a Gold Games t-shirt, sponsored South Bend 
~ 
~ 


page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 14, 2005 
Illinois 
continued from page 24 
eight-match winning streak, Northwestern's strength lies in doubles-just like Notre Dame. 
The doubles matches at each position will be nothing short of fierce. The No. 4 duo of sopho­mores Catrina and Christian Thompson will challenge No. 1 Audra Cohen and Christelle Grier at the No. 1 position, while junior Lauren Connelly and Brook Buck 
Quinn 
continued from page 24 
best you possibly can so you can exceed all expectations of everyone else and win a national championship. That's more or less the goal every time you go out there." 
Quinn has had his share of ups and downs since taking over the starting role against Purdue in 2003. 
He threw for 1,831 yards, nine touchdowns and 15 inter­ceptions in his freshman sea­son. 
Last season, his numbers improved as the 6-foot-4, 228­pounder tossed 17 touch­downs and threw for 2,586 yards with only 10 intercep­tions. 
As spring football winds down and the 2005 season looms, the pressure is greater than ever on Quinn as he tries to lead the Irish back to col­lege football's elite. 
But he is thankful for the presence of former Notre Dame quarterback Ron Powlus, who is filling in for quarterback coach David Cutcliffe while Cutcliffe recov­will face No. 36 Alexis Prousis and Kristi Roemer. 
"[Northwestern] looks like they're going to be tough, but we're looking forward to the challenge," Louderback said. "This will be a good weekend to help us get ready for the Big East because we're still fighting for the No. 1 or 2 seed at regionals for the NCAA's." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.du and Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
ers from heart surgery in 
Missis~ippi. 
"One thing I've been able to do over the last couple of weeks is talk to [Powlus] about his past experiences," Quinn said. 
"He's been a great resource and someone to talk to. He always tries to get you to move on to the next play. Don't worry about the last play, whether it was good or bad, you can't worry about that." 
The lack of another veteran quarterback has given Quinn a lot of one-on-one time with Irish head coach Charlie Weis. 
Weis' ability to design pow­erful offenses coupled with the fact that starters return at every offensive position for Notre Dame gives Quinn confi­dence as he faces the pres­sures of next season. 
"I feel extremely comfort­able out there," Quinn said. "When you have an offense with a lot of guys coming back, you feel comfortable with the guys up front, with your receivers [and with] what you can expect from them running their pass routes." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
FooTBALL NoTEBOOK 

Injury sidelines Abiamiri 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
Sophomore defensive end Victor Abiamiri will miss the remainder of spring practice. Abiamiri sustained a leg injury after being kicked in the shin during Tuesday's practice. Initially, team officials were concerned about the long term consequences of his injury, but those fears were dispelled after a doctor saw Abiamiri on Wednesday. 
"At first, we thought there was a bone that was displaced and cracked, but fortunately that wasn't the case," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. 
"If it was a bone that was broken. he would be out six months." 
The injury is not expected to slow Abiamiri down by the time next season begins. 
"He couldn't play this week or next week if we were play­ing," Weis said. "He would have been out a few weeks, but by the time we come back, he'll be set and ready to go," Weis said. 
Impressive speed 
Junior walk-on wide receiv­er Brandon Harris has impressed the coaching staff all spring with his speed. Harris recently started work­ing at cornerback in practice. 
Weis is optimistic Harris may prove to be a valuable asset for the team. 
"I don't know if he's going to be a wide receiver or if he's going to be a DB, but when a kid runs as fast as he runs, you want to at least give him a chance. to compete," We is said. 


The shift, Weis hopes, may indicate where Harris will best be able to succeed. 
"You have to see where he's going to be on your depth chart as a receiver," Weis said. "If he's not going to be in your two-deep and multiple-receiv­er sets, then maybe he can be in your two-deep as a defen­sive back. 
"We're looking to find niches for people so we know 'what are we going to do with them,' so when you go out there and play games. you can kind of try to figure out who the best guys are and get them all out there." 
Patriotic celebration 
The New England Patriots were at the White House again on Wednesday to celebrate their NFL championship with President George W. Bush. About 30 players and coaches attended the reception, but one of the key figures. missing hom the Super Bowl Champions was Charlie Weis, as the Irish coach was in South Bend for Notre Dame's spring practice. 

Reaching out 

Hannah and Friends, the foundation created by Irish coach Charlie Weis and his wife Maura to support individ­uals affected by autism and developmental· disabilities, has partnered with Forever Collectibles and is announcing the release of officially licensed bracelets that will be sold to help support the foun­dation and the South-Bend based LOGAN (see photo above). 
The Hammes Bookstore has already purchased 50,000 bracelets, which are slated to go on sale April 23 -the date of the Blue-Gold Scrimmage ­for $2 apiece. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

Monk's Farewell Mass 
Sunday, April 17th 
9:00 p.m. at the JACC 
All students are invited to attend "Monk's Farewell Mass." Mass will be followed by a reception in honor ofFr. Malloy in the JACC Monogram Room, featuring: 
,_(;reat food and live music"' 
"'Fr. Malloy will be on hand to greet students"' 
Come celebrate with Monk and thank him for 18 years of service to the Student Body ofthe University ofNotre Dame. 
Thursday, April 14, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
OUR MARKETING PLAN WAS TO FIND A SPORTS STADIUM TO BRAND  ~ g1  THE HARD PART WAS FINDING A TEAM SO JUICED UP THAT OUR  ff!' ::J ~  HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT THE NEW STADIUM  
WITH OUR COMPANY'S  .g  REPUTATION SEEMED  ~  NAME?  RAGE. SAME  
NAME.  ;!  GOOD IN COMPARISON.  u  \  AS ALWAYS.  
PEANUTS  CHARLES SCHULZ  


SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

r--------------------------,Er--------------------------,~r-------------------------~ 
BUT HE THAT 5TVPID BEAGLEHE HAS NO RIGHT 1b WORR'r' WANTS llJ 5HOULPN'T BE OUT
'(OU LIKE 1'1115, CHARLIE BROWN! 
FIND HI~ Al.ONE!HE'LL BUMP INTOHE'S '/OUR DOG At.ID HE SHOULD MOTHER.. A T~EE OR 50/o\ElHING...STAI( HOME WHERE HE BELONGS! 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon

JJlM~&I1d! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DANSY 
j
I I r 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. AU Rights Reserved. 
YORRS j 
rJ r
tREEVER I 

WHERE: MOM TOOK HE:I< TODDL.E:I<
IJ I 
WHE:N SHE: WE:NT SHOPPING. 
www.Jumble.com 
IYOBUDEj 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as

[ ) [ I I
L___J,:>......""-L__--'""'""""'"-----L---' suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: TO THE 

'liiiiiiJ' 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday' Jumbles: TWINE DOWDY QUORUM TURKEY s Answer: Why he couldn't go to the dinner P.,arty in his
I 

favorite shirt-IT WAS "WORN" OUT 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS DAY: Kyle Howard. 27: Rick Schroder. 35; Garry Kasparov, 42: Saundra Santiago, 4K 
Happy Hirthday: There won'l he much time for rest this year, hut you won't need it with the amount of energy you have stored up. Your competitive orive and your ahility to challenge anyone who opposes you will cnahlc you to sec matters through to the cno. Don't lose sight of what your ohjcctivc truly is and you will fino success. Your numhcrs arc 3, 6, 17, 22, 39,41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Do something thai you enjoy. Go shopping, take a shorl trip, or visit someone you haven't seen in some time. This is a grcal oay to fino love or to do something wi!h that special person in your life. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't let anyone put words in your mouth, especially if it pertains lo work and money. You may have to compromise a lillie 
to get what you want. If you decide to he stubborn, you can kiss any chance of advancemenl goodbye.*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): It's lwo steps forward ano three slcps hack loday. 
Emotional mailers will slop you from seeing lhings clearly. Trying to push an 
idea that is really ahcao of its time will he futile. *** CANCER (June 21-.luly 22).: Consider keeping lhings low-key today. If you 
try to convince others to help, you will he put in your place quickly. This is not the time to take action hul rather to formulate what you will oo next. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Things arc turning in your favor tooay, so don'l skip a beat. Get yourself moving early and prepare to make some crucial moves toward your future goals. Set up an appoinlmcnl with someone you know has 
the power to help you move forward. **** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may not feel up to par today. Someone you least expect will cause you some grief. Stick to what you do best and leave the rest for someone else. Strive to he more tolerant and less critical. •• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): It's a new day, so consider taking on a new look. You will he channing, accommodating and everyone will want to do things with you. The more you give, the more you can expect to receive. ••••* SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take the initiative and do something that will help you feel be!ler about your health and your financial situation. Reorganize your home so you have a suitahle space lo exercise or work on a creative project. It's up to you to make positive changes. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21): Romantic encounters are evident if you get involved in a project or community event geared toward reform and helping others. Someone you have known for some time will have an idea for you regarding a personal mauer. ••• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't leave your responsibilities in the hands of others to'day. Get down to husiness and follow mailers through to the end. If you are hands-on today you will make fabulous gains. •** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will have the energy and know-how to turn any idea you have into a work of art. Slarl a project that will ensure you will feel better about the way you look. The end result will raise your self-esteem. ••••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Not everyone will he on your side. Be careful who you trust. You will have to manipulate the situation if you don't want to suffer the consequences. *• 
Birthday Baby: You are versatile, adaptable and wanllo know about everything. You are quick to make decisions, and you always think in a grandiose manner.• You always reach for the lop because you view nothing as hcing too diflicull or unattainahle. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astmadvice.comfor fim, euxenialiL\'t.comfhrcon.fit/ential consu/tatitms 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Chicken coop 
material 5 Idiosyncrasies 9 Where captains 
go 14 Others, in Latin 15 Suffix with 
depend 16 Not upright 17 Aardvark 
feature 19 With 13-Down, "I'll get those guys!" 20 Makes a dazzling 
entrance 22 Furrow maker 23 Revolutionary 
leader 24 Pact 27 Saucy 28 Garden party? 31 Calculus 
calculation 
32 French author who co-founded La Nouvelle Revue Franr;:aise 
33 Epitome of grace 34 Screens, filters and such 37 Spheres 38 Major success 39 Echecs piece 40 Kind of cross 41 Expensive box 42 Word with salt or root 
4JoKay who sang "Wheel of Fortune," 1952 
45 City on the Oka 46 "Indiana Jones" genre 52 With 12-Down, fiery guy? 53 Common football spread 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

54 Granny and Windsor 55 Dagger part 56 Fax button 57 Horse 58 Part of Y.S.L. 59 Western tourist destination 
DOWN. 1 Washington locale, with "the" 2 "The Time 
Machine" race 3 Belt, perhaps 4 Sinatra standard 5 Got tight 6 "Peace 
time" 7 Bra spec 8 Squared 
accounts 
9 Scout's find 10 Cheri of "S.N.L." 11 "Waiting for 
God" philosopher 12 See 52-Across 13 See 19-Across 18 Squirrel, to 35-Down 
21 " stand" (Martin Luther declaration) 
24 Kind of tie 25 Santa_, Calif. 26 It may be spontaneous 27 It comes in fits 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The 
9P.:".e.r_v.~~ !I) .Y<?~~-~<_l!l.l~:.-•.... -.•.. -•.......•. -­

WILLSHORTZ 

47 Punish, in a way 
48 Mid sixth­century year 32 Place settings, 
42 Family matters? 49 Iris container 
collectively 44 Salon supply 50 Western 33 Quick appraisal 
vacation 
of legitimacy 45 Reproductive 
destination 
cell 
35 Proverbial start 51 Pulls the plug of great things 46 Names a price on 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/Jearning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name ______________________________________________________________ Address _________________________________________ City .State ____ Zip______  ..  
....  

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, April 14, 2005 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Under center-piece 
Responsibility as top QB motivates Quinn during spring season 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Ediror 
All Brady Quinn needs for motivation to improve this spring is a pocket football schedule. 
"You have to prepare your­self for the Tennessees, See also u s c s ' 
Michigan s, "Injury sidelines M i c h i g a n Abiamiri'' 
States ... all 
19
those tough page teams," the Irish quarterback said about his mindset going into the upcoming season. "You have a battle week in and week out." 
Barring injury, the junior will navigate the Irish for the third consecutive year. 
Quinn is the only Notre Dame quarterback on the ros­ter with any considerable experience and the clear starter ahead of David Wolke, Darrin Bragg and Marty Mooney. 
Scholarship recruit Evan Sharpley and walk-on Dan Gorski will join the team in the fall, but neither is expected to challenge for anything more than the backup role. 
Despite the lack of competi­tion at his position, Quinn is not worried about complacen­cy. 
"Your motivation never is necessarily the person behind you, because you're only going to be doing enough to beat them," Quinn said. 
"You need to be playing the 
see QUINN/page 22 


BASEBALL 
Win streak snapped in 10-4 defeat 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
Central Michigan did some­thing Wednesday night at Frank Eck Stadium that no other non­conference team has ever been able to do in that stadium in con­secutive years-win. 
The Chippewas (19-12) defeat­ed the Irish 10-4, snapping Notre Dame's three-game winning streak and starting one their own. The Chippewas also won last year's contest ..4-1. 
If that seems strange, the ninth inning itself was even stranger. The Irish had closed the gap to 7-3 by the top of the ninth. With 
see BASEBALL/page 21 
N D WOMEN's TENNIS 

Notre Dame stays poised under pressure, outlasts Illinois 
punctuated with both success and Louderback said. "But they're Especially heartening, both vic­at the Indiana match who didn'tBy DAN TAPETILLO AND failure. espeeially tough at home. tories were decided in the final make any errors and hit big. ButANN LOUGHERY Last weekend, the Illini notched "I think winning the doubles matches of the meet. The Irish Kiki started coming to the net 
Sports Writers 

a win against Michigan State 5-2 point against William and Mary have struggled to remain poised more and really finished her off." but fell to No. 38 Michigan, 4-3, last weekend was a huge confi­under pressure in the past, as Louderback said he is looking 
For the third consecutive in a tight match. Like Notre dence builder for our kids. I'm they have won just one of ten 4-3 for similar impressive perform­match, No. 26 Notre Dame (12-8) Dame, Illinois is a team that has looking forward to seeing how matches over the last two sea­ances all the way down the line­pulled out a 4-3 victory. struggled to convert close match­the kids play." sons (0-5 this spring). up against Northwestern. 
It took a third set match from es into victories as they Jogged Last weekend, the Irish (11-8) "I was really proud of how all Northwestern looks to be just junior Lauren Connelly for the their seventh 4-3 decision against upset No. 16 William and Mary 4-of our kids played," Louderback as -if not more -challenging Irish to pull beat No. 54 Illinois Michigan last weekend. 3 on Saturday and No. 35 Indiana said. "But (junior Kiki Stastny] than Illinois. Thriving on an (10-8) at the Atkins Tennis "Illinois has struggled some this 4-3 on Sunday, extending their really came through for us. She Center. Illinois' season has been year," Irish coach Jay three-match winning streak. really played tough against a girl see ILLINOIS/page 22 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish fall short in 4-3 loss 
Team drops match to Ohio State in its last meet before Big East 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Sporrs Writer 
For the second time in the last three matches, injuries plagued the Notre Dame tennis squad and forced the team to change its game plan. While its last attempt to recover from an injury-ridden contest ended in a lopsided 5-2 defeat to Southern Methodist, the No. 29 

.. see TENNIS/page 20 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Tho111as recalls career with fondness at dinner 
By MATT LOZAR Senior Staff Writer 
It took awhile, but Chris Thomas finally closed the book on his Notre Dame career. 
At Wednesday night's men's basketball banquet held at the Joyce Center, Thomas was the final senior to reach the podi­um and said just about every­thing that was on his mind. 
From impersonating the walk of assistant coach Lewis Preston and saying Preston has a "high booty," to reveal­ing Harold Swanagan would be his girlfriend if anyone asked because of the kisses Swanagan gives him, to men­tioning his five credit hours allowed him to go out and could be why his "shooting percentage was down," Thomas leaned on the podium in front of the three framed gold jerseys of the seniors and just kept going. 
The senior from Indianapolis did have some serious moments. 
He mentioned how he came to Notre Dame to take this program to a new height and 
see BANQUET/page 21 


LLI  NCAA BASKETBAll  rm SOFTBAll  SMC TENNIS  SMC SOFTBAll  GYMNASTICS  BOOKSTORE  
~  
z ::5 =  North Carolina's Rashad McCants is striving to attain great- Steffany Stenglein expected to start as Irish travel to Chicago to take  The Kalamazoo Hornets zoomed past the Belles, 9-0.  The Belles are set to face Hope in a double­header today.  Gymnast Paul Hamm received the 75th Sullivan award as the  Five of Shawn Kemp's 42 Illegitimate Children beat Chico's Bail Bonds,  
cc =:  ness of Michael Jordan.  on University of Illinois-Chicago.  nation's top amateur athlete.  21-16, to advance in the Bookstore Basketball tournament.  
page 20  page 19  page 18  page 18  page 18  page 16  



