
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Abroad interns affected by British elections 
election campaigning for their may call an election wlwncver mnant Notre Dame interns can­
By JOE TROMBELLO 
rnspectivP M11mbers of he or she l'nnls it would be bene­not work in their regular
Nows Wri1er 
Parliament (MPs). ficial during the course of' thnir Westminster of'lio~s. Dnpending 
term. Because Parliament must upon what district thnir MP rep­
OXI'Oill>, l·:ngland -British Election procedures bn dissolvnd in tho intnrim peri­resents, some students said they l'rimn Minister Tony Blair's British election procedurPs od, Messina said nleetions are will have the opportunity to trav­announr.nnHHlt of re-Plnr.tion mquin~ the Parliament to hP dis­often lwld shortly after they are el to their MP's constituency to April 5, with the election to be solvnd in the pnriod bPtwnen an dedarnd, usually within four to observe and/or assist with the lwld May 5, has complicated tho Plection announcement and elec­six wonks. eampaigning, whilll others will l'arlianwntary internships of tion day, in order to "avoid thP "Since during thn campaign not be able to do so and effec­Notre l>anw London students use of oflkial ollices to inflwnH:e Parliament is 'suspnndnd,' it is tively face a curtailed this tnrm, <u:cording to current the campaign and its outeome," morn or lnss imperativn to seat a Parliamentary internship. intnrns and t.lw internship according to associate professor new Parliament as soon as pos­Junior John Tint, a finance administrators. While Parlia­of political science Anthony sible so that the businnss of gov­and political scienen major, said nwnt has hePn dissolved and Messina, who sp11cializes in ernment can move forward," he he prefers not to think or his in tPrns can no longnr work as Western European and British said. internship as having bonn short­normal at Westrninstnr. some polities. ened but rather said it "has studnnts said tlwy will havn tho The Prime Minister, in consul­Notre Dame interns evolved into a diiTnrnnt form." opportunity to participate in tation with tho ruling monarch, Tho 1~lection, thernl'ore, has Tira said he will aceept his 
Registration goes smoothly despite changes 
Registrar's office reports new course numbers, insideND do not stall process 
By JEN ROWLING 
Nrw• Wri1cr 
ThP lirst round ol' student<.;, rising sPniors, SlHTPssl'ully n•gistPrPd fiw l'all 2005 d<L'iSI'S Monday using tlw nPw insideNI> website and new COlii'SP rl'gist.ration numbers. 
Tlw switch from lrishLink to insidnNI >IK'rurrnd as a rnsult ol' tho UniVPrsity's need to modify tlw hardware platfllrms. 
"i\houl two-and-a-hall' yn;u'S ago, our rurTPnt hardwan• provider WIL'i IIPwlett-Parkard, and thny said tfmt it. lour program! wouldti't bn sup­portml again all.nr 2005," A'isistant H1~gistrar Doug McKm111a said. "BPing on an unsupported platfhnn is not g<KKI fiw a Univnrsity." 
ThP l!mwvarP project had bonn tlw leading impPtus bnhind the modifkations, McKenna said. lll'nova.m. Latin fhr "renewal," eon­slitutes Notre Dame's efTorts to rPplare il'i straleJ.,'k administrative infilrmat.ion systPms. Tho project divid1'S tf11• infiwmation systnm into five kny aroas: Finance, St.udnnt/Faculty Systmn, !Iuman HesiJUrens!PaynJII, Dnvnlopmnnt and Ancillaries. The project's mis­sion is to improvn data arrns.'i m1d integration for mmnbnrs of' the 
see INSIDEND/page 6 




Events prom_ote increased awareness of Africa 
reaching for your wallet," said By KAREN LANGLEY Hanzlik. "While thorn are so News Writer many areas in which the 
United States is strong nnough 
Students across campus to help Africa, thorn arn other have banded tognther to pres­ways in which Africa 1:an help ent Notrn Dame with Africa the United States. Africa is so Wenk, a l'nw days of awarn­strong in faith, and it provides ness designnd to increasn so many of the wmld's priests 
empathy for people in the con­and nuns." tinent. The mission statement of 
People all too often react to Africa Week exprnsses this tlw tragedies in Al'riea simply desire to help the problems or by handing ovnr money, said Afriea while raising apprecia­junior Meghan Hanzlik, a tion of the continent's many 
member of the organizing facets. committee. "Solidarity doesn't mean just see AFRICNpage 6 
...' 
.. 

MP's invitation to travPI to Derbyshire to intern them "at least once during t.lw 1deetion." lie also said that hn is exeilPd at tho opportunity to witness an nleetion first-hand and to partic­ipate in tho campaigning process. 
"I believe that by inl.!~rning this semester I am privileged to nxperience an event that most of Notrn Damn's Parliamnntary interns wnm not ... Ovomll, it is an interesting and vnry murh different political nxpPriencP than any U.S. federal election can be, dun to tlw natur1~ of UK 
see UK/page 4 

COR 
Me1nbers share Monk 
•


Ineinories 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
At Monday's Council of Hnprnsnntatives nwot.ing, st.udl'nt body prnsidnnt Dave Baron asknrl the council to share its fondnst nwmorins of outgoing Univnrsity President Fathnr Edward Malloy. Baron plannnd l.o usn thnir input to lwlp him eomposn a resolution that will thank Malloy li1r his snrv­iee to tlw Univnrsity. 
Formnr senior (:lass prnsidnnt Darrell Scott spoke of Malloy's swift. rnsponsn to tho evnnts of Snpt. II, 2001 . 
"My most inviting memory of Monk occurrnd when I was a l'r11shman. Arter three weeks of school, we had the most shatt.Pr­ing nvnnL'i take placn I on Sept. II, 20011. Father Malloy was instru­mental in crafting a rnsponsn fin· that day of crisis,'' Scott said. "Showing lnadership and sharing hardship mnant a lot to studnnL'i." 
Student body vicn president Lizzi Shappell rem1Hnbernd Monk's solidarity with students choosing to do sorviee aftnr grad­uation. 
"When I havn hnlpnd with the senior send-ofl' for snniors doing servke work after graduation, I lovnd soning his dndkation to stu­dents who make that risky choien," Shappnll said, "It shows his rnspoet fill' thoso who c.hoosn to serve others." 
Club Coordination Council President Beth O'Shaughnessy rmnmnbered Monk fi1r his intm·­action with tho family of Chad Sharon, a Notrn Dame student. found dmtd in the St. .Jon Hiwr in tlw fall of 20m. 
"I saw Monk interact with Chad's family and Monk was so supportive and showed tlw true colors of the Notre Damn family and it li~lt likn wn really were all in it tognthnr," Marchal said. 
see COR/page 6 
Tuesday, April 12, 2005 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Ticket trouble 

Going to Notre Dome will take you far in life. That's almost a given. 
But people don't fully realize the mean­ing behind these words until they experi­ence the benefits of a Notre Dame educa­tion first-hand. 
A Notre Dan1e education could also get 

you out of a ticket.  
I realized this lesson  Dan Tapetillo  
during a 35-hour road  
trip on my way home to Arizona with my  Sports Writer  
Aunt Susie, who by  

chance luck, was making the trek back to Phoenix around the same time as my spring break. 
Think about it. Thirty-five hours. Almost 2,000 miles. I was dreading the trip. 

But adding to my anxiety, I was also nervous about losing my license after promising her I would drive for part of the journey. So I couldn't let her down by telling her I lost my license. Plus, what were the chances that I would be pulled over? 
After getting through the first day and a half, it looked like I would be able to pull off the impossible and avoid getting in trouble with the law. 
However, my luck soon changed. 
For most of the trip, my aunt assumed driving duties, but as we entered Oklahoma, I could begin to see the exhaus­tion setting in my poor aunt's face. 
So, I offered to drive for part of the t.Iip. 
Thirty minutes into my shift, I felt more at ease and decided to start picking up speed to pass slower traffic. I wasn't too worried about getting pulled over because I had not gott<m in trouble since the eighth grade. 
So after I decided to change lanes to pass a semi-truck, I looked back in the rear view mirror. And before I knew it, I was living everybody's greatest fear. 
I saw cop lights flashing and panicked. 

Several thoughts raced through my mind as I pulled over: Shoot, am I going to go to jail? Is my aunt going to get in trouble? 
And when the cop walked up to the win­dow, I did what anybody in my position would do. I stalled. 
I pretended to look for my license in my wallet. My thoughts were interrupted by a battery of impatient knocks on the window. 
From that point on, I was in survival mode. I've heard stories about what hap­pens to you in jail. 
Exasperated, I tried every button in the car trying to lower the window, locking the door twice in the process. Not being one to give up, I finally lowered the window. 
I then heard the words I had been fear­ing the entire trip, "license and registra­tion please." 
With those four words, I saw my life flash before me. I thought all of my hopes for the future would be crushed by this one blemish on my record. 
All I could conjure up was a four-year old expired permit from Arizona. 
It also didn't help that I was in Oklahoma with a car that had an Indiana license plate. 
However, my aunt came to the rescue saying, "Officer ... Dan is a good kid, he goes to Notre Dame and we are driving back to Arizona because he is on his spring break." 
After that, all he asked was, "Son, do you have a license and is it valid." I quickly responded with a 'yes' as my fate still hung in the balance. 
To my surprise, I heard the cop say spiritedly, "Oh those Fighting Irish!" as he quickly gave me back my permit and sped away. 
At that moment, I realized how far Notre Dame really can take you in life. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd. edu 
CORRECTION 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT ROOM PICKS? 

Paul Carlson  Tommy Balmat  Megan O'Hara  Matt Barcus  Corey Mehlos  Erin McDermott  
freshman Dillon  freshman Dillon  freshman Lewis  freshman Dillon  freshman Old College  freshman Lewis  
"I got a good number ­I get to room with this guy."  "Excited about new spooning possibilities. "  "Times like these make me wish I lived in a guys dorm."  "Screw room picks, I'm moving to TC with Monk."  "It's just something I don't have to worry about. "  "Way too complicated for my liking."  





IN BRIEF 
Jack Welch, retired chair-• man of the board and chief executive officer of General Electric Co., will lead a ques­tion-and-answer session and sign copies of his new book "Winning" at a presentation Wednesday at 4:30 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. The event is free and open to the public. 
Author and scholar Adela Cortina will speak on the ethics of development and recognize the career achievements of Notre Dame economist Denis Goulet at 5 p.m. Thursday in the Hesburgh Center auditori­um. Cortina will put forward a model of development ethics in a talk titled "Development Ethics: A Road to Peace." 
The Keough Institute for Irish Studies will host the annual meeting of the American Conference for Irish Studies from Wednesday to Sunday. The five-day meeting, entitled "Ireland Beyond Borders," will include lectures by Seamus Deane, Keough Professor of Irish Studies at Notre Dame, and numerous other Irish writ­ers. 
Philipp Rosemann of the University of Dallas will give a lecture Tuesday from 5 p.m. to 6:15p.m. entitled "The Story of a Great Medieval Book: Peter Lombard's Sentences: From the Sentences to Abbreviation and Glosses." The event will take place in the Medieval Institute Reading room in 715 Hesburgh Library. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

~ 
~ 

HIGH 64 HIGH 63 LOW 40 LOW 42 

DUSTIN MENNELLNThe Observer 
In honor of Africa Awareness Week, a t-shirt exchange was set up In front of O'Shaughnessy Hall Monday. Students donated an old t-shirt and received a free Africa week shirt in return. 
OFFBEAT 

Woman arrested after years of blasting music 
TOKYO-Japanese police arrested a 58-year-old woman for triggering insomnia and headaches in her next door neighbor by blasting rock music at her almost continuously for over two years. · 
Miyoko Kawahara was arrested on suspicion of inflicting injury on the 64­year-old woman by playing loud, fast-paced dance music almost 24 hours a day on a portable stereo she had pointed at her neigh­bor's house 20 feet away. 
Police launched their investigation after doctors diagnosed the neighbor with insomnia and headaches they attributed to the noise, a local police spokesman said on condition of anonymity. 
The police said Kawahara started blasting the sounds in November 2002. 
Hissing Canada goose greets Iowa shoppers 

DES MOINES, Iowa ­Customers of a south side print shop beware of the hissing goose. For the sec­ond year in a row, a Canada goose has made the front door area of Artcraft Inc., her home. Mother Goose, as she's called, greets cus­
tamers by hissing at them. Last year, she hatched a gosling just a few feet from 
the front  door.  She  has  
already made a  nest this  
year.  

"I had one customer call from a cell phone and ask if she would bite," said Judi Williams, the company's office manager. "She hisses, but she doesn't bite. Otherwise, everybody thinks she's pretty cool." 
Iowa Department of Natural Resources officials said geese have no teeth and don't carry rabies. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
IX 
1.&.1 
:::1: 

!ci: 
1.&.1 

3: 
...1 
.-( (,) 


...I 0 HIGH 55 HIGH 36 HIGH 58 HIGH 59 LOW 48 LOW 30 LOW 35 LOW 37 
~
~ 
Atlanta 66 I 52 Boston 48 I 38 Chicago 52 I 39 Denver 61 I 39 Houston 801 54 Los Angeles 73 I 53 Minneapolis 56 1 39 New York 53/ 38 Philadelphia 55 I 36 Phoenix 87 I 63 Seattle 49 I 38 St. Louis 65 I 51 Tampa 82 I 68 Washington 56 1 41 
' . 
• 0 
0 •• 

Tuesday, April 12, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOG 
Men1bers discuss spring visitation day 

By KELLY BALE 
News Writer 
With nnthusiasm and a bright srn i ~~~. Saint Mary's Student Body l'residnnt Kellye Mitros wekomed the 2005-2006 Board of Governance to its first ollieial rne!1ting Monday night. 
Hecently el!1ctml and appoint­ed board membnrs assum!1d their new positions in the stu­dent government conference room and presented information of recent and upcoming events to fellow board members. 
Admission Commissioner Anni<~ Davis said that 160 high school students, along with their family members, are already registered for the Saint Mary's "Spring Day on Campus," which will be held April 17. 
"This is the biggest 'Spring Day on Campus' we have ever had," Davis said. "There are ovnr 500 people register!1d and we are getting more by the day." 
Davis requested that board membnrs who are available sign up to give campus tours throughout the day. 
BOG approved donating $200 to help buy thank you gifts for speakers who are coming to campus to present during the Fire and Safety Fair on April 21. Fifteen to twenty groups will have tables set up in the lobby of the new student center from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. on April 21 and will be handing out infor­mation on various safety issues 
The Class of 2006 has begun planning for the 2005 Senior Dad's Weekend, which will be held Sept. 30 to Oct. 2. Because it is being held so early next fall, the 2006 Board plans to have the event fully organized by the end of this school year. 
Contact Kelly Bale at kbaleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
CLC 

Group reviel'Vs election dates 
By MADDIE HANNA 
A.sociate News Editor 
Members of the Campus Life Council (CLC) discussed the con­troversy surrounding student body election dates as well as the possibility of implementing a security e-mail list and a "diversi­ty designated" course require­ment Monday at thPir second-to­last mooting of tim year. 
During a March 15 meeting, the CLC discussed a resolution proposing eledion deadline com­pliance but ultimately failed to reach a conelusion since next year's election dates were not known at the time. Two days lator, a heated 90-minutn Student Senate diseussion focused on a resol~tion proposing to change next year's election dates. The resolution did not pass, leaving many members of student gov­ernment wondering about next year's situation. 
Brio Anderson, president of the Judicial Council, which was the driving force behind the election date resolutions, acknowledged dissent to the proposed changes. Previously, rectors argued that earlier election dates would not give students applying for resi­dent assistant positions or study abroad programs enough flexi­bility in running for a position in student government. 
"It's complicated because I respect and understand the way rectors want to [conduct elec­tions] on their own terms," Anderson said. "But you get problems when students are moving ofT campus." 
Anderson said she felt the reso­lution was a lost cause at this point, noting that Siegfried sena­tor James Leito would be taking up the issue next year p1mding the Council of Representatives' approval of him as Judicial Council president. 

"I think my best advke regard­ing this resolution is not to pass it." Anderson said. 
Leito said he plamwd to struc­ture next year's calendar by the end of this semest1w and would prosent. it to the CU: early next fall in order t.o receive rector input. 
"A'> long as there's communi­cation. I think it'll be all right," Leito said. 
Responding to questions about the benefits of early election dates, student body president Dave Baron said a longer transi­tion period would help newly elected senators adjust. 
"You need that amount of time to 'transishe' eorrectly," Baron said. "Senators need a month to learn the procedures and eome to an adequate number of meet­
ings." · 

Given the logistical difficulty in planning the election dates, Leito said there was no perfect solu­tion. 
"Having five things decided by March 1 -that's just something we're going to have to deal with," he said. 
A resolution, read by O'Neill senator and security task force chair Alex French, regarding an off-campus security e-mail list wa~ passed unanimously and for­warded to Student Affairs. The proposed e-mail list will be sent bi-monthly to all undergraduate and graduate students with information provided by NDSP and the South Bend Police about recent security issues ofl'-eam­pus. 
French said NI>SI' had been enthusiastie about. his commit­tee's proposal. 
"They've been grnatly in liLvor of it," Frnnch said. "INI>SI' assis­tant direetorl Phil .Johnson said he's been trying to look into something like this bef(m•." 
In order to detnrmine stud1•nt interest, French said the n-mail would lw sent out twice hPf'orP the end of' the year to sen how many students unsuhscribPd from the list. 
Cavanaugh senator and social r.oncerns l<L'>k f(m~e dmir .Jordan Bongiovanni said lmr eommit.tPe had been "narrowing down its dirndion" with the goal of insti­tuting a "diversity designatl~d course" rnquirmwmt. 
The cours1~ will not be an addi­tional rnquirmnent, Bongiovanni said, but would count towards anotlwr already existing requirn­ment. She gave an example of' economics tm~jors being able to take a course about the econom­ics of' I .atin America to fulfill the requirement. 
"We're finding that we're merging with part of the upcom­ing Board of Trustees report," Bongiovanni said. "A big quns­tion for our task three would be, do we want our goals to diverge with the BOT report. and how?" 
Baron said he thought the social eoncerns task force should continue to work dosely with himsnlf and formnr studnnt body president Adam Istvan as they developed thnir BOT report. 
"We've really bmm abln to usn the research that this task forcn put together to create a modnl," Baron said. 
Contact Maddie Hanne at mhannal@nd.edu 








Monk's Farewell Mass 
Sunday, April 17th 
9:00 p.m. at the JACC 
Al1 students are invited to attend "Monk's Farewell Mass." Mass will be followed by a reception in honor of Fr. Malloy in the JACC Monogram Room., featuring: '""'Live performance by the Chicago band MAGGIE SPEAKS'""' '""'Fr. Malloy will be on hand to greet students'""' -Great food'""' Come celebrate with Monk and thank him for 18 years of service 
to the Student Body of the University of Notre Dame. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 12, 2005 
UK 
ance pass has limited the tasks he has been able to do and the access he has 
been afforded. 
continued from page 1 "The combination of the election and not getting my security pass has made it politics," he said. difficult for me to get any time with my Junior history and political science MP or to get to really experience major Sarah Sibley said she also plans to Parliament like those [interns] from other travel to her MP's constituency (Crosby, semesters. Unlike the [intern] before me, near Liverpool) and looks forward to the I wasn't able to go to meetings, observe 
experience.  my  MP  in  action,  
"All of my active  etc.," he said.  
duties and projects in the Westminster office ended in late March in anticipation of the election. However, I will be fly­ing up to Liverpool in May to help cam­paigning for a couple  ''Apparently, I will be riding a giant blue election bus with a megaphone while holding out tree branches for the constituents to grab, or some crazy election campaigning like that. "  Kurtz also said that his ability to cam­paign is relatively unknown at this point, and that, although he will probably be able to assist on some level with the campaign­ 
of days preceding the  ing, he believes that  
election," she said. "Apparently, I will be riding a giant blue  Sarah Sibley intern  he is in the minority of Notre Dame MP interns this term who  
election bus with a  will be able to do so  

megaphone while holding out tree because of the distance from London to branches for the constituents to grab, or their constituencies. some crazy election campaigning like "I would like to help out on the cam­that." paign, although I will admit I would be 
Sibley said that class commitments will one of the few students actually working prevent her from spending more than "a after the election has been called because couple of days before the election" help­most work for MPs whose constituencies ing to campaign. are too far away for them to travel to 
Despite the shortened internship, Sibley them easily or often. I might get to do feels lucky to have been able to witness a work, or I might get to just observe, it's British election during her time abroad. not really certain," he said. 
"While I wish that my internship had "My MP has basically told me that he's lasted until I left in May, it is also incredi­too busy to deal with me. I have no idea bly exciting to be part of a political cam­what I'll be doing, other than observing paign, even if it is only for a short period the campaign, and maybe going to of time," she said. "I get to learn about speeches and meetings," he said. the fundamentals of electoral polities and Marlena Mangan, a junior who was political campaigning through this elec­abroad in Fall 2004 and worked as an MP tion on a level that other interns perhaps intern, said she believes that both the did not." normal-length internship and the short­
While some interns seem satisfied in ened-internship with the possibility of their experiences, others, like junior Will campaigning in and at least witnessing an Kurtz, said they are disappointed about election are beneficial. the shortening of their internships. Kurtz "I am glad I had the full semester," she said an inability to get a security clear-said. "However, if I had the opportunity to work in the election process, I'm sure become more knowledgeable about that would have been great and interest­British politics as they live through the ing as well. The thing about the intern­excitement of a British general election. ship is that everyone has a unique experi­He also said he hopes interns view the ence, so I would imagine that this semes­experience of witnessing an election as a ter is no different in that regard; it is just positive and unique opportunity. a bit more unique." "We would encourage all our 
Parliamentary interns to view the current Calling of the Election situation as a unique opportunity to deep­
Both interns and administrators said en their understanding of British politics. that the calling of the election was no sur­Only rarely do Notre Dame students get prise. It was widely discussed in the such a fascinating opportunity to inspect British media and by British citizens, and the democratic processes of a foreign interns were informed of the possibility country in such intimate detail," he said. during the London Program's interviews Terri Bays, an associate director of the for the internship positions and at other London Program at Notre Dame, said that times throughout the year. she understands how some interns may 
Cornelius O'Boyle, an associate director be disappointed with a shortened intern­of the London Program who resides in ship in comparison with students from London and handles the internship devel­other years. However, she hopes students 
opment, said that all  will see the potential  
interns met yesterday to discuss possibilities for maximizing their  "The combination of the election and not getting  benefits of viewing and campaigning for a British election.  
involvement in the election process. Furthermore, he said that the actual intern­ my security pass has made it difficult for me to get any time with my MP  "First ... I under­stand the disappoint­ment experienced by those whose intern­ 
ship is  not the only  or to get to really  ships  are  cut short.  
involvement that London students have with British politics; the internship also  experience Parliament like those [interns} from other semesters. "  Second, a significant aspect of political life in a democracy is hav­ing one's projects dis­ 
requires an academic  rupted by the electoral  
class and a workshop. 'The general election certainly does not  Will Kurtz intern  process," she said. "Finally, it must be said that the opportunity to  
mark the end of their  observe, close-up, a  

engagement with British politics. All our completely different electoral process is interns are enrolled in a formal academic invaluable, and because of this the stu­class designed exclusively for dents in London this semester are to be Parliamentary interns, which provides envied rather than pitied." them with the theoretical framework for their understanding of a Parliamentary Editor's note: This article was primari­system of democracy," he said. "The class ly reported in Oxford, England, and pri­also provides a workshop environment in marily written in Dallas, Texas. which interns can share with each other their personal experiences, with the guid­ance and support of a professor of politi­cal sciences on hand." Contact Joe Trombello at 
O'Boyle said the class will help interns jtrombel@nd.edu 




Law& • • • 
An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series 
April13, 2005 4:00p.m. Law School Courtroom 
Classical Architecture and Traditional Urbanism: Sustainability Trumps Style 
Presenter Michael Lykoudis 
School ofArchitecture 
Commentator Nicole Stelle Garnett 

The Law School 




ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday. April 12, 2005 CoMPILED FROM TI-·IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. promises Sudan $1.7 billion 
OSLO. Norway -lloping to invigorate Sudan's JHHU~I~ procnss, tho United States will promisn morn than $1.7 billion in humani­tarian and reconstruction aid !'or the war­ravagnd ;\l'rican ('OUntry, tho No. 2 suite D1~partnwn t ollicial said Monday. 
I lnputy Soerotary of' Statn Hobnrt Zonlliek is aw~nd ing an in tnrnational con f'eroneo for donors to Sudan this wonk. whore he will formally announen the pledge, pn~ss for pro).{rnss in tlw wnstorn region of Darfur and rally othnr countrins to do tho same. 
Zoollirk said Monday that Sudan. Africa's largost rountry, is at a crossroads. It can nwvn toward pnaeoful reconciliation by stop­ping violnnrn in Darfur and implenwnting tlw agrnPnwnt tlw warring North and South n~adwd in January to end a 22-year civil war that has tak1~n morn than 2 million livos, lw said. 
Hospital ward may be shut down 
I.ISilON, Portugal -Tlw Angolan health min­istry may shut down tho isolation ward of an Angolan hospital trnating victims of tho Ebola­likn Marhurg virus to stom the spn~ad of tho dis­nasn, an Angolan lwalth ollicial said Monday. 
A tl'am of' World I hmlth Organization oxporL'i was visiting tlw ward in Angola's Uigo province to Pvaluatn tlw situation and a decision could bn rnadwd in 4X to 72 hours,' health official Filonwna Wilson said. 
Wilson said tlw dndsion would take into arrount tlw nm~ds of pati1~nL'i who go to the hos­pital lilr otlwr illrwssns. 
Tho mmlil:al charity Doctors Without Borders and tlw WIIO havo advisnd that tho hospital be shut down temporarily until the outbrnak is ~~ontainnd. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Democrats challenge Bolton on U.N. 
WASIIINGI'ON -I lis Sonate approval to bo 
U.N. ambassador still in question, .John H. Bolton told skoptkal Dmnocral'i on Monday that tho world body had "gono oil' track" at times but that he was committed to its mission. 
Democrats at Bolton's Senate Foreign Hnlations Committee. confirmation hearing rodtnd his past undiplomatic remarks about the United Nations and wondered aloud why he would evnn want the job. They also challenged him over allnged bullying of government intelli­gnnee oflkials who· disagreed with him on issuns induding Cuba's weapons capabilities. 
"If conlirnwd, I pledge to fulfill thP president's vision of working in dose partnp,rship with the Unitnd Nations," Bolton said. 

DeLay's PACs solicited donations 
WA'-)1 IINGTON -Fund-raisers for a politieal committnn li1undnd by I louse Majority Loader Tom l>nLay routinely solicited donations by identifying ln).{isfative aetions that prospnctive ).{ivnrs wanted, from video gambling to lawsuit limil'i, mmnos show. 
"What c:ompanifls that you know of would be intnrnstnd in tort rnlilrm in Texas with asbestos probloms that might. support THMPAC?" one DnLay limd-raisnr wrote in a memo prospecting for donors to tlw Texans for a Hepublican M1~jority l'olitieal Adion Committee (THMPAC). 
That mnmo nlidted an answer identifying sev­eral fargn companies and interest groups nationwide internst1~d in limiting lawsuil'>. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Time fading on daylight savings bill 
INiliANAPOI.IS -Tho clock is winding down on daylight-saving time in Indiana, which facPs a kny votn in tho lngislaturn to rmnain alivn for thn n~st of tho snssion. 
"Thn votn is just too dose to call," said state H1~p. Gerald 'Ii1rr, the Carmel Hepublican shop­herding the issun through the logislaturn. 
Sonatn Bill 127 rnquiros all of Indiana to turn iL'i docks forward in the spring and back in tho fall. If tlw lngislation gPL'> thn support of at lmtst 5 I I lousn rnnmbnrs, the bill will move to tlw SnrHttn for consideration for the lirst time since JIJR3. 

Bush -warns Sharon about settletnents 
Israel will not move forward on iroad map' until Palestinians disarnz militants 
Associated Press 
CHAWFOHD, Texas ­President Bush told Israeli Prime Ministnr Arinl Sharon on Monday he must not allow further West Bank sot­tlnrnlmt growth and said Israeli and Palestinian doubts about each other wnre hampering peaee prospeel'i. 
In response, Sharon said that Israel would abide by tho intnrnationaffy negotiat­ed "road map" peace plan, whieh ealls for a settlement froeze, but would keop some large Jewish population blocs in the West Bank undor its eoi1trol. 
At a joint news eonlimmce on Bush's ranch, both lead­ers soundod pessimistic about near-term prospects li1r poace. 
Sharon said lsranl would not move forward on the road map until Palestinian loader Mahmoud Abbas did moro to disarm militant groups and brought about "a full cessation of' terror, hos­tilitios and incitement." 
"We will continue with the negotiations only after Palestinians agree to stop the terror," Sharon said. 

Bush citod "a lack of confi­dence. in the region. I ean understand that. There's been a lot of death. A lot of innocent people have lost engage from Gaza and part settlement activity literally unmalistk to oxp1~et Israel to their lives. And there's just of' the West Bank" and urged means wo will not be able to pull back to the borders that not a lot of confidence on Palestinian loaders to accept talk about the two-stato existed before tho 196 7 war. either side." the prime minister's offer to solution, vision or no vision." Bush eitnd "nnw realities 
But il' Israel's withdrawal coordinate the withdrawal. The United States has on the ground." from Gaza eomes off suc­At the same time, Bush objected to an Israeli plan to Bush had praise for the cessfully, then, "I think we'll said he had not budged in add 3,650 homes to the West Palestinian leadership, but have a different l'rame of his opposition to settlement Bank's largest settlement, also made doar more must mind" more conducivo to oxpansion. Maaleh Adumim. The plan be done. "We want to contin­pursuing peace, Bush said. "I've been very clear. would eut oil' Arab neighbor­uo to work with them on "To me, that's where the Israel has an obligation hoods in Jerusalem from tho consolidating security attontion of the world ought under the road map. That's rest of the West Bank. forees," he said. to be, on Gaza." no expansion of settle­Israel insists it has the Abba..'i will meet with Bush 
Israel is to quit all 21 Gaza ments," Bush said. right to continue oxpanding in Wa..'ihinJ.,rton next month. settlements and four more in In Ramalfah on the West this and several other major Standing under bright sun­the West Bank this summer. Bank, the Palestinian .Jewish enclaves established shine near a large cactus, The operation will remove Authority urged Sharon to on formerly Arab-eontrolfod the ground near thorn eov­about 9,000 Israelis from heed Bush's words. lands al'ter tho 1967 Mideast Prod with blunbonnot flow­their homes. "I believe this is the key to War. ers, Bush and Sharon talked 
Israeli officials have everything," Palestinian Despite his opposition to outsido a now one-story become incrp,asingly worried negotiator Saob Erekat said new settlement activity, building that Bush uses as about violence in the West in a telephone interview Bush in a show of support an olliee on his 1,700-aere Bank. with The Associated Press. for Sharon's leadership ranch. Aftnrward. Bush took 
Bush praised Sharon's "Failure to adhere to the repeated a statement he first Sharon on a tour of his "courageous initiative to dis-president's call to stop all made last April that it is ranch and they had fund1. 

IRAQ 


American abducted; car bombs target troops 
American eontraetor, who was work­into the hospital. Most ol' the injured
Associated Press 

ing on a reconstruction projeet, had were women and ehildwn, hospital 
BAGIIDAD, Iraq -A U.S. contrac­beon abducted around noon. He ollieial 1\bdul Nasir Hamid said. Tho tor was kidnapped Monday in the refused to release an identity or other incident was in the Sunni Triangle, a Baghdad area, tho latest in a string of details, but said the contractor's fam­stronghold of the insurgency. abductions that have forced many ily had been informed. Early Monday, suicide bombers foreigners to work here under armed In Samarra, a troubled city 60 tried to erash. two ears and a fire guard. A pickup truek also explodod milos north of Baghdad, a pickup truck into Camp Gannon in thn west­noar a U.S. convoy as it patrolled a truck blew up near a U.S. patrol, ern desort, but "the drivers of tho crowded market in the troubled eity killing three civilians and wounding vehides were stopped short of thn of Samarra, killing at least three peo­more than 20 others, including four camp by forcos manning the dwck­ple and injuring more than 20 others. U.S. soldiers, officials said. One sol­points," a U.S. military statnment 
Three suicide bombers also hit a dier was evacuated for modieal treat­said. Marine outpost in western Iraq, mont, and the othors wero treated The vohiclos exploded, wounding wounding three Marines and three and returned to duty, the U.S. mili­throe Marines and throe civilians and civilians in an attaek claimed by tary said. causing slight damage to the concrete Iraq's most feared terror groups. Loudspeakers urged residents to barriers and a nearby mosqtw, U.S. 
A U.S. Embassy spokosman said tho donate blood as the wounded poured ollieials said. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 12, 2005 

Africa 
continued from page 1 
According to the statement, composed by member of Africa Faith and Justice Network (AFJN), "With pas­sion, leadership, and dedica­tion of the clubs, we have cre­ated a week dedicated to rais­ing awareness of the many, beautiful African cultures and the challenges that face this continent ... It is the hope of the AFJN-Notre Dame chapter that other campuses around the United States will follow the example of the Notre Dame students in embracing and answering the 'Call to Solidarity' with Africa." 
Hanzlik spoke of the passion and dedication of all the stu­dent groups who have been working on Africa week. She felt that Notre Dame has exactly the right atmosphere to enable change. 
"We feel that Notre Dame has such a passionate student body that if you put on the table the problems and issues that call us to action, people will take action," she said. 
She cited the example of DPAC's presentation of the film "Hotel Rwanda," which was prompted by efforts of the Sudan Steering Committee, as a recent awareness event. The film sold out at both showings. 
Many events have been planned for Africa Week. On Sunday evening, luminaries were displayed on South Quad to bring celebrate and bring attention to the cause. Offerings were also made at dorm masses.· On Monday evening, an African themed mass was held in the Keenan­Stanford Chapel. There was also a booth set up in front of O'Shaughnessy Hall from 11 
a.m. -4 p.m. at which stu­dents could either donate an old t-shirt or money in exchange for a "One Family: Africa Week" shirt. All mone­tary donations will support the Nomadic Kenya Education Fund, which requires only $500 to send a Kenyan person to high school. The clothes will be sent to African villages. 
On Tuesda~ the Sudan Steering Committee and the African Students Association (ASA) will hold a Sudan­Darfur Benefit Dinner at 6 p.m. in Coleman-Morse. The dinner will cost $5. 

"We will be working with ASA to cook authentic African and Indian food," said Patrick Corrigan, a member of the Sudan Steering Committee. "All proceeds go to the Genocide Intervention Fund, which donates to African Union soldiers who work as a peace-keeping force in Darfur." 
Kim Mazyck of Catholic Relief Services will give the lecture "Africa Rising, Hope and Healing! A Campaign for Change in Africa" on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune. On Thursday, South Dining Hall will feature "Taste of Africa Cuisine" at dinner. 
On Friday, M. Karana Dharma of the Africa Working Institute will present "Supply­Side Humanitarianism and the Salience of Indigenous Approaches to Peace-Building in the Democratic of Congo" at 1 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center. 
The week will conclude on Saturday with Afrika Nite, an event sponsored by the African Students Association. Afrika Nite will feature Dances Across Africa, drama narra­tion and music. The event will take place at Washington Hall. 
Emily Chin, a member of ASJN, expressed her thoughts on the week. 
"Basically, our goal is to educate Notre Dame students to the issues plaguing the African continent and also to expose them to its beauty and culture," she said. "It's really easy to get involved, and we're hoping that everyone can par­ticipate. We have a lot of let­ter-writing campaigns, includ­ing to Senator Lugar, Chair of the Foreign Relations Committee." 
Besides AFJN, ASA and the Sudan Steering Committee, the many sponsors of Africa Week include Amnesty International, Campus Mini­stry, Class Councils, Food Services, the Institute for Church Life, ISSA, the Kellogg Institute, Mendoza College of Business, Office of the President, Student Activities, Student Government, SUB and the Theology Department. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 
council. 

Baron, speaking on behalf of former judicial class present Brin Anderson who could not~attend the meeting, told representatives that Leito's student government experience makes him a perfect fit for the job. 
"James gives a tireless commit­ment to student government. He is qualified for this position," Baron said. 
Representatives also approved Steven Miller as a non-voting member of COR. Miller will serve as director of communications, a new position created to help bridge the gap between student government and the student body. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

COR 
continued from page 1 
The Council also approved four new officeholders. 
Adding two new members to their council, the sounding board of the student body president took one step closer to assembling itself completely. 
Student body president Dave Baron nominated Vijay Ramadan for the position of academic dele­gate. Vijay will represent the stu­dent body and be a voting mem­ber of the University academic council. 
"Vijay will be one of the few stu­dents who sits on a policy-making body of the University. He has a fine degree of professionalism and he is articulate in his convictions," Baron said. 
Newly-elected sophomore class president Erin Mulholland nomi­nated Kyle Karches as liason for the freshman class council for the 2005-2006 term. He will serve as a resource for incoming freshman representatives and help ease the transition from high school stu­dent council to Notre Dame's stu­dent government. 
"Kyle is a really great people­person. As a lia<>on he will work to acclimate the freshman to a new government system. He is really qualified for this position," Mulholland said. 
Council members also approved James Leito as judicial council president. In this role, he will be charged with several responsibili­ties including overseeing campus elections and sitting on the execu­tive committee for the judicial time-out. 
"The old system just couldn't han­dle 200, 400, 700 concurrent users," said McKenna. "This system is much more robust." 
"Registration Time Ticketing" refers to the time when students can start registering for classes. From this time up until the seventh class day of the new semester, students can make schedule changes. 
I lalf of the incoming senior class registered for classes Monday and no major problems were reported. 
"We want to make sure that the load on the system is well-distrib­uted. We've been monitoring it all day and so far there have been no issues," said McKenna. 
The University has also had a lim­ited number of complaints concern­ing the new registration system and time tickets. 
"There was some initial grum­bling about the layout of insideND," said McKenna. "Ultimately, we changed the set-up and just put it alphabetically to avoid confusion." 
Kate Antonacd contributed to this story. 
Contact }en Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 


insideND 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame student body, faculty and staff, according to the Renovare website. 
InsideND became available for use Feb. 7. The site allows students to acquire personal information, register for classes and check final grades. lnsideND also contains loca­tions to contact professors and access Webmail. 
There are several changes in the registration process this year, aside from the elimination of IrishLink. The Course Reference Number (CRN) has replaced the Call Number of a particular course, McKenna said. Additionally, a new course numbering scheme has been imple­mented -all of the courses now consist of five numeric digits. 
The first digit of the course num­ber defines the level of the course. One through five suggests under­graduate courses, while six through nine indicate graduate level. The second digit designates the type of course, such as tutorial, seminar and study abroad. Zero will be com­monly seen indicating a traditional classroom course. 
According to McKenna, academic 
departments were running out of 
new course numbers, as they can­
not be changed for five years. 

The new numeric system provides 
academic course management, giv­
ing departments more freedom in 
naming courses, McKenna said. 

"The five digit numbering scheme 
really broadened the available 
course numbers and it gave the 
departments the ability to number 
in a meaningful way," McKenna 
said. 

Students who would like to ascer­
tain the new course number of a ·previous class can find the modifica­tion in the Course Inventory applica­tion, McKenna said. The new five­digit course numbers have been programmed in the new system as replacements to the past three digit 
course numbers. 

Another change to course regis­tration this year is that students no longer have only 15 minutes to choose classes. Previously, students were unabln to regain access to the registration site until 5 p.m. of the registration day. Now, though new students registering will still be added at 15-minute intervals, their ability to access the site does not 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Tuesday, April 12, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 


10,448.56 -12.78
}ones  
Up: 1,423  Same: 161  Down: Composite Volume: • 1,545,933,020  
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE S&PSOO  I,47 5. 19 1,992.12 7,189.42 1,181.21  +7.60 -7.23 +7.92 +0.01  

NIKKEI(Tol<yo) 11,696.06 -49.58 FTSE IOO(London) 4,973.20 -10.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) -0.44 -0.16 36.48 MICROSOFf CP (MSFf) +0.12 +0.03 24.97 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +0.50 +0.09 17.99 INTEL CP (INTC) -0.73 -0.17 23.12 MCI INC (MCIP) +0.66 +0.17 26.0 I 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.88 -0.42 47.33 I0-YEAR NOTE -1.02 -0.46 44.45 5-YEARNOTE -0.84 -0.35 41.18 3-MONTH BILL -0.55 -0.15 26.97 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.39 53.71 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +I .60 430.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.93 91.88 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 07.6000 EURO 0.7704 POUND 0:5287 CANADIAN$ 1.2332 
IN BRIEF Judge calls testimony 'self-serving' 
WASIIINGTON -A federal judge said Monday the !wad of Philip Morris USA had submittnd "2-to 300 pages of self-serving tes­timony" describing "oh how wonderful we arn" in a eivil racket11ering case the govern­nrnnt lilml against major U.S. cigarnttc mak­nrs. 
U.S. District Judge Gladys Kessler's com­nwnts came aftnr a governmnnt lawyer object­od to bning barred from a line of questions on Miduwl E. Szymanczyk's claims that the com­pany opnratns under a set of core values that hn helpnd write. 
Szymanczyk, the chairman and chief cxecu­tivn orticnr of Philip Morris, was not in the room wlwn Kesslnr made her comment about his written testimony, whieh was filnd before his court appearance. 
In his written testimony, as in court, Szymanczyk argued the leading cigarette manufacturer has become more socially responsible since he became chief executive in 1997. 

Ford cuts profit outlook; stocks lower 
NEW YOHK -Stocks driftnd lownr in quiet trading Monday as oil prices edged upward and concnrns about tho automotive sector intonsiliml aftnr Ford Motor Co. slashed its profit outlook for tho year. 
Investors initially welcomed reports that OPH: plans another production increase in May to meet stnady dmnand. Crude futures dimbnd higher, however, bmaking a live-ses­sion stnmk of lower prices. A barrel of light erudo settled 39 cchts higher at $53.71 on the Nnw York Mercantiln Exchange. 
Falling oil priens helpnd the major indexes post wenkly gains for tho first time in a month, hut crudo futures remain high and analysts warnnd that invnstors will need to see strong lirst-quartnr earnings over the next few weeks for stocks to rncovnr further. Ford's announce­ment fed doubts about whether corporate America ean keep profits up in the face of high nnergy costs. 
"IUght now, you sec the economy growing and things are looking pretty good, despite all the worries," said llans Olsen, managing director and chief investment officer at Bingham Legg Advisers. 
News media joins trade secrets dispute 
Apple Conzputer Inc. maintains that company information must remain private 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -Morn than a half-dozen nnws organizations arc support­ing three onlirw journalists who published articlns about a top-snen~t teehnolo­gy product that Apple Computer Inc. says was proteetE~d by trade sncrnt laws. 
In Dncnmber, Apple sued 25 unnamed individuals ­presumed to be Apple mnployees -who allegedly lnaked confidential product information to three people who run W11b sites widely read by Apple enthusiasts. The Cupertino-based com­pany said the leaks violated nondisclosure agreenwnts and California's Uniform Trade Secrets Act. 
Apple then demanded that the online reporters' Internet providers identify tho leakers by turning over e-mail reeords. The online reporters sought to block th11 subpoenas, saying that identifying sources would create a "chilling effect". that could erode the media's ability to report in the pub­lic's interest. 

Santa Clara County Superior Court Judge James Kleinberg ruled in Apple's favor last month, saying that reporters who publish "stolen property" aren't entitled to protections. The online reporters then provider turn over e-mail protections provided to the the nonprofit frne speech appnaled. records, the companies news media to inform the organization California First 
Now the mainstream said, Apple should "exhaust public are wiped away." Amendment Coalition. media have weighed in: all alternative sources" of Joining the brief were the Apple spokesman Steve eight of California's largest identifying the source of the Tribune Co.'s Los Angeles Dowling wouldn't comment newspapers and The leaks. Times, Hearst Newspapers' spneifically on tho modia Associated Press submitted "Hecent corporate sean­San Franeisco Chroniele, companies' bl'inf but a court brief Thursday ask­dais involving Worldcom, Knight Ridder Inc.'s San emphasizod that Appln ing that the online publish­Enron and the tobacco Jose Mercury News, The must protnct its product ers be allowed to keep their industry all undoubtedly Copley Press Inc.'s San secrets. sources confidential. involved the reporting of Diego Union-Tribune and "Apple's DNA is innova­
The media companies information that the compa­Freedom Communications tion, and protection of trade said Kleinberg's ruling, if nies involved would have Inc.'s Orange County secrets is crucial to our suc­upheld, could impair the preferred to remain Register, as well as The cess," Dowling said Monday. ability of all journalists to unknown to the public," the McClatchy Co.'s Bee news­Dave Tomlin, assistant reveal important news, 38-page brief stated. "Just papers in Sacramento, general eounsnl for the AP, from financial corruption to because a statute seeks to Fresno and Modesto. Also said the case has implica­government cover-ups. protect secrecy of such supporting the brief were tions for bloggers, online Before demanding that the information does not mean the California Newspaper reporters and traditional online publishers' Internet that the First Amendment Publishers Association and journalists. 

Auditors question Halliburton contracts 
treatment. Halliburton's Iraq work questioned
Associated Press 

"Jialliburton has been a good stew­$61 million in charges for fuel from 
WASIIJNGTON -Pentagon auditors ard of the taxpayers' dollars," compa­the same supplier in 2003. have questioned nearly $122 million ny spokeswoman Beverly Scippa said Halliburton has defended its han­in costs claimed by ltalliburton under Monday. She said llalliburton has dling of that subcontract, saying the contracts to rebuild Iraq's oil industry cooperated with the audits. Kuwaiti government would not allow and supply fuel to its citizens, accord­"This is all part of the normal con­it to negotiate for better priees or ing to records released Monday. tracting process, and it is important to choose another supplier. The 
The Democratic congrnssman who note that the auditors' role is advisory Pentagon auditors said llalliburton released the audits said the Bush only," Scippa said in a statement. should not have relind on a hastily administration had withheld the Waxman released a series of signed contract from May 2003 to amounts of the questioned costs from Defense Contract Auditing Agency govern the priec it paid for Kuwaiti the U.N. board overseeing Iraq recon­audits of Halliburton contracts under fuel for nearly a year. struction. California Rep. Henry the Restore Iraqi Oil program. Another $11 million was rnorwy Waxman is a longtime critic of the Halliburton subsidiary KBR was paid llalliburton paid Turkish fuel suppli­administration's treatment of more than $2.5 billion under HIO in ers in retroaetive compensation for a Halliburton, which Vice President 2003 and 2004. jump in oil prices. The Pentagon audi­Dick Cheney headed from 1995 to Most of the latest questioned tors said the retroaetive price hike 2000. charges -$77 million -came during was not allowed by Kim's eontracl'i. 
Cheney and the Pentagon have said December 2003 to March 2004 from Although Turkish suppliers handled the vice president plays no role in Halliburton's subcontract with a a fraction of the fuel supplied to Iraq, contract decisions. Both the company Kuwaiti fuel supplier that has repeat­the audits said the overcharges were and the Defense Department say edly come under criticism by auditors substantial -nearly $500,000 just for Halliburton was not given preferential and critics. One of the first audits of March 2 and 3, 2004, for example. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, Aprill2, 2005 
Alert issued for South Carolina ex-convict 
Associated Press 
MYRTLE BEACH. S.C. -Authorithls have launched a nationwide manhunt for a smooth-talking ex-convict who is suspected of killing two peo­ple and who once vowed he would never return to prison in a book he co-wrote with two professors. 
Stephen Stanko, 37, is sus­pected of strangling a female librarian he lived with and shooting a man to death before stealing his pickup truck. A teenage girl also says Stanko raped her. 
"lie is very dangerous," Horry County police Lt. Andy Christenson said 'Monday. "Anybody who's capable of doing what he did ... is consid­ered armed and dangerous." 
Stanko was released from prison nearly a year ago after serving 8 1/2 years of a 1 0-year sentence for kidnapping. 
Stanko was known as some­one who didn't mind talking about his life in prison, so those who knew him were surprised to learn of the new allegations. 
"He seemed to feel comfort­able letting people know that he was an ex-con," said John Gaumer, who was in a library book group with Stanko. "It did­n't seem to bother him." 
Stanko co-wrote "Living in Prison: A History of the Correctional System With an Insider's View" while in prison with the help of two criminology professors. 
One of the professors, Gordon 

A. Crews, told Florence televi­sion station WBTW he knew Stanko was having a hard time adjusting to life on the outside. 
"Nobody wants a convicted kidnapper working at Best Buy with them," Crews, a criminal justice professor at Roger Williams University in Rhode Island. "The last time I spoke to him, he was very, very depressed. lie was on the verge of giving up," Crews said. 
Several calls to Crews and the other professor, Wayne Gillespie, were not returned to The Associated Press. 
A week ago, Stanko was fired after working for a month as a salesman for Stucco Supply in Myrtle Beach. Jeff Kendall, the company's general manager, described Stanko as a smooth talker who was upfront about his time in prison, but was unre­liable and brought in few sales. 
"He wanted to do everything," Kendall said. "I was the one that gave him a chance. I said, Til give you a chance, but from there, it's up to you."' 
Police said one of the victims was 43-year-old librarian Laura Ling, who shared a home with Stanko and was found strangled Friday. 
Gaumer said Stanko met Ling at the library where the ex-con­vict had said he was working on research for his book. 
"He was a well-dressed, slick, smooth-talking individual. He came across well polished," said Gaumer, who is the director of the llorry County Memorial Library. 
The other victim, 7 4-year-old Henry Lee Turner, was found shot to death in his home Saturday. 
ENGLAND 

Odds stacked in Blair's favor in British 
Conservative Party mounts formidable competition the Labour Party, but expected to lose 
Associated Press 
LONDON -Britain's opposi­tion Conservatives are running almost neck-in-neck with Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labour Party, yet few people give them a chance of winning national elec­tions. 
Quirks in Britain's electoral system mean that -not unlike Al Gore's loss to George W Bush in the 2000 U.S. presidential race -the Conservatives could receive more votes than Labour or any oiher party on May 5 and still lose. 
Polls this week showed the race anywhere between a dead heat and a 7 percentage point advantage for Labour. ' 
But "nobody is imagining that the Conservatives can win, and it is entirely down to the bias in the electoral system," said John Curtice, a political analyst at Stratchlyde University. 
A campaign ad broad(ast Monday showed Blair and Treasury chief Gordon Brown setting out their vision for a third term in office. The short film, crafted with the help of Academy Award-winning director Anthony Minghella, shows the pair sitting closely together in a dimly lit office, brainstorming ideas and chatting like old college friends. 
Like the United States, Britain's parliament does not have pro­portional representation -a sys­tem in which seats are distrib­uted based on the overall vote breakdown nationwide. 
Instead, each of Britain's 646 electoral districts sends one law­maker to the House of Commons. Whoever wins the most votes in each district gets the seat, and the party that gains the most Commons seats forms the gov­ernment. 
Sounds simple, but it makes for a complicated political equation -one that experts agree is cur­rently skewed against the Tories. 
Analysts predict that even if both parties win an equal share of the vote, Labour still would have a Commons majority of 50 seats. 
To win outright, Conservative leader Michael Howard would need a massive 10 or 11 percent­age point lead, analysts say. 
A look at Britain's political map shows several factors working for Labour. 
A large portion of Conservative supporters are in rural districts where Labour voters are scarce. In these areas, the Tories win by a heavy margin, thus "wasting" votes. 
Labour's support is strong in urban areas carved into many smaller electoral districts, where fewer· votes can mean a seat. Labour's support also is efficient­ly distributed across far more constituencies -albeit ones where they have won in recent years by a small margin. 
It all boils down to what the British call "safe seats." Labour has a lot, the Tories relatively few. 


"The key thing is the distribu­tion of the support," said William Jones, a political analyst at Manchester University. "It takes so many fewer votes to elect a Labour MP as their support is piled up in safe constituencies." 
Jones said he did not expect to see a massive shift in support for Howard before the election. 
"Howard needs an earthquake shift and there is nothing in the state of political affairs to indi­cate anything other than a minor tremor on the Richter scale," he said. 
Despite the statistical disad­vantage, the Conservatives remained upbeat. 
Howard on Monday launched his party's election manifesto, declaring: "''m going into battle for Britain." He promised major tax cuts and a crackdown on immigration. 
"It is statistically true that the present distribution of seats favors the Labour Party, but the fact is the Conservative Party are out to win and can do so under this or any other system," said Lord Strathclyde, Conservative leader in the House of Lords. 


Tuesday, April 12, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Cardinal Law's role during mourning of pope protested 

Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY -Barbara BlainP rhrtdwd a piln of hhre and yPIIow lliPrs as slw walked alonn Monday tinto one of l.lw most ven­Pntt«'d sitPs in Catholicism. 
ShP had flown in from Chicago just hours lwforn, eomJwllnd by what slw considen~d ynt anotlwr sign of church indiflim•ncn toward victims of rlnrgy snx abuse. Vatican loaders had asked Cardinal lkrnard Law. who rnsigrwd as Boston archbishop annr mishandling molestation r<L'ins. to lnad an important Mass at St. Pnter's Basilica mourning !'opt~ .lohn Paul II. · 
Within moments, Italian police guarding St. Peter's Square limned a drde around Blaine, tlwn movnd her and a serum of rwws cameras from beneath a sheltnred walkway onto the street in tlw pouring rain. 
A'i orw other molestation vidim stood nParby. she contimwd her protnst. "WP bPiiPvn that Cardinal Law should take a position whP.rn hP is in thn background," she said, standing a few hundrnd yards from the basilica. "We don't bPiiPVP this is appropriate for him to bP in any position of powPr or trust in thn church." 
Law cnlnbrated thn Mass with­out disruption, saying in his homi­ly that Italian, Polish and othnr pil­grims were inspiring in their huge tri-lmh~ to John Paul. Nearly 3 mil­lion mourners flooded Home for the pontill"s funeral last week. 
"In these incredible days, the pope continues to teach us what it means ... to be a follower of Christ," Law said, rnading slowly in Italian. "Our faith has been minforced." 
After the service, several wor­shippers from EuropP. said they had never heard of Law. 
American parishioners said they rc~cognized him, hut questioned whether the protest was appropri­ate right after the popn dind. 
"It's not the timn or the place," said Mary Beth Bauer. \Yho lives in Mairw and had f(Jifowt~d the abuse crisis and Law's resignation. 
But some Catholics said sening the cardinal prnsiding over such an important Mass was another sign that the Vatican did not undnrstand thn bRtrayal parish­ioners li1lt that he protnded guilty prinsL<>. 
Blaine, founder of the Survivors Network of those Abused by Priest<>, and Barbara Dorris, also a leader of the advocacy group, said the choice of Law devastated vic­tims. The Mass is one of nine daily services for the pope for the peri­od of mourning called Novemdiales. 
Law resigned as archbishop of Boston in December 2002 after unsnaled court rncords rnvealnd he had moved predatory dc~rgy among parishes for years without telling panmL'i their ehildrcm worn at risk. IIn has apologiznd filr his wrongdoing. 

More~ than 550 pnopln havn filed abuse claims in Boston in rncnnt years, and tlw archd iocnse has paid morn than $85 million in snt­tlmnenl'i. The scandal nruptt~d in Boston in January 2002 and spread nationwide, causing what American Catholic bishops have called the worst cTisis in thn U.S. church. 
After Law's resignation, thn pope appointed him archpriest of St. Mary Major Basiliea in Home, one of four basilicas under dired Vatican jurisdiction. 
Some church leaders have said the Vatican chose Law for the Mass because he leads an impor­tant church, not as a personal honor. 
Still, tho assignment gaw I .aw a position of influm1co alwad of thl.' papal elnr.tion, which is snt. to begin rwxt Monday. 
The Survivors Network, whirh daims morP than 5,h00 nwmhnrs. has spent morn than a dncac!P pressing U.S. bishops to arknowl­ndgn the sco1w of molestation in tlw church. 
Thn U.S. Confiwnnct~ of Catholic Bishops and I.aw, through an aide•, declined to comnwnt on his par­ticipation in the Mass. Thn Survivors NPtwork had m;knd till' American cardinals to intervPrw to stop Law. but Blaine said they did not respond. 
Blaine, who said a priest began molesting her when she was about 12, said thP Vatic~an, not lwr group, was responsible for mak­ing abuse an issue during the papal transition. She did not oppose Law voting in the con­dave. 


New cardinals favor Muslim outreach 
Associated Press 
VAriCAN CITY -They repre­sent John Paul If's last major stamp on his vision for the future of the church: 26 cardi­nals from six continents who wern added to the list of papal electors 18 months ago. 
These latest cardinals, who account for nearly a quarter of the Rxpp,cted 115-member con­clavp, beginning April 18, include some of the Vatican's leading voices protesting the U.S.-Ied war in Iraq and defend­ing the ehun;h's moral teach­ings. One issue that vividly stands out: the need to strength­en bonds with Muslims or risk a more polarized and dangerous world. 
Some of the most dynamic prelates in the group have been active on the front lines of Christian-Muslim conflicts in Africa or involved in interfaith outreach. Their backgrounds reinforce the perception that questions about Islam could exert a strong influence on the conclave in the way Cold War polities entered into the election of John Paul in 1978. 
"John Paul II made the Vatican into a geopolitical !'oren," said Jo Henne Formieola, a professor of religious and political studies at Seton Hall University in South Orange, N.J. "Thnre is no bigger question now in tho West than building bnttnr contaets with the Islamic world. The Vatican recognizes this." 

The late pope took historic steps to open channels betwecm Islam and the Vatican. including a 2001 trip to Syria when he became the first pontiff to enter a mosque. But tho Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and the growing strength of radical Islam have raised calls in the Vatican for more comprehensivn contacts with mainstream Islamic leaders. 
A possible papal candidatn who could bP.nelit from that new foeus is Vatican-based Cardinal Francis Arinze, 72, of Nigeria, who has been involved in inter­religious dialogue since the 1980s and whose nation is a fault line between Christianity and Islam. Also, Belgian Cardinal GodfriP.d Danneels, 71, is seen to possess diplomatie finesse for a papacy that may require extensive contacts with Islamic leaders. 
Fourteen of the new cardinals come from Europe, including six from Italy. Tho others are spread across the globe: three each from Latin America, Africa and Asia; two from North America and one from Australia. This, too, reflects the diversity of the coming condavo. Cardinals from 52 nations will decide on the new pontifT. 
Interest in advancing contaets with Islam links many of tlw new cardinals, nlevatnd during ceremonies to mark the 25th year of John Paul's papacy. 
Among them is French Cardinal .Jean-Louis Tauran, who served as a top Vatican diplomat from I990 to 200:~ and was the popn's main nnvoy for the Middle East. lie has callod interfaith relations an "enor­mous task" for tlw noxt papacy and urged Muslim nations to stand against "sneond-rlass" status for Christians. 
Fellow cardinals from Franco 
Marseillos Archbishop Bernard Panaf'ieu and Lyons Archbishop Philippe Barbarin ­have taken strong stands in sup­port of bettor eontaets with mainstream Muslims. 
For Panalieu, the issue is at his doorstep. Noarly 17 pnrct>nt of the Frnnch port is now Muslim. Panalieu has objnetod to a French law last year out­lawing Muslim head scarves and other religious symbols in public schools and has urged the gov­ernment to "ad through pnrsua­sion rather than by eompulsion" to help Muslim immigrants adjust to the West. 
Barbarin has gained a roputa­tion as a champion for immi­grant rights in a country with the largest Muslim community in WnstP-rn Europo. The rwxt pope "must be a man who knows and undnrstands today's world and its eultmo," Barbarin said last wonk. 
Spanish Cardinal Carlos Amigo Vallt~jo, tho archbishop of Scwille, was fornwrly !wad of tho archdiocnse in Tanginrs, Morocco, which has only a fnw thousand Catholics. lin has warned that "ignorance and neglect" hntwtH~n the faiths needs urgent attnntion. 
TI-lE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 
Tuesday, Aprill2, 2005 
THE OBSERVER College: A grand experiment in socialization 
I~O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR. BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(5!4) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content, 
The news is reported as accurate!y and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quatiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) Ui publishtd Monday through Friday except during enm ;md '<.tc.ation ptrio&. A subscription to The Observer is $100 for one academic ytar; $~; for one stmestcr. 
The Ob ..;crver is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Halt Send address corrections m: Notre Dame, IN 46556·0779 The Ob5erver Periodical postage pJid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additionilmailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
None Dame, IN 46556...0779 

The Oh:.crvcr i~ a memher ofthe A.o..~~eiatcd Prl'Sio. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
I ran into a horrendous case of writer's block this week trying to think up a good topic for today's column. Any of you with access to cable news or the Internet have probably heard enough about the late John Paul II and Terri Tom Schiavo to last you a Rippinger lifetime. I assure 
Confessions of
those concerned 
a Campus 
about the events that 
Conservative
I'm simply sick of media saturation of those two issues but at the same time, share concern and remorse for both. 
The thought of media saturation has also ruled out another column on Social Security reform. If you still believe the arguments of democrats after months of debate in which they have not pro­posed any reasonable alternatives to the private account plan, then there is nothing I can write in this column that can change your mind. 
Oddly enough, I've had other issues on my mind in the past few weeks. Prior to a long day trip out to Washington D.C. for a dinner via busses and a cheap flight out to Dulles, a friend of mine let me borrow Tom Wolfe's new book "I Am Charlotte Simmons" for the long day of traveling. I had heard from others that he had done an extensive c&se study of current college soeiallife in upper crest univer­sities through long periods of time he personally spent with students at pres­tigious campuses such as Duke and the University of North Carolina. 
He took the results of his real-world case study and created a fictional DuPont University to represent any prestigious medium-sized top· 20 uni­versity. Wolfe then chose to write about today's college experience from the perspective of a basketball jock, the fraternity member, a skinny dork that works for the student newspaper and of course Charlotte Simmons. 

The story is of Charlotte's culture shock with modern college life. She is the perfect SAT-scoring Valedictorian of a fictional small town in the Appalachia region of North Carolina. The book details her outsider's perspective on all of the issues that go hand-in-hand with today's modern experience in college that administrators prefer to keep away from their brochures. These are of course the classic issues of sex, drugs and alcohoL Tom Wolfe explores their socializing effects and to what extent a social hierarchy has developed in college life. Have both now become culturally accepted norms that we are socialized into in our college experi­ence? 
From the time we were young, we all grew up with a smattering of Hollywood's depictions of college life before many of us even began drinking. After that, many had their first drinks in high school shortly after the ability to drive gave them some degree of free­dom from our parents. Some remained studious until their freshmen year lib­erated them from the pressure of the college hunt and parental supervision. You could place on a graph the rise of personal freedoms in our culture along with the development of the sex drive. Interestingly enough, both lines would run in a parallel positive slope from ages 16 to 21. 
Now, throw in the variable of the col­lege experience taking that same stu­dent away from parental supervision into a social environment with two hierarchies. Of course, the academic hierarchy is the public hierarchy that parents and administrators publicly encourage. However, there is another hierarchy based on sex, athletic ability, physique, wealth and alcohol tolerance. This hierarchy reigns behind closed doors from Aug. 26 to May 5. 
How much are we socialized into the college life? For the die-hards, it is going out four nights a week (State, Heartland, Corby's, Backer), getting wasted and trying to have random hookups normal behavior? I question these things not as your parent, but as someone who has made plenty of deci­sions I regret over the past four years, many of which I would prefer to never mention publicly. Also, this is not a crit-_ icism of Notre Dame, as my visits to state schools have confirmed the moral decay is much worse there. 
What this book has done for me is given me the opportunity to place myself in the shoes of what a skeptical outsider's viewpoint may be of the unofficial norms of college life. When you consider our generation's record numbers of college students, the impli­cations of any socialization on that great a scale could have a huge impact upon the history of this country. How will our generation's experience in col­lege affect the values we pass on to our children, our marriages and our reli­gious convictions? If socialization of any new values happens in a college environment across such a scale, what will be the consequences? You may think I'm crazy, but reading this book will have you asking yourself the same questions. 
Tom Rippinger is a senior political science major. He is a member ofthe Notre Dame College Republicans. He can be contacted at trippinl@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


News Sports Kate Antonacci Kate Gales 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Meghanne Matt Lozar Downes Timothy 
~ ~b• ' , .. ,''tr ··11 /tit·' r . ~I
!

;~n •~DD ;aL@ : er1 
"Whoever kindles the flames of
Julie Bender Dougherty What do you think of 
intolerance in America is lighting a
Viewpoint Scene 
insideND? 

fire underneath his own home."
Katherine Rowley Maria Smith 
!f t··o·;·. t·b···.e,· E••·····d:···1··t·• O'.. r· ~~t, 1
Graphics Illustrator 
!I .·. ) .•. ···' .... ··.. ,:.; ·.. .····· .. ... / .. Q ..... II
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at

Desiree Zamora Katie Knorr 
Harold Stassen 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

:1 www.ndsmeobserver.com 1: 
American lawyer, politician 
f:!' 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, April 12, 2005 page 11 
Forgive me, Father, for I have sinned: Confessions of a 1 cafeteria Catholic' 

tho quostion of why I Michael didn't go to Mass. Marchand Originally, I skipped 
Guest
Mass f'or tho same rea­
Columnist
son most kids do: I con­sidornd it ridiculous that anyone would wasto a perfectly good late morning and early afternoon to dross in f'ancy elothcs, sit (and stand, and sit, and kneel. and sit, and stand, etc.) in a stuffy, dusty building and listen to some old geezer drone on for 90 min­utes. It seemed pointless. And since my Catholic mothor eventually divorced my non-Catholic father, when she avoided Mass, I got to avoid it, too. When she felt guilty about missing Mass, I lost an opportunity to sleep in. 
I think tho real turning point for me, though, came during a retreat offered by my Catholic high school. During their junior and snnior years, students were oiTnrod a two-day retrnat at a camp­ground with teachers and elergy, osten­sibly to grow in their faith. I went because I could miss two days of class to hang out with my friends. In the morn­ing, wo walked to a seduded spot in the woods and colnbrated Mass. It was there when I roaliznd why I disliked going to church: church was a place of worship for God that was created and controlled by man. Tho outdoor Mass allowed us to worship (;od in the glory of llis creation, and I felt the presence of the divine unimpl\ded by the construction and the rhetoric of man. 
I quit going to Mass after that. I didn't feel ashamed in the least. 
The ehild-molestation scandal that rocked the Church whilo I was in the midst of my years at this Catholic uni­versity only snrved to bolster the argu­ment. llere these men, allowed to per­form the duties of the apostles in the s11rvice of Christ, still could not escape thn erudo evil of their own human ten­dondes to sin. If we couldn't trust these mon with the most innocent among us, our ehildren, who could wn trust? 
But I always felt I could trust the Holy Father, John Paul II. 
By lapsing into grave sin and betrayal of their eongregations, many elergymen proved that they are no better than the worst of the sinners they are called to rneoneile to God's loving graee. But John Paul was a shining example of living faith, nven forgiving the man who tried to kill him in 1981, Mehmet Ali Agea. Furthermore, he won Agca over so much that he called John Paul his "brother" and grieved over his death. The faith and charisma demonstratod by that one act of' forgiveness alone bordArs on 
mind-boggling. 
Yet while nobody doubts John Paul's charisma, arguments have sprung up from all over about the wisdom of his so­called "closed-minded" f'aith. But John Paul's never-before-seen appeal was anchored on the eternal truths of' Church teaching. No matter: the conservatism of the Church under John Paul is being blamed for everything from the explo­sion of AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa to the departure of millions from the flock. 
Let's settle these arguments quickly. First, blaming John Paul and the Church's stand against contraception for the AIDS pandemic is an incredibly strained leap of logic. According to the theory, sexually active Africans, by fol­lowing the Church laws, are transmitting AIDS to their partners with horrifying frequency. But, if Church doctrine were truly being followed, they wouldn't bo having sex outside of marriage, so the rate of AIDS transmission would be much, much lower. 
Second, millions aren't leaving the Church in a mass exodus because it's too restrictive. Even more "open-minded" organizations are having trouble reach­ing out to materially wealthy and spiritu­ally complacent societies. People are leaving the Church because they're too lazy to follow it. 
Like ... me. 
And now that John Paul is gone, I am ashamed of myself. Ashamed because I let my pet peeves about the ugliness and sensory discomfort of the buildings, the dullness of the homilies, and the evils of some priests distract me from following his more wonderful examples and grow­ing into the fullness of a faith, which never really left. 
Please forgive me, lloly Father, for I have sinned. 
When John Paul left this earth last week, millions of people made a pilgrim­age to Home to view his body. Cardinals convened to determine who should suc­ceed him. The president ordered American flags lowered to half-staff. 
And the streets around my local church were lined with parked cars for three blocks in all directions. 
Mike Marchand graduated from Notre Dame in 2001 and is a former Viewpoint columnist. This column was originally written for his Web site. He can be con­tacted at marchandchronicles@yahoo.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Africa is neither 
helpless nor hopeless 
When we think of Africa. many of us think of horrible problems and may think that Africa is helpless and hopeless and that tho United States and other wealthy countrios would be better ofT fm~using their attontion elsewhere. For the most part, this is in fact what the wealthiest countries of the world have done. Thus, we have what amounts to a self-fullilling prophe­cy: We don't think we can make a difference, so we don't make a dif­ference. Meanwhile, eonditions on the ground in many African eoun­tries do not ehange or worsen. and, therefore, we think we are proven eorrect. At the same time, parts of Africa beeome increasingly susenp­tible to roligious extn~mism and transnational terrorist networks. 
There can bo no doubt that, in many parts of Africa. the problems are serious and have been getting wors(f It is estirlittcd that nearly 50 percent-up from 40 percent in 1980 -of the population in sub­Saharan Africa lives in extreme poverty or less than $2 per day. People in Africa continue to suffer greatly because of poor healthcaro and no access to medicines that people in much of the rest of the world take for granted. As a result, IIIV/AIDS leaves millions of orphans. People suffer from war and gonoeide. It is estimated that ;{00,000 people have died in tlw genoeide supported by tho govern­ment of Sudan, and 1.(>5 million people haV£~ beon made rnfugnes. It is dear that the gap bntwnen tlw way most Africans must livo­poor, sick, orphaned and on thn run -and tho way most poople in the world's wealthiost countries live is perhaps today's grnatnst scandal. 
Africa Week April 10-16 horn at Notre Dame is intonded to promotn tho realization that serious and getting worse prohlnms aro not insurmountable and that, with the eight kind of attnntion from tho wnalthiest countrins, Africans havn provnn and will prove tlwmsnlves to be neither lwlplnss nor hopnlnss. We have been given the time and resources to learn and to be cre­ative in developing solutions to the world's problems. We are called to rejeet easy answers like, "thorn is nothing we can do" or "thoso p1~o­ple arn hopeless." May our study be increasingly dovotod to tackling the gravest scandals of our timo, liko the gap betwoon Afriea and the rest of the world. 
Robert Dowd, C.S.C. Assiscanr Professor of l'oli!ical Scienc<· April II 

U-WIRE 
One for the little guys 
Smaller airlines may have the friendliest skies around. 
Smaller airlines, such as JetBlue and AirTran. have the top scores of the 2005 Air Quality Hating, while larger airlines, such as American Airlines and Continental. rank lower. 
It's refreshing to see smaller airlines taking hold of the industry. 
This is good for the economy, especially loeal economy. Hather than a few major airlines getting all the business, Staff more money is going toward smaller airlines. Money will Editorial go to smaller towns. such as Oxford or Tupnlo, rather 
Un~ve:si~y of

than to major cities such as New York or Chicago. 
MlSSlSSlppl

Customers have more choices to find which airline is 
Daily

right for them. 
Mississippian

Smaller airlines offer shorter waiting times with the same amount of safety and reliability. Airport security is more important than ever, and though we should appreciato the extra safety, the long lines drivo most flynrs crazy. 
Though airline safety is a must, it's nice to know thnre arn shortnr wait­ing lines at smaller airports. Small airlines are just as safe as large air­lihes 
They are also more convenient, because they are located in smaller towns. 
College students can drive a short distance to the Oxford or Tupelo air­ports, rather than driving to Jackson or Memphis. This keeps flyers safe and saves thnm money. 
Larger airlines are suffering from high tieket prices, inconvenience and ignorance of their customers. At major airlines ticket prices jump dramatically in just a few days, and they usually have very long waiting lines. 
Major airlines are so busy getting thousands of people off to their desti­nations that they usually don't take the time to eater to each customer. Granted, this is a big task to achieve. but something could be done. 
If large airlines cut prices and catered to their customers, more flyers would come back to them. Obviously, with such high ratings from the Air Quality Hating, flyers are 
taking advantage of small airlines. 
Give these smaller airlines a try. 
It's easy to always go on Delta, Northwest or American, but these othnr ones offer many advantages. 
Chances are you'll save time, worry and sometimes money. 
This editorial originally appeared on April 11 in the Daily Mississippian, the daily publication at the University ofMississippi. The views expressed in this editorial are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Tue~day, April 12, 2005 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Sahara' is almost a hit, but screenwriting sinks the ship 
By SEAN SWEENEY Scene Movie Critic 
James Bond, Indiana Jones and ... Dirk Pitt? 
The producers of the new action movie "Sahara" would have you believe that Dirk Pitt (Matthew McConaughey) is the new name in adventure. While this is perhaps too bold a claim, director Breck Eisner -son of Disney Company CEO Michael Eisner -has created a respectable and worthy movie hero. 
"Sahara," which is based on the 1992 Clive Cussler novel, follows Dirk Pitt, who is a mix of marine biologist, .treas­ure hunter, Navy SEAL and suave secret agent. Pitt and sidekick AI Giordino (Steve Zahn) work for the National Underwater Marine Agency and decide to go on a treasure hunt in Africa for a lost Confederate Civil War ironclad ship full of gold. 
Along the way, Pitt saves the life of World Health Organization scientist Eva Hojas (Penelope Cruz). He learns of Eva's quest to discover the source of a plague ravishing Africa. Eventually, they discov­er they must search the African desert together to find what they are looking for and stop the evil team of a French millionaire and African tyrant from pol­luting the world's water supply. 


If that sounds like a mouthful, it is. Along their journey, Pitt and crew engage in lights and chases in just about every mode of transportation possible, destroying each vehicle in the process. 
Directors most likely released this movie in the spring because it 
doesn't quite have Sahara tour of Dirk's life. the ingredients for 
Eisner also uses a huge summer wide shots well to blockbuster, but display the stark it's close. beauty of the McConaughey and Di.ra::tor: Breck Eisner African desert. Zahn have a great Writers: Thomas Dean Donnelly, Joshua Where this movie chemistry portray­Oppenheimer, John C. Richards and James V. really stumbles is ing lifelong friends Hart the writing. In the who work well Star:rin;r: Matthew McConaughey, Penelope opening credits, it's 
This film is Eisner's first major direct­ing effort. His directing career has pri­marily involved telfwision commercials and miniseries, but he does a respectable job with "Sahara." Most action movies use fairly simple cine­matography, but Eisner manages to present a rather artful film. The opening credits sequence features a single shot that tracks around Pitt's office, giving the audience a brief, informative 
together and pro­vide most of the humor in the movie. Cruz seems to take her role a lit­tle too seriously, and it shows in her relationships with other characters, even McConaughey. The real strength of this movie comes from the strong per­formances of the supporting cast. 
Zahn (Jack from "National Security") plays the role of sidekick with the per­fect amount of wit, cynicism and thick­headedness. William H. Macy makes an appearance as the gruff and resolute Admiral Sandecker who tries to perform his job as boss of Dirk and AI. Rainn Wilson, who is known for work in "Six Feet Under" and the U.S. version of "The Office," plays the nerdy equipment man, Rudi Gunn. These actors make the most of their screen time and carry the movie through its slower parts. 
hard not to notice 
that there are 

enough screenwrit­ers to sink a real ironclad ship in the middle of the African desert, and sink it they do. The event happens and works well in the book, but the writers some­how manage to make this seem absurd in the film. 
Similarly, the rest of the plot seems ridiculous in the movie, along with much of the dialogue. Fans of the Clive Cussler book will likely be disappointed, simply because the limits of lilm cannot capture the magic of the book. 
All in· all, however, this is a fun, smart, if slightly unrealistic, action film to get moviegoers ready for the summer sea­son. 
Contact Sean Sweeney at ssweaney@nd.edu 
DVD REVIEW 
Season Six of 'Sex and the City' may disappoint fans 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN Scene Movie Critic 
Ending a popular series is difficult, and ending it in a satisfying manner that does justice to the series itself is nearly impos­sible. 
Looking at the reception of the final episodes of massively popular shows like "Seinfeld" or "Friends" doesn't leave much hope for any other show to .com­pare. Popular series usually end with a bang (something completely unexpected that doesn't usually make sense) or with a whimper (mushy sentimentality that plays exactly to what producers think viewers want.) 
"Sex and the City" Season 6 Part 2, most notably the last episode of the series, falls into the latter of these cate­gories. While these episodes are still bet­ter than most of what is on television, they just don't seem to do justice to the series itself. 
In the last eight episodes, members of the perpetually single quartet of women -Carrie (Sarah Jessica Parker). Miranda (Cynthia Nixon), Samantha (Kim Cattrall) and Charlotte (Kristen Davis) ­are in somewhat stable relationships, meaning the action of the show must come from somewhere other than dating drama. In this case, it means a series of "bad" things befall the women -like infertility, breast cancer, moving (to Brooklyn or Paris). 
While humor does manage to peek out from these unfortunate circumstances, it's all just a little bit too dark for the nor­mally lighthearted show. Fans of the show will debate the choices made in the final episode, but all the major story lines are wrapped up, for better or for worse. 
Included in the set is commentary by writer/producer/director Michael Patrick King on the episodes entitled, "Let There Be Light," "Splat!" and "An American Girl in Paris (Parts Une & Deux,) which can be found on Discs One and Two. The other extras can be found on Disc Three and include two HBO farewell tributes 
and the USCAF writer's 


panel discussion, in which Michael Patrick King interviews Sarah Jessica Parker as well as many of the writers for the series. 
There was a great deal of speculation about how the series would end, which explains why there are three alternative series finale endings included. One of them is really just a deleted scene, so only expect two genuinely different endings. Since no commentary is provided about why cer­tain choices were made, the endings are interesting but not very informative. There are also 10 deleted scenes and promotions for each of the last episodes included in the extras. 

Some fans of "Sex and the City" will be satisfied by the series' conclusion, but most die-hard fans will have more ques­tions than answers provided by the somewhat pat solutions provided to the complicated lives of their favorite quartet of New York women. 
While the end of the series isn't awful, it just doesn't live up to the high expecta­tions that come with such a witty series, beloved by fans and critics alike. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, April 12, 2005 
page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Fever Pitch' delivers a change-up 
By JACQUELINE PIMENTEL-GANNON 
Sn·ne Movie (:ririe 
l>n~w Barrymore and Jimmy Fallon star in "l'lwnr Pitch," a screen adapta­tion of tlw sanw-nanwd book of British author Niek llornby ("About a Boy," "lligh FidPiity"l. 
Tho l.'arrnlly brothers direet this romantic conwdy, which lacks mueh of tlwir typical erudn humor that can bn found in "Tiwrn's Something About Mary" and "Dumb and Dumber." 
l.iko many sports films, "Fevor Pitch" dopicts a toam that conquers seemingly insurmountable odds to win it all, but this is not the primary focus of the movin. "Fever Pitch" tells the story of Ben (Fallon), a schoolteacher obsessed with the Boston Hed Sox, and his rela­tionship with Lindsey Meeks (Barrymore}. Ron senms liko a groat guy at lirst and Lindsey's friends won­der why tho 30-something is still single. 
The reason becomes dear when the coming of spring brings the start of the baseball season. Ben's lifelong love for the Sox stems from his childhood when he first moved to Boston and found a 


DVD REVIEW 
Intelligent humor of 'Arrested Development' is truly original 
who studies off-beat subjects like Native American dancing and cartogra­phy so he can avoid school. 
Then toss into the mix his newly imprisoned father (Jeffrey Tambor). his snobbish, manipulative mother (Jessica Walter), a nutty brother-in-law named Tobias Funke (David Cross), a clueless son George Michael (Michael Cera) and his trouble-magnet cousin Maebe (Alia Shawkat). The acting is impressive from the entire cast, but Bateman stands out as the straight man holding his crazy family together, while Cross steals every scene he appoars as the eluoless Tobias. 
Overall, the show is unique, unlike most cookio-cutter sitcoms on thn air at the momnnt. It has no laugh track. uses only a single camera and uses a narra­tor (producor Hon lloward) to further tho action of the show. 
The show also manages to use a wide range of guest stars, ineluding Liza Minnclli, llenry Winkler and Julia Louis-Dreyfus. all without the forced feeling that comos across on most sit­coms. 
Season one includes 22 
episodes plus an unairod pilot on throe discs. There are three com­mentary tracks: the extnnded pilot episode, "Beof Consomme" and "Let them Eat Cake." These tracks feature cre­ator Mitchell 1-lurtz, directors Anthony Russo and Joe Russo and a wide range of the actors on the show. 
There are also two bohind-the-sennns featurettes, a clip from tho TV Land channel's award show entitled," Tho Making of Future Classic," and anothor clip entitled " Tho Musoum of Television & Hadio: Q&A with the Cast and Creative Team of Arrested Development." In addition, there is also a jukebox on Dise Ono that featurns 28 songs from composer David Sehwartz, a sit-down interviow with Hon Howard and a commercial that aired promoting 
· Julia Louis-Droyl'us' appnaranen on the show. ";\rrostnd Dnvnlopnwnt" is onn of thn bost shows on telovision at thn monwnt. and watching all of Season One in a single sitting will make even rngular viow11rs apprnciatn thn show morn. Tlw program has a rare mix of intnlligent humor with slapsti1:k and genuine nnJO­tions creatnd by a nnar-pnrfnet cast.. It is also onn of thn fnw DVD sets without a single "skippabln" episode. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 

By MOLLY GRIFFIN 
Seem· Movie Critic 
"Arrnstnd Development" won the Emmy for Best Comedy Series last year, and the DVD set for Season One reveals that tho undnrdog series was more than justilind in its win. 

The show is possibly one of the funni­est on television at the moment, and watching Season One in its entirety, without breaks, makes it even more enjoyable and entertaining. 
The show follows the adventures of the wealthy Bluth family, whose world is thrown into chaos when their father is an:ested for insider trading. At the center of the mess is 
Michael (Jason Bateman), the only child not completely maladjusted by thn family fortune, and he must not only deal with his oIT-kilter family but must also try to koop it togothor. 
Michael's siblings inelude his sis­tor Lindsay (Portia do Rossi), a spoilod heiress who chooses obscure caus­es to support; his older brother Gob, a failed magi-. 

Photo courtesy of www.graphics.jsonline.com cian; and 
The well-tCHio Bluth clan creates headaches for Michael, the Buster, a 
only well-adjusted child In the family. mama's boy 
friond in the Sox, and it has only grown strongnr. He follows the Sox to spring training, makes sure his two season tickets near tho dugout are used at overy game, and tapes the few games he can't attend. 
Lindsey is very concentrated on her career and a possible promotion and is initially excited that Ben won't be con­stantly demanding her attention. Tho situation soon changes, however, ;\nwrica's favorite pastimn. Bnn is upfront with his passion, and it's niee to soe a eoupln working through a known issue rathnr than finding out something shocking late in tlw Iii m. 
There are not many individually memorable lines, so you cnrtainly won't walk out quoting this movie, but thel"l~ arn several seenos that had tho audi­ence laughing. Sports fans might. feel that justien has IH1en snrvnd when 
and juggling both Fever Pitch Lindsey is focusing a relationship and 
on her work on a the Sox gets laptop and takes a increasingly dil'fi­foul ball to thn cult. Ben really head during onn fools this when Di=tor: Bobby Farrelly and Peter Farrelly gamn. going to a party Writers: Nick Hornby and Lowell Ganz BoSox fans will with Lindsey St:arrin::J: Drew Barrymore, Jimmy Fallon, lovn tho chance t.o 
causes him to Jack Kehler miss an incrndible 8-run comeback game over the Yankees. Ultimately Ben fools forced to choose which ho loves more -Lindsey or the Sox. 
Lindsoy, moanwhile, has other plans and this results in an amusing chase senne, whieh actually takes place in Fenway Park. "Fever Pitch" finishns much like Boston's 2004 season -with a fairytale ending. 
The acting is good, though the leads ovorshadow most all other characters. Barrymore plays the career-drivon woman well, and Fallon is believable as a Heel Sox fanatic. Howover, considering what the pair goes through, one would expect even more lights and disagree­ments from a reallifn eouplo. 
"Fever Pitch" breaks with tradition refreshingly. The main characters are not kept apart by a normal culprit-an affair, a job, a lie or a secret -but by relive tlwir history­
making, curse­

breaking season. lntornstingly, thn script originally assumed that tho Sox would losn, so lilmmaknrs had to adjust t.lw story mid­way through. Thn baseball footagn was real, with crows SJHmding lots of tinw l"ilming at Fnnway. That also explains why Fallon and Barrymore wnro snnn on the liold in Boston aftnr thn Sox won the World Sorins. 
This is eortainly not a thought-pro­voking lilm, and thosn looking for any­thing but 101 minutes of light nntnr­tainmnnt should look nlsnwhnrn. "Fever Piteh" is a pn~dietabln, happily-evnr­after l"liek, but its promise and how it arrives at its expnetnd eonelusion arn fresh and both males and fmnalns al"l~ likely to onjoy it. 
Contact Jacqueline Pimentel-Gannon at jpimente@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSlFIEDS Tuesday, April 12, 2005 
==~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
MLB-NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Burrell continues pow«~r surge in Phils' 4-1 win 
Hampton goes 8 in Braves 11-2 win, E:urnitz's error costs Cubs against Padres 
slugger Miguel Cabrera said. bases for the Phillies, who 
Associated Press 
"It's frustrating when you score began the v1eek leading the eight runs one day, and then.... majors with 43 runs. 

MIAMI -Pat Burrell's run­You have to think about what producing hits are getting you did wrong." Atlanta 11, Washington 2 longer. Myers took the mound with a Washington or Montreal, it 
The most prolific slugger in lifetime ERA of 6.41 in nine really doesn't matter to the baseball so far this season hit a games against Florida but Atlanta Braves. two-run homer into the upper struck out eight, walked one· Mike Hampton pitched eight deck in the first inning, extend­and allowed three hits. strong innings, Hafael Furcal ing his streak of at least one RBI Carlos Delgado doubled twice and Andruw Jones hit two-run in every game, and the for the Marlins, but he flied out homers, and the Braves routed Philadelphia Phillies beat the against Rhea! Cormier with two the Washington Nationals. Florida Marlins 4-1 on Monday on in the eighth. Tim Worrell This was n1)thing new for the night. then came on to retire Mike team formedy known as the 
Burrell's fourth homer gave Lowell, and Billy Wagner Montreal Expos. Last season, him 17 RBis, most in the major pitched the ninth for the the Braves b'lat Montreal 15 of leagues and five shy of the team Phillies' first save. 19 times and they've won 10 of record for April, set by Von Florida's Luis Castillo, hitless the last 11 series between the Hayes in 1989. Burrell is batting in his past 17 at-bats, failed to teams, splitting the other . .448 with a slugging percentage hit the ball past the pitcher in "They have our number right of .966. three trips before Damion now," Washington's Jose Vidro 
"l-Ie'~ really carrying our team Easley pinch hit for him in the said. "For s )me reason their right now, and it has been eighth. pitching seems to shut us down. great," first baseman Jim "We need somebody who can I don't know if experience has a Thome said. "He's got a ton of hit the ball," manager Jack lot to do witb it. I'm pretty sure ability, and we all strive to get to McKeon said. ''lie's not hitting. they have a 'lery good scouting the point where you get locked We've got to get some offense report on us.' in like that." somewhere." Hampton 1-0) is on a roll 
Brett Myers (1-0) allowed an Castillo's average fell to .095. against everyone. He went 12-2 unearned run in 5 2/3 innings AI Leiter (0-1) needed 114 in his last 16 starts a year ago, against Florida's fitful attack. In pitches to get through five and he's allo ..ved only two runs three victories, the Marlins have innings before departing for a in 14 innings this season. outscored opponents 26-0. In pinch hitter. He allowed five "I feel pretty comfortable out four losses, they've been hits, four walks and three runs. there," Hampton said. "I feel outscored 13-6. Bobby Abreu scored twice and comfortable with my mechanics. 
"I can't explain it," Florida had two hits and three stolen I feel comfortable mentally and physically." "We've only played a couple the strike zone, out of the strike 
Atlanta is well on its way to games," he said. "I don't consid­zone, out of the strike zone. His another series victory over er this to be a team in a slump." location was terrible." Montreal-tu·ned-Washirigton, With the offense finally show­The Nationals dropped to 3-4 thanks to Hampton's effort and ing signs of life, Hampton prob­as they closed in on their first several playsrs finally having ably could have pitched his first regular-season game in breakout games at the plate. complete game since last May Washington. They'll play two 
Furcal was hitting .138 when 18, when he was the hard-luck more in Atlanta, wrapping up a he homered in the fifth after loser in Randy Johnson's perfect nine-game road trip that pre­Hampton led off with a single. game. cedes the home opener at RFK Jones was j 1st a little better, But when the Braves piled on Stadium on Thursday. batting .217 when he hit his first four more runs in the eighth, "This was not a pretty sight," homer of the season later in the Hampton's night was done. It Robinson said. inning. That gave the Braves a was a good one on the mound 7-0 lead and finished off (only seven hits allowed) and at San Diego 1, Chicago 0 Washington starter Zach Day. the plate (2-for-4 with two runs Adam Eaton outpitched Ryan 
Furcal, Jones and Adam scored). Dempster for six innings, and LaRoche all 1nished with three "I felt fine," Hampton said. the San Diego Padres took RBis. The Braves had 15 hits. "Then we had that long inning, advantage of Jeromy Burnitz's 
"The guys came out swinging and Bobby said he was going to error to beat the Chicago Cubs. the bats," H<.mpton said. "They get someone else in. I was fine Eaton (1-0) and Dempster needed a game like that.'' with that. We're here to win each allowed four hits, but the 
Day (0-1) should have known games." Padres scored an unearned run he would be in for a long night Jose Guillen ended Hampton's in the sixth when Sammy Sosa's when LaRocile, mired at .176, shutout bid with one out in the replacement in right field hit a two-run double off the cen­seventh, hitting his third homer dropped Brian Giles' low line ter-field wall in the first to get of the season. drive. Atlanta rolling. If the Braves thought they Hyan Klesko then doubled off 
Raul Mondesi, the Braves' were having trouble offensively, the right-field wall, and Giles new right fielder, was just 2-for-check out the Nationals. They scored one out later on Ramon 20 when he lined an RBI double have scored only five runs in Hernandez's groundout. down the third-base line in the their last four games, getting Eaton struck out three without fourth for a 3-0 lead. shut out twice. walking a batter, and Scott 
The Braves scored only 16 Day lasted only 4 1-3 innings, Linebrink and Akinori Otsuka runs in their first six games, hit­giving up nine hits and bumping each gave up a hit in one inning 
AP ting .216 as a team. But manag­his ERA to 9.00 in two starts. of relief before Trevor Hoffman Cubs outfielder Jeromy Burnitz tosses his batting helmet after er Bobby Cox was never con­Manager Frank Robinson finished the six hitter for his striking out Monday afternoon. cerned. summed it up bluntly: "Out of first save. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
2,4 & 5 B-Rooms,close to campus,  Nice homes close to ND.Great  4-5 bdrm,2 bath house in SB. Lots  
WANTED  FoR RENT  call 234-9923, ask for Rod.  area.AII amenities. 19237 Cleveland 6·7bdrm;202 E. Cripe 4bdrm;222  of room. Call Judy 574·298-6217.  PERSONAL  
3 bdrm house, nicely furnished. 417  E.Willow 3bdrm.2773097  
ROADTRIP! Need manual 97 VW  Clean homes close to NO. 2-8  Napoleon (off ND Ave.)2 min. from  Furnished 1·bdrm apt. Free laundry.  Welcome back Tiger Woods,  
Cabrio driven from Chicago to  bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask  ND.  STUDENT RENTALS $400 PER  No smokers, no pets. On bus route,2  
Seattle. Will pay gas & courtesy fee.  about FREE student rent program.  $1100/mo. 2 roommates/1 family.  MONTH All utilities, ADT security,  mi to ND. 350+utilities.  Project Mayhem is working  
Must arrive by May 25th. Call  Blue & Gold Homes (574)250-7653.  Call 299-9428.  phone/cable/DSL, WID, Lawn serv­ 289·9365.  
Carolyn 90 (847) 612·1710 or  ice. 2,3,4,5 bdrms. Avail.05/06. Call  Dollar Monday...come  
hoorey90@ msn.com  2·6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING  www.andersonNDrentals.com  315-3215  Extra large 3 bdrm 1st floor apt. 1 0  

Roommate to share rent for my 2bdrm apt. 570-814-2716 or email: mmu[Qh21 ~ng.!i!d!.! 
FoR SALE 
OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE. 4 rm,2 bath. For details fimbel.1 @nd.edu or 574-261-0900. 

DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 
S.B. AVE · 605 ST. PETER CALL 532·1408 MMMRENTALS.COM 
6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER MONTH + DEP. STAFF AND FAG· ULTYONLY. 
CALL BRUCE 876-3537. 
5-7 BDRMS.$195/PERSON.SUM­MER OR 05/06. WASHER/DRYER.329-0308 
Nice homes close to ND.Great area.AII amenities. 19237 Cleveland 6-7bdrm;202 E. Cripe 4bdrm;222 E. Willow 3bdrm. 2773097 2005-06 $250-300/mo. Furn.rooms. Country setting,1 0 mi to NO. Non­smokers. Private entrance,laundry,kitchenette,cable & util incl. 289-9365. 

123 N. ND Ave. 3bd,1.5 ba,off prkg.,W/0. $1300/mo. Call229­0149. 
mins. from ND. Great quiet area. 3 students @$450/mo. All utilities included. 574.707.2960 
Sub lease our house this summerl Clean, newer 5-bedroom house for rent this summer. VERY close to campus on Juniper and partially fur­nished. Contact Nell at nryan7@nd.edu. 
Cinderella story, out of nowhere, about to become Masters' champi­on ... he's got about a seven iron 
I have more balls than I did at the beginning of the year 
yay for ethnic food night 
this is her first time playing ... wow 

Tuesday, April 12, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
James leads Cavaliers' 114-106 win over Magic 
Pacers' Miller moves to 12th on league's all-time scoring list 
Associated Press 
OIU.ANI>O. Fla. -LeBron .lanws scorml :n points, Drew 
c;oodnn  had  27  and  tho  
Clcwnland  Cavali ors  heat  
Orlando.  

Holwrt Traylor added 20 points for tho Cavaliers, who had lost live of snvnn and 14 of I !J on tlw road. 
Clovnland (40-37) took a half­ganw lc~ad over idle Philadnlphia for thn snvonth sond in tho Eastern Confnrnncn playoffs, and a two-game load over ninth-plac:n New .Jnrst~y. 
Tlw Cavalinrs also stayed within two ganws of sixth-plaen Washington. Tho Wizards. who visit Clnwland on Friday, beat Milwauknn I I 'J-112. 
.Janws. playing 4X minutns for tlw third time in tho last six ganws, also had seven r«>bounds and six assists. In his last tlm~n gamos, ho has aver­agml 3h. 7 points, I 0 rebounds and 7.7 assists. 
Dwight lloward had 23 points and I0 rebounds for Orlando (35-421. losers of four straight and live of six. Tho Magie aro 4 1/2 ganws behind tho 76nrs with live games rPmaining. 
Stove )."rands also seored 23, while DeShawn Stevenson had 21. 
Janws snnrnnd to havn snaled the win early in the fourth quarter, putting Cleveland up X6-76 with a three-point play off his own miss of a 3-pointer. After a turnover, Gooden fol­lowed with a wide-open dunk. 
But aftor a timoout, Orlando's gamble of a full-eourt press paid off. Forcing turnovers on four straight possossions, tho Magie blitzed back within two points. 
James restored order by drawing a foul and sinking the freo throws for a four-point advantage. Following another Magic turnover, Jeff Mcinnis made two frne throws for a 92­X6 lead with 7:07 remaining. 
Clevoland soon re-established its 10-point margin. 
The Magic shot 55 percent hut were done in by 24 turnovers, one short of their season worst. Orlando made 11 of its first 15 shots to seize a 12-point lead. 
But Cleveland rallied behind James and Gooden, whose three-point plays on consecu­tive possossions sparked a 19-7 surge to tie tho game at 35. James had 10 points in span of 2:50. 
The Cavaliers eventually built a first-half margin of six points, settling for a 59-54 lead at the break. 
Indiana 94, Toronto 90 
Heggie Miller scored 19 points to pass Jerry West for 12th on the all-time scoring list and the Indiana Paeers beat the Toronto Haptors. 
We offer 1 0-40+ hours/week Route Delivery and Packaging Positions $6.50-$12.00+/ Hour 800-622-6566 South Bend/North Webster Great Part-Time Hours Available Work Around Your School Schedule with Morning/Afternoon and Weekend Hours Call Today!! No Experience Necessary. Train in one facility during school and work in another during summer break. We offer schedule flexibility. Start training now! 
Schedule an interview A.S.A.P. Bring a Friend. 
For locations visit our website at www. homecityice.com 
Miller has 25,201 points, nine more than the man on the NBA logo. Miller passed West with a 3-pointer 40 seconds into the second half. The 18-year veter­an is retiring at the end of the year, and players and coaches on both sides paid tribute to him before his last game at the Air Canada Centre . 
Stephen Jackson, Dale Davis, JolT Foster, Anthony Johnson, Austin Croshere and Eddie Gill each added nine points for the Pacers, who rebounded from a tough loss to the New York Knicks the night before. Indiana blew a six-point lead in the final minute despite getting :H points from Miller. 
Indiana ean dineh a playoff spot at home Wednesday against the New Jersey Nets. The Pacers are vying with Chieago for fourth place in the Eastern Conference. 
Jalen Hose had 26 points for the lottery-bound Haptors, who have lost oight of 11. 
Hose's hook shot gave Toronto a X9-77 lead with 3:31 lel't, but he turned the ball over on Toronto's next possession. 
Davis gave Indiana a 91-90 lead by making two free throws with 53 seconds left. 
After Toronto's Hafer Alston made another turnover, Indiana's James Jones made two free throws with 14.4 sec­onds left. 
Jackson made one of two with 4 seconds remaining to make it 94-90. 
The Pacers have won seven of eight despite missing leading scorer Jermaine O'Neal (shoul­der) and assists leader Jamaal Tinsley (foot). 
Charlotte 110, Atlanta 105 
The Charlotte Bobcats' expansion season has pro­gressed about as expected with ope notable exception: They aren't the worst team in the NBA. 
The Bobcats proved again they aren't even the worst team in their division. 
Keith Bogans scored 21 points to lead seven Charlotte players in double figures as the Bobcats beat the Atlanta Hawks in over­time in a matchup of Southeast Division rivals with the worst records in the league. 
The Bobcats snapped an eight-game losing streak and kept the Hawks from their first two-game winning streak of the season. 
"Our goal was to get as many wins as possible and not be the worst team in the NBA," said Brevin Knight, who had 17 
points  and  10  assists  for  
Charlotte.  
Emeka  Okafor  added  16  

points and 12 rebounds as the 


Bobcats salvaged one win in a four-game road trip. 
The Hawks used an 11-0 run to lead 74-65 with less than 5 minutes left in the third period, but the Bobcats closed the peri­od with a 10-1 surge to lead 80­79. 
Hawks coach Mike Woodson said the third-quarter run by the Bobcats "was huge." 
"We'll have to look at the films and see how we gave up the lead so quickly," Woodson said. 
Added Josh Childress, who led the Hawks with 20 points and 14 rebounds: "That's some­thing we need to learn to do, dose out quarters." 
Tyronn Lue had 18 points and 14 assists for the Hawks, while Josh Smith added 17 points and nine rebounds. 
Charlotte coach Bernie Bickerstaff said the Bobeats and Hawks are "kindred spirits." 
"When you talk about the Hawks and when you talk about us you're talking about effort," Bickerstaff said. "The worst thing we could do was not n~spect them." 
Each of the Hawks' five starters scored in double fig­ures for the first time since a loss Feb. 16 in Cleveland -a streak of 27 games. 
"When our start.c~rs came out, the momentum swung to their side," Smith said. 
Dallas 110, Memphis 89 
Josh Howard scored 23 points and Keith Van Horn added 14, leading the Dallas Mavericks to a victory over Memphis on that spoiled the Grizzlies' first chance to clinch a playoff spot. 
Memphis endured its worst loss under coach Mike Fratello and second-worst of the season; the Grizzlies lost to Minnesota by 25 on Nov. 26 when Hubie Brown was still in charge. 
Hegardless, Memphis can still get into the playoffs with its next win or a loss by tho Timbnrwolvns. Both teams play next on Wmlnesday. 
Dirk Nowitzki had 11) points and eight rebounds for thn Mavericks, who dinched the West's No. 4 send in its previous game. They won thnir snason­best eighth straight at homo and improved to 11-2 undnr coach Avery Johnson. 
The Mavs took control mid­way through tho sncond quartnr and never rnlnntnd against a tnam that had won five of its last six garnns, most by widn margins. 



OUND llHE NATION 
page 16 CoMPI LED FROM THE OBSERVER's w1 RE SERVICES Tuesday, April 12, 2005 
MLB 
AL East 

team record pen:. last 10 GB 
Toronto 4-2 .667 4-2 Ballimore 3-3 .500 3·3 1 Tampa Bay 3·3 .500 3·3 1 Boston 3-4 .429 3-4 1.5 New York 3-4 .429 3-4 1.5 
AL Central 
team record perc. last 10 GB Chicago 5·2 .714 5-2 Detroit 3·3 .500 3·3 1.5 Minnesota 3·3 .500 3·3 1.5 Cleveland 3·4 .429 3-4 2 Kansas City 3-4 .429 3-4 2 
AL West 

team record perc. last 10 GB los Angeles 4-3 •571 4·3 Oakland 3·3 .500 3·3 .5 Seattle 3·4 ..•429 3·4 1 Texas 3-4 .429 3·4 1 
NL East 

team record perc. last 10 GB 
Atlanta 5·2 .714 5-2 Philadelphia 4·3 .571 4-3 1 Florida 3·4 .429 3·4 2 Washington 3·4 .429 3·4 2 New York 2·5 .286 2-5 3 
NLCentral 
team record perc. last 10 GB Houston 4-2 .667 4-2 Milwaukee 4-2 .667 4-2 Cincinnati 3·3 .500 3·3 f·· Chicago 3·4 .429 3·4 1d'F St. louis 2·3 .4110 2·3 1;5 Pittsburgh 2·5 .286 2·5 2~5 
NL West 

team record perc. Los~geles 4-2 
4-2
············~··7 ..

SF Giants 4·2 ''''.661 4~2 San Diego 4·3 . ;571 4·3 Arizona 3·3 .500 3-3 Colorado 1-4 .200 1-4 2.5 
NCAA Lacrosse Big East Conference 


team conf. record 
Georgetown 3-0 8·2 Connecticut 3-1 8·3 Syracuse 1-1 8·2 Boston College 1·3 6-4 NOTRE DAME 1·2 3·8 Rutgers 1-3 4·7 


NCAA Baseball Big East Conference 

team conj 
StJohn's N Boston College 7-3 20·9 Rutgers 6·3 17·11 Villanova 6·4 19-8 NOTRE DAME 5·4 16·14. Connecticut 4-4 19·9 West Virginia 4·6 14-19 Pittsburgh 3·7 1548 Georgetown 3·7 17·11 Seton Hall 2·8 8·19 
around the dial 
MLB Padres at Cubs, 1:20 p.m., Comcast 
NBA Celtics at 76ers, 6 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL Battle of the Gridiron Stars, 8 p.m., ESPN 
AFL 


Associated Press 
CULVER CITY, Calif. -­When Los Angeles Avengers lineman AI Lucas didn't get up after making a tackle, teammate Greg Hopkins' first reaction was to tease the burly player everyone called "Big Luke." 
Hopkins remembered how his teammate stayed down for several minutes a week earlier after making a tackle, only to be diagnosed with an injured pinkie fir.­ger. 
But when Hopkins sa'¥ doctors remove Lucas' face mask and stabilize his neck before carrying the 6-foo ;­1, 300-pounder from the field unconscious on a stretcher, he knew this was serious. 

While the Avengers played on, the 26-year-old Lucas was pronounced dead Sunday at California Hospital Medical Center from a presumed spinal cord injury. 
Lucas' Arena Football League teammates didn't learn of his death until after their 66-35 win over the New York Dragons. 
On Monday, teammates gathered at the Avengers' practice facility in Culver City, about 14 miles west of Los Angeles, to remember Lucas and reflect on the team's future without him. 
"We kind of expected that AI was in paralysis or still unconscious and that we'd go to the hospital and pray for him there, but we never expected to hear coach [Ed Hodgkiss] say that AI was pronounced dead," Hopkins said. "It's going to be tough, there's no doubt about that." 
Quarterback John Kaleo played with Lucas two years ago on the Tampa Bay Storm when that team won the AFL champi­onship. Kaleo said Monday that Lucas cherished his championship ring and was hoping to win another with the Avengers. 
"The big fella was always easy to follow and now it's going to be easy for us to unite and try to win this whole thing for him," said Kaleo, who broke down, sobbing. "That's one thing he cherished, football-wise, is wearing that ... ring. And if we could bring home that ring, it would mean a lot right now." 
Players and team officials said Lucas was a gentle giant with a sense of humor -a huge man who had tremendous religious faith and was a leader both on and ofT the field. 
Lucas, who had a 1-year­old daughter with his wife, De'Shonda, participated in a weekly Bible study the team offered, rarely missed a practice and never missed a game, coach Ed Hodgkiss said. 
IN BRIEF MLB susp_ends Rockies OF 
for violation of dru~~ policy 
NEW YORK -Colorado Rockies outfielder Jorge Piedra was suspend­ed 10 days Monday for violating baseball's new policy on perform­ance-enhancing drugs, becoming the second player to be publicly identi­fied under the major leagues' tougher rules. 
The suspension begins with the Rockies game at Arizona on Monday night, the commissioner's :>ffice said. 
"My understanding is that he is not filing an appeal," said Gene Orza, chief operating officer of Lhe players' association. 
Piedra was recalled frcm Triple-A Colorado Springs of the Pacific Coast League on Wednesday an:l sent back down the next day. 
"It's unfortunate," said commis­sioner Bud Selig, who was in Boston for the Red Sox-Yankees game. "''m afraid this probably won't be the last one." 

Selig wouldn't say whether he believed Sanchez. 
"I want to be kind," Selig said. "He did not fight his suspension, and I'll rest my case on that." Coria, Gaudio advance on clay in Monte Carlo Masters 
MONTE CARLO, Monaco Defending champion Guillermo Coria tuned his clay-court game Monday, defeating Paul-Henri Mathieu of France 6-2, 7-5 in the first round of the Monte Carlp Masters. 
Coria served for the match at 5-4 but was broken a third time in the second set and needed four match points to finish off Mathieu. 
Coria, seeded sixth, is preparing for next month's French Open, where he was runner-up last year to Argentine countryman Gaston Gaudio. 
''I'm not playing at the same level as last year," Coria said. "But I'm on the right track and a few more wins at Monte Carlo will help me get my confidence back." 
Gaudio, seeded fourth, defeated Christophe Rochus of Belgium 7-6 (3), 6-2. Tiger's fourth jacket boosts Masters TV ratings 
AUGUSTA, Ga. -All the images paint a picture of Tiger Woods returning to the pinnacle of golf. 
A shot that ranks among the most amazing ever at Augusta National. The intense face bursting with raw emotion when the winning putt dropped on the 18th hole. Ilis fist punching the air with an uppercut, his roar drowned out by a delirious gallery. The red shirt beneath a green jacket. 
Woods won the Masters for the fourth time and returned to No. 1"in the world Monday. 
CBS Sports said the overnight tele­vision rating was 10.3, up 41 percent from last year and the highest for a final round at the Masters since Woods won in 2001 to become the first player to sweep all four majors. 
li.resday, April 12, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

MLB 
Garcia's day-game domination continues 
·White Sox righty 
allows one run in 
8 innings in 2-1 win 
As.mci;ucd Press 
CI.I·:VI·:I.i\NI> -Tlw sun was 
shining brightly, and thn wind 
was roaring din~ct.ly at honw 
plate. Not. idPal conditions. Not 
again~t Frl'ddy (;arcia. 
(;arcia, who WPnt 'J-0 in day 
ganws last sPason, dominau~d 
CIPVI~Iand l'or dght innings and 
Srotl. Podsmlnik drove in tho go­
ahnad run in thn sovonth on 
Monday to !Pad tlw Chicago 
WhitP Sox to a 2-1 victory, spoil­
ing t.lw Indians' honw opmwr at. 
.lambs FiPid. 
Carda I1-0) hnld Cl1woland to 
orw run and four hits and the 
Whitn Sox improved to 3-1 
against thn Indians this snason. 
Tlw right-handnr didn't allow a 
hit af'tPr thn third, rntiring lh of 
Llw last 17. 
"lin had evnrything working, 
including the wind blowing in," 
Whitn Sox eatchnr Chris Widger 
said. "Wp playNI to that." 
<;arria rnadP vnry few rnis­
takns, and on orw hanging 
rurwball to Travis llafrwr, the 
right-hander got an unexpneted 
assist. Hafner rippnd a shot to 
right-c1~ntnr that appnan~d des­
tirwd for thn lownr snal<i only to 
havn it flallonnd by thn wind. 
"llafrwr just hamnwrnd it and 
it fnll 25 l'nnt short," Widger 
s.aid. "Wn wnrP laughing at that 
O!Hl." 
(;arria knew lw had gotten 
away with one. "It was a lly oul, that's all," Carda said, chuckling. Last season, Garda bncarnn 
just tlw snvnnth pitcher since 1971 to go 9-0 or better in the daylight. lin was only 4-1 I in night games, but is now unbnat­nn in day games since losing on Snpt. ;{, 2003, in Baltimore. 
"I have to do my job either way." lw said. ''I've bnon unlucky at night and good in day garnns." 
With tlw Whit1~ Sox dinging to their 2-1 lead, Darnaso Marte was brought in to start the ninth instnad of Shingo Takatsu, who blnw a savn last wonk against Clnveland. Marte, though, walknd Hafner with one out before retiring Vietor Martinez. Managnr Ozzie (;uillen then went to Takatsu, who struck out Aaron Boone for his third save. 
"I can't take the ball out of the kid's hands," Guillen said. 
(;areia outdueled Kevin Millwood (0-1 ), who had a strong home debut for the Indians. Cleveland signed him to a one-year, $7 million free-agent contract this winter, and for five innings, he made a nearly per­fed first imprnssion on Indians f'ans. 
Millwood allowed just one hit in thn first fivn innings, but gave up two in the sixth and three morn in the seventh. 
"I'm not happy with today," said Millwood, who pitched six scorelnss innings in his debut last week but got a no-decision. "But I'm glad I gave us a chancn." 

TENNIS 
Henin­Hardenne pulls upset 
Associated Press 
Clli\HI.ESTON, S.C. -Fornwr Family Cirele Cup champion Just.irw llnnin-llardnnnn put hl'r Iwalth to tlw test Monday and passed when slw upsPt I Ot.h­snmled .lnlena .lankovi<:. 
Ilenin-llardPnrw is playing in just her sm~ond evnnt this sPa­son after a kruw fracturP and virus kept her on· tlw court f'or sev1~11 months. Slw beat Jankovic 5-7, h-4, h-3 in the opening round. 
Tlw problems startnd at last year's tournament, f'rom which llenin-llardnnne withdrew with­out playing a match bncausn slw had contractnd a virus similar to chicknnpox and mononudnosis. 
llenin-llardenno blow a 4-1 lead in tho first sot of' Monday's two-hour mateh, but rallind back with the sanw graenf'ul backhand volley that bnl'uddled opponents whnn she won the titlo hnrn in 200:~. 
"It's bcon a really, rnally clifli­eult experionce," Ilonin­llardonne said. "Now that I'm more healthy to play, I try to enjoy it. 
"But I need competition. I need a lot of matches. I nend to find my confidence again. Only playing and winning is going to hnlp me." 
fREE 

PANERA BAGEL DELIVERY TO CLASSES! 
MONDAYANO TUESDA~APRIL lBm AND 19m 



TEACHERS1 PLEASE SIGN UP ON WEONESOAr; APRIL 13171 FROM BAM-NOON BY CONTACTING SUB.NO.EOU WITH YOUR NAME1 CLASS SIZE1 liME OF CLASS1 AND LOCAliON. 

THOSE WHO RESPOND FIRST WIU BE SELECTED AND lHEY WILL BE NOTIFIED THAT AFTERNOON! 
Brought to you by the Student Union Board SUB.ND.EDU 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, April 12, 2005 
MLB -AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Cabrera's lOth inning hon1er beats Rangers 

Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas-The Los Angeles Angels are already spoiling things for the Texas Rangers this season. 
Orlando Cabrera hit the first pitch of the 1Oth inning for a home run, an inning after Darin Erstad's game-tying leadoff homer off Francisco Cordero, and the Angels won 7-6 Monday in the home open­er for Texas. 
"When you battle back and come back and win a game, I don't think you ever feel like you stole one," Angels manag­er Mike Sciascia said. "We came back against one of the best closers in baseball and that makes us feel good." 
The Angels came back from a 6-2 deficit against a Texas bullpen missing its top two setup men. And Cordero, who allowed just one homer in 67 appearances last season, pitched for the third straight day. 
Erstad, with just 11 homers over 753 at-bats the last two seasons, was down 0-2 after fouling a 98 mph pitch off his hands. But Cordero then hung a slider. 
"What can I say? We've got good pitchers, but we're going through a rough time," said Cordero, who has two blown saves among his four chances. 
Cordero struck out two bat­ters to get out of the ninth, but didn't return in the 1Oth because he saved the previous two games. Cabrera homered off R.A. Dickey (0-1). 
The Angels and Texas have played four of their seven games against each other. All were one-run games, Los Angeles winning two of three at home last week. 
All three Texas wins, and three of its losses, were by one run. 
"I don't look at seven game1'f as telling what we are. I feel good about this club," Rangers manager Buck Showalter said. "There are too many games. We can't let these create a mind-set. And our guys won't." 
Texas was in playoff con­tention until the 158th game last season, an 11-inning home loss that was their third straight to the Angels, who went on to win the AL West. 

But this season is just a week old. 
"We expect the West to be won at the end of September, as usual," said shortstop Michael Young, the only Ranger with hits in every game. 
After Scot Shields (2-0) allowed just one hit over two innings, including a perfect ninth against the heart of the Texas lineup, FrancisQo Rodriguez got his second save in as many chances. 
The Rangers broke out the big bats early, but only had two of their 14 hits the final 4 2-3 innings against three relievers. 
Alfonso Soriano hit a leadoff home run before Rod Barajas and Hank Blalock also had solo homers in the first five innings for a 5-2 lead. 
Barajas broke a 2-all tie when he homered with two outs in the fourth. Blalock's homer led off the fifth before Chad Allen had an RBI single and another run scored on Chris Bootcheck's wild pitch. 
All three Texas homers came off Jarrod Washburn, who gave up six runs on 12 hits with three walks over 5 1­3 innings. He threw six shutout innings against the Rangers last week. 
An out after Soriano's 23rd career leadoff homer and third homer this season, Michael Young tripled into the right field corner and Mark Teixeira singled for a 2-0 lead. 
Garret Anderson had a two­out, two-run single in the third to tie the game. The Angels didn't score again until the seventh when Steve Finley had a leadoff double and scored on Lou Merloni's sacri­fice fly, making it 6-3. 
Finley had a two-run double in the eighth, which ended with pitch-hitter Jeff Da Van on being called out at first, even though replays showed pitcher Doug Brocail didn't have his foot on the base while taking the throw from second base­man Soriano. Manager Mike Sciascia argued to no avail. 
Kenny Rogers pitched seven solid innings in his SOOth appearance (224th start) for Texas, the team for which he is in the second season of his third stint. The 40-year-old left-bander limited the Angels to three runs on eight hits. 
Mariners spoil Royals' opener 
Record Kansas City crowd wcdches Seattle cruise 8-2 
Associated Press 
KANSAS C TY, Mo. -The Kansas City Hoyals disapp~nted a lot of people 
The crowd of 41,788 was the largest ever to see a Hoyals' home opener, and the third­biggest regular-season gather­ing in Kauffman Stadium histo­ry. 
So what reward did fans reap for this rousing show of support on the heels of a 104-loss sea­son? 
The Hoyals' most lopsided loss in any home opener. 
EmergenCJ' starter Hyan Franklin took a three-hit shutout into the ninth inning, then the Seattle Mariners finally settled for a dominating 8-2 vic­tory on Monday. 
The Royals hadn't been shut out in their home opener since 1971 and had never lost their first home game by more than five runs. 
"It was [Franklin's] day," Kansas City second baseman Hoben Gotay said. "Everything was working for him." 
Thrust into the rotation by an injury that put Bobby Madritsch on the 15-d ay disabled list, Franklin (1-C) kept the Hoyals flailing for 8 2-3 innings. He retired 15 cc nsecutive batters before Gotay walked with one out in the nin1.h. 
The Marin!:rs batted around in a seven-run eighth as Ichiro Suzuki, Adrian Beltre and Miguel Olivo !:ach had two RBis. 
Hyan, a 3:~-year-old right-


bander who was 1-10 on the road last year in a 4-16 season, threw 16 straight strikes to begin the game. 
"They didn't swing at too many bad balls," said Franklin, who made no secret of his dis­appointment at being moved to the bullpen at the end of spring training. 
"I made pretty decent pitches. I didn't leave too much over the middle of the plate. It was just one of those days. A lot of those balls could have fell in. A lot of those ground balls could have found the hole. But I had luck on my side today." 
Franklin walked two and struck out one and was charged with two runs. Mike Sweeney followed Gotay's ninth-inning walk with a single, and then with two outs, Emil Brown hit an RBI single to break up the shutout and bring in J.J. Putz from the bullpen. Terrence Long singled off Putz. 
"l-Ie didn't throw any balls. Everything Was strike, strike, strike," Gotay said. 
Franklin, who threw an effi­cient 83 pitches, figures to get at least two more starts before Madritsch comes back from the DL. 

Do you d am of grilling at a2005 Football Concession Stand? Even f you don't, if your Club, Organziation, or Hall applied for a2005 Stand... Attend the S rin 2005 Concession Stand Trainin s! 


---~-----~~---~-~­
"Ii1esday, April 12, 2005 
The Observer + CLUB SPORTS page 19 
CLUB SPORTS 
Sailing team sees success in Bay Area competition 
Hyan and Elser were visited by as well as Allie Montana,
Irish finish ahead of 
a sea lion during a calm upwind llayden Piscal, Meghan Murphy,Santa Clara in San leg. Brandes and Thompson lleather LaDue and Nicole executed an excellent leeward Gonsalves.Francisco regatta mark rounding, avoiding a four boat pinwheel and picking up 3 Cycling Special to The Observer places. In preparation for the Four valiant Notre Dame rac­Women's National Qualifying ers headed to Western Miehigan 
This past wnnkend eight Irish event to be held at Notre Dame University in Kalamazoo to raee sailors lwadnd to San Francisco in two weeks, Elser and in Saturday's Hoad Race. Gooff to battle llw typical 20-25 mph Ketterhagen sailed the last A­Gisler and Matt Prygoski raced winds, one-lo-thn~e-foot seas. division set together. Despite the 30.6 mile Men's C race, and strong currents and tides the stronger afternoon winds while Mike Lavery and Dan that whip through tho bay every and higher seas, they were Arlandson raced the 51 mile day, a huge adjustment from towed baek to shore only slight­Mens B race. The race course tlwir home coursn on St. .Joe ly damper than they left. The had one long steep elimb right Lakn. l>an Hyan and Erin Elser Irish were pleased with their near the start, and then was wern the first to sail the course overall performance for the downhill most of the rest of the set directly between the Golden weekend and were thrilled to loop. (;ate Bridgn and Alcalraz, an have the opportunity to sail at The Irish didn't enjoy last absolutely stunning sight. They such an incredible location. weeknnd's success, in part due wore followed by snniors Katie UC Irvine captured lirst place to some questionable riding tac­Brandns and Katie Thompson, in the 31-school field, followed tics of a few competitors, which sailing modified windward-lee­by USC, Stanford and resulted in many crashes that wards with starboard round­Washington. The Irish were made racing much more chal­ings. edged by Washington State and lenging. All of the club's riders 
In t.hn socond set of the day, finished ahead of Santa Clara. finished in the middle of the .I. H. Garcia and K a l h r y n field. The team will travel to Jloodnchnek capsized while bat­Equestrian Miami of Ohio and Marian tling a strong bay-arna puff'. The equestrian club finished College next weekend,, deter­Tlwy discovered their center­its final prnp for next weekend's mined to improve upon its board was broknn as they Zone Championships in Hiver league standing. walelwd it fall back into the Falls, Wis. as a few dub mem­boat, but Garcia was able to bors tuned up in their speeial­Men's Rowing swim underneath the lurtled ties. As tho Zone 9, Hegion 1 The Notre Dame men's row­boat to savn the ennlerboard champion, the Irish qualified ing team enjoyed a great day of and right the boat. their entire team for the cham­raGing Saturday at the State of 
Kalin Brandes and Halph pionships. Additionally, Claire Indiana Crew Classic in Panlony had tim most promis­. Freemand finished second in Indianapolis. Teams from all ing start of the al'tornoon, open flats this weekend to qual­over the area, including rounding tho windward mark in ify for the individual competi­Northwestern, Purdue, Indiana 12th plaen, until they death­tion. Katie Baron just missed in University and Butler University rollnd into llw watnr. They per­open fences with a third plaee met for races that tested the formnd an exeellent scoop finish, while Caitlin Landuyt's mettle of the Hoosier State's rncovnry and wore able to finish bid for individuals fell short in finest crews. tlw ra(:n in 27th place. The Irish intermediate nat with a sixth lri the morning races, the ended llw day 2Hth overall. place showing, the club's third­Notre Dame novice erew faced 
Sunday began as sunny and bnstlinish of the day. competition from the tough ealrn as Saturday so tho team Team members who will com­Purdue team. They fell to the optml for shorts and T-shirts in pete this weekend include Boilermakers, crossing the lin­pllu:n of tlw standard dry suit. Fr11mnan, Baron and Landuyt, ish line with a time of 6:59, 20 
\Ulll~C~ll @Jl ~r~l~~~lrlre c~lll[t( tPJrtPJ~rnre~rJ 

Bring this ad in to 
. *Walk to Campus
rece1ve 

*Hook up with friends, just $500 off blocks from your favorite night spots 
your 1st month's rent 
*Bronze yourself at our pool

*Expires 4/30/05 Restrictions apply *Remodled Apartments *Lease with 42" plasma Toll Free included 1-866-395-4201 
~'I'

www.aimco.com 

-, #1 Hot Spot at ND

1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 
seconds behind the vietors. The 
Irish redeemed themselves in 
the afternoon by defeating 
Northwestern and Butler crews 
with a time of 7:12 to win the 
Novice Eight event. 
The Varsity squad also strug­gled against Purdue in the morriing, coming in 13 seconds behind the stronger Purdue boat, which had a time of 6:19. The aftnrnoon race was a hard­fought battle among North­western, Cincinnati and the Irish. Boats battled back and forth through the 2000-meter race course. Cindnnati was vic­torious with a final time of 6:41, followed closely by Notre Dame at 6:45 and Northwestern at 6:55. 
The Irish look forward to fac­ing these crews again in two weeks when they return to Indianapolis for the Indiana Invitation. 
Ultimate 
The University of Notre Dame Men's Ultimate Club took 4th place out of 15 teams in Champaign, Ill. this past wonk­end, in what proved to be a break-out tournament for the Irish. Seeded third in their pool of live behind number one seed Illinois and the tournament's sixth seed Whnaton, Notre Dame came out slow on Saturday and progressively improved their play throughout the day. In their first game against Western Michigan, the Irish were slow to react on defense and seemed unsure of their horizontal stack offense. But fiery leadership from cap­tain Matthew Sullivan, newly recovered from injuries, helpod the team to secure a 13-9 victo­ry. In game two against rival Wheaton the Irish went point for point against the Chicago team that had beaten them at their last two meets. Strong defensive play from Andrew "Turkish" llochstedler and con­sistent cutting from Stove Kurtz helped Notre Dame to pull away from the Thunder in the l'inal moments of the game to win 13-11. Chris O'Neill anchored the team with cunning field sense and critical height on both offensive and defonsive points. 
Hiding the wave of their sue­cess into the third game against annual Nationals eontender Ilfinois, the Irish wont neck and neck with the tournament's hosts until losing a critical downwind point in the middle of the second half. Both teams dominated offensively with vet­eran David Hoffman completing stunning full-field bucks to Andrew "Puddles" Sheehan and the team's tall man Erie Morin. 
I 

1'First Oriaina( Pizza in Town! 
Sin(~<' 19ti I 

Sp<•('ializing in Italian Entn•(•s Tues. -Thul's.: Cl:OOP~l -II :OOPi\1 Fl'i. -Sat.: Cl:OOP~I -I :00:\~1 
r---------------y-------------------~
: I}) " c c 0 s Special Hours for Graduation 
1 ~ May 15th 4pm-10pm : Heslauranl No Reservations Please 
Losing 13-10 thn Irish gave Illinois their dosest game of the tournament. The Irish moppPd up in their final game of thn day against Case Western, obliterat­ing the Ohio team, 1:~-(,, Mike Florack played a kny dnfm1sivn role in tho Irish victory by shut­ting down Case's top cutter, and handler Hiehard Bartholomew kept olTensive play flowing in the back-linld. 
The Irish came out to a strong start Sunday morning, defeat­ing University of Wiseonsin­Whitewalnr 15-6 in the prn­quartnrfinals. 
Lefty Vasili Karas continued to impress in his nnw role as a core halldler for the Irish and rookies Niek "Craig" Chambers and Tommy II an e ul ak canw into their own, shutting down their opponents with strong dnl'ensive play. Fired up by Greek and Turkish motivational speeches the Irish took tho tournament's third seed, St. Cloud State, by storm in a 15-4 quarterl'inal victory. Captain Matthew Sullivan playnd stun­ning defense that clogged St. Cloud's handler motion and forced them to make poor up­lield throws. 
Notre Damn's defining game of tho wnekend camn in the Semifinals against last ynar's Nationals participants Michigan State. Tho Irish carne out to an early lead against Burning Couch, defensively neutralizing their explosive horizontal stack oiTense and pulling hard marks on their crafty handlers. 
On offense, Irish handler Hyan Butler threaded passes through Miehigan State's brutal defense to k(~Op the disk from stagnating in the backfield Tlw Irish flustered tlwir opponents with an unexpected zone defense and tied the game at 12-12. Strong man dofonse also shut down Miehigan Slate's sig­nature Swimfan end zone· offense, but in the dying min­utes of thn game Irish fatigue and miscommunication bot­ween handlers gave Miehigan State the opportunity to win I!i­
12. l~xhaustnd from tlwir ganw against Notre Damn, Michigan Stalo wont on to got emslwd by Illinois 15-7 in tho finals. 
The Irish came away from tlw weekend oxcitod to play with a full roster at noxt weekend's seetionals tournament in Wosl Lafayette against rivals Indiana University, Purduo, University of Chieago and the University of Illinois. 
Missing from this wnok's tour­nament wore top cutters Barrs Lang (out for injuries) and Andrew Sheehan who could not attend the eritical snmil'inals against Miehigan Stale. 


Cl'O Nol'lh St. Lottis Soullt BPnd. IN CJ7lj-:tn-1.1ili1 Cut oul l his co u po11 f'o r $2.00 o ('('any pizza. Din<•-in only. Expi res 'V'{ I/200~ 
-----------------------------------~ 
r--­

page 20 The Observer •• SPORTS Tuesday, April21, 2005 
==~~~~~~~~~~~~~~====~ 
MLB 
Boston wins home opener8-1 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Bostonians who nev(~r thought they'd live to see the Hcd Sox win it all witnessed another first in the franchise's recently refurbished lore: The New York Yankees applauding as their rivals eolleeted the spoils of their World Series champi­onship. 
With gaudy rings and an emo­tional flag-raising by old-timers who never got a chance to !ly their own, the Red Sox celebrat­ed their 2004 title and turned to its defense, beating the Yankees 8-1 on Monday in the Fenway Park opener. 
"Now we can put that to bed and get on with 2005," said knuekleballer Tim Wakefield, the longest-tenured player on the team. "It was a great run last year and it was very exciting to be a part of that. I think once the game started, it's time to move on." 
Wakefield (1-0) allowed one unearned run, five hits and two walks while striking out five in seven innings. Doug Mirabelli homered, and the Yankees played compliant guests by watching and clapping during the hourlong ring ceremony and then fumbling away the game. 
Mike Mussina (0-1) allowed seven runs -four earned ­seven hits, three walks and five strikeouts in five innings. Alex Hodriguez, the focus of much Boston ire during the offseason and the fans' taunts during the game, misplayed a grounder for an error that let in three runs as the Red Sox made it 7-1 in the fifth. 
The Red Sox took a 2-0 lead 

on Mirabelli's seeond-inning 
homer and made it 4-0 on Kevin 
Millar's two"run single in the 
third. After Rodriguez singled, 
stole seeond and scored on a 
throwing error by Boston short­
stop Edgar Renteria, Rodriguez 
gave back three runs with an 
error in the bottom half. 
"It's the home opener. We're 

playing the Yankees. We've got a 
ring ceremony. All of a sudden, 
you look up and (Derek) Jeter's 
in the batter's box," said Boston 
manager Terry Francona, who 
returned after missing four 
games with a viral infection that 
was feared to be a heart prob­
lem. 
"It was going quickly. But 

Wakefield kind of took care of 
the rest of that for us. He was 
fantastic." 
Through bench-clearing brawls, home-plate collisions, bullpen crew dustups and fights among fans, the Red Sox and Yankees have developed an ani­mosity that fuels one of the most venomous -and one of the best -rivalries in all of sports. 
But it had also been laughably 

one-sided: Since the Red Sox 
sold Babe Ruth to the Yankees, 
New York had won 26 World 
Series and Boston hadn't won 
any. 
Until last year. 
"They certainly deserved 

everything they got today," 
Yankees manager Joe Torre 
said. "They won the champi­
onship last year, and even 
though you envy what's going on 
and you're a little jealous, it 
doesn't mean that you ean 
ignore it. 
Red Sox get t:heir World Series rings 


Fans get teary-eyed over first Boston title since 1918 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -For 34 minutes, the cheers rang out in Fenway Park, from the old, from the young, from the true believers who never gave up hope and, yes, from the New York Yankees, too. 
It was a day like no other in New England since 1919, a sun­splashed spectacle to celebrate 2004, the triumphant year many Boston Red Sox fans thought would never come. And it hap­pened in front of the hated Yankees, who filled the third­base dugout to watch, like a con­quered nation forced to view the rituals of their victorious tor­mentor. 
Forty-seven rings were hand­ed out Monday before Boston beat New York 8-1 in its home opener, the prize for overcoming a 3-0 deficit against the Yankees in the AL championship series and sweeping St. Louis in the World Series. And then Johnny Pesky and an assortment of all those Red Sox who fell short joined the triumphant heroes for the walk out to center field, where they hoisted a red, navy and white World Series banner up the flag pole for the first time since an era few survive to remember. 
"I almost had tears in my eyes," said the 85-year-old 
Pesky, a special assignment instructor starting his 53rd sea­son with the Hed Sox. "It was a very emotional day." 
In the roof seats above first base, the tears started flowing for some fans soon after the cer­emony began. While members of the Boston Symphony Orchestra and Boston Pc ps in white dinner jackets behind seeond base played Strauss' "Also sprach Zarathustra," a huge banner proclaiming "'vVorld Series 2004 Champions" dropped from the top of the Green Monster and covered nearb all of the 37 -foot­high wall. · 
And then m~mbers of the mili­tary, two of them missing parts of legs and ir. wheelchairs, two limping with canes, delivered the rings to a table in front of the Boston dugout, where Red Sox ownership hLnded them out to players and on-field staff. When Boston mana~:er Terry Francona walked the red carpet to get his, even the Yankees applauded. 
"After 86 years, I think they deserve to win one," New York closer Marian J Hivera said. 
Wearing sp·~cial gold-trimmed jerseys, players picked up their prizes one at a time as the score­board showed video highlights of the great comeback. On the front of each ring vras a diamond-cov­ered base ball diamond. Inscribed, akng with each per­son's name, was "Greatest Comeback in History," "8 Straight Wins" and "4-0 Sweep." There was a picture of the World Series trophy, placed inside Fenway Park. 


·Date:  April 7, 2005  
Subject:  Two New Concentrations in the Departn1ent of' Music  
Rei ease date:  Friday, April 8, 2005  
Contact:  Anne.Marie .Dav..son, Outreach Specialist, .Departtnent ot'Music  

(adawson2@nd. edu; 574-631-6528) 
The Departrnent of Mu~ic has reconfigured its undergraduate degree progratns for those declaring the tnajor in Music beginning in Fall 2005. Students will novv be able to select a 33­credit concentration in Music Flistory and Theory or a 36-credit concentration in Perfonnance. (Students declaring the major prior to 2005-2006 will be subject to the requiren'lents in effect at the time they declared.) 
~ 

For those students inten:!sted in music history and theory, the departn'lent will offer a 33­credit concentration in Music History and Theory. in which students will take classes with internationally recognized scholars. In music histoty classes, students will explore the developtnent ot'tnusical forms, styles and genres fron1. the tnedieval period through the twentieth century. In rnusic theoty courses, students will begin with the fundamentals ofmusic and progress to harmonic and fonnal analysis of' music from the Baroque period through the twentieth century. 
For those interested in developing their musical skills to a professional level, the 36­credit concentration in Perf'o1~n1.ance provides the tools to do so. Building on work in the classroom, students have the opportunity to study with acclaitned perf'orn'lers in the areas of' cello, organ, piano, violin, and voice, an1.ong others. They will also enhance their study in ped"onnance by participating in vocal and instrumental ensembles. 
A 33-credit concentration in Music and Culture is scheduled to be added in Fall 2006. Students will explore the diver:;e tnusical cultures of the world and ethnomusicology in an interdisciplinary sequence of courses. 
Students in all three concentrations will establish a solid musical foundation through a curriculutn ot· core courses in hi story and theory. 
With the pennission of the Department, advanced students who wish to pursue a tnore intensive course of study n1ay -enroll in the Honors .Progrant, in which they will cotnplete an additional six credits of'requiretnents. 
The Departtnent of' Mw;ic and the Departn1ent of' Theology co-adtninister a 15-credit ·Interdisciplinary Minor in Liturgical Music Ministry, with courses taught by faculty n'letnbers 
For more information visit the Department of Music at Crowley Hall 
Y\t'ViyY,rtd0~.£iu/::;;J:~ltJ.§i~ 
or caU (574) 631.Wt5211 

--------------------------------------------------------------------. 
Tuesday, April 12, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles off to face first-place Calvin 
By BRIAN CARDILE 
Sports Writer 
Thn Bnllns travel to Calvin Colleg1~ today to play a double­lwader against the MIAA's first placn tnam. 
Saini Mary's is looking for its first win in over a month. The Bnllns havo droppod I I games sincn !waling l·:mmanuel Collego on March I 0 during tlwir spring hrnak tournanwnt in Florida. 
At that point. the team was 5-3 and poised to make a run at rnpnating as MIAA champs. But siru~n thon the BPIIes have lost 11 ganws hy a total score of R2 to 
34. Tlwy are now 5-14 overall and 0-h in eonfnrnnce play. 
Calvin is in tho midst of a losing strnak of its own, having droppod four gamns in a row. Dnspitn tho skid. t.he Knights are 12-S ovorall ami 2-0 in thn MIAA eonlimmeo. 
Tlw Bnlles are coming ofT a w1wkmul alTair against Adrian College whore they droppnd both ganws of a doubldwader. They did show rnsolvn, however. keep­ing both games dose. The Belles 
Rowing 
continued from page 24 
Jt· is this opponnnt that the Irish fa1~n in battln to lw provnn worthy of NCAA considnration. Coach Martin Stmw of the Irish had IIlllCh rnspnet to givn to the Spartans a11d its lmavy schnduln. 
"Thny am vnry good," he said. "Wn will havn to sne how the racns go. Tlwy havn raeed a vnry tough race sdwduln this year." 
Tlw Spartans arn not the only onns with a grueling workload as of late. The Irish will have had only two days off in lwtwnnn regattas. In addition, tlw Indianapolis rngatta on Saturday eonsistml of a double workload, races in both the morning and the aftnrnooh for all the shells. 
II ownvn r, Coach St_one is nxtremely eonfident in his women. lie feels the short rest and incn~ased workload is noth­ing they cannot handle. 
"We are coming off of our hardnst training week of the 
lost 4-1 in the first game and 11­9 in the second. 
This ability to stay dose in games but not win them is ehar­aetnristie of the team. A week ago, the Belles played a double­header at horne against Albion College. The Belles fought hard in both games, but missed oppor­tunitins and inopportune errors proventnd thn team from notch­ing a win. 
The inconsisteney can in part be attributnd to the inexporience of the team. The young squad ineludes no seniors and five freshmen. With more experience, the Belles will likely become more efficient at making big plays and avoiding key errors in ordnr to stay dose and win. 
Saint Mary's will rwed to start making those big plays against Calvin College if they have any hopes of repeating as MIAA champions. If tho Belles can takn advantage of the Knight's recent poor play. they may be able to finally get a conference vietory. 
Contact Brian Cardile at bcardile@nd.edu 
year," he said. 
In preparation for Michigan State, Stone is stressing relax­ation and rejuvenation for his tnam, along with a normal prac­tice schedule. 
A win by Notre Dame's varsity eight against the Spartans would go a long way in securing tho coveted at-large berths for the NCMs. Lack of teamwork or camaraderie seems to be no problem at all for the Irish women and their coach. 
"I love our kids," Stone said. "They are doing everything we ask them to do. They have done everything we have wanted them to do workout-wise." 
This is not the lirst time these two crnws have met. The Irish met the Spartans and Tennessee Volunteers back in early March in Knoxville. Most of the regatta was canceled due to lousy weather, but several shells man­aged to race. This ineluded a elose race by thn varsity eight won barely by the Spartans that the Irish will look to avenge. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu. 
he serves as the Eagles' assistant athlctie director
Gallup 

for football operations. Gallup, Sr., however,
continued from page 24 

never pressured his son to follow his footsteps.
receiving, while scoring "lie was very open about

24 touchdowns and record­it. He told me
ing 6 inter-that he knew
ceptions. With 
that it may stirthose impres­

I just went out and 
up some ani­sive numbers 

visited for junior mosity [at BCI.
and another year of play day, and I fell in but he told me 
it was my deci­

still to go, love with [Notre 
sion," Gallup
Gallup has the 

Dame/. said. "He want­
potential to ed what wasimpaet the 
best for me."

team immedi­Barry Gallup, Jr. 
Ultimately
ately in 2006. 

Irish recruit 
however,
"I think he'll 
everyone
definitely 
involved real­show up prepared, and he's izes that Gallup has onegot the type of ability to 

more year of making playshelp right away in special that doesn't wear gold hel­teams type player, maybe mets on Saturdays.
as a returner," Frank said. 

"I want to focus on help­The commitment is also a ing my team win a champi­
big recruiting win for the onship [in my senior sea­

school because of Gallup's son]." Gallup said.

bloodlines. His father, Barry, Sr., is a Boston College graduate and for­Contact Eric Retter at mer gridiron star, and now eretter@nd.edu 
BOXING 
Iron Mike returning to the ring 
Source tells AP Tyson to fight June 11 at MCI Center 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Mike Tyson is returning to the ring. 
The former heavyweight champion will l'ight for the lirst time in nearly a year, fac­ing journeyman Kevin McBride on .Juno 11 at Washington's MCI Center, a boxing source told The Associated Press on condition 
ofanonymityMonda~ 
Tyson and promoter Marty Wynn planned to announcn the bout at a news eonfernnen Tuesday, the souree said. 
Tyson's manager, Shelly Finkel, did not immediately return a phone message left at his of'lice Monday evening. 
The 38-year-old'Tyson is 50­5 with two no eontnsts and 44 knockouts. lie lost two of his last three lights. 
In his most reennt outing, in Louisville on .July 30, lw was stoppnd in the fourth round by Danny Williams al'ter tearing eartilage in his lef't knee. 
That was Tyson's first fight in 17 months -and his first loss in a non-title out. lin's entered tho ring just once a year since 2001, earning a teehnical knockout victory over Brian Nielsen in October of that year, getting knoeked out by Lennox Lewis in .Junn 2002, and knoeking out Clifford Etienne in February 2003. 
Tyson became the youngest heavyweight champion ever when he kn()(~kcd out Trevor Berbick at the age of 20 in 1986. 
McBride, 31, defeated Kevin Montiy by technical knockout on March 18 in his last light. Born in Ireland and now based in Massachusetts, the (>­foot-6 McBride is 32-4-1 with 27 knoekouts. 


HOT GIRLS. TIGHT CLOTHES. 
Now that we have your attention ... 
Dance Company of Notre Dame presents 
''Pulse•• 
Wed., April I 3th Washington Hall 7:30 
Tix $3 General or $5 VIP seating. Available at the door or by emailing Ashley at alucches@nd.edu 
A 
major outbreak of life-threatening anthrax You may qua/fly jfyou are: wpuld not just impact how we Jive today­• 18-55years qfage, and it would change the lives or generations to come. • Current{y in good health To combat the threat of anthrax in the past, a 
Qualified participants will receive a study­vaccine has been used. 

related medical evaluation and study vaccine Now local doctors are conducting a medical at no cost. Participants will not be exposed to research study to evaluate an invc&"tigational, anthrax as part of th.is study. Reimbursement 
second-generation vaccine for for time and travel wifl be provided. t11e prevention or anthrax. 
To learn ffyou qualify to see a stuqy doctor, call tollftee: 
1-888-788-3948 
Study information by Ouintilos 
-Tuesday, April 12, 2005 

page 22 The Obserwr + SPORTS 

Baseball 
continued from page 24 
while Manship and Samardzija combined for a six-hit shut out in a 3-0 vieto­ry on Sunday. 

After starting Brett Lilley at seeond base for the first part of the season, Mainieri moved the freshman to third for the final two games of the Boston College series. Lilley respond­nd with several key defensive stops to keep the Eagles from reaching base. Mainieri said Lilley will be the every-day third baseman for the remainder of the season and a dceision on the regular see­ond baseman will be made in the next few days. 
Derik Olvey gets his third start of the season tonight, after starting the season 1-1 in nine games. The Alabama native has truck out 17, walked six and recorded an impressive 3.18 ERA in 28 1/3 innings of work. Olvey missed 4 7 games of his freshman season with elbow soreness, but has been healthy all of 2005. 
Bowling Green is eoming off a 1-0 win over Buffalo on Sunday where starting pitch­er Burke Badenhop threw a complete game shut out, striking out nine and yielding just four hits. 
After beginning the season with a loss to Murray State, the Falcons won 11 of their next 12, including an 8-3 win against Big East opponent Connecticut on March 6. But Bowling Green couldn't trans­late that momentum against 



Softball 
continued from page 24 

they are playing really good ball right now like we are," said coach Deanna Gumpf. "They have two really good pitchers that they rely on and are really hitting the ball." 
Steffany Stenglein (10-4) is slated to pitch the first game and Heather Booth (13-4) is likely to start the second game. 
Stengleim has been striking out opponents at a clip of 
10.5 strikeouts per seven-
inning game. Booth has given up only 31 runs and has a 
1.10 ERA. 
While not on the level of rivalry as archrival Michigan and DePaul, there are some Indiana bragging rights involved. 
"They always like to beat us and we would love to beat them. There is definitely some state pride at stake," said Gumpf. 
The first of the double header will begin today at 2 p.m. 
Contact Tom Barr at tbarr@nd.edu 
Ball State in a March 26 and 27 weekend series. The Falcons dropped all three games to the Cardinals. 
"Their team this year seems like they have a lot more bal­ance," Mainieri said. "They're just going to be a really solid team. I'm surn it's going to be a tough, hard-fought game, just like it always is with them." 
Contact Joe Htttler at jhettler@nd.ed'J 

otre Dame 

CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  31 Eucalyptus­ 59 Make  
1 Film mogul Louis B. (whose  loving "bears" 35 Drive-thru  unreadable, for security  
company  dispenser,  63 Island near Java  t;-;--t--t--t--+­ 
mascot was 26-Across)  maybe 36 Gazetteer  64 One feigning courage  
6 "Funny!"  statistic  66 Tied in score  
10 Hard to fluster  38 Sporty Mazda  67 "_homo"  
14 Mrs. David 0. Selznick,  39 Courage seeker in a 1939 film  68 Put ear  in one's  
daughter of 1-Across 15 Assist in wrongdoing  43 Top man in the choir? 44 _ proprietor  69 An earth sci. 70 Not fake 71 Cake sections  
16 Hodgepodge  45 SSW's opposite  
17 One lacking courage  46 Fake 48 Crowe's "A  DOWN 1 Fail to catch  
19 On the briny 20 __ Tuesday 21 Take the first step 23 Poland's Walesa 25 Tam sporter  Beautiful Mind" role 50 Suffix with chariot 51 Pack and send 53 Reply to 'That so?"  2 Keystone's place 3 Reunion number 4 Sign up 5 Superman player George 6 Barn loft  
26 Roarer in film intros  55 Deuterium and tritium, to  contents 7 Basics  28 Prophetic signs  41 Straight: Prefix  55"- to differ"  
29 Sty fare  hydrogen  a Puts on the  30 Argentina's Juan  42 Former Georgia  56 Except for  
burner ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Tear into -:-:t+t:=+:::-1 1oFormal jacket feature  32 Frankie or Cleo 33 Do penance 34 Less dotty  governor Maddox 47 Sleeping bag closer  57 Promise product 58 Shelter org. 60 Gape at  
=+,..,........,.,.  11 What's more  37 Ike's two-time  49 Suggest subtly  61 Whitetail, e.g.  
=+-:-+-:+::-to...... ~-=+:=+.=+:::+.::.fl!l!l.-!11  12 In  of  opponent  52 Treaty result  62 Notable times  
-:-+-:-:+=+-:+::::-l r7i-=i-=i-:::-l'~'!!!"  13 A d rawb ridge may span one  40 Exerting little effort  54 "Star Wars" genre  65 Slithery swimmer  
18 Render  
-:+-=+=+::+.:+.:::+:i-1 24 Round dances 



Tuesday, April 12, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
.5

0-------------..... 
ui 
LL
THE FACT THAT IT :::> 
IN CONCLUSION,
WORKED CAUSED A ~ 
THERE'S A FINE 
STEEP DECLINE IN 1ii 
LINE BETWEEN
i5
MY RESPECT FOR ";} 
MARKETING AND
THE INTELLIGENCE .5 
HATING .
OF PEOPLE. E
.. 
~ 
' !
I1.I () .. 
l~.Y7e 



~ 
~ 

PEANUTS 
HOW WILL ~OU FI~D HE~? WHERE 
WILL ~OU LOOK? OON'T ~OU THINK 
~OU S~OULO CONSIDER THIS A 
LITTLE MORE CAREFULL~ BEFORE 
~OU JU5T SORT OF TAKE OFF ? 
r 

CHARLES SCHULZ 
NO, 'lOUR MIND 15 MADE UP, 
ISN'T IT? WELL, I HATE 10 SEE ~OU 60, BUT GOOD LUCI(, OL' PAL ... I HOPE ~OU Flf.ID HER... 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

You broke the law 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
DORBO j
I I r 

RETINE WHEN THE 
IL...L...EGAL...L...Y PARKED C.AR.5 BL...OC.KED
[IJ 
TR.AFFIC., THE
www.jumble.com 

C.OP--­WELDIM 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

r x J cJ 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer: rI I I I JTHE rI I I J 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's Jumbles: GLOAT WEDGE BAUBLE EXEMPT 
Answer: The running shoe company hired the sprinter to-GETALEGUP 
harmless, For answers, call 1 -900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a perhaps, to credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 26-Across's kin Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1 -888-7 -ACROSS. 

22 Hardly cramped Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).

-=+=+-:+=+:-1 26 Starbucks order 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young __,__.__.__...J 27 Old anesthetic solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary:S Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City __________ State ________ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Meshach Taylor. 58: Louise Lasser. 
66: Joel Grey, 73; Johnny Messner, 35 
Happy Birthday: Stop putting pressure on yourself and start to do the possible. This can be a highly energetic year, but getting started will be the problem. Surround yourself with people who can support you emotionally. A change is headed your way by year-end so prepare to accept something new. Your numbers are I. 13, 22, 27, 33, 38 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get down to business early today so you have plenty of time later in the day for socializing and romance. You may have to take 
care of the needs of an older relative. Organization will be the key to fitting 
everything in. *** 

TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Digging your heels in and refusing to budge may work against you in the end. Don't oppose the very people who arc trying to do something to help you. Anger will not help you find a solution to a disagreement. 
*** 

GEMINI (May 21-.lune 20): If you find yourself a little confused about someone 
you recently met. stick to your longtime friends. Problems with authority ligures 
or while traveling can be expected. Do something to help a cause you believe in.*** CANCER (June 21-.July 22): Good times are ahead if you take part in activities 
that include a lot of people. You will make new friends or even get involved in 
a business partnership. Put a little time aside for love and romance. **"* 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may know exactly what it is you are trying to 
accomplish. Expect some opposition along the way. Take the path of least 
resistance and steer clear of people who like to play devil's advocate. ** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Hope you've planned a day trip or business trip. 
You will make the greatest gains if you arc en route both personally and 
professionally. Your mind is open to change and new ideas. ***** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't get angry about the things that aren't happening 
in your life. Do something about it and hold on to what you've got. There will 
be plenty of people trying to take your cash without your giving it away. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A new partnership will give you a positive spin 
on something you've been trying to do for some time. You can make deals and 
sign contracts. Consider starting or expanding your own business interests. *** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A stubborn colleague may put a hold on 
what you are trying to accomplish today. Prepare to deal with this person het()rC 
it's too late. Do whatever it takes to drum up the support you need. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can't win at a personal level, and chances 
are good that you will have trouble with your peers today. Book into a spa, get 
a massage. go to the hairdresser, get a consultation with a makeover expert. but 
don't just sit around trying to force people who aren't going to budge. ***** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can expect to face difficulties with someone 
regarding emotional issues you probahly don't want to deal with. You aren't likely 
to be able to talk someone into changing his or her mind, so don't bother. Prepare 
yourself for your next big adventure. ** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The more you do with friends or the more involved 
you become in your community, the more you will get in return. Consider the .. 
relationships you have with different people, and if you haven't been getting 
anything back, you may want to let go. **** 
Birthday Baby: You are quick, intelligent and you can create your own 
opportunities. You have pizzazz and discipline --a rare comhinalion. You arc 
creative, sensational and very capable of being a leader. 
Eugenia's Weh sites: astmadvice.com.for.fun. eugenia/as/. com for COI!fidelltiol consultations 
'' 

'' 
THE ()BSERVER 

PC>RTS
Tuesday, April12, 2005 
page 24 
BASEBALL 

Looking to get on a roll 

13-game homestand beings today when Bowling Green visits 
By JOE HETTLER Senior Staff Writer 
The Irish want to start rolling. 
After losing four of five games, Notre Dame bounced back with a pair of victories last weekend against confer­ence rival Boston College and improved to 5-4 in the Big East and 16-14 overall. They have a chance to make it three straight tonight, opening a 13­game home stand against Bowling Green (20-8) at Frank Eck Stadium for a 5:05 p.m. first pitch. 
"I think it's an important game for us," Irish head coach Paul Mainieri said. "Personally I think those two games fagainst Boston College) are going to be the turning point to our season, so we need to keep it going ... If we're going to turn our season in the posi­tive direction, this is the time to do. It is absolutely time for us to step it up and say we're going to make our run right now." 
Notre Dame didn't fare well against its last Mid-American conference opponent, Ball State, on April 6. John Axford had control problems, allowing five runs and five walks in just 1/3 inning of work as Ball State jumped out to 12-0 after three innings before winning 14-5. 
"We've always played tough, close games against the MAC schools in the middle of the week," Maineri said. "We're in no position to take anyone lightly." 
The Irish dropped their first game of the Boston College series, but bounced back with two straight wins thanks to strong pitching performances from Tom Thornton, Jeff Manship and Jeff Samardzija. Thornton threw a complete game in Notre Dame's 3-2 win in the second game of Saturday's doubleheader, 
see ROLL/ page 22 
fOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Gallup becotnes 2nd recruit for class of 2010 
Junior's dad is an assistant athletic director at BC 
ByERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
The date Feb. 27, 2005, may go down as one of the most memorable days in the recent history of Notre Dame athlet­ics -not because of what happened in the Irish men's basketball game but because of who was there. 
Head football coach Charlie 

.. 
Weis and over 80 of the nation's top high school junior football recruits were in attendance at the game, a 75­65 loss to UCLA. Despite the setback for the basketball program, the game started the Weis era off with a mas­sive and aggressive recruiting effort. 
On Thursday, Notre Dame received its second commit­ment from that group of prospects, as Belmont Hill (Mass.) High wide receiver Barry Gallup, Jr. joined run­ning back Munir Price in promising to play for the 
Irish. 
"I just went out and visited for junior day, and I fell in love with it [Notre Dame]," Gallup said. "I felt like it was an opportunity I couldn't miss. Because of the tradition and what I saw there, I just knew it was the place for me." 
The 5-foot-11, 175-pound Gallup is a downfield threat and is expected to continue to play that role once he begins his Notre Dame career. 
"He's got comparable speed to, I'd say a Matt Shelton type of player," IrishEyes.com's Mike Frank said. "He's also a guy who can do a lot with the ball in his hands. Notre Dame has a lot of bigger receivers, guys with good size and good hands, but they also need 
guys  who  can  stretch the  
field."  
Gallup,  who  has  been  

clocked at 4.45 in the 40-yard dash, has played much of his high school career at running back, while also working at receiver and defensive back. 
Last season, Gallup made quite an impression for his team, rushing for 1,700 yards and picking up 500 more 
see GALLUP/page 21 

BETH WtoHNET/The Observer Irish infielder Matt Edwards follows through on his three­run home run against Toledo April 5. 
ROWING 
Irish travel to No.8 Spartans 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
The Irish look to capitalize on a 

dominant victory from last week­
end and carry it into today's race 
against the No. 8 Michigan State 
Spartans. The Irish women must 
venture into Spartan territory for 
the regatta on short rest between 
competitions. 
Last Saturday the women obliter­

ated a field of very competitive 
schools, but none had the pedigree 
or the results that Michigan State 
presents for the Irish. 
The Spartans have faced off 

against the top two schools in the 
nation, Princeton and Brown, and 
fought a close race before fmishing 
third. The MSU women then went 
on to defeat No. 6-ranked Virginia, 
and proved a tough challenge for 
No. 7 -ranked Ohio State. 
see ROWING/page 21 
ND SOFTBALL 

Bratgging rights on the line 
Notre L>ame takes 13-game win streak to West Lafayette 
ByTOMBARR Sports Writer 

The Irish (24-8) are head­
ing to West Lafayette to take 
on the Purdue Boilermakers 
(24-13) in 1 doubleheader. 

The team has extended 
their win streak to 13 games. 
During thi; streak they have 
outscored their opponents 
70-10. 

Just over a month ago, the 
team was just under .500 
with 6-7 record and hitting 
an unimp ·essive .232. The 
turnaround has been impres­
sive, howe·1er. Since March 7, 

the team has won 18 ofits 19 
last games and raised its win 
percentag€ to .750. 

The Irh h pitchers have 
also pitch Bd very well over 
the streak. They have yielded 
a minimal 0.40 ERA in 87 
innings and have kept oppo­
nents hitting a .114 batting 
average. 

This wil be the 17th and 
18th meetings between the 
two schools in softball. Notre 

Dame leads the series 9-7 
but lost 1he last meeting 
against Purdue 4-3 in a dou-


bleheader last spring. second half of a double head­
Purdue comes into the er against the University of game with a three-game win­Illinois in Champaign. ning streak. The Boiler-mak­"They are good team and ers won their last game in extra innings in 8-7 in the see RIVALS/page 22 

SPORT 
MU~ 
CUJB SPORTS 

MlB 
MU3 
~BA
LLI 

Co) Saint Mary's at Red Sox 8, Angels 7, White Sox 2, Cavaliers 114,
Eight members of the 
z Calvin Yankees 1 Rangers 6 Indians 1 Magic 106 

Irish sailing te;; m trav-The Belles try to snap 
::5 Today, 3 p.m. 
eled to San Francisco to
After receiving their 

Orlando Cabrera's Freddy Garcia all-
LeBron James scores their 11-game losing 
~ 
compete in a regatta. 
2004 World Series cham­game-winning home run ows one run in eight 33 points in leading the 

c:c 
pionship rings, the Red 

streak at the MIAA 
wins it for the Angels. 
innings to ruin the 
Cavaliers' push to the leaders. 
Sox beat their archrivals. 

Indians' home opener. 
playoffs.
!:i 

page 21 page 20 
pCl1ge 19 
page 18 page 18 page 15 

I I I 
'j. ..
.. ' . . 



