
4\~V·'tThe Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's
y 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE 125 MONDAY, APRIL 18,2005 NDSMCOBSERYER.COM 
Students, professors examine death penalty 
Washington, D.C. program 
ND law school instructors look provides face-to-face interaction at issues raised in Lovitt trial 
By MADDIE HANNA By MADDIE HANNA 
Associate News Ediwr A'sodatc News Editor 
While Hobin Lovitt's death sentencn from 
Hobin Lovitt snnms likn your stnrnotypieal "nice the U.S. Court of' Appeals for the 4th Circuit guy." Optimistic, friendly, intnllignnt, soil-spoken, 
raises some controversial issues, many Notre 
talkalivn-Lhosn who havn rnnt him usually refer to 
Dame law professors say the broadnr topie of' 
him IL'i liknabln. noting how quickly he put<; pnopln 
the death penalty is morn complex than pno­
at OIL'i11. 

ple often assume. 
So at nasn that the Notrn Dame studnnts who Aspects of this case involving DNA evidnnee, mnt and spokn with him at Virginia's Sussnx State the possibility of' innocent prisoners on death Prison almost forgot he wa'i on dnath row. 
row and arguments against the death penalty
"Wn wnre all rnally struck -lw's such a nice all need to be addressnd in such cases, said guy," senior Shann Lowenberg said. "If we hadn't 
law school professor Hichard Garnett. 
known his situation, we would have never guessed 
"We shouldn't think that because now we 
lw WIL'i a convieted murderer." 

ean do DNA testing that in every ease tlwn~ 's 
Notre Dame students In Washington, D.C. have been working on the see LOVITT/page 3 death row case of, Robin Lovitt, left, pictured above with his nieces. see LAW/page 6 • 
Thousands attend fare-well mass for Malloy 

By EILEEN DUFFY Assistant News Editor 
Screaming litns wnre traded li1r hushed worshippers, and thn bright lights of the Joyce Center were dimmnd as over 3,000 pno­ple gathered for University Prcsidnnt Fathnr Edward Malloy's farewnll ma'is Sunday at 9 p.m. 
"It means a lot to mn to son you all horn," Malloy said aflor mak­ing the sign of the cross and wnl­coming tho community. Then, he humbly shifted the focus away from himself, asking worshippnrs to romombor tho conclave of car­dinals in Homo in their prayers. 
Whnn he took tho podium to givn his homily, Malloy n~eog­nized the historie relevance of this presidential transition, which, he pointed out, has only happened twie1~ in the last 53 years. 
lie then comparnd tho evening's cnlobration to tho mass on South Quad following tho nvenL'i of Sept. 11. 
"Af'tnr [the events ofSept. 111. it b1~eame dear that [tho University! 
see MASS/page 4 

Volunteers abound in home restoration project 
1\y LISA SCHULTZ News Writer 

As part of an April tradition, members of tho Notr-e Dame community joined forcos with South Bond rnsidents to help prns1~rvn low-inconw housing areas for thn national project called Hobuilding TogPLhnr. 
"I holiovo ofToring SOO able bodied and wnll intnnlionod students, faculty and staff' makns a vnry eloar staternnnt that thn Univnrsity community is very interested in making a positive contribution to the 
South Bend community," said Darrell Paulsen, assistant diroetor of Campus Ministry who is the volunteer coordi­nator for the Hnbuilding Together SLIH1ring Committee. 
Hebuilding Together, which used to bn known as 'Christmas in April,' changed its name in 2000 dun to expanding its efforts to aid low-income homeowners year round with housing rehabili­tation and revitalization remaining tho focus. 
In ono day, which began at 
see PROJECT/page 4 


NevvND 111ascot selected 
By PETER LEAHY News Writt•r 
Dillon junior Kyle Cham­borlin was announl'NI Saturday as the rww <;old squad Lnprnehaun mascot. Chambnrlin will porfill'ln at tlw football and nwn's baskntball gamns, among other 1wents. Tho rnsult'i of tho tryout<; worn postnd at II a.m. outsidn of Gato 3 at tho .Joyen Contor. 
Dillon sophomorn Knvin Braun will sorvo as t.hn Bltw squad Loprnehaun at socn•r. vollnyball and womt\n's baskPt­ball gamns and var·ious com­munity IWI'nt'i. 
Approximatnly I00 studnnt'i gatlwrnd Friday t.o support thP romaining six eandidatns for the final tryouts, which took plaeo in thn ur1111wground ).,')'Ill, Thn Pit, in tlw .loyen CPntPr. Supportnrs lwld signs, won• T­shirt'i and yellml raueously fi1r thnir f'avoritn candidatns <L'i tlw gruding tryout<; took placn. 
Many studnnts l'nlt it was important to show support at sw:h an nwnt, <L'i thn nHL'iCOt is an important part of' Notrn I>arnn tradition. 
"It's onn of' thn biggnst honors a studnnt can havn," sopho­mom Snb<L'itian Lara said. 
Ovnr tim span of'!)() minut1~s. six nwn with aspirations of bnwming publie symbols or Notrn Damn wnrn du1.llnngnd to a varinty of tasks. Braun. Chambnrlin, .John Corknr, I•:ddie Lnrum, .Jn'Hell Hognrs and Eric Wallac1~ nntnrnd tlw procnndings with high hopns. 
Tho parwl of" judgns was composnd or nwmbers from Studnnt Aetivitil~s. Acadnmic Serviens, the Alumni Oflkn.' thn 
see MASCOT/page 4 

--------~----~­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Squirrel haikus 
After suffering a long, cold winter, spring has finally made its way to South Bend. What this means is we only have three weeks left to celebrate the return of the sun before having to 
return home.  
Some people have already chosen to  Dan Tapetillo  
spend their time hanging out with  Sports Writer  
friends on the quad,  

while others have decided to go to the Stepan fields and play volleyball and soccer. One suggestion I have to com­memorate this special occasion is something that I also find to be highly cathartic -writing haikus. 
But don't just write your typical three lined, 5-7-5 syllable, nature themed haikus that we all learned about in the fifth grade. They must all be centered on one of the most fasci­nating creatures the Notre Dame wildlife has to offer-squirrels. 
In this column, I have taken it upon myself to share 10 of my own squirrel haikus (and one last one from a friend) to show the endless possibili­ties a three-lined poem can have. 
But before reading them, there is one thing I must clarify. I use the word 'squirrel' in several of these haikus, and it is not one, but two syllables according to Webster.com. 
So if you are one of those individuals who firmly believes it is only one, all I ask is for you to look beyond this small dilemma and appreciate the beauty of the haiku. 
Oh squirrel, you rock 
To Jove you is so, so sweet 
Don't eat trash squirrels 
Squirrel, you're so fat 
You fall from branches a lot 
Don't die squirrel, don't! 
Scruffy, your fur's gone 
A huge spot out of your butt 
Don't be Self-conscious 
Winter stopped mating 
But now you chase everything 
Spring is in full swing 
You bit my hand, why? 
Friend, what did I do to you? 
You should be locked up 
A hawk attacked you 
You couldn't stop the pecking 
Sguirrel, he ate you 
You jumped on my back 
After smelling chips in my bag 
I screamed like a girl 
You move so slowly 
Don't become road kill, squirrel 
Life is too precious 
Jackie Chan style 
Two squirrels fought for ice cream 
Squirrels -learn to love! 
Domesticated 
You eat food out of my palm 
You love me, don't you? 
Squirrels and students 
Man and animal are friends 
We should live in peace 
-LP 
I hope my haikus have inspired you to go out and create your own master­pieces. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo writes this at jtapetil@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please romact us at 631-4541 so we can rorrect our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, April 18, 2005 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT TYPE OF COMMUNITY SERVICE DO YOU DO? 





Michael French 
sophomore Knott 

"Whatever Res "/ volunteer at "/ donate dining "/ dance for the "One time I left Life tells me to the Catholic hall food to the people." my clothes in 
,

d0. Worker House." squirrels in the winter." 
Kasparov hit over head with chessboard by young man 
MOSCOW Garry Kasparov, the world's for­mer No. 1 chess player who quit the professional game last month to focus on poli­tics, said he had been hit over the head with a chess­board in a politically moti­vated attack. 
Kasparov, an outspoken critic of President Vladimir Putin, was not injured Friday when he was hit with the chessboard after signing it for a young man at an event in Moscow. 
A spokeswoman for Kasparov, Marina Lit vi­novich, said the assailant 
TODAY 
0:: 


Monday. 
The 15-year-old picked up several passengers after stealing the vehicle Sunday night and driving across the city's tracks, according to news reports. 
Trams are popular among tourists and commuters alike in Australia's second most populous city. 
Police finally stopped the tram after it traveled about 19 miles by cutting electrici­ty to the overhead wires that power it. The tram was undamaged and none of the passengers were injured. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
told the chess champion: "I admired you as a chess play­er, but you gave that up for politics." 
She said the unidentified attacker -who did not reveal his political allegiance -tried to hit Kasparov again but was hauled away by security guards. 
Aussie teen takes public tram for joy ride 
MELBOURNE, Australia -A teenager who was obsessed with trams took unwitting passengers on a joy ride through Melbourne after stealing one of the Australian city's public transport icons, police said 
LIJ
::c 
~ 
3: LIJ ..... 
~ 
4( 
(.) 


0

.... HIGH 78 HIGH 56 HIGH 76 HIGH 71 LOW 70 LOW 50 LOW 55 LOW 43 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 


the laundry room and they were almost donated to the homeless., 

IN BRIEF 
David Carrasco, Rudenstine professor of the study of Latin American history at Harvard University, will present the lec­ture "Aztlan Recalled to Life: Chicanos and Aztecs in Art and Resistance" Monday at 4 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The event is co­sponsored by the Working Group on the Americas and 
the  Institute  for  Latino  
Studies.  
The  conference  "The  

Exorbitant: Emmanuel Levinas between Jews and Christians" will take place from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday in McKenna Hall. The event is sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters' Program for Religion and Literature. 
NO Percussion Ensemble will give a free concert Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
The women's softball team will play a doubleheader Thursday against Akron at Ivy Field beginning at 3 p.m. 
The men's baseball team will face Valparaiso at Eck Stadium at 6:05 p.m. Thursday. 
Farley Hall Players will pres­ent "You're a Good Man Charlie Brown" Thursday to Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets may be purchased at the LaFortune box office or at the door. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 61 HIGH 59 LOW 37 LOW 39 
Atlanta 78 I 56 Boston 63 I 44 Chicago 80 I 58 Denver 74 I 47 Houston 77 I 63 Los Angeles 70 I 53 Minneapolis 78 I 61 New York 721 50 Philadelphia 76 I 51 Phoenix 88 I 64 Seattle 56 I 40 St. Louis 80 I 56 Tampa 80 I 59 Washington 77 I 55 
Monday, April 18, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
the surface of Lovitt's history and names lor a background check a "You would have thought boing receiving top-notch legal assis­ended up hurting his ease, Starr month Harlier. on death row would have messed tance through multi-appeals

Lovitt 
continued from page 1 
In spring 2004, Lownnbnrg met 
with Lovitt through Prolilssor Tom 
Knllenberg's Capital Punishm@t 
I .itigation eoursn in Notre Dame's 
Washington Program. Five years 
ago, Knllnnbnrg brought thn ease 
to Kirkland & lmis, a D.C. law firm 
lwaded by dou bin Domer Tom 
Yannueei. 
l.ovitt's ew.;e hiL<; sinen become a 
pro bono projnet costing morn 
than $2 million and involving 
morn than a doznn lawynrs, 
induding public luminary Kenneth 
Starr. liunous ((,r his work during 
Uw Clinton-Lewinsky scandal and 
c~urrnnt dean of the law school at 
Pnpperdine University. 
During Lovitt's last round of 
appeals, tho U.S. Court of t\ppnals 
((,.. the 4th Circ~uit uphold his sen­
tence on death row. The story, 
though, startnd over six years ago 
in Arlington, Virginia. 
The story 
Tlw night of Nov. 18, 1998, 
Lovitt, then 35, wnnt into 
<:tuunpion Billiards Sports Cam on 
Shirlington Hd. in t\rlington, 
according to a March 14 
WIL-;hingt.on Post artidn. t\ day out 
of a detoxilieation program, the 
Post said, longtime drug addict 
l.ovitt bought and smoked crack 
lwfore entering tho pool hall 
sonwtirnn allnr :~a.m. 
Lovitt said hn told night manag­
er Clayton Dicks hn was hungry, 
according to a police statement 
obtained by the WIL-;hin~-,rt.on Post. 
After Lovitt atn and went to the 
bathroom, hn eamn out and saw 
another man in a light with Dicks. 
lie went back into the bathroom, 
attempting to avoid thn scene. 
Lovitt's statclment to police said 
that wh1m he rnnmnrged from the 
bathroom, the man had left and 
I>irks was dead. liP grabbed $200 
from thn ea-;h register and fled. 
"With a track rneord like mine, 
would you mil lbr help'? The first 
thing I thought WIL<; I hotter get the 
lexplotivel out of hem ... The stu­
pidest thing I eould have done was 

grab the ca-;h rngister, 'cause if I 
hadn't, I wouldn't be here now," 
Lovitt said in the polim statement. 

t\t Lovitt's 1999 trial, prosecu­tors said Lovitt enternd the pool hall to steal money but was con­frontnd by Dicks who them stabbed l.ovitt with a pair of scissors six times, the Post artide said. One of the two custonwrs who came in and eallnd 1) I I tnstilind of being XO pnrennt sun1 Lovitt was the lL<;sailant at his original trial. 
Onn of Lovitt's cellmatns tnstilied to Lovitt's eonli1ssion -although lawynrs at Kirkland and Ellis say Lovitt has always maintained his innoennee. 
l.ovitt mwnr took tho stand, but one of his sisters did testily, Starr said. llownver, her toslimony proved damaging to Lovitt ­something Starr believes could have been avoided. 
Questions 
"t\t his original trial in Arlington Cireuit Court. it is undisputed that his two defense lawyers didn't investigatn his family back­ground," Starr said. "The Suprnme Court says you must do that, unlnss thnrn's a powerful argumnnt not to." 
Tlw U.S. Court of t\ppnals for tim 4th Circ~uit said Lovitt's origi­nal lawynrs -who wnro eourt­appointml -might have intml­tionally avoidnd thorough rc1snarrh into thnir dinnt's back­ground, afraid of uncovering potontially dntrimnntal informa­tion. 
Starr said al'tnr tho guilt phasn of the original trial, the defense lawynrs talknd to one of Lovitt's sisters lilr live minutes during the jury's.deliberation -an inade­quate mea-;urn that only scratched said. 
llowever, Lovitt's defense team considered anoth~r aspect of the ease to be a greatnr travesty ­the destruction of the scissors by a eourt derk in May 2001. 
"A li:Lir trial is guaranteed by the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment," Starr said. "The idea of due process is fundamental fairness. To fail to turn over evidence that could be favorable to the defnndant is a Brady violation." 
This type of violation, estab­lished in the 1963 Brady v. Maryland Supreme Court case, occurs when thn government fails to disclose material exculpatory evidence. 
The sdssors were originally test­ed. DNt\ from the victim was found, but test.<; wore ineondusive regarding the perpetrator's DNA Lovitt's lawyers say further testing could have been done on the scis­sors that may have supported their client's plea of innocence. 
But thn U.S Court of t\pp()als for the 4th Circuit said the clerk's <Instruction of the evidence was not in "bad faith," as cited in an t\pril 7 Wa'lhinbrt.on Post article. 
"The court is not justifying the destruction of evidence, but emphasizing that the prosecution didn't do it," Starr said. 
Bridgot O'Connor, Notre Dame class of 2000 and a lawyer at Kirkland and Ellis, said the evi­dence dostruction in Lovitt's case WlL<; "unprecedented" and violated both Virginia laws and clerk office policies. • 
"In fact, two deputy clerks begged the senior clork not to destroy the evidence because it was from a capital ease, contained DNt\ and because the defendant had not been executed," O'Connor said. "There ha<; never been any rmL-;onable explanation why these laws and policies were ignored, or why the derk refused to listen to the pleas of his fellow clerks." 
While O'Connor acknowledged the Court did not defend the evi­dence destruction, the action greatly impacted Lovitt's case. 
"Destroying the evidence has manifestly deprived Mr. Lovitt of any meaningful opportunity to test his conviction on habeas," she said. 
Kellenberg said in a just system, the evidence destruction should be a eonvindng factor in removing Lovitt from death row. 
"Given the fact that the Commonwealth of Virginia· has destroyed all the evidence in his ease available to exonerate him, inducting valuable DNA evidence, in violation of the state's own laws and rn!,rulations, it would be a ter­rible injustice to put this man to dnath," Kellenberg said. 
Student experiences 
Notre Dame students in the Wa-;hington Program helped with research for Lovitt's ease, studying his eourt proceedings and contact­ing family members to get infor­nuttion about his background. 
But students focused on the experience of visiting Lovitt in prison, something they all say they will never ((,rget. 
During these past five years, dose to 40 Notre Dame student.<; have visited I.ovi tt, said Kellenbnrg, who nstimates he has visited Lovitt approximately 20 timns. Each semestHr, four stu­doni.-; spHnd two hours with Lovitt discussing mueh more than the case. 
"The pinnade of the experience was mneting with Hobin," senior I.uda Hajec said. 
Lownnberg described his group's arrival at Sussex State Prison, a "huge faeility in the mid­din of nowhere" where the group went through an extensive securi­ty check of metal detectors and pat-downs, having submitted 
After going through "a series of what snemed like 10 to 12 doors." each door dosing before the next one opened, Lowenberg entered the general public's recreation area. lie recalls inmates on the other sides of the fences yelling the entire time, making nspecially obscene comments to girls. 
l.owenberg's apprehension grew upon entering the meeting room -a converted eel! mueh dill'erent from the room that he had expect­ed with a glass separation and a telephone. 
"The bruard announced that D.C. psycho killer John Allen Mohammad was Gust caught andl in tl1e eell next to us," Lowenberg said. "That was weird." 
Lovitt entered the room wearing foot shackles and handcuffs, the handcuffs being removed per Kellen berg's request. 
"We just started talking, intro­duced ourselves," Lowenberg said. "He ba<;ically said nothing's off the table, ask whatever. That was pretty cool." 
Lowenberg said Lovitt, a big Notre Dame football fan, greatly enjoyed the company and liked to hear news !rom the out.<;ide world. 
"lie, first of all, is amazing," jun­ior Christin O'Brien said. "He's so interested in what you're doing." 
O'Brien, who met Lovitt during fall 2004, said the two hours "flew by." She remembers being am­azed at Lovitt's optimism, how he talked about moving south and getting a dog onee he got out. 
Junior Hyan Finlen, who was witl1 O'Brien during fall 2004, said for Lovitt "it was not 'if' but 'when.'" 
Lowenberg agreed, commenting on Lovitt's faith in the system. 
"lie won't believe they would execute somebody who's inno­cent," he said. 
Students took special notice of Lovitt's lucidity, noting how he read all his court proceedings, made cards for visitors and fellow inmates and served as the unoffi­cial death row barber. 
with his head," Lowenborg said. 
"But he said, There are a lot of 
crazy guys here."' 
"It was really hard when we 

walked out seeing them handeuiT . him again, knowing where he wa<; going, to a jail awaiting death," 
Lowenberg said. 
Reaction to the decision 
"I was disappointed, but I was 

not shocked in light of the ques­
tioning at oral argument," Starr 
said. "I was obviously hopoful tho 
eourt would be concerned by one 
or more of the argumenl<;." 
Starr said the decision to uphold 

Lovitt's death sentence represent­
ed inherent problems in the U.S. 
justice system. 
"This is a very grim rnminder of 

the frailties of our system and the 
need to be vigilant that the doath 
penalty system operatos with pro­
found fairness," he said. 
Vannucci echoed Starr's deter­

mination. 
"We're prepared to exhaust 

every avenue we can," he said. 
"We feel very bad for the victim in 
this ease but we're committed as 
lawyers to make sure Hobin Lovitt 
gets the best arid most ell'ective 
legal defense he can against the 
death penalty." 
After hearing of the Court's deci­

sion, students were disillusioned. 
"This final decision in Hobin's 

long journey of legal proceedings 
highlights the deep flaws in our 
justice system," Hajec said. "When 
the courts are willing to uphold, 
over and over again, a decision to 
put someone to death in light of 
evidence that calls into question 
the absolute certainty of his ~-,ruilt, 
you have to wonder how it is pos­
sible that the death penalty -the 
ultimate, irreversible punishment 
-continues to be an accepted 
feature of justice in our nation." 
While Finlen acknowledged one 

positive side of Lovitt's case, he 
al<;o saw flaws. 
"On one hand, I suppose the fact 

that a poor, 41-year-old, t\friean 
American man on death row is speaks very highly of our system's commitment to equal protndion under thn law," he said. "However, I don't see mud1 virtw• in putting Hobin to dnath with only a weak caso buill on eircumstanco as justilimlion." 
What comes next 
"Wo are filing a petition for rehearing in the Fourth Circuit Court," Starr said. "This is another step in the process, and wo'ro marching on." 
While Starr would not commont on clmmmcy, Kirkland and Ellis said thny worn preparing to sub­mit potjtions to (iovernor Mark Warner. 
"Kirkland and Ellis will eonlinun to pursue all available ehannnls for relief," O'Connor said. "In a death ponalty case, this would typ­ically indudn a petition for rohoar­ing and for rehearing en bane before tho Fourth Circuit Court of t\ppnals, a potition for certiorari before the United States Suprmne Court, and a potition for clemency before the Governor of Virginia." 
Both Yannueci and Knllenberg said they wore gratoful liJr !otters to Governor Warner writton by University President Father Edward Malloy and presidont emeritus Father llesburgh. 
Hegarding the degree to which prominent members of the Notrn Dame community could inlluence the ea<;e, Yannued said he thought letters from Malloy and llosburgh could help tho demfmey potition. 
"They're widely respoctnd national ligures," Vannucci said, "We don't want to presume what Governor Warner's going to do, ~ut we think ,this is a strong ease for clemency. 
Students said both Malloy and llesburgh senmod very willing to help in whatnvnr way possibln and agreed to writn letters to (iovnrnor Warner. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal @nd.edu 
Tabe your success to the next level 
You've worked hard to succeed in college, and you .expect more success as you take the next step-your bachelor's degree. 
Saint Marys understands the unique needs of transfer smdents. We're offering a program especially for students considering the next step in their college education-an event designed and hosted by students and alumnae who transferred to Saint Marys. 
join us on Tuesday, Aprill9 for an evening featuring 
•
Campus tours 


•Dinner 
in the new Student Center 

•
A personal welcome from President Carol Ann Mooney 

•Answers 
from: -Students and alumnae who transferred to Saint Mary's -Admission counselors -Academic advisors -Financial aid counselors 


-tit­

SAINT 

MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
www.sai.ntmary;.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 18, 2005 



Project 
continued from page 1 
?. a.m. and finished around 3 p.m., volunteers completed projects like replacing ceiling panels, painting inside and out­side of homes and plant­ing flowers. The work done depended on the needs of each home and the requests of the own­ers. 
Paulsen sites the one­day commitment as a draw for such great involvement. 
"Sometimes we are not able volunteer as we would like, due to school work and other commitments, to make a much greater time com­mitment to a service proj­ect," Paulsen said. "And this one day event allows for many more to be able to step up to the plate. People like the opportuni­ty to be able to participate in an event that has such clear goals and rewards." 
Volunteers were able to see the rewards of their labor making an impact in the Miami Village neigh­borhood, this year's target area for St. Joseph County. 
"What appealed to me was the idea of helping others," volunteer fresh­man Meaghan Mooney said. "especially with things around the home that they otherwise would not be able to do." 
Other than volunteers, the University supplied all of the food. ND Transportation offers two vans and drivers for the day as well. 
Contact Lisa Schultz at lschultz@nd.edu 

Mascot 
continued from page 1 
Athletic Department Compliance Department, the President's Office, the Men's Basketball Office and Student Development, a super-fan from campus, a past leprechaun and the cheerlead­ing coaching staff. 
The candidates' first test was to open a pep rally. From the start, each candidate demon­strated his individual style. Wallace ran back and forth near the audience, emphatically pumping his fists to entice the crowd. Corker also emphasized crowd involvement, breakdanc­ing with members of the audi­ence. 
Braun was more reserved, relying on his ideas· more than his emotion. He said he wanted to bring back a tradition from Notre Dame football head coach Charlie Weis' era as a student at basketball games -students begin chanting "Here come the Irish" 10 minutes before tip off and continue until game time. 
When Hogers came out, sup­porters raised a "We love Je'rell" sign. He used a chanting method to go back and forth in cheer with the audience, alter­nating a command and a response from the audience. 
Chamberlin performed next and gave his rendition of a 25­second summary of the moments leading up to a Notre Dame football game, which was well-received and comical to spectators. 
Chants of, "We love Eddie" could be heard when current varsity leprechaun Eddie LerUDl entered the arena. He gave a typical approach to the rally, demeaning our opponents. 
"Oh yeah, we spanked them," he said in reference to the out-. come of the football team's run­in with the Michigan Wolverines footballteamlastyear. 
Each candidate was then 
given two scenarios by a media-· tor and asked how he would respond. After each question, the candidates had 30 seconds to formulate their answer and reply to the audience. 
The candidates then had a push-ups contest and performed the Irish jig. Rogers took the title in the pushups contest, doubling the pace of all the other candi­dates and winning the race to fifty. 
Candidates next introduced themselves and took questions specific to the upcoming football season. Among the subjects of inquiry was the 1812 overture played before entering the fourth quarter of home football games. 
Candidates were also asked how they would salute Weis. Most responded that they would continue making the 'W' with their fingers, although some proposed a 'C.' Current lep­rechaun Eddie Lerum went as far as to suggest that students make a 'C' on one hand and a 'W' on the other. 
Other questions included how the candidates would pump up the crowd before games with tough opponents like USC. 
After watching the tryouts, many members of the audience had chosen their favorite prospective leprechaun. 
"I would pick Kevin Braw1 and Kyle [Chamberlin]," sophomore Thomas McCall said. "Kevin Braun had the most spirit." 
O'Neil freshman Kevin Mushell felt the energy exhibited by the candidates was most important. 
"Je'Rell [Rogers] and Kyle [Chamberlin]." Mushell said. "[Hogers] brings a lot more energy." 
In the end, this energy was not enough to land Je'Hell one of the two exclusive leprechaun posi­tions, though he did earn a spot as an alternative cheerleader. 
Contact Peter Leahy at pleahy@nd.edu 

Why spend the winter months in South Bend when you could be studying in... 
Athens 

Berlin  Pueblo  
Brazil  Santiago  
Cairo  Shanghai  
Monterrey  Moscow  Tokyo Beijing  


Application deadline for Spring '06 is May 1, 2005 
No foreign language requirements for Athens, Cairo or Tokyo 
Visit International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 


Mass 
continued from page 1 
would have some sort of large­scale prayer, because that's what we do when we're at our best," · he said. "Just like tonight, there were thousands of people. We invited people from the town, and many came. Students from the Muslim Student Association and students of other religious her­itages were there. 
"But I don't remember just one -I remember all the times when as priest-president I was able to lead the community in prayer," he said. 
Later in the homily, Malloy dis­cussed the seven sacraments and the impact a community of faith can have on the celebrants. Malloy said a couple getting mar­ried "draws upon the support of family and friends" when each says his or her vows. He then noted the strength this communi­ty of believers could provide dur­ing the time of presidential transi­tion. · 
In closing, Malloy asked stu­dents to "make manifest the soli­darity" of the community in the Eucharist. 
After conimunion, student body president Dave Baron came for­ward to pay a tribute to Malloy on behalf of the students. In honor­ing Malloy, Baron drew upon three images of the outgoing president. 
First, he depicted Malloy as a gatekeeper, an image also pre­sented in the mass's gospel. From the mass at freshman orientation to each year's opening mass in August to welcoming parents at Junior Parents Weekend, Baron said, Malloy provided a "welcom­ing environment for everybody." 
Malloy also made Notre Dame a more inclusive place during his tenure. Baron said, pointing to the increased diversity of the stu­dent body. 
"[Malloy] honored the Catholic duty to embrace and recognize difference," Baron said. 
The next image was more con­crete: senior class president Darrell Scott carried a life-size cutout of a young Malloy dribbling a basketball, wearing his Notre Dame jersey, onto the altar. This image, Baron said, connects "young Eddie" with the current students. Baron also noted Malloy's continuing relationship with the students, living among the men of Sorin Hall and teach­ing a freshman seminar every year. 
Baron's third and final image was Malloy's nickname, "Monk," which, Baron said, indicates a person rooted in spirituality. Baron recognized Malloy's impact on the world, the nation, the local community and on Notre Dame itself. He emphasized Malloy's wish for Notre Dame to be a place where "there be no strangers." 
"We, the Notre Dame student body, would like to extend our heartfelt thanks to you," Baron said as the thousands of worship­pers jumped to their feet and erupted into applause. 
Malloy stood calmly in the cen­ter of the altar, a look of peace on his face. 
Four gifts were then presented to Malloy: a resolution passed by Student Senate detailing his greatest accomplishments. the cutout of the young Malloy, a quilt with a square from each dorm and a chalice. 
To close the mass, Malloy thanked his "family" from the congregation of the Holy Cross, Father Peter Hocca and the stan· from the Basilica, Steve Warner and the gospel folk choir and all of those in attendance for coming. 
"This has been a blessed occa­sion," he said, "one that I will cherish forever." 
Heflecting on the mass, senior Emily Pernotto said the mutual deference struck her. 
"Not only is Malloy interested in doing this for the students," she said, "but the students respect him enough to come." 
A reception was held in the Joyce Center Monogram Room following the mass. Chicago cover band "Maggie Speaks" -one of the "top cover bands in Chicago," said Jimmy Flaherty, member of the Student Committee for Presidential Transition, which organized the event -performed as students enjoyed refreshments and lined up to greet Malloy him­self. 
"The party afterwards came a<> a surprise," freshman Oscar Garcia said. "The band wa<> good though, and the food was, too." 
In between greeting and being photographed with students, Malloy offered some quick thoughts on the mass, noting the good turnout, the beautiful music and the "unexpected, but very appreciated prizes." 
"I loved it," Malloy said as he turned to embrace another stu­dent. 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 




ND awarded with full accreditation 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has received a full, 10-year accreditation from the Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Schools and Colleges. The final evaluation report portrays the University as both well managed and on track with its mission. 
"If any institution can take ownership of the dynamic rela­tionship between 'great univer­sity' and 'Catholic university,' it is Notre Dame: The University's history and proven strengths give it that authority,'' states the report, which compiled the find­ings of a 15-member team of peers from institutions such as Duke, Vanderbilt, Northwestern, Stanford and Brown universities and the Catholic institutions DePaul and St. Louis universi­ties. 
The evaluation process is being called "very positive" by the internal team that shepherd­ed tile process and that included University President-elect Father John Jenkins. 
"We not only can build a great Catholic university, we will," Jenkins said. "Our Catholic mis­sion combined with a commit­mimt to excellence makes us one of the most interesting universi­ties in this country, and we must be resolute in pursing this goal." 
Somewhat like a physician's "clean bill of health," a full NCA accreditation means that no intermittent checkups are required over the next 10 years. In contrast, since the 1994 eval­uation, the University has had to return to the commission three times to report on its student assessment practices. 
-




ORLD & NATION 
Monday, April 18, 2005 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Kidnap reports may be exaggerated 
Nt•:AH MADAIN. Iraq -Iraqi security forces hacked by u.s. troops had the town or Madain surroundnd Sunday after reports of Sunni militant kidnappings of as many as I00 Shiites residents. but there were grow­ing indications thn ineidont had bonn grossly exaggeratml, pnrhaps an outgrowth of a trib­al dispute or political maneuvering. 
The town of about 1,000 families. evnnly divid«HI between Shiitns and Sunnis, sits about IS miles south of tho capital in what the U.S. military has callnd thn "Triangle of' D«~ath" lweause it has becomn a roiling stronghold of thn militant insurgency. 
An AI' photographer and television cam­eraman who were in or nnar the town Sunday said largn numbers of Iraqi f'orens had sealed it oiT. supported by U.S. forces fartlwr away on tlw edge of Madain. 
Bus plunges into Alpine ravine 
OHSII.:BI~S. Switzerland -A Swiss tourist bus plunged into an Alpine ravinn on Sunday, killing 12 pPople and injuring IS, poliee said. 
J."ourt«wn of tlw st.rrvivors worn thrown from the bus when it went out of control. polir.«~ said. HeseuMs descended by rope into tlw ravine and saved a 1Sth p«~rson from thn wmrkage, hut tlw n~st of the bus oeeupants WPrP kiiiPd. 
The hus shtmmPd through a safety barrier and rolled snvnral l.inws down a stoop slope IH'fon~ dropping into the ravirw and eoming to rest in a stream. La Dranee d't•:ntrmnont, SOO fppt hPiow tlw road. said a police spokesman, Hnnato Kalbermatten. It was liiH'I«~ar why tlw bus went out of control. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Sex offender charged with death 
HUSKIN. Fla. -A n~gistnred sex offendPr eonf'essnd to killing a 13-ynar-old girl who disappeared a wPek ago. saying he got into an argunwnt with lwr and lw choked her to death in hM home. tlw sheriff said Sunday. 
David Onstott. :~6. was charged with lirst­dPgn~e murdnr Sunday, a day aftnr investiga­tors found Sarah Lunde's partially elothnd hody in an abandoned fish pond, llillsborough County Sheriff David Gee said. 
Santlr was last sn«m April 1), shortly al'tnr r«'turning honw from a church trip. Early the rwxt morning, Onstott paid an unexpected visit to the family's homn to look for Sarah's mother, Knlly May Lunde, whom he onee dated, c;nn said. 
Af'tPr Sarah lnt Onstott into the house, they got into an argunwnt and Onstott put hnr in a rhoke hold and kiiiPd lwr, Gnn said. 
Detective killed by own gun 
I'IWVIIli~NCI~. ILl. -A policn dntect.ive was kill«>d with his own gun at dnpartnwnt hPadquartprs by a susp«~ct who was not handruiTPd and nwnagnd to get hold of the W«>apon, tlw polire rhinf said. 
Tlw killing ol' .lanws Allnn, a 27-year voter­an. «'alll«' on tlw luwls of a string of incidents that raisPd ronrPrns about s«~<·.urity of pnopln in t.lw r.riminaljustke systPrn. 
Allm1. SO. was shot in tlw dotodivn eonfor­nrH·n room whiiP qunstioning l•:stnnban Carpio about tlw slabbing ol' an S4-ynar-old woman who surviwd tlw attack, Chin!' Dean l·:ssnrmarr said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Powell takes out pace car 
Calling tlw Indianapolis SOO "as American as appln pin," (;en. Colin Powell was all smilns Saturday as lw raend around tho track in preparation for being the pace ear driwr for thn May 29 race. 
"This is groat." lw said. 

Powell was lnarning the pace ear driver ropns from a pro: former Indy 500 eharnp Johnny Huthnrford. The formnr drivnr has prnpan~d many enlnhrity paen ear drivers for thnir four laps in the sun. 
CoMPILED FROM TI-··IE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
ITALY 

Cardinals check into hyper-secure hotel 
Church leaders settle into Vatican hotel rooms for secret conclave to name new pope 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY  
Bringing their suitcases  
and pnrsonal views on the  
future of the church, the  
cardinals who will select  
the next pope settifld in  
their rooms Sunday in the  
Vatican hotel that will be  
their home until the  
world's 1.1 billion Homan  
Catholics have a new  
leader.  
The conclave starts  
Monday after tho 115 red­ 
robed cardinals join a for­ 
mal procession into the  
Sistine Chapel, where  
efforts to maintain the  
secrncy of' delihnrations  
have included installing  
jamming doviens to foil  
sophistieatnd eavesdrop­ 
ping nquipmnnt.  
But tho cardinals' arrival  
at the $20 million Domus  
Sanetae Marthae took  
thorn into the imposed iso­ 
lation of the papal election  
which has not lasted  
longer than live days in the  
past century but rnmains  
an open-ended process.  
The last condavo in 197X  
took eight ballots 'over  
throe days to choose Pope  
John Paul II.  
"The new popn has  
already been chosnn by tho  
United States Cardinal Roger Michael Mahony, right, hands over his robe to hisLord. We just have to pray  
to understand who he is," driver as he leaves the North American College In Rome on his way to the Vatican.  
Floronen Cardinal Ennio  
Antonelli told the congre­ ish in an image-driven age.  The rules of the eondave  the II U.S. cardinals join­ 
gation at St. Andrea delle  For the first time, credi­ are strict: no phones, tele­ ing thn eondave posed for  
Fratte, his titular church a  ble papal contenders eomn  vision, publications or out­ a group photograph hnf'orn  
short stroll from Home's  from at least three distinct  side contact. All staff'­ making the f'ivn-minutn  
famous Spanish Stops.  regions: Europe, Africa  including cooks, maids,  trip to tlw Vati«:an.  
Tho cardinals have much  and Latin America.  elevator operators and  Cardinal Hoger Mahony of  
to ponder following the  One by one, in ears driv­ drivers who will shuttln  Los Angelos carri«~d a snt  
third-longest papacy in  en by aides through a  them the few hundred  of' n~d robes in a dear gar­ 
history.  steady rain, the cardinals  yards !'rom the hot.nl to thn  mont bag and a small  
This conclave feels the  arrived at. tho ga\es of'  Sistinn Chapnl -have  overnight hag hung l'r·om  
full wnight of tho church's  Vatican City. They were  taken vows of silenen.  ono shouldor. They made  
modern challongos, includ­ saluted by a single Swiss  For the l'irst limn ever,  no comnwnts to reporters.  
ing tho influence of Islam,  Guard, wearing a dark  cardinals will bn allowed  Tlw Turin daily newspa­ 
competition from ovangeli­ foul-weather cloak over his  to move about Vatican City  per I.a Stam pa repor·ted  
cal Christians, tho fallout  traditional purple-gold­ frtHlly· onee the voting  that. many rardinals.  
from prinst sox scandals,  and-red uniform. Tho ears  starts, though they are for­ pn~paring for a stressful  
thn rolns of women and the  passed ovnr tho gray eob­ bidden to talk to anyone  stretr.h ahead. had packed  
nnPd to reeoneiln Vatican  bi«1Stones to the hotel - who hasn't benn sworn to  com pact. disc play«H'S and  
teachings that ban condom  which John Paul ordnrnd  seeroey. The pnnalty is  IH~ad phones along with  
usn with worrios about  built to end the spartan  severn-excommunica­ prayor books and t.lwir rod  
AII>S. They also must snflk  and maknshil't quarters  tion.  hats. <Hiwr prelates, it  
a global pastor with  ·arranged for past con­ At tlw North Anwrican  n~port«~d. brought along  
enough charisma to flour- daw~s.  Collegn seminary, sonw of  favorit«~ snacks.  

===================-====================.:...=....:.:.:=================---:---·-------.-· --·-­
Republicans m_ake headway in rule change 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON Majority Hnpublicans are chipping away at Senate Democrats' ability to dnf«~at a chango in intnrnal ruins involving lil­ibustnrs -the Democrats' most potent weapon to block GOP legisla­tion and judieial appointees they oppose. 
One Hepubliean who has b«~en undneided on thn rule change, Sen. Hiehard Lugar of Indiana, said Sunday he is leaning toward sup­porting changes in filibuster rules "when push comes to shove." 
"I would not take a stand against 
my party's vinw that we should havn up-or-down votes on judgns and that this is a part of the filibuster thing that rnally nends to bn settled and set asidn," Lugar told "Fox News Sunday." 
Lugar said he hopes dilTnnmens can bn settlnd "through negotiation." 
A second Hepubliean who has bonn on the fem~e. Sen. Chuck llagnl of Nebraska, said, "I've said to both sides, don't include me in your count right now." 
Snnate Majority Leader Bill Frist, H-Tenn., is under pressure to force a Senate showdown before Congress breaks on May 27 for its Memorial Day recess. 
It now takes hO votns to shut down a lilibuster in the Snnale, which has S5 Hnpuhl icarrs, 44 Democrats and onn independent. That nwans 41 s«mators can stall a nominnn. 
Frist is considering a change whnn~by a simple majority in tlw I00-mmnbnr ·s«~natn can «~nd a 111i­bustnr. Hepuhlicans can gnt that by mustering SO COP votes and bringing in Vien President Dick Chmwy as t.hn tiebreaker. 
About a hall'-doznn COP senators either have said tlwy oppose or have refused to support changing the rules. 
Monday, Aprill8, 2005

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 


Clinton stresses 2006, politicians look ahead 
Friends, foes anticipate possible election bid 
Associated Press 
ALBANY, N.Y.-She is lead­ing in the polls for her party's White House nod in 2008. Republican Newt Gingrich ranks her as a formidable presidential candidate. Longtime critics are amassing money and manpower to derail her political career. 
And all Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton wants to talk about is her re-election bid next year. 
"'06, '06, '06," the New York Democrat chuckled when asked recently about her pres­idential ambitions. 
The former first lady and her top aides steadfastly maintain that her focus is on winning a second Senate term. In fact, they have stopped talking pub­licly about the White House and 2008. 
But Hepublicans say her sights clearly are on the presi­dency and they are deter­mined to make sure she never gets anywhere near an Iowa nominating caucus. 
New York's Republican chairman, Stephen Minarik, has begun a "Stop Hillary Now!" fund-raising effort, with longtime GOP operative Arthur Finkelstein lining up donors to help raise $10 million. 
Minarik is imploring the GOP to defeat Clinton in 2006 and dash her presidential hopes. "This is not merely a race for New York," he wrote. "It's a race for America." 
Cash and enthusiasm may not prove sufficient, however. 
Republicans lack a big-name challenger to take on Clinton next year. Rudolph Giuliani's top political adviser said the former New York City mayor, widely seen as a presidential contender, is too busy with business interests to run for the Senate. GOP Gov. George Pataki has said he has no plans to run. 
Others mentioned include Manhattan lawyer Edward Cox, a son-in-law of the late President Nixon. Clinton led Cox by a 66-26 percent margin in a recent statewide poll from the Marist College Institute for Public Opinion. 
Any challenger would need to start raising money quickly in a state where Senate races are among the costliest in the country. 
In 2000, Clinton and Republican Rick Lazio set a record for a Senate race in New York, spending a com­bined $68.6 million. Lazio spent $39.6 million and Clinton about $29 million. 
At the end of last year, Clinton had $5.55 million on hand for her 2006 bid. 
The high-profile political life of this Democrat often vilified by the right and worshipped by the left took an odd turn last week when her husband came to her defense. 
Asked about Finkelstein's "Stop Her Now!" effort, former President Clinton called it "sad." He alluded to a report that the Republican· operative had recently married his long­time male partner, a develop­ment that contrasts with the GOP's tough stance against same-sex marriage. 
The former president sug­gested Finkelstein might be experiencing "some sort of 
self-loathing." 
While the comments were perceived as an attempt to hurt Finkelstein's fund raising with conservatives opposed to gay marriage, at least one consultant said the strategy could backfire. 
"You can't make this stuff up," said Republican strategist Nelson Warfield. "You've got an adulterous former presi­dent bashing a monogamous gay marriage of a Republican consultant. It is just embar­rassing his own wife." 
"Ever since Monica [Lewinsky] dropped by the Oval Office, any lecture from Bill Clinton about sexuality in politics hurts Hillary," said Warfield, a top aide in Bob Dole's unsuccessful 1996 pres­idential campaign. 
Earlier this year, Hillary Clinton said all sides on the abortion issue should work together to reduce the number of abortions. In the process, she appeared to adopt a strat­egy espoused by some Democrats that candidates must take a less-confronta­tional approach when dealing with abortion and other "moral" issues. 
While praising the former president as "one of the best political people in the world today," Judith Hope, the for­mer New York Democratic chairwoman, said he is "still a husband and very protective and proud of her and no doubt that probably complicates matters from time to time." 
One politician mentioned as a possible GOP candidate for the White House in 2008 is Gingrich, the former House speaker. He told the American Society of Newspaper Editors last week that he expects Clinton to win re-election in 2006, capture her party's nomination in 2008 and have a good shot at the White House. 
"Any Republican who thinks she will be easy to beat has total amnesia about the Clintons," Gingrich said, adding that she has in her husband "the smartest American politician as her adviser." 
A recent poll showed that 43 percent of people surveyed perceive Sen. Clinton as liber­al, compared with 51 percent at the end of January, accord­ing to the Rasmussen Reports, a public opinion research firm that focuses on consumer con­fidence and elections. 
Also, 62 percent of voters nationwide said they think the country is ready for a woman to become president in 2008, according to a February poll by Siena College near Albany. Clinton was favored by 53 per­cent. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice had the sup­port of 42 percent of respon­dents. 
The path has potential obstacles for Clinton. 
The finance director for her 2000 Senate campaign faces a May 3 trial in Los Angeles for allegedly filing false campaign reports for a celebrity-studded Hollywood fund-raising gala. David Rosen could face up to 15 years in prison if convicted. Clinton has not been accused of doing anything illegal, but the trial could provide ammu­nition to Republicans. 

Law 
continued from page 1 
going to be DNA evidence that exonerates the defendant," Garnett said. 
Garnett cited two potential problems for people who think DNA evidence will help exonerate those on death row -.a lack of available DNA evi­dence and the fact that "in most cases, DNA evidence will determine guilt." 
"People have to be careful about thinking all these guys are innocent," Garnett said. "They're not." 
Law school professor Jay Tidmarsh agreed with Garnett about the guilt-determining factor of DNA evidence. 
"DNA evidence is as useful to obtain convictions as to not," Tidmarsh said. "It cer­tainly is a great tool in cases with physical evidence we know was left by people." 
Both Garnett and Tidmarsh said conclusive DNA evidence can make it more acceptable to sentence a prisoner to death, meaning those who oppose the death penalty should be cautious about using the innocence argument to back their opinion. 
"lf DNA evidence becomes more and more common, it could put to rest some people on the death penalty," Garnett said. 
Tidmarsh also said the inno­cence argument doesn't nec­essarily hold weight in the 
U.S. judicial system, even with conclusive DNA evidence proving the innocence. 
"One of the most bizarre things in our system is that you don't have the right to be let out of jail just because you're innocent," Tidmarsh said. "As long as it was fair, it doesn't really matter if it was erroneous." 
The most striking example of this occurred in the 1993 case, Herrera v. Collins, where Leone! Torres Herrera was convicted of the murder of a policn officer based on two eyewitness identifications, numerous pieces of circum­stantial evidence and the veri­fication of I-Ierrara's hand­writing on a letter. He was sentenced to death in January 1982. Even though Herrera's brother confessed to the crime after the trial, the Supreme Court upheld the original death sentence, according to the Death Penalty Information Center (DPIC) Web site. 
"The Court held that, in the absence of other constitution­al violations, new evidence of innocence is no reason for federal courts to order a new trial," the Web site said. "The Court also held that an inno­cent inmate could seek to pre­vent his execution through the clemency process, which, his­torically, has been the 'fail safe' in our justice system." 
Although Herrera sought clemency, it was not granted. He was executed later that year. 
However, in recent years, the number of those sen­tenced to death row that have received clemency has grown. 
States officials have granted clemency to 228 death row inmates since 1976, inducting six from Lovitt's home state of Virginia. 
Illinois Governor George Hyan was responsible for the bulk of the clemency grants, commuting the death sen­tences of 167 inmates on the state's death row. Hyan's rea­soning was flaws in the sys­tem that lnd to the inmates' convictions. 
In addition to those who have received clemency, over 115 people have been released from death row after being found innocent since 1973, the DPIC Web site said. 
Regarding the issue of the destruction of evidence, such as what occurred in Lovitt's case, Tidmarsh said that is a different issue. 
"The destruction of evidence creates other problems because it eliminates the pos­sibility of more sophisticated DNA evidence in the future," he said. 
I Iowever, he made the point that the state isn't expected to keep the evidence forever. 
"At some point in virtually every ease, they throw out the evidence," Tidmarsh said. "But you would hope in a case like this they would keep the evidence until after the execu­tion." 
Neither Garnett nor Tidmarsh thought the U.S. death penalty system or pub­lic opinion would change drastically in the near future. 
"In the short term, I think very little will change," Tidmarsh said. 
Tidmarsh believes the Supreme Court has shown signs of changing opinion regarding capital punishment, however, by being more active, listening to interna­tional opinion and tackling the issue of the death penalty for juveniles or those with mental retardation. 
"Over the long term, I don't think DNA evidence is going to move public opinion to an extent where !the death penalty I is abolished," Garnett said. 
He also acknowledged the possibility for error in the U.S. judieial system. 
"The decision about who gets. the death penalty -we give that to juries," Garnett said, "If we're going to do that, we have to accept the fact that they're normal peo­ple, using their moral judg­ment." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 


Expanded May Term/Summer 2005 
DATES: May 16-June 3, 2005 
TUITION: $332 per credit hour (Ex: $996 for a 3 hour course). Adeposit of 1.t2 total tuition is due by April29. Financial aid is not available for May Term. 
HOUSING: On-campus housing will be available to students attending SMC May Term classes. Housing applications are available in the Education Department, the Office of the Registrar and the Office of Special Events in the lobby of Olaughlin Auditorium. There is no board plan avail­able; students must dine off campus or use the kitchen facilities in the residence hall. No linens will be provided. 
Double room rate, 3weeks: $398 Additional week: $133 
~ue to housing limit.ations, single rooms may or may not be available. Completed Housing applica­tions must be submitted to the office of Special Events by April 15, 2005. Ahousing contract will be completed at this time. 
SCHEDULE OF CLASSES is available via PRISM. Select "Class Schedule;' then "Summer 2005." Click on "Summer" to view all courses offered or use the PRISM search feature. 
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS IN EDUCATION must complete the summer application form and be advised in the Department of Education, 321 Madeleva. The SMC/ND Co-Exchange Program is not in effect during the summer. Transcripts must be requested for grades to be for­warded to Notre Dame. 
QUEStiONS? 

Contact the Office of the Registrar, 161 Le Mans Hall, 574-284-4560, or email registrar@saintmarys.edu. 
Monday, April 18, 2005 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

jones  __ _  10,0 87.51 -191.24  
Up: 768  Same: 142  Down: Composite Volume: • 2,719,579,260  
AMEX  1.425.3X  -19.12  
NASDAQ  I ,90X.I5  -3X.56  
NYSE  6,95R.35  -105.39  
S&P 500  I, 142.62  -19.43  

NIKK£l(Tokyo) II .370.69 -0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,R91.60 -53.RO 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) -2.28 -0.81 34.74 APPLE COMPUTER (AAPL) -5.13 -I.91 35.35 INTEL CP (INTC) -1.65 -0.37 22.12 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.53 -0.38 24.46 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -3.43 -0.61 17.20 
li'easurles 

30-YEAR BOND -1.89 -0.89 46.27 I0-YEAR NOTE -2.00 -0.87 42.71 5-YEAR NOTE -1.98 -0.79 39.15 3-MONTH BILL +0.12 +0.12 27.24 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.64 50.49 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.90 426.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.10 86.98 
Excha Rates 
YEN 107.66 EURO 0.7744 POUND 0.5280 
CANADIAN$ 1.2451 
IN BRIEF 

FDA warns drugmakers about ads 
WASIIINC;T<lN-l."ednral regulators have 
told tho makers of t.lw popular drugs Lovilra 
and Zyrtoc to pull some advnrlisnrnents the 
rngulators said made unsuhstantiatnd claims. 
Tho Food and Drug Administration said 
1.-riday il s•mt lottnrs this week nolil'ying Bayer 
l'harnHtcPutieals Corp. and Pliznr Inc. that a 
tPinvision comnwreial for Lnvitm and thrnn 
dirnct-mail advorlisnmnnts for Zyrtne made 
unsubstantial«1d rlaims of superiority over 
rompnling produets. 

In Lnvitra's easn, Bayer also failed to dis­
doso FDA warnings and product information, 
tlw lnttor said. It was the fourth sueh warning 
l'or l'lizor about Zyrtnc. 

Thn commoreial for Lnvitra, an erectile dys­function drug, fnaturns a woman praising the drug, and, according to the FDA, implying that lwr sexual nxperinrH~e with her partner was satisfying as a rP.sult of her partner's usn of l.nvitra. Shn says the drug is "the best way to nxpnrinnee thn diiTnroncn." Tlw FDA said this is an unprovable claim. 
Thn eomnwrcial also fails to highlight side .oll'eets and FDA warnings, the ageney said. 
Raytheon puts executive on leave 
BOSTON -Dnfonsn contractor Haytheon Co. plaend its financial ehinf on leave and olTerod to pay $12 111 illion to sottle a government inquiry into accounting pradicos at one of its units. 
Separatoly, Haytheon said Friday it has agmml to pay $39 million to settle a sharehold­nr lawsuit over the 2000 sale of its engineering and construetion business to Washin~-,rton Group Intnrnational. 
To settle tho Securities and Exchange Commission inquiry at its commuter aircraft business, Haytheon said that along with paying the $12 million, it would agree to a cease-and­dtlsist order over accounting violations, without admitting wrongdoing. 
Edward S. Pliner, its senior vice president and chief' financial ollieer, and a lower-level mnployoe whose name was not released were put on administrative leave related to the investigation. Haytheon said the SEC staff has tentatively dedd11d to reeommend that the full commission bring action against the two nmployees. 

Associated Press 

WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. -A three-year-old crime and terrorism database that came under fire for sharing and collecting personal infor­mation was closing down Friday because a federal grant ran out. 
Elements of the Multistate Anti­Terrorism Information Exchange ­Matrix -may live on if individual states decide to fund it on their own, said Bob Cummings, exeeutive vice president for the Institute for Intergovernmental Research in Tallahassee, whieh helped coordinate the Matrix network. 
"We're winding up the project today. The system that the federal 
THE OBSERVER 


USINESS 
page 7 

Patent victory gives Lilly breathing room. 
Investors are cheered over drugmaker's crucial win in Zyprexa patent case 
Associated Press 
LNDIANAI'OLIS -Eli Lilly and Co.'s vietory in a dosnly watelwd Zyprexa patent ease has given tho drug­maker some nnndnd breath­ing room while it confronts a snries of rmnaining chal­lnngns surrounding its best­soiling drug: its shrinking 
U.S. marknt, a sorins of lia­bility lawsuits and remain­ing patont chall<1ngos. 
Lilly's victory will be appoaled by at least two of' the throe gnnorie drug man­ufaeturnrs who lost in l.hn dncision rnl11asnd Thursday allnr marknts dosml, but li1r now invnstors are chnnrnd. Tlwy son t Lilly's stock up $2.91 or 5.3 percent on Friday to dosn at $5H.07 on thn Nnw York Stock l(xchangn. 
U.S. District Judge Hiehard L. Young's 212­page ruling rnjeetod the daims by Zenith Goldline l'harmaenutieals, Dr. Heddy's Laboratories and tlw U.S. arm of Israel's Teva l'harmaceutieal Industries that sought to invalidatn the 1993 patent on grounds induding an allegation that Lilly misled the f'nderal patnnt ollice. 

II' the ruling had gone the other way-and it still eould on appoal -it thrnat­nned to rosond Lilly to the financial doldrums it found itsell' after losing a key pounds and 10 new treat­is due to concerns that llowev11r, he c.oiH'.ndnd patent on tho anti-dnprns­ment indications in its Zyprexa causes patients to conventional wisdom tells sant Prozae live years ago. research and development gain weight and ean lead to doctors that wnight gain can Zyprexa, an anti-psychotic pipelirw. typo-2 (adult-onset) dia­lead to diabntes, and some drug under patent through Should Lilly knep prevail­betes. have turned away from prn­20 II, has brought in about ing in court, none of its Lilly is defonding itself in seribing Zyprnxa as a result. one third of all of Lilly's rev­major patents will run out about 140 product-liability Lilly has had to adjust its enues in recent y11ars, f(ll' more than five years.But lawsuits in federal courts marketing stratngy for including $4.4 billion last there are a few elouds on involving more than 300 Zyprnxa l.o targnt those year, and likely an even the horizon, too. The patent elaimants alleging adverse patients whose symptoms grnatnr share ol' its profits. covers only the U.S. market, effects from taking Zyprnxa. are moderate to hard to 
"It allows us and our whieh accountod for $2.4 Two of those eases seP.k trnat. The result has bnnn a sha1"•1holders to li1cus on the billion of the Zyprexa sales class-action status. narrowing of Zyprexa's business fundamentals of in 2004, down 8 percent Additional eases have been market, Taurnl said. Lilly," said Lilly ehairman from the previous year. filed in Carmela and in state Also, the patent chal­and chiel' executive Sidney Zyprexa's total sales rose courts. It's not dear when lenges to Zyprexa are far Taurel. 3 percent in 2004, but the any of the cases will go to from ovnr. l>r. Hnddy's, 
Shareholders will gather company said in a recent trial. based in India, and Miami­for tho annual meeting in seeurities' filing that it "There is no proof that based lvax Corp., the pamnt Indianapolis on Monday, expects U.S. and worldwido Zyproxa has any greater of Zenith c;oldlinn, already when Lilly also releases its sales to fall this yoar. propensity to cause dia­have indieated they will first quarter results. Taurel Part of the drug's U.S. betes" that any other drugs appnar Young's ruling to the will assure them the compa­decline is due to competi­in its elass, known as atypi­U.S. Court of Appeals for thn ny has a bright financial tion from other anti-psy­cal anti-psyehoties, Taurel Federal Cireuit in l'uture, with nine drug eom-chotic drugs, but some also said. Washington, D.C. 


Controversial terror database shuts dow-n 
government has basically paid for, the application itself to the users and the states, will either be assumed by the states or will no longer exist," he said. 
Matrix was down to four partici­pants -Pennsylvania, Florida, Ohio and Connecticut -after several states opted out due to privacy con­cerns, legal issues or cost. It operat­ed with grant money from the departments of Justice and Homeland Security, but that funding expired Friday. 
"They can put a good face on it, saying that the grant ran out, but frankly if there wasn't growing oppo­sition to this kind of intrusive, inves­tigatory technique, the funding wouldn't have run out," said Howard Simon, exeeutive director for tho Florida American Civil Liberti11s Union. 
Matrix hclp11d in terror-related investigations and to identify and locate suspects in violent crimes, drug-related eases, home invasions and other investigations, law enforcement ollicials said. 
In Pennsylvania, the system had 
1.9 million queries since July 2003. A component of the database allows investigators to search for informa­tion based on ineompletc data, such as a portion of a vehicle license num­ber and description or a name and date of birth, aecording to the Pennsylvania State Police. 

page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Monday, April 18, 2005 
Youth face high death rates in poor nations 
Nearly 11 million children die before age 5 
Associated Press guignon, the bank's chief econo­
mist, said: "I must admit many 
WASHINGTON -Almost 11 countries are ofT track and a million children in developing huge effort is needed" to help countries die each year before them progress toward the 2015 the age of five, most of them goals. Some nations are more from causes that are preventa­behind schedule than others, ble in wealthier countries, the particularly in sub-Saharan World Bank said in a report Africa. released Sunday. One section of the report 
The causes include acute res­tracks progress on all the indica­piratory infection, diarrhea, tors. It provides evidence that measles and malaria, which inequalities within countries ­together account for 48 percent between rich and poor, urban of child deaths in the developing and rural and male and female world, according to the report populations -may be as much called World Development a barrier to achieving the goals Indicators. as inequalities between coun­
"Rapid improvement before tries. 1990 gave hope that mortality In India, for example, school rates for infants and children attendance rates for the richest would be cut by two-thirds in the 20 percent of the population are following 25 years," the report twice as high as for the poorest. said. "But progress slowed And in the West African nation almost everywhere in the of Mali, "the mortality rate of 1990s." children from poor, rural fami­
The report said only 33 coun­lies is twice as high as those tries are on track to reach the from rich urban ones," the bank 2015 goal of reducing child mor­report said. tality rates by two-thirds from its On primary school, the report 1990 levels. It said only two says, 51 countries have already regions -Latin America and achieved the goal of complete the Caribbean and Europe and enrollment of eligible children Central Asia -may be on track and seven more, mostly in Latin to achieve the target. America, are on track, but 
Five years ago world leaders progress has been slow in parts outlined a number of develop­of Africa and Asia. ment objectives, formally known Worldwide, more than 100 as the Millennium Development million primary-age school chil­Goals, to achieve by 2015. They dren remain out of school, include boosting primary school almost 60 percent of them girls. enrollments, removing obstacles "This situation endures despite to greater numbers of girls going overwhelming evidence that to school and improving health teaching children how to read, care. write and count can boost eco­
Many countries have made nomic growth, arrest the spread progress toward achieving the of AIUS and break the cycle of goals, but Francois Bour-poverty," the report said. 

Detective killed at headquarters 
Associated Press an adjacent office and jumped concern since early March, 
onto a service road, Esserman when a man in the middle of a 

PROVIDENCE, R.I. -A said at a news conference. He rape retrial in Atlanta alleged­police detective was killed with was captured after a struggle a ly overpowered a court deputy his own gun at department few blocks away. No charges and took her gun, then killed headquarters by a suspect who had been filed. the judge presiding over his was not handcuffed and man­The chief would not say how case and a court reporter. A aged to get hold of the weapon, Carpio managed to get Allen's deputy outside the courthouse the police chief said. weapon, and would not discuss also was killed, as was a feder­
The killing of James Allen, a other details leading up to the al customs agent whose pickup 27-year veteran, came on the shooting. He would not say if was stolen elsewhere in the heels of a string of incidents there were witnesses. area. that raised concerns about "The investigation has begun Just weeks before, the hus­security of people in the crimi­and we will find answers, but band and mother of a a nal justice system. not here this morning," he Chicago federal judge who had 
Allen, 50, was shot in the said. been threatened in the past detective conference room Esserman also would not dis­were slain in their home. while questioning Estenban cuss the protocols for carrying Visitors to the Providence Carpio about the stabbing of weapons inside police head­police building have been an 84-year-old woman who quarters or for interviewing required to pass through a survived the attack, Chief Dean potential suspects. A gun metal detector since last fall, Esserman said. Carpio was not believed to be Allen's was when a man walked into the under arrest and had been found below the window lobby with a loaded gun and taken out of handcuffs, he said. where Carpio allegedly told an officer he might hurt 
Carpio, 26, allegedly grabbed escaped. himself or someone else. the officer's gun, shot him, Security in government Officers disarmed him and no broke a third floor window in buildings has been a greater one was hurt. 

Surveillance dominates society 
In a world marked by cameras and videos, all eyes are on the public 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -It's there when you ride an elevator and make a purchase in a store. There's no escaping it in a museum. Look up at the stop­light and a camera may be watching you. 
Being lens-shy just doesn't cut it in today's camera-crazed world. Chances are, during a good part of' your day, there's a camera nudging into your pri­vate space. 
There's no doubt surveillance 
Concession Stand Training Information: Tuesday, April 12th Monday, April 18th Tuesday, April 19th 
*All Training Sessions located in LaFortune Montgomery Theater *All Training Session at NOON and 4pm. 
*Attend if your Club, Organization, Hall applied for a 2005 Football Concession Stand 
*At least 2 people pet Stand MUST BE TRAINED 

cameras can aid police and protect property. Videos show­ing crimes are played routinely on news programs to help catch perpetrators. 
But those same cameras can make people feel violated and uneasy. Their broad sweep makes no distinction between revelers at a parade and wrongdoers at a riot. And they never blink. 
"I don't like to be watched," said K. Ann Largie, 29, of Laurel, Md. "It makes me feel uncomfortable." · elevator ceilings and lamp posts. Others are more obvious, such as one fixed near an American flag adorning the Justice Department. 
Some closed-circuit cameras run around-the-clock. Others come on for specific events. In Washington, 14 police cameras roll during parades, demon­strations and when the city goes on high alert. They are turned on a half-dozen or so times a year, and the police department publicizes it. 
Kevin Morison, the depart­
Nikki Barnett, 31, of ment's spokesman, said there Burtonsville, Md., stopped was a lot of hyperbole when showcasing her "happy dance" the cameras were introduced. in elevators after learn·ing Critics claimed police were many of them are monitored by watching people leave home to cameras. "I stopped doing silly go to work, then come home at things," she says. "I don't want night. "Frankly, we have no to portray myself in a certain interest in doing that, or capac­light." ity to do that," he said. 
Closed-circuit cameras are That system is part of a larg­spreading in cities, a trend has­er one. At a police command tened by concerns about ter­center, feeds from those cam­rorist attacks but by other rea­eras are watched along with sons, too, including the mere those from the city's subway availability of the technology. system, transportation depart­
"If I'm mugged at an ATM, ment and more. I'm glad the bank has cameras Critics contend the camera so the person can be tracked lies or at least misleads. An down," said Justine Stevens, innocent conversation can 32, of Arlington, Va. "But cam­appear conspiratorial, depend­eras in elevators monitoring ing on the angle, the lighting or behavior seems weird." many other factors. 
Indeed, for every videotaped But Paul Rosenzweig, senior image of a crime that leads to legal research fellow at the an arrest there are dozens of conservative Heritage perfectly innocent moments Foundation, said today's world captured. demands that people be more 
"Cameras used for specifie open to the use of cameras. suspects and at specific times, "You can't sweep back the that's good law enforcement," tide of technological develop­said Peter Swire, professor of ment and you can't blink your law at Ohio State University. eyes to necessity," he said. "We "But I don't want it part of my are in a changed circumstance permanent record every time I today. For us, September 11 scratch myself on a publie brings it home." street." Chicago is working on plans 
In Nashville, Tenn., a middle to link more than 2,000 public school installed cameras that surveillance cameras in a net­parents, in a $4.2 million law­work that would use sophisti­suit, said captured their kids in catnd software to alert authori­various stages of locker-room ties to potential crimes. undress. School officials say In Los Angeles, the police the cameras were put up in department recently deployed plain view to watch an outside a remote camera surveillance door and hallway. system that is used to identify, 
Perhaps nowhere are cam­track and record criminal eras more ubiquitous than in activity in some parts of the the nation's capital: federal city. The system is equipped buildings, museums, parks, with "intelligent" video capabil­traffic lights. ities and facial recognition soft­
Some are discreetly placed in ware. 



Summer Service Project Internships 
8 weeks of service-learning in cities in the U.S.
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Three-credit theology course $2000 scholarship, additional $1000 AmeriCorps grant is possible Sponsored by ND Alumni Clubs and The Andrews Scholarship Fund 



The following sites are still available: 
Akron. OH-Camp Christopher for children with disabilities Albuquerque, NM-Male student needed tor Dismas House Albuquerque, NM -Male student needed for Good Shepherd Shelter Ann Arbor, Ml-Lifeline Program for the elderly, needs student with a car Columbus, GA-Stewart House, car recommended Denver, CO-The Bridge Project with children Des Moines, lA -Catholic Worker House Elizabeth, NJ -St. Joseph Social Service, for a local student Gallup, NM -Villa Guadalupe, working with persons who are elderly Greensboro, NC-Guilford Interfaith Hospitality, needs student with a car Hartford, CT-Female student needed to work with a children's camp & other services Huntsville, AL-A female student with a car, a few sites from which to choose Jackson, Ml-St. Louis Center Male student needed, Spanish helpful Jacksonville, FL-L' Arche Harbor House, a community of people with disabilities Lansing, MI-Mother Teresa House for persons who are terminally ill Long Island -Interfaith Nutrition Network, for a local student Michigan City, IN-Share Foundation, a camp for persons with disabilities Nappanee, IN -Boys and Girls Club, summer program Peoria, lL -Guardian Angel Home, for a local student Rockford. IL-Medical clinic, needs a female student with a car Sa~o1 Diego. CA -Food Bank St. Louis, MO-Marion Hall, a home tor teenage girls who have been abused Starved Rock, IL-Ottawa Friendship House, Washington, DC -Spanish-speaking female needed to work with women and children 
Applications are available at httn://cent.et·forsocialconcerns.nd.edu/acadcmic/summer/SSP.shtml or at the front desk at the esc. 
TI--lE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, April 18, 2005 
THE OBSERVER A counterculture force of a different color 
Th~ lndepnulnu, Daily Nnuspaper Servi•x Notre D.me llml Saint Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Vap Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff CoNTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame ou Lac and Saint Maryr's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of ., the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
·~'­
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. -Commentarie.~, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is.encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 'S99 2-4000) is published Monday thruu~h Friday o:cept during exam and vacation periods. A~ubs.::ription to Tin: Observer is $100 for one academic year; $55 for one semester. 
The Obsc::rver i5 publi~ohed ;tt: POSTMASTER· 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrctdoru w: Notre Dame, IN 465%-0779 The0b5erver Periodical postagt p.1id Jt Nom~ Dame P.O. Box779 
and additional mailing otJkes. 024 South Dining Hall 
Norrc Dame, IN 46556-0779 

The Obsttvet i~ a nu:mber ofthe Associated Pl'esll. All reproduction rights ate reserved. • 
TODAY'S STAFF 

In the span of American history, no group of people has intrigued me more than the hippies. For starters, who has never had the subconscious desire to grow a white man's afro, wear a tie-dyed shirt, and get Joey stoned while driving Falco around aimlessly in a Volkswagen microbus Forty Ounces covered in peace to Falco signs? More impor­tantly, though, even if you don't share these nostalgic bohemian delusions, it is still difficult not to admire 'the way in which this outrageous group of tree-hugging, acid-tripping sex fiends managed to gain national recognition as a powerful political force in the late 1960s through highly successful peace and civil rights protests. 
Nevertheless, I cannot help but be slightly disturbed by the fact that the contemporary view of these sociopolit­ical revolutionaries is one of complete contempt and disdain. After all, instead of reminiscing respectfully about these pacifists, bohemians and counterculturalists, modern America has an undeniable passion for mock­ing them as hippies. Actually, I believe it was the illustrious philosopher, Erie Cartman of South Park, Colorado, who once said, "Hippies-they're every­where. They wanna save the Earth, but all they do is smoke pot and smell bad." And how can we forget that other great wordsmith, the late President Honald Heagan, who quipped, "A hippie is someone who walks like Tarzan, looks like Jane, and smells like Cheetah." Clearly, despite their vast cultural improvements to American society, the consensus is that hippies suck because they smell. 
Which finally brings me to my over­all point -when is someone going to impose equally negative nomenclature upon the latest counterculture move­ment in America? Yes, I said it once and I'll say it again; hippies are still amongst us. Sure, today's radical extremists don't listen to The Grateful Dead while rolling joints and eating organic tofu at campus McGovern ral­lies, but they do still represent a radi­cal departure from the sociopolitical normalcy that has defined the United States since its inception. I'm talking, of course, about the religious funda­mentalists who have crossed every line ever drawn in the sand between church and state, and appear poised to impose their interpretation of Jesus' word on a nation filled with numerous freely-worshipping non-Christians. Of course, mainstream society will never apply a disparaging "tree-hugger"­esque name to them, though, because while the hippies had marijuana on their side, today's counterculturalists have God, and He's usually not the best guy to mess around with. 
As a result, evangelical Christians across the country, led by the rarely­mentioned Dominionists, are staging a Biblical crusade against the secular American political system. To cite a few examples, this involves efforts to post the Ten Commandments in every courthouse in the nation, rewrite schoolbooks to depict a more Christian interpretation of U.S. history. perse­cute homosexuals for lifestyle prefer­ences that may be entirely inborn, rewrite the pledge of allegiance to reflect the importance of Jesus, permit ministers to endorse political candi­dates from their pulpits-while main­taining their nonpolitical tax exemp­tions -and appoint justices to the Supreme Court who follow Old Testament law and seek to eliminate the First Amendment religious free­doms of the many Jews, Muslims, Buddhists and atheists living as free citizens in the United States. 
In fact, a mere glance at the dia­logue of these fundamentalists is enough to make a truly patriotic American shiver in his or her boots. One top lobbyist, for example, once denounced John Lennon's utopian vision in the song "Imagine" as "a sec­ular anthem" bent on spreading "clone plantations, child sacrifice, legalized polygamy and hard-core porn." Another leader of the Dominionist movement has voiced the fact that his "job is to reclaim America for Christ, whatever the cost. As the vice regents of God, we are to exercise godly dominion and influence over our neighborhoods, our schools, our gov­ernment ... " Finally, as a part of his movement to eliminate the filibuster, Senate majority leader and future presidential candidate Bill Frist agreed to take part in a telecast spon­sored by Christian conservatives that wilf portray Democrats as "against people of faith" for attempting to block President Bush's judicial nominees. Clearly, the "wall of separation between church and state" described so eloquently by Thomas Jefferson in his monumental letter to the Danbury Baptist Association in 1802 has gone the way of Sodom and Gomorrah. 
As I see it, though, the threat to a truly free America presented by these "nco-hippies" is far greater than any­thing that the participants of the 1960s counterculture movement could have ever accomplished. The fact is, it never mattered how much political influence those original hippies gained, because the nation would never have considered taking their beliefs on free love, drug use, environ­mentalism and human rights entirely seriously. After all, as Cartman said, they "smoke pot and smell bad." 
Today's counterculture movement, though, presents itself as a group of moral, pious and upright citizens whose only "crime" has been an intense devotion to God. Consequently, anyone who bothers to question their unbelievably far-right positions on social issues is deemed a heathen who is "against people of faith," leaving a very gullible America with only one conclusion about contemporary poli­tics: · 
The Democratic Party is going to burn in HelL 
Joey Falco is a sophomore American Studies major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be reached at jfalco@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sariily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Sports Kate Antonacci Justin Schuver 
OBSERVER POLL 
!:: 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Katie Perry Chris Khorey Tricia DeGroot Tom Dorwart 
Submit aLetter 
"Great spirits have always
:: •• : .,.,. ·-.: ' •• :. :':': ••,:; .-::: ,.... ::·., .; ......:, ·:=<::-:,:-:-:' ·"'<·~·· ·: ·.·: ··:·.. -~<·.
Viewpoint Scene What color should the 2005 
encountered violent opposition 
Joey King Christie Boisen 
"The Shirt" be? 
from mediocre minds." 

Graphics Illustrator Desiree Zamora Meg Dwyer 

to the Editor at
. •:.. '.-. .;: .::· ··.. .;.:....... '·,; :-: '··· .... . ··:-.c::-: :<·.
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 
Albert Einstein 

www.ndsmcobserver.com www.nclsmcobservef.com 
scientist
. ,,,,· ';l.'t .. 
·::···:·-:··:-:::::::··:.:-::::·.::::::::·:-:>: ::·:::·:·::':>·=·::::-::·,;::·»':·····-··· 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Monday, April 18, 2005 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Resolving social security 
As nvidenced by a recent letter to the that an enormous investment bubble editor regarding "privatizing" Social would result, the government would Security, it is more obvious than ever also have indirect control over a huge that Americans are addicted to govern­portion of the nation's publicly traded ment programs. Social Security is companies. Consequently, the govern­going bankrupt and the Bush apologet­ment -just like any major stockholder ies have begun building a right-wing -would potentially have the power to monumnnt to the lel't-wing idea that appoint members to the boards of people are incapable of saving their directors of these companies. Call it own money. fascist or socialist. Either way, nothing 
Soeial Security is not a "lockbox" in gets better. whieh a porson can hido money until The only actual solution is a gradual retiremont. It is a redistribution mech­abolition of the entire system. anism, and the notion of privatizing it Unfortunately I do not have room to doesn't makn any logical sense. Any detail out how this could be done, but tax money skimmed from your pay­if you are interested go to dwck now goes to pay tho pensions of www.mises.org and investigate. your grandparents. Thestl "personal The time has come for serious accounts" would intnrrupl tho now or rnform. Instead of creating one gov­money to the retirees, and the govern­ernment program to solve the prob­nwnt will havn no way to pay its debt lems or another, it is time to admit we to tlwm. The Left would preach the have a problem. Those of you on the gospel of high.nr taxes, while the Hight lnft and on the right need to take a would borrow more money f'rom deep breath and say confidently: "My nowlwrn. Bmwlits would be cut and name is X, and I am addicted to the tlw rntirnnwnt agn would be raised. government." 
Arn you worri11d ynt? IIi X. Welcome to reality. 
Our rnonPy would thus be invested in tlws11 p11rsonal accounts, which an1 Scott Wagner stock in private corporations that have College Libertarian President lwnn approved by tho government. junior Bnsidns tho Ihopef'ully) obvious f'aet April\4 
A suggestion for our future 
As tho year slowly winds down for the dass of 2005. minds inevitably 11ock to rnnmorins of thn past four years: the friends, thn laughtnr, nvnn the dasscs. After the cer­emony of graduation next month, we will all move on to new lives in new places with ll!lW pnopln, yet within all of our hearts, we will always carry these mnmories of our univer­sity. No doubt, all of us will look back on the University of Notre Dame with great fond­ness. 
Nevnrtholnss, some questions remain. What has Notre Dame inspired us to do? Ilow will we share the blessings that we have eneountered bore with the rest of' the world? I low will we rnspond to the rest of the world'? 
We can begin with a little pledge. Over the past weeks, a committee of senior class mmnbnrs has gathered for the sake of pro­moting the 2005 Senior Class Pledge of Soda! Hesponsibility. It is the hope of this committee that all graduating members of thn class of 2005 will keep the ideals of goodness, charity, truth and justice in our !warts throughout our lives. The Pledgo reads: 
"Tiw University sfleks to cultivate in its students not only an appreciation for the great achi!wenHmts of' human beings but also a disdplinnd sensibility to the poverty, injustice and oppwssiori that burdfln the lives of' so many. The aim is to create a s1mse of' human solidarity and concern for the eornrnon good that will bear fruit as lnarning boeornes service to justice (University of Notre Dame Mission StatenwntJ." 

E-mail Sarah at 

"I pledge to incorporate these values into an exploration ol' the social. humanitarian and environmental consequences of any job I consider; and to strive to make these val­ues present in any organization for which I work." 
It is short. It is simple. Some of you may think nothing of it. But contained within these words are the manifestations of God's charity which the University of Notre Dame has taught us so well. These must be remembered. 
During the week of April 18-22, represen­tatives from the committee will be around campus, collecting signatures of seniors who wish to commit to the Pledge. Those who sign the Pledge will receive a wallet-sized card with the Pledge on it to take with them. 
Signatures will be collected through Senior Week and displayed during Commencement WBekend. It may not sound like much, but with the business cards in hand, hopefully you will be able to remind yourself of your commitment and maybe someday may not even need to be reminded at all. 
All graduates of' Notre Dame remember the football games, the parties, the room­mates. It is the hope and prayer of this com­mittee that we, the class of 2005, will always remember the values so dear to the mission of the University, values of ehl).rity to all Christians and to all of humanity. Please let this pledge be ~he start. 
Benjamin O'Connor senior Alumni Hall April IS 


Re-evaluating April 14 
You thought April 14th was bad? Now we realizn that April, in gennral, 
Well, what Ken Fowle(s April 14 is a bad month. The Branch Davidian Inside Column fails to mention is that it standoll' in Waeo and the Oklahoma was actually the 15th ofApril that City Bombing happened on the 19th of President Lincoln died. And the Titanic this month. The 20th has Columbine, finally sunk. And don't forget, every Hitler's birthday and some militia mas­year, this date will be Federal Tax Day. sacre in Colorado. 
And we know how bad all of this is So before you start complaining that because it is also our birthday. Imagipe the 14th is the worst day in history, having friends unable to buy you any­remember: you still havn tomorrow to thing except a pack of Hello Kitty pen­look fill'ward to. cils for your party because their par­ents waited too long to me their taxes. Alicia Lachiondo, Carolyn Sweeney Or your town decides to do an Abn juniors Uncoln vigil the day you're trying to Howard Hall celebrate becoming a teenager. Aprill5 
Saint Mary's ring holds memories 
In response to the April 15 letter to the nditor, "College's ring has rich tradi­tion," it's so true. I never take my ring oil'. In fact, since graduating, I have nwt so many alumnae because they recognize the ring and know the meaning behind it. I feel like a little piece of the friendships formed and mnrnorins madn at Saint Mary's are carried with me in the ring. Also, it is such a distinctive ring that people often ask about it because it is so unlikn any other college's ring. 
Christine MaurhofT alumna Class of 200] Aprill'i 
U-WIRE 


The adventure continues 
I think the bookstore has it out lbr me. They don't want me to ever ~:,rraduate so that I ean keep buying new books from them every year. They have succeeded in preventing me from attend­
Steve
ing many crucial 
Shlnney
classes, lectures 
and tests by 
The Utah State 
always playing 
University
classic geek 
Utah 
movies in the 
Statesmen 
bottom floor of 
the TSC such as "Lord of' the 
Rings," ::chost~usters" and, of 
course, Tron. 

As amazing as cinematic achieve­ments all of this films may be, no one them can stop me in my tracks before I brave the gauntlet of clubs and vendors like the great-grand­daddy of all nerdy motion pictures. Naturally, I'm referring to "Star Wars." 
I've said it many times, but I love "Star Wars." I love the glorious vic­tory of "A New Hope." I love the bit­ter twinge of defeat in "The Empire Strikes Back." I especially love the gold bikini of "Return of the Jedi." 
I even love episodes one and two. This fact has made me an outcast, shunned, mocked and beat upon by my friends just for stating my opin­ion. At times I've even felt like the fifth dentist. You know, the one who still doesn't recommend Trident. 
This is not because -as I know some Qf' you will suggest ­because I have taken Lucas's "spe­cial kool-aid" and will mindlessly eat up any drivel that he shovels out. It's because light-sabers are, always have been and always will be, just about the coolest thing on earth and nothing you trendy little Lucas-bashers out there can to will change that. Do you hear me? Nothing! . 
Whoa, sorry, I get a little riled up about this stuff some times. You should see me when someone says Wolverine could beat up Spiderman. 
I'll admit though, the naming has been off as of late. "Attack of the 
Clones" sounds like a '50s horror 
movie that "Mystery Sdeneo 

Theater 3000" would use and "The 
Phantom Mnnaee" is just plain mis­
leading. Not only worn t.hern no 
phantoms, nothing was really that 

menadng. Thny should have taken 
a more truthf'ul approach and 

callnd it "The Amphibian Menace." 
I bring this topic up because I'm sure "Star Wars: Episode Ill Hevenge of the Sith" will open in theatnrs on May 19. I'm actually more excited for this one than I was for Episode One. Partially because I can go to a midnight showing and not worry about dass the next day. 
I admit I'll probably be in eos­tume for the event. I don't aetually own any Jedi dothns but I ligurn the condusion of my favorite sd-li series only happens once so I might as well make the best of it. 
Besides, evnn if I show up in full Jodi robes, complete with light­saber and a beard. there will surllly be some kid crammed into a three !bot tall garbage can, trying to wheel himself around like H2-D2 so I won't be the gnnkinst one there. 
I'd be lying if I said I wasn't nerv­ous. What if the movie's not as good as I hopn it is'? What if I hale it? Even if I love the movie, 1:an I cope with the series boing finished? 
For the last one, I know I'll b11 OK. Thn movies may be done, but that's not what I truly love. I love the universe thny dnscribn. I love the fact that thn morn I lind out about that world thn morn I lind to enjoy. 
Most ol' all, I love how as long as there's a galaxy far l'ar away, I'll always have a placn to bnlong. 
Geek on. 

This column originally appeared on April 12 in The Utah Statesmen, the daily publication at Utah State University. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Monday, April 18, 2005 
Emerson String Quartet lights up Leighton 

Tonality and endurance emerge as strong points ofmusicians' performance 
By BRANDON HOLLIHAN 
Scene Writer 
In a.ddition to Saturday evening's concert, the Emerson String Quartet also held a two-hour mas­ter class in the Leighton Concert Hall that afternoon for chamber music students. 
Students such as pianist Kui Min, cellist Noelle Thorn and violinist Leila Taschek performed chamber works for quartet members Eugene Drucker and Lawrence Dutton, including a piano trio by Dvorak and one of Beethoven's string quartets. 
The Emerson Quartet has made it a goal to educate the "next gen­eration" of performers and make them aware of the potency behind music from the Classical and Romantic periods. 
"Passing on the torch is impor­tant in our career," Dutton said. "We want to convey to students that this music is alive and vital, and it still has importance." 
Dutton also hinted at the imagery conveyed by the works the Emerson Quartet played later that day. 
"It conveys great emotion and the whole gamut of what is good and evil in the world," he said. 
Students responded to Saturday's session with enthusiasm. 
"[We were told] a lot about ensemble playing, dynamics, tempo, playing from section to sec­tion," Thorn said. "It was really interesting. They had a lot of good things to say." 
Min was astounded by Dutton and Drucker's methods at the mas­ter class. 
"[It was an] absolutely stunning, dynamic and intense pedagogical approach," hll said. "Every single point that Mr. Dutton and Mr. Drucker brought out is right on the money, and one hour passes like a blink. 
''I'm greatly amazed and inspired by their searching for perfection in an extremely professional way." 
Speaking generally about the Emerson Quartet, Dutton explained that along with perform­ing and tutoring, the group spe­cializes heavily in recording ses­sions with Deutsche Grammophon. 
"Our mission has been recording mostly, working through the 'mas­terpieces' of Western music," he said. 
As classical music in general sees its place in the recording industry dwindling, the quartet is grateful for the successful partner­ship they have had with Grammophon since the late eight­ies. 
"We're one of the lucky ones who continue to make recordings, and Grammophon continues to thrive," said violinist Philip Setzer. "There's very little orchestra and opera being recorded now, but there's also a lot more with the Internet, such as I classics." 
In addition to giving master class sessions at colleges while touring, the Emerson Quartet also serves as the Quartet-in-Residence at Stony Brook University in New York. They not only perform but also fre­quently give seminars at Carnegie Hall. 
Dutton said he enjoys getting the opportunity to use a concert hall, such as (:arnegie or the Leighton, as a venue with which to teach stu­dents. 
"As a student you only get to work in small rooms," he said. "A lot of students don't normally get to perform in a big hall, and mas­ter classes are a good place to do that." 
Contact Brandon Hollihan at bhoUiha@nd.edu 
By BRANDON HOLLIHAN 
Scene Writer 

In its debut season, the Leighton Concert Hall has hosted the Chieftains, St. Martin­in-the-Fields Academy, New York Philharmonic and Ronan Tynan -music players all highly capable of producing large-scale, harmonious music. 
And yet, it was the tiny Emerson String Quartet that showed Saturday night how special a venue the Leighton is. 
Violinists Philip Setzer and Eugene Drucker, violist Lawrence Dutton and cel­list" David Fincke! played for approximately two and a half hours with a sound so pre­cise it actually caused the Leighton to emanate reverberations from the special­ized ceiling that hangs above the stage. 
The Emerson Quartet's program consist­ed of Mozart's "String Quartet in G Major," Shostakovich's "Quartet No. 2 in A Major" and the 40-minute "Quartet in C Sharp Minor" by Beethoven. For encore they per­forme'd the 'Scherzo'' movement of Mendelssohn's "Quartet for Strings No. 3 in E Flat Major," part of the Emerson Quartet's recent Deutsche Grammophon release of all of Mendelssohn's string quar­tets. 
The evening began with the simpler Mozart quartet. Melodic, almost anticipat­ed music highlighted the first three move­ments, but the fourth movement flourished magnificently, showcasing Mozart's orches­tral genius and revealing the tonal genius of the Emerson Quartet. Throughout the entire movement they played comfortably, reserving the energy needed for the work's climax. The audience responded to the movement with hearty applause, perhaps surprising the players with how well they were received. 
The effort put forth in the Mozart, how­ever, seemed modest when compared with the opening of the Shostakovich quartet, a lyrical and furious first movement that thoroughly altered the quartet's charisma. Hair became scuffled and sweat rolled down the cheeks of the players. It was a brilliant follow-up to the lighter Mozart. 
The second movement of the Shostakovich was the most moving, with Eugene Drucker playing a terse but beauti­ful melody to begin and end the movement as the other players accompanied him through long, non-vibrato chords. The movement was very nimble, requiring syn­chronization and understanding of one's function in the quartet, because Shostakovich's quartet did not always treat the four string parts as equals (unlike what one often might hear in a Haydn or Mozart quartet), and so listening to the other parts in the quartet was vital. 
The Beethoven quartet, played after intermission, was a true test of endurance, and even Emerson, perhaps the leading quartet in the world, exhibited signs of duress upon its completion. 
The "Quartet in C Sharp Minor" consists of seven movements, with the performers going through all seven without pause, and explores a plethora of rhythms, counter­point and tempii made available in the Classical period of music. The movement began sweetly with the opening Adagio and Allegro movements. By the time the piece reached the Presto movement it seemed to place much heavier demands on the quartet. 
Because things built up so greatly in the latter half of the Beethoven, the perform­ance was not as viciously crisp and refined as everything else that evening -but how could it have been? It was clear to the audience the kinds of demands this quartet places on performers, and audience mem­bers felt privileged to have experienced a near perfect display of the work. The Leighton appreciated it as well, demon­strating how smaller chamber groups can be just as dynamic in the concert hall as any full-scale orchestra has been this sea­son. 
Saturday night at the PAC featured a very revealing and powerful show, and coupled with the master class held that afternoon, it would be a shame if the Emerson Quartet does not come back to Notre Dame in the near future. 
Contact Brandon Hollihan at bholliha@nd.edu 
THE 0HSERVER 
CENE
Monday, April 18, 2005 
page 13 
I 

l I 
I 
'Arcadia' entertains with fast-paced fun 
Farcical play by Tom Stoppard examines human relationships with a unique twist 
1\y MEGAN O'NEIL 
Set·1w Wril<'r 
WPII, wnll. What havn wn 
lwn~'? 
A pnriod pinee not just l'or l·:nglish and history bul'l's, but ainwd al. ardtitndurn, physics and math majors, as Wl~ll'? 
Or is il.'? 
"An~adia," thn Tom Stop­pard l'arcn running through Sunday in thn l>neio Mainstagn ol' thn l>n Bartolo CPntnr l'or tlw l'nrl'orming Arts, is all that and much morn. 
An 1wnning at onn ol' its l'ast-pacnd pnrl'ormanens rlnarly dnmonstrates why Stoppard, whos1~ 1>rnvious works inl'iudn "Travnsties" and "l!osnnerantz and c;uildnnstorn arn l>nad," is arguably thn grnatest living playwright. 
With SllVIHI sennns cannily sharing orw snt -the l'ront room ol' the Coverly l'amily estatn in Dnrbyshire, England 
the play alternates bntwenn the prnsnnt and April ol' about 196 years ago. That's when an absent !~haracter about whom this story osten­sibly resolves, Lord Byron, was making his mark both in the litnrary world and in fash­ionable soeial eirdes. 
The brooding poet isn't seen in "Arcadia," but tlw audience should nonntheless enjoy somn delightful creatures ohsnssing about, not neces­
sarily in this ordnr of priority: 
Byron, lwrmits, gardnns, 
Nnwton's law ol' gravity and 
(this is a l'aren, isn't it'?) sex. 
Visiting the Covnrly homn, 
whnrn according to historical 
rneords Byron brielly visitnd, 
arrogant litnrary eritic 
Bnrnard NightingaiP. (John 
Selwwenknr) scrounges for 
any duns that might give him 
an insight on his idol's lil'n. 
Bernard strings together 
flimsy evidP.nen and blatant 
conjneture and eoneludns 
Byron was involvml in a lovn­
triangle inducnd dun) l'oreing 
him 'to abruptly f'len to the 
continent. Lnvel-headnd histo­
rian Hannah .Jarvis (Cai.to 
Hollll) doubts hnr colleague's 
conspiracy theory and sets 
out to provP. him wrong. 
In thn 19th cnntury, thnre is 
indeed an illicit love affair unfolding, but not, initially at least, between who Bernard thinks. It is not the famous playboy Byron who is doing the seducing, but a very mar­ried Mrs. Chaters who works her way through most of the 'male char~ct~·n.;' hi' the. play. · 
Mrs. Chaters never actually 
appears in the play. 

It's hard to keep up with the 
characters, but then half the 
fun is in the attempt to do so. 
The seemingly professional 
but entirely student cast turns 
in a marvelous performance, 
British accents and all. Even 
the butler, Jellaby (Tim 
Stawicki), is flawless, smirk­
ingly complimenting the 
leads: sweet Thomasina Coverly (Carolinn Askew), wise beyond her If> years; her tutor Septimus llodge {l}rew McElligott), hired to ensut·e­this is 1809 after all -that she doesn't become an "edu­cated" woman; and Lady Croom (Sarah Loveland), Thomasina's do-as-1-say-not­as-1-do mother. 
The charming Septimus indulges Thomasina's appetite for calculus problems and attempts to satisfy her curios­ity about sex. In one comical scene, he attnmpts to describo the significance of a "carnal embrace." 
In addition to Hannah Jarvis and Bernard Nightingale, the contemporary-era personali­ties include headstrong understated mathematician 
Valentine  CovP.rly  (T..J.  
McNally) and  ditzy  Chloe  
Coverly.  

Some of the actors' lines get lost in the rapid-fire dialogue, but skillful director Jay Paul Skelton and his splendid cast are clearly mindful of the number one rule of comedy: it's all in the timing. 
And amidst the madness, there are messages aplenty. 
Tom Stoppard and those producing "Arcadia" at Notre Dame are definitely not satis­fied with maintaining room temperature. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 


Tips for throwing an Italian dinner party 
Although most people tend to throw parties based on BiUy .JopJ's "Captain Jack," a nice ehangn of paen would lw an authentic Italian dinner party you can throw for q small group ol' rlosn friends. 
Italian food is great for dinner p<~rtins since most. of thn dislws ean he expanded and served family style. 
Maureen Malloy 

Setting the thnme is very nasy, as well. All you need is a simpln whitn t.abledoth, somo plain wooden baskets for bn~ad, a couple .">'cenes.fhJTn an candles and maybe some Italian opera in thn lt.alian restaurant background. Before gur~sts arrive, set out a niee red table wine, pools of olivn oil on small plates and hearty chunks of Italian bread. Your gunsts may also enjoy litt.l1~ dishns ol' 
·marinated olives to munch on bnl'orn you start serving tho meal. The first eourse r.an be a simple salad of torn lettuce and Italian dressing dashed with pepper, salt and mixed dried Italian hnrhs. Horn arn some reeipns for easy to prnpare moat and pasta dish­es, and of course tho grand finale, a delicious tiramisu. 
Penne with Spicy Vodka Tomato Cream Sauce I pound uncookP.d pnnne pasta 114 cup extra virgin olive oil 4 cloves garlic, minr~nd 1/2 teaspoon crushed rod pnppP.r flakes 1 (2H ounce) can crushed tomatons :V4 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons vodka 1/2 eup heavy whipping eream 1/4 eup chopped fresh parslny 2 (3.5 ounce) links sweet Italian sausagn 
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil. Add pasta and cook for eight to 10 minutes or until al dente; drain. In largn skil­let, heat oil over moderate heat. Hemove easing from sausagn and add to skillet. Cook, breaking up the meat, until brown. Add gar­lic and red pepper and cook, stirring until garlic is golden brown. Add tomatoes and salt; bring to boil. Heduce heat and simmer 15 minutes.. ~dc;l vodka. and cream p.nd bring to boil. Heduce heat to low and add pasta, toss for one minute. Stir in fresh parsley and serve. Serves four. Courtesy of Star Pooley; Copyright © 2005; www.allreeipes.eom., All Rights Heserved 
Chicken Piccata 4 (6-ounce) chicken breasts 2 cups all-purpose flour, seasoned with salt and pepper 1/4 cup olive oil 1/4 cup lemon juice 2 cups chicken stock 1 tablespoon capers 1/3 cup unsalted sweet cream butter 
Dust the chicken breasts with the seasoned flour; shake ofT any excess. Ileat the olive oil in a heavy sided medium saute pan over medium heat and thnn add the chicken breasts. Saute until gold­en brown on both sides. Once the chieknn breasts are brownnd, drain the oil and add the lemon juice, chicken stock and capers to the pan with the chicken. Heduce for about fivn minutes, turning the chicken breasts halfway through. The chicken is donn whnn it is firm to the touch. Turn off the heat and add the buttnr, stirring until melted. Put one chicken brnast on each of four platns and drizzle with remainder of the sauce. Serves four. Courtesy of Matt !aria, Copyright© 2005 Television Food Network, G.P., All Hights Heserved 
Tiramisu Toffee Dessert 1 (1 0. 75 ounce) package frozen prepared pound cake, thawed and cut into 9 pieces 3/4 cup strong brewed coffee 1 cup white sugar 112 cup chocolate syrup 1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese 2 ·cups heavy whipping cream 2 (1.4 ounce) bars chocolate covered English toffee, chopped 
Arrange cake slices on bottom of a rectangular 11 x7 inch baking dish, cutting cake slices if necessary to fit the bottom of the dish. Drizzle coffee over cake. Beat sugar, chocolate syrup and cream cheese in a large bowl with an electric mixer on medium speed until smooth. Add whipping cream; beat on medium speed until light and Jluffy. Spread over cake. Sprinkle with chocolate-cov­ered toffee candy. Spread frosting over cake. Sprinkle with toffee eandy. Cover and refrigerate for at least one hour, but no longer than 24 hours to set dessert and blend flavors. Serves 12. Courtesy of Jackie Smith, Copyright© 2005; www.allrecipes.com., All Rights Reserved 
Contact Maureen Malloy at mmalloyl@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 18, 2005 
ND WOMEN'S CREW 

Rowers demolish Cincinnati, take step toward NCAAs 
strong from the start, easily son-long trek towards the onds ahead of Cincinnati. take out the Bearcats by near­By KYLE CASSILY beating a weak Cincinnati NCAA Championships. Experience proved not to be ly 54 seconds. 
Sports Writer 

crew, with a winning time of Irish coach Martin Stone the sole requisite to success on "The kids were really happy 7:40.4, The Bearcats trailing feels that it is still too early to the day, as the novice fresh­with their places," Stone said 
The Irish used the St. by slightly under 10 seconds. gauge definitive chances of men women forced their com­of his team's thoughts on its Joseph's River to their full The first varsity eight took to gaining a berth, but the victory petitors to rock in their wake performance. advantage Sunday morning on the waters of St. Joseph's next, is still a huge step. Stone as fiercely as their varsity Stone was cool and confident the way..to a rout of Cincinnati. leading from the start, tearing believes there is still much counterparts. in his team's sweep of the 
The early-morning competi­along the course on what more to be accomplished at The first novice eight sped to Bearcats. tion started off on the right would become the fastest time the Big East and Central the forefront and held it the He reserved much of his foot for the Irish women, par­on the day. Cincinnati finished Regional Championships. length of the course, powering judgment in his team's per­ticipating in their sole home over 10 seconds behind an Next up on the river was the its way to an 18-second rout of formance for later, once he regatta of the season. The first Irish finish of 6:34.1. second varsity eight, securing Cincinnati. The second novice had a chance to review film varsity four began the meet in Throughout the regatta, the a seven second success over eight rowed to the finish 27 and go over the data pulled the 2000-meter race alongside Irish never relinquished the the Bearcats. The second var­seconds ahead of its oppo­from the races. the pathways of downtown lead. The first varsity eight sity four added to the number nents. A combined novice and South Bend. victory over Cincinnati is of Irish victories on the day third varsity four doubled the Contact Kyle Cassily at 
The varsity four women were another crucial step in the sea-with a finish that was 16.6 sec-previous margin of victory to kcassily@nd.edu 
N D WOMEN's TENNIS 

Irish fall to N.o. 3 Northwestern in Evanston 
boasted a singles title to her all-important doubles point with
Moral battles won in 

name after winning the ITA All­wins at Nos. 1 and 3. In one of close matches against American Championships. the most fiercely-contested Ranked as high as No. 1 this sea­matches of the meet, No. 1 top ranked opponent son in singles, Cohen entered Christelle Grier and Cohen best­Thursday's contest with a record ed No. 4 Catrina and Christian of 39-4 with each of her defeats Thompson, 8-4. The crucial
By ANN LOUGHERY resulting from three-set matches. make-or-break match at No. 3

Sports Writer 

"Cohen is a player who doesn't resulted in a heartbreaking 9-7 make many errors; she has one victory for Valerie Vladea and Thursday's match against No. of the best forehands in the Feriel Esseghir over Sarah Jane 3 Northwestern was recorded as country,". Louderback said. "It Connelly and junior Kiki Stastny a 5-2 loss for No. 26 Notre Dame. took a lot of patience for Catrina to guarantee the Wildcats.the 
But the Irish (12-9) counted it to win. She runs into trouble doubles point. as a moral victory, walking off when she doesn't play patiently The Irish were just as tena­the courts with their heads high because she goes for the end cious in the singles portion of the after proving they were more points too quickly. But she played meet, forcing many of their than capable of challenging some patiently and it paid off for her." matches into third sets. Sarah of the nation's top competitors. With the victory, Thompson Jane Connelly prevailed over 
"It was a lot closer than it improved to 10-8 versus nation­Alexis Conill, 7-6, 6-3, at No. 6 to seemed," sophomore Christian ally ranked opponents and 20-8 record an additional win for Thompson said. "We've had a lot overall. Before Cohen, Notre Dame. With the victory, of close meets with other top Thompson's highest-ranked Connelly improved her record to teams like Northwestern all year. career win was over North 14-8 on the season and 5-5 in Just a couple of points made the Carolina's No. 26 Aniela Mojzis in dual meets. But her efforts were difference." February. not enough to overcome the 
No. 37 Catrina Thompson led Freshman Brook Buck and jun­Wildcats, who had notched quick the efl'ort with an upset of No. 3 ior Lauren Connelly also staged victories to build an early lead. Audra Cohen. Coach Jay an upset, winning the tiebreaker Vladea logged the first win for Louderback said Thompson's vic­to defeat No. 36 Alexis Prousis Northwestern, besting Laur.en tory was the highlight of the and Kristi Roemer, 8-7 at. No. 2. Connelly, 6,0, 6-0, at No. 4 and meet. This was the second time in less No. 66 Prousis followed up with a 
"I think [Catrina's] win showed than a week that the duo had 6-1, 6-1 win over Christian name, are the only conference "The schedule we play is very us that we can win against any­claimed a win over a ranked Thompson at No. 3. school in the national rankings tough so our kids are used to one at No. 1 singles; we have the opponent after beating No. 48 Buck fell to No. 16 Grier, 6-3, and are expected to take the top playing at a high level. They're talent to keep up with anyone," Megan Muth and Amy Wei of 7-6 (5), at No. 2, and Stastny seed. Louderback said this week­used to being ready to playing Louderback said. William and Mary last Saturday. dropped her match to. Andrea end offered the Irish a chance to tough teams with every meet. I 
The sophomore became the With the win, Connelly and Buck Yung, 6-4, 4-6, 1-0 (8), at No. 5. condition themselves for the think playing at that level will first collegiate player to beat improved their record to 25-10 Notre Dame will next take the tough competition they expect to really help them with the Big Cohen in straight sets with the 6-on the season and 14-7 in dual courts on April 22, competing in face in the postseason. East and the NCAAs." 2, 6-2 victory at No.1. Cohen had action. But despite Connelly and the Big East Conference "Our kids have had close begun her collegiate career with Buck's impressive victory, Championship. The Irish, who matches against a lot of teams Contact.Ann Loughery at 23 consecutive victories and Northwestern (18-2) claimed the have five championships to their this season," Louderback said. alougher@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Roommate to share rent for my 2bdrm apt. 
570-814-2716 
or email: mmurph21 @nd.edu 
RECEPTIONIST/PHOTO ASST 
Busy photo studio looking for a motivated, detail oriented reception­ist/photo asst. Computer, phone, customer service experiencepre­!erred. 
Please call Kelly at 259-3262. 
Seeking college student for summer child care for 14&12 yr old. 
Call1-9947 or 277-8564 and ask for Lisa. 

FoR SALE 
IRISH CROSSINGS Luxury homes one block east of 
campus. Now under construction! For more information: Go to: www.lrishCrossings.com Email:lrishCrossings@gmail.com New London Lakes Condo, walking distance to ND, 3 bedrooms, 2 baths, lake view, 
2 car garage, pool, completely remodeled $129,900 (574) 256-2198 or 
(57 4 )255-3930 
FoR RENT 
DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFTWELL MAINTAINED HOUS­ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BED­ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT 
NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006­
. 2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7­8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEB­SITEWWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER 574-234-2436 OR 574-315-5032. 
Great 6-7 bdrm home available 6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm avail­able NOW Both Close to ND,W/D,on-site parking. ND Internet Canopy access. Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 Clean homes close to ND. 2-8 bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask about FREEstudent rent program. 
Blue & Gold Homes (574)250-7653. 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 
S.B. AVE-605 ST. PETER 
CALL 532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM 
6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER MONTH + DEP. STAFF AND FAG­ULTY 
ONLY. CALL BRUCE 876-3537. 
2,4 & 5 B-Rooms,close to campus, call 234-9923, ask for Rod. 
www.andersonNDrentals.com 
5-7 BDRMS.$195/PERSON.SUM­MER OR 05/06. WASHERIDRYER.329-0308 

Furn houses on Navarre,Marion & St. Pete Sis. avail 06-07. 233-9947. 
Nice homes close to ND.Great area.AII amenities. 19237 Cleveland 6-7bdrm;202 E. 
Cripe 4bdrm;222 E.Willow 3bdrm.2773097 
Nice homes close to ND.Great area.AII amenities. 19237 Cleveland 6-7bdrm;202 E. 
Cripe 4bdrm;222 E.Willow 3bdrm.2773097 
STUDENT RENTALS $400 PER MONTH All utilities, ADT security, phone/cable/DSL, 
WID, Lawn service. 2,3,4,5 bdrms. Avaii.05/06. Call315-3215 
4-5 bdrm,2 bath house in SB. Lots of room. Call Judy 574-298-6217. 
3 blks from ND, 318 Pokagon, 3 bd, 3.5 Bath $1450,7-1-05. Email:pokagon@ hotmail.com 
2&3 bdrm houses close to ND. $350/mo/person.Lawn service & appliances incl. 
273-4889. 

5-bedroom house for rent 2005-06. Close to campus. 1 05 Marquette Ave. 232-6964. 
2 bdrm, 1 bath remodeled furnished house close to ND, $700/mo. 2844089,9-5pm; 
703-7276217 after 5~m 
PERSONALS 
You still owe me $5, Eli. 

Congratulations Chris and Joanna 
I love you, Alison 

Give back Steve's Hawaiian Shirt right now! 
Matt says that I should not use that 
OUND THE NATION 
Monday, April 18, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE 0HSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 

NBA 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic 
tll(llll rneord pnre. last I 0 GB Boston 45-35 .563 7-3 0.0 Philadelphia 41-39 .513 6-4 4.0 New Jersey 40-40 .500 8-2 5.0 Toronto 32-48 .400 3-7 13.0 New York 32-48 .400 3-7 13.0 
Eastern Conference, Central 
(PillII record pnn:. last. I0 GB Detroit 53-27 .663 10-0 0.0 Chicago 46-34 .575 7-3 7.0 Indiana 43-37 .538 7-3 10.0 Cleveland 40-40 .500 3-7 13.0 Milwaukee 30-50 .375 3-7 23.0 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Inam rm:ord pPrc. last 10 GB Miami 57-23 .713 4-6 0.0 Washington 45-35. .563 5-5 12.0 Orlando 35-45 .438 2-8 22.0 Charlotte 17-63 .213 2-8 40.0 Atlanta 13-67 .163 2·8 44.0 
Western Conference, Northwest 
ltmm rncord pNt:. last JO GB Seattle 52·28 .650 3·7 0.0 Denver 48-32 .600 9·1 4.0 Minnesota 43·38 .525 6·4 10.0 Portland 26·54 .325 2·8 26.0 Utah 25·55 .313 3·7 27.0 
Western Conference, Pacific 
tPaIll fi'I'Ord pPrc . last 10 GB Phoenix 61-19 .763 8-2 0.0 Sacramento 49-31 .613 6-4 12.0 LA. Clippers 36-44 .450 4-6 25.0 L.A. Lakers 34-46 .425 1-9 27.0 Golden State 32-48 .400 7-3 29.0 
Western Conference, Southwest 
tnam rocord pPn:. last 10 GB San Antonio 59-21 .738 7·3 0.0 Dallas 56-24 .700 9-1 3.0 Houston 49-31 .613 7-3 10.0 Memphis 44-36 .550 5-5 15.0 New Orleans 18-62 .225 2-8 41.0 
College Softball Big East Conference 
tnam 
eonf. overall Seton Hall 10-2-0 24-11-0 NOTRE DAME 8-0-0 29-8·0 Syracuse 8·2·0 23-13·0 Connecticut 4-1·0 14·22·0 Pittsburgh 4-4-0 17-21-0 Providence 4-6·0 26-13-0 St. John's 4·6·0 17-24·1 Villanova 4-6·0 29·19·0 Boston College 3-5·0 15·11·0 Rutgers 1-9·0 3-33-0 
College Baseball Big East Conference 
tt~ll!ll  coni'.  overall  
St. John's  "·0  23-10-0  
Boston Cotleqr  .,.,, ·0  23·11-0  
NOTRE DAM~  "­ -1  20·15·0  
Rutgers  7-a-0  19·14·0  
Villanova  i-6-0  21-10·1  
Pittsburgh  5-8-0  19-14-0  
West Virginia  5·8·0  16·21·0  
Connecticut  4·7·0  20·14·0  
Georgetown  4·9·0  19-19·0  
Seton Hall  4·9·0  10-22·0  

around the dial 
MLB 

Marlins at Nationals, 6 p.m., ESPN Cubs at Reds, 6:10p.m., Comcast Braves at Astros, 7 p.m., TBS 
TRACK 


One young girl ynlled, "Ge scandal. She made the the mod four previous Marion," -to no avail -U.S. team in only two times, with a best tinw of WALNUT, Cali!'. as .Jonos turned for home. events -the long jump 49.59 in 2000. She ran the Marion .Jones has a long Jones and her boyfriend, and 400 relay -and 200 at the meet last year, way to go to resurrect her sprinter Tim Montgomery, failed to win a medal in her first outdoor race once sparkling track wero quick leaving the Athens. since giving birth, and lin­career. stadium after her race, .Jones' lackluster per­ished fourth with a tinw of 
Jones fadnd badly down however. Neither would formances may have been 23.02. 
·the stretch and finished a speak with reporters. affected because she Kevin Young, 11JIJ2 distant last in the 400 Although her specialties missed training the previ­Olympic champion and meters Sunday at tho are tho sprints and long ous year, taking time off to former world-record hold­Mount San Antonio jump, Jones often has give birth to her son by er in tho 400 hurdles, College Helays, her first used the 400 at the Mount Montgomery. watched as .Jones labored meet sincn her disastrous SAC Helays as her season­Jones, who has never toward the finish linn in performance in tho opening race. tested positive for drugs the 400. Athens Olympics. She fin­The track sensation of and repeatedly has denim! ''I'm a Marion .Jones fan. ished in 55.03 seconds in the 2000 Sydney Olympics using any, has filed a $25 If shn nlwatnd, shn nends the raee, which Novlmw with three gold medals million defamation suit to stop and work hard and Williams won in 51.49. and two bronzes, Jones against the head of tlw get baek to wjwre shn Jones drew loud cheers had a disappointing -Bay Area Laboratory Co­was. Only slw knows for from the sparse erowd of and trying -year in Operative. sun\" Young said. some fi,OOO in tho 15,000-2004. She looked slow and "I wish slw eould com­seat Mount SAC stadium She came under the tired in tho 400 at Mount pote at the lovol she was when shn was introduced. cloud of sport's steroids SAC. She won the event at to prove slw was dean." 
Associated Press 
IN BRIEF 

Clarke blows big lead at Andradn(6S). a month after lw injurPd his right MCI Heritage Tournament "It's obviously a great honor," shouldt~r so sevnrnly that both lw IIILTON III•:AD ISLAND, S.C. -Lonard said. "It's something I'll and the team fmtn~d his snason was 
Darren Clarke handed Australian never forgot." over. Peter Lonard his lirst PG;\ Tour titln On the 1Sth, Clarko eventually O'Nnal scored I fl points in the Sunday, collapsing with a startling trudged baek to the fairway to finish Pacers' S4-SO loss to tlw Miami IIPat.. run of bogeys and double bogeys in oiT his double bogey while Lonard, lie shot 4-for-1 5 from tlw field, and the linal round of the MCI lleritage. safely on the green in two, chomped playt•d 2:~ minutes. 
Lonard, who ontornd the round a granola bar waiting out his land­"I felt rusty but I thought I was with a ono-stroke load but dropped 
mark win. strong PJHJugh to eompnte," O'N11al four shots behind Clarke after tho "Anybody got a lwnr'?" Clarkn said. "I'm at IJO pnrennt right now." lirst live holes, was tied with Clarke asked bdore taking questions. Indiana made tlw movn about an 
entering the final hole. It was hard to keep things straight hour bnforo tip-oiT Sunday. Tlw 
The drama ended quiekly, though, at Harbour Town Golf Links without Pacers cleared a roster spot by plac­with Clarke pulling his approach shot a scorecard. Lonard was down by ing guard Jamaal Tinsley on tho into the thatehy beaeh area next to four, then led by one after the eighth injurnd list with a bruisnd lnl't foot. the green en route to a double bogey. hole. llc again fell behind Clarke by "''m not worried about int11grating Fans shoutod to Clarke, Lonard, thoir two shots after a bogey on the 12th a guy who's an MVP 1~arulidatn back caddies and officials who searched hole. But three holes later, Lonard in the lirwup," said Indiana coach for the wayward shot. was ahead by a stroke and clung to Hick Carlisle. "It shouldn't be a prob­
Lonard sweated through a final­the vietory. lem." 
round 75 to finish at 7-under 277, The injury, originally diagnosed as while Clarke had four bogeys and Rusty O'Neal returns to a partial dislocation, happened three double bogeys in a 7fl that left Pacers lineup March 3 when O'Neal's right arm 
him tied for second with five-time MIAMI -All-Star forward was pulled back by Denver's llarbour Town winner Davis Love £II Jermaine O'Neal returned to the rrancisco Elson on a drive to the (71 ), Jim Furyk ((>9) and Billy Indiana Paeers on Sunday, more than basket. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, Aprill8, 2005 
MEN'S GOLF 
Irish collapse, finish last 
Notre Dame finishes 21 strokes behind Texas A&M's B team 
By KEN FOWLER Sporrs Writer 
Something went terribly wrong for the Irish this week­end. 
"I think we're just a little worn down," junior golfer Mark Baldwin said. "And our focus has shifted to the Big East Championships next week." 
It might have been fatigue. It might have been a lack of focus. Whatever it was, it crippled the team's game. 
A solid round of nine-over 297 was essentially meaningless Sunday morning, as the team entered the final 18 holes a stunning 21 shots behind the nearest competition -Texas A&M's second squad -and 42 strokes behind tournament co­leaders Oklahoma State and New Mexico. 
The Irish's fmal round proved to be Sunday's fourth best, but it left them in last place by 10 strokes and 49 shots behind champion Oklahoma State. 
Notre Dame was confident heading into the (Texas A&M) 
· Aggie Invitational, despite the presence of a strong field that included four teams in the Golfweek top 25 -No. 1 Oklahoma State, No. 5 New Mexico, No. 17 Texas and No. 21 Michigan State. 
Notre Dame coach Jim Kubinski thought the team had momentum heading down to College Station for the big tour­nament. The Irish had fmished seventh in the Augusta State Invitational, their last open tournament, beating five top-25 teams -Duke, Southern California, Michigan State, Wake Forest and Clemson -in the process. 
After that performance, Cole Isban, the Irish's top golfer, said he was sure he and his team­mates could play with "anyone in the country." 
But this time, the Irish could­n't even beat Texas A&M's "B" team, let alone the likes of Oklahoma State and New Mexico. 
. Problems were evident as soon as the Irish teed off early Saturday morning for the first of two rounds that day. 
Starting on No. 12 with the shotgun format, Isban -Notre Dame's best finisher-bogeyed the par-5. Isban followed with another bogey to fall to two­over through two holes. Junior Scott Gustafson didn't fair any better, bogeying his first three. 
Baldwin and Eric Deutsch each made par to start the round, but Baldwin bogeyed and Deutsch double-bogeyed their respective second holes. Greg Rodgers, the Irish's fifth man, triple-bogeyed his first and then struggled his way to a 17 -over 89 Saturday morning. 
Through just two holes, the Irish were 11-over par. 
The rest of the Saturday's first round followed likewise. Notre Dame made just seven birdies . en route to a 30-over 318. 
The afternoon round was slightly better to Notre Dame, as it saw the team improve its score by 14 strokes. That score stabilized the Irish's position relative to the rest of the bottom of the field, but it meant the team was falling farther and farther behind the tournament needed to regroup and just hope for a good showing Sunday. There was no chance of catching any of the leaders, and barely any of climbing out of last place. 
"We went out today with the goal of winning today's 18 hole event," Baldwin said. 
"We approached it as a new 18-hole tournament." 
With the new day came a team that looked nothing like the one that cotldn't stay com­petitive the day before. 
The team put a low number on the board-a 297, a score that was among the day's best. That low number came largely thanks to avoiding mistakes. 
The Irish made just 14 birdies, but also stayed away from big numbers. The team only carded two double-bogeys all day. 
"It was certainly a lot better," Baldwin said. 
Cole Isban shot a second con­secutive even-par 72 to lead the team. He finished seventeenth individually, with a 54-hole 221 (77-72-72). 
Scott Gustafson made four birdies en route to a 1-over 73 that included a 1-under 35 for the front nine. He tied for 51 with a 231 (82-76-73). 
The Irish return to action this weekend, hosting the Big East Championships at the Warren Golf Course Saturday and Sunday. 
After this week, Notre Dame will need a solid performance or even a win there to qualify for the NCAA Midwest Regionals, which the team is also hosting. 
"We're not looking at this tournament as defining our 
leaders. Contact Ken Fowler at At nightfall, Notre Dame kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 

Belles take second at IWU's Spring Fling 
By ANNE FRICANO Sports Writer 

A strong showing this weekend was not enough for Saint Mary's to beat rival DePauw University, but the Belles earned a respectable finish at the Spring Fling, hosted by Illinois Wesleyan. The golf team came in second place in Bloomington with a final team score of 615 after the two-day event. DePauw, the only team to place ahead of Saint Mary's, finished· with a score of 601. 
Scores after the first round of golf were especially close this weekend with Saint Mary's tied for second place with Wisconsin­Eau Claire, and ·only one stroke behind the Tigers. Three golfers for the Belles brought in scores in the seventies on the par 72 course to help earn the team a 305 on the day. 
Senior Julia Adams had the low score of the day with a 73, while senior Stefanie Simmerman and junior Megan Mattia brought in a 75 and 77, respectively. The lower scores were exactly what the Belles have been working for all spring, and the team was pleased with the amount of people that were able to pull through. 
Simmerman was especially happy that the team had the chance to play a course that would give the opportunity to bring in some lower scores. 
"We've played that golf course enough to know the course man­agement and where we need to be on that course ... it was com­patible with shooting low scores," Simmerman said. 
Saturday proved to be just as good of a day for golf, as consis­tently good scores were again brought in across the board. Two women, Maggie Loney of Eau Claire and Sarah Gates of DePauw finished under par on the day, with scores of 70 and 71. 
Five golfers finishing with scores in the low to mid-70's helped DePauw to pull away from the competition, finishing 14 strokes ahead at the end of the day. But Saint Mary's was able to maintain consistency with their scores, with three girls again shooting in the 70s. Individually, Simmerman fin­ished third in the event shooting just one over par on Saturday. Adams and Mattia also had top­10 finishes, coming in at sixth and ninth. 
The one disappointment for the Belles came in the fact that they were not able to beat DePauw in what was their last chance before the NCAA Championships, something that they have wanted to do all sea­son. The Tigers will be playing in a conference tournament next weekend so Saint Mary's will not have another opportunity to compete with them. 
The Belles were pleased with their performance on Saturday, and were happy to get to know a little better what they need to work on in the next few weeks. The team as a whole wants to be able to take better advantage of birdie opportunities. 
The team will have another chance to compete next weekend at the Baldwin-Wallace University Yellowjacket Invite. 
Contact Anne Fricano at 
africaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
Downing's late goal steals game for Fairfield 
final period was not enough. 
Karwick nets hat trick 
The Irish could not finish off 
in heartbreaking defeat the game, as the Stags began a comeback that would inevitably lead to Fairfield taking the lead 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
11-10 with 4:59 remaining in 
Sports Writer 
the contest. 
Notre Dame tied the game on The Irish will be thinking Matt Karweck's third goal of the about this one for a long time. game with 2:17 left, but 
Notre Dame (6-4, 2-2) Downing found the back of the dropped its third game in four net to finish the game. chances, losing 12-11 to league­To say that Irish coach Kevin opponent Fairfield (9-2, 2-0) Corrigan was disappointed fol­Sunday. The Irish were 5-1 after lowing the game would be an their March 28 victory over understatement. Villanova but have struggled in "We didn't make any plays. the last month, dropping them We had opportunities to score, out of post-season contention. we didn't score," Corrigan said. 
The loss was a heart breaker "We turned the ball over too for the Irish, not only because it much. On the defensive end, we eliminated them from post-sea­didn't get the saves we needed son play but because the Irish and at the end of the day we led for most of the game and gave up a great opp9rtunity." then lost on a goal by midfielder Not only was the coach upset Greg Downing with 2.9 seconds about his team's loss Sunday, he in the country played at," added a score and two assists. Ohio State on April 29. left. was at a loss for the way his Corrigan said. "Nine out of ten While Corrigan expressed dis­"Right now, I'm not prepared 
Notre Dame was up 4-3 at the team performed in the final years we went to NCAA tourna­appointment, he took responsi­to say how we're going to half and then jumped out to an month of the season. ment, we consistently over­bility for his team's troubles and [respond to the loss]," Corrigan 8-4 lead on four unanswered "We are underachieving right achieved, and now we cant put the blame squarely on his said. "In all honesty, we haven't goals in the third period. now, and I'm tremendously dis­seem to find a way to play with shoulders. played with enough passion, we 
When Fairfield finally appointed in that."· passion everyday and to get "If I'm not getting that out of haven't played with enough dis­responded on a Matt Castele Corrigan also spoke about things done when we need to the guys then somebody needs cipline, we haven't played with score, Notre Dame countered where the program has been in get them done." to but we are just not getting it enough sense of what we are with a Jim Morrison goal at the past and how upsetting it is Karwick continued his success done right now," Corrigan said. trying to accomplish and how to 
1:21 in the third period. to how the current team fin­this season with three goals and Notre Dame still has to find a do it." 
But typical of Notre Dame's ished its season. an assist in the loss. Morrison way to respond from the loss, inconsistent play of late, the "Five years ago, our program also had four points (two goals finishing their season against Contact Bobby Griffin at four-goal lead going into the J?layed at a level few programs and two assists) and Matt Ryan defending league champion rgriffi3@nd.edu 

----------;--------­Monday, April 18, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
-
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Georgetown juggernaut stomps Irish, 14-6 


dropped decisions to Duke and Stanford -11-8 and 6-5, respectively -the weekend before Sunday's defeat.Only three games remain on Notre Dame's 15-game sdH1duln. Afinr travnling to Baltimore, Md. next Sunday, the Irish journey to Syracusn, N.Y., April 30 to finish out eonl'nreneo play before heading homn to eondude thn snason against Ohio State May 7 at Moose Krause Stadium. 

Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 18, 2005 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish finish 8th at Ohio State Invite 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
Battling tough competition and what coach Debbie King called "the hardest course we'll play all year," the women man­aged an eighth place lini~h the Lady Buckeye Invitational at Ohio State's Scarlet Course 
Michigan State topped the 15-team field. which featured six teams ranked in last week's golfstat.com top 50, including the No. 46 ranked Irish. 
The Spartans, who came into the tournament ranked No.43 by golfstat. edged out No. 14 ranked Ohio State by nine shots. 
The Irish came into the tour­nam~nt with a combined one finish ahead of the five teams ahead of them in golfstat's rankings in the Lady 
"Western Michigan and
Buckeye field. Notre Dame They failed to Iowa careered. They Invitational in improve on September.
played the best tourna­
that in finish­"We're look­
ment of their lives." 
ing eighth and ing forward to dropped to a not baving to combined 1-Debbie King hit the road 
15-1 against again and
Irish coach 

Kent State, Northwestern, Purdue, Ohio State and Michigan State. 
Strangely, coming into the Lady Buckeye, the Irish had never finished behind any of the teams in the field ranked behind them in the golfstat rankings. 
This streak came to an end, however, as seventh-place Western Michigan and Iowa, who finished a surprising third, both placed higher than Notre Dame. 
"We're disappointed," King said. "But Western Michigan and Iowa careered.They played the best tournament of their lives." 
The Scarlet Course is univer­sally regarded as one of the toughest in the nation, which King said affected the play by every team over the weekend. 
"The greens were very diffi­cult to hit, and the length of the course was pretty long," she said. "It was a good test of golf skills." 
Junior co-captain Katie Brophy led the Irish with seven-over par 223 (73-7 4-76), good enough to tie for sixth place. 
"[The Scarlet Course] is set up for a person like Katie," King said. "She hits a long and high ball, and that's what you need to do at Ohio State." 
Sophomore Noriko Nakazaki tallied the next lowest score, finishing with a 10-over par 226 (80-70-76) and placing 11th. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, their next finisher was fresh­man Jane Lee, 39 places and sixteen strokes behind Nakazaki. 
King acknowledged the gap between her top golfers and those in the next echelon. 
"A couple of [the other golfers] need some distance of the tee, so we have to work on that," she said. "Also, we con-.. tinue to work on putting." 
Lee struggled on the first day, posting a team worst 87 in the first round, but came storming back, scoring 80 and 7 5 in the last two rounds to move into third place on the team. 

Junior Suzie Hayes finished two strokes behind Lee with a 244 (83-78-83). Senior Karen Lotta (248, 83-84-81) and sophomore Stacy Brown (250, 81-80-89) finished just behind Hayes. 
Despite struggling at the Lady Buckeye, Brown retained her position at fifth in the nation in fairways hit, hitting 
89.7 percent. 
"She is a very accurate golfer," King said. "Her shots are very straight." · 
Next week the Irish return home to Warren Golf Course, where they will host the Big East Championships. The 
tournament will be their first at home since the 

MEN'S TRACK 
Squad splits for two con1petitions 
By NATE DYER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame split its squad this weekend, sending contin­gents to the Mt. San Antonio College Relays in Walnut, Calif., and to the Indy Relays at Butler University in Indianapolis. 
While the majority of the team went to the Indy Relays, distance runners Adam Currie, Sean O'Donnell, Tim Moore and Eric Morrison -and sprinters Selim Nurudeen and Dwight Ellick -took to the prestigious Mt. SAC Relays, which featured competition from all over the globe. 
"Mt. SAC is a great place for guys trying to run faster dis­tance races, especially for guys 

having home 
course advan­
tage," King 
said. 

The Irish will be the prohibi­tive favorite to capture the Big East title. 
"With Miami no longer in our conference, it looks as if our next competition will be St. John's," King said. "We're miles ahead of them, and we're probably going to try some dif­ferent goals other than just winning." 
Still, King was cautious about being overconfident. "You don't ever want to say never," she said. 
The Big East Championship will begin at 8:30 a.m. Saturday and continue with final round action Sunday. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

MISHAWAKA. IN. 
258.9999 
327 Union Street, Mlshowako 
N• 

running the 5K," said senior Eric Morrison, who found him­self in one of the fastest races of the weekend. 
The reason for sending the smaller contingent to California was for some of the faster run­ners to face more elite competi­tion to push themselves to achieve faster times. Senior Sean O'Donnell and junior Tim Moore were able to push them­selves past the NCAA regional qualifying mark, with times of 14 minutes, 12.23 seconds and 14:15.06, respectively. Sprinters Nurudeen and Ellick competed in multiple events, running both Saturday and Sunday against some of the top competition in the world. 
At the Indy Relays, the Irish competitors continued their quest for Big East and NCAA qualifying times. A pair of run­ners, senior AJ Andrassy and sophomore Dan Driscoll each performed well enough to quali­fy for the Big East champi­onships in their first race of the season. Competing in the stee­plechase, Andrassy easily out­ran the Big East standard, by an unofficial time of nearly 15 seconds. 
The Irish will again split its squad next weekend, sending contingents to West Lafayette, Ind., for the Indiana Intercollegiate; Ypsilanti, Mich., for the Eastnrn Michigan Invitational and Champaign, Ill., for the Central Collegiatn. 
Contact Nate Dyer at ndyer@nd.edu 

Graduation Weekend: Your seat is reserved. 
Since your parents picked up your meol tab fo·r the 
post four years, say thank you with dinner-but hey, 
let them poy, that woy they will know it really is you! 
Now taking reservations for Graduation Weekend Dinners: Thursdoy, Friday ond Soturdoy from 5pm to Midnight. 
www.UnionStationMishawaka.com 
steaks • c h 0 p s • seafood 
25%0FF 
REGU RPRICE 
PACKAGES AND LOTIONS fOB $TUDENT§ WITH Y~~ID 10. 
I I I I I I I

IT'S MORE fUN IN THE DAH. 
I 
E.~p~. 4>':31}/0$

.'-:---------· -·-------·I 
Monday, April 18, 200'5 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
r=~~------------~~,.--~--------------------------------------­
GUEST ARTISTS 

ROBERT BATES ORGAN CONCERTS Sunday April 24 at 4 pm and 8 pm $10 general public, $8 faculty/staff, $6 seniors, $3 all students 
THEATRE 

ARCADIA by Tom Stoppard Tuesday April 19 at 7:30pm Wednesday April20 at 7:30pm Thursday April 21 at 7:30pm Friday April 22 at 7:30pm Saturday April 23 at 7:30pm Tickets: $12, $10 faculty/staff, $10 seniors, $8 all students 
MUSIC 

ND PERCUSSION ENSEMBLE Wednesday April 20 at 7:30pm Free and open to the public; tickets required 
NOTRE DAME SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA Friday April 22 at 8 pm Tickets: $6, $5 faculty/staff, $3 all students 
ND UNIVERSITY BAND AND BRASS ENSEMBLE Sunday April 24 at 3 pm Free and open to the public; tickets required 
THE NOTRE DAME JAZZ BANDS Sunday April 24 at 7:30 pm Free and open to the public; tickets required 
ND SYMPHONIC BAND AND SYMPHONIC WINDS Monday April 25 at 7:30pm Free and open to the public; tickets required 
THE NOTRE DAME CHORALE AND CHAMBER ORCHESTRA Friday April 29 at 8 pm Free and open to the public; tickets required 
FILM 

BROWNING CINEMA Tickets $6, $5 faculty/staff, $4 seniors, $3 all students 
BORN INTO BROTHELS Thursday April 21 at 7 and 1 0 pm 
THE SEA INSIDE Thursday April 28 at 7 pm and 10 pm Friday April 29 at 7 pm and 1 0 p 
MODERN TIMES Special Outdoor Screening in the Quad Saturday April 30 at 9 pm Rain site: Browning Cinema 
DANCE 

THE SLEEPING BEAUTY Presented by Southold Dance Theater Tickets: $25, $19 seniors, $12 all students Friday April 29 at 7:30pm Saturday April 30 at 2 and 7:30 pm 
SPECIAL EVENT 
GO RED FOR WOMEN An Evening of Fun and Heart Education Tuesday May 3 from 5-8 pm Tickets: $25 

page 20 Monday, April 18, 2005 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
Batteast 
continued from page 24 
feel that she is someone who brings size and strength and a physical presence to our team, as well." 
Batteast will join an already Big East-dominated team, with for­mer Boston College standout Amber Jacobs and former West Virginia standout Kate Bulger. Former Connecticut Huskies Svetlana Abrosimova and Tamika Williams also play for the Lynx. 
Batteast was the second selec­tion by the Lynx, who chose UC­Santa Barbara's Kristen Mann with the No. 11 pick. Mann and Batteast faced off in the first round of this year's NCAA Tournament in Fresno. Calif., a game the Irish won 61-51. 
McConnell Serio said she was unsure why Batteast fell to the second round. 
"I think a lot of times what hap­pens is, she was not at the pre­draft camp in New York this past weekend and didn't go very far into the tournament, so maybe a lDt of coaches hadn't seen her enough," McConnell Serio said. "She was the Big East Player of the Year and they were on TV, so she was someone who we were very familiar with." 
Batteast averaged 16.9 points and 6.6 rebounds per game this season, while earning third team Associated Press All-American honors as well as Kodak All­American honors. The senior was the second Big East player taken in the draft, one pick behind West Virginia's Yolanda Paige, who was chosen by the Indianapolis Fever. 
Batteast, who was a swing play­
er for Notre Dame this season, 
should see the same role next 
season according to her new 
coach. 
"Jacqueline Batteast we look at 
as a '3,"' McConnell Serio said. 
"And something that we haven't 
had is a post-up '3,' someone that 
we can really put on the block 
and be able to go to them inside 
and create mismatches." 
Batteast will report to Chicago 
on Thursday for rookie orienta­
tion sessions and will head to 
Minneapolis on Sunday for the 
start of training camp. The Lynx, 
who fmished 18-16 last year, tip 
off the regular season May 22, 
and their first exhibition is set for 
Mayl. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Eighteen 
continued from page 24 
ing a solo home run in the second inning. The freshman finished the weekend with three HBis, all three scoring game-winning runs. 
"She's a gamer," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "She came through big for us again and again this week­end. She always came up with big hits at big times." 
Steffany Stenglein was nearly unhittable on the mound for the Irish. She set a personal best against Providence in game one, striking out 15 batters and coming within three outs of throwing a no-hitter. The senior nearly matched that performance the next day, striking out 14 batters in Notre Dame's 2-0 win over Connecticut. 
"She's finally starting to slapping an RBI triple to realize just how good she is," score Mallorie Lenn and Gumpf said. "Now that she Brown then following with a realizes her talent, she's single to score Schoonaert. expecting to do good every . The Irish fell apart in the time she goes out there." fourth inning, as Providence 
Against  scored  four  
Providence  on  runs to take the  
Saturday,  "Right now we're just  lead. Laing and  
Stenglein had to be nearly perfect be­ doing enough to win, but our girls know  Ruthrauff's heroics helped the team come  
cause the Irish  that's not enough."  back,  and  
could  only  Stenglein closed  
score one run for the senior hurler. Steph­ Deanna Gumpf Irish coach  the game out to keep Notre Dame's winning  
anie  Brown  streak alive.  

scored the lone RBI in the "Right now we're doing just game in the third inning, hit­enough to win, but our girls ting a sacrifice fly to score know that's just not good Sarah Smith from third base. enough," Gumpf said. "We've 
In game two, the Irish got the Big East tournament scored its first run without coming up in a few weeks an RBI, as Kellie Middleton and we have to play even bet­stole home during a double ter." steal. Notre Dame added two Sunday in game one, Notre more runs in the second Dame took a 1-0 lead in the inning, with Sara Schoonaert second off Laing's home run, 
The UPS Store 
Where you
"May Move Out '05" NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 
live can make 
10am-5pm 

you more popular 

· and closed out the scoring with a two-out HBI single by Middleton in the third inning. In game two, Megan Ciolli knocked home an RBI double to score Brown in the first inning, and Carissa Jaquish had an RBI double of her own in the fourth inning to score Laing from second base. Connecticut came back with runs in the fourth and sev­enth innings to tie the game. Christine Keeton scored the tying run with a two-out RBI single. But Laing gave the Irish the lead again in the eighth inning, and pitcher Heather Booth closed out the bottom of the inning for the complete game victory. Notre Dame travels to DePaul for a doubleheader Tuesday, then returns home to face Akron in a two-game series Thursday. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


*Walk to Campus 
LYONS BASKETBALL COURTS 
*Hook up with friends, just blocks 
WednesdayI May 4 -SaturdayI May 7 
from your favorite night spots *Bronze yourself at our pool *Remodeled Apartments *Lease with 42" plasma included 
Bring this ad in to receive 
$500 off 
your 1st month's rent *Expires 4/30/05 Restrictions apply 
Toll Free 1-866-395-4201 www.aimco.com 1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 
#1 Hot Spot at ND 
Sea ofGREEN!  Sea of GREEN!  
\Vear green to support the Irish!  r~.  Wear green to support the Irish!  
tJcr~  ~~~  

Tickets $3 for students! Call 235-9988 

----------------~~-----­
Monday, April I 8, 2005 page 21 
The Observer • SPORTS 
turned in one of its host seasons senior dass, said that Poulin's res­"IPoulin(loves a challenge and tricks (eight). After a year of pm­ever in 2004 -collecting a 20-15-4 ignation was unexpected. it's going to be a challtmge," fessional hockey in Sweden, Poulin 
Poulin 
continued from page 24 
said in thn mlnasn. "I could not bo rnon~ nxdtnd about his transition to a vnry signilkant development rolo-most immediately as it ndatml to our plans to rnnovate tho north dome of' the .Joyce Cnntnr and all that will mean fi1r our horkny program." 
During Poulin's tonure, the Irish amassnd a I :{IJ-197-50 ( .425 win­ning JWrront.ago) rnmrd and a 99­145-41 (.41 1J) mark in CCII;\ play. Notr·n Damn advancnd to the CCII;\ Supnr Six in fi1ur of the lw;t six soasons (2000, 2002-04) and rncord and advaneing to the NCAA tournament for the first time in tlw program's 37 -year history. 
But his final soason was marked with ineonsistency as the Irish fin­ished 2004-05 with a record of 5­27-(, -the worst over in Poulin's 1 0-ynar tenure~. 
"The onus is on each ono of us and individuals and as a tmun so we're all disappointed," Irish assistant captain Mike Walsh said. "For this to happnn at the end is just kind or the crowning point Iof tho snasonl." 
Irish captain Cory McLean. who along with goalie Morgan Cey is the only member of' this year's 
"I was surprised. lie's been here 10 years," McLean said. "We've had a eouple of good years since I've bonn here so I was a little sur­prised. But one the things was that !Poulin] always wanted to leave on his own terms and he felt like this was the time to go so I wish him the best." 
The release said Poulin's new responsibilitios will include assist­ing senior assoeiatn athletic dirnc­tor Bill Scholl with a variety ol' projects, in particular working with the University to identify pos­sible donors with the goal of reno­vating Notrn Dame's existing hock­ey facility. 
McLean said. "He's been trying to do things with this rink li1r a while now. and I think he'll be a big voice because not only is he an ND alum but he's one of' the top [hock­ey] players to come out of' hem. lie's going to have a strong voice and I think he's going to get the job done." 
Poulin was a four-year player for Notre Dame, wearing the Irish uniform from 1978-82. llis 89 goals rank fifth on the all-time Notre Dame record list, his 107 assists rank him seventh and his 196 points rank him sixth. 
Poulin is also tied !'or first in game-winning goals (13) and hat was signed by the NIIL's 

Philadf1lphia Flyers. lie was a 
thmn-time NIIL all star during his 
13-year career that including 
stinL'i with the Flyers, ttw Boston 
Bruins and the Washington ·Capitals. 
Poulin returned to his alma 

mater in 1995, and is socond on 
the all-time wins list. trailing only 
Charles "Lefty" Smith, who is the 
all-time lnader with 307 wins. 
A'i of pmss time, thorn has been 

no announcement on Poulin's suc­
cessor. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Huskies 
continued from page 24 
ir hid to tlw NCAA tournament. With Notrn Dame's record cur­rPntly at 20-15, that appears to IH' its only path to qualifying f'or tlw sewnth nmseeutive ycmr. 
Tlw vietory in the nightcap of' Saturday's doublelwader gave MainiPI'i his SOOth <~arner win in 2:~ s<~asons. This season is Mainieri's II th with Notre l>anw. 
"I appredat<~ that you guys kePp bringing it up, but it's all about. tlw kids," hn said after Sunday's game. "I havnn't won orw ganw in my earner." 
.Jnll' Manship was expeetml to continue his road to n~eovnring f'rom February 2004 Tommy .John surgery in starting game three on t.he weekPrHI. But Manship had to leaw the game in the top of' the first after tak-
REACIIIUR 
:~.FilE SllV! 
Offering 
affordable 
flying lessons 
from SOU1h Bend 
Rtlglon•l Airport 
ing a eomebacker ofT tho middle f'inger on his right (throwing) hand. 
Mainieri said after the game Manship's finger was really bruised, would get X-raynd and he was hoping for the best. 
. Jell'Sarnardzija (5-0) carne out of the Irish bullpen and contin­ued the weekend trend of' solid pitching. Tho sophomore threw (, 1/3 innings, allowing four runs (three earned) and leaving the game with an H-4 lead. 
The Irish tied the game in the f'ourth on home runs from Matt Edwards and Cody Hizzo. The Huskies carne back in tho fifth with a single run, to go ahead 4­3. 
Then in the seventh the Irish rallied !'or f'ive runs, all came with two outs, a common theme on the weekend as the Irish hit .412 with two outs. The key play in the inning came when Alex Nettey sent a grounder to sec­ond, but Huskies second basn­rnan Austin Wasserman couldn't make the play, giving the Irish an extra out in tho inning. 
The Irish took f'ull advantage, scoring four unearned runs with Craig Cooper's single past third base scoring two runs and push­ing the Irish load to !'our runs. 
Once again, Connecticut came back in the top of eighth, scor­ing thrne runs ofT Dnrik Olvey. 
Faeed with tho tying run on third and the go-ahead run on first. Mainieri went to closer Hyan Doherty with two outs. Doherty eame in and got Pat Mahoney to ground out before retiring the side in order in the ninth to pick up his fifth save on the season. 
Dan Kapala (2-1) kept the Irish in the opening game against Connecticut ·in the 3-2 eight-inning win. In his second career start, the sophomore allowed six hits and walked only one. 
After Connecticut scored a run in the top of the eighth. the first game or Big East doubleheaders are only scheduled for seven innings, Matt Bransfield led off' the bottom of tho eighth with a pinch-hit single. Boss Brozovsky sacrificed Bransfield to seeond. 
Then Greg Lopez singled to center, scoring Bransfield and Lopez advanced to second on the throw horne. Sean Gaston followed with a single, sending Lopez to third. Alex Nettey sent a 3-2 piteh to right field, which brought home Lopez for the winning run. 
Tom Thornton (4-4) continued his dominating pitching with his second straight nine-inning complete game in the 7-1 win. That's tlw first time a Notre Dame pitcher has done that since All-American Aaron Heilman completed the feat in 
20()1, 

Tho Irish took an early 1-0 lead when Hizzo doubled in the second, moved to third on a sac-

Irish first baseman Matt Edwards snags a throw to force out ­Connecticut's Josh Farkes. 
rif'ice bunt by Brezovsky and ing none and striking out four. scored on a groundout by Lopez. The completo gamns by both 
In the fifth, the Irish gave Notn) Dame starting pitchers in Thronton more than enough a Big East doubleheader hap­runs, scoring four in the frame pened for the first time since all with two outs. Edwards, Heilman and Danny Tamayo did Cooper and Tony Langford it on April 28, 2001. drove home runs for the Irish. 
Thornton pitched all nine Contact Matt Lozar at innings, yielding six hits, walk-mlozar@nd.edu 
We've ttoved 
-to Serve you Better! 
N~ 

8 
.. 
Your Saint Mary's Banking Center has moved and is now open tor business in the new Srudent Ct•nter, otlering you the convenience ofa full-service bank right on campus. Our location may have changed but our staff is the same ­friendly. knowledgeable, and ready to provide you with the personal service you've come to expect trorn Ist Sourn.·. 
Stop by our new location f(Jr the (';rand Opening 
Celebration on April 21st and he sure to enter our prize drawing. We look forward to seeing you there. 
Winnl:'rs selected by mndom 1irav.mg on 04/21 i05. Nn purchilse neces$ary to emec Neea not be Ofesent town Must be 18 years of age or older to enter Emploo,.ees ol 1st Source COrpor~uon. rt!> ~bsl(ll&res and therr rmrr.ed•ate fam11ies are not elig,Oll:' 
hours M-F • 10-5 

-

~ BIUHy 'lftu<4 q.~rl/t Thursday 4/21 ....apAii,f6-apAii,:l.Jt. 
carnival 3pm south quad and west quad comedian jim gaffigan 8pm legends best of acoustiCafe 1Opm legends sub movie finding neverland 1Opm DeBartolo 101 
Friday4/22 
recess noon west quad trees unveiling of ~~the shirt" noon hammes notre dame bookstore battle of the bands 6pm legends sub movie finding neverland 8pm and 10:30pm DeBartolo 101 
Saturday 4/23 
AnTostal concert 9pm legends sub movie finding neverland 4:30pm and 7pm DeBartolo 101 
Sunday4j24 
cubs trip (tickets sold out) 
ali~ aM ~c-$3 

-
Saturday 4/16 

fis.her regatta 11 am holy cross hill howard duck hunt 5pm Coleman-Morse knott on the knoll 4pm sub movie oceans 12 4:30pm 7pm DeBartolo 101 
Sunday4/17 

free laundry 11 am-6pm IaFortune laundry center closing mass for father malloy 9pm joyce center followed by celebration 1 0:30pm 
Monday4/18 

panera delivery to classes tye-dye t-shirt 11 :30am east south quad speaker ken jennings 7:30pm DeBartolo 101 
Tuesday 4/19 

panera delivery to classes big wheel racing 11 :OOam north entrance dbrt quarter dog eating contest 12am IaFortune 
Wednesday 4/20 

big red chair & mini golf 2pm east south quad 
punt pass & kick qualifying contest 2pm fieldhouse mall 
~to.lfOU lu; the~~~!
late night grille 8pm north quad drive-in movie billy madison 9pm north quad 
~.d.ed,u
:­

Complete this crossword to win a free portable dvd player! 
you may submit up to 3 completed puzzles to 203 LaFortune by Wednesday at 5:00pm/ your submissions will be entered into a raffle to win a portable dvd player given away at the 
*nd students only 
.,. 


Across 
B~ 'lfGWJ, q.~ 
2. Over 2,000 of these are cleaned by Building Services every day on campus. 
4. No shirt, no shoes, no_, no problem. 
9. Eye candy in anTostal drive-in movie Billy Madison. 
11. Asian capital city where anTostal speaker Ken Jennings spent the majority of his childhood. 
Down 

1. Coolest week of the year. 
3. This year Malloy, next year ____ 
5. 
ND President Emeritus, holds world record for most honorary degrees. 

6. 
Get your ships ready, the Fisher is coming up soon. 

7. 
THe first ND football game was played against the 


--
University of ___ 8. Students go here for concerts, comedians, good food, and more. 
10. Largest dorm on campus. 
Monday, April 18, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT 
OUR VENDOR'S REP SAYS THEY CAN'T DELIVER THE PARTS FOR THREE MONTHS. 
PEANUTS 
SHE WANTS TO KNOW IF THERE 
ARE AN'1' 
QVE5TION5 I HAVE AMUFFIN kERE FOR M'< LUNCH ..YOU DON'T 

~APPEN TO !-lAVE AN'1' 
GRAPE JELL'< IN YOUR DE5K, DO YOU, MA'AM? 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I'D SAY YOU'RE NOT EX­ACTLY 
BUYING FROM US NOW. 
\ . 

CHARLES SCHULZ 
MAY6E SHE LIKES EASIER QUESTIONS 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
SOKYM 
j
I I r 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Jnc.
i;¥fl 
IMEEDUR j 
THI5 WA5
rJ r 
BREWING AT THE:
www JUmble.com 
BE:E:R MAKE:!<.
IBELMAM t 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I rJ J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Print ~here: "[ I I I I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday' I Jumbles: MOURN CYNIC TREATY RENDER 
s Answer: What the bass fiddler found tough to do­
CARRY ATUNE 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS I>AY: Vic10ria Beckham, 31: Jcnni!Cr Garner, 33: 
Liz Phair, 38; Olivia Hussey, 54 

Happy Uirthday: You have an obligation to yourself to follnw through with ynur plans. Stop talking ahout what you want to do and start to take action. You have to stop relying on everyone else to make it happen and start to do ynur own legwork. Don't let these trials and tribulations stand in your way. Your numbers arc 2, 21, 23. 27,36,40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Pick and choose what you want to do today. Love or 
socializing will bring you the most satisfaction. A creative idea you have could !urn 
into a protitahle venture if you fonn a partnership. ***** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't get upset if you don't get ynur way today. Take 
the opportunity to do something by yourself. The more you an:omplish on your own. 
the greater the fulnllmcnt will he in the end. ** 
GEMINI (May 21-.lune 20): Someone may he keeping smncthing from you, hut you 
shouldn't worry. It's probably a surprise. Short trips will hring hack memories. Call 
someone you miss from your pasl. **** 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Clear up paperwork so you can start new projects. 
Follow the urge to try doing something totally different with your life. Check out your options and what you must do to move in a new direction. *** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will he in demand today. Do lhings you enjoy and you 
will attract some interesting new friends. Secret love affairs will he tempting. hut spare yourself the grief. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Not everything will he laid out on the table for you. Someone is likely to he secretive ahem! what he or she is doing. By getting involved in a creative hohhy, you will open doors to a whole new circle of friends. **" LIDRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A joint venture will grab your interest. Take the time to carefully plan. A partnership looks favorable as long as you establish who is going to he responsible for what. Organization and g<xxl planning arc needed to he successful. 
**** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Be careful what you wish for and what you promise 
today. You may end up getting stuck with the short end of the stick. L<xlk out for your own interests. Now is not the time to fonn a patlnership. •• · SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will he looking for fun. excitement and adventure today. The more you do to challenge yourself, the. hettcr. Physical activity should he high on your to-do list. Love is in a high cycle. ••••• CAPRICORN (Dec•.22-Jan. 19): Do something to make your living <JUartcrs or arrangements more suitable to your needs. If you have felt cramped or uncomfortahle, it may he time to make a move. Devote some time to the ones you love. **" 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Do things with people who have similar interests, and you will develop strong and lasting friendships. Ask for assistance and favors will be granted. Take care of your pctsonal obligations. "** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Check out a sports facility or a group that will help you get or stay in shape. By being active, you will not only meet new people hut a job opportunity may arise as well. Get moving in a positive direction. •** 
Birthday Baby: You arc bright, hold and ready to take on whatever comes your way. ­You have a huilt-in sense of where you want to he and what you want to do. You arc dctennined to do things your own way and can be stuhhom when l(lced with opposition. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun. euRenialast.com for confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Look at, as stars 5 Artist's suffix 
with land or sea 1 o Tortoiselike 14" Around" 
( # 1 Beach Boys hit) 15 Breaking a bad one is good 16 El_, Tex. 11 _-a-brae 18 Big kitchen appliance maker 19 Eight, in Spain 20 Wife of King David 22 Prepare to pop the question 
23 Nova Scotia clock setting: Abbr. 
24 June 14 26 Hamburger meat 30 Peter who was a seven-time Oscar nominee 
32 Last full month of summer 34 Departure's opposite: Abbr. 35 Penny 39 Cheater's aid 40 Yellowish shade 42 Asian nurse 43 President before Wilson 44 Australian hopper, for short 45 Igloo dweller 47 'To be or not to be" soliloquist 50 Woman of 'Troy" 51 One taking flight 54 That, in Tijuana 56 Scent 57 "Days of Our Lives," for one 63 "The World Acc?rding to 
64 Ne plus_ 65 Slightly 66 Feminine suffix 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

67 Full ... and happy about it 68 Mideast's Strip 69 Active one 70 Cursed 
71 School before middle school: Abbr. 
DOWN 1 Any of the Bee 
Gees 2 Taj Mahal site 3 Tim91 in 
Mannheim 4 Work on glass, say 5 Former Iranian 
leaders 6 Awoke 7 Basic rhyme 
scheme 8 "H.M.S. 9 Third letter after 
delta 1oLight dessert 11 Donned skates, 
e.g., with "up" 12 Actor Milo 13 Sheeplike 21 Declares 22 _ Kan (pet 
food) 25 Peter who 
played Mr. Mota 26 Agreement 27 Atmosphere 28 End-of-week cry 29 Noisy public 
speaker .31 California/ Nevada lake 33 Singer nicknamed the Velvet Fog 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

36 Oscar winner  48 Old Turkish title  59 Newspaper  
Jannings  49 Ripper  unit  
37 Partner of rank and serial  51 Ran amok  60 And others, in footnotes  
number 38 Ending with  52 Poetry Muse 53 Talent  61 Completely demolish  
tele­ 55 Ditchdigger's  62 One who raised  
41 Side dish at  tool  Cain  
KFC  58 Director  64 lnits. in Navy  
46 "Scram!"  Preminger  ship names  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name ________________________________________ _ Address ____________~----------------------­City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Monday, April 18, 2005 page 24 
HocKEY 

Poulin resigns 
Head coach steps down after 10 seasons at helm of program 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Senior Staff Writer 

Dave Poulin resigned Friday morning, stepping down after 10 seasons as head hockey coach to take on a position in athletic administration as the special assistant to the senior associate athletic director for athletic development. 
In a statement released 


Friday, Poulin thanked Notre Dame for the opportunity to lead the hockey program and looked forward to his chance to further serve the program in his new position. 
"Coaching hockey brought me to Notre Dame -and it has been tremendous for both me 


and my family," Poulin said in Poulin the release. "What stand out for me are the players I've coached and the relation­ships I've had. I'm very excited about the challenge ahead of me. I'm looking forward to being a big part of Notre Dame's future." 
Poulin declined further comment when contacted by The Observer Friday afternoon. 
Notre Dame athletic director Kevin White announced the change shortly after Poulin had completed an early morning meeting to inform the team of his resignation. 
"First and foremost, we are all very much appre­ciative of Dave's devotion to Irish hockey," White 
see POULINIpage 2 l 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Batteast drafted by Minnesota 
By HEATHER 

VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 

Senior Jacqueline Batteast said last week at the basketball ban­quet she didn't know what she would do when she had to leave South Bend for the first time. Turns out, the South Bend native won't have to go that far. The for­ward was drafted by the Minnesota Lynx Saturday in the WNBAdraft. 
-
Batteast, who was projected as a top-1 0 pick, fell to No. 17 over­all, the fourth selection of the sec­ond round, prompting her new coach to call her the "steal of the draft." 
"So we felt very fortunate to get someone with her experience, who has been a starter and a proven scorer in the NCAA, at the collegiate level, for the past four years," Lynx head coach Suzie McConnell Serio said in a press conference after the draft. "We 
see BATTEAST/page 20 

BASEBALL 

Irish sweep two gam.es 
from_ Conn. 
By MATT LOZAR Senior Staff Writer 

Win No. 801 was sweeter than No. 800 for Paul Mainieri. 
Using two complete games on Saturday and a five-run sev­enth inning rally on Sunday, Notre Dame swept Connecticut at Frank Eck Stadium in an important Big East series. 
"We won three big games and put ourselves back in the hunt," Mainieri· said. "I always talk about one game at a time, but we needed to get this sweep this weekend." 
The three-game sweep improves Notre Dame's confer­ence record to 8-4. The four losses are tied for the second fewest in the conference, with Boston College sitting at 9-4. St. John's leads the Big East with a 9-2 record while Rutgers is fourth with a 7-5 mark. 
The top four teams in the conference qualify for the Big East tournament, where the winner of that gets an automat­
see HUSKIES/page 21 
ND SOFTBALl Timely hits move win streak to 18 
Laing collects three big RBis; Stenglein strikes out 15 batters 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Senior Staff Writer 

April may be the cruelest month, but it's been just fine for the Irish.. 
Notre Dame (29-8, 8-0 Big East) maintained its perfect Big East record and improved its winning streak to 18 games as the Irish swept Providence (26-13, 4-6) and Connecticut (14-22, 4-10) in road doubleheaders this weekend. Notre Dame defeat­ed the Friars, 1-0 and 5-4, Saturday afternoon, then knocked off the Huskies, 2-0 and 3-2, Sunday. 
The Irish played several games over the weekend that came down to the team's final at bats. Against Providence in game two, Notre Dame was down 4-3 after six innings, only to have Meaghan Huthrauff and Katie Laing hit back-to-back RBI doubles with two outs to lead the Irish to the t:omeback, 5-4 victory. 
In game two against Connecticut, the Irish went ahead 2-0 early and allowed the Huskies to come back and tie the game at two runs apiece to send the game into extra innings. But Laing came through once again, slapping a double to center to score 
· Megan Ciolli. Laing scored the game-win­ning run in game one against the Huskies, as well, launch-
see EIGHTEEN/page 20 

NO WOMEN'S GOlF 
MEN'S TRACK 

SMC GOLF 
ND WOMEN'S CREW 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS
MEN'S LACROSSE 
..... 
Co) Irish finish 8th at 
Squad splits for 

Belles take 2nd at 
Fairfield 12, 

Irish easily defeat 
Northwestern 5,
z Ohio State Invite 
two meets 

IWU Spring Fling 
Notre Dame 11 

Cincinnati 
Notre Dame 2
5 
The team finished in 
Irish distance runners 

Saint Mary's finished 
A Stags goal with 2.9 

Notre Dame beat the 
The No. 26 Irish fell to
= 
c:s: the middle of a 15-team 
and sprinters traveled to 

with a 615, 14 strokes 
seconds left sent the 

Bearcats in all races and 
the No. 3 Wildcats on 
pack at the difficult 
the Mt. SAC Relays, while 

behind first place 
Irish to a heartbreaking 

took a big step toward 
the road Saturday. 
ti Scarlet Course in 
the rest of team competed 
DePauw. 

the NCAA Tournament. 
road defeat .. 
Columbus, Ohio. 
in Indianapolis. 
page 18 
page 18 

page 16 
page 16 
page 14 

page 14 
•r 



