~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Abroad students return to life at ND 
'Reverse culture shock' poses surprising issues 
as students rnakn thn transition 
By JULIE BENDER back to South Bond. 
N~w' Writ~r 
"Thoro is a maturing that goes on, and it is of'tnn dil'lkult for For NotrP J>amn studtmts who students to rnadjust to their old spnnt a snmnstnr away from culture with their new perspec­appln pin, shopping at Wal-Mart tives and tho nrnotional changes or watching tho NFL playoff's, that havn occurred while mturning from studying in a f'or­abroad," said Julia Douthwaitn, tdgn eountry can posn significant associate provost for t·hallnngns. International Studies at Notre This "rnvnrsn eulturn shoek" is Damn. "Anybody who goes 
somnthing int11rnational studies abroad will see the U.S. from a RICK FRIEDMANfl'he Observer programs at Notre Damn say To help returning abroad students cope with readjustment, thny arn awarn of' and deal with see ABROAD/page 4 Notre Dame organized a variety of transition programs. 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Campus government transition debated 
Representatives analyze proposals for moving up Aprill presidential turnover da.te 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
Nt•ws Writer 
In their first meeting of' the new semester, tho Coundl of Hnprosnntativos focused their discussion Monday on tho transition period for new student body presidents. 
Siegfried sonator James Lnil.o, a mombnr of tho Snnatn com m i tlnn review­ing thn situation, attended thn mooting and lnd discus­sion about tho nend for possible changes to the transition systnm. 
Tho current system out­lined in the Student Union Constitution calls for elec­
see COR/page 4 



NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
CAMPUS LIFE 
COUNCIL 

Metnbers discuss Flex 10 
Group considers new meal option 
By MADDIE HANNA 
News Writer 
The possibility of introdudng a "Flex 10" meal plan was the pri­mary concern at Monday's Campus Life Couneil rnnnting, which also !ward progn~ss rnporl'i from thrnt~ task forens. 
"This isn't rnally a eall to do anything speeifk right now, but a call to Food Serviens to explore and dnlvn into other options," said James Leito, Siegfriml senator and rnmnb11r of thn Committen on Hesidnnen l.ili1 that nxaminml Uw issu11. 
CurrPntly, the two meal plans olli1rmlto on-campus studPnL'i an' thl' "FI11x 14" plan, which indud11s 14 meals a wenk and 2h0 Flex Points, and t.h11 "PrPmium 21." which indudns 21 meals a WPPk and no FIPx Points. 011'-r.ampus studt•nL'i t:an build tlwir own nwal plans by purchasing block nwals and as many Flt~X Poinl.'i as tlwy dlOOSI1. 
According to Uw OdobPr 2004 Studnnt CoVPrnnwnt Dining llall lssuPs Survny. if givtm Uw rhoicP, over 50 pnrcPnt of studPnl.'i would choose a "Fl11x I0" option provid­ing I0 nwals a wnnk and addi­tional Fl<'X Poinl.'i. 
"When I was a l'rnshman. I thought the dining hall was tlw 
sec CLC/pagc 4 

Health Services, Counseling Center plan for move 
Summer reorganization not expected to affect services for students 
By KATIE LAIRD 
Nt·w' Writl't 
II P a It h SI' r vir11 s and llw CounsPiing C:11nl.nr will l'l'locate in May from t.lwir CUITPnl. loca­tion nnar I.Pwis llall to tnrnpo­l'ary housing whiln rPnovalions ocrur during tlw sumnwr. 
Tlw CounsPiing CnntPr will llwvn pPrman<'nlly to the old post o ITi t: P w h i In lin a It h SPrvic<lS will I.Pmporarily go to tlw f'ornwr Sl't'Urity building. 
Tht• rtiiTPnt t·o-nxistPncP of' liP all. h S P r vic I' s and llw CounsPling CnntPr in thn sanw building madP it Pasil'r l'or stu­dPnts to go to tlwir rPfPrrals and to maintain ronlidl'nliality. said Ann«' Klnva. htwlth snrvi<:­(lS dirPrtor. Both oflirPs will be movNl to s11paratn buildings whPn rPnovation on thn t:ur­rnnt llnallh Serviens building bngins after May. she said. 
Thn Counseling Cnntcr will be mowd to thn old post oflien building. while llnalth Serviens will temporarily rnloeate to the old Sneurity Building. 
While equipment and infor­mation are moved, llealth Snrvicns will dos11 for onn to two wonks during the sumnw1· and move back into its old building aHnr Uw renovation is com plntnd in narly August, said Klnva. 
"It is mandatory for us to rlosn down for o1w to two wnnks in ordnr to movn rncords, pharmacy.... This is Uw samn amount of tinw as at Christmas brnak," said Kleva. 
T lw s n pa r a t.i o n o f II e a It h Serviens and the Counseling Cnntor should not have a sig­nil'ieant impact on eitlwr 
department's servien to stu­dents. 
"We are separate depart­ments, we arn just housed in the same building," slw said. 
Susan Stoibo-Pasalich, clirne­tor of' the Counseling Centnr. said sho is oplimistie about thP future changes. 
The Counseling Centnr's tnmporary relocation to t.hn old post office will make the dnpartment visible and nasily aecnssibln for students rnceiv­ing trnatment, Stnibe-Pasalirh said. Bt~cause the nnw spacn will be mueh smaller than the nxisting building, only essential matmials will be movnd to the temporary enntnr. 
A potnntial problnm for the ndoeation could be that stu­dents might be seen walking 
sec MOVE/page 4 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


No going back 
I picked an innocent enough looking seat in my first Friday afternoon econom­ics tutorial-not too close to the front and not surrounded by giggly girls. 
But just before the class began, three football players sauntered in and Teresa Fralish plopped themselves down in the chairs 
Associate
right behind me. 
News Editor 
And as I began to look around the cla'ls, I discovered that to my surprise ­and slight horror-out of a 40-person section, l was surrounded by freshmen. l knew fellow seniors might be scarce in Ikon 101, but l assumed I'd find at least some other non-freshman business major filling a requirement. 
All year long, I'd harbored a secret jeal­ousy of my lit1lc freshman brother and the other freshmen l worked with as a peer advisor for First Year ofStudies. I told everyone that I would love just one more year at Notre Dame. I filled out applications while pretending I really wasn't ~rraduating in a few short months. 
But that Friday afternoon, surrounded by hordes of cookie cutter freshmen busi­ness majors -my nostalgia died right then and there. 
As the TA started cla<;s, l thought back on my college years, first remembering that su~.:h large. everyone-takes-it cla<>ses did actually exist. 
I stared as the athletes proceeded to talk through everything the TA said, once interrupting to ask why the class didn't have Powerpoints and then subsequently dedaring that it would be "really hard." l wondered why the grad student didn't tell them to shut up -until it dawned on me that he'd probably already tried and failed at that last semester. 
I cringed at the subtle racism of one athlete who, a<> one girl announced that her name was Alejandra, yelled out "Aile­what?" as if she was speaking gibberish. 
After the 1,rirl explained that she lived in Mexico, the athlete looked perplexed ­he apparently couldn't fathom that actual people came from Mexico or how one might appear at Notre Dame. 
And as a girl in back row started a loud conversation with another athlete ­apparently having missed the third grade lesson about paying attention in class -I buried my head in my desk. 
Don't get me wrong, the Oass of 2008 definitely deserves more credit than this. 
Some ofthe freshmen I've advised rank among the most intelligent and thoughtful students I've met at Notre Dame, and I'm sure even tl1ese obnoxious people will some day mature into confident seniors. 
But as I counted down the remaining minutes Friday afternoon, I realized that, for as much as I'll cry when at graduation and miss even the dining hall food and crowded dorm rooms, I wouldn't trade my closest (iiends, favorite classes, inspir­ing professors and Malibu pineapples for bad freshman roommates, Keystone Lights and underclassman naivete. 
When I sat down later that afternoon to read an essay by Immanuel Kant for my "Enlightenment and Its Revolutions" class, I said a silent prayer ofthanks for making through the past four years. 
As tempting as one more year of 'Backer Long Islands and college care­freeness might be-we've come too far to go back. When that final May day rolls around, somehow, I'll be ready to go. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, January 18, 2005 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHERE DID YOU GET YOUR BOOKS FOR THE SEMESTER? 







Tara Devine  Bridget Osetinski  Joel Steiner  Phillip Hicks  Annie Laurer  Tom Raaf  
McGlinn sophomore  McGlinn sophomore  Sarin freshman  Dillon freshman  McGlinn sophomore  offcampus senior  
"Amazon. com, halfcom and  "Overdu& books from the library  "Online from Ebay and  "The bookstore."  "Mostly from people going  "Books I need not."  

the bookstore. " and smuggled NDbay and the 
in from Hammes Taiwan. , bookstore. " 


PAMELA LOCK!The Observer 

A lone Notre Dame student surveys rows of cars covered with snow in the D-6 park­ing lot Monday afternoon. 
OFFBEAT 
went Friday to a mobile home near Bainbridge College, where a woman told police he was hiding under a mattress inside. 
Lending the depart­ment's police dog, Thomasville officers accompanied the Florida authorities inside the resi­dence. The officers searched the house thor­oughly, even checking a freezer and washing machine, said Lt. Tim Watkins of the Thomas 
County  Sheriff's  
Department.  
Information  compiled  

from the Associated Press. 

Man in Batman suit climbs onto court roof 
AMSTERDAM, Netherlands -A man in a Batman suit spent several hours on a rooftop balcony atop a courthouse in the Dutch city of Utrecht on Monday, protesting the treatment of fathers in divorce cases. 
Police initially said they planned to ignore the man, a member of the group Fathers for Justice, until he came down. 
But police spokeswoman Wendy Alberse said the man, whose name was not released, struck a deal to surrender peacefully. 
Police offered him a ladder and he climbed through a window to safety, she said. 

"He won't be charged, and he has promised not to do it again," Alberse · said. 
Florida man on lam found inside of TV 
BAINBHIDGE, Ga. -A 6-foot man allegedly on the run from Florida authorities since September was found this week curled up inside of a television. 
After receiving a tip that Alfred Blane, 45, of Ponce de Leon, Fla., might be in Decatur County, police 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
w 
::z::: 
!;;: 
w 


== .... 
ct 
(,) 

..... 0 HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH 
LOW LOW LOW LOW 






abroad." 
IN BRIEF 

HecSports will sponsor the 19th Annual Late Night Olympics fundraiser from 6 
p.m. Friday to 4 a.m. Saturday to benefit the St. Joseph County Special Olympics. 
Siegfried Hall will sponsor its Dance-a-thon from 9 a.m. to midnight Friday at the Stephan Center. 
Student groups will sponsor "And Still We Rise Hemembering is Not Enough," a town hall meeting about Martin Luther King day from 7 to 8 p.m. in the llammes Student Lounge of the Coleman-Morse Center. 
Notre Dame assistant music professor John Blacklow will present a con­cert Wednesday from 8 to 
9:15 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
Brian Shanley, associate professor of philosophy at the Catholic University of America, will give a lecture on "Aquinas' Exemplar Ethics" from 5 to 6:30 p.m. on the 7th lloor of the Hesburgh Library. A reception will follow. 
The Center for Social Concerns will sponsor a Social Concerns Festival Wednesday from 7 to 9 p.m. in the esc classroom. 
The hockey team will play Michigan Tech at the Joyce Center at 7:35p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
Atlanta 74 I 62 Boston 70 I 49 Chicago 64 I 48 Denver 65 I 42 Houston 83 I 67 Los Angeles 78 172 Minneapolis 80 162 New York 70 I 49 Philadelphia 75 I 48 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 61 I 48 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampa 88 168 Washington 75 149 
Tuesday, January 18, 2005 The Observer+ NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Group plans tsunan1i relief prograllls at SMC 
By CHELSEA IVERSEN 
Nl·ws Writer 
On Tuosday ovening, Saint Mary's Board of c;ovornaneo md for tho first Lime this somnstor to discuss College President Carol Mooney's inauguration and tsunami rnlinf efforts. 
Studont body prosidnnt 
Sarah  Catlw r inn  Whito  
praised  the  success of tlw  
inauguration.  

"J<:vnryono was impressed with Saint Mary's College," sho said. 
Whito also said tsunami ndinf oiTorls would be onn of BOG's major projects and it would be its responsibility to unite tho campus toward a signilieant donation. 
Boc; momlwrs will moot Wodnnsday to discuss ways to got tho sludnnt body involvod and motivatod about reliof oiTorts. 
Saint Mary's did not partiei­pato in tho iri-eampus tsuna­mi collection held this past wnnkond. White explained that with tho Inauguration nvonts. Saini Mary's would not have had enough time to make a sizable donation. lnstoad, motivation and unifi­cation of tho campus would load the student body to give gorwrously and collectively to 
tsunami rnliof aids, shn said. "We wanted to wait and do our own big thing," she said. 
BOG also approved a $1,000 grant for 15 students from the Communications, Theatre and Danee department to travel to Now York during Spring Break for an educa­tional trip. 
After tho trip, tho students will be required to give a presnntation, which will be open to the general campus, dnsnibing their oxperionecs and how their trip will bene­l'it or has benefited Saint Mary's. 
In other BOG news: 
+ 
Senior elass president .Jacqueline Cuisinier reported on many upcoming events for Saint Mary's seniors. A bowl­ing night will be held Feb. 6, and Senior Spirit Wonk is set for Feb. 20-26. 

+ 
BOG members encouraged studonts to nominate their fomalo professors, faculty or staff rnembors to be recog­nized at the Wonwn Honoring Women Ceremony on March 


23. Nominations are due by Feb. 24. 
+ The All School Formal will take place Fob. 5, and tickets are on sale this week. 
Contact Chelsea Iversen at CiversO1@saintmarys.edu 



More aid could eliminate poverty 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS-Global poverty can be cut in half by 201 !i and eliminated by 2025 if the world's richest countries including the United States, Japan and Germany more than double aid to the poorest countries, hundreds of devel­opment experts concluded in a report Monday. 
At stake is lifo or death for tens or millions of impover­ished people, it said. 
Tho report spells out the investments needed to meet the U.N. goals adopted by world leaders at the Millennium Summit in 2000 to tackle poverty, hunger and disease and promote educa­tion and dovelopmnnt, mainly in African and Asian coun­tries. 
"What we're proposing is a strategy of investment to help empower tho lives of very poor people that lack the tools and sometimes even the basic means to stay alive, much loss be productive membnrs of a fast-paced world neonomy," said Professor Jeffrey Saehs, head of the U.N. anti-poverty effort and lead author of the report. 
The investments range from schools, elinics, safe water and sanitation to fertilizer, roads, electricity and transport to get goods to market. 
"The system is not working right now-let's be dear," he said. "There's a tremendous imbalance of focus on the issues of war and peace, and loss on the dying and suffering of the poor who havn nQ _ voice." 
According to the rnport, one billion people livn on a dollar a day or less, many of them going to bed hungry every night; life expectancy in the poorest countrins is half that in high-income countries. And every month, for example, 150,000 African children die of malaria because they don't have bed nets to keep out mosquitos, a tragedy Sachs called the "silent tsunami." 
In 1970, the world's nations agreed to provide 0.7 percent of their gross national income for development assistance, and that figure was reaffirmed by the U.N. conference on financing development in Monterey, Mexieo, in 2002. 
So far, only five countries have met or surpassed the tar­get -Denmark, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden. Six others have made commitments to reach the tar­get by 2015 -Belgium, Finland, Franee, Ireland, Spain and Britain. 
But 11 of the 22 richest donors aceording to the Paris­based Organization for Economie Cooperation and Development are far from the target and have not set timeta­bles to reach it-ineluding the United States, Japan and Germany. 
If all 22 rich countries come up with the money, mom than 500 million people can escapn poverty and tens of millions 
can avoid certain doath in thn next decadn, tho rnport said. If the countrins kept up tho 
0.7 pnrcont level of aid-giving for anotlwr dncad11, it said, "by 202!i nxtrnrne povnrty can be substantially olirninatl'<l" for tho rmnaining !iOO million pnople surviving on a dollar a day. 
"Our gnneration for tlw tirsl time in human history rnally could son to it that. nxtrnmn poverty on the planot is endnd. not just by half bul ended by the year 2025," Saehs said. 
"We are not asking for orw nnw promise from any eountry in the world, only tlw follow­through on what has already been committed," hn stressed. 
But trying to get the Unitnd States and the othn r ridr nations to double or triple the amount of development assis­tam~e lhey give is nxpeetnd to be an uphill struggle -and the targnt or a major lobbying effort. 
The resources to meet lhe 

U.N. goals are dnlinitely within tho means of the world's 22 richest nations, Sachs said. 
"The required doubling of annual o(Tieial developmnnt assistarH~n to $135 billion in 2006, rising to $195 billion by 2015, pains bnside the wealth of high ineorne eountries ­and thn world's military budg­et of $900 billion a year," thn rnport said. 
The United States now spends only about 0.15 per­cent of its GI>P on develop­ment aid, well bnlow the 0.7 percent ligure, Sachs said. 
, 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. HOLIDAY CELEBRAr!ON TUESDAY, JANUARY 18: TOWN HALL MEETING 7:00-8:00 PM 
COLEMAN-MORSE CENTER 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 18, 2005 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
coolest thing -I could get as much chocolate milk as I want­nd -but by the time you're a senior, the dining hall kind of loses itc:; romance," student body president Adam Istvan said. 
The survey also found that over 96 percent of students choosing a meal plan select the "Flex 14" and a majority of these students use all of their Flex Pointe:; before the end of the semester. 
However, the additional meal plan option could present some complications. 
According to Leito, the "Flex 1 0" might change the financial cost of meal plans. 
"Since Food Services already counts on students eating fewer than 14 meals a week, [with "Flex 10"] the price per meal could go up or costs might be cut," Leito said. 
Istvan added that to reduce dining hall cost, the variety of food offered 

of the social concerns task force, said committee members would meet next week to collaborate research on diversity at "Top 20" and peer institutions that compare to Notre Dame. 
Bongiovanni also said that the social concerns committee has been communicating with stu­dent and faculty groups on cam­pus working towards the same goal of increasing diversity awareness. 
The social concerns commit­tee will compile data to send to the Feb. 3 Board of Trustees meeting, which will focus on issues of racial equality. 
"We spent a good deal of the first semester doing research, and this is a perfect opportunity to use it," Baron said. 
+ On the topic of campus vend­ing, Leito said Dave Prentkowski, director of Notre Dame Food Services, was impressed with the vending committee's data and planned to solicit 2000 students' opinions via email regarding laundry and venc;ling. 
"The most telling numbers are the 16 [or] 17 
might need to be reduced. "That's some­ "When I was a )Teshn1an,Ithoughtthe  schools that charge less than us," Leito  
thing  Food  dining hall was the  said. "Several  
Services will have to crunch numbers on,"  coolest thing ­I could get as much chocolate  people have told us that vending is con­ 
he said.  milk as I wanted ­ but  sidering lower­ 
Chief execu­ by the tin1e you're a  ing prices as a  
tive assistant Dave Baron  senior, the dining hall  result of this research."  
also commented  kind ofloses its  + O'Neill sen­ 
on the implica­ romance.  ator  Alex  
tions for Notre  French  said  
Dame Food Services  Adam Istvan  the security task force had  
employees.  student body president  obtained maps  

"Any change here [in the meal plan system] would affect the amount of pay given to dining hall workers," he said. 
Last week, Student Senate passed a resolution intended to promote further discussion of the plan in Food Services. 
CLC will vote on a resolution at its next meeting to send to Father Mark Poorman, vice president for student affairs. 
In other CLC news: 
+ Jordan Bongiovanni, Cavanaugh senator and co-chair 

of lighting around campus. "We can finally look into that matter better," French said. 
Additionally, French said committee members would meet with police officers from three jurisdictions to work on a ListServ informing students of campus security issues. 
A program would take place in each dorm discussing fire safety is also in the works, French said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edn 
Move 
continued from page 1 
into the Counseling Center. 
"That remains to be seen," said Steibe-Pasalich. "It is a more obvious building. If stu­dents ar~ seen ... it's obvious where they're going." 
However, she said the coun­seling center also offers numerous outreach programs and education groups for stu­dents to attend, in addition to counseling. 


Abroad 
continued from page 1 
different perspective, and it can be shocking to return home to the American way of things again." 
Due to the regular occurrence of this problem each semester, the Office of International Studies ofi'ers some ways to ease the transition for students returning home. 
"We offer debriefing luncheons where we reunite the groups of students from the various loca­tions," said Douthwaite. "This way students can touch base with one another and discuss their experiences and struggles while readjusting." 
Along with efforts to reunite students who studied in the same location together, OIS has also made efforts to help assist stu­dents in the academic realm as well. 
"We are trying to encourage faculty to design courses that will build on the cultural experiences gained by students studying abroad. This will help returning students to reflect on their time overseas, and it will also increase the internationalization of the University," said Douthwaite. 
In addition to the services pro­vided by OIS, this year the University Counseling Center has also taken steps to ease students back into Notre Dame after their international experiences. 
"Students come back [from abroad] changed," said UCC psy­

"[Students] go to the counsel­ing center for many reasons besides counseling," said Kleva. 
Steibe-Pasalich said positive attitudes toward counseling would help students overcome the obstacle or fear of being seen walking to the Counseling Center. 
"This generation is much more open to counseling. It might mean that there is not as much concern on shameful­ness.... We're anticipating that students who need us will find us," said Steibe-Pasalich. 
chologist Andrew Weis. "They go to their study abroad countries geared up and prepared for their experience with many of their cohorts, but when they return and are reintegrated in the University, they often find them­selves isolated among students who haven't studied abroad and don't understand or grasp the experience." 
In order to help students deal­ing with reverse culture shock, last semester the UCC created a support group for students to get together and discuss their con­cerns and experiences, he said. 
"UCC staff members found they had many students in their case­work who were having trouble readjusting in their return to Notre Dame, so that's where the support group idea came in," he said. 
The support began last semes­ter and aims to bring students with similar issues together. 
"Support groups differ from therapy groups because they provide more of an opportunity to share experiences with others. Students often think their culture shock experiences are unique to them, but with the support group they find they are not alone in their struggles to readjust," said Weis. 
Because readjusting is an on­going process for returning stu­dents, each person has to find a unique way to cope based on individual personalities and experiences. 
"My biggest struggle so far has been the weather," said junior Pattie Mackin, who just returned from Perth, Australia. "A few 
The move will be accompa­nied by marketing and publici­ty and support from profes­sors, faculty and staff mem­bers, who often refer patients, said Steibe-Pasalich. 
The new Health Services building will have up-to-date furnishings and equipment, including capabilities to handle the newest technology, Kleva said. The staff will be working with various committees to plan the move. 
Contact Katie Laird at klaird@nd.edu 

weeks ago I was in the southern hemisphere, and now I'm in the snow and cold of South Bend." 
For junior Meghan Winger another struggle has been the difference in class workload. 
"I studied in Fremantle, Australia where we only had one class a week. It's hard getting used to Notre Dame again after having so much time to do work while abroad." 
Beth Wernet, who studied in London last semester, agreed. 
"The workload and classes where I studied in London are different from Notre Dame, so that's been a change. For me though, the biggest thing has been being back on campus again," she said. "Notre Dame seems the same, but a lot is dif­ferent, which makes things weird." 
Whether it's the weather, the work, dealing with the changes in friends or adjusting to campus again, most returning students said they did have some con­cerns about returning to Notre Dame, even after just a few months of absence. 
But with the UCC support group and planned OIS pro­grams, this semester students have many resources available to help with the readjustment process. 
"I defmitely plan on taking part in some of these offerings," said Winger. "They sound like great opportunities, and I'd love to get together again with all the peo­ple I met while abroad." 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 
COR 
continued from page 1 
tions to take place the first week of February. The student body president leaves office on April1. 
Leito said the current system with the early April transition fails to provide student govern­ment officers a full two semes­ters to accomplish their initia­tives. If the transition date was moved to later in the school year, more time would be allowed for the current presi­dent to tackle new ideas and finish projects from the first semester while also giving the in-coming president more time to set up his agenda, he said. 
"After April 1 programming for most clubs and organiza­tions on campus becomes very difficult," Leito said. "If the transition date was delayed until after commencement, there would be enough time for the new president to get the budget in order." 
Leito emphasized that moving the transition date to later in the semester would not affect the February elections. 
"Most likely the date for elec­tions would not change. It would just allow more time for the president-el~ct to set up his initiatives," Leito said. 

Chief executive assistant Dave Baron was in full support of the idea. 
"I think this is a great idea to move the transition date for­ward. Things that get done well happen during first semester. It is harder to make things hap­pen in second semester because of the April transition date," Baron said. 
Student body president Adam Istvan questioned the effect the date change would have on the president-elect. 
"One concern of mine is that this will be an awfully long period for a lame-duck presi­dent who knows they're going to be president the following year," he said. "It could create possible tension between the current president and the per­son elected to replace him." 
The possibility of moving the transition date back to January was also considered in the dis­cussion. If this were the case, the elections would likely take place in October to allow for a period of transition. 
"If the date was moved to the first day after Christmas break, then the following summer could be used to develop ideas already set in place," judicial council president Brin Anderson said. 
Leito expressed the need to 
research and evaluate how other "Top 20" universities go about transitioning from one president to the next. 
"I want to find out when other schools schedule their transitions and why they chose those dates. I want to research to find the most effective method," Leito said. 
However Leito noted that there are many steps that would be involved in changing the turnover date. 
"The matter still needs to be discussed with the oversight committee. If a possible resolu­tion is made, it will not affect any elections for this year," Leito said. 
In other COR news: 
+ The council welcomed new student union secretary Anna Skoien. She replaces Meg Smith, who is studying abroad for the second semester. 
"She worked with Meg with diligence and precision and there is no doubt in my mind that she will be an outstanding secretary," Istvan said. 
+ The council also approved sophomore Mark Healey as the new Director of Programming for the Student Union Board. 
In a letter to the council, SUB manager Jimmy Flaherty wrote, "Mark is far and away the best candidate for the posi­tion. He has demonstrated tion until March 1. tremendous time management skills." Contact Mary Kate Malone at 

Healey will occupy the posi-mmalone3@nd.edu 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music 
Faculty Recital 
JOHN BLACKLOW 
PIANIST 
].S. Bach 
French. SHite in E, BWV 817 
Alban Berg Piano Sonata, Op. 1 
Fryderyk Chopin Barcarolle, Op. 60-EtHde, Op. 10, No.4 
Robert Schumann 
Symphonic Etudes, Op. 13 
8:00p.m. Wednesday, January 19, 2005 
Leighton Concert Hall Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
General admission $10; faculty I staff $8; seniors $6; students $3 phone 574-631-2800 for tickets 






ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, January 18, 2005 CoMPILED r:RoM T1·JE ()BsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
====~~=====================================================~===~======= 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Abbas orders forces to end attacks 
1{;\M;\LL/\11. Wnst Bank -l'alnstinian lnadnr Mahmoud Abbas. undnr growing prnssurn to n~in in militants, ordnrnd his sncurity forcns Monday to prewnt attacks on lsranl and invnstigatn a dnadly shooting of lsnwli civilians last wnnk. 
But Palestinian security ofl'icials wore short on dntails about possibln actions against armed groups, and a spoknsman for llamas said his nxtrnmist group would con­tinun attacks. 
Tho ordnr by Abbas, approved by his C:abi nnt, was tlw l'alnstin ian loadorsh i p 's lirst stnp against militants sincn six lsranlis wnrn slain Thursday at thn Karni crossing lll'tW(Wn Israel and thn Caza Strip. 
Soap star dies at 88 of pneumonia 
NI·:W YOHK -Buth Warriek, thn darling of LIJP daytirnn soap opnra ";\II My Childrnn" who laundwd lwr ran~nr in Orson Wnlles' classi(~ "CitizPn Kann," has dind. ABC-TV said Monday. Shn was 88. 
Warr·ick died at hnr Now York home Saturday of corn pi kations from pneumonia, said ABC. 
In ";\II My Childrnn," which debuted in I'J70, Warrick playnd Phoebe Tyler Wallingford. tlw grande damn of the lkti­tious aflltwnt town of Pine Vallny. Shn por­trayml tlw nwdd((1SonHJ and over-tho-top pNsonality so bnlinvably that lwr fans ol'ten had troubln distinguishing bntwnnn thn styl­ish <u~trnss and lwr fictitious, nq ually sophistkatml eharaetN. 
Twien nominated for an Ernmy for tho roln, Warrick oftnn talkod about how l'honlw Tylnr had bneomn an intngral part of her lifn. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

U.S. celebrations mark MLK Day 
1\Tl.ANT;\ -;\nwricans inspirnd by Martin l.utlwr King .Jr. took part in marches and rai­l ins ar·ourHI the country Monday, drawing from thn latn dvil rights loader's messago to call for an nnd to thn Iraq war, advocate aiTirmalivn action and speak out for gay rights. 
In King's homntown. parade spcetators lirwd tlw strn!lls dancing to Stevie Wondp,r's "llappy Birthday" and listening to King's speeclws blaring ovnr tho loudspeakers. DospiU~ Monday's chilly temperatures, thou­sands of mardwrs tlwn walked through the Atlanta district wlwrn King grow up and proadwd. 
Avalanche search declared over 
1'/\IIK CITY, Utah -Authorities ondod a largo-sealo search for victims of last week's massive avalanehe Monday and said there is a good chance a body found ovnr the weekond was the lone victim. 
In northorn Idaho, mnanwhile, two snow­boarders from (;onzaga University in Spokarw, WasiL, were killed in an ava­lanche while snowboarding south of Mullan, tlw Shoshone County sheriff's office said. 
;\ third snowboarder, 22-yoar-old Scan Forbes, survived and walkod to a nearby house to call for hnlp. deputies said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Man returns after hip to Sri Lanka 
Wi\HSAW -;\ northern Indiana man W(dl-versed in relief efforts returned home al'ter a trip to Sri Lanka to examine el'f'e(~ts of the tsunami on a small region. 
.Joe Wilkny has spent the last 24 years in development work, having visited more than I 00 countries and 14 war ZOIHJS. 
But thn devastation brought on by the Dn(~. 26 Indian Ocean tsunami oven gavP him pause. 
"The scope of this one is huge," he said. 
IRAQ 


Insurgents kidnap Catholic archbishop 
More than 20 people are dead after a series ofattacks targeting security forces 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD, Iraq lnsurgP.nts kidnapped a Catholic archbishop and targeted security forces in a series of brazen assaults Monday that killed more than 20 people. A suicide bomber attacked U.S. Marines in Hamadi, where insurgents also beheaded two Shiite Muslims and left their bodies on a sidewalk. 
The top U.S. general in Iraq predicted violence during the Jan. 30 national olection but plndged to do "everything in our power" to ensurn safety of voters. ;\s part of a crackdown on insurgents, U.S. troops arrested more than 100 suspects over the past throe days, U.S. officials said. 
In Mosul, Archbishop Basile Georges Casmoussa of the Syrian Catholic Church, was seized by gunmen and the Vatican condemned the abduction as a "terrorist aet." The (,6-year-old churchman was grabbod while walking in front of his church, a priest said on condition of anonymity. 
Christians make up just 3 pnrcent of Iraq's 26 million people. The major Christian groups include Chaldean-1\ssyrians and Armenians with small closed number of' casual­had a handwrittnn note win most of' thn assmnbly numbers or Homan ties in a suicide ear bomb­declaring them collabora­seats. Many Sunni Arabs Catholics. ing in Hamadi, 70 miles tors, officials said. Four fear losing the power thny 
The deadliest attacks west of Baghdad. Marines found together had been nnjoyed under Saddam occurred in three cities in sent to cheek a suspicious shot while two discovemd llussein, and Sunni deries the llashpoint region north vehicle came under small later in the day were have eallnd ror a boycott of' and west of Baghdad arms and rocket-propelled beheaded, their blood­the vote. U.S. ollkials fear where Sunni Muslim insur­gmnade lir·n and the vehi­soaked bodies left when~ a low Sunni turnout may gents arn seeking to derail' cle exploded. they died. Tho notes identi­east doubt on the legitima­the election. "There were U.S. casual­fied the two beheadod vie­cy of the now government. 
In Buhriz, 35 miles north ties," 1st Lt. Lyle Gilbert tims as Shiito Muslims. In a statnment Monday, of Baghdad. gunmen said, but declinP.d to give Shiites have been targets G(1n. Georgn W. Casny .Jr·.. attacked an Iraqi National further details, citing secu­of intimidation because commander or the multi­Guard checkpoint at the rity. Later, the U.S. com­they are expeeted to turn national forcn in Iraq, said provincial broadcasting mand reported two out in large numbers for about 300,000 soldinrs and center, killing eight sol­Marines wero killed in the election for a 275-police from U.S.. Iraqi and dinrs and wounding four. ;\ action in the province that member National other l'oreign l'orces will he suicide driver set off' a ear includes Ramadi but would Assembly that will appoint available to protect votnrs bomb at a police station in not say whetlwr they died a new govnrnment and .Jan. 30. Beiji, 155 miles north of' in the car bombing. draft a permanent consti­"Is there going to be vio­the capital, killing seven Elsewhere in Hamadi, a tution. lence on elnetion day'? policemen and wounding predominantly Sunni /\bout 60 percent of' There is, but it's important 25 people. Muslim city, officials found Iraq's 26 million peop!P. that we understand what's 
;\ U.S. spokesman said the bodies or fivp, civilians arc Shiites, and their can­happening lwre," Casny Marines suffered an undis-and one Iraqi soldier. Each didates are expected to said. 

Bush plans 'big agenda' for second term 
views with CBS, ABC and NBC. their new government. Although
Associated Press 

"I have a responsibility to try to turnout is not expected to be high as 
Wi\SIIINGTON -President Bush unite this country to achieve big voters l'aee violence at the polls, said Monday he has "a big agenda in things for all ArnPricans," Bush told Bush said the election itself is a suc­mind" for his second term that ABC News. "I will say that in my cess. "Having the vote is a victory for bngins this week and that four years inaugural address. I'm looking for­those of us who love freedom," Bush is going to be a short time to meet all ward to the challenge." told "NBC Nightly News." his goals. lie said he'll announce his "big Besides Bush's swearing in on 
"We got to get moving and get agenda" at the State of the Union Thursday, the inaugural week festivi­some things done before -before addrnss in two weeks, but it will ties inelude a salute to America's people kind of write me ofT," Bush rnlleet his campaign promises. Those military and several lavish balls. told CBS News in an interview include overhauling Social Security Bush said he doesn't think all the 
lie said he hopes that with his linal and the legal liability system; pomp is exeessive despite the war election behind him, Republicans improving the tax eode, school stan­and last month's devastating tsuna­and Democrats in Congross will work dards and the budget process; and mi. together to pass his legislation. Unity making health care accessible to "You can be equally concerned will be the most important theme of more Americans. about our troops in Iraq and those his inaugural address on Thursday, Before the State of the Union, who suffered at the tsunamis with he said as he taped separate inter-Iraqis will hold the first elections for celebrating democracy," he told CBS. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, January 18, 2005 
ROMANIA 

66-year-old mother and baby doing vvell 
Professor becomes world's oldest woman to give birth 
Associated Press 
BUCHAREST -A 66-year­old professor who writes chil­dren's books elaims to have become the world's oldest woman to give birth, and doc­tors said Monday she and her day-old baby daughter were in good condition in intensive care. 
Doctors at the Giulesti Maternity Hospital in Bucharest said Adriana Iliescu became pregnant through in vitro fertilization using sperm and egg from anonymous donors. They said she deliv­ered her first child, Eliza Maria, by Caesarean section on Sunday and that a twin sister was stillborn. 
"The child is eating a bit of glucose," Dr. Mirela Ranga, a hospital spokeswoman, said Monday. "Mrs. Iliescu is still in intensive care, but she is mov­ing around. She is expected to go see her daughter a bit later." 
News of the birth at one of the capital's leading gynecolog­ical dinics sparked debate in Homania over the ethics of women beyond the age of fer­tility having babies. One church ollkial said it was shocking. 

lliescu sat up in her hospital bed Monday and told Associated Press Television News she was "more than happy" to have given birth. Dr. Bogdan Marinescu, who runs the hospital, said the unmar­ried professor of literature from Bucharest had undergone nine years of fertility treat­ments. 
A video of Eliza Maria showed her squirming in an incubator. She was dressed in a pink and white bodysuit with a pale pink woolen hat. Doctors said she was breathing on her own. 
The child was born more than six weeks short of a full 40-week pregnancy, the hospi­tal said. She weighed just 3 pounds, 3 ounces, less than half the weight of an average newborn and was in the inten­sive care unit. 
Doctors performed the Caesarean section after the smaller of lliescu's twins died in the womb, Ranga said. That child weighed just 1 pound, 8 ounces, she said. 
Marinescu said Iliescu's preg­nancy was achieved on the first attempt, and that she initially was carrying triplets but lost the third fetus after nine to 10 weeks. 



Globes leave road to Oscars fuzzy 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -A year ago, the Golden Globes brought sharp focus to what ultimately proved to be a predictable Academy Awards season. 
This time, the Globes have left the road to the ()scars a fuzzy one. 
Potential Oscar front-runners I lilary Swank of the boxing saga "Million Dollar Baby" and Jamie Foxx of the Hay Charles lilm biog­raphy "Hay" came away with lead-acting prizes at Sunday's Globes. 
But the Globes were a split decision for perpetual Oscar also­ran Martin Scorsese, whose Howard Hughes epic "The Aviator" won for best drama, yet missed out on the dirm:ting honor, which went to Clint Eastwood for "Million Dollar Baby." 
Globe wins for underdogs Clive Owen and Natalie Portman, co­stars of the sex drama "Closer," leave the supporting-actor Oscar categories wide open. Morgan Freeman of "Million Dollar Baby" and Cate Blanchett of "The Aviator" had been viewed as more likely favorites. 
Add in lead-acting Globes for two other Hollywood veterans, Leonardo DiCaprio as Hughes in "The Aviator" and Annette Boning in the theater farce "Being Julia," and the Feb. 27 Oscars could be an anything-goes scenario across the board. 
The Oscars last year followed the Globes' lead to the letter. All four acting recipients preceded their Oscar triumphs with Globe wins, while "The Lord of the Rings: The Heturn of the King" followed its dominant night at the Globes with a clean sweep of its 11 Oscar categories, including best picture and director. 
Boning won the musical or comedy actress Globe for "Being Julia," playing a gleefully venge­ful 1930s stage diva. It was the first awards-worthy role Boning 
has had since "American Beauty" five years ago, when she was the front­runner, but lost the Golden (;lobe dramatic prize and the best­actress Oscar to underdog Swank for "Boys Don't Cry." 
Not wanting to jinx her Oscar chances, B£ming sidestepped a question back-

dramatic actor, normally would
"/think it's just 
have the inside
unfortunate that 
track at the things are seen as Oscars, which favors Globe
winners and losers. 
drama winners.
because in the end, 
But Foxx, the the performances all Globe winner for actor in a musical
speak for themselves 
or comedy, proba­
and make everyone, I 
bly will emerge as 
think, a winner." the Oscar favorito. His role as Charles goes
Hilary Swank 
head-to-head with 
actress 
stage at the Globes about what she would wear to the Osears. "Trick question," Bening quipped. 
Swank, playing a fighter whose life turns tragic, won the dramat­ic-actress Globe for "Million Dollar Baby." She downplayed the potential Oscar rematch with Bening. 
"I don't really see it as competi­tion," Swank said. "Annette's amazing, and she was so gra­cious to me five years ago when we were both nominated. She gave me good advice and she was gracious, and she's an inspira­tion. 
"I think it's just unfortunate that things are seen as winners and losers, because in the end. the performances all sp1~ak for themselves and make everyone, I think, a winner. I'm just honomd to have my name mentioned with hnr." 
Like Swank and Bening, lead­aetor winners Foxx and DiCaprio seem poised as chief Oscar con­tenders. DiCaprio, who won for 
DiCaprio's turn as 
I Iughes for heavy­duty drama, and his portrayal was an uncannily spot-on emula­tion of the singer, who died last yoar. 
"It's a beautiful thing for Hay and everything he leaves us," said Foxx, who had a record three Globe nominations but lost the other two, supporting movie aetor for "Collateral" and TV movie or miniseries actor for "Redemption." 
"The Aviator" was the top Globe winner with three trophies. With its grand scope, weighty drama and vibrant re-creation of early Hollywood, "The Aviator" now is positioned as a possible front-runner for best-picture. 


THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Tuesday, January 18, 2005 
page 7 
==============~-­

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 


10,558.00 +52.17 

}ones ·'· 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,247 161 ·~ 1,334,819,968 
AMEX I ,399.07 -1.53 NASDAQ 2,0X7.91 +17.35 NYSE. 7,066.22 +37.55 S&P 500 I, I X4.52 +7.07 NIKKEI(Tokyo) II ,438.39 0.00 
fTSf. IOO(London) 4,X20.80 +20.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE INTEL CP (INTC) +0.88 +0.20 23.02 SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIR/) -0.15 -0.0 I 6.45 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.57 -0.15 26.12 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +0.53 +0.10 18.88 APPLIED MATERIALS (AMAT) +1.72 +0.28 16.53 


30-YEAR BOND +0.38 +0./8 47.34 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.69 +0.29 42.16 5-YEAR NOTE + 1.03 +0.38 37.11 3-MONTH BILL +0.78 +0.18 23.20 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.26 48.53 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) -2.00 423.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.40 95.4.3 
E.xcha Rates 
YEN I 02.000 EURO 0.7630 POUND 0.5344 CANADIAN$ 1.2171 
IN BRIEF 



Pets to earn air miles on Midwest 
MII.WAUKI\E-Midwest Airlines is foeusing on four-footiHI customers in hopes of wooing rnorP of tho two-footml kind. 
Midwnst announcml a program Monday that givns pots a lhw round-trip ticket for every llmw dornnstic round-trip l'lights they take with tlwir ownnrs. 

By contrast, Midwest's human passnngers g•~t frnn round trips at 25.000 milns -a milnag•~ rnquiromnnt that frequently requires mort~ than throe domestic round trips. 
"Whiln in thn past their owners havn been racking up miles on frnn trips. all the pets havn IHwn getting is a pat on the head," Midwest CJ:o Tim lloeksema said Monday. 

Tho promotion follows a similar one announcPd last wonk by United Airlines, whieh is oiTnring pnt owners 1,200 bonus milos on up to two round-trip tickets wlwn tlwy fly with tlwir pPts bnforn May 27. 
President of Comair Inc. resigns 
CINCINNATI -Thn prnsident M Delta sub­sidiary Comair Inc. resigned Monday, woeks after tlw failure of an ovnrloadnd computer systnm shut down tlw earrinr's flights nation­wide on Christmas. 
Handy Hadmnachnr made a personal deci­sion to leave, Cornair spokesman Nick Miller said. "I don't want to spoculate on the mason for tlw d•~•·.ision, lw said. 
Mill(H' said an internal nwmo from a Delta exrH~utivo says Badnmadwr stnppnd down to pursu•~ otlwr unspneilind opportunities. The rnnrJw's contents worn reported Monday by Tlw C:indnnati l(nquin~r. 
flpfta Air !.inns Inc., which owns the carrier hasod at tlw Cineinnati-Nortlwrn Kentucky lntornational Airport. appointml Fred Buttrell. lwad of the ()pfta Conrwetion group, as presi­dent of Com air. 
Comair's approximatl~ly I, I 00 l'lights were 

•·anc•dod on Christmas, stranding hundreds of passPngers who couldn't arrangn other tlights. Thn company hlanwd nunwrous passenger sdu•duling changes lwcause of an kn storm. 


Former World Com CEO faces trial 
Three years after his business collapses, Bernard Ebbers will be tried for fraud 
Associated Press 
NHW YOHK-WorldC:om 
lru:. was in trouble. Tho 
stock price was wobbly 
and Wall Street was asking 
tough questions. But CEO 
Br~rnard Ehbors repeatedly 
put a positive face on his 
company. promising sound 
finances, strong revenue 
growth and conser-vative 
aceounting -famously 
roassuring eoncernnd ana­
lysts in 2001 that "we do 
not son any storms on tho 
horizon." 
Federal prosecutors say Ebbms was lying, orches­trating a shnll game to cover up his company's financial trouble and stay in Wall Street's good graces. In the summer of 2002, WorldCom collapsed under the weight of an $11 billion accounting fraud and filed for the largest bankruptcy in the history of American business. 
Two and a half ynars later, Ebbers. 6:~. faces a criminal fraud and con­spiracy trial in New York, with jury selPction getting under way this week. 

The trial completes a remarkabiP arc for Ebbers, from vrsuJilary who launched a long-distance company with colleagues at a Mississippi cofl'ee shop in 1983, to leader of one of tho world's leading mail message in which lion partly by relying on a and now operates under telecommunications firms, Sullivan told Ebbers that a series of e-mails they said the name MCI Inc., with to accused felon facing WorldCom internal rev­showed Quattrone deliber­headquarters in Ashburn. possibly years in prison. enue report "just keeps ately obstructed a federal Va. 
While Ebbers has kept a getting worse and worse." stock investigation. Manhattan prosoeutors low profile since he was The defense is expected The federal indictment of will be gunning for tlwir indictnd in March 2004, he to argue that Ebbers left Ebbers does ro!'er to a latest high-profile whito­has always maintained his the accounting decisions to memorandum he sent in eollar conviction, hoping to innocence. Sullivan, and that Sullivan July 2001 to a senior follow wins against Martha 
Potential jurors are set to was willing to tell the gov­WorldCom officer, asking Stewart and two exncutivns fill out questionnaires ernment what it wantnd to for information about from Adnlphia Wednesday, with in-court hear when he made his "those one time events that Communications Corp. juror interviews set for deal last year. had to happen." Tho prosecution is lnd by next Monday. The star wit­Unlike other recent Among prosecutors' alle­David Anders, part of tlw ness for the govPrnment is white-collar trials. prose­gations is that Ebbers had govornment tmun that won expected to be Scott cutors do not havo -or at an almost frenzied desire a conviction in Quattrone's Sullivan, the former ehief least have not tipped their from 2000 to 2002 to see obstruction trial. financial officer of hands publicly -much of WorldCom meet Wall Tho Ebbers trial is WorldCom, who faced his a paper trail from Ebbers, Street's expectations for expoeted to last four to own trial until pleading who was said not to use e­quarterly revenue and night weeks. It will he fol­guilty in March 2004 and mail often. earnings, ignoring lowed elosnly by some of agreeing to testify against In tho 2004 trial of star Sullivan's pleas to issue tho tens of thousands o[ his former boss. technology banker Frank earnings warnings. people who lost their jobs 
Prosecutors are expected Quattrone, for example, WorldCorn has since or their investments whon to play a June 2001 voiee-prosecutors won a convic-emerged from bankruptcy WorldCom foldod in 2002. 

Verizon and Yahoo team up for Internet deal 
Associated Press 

SAN JOSE, Cali!'. -Subscribers to Vnrizon Communications Inc.'s high­spood Internet services will be able to access customized and prnmium content from Web giant Yahoo Ine. undnr a multiyear agreement that combines the companies' ofTnrings into a single brand. 
The deal, whose terms were not disclosed, is the latest example or an Internet provider toaming up with a content company to ol"fnr morn than just a fast connection. For thnir part, eontnnt providers receive groatnr exposure and a slice of monthly per­subscriber fees. 
Tnrms of the deal announced 
Monday were not disclosed. 

Verizon is the second major U.S. phone company to partner with Yahoo. Since 2002, Yahoo and SBC Communications Inc. havo boon bundling their of'f'erings. Yahoo also has agreements with British Telecom and Hognrs Comrfrunications, a Canadian eabln company. 
New York-based Verizon also has a deal with Microsoft Corp.'s MSN to provide content to its customers. Starting this summer, Yahoo will become tho preferred partner. said Bobbi llnnson, a Verizon spokes­woman. 
Verizon-Yahoo broadband will oiTor premium serviens such as greater e­mail storage, video and radio as well as access to a eo-branded honw page. Subserib•~rs will use tho sanw usnrname and password to log in to all serviens. 
"It's all bundled with thn llSL prien, mueh likn SBC, so thorn's no addi­tional cost to tho end usnr," said Stevo Boom, snnior vie•~ president of broadband ;u~e•~ss and bundlml snrv­ices at Sunnyvale, Calil'.-basod Yahoo. 
Verizon's broadband ofl'nrings start at $29.95 a month if' us•n·s sign up for a year. In October, it roportml a total 3 million digital subserihnr linos, which transports data ov•~r regular phorw lirws. It's also rolling out a serviee that usns f'ast liber opti(' eable instead of coppor wires. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, January 18, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box ~79, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Datne, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Marr Lazar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR; Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen · WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CoNTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERALlNFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
-(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4 543 sports.! @nd.edu 
ScENE DEsK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 


OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Sa;int Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent th¢ opinion of the majority ofd1e Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer, 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Matt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The ObSI:!rvtt (USPS -599 2-4000) i.s published Monday through Friday ~xcepr during tx:am and vacation periods. A:rubsctlptiOil tel-The ObsC!tVet is $1 on for Ollt atadcmic yeu; $5"5 Wr one .reme:Hcr. 
The Obstrvet is pu.blished at: POSTMASTER 
014 Smuh Dining. Hall Send i!ddr~ oort~cit~n!> to~ 
Ntltre Dame. JN 4655:6+0779 Th~Oh~rver 
PerindicaJ postage paid ar Norte Dame RO. Box 779 
.:.n:J additional mailingoflkeii. 014 South Diniog Hall 
Not" Dam,, IN 46S56-0779 
The Ohst'TVcr is a me!'nbt:f ofthe As..~nci~tctl Press. All reptndllctiOJ:t rlghH-~'< reserved. 

Free Tibet a global cause 
In recent weeks, there has been an outpouring of support for the vietims of the tsunami in Southeast Asia. In the aftermath of a rather bitter elec­tion, this union of Republicans, Democrats and Independents reach­Katie Boyle ing out to those in desperate need of For J.t7zat It's our help is truly Worth inspiring. 
In addition, these events remind us of an area of the world that is oftentimes negleeted in our newspapers and magazines. Understandably, national affairs tend to preoccupy citizens and the media. Those countries that present neither significant economic benefit nor threat to the United States frequently fall by the wayside in terms of the­attention they receive from the press, the eitizenry and our government. 
Tibet is one of these countries. I first learned about the plight of this nation when I was 13 and on a trip to New Mexico with my parents. The streets of Santa Fe were lined with artists, and as I was just beginning a phase where I was obsessed with the '60s and '70s, the free spirited atmos­phere of the town, coupled with the gorgeous scenery, made it intensely appealing. 
Each street contained nooks, cran­nies and back allies where you might find a small gem of an art gallery, handmade jewelry store or, in the case of one dusty side road, a tiny store that sold a multitude of Tibetan erafts. 
Accompanying these pieces, were T­shirts, signs and bumper stickers that read "Free Tibet." 

Like many Americans, I had no idea from what Tibet needed freedom. I also, however, had Bob Dylan's "The Times They Are A-Changin"' ringing in my ears, although I had yet to real­ize that some of the idealism he inspired had fizzled out around the time "Video Killed the Radio Star" hit the airwaves. I took a pamphlet, and, becoming fascinated by the character of this unique country, began to research the Tibetan situation. 
Prior to the Chinese invasion in 1950, Tibet was an independent nation, reputed for its spiritual and peaceful indigenous peoples. Despite a National Uprising in 1959, Tibetans remained under Chinese eontrol, and the Dalai Lama, who funetions as the country's spiritual leader and head of state, was forced to flee to India. According to www.freetibet.org, approximately 87,000 Tibetans were murdered as a result of this uprising. 
In the years since this tragedy, a total of 1.2 million Tibetans have died at the hands of the Chinese. Human rights abuses include not only these murders, but also a prominent use of torture, beatings, imprisonment, interference with religious practices, a militaristic control over the educa­tion of Tibetan children and numer­ous broken treaties that had guaran­teed Tibet a relative autonomy. For the Tibetans, dissent is not meant to be an option. 
But what has the United States done to prevent these horrors from occur­ring? 
Well, America has given China "Most Favored Nation Status" despite the nation's unwillingness to stem the tide of human rights abuses on her shores and in Tibet. Despite the United States' lip service encourage­ment of negotiations with the Dalai Lama and of milder policies toward Tibetan civilians, this action amounts to a gross permission of not only the devastating oppression of the Tibetan people but that of the Chinese as well. 
The Chinese government's abuses reaeh from its destructive 1950 inva­sion to those dead or starving in pris­ons today. In 1995 they kidnapped the 6-year-old Panchen Lama, Gedhun Choekyi Nyima, who remains missing today. Another religious leader, Tenzin Deleg Rinpoche, has been sen­tenced to death, despite the lack of evidence of his involvement in a 2002 bomb explosion. Four monks are being held in prison for distributing eopies of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 
As extreme as these cases may sound, they are only a few of many known examples of human rights vio­lations by the Chinese. To learn more about this cause, visit freetibet.org. 
As we have been shown in recent weeks, reaehing out to those across the globe can have an incredible impact on their lives. Let these mis­sions of mercy not stop at the devas­tation of the tsunami but extend to those other nations and peoples who also so desperately need our help. 
Katie Boyle is a senior English, political science and Spanish major. She supports the Democratic Party. She can be reached at kboyle2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF 0BSERV~R POLL
News Sports Teresa Fralish Pat Leonard Maddie Hanna Eric Retter 
Julie Bender Maggie Oldham 

What type of job do you feel student 
Viewpoint Scene Katherine Rowley Ram a government has done this year? Graphics Gotturnkkala Graham Ebetsch Illustrator 

Katie Knorr Vote by Friday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Words are, ofcourse, the most powerful drug used by mankind." 
Rudyard Kipling author 


THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Tuesday, January 18, 2005 page 9 
==================~-~-~~================================~====================~====~ 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Injustice stretches further than race 
Monday was Martin Luthor King, .Jr. Day. It is a day to renHnnber this groat man and tlw things ho stood for: equality und1~r tho law, unconditional lov11, non-violent protnst and brother­hood amongst all pooplos. Boyond that I think Monday was a day that drew us into rellection. not only of inconsis­tPnrios and irwquities of tho past, but of t.lw prnsent and. unfortunatoly, tlw futurn. In llw midst of our rol'loction wo must ask oursPivos, both as an individual and a coll!1ctivn soei11ty, if t.lwrl' is an isstw of projudieo that must bo addrnssPd. 
My rel'loclion brings nw spncilic.ally to ono issuo: gay rights in Amnrica, or as somo might say, tho partial rights of gay pooplo in America. It is not dif­lkullto son, with an opon oyo mind you, how Amoriean homosexuals f'aco projudko in this country. Whilo I admit, tlw story of gay rights in Anwriea has not been plagued with tlw lovol of' violence or outright rdusal of basic rights that thn story of' civil rights was, it is still vnry impor­tant to bring our attention to thn injusticos visited upon many gay poo­plo. As King would remind us, ".lnjustil:n ;wywh.~1ff1 is a threat to jus­t.rco ovorywlwro. 
More than anything I believe this country is in rwed of' an impassioned call to action to strive f'or gay rights. I feel it is important ber.ausn currently tlwre is a silting presidnnt who sup­ports a constitutional ban on gay mar­riagP. Couple that with many othnr public polieins. ineluding llw nmbar­rassing "don't ask don't tell" policy of' tho amwd f'orens, denying gay people tho right to openly servo in the mili­tary, and common public misconcep­tions, tlwrn is reason f'or great alarm. 
On April 16, l1J63, King wrote his "Lelt11r f'rom a Birmingham .Jail." ln i~ hn addross11s inlluontial Birmingham clorgymnn who undorminnd his mes­sage and method. Somn of the lessons King taught in this powerful text about tlw struggle f'or eivil rights can and should be applied to today's strug­giP in Anwriea f'or gay rights. 
First. drawing upon teachings of' St. Thomas Aquinas. King wrotn, "Any law that uplifts human personality is just. Any law that degrades marriage, if' it were to pass through Congress and be signed into law by Prosidont Goorge W. Bush, which he has indicated ho would do, is eloarly indiiTerence made legal. This ban would make it legal to deny homosnx­ual couples the same rights heterosex­uals enjoy in marriage. l think it 
would bo hard to say with a straight 
face how that would not be a 

human personality is 
majority forcing a minori­unjust." In my opinion, ty to obey a law that is thn "don't ask don't in no way binding to tplf" policy of' the the majority itself'. I armed forces, think it is pretty aeeording to this obvious. 

As I said above, I believe America needs 
a strong r.all to direct action in the fight for gay 
rights. King in his letter also address­es why direct 
action is needed. lle outlines why it is not OK to be 
moderate in the 

selves in order to face of prejudice. fight f'or their Many whites dur­country. It strikes ing the Civil Hights nw as sickly ironic movement believed in that many men and the equality King was women are fighting f'or lib­p-reaching but did not 
erty when thoy r.annot op1mly liberate thnmselves. If that is not a dogradation of personality, l do not know what is. 
King also wrote, "An unjust law is a code that a numcrir.al or power majority group compels a minority group to obey but does not make bind­ing on itself'. This is diiTerenr.e made legal." The constitutional ban on gay 
agree with his methods, which they believed r.aused too mur.h of a disturbance. King clearly expresses why they should not hold to that, and l believe this applies to the plight f'or gay rights as well. King stressed that it was unacr.optable to hold to a "neg­ative pear.c, which is the absence of tension, linstoad on to a positive pear.e whir.h is the presence of jus­tieo." For those of' us who bnlinvn homosnxuals are not getting thnir f'air sharo of' "life, libnrty and tho pursuit of' happiness," His no longer okay t.o idly sit by and watr.h the detnrioration of' tho civil libortins this country is so lovingly built upon. Not only should we dnsire to cause and creatn tPnsion. it is tlw propnr thing to eaus11 and ern­ate tnnsion. King put it bnst whnn lw wrote, "lnjustien must bn exposnd to thn light of' human conscinncn and tho air of national opinion bdorn it can bn curnd." 

For those who may objnr.t and say, "This situation will work itsnlf' out," King addressnd that. issue as well. To those people King writos, "Such an attitudo stmns f'rom a tragic miscon­ception of' timn, f'rom the strang11ly irrational notion that thoro is some­thing in tho v1~ry flow of' time that. will innvitably r.uro all ills." lt is simply not enough to hope it happens. As Dr. King so wisely notes of' history, "The people of' ill will havn used time much more oiTnctivnly than havn tho pnopln of good will." 
I hope on this day of' rnf'lortion on the lif'o and message of' King, instnad of' asking your·self why you arn attnnd­ing class you are asking yoursnlf' what in this society demands action. King's life and tragic death would bn in vain if' we continually turn a blind oyn to tho injustices perpetuated. May wn all long f'or thn time when "the deep fog of' misunderstanding will bn lil'tnd f'rom our fear-drenched communities, and in some not too distant tomorrow tho radiant stars of lovo and brother­hood will shine over our grnat nation with all their sr.intillating bnauty." 
Steve McDevitt sophomore Siegfried llall Jan I 7 

standard, is dearly unjust. This policy f'orces homo­sexuals to dnny an aspect of' their person­ality. As the situation stands, many gay people and lesbians are forced to roprflss a key aspoet of' them­
What does Black History mean to you? 

WIH1n first introduced to Black History Month as a youth, l received the fairy­lain v1~rsion of' my doseondents who were brought to America. The storyline ran that Africans r.amo as slaves, Lincoln f'rned them, Martin Luther King Jr. brought about equality and today we ean have that "American Dream." Of course this is in no way comparablo to the truth of Black History and docs not nntailthn ovnr three hundred years of' pain, suffering and struggling or the desct11Hlents of the Africans first brought to this r.ountry and surrounding islands as chattel slavns. 
Blark History Month as well as the rotor of' my skin reminds me of tho ehosen pnople who suf'f'nrnd thn iniquities and pain brought about by human cruelty. Ynt in spitn of' the onslavnment, hatred and abuses plar.ed upon thorn, they f'ought and prnvai111d as best they could. There worn many people who died so that my peers and I may have opportunities and inalienable rights that were handnd f'rom Cod and not man. 
Black llistory Month is not just a reminder of Blaek Amerir.an History, but of Amnrican History. The economy and social order that we see today was built ofT tlrn backs of the free-labor slaves working 14 hours-a-day for almost 200 years as wnll as the blaeks who wore (and are still) denied equal wages and opportu­nities although they were qualified and performed the same jobs. 
I hopo that in the future we aro all, of every race, reminded that the blar.k raco oxcecdod the expectations or their oppressors. Black Amerir.ans, wore intonded as subhuman -three-fifths human to be exact-and servants in this eountry, meant to affirm the supposed superiority of white Americans. Yet in spite of it all, the percflived "mules" of society have been able to prevail against immense opposition. These triumphs r.ost the lives, blood, security and hard 
work of many Americans. 

The struggle has not ended. People assume that because the physical bodies of blacks were emancipated that the mentalities wore rehabilitatod. We some­how forget that up until 50 years ago tho murder, rape, torture and lynching of' blar.ks wore pervasive. My grandparents and parents suffered abusos during and prior to the Civil Rights Movement that left them disappointed and !wart­broken, yet they were expected to successfully raise me as a black woman in America. 
Racism today is veiled in the forrn of racial profiling, institutional racism and other basic everyday images of black Americans as aggressive people, promis­euous athletes, welfare-abusers and criminals, amongst other things. Yet, again, I am expected to somehow raise children in this society where thny will be impacted by the negative images they see of their people through the media and other sources? Until we choose to look at tho reality of our social system and the effects that we have on others, it will be impossible to oradieate the existing inequalities of today. 
It is my hope and my prayer that we strive individually and eolleetiv11ly to bn bettor humans in search of brotherhood and sisterhood that transcends color lines and connects through the soul. You must learn from the past to reach the future. 
Terri Baxter 
senior 
Badin Hall Jan. 17 
Tl-JE 0BSEitVER 




CENE


page 10 Tuesday, January 18, 2005 
DVD GUIDE MOVIE REVIEW 
A beginner's guide to DVD, part 3 
Video transfers and more 
Editor's Note: This is the third in a restoration before DVD presentation. three-part series on the basics of Some companies such as Lowry Digital Video Discs. Digital ("Indiana Jones," "Star Wars," "Citizen Kane") and Criterion have become renowned for their restora­
By BRIAN DOXTADER 

tion efforts. Scene Writer 
Restoration is a complicated and often difficult matter. Unlike straight transfers, the original negatives are
What is a DVD transfer? 

usually in unpreserved shape, and, inA transfer is the compression of film 
the worst case scenarios, are com­
into digital information that is placed 
pletely destroyed altogether. Prints 
onto the DVD. 

can have scratches, dirt, or tears that What problems hurt transfers? degrade the quality of the film, and 
A transfer is essentially the move­thus, the DVD. This leads to all kinds ment from one exhibition medium to of problems: un-restored transfers can another; a DVD will rarely look as range from "good" to "unwatchable", good as film stock when projected. depending on the source materials. Accordingly, there can be various pic­Bringing old films back to life usual­ture quality problems with DVD trans­ly consists of (and requires) computer­fers. ized digital cleaning of the print. 
Color prints are often even more dif­
What is edge enhancement? 

ficult since older films usedEdge enhancement is the artificial 
Technicolor's three-dye process. Thissharpening of an image to compensate process created prints that faded overfor the transfer to a digital medium. 
time, so older negatives of such filmsWhile this is generally not noticeable are colored incorrectly. Restorers thuson a smaller television, edge enhance­
have to use computers to re-color
ment on a larger display will cause these films as accurately as possible.
haloing. Haloing is a picture imperfec­This often leads to problems akin to
tion caused by differences in light 
remixed audio: in many cases, the col­and/or color. It is comparable to the ors won't be exactly the same as origi­
extraneous light caused by a street­
nally filmed. The original transfer oflamp. Generally, it is better if a film ~s 
David Lean's "Lawrence of Arabia"transferred without digital enhance­was color-timed incorrectly, but the
ment, but this can cause picture soft­
newly restored Superbit re-issue has
ness. 

since corrected this issue.
Another potential problem is com­
Additionally, bad compression or
pression artifacting or digital artifact­transfers can affect color levels, espe­ing. Artifacts are imperfections in the cially in black tones, which can lookpicture caused by poor compression of either splotchy or faded.
the digital information when placed In some cases, serendipity leads to
on the disc. They appear as pixilation excellent re-issues of older films. Forin otherwise clear prints and are usu­instance, Carl Theodor Dreyer's "Theally noticeable and distracting. 
Passion of Joan of Arc" was thought to What is picture softness? be lost forever to fire. However, a Picture softness is the opposite nearly-complete print in good condi­
extreme of edge enhancement. In this, tion was discovered in a mental insti­the DVD is actually less detailed than tute in the mid-1980s. A completethe original film print. This is another restoration followed. result of switching between two differ­Similarly, Criterion had prepared a ent mediums. The effect of picture transfer of Jean Renoir's "The Rules 
softness is an image that looks slightly of the Game" when new and better out of focus. Again, this is more source materials surfaced; the compa­m~ti~eable on larger displays than on ny re-restored the film from this new smaller televisions. materiaL Yet there are still problems Original and remixed Sound with finding good source material. Soundtracks should be clear and While Kino's edition of Fritz Lang's free of hiss, pops or crackles. Most "Metropolis" is the best and most 
studios are able to create clear sound­complete edition available, it is widely mixes, although many do not take known that there are still consider­advantage of surrounds and have able amounts of footage missing, 
most of the soundtrack mixed to the probably gone forever. 
center speaker. What's Next? 
When possible, a studio should The final word comes in the form of maintain the original sound mix as a warning of sorts. The next wave of intended by filmmakers. Often, how­technology will soon be upon us, and a ever, they will remix the sound in a format war may be brewing, similar to 
different format. Remixed soundtracks the war between VHS and Beta. Sonyalmost never sound the same as the (which recently acquired MGM's cata­original. For instance, James log) is backing its own blue-laser tech­
Cameron's "The Terminator" has an nology, Blu-Ray, while Warner,optional 5.1 track in addition to the Universal, New Line, and Paramount original mono; the differences in these are all backing HD-DVD. tracks are immediately noticeable. While both technologies have their Most frustrating is when studios place benefits and drawbacks, only time will 
only remixed tracks onto DVD's. tell which will emerge as the superior
Steven Spielberg's "Jaws" is available format. In the meantime, DVD is the in two separate editions: DTS and best commercially available technolo­
Dolby 5.1. Unfortunately, neither ver­gy and has revolutionized the home 
sion contains the original mono 
theater market for the better. 
soundtrack. 

Restoration Contact Brian Doxtader at Many older films undergo digital bdoxtade@nd.edu 
Scorsese's 'bioepic' brings eccentric millionaire to life 

She transcends cheap imitation into a By BRIAN DOXTADER full-bodied performance that allows the Scene Critic audience to accept that she is attempt­
ing to play, arguably, the most famous 
There is a sequence almost two hours actress of all time. Kate Beckinsale into Martin Scorsese's "The Aviator" acquits herself surprisingly well as Ava that is startling, explosive, harrowing Gardner, Ian Holm adds some nice and even a little emotional. It is every­comic relief as Professor Fitz and John thing that we hope for in film from the C. Reilly is predictably dependable as 
-man who brought us "Raging Bull" and Noah Dietrich, Hughes' financial advi­"Taxi Driver." While the rest of the film sor. doesn't quite reach the grandiose ' Scorsese remains a master of his art. heights of a few key scenes, The He packs his scenes with vitality and Aviator is a majestically artistic and chooses his shots carefully, with an ambitious statement in an age where uncanny knack for composition, editing the word "epic" has come to mean and cinematography. "The Aviator" is a turgidly pretentious Hollywood produc­beautiful film, perhaps the best looking tions like "Pearl Harbor" or film of the year, with wide shots of air­"Alexander." plane fields, crowds of people and soar­
"The Aviator" is the story of Howard ing vistas. Thankfully, Scorsese also Hughes (Leonardo DiCaprio): film pro­manages to shift between intimate and ducer, aviation epic with relative giant, Hollywood ease, giving "The playboy and all­Aviator" a much
The Aviator 
around eccentric. better flow and The film begins 
emotional weight in an expository than might be t1ashback which expected from attempts · to such a wide­
Director: Martin Scorsese
explain some of reaching biopic.
Writer: John Logan

Hughes' later There are, of
Starring: Leonardo DiCaprio, Cate
oddities. It then course, moments
Blanchett, Kate Beckinsale and Ian Holm
flash-forwards to that rival the 1927 and the set director's best of "Hell's Angels," a film that Hughes work, in particu­produced and co-directed. The film fol­lar the late-film plane crash that lows Hughes' glory days over a two remains the film's biggest highlight. decade period, from the late 1920s to Still, the film is not perfect. Too much the late 1940s, noticeably ignoring the is made of Hughes' obsessive-compul­hermetic drug-filled conclusion of his sive disorder, and parts of his life are life. In its wide scope, there are inter­over-dramatized almost to the point of esting touches, like the appearance of melodrama. These elements add a legendary Hollywood luminaries Errol darkly sinister undercurrent to the film Flynn (played by Jude Law, hamming it and undercut its intentions. Thus, The up to perfection). Louis B. Mayer (the Aviator often uncomfortably straddles last M in MGM), and Jean Harlow its commercial ambitions with the (played by No Doubt singer Gwen darker sensibilities of its director. Stefani). Despite these caveats, Martin 
The acting is all top-notch. DiCaprio Scorsese's The Aviator is still one of the turns in one of the best performances best films of the year. Howard Hughes of his career, invoking Hughes with an is an interesting man in this broad 
adventurousness and restlessness that character-study, and for the most part, he adroitly couples with the mogul's the film works. While it may not rival eventual drift into madness. The real the best work of the director's storied stars, however, are the supporting career, he still inflects the film with a roles, which play out as a "who's who" humanity and power that is increasing­of contemporary Hollywood. Cate ly rare in Hollywood. Blanchett has "Oscar-nomination" writ­ten all over her with a stunningly accu­Contact Brian Doxtader at rate portrayal of Katherine Hepburn. bdoxtade@nd.edu 



THE OBSERVER 




CENE
litestfay, January 18, 2005 
page I 1 
MOVIE REVIEWS 
Great cast chetnistry puts filtn atnong great cotnpany 
By CHRIS KEPNER 
Sct·nc Critic 
"In (;ood Company" is a now e7mwdy from Paul Woitz, whoso past niTorts includo "i\.nwrican Pin" and "/\bout a Boy." Comparnd to his earlier conwdic oiTorts, you can enrl.ainly oxpoct a lovol of S«'riousrwss from this latost work. which OJHHH'd in t.lwaters Friday. 
I>mwis Quaid I"Tiw Alamo," "Cold Crook Manor"l stars as Dan Fornman, tlw !'i I-yoar-old !wad of ad salns for Sportsi\.mnrira magazinn. lin's a good boss, wnll-lik1~d by his nrnployoes and l'inishing up tlw bost yPttr of sal1~s llwy'v1~ 1wer had. l·:nter Cartnr I>uryna, played by Toplwr Cracn ("That 70s Show," "Win a 
lion. and Wnitz milks tho humor from it succossfully, but with tasteful discre­tion. !\. loss talnntnd director could havn oasily ovnrdonn it. 
!\. nnw twist is introduced when Carter falls for Dan's daughter /\lox (Scarlett .Johansson), a rather tlllllX­poctnd doparture from t.ho old eJiC(HJ of sleeping with tlHl boss's daughter. Don't let yourself be foolod, however, into believing that this is a romantie eoino­dy. Tho lovn affair aets mnrely as a subplot in the dnvolopnwnl of Cartnr and Dan's unlik1~ly l'riondship. 
!\. eoupln of lost accounts later, c;loboeom's bottom-line philosophy l'orcns Carter to make eut after cut in t.hn stal'l' of Sportsi\.merka, a staff that Dan had bonn responsiuln l'or hiring 
and training. 
Date with Tad They were not 
llamilton!"l. In Good Comp!lny only good work­Cart.IH' is a 2(,­
nrs, but his y1•ar-old oxnnrtive l'rinnds as woll. ;,n till' risl' in tlw Dan offers up his (; I o h n c o m own job to save Director: Paul Weitz 
Corporation, an those of his Writer: Paul Weitz 
ahsu rd ly largo workers, but 
Starring: Dennis Quaid., Topher Grace, 
1~onglonwrate that Cart!H quickly d1~als in nvnry­reminds him of
Scarlett Johansson and Philip Baker Hall 

thing from coli phonos to broakl'asl eernal, and which has just purchased Sportsi\.merica. 
Cartnr is appointed to take over Dan's job, and Dan is demoted to Carter's "wingman." Though evnryone thought lw would certainly bn firnd, Cartnr snns potential in Dan and dncidns to keep him on. Thn whiz kid with no prior nxpnrience in ad sales is now in charge of the vnteran of over two decades. 
This crnatns a very intnresting situa­
his desperate need to stay employed for the sake of his family. With the news of his wife's unexpected pregnancy and a second mortgage taken out in order to send Alex to NYU, Dan simply eannot afford to stop working. 
Through all of this adversity, a mutu­al respect develops between Carter and Dan whkh eventually blossoms into a special friendship. 
For Quaid and Grace, tho roles they 

Too much talk keeps 'Coach Carter' from win 
By llRANDON HOLLIHAN 
Scent· Critic 
There's a nnw n~ason to hate movie trailnrs. ollwr than llw fad that they all look tlw sanw and cirwmas run thou­sands of tlwrn bnl'orn tlw adual f'ilm tu~gins. They makn it inrn~asingly hard to takn SamuPI 1.. .Jackson seriously. For nxampl1~. look at how lw's fnatw·nd in tho trailnrs for 'Basie' and thn nnw 'XXX' film. lin's rnac·lwd a point in his can~1·r that il' a youngnr main talknd smack to him. you would nxped that hn could pull out a shotgun, start. raving about how gn~at tlw Bible is, and no on!' in t.lw audinr11:n would bat an eye, as lw did in "Pulp Jo'idion." 
That's l111~ gl'l~atnst problnm with .Jackson's I'IH~nnt film repnrtoirn: going to <Hll' ol' his 
2.3 GP!\. he required in a eontra.ct signed by all the players at the start of the snason. The message to his players: regardless of what you've bnen told by mndia..friends or evon family, tlwro is a futuro al'tnr baskntball, and you nned to takn advantage of it. The message· inevitably draws backfire from the nntirn Hichmond community, but even­tually tlw coach wins thn rnspeet of his players. 
Much of this film consists of .Jackson lneturing. lie throws out statistics rngarding academic achievements amongst African Americans, he brow­heals his players when they become too co1:ky on the court, and ho ovfHl has a straight one-on-one lecture narly on in tho film with his son (Hobnrt Hi'chard). Tho lncturing is purposnf'ul, as it trios to show what tho roal-life Cartor is like, 
but much of it is 
movif's to !war tedious. It's a big
Coach Carter 
what hn is going problem because to say, ratlwr than 
it isn't rnally what what lw is going the audience 
t.o do. In this came for. We ins tan r1~, "Coarh want to see the 
Director: Thomas Carter
Cartnr" is a gn~at young, cocky ath­
Writer: Mark Schwahn 
l'il for tho star; letes transformed 
Starring: Samuel L. Jackson, Rob Brown, 
d1~spitn dncnnt into a work force 
l~obert Gonzales and Ashanti
amounts of bas­that looks distine­
knthall l'oota){n, its stanc1~ is "l1~ss action, more talk." 
Thn film is a biopie of eoach Ken Cartnr of tho Hichmond lligh School haskntball team, whieh is based in California's Bay /\rna. In 1999 hn made national lwadlinns by padlocking the sdwol gym and canenling numerous praetkns and games because, despite a perfect 13-0 record at tho time, many of the playnrs did not meet the minimum 
tivoly differont from tho film's beginning, but tlw col­lective are of thn character ensemble doosn't extend far enough to make this happen. 
Part of that problnm is attributed to all the negligible side plots that. oecur in the l'ilm, such as the team's trip to a house party in the wealthy suburbs al'ter a big win, one player's (Hobert Gonzales) connections to a local gang play in the film parallel their film careers. Quaid is the veteran, having appeared in over fifty films sinco 1975. Moviegoers have known of his talents for some time now, and they shouldn't be disappointed by his performance here. 
Topher Grace is the newcomer, the young punk on the scene whose skill as an actor is only beginning to be recog­nized by the majority of Hollywood. 
"In Good Company" is his sixth film since playing Erie Fornman on the TV serios "That 70s Show." llis aeting in this film is superb and he develops a wonderful chemistry with Quaid, play­ing off their father/son dynamic. 

Despite a couple of stale moments with obvi.ous dialogue, "In Good Company" is a well-writtnn film that is genuinely funny. 
Contact Chris Kepner at ckepner@nd.edu 

and another player (Hob Brown, "Finding Forrestor") trying to eope with a relationship with his pregnant girl­friend (i\.shanti in her film debuU. It's right of the film to depict how these playnrs live, but is it crucial to the heart of the story? Does it help movo the lilm along? 
The answer is that it doesn't, consid­ering that 'Coach Carter' is about a half hour too long (136 minutes total). If it had cut out a lot of t.he unnecessary nuiT, it could have benn another strong sports film. 

Sno "Coaeh Carter" if you enjoy Jackson's style of work, but dross com­fortably for tho long haul. 
Contact Brandon Hollihan at bholliha@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, January 18, 2005 
NBA 

-

Bulls vvin seventh straight game, edging Knicks 88-86 
Raptors get first road win in franchise history against Timberwolves, relying on Donyell Marshall's big game 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -The words came out of Kirk Jlinrich's mouth almost matter-of-factly, words that no member of the Chicago Bulls would have dared utter for the better part of the past decade. 
"We're a good team," Hinrieh said, and there was no disput­ing him after the Bulls ran their winning streak to seven games Monday with an 88-86 victory over the reeling New York Knicks. 
Ben Gordon scored on a driv­ing 8-footer with one-tenth of a second remaining for the game-winning points, a basket that prompted coach Scott Skiles to leap into the arms of Tyson Chandler and Eddy Curry. 
And after the Knicks botched their last attempt and the final buzzer sounded, the smiles adorning th11 Bulls were a stark contrast to the long-faced frowns draping the Knicks. 
"In this stretch we're just finding ways to win. Last year we were finding ways to lose," Hinrich said, "Hopefully, that's the sign of a good team." 
A good team, it was pointed out, is something the Bulls have been the antithesis of since the end of the 1990s, when Michael Jordan left and the franchise sank into an extended period of rebuilding. 
Nobody would have dared call the Bulls good in late November, either, after they opened the season 0-9, but the seven straight victories have 

< left Chicago just one game below .500. "About a month and a half ago I thought we had the mak­ings to be a good team, then we put together a couple of good stretches," Hinrich said. "We have been playing like a good team, we're No. 1 in the league in defensive field goal percentage, and that's a sign of a good team." Seven straight wins repre­sents the longest winning streak for Chicago since the 1 997-98 team won 13 in a row. A member of that team, Scottie Pippen, was in the front row at Madison Square Garden to get a 11rsthand look at this edition of the Bulls. Luol Deng led Chicago with 19 points, Ilinrich had 14 points, 13 rebounds and eight assists and Andres Noeioni came off the bench to add 13 points and 11 rebounds. Stephon Marbury had 25 points to lead the Knicks, who lost for the seventh time in eight games and relinquished sole possession of 11rst place in the Atlantic Division. · "It hurts to lose this game. We had them, and to lose at 

CLASSIFIEDS 
the end hurts," the Knicks' Jamal Crawford said. 
Raptors 100, Timberwolves 
91 
Donyell Marshall's sharp shooting made the Toronto Haptors a winner in Minnesota for the first time in franchise history. 
Marshall made six 3-pointers and scored 22 points, leading the Haptors to a victory over the Timberwolves. 
The Haptors beat the Timberwolves for the 11rst time in Minnesota since entering the NBA in the 1995-96 season. They were 0-8 before Marshall, the Timberwolves' first-round draft choice in 1994, shot 6-of­8 from 3-point range and scored 11 points in the fourth quarter to hold off a late rally by the Wolves. Toronto snapped an 11-game road los­ing streak overall, one shy of the elub record. 
"1 just fell into a groove early, and even when I missed, I still felt good -I didn't miss by much," Marshall said. 
Hafer Alston and Chris Bosh worked the pick-and-roll to near perfection as the Raptors raced out to an 18-point 11rst­half lead. Alston scored 18 points and had 15 assists, while Bosh posted 19 points and 11 rebounds for Toronto, which has won four of five. 
"I want Rafer to frame that stat sheet," Haptors coach Sam Mitchell said. "Fifteen assists, two turnovers, but only three 3-point attempts. That's the thing we're trying to get him to understand. He's getting better at it. He's listening. As quick as he is, he has to keep pressure on the defense by turning that corner. When he turns that corner, most of the time good things happen." 
Wally Szczerbiak led the Timberwolves with 25 points, and Kevin Garnett added 20 points and 14 boards for Minnesota, which fell to 3-7 in January. 
"When you're going through difficult times, you have to always keep in mind that· things could be a lot worse," Garnett said. "At this point, patience is the only thing we have to grasp. We've just got to continue to work hard." 
Minnesota jumped out to a 13-6 lead, but the Haptors surged ahead with a 24-7 run. Bosh and Alston combined to shoot 9-for-1 0 in the first quar­ter as Minnesota struggled to shut down Toronto's piek-and­roll offense. 
Toronto built its lead to as much as 18 in the second quar­ter thanks to a major disparity in 3-point shooting. The Timberwolves missed their first 12 3-pointers and were 0-for-7 from behind the arc in the 11rst half, while the Haptors hit 6-of-clearly of'f their game. you and that's what they did to 8 3s in the first half. "When you apparently shoot us," he said. 

"That was the difference in as poorly as those two did, you Prince deflected praise for the game," Szczerbiak said. have to say it was just a bad his best offensive game in the "We were 1-for-16 on our 3s night," Popovich said. "It was NBA as if he were swatting a and they were 10-for-20. not just that our defense held shot with his long, lanky arms. That's a tough discrepancy to them to that." "1 de11nitely have to credit my overcome." But Arenas disagreed, credit­teammates, especially the guys Spurs 101, Wizards 73 ing the Spurs' defense for inside," said Prince, who 
Tony Parker and the San keeping the Wizards out of scored on an assortment of Antonio Spurs figured out a their offensive rhythm. dunks, runners, mid-range way to slow down the "Their rotation is so great," jumpers and a 3-pointer. Washington Wizards' high­he said. "They didn't let us do "When they play that way, it scoring offense. anything tonight. We couldn't just opens things up." 
Devin Brown scored 24 get a good look or an easy Prince has averaged 20.3 points, Parker added 23 and look." points in his last three games, the Spurs stifled Washington's The Wizards played without about eight above his average, top scorers in a vietory, snap­Larry Hughes, sidelined with a and made the game-winning ping the Wizards' seven-game broken right thumb sustained shot Saturday against winning streak. Saturday in a win over Philadelphia. In 11ve of the last 
The Spurs, who have the best Phoenix. San Antonio's Manu 13 games, the third-year play­defense in the NBA, limited the Ginobili missed the game with er known for his defense has Wizards to season lows for a thigh bruise. scored at least 18 points. points and shooting percentage "We always said that Gilbert "The last three weeks, he has 
(31.8 percent}. Washington had and Larry play so well togeth­had a stretch as good as any scored 100 or more points in er," Washington coach Eddie young player is going to have," its last 10 games. Jordan said. "I don't know if Pistons coach Larry Brown 
Gilbert Arenas, Washington's (Hughes' absence) affected said. high scorer at 23.2 points per Gilbert. He didn't shoot the ball The Pistons outrebounded game, missed all 12 of his well, but I thought he tried to Phoenix 57-41 and had 13 shots from the floor and fin­run the team the right way." more offensive rebounds. ished with three points, while Pistons 94, Suns 80 "That was huge," Brown Antawn Jamison (20.3 ppg) The Phoenix Suns have lost said. scored six points on 2-for-8 as many games in the past Kings 86, Clippers 83 shooting. week as they had all season. Cuttino Mobley is fitting in 
"I just tried to stay .in front of Tayshaun Prince scored a well with the Sacramento him the whole game and stay career-high 26 points to lead Kings. in his face," said Parker, who the Detroit Pistons past slump­Acquired last week in a trade guarded Arenas. ing Phoenix on, handing the that sent Doug Christie to 
San Antonio jumped out to a NBA-leading Suns their fourth Orlando, Mobley hit a 3-pointer 21-2 lead, and the Wizards straight loss. with 59.6 seconds left to help were not able to get any closer After opening the season 31-thn Kings beat the Los Angeles than 13 points in their 11rst loss 4, Phoenix went 0-4 on its road Clippers. Mobley finished with of 2005. trip. 19 points in his second game 
"We lost a tough game in "It's time to go home," coach with Sacramento. Houston [on Saturday]," said Mike D'Antoni said. "It has "lie gives us another option Brown, who had scored only 13 been a tough road trip. out there that's going to really points in his past five games. Obviously, they beat us on the help us," Kings coach Hick "We just had to bring more boards; beat us all day; beat us Adelman said. "We felt that we juice tonight, more focus. up; beat us in anything you needed to make a change, and That's what we did." want to talk about. we had a chance to get a 
Spurs coach Gregg Popovich "When you are a mid­proven scorer who was praised his team's defense, dleweight and they are a younger than Doug was." which gives up an average of heavyweight and you cannot Chris Webber led the Kings 
85.3 points per game, but said run around the ring, they are with 23 points and 14 Arenas and Jamison were going to catch you and pound rebounds. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 F.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

2-6 bedroom homes for 05-06  1 bdrm apt 1/2 mile to NO.  Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5  
Walking distance from NO.  $550/mo.  Days $299! Includes Meals,  
WANTED  FoR  RENT  MMMRentals.com 532-1408  Laundry incl. Call 283-0325  PERSONALS  Celebrity Parties! Panama City, Daytona $159!  
Reliable childcare needed for 2 chi I- New 4-bdrm,3-bath home.Avail  House for rent across from NO.  Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco,  
dren. Schedule varies,3 days/week  8/05.  Avail now and for 2005-06 school  Spring Break 2005 with STS,  Nassau $499!  
10:30-5:00 (8:00-5:00 non school  Cathedral ceiling, fireplace, deluxe  yr. Call 232-0875.  America s #1 Student Tour  Award Winning Company!  
days),which includes school pick  kitchen, skylights, 2-car garage,  HOUSES FOR RENT:  Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call  SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678­ 
up. Reliable vehicle,proven driving  family room, 10x20 deck.  3 bdrm north of campus, ample  3-5 BEDROOM HOMES.  for group discounts.  6386  
record,and child care history are  Safe area.  parking, partially furnished, many  GOOD CONDITION  Info/Reservations  
required. Call Amy,287-5152 after  Call574-232-4527 or 269-683­ extras.  CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  1-800-648-4849  BOSOX FANS check out newyork­ 
6pm.  5038.  Call 412-4 78-5192 for the details.  Call Sean 532-1895.  www.ststravel.com  chokees.net  

Tuesday, January 18, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 13 
-·--· ··----·--=-===================~-======================================================================= 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 

Stars succeed in Australian Open first-round n1atches ­

Associated Press 
MI\LBOUBNI\, Australia -llis hip didn't botlwr him much, ami noitlwr did his opporwnL 
i\ndro i\gassi, rocovnring from a torn tmulon in his right hip that almost knpl him out of thn Australian Opnn, eoastnd past qualiliPr DiPtl1r Kindlmann 6-4. (,-:{, h-0 Monday. That rnov11d i\gassi into a s11cond-round matd1 with anothnr Corman, Hairwr Sdnwttlnr -tlw man hn lwat lwm in tlw 2003 linal. 
"Thnn1's t1X(HH'.tation -high nxp11dation -for nw to rwgoti­atl1 this stago of it and gnt bnt­tnr," i\gassi said. 
Otlwr LiLlo 1:ontondors also rar.Pd through tho f'irst round Monday. 
Top-rank11d Bognr Fodoror won tlw lirsl 12 points and hit 54 winrwrs on rout11 to a 6-1. (J-1, 6­2 win ovnr ailing Fronehman htbrico Santoro. No. 4 Marat Salin had two long strnaks-one of I(, points and ono of II -in his h-0, (,-2, l1-l win ovnr 17­yt1ar-old S11rbian Novak I >jokovie. 
In hnr f'irst match back at M11lhourrw l'ark sinen winning in 2003, Snn1na Williams was intnnl on intimidating any oppo­rwnls watching hnr h-1. (>-1 vie­tory ovnr Camillo Pin. 
MPanwhiln, two llussians who nnwrgnd to win Grand Slam titlns in 2004 -thn first s1mson sinr.11 I !J!JH in whieh neithl1l' Williams sistnr won a major ­also wnrn impn1ssive. 
Jo'ourth-snndnd Maria Sharapova. who boat Sornna in last yoar's Wimbledon final, o1wrwd with a 6-3, (>-I win ovor Snsil Karatantdwva of Bulgaria, and U.S. Opnn champ Svetlana Kuznotsova, soodml lif'th. boat i\moril:an Jossica Kirkland 6-1, h-1. 
In Belgium later Monday, Kuzrwtsova was idontil'iod by Bnlgian mgional sports ministor Claud!\ Enrdnknns as having tost­11d positiv11 for the bannnd stimu­lant ophodrinn during an exhibi­tion tournamnnt tlwre last month. 
Fornwr Fronch Opnn eharnpi­on Carlos Moya was tlw biggost playm· upset on the oponing day, losing to follow Spaniard Guillnrrno (;arda-Lopnz 7-5, 6-:{, :~-6. 6-3. 
But most attention was on 

i\gassi, who hurt himself last week against Andy Hoddiek in an exhibition tournament and was in doubt for tho Open until Sunday. 
Tho 34-year-old i\gassi, trim­mer and stronger than he's been in a decadn, was rnady to push tho pain barri11r, if rwoded. But. he didn't nond to oxtnnd himsolf on Hod Laver ;\rena, whern he fonts right at horne. 
i\gassi lost only oncn in his last four trips to the Australian Open -a semifinal setbaek last yoar to Sal'in -and most of his matehes have been on Molbourno Park's center court. 
The 1-hour, 38-minute match against Kindlmann was a good workout. and part of a progres­sion to b11 at poak fitness for an expneted quartorlinal showdown with Fodornr. 
"It was grnat to bn on tho eourt for three sots," i\gassi said. "But, again, with anti-inllarnrnatorios and a littlo treatment, I think I ean for sure get myself to 100 percent." 
i\gassi, who has won hall' of his night Grand Slam titles in Molbourno, will nom! to be in top form against Fedornr. Asked if he eould upsnt tho 23-year-old Swiss star in tho quarters, i\gassi said that's furtlwr ahead than lw's looking. 
"To play Hoger means I've beaten throe morn players. so that's something I'd woleome, fi>r surn," i\gassi said. i\nti-inflarn­matories to nase the pain would be part or tho regimen before and after that matehup. 
"Oh, I'm going to have them every day," the American said. "I might havn them overy day the rest of my lifo." 
Federer's win over Santoro was his 22nd in a row, since a loss at the Athens Olympics. 
lin was the first man since Mats Wilander in I !J!J8 to win throe Grand Slam titles in a sin­gle year, and he's hoping to be tho first sinen Pete Sampras to win three consBcutivo majors. 
Sampras added the 1994 Australian Open title to his wins. tho previous year at Wimbledon and the U.S. Open. Federer is in line for the same sequence. 
Hacing to a 5-0 lead against Santoro "sot the tone for the rnst of tho match," said Fodenw. 
"It was a perfect start -I'm 
Open 
AA 
Meeting 6:00p.m. Wednesdays 

Room 300 Health Services Bldg. 
sorry for Fabriee." 
Santoro had a bad rnaction to an injeetion in his right wrist on the eve of the match and strug­gled when Fednrer turned up the · heat. 
"It's as if Hoger was saying to me, 'Hight, that's what I'm ofl'er­ing you today, OK!"' said Santoro, who couldn't really argue. "You got the feeling that in flach of' his matches he just wants to show straight ofT who tho boss is." 
Serena Williams once enjoyed tho same aura in women's tennis that Federer has in tlw men's game. She won four consecutive majors through her Australian Open title two years ago. 
In Monday's opening match on center court, soventh-seeded Williams produeed 27 winners, including some terrific backhand returns. Pin managed only two clean winners and didn't once hold servo. 
The only difficulty Williams encountered in the match was whon hor right shoe f1ew ofT in tho second gamn, but it wasn't much of' a handicap. She put the shoo back on, laced i~ up, and won tho point when it was rnplayed. 
Arter the match, in between talking about fashion and her rocent acting gigs, Williams gave her competition something to 
WTA 





Kuznetsova tests positive 
Drug tests taken by U.S. Open champion reveal Ephedrine use 
Associated Press 
BHUSSELS, Belgium Svetlana Kuznetsova tested positive for the banned stimu­lant ephedrine during an off­season eharity event, a Belgian sports minister s a i d Monday, but WTi\ Tour CEO L a r r y s c () t t doubts the 
U· S · . 0 Pe. 
nKuznetsova 
champwn will be penalized. 
The Hussian was testnd dur­ing tho Dee. I H-19 Women's Tennis Trophy exhibition tournamnnt. in Charleroi, said Claude Eerdeknns, a regional sports minister. Kuznetsova's backup sample hasn't been tested; rules call for two posi­tive samples before punish­ment. 
"Understanding what. I do now. I find it very hard to imagine that there will be anything of' any significance rBsulting from this," Scott told The Associated Pross in a telephone interview from Melbourne, Australia. 
lin said he had tried without success to speak with Eerdekons and eallod the Belgian's announcement "prn­mature, highly irresponsible and damaging to the sport. It's something that could pos­sibly be a common cold reme­dy, and the player might be innocent. Yet he's goiw ahead and publicly taintnd the sport." 
Ephedrine is often con­tained in cold remedies. It also is used in weight-redue­

ing formulas. and some ath­ninth when she won hnr first letes take it to get a short­Grand Slam title in term energy burst and to September, becoming the inerease alertness. Use of third straight Hussian major banned stimulants can draw a champion. Iter father coached suspension of up two years, J'ive Olympic and world but the penally can be eyeling champions, ineluding reduced or waived if the ath­Kuznetsova's rnothor, and lwr 
lete  was  using  brother  won  a  
cold medicine. On Saturday, Eerdekens said  "We saw it was ephedrine and we  silver in eyding in tho 1996 Atlanta Camns.  
someone  at  the  saw it was an  Tho  test  at  
four-person Charleroi event  illegal product. "  last month's oxhibition event  
had tested posi­ was carried out  
tive but did  not  Claude Eerdekens  by  regional  
identify the play­ regional sports  Bnlgian author­ 
er or substance.  minister  itios  and  was  

On Monday, he issued a state­ment saying it. was Kuznetsova. 
"We saw it was ephodrinn and we saw it was an illegal product," lw said by teln­phono from his homo in Andenne. Because the sneond sample's result isn't known, Eordekens said, "We do not want to prejudge hnr inno­cence." 
The minister told thn AI' that the report he received did not mention that Kuzm~tsova asked for a mnd­ical exemption for ephedrine. 
Kuznetsova, 19, is seeded fifth in the Australian Open and beat Jessica Kirkland of tho United States 6-1, 6-1 in the first round Monday. 
"I've nevnr used any drugs to improve my performance," she said after that victory ­and before Eerdokens idtmti­fiod her. "I have not been notil'ind of any positive Lost, and I think it is unfair that it's come out tho way it did." 
She also noted she was test­ed 11 times last season. Kuznetsova was seeded 
not t:omrnis­
siorwd by thn World i\nti-l>oping i\gnnt:y, tho WTi\ Tour or the lntnrnational Tnnnis Fndnration. 
Enrdnkens said the regional Francophone govnrnmnnt of Belgium had no authority to imposo· sani:tions and would loave it up to tho sport's gov­nrning bodies. 
Thorn never has bonn a doping ofTt~nsn for a perform­anen-nnhaneing drug in WTi\ Tour history. Two playnrs wnrn sanctiorwd for cafTnirw. orw for cocairw -none sinen 2002. 
"Thnrn arn a fnw countrins in the world. not many, wlwrn tho governnwnt kind of holds thornsnlvns out and says, 'Hngardlnss of your sport's anti-doping program, wo have tho right to test whenever and wherever wn want.' This easo highlights tlw problems with that." Scott told the i\P. 
"It just shows you the kind of damagn a politician can do whenever thny usn anti-dop­ing fm grandstanding or polit­ical usn in thn homo country." 


think about. 

French Open champion Anastasia Myskina, the first of three eonseeutive Hussian major winners last season, says Smnna and Von us Williams no longnr have the fear factor in thnir favor. But Serena's not con­vinced. 
"I don't think thow's a player 
out thoro who would son their name against mino lin t.lw draw) and go, "Oh. my God, yns!" Williams said. 
Sho doesn't go looking f'or any feedback. 
'.'1 don't hang out-I don't know," sho said. "I font that whnn I'm at my best, no ono can beat mo. That's just tlw bottom linn." 


page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, January 18, 2005 
MLB 
Soriano agrees to $7.5 n1illion extension with Rangers 


Marlins' pitcher Burnett returns vvith one-year contract 
Associated Press June and went 7-6 with a 3.68 bonuses. He's hoping to come season. agreement, Beckett and the ERA in 120 innings. His career back this year from recon­The only Florida player still Marlins will exchange propos­MIAMI -Florida Marlins record is 37-38. structive elbow surgery that in arbitration is right-hander als Tuesday, and a hearing will 
right-hander A.J. Burnett Last year, Burnett was paid forced him to miss all of last Josh Beckett. Barring an be held in February. 
Julio Franco re-signs with Braves at age 46 


Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas-Alfonso Soriano agrned to a $7.5 million, one-year contract with the Texas Rangers, who avoided salary arbitration with the All-Star sec­ond baseman they insist they aren't trying to trade. 
"We've never been looking to move him. If there was an opportunity to make the club better, of course you have to lis­ten," Hangers assistant general manager Jon Daniels said Monday. "It was rumors and speculation, not reality." 
Several teams have inquired about a trade for Soriano, but none of the talk has been serious enough to intrigue the Rangers. 
Soriano came to Texas last February in the trade that sent Alex Rodriguez to the New York Yankees. While he had an AL­high 23 errors, Soriano hit .280 with 28 homers and 91 HBis before missing the final 16 games last season with a strained left hamstring. 
"I think he's going to have a big year for us," manager Buck Showalter said. "We can forget about a lot of the adjustments he had to make [last season]. ... He's very happy here." 
Soriano is getting a $2.1 mil­lion raise from last year, when the Rangers payroll was around $63 million. The second base­man will be eligible for free agency after the 2006 season. 
Owner Tom Hicks wants the payroll to remain in the same range as last year, and has no plans to again spend more than $100 million. His desire, and the team's interest in free agent Carlos Delgado, raised specula­tion about Soriano being traded. 
"Regardless of who it is, we'll listen to all things," Showalter said. "But if it doesn't work for the Rangers, we're not going there." 
Texas has two players remain­ing in arbitration: outfielder Gary Matthews Jr. and right­hander Carlos Almanzar. Players and teams are set to swap pro­posed salaries Tuesday, with hearings to be scheduled for next month. 
Daniels said the Rangers talked to Soriano's agents only briefly about a multiyear deal, but that the primary goal was to get a deal in place to avoid arbi­tration. He said talks about a more presence in the area full of prospects. I I art has been there since last week, and the rest of the group is to leave Texas on Tuesday. 
The Hangers are also sched­uled to meet with Delgado, who is from Puerto Hico, later this week. Texas is among at least five teams pursuing the left­handed slugger, who hit at least 30 homers in each of the past eight seasons for Toronto. 
"I think everybody is intrigued," Showalter said. "Look at all the difTerent risks in the free-agent market; he's a pretty steady guy. We're talking to him. A guy like him, there is a lot of competition." 
The Florida Marlins are believed to have offered a $35 million, three-year deal to Delgado and met with him last weekend. Delgado has also met with New York Mets executives in his native Puerto Rico, and 

longer contract might be dis­Baltimore and Boston have cussed later. expressed inter­Showalter est.
"We've never been 
expects to visit Matthews start­with Soriano when looking to move ed 77 games, had he and other him." a team-high eight Rangers officials, outfield assists including Hicks and hit .275 with
Jon Daniels
and general man­11 homers, the 
Rangers assistant
ager John Hart, second-highest are in the general manager total in his career. Dominican Almanzar was 7-3 Republic as part of with a 3.72 ERA the organization's effort to have in 67 games. 
agreed Monday to a $3.65 mil­lion, one-year contract rather than go to arbitration. 
Helievers Guillermo Mota and Tim Spooneybarger also avoid­ed arbitration by accepting one-year deals. 
The Marlins, meanwhile, are still courting free-agent slugger Carlos Delgado. He and agent David Sloane met Saturday with owner Jeffrey Loria, and Sloane said he plans to talk with team executives again Tuesday. 
Burnett returned from recon­structive elbow surgery last $2.5 million. His new contract allows him to make $150,000 in performance bonuses: $50,000 each for 190, 200 and 210 innings pitched. 
Mota, expected to be the Marlins' closer, agreed to a $2.6 million deal that allows him to earn $275,000 in per­formance bonuses. He received $1,475,000 last year, when he went 9-8 with a 3.07 ERA for Los Angeles and Florida. 
Spooneybarger received $350,000, a raise from $305,000 last year, and can earn $75,000 in performance 
offee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, January 18th 
7:30-9:30 p.m. 

316 Coleman-Morse 
Associated Press 
SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic -Not satisfied with being the oldest active player in the major leagues for the past three seasons, Julio Franco wants to play until he's 50. 
Franco, a 46-year-old first baseman from the Dominican Republic, signed a $1 million, one-year deal last month with the Atlanta Braves for next season -his 21st in the majors. 
"With God's help, I'm going to play in the major leagues until I'm 50 years old," he told The Associated Press in a tele­phone interview Sunday. "It's a goal that I've set for myself. I have the physical and mental strength." 
Franco, who is hitting .344 in the Dominican winter league, also said he wants to end his career with at least 3,000 hits and then become a manager. 
Last season, Franco became the oldest position player in the majors since 57-year-old Minnie Minoso in 1980 -and that was just a pinch-hitting publicity stunt. Franco also became the oldest to hit a grand slam. 
Platooning at first base, Franco had six home runs and 57 RBis, as well as three triples and four stolen bases. lie batted .309 with 99 hits in 125 games and 320 at-bats. 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. *Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
Tuesday, January 18, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
-~_::_::_::---===-=====--~=-===========================================================::___:--=~=~----­
NBA 
Bryant to Iniss at least tvvo Inore vveeks 
Assndated Press 
I.OS ANGI·:LJ•:S -l.aknrs star Kobo Bryant will lm sidn­linnd at lnast two morn wonks with a snvnrnly sprainml right ankln. 
Tnam spoknsman John Blar.k said lwforn tlw l.aknrs facnd t.hn Utah Jazz on Monday night that tlw NBA's snrond­lnading scorPr was nxaminnd narl iPr in tlw day by tnam physidan l>r. Stnw Lombardo and foot. s p n ciaIis t Phi I i p Kwong. 
A CT S(:an eonl"irnwd thoro was no fracture. 
"Kolw will be rn-nvaluatnd in approximatnly one wonk," Black said. "'Ito has madn improvnmnnt. lin still can't put wnight on his right foot." 
Black said tlwrn was no tar­got dat<1 for Bryant's rnturn. 
"Wn'n1 just saying a mini­mum of t.wo wonks," Black said. "Wn'll havn a bnttnr idna rwxt wonk." 
Should Bryant rnturn in two wonks, he'll miss a minimum of six morn gamns and cigh t ovnrall. 
Bryant. hurt in tho first quartnr of Thursday night's victory ovnr Cleveland. was placnd on the injured list Saturday -before the Lakers bnat (;olden State. 
"Wn wnm hoping for far bet­ter, but that's tho way it is in this lnaguo," Lakers coach Hudy Tomjanovich said rngarding Bryant's status. "You can always hopo. I'm not a mndieal guy." 
Tomjanovieh said he spoke with Bryant early Monday. 
"lin said it was still throb­bing," tho coach said, adding Bryant soomnd to bo in good spirits. 
Whon asked what tho l.aknrs do diJTnrently without Bryant. Tomjanovich replied: "Wn just run different plays. Thorn's plays where he's the focal point. Obviously, we're not running a lot ofthmn." 
Lamar Odom and Caron Butlor have picked up the 
slaek  sineo  Bryant  was  
injurnd.  
"It could have been  more  

snrious," Butler said. "II is spirits are high _ it's getting better. Wo're just praying for him, hope he gets better soon." 
Bryant. averaging 27.5 points per game, was injured when he landed on Cleveland 
forward Ira Newble's right foot while going for a rebound under the Cavaliers' basket. 

Rookie Sasah Vujacic started Saturday and Monday in Bryant's guard spot. 

MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 





Frontcourt dominance helps UConn 
Asso~iatcd Press 
I·:AST l!tJTIII•:BFOIW. N . .J. -.Jim Calhoun had a right. to brag about his young front­court. 
"l'nopln likn to say that. we havP tall guys on our front. linP," tlw Connndicut coach said. rnfnrring to sophomorns .losh Boonn and Charlie Villanunva and J"r·nshman lludy Cay. "I liko to say wn havn t.alnntnd. tall guys on our front linn and tonight it shownd." 
Thn th rnn com hinml for 54 points on 21-for-32 shooting, grahhPd 27 rnbounds and blorkPd I 0 shots as llw 16th­rank(HI lluskins lwat Snton llall 77-68 on Monday night. 
Boone was 8-for-8 from the l'inld and had 20 points and night rnbounds. Villanueva had 16 points and 12 rnhounds. (;ay had 18 points and four blocks, one more than eaeh of his follow big nwn. 
Connecticut (11-3, 3-1 Big East) nneded all of that bncausn the lluskins went. 0­for-(, from :~-point. rangn ­nnding a 11 !J-game streak with at lnast. onn 3 -and didn't get mueh from their baekcourt until tho J'inal min­utns. 
Boono, Villanueva and Gay scon1d Connoetieut's J'irst 28 points of tho second half. 
"Not getting outside shots makes it a little tougher but you just have to step up," Boone said. "The outside shots will eorne. It's just a lit­tle slump right now. 
"There's going to be games when they get 50, 60 points. It's just someone else step­ping up and tonight it was the inside guys." 
It was Connecticut's 11th win in the last 12 meetings with Seton llall. which trailed by 15 points in the first half and stayed close despite shooting 36 percent and being outrebounded 46-31. 
Andre Sweet had 22 points for the Pirates (8-7, 0-4), who lost their fourth straight and 
are off to their worst confer­once start since going 0-7 in 1 1)85-86. 
"We knew their game was mostly dictated by the big men. We know they have good guards but tho big men make them go," Seton llall freshman guard Justin Cerasoli said. "We wanted to take thorn out of tho game and make the guards beat us, and still they scored. They are real good players." 
Sweet scored down low to bring the Pirates to 66-63 with 4:13 left. Freshman guard Antonio Kellogg then broke the frontcourt's scoring dominance with a three-point play with 3:47 to go. 

NHL 
NHL and NHLPA -will n1eet 
Agreement not likely as lockout continues 
Associated Press 
NI\W YOHK -For tho first time in more than a month. a group of officials from the Nil I. and the playnrs' assoeiation will meet Wednesday in what could be a last-ditch eJTort to save tho hockey smtson. 
"We think it is appropriatP and hopefully useful to nngago in these discussions at this limo," Ted Saskin, tho union's senior dirnet.or, said Monday. "Wn are not nweting to prns­ent a nnw proposal and rnmain eommittnd to r·na.ching a fair deal that does not ineludn a salary cap." 
Monday marked tho I 24th day of the lockout. So far, the NIIL has rnsisted announcing a drop-dead date in whieh a eol­leetivo bargaining agrenmnnt must be made to save this sea­son. But with CJ50 regular-sea­son games plus this year's All­Star game, already eancolnd, it appears that time is short to mako a dnal. 
Nlll. commissioner Gary Bott.man and players' associa­tion executive director Bob Goodenow, who have butted heads throughout thn proeoss, are expected to sit out this ses­sion. Tho idea to moot in a smaller group was halchnd by players' assoeiation president Trevor Lindon. 
Lindon, Saskin and outside counsel John McCambridgn will rnpresnnt tho playors. Calgary Flamns part ownM llarloy llotehkiss, tho chair­man of tho Nil I :s board of gov­ernors; Bill Daly, the NIIL's chief legal oJTicm; and out.sido eounsnl Bob Batl.orman, will bn present for tho owtwrs. 
Tho N Ill, is not nxpnctc1d to mako a nnw proposal at tho nwoting, oitlwr. 
The sidos have not mot sin(:o Dne. 14 when tho N Ill, rojnetnd the union's proposal -madn 
liV(1 days oarlinr. A countnrol"­fer made by thn lnagun also was rejoctnd hy l.lw players during that session in Toronto. 
The players' association got talks restarted in Deenmlwr. aftnr thrno months or silenco, with a proposal contnrnd on an immndiatn 24-pen:nnt salary rollback on all nxist.ing con­traets. Owners rnjocted that plan and (:ounternd with a salary-cap structured oiTor. 
Tho NIILPA is adamant. that it will nnvnr accnpt a salary cap. Tho union's oiTnr fnat.urPd a luxury-tax and rnV(1ntw­sharing system. B(~ttman has said that. lw has no intnrnst. in a luxury tax. 
During tlw I 0:1-day lockout. that dis r up tn d l h n I1) ') 4 -9 5 s(1 ason, an agrno nw nl was rnae h n d on .Ian . I I . I 1) I) 5 , allowing for a 48-ganw S(mson that began nine days latnr. 
If tlw stmson is wipnd out, it. would mark tlw lirst timn in 8h ynars that tho Stanley Cup wasn't awarded. A 11u npidnm­ie can en led thn 1919 final series between Montreal and Soattln. No North American sports league has lost an entire soason duo to a labor dispute. 
Informatiou Session for the Llnive1·sittt ofNotre Dame's
. 
( 

International Study P1·ognTms 
Study Abroad This Summer! Earn ND credit in: 
~--___.___, Dttblin, Ireland 
Toledo, Spain Plus, ne-vv this summer: Berlin, Germany Rome, Italy Puebla, Mexico (ND EG courses offered!) Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
Wednesday,. January 19. 2005 5:30pm 129 DeBartolo Hall 


APPLICATION DEADLINE IS MARCH 1, 2005 




OUND THE NATION 
page 16 CoMPILED fROM THE QgsERVERs WIRE SERVICEs Tuesday, January 18, 2005 
NBA 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic 
team record perc... lastJO Gn Philadelphia 17-20 .459 4·6 Boston 17·20 .459 5·5 New York 17·20 .459 3·7 ····· · · ··· • · ·• Toronto 15·23 ;395 5~5 2.5 New Jersey 13·24 .351 3-7< 4 
team record perc. Detroit 23-14 .6.22 Cleveland 22-14 .li11 Indiana 18·16 .529 Chicago 17-18 .486 Milwaukee 13·23 .361 

Eastern Conference,Sootheast 
team record p~r¢: lastJO GB .·. Miami 28·11 .718 6~4 Washington 22·14 .611 7<3 Orlando 19·16: .543 4·6 Charlotte 8·26 .235. 1-9 Atlanta 7·28 .20.0 2~8 

team record perc; Seattle 27-9 .750 7-3 Minnesota 19-17 .528 3•7 Portland 15·21 <417 ·· 2•8L Denver 1fiC21 .417 N Utah 13·26 .333 2'"8 
Western Conference, Pacific ·• ··· 
team record perc; lastto ·GB Phoenix ·31·8 .795 6"4 Sacramento 25-11 ;694 a•z LAUkers 20~15 .571 6!'4 LA Clippers 18-19 .486 5·5 Galden Sta1e 11-27 ;289 1~9 

Western Conference,.• $9t.Jthw~~·······.··· .. •••··· team record Perc; 
l~HO ••ija . San Antonio 31·9 .775 
Dallas 23·12 .657 Houston 20·17 .541 Memphis 20·18 .526 NewOrleans 5"32 .135 

MIAA Conference Basketball Standings 
team 
Albion Hape Calvin 
Kalamazoo 
Alma OUvet SAINT MARY'S Tri-State Adrian 



around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Purdue at Michigan State, 7 p.m., ESPN Wake Forest at Florida State, 7 p.m., ESPN2 Mississippi State at Alabama, 9 p.m., ESPN 
POKER 2004 World Series, 12 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 

Associated Press 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. ­Mike Nolan's lineage on and off the field made him an ideal choice to rebuild the San Francisco 49ers. 
The Baltimore defensive coordinator accepted his first head coaching job Monday and began to negotiate a contract to take over the team that had the NFL's worst record last season. 
Nolan, a longtime coordi­nator for four teams, is the son of former 49ers coach Dick Nolan, who led the franchise to its first playoff victory during eight sea­sons in charge of a once-proud franchise that fin­ished this season 2-14 _ tying the worst record in franchise history. 
As his resume attests, the 45-year-old Nolan has plenty of experience and plenty of patience _ and he'll need both in San Francisco. Nolan will replace Dennis Erickson, fired earlier in the month after going 9-23 in two seasons out of the playoffs. 
After wowing 49ers owner John York in an interview Thursday, Nolan flew to York's home in Ohio on Monday to work out a deaL 
"[York] had a good strong list of candidates, 

and they felt that Mike was the perfect candidate to lead us into the future," 49ers spokesman Kirk Reynolds said. 
Nolan, who will be the 15th head coach in 49ers history, didn't return a call to his cell phone seeking comment. York also didn't return calls. 
General manager Terry Donahue was fired along with Erickson, and Nolan will have a hand in picking Donahue's successor. York has said he planned to hire a coach with broad pow­ers, supplemented by a general manager who con­centrates on salary cap issues. 
Nolan is a protege of Dan Reeves, who hired the for­mer Oregon safety for his first NFL job with the Denver Broncos in 1987, then made him one of the youngest coordinators in league history with the 
Giants.  
"It's  a  good fit,"  said  
Giants  defensive  end  
Michael  Strahan,  who  

played his first four NFL seasons under Nolan. "I loved him back then, and I love him stilL l'm glad he's finally getting that oppor­tunity." 
Nolan has coached offense, defense and spe­cial teams during his time in the NFL. 

IN BRIEF 
Suspended Pitt guard
charged with two accounts 
PITTSBURGH Suspended Pittsburgh guard Yuri Demetris faces burglary and simple assault charges after allegedly entering a former girl­friend's apartment twice through a bedroom window and hitting her with a closed fist, university police said Monday. 
Demetris, suspended indefinitely by coach Jamie Dixon after being arrested Sunday, will have a prelimi­nary hearing Thursday. Dixon said Sunday that Demetris would not practice while serving the suspen­sion, but did not mention the player's arrest. 
According to the police report, Demetris twice entered the apart­ment of a 21-year-old woman early Sunday without her permission, each time through a bedroom window. On the second trip, he is alleged to have struck the woman with a closed fist. 
In the report, the woman identified Demetris as a former boyfriend. 
Demetris does not have a listed number and it was not immediately clear whether he had an attorney. Ravens close to hiring Fassel, Neuheisel to run offense 
BALTIMORE -The Baltimore Ravens are expected to hire former Giants coach Jim Fassel as their offen­sive coordinator, and former University of Washington coach Rick Neuheisel as quarterbacks coach, The (Baltimore) Sun reported in Monday's editions. 
Fassel was a senior consultant with the Ravens this season, working pri­marily on the development of second­year quarterback Kyle Boller. Fassel hoped to land another head coaching job but did not receive any solid offers and appears ready to accept the task of improving an offense that finished 31st in the NFL this season. 
The Sun, citing two sources close to the situation, said an agreement had been reached to make Fassel the replacement for Matt Cavanaugh, who resigned under pressure on Jan. 3. 

Robbins arrested, remains in critical condition 
MIAMI BEACH, Fla. -Former Oakland Raiders center Barret Robbins was arrested Monday after being shot over the weekend during a struggle with a police officer investi­gating a burglary at a South Beach office building. 
Miami Beach police spokesman Bobby Hernandez said prosecutors are expected to file formal charges of bat­tery on an officer and trespassing against the former All-Pro, who is best known for disappearing the night before the 2003 Super Bowl. 
Prosecutors were not available for comment Monday because of the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday. 
Robbins was hospitalized in critical but stable condition, according to his agent, Drew Pittman. Hospital officials declined comment. 
Robbins, 31, was shot several times in the torso during a "violent struggle" with a Miami Beach detective Saturday night, Hernandez said. 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·-----­
Tuesday, January 18, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 


Tech 
continued from page 20 
lwnn in nearly every game we've played this year, and thny've also played all t.hnir opporwnts dose. 
"I think this is going to be a ganw bntwnnn two tnams who want to prove there's still a lot of hoekny to be played this year." 
Tonight's mnnting between the lluskies and the Irish will be the first time the two teams have played sinen the 1993-94 snason, when Notrn Damn lost 8-6 on Dee. :w at the c;rnat Lakes Invitational in Dntroit. 
Prior to the 1980-81 season, Notre Damn and Michigan Tech were both members of the Western Collegiate Hockey Association. The Huskies and Irish both moved to the CCHA artnr thn 1981-82 season, but Miehigan Teeh dncidnd to return to the WCHA following the 1983­84 season. 
Notre Dame and Michigan Tech have met live times on neu­tral iee, with the lluskies holding a 3-2-0 advantage in those games. 
The Irish fac~nd CCI lA opponent Ohio State last weekend in a two­game series at the Joyce Center, falling to the Buckeyes 4-1 on Friday and 3-1 on Saturday. Notre Dame currently sits in last placn in the 12-tnam CCIIA with 1 0 points but is only one point out of a tie for eighth place. 
Following this weekend's games against Wisconsin, the Irish close out their season with 10 CCIIA games in a row, so Poulin knows the importance of getting his team's confidence and winning mentality back on track. 
To get back in the win column, the Irish have to score goals, and that might prove diflicult tonight against Michigan Tech goalie Cam Ellsworth. 
Ellsworth stopped 76 of 77 shots in the lluskies' split against Denver, leading his team to a 3-0 shutout of the Pioneers on Jan. 7 and losing a 1-0 heartbreaker on Jan. 8. For his efforts, Ellsworth was named the InsideCollegei Iockey.com Player of the Week for Jan. 10-16. 
The Irish face off at the Resch 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
SMC 
continued from page 20 

Sarah Nowak continuml to swim well by winning the I 00-yard backstroke for tlw Bellns, and Bridget Green l'inished in fourth as both swimmers helped Saint Mary's soeure much nended points. The only other first­place victory for Saint Mary's came in tho meet's final event, the 200-yard froestylo relay. 
In the meet's finale, Saint Mary's swim rners Korte, Tighe, Nowak and Nelis combined for an outstand­ing score of 1:46.72. 
Last year, the Scots defeated the Belles with a score of 134-97 as they posted two last-second vie­tories to clinch the win. But this time around, the Belles wp,re the ones with the late heroics, winning the last two events of' the meet. 
The Belles' strong finish 
on Saturday allowed tlwrn to squeak by Alma by a score of 51-41J for tlwir first confnrnnen win of tho yoar and helped them avengn last year's disappointing loss. 
This weekend's results improved Saint Mary's to 2­3 on the season, whiiP lil"t­ing tlwm out of last place in MlAA. Tlw B1dles now stand in a l"ifth-plaen tie with Albion, who t.lwy have yet to nwet. 
Lisa Balog was n~cognized as the porformer of thP meet at llillsdale after fin­ishing with two fourth-place finishes in both the 1000­yard freestyle and tho 500­yard freostyle. 
The Belles will not swim again until Jan. 28 as they preparn to takp, on third place Kalamazoo College for their second of threo con­secutive away moots. The llornets are 2-1 this ynar. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 
Dame Indoor Opener, the first of three consocutivn homo
Wo01en 
meets. Notre Dame plans on training through tlw first ofcontinued from page 20 

these home meets, as they meter run and second in the continue to build toward tho 60-meter hurdles eompetition. end of the snason. Dospitn the 
Freshman Crysta 

"The competitiveness 
Swayzer fin­ished fifth in was there ... but the the 400, while 
physical performance 
her classmate 

was not."
Domenique Manning fin­ished fourth Scott Winsor in the 60­
Irish head coach 
meter hur­d I c s . 
nwdiocrn wenk­ond perform­ance, Winsor was optimistic. 
"The compnti­tiveness was there on Saturday," he said. "But the physical per­formance was not. As long as 

Sophomore Cassie Gullickson we continue with our training, tied for third in the high jump, the performance will follow." clearing 5-2 1/4. 
The Irish will now shift their Contact Ryan Kiefer at focus to next weekend's Notre rkiefer1@nd.edu 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
Spartans exact revenge against smaller Irish 
Irish, eventually defeating them 25-21.
Special to The Observer But Notre Dame still had plenty of fight Notre Dame's men's club volleyball left in them, and they won the second team traveled to St. Joseph's High School match 27-25 after rallying to push the in Michigan to battle rival Michigan State. game over 25. Playing in front of a packed high school Jump serving from Kevin Overmann, gymnasium, the Irish had a solid effort Drew Williams and Mike Toomey aided but failed to defeat the taller Spartan the Irish throughout the match, but it squad. Notre Dame won the previous wasn't enough to keep them on top as meeting at its horne tournament last Michigan State stole a close third game, semnstcr, and Michigan State was out for 25-22, and fmished o{fGame 4, 25-16. revenge. The series for the year is tied 1-1, which The first game was even until Statn will make for an exciting rubber match went on a 6-0 run to pull away from the when these two teams meet again. 
MEN'S TRACK 

Runners achieve personal bests at Central Michigan 
sonal records at Central Michigan, fin­
By JOHN EVERETT ishing third in the weight-throw with a 
Sports Writer 56-5 1/4 mark (56 feet, 5.25 inches). 
Freshman Michael Schubnrt came in 
In their first meet, the Irish showed second in the shot put, Dave Viken set a signs of promise for the season ahead as personal best in the pole vault and Chris they ran against Michigan State and Staron high-jumped 6-5 1/2 feet, also a Central Miehigan in a non-scoring affair. personal record. 
"It was pretty good for the first one Senior Selim Nurudeen won the 60­back," senior Chip Roberts said. "We meter hurdles in a time of 7.87 seconds had a few personal bests. We've been and ran the 60-meter dash in his fastest training pretty hard for the Big East time of 6.85 seconds, qualifying for the Indoor Championships, and overall this national championships in the process. is starting out better than last year." 
Hoberts was one of those who set per-Contact John Everett at jeverett@nd.edu 


The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, January 18,2005 
TIM SULLIVAN!The Observer Chris Sawyer settles the ball during a 4-0 win over Loyola-Chicago Oct. 3. Sawyer was drafted 24th by the Kansas City Wizards in the MLS draft Friday. 
TIM SULLIVAN!The Observer Kevin Goldthwaite crosses the ball during a 4-0 win over Loyola-Chicago Oct. 3. Goldthwaite was drafted 17th by the San Jose Earthquakes Friday. 
000
"In my case my goalkeep­said. "They've sized. and all." ing coach, Brian Wiese, has been big contributors through "For me that was a positive, Although players at this elite
MLS 

been a huge part their time." not only did they get drafted level are accustomed to hard continued from page 20 of my development as a keep­But their careers aren't the but they also went out with a work on the lleld, the academ­
er," he said. only things Clark takes pride degree in their pocket," he ic challenges were rigorous. 
tion of MLS scouts. The development of the Irish in. said. "It was tough because we 
"At Notre Dame, I think our soccer program was an impor­"They all bring so many lit­"That was, for me, very weren't allowed to drop a program lisl run it as profes­tant goal for Stewart during tle different things, that's important. ... There's nothing elass," Goldthwaite said. "Our sionally as possible," his four years with the Irish, something -that Notre Dame better than getting paid for a goal was always to be able to Goldthwaite said. "In that which also marked Clark's helps them really grow up," he game you like, [but] it's get out a semester early." aspect it prepares us to go first four years as head coach said. "The school teaches tremendously reassuring to The three will train on cam­
00. 

to a professional team." at Notre them, know they've got a good solid pus to prepare for their first lie added that the quality of Dame. g i v e s degree in their back pocket." preseason as professionals.
"They all bring so many little
players in the Irish system "This them an Graduating early, especially "This is a great place, I allowed them to maintain a program different things ... Notre Dame educa­with Notre Dame's rigorous think they really just don't high level of play, even in h a s tion but I academic requirements and want to leave Notre Dame,"
helps them really grow. The
practices. c o m e think it the time commitment needed Clark said. "They're coming
school teaches them, gives them 
"The players on the team, a n d g i v e s to be a varsity athlete, was an up to prepare themselves for those guys all being such good done a an education, but I think it gives them a impressive accomplishment going into camp." players, playing with them day c o m -lot more for the players. They are also role models
them a lot more than an 
in and day out helps also," he p l e t e than an "All three of them graduated for another generation of
education. They grow up as
said. 1 8 0 educa­in three and a half years," players who could look to play Stewart pointed out that thanks people." t i o n . Clark said. "One of the great at the professional level. Clark and assistants Mike to all the T h e y things that they were able to However, for now the three Avery and Brian Wiese have guys, the grow up get drafted but also graduate former Irish standouts are
Bobby Clarke 
been important in developing N o t r e as peo­early, and that means they can enjoying the fulfillment of a
Irish head coach 
the talents of this year's draft­Dame ple. join their respective teams lifelong dream and the prom­ed players. family," They'll and not have to worry about ise of an exciting future. 
"They've been tremendous he said. "They took it to the go out into the world aware of any more studies." "It's absolutely amazing," help [to mel as a player and as next level -every year we how lucky they've been and a Goldthwaite said Notre Sawyer said. "This was obvi­a person," he said. "The want to take it to the next lot of the pluses they've had Dame offered the academic ously a goal of mine ever since things I've learned here as a level as a team." going for them in their lives." support necessary for the ath­I started playing soccer -it's person [as well as soccer] Clark knows that the mem­Academically, Stewart, letes to be able to graduate sort of one of your dreams and skills." bers of his first Notre Dame Goldthwaite and Sawyer grad­early. you just want to make the best 
Sawyer, a goalkeeper who recruiting class have done uated in December, a semester "I definitely had a lot of sup­of it." earned All-America honors in special things with the Irish ahead of the senior class, in port, everything we needed," his junior year, called Wiese a program. order to be able to train for he said. "If we were ever in significant influence on his "All three had outstanding the MLS preseason -another trouble academically, we were Contact Kate Gales at career. careers at Notre Dame," he accomplishment Clark empha-always helped out with tutors kgales@nd.edu 

Students 
Fly Cheaper 
spring break, study abroad & more 
Sample roundtrip Student Airfares from South Bend to: 
Washington, D.C.  $124  Mexico City  $288  
NeWYork  $150  London  $327  
Fort Lauderdale ''""$l94  Rome  -$425  
Los Angeles  $208  Sydney $1308  

Visit StudentUniverse.com for cheap student airfares on major airlines to 1,000 destinations across the US and around the world. 
Jack Stewart goes up for a head ball during a 2-1 win over Cal State Fullerton Sept. 12. Stewart was drafted highest out of the three Irish players with the Chicago Fire's 10th overall pick. 

Tuesday, January 18, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 32 Ham or ham-61 Faint 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Yvonne Zima, 16: Kid Rock. 34; Jim
burger

Moulin Rouge 62 Visitors to a jus­Currey, 43; Susanna HolTs, 46 dance 33 Baby talk tice of the peace Ha11py Birthday: You have plenty going for you Ihis year. hul excess may be
7 "That's hardly 35 Bar, at the bar 
the one thing that sets you back. Pulling too much money into somelhing, eating 
63 Part of a drum 
proper" 37 Matchsticks and drinking too much or taking on loo much will all cnd up hcing a burden. If
kit 
you can eontrolthis type of behavior, you will see some fine results by the limc
13 Shoulder adorn-game 
64 Political pundit we reach the end of Ihe year. Your key to success Ihis year will be moderalion.
ment 

39 Strike caller Your numbers are 5, 12, 14, 19, 27,39
Myers15 Riviera resort 40 Overly stylish 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You may feel defeated. II will he dinicull to work 16 Fellow traveler 42 Boot camp fare with others. Take a breather, work by yourself and you will accomplish whalDOWN needs to be done. Ignore what's going on around you. ** 
17 One of a Yule 44 Just manage, 
1 Beany's cartoon TAURUS (April 20-May 20): There is plenly going on. Travel, promotion. 
trio with "out" 

pal following through wilh plans and llnding the success you've been searching for 18 Tees off 45 Superman sans are all within your reach. Take care of legal paperwork.*** 
2 To the left, at 
GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): This is a great day to connecl with people you've 
sea
19 Inscribed stones cape ecently met. Partnerships can develop. and plenty of ideas can be shared. Love 46 Further amend 3 Appointed is evident. but don't let it cost you too much. ****
21 Onetime Ford 
CANCER (June 21-.July 22): Everyone will want something. Be preparcd to
model 48 Droop 4 Junkyard dogs 
say no, especially if it concerns money. You don'l have to give in if you think 22 Be more patient 49 Leaf bisectors 5 C.S.A. state you have a better plan. Present what you've got to otTer. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Travel for business or pleasure will lead to inleresting
than 50 Tony winner 6 Composer 

talks and future deals. Everything will appear to be going well. bul be carcl'ul
Caldwell Rorem
24 Consumer pro-not to let your expenses exceed your budget. ***** tection org. 7 On the heels of VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Someone may not share the information you need
53 One of the 

to take care of family business. Spend time developing one of your many lalents.
Gorgons

27 "Mornings at a Not hard yet 
Money will come in, hut it will also filter out quickly. *** Seven" play-54 Come down 9"_bien!" LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your mind will be on relationships, hut trouble is wright Paul hard brewing and, if you refuse to address issues promptly, you will end up in a more
1oPresident pro 
serious situation than you arc equipped to deal with. ** 
28 Brooklyn or the 55 From east of 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Work hard and it won'l matter whal anyone else 
Bronx, informally Europe 

11 Actress says or thinks. The proof will be in the results you get along lhc way. Your lalenl will be recognized, and this will make someone jealous. ***
29 Dissenting votes 58 CN Tower city Thurman 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): The more you push to turn a small idea into 12 Whole bunch something lucrative, the more acclaim you'll receive. Reward yourself or celebrate ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE your accomplishment with someone you love. *****
14 Antinuclear 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Whal you want and what you get may be two
agreement 
ditferent things. Don'l be too eager to put the pressure on others to perform. It's 15 Use cusswords up to you to do the work yourself and present il today. ** 51 More than AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. II!): There will be plenty going on he hind your hack, 
20 Title of this puz­57 Doctrine 
but that doesn't mean it's a had thing. Someone is probably planning a surprise
zle 38 Help settle eccentric 
for you. Participate in helping others today. ****
59 Moth-eaten 

-:4~7-fl~l!!l • .t-:-+=+:-:-+=f"!"l"!!'!"' 22 Pizazz 41 Metal in surgical 52 Irregularly PISCES (Feh. 19-March 20): Focus on work and avoid personal issues or tools notched 60 Shad delicacy making promises to a group you know little about. You have to do what counts
-:+-::::+:+::-! 23 Play for a sap 
in the presenl and where you know you will gain lhc most. *** -=+=+=+::ci 24 "The Maltese Falcon" actor, For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a Birthday Haby: You are a big lhinker. You like to do things on a grand scale. informally credit card, 1-800-814-5554. You are determined, dedicated and a little hit stubborn. You arc a leader and a loyal friend. You always have good intcnlions.
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
25 Babbling water 
~~::+-:~+.;+:+::-! 26 Trailblazer Check out Eufienia's Web sites at a,\'lroadl'ice.com and euMeniala.,·t.cmll.Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
Daniel 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 28 vivant 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young
-=+-::+::+.~

--L_.__,___. 29 Makes out solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 
I'D LIKE TO PROMOTE YOU, BUT THE LOWEST  RAISES ARE CAPPED AT 5%, SO THERE'S  SO I PLAN TO HIRE SOMEONE FROM THE  
SALARY BAND FOR THE NEXT LEVEL IS 20% HIGHER THAN YOUR  NO WAY TO GIVE YOU THE PROMOTION.  OUTSIDE THAT YOU CAN TRAIN TO BE YOUR SUPERVISOR.  
CURRENT PAY.  

CHARLES SCHULZ

PEANUTS 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
HURTT 

[ J I (] 
C>2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
LEXIE 
j

[] [ I I 
WHAT INNING ()I() THE:Y PA?? THE: BOTTLE AROUND? 
tREFIHE j

J r I I

1 www.jumble.com 
FRIPOT 
j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 

rI I J"[ I I I I ]" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

-
I 
Jumbles: PIECE MINUS NOUGAT BANISH Yesterday's Answer: This can curl your hair at a beauty salon ­GOSSIP 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name __________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City ____________ State _______ Zip_______ 
r­
t 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, January 18, 2005 
page 20 
MEN's SoccER 

MLS teams. draft three Irish players 
Goldthwaite, Sawyer and Stewart go in first two rounds 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 
ll's not unusual for children to imagine thmnselves growing up to be professional athletes. But to succeed at that most competitive level, it takes tal­ent, dedication and hard work. Only the best will be paid to perform at the sports they

-
love. 
On Friday, Jack Stewart, Kevin Goldthwaite and Chris Sawyer proved they belong at 

that level. The three captains from the 2004 Irish soccer squad were selected in the first two rounds of America's MLS draft. Their dream of pro­fessional soccer has become a reality. 
"It's still so surreal," said Stewart, who was picked 1Oth overall by the Chicago Fire. "It's 
1ike Y0 u r 
Goldthwaite 
dream is finally coming true. I wanted to be in Chicago ... I'm just stoked out of my mind to be there right now and living my dream." 
Goldthwaite, who was select­

. ed 17th overall by the San Jose Earthquakes, echoed similar sentiments. "Growing up we always watched soccer, you're always playing sports dreaming one day that you could actually be in their shoes," he said. "Now that it's 

the reality it Sawyerobviously feels great." 
Chris Sawyer, the 24th pick by Kansas City, will join former Irish teammate Justin Detter with the Wizards. 

"He was my roommate soph­omore year, so we're very good friends," Sawyer said. "It's great to be going into a team where you can get a feel for what life is like as a profes­sional soccer player." 
The three players were freshmen in coach Bobby Clark's inau­gural season with the Irish. It is the 


Stewart

first time in school history that three Notre Dame soccer players were chosen in the draft, setting an impressive precedent by going in the first two rounds. 
HOCKEY 

Irish welcome struggling Huskies 
Lozvly Michigan Tech opens three-game, non-conference stretch 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
With the kind of season Notre Dame is having, three games in l"ive nights might be just the kind of boost the Irish need heading into the final half of the CCHA season. 
The Irish (5-13-5) kick off a three-game non-conference stretch of games tonight, travel­ing to Green Bay, Wis., to face Michigan Tech (2-17-1 ). Notre Dame will finish that stretch with a two-game series against Wisconsin this weekend. 
The Irish go into tonight's game desperate for a win. Notre Dame has not won a game since its last non-confer­ence match, a 2-1 victory over Hensselaer on Jan. 2. 
Since that win, Notre Dame has played four CCIIA games, collecting a 0-3-1 record. Irish 
SMC SWIMMING 

Belles fall to Hillsdale, defeat Alma at meet 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's swimming team was able to walk away with a win against conference rival Alma College this week­end after falling to Hillsdale. The Charges of Hillsdale controlled the meet as they defeated hoth Alma and the Belles by scores of 64-39 and 70-30, respectively. 
Hillsdale dominated by winning eight of the scheduled thirteen events and streaking to five straight wins to open the meet. Neither Saint Mary's nor Alma eould overcome the early deficits, and the Charges improved to 5-2 on the sea­son. 
In the 1000-yard freestyle, Lisa Balog captured fourth place, while Kelly Nelis was able to do the same in the 200-yard freestyle event. The Belles made up valuable ground in the 50-yard freestyle as Nicole Korte finished in second with a time of 26.65, while teammate Kelly Tighe wasn't far behind, recording a third place finish with a seore of 27 .14. 
see SMC/page 17 


coach Dave Poulin said tonight's game should be a good chance · for Notre Dame to step back from the pressures of confer­ence play. 
"I think the timing is good for this game, riot just because it's a non-conference game but also because of where it falls during the week," Poulin said. "Sometimes you can get into a bit of a rut wlwn you have the same routine, so this should help break that up a bit, and it always helps to play a team you're not used to seeing to break up that routine a bit." 
The Huskies come into tonight's game having split their last series to defending national champion Denver on the week­end of Jan. 7-8. 
"Their record is misleading just as much as our record is misleading," Poulin said. "We've 
see TECH/page 17 
"It shows that they're obvi­ously made themselves into top players, to go in the top two rounds of the draft," Clark said. "That's the top 24 players in the country." 
Although Clark will miss three members of one of the nation's toughest defenses, he looks forward to watching his standouts play at another level. 
"I think they'll do well," he said. "They're all first class young men and I look forward to following their careers with great interest." 
Goldthwaite said playing at Notre Dame tremendously helped the three to the atten­
see MLS/page 18 
ND WOMEN'S TRACK 
Team rests, but athletes place high 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Writer 
Irish athletes captured three first-place finishes at the season opening Central Michigan indoor open this weekend, despite with­holding some of their star ath­letes from the meet. 
Sophomore Maryann Erigha won the 60-meter dash with a personal best time of 7.51. Sophomore Okechi Ogbuokiri took the 400-meter crown in · 56.87, and Stacey Cowan won the high jump, clearing 5-6 (live feet, six inches) in the finals. 
The focus for this meet was on Notre Dame's sprinters, jumpers and throwers. When asked if expectations were met in these areas this weekend. jumps/throws coach Scott Winsor's response was simple. 
"No," he said. "But that is partly due to the fact that we trained through this meet. I knew our athletes would not be able to perform at the level they are eapable of. I told them just to go out and give whatever they had." 
Other highlights from the meet included a career-best weight throw by Meghan I lorn of 49-11 3/4, earning lmr fourth place to go along with her second place performance in shot put. 
Tiffany Gunn also had a solid nwnt; finishing fourth in the 400­
see WOMEN/page 17 

MlB 

NCAA BASKETBAll 
NBA 

MEN'S TRACK
1\!Hl 
MEN'S \fOllEYBAU 

LLI Co) Soriano remains a Bryant sidelined Connecticut 77 NHL and NHLPA Irish set marks at 
Taller Michigan z Ranger 
Seton Hall 68 for two weeks schedule meeting Central Michigan State triumphs 
::5 

Alfonso Soriano Josh Boone shot 8-for-The Lakers star will NHL and players' Notre Dame compet-The Spartans tied the
~ 

signed a $7.5 million 8 from the field and sit out for two weeks association officials will ed in a non-scoring season series at 1-1 with
ca:: 

extension to stay in 
scored 20 points to lead with a severely sprained meet Wednesday. 
affair over the weekend. 
a win this weekend. ti Texas. 
his Huskies to victory. 
right ankle. 
page 15page 15 page 17 page 17page 15 

page 15 





