
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND graduates: from NROTC to Iraq occupancy 
By KATE ANTONACCI A<Sociatt· N<'WS Editor 
Captain .John McCurty flew 200 milns from his Al-Asad Airbase in Wnstnrn Iraq to thn Forward Aerial Hnf'ul'ling Point (FAHI') Kornan Village in tlw AI-Anbar provincn ol' Iraq for till~ s0 pt. l ] p r 0 Ill 0 t i 0 Il 0 r J 0 0 Cagliardi to the rank ol' 1st Linutnnant ol' Marirws. 
Harh ofTienr gots to choose his or hnr promoting officer, as long as tho individual is at lnast orw rank higher than tho pnrson being promoted, c;agliardi said. 
For Clagliardi, a 200] Notre Damn graduato, tlw choicn was simple. lin rhosn Me<lurty, a 1974 graduato ol' t.IHJ Univnrsity also s1~rving ovnrseas, to pin on his now silvor bars -exactly two yoars af'tl~r (lagliardi's own rather Captain McGurty is an officer in the Unitnd States Navy, so my promotion was unique in that you do not often see inter-service promotion cere­monies," Gagliardi said. 
pinnnd  on  his gold bars in Wash ing­ 
ton, 11.<:.  
"I  am  a  Marinn Corps Officer and  

Gagliardi met McGurty, an emer­gency medical physician in the 4th Marine Air Wing in the Reservn, through McGurty's youngest daughter, Katie. Gagliardi was in the Naval Hesnrve Officers' Training Corps (NHOTC) program at Notre Dame with Katie McGurty, almost three years before the two men were deployed to the samo area of operations in Western Iraq. 
"Captain MeGurty and I romained elose over tho next few years and he remains_ to this day someone I greatly respect and was proud to have as my promoting ort1cor," Gagliardi said. "It was definitely a hugH coincidence, however, that we both happen to deploy to the same [Area of Oper­
see IRAQ/page 4 

AlllanceND board member Stacey Williams wears the "Gay? Ane by Me" shirt as an effort to raise awareness on campus. 
Scholars address Irish language role 
By PETER NINNEMAN News Writer 
Six distinguislwd scholars will prosent a conference on tho Irish language's role in academia today in the Ilosburgh Auditorium. 
"Why Irish?"-a forum hostod by the Departmnnt of Irish Language and Literature -will bring together interna­tionally nmowned scholars from the fields of comparative literature, medieval studies, linguistics, eontmnporary lit­eraturn, cultural studies and Indo-European poetics. The scholars will discuss how the language has benefited their rosoarch and the role it plays in thnir discipline. 
"It focuses attention on the role, function and contribu­tions of Irish language and lit­erature in the North American university system," said Professor Brian 6 Conchubhair, a Fellow of the Keough Institute for Irish Studies. 
Judging from registration for the ali-day event, atten­dance is expected to be strong. 6 Conchubhair attrib­utes his optimism for student turnout to the rising number of' studonts taking Irish or Irish Studies as a minor at Notre Dame. 
Given that the eonference is on a class day, 6 Conchubhair said students am welcome to 
see IRISH/page 8 

Photo Courtesy of Joe Gagliardi 

Notre Dame graduate 1st Lt. Joe Gagliardi ( '03) poses with one of the Notre Dame flags that decorate his living space in Korean Village In the AI-Anbar province of Iraq. 
Bright orange shirts tnake bold statetnent 
ND students support AllianceND campaign for greater acceptance 
By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Editor 
The "Gay? Fine by Me" tee shirt campaign is two and a half years old, and Notre Dame is no longer No. 1 in the Princeton Review's "Alternative Lifestyles Not an Alternative" category. 
But enough orange shirts were spotted around campus Thursday to show that students are still passionate, and persistent, about promoting acceptance and stimu­lating discussion about gay, les­bian, bisexual, transgender, queer and questioning people (GLBTQ) at Notre Dame. 
"I cannot believe what a great day we've had," said Anna Gomberg, a graduate student and co-coordinator of the unrecog­nized student group AllianceND, which produced the shirts. ''I'm floored. Today was probably the most successful of the tee shirt days in my tenure." 
Since the campaign began in spring 2004, Gomberg said the shirts have become a greater part of Notre Dame's "landscape." She said the primary goal of the cam­paign is to show support for the GLBTQ community at Notre Dame. 
"In a practical way, it provides an easy way for supportive people 
see SHIRTS/page 6 
Pultizer Prize winner tells of bin Laden hunt 
By KATIE STUHLDREHER 
News Writer 
Steve Coli, two-time Pulitzer Prize winning author and jour­nalist, drew upon his journalis­tic endeavors 
in India, p·a kist an. Saudi Arabia and Afghan­istan to explain the importance of the ongo­ing hunt for 

Osama bin Steve Coli Laden and the restructuring of the intelli­gence community after Sept. 11 in the Jordan Auditorium Thursday. 
Coil, a former South Asia bureau chief for The Washington Post and author of' "Ghost Wars: The Secret History of the CIA, Afghanistan and bin Laden, from the Soviet Invasion to September 10, 2001," focused his leeturo on past frustrations and failures of the U.S. intelligence community and misperceptions about bin Laden and the Taliban follow­ing the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. 
"I think that our biggest missed opportunity at the state­craft level was when tho Soviets made it clear that they were leaving Afghanistan and we left as well," Coli said. "I think that this was mere indif­
see LECTURE/ page 6 
Arrest is second in three days 
By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Editor 
St. Joseph County polien made 
an arrest on Notre Dame's earn­
pus Thursday night, thn seeond 
one made in three days on cam­
pus, St. Josnph County spokesper­
son Jamieo Thirion said. 
Thirion said the arn~st was 
made at the intersection of' 
Juniper Hoad and Bulla Hoad li>r 
an "incident" involving "a particu­
lar individual" and a St. Joseph 
County police otlicer. 
"The oflicer noticed this partic­
ular ear almost hit him (in South 
Bendl at Mayflower (Hoad(, just 
north of the bypass," Thirion said. A large, unknown number of law enforcement vehidos were seen driving with flashing lights . North on .Juniper Hoad between 
9:30 and 10:30 p.m. 
Thirion said tho oflieer followed 
the ear to Notre Dame's eampus, 
where he pulled the ear over at 
the intersnetion, which is just east 
of Knott Hall. 
Notre Dame Seeurity/Police 
(NDSP) and South Bend Poliee 
were also present at tho arrest 
site, Thirion said. 
On Tuesday, NDSP arrested a 
South Bend man wanted on a 
warrant on South Quad after he 
stole a backpaek from North 
Dining Hall, assodato diroetor of 
NDSP Philip .Johnson said. 
Thirion said she could not pro­vide further details late Thursday about the typo of inddent or the reason for the arrest, since the poliee report had not been com­pletnd. Thirion said tho full rnport would be available sometime today. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal @nd.edu 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, September 30, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 


No longer a 'loser' 

I lose a lot of things. I leave shoes in hotel rooms, CD's in the computer clus­tnr and magazines in the gym. I no longer buy expensive sunglasses because I lose about a pair a month at TC (who doesn't love sunglasses at Kate Gales night?), and don't even get me start­
Associate
ed on how a lost 

Sports Editor 
cell phone nearly triggered a long battle with ResLife (but that's a column that will probably never be written). 
But all of those examples are nothing compared to when my roommate Gina and I lost the remote control to our TV. Leading a blameless and virtuous exis­tence gave me enough good karma to get a beautiful, spacious double on the third floor of Cavanaugh. Although I've enjoyed living in a large room that is the envy of freshmen everywhere, the problem is there are just so many places to lose things. It doesn't always help that Gina is extremely neat and consistently straightening things up. For a disorganized free spirit like myself, you'd think that's a pretty nice thing-especially when she makes my bed -but it has led to an alarming number of things being misplaced, mis­laid and possibly lost forever. 
We first noticed the missing remote at approximately 10 p.m. two week­ends ago, when I settled in to watch a movie and the remote was nowhere to be found. Bow was I to fast-forward through the credits? How would I stand watching parts where people die? We all know that walking 1 0 feet to the TV to control this is simply not acceptable. 
I couldn't find the remote. Gina couldn't lind the remote. We chal­lenged others to lind our remote, but all was in vain. I accused people of stealing our remote. We planned "miss­ing" signs to post around the dorm and contemplated offering a reward for information on its whereabouts. But nothing seemed to work. 
Basically, Gina and I realized we were losers. 

This is not a fun conclusion to have about oneself. It had crossed my mind before, but now, there was no doubt. The remote was gone. I was reasonably sure it was my fault. I was a loser. 
We checked under the futon. It was­n't there. We checked every drawer in the room (that's a lot). After days of stress, there was nowhere to search but under the beds. Flinging laundry aside and dragging out golf clubs and Christmas decorations, I took a flash­light and crawled under the bed. First, I found a pen. Then I found a ChapStick. Then my fmgers touched plastic. I craned my neck. It was gray and rectangular. Could it be -was it possibly-yes! 
On Wednesday night, the remote came home. Well, technically it had always been home. But we found it, which was the important thing. There was much rejoicing in Cavanaugh Hall, featuring a lot of high-pitched shriek­ing. We had defeated a piece of plastic. And I was no longer a loser. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

In yesterday's edition ofThe Observer, Saint Mary's golfer Megan Mattia's name was mispelled in a headline. The Observer regrets this error. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and srrives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhat we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-454 I so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: HAVE YOU READ DuLAC? WHY OR WHY NOT? 




Sarah Runger Jimmy Buffi Ryan Bove Andy Carter Tim Roy Craig Borchard 
sophomore sophomore sophomore sophomore sophomore sophomore Walsh Carroll Sarin Fisher O'Neill Morrissey 
"No, I'm an "Oh, please. "No. I have only "Yes, every "Yeah, Andy "Of course -to angel." Reading is referenced it in night before I go keeps getting know fish tank overrated. " times ofneed. " to sleep!" me in trouble. dimensions. " 

FRANCESCA SETA!The Observer 
Chris Brophy speaks about Catholic social teaching on labor issues, solidarity and family at the inaugural assembly of the Campus Labor Action Project (CLAP) on God Quad at the Father Sorin statue Thursday. CLAP is an effort to build a genuine Notre Dame family around Catholic principles of labor justice. 
OFFBEAT 
Danish Santa compensated for reindeer's death 
COPENHAGEN -The Danish Air Force said Thursday it paid about $5,000 in compensation to a part-time Santa Claus whose reindeer died of heart failure when two lighter jets roared over his farm. 
The animal, named Rudolf, was grazing at the farm of Olavi Nikkanoff in central Denmark when the screaming F -16 jets passed overhead at low altitude in February. 
The reindeer collapsed and died, leaving Nikkanoff with the prospect of only one animal pulling his sleigh next Christmas. 
He complained to the air force, which agreed to compensate him for the cost of the reindeer and veterinary expenses. 
"We got a letter from Santa complaining about his reindeer's death and looked into it seriously," air force spokesman Capt. Morten Jensen said. 
Street plagued by foul odor gets relief 
SAN JOSE, Calif. ­Residents of a suburban street plagued with a revolt­ing sewer stench are fmally getting some, ahem, relief. 
"Sometimes, it's just over­whelming," accountant Nikki Warner said of the intersection of Zanker and Trimble. "Sometimes you go outside and, ugh." 
"Like ammonia and rotten eggs," said M~chael O'Connell, an engineer with the city's Public Works Department. 
The area's main sewage line -a handmade brick pipe -was installed in the late 1890s, before Teddy Roosevelt was president. It's been collecting sewage and stench ever since. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

..... 
c:r: 
(.) 


0 
HIGH 68 HIGH 75
..... 
LOW 45 LOW 50 

53 
48 

72 
48 

IN BRIEF 
James Maughan, general manager of Controls and Power Electronics for GE Energy, will deliver a talk in Notre Dame's Distinguished Engineering Lecture Series at 
12:50 p.m. today in the DeBartolo Hall auditorium. Titled "Energy Technologies That Will Drive the Coming Environmental Revolution," the lecture is free and open to the public. 
Welsh Family, Alumni, Howard and Badin Halls will host a campus-wide Game Watch on a Big Screen on South Quad this Saturday as Notre Dame takes on Purdue. There will be free glow-in­the-dark necklaces and pop­corn. The event starts at kick-ofT and all students are invited to attend. 
Cass Sunstein, Karl N. Llewellyn Distinguished Professor of Jurisprudence at the University of Chicago Law School, will give a resched­uled lecture on his recently published book, "Radicals in Robes: Why Extreme Right­Wing Courts Arc Wrong for America" at 4 p.m. Tuesday, Oct. 4 in the Notre Dame Law School Courtroom. 
The Department of Film, Television and Theatre (FTT) will open its 2005-06 theater season with Arthur Kopit's "Wings" Tuesday to Saturday, Oct. 8 at 7:30 p.m. and Oct. 9 at 2:30 p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theatre of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


74 52 

74 54 


Friday, September 30, 2005 The Observer+ NEWS page 3 
Alumna emphasizes education 
KATE FENLON/The Observer Dr. Mary Erdmans, a 1981 Saint Mary's graduate, returned to the College Thursday to speak on the role of religion and motherhood in the lives of working class women. 
By SARAH VOSS Nt•ws Writ<·r 
Saint Mary's students were given a perspective on edu­cation Thursday by '81 alum­na Dr. Mary Erdmans in her talk "Nuns and Moms: The Hole of Heligion and Mothnrhood in the Life Choices of White Working Class Wonwn." 
l•:rdmans, who earned lwr 
M.A. and Ph.D. in Soeiology at Northwestnrn University, 11xplon~d Thailand as a mem­ber of the Peace Corps before becoming a profnssor at Contra! Connecticut Stale Univnrsity. She published nunwrous studies as journal arlidns and smaller writings throughout her career about tlw povorty of Polish and llispanic immigrants. 
Students and professors att11nded the lecture, which focused on the fivns of fivn working class 
They Had and the Choices They Made," which follows five sisters who eame of age during the 1950s. 
Erdmans approaehed the project from a feminist view­point, looking to demic space" created solely for women, Erdmans said. 
Through the Grasinski women, Erdmans said she realized the choices individu­als make are often limited by 
unearth the deep "It is interesting that, status. 
feelings of resent­W e
even ifyou plan on
ment and oppres­accept [our sion present in the becoming a stay-at­place in heart of 1950s home mom, it is society] as 
housewives. When a part of a
important to consider
she set about predeter­interviewing the an education mined gen­rnmaining five sis­valuable." der rou­ters, she sought tine," she out the "misery, said.
Catherine Wagner 
isolation and T h e oppression" that Saint Mary's junior urgency of 
she believed exist­ed. But the feel­ings she found were quite differenl. 
While uncovering the sto­ries of these women -her mother being one of them 
w o nw n . i n t hn "We accept lour place 
Carroll 
in society} as a part
Auditorium. Brought to Saint ofa predetermined 
Mary's by the gender routine." 
Department of Sociology and 

Dr. Mary Erdmans

llw Department of llistory along professor with tlw Center Central Connectlcutt for Women's 

State University 

Intercultural Leadership, Erdmans said 
Erdmans realized they perceived feminism as the "devalua­tion of their choices as housewives and, more importantly, mothers." 
She spoke about the career choic­es of women in the 1950s, which includ­
relating 
this topic to young women reached a peak when she realized the Grasinski women expressed "dissatisfaction not with who they were, but with what they could have been." 
Of her education at Saint Mary's, Erdmans said she was amazed at the number of women who were "blase" about education. 
"Explore the greater range of choices [available] to you ... search for a meaningful purpose [both of education and of lif.e,]" she said. 
Students like junior Catherine Wagner r.eacted positively to the lecture. 
"It is interesting that, even if you plan on becoming a stay-at-home mom, it is important to consider an education valuable," she said. 
Contact Sarah Voss at svossO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



SMC seniors greet fathers on campus 
Series of events includes "Casino Night," ND vs. Purdue game watch, closing Mass 
By KELLY MEEHAN News Writer 

Saint Mary's seniors will be spending a majority of their weekend with a very impor­tant man in their life -and it will not be their boyfriends. 
Instead, it will be their dads. 

More than 150 seniors and their fathers will participate in the College's traditional "Senior Dad's Weekend," which kicks ofT tonight at 8 
p.m. with "Casino Night" at Windsor Hall in South Bend. 
In keeping with tradition from previous years, "Casino Night" was originally sched­uled to be held at Heartland, however, new owners refused to honor a contract with Saint Mary's. 
What originally seemed to be an obstacle for the Senior Dad's planning committee proved very beneficial in the end. 
''I'm truly glad though that it is at Windsor Hall because it brings more class to the night and the manag­er at Windsor 
"I am a little nervous to see how the tailgate goes because we will be serving alcohol, and everyone drinking will not be allowed to leave the student lounge, which, if you ask me, cannot hold over 300 people ­but we'll make it work," Cam pe said. 
Thn last scheduled event will be a closing Mass at 9:45 a.m. on Sunday morning at the Church of Loretto. 
The weekend allows snniors to show their dads what life is like at Saint Mary's, and events are scheduled so that students have free time to do just this. 
"Everyone is excited about taking our dads out and show­ing them the 'nightlife' of South Bend, although I'm not really sure if my dad will truly appreciate the sweaty erowd­edness of the Backer," senior Anna llaneock said. "Hegardless I'm sure it will be a fun weekend, and an impor­tant tradition for us to get to spend a weekend just bonding with our dads, and showing them what our lives are 
Hall is a Saint really like
"Everyone is excited 
Mary's alumna hnre at SMC."
about taking our dads
and has been Snnior wonderful to out and showing them Angela Hizzo 
us, Senior the 'nightlife' ofSouth said Snnior 
Dad's Chairman D a d s
Bend."
Casey Campe Weekend is a said. "They have College tradi­offered us a 50 Anna Hancock tion that percent discount intends to give
Saint Mary's senior 
on everything. This has really proven to be a blessing in disguise." 
"Casino Night" will be a dressy-casual event where stu­dents and their dads will be entertained while partaking in various casino games. During the evening there will be a live auction to raise money for senior class events, such as the senior formal. Bids will be placed on such things as front row graduation seats, a year­long parking spot in the Special Events lot and Hummer driving service for dinner at The Vine. 
On Saturday seniors and their dads are invited to attend Notre Dame vs. Purdue game watch at 4:30 p.m. in the Student Center. In years past, the game watch has been at The College Football Hall of Fame, however, it was decided that it would be held at the Student Center this year in order to show off the new facility. 
seniors time 
to reflect on 

their collegn experienee and look forward to what is to come. 
"I think it is important to keep the Senior Dad's Weekend tradition alive because it lets us reflect on how much we've grown as women," she said. "We're not daddy's little girl anymore, even though we may still feel like it." 
Rizzo is grateful for week­ends such as Senior Dad's that allow her to relax and spend time with her father, who was last on campus the day she moved her in. 
"Spending time with your dad [at Saint Mary's) is not something all girls get a chance to do each year," she said. "By designating a week­end and sponsoring events, Saint Mary's can make it easi­er to hang out with your dad." 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO1@saintmarys.edu 
the lecture .encouraged stu­dPnts to challenge the "per­ceptions of opportunities that limit us." 
Erdmans' lecture was based on her book "The Grasinski Girls: The Choices ed motherhood and religious sisterhood. By choosing sis­terhood, women were able to grasp their only chance to become educated members of society, she said. In essence, it was the only "aca-


Friday, September 30, 2005 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 


With hard-won tickets, fans flock to Purdue 
By ADRIENNE RUFFNER News Writer 
Whether it meant taking their chances in the ticket lottery or masquerading on stage as Disney characters, students scrambled to get tickets to Saturday's Notre Dame football game against Purdue in West Lafayette, Ind. 
The Student Union Board (SUB) sponsored a ticket lottery last week and sold 346 game tickets for $43 each to students whose numbers were drawn. This is roughly the same am8unt of tick­ets Notre Dame usually receives for away games, SUB officials said. Tickets were sold at the LaFortune Box Office from Sept. 19 to Sept. 26, and all extra tick­ets sold quickly Tuesday morn­ing. 
Juniors Maria Hinton and Amy Lauterbach were among those with lucky lottery numbers. 
"We got eight tickets through the lottery, then went early on Tuesday to the Lafun Box Office and bought two more," Hinton said. "It's my first away game, so it will be interesting to see how other schools have football week­ends." 
Hinton, Lauterbach and eight 

barometers," McGurty said.  "/ have never felt so  paint to be found on the camp.  
"For instance, [I]  alive as I have  "Captain  
have not had run­ning water for days here with  leading these Marines."  McGurty also passed on a 1988 ND football  
the  insurgents  championship  
damaging water supply from the Euphrates to the  Joe Gagliardi Marines 1st Lt.  banner which I have hanging in my room as  
camp."  well," Gagliardi  
Gagliardi  has  said.  "Most  

been stationed in Iraq since importantly, though, I brought mid-July and plans to return out my No. 3 Darius Walker home in April 2006. McGurty ND football jersey so that has been in Iraq for nearly every Saturday night/Sunday· seven months and will be morning -in the wee-h_ours released from active duty back of the morning if I am lucky to the Navy reserve in late enough to catch an Irish foot­November and will return to ball telecast on the Armed civilian Emergency Medical Forces Network -I can let practice in New York. everyone know who I am 
"I have never felt so alive as pulling for." I have leading these Marines McGurty has similarly deco­as we all' make our small con­rated his area in Iraq with tribution to the causes of both Notre Dame memorabilia. ridding this country of those "My medical office is who would seek to see these adorned as an ND shrine start­people continue to be ing with a flag on the outside oppressed, as well as ridding and posters on the inside. The the world as a whole of those words to the Alma Mater are who wish to spread terror posted," he said. while taking innocent lives to Notre Dame is still an active further their maniacal cause," part of McGurty's life and he Gagliardi said. was disappointed that he could 
Gagliardi said he and fellow not return to campus last Notre Dame graduates are spring for the graduation and able to distract themselves commissioning of his daughter from their harsh environment Katie. by discussing Notre Dame foot­"The one event I so greatly ball, remembering the beauty miss not attending during this of their friends plan to leave Saturday morning to drive two and a half hours to West Lafayette, where they will spend the afternoon tailgating before the 6:45 p.m. game. 
SUB said they are sponsoring two buses that will leave campus 12 p.m. Saturday. Bus tickets were $10 each and-like the game tickets -they sold out quickly. 
Farley Hall's "What Would You Do for Purdue Tickets?" contest Monday allowed students to com­pete for tickets by exhibiting their creativity to impress the judges. 
Junior Jamie Blanke was one of the talented students to win free tickets. He and three friends dressed as Disney characters and sang songs to fit the theme of the upcoming game. Blanke sported the garb of Ariel from the Little Mermaid, complete with a green sheet for the fin and two dining hall bowls for a seashell bra. 
"The bottom line is, you have to be pretty crazy to dress up in those costumes and sing the songs we sang," said Blanke. "The judges agreed that we were crazy. I was very pleased with the opportunity to win free tickets." 
Blanke and his friends plan to bring some of their "craziness" to West Lafayette this weekend. 
"We're really looking forward to the game," Blanke said. "We're going to bring that same craziness that we used to win the competition when we go to Purdue on Saturday." 
No matter how students got their tickets, many -like Lauterbach -are optimistic about the outcome of Saturday's game. 
"Both teams have dynamic offenses, but I'll think we'll win," she said. 
Contact Adrienne Ruffner at aruffner@nd.edu 

Capt. John McGurty ('74), left, flew across Iraq to act as the promoting officer in the promotion ceremony of 1st Lt. Joe Gagliardi ('03). Both participated in the NROTC Program while at Notre Dame. 
deployment was my Katie's Mosul, Iraq on Jan. 6." combat ones around Iraq. graduation from Notre Dame, Kuwik expects to Jeave Iraq "I had many visits with Eddie and commissioning," McGurty in December and hopes to be O'Connell -a classmate of said. "For years, I truly home for Christmas. Joe's and roommate at Cherry dreamed about commissioning "There are a lot of ways to Point, NC. I ate chow with her as a fellow Naval Officer." describe my year in Iraq, but Eddie several times and 
In McGurty's place, probably the most appropriate brought him up to the Commanding Brig. Gen. Dave is 'long.' There are truly no squadron for chow once as Papak, United States Naval days off," Kuwik said. "Your well," McGurty said. "His dad, Aacademy '76, performed the choices for clothing are simply Ed O'Connell, and I were honors and commissioned your desert camouflage uni­classmates from the class of Katie at the Grotto, McGurty form or the Army Physical 1974. So the ND family contin­said. Fitness Uniform -no civilian ues to unfold here in Iraq." 
"We are proud to call our­clothes allowed." Army ROTC established a selves warriors, members of Despite these challenges, Notre Dame Alumni club of the armed forces fighting in Kuwik said he Iraq last June, the war against those who will look back on after the idea would seek to bring terror this experiences 'There are a lot of was mentioned onto our home soil, but we are as one of the ways to describe my by Chuck also proud to call ourselves most positive Lennon, execu­
year in Iraq, but
Domers, members of a great things he has tive director of 
and proud fraternity and ever done. probably the most the -Notre Dame sorority of men and women "The cama-appropriate is Alumni whose pride in both our coun­raderie with the Association, at
'long'."
try and in Notre Dame runs fellow soldiers is the ROTC just as deep," Gagliardi said. amazing and we retreat in June 
will leave Iraq Kevin Kuwik 2004. With the From basketball to the knowing that we Army engineer captain help of Bethany battlefields -played a crucial Heet, director of 
Also serving in Iraq is Army role in the suc-International engineer Capt. Kevin Kuwik, cess of last January's elections Alumni Clubs, the Iraq club an assistant basketball coach and in the development of has grown significantly. at Ohio University and a 1996 democracy in this country," "There is my ND Alumni Notre Dame graduate. Kuwik said. Association stickers on the 
Kuwik said he was shocked window of my [Container when he received a letter last Alumni network Housing Unit] -basically a September calling him off the McGurty, Gagliardi, metal box that I live in," Individual Ready Serve ORR) Dobbertien and Kuwik are not Kuwik said. "I had read about list last September -primari­the only Notre Dame grads [the Alumni Club] in the ly because he had just put in who have served in Iraq. Alumni Association's magazine his discharge paperwork. "At one point [this summer], last year, so I got in touch with 
"Instead it was activation all three of the U.S. Marines Suzanne Inzerillo, the founder, orders. After a series of train­that graduated from the via email when I got here. ups back in the states, I was NROTC program at ND in 2003 Only with ND would you find assigned and mobilized with were all deployed to Iraq at something as impromptu as the 113th Engineer Battalion, the same time," Gagliardi said, this so far away from South a National Guard unit head­adding that he was in contact Bend." quartered in Gary, IN," Kuwik with these men, 1st Lt. Ed said. "We arrived in Kuwait on O'Connell and 1st Lt. John 
Contact Kate Antonaccci at Dec. 19 and flew up into Pfunter, while deployed in kantonac@nd.edu 
Iraq 
continued from page 1 
ationsl at the same time." 
The men were also stationed near Navy Commander Mark Dobbertien, a general surgeon and 1980 Notre Dame gradu­ate, who, before his recent departure from Iraq, was kept busy in his field operating facility at Korean Village, Gagliardi said. 
"Dr. McGurty [flies] around the region often in order to treat emergency casuaties both American and Iraqi," Gagliardi said. "My job mostly consists of, along with my Marines, installing, operating and maintaining a tactical communications architecture that supports internal, exter­nal and ground to air commu­nications." 
Life in Iraq 
Both men graduated from the University -29 years apart -after participating in the NROTC Program. 
While Gagliardi said NROTC prepared him for what was to come as a U.S. Marine Corps officer, he said that no amount of training could prepare him for the sights of Iraq. 
"Life in a combat theater is unique. The living conditions are . certainly Spartan by most of the grotto and trading sto­ries from time spent on cam­pus. 
"The bond is unique, eternal and absolutely embodies the essence of the Notre Dame mystique under the direction of Our Lady and Our Lord," McGurty said. 
Gagliardi said that the val­ues and moral barometer instilled in him during his time at Notre Dame bring him great strength as he serves in Iraq. 

Keeping Notre Dame alive 
"Over here, there is a special bond that exists among all service members making the same sacrifices away from friends, family and home to do our small part in service to the country we call home and that bond is definitely intensified between graduates of Our Lady's university," Gagliardi said. 
To keep the Notre Dame spirit alive overseas, Gagliardi brought a few mementos. 
"1, of course, brought out my new 'The Shirt' for the start of the Charlie Weis football era, as well as two Notre Dame flags that adorn my small liv­ing area here at Korean Village," he said. 
Gagliardi said he also paint­ed an entire wall of his space to read "Go Irish," but had to 
use  green  and  gold  paint  
because  there  
was  no  blue  






ORLD & NATION 
Friday, September 30, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Ban on public displays of weapons 
.IFIWSALEM-Palestinian authorities lwgan Pnforeing a han on public displays of weapons Thursday, armsting three peopln and eonlh;eating the guns of ol'f-duty policn ollkNs in a key stnp toward imposing ordnr in tlw chaoti1: Gaza Strip. 
Thn crackdown camn as dozens of l'alnstinian towns and villages in the West Bank lwld municipal elm:tions. The pownrful llamas movement was expected to make strong gains, despite a continuing Israeli olli~nsivn against Islamic militants. 
Prnssing forward with its military cam­paign, Israeli soldiers kilh~d three Palestinian gunnwn during raids in the West Bank. Israel launched tlw wave of airstrikes and arrnst raids last wnnknrHI in response to (;aza militants' roeknt altacks on southnrn lsranli towns. 
Sting of car bombs kill at least 60 
BA(;III>AD -Thren suicide attackers exploded a string of near-simultaneous car bombs in a mainly Shiitn town Thursday, killing at lnast 60 people and wounding 70, Elsewhere, a roadside bomb killed live U.S. soldiers lighting in a hotbed of Iraq's insur­gency. 
Tlw altacks wern part of a new surgn of violencn alwad of an Oct. 15 referendum on Iraq's ronstitution, whose passage is eru­eial to prospects for starting a withdrawal of American troops. The U.S. ambassador was struggling to nngotiate changes to the charter in hopes of winning Sunni Arab support. 
Sunni insurgents have vowed to wreck the vote, with al-(}aida in Iraq declaring "all-out war" on the Shiite majority that dominates Iraq's government. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Senate prepares for possible bird flu 
WASHINGTON-The Senate voted Thursday to f>rovidn $4 billion to the Centers for Diseasn Control and Prevention to stockpile vacdnes to protect people against bird llu and prepare for a potential outbrnak. 
By voice vote, senators agreed to tack the proposal onto next year's $440 billion del(msn spending bill. The Serutte still must approvn the ovnrall dnlimse hill, and a vote is expected next wonk. Tlwn, tho Snnatn must work out a final v1~rsion with thn llous1~. which did not include morwy li1r bird flu vaedrws in iL<> delimse bill. 
In rm:nnt wnnks, the Unitnd States has ratch­Pled up its prnparations in ease the virus ­whieh has already killed or lnd to the slaughter of millions of birds in Asia and Europe ­sparks an inllunnza pandemic. 

Miller released; agrees to testify 
WASI I INGTON -After nearly thrne months lwhind bars, New York Times reporter Judith Miller was released from a federal prison Thursday alter agreeing to testify in the investi­gation into the di<;dosurn of a eovert CIA ollker's idontity, two pnople familiar with the case said. 
Miller left the fedoral detention center in Alexandria, Va., after reaching an agreement with Spodal Counsol l'atriek Fitzgerald. Legal sources said sho would appoar before a grand jury invnstigation the caso Friday morning. The sourCI!S spoke on condition of anonymity bneausn of the sm:rm:y of tlw grand jury pro­
n~ndings. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Mobile home fire kills two children 
IWCHESTEit, Ind.-Fire swept through a mobiln homn in northern Indiana, kiII ing two child ron and leaving another hospitalized with burns. 
Authorities said 3-year-old Alexius Wilkins and I 0-month-old Braxton Wilkins died after they were trapped inside the mobile home during the lire on Wndnnsday. 
Tho horne in a rural area of Fulton County, about 40 milns south of South Bend. was fully engulfed in flames when l'irel'ighters arrived shortly after 11:30 a.m. 

Roberts becomes Chief Justice 
Supreme Court replaces Rehnquist; Roberts is youngest to hold position 
Associated Press 

WASIIJNGTON -This 
time, the son didn't steal the 
show from his dad. 

Supreme Court Chief Justice John G. Hobnrts Jr. finally had the spotlight to himself Thursday, becoming the youngest chief justice of the United States in two centuries after winning sup­port from more than three­fourths of an often partisan­chargt>d Senate. 
Hobl'rts' two-year journey from a respected but little­known appellate lawyer to the 17th chief justice of the Supreme Court was often punctuated by the public antics of his rambunctious son, Jack, 4. 
When President Bush first announced Hoberts' nomi­nation to the nation's high­est court in July, Jack danced enthusiastically ­and most distractingly ­throughout the president's remarks. 
At his confirmation hear­ing earlier this month, Jack flexed his muscles for pho­tographers, then snuggled into his dad's arms. And two years ago, during Senate confirmation hearings on Hoberts' nomination as a Washington D.C. federal appeals judge, Jack and the now 5-year-old Josephine were present and, it seems, making some noise. "The committee has already heard some unscheduled testimony from my children, Josephine and Jack," Hoberts joked then. 
But on Thursday, as their dad was sworh in at the White llouse East Hoom by Justice John Paul Stevens, .Jack sat politely if a bit fidg­ety in the front row with his family. 
Bush noted that Jack is a "fellow who's comfortable with the cameras" to laugh­ter from the crowd. Roberts got in a dig too, noting his antics earlier in the month. "We found a way to get Jaek into the committee room, introduced to the committee and back out again without any serious crisis," Hoberts 

AP Judge John Roberts is sworn in by Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens Thursday as the 17th Chief Justice of the United States in the East Room of the White House. 
said. 
Hoberts, at 50, will also have to learn to handle judi­cial crises at the Supreme Court, which is as divided as the nation over abortion and other tumultuous social issues. The court opens a new term on Monday 
"All Americans can be confident that the 17th chief justice of the United States will be prudent in exercising judicial power, firm in defending judicial inde­pendence and above all a faithful guardian of the Constitution," the president said. 
Bush is expected to make a seeond Supreme Court nomination within days, one that conservatives hope will move the court to the right. Heplacing Hehnquist with Hoberts keeps the court's current balanee, but replac­ing the moderate Justice Sandra Day O'Connor with a conservative could tilt it rightward. 
Hoberts called the Senate's 78-22 bipartisan vote for him "eonlirmation of what is for me a bedrock principle, that judging is dif­ferent from politics." All of the Senate's 55 Hepublicans, half of the 44 Democrats and independent James Jeffords of Vermont supported him. 
"What Daniel Webster termed the miraele of our Constitution is not some­thing that happens in every generation, but every gen­eration in its turn must accept the responsibility of supporting and defending the Constitution and bear­ing true faith and allegianee to it," Hoberts said. 
A erowd induding seven of the eight sitting justiees, Hoberts' parnnL<>, Hosnmary and .John Sr., Senate sup­porters and White House well-wishers stood and applauded as Hoberts kissed his wife and shook Stevens' hand. The audi­ence also included Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and White House eounsel Harriet Miers, both of whom have been mentioned as candidates for O'Connor's seat. 

Former aide testifies in Illinois trial 
Associated Press 

CIIICAGO -The political strate­gist who helped engineer former Gov. George Hyan 's rise to power took the witness stand Thursday and in testimony laced with wise­craeks began telling a jury how Hyan doled out state contracts, leases and favors to the well-con­nected. 
Scott Fawell waved to spectators and grinned broadly as he took his seat. lie nodded to Hyan, saluted a newspaper reporter and made no effort to disguise his disdain for the prosecutors who put him in federal prison for graft. 
Asked by proseeutor Patrick M. Collins why he agreed to testifya­
gainst his former boss, the 48-year­old Fawell cited his love for his fiancee and added: "And you guys got my head in a vise." 
Hyan, 71, is charged with racket­eering conspiracy, fraud and other offenses. Prosecutors say he doled out contracts and business to polit­ical insiders in exchange for cash, free vacations and other favors while he was Illinois secretary of state in the 1990s. Ile is on trial along with his lobbyist friend Larry Warner. 
Fawell served as Hyan's chief of staff in the secretary of state's ofl'iee and masterminded Hyan's campaign for governor in 1998. 
Fawell, who is serving a 6 1/2­year sentence in federal prison for 
racketeering and fraud, said he considers Hyan and Warner his friends and is testifying against them only bncausn he is facing even more time behind bars for bid-rigging and hopes to get lenient treatment for himself and his fiancee -who also has pleadnd guilty. 
The witness said he compilnd a master list while working in the seeretary of state's office that showed how Byan doled out jobs, speeial license plates, contracts and other favors. 
lie said he made the list beeause he believed it would become politi­cally useful. 
"I view everything through the eyes of politics," Fawell said. 

promote homosexuality instead of promoting acceptance."
Shirts 

Gomberg said the shirts were continued from page 1 not designed for the purpose Martin mentioned. an ally," Gomberg said. "Shock value is not necessar­
Despite Gomberg's optimistic ily what we are going for with evaluation of the day, other the shirts," Gomberg said. students noticed a drop in par­"They are more of a symbol ticipation. that ND is an accepting, safe 
"It's definitely less than when place for GLBTQ students we first started," said senior regardless of formal University Andy Magee, a member of the policy. More people wearing University Standing Committee the shirts and more people on Gay and Lesbian Student embracing that message is fab­Needs and unol'l'icial member ulous." of AllianceND. "When you lose Some students, like graduate that initial excitement, you students Joe Gallagher, Jason lose some numbers." Quinn and Chris D'Andrea, 
But Magee said he was still simply didn't know Thursday pleased with how the day was designated as a Gay? Fine unfolded. by Me day. 
"It was cool to go back in the "We're never aware of it dining hall and see little until the day we see 'people islands of orange shirts," he wearing the shirts," said said. Gallagher, whose response 
Senior Lauren Manning indicated a reason for the sup­sported the shirt to express posed decrease in participa­her support for the cause, tion. which she said has become When asked if he supported "more vocal." the day's cause, Gallagher 
"I just feel like it's a good said, "What exactly is it sup­way to support the GLBTQ porting? If you are gay, that's community, especially because fine by me." I feel like the group's gaining Quinn said the slogan was momentum on campus," "antiquated." Manning safd. "And with a "It should already be fine by new president especially, so we you," he said. "But it's needed can show its importance to us here." as a student body." Gallagher, 
Manning said she Quinn and had become much "When you lose that D'Andrea all more aware of "the received
initial excitement, 
dialogue" at Notre undergradu­
you lose some
Dame surrounding ate degrees alternative lifestyles numbers." elsewhere and since her freshman said Notre year. Dame was
Andy Magee 
Senior Sara Urben unquestion­
University Standing 
also wore the shirt, ably more and like Manning, Committee on Gay and conservative focused on the idea Lesbian Student Needs in its attitude of dialogue. regarding 
"I just have a lot alternative of friends who are homosexu­lifestyles than their previous al," Urben said. "A lot of times schools. at a conservative Catholic uni­"The University should have versity, people are afraid to gotten its act together [and talk about these issues with recognized a gay-straight people they don't know." alliance club] a long time ago," 
Other students disagreed D'Andrea said. with the way the campaign For many freshmen, seeing was conducted. the shirts was an unexpected 
"I am not against [Gay? Fine surprise Thursday morning. by Me day], but I don't wear a Freshman Greg Arbogast said shirt because I feel that some­he did not know about the one's sexuality is their own shirts in advance but had "no business," sophomore Tom problem with it." Martin said. "I think there is a "It's just a way for people to large majority of the campus express their beliefs," he said. who doesn't care one way or "It gives a general sense of the another whether or not some­amount of support on cam­one is gay. pus." 
"But by wearing bright Arbogast said he did not orange shirts and drawing hear any specific stereotypes attention to themselves, it about Notre Dame and alterna­seems like they are trying to tive lifestyles before coming to 
Friday, September 30, 2005 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 

Students and faculty members wear signature orange tee shirts at a "Gay? Fine by Me" discussion at the Center for Social Concerns Thursday. AllianceND hopes the shirts will foster awareness on campus. 
campus but "just knew it was a becoming a tolerant, open­new perspective, she said. pretty homogenous place." minded person." "Today made me kind of 
While last year's Princeton Sister Mary Gude, chair of realize it's got to be really hard Review report placed Notre the Standing Committee for to be GLBTQ on this campus Dame at No. 1 of "Alternative Gay and Lesbian Student sometimes," Williams said. "No Lifestyles Not an Alternative" Needs (SCGLSN), said the cam­one said anything really nasty garnered a good deal of back­pus atmosphere had changed to me, but it's kind of the sense lash -Notre Dame has since greatly over the past decade. of 'Oh, there's someone with slipped to No. 2, behind "The current climate at the shirt."' Hampden-Sydney College in Notre Dame, while not ideal, is Professor Dan Myers, chair Virginia -some students said certainly much better than it of the sociology department the ranking did not accurately was ten and even five years that sponsored the event, said reflect the campus climate. ago," Gude said. "That having Gay? Fine by Me days have an 
"There are a few [people] been said, I do learn every important role on campus. that give us a bad name," year of isolated incidents that "I and many other faculty in Urben said. "People are gener­are very hurtful to GLBT stu­the sociology department and ally accepting ... In my experi­dents." many other departments view ence, it's hard to imagine At an informal AllianceND the past events as grand suc­we're the least tolerant." meeting Thursday night, stu­cesses in terms of opening up 
Junior Jeff Smith, who was dents discussed their reactions some serious and respectful "in the closet" to the day and to discussion about these issues, as a freshman and some of the how it interacts with our and has since "Every new freshman reactions they visions of faith and how our come out, said received. practices and stance at Notre
class is more open­

he thought the S t a c e y Dame interface with attitudes
minded than any

ranking was Williams, a and practices in the broader "misleading." He before." sophomore and society in which we exist," attributes his AllianceND Myers said. current happi­board member, While the shirts "aren't novel
Jeff Smith 

ness partly to shared the story if you've seen them before,"
Notre Dame junior 

being openly of a friend who Myers noted the campaign is gay, but also to a wore her shirt to new for the students, faculty change in the work at the and staff new to Notre Dame attitudes of Notre Dame stu­Office of Information and each year. dents. Technology. "The goals cited above 
"I think it's becoming more "A delivery guy came in and require repetitive engage­'okay' to be gay at Notre said, "Gay, fine by you? You're ment," Myers said, "and thus I Dame," Smith said. "Certainly gay? You must be really think it is important to call every new freshman class is stressed,"' Williams said. attention to the issues periodi­more open-minded than any The man proceeded to tell cally with something like the before. From my informal sur­Williams' friend he was a tee shirt day." veys at CommUnity talks, I "freelance massage therapist" think roughly 80 percent of the and could help • her out, people of the class of '09 have Williams said. known one of their high school Comments like these and the friends or family members to looks Williams received while Contact Maddie Hanna at be gay. That is invaluable to wearing her shirt gave her a mhannal@nd.edu 
of American leadership and "Al-Qaeda has changed since and is a target who merits con­extremely impressive." involvement in Afghanistan September 11 in that it used to tinued pursuit. Notre Dame's Kellogg

Lecture 

after the Soviet pullout allowed have a corporate shape to it, "I won't argue that it would­Institute for International continued from page 1 that area to become a breeding and that organization no longer n't have been a bigger blow to Studies and the Kroc Institute 
ground for al-Qaeda. exists," he said. "It evolved decapitate al-Qaeda back in for International Peace Studies ference, not actual delibera­"Why throughout the entire from an organization to a 1997 or 1998 when it was still sponsored the lecture and dis­tion. We didn't have enough of period of the 1990s did the U.S. movement that relies upon more of an organization, but I cussion as a means to stimulate . an interest to consider alterna­not see the stimulation of still think that bin Laden is discussion of global issues with­tives to giving up and leaving Taliban as an local like7minded enough of a leader that it in the community. the Afghans in their misery." adversary?" jihadists. This is would still make a difference if "Both institutes aim to bring 
He described the rise of Coil asked. 'There has been a big the first time in we were to get him," Coli said. to campus a diverse set of Osama bin Laden from this "We contin­history that a Coli pointed out that many of views about global issues,"
generational change 
point forward as well as the ued to talk to guerilla move­the challenges and vulnerabili­George Lopez, a senior fellow
occurring within the 
failed attempts of the Clinton them in a ment has moved ties illuminated by the attacks at the Kroc Institute and politi­Administration and the CIA to very nuanced intelligence community." from physical would serve as enduring prob­cal science professor, said. effectively contain or eliminate way to try to space to cyber lems to be addressed by subse­"This was a high quality, in­him. persuade space." quent generations. depth journalist -not just a
Steve Coli 
''I'm just trying to emphasize them to expel Coll said some "There has been a big gener­Pulitzer Prize winner, but
Pulitzer Prize-winning 
how difficult it is to defend our bin Laden. It's people argue that ational change occurring within someone with scholarly awards values, laws and constitution hard now in journalist due to this devel­the intelligence community," he due to his experience on the against people who don't recog­2005 to opment, the said. "There had been an enor­ground in this part of the nize or respect these rules," remember death or capture mous wave of hiring of young world." Coli said. how far ·away the rest of the of bin Laden would not signifi­people since September 11, and Coll's current plans include 
Coli also explained his find­world seemed back then." cantly impact the war on terror. these people are the travel to Saudi Arabia to work ings about the rise of the In the course of fielding ques­Coli explained that he adhered 'September 11 generation,' just on an upcoming book and set­Taliban government in tions from the audience after to the school of thought that a like many of the students here. tling into his new position at Afghanistan in the context of the lecture, Coli also addressed central, visible figure like bin tonight. They are coming of age The New Yorker. Pakistan military domination the implications of the ongoing Laden who regularly and were shaped very much by with the United States as a will­hunt for bin Laden four years appears in the media -still these events, and I think that so Contact Katie Stuhldreher at ing bystander. Coli said the lack after Sept. 11. serves as a motivational leader far, they are by and large kstuhldr@nd.edu 

THE 0HSERVER 





USINESS
Friday, September 30, 2005 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
high. 
Hila. 
Dow 10,552.78 +79.69jones,., Up: Same: Down: Composite Volum 2,276 157 -2,176,121,500 ~·· AMEX 11731.37 +5.90 NASDAQ 2,141.22 +25.82 NYSE 7,632.50 +57.40 S&PSOO I ,227.68 +10.79 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 13,617.24 0.00 FTSf IOO(London) 5,47 8. 2 0 -16.60  
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE  
NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ) + 1.34 +0.52 39.2( MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) + 1.05 +0.27 25.9• CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -0.33 -0.06 17.81 INTEL CP (INTC) +2.21 +0.53 24.4! JDS LJNIPHASE CP ODSU) +0.47 +0.01 2.1•  
30-YEARBOND +0.84 +0.38 45.3~ 10-YEAR NOTE +0.63 +0.27 42.8~ 5-YEARNOTE +0.73 +0.30 41.41 3-MONTH BILL +2.10 +0.71 34.5! Commodities LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.44 66.79 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.70 475.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.53 91.38 fxcha Rates YEN 113.0050 EURO 0.8312 POUND 0.56 78 CANADIAN$ 1.1717  
IN BRIEF Stocks rally on investor optimism NI·:W YOHK -Stocks rallied strongly Thursday as investors grew more confident about the prosp.-cL" liw the neonomy despite the impact of hurricanes Hila and Katrina. While many of the hurricanes' long-term e!liJeL" ve ynt to be determined, st()(:ks rebounded after hao weeks of losses on bullish comments fromtwalysL'i and thn government. llowever, the mar­anknL'i rmnain rnlativnly unchanged liJr the month, and trading was very light. In addition, the marknt's gains may bn short­term, as invnstors wait for new neonomie data that will give Wall Street a better feel for the storms' n!Tects on employment, consumer dnmand and inustrial production. Next month's third-quarter earnings will also be an important harornnter of the eeonomy's health. "It's a trading rally, and not much more than that," said Hugh Johnson, chairman and chief investment ollicer of Johnson Illinf.,rton Advisors. "If there's anything you <:an hang your hat on, it's that with every passing day, some investors eonw eonvinend that there's not going to be any besorious fallout or damage to the economy or earn­ings due to the hurricanes." November crude hits record high NEW YOHK-G<L'ioline and heating-oil futures settled lower Thursday on the New York Moreantiln Exehangt\ while front-month crude oil stnd gains in choppy trading ahead of eontradpoexpirations on Friday. Natural gas hit a rneord Traders said the market was struggling for ection alter surges Wednesday amid continued dirwidospread relinery and oil production shut­downs in the wake of hurrieam~s Katrina and Octolmr gasoline, al'tor soaring R percont on Wednesday, gave hack noarly half of its gain on Thursday. Signilkantly, Novernhor erudn postml a 44-cnnt rise to $h(,.90, its highest levnl in snvon trading days. whitt~ forward months wnrn down. Bmwhmark light, swoct erude-oilliw Novmnhnr set.tled up 44 cnnl'i at $6h.79 a barrnl. Deecmbor !P<I down 17 <~nnts at $h(,.2<J a barrel.sett"A lot of people seem to want to own thn front nrul" ol' tho erude market, said Tom Bentz. an analyst at BNI' l'aribas. "It's not n<L'>Y to rnakn a o)p lot of snnsn of it." wh 

SEC investigates Frist's HCA 
Insiders of hospital chain painted sunny picture as they sold off own stock 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Tho Securities and Exchangn Commission is investigating HCA Inc., the hospital chain founded by Senatn Majority Leader Bill Frist's family, tho company said Thursday: 
Fndoral prosecutors and tho agency also are probing Frist's saln of stock in IICA, the Nashville, Tenn.-based company that grew into the nation's hu·gest for-profit health earn chain. 
I!CA, founded by Frist's fatlwr and brother, said it is cooperating. 
SEC spokesmen have declined comment on tho invnstigation. 
Doeurnents show that whiln IICA insiders were selling millions or dollars of their own stock this year, they were also· painting an upbeat picture of the eom­pany's outlook for investors 
On June 14. the day after Frist. H-Tnnn., ordered his sharos sold, HCA ollieers at a Goldman Sachs health caro conference in Laguna Niguel, Calif., spoke opti­mistically about the eompa­ny's prospects. 
Vietor Campbell, HCA's senior vice president or corporate communications and government relations, soothod investor concerns about unpaid patient debts and worries about patient volumes. 
lie advocated for a still­pending Senate bill that would limit the establish­ment. or physician-owned specialty hospitals. 
In the month before the spoeeh, Campbell sold about $12 million worth of stock. It was part of a mas­sive insider sell-ofl' at HCA that totaled some $112 mil­lion between this January and Juno. 
Those sales were dis­closed publicly through fil­ings with the SEC. 

fiCA sharos peaked about a week later, dosing at $58.40 on June 22. On July 13, they tumbled 9 percent following the company's announcement that it would not meet earnings expectations. 
In his remarks, Campbell did not speculate about the company's earnings, but spoke of a number of posi­tive trends for the compa­ny. The only expense line the company didn't like, he told investors, was the issue of money lost from treating uninsured patients who nover paid. But he said that was improving. 
The speHch helped fend optimism surrounding IICA stock, said Oksanna ButlPr, a senior health care indus­try analyst with Citigroup Investment Besearch. 
Campbell did not respond to requests for comment. HCA spokesman Jeff Prescott said, ''I'll let what he said at the conference speak for itself." 
Prist's staff discussed selling all remaining IICA 
stock in April, as well as that of his wife and chil­dren, Frist said. The sales, ordered on June 13, wore eompletnd by July 1. 
Frist said hn sold the shares to eliminate the appearance of a conlliet of interest, using only infor­mation that was publicly available. His ofTice has said he had gotten notice of a formal investigation, which grants subpoena powers to investigators to obtain information and documHnts. 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Eli Lilly and Co. said Thursday it will add a black-box warning to its attention deficit med­ication Strattera that the drug could inerPase suicidal thoughts among youths. 
Lilly will add the warning to labPI worldwide for Strattera, for which the U.S. Food and Drug Administration issued a health advi­sory Thursday after reviewing clini­cal trial data submitted by the com­pany. 
Lilly said that reports of suicidal thoughts by children and adolescents taking the drug were rare. Details on the labeling are being worked out with tho FDA, along with regulators in Europe and Australia. 
FDA ol'lkials said in addition to t))e blaek-box warning -the most prominent of medication warnings ­the Indianapolis-based company will also have to develop a medication guide for patients and health care providers. 

Dr. Thomas Laughren, director of the FDA's division of psychiatry prod­ucts, said in December the federal government asked Lilly to review 13 clinical trials conducted on children to assess a suicide risk. 
"The risk for any individual patient taking this drug is quite low, but from a public health standpoint, four (case) per thousand is a fairly big sig­nal, given there are tens of thou­sands or patients taking this drug," Laughren said. "We do think that preseribers and patients need to be aware of this risk that we've just dis­eovernd." 
About :{.4 million patients -adults and children -have been prescribed Strattera since it beeame available. 
with Lilly officials saying about 75 percent of those taking the mediea­tion are children. 
Company ofTicials stressed the inei­denee of suieidal thoughts among children were rare, the bnnelits of the drug continue to outweigh its risks. 
"It is uncommon and it is about thoughts, but it is something we want people to be aware of." said Dr. John Hayes, vice president of Lilly's research laboratories. 
Lilly submitted to the FDA results from Strattera clinit:al trial that found five Strattera-trnatnd youths had increased suicidal thoughts out of 1,357 patients, while none of R51 patients taking a placebo showt~d such changes. The t:ompany said orw youth attmnpted suicide during its Strattera trials, but that rnsnardwrs saw no signs of incrnasnd sui<:idal thoughts among adults. 
Warning added to Strattera label 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Friday, September 30, 2005 
Search engine star set to become juggernaut 
Coogle Web site morphs into a dynamic Internet resource celebrated around the world 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -In just seven years, Google Inc. has morphed from a bare-bones online search engine into a technological octopus that seems to sprout another intrigu­ing tentacle every other week. 
The Mountain View, Calif.,­based company, with $7.1 bil­lion to spend thanks to zealous shareholder support, is now positioned to head down a vari­ety of different paths. And that's 

spurring an 'You can ,t know up to until you are almost-daily in the bowels of
what we are really
guessing game the company,"
up to until you are
about where Schmidt said dur­Google's flurry of in the bowels ofthe ing a recent inter­innovation might view with The
company.

lead. Associated Press. Internet and John Battelle, software rivals the author of a
Eric Schmidt like Yahoo Inc. CEO of Google Inc. recently released 
and Sergey Brin have never been shy about sharing their ambitions to change the world. 
But they have never been keen on discussing the specific implications underlying the company's stated mission "to organize the world's informa­tion and make it universally accessible and useful." 
Google CEO Eric Schmidt, who makes all the key decisions with Page and Brin, isn't about to start divulging any secrets now. 
"You can't know 
what we are really 
and Microsoft Corp. aren't the only ones tracking Google. Big media and telecommunications companies also are on the look­out, realizing they too may face a looming threat. 
The theories about Google's next move are all over the map. 
Is Google cobbling together an Internet-driven computing plat­form that would challenge Microsoft's stranglehold on the personal computer? Is the com­pany preparing to build a wire, less network that would provide free Internet access nation­wide? Will Google dip into its huge hoard of cash to pull off a blockbuster deal? 
There's a consensus on one overarching point: "Google wants to be everywhere that people are," said Danny Sullivan, who has followed the book on Google's 

impact and poten­tial, thinks the company's mys­tique has turned it into the equivalent of a Rorschach inkblot -an amorphous object that's defined by the hopes and fears of whomever is looking at it. 
"When we see a remarkable new company that redefmes the technology industry, we either fear it because of all the things it might do or we expect more from it than it can possibly deliver," Battelle said. 
Some previous theories about Google's maneuvering already have turned out to be off base. For instance, last year, it was widely believed that the compa­ny planned to introduce its own Web browser. Schmidt has since thrown cold water on that idea. 
There's little doubt that 
will join a payroll that already has nearly tripled in the past two years to 4,200 employees. 
For all its growth, Google remains a relative midget alongside Microsoft, which employs 61,000 workers and holds nearly $38 billion in cash. 
But few companies spend more time worrying about Google than Microsoft, and not just because its rival has been raiding its work force to lure away talented engineers. The defectors include Kai-Fu Lee ­currently prevented from work­ing on search technology because Microsoft sued him for jumping to Google -and Mark Lucovsky, a key architect of the Windows operating system. 
Since 2003, Google has rolled out an assortment of software and services that could coa­ticed at Microsoft headquarters, where CEO Steve Ballmer vowed to kill Google in an obscenity-laced tirade late last year, according to a sworn court declaration submitted by Lucovsky in the lawsuit target­ing Lee. 
Ballmer has described Lucovsky's recollection as a "gross exaggeration." 
Google does seem to have designs that extend well beyond the turf of the world's richest and best-known technology company. 
Industry analyst Lauren Rich Fine suspects Google might use some of that money to buy a stake in its biggest business partner, America Online -and thus thwart Microsoft's reported attempt to form an alliance with 
AOL. 

Google declined 
lesce into a "They have the to comment on challenge to that possibility.
infrastructure to
Microsoft's There's already 
Office suite of challenge a company plenty on Google's applications, like Microsoft. ,, plate, so much so says Stephen that some industry Arnold, whose observers suspect
Stephen Arnold 
recently com­the company will 
author

pleted electronic become a 21st­
book, "The Google Legacy," examines the company's ambi­tions beyond online search. 
After studying the details of the patents that Google has obtained during the past two years, Arnold is convinced the company plans to build upon the sophisticated computer architecture that drives its search engine to offer a Web­hosted alternative to Windows. 
"They have the infrastructure to challenge a company like Microsoft," Arnold said. 
All of this hasn't gone unno­
century Icarus, a 
high-flying Internet company brought down by its own hubris. 
Others believe Google possess­es the technical dexterity to wrap its arms around all of its disparate projects. 
But even the optimists like Battelle have their doubts. 
"There are no guarantees for Google," he says. "The biggest question is whether they can accomplish everything they want before someone else comes along with even better ideas." 
Irish 
continued from page 1 
come and go all day as their class schedule per­mits. 
The conference will begin at 9 a.m. with a lecture by Eamon 6 Cufv, who was appointed Minister for Community, Rural and Gaeltacht Affairs in July 2002. 6 Cufv is responsible for ensuring European recognition of the Irish lan­guage. He also introduces legislation that mandates the names of places in Irish-speaking districts appear on road signs in Irish only. 
6 Cufv is expected to make an announcement that will "garnish consider­able press coverage," 6 Conchubhair said. 
The all-day conference will include two breaks and will conclude at 4:30 p.m. with a reception in the Great Hall at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Registration for the con­ference is free and can be completed at the Keough Institute's Web site. 
Contact Peter Ninneman at ninneman.3@nd.edu 


company closely as editor of the Google is going to get much big­industry newsletter Search ger. Engine Watch. The company made that clear 
But Google's long-range objec­last week when it announced tives remain obscure. Is the plans to build a 1-million­company simply exploring dif­square-foot campus just a few ferent ways to distribute the ads miles away from its 915,000­that generate virtually all of its square-foot headquarters, revenue? Or is Google pursuing known as the "Googleplex," on a much grander plan that ulti­the grounds of NASA's Ames mately will transform the way Research Center. Google needs people work, communicate, the space for thousands of new shop, read and even watch TV? workers and also plans to draw 
Former Stanford University on the brain power of NASA's graduate students Larry Page rocket scientists. The new hires 
Pacific Coast Concerts 
CJs 


Saturday Oct. 1~ 
NO Purdue Football Party Watch the Game on CJs ' 92" Projection TV and Three 42" Plasma TVs $2.50 32 oz Specials 
Sandoy Octob<tt 30, ZOOS • 7:00pm Morris Performing Arts Ccrntcrr . . Sooth Bernd, ln<liano @1?/iv-:t';(r TldlOJts avfl!lhablv qt Houts BOle Qffke. ----~··-­Chorg<r by phon<l 57lo/ZJ,._9190 or &00/S:JJ-6415 
PARTY STARTS AT KICKOFF 

------------~-----------­
Friday, September 30, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Associated J>rcss 
LOS ANCI~I.ES-A wind­wh i ppnd 17 ,000-acrn wi ldf'ire rarPd arross hills and canyons along t.hn l'.ity's northwnstnrn PdgP Thursday. thrnatPning honws and forring h und rPds of fli'Oflll' to PVaf'Ualf'. 
SomP :{.000 fin•fightPrs aidPd hy airrraft struggiPd to protPd ridgPtop lwusns along tlw l.os AngniPs-VPntura county Iiili\ a rugg.•d, brushy landsr.apP west of l.os Ang1dns' San h~rnando Vallny. Off'irials said tl11~ hlazn was 5 percnnt contairwd as it hurnPd toward surh communi­tins as Thousand Oaks. Simi Vallny, Calabasas and Agoura. 
Nunwrous homos worn evae­uall~d in ninn an~as. and the Hed Cross n~ported (,()O p1Hlple had signed up to stay at five of its slwltnrs. 
At lnast one home and five other structures were lost, but 2,000 buildings had been saved hy l'in~l'ighters, Los Angeles County Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky said. 
"We are guardedly optimistic, if the weather cooperates, if the public cooperates," Yaroslavsky said. "This may IHHI well for all of us, but weathnr is unpredictable in tlwsn parts and nvnryone needs to be on guard." 
Tnmperatures wnrn in the high <JOs but were expectod to drop over the n1~xt few days whiln humidity rises. 
"For thn firefighters, it's actually pretty deeent news," said nwtnorologist Joe Sirard of tlw National Woathor Sorvice in Oxnard. "It will be much morn favorablo for containing this fiw." 
Sonw gusts worn roportnd on tho fire linns, but tlwrn was no reapJwarance of tho strong winds from tho intorior that fannnd a small brush lire into a 
Blaze threatens California hotnes Female veterans say 
they vvere harassed 

Associated Press 
WASIIIN(;TON -Six in I 0 women who have servnd in the National Cuard and Heserves say they wero· snx­ually harassed or assaulted, but less than one-quartnr reported it and many who did were oncouraged to drop their complaints, a govern­ment survey says. 
The survey by the Veterans Affairs Department found that nearly half· of the AP photo women who responded said the incidents occurred while
A resident waters down her roof as wildfire burns toward her home In Simi Valley, Calif. Thursday. they were on duty. 
conflagration on Wednesday. The eause of the lire was not immediately known. 
Historically, some fires in the region have turned and burned through the Santa Moniea Mountains to Malibu and the Paeilic Ocean. 
David Nenkervis, 64, was away from his home in Santa Susana Pass when it went up in flames. He returned to lind he had also lost several vehicles and his dog was missing. 
"When you lose everything it's tough to have plans. Right now, my brain is not working. It's all mush. I ean't even think about what I'm going to do tomorrow," Nenkervis said. 
Authorities said residents took evacuation orders serious­ly in the aftermath of II urricane Katrina. 
"I wasn't going to get stupid about it. There was only one way out, and it was getting real hot," said Jeff Johns, 48. 
Actor Shelley Berman of "Curb Your Enthusiasm" and his Bell Canyon neighbors evacuated Wednesday evening, taking a few items from the home he has lived in since 1984. 
"We were sitting watching television, had finished a niee dinner, everything was fine. Other people were in serious trouble. Then suddenly, we were moving," said Berman, who went with his wife to a friend's house a few miles away in Westlake. 
About 45 evacuees gathered at Canoga Park High School in the San Fernando Valley, where the Hed Cross had set up cots and provided meals. 
"Our house is still OK, but, oh, God, it's not a good feel­ing," said Phil Goldenberg, 53, who was at the school's gym with his wife and son. 

we were correct in placing greater emphasis -on combat­ing sexual assault and sexu­
Notre Dame's Department of Film, Television, and Theatre presents 
al harassment in the active and reserve components." He said more recent sur­
veys show lower rates of harassment and sexual assaults in the military. 
Interviewed between August 2002 and Mareh 2003 were men and women who had eompleted their serviee. No one in the Guard 
_,./ 

or Hosorvos at tlw tinw of' the research was quPs­tioned. 
Tlw study survoyPd thosP in tho Guard and HPsorvos from I950 to 2000; most of' the 4,000 respondl'nts 
servod  in  tho  IIJSOs  and  
I <J90s.  
The  survoy  nrhoos  ol't­ 

r e p oate d eon~~ IH n s abo u t snxual harassnwnt and assault in tlw military. In a report last yoar. tho Pentagon aeknowlndged problems in prevnnting, treating and investigating sexual assaults on military personnel. 
As a result, the Defense Department instituted broad new policies this year, requiring additional training and providing for confiden­tial reporting of assaults and harassment by victims. 
"We really are hammering into everybody that unless the answer is yes, the default setting for having sexual relations is no," Kaplan said. 
The report noted that 78 percent of the womon and <JO percent of the men did not report the incidents, and half or less of those who did said some aetion was taken to correct the situation. 
About 58 percent of the men who reported the inci­dent and 66 percent of the women said they wern encouraged to drop the mat­ter. 
Also, less than 14 percent of the men and 28 perennt of the women sought holp or treatment, and only about 1 percent went to the VA for that help. 
VA officials did not releasn the study, saying it was still in the final stages of review. 
Department spokesman Scott Hogenson, oxplaining the nearly two-year dnlay in releasing the study, said ol'fi­cials were checking the facts. 
lie said the agency has $13 million for counseling servie­es for sexual trauma vktims in the budgnt that starts Saturday. 
One in 10 said she was raped, nearly ·60 percent said they were verbally harassed, and the rest of the reports were for other types of incidents, according to the survey, which was released by Democratic members of Congress. 
In addition, more than 27 percent of male Guard and Heserve veterans said they experienced some type of sexual harassment or assault -most often by other men. 
"I am releasing the report, which I have obtained through other sources, to shine a light on a serious problems that the Whito House wants to hide in the shadows," said Hep. Lane Evans of Illinois, the top Democrat on the House Veterans' Affairs Committee. 
Defense Department spokesman Hoger Kaplan said the survey "tells us that 

RESTAURANT 
N·owHiring Experienced Server Apply in Person 
211 N. Main St. Downtown South Bend 
232.;4445 
www. SiamThaiSouthBend .com 
page 10 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 30, 2005 


Future of big hurricanes lootns after Katrina and Rita 
Experts say Americans can expect to be pummeled by more catastrophic tropical storms over the next 20 to 30 years 
Associated Press 
Have we seen America's future through the eyes of hurri­canes Katrina and Rita? 
Monster storms drowning cities and obliterating coast­lines. Jobs vanishing and prices rising as ports and pipelines close. Millions fleeing, but many are trapped and die. Chaos reigns, paralyzing government and leaving the world's wealthi­est society humbled and fright­ened. 
Natural disaster in the United States has morphed to a danger­ous new level. Some experts say the nation can expect to be pummeled by more of these mega-catastrophes over the next 20 or 30 years in a nasty. conspiracy of unfavorable weather patterns, changing demographics and political denial. 
A month after Katrina and one week after Rita. it's not clear how the Unitnd States will play the new hand that nature has apparently dealt. 
"Are we prepared to lose a major city every year?" asks Carnegie Mellon University risk strategist Baruch Pischhoff. "It's cowardice not to ask the ques­tion. and cowardice on the pub­lic's part not to get engaged in the answer." 
"We failed quite significantly," says sociologist Havidn Rodrguez, director of the Disaster Research Center at the University of Delaware. "Will what we've seen over the last few weeks continue to be the case? It could unless we pre­pare. People tend to forget les­sons learned. Governments tend to forget." 
Others cautiously see some hope in the waterlogged ruins of the Gulf Coast. They describe the latest hurricanes as a turn­ing point that could lead to improved public safety and infrastructure. 
"We often need events like this to change the mindset," said Mary C. Comerio, an architect and reconstruction researcher at the University of California­Berkeley. "And it's very hard to stop private investors and entre­preneurs from seeking opportu­nity. It's an amazing part of the American spirit." 
New Orleans and the Gulf Coast might even be a living lab­oratory for sustainable develop­ment and commerce that can withstand future calamities. For example, New Orleans' historic core might be reopened for tourism, but neighborhoods could be rebuilt on safer, firmer ground using more efficient 21st century technologies. 
Link the two with a train, one expert suggested. Oh, and better make it elevated. 
"The first rule of sustainability is to align with natural forces, or at least not try to defy them," said environmentalist Paul Hawken, a leading voice in the green design and green com­merce movements. "There is no reason to go backwards in redesigning the city." 
America's eastern and Gulf coasts always have been in the path of powerful storms. The nation's weather history occa­sionally has been splattered with other Category 4 and 5 hurricanes -the strongest, largest storms, which pack the punch of hundreds of nuclear weapons and have the most potential to devastate huge swaths of land. 
But since 1995, hurricanes 

have become more frequent and more intense. Some scientists say the United States is on the bad side of a natural storm cycle, while others notice the trend may coincide with the recent increase in air and sea temperatures attributed to glob­al warming. 
Statistics show the planet to be increasingly unsafe. Globally, mo"re than 2.5 billion people were affected by floods, earth­quakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters between 1994 and 2003, a 60 percent increase over the previous two 10-year periods, U.N. officials report. 
Those numbers don't even include the millions displaced by last December's tsunami, which killed an estimated 180,000 people. 
Damage to insured property around the world in 2004 by natural disasters totaled $49 bil­lion, according to the Zurich­based insurance giant Swiss Re. And that figure doesn't include the tsunami, either. Of the total, some calculations suggest that as much as $45 billion in losses came from a quartet of Florida hurricanes -Charley, Ivan, Frances and Jeanne. 
The overall insured loss for 2004 is more than twice the $23 billion annual average in prop­erty losses since 1987, confirm­ing a "discernible upward trend," Swiss Resaid. 
So what makes natural events potentially more disastrous now? The weather might be changing for the worse. But the real difference is demographics. 
How and where Americans live today make the nation espe­cially vulnerable to these unstoppable events. 
In the last several decades, the nation's population has migrated toward the coasts, and the value of possessions has increased substantially. · 
More than half of the nation's 297 million people live in coastal areas. Florida's popula­tion has increased fivefold since 1950, and now 80 percent live within 20 miles of salt water. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, seven of the nation's top 10 fastest growing states are coastal, including California, whose population has increased from 10 million in 1950 to more than 33 million today. 



IPIIDTALKSM 
TMI fAITIIT W ~ TO~ 
speedtf]lk~ 
Unlimited SpeedTalk Minutes Walkie-talkie-style service 
• 
1000 Anytime Minutes 

• 
$49.95 per month 


• 
AQLii· Instant Messengerrn service-FREE Trial 

• 
Buy 1 and get up to 3 LG UX4750 phones FREE (with 2-year contracts and mail-in rebates) 


*US.Cellular 
1-888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.COM 
Offer valid on two-year service agreement on local and national plans of $49.95 or higher. All service agreements subject to an early termination fee. Credit approval required. $30 activa­tion fee. $15 equipment change fee. Roaming charges, fees, surcharges, overage charges and taxes apply. $0.96 Regulatory Cost Recovery Fee charge applies. This is not a tax or govern­ment-required charge. Local network coverage and reliability may vary. Usage rounded up to the next full minute. Use of service constitutes acceptance of our terms and conditions. Use of the AOL• Instant Messenger"' service mobile application requires easyedge"' data services on the account. The length of the validity for the AOL~ Instant Messenger"" service Free Trial shall not exceed more than one full day's time. Buy one get three free only valid if a two-year service agreement is purchased for SpeedTalk service on all handsets and requires mail-in rebate per line. Promotional phone is subject to change. Allow 10-12 weeks for rebate processing. SpeedTalk: SpeedTalk capable handset required. SpeedTalk calls may only be made with other U.S. Cellular SpeedTalk subscribers."SpeedTalk is only available in U.S. Cellular's enhanced services coverage areas. While you are on a SpeedTalk call, your wireless calls will go direct­ly to voicemail. If you roam outside of U.S. Cellular's enhanced services coverage area you will not be able to place a SpeedTalk call. SpeedTalk is a proprietary service mark of U.S. Cellular. Other restrictions apply. See store for details. Limited time offer. ©2005 U.S. Cellular Corporation. 
Friday, September 30, 2005 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 

Wild gorillas use basic tools, researchers say 
Associated Press 
For the first lime, biologists have documented gorillas in the wild using simple tools, such as poking a stick in a swampy pool of water to check its depth. 
Until now, scientists had seen gorillas use tools only in captiv­ity. Among thn great apes, tool usn in the wild was thought to be a survival skill reserved for smallor chimpanzeos and orangutans. 
The researeh in the Hepublie of Congo's rainforests was IHd by Thomas Breuer of the Wildlifo Conservation Soeiety at the Bronx Zoo, whieh released dntails of his study. Breuer is in J\frka and was not immediately available for an interview. 
"This is a truly astounding diseovery," hn said in a state­ment. "Tool usage in wild apos provides us with valuablo insights into the evolution of our own speeies and the abili­ties of other spedl's." 
"New studies like this 

Othor scientists Fund in said the obsnrva­show that especially Washington, D.C. tions were lie has conducted
lowland gorillas are

important, but gorilla field stud­
very chimplike in 

not surprising. ies since 1980. He 
Breuer's obser­their abilities. " did not contribute vations were to Breuer's mado late last • report.
Richard Carroll 

ynar in a marshy "Gorillas are 
Africa program director 

elnaring called very intelligent, Mfmli Baia loeat­World Wildlife Fund but they don't 
Science) Biology. Video of the gorillas will be broadcast Saturday on the PBS program "Wild Chronicles." 
Fairly or not, gorillas have been considered less capable than other great apes, in part because they have not been as extensively studied. 
Chimps, for example, have been continuously observed in the field for 40 years since Jane Goodall launched her landmark study at Gombe Stream in Tanzania. They have become stars of television documen­taries and glossy magazine arti­cles, displaying their extensive of use of rocks to break open hard-shelled nuts and sticks to "fish" termites from mounds. 
In contrast, gorillas are much larger, stronger and slower. 
"Chimps are portrayed as the super-ape and gorillas are the big brutes in the forest," said Richard Carroll, a primate export and direetor of the Africa program at the World Wildlife 
nd in Nouabai-Ndoki National Park where monitoring has bnnn ongoing since February 11JIJ5. 
Tlw nrst ins tanee was obsnrved last Oetober when a fmnah~ gorilla (nicknamed Leah by seiontistsl attompted to wade through a pool of watnr ernawd by nlephants, but found lwrself' waist deep after only a f'ew steps. Climbing out of the pool. she retrieved a braneh from a dead treo and used the stiek to lost the depth of the water. 
In NovmnbPr, a second f'emalo gorilla (named Efi) used a detadwd tron trunk to support lwrself' with one hand while digging f'or lwrbs with the other hand. She also used the tree trunk as a bridgo to cross a muddy pateh or ground. 
I>ntails of the findings are bning publislwd in thn onlirw journal PLoS (l'ublie Library of have to be as deli­
cate as chimps _ they can just smash open the termite nest," said Carroll, who a deeade ago reported observ­ing gorillas using stieks to ward off attacking lnopards. 
"New studies like this show that especially lowland gorillas are very chimplike in their abil­ities," he said. 
Carroll said the new study was made possible by the establishment of protected parks in Congo by agreements betwnon conservation groups, international agencies and the government. The populations of gorillas and other groat apes are severely imperiled by log­ging, hunting and outbreaks of the Ebola virus. And, civil war in Congo has made field science dangerous for years. 
"It's a tributn to conservation efforts that allow people to sit and observe and not be in fear of their lives," he said. 
SPAIN 


Africans flee destitution 
Associat~d Press 

MELILLA -Climbing ladders fashioned from tree branches, hundreds of Africans from the continent's poorest countries threw themselves over razor­wire fences Thursday to gain a foothold in Europe -the latest human avalanche seeking entry into a pair of barren Spanish enelaves in Morocco. 
Five people were killed trying to enter the city of Ceuta, two reportedly shot from the Moroccan side. Spain called out army troops with automatic weapons to patrol the frontier there and in Melilla, another centuries-old Spanish city on the northern coast of the only African country with land bor­dering a member of the European Union. 
·Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, speaking after a summit with his Moroccan counterpart Driss Jettou, promised a thorough investigation but avoided point­ing fingers. 
"It is premature to arrive at conclusions," Zapatero said. 
Spain is used to heartbreak­ing stories of destitute Africans risking their lives to reach Europe's southern gateway in hopes of starting a new life. 
Dangerously overcrowded boats -often with women who are pregnant or carrying infants -cross the Strait of Gibraltar from Morocco to reach the Spanish mainland. Youths cling to the underside of trucks being ferried aeross the treacherous waterway. Men podal across in bicycle-like ves­sels. 
And while midnight dashes up and over the fimces outside Melilla and Ceuta are nothing new, the volume of the human waves doing so rose dramati­cally this summor and partieu­larly this woek. 
On Tuesday alone, two sepa­rate groups of 500 rushed the frontier at Melilla, aQd Spain says about 300 made it in. Last year there were seven such attempts, but so far this year the numbnr is up to around 25, including nine sinee the end of August. 
"In the last few days we have had a different phenomenon, an avalanche of immigrants not seen before that surely has cir-cumstantial causes that we will combat," Zapatero said Thursday. 

At least three Africans diod in recent crossings, but Thursday's deaths were the first to include reports of gun­fire. 
The Spanish government said two Africans died on Spanish soil and three in Morocco. The national news agency Efe quot­ed sources close to the investi­gation as saying two of the bod­ies found on the Spanish side had gunshot wounds from behind, suggesting they had been shot from the Moroccan side. 
lie spoke as many of the new arrivals in· Melilla -virtually all of them young black men, from countries like Nigeria, Mali, Cameroon and elsewhere -lined up for meals under a hot, muggy sun or rested in tents set up to accommodate them at a now-overflowing holding center built years ago. 
Eric Aborah, 17, said he left his native Ghana 2 1/2 years ago on an odyssey through a half-dozen countries in Afriea before making it to Morocco, where he spent eight months living in the forest bd'ore cross­ing into Melilla on Tuesday. 
Felix Akah, a 33-year-old electrician from Cameroon, said he lost his job when the French company he worked for was bought by Americans and lw could no longer support his wife and two daughters, aged 1 and 
3. He said it took him almost nine months to make his way north to Morocco, hoping to find work in Spain or elsewhere in Europe. 
He, J\borah and others described their feat of' climbing ladders fashioned from tree branches held together with bicyde inner tubes or strips of fabric and crossing two 1 0-foot razor wire fences -separated by a thin strip of' land -in the middle of the night. 
It works like this: prop the ladder against the first fence, climb to the top, try not to fall as a colleague hands you anoth­er one, then scamper down and use that second laddor to scaln the second fence. Then, just jump. 
"It is not easy to dimb and you only have to give everything to God and jump," said Aborah. 
Zapatero's political opponcnl'> contend the recent human waves were instigated by Morocco, which elaims both Ceuta and Melilla, pnrhaps to put pressure on the Spanish prime ministnr at Thursday's summit. 
Aborah, asknd if' Morocean authorities urgnd him to make the crossing, said he did it becausn he hnard a largo ~-,rroup of men wern going to makn their move Tuosday and he sim­ply joined in. 
The opposition Popular Party says Zapatero's Socialist gov­ernnwnt is in part to blame fi1r the influx, arguing that an amnesty it pushed through Parliament this year for thou­sands of' undocumentnd for­eigners is luring many other Africans in the mistaken bnlinf' they too can get papers. 
Walt Disney Co. gives African art collection to Smithsonian 
Donated artwork includes 525 pieces representing 75 peoples and 20 countries; some works date to 15th century 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -J\ major collection of Afriean artwork, somo dating to the 1400s, was donated Thursday to the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of African Art. 
The Walt Disney-Tishman CollfH:tion, 525 pieces in all, ineludes most major styles of African Art and represfmts 7 5 peoplns and 20 countries. 
"This is a collection that has been sought al'ter by everyone in tho museum world because it is so great," said Smithsonian Secretary Lawronce Small. "Finally, for reasons I wholeheartedly agree with, it came here." 
The Walt Disney Co.'s outgo­ing chief executive, Michael Eisner, said over the ynars the company had fielded numer­ous requests for the collection. He said there were rnpeated calls from French President Jacques Chirac, who wanted specific pieces to be displayed in the Louvre Museum in Paris. 
"It became clear that this kind or collection was inappro­priate in a warehouse," Eisner said, adding that it also became obvious that the Smithsonian, a museum for all Americans, was the best repository. 
While some pieces in the col­lection have remained in the warehouse, museum curator Bryna Freyer said Disney has been extremely generous in lending particular pieces to museums around the world, and the National Museum of African Art will continue to loan out pieces. 
The museum will include a few of the pieces in exhibits in the next few months. After February 2007, it will main­tain at least 60 pieces at all times, and the items displayed may change. 
Museum curators said the donation will fill gaps in their current collection and help them to better demonstrate themes in African Art. 
Some of the objects have already been on display at the Smithsonian, including a 15th­century hunting horn from Sierra Leone and several ivory armlets made for Nigerian kings. 
Others are more recent, such as a 20th-century headdress mask from the Calabar region of Nigeria. Made from wood covered with antelope skin, the mask depicts a woman whose long hair is curled like horns in a style once worn during girls' coming-out cere­monies. 
Curator Christine Mullen Kreamer said the museum will now have one of the nation's best collections of skinned 
masks from that region. 
The collection was bought by Disney in 1984 from New York real estate developer Paul Tishman and his wife. Huth, who began collecting African art in the early 1960s. 
Because some of the pieces are so rare· and African art prices have risen so mueh in recent years, the exact valun of the collection has not boon determined. Museum curators are not even familiar with many of the items. 
"I tend to consider a numbor of the pieces priceless," said Freyer, "but you can't put that on an insurance form." 
Disney declined to say how mueh the collection is insured. 
THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, September 30, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 
ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1 @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.J@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-.8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POliCIES The Observer is the independenr, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. C.-ommentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Oh$t'rvtr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday lhrough Friday accpt during uam and vacation periods. A sub5criprion ro Tht Observer is $100 for one academic yam S55 for one $etnestc:r. 
11le Ob$Crvc:r is publlsbc:d <~f1 POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send addte,q: corrw:ions t-o: 
None Dame, IN 465')6..0779 Thcom.r-" 
P.criodical postage: paid at Nom: DanK" P.O. Box 779 
md .uMirional mailing off~a:J. Q24 Sooth Dining H~ 
Nou-: Damc:,IN-46.5'56--0779 
The Observer is.;~. member ofthe ~tt:d Pl'csli, All repm:d.uaion rights are .~. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Katie Perry Mike Gilloon Karen Langley Tom Dorwart Jenny Hames Jason Galvin 
Viewpoint Scene Sarah Falvey Liz Byrum Graphics Kelly MacDonald 

The heart of Notre Dame 
Notre Dame is one of the most-watched Universities in the forget to appreciate the reason sports exist. country. Because of its reputation, every move draws intense Sports allow people the opportunity to feel a part of some­media scrutiny, support and criticism. And lately, there has thing bigger than themselves. They are here for people who been a little more criticism than support. watch a game with their family, to enjoy great athletic per­
After the University fired former football head coach formances and spend time together in the process. They Tyrone Willingham last November, many people around cam­exist for people who follow Notre Dame -students, alumni pus and the nation were offended that the University would and fans who have no direct connection but admire the dismiss a coach only three years into his con­school-to claim a sense of belonging. tract. And the fact Willingham was the first OJhe That community was exactly what Weis black head coach in any sport ever at Notre userver exemplified when he honored Montana's wish Dame made the criticism all the more inflam­and called a "pass right" in the opening play of matory. the game on Saturday. Weis recognized this
Editorial

The University drew perhaps more bad press University is more than just its students, facul­
than eyer before. Former Irish players such as Chris Zorich and Aaron Taylor condemned the school for its action. In a taped interview with Willingham last Saturday, ABC's John Saunders broached the subject again, with a line of questioning suggesting Willingham's firing was racially motivated. 
So the recent story of new head coach Charlie Weis and his promise to call a play for 10-year-old Montana Mazurkiewicz, who Weis said died Sept. 22 of brain cancer, is a reminder of what this University truly represents. The story was a welcome one for Notre Dame football fans, whether they agreed with Willingham's firing or not. 
lt is a story the nation can look at to remind itself why sports are important in the first place. 
The firing of one millionaire coach and the hiring of anoth­er should not be the focus of sports. But too often the media and the public forget this -they argue about the details and 
ty, administrators and alumni. It's also about those, like Montana, who have never attended a class but still feel like part of the Notre Dame family. 
The heart of Notre Dame -and sports in general -lies in kids like Montana, who loved Notre Dame football so much that only a visit from Weis could make him smile. 
In 20 years, no one will rnmember the final score of last week's game at Washington. No one will recall how many yards Brady Quinn threw for or how many tackles Brandon Hoyte made. Hardly anyone will worry about how Weis com­pared to Willingham in their much-hyped meeting. No one should care now. 
In the light of Montana's story, everyone will reflect and remember there are more important things in life than the development of the West Coast offense. And because of Weis, everyone can now remember what the true family spirit of this University really means. 

Following the leader 
By now you've surely heard the story. It has been covered by both the local and national media. Headlines such as "Weis Uses Play Called By Dying Ten­Year-Old Boy" and "Weis Honors Dying Boy By Using His Called Play" have appeared in news­stands across the country all week. This will likely be the feel good story of the year (yes, that even goes for a win over USC or a BCS game). Over the past few days, we've all N0b0 d L ·k 
become familiar with Y l es a
Dumb Blonde 
Charlie Weis granti­ng Montana Mazurkiewicz's dying wish during Saturday's game, but it is important to reflect on the magnitude of what hap­pened. 

Many of us get carried away with Notre Dame Football. I am related to plenty of people who place almost too great an emphasis on the Fighting Irish; heck, I do it myself. However, what happened last Saturday, amidst perhaps the biggest media circus of the college football season, put Notre Dame Football into proper perspective. 
The Mazurkiewicz family is unques­tionably a clan of die-hard Notre Dame fans. Anyone who has their doubts need only look at the names of the fam­ily's two sons: Rockne and Montana. Instead of opting for more traditional names, the Mazurkiewicz's chose to name their children after Notre Dame's greatest coach and its most recogniza­ble player. Perhaps Montana had no choice but to be a fan of the Fighting 

OBSERVER POLL 
How have you gotten in trouble at Notre Dame? 
a. 
Home 

b. 
South Bend police 

c. 
ResLife 

d. 
Dorm 

e. 
Nothing 


*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 351 responses. 
Irish, but at the mere age of 10, he proved to be one until the bitter end. 
Last week Montana, who was suffer­ing from an inoperable brain tumor, was given an opportunity to meet the head coach of his favorite football team. lie was in a great deal of pain and his prognosis was not good. However, the young boy was thrilled to talk to Charlie Weis when he came to his home last week. 
They talked about his namesake, Joe Montana; they talked about the loss to Michigan State; they talked about life. Weis asked Montana if there was any­thing he could do for him. Coach Weis knew he could not save the boy's life, but he wanted to do something to make Montana's last days just a little brighter. He suggested that Montana pick what the Irish's first play against Washington would be. Montana decid­ed that the game should open with a "pass right." 
Sadly, Montana passed away on Friday, and he never got an opportuni­ty to watch the Irish take the field against Washington. Upon hearing that Montana had died, Coach Weis called the Mazurkiewicz's to offer his condo­lences. In doing so, he reminded the grieving family, "This game is for Montana, and the play still stands." 
As it turned out, Notre Dame's first play on Saturday came from its own 1 yard-line; a place from which teams rarely pass. Weis, having put football in its proper perspective, kept his promise to Montana, dismissed conventional wisdom, and called for a "pass right." We'll never really know if it was skill or divine intervention, but Brady Quinn completed Montana's pass to Anthony Fasano for a 13-yard gain. 


:.,. 
Montana's story shows us how truly lucky we are to be part of the Notre Dame family. We are lucky to have a compassionate coach who is willing to run an ill-advised play in order to make a difference. We are lucky to have a leader who understands the importance of winning-both on and off the lield. We are lucky to once again have a coach who understands the magir and mystique of Notre Dame Football and is not afraid to put his faith in it. We am all lucky to be a part of an institution that has sueh an impact on people's lives that it can help comfort a dying boy in his last days. 
It all seems so simple: a good man doing what he could to fulfill a child's last wish. In reality, Coach Weis put an awful lot on the line when he called lit­tle Montana Mazurkiewicz's play dur­ing Saturday's game. He also helped put things into perspective. Wins and losses are important. (I'm sure that Notre Dame's storied football tradition had a lot to do with the Mazurkiewicz's affinity towards the University.) However, there are also moments when winning a football game becomes sec­ondary. It is these moments-when we applaud the team after a loss, when we win one for the Gipper, or when a coach calls a play for a dying boy ­that the true spirit of Notre Dame shines through. 
Molly Acker is a senior at Saint Mary's. She is a double major in communication studies and humanistic studies. Contact her at acke6 758@saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"There are only two kinds ofpeople who are really fascinating: people who know absolutely everything. and people who know absolutely nothing. " 
Oscar Wilde Playwright 


THE OnsERVER 

IEWPOINT
Friday, September 30, 2005 page 13 
U-WIRE 
Of levees and foreign wars 
LPadnrs ofthn antiwar movement have wastod no the sort of person who tends to think that our efforts in war in Iraq? Why not say that the levees wnro breached time in adding Katrina to the list of reasons we shouldn't Iraq are mostly benign. If we must choose between because we spent too much on AIDS relief'? The logic is b1~ in Iraq. doing good abroad and taking care of each other at the same. 
Tho protests in Washington this past weekend fea­home, isn't the choice obvious? Of course, all of us would n~cognizn that thorn is no tured Katrina-thenwd wordplays such as, "Make Levees, Even the most ardent antiwar aetivists should be wary connection whatsoever bntween our sponding on AIDS Not War." The Washin),'ion Post quot­of this logic. The crucial "choice" on which Byrd's essay relief and our failure to adequately preparn for Katrina. nd orw protnstnr who claimed that the Jeremy is premised does not really exist. Does the Senator actu­It's a total non-sequitur. Why, then, should we accept a hurrkann had hnlpnd solidify her Golubcow ally expect us to believe that we can have either levees parallel link between Katrina and Iraq'? opposition to Prnsident Bush's agen­or foreign interventions-but never both'? Are our I am perfectly happy to have Sen. Byrd argue that the
Princeton
da: "I Hurricane Katrina! made clear resources so very limited that we must abdicate any war in Iraq is intrinsically unjust or unproductive. If' thn
University
that while we spend all this money active role in world afl'airs on the grounds that "our own war is not a worthwhile enterprise, then it should bn
The Daily
trying to imposn our will on other people are so much in need"'? Surely, there is something abandoned for that reason-and not bncausn we're
Princetonian
eountrins, here at home in our own perverse about the pretense that our nation is too needy afraid we can't multi-task. The war may or may not be eountry, Wf~ ean 't take care of each other." to remain active on a global stage. justifiable, but we face no ultimate, existnntial choke 
I Sl'n. Hobert Byrd 11>-W.V.I elaborates on this argument I worry, though, that Sen. Byrd's thinking may catch between levees and wars. ·I 
I 
in an opnd published on Sept. 18 in the Baltimore Sun. on among the rank and file of the Democratic Party. In Byrd notes that "there are many missions to aceom­Tho Sonator asks, "Who among us has not wondnred if the wake of Katrina, we seem to be absorbed in a plish here on our own soil," as though thn vnry existnncn tlw nfTorts to reseue and evaeuat!l Gulf Coast residents moment of national self-pity. Byrd's nco-isolationism of these missions somehow nullifies thn importance of sufTnrnd bneause too many National Guardsmen have taps into this self-pity in a way that totally undercuts the missions condueted on foreign soil. Tho fall<u:y is glar­bnm1 detailed to Iraq?" IIn reasons that "we cannot con­future of progressive foreign policy. How can we argue ing. There might be several valid arguments for stand­tinuo to eornmit billions in Iraq when our own people for intervention in Darfur if the neediness of our own ing· down in Iraq. But Hurricane Katrina isn't one of arn so much in need, not only in New Orleans, but pnople is thought to be overwhelming'? How can we them. throughout America." argue for an increase in the foreign aid budget if we're 
We can easily imagine why this argumentative strate­anxious about every cent that doesn't go toward improv­This column originally appeared in the .C.,'ept. 29 issue gy might work. By suggesting that the war has eome at ing our domestic infrastructure'? ofThe Daily Princetonian, the daily publication at tho expnnse of vital dornostk priorities, Byrd casts the Byrd maintains that the neglect which led to the dev­Princeton University. invasion of Iraq as an unafTordable luxury. The beauty astation of New Orleans resulted from an overambitious The views expressed in this column are those ofthe of this approaeh is that it eould conceivably persuade international agenda. But why stop at criticism of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsen,er. 
Ainerica hungers for energy while rejecting conservation 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Discrim.ination saddening 
As if denying homosexuals the right to legal marriage wernn't enough, the Catholic Church, who has already largnly alionated the gay population, may now bn considnring limiting the prinsthood to heterosexuals. Of course, it must bP becaus1~ bning homosexual automatically makes you a pedophile. A nearly coherent argu­nwnt against why marriage is rnstrided to heti~rosexuals is still not quite so dnar to me. 
So what all this means is, if you are gay, you can't have a valid relation­ship with another person of your sex or commit yourself to a life of chastity through the priesthood. According to the church, it is "obj1~ctively disor­dered" to act upon homosexual dnsires, ynt if a homosnxual, realizing that in order to he a good Catholic t.lwy must dwosn a lifo of celibacy, would like to dwos1~ tlw priesthood, it will no longer be an option. 
llonwsnxuals are discriminated against by a large faction of the popu­lation (as proven by the 13 states that passed anwndnwnts banning gay marriagn last November), rnfused a basic civil right, and now possibly r1~fusml thn right to follow the church's teaching and their religious ntlling. To me, all the discrimination that is occurring against homosexuals is so blatantly rl:'miniscent of other historical American (and human) blunders regarding race, religion, nationality and the like, that for on<~e I can say I can understand how peo­ple can stand by and watch these tragedies occur. It's not that we are all just standing by; the problem is that trying to fix the problem is like yelling at a brick wall. 
I proudly won~ my "Gay, Fine by Me" shirt, yet it saddens me that these shirts am even necessary. Why should we have to proclaim that being homosexual is line by us? Isn't this no difTerent that wearing a shirt prodaiming "Black, Fine by Me," or "Jewish, Fine by Me?" We are all peo­ple, why is it that whenever we turn around there is anothor segment or our population being discriminated against'? Why does someone's sexual orientation matter so much to us? I drnam of a day when there is no mar­ginalized sector of raee, gender, nationality, religion or sexual orienta­tion; but will that day over come'! 
Claire Sloss freshman McGlinn Hall Sept. 28 




EDITORIAL CARTOON 

191/lh ~~1D~~ 
caglecartoons.com ~ 

Vf!j, ~R, I'M AFr<Aro W~AT MICHAEL GRIFRN :AID rs Th'IJ~. YOU WSRE A'MISTAKE,'' BUT 11-IAT ~N1T" 
I 

MGAN W£ WVE YOU ANY [.E$5... 
1
..., 

BIG REVELATIONS AT THE NASA FAMILY TAB~E ... 
In rnennt months, l'vn notieed more pno­pln an~ compnllml to trade in gas-guzzling vnhidns fc1r fud-nllidont onns. But now, in the aftnrmath of tim eatastrophic duo of' hurrkarms Katrina and Hita, the oil indus­try is left like an nle­
Consuela

phant hanging on a 

Headrick

win~. and people may bn foreod to trade their 
San Diego

vnhides in for Vnspas. 
State

Sadly, it's improbabln 
University

that Amnriea will turn 
1he Daily Aztec

into a motorbikn-loving nation likn Italy. To Anwrkans, biggnr is always better. It's this warped mfmtality that parallels our glut­tonous eonsumption of energy, which will have an oven morn pronouncnd impact when winter arrivns. 
On Monday, Prnsident Bush urged American citizens to use public transporta­tion in light of the country's curnmt energy challenges. In 1979, Prnsident Jimmy Carter, who begged Americans to conserve while putting up with high gas priees and gas shortages, made similar pleas. Following his requests, Carter received malicious criticism and his approval rat­ings dropped lower than those of Nixon during the Watnrgate scandal. 
During the speech on July 15, 1979, President Carter didn't deny any wrongdo­ing on his part. I Ie admitted it whole-heart­edly. 
Even after his eloquent speech, few American sought to change their habits, but at least national policies concerning energy conservation were implemented. 
I doubt Bush will ever admit his complici­ty in America's energy wasting, nor is he likely to view American's rampant materi­alism as a problem, but it would be inter­esting to see what would happen if he did. However, even if Bush was as compassion­ate and thoughtful as Carter, it doesn't mean the majority of Americans would pay him any heed. 
To this day, public transportation is viewed as low-class instead of economical. Also, a false sense of urgency is the norm, and, as a consequence, people prnfer speeding on the streets rather than taking a bus. Americans are neck-deep in indifl'er­ence and there's no way spirit<> can be revi­talized by any spench. 
I hope, one day soon, America will embrace conservation and mmbat high energy priees bnlim~ they skyrocket. Because ifwe use up too much of our Strategie Petroleum Hesnrvns, which Bush is presm1tly tapping into to lwlp lowor gas priees, wn could be headed toward an energy disaster. 
Take caution Ameriea: Spend bumps ahnad. 
This column originally appeared in lite .'iept. 29 issue of17w Daily Aztec, the daily publication at 5ian /Jiego state l lrzitwrsity. 
The views expressed irz this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 14 
Friday, September 30, 2005 
scene 
has not 
Harriet 
cian and ic a 
explained that, "over the 
years there has not been a 
music." 
She emphasized that a 

work goes into bringing th 
the campus. She recounte 
the past few years the 
scene has grown steadily 
Bend area, affecting the 
Notre Dame and Saint 
However, the grea 

that has led to the 
music at the Un 
world. He t Show. 
another set of s College. Their em the keys to the e never played at the 
in the great songs and their capacities, but also in their portray the narrative. This is so that all of their listeners away from the experi­necessarily knowing the 
context of the songs. Makem and the Makem 
are exceptional because the have for their music and supersedes their distin­ent. The New York Times s the band, claiming that, m could make every one of his feel part Irish and proud of 
Dame will 


"I ley tlwrn. Wokome baek. You're lis­tening to WVFI: Voiee of the Fighting Irish. Corning up next we've got some .Jason Mraz f(,Jlowed by Coldplay. I Jere it is. on WVFI." 
Still mastPring tlw ll~rhniqun of a smooth Kelly Clancy transition period, I 
Scene

fumhiP with thP rnkro­
Columnist

phonP as my eo-DJ, .Ja.rw. makos sure that tlw .Jason Mraz single is ready to go. It only takes livn seconds of air time to real­izn that tho volumo levels aren't on target and tlwn anotlwr live to eonligure them corrnrtly. Finally, about 15 radio station eame up and as soon as she also exprnssed internst in broadcasting, it was settled. We could do tlw show togeth­er -it would be great. All we needed was a name, ideas, motivation for a show and a completed application. 
We decided to put out to tlw world what could only be hidden on radio and was obvious in real life -.Jane's Asian heritage and my Irish heritage. We had an idea, now it was time for a name. Potato Wontons'? Nope. Oriental Shamroeks? Delinitnly not. Potato Sushi! That was it. For some reason, it dieknd in our culture-foeused minds. 
Via email, Jane and I sent 

seconds in ( llny, we're only in our applieation after
Broadcasting live 
freshnwn lwrn), we're set. some deliberation. Our goal 'Curbside l'roplwt' is now across the World was to keep people cultur­smoothly streaming across Wide Web certainly ally focused, to at times tlw Internet. contrast and compare
wasn't something I 
Broadeasting live aeross Asia/Ireland, to note our tho World Wi{le Wob eer­had anticipated New York and California tainly wasn't something I doing at Notre baekgrounds, and of course had anlicipatnd doing at to generally make fun of
Dame.
Notrn Danw. Collegn radio each other. At the WVFI was a far ery from what my meeting for show picks high sehool radio station had bnen-fac­.Jane and I were anxious to get one of' the ulty monitored, boasting a one and a half spots that go to last-pick freshmen. milo hroad1:ast radius. There, random However, our opportunity soon appeared nothingness was the on-air -the gorgeous little blank 
topil: of d10iee with a box labeled "Saturday 3-4
We had an idea, now
ratlwr haphazardly assem­p.m." We were in, finally bled play list. llnm in col­it was time for a destined for the airwaves. loge, with an aetual audi­So what did I learn from
name. Potato 
onel~. tlw set up was a bit all of this, in the end?
Wantons? Nope. 
dif'f'orent. I>Js aetually College is all about trying SJHHtk to koep internst Oriental Shamrocks? things out and seeing what among tlw listerwrs and clicks. No one should let
Definitely not. Potato 
evon have thmnnd, their own hesitations stop
Sushi! That was it.
plann1~d-out shows. them from doing some-
Wlwn lirst teasing with the idna of going on air here on campus, I was apprehnnsive. Would college radio be too demanding? Too nerve-wracking? Too tonse? With a much larger audience, would I bn able to keep people listening and also be interesting? Besides all of that, who would I go on the air with? 
On1) l'asquerilla East freshman and two brainstorming snssions later, my worries subsided. I had met my soon-to-be DJ friond .Jann through a dorm movie night. 1\ventually, the idea of my being on the 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Friday, September 30, 2005 
page 15 
COLUMN 
A peek inside WVFI NOTRE DAME'S Freshman makes her big debut BEST... ~-~ 
BY OBSERVER PHOTO STAFF 

thing that may be com­pletely awesome. 
Take a lnsson from Jason Mraz, who's got 30 seconds left on the air until Coldplay takes over-don't worry your life away. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthu author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Kelly Clancy is a freshman who works for WvH. Contact her at kclancy 1 @nd. edu. 
...... 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, September 30, 2005 
MLB -AMERICAN LEAGUE 
White Sox clinch division, forget late collapse 
After making the division race interesting with the Cleveland Indians, Chicago beats Detroit, wins first title since 2000 
Associated Press ningest pitcher since Nolan and the Indians, who conceded Ryan in 1974, leading Los the AL Central title to Chicago 
The Chicago White Sox hoot­Angeles over the Oakland earlier in the day, stayed tied for ed, hollered and screamed like Athletics. the wild-card lead by rolling to a kids as they ran down a skinny "I don't see much debate," win over the Tampa Bay Devil hallway toward their plastic­Angels manager Mike Sciascia Rays. lined clubhouse. said. "I think he's absolutely the In salvaging the series finale, 
After flirting with one of the Cy Young Award winner. For the Indians (93-66) snapped a worst collapses· in baseball his­what he's done for this team, three-game losing streak that tory, the White Sox earned the getting us into the playoffs and helped the White Sox hold onto right to douse each other with being the top dog, it's clear to their dwindling lead and clinch champagne. me." the division. Cleveland is tied 
Chicago got a clinch, not a col­Colon (21-8) gave up one run with the Boston Red Sox atop lapse. and five hits in five innings, the wild-card standings with 
Paul Konerko homered to throwing 80 pitches. He pitched three games left. back Freddy Garcia and the on three days' rest to get on Even if they sweep three from White Sox held off Detroit for a schedule for starting Los the White Sox this weekend, the 4-2 victory Thursday for their Angeles' playoff opener Indians won't win the division first AL Central title since 2000. Tuesday. crown. But they would capture 
"That team worked so hard all "This was exactly what I was the wild card, which as recent year long, they deserve to do looking for," Colon said. "It was postseason history has shown what they're doing now," good to come out of it nice. isn't such a bad thing. The last Chicago manager Ozzie Guillen Working on three days' rest, I three World Series champions said with champagne-slicked put more emphasis on finishing -Boston, Florida and the hair. "Finally, they can say, 'We well." Angels -all entered the post­did it!' A lot of teams made it Colon and Yankees reliever season as wild cards. • tough on us. It wasn't easy." Mariano Rivera are viewed as "When the White Sox were 15 
Chicago had a 15-game lead the top contenders for the Cy games ahead, we were looking in the division on Aug. 1, then Young. at the wild card anyway," saw it dwindle to 1 1/2 games I'm not going to add or sub­Sabathia said. "Now, it's up for last weekend as Cleveland tract to my numbers any more grabs." for 12 of his 17 major league consecutive AL East crown. closed. The White Sox survived so there's nothing I can do about seasons. "It'll be unbelievable. It's a shaky ninth inning against it," Colon said. "It will be wel­Seattle 4, Rangers 3 Seattle's Ryan Franklin (8-15) always a playoff atmosphere Detroit to win their AL-best 96th come and a privilege, and I Kenny Rogers gave up all four gave up three runs and six hits when you play the Red Sox," game and will start the playoffs needed a good team behind me Seattle runs in what was likely in six innings, throwing 116 Giambi said. "It will be a lot of at home next week. just to be a candidate." his final start for the Texas pitches. Eddie Guardado pitched fun." 
"It was a little tight at the end, After giving up six runs and Rangers, a loss to the Mariners. the ninth for his 35th save ih 40 Alex Rodriguez had two hits but we pulled it out," Konerko 10 hits in five innings against Rogers (14-8) gave up nine chances. and scored twice for the said. Tampa Bay on Sunday, Colon hits and three earned runs in six Richie Sexson had three hits Yankees, who built an 8-0 lead 
Chicago clinched because allowed only one runner past innings. The 40-year-old left­and two RBis for the Mariners, in winning for the 15th time in Cleveland can at best tie the second base. He has the most bander was quoted as saying in who drew just 19,781-the 18 games. White Sox, and no team can fin­wins for the Angels since Ryan Thursday's editions of The first crowd under 20,000 in the After the victory, the Yankees ish second in another division went 22-16 in 1974, but his ERA Dallas Morning News: "''m pret­5 1/2-year history of Safeco watched the Red Sox beat with 96 wins or more. If the AL is 3.48 and he's allowed 26 ty certain this is my last start Field. Toronto, which held a 4-1 lead Central is decided by a tiebreak­home runs, including seven in here. Actually, I'm extremely in the fifth inning. When David er, it would go to the White Sox, his last three starts. certain. I think everybody has New York Yankees 8, Ortiz got the game-winning hit, who have an 11-5 lead over the Colon is 11-2 following Angels made their positions known. Baltimore 4 the Yankees began packing for Indians in the season series, and losses. He lost consecutive deci­"In a way, I'm kind of relieved. The preliminaries are over. their trip to Boston. Cleveland would be the wild sions just once, against Seattle I know I won't have to bend The New York Yankees brushed "You figured they would come card. and Minnesota on July 7 and 16. over backwards to make it hap­aside Baltimore to preserve back," Giambi said. "They're 
"It's a great feeling," Guillen pen. I think sometimes in the their lead in the AL East, and hot, we're hot, so it should be a said. "This first step is a big step Cleveland 6, Tampa Bay 0 past, my desire to be here has now they're headed to Boston good series. You couldn't ask for because a lot of people don't The mind-bending mathemat­been the overriding factor for hoping to fmish the job. a better ending, no doubt about realize how hard it is to just get ics and head-scratching scen~r­me, and at least I know where I Aaron Small took a one-hitter it." to the playoffs." ios aren't so complicated. And stand." into the seventh inning to Small gave up two runs and 
The White Sox close the regu­the big weekend series isn't Rogers was suspended by improve to 10-0, and the four hits in 6 2-3 innings, strik­lar season with three games at quite so big anymore, either. commissioner Bud Selig for 20 Yankees got homers from Jason ing out four and walking five. Cleveland. For the Cleveland Indians, it's games and fined $50,000 follow­Giambi and Hideki Matsui in After breezing through the first 
What does the series mean? become pretty simple: three ing an altercation with two tele­cruising past the Orioles. six innings, the right-hander "Nothing," said Mark Buehrle, wins and they're in the AL play­vision cameramen in June. The The victory enabled the gave up a two-run homer to Friday's scheduled starter. offs. suspension was cut to 13 games Yankees to maintain a one-game Javy Lopez in the seventh. "Anyway we can get in is by an arbitrator. advantage in the division over The Orioles then loaded the Angels 7, Athletics 1 fme," C.C. Sabathia said. "I just Texas decided not to discuss a the Red Sox, who rallied past bases with two outs before 
Bartolo Colon made a final want to get in, period. We all new contract with Rogers' Toronto 5-4. The longtime rivals Tanyon Sturtze retired Chris pitch for the AL Cy Young know what we have to do." agent, Scott Boras, until after play three times at Fenway Park Gomez on a grounder. Award. Sabathia pitched eight shutout the season. Roger is on his third this weekend, and two wins Small has won his last five 
Colon became the Angels' win-innings, Travis Hafner homered stint with the Rangers, his team would give New York its eighth starts. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
For Sale at $119,900.  YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apart- NEED USC & TENN TIX & PARK­ 
LOST AND FOUND  FoR SALE  Mickey Kane 286-8209.  ments available for 06-07 school year.  TICKETS  lNG PASS. 574-276-8507.  
Call today 235-7234.  A FARM FAMILY NEEDS 2 OR 4  
FOUND: Man s NO class ring at  NO FANS For Sale: Cabin 25 mi.  FoR RENT  WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  USC TIX. WILL PAY A FAIR PRICE.  
Castlepoint Apts. MSU weekend.  from NO.  BLUE & GOLD HOMES. Best rates  TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570.  654-0169 (local call)  
Call Judy at 272-8110 to identify &  Wooded gated community with lake  AWARD REALTY  for weekend, monthly & yearly  
claim.  access. 3 BD 2BA loft, screened  GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH- rentals.  FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  
porch, FP, $295,000.  BORHOODS  574-250-7653.  289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEB­ PERSONALS  
Call619-606-8815.  andersonNDrentals.com  SITE FOR$$:  
_WANTED  Rooms in private home for rent dur­ www. victorytickets.com  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
1 bdrm condo near NO.  Lakeside,MI cottage.  ing NO football weekends or other  not go it alone. If you or someone  
Local family needs part-time care- All appliances.$69,000.  Perfect for NO game weekends.  ND-SMC events.  BUYING & SELLING NO FOOT- you love needs confidential support  
giver for five-month-old boy.  Call Kim Kollar 574-280-8160.  7732182203  Call 243-0658.  BALL TIX.  or assistance, please call Sr. M.L.  
Flex weekday schedule available.  CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911.  Gude, esc, at 1-7819. For more  
......  Must love children & have experi­ence caring for infants. References  Single/married faculty/staff. Own a lovely home near NO for  HOMES FOR RENT.  HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6 Bedmoms includes all utilities, local  Need 4 tix to any football game.  information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  
req. Transportation necessary.  less than you pay for rent.  KRAMER PROPERTIES HAS  phone, washer/dryer, security sys- Call Jack 574-674-6593.  
Call (574)271-0747.  HOMES AVAILABLE RANGING  tem.  ADOPTION: At home Catholic  
Believe it!  FROM 3 BDRMS UPTO 10  $400/student.  WANTED: 4 GAs for USC game.  schooled mom and lawyer dad with  
ALL STUDENTS Part Time Work  Call Dale (574) 243-9547 or 210­ BDRMS.  Office 234-9334, Cell 315-2509  Call203-261-8717 Jim.  4 yr old big brother long to share  
$12.25 base/appt.  0481.  ndstudentrentals.com  their happy home and family with a  
Flexible schedules around classes,  CLOSE TO NO.  WANTED:ND-USC football tix. TOP  baby. Financial security/bright  
Gain exp. in customer sales & serv- Coldwell Banker.  FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR.  HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6  $$$PAID.  future in S.CA beach community.  
ice, Conditions apply, all ages 17 &  OPEN HOUSE Sunday 2-4, 19633  CALL KRAMER FOR SHOWINGS ­ Bedrooms includes all utilities,local  CALL 574-232-2378 A.M.  Expenses paid as permitted.  
older, Call Today 574-273-3835.  Glendale.  OFFICE 234-2436; CELL 315­ phone, washer/dryer, security sys­ 574-288-2726 P.M.  Legal/confidential.  
Alpha Graphics is seeking full & p/t  East off 933. Brick ranch & efficien­ 5032.  tem.  Please call Adrienne and Steve toll  
employee for customer service, dig­ cy, 3bdrm, 3bath total.  $400/student.  BUY/SELL/TRADE OR SWAP NO  free anytime: 1-888-476-2220.  
ital archiving & bindery work.  1/2 acre on creek.  Free room/board,male,chores/tasks  Office 234-9334, Cell315-2509  FOOTBALL TIX.  
Apply at 201 N. Main, SB.  2.5 miles to NO.  aixcertified@ hotmail.com  ndstudentrentals.com  289-8048.  I love Doyle and Michelle.  

AROUND THE NATION 
page 17 CoMPILED FROI'v\ THE 0HSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Friday, September 30, 200'5 
Major League Baseball American League East 
tPa m n~nwd pore. last 10  GB  
New York 94·65 .591 8-2  
Boston 93-66 .585 5-5  1  
Toronto 78-81 .491 5-5  16  
Baltimore 71·88 .447 1·9  23  
Tampa Bay 67·92 .421 6-4  27  
American League Central  
tPam rt~1:ord perc~ . last 1 0  GB  
x·Chicago 96·63 .604 5·5  
Cleveland 93-66 .585 6·4  3  
Minnesota 80·79 .503 4·6  16  
Detroit 71-88 .447 4·6  25  
Kansas City 55-104 .346 5·5  41  
American League West  
tna m rtH'OI'Cl pnre. last 10  GB  
x-Los Angeles 92·67 .579 8·2  
Oakland 86·73 .541 5·5  6  
Texas 79·80 .497 6·4  13  
Seattle 68·91 .428 3·7  24  
National League East  
tnam rerord p111'1:. last 10  GB  
x-AIIanta 90-69 .566 5·5  
Philadelphia 85-74 .535 5·5  5  
New York 81-78 .509 8·2  9  
Florida 81-78 .509 4·6  9  
Washington 80-79 .503 2·8  10  
National League Central  
loam rnrord pm·e . last 10  GB  
x-St. Louis 97·62 .610 3·7  
Houston 87-72 .547 7·3  11.5  
Milwaukee 80·79 .503 6·4  18.5  
Chicago 78·81 .491 4·6  20  
Cincinnati 73-86 .459 4-6  24.5  
Pittsburgh 65-94 .409 4·6  33.5  
National League West  
ltliUII rnronJ !.HH't: . last 10  GB  
x·San Diego 80-79 .503 5·5  
San Francisco 74·84 .468 8·2  5.5  
Arizona 74-85 .465 6·4  6  
Los Angeles 70·88 .443 3·7  9.5  
Colorado 66·93 .415 5·5  14  

Men's Water Polo Top 20 
tuam last week points 
1 Cal Poly State 1 97 2 Michigan State 3 97 3 Arizona 2 85 4 Grand Valley State 5 83 5 Yale 4 75 6 Michigan 6 67 7 usc 8 66 8 Fresno State 7 61 9 Florida International 9 51 10 Pennsylvania 12 49 11 Miami 10 40 12 California L.A. 13 38 13 Williams College 11 32 14 Florida State 15 32 15 NOTRE DAME 14 26 16 Purdue 19 17 17 Texas 20 16 18 Utah NR 16 19 North Carolina 16 14 19 Oregon 18 14 20 Middlebury College 17 10 
around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Pittsburgh at Rutgers 6:30p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 

New York Yankees at Boston Red Sox 7 p.m., ESPN Chicago White Sox at Cleveland Indians 6 p.m., Comcast 
NFL 


Associated Press 

MEXICO CITY-A photo of Azteca Stadium has hung in Tony Parrish's locker for months. The San Francisco 41Jers' world-traveling safety has hnnn looking forward to this weekend. whnn he'll get the chance for a little adventurn along with a lit­tin football. 
Thn 41Jnrs and the Arizona Cardinals will mnet Sunday in Mexico City in tlw first rogular­snason game outside the United States. Like nwst of the players on both dubs, Parrish is worried about his team's record, wary of the long road trip to a high-altitude eity _ but excited about making his­tory. 
"I always look forward to doing th'ings that pro­mote the game," said Parrish, who traveled to Mexico in tho offseason. "This will dnlinitely bo an evont that we'II look back on, and see it as a turning point in the international game." 
"There is an excitement to bo the first to do any­thing," Cardinals defensive ond Bertrand Berry said. "Whenever you are the lirst, you want to put your best foot forward." 
While the occasion is 
historic for the lnaguo's vast Mexican fan base and for the struggln to promote Anwriean football interna­tionally, the matr:hup isn't exactly a grabber. San Francisco, tho NJ•'J.'s worst loam last year, is 1-2. The Cardinals (0-3) will play without two-time MVP quarterb<u~k Kurt Warner, who has a strained groin. 
But that doesn't snntn to be a problem to the esti­matl~d R5,000 fans who will fill the historic soccer stadium for an evening game. Nearly one in l'ive Mexicans identilied tlwm­s~dves as NFL fans in a recent survey, and the evont has drawn extensive 
IN BRIEF 
NCAA promises d_9nation to 
Hurricane Relief Effort 
INDIANAPOLIS -The NCAA is donating $1.5 million to hurricane relief and will collect additional money during its national champi­onships this year in a new partner­ship with Habitat for Humanity. 
Under the Home Team program announced Thursday, officials from NCAA Division II have made a $1 million donation, while the NCAA national office is donating an addi­tional $500,000. The NCAA has also agreed to promote Habitat for Humanity's hurricane rebuilding efforts at its national champi­onships. 
College sports' largest governing body also hopes athletes, coaches, athletics administrators and NCAA employees will volunteer to assist in rebuilding efforts. 
The NCAA plans to sponsor houses in Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas, where Hurricanes Katrina and Hita caused the most severe damage. The NCAA also will sponsor home-building projects for victims who have relocated to other cities. 
Sorenstam to play at New Trump Golf Course 
Rancho Palos Verdes, CALIF. ­With gorgeous views of the Pacific Ocean from every hole and a passel of youngsters chasing her, Annika Sorenstam might find herself slightly distracted in the Office Depot Championship. 
If she gets tired of gazing at the ocean, there are no Jess than four waterfalls, including two rising to 25 feet, on the new Trump National course in a reflection of audaeious owner Donald Trump. 
"This is quite a place," Sorenstam said Thursday after playing her first practice round on the 6,017-yard, par-71 course that has yet to open to the public. "The views are absolutely spectacular. You got to try and stay 

focused 
national attention. 
"We havP such grnal 
intnrnst. Wt~ havn a grt~at 
fan base in Mexico," said 
Boger c;oodell, thn NI·'L's 
ehinf operating ollienr. "It's 
bonn growing dramatically 
over the last snveral yn1u·s. 
and wn·n~ n~sponding t.o 
that intPrnst. It's going to 
be a gn•at opportunity to 
understand morn about 
playing a ganw interna­
tionally." 
In truth. t.lu• ganw won't 
fnnl much diffnrPnt frorn 
an J•:ast Coast road trip f(H· 
both dubs. The players 
will keep a similar sdwd­
ul ~~ off tlw l'i n I d . apart 
from a handful of nv1~n ts 
Saturday. 
on your gamn and not look 

too mueh at the views." 
New minor league ready
for play in 2006 
St. Paul, MINN. -The St. Paul Saints and the Sioux Falls Canaries, charter members of the independent Northern League when it was found­ed 13 years ago, are leaving along with anothHr member to start a new league. 
The teams would become partners starting in 2006 along with the live­year-old Lincoln (Neb.) Saltdogs and several elubs from the Texas-based Central Baseball League. ­
The CBL, an eight-team independ­ent circuit, has franchises in Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Florida. 
The new league has yot to be named. It will be very similar to the Northern League, playing a 96-game 
-
schedule and operating independent of Major League Basnball, Saints eo­owner Mik1~ Vneck said in announc­ing the split Tuesday. 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, September 30, 2005 
MLB-NATIONAL LEAGUE 


Houston drops crucial game to Cubs at home 
Wild card race is far 
from definite with three games to play 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -Charles Gipson was cut down at home plate for the final out following Luke . Scott's double into the right­center gap, and the Chicago Cubs beat Houston 3-2 Thursday night to cut .the Astros' lead over Philadelphia in the NL wild-card race to two games. 
Derrek Lee broke a sixth­inning tie with his 46_th homer, and the Cubs led by one run entering the ninth. 
Ryan Dempster walked Orlando Palmeiro with one out, Gipson pinch ran and pinch-hit­ter Mike Lamb struck out. Scott pinch hit and doubled, with center fielder Corey .Patterson cutting the ball off. Patterson threw to second baseman Jose Macias, who made a perfect relay to catcher Henry Blanco, well ahead of Gipson. 
Blanco blocked the plate and the speedy Gipson tried to knock him over, but the catcher applied the tag and held on. 
Houston, which won 11 of its previous 14 games, missed a chance to clinch no worse than a tie for the wild card. The Astros (87 -72) still have a com­manding position over the Phillies (85-74) with three games to go. 
-
Philadelphia, which was off Thursday, begins a series Friday night at Washington. 
Houston finishes the regular season against the Cubs, with Andy Pettitte (17 -9) trying to win his eighth straight decision on Friday night. Roger Clemens (12-8) and Roy Oswalt (19-12) are the scheduled starters over the weekend. 
Glendon Rusch (9-8) won his fourth straight decision over five September starts for the Cubs, who must sweep the four­game series to avoid a losing record. Dempster got his 32nd save in 34 chances. 
Wandy Rodriguez (1 0-10) gave up three runs and five hits over seven innings. He is 1-4 in September, his only losing month this season. 
Lance Berkman led off the second with his 23rd homer to give the Astros a 1-0 lead. 
Matt Murton's homer in the fourth tied the game, and Lee put the Cubs ahead 2-1 in the sixth with a 401-foot drive off the facade behind the seats in left field. 
Jeromy Burnitz was hit by a Rodriguez pitch leading off the seventh, then went to third base after shortstop Adam Everett's throwing error on a grounder by Michael Barrett. Burnitz came home on a wild pitch, but Barrett was thrown out when the Cubs tried a squeeze play -Rusch was unable to get his bat on a pitch that bounced in front of the plate and was scooped up by catcher Raul Chavez. 
-
Jason Lane led off the Astros' seventh with a long flyball to left, but Murton made a leaping catch against the hand-operat­ed scoreboard. That was the 
-12th straight batter retired by 
Rusch. 
Chris Burke and Adam Everett then had consecutive singles before pinch-hitter Jeff Bagwell hit a sacrifice fly. Rusch got out of the inning by striking out pinch-hitter Jose Vizcaino, the last batter he faced. 
Milwaukee 2, Cincinnati 0 
The Milwaukee Brewers gave their fans their money's worth even though they got into the ballpark for free. 
Gary Glover allowed two hits over seven innings and struck out a career-high 10 in leading the Brewers to a win over the Cincinnati Reds on a "free admission" Thursday at Miller Park. 
By outpitching Eric Milton and combining with three relievers on a three-hitter, Glover put the Brewers (80-79) one win from their first non-los­ing season since 1992. Milwaukee finishes with a three-game series at Pittsburgh, where the Pirates are wrapping up their 13th straight losing season, the longest current drought in the major leagues. 
"I know for each man in here, they feel the same way I do. I don't want to be called a loser again," Milwaukee manager Ned Yost said. "It's important to us and it's important to our organization." 
The Brewers finished their final homestand 7-3 to assure their final weekend would be meaningful, at least in their eyes. 
"I think it would have been great if we could have won one more game somewhere along the way so that we had that 81st one here," Glover said. "I think that would have been big for the fans to see, to get it at home." 
The Brewers aren't thinking about taking just one game at PNC Park "because .500 is even. It's not necessarily a win­ning season," Glover said. "Everybody wants a winning season." 
So, they're shooting for at least two out of three, if not a sweep. 
Glover (5-4) surrendered just two singles, in the third and sixth inning, and didn't allow either runner past first base. He surpassed his previous career high of eight strikeouts, accom­plished Saturday against St. Louis. 
Jose Capellan got two outs in the eighth but walked a batter and surrendered a single to Ryan Freel. Julio Santana struck out Felipe Lopez looking on a full-count cut fastball, and Derrick Turnbow pitched a per­fect ninth for his 38th save in 42 chances. 
Milton (8-15) allowed two runs and five hits in seven innings, and his seven strike­outs gave him 999 for his career. 
"It was a great game pitched by everybody," Yost said. "You've got to give credit to Milton, too. He really pitched a whale of a ballgame and he's a good pitcher that struggled today. But the good pitcher in him really came out today." 
Bill Hall led off the fifth with his first of two doubles, took third on Rickie Weeks' ground ball to second base and then tried to score on a squeeze bunt. But Chad Moeller was struck in his right hand by Milton's fastball, forcing Moeller from the game with a bruised index finger and sending Hall back to third base. 
Jeff Cirillo pinch hit for Moeller with a 1-1 count and sliced a single under the glove of Lopez, who was playing in at shortstop. Brady Clark then tripled home Cirillo, and Damian Miller replaced Moeller in the field in the top of the sixth. 

Milton was glad to finish on a strong note but also eager to put his 2005 season behind him. 
"I've been looking forward to next year for a while," he said. "It's one of those things: throw­ing the ball well and the season ending. It's better than ending on a bad outing." 
Before the game, the Reds extended manager Jerry Narron's contract through next season with a mutual option for 2007. Narron began the season as the Reds bench coach and was appointed interim manager when Dave Miley was fired June 21 after the team's 27-43 start. 

New York Mets 11, Colorado 0 
At age 39 and in his 18th full season in the major leagues, Tom Glavine proved there's always something to be learned in baseball. 
Glavine reinvented himself midway through the year, adding a cutter and a curveball to his repertoire and he showed them off with a two-hitter, pitching the New York Mets to a romp over the Colorado Rockies. 
The Mets made it easy for Glavine with a 15-hit attack that included four home runs. David Wright hit two and reached 100 RBis for the sea­son, while Mike Piazza started what almost certainly is his final series as a Met with the 397th of his career. 
But this was a night that 

belonged to Glavine. Mixing speeds and never topping 86 mph with his fastball, he posted the 275th victory and 24th shutout of his career. 
"He was outstanding," said Willie Randolph, whose team won its 81st game, clinching a .500 finish in his first year as manager. "He's a pro. It was good to see him look like the Tom Glavine we all know and love. It goes to show what kind of pitcher he is. He did a great job." 

Nobody was happier about it than Glavine (13-13). · 
"It's satisfying, obviously, in the short term," he said. "I had a much better season than the first six weeks indicated. I had a game plan that should enable me to pitch beyond next year. The changes excite me. I'm more excited about where I am as a pitcher now." 
It showed as he struck out 11 and walked two. The last time he had 11 strikeouts in a game was May 13, 1994. 


DECEMBER 31,2005 
St. Thomas prepares professionals with practical skills and a theoretical legal education based on integrating personal values with the deepest of ethical principles. 
With our nationally recognized mentor externship program, highly ranked legal writing program, commitment to community service, and our distinguished faculty, isn't it time to consider the University of St. Thon::tas tor your law degree? 
c::;::;;;;:).. 

~J UNIVERSITY of Sr.THOMAS 
School of Law MSL 124, I 000 LaSalle Ave. Minneapolis, MN 5 5403 Phone: (651) 962-4895; (800) 328-6819, Ext. 2-4895 lawschool@stthomas.edu www.stthomas.edu/law 
Friday, September 30, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
Clash 
continued from page 28 

teams used to dominating, mental toughness could be vital. 
"I think lnwntal toughness] is going to play a big role," Suarez said. "And also not get­ting flust•~n~d -whoever just sticks out is going to come out tlw winner." 
In addition to having playoff implications, the game is also a rmnatch of last year's champi­onship game play«~d in Notre Dame Stadium. when Walsh upset tlw favored Chaos 20-7. 
"This game is huge because it's the Stadium (;;une from last year so W«' want to show them that we can win," Suarez said. 
With all tlw hyp•~ surrounding t.lw ganw, Botta is confident 

Chapel 
continued from page 28 

and this WI'Pk's practices. Last Sl' ason. t.lw Knights beat the Crillins in a 7-(, slugfest. It was physical. so this WPPk's practices -for both t«'ams -lutve been just that. 
"W«• had lllLtch morP intense practicPs Ithis week I." Lyzinski said. "I thought, last week, one of our probiPms was the intensity wasn't there !against Dillon!. So this week, we definitely focused on team int«msity and getting back to tlw f'undanwntals." 
The CrifTins weren't pleased with thnir week one offensive performanen, so thny got back to the basics as well. 
"We worked on our offense to try to bring that together a lot morn," McNicholas said. "The first game, we only got one touchdown, so we put in a few new plays. 
"We tried to learn from our experiences the first game, and hnr Wild Women will k«~ep the game in perspeetive and come out on top. 
"JT/w gamnl won't makn or brnak the s«mson. but it'll be great to get a big win on Sunday," slw said. 
Still, Botta and the Wild Women will need to watch out for a team hungry for revenge. 
"Yes we are bitter, definitely, and we're looking for pay­back," Suarez said. 
Howard vs. Badin 

lloward and Badin arc meet­ing up Sunday at 1 p.m. on West Quad in a women's Blue league match-up of longtime rivals. 
These South Quad teams havn struggled this season, meaning this game is a toss-up. 
Badin won their first game against Lyons but has not scornd a touchdown since in 
lwe •~ani hopefully put u few morn points on the board." Knnnan is led by Lyzinski and senior quartnrbw~k Hob Coly. 
For thn up-and-coming Crif'lins, M•~Nieholas dirnds the defense along with li~llow senior l•:ddi«! Mndrick, while freshman quarterback Brian Salvi guides tlw o!Tense. Against Dillon, McNidwlas had three intercep­tions. Mndrick, who plays defen­sive tackle, has bnen a constant force for the staunch Griffin defense. 
lie's a senior, and he's been the anchor of our 1>-line for three years," McNicholas said. "He's just a hugo force up the middle." 
Both squads acknowledge they'll have to play nearly flaw­less football to win this week­end's crudal game. 
"Wn're definitely not taking them lightly," Lyzinski said. "They have a very good team. Last year they played us very, very hard. We're looking at them as a very good team. We're going to have to be at the top of our game to win this one." 
consecutive losses to Walsh and Cavanaugh. 
The Bulll'rogs can still salvage a winning season if they turn things around and bnat Howard and then defeat Lewis on Tuesday. 
lloward is still looking for its first win and has yet to score this season, losing in blowouts against Lyons and Cavanaugh and a heartbreaker against Lewis in which the game was tied until the limtl three min­utes. 
Both teams are still working on their interception-prone offenses and strengthening their defenses. 
Neither teams' captains could be reached for comment Thursday. 
Contact Jack Thornton at jthornt4@nd.edu and Ben Vincent at bvincent@nd.edu 

Dillon vs. Alumni 
A neighborhood rivalry resumns Sunday as Dillon and Alumni square o!T at :~ p.m. at Hiehle Field in men's Gold league action. 
Dillon nnters ganw with a record of 1-1 and is looking to put all the pieens together against Alumni. 
While Dillon captain Kenny Cushing has been happy with the team so far and is looking to build on its past success, he also thinks it can take the play to another level. 
"Our team has been great Monday through Saturday, but we have not been putting it together on Sunday," Cushing said. 
Cushing also said he thought the key for this game and the overall strength of Dillon is strong communication and a solid rushing game. 
Both factors will lead to the efficient play the Big Red prides itself on. 
Alumni enters the game hun­gry after a tie and loss in its first two games of the season. 
Captain Hyan M•~Get.tigan and senior Andrew Broslin both undnrstand the importance of' this game as a dassk rivalry. 
McGettigan also thought rush­·ing was going to be a key liutor. 
"Dillon has a good running game, but we think that W«~ match up against tlwm wnll." he said. 
On offense, Alumni plans to establish the run and usn it to set up the passing game. The Dawgs believe success on the .ground will lead to points on the score­board. 
Morrissey vs. Keough 
There is a high ehanee of a defensive struggle breaking out Sunday as Morrissey faces off with Keough at 2 p.m. at Hichlc Field. Both· teams are defensive­minded, and neither has eclipsed ten points in a game thus far. 
Morrissey is looking to capital­ize on the momentum it estab­lished by defeating O'Neill 6-2 last week in a game in which it •~ornplntPiy shut down tlw Angry Mob's oll'm1sn. 
"Our defens•~ as a unit stnppPd up last wnPk and madP big plays for us," captain and starting run­ning back Nirk Kinin said. 
Morrissey doPs not dPJWnd at all on flashinnss or a high-flying passing ganw. lnstPad it rPiins on a ball-control att.ar.k aidml by a Klein-lnd rushing attack. · 
Tlw rushing game was nff'pc­tive against O'Nnill. Tlw Manor's ol'l'nnse was ahln to scorn a touchdown wlwn tlwir dnfnnsP fim~nd a turnover denp in Angry Mob territory. Morrissey bnli«wns it can shut down Knough if thn offense succeeds in not heating itself'. 

Keough, after being manhan­dled 14-0 by delimding champion Keenan in its opener, let a special teams blunder get betweon them • and a vietory last week in a 9-9 tie with Alumni. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu, James Brady at jbradyl@nd.edu and James Fegan at jfegan@nd.edu 

MEN'S INTERHALL -BLUE LEAGUE 

Cricket Stick prized by two halls 
By DAN MURPHY, GREG 
ARBOGAST and 
COLIN REIMER 
Sporrs Writers 

For the past year the coveted Cricket Stick has resided in Carroll llall. But Sunday at 2 p.m. "tlw stil:k" makes it way back to Hinhln Field to bn daimnd by the winrwr of the Fisher-Carroll game. 
Tho trophy, a n~pli«:a of Knute Hoekrw's old walking stiek, is awardnd annually to tho winning team, whieh kneps it until the rwxt meeting. 
I .ast ynar Carroll won the game · for tlw first time in almost a d1~ead11 and thny arn recharged to delimd thoir titln. llowever, Fisher will surely put up a light. 
Fisher looks to continue their winning ways al'tnr a soason­opnning shutout ovnr Knott. 
Tho Fisherman playnd a smash­mouth style gamn with a strong defimse and tough running. 
Thn rnturn of starting running back Tom Sullivan should help tlw oll'ensn improve after scoring only orw touchdown last week. 
Tho t1~arn 's defpnse wm; able to shut down Knott's passing game and should match up well against Carroll. 
The Vermin come into the 

matchup after a 6-0 win over Siegfrind last week. 
Sorln vs. Siegfried 

Sorin and Siegfried come into their Men's Intcrhall blue league game Sunday at 3 p.m. with a sense of urgency as playoff impli­cations are on the line for both squads. 
"While every game is impor­tant, this game obviously has heightened meaning," Sorin cap­tain Pete Laviorini said. 
"But we're l~tirly eonlident that we ean win this week and carry that momentum through the rest of the snason." 
Both teams eome into Sunday's game with 1-1 records meaning the loser of the contest will likely be out of the playoU' picture. 
Sorin, coming into the game off a 12-0 loss to Zahm, has made sevnral adjustments to an ofl'Emse that struggled to put points on the board in their last. game. 
Zahm vs. St Ed's 

Zahm looks to keep iL<> record a clean 3-0 Sunday at 1 p.m. at Hiehle Field as the Bats face off against the winless St. Ed's Stedsmen. 
Hiding a two-game winning streak, Zahm enters the game as a favorite having knocked off Sorin last week, 12-0. 
Bat<; captain Pat Gourley insist­ed that while last week's win was big, his team is still focused on the task at hand. 
'This league is unpredictable," Gourley said. "Anybody can beat anybody on a given day." 
"We'll be ready." 
Gourley named tight end Seth Freiesleben and wide receiver Kris Patterson as impact players. 
Meanwhile, the Stcdsmen will take the field lilf the first time in two weeks, as they arn coming ·off ofa Week 2 bye. 
The last time St. Ed's took the field, it fnll 6-0 to Sorin. 
Team captain Dan Ward said the team has taken full advantage of the extra wnek. "We took advantage of our time oil' to take a good look at Zahm and get ready for their schemes," Ward said. "They didn't have that opportunity, and I feel that strate­gically, we will be better pre­pared." 
Ward indicated that his team is mentally ready for the challenge offacing the undefeated Bat<>. 
"Our guys are really pumped up," he said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu, Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu and Colin Reimer at creimer 1 @nd.edu 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL-GOLD LEAGUE 


Phoxes preparing 
for Finest attack 
By TIM KAISER, ERIC 
HIMMELSBACH and 
TOM DORWART 
Spons Writers 

Pangborn has momentum coming into Sunday's 5 p.m. game at Hiehlc Field against Parley af'tcr an 1S-0 victory over Pasquerilla West Thursday night. 
Sophomore defensive line­man Stephanie Lewis felt the improvement from week one was key to the Phoxcs' suc­cess in their next game. 
"The defense stepped up and executed better against PW, and the running game was good," she said. 
Lewis also feels quarterback Katie Mooney has becoming more comfortable, and the Pangborn freshmen are tak­ing to the team's style of play more and more naeh game. 
Pasquerllla East vs. Pasquerilla West 

Sunday's upcoming interhall game between Pasqucrilla. East and Pasquerilla. West marks the next chapter in a 
friendly, but always competi­tive, rivalry. The two teams will clash Sunday at 5 pm at Riehle Field, both prepared for what's expected to be an intense and emotional eon-• test. 
The Purple W11asnls are corning off of a tough loss against the Phoxes of Pangborn while tlw Pyros recently lost 16-12 to Walsh. 
McGlinn vs. Welsh Family 
Two unbeall~n West Quad tnams will mont Sunday at 4 
p.m. at Hiehle Fields when the Welsh Family Whirlwinds lake on the neighboring Mdilinn Shamrocks. 
Note: 

+Pasquerilla East downed ­Breen-Phillips Thursday night, 1 S-0, in a makeup last Thursday's rainout at Stepan fiields. 
-
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu, Eric Himmelsbach at ehimmels@nd.edu and Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 


r-
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 30, 2005 


NFL 
Bucs preparing to face Willia111s, Harrington 
Wiliams had wanted to play for his hometown 
Associated Press 
Juran Bolden remembnrs the day he met Detroit r.ookie receiver Mike Williams for the lirst time. 
Like Williams, the Tampa Bay Buccaneers nickel back grew up in Tampa. So, it's only natural that he's followed the hometown product's transition from high school phenom to college star to young pro. 
But one thing watching high­lights of Williams on television failed to prepare Bolden for was 
-the sheer physical presence of the Lions' first-round draft pick, who's 6-foot-5 and nearly 235 pounds. "I heard so much about him, but never had a 
chance to actually 'Mike Williams'
"Mike [Williams] is 
meet him," Bolden debut has not
just trying to get
recalled. "I saw been nearly as him and they better every week, spectacular, (said), 'That's although he did
earn himselfmore 
Mike right there.' score his first NFL
playing time and
I said: 'No it's not. touchdown on the That's a defensive be a contributor. , only reception lineman.' He's a he's had in two big guy." games.
Steve Marluccl 
Bolden expects He sat out last
Lions coach 
season at USC

to see plenty more of Williams on Sunday, when the Lions (1-1) face the Bucs (3-0) in a game Williams has been looking for­ward to since April, when Detroit drafted him No. 10 over­all. 
While playing in his home­town for the first time as a pro figures to be exciting for the 21­year-old receiver, he will not be the most talked-about rookie named Williams in the game. 
The Bucs took Carnell "Cadillac" Williams with the fifth pick in the draft, and he's off to the best start by a first­year running back in league his­tory with a league-leading 434 yards through three games. 
Mike Williams had hoped his hometown team would draft him, but said he's happy in Detroit. 
"That's the business. I think 
A concert of Indian Classical Music-Carnatic 
featurino 
J>rof. T. N. K1ishnan--Violin 
accompanied by 
Hnhan 1\:rishnamurthy--Mridongam 
Sunday, the 2•d of October, 2005 
-
7:30p.m. 
)luaitorium, Jfes6urofi Centerfor Internationa{ Stutfies 
Vnir;ersity of !J'{otre I])ame 
Sponsored by: 
SouH1 Asiun Studies Program 
Office of International Student Services and Activities -Tlu.• Asian lndinn Ch1ssicul Music Sod~:ty of 1\'fichinna 
Tickets available at gate. General Admission: $10 ND/SMC Faculty: $5 Students: Free Contact: Amitava Dutt (631-75941 or Umesh Garg (272-2957) 
the Bucs were up front with me. They had a decision to make and they made it," the rookie said. 
"But look at the guy they picked. He might be a shoo-in for ofl'ensive rookie of the year. Cadillac is a good guy.... If they were going to pick somebody besides me, they picked a stand­up guy, and a guy that obviously made their team better." 
Tampa Bay is off to its best start since 2000, with Cadillac becoming the first player to begin his career with three con­
. secutive 100-yard rushing per­formances. The shoes and gloves he wore last week against Green Bay are already on display at the Pro Football Hall of Fame. 
after a court deci­sion allowing him to apply for early entry to the 2004 draft was reversed and the NCAA denied his petition to become re-eligible to play in college. 
Lions coach Steve Mariucci said Williams is still getting into football shape after being out for so long. He played eight snaps in Detroit's season-open­ing win against Green Bay and about 35 snaps in a loss to Chicago. 
"Mike is just trying to get bet­ter every week, earn himself more playing time and be a con­tributor," Mariucci said. 
Detroit has selected receivers in the first round each of the past three drafts. Williams feels good about the progress he's made toward getting on the field more with starters Roy Williams and Charles Rogers. 
MLB -AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Yanks-Sox also MVP race 
A-Rod and Ortiz will both makefinal case 
Associated Press 
It's not just the AL East title up for grabs when the New York Yankees go to Boston for three crucial games this week­end at Fenway Park. The league's Most Valuable Player award might go to the star whose team wins the division. 
Red Sox designated hitter David Ortiz and Yankees third baseman Alex Rodriguez both have the eye-popping numbers that will put them near the top of most MVP ballots. But when it comes time for baseball writ­ers to decide who is the most valuable, they often pick players who helped their teams reach the postseason. 
"That's how you win an MVP -getting into the playoffs and starring for the Chicago Cubs in winning the World Series," Ortiz 1987, was the only player to said this week. "All I want to do win an MVP with a last-place is get into the playoffs one way team until Rodriguez won one or another." with the Texas Rangers two 
With the AL East race whit­years ago. tled down to a three-game, Of course, the ballot doesn't head-to-head series in Boston, require a player to play the the Yankees (94-65) held aone­field, either. game lead over the Red Sox in But no one has ever won the the division. Boston was tied award playing designated hitter with the Cleveland Indians in full-time; Don Baylor won it the AL wild-card race at 93-66. · with the California Angels in 
"I think the focus is on the 1979 playing 65 games at DH team. I think a nice side note and 97 more in the field. On the behind that is, obviously, the other hand, a number of slug­MVP race," Rodriguez said. "No gers who were considered question, front and center right defensive liabilities have won now is the Yankees vs. Boston." the AL award, including two­
The MVP ballot does not time winners Frank Thomas require a player to reach the and Juan Gonzalez. playoffs, but voters frequently Rodriguez's defense is expect­say that a guy can't be that ed to help him; he has just 11 valuable if his team doesn't at errors and could win a third least contend. Andre Dawson, Gold Glove -his first at third 
0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
i. 

base. Ortiz played just 10 games at first base this season. 
But the strength of Rodriguez's MVP case is still his offense: He is batting .320 with 129 RBis and 20 stolen bases, and he leads the league with 4 7 homers and 121 runs. Ortiz has played just 10 games at first base. 
"Both are great players, both have had great years," Yankees pitcher Mike Mussina said. "I think I give our guy the nod simply because he plays defense every day and Ortiz doesn't." 
But Ortiz is leading the majors with 146 RBis, he's batting .298 and he matched A-Rod with his 47th homer on Thursday night -a solo shot to tie the game in the eighth inning. Then, the man Boston calls "Big Papi" hit a game-ending single in the ninth. 


Friday, September 30, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS NCAA FOOTBALL 
CSU tops Air Force, 41-23 
Bell runs for 197 yards in decisive Rams win 
Associated Press 
In the span of two weeks, Kylo Bell, bonchwarmer has bnr.ome Kyle Bell, burgeoning star for Colorado State. 
1\ sophomoro who earned his job only when opening-day startor Nnamdi Ohaeri got hurt, Bell eame eloso to the 200-yard mark for the second straight game Thursday night, running for 197 yards and threo seores in a 41-23 victory over Air Force. 
"You don't think about that," Bnll said of opnning the season on the bench. "You come to play no matter where you are on tho dnpth chart. I got the call and made the most of it." 
This added to a 183-yard game last week against Nevada and Bell, the state of Colorado's career high school rushing leader, became the first player for Colorado State (2-2, 1-0 Mountain West) to r11cord back-to-back 100-yard games since 2002. 
"Bell was better today than he was last week," Rams coach Sonny Lubick said. "lie has stamina. He have been able to play another quartnr if there was one to play." 
This one was settled early, though, and Bell was a stand­out on a night full of big per­formances for the Rams, who won their second straight and handed the Falcons (2-3, 1-2) their third straight loss. 
David Anderson stayed on pace to become the most pro­ductive receiver in school his­tory. catching seven passes for 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, October 4th 
(and everyfirst Tuesday of the month) 

7:30-9:30p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The student members of the 
Standing Commntee on Gay 
and Lesbian Student Needs 
invite gay, lesbian, and 
bisexual members of the 
Notre Dame family, their 
friends, and supporters to 
an informal coffee at the 
Co-Mo. 
105 yards and two scores. This marked his 12th career 100-yard game and Anderson stayed well on pace to reach former Rams great Greg Primus for the most receptions and yards in school history. 
Little-used receiver Luke Roberts had five catches for 123 yards and an acrobatic touchdown, caught over the arms of an outstretched defender for a 13-9 lead late in the second. 
Throwing the passes was Justin Bolland, who went 17­for-26 for 318 yards and three scores. The Rams finished with 551 yards in offense. 
"Add all that up there and you've got a good, ol' fanny kicking," Air Force coach Fisher DeBerry said. "That's what it was." 
Air Force was coming off 

one-and three-point losses to Wyoming and Utah and was hoping to tighten up the small details and pull off a win in this rivalry between teams separated by 110 miles on 1­25. 
The difference in this one was about more than the small stuff, though. 
The Falcons were over­whelmed by Colorado State's offensive line, and as the game wore on, their exhaustion showed -never more than when Bell ran untouched on a misdirection play for a nine­yard score and a 41-23 lead with 6:10 left. 
Earlier, their tackling wasn't great, as Bell could attest. His 1-yard touchdown run in the first quarter came on a second or third effort after Air Force failed to bring him down. 
I 
' 

Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured • 
. 

*Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
THII' •T•Nt')ING CONMITT•• 0,. 0AYAND ......IAN 
•Tua••n Na•a• 
page 21 
NFL 


Miallli pulls together after disastrous 2004 
Team still imperfect, but improved, with Saban 
Associated Press 
For the Miami Dolphins, ugly lapses persist: overthrown open receivers downfield, false-start penalties on consecutive snaps, a botched short field-goal attempt and three missed tack­les by the secondary on a single play. 
But through three games, the record looks much better. Miami is 2-1 and tied with New England for the AFC East lead. 
That's something to savor after last season, the Dolphins' worst since the 1960s, when they lost the first six games and finished an unsightly 4-12. 
"It's pretty obvious to me that, when we get it right, we have a chance to be halfway decent," 

new coach Nick  "It's pretty obvious to  With the addi­ 
Saban said. "And when we don't get it right,  me that, when we get it right, we have a  tion of Frerotte and top draft pick Honnie  
things don't look  chance to be halfway  Brown  at  run­ 
too pretty there."  out  decent."  ning back, the offense has been  
The Dolphins  much improved.  
were painful to  Nick Saban  The  return  of  
watch last sea­ Dophlns coach  2002 NFL rush­ 

son, when at times they appeared unable to block, tack­le, run, throw or chew gum. Saban's solution was to turn over half the roster and demand a new level of eflicien­cy and toughness. 
One celebrated moment dur­ing training camp underscored Saban's no-nonsense approach: his scolding of defensive tackle Manuel Wright during practice made the 330-pound rookie cry. 
Players praise Saban's efforts to weed out the lack of disci­pline that helped derail last season. 
"Now the guys are approach­ing practice more seriously, and the intensity is there all the time, not just on game day," tight end Randy McMichael said. "You don't see guys coast­ing through a week of practice 


Attend the 2005 NDLawFair 
October 3, 2005 McKenna Hall 11:00-3:00 
Representatives from over 70 law schools will be available in an informal setting to answer questions and provide information to students about their law schools. 
trying to save their bodies for the game." 
That's not to say the Dolphins have eliminated mistakes. Their 34 penalties are seven morn than they committnd in the first three games last year, sorely testing Saban's temper. There have been nine false-start penalties, one more than at the same point in 2004. 
Miami was penalized 131-\ yards last week -and still beat Carolina 27-24. 
"I can't imagine what it would be like if we didn't have thosn penalties," quarterback Gus Frerotte said. "There would be no telling how we would have played, or what the score would have been, or what our yardage 
would end up 
being like." 
ing ehampion 
Ricky Williams when he completes a four-game drug suspension will mean even more firepower. 
The line was a league laugh­ingstock last season, but with a cast of holdovers -and a new line coach in the widely respected Hudson Houck ­holes are bigger and pass pro­tection is better. 
Players rave that new offen­sive coordinator Scott Linehan's play calling is more creative and less conservative than when Dave Wannstedt was head coach. 
"We're playing to win games," guard Rex Hadnot said. "We're not playing to preserve a lead. That has been the biggest key. We put it on the other team to stop us. We're not trying to be cautious." 

~-----·-----­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 30, 2005 
NFL 


Giants and Jets agree to share new stadiu111 
First dual-owned and operated venue in history 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFOHD. N.J. ­The New York Giants and Jets agreed Thursday to build a stadium in the Meadowlands that would become the first NFL venue to be owned and operated by two teams. 
The facility will be built near stato-owned Giants Stadium, which is currently home to both teams and is among the league's oldest stadiums. 
Specific details about the sta­dium plan are to be developed over the next several months, including its new name. The teams plan to put the naming rights up for bid. 
Acting Gov. Hichard J. Corley announced the deal during a press conference at the stadi­um, saying it would guarantee both teams remain in New Jersey for the next 99 years. 
Corley, appearing with the owners of both teams, said the Jets would also relocate their practice facility to New Jersey. The Jets now practice at Hofstra University on Long Island. 
The project would create "tens of thousands of new jobs," Corley said, adding he was also looking forward to revenue from income taxes from the Jets' payroll. 
Jets president Jay Cross esti­mated the cost would be more than $800 million, and Giants chief operating officer John K. Mara figured the stadium 
Both teams -as well as the 
NFL and New Jersey-would 
like a roof, but the teams have 

said the $200 million addition­
al cost is beyond them. A roof 
would allow the Super Bowl 
and college basketball Final 
Four to be played at the state­

run Meadowlands complex. 
Regarding a roof, Corley said, 

"The state will not pay one 
penny for it." 
The state agreed to help both 

teams find new practice facili­
ties, although Mara said he 
hoped the Giants would be 

able to get a new location at 
the sports complex. 
Mara said that while his fam­. ily, a co-owner of the Giants, 
was sad that the stadium 
would have a new name, it 
would be necessary to sell 
naming rights in order to 
linance the project. He had no 
immediate estimate as to how 
much the naming rights would 
bring. 
He said he hopes the facility 
could open for the 2009 sea­

son. 
Since the teams will be equal 
partners, disputes over opera­

tions would be resolved 
through mediation, and ulti­
mately, the NFL commissioner, 
Mara said. 
The agreement, which Corley 
signed during the press confer-· 
ence, apparently ends several 

years of efforts by both teams 
to get new stadiums, albeit in 
different states. 
Jets owner Woody Johnson 

had his sights on rail yards on the West Side of Manhattan. A stadium on that site also would have served as the prime venue for the 2012 Olympic Games. But a key New York panel rejected any assistance in June, dooming that dream. 
Meanwhile, the Giants and New Jersey had reached an agreement in April for a team­owned 80,000-seat stadium at the Meadowlands. 


Want to cough, run a fever, have fatigue and feel miserable for 10-21 days this winter? Then DON'T get a flu shot! But if you'd like at least an 85% chance of preventing it, then wash your hands frequently, don't share eating or drinking utensils, and get the free flu vaccine!. 
Free Flu Shots 
Joyce Center Concourse 
Enter Gates 1 or 2 
TO 

HIQH...RISK Notre Dame students, 
faculty, staff, retirees & their spouses (ND ID card required) 
(High risk is defined as those age 65 or older, those with a history of long-tenn health problems such as heart or lung disease, diabetes. anemia, or weakened immune system, pregnant, healthcare workers, or caregivers of child< 6 months of age.) 
on 
Tuesday, October 4th 9am -4pm 

---------------------------AND ------------------------­
ANY Notre Dame student, faculty, staff, retiree & their spouse (ND ID card required) 
on 

Wednesday and Thursday, October 5 and 6 
9am -4pm Offered by University Health Services and the Office of Human Resources. 
If you have questions regarding the immunization, please call631-7497. 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 





Fall tournament play starts 
Thompson twins will play in All-American tournament doubles 
By RYAN KIEFER 
Sporrs Writer 
Looking across the net and seeing a teammate doesn't usu­ally get the competitive juices tlowing. But so has gone the life of a Notre Dame women's tennis player for 
.----. the last month. 
For the first four weeks of practice, the only compe­tition the team has experienced Connelly has been playing practice sets against each other. 
It's easy to see why the team is geared up to take to the courts this weekend. The Irish will enter players in two tourna­ments, the Hoosier Classic in Bloomington, Ind., and the Riviera/ITA All-American Championships in Pacific Palisades, Calif. 
It will be the first matches of the fall season for the majority of players, and coach Jay Louderback summed up his team's mentality in simple terms. 
"They are anxious to play other people," he said. 
Three Irish seniors -Lauren Connelly, Katrina Stastny, and Kelly Nelson -competed in last weekend's Maryland Invitational. 
Connelly and Stastny, expected to play No. 2 doubles this sea­son, won the consolation title in the "A" flight of the doubles draw. 
The tandem also competed in the singles "A" t1ight going a combined 4-3. Nelson reached the fmal in the "B" flight of sin­gles. . 
The rest of the Irish squad enters the weekend with a clean slate and high expectations, none higher than that of 
• Christina and Christian Thompson. 
The twin sisters are the No. 2 ranked doubles team in the country. They will put the rank­ing on the line in California this man standout Katie Potts will enter the "B" flight. Lauren Connelly and Kelcy Tefft will battle in the "C" flight, and Kelly· Nelson will round out the singles lineup in the "D" flight. 

Louderback will enter three teams in the doubles draw. 
Teams expected to challenge the Irish include the host Hoosiers, who will fiPid a com­petitive squad featuring three talented, international fresh­men. Kansas State, Kansas and Louisiana State will also enter strong squads this weekend. 
Louderback was excited for the tournament for several rea­sons. 
"It's a very good tournament," 
he said. "It will be 
nice too with the 

weekend in the "With the twins twins gone, play­pre-qualifying ers will be playing
gone, players will 
round of the ITA higher in the line­
be playing higher 
tournament. The up than they are Thompsons were in the lineup than used to and will be runners up in the facing better play­
they are used to 
tournament last ers. Two fresh­
and will be facing
year. men IPotts and 
Louderback better players. " Tefft] will also get spoke highly of a chance to play in his talented dou­their first eollege
Jay Louderback
bles team. tournament." 
lrish coach
"They will The fall season 
enter every tour­nament feeling that they have a good chance to win it," he said. 
The rest of the team will enter the Hoosier Classic, a tourna­ment expected to provide good competition for the Irish. Eight teams will participate, entering players in five flights of singles and one flight of doubles. 
Brook Buck, ranked No. 54 nationally in singles, will lead the Irish in the "A" flight. Seniors Kiki Stastny and fresh-will allow the Irish 

to gain experience before the more intense indoor and spring seasons begin. Louderback also said it would give players who did not play much during the summer the chance to get back into competi­tion. 
The Irish will open the home portion of their fall schedule Oct. 14 against Southern California. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 
would hold at least 80,000 spectators. The teams will split the cost of building the stadi­um and will share in the rev­enues. 
Plans developed by the Giants over the past several months envision a stadium on which a retractable roof could be added, Mara said, but he noted the topic had not yet been addressed in discussions with the Jets. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TRYOUTS! 
Walk-on t'!fouts for the Womens Basketball Team wt11 be held Monda!J, Oct.Jber 3, at 4:00p.m. in the Pitt-}o!fce Center. 

Friday, September 30, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles host talented, tough Pilots 
St. Mary's continues daunting schedule 
By RYAN KIEfER 
Spor" Writn 
Thn Saint Mary's vollnyball tnam will snn somnthing thoy havpn't snt'n all st'ason whnn thPy host BPthnl Collngn Saturday at to a.m. in tho ;\ng~~la J\thlntk CPntnr -schol­arship athlntns. 
Whiln tlw Bnllns arn a Division Ill school that Is pnr­mittnd to award scholarship monny on a 1wnd-only basis, thn Pilots arn mnmbnrs of' the NAJA, an organization of' smallor col­IPgi~s that allows schools to give athlntk scholarships. 
Thus, Bnthel has been ablo to compil1~ a group of talented players, and while the NAJA competition is less than that of the NCAA, the Pilots' 15-2 record speaks to their success this snason. 
Bnlles coach Julie Schroeder­Bink acknowledged the Pilots' tahmt. 
"Thny are a scholarship team and they anl good," she said. "Thnre's always been a good rivalry between Bethel and Saint Mary's. We expect strong compnlilion Saturday." 
Saint Mary's enters the match \\<ith an H-9 n~conl ineluding 2­4 in thn MIJ\J\. They are coming off' a win ovnr Tri-State on Ttwsday, a match that went five games despitn the Belles' win­ning thn first two. 
Tlw B1dlns just eomplnted one of thn toughnst portions of their sdwduln, playing five matches 
_,NAGOYA 

TOKYO 

INFORMATION SESSIONS 5 PM Thursday, September29 231 Hayes-Healy 
or 

5 PM Monday, October3 229 Hayes-Healy 








STUDYABROAD 
/'IN 


JAPAN 

in eight days. After compiling a :~-2 record during that stretch, Schrocder-Biek gave the Bnlles 
a  much-deserved  day  off  
Wednesday.  
"We  had  a  few  nagging  

injuries that needed some rest," she said. "One day won't heal all of the injuries, but the time ofl' can only help us. It's nice to have a day to yourself." 
Saint Mary's took to the prac­tice court Thursday to tweak­their defense. Schroeder-Hick hesitated to emphasize any par­ticular aspect of her team's play during praetice for fear that another area may become weaker. She continued to drive her team to play a solid all­around game. 
Schroeder-Biek also stressed the importance of mental toughness and drive in light of thn lapses that occurred in games three and four Tuesday. 
"They know it should havn been finished in three," she said. "We just need to play the entire game from start to fin­ish." 

The Belles have hit the halfway point of their season. Their focus in the second half will be on picking apart MIAA opponents. 
The Belles have seen all but two MIAA teams already this season. 
Despite the inconsistent play Tuesday, Schroeder-Biek feels her team is focused and ready to make a second-half push. 
''I'm very happy that they still have very high goals for them­selves at this point in the sea­son," she said. 
"They know what they are capable of." 
The Belles have faced a diffi­cult schedule this year that included ranked teams Elmhurst and Wisconsin­Oshkosh in the first two match­
. ns of the ynar. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

St. Mary's respects underdog opponent 
( 

St. Mary's Mandy Thompson, middle, dribbles by an Adrian defender earlier this week. The Belles won 5-0. 
Belles flying high after huge win but won't take Thunder lightly 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
The Belles are riding high and firing on all cylinders: their opponent can barely field a com­plete squad. Most teams would walk onto the piteh with nothing but victory on their minds, but not the Belles. 
The Tri-State Thunder face oil' against the Belles at noon Saturday in an epic mismateh. The Thunder hav(~ often not been able to put the full 11 play­
. ers onto the field, while the Belles arn frnsh ofJ' of a 5-0 past­ing of Adrian. "One of the things I really stress with our women whon wn play teams of !Tri-State's! calibor is that we respoet them," Belles' coach Caryn Mackenzie said. "That way we try to play our game, as opposed to coming down to their level." The Belles do not fear losing, but they fear they will hurt themselves in the long run if they do not bring their highest caliber game. "Hopefully we ean notch a few early goals and do what we did against Adrian and_ get a fi.lw of our women off of the bnnch," Mackenzie said." 
Several Bnlles non-starters came onto tho field in tho sneond half against Adrian and contin­uod to dominatll their out­matdwd opponents. As a unit, the entire team has been a model of cohesive play in tho past filW weeks. 
"We're doing some good things right know," Macknnzin said. "I think we're starting to really enjoy being on the field witl1 each other. I like what I am seeing from us as a team at the moment." 
With Wednesday's crushing defeat of Adrian, thn Belles vaulted into third-plaeo in the MIM standings with a 4-2 eon­fimmee reeord and 5-4 ovnrall. Olivet shifted down into tlw fourth place spot previously inhabitnd by Saint Mary's. 
"It was nkn to sen us finally move," Mackenzie said. "Wn beat Olivnt head-to-lwad and thny eontinund to bn above us in thn standings. So that mntimwd to bn a thorn in our sides." 
But despite the annoyance to being held inferior to a team that the Belles had defeatnd, them is morn to their team than just numbers. 
"I think we know wlwn WI~ arn playing well and when things are working for us," Ma1:kenzie said. "We're a team that enjoys that momnnt and don't neces­sarily look for every little ... ehangn on the MIM wnbpage." 
Contact Kyle Cassily at 
kcassily@nd.edu 




NOMA 
-dine, drink. + be stylish Seeking energetic Restaurant Manager Bar Manager Sommelier Bartender Sous Chef Line Cook Dishwasher Food Runner Server and Cocktail Server Bus and Host To be on the ground floor of New Upbeat Fusion Restaurant/Bar In Downtown South Bend. Competitive Benefit Package Available (2 Yrs Experience Required) Fax Resume to 232-3799 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 30, 2005 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Notre Dame hits road for two Big East contests 
Road warriors, No. 10 Irish travel to New York, Milwaukee 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
Starting today and through Sunday, the Irish (9-1) will be in four different states in as many days. 
Notre Dame (9-1, 1-0 Big East) travels to Syracuse, New York for a 7 p.m. match against the Orange (10-5, 2-0 Big East) Friday. Then, the Irish will head to Milwaukee to take on Marquette (7-6, 1-1 Big East) in a 2 p.m. Sunday match. 
On Thursday, the Irish left South Bend for Syracuse. And Saturday, they're f1ying back to Chicago, only to take a bus to Milwaukee for the Sunday match. 
While they might be jet-lagged stronger, more experienced squad, but, still, the Irish hope for similar results. 
"We don't know as much about them [as Syracuse] just because they're new to the conference," she said. 
"They were a team that, last year, I think, many thought they should've been granted an at­large bid because they had a high RPI and finished strong in their conference." 
Neither of Notre Dame's week­end opponents should be taken lightly, Brown said. 
"I think they're both pretty strong teams and for sure will be in the top half of the Big East this year." 
This weekend, the Irish will do much more traveling than they will do playing. They'll be on the road -in unfamiliar places. But, when they're on the court, they'll feel right at home. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 


and road-weary weary, and while their setting is constantly changing, one thing remains a constant for the Irish -volleyball. 
No matter where they go, they go to play the same game. 
"We leave Saturday morning [for Milwaukee]," coach Debbie Brown said. "We'll walk through some things, and we'll watch film to give our players a good idea of the offense [Marquette runs]." 
Syracuse -recently lost 3-1 in a hard-fought match against No. 3 -Stanford. 
Brown knows the Orange pose plenty of challenges for her team. 
"They've got a lot of seniors and players who've played quite a bit," she said. 
"I don't think they have any glaring weaknesses." 
Though the Irish have little time to prepare for both Syracuse and Marquette, they have experience in cramming for matches. Last Sunday, they swept Seton Hall at home. They followed that win with a Tuesday sweep of Loyola Chicago. Just like this weekend, Notre Dame had only a day to prepare for the Ramblers. 
Brown's clearly got a plan. 
"Right now. obviously, we're focusing more on Syracuse," she said. "And then we'll turn our attention, Saturday, to Marquette." 
The Irish knew little about Loyola Chicago but managed to make quick work of the under­dog. Marquette, BFown said, is a 


• 


our 1 eas 
... we have. GE's LEXAN SLX body panels infuse plastic with pigment, reducing volatile organic compound emissions normally associated with conventional automotive point. We call this ecomagination. At GE we invite you to hatch your ecomaginotion through o career in engineering. finance, manufacturing, soles and marketing. human resources. or information technology. 


ecomagination~ 
to learn more visit us at gecoreers.com 
on equal opport'Uflity employer 

A diversified technology, financial services. media company. 
Friday, September 30, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Runners breezing tovvard Invite 

By CHRIS KHOREY 
Sports Writrr 
Aftnr two straight meets against smaller schools, the Notrn Dame men's and women's toams will faec several of the top-ranked squads in the nation in Friday's Notre Dame Invitational at Burke Memorial (;off Course. 
The mnnt, whic~h has been run continuously since 1955, will host 25 men's and 24 women's teams in the blue division raee for largm schools. Headlining tho men's field will be No. 1 Wiseonsin. No. 8 Arizona and the No. 6 Irish. On the women's side, top teams will include the No. 3 Irish, No. 5 Michigan and No. 18 Butler. 
Irish men's head coach Joe Piano said that along with hav­ing top c:ompetilion, the field is very deep. 
"One team who's phenomenal­ly undorrated is Alabama," Piano said of the Crimson Tide's No. 35 ranked men's team. "They have live Kenyans." 
Irish women's head coach Tim Connelly eredited the popularity of the meot among top pro­grams to its longtwity. 
"To qualify for the NCAAs, tlwre are automatic qualifying spots and at-large qualifying spots," he said. "The at large spots are basically based on who you beat. Our meet has beeome one of those meets where people know they ean see a lot of good competition." 
Piane agreed. 
"Outside of the so-called 'pre­national' meets, there are two meets in the country that are really respected," he said. "This is one of them." 
There will also he a gold divi­sion race for smaller schools. Twenty-three teams will com­pete on the women's side and 24 on the men's side. Canadian national champion Windsor and current Division Ill No. 1 Calvin will both run in the men's race, while traditional Division III powerhouse Edinboro will com­pete in the women's race. 
"The gold race exists because the field had just gotten too big. We can't accommodate that many people in one race," Connelly said. "It's primarily division one teams, but mostly those that aren't quite top twen­ty caliber. There are also some really good division II and III teams." 
Both Notre Dame teams will enter rosters of younger run­ners in the gold rac~e. 
"We're using the gold race for our team as an opportunity to get some younger kids some meet experience," Connelly said. 
After two meets of running 

freshmen and sophomores, both Irish squads will be at full strength this week in the blue raee. 
For the men, junior Kurt Benninger, senior Tim Moore, senior Sean O'Donell, freshman Patrick Smyth, sophomore Daniel Curran, senior Vinny Ambrico, sophomore Brett Adams and junior Todd Ptacek will compete. 
"We've got a nice mix of fresh­men, sophomores, juniors and seniors," Piane said of his line­up. 
Smyth and Adams earned their way into the lineup by virtue of strong performances at both the Valparaiso Invitational Sept. 9 and the National Catholic Championships Sept. 16. 
"If I decided !the ND Invitational lineup! before the season, there a couple of guys that are in the gold race that would have been in this race," Piane said. 
For the women, senior Molly Huddle, senior. Stephanie Madia, sophomore Sunni Olding, fresh­man Ramsey Kavan, junior Katie DeHusso, senior Elizabeth Webster, senior Jean Marinangeli and junior Amy Kohlmeyer will compete. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles eager for Windy City race 
Loyola-Chicago will host Saint Mary's as well as D-I teams 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 
The Belles have four freshmen who have already demonstrated an ability to score points in league meets. 
They have two veteran runners who are running close to their personal records. 
And they have one of their favorite races this weekend. 
For Saint Mary's, the out­look is positive for the 50­team Sean Earl Lakefront Invitational on the eampus of Loyola-Chicago Satut·day. 
"I think we're prepared for a race of that size," head 
times just over 20 minutes each, and Bauters nxpnets their performanees to con­tinue to improve 
"Last week, they were ... gntting to that 20 minute barrinr that ... lurks there for a lot of girls," Bautnrs said of hnr two top rumwrs. "They had really good weeks practieing." 
Bauters isn't just looking for good performances from her veterans, though. 
She's hoping for eon tin und suecess from the freshmnn. 
Last week, four of Saint Mary's top seven f'inislwrs were first-year runners. 
"The freshman havn to eontinue to step up and show eonstant improve­ment," Bauters said. "I think they'll be right up there with our first fnw runners. 
The course of the raee has 
more hills than 
the ones the 

coach .I ackie "/This race is/ Bellns have Bauters said. run on so far
probably one of
"The girls arc this year, so 
really excited. my favorite races times may be It's a really fun to go to." up, but meet." Bauters Saint Mary's expects the
Jackie Bauters
has competed in team to stay the meet every Belles coach competitivn. 
year since Bauters, a 2004 Saint Mary's alumna, ran for the team. 
"It was probably one of my favorite races to go to," Bauters said. "It's just a high-energy race." 
The Belles will enter the field coming off a fifth-place performance in the MIAA Jamboree last weekend. 
Sara Otto and Becky Feauto led the team in their solid performance with 
She said the 
Belles will fan~ ­well if they work as a col­lective unit, as they did last week. 
"A lot of positives eame out of that race bccausn we did have some girls pack together," she said. "I'm really happy about that. I feel people ran really smart races for themselves !last) weekend." 
Saint Mary's will compete in the women's Gold race, one of several raees on the 
day. 
The Belles will run against teams from Divisions II, Ill and the NAIA, and teams from Division I will compete in a separate race. 
Bau tnrs said her team enjoys the atmosphere of having Division I sehools at the meet but doesn't think it influences thn way the Belles run. 
"It's fun to be there and have them all there, but it doesn't hnlp us or hurt us," she said of the top-tier schools. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler I @nd.edu 



DVORAK AND THE AMERICANS-Saturday, October 8 Featuring masterworks by Dvorak, Copland, and Gershwin. Special guest, Leon Bates. 
Corne to the Symphony's gala grand opening featuring acclaimed pianist Leon Bates, the University of 
Notre Dame's first Performing Arts Guest Artist Resident, Craig Cramer, Professor of Organ at tt1e 
University of Notre Dame and the wonderful music of Dvorak and the Americans-Copland and Gershwin. 
Highlights include: Dvorak's "Carnival Overture" and "My Home," Copland's "Symphony for Organ and Orchestra" featuring Craig Cramer and Gershwin's "Piano Concerto in F" featuring Leon Bates. 
We're rolling out the red carpet for a Hollywood-style premier with spotlights. champagne and other surprises. Put on your favorite party clothes and join the festivities -order tickets today. 
SouthBendSymphony.com or call 235-9190 

)!AI HVIAL 

~lol(.ltlW~U~MI
~DEBARTOLO 

Hli!.I'H~
~"~"""'~rfl 

ARTS 

Open: Tues.-Sat. llam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. andMon. closed) Dine-in • Take-Out • Catering 
------~)'~.-----­
We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North (574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 
We are located in Rosdand area, near Pendle Road on 3 I page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 30, 2005 


NO SOFTBALL 
Gu111pf pleased with fresh111en, new Irish assistant coach 
nament, but the Irish will not This weekend's games will and is excited as seven fresh­out what kind of team we want
Four-game exhibition 
face the Broncos, whom they also provide the te11m a chance men have joined the squad. to be," Gumpf said. season ends tomorrow beat in a home-opener last to get used to the slightly altered "They talk about every team The team opened exhibition spring. coaching staff that the program being new every year," Gumpf play last Saturday and recorded
with pair ofcontests The game plan for this week­has seen this year. New assis­said. "[The addition of Lemire victories over Wayne State and end, according to head coach tant coach Lizzy Lemire has and the freshmen] has absolute­Detroit Mercy. Deanna Gumpf, will include filled a recent vacancy in the ly changed the chemistry of our The returning members of the what the team has coaching staff. team both on and off the field 2005 team fell right back into
By ANNA FRICANO worked on during "When I hired and ... I think it's been a very line, getting the games going
Sports Writer 
"We're ... not
the early weeks of Lizzy I knew she positive transition for this with their offense and making The Irish will get their final training and exhibi­focusing on who was going to be team." several solid plays in the field. game preparation before the tion play. good for our pro­Gumpf noted that this time of But at least four of the freshmen
we're playing. 
spring regular season this week­Gumpf is also not gram, because of the year is primarily used for were able to see playing time on
We're focusing on
end when they fmish exhibition too concerned the person she working on the fundamentals of Saturday. 
play tomorrow with two games. about the competi­our own team. " is," Gumpf said. the game and deciding what With months to go before the Notre Dame will begin the tion her team will "But I didn't real­kind of direction the team will season officially starts, the last four-team exhibition tourna­be facing. ize how good she take. And with the potential of exhibition games will help
Deanna Gumpf 
ment at 10 a.m. at Ivy Field with "They'll be simi­was going to be having five freshmen starting coaches and players alike see 
Irish coach 
a game against Southern lar teams [as last ... she has com-during the regular season, this where everyone is at, but no Illinois. The Irish will take the week]," Gumpfsaid. pletely exceeded aspect could be the most impor­final decisions will likely be field again in the last game of "And they're nice ball clubs, but my expectations as a coach." tant part of the ofT-season. made until March. the day versus Wisconsin­we're really not focusing on who Gumpf is extremely happy "The closer we get to the reg­Parkside. Western Michigan is we're playing. We're focusing on with the transition that her ular season the more we work Contact Anna Fricano at also scheduled to be at the tour-our own team. team has made so far this year on becoming a team; on finding africaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Irish 
continued from page 28 
Morgantown, Va. despite the fact Notre Dame recorded nine more shots in the game. West Virginia ended 2004 in seventh place in the Big East but returns 21 of 26 letter winners this year. 
The Mountaineers have had a fairly solid start to 2005, going 6-4 over their first ten games. Notre Dame and West Virginia have two opponents in common so far this year ­SMU and No. 1 New Mexico. The Mountaineers lost both games, while the Irish beat SMU 4-1 and tied New Mexico 1-1 in a season-opening exhibi­tion. 
Saturday's game represents the start of an important con­ference stretch for the Irish. At 2-2, Notre Dame has already doubled its conference loss­total from a year ago. After Saturday, the team will travel to Marquette and then return home next weekend for an through the second half. Both important tilt with conference players are questionable for power Connecticut. Saturday. 
The Big East is one of the If Rellas cannot go, Greg nation's top conferences every Dalby will again leave the mid­year, and an easy foe is. hard to field to join Ryan Miller and come by. Four Big East teams Ben Crouse in the back. Fellow are currently ranked in the freshman Matt Besler would NSCAA top 25 take Traynor's poll, and Notre place.
"/ think our
Dame just fell out In Wednesday's of the poll this league prepares win over Baylor, week. you well for the the Irish took an 
Clark loves early 1-0 lead but
post-season. " 
playing in such a could not find the fiercely competi­net for the rest of tive league. Bobby Clark the game. The 
"There's no Irish coach Irish are looking easy games in this to play more league," the aggressively coach said. "It's great. I think against West Virginia Saturday. our league prepares you well "First off, its big to have a for the post-season. If you do good start and to come out well in our league, you know strong," leading scorer Nate you are going to do well." Norman said. "If we get a lead, 
Notre Dame does have some we want to be able to hold on question marks heading into to that lead, but at the same Saturday's game. Senior tri­time keep attacking and keep captain Dale Rellas sat out last wanting to score more goals." game with an injury, while fel­low defender Jack Traynor had Contact Kevin Brennan at to be taken out midway kbrenna4@nd.edu 
That Notre Dame has done well all year. The Irish lead the

Road 
nation in goals per game with continued from page 28 4.8 and have the nation's lead­
ing scoring tandem in senior less in their first 11 games. forward Katie Thorlakson with The Golden Eagles posted their 31 points and second-semester sixth shutout of the season freshman forward Kerri Hanks Sunday, defeating Providence, with 37. 2-0. The Irish have played three 
Though conventional wisdom Big East games thus far and may predict a low-scoring have yet to surrender a goal. affair, Irish head coach Randy Marquette is 2-1 in conference Waldrum thinks play, beating the game could South Florida and
"We're probably 
be high-scoring. Providence and "Sometimes going to be South losing to 
you get just the Florida's biggest Connecticut, 2-1. 
opposite [of your Waldrum said
game of the year." 
initial inclina­the Irish are tions]," Waldrum sharper and more said. "I've got a Randy Waldrum focused now that feeling the game Irish coach the team has 
could open up." 
He said Marquette's aggressiveness on offense often leaves its defense struggling to get back in posi­tion when opponents take pos­session. 
"They're very fast, they're very athletic," Waldrum said of the Golden Eagles. "They're not a team that sits back. 
"Sometimes they're a little disorganized in getting back in form. It's going to be really important for us to counter [Marquette's aggression) and ... capitalize." 
played several 

games and entered its conference sched­ule. 
"I do think we step it up [against Big East opponents]," Waldrum said. 
After the Irish play Marquette, they will have a quick turnaround to travel to Tampa to face the Bulls of South Florida. 
Waldrum said the team will begin its journey at 4 a.m. with a bus ride from Wisconsin to Chicago's O'Hare International Airport, and the team won't 
AMt>HU'"' !The Observer 

Irish forward Kurt Martin, right, dribbles during Notre Dame's 2-1 loss to Cincinnati Sept. 25. 
arrive in Tampa until late that afternoon or evening. 
"It's a hard thing to do physi­cally -not getting the rest that you should," Waldrum said. "With the way the confer­ence is now, it's the only way you can [play all your confer­ence games]." 
He said the Irish will not look past the rebuilding Bulls. 
"The new teams [to the con­ference], it's been a new excitement for the players," he said. 
"We played Connecticut three times last year. [Playing South Florida) is kind of exciting bec~use it's something differ­ent. 
And Notre Dame playing any­one is a big game for the oppo­nent. 
"Our kids have to understand that we're probably going to be South Florida's biggest game of the year," Waldrum said. 
"They'll be a well-coached, disciplined team," he said. 
Note: 
+ Waldrum said he expected defender Kim Lorenzen to see limited playing time this week­end for the first time since Notre Dame's Sept. 9 loss to Santa Clara. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 
.--------------------------------------­
hiday, September 30, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS
JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 
WAif A SE:LOt-11>, 
'/~1--\ \HE~..)
1 

B~N A '10U.(J>-I
I IH.Ou.U.~Y 
01. A r•H:l E. • cR~P \<-IPS .
TI-\E. v-1~0\..E 
Fl ~i 'FLOOR \N"':'> A .2-~­

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Gray, in a way 67 Duke's fall, e.g. 
1 "Do you want 36 Team that last 68 First name of a me to?" won a World 1994 Peace Series in 1954 Nobelist
7 "Brava!" 38 Superstar
15 Add insult to injury 39 Military rule DOWN 
16 f~ake over the 42 Guy 1 Projecting coals, say mountain ridges
43 Ally 17 One seen in 2 Bleachers sign 
44 ·Bio fuse Haagen·Dazs. 3 Title character 
45 Bind tightly 18 On the run 
in a 1980's 47 Bites 
sitcom19 Whoop it up 

49 "_Sings 
4 Auto dealer's 

21 Some cats Dylan" (1965 paperwork
folk album) 

22 Barrie 5 Oaf 
buccaneer 51 "Oh, no!" 
6 Organ expert 23 Definitely no 52 Stir 7 Car safety Yankee fan 

56 Thousands may 
feature, for 25 Popular be in it short 

sandwich, 
58 It keeps some 
a Opposite of informally 

parts in place 

gaucheness291mages on 
so Lord of the 9 Band some Christmas rings?

wrapping 10 Mushroom 64 Bayed 
producers

32 Summer vacation spot, 11 Singles, e.g.
65 Knightly activity with "the" 66 Current amount 
12 In this localite 13 Hose problemANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
14 Race part 
8-:::+:+.;:.+:::=-1 20 New shoots 8-=+:::;:+;~.;..t 24 Makeshift mask, 
maybe 26 Points of origin -:::+:7t...lllll 27 AIa Nash 
'P.!!"I""!"t':':'+:::+:+.':­

28 Kind of mold 
30 Near Eastern honorific 
~~mmm••• 31 It can have
8HB..::-f~:-.:. knots "!!'9~-:-+-::-+=+=+=+=+-:-i 33 Increase 34 Natural flask 
-=+:::+::::-r.-1 

35 Provide 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
.Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
C.Al.L Me:. W 1-t E:N 'IOU.. f'lf'l[> 

WILLSHORTZ 

37 Hardly went out 50 In 59" Dancer'' with a bang (agitated) (Nureyev documentary)
40 Legal position 53 Checks out determiner suggestively 
60 Some flannels, briefly 41 It may be 54 Big maker of 
61 Part of a pair of associated with snowblowers tightsan "1": Abbr. 
55 More advanced 
62 No-good46 Pitching statistic 
57 Whistler's 63 Sched. 48 Reveals all? whistle coordinator 
For answers, call 1·900--5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1·800·814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
page 27 
HENRI ARNOLD


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
SURUP 


[ J I 
©2005 Tribune Med1a Services, Inc. All Rights ResolVed. 
VELCO 
± 


HAI<D TO AVOID AT THE S~ASHOI<~. 
www.jumble.com 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

lffiswer: "r I I I I I I I I I I I J' 
I Jumbles:
Yesterday's 
Answer: 

(Answers tomorrow) VYING OCTET URCHIN CODGER What the introvert wanted to be when he was stuck at the boring party-"OUTGOING" 
EUGENIA LAST



HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS I>AY: Natasha Gregson Wagner, 35; Tasminc Lica, 16; Jerry Lee Lewis, 70; Erika Eleniak, 36 
Happy Birthday: Stop procrastinating and make your dreams come true. A chance to do somethinif great is within reach. Fear of failure has held you back in the past. Don't give tn to those negative thoughts any longer. Your numhers are 13, 15, 24, 37, 44,48 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): You will he surprised hy the reaction you receive today. Negotiate deals that will allow you greater freedom in the future. A personal project started today will far exceed your expectations. ***** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Concentrate on what you can do to get ahead at work. An older relative may require more assistance than you can provide. ++ GEMINI (Mny 2I-.Junc 20): Make plans that will kave you free und clear to do your own thing when you want. A chance meeting with someone lrmn your past will be interesting. Love is in the stars. **** CANCER (.June 21-July 22): The Jcwcr expectations you have, the hcttcr. Don't count on getting help from anyone and you won't he disappointed. Financial gains are apparent and luck is in your comer. *** 
u:o (.July 23-Aug. 22): You may be a little emotional today, hut that's OK if it clears the air so you can move li.Jrward. End old prohlcms now. Rid yourself of relationships that hold you hack. • •• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Stop meddling in everyone else's atl'airs or you may lind yourself at a disadvantage at work. Less gossip and more hands-on work will bring results. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Someone you connect with will have a favorable emotional etl'ect on you. You'll have the opportunity to expand on an idea you've been contemplating. Your desire to help others will bring you help in return. •••• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 2 I): Keep your thoughts to yoursell~ A problem may arise if you get involved with someone Irom your past -· don't Ji.Jrget why you stopped seeing this person. •• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Ilcc. 21): Thoughts mu.~t he ti.JIIowed hy actions. If you don't take the initiative. you will end up standing still. ***** CAI>RICORN (J)cc. 22-.Jan. 19): Be quiet ahout your Jinancial affairs. You may want to change your will or move some of your money around. You need to be more intuitive; someone you love may be quietly brooding. • •• AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Fcb. Ill): You'll have a one-track mind today. Try to diversify or you will end up having big plans but accomplishing little. Organize your day according to your priorities. ••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Try to keep your personal and professional lives separate. A legal or health issue can be resolved if you do the legwork yourself. 
Birthday Baby: You arc well-liked and very intent on pleasing everyone around you. You are dedicated and loyal, but are often taken advantage of because of your kindness and generosity. You are artistic, unique and far too trusting. 
EugeniaS Web sites: astroadvic:e.CtJmfhr.fim. eu;.wnialast.crm1jiJr confidential t'rmsultalitms 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Narne ____________________~---------------------­Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ ­

THE OBSERVER 




PORTS
Friday, September 30, 2005 
page 28 
MEN'S INTERHALL -GOLD LEAGUE 
'Battle for the Chapel' anticipated 
Halls share building, but not love, heading into Sunday's game 
By TOM DORWART, 
JIM BRADY and JAMES FEGAN 
Sports Writers 
Their dorms are connected. They share a chapel. And last interhall season, they almost fm­ished in a tie. 
Now, in a watershed matchup in the men's Gold league, one of them can put themselves in the thick of the title race, while the other will likely fall behind. 
Keenan, the reigning interhall champions, and Stanford, a solid team that hasn't made the play­offs in three years, clash Sunday at 1 p.m. at Riehle Field in a North Quad rivalry matchup. 
"This is pretty much do-or­die," Keenan senior captain and lineman Vince Lyzinski said. 
"You never know if 2-2 is going to get you in the playoffs, but at 3-1, we could control our own destiny," he said, referring to his team's 1-1 record. 
Last Sunday the Knights fell 13-8 to the Dillon Big Red, their first loss in two years. Keenan 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL-BLUE LEAGUE 

Wild Women to clash with Chaos 
Walsh, Cavanaugh replay last season's title game Sunday 
By JACK THORNTON and 
BEN VINCENT 
Sporrs Writers 
Undefeated Cavanaugh and Walsh meet Sunday at 2 p.m. on the West Quad Fields in a rematch of last year's women's interhall title game. They'll bring with them play­off hopes for this season as well as scars from the last. 
"Everybody who's returning knows how big it's going to be, and the freshmen have gotten more and more excited as the season has gone on," Walsh captain Mary Ellen Botta said. 
The Wild Women have plen­. ty of reason for excitement this year. 
With a 3-0 record, they join the Chaos (also 3-0) as the only remaining undefeated teams in the women's Blue league. 
Botta credits offensive inge­nuity and turnovers as the keys to Walsh's success so far. 
"We've got some creative offense that we've been using in our games this season and a tough defense," Botta said. "We've had at least two inter­ceptions each game -we really rely on our defense." 
On top of its stifling defense, Cavanaugh boasts an offense that comes up big in clutch situations. 
"The defense has been a big factor in our winning because they haven't allowed one point yet and the offense can make plays when they need to," Chaos receiver Elisa Suarez said. "Whenever we need to step up we do." 
For both teams, it will likely be the first time they are challenged all season. 
The Cavanaugh defense has yet to allow a point this sea­son, while the Wild Women have outscored their oppo­nents 53-7. 
In a battle between two 
see CLASH/page 19 



ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
The Irish will travel to Milwaukee, then Tampa this weekend 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sporrs Writer 

Notre Dame will travel to the far corners of the Big East this weekend for two games as the Irish enter the heart of their conference schedule. 
No. 18 Marquette (9-1-1), in its first year in the Big East, will host Notre Dame (9-1-0) Friday in Milwaukee in a bat­tle of two exceptional defen­sive teams. Fellow conference newcomer South Florida (5-2­
1) will host the Irish for the first time in history Sunday. 
The Irish have allowed just one goal in their last five matches and have posted six shutouts in 10 games this sea­son. Marquette has had just as much defensive success, also holding six opponents score-
see ROAD/page 26 

Frequent fliers 

MATI SMEDBERG!The Stanford defenders attempt to bring down a Dillon runner during the Griffins' 6-2 win Sept. 18. 
feels it carinot afford to lose again and tumble in the stand­ings. 
The Griffins' senior captain and cornerback Phil McNicholas is quite aware of his opponent's precarious situation. 
"If there's a game that we real­ly want to win this year, it's defi­nitely this one," he said. "We haven't made the playoffs in three years, so being 2-0, having beaten two of the toughest teams in the league in Dillon and Keenan would definitely put us in a really good position to maybe lead our division going into the playoffs." 
The Griffins had a bye last Sunday but beat Dillon 6-2 in the season opener. 
If there's any doubt there will be some helmet-popping, trash­talking football going on in Sunday's neighborly battle, look no further than last year's score 
see CHAPEL/page 19 
MEN'S SOCCER 
WVU set to tangle 
withND 
By KEVIN BRENNAN Sports Writer 
When you lose just one game, it can be hard to for­get. Notre Dame certainly hasn't forgotten. 
In 2004, the Irish came up short in only one confer­ence match en route to the Big East regular season title. Notre Dame (6-3, 2-2 Big East) can exact some revenge Saturday when it hosts West Virginia at 7 
p.m. at Alumni Field. 
"We are very aware that they beat us last year." Notre Dame head coach Bobby Clark said. "They were the only team that beat us in the Big East, so we'd love to get that sorted out." 
The Mountaineers topped the Irish 1-0 last season in 
see IRISH/page 26 

ND SOFTBALL 
ND CROSS COI.JNTRY 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
SMC VOllEYBALl
ND VOllEYBAll 
SMC SOCCER 
LLI 
u 

The Belles head to
z The Irish will take on 
The Notre Dame 

Saint Mary's faces 
Tri-State will attempt 
Notre Dame hits the 

Chicago to participate
Southern Illinois and 
In vita tional, featuring 
road to play Syracuse 

local rival Bethel 
to upset the favored
=:5 

in the Sean Earl
-
= Wise onsin-Parksi de 
five top-ten teams; 
and Marquette in Big 

College Saturday at 10 
Belles when they meet 

Lakefront Invitational
tomorrow beginning at 
starts tomorrow on the 
East conference play. 

a.m. at the Angela 
at noon Saturday on
< 

this weekend. 
lOa.m. 
Burke Golf Course. 
Athletic Center. 
Saint Mary's field. 

page 25 
page 23 
= 
page 26 
page 25 
page 24 
page 23 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 30, 2005 
Last year left Irish wanting more 
Last year's game is full of indelible evidence of Purdue's domination at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Brady Quinn getting knocked 
down countless times. Taylor Stubblefield pumping his left arm in 


Purdue's  Heather  
"Boiler-Up" sym- Van Hoegarden  
bol. KyleOrton  Sports Writer  
making  

his first strides up the Heisman Trophy ballots, only to drop off the radar as the season went on. 
Yes, these were images from last year's 41-16 thrashing by Purdue -the first time Purdue won at Notre Dame Stadium in three decades. 
Quinn was sacked seven times, Stubblefield recorded the longest play from scrim­mage against the Irish in his­tory and Orton completed 21-of-31 passes for 385 yards with no interceptions. The image of Stubblefield pumping his arm into the air at the end of his 97 -yard reception from Orton over cornerback Dwight Ellick, who tripped on the play, is one to remember. The game, on the other hand, was one 
to forget. Saturday, Notre Dame would 
And that's what the Irish breathe much easier with the are setting out to do on second half of its season to Saturday as they travel to play. Ross-Ade Stadium to face a But Purdue will be on a team that has beaten them in mission after last week's the past two meetings. tough double-overtime loss 
Irish coach Charlie Weis to Big 10 foe Minnesota. has watched last year's tape That loss will make the and said that some of those Boilermakers hungry for a images won't reappear. win against a quality team, 
"Seven sacks against us, and the Irish that's not what we're looking are a great 
No one knows this better than Weis. 
"They're universally con­sidered by anyone in football the critical factors on offense and defense," Weis said of the offensive line and defen­sive backs. "They're the positions that have the most guys out there that are the easiest ways for you to win 
and the easiest 
ways for you to 

for," said Weis, who team to take it lose."
On Saturday, Notre 
expressed this to the team out on -espe­The offensive 
Dame will find out
on Tuesday. "And it doesn't cially in a rival­line has played make a difference whether I ry game under just how good its well thus far throw it 10 times or throw it the lights in key positions are. this season, but 
50 times, we're not going to West Lafayette. get sacked seven times." "It's a staple 
The Irish have something game every to prove against their in­year when we play Notre state rivals, who have beaten Dame and all eyes are on them in the last two meet­us," Purdue quarterback ings. But not only that, they Brandon Kirsch said. "Every need this win. other team in the country 
It's.the last game before wants to be in the position to Notre Dame's first week off, play Notre Dame, and we're and ifthe Irish get a win fortunate enough to have 
they will ~it 4-1, undefeat­ed on the road with just one road game left. (Notre Dame plays at Stanford on Nov. 26). After the that opportu­nity this 
With a win on 
Saturday."
Saturday, Notre Dame But to pre­vent the
would breathe much 
Boilermakers
easier with the second 
from extend­halfofits season to ing their win 
play. streak to three games, the Irish must 
week to prepare and mend bumps and bruises, No. 1 Southern California waits in the wings, as does No. 10 Tennessee. With a win on play well in two areas -the offensive line and the sec­ondary -both of which were abused by Purdue last year. 
What is a strong password? 
A Strong Password is a difficult-to-guess password that you use with your NetiD to access insideND, Notre Dame email and shared storage spaces, such as NetFile. It is at least eight characters long, and is made up of upper and lowercase random letters, numbers, punctuation marks and other keyboard symbols. · 
What is a weak password? 
A weak password is one that is short and easy to guess. 
What's an example of a weak password? 
Your first name followed by your dorm room number is an example of a weak password. 
What's an example of a Strong Password? 
myPWis1Uwg 

How can I remember a password that complex? 
It's a "passphrase" derived from "my password is one you won't guess." Remember the phrase; remember the password. 
How do I change to a Strong Password? 
Go to https://password.nd.edu, and follow the instructions. 
before last 
week, Purdue 
had only given up 36 yards on the ground and has recorded nine sacks in three games. 
Kirsch has shown he can throw the ball and run the option just as well in Purdue's spread offense, and Dorien Bryant has proved to be an adequate replacement for Stubblefield. 
And so on Saturday Notre Dame will find out just how good its key positions are, and if they're good enough for a win against its intrastate rival this year. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd. edu 

game hype 

"This year [Purdue] has evolved at offense since Kyle Orton left." 

'1t's a new, different style ofoffense this year. We're just preparing as much as 

Mike Richardson

we can. 
Irish defensive back 


"They've been in overtime wins and overtime losses, so obviously they're very 
Brandon Harris 
experienced."

Irish defensive 
back 

'111hen you play a team like Notre Dame, your team looks forward to that." 


Why should I change to a Strong Password? 
(1) 
Weak passwords put sensitive and personal information at risk that can be used by identity thieves (you don't want strangers guessing your password and pretending to be you) ; 

(2) 
If you do not change to a Strong Password, your existing password will expire, disrupting your access to Notre Dame networked applications, including email and shared storage. 


Will all existing passwords expire at the same time? 
No. Passwords that have not been changed (to 
Strong Passwords) since July 5, 2005 will be 
randomly tagged for expiration sometime between 
now and the spring of 2006. 
How will I know that my password is set to expire? 
You will receive an email from the OIT, and you will 
have 30 days from the day of receipt to change to a 
Strong Password. Once you change your password 
to a Strong Password, you won't have to change it 
again for another 180 days. 

When it comes to Strong Passwords, will the 
University make exceptions for some campus 
computer users? 

No exceptions will be granted. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 

Office of Information Technologies http://oit.nd.edu 

Friday, September 30, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Born to run 
Walker wants more than an individual record as his four 100-yard games contribute to 3-1 start 
the Irish to an average of 179 yards per game on thn ground and seven total touchdowns ­two by Walker. All of it comes from Weis' play card. 
"IWeis' playcallingJ has deli­nitely boostnd our confidence," Walker said. "When we're out there the defense doesn't really know what they're going to get from us. We l'eel that whatever play we're running ... it's going to work. We kind of feel like we can't be touched while we're out there." 
Harris, Walker and the Irish have been careful not to criticize the previous coaching staff for struggles in 2004, but thny also acknowledge the new leadership is a big reason for their success. 
"I don't think there's a better play-caller, I don't think there's a better head coach out there right now," Harris said. "You know that any given play coming in from the sideline could be the play for a touchdown. Whether that's in the middle or the drive, early in tho drive or deep into tho drive. ]Wois] has our full eonlidonce. lie's won l'our Super Bowls. What elsn do you want to say?" 
Clearing the way 
With only six regular contr·ibu­tors, the o/l(msive line has boon forced to lake on an aggressive, no-excuses attitude under the new coaehing staff. Tho recent injury ol' center Bob Morton against Washington has thinned the group of regular contribu­tors to l'ive, hampering their numbers but not their attitude. 
"We don't get all the glory, )we're spurred on by] that desire to kind of spring the offense," Irish guard Dan Stevenson said. "It all starts up front. I think coach Weis has instilled [this mindsetl in us. You can't let yourself feel sorry for yourself because you're tired or you're banged up." 
While Morton's injury will hin­der the thin unit, Latina contin­ues to stress the need to strive for perfection in order to contin­ue the powerful rushing attack. 
"I don't know if you ever play a perfect game in the game of football, but you sure try to,' Latina said. "We're trying to cor­rect any little mistake because you never know when that one little fundamental mistake is going to cost you the game. 
"Every game is a new entity, a separate deal. Every defense that you face ... gives you differ­ent problems so you have to get through the week and nx and learn how to attack that defense." 
Often underappreeiated by fans and the media, the Irish oll'ensive line receives plenty of respect from the one group that has the most to gain from it ­Walker and the Irish running hacks. 
"I really appreciate the things they're doing out there for me," Walker said. "It's not just me. They're making big holes for me to run through, and I'm a small­er guy, so I can squeeze through the holes." 
But the line isn't the only group making room for Walker to run in 200!i. Rashlm Powers­Neal and true freshman fullback Asaph Schwapp have provided a productive combination at the fullback position. 
"!Powers-Neal and Schwappl are incredible," Walker said. "They just clear the lane for me They're just two big, fast guys ­like trains running through tho hole." 

Continuing the success 
Notre Dame is impressed with its success rushing the ball this season. But the key to keeping up the potent Irish running game, according to the players and coaches, is to avoid the temptation to be satisfied. 
"It does feel good as an ollense to have the success that we've had," Walker said. "But at the same time there's pressure because we've got to keep these numbers up." 
And the key to continuing the high numbers, Stevenson said, is adding on what the team has been doing correctly. 
"We're all on the same pagn," Stevenson said. "I think the big thing is just confidence. Its something we just need to keep building on." 

If the past is any indication, Notre Dame will struggle at times tomorrow. Purdue has beaten Notre Dame two years in a row. The last timn the lrisb visited West Lafayette, in 200:{, they ran 25 times for 49 yards in a 23-10 loss. The way to win this year's game, the players say, is to run right at the Boilermakers, wearing their defense down and giving Walker a chance to break loose. 
"You have to go into every play hoping that that play makes a difference," Harris said. "But if it doesn't you just have to go to the next play." 
Beeause with a diiTerence­maker like Walker in the back­field, that next play might be a touchdown. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
By MIKE GILLOON 
Spom Ediwr 
II' someone had told Darius Walker last year that hn would hngin the 200!i season with !'our­straight I00-yard rushing per­l'orrnanens, lw would have been thrillnd. But allnr being tho first Irish running back to do just that to open a snason, Walker and his team rnatos aren't satis­find. 
Players and coaches say it is this hunger that has made Notre I>anw succnssl'ul in rushing tho hall so l'ar -and is key in con­tirllling the solid Irish ground ganw. 
The Irish have thrived this season with a combination ol'· Walker's shifty ability to turn a loss into a I !i-yard gain, coach Charlin Wnis' shrewd play-call­ing and -most importantly, according to Walker -the l)(~r­l'ormanen or tlw oll'nnsivn linn. 
Making a move 
Thrnn morn rons1~cul.ive I00­yard ganws and Walker will lin l'ornH•r-Notrn I>anw running hark Len Becton l'or t.hn Irish record ol' consnrut.ivn games rushing l'or over tho 1:entury mark. 
While tlw sophomore prnl'nrs to ITPdil his olrtmsive line l'or his rhance at ennwnling a place in Irish history, his leammalns think lw's !wing too modest. 
"What most impresses me is his eonsislmu:y," Irish l'ullback llashon Powers-Neal said. "lie just goes out there and plays hard every play. lie gives it his all every limn." 
This effort has propelled Walker to 448 yards this season, wnll on his way to eclipsing the 7Hh yards and l'reshman rushing rm:ord lw sol last season. 
I lis running style can be called unconventional. Instead of hit­ling the hole right away, Walker often hesitates, opting to juke a dnfender or reverse to the oppo­siln side of the field to avoid the dnfense. 
l~ven whnn the opposition wins tlw lmllln on tlw line. Irish tack­In Hyan !farris lwlieves Walker always has a chance to break open a big play. 
"IThn key to our suecess this year isl we have talented backs," Harris said. "We work hard as an oll'ensive line. Coach Latina has really worked us hard in lnrms of bning physical and working technique. 
"But a lot of times it's just our backs being talented individuals who can make a play out of nothing or who can just make a guy miss and stretch that run for an extra ten or f'il'tnen more yards." 
Tho new coaching staff has also helped Walknr average 4.H yards por carry and 112 per game. Irish offensive coordina­tor/ running backs coach Mike Haywood, who eoached first­round NFI. dral'l pick Cedric Benson last season as running backs coach at Texas, has helped Walker be more patient in his dncisions. 
"lin's helped me understand that somn plays lake a little longnr to develop." Walker said. "I don't l'nnl too antsy and fenl like I just have to do something when I have the ball. IThe gamel is not such a shock anymore." 
Calling the play 
Coming to college l'rom his role as offensive coordinator of the Now England Patriots, Charlie Weis brought with him a philosophy of taking what the opponnnt gives you. And with tho Irish passing game flourish­ing and spreading the field, opponnnt's rush defenses have tended to give Notre Dame plen­ty on the ground. 
Walker credits Weis with knowing what plays to call to thin the defense and officiently pick it apart. 
"Coach has one of those philosophies where we're just ready for everything every week," Walker said. "The object is to do whatever's working. If they roll the safeties down and stull' eight, nine men in the box, then we'll just throw the ball. And if Lhey don't staek it like that, then we'll just run it." 
And run it they have. Walker's 23 carries per game have helped 

SOFIA BALLON!The Observer 

Darius Walker Is surrounded by Michigan players on Sept. 10 in a 17-10 Irish upset of the Wolverines. 
by the numbers 
Total offense by Purdue in last year's game at Notre Dame Stadium, including 413 passing yards and a then­
512

record-tying four touchdown passes by Kyle Orton. 
25 
Number of wins Purdue has recorded against the Irish, second only to USC (28). 
Wins Tiller's Purdue teams have at home, against 11 losses. In that span, however, Purdue has been 7-8 against ranked 
40 
teams at home. 

3 
Games in which Brady Quinn has passed for more than 300 yards. He is the first Irish quarterback to do this three times in asingle season. 
Brandon Hoyle's rank in the country in number of tackles-for-loss per game. The defensive captain is averaging 2.63 per game. 
4 

1896 
Year of the first meeting between Notre Dame and Purdue, a28-22 victory for the Boilermakers. 
Alter Saturday's game, the number of times these two teams will have played each other. 
77 

Number of miles that separate Notre Dame (South Bend) and
150 
Purdue (West Lafayette). 

Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 3-1 AP: 13 Coaches: 14 

Charlie Weis head coach 

HEAD 

Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
NOTRE DAME 2005 Schedule 
Sept. 3 at Pittsburgh-W Sept.lO at Michigan -W Sept.17 MICHIGAN ST. -L Sept.24 at Washington -W 
Nov.5 TENNESSEE Nov.12 NAVY Nov.19 SYRACUSE Nov.26 at Stanford COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 

LLI 
:!: 
<C 0 
LLI
a: 
..... 
0 
z 
LLI 
::J 
0
a: 
::J 
D. 
rn rn 
~ 
<C 
z 
<C 

Charlie Weis is finishing up  Brady Quinn is on pace  Walker is off to one of  The absence of Rhema  
a tough road stretch for  for one of the best years  the best starts in Notre  McKnight due to injury  
any coach, much less a  by an Irish quarterback  Dame history with four  remains a concern.  
man whose first college  since Joe Theismann in  consecutive 100-yard  However, Jell' Samardzija  
head coaching job is at  1970. Quinn tallied five  games. He is well on his  had an eight-catch, 164  
Notre Dame. l-Ie's been  touchdown passes in the  way to a 1 ,000-yard sea­ yard day la<>t week. He has  
perfect so far in opponent's  loss to Michigan State, the  son with 479 and is living  six scoring receptions in  
stadiums, and he will need  most ever by a Notre  up to last year's hype.  only four games. Tight end  
to rely on his sharp play- Dame signal-caller in one  Rashon Powers-Neal has  Anthony Fasano is tied  
calling to pull out the win  contest, and is _averaging  four touchdowns rushing  with Samardzija for the  
in the night game.  295 yards per game.  to lead the team.  team lead with 21 catches.  
Joe Tiller is in his ninth  Brandon Kirsch started  Purdue is surrendering only  Akron passed for 362  
year at Purdue with a  four games in 2002 and  3.0 yards per rush but gave  yards against Purdue in  
64-38 record. He's the  two last year after Kyle  up 301 yards on the ground  the season-opening win.  
second-winningest  Orton's down slide. He  to Minnesota in their loss  Brian Hickman has one  
coach in Boilermaker  takes over full-time for  last Saturday. End Ray  interception at cornerback  
history with an impres- Purdue this season.  Edwards has 4.5 tackles for  while free safety Kyle  
sive .627 win percent- Kirsch averages 212.7  loss. Tackles Brandon  Smith has two. Cornerback  
age. He has led the team  passing yards per game  Villarreal and Brent Grover,  Zach Logan ha<> ten tackles  
to eight bowl berths.  and has tossed four  both ftfth-year seniors, have  and one sack while the  
The coach is 4-1 in night  touchdowns along with  combined for a total of 27  team has nine total sacks  
games at Purdue.  three interceptions.  tackles.  this year.  

Kirsch is talented but  Minnesota runs the ball  Samardzija and Fasano  
lacks experienc~i.Jbgpgh  much more than the  are quickly turning into  
Tiller's schemes i'will I  average team, so it's  one of the best pass­ 
ensure some points. Quinn  expected that the  catching .duos in the  
is averaging nearly 30Q  p~Of,f  nation. Quinn has been  
yards per game and has on~ of the best play·~~lle~~  ~It~ ~ af\p  efficiently picking apart every defense this year;  
in football in W~is. J]i$  short game have been  and Purdue, though  
tqughnQ~s.will k:eep )lim  effective, and the matchup  experienced, will have  
standing tall in the pocket  Saturday will be a deciding  a hard time stopping  
und()r.the Purdue Jnu$h.  factor in the game's result.  the Irish air attack.  

Friday, September 30, 2005 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 

No. 
1 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 23 24 25 26 26 27 27 28 29 30 31 32 32 33 34 35 35 36 37 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 45 46 47 48 49 50 52 53 54 57 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 66 fiB 69 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 
iB 
79 81 82 83 
B4 
85 85 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 96 98 99 

Charlie Weis first season at Notre Dame career record: 
3-1 
at Notre Dame: 
3-1 
against Purdue: 0-0 
Roster 

Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR D.). Hord WR 6-1 198 FR Darius Walker RB 5-11 200 so Anthony Vema~ia DB 6-3 221 so Rhema McKnig t WR 6-1 215 SR Ray Herring DB 6-0 199 FR Darrin Bragg WR 6-1 192 so junior Jabbie RB 6-0 188 so Tom Zbikowski DB 5-11 203 JR Brady Quinn QB 6-4 231 JR David Grimes WR 6-0 170 FR Marty Mooney QB 6-2 207 SR 
QB 6-2 207 FR~:~7l~1~:y QB 6-2 196 FR Leo Perrine DB 6-0 186 so Rashon Powers-Neal RB 6-3 238 SR Geoffrey Price p 6-3 186 SR Dan Gorski QB 6-3 196 FR Chinedum Ndukwe DB 6-2 219 JR D.). Fitzpatrick K/P 6-2 206 SR Terrail Lambert DB 5-11 188 so Maurice Stovall WR 6-5 222 SR Ambrose Wooden CB 5-11 197 )R Chase Anastasio WR 6-2 203 JR 
W. David Williams DB 5-10 170 so Brandon Erickson WR 6-0 178 so Nate Schiccatano DL 6-2 237 SR Wade lams DB 5-9 188 so Travis Thomas RB 6-0 215 JR David Bruton DB 6-2 187 FR John Lyons RB 6-1 205 JR Kyle McCarthy DB 6-0 189 FR LaBrose Hedgemon DB 5-9 190 )R Mike Richardson DB 5-11 193 SR jake Carney DB 6-0 187 SR Jeff Jenkins RB 6-0. 232 SR Alvin Reynolds DB 5-10 180 so Justin Hoskins RB 5-10 186 so Tommie Lee DB 6-2 200 JR Ashley McConnell RB 6-0 247 JR Tim Kenney DB 6-0 180 )R Brandon Harris DB 6-0 198 SR Junior Jabbie DB 5-11 190 FR Matt Mitchell DB 5-8 187 SR Nick Possley WR 6-1 183 so Brandon Hoyle LB 6-0 236 SR Maurice Crum, Jr. LB 6-0 220 so Scott Smith LB 6-3 234 FR Kevin Washington LB 6-1 231 FR Anthony Salvador LB 6-2 233 SR 
RB 6-0 250 FR
~!:F~/!;~wapp K 183
5-10 JR 
Rich Whitney DB 6-2 213 JR 
LB 6-1 234 SR~~~f:e~~~mas LB 6-3 240 JR Steve Quinn LB 6-2 220 JR Matt Augustyn FB 6-3 220 JR Dan Santucci OL 6-4 290 SR joe Brockington · LB 6-1 212 JR joseph Boland LB 6-2 242 SR David Fitzgerald OL 6-4 293 SR Nick Borseti LB 6-4 238 JR Dwight Stephenson DL 6-2 252 JR Abdel Banda LB 6-1 220 so james Bent OL 6-2 265 SR Casey Cullen DL 6-1 238 JR ).).jansen LS 6-3 242 so Scott Raridon OL 6-7 304 SR JclfTisak OL 6-3 305 FR Derek Landri DL 6-3 263 SR ~an Harris OL 6-5 288 JR 
ciiKennedL DL 5-11 260 SR James Boncl i OL 6-5 280 SR Paul Duncan OL 6-7 292 FR Mark LeVoir OL 6-7 311 SR Dan Stevenson OL 6-6 292 SR Chris Frome DL 6-5 268 SR Bob Morton OL 6-4 292 SR Michael Turkovich OL 6-6 290 FR john Sullivan OL 6-4 298 JR Brian Mattes OL 6-6 285 SR Rob Woods WR 6-2 208 SR Matt Shelton WR 6-0 172 SR Jeff Samardzija WR 6-5 216 JR Michael O'Hara WR 5-10 180 SR 
TE 6-4 253 FR~~e~~:~ico TE 6-5 245 so Marcus Freeman TE 6-3 245 SR Anthony Fasano TE 6-5 255 SR john Carlson TE 6-5 255 SR Brian Beidatsch DL 6-3 294 SR Craig Cardillo K 6-0 174 )R Derrell Hand DL 6-3 301 FR Dan Cherv anick DL 6-1 259 SR Justin Brown DL 6-3 247 so Victor Abiamiri DL 6-4 260 JR Bobby Renkes K 6-0 195 JR Pat Kuntz DL 6-2 267 FR Trevor Laws DL 6-1 293 JR Ronald Talley DL 6-4 261 so 
Heather Van Hoegarden 
AME 


In a typical Notre Dame-Purdue fashion, thisThe lowest point total Notre Dame has had, game will be high scoring. But the Irish prevailother than its output in the hostile Big House, in this one, unlike the Michigan State game.
is 36. Charlie Weis' offense works. And make Brady Quinn will fmally get the best of Purdue 
Irish 

no mistake, Brady Quinn remembers the last after two years of throwing over 297 yards andtime he played in WestLafayette, and he won't losing. Look for Darius Walker to play a key role let a similar result happen. The Irish defense in this win, and the momentum will carry itsteps up when it needs to, and Quinn rolls. 
experts 

nicely into its week ofT. · 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 45 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 41 Purdue 25 Purdue 38 

Pat Leonard 
Managing Editor 

Friday, September 30, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 
Purdue Boilermakers 
Record: 2-1 AP: 22 Coaches: 20 (tied) 
HEAD 
Purdue Boilermakers 
-A_ 
~ 

OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 
40-CrunJ 
4-V«~rnup:ha 
C'ORNiiRilACK l2·Wood<•n 
15-Fonine 

BOILERMAKERS 
PASSING 

.Jnnld Void and Kory Slu~nt<; havn split carries this fall. Void has livn touchdowns liw 234 yards whiln Shnnt<; has throe scores on 172 yards. Fifth-year snnior center MaLL Turrwr leads an ollimsivn linn that has sophornorns starting at Lhn right guard and right Larkin positions.  
Michigan St.aln had thn bnsl day running against Notre I>anw this smL'ion, gaining IhI yards on 3(, carrins. Thn Irish wnrn abln to hold Washington to only 41 yards last Saturday. BrmJ()i m lloytn will nnnd to slnp up and again stop rushnrs against Purdue <L'> hn IUL'i all ynar.  
Void gavo tlw Irish lil'i hL'it snason. gaining !i3 yards on only I I carries. Notre Damn's dnfnnsn has not givnn up much on tlw gt"UUJH) hUt Will IH)Pd tO contain K.irsdt, who h<L'i ~1 yards on Lhn snason. If l'urdun can run nllidently, the Irish ofl'ense will stay oll'Lhn lidd.  

Dorip,n Bryant has 18 receptions this season, ten more than the next closest Purdue receiver. Tight end Dustin Keller leads tho team with two touchdown receptions. Kirsch is 44-of-84 for 638 yards this season and has been sacked only twko.  
Washington was able to throw for 408 yards on only 19 completions last weok. Notre l>amo has already given up more than 300 yards passing twice this year. Cornerback Ambrose Wooden ha<; four passes broken up this year, while Chinodum Ndukwc IHL'> lilur fumble rneovP.riPs.  


PURDUE 

2005 Schedule 
CORNERBACK 
30-Ricbnrdsun 29-Hede.~J.:jr\Oil U 
Sept. 10 
Sept. 17 
Sept. 24 
Oct. 1 
Oct.8 
Oct. 15 
Oct. 22 
STRONG SAFETY 9-Zblkowskl 
Oct. 29 
28-MoCnrthy 
Nov. 5 Nov. 12 
NOTRE DAME 
Nov. 19 
DEFENSE 
AKRON-W at Arizona -W at Minnesota -L NOTRE DAME IOWA 
. 
NORTHWESTERN at Wisconsin at Penn State MICHIGAN STATE ILLINOIS at Indiana 

SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
.Jeff Samardzija and Scott Haridon struggled witl1 ba<;ic extra points and lield goals last week. ILl. Fitzpatrick is capable of making long kicks whnn tho hold is correct. David Grimes returned hi<; lirst kiekoll' for a 31-yard gain, while Tom Zbikowski will return punt<; again thL'> week.  
Kicker Dave Brytu<; ha<; nine touchbacks on kickolls this season. Place-kicker Ben .Jones has only attempted one field goal ­a 47 -yard boot against Arizona. Brytus also handles punting duties, averaging :~7.5 yards on 20 kicks. Dorien Bryant has live kiekoll' returns for 93 total yards.  
Samardzija looked like he had ncvnr handled a field goal snap before against Washington. Bryant will try to breaJ-th'rougtJ an Irish kir,k coverage group thai. has bnen successful at stilling most returns this season. Brytus' short punts will factor in the lield position battln.  

Notrp, Dame is unbP.atp,n on the road this year. Tom Zbikowski prides himsolf in quieting opposing crowds and will look Lo do the same at Ross-Ad<1. Charlie Weis had the Irish looking sharp in their only other night game -an opening-game victory at Pitl'iburgh.  
Purdue shellacked Quinn in his first career start in 2003, intercepting him li1ur times. This is only the fimrt.h night game in Ross­Ade Stadium history and tho crowd will he eager to see Quinn struggle again and Purdue win their tltird straight against Notre Damn.  
The Boilermakers arc 40-11 at e but 7-8 d teams The l have all day to pr .... o and will be exttell1¢ly loud, making qom, ··· ···· ·cation hard fo):,; Notre Dame ofT1;rri firing up Purdue.  

z 
0 
-1
::a 
1'1"1 
~ 
s: 
1'1"1 
"'C 
c:
::a 
0 
c: 
1'1"1 


Joe Tiller tenth season at Purdue career record: 
101-67-1 
at Washington: 
62-37 

against Notre 
No. 2 3 3 4 5 6 
7 
8 9 10 11 12 13 13 14 15 15 16 17 18 19 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 
44 
45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 
54 
55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 99 

Dame: 4-4 
head coach 
Roster 

Name Pos. Ht. WI. YR Ray Williams WR 6-2 193 SR Garret Bushong TE 6-5 ~40 ]R Henry Lau Qll 6-5 214 FR Fabian Martin CB 5-11 188 so Zach Log.m CB 6-1 174 so Dt•smond Tardy WR 6-1 183 so Kyle Smith FS 6-4 216 SR Casey Welch K/1' 5-9 165 SR Dorien Bryant WR 5-10 175 so Ray Edwards DE 6-6 270 ]R Brandon Kirsch QB 6-3 208 SR Curtis Painh.•r QB (>-4 212 so Torri Williams FS 6-2 200 so joe Williams Rll 5-8 197 so joey Elliott Qll 6-3 200 FR Christian Grahotm FS 6-2 182 FR David Ramirt•z Qll 6-2 202 FR Duvl' Brytus 1'/K 6~4 227 so Josh FPrv;uson 1.1! 6-3 234 JR Bmndon King CB 5-11 185 FR Bnmdon Whittington FS 6-2 198 so Adam Wolf 55 5-11 195 FR Andrt• Chattams WR 6-0 204 SR Greg Orton WR 6-4 195 FR Dray Mason Rll 5-10 180 FR Kl•vin Nol'l WR 6-3 203 SR Sean Petty Cl! 6-2 174 Sf~ Paul Long CB 6-2 193 ]R Lance Ml•lvin 55 5-9 193 so Brandon jones Rll 5-11 236 SR Dustin Keller TE 6-4 245 JR Jason w~rner 55 6-4 210 f'R George 11,111 l.B 6-2 250 Sf~ Bernard Pollard 55 6-2 226 JR }L•rod Void RB 6·2 212 51{ Bri<m Hickman CB 6-0 178 SR Kyle Williams I.B 6-2 212 I'R Ben Jom•s K 6-1 213 Sll Dan Bick l.ll 6-1 216 so Aaron L1m• Rll 5-8 172 so Paul Dubler CB 6-1 180 SR Bridrl M.1ttawak' 55 5-8 199 SR Bobby lwuchu wu l.B 6-2 24(, SR Kory Sht't•ts RB 6-0 201 so John Karnpert Lll 603 218 SR Anthony Heyg<K>d I'll 6-2 215 so Kyle Mossbruckt•r I' 5-8 191 f'f{ Frank llalliburton l.ll 6-3 240 I'R Tom llansL'n K 5-9 Hoi! K EL~enc Bright DE 6-4 250 ]R To Millt•r RB 6-1 193 I'll Mikt• Dum•U I.B 6·0 210 ]R Pat KohtJ: 55 6-1 208 SR Anthony SpL•nn•r DE 6·3 263 SR Eric IIL•dstrom OT 6-7 270 f'R Garrl't Millt•r OT 6-8 263 so Adam llubnl'r DE n-3 265 SR Nick Fincht•r oc 6-4 287 JR ]art•d Zwillilng DT 6-4 270 1'1~ Brandon llillam•al DT 6-2-289 SR MattTunwr c 6-3 290 SR Dan McGowL'Il OG 6·0 279 Sfl Brent Grovt>r SR 6-3 303 SR Stanford Kc.>glar Ll! 6-2 227 so ZacSmith ex~ 6-4 285 so Chris M.1tbum L.~ 6-0 204 JR 
LS 6-3 280 £'£{

~~~l>i~t~~~man c 6-2 261 f'l{ Nick Ralwn ex; 6-3 261 Sl{ Mike Otto 01' 6-5 292 Sf~ Jordan GrimL'S oc 6-3 251 so Robbit• PnwL•ll OG 6-5 283 ]I~ Neal Tull OG 6-3 292 JR Zachjom•s OT 6-4 291 I'R Ak•x MagL'<.' DT 6-5 275 f'R Jt~rt•d johnson ex; 6-3 2R6 f'R Dan Zalt•ski OT h-4 288 so Scan Sesler OT n-8 282 Sl' ZZach Rcckman OT 6-6 245 FR jason Kadnko OT 6-6 300 FR Cory Benton c 6-3 245 so }t.'rmainl' Guynn DT 6-1 276 so Bri.:tn llan• WR 6-3 190 SR AI Royal l.B 6-0 23f> SR Dl'n•k RL•nson WR 6-1 200 FR Jakl• CunninHh,lm WR 5-11 1Hn JR Btron Williams WR h-3 191 JR C iff Avril Ll! 6-3 2.11 so Chase L<>eklidt•r WR 6-0 196 SR Charles Dowid TE 6-6 260 SR Jakt• Standl•ford WI~ 6-2 197 }I~ Kyle fngrohom WR 6-9 22M ]R ~an Jlak<•r DT 6-6 267 so ickCvallu DE 6-3 256 SR Mikl• Nl•al DT o-4 245 FR Roh Ninkovich DE 6-3 251 SR jL•rry Wasikowski TE 6-4 243 so Kcyon Brown DE 6-3 2.10 FR David &•igh TE 6-5 258 FR AIPc Hubt>r TE 6-5 225 I'R jonathan Patton DT 6-4 2n9 so 

Notre Damo has not proven it can slow down any quartvth~tck yet this season, Kit·sth ·Js known morn for hL'> lHgs tllan his arm, hut Boilermaker quarterbacks have given the Irish fits in tho past 8Pv­p,ral gan1es. Wooden and Hichardson will be tested once again at Clifnorback. 
Purdue hasn't beaten Notre Dame three 
While Purdue and head coach Joe Tiller straight times since 1967-69. But the eombi­have added an option component to a high­nation of a night-game atmosphere at Ross­flying, wide-open passing attack, the Notre Ado Stadium as well as a stout Boilermaker Dame defense will once again bend but not 
Irish

defense returning 11 starters will ensure a break. The Irish snap a two-game losing repeal of the past two years. The game will streak against the Boilermakers heading into be tight and well-played, but the a bye week before a much-anticipated show­Boilnrmakers save their best game of the down with USC. 
experts
year for tho Irish and come out on top. Matt Puglisi FINAL SCORE: Purdue 36 Associate FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34 Notre Dame 31 Sports Editor Purdue 20 
Mike Gllloon 
Sports Editor 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 30, 2005 
Sizing up the Irish and the Boiler111akers 
NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE PURDUE'S OFFENSE 
vs vs
AVERAGE PER GAME PURDUE'S DEFENSE NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 

total yards gained total yards allowed 


rushing yards gained 

179.8 rushing yards allowed 


passing yards gained passing yards allowed 

kick return yards gained kick retnrn yards allowed punt return yards gained L_ 15.8 14.61 punt return yards allowed-~------' ~1.7 

yards per punt 

39.5 37.5 punts blocked 
~1 
turnovers lost turnovers recovered 


total points scored 

~__34__,1 ....38.3;
total points allowed 

Notre Dame yards penalized Purdue yards penalized 


NOTRE DAME 
DEFENSIVE LINE 
Trevor Laws and Victor Abiamiri, above, had high expectations going into 2005. However, they have been quiet this year and will need to step up against a solid Purdue rushing attack. 
Derek Landri has eight tackles, three for a loss, from his nose tackle spot. 
The line was able to hold Washington to only 41 yards last week and will need a similar performance . 
Taking the rushing game away from the Boilermakers could eliminate the crowd from the game and force new quarterback Kirsch to throw. 
PURDUE 
RUSHING OFFENSE 
The best defense for the Boilermakers will be a rushing offense that controls the clock. 
Keeping the ball on the ground will excite the expected sellout crowd and keep Brady Quinn and Jeff Samardzija from outscoring the tough Boilermakers. 
Jerod Void, above, and Kory Sheets will split time at running back and keep each other fresh, giving Purdue a chance to wear down the Irish line. 
Kirsch has good speed and will cause problems if the Irish let him get outside the pocket. 

Did you work for The Observer? 
The Observer will be celebrating its 40th Anniversary with a reunion during the weekend of the Blue ft: Gold Game this spring. We would love for you to attend. 
Please contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu for more information. 
.--------------~.--­
---------., 
Friday, Septemher 30, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER pagt 7 
Landri, Laws combine to shut down runs 
thn hall against us. and that's men don't·even rush," Laws
Interior Iinenzen are 
why thny pass the ball morn." said. "We'll just spy tho quartnr­AJ'tnr four games. Landri has back."
strong point of new 
night taeklns, l.aws has four and Purdue will presnnt a multi­
Irish defensive line backup tackle Brian Beidatsch l'aentnd rushing attack in has six. With opponm1ts throw­Saturday evening's game, with ing tlw ball often. though, the thn Boilermakers avoraging 210 
Hy PAT LEONARD 
Irish Iinn mon have found a rush yards per game. Behind 
Sports Writl'r 
majority of the plays occurring mobile quartnrback Brandon bnhind tlwm. Kirsch, thn team now runs thn Opporwnts can't run the ball But whnn tnams try to go back option out of the shotgun on against Notrn Damn. to tho run, they do not l'ind occasion, depending on how 
For as long as nose tackle much success. Kirsch reads the del'nnse. Dnrnk l.andri has lined up Pittsburgh, Michigan. And the Boilermakers' top wnaring bluo and gold. that Miehigan Statn and Washington two rushers -Jerod Void and much has bonn true. managed an average of 104.8 Kory Sheets -average over 6.0 
In his junior snason in 2004-rush yards per yards per carry. the sncond year l.andri saw game against the This makes action -thn Irish gave up only Irish thus far. Notre Dame's S8.2 rush yards per game. T h o u g h "You hear them challengn dill'erent l.andri combirwd with former Washington talk about the from previous dnfnnsivn tackln Greg Pauly that exploited the years games
Landri/Laws
snason to makn 77 tackles, 12 Notrn Dame sec­against Purdue,
combo, and I like when a more one­
1/2 taekles for loss, and IHl ondary with an air madn almost half of his own attack, when the that. I think teams dimensional pass­wrap-ups ( 19 of' 40) solo. Huskies did run ing threat made
know they won't be 
Four games into the 2005 sea­the ball, the result shutting down the
able to run the ball 
son. the final stats in the oppo­was a mnasly 41 run early more 
nents' rushing column haven't yards on 22 car­against us. " final and suffi­changed much, and Landri ries. cient. knows part of' tlw reason. In addition to "When a team is
Trevor Laws 
"I had groat chemistry with keying in on basically a throw-Irish defensive lineman ing team first, if
Iformer Irish defensive tackle teams' top tail­Greg! Pauly," he said, "and I backs and full­you can go in think me and l.aws just picked backs, the Irish there and make up whern that lel't ofT." rush defense also has done a sure that they don't run the ball 
Trevor l.aws, a 6-f'oot-1, 293-quiet but efTieient job of keeping on you, at least you'll have a pound junior. and Landri (6-mobile quarterbacks from hurt­fighting chance because you can foot-3, 263) are not the leading ing them with their legs. play a mentality where they are taekl1~rs on Notre Dame's Prior to playing Michigan just going to throw it on every dnfnnsn. Thnir numbers are not State, Landri, Laws and the down," Weis said at his Tuesday called ol'tnn. But the two interi­linemen heard enough about al'ternoon press confnrence. or dnfensivn linnmnn apply Drnw Stanton's mobility. "Now, you no longer can per­prnssun~ in tho middle of the Stanton finished with 48 yards ceive their ofl'ense as one linld that, so far. has knpl oppo­rushing on 14 carries, just a dimensional." nnnts' running throats-be it 3.4-yard avorago. Evnn though Purdun no longer tailback or mobile quartnrbaek Prior to facing Washington. has a one-dimensional offense, -111 hay. tho media talknd up Iluskies that donsn't mnan Landri and 
"You lu•ar thPlll talk about thn quartnrback Isaiah Stanback's Laws cannot. make it so. l.andrill.aws combo. and I likn rushing prowess -snven car­that," l.aws said. "I think tnams ries, night yards. Contact Pat Leonard at know tlwy won't bn abln to run "On somo plays, the D-linn-pleonard@nd.edu 
Purdue's Kirsch is a multi-faceted threat 
ynt talented, Isaiah Stanback in starts in place of then-injured four touchdowns to go along rat quarterbacking talent,Hy MATT PUGLISI subsnquent weeks. and current Chicago Bears quar­with three interceptions -Notre Purdue's tendency to usc a 
A.sociate Sports F.Jiror 
With migning Heisman trophy terback Kyle Orton, Kirsch pro­Dame recognizns his passing sta­spread-out, open passing game winning quarterback Matt vided a glimpse of' Purdue's tistics thus far don't tell the -a trademark of Tiller's oll'nnsn 
There is no shortage of' talent Leinart coming to town Oct. 15, future at quarterback. I Ie threw whole story. -provides an effective foil to at the quarterback position in to say the Notre Dame defense for 711 yards and seven touch­"He's a talented guy, lhe] can the new, option-based running eollnge football these days. The will eontinue to have its hands downs. throw it, run it, they run a little attack. Irish defensn can attest. full would be an understatement. The senior has picked up right of everything," Irish cornerback "Purdue is onn of several 
Aftnr battling gritty, versatile I Iownver, before thn Irish can where one-time Ileisman hope­Ambrose Wooden said. "We're teams in college football that Tyler Palko in thn season opener worry about subduing the pro­ful Orton left off' this season, definitely going to have our sprnad the field, they make you at Pittsburgh, Notre Damn was jncted No. 1 pick in the NFL draft leading the Boilermakers to 115 hands full." play in space," defensivn ba(:ks forced to challenge rising star in a couple of' weeks, Purdue's points in the team's first three Kirsch's ability to captain a coach Bill Lnwis said. "And I Michigan quarterback Chad Brandon Kirsch stands in Notre games. multi-faceted offense that cou­think that any timn that hap­ll<~nne. Michigan State's multi­Dame's way. While his individual numbers ples a strong, wide-open passing pens, and you have the level of dinwnsional thrnat Drew Stanton Appearing in six total games don't scream all-star -Kirsch attack with a unique option talent that they have at the quar­and Washington's inexperienced, last season, including a pair of has thrown for 638 yards and offense makes him particularly terback, that puts as much strain 
dangerous, a skill which defen­on the dnfnnsn as possibln." sive coordinator Rick Minter Though he's yet to lind the end attributes to Purdue head coach zone, receiver Dorion Bryant is Joe Tiller's creativity on oll'ense. Kirsch's most dangerous option, 
"I Kirsch is I a typical Purdue leading thn team with 18 catdws quarterback, a good quarter­for 247 yards back," Minter said. "You know Hneniver Kyle Ingraham (night he's going to be well-schooled, eatdws, 133 yards) and tight nnd well-coached and fundamentally Charles Davis (nine catches, I:~0 sound. I've always had great yards) round out Purdun's top respect for Purdue and Jon throe rneeiving eorn targnts. !Tiller]. and the job they've Aftnr criticism concerning its done." "bend but not break" style of 
For Mintor, the continued sue­defense last week against cess of the Boilermakers ofl'ense Washington, the Irish secondary doesn't come as much of a sur­knows that while Purdue's multi­prise. dimnnsional attack may not bn 
"They're always going to give ideal for righting the pass you everything you can handle, defense ship, it's nevertheless from personnnl to style," Minter another chance to improve on said. "It's a systnm that has been the prnvious wnek. in place a long limo. They've "You just havo to comn out and tweaked it a liWn bit coming into play," Woodnn said. "Evnry wonk the new year, but all in all, it's is a nnw opportunity to redeem hard to beat the success they've yourself. Wn've got a big task in cncountnred in West Lafaynttn front of us." over tho past eight or ni1w years 


since Joe's bonn there." Contact Matt Puglisi at Combined with Kirsch's natu-mpuglisi@nd.edu 
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 30, 2005 

Are vou readv for some football:»:»:» Whether its college, pro, or fantasv, we are THE PLACE for vou!!! 
Join us Saturday to watch lhe IRISH beat up on lhe Boilers!! Catch all of lhe ronowlnu games here Ibis weekend: 
Saturday 
l. Texas at Missouri·--n:oo 
2. 
Va. Tech at W. Va-u:oo 

3. 
Indiana at Wisc.-11:00 'l. Michigan at Mich. St.-H:oo 


5. 
illinois at Iowa-u:oo 

6. 
Virginia at Maryland-n:oo 

7. 
Mississippi at Tenn-11:30 

8. 
LSU at Miss. St.-1:30 

9. 
Syracuse at Fla. St.-2:30 

10. 
Minnesota at Penn St.-2:30 

11. 
USC at Arizona St.-2:30 

12. 
ND at PU---6:45 


Buffalo Wild Wings is the perfect place to escape for that much needed study break. We have the best wings in town, with 12 signature sauces to choose from, as well as great burgers, sandwiches, wraps and much more. Join us Tuesdays for 35 cent wings, Wednesdays for 50 cent legs, and Thursdays for 50 cent boneless wings and 89 cent tenders!! For those 21 and over, check out our daily bar specials, including $2.25 pints of Lite on football Sundays, and $3 tall Coors Lt. on Mondays!! 
Sunday 
1. 
Bufl'alo at New Orleans-12:00 

2. 
Denver at Jacksonville-12:00 

3. 
Detroit at Tampa Bay-12:00 

4. 
Houston at Cincinnati-12:00 

5. 
Indianapolis at Tennessee-12:00 

6. 
San Diego at New England-12:00 

7. 
Seattle at Washington-12:00 

8. 
St. Louis at 1\"Y Giants-12:00 

9. 
NY Jets at Baltimore--a:os 

10. 
Dallas at Oakland-a:15 

11. 
Minnesota at At.lanta-3:15 

12. 
Philadelphia at Kansas City-:ns 

13. 
San Fran at Arizona-7:3() 


6 Big Screens, 32 total TV's, 14 satellite receivers, and both Football packages makes Buffalo Wild Wings South Bend's Football Headquarters!!! Don't just catch your fantasy football players on the 
stat page, watch them all here live! 
We are located in downtown South Bend, a block west of the NCAA football Hall of Fame at 123 W. Washington St. We will be having a raffle and auction at half time of the ND game to raise $$ for the Hurricane relief fund. 
~-------·---------·-----------------r---------------·-----L-------------------·--------------------··-----..-------~ 1 Buffalo Wild Winge South i Buffalo Wild Winge South ! Buffalo Wild Winge South I i Bend ! Bend ! Bend l 5 free wings ·with the I 113 pound burger,reg. buffalo j Free regular buffalo chips or I1 I purchase of 12 at regular l chips and 20 oz. drink--$5.99 ! potato wedges with the lI price. (excludes boneless) I (not valid\~/ any other special) ! purchase of 12 wings at II expires 10/31/05 j Expires 10131105 j regular price. Exp.l0/31/05 l ! ! i f !______!_~_ W._~-~~~!![!Q~--?..~~:~~?._ ____j_______l£?__Yf.:....Y!..~~hlE_g!;_qQ_~~~-~?-~-~-,---L----~~..Y{~_'!la~hi!!i:l!'?.~-23_~:~~------j 

The Departtnent ciflrL<>h Language and Literature presents U"'HY FR.ISH?-a one-day international colloquiun'l explo1·ing the contributions of' h·ish language and literature to scholarship and the academy. 
Friday., Septentber 30 Hesburgh Auditorium 
.: 
9:00-l 0:45 Session I Dean Marl< Roche-Official Welcome Minister Eamon 6 Cuiv, T.D. (Governn"lent of Ireland)-An Ghaeilge -larsma Staire n.6 Teanga Oibre? /The Irish Language -·-A Historic Relic or a TVorking Language? Professor James McCloskey (UC Santa Cruz) -Irish as a H"orld language ll:15-1:15 Session II 
Professor Philip O'Leary (Boston College)-Teanga gan Teorainn-The JVovels ofA!an Tilley Professor Clare Carroll (CUNY)-Irish Literature, Irish llistory and Comparative Studies 2:30-4:30 ptn Session III 
Pr-ofessor Tonuis 6 Cathasaigh (Harvard)-Saga and l'v1yth in Irish Language Literature Professor Calvert '\Vatkins (UCLA)-What Makes the Study of Irish Worthwhile? ProCessor Breandan 6 .Buachalla (Notre Dame)-Closing Remarks 
Reception sponsored by Consulate General of Ireland. Rt. Hon. Mr. Charles Sheehan 






