
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND experts offer praise for Alito 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 
In the wakn ol' l'rnsidont Bush's nomination of appnals court judge Sarntwl Alito to rn pI a en 11m h a ttl n d White lfousn counsnl llarrint Minrs as his •:audi­


datn for Suprornn Court, Notrn Damn lngal and political nxpnrts praisnd tho nnw norni­nnn's qualili­
•: a ti on s and Allto tempnra­ment, saying Alito will almost cnrtainly be approved to tho high eourt. 
Notre Dame law professors John Naglo and Richard Garnett have argund cases before Alito, who was nomi­nated Oct. 31 by Bush to fill tho soat vacated by Justice Sandra Day O'Connor and will face confirmation hear­ings starting Jan. 9. 
"Aiito is trernnndously well­qualil'ied," Nagle said. "It's hard to imaginn anyone with more qualifications. Alito has had more nxperionco serving as a federal judge than per­haps anyone in history bnl'ore serving on the Supreme Court." 
Alito received high grades at Princoton University and Yaln Law School, whnrn ho snrvnd as editor of the Yale Law Journal. He then clerked for a Federal Court of' Appoals judge, a common step taken by talented young lawyers, Garnett said. 
Alito went on to work as a Federal Court of Appoals before his 40th birthday. 
federal  prosecutor in  the  
Departmnnt of .I ustiec.  
lie  was  appointed  to  the  

"It is worth noting that he was unanimously confirmed by both Hepublieans and Democrats," Garnett said. 
While Garnett and Nagle have studind Alito's rulings, some or their knowledge of tho nominee comes from per­sonal experience. 
Garnett argued a church­state ease before Alito in the Philadelphia Court of Appeals in 1988. 
"[Alitol was very gracious and encouraging," he said. "I was a young lawyer, and he was very patient." 
Nagle first encountered Alito while representing the 
U.S. Postal Service in a sclVer­eign immunity dispute with the state of Pennsylvania. 
"lie's just a wonderful guy, brilliant and tremendously well respected," Nagle said. 
Alito's demeanor only increases his potential as a Supreme Court justice, Nagle said. 
"He is well-grounded and thoughtful, which is prc1eisely the correct temperament you'd want in a judge, and exactly what you'd want in a Suprnme Court justice," he said. 
The methodical manner in which Alito takes on cases has also drawn attention from experts. 
"llis approach is very care­ful, technical, not at all llam­boyant," Garnett said. "lie's not shooting from the hip in his opinions." 
see AUTO/page 4 

National journalists tackle n1edia explosion 

Chicago Tribune public editor Don Wycliff, left, and Poynter Institute director of publishing Bill Mitchell take part In Monday's discussion. 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Group passes dance restrictions 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
Members of the Campus Life Council poundnd through a list of to-dos at Monday's mooting, resulting in the approval of' a res­olution meant to damp down on themes, dress codes and advertis­ing liJr dorm danens. 
The msolution roquirns that all dance thmnes bn rnspnetful to the entire community and that thn hall rector and Student Activities Of'f'iee approve posters and T­shirl'> lilr danens. 
It also suggesl<; that studenL'i bn surveyed before their dorm's 
see CLC Ipage 6 


U.S. culture cultivates negative body itnage 
By LISA SCHULTZ 
News Writer 
The solution to ending Arnnrica's obsession with thinness is a ehangn in eultural attitudes, Dr. .Joan Kilbourne said Monday in her talk to Notrn Dame stu­dnnts addressing the eiToets of advertising's portrayals of women. 
Kilbourne, a world-renownml spnaker and author of tho rneent book "Can't Buy My l.ovo: llow Advnrtising Changns the Way We Think and Feel," kicked oil' stu­dent government's Eating Disorders Awareness Week by spmlking to an audience of' about 200 in DeBartolo Hall. 
Kilbourne said advertising was one aspect of a toxic health envi­ronmcmt. 
"Advertisements are quick, cumulative, and, for the most part, unconscious," Kilbourne said. "What they are selling us is imago." 
Kilbourne said tho average Amorican is exposed to :~.000 advertisemnnts daily, and her presentation utiliznd many imagns to illustrate hnr point. 
The erowd of mostly women gasped when Kilbourne revealed that Julia Hoberl<;' face had been 
see EATING/page 4 By KATCE STUHLDREHER 
News Writer 
Thn Advisory Committee of Notre Dame's Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy discussed the uncertain future of journalism with students, faculty and visi­tors Monday as they addressed the question, "What will it take for journalism to survive the information revolution?" 
The seven members of the committee, all Notre Dame graduates who currently hold prominent and diverse posi­tions in the American media, drew upon their various expe­riences in the linld to explain the increasing adaptations thn industry must make to survive in a world whieh is becoming more dependent upon the Internet and corporate owner­ship. 
Professor Bob Schmuhl, director of the Gallivan Program, posed the central question that weighed on the minds of many young journal­ists at the beginning of the dis­cussion -with the rise of' Internet media outlets, blogs and downsizing of print and broadcast staffs, will there even be jobs in traditional journalism in the future? 
Although several panelists expressed frustrations with recent changes in how news is gathered and distributed, the majority of the speakers pro­jected an optimistic view of the future ofjournalism. 
Tom Bettag, senior executive producer of ABC News "Nightline," responded that although bloggers and Internet sources have encroached upon traditional journalists' 
see GALLIVANIpage 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Police say football arrests up 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Sainr Mary's Editor 
Citing a latn kickoff time Saturday, police said they wrote a high number of' alco­1101-relatcd citations and made sevnral arrests before and during the Tennnsson football game. 
Patrolling the parking lots prior to thn start of' the game, Notre Dame Sceurity/Policn (NDSP), South Bend Policn, St. Joseph County Police and Indiana State Exeise Police made five custodial arrests and issued 26 eitations, including one to a juvenile, NDSP Assistant Director Phil Johnson said Monday. 
"Of those 26 [citations(. some were for minors con­suming alcohol, minors in possession of alcohol, false idnntif'ieation and inducing a 
minor to  consume  alcohol,"  
Johnson said.  
The five  arrests  were  for  

public intoxication, and orw of those individuals was also found to havo a controlled subst<rnce in his possession, Johnson said. lie dnelined to speei!'y how many of those cited or arrestnd in the park­ing lots wnre studnnts. 
The numbers arn compara­ble to those during the USC game on Oct. 15, when police made six arrests and wrote 23 citations. 
"These arc typical of a game that bngins at 2:30p.m. where people have a higher blood-alcohol eontent," Johnson said. 
Tailgates begin at roughly the samo time f'or each horne game, Johnson said, and a late kickoff results in addi­
see ARRESTS/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 8, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Dubya and the unborn 

There were a lot of little crosses on South Quad this weekend. 
This happens periodically. As I'm sure we're all quite aware, the crosses repre­sent the abortions performed in the U.S. In years past, they have been a protest Matthew from a vocal minor­Smedberg ity to the evil majority in govern­ment. Today, 
Associate 

though, it's time. 
Photo Editor

Time to acknowl­edge the obvious. 
There is, finally, no evil majority hold­ing good people and their good old-fash­ioned values down. There hasn't been for years. The party with the anti-abor­tion plank has controlled both houses on Congress for how long now? 
Wake up, conservatives. You're getting snowed here. George Bush doesn't care about unborn people. 
Think about it. How many chances has the Republican leadership had to ban abortion, either piecemeal or wholesale? How many pork-barrel proj­ects have they waved through without so much as a by-your-leave to the American people? How many bills establishing immediately obscure holi­days, how many bills filling the coffers of campaign contributors? And yet, how many anti-abortion bills have passed the House? The Senate? 
How many have even been proposed? 

I'm not asking you to believe me based on my unblemished conservative track record. (I haven't had one of those for years now.) Nor am I merely Bush-bash­ing, as much fun as that can be. No, all I want is for you to look at the evidence. 
Abortion is one of those conservative issues that I have great sympathy for, along with fiscal responsibility and pro­tection of personal freedoms. I won't support every spending cut, but I like the idea. Similarly, I am not convinced that abortion is evil (I'm an atheist, after all), but I like the idea of protecting the defenseless. 
Abortion, politically, is a smokescreen. It's a carrot being dangled in front of the moral values constituency-and the danglers are the most amoral people in America, men and women who have devoted their lives to the exploitation of their fellow man. You've seen them rip off the poor people of the Third World for factory and agricultural labor, seen them poison our waterways and level whole mountains in their reckless aban­don for wealth. Now it's your turn. You are the exploitees, the ones being lied to· to your faces. 
You and I, we probably disagree on a lot of things. But here, our interests coincide: it's time for these con artists to leave office. My colleagues in the pro­gressive movement are aghast at the thought that abortion may be recrimi­nalized, but I say that if that's the knight I have to sacrifice to take the queen of social justice and a foreseeable end to poverty, it's a fair trade. 
Today is election day. There aren't any interesting races, and the news flashes tonight won't be about hanging chads or Diebold. But symbolically, today, let's take stock of who our political friends­or rather enemies -really are. 
Contact Matthew Smedberg at msmedber@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mis­take, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error.. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WILL YOU CHANGE YOUR SPRING BREAK PLANS ARER RECENT PIRATE ATTACKS? 






Christina Hedges and 
Carolyn Torres Brian Kelley Suzanne DeBerry Josh Creamer Sade Murphy 
Christine Dube 
graduate student graduate student graduate student junior freshman
seniors 
off-campus ofj:campus off-campus Keough Pangborn
off-campus 
"Yes, I will "There are no ''I'm a law "Not if they look "I wasn't
"No, because we 
definitely be pirates at the student. I don't 
are going to 
going on a North Pole. " have spring
Tybee Island 
cruise now. " break plans." and not getting arrested this year. 

ERIC SALES/The Observer A Notre Dame Landscaping Services worker removes a bottle Monday that was duct taped to the Sorin statue during the weekend. 
OFFBEAT 
Cheerleaders arrested after sex in bar restroom 
TAMPA, Fla. -Two Carolina Panthers cheerlead­ers were charged after their arrest at a bar where wit­nesses told police the women had sex in a restroom. 
Renee Thomas, 20, of Pittsboro, N.C., and Angela Keathley, 26, of Belmont, N.C., were taken to Hillsborough County Jail early Sunday. 
Witnesses said the women were having sex in a stall with each other, angering patrons waiting in line to get into the restroom at the club in the Channelside district. 
Thomas was charged with battery Sunday after alleged­ly striking a bar patron when 
TODAY a::: 
she was leaving the rest­room, then landed in even more trouble after police said she gave officers a driver's license belonging to another Panthers cheerleader who was not in Tampa. 
Thomas, who made the trip to Florida for Sunday's game between the Panthers and Tampa Bay Buecaneers, was released from jail on $500 bail before police learned she was not the per­son she claimed to be. 
Ship blasted pirates with sonic weapon 
MIAMI -The crew of a luxury cruise ship used a sonic weapon that blasts ear­splitting noise in a directed beam while being attacked by a gang of pirates off Africa this weekend, the cruise line said Monday. 
The Seabourn Spirit had a Long Range Acoustic Device, or LRAD, installed as a part of its defense systems, said Bruce Good, a spokesman for Miami-based Seabourn Cruise Line. The Spirit was about 100 miles off Somalia when pirates fired rocket­propelled grenades and maehine guns as they tried to get onboard. 
The subsidiary of Carnival Corp. was investigating whether the weapon was successful in warding oft' the pirates, he said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
LLI 
::z:: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
...I 
c:r: 
(,) 

..... 0 HIGH 65 HIGH 60 HIGH 72 HIGH 50 LOW 60 LOW 58 LOW 43 LOW 32 
like Johnny planning on 
Depp. , being on a ship 
anyway. Now 
I'll be more 
cautious. , 
IN BRIEF 

Senior vice president for Global Compliance Kathryn Reimann will give a lecture enti­tled "Ethics and Complaince in a Large Public Company" at 7 
p.m. 
today in the Jordan Auditorium. 

Michael McConnell of the American Friends Service Committee will speak at 7:30 

p.m. 
Wednesday at the Center for Social Concerns about his experiences with war and the draft. 


Andre Connors, senior cura­tor of the National Hispanic Cultural Center in Albuquerque, N.M., will give a lecture titled "Graphic Text: The Enduring Power of a Well-Designed Message" at 7 p.m. Wednesday in the Annenberg Auditorium in the Suite Museum. 
The Saint Mary's Spanish Club is hosting a salsa night from 8 p.m. to 10 Wednesday in the Saint Mary's Student Center. Music, dancing and games included. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team faces the University of Saint Louis at 7 p.m. Wednesday in the Joyce Center. 
The film "2001: A Space Odyssey" will be shown at 10 
p.m. Thursday in Browning Cinema as part of the Physics and Film Series. Tickets are $6 general public, $5 faculty/staff, $4 seniors and $3 all students. To purchase tickets, call 574­631-2 800 or visit http :1/per­formingarts.nd.edu to purchase tickets. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRJDAY SATURDAY 


~ 

Atlanta 80 I 61 Boston 59 I 44 Chicago 66 I 48 Denver 65 I 38 Houston 84 I 69 Los Angeles 65 I 57 Minneapolis 63 I 44 New York 64 I 49 Philadelphia 66 I 46 Phoenix 86 I 62 Seattle 48 I 39 St. Louis 79 I 60 Tampa 85 I 68 Washington 72 I 49 
Tuesday, November 8, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Adtnissions rules face scrutiny 

page 3 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Nevv 'Shirt' president says tea111vvork is key 
a sounding board to bounce By KAREN LANGLEY 
ideas orr and allow nw lo 
News Wrirer 

foeus on higher-level. more important issues that the 
Following discussions of president should be focusing "The Shirt" project's goals and on," Fox said. methods at recent Council of Fox was introduced by the Hepresentatives (COB) meet­2005 president of "The Shirt" ings, the new "The Shirt" Project, Katie Fox (no rela­president, lOch Fox, was tion). introduced at Monday's meet­"lie has lots or enthusiasm ing. for the project and great nnw 
Fox described his intentions ideas," Katie Fox said. "I am 
to create a "Shirt" committee confident Hich will continue to deal with the project's the success of the project." design, marketing and unveil­Katie Fox explained the two­
ing ceremony. part process of selecting "The 
"My past experiences have Shirt" project's nnw president. shown that everything works "Applications were available well when you have a strong online and advertised in The team and committee around Observer," she said. "Hich was you," Fox said. one of the first-round finalists 
The proposed committee selected ... We had a final 
would include Fox, two design round of interviews and then coordinators, two marketing asked Rich if he would accept coordinators, two unveiling the position, given approval." coordinators and a Web The interviewing panel was designer. made up of Katie Fox, 
The design coordinators Director of Student Activities would deal with issues relat­Brian Coughlin, "The Shirt" ing to "The Shirt" itself, while project advisor Hyan the marketing coordinators Willerton, Financial 
would promote "The Shirt" Management Board president both to students and the rest Michael Marshall and COH of the Notre Dame community, representative James Leito. Fox said. The unveiling coor­Hich Fox was approved dinators would arrange pro­without opposition. gramming for the April unveiling of 'The Shirt" at the Bookstore. Contact Karen Langley at 
"The committee will provide klangle 1 @nd.edu 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 
Thn qLwstion of how to attract morn applicants to Saint Mary's -a rm~urring concern for the Collngn -sparkml discussion at Monday's Board of Governance (BO<Il mnnting. 
Admissions Commissioner Annin Davis spoke to and sought fnndback from the Board about potnntial changes in the Colh~ge's admissions polides. 
Davis n~portnd that the Board of Admissions had suggested, but has not approved, two initiatives aimnd to increase thn number of applkanl'i and exeitn prospective studnnl'> about Saint Mary's. 
Thn first objective would be to calculate a student's cumulative ACT seore through the combina­tion of her best performance on each of the four sections of the tnst, rather than through assess­ment of the best mean score, Davis said. This is an effort to increase the student's average seorn, which would allow her to receive a larger scholarship. 
During the admissions process, thn Colleg1~ dons not include reli­gion coursns taken by a student when factoring an alternative gradn point average (GPA) based solely on her academic courses, such IL'i math and English, Davis said. The Board of Admissions ha'i proposnd to now include reli­gion courses as a part of this GPA. But this change would not impact a student who has not taken any such course. 
Davis said these efforts would be used as promotional tools to alleviate concerns voiced by par­ents who wondered why their daughter's religion courses were not fa<:tored into the revised GPA 
Some BOG members were reluctant to support the proposed changes, saying these policies would prove unappealing to stu­dents who attended public school. 
"I don't think it is fair," BOG Chief of Staff Monica Lindblom said. "Admissions are being judged in two different ways." 
Junior Class President Heidi Goeppinger disagreed with Iindblom. 
"This is not meant to be a spiri­tuality thing," she said. "Religion is an academic course and [stu­dents) should get credit for it." 
Student body president Kellye Mitros also agreed with the Board of Admissions' recommen­dations. 
"I remember thinking to myself, why would I waste eight hours )of courses] that mean nothing when I go to college?" Mitros said. 
Davis said that she would take the Board's ideas back to Admissions for further evaluation of the proposed policy changes. 
In other BOG news: 
+ An increased anticipation for Saint Mary's Heritage Week, scheduled for the second week of January, was apparent as Mitros reported on the progress of the event's planning. 
"We are hoping to make this a whole week of spirit," Mitros said. "It will be an event filled week that celebrates our pride and heritage." 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
THE BosTON CoNSULTING GRouP 

BCG invites you to our Information Session and Case Interview Workshop  
Wednesday, November 9th, 2005 6:00pm to 8:00pm CCE, McKenna Hall: Auditorium  
All m~jors encouraged to attend. Undergraduate and Master Students, non-MBA  
BCG www.bcg.com  

~-------------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 8, 2005 


Arrests 
continued from page 1 
tiona! alcohol consumption. 
Although there were no reported incidents of marsh­mallow throwing, 23 people -12 students and 11 non­students -were ejected from the stadium for reasons relat­ed to alcohol. One of those students was transported to St. Joseph Hospital, Johnson said. 
There were also two arrests made in the stadium, neither of them students, Johnson said. He said one was for public intoxication and the other was for public indecen­cy. 
"[The person arrested for 

Alito 
continued from page 1 
This care for precedent and the law causes Alito to refrain from exhibiting a political ide­ology, Nagle said, noting that more liberal judges agree with the lack of political pref­erence shown by Alito's rul­ings. 
"You don't get the impres­sion that he has an agenda he's trying to use his position to promote," he said. "He would really bristle at any suggestion that he did [have a political ideology.]" 
Garnett said Alito's record has shown him to be a conser­vative judge, but hardly an extremist. 

public indecency] was urinat­ing on some golf carts outside the public safety office," Johnson said. 
A University employee reported being pushed as she left LaFortune during the game at approximately 3:30 p.m., Johnson said. 
"The person attempted to take her purse," Johnson said. "The subject was described as a male, white, white T-shirt, black pants, long dark hair and stubbly beard. And this person was not hurt and nothing was taken from her." 
The man fled and was not apprehended, Johnson said. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
''I'd put him with [new Chief Justice John] Roberts, a judi­cial conservative but well within the mainstream of judi­cial thinking," Garnett said. 
It is possible to get a sense of how Alito approaches cases from his long record of judi­cial work, Garnett said. 
"He shows judicial mod­esty," Garnett said. "You get a sense in the church-state opinions that he takes reli­gious freedom seriously." 
Alito's record will protect him from some of the criti­cisms that plagued Miers' nomination, Garnett said. 
"I think the point of contrast ... is he has this long record of judicial experience and a long record of dealing with consti­tutional questions that Ms. Miers did not have," Garnett 

Eating 
continued from page 1 
transplanted on a body double for the "Pretty Woman" poster. 
This fact helped prove one of Kilbourne's points -no woman can become what she sees in advertisements. 
"Failure is inevitable," Kilbourne said. 
She listed stereotypical fea­tures of a supermodel, and her audience laughed when she said, "Indeed, she has no pores." 
Kilbourne said a recent trend in advertising is making women feel shame about eating, in addi­tion to the typical guilt trip that comes out of the confusion of being simultaneously "virginal and experienced." 
"The menage a trois we're 
said, explaining that Alito's history is indicative of how he approaches legal questions. 
Alito has had much more judicial experience than either Roberts or O'Connor did before their appointments, political science professor Donald Kommers said. 
Kommers called Alito's career on the federal bench "broader and more illustri­ous" than Roberts', but said O'Connor had greater political experience before her appointment to the Supreme Court. 
"Does prior political experi­ence at the state or federal level add anything to the qual­ifications of a Supreme Court nominee?" he said. "l expect it does it if helps a justice to temper law's abstractions now made to feel ashamed of is with Ben and Jerry," she said. 
Another visible trend is the segmentation of women's bodies, where advertisements depict only one part of a woman's body, Kilbourne said. 
"This creates a climate in which women are seen as things, objects," she said. 
When women are objectified, Kilbourne said, abuse becomes more socially acceptable. "The most dangerous thing to do is mix sex and violence," she said. 
Student Senate Gender Issues committee chair Ali Wishon, the head coordinator behind the Eating Disorders Awareness Week events, said she hoped the lecture would "get the discussion started." 
Wishon said she left Notre Dame for three semesters to deal with her own eating disorder, 
with political realism." 

Alito's views on federalism are similar to those of Roberts and the late former Chief Justice William Rehnquist, Garnett said. 
"Justice Alito would believe there are limits on federal power," he said. 
There was no dispute among Nagle, Garnett and Kommers about Alito's chances for con­firmation, as all three predict­ed that he would soon be a Supreme Court justice. 
"Alito will be approved, but only after unfair and aggres­sive questioning by the Senate Judiciary Committee," Kommers said. "In my judg­ment, the Senate should not permit interest groups to tes­tify on nominees." 
These interest groups 
and she said when she returned to campus she realized it is an environment in which eating dis­orders aren't talked about. 
"Notre Dame is quite possibly the most difficult place to strug­gle with an eating disorder," Wishon said. 
Other events for the week -­themed "Shaping Perfection"­include a lecture at 7 p.m. Wednesday entitled "Facing the Freshman (or Sophomore, Junior, or Senior) 15: Strategies to Assess the Causes and Reverse the Problem" in South Dining Hall's Oak Room, as well as a discussion at 8 p.m. Thursday entitled "360 Degrees: Perspectives on Eating Disorders" in North Dining Hall's Room F. 
Contact Lisa Schultz at lschultz@nd.edu 

threaten senators' independ­ence in selecting judges and push senators to make judicial candidates commit to posi­tions on constitutional issues that interfere with their own independence, Kommers said. 
Though Garnett is certain Alito will be approved, he too voiced concern about the role of interest groups in the con­firmation process. 
"There could be a messy fight because interest groups on both sides will use the fight as a way to make money through overheated rhetoric," he said. "There may be more 'no' votes than Chief Justice Hoberts had, but [Alito] will still be confirmed." 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 

Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture's Catholic Culture Series Presents ... 
VALOR, FELLOWSHIP, AND SA .c R I FI C E · 



CATHOLIC M~:TH 

11 ).R.R. Tolkien: A Catholic Writer for  Our  Uncatholic Age 11  
Professor  Ralph  Wood  
University Professor of Theology and Literature Tuesday, October 25 7:30pm 138 DeBartolo Hall  at  Baylor University  

Also Coming ... 
Tuesday, November 1 Professor Joseph Pearce: 11 Tolkien: Truth and Myth 11 
Professor of Literature at Ave Maria University 
Tuesday, November 8, 2005 Professor Mary Keys: 11 Tolkien•s Literary Politics of Friendship and Humility 11 
Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame 
Tuesday, November 15, 2005 Mr. Greg Wright: 11 Missing the Spirit: The Scourging of the Shire, Tolkien•s Catholicism, and Peter Jackson•s Return of the King 11 
Writer in Residence at Puget Sound Christian College 


For more information go to ethicscenter.nd.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November 8, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
President Fujimori arrested in Chile 
SANTIAGO -Fornwr Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori was arrested Monday on charges involving corruption and massacres at home as lw tried to return to Peru to run J'or re-election af'ter l'ivn years in exile in .Japan. 
Fujimori. target of an international arrest warrant. now faens extradition from Chile to Peru. 
Sonw IJPiinvn he simply miscalculated. Others think he is eonfidnnt ChilH's SuprHme Court will rejnct his nxtradition and release him, as it has for other Latin Amerieans who have sought political rnfuge. 
French youth identify with rioters 
I.E BLANC MESNII.-Shouting over each other to be heard. the young toughs vented about their lives in Paris' tough suburban projeets and the rioting that has set them ablaze and grown into a nation­wide insurrection of disgruntled youth. 
All Freneh-horn children of Arab and black African immigrants, this group of a dozen or so teens at Les Tilleuls housing project north of Paris eomplain of being marginaliznd by French soeiety. 
None said they participalf1d in arson attacks, but their sympathies are dearly with the rioters who have shaken France to its eore, prompting the government to say Monday that it will impose curfews under a state-of-emergency law. 
Prime Minister de Villepin also said France would call up 1,500 police reservists to reinforce the 8,000 police and gendarmes already on guard against the rioting that has spread from plaees like l.es Tilleuls to nearly 300 cities. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Pentagon charges detained suspects 
WASIIlNGTON -The Pentagon said Monday that it had charged five terror sus­pects detainfld at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, with oiTenses, and that they would face trial by a military tribunal. 
That brings to nine the number of Guantanamo Ray detainees who have been charged with criminal offenses. There are about 500 detainees there, many captured in Afghanistan more than three years ago. 
The five suspncts charged arn citizens of Saudi Arabia, Algeria, Ethiopia and Canada. 
The Canadian is charged with conspiracy to commit murder and aiding the enemy. The four others are charged with conspiracy to commit several oiTenses: attacking civilians, murder, destruction of property, and aiding the enemy. 

Public transportation resumes in PA 
PHILADELPIIIA -Subways, trolleys and buses started rolling again for the first time in a week Monday after city transit workers agreed to end a strike that forced more than 400,000 daily riders to find some other way to get around. 
After an all-night bargaining session, the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority reached a tentative agreement on a nnw contract with 5,300 union employees. The main issue was how much they would have to contribute to health care. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Tornado death toll climbs to 22 
I~VANSVILLI~ -Crews found the body of another apparnnt victim from a wnekend tor­nado that levnled a mobile home park as they turrwd their attention Monday to searching a large retm1tion pond where it was feared more hodins could be linmd. 
The discovery raisNl to 22 the death toll from tlw tornado, which struck at 2 a.m. Sunday as people slept. making it the deadliest in Indiana in more than three decades. Vandnrhurgh County Sheriff Brad Ellsworth rnleasml no ddails about tlw latest vietim. 


Elderly therapists convicted 
Nursing home owners forced mentally ill residents to work naked; videotaped sex acts 
Associated Press  
WICHITA, Kan.­The  
married owners of a group  
home for the mentally ill  
were convieted Monday of  
enslaving its resident<;, fore­ 
ing them to work naked and  
perlorm sex acts, and illegal­ 
ly billing their families and  
the federal government for  
therapy.  
Arlan Kaufman, 69, and  
his wife, Linda, 62, were  
convicted of 30 federal  
charges, including health  
care fraud, Mf)dicare fraud,  
forced labor and holding  
clients in involuntary servi­ 
tude at the Kaufman House  
Hesidential Treatment  
Center. Arlen Kaufman was  
also found guilty of making a  
false representation.  
The convictions could put  
the two in prison for the rest  
of their lives.  
The couple showed little  
emotion but briefly hugged  
and kissed before being led  
from the courtroom to jail.  
The jury is to return Tuesday  
to hear arguments on the  
prosecution's request the  
couple forfeit $289,727.  
Federal prosecutors eon­ 
tended the Kaufmans con­ 
trolled the lives of the men­ 
tally ill residents, including  
forcing them to work on  
their farm and deciding who  
APcould wear clothes.  
The couple was accused of U.S. Attorney Eric Melgren, right, Is flanked by Kansas Attorney General Phlll Kline  
forcing residents to mastur­as he faces reporters In Wichita, Kan. Monday.  
bate, fondle each other and  
shave each other's genitals  Prosecutors called it abuse  movie."  one videotaped session, she  
-activities Arlan Kaufman  and said it spanned more  The defense had portrayed  was reading a newspaper  
videotaped.  than 20 years while the cou­ them as respected profes­ and didn't even look at the  
The Kaufmans claimed  ple billed Medicare more  sionals who had raised thrne  nude resident.  
that nude therapy sessions and other treatment meth­ods had therapeutic value for  than $216,000. The Kaufmans incorporated their unlicensed treatment center  children of their own. "It was therapy. No one was harmed. They were  The Kaufmans face up to 20 years in prison fiJr eaeh of the conspiracy, forced labor  
schizophrenic patients, and  in 1980 and ran it until their  helped," Arlan Kaufman's  and involuntary servitude  
that having resident<> act out problem behavior helped  arrest<> in October 2004. Justice Department lawyer  attorney, Tom Haney, told jurors.  charges; up to 1 0 years for each health care fraud  
them avoid repeating it.  Kristy Parker told jurors the  Linda Kaufman's attorney,  charges; and up to livn ynars  
Arlan Kaufman insisted at  residents were turned into  Steve Joseph, argued prose­ for each of the otl11~r charges.  
trial that the residents'  "uncompensated actors in a  cutors had no solid evidence  No senteneing date has bmm  
behavior was voluntary.  never-ending pornographic  against her. He noted that in  set.  

AUSTRALIA 

Police foil attack, arrest 16 suspects 
Associated Press 

SYDNEY -Police in Australia arrested 16 terror suspects, includ­ing a prominent radical Muslim cleric, in a string of raids early Tuesday and said they had foiled a major terror attack. 
The Australian Federal Police said eight men were arrested in Sydney and nine in Melbourne in the coor­dinated raids that also netted evi­dence including weapons, comput­ers, backpacks and apparent bomb­making materials. 
"I was satisfied that this state was under an imminent threat of poten­tially a catastrophic terrorist act," said New South Wales Police Minister Carl Scully. 
Australia's Sky News reported that a man who had bmm under surveil­lance was shot and wounded by polico in the raids, which followed a 16-month investigation. 
An AP photographer saw a bomb squad robot examining a backpack the man was wearing. 
Rob Stary, a Melbourne lawyer who said he represented eight peo­ple arrested there, said most of his clients were charged with being members of a banned organization. 
Police declined to give details of the likely target of the attack, but Victoria state police chief Christine Nixon said that next year's Commonwealth Games, to be staged in Melbourne, were not a target. 
"It's the largest operation of coun­terterrorism that's ever been con­ducted in this country," Nixon told the Australian Broadcasting Corp. 
Stary said one of those arrested in Melbourne was the outspoken radi­cal Muslim cleric Abu Bakr, an Algerian-Australian who has said he would be violating his faith if he warned his students not to join the jihad, or holy war, in Iraq. 
In an August interview with the ABC, Abu Bakr also said that although he is against the killing of innocents, he could also not dis­courage his students from traveling to Afghanistan or Pakistan to train in terrorist camps. 
Abu Bakr told the ABC he is not involved with any terror cells in Australia. However, he said he sup­ports ai-Qaida's aims and praised the group's leader. 
"Osama bin Laden, he is a great man," Abu Bakr said. "Osama was a great man before 11 September. They said he did it and until now nobody knows who did it." 
ABC reported that Abu Bakr had been under investigation by the Australian Security Intelligence Organization, which accusns him of supporting Australian Muslims who partidpatn in insurgnneins ovnrsnas. 
Australia has never been hit by a major torror attack, but its dtiznns havn repeatndly bnnn targ1~tnd over­seas, particularly in Indonesia. 
Tuesday, November 8, 2005

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Gallivan 
continued from page 1 
domains over the past several years, established journalistic institutions still perform valu­able roles in society that cannot be replaced. 
"People simply do not have the time to experience all these things for themselves," Bettag said. "They need editors to wean this stuff down into what they need to know as a citizen. Even more important, there is a seri­ous credibility problem with Internet sources. If someone established like Tom Brokaw says something, you can proba­bly believe it." 
Anne Thompson, chief finan­cial correspondent for NBC News, echoed Bettag's senti­ments. 
"It's not only an issue of credi­bility, but bloggers also do not have the same resources that journalists like us have," Thompson. "They don't neces­sarily have money for travel expenses, research assistants, well-connected sources and other things like that needed to produce quality news." 
Bill Mitchell, director of pub­lishing and online editor at the Poynter Institute for Media Studies, highlighted the immi­nent changes occurring in the journalism world as a result of the information revolution, regardless of traditional journal­ism's resilience in some aspects of news distribution. 
"We no longer play the 'gate­keeper' role that we once did," Mitchell said. "Back in my par­ents' day, journalists could decide what was and was not newsworthy, but now there are no fences on either side of the gate, so things are rushing in all around us." 
In addition to problems with changing roles ofjournalists and their ability to control the flow of information to the public, other panelists drew attention to the mere survival of traditional journalists. 
Monica Yant Kinney, metro columnist for The Philadel-phia Inquirer, expressed frustration over the uncertainty of her job due to constant fluctuations in corporate ownership and cited such issues as indicative of broader problems in the media industry. 
"Knight-Ridder owns us, and they decided that a 19 percent profit margin was not enough, so for the fifth time in five years, we are now re-imagining who we are and what we should cover," Yant Kinney said. "We need local voices and credible figures to survive because no one can do our jobs like we can." 
John McMeel, chairman of Andrews McMeel Universal, said although struggles with corpo­rate ownership can be difficult, the information revolution should not be viewed as a com­pletely negative phenomenon. 
The expansion of online con­sumers of news allows tradition­al publications and networks to now utilize multiple vehicles for disseminating their content, McMeel said. For example, a news anchor can write for the network Web site and respond to questions from viewers online. 
Kelley Tuthill, anchor for WCVB-TV in Boston, also dis­cussed the possibility for addi­tional opportunities in journal­ism sparked by the online news expansion. 
''I'm very hopeful about these changes because now we will have time to produce stories for a Web site or something like that which includes information that we just couldn't fit into that minute and thirty seconds on camera," Tuthill said. 
Thompson added that new media outlets allow news organ­izations to have a more perva­sive impact upon an increasingly preoccupied public. 
"Now, you can get online and watch a complete broadcast of NBC Nightly News with Brian Williams on our Web site, so that people who &till want to know what's going on but are not able to take time out of their day at 6:30 at night like my par­ents' generation could, can still see this product that we all worked hard on," Thompson said. 
An audience member raised the concern, however, that mi.Il­tiple responsibilities could lead to insufficient time to produce stories. 
In response, Thompson likened the increasing responsi­bility of producing news for sev­eral outlets to a mother with three children. 
"You aren't a worse mother when you have more children," Thompson said. "You just man­age your time and work through it." 
Don Wycliff, public editor of The Chicago Tribune, returned to the previously-discussed cred­ibility issue. 
"With all these new sources of news, it becomes more and more difficult to determine the veracity of news available to the public," Wycliff said. "Yet, I think the answers lie with the students in this room .and young consumers of news. You will fmd a new approach because you grew up in a different age and will know how to get consumers to give us what we want -their time." 
Mitchell outlined three specific groups he thought would demand such a new approach to distributing news -consumers who consistently pay money for quality news, working journal­ists who believe in their craft as a public service and advertisers who want their ads to run in respectable and widely-circulat­ed publications. 
Contact Katie Stuhldreher kstuhldr@nd.edu 

Thinking About Your Summer? Thinking About Doing Service? 
Wqnt to Cut Your Tuition? 

If you're Then Come & Hear About a thinking to Great Opportunity: yourself... 
Yes 
Yes 




Yes Summer Service Learning Programs 
NovemberS 
F;h!UNIVERSITYOF ~~~"'O;;.....;.;.R 6:00-7:00 PM ~NOTRE DAME 
SOCIAL 
Alumni Association 
CONCERNS 


esc Clqssroom 
CLC 

continued from page 1 
dance to see what themes would be desirable for the specific time period. 
The proposal was the brain­child of the Social Concerns task force, which has been investigat­ing the nature of hall dances for the last several months. 
Recognizing that some past dances have "represented poor judgment and a lack of consider­ation and respect by the dance organizers," the 
group decided to 'The resolution is make provisions 
pretty
to the current 

straightforward.
manual, Social Concerns task The dance manual 
force chair never talks about 
Jacques Nguyen 

appropriateness for 
said. 

"With hall dance themes. " dances already underway, our 
Jacques Nguyen 
task force 

social concerns task
thought we 
force chair 
should look into 

this and see if there were things that could cause us problems and the rriain thing was themes," Nguyen said. "The res­olution is hopefully pretty straightforward. The dance manual never talks about appro­priateness for dance themes." 
The resolution was passed unanimously. It will be sent to Vice President of Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman next, although student body president Dave Baron said that Assistant Director of Student Activities Peggy Hnatusko will also receive a copy since she will be respon­sible for making the adjustment to the dance manual. 
In other CLC news: 
+ Hall Presidents Council co-chair Dan Zenker told mem­bers the empty seats in the stu­dent section of the pep rally were the result of last-minute changes made by Joyce Center officials and members of the Student Activities Office. 
"Student Activities, along with Joyce Center officials, met last 
week to imple­ment a new tick­eting system for fans," he said. "They also creat­ed a 6,000-seat limit for student fans. I would have said don't reserve that many seats for students, because all the seats were not filled." 
Zenker said he doubts the re­maining two pep rallies will attract 
6,000 student fans. 
''I'm going to meet with Student Activities to iron these things out," Zenker said. "There was a miscommunication last week. They're trying to do dif­ferent things to get fans into the Joyce Center in the most effec­tive way." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 


Ursula Williams 
You're thought of Today and Every Day. 
Love and Miss You, Your Friends 

NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick fleece coat is perfect 


for winter. Askanyyak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 
~ 


OUTPOST Hours: 
Mon.-Fri.: 10:oo om -9:00pm

~ 
Sat: 1o:oo om -B:oo pm

Cold Weather Experts 
Sun.: 12:oo pm-6:oopm 



THE 0HSERVER 







USINESS

Tuesday, November 8, 2005 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

10,586.23 +55.47 
jones .·, 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volum 1,815 177 ~1 1,987,585,180 
AMEX 1,684.06 ~0.63 
NASDAQ 2,178.24 +8.81 

NYSE f519.42 +11.86 
S&PSOO I ,222.81 +2.67 

NIKKEI(Tol<yo) (4,061.60_ 11.00 
FTSE IOO(London) 5,460.80 +37.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -0.26 -0.0 I 3.8~ 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) + 1.31 +0.35 27.01 
NASDAQ II 0 TR (QQQQ) +0.12 +0.05 40.1 ~ 
INTEL CP (INTC) +2.13 +0.5 I 24.5( 
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -0.11 -0.02 17.8~ 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.49 -0.24 48.28 
I0-YEAR NOTE -0.39 -0.18 46.39 
5-YEARNOTE -0.15 -0.07 45.48 
3-MONTH BILL -0.98 -0.38 38.27 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.11 59.47 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.50 460.40 
PORK BEWES (cents/lb.) +2.38 91.18 
Exchan Rates 
YEN 117.685C 

EURO 

0.8472 
POUND 0.5734 

CANADIAN$ 1.1872 

IN BRIEF 
Unions join to fight Delphi wage cuts 
DETHOJT-Six unions that represent work­ers at Delphi Corp. said Monday they are banding together to fight proposed wage and benefit cuts at the auto supplier, a sign Delphi may face a strike as it pushes in bankruptcy court for concessions. 
The unions represent 33,650 active Delphi workers. The United Auto Workers union rep­resents the vast majority of those workers, at 24,000. Other unions in the group are the International Union of Electrical Workers­Communications Workers of America, the United Steelworkers, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers and the International Union of Operating Engineers. 
"Delphi's contract proposals to our unions, together with CEO Steve Miller's public state­ments, dearly reveal senior management's contempt and disdain for the hard-working people who have played a vital role in making Delphi the world's leading automotive parts manufacturer," the unions said in a joint statement. 
Guidant sues Johnson & Johnson 
NEW YOHK -Medical device maker Guidant Corp. sued Johnson & Johnson on Monday in an attempt to force it to com­plete a $25.4 billion acquisition of Guidant, which has been roiled by a series of recalls. 
Analysts and lawyers said the suit signals the two sides have failed to renegotiate the acquisition which had been slated to close last week and that the deal will likely dis­solve. Shares of Indianapolis-based Guidant tumbled nearly 5 percent in early trading Monday, before recovering slightly. J&J sharns rose. 
Meanwhile, Guidant's problems mounted as it reported sharply lower third-quarter earnings on Monday and disclosed it was under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Moody's Investors Service ehanged the direction of Guidant's rating roview to possible downgrade from direction uncertain because the transaction didn't occur as planned. 
CHINA 


Product piracycontinues to grow 
U.S. Customs seized $88 million in fake shipments in 2004; figure expected to increase 
Associated Press 
SHANGHAI -Illegal copying of music,, movies and other goods by Chinese product pirates is rising despite ollicial promises to stamp it out, U.S. officials said Monday, calling for stronger enforcement of intellectual property laws. 
Almost two-thirds of all seizures of fake products by 
U.S. Customs ollicials come from China, far more than any other country, and despite stronger laws and top-level pledges to crack down the problem has been getting worse, the officials said. 
"The bad news is that the amount of seizures of pirat­ed products is increasing," said Jon Dudas, under sec­retary of Commerce for Intellectual Property. "The percentage is growing. Also the dollar figure is rising," he said. 
Shipments from China accounted for 63 percent of all seizures last year, or trade worth $87.3 million, according to U.S. Customs statistics. That compared with 66 percent in 2003, or $62.5 million, 49 percent in 2002 and 46 percent in 2001. 
The country with the next largest amount of seizures in 2004 was Russia, with only 5 percent. 

In a formal request made China in 2004, followed by Louis M. Reigel, III, assis­U.S. and Chinese authori­through the Geneva-based handbags and other acces­tant director for the Federal ties arc stepping up coopor­World Trade Organization, sories and clothing. Bureau of Investigation's ation in combatting such the United States has asked Even small businesses Cyber Division. crimes. Beijing to outline what its with no ties to China are About 40 percent of the In one prominent case doing to fight piracy, in finding cases of counterfeit, 500 commercial piracy resulting from a joint oper­what could be a precursor usually substandard ver­cases now under FBI inves­ation, a Shanghai court to economic sanctions if sions of their products sur­tigation involve China, he sentenced two U.S. citizens Washington uses the infor­facing in other markets, said. Those cases span a to up to 2 112 years in mation in a trade case such as in South America, wide range of industries, prison in April, along with against China. Dudas noted. including apparel, music, two Chinese co-defendents, 
The issue has taken on U.S. officials attending an movies, games, software for running an internation­greater urgency with the anti-piracy conference and even drugs. al counterfeit DVD ring. trade deficit with China, praised Chinese efforts to "Most critical are phar­One of the men, Handolph having hit a record $162 confront the problem, but maceutical goods imported Hobson Guthrie Ill was billion last year, running 30 said not enough was being into the U.S. and sold to the deported to the United percent above the 2004 done to protect legitimate most vuhi.erable in our soci­States where is remains pace. businesses or consumers. ety," Reigel said. "Theft in under house arrest before a 
Cigarettes accounted for The fastest growing prob­the trade sectors and intel­Jan. 3 trial on multiple almost half of the total lem is in the area of lectual property arc emerg­charges of copyright value of seizures from Internet-based crime, said ing as global threats." infringement. 


Agency: Wal-Mart knew ofillegality 
Associated Press contradicted by the newly released doc­immigrants from eastern Europe and 
uments. elsewhere. 

SPHINGFIELD -A pair of senior The affidavit was filed by the Bureau The lawyer who asked that the affi­
Wal-Mart executives knew cleaning of Immigration and Customs davit be unsealed said it shows Wal­
contractors were hiring illegal immi­Enforcement to secure search warrants Mart knew it had illegal janitors in il'i 
grants, many of whom were housed in for a 2003 raid on Wal-Mart Stores Inc. stores. 
crowded conditions and sometimes headquarters in Bentonville, Ark. "The sworn testimony lin the affi­
slept in the backs of stores, according The document was unsealed Nov. 2 davit) establishes that top Wai-Mart 
to a federal agency's affidavit. by a U.S. district judge in Fayetteville, executives conspired with contractors 
The affidavit, unsealed last week, Ark. at the request of a New York attor­to exploit undoeumented immigranlo;," 
was part of an investigation of Wal­ney representing more than 200 for­said James L. Linsey, a New York attor­
Mart by federal immigration officials mer employees in a civil lawsuit against ney leading a class-action lawsuit on 
that led to the 2003 raid on 60 Wal­the world's largest retailer. behalf of limner janitors. 
Mart stores in 21 states, and the arrests In the affidavit. investigators said tes­Wai-Mart denind there was any 
of 245 illegal workers. The retailer timony and tapnd conversations from im~riminating evidence in the allidavit 
agreod to pay $11 million in Mareh to 2003 showed two executives at Wal­and said the comments by executives 
settle the case. It has maintained that Mart headquarters knew that contrac­that it contained worn "bil'i and pieces 
top executives neither knew of nor tors and subcontractors cleaning its of information from larger conversa­
encouraged the practice, but that is stores in several states employed illegal tions." 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, November 8, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Abolish the IRS 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVF.RTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.J@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.J@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, dally newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Maty's 

College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available tO all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiifC!dire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ohsc::rvcr (USPS '59•J 2-4000) i~ published Munday throllgh Ptiday ~~pt durinE: cum ilnd va..:ati()n perio<h. A~ullliCription t.o The Ob~r i5 $100 fur N1t ilt;ad<:mk year; $'51 for onclemcsto.:r 
The QbJ;Crver is puhli~hed at: POSTW.STER 024 South Dining Hall St!nd addL'I:S5 correcri()ll.'i ro: Nlltrc Dilme, IN 46SS6·0779 The Observer Pcriod1e.al p<~t paid .u Notte Dame P.O. 'Box779 J.nd .ldditiow.l mailing ofti..:e'l 024 ~uth Dinmg Hall 
Nom: Dame. IN 4fi'556..Q779 
The Oh~:>Crver is .1 mcmhcr l)fthe Anoaarcd Press. All n:production righfS are rc.c:rvcd. 
Since 1954, the size of the United States' tax code has increased by almost 500 percent. Tax regulations created by the Internal Revenue Service have increased in volume by 939 percent, and in April 2006, Americans will spend a combined total of 6.5 billion hours, at an esti­mated cost of close to $500 billion, in order to simply pay for the privilege of footing Washington's bill. 
It is time for the FairTax. 
Perhaps you have heard of the FairTax by now. It is a comprehen­sive plan for the dissolution of the IRS that would replace all income taxes with an embedded personal consumption tax. According to the website of Americans for Fair Taxation (www.fairtax.org), the FairTax would abolish "personal, estate, gift, capital gains, alternative minimum, Social Security, Medicare, self-employment and corporate taxes." In their stead would be a 23 percent national sales tax on all con­sumption goods: a simple, one-time tax that is collected at the retail level. 
However, the FairTax is unlike the current sales taxes that exist in this country. These taxes are imposed on top of embedded income tax and compliance costs. In the FairTax Book, written by libertarian radio personality Neal Boortz and Congressman John Linder, a loaf of bread is used as an example to illus­trate these hidden costs. For every loaf of bread, the seed producers pass tax costs onto consumers. The shipping company does too. In fact, processors, bakeries, distributors and grocery stores all pass a portion of their income tax burdens onto consumers, no matter how rich or 

Scott 
Wagner 
Live and Let Live or Die 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

poor they are. Eliminating these costs initially, by eliminating the income tax altogether, would reduce the market price of all products by an average of 22 percent. 
Don't take my word for it, though. Take the word of the Harvard Economics Department. 
So when these costs are abolished, the FairTax is added and returns the prices of consumption goods to-you guessed it -exactly where they are today. The difference is, of course, that people who are purchas­ing these things keep every last penny of their paychecks. For low­income families, this would mean an immediate average increase in pay of 25-30 percent. 
If you are trying to think of ways in which to oppose this plan, I need to know one thing: why? 
The federal government would still steal -I mean, collect -the same amount of tax revenue as it does today under the FairTax. The FairTax does not cut funding from any cherished socialist programs like welfare or Social Security. It is mere­ly a new way for the federal govern­ment to pay for its existence. 
But wait, it gets better. The FairTax Act of 2005 (yes, it has already been written and is ready to be passed) also contains mechanisms for a "pre­bate." Based on government figures, the federal government would calcu­late the "annual consumption allowance" of a household-that is, the amount of money that household can be expected to spend on the necessities of life for that year -and refunds the money. Every household in America gets a tax refund, every year. 
In case you had not noticed, wealthy individuals tend to spend more money than poor individuals on consumption goods; thus, the wealthy would end up paying more in taxes than the poor. Most people seem to like this idea. 
Finally, the economic impact would be astounding. Driven by the "increasing burden of taxation and Social Security payments, combined with rising state regulatory activities and labor market restrictions," American businesses have been seek­ing out "tax havens" in other coun­tries with much friendlier tax struc­tures. The media buzzword for this phenomenon is "outsourcing," and believe it or not, our government has been causing it all along. 
Passing the FairTax Act would make the United States the "only nation in the world whose companies could sell into a global economy with no tax component in the price sys­tem." Companies would rush to bring jobs back to the United States, and their American workers would keep all of the money they earn. 
The FairTax is a typical libertarian solution to a greater social problem. Instead of promising more regula­tions, like many Republicrats typical­ly do, we reduce them. It is a novel concept, I know. The results would be revolutionary. 
The FairTax is not a panacea. It does not lower taxes, and it does nothing to curb the spending orgy the Republicrats have been having in Washington. It does not stop pork barrel spending, nor does it re-evalu­ate how federal money is spent. The responsibility for affecting change in those areas falls squarely on us, as voters. 
However, the FairTax would be an enormous stake in the heart of the monstrosity that is the IRS. The thought is enough to make any liber­tarian smile happily and sleep better at night. 
We need the FairTax now. 
Scott Wagner is the president of the College Libertarians Club. He writes political satire for the Web site The Enduring Vision and thinks you should go read it. He can be contact­ed at swagnerl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL

Maddie Hanna Bob Griffin Mary Kate Dan Murphy 
Malone Scene What do you think of Notre Marcela Berrios Mark Dame's disciplinary policies? Viewpoint Bemenderfer Becca Rosswurm Illustrator Graphics Robin Fallon 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
AlexaRae 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com
Antekeier 


SubmitaLetter 

.to the Editor at 
~ www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Ever!/. time you wake up and ask yourself: What good things am I going to do today?' remember that when the sun goes down at sunset, it will take a part of your life with it. " 
Indian proverb 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Tuesday, November 8, 2005 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Cab experiences frustrate 
I would likn to respond to your Nov. 4 article 
about cab companies. I am very frustratnd 
with the way Notre Damn students havo bonn trnated by local cab 
companies. In my cab-r·iding 
nxpnrinn1:ns, the prices quotod in tlw artidn worn incredibly low. I havo ridden with three cab companies on tlw list and havn never bePn charged less than 
$(, per head and as much as $1 :{per !wad. I also havn rwvnr rid­
don with a driver that 
Int. tlw meter run. I hate tim l"ad that bocausn I am a stu­dent. many drivers tak1~ advantagn ol" nw and au tornalically rn ark up tl11d r prices whnn I ridn with them. If tiro drivers wish to receive mon~ tips as II11Hl­l.ionnd in tlw article, tlwy should stop marking up their prires for studm1ts. I can guar­antee that I will nevnr lip a driver who has cheated me, because tho way I s1w it, I have already given him a tip wlwthor I wanted to or not. 
I am also concerned with the way drivers treat 
students. My first truly bad experience was with Michiana Taxi, the company mentioned in your artiele. The driver tried to per­
suade two more students to squeeze into a van with six students in it. When I protested because there weren't enough seatbelts for 
eight passengers, the driver responded that 90 percent of ND students don't care 
about seatbolts, espe­
cially when we're drunk. So I told him that he still couldn't 
have that many people in the cab because it endangers our safety. lie gave in and drove us home and dropped 
me oJT last. After I paid him, he condescending­ly told mn that I was lucky that he was a nice guy because any other eab 
driver would have kicked me out of the cab for giving him lip about the seatbelts like 
that. lie then called me a "biteh" and drove off. I went inside my apartment and ealled Miehiana Taxi's 
number. The dispatcher hung up on me a 
total of three times when I tried to tell him my story 
and told me that I needed to learn to talk respeet­
fully to others, and he also called mo a "bitch." 
My second bad experience was with Express Cab. I was eoming home from a bar with a group of friends when a guy friend protnstnd tlw high pric1~ the driver was charging us and attmnptod to nego­tiate a lower one. The driver imnwdiatoly slammed on the brakes and remained stopped in tho rniddln of tho road, insisting that tho guy get out ol" tho cah immediatoly. lin finally agrond t.o lot him stay in tho cab, but rnl'usnd to start driving again until wn all paid him the l"ull amount he dnmandnd in cash. 
What angers mo tho most about tlwse oxpnrinnc.ns is the fact that both drivers wen~ willing to sa1·.rificn their passengors' safnty in oxchangn for a bigg1~r profit. Tho Miehiana drivM dearly wantnd to makn more per lwad on the same trip, and the I•:xpross driver refus1~d to oven listen to a protnst ovnr his inl'lated priens. I have b11nn afraid to challnngo tho inflated priens, and these expnrinncos havn rein­forced that fear. It shows me that if l dare stand up for myself, I will be walking honw and subjec.ll~d to insults not only from the drivor, but. also ft·om t.lw cab company itsell'. 
If most ol' tho cab 1:ompanins' business during t.hn school year dons indeed consist of Notre Damn stu­dents, then porhaps they should start trnat.ing tlwit· major clientele with a littlo mon~ rnspoet. Until then, I'll be taking tho bus. 
Kristin West graduare studcnr 
Ofl~campus 
Nov. 7 

Racism still alive 
In rosponsn to Stephanie Yoshida's campus. The number of racist !Nov. 71 "Grouping is natural" letter remarks I have heard sinee arriving to the editor, I would agree that on eampus only a few months ago is Notre Dame is a self-segregated cam­staggering. pus. However, Yoshida and I have With this, my theory is revealed as sonw vnry different views on this to why there is self-segregation on issue which I would like to discuss. eampus. In an effort to plaee them­
I do not agnw with Yoshida's argu­selves in a eomfortable and fully nwnt that pf1ople from a particular aeeepting environment, ethnie ethnic group inhnrently have more minorities are almost forced to self­similar interests. Certainly, there are segregate into their own groups. cultural similarities in many eases I am not elaiming that Notre Dame among ethnic groups. is a completely raeist eampus, how­
llowever, from personal experience ever, complete racism is not neces­I would say that an Asian-American sary to cause discomfort for those from Minnesota normally has fewer who are targeted. Students form self­common internsts with an Asian­segregated groups because they Anwriean from California than he or know they will not be unfairly judged slw dons with another Minnesotan. just beeause of their race within So. thn idea that self-segregation at these groups. Notrn Dame occurs along racial lines I feel that the problem at Notre due to shared interests is undoubted­Dame is the raeist tendeneies that ly flawed. many students have without even 
With the idna that common inter­realizing it. So, the best solution is to ests load to self-segregation on cam­elosely examine our own thoughts pus boing ruled out, it becomes clear about race and to hopefully realize that tlwro is a different reason for that raee should not be an issue this plwnornnnon. The reason that I when interacting with or talking am about to suggest is more cynical about other people. than thn reasons presented by Yoshida. Jeff Tate 
Haeism in America is still alive and freshman among somn people quite strong. Fisher Hall This also applies to the Notre Dame Nov. 7 

A simple proposal 
The issue of self-segregation has been asked to sit with someone they don't played out in the pages of The Observer know-someone who may be dill'lmmt reeently -both of the authors or this let­from them -at the dining hall. It will ter are among those whose opinions have show us how much we have in common been published. We have a small propos­while aflirming how unique we all aro. al for this University, for whieh we seek Perhaps it sounds childish or naive. In the guidance and support of the entire the "Little Way" philosophy advocated by Notre Dame community. St. Therese of Lisieux, small and ehild­
Initially coming from different sides of like actions are very oftnn the most pow­the eurrent controversy, merely a small erful means for human fulfillment and for detail in the larger pieture or diversity bringing real change to people's hearL"i. here, we met over eoffee Wednesday This proposal has the power to do those evening as two students hoping to get very things. beyond the present petty diseussion to We often hear talk of a "Notre Dame aetually bring people of different baek­family,'' a phrase that rings hollow to grounds together-without being forced, many of us. Our proposal is simple without being denied that which makes enough to attract attention to change and them unique, without the exdusion of to take baby steps toward reshaping the those who aren't thought of as "minori­perception of the university. We encour­ties." age any and all Notre Damn depart­
In our discussion, we agreed that stu­ments, organizations, media and individ­dents don't exdude themselves from oth­uals reading this to approach us so that ers who are different out of hatred or we may begin the work of building a fear, but rather that they arc afraid to stronger and truer family horn. leave a comfort zone in which they can readily identify with others who share Will Seath their ethnidty, religion, dass or even 
SCI\IOf 

their residenee hall. Morisscy M.mor 
Our proposal is simple and idealistic -Nov. 3 and that's its strength. With the help of aeademie departments at Notre Dame; Ashley Williams our eampus cultural organizations and freshman student media, we want to publieize a McGlinn Hall day once a week when students are Nov. 3 
More uninfor111ed De111ocrat drivel 
I usml to lind it absolutnly amazing that in this coun­try, two peopln could digest the same set of facts and eomn away with two polarized opinions. AftN .Joey Fako's !Nov. 71 column titled "Beating (around the) Bush," I am completely unsurprised that another poor­ly resnarchnd, poorly argued opinion pieen came from anothnr "Bush-hater." 
Fako says that "Afriean-Amerieans disproportionate­ly constitutnd onn in nvery thrnn hurricane victims." In 2000, the Unitnd Statns census reports that of the 41-14,674 residents in New Orleans, 325,947 of them are Afriean-Amnrican. New Orleans has 20 square miles lwlow s11a levnl. Do thn math. 
Fako also talks about Scootnr Libby's indietmnnt in the C.I.A. leak. What should disgust everyone is not that some analyst was supposedly outed, but that the spncial prosncutor usnd this as a possibility to entrap administration offieials. Libby is not being charged with the original accusations, but instead with obstruc­tion ofjustice and perjury. As Falco's title indicates, this was never really about violating the Espionage Act, but about politieal revenge from the left for President George W. Bush "stealing" the election in 2000. 
Finally, Falco mentions that nominating a "conserva­tive ideologue" should distract the nation well into 2006. Judge Samual Alito's record on the First Amendment and abortion are reassuring and well­argued. In Planned Parenthood of Central New Jersey 
v. Farmer, Alito found that a Pennsylvania law banning partial birth abortion was unconstitutional in light of the recent Supreme Court ruling in Stenberg v. Carhart. In Police v. City of Newark, Alito decided that the police department could not foree Muslim police officers to shave their beards when the d1~partmnnt allowed other police oflicers to knep thnir beards l'or seeular reasons, not religious ones. Thesn dedsions are not the rants of a maniacal, consnrvative idnologun drunk with power but fair. well-reasorwd rulings which are consistent with the dmnoeratically decid1~d law. 
I've never been one for stnrootypes, believing instead that in order to make a fair assessmnnt, I nnnd time and .information. However, I think I can stereotype those who agren with Falco's eolurnn as uninformed and ehildish. 
Bob Polchow 
SCilJOf 
St. Edward's !!all Nov. 7 

THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, November 8, 2005 

I don't know how to say this, but ... 
It came to my attention the other day that I might not actually have any­thing to say. Really. This realization emerged out of the fact that a large portion of the things that I say are 
actually quotes from movies. 
Thinking of this terrified me for a moment -until I realized that I am in no way the sole victim of this phe­nomenon. 
Quoting movies is 


a part of our cul­Molly Griffin tural climate, par­ticularly as college students, but I Assistant began to wonder -Scene Editor why do we do it? And, more specifi­cally, why do some movies become choice mines for quotes while others don't? 
To clarify this discussion, there is a difference between classic movies that get quoted, such as "Casablanca," 
"Citizen Kane" and "Gone with the Wind," and more current movies. These films are like great literature and are a part of our cultural heritage rather than a source of amusing quotes. If you say, "Here's looking at you, kid," it is possible that you, your parents and your grandparents will have phrases in them that are applica­ble to everyday life. For all the money that the "The Lord of the Rings" trilo­gy or the "Harry Potter" series made, you rarely hear people quoting pithy retorts from hobbits or Hermione. While these are legitimately popular and well-made films, they often lack the witty one-liners that lodge in our brains. More importantly, they often lack the everyday applicability that other quotes provide. 

"Napoleon Dynamite" is a great example of how lines that can be used in everyday conversation become pop­ular. While it has a much smaller audience than other films, I can guar­antee you that if you say a breathy, "Gosh!," "Tina, eat the food!," or "If you vote for me, all of your wildest dreams will come true," there exists a large majority of people who will know exactly what you're talking about. Since the film is genuinely about everyday life, a rarity among comedies, it is a gold mine of quotes for inane daily situations, even if you don't live in rural Idaho. 
In quoting a film, it is implied not only that you've seen it enough to memorize it, but also that you somehow want to be associated with it. 
know what you're talking about, regardless of whether they have seen the movie. If you say, "We're going streaking!" (to quote "Old School,") it is more likely that you will get funny looks from those who haven't seen the film multiple times. 
The movies that become popular sources of quotes are usually juvenile comedies, but this doesn't necessarily speak to the decline of the modern col­lege student. It speaks more to a need to feel accepted and a need to find quotes that apply to our 
While these films are generally well known, there are certain cult films out there where quoting them is a true "in or out" proposition. "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" is a specific example. Either you love this film and know every "Your mother was a hamster and your father smelt of elderberries" 

and "Yes, shrubberies are my trade. I am a shrubber. My name is Roger the Shrubber. I arrange, design, and sell shrubberies," or you have absolutely no clue what is going on. With films like these, it is less a matter of how the quote applies to a given situation as it is letting people know that you are part of the cult. 
Movie quote identification can also occur along gender lines. While some movie buffs defy gender stereotypes, there are certain movies that divide 
strictly between boys and 

daily lives. girls. If you say to a girl,
Film quotes are
"Anchorman: The "Whoever said orange Legend of Ron more than just was the new pink was Burgundy" is currently a conversation filler. seriously disturbed," most favorite source for will know that you are
They are a means
choice phrases. In an referring to "Legally odd way, quotes from ofidentifying with Blonde." Say the same these films are a sort of others and relating thing to a guy and he secret code, and know­might think you're insult­
our lives to the
ing them makes you part ing his clothing choices. If of a secret society of always interesting you say "Come and say sorts. If you say, "I don't world offilm. hello to my little friend," 
know how to put this, but I'm kind of a big deal ... people know me... " you will either get blank stares (those who haven't seen the movie and think you're slightly pompous) or the person will volley back with, 'Tm very important. I have many leather-bound books and my apartment smells of rich mahogany," initiating a sudden and inexplicable bond between the two of you. 
It may not make perfect sense, but this phenomenon goes deeper than the fact that you have both seen the same movie. In quoting a film, it is implied not only that you have seen it enough to memorize it, but also that you somehow want to be associated with it. 
Frequently-quoted films also usually to a girl, she might think 

you are getting fresh instead of quoting "Scarface." It is, once again, a matter of audience and in what context you use the quote. 
Film quotes are more than just con­versation filler. They are a means of identifying with others and relating our lives to the always interesting world of film. The movies we choose reveal what we want others know about us, and "Great Odin's Raven!," it's also a just a great way to throw around some truly great one-liners that we could never write on our own. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgrifjin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Youssou N'Dour brE 
By GRACE MYERS 
Scene Writer 
In Sunday's performance, Youssou N'Dour showed the Notre Dame commu­nity why he is considered the "voice of Africa." 
The New York Times recently described tral sounds. N'Dour's powerful vocal per­formance was accompanied by Fathy Salama's Cairo Orchestra. Together, the music of "Egypt" portrays the unity of the Muslim world and the beauty found with­in the religion. 
The orchestra was incredibly talented, especially the percussion section. There were several individual instrumental 
his voice as "an arresting tenor, a supple weapon deployed with prophetic authority." N'Dour, having just returned from touring in Europe, performed selec­tions from his newest, Grammy Award-winning album, "Egypt." The music and concert was an explo­ration and celebration of N'Dour's Sufi (Muslim mysti­cal) culture. 
N'Dour is an internation­ally-renowned musician, composer, bandleader, vocalist and producer. He is highly esteemed for his musical intelligence and ability to cross the stylistic boundaries of culture and 
N'Dour fuses the different styles ofhis Senegalese homeland, including the traditional, modern and Sufi Muslim chants. He also incorporates many different sounds from all over the world, including other areas ofAfrica. Cuba, Western hip hop, jazz, soul and pop. 
solos, which demon­strated the various sounds of that particular instrument. The orches­tra also played chants by having only one instru­ment perform it, then adding on other instru­ments playing the same chant in a slightly differ­ent style. 
Salama desires to bridge the link between traditional and modern music from the Orient. He has worked towards this with his Cairo Orchestra, and has suc­ceeded through their collaboration with N'Dour on this album. 
time. Robert Christgau of the "Village N'Dour's performance portrayed the Voice," dean of American rock critics, beauty of Islam, something that most 
calls N'Dour "the one African moving inexorably toward the world-pop fusion everyone else merely theorizes about." 
Undeniably, he is an icon of world music. N'Dour fuses the different styles of his Senegalese homeland, including the traditional, modern and Sufi Muslim chants. He also incorpo­rates many different sounds from all over the world, including other areas of Africa, Cuba, Western hip hop, jazz, soul and pop. 
N'Dour's album "Egypt" has an unexpected defined focus. Instead of a global fusion of sounds, N'Dour deals only with Eastern 
N'Dour's performance portrayed-the beauty of Islam, something that most Westerners have never had the chance to witness outside of political and racial agendas. In this manner, N'Dour gave the Notre Dame community, along with the rest of the Western world, the gift of experiencing another part of the world and another religion. 
Westerners have never had the chance to wit­ness outside of political and racial agendas. In this manner, N'Dour gave the Notre Dame community, along with the rest of the Western world, the gift of expe­riencing another part of the world and another religion. 
The Grammy N'Dour received for this album suggests that it might be the forerunning work of the West's appreciation for the musical talents and diversity of the Muslim world. It was a celebra­tion of the diversity and unity of his faith. 
sounds, specifically Senegalese melodic N'Dour's music transcends the bound­and harmonic elements and Arab orches-aries of the Islamic world, uniting the his-

TIM SULLIVAN!The Observer 
A member of N'Dour's musical accompaniment recleved the spotlight Sunday as he played a tough segment. The music created an unforgettable evening. 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Tuesday, November 8, 2005 
page II 
aks musical barriers 

tory and prnsent of North and western Afriea, the main stations of Sufi thought. N'Dour lracns the "Senegalese way" of Islam through the Sufi movements in the heart of the Arab world to the different parts of thn country. 
'"l•:gypt' is an album which praises the lolnrancn of my religion, which has been badly misusnd by a certain ideology," N'I>our slated to the BBC and AI-.Jazeera in an interview. "At a time when there is a debate on Islam, the world needs to know how people are taking over this religion. Our religion has nothing to do with tlw violence, with terrorism," N'Dour's success with this album and pt~rformances is tribute not only to his musieal abilities but as an example of the world's desire to understand the Muslim world. 
N'Dour is an experienced performer. He was obviously comfortable on stage and more importantly, with the musie he was sharing. When he was not singing, he danced around, often coming right up to the edge of the stage, inviting the audi­ence to dance along. He would also joke around with members of the orchestra. 
It was a very personable performance, despite the less-familiar nature of the music. !lis voice was incredible, possess­ing a rare power and wide range. The music was incredibly powerful and mov­ing, an unforgettable experience. 
Contact Grace Myers at gmyersl@nd.edu 


DPAC PREVIEW 
Zitnertnan to perfortn at ND 

the roots of his pieces makes By ANALISE LIPARI Zimerman a unique musical per­Scene Writer former. 
True to his heritage, Zimerman 
Krystian Zimerman is the latest in also incorporates a Polish piece of a series of high-profile musicians to music into each American perform­be featured at the DeBartolo ance. Wednesday night's concert will Performing Arts Center. Hailing from follow suit, featuring several Polish Poland, this award-winning pianist folk dances called mazurkas. will perform several notable classical Zimerman's inclusion of Chopin, pieces at his upcoming concert arguably one of the best Polish com­Wednesday night, including works of posers, also contributes to his efforts Beethoven, Chopin and Ravel. to bring more Polish music to this 
Zimerman has studied the piano American audience. since the age of Zimerman is also seven, when he widely known for his
Krystian Zimerman
began training under collaborations with 
leading musicians at Location: Debartolo Center several respected a music conservatory for the Performing Arts modern conductors. in Katowice, Poland. Time: 7:30 p.m. Wednesday Working with men 
After graduating 14 such as Leonard years later, Bernstein, Seiji Zimerman went on to win several Ozawa and Stanislaw Skrowaczewski high-profile music competitions. As has given Zimnrman an unparalleled mentioned in a recent South Bend grasp of the more subtle nuances of Tribune article, his victory in the both conducting and porf'orming world-renowned Warsaw music. International Frederick Chopin Piano "Working frequently and closely Competition in 1975 helped jump­with an outstanding musical porson­start his lledgling career. ality, a mastor of' ordwstral sound, 
Sincn that time, Zimerman's tour­was a formative experimu:e for him," ing and performance Zirnnrman's biography schedule has expand­says of his collabora­
Working with men
ed dramatically, to all tions with Bernstnin. of Europe, America such as Leonard This typo of connection and Asia. Primarily, he Bernstein, Seiji with tho eonduetor's has performed and viewpoint lends a dis­
Ozawa and Stanislaw
recorded with the linet porspnctivP to
Skrowaczewski has 
Deutsche Zirnerman's perform­Grammophon label. given Zimerman an ances. Zimerman has also Heeently, Zimerman
unparalleled grasp of
expanded to teaching has been tlw recipient
the more subtle
at the Music Academy of several internation­in Basin, Switzerland nuances ofboth al awards for his p(~r­in recent years. formancos. His alma
conducting and
Often praised by m a t e r, t h e Ka to wi c(\
performing music. 
both critics and his Music Aeademy, has faithful audience, awarded him an Zimerman recently was the subject Honorary Doctorate of Arts, tho sec­of dedication of' Witold Lutoslawski's ond in tho institution's history. lin latest piano concerto. has also been of late the recipient of 
According to his official biography, Franco's "Ordre National do Ia Zimerman often makes a conscious Legion d'honneur," as well as effort to play particular pieces of Japan's 2004 Hecord Acadmny award music in their original environment. for his 2004 Haehmaninov recording To Zimerman, performing Mozart in with the Boston Symphony. Vienna or Bernstein in New York is a Zimerman's performance this particular priority. upcoming Wednesday night will 
"If I were an actor, I would also set servp, as a chance for tho Notre myself the aim of performing Dame and Saint Mary's communities Shakespeare in London and Chekhov to hoar a truo artist at work at his in Russia," Zimerman said in his craft. biography. While Wednesday's show will not feature any native Hoosier Contact Analise Lipari at music, this kind of appreciation for alipari@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 8, 2005 
NBA 


Okur's career-high leads Jazz to win in OT 
Wade's foul shots and defensive play in final seconds lift Miami over New Jersey 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.-Mehmet Okur seored seven of his career­high 31 points in overtime, and the Utah Jazz beat the Charlotte Bobcats 95-91 on Monday night. 
Andrei Kirilenko added 20 points and eight rebounds for the Jazz, who recovered after blowing a 14-point third-quarter lead. 
Primoz Brezec, Sean May and Jumaine Jones scored 13 points, and Emeka Okafor added 12 points and 11 rebounds for the Bobcats. who were trying to win three in a row for the first time in franchise history 
Okur hit back-to-back jumpers to put the Jazz ahead for good 92-89 late in tho overtime peri­od. lie was 11-of-17 and grabbed seven rebounds. 
The Bobcats, who rallied from a 12-point fourth-quarter deficit to beat Boston on Saturday, came back against the Jazz behind rookies May and Haymond Felton. 
May's 13-foot jumper with 
3:08 left cut the deficit to 81-80. On the next possession, Felton stole the ball from Utah rookie Deron Williams -in their first head-to-head matchup since last season's NCAA championship game -leading to Brevin Knight's jumper that gave Charlotte its first lead at 82-81 with 2:37 left. 
Tied at 85, the Jazz committed their 24th turnover, an over-and­back violation, to give the Bobcats the ball with 14 seconds left. But Knight missed a runner at the buzzer to send Charlotte to its third overtime in four games. 
It's only the third time in NBA history a team has opened the season with three OT games in its first four games, and the first since the Los Angeles Lakers in 1991. 
Charlotte leading scorer Gerald Wallace did not play in the second half after getting hit in the head on a drive to the bas­ket in the second quarter. Guard Kareem Rush was scoreless in 12 minutes as he continues to be bothered by a sore thumb. 
Bobcats coach Bernie Bickerstaff paired Knight and Felton in the backcourt for most of the final 17 minutes because of the injuries. 
Leading 44-43 early in the third quarter, the Jazz went on a 12-2 run. Kirilenko's shot in the paint made it 56-45 with 5:43 left. Utah twice built the lead to 14. 
Cleveland 105, Toronto 93 
TORONTO -LeBron James had 27 points to lead the Cleveland Cavaliers over the winless Toronto Raptors on Monday night. 
Larry llughes added 16 points for the Cavaliers, who salvaged the last game or their three­game road trip. 
Chris Bosh had 26 points and 12 rebounds for the Raptors, who are 0-4 for the first time in franchise history. 
Cleveland outrebounded Toronto 47-30. The Haptors have been outrebounded 104-65 in their last two games. 
Loren Woods, Toronto's start­ing center, didn't score and had four rebounds. Rafael Araujo, the eighth overall pick in the draft two years ago, had two points and one rebound. 

Miami 90, New Jersey 89 
MIAMI -Dwyane Wade made a free throw with 5.2 seconds left and blocked a potential game-winning layup at the buzzer to give the Miami Heat a win over the New Jersey Nets on Monday night. 
Wade, who had 23 points, drove on the Nets' Jason Kidd and was fouled. He made the second of two free throws before blocking Vince Carter's shot. 
The Nets pleaded for a foul, to no avail. Nets coach Lawrence Frank ran halfway across the court to complain about the non­call, as the Heat trotted ofT and celebrated their 1Oth straight win over New Jersey. 
"All ball," said Wade on his way to the locker room. Carter had a game-high 32 points. 
Antoine Walker had 18 points and Gary Payton added 13 for the Heat. Alonzo Mourning and Jason Williams added 11 points apiece for Miami, which again played without the injured Shaquille O'Neal and used a seven-man rotation in the game. Mourning also had 11 rebounds. 
New Jersey rallied from two double-digit deficits in the sec­ond half, yet never took the lead. 
Miami went up 80-70 on a 3­pointer by Williams with 9:13 left, but the Nets chipped away. Carter's 3-pointer with 1:25 left drew New Jersey to 89-87, and his jumper 34.9 seconds later got the Nets into their first tie since Richard Jefferson scored to make it 8-all 4:04 into the game. 

Payton missed a 3-pointer with 26 seconds left, but Mourning collected the rebound and gave Miami an extra possession. Wade hit his free throw 21 sec­onds later. 
Jefferson had 20 points and 15 rebounds for the Nets, and Jason Kidd added 11 points. 
A highlight-reel move by Wade-he leaped, spun nearly 360 degrees around the Nets' Jason Collins and blindly made a layup -put Miami up 59-48 early in the third. Yet the Heat went scoreless for the next 5:03, their lead trimmed to 59-58 when Jeff Mcinnis scored. 
But a 3-pointer by Williams and two baskets by Wade pushed the lead back to 66-60, and a smart play by Walker restored Miami's six-point edge entering the fourth. 

Minnesota 93, Los Angeles 78 
MINNEAPOLIS Kevin Garnett had 22 points, 11 rebounds and eight assists to lead the Minnesota Timberwolves past the Los Angeles Clippers on Monday night. 
Garnett, who was facing for­mer teammate Sam Cassell for the second time in three nights, made up for Saturday's loss. He had missed a jump shot in the lane in the closing seconds of overtime during the 100-99 defeat in Los Angeles. 
Elton Brand had 26 points and eight rebounds to overshadow Cassell (11 points on 3-for-10 shooting) in his return to Minnesota since the August trade that sent him to California for Marko Jaric. The Clippers became the last Western Conference team to lose after a 3-0 start. 
Michael. Olowokandi had 10 points for the Wolves against the team that made him the first overall pick in 1998.draft. 
Brand tied the game at 44 with a short jumper and then gave Los Angeles the lead for the first time on a free throw with 56 seconds left before the half. 
But Minnesota broke away in the third quarter, holding the Clippers to a season-low 12 points. 
Garnett fed Szczerbiak for two 

Mehmet Okur drives past Sean May for two of his 31 points to help the Jazz beat the Bobcats 96-91 in overtime. 
fast-break dunks, including a one-handed reverse that made it 61-55 midway through the peri­od. The Wolves carried that momentum into the fourth, starting with a unique lineup featuring Garnett, energy man Mark Madsen and three point guards -Jaric, Anthony Carter and Troy Hudson. 


San Antonio 104, Chicago 96 
CHICAGO -San Antonio coach Gregg Popovich wanted a timeout, but Tony Parker saw an opportunity he couldn't pass up. 
So he headed toward the bas­ket, broke the tie, and led the San Antonio Spurs to an over­time victory over the Bulls. 
Parker scored eight of his 22 in overtime, and Tim Duncan finished with 24 points and 16 rebounds. 
"Pop always tells me everytime he calls a timeout I've got the freedom to do that,"Parker said. "He said, 'Anytime you want to go all the way to the basket, just do it.' And tonight, it was just a great opportunity to make it happen, and it worked out for me." 

Parker was 6-of-14 from the field and 1 0-of-12 from the foul line and finished with nine assists as the Spurs rebounded from a 103-84 loss at Dallas on Saturday. 
Duncan also blocked six shots -giving him 1,505 rejections for his career. Nazr Mohammed added 15 points on 7-for-8 shooting, and Manu Ginobili was also in double digits with 14. 
Tied at 91 after regulation, San Antonio outscored Chicago 13-4 in overtime to secure the win. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 J.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED-Beachwalk resort-Rent this 3 bed-For rent: Two story house com· 2 bdrm,furn house, sleeps 5. ROOM HOMES room 2.5 bath home in Beachwalk pletely remodeled 2003. Ready for Week/weekend NOTICES MMMRENTALS.COM 532·1408 Resort Community located in immediate occupancy or next (2 day min.) 
PERSONAL 

House for rent. 3 BR, 1 BA, 2 Car Michigan City, IN. semester or next school year. New Carlisle area SPRING BREAKERS Book Early Gar. Clay Area. $700/mo. 574-21 0· Great for football weekends! Off street parking includes motion (574)514-1669. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? and Save Lowest Prices Hottest 8308. Close to shopping and riverboat sensor light for security. Do not go it alone. Destinations BOOK 15=2 FREE gambling $700/weekend. Four individually locked bedrooms, If you or someone you love needs 
TRIPS OR CASH FREE KRAMER PROPERTIES HOUSES Weekly rates also available. central station monitored security confidential support or assistance, MEALS/PARTIES BY 11/7 Highest FOR LEASE FOR THE 06/07 Email caldanaro@yahoo.com system, six blocks from Notre please call Commission Best Travel Perks SCHOOL YEAR. Dame, bus stop in front of house, WANTED: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800-CLOSE TO CAMPUS. GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH-surrounded by other student hous-NO FOOTBALL TIX. 1-7819. 426-7710 4 BEDROOMS, UP TO 10 BED· BORHOODS 06/07 & 07/08 ing, Laundromat next door, base-TOP$$ PAID. For more information, 
ROOMS. andersonNDrentals.com 574-233-ment available for storage of bicy-251-1570. see our bi-weekly ad in CALL 315-5032 9947 cles, luggage, trunks, etc.,new fur-THE OBSERVER. FoR RENT ASK FOR KRAMER. nace and central air, new kitchen FOR SALE: 
3-6 bdrm homes for 06/07. Also including new stove and refrigera-NO FOOTBALL TIX. Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apart-KRAMER PROPERTIES HAS 1 avail.now. 574-329-0308. tor, large living room for TV or 289-9280 5 Days ments available for 06-07 school SINGLE FAMILY HOME AVAIL-entertaining, free trash removal. OR VISIT OUR from $299! year. Call today 235-7234. ABLE. 140 N.SHORE BLVD. RENTAL FOR 2ND SEMESTER Call 289-4071. WEBSITE FOR $$: Includes Meals, 
3 BEDROOMS,1.5 BATHS. beautiful newly constructed 1 or 2 www.victorytickets.com MTV Celebrity Parties! Rooms in private home for rent dur-GREAT FOR bedroom Dublin Village Townhouse Furnished 1 bedroom condo (Ivy Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica ing NO football weekends or other PROFESSORS,STAFF, OR GRAD across from SMC.570-220-9296. Residential/Jamison) 11/21/05· BUYING & SELLING NO FOOT· From $499! ND-SMC events. STUDENTS. May,2006. BALL TIX. Campus Reps Needed! 
CALL 315-5032, 123 NO Ave. 3 bdrm,1.5 bath. Call Call Mary Anne Benedict 607·723-CHECK MY PRICES. PromoCode:31 www.springbreak-Call 243-0658. ASK FOR KRAMER. 574-229·0149. 7363 or 607-770-0944. 273-3911. travel.com 1·800-678-6386 
TICKETS 

AROUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, November 8, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NFL AFC East 
tPam record New England 4-4 BuHalo 3-5 Miami 3·5 N.Y. Jets 2·6  pnrc. .500 .375 .375 .250  PF 180 128 146 118  PA 220 159 151 170  
AFC North  
tnam reeord Cincinnati 1·2 Pittsburgh 6·2 Cleveland 3-5 Baltimore 2-6  perc . .778 .750 .375 .250  rr 210 189 114 97  PA 134 124 136 141  
AFC South  
team record Indianapolis 8-0 Jacksonville 5-3 Tennessee 2-7 Houston 1·7  perc. 1.000 .625 .222 .125  PF 229 150 175 107  PA 98 139 231 216  
AFC West  
tnarn record Denver 6-2 Kansas City 5·3 San Diego 5-4 Oakland 3·5  perc. .750 .625 .556 .375  PF 201 196 252 185  PA 152 183 192 185  
NFC East  
~~~lllll rocord N.Y. Giants 6·2 Dallas 5·3 Washington 5·3 Philadelphia 4·4  pnre . .750 .625 .625 .500  PF 233 181 152 173  PA 143 137 149 184  
NFC North  
team record Chicago 5·3 Detroit 3-5 Minnesota 3-5 Green Bay 1-7  perc. .625 .375 .375 .125  PF 139 131 130 168  PA 98 152 207 159  
NFC South team record perc. Atlanta 6·2 .750 Carolina 6·2 .750 Tampa Bay 5·3 .625 New Orleans 2-7 .222  PF 192 220 140 142  PA 143 163 121 242  
NFC West  
Seattle St. Louts Arizona San Francisco  record 6·2 4·4 2·6 2·6  perc. .750 .500 .250 .250  PF 214 208 146 117  PA 146 231 211 246  

Big East Women's Soccer 
Div. B Final 
team  record  
1  NOTRE DAME  10·1·0  
2  Villanova  6·1·3  
3  Louisville  6-5-0  
4  Rutgers  5-6-0  
5  Georgetown  4·6·1  
6  DePaul  3-5-3  
7  Seton Hall  3-6-2  
8  Cincinnati  1·8·2  

points 
30 21 18 15 13 12 11 5 




around the dial 
NHL Boston at Philadelphia 7:00p.m., OLN 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL Bethune Cookman at Syracuse 8 p.m., ESPN U 
NFL 


Associated Press 
PHILADELPHlA-Ter­rell Owens can take his touchdowns and dance somewhere else. 
The tempestuous star receiver won't return to the Philadelphia Eagles this season -or probably ever -because of "a large num­ber of situations that accu­mulated over a long period of time," coach Andy Reid said Monday. 
Owens was suspended for Sunday night's 17-10 loss at Washington, and will remain suspended lor three more games without pay. After that, the Eagles plan to deactivate him for the rest of the season. 

Reid said the outspoken player "had been warned repeatedly about the conse­quences of his actions." 
"We gave Terrell every opportunity to avoid this outcome," he said. 
Owens was suspended Saturday, two days after he said the Eagles showed "a lack of class" for not pub­licly recognizing his 1OOth career touchdown catch in a game on Oct. 23. In the same interview with ESPN.com on Thursday, Owens said the Eagles would be better off with Green Bay's Brett ravre at quarterback instead of Donovan McNabb. 
Owens also was involved in a fight last week with for· mer Eagles defensive end Hugh Douglas, who remains with the team as its "ambassador." Owens apologized for his com­ments about the organiza­tion in a brief statement on Friday, but he didn't apolo­gize to McNabb or the team. 
"The league has been notified by the players' union that they will be grieving our right to take that action," Heid said, "therefore then~ is nothing more that I can say at this point." 
Owens summoned poliee to his house in Moorestown, N.J., late Monday because there were some people on his property. Owens said he wanted to be left alone, had no comment and would contact the news media when he did want to speak, police at the scene said. 
Owens' agent, Drew Hosenhaus, refused to eom­ment. Owens' relationship with the Eagles took a dras­tic turn after he hired Rosnnhaus and demanded a new eontract just o1w s1mson into the snvnn-year. $48.97 million deal he signed last summer. 
IN BRIEF Duke tops NCAA basketball's 
preseason poll 
Duke is back at No. 1 in Tho Associated Pmss' preseason college basketball poll, while defending champion North Carolina failed to even make the Top 25. 
Kansas, the preseason No. 1 last year and another regular in the poll, also was not among those teams ranked Monday. 
The Blue Devils were a runaway ehoiee for No. 1, the sixth time they have started the season atop the ran kings. 
North Carolina becomes the lirst defending national champion not to be in the preseason poll the next sea­son sinee the Kansas Jayllawks in 1988-89. The Tar llenls lost their top seven scorers from last season, three to graduation and four underclass­men will attempt to enter this year's NBA draft. 
Bolstered by the return of All· Ameriea guard J.J. Hedick and all­conference center Shelden Williams from a team that went 27-6 and reached the third round of the NCAA tournament, Duke reeeivnd 61 first­place ballots and 1, 785 points from the 72-membnr national mndia 

N~~iy headlines Hockey Hall 
of Fame inductees 
TOHONTO -Former Boston Bruins star Cam Neely was induetnd into the Hockey Hall of Fame on Monday along with late Soviet for­ward Valeri Kharlamov and Canadian amateur hockey leader Murray Costello. 
The 40-year-old Neely, who recent­ly rejoined the Bruins as an ambas­sador, had 395 goals and 299 assists in 726 regular-season games in a eareer cut short by injuries at age 
31. The power forward had a Boston-record 55 playoff goals. 
"It's great to be recognized for tho way I played the game," Neely said. "It's not strietly about goals and assists. It meant as mueh to me to give a big hit as it did to seore a big goal and to leave a mark for being that kind of player is special to me." 
Pete Rose Jr. guilty of 
steroid distribution 
NASHVILLE. Tenn.-Pete Hos1• .Jr., tlw son of baseball's all-timP hits leader, pleadl'd guilty Monday to charges that lw distrihutPd CBL, a drug sonwtimns sold as a stnroid alt.nrnat.ivn, to his minor lnagun tnammates. 
Thn :~5-ynar-old Hosn appnarnd bnl'orn a f'ndnraljudgn and said noth­ing but "yns, sir" wlwn asknd if lw understood thn charges and plna. 
Hose could bn snntnn1~nd to 21 lo 24 months in f'ndnral prison and fined up to $1 million under terms of' his dna! with prosncutors, Assistant 
U.S. Attornny Paul ()'Brinn said. Tlw snntencing !waring is snt f'or Fnb. 20. 
"This is a tragedy. Anyonn who knows this young man knows lw is a very, very f'inn young man," Hose's attorney, .JniTmy Brody, said outside the courthouse. "Tiw usP of' this stun· is common. It's used as a slnep aid by many people in sports. And he got caught in a time warp because it was legal up to 2000." 
Tuesday, November 8, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 14 
PGA 
tJniversity of Notre Dame
2005 ranks among 

Woods' best years 

The golfer will play four more events this season before winter 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Tiger Woods boarded his plane at midnight for Shanghai, starting a four­week stretch of five events before he can wrap a ribbon around 2005 and decide where it ranks among his 10 seasons on the PGA Tour. 
With six victories, two majors and all the top awards, some consider it his second-best year. Others favor his '99 sea­son, when he won eight times -including four in a row ­and one major. 
He gave himself more chances on the back nine Sunday in the majors this year, a big plus. 
Then again, twice he didn't even make it to the weekend. 
"It's a toss-up," Woods said after his runner-up finish to Bart Bryant in the Tour Championship. 
Considering the state of his game when he left East Lake a year ago, Woods didn't mind this kind of debate. 
He used to talk about progress in his swing that only he could see, but hardly any­one believed. 
Now he has the best kind of evidence -a green jacket from the Masters, a silver claret jug from the British Open, two more World Golf Championships, and PGA Tour victories at Dora! and Torrey Pines against the strongest fields this side of a major. 
Woods measures success almost exclusively by the majors, so there was no hesita­tion when he was asked for a quick assessment of the year shortly after his final putt dropped Sunday afternoon. 
"A great season," he said. "To make all the changes that we've made the past couple of years now, and to have this type of contention in the major championships again, that's ultimately where I want to be." 
Woods has said the reason he revamped his swing was to get even better than his record­setting 2000 season, when he was perceived as unbeatable. Along with winning nine times in 20 starts, including the final three majors, Woods only fin­ished out of the top 10 three times. 
He is not there yet. 
Instead of rebuilding his mystique, Woods was a man of mystery this year. 
He provided the most dra­matic shot of the year on the 16th hole at the Masters, when his chip from behind the green did a U-turn at the top of the ridge, trickled to the cup and paused for two full seconds before falling for birdie. 
It was vintage Woods, until he followed that with two slop­py bogeys to lose his two-shot lead and fall into a playoff with Chris DiMarco. Then came his best two swings of the week ­maybe the year -to birdie the last hole. 
"This year, I think the biggest moment for me was the playoff at Augusta, because I had just played three bad holes in a row, but then I hit my two best golf shots when I absolutely needed it the most," Woods said. "So that was a huge turn­ing point for me this year." 
His power was on display all year. 

International Study Program in 
Angers, France Paris, France 
INFORMATION MEETING 
"Tying Up Loose Ends Before Packing Your Suitcase" 
With Prof. Paul McDowell and returnees ofthe program 

Wednesday, November 9, 2005 7:30PM 118 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2005 Academic Year 2006-2007 Fall 2006 Spring 2007 Applications available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
Free Pizza 
Free Pizza Free Pizza Free Pizza 


Interested in IRELAND? Want to study in IRELAND? Want to work in IRELAND? 
Information meeting 

THE GREAT HALL, O'SHAG 8:00-9:00 pm THURSDAY, 10 NOV. 2005 
Faculty available to answer questions about the 
MINOR in IRISH LANGUAGE & LITERATURE 
and the 

MINOR in IRISH STUDIES 
Free Pizza Free Pizza Free Pizza 
Free Pizza 

Sponsored by the Dept. ofIrish Language & Literature and the Keough Institute for Irish Studies 
Bankruptcy Liquidation Sale! 
300 S. St. Louis Blvd., Ste. 200, South Bend. 
Nov. 8th-Nov. 11th, open 1Oam to 5:30pm daily Terms of sale CASH, credit cards. NO CHECKS All items sold "AS IS". Computers with 21" monitors, Fax machines, copiers, scanners, ID card maker, printers, Bifone phone system, Plantronic headsets and Misc. items. 


'Iltcsday, November 8, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB 
Street, Howard get top rookie awards 
Oakland's closer is the second straight winner from the A's 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-Huston Street knpt thn AL Hookie of the Year award in-house. 
Oakland's poised eloser lweanw the sneond consneu­tive winner from the Athletics, and Philadelphia Phillies first hasmnan Hyan Howard won Uw Nl. award on Monday. 
Stred hardly had to look far for inspiration. The previous AI. winner was his roommate this snason, A's shortstop Bobby Crosby. 
"Maybe hn rubbed ol'f," Strm~t said. 
Street, who took over as Oakland's doser in May, got 15 of 28 lirst-plaee votns in ballot­ing by the Baseball Writers' Association of America and finished with 97 points. New York Yankees second baseman Hobinson Cano eame in second with 57 points, followed by Tampa Bay designated hitter .lonny Gomes with 39. 
Called up from the minors for good on .July 1, Howard replaced injured star Jim Thome at first base and led all rookies with 22 home runs. lie rnceived 19 of 32 first-place votes and 109 points to beat out Houston outfielder Willy Taveras, who got 78 points. Atlanta right fielder Jeff Francoeur was third with 60. 
Both top rookies only got a chance to play in the big leagues this season because teammates got injured. 
"Things just started falling in," said Howard, surprised by his eomfortable margin of vic­tory. "You never want to see anyone hurt or injured, but I just carne up and tried to make the most of my opportunity." 
Street is the son of former Texas quarterbaek James Stmet, who lnd the Longhorns to a national title in 1969. The 22-year-old righty became Oakland's dos•~r when Octavio Dote! went down May 20 with a season-ending elbow injury and went 5-1 with 23 saves in 27 chances and a 1.72 ERA­second among AL closers to New York's Mariano Hivera. 
"It's a tremendous honor. Coming into the season my goal was just to stay, one day at a time. Coming out of spring training it didn't even look like I had a chance to make the team," Street said. "Hookie of the Year, it's something that's pretty cool -you've got one ehanee to get it done." 
Street had 72 strikeouts in 78 1-3 innings, and opponents batted only .194 against him. 
"lie worked hard," Jamns Street said. "The biggest thing is he got lueky with the Dote! situation, but he went out and got the job done. I'm awful proud of him, his morn and l both are. l told him, 'In sports they give you awards for things you've already done, so what are you going to do next year'?' l-Ie still got the job done. They ean't ever take that away from him." 
Now the family has another prize to put in the crowded trophy room at home. 
"It's dominated by dad right now," the pitcher said, adding that he plans to give the plaque to his parents. "Made my mom ery this morning. It's obviously a pretty big deal if my mom is crying." 
One day early in the season, Phillies manager Charlie Manuel compared Howard to a young Willie Stargell, the Pittsburgh Pirates Hall of Farner. Howard had long been a touted slugger in the minors, but his path to the majors appeared blocked until back and elbow injuries sidelined Thome. 
Howard was called up from Triple-A twice this year. Finally given a chance to play regularly, he took full advan­tage and quickly became one of the most dangerous hitters in Philadelphia's lineup, bat­ting .288 with 63 RBis in 88 games. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Alabama takes No. 3 spot 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-Alabama is now on deck. 
The Crimson Tide moved into third place -slightly ahead of Miami in the Bowl Championship Series standings Monday, putting unbeaten 'Barna in position to play for a national title if Southern California or Texas stumbles down the stretch. 
The first-place Trojans and Longhorns remain locked into the top two spots and on course to play for college foot­ball's championship at the Hose Bowl on Jan. 4. 
USC raised its BCS average to .9802 this week and kept its lead on Texas (.9765). For the first time in the BCS' eight­year history, the same teams have held the top two spots for the first four standings. USC has been in first for three weeks and Texas one. 
And they're both way ahead of Alabama this week. The Tide has a BCS average of .8814, leaving it barely ahead of Miami (.8805). This is Alabama's best showing ever in the BCS standings. 
The Hurricanes {7-1) defeat­ed previously unbeaten Virginia Tech 2 7-7 on Saturday to make it possible for both them and the Tide to move up two spots this week. The Hokies had been in third place in the BCS standings. 
"It really doesn't matter right now, because the bowls aren't next week and they're not this week," Tide linebacker DeMeco Ryans said Monday. "The sea­son isn't over yet, so being 3 or 4 isn't a big deal." 
Penn State is fifth, followed by Virginia Tech, LSU, Ohio State, Georgia and Oregon. Like Miami, all of those teams have one loss. No team with one loss has ever been ranked lower than fourth at this point in the season and played in the BCS title game. 
Notre Dame (6-2) moved up three spots to 11th, meaning the Fighting Irish are now in place to become BCS eligible by winning their final three games. Notre Dame needs at least nine regular-season wins and a final BCS ranking in the top 12 to be eligible for selec­tion by one of college football's four big-dollar bowl games. 


This is the final season Notre Dame can keep the entire $14 million-plus payout from a BCS bowl. Starting next season, the Fighting Irish will be guaran­teed BCS money every season -even when they don't play in a game -but will receive a far smaller share when they do play in either the Hose, Sugar, Fiesta or Orange bowls. 
Alabama is facing a difficult stretch run with LSU coming to Tuscaloosa on Saturday and the Iron Bowl at Auburn on Nov. 19. If the Tide survives, it'd play in the Southeastern Conference title game, likely 

For alimited time, buy one air/hotel package and the second person flies free from South Bend! 
Packages available with 30 ofLas Vegas' most exciting hotels. 
Book now at 

www.allegiantair.com 
Calll-800-432-3810 

against Georgia or Florida. 
But even winning out against that tough schedule makes the Tide a long shot to catch USC or Texas if those two remain undefeated. 
"Anytime you go undefeated in the SEC and then have to play the SEC championship game on top of that, you'd kind of like to think that's enough." Tide quarterback Brodie Croyle said. "All we can do is handle our own business." 
Alabama could become the second straight unbeaten SEC champion to be left out of the BCS title game in favor of the Pac-1 0 and Big 12 champions. Last year, Auburn had a per­fect regular season, but ended up in the Sugar Bowl as USC and Oklahoma played in the 
Orange Bowl for thn national title. 
USC and Texas an~ currently Nos. 1 and 2, respectively, in the AP, coaehes' and Harris polls. Thn llarris and eoaches' poll eaeh count for orw-third of a BCS average. A compilation of six computnr rankings makn up thn otlwr third. Thn Trojans and Longhorns have a huge lead in tile polls and thn com­puters. 
Alabama is third in th«' coaches' poll and fourth in tlw Harris and AP polls. Miami is third in the Harris and nwdia polls and fourth in tlw coadws' voting. 
USC linishns tlw s11ason with a game at Cali l'orn ia on Saturday, then homn gamns against Fresno State (Nov. I1Jl and UCLA ([}ec. ;{). Texas plays Kansas at homn on Saturday and at Tnxas A&M on Nov. 25. The Big 12 title ganw is l>ec. 3 and Colorado would be tlw Longhorns' most likPiy oppo­nent. 
The final BCS standings are n~lnasnd and the pairings l'or the llosn, Sugar, Finsta and Orange bowls arn set on Dnc. 4. 
Tuesday, November 8, 2005 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 




Bracket 
continued from page 20 
ment, Notre Dame defender Christie Shaner is not worried about the brackets. 
"It's a difficult draw, but its part of the game," Shaner said. "We knew going into the tour­nament that some­thing like that could happen. We obviously we can't look that far ahead," Shaner said. 
Notre Dame is on a 10-game winning streak heading into the tournament. The Irish have just come off a weekend where they won the Big East tourna­ment, and feel they are picking up their game at the right time. "I think our team has [begun to peak]," Shaner said. "We had some losses early on in the season but because of those we've 

may be at a little "It's a difficult draw only gotten bet­disadvantage not ter.
but its part ofthe

playing at our "With each 
game. We knew

home field ... but game you see they [have pres­going into the everyone step­sure on them ping up the
tournament that 

too]." level it's
something like that 

But before the playoff time." possible quarterfi­could happen" Notre Dame nal matchup has the added between two of the pressure of last
Christie Shaner 

top five teams in season's NCAA 
Irish junior 

the country, Notre title hanging 

Dame has some work to do. 
The Irish will play Mid-Continent Conference champion Valparaiso Friday night with the winner moving on to play the winner of Michigan State and Bowling Green Sunday. 
"Obviously we have to take one game at a time, because we have [Valparaiso] and if we don't take care of that game, we don't have a Sunday game," Shaner said. 
Should Notre Dame survive this weekend, the Irish will move on to play whoever comes out of the bracket that includes Duke, Central Connecticut State and Fairfield. Notre Dame would have home-field advantage in that game as well. 
"A lot of girls were looking further into the schedule ... but 

Belles 

continued from page 20 
Christine Guidi and Meghan Gollhofer who claimed the 1DO­backstroke and the 50-free, respectively. 
Despite the loss, the Belles 
over its head. 
With a 19-2 
record, and having outscored their oppo­nents 46-1 during the 10-game winning streak, the Irish clear­ly have the strength on both sides of the ball to repeat as champions. 
But Shaner said there is a lot that goes into winning a cham­pionship -such as peaking at the right time, good team chemistry and even a little bit of luck. 
"I think winning last year was a great thing, but you need a lot of things to go right when it comes to NCAA time," Shaner said. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum could not be reached for com­ment Monday night. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
took a lot from the meet in that they solidified their team chem­istry going into this winter. 
"This was a great meet for us, we really came together as a team and had a lot of fun," cap­tain Katie Dingeman said. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu and Robin Domer at rdomer1 @nd.edu 
BCS 
continued from page 20 
for the same benefits. 

But before the Irish can cash in, they still have some work to do. 
Navy is the first of three games remaining on the squad's schedule. Notre Dame kicks off with the Midshipmen at 1 p.m. Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium. The Irish then will have one more home game Nov. 19 against Syracuse before traveling to Stanford for a Nov. 26 matchup. 
Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis believes his team cannot look past its opponents, despite being aware of what winning the remainder of its regular season games would mean. 
"Both the coaching staff and the players are not ignorant about the ramifications of each game," Weis said at his Sunday press conference. "But the only way you build up your stock as a team is by winning week by week, and as long as you look at it that way, each week is a means to an end." 
This will be the final year of the current BCS arrangement. The BCS will add a fifth bowl Survey Monday, gaining official to the rotation next season, recognition for his two-touch­and Notre Dame will earn $4.5 down return performance million for a berth instead of against Tennessee. $15 million. Zbikowski returned a punt 
But a stipulation of that 78 yards for a touchdown and arrangement also will award an interception 33 yards for a Notre Dame $1.3 million each score against the Volunteers season, regardless of whether Saturday. He is also a nominee it plays in a BCS bowl. If the for USA Today Player of the Irish play in a non-BCS bowl Week and Cingular/ABC Sports game in any given season, they All-America Player of the still will receive the full payout Week. for that game in addition to the Coaches named Zbikowski $1.3 million. special teams captain for 
Saturday's game against Navy, 

Notes: the third time this season he 
+ Irish strong safety Tom has received that nod. Zbikowski earned a "Game Ball" from the Master Coaches + Charlie Weis found out 
The Notre Dame Joumal of Law, Ethics & Public Policy Presents: 
who dumped the Gatorade on his back after Saturday's 41-21 win over Tennessee. The Irish coach was not sure immediate­ly after the contest who gave him the unwanted bath, but watching film Sunday revealed that defensive end Justin Brown and defensive tackle Trevor Laws were the culprits. 
"I've done my research and we will address that later this afternoon," Weis said with a laugh during his Sunday press conference. "I saw Trevor Laws and Justin Brown with a bucket behind me." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

The Religious Commitments of.Judicial Nominees: Appropriate Questioning and Acceptable Answers 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2005 4:30P.M. 
Eck Center Auditoriun~ The University ofNotre Dan~e 
A symposium panel discussion featuring: 
HONORABLE D'ARMY BAILEY, Tennessee Circuit Court, 30th District & DR. MATTHEW .J. FRANCK, Professor and Chairman of Political Science Department, Radford University & DR. FRANCIS .J. BECKWITH, Associate Director of the .J.M. Dawson Institute of Church-State Studies, Baylor University 
During the recent Supreme Court continuation hearings, a Senator asked John Roberts what role his faith would play in his jurisprudence. He answered that his faith would not play any role. 
The  Bush Administration  has offered religion seemingly  as a ke y  qualification  for judicial  
appointment.  
Is  the  only  acceptable  answer  to  religious questions  one  of disavowing any  intersection of  

religious commitments and jurisprudence? What are the central concerns of questions that target the religious commitments of judicial nominees? In regard to the equality of all people before the law, is it desirable or practical for a judge to separate moral or religious convictions about equality from the judge's jurisprudence? Is there something different about inquiring into a judicial nominee's religious commitments than into those of a legislator? 
FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 
For more information, please visit H1vw.ndedul~ndjleppl or contact Allison at ahollaba@nd.edu. 

Tuesday, November 8, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page I 7 

2blocks Nof Corby's 574.233.5000 

Monday: Karaoke Night, $2.50 House Special 
Tuesday: $1.50 Domestic Bottles $2.00 Wells 
Wednesday: Trivia Night, $3.00 Pitchers 
Thursday: $2.00 Imports 
Sunday: $10.00 Domestic Buckets 
Kitchen Open Every Day Daily Grill Specials: M-Th 4pm-3am Fri 11 am-3am Sat 4pm-3am Sun 11 am-12midnight 
574.234.4015 


@o;R_B!Y''I 
IRISH PUB 
If" EST.1990 ~ e-ue ~ ~.rt4 """" 6"-4 
1\JESDAYS AND ThURSDAYS: 
$3.00 PITCHERS $I .00 DOMESTIC DRAFTS 
NO COVER! 
$I .00 CANS EVERY DAY OF SELECT DOMESTICS 
MADIS<)N ()Ys"rEH 13AH 


Open Sundays from 6-12 




$1.25dogs 

$1.25 drafts 
ALL DAY EVERY DAY 1Oo/o Discount w/ Student ID 
1733 South Bend Ave. 
57 4.277.2527 

11zu.tJrltiJJ 32~J o~t $3 #~m~ qam~j 8-//am!




/.,•.,·•n.u.
>BllDS
••W • 
.
® 

Watch all Notre  
Dame Games­ Never a cover  
Most and Largest  with Student ID  
Screens in Town  GO IRISH  
2046 South Bend Ave  
Across from Martins Plaza  
272·1766  
MONDAY  THURSDAY  

All food 1/2 price, $10.00 buckets, Every Thursday Private Party for Monday Night Football on HDTV NO, HC and SMC students 
2nd Penny night. 

TUESDAY 1t welts and drafts, ND penny night, $1 off cover with OJ plays hits all night long student 10, OJ all night, 1t wells and drafts FRIDAY 
OJ till 3:00a.m., WEDNESDAY pre-game warm up Live trivia night with cash prizes and free drinks, 1 to 8 people SATURDAY per team, 8:00p.m. to 10:00 p.m. Game day -Go IRISH. Defending champs: NO law OJ after games, Legal Eagles. 69¢ bitty burger, celebrate victory and boogie 49¢ wings, $10.00 buckets till dawn. ESPN game plan 
SUNDAY $1.50 burgers, dogs, fries and bottles. NFL Sunday tickets · 14 screens. 


EVERY WEDNESDAY
75¢ 
Well Drinks 
$2 
ENORMOUS 
· Basket of Fries 
EVERY THURSDAY 

$2 
ANY drink 
in the house!! 


OPEN MIC NIGHT!! 
Come play or sing on stage with our entertainers 
---------~---­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 8, 2005 
"I think we realize we lost team, and we're ready to take more than just a conference on the NCAA tournament and
Tarutis 
match," she said. "We lost the the Big East tournament." possibility of a better seed in Now, Notre Dame has tangi­
continued from page 20 
the NCAA tourna-ble proof that it ment. That will isn't invincible. at No. 5 in the nation in the motivate us to do Now, after thor­
"/ think that we 

American Volleyball Coaches' a lot better in the oughly dominating 
played really well 

Association poll. following games." the first two Following a rare loss Sunday They still have in the first two games against the to Big East rival Pittsburgh, hope, should they Panthers last
games. And then 

Notre Dame is 22-2 overall and win out and play Sunday (30-23,
we just kind oflost

11-1 in the Big East, coming off well in the Big 30-15) and then the second-longest winning­East tournament our focus." blowing the final streak in program history -a next weekend. three games, the 15-match tear in which it "This is just one Irish know they
Ashley Tarutis 

dropped only four games. match, and I have must play a full
Irish sophomore

With the loss, the Irish realize so much confi­match each time they might have blown any dence in our they step on the chance at a top national seed in team that we'll be able to court. kind of lost our focus. We kind the NCAA tournament. But bounce back," Tarutis said. "I think that we played really of lost respect for them Tarutis said the loss will moti­"We'll have no problem with well in the first two games," [Pittsburgh! after we killed vate them even more. that. We're just focused as a Tarutis said. "And then we just them in the first two games." 

The positive effect of beginning your career with Ernst &Young is too great to measure. 
Agreat start can take you further. At Ernst &Young we've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. And what we're offering is an opportunity to learn from some of the best talent in the industry. Become a benchmark for success. Visit us on the Web at ey.comjusjcareers, or look for us on campus. 
FORTUNE. 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~ 

Audit • Tax • Transaction Advisory Services  iJJ ERNST& YOUNG  
Quality In Everything We Do  
C 2005 ERNST & YOUNG LLP  


The Irish had today and Monday off because of their recent grueling schedule con­sisting of matches against top Big East teams. 
"We've had a lot of really tough matches lately," Tarutis said. "We'll be in the gym Wednesday." 
The last time the Irish lost, they went on the second­longest winning-streak in school history. When asked if she and her teammates are hungrier than ever to get back on the court, Tarutis didn't hes­itate. 
"Oh yeah, for sure," she said. 

Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 
NHL 


Crosby is 
dominant 


in victory 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Sidney Crosby's first goal in Madison Square Garden helped the Pittsburgh Penguins get out of last place. 
Crosby -the game's first star -scored his fifth goal in his 15th NHL game and Mario Lemieux picked on a familiar opponent in the Penguins' 3-2 victory over the New York Rangers on Monday night. 
After starting the season with nine consecutive losses ­five in overtime -the Penguins jumped over the New York Islanders into fourth place in the Atlantic Division. 
Crosby has three goals and two assists through the first four games of the Penguins' longest road trip of the sea­son. And it's no surprise that Pittsburgh is 3-1 with one game left. 
"Every game he gets better," Lemieux said. "That's amazing that he just turned 18 and he's our best player night in and night out. It's incredible." 
Crosby had never been in Manhattan before Sunday, but he looked totally comfortable on the ice. 
"It's an historic place," said Crosby, who has points in 13 games. "The atmosphere here . .. it's always a challenge to play here so it was nice to get one." 
Ziggy Palffy also scored, and Sebastien Caron made 35 saves in his sixth straight start for the Penguins [4-6-5], who rebounded from a 6-3 loss at Boston on Saturday. Lemieux has 61 goals and 71 assists in 68 games against the Rangers. Crosby's goal brought a wide smile to his face. 
Tuesday, November 8, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

PEANUTS 
WE.~c.oME: To c:p."'-e:s? No 
CAl:; E. SE..~\IIC.E..S. 

Cp... 'I:..E. tOP. M'j 
E,-~'1. ''"" 

1-1£1:.1:. lo 'P\c..¥-_."-""--"'"" 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Equals 
1 Big maker of 33 Rodeo rope metal products 
34 "Must be 6 "The Fox and something_
" the Grapes" 35M author 
42 Massage deeply 11 The "it" in "Step 
43 Hotmail on it!" 
alternative 14lmam's 
44 c declaration 50 Classmate 
15 Shelley's 51 Challenged
"Cheers" role 52 Get an
16 Prov. on (ace)
Niagara Falls 53 Prenatal test,
17 Egg-shaped 
for short 18 E 
55 Halloween wear 20 London's Big 
57 Morse Tony-winning role 21 "Do the Right 
59 Squared
Thing" pizzeria 
62 Like a game in 23 Actor Bruce 
which batters 24 Good-for­
bat .000 nothing 64 6 on a phone 26 Some Baltic 65 Many an residents ex-dictator 29 Jazz's Fitzgerald 66 Not just fat 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

67 Elton John, e.g. 
68 Flip out 
69 Michelins or 
Pirellis 
DOWN 1 "This is for 
Superman!" 2 Worms or grubs 3 Setting of the 
movie "Eight Crazy Nights" 4 Stable bit? 5 Drinks stirred in pitchers 
6 Title subject of a 1975 Truffaut film 
7 E = mc2 (first presented 9/27/1905) 
a Mediterranean isI. 9 Yoko 1 0 One of the lvys 11 Modern means of search 12 "Measure for Measure" villain 13 Minnesota college 19 Place 22 PC key 


Church on Time" 27 30-second spot, e.g. 
~~~~~gl···~~~l~t~!~ 28 Exam with a
!-; perfect score of 2400 30 Part of a chorus line? 31 Lizard: Prefix 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
L\SIEN. IHE. S.loe._e.. 1-s L..we., R.luH·r 0\JE:..R. \L-1E..\2.E. . 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Kevan Choset  
32 Actress Lotte 36 Auctioneer's shout 37 Italian sports car, briefly 38 avis  41 Ages and ages 44 Jerks 45 Sana'a native 46 Yoda, to Luke Skywalker 47 Elton John, e.g.  54 Designer Cassini 56 Granny_ 58 Salt Lake City collegians 60 Prefix with skeleton  
39 "Nuts!"  48 Collected  61 Darken  
40 Event on the horizon  49 Nonvinyl records, briefly  63 Formal Japanese wear  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
page 19 
HENRI ARNOLD



JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LIWLT 




CIJ I I 
<e2005 Tribuna Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ICMEN 
j 
1 

ri I I I WOTOWKj 
1 ri j
www.jumble.com 
YESGER 
Answer: WITH 

A( I I]"( I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: PEONY HAVEN WIZARD BIGAMYYesterday's Answer: What the tycoon received when he sold the gum factory-A "WAD" OF MONEY 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 

HOW 11-ll= PRe:rz:.E:L MAKE:R INC.RE:A5£:0 BU51NE:55, 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAV: Jason and Jeremy London, 33; Joni Mitchell, 62; Todd McKee, 42 
Happy Birthday: Relationships should be your prime concern this year--both business and personal partnerships. Live in the moment and give it your all. Be honest with yourself and those you encounter. and make a point of sticking to your game plan from start to linish. Your numbers are 2, 8, 15, 28, 33, 45 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Check out the possibilities, but don't set yourscll up for a fall. Change may be required in your personal life so you can follow your professional goals. Rc clear about everything you do allll don't settle for less. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't disregard someone who is trying to get your attention. You can gain from interacting with this person. Love, romance and a whole new lifestyle arc looking pretty positive. ****" GEMINI (May 21-June 20): If you move quickly you will he able to make some money today. Luck is in your comer. A unique concept you've been mulling around in your head may he your ticket to financial freedom. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You have a lot going ti.Jr you today, so don't blow it by getting all wrapped up in your own melodramas. Look beyond the little things that arc bothering you and you will sec how much you can achieve. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Put the big push on when it comes to career and making money. You should have an opportunity to meet someone you can partner with. Don't fool yourself into forgetting people will want something in return. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A younger person may ask li.1r your help today. Don't criticize. Someone you arc introduced to today will end up becoming an intricate pa1t of your future.***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't even go there if it means setting yourself up for failure. You can succeed if you pick and choose wisely. A chance to do something very different career-wise is apparent. Caution and research will lead in the right direction. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): You will get along well with friends and relatives as long as you arc completely upfront about what you want. A problem with someone you live with may be discouraging. Don't let this person stand in your way.**** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21): You will be lucky with money-making deals. An unusual experience through involvement in cultuml events or individuals from totally different backgrounds will be educational. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may have trouble making up your mind but once you do, you will be off to the races. A chance meeting with someone from your past will influence you favorably. Socialize. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't let emotional matters stop you from making a good financial or professional decision. You may be buried in red tape and fonnalities that appear to be a waste of time. Refrain from putting up a fuss. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Getting involved in a group that can offer you a different outlook or way of doing things will be to your benefit. It's time to revamp your lite on several diftcrent levels. Boredom is what is making you feel so rundown.**** 
Birthday Baby: You are industrious, confident and very imaginative. You have great vision and a wonderful power of persuasion. You have a strong sense ot justice and fair play. 
Eugenia:~ Web sites: astroadt•iL·e.c·omfor.fim, eugt•niula"it.c·rmtjhr ccn~fldentictl c·cmsultaticms 
---~------------------------------------------------~----------~---------­

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______________ State _____ Zip_______ 
-. 
THE OBSERVER 







PORTS
Tuesday, November 8, 2005 
page 20 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Bring on Valpo 

By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's defense of its national championship will begin Friday night at 7:30p.m. 
against Valparaiso, the Irish learned Monday when the 2005 NCAA Tournament bracket was announced. 

The Irish Waldrum have home field advantage until the quar­terfirlals, when they will travel to Portland should both top seeds advance. 
It is a difficult draw for the No. 5 Irish, as Portland is the No. 2 team in the country. Despite the tough arrange-
see BRACKET/page 16 
FOOTBALL 

Irish move to No. 11 in BCS rank 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
Notre Dame moved up three spots in the Bowl Championship Series (BCS) rankings this week, from No. 14 to No. 11, after its 41-21 win over Tennessee Saturday. That three-spot jump could equal approximately $15 million in gains for the University. 
Under the current arrange­ment Notre Dame has with the BCS, the Irish need to win nine games and finish the season in the BCS top-12 to be eligible for a berth in a BCS bowl -this season, the Orange, Sugar, Fiesta and Hose bowls. 
Notre Dame is guaranteed a BCS berth if it has nine wins and finishes in the BCS top six. 
If selected, the Irish will receive approximately $15 mil­lion in a payout normally reserved for a major confer­ence team. Notre Dame is con­sidered a partner in the BCS along with the six major confer­ences and, therefore, is eligible 
see BCS/ page 16 


SOFIA BALLON/The Observer Irish quarterback Brady Quinn is pressured by Justin Harrell in Notre Dame's 41-21 win over Tennessee Saturday. 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Tarutis willing to take the good with the bad 
By TOM DORWART SportS Writer 
When things go well for the No. 5 Notre Dame volleyball team, Ashley Tarutis rarely receives the credit she deserves. 
Tarutis sets up teammates Lauren Brewster, Lauren Kelbley, Carolyn Cooper or Adrianna Stasiuk for kills, and at the players who spike receive much of the recogni­

·~ 
NHL 
1--LLI 

c.,:) Pittsburgh 3 

MATTHEW SMEOBEAG/The Observer Senior Candace Chapman, left, battles with Connecticut's Elizabeth Eng Sunday in Notre Dame's 5-0 Big East Championship win. The Irish will host Valparaiso Friday in the NCAAs. 
tion. 
But when things don't go so well for the Irish, Tarutis will­ingly takes the blame. 
"I put the blame on my shoul­ders when we don't perform well offensively," she said. "And when we do perform well. .. I'm pretty happy." 
Tarutis is often the unsung leader who drives the potent Irish offense. The sophomore setter leads the Big East in set assists with a 12.88 per game average. Tarutis has 1095 set 
NCAA fOOTBALl 
With its 17-0 win 

Saturday and Virginia


z N.Y. Rangers 2 
Tech's loss to Miami,
Sidney Crosby scored 

~ 
::5 
Alabama takes hold of
= 
his fifth goal of the year 
the No. 3 in the BCS
in the Penguins' win at
c:c 
rankings.
Madison Square
ti Garden. 


page 18 
page 15 

assists through only 85 games, while many of the other Big East leaders have played more than 100 games. 
As a vocal leader, she keeps the Irish offense rolling. Notre Dame ranks No. 4 in the con­ference in kills per game with 
16.05 and No. 3 in hitting per­centage with a .254 average. 
But most importantly, the Irish are tied for No. 1 in the conference with 11 wins and sit 
see TARUTIS/page 17 
MLB 
SMC SWIMMING 


Belles lose 111eet vvith Engineers 

Rose-Hulman beats Saint Mary's 113-85 Monday afternoon 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA and 
BECKI DOMER 
Sporrs Writers 
Despite improved perform­ances since its last meet, Saint Mary's lost to Rose-Hulman Saturday 113-85 as only seven swimmers showed up for the Belles. 
The lack of divers guaranteed the Hose-IIulman an upper hand in the meet. 
The small numbers allowed "others to have the opportunity to swim events that they nor­mally wouldn't," captain Kelly Nelis said. 
She herself proved once again to be a leader for the Belles winning in both the 1 ,000-free and the 400-free relay. 
Junior Karla McGough also turned in top performances, winning the 500-free and join­ing Nelis in the 400-free relay victory. 
"We had a lot of fun and are looking forward to our meets in January," McGough said. 
Solid efforts by Nelis and McGough were not enough to give the Belles a victory. The Engineers walked away with six individual wins and one relay victory. Sophomore Anita lsch carried the Engineers, winning the 100-and 200-free. lsch was also a vital member of the winning 200-medley relay team. 
Other key players for Hose­Hulman included seniors 
see BELLES/page 16 


HY PHAN/The Observer Ashley Tarutis, lower right, anticipates a return in an Oct. 29 match against Louisville. 
PGA 
NBA 
NBA 
Philadelphia's Ryan 

After his second place 


Miami 90 
Cleveland 105 
Howard and Oakland's 

finish last weekend, 

New Jersey 89 
Toronto 93 
Huston Street won the 

Tiger W<?ods has put 
Dwyane Wade scored 
Lebron James scored 
NL and AL Rookie of 

together one of his best 
23 points in the Heat 's 
27 points and Larry
the Year, respectively. 

years of his career with 
win, adding a free 
Hughes added 16 in the 

four tournaments left to 
throw with 5.2 seconds 
Cavs' win over the 
play. 

left to take the lead. 
Raptors. 


page 12
page 15 
page 14 
page 12 


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 






