
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND trustee, benefactor Siegfried dies at 62 
Notre Dame alumnus underwrote residence hall, business building 
By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Editor 
Haymond Singfrind II, a Univnrsity bmwfaetor and mem­bnr of the Board of Trustnes widely known for his passion for Notrn Dame, died Thursday in Tulsa, Okla. lin was 62. 
Singfrind was a 1<)(,;; Notre Dame gradual11 whoso family s11rvnd as bnnnfactors of Si11gfrind llall. undnrwrotn the Si11gfried Building in the Mendoza College of Business and established the Hay and Milann Siegfried Chair in Entrepreneurial Studies, a posi­
tion now held by Dean of the Mendoza College of Business Carolyn Woo. 
Siegfried suiTered from amyotrophic latnral sclero­

sis (ALS), also Siegfried known as Lou Gehrig's Disease. 
"The Notre Dame family today lost one of its most cherished nwmbers, a man whose wisdom, leadership and generosity will be felt on this campus for all time," University President Father John Jenkins said in a statement. "We will miss his warm friendship and will be inspired by the courage he showed while tested by medical challenges in the past few years. Along with our prayers, our deepest sympathy goes to Milann, his wife, and all the Siegfried family." 
Senior resident assistant and former Siegfried Ilall president Dan Carey, who met Siegfried twice, described him as "an all­around great guy." 
"He had several loves in his life and they've become appar­ent," Carey said. "First, his fami­ly and his kids. lie was a great family man and had a great love 
for his wife." His second great love, Carey said, was Notre Dame. 
"His father was also an alum here and this place means the world to him," Carey said. "lie was still active on the Board of Trustees until the day he died." 
This active role in the University and in campus life was a constant for Siegfried, who Carey said had a strong connection to Siegfried residents and the dorm's community. 
"Even through his personal struggles he still took the time to come out and meet the guys," Carey said. "lie always went out of the way to make it feel like you lived in the best place on campus." 

Push for research underway 
Hditor's Note: This is the first article in a two-part series examining the presence and future of undergraduate research within different col­/eyes at Notre Dame. 
lly JOE TROMBELLO News Writer 
In the wake of University l'rnsident Fatlwr John Jenkins' inaugural address calling for an increasn in the number of undergraduatns involved in research. representatives from a number of colleges indicated that undergraduates are tak­ing part in rnsnarch activities but stressed that more work IHliHls to be done to promote and fund research opportuni­tins. 

Provost's office 
Vien president and associate 
. 

provost Dennis Jacobs said one of the challenges in discussing undergraduate research is accurately identifying the per­centage of undergraduates who are eurrently involved. 
According to the 2004 senior exit survey, 30 percent of graduating seniors identified themselves as having worked on undergraduate research with a faculty member at some point during their four-year tenure. 
However, in counting the number of students who sign up for academic credit in research, special studies or a senior thesis, only 10 percent of Notre Dame students are currently involved in research. Jenkins citnd this 10 percent figure in his inauguration speech as nvidence that more undergraduates need to be 
see RESEARCH/page 3 




Fifth Blue Mass honors e111ergency workers 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame police, fire and emergency personnel celebrated the annual Blue Mass Thursday in the Basilica of the Sacred lleart. 
The Blue Mass, which earns its name from the predominately blue-colored uniforms of police officers and lirelight­ers, was first held at Notre Dame Of! Oct. 11,2001. 
After Sept. 11, 2001, Director of Campus Ministry Father Richard Warner proposed to then-University President Father Edward Malloy the idea of a spe­cial Mass in memory of tho lire lighters and police ollicers that died as a result of the terrorist attacks. 
The memorial Mass, called a "month's mind," was held 30 days after tho attacks following Catholic tradition. Since 2001, it has been held every October. 
see MASS/page 4 

Carey never actually spoke with Siegfried due to the sevnrity of his ALS. 
"The first time I met him, hn was able to mumble maybe a thank you," Carey said. 
But this inability to spnak did­n't stop Siegfried from communi­cating with the men of the hall that bears his name. 
"Since then hn has spoken to the guys in tho dorm through lettnrs," Carny said. "Ito has this technology, this computer on his wheelchair" that allows him to write. 
Siegfried also connected with students through his rngular presnncn at Sil~gfrind int(lrhall 
see SIEGFRIED/page 6 

SMC vvill upgrade Internet 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint Mary's Editor 
Just days artnr warning stu­dents to buckle down for a year of slow Internet connections, Saint Mary's director of Information Tnchnology Keith Fowlkes announced Thursday the rnallocation of $17,000 to increase the College's band­width. 
Currnntly opnrating at 6.5 Megabits, the Internet connec­tion will expand to 45 Megabits, providing for substantially fastnr maneuvnl'ing of tho Wnb and legal downloading of music. 
StudHnt frustration with tho slow lnternnt connection increased in rnc:ent wonks. Many students said thn situa­tion was hindnring their ability to complete schoolwork. 
Upon student government olTiee rs' r11q uest, Fow Ikes attended Monday's Board of Governanee meeting and answernd questions about the cause of the sluggish conneetion and possible solutions. 
Fowlkes told Board members he was unsum when the situa­tion would improvn and nneour­aged students to lw "frugal" with tho lntnrnnt. 
But after thn mneting, Fowlkes communicated stu­dents' eoneerns to viee presi­dent and dean of faculty Pat White and vice prnsidnnt. for finance and administration Laurie Sticknlmaier, who authorized him to mallocatn thn necnssary funds. 
"Studnnts como lwr11 to get tho bnst ndtu:ation possible and they expect cnrtain snrviens," Fowlkns said. "ITlw deeisionl wasn't becausn wn had a lot of upsnt students. It was beeausn 
sec INTERNET/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A colu111n fro111 the inside 
I realized a while ago that I work for The Observer, and that gives me the opportunity to write a column on the inside. This is the inside col­umn where you get the inside story 
on things you  
are on the out- Adam Fairholm  
side of, right?  
OK.  
What I'm  Cartoonist  
going to say is  
that if you  

haven't already gone totally berserk over the infrared paper towel dispensers in the North Dining Hall bathrooms, there is probably something wrong with you. 
Man has always been contemplat­ing, saying, "What if we didn't have to touch things to get dry hands?" For about six million years the best thing anyone could come up with was a guy who sits in the bathroom and hands you towels. Psh, lame. Absolutely lame-o. Thanks history, thanks a lot. If history were here right now, I'd say, "Thanks a lot." I'd say it in a way that history would know that I am being sar­castic. 
Worst of all is the big blast of air things. If I wanted a blast of air to dry my hands, I'd go to an alter­nate universe where everyone loves to dry their hands with a blast of air, but unfortunately in this alter­nate universe, everyone eats noth­ing but garlic bread and is boring. That's the point I'm trying to make. If you like the blast of air, you are boring. 
This is off-topic, but if you are reading this in the dining hall and you are one of those people who likes to walk really slowly in front of me when I'm trying to get around, one day I'm going to pour milk down your back. 
Our forefathers probably thought advanced robots would give us paper towels in the bathroom, but they could never imagine such a simple and beautiful machine like the infrared dispensers. With one wave of the hand, it not only sends you a piece of paper towel, you have also inadvertently flicked a moderate amount of water off your hands, essentially pre-drying your hands for paper towels. If you have noticed this before, I bet you are a happier person for it. 
So get happy about these dis­pensers. When you come out of the bathroom, tell the card swipers how nice it was in there. Especially tell the nice one who looks at your card and says your name. That makes me feel good. If you are reading this, lady who goes the extra mile and says everyone's name, that's cool. If not, it would be nice if someone could bring this column to her attention. 
Contact Adam Fairholm at afairhol@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

Friday, October 7, 2005
The Observer+ PAGE 2 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT FAMOUS PERSON WOULD YOU LIKE TO COME TO CAMPUS? WHY? 





ever. 
IN BRIEF 

The 13th annual American Cancer Society Great Lakes Symposium will be held today from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. at McKenna Hall. Titled "Cellular and Molecular Mechanisms of Cancer," the event is open to the public. 
Bernd Sturmfels, professor of mathematics and computer science at the University of California at Berkeley, will give a lecture titled "Algebraic Statistics for Computational Biology" at 5:30 p.m. today in Hayes-Healy Hall. 
Jose Miguel Insulza, secre­tary general of the Organization of American States, will be the keynote speaker at a conference titled "Democratic Governance in Latin America" at 4:45 p.m. today in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. 
"Wings," written by Arthur Kopit and directed by Mark Pilkinton, will play at 7:30p.m. today and Saturday and at 
2:30 p.m. Sunday at the Decio Mainstage Theatre. The play is presented by the Department of Film, Television, and Theatre. Tickets are $12 for the general public, $10 for faculty and staff, $10 for seniors and $8 for students. 
The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team will play Connecticut at 7 p.m. Saturday at Alumni Field. 
The Blue/Gold Hockey Game will take place at 7:05 p.m. Saturday in the Joyce Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 68 LOW 45 

HIGH LOW 

Tara Makowski Tim Roats Andy Martin Peter Privon Catherine Twetten John Park and Kelly Czaja 
junior sophomore freshman freshman senior juniors Sarin Alumni O'Neill Pasquerilla Zahm East
Badin Breen Phillips "The pope, "Wesley Willis, "Robin "Fire it in, 
because wasn't to be raised Williams. We "Brett Favre. pal." "Jason Lewis he supposed to from the dead need to ease He's the best from Sex and teach here?" and play at everyone's day quarterback 
the City, Legends." a little while because he's we're working beautiful. " hard." 

Church youth swallow live goldfish 
FLORENCE, Ala. -The First Assembly of God Church has a Fear Factor ministry that lets youths swallow live goldfish in order to teach them about fear. 
"We need to be realistic about what the Bible says about fear and not be afraid to share our faith in school," youth minister Anthony Martin told the TimesDaily in a story Thursday. "We can't let that fear rule our lives." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
CLAIRE KELLEY!The Observer 
Rachel Murphy, left, Bill Jenista, center, and Michael Kelley, members of Notre Dame's Bagpipe Band, practice outside LaFortune Thursday night. 
OFFBEAT 
The winner is ... fake dog testicle creator 
BOSTON -Gregg Miller mortgaged his home and maxed out his credit cards to mass produce his invention -prosthetic testicles for neutered dogs. 
What started 10 years ago with an experiment on an unwitting Rottweiler named Max has turned into a thriving mail-order business. And on Thursday night Miller's efforts earned him a dubious yet strangely coveted honor: the Ig Nobel Prize for medicine. 
TODAY 
a:: 

"Considering my par­ents thought I was an idiot when I was a kid, this is a great honor," he said. "I wish they were alive to see it." 
The Ig Nobels, given at Harvard University by 
· Annals of Improbable Research magazine, cele­brate the humorous, cre­ative and odd side of sci­ence. Miller has sold more than 150,000 of his Neuticles, more than dou­bling his $500,000 invest­ment. The silicone implants come in differ­ent sizes, shapes, weights and degrees of firmness. 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
w 
::1: 
!;;: 

3: w 
...J 
ct 


(.) 

0 

HIGH 55 HIGH 60 HIGH 65
..... 
LOW 40 LOW 38 LOW 42 

40 32 
Friday, October 7, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Student-run Relay for Life w-ill support cancer research 
Relay during high school. "I hope to motivate the dorm 
By COLLEEN SHULA 
Hohrs said he will make sure to show their support for peo­
News Writer 
that a member from the ple who are lighting and have 
Stanford team is walking fought cancer," Siegfried team 
It's no surprise to see stu­around the track coordinator dents pulling all-nightnrs at this at all times, Terence Merritt timn of year in preparation for although he will "Everyone [who's] said. midterms, but a diffnrnnt kind do plenty of The Helay will
in it wants to be
of all-nighter will take plaen walking himself. kick off with a red
there and has a
this Friday. Notre Dame carpet walk up to This wenknnd marks the third students and good time doing it." Stepan Center. annual Helay for l.ifn sponsornd faculty as well Opening cere­by tho American Cancer Soeioty as area families monies will begin at
Amanda Flynn 
Club of Notre Dame. form teams to 6:30 p.m. with an 
Lewis team captain
l'artieipants will walk around participate in invocation and wel­tlw Stepan Contnr track from 6 the event. As of coming remarks. 
p.m. Friday until 10 a.m. Wednesday, 65 Distinguished mem­Saturday. tnams were signed up for the bers of the Notre Dame com­
l.ast year the nvnnt attracted Helay. munity, including University 1.:~00 partieipants and raised Each team member pays a President Father John Jenkins, $102,000, said He lay eo-chair $10 registration fee and col­University Provost Thomas Den l>ne Sterling, whose goal is l(~cts donations that are given to Burish and former Notre Dame to raisn a minimum of$100,000 the American Cancer Society. quarterback Ron Powlus, will this ynar. Thursday night, the At the relay, teammates walk in be in attendance. Belay Wnb site n~portnd a total shifts around the track from the The night's events will include slightly over $33,000. start of the event Saturday a silent auction, pumpkin con­
Stanford sophomore Chris evening to the closing cere-test, musical entertainment, Hohrs was in the monies the next karaoke singing, hayrides and a lead Tuesday for morning. luminaria ceremony. The Relay
''I've seen cancer
money raisnd at "Everyone will conclude Saturday morning Notre Damn. lie ajJect so many Iwho's) in it with awards, an announcement· said he colleeted wants to be of the grand total, a musical
lives ofpeople I 
about $3,400 of there and has a performance by violinist Allis
know."

Stanford's $3,700. good time doing Tweed-Kent and a concluding 
''I've seen cancer it," Lewis team lap around the Stepan track. afl'nct so many lives Chris Rohrs captain Amanda A number of other Notre of poople I know, Flynn said. Dame fundraisers are also col­
sophomore

and it hit elose to Many students lecting money for the American home for me take the initia­Cancer Society. Volunteers are recnntly, so I felt I needed to do tive to enlist members to repre­gathering quarters to line the what I could to help," said sent the different dorms on track this weekend and selling Hohrs, who was involved in campus. items ranging .from wristbands 
research University." The second stage of promo­
Research 
tion -to be completed by continued from page I early spring 2006, Jacobs said -will be a more expansive involved in research. version of the "opportunities 
"Thn Provost's Office is by academic departments" tab. studying the nxtent to which Students will be able to search undnrgraduate research is cur­that Web site by keyword, and rently taking place, investigat­individual professors can add ing in what areas student specific information about cur­dnrnand outstrips available rent research projects. opportunities, and exploring "Professors can go online what resourens could be lever­and post a description of that aged to strategically seed project that would appear to gn~ater resnarch opportunities be almost like an ad," Jacobs for undergraduates," Jacobs said. said. Stage 3 will involve collabo­
.Jacobs stressnd the benefits ration with the library to host of undergraduate research as a Web space where selected allowing students to pursue undergraduate research proj­novel lines of inquiry. ects will be displayed. Such 
"In my own experience examples may include a senior
000 

bdng involved with this kind of thesis as a word document or a work is one of the more collection of jpeg images from authentic ways of learning an art project. Jacobs said he bneause it presents all the hopes this portion will be com-
richness of pleted by the real problems end of the spring without all the 2006 term. 
000 

"[Research] requires 
answers, he "Whatever
students to think
said. "It requires they [students] students to think creatively about how work in, we creatively about want to find a
we generate new 
how we generate way to archive it
knowledge."

new knowledge." and display it. 
Jacobs laid out Today a lot of a four-stage Dennis Jacobs good work is lost framework for or gathers dust
vice president and 
thn promotion of on a shelf,"
associate provost 
undergraduate Jacobs said. researeh. The "This is a way of first step is a new Web site -making it more publicly avail­undergradreseareh. nd .ed u -able. My hope is that it will that has been live since this help more students think about week. being involved in undergradu­
Thn Wnb site lists funding ate research." and mentoring opportunities The final promotional step available to students in four plans for a University-wide dimensions: internships, research and creativity fair to resnarch and travel grants, fel­exhibit undergraduate lowships and opportunities by research. Jacobs said these academic departments. displays would take place by 
"My hope is that students department, noting that there will visit this site early and would not be one comprehen­oftnn," Jacobs said. sive display time or location. 
lin also stressed that the Web llowever, he said all colleges sitn could bn valuable for and departments could allow prospective students to learn for student presentations over that "when thny come to Notre a several week period. Damn. thny are f~ntering a "llopefully we can make some attempt at this by spring 2006," he said. 
Jacobs said his office is cur­rently attempting to determine where undergraduate research experiences are not as preva­lent and to find ways to increase funding in those areas. 
"I understand that opportu­nities are not uniformly avail­able to students in all majors 
oo· 
certain areas have more opportunities than others," he said. "Where it is not happen­ing [we] will work to see if there are ways to seed oppor­tunities." 
Arts and Letters 
Gretchen Heydams-Schils, director of the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, said the College of Arts and Letters is at the forefront of sponsoring undergraduate research. 
"The College of Arts and Letters is ahead of the game at this point," she said. 
Reydams-Schils directs the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program (UHOP), a college funding agency that provides grants for undergrad­uates to travel to conferences, conduct their original research, travel to undertake research, or stay in South Bend for the summer to work on research projects with a professor. 
Interim grants of up to $1,500 provide support for conducting original research or conference travel, while the summer grants provide $1,200 per month for up to three months to permit students to earn income while assisting a professor with summer research or to travel to con­duct research during the sum­mer. 
The 2004 Dean's Report said UHOP funded 103 student grants for a total of $145,221 during the 2004-05 academic year. The Heport notes that this total does not include some students who are sup-and chemo caps to mini-golf passes. Physics professor Ikaros Bigi is offering tutoring in physics, math, history, German and the history of art in exchange for a $15 donation for each hour. 


Some businesses outside of Notre Dame, like the Hoseland Pizza Hut, donated a portion of each customer's bill on four days in September to the American Cancer Society. 
The American Cancer Society's Helay for Life has three million partieipants in 4,200 communities across the 
U.S. who will raise millions of dollars in this year alone. Proceeds from these events support cancer research, spreading the word, political lobbying for cancer issues and support for victims and sur­vivors. 
Contact Colleen Shula at cshula@nd.edu 
ported by faculty grants through such agencies as the National Science Foundation. A survey of undergraduate research revealed that 15 per­cent of Arts and Letters stu­dents participated in a research project in 2004-05, the Dean's Report said. 
Reydams-Schils said the College made undergraduate research a priority after a report on undergraduate edu­cation at research universities called the Boyer Heport was released in 1998. 
The report stressed that uni­versities could do a better job of funding and promoting undergraduate research. She said UROP grant applications have increased significantly in the last three years. 
"(Undergraduate research] is part of a 
stronger connections between teaching and research, to make faculty think about how to bring research into teaching and undergraduates to see how research relates to teaeh­ing." 
She also said research and teaching do not need to be at odds with each other. 
"I think it is wrong to see teaching and research pitted against each other. The best research is done in connection with teaching concerns," she said. 
Mark Hoche, dean of the College of Arts and Lntters, said students are also involved in non-UHOP-funded "research" projects like a sen­ior thesis or an art exhibition. He said 14 out of 18 depart­ments within the College cur­
rently have an 

major devel­honors program
"Undergraduate
opmental ini­that involves a tiative on the research brings the major paper or part of the col­senior thesis.
teaching and research
lege," she Hoche said
together. " 
said. "We are undergraduate also looking at research will con­endowed con­Gretchen Reydams-Schlls tinue to be a pri­tributions [to ority for the
director
provide addi­College and is, in
Institute for Scholarship 
tional fund­fact, the number 
in the Liberal Arts
ing]." one developmen-
Reydams-Schils said in addition to a Web site that explains the UROP program, her office is working on further ways to promote th~ opportunities. 
A presentation from past UROP winners will be held Nov. 3, and Heydams-Schils said she speaks to individual classes or departments when­ever asked by an instructor or department chair. The College is also working with the College's Office of Publicity, News and Information to pro­mote UHOP through a video. 
Heydams-Schil stressed the importance of research for undergraduates. 
"Undergraduate research brings the teaching and research together," she said. "It allows one to make 
tal priority. 

"There will be more funding with or without Father Jenkins' largesse," he said. 
Since only 18 percent of UHOP applications were accepted last year, Hoche said he would like to increase the number of funded summer grants. lie also said some indi­vidual departments have also received endowments that can fund undergraduate research. 
Hesearch involvement, Hoche said, is an essential part of undergraduate education. 
"Those experiences tend to be the most formative and memorable experiences of their undergraduate days," he said. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 7, 2005 
request was made [Wednesday] Fowlkes attributed much of "It worked fine for the first While the increase to 45 to our service provider and we the problem to the increasing few weeks but it just got satu­Megabits this year will certainly 
Internet 

are waiting for information popularity of Web sites such as rated like our other lower speed speed up the College's Internet from them." iTunes, which allows circuits," connection, Fowlkes said he
continued from page 1 

The slow Internet connection students to legally Fowlkes anticipates having to add an the students presented an intel­is not a result of any internal download music files said. additional 45 Megabits in the
"It worked fine for the 
ligent and honest argument to network off the Due to next couple of years.
first few weeks but it
us about their needs." problems, Internet. financial "We needed bandwidth badly 
Updated technology, Fowlkes Fowlkes "On campus all the Such files fill just got saturated like c o n not only for student Internet said, is considered a "core serv­said. network connections enormous our other lower speed straints, traffic but also for new tech­ice" of the College and is critical 0 n amounts of Fowlkes nologies that are coming down
are brand new and circuits.''
to academic life. campus space and did not the road and for the library's 
Fowlkes is hoping the project all the very fast." drastically believe he need for expansion of electronic will be completed by the end of network slow down Keith Fowlkes would be resources," Fowlkes said. December, but said he was connec­the system. director able to sig­Communication with the
Keith Fowlkes 
Information Technology
unable to provide a specific tions are Information nificantly College's foreign campuses in

director
date. He also said when it does b r a n d Technology increase Italy and Ireland should also occur students will see an new and Information Technology did anticipate the band­improve with the faster connec­immediate improvement in con­very fast," problems with the width in the near future. But by tion, Fowlkes said. nection speed. Fowlkes said. "It is the connec­College's connection capacity cutting back on internal operat­
"We are in the process of get­tion of our network to the and slightly increased it over ing costs, the College was able Contact Megan O'Neil at ting [a] quote," Fowlkes said. "A Internet that is slow." the summer, Fowlkes said. to come up with the money. onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

Mass 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) assistant director Phil Johnson served as a lector and delivered an introduction about the increased respect given to those in uniform since the 2001 attacks. 
"This was an event that made us more mindful of those many who serve and make risks every day," Johnson said. 
John Antonucci, the opera­tions chief of the University's fire department, also served as a lector. Although the first three Blue Masses were held primari­ly in remembrance of the vic­tims of Sept. 11, Antonucci said the Mass has developed to demonstrate the gratitude of the community for law enforce­ment and emergency workers. 
"Now as we move away from the event, we move the focus of the event to being a celebration of life and to honor those who protect us every day," Antonucci said. 
NDSP, the University Fire Department and South Bend fire fighting and police depart­ments attended the Mass, as well as some police officers and fire fighters from around the country. 
University President Father John Jenkins presided at the Mass, which he called a "signifi­cant ND tradition." He wel­comed the opportunity to "honor and appreciate and thank police officers, fire fight­ers, and emergency personnel in our community." 
In his homily, Warner hon­ored the members of the police and fire departments and emer­gency personnel who "place the common good above all." 
Warner called those in uni­form "men and women of the beatitudes." He paid special tribute to the families of the men and women in uniform and their unique sacrifice. 
Warner asked Mass attendees to remember especially the vic­tims of terrorism, members of the armed forces and all those who have died in the course of duty. 
The Blue Mass tradition closely resembles the long­standing Catholic tradition of the Red Mass, a special service for lawyers, judges and politi­cians that is held at the begin­ning of the judicial year. Cardinal McCarrick of Washington, D.C. celebrated a Red Mass with the Supreme Court justices. 
Notre Dame celebrated its own Red Mass Oct. 2 with lawyers and judges from sur­rounding communities. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 




IPIIDTALKSM 
®
THI ITIIT WAY T 
® 

• 
speedt_?lkw 
Unlimited SpeedTalk Minutes Walkie-talkie-style service 
• 
1000 Anytime Minutes 

• 
$49.95 per month 

• 
AQLii' Instant Messenger~ service-FREE Trial 

• 
Buy 1 and get up to 3 LG UX4750 phones FREE (with 2-year contracts and mail-in rebates) 


·~US. Cellular 
1-888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.COM 
Offer valid on two-year service agreement·on local and national plans of $49.95 or higher. All service agreements subject to an early terminati9n fee. Credit approval required. $30 activa­tiOn fee. $15 eqUipment change fee. Roammg charges, fees, surcharges. overage charges and taxes apply. $0.96 Regulatory Cost Recovery Fee charge applies. This is not a tax or govern­ment-required charge. Local network coverage and reliability may vary. Usage rounded up to the next full minute. Use of service constitutes acceptance of our terms and conditions. Use of the AOL• Instant Messenger"' service mobile application requires easyedge''' data services on the account. The length of the validity for the AOL~ Instant Messenger"" service Free Trial shall not exceed more than one full day's time. Buy one get three free only valid if a two-year service agreement is purchased for SpeedTalk service on all handsets and requires mail-in rebate per line. Promotional phone is subject to change. Allow 10-12 weeks for rebate processing. SpeedTalk: SpeedTalk capable handset required. SpeedTalk calls may only be made with other U.S. Cellular SpeedTalk subscribers. SpeedTalk is only available in U.S. Cellular's enhanced services coverage areas. While you are on a SpeedTalk call. your wireless calls will go direct­ly to voicemail. If you roam outside of U.S. Cellular's enhanced services coverage area you will not be able to place a SpeedTalk call. SpeedTalk is a proprietary service mark of U.S. Cellular. Other restrictions apply. See store for details. Limited time offer. ©2005 U.S. Cellular Corporation. 

----------------..., 



ORLD & NATION 
Friday, October 7, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Draft constitution disbibuted in Iraq 
BAGIIDAD -Hnsidents of one of Baghdad's most insurgent-hit nnighborhoods received copies of Iraq's drall eonstilulion Thursday, though some rnfusml to take it and some shop­kiH~pnrs balk1HI at passing it out, fearing reprisals by militanL<; dntnrmirwd to wrnek llw erudal Od. 15 re((~rendum. 
Insurgents eontinuml t.lwir wave of violence with attacks in and around thn capital, includ­ing llw suidde bombing of a minibus, that killed at h•ast 20 Iraqis and an American soldier. 
Despite tlw bloodshNI, Iraqis in the southern Baghdad rwighborhood of Dora had their first look at tlw docunwnl they will vote on in ninn days, though distribution of thn U.N.-printnd blue booklets -nrnblazorwd "The mnslilution is in your hands" -got oil' to a slow start olsn­wlwrn. 
"If WI' likP it, we will voln 'yns.' II' wn don't, we'll say 'no,"' said Lamia I>hyab, a Shiitn woman in a hl'ad-to-ton veil. 
Bali restaurants previously warned 
BAI.I -H1~staurants on a Bali bnaeh hit by tPrrorisL<; WIWP wanwd a month ago that they c.oulrl lw targets following t.lw dismvnry ol' a partially madn bomb at a nnarby hotnl, but vii­lag~• lnaders dnlayl'd plans to bolster sneurity, an ollidal said Thursday. 
C:a((~s along Jimbanp1 Bay worn told in August to station guards and to cheek bags and ears Pnlnring tlw an~a. but tlw village decid1~d to wait until allnr a llindu holiday 1:olnbrah~d on thn n•sort island Wl'drwsday -((Jur days al'tnr th1~ dPadly (kt. I attacks by thrnn suicide bornbnrs, poli1:P C:apl. D. Dharmada told The Associated 
J'rPSS. 
"II' thosp nwasurns had bnnn implmnm1tnd. this attack probably wouldn't havn happnned," he said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Rove to give additional testimony 
WASIIINGI'ON -l'rnsidential confidant Karl Hove will testily ((w a ((Jurth time be((Jre the ((~d­eral grand jury investigating tho leak of a CIA ollinw's identity even though prosecutors have warrwd Uwy can no longer guarantee he will esmpn indirtnwnt. lawyers said Thursday. 
Hove's otTer was accnptod by Special l'rosenrtor Patrick FitzgPrald in tho last wm~k as Llw ~,rrand jury's wraps up iL'> work and doddes whetlwr HoVI\ Vko President Chonoy's chief of stall' I. Lnwis "Smoler" Libby or any othor prnsi­dmltial aides should face criminal charges. 
Hovo's lawyer said Thursday that Fitzgorald has <L<;sured him that lw IHL'i mado no decisions yet on eharges and that his client has not rnwivnd a so-callnd target letter, usually tho last st1~p bnf(Jrn a grand jury indietmnnt. 
Bush prepares for bird flu pandemic 
WA"iliJNGTON -President Bush summoned vw:dnn rnanufaduwrs to a White I louse meot­ing Friday, hoping to personally boost the rickety industry amid inernasing f(mrs of a worldwide outbrnak of bird flu. It's tho latest in a flurry of pn~parations ((Jr a possible pandomie afior eriti­dsm of the government's rnsponse to Hurricane Katrina. 
This month. vaccine maker Sanoli-Pasteur lwgins tlw l'irst mass produetion of a new vaedrw that promisns to protect against bird llu. producing $100 million worth of inocula­tions for a governnwnt stockpile. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Water company invites scrutiny 
INDIANAPOI.IS -Veolia Water Indianapolis ollidals said today thny would nevor intentional­ly violall~ water-quality or operational rules and nxpmt thn mmpany will withstand any lovol of scrutiny. It ww; thnir first public eommenl'i since fnderal ollieials narlinr this wnnk eonlirmnd a criminal investigation of the company's opera­tions. 
Company President Tim llewitt said the Fnmch-owrwd mmpany-whkh has a 20-year mntrad to run the city's wator system under tho country's largost public-private partnership -IHL'i every intention of making the Indianapolis opnration succossful. 
Islamic terror empire growing 
Bush warns that radicals seek to expand their force; 10 al-Qaida plots foiled 
Associated Press 
WASI-IINGTON­
President Bush sought 
Thursday to rally flagging 
public support for tho 
war in Iraq, aceusing mil­
itants of seoking to nstab­
lish a "radical Islamic 
empiro" with Iraq as the 
base. lie said tho U.S. 
and its allies had foiled 
10 plots by tho ai-Qaida 
terror network in the 
past four years. 
In rnmarks dearly aimod at those seeking a withdrawal of U.S. troops, Bush warnod of continuing danger, saying Islamic radicals are being sheltered by "allies of' convnninnce like Syria and Iran." 
"Thoro's always a temp­tation in the middlo of a long struggle to seek the quiet life, to nseape the duties and problems or tho world and to hopo the nnomy grows weary of fanaticism and tired ol' rnurdnr," Bush said in a sp1~ech beforo the National Endowment for Domoeracy. 
"Wn will keop our nerve and wo will win that vie­lory," he said. 

Polls show declining American support for the war that has thus far claimed tho lives of more than 1,940 membnrs of the U.S. military. Bush's policy faces a crucial tost lion for Iran or any other the presidont basod his "dirty bomb" in a U.S. in Iraq's Oct. 15 referen­country interfering in remarks on remains elas­city. Padilla, whose plot dum on a new constitu­Iraq," Blair said at a sifind. never materialized. was tion. a vote that Bush has news conference with MeCiollan mentionod designated an enemy said terrorists will try to Iraqi President Jalal the conviction of lyman combatant by Bush and derail. Talabani. Faris, a Columbus, Ohio, is being hold without 
Asked about the presi­Iran's ambassador in truck driver who authori­criminal ehargo at a dent's singling out of Iran London,Seyed Mohammad ties said plotted attacks Navy brig in South and Syria as "allies of llossein Adeli, said the on the Brooklyn Bridge Carolina. convenionce," White charges were not support­and a central Ohio shop­"Wn have bonn suecnss­!louse spokesman Scott ed by evidence and that ping mall. Administration ful in disrupting e1~rtain McClellan said, "They "we are against any kind officials have previously plots. Some have bonn continue to move in the of action which might claimed success in break­made public or are in the wrong direction. jeopardize or destroy the ing up terror cells in New public domain, like 
Likewise, British Prime stabilization process of York, Oregon, Virginia Hichard Hnid," Attorney Minister Tony Blair said Iraq." and Florida. General Alberto Gonzales in London that explosive At the White House, lie also mentioned Jose told reportms. "Otlwrs are devices th.at have killed McClellan was asked Padilla, a former Chicago classified." Attempted U.S.-Ied troops were simi­about Bush's reference to gang member who con­shoe-bombnr Hichard lar to those used by the 10 foiled terror attacks, verted to Islam and Heid is sorving a life sen­Iranian-linked militant including three in the allogedly plotted with top loncn al'tor a failod try to group Hozbollah. United States. lie said al-Qaida commandors to blow up an American 
"There is no justifica-some of the information detonate a radioactive Airlines flight in 2001. 


New York increases subway security 
seriously. will spare no llXJHmsn. We havn 
Associated Press 

"I've spoken with top-level authorities incroasnd our police prnsnncn on our 
NEW YORK -City ollidals stepped in Washington, and tho threat, while subways." up mass transit security Thursday, say­specific in terms of location, dons not Some commuters took tlw throat in ing they had received a erodible thmat have the highnst Jewel of erodibility or stride. that New York's subway system could be corroboration," Sen. Charles Schumer, Paul Hadtke, 45, of lloboknn, N.J., the target of a tnrrorist attack in coming D-N.Y., said in a statement. said hn had !ward similar warnings days. "Nonetheless, in a post 9/11 world you before and f(Jund it hard to take them all 
Mayor Michael Bloomberg said the cannot be too carnful." seriously. threat originated overseas, and was the New York Police Commissioner Hay "Unless it's something dramatie that's most specific terrorist throat city officials Kelly urged the public to report suspi­happening, l'vo got to go to work," had received to date. No one in New cious people or activities. Police planned Hadtke said al'tnr getting oil' a subway York has boon arrested or detained, he to look through bags, briefcases, baby train at Penn Station. lin said thn only said. strollers and luggage in a large-scale travel habit. he is changing is trying not 
A law enlorcomcnt oiTidal, who spoke search of the mass transit system. to makn eye contaet with police ollkers on condition of anonymity, said the "We have done and will continue to do so they won't soareh his bag. threat is "specific to place, time and everything wo can to protect this city," An nstimatod 4.5 million passnngnrs method" and involved a bombing. Bloomberg said, adding that he planned ride the Nnw York subway on an aver­
Some officials in Washington to take the subway home Thursday age weekday. The system h<L'> moro than appeared to be taking the threat less night. "We will spare no resource, we 468 subway stations. 
----------------~~------------------~-----­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 7, 2005 

Siegfried 
continued from page 1 
sports games. 
'These last two years his ALS got really bad ... but he would still come with the family and watch the interhall football games," Carey said. 
Siegfried rector Father John Conley said Siegfried, who attended interhall baseball games as well and until recently hosted annual dinners for Siegfried residents, truly cared about the dorm. 
"I think he took a great deal of pleasure knowing that the family name was associated with a dor­mitory on campus because of what residence halls 
"He took special 
mean to Notre sent the picture Dame students," pride in having a and football Conley said. "He residence hall bear along with a took special pride Siegfried Hall jer­
the family name.,
in having a resi­sey with a "big dence hall bear No. 1 on it" to the family name Father John Conley Siegfried as a ... it's not the Siegfried rector Christmas pres­
same as someone taking two gradu­ate classes in Mendoza and seeing the Siegfried name on a plaque on the wall." 
Carey recalled a "little initia­tion" Siegfried gave to incoming Siegfried freshmen in front of Main Building. 
"[ALS] had already started to take a toll on his body, but he has addressed the freshmen the last two years," Carey said. "This year his son Terrell [a sec­ond year Notre Dame law stu­dent] read that on behalf of his father." 
Siegfried was chairman of the board of the NORDAM Group, an international aerospace manu­facturer. He received an hon­orary doctor of law degree from Notre Dame in May 1995. 
For the last four years, Conley said Siegfried Hall has donated all funds raised from its signa­ture spring event, the Rambler Scrambler, to the Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Association in Siegfried's honor. 

"I believe the family is also going to designate some addi­tional charities," Conley said. 
After Siegfried Hall won the interhall football title two years ago, a game that Siegfried attended, Carey said the dorm took an extra step to thank the "avid sports fan" for his support. 
Following the game, the dorm contacted Joe Montana and arranged for Montana to meet up with the team. 
"We basically took a big panoramic picture of the Ramblers and Joe," Carey said. 
"We got a foot­
ball signed." 
The dorm then 
ent, Carey said. 
Siegfried is sur­

vived by wife Milano and children Tray, Hastings, Meredith, Milannie, Terrell and Bailey. 
A Mass of the Resurrection will be celebrated in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 2 p.m. on Tuesday, followed by the Rite of Committal in Cedar Grove Cemetery. 
At 4 p.m. the University will hold a reception with the Siegfried family in the atrium and Siegfried Building of the Mendoza College of Business. All friends of the family are invited to attend. 
Kate Antonacci contributed to this report. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

As seen on 
Q) 
PBS 

Tickets available by phone: (574) 235 9190 or (800) 537-6415 On line: www.MorrisCenter.org 
We know why.!'<>" fly AmerlcanAirllnes

PERFORMING ARTS CENTER *SOUTH BEND, IN Alu:om The official airline of Celtic Woman 
r----------------------------------------------~---------------­
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Friday, October 7, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

10,287.10 -30.26
}ones ,A 

Up: Same: Down: Composite VolumE 1,081 ISO 2,188 2,821,117,280 
v 

AMEX 1,651.64 -32.41 NASDAQ 2_10X4.08 -'18. 94 NYSE 7.399.66 -36.70 S&PSOO I, 191.49 -4.90 
NIKKEI(Tokyo) 13,315.68 -43.sl.J FTSE IOO(London) 5,372.40 -55.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ)  -1.32  -0.51  38.25  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.24  +0.06  24.73  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.29  -0.31  B.n  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  +1.31  +0.23  17.73  
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU)  -2.22  -0.05  2.2(  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.15  +0.07  45.87  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.11  +0.05  43.66  
5-YEARNOTE  -0.07  -0.03  42.29  
3-MONTH BILL  +0.63  +0.22  35.12  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.43  61.36  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +5.70  475.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.03  96.40  
Exchan  Rates  
YEN  113.4850  
EURO  0.8214  
POUND  0.5628  
CANADIAN$  1.1803  

IN BRIEF 

Sex drug subsidies to hurricane relief 
WASIIINCTON -Buying your own Viagra will bocornn an aet of altruism under a !louse-passed bill that pays for hurricane relief with federal funds now devoted to Medicare and Medieaid eoverage for ernetilo dysfunetion drugs. 
Hop. Nathan Dna!, H-Ga., sponsor of the bill, said tho govornrnent would save $690 million over live ynars by prohibiting the two govorn­nwnt lwalth eare programs from subsidizing prnseriptions li1r sexual pnrlilrmance drugs. 
The morwy will bn used to provido $500 mil­lion in fednral unemployment funds to hurri­cano-alli~etml states to help them pay bonefits to out-of-work peopln: $400 million to Louisiana, $H5 million to Mississippi and $15 million to Alabama. 
Thn bill. passnd by voicn votn Thursday, also extends several health programs that assist low­income families nationwide. 
I>nal has previously backnd legislation to end /i~dnral aid lilr impotence drugs, saying taxpay­nrs should not be rnquired to pay for a drug that does not dotormine life or death and is often used fi1r rncrnational purposns. 
Cancer vaccine I 00 percent effective 
An expnrimental vaccine to prevent the most common forms of cervical cancer proved 100 percent effective in a two-year test on more than 10,000 girls and women, drug maker Merck & Co. says. 
Merck is hoping to win Food and Drug Administration approval for the vaccine, Gardasil. and put it on the market as soon as late 2006. It would be the first vaecine to prnvnnt cervical cancer, a disease caused almost exelusively by a highly com­mon snxually transmitted virus called the human papilloma virus. or IIPY. 
Doctors expect the vaccine to bn routinely ofTernd to girls -and boys, too, because thny can sprnad the virus to their partnnrs -bnforn they become sexually active, thou!{h the practice is certain to run into opposition from conservatives and religious groups. 
"I sne this as a phenomenal break­through," said Dr. (;Ioria Bachmann, direc­tor of the Women's llealth Institute at Holwrt Wood Johnson Mndical School in Nnw Brunswick, N.J. 
Stocks fall on third straight day 
Rebound Jails as Wall Street loses ground due to chronic economic worries 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK ~ Chronic economic worries stirted Wall Street's attempt at a rnbound Thursda"y as stocks fell for a third straight session despitn a solid outlook at General Electric Co. and modest but better-than-expected retail sales reports. 
General Elnctric, a widely held Dow Jones industrial closely watched on Wall Street, said it was on track for another strong quarter and inereased its stock buyback program. Encouraging sales at Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and other retailers also helped the market post early gains. 
But the marknt, which had started tho day high­er, retreated after Dallas fed President Hichard Fisher reiterated his belief that inflation was rising near the high end of the Fed's comfort zone. Some investors also awaited the government's key employment report, due Friday and expected to detail job losses from the Gulf Coast hurri­canes. 

Those long-term chal­lenges prompted investors to abandon some of the market's more popular holdings, pushing stocks lower through the ses­sion. A continued dropoff "You've still got an ero­focused Nasdaq compos­Another sharp drop in in oil prices caused a sell­sion in consumer confi­ite index dropped 1 H.94, crude prices helped buoy off in the high-flying dence that could lead to or 0.9 percent, to stocks earlier in the ses­energy sector, and small­a serious erosion in con­2,084.08, and the sion, with a barrel of cap and technology sumer spending, at the Standard & Poor's 500 light crude quoted at stocks also suffered as same time you have the index lost 4.90, or 0.41 $61.36, down $1.4:~. on investors moved into (Federal Heserve) still percent, to 1,191.49. tho Nnw York Mercantile larger, more established hiking interest rates. It's Bonds lost ground Exchange. llowever, with companies. a hard market to buy alongside stocks, with first-time jobless claims 
"This is certainly not into." the yield on the 10-year rising to 390,000 last bad, with retail sales OK The Dow fell 30.26, or Treasury note rising to week, an increase of and oil falling, but 0.29 percent, to 4.39 percent from 4.36 21,000 from the previous there's still a lot of 10,287.10, adding to a percent late Wednesday. week, investors were uncertainty out there," loss of 218.12 over the The dollar weakened increasingly nervous said Joseph Battipaglia, previous two sessions. against other major cur­about employment in the chief investment officer Broader stock indica­rencies, while gold prices wakn of llurricanes at Ryan Beck & Co. tors also fell. The tech-rose. Katrina and Hita. 


Jobless claims increase to 363,000 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -The number of people thrown out of work from Hurricanes Katrina and Hita rose to 363,000 last week with more bad news expected Friday when the government releases its unemploy­ment report for September. 
The unemployment report could show as many as 400,000 job losses from Katrina in what would be the starkest sign yet of the economic devastation from the country's most expensive natural disaster. 
"We arc going to gnt a lot of ugly data in the next few weeks as we see the full e!Teet of these storms," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com 
Zandi said he was looking for the September employment report to show a loss of around 350,000 jobs because of Katrina, which hit near New Orleans on Aug. 29. The num­ber of people filing applications for unemployment benefits was still ris­ing the week of Sept. 12, when the Labor Department conducted its survey for the monthly jobs report. 

Zandi said the loss of 350,000 jobs in the hurricane areas would be offset somewhat by a gain of 150,000 jobs in the rest of the coun­try, leaving total payroll employ­ment falling by a still sizable 200,000. 
In August, before the storms hit, payroll jobs rose by 169,000. Jobs haven't fallen in more than two years. 
The consensus among economists surveyed is for jobs to declinn by 150,000 and for the unmnpfoymnnt rate to rise from a four-year low of 
4.9 percent in August to 5.1 per­cent. But analysts said predieting this month's data is extremely 
tricky given that the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which compiles the report, faeed great difTiculty doing its normal surveys in the hurricane areas. 
"!low do you survey pnopln who are displaeed? flow do you survey businesses in Nnw Orlnans if their phones don't work or they are not there'?" asked David Wyss, ehief economist at Standard & Poor's in New York. 
The report on jobless claims released Thursday showed that claims nationwidn rosn by 21.000 to 390,000, signifiwntly highnr than neonomists had bonn forneastin){. or the total. 74,000 wern attributed to jobs lost because of thn hurricarws. Most of that number nd"ltH·tnd Katrina although for the lirst time claims rnlated to Hita, whieh struck Texas on Sept. 24, also showed up in the data. 
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Friday, October 7, 2005 
Ind. sex offender arrested out of state 
Associated Press 
FARGO, N.D. -A convicted sex offender from Indiana named on the FBI's Most Wanted Fugitives list has been arrested here. 
William C. Davis, 33, of Wadesville, Ind., 15 miles northwest of Evansville, faces felony charges of molesting three Evansville-area boys and failing to register as a sex offender. 
Davis was arrested on Thursday and taken to the Cass County Jail, where he will await an extradition hearing to return to Indiana. Authorities said he had been wanted on the felony charges for more than a year in both Vanderburgh and Posey coun­ties. 
A picture and details of Davis aired briefly on "The Oprah Winfrey Show" on Tuesday. The TV show focused on convicted sex offenders who victimized chil­dren again. 
Winfrey's production com­pany 1-Iarpo Productions Inc. offered a $100,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of any of the fugitives profiled on the program. 
The profile of Davis prompt­ed a Fargo woman to call another woman about it, said FBI Special Agent Paul McCabe of Minneapolis. 
The second woman went to the Oprah.com Web site to look at Davis' picture. She then called Minneapolis FBI agents about a man she knew as Mark A. Davis, McCabe said. 
"Naturally, from there, we had some investigating to do," he said. 
The FBI investigation con­firmed Davis' background and led agents to Davis' apart­ment at about 4:45 p.m. Thursday. 
"Through a ruse, they were able to get him to come to the door," McCabe said. "He actu­ally denied who he was at first but finally admitted he was William C. Davis." 
Davis had shaved his head and was wearing a leg cast when arrested. 
Fargo police also plan to investigate how long Davis lived in their city and what he was up to. 
"We don't want to be known as a haven for child moles­ters," said Police Chief Chris Magnus. 
Cass County Jail records show Davis said he was unemployed. He listed his mother, Pat Davis, as a con­tact person. 
Davis told authorities he would decline all requests for interviews. 
The latest Indiana charges stem from accusations Davis molested boys from January 2004 to July 2004, according to the FBI's Web site. 
The site, along with the Indiana sex offender registry, says Davis was convicted for two counts of child molesta­tion in January 1992. 
Prison officials released him about 28 months later, and Davis failed to follow Indiana's sex offender regis­tration laws. He disappeared in the summer of 2004, after learning that police in Evansville were looking for him. Local FBI agents investi­gated sightings of Davis, but never located him. 
Indiana authorities asked the FBI to issue a warrant on a federal charge of unlawful flight to avoid prosecution for the latest molestation accusa­tions. 
If convicted, Davis faces between 20 to 50 years on each of five Class A felony counts, two to eight years on each of five Class B felony counts and an enhanced sen­
tence  up  to  38 additional  
years  as  a  repeat sexual  
offender.  

The Evansville Courier & Press reported Vanderburgh County Deputy Prosecutor Donita Farr said Davis was known as the "rubber band man" when he volunteered with a local social agency that offers mentoring programs to children. 
He acquired the title because he made toys out of twisted rubber bands. 
Berkeley Professor Bernd Sturmfels will discuss recent interactions between algebra and statistics and their emerging applications to computational biology. Statistical models of independence and alignments for DNA sequences will be illustrated by means of afictional character, DiaNA, who rolls tetrahedral dice with face labels 'A,' 'C,' 'G' and 'T.' 

Lavv111akers push private screeners 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Law-mak­ers, many of them upset with the performance of the Transportation Security Administration, hope to encourage airports to return to privately employed screen­ers. 
A provision in the Homeland Security spending bill, which was passed by the House Thursday evening, shields air­ports from lawsuits if they switch to private screeners. 
Some airport officials haven't made the switch for fear that they could be sued if terrorists carried out an attack because of something private screeners did or didn't do. 
Rep. Harold Rogers, R-Ky., added the legal protection to the Homeland Security spend­ing bill to give airports the option of using private screen­ers. 
"Private screening -under the watchful eye of the TSA ­would have a lot more flexibil­ity and maneuverability in addressing peak-hour loads and moving screeners around on the clock, rather than a large bureaucracy like the TSA," Rogers said. 
Rep. Peter DeFazio, D-Ore., a member of the House avia­tion subcommittee, thinks pri­vate screeners will weaken airport security. Companies that hire screeners already have some legal protection, he said. 
"If the private screening's so great, why do the private screening companies need the federal government to cap their liability?" DeFazio asked. "Why do the airports want to be exempt from any liability?" 
The switch to TSA screeners came after the Sept. 11 attacks exposed problems with pri­International, estimates there vately employed workers. still are 20 or 30 airports Private screeners have been interested in making the used by five airports as part of switch. a test comparing them with However, he said legal pro­federal screeners at the other tection is only part of the 450 commercial airports. They issue. The other is whether are hired, trained, paid and TSA will allow airports to hire tested to TSA standards. the screening company them­

Rep. John Mica, R-Fla. and selves. Now, the airports have chairman of the House avia­to ask TSA to choose the com­tion subcommittee, pany that pro­said that air passen­vides the gers would be safer "Why do the screening serv­with private screen­ice for them.
airports want to 
ers. "It would be "If those are much more effi­be exempt from the two big cient," he said. any liability?, issues, then one 
A congressional has been nailed investigation found down," van
Rep. Peter DeFazio 
the private screen­Beek said. 
ers performed statis­tically better than the federal screen­ers, though opponents of pri­vate screening say the differ­ence was slight. 
In November, all airports were allowed to apply to switch from government screeners to private screeners. 
Advocates of private screen­ers predicted that dozens of airports would rush to make the switch because of frustra­tion with TSA's staffing deci­sions and procedures. 
But only Elko Regional Airport in Nevada and Sioux Falls Regional Airport have applied to opt out. 
One of the five test airports, San Francisco International Airport, had said it would switch to government screen­ers because it didn't have suf­ficient legal protection. Airport spokesman Michael McCarron said it would keep private screeners if the congressional plan becomes law. 
Steve van Beek, executive vice president of policy for the trade group Airports Council 
D-Ore. 
George Doughty, execu­tive director of 

Lehigh Valley International Airport in Allentown, Pa., says he doesn't see much benefit in having TSA hire a screening company. 
Airports now have half the responsibility for security and the TSA has the other half, he said. "If I'm just going to bring in yet another third party in the process, it doesn't seem to get me anything," he said. 
"Right now we've got a sys­tem in place. It's working," Doughty said. "We could improve on it if we could man­age the screening." 
TSA spokeswoman Carrie Harmon said the agency is pleased the issue appears close to resolution. 
"We know there are a num­ber of airports that have been awaiting resolution of this issue," Harmon said. 
The other four airports that use private screeners are in Rochester, N.Y., Tupelo, Miss., Jackson, Wyo., and Kansas City, Mo. 
Mothers and adolescents needed for study on parenting and mom/child relationships. Informal study entails 2 at home visits lasting 2 hrs or less each and permission to audiotape some reponses. $50 compensation. 
For further information, please email Elizabeth at ewebster@nd.edu or call after 9 

p.m. at 

313-303-4691 

-----------------------, 
Friday, October 7, 2005 The Observer + ENVIRONMENTAL NEWS page 9 
Oyster fartner ponders job outlook 
Associated Press 
OYSTHH BAY. N.Y.-Dave H(dyea and a (:o-worker make sweeping laps up and down a patch of' water in thnir work­boat.. dumping a half'-million lin­gernail-sizml oyster seedlings out. of' plastic buckets into about :w f'ent of' water. 
Tlw oysters take about two ytmrs to grow large enough f'or harvesting, but Htdyoa wonders if' lw'll still b(~ in businnss by tlwn. That's beeause the National Marinn Fisheries Snrviee is eonsidnring adding the l·:astnrn oystnr to the federal list of threatened or endangered spneies, a move that eould dev­astate oystermen like Helyea. 
"Sum th(~ oyster industry is not nearly as big as it used to be, but the oysters anm't going to beeome extinct," Helyea says as he plies waters where Theodore Hoosevelt onee lished and where Billy Joel's mansion sits near the shorn. "And if we manage them properly, it's going to be a thriv­ing farming operation." 
The federal review was prompted in large part by the situation in Maryland's Chesapeake Bay, whieh has seen a dramatic dropoff in oyster numbers. Between the 1930s and 1970s, Maryland's annual oyster harvest ranged between 2 and 4 million bushels a year. Last year, that number dropped to less than 33,000 bushels. 
But the Chesapeake is not the only concern. 
The Fisheries Service, which is part of the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration, said U.S. Atlantic Coast landings of Eastern oysters dropped from 
160.6 million pounds in 1890 to 
2.4 million pounds in 2003 -a trend believed to be driven by overfishing, lost habitats and disease. 

Notre Dame's Department of Film, Television, and 'Theatre presents 



Law-suit filed against Bush administration 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -A coali­tion of 20 environmental groups sued the Bush administration Thursday to block road con­struction, logging and industrial development on more than 90,000 square miles of the nation's last untouched forest<>. 
In the lawsuit, the Sierra Club, National Audubon Society, Greenpeace and other groups ehallenge the U.S. Forest Service deeision earlier this year to repeal President Clinton's 2001 "roadless rule" that protected 
58.5 million acres of undevel­oped national forest. 
"These are the last wild areas of North America, and there is overwhelming public support for their protection from develop­ment," said Kristen Boyles, a staff attorney for Oakland-based Earthjustice, which filed the lawsuit on behalf of the plain­tiff<>. 
The federal lawsuit comes 

about a month al'tor tho attor­neys gmwral li1r California. Nnw Mexieo and Oregon brought a similar legal challengo. Both lawsuit<> allnge tho Bush admin­istration violated li~dnral law by not studying tlw environmental impact<> of rnpnaling tho Clinton rule. 
The U.S. Forest Serviee would not comment becaust~ tlw litiga­tion is pending, said spokes­woman lleidi Valetkeviteh. 
Just before he left oflien in January 2001, Clinton issued a rule banning development and road building on almost one­third of the nation's 192 million acres of national forest land. The move was praised by envi­ronmentalists, but criticized by timber interests. 
The Bush administration repealed the rulp, in May and issued a new poliey that required states to work with Forest Serviee oflidals to devise management plans for individ­ual forest<>. 
Film/Television Director and Co-founder/ Company Director: The Gibson Group, New Zealand 
October 8th, Scdttrcloy 7:00-9:45 p111 
"New Zealand's Jack--of-All-Trades Aesthetics of the #8 Wire: Documentary & Dram<J/Cin<:-ma f.t Television" Browning Cinema, DeBartolo Pe.rforming Art~ Center. Open to publi<'. 
Octobcr9th,SMMday 12:00-2:00plll 
"Small Country...Big Picture: Ne-w Zealand Creative Works for Home and Abroad" Workshop and lunch. 8043 DeBartolo Performing Arts C~nter. Students only. 
f$1UNIVERSITY Of 
MARJE P. DIBARTOlO

o I
CENTER FOR THE PERfOI!MING ARTS ~NOTRE DAME 
Please recycle your Observer. 

page 10 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Par Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 

SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gorrumukkala 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 

WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 63 I-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4'541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DEsK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advert'tsemenrs, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edirors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include comact informacion. 
Qut:stions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday o::.;:~pt during uam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Obscm:r is $100 for one academk y~; $55 for one semester. 
11le Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corro:tion.~ to; 
None Dame, IN 465S6-Q779 'I'hc Observer 
l'criodica.l postage paid at Now: Dam~ w. &.779 

.md additional mailing offi,cs. 024. S<luth Dining Hall 
Norte Dame, IN 4:65S6-0n9 
The ObSC"rvcr ls .a member ofthe .Ali:sociatcd Pres:;. AU reproduction tights m reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Maddie Hanna Matt Puglisi Karen Langley Ken Fowler 
Jenny Hames Jack Thornton Viewpoint Scene Sarah Falvey Chris McGrady Graphics Ram a Kelly MacDonald Gottumukkala 
THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT 
Friday, October 7, 2005 
Better late than never 
If you were a student at Saint Mary's in 1998 and dialed up to an Internet Service Provider to check your e-mail on a Sunday night, your connection would be faster than the bandwidth students now receive in 2005 when connected to Saint Mary's HesNet. 
The 6.5 Megabit of bandwidth divided up among the student body has resulted in download speeds as slow as 1 KB/sec, com­pared to dialup download speeds of 56.6 KB/sec. This amount of bandwidth is only one-sixth of the 45 Megabit bandwidth necessary to satisfy the needs of the College -which have clearly expanded since 1998, as administrators, pro­and to using outside e-mail accounts to communicate with their families. 
But then eame a weleome about-face. After students voieed their frustrations at Monday's Board of Governance meeting and else­where, Saint Mary's made a swift turnaround, with administrators deciding to immediately reallocate $17,000 to increase the College's bandwith. Both Fowlkes, who attended the meeting, and the College are to be commended for listening to students and for 
quickly changing direction to meet a legitimate stu­
dent need. 
O 
Th 

fessors and students inereasingly rely on the Internet l:iserver Fowlkes is hopeful the upgrade will be eompleted to facilitate and enhance the academic experience. by the end of December, which would be a definite Disappointingly, Saint Mary's ha..'> not provided the improvement over next August. In the meantime,
Editorial 
resources to keep up with these needs. 

A'> the Internet has beeome a staple in the daily lives of most American college students -used for everything from researching papers to talking with friends to downloading music ­and as technological advances have made eonneetions laster than ever, it is hard to underestimate the Internet's importance. And for an educational institution that strives to maintain its academic innovations and reputation, a lagging Internet conneetion is a defi­nite problem. 
So it is troubling that College administrators and the Department of Information Technology allowed more than a month of the fall semester to pa..<;s before recognizing the seriousness of this disrup­tion to student life. At the beginning of this week, Director of Information Tedmology Keith Fowlkes said the College would not have the money to upgrade the connection by the end of this aca­demic year -a disheartening forecast for students who had resorted to waking up at 3 a.m. to do Internet-based homework however, studenl'> should follow his recommenda­
tion to cut back on downloading music and using strP-aming media so students who need to use the Internet for aca­demic work are able to do so. 
But for the long term, Saint Mary's not only a place of learning for il'> studenl'> -it is also home to those who live on eampus ­and students want the ability to use these advances without hin­drance. They have the right to expect the most oul'itanding techno­logical resources from the College, including a fast Internet corulee­tion that ean support music and other non-academic uses. 
As more and more academic requirements are filled by elass schedules, PowerPoint notes and group discussions that are facili­tated through the Internet, it has beeome more apparent how essential an efficient Internet conneetion is to any eollege's opera­tions. With this much-needed upgrade, studenl<; will be able to bet­ter participate in life at Saint Mary's -a goal the College has finally rightly rceognized as worth its immediate attention. 
Honoring the 'angels' of Notre Da111e 
Aeeording to legend, angels of varying shapes and sizes roam the earth. lneonspicuously walking among us, they are known only by those to whom they have bestowed good deeds. Notre Dame is 
no stranger to the angel brigade. One such soul, Hev. Hobert Gri.ffm, C.S.C., has been gone now for a half-dozen years but would have celebrated his 80th birthday this week. Unfortunately, 

unless a seholarship or Gary other memorial is Caruso established, few may remember his grace Capitol and eompassion as Comments time slithers along. 
Occasionally we stare squarely into the eyes of angels like "Fr. Griff' but fail to recognize them until they have vanished. A typical Notre Dame student will, in just four years, encounter many who are impressive not so much for Catholicism as for their spirituality. When this writer studied at Notre Dame during the waning years of the Vietnam War, that era's angels included Fr. Griff, Frank O'Malley, Dean Waddick, Lenny Sommer, Thomas Stritch and Rev. A B. Brennen to name but a few. 
These men touched student lives in divergent ways. For example, retired speech and drama professor of thirty­three years and Notre Dame Debate Coach, Lenny Sommer, led students to ten national championships in forensies, per­suasion and debate competition. He described his secret for success as "hard work, a belief in Notre Dame, and an occasional hopelessly dry martini." His testimonials, mere memories of his stu­dents, are much like the ghosts of Scrooge's youth at boarding schooL But oh, what wonderful memories. 

English professor Frank O'Malley and American Studies professor Tom Stritch were the la..<;t of the University's mid-20th Century "bachelor dons," faeulty who lived in the residence halls and mentored stu­dents. Coincidentally, both campus giants resided in Lyons Hall where they regularly spoke to students well beyond the mid­night hour. They taught students how to discover the meaning of life during those most sacred of nocturnal educational experiences. Both lived a vigorous exis­tence, attempting to fuse the ideal with the reaL Through their own seholarly style, each touched students in valuable ways. 
O'Malley fought personal demons aris­ing from a gin bottle, but eloquently spoke of the blood in the bricks on campus, of understanding the bread of live and of our everyday trials while following the foot­steps of Christ. Stritch almost single-hand­edly created the American Studies Department that melded American litera­ture, politics, communications and history at a time when our nation's culture was still exploding with antiwar fervor in the post-assassination 1960s. Never again will "bachelor dons" live as perpetual students within the confines of eollegiate dormito­ries. Their testimonials in today's digital existence are reduced to fmding the meaning of life through a Google search. 
For those who never had an Internet search engine while attending Notre Dame, they had Fr. Griffin. Griff comforted the lonely, the hurt, the losers, the misfits and the suicidal. He was a campus misfit who always gave a hug to visitors, and his immense size earned him the name "El Gorgo,'' the large one. Sitting all night in Keenan Hall on a large reclining chair just beyond his open door, Griff was the sponge who soaked up the heartbreak, frustration and uncertainty of Notre Dame teenagers who were homesick or upper­elassmen who were troubled. 
Working the spiritual graveyard shift each evening, Griffin seldom rose before noon. However, whenever he strolled across campus at midday, small armies of students "just happened to be going the same way." It was not until he adopted his cocker spaniel, Darby O'Gill, against University regulations, that some students felt at ease enough to use the dog to seek his guidance. 
Griff even managed to open the first 24­hour campus lounge in the basement of the La Fortune Student Center. Named after his dog, Darby's Place aeeommodat­ed mass gatherings. Yet Fr. Griffin could exude a personal one-on-one spiritual warmth students lacked elsewhere on campus or within their families. 
Perhaps someone today on campus has replaced Griff as the soother of souls, but none can attract legions who tag along while crossing the quads. Allowing his memory to fade as generations pass is not an option for many who loved Griff, whose lives were changed or saved through his unselfish and giving nature. Some desire the creation of a scholarship fund but laek an ability to coordinate the effort. 
It was suggested that an adequate schol­arship requires a hundred friends eon­tributing $1 ,000 each for a University fund in Griffin's name. This writer would be happy to coordinate such alumni interest with the University financial aid office. As one who personally felt Griff's charity and compassion, that is the least that can be done to remember this, or any of the Notre Dame 'angels.' 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a politi­cal strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday He can be contacted at hottline@aol. com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 

What are you doing for 
.:~ s·;U··b•··.mit 1 1:a.t··t:or····· ~I 
the bye week? .~ ).· :•m .• a ·;·t : ;t: .•. 1 
"We can do no great things, only small
a. Taking aroad trip 
things with great love."
b. Going home 

!I l" t··b•·· a E·····.·d····~··t··o·· r( l·t I• 
c. Studying for midterms 'u••t•········· ·u·t 
Mother Teresa

d. Staying on campus :II ·. ·. ·• ·. ···· · ··.. ..·........ ·... ····· ···· ·•· ·.....· .. · ·•········ . 1• 
humanitarian and missionary 
*Poll appears courtesy of 11 

www.ndsmcobservef.com ~· 
1 . . . f
www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 156 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Friday October 7, 2005 page II 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Respect for soldiers 
Soldiers viable peacemakers 
I thank Michael Schorsch for his egorical denunciations of our cadets and prayers in his Oct. 5 Letter to the Editor, faculty members. Rather than indicting '"War Culture' the wrong path," but I am an alleged "war culture" on campus, sad(ilmml that he so cavalierly dismisses erroneously attributed to Army HOTC, I the spirituality of the Notre Dame stu­encourage Schorsch to search for the dents and faeulty members involved in common ground shared by both tradi­Army Heserve Ollice Training Corps and tions, namely, a desire to bring about that his perception of the program as peace. one that promotes a "war cultum" on Jesus also said, "Blessed are the peace­campus is so distorted. Contrary to his makers, for they shall be called sons of belief that students in Army HOTC are God," and while unfortunate, it is a sad taught to kill, the reality of the program fact of contemporary times that soldiers here is embodied in its mission to "edu­are often the only viable peacemakers. cate, train, develop and inspire leaders Military training in general has a long of charaeter for the Army and the tradition on this campus, stretching back Nation." The main focus of Army noTC to 1858, and it is reflective of both the at Notre Dame is to develop leadership University's and the Catholic Church's and character in its participants, and to enduring commitment to the just war do so within the just war tradition tradition. With these things in mind, I ernbracml by the Catholic faith. believe that it is entirnly appropriate that 
Schorsch's comments do a nice job of an Army HOTC program exists at the presenting the padlist point of view, and University of Our Lady, the Queen of there is much to admire in his words, but Peace and mother of God since soldiers he must also be willing to concede that may well be the only ones able to estab­within Catholic teachings, the just war lish and maintain the very peace She tradition shares equal legitimacy and represents and we all seek, and thus thus warrants the same level of respect. become "sons of God" and of Our Lady as The U.S. Bishops' 1983 pastoral letter, well. "Thn Challenge of Peace," states that the Before he became a saint, St. Francis traditions of pacifist nonviolence and just was a soldier, so I think it was a fitting war are complementary and "contribute tribute that, on his feast day, The to the full moral vision we need in pur­Observer chose to feature the suit of a human peace." A decade later, University's Army HOTC program on its the Bishops reiterated their hope that all front page. I am proud that the Fightin' Christians, both those committed to Irish Battalion delights in producing active nonviolence and those who sup­leaders of character like St. Francis who port the just war tradition, could eulti­are equipped to fulfill their temporal, vate the "peaceable virtues," ineluding moral and spiritual responsibilities, and I love, hope, faith, patience and humility. urge Schorsch and others to resist the We in Army ROTC have made and con­temptation of associating all that is bad tinue to make every effort to do just that regarding the use of force in today's by cultivating such virtues among our world with the Army ROTC program on student participants and faculty mem­campus and their brothers and sisters bers. who are participating in it and who are 
While Army noTC cadets do spend a earnestly pursuing their own spirituality small portion of their time learning to in the equally legitimate, wholly lire rilles and to accomplish several respectable, and completely honorable other war-related tasks (all permissible just war tradition. by the Catholic Church), the preponder­We who volunteer to serve as peace­ance of their training involves leadership makers welcome Schorsch's prayers, and instruction and character development to I offer my own prayers in return that he enable them to become effective agents and others like him may come to under­of morality in an increasingly amoral stand the entire Catholic tradition as it world. Certainly we can both agree that relates to the use of force and learn to this is an admirable and theologically accept, rather than condemn, those who sound approach. share his love of peace but who differ, 
As a professional soldier, practicing within the teachings of the Church, on Catholic and the person responsible for the permissible means to achieve that developing and teaching the Army HOTC objective. curriculum on campus, I invite Schorsch to come to the Pasquerilla Center and Lieutenant Colonel Kelly Jordan learn what we actually teach and do, as Professor opposed to making wildly inaccurate Military Science and Head of Army ROTC assumptions about our activities and cat-Oct. 5 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Opinion short-sighted 
As a veteran of the war in Iraq and student at Notre Dame, I read Michael Schorsch's Oct. 5 Letter to the Editor ('"War Culture' the wrong path") with obvious interest. I'II begin by saying that as a practicing Catholic I'm also fully aware of the Vatican's position concerning the shrinking nature of just war theory, and the idea that the use of force has relatively few justifiable applications. I also respect and sup­port Michael's right to criticize our nation's military and the Notre Dame Heservc Oflicer Training Corps program. 
That having been said, what naturally struck me concerning Schorsch's letter was a basic lack of respect for contrary viewpoints-something that I feel to be a hall­mark of the Catholic faith. In using words like "ridiculous," "subversive" and "dan­gerous" to describe the viewpoints and life choices of our nation's service mnmbers appears patronizingly short sighted to say the very least. Schorsch then goes on to line up a few passages from the Bible and proceeds to shut the lid on our discussion with the image of a smug, contrite Jesus looking down on our HOTC program with obvious disdain. I'm quite certain that kind of vitriol is inconsistent with the Catholic faith I know. 
Forget for the moment that his opinion ignores the often noble intentions and eon­tributions of our men and women in uniform. Instead of using The Observer space to explore those contributions in depth, I'll simply ofl'er a suggestion. Next time you feel the urge to boil a very complex issue of the Catholic faith down to a black in white contest in condescension, just skip the next non: article and hit the sporl'i seetion­our win over Purdue was much more interesting than the non: FTX anyway. 
Matt Morrison (;radua!l" Srudem 
oA~campus 
Oct. 5 

Cadets leaders of character 
While skimming through the Oct. 5 countries by means of force is not a edition of The Observer, I stopped to graver evil than mass-murdering your read Michael Schorsch's thoughts about own people. Reserve Officer Training Corps at Notre Besides these other things, what dis­Dame. Although on the surface he turbed me most about Schorsch's view­appears to have a good argument, his point was when he insisted that all insight is very shortsighted. HOTC cadets turn and "walk in the way 
Yes, it is true that HOTC cadets are of the cross, which teaches us to take trained to kill when necessary. suffering upon ourselves instead of However, he fails to mention that first heaping sufferings upon others." To say and foremost, HOTC cadets are taught that the United States brings suffering how to be leaders of character for the is a disgrace. The United States has lib­nation. The values of respect, dignity, erated Europe twice, and now Iraq, selfless service and integrity, among among countless other nations through­others, are instilled in each and every out our history. ROTC cadet.:; already cadet and midshipmen. are deciding to take the sufl'ering and 
Speaking of values, what better place burden of war upon themselves rather for a person who must deal with war than "heaping" it upon ordinary U.S. and violence to come from than The citizens. University of Our Lady? Here at Notre Apparently, all that the U.S. military Dame cadets will be taught how to fight does is bring suffering. After all, in the wars in civilized manners with a strong aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, who faith as their backbone. Notre Dame was brought in to maintain order and will not turn out cold-blooded killers. peace? It couldn't have been the Army 
The Bible clearly mentions the pres­National Guard; they were probably too ence of both good and evil in our world. busy training to kill. Saddam Hussein is evil. Hitler was evil. The Just War Doctrine of the Catholic Stephen Iacovo Church states "the use of arms must not freshman produce evils and disorders graver than Stanford Hall the evil to be eliminated." liberating Ocr.6 
Respecting Saint Mary's 

Today when I flipped open The Observer, I immediately read the Question of the Day. Normally the answers amuse me, but today I was woefully disappointed. Dave Gruener's response to the question, What community service do you do and why?, made me smile. He said, ''I'm going down to New Orleans to do some hurricane relief work over break." However Patrick Pawlicki's answer-"I hang out with SMC chicks" -infuri­ated not only me, but a percentage of the Saint Mary's population. 
There is a reason that The Observer is an "Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." It's impossible to express the frustration we Saint Mary's women feel about the stereotypes held by a number of Notre Dame stu­dents. Saint Mary's is a remarkable place, and we love our school. The women here are confident, talented and goal oriented. We are not here for the sole purpose of pursuing Notre Dame men, in spite of what people such as Pawlicki believe. 
Saint Mary's is not an inferior institution ­quite the contrary. The school has a unique histo­ry and an outstanding academic reputation. We respect and admire our Notre Dame family, but did not choose Saint Mary's simply because of its proximity to the University. Nor did we choose to come here as the "second-best" option to Notre Dame. We are separate and proud of the distine­tion, and couldn't be happier here across the street. 
It's unfortunate that Pawlicki feels that oll'ering his manly presence to Saint Mary's women is a service to us. I pity his closed mind. lie's missing out on the chance to meet some of the most incredible people in this Notre Dame, lloly Cross and Saint Mary's community. 
Sarah King 
lim year Saint Mary's Oct.6 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Friday, October 7, 2005 

playing running back Jamie O'Hara in "Rudy." 
''I'm sure it's going to be a great experience for [Vaughn] to come back to where his film career started," said John Pisani, Vaughn's publicist. "I think he's always had a fondness for Notre Dame, and there's a great tradition there. So to be able to come and do a show on the campus, he's thrilled about it." 
Saturday, Vaughn brings his national c·omedy tour, "30 Days & 30 Nights ­Hollywood to the Heartland," to Stepan Center, the 27th stop on the tour's nationwide road trip. Vaughn will act as the event's emcee and also take part in some of the skits. The show will also feature national touring comedians Bret Ernst, Sebastian Maniscalco, Ahmed Ahmed and John Caparulo, all comedians from the famed Los Angeles Comedy Store. 
Playing in 30 cities in 30 days is a daunting task for any performer, but Vaughn and his comedy crew have embraced the rare opportunity to tour all the way from Los Angeles to America's heartland, taking in the sights along the way. 
"We've been having a great time and it's been awesome performing at all these venues, some more historical than others," Ernst said. "We visited a few college campuses already; but nothing to the magnitude of Notre Dame. I'd love to go down to the [foot­ball stadium] field, especially since 'Rudy' was one of my favorite movies." 
The idea for the tour was spawned from Vaughn's previous work on come­dy benefit shows for charity. He organ­ized a similar show with the Comedy Store performers more than a year ago to support the Army Emergency Relief Fund. The success of that Memorial Day weekend show convinced Vaughn to spawn a nationwide tour. Proceeds from the current tour's profits have been used to support various charities, including those aiding the victims of Hurricane Katrina. The tour is also being filmed for an upcoming documen­tary movie detailing the trip's experi­ences. 
"Vince really respects .~hat we do as far as stand-up comics go," Ernst said. "He's really an amazing individual as far as his work ethic and his character. [He and his ~Ytffl put this all together in pretty much':f'our weeks; which is unbe­lievable. The idea of doirtg it for charity just motivated him even more." 

For Maniscalco, a fan of Vaughn's 1996 hit comedy "Swingers," the tour has offered a chance to travel around the country and work with someone who had inspired him onscreen years ago. When "Swingers" came out, Maniscalco was still living in Chicago and thinking of pursuing a career in standup. 
"To work with Vince Vaughn was a pretty surreal experience -to watch this guy's movie nine years ago and love what he did, and now, nine years later, we're roommates on a tour bus," Maniscalco said. "For me it's been great because now I get to tap into Vince Vaughn's audience base and he's validated us as his favorite comedians. It's been great. He's like the Johnny Carson of the millennium." 
As the comedy tour has neared South Bend, more discussions on the tour bus have been directed towards football and Notre Dame. Vaughn, a college football fan, also grew up in La'ke Forest, Ill. 
Between his love for college football, growing up in the Midwest and starring in "Rudy," Ernst isn't surprised that there might be a correlation there. 
"[Vaughn] is a big Notre Dame fan," Ernst said. "We were arguing on the bus. He kept bringing up Notre Dame and saying, 'classy program, Notre Dame doesn't do what the University of Miami does.' He's pretty attached to it and plus he's a Midwestern boy, which might explain why he loves Notre Dame." 
It's been over a decade since Vaughn started 'his film career on this very campus. He met fellow actor and good friend Jon Favreau during the filming of "Rudy," a relationship that opened an avenue to "Swingers," the film that helped launch the pair to stardom. This Saturday, Vaughn's career progression will come full circle. 
''I'm sure it's going to be a great experience and one that he's excited about -being able to come back after the success he's had in films like 'Dodgeball,' 'Wedding Crashers,' and 'Old School' that helped him become an A-list movie star, which is a nice arc,'' Pisani said. 
Not bad for a third-string running back. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, October 7, 2005 
page 13 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
Visually stunning Hong Kong film arrives on campus 

make. Without the support of a logical1\y 1\RIAN DOXTADER 
plot, the movie begins to collapse A'sistalll Scene Editor 
under its own weight. 
The east is a veritable "who's who" of 

It's typieally a bad sign when the lirst modern Hong Kong cinema. Kar-Wai word used to deseribe a lilm is "eon­stapln Tony Leung Chiu-Wai is pre­fusing." Y1~t no other word sums up dictably reliable as the struggling "2046," Wong Kar-Wai's latest film, as author, while Faye Wong ("Chungking neatly or as suednetly. Express") and Zhang Ziyi ("llero," 
While it scorns points for atmosphere Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon") arn and mood -two elements typically quite good as Chow Mo-wan's love well-donn by Kar-Wai -the narrative interests. The problem is that the plot is ultimately too jumbled and inacces­lets these characters -and the actors sible for most audience members. -down. The acting is solid, but these 
Like most Kar-Wai films, "2046" is characters are eut adrift in a sea of dnlibnrately paced. Yet, unlike most confusion and, ultimately, apathy. It Kar-Wai films, the narrative and char­becomes too difficult to become acters aren't enough to keep the audi­involved in the uneven narrative, and mu~n interestnd. The time-shifting plot as a result, most viewers will simply lwgins in the future year of 2046 stop trying. before travding 80 years into the past Kar-Wai is one of Hong Kong's most to the year 1966. It follows Chow Mo­renowned directors, but "2046" isn't in Wan (Tony Lnung the same league Chin-Wail. a wri­as predecessors
2046
ter who finds like "Chungking himself with three Express" and "In
Director: Wong Kar-Wai 
different women the Mood for
Writer: Wong Kar-Wai 
on Christmas Eve Love." In those
Starring: Tony Leung Chiu-Wai, Takuya 
in three sueees­films, Kar-Wai
Kimura, Faye Wong and Ziyi Zhang 
sivn years. The had stories to tell
Venue: Performing Arts Center
first is Lulu and told them
Showtimes: Friday at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m.
(Carina Lau), fol­well, as he
and Saturday at 10 p.m.
lowed by hotel explored the heiress Wang details and tribu­.Jingwen (Faye Wong) then high-class lations of love. lie nominally attempts prostitute Bai Ling (Zhang Ziyi). to explore the same themes here, yet Ultimately, Wang and Chow are munit­they don't resonant as elearly. The ed, whieh leads to the film's eonelu­elliptical editing and languid pacing sion. are familiar devices in Kar-Wai's films, 
A lilm like "2046" isn't about plot or but the inability to connect with the narrative, and that's precisely at the characters nullifies their nff'nct in this lwart of its problems. Few films ean film. thrive on atmosphere alone, and whiln The dil'f'ernnce betwmm his previous Kar-Wai's latest certainly has tone and works and "2046" is in the approach: style, it lacks thn eolwsiveness of his his narlier pictures were not necessari­earlier works. ly art films, but they were artistic 
"In the Mood for Love" was equally films, while "2046" is definitely situat­atmosplwrie, but its characters were ed as art with a capital "A." morn involving, its ruminations on thn Kar-Wai might think this excuses his nature of love more striking. excesses, but discerning viewers know Add ilionally, "2046" is unforgivingly better. "2046" is undoubtedly a well­serious, lacking the charm and person­made film, nice to look at, easy to ality of "Chungking Express." admire, but difficult to love -and 
Three separate, distinct and talented when the film is supposed to be about einnmatographers worked on "2046:" love, shouldn't that be of the utmost Christopher Doyle, Kwan Pun-leung importance? and Lai Yiu-Fai. As a result, it is filled with much visual grace and beauty, but Contact Brian Doxtader at pretty pictures do not a great film bdoxtade@nd.edu 
NOTRE DAME'S BEST... 

BY OBSERVER PHOTO STAFF 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, October 7, 2005 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles ready to repeat success in Eagle Invitational 
Team hopes for best times at annual race hosted by Benedictine 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 
This one is big for the Belles. 
Today marks the last race in the middle third of the season for the team, and Saint Mary's enters the competition with high expectations. 
Last year in the five-kilome­ter Benedictine University Eagle Invitational in Lisle, Ill., Becky Feauto led Saint Mary's to a fifth-place finish in the 23­team field. 

Today, the Belles and first­year head coach Jackie Bauters are hoping for just as much success. 
"I think this weekend's going to be really good for us," Bauters said. "We tend to do pretty good at this race." 
Bauters said her strategy is to continue to improve Saint Mary's team results is to maxi­mize the performance of indi­vidual Belle runners. 
"Just a gut feeling, I think this race -because it's been very good for us -I think it will prove to be the best race for a lot of people this year," she said. · 
The Belles have other rea­sons to be optimistic about the compensate for graduated sen­team competition as well. iors and injuries. Sophomore 
The Northern Illinois Megan Gray finished just Huskies, reigning champions of behind Feauto last year at the the Eagle Invitational, and Eagle Invitational and posted Saint Mary's were among the the team's best time in six of its 
27 teams in last  eight  races  in  
weekend's Sean Earl Lakefront Invitational in  "/ think this weekend's going to be really  2004. But she has not raced so far this season  
Chicago.  The  good for us. "  due to injury.  
Belles finished  In her absence,  
18th, and the Huskies placed three spots  Jackie Bauters Belles coach  newcomers like Kelly Biedron have filled the  
behind at No. 21.  gap  and  run  

"I think that speaks to our exceptionally for the team. improving," Bauters said. Seven of Saint Mary's 14 point­
Strong performances from scorers over the past two several freshmen so far this weeks have been freshmen. season have helped the Belles Bauters said that from fresh­men to seniors, the entire team practiced well this week. 
"We had a pretty full, hard week of practice this week, and the girls did great," she said. 
The race is the Belles' final five-kilometer meet for the year, and Baqters said that most of her runners are aiming to record personal best times in the race. 
"I really hope they can accomplish [their goals] and have their best [times]," she said. 
The race begins at 3:30 p.m. on the campus of Lisle High School. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 

Saint Mary's enters conference cha111pionship with big lead 
Second-place Olivet is 22 strokes behind the Belles but made a late charge in last year's final match 
By ANNA FRICANO  This weekend will likely be very similar for the team.  days, that could deteriorate," Hamilton said.  the standard course," Hamilton said. "It'll be a good  Rounding out the senior class is Kirsten Fantom, who  
Sports Writer  Olivet is again in second place  Also, the Belles will go into  test, and it will separate the  is also  a  captain of the 2005  
behind the Belles, and it did  this weekend with the spring  good teams from the not-so­ team.  Fantom  has  had  a  
This weekend, members of  manage to finish  ahead of  season in the backs of their  good teams."  strong senior year, finishing in  
the Saint Mary's golf team will  Saint Mary's in  one  of the  minds. Hamilton commented  Four Saint Mary's seniors  third place overall at the first  
have the opportunity to set a  league jamborees this fall.  that the team will work to  have been with the golf pro­ league jamboree of the sea- 
new standard for the program  But the Belles have main­ improve its scores, in order to  gram  from  son.  Ham­ 
and make history at the College. Having won three consecu­tive conference titles in the past three years, the Belles are one championship tourna­ment away from becoming the first-ever Saint Mary's team to  tained the overall lead in the conference by a comfortable margin after Olivet finished in fourth place, 13 strokes behind Saint Mary's, in the most recent conference com­petition.  maintain its chances of getting to the national tournament in May. "Our second motivation is that we need to lower our scoring averages, which will determine who goes to NCAA,"  the very beginning of its streak of success, and will try to keep it going this weekend.  "For the seniors to be able to win [the conference championship] four times, that'll be something they can take with them forever."  ilton is hope­ful that the seniors on his team will be able to finish their time with the golf  
take the MIAA golf title four  With  such  a  large  gap  Hamilton said.  M  e  g  an  program with  
years in a row. After three conference jam~ borees, distributed throughout  between first and second place in the conference stand­ings, the Belles are working  "There will be a couple of teams that we don't meet before then, so it will be  Mattia has led the way for the Belles  Mark Hamilton Belles coach  a perfect record in the MIAA.  
the fall season, the Belles cur­ hard  to  make  determined by  this  year,  "To  win it  
rently have a 22-stroke lead in  sure  that  they  "The course suits our  our scores."  capping off a  four times in  
the MIAA. Last season, it was Olivet who gave the Belles a run for  don't lose their focus going into this weekend.  style, but it's slightly tougher than the  The Bedford Valley Country Club, where this  career which has included All­MIAA honors for three seasons already.  a row is a great feat," Hamilton said. "For the sen­iors to be able to win it four  
their money in the champi­ Head  coach  standard course."  weekend's  36­ Nicole Bellino, a  co-captain  times, that'll be something  
onship, finishing only two  Mark  Hamilton  hole event will  of this year's team, was given  they can take with them forev­ 
strokes behind place. But with the  in second combined  said that the team is concen­trating on two  Mark Hamilton Belles coach  take place, is known to pro­vide a challeng­ the coach's award in 2003, and was named Second Team All Conference in 2004.  er." The final event of the fall season will begin today at 1  
scores from the first three  main factors for  ing  round  of  Erin McQueen was awarded  p.m. Teams will begin to tee­ 
jamborees,  Saint  Mary's  motivation to perform well.  golf, but Hamilton is happy  with the coach's award in  off for the final round at 9  
already had a  68-stroke lead  "[Our lead] is 22 strokes,  with his team's chances on the  2004 and has been named to  a.m. Saturday.  
going into the tournament,  and while  we  don't like to  course.  the MIAA Honor Roll, In addi­ 
taking off most of the pressure  think in those terms, it's possi­ "The course suits our style,  tion, she is a Mark Bambenek  Contact Anna Fricano at  
for the weekend.  ble that over the course of two  but it's slightly tougher than  Scholar.  africaO1@saintmarys.edu  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
ALL STUDENTS Part Time Work ND HOME GAME WEEKENDS BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT­$12.25 base/appt. Flexible sched-Very nice 3bdr home, fully fur-BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. 
LOST AND FOUND ules around classes, Gain exp. in FOR RENT nished,walk to ND. Garage + 5 off-273-3911. PERSONAL 
customer sales & service, street parking,gas grill. Open lease FOUND: Pair of Oakley glasses out-Conditions apply, all ages 17 & GREAT HOUSES GREAT after. 283-0629. FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do side of Corby Hall on Friday, 9/30. older, Call Today 574-273-3835. NEIGHBORHOODS 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE not go it alone. If you or someone Call Jack 276-0401 to identify and andersonNDrentals.com Rooms in private home for rent dur-FOR$$: you love needs confidential support claim. ing ND football weekends or other www. victorytickets.com or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. 
YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apart-ND-SMC events. Call 243-0658. Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more 
FOUND: Items of value near PE on ments available for 06-07 school WANTED:ND-USC football tix. TOP infonnation, see our bi-weekly ad in Tuesday, 10/4. Call Barbara 243-year. Call today 235-7234. BLUE & GOLD HOMES. Best rates $$$PAID. THE OBSERVER. 1747. for weekend, monthly & yearly CALL 574-232-2378 A.M. 574-288­
ND FANS For Sale: Cabin 25 mi. HOMES FOR RENT. KRAMER rentals. 574-250-7653. 2726 P.M. Spring Break 2006. Travel with STS, from ND. Wooded gated community PROPERTIES HAS HOMES AVAIL-Lakeside,MI cottage. Perfect for ND Americas #1 Student Tour Operator with lake access. 3 BD 2BA loft, ABLE RANGING FROM 3 BDRMS game weekends. 7732182203 BUY/SELUTRADE OR SWAP ND to Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, 
FoR SALE 
WANTED 

screened porch, FP, $295,000. Call UP TO 10 BDRMS. CLOSE TO ND. FOOTBALL TIX. 289-8048. Bahamas and Florida. Now hiring 
619-606-8815. FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL Rent house for USC game. Walk to on-campus reps. Call for group dis-NOW HIRING Have a car? Need KRAMER FOR SHOWINGS -ND. Call Deb 287-4961. NEED USC & TENN TIX & PARK-counts. lnfonnation/Reservations 1­some extra cash? Jimmy John s is OFFICE 234-2436; CELL 315-5032. lNG PASS. 574-276-8507. 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com hiring drivers for all shifts. Contact Chuck at 286-0299. Elegant all brick 3bdnn home & HOUSES FOR RENT: 3-5 BED-TICKETS A FARM FAMILY NEEDS 2 OR 4 ADOPTION: At home Catholic 
garage. Nicely remodeled, gorgeous ROOM HOMES.GOOD CONDI-USC TIX. schooled mom and lawyer dad with Need an experienced, responsible, inside.1 mi to ND. $175,900. 283-TION.CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Call WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. WILL PAY A FAIR PRICE. 654-0169 4 yr old big brother long to share part-time babysitter for four-year old 0629. Sean 532-1895. TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. (local call) their happy home and family with a 
boy at professors home. 574-271-baby. Financial security/bright future 1353 HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6 WANTED: 4 GAs for USC game. Alum needs ND-USC tickets. in S.CA beach community. 
1 bdrm condo near ND. All appli-Bedrooms includes all utilities, local Call203-261-8717 Jim. Please call Mike at 607-733-4590. Expenses paid as pennitted. Babysitter for family in Granger, ances. $69,900. Call Kim Kollar phone, washer/dryer, security sys-Legal/confidential. Please call days &/or nights.Car required. Call 574-280-8160. CENTURY 21 JIM tern. $400/student. Office 234-9334, I need USC tix. Call Nick at 330-NEED USC TIX, CAN ALSO SWAP Adrienne and Steve toll free any-Laura 243-4776. DUNFEE Cell 315-2509 ndstudentrentals.com 207-7434. LOCAL LODGING, 312-925-8961. time: 1-888-476-2220. 
~----­

OUNDTHE NATION 
Friday, October 7, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page IS 

NFL 
AFC East 

I.eam  rPrord  pnrc .  PF/G  PNG  
Miami New England Buffalo New York  2·1 2·2 1-3 1·3  .667 .500 .250 .250  68 87 48 47  51 108 69 73  
AFC North  
team  rncord  pnre.  PF/G  PNG  
Cincinnati Pillsburgh baltimore Cleveland  4·0 2·1 1·2 1·2  1.000 .667 .333 .333  104 81 30 45  38 37 52 64  
AFC South  
tPam Indianapolis Jacksonville Tennessee Houston  rerord 4·0 2·2 1·3 0·3  perc. 1.000 .500 .250 .DOD  PF/G 78 62 69 24  PNG 26 64 106 65  
AFC West  
tPam  rnrord  pPrc .  PF/G  PNG  
Denver Kansas City San Diego Oakland  3·1 2·2 2·2 1·3  . 750 .500 .500 .250  80 91 127 76  68 91 88 89  
NFC East  
tnam  n•ronl  pen:.  PF/{;  PNG  
Washington New York Philadelphia Dallas  3·0 3·1 3·1 2·2  1.000 .750 .750 .500  43 136 112 88  37 98 68 88  
NFC North  
team  rnrord  per<:.  PF/G  PNG  
Chicago Detroit Minnesota Green Bay  1·2 1·2 1·3 0·4  . 333 .333 .250 .000  52 36 64 72  39 58 107 92  
NFC South  
tPllnl  record  perc.  PF/G  PNG  
Tampa Bay Atlanta Carolina New Orleans  4·0 3·1 2·2 2·2  1.000 .750 .500 .500  77 86 103 68  45 57 96 87  
NFC West  
team  record  pere.  PF/G  PNG  
Seattle St. Louis Arizona San Francisco  2·2 2·2 1·3 1·3  . 500 .500 .250 .250  89 97 74 76  76 111 110 132  

Big East Women's Soccer Division B 
team record overall. 
1 NOTRE DAME 4+0 10·2·0 2 Georgetown 3·1-1 10·2·1 3 Louisville 3·2·0 8·4·0 4 Villanova 2·0·3 6·3·4 5 Seton Hall 2·3·0 6·4·2 6 Cincinnati 1·3·1 3·6·3 7 Rutgers 1·4·0 4·7·1 8 DePaul 0·3·2 2·6·3 
around the dial 
MLB White Sox at Red Sox 3:19p.m., ESPN2 Angels at Yankees 7:19p.m., ESPN 
CoLLEGE FooTBALL Syracuse at Connecticut 7:00 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 


Associated Press 
HOMULUS, Mich. ­South Florida heat pre­vailed over a city whose last Super Bowl was an icy one. 
Miami was awarded the 2010 Super Bowl on Thursday. a record 1Oth time the city will host the title game and record 15th time it will be in Florida. 
"We love our city and we love our area. We think the weather is the best. We think we have the best hotels, the best restaurants, the best beaches and the best golf courses," Dolphins owner Wayne Huizenga said. 

Miami, Atlanta and Houston made a final pitch for the marquee event at an NFL owners meeting about 25 miles from Detroit's ford Field, where the next Super Bowl will be played. 
What would Falcons owner Arthur Blank do differently? 
"I would take Atlanta and move it to the Caribbean," he joked. 
An ice storm and frigid temperatures struck Atlanta in 2000, the last time the game was played at the Georgia Dome. 
With New York, which had been conditionally 
awarded the game, out of the running, tho NFL picked from three cities that lost a bid in May for the 2009 game, which went to Tampa, Fla. 
The vote took three bal­lots. with Houston elimi­nated on the first. No city got the three-quarters vote needed on the second ballot and Miami won by a simple majority on the third. 
"Obviously. it was very close," Blank said. 

Some regarded Atlanta and Houston as favorites because Miami already had been picked for the 2007 game, but Blank said South Florida's 
IN BRIEF 
ManninJ! and Harrison find 
themselves close to record 
SAN FHANCISCO -Peyton Manning and Marvin Harrison are poised to make history, and the San Frandsen 49ers know there's not much they can do to protect one of their franchise's most hallowed records in their own stadium. 
The 49ers are just hoping Dwight Freeney doesn't set some sort of sacks record of his own while chas­ing Alex Smith, San Francisco's own star quarterback of the future. 
With one touchdown pass against the Niners' patehwork secondary on Sunday, Manning and !Iarrison will become the most prolif'ic passing combination in NFL history. Their 85th touchdown hookup last week lied the league reeord set by San Franeisco's Steve Young and Jerry Hice from 11)87-99. 
Manning and !Iarrison already hold the records for most com pie­lions (726) and yards (9,677) by a tandem, but the scoring mark is the 

most prized. Young and Hire led the 49ers to dozens or victories and a Super Bowl title from their home at wind-swept Candlestick Park. Johnson rea~ to pitch game three for the Yankees 
NEW YOHK -Handy Johnson knows his mission: Win and nothing else. 
The Yankees imported the Big Unit last winter to be their ace, snuff out opponents and get New York its first World Series title since 2000. 
With the best-ol'-f'ive AL playoff series against the Los Angeles Angels tied at one game apiece going into Game 3, the 42-year-old lel't-hander sounded determirwd as he prepared for his Yankees post­season debut. 
"I understand that I am here to get this tnam over the top," hn said. "And with that, there's no making mistakes. I made a few during the weather won out. The 2008 Super Bowl will be played in suburban Phoenix. That means al'tc~r the game in Michigan this year, there will be three Super Bowls in Florida and one in Arizona. 
"If you look at the last number of votes, it's very elear the ownership feels strongly about having the game where the weather is generally warmer." Blank said. 
When the NFL is not 

-
awarding a Super Bowl to a city -likn Detroit ­with a new stadium, Huizenga expeets Miami to have a good shot at landing the game. 

regular snason, and unfortunately there's no room to make a lot of mistakes durin_g-tlw postsnason."MonlJ;!omene shoots 6-under 
to hold lead in tournament 
SAN FHANCISCO -Coming ofT his f'irst victory in 1C) months, Colin Montgornerie appears hungry for more. 
Montgomnrie showed no el"feets from an emotional vietory four days ago in Scotland, missing only two green and matching his career-low round in the United Stalc~s with a 6­undnr 64 that gavn him the lead Thursday in thn American Express Championship. 
The 42-year-old Scot surged into lead with three straight birdies to dose out the hal'k ninn, ineluding an approach into (> fent on the 470­yard 18th hole. Despite two good birdin chanens that caught thn lip, he stuiTed a wedge into 18 inches on thn seventh holn, and rwver came~ seriously elose to a bogey. 

page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 7, 2005 





-------~ 
Friday, October 7, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Lewis and Badin face off in Blue League tilt 
Howard hopes to give favored Cavanaugh a tough game Sunday 
By JACK THORNTON, 
COLIN REIMER and 
BEN VINCENT 
Sporrs Writers 
With playoff's on the horizon, thn Lnwis Chieks (3-2) and the Badin Bullfrogs ( l-3-1) will meet Sunday at 9 p.m. at Hhinln Wnsl Fields in what should he a parlieularly hnated game. 
Lnwis, the No. :~ seed in the Wonwn's Blue League, just fin­islwd healing thn Bullfrogs 14­
1) on Tunsday and will now face llw No. 4 send in a game that eould have playoff irnplieations. 
Tuesday's game was won on inlnnsily, Badin reeeivnr Courtney Hains said. 
"They eame out a lot more aggrnssive than us, and il was­n't unlit about the last 10 min­utes when we !:anw out aggres­sive, lhal we played them strong and started to eorne haek," Hains said. "They just had il all game and we didn't and lhal gavn them the edge." 
Even if Lyons loses lo Walsh, guaranteeing the Bullfrogs a playoff spot, Hains said they'll he gunning for the Chieks. 
"I think it's going to be pretty tense," she said. "There was a lot of trash talking on the field, and I think they're going lo como out knowing lhal we want to bnal thnm." 
Lnwis rncniver Beeky Hambo says the Chieks will have to slay extra sharp to pull oil' the season-sweep. 
''I'm kind of nervous, because we just played them, and they kind of know what we do now," Hambo said. "We just need to be on the top of our game, because now they're going to try to adapt to us." 
Though the Chicks have already clinched a playoff berth, Lewis is approaching this game as if it meant as much as any other. 
"We come out every game 100 pereent," Hains said. "Every game is just about improving on the last, and fine­tuning everything and getting everything ready for the play­offs." 
In particular, the Chicks are looking to prepare for a trip to Notro Dame Stadium. 
"It's very important Ito usl to win this game," Hains said. "Two years ago, we went to the stadium, and a lot of the sen­iors and juniors want to go baek." 
Howard vs. Cavanaugh 
It's David versus Goliath Sunday night at 7 p.m. as the Howard Ducks (0-4-1) take on the unde~ated Cavanaugh Chaos (5-0) in a No. 1 vs. No. 6 positional game. 
Cavanaugh comes in as a heavy favorite, most recently coming off of a 13-6 win against Lyons. The Chaos have posted four shutouts in five games, and also possess a high-powered offensive attack that dismantled Walsh 18-0 earlier in the season. Led by quarterback Lisa Huffer and receivers Nancy Powaga and Janice Flynn, Cavanaugh has rolled through the women's Blue League en route to a No. 1 seeding this week. But despite their success. middle linebacker Kerri Bergen said her team is aware of the dan­gers of facing a team with nothing to lose. 
"We are definitely not looking past this one," Bergen said. "We have to work on what we want to do for the playoffs, and we want to stay undefeated." 
Bergen added Cavanaugh will look to get inexperienced players some valuable playing time should the score allow it. 
"When it comes time for the playoffs, it's always a good thing to get everyone some playing time, so they're ready if we ever need them to come in," Bergen said. 
Howard does not have that luxury. 
The Ducks enter the contest without a win, but receiver Mary Kaminski is looking on the bright side. 
"By the numbers, we look like we haven't had a great season, but we have shown signs of improvement week by week," she said. 
Despite looking at the posi­tives, Kaminski acknowledged that it will take a tremendous effort to upset the Chaos Sunday night. 
"We have to execute perfeetly and put all the little things together, but we haven't been able to do that yet," she said. "We've been working on the lit­tle things, like blocking, tack­ling, defensive coverage and running routes." 
Kaminski pointed to senior running back/safety Callie Whelan and freshman receiv­er/cornerback Liz Price as players who could possibly help the Ducks pull the upset. 
To the casual viewer, this 

game looks to be a runaway for the Chaos. They appear to hold a very favorable advantage both offensively and defensive­ly. 
But as history has shown, the game isn't played on paper. 
Lyons vs. Walsh 
Hope is not lost. 
If Lyons can beat Walsh in the final regular season game this Sunday, and if Badin loses its game against Lewis, the Lions can make the playoiTs. 
Of course, beating Walsh is easier said than done, as the Wild Women's only loss this season came to unbeaten Cavanaugh. 
Lyons knows the difficulty of the task it will face, because the Wild Women shut them out 20-0 when they met last week. 
However, Lyons has a new source of confidence as it just played its best game of the sea­son on Tuesday against Cavanaugh, becoming the first team to score a touchdown on the Chaos all season and show­ing remarkable defensive resilience. 
They lost, but gave Cavanaugh a strong challenge, and captain Katie Mackin said she and her team are confident heading into Sunday. 
"After our game against Cavanaugh, we are starting to pick up momentum," she said. "We had practice today and will again on Saturday. We know Walsh's plays, offensive and defensive, and we think we can play well against them." 
Walsh, meanwhile, looks to hold onto its No. 2 seed in the Women's Blue league heading into the playoffs and would like nothing more than a solid win to boost its confidencn. However, the Wild Women are assured a playoff bnrth no mat­ter the outcome. 
TIHl game looms at H p.m. Sunday night on Hiehle Wnst. 
Pangborn vs. Pasquerllla East 
On Sunday at the West Quad fields, the Phoxes of Pangborn will take on tho Pyros of Pasquerilla East in a game with playoff implieations. 
In the Women's Gold Leagun, Pangborn, as of thn latest released standings, sat a half game behind second-place Welsh Family, and one game behind first-place McGlinn, which handed the Phoxes their only loss of the season. 
Pasquerilla East, at 1-3, needs a win to stay in the hunt for tho playoff's. 
In the Gold Lnague, four teams make the playoffs. MeGlinn and Welsh Family sit in strong positions for the first two, but the last two may eomn down to tho final slate of games as the other live teams are still in the hunt. 
So far, the tnams have playnd two common opponents. Both lost to McGlinn -PE fell, 20-0, and Pangborn, 6-0. Pangborn defeated Pasquerilla West, IH­0, while PE camn up a toueh­down short against its neigh­bors, 19-13. 
With so much at stake, fans can be sure they will witness a hard-played and omotionally­eharged game Sunday. 
Contact Jack Thornton, Colin 
Reimer and Ben Vincent at 
jthorn4@nd.edu, 
creimerl@nd.edu and 
bvincent@nd.edu 


UNIVERSITY or NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT Of MUSIC PRESENTS 
h£n0~MUSIQVE 
CONCERT XXV 

MEDIEVAL CHANT AND POLYPHONY FROM PRAGUE 
SCHOLA MUSICORUM 9:30P.M. WEDNESDAY. OCTOBE.R 12. 2005 REYES ORGAN AND CHORAL IIALL MARl[ P DtMRTOLO ClNHR ruR 1Ht i'lRI'ORMING ARTS 
f'IHE AND (li'EN ru rHf. i'UIII.IC
UNIVERSI"fY OF 
T10.1:1 S IUQUIRW ~DEBARTOLO
NOTRE DAME 
~ PERFORMING ARTS CENTER

ll~PAMTMl~~l'Ol1 Ml~IC i'HONf. 574·631·21:!00 FOR l"ICKHS 

Now leasing quality houses 
close to campus for the 2006/7 and 2007/8 school years. 
Call Sean at 
Anlan Properties 
574-532-!895 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, October 7, 2005 
MEN'S INTERHALL-BLUE LEAGUE 
Knott, Carroll lock horns 
By CATHERINE KANE, 
CHRIS HINE and 
JAMES FEGAN 
Sports Writers 

Hailing from extreme sides of campus, Knott and Carroll are preparing for what could prove to be an exciting game on Sunday at Riehle field. 
"These are two totally differ­ent football teams," Carroll cap­tain Kory Wilmot said. 
And they come to the field with two different goals. 
Carroll posts a 2-1 record with a loss only to Zahm in the first game of the season. 
The team hopes to advance its standings for the playoffs, this being its final game of the regu­lar season. Knott, on the other hand, is looking for at least one win this season. Having lost both of its games this year, Knott is more focused on secur­ing at least one victory. 
"Carroll has obviously had more success than we have so far this year, so they are proba­bly the favorites on Sunday, but we are going to go out and give it our best shot," Knott captain Dan Gray said. 
Carroll hopes to continue uti­lizing its passing offense, which, besides its first game, has proved successful. 
The squad came away with .a six-point victory against Siegfried and a 28-point blowout against Fisher last week. Ironically, the two teams that Carroll has beaten are the two that defeated Knott. 
Carroll wants to chance to prove its skill. 
"[We want to take] another opportunity to show everyone that we are as good as any team in interhall," Wilmot said. 
And each team seems confi­dent in the improvements it has made so far this season. 
Even though Knott comes into the game on Sunday as the underdog, Gray is optimistic. 
"We've made some improve­ments in the last two weeks and hopefully we can translate them into a win," he said. 
Fisher vs. Sorin 

The Sorin Otter's (1-2) will take on the Green Wave of Fisher Hall (1-1) Sunday in a Blue League contest that has playoff implications for both squads. Sorin would be out if it loses. If Fisher loses, they are essentially out of the playoffs, barring a miraculous series of events in the final set of games that would get them in due to a technicality. 
Sorin is looking to jump-start an offense that has only one touchdown in three games. The Otters feature Stu Mora at quarterback and Pat Lopez at running back. 
"We're trying to make the offense a little more produc­tive," Sorin captain Pete Lavorini said. "Hopefully, the defense will play as tough as it always has and our offense can live up to its potential." 
The defense thus far has one shutout and has given up a combined 22 points in Sorin's two losses. Lavorini said his team understands how crucial it is to win this game, but it doesn't feel any added pres­sure. 
"We're just going to go out and play our best," he said. 
Fisher opened its season with a 6-0 win over Knott and is looking to avenge a 28-0 defeat last week at the hands of Carroll. On offense, Fisher fea­tures sophomore Patrick Gotebeski at quarterback and running back Tom Sullivan. 
"This week at practice we focused on fundamentals and we feel ready to go," Gotebeski said. 
· On defense, Fisher hopes to fix a pass defense that surren­dered four touchdown passes last week to Carroll. The Green Wave features the tough line­backing corps of Andrew Lorenz, Tommy Bufalino and Mike Bufalino. 
The game will be held at 3 
p.m. on Riehle North Field. 
Siegfried vs. St. Ed's 
Siegfried (2-1) looks to end its regular season by clinching a playoff berth against St. Ed's (0­
2) this Sunday at 2 p.m. With a win, Siegfried will punch its ticket for the playoff, while another loss leaves its destiny hinging on the result of other games. At 0-2, St Ed's playoff 
·:::· ·:·.......I 
..,,: ·:::::-::::::•:.:·::: 1:f:~ 
Chirrl8S1 


Saint Mary's College Literary Magazine 
is now accepting Poetry, Fiction and Plays for publication consideration. Please send your work to Corrie Brisson, bris6533@saintmarys.edu, or Meghan Cassidy, cass0593@saintmarys.edu, by November 7th, 2005. 
ambitions are on life support ­the Stedsmen need a win and help from others to have a chance. 
Siegfried will depend on its juggernaut defense to carry it Sunday, as it has all year. 

Throughout its offensive trou­bles, Siegfried has forced turnovers and made defensive scores to carry it to the brink of a playoff berth. 
Siegfried's offense has man­aged only one touchdown all season, and has gotten just as many points this year from kicker Pablo Diaz as it has from offensive skill players. The squad is hoping that it can work out its difficulties against St. Ed's defense before moving on to the playoffs. 
The St. Ed's defense desper­ately needs to forget the 29-0 razing it received at the hands of Zahm and return to more consistent play. 
After holding Sorin to one touchdown, the Stedsmen got torched by Zahm 's rushing attack, giving up big plays by the fistful. Adding to the issues that the Stedsmen have is the fact that they have yet to put any points on the board yet this season. 
After a sloppy close loss to Sorin and a drubbing at the hands of Zahm, a season that started with playoff ambitions is now in danger of being effec­tively ended. 
If the Stedsmen want to play after fall break, they will need to overcome a powerful Siegfried defense. 
Contact Catherine Kane, Chris Hine and James Fegan at ckane2@nd.edu, chine@nd.edu and jfegan@nd.edu 

MEN'S INTERHALL -GOLD LEAGUE 
O'Neill, 'Roos ready for Mod Quad battle 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 

Sunday's game between O'Neill and Keough holds major playoff implications for the Mob, while Keough comes into the game attempting to get its first win of the season. 
O'Neill, which had a bye last week but lost to Morrissey 6-2 the previous week, has had two weeks to prepare for this game, and the Mob has used the extra time to their advantage. 
"The first week we just emphasized going back to fundamentals, but this past week we've been preparing for both the Keough offense and defense," O'Neill cap­tain Matt Hughey said. 
Hughey also said that O'Neill was installing some new offensive plays they felt would be advantageous against the Keough defense. These new plays are intend­ed to get the Mob offense back on track after it was umible to put up any points against Morrissey. 
Keough is also entering Sunday's game with its last result being a loss to Morrissey. 
The Kangaroos were soundly defeated 21-6, as they were unable to stop Morrissey running back Nick Klein, who ran for 141 yards on 18 carries and three touchdowns. 
However, the absence of two of Keough's starting linebackers undoubtedly 
contributed to Klein's stellar performance. 
"We had a lot of inexperi­ence at linebacker because of forced adjustments, and we weren't able to prevent their running game from going outside," Keough cap­tain Zach Brown said. 
The regular linebacker core for Keough will be back to full strength for this week's game, which will make it more difficult for O'Neill to find running. 
The game is Sunday at 1 
p.m. on Riehle FB South. 
Alumni vs. Stanford 

The Dawgs face off against the Griffins in a pivotal bat­tle with a potential playoff spot on the line. 
With both teams stuck in the middle of the competi­tive Men's Gold League, Sunday's contest could ulti­mately be the difference between a ticket to the play­off -and a chance to play in Notre Dame Stadium in the championship game ­and a trip home. 
The contest kicks off at 2 
p.m. on Riehle FB South. 
Dillon vs. Morrissey 

The Big Red and Manorites are slated to meet Sunday afternoon at 3 on Riehle FB South in a Men's Gold League showdown. After vic­tories in its first two games, Morrissey is in prime posi­tion to make a long playoff run. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 


-----, 
Friday, October 7, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
Celebrate National Coming Out Dayl 
FILM: .Ha \ 'ic /~/1 Rose Sunday, ( kt<ihcr 9''' Hegina 152, 7 ::~o pm 
Lndovi(' i~ a young-hoy who cal111 wait lo gTow up to he a "'"'"""· \\'h<'n his I:unilv disn>n·rs thl' littk girl hlossominl{ 
i11 him tht·y art• linTcd to colll<'llllwith their own discomli>rt awl the lack of ullder,t;mdiiiA lium their 11<'11' neiAhhors. It is a llU)\'il' that o.lddn·sst•s traus-J,.'l'THkr and g-t•nder issues in )(l'lll'ral throu)(h the eyes of a child. 
(ltttp:i/www.illl<ll>.conl/titk/ttO I I !).'i90!1ll<lindetails) 
Clfw:-> 
(:it~W.i:,) 
('liJ!h\\'7.) 
'"'":,;'''·') 
c~lillf.i:t.) ~·::A:Z.W-) 

...-.<:>·...;:;.. • ........ 
Ma VieJ~n Rose 
'!«l' lflf.-It" JWd f 

The Process of Coming Out: A Panel Discussion \londay, October I0''' .'i::·~O p.m. Dalloway's 
.\11 important disn1ssio11 about sexual identity and our campus environm<·nt. Lesbian and bisl'~ual ahunuae. l'liiTl'IJl student:-., and l~lcnlty discuss tlu..·ir t.·xrn.·ril·nct·s of contin,!.{ (Hit. ( >nler sontt· J.ttxul food aud a snu,olhit.• aud join us for a ).{l't.'al discussion! 
Celebration of National Coming Out Day Tuesday, October II, .'ipm Dalloway's 
F.at and n·kbratt· :\ational Cmuing ( >ut Dav with SA<;A! (Food will be provi<IL-d.) 
Library Exhibit: Coming Out Stories October I 0 to Octoher I''· Come Sl'l' thl' display aud cutn the tril'ia contest to win Munch Moucy! 
Show your ~upporl and solidarity hy \ve;u·ing Rainbow Ribbons, m·ailahle in the Student Cent<.T, in Madcle\·a, and at the Library! 
Sponsored by lhc Sexual Identity and Diversity CoLT and SAGA (Straight And Gay Alliance) 
MLB PLAYOFFS -AL 
Defending chan1pion Boston needs victories 

Associated Press BOSTON -For once, the Boston Red Sox have history on their side. Heading into Friday's game against the White Sox at Fenway Park, the team that went 86 years between World Series titles is undaunted by Chicago's 2-0 lead. 
After all, these Hed Sox over­came a 3-0 deficit against the New York Yankees to win the AL 
championship last year. They're 8-1 in games in which they faced playoff elimination since 2003. 
And they had the best home record in the majors this season. 
Every experience you have helps you," Roston manager Terry Francona said Thursday. "If players or me or the coaches or somebody can pull something positive from that experience, good." 
The White Sox haven't been World Series champions since 1917, the year before Boston won it -and they're not about to get comfortable now. 
"When your enemy's down, you've got to keep your enemy down," Chicago manager Ozzie Guillen said. "You make some noise and you wake up the mon­ster, you're going to be in trou­ble." 
Freddy Garda, who pitched much better on the road this sea­son, will try to elose out the series for the White Sox. Boston knuckleballer Tim Wakefield will try to prevent that. 
"We've been in this situation before," Wakefield said. "Now that we're baek at home playing in front of our home crowd, there's still a chance." 
Happy 21st & Good luck in the Chicago Marathon! 
Love, Olivia, Trick. Klepto. D-rock. Nick. Erin. Jamie. Bob, Hunter. Jimbo. Dvorsky, Molly, Kathryn, and Lee 

Hopefully now you can get the name right! HAPPY 21 5 T STEPH! 
NOMA 
dine, drink, + be stylish 
Seeking energetic Restaurant Manager Bar Manager Sommelier Bartender Sous Chef Line Cook Dishwasher Food Runner Server and Cocktail Server Bus and Host To be on the ground floor of New Upbeat Fusion Restaurant/Bar In Downtown South Bend. Competitive Benefit Package Available (2 Yrs Experience Required) Fax Resume to 232-3799 

MEN'S SWIMMING 

Irish open new year at 41st Starks Relays 
By JACK THORNTON Sports Writer 
When the defending Big East Champion men's swim­ming team opens its season today at 6:30p.m. at the 41st Dennis Starks Relay at Rolfs Aquatic Center, the exhibi­tion atmosphere will give the squad an opportunity to gauge this year's potential in a thrilling but relaxed atmos­phere. 
"It'll be both exciting and laid-back," head coach Tim Welsh said. "It's exciting because it's everybody's first meet of the season, and it's exciting because relays bring a lot of energy ... and it's laid back for the same reasons ­

because it's that "I don't mean this 10 seniors. first meet of the the the wrong way, "We want to 
year and every­take advantage
but we want to
body is just feel­of the leader­
ing out how they race the clock. " ship while it's are and what here," Welsh they are like." said.
Tim Welsh 
The relay, As the first
Irish coach 
which is named in honor of for­mer Notre Dame swimming coach Dennis Starks, will fea­ture Ball State, Cleveland State, Marquette, Oakland (Mich.), Valparaiso and Wisconsin-Milwaukee. 
Walsh said those are some solid opponents, but his swimmers won't be compet­ing with the men in the next lane. 
"I don't mean this in the wrong way, but we want to race the clock," Welsh said. "When we look at the meet from our point of view, we're not looking at trying to beat a particular team, but rathe_r racing the clock and finding out where we are and getting better." 
After winning its first-ever Big East Title and sending its first swimmer. junior Tim Kegelman, to the NCAA Championship in Minneapolis last year, the team is looking to build on its success in the conference and on the national level. 
"We want to win Beg East again by even a larger mar­gin of victory, and we'd like to send even more guys to the NCAAs at the end," co­captain Patrick Heffernan said. 
Welsh emphasized disci­pline as the key to achieving those goals. 
"With getting faster there's no magic word that will help you achieve that," Welsh said. "It's 'Do we have the skill, do we have the desire, do we have the fitness, the heart and do we have the discipline?' 

"If we improve enough, we'll be Big East Champions. If we improve beyond that, we'll send more than one to NCAA championship and more than that we'll score for the first time at the NCAA championships." 
The squad will have to make up for the loss of grad­uating seniors Matt Bertky, Frank Krakowski, Dave Moison and Andrew Pittman. Nonetheless, experience and leadership should make up for any shortcomings as the Class of 2006 provides the men's swim­ming team with 
contest of the 

season, Friday night will provide coaches with the opportunity to eval­uate each individual swim­mer, but special focus will be put on the freshmen. 
"If this was a football game, everybody gets in; if this was a basketball game, everybody plays a quarter," Welsh said. "What we're looking for is how fit is everybody, how race-ready is everybody, what sort of skill level at racing speeds -do we start well, turn well, breathe properly? But emphasis will be on the freshman because we haven't seen them race in this pool before." 
In addition to talent and the natural level of competi­tiveness, the incoming class will bring with it at least a smidgen of sibling rivalry. Three of the incoming fresh­men have older brothers on the team, something that has never happened in the 21 years that Welsh has been coach. 
"It's kind of funny because we have quite a few fresh­men, but this made assimi­lating them into the group a lot easier, because we've seen a lot of them at meets and practices, so they've added to the family atmos­phere," Heffernan said. 
Contact Jack Thornton at jthom4@nd.edu 
MEN'S GOLF 

Team journeys to Durham 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish will travel to Durham, 
North Carolina to take part in the 
Coca-Cola Duke Golf Classic this 
weekend -the same place where 
head coach Jim Kubinski coached 
for a year and a half before coming 
to Notre Dame. 
Despite the retum to his old team, 
Kubinski is not thinking about the 
homecoming, instead putting 
emphasis on what hi<> team needs to 
do to win. 
''I'm going to approach it as busi­
ness as usual," Kubinski said. "We 
can't have any distractions, and I 
think that would be kind of a dis­
traction. We're ju<>t going to go there 
with business as usual." 
If Notre Dame is going to be suc­
cessful thi<> weekmd, it will have to 
putt well. 
"The only thing that kept us from winning last wenk L<> that we didn't ·make a<> many putt<>," Kubinski said. 

"I think we [have to] putt well, and I think we will because it's our second tournament in a row in the south east. Ifthe putts drop, I think we are hitting the ball as well as anyone in the country." 
The same team that traveled to last weekend's Shoal Creek Intercollegiate will be heading to North Carolina. 
Scott Gustafson, Mark Baldwin, Eric Deutsch, Cole Isban and Greg Hodgers will compete against some of the top ACC and Big Ten schools in the nation. 
"With the field coming, we got a lot of good teams playing there," Kubinski said. "I think you're going to have to shoot some good num­bers, you're not going to be able to just kind of put it in cruL<>e control. We're going to have to play hard, and we're going to have to play well." 
Duke, North Carolina and NC State are three of the ACC teams that will be competing. Big Ten teams Ohio State, Penn State, Northwestern and Minnesota will also play at the course that Kubinski has a lot of appreciation for. 
"I think it's a great golf course," Kubinski said. "It's a great test of golffor us." 
The Irish will look to lsban to con­tinue to lead them this weekend. Isban has been hot lately, with an average under 71 since he shot an 80 in the opening round of the Gopher Invitational. 
"lie's really come into his own and dofinitely had a breakout week last week," Kubinski said. 
Isban finished in first place at Shoal Creek after firing rounds of 69-69-72. He lost in a playofl'to Ea<>t Tennessee State's Rhys Davis, a Great Britain and Ireland Walker Cup player and Tennessee's Jonathon Mount. 
Notre Dame will play Sunday and Monday befi>re returning to South Bend on Monday night. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 

WANTTO GET IN ON THE ACT NEXT SUMMER? 


We're seeking Notre Dame and St. Mary's student actors, directors, stage managers and production assistants in all areas! 
2006 SUMMER APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM Come find out how much fun you could have! 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
F 0 THE  R  OUR CO 2006 PRODUCTION MEDY OF ERRO OF RS  
Thursday, October I 3 5:00 -6:00 PM DecioTheatre,  

DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
Contact Producing Artistic Director Jay Skelton at 631-2636 or gskelton@nd.edu for questions or additional information. 

Friday, October 7, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S SOCCER NO WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
Irish W"ill host No. 9 Connecticut Saturday 
By KATE GALES Associate Spons Editor 
A 1-0 win Wndnesday was just the appntizer needed hef'orn a Saturday night home game against the No. 9 Connneticut lluskies. 
Thn lluskins are first in the Big East and have bnnn ranked as high as No. I this season. 
"Playing oil' any win gets you mornontum," coach Bobby Clark said. "I always say win­ning's a habit and losing's a habit. The morn you win, the more it bocomes a habit, and you want to knep that going." 
After dropping out of the national rankings, the Irish are looking to return to the spot­light with an upset win before going on the road for four straight games. 
"IThn tnam is! very excited for tlw game with Connecticut," Clark said. "This is obviously a big game for us and it'll be a good test for us. This is a good team eoming in ... this will b1~ a vnry good tnst for us." 
The Irish have benn up and down this season. but have not lost since Sept. 25 in a 2-1 horne loss to Cincinnati. Their win against Marquette Wednesday improved the team to 7-3-1 (:{-2-1 Big East). 
Against Marquette, .Justin Md;onrwy marked the only scorn of the contest. Goalkeeper Chris Cahill recorded his fifth shutout of the season with tho 1-0 vietory. Clark said that dnf'ensn was a highlight of the road game. 
"Dale [Hnllasl and Benny Crouse were superb," Clark 
said. "ThP.y were the backbone of the team at MarquP.tte. Marquettn is a very direct team and a vnry aerial team, and we had to handle that threat." 
On the offensive side, the Irish had a 10-7 shot advan­tage, and Cahill recorded two saves. 
"A few other people took their leads from [Hellas and Crouse], and I thought Kurt IMartin I had an excellent game," Clark said. "It really was a tnam performance, there was nobody who didn't play well." 
The win gives the Irish some much-needed momentum going into one of the season's most challenging eontests. 
"It should be an opportunity for us to really get baek into the national prominence," Clark said. "We've been doing well, we've been working away but you want to win a couple of big games, and this should be a niee big game and a nice time in the snason for us to win." 
The game last year at Connecticut drew more than 5,000 spectators, many of them students. Clark hopes that the game will draw a large per­formance, especially as most other sports are oil' or away. 
"We play Connectieut, it's always a huge game," Clark said. 
The tnam will takn the 11eld on Saturday at 7 p.m. With luck, thn momentum will keep coming. 
"A winning habit's a pretty good habit to keep," Clark said. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Playing on the road no probleiTI 
Irish to face St. fohn's and Connecticut in weekend Big East play 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball 
team has put things in per­
speetive. 
Notre Dame takes on St. 
John's at 2 p.m. Saturday and 
then travels to Connectieut to 
face the Huskies at 2 p.m. 
Sunday, in two Big East 
Conference matches. 
They hit the road today for 
the matehes -their ninth and 1Oth away matches in their past 12. Despite the long flights and tiring bus ·rides, the No. 10 Irish aren't eomplaining. Instead, they're 
thankful. 
"One of the things we 
talked about is that we 
played ... at Texas A&M 
against LSU and Tulane 
beeause they don't have the 
facilities, and they don't have 
the hotel availability in Baton 
Houge because 
of the hurri­

"[W}hile it can be a
eane, coach are focused on They've also fallen to solid Debbie Brown difficult stretch, it being them­squads in North Carolina, said. "So was good to play at selves and not Western Kentucky, Clemson they've ILSU on exaetly what and Kentueky.
home last night. " 
and Tulane] their opponents So far, all the East Coast been on the do. f'lights and constant travel road every Debbie Brown "Hight now, hasn't sapped enough energy weekend. we're just wor­out of the Irish to slow them
Irish coach 
"And I think rying about down on the court. Winners they've [the ourselves," jun­of five straight, they'll Irish I done a good job of ior defensivn speeialist!libero attempt to keep the momen­reminding themselves that Danielle Herndon said. "We tum going this weekend. there are other teams that respect our opponent as we "Hight now, we're just are on the road more, and always do." excited just to play again while it can be a diffieult The Hed Storm heads into because we didn't feel wn stretch, it was good to play at the weekend with a deceiving played the way we wanted to home last night [against overall record. They're only against Valpo," Herndon said. Valparaiso]." 1-2 in Big East play and are 
Brown said the Irish ean looking to get a streak going. Contact Tom Dorwart at wait their turn to play at In their last match, they tdorwart@nd.edu 
home more often, and she swept Seton llall 30-25, 30­believes her team will contin­25, 30-21. ue to do just 11ne on the road. "Tiwy haven't played a rnal 
"We know we'll be on the strong scheduln, so they have road a little bit more, and played well against some then we'll get our chance to tnams, but it makns it a little be home too, so I don't think bit dif'l1eult Ito rnadl," Brown it's been too big of a negative said. "They have a couple of 
factor,"  she  freshmnn  that  
said.  are starting, and  
Despite play­ing eight out of their past 10  "Right now, we're just worrying about  one of thnir best players from last year is not back,  
matches on  thn  ourselves."  so wo don't know  
road, the Irish  much about tlwir  
went 9-1 in that time period, have won five  Danlelle Herndon defensive specialist  personnel. "We just can't get as good of a  
straight and sit  read on them just  
at 12-1 overall  becausn  of  the  
and 3-0 in the Big East. schedule they've played." 


St. John's has played a total The Huskins have struggled of only six nxtra gamns this for most of the beginning of entire month-and-a-half old the season. They sit at S-7 volleyball season. They either overall and 1-2 in the Big sweep or get swept. Still, the East. In some of their most Hed Storm has a solid 15-5 notable losses, they were overall record, and a 1-2 Big swept by No. 6 and Big East East mark. As newcomer Louisville (14-0) usual, the Irish and by No. 12 Arizona (11-2). 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles look to rebound against Hope after loss to Kalainazoo 
2-0 Flying Duteh vietory. Hope's Unnae Klompmaker and College. stull'," midfielder Carrie Orr said. By KYLE CASSILY Hope currently holds second­Sarah Coehrane scored the two The last time these two rivals "We have played some of the best Sports Writer plaee in MIM standings with a 7-goals that propelled the Flying met, Saint Mary's goalkeeper teams around. We know that and 
1 mark, and the Belles reside a Duteh over the Belles in the early Laura Heline made five key stops we think we can play with any­
The year's mantra of staying spot below in third, holding a 5-3 season game. Coehrane and while her peer in the opposing one." positive and just finding a way to eonference standing. Immediately Klompmaker are No. 1 and No. 2, goal, Holly Nestle, turned away 10 The game will mark the turning get into the baek of the net exud­below Saint Mary's lurk Albion respeetively, in goals thus far for shots. point in the season. The Belles ed by Belles soeeer coach Caryn and Kalamazoo, each with a 4-3 Hope, and will provide a talented Hope's only loss this year has have now faeed every MIM oppo­Macknnzie faces il'i toughest ehal­record, whieh seek to upend the threat to a battle-hardened Belles' eome at the hands or another nent and will see them all once lnngn of the year this weekend. Belles in the remaining game defense. Belles' rival, Calvin College. The again before the season ends. 
The Belles will host rival Hope each has with the Saint Mary's The Flying Dutch provide other undefeated Calvin strikers The rivals will play at noon College on their home pitch, one women. challenges on the opposite end of knocked off Hope 2-0. The loss tomorrow at Saint Mary's, the game after a tough 1-0 loss to "I have eonl1denee in our tal­the field. Defender Ashleigh was Hope's first on their home­Belles' last home game bdore fall Kalamazoo College on Tuesday. ent," Mackenzie said. "It's only a MeNeil was voted the MIAA field sinee 2001, posting a 24-0-1 break. This is the seeond meeting of matter of us believing in ourselves defensive player of the week for reeord during the win streak. Saint Mary's and Hope on the and playing hard for the whole 90 the previous week, after baek­"Every game we have played, Contact Kyle Cassity at year, the last battle msulting in a minutes." boning a 3-0 shutout of Adrian we have seen some really good kcassily@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, October 7, 2005 
East 
continued from page 24 
with the amount of undefeated teams ahead of them in the country. 
"I think the only thing we can control is us," Waldrum said. "I think we need to win as many of the remaining games as we pos­sibly can. Unfortunately, there are some teams in front of us ... that haven't lost yet. We'd prob­ably need a little bit of help to get a No.4 seed." 
But before the Irish can worry about seeding in the NCAA tour­nament, they have to deal with winning this weekend against the two Big East teams from New Jersey. 
In Hutgers and Seton Hall, Notre Dame will encounter two very difl"erent opponents. 
Waldrum expects Rutgers to attack the Notre Dame defense, something that most teams avoid when they play the Irish, opting instead to wait for an Irish mistake. 
"I think Rutgers is going to 

Relays 
continued from page 24 
girls take a lot of stock in know­ing that I've been here and I've been through what they're going through," Nixon said. "I know with midterms coming up this week how tired you get, and I know how hard it is to push through it, but I know you have to keep pushing. 
"I love Notre Dame, and I hope that bleeds into the girls." 
Key for the upcoming season will be the return of team MVP Katie Carroll. 
''I'm so pumped up for Katie ­she's a great leader," Nixon said. "She understands the meaning of hard work and really embraces that. She's really great, and she's a joy to have around. In order to be a top-10 program, we have to have athletes that are in the top 10 in their respective events. One of those is Katie Carroll." 
Nixon said that Carroll, who earned All-America honors last year, played an important role in making sure the coaching change went smoothly. 
"She's been a big part of [the 
R66 
PH I l A 

come out and try to play us," Waldrum said. "They always have. They are not a team that really sits back. 
"They've been one of the Big East teams that has been fairly successful against us the last few years, and the games have all been close." 
Waldrum anticipates a close game with not a lot of goal scor­ing because of the intensity that Rutgers will bring after strug­gling in the Big East so far this season. 
Seton Hall is a team that is usually very aggressive, some­times so much so that Waldrum is not sure whether or not their attitude is over the top. 
"[Seton Hall has] no real, real special players, but it is a really physical team," Waldrum said. "Almost borderline, is it good, clean physical play or is it cross­ing the edge a little bit into the other side?" 
The Irish will play Rutgers Friday at 7 p.m. and will chal­lenge Seton Hall Sunday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
transition] as far as helping me realize what we were missing last year, what things we can do better," Nixon said. "She and I have a great relationship, so it's easy for us to talk about those things." 
The format for the Stark relays will be different from other meets. There will be only one individual contest, one-meter diving. Most of each team's score will come from a series of relays. 
Nixon said the format will be a big help to freshmen Claire Hutchinson, Christa Riggins and Casey Wagner, who will all be competing in their first collegiate meet. 
"It's kind of an icebreaker for the freshmen," Nixon said. "It gives them a chance to be in the team atmosphere without the individual pressure of perform­ing or trying to prove themselves in the first meet. A lot of fresh­men feel like the have to do their lifetime best in the first meet, and this relay format just takes a lot of pressure off them." 
The meet begins at 6:30 p.m. today at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

Beaut:ifl.tl acoustic guitars. Pick one up. 
VV"V\I'"W. RC;G•nu.sic.con:• 
ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cuisine 

............L____,"t};&.-+-----­
Open: Tues.-Sat. llam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. andMon. closed) Dine-In • Tq/ce-Out • Catering 
------------~~~~-----------­
We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North 
(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 We are located in Roseland area, near Pendle Road on 3 I 
Popik 
continued from page 24 
20-yard line. 
The game began with a 60­yard score by Farley on the fourth play of the series, and Farley was able to quickly intercept the ball on PE's ensu­ing drive. They were unable to score, and PE scored on 77­yard completion to Megan Conway. The rest of the half was all Farley, with their third and fourth touchdowns going for 58 and 18 yards, respective­ly. PE got one last chance to score before halftime, but time ra,n out just after they made their way onto Farley's side of the field. 
"It was an amazing game," Popik said. "I was very pleased. I just wish we had played bet­ter earlier in the season." 
Farley's playoff status is still in doubt, but the squad has put itself in a good position to make the postseason with this win. Popik and Duran both stressed the importance of their coach­ing staff, some of whom are members of the Keenan inter­hall team, in their win as well. 
"The coaches have done a great job," Duran said. "They come straight from their own practices to coach us." 
In addition to Duran's touch­down reception, Jenny Rolfs caught two scoring passes from Popik, and Kim Crehan caught one. 
Paul and Pat Rigney, brothers who coach the PE team, were proud of their team despite the loss. 
'The girls really played hard, showed a lot of effort," Pat Rigney said. "We gave up some big plays, got unlucky, and that made the difference." 
Paul also acknowledged the tough matchup. "Farley was talented -they had a lot of good players," Paul 
Rigney said. "We've just got to work hard for Sunday." 
Pangborn 21, Welsh Fam. 6 
The Pangborn Phoxes put up 21 unanswered points in the first half and were able to hold off a second-half Whirlwind offensive effort to win over Welsh Family Thursday. It was the second straight victory for a Pangborn squad that sought to prove itself against the team that denied it an unbeaten sea­son last year. 
The Phoxes found their rhythm early, jumping out to a 21-0 lead in the first half behind an impressive offensive performance. Katie Mooney connected with Katie Riemersma and Brinn Johnson for touchdown catches, and Trish Connelley ran for another as the Phoxes took a command­ing lead into halftime. 
The Pangborn defense did its part by preventing a Whirlwind score in the first half. Amanda Dosch came out with a momen­tum-shifting interception early on to help keep the Phoxes on top 21-0 going into halftime. Pangborn captain Katie Murray was pleased with her team's play in the first period. 
"The first half was just amaz­ing," Murray said. "We really just need to be playing like that the whole time." 
"Our offense came out really strong and we were just really pumped coming into the game," Johnson said. "Our defense played awesome as well." 
Though the Pangborn offense took charge early, a motivated Welsh Family squad came out strong in the second· half and shut down what had appeared to be an unstoppable Pangborn attack. Though the Whirlwinds could not come up with the vic­tory, coaches Tom Chesnick and Ben McClain were pleased with their team's second half effort. 
"We're proud of the girls' sec­ond half performance, and the effort they showed despite being down three scores," Chesnick said. "Even though we took the loss, there are still definitely some good things that come out of the game." 
In addition to an impressive second half defensive perform­ance, the Whirlwind offense also came out strong after half­time. The Whirlwinds drove to the Pangborn 3-yard line but were unable to score due in large part to a stingy Pangborn defense which tipped two pass­es at the goal line. On the next Welsh Family possession, Melissa Sands connected with Jenni Gargula for 16-yard touchdown but, with time run­ning out, it was too little, too late for the Whirlwinds. 
"We were able to make some good adjustments after the first half," McClain said. 
"We were till able to get right back in it even after being down by three scores." 
Pasquerilla West 13 Breen-Phillips 6 
The Purple Weasels knocked off the Babes in Women's Interhall Gold League action Thursday. 
The Weasels scored two unanswered touchdowns after Breen-Phillips took a 6-0 lead. 
Maureen Spring scored both touchdowns for the Weasels, with a game-tying catch and an interception return for a touch­down with just over two min­utes left in the game, sealing the victory for Pasquerilla West. 
The Weasels took the lead on the ensuing possession after the Babes' go-ahead touch­down. Spring's reception, com­bined with a successful extra point, gave Pasqerilla West a lead it would not relinquish. 

Contact Tim Kaiser at 
tkaiser4@nd.edu and Jason Galvan at jgalvan@nd.edu 
"Past Achievements, Current Status, and Perspectives ofthe International Protection of Human Rights" 
atalk by 

Judge Antonio Augusto Can~ado Trindade, Notre Dame Law School Judge James J. Clynes, Jr. Visiting Chair in the Ethics ofLitigation within the Judicial Process 
Friday, October 7 Law School courtroom 4:00p.m. 

--------~ 
Friday, October 7, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROISSANTWORLD 
--~~~~~~~~~~==~======~~~~~~~~~~==~~==============~ 
JOCKULAR 
ALEC WHITE & ERIC POWERS 


ADAM FAIRHOLM 


CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 


Edited by Will Shortz No. 0826 
59 Counting  
method  
60 N.F.L. coach  
known as  
"Ground  
Chuck"  
61 Best dramatic  
actress Tony  
winner of  
1948, 1978  
and 1983  
62 Yards on the  
ground, e.g.  
DOWN  
1 Spurt  
2 Renovation  
3 Pirate legend  
4 Blocked  
5 Yet undecided  
6 Some summer  
residents  Puzzle by Joe DIPietro  
7 Gears up  26 Without  37 Water chestnut,  43 Business needs  
8 New Eng.  (nonchalantly)  e.g.  48 Really warped  
school 9 Dump  28 Fare after oral surgery, say 29 Do as Niobe  38 Eye 39 Infatuated with  49 Screen symbol 50 Kind of pad  
10 Alarm function  did  40 Dope  52 It runs down a  
11 Appointed time  30 Flat  41 Words of  limb  
12 Response facilitator: Abbr.  36 Oration station  sympathy 42 Deck material  53 Noodge 55 Heavenly altar  
13 Linear  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~*::+.~:-! 
l!lllll!lt-:-1~7+7.-t-::::ti:t-:-t~::-t 
11!111111!11111~.;.;.+~-:-I!!!IP!!~-F+i::-F.t-:-11-:-1 
-=+=+~-:i 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
19 Key card For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a issuer credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 21 Second hand: crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
Abbr. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 

25 Amanda's role past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). on "Married ... Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young With Children" solvers: nytimes.com/learninq/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
..
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
MYTIA 
j

CJ r II 
te2005 Tribune Media Se!Vices, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
KERPI 
lxJ
I I I 
LEHTAH 
± 
www.jumble.com
tMAIDDY t 

J I I J I 
Answer: IT 

WAS"( I I I I I I I)" 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: CHAMP VAGUE SCRIBE CUDGELYesterday's Answer: What the art students did before the big exam ­
"BRUSHED" UP 
EUGENIA LAST 
HoRoscoPE 

ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You're in a much better mood now. The universe has tossed a strong dose ofchange into the astrological mix --and that's the sort of thing that invigorates you like nothing else possibly could.••• 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Whether you're ordinarily fond ofchange or not, this is one of those times when, oddly enough, you'll lind yourself enjoying it. Sure, it might be because you've arranged it, but it's still a step in the right direction.*** 
GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): If there's anyone you'll want to he with now, it's the same someone you always think of when you're in the mood to laugh. As it happens, they're most likely available. Better call before their dance card fills up, though.** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You're feeling better than you have in a long time, not just physically, but emotionally and mentally as well. Don't question it and don't overanalyze what's behind that grin. Just keep grinning. •••• 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): All puns aside that refer to your love of and talent for drama, life will be a celebratory cast party now, complete with toasts, pats on the back from all parties concerned and even some media coverage. • •• 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): There's a mixed bag of heavenly energies shullling around upstairs at the moment, but they've all got one end in mind: to put you in the mood to have some unadulterated fun with your loved ones. Why tight it?** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You were so full of tact and diplomacy yesterday that you could easily have flown overseas and successfully negotiated a surrender between at least two warring factions. Now, however ... well, that's a difTerent story.** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):Thought about buying some land or making another investment? Well, think a bit longer. This isn't the right time to put your signature to any manner ofofficial document that will bind you to another. Wait. Do some investigating.•• 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You've never been shy, but at the moment, you'll not only be outgoing ... well, let's just say that if you don't make a serious effort to tone it down a notch or two, you might be just a tad too primed for prime-time. • 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): When it comes to secrets, you're usually an expert, but right about now, that's probably not the case. Better stop anyone who pulls you aside with 'that look' on their face before even one guilty word escapes their I ips.* 
AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You're not just up for some fun. You're up for some serious fun. In fact, there's not much you won't agree to, especially if it's dangled at the end of a stick being held hy the right person.**** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Contrary to popular opinion, authority ligures aren't always out to get us, even if the last ten experiences we've had with them seem to prove exactly the opposite. You're due to add that experience to your memory book right now.** 
Website: horoscopes.astrology.com 

The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame. IN 46556 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRlON 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

WHY THE: SCARF WAS INTRODUC.!:O AS E:VIDE:NC.E:. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

ACROSS 1 Transgresses 5 Expostulate 
10 "Now I get it," facetiously 14 Substance 15 Hard to read, perhaps 16 Stable shade 17 Way to stand by 18 Among those attending 20 Some rigging supporters 22 Gone bad 23 Radiator output 24 N.F.L. nail-biters 25 Guarantee 27 Spheres 31 Critical step in analysis 
32 Richardson of Nixon's cabinet 33 Printed 34 In the capacity of 35 Cardinal features 39 Betty Boop trademark 44 Ump's cry 45 History book feature 46 Counselors' org. 47 Tacit 48 Coy expression 51 Verging on tears 54 Tension easer 56 It went through Memphis 57 "Juke Box Baby" singer 58 Clamorous 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, October 7, 2005 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Battle preparation 
Weis says he wants to accomodate fans with stadium rally 
By MIKE GILLON 
Sports Editor 
Disappointed that several thousand fans were turned away from last month's Michigan State pre-game pep rally, Irish coach Charlie Weis spurred the decision to move next Friday's USC pep rally outdoors to Notre Dame Stadium. 
Speaking at his press confer­ence Thursday, Weis said he talked to Notre Dame athletic department officials and encouraged them to move the event to a larger venue after hearing that approximately 5,000 fans were turned away from the Sept. 16 Michigan State rally. 
"I think [if1 the fans want to be going to the pep rally, they should have a venue to be able to go," Weis said. "We just felt it was the best thing for the fans was to give them the opportunity to be a part of the experience." 

Oct. 14's rally will be the first Notre Dame pep rally held in the Stadium since the Irish played No. l Nebraska in 2000. 
Gameday heading to ND 
ESPN's College Gameday program will broadcast from the Notre Dame campus the morning of the USC game, according to Gameday host Kirk Herbstreit. 
"From what I understand Gameday will be in South Bend next weekend, and I can't wait to see my Irish ballclub in per­son," Herbstreit said in an ESPN.com Internet chat ses­sion. 
The former Ohio State quar­terback, who hosts Gameday along with Chris Fowler and Lee Corso, is looking forward to the matchup between the No. 12 Irish and No. 1 Trojans. 
"I'm going to go on record and say that [this] Gameday will be the most hyped-up show that I've experienced in the 10 years I've been on the show," he said. "I can't wait to get to South Bend for that one." 
A little relaxation 
With no game this Saturday, Weis has more time to prepare for USC. But he will also spend a little quality time with his family. 

"First I will get Charlie [Jr.] a haircut Saturday morning, and then I will videotape Maura riding on her horse before that," Weis said of his son and wife. 
Weis then plans to head 

home to watch USC take on Arizona Saturday afternoon. But his leisure time won't last long. 
"We will be in Sunday morn­ing to gameplan USC," Weis said. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Popik and Farley-win againstPE 
By TIM KAISER and JASON GALVAN Sports Writers 
Farley quarterback Katie Popik's touchdown pass in the waning minutes of the second half helped the Finest put the game out of reach of the Pyros of Pasquerilla East Thursday. 
The touchdown was the only score of the second half, and Popik's fourth of the game. She threw for a total of 200 yards in the contest. 
Down 20-6 at the start of the second half, PE lost the ball on downs, but stopped the Farley ofl"ense inside PE's 20-yard line on its next drive. The Farley defense intercepted the ball on PE's first play of the series, but quickly gave the ball back when Courtney Chen intercepted a wayward pass by Popik. The PE offense wasn't able to mount a drive, and Diane Duran set up the ofl"ense for Popik's fourth TO with an interception on the PE 
see POPIK/page 22 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irish travel to coast for two games 
Team will square off against Big East foes in weekend action 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
The defending national champions, treading in some dangerous water with two reg­ular-season losses, will travel to New Jersey this weekend to play Rutgers and Seton Hall. 
Notre Dame (10-2-0, 4-1-0) will need to have an impressive weekend in order to regain its top-tier recognition of teams around the nation. 
"I feel great and confident, but I don't play," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "I think it's a big weekend for us to be able to show everybody around the conference and country that it was just a little slip up, and we're still on track." 
With six regular season games left, the Irish are in a situation where they need to win as many games as possible to assure home-field advantage in the postseason. 


"If we go up there and strug­gle this weekend, we may have some [trouble] through the rest of the season," Waldrum said. 
After Notre Dame's loss Friday at Marquette, Waldrum understands how important every game will be heading into the Big East tournament 
see EASTIpage 22 

ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Team prepares for Dennis Starks Relays 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
Four years ago, Carrie Nixon was preparing for her final Dennis Stark Relays as a mem­ber of the Notre Dame swim team. 
Friday, she will experience her first Stark Relays as head coach of the Fighting Irish. 
The Relays, which traditionally begin the season for the Irish, have been held every year since 1964. This year, Notre Dame will host Illinois State, Ball State, Oakland, Wisconsin-Milwaukee, Valparaiso, Cleveland State and Marquette. 
Nixon said the meet will offer the team an opportunity to gain confidence before the dual meet season, which begins Oct. 28 against California. 
"We have to learn how to race and how to swim our own events so we can go into the dual meets with confidence," Nixon said. 
Nixon, who was promoted to replace former head coach Bailey Weathers after he resigned in March, is attempting to bring a new spirit of team­work and unity to the Irish. 
"The biggest thing that we've changed is the attitude and how we approach the sport of swim­ming," Nixon said. "We try to inspire the girls, make them bet­ter leaders, better athletes, bet­ter people and better students. 
"Our biggest emphasis for the year having a great team, being supportive of each other's strengths and weaknesses and really embracing everything we do as a team together." 
As a Notre Dame graduate, Nixon feels she has a unique bond with her athletes and that she can understand their day-to­day life. · 
'Tm comfortable here, and the 
see RELAYS/page22 


MEN'S SOCCER 
NO VOllEYBAll 

SMC SOCCER MEN'S SWIMIIJUNG SMC GOlf SMC X·COIJNTRY 
1,1,1 
u 

z The Irish host the No. 
Notre Dame faces the 

The Belles look to Notre Dame kicks off The three-time Saint Mary's travels to 
9 team in the country 
Red Storm and the 

rebound against Hope its season today at the defending champion Lisle, Ill. for the Eagle
::5 

Saturday in a battle of 
Huskies this weekend in 

after a 1-0 loss to MIAA 41st annual Dennis Belles take a 22-stroke Invitational, where the
= Big East powers. 
conference play. 

foe Kalamazoo. Starks Relays. lead into the final match Belles have fared well
cc 

of the season. in past years. 
!;: 

page 21 
page 21 

page 21 page 20 page 14 page 14 








