
-----~ 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 46 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER2, 2005 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
NO ratios differ from national gender gap 
Females comprise 44 percent of University student body but 57 percent and rising of college students nationwide 
By KATIE PERRY 
Assistant News Editor 
Morn than 57 pereent of college stu­dents nationwide are female -a num­ber that is expected to grow in the com­ing years -but despite yearly increas­es in the proportion of women at the llnivorsity, thn current 56 to 44 percent male-female ratio starkly contrasts the 
U.S. trnnd. 
Women comprise 57.6 pereent of col­lege students nationwide, according to an Oet. 20 USA Today artide. The 43 to 57 percent male-female ratio grossly diverges from 1960s and 1970s statis­tics -30 years ago women eonstituted 45 percent of university students in the United States. 
The eurrent gap shows no signs of narrowing. The U.S. Department of Edueation estimated that in less than ten years, women will earn 60 percent of bachelor's degrees and more than half of graduate degrees nationwide. 
Gender and enrollment at NO 
The Office of Institutional Hesearch said, this semester 56 percent of Notre Dame students -graduate and under­graduate -were male and 44 percent were female, a 13 percent shift in the favor of men from national enrollment averages. 
Sociology professor Mark Gunty, who teaches a course on the sociology of masculinity, said in his understanding, Notre Dame's ratio is based on the spaee available in residence halls and is not a function of the applicant pool per se. 
"The [ratio! at ND is artificial, just as it is at most private, residential-based colleges and universities, especially those of a more selective nature," 
see GENDER/page 4 

KELLY MACDONALD/Observer Graphic TIM SULLIVANffhe Observer Notre Dame enrolls a lower percentage of female students than the national average. Right, male and female students socialize In Reekers. 



Panel focused on pregnancy care 
By ADRIENNE RUFFNER 
News Writer 
While pro-lifn and pro-ehoice advocates arn polarized on many issues eonenrning abortion, they agreed on one point Monday in LaFortune Ballroom at tiHl Notre Danw Common Ground Project ­society does not do enough to pro­teet and provide for pregnant 
WOJlHHl. 
This was the focus of the forum wlwrn professors and students carne together to diseuss, under­stand and find common coneerns in the abortion debatn, particularly how to help prngnant womnn soeial­ly, financially and mndi1:ally. 
The project was organized by Notre Dame snnior Kaitlyn Hndfield and sponsored by the Feminist 
see ABORTION/page 6 



OIT to initiate wireless authentication soon 
By ALICIA CONLEY 
News Writer 
The Office of Information Technologies (OIT) will soon require students, faculty and staiT who want to access Nomad, the University's wireless Internet net­work, to provide their Notre Dame user name and password in ordnr to log on. 
"It's one of a series of steps that we're taking to help secure Notrn Dame computer resourees better. It helps to ensure that only authorized Notre Dame users arn accessing our network," Katie Hose, project leader at OIT, said Tuesday. 
Without wireless authentication, Hose said it is very easy for an unauthorizod porson to aeeess the University network. 
The problem with this is "they're using rnsourees the University has dosignatml fiJr fac­ulty, stall' and studenL<>. This can cause excessive traflic that can impact authorized users," she said. 
In spite of having extensively prepared for the Notre Dame community to start using this service, the OIT discovered a problem with the systnm a few days after it began on Oct. 19. 
OIT quickly shut down the serv­iee, and on Oct. 24, 01'1' posted tho following mnssage to iL<> Web site: "The rnquirnmnnt to aut.hentkatn to connect to tho Nomad wirnlnss 
see WIRELESS/page 6 


SMC athletes assist with football parking 
By EMILY LAVELLE 
News Writer 
Notre Dame football players may not be thn only ones exhausted at the end of game days. Tailgatns, hours of stand­ing and post-game celobrations oftnn leave the fans drained of erwrgy; but for some Saint Mary's athletns, it is the long hours spnnl supervising f(wtball parking li1r thn SO,OOO fitns that lnavns thorn exhausted. 
Each athlntic team at Saint Mary's dmlieatns their time on onn game-day morning per sea­son direding trafTie into the Saint Mary's lots. The athletie tnarns have been supervising pre-game parking for at least 15 years, if not longer, said Lynn Kachmarik, Saint Mary's athletic director. 
The eflort of SMC student-ath­letes helps finance the teams' expenses and provides a unique bonding opportunity, Kachmarik said. 
To remain eonsistent with other parking options in the arna, Saint Mary's charges $15 per car and raises between $4,000 and $10,000 per week­end, Kachmarik said. The money from nach weekend goes into a general fund until the end of the football season, when each team is given an appropri­
see PARKING/page 6 


Hesburgh featured in film 
By JANICE FLYNN 
News Writer 
The exceptional life of University President Emeritus Father Theodore 1-Iesburgh, which includes extensive public service as well as storied leadership of Notre Dame, has been captured in a documen­tary to air this weekend on the Hallmark Channel. 
"God, Country, Notre Dame" fea­tures interviews with three former 
U.S. presidents, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and former Notre Dame football eoaeh Ara Parseghian, as well as Notre Dame offidal'l, Holy Cross priests and cur­rent studenL<>. 
The film affirms Hcsburgh's laith as the source of his seemingly end­less energy and commitment to 
see HESBURGH/page 6 

Wednesday, November 2, 2005 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
'Tis the season to be offended 
The days of "The Shirt" debates seem to be over. So it's time to move on to bigger and better things to be mad about. 
Tis the season to be offended. My theory is that many of us are · Peter Ninneman still grieving over the loss to USC 
News Wire

and need suitable punching bags to Editor take our aggres­sion out on. 
One campus issue right now is the seemingly troubled relations between South Bend residents and Notre Dame students. Two students were quoted saying some less-than-nice things about South Bend residents, and the city itself, that have created somewhat of a stir. OK, so two students don't think highly of South Bend residents, in particular those of economic stand­ing less than that of the average Notre Dame student; does that mean that the majority of the student body feels the same way? 
We're talking about the same stu­dent body that spends huge amounts of time working in not only the South Bend community, but also with the people of Appalachia and urban Chicago, among other places of dire need. The perception of snobbish, elit­ist students is one that doesn't seem to mesh with reality. I'm not saying everyone is fantastically unprejudiced and perfectly moral, but I hardly think that it is fair to say a large fraction of students are just downright awful big­ots. 
Also in the cam pus scandal mill is a joke/insight about race relations made at a student stand-up comedy event last Thursday. Several students walked away from the event with a sour taste in their mouth, feeling that the joke was intolerant and that those who laughed at the joke were just as bad. Some feel this is telling of the campus climate -that it proves a good portion of our student body is insensitive and intolerant. 
Alright, someone made social com­mentary about race relations at Notre Dame in the context of the recent passing of Rosa Parks -does that make the student body intolerant and racist? I certainly think not. This isn't even considering whether or not the joke, and by extension its author, was racist. 
I'd bet my life that if you surveyed every single student, not one would say that they disagreed with Rosa Parks' actions. So apparently we have another clash between perception and reality. 
It's going to be alright, people. People will say things you don't agree with or just flat out don't like. Heck, this is college. Cool down a little and you'll see that not everyone is out to offend you. Once the smoke settles, you'II see that you were making a big deal out of something that never should have been an issue. 
Besides, there are bigger debates to be had, like on Supreme Court nomi­nations and foreign conflicts. 
Contact Peter Ninneman at pninnema@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO WOULD YOU NOMINATE TO THE SUPREME COURT AND WHY? 



Andy Makielski  Katie Swiss  Jason Briggs  
sophomore Zahm  freshman Lewis  freshman Zahm  
"JeffMikrut, because Creston thinks he's always right. "  "Arnold Schwarzenegger, because he's not , a girly man.  "Myself, because I'm a minority. ,  

Man kills buck with bare hands in bedroom 
BENTO~LLE, Ark. -It looked like a crime scene, but no charges will be filed after Wayne Goldsberry killed a buck with his bare hands in his daughter's bed­room. 
The engagement lasted an exhausting 40 minutes, but Goldsberry finally subdued the five-point whitetail deer that crashed through a bed­room window at his daugh­ter's home Friday. When it was over, blood splattered the walls and the deer lay on the bedroom floor, its neck broken. 
Goldsberry was at his 



Catherine Martinez freshman Cavanaugh  Mike Folger freshman Zahm  Katie Rose Hackney freshman Badin  
"Mike Folger, because he's so  "Kobe because that would be  "Charlie Weis, because he's  

Kobe." 

before fleeing with $3,000. 
A security camera showed the intruder playing pizza chef after breaking into Sonny's Pizza and Pasta through a bathroom win­dow early Monday, said Lt. Ted Boyne of the Orange County Sheriff's Department. 
The burglar put on an employee's shirt after enter­ing the pizza parlor about 2 a.m., then he made a pizza, spreading sauce, cheese and pepperoni over the dough and placing it in the oven, the lieutenant said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
daughter's home when he heard glass breaking. He went back to check on the noise and found the deer. 
"I was standing about like this peeking around the cor­ner when the deer came out of the bedroom," said Goldsberry, demonstrating while peering around his kitchen wall. The deer ran down the hall and into the master bedroom -"jump­ing back and forth across the bed." 
Burglar makes pizza, flees with $3,000 
SAN CLEMENTE, Calif. ­A pizza parlor burglar paused to make a pizza 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

..... 
c( (,) 0 

HIGH 60

.... 
LOW 52 


HIGH LOW 


67 
49 

HIGH LOW 
,

Kobe." straight nasty. 
IN BRIEF 

Muslim authors Chahdortt Djavann and lrshad Manji will give a lecture entitled "Removing the Veil: 1\vo Muslim Women's Re-examination of Islam" at 
4:30 p.m. today in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The joint lec­ture is free and open to the public and will be followed by a question and answer session, reception and book signing. 
The Department of Sociology and the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts will sponsor speaker Pamela J. Smock from the University of Michigan Thursday as part of The Provost's Distinguished Women's Lecturer Series. The lecture will take place from 11 :30 a.m. to 
1:30 p.m. in G-20 Flanner Hall and will focus on "Living Together Unmarried in the United States: Demographic Perspectives and Implications for Family Policy." 
Ana Garcia Rodicio, visiting fellow at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, will present a lecture titled "Post­Genocide Transitional Justice: The Process of Cambodia in Dialogue with Bosnia and Rwanda" at 4:15p.m. Thursday at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
"Open Doors to the Physics Labs" will take place Saturday from 9 a.m. to noon in Nieuwland Science Hall. Professor Chris Kolda will speak from 10 a.m. to 11 in room 118 on "God's Dice: Einstein and the Journey from the Wedgewood Kilns to the Uncertainty 
Principl~." 

To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

62 47 


60 
41 


Wednesday, November 2, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Lecturers discuss '-who counts in the United States' 
our govornment," hn said. hurts tlw finandally strug­
Hilny spoke about her work gling peoplo. with Catholic soeial teachings She also said the l'lood ol' and how "fren trade" nega­American imports saturate tively affects the poorer coun­thn nconorny, ovnrwlwlming tries involved in local and small 

FREEBIES ISUB$ & ClUB$ ONLVJ Onion. lettuce, alfalfa sprouts. tomato. mayo. sliced cucumber, Dijon mustard. oil & vinegar. and oregano. 
WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK~ 
54570 H. IRONWOOD DR. SOUTH BEND/MISHAWAKA 5343 N. MAIN ST. 
57 4.277.8500 57 4.968.4600 
''YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOHN'S!'' © 


l\y LIZ HARTER 
News Wrirrr 
A p r of•~ s so r. a n u n . an author and a dPvnlopment program dirndor came togo tlw r Tunsd ay to dise uss "Who Counts in the United Statns?"-thP sneond lecturn on the 2005-06 first year tlwme at Saint Mary's Carroll Auditorium. 
This f'irst year theme, which is chosen evnry spring by a group of profnssors and the Centnr for Academic Innovation, is intended to crn­atn a senso of intellectual community, particularly among first year studnnts. 
Tunsday's lectun~ to about IJO attnndeos oxpanded on the ideas presontod by Faith Adiele and Margo Anderson 
in tho first leetu ro of the enntration of power in tho sories on Snpt. 27. U.S. governmont, which, he 
"The question of who said, is replieatnd throughout counts in the Americas begs the generations. While thern the quostion 'who doesn't are rules in placn that allow count?"' said anybody to make Maurice Guev-his or her way 
ora, profossor of "The question of into political English at the power and
who counts in the

University of become a sena­Wisconsin. Americas begs the tor, congressman Guevera was question 'who or oven sehoul joined by Sr. board president,
doesn't count?"' 

Maria Hiley, an that will most Adrian Dominie­likely not hap­an nun; Betsy Maurice Guevara pen, he said. Hartman, the professor Guevera cited director of the the Bush and Population and Kennedy families Development Program at as examples in which many Hampshire College; and members of the same class Brenda Cardenas, author of are involved in politics. From the Tongues of Brick "These same people always and Stone. rule, so how can we expect a 
Guevera focused on the con-lower class person to count in 
trade agree­
ments. "F'ree trade favors 
She cited the the economically new Central 
powerful countries 
American Free 
in this world. " 
Trade Agreement (CAFTA), which was passed this 
Maria Riley 
summer and 
Adrian Dominican nun
includes Nicar­agua, Costa Rica, Honduras, El Salvador and the Dominican Republic. 
"Free trade favors the eco­nomically powerful countries in this world," she said. 
While free trade is widely thought to help poorer coun­tries, Hiley said it actually 
industries in countries and making them 

more  dependent  
on  exporting  
their  quickly  

depleting natural I'llSOurces. 

Hartman foe­used on the role of rich con­sumers and young workers, who, she said, count in the 
u.s. 
She specified that "young workers" counted because of the growing trend of compa­nies laying off older men and women. 
Hartman also spoke on the scare tactics used by peopln in favor of population control, like white suprnmacist groups. She said population has almost lwconw a National Security Crisis IH~ cau s n groups have subtly implanted in nv•~ryonn's mind that tlwrn are "too many young mnn prone to violence in thn Middle East." 
Cardenas, who spokn last. was most focused on Latino ;\merieans in the Unitt>d States. Slw lived in a bat·rio on the Southwest side of' Chicago l'or a l'ew years and said she saw firsthand how the immigrants in Anw rica stay connected to their coun­try of origin hy constantly traveling hark and forth. "not caring if' it was lngal or ill•~­gal," she said. 
Cardenas said tlwn~ is a bit of' cultural syncretism because pnople arn assimilat­ing into Anwriean •~tllturn but do not want to givn up their culture from home. 
Cardenas recallnd wlwn slw taught at Wright College in Chicago, which, at the timo, had a 48 percent Latino pop­ulation, but only offered one Latino Studios course. 
"If that's not saying some­thing about who eounts, I don't know what dol)s," she said. 
Contact Liz Harter at 
eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
r------------------, : VERA BRADLEY : 
1 20% off with ND/SMCStu.I.D. 1 
L------------------J 
I  I  
I  ~ltf!~U~U  :  
1  East Bank Emporium R,'Stauranl Bldg  1  
1  121 S. Nik"!! Ave., (574} 232-8488  I  

Want to write for Nevvs? Contact Heather at 1-5323. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 2, 2005 
but maintained that vestiges of pre-1972 campus life continue
Gender 

to be present. "Notre Dame's traditions and
continued from page 1 

culture are very strong, some of Gunty said. "At places with co­which date back to its all-male ed housing, the mix can be roots," Gunty said. more variable. of course, so the The USA Today article said single-sex housing arrangement the national gender gap is here contributes to the very sta­largest at liberal arts colleges. ble ratio of men "We have a broad to women over mix of majors here, the years." "We really don't and I doubt that 
But Director of our program offer­
know why Notre 
Admissions Dan ings have much
Dame's experience 
Saracino said impact on the gen­Notre Dame's is truly different. der mix of the stu­enrollment dent body," Gunty
We only know that 
reflects its appli­said.
it clearly is unique. 
cant pool which Despite the diver­has been "con­It is conceivable sity of curricula sistently" more offered at the
that we could begin 
male than University, Gunty
to reflect what 
female since the said it is "clear" University began other colleges are that some majors enrolling women experiencing. are more attractive · in 1972. to males than 
"While the females.
Dan Saracino
number of Although many women appli­director of admissions areas of study have cants has defi­equitable propor­nitely increased tions of male and over the past 33 years, in recent female students, records from years the percentage of women the Office of Institutional applicants has remained steady Research corroborate Gunty's 
Freshmen Benjamin Whiting and Jennifer Heenan study in the Coleman Morse lounge Tuesday. at 4 7 percent," Saracino said. claim. Of all computer engi­Women are a minority of the Notre Dame student body, unlike at many other universities. 
Although the percentage of neering majors, females women has risen steadily over account for three percent, minorities in order to increase identify and target under-repre­Gunty said women have made the past three decades, the rate while 92 percent of all students the college's racial diversity. sented groups with special strides in academic accomplish­of increase is less than national who major in art history are Similarly, in 2000, a federal recruitment activities, is some­ments, and the options for averages and men continue to women. judge said the University of thing which could be imple­women to pursue occupations outnumber women on campus. The enrollment of men in Georgia must stop awarding mented should we deem it nec­outside the home are much 
Percentages of women post-secondary schools may extra points to minorities -as essary." wider than they were in past enrolled at the University also reflect sociological trends well as males. Gunty said he doubts college generations. climbed steadily throughout the in the way men perceive educa­The USA Today article said a admissions policies will have "I would not conclude that the mid-1970s and saw even more tion and academic achievement. 2005 study in the admissions much impact on the gender gap in male-female college significant Gunty said senior method of 13 liberal arts col­makeup at colleges and univer­enrollments is simply a sign of change in the survey results indi­leges found that "gender was sities. female progress in academia," 1980s, but for cate that women at not a significant determinant" "The issues affecting a per­he said. "I know of no one who
"One type of
the last five Notre Dame do in the admissions process. son's choice to attend college would argue that the so-called
masculinity clearly 
years the pro­study more than Saracino said he personally start way back in childhood and 'chilly climate of higher educa­portion of associates intellect men; however, the does not support a system in carry on throughout all levels of tion' -the female-unfriendly women has stag­extent to which which colleges grant men pref­schooling, and many of those environments at most colleges
and expertise as
nated at 44 per­academic perform­erential treatment in admis­issues have gender overtones -has been replaced by a pro­
good for male 
cent. ance is regarded as sions decisions. and undertones," he said. female climate." Saracino said gender identity, a benefit or detri­"It is a form of discrimina­The progress of women is although there ment to one's mas­tion," he said. "Acting 'affirma­another factor that has con­Contact Katie Perry at
and for other 
has been no culinity is mixed. tively,' however, in which we tributed to the trend. kperry5@nd.edu 

types, intellect is 
research con­"At various ages, ducted to explain de-emphasized in males might look at why Notre Dame academic success
favor ofphysical
has not experi­in either a positive
strength."
enced a further or negative light," rise in female Gunty said. "One enrollment, the Mark Gunty type of masculinity University is clearly associates
sociology professor
"carefully" moni­intellect and toring trends in expertise as good gender ratios -among other for male gender identity, and characteristics -present in the for other types, intellect is de­applicant pool each year. emphasized in favor of physical 
"We really don't know why strength." Notre Dame's experience is Much depends on the subcul­truly different," Saracino said. ture of a man's networks, Gunty "We only know that it clearly is said. unique. It is conceivable that we "Overall, the status of boys could begin to reflect what with regard to education and other colleges are experienc­schooling is a hodgepodge," he ing." said. "Boys seem to reap bene­
fits unavailable to girls, but theySociological implications are also troubled by convention­
The recent trend has caused al schooling practices more many researchers to look into than girls." the potential sociological impli­Gunty also said the structural cations of the decreasing num­economic incentives are not the 
ber  of  men  same  for  both  
enrolled  post­ sexes.  
secondary edu­ "Boys seem to reap  "Males without a  
cation. In the USA Today article,  benefits unavailable to  college education can expect higher paying jobs than  
writer Michael  girls, but they are  females with a col­ 
Gurian said some colleges attract fewer  also troubled by conventional  lege education," he said.  
men because those institutions are more direct­ schooling practices more than girls. "  Confronting the issue As when faced  
ed at female aca­ with other forms of  
demic  endeav- Mark Gunty  disparity in its stu­ 
ors. must  Colleges garner  sociology professor  dent populations ­in race, religion or  
more male appli­ socioeconomic  

cants by emphasizing such background -colleges are "male" interests as sports, he looking to solutions that foster said. diversity in a fair manner. 
Gunty was unsure as to A 2003 Supreme Court deci­whether Notre Dame's culture sion rejected the University of of athletics encounters an anti­Michigan formula that awarded liberal arts bias among men, bonus admissions points to 
"Undergraduate Research in Arts and Letters: Opportunities for Students" 
November 3, 2005 5:00-6:30 Coleman-Morse Lounge 
The purpose of this forum will be to provide students with information about two important sources of fund­ing for undergraduate research-the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program and the 
Undergraduate Intellectual Initiative. Six undergraduate recipients of these awards will speak about theirexperience of writing proposals, 
conducting their research, and seeing their projects to completion. 
Sponsored by the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts and the Office of Undergraduate Studies 







ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, November 2, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WlRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Teenagers riot in France after deaths 
PAHIS -Tnnsion mounted Tuesday in tho trouhlnd suburbs of Paris. al'tnr angry youths tordwd 1:ars. garbage bins and oven a pri­mary school in rioting that highlights tho division bntwnm1 Francn's big eitins and their poor satl>llilns. wlwm unnmploymnnt soars and disnnchanlnwnl thriv11S. 
Ol'lkials in Paris and tlw northnastnrn sub­urb of' Clichy-sous-Bois. whern thn aeeidental dnat.hs of' two tnnnagt~rs triggnrnd the riots that. lwgan Thursday. worked to prnvent a sixth night or violnnel~. 
Policn said I1) pnopln worn detained latn Monday and narly Tuesday in Clichy-sous­l!ois and thrnP othnr suburbs. and 13 rnmairwd jailnd. A total of' (JX ears wnrn t.orrhPd in several suburbs, LCI television r!'portnd. whiln polir.n said 21 ears -two of' t.lu~rn polic:n vnhiclns -wnre snt on lire in ( :tirhy-sous-Bois. 
Israel allows Gaza border inspectors 
<;AZA CITY. c;aza Strip-Israel on Tunsday approvnd tlw dPploynwnt of l•:uropnan inspnc­lors at tlu~ c;aza-1\gypl bordnr. a brnakthrough aftpr wnnks of slow-moving talks and a nu~jor slnp toward giving tlw l'alnstinians frm~dom of movnnwnl without. lsranli controls for t.hn lirst tilllP in f(nlr dnradns. 
As ru•got.iators lriPd to rnsolvn rmnaining dis­pUI.l~S ovnr nnw sncurity arrangnnwnts on thn l'rontinr. lsraPI kiiiPd two top Palnslinian fugit.ivns in a missiln attack on t.lwir ears. triggnring thrnaL<> of rnvnngn by militants that could further nrodn tlw fragiln tnwn bntwnm1 the two sides. 
lsranl's Senrrity Cabinnt agrm~d to deploy llw l·:uropnan inspndors to rnpla1:n Israeli bordnr pnrsomwl. who had controlled Palnstinian movn­nwnl in and out of Gaza since capturing the ter­ritory in t.hn 1<J(J7 Midnast. war. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Hispanics attend worst schools 
WASIIINGTON-llispanic children are rnudr morn likr.ly than white or black students to atllmd llw nation's largest and poorest pub­lie high schools. a nnw analysis shows. 
Morn than half of llispanic teens. 56 per­cnnl. attend schools with enrollments of roughly l,XOO students-schools that rank in the 1J0th percentile in tnrrns of size. Only 32 percent of black children and 26 percent of while children attend schools that large, ac1~ording to the Pew llispanic Center, a non­prolit n~snarch group that studios the Latino popu lat.ion. 
Court debates religious freedom 
WASIIINC;TC>N-Tlw Supnnne Court debated Tuesday wlwthnr to let a small wngn~gal.ion in Nnw Mnxieo worship with hallueinogm1ic tna, tlw lirsl religious free­dom disputo under Chief Justice John l!olwrts. 
Juslil~n Sandra Day ()'Connor sonmod skeplir.al of tlw Bush administration's daim that t.lw t.ea can lw banrwd. but shn may not lw around to votn in tho 1:aso. 
About I:w nwrnbnrs ol' a Brazil-based church havo bem1 in a long-running disputo with federal agents who seized their toa in 
It) 1JIJ. Tho hoasca loa. which contains an illngal drug known as DMT. is considernd sacrod to members of 0 C:ontro Espirita lkrwlkinntn Uniao do Vegetal. 
Tlw Bush administration contends the tea is not only illeg;tl but potentially clangorous. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Governor orders tribute for Parks 
INiliANAPOI.IS -To honor dvil rights ieon Hosa Parks on the day of hPr funeral. Gov. Mitch Danids has dimcted that American flags across thn state bo flown at half-stall' on Wednesday. 
Parks. who dim! Oct. 24 at age 92, helped inspire the modern civil righl<> movnmr.nt with her 1955 rnfusal to give up her seat to a white man on a Montgomery. Ala .. bus. 
Formor President Clinton is among the digni­taries oxpeetnd to attend her funeral Wednesday in Dl~troit. 

Bush plans for flu pandemic 
President allots $7.1 billion in strategy to inoculate Arnericans against illness 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Bush outlined a 
$7.1 billion strategy Tuesday 
to prepare for a possible 
worldwide supor-flu out­
break, aiming to overhaul 
tlw vaccine industry so even­
tually twory American could 
be inoculated within six 
months of a pandnmie's 
beginning. 

Such a huge chango would 
take years to implmnont ­
Bush's goal is 2010-and 
his plan drew imm1~diato lim 
from critics who said it 
wouldn't providn enough 
protection in thP mnantime. 
States, too, got an unpleasant 
surprise, ordered to pur­
chase millions or doses of an 
anti-llu drug with their own 
monr.y. 

The long-awaited strategy 
also stresses expanded 
attmnpts to detect and eon­
lain the next supor-llu before 
it reaches the United States, 
with particular attention to 
parts of Asia that arn influen­
za incubators -a global 
f(Jeus that llu specialists have 
insisted the government 
adopt. 

"Early dntoetion is our lirst line of defense," Bush said in a speech at the National Institutes of I Iealth. He callnd on other countries to admit when supr.r-flu strains occur within their borders. "No nation ean afford to ignore this threat," he said. given fair warning of this + $2.X billion to speed pro­+ A call for Congross to 
At the same time, Bush danger to our homeland, and duction of pandnmie vaccines provide liability protection sought to reassure a public time to prepare," Bush said. -including better-matched for makers of a pandmn ic jittery over the spread of bird Topping Bush's strategy: strains -by learning to vacdnn. whieh unliko shots flu, called 115N1, which has + $1.2 billion to stockpile manufacture them in easier­against tho regular wintnr llu killed at least 62 people in enough vaccine against the to-handle enll culturns, would be expnrinwntal. A<>ia since 2003 and caused current HSN 1 llu strain to instead of today's slow largely untested. the death or destruction or protect 20 million method that relics on mil­Bush's announcement tens of millions of birds. Americans, the estimated lions of chicken eggs. eamr. al'tnr his administra­
There is no evidence that a number of health workers + $251 million for interna­tion was battnn1d by criti­human pandemic, of II5N1 and other first-responders tional preparations, includ­cism ovnr its lnthargie or any other super-strain. is involved in a pandnmic. ing improving early-warning response to llurrieano about to start. Bush said + $1 billion for the drugs systems to spot human inl(lc­Katrina. rnpnatodly. Tamillu and Helonza. which tions with novelllu strains. Public health specialists. 
Still, there have been throe can troat and, in some cases, + $100 million for stato briefed on tho stratPgy but flu pandemics in the last cen­prevnnt llu infm:tion. Enough preparations. ineluding awaiting details, callnd it a tury and tho world is over­to treat 44 million people detnrmining how to dr.livPr good start. due for another. Concern is and prevent infection in 6 stockpiled medicines directly "Cinarly this is tho No. 1 growing that the bird l'lu million others is headed for to patients. public health issue on llw eould provide the spark if it thn federal stockpile. States + $56 million to test poul­radar scrnnn," said Miduwl one day mutates so that it were told to buy 31 million try and wild birds for 115N1 Ostorholrn of tho University can spread nasily from per­treatmnnt courses, but Bush or other novel l'lu strains of Minnesota, who advisns son to person. is funding only a quarter of entflring the U.S. bird popu­thP government on inli1ctious 
"Our country has been the statr.s' anticipated bill. lation. dismtsP thrPa.l'i. 

Rumsfeld changes Marines' role 
Corps joins U.S. Special Operations Command to combat new terror threats 
adapt to the tactics of an adversary liko since the Sept. 11. 2001 terrorist attacks 
the al-Qaida terror network that uses as the Pentagon adjusts to lighting a 
WASHINGTON -In a historic step unconventional means to counter shadowy enemy. But tho Marine Corps designed to bolster the military's ability American firepower. for years has resistod b1~ing intogratod to fight a global war on terrorism, "It's important that we continue to into the Spneial Operations Command Defense Secretary Donald H. Humsfeld assess and adapt because of the nature because il<> leaders li1arnd diluting thnir said Tuesday he approved adding of the enemy that we face," Humsfeld traditional sea-borno missions. Marines to U.S. Special Operations told a Pentagon news conference. "It's The Marines arhrund that they alrnady Command. tho organization in charge of an enemy that believes that we, the free had inhernnt special oporations eapabili­SEALs, Green Berets and other com­and civilized world, don't have the stam­ties, such as reconnaissance teams. mando-style forces. _ina or the will to sustain a di!lkult effort Also, the idea of creating an "elite" ele­
It is the first time since the command over the necessary period of time." ment within thr. Marines -as the Army, was created in April 1987 that the Special operations forces, whieh train Navy and Air Force have within their Marine Corps has been included. and to perform a variety of sometimes-dan­services -ran counter to a service Humsfeld said the change reflects a destine missions behind enemy lines, culture that says no Marine is morn need for the Pentagon to continue to have taken on a more prominent role elite than another. 
Associated Press 

Presented by  
~s  
An ExcefJtional Event j{;r Brides.  
~.___ )  
~r  tt<f for a stylish afternoon.  
•  Preview the latest in hridalwear. Enjoy  
hors d'oeuvres and cocktails. Hire your  
musician and florist. Orjust gather ideas.  

page 6 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, November 2, 2005 
Parking 
continued from page 1 
ate percent of the profits. 
"The number of shifts a team works is divided by the number of total shifts available, producing the total profit," cross-country coach Jackie Bauters said. "For example, if [members of the cross country team] work one of 12 shifts, we'll get 1/12 of the total profit combined." 
The team uses this money to pay the salaries of assistant coaches, fund training trips and buy extra equipment. 
"All the time we put into park­ing seems worth it to me because everything we need is paid for, whieh relieves stress," said junior Amanda Trevino, a member of the Saint Mary's softball team. 
Junior Stefanie Broderick, a member of the SMC basketball team, also said although parking may be frustrating at times, the monetary reward makes it worth­while. 

"Our team never looks forward to doing the football parking, but we realize that every team has to do it, and it is a major source of fundraising," she said. 
Not only do the teams benefit financially, many athletes said the experience provides them with an opportunity to bond. Trevino and Broderick both said they have always worked with at least one other teammate, which has helped prevent boredom. 
"At times, parking is a lot of fun," Trevino said. "We get to be loud and jump around in order to get people to come in." 
Broderick also said she enjoyed the company of her teammates. 
"Having the whole team doing it together is nice -it makes the weather bearable and the time pass more quickly," she said. 
A typical morning of parking consists of holding signs on Route 33, collecting money and directing traffic on Saint Mary's campus. The teams usually begin their shift at 6:30 a.m. and continue until half an hour before the game begins or until the lots are full. 
Kachmarik said space is never a problem and teams are usually on duty for the full seven to eight­hour shift. 
In the past, teams have cut this shift in half to give the athletes a break. This was not, however, an option for the women's basketball team this year. 
"This year [the athletic teams] weren't able to do shifts," Broderick said. ''The basketball team had to do the entire 6:30 
a.m. to 1:30 p.m. shift, and it was tiring." 
Trevino has also supervised parking and said she knows the frustration of the long hours. 
"The experience of directing traffic can be draining. The morn­ing can go so slowly sometimes," she said. 
But Trevino said the monotony of parking is alleviated by the variety of people who come to campus. 
"The people who come to park are generally respectful and appreciate what we do. You get to see a lot of different people who talk to us about the team," she said. 
The student athletes must also brave ·the elements and continue their shift no matter the weather. At the start of the football season, teams often must supervise park­ing in the intense heat. As the sea­son progresses, however, the ath­letes must bundle up for the cold -and sometimes snowy-condi­tions. 
The cross-country team will be supervising the parking for the first time in mid-November. 
"We're working a cold week­end, so [the athletes] are a little worried about freezing," said Bauters. 
To make the weather easier to endure, the athletic department provides water, juice and hot cocoa. Trevino said while bever­ages are always on hand, access to food is limited unless the ath­letes bring their own. 
Bauters said she will work alongside her athletes during their shift, just as many coaches do, to show support for the team. This involvement helps build team morale and gives the athletes an opportunity to bond with their coaches in a different setting, Bauters said. 
"What [parking] really does is bring our individual teams and the athletic department as a whole together in a common cause," Broderick said. 
Contact Emily Lavelle elavelO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 
equality, peace and higher educa­tion. 
"lie has been asked to resolve the greatest social issues of our times . . . He was president of the University of Notre Dame for 35 years, has kept his door open to its students for 61 years and has received 150 honorary degrees from universities all over the world," the film said. "Yet when asked to give an account of him­self, he chose but one word: priest." 

The comprehensive documen­tary features llesburgh's own commentary, photos from his young life and at Notre Dame, as well as footage from historical moments in which he participated. 
More intimate and lesser-known sides of Hesburgh are also shown, including his love of flying and his friendship with former University Executive Vice President Father Edmund "Ned" Joyce. 
A highlight of the film is the inclusion of interviews with Joyce, who suffered a fatal stroke on May 2, 2004 at Holy Cross House on campus. 
Near the end of his life, Joyce lay dying in the company of lifelong friend and longtime colleague Hesburgh, who administered last rites to the ailing priest. 
Hesburgh was pleased with the film and said it was one of four documentaries on his life. 
"I think it was extremely well done, and I think they didn't spare anything. They took shots of Jerusalem ... they took shots of Washington, D.C.," Hesburgh said. "And then they have shots of cam­pus, which is probably the best of all. 
"You get a sense watching it that it's very professional. They covered all the points," he said. "It will be good for Notre Dame, I hope." 
The network premiere culmi­nates a five-year project by Family Theater Productions, a Catholic media ministry in Hollywood founded in 194 7 and sponsored by the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Father Willy Raymond, execu­tive producer and a former Holy Cross Seminary student at Notre Dame, said Family Theater sought to put together a thorough look at Hesburgh's inspirational leader­ship that could be widely viewed. 
"I really hope that !viewers] will take away a couple of messages, but one especially, in the words of Father Ted, is that every single person can make a difference in this world," Raymond said. 
Hesburgh's invocation of the Holy Spirit in times of confusion or discouragement also provides a powerful witness to viewers and the Notre Dame community, Raymond said. 
"I hope that the generation of students who are at the University now know what a towering figure Father Ted was and is," he said. 
"God, Country, Notre Dame" will air at 12 p.m. Sunday. 
The DVD includes an introduc­tion by Raymond and an informal conversation between llesburgh and students. It is available at the Hammes Bookstore. 
Contact Janice Flynn at jflynn1 @nd.edu 

Wireless 
continued from page 1 
network has been temporarily rescinded while OIT engineers work with a software vendor to correct performance-related issues." 
"There are a variety of applica­tions on a person's computer that try to connect to the network," Rose said. "Some are generating so much traffic trying to talk to the server, hitting the authentication service so frequently and so hard, that the server couldn't handle it." 

Rose said an error arose that OIT had not found after nine months of testing. 
"We obviously couldn't keep it in place while people were denied access, so we rolled it back," Rose said. 
Rose said she did not know when the patch from Roving Planet, the company that provides the "software and architecture service" to fix the problem would be put in place, and she did not know when the authentication service would start again. 
OIT has been setting up the authentication service for over a year, she said. 
"We've been running it in a pilot mode since January of this year. We've done a lot of testing and work to ensure that we could pro­vide anyone an easy way to access the network while still requiring them to authenticate." 
When the program begins again, there will be two ways for students to sign into the service. One way is to "open up a Web browser and sign in with a user name and password," Rose said. The other way is for students to "set up a connection to connect in the background," she said, so stu­dents don't have to put their user name and password in every time. 
Rose said this connection is called an 802.1x and is "a stan­dard that is used for authenticat­ing network connections. It is a lit­tle more involved to set up, but ends up being a little more user friendly." 
OIT needed to gain approval from the University administration to set up the authentication sys-tern, Rose said. 
"Our [Chief Information Officer] and Chief Technology Officer work with a variety of officials in the University to keep them up to date on a variety of projects that we're working on," she said. 
Several other universities around the country also have wireless authentication. Among these are Baylor University, the University of Iowa and Texas Tech. 
Contact Alicia Conley aconley 1 @nd.edu 

Abortion 
continued from page 1 
Voice, the Department of Sociology, the Program in Gender Studies, the 1-Iesburgh Program in Public Service and the Gender Relations Center in an attempt to foster respectful dialogue between pro-life and pro-choice advocates. 
"At this institution, we grapple with many important questions," Redfield said. "Our goal is to honor the humanity on both sides of the debate, to understand each ot~e:, to ~.nderstand the scope of thiS ISSUe. 
The event featured a faculty panel of Kathleen Cummings, associate director of the Cushwa Center lor the Study of American Catholicism; Teresa Phelps, pro­fessor at the Notre Dame Law 
· School and fellow of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies; and Todd Whitmore, associate professor of Theology and director of the Program in Catholic Social Teaching. "This is one of the very, very few times I have heard anything like this at Notre Dame ... Both the pro-lil'e and pro-choice posi­tions define both life and choice 

in narrow ways," said Phelps. "Instead of trying to preserve or overturn Roe vs. Wade, we should all work to reduce the number of abortions. Many times in the debate, either the fetus or the woman has the rights, and this either/or dichotomy is ill­described." 
All three panelists focused on what society should do in order to better care for pregnant women. 
Cummings told a story from her early years of teaching when one of her students had an abortion because she had too little support and resources. Cummings said her student may not have felt so helpless if the institution had been like the "Dream Campus," a vision by Feminists for Life, a group containing both pro-life and pro-choice advocates. 
"The goal of the Dream Campus is to reduce the number of abortions by providing parents with resources," said Cummings. "On the Dream Campus, there would be pregnancy and parent­ing resource centers, family housing, scholarship funds for parents, cry rooms in the library, and an accommodating class schedule." 
Whitmore spoke of the Nurturing Network, a nonprofit program started in 1986 that also helps pregnant women and new mothers with medical costs. In addition to financial support, pregnant women need to be socially accepted, Whitmore said. 
"Catholic women who have abortions are seven percent more likely than other women to say they are having the abortion because they are afraid of retri­bution from others finding out they had sex," said Whitmore. "This raises questions about whether a punitive attitude toward sex raises the number of abortions. Fear of retribution from having sex outside marriage drives women to commit an even greater sin." 
Phelps said that besides finan­cial and health issues, at the heart of the abortion debate is morality. 
"We say we value babies, but as a society, we don't demon­strate that," Phelps said. "We make it so difficult for women who are pregnant. We should not tolerate society's not taking care of women." 
"Is 'common ground' possible? Frankly, it's all we've got," said Phelps. 
Contact Adrienne Ruffner at aruffner@nd.edu 
Everythingyou need for your big day. 
November 20, 2005 Tickets: $5 in advance 12 p.m.-5p.m. $10 at the door Palais Royale Ballroom To order call: 105 W. Colfax, South Bend 574-235-9190 

Tt····l EOBSERVER 






USINESS
Wednesday, November 2, 2005 
page 7 

Dow 
10,406.77 -33.30
}ones/' 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volum 1,550 132 2,461,828,500

!,]1' 
AMEX 1,652.59 -4.03 NASDAQ 2,114.05 -6.25 NYSE 7.425.18 -7.94 S&PSOO I ,202.76 -4.25 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 13,873.00 +5.14 
FTSE IOO(London) 5,344.30 +27.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE DELL INC (DELL) -2.64
-8.28 29.24 
INTEL CP (INTC) -0.85 22.65
-3.62 
NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ) -0.08 -0.03 38.84 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.26 25.96
+ 1.01 
SIRIUS SATELLITE R(SIRI) +0.29
+4.65 6.52 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND +0.29 +0.14 47.69 
I 0-YEAR NOTE +0.39 +0.18 45.77 
5-YEAR NOTE +0.43 +0.19 44.66 
3-MONTH BILL + 1.50 +0.57 38.62 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.09 59.85 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -6.30 460.60 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.18 87.85 
Excha Rates 
YEN 116.7350 
EURO 0.8319 
POUND 0.5664 
CANADIAN$ 
1.1752 
IN BRIEF 
SEPTA employees to remain on strike 
I'IIILADELI'IIIA-Hesolute. angry transit worknrs vowed Tuesday to remain on strike for wnnks or nvnn months if they don't get an acceptable con tract, a grim prospect for hundreds of thousands of riders forced to find other ways to get around. 
City buses, subways and trolleys were idle for a second day as Pmployees of the Soutlwastnrn Pennsylvania Transportation Authority walknd picket lines and settlnd in for what somn prndictnd would be an nxtended work stoppage. 
Contract talks botwenn SEPTA and the Transport Worknrs Union were to resume Tuesday night. Talks had stopped Sunday night, and about 5,300 union members walknd ofT thn job for the l'irst time since IIJIJH. 
Union and SEPTA representatives huddled snparatlliy with a mndiator. 
''I'm lonelinr than the Maytag repairman. We're sitting at the hotel, waiting for the union negotiators,'' said SEPTA spokesman Hichard Maloney. 
SEPTA said union leaders rejected a con­traet offer that would have required employees to pay 5 percent of their health insurance premiums. Veteran workers cur­rnntly pay nothing. SEPTA's offer also included a 9 pnreent pay increase over three years. 

Dollar rises on strong economic news 
SAN FHANCISCO -Knight Hidder Inc.'s largest shareholder wants the nation's sec­orHI-biggest newspaper publisher to seek a buyer, contending there are few other options lnft for a company that has been rap­idly losing favor with investors as more advertising shifts to the Internet. 
l'rivatn Capital Management LP, which owns a 1'J percent stake in Knight Hidder, made tho dnrnand Tuesday in a letter addressed to the company's board. 
"In light of lirnHnd nwenun growth across tlw nnwspapnr industry and the difficulties thn company has facnd in realizing fair valun... for its shareholders. we bnliuvn thn hoard should now pursun thn compntitive saln of thn company." wrote Bruen Sherman. I'CM's chiP I' exncutivn ol'ficm. 


Senate to question oil industry 
Congress calls on oil companies to use $96 billion profits to alleviate energy costs 
Associated Press 

WASillNGTON -Top executives of throe m<\ior oil companies will bn asked by senators next wnek why some of thnir industry's esti­matnd $96 billion in roeord profits this year shouldn't be used to lwlp pnople hav­ing trouble paying tlwir PIHlrh')' bills. 
Lon Haymond. chairman of Exxon Mobil Corp., Jim Mulva. chief nxncutive of' ConoeoPhillips, and John llofmnistnr. prnsidnnt of the 
U.S. unit of Hoyal Duteh Shell PLC, will bn among the industry exeeutivns to bn qunstionnd at a Senatn hearing, according to eon­grnssional and industry olli­eials. 
The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because a final list of wit­nesses has yet to be com­pleted. The throe companies together earned more than $22 billion during the July~ September quarter this year whnn crude oil prices soared briefly to $70 a bar­rd and motorists were pay­ing well over $3 gallon at the pump after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita struck the Gulf Coast. 
Spokesmen for Exxon Mobil and Hoyal Dutch Shell would not confirm Tuesday that their executives had been called to testify. ConocoPhillips did not $9_6 billion this year. sale of oil over $40 a barwl terproduetive. immediately return a eall "You have a responsibility -into a tax bill later this Advocates for low-income seeking comment. to help less fortunate month, they said. The rev­energy assistance said that 
Thern is growing distress Americans cope with the enue would be given to con­because of soaring 1\rol among both Republicans high cost of heating fuels," sumers in form of an costs, as mueh as $5.2 bil­and Democrats in Congress Grassley, whose committee income tax rebate. lion may bn neodnd to hnlp about the huge profits deals with tax legislation, These huge profits "come poorer families pay winter reported by oil companies wrote in a letter to the chief as a windfall, falling into the heating bills. Congrnss pro­last week. of the American Petroleum laps of the big oil companies vided about $2 billion for 
On Tuesday, Sen. Charles Institute, the industry's lob­with little or no additional the program last fiscal year. Grassley, R-lowa, chairman bying arm. He also said effort or expense," argued In an interview last wnnk, of the Finance Committee, companies should invest Dorgan. John Felmy, chinf eeimomist said oil companies "should more of their profits in The Bush administration at the American Petrolnum do their part" and donate exploration and production also has discussed internal­lnstitutn, which reprnsnnts some of their third-quarter and refining capacity to ly a possible proposal to link the major oil companies, earnings to low-income increase supplies. funding of the federal low­said thn industry in the families and senior citizens Earlier in the day, Sens. income energy assistance coming years plans to invest having trouble paying ener­Byron Dorgan, D-N.D., and program to oil industry $H6 billion in marketing, gy bills, including high heat­Chris Dodd, D-Conn., profits. But Energy refinery expansions, oil ing, bills this winter. renewed their call for pas­Secretary Samuel Bodman exploration and production. Grassley cited industry ana­sage of a windfall profits tax said he remains opposed to "We are an industry already lysts as estimating that the on oil companies. They a windfall profits tax, argu­doing a lot. ... Wn're already 29 major oil and gas com­hoped to put such a propos­ing it was a failure in the investing vast amounts," panies are expected to earn al -a 50 percent tax on the 1980s and would be coun-Felrny said. 

Japan expected to end U.S. beef ban 
Associated Press 

TOKYO -The risk of mad cow infection in U.S. beef is nearly as low as Japanese beef if proper pre­cautions are taken, a government panel ruled Monday, a decision expected to lead to an easing of an import ban that has caused ten­sions with Washington. 
The panel on mad cow disease forwarded their report to the appropriate ministries for a month of hearings before rendering a deci­sion on the ban, which was imposed in December 2003 after the discov­ery of the first U.S. ease of the bovine illness. 
"Based on the assumption that all precautions are taken as requested, we consider the difference in risk between u:s. and Japanese beef to be extremely small," panel chair­man Yasuhiro Yoshikawa said, reading the report to his col­leagues. 
Media reports say the decision will lead to the resumption of imports of beef products from U.S. cows younger than 21 months old as early as the end of this year. No case of mad cow has ever been dis­covered in animals of that age. 
Before the ban, Japan was the most lucrative overseas market for 
U.S. bnef. and an increasingly impatient Washington has pushed hard for a resumption of the trade. 
Last week, 21 U.S. senators intro­duced legislation that would force President Bush to impose tariff's on Japan if it does not lift tlu1 ban. 
After lengthy negotiations, the 
U.S. and Japanese governments this year agreed that Tokyo would allow the import of U.S. beef from tho younger cows. The Japanese side, however, said approval was needed by the Food Safety Commission. 
Still, Japanese consurn1-1rs remain wary of American bnel', with rneent polls showing that nearly 70 per­cent opposed lifting the ban. 
Further dnlays in ov(~rl.urning the ban could eause morn tensions with the United States ahead of a Nov. 15-16 visit by Bush. 
Wednesday, November 2, 2005 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Wednesday, November 2, 2005 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Panel calls for tnajor changes to tax lavv 
W/\SIIINC;T<JN -llot:laring tlw inconw lax systom "has bocomo a running joke." a pn~sidPntial panel on Tut'sday I'I'COlllliii'IHfod l'I'Writing tho nation's lax laws by nliminat­i ng virtually PVPry dod uction and 1:rt~dit and rnplacing tlwm with simplor bennlits for morn taxpayors. 
Tfl~ as 11 r y Secreta r y J o h n Snow said lw would study the report. issued by the l'rosidnnt.'s Advisory Panni on FPdnral Tax Hnf'orm, and hopnd to prnsont formal rnc­ommotHlations to President Bush Ialor this ynar. 
"Tlwsn are hold rnl~ommen­dations." Snow said. "Thnsn an~ recomnwndations that will rhallimgo orthodoxy in a lot of ways on tax policy." 
T h n nino mcnn b n r s of' the commission said kny rnl~om­mendations would lw unpopu­lar. 
"Many stand waiting to defend tlwir breaks, doduc­tions and loopholns, and to dnf'nat our oiTorts," the group said in a ll'ttor to Snow. 
Marginal tax ratns would bn lowor for individuals and busi­nnsses undnr two alternative tax systnms endorsed by the panni. 
Both would eliminate most dNluctions and credits in an niTort to simplify tremendously complicated calculations. Tho second or the two tax systems aims to reduce taxes on sav­ings and investments made by businesses and families. 
In place of current tax breaks, the panel would create a few tax credits and three savings accounts that they said would encourage homeowner­ship, charitable giving and sav­ing while also supporting lower income workers and their fam­ilins. 
The panel sharply criticized lawmaknrs' tendency to use the tax code to promote their policy agendas, noting there had been 15,000 changes in tax laws since the last major rnwrite in 1986. 
Snow and tho panel's mnm­bnrs urged lawmakers and tax­payers to look at the package as a wholn, not to concentrate sol1dy on benefits lost. 
Very quickly, however, the panel heard criticism of their dncisions to limit or scrap deductions for mortgage intor­est. health insurance premi­ums and state and local taxes. 
"Unfortunately, President Bush's tax panel is a Trojan horse, using so-called simplifi­cation to cut taxes for the wealthy while increasing taxes 
for middle-class families," said 
llousn Minority Leader Nancy 
Pnlosi, D-Calif'. 
Son. Jim DeMint, H-S.C., said the recommendations didn't go far tHHntgh. "Wo nend compre­lwnsivP rofonn that will make 1\nwrica the best plac~e in tho world to invest and do busi­ness," he said. 
"It's hard to see how they overeome some of the intru­sions onto really pretty sacred tPrritory," said Clint Streteh, dirnetor of tax poliey for Deloitte Tax. 
Mark Weinberger, a former Treasury Dnpartment official who is now 1\mnricas Vien Chairman at Ernst & Young, said successful tax reform rnquires taxpaynrs to look at thn lwnel'its of any new tax systnm. not just the costs. 
"Tax reform is all about tradn-ol'fs. It's all about win­ners and losers," he said. "I think tax reform is absolutely going to happen. the question is just when." 
Specifically, the .panel said the mortgage interest deduc­tion should be replaced with a credit worth 15 percent of mortgage interest paid, to spread the benefit to more homeowners of modest incomes. The panel also rec­ommended lowering the $1 million limit on mortgages eli­gible for the tax break to the average regional price of hous­ing, ranging from $227,000 to $412,000. 
Tax breaks for mortgages on second homes and home equity loans would be eliminated. 
In another major change, taxpayers could purchase health insurance using untaxed money up to about $5,000 for an individual and $11,500 for a family, a change that caps currently unlimited breaks but would create a new tax break for those who do not get health insurance through work. 
Both proposed tax systems would abolish the alternative minimum tax, a levy originally drafted to prevent wealthy individuals from escaping taxa­tion but increasingly reaching into the middle class. 
Under one plan, individuals would pay no tax on dividends paid by U.S. companies and exclude 75 percent of their capital gains from taxation. Under the second plan. all investment income would be taxed at 15 percent. 
Using a Treasury Department model that's contested by some lawmakers, the panel said both tax alternatives would spur economic growth and increase capital accumulation. 

Associated Press 
WASJIINGTON -In a day of political drama, Democrats forced the Republican-con­trolled Senate into an unusual closed session Tuesday, ques­tioning intelligence that President Bush used in the run­up to the war in Iraq and Committee's work and report to their respective leaders by Nov. 14. 
Hoberts' committee produced a 511-page report in 2004 on flaws in an Iraq intelligence estimate assembled by the country's top analysts in October 2002, and he prom­in an investigation that touchod on the war -the loak of tlw identity of a Cl/\ oflieial marrind to a critic of the administra­tion's Iraq policy. 
"The Libby indictment pro­vides a window into what this is really all about, how this administration man­ufactured and 

~cS!oo~~cS!~J~~ ~ ~©1ffll©Uu© ~oolflffi~©~ 


Present this Ad for $4 Burritos ALL DAY 
(11am-midnight) 
Now open on Sundays from 2pm-1 Opm 

1724 N. Ironwood Dr. 
(next to Nick's Patio) 


Detnocrats question intelligence 
Republicans agree to review committee investigation on Iraq 
accusing Hepublicans of ignor­ised a second "The United States manipulatnd intelli­
ing the issue. phase would gence in order to "They have repeatedly chosen look at issues Senate has been sell the war in Iraq to protect the Hepublican that couldn't hijacked by the and attempted to administration rather than get be finished in destroy those who
Democratic
to the bottom of what happened the frrst year of dared to challenge and why," Democratic leader work. leadership. " its actions," Heid Harry Reid said. The commit-said before invoking The afternoon halt in Senate tee worked on Senate rules that lc~d
Bill Frlst 
business let Democrats steer the second to the closed sns­
Majority Leader 
Democratic leadership," said Majority "Now we have this Leader Bill 
... stunt 24 hours
Frist of 
after their staff
Tennessee. T h e was informed that 
Republican 
we were moving to 
leader also 
a closure next
said President Bush's deci­week." sion to nomi­nate Samuel 
Pat Roberts 
Alito to the 
Intelligence
Supreme Court had Committee Chairman "set the Democrats 
sion. 
Libby resigned 
from his White House post after bning indicted on charges of obstruction of justice, making false statements and perjury. 
Democrats contend that the unmasking of Cl/\ officer Valerie Plame was retribution for her husband, Joseph Wilson's publiely challenging the Bush administration's con­tention that Iraq was sneking to purchase uranium from 1\frka. That claim was part of the White House's justification for going to war. 
1\s Heid spoke, Frist met in the back of the chamber with a half-dozen senior GOP senators, including HoberL'i, who bore the brunt of Heid's eriticism. Heid claimed that Hepublkans have repeatedly rebulfed l>omocratie pleas for a thorough investiga­tion. 
Sen. Trent Lott, H-Miss., a former majority loader, said a closed session was appropriate for such overarehing matters as impeachment and chemical weapons -the two topics that last sent the senators into such sessions. 
In addition, Lott said, Heid's move violated the Senate's tra­dition of courtesy and consent. But there was nothing in Senate rules enabling Hepublicans to thwart Heid's ofl'ort. 
The Sonatn had bnm1 consid­ering a budget bill whnn it went into dosnd session. 

the spotlight to the war in Iraq, an issue on which the president is doing badly in public opinion polls. 
Taken by surprise. Republicans derided the move as a political stunt but agreed two hours later to a bipartisan review of the Senate Intelligence Committee's inves­tigation into prewar intelli­gence. 
"The United States Senate has been hijacked by the 
phase of the review. Roberts said, but it has not finished. lie blamed Democrats for the delays and said his staff had informed Democratic counterparts on Monday that the committee hoped to complete the second phase next week. 
"Now we have this ... stunt 24 hours after their staff was informed that we were moving to closure next week," a clearly 
angry Roberts told reporters. "If that's not politics, I'm not standing here." 
In mid-afternoon Tuesday, Heid demanded the Senate go into closed ses­sion. The public was ordered out of the chamber, the lights were dimmed, and the doors were closed. No vote is required in such cir­cumstances. 
Heid's move refo­cused attention on 

back on their heels .... This may just be a reaction to that." 
Democrats sought assurances that Intelligence Committee Chairman Pat Roberts of Kansas would complete the sec­ond phase of an investigation of the administration's prewar intelligence. A six-member task force -three members from each party -was appointed to review the Intelligence the continuing controversy over prewar intelligence. Despite administration claims, no weapons of mass destruction have been found in Iraq, and some Democrats have accused the White !louse of twisting the intelligence to exaggerate the threat posed by Iraq. 
Vice President Dick Cheney's chief of stall', I. Lewis "Scooter" Libby, was indicted last Friday 



THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, November 2, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Seeing Parks as a hero 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 
ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 sccne.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independenr, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saim Maty's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration ofeirher institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolities should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ohscrvcr{USPS 'i\)1) 2-400\JJ is pub!~~hcd Monday through Friday ~xc..-:p~ during exam and vaCilti!)ll periods. A~ubscription to The: Obsl!rvt:r is $100 for nne :academic ycar;S'>"it(,roncu-ntec;ter. 
T1tc OhM:rvcr is pu!·M~h~>d .u: POSTMASTV.R 
flllj .Suuth Diniu~ H:all .Stud .1ddtt~) corrections to: 
Nunc [)~me, IN 46'5'i6-0779 !"he Ohscrver 
Pcriodk..d posli13e paid ;U Nfitre Dame P.O.. &x779 
.md Jddiuonal motiling offices 024 Sooth Dining Hall 
N01rc Dame. IN 16556-077'1 
The Olv.crvcr is J member of the Associated Pt~. All reproduction righrs Jrc rc.~crved .. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Kate Antonacci Matt Puglisi Lisa Schultz Ken Fowler Kaitlynn Rielly Jay Fitzpatrick Viewpoint Scene Alyssa Brian Doxtader Brauweiler Illustrator Graphics Meg Dwyer Kelly MacDonald 

"You may go on and do so." With those words, Rosa Parks, a 42-year­old African American seamstress, lit a fire that sought to consume the racist environment of Montgomery, Ala. 
Last week we lost a national treasure. Rosa Parks is a popular and power­ful symbol of courage and non­violent action. ller refusal to move to the back of the bus put a face on the shameful segrega­tion polices of the American South. Now with her gone, the pundits have gone to work trying to derive some greater lesson from her life. True, Parks was an active member in the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and served as her chapter's secretary. True, Parks had attended a training prior to her arrest that fortified her for taking direct non-violent action. True, she was a part of a community organizing for civil rights, and per­haps without that preparedness, Parks' actions would not have been the springboard for the protests and mobilizations to follow. Yet, holding her up as a hero is neither inappro­priate nor misplaced. · 
Rosa Parks was a leader. lim· action was courageous. In those times, blacks were treated as chil­dren and whites understood them­selves as smarter, superior and more powerful. The word of a bus driver to a seamstress was as good as law. So on that bus and in the news reports, Rosa Parks refusing to move from her seat and submitting to arrest was a heroic and gutsy move. 
Rosa Parks was a part of a growing movement, but certainly not an automaton. People hold that within collective action, people stop think­ing and acting for themselves. On the contrary, people within community 

Kama ria Porter 
K-Mart's Blue Light Special 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Comedy a useful tool 
I saw the "Jockular" comic that Kimberly Baker was so offended by in her Nov. 1 Letter to the Editor; yes, I am a woman. and I very much do not want to be reduced to an "instrument for the pleasure of I sex] organs." However. I found the "Jockular" comic funny anyway. Why'? Because as any Notre Dame student who has attended a llallowcen party on or off campus knows, it's not too far from the truth. Comedy helps us to realize how ridiculous we nmlly can be sometimes. That's part of what makes things funny and also part of its value in society. If The Observer printed an article about how 60 percent of Notre Dame girls plan to dress as a slutty something-or-other for Halloween, it wouldn't be nearly as striking as a comie taking that faet to the extreme and pointing out just how ridiculous it is to be a slutty blender, or yes, even a slutty Helen Keller. Similarly, Ashley Williams seemed to miss that point in her Oct. 31 letter. Comedy can sometimes be one of the most 
OBSERVER POLL 
Will you change your behavior 

SubmitaLetter
based on the evictions at Turtle Creek and the stricter disorderly house ordinance? 
1to the Editor at 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
:1 www.ndsmcobserver.com ~, 
organizations should be given strength of support to act individual­ly on their anger and stand for them­selves. There is no 'T' in "team," but there is a pretty central one in "win." We need leaders to show us the way, guide us by example and show us what is possible. Rosa Parks suffered the daily stab of discrimination and dehumanization from Jim Crow as much as anyone else in the move­ment. A black life was worth nothing to soeiety. Hosa Parks had her own personal reasons apart from the movement not to move to the back of the bus, so we should not diminish her action as bold. 
Dreamers of the next social move­ment say we should not hold Parks up as a hero, but look at the other black leaders who mobilized 
around her civil disobe­honor her and lobby for dience. The fact is a national and that all those peo­remaining remem­ple are men, and brance of Rosa even in the Civil Parks, we let the !lights failings of Movement, a memory and man's voice disregard for was worth the past wipe more than her from our those of minds. For women like us at Notre Parks. It is a Dame, it shame no could be one remem­another day bers anyone we have to go from the civil to class while rights movement othor students outside of Rosa get to frolic. Yet I Parks and Martin have a feeling that Luther King Jr., but I many could take that do not think that putting day. reflect on a coura­
them in the rank and l'ile will do any better. We shall be worse off if we forget Parks now that her living witness has expired. 
While we can have memorials and holidays to presidents, military lead­ers and unnamed soldiers, we should have at least one to American female courage and fortitude. We should take the time and space to remember the strength of African Americans during the civil rights movement-
effective tools to persuade people that things they don't even think about-wlwre they sit in the dining hall, what they dress up as for Halloween -can aetually impact soci­ety in a negative way. It allows one to make a point without the potential ugliness of saying directly, "Your Halloween costume is slutty, and as such, degrades all women." If Baker wants to berate someone for the objectification of women and. apparently, the destruction of humanity, she should have walked around on I lalloween and personally reprimanded every girl in a French maid's outfit­although that would make her a lot less popular than the people who just decided to hand out candy. 
Elizabeth Deak 
JU!liOr 
Farley Hall 
Nov. I 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"All the president is, is a glorified public relations man who spends his time flattering, kissing and kicking people to get them to do what they are supposed to do anyway." 
Harry 5. Truman former U.S. president 

even if channeled through the life of one woman. We should uplift the life of Hosa Parks so our children and our children's children can always remember-even if imperfectly­that she stood up for her dignity by stayed seated and changed the course of history. I feel it is in order to start-or join-a campaign to have a national holiday to Hosa Parks and even perhaps a memorial statue in Washington, D.C. 
Maybe money and energy could be better spent fighting for a cause here or in Africa. A holiday probably will not change the world. However, there will always be time for fighting; injustices unfortunately do not go away easily. People of courage, like Rosa Parks, will leave us. If we do 
not seize this opportunity to 
geous African American woman and maybe even, with the light of her legacy, take up our own radical, non-violent actions for a cause of freedom and justice. 
Kamaria Porter is a senior American Labor History Major. She can be reached at kporter@nd.edu 

The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
L----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Wednesday, November 2, 2005 
page 11 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Ordinance goes too far 
Off-campus policies unfair 
Whonver said South Bond residents are "unndueat­nd, low-aspiring and low-achieving" obviously madn a dumb commnnt. But as both a student at Notre I>anw and a'i a South Bond resident, I disagmn with tho mood of'tho opinion lntters that appeared in Monday's Tho Obsnrvnr and hopn they will change ovnr Limo. Notre Dame students who choose to live ofr·nunpus arn too oflnn portrayed as dnviant villains who just want to go crazy and have ridiculous par­tins. WPII, thnsn am my obsnrvations from living on·­mmpus this year, which I think ean explain where sonw of thn ofl"-mmpus student.<> arc eoming from in thnir complaints about thn nnw dty ordinancns. So far, my house and the two houses of friends next to nw havn had two run-ins with the police. We have reeniwd a notice of abatnmnnt and pretty much can­not have a party again unlnss wn want a supposed fi~lony. This is what I know of our current neighbor­hood rnlations: 
I I Wn are on good rnlations with our neighbors, talk to thmn every oncn in awhile, nven had a bar­lwqun with a fi1w of thorn. A !i1w days ago I was <L<>knd, "Arnn't you gonna havn people over this wnnkmul'?'' A fnw neighborhood kids have sometimes playnd filotball or ba<>ketball with us as wnll. 
2) Whnn I talknd to policn, I was told that no one within a one-or two-block radius has ever spedfical­ly complainnd about onn of our parties. 
Thn point I am trying to get across is that thn stu­dnnt.'i that I live with are rnspectable kids trying to IL<>similate into the South Bend community. One party at our house wa<> admittedly too big, but even when wn had 15-20 people at our house, all inside, three policn cars came by and stayed parked oul<>ide our housns for a decent amount of time. 
It might bn interesting to note that not everyone in my hometown of South Bnnd ha..<; the best interest.<; of Notrn I >arne student'> in mind either. Not everyone ofl"-eampus enjoys getting their cars broken into or mnstantly being confronted to give money for a ear that h<L'> broken down eight nights in a row. Notre Dame neighbors of mine thought their house was broken into after they went to bed and their alarm sounded. The police responded pretty non-chalantly. After the resident'> gave the police a description of the person that only 15 minutes earlier had suspi­ciously stopped at their door and given his name, the police acknowledged the identity of the suspicious man and told the female residents that he wa..'i harm­less, but to eall if anything else happened. 
I realize that these arc isolated eases and that we ultimatnly ehose to live ofl"-campus with South Bend resident.<; and arc dearly responsible for that deei­sion. In the case of the Thrtle Crnek evictions, howev­er, I think that it is terrible that people were evicted without warning. In apartments that are 99 pereent students, where many underago students go to party, it seems hard to believe that one party should lead to immediate eviction. This L'i especially true when there has beon no precedent of this action in the p<L'>L A notke of abatement docs not finn the property owners. in tl1is ea'>e, Turtle Creek. Therefore, eviction without a sneond occurrence seems pretty ruthless to me, especially considering Thrtlc Creek exists in it<; current form only because of Notre Dame students. 
Finally, I think it is important for Notre Dame to consider the current plight of the student. More and more student<; are going to live o!l"-carnpus, not only because of the rules found in each dorm, but also because of Notre Dame's burgeoning student popula­tion. If off-campus locations are going to continue to become more stringent in regard to social activities, more and more off-campus problems.fJssues are going to occur in the future. Notre Dame either needs more centralized off-campus housing or they need to work with South Bend to create student apartments that allow a reasonable amount of social activity. It is short-sighted and naive to think that college students are not going to drink, espcdally those who are 21 and living off-campus. Until this simple fact is real­ized, no solutions can be seriously proposed. 
Quinn Eide senior off-campus Oct.31 
Are we ND? 
I especially enjoy the football game cheer in which the cheerleaders direct the entire stadium to echo "We Are NO" around the bowl because it reminds me of thn drive to my first home game. As we were driving down the inter­state, I couldn't help but notice all the signs and flags hanging ofT of cars, vans and HVs, and written on many of them was that cheer. The cheer reflects the unity or this amazing institution, and over my past throe yoars hnre, that unity has shown itself time and time again. 
Since freshman year, I have been invited to New York City, the Jersey shore, Miami, San Diego, Philadelphia and Chicago, and each time I was able to stay in an ND alum or student's house, absolutely free of charge, without mooting the alum or parents of the student beforehand. I love how at home football games, there is always some tailgate of some friend to go to, and every ounce of food and drink is theirs to share. I love how when I graduate from this school, the simple fact that an ND class ring is on my finger could get me places others might better dnsnrvn. As stu­dents, we are privileged to attend Notre Dame, and it is our duty to continue that unity which has been built up over the past 100 years. 
With that said, it siekcns me that the unity this sehool thrives off of, the unity that makes Notre Dame separate from any other school, is being destroyed by the "they had it coming" and "it's not my problem" mentality found around campus after the eviction news. After reading my daily dose of Viewpoint, I became more angry by the deser­tion response than the simple fact that we are being target­ed by the city. I agree with upholding the law, but this ordi­nance takes that role too far. There is no unity in telling fellow students they had it coming; there is no unity in fur­getting this whole incident happened. Those six evicted students are more likely to feel a part of this school and more likely to contribute to its unity if we as a student body do not accept their over-punishment. Indifference toward and desertion of our fellow students is the best way to destroy the unity we have, so don't let it happen. 
Steven Maher 
JUOIOr 
Alumni Hall 
Oct. 31 

Making us think 
I wonder if Ashley Williams, the non-Catholic, minority, liberal-minded female who was outraged by the events sur­rounding her Halloween weekend !Oct. 31 Letter to the 1\ditorl. would laugh at a man falling on a banana peel. Would it matter if it were a white man or a black man? If we eannot control the bad things around us, the human con­dition forces us to laugh at them. To quote "Sullivan's Travels," a 1941 !ilm, from a time when few people were laughing, "There's a lot to be said for making people laugh. Did you know that that's all some people have? It isn't rnueh, but it's better than nothing in this cockeyed cara­van." 
A hurricane has no motivations and no targets. To impute such on an act of God is to try to understand the ineffable. I'm sure the students involved had no intention of mocking tlw gravn losses people suffered or the lives lost forever. Would you have been as upset if they had parodied the less recent tsunami or the Kashmiri earthquake? I think an earthquakn would be a hard costume to achieve, myself. 
As rngards Williams' eritique of the student stand-up show, I can only say as a former performer on the Legends Stagn that I not only find the joke she mentions funny, but highly topieal to the Notre Dame crowd. How many people have noted this snlf-segrcgation of the dining halls and won­dored why it exists? llow many people, conservative and lib­eral alike, have wondered if it is a sign of something wrong? 
By parodying the things we think are wrong in life, we are doing the work of comedy: Pointing out the silly stereotypes and habits of humanity to help wash them away. May we all be as bold as that comedian, to point out what each of us sons or saw every mealtime and bring it front and center. Thoso students, Williams, were laughing at their own condi­tion, knowing the awkwardness of a segregation they did not eroate and probably would not keep. Let yourself laugh along with them. Laughter is the best way to change a per­son's heart. 
Jared Rizzi alumnus class of2005 Nov. I 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, November 2, 2005 
MOVIE REVIEWS 

Subpar 'Saw' sequel fails to deliver scares 
By VINCE LABRIOLA 
Scene Critic 

The obligatory sequel to one of the biggest horror sleeper hits since "The Blair Witch Project," the gory, stomach­turning spectacle "Saw II" is fun as a shallow, macabre Halloween treat, but fails to deliver enough creativity (and, strangely enough, violence) to stand up to its rather noteworthy predecessor. 
The reins handed over to first-time director Darren Lynn Bousman, "Saw II" goes through all the requisite motions to deliver an entertaining but creatively disappointing second meeting with the Jigsaw Killer. Shocking in its depictions of human mutilation and depravity, the original "Saw" was filmed on a bare­bones (no pun intended) budget truly nauseating moments that, by them­selves, deserve recognition. In particu­lar, the film exploits psychological fears of needles to great (and gruesome) effect -in short, "Saw II" is not a film for the squeamish or faint of heart. 
However, interestingly enough, the biggest problem with the film is how restrained it is with regards to the vio­lence displayed onscreen. In a film such as this, where violence is pushed to the forefront of the experience, it is strange and anticlimactic to see that several of the deaths are left off-screen, and when a killing does take place front and cen­ter, the result is largely unimaginative, given horror-film standards. Simply put, "Saw II" does not deliver on its promise of the gore that was so shocking in the original. It isn't depraved enough. 
Part of this may 
be due to the 


and drew notewor­decision to con­
Saw II

thy and admirable centrate on the comparisons to 
tension between another low-budg­the now-captured et horror master­Jigsaw (Tobin piece, George Bell) and theDirector: Darren Lynn Bousman 
Romero's "Night of detective . he
Writer: Darren Lynn Bousman 
the Living Dead," places at the cen­
Starring: Donnie Wahlberg, Shawnee 
as well as the ter of his sadistic
Smith, Tobin Bell and Glenn Plummer 
more recent "Blair Witch." 

This sequel gets the Hollywood gloss, but the originality present in its prede­cessor stretches too thin here. In addi­tion, the film is crippled by several huge horror-film cliches that mar the overall quality of the film. 
Nevertheless, "Saw II" delivers several 
games, Detective 
Eric Mason (Donnie Wahlberg). Seven people, including Mason's son, are trapped in Jigsaw's custom-made house of horrors (which includes the disgusting bath­room/torture chamber of the first film), into which is pumping a deadly nerve agent that threatens to have the home's 
By COURTNEY WILSON Scene Critic 

Thank Demi Moore and Ashton Kutcher for turning society on to the whole "older woman, younger man" thing. 
In Ben Younger's "Prime," Uma Thurman plays the part of Rafi, a 37 year-old divorcee whose biological clock is tick-tick-ticking. Having recently left a nine-year marriage, she is more desperate than ever for the ful­fillment she believes can only come from the newness of a baby. Justifiably eager to move on with her life, Rafi falls quickly for the attention of David, the younger guy, played by hunky new­comer Brian Greenberg. David, just about as cute as can be, proves to real­ly be just a boy, as he is nearly 14 years her junior. 
be her son. Yet aside from being her good little Jewish boy, David also hap­pens to be a free spirited artist with eyes wide open. His romantically rebel­lious streak finds him caught up in a deep infatuation with Rafi, which quickly transgresses into a whirlwind relationship that is both exciting and suspenseful for the viewer. Thurman gets most of the credit for this though, as there is something genuinely intriguing about her middle-aged char­acter. 
Where Thurman provides the perfect dramatic performance, Streep adds the priceless humor. Caught between a relationship with her patient and her only son, Lisa faces a strenuously sen­timental and ethical burden. The thought of her son finding love in a non-Jewish woman turns out to be the most traumatic thing that could hap­
pen in her life. 
Despite the age Lisa is seemingly
Prime

difference, the two liberal in most seemingly hit it off 
things outside with a sort of lust her family. As -maybe even Streep fidgets, love at first sight pouts and stam­Director: Ben Younger 
-kind of thing. mers her way
Writer: Ben Younger 
Nonetheless, Rafi through the
Starring: Uma Thurman, Meryl Streep, 
questions whether gushy details of
Brian Greenberg and Jon Abrahams 
or not she is ready Rafi's sex life, 
for romance, especially given David's age and slight immaturity. Desperate for guidance, she confides everything to her zany psychiatrist Dr. Lisa Mertzger (played by always-outstanding Meryl Streep). Lisa urges Rafi to go ahead and have some fun with David, as it is probably no more than a harmless fling. 
The film's previews have already given away the twist. Steep's character soon discovers that Rafi's new sexual­ly-invigorating companion happens to 
she brings an amazing comedic performance to this protective motherly turmoil. 
Outside of the expected lovey-dovey type scenes, there is just enough come­dy from other supporting characters to keep the movie interesting. For instance, what would a young girl liv­ing in New York City be without her stereotypical gay friends? Rafi's closest friends, a couple of trendy homosexual guys, are more like her family, as she depends on them for advice and occupants bleeding out of every orifice on their bodies within two short hours. 
Scary, but not as scary as the more vis­ceral torture devices present in "Saw." So, even though Jigsaw is in the custody of the police, he holds the trump card. Scenes of violence ensue within the house, inter-cut with the bloated and overly-faux philosophical ramblings of Jigsaw on his past, his present and why he kills so sadistically. Unfortunately, the audience never really cares, given the heavy-handed and illogical way said information is presented. 
People die, tremendous amounts of blood are shed, and yet, by the film's quizzical and convoluted finish, the question that begs to be asked is this ­why so uninspired? Are nerve gas and knife fights, guns and baseball bats the best the creators of "Saw" could come up with for their sequel? 
Not smart enough to be "Silence of the Lambs," nor grizzly enough to be "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre," "Saw II" aims too high and fails in its most impor­tant goal -delivering scares. Make sure you pay the matinee price or just rent the original. 
Contact Vince Labriola at vlabriol@nd.edu 

Great acting carries witty, charming 'Prime' 

Photo courtesy of movieweb.com Lisa Mertzger (Meryl Streep), left, and recently divorced Rafi (Uma Thurman), right, realize they have more in common than they thought in the movie "Prime." 
approval of her young lover. 
On David's side is probably the most hilarious character in the movie. Morris, played by Jon Abrahams, is a complete buffoon, as he gets his kicks by throwing cream pies in the faces of women who will not give him a second date. 
Finally, there are David's bickering grandparents/"roommates" who are just so cute they can't be anything but loveable. 
All in all, the plot is less predictable than it seems. The ways in which things play out are less conventional than other traditional romantic come­dies -it has a little bit of an edge. Most of the actors step up to playing characters that are refreshingly life­like. For those looking for light hearted laughter and quirky romance, or for fans of Thurman and Streep, "Prime" will likely not disappoint. 
Contact Courtney Wilson at cwilson6@nd.edu 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Wednesday, November 2, 2005 
Up-and-down season still valuable for Irish 
The Irish could never quite put this season on cruise control. 

There was always another road­block in the way, another detour or bottleneck. It was never a smooth ride for the 2005 Notre Dame team. 
But that doesn't matter now. 
The regular season is over, and the Irish head into the Big East Tournament with a new appreciation ofwhat they're playing for. 

Although the archives say this was a not-too-flashy 10-6-2 sea­son, the final numbers don't reflect the challenges the team faced and the hardships it overcame to enter the conference tournament with this kind of confidence. 
After losing what coach Bobby Clark described as "three ofthe best players ever to play in this program"-goalie Chris Sawyer and defenders Kevin Goldthwaite and Jack Stewart-Notre Dame could never hit its full stride. They rebounded from losses quickly with decisive wins but dropped several close games and struggled to find the net too often. 
But the games the Irish lost mean less than the players and leaders they found within them­selves. 

"Our class, there maybe were some more question marks about how the team was going to go," 

Kate Gales 
Associate Sports Editor 

Irish captain John Stephens said. back." "We lost some pretty strong per­In 2006, this year's underclass­sonalities, so it's been a learning men will be seasoned veterans. process kind offor everyone." They'll appreciate a sea<>on where 
Sawyer was a two-time all-Big they couldn't take making the East pick while Goldthwaite and NCAAs for granted. Stewart were MAC Hermann They also learned how to play Trophyserrtifinalists. with everyone on the roster, fresh­
In a way, losing the "stars" gave man to senior, dealing with injuries the players more of an equal foot­and off-the-field problems. ing on the team. "Everyone's had a stake in [the 
"I think it's given a lot of guys season]," Stephens said. "And kind of an owner-hopefully it will pay ship stake in how off."
Although the 
the team's going to But the season do and that led to regular season isn't over. And maybe some rough although the regu­
won,t be 
times but hopefully lar season won't be
remembered as a
that will pay off remembered as a down the line," dominating dominating per­Stephens said. formance in one of
performance ... 
"Even some ofthe the nation's tough­
history could still 
younger guys are est conferences, taking more of a be made. history could still be leadership role than made. they have in the "They're still in a past, and it hasn't been as domi­very similar position where we've nated by the top guys, by the sen­been previous years and maybe iors." they can even take it further than 
The season reflects a senior previous years," Clark said. "That's class forced to fill some impossibly still in their hands ... big cleats and underclassmen who This is an opportunity for this were thrust into the spotlight -team to take it to places this team shouldering a heavy load for the has never been. It's still all to play Irish. for." 
This season didn't look fancy. There might have been con­But it could pay dividends next struction holdups along the way. year and in the future. Clark has But Notre Dame isn't getting in an taken the differences between last exit lane without a fight. year's Irish and this year's edition in stride. The opinions expressed in this 
"Last year's team was a team column are those ofthe author and where pretty much everybody not necessarily those ofThe came back," he said. "And next Observer. year's team will be a team where Contact Kate Gales at pretty well everybody comes kgales@nd. edu 


2005 BIG EAST TOURNAMENT 
THE TOP SIX TEAMS IN EACH EIGHT-TEAM DIVISION ADVANCED TO THE CONFERENCE TOURNAMENT. 

RED DIVISION BLUE DIVISION 
* First Round opponents listed in parentheses 






3. Nobe Dame.(J$i.S)Tacuse) 
The Irish trou:ttooll SetonHall40 in their last regular season game. They need 'In~· well in order to earn a NCAA berth. ' 



PAST TOURNAMENT CHAMPIONS 
1982-SYRACUSE 1993-ST. JOHN'S 1983-CONNECTICUT 1994-ST. JOHN'S 1984-CONNECTICUT 1995-ST. JOHN'S 1985-SYRACUSE 1996-NOTRE DAME 1986-SETON HALL 1997-RUTGERS 1987-SETON HALL 1998-ST. JOHN'S 1988-SETON HALL 1999-CONNECTICUT 1989-CONNECTICUT 2000-BOSTON COLLEGE 1990-BOSTON COLLEGE 2001-ST. JOHN'S 1991-SETON HALL 2002-BOSTON COLLEGE 1992-ST. JOHN'S 2003-NOTRE DAME 
2004-CONNECTICUT 
Wednesday, November 2, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 




Silently supportive 
Notre Dame's six seniors do not boast incredible stats, but they have set examples as hardworking leaders 
By KEVIN BRENNAN Sports Writer 
.Justin Midmud has had a huge inl'lutHlCP on this year's Notre Damn nwn 's soccer team. II is impact, however, h<L'> come mostly oll'thn finld. 
Michaud enternd the sna<>on bat­tling junior Chris Cahill for the starting goalkeeper spot. Arter splitting tim11 in the two exhibition ganws, Cahill got tho nod in the regular soason oponer against Soutlwrn Methodist and has rmnairwd in n11t lilr thn Irish ever since. 
Michaud did not rnsnnl Cahillli>r winning the starting position, how­twtw. (Jn tho eontrary, tho snnior, in his third ynar IL'> tho toam's backup goalin. did nvnrything ho could to hdp his teammate sw:ceed. 
"You'd think with goalkBnpnrs fighting for thn orw spot, you wouldn't bn good frinnds. But in w~nnral wn'vn always bmm good friends," Miehaud said. "I was good fritmds with llimnnr Irish ali­Anwrican ket~per Chris) Sawynr heliJrt~. I lwlpml him out., and it's btHlll the sanw with ( :ahill. I likn l'inld," junior tri-captain Greg Dalby said. 
Clark agroPs with Dalby's assess­ment. The coach has been extremely impressed with the way the tnan1's six seniors each led the Irish in dillcront ways. 
"This is a class that just has a great attitude," Clark said. "They've not always been up in the honors or the awards, but they've just had a fabulous attitude. They've come to practice every day with a smile on their face and they've worked extremely hard." 
Elected captain prior to the sea­son, Stephens has never starred for the Irish, but he has con­tributed all four years due to his heady play and tremendous effort. The midlielder has concentrated this year on trying to influence the way the younger members of the tnam approach the game. 
"llopofully maybe our work ethic will rub oil' on some of the younger guys who maybe are more talented than we are," Stephens said. 
Rellas has served as captain alongside Stephens. Alter a stellar freshman campaign in which he started every game, Rellas' 

him. I want him "1/opefully, maybe our career at Notre to do well when Dame has been
work ethic will rub off
lw's in there." derailed by a Michaud's on some of the series of injuries. eiTorts in this younger guys who In 2003 and 2004, rnspet:t havn not Rellas played in a
maybe are more 
gonn unnoticed total of just five 
by Cahill. talented than we are." games, and the "lin's bnen a captain has been good role model sidelined for much
John Stephens
for me and for ofthis season.
Irish captain
thn othnr kenp­nrs," Cahill said. "lie brings an intnnsity to training every day that WI\ really nnnd to keep us motivat­nd. And he's always ofl'emd advice and any hnlp he could to me." 
Notre I>arne head coach Bobby Clark has loved Miehaud's profes­sional and unselfish approach to tlw sna<>on. 
"lie's been a backup, but he's bmm a terrific backup because he's driven all three of the younger goalkeept\rs and he's never once hung his head," Clark said. "lie's the leader of thnse goalkeepers." 
Michaud's story i'> an impressive, but not all that uneommon one. In fact, it seems to be part of a com­mon trend among the seniors on tllll 2005 team. 
This senior d!L'>S is not nearly as heralded or as successful on the field as last season's, which fea­turod three MLS draft picks. !loading into lhfl year, tri-captain John Stephens had played in the most games -40 -of any Irish senior. Tony Meh'Tla, who wa<> tied f(>r the tnam lnad with five tallies in 2004, WIL'> tho only senior who had smred a goal entering the season. 
This year, Stephens is the only senior who has rncorded more than two poinl<>; the midfielder ha<> loggnd live with three a<>sisl<> and onn goal. Whether or not it is shown in the box scores, though, the 2005 senior cla<;s ha'> played a tremendous and vital role throughout the year. 
'Thi<> season, I think all the sen­iors -every single one of them ­have set a huge example of how to handle themselves on and ofl' the "It's been very 
frustrating," Rellas 

said. "But you know there's more to being a cap­tain than on the field, so I'm trying to do everything I can to help this team get prepared for the game on and oiTthe field." 
Clark praised Rellas' ability to lead effectively without seeing much playing time. 
"Dales stuck with it and he still comes with a smile on his face," the coach said. "He has played a part by his attitude and his exam­ple." 
It is not just the captains who have served as exemplary leaders, but the rest of the seniors as well. Jon Mark Thompson had only played in four games coming into 2005. Nonetheless, junior midfield­or Nate Norman pointed to Thompson as a team-oriented player. 
"What's been so impressive about Jon Mark is that despite his lack of playing time, he's always done really well in practice and he's always one of the hardest workers on the team," Norman said. "And when he does get his chance, he always does something productive when he gets on the field." 
Clark knows that he can sub Thompson into the game at mid­field and not worry about a decrease in play, as evidenced by the senior's performance Saturday against Seton Hall. 
"I le came in on Saturday in the second half and gave us 25 min­utes and did a fabulous job," Clark said. 
Forward Megna, like many of his far this year. Clark calls Megna "an unsung hero," how­"It's been one of ever, because of all the most satisfying the other things he 

classes I've had in
does for the team. Dalby agrees with all my years of his coach's evalua­coaching college. " 
tion. "He's not given 
Bobby Clark

enough credit I think for what he Irish coach 
does," Dalby said. "He has set an example. Even if your stats aren't high, you can still really contribute to the team." 
Clark has a feeling, however, that Megna's goal scoring drought will soon come to an end. 
"Tony is still going to get a vital goal or two before the season is 
"He has just stepped up," Clark said. "Let's be honest, he's been one of our most influential play­ers." 
Crouse hopes the young players on the team who do not play early in their careers will learn from his experiences and remain motivat­ed. 
"It shows that working hard throughout your four years, you can go out and become what you want," Crouse said. "It shows that anybody can really just work hard and overcome some odds. It's nice to finally play and do what you love." 
If the Irish succeed in the Big East Tournament this week and advance to the NCAA Tournament, it might not be because of numer­ous big plays from seniors on the field. However far the team advances in postseason play, though, the six members of the senior class will have played a huge roll -in their on-the-field contributions, in their attitude oil' the field and in their mentorship of their teammates. 
"It's been one of the most sati<>fY­ing cla<>ses I've had in all my years of roaching college," (]ark said. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 

classmates, has been disappointed this season with his on-the-field production. 
After leading the team in goals a year ago with five, the senior has fhlled to fmd the back of the net so over," Clark predicted. "He's going to pull something out of the hat before it all wraps up." 
Last but certainly not least among the seniors is defender Ben Crouse. Crouse saw very little 
action in his first two seasons, but gained some expe­rience early in 2004 when star defender Kevin Goldthwaite came down with an injury. Crouse has established himself as a starter in the back four and one of Notre Dame's most reliable play­ers. 
Wednesday, November 2, 2005 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Stating their case 
The Irish must excel this week if they plan on going to the NCAA tournament 

TIM SULLIVAN and DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer 

Irish midfielder Ian Etherington, left, celebrates after scoring the game-winning goal in Notre Dame's 2-1 victory over Louisville Sept. 23. Forward Kurt Martin, center, controls the ball during a 3-0 Notre Dame loss to Indiana Oct. 26. Defender Jack Traynor, right, considers his options before a throw-in during a 1-0 Irish win over Bradley Sept. 28. 
any other. But Notre Dame bring it back again." advanced to the Sweet 16 of tournament or win enough
By KATE GALES 

senses the urgency surround­The Irish ended the season the NCAA Tournament -far­games to strengthen its case 
Associate Sports Editor 

ing the matchup and the need winning three of their last ther than any other team in for the tournament's selection to play well like they did four games. Aside from Seton school history -only to lose committee to hand the Irish an 
The Irish have some unfin­against Seton Hall. Hall, they defeated Providence to Michigan in penalty kicks. at-large berth. ished business, a little more "We've been pretty success­and Pittsburgh on the road Last season, Notre Dame Stephens summed up Irish motivation to win tonight's 7 ful this season to get where with one-goal margins of vic­was seeded fifth in the NCAAs hopes as they enter the Big 
p.m. home game against we are and we're still in very tory. but was eliminated by Ohio East tournament in one last Syracuse. If Notre Dame loses good shape to make the NCAA Clark said that the team was State 2-1 in a first round tour­attempt to prolong the year. at Alumni Field tournament," he outworked against Indiana -nament game at Alumni Field. "It's the post-season," tonight in the said. "We've done something unusual for the Notre Dame is looking to Stephens said. "It's do-or-die." first round of the '7 guess it's a new a lot of things Irish, who went 2-1-2 in over­either win the conference Big East tourna­well this year." time games this year. crown and take the Big East's Contact Kate Gales at
type ofpressure,
ment, their NCAA The Irish will "We can't get outworked automatic berth in the NCAA kgales@nd.edu
because we've 
Tournament put the regular [tonight] because there's no hopes will be in always known we season behind excuse for that," Clark said. serious jeopardy. them and start 0-"This is a fit team but I think
would make the 
"l guess it's a 0-0 for the con­for some reason we got out­
NCAAs either way.,, 
new type of pres­ference tourna­worked a little bit in [the 
by the numbers 

sure, because ment and, if all Indiana game)." we've always John Stephens goes well, the Getting mentally and physi­
Consecutive NCAA tournament appearances by Notre

known we would NCAA champi­cally ready for tonight's game
Irish captain Dame. If the squad fails to make this year's field, it will 
make the NCAAs onships. shouldn't be a problem, 
be the first time since Irish coach Bobby Clark was at 
4

either way," sen-"Now we have according to the fifth-year 
Stanford in 1996 that he didn't lead ateam to the NCAAs.

ior captain John Stephens to start putting it together for Irish coach. said. the [Big East] tournament," "I think we'll be prepared 
Home losses this Irish senior class has suffered in the last 

The Irish defeated Syracuse Clark said. "I think the big tomorrow," Clark said. "The 
four seasons. Notre Dame dropped three games at Alumni
7

1-0 on Sept. 18 in New York. thing now is we're pretty well guys know what's at stake, 
Field this season but was undefeated at home in 2004. 

They have a seven-game win­aware of what this game and I think we'll be fine." ning streak against the means and we've Stephens said 
Shots on goal Irish forward Joe Lapira has recorded in 2005. 

Orange, who are seeded sixth got to go for it. the team is eager 
This number leads the team and is 36 more than any other 
65

in the Big East conference's You've got to "/ think we'll be for the matchup 
Notre Dame player.

Red Division. Notre Dame take it as though against Syracuse.
prepared
enters the contest the No. 3 it might be your "I think we're 
Irish players -midfielders lan Etherington and Greg

tomorrow.
seed from the Blue Division. last game and excited," he said. 
Dalby-named to the preseason all-Big East team.
2

"If we have the same you've got to get. The guys know "Maybe there's a 
Postseason honors have not yet been released. 

urgency that we approached going." little bit of
what's at stake, 
Seton Hall with, we'll be fine," The team fin­nerves. For us it 
Shutouts this season by Huskies goalie Adam Schuerman. The senior 
1o

and I think we'll be
Irish coach Bobby Clark said. ished the regular could be our last 
now owns the school record with 34 total in his career. 

In their final regular season season 10-6-2, fine.,, game ever but it 

game after a 3-0 loss to No. 5 very much on the doesn't really set 
Indiana, the Irish upset No. 16 borderline of in -you keep 
Big East teams in the NSCAA/Adidas Top 25 -No. 7

Bobby Clark 
Seton Hall in a lopsided 4-0 consideration for rolling with prac­
Connecticut, No. 16 St. John's and No. 21 Seton Hall.

Irish coach 
3

victory. Stephens called the the NCAA tour­tice the way game the highlight of the sea­nament. Clark you've always son as forward Joe Lapira tal­isn't looking quite that far done and you just kind of 
The last time Syracuse made the Big East Tournament. The 


2o o o 

lied two goals and an assist ahead, however. · expect that things will go your 
Irish face the Orange tonight at 7p.m. at Alumni Field. 

while goalies Chris Cahill and "You'd better make sure that way." 
Justin Michaud combine-d for it's not our last game -that's The Irish won the Big East 
the shutout. our attitude," he said. "I think regular season title last year. 
Saves this season by Irish goalie Chris Cahill, compared to

Clark said the team is we had a great attitude last In 2003, they won the confer­
18 goals scored by opponents.
67

approaching this game like Saturday and we've got to ence tournament then 

Graphics by GRAHAM EBETSCH/The Observer  
MOVIE REVIEW  
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA  reasons they succeed -and linger around Halloween season -are the gen­ amassed plenty of experience from star­ring roles in two popular telnvision  Probably not. While Wainwright and the rnst of' his  
Scene Ediwr  uine thrills, scares and heart-pounding  drams, "Smallville" and "Lost" respee­ crew  crank  up  tlwir  artif'ieial  fog  
chase scenes that draw the audicncn  tively. But their characters are so one­ machines throughout the lilm's pivotal  
For sonw mason. the powers that be at  into  the  action.  While  "The  Fog"  dimensional, it's hard to empathize with  scenes, the novelty of thn billowing nf'f'nct  
Hevolution Studios thought it was a good  attempts to play off' the genre's rich tra­ their woeful predicament. In fact, one of  quickly wears out its welcomn. In fact, it  
idea to di'Op  I X million dollars into the  ditions, it fails  on  all three of these  every thrne lines Welling spouts ofT  seems like thn film's budget was gearnd  
hands of director Hupert Wainwright,  fronts. The film's apparitions eome  seems to be, "Come on. Wn need to kenp  more towards crnating eomputnr-gnnnr­ 
giving him free r11ign on a 21st n~ntury  across more as mild annoyances than  moving," as he herds the survivors of' the  ated fog banks than any other chilling  
remake of "Tlw Fog."  palpable thrc~ats, easily avoided and  fog from one town locale to the next.  sol. pieces. None of' the hazards pose  
Bdorn the scTipt was even written.  lacking any real  This doesn't exactly  much of' a challengn for the film's intrnp­ 
"The Fog," a mmake of horror kingpin .John Caqwntnr's 11JHO version, is a fail­ peril. The  cast  of  The Fog  qualify as riveting entertainment.  id heroes as they run disjointedly from one fright to the next, unf'ortunatnly  
urn on  multipln fronts,  not the lnast of  "The  Fog,"  a  Selma  Blair's  dragging the audinnen along for tho ridn.  
which is its papm-thin nxcuse for a plot.  rnotlny collec­ ("Hellboy") charac­ So far, "The Fog" has taknn in  ovnr  
Onn hundrnd ynars following tho mys­ tion  of  ter, Stevie Wayne, is  $25 million in its thnatrkal tour of medi­ 
tnrious, undnrhandnd founding of Antonio Bay, a sloop, isolatnd coastal town, vengeful spirits rnturn to wreck havoc on the descendents of the town's first settlnrs. Inhabiting a supernatural,  Hollywood's ris­ing young stars, put on a brave face and try tiH1ir best with  Director: Rupert Wainwright Writer: Cooper Layne Starring: Tom Welling, Maggie Grace, Selma Blair and DeRay Davis  thrown into the mix as part of a love tri­angle. But the laek of any real passion, or even empathy,  ocrity. And it's liknly that semi-strong DVI> sales will hnlp drop a tidy sum of' money into the pocknts of' thn film's fin­anciers, which is the real travnsty of' "The Fog." Its suceess will probably fun I  
malieious fog, these spirits plague the  the film's lean  between the charac­ the vicious cyele of' llollywood studios  
characters at inopportune moments  material. But they don't have nearly the  ters  dashes  another  of the  film's  dropping money into unneeessary films.  
throughout thn film.  eolossal amount of charisma needed to  attempts to rise above its cookie-cuttnr  Even bnforn a script is writtnn.  
If' the plot sounds hokey, it is. There  right this sinking ship. Tom Welling and  nature. And does it even qualify as a rnal  
arn countlnss, dassie horror films that  Maggie Grace, who play ill-fated lovers  love triangle if Blair and Grace's charac­ Contact Rama Gottumukkala at  
ariso from similarly thin plots. But the  Nick Castle and Elizabeth Williams, have  ters exehange hardly a dozen words'?  rgottumu@nd.edu  

DVD REVIEW 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
As,istal\1 Scene Ediwr 
.John Carpenter was tlw mastnr of HOs horror. 1\xamples of' his dominanee are films as "Prince of' Darkness" and "The Thing," both masterph~ces in their respec­tive gnnrns within tho horror industry. 
But thosn horror movies worn simply additions to an almady strong base in hor­ror. llis debut film in thn genre, "llallowc~cm," laundwd a successful snrins and nstablishnd Carpentor's throno in thn genrn. llis follow-up film, "The Fog," cmnnnted his role as a horror maostro. 
Hnprnsenting his second collaboration with tlw still young Jamie Lne Curtis, "The I;og" was a suspnnseful taln of rnvenge from bnyond tho gravn. In thn film, a northnrn California lishing town is visited by a particularly thick, unsnttling fog. As the plot unfolds. howevnr, it reveals that tho fog is hiding malevolent beings, ghosts from a lep11r colony the town was built upon ovnr I00 years ago. Tlu~y were wronged many years ago, and every hun­dred years they rnturn to take their rnvonge. 
Much of the fright the movie contains is from drawn out suspense. Carpenter uses music and shot composition expertly to eroate a forbidding, ominous atmosphere. 
The prevalence of the aforementionnd fog also creates a sense of daustrophobia for the audience, as it can never be sure what is hiddnn just out of view. The audi­ence will find itself asking, "was that a shadow, or was that a ghost?" 
The ghosts in the movie aren't the stan­dard Hollywood version either. These ghosts can be particularly gruesome, as they are more akin to zombies that actual ghosts. Instead of the glowing apparitions that arn nxpncted from Hollywood ghosts, the audience receives dripping, leprous moving corpses. 
Location helps the atmosphere. All of the settings have an ominous feel to them, even without being covered in fog. The fog-drenched old church, the lighthouse and the coastline itself all lend to a creepy, unsettling atmosphere. They arc so effec­tive, they should almost be considered characters within the film unto them­selves. 
All of the principal actors within the film do a commendable job of conveying the 
situation. Jamie Lee Curtis, Janet Leigh and 
The Fog 

John Houseman, all per­formed eonvincingly, a 
Special Edition

trait that can often be lacking in horror films. It's 
MGM Home Video

also internsting to watch Curtis and Leigh aet on the same screen, being moth­er and daughter. 
llal Holbrook does a 


particularly well-done per­formance in his role as the frightened priest Father Malone. lie realizes too late what is happening to his town, and becomes the proverbial captain of' the sinking ship. Carpenter would go on to create a similar role to Father Malone in the "Prince of Darkness." 
Of course, by modern standards the movie hasn't stood well the test of time. The dated dothing may be enough to turn some people off, as well as the now diche special effects and scare techniques. What was once considered shocking has become diluted over the years through repetition, dulling much of the movie's impact. 
However, newcomers to the realm of horror will lind plenty to like within the film. The blood is non-existent, something that many people apprndate when wateh­ing a movie. The searns arn also not too cheap, as they are mostly drawn out through suspnnsn. 

Ilorror film hull's would also do well to wateh ''Thn Fog," as it has played an obvi­ous influence on modern horror. It was such an influential movie in its time that over twenty years later, a remake was created. 
But there's simply no boating the origi­nal when it comes to searns. 
Contact Mark Bemcnderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 



Pholo courtesy of movieweb.com Rupert Wainwright's remake of Carpenter's "The Fog" was budgeted before a script existed. The new "Fog" fails to live up to the scares of its predecessor. 
THE OBSERVER 






CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, November 2, 2005 
LEGENDS EVENT 

Coen Brothers' 'Fargo' will show at Legends 
By CHRIS MCGRADY Assistanr Scene Editor 
The human condition is often depict­ed in modern society as tragic and petty. "Fargo" is a masterful portrayal of these very conditions. 
The film, released in 1996, is skillful­ly directed and written by Joel and Ethan Coen, who are known in Hollywood as simply "the Coen Brothers." "Fargo" is considered by many to be the Coen Brothers' best work. 
The film is a poignant example of American cinema at its best, combining facets of suspense, drama and a keen insight into human nature to provide a virtual smorgasbord of visual and intel­lectual stimulation. 
Perhaps the opening scene of the movie offers the 
Lundegaard. Lundegaard is in a spot of financial trouble (the likes of which is never revealed to the viewer) and seeks financial recompense through an elab­orate plan to have his wife Jean Lundegaard, played by Kristin Rudriid, kidnapped and held for ransom. He invokes the help of two low-life crimi­nals, Carl Showalter (played by Steve Buscemi) and Gaear Grimsrud (played by Peter Stormare). 
Lundegaard's plan is to have his wife kidnapped and held for $1,000,000 ransom, giving $40,000 of which to the kidnappers and keeping the rest for himself. However, as a series of mishaps causes the slaying of three innocent people. Lundegaard sifts deeper and deeper into a mire of mur­der and deception. 
The film's strongest qualities lie in its ability to provide the viewer with a sense of the human 

most insight into condition in a situation
'Fargo'
the dark direc­of deep desperation tion of the film. Brew andView and helplessness. The opening Through the adroit ly
Venue: Legends

strains of the effective acting skills
Time: Thursday, following nightly 
film's score, of both Macy and
performance

composed by Buscemi, "Fargo" is
Director: Joel Coen

Carter Burtwell, able to find a sense of
Starring: William H. Macy, Frances 
first provide the humor, albeit a dark
McDormand and Steve Buscemi 

viewer with a feeling of the friendliness of the far north reaches of United States. 
However, this feeling is sharply con­trasted with the stunning visual images of the frozen tundra of North Dakota. As the music progresses, the rural feel gives way to a hauntingly chilling ambiance, foreshadowing the dark events that are sure to ensue. 
"Fargo" stars William H. Macy as a financially troubled car salesman Jerry one, in the most sinis­
ter acts of human 
character. 
Providing a glimpse of the positive side of human existence is the preg­nant sheriff Marge Gunderson, played by Frances McDormand. 
"There's more to life than a little money, you know, " Gunderson says, offering her positively-minded insight into the decrepit state of the desperate man's mind as she speaks to one of the kidnappers. 
Gunderson has found happiness in a fulfilling career and a loving husband, and attempts to soften the mood of the movie as a beacon of virtue in an oth­erwise dark film. 
Furthering Fargo's bid as one of the best movies of the 1990s is the stun­ning cinematography. The stark white atmosphere of the movie is contrasted piercingly with the dark nature of the film. The cold climate depicted throughout "Fargo" is compared effec­tively with the cold feelings that per­meate several of the main characters' hearts. These subtle nuances are the aspects that elevate "Fargo" from being a good film into being a great film. 
"Fargo" will be showing this Thursday at midnight as part of Legend's "Brew and View." 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd.edu 
TV SPOTLIGHT 

The WB' s newest hit show 'Related' disappoints 
By COURTNEY WILSON 
Scene Writer 
It's been advertised as a sort of "Sex and the City" for families, but "Helated," the WB's attempt to capture an older female audience, lacks most of the elements which made that show so appealing. 
"Helated" follows the lives of four "closer than close" sisters who depend on each other in just about every aspect of their daily lives. The Sorelli Sisters are a little mixed up, as each battles with some sort of distinguishing obstacle associated with certain con­ventional stages in a 

'Related'
woman's life. 
Finally, there is the eldest sister Ginnie. She is the mother-hen-type sis­ter of the group, who is both newly pregnant and a full-fledged workaholic. 
Each sister is so preoccupied with each other's lives that it becomes frus­tratingly clear that most of their dilem­mas are the spawn of some overly demanding desire to be accepted and praised by one another. 
Since they are depicted stressing out over nearly everything, the banter between them becomes overwhelming­ly exhausting. As a comedy set in trendy New York City, a sort of "Friends"-like humor might be expect­ed -especially since executive pro­ducer Marta Kauffman comes directly from the highly successful televi­

Rose (Lauren  When: Wednesdays, 9 p.m.  sion favorite.  
Breckenridge).  Channel: WB  Additionally, the show's  
the baby of the group, is a col­ Starring: Lizzy Caplan, Kiele Sanchez and Lauren Breckenridge  creator, Liz Tucillo, was a writer for female favorite  

lege student who has just switched her major from a tidy "Pre-Med" to "Experimental Theater." 
Then there is the "fresh out of col­lege, working to get her career started" character Marjee (Lizzy Caplan, of "Mean Girls"). As an aspiring celebrity­event planner, she is probably the most dynamic character of the group. Marjee has a desire for independence, yet ends up whining for help at just about every turn. 
Next, there is Ann (Kiele Sanchez), a therapist who was dumped by her six­year boyfriend right around the time the average woman is looking for a ring. 
"Sex and the City." So how 
does a show with such a 
highly regarded staff fall into a pit of immense disappointment? 
The set-up has the potential for an enthusiastic female audience, but who­ever is writing the script will have to get on the ball and start exploring less one-dimensional and superficial sce­narios. 
The four lead actresses are all con­siderably talented, but they just need a bit more motivation to make things happen. The show is set in the big city of New York, but rarely uses its con­venient location to set in motion an exciting plot. 
Both "Sex and The City," and fellow WB sitcom "Gilmore Girls" thrive on have to implement a bit more creativi­ty. 


Watch "Helated" on Wednesday nights at 9 p.m. on the WB and see what all the hype is about. Potential disappointment is forewarned. 
Contact Courtney Wtlson at cwilson6@nd.edu 
their clever, fast paced and witty humor -all of which are elements missing from the early episodes of "Related." 
Given the show's slow start, it has already been moved from its Wednesday night premier to a less competitive Monday-night spot. If the show is to gain a loyal audience, it will 

Wednesday, November 2, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
Don't forget about MOVIES in the BROWNING CINEMA 
Call 631-FILM for a recorded list of this week's showings! 

, 




RADIOHEAD:SIGUR ROS 

THEATRE 


I I I llli~!BII.alll illa'B~ill! 

WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 2 AT 7:30PM I STUDENT TICKETS: $15 
... AND DON'T MISS MERCE CUNNINGHAM ON FILM IN THE BROWNING CINEMA ON THURS. NOV. 3 AT 7 AND 10 PM 
YOU'VE HEARD HIM WITH 
Wyclef Jean, Sting, and Peter Gabriel 
THE VOICE OF AFRICA 

YOUSSOU N'DOUR 
THE EGYPT TOUR 
Sun. Nov. 6 at 7 PM I Leighton Concert Hall Student Tickets: $20 
SPECIAL OXFAM INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT CONCERT 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, November 2, 2005 
NHL 
Islanders knock off Bruins 4-3 in overtime 
the high slot at 52 seconds.

Detroit .continues its 
Niinimaa, who also helped set early-season success, up Kvasha, netted his first of the season with an assist fromdowns Chicago 4-1 Yashin. After rushing into the Boston zone, Yashin stopped and pulled the puck back out toward
Associated Press the blue line as he waited for UNIONDALE, N.Y. -Shawn help. Yashin spotted Niinimaa to Bates scored with 28.2 seconds his left and fed him a quick pass. left in overtime and the New The puck left Niinimaa's stick York Islanders recovered from just as quickly, beating a sur­two blown leads to beat the prised Toivonen to make it 2-0 at Boston Bruins Tuesday night. 11:56 of the first. Bates, a Massachusetts native, Yashin, a longtime center, was took a breakout pass from Jason shifted to left wing after playing Blake in front of defenseman Jiri the position in Russia last season Slegr and came in alone on rook­during the lockout. New York ie Hannu Toivonen. His quick coach Steve Stirling made the shot got through for his second move to give Yashin less defen­goal of the season. sive responsibility and get him Joe Thornton tied it for Boston higher in the Islanders zone so with only 1:01 left in regulation, he can break out quicker on just after the Bruins pulled offense. Toivonen for an extra attacker. It It wasn't the only line combina­was the Bruins' fourth overtime tion affected, as Stirling moved loss in six games. other players around partly to Thornton, who also assisted on get injured forward Mark Nick Boynton's goal that got Parrish back into the lineup. Boston even at 2 in the second Parrish missed four games period, flipped a shot into traflic because of a hip injury. in front. The puck came back to him and he slid another shot that Detroit 4, Chicago 1 found its way w1der goalie Garth DETROIT -Chris Osgood Snow's stick. made 23 saves after replacing The late goal enabled the the injured Manny Legace, and Bruins to earn a point for the the Detroit Red Wings beat the sixth straight game. Chicago Blackhawks Tuesday goal with 8:20 remaining in the up a short-handed score as the Rasmussen. Rasmussen's goal Defenseman Chris Campoli night for their ninth straight win. third period. teams ended the first period tied tied the game with 2:12 left. gave the Islanders a 3-2 lead Jason Williams had a goal and at 2. The loss was the first after two 
4:39 into the third period by an assist for the Red Wings (12-Atlanta 6, Tampa Bay 4 Richards put the Lightning up wins for Clemmensen, who has beating Toivonen with a 50-foot 1-0) and Kirk Maltby, Brett TAMPA, Fla. -Jaroslav Modry 1-0 at 4:43. The Thrashers tied started the last three games in wrist shot. Lebda, and Brendan Shanahan scored two of Atlanta's four on Modry's power-play goal at place of injured Martin Brodeur. 
Snow, filling in for regular New also scored in the third straight power-play goals. leading the 11:09. He sprained his knee last York goalie Rick DiPietro game between the teams. Thrashers over the Tampa Bay Richards regained the lead for Wednesday against Tampa Bay (bruised knee), made 29 saves in Nicklas Lidstrom had two assists. Lightning Tuesday night. Tampa Bay with a short-handed and is expected to return in the his second game as a starter. Legace left the game with a Atlanta converted on all of its score with 2:37 left, before next game or two. Toivonen stopped 19 shots in his slight knee sprain with 3:23 man-advantage situations Atlanta tied it again on Bondra's Maxime Talbot's short-handed third start in place of Andrew remaining in the first period against the NHL's top penalty­power-play goal 40 seconds later. goal early in the third period Raycraft, out with an injured after Chicago's Matthew Barnaby killing unit. The Lightning had The second period started in a gave Pittsburgh a 3-1 lead. Matt hamstring. fell on him. Legace, who made allowed three goals in 62 short­similar fashion. Vincent Murley stripped Devils defense­
For the second straight game, eight saves, was expected to handed situations. Lecavalier gave Tampa Bay its man Vladimir Malakhov just out­the Islanders couldn't protect a undergo precautionary X-rays on The Thrashers took their first third lead at 4:37, before the side the Penguins zone and fed third-period lead at home. They Wednesday. lead at 4-3 when Marian Hossa Thrashers got their third power­Talbot on a two-on-one. dominated the first half of the Detroit defenseman Jiri skated in from the right wing play goal by Slava Kozlov at 8:59. The Penguins took advantage first period and grabbed a 2-0 Fischer retaliated against boards and lifted a shot over of a power play in the second advantage on goals by Oleg Barnaby and both players got 5-goalie John Grahame at 3:03 of Pittsburgh 4, New Jersey 3 OT period to take the lead after Kvasha and Janne Niinimaa. minute fighting penalties. the third. Modry gave Atlanta a EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -spotting the Devils a 1-0 lead. 
But former Islanders player Adrian Aucoin scored the only two-goal lead on a power-play Sergei Gonchar scored 1:01 into With Sergei Brylin off for hook­Dave Scatchard cut the Bruins' goal for Chicago (3-9-0), which goal with 7:01left. overtime to lift Pittsburgh over ing and Zach Parise serving a deficit in half with 4:39 left in the lost its fourth straight. The Lightning got within 5-4 the New Jersey Devils Tuesday minor for the Devils having too first period and Boynton tied it Maltby scored the lone goal of on Vmny Prospal's goal at 15:08 night for the Penguins' second many men on the ice, defense­
10:06 into the second off a face­the first period when he put in of the third, but Atlanta's Ilya victory of the season. man Ryan Whitney's wrister off win by Thornton. his own rebound with 4:01 Kovalchuk finished the scoring Gonchar took the puck in his from the right circle was gloved 
Snow kept the Islanders from remaining. with an empty-netter with 17 own end, split the Devils' defense by Clemmensen and pinned falling behind in the middle peri­Lebda had a power-play goal seconds left. He also had three and shoveled a backhander past against the near post. od by stopping 16 shots as at 7:34 of the second period as assists, giving him eight assists goalie Scott Clemmensen. The puck was ruled not to Boston controlled play. New York his shot from along the goal line and 12 points during a five-game The overtime period was the have crossed the goal line, but led Buffalo 4-3 in the third peri­deflected in off Nikolai points streak. sixth for the Penguins (2-5-5) this the Devils' reprieve was short­od Saturday before yielding three Khabibulin's pads. Shanahan's Atlanta got a goal and two season in 12 games. They had lived. As soon as Brylin stepped straight goals for the Islanders' eight score of the season, with assists from Peter Bondra, lost all five previous times, four back on the ice, Whitney took a third loss in four games. 4:50 left in the period, made it 3-increasing his career totals to 41 during the overtime period and pass from Gonchar in almost the 
The Islanders' new top line 0. goals and 57 points in 55 games one on a sudden-death shootout. same spot that Clemmensen needed less than a minute to Aucoin's power-play goal, a against Tampa Bay. Sebastien Caron, who finished stopped. Sidney Crosby poked click as Kvasha, now centering shot from the point with 1:37 left Brad Richards had two goals with 26 saves, held the Devils to the puck in the air over and Alexei Yashin and Miroslav in the second, got Chicago on the for the Lightning. one goal until midway through behind the goalie, and Mark Satan, scored his first of the sea­board. Atlanta scored two power-play the third period, then gave up Recchi reached in and poked it son. Kvasha beat Toivonen from Williams added a power-play goals in two chances and gave goals to Brian Gionta and Erik across the line. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
1·bedroom apt 1-mile from ND in quiet historic neighborhood, $575/month. Call 283·0325 

FOR RENT 
YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apartments available for 06-07 school year. Call today 235-7234. 
Rooms in private home for rent during ND football weekends orother ND·SMC events. Call 243-0658. 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES MMM· RENTALS.COM 532-1408 
House for rent. 3 BR, 1 BA, 2 Car Gar. Clay Area. $700/mo. 574·210·8308. 
KRAMER PROPERTIES HOUSES FOR LEASE FOR THE 06/07 SCHOOL YEAR. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 4 BEDROOMS, UPTO 10 BEDROOMS. CALL 315·5032 ASK FOR KRAMER. 

KRAMER PROPERTIES HAS 1 SINGLE FAMILY HOME AVAILABLE. 140 N.SHORE BLVD. 3 BEDROOMS,1.5 BATHS. GREAT FOR PROFESSORS, STAFF, OR GRAD STUDENTS. CALL 315­5032, ASK FOR KRAMER. 
Beachwalk resort-Rent this 3 bedroom 2.5 bath home in Beachwalk Resort Community located in Michigan City, IN. Great for football weekends! Close to shopping and riverboat gambling $700/weekend. Weekly rates also available. Email caldanaro@yahoo.com 
Walk to ND. Rooms for weekends. Best rates. Kitchen. 272-0842. 

WANTED 
NOW HIRING Have a car? Need some extra cash? Jimmy John s is hiring drivers for all shifts. Contact Chuck at 286-0299. 
Ten girls from the Class of 2005 looking for a place within walking distance to ND to rent for the Tennessee weekend. Call Andrea at 651-308-9285 

TICKETS 

WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE FOR $$: www. victorylickets.com 
BUYING & SELLING ND FOOTBALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or some· one you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 Days from $299! Includes Meals, MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica From $499! Campus Reps Needed! PromoCode:31 www.springbreak· travel.com 1-800-678-6386 

AROUND THE NATION 

Wednesday, November 2, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
DRUG TESTING

BCS Standings 
team rl'cord avg 
1 usc 8-0 .9767 2 Texas 8-0 .9729 3 Virginia Tech 8-0 .9294 4 Alabama 8-0 .8695 5 UCLA 8-0 .7874 6 Miami (FL) 6-1 .7566 7 Penn Slate 7-1 .6905 8 LSU 6-2 .6875 9 Florida State 7-1 .6277 10 Ohio State 8-1 .5967 11 Georgia 7-1 .5864 12 Wisconsin 8-1 .5630 13 Oregon 7-1 .5458 14 NOTRE DAME 5-2 .4859 15 Texas Tech 7-1 .4496 16 Florida 6-2 .4154 17 West Virginia 6-1 .4076 18 TCU 8-1 .2924 19 Boston College 6-2 .2605 20 Auburn 6-2 .2271 21 Michigan 6-3 .2158 22 Colorado 6-2 .1746 23 California 6-2 .1411 24 Fresno State 6-1 .1022 25 Oklahoma 5-3 .0704 
NHL 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
(Pam rnrord OTI. points NY Rangers 6-4 3 15 Philadelphia 6-3 1 13 New Jersey 6-5 1 13 NY Islanders 6-6 0 12 Pittsburgh 2-5 5 9 
AP 

Sen. John McCain {R-Ariz.) speaks at the Convention Center in the Green Zone in Baghdad on Feb. 19. McCain
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
and Sen. Jim Bunning {R-Kent.) are spearheading Congress' steroid legislation. 
tPam rneord OTL points 
Montreal 9-3 1 19 Ottawa 8-2 0 16 
New steroids legislation in the works
Buffalo 7-4 0 14 Toronto 6-4 2 14 Boston 5-5 4 14 
Associated Press nr, said the nnw legislation a two-year suspension for Government Heform would be introduced an athlete who fails a Committee. That panel
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
WASIIINGTON -Aiming Tunsday or Wednesday. steroids test for the first hPld tho March 17 hearing tPam record OTL points to spur baseball and other "We have heard a lot of time and a lifetime ban for with Bafanl l'almoiro, Carolina 8·2 1 11 sports to adopt tougher talk from professional a sncond oiTonse. Athletes Mark Md;wirn and hasp­Tampa Bay 7-4 2 16 steroids policies, Sens. Jim sports leagues that they would be tested at least ball ollkials. Florida 6-5 2 14 Bunning and John McCain would do something to five times a year, three "If pro sports leagues Washington 4-7 0 8 are reintroducing legisla­clean up this mess, but so during the snason and two don't gel a haiHlle on this Atlanta 4-8 0 8 tion that would standard­far it has bonn just that: a in the oiTseason. The pro­problem on their own, 
ize drug testing and penal­lot of talk," Bunning said posal has a provision urg­members of Congress will Western Conference, Central Division tins for professional Tuesday during a confnr­ing lnagues to erase be morn than willing to do leagues. enen call with reporters. records achieved with tho it for them," Davis
lllam rneord OT points 
Tho new bill combines "llopefully Congress' help of performance­spokesman Dave Marin 
Detroit 12·1 0 24 
two already proposed sep­action will light a fire enhancing drugs. wrotn in an e-mail to Tlw
Nashville 8-1 1 17 
arately by Bunning, a under their feet to come to Thren llousn bills with Assoeiatml l'rnss. "No mat­
Columbus 4·8 0 8 
Kentucky Hepubliean who an agreement before we similar testing minimums ter which bill ultimately
Chicago 3-9 0 6 
was nlnctnd to baseball's do it for them." and punishmnnts have moves forward, orw thing
St. louis 2·7 2 6 
llall of' Fame in 1996, and Like the earlier bills been proposed, including is certain: In tho absntH'P McCain, an Arizona from Bunning arid McCain, onn sponsored by Tom of snll'-inilialed progress,
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
Hnpublican. Bunning, a this one is based on the Davis, the Virginia lngislation bneomos a mat­tnam rm~ord OT points 
former major lnague pitch-Olympic mod11l, calling for Hepublican who chairs the lor of when, not if." Vancouver 8-2 2 18 Minnesota 6-4 2 14 Colorado 6-4 1 13 Edmonton 5-6 1 11 IN BRIEF Calgary 4-7 2 10 
Big Ben questionable for Green Bay (1-6) in 10 years, but it of' a ganw, and playing solid, sound Western Conference, Pacific Division Sunday's game vs Packers is unlikely Hoethlisberger will dnf'ensn is ono of' them." tmun rncord OT points PITTSBUHGII Ben attempt to practico Wednesday Geor_~ia QB practices 
Hoothlisbergor's right knee injury American League Gold aheaoof schedule
Los Angeles 8-4 0 16 Dallas 6-4 1 13 
apparnntly isn't serious, but Gloves announced ATHENS, Ga. -(;eorgia quarter­Pittsburgh Steelers coach Bill NEW YOHK-Snattln outl'inlder back ILl. Shocklny was har.k in prac­
Anaheim 6-5 1 13 
San Jose 6-5 1 13 Cowher isn't ready to say if .his lchiro Suzuki, Minnnsota outficldnr tice Tuesday -though only on a lim­Phoenix 5·8 1 11 quarterback will be ready to play Torii Hunter and Oakland third ited basis -just lhrnn days af'lnr a Sunday in Green Bay. baseman Eric Chavez won their sprained knee kept him nul of a loss 
Hoothlisberger underwent an MHI firth straight Cold Cloves on to Florida. exam Tuesday, about 12 hours af'tnr Tuesday. Shockley, wnaring a grnnn non­tho Steelers' 20-19 victory over Boston catcher Jason Varitek, contaet jersey and a brace on his IPI'l 
Baltimore, and was given a prelimi­Texas first baseman Mark Tnixeira knee, did not participate in tlw

around the dial 
nary diagnosis of a strained posteri­and Toronto second baseman scrimmage portion of' tlw practkn. or capsule. Tho injury affects the Orlando lludson were first-time The senior reported no soreness range of' motion of' the knee and can winners, while Nnw York Yankees alter working in other drills. 
NHL be vory painful. shortstop Derek Jeter and Toronto "lin looked prntty good. lin's a nat­"All ligaments arc line, and we'll outfielder Vernon W1~lls won for the ural born leader and lw was lnading
Ottawa at Buffalo 7:00 p.m., TSN 
get a further update as the week second straight season. out thorn," said backup quartnrhark goes on," Cowher said Tuesday. Texas pitcher Kenny Hogers won Joe Tnrnshinski, who lillnd in as t.lw
NBA "Thorn's nothing serious coming out for tho fourth time overall and sec­starter in Saturday's 14-10 loss to tlw Philadelphia at Detroit 8:00p.m., ESPN of tho game as wo speak.... ond in a row. Gators. LA Lakers at Denver 10:30 p.m., ESPN llopd'ully it's something he ean con­"Defense usually doesn't make Toreshinski said he still took most 
tinue to work through, and we'll many headlines, but it goes a long of the snaps with the l'irst-lnam rest him when we can and sen way towards winning basnball offense Tuesday, but. Shockley is
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
where he is at the end of the week." games," Jeter said in a statmmmt. expneted lo start in No. II Ceorgia'sUConn at West Virginia 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 "There are a number of' ways to next game against No. 17 Auburn on
Tho Stnelers have a short week of practice bnf'ore their first trip to make an impact during the eotirse Nov. 12. 
Wednesday, November 2, 2005 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA FooTBALL 

USC faces last team to beat Trojans ·at home 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Only a few years ago, the Los Angeles Coliseum was usually half­empty ·when Southern California played, or as coach Pete Carroll clarified recently in a defining measure of his per­sonality, half-full. 
One of those days was Sept. 29, 2001. when the Trojans entertained Stanford before a crowd of 53,962 in Carroll's first season. 
The Card ina) took a 21-0 half­time lead before holding off the Trojans 21-16, dropping USC to 1-3 and further convincing many die-hard fans that Carroll was another bad hire, as Paul I Iaekett had been before him. 
That loss dropped the Trojans to 32-32 since they went 9-2-1 and won the Hose Bowl in the 1995-scason. 
Fast-forward to tho present, and Carroll is the model for col­lege football coaches every­where, having guidBd his team to 30 straight victories and a shot at an unprecedented third eonseeutivB national champi­onship. 
USC is unbeaten at home 
since that loss to Stanford, hav­ing won a school-record 24 straight at the Coliseum, where crowds of more than 90,000 are the norm these days. 
The Trojans can make it 25 Saturday night when they host Stanford for the second time since the loss four years ago. They beat the Cardinal 44-21 before a crowd of 68,341 in 2003. 
"Yeah, I've been reminded," Carroll said with a smile Tuesday when asked if he remembered his team's last loss at home. 
With that, he rattled ofT sev­eral details, mentioning Luke Powell, "a little wide receiver who killed us," along with USC's second-half comeback that fell short and Stanford's solid defense and overall experience. 
The Trojans would lose again the following week, falling to Washington 27-24 in Seattle to drop to 1-4. 
They've lost only five games since then while winning 49. 
The Trojans have had several close calls during their winning streak, including last year at Stanford when they rallied from a 28-17 halftime deficit for a 31-28 victory. 

"They almost knocked us off," USC offensive tackle Sam Baker recalled. "We know they're a real good team. That was my first game where I thought, 'Whoa! We might Jose here."' 
USC (8-0, 5-0) is favored by a whopping 33 points over the Cardinal (4-3, 3-2), who are coming off a 30-27 overtime loss to No. 7 UCLA in a game they Jed 24-3 with 8 1/2 min­utes remaining. 
"They really controlled the football game throughout," Carroll said. "Within a dozen plays, the game absolutely flip­flopped. There were a number of ways they could have gotten it done. On the other side, UCLA was really executing in the fourth quarter." 
Carroll said that knowing Stanford coach Walt Harris, he expects the Cardinal to respond in a positive way to the tough loss. 
"Walt's been coaching too long to let his team not respond," Carroll said. 
Carroll and Harris have a long personal history. Carroll was the first player Harris signed to a letter of intent while a young assistant coach at the University of Pacific, where Carroll played safety in the early 1970s. 

"l-Ie's done a great job, and on a pBrs<mal note, I'm very excit­ed about all the things he's aecomplished," Harris said. "lie's a great guy and a great coach." 

NBA 
Autopsy shows Hawks' Collier died from enlarged heart 
Associated Press 
DECATUH, Ga. -Atlanta Hawks center Jason Collier died from a sudden heart rhythm disturbanee caused by an abnormally enlarged heart, an autopsy showed. 
The state's chief medical examiner, Dr. Kris Sperry, said Tuesday his testing showed that electrocardiograms admin­istered to Collier in 2003 and this year showed "some indica­tion of electrical abnormali­ties." 
"Looking at them now, and in retrospect in knowing what's going on with his heart, the abnormalities may have been 
"If it were me, I would 

associated with were negli­what we found have wanted more gent in in examining his clearing
studies done to clarify

heart," Sperry Collier to
what those 

said. play in the 
He said that he abnormalities meant in · NBA. had no evidence light of the fact Jason He said an 
that the 28-year­enlarged
was an athlete. " 

old Collier was heart can be informed there very difficult was anything Kris Sperry to detect, wrong with his especially
Medical examiner 
having trouble breathing in his suburban Atlanta home. 
Sperry indicated that the family has concerns about the medical tests in 2003 and 2005 and "when we get all the find­ings back I think the family will have some of those examined in closer detail, based upon the results." 
He said tissue and blood sam­ples had been sent to the Mayo Clinic and Harvard Medical School for further tests to determine whether Collier had hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, a congenital defect that can lead to an enlarged heart. 
Sperry did not say that the 
Hawks or 
Rockets 

heart. Collier's wife said he had never been told of a reason for concern, Sperry said. 
Collier's father, Jeff, had pre­viously told The Associated Press that his son did not have any diagnosed health problems before his death besides past injuries to his knees. Heached at his Springfield, Ohio, home on Tuesday evening, Jeff Collier said he's disappointed that the state released its conclusions without first notifying him of the findings. 
''I'm telling you I don't know anything about this," Collier said. 
The 7 -foot Collier, who played at Georgia Tech, was with the Hawks for two years after spending three years with the I Iouston Hoekets. IIe died after 
due to 
Collier's size. But he said the player's heart "was above the accepted limits, even for a man of his size." 
He said the organ was about one and a half times the size it should have been. 
"We have the unfortunate advantage of taking the heart out and weighing it," Sperry said. 
Sperry also said that the elec­trical abnormalities could have been a reason for further test­ing. 
"If it were me, I would have wanted more studies done to clarify what those abnormali­ties meant in light of the fact Jason was an athlete," he said. 
The autopsy was conducted by the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, which performs all Forsyth County autopsies, Wednesday night against the GBI spokesman John Bankhead Golden State Warriors. said. The players are wearing 

The Hawks left Atlanta on black shoulder patches on their Tuesday for Oakland, where uniforms to honor Collier, who they open their season was a part-time starter. 
He began his college career at Indiana before transferring to Georgia Tech. 
The Hawks will leave Collier's uniform in his loeker through the season. 

PLeasejoLvc. I,{$ for avc. Lvc.forVlA..attve -pres.evc.tat[ovc. btj a techvc.oLogtJ avc.cl waLL street ex-pert 
Innovation --Challenges and Opportunities Industry Trends--Current and Future Aggressive Acquisition and Consolidation 
--Impact on the Software Industry and on Oracle 
Personal Views on Leadership 
Mendoza College of Business University of Notre Dame 
Wednesday, November 2, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NBA 


Milwaukee edges Philadelphia 117-108 in OT 
New Orleans thumps visiting Sacramento 
Associated Press 
I'IIII.ADEI.I'IIIA-Michael Hmld thought for sun~ his tying ;{-pointer would clang oiT the bark of tho rim. 
lnstnad, tho ball went through, r.appml a scrappy r.omnbaek and propollod Milwaukon to a fan­tastk start to tlw s1mson. 
Hedd hit the ganw-tying 3­pointer in n~gulation and scored :m points to Inad tho B ueks to an ovnrtinw win over tho Philadelphia 76ers on Tuesday night in the s1mson opennr. 
"That's a shot that all NBA playnrs love to have. that last sneond shot," Hndd said. 
And thn Bucks lovod that he took it. llndd's :{-pointnr with 1.6 soeonds lol't Lind tho ganu~ at I 02-all, brought the Bueks baek from sovnn points down with thrne minutns loft and !wiped make Torry Stotts a winner in his Milwaukoo eoaehing dnbut. 
"For a young loam, a team that's eoming togt~tlwr, to get the first ono on the road is a good sign," Stotts said. 
T..J. Ford scomd 16 points, 14 assists, and nine mbounds in his first gamo af'tor eervir.al spine surgery eost him all of last sea­son. Andrew Bogut, the NBA's No. I draft piek who was college player of tho year at Utah last season, started for the Bucks and added 13 points and nine rebounds. 
Allnn lvnrson scornd 35 points and had nino assists, and Chris Webbor added 32 points and grabbod 14 rebounds for the Sixors. 
Tho loss spoiled the return of Maurice Cheeks in his Philadelphia coaching debut. One of tho most popular players in f'ranehiso history, Cheeks has a retired No. 10 jersey and a 19H3 championship banner hanging in the raftors. 
Now, ho has his first loss as eoaeh. 
"All the emotion is gone now," Cheeks said. "This was not the way I wanted got the season started." 
The Bucks totally took over in overtime, seoring all but six points. Hedd hit a pair of jumpers and Bogut was a force inside, converting a three-point play for a 113-104 lead. 
Stotts plaeed modest expecta­tions on Bogut. 
"lie doesn't have to be our oll'!msive force," Stotts said. "We don't need him to feel like he has to seoro evnry time he touches the ball." 
New Orleans 93 Sacramento 67 
OKLAHOMA CITY -They're still ollkially the team from New Orleans, but judging by the roaring capacity crowd and the startling success of their Oklahoma City debut Tuesday, the Hornets should happy to wear those "OKC" patches for a while. 
.J.H. Smith scored 19 points and had two electrifying dunks as New Orleans beat the Sacramento Kings on the NBA's opening night, which also marked the first of 35 Hornets home games in Oklahoma City. 
The celebration began with a street party outside the Ford Center, then got even more lively inside the sold-out arena as the llornets, 18-64 last season, beat a Kings team expected to con­tend. 


P.J. Brown seored eight points during a 16-2 run midway through the second quarter that gave the Hornets a 3H-27 lead. Smith's two-handed fast-break dunk was the highlight of the run for New Orleans, which wore whiie jerseys with a hexagonal "OKC" patch on the right shoulder. 
Brown linished with 20 points and 10 rebounds, Speedy Claxton added 17 and Chris Paul, the team's No. 1 pick in this year's draft, added 13. 
Peja Stojakovie scored 1 H and Shareef Abdur-Hahim added 14 for the Kings, who shot only 
31.3 percent. 
New Orleans, which was the lowest scoring team in the league last season, built their lead to 20 points in the second quarter as Smith again ener­gized the crowd. 
He had seven points during a 12-0 run that put the Hornets up 5H-3H. 
The Hornets were searching for a place to play this season after Hurricane Katrina devas­tated New Orleans. The other six home games will be played in Baton Houge, La. 
A street party before the game offered fans the chance to take part in interactive gal]l.es, get their face painted in Hornets colors and listen to live bands. New Orleans then got a standing ovation when players ran onto the court for pre-game warmups to the announcement "Here come your Hornets!" 
Desmond Mason, a former Oklahoma State star, and Paul got the loudest ovations during introductions, and fans didn't sit down until Brown scored inside for the Hornets' lirst basket. 




GREAT LIFESTYLE 
Turtle Creek Aartments 

Adjacent to Campus I 
Remodeled Apartments Available 

www.campuscribs.net 
1.866.395.4201 

1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 


CLOSEST TO CAMPUS 

San Antonio 102, Denver 91 
SAN ANTONIO -The San Antonio Spurs celebrated last season's success and started their title defense. 
Tony Parker scored 14 of his 26 points in the fourth quarter and newcomer Michael Finley added 11 points in the period for the Spurs, who defeated Denver in the opening game for both teams Tuesday night. 
Before the game, San Antonio unveiled its third championship banner in the rafters of the SBC Center, and NBA commissioner David Stern was on hand for the team's returning players to receive their diamond-studded title rings. 
San Antonio trailed most of' the second half until Finley hit a 19-footer to put the Spurs up 79-78 with about nine minutes remaining in the game. 
Finley, who finished with 16 points, then hit another jumper followed by a 3-pointer. 
The Spurs went 13-for-16 from the field in the fourth quarter. 
Tim Duncan had 19 points and 10 rebounds for the Spurs and Manu Ginobili added I 0 points. 
Carmelo Anthony led Denver with 23 points, while Kenyon Martin added 19. Eduardo Najera scored 14 and Earl Boykins 13. 
The Nuggets, who were nlimi­nated in five games by the Spurs last spring in the first round of the playo{J's, were without head coach George Karl. 
He is serving a two-game sus­pension for making improper contact with a prospoet ovor the summer. Assistant coaeh Seott Brooks took Karl's place on the Denver bench. 
And for most of the game, tlwy were also without key resorve Nene, who left in thn lirst quar­ter with a lng injury. 
Duncan, who scored eight straight points midway through the first period, stole tho ball from Nene under the Nuggets' basket and then made a layup at the other end to give San Antonio its first lead at 20-19. 
Nene hobbled ofT the l'loor after the play with what the team described as a sprained right anterior cruciate liganwnt. lie did not return. 
Dallas 111, Phoenix 108, 20T 
PHOENIX -Dirk Nowitzki seored 28 points and grabbnd 15 rebounds and the Dallas Mavericks erased a 17-point fourth-quarter deficit to boat the Phoenix Suns in double-over­time. 
The late-starting season-open­er Tuesday night end 1~d just aftnr midnight. local timo. 
Nowitzki sank a pair of long jumpers and Keith Van Horn made a 3-pointor in tlw soeond overtime. After Van llorn madn one of two frno throws with 2:~. 7 seconds to play, Steve Nash missed what would have been a game-tying 3-pointer at tho final buzzer. 
Nowitzki had 2H points and 15 rebounds and Jason Terry addnd 23 points for Dallas, ineluding tho game-tying layup at the end of the first overtime. Josh Howard added 16 points and 11 rebounds. Van llorn scored 15 and Marquis Daniels 13. 
Nash scornd 30, the same he average against his former Dallas tnam in last season's Western Confernnee semifinals. lie added nino assists and eight rebounds, but had six turnovers. 
Haja Bell had 1 H points in his first gamn for the Suns. Shawn Marion had 13 points and 16 rebounds, but was just 4-for-12 shooting overall. 
Dallas trailed H3-Ml with 7 1/2 minutns to play in rngulation and 10I-W1 with ;{(, soeonds loll in the first overtime. 
Nowitzki sank throo 3-pointors in a row in a 21-3 outburst that forend ovnrtinw, then Marquis Daninls sank a 3-pointor with 29 seconds to go in the first over­time, setting up Jason Terry's layup at tho buzzer that tied it at 101-101 to l'oreo tho soeond OT. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, November 2, 2005 

FOOTBALL NOTEBOOK 
Penalites on the line area of focus for Irish 

By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Notre Dame wasn't all smiles in the bye week following a 49-23 win over BYU on Oct. 22. 
Notre Dame coaches spent chunks of practice time last week addressing the amount of penal­ties along the offensive and defensive lines of scrimmage. 
"One of the things I was disap­pointed in [was! we had some line of scrimmage penalties in previous games, and in practice we continued to have some line of scrimmage penalties," Weis said. 
The Irish committed six line of scrimmage penalties against BYU on Oct. 22 -three false starts, two offsides penalties, one illegal procedure. 
Weis said he and his coaches intentionally changed snap counts to test the discipline and patience of the linemen during the bye week. And what hap­pened when somebody jumped? 
"They were penalized appro­priately," Weis said. 
Coaches also spent the team's second bye week of the season doing much of what was expect­ed -resting injured players, bringing along backups and recruiting. 
Vols '0' no different 
With the resignation of Tennessee offensive coordinator Randy Sanders, the Volunteers will begin to split play-calling duties between multiple coaches Saturday. 
But Weis darified Tuesday that Tennessee's changing of the guard on offense does not mean it will be gunning from a com­pletely different playbook. 
"There will be no difference ... who's calling the plays," he said. "It's just like if I turn the play calling over to somebody else, it would be the same list of plays. It's just ... the order in which you call them. 
"It's not going to change. Game planning is game planning. It's just how you call the plays on game day, that's all. We won't know that 'till after we have played a game." 
Full house 
Pep rallies for the remaining three Irish home games will require tickets for non-Notre Dame student fans who wish to attend, the Notre Dame athletic office announced Tuesday. 
For Friday night pep rallies that precede games against Tennessee (Saturday), Navy (Nov. 
11) and Syracuse (Nov. 18), mem­bers of the public will be required to wait in line at 3 p.m. on the day of the rally to pick up tickets at Gate 10 of the Joyce Center. 
There will be a limit of two tickets per person, and the tickets will be free. The athletic office said ticket lines will not be per­mitted prior to 2 p.m. 
Notre Dame students do not need tickets to attend and can enter the Joyce Center beginning at 5:15 p.m. at Gate 11 each Friday. Doors are open to mem­bers of the general public who have tickets at 5:45 p.m. 
The athletic office cited "demand from Notre Dame stu­dents and University needs" as reasoning for the decision, which becomes the next in a series of attempts to address or accommo­date fanfare surrounding the 2005 Irish. 
Thousands of fans were turned away from the. Joyce Center for the Michigan State pep rally, the season's first, and the University reacted by moving the Southern California pep rally to the Stadium for the night of Oct. 14. 
Weis' biggest test yet 
A reporter asked Weis Tuesday if it's true the coach scored a 1600 on his SAT. 
"That's a misnomer," Weis said. "Let's look at it this way. If I said 'yes,' I'm either smart or a liar, okay? If I said 'no,' what do I gain from saying that? Let's leave it ambiguous." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

NFL 
Billick concedes division 
Despite Ravens' slow start, coach still eyes wild card opportunity 
Associated Press 

OWINGS MILLS, Md. -The Baltimore Havens put forth a marvelous performance against the Pittsburgh Steelers, backing a fine effort by a depleted defense with an attack that seored more points than in any game this season. 
And still the Havens lost. 
Now what? 

Coach Brian Billick conced­ed Tuesday that Baltimore (2­
5) has virtually no chance to win the AFC North, but expressed hope his team eould derive enough positives from Monday night's 20-19 defeat to mount a charge at a wild­card berth. 
"We're going to have to get on a heck of a run. We're cog­nizant of that,'' Billick said. "But until someone tells us that mathematically isn't going to happen, that's the hook you have to hold on to. That's where you generate your enthusiasm. Why give up on that hope'?" 
I!' the Ravens played earlier this season as they did against Pittsburgh, then reaching the playoffs wouldn't be nearly as imposing a task. Operating without injured starters Hay Lewis, Ed Reed and Anthony Weaver, the Baltimore defense forced two turnovers and held the Steelers to 261 yards. 
The offense was efficient, too. The Havens were averag­ing an NFL-worst 11.5 points per game before breaking loose for five scoring drives, 20 first downs and 25 pass completions. Although Baltimore could have used another touchdown or two instead of getting four field goals from Matt Stover, Dave Zastudil punted only twice. 
"There are some things we can definitely build on," Billick said. "We matched our passion and intensity with a certain level of execution that maybe we haven't put together com­pared to the other gamns we lost." 
The Havens didn't expect to lose to Tennessee, Detroit and Chicago, but they did. That's why they were a heavy under­dog against a Pittsburgh team seeking its 11th straight home victory Monday night. 
The Steelers extended their streak with a late field goal, but the Havens had nothing to be embarrassed about. 
"It was painful last night, but there was a sense of accomplishment to the degren that they stepped up to the challenge," Billick said. "You don't give that a lot of cre­dence in pro football because at the end of the day it doesn't add up to much. But I think they felt good about them­selves -within that context. And they should." 
In other words, a moral vic­tory doesn't mean a thing in the standings, but could go a long way toward fueling the Havens with the confidence they need for the rest of the season, beginning with Sunday's home game against the division-leading Cincinnati Bengals (6-2). 
Billick gave the players Tuesday and Wednesday off. 
hoping a 48-hour break will enable them to regroup emo­tionally and physically from Monday's disappointing loss. If the Havens are to win, they can't afford any drop-off in the hungnr they took with them to Pittsburgh. 
"That's why they have the extra time. We have a big game coming back here at home against a division rival. There's a challenge there," Billick said. "llopefully, we can hold onto (the emotion) and not be worn out from the week before, nor wear ourselves out this week, because we're going to have to have the same level of passion and intensity for Cincinnati." 
Tho Havens may have a few more players, too. Billick said there's a chance that Weaver (toe), receiver Mark Clayton (ankle) and fullback Ovie Mughnlli (ankle) could return Sunday. 
But Lewis (thigh) is out for at least two more weeks, and Heed (ankle) and quarterback Kyle Boller (toe) almost cer­tainly won't play. 
Tho Havens hoped Boller would be healthy enough to reclaim his starting job from Anthony Wright this week, but lw felt soreness in his right toe after a week's worth of prac­tice and is not yet ready to run the offense. 
"The time frame we were hoping for just isn't happening right now," Billick said. 
Wright went 25-for-44 for 252 yards against the Steelers. Since taking over for Boller in the first game of the season, he has thrown for six touch­downs and been intercepted nine times. 

NOTRE DAME'S DEPARTMENT Of FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 

E 
•.....·
I 
N 
r 

Tuesdoy, November 8 through Sundoy, November 20 
Philbin Studio Thedtre 
$8 oil students For tlclle1s, coli the DPAC Ticket Office 
Of 631~2800 
or visit http:// pertormlngorts.nd.edu 
_j 

F 0 R 
NG 
WAR D 





~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
Wednesday, November 2, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
End 
continued from page 24 
tlw ehang11s at settnr. 
"Wn playnd well as a team," shn said. "We wore vocal and unified ... It would have been easy for us to usn the adversity as an excuse, but tho team did­n't. They gave everything they had." 
Tlw loss was Saint Mary's third to Alma this 

Every match, it seems like a new player sparks the Irish team. Heintzman, who didn't play too mueh prior to the Conneeticut match several weeks ago, eredited her team's success to, simply put, her team. 
"It really is a fun and exeiting atmosphere that this whole team has ereated," she said. "We're just enjoying every minute of playing -everybody is. Itjust makes it even better." 
Team chemistry and eonfi­dence are building, and the unselfish teammates have aecepted their roles for eaeh mateh. 
"We're all just so confident in each other," Heintzman said. "We'll look at each other on the eourt and just never doubt our eapabilities." 
Heintzman was one of several surging players to spark the Irish over the weekend. While she aceepts whatever role she's given for the remainder of the season, she said, obviously, she has enjoyed playing, and play­ing well. 
"It's always exciting to get out on the eourt, especially in sueh high-emotion games," she said. 
St. Louis, a member of the Atlantie-1 0 Conference, is led by eoaeh Anne Kordes. The Billikens are in their lirst sea­son in the A-1 0 Conferenee. 
They beat IPFW in their last match 3-1 as senior All-Ameriean Aida Antanavieiute re~-,risternd a double-double with 22 kills and 14 digs. Senior libero Erin McClanahan had a eareer-high 29 digs against IPFW. The Billikens have played well throughout the season but have been hampered by recent injuries to some key players. The Billikens have also played a challenging non-conference schedule·. They have already faced tough squads ineluding Kansas State, Kansas, Pacitie and Purdue. 
Cleary, the conferenen match­es are important for the Irish. They are loading the Big East and trying to repeat as regular season ehamps. 
But from here on out, every mateh -even non-eonferenee 
-is equally important as the Irish are vying for a top send in the NCAA tournamnnt whieh begins in early Decembnr. 
"It was aetually brought up today," Heintzman said. "It's always in the baek of our minds. It would be a great accomplishment to got a great sPed, and it would hPip us out. But it's not going to make things any easier. We're still going to have to play tough teams." 
What will make things easier are more team efTorts like thn two the Irish gave last week­end. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 
season, all in throe "Tonight, everyone ing fourth or high­ganws. M. The Belles fell
gave everything 

The Bnllns knnw one place short. 
from prnvious they had, they fed Schroeder-Hick 
nwntings that they offeach other and doomed the season would havn to eom­a success, especial­
played the best 

hat a pownrful ly considering Saint 
they've played all

Alma ol'f'nnse with Mary's did not have solid, scrappy season. any setting experi­defense, and they ence on its roster did just that. Anne 
Julie Schroeder-Biek entering the year. 

Cusack, tho MIAA "We were defi-
Belles coach 

lcadnr in digs per nitely down in the 
gamn, recorded 22 digs Tunsday. Kania Hellmann also added 15 digs to solidify thn dnfensn. 
Sehroednr-Bick was thrilled to see hnr tnam's intnnsity at its highnst lnvnl of the season. 
"That's the most everyone on the court has competed all sea­son," she said. "Earlier it was four or livn players that brought intensity and really played to win. Tonight, everyone gave everything they had, they fed ofT each other and played the best they've played all season." 
Tho Belles linished the season with an 11-19 record, 5-12 in the MIAA. Saint Mary's nnarly doubled its win total of six from last season and linishnd tied for f'il'th in the conference, two places higher than last season. 
Entering the season, Schroeder-Biek set a goal for her team to host an MIAA play­
off game by finish­

By TOM DORWART Spons Wrircr 
They've epitomized and, per­haps, defined the word "team." 
They hope to eontinue their suecesses tonight at 7 p.m. against St. Louis at the Joyee Center. 
After two big, emotional wins on the weekend, the No. 5 Irish {20-1, 10-0 Big East) take on the Billikens {13-12) tonight in a mid-week non-eonference tilt. Staying level-headed after sueh an emotional high might be the biggest test for Notre Dame, but it knows it cannot take any opponent lightly and eannot play flat-footed. 
"1St. Louis isl definitely anoth­er team we need to respeet," sophomore outside hitter Ellen Heintzman said. "At praetiee today, we spent a lot of time scouting and talking about how, even though we did have two big wins this weekend, they were just two more wins. 
"St. Louis is just as big a team as these past two." 
After two complete team efforts in weekend victories over then-No. 6 Louisville and Cineinnati, the Irish are hoping to continue a 13-match winning streak. 
Notre Dame has not lost sinee playing LSU in September, and the Irish have been recognized for their play. With their new No. 5 ranking, the Irish are now the highest ranked team in school-history. The teams ahead of Notre Dame inelude Nebraska and Washington, who are both undefeated. 

setter position coming in, but we had so much talent we thought we could host for MIAA," she said. "Even though we fell one place short, I'm proud of how we linished up. We need to carry this momentum into next season." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 


Adrian defenders prepare to block a Belles spike on Oct. 11. Alma beat Saint Mary's Tuesday In three sets In the playoffs. 
NO VOLLEYBALL 



Irish set for the Billikens 
Saint Louis c01nes to the Joyce Center to face No. _5 Notre Dame 

Stephen
Carolyn Wo 
Silliman 
Dean, Business School 

College of Engineering 


~itflt 
' 
MEN'S GOLF 
Team disqualified for ball rules technicality 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associare Sporrs Ediror 
Cole Isban and Seott Gustafson inadvertently played the wrong ball on the first hole Monday and were forced to disqualify them­selves from the CordeValle Collegiate. 
Notre Dame was unable to plaee in tho tournament beeausn five golfers arc neednd to eom­plete in the round for a team score to count. 
The remaining three players ­Mark Baldwin, Mike King, and Eddie Peckels -linishnd out the tournament playing for their individual seores. 
Through two rounds, Pockets was at even par aftnr shooting a 144 (74-70). King was two-over par at 146 (68-78) and Baldwin was nine-over par at 153 {78­75). 
Irish coach Jim Kubinski was not available for comment Tunsday night dun to Notre Dame's late arrival in South B1md from Calili>rnia. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgiffi6@nd.edu 
Ed Sullivan 

~Hk 
Attorney at Law 



Living the Faith 9 to 5 
Get tapped in at Legends Doors Open at 9:30pm, Speaker starts -1O:OOpm Free soft-drinks and food, cash bar 
Can't make It? More to come on 11/9 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, November 2, 2005 
first-half woes after missing several golden opportunities.


Finale 
Lauren Hinton skied a ball 

continued from page 24 high over the Kalamazoo net, and sophomore forward Cat MacMillan pushed a shot wide, 
pass was timed to perfection, but the Belles were confident and Fron was able to knock they would eventually get it the ball in without breaking together. stride, giving the Belles the 1-"We created really good 0 lead. chances for ourselves, but we 
Lauren Hinton couldn't finish engineered the "We created really early in the Belles' second good chances for game," Mackenzie goal on a quick said. "We really
ourselves, but we 

pass through the controlled 85 per­
six-yard box to couldn't finish early cent of the game." 
Thomson near the in the game. We Seniors Shannon 
low post. Culbertson, Carrie
really controlled 85 
Thomson was Orr and Maura able to tap the percent of , the Schoen played ball in with her game. solid in the back left foot, a goal and at midfield to Mackenzie end their colle­
Caryn Mackenzie 

described as "off­giate careers on speed," to pad the Belles coach top with a win. Saint Mary's Ashley Hinton con­advantage. tributed on the defensive side "They suddenly stepped it of the ball as well to keep the 
• up," Mackenzie said of her two Hornets from mounting a freshmen. "It was really a strong offensive threat and great overall team effort." was helped out by strong play 
The Belles suffered some from goaltender Laura Heline and defender Justine Higgins. 
The win gives the Belles 31 points in MIAA play, well out of reach of the fourth-place Hornets, who trail by seven points with only one game left to play. 
"It's a great step for our pro­gram to take that next step up," Mackenzie said. "We've been hanging around the mid­dle of the pack for awhile. I hope it gives our women the motivation to work harder in the off season, and hopefully it will make our program more attractive to some players coming in." 
The Belles are already look­ing to improve on their for­tunes for the 2006 campaign and someday hope to chal­lenge for the coveted MIAA title. 
"We have a pretty big task in hand in replacing our three seniors, who have been rock solid in the back all year," Mackenzie said. 
"We'll have to build for what coaching staff, this is our sec­next year as well." players are returning and ond year, and I think the conti­what players I'm trying to nuity that the staff can bring Contact Kyle Cassity at bring in for next year. As a to the program will help us out kcassily@nd.edu 


All-America senior Megan Duffy dribbles around an Indianapolis defender Tuesday during Notre Dame's victory over the Greyhounds. Duffy scored 18 points and had seven assists. 

Open 
continued from page 24 
The Indianapolis spurt was led by the hot shooting of junior point guard Mandy Geryak. Geryak scored 14 in the first half and finished the game with 23 points and five assists. Her layup with 9:54 remaining gave the Greyhounds their first lead of the game at 24-22. 
"I thought the player of the game was [Geryak]," McGraw said. "I thought she played real­ly well." 
Notre Dame bounced back, though, and began to pull away from Indianapolis with a 22-7 run to close out the first half. 
Sophomore guard Amanda Tsipis entered the game with 
4:10 left in the period and pro­vided an immediate boost for the Irish. Tsipis had two points, two rebounds, an assist and a steal in the four minutes before intermission to help Notre Dame regain control of the game. 
McGraw was thrilled with what she saw out of the reserve guard, who finished the game with four points and three rebounds. 
"[She was] a great spark," McGraw said of Tsipis. "She's really worked on her shot all summer. And that's one thing that she feels that is a good role for her, because we don't have a lot of three-point shooters on the team. 
"I was really pleased with the way she came off the bench." 
The first half ended when Duffy found Courtney LaVere inside, and the senior forward hit a turnaround in the paint as time expired. Notre Dame took a 44-31lead into the locker room. 
In the second half, 
Indianapolis was unable to make up any ground. Freshman Chandrica Smith scored six points for the Irish in the second period, while sophomore guard Charel Allen -slowed by a recovering knee -added seven points of her own after the break. 
Despite the victory, McGraw came away from the game con­cerned about certain aspects of the team's play. 
"We don't rebound, and we need to be better defensively," McGraw said. "We've got to really address that. We don't have anyone on the team we can really count on to rebound." 
Notre Dame will look to improve in these areas in its next exhibition game against Ferris State on Nov. 10 at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 
season with lower leg and ankle Anderson fumbled out of the "I think no one wants to turn injuries. Coupled with end zone with 5:08 remaining, the ball over going into the end Tennessee's low points per game giving Alabama the ball back for zone two weeks in a row. I average (16.1), such news and the eventual game-winning field mean, that's just almost a fluke statistics could have a team like goal. . ... There's a difference between Notre Dame licking its chops. Weis refuses to believe that and being inconsistent. 
Still, while the Irish average Tennessee deserves to be 3-4. When you go out and lose by 30, 152 rush yards per game, the When a reporter asked why it's different than when you lose Volunteers have not surren­Weis classified Notre Dame's on one critical play." dered 100 yards rushing to a previous 6-6 season as inconsis­single back this season. Their tent, but not Tennessee's cur­Contact Pat Leonard at defense only surrenders 16.0 rent season as so, Weis made pleonard@nd.edu points per game. his distinction clear. 
And the Volunteers' last two "Sometimes inconsistency can 
r------------------,
losses have gone down to the be different. I thought we were 
: VERA BRADLEY :
wire. Last Saturday, South inconsistent, that's why I Carolina kicked a 49-yard field thought we were 6-6 [last sea­i f WI• 6ftwidl NDJSMCSIII.LD. I 1 goal with less than three min­son]," he said. "I think they're 3­
: ClpJL&~ :
utes remaining to best 4 because they've been unfortu­
I FAR Bank Empc.rilllu ~~ I
Tennessee. And the week nate in critical situations. I don't 
1 u IS. :Silo! A"L,(,.,.vu.m I 
before, Tennessee fullback Cory think that's inconsistent. 
L--~---------------J 



Trap 
continued from page 24 
gling but also multi-faceted. 
Like last season -when quarterbacks Brent Shaeffer and Erik Ainge were splitting snaps leading up to Notre Dame's visit -Ainge and Rick Clausen have shared duties under center this season. 
Clausen has completed 59.4 percent of his passes and aver­ages 158.1 yards per game. He has thrown three touchdowns to four interceptions in seven game appearances. Ainge has been even less successful with two touchdowns, four intercep­tions and a 64.6 passing yards average in five game appear­ances. 
But Weis said not having a left-handed quarterback in practice has made the game preparation slightly less than ideal. 
"Well, with not having a lefty quarterback in practice, that is a little bit of a problem because obviously there's plays designed for a righty quarterback and lefty quarterback that are differ­ent than just your regular drop­back passes," the coach said. 
Gerald Riggs, Jr., Tennessee's starting running back to begin the season and its primary offensive weapon, is out for the 


Men's Soccer 
# 5Irish Vollevball
Big East Tournev First Round 
vs. Saint louis
Notre Dame vs. svracuse 
Wednesdav, November 2, 1:00 PM Wednesdav, November 2, 7:00 PM Alumni Field Drink Coasters to First500 Fans FREE Admission to first100 sponsored bV Marathon NO, SMC and HC Students 


FREE Admission to all NO, SMC and HC Students 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
Wednesday, November 2, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ERIK POWERS & ALEC WHITE
JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CJ.eNILEMEN, --n--\ IC:, IS foSSIt'> L-'\ \t-Ho... 'B€:~1 

CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  32 TV's Arthur  60 Compound with  
1 Ump's call  35 20-, 25-, 45­ a hydroxyl group  
5 Like some committees  and 50-Across, in a way  61 It's typically thrown eight feet  
1oWhite-bearded  39 Suffix with  62 Dodge  
type 14 Rectangular cereal  cannon 40 Bowling green, e.g.  63 Like a Playboy Playmate  
15 Papal topper 16 Run perfectly 17 Eastern nurse 18 Overthrow, say 19 Prelude to a solution 20 Marinated dish  41 "Maria (1940'shit) 42 They form bonds 44 Unjust accusation 45 Flower-arranging art  DOWN 1 "Scram!" 2 Sighed words 3 Cold feet, so to speak 4 Prime bit of trial evidence  
22 Gainsays  48 Shia, e.g.  5 Drill directive  
24 Eleanor's follower as first  49 Some back­and-forth, briefly  6 Daggers  
lady  50 Variety of pinball  7 Mala_ (spy)  
25 Sing-along, of sorts 26 Group in power 29 Alpaca's relative  54 Stadium section 55 Baker of song 57_ Cooper (popular car)  B_y Plata (Montana's motto) 9 Spice in Indian cuisine  
30 Banded stone  58 Flock members  10  column  31 2003 Afghani  36 Stretch out  47 All fired up  
31 "Yikes!" 59 Clan symbol ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  11 Part of a TV transmission 12 Rosetta Stone language 13 Demagnetize, maybe 21 Aden's land 23 Palindromic  film that won a Golden Globe for Best Foreign Language Film 32 Uncle Remus title 33 European erupter 34 P.D.Q.  37 Source of some brandy 38 Yesteryear 42 Best qualified 43 Eastern "way" 44 Turned into 45 Putzed around 46 Plains Indian  48 Too full 50 Gyro holder 51 Shortest iron, in golf 52 James Polk 53 Like olives or peanuts 56 Nail. Adoption Mo.  

preposition 
25 "Funny Girl" For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with adirector Garson credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 26 Big Indian crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 27 "Omigosh!" Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
28 Be slack-jawed 

Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 29 Tobacco units solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
JJ~Wf1JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
YANON 
I I I 

©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
i~J~1--t j 

BORCAN WHAT THE: FIRE:ME:N E:NDE:O UP WITH 

rJ 
www.jumble.com 

WHE:N THEY WON THE: l-OTTE:RY.
t 1 t
STRUME 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I J I J I 

suggested by the above car­
Ans~er:[ I I I XJTO'l I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday' Jumbles: UNCAP BAKED EYEFUL DISMAY s Answer: When the "smart" girl went bowling with her 
date, she--PLAYED "DUMB" 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS llAY: LaTavia Roberson, 24; Aishwarya Rai, 32; Jenny McCarthy, 33; Lyle Lovett, 48 
Happy Birthday: You may tacc some obstacles, bul don'l usc them as an excuse to slow down or discard any project you have slated for completion this year. Stay on top of whatever it is that you want to m:complish, and don't be afraid to delegate smaller jobs. You have to be the leader. Your numbers arc 5, 9, 26, 33, 38,47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your financial situation will change swiflly, so keep a close eye on what's happening with any money venture that you may be involved with. Your goals can be reached today if you state exactly what you need. ••• TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will lind yourself in a diflicult situation if you lose control today. Anger will not help matters. He patient and work with others instead of going against the grain. • • • GEMINI (May 21-.lune 20): You can expect everything to spin out of control. Changes regarding a money matter will not pan out. Reassure someone you arc close to that you will follow through with your promise. ••• CANCER (.June 21-July 22): You have everything under control whether you realize it or not. Stop being so paranoid and start enjoying the fruits of your labor. A new opportunity is on the horizon, and if you respond quickly, you will profit. 
***** 

LEO (July 23-Au~.. 22): Let go--at least for today--of the trials and tribulations that are bogging you down. You will only waste your time if you try lo sort these matters out. Nothing can be resolved professionally, but personally you can make wise changes. •• VIRGO (Aug.. 23-Sept.. 22): Get out of the house and away trmn the pressure being pushed your way. Spend time with people who think the same way you do. The more you discuss your future plans, the greater your chance to limn a unique partnership. •• •• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Money will be on your mind, and if that means you have to take a short trip to get the ball rolling or to form an alliance, get moving. Get everything in writing. • • • SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will grab the attention of someone who knows the ins and outs of what you are trying to accomplish. A chance to make some decent money is apparent. A conservative approach will get you the support you need. ••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov.. 22-Dec.. 21): Stick to what you know. Ifyou try to fake your way through something, you will end up being talked about behind your back. A change in your personal life may leave you feeling insecure. ••• CAI'RICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.. 19): The more you do fi1r others, the more you will get in return. A change in direction will be more fascinating than you expect. Don't do anything halfway. •••• AQUARIUS (Jan.. 20-Feb.. 18): Don't do so much for others that il causes you to lose sight of your own responsibilities. A problem can develop if you haven't done your fair share. Don't waste time waiting for others. •• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Just when you think you are ahead of the game. someone will burst your bubble. Keep everyone guessing and you stand a much better chance in the end. No promises made will leave you in the clear. ••••• 
Birthday Baby: You are always willing to jump in and try something new, but you will not jeopardize what you already have. You are unpredictable, adventurous and very much in control. You have stamina and fight for what you want. 
EugeniaS Web ,\'iles: astroadvice.comjOrfim, eugeniala.f/.comfor conjidelllial con\·ultatiom· 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
... D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address _____________________ City ________ State _____ Zip______ 
r 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, November 2, 2005 
page 24 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Gone Greyhounds 
Irish cruise in first exhibition game as Duffy leads with 18 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 
Despite some early first-half struggles, the Notre Dame women's basketball team start­ed the preseason ofl' on the right foot Tuesday with an 84-59 exhibition win over the University of Indianapolis at the Joyce Center. 
Senior captain Megan Duffy led the way for the Irish, scoring 18 points and dishing out seven assists while turning the ball over just once in 32 minutes. Duffy connected on four of her eight attempts from three-point range in the game. 
Center Melissa D'Amico added 16 points and seven rebounds for Notre Dame, while freshman guard Lindsay Schrader record­ed 13 points and seven rebounds in her collegiate debut. 
The Irish started the game off strong, jumping out to a 13-3 advantage. Five minutes into the game, though, Indianapolis switched from man-to-man to a zone defense. Notre Dame struggled to score and the Greyhounds capitalized, going on a 21-9 run. 
"We were unprepared for the zone," Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw said. 'That was our biggest problem. They played all man-to-man last year." 
see OPEN/page 22 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Alba sweeps team in MIAA quarterfinals 
Season ends with a hard-fought playoff loss to talented Scots 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Writer 
If the goal of a team is to play its best at the end of the sea­son, the Saint Mary's volleyball team achieved its season goal Tuesday. 
Despite losing 30-25, 30-25, 30-23 in a season-ending match in the MIAA quarterfi­nals to Alma, the Belles played with determination and heart, characteristics that marked the team's play all season. 
"It was the best we've played against Alma," Belles coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "Even their coach said that every one of our players played to win out there tonight." 
The Belles entered the match with Kristen Playko and Shelly Bender playing setter. Neither had set in a match this season, but an injury to regular setter Amanda David and a test con­flict for replacement Michelle Turley forced Playko and Bender into the position. Both Playko and Bender had been two of the Belles biggest hitters entering Tuesday's match, ranking first and third, respec­tively, in kills on the team. The two were forced to bear the burden of passing and hitting Tuesday and did so with sue­cess. 

"They were switching modes immediately," Schroeder-Biek said. "They really adjusted well." 
Playko notched 12 kills on a season-high .423 hitting per­centage and also added 15 assists. Bender recorded five kills and 11 assists. 
Schroeder.Biek was proud of her entire team for responding with energy and drive amidst 
see END/page 21 

SMC SoccER 
Belles get elusive tenth win 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
Ten wins-the magic num­ber that the Belles set as a goal weeks ago-was accom­plished on Tuesday with a 
resounding  2-0  defeat  of  
Kalamazoo  College  in  the  
unfriendly  confines  of  
Michigan.  

The record books are now being pulled from the shelves, and this 2005 edition of Saint Mary's soccer is being pen­ciled in as the greatest Belles soccer team in history. 
Prior to this season, the Belles had never reached 10 conference wins in the MIAA, and with those wins comes a guaranteed third-place finish in the conference standings, also a new Saint Mary's mark. 
"It's hard to put in words, I just feel good for them," Belles coach Caryn Mackenzie said. "I think the fact that they finished third in the confer­ence should work as a great springboard for next year." 
Two freshmen were the game-winning catalysts, as Whitney Fron and Mandy Thomson both scored in the second half to propel the Belles over the Hornets. 
Fron found the back of the net first on a long drop pass from the right side by mid­fielder Ashley Hinton. The 
see FINALE/page 22 

fOOTBALL 
Volunteers are setting no 'trap' for the Irish 
Weis vows team will not take troubled Tennessee lightly this weekend 

By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
The "trap" is to assume a 3-4 team is not as competitive as a 5-2 team. The "trap" is to expect a Notre Dame victory as automatic Saturday. 
But~ Notre Dame coach See Also Charlie Weis 
"Penalties"
made himself absolutely page20 clear at his Tuesday press conference ­there's no such thing as a "trap" against Tennessee . 
• 
'This is the scariest 3-4 team that you're ever going to go against, because they're capable of beating everybody every week," Weis said. "And they know it. Our guys know it, too." 
Tennessee's defense has given up only three passing touch­downs in seven games. Their four losses have come against teams with a combined record of 26-6. And that includes .a loss to undefeated Alabama (8-0), who scored just six points on the Volunteers in a 6-3 decision. 
"I know it's going to be a tough challenge, especially from the game we had with them last year it was down to the wire," Notre Dame running back Darius Walker said. "So it's probably going to be another one of those kinds of games." 

Notre Dame beat Tennessee, 17-13, last season. Weis said his plan this week is to hammer home to his players that the Volunteers have the talent, size and will to beat any team in the country. And how will he do it? 
"All you have to do is watch the tape," Weis said. That game tape will show a Volunteer offense that is strug­
see TRAP/page 22 


Nil VOllEYBAll 
MEN'S GOlF 
~BA 

MLB 
MlB 
NHl 

w 
u Saint Louis at 
Islanders 4 z Notre Dame, 7 p.m. 
Two Irish golfers 

An autopsy revealed 
Derek Jeter and 
Sens. McCain and 
Bruins 3 
played the wrong balls 

Hawks center Jason 
Vernon Wells won their 
Bunning introduced
::5 
The No. 5 Irish will 
and disqualified 

Collier died of a cardiac 
second consecutive 
new steroids legislation 
= 
The Isles topped host the Billikens tonight 
themselves in the 

abnormality caused by 
American League Gold 
in Congress yesterday 
Boston in the closing

cc 
in the Joyce Center. 
CordeValle Collegiate. 

an oversized heart. 
Glove yesterday. 
to standardize testing. 
seconds of overtime. 

!;: 
page 21

en page 21 page 18 page 17 page 17 page 16 
.. 








