

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Election organizers counter apathy 
tions that tho candidates will
Judicial Council hopes 
discuss," said Anderson. 
to increase turnout "After the debates, there will be an 'O.C.' wateh with ref'reshments." 
By KAREN LANGLEY Anderson said she hopos News Writer these moves will increase interest in student govern­
To help combat traditional mont campaign issues and student apathy toward cam­ultimately motivate students pus government elections, to vote in the upcoming elec­this year nlBction organizers tions. have initiated a Hock-the-Vote "If you walk through campaign-style effort to LaFortune while the debatn is increase voter turnout. taking place, you have to take 
The Judieial Council, which the opportunity to stop in and oversees the elections, will inform yourself. We hope that hold primary debates tho student body is willing to Thursday at 7 p.m. in hold their leaders responsi­
LaFortune, They will be pre­ble," said Anderson. coded by a "meet and greot" With the student govern­with tho candidates at 6:30 mont presidential primary p.m., said .Judicial Council election less than a week prnsident Brin Anderson. away, several students 
"We are trying to target tho expressnd little interest in tlw student body with puhlieity. student government olections. Students will be invited to get "My interest in the election involved with the debates, as they will provide the ques-see ELECTION/page 4 

THE 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group discusses College Park 
dents whoso apartments worn tives with a packet of infor­
Clash between ND 
damaged during tho winter mation describing the situa­students, managers break from broken water tion in grnatnr dntail and said pipes at the oll'-campus apart­he hoped a plan could beconsidered mont complex run by implemented to assist stu­Paramount Management. dents who might face similar 
Tho Observer reported Jan. problems in the future. 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
12 that eight units, housing Scott said students who arn News Wri1<·r 
23 Notre Damn students, currrmtly having problems 
wore snvernly damaged when with the management have 
Al'tor recent problems pipes burst above second­been able to usn their connec­hPtwePn College Park man­l'loor units. The Observer tions with student govern­agtHrwnt and Notro Dame stu­then rnportod .Jan. 21{ that in mont and their eoncerned dPnts living at tlw ofl'-campus the last month throe students, panmts to confront the man­apartmont !'omplex, the who worn without a place to agement at Paramount. Coun1:il of' Hopn~sentatives livn for a wonk and half aft1w "My f'oar is that a senior or nwt Monday to discuss tho classes rosumod in .January, junior in tho future will not issw• and possible solutions. dncidnd to pursun a lawsuit have dirnd access to COH, or 
SPnior elass president against Paramount. llarTPII Scott spok1~ for stu-Srott providod rnprnsonl.a-see COR/page 4 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Members debate 'Flex 10' plan 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Alleged assault reported atSMC 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Editor 
A Saint Mary's student was allegndly assaulted by a f'ormor boyfriend in her Ln Mans llall room Sunday night, Collnge olli­eials said Monday. 
Tho inddont. was not a sexual assault, but further details about. its natun~ aro being withheld fill' sneurity and privacy purposPs while Saint Mary's Seeurity inves­tigates, College spokesnwn Melanin Mel>onald said. 
McDonald would not mmnwnt 
see ASSAULT/page 4 


Students organize drive to remember freshman 
Keough, Stanford Halls sponsor organ donor sign­ups in merrwry of Dan Kish, who died last month 

By MADDIE HANNA Nt·w.,Wrircr 
Tlw Campus Lifo Couneil passnd a n~sol uti on urging Studnnt Affairs and Food Serviens to rnsnarch a "Flex I 0" nu~al plan option and dis­cussnd thn upcoming Board of Trustnos mooting and task forcn reports at Monday's mnnting. 
"This is to gnt tho dialoguo hotwnnn Food Serviens and Studont Affairs going," Sarah Batos. chair of tho Senate rnsidence life committee, said. 
Since tho resolution has already passed through Senate, the next step in the process, according to Batns, is to snnd it to Father Mark Poorman, Vice President of Student Affairs. lie would ultimatoly deeide on a eourso of action, and Batr.s said her committee would try to dis­cuss the plan with Poorman. 
./.T Arseniadis, co-chair of IJail Presidents Council, said many hall presidents wore concerned about passing a rnsolution designed to install a "Flex 10" option because the side ell'ects eould ineludo limitnd dining hall options. 
"This is just a beginning. The end is maybo two, thren years down thn road after the planning and the research," Arseniadis said, emphasizing the need for deliberate con­sideration of the potential problems caused by the added plan. 
In considering the argu­ments of' those opposed to "Flox 10," ehief' executive assistant Dave Baron said the proposed meal plan would not reduce the sense of com­munity. 
"I don't see a problem in fostering more people at LaFortune," Baron said, explaining he feels LaFortune provides just as much of a eommunity atmosphere as the dining halls. 
Siegfried senator James Loito supported Baron, not­ing students currently eat only 10 meals in the dining hall and while giving them a "Flex 10" option would 
see CLC/page 4 
''' 

By NICOLE ZOOK Assistant News Editor 
To honor tho memory of D<miol Kish, a Notrn Dame frnslunan who died Jan. 14 from heart surgery eomplieations, Keough and Stanford !Jails and the lroshman dass coundl arn sponsoring an organ donor sign-up drive from today until Friday. 
Kish, who received a hoart trans­plant while he was a student at Penn lligh Sehool in Mishawaka, was on tho waiting list lilr a new heart when ho died. 
Stanford section service commission­er James Boyle said Kish's death com­pdlod the drive's organizers to ad. 
"We got the idea to do it last year, <md then we really got motivated to got it done when we heard what happened to Daniel Kish," he said. "He really inspired us." 
Tho drive, which encourages stu­denl'i and thnir fiunily members to sign an org<m donation releaso card, b!~gins tonight during dinner at both dining halls. It will r.ontinue in thn dining halls during lunch Wednesday and in LaFortune from 4 p.m. to 7 on Wednesday and H p.m. to II on Thursday. 
The Thursday sih'll-up is aeeompa­nied by a showing of .John Q, a film ab!Jut a f'ather whoso insurance won't eover hi'i son's !wart transplant, in tJw Keough lounge. On Friday, !Wont organizers will have tablns set up in oaeh dorm in order to gnt as rnueh campus-widn student participation as 
possibh~. 
"(Organ donation isl something peo­pln don't think about, and wo roally 
see DONATION/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 1, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Tovvnies are people, too 
Some people are afraid of living away from home for the first time. They worry about doing their own laundry, getting stuck with an awful roommate, getting less than a 4.0 or turning into walking dynamos of duLae infractions. Kate Gales 
My greatest fear, however, was to live among the townies. Sports Writer 
Coming here in August 2003, I knew all about townies, thanks to the educational power of the Keenan Revue. My best friend's older brother, who is now a senior RA in Keenan, had a copy of the 2002 Revue. My first viewing of this tradi­tional production prominently featured an original song describing the many qualities of the townie. Thanks to the Hevue, I knew that townies are people who live in trailers, live and die by the glories of NA.SCAR and marry their cousins. They like to go hunting and hang around gas stations. Most townies are employed at Meijer or tattoo parlors and sell beer to underage Notre Dame stu­dents. 
Now, I know the Revue isn't always about the truth. From it, I heard that Zahm guys were gay (my dad lived in Zahm), Cavanaugh girls are easy (then I got my housing form -guess where I live) and Saint Mary's chicks are husband hunters (my mom is a proud Saint Mary's grad-okay, thi'> one could be true). I took all this information with a grain of salt. But I knew the Hevue would never lie about townies. 
With the same care I took purchasing textbooks and extra-long sheets, I pre­pared to de lend myself against the forth­coming townie onslaught in South Bend. I was fully prepared to stop, drop and roll far from these strangely-bred creatures. 
They say college is a learning experi­ence. I've picked up a little accounting here and also learned how to throw a n1ally fun pre-SYR party. But perhaps the most important thing I've come to know is that townies are people, too. They can even be your friends. 
Imagine my surprise when I actually made friends with two townies. They did­n't wear Dale Earnhardt gear! Their teeth were straight! They lived in houses and their parents had normal jobs. They had normal names like Megan and Kirsten. They were totally and completely normal. They were people. 
Townies are just like the other kids at Notre Dame, except you want to come visit them during the school year, not in the summertime. They have sweet perks -you can spend holidays with them, they usually have cars and know where the fun restaurants are. One campus fig­ure even pointed out that "all townie girls are hot." Now there's a compliment. 
Townies are people, too, with feelings and everything. Sometimes they get self­conscious about being from South Bend, like when Kirsten introduces herself as simply from Indiana or when Megan specifies that she's from Mishawaka. Townies -it's okay-you can't help where you're from. 
People spend a lot of time here talking about discrimination. We're all aware of prejudicial tensions -but the townie label has floated under the radar at this school, and that is never fair. Today, take the opportunity to tell a townie how much you appreciate them, hometown notwith­standing. South Bend? Fine by me. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
In rhe Jan. 31 issue, rhe subhead for rhe women's basketball article on page 20 incorrectly said "Women break UConn's 121-game Big East winning streak." However, rhe correct number was 112 games. The Observer regrets rhis error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU PLAN TO VOTE IN THE UPCOMING STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTION? 







Halle Kiefer Jackie Clark Danny Nolan Joanne Tisak Dan Llloyd Todd Torres 
junior junior freshman sophomore junior junior Welsh Family Welsh Family Sorin Pasquerilla East offcampus Siegfried 
''I'm writing in "Yes, I'll be "Yes, I'm voting "Yeah, sure -''I'm signing on "Yes -Charlie a vote for the writing in for for whoever has when's the with the Dave-Weisfor Clark-Kiefer Clark-Kiefer -the best election?" Shapell show. " president." 
ticket -we're we're Facebook running on an vehemently group. anti-minotaur pro-mullet." 
platform. " 
Pope loses battle with peace-symbol dove 
VATICAN CITY -Pope John Paul II shooed a dove -a symbol of peace -out his apartment window Sunday, chuckling with children who watched in delight as the bird flew back into his room over­looking St. Peter's Square. 
The pontiff was address­ing thousands of young people from an Italian Catholic organization who marked January as a month to promote peace. 
He was flanked at his studio window by a pair of 8-year-olds -a boy and girl -who urged the 
TODAY 

a:: 
LLI 
% 
=c 
LLI 
~ 
_, 
c( 
(.) 0 



"Dummer" name can make a poor first impression on prospective students and their parents, even though it's simply the surname of Massachusetts Gov. William Dummer, who donated land to start the school. 
"Hightly or wrongly, first impressions make a differ­ence," headmaster John Doggett said. "Certainly, when you go outside of the Boston region, the first impression sometimes doesn't convey what the school is all about." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

world to remember chil­dren who live in countries wracked by war. 
John Paul prayed that young people, "who so desire peace, become courageous and tenacious builders" of peace. 
'Dummer' academy seeks smarter name 
NEWBUHY, Mass.-The 18th century boarding school in Massachusetts ­the Governor Dummer Academy -wants to change its name to prevent any smart guys from mak­ing jokes about it. 
School headmaster John Doggett said the 
HIGH

.... 33 
LOW 20 


23 20 


35 23 

TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

37 
27 
IN BRIEF 
The Class of 2008 will sponsor a rosary at the Grotto today from 6:45 to 7:45p.m. 
Francisco Hodrfguez, Kellogg Visiting fellow from the lnstituto de Estudios Superiores de Adminstracion in Venezuela will present a lecture on "Why Did Venezuelan Growth Collapse?" today from 12:30 
p.m. to 1:30 in room C-103 of the llesburgh Center. 
Theology professor Todd Whitmore will speak about "Catholic Social Teaching and Interreligious Dialogue" today from 7 p.m. to 8:15 today in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The talk is spon­sored by the Program in Catholic Social Teaching's series on "Comparative Heligious Social Ethics." 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team will take on Boston College from 7 p.m. to 9 Wednesday in the Joyce Center Arena. 
The University will offer blood pressure and body fat screenings conducted by ProHealth, LLC. for faculty and staff Wednesday from 
11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the old Security Building. 
The exhibit "Art from the Inside: Drawings by Chicano Prisoners" will be open at the Snite Museum of Art today from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. The event is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

39 25 

36 31 

Tuesday, February I, 2005 The Observer + NEWS 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group plans tsunan1i fundraiser 
By KELLY BALE 
Nrws Wri1er 
Saint Mary's Board of (;ovlmumce met Monday to dis­cuss upcoming events to finaliz11 plans for the February l'undrais­er "Love Makes the World Go Hound, Show Your Love," which will aid childrnn loft orphanml and homnlnss by the Asian tsunami. 
"Thn month of February is l'llntnrnd around Valnntine's Day, sharing lovn and cnlebrating love as a community and with the world." studnnt body president Sarah Catlwrine White said. "I think Itlw fundraisnrl is a grnat way to 1:nlnbratn Valnntine's love and lend our support as a com­munity." 
Thn fundraiser, which will b1l sponsornd hy B<)(; and lnd by the Studnnt Covnrnrnnnt Association, will last tlw nntirn month. BOG has snt l.lw initial goal of the drivn at $1 pPr student. 
"Wn plan on k1~nping up with publieity and continuing to report to our studnnts where we arn with our goal," WhitP said. 
BO<; will set up eollPction bins in all dorms. tho Angela AthiPtic Facility, the dining hall. the bookstorn. l>alloway's and at all sc;A sponsonld nvnnts through­out thn month. 
Wonwn 's Issues Commissioner Katie Knlly announced that a Saint Mary's Pride Appredative Inquiry will b1l held F!lb. 15 from 5 p.m. to 7 in the Stapleton l.ounge. 
"W11 hopn to gnt an idea about how we can celebrate who wn are as Saint Mary's women," Knlly said. "It will really be a groat way to celebrate the pride we saw during the Inauguration Wnek," 

Although plans are being linctl­iznd, Kelly said the inquiry would be lnd by a faeulty or stall' mmnber and students who have experience in leading these types of discussions. 
"The main lclcus is to strength­en our community by realizing our unique gifls and talents at Saint Mary's," Kelly said. "From tho ldnntity Forum, we saw a nnnd to continue with forums, but to look at them from difl"er­nnt angles, and the inquiry is a now angle wn are trying." 
In other BOG news: 
+ Student Activities Board will host Dance Dance Hevolution Wndnesday at 8 p.m. in Dalloway's. 
"It's a lot of fun and you can practice your moves for the all school formal," SAB president Lauren Fabina said. 
+ Student Diversity Board eom­missioncr Adriana Puente announced SDB would hold a Cultural Taste Fest Feb. 17 and is also working on creating events for Black History Month. 
Sophomore class president Claudia Toth said the sophomore board would sponsor an Abroad Wnkome Back event Feb. 8. The board will also sell "Kisses for Wishes" this week next week in the dining hall, with proceeds donated to the Make a Wish Foundation. 
Contact Kelly Bale at kbaleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
page 3 

ND students provide tax aid to com.m.unity 
Accountancy professor coordinates program to assist low-income South Bend residents 
By STEVE KERINS 
News Writer 
Accounting students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will be participating in Notre Dame's 34th annual Vivian llarrington Gray Tax Assistance Program (TAP) starting Feb. 7. 
According to Ken Milani, accountancy professor and pro­gram coordinator, student vol­unteers will provide assistance with state and local tax returns to individuals in the local com­munity who earned loss than $35,000 in tho past year. Students involvod are familiar with U.S. tax law and thoro is no charge for the service, which is supported by funds from the Mendoza College of Business and supplies provided by the Internal Hevcnuo Service and the Indiana Department of Hcvcnue. 
TAP will continue through April 14, but will not operate during spring break and the Easter holiday. 
Currently, student voluntonrs are preparing to open sitos and begin their work. 
"We're moving right along in· schedule," student director Zach Wiggins said. "Wo'rn tak­ing care of logistie things right now." 
This year, 11 centers will be open in the South Bond area, including locations at the Notre Dame Center for Social 
Concerns and Saint Mary's llaggar llall. 
"Thern's one nnw eentnr in the ncar northwest neighbor­hood that wn'rn operating," Wiggins said. 
Interested taxpayers can bring copies of thnir f"nderal and state tax returns from last year and any other rPlevant documenl'i, such as rnal estat11 taxes, personal prop11rty tax11s, nwdieal bills and charitabl1~ contributions, nncessary for calculating itnmiznd dnduc­tions, Wiggins said. 
Those with morn eomplicatPd tax problems arP 1mcouragml to eome to TAP's f"mu· m;~jor cnn­ters -the Hiver Park, La Salin, downtown branchns of thn St. Joseph Public Library or the Mishawaka-Penn Public Library, and certified public aceountanl'i will bP on hand at these locations. Additionally, individual on-site hnlp is avail­abll~ to people unable to visit a TAP location, according to Wiggins. 
Last year, the program's vol­untPors filnd morn than 3.:~00 tax returns for Miehiana resi­dents, and organiz1ws nxpoct a similar turnout this ynar. 
"I think tho way prof"ossor Milani has it sot up, it's pn~tty similar from year to year," Wiggins said. 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd.edu 




Viruses added to list of known, suspected cancer causes 
Assncia1cJ Press 
WASHINGTON -The govern­nwnt is adding viruses f(Jr the first lilllll to il'i Jist of known or SUSpect­Pd 1:ausns of mnwr, including lwp­atil.is B and C and a third virus that causes snxually transmittod disnasns. f.pad, X-rays and com­pounds in grill11d meats also are joining the list. 
It has bonn known that the hep­atitis viruses can eause liver can­cer and that some forms of the sexually transmitted human papil­lomavirus can cause cervical can­cer. 
But they were add1~d to the list Monday only aflnr oflidals decided 
t.o go beyond the report's historical focus on the occupational and environmental causes of cancer, said Dr. Christopher Portier, asso­ciate director of the National Toxieology Program, which pre­pared tho latest update. 
"We felt !the report] nnndnd to be expanded to include other things in our general environment that can cause cancer," Portier said. 
Dr. Michael Thun, who runs thn American Cancer Society's epi­demiological program, said adding the viruses was important. "Those are human carcinogens and very important carcinogens," he said. 
The list, which now identifies 246 known or suspected cancer­causing agents, is intnndnd to 

Wednesday, February 2: 
Wednesday, February 2: Thursday, February 3: 
Thursday, February 3: 
Friday, Febr·uary 4: Satur·day, February 5: 
RSVP by 5:00p.m. to MSPS either 1-6841 or email msps@nd.edu BADIN HALL AFRICAN SPIRITUAL MASS 9 PM Badin Hall Chapel 
"WE AREND" T-SHIRT DAY. Show your support for the Board ofTrustees report·on Diversity by uniting yourself with other Domers and wear your "We AreND" shirt on the day the report is presented. 
RELIGIOUS DIVERSITY DISCUSSION 7:30-8:30PM Coleman-Morse Lounge Free Pizza and Pop 
MSPS COMEDY SHOW JOPM Legends 
PERFORMANCE BY MICHAEL JACOBS 7PM Kroc Institute Prominent Cherokee Musician 
give p11ople who may or may not be exposed to any or tlw sub­stances something to think about, hn said. 
Take X-rays, added to tlw "known" catngory. "This is simply to rnmind them that wlwn they arn making a dedsion about. an X­ray to think about it and talk it ovnr with your physieian," Pnrtinr said. 
But the American Collogo of Hadiology faultnd tho addition of X-rays and gamma rays, saying it was mislnading and could prompt patinnts to avoid getting nnmlml earn. 
"X-rays and gamma rays arn not substances that the general public has access or nxposurn to and do not bnlong on a list of sub­stancns that pose a risk to pnoplo in the course of their normal, daily livns," Dr. James Borgstodo, chair­man of tho radiology collnge's board of chancnllor·s, said in a statement. 
New to the suspectnd catngory am substances that form wlwn meal'> arn eooked or grillnd at high tnmporatures. Studies suggest an increased cancer risk when fiJOds containing them am natnn. 
But "does that mean you have to throw out your barbeeun grill'!" asked Dr. Elizabeth Whelan, a crit­ie of the list from thn American Coundl on Sdenee and llnalth, a consumer education J.,'roup. 
She said the "not eonsumnr friendly" list should indude infilr­mation on the typos of' exposures and dosages that cause cancer, as well as on the health bcnclil<> of' some of the substances identified, such as tamoxifen, the breast can­cer treatment pill. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, February 1, 2005 
Assault 
continued from page 1 
on any injuries the alleged vic­tim sustained, nor would she give her name or age. She also would not give the name or age of the ex-boyfriend, or comment on whether or not he is a Notre Dame student. 
Saint Mary's Security was alert­ed to the incident at about 11 :30 
p.m. Sunday, McDonald said, but did not find the ex-boyfriend after arriving at the student's room and conducting a complete search of Le Mans. It was unclear how he entered and exited the dorm, she said. 
There were no witnesses to the alleged assault, McDonald said, adding that the student does not have roommates. There was no indication that alcohol was a fac­tor in the incident, she said. 
A no-trespassing order has been issued against the ex-boyfriend, 
Donation 
continued from page 1 
want to· raise awareness for the issue," Boyle said. "And when a Notre Dame student hadn't received a heart transplant, it really puts the issue on the forefront." 
Boyle said while many students sign up to be organ donors when they attain their driver's licenses, most people do not realize that the license signature is not a legally­binding contract in most states. 
This causes hospi­tals to contact fami­lies of emergency victims, often resulting in a lapse of time during which the organs become unusable. The donor cards that will be handed out during the drive combat this problem. 
"What this card includes is space for both your signa­ture as well as the signature of your family member. So 
''And when a Notre Dame student hadn't received a 
heart transplant, it really puts the issue on the 
fiore~'ront., 
J' 
James Boyle Stanford section service commissioner 

registered to do it. We're looking to get people who haven't registered before to register and to talk to their families," he 
said. "One organdonor can save up to nine lives." 
Boyle also said drive organizers have 
set a goal of 2,000 cards. He believes the cause will speak for itself in getting stu­dents to sign up to 
donate, especially in the Catholic Notre Dame environment. 
if something happened to you, especially if you are in another state, they see your personal signa­ture on it as well as your family member's, and it is more legally binding," Boyle said. 
Boyle pointed out that while hos­pitals in states like Louisiana can defer taking action based on a signed driver's license, with this card doctors could honor the 
Election 
continued from page 1 
is pretty low," said Sarah Sheehan, a senior from Lewis Hall. 
''I'm a senior so it doesn't really affect me. I used to read the platforms [of previous elec­tions] but I don't anymore." 
Like Sheehan, Greg Schafer, a junior from Keough Hall, noted a pattern of declining relevance in student government during the past several years. 
''I'm just not that interested. I felt the same way about last year's election," said Greg Schafer. 
Still, Anderson said she is hopeful this year's election will be different. She cites the large number of candidates and diverse platforms as factors that may lead to greater stu­dent interest. 
she said. 

"The security department hasn't been in contact ... [but] they know who they're searching for, yes," McDonald said. 
The alleged suspect was driv­ing a 1978 black Porsche, direc­tor of security David Chapman said in an e-mail alert to the stu­dent body. 
Saint Mary's Security has not contacted outside police agencies for assistance thus far, Chapman added. But security officials did forward an incident report to the St. Joseph County Family Violence/Special Victims Unit, enabling the alleged victim to press charges should she decide to do so, McDonald said. 
LeMans Hall Director Kirsten Mannion refused to comment on the incident. 
Megan O'Neil contributed to this report. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
deceased's intention to donate even if family members cannot be con­tacted in the hours immediately fol­lowing death. 
According to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 18 people die each day because not enough organs are available for transplant. Roughly 84,000 people are on the waiting list for organs at any given time. 
Boyle said he hopes Notre Dame students will be touched by Kish's story and decide to donate in his honor. 
"Less than a third of people are 
"I think this drive is important because organ donation is a big issue, it's something that people don't think about," Boyle said. "You can make a big difference in peo­ple's lives. Becoming an organ donor is something you only have to do once." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 
"There are six tickets for the primary this year, and we are relying on the candidates to spark interest as individuals through their different plat­forms. We make the process more accessible, but the accountability is with the stu­dent body," said Anderson. 
Elections are Monday from 8 
a.m. until 8 p.m. All voting will take place online, and there will be a number of voting stations positioned in LaFortune. 
Despite the perception of a lack of student interest, sopho­more Andrew Cooper said he planned to pay close attention to the elections. 
"It's pretty important to me. We need someone good in the presidency. After all of the con­troversy last year, I hope that the voting works out this year," said Cooper. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel @nd.edu 
CLC 

continued from page 1 
reduce the amount of meals available, it would not neces­sarily reduce the amount of meals consumed by students. 
Currently, "Flex 14" and "Premium 21" are the only options for on-campus stu­dents. "Flex 10" would give stu­dents 10 dining hall meals a week and proportionally increase the amount of Flex Points per semester. 
Student body president Adam Istvan discussed the student government report sent to the Board of Trustees on "equality and creating a welcoming envi­ronment on campus" will be presented at the Thursday BOT meeting. 
"We feel that the issue we're discussing is really important, as the whole student body's report," Istvan said. 
COR 

continued from page 1 
any resources," Scott said. "The last think you want to be dealing with when living off­campus is mismanagement." 
Student body president Adam Istvan suggested the new off­campus safety committee address the issue and com­mended Scott for bringing the concern to the forefront. 
"This is for the off-campus safety committee .... There is no reason why the student union can't help-this is a great issue to be discussed in the public arena," Istvan said. 
Hall Presidents Council Co­chair Liz Cain, one of the stu­dents filing the lawsuit, suggest­ed appealing to the Office of Resident life for assistance. 
'EAATlVLKci 
He explained while this was part one, raising awareness of the current level of diversity on campus, part two, the solution, would take shape from now until April. 
To reinforce the idea of a uni­fied student body, not just stu­dent government, in support of the report, students are asked to wear their "We are ND" or other green shirts Thursday. 
Primarily Istvan, vice presi­dent Karla Bell and Baron wrote the BOT report, along with the help of several sena­tors. 
In other CLC news: 
+ 
Cavanaugh senator and co­chair of the social concerns task force Jordan Bongiovanni said her committee had been busy getting information in order for the Board of Trustees meeting. 

+ 
According to Leito, the vend­ing committee will be meeting with Dave Prentkowski, direc-


However, off-campus repre­sentative Dave McGowan noted the focus of ResLife is on-cam­pus issues rather than off-cam­pus topics. 
"You want ResLife to stretch into off-campus issues, but part of being off-campus is dealing with these types of things on your own," McGowan said. "It seems like Resllfe is completely separate from that." 
COR members ultimately agreed to send the issue to the Student senate off-campus safe­ty committee. 
Additionally, Istvan updated representatives on the Board of Trustees report, the second of three reports student govern­ment takes to the Board this school year. The 21-page docu­ment will focus on campus diversity issues, Istvan said. 
"The report is seeking to get the Board to acknowledge that tor of Food Services, Thursday. Prentkowski will then share the results of the 2,000 e-mails he sent to students regarding vending and laundry. 
+ Alex French, O'Neill senator and chair of the security task force, said either Fire Chief John Antonucci or his repre­sentative would be at his com­mittee's next meeting regarding the issue of fire safety presenta­tions in dorms. 
According to French, Notre Dame Security/Police assistant director Phil Johnson is setting up a meeting with the South Bend police this week to dis­cuss the possibility of a security ListServ for Notre Dame stu­dents. 
French also said Jimmy Flaherty, Student Union Board manager, is looking into adding lighting around the D6 parking lot. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
these issues exist on campus," Istvan said. "It covers racism, sexism and heterosexism." 
He encouraged representa­tives to read a copy of the report, which was scheduled to be posted on the student gov­ernment Web site Monday night. 
Istvan also noted the need for the student body to stand behind the BOT report. 
"We encourage students to wear their green shirts on Thursday because it is impor­tant that the report comes from the student body, not just stu­dent government," he said. 
The third Board of Trustees report, to be presented in April, will attempt to offer solutions to the diversity problem described in the second report, Istvan said. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 


SUMMER LANGUAGE GRANTS 
UNDERGRADUATE COMPETITION TO STUDY LANGUAGES FOR WHICH THE UNIVERSITY DOES NOT HAVE LARGE OVERSEAS STUDY PROGRAMS. 
Grants are designed to cover only aportion of program costs. 
For details and application forms, go to: 

htt~://www.nd.edu/__,sumlang/ or 
Pick up applications from the Office of International Studies· (154 Hurley Building· Ph 1·5203) 
application deadline: 3/4/05 


Sponsored by the Office ofInternational Studies and 1he College ofArts and Utters 


ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, February 1, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
==============================================================~ 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. guards kill four in prison riot 
B;\CIIDAD-U.S. guards opnnnd l'irn Monday on prisoners during a riot at tho main dntlmtion l'aeility l'or sneurity dntairwns, killing !'our ol' thPm, tlw U.S. eommand said. Six ot.lwr prisorwrs worn injun~cl. 
Tlw riot hrokn out shortly al'lnr noon altho Camp Bucca intPrnmnnt l'aeility near Umm <)asr in sout.lwrn Iraq aft.nr a routine search l'or contraband in onn ol' tho camp's 10 com­pounds, tlw command said in a statnmnnt. 
"Tho riot quickly spread to tlm~n additional compounds, with dntainnns throwing rocks and l'ashioning wnapons l'rom malnrials insidn tlu~ir living arnas," tlw statnnwnt said. 
"(;uards attPmptnd to calm thP increasingly volatiln situation using verbal warnings and, wlwn t.hat l'ailnd, by usn ol' non-lnthal foren." 
Girl's death threatens cease-fire 
(;;\/A CITY, c;aza Strip-Thn killing of a 10­ynar-old Palestinian girl in a Gaza schoolyard Monday promptnd Islamic militants to Jirn mor­tar slwlls al .lnwish snttlonwnLo; and nndangnrnd an unollidal cmtsn-fim bntwnnn lsranlis and 
l'alt~stinians. 
Tlw nmnwPd violencn overshadowed a mm~t­ing bntwnnn top lsnwli and Palestinian security o!lidals who worknd Monday to arnmgn a han­dovnr of snvnral Wost Bank towns to l'alnstinian nmtrol. lsradi ollidals said the security moot­ing nndPd with no accord on a handovnr. 
Although tho rircumstatH~os of N<whan Dnnb's death worn undnar, tho viohmee strainnd the roennt atmospluwn of goodwill botwmm lsraoli l'rinw Ministnr ;\rinl Sharon and nnw l'alnstinian lnadnr, Mahmoud Abbas. 
Tlw girl WiL<; killnd in llw eourtyard of a U.N. school in tlw Hafah rnfugm1 camp nnar the l•:gyptian bordnr, a frequnnt flashpoint of vio-
NATIONAL NEWS 
Clinton collapses before speech 
BUFFALO, N.Y.-Sen. llillary Hodham Clinton l'aintml Monday al'tnr complaining of a stomach virus before a scheduled speech on Social Sncurity. 
Slw rnmivml nwdical attnntion at the scmw, and then went on to givn another spnech at a ( :atholic mllngn Monday al'lnrnoon. 
"It WiL<;n't as dramatic as it sounds," Clinton said al'ltH' thn :{0-minutn spnnch. 
<:tinton aides said doctors bnlinvnd shn had a stomach virus. They said she li~ll weak at the private dub whnn~ she was to spnak, ncmlnd to sit down and tlwn faintnd briefly. 
Clinton, 57, was smiling when she walked out ol' tlw dub. thn gmwral manager said. 
Jackson stands before jurors 
SANTA MAIU;\, Calif. -Dressed in a bright white suit and a jewel-trimmed vest and belt, Mkhanl Jackson on Monday stood before thn lirst group of prospective jurors who could dneide his fate on charges he molested a tonnage caneer patient and plied the boy with alcohol at his Nevcrland Hanch. 
The pop superstar, accompanied by four defense lawyers, stood and smiled as he faeml prospeetive jurors for the start of jury snlection in what could become the most sensational celebrity trial the world has ever seen. lin grented thn clerk with a handshakn at the courthouse in this small coastal city in central California. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Bald eagle seen hunting by river 
MISIIAWAKA -An open stretch of the St. Joseph Hiver has drawn a bald eagle this winter. 
Hesidents first spotted the eagle hunting in the area last wnek. John Mroczek said he was reading a newspaper at his home when he lirst saw it. 
"I was upstairs when he yelled, 'Come down and sne the eagle,"' said his wife, Denise. "I thought it was on the Discovery Channel until he started yelling, 'Come quick."' 
Alla-wi calls for Iraqi unity after vote 
Local centers are working to tally sheets, but final results 1nay take 1nany days 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD. Iraq -Iraq's interim leader eallnd on his countrymen lo set asidn their diffnreneos Monday, while polling stations l'in­ishml the lirst-phasn count of millions of ballots from tlw weekend nlection that many Iraqis hope will·usher in demoeraey and hasten thn doparture of 150,000 Arnnriean troops. 
From the counts by indi­vidual stations, loeal eon­tors will prepare tally sheets and send them to Baghdad, whorn voto totals will be compiled, olection Commission ollkial Adel al­l.ami said. Final results could take up to 10 days. 
With turnout in the vote still unknown, ~~oncern was focused on partieipation by Iraq's Sunni Arab minority, amid fears that the group that drives the insurgency eould grow ever more alienated. Electoral com­mission ol'fieials said turnout in hardline Sunni areas was better than some expected, though they cited no numbers. ;\ U.S. diplo­mat warned that Sunni par­ticipation appearnd "con­siderably lower" than that of other groups. 

Meanwhile, guerrillas claimed to have shot down a British military C-130 Hercules transport plane issued a competing claim of voice of all Iraqis is prnsent lion. Ollidals of the United that crashed north of responsibility. The British in the eoming government." Iraqi Alliance said thoy Baghdad just after polls government would not In new violencn, three expndml to win at least 45 dosed Sunday. ;\l-Jazeera comment on the insurgents' U.S. Marines worn killed in perennt -and maybe nvnn aired an insurgent vidno claims, saying the eause ol' fighting south of Baghdad a slim outright majority ­showing a missile bning the crash was still being on Monday, al'ter two of soats in the 275-mmnbnr lin~d and flaming wreckage investigated. Marines were killed on National ;\ss<~mbly. Local purportnd to be that of the In his first news confer­election day. ;\t least 44 ollkials of tho parth~s with­plano. No missile impact ence since the elections, people wnre killnd in vio­in thn alliance said tho list was shown, and the Iraqi interim Prime lenee Sunday, when thern swnpt some soutlwrn dlins, footage's aul.hentieity could Minister ;\yad ;\llawi called were nine suicido attaeks, winning 90 pnrennt of tho not be eonlirmnd. on Iraqis to join together to most near polling sites in votns in Naja!' and HO pnr­
;\II 10 military personnel build a sodety shattered by Baghdad. eent in Basra. on the flight wore missing decades of war, tyranny, The country was already The daims could not be and presumed dead, which economic sanctions and focusing on goals almost as conlirnwd, and tho Alliance would be Britain's heaviost military oceupation. challenging as the election had bonn expneted to run singlo loss of life of the war, "The terrorists now know itself: forming a new gov­strong in the Shiitn heart­Dnfense Secretary Geoff that they cannot win," hn erning coalition onee tho land. (;oing into the voto, I loon said. said. "We are entering a vote is known, then writing the list headed by ;\llawi 
The video came from the new era of our history and a constitution and winning was also eonsidnrnd a main "Green Brigade," a previ­all Iraqis -whether they trust. contender. ously unknown arm of the voted or not -should The main Shiite elorieal­It was a poworful show­the National Islamic stand side by side to build backed faction in the race ing for tlw Alliance, Hosistance in Iraq. Another their future." lie promised was already claiming a endorsed by Shiitn Grand group, Ansar al-Islam, to work to ensure that "the strong showing in the elec-Ayatollah Ali ai-Sistani. 

Judge rules in favor of detainees 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Bush admin­istration must let foreign terror sus­pects challenge their confinement in 
U.S. 
courts, a judge said Monday in a ruling that found unconstitutional the hearing system set up by the Pentagon. 

U.S. 
District Judge Joyce Hens Green also raised concerns about whether detainees have been tor­tured during interrogations. Judges, she said, should make sure people are not detained indefinitely based on coerced and unreliable information. 


J-loreigners from about 40 different countries have been held at the U.S. 

Navy base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba -some for more than three years ­without being charged with any crimes. They were mainly swept up in the U.S.-led war in Afghanistan. 
The government contends the pris. oners are dangerous "enemy combat­ants" who, because they are foreign­ers, are not entitled to the same con­stitutional proteetions as Americans. 
Judges are trying to sort out detainee rights following a landmark Supreme Court ruling last summer that federal courts are open to appeals on behalf of the foreigners. 
Green's ruling conflicts with a deci­sion about two weeks ago by another federal judge in the same court who considered a similar lawsuit brought by a different group of dntainees. Judge Richard Leon found that while the Supreme Court gave detainees aecess to courts, it did not provide them the legal basis to try to win their freedom. 
Viet Dinh, a Georgetown Law School professor who worked on ter­rorism issues as an assistant to Attorney General .John Ashcroft, said because the two decisions "are so stark, it's more likely than not the Supreme Court will have to weigh in." 
That would mnan many more months of legal wrangling, induding hearings at an appeals court. 
Tuesday, February 1, 2005

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Organization fires founder, lVife 
Harassment allegations plague Habitat for Humanity's president 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA, Ga. -Habitat for Humanity International said Monday it fired its founder after months of dispute over allegations of his inappropriate conduct toward a female staffer. 
In a statement, the board's executive committee said it found insufficient evidence to substantiate the sexual harass­ment allegations stemming from a 2003 business trip, but it cited Millard Fuller's lack of cooperation with the investiga­tion. 
Officials also fired Fuller's wife, Linda, who co-founded the Christian home-building organization with him 28 years ago. 
In October, Fuller, 70, agreed to give up the title of chief exec­utive in a compromise that allowed him to retain the large­ly ceremonial titles of founder and president. Monday's deci­sion also stripped him of his presidential role. 
"We have tried repeatedly over the past several months to resolve differences in a spirit of respectful confidentiality," board chair Rey Ramsey said in the statement. "In every instance, the Fullers ultimately have rejected or been openly critical of any and all steps taken toward appropriate com­
Fuller has been accused of impropriety before. In 1990, several women at the head­quarters accused him of sexual harassment. Fuller said his behavior was the result of growing up in rural Georgia, where people are more physi­
promise." Fuller called the 
"So they decided 

announcement "an unfortunate turn they would take of events" and said the draconian stephe knew the board 
to fire not only me,

was unhappy with statements he had but my wife." made to the media about the board's 
Millard Fuller 

handling of the 
founder, president 
investigation. 
Habitat for Humanity 

"So they decided they would take cally demon­strative. 
Over the years, Fuller also had clashed with the board over the pace of the mission's worldwide growth and his decision to build a "global vil­lage" attraction in Georgia fea­
the draconian step to fire not only me, but my wife," he said. 
Habitat would not divulge details of the allegations against Fuller, but Fuller told The Associated Press last year that an aide had accused him of touching her on the neck, shoulder and thigh, and of telling her she had "smooth skin." 
turing a mock Third World slum and examples of Habitat houses. 
Habitat for Humanity, based in Americus, Ga., has a world­wide network of 3,300 affiliates that have built 175,000 houses in 100 countries and attracted high-profile volunteers, includ­ing former President Jimmy Carter. 
Detnocrats tnaintain opposition 
Party resolves to lay down markers, appreciate election's lessons 
Associated Press 
WASiliNGTON -Consigned by the voters to another season out of power, Democrats are eager to lay down markers for President Bush and congression­al Republicans on Iraq, Social Security and more at the same time they try to absorb the les­sons oflast fall's elections. 
It's a challenge complicated by Republican insistence on stirring echoes of the 2004 campaign at every turn, labeling President Bush's critics as obstructionists lacking alternative proposals. 
"I promise they'll hear us across the aisle. I promise they'll hear us down" at the White House, Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada assured his rank and file on the day he was· chosen Democratic leader. In the weeks since, he, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and others have hastened to fulfill that pledge. 
"We need an exit strategy so that we know what victory is and how we can get there, so that we know what we need to do and so that we know when the job is done" in Iraq, Reid said Monday in what his office called a "pre­buttal" to Bush's Wednesday night State of the Union speech. 
Reid cautioned against setting a deadline for a troop withdraw­al, saying that would empower "those who don't want us there." 
That placed him in conflict with other voices in his own party. 
Two dozen House Democrats recently signed on to legislation calling for Bush to develop a plan for the immediate with­drawal of U.S. forces. 
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D­Mass., a frequent and scathing critic of Bush's war policy, offered a third variation on the theme. Bush should use Iraq's national elections as the moment to "immediately announce his intention to negotiate a timetable for a drawdown of American combat forces with the new Iraqi Government," he said in advance of Sunday's balloting. At least 12,000 American troops and probably more should leave at once to send a stronger signal, Kennedy added. 
Other Democrats used last week's confirmation vote on Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to outline their differences with the administration. 
Sen. Mark Dayton, D-Minn., more blunt than most, accused administration officials of "lying to Congress, lying to our commit­tees, lying to the American peo­ple" in the run-up to the war. 
Rice cruised to confirmation by a lopsided margin of 85-13. Democrats 
pointed out it was "I promise they'll attract religious the largest number voters, and for­
hear us across the 

of votes cast in oppo­mer Rep. Tim
aisle. I promise 

sition to a nominee to Roemer of head the State they'll hear us Indiana, an Department since abortion oppo­
down." 

1825. nent, is among Democrats hope Dean's chal­
Harry Reid 

for stronger solidari­lengers. ty when Alberto senator, 0-Nev. Just before 
Outside Congress, Democrats are involved in an election to pick their next chairman, each contender pledging to lead the party back to power. "Strengthening the state parties is a central part of our plan to make the Democratic Party com­petitive in every race, in every district, in every state and terri­tory," former presidential con­tender Howard Dean said as he sought support during the day. 
For his part, Reid has said Democrats must learn to appeal to rural voters in states like his own. Other Democrats are talk­ing about find­ing ways to 
Gonzales' nomina­tion as attorney gen­eral comes to a vote. "It's hard to be a straight shooter when you're a blind loyalist," Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., said last week, as Bush's longtime legal adviser's nomination cleared the Senate Judiciary Committee on a party-line vote. 
Several Democrats said Gonzales failed to give full answers to their questions about his role in crafting administra­
r tion policies relating to question­ing of U.S.-held prisoners in the war on terror. 
Earlier, Schumer, at least, had . seemed less-then-certain to oppose Gonzales' nomination. 
"There's a lower standard, frankly, for attorney general than for judge, because you give the president who he wants," he said. That seemed a signal that controversy over Cabinet appointments was prelude to the battle Bush can expect if he sub­mits nominations for the federal courts -especially the Supreme Court -that Democrats find too conservative. 
Bush's State of 
the Union address, Democrats seemed united in their opposition to his plans for Social Security. The president wants voluntary per­sonal accounts for future retirees to be included in any legislation that puts the program on a permanently stable finan­cial footing. 
"Social Security does face problems down the road," Pelosi said Monday in her joint appear­ance with Reid. She added, though, "We can solve the long­term challenge without disman­tling Social Security, and without allowing this administration's false declaration of a crisis to justify a privatization that is unnecessary, unaffordable and unwise." 
Republicans leaders countered that argument in advance. "We need to modernize the system. If we don't, adequate benefits will not be there for the next genera­tion," reads a sample speech that the GOP rank and file was handed as part of a larger brief­ing book on the issue. 
Girl's death focuses attention on systetn 
and the vehicle. 
Tragedy demonstrates 

On Monday, the day after their classmate's body was found,
Amber Alert's limits 

counselors met with Collman's classmates at the 280-student 
Associated Press 

Crothersville Elementary School some 40 miles north of 
INDIANAPOLIS -The death Louisville, Ky. of a southern Indiana girl who "I think the number one ques­vanished last week has again tion was 'Why did this happen' focused attention on the limits of for the younger students," said the Amber Alert system Terry Goodin, superintendent of designed to help police rescue the Crothersville Community abducted child before they are Schools. harmed. Earlier this winter, the parents 
When Katlyn "Katie" of an Indianapolis girl found Collman's body was found dead six days after she vanished Sunday, it marked the first time questioned why authorities since Indiana's Amber Alert sys­never issued an Amber Alert in tem was started two years ago her case. that the missing child being Twelve-year-old Christina sought was found dead. Tedder disappeared Dec. 24 
State police did not issue a while walking from her home to statewide alert for Collman until a nearby convenience store. Six two days after the 10-year-old days later, a man who was an Crothersville girl went missing. acquaintance of Tedder's family A state trooper led investigators found her body to her body in a Sunday in a south­"[ think the number creek just north ern Indiana one question was of Indianapolis. stream. _ Marion County
'Why did this 
Police, who authorities said were awaiting happen' for the they did not autopsy results younger students. " request an alert Monday, said in her case there was not because no one 
Terry Goodin 
enough initial witnessed an information point­superintendent abduction or ing to an abduc­Crothersville crime. tion to meet state The U.S.
Community Schools 
guidelines for issuing an alert. 
"There was no information other than she was a missing child," said Indiana State Police Sgt. Jerry Goodin. 
Collman's father called Crothersville police about 8:15 
p.m. last Tuesday and said his daughter had not returned home four hours after leaving to buy toilet paper at a nearby store. 
State Police Maj. Dan Meek said local police called twice the next day to request an Amber Alert, but neither time did they have enough information for an alert. 
State law requires there to be enough information to make an alert useful, Meek said, and without a description of a sus­pect or suspect vehicle, police and citizens can only look for a child who may look like thou­sands of others. 
An alert was issued Thursday after someone said they had seen the fourth-grader riding in a white pickup truck and provid­ed a description of the driver 
Department of 
Justice, which 

administers the national Amber Alert system, says time is of the essence in abductions because statistics show three-quarters of the chil­dren killed by their kidnappers are slain within the first three hours of their disappearance. 
But national guidelines say police should confirm an abduc­tion has been occurred before issuing an alert, and finding wit­nesses or other evidence can take time. 
More than 11,500 children were reported missing in Indiana last year, Indiana State police spokesman 1st Sgt. Dave Bursten said Tuesday, and 368 girls and 293 boys have not yet been found. 
Some people argue that police should issue an Amber Alert whenever a child is reported missing, even without evidence of an abduction. Bursten said if that were done, police would be issuing an average of 33 Amber Alerts a day, or one every 43 minutes. 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2005 SWISS VALLEY 
BUS LEAVES LIBRARY CIRCLE AT 5:00 P.M. 
Cost: $40.00 Lift ticket. snow board & transport $35.00 Lift ticket. ski •·ental & transpot·t $25.00 Lift ticket & transport only 
RETURN BUS LEAVES SWISS VALLEY AT 10:00 P.M. BEGINNER LESSONS AVAILABLE FREE OF CHARGE 
REGISTER AND PAY IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS BEGINNING JANUARY 31, 2005 
DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 3, 2005@ 5:00 P.M. 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Tuesday, February 1, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
10,489.94 +62.74

jones 
.... 
Up: Some: Down: Composite Volume: 2,587 140 • 1,681,185,792 

AMEX 1,428.39 +6.53 NASDAQ 2,062.41 +26.58 NYSE 7,089.83 +57.84 s&PSOO I, 181.27 +9.91 NIKKEI(Tokyo) I I , 3 8 7.59 0.00 
ffif IOO(London) 4,852.30 +19.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR SER I (QQQQ) + 1.30 +0.48 37.40 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.38 +0.10 26.28 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +0.78 +0.14 18.04 INTEL CP (INTC) +0.94 +0.21 22.45 JDS UNIPHASE CP UDSU) -1.83 -0.04 2.15 
30-YEAR BOND -0.43 -0.20 45.90 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.15 -0.06 41.32 5-YEAR NOTE +0.27 +0.10 36.94 3-MONTH BILL +0.62 +0.15 24.22 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) + 1.02 48.20 GOLD ($tTroy oz.) -4.00 428.1 0 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.38 94.38 
Excha e Rates 

YEN I 03.6400 EURO 0.7662 POUND 0.5306 CANADIAN$ 1.2404 
IN BRIEF 
Lee Enterprises buys Pulitzer Inc. 
ST. LOUIS -Lee Enterprises Inc. is buying Pulitz11r Inc. -publisher of the St. Louis Post­Dispatch founded by famed newspaperman Joseph Pulitzm -in a $1.46 billion deal that Lee says would give it the nation's fourth biggest roster of daily newspapers. 
The nation's biggest newspaper publisher, <;annett Co., said it also had been a bidder for Pulitzer, whose 14 daily newspapers also include the Arizona Daily Star. 
I.IHl and Pulitzer said the deal, unanimously approved by both boards, would mesh two rwwspaper publishers with similar cultures and values, beginning with their long past. Lee is I 14 years old and Pulitzer dates to 1878, wlwn Joseph Pulitzer merged the St. Louis I>ispateh and thfl Post. Lee currently has 44 daily newspapers in 19 states. 
"Today bngins a new chapter in the long and storind history of Pulitzer," declared Hobert Woodworth, Pulitzer's president and chief nxecutivn. 
MetLife makes Citigroup purchase 
NEW YOHK-The insurance giant MetLife Inc. is buying Travelers Lifo & Annuity Co. for at lnast $11.5 billion from Citigroup Inc., tho nation's largnst financial institution. 
The two companies, both based in New York, said in a statement that the deal will make MetLife "the largest individual life insurer in North Anwrka, based on sales." 
In addition to buying Travelers Lifo, MetLife also is acquiring almost all of Citi's internation­al insurance business, the eompanies said. 
The deal alrnady has bonn approved by both eompanies' boards and is expeetnd to dose in thn sumnwr, the statement said. It said the prieo was "subjoct to dosing adjustmonts." 
Metl.if'e shares f'nll IIJ cnnts to dose at $31J.75 in Monday trading on tho New York Stock Hxdlltngo. Citigroup sharos rose 67 cents to dosn at $49.05 on tho Big Board. 
Citigroup had retained Travelers Life & Annuity in 2002 when it spun off' Travelers Property Casualty Corp. in a $5 billion initial public oll'l~ring. TraVlllers Property morgod with St. Paul Cos. Inc. in 2003 to create The St. Paul Travnlnrs Cos., based in St. Paul, Minn. 
SBC acquires AT&T in merger 
Deal pressures Verizon and BellSouth to keep pace by purchasing MCI Corp. 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -The pur­chase of' AT&T Corp. by SBC Communications Inc. saves "Ma Bell" from a nosedive into irrelevance in the industry it created more than a century ago. It also gives SBC the name and the network to fulfill its goal of being viewed as a truly national player rather than just a local telephone company. 
The $16 billion marriage of long-bitter rivals, whieh may takn until mid-2006 to clear intense r·egulatory scrutiny, would add long distance and business services to tho Jist of mar­kets where SBC holds a dominant role. It is already thn first or sncond largest U.S. provider ol' local calling, wireless and Internet services. 
The deal announced Monday also sparks imme­diate speculation as to whether two other litrgely regional powers, Verizon Communications Inc. and BeiiSouth Corp., will need to keep pace by purchas­ing MCI Corp. for its national network infra­structure and roster of corporate clients. 

While both SBC and Yerizon are by now far larger than Bedminster, N.J.-based AT&T on many Communications and traumas. AT&T's revenues have fronts, the business cus­therefore carries some First came an overpriced been on a steady slide, tomers served by AT&T non-national connotations binge of acquisitions in the from nearly $50 billion in and MCI include far more which San Antonio-based cable TV industry designed 191J9 to $30.5 billion in major corporations with SBC has strived to leave in to give AT&T its own 2004. Its residential cus­national communications the past. direct wire into the homes tomer base has fallen from needs. Many of those cus­"We obviously need a of consumers for the first a peak of 60 million to tomers arc hesitant to few days to figure all this time since it was forced to about 24 million at the end switch providers for a life­out because this (deal) spin off its local phone of last year. In their quar­line as vital as communi­came together kind of lines in 1984, creating terly update two weeks cations, making it hard for quick," Edward E. Southwestern Bell and six ago, AT&T executives the Bells to lure away Whitacre Jr., SBC's chair­other "Baby Bells." declined to suggest either AT&T's clients. man and chief executive, Then came the collapse trend might end any time 
For that reason, SBC said in a conference call. of the technology bubble soon. made clear that the global­"But," he stressed, "It's a and its briefly insatiable The agreement calls for ly recognized AT&T brand great name. It's not going demand for telecommuni­each share ol' AT&T to bo name would not disappear away." cations services; criticism purchased for SBC stock as a result of the deal. While it's. doubtful the over its inability to match worth $18.52 at Monday's 
The companies declined, valuable AT&T brand the fraudulent numbers price, plus a cash payment however, to say whether would ever have been being reported by of $1.30, for a total value the AT&T name might be abandoned, AT&T the WorldCom (now MCI); and of $19.81 per share. used for specific services company has been rapidly regulatory changes that That represents little or possibly even replace decaying as a viable busi­will end AT&T's ability to premium over AT&T's SBC, which formerly stood ness for l'ive years. bat­lease local Bell linns at low share price, which rose for Southwestern Bell tered by multiple financial government-set rates. sharply last wonk. 

Gain in stocks credited to election 
The flurry of new deals, meanwhiln, Broader stock indicators rose sub­
Associated Press 

showed eorporate America's confidence stantially. The Standard & Poor's 500 
NEW YORK -Successful elections in in the economy, which further cheernd index was up 9.91, or 0.85 percent, at Iraq and a bevy of merger and acquisi­Wall Street. Among the deals 1,181.27, and the Nasdaq composite tion deals pushed stocks higher announced Monday, Metlife Inc. said it index gained 26.58, or 1.31 pereent, to Monday in moderately heavy trading, would purchase Citigroup Inc.'s 2,062.41. with beat1m-down toeh stocks enjoying Travelers Life & Annuity division for Monday's move higher was adually the largest gains. · $11.5 billion. less than many analysts had expnetnd, 
The success of the Iraqi elections, "Not a bad Monday to wake up to," given the success in Iraq and the wave despite attacks on 38 of the nation's said Jay Suskind, head trader at Hyan of merger deals. But a handful of issues polling centors, along with OPEC's deci­Beck & Co. "We've had a lot of positive remain for Wall Strent in tho wonk sion to maintain current oil production catalysts here, and I think people are ahead, induding the Fodoral Hoservo's levels, removed a pair of obstacles that seeing that January has been very decision on the nation's bonehmark had prevented many investors from oversold. So we're moving forward, and internst rate, dun Wednesday, and getting into the market. The news out the market is now focused back on Friday's job creation report from the of the Middle East failed to halt rising growth and earnings." Labor Oepartment. By the end of the oil prices, even with a barr11l of light The Dow Jones industrial average week, investors are likely to have a very crude settling at $48.20, up $1.02, on closed up 62.74, or 0.6 percent, to dear picture of the oconomy and ean the New York M11rcantile Exchange. 10,489.94. invest with more conridenen. 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 8 
Tuesday, February 1, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Life, politics and bumper stickers 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 · 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWs EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DFSIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CoNTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 63!-4543 sports.!@nd.edu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudenrs ofrhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and S:Unt Mary's College. Editorial contenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisementS based on conrent. 
The news is reported as accurardy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observet 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qtmtiom regarding Observerpolicies should be dim:ud to Editor in ChiifM4tt Lqzar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obsc::rvcr {USPS 599 24000} is published Monday through Friday ex<:cpt durlng exam and vaation periods. A subscription to The Observer i5 $100 for onc:o academic ycu: $55 fur one semester. 
The Obsctvcr is published at: POSTMASTER 024 Sourh Dining H~l Send address -:orrecriom to: Nutrt Darne.lN 465-56.0779 The Observer Pttiodkal postage paid at Notre DAme P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices:. 024 South I;lin.ing Hall 
N<>tro Dame, IN 461$6·0779 
The Obsrrv(:r is a member ofthe Associated Press. All n::pmduaion rights :are resctvcd. 

As I walk through the parking lot on the way to DeBartolo or drive the streets of South Bend, I can't help but notice the array of bumper stickers. Ranging from the eternally hopeful, "Kerry-Edwards," to . 
the collegiate, Katie Boyle "University of Notre Dame Fighting ForMat It's 
Irish," this rainbow Worth of messages boldly declares anything from political party to the fact you brake for animals. 
Besides providing me with reading material at red lights (highly impor­tant), what purpose do bumper stick­ers serve? Do other drivers really need to know that the "Proud Parent of a Whitefish Bay Middle School Honor Student" is navigating your eggplant mini van? 
Has anyone actually changed their vote after looking at a bumper sticker? Well, I don't know about you, but once I saw that snazzy Bush-Cheney '04 logo on the back of a Ford Explorer on Juniper, I was convinced "W' was the man. There was something about the font. 
The sheer number of bumper stick­ers on the streets of America reflects the needs of a culture that demands instant gratification. Their one-liners fit our hurried lifestyle, distilling com­plex arguments to a five-second read. 
They also provide me with justifica­tion when I find myself cursing at other vehicles. "Of course you'd cut me off ... Libertarian driver!" 
Such easy labeling defies the com­plexity of who we are. Sure, the con­tact information at the bottom of this column may say I support the Democratic party. But unequivocally? Absolutely not. 
So why do we feel the need to define ourselves in such a limited fashion? In a world catered by the Value Meal, where the OC is an intellectual experi­ence, these labels provide enough def-­inition so others generally know our alignment without forcing any of us to be able to work through our actual philosophies. 
How incredibly different would 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
America be if its citizens did not define themselves as Republicans or Democrats but had to puzzle out the best possible solution to each national problem, such as health care or edu­cation? 
(Cue an a cappella version of John Lennon's "Imagine.") If politicians were forced to 
But politics should reach beyond these easy statements and black and white affiliations. The complexity of the issues with which politicians deal should be reflected in their own care­ful and considered evaluations as well as those of their constituents. 
If you believe in a particular politi­
cian, by all means support him in 
address an audience of well­
any way you can. Slap that informed constituents imag­campaign slogan on the back 
ine how different their campaigns might be, rather than their char­acteristic overarching promises, perhaps they would seriously discuss current crises and the best ways in which to manage them. 
Politics in America needs a reality check, and this wake-up call can only come from her elec­torate. Those running for pub­lic office should be able to offer a specific and fea­sible plan of action for each of their campaign ideas. 
Also, they should not feel compelled to toe the proverbial party line on each and every issue. 
Of course I'm not advocating the abolish­ment of political parties, but I do believe it is often all too easy to choose one side of the spectrum and blindly follow their positions. Neither am I trying to demonize bumper stickers, although there are only so many times the phrase "As Long As There Are Tests There Will Be Prayer in Public Schools" will strike me as new and innovative. 
Once. 
of your white Honda Civic. Just realize that in the end political campaigns should amount to so much more than the 90-second sound bytes on television, weathered yard signs and yes, bumper stickers. 
They should amount to what you believe in, 
and you should vote for whomev­er seems most likely to carry out that agenda, regardless of how fabulous their advertise­
ments look. Seeing beyond the 
glitz of ad cam­

paigns and media coverage can be difficult in our appearance-oriented society. Despite the presence of this veneer, it can be done. In the meantime, I'm going to have a few words with this double-parking Constitutionalist. 
Katie Boyle is a senior English, polit­
ical science and Spanish major. She 
supports the Democratic Party. She 
can be reached at kboyle2@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column 
are those of the author and not neces­
sarily those of The Observer. 
A view from the stage, please 
Everyone is raving about the new DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. i can't blame them; it's quite impressive in size and decor. After taking a look at the stage in the DPAC, I became very excited about the possibility of the newly founded Dance Company of Notre Dame performing at such a great venue. 
But I've come to fmd out only students from registered Notre Dame classes are permitted to use the stage. Therefore, Professor James McKenna's tap class could use the facility for its show this past semester, but the Dance Company of Notre Dame, a regis­tered club, cannot. I understand there is an overwhelming amount of interest in the space and that the University might find itself with "suggestions" from benefactors as to what the DPAC should be used for, but I believe students should be included. There are dancers' parents who have donated money to the construction of the DPAC whose daughters cannot dance on the stage they helped finance. 
Don't get me wrong, I'm thrilled the Philharmonic is coming (not so thrilled I couldn't get a ticket, though) and the University should continue to bring such accredited performing groups. Just give the students a chance, too. 
Ashley Lucchese Dance Company ofNotre Dame, President Jan. 31 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Teresa Fralish Dan Tapatillo Maddie Hanna Steve Coyer What kind of discrimination do you
Julie Bender Chris Khorey 

feel is most prevalent at Notre
Viewpoint Tim Dougherty Katherine Rowley Scene Dame and Saint Mary's? Graphics Ram a Desiree Zamora Gottumkkala 
lliustrator Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at Katie Knorr www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'The artist is nothing without the gift, but the gift is nothing without the work.,, 
Emile Zola author 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 1, 2005 page 9 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Definitely worthy of a storming 
In llw insidn eolumn of Monday's paper, Matt Lozar ofl'ored his opinion of Notre llanw's win over the University of Connecticut-more speeifically, his opinion of the <~ourt-rushing that followed thn win. It was apparnnt by his statemPnt, "I bPcame disappointed to bn a Notrn Dame student" that he might not have liked it. 
Lozar's take on the situation was that field or court-rushing should be saved for a win that "dnfirwd the snason," using the examples of our last two home football rnnetings with Michigan and the previous upsets of Pittsburgh and Connncticut in basketball. In his estimation, this win did not fit into that category. 
I am not horn to attack Lozar personally or his opinion. lie presPnts one idea on eourt-rushing; I just wanted to present another. There are plenty of people who thought thn win was indoml big enough to warrant a celebration as a few hundred stu<limts stormnd the eourt. Some people think this win may be the boost of eonfi­denr.l1 our tnam IH1Nied aftnr two letdowns on the road and with a daunting stretch of ganws against thP Big East's b11st toams right in front of us. 
At this point in our season, beating Connecticut was an "unbelievable win" for the program. Wn struggled from 3-point range but our big men played their best collec­tive game of the ynar, doing so against one of the best frontcourts in the conference. In fact. this may indeed be a win that "defines our season." 
l.ozar supports his <~ase by pointing out the team members did not wait around for the students after the game. The JACC has a policy of letting the opposing team dear the court before letting the students on, delaying the rushing. Even artnr that dnlay, Torin Francis was still around long enough to be happily mobbed by some apprecia­tive fans. 
This event has little bearing in the big picturn. llownver, if the show of energy and support from the students contributes in any small way to winning a game, then I say we rush the eourt more, not less. And that ineludes Boston College. 
I understand the nearly unanimous attitude on campus toward that particular institution, and I fully agree with it-my hatrnd for Boston Collegn started on the same day as my love for Notre Dame, on that infamous November day in 19!J3. But let us not pretend that going undefeated thus far in one of college basketball's tough­est conferences is an easy task. When their season's momentum and their ngos takn a hit next week, let's all be right there to comfort them ... or say whatever else might come to mind. 
Brian Tracy 
SCiliOf 
Knott Hall 
Jan..~I 

U-WIRE 
Save a plant, eat a cow 
I've done most things in reverse of norm nithnr out of gmwtie prmlisposition or spite. I was a fundarnnntalist turned agnostic: and wastml most of my youth on vegetarianism, disdplinn and cnlibacy. 
I was an undoreover vege­
Dennis

tarian for eight ynars, so I 
Hinkamp

fnnl lik11 I know th11se pnople 
intirnatnly. I atn tofu and 
Utah State 

bnan sprouts with the best of 
University

them. I was a falafel-eating 
Utah

fool. And, I felt supPrior in 
Statesman

doing it. No, I was just plain rude, but I have repented. 
I look back and realize that inviting a vege­tarian to a potluck party is like going to a time­share presentation just to kill time. 
The questions are unrelenting. 
"Does that have any meat in it?" "Has that pan had any meat in it'?'' "Is your home haunt­ed by the spirits of decapitated ehiekens?" 
"I don't know, could I get back to you on that the next time you're, like, on this planet?" I say. 
At this point we ought to discuss exactly what "meat" is. Sounds elementary I know. Although Wnbster's dictionary states meat is simply "the 11nsh of animals used as food," there is quite a hit of disagreement among the eating public. 
The U.S. Department of Agriculture routinely talks about food groups such as meat, fish and poultry. Since things that swim and have wings am animals, they are then also meat. So the USDA's listing is not only n~dundant, but repeti­tive and superfluous. 
There are people out there who call them­S11lves vegetarians because they don't eat red meat. So maybe if you could teach eows to swim or pigs to hang glid<l it would be OK to eat them? 
Then there arn the vegetarians who don't eat the animal, but tlwy do eat the animal products such as milk, eggs and cheese. They obviously have some romanticized notion that these happy, hard-working farm animals are some­how living morn rewarding lives produeing these products after which they then retire with a pnnsion to a farm somewhere in Vermont. 
I know what all you vng-heads are thinking: 
"That's why your writing is so angry and bit­tm, man. You'rn, like, ing11sting all the bad vibes from eating all those dead animals, you know'! If you just b11came a vegetarian again, you'd rrwllow out." 
This column originally appeared on Jan. 28 in The Utah .')talesman. the daily publication at Utah State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observu. 
Eat norm_ally despite stress 
It's spring semester, and for many stud11nts, especially seniors, watching the weight aller proclaiming well­thought-out New Year's rnsolutions, has slipped down a few notches from its spot as the num­bnr one priority. Staff Editorial For these students looking graduation University of right in the face, Mississippz this time of year is Daily not only a little sad Mississippian as the days count down but can be stressful and scary as the "real world' approaches. 
The hard truth, however, is that stress ean do harmful things to bodies if health isn't a No. 1 priority. 
More often than not, people deviate from their normal eating habits when they're stressed. You may be eating everything in sight while filling out those applications or are so busy set­ting up interviews and making the drive to Jackson and Memphis that you hardly have time to eat at all. 
Your new "stress mode" eating plan probably doesn't correlate with how­ever many pounds you planned on dropping as soon as you got back to school and hit up the gym. Going 

through this myself, I had to sit back 
and figure out some ways to prevent 
myself from falling into a strnssful 
pitfall, bringing unwanted wnight 
gain. 
If you know you are going to be extremely busy all day and may not have time to eat lunch, eat a big breakfast. I know this sounds diche, but breakfast gets your metabolism going and gives you the energy you need to conquer the massive to-do list, not to mention that it prevents you from snacking in between meals or eating way too much for dinner. 
If you absolutely have to have a snack, prepare some things ahead of time such as sugar-free jello, carrot and celery sticks, pickles or sugar­free popsicles. 
I understand how working out can become quite a challenge. You may have a schedule that makes it nearly impossible to go work out during the day, and by the time you can get to the gym everyone else has decided to go at the same time. What I have found to help this situation is to go jog or walk whenever you get a chance. 
If you are sitting at the house and about to get started on some account­ing homework, get on thn floor and do a few sets of crunches. You may not feellikn you arn getting much done, but if this is all you can squeeze in for the time being, it can't hurt. Give school a few morn weeks to sot­tie down, and you may lind you have an hour here and there to plan on going to the gym regularly. 
Until then, do the best you can to keep your health in cheek and when tempted to grab fast-food or order a late-night pizza to give in to stress, think about how you want to present yourself in your upcoming job inter­views. You want to feel as confident as you can and most people would agrPe that shedding a few pounds can definitely do the triek. 
This editorial originally appeared on Jan. 31 in the Daily Mississippian, the daily publication at the University ofMississippi. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


~~----­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, February 1, 2005 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Carrey's wacky antics drive 'Unfortunate Events' 
By RYAN ROGERS 
Scene Critic 
There is something uniquely delight­

ful about a dark children's film, and 'the book-to-111m adaptation of "Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate 
Events" delivers exactly that. 
The series of unfortunate events 
begins whnn thn three Wl~althy 
Baudelaire ehildrnn, Violet (Emily 
Browning), Klaus (Liam Aiken) and 
Sunny (Kara and Shelby Hoffman}, are 
orphaned aftnr their parents die in a 
mysterious fire. In turn the children 
are forced to live with the villainous 
Count Olaf (Jim Carrey). 
The greedy count then attempts to 
kill the children in order to inherit 
their fortune, 

fact, the very method of story-telling is refreshing. The film is based on three books in the literary series, and the viewer gets a real sense of that as the film's format is three familiar and lin­ear yet distinct episodes. Meanwhile it is all presided over by Lemony Snickct (voiced by Jude Law) himself, although he is perpetually silhouetted. 
The big-budget actor of this film is obviously Carrey. His performance is strong as the very nature of "Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events" allows Carrey to show his abil­ity and range. Count Olaf is an actor who takes on many different personas during the course of the film. The role is so diverse it leaves one wondering how much of a necessity it was to cast Carrey. While Carrey ultimately is very 
entertaining, there 

but the Baude­are occasions
Lemony Snicket's A Series
laires are a where Carrey goes clever bunch. of Unfortunate Events a bit too far, and Violet is a bril­
the viewers are left liant inventor rolling their eyes. while Klaus, as The style of an avid reader, "Lemony Snicket's knows just about Director: Brad Siiberling A Series of everything. Writer: Robert Gordon _ Unfortunate From here Olaf Starring: Jim Carrey, Meryl Streep, Jude Events" is wonder­and the Baud­Law, Liam Aiken and Billy Connolly ful. The film looks 
elaires match wits across fan­tastic settings alongside odd charac­ters. 
Everything about this film is imagina­tive. The costumes, the sets and even the predicaments the Baudelaires find themselves in are truly innovative. In 
and feels dark in 

an original sort of way yet it is still family friendly. This is a very fine and difficult line to walk because it is a children's film, but there is a lot of death and malevolence. This provides for a very interesting and endearing experience. 

However this darkness against fami­ly-friendly notion ends up causing a few problems for the film. The tone of the film is very difficult to place, and there are more than a few moments that seem tremendously out of place. For example Sunny, the youngest Baudelaire, speaks in a series of baby goo-goos and gaa-gaas which are sub­titled into cringe-inducing one-liners. The subtitles are so out of place that you get the impression the 11lmmakers were a little scared to make the film totally dark. 
This is also evident with all of the 
implied violence in the film. No one dies onscreen yet the story requires a lot of dying. This is not necessarily a problem, but it leaves one wondering how committed to darkness this film really is. "Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events" suffers from a mild identity crisis. 
In a time when most believe you can­not tell an original story, "Lemony Snieket's A Series of Unfortunate Events," even with its flaws, feels origi­nal. 
Contact Ryan Rogers at rrogers2@nd.edu 
DVD REVIEW 

Updated 'Troy' epic fails to conquer on DVD 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene C~itic 
When Hollywood decides to remake a classic tale, it inevitably runs the risk of offending long-time fans. In some instances. the literature has been around for thousands of years, passed through the generations. Hollywood then picks these tales up and tries to sell the story on its recognition and established fan base. While the resulting epics aren't usually terrible, they still tend to stray far enough from the principal literature to fans. 
Such is the case with the movie "Troy," directed by Wolfgang Petersen. Considered purely as a stand-alone film, disregarding its source as one of Homer's epic poems, it has all the mak­ings of ·a terrific summer blockbuster. The east is full of A-list stars, including Brad Pitt, Eric Bana, Orlando Bloom and Brian Cox, among others. It is action­packed with two great ancient kingdoms fighting each other. And the story itself is quite enjoyable, despite the wooden act­ing from some of the stars. 
It's too bad the story isn't the same tale originally envisioned by Homer. When one sets the film and the epic poem side by side, the liberties taken in "Troy" become pretty obvious. Certain charac­ters were changed, while others were cut outright from the film story. Key characters to the tale are gone com­pletely, such as the Queen of Troy. Her exclusion wouldn't bother the average moviegoer, but for fans of Homer's works, the absence is noticeable. 

The acting in this epic varies from great to atrocious. For being one of the central characters, Bloom's performance seems unoriginal and leaves a little to be desired. He played a role too similar to the character he played in "Pirates of the Caribbean," so people know what to expect. Pitt doesn't show much range in his role either, although his performance is towards the middle of the spectrum. Diane Kruger's performance as Helen was also lacking and mediocre at best. 
The best characters within the movie are the two leaders of the warring fac­tions, the Greeks and the Trojans. King Agamemnon (Cox) and King Priam (Peter O'Toole) are two of the most inter­esting characters within the movie. O'Toole displays some decent depth as 
the king of Troy while Brian Cox turns in anoth­er decent role as a slimy villain. Bana also did a commendable job as Hector, the tragic hero. 
The DVD itself isn't that bad. The audio is quite nice, as is the video. There is a wide gamut of locales within the movie, both in daytime and dur­ing night settings. Each of these locales are well represented within the movie and shine due to the superior video quality. It's pretty much everything you would expect from a summer block­buster DVD. 


Unfortunately, that standard of quality does not hold true for the DVD's extras. The extras are on the light side, to put it nicely. The most immediate, and surpris­ing, omission would be a director or east commentary track. There are three spe­cial features though, basically consisting of making-of documentaries. The odd­ball of the trio would be the "Gallery of the Gods," which showcases the Greek gods absent from the film itself. 
"Troy" is by no means a bad movie, certainly not one that deserved critic Hoger Ebert's Worst Movie of 2004 award. The film was made as a modern version of the Troy legend, true to the heritage while updating it for the times. 
However, there is still no excuse for the poor acting on the part of such well­paid stars. And as a DVD, the paltry extras hardly make the movie any more enticing. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mhemende@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, February 1, 2005 
page II 
DVD REVIEW 
Extended "Rings' DVD fit for a "King' 
By JONATHAN RETARTHA 
Set'tll' ( :ritic 
Af'lPr l'our Goldnn Globes, two (;rammys and a clean sweep ol' 11 Acadnmy Awards, it would bo oasy to think nvnrything thoro is to say about dinwtor Pntnr .Jarkson's opnratic finaln, "ThP Lord ol' thn Hings: Tho Hoturn of thn King," has already bonn said. .Jackson, apparnnlly, disag-rnns. 
Following in tlw tradition of .Jackson's l'irst. two films. "The Fellowship of the Hing" and "Tiw Two Towers," is a mas­sivP 4-disr nxtnndnd Pdition that adds dosn to a full hour or nxtra footage, pushing thn total running time well ovnr fotir hours. As with llw othnr nxtnmll~d Pditions, .Jackson intnrw1~avns the addnd srf'nns into an nntirnly IWW rut ol' the l'ilm, rompiPtn with additional music srorPd hy Aradnmy Award winner lloward Shorn. Thn extnnd1HI cut, while nxtrPmPiy long for thosn who aro not diP-hard fans of the film, snrves as an inrrndibly rir.h prnsentation that will ho dwrislwd by both fans or dnnma and fans of .I.ILH. Tolkion's sourcn matnrial. 
Whiln tho nxtmtdnd editions of the first two films snrv1~d primarily to incorpo­rate scnnes that purists of the novel would apprneiatn, Jackson's extended rut of "King" thoroughly addressos almost all or thn major criticisms or the Uwatrical cut rolnased in December 2003. One of the biggest concerns among fans and crities was the appar­nnt disappearance of Saruman (Christopher Lee), a lead villain for the trilogy, from tho third film. 
Fans knew well in advancn of the the­atrieal rnlease that Jackson shot several scenes with Lne addressing Gandalf (ian MrKnllen) and company from the pinna­do of Orthane. An Internet furor result­ed wlwn word was leaked of the scene's deletion from tho film . .Jackson has roin­snrtnd tho sceno into the extended cut, and it is a wnlcome reedit because it dntails the dnmise ol' Saruman (though slightly di!Tnrnnt from thn novel). 
Anotlwr major critidsm of' the thnatri­cal rnlnasn was tlw undnrdovelopment ol' llnnnthor (.John Noble), tho Steward of' <;ondor. Whiln the motivation for his appanmt madnnss is a hit doudy in the tlwatrical cut. .Jackson has usPd tho nxlnndml cuts ol' both "Tiw Two Towors" and "Tiw Hnturn of' tho King" to proper­ly l'lnsh out l>nnnthor's character. The nnw s(:enns dntail thn history of' llniwthor's lineage and tlw drastie dnrlinn of' tho kingdom of' (;ondor through tlw ennturins. 
Thn nxtendnd cut also adds signifkant dnpth to tlw charaetPrs of Faramir (David Wonham) and Eowyn (Miranda Otto). Additional semws ofTnr insight into both tlw individual motivations or tlw eharaelers as well as into tlwir I'Vnntual ndationship. 

The most significant addition to tho oxtendod cut, however, is the appear­ance ol' the Mouth of Sauron (Bruce Spenen), the enemy's emissary who greots the armies of Rohan and Gondor near the film's finale. The appearance of this character entirely alters the emo­tional setup and payoff of the scene. In the theatrical cut, the armies charge into Mordor in order to divert the enemy away from Frodo (Elijah Wood) and Sam (Sean Astin) as they make their way up Mount Doom to destroy the Hing. 
The appearance of the Mouth of Sauron at 
the gate, however, introd­uces the twist that appears in tho no­vel. The Mouth of Sauron prosonl.s Frodo 's c­hain mail 
to tho Co­ndor armies, making the heroes believe Frodo is dead, when in aetualit.y ho is not. Therefore, Aragor11's (Viggo Mortm1sen) climaetie line, "for Frodo," takes on a completely different context in the oxtended cut. Instead of lighting for Frodo to have a chance to destroy the ring. they am fighting in memory of Frodo, and the scone becomes filled with a sonse of despair and utter hopn­lossnnss as the armies charge towards what they believe is now cnrtain death. Never before in the brief history of "extra footage" DVDs has the addition of a scene so drastically altered the tone and emotion of a scene than at the eli­max of "The Return of the King." 
The biggest complaint across the board of "The Heturn of the King" was undoubtedly its litany ol' successive end­ings. Just when the screen !'ados to black and the film appears to be over, another scene begins that lengthens the finale. Jackson has always resolutely stood by his ending, professing that such a finish is needed for the sheer wealth ol' characters and plot lines involved in such a trilogy. Therefore, he does n­ot touch the ending of the film in this ex­tended edition, neither shortening it nor len­gthening 
it, which should please lilm purists. 
This decision will probably delight fans of tho lilms who have no problem with the ending, but will continuo to gal­vanize tho legions of book purists. Many eontinued to hold out hope to tho bitter end of seeing at least a small portion of "The Scourging of tho Shire," the series ol' final chapters that details tho hobbits' return to llobbiton, only to lind it over­run by orcs. 
Such scones, according to .Jackson, were never lilmed in their entirety and 
will never be seen in any furthnr DVD rnleasns. .laekson insists thorn is nvm1 more footagn hn would likn to add into a separato "oxt.ras" sedion of tlw eventu­al 25th annivnrsary n~lmtse. 
As with the other two extended edition DVDs. the presontation of King is unpar­alleled. The digital t.ransfnr is stunning. especially on lligh Definition televisions. Tlw darity of the picture and tlw rich­ness of tho eolors truly makes tlw DVD nxporionce just as good. if not lwl.t.er, than the thnal.or OXJWrionco. 
Such pnrfoction also stwvos as a testa­nwnt to tlw spodal niTncts, which con­tinue to look flawloss. oven when shown in sueh a strikingly doar format. Tlw dtaraetnr ol' Collum (Andy Snrkis) truly is a bn nch mark in vis u a I nITer.ts, and dnsnrves to bn placed with tlw T-1 000 charactnr of "Tnrrninator 2" and tlw ".Jurassie Park" dinosaurs as a land­mark that will 1:ontinue to amazo and convince audionc1~s docadns into thP futurn. 
Tho two dis1:s ol' oxtra foal.urns inrlud­od with tho oxtended edition sorvo as landmarks in their own right. continu­ing the rich tradition ol' tho l'irst two extended edition I>VI>s. Tlwy also pro­vide one of the most comprnlwnsive looks at thn pr()(:ess of lilmmaking ovnr crnated. Disc I contains hours of video and hundrnds ol' drawings detailing thn pro-production aspoct of the film. Some video features, such as "J.H.H. Tolkinn: The Legacy of Middle Earth" and "From Book to Script," are continuations of features in tlw previous two extondod DVDs. When combined, these documen­taries are long enough to produce fea­ture length documentaries in and of themselves! 
Disc 2 deals with the shooting of tho film. and the insanity that onsuod as tho deadline quickly approached for the final cut of the lilm. While thnso oxtras are very entertaining and ~~xeiting, it makes one wonder what tho films would have been like if they had two years in between to perfect them instead of just onn. 
"The Heturn of' the King" extended edition earrins on tho standard of high quality from the two previous DVDs in the trilogy. The hours of extra footagn elnarly show thn amount of' love and nffort put into tlwsn films by overy01w involved. Tlw I>VI> serves as a fitting tribute to the lilmmakers, as well as to tho fans. So many pnople havn dnvol­opnd a lifo-long love of cinnnut and liter­­atun~ from these lilms. 
It is appropriate for such historic lilms to be documnntod and honornd in l.hnsn nxtended edition DVI>s. They will ensure that generations f'rom now, viewers of' all ages can watch t.lwm and bn abh~ to reflect on those masterpieces. 
Contact Jonathan Retartha at jretarth@nd.edu 



-
Photo courtesy of movieweb.com The Witch King (Lawrence Makoare) draws his sword In a new scene from the extended edition DVD of "The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King." 

---~--------------~------­
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 1, 2005 
NBA 
Iverson returns, leads Sixers over Pacers 89-88 
struggled most of the night been good to me as far as tak­
Hawks end losing 
against the Hawks, who have ing it easy on my back. My the worst record in the back was pretty tight tonight,"
streak; Rockets hold 
Eastern Conference. Orlando McGrady said off late Boston run barely topped its scoring low Grizzlies 98, Hornets 91 
for the season, 78 points in a Lorenzen Wright sensed well Associated Press Jan. 24 loss at Houston. before taking the floor that his A steal by Doug Christie led ~hooting struggles were about 
PHILADELPHIA -Allen to Delk's sixth foul with 1:08 to end. Iverson has no problem pass­left, and Francis sank two free He was right. ing up a potential winning shot throws to pull the Magic to 76-Wright finished with a sea­when he knows the ball is 75. son-high 19 points and 11 going to Kyle Korver. An offensive rebound and rebounds to help the Memphis 
Korver made a go-ahead putback by Howard gave Grizzlies earn a victory over jumper with 6.5 seconds left, Orlando a 77-76 lead with the New Orleans Hornets. and Iverson returned from a 33.8 seconds left, but "I got up this morning and I three-game absence to score Harrington answered with a felt pretty good," Wright said. 27 points. baseline shot for a 78-77 lead. "I've been talking to a few 
"You see a guy in his second Following a timeout, Francis people who've been telling me year who's able to hit a big drove past Boris Diaw for a not to hesitate -just shoot it shot like that, it says a lot layup with 11.3 seconds left to and take my shots in the about him as a player," give the lead back to the Magic offense." Iverson said. "It says a lot before Walker came through Wright had been averaging about his confidence and the for Atlanta. about seven points. But he confidence the coaching staff Howard scored a career-high matched Stromile Swift as and we have in him." 24 points against the Hawks Memphis' leading scorer 
Korver hit five 3-pointers on Nov. 26, and the Atlanta against New Orleans, with and shot 6-for-9 overall to fin­native had three jams in a both making key baskets down ish with 17 points. He has 126 strong first period. Howard the :>tretch. 3-pointers, fifth on the Sixers' didn't score again in the first Spurs 103, SuperSonics 84 single-season list. He sank at half as the Hawks opened the Manu Ginobili scored 23 least four 3s for the 14th time second quarter with an 8-0 points and Tim Duncan had 21 this season. run and led 40-32 at halftime. points and 10 rebounds, lead­
"I sometimes feel like I'm in Howard finished with 16 ing the San Antonio Spurs to a real groove and that's how I points and 11 rebounds. their first victory of the season felt tonight," Korver said. "I Orlando ranks eighth in the in three tries against the felt like I shouldn't have NBA in scoring, but its road Seattle SuperSonics, missed many shots." average of 96.2 points per Tony Parker had 17 points 
Kenny Thomas scored 12 for game is almost 10 points and 10 assists for the Spurs, the Sixers, who opened a four­below its home average. who have the NBA's best game homestand. Rockets 97, Celtics 94 record at 37-10. The 
Stephen Jackson scored 25 Jon Barry scored 15 of his Northwest Division-leading points and Jermaine O'Neal 17 points in the fourth to com­Sonics are 30-13. had 21 points and 1 0 rebounds plement 23 points from Yao The Sanies played without for the Pacers, who lost their Ming, leading Houston to a All-Star guard and top scorer fifth straight. victory over the Boston Celtics. Ray Allen, who missed his first 
The Sixers sure are getting Houston blew a 16-point game of the season because of used to these dramatic wins lead but rallied behind Barry, the flu. against the Pacers. In who scored 11 points in the They also were without
-· 
November, Iverson beat them first 2:57 of the fourth, to snap coach Nate McMillan. He was with the first buzzer-beating a two-game skid and move in Raleigh, N.C., following of shot of his nine-year career on back to .500 on the road. the death of his mother a 14-footer in overtime. With Boston focused on stop­Sunday. The Sonics were 
"I was thinking maybe I ping Yao and McGrady in coached by assistant Dwane could get another game-win­crunch time, Barry had some Casey. worst month in the franchise's their previous five road games ner against that team," open looks and made the most Without Allen, who is eighth 59-year history. Their previous against them. Iverson said. of them. He opened the fourth in the NBA in scoring at 24 worst was 3-14 in March 1986 New York has lost its last 13 
Indiana led 88-87 when with a 20-foot jumper, then points per game, the Sonics and January 1963. Jamal games in the Pacific time zone Thomas made a nice little knocked down three 3-point­struggled offensively against Crawford scored 11 straight since beating the Lakers on hook pass to Samuel ers in the next two minutes to the Spurs, the league's top Knicks points in the fourth and Feb. 16, 2003 -thanks to Dalembert under the basket. put the Rockets ahead 78-68 defensive team. finished with 19. Houston's career-high 53 Dalembert, though, had his with 9:03 left. Clippers 96, Knicks 89 All five starters scored in points. dunk blocked by O'Neal, the Barry, who went scoreless Elton Brand scored 24 double figures for the Clippers, The Clippers, who never led Pacers recovered and Jackson Sunday night in Miami, added points, and Chris Kaman had who have won four of five fol­in a 110-96 loss at Madison was fouled. a finger roll with 2:07 left that 18 points and 10 rebounds to lowing a five-game losing Square Garden on Nov. 12, Hawks 80, Magic 79 Boston coach Doc Rivers called lead the Los Angeles Clippers streak. Brand made 10 of 19 didn't take their first lead in 
Antoine Walker shot 4-for-13 the most important basket of over the New York Knicks 96-shots and got all eight of his this one until Marko Jaric's 3­and scored only 12 po1nts, but the game. 89 on Monday night. rebounds in the second half. pointer put them ahead 58-57 his jumper over Josh Howard "You certainly never think The Clippers improved to 6-1 The Knicks have lost 13 of with 7:34 left in the third helped the Hawks snap a four­you're going to come down without Corey Maggette, who 15 and six straight on the road quarter. game losing streak. and do something like that. It's was· sidelined for the second since a 119-111 win over Neither team led by more 
Steve Francis scored 24 rare I take five shots in a row. straight game because of an Orlando on Dec. 27. They are than three over the next 13 points for Orlando and Grant Fortunately, I knocked a cou­injured collarbone after miss­1-4 since Lenny Wilkens 1/2 minutes before the Hill added 19, but Hill's final ple down. And we needed it," ing two last week with a foot resigned as coach on Jan. 22 Clippers pulled ahead 87-81 shot at the buzzer bounced off Barry said. injury. New York dropped to and was replaced by Herb with 3:56 to play. Jaric con­the rim. McGrady scored 16 points, 10-14 without Allan Houston, Williams. verted his midcourt steal 
Tony Delk led the Hawks but he didn't attempt a field on the injured list with a New York has dropped all six against Marbury into a break­with 17 points, and AI goal in the fourth quarter due chronically sore left knee. games against the Clippers at away layup, and Kaman fol­Harrington added 16. in part to back trouble he Stephon Marbury scored 20 Staples Center since the build­lowed another Knicks turnover 
Fresh off a two-game sweep blamed on the weather. points for the Knicks, who fin­ing opened in 1999. Before with a dunk, then added a 16­of Washington, the Magic "This cold weather has not ished 2-13 in January, the that, the Knicks won each of footer. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Hot New Spirit "T" Shirt! Hanes  COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR  Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5  1994 NO grads hoping to adopt.  
LOST & FOUND  Heavy Duty, Kelly Green w/Gold Imprint. Front: WEIS UP! Back: Get  LEASE 2005-2006 Academic year-Available June 1 ,2005 2 Bedrooms- PERSONAL  Days $299! Includes Meals, Celebrity Parties! Panama City,  Please see ParentProfiles.com for more info (Arizona/Michael &  
Nasty! .$16.95 ea/2 for $30 plus  2 Baths, Washer/Dryer, Security  Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica,  Kathryn).  
LOST: CAR KEYS w/Caesar s  S+H 574-273-8239.  System. Fully Furnished (574)233­ Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award  
- keyring near JACC Monday morn­ing. Reward offered. Call507-304­ 7373 or Salvaty@earthlink.net  Spring Break 2005 with STS,  Winning Company! SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678­ Stunned ... relieved ... excited  
0446.  FoR RENT  8-bdrm house close to ND.Great area.  Americas #1 Student Tour Oper­ator. Hiring campus reps.  6386  Tigger loves Eeyore  
2773097  Cheapest 2005 Spring Break $499  News? Fine by HVH.  
FoR SALE  COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINI- Call for group discounts.  all-inclusive, all drinks, all food, all  
UMS AVAILABLE FOR 05-06  Great homes ideal for 3-6 stu­ parties! www.needspringbreak.com  Looking for Maria? Go to North  
One bedroom condo near UNO.  SCHOOL YEAR.TWO BED- dents. Close to ND.Nice area.  Info/Reservations  Quad!  
Appliances $72,000 280-8160 Kim  ROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY 235­ 
Kollar  7234 FOR MORE DETAIL.  2773097  1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com  1-866-668-9037.  Uggs are uggly  

Tuesday, February 1, 2005 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 


:H~r·· ······.,~~~~~r 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 
17 
18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 
%iM:~'?i~"<i#i): .. :·::=·:·::f~~;,;.:,,=, ·+f:@~iF~~1FW!-W:=··· 
ITA Men's Tennis R
./ ...... . 
<#..
team 
Baylor (30) UCLA 
Florida Georgia Illinois Mississippi Slanlord 
usc 
Duke Virginia Ohio State LSU Kentucky 
vcu 
TexasA&M Rice TCU North Carolina Tulane Vanderbilt Washington Arkansas • FayeHevilll Auburn Harvard Tennessee 
fooiiit$ 
2394"". 
2365 
2282 2274 2249 2227 2203 2180 2140. 2119 2088 2010 1967 ·1937 1914 1885 1831 1828 1802 1761 1760 1115 1640 1600 1580 
ITA Women's Tennis Poll 
team 
1 Stanford (29) 
2 Florida 
3 Clemson 
4 UCLA 
5 Northwestern 
6 Vanderbilt 
7 Soufllern California I%!\ 
8 Duke 
9 Tulane 

10 Washington ·<# 11. Texas . 
12 Miami (Fla.) 
Georgia
~:4 Kentucky 
15 North Carolina 
17 California 
17 Tennessee 
19 TCU 
20 Michigan 
21 NOTRE DAME 
21 Fresno State 
23 LSU 
24 New Mexico 
25 BYU 
points 
1575 1540
1538'· .)il).::: 
1530 ??.·················•;•) 1529 .•. 1522 

·}f:,:.?'" 
USFCA Fencing.·Polls.)JI!III!II!.lr:l··,:•· 
NFL 


AP 

Philadelphia receiver Terrell Owens makes a catch during the team's first practice Monday in Jacksonville, Aa. Owens has not played since ankle surgery in December. 
Owens has first practice since injury 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -T.O. is abnost a go. 
Terrell Owens, the Philadelphia Eagles' All-Pro receiver, practiced Monday for the first time since injur­ing his ankle last month, moving clos· er toward returning for the Super Bowl. 
"I won't say anything outside of 'He looks great. He looks great. He looks great,"' Eagles safety Michael Lewis said. 
Owens took part in less than one­third of the team's 30 plays, getting a pass each time he ran a route. Just last week, Dr. Mark Myerson, the sur­geon who operated on Owens' right ankle in December, said he would not clear him to suit up against the New 
1 
2 
+3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
Men's 
··W~en'~~c:·.\ 
team 
team Ohio State .jr 

Ohio Stall Penn State 
NOTRE DAME 
·=·i~ .·.=.=.·=pen,. state,
StJohn's NOTREDAME Harvard 4;.

Columbia t!timi
Columbia ,, 
Northwestern 6 Pennsylvania 
Princeton 
"' $t, John's lit:% Harvard 
Pennsylvania ., Stanford 
Princeton 9iji!· Air Force 
Temple 10 
IN BRIEF 
S~adea, Mello advance in 
Millenmum International 
DELRAY BEACH, Fla. -Top· seeded Vincent Spadea defeated Hugo Armando 6·2, 6-3 Monday 
night to  advance  to  the second  
round  of  the  Millennium  
International  Tennis  
Championships.  

Also advancing was defending champion Ricardo Mello. Fifth-seed­ed Mello defeated Tomas Zib 7-6 (4), 6·3. 
The 21st-ranked Spadea eliminat· ed the unseeded Armando in an hour. In their only other meeting, Spadea needed three sets to defeat Armando in the quarterfinals of the 2004 lTC. Spadea went on to lose to Brazilian Ricardo Mello in the final. 
"I had a little bit better game plan," said Spadea, who has one ATP victory. 
"I stayed back a little bit on my return. He gets a lot of first serves in. I was able to control some points off his serve. I executed pretty well." 

England Patriots on Sunday. 
"We limited what he did, but he did it well, and he did it with the team," Eagles coach Andy Reid said. "He moved around pretty well. I'll have to see how he does before we decide whether he'll play." 
Owens hasn't played since he severely sprained his ankle and broke his leg in a game against Dallas on Dec. 19. He's expected to be on the field when the Eagles resume practice on Wednesday. 
In his first season with the Eagles after eight years in San Francisco, Owens led Philadelphia with 77 catch­es for 1,200 yards and 14 TDs. 
"It's always a lift when you can get anyone out there, an added weapon," quarterback Donovan McNabb said. "He did make some big plays for us. 
Owners and PJ11_yers make 
no progress in NHL lockout 
NEW YORK -The NHL and the players' association are now disput­ing whether they have anything to talk about. 
The sides have had just limited contact by phone since Thursday, when the league presented more salary-cap concepts in an effort to reach a new collective bargaining agreement. 
But even that talking stopped Monday, leaving even less optimism that the hockey season could be saved. 
Bill Daly, the NHL's chief legal offi­cer, expected to hear from the play· ers' association on Monday, but that call never came. 
''I'm somewhat surprised that I haven't heard from the players' asso­ciation today," Daly told The Canadian Press on Monday. 
"We broke up on Thursday and both agreed to keep the lines of com­munication open. 
He did an excellent job of coming in and presenting a different type of feel for our passing attack." 
Myerson inserted two screws in Owens' ankle and a plate on the out· side of the ankle three days after he was injured. Owens was told after surgery that he had only an outside chance of returning for the Super Bowl, which was 6 1/2 weeks away at the time. But he rehabbed vigorously, hoping to help Philadelphia win its first NFL championship since 1960. 
After a checkup last week in Baltimore, Myerson said that while he's pleased with Owens' recupera­tion, the operation requires a recovery period of eight to ·1 0 weeks. Myerson added that any attempt to accelerate the rehabilitation process poses the same risk for injury. 
Hoosiers hire former QB
coach Lynch 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Bill Lynch is returning to Indiana as an assis­tant head football coach, the school announced Monday. 
Lynch had been the Hoosiers' quar­terbacks coach in 1993-94 and was 8-2 last season as the head coach at DePauw. He also was the head coach at Ball State from 1995-2002 and Butler from 1985-90, the school said. 
Lynch, who has coached for 25 years, also will be the offensive coor­dinator/tight ends coach for the Hoosiers. Lynch, a 1977 Butler grad­uate, joins his son, Billy, who is the wide receivers coach for Indiana and his hiring completes coach Terry Hoeppner's staff. 
"First of all, I am so happy to join Coach Hoeppner's staff," Lynch said in a news release. "We have a great relationship. He's a great football coach and runs a quality program." 
Hoeppner was enthused about the addition. 
around the dial 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL Illinois at Michigan State 7 p.m., ESPN Florida at Mississippi State 8 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 
Miami at Dallas 8:30 p.m., NBA TV 


Tuesday, February I, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
League aims to avoid 'vvardrobe malfunction' 
Associated Press 
.JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -Oh, what the NFL would have given for a marching band.lnstead, it got what will forever be known as a "wardrobe malfunction," an over-so-brief shot of .Janet .Jackson's barn breast-barely diseornible at lirst, but easy to sne after the n~plays had been slowod down, digitiznd and dis­snded a hundred times over. 
In a flash, .Janet's halftime debauchery last year altered the watercooler conversation about the Super Bowl -and to an oxtent about the bigger issuns of morals and decency ­and made the powers in the NFI. realize they had failnd in their 
nnver-onding "All these people down his neck, qunst to micro­moved to the
were acting as 

manage things censor-free
though Western 

down to the mil­Sirius radio lisecond. Civilization had satellite net­"Disappointment work, the same
taken a major hit. '' 

and ern barrass­company that, rnent" was how ironically, broad­NFL spokesman Rober Thompson casts each NFL Brian McCarthy television expert game across the sored event. 
But her impact on the Super Bowl will never be forgotten ­not in this day and age of instant news, instant analysis, instant overkili.Jler breast, after all, was much more than a breast, and we're not just talk­ing about the silver sunburst nipple shield that was revealed when Justin Timberlake tore open hnr black leather top ­accidentally, he said. 
The Federal Communications Commission got involved. The debate over decency standards on TV -long considered a dying issue by all but the most vigilant -re-emerged. Radio personality Howard Stern, tired of having the FCC breathing 
described the scene and its bom­bastic aftnrrnath. 
"An unprneedented event and an unprecedented reaction," said Charles Coplin, the man thn NFL put in charge of mak­ing surn nothing like that hap­p«ms at this year's game. 
.la«~kson, who declined inter­vh~w fi\QUnsts for this story, will bo in .Jacksonville this week, attending a fund-raising party the night bnforn the big game. Clnarly, shn will be persona non-grata at any NFL-spon-
International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 

nation each 
week. 
It might be a reach, but not too big of one, to say that the Jackson imbroglio fed into the huge American debate about morals that helped shape last year's election. 
"All these people were acting as though Western civilization had taken a major hit," said Syracuse University television expert Hobert Thompson. "The whole thing was dripping in sanctimony, contradiction and hypocrisy." 
CLUB SPORTS 

Volleyball upsets Ball State 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame's men's club volleyball team competed in its first national qualifying tournament of the year at Marquette University Saturday. The Irish finished a solid 3-3 after playing a round robin in a pool boast­ing several of the Top-25 teams in the nation. 
The long day began early in the morning with a match against host Marquette (6-0) who used a clear height advantage to sweep the Irish in two games, 25-15 and 25­15. 
Notre Dame rebounded to beat Illinois State (0-6), 25­18, 25-23, but fell again in the following match to UW­Oshkosh (5-1), 25-13, 25-22. Again the Irish fought back to play an exciting match against Lakeland (5-1), but ended up losing in three games. After winning the first game, 25-13, the Irish pulled the starters and dropped the last two games, 25-16, 16-14. in Game 2. 
However, the Irish upset previously undefeated Ball State (5-1), 25-22, 25-17, handing the Cardinals their only loss of the day. Ten hours after their first match began, the Irish finished off a tired Iowa State (0-6) team looking for its first win. In Game 1, the Irish prevailing 29-27. Game 2 was not as close as the Irish dismantled the Cyclones 25-8. 
Two freshmen, setter Nolan Kane and defensive specialist Jamie Ward were inserted into the starting lineup during the tournament, and both made the most of the oppor­tunity with consistent per­formances. Mike Toomey's consistent jump serve often ignited Irish rallies by rattling the opposing teams' passing. The entire squad earned playing time. 
Men's water polo 
South Florida played host to the annual Gasparilla Invitational this weekend as Notre Dame challenged some of the best teams in the Southern region. The Irish struggled in the Friday opnn­er, dropping a 10-4 decision to eventual champion Ft. Lauderdale. Sophomore Steve Shepard and freshmen Zhan-Wei Khaw and Colin Dunn accounted for the Irish scoring. 
On Saturday, the Irish avenged a loss to Orlando in last year's tournament !'inal, with a 6-4 victory. Sophomore Jon Kelly and junior goalie Scott Tagwerker anchored a stifling defense, while Shepard, Greg Szewczyk, Mike Silhasek and Hoss Boughton keyed the attack. Next, the Irish played a physi­cal Florida International squad and found themselves down 5-2 at intermission. With Kelly, Tagwerker, fresh­men Dusty Mennella and Mike McKenna frustrating the FlU attack the second half, the Irish clawed back to take a 6-5 victory. 
The Irish concluded the tournament by dropping a 6-4 game to host South Florida in the battle for third place. Shepard, Dunn, and Jack Spittler all registered goals in the !'inale. 
The next opponents for the 
Irish will be the Hawkeye Invitational at Iowa in two weeks. 
Ski club 
The ski dub traveled to Schuss Mountain for season­opening MCSA action this weekend. 
The women's squad placed second in the slalom behind Michigan State and third in the giant slalom behind Michigan State and Michigan. In the slalom, 
Danielle Clements led the team with a sixth-place fin­ish, followed by Bita Morgan in ninth and Lindsay May in 13th. The top three finishers for the Irish in women's giant slalom were Clements in sixth, Molly Butler in seventh and Sarah Haunvenhorst in 22nd. Finishing just out of the scoring in the giant slalom were Lindsay May, 23rd; Anne Mahoney, 25th, and Lauren Dacey, 27th. 
The men finished sixth in the slalom and fifth in the giant slalom. However, the club stumbled in the slalom as captain Joe Payne fell on his second run, dropping the club two spots in the final rankings. 
Top throe men in the event were Brian !ledges, 19th, Steve Fuetz, 20th, and Andrew Breslin, 25th, with teammate Aaron Medlock just out of scoring in 27th place. Hedges and Payne took 11th and 14th respectively in the giant slalom, but teammates Leif Petterson, 31st, Brad Jollitz, 36th, Pat Leimikuchler, 39th, and Scan Glennan, 45th, were unable to keep the club in contention for a higher finish. 
MLB 
Bonds to miss ear1y spring training games 
Giants slugger had arthroscopic knee surgery Monday 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Barry Bonds is expected to miss much of spring training follow­ing arthroscopic surgery Monday on his right knee, but tho San Franeisco Giants slug­ger should recover in plenty of time to resume his chase of Hank Aaron's horne run record in April. 
The seven-time NL MVP had a "minor arthritis cleanup," the Giants said in statement. Dr. Arthur Ting also repaired a small tear in Bonds' meniscus. 
Giants trainer Stan Conte expects Bonds to return for at least the final two weeks of spring training, and the 40­year-old should be baek to full strength before opening day. 
"It's not a situation where I'm concerned for him," Conte said. "It doesn't take him long to get ready. It's good for him not to wear himself out during spring training, which he does sometimes." 
Bonds often tires of the day­to-day grind of spring training, both men tally and physically, and his rehabilitation might even provide a respite. Bonds, who had a similar surgery on his left knee in October, will begin rehab Tuesday. 
lie will report to Scottsdalo, Ariz.. along with tho Giants' pitchers and catchers on Feb. 17, but will concentrate on his six-wenk rehab program until mid-March. 
Conte said Bonds' kneos have responded well to similar arthroscopic operations and that Bonds has "a very youth­ful body for his agn." 
"lie recovers well," Conte said. "You never know when age is going to be an issue, but this surgery was not extnn­sive." 
Bonds' knee showed signs of arthritis during a similar opm­ation in 1999, but this surgery revealed less trouble than the Giants feared. Bonds lirst eorn­plained of pain in his right knee last week. 
Bonds finished last season with 703 eareer homnrs, trail­ing only Aaron (755) and Babe Huth (714). 
lie also becamn the oldest player in major league history to win an MVP award. Bonds hit .3(J2 to win his second NL batting title in three seasons. 

The University of Notre Dame 
INNSBRUCK PROGRAM 
Is accepting applications for the 2005-2006 Academic Year 
Extended application deadline: 
March 1, 2005 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/--intlstud 
Questions?-Weber.l5@nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, February 1, 2005 
SUPER BowL XXXIX 

Eagles talk, Patriots respond 

"You're always going to find one jerk out of the bunch. Just like Vanderjerk. Mike Vanderjerk," Harrison said, referring to Colts kicker Mike Vanderjagt, who earlier in the postseason suggested the Patriots were ripe for a loss. "You're always going to find one guy like that who wants some attention and wants to do some­thing to try and stir up the emo­tions ofthe game." 
Not surprisingly, Mitchell was unavailable at the Eagles' media opportunity Sunday. Also not surprisingly, coach Andy Reid tried to sidestep the inevitable questions about how he reacted when he heard what Mitchell said. 
"That's between Freddie and 1," Reid said. 
New England safety takes shot at Mitchell 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -Even without the pads on, New England safety Rodney Harrison delivered quite a blow. Asked whether he will say anything to Eagles wide receiver Freddie Mitchell, who dissect the Patriots' secondary last week, Harrison took his shot. 
"What would I say?" he said. "It's Freddie Mitchell." And with that, Super Bowl week was on. 
The Eagles and Patriots, two teams with very little history or animosity between them, opened America's big football celebration with a nice bit of trash talking Sunday at the first of the dozen or so news confer­ences that will take place during the week. 

This was Harrison's first chance on the Super Bowl stage to respond to Mitchell. Last week, the Eagles receiver said he couldn't name any of the Patriots defensive backs except for Harrison, about whom he said, "''ve got something for him." 
Harrison, who has spent much of his 11-year career playing the us-against-the-world card to anyone who would lis­
.ten, found his perfect foil in Mitchell, who let political cor­rectness take a back seat and greased the wheels for this Super Feud. 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Simien leads Jayhawks over Missouri 73-61 
Kansas overcomes double-digit second half deficit at home 
Associated Press 
LAWRENCE, Kan. -Wayne Simien had 22 points and Aaron Miles had 14 points and 10 assists, rallying third­ranked Kansas to a victory over Missouri on Monday night. 
Missouri (10-11, 2-6 Big 12) was a 19-point underdog and fell quickly behind by 10 points before going on a 20-4 run and seizing a stunning 36-28 half­time lead over the Big 12 lead­ers. 
But after shooting just 36 percent in the first half, the Jayhawks (17-1, 7-0) hit 70 percent of their shots in the first 15 minutes, 30 seconds of the second half. A 3-pointer from J.R. Giddens made it 57­54 and gave Kansas the lead for good. 
Miles, the Big 12's career assists leader, executed two picture-perfect one-handed lobs for layups by Christian Moody and Giddens during a 7­1 run that put Kansas on top 66-55 lead. 
Embattled Missouri coach 

Quin Snyder, who got the job six years ago over Bill Self when the Kansas coach was at Tulsa, fell to 3-10 against Kansas and 0-7 against Self. The Tigers have lost six of their last seven and are winless at Kansas since 1999. 
Giddens had 15 points and Keith Langford had 11 for Kansas. Jason Conley had a season-high 20 points for Missouri and Linas Kleiza, before fouling out and then adding a technical foul for arguing, had 11. 
Miles' 3-pointer put Kansas on top 24-16 and the capacity crowd settled in for an enjoy­able romp, but the Jayhawks made only four points in the last 6:48 before intermission. 
Kleiza, Missouri's leading scorer and rebounder who was held out of the starting lineup for the second straight game, muscled inside for a bucket to launch a spree that included seven points by Conley and Thomas Gardner's three-point play that gave the Tigers the lead at 26-25. 
Conley's steal and driving bucket put Missouri ahead 41­30 the first few minutes of the second half, but Miles connect­ed on two 3-pointers in Kansas' 18-6 run. 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
LSU takes No.1 spot in poll after Duke loss 
Ohio State ·ranked second after victory over Wisconsin 
Associated Press 
Duke stumbled and LSU and Ohio State were there to take advantage. LSU replaced Duke at No. 1 and Ohio State rose to second on Monday to reach the highest ranking in school histo­ry in The Associated Press women's basketball poll. 
It's the second time at the top for LSU, which was No. 1 for six weeks earlier this season. The Lady Tigers (19-1) beat Auburn 57-52 in their only game last week and received 43 of 45 first-place votes from a national media panel. 
Ohio State (21-2) received one first-place vote and so did Duke ( 20-2), which slipped to third after a 56-51 loss at North Carolina. That victory, plus two others during the week, lifted North Carolina from 12th to ninth.LSU, the nation's only Division I team with just one loss, had 1,123 points in the voting, while Ohio State had 1,052 and Duke 1,008. 
Coach Pokey Chatman's reac­tion to returning to No. 1 was similar to how she felt the first time her team got there: It's nice, but there's no time to cele­brate. 
"It's one of those things that will always be more exciting for the fans and the community than it will be for the kids and the coaching staff," Chatman said. "It's not a matter of down­playing it. It's nice to know our program has gotten to the point where it's recognized as a top program. 
"But when the dust settles, it doesn't factor in to how we're preparing for Ole Miss." 
LSU plays at Mississippi on Thursday. 
Ohio State continues to impress under coach Jim Foster, who had a long string of success at St. Joseph's and Vanderbilt before moving to Columbus in 2002. The Buckeyes had fallen from national prominence after reaching the NCAA champi­onship game in 1993, but they've now appeared in 32 of the last 43 polls. 
Foster, though, was more interested in next Sunday's game with Indiana than his program's ranking milestone. 
"To me, it's an end-of-season reflection," Foster said. "You look back. During the season, I'm just sort of about the next game. I think it's probably there for discussion, for fans to dis­cuss. But as far as the practical, day-to-day, where are you with the team, it just doesn't come into play." 
Hoad victories over Wisconsin and Illinois last week extended Ohio State's winning streak to 
10. Duke lost to North Carolina last Monday, then bounced back to beat two other Top 25 teams, Maryland and North Carolina State.This was the third change at No. 1 this season. Tennessee led the first three polls before giving way to LSU, which lost its No. 1 ranking the first time after losing at Rutgers. 


"Go and make disciples of all the nations and baptize them in the name ofthe Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit." (Mt 28: 19) 

.--------­
Tuesday, February I, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
SuPER BowL XXXIX 
Eagles, McNabb expect to rely on other receivers 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Illinois ren1ains at No.1 
Associated Press 
Illinois was No. I in The Associated Pn~ss' college. bas­ketball poll for tho ninth straight week Monday, and for tlw lirst timo tho lllini wore a unanimous ehoice. 
An impressive win at Wisconsin and a home victory ov1~r Minnesota knpt the lllini (21-0) unbealon. Unliko last wonk when they reeeived all but one lirst-plaee votes from the national media panel, the lllini wnrn No. I on all 72 bal­lots. 
They are the first unanimous No. 1 since Duke did it for nine polls in a 10-week span in 2001-02. The lllini's nine-week run at No. 1 is the longest since Connecticut was there for 10 weeks in 199S-99. 
Boston Collego (18-0). the only other unbeaten team in Division I, jumped from eighth to No. 5, the highest ranking in sehool history. 
Maryland and Villanova moved into the rankings Monday. Maryland had been out of the Top 25 for three weeks, while Villanova was in for the lirst time since 1996-97. 
Duke, which received the one No. 1 vote that lllinois didn't last week, fell from the ranks of the unbnaten. 
Boston College, which stayed unbeaten with wins over Providence and Georgetown last week, was ranked sixth. 
Slz~Iene (Sizzlelini®)­On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95!
S.in·· 
Asizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented
Bellini 

with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti.
Tuesdays B::>-}efie (Bellini) ­A frosty, peach Italian work of art for $2! Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­
Visit us EVERY Tuesday for 
lunch or dinner to celebrate 

~;·--------------­
..~· 
·' ~ress 

INVILLE, Fla. -It was 
s1 tl: Bring in T.O. and 
\\· \ ~ offense soar. 

worked so well for the 
F \ , Jhia Eagles that their 
o de receivers barely got '""'-.iee -from the media ~ven from Donovan .bb, who connected with :II Owens 77 times through (ames. The other regular ly wideouts had 75 eatehes 

'.ttnred among them. 

l'hen Owens injured his ankle 
1 broke his leg. Suddenly, it ~:~ all about Freddie Mitehell, 
J'odd Pinkston and Greg Lewis, 
hardly an all-star array. 

Not that it should matter. The 
New England Patriots, who face 
the Eagles in Sunday's Super 
Bowl, don't have any All-Pros 
running pass routes. They have 
a solid corps of receivers and 
each contributes almost equally 
to an effective passing attack 
led by quarterback Tom Brady. 
"To us, it's like we have four, five guys who can do the job," 
said one of those guys. third­year pro Deion Branch. "Any one of us can break it open." 
The Eagles hope they will have a relatively healthy Owens to be their gamobreaker in their first Super Bowl appearance in 24 years. lin practiced with the team Monday for the lirst time since the injury. 
But Owens ligun~s to be limit­ed, placing extra emphasis on the contributions of tho other reeeivers, who have done rea­sonably well in this postseason. 
While adding some T.O. to the lineup would be a boost, Philadelphia's success in the air more likely will revolve around his supporting east. 
The no-star approach has worked for the Patriots, of course, so why not for the Eagles? 
"lie did make some big plays for us," McNabb said, referring to Owens, who seornd 14 touch­downs and turned a mediocre group into a dynamic threat. "I did what I had to do to try to make sure we're all in a good position, and he did an nxenl­lnnt job of' eoming in and pre­smiting a difTornnt type of f'nPI for our passing attack. Thn rnst of' tho guys have lnarrwd a little bit l'rom him." 
Tlwy showed that in playol'l' victories ovnr Minnesota and Atlanta, linally gnt.ting over tho NFC dwmpionship ganw hump. Mitdwll nxenllnd against tlw Vikings, scoring twke. Lewis. who has emerged as a denp threat, had a 52-yard reception against Minnesota and a 45­yarder vs. Atlanta. 
!'hilly's guys, aside l'rom Owens, havnn't come elosn to thosn numbers. Yet they snom to gnt more attention in Owens' absence than Now 1\ngland's rngulars have rncoivnd in gml­eral. 
A l'ully healthy Ownns ­dream on, !'hilly -might be tho right playnr to undrnss the Patriots' undermanned sncond­ary. Then agairt, Indianapolis' three 1.000-yard receivers worn invisible in a 20-:~ loss at Nnw England. 
MLB 

Sosa trade gets union approval 
Trade likely to be finalized between Cubs and Orioles 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -The trade that would send Sammy Sosa from the Chieago Cubs to the Baltimore Orioles took a slep forward Monday when the players' association approved a key change to his contract that is required to complete the deal. _, 
Chicago would receive Jerry Hairston Jr. and a pair of minor leaguers, second base­man Mike Fontenot and right­handed pitcher Dave Crouthers, in exchange for Sosa and $12 million. The trade is likely to be finalized Thursday or Friday. 
Sosa's contract currently contains a provision that calls for the team's $18 million option for 2006 to become guaranteed if he is traded and for a $19 million team option for 2007 to be added, one that would carry a $4.5 million buyout. As part of the trade, Sosa will sign an addendum to his contract voiding that pro­vision. 
Commissioner Bud Selig also must approve the trade because more than $1 million will change hands in the swap, which the teams put in motion Friday night. The teams start­ed the process of submitting documents outlining the trade to the commissioner's office, but all the necessary paper­work had not been sent in as of Monday night. 
To replace some of Sosa's power, the Cubs were in nego­tiations with free-agent out­fielder Jeromy Burnitz. 
Baltimore would pay just $5 million of Sosa's $17 million salary this year, with the Cubs paying $12 million. The Orioles would assume respon­sibility for the 2006 option, which Baltimore would be able to buy out for $4.5 mil­lion. 

In addition, Chicago would remain responsible for the $3.5 million severance pay called for in Sosa's contract, which must be given to the seven-time All-Star within 30 days after the trade is final­ized. The Cubs would wind up paying $61.5 million of the $72 million Sosa was guaran­teed in the four-year deal, with the Orioles paying $9.5 million. · 
Hairston took his physical Monday in the Phoenix area, but Sosa might not take his until Thursday. 
The Cubs and Orioles did not include a 72-hour window for a contract extension. The 36­year-old outfielder has agreed to waive his right to block the trade and will go to· the Orioles without an extension. 
After the deal is done, Baltimore might try to negoti­ate a new contract with Sosa. 
Selig has twice approved larger salary transfers. Texas agreed last February to send the Yankees $67 million over seven seasons in the trade that sent Alex Hodriguez to New York for All'sono Soriano. 
In November 2002, Selig 

approved the Mike Hampton, three-team trade, which involved $30 million ­Colorado agreed to send Florida $6.5 million over thrne years, and the Marlins agreed to send that money plus an additional $23.5 million over three years to Atlanta, which received the pitcher. 
The money in the Sosa trade tops the other two big deals Selig approved this winter: The Yankees are paying Arizona $9 million in the trade that brought Handy Johnson to New York and Los Angeles is paying $10 million in tho deal that sent Shawn Green to the Diamondbaeks. 
Sosa hit .253 last year, his lowest average since 1997, and had 35 homers and SO HB!s in 126 games. llis 574 homers rank seventh on the career list. 
While Cubs fans supported him after he used a corked bat in 2003, he was booed last year, when he had a back injury. Then he lnft the ball­park during the linal regular­season game last October after the Cubs had blown a wild-card lead over the 11nal week, and criticized manager Dusty Baker. 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, February 1, 2005 
Hockey 

continued from page 20 
seen six goals scored on Notre Dame netminders Sunday, pre­maturely turned on the red light after a Bowling Green for­ward attempted a shot on a Falcons power play -even though the shot was well wide of the net. 
If it wasn't apparent before, i.t is now. Everyone associated with the Notre Dame hockey team is frustrated. 
"I think this is [the most frus­trating season of my tenure,]" Irish coach Dave Poulin said after Saturday night's 6-2 loss to Bowling Green. "My first few seasons we didn't have the depth of talent that we have now. I just haven't seen a single thing go our way. It's been remarkable. 
"You just have to keep telling them that something good is going to happen." 
Perhaps the most frustrating thing about this season has been that it followed the most successful year in Notre Dame history. Last season, led by a six-member senior class, the Irish advanced to the NCAA tournament for the first time in the program's history. 
Coming into this season, it was expected the Irish would be unable to match their perform­ance from the 2003-04 cam­paign. But it's safe to say nobody thought things would be this bad. 
Notre Dame is currently 5-18­5 overall and just 3-13-4 in the CCHA. The Irish are in danger of posting their worst record ever during Poulin's 10-year tenure -the previous worst finish was 9-25-1 in Poulin's second season. 
Perhaps no one has been more frustrated by the team's play this season than Cey, who came into the Irish spotlight as a freshman and helped engi­neer his team's first-round CCHA playoff upset of Nebraska-Omaha. 
Since then, Cey has been in the net for nearly every one of Notre Dame's big games-he has started twice at Joe Louis Arena in the CCHA Super Six and was in net for the team's first-ever NCAA tournament game against defending cham­pion Minnesota last season. 
The senior has continued his status as one of the top goalies in the CCHA, but those stats have hot translated into wins this season, and that is what frustrates him most of all according to Poulin. 
"lie's been able to come out in a game like that in the past and shut them out." Poulin said of Cey's performance Saturday. "That's what he as a goalie expects to do, and even though the first two goals were goals with an empty net and weren't really his fault, it was still frus­trating to him. 

"He's a senior and he wants to win, and that's the real frustrat­ing part for him is the losing." 
The Irish can still finish the season on a high note, and per­haps maybe even engineer a similar road upset in the first round of the CCHA playoffs like they did in Cey's first season with the team. 
But that doesn't change the fact this has been one of the most frustrating and disap­pointing seasons in Irish histo­ry. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd. edu 
Buck 
continued from page 20 

serve, Coetzee fell 6-1, 6-1 at No. 2 singles. 
Coetzee had been a 2004 NCAA Singles Championship qualifier last year and has been ranked as high as No. 10 during her career. Last season, Coetzee, who hails from South Africa, was the runner-up in last fall's ITA Southeast Championships. 
Surrendering just a pair of games to Coetzee on Sunday, Buck improved her record to 4-1 this season against ranked oppo­nents. Ranked No. 85 in the nation, Buck has already defeat­ed No. 37 Dora Vastag of Indiana, No. 93 llala Sufi of Purdue and No. 95 Elizabeth Exon of Michigan. I Ier only loss this transition from the national level to the college level seems to have been a smooth one. 
Buck, who hails from Yukon, Okla., conditioned herself for the high level of play while in high school. At one point in her high school career, Buck was No. 1 in the 16-and-under United States Tennis Association rankings. 
Additionally, Buck won three national doubles titles, collecting wins in the Winter National Championships, the Spring Supernational Championships and the Supernational Hardcourt Championships. By her junior year, Buck also had three state championship titles to her name at No. 1 singles in class 3A. 
Despite the tough competition she has faced throughout her career, Buck admits she is still 
intimidated taking 
on ranked players. 

season came But Buck views
"She's proven that.

against No. 1 this sense of appre­Christelle Grier of she can play with hension as an Northwestern. almost anyone." advantage. 
With each meet, "It's always good Buck continues to to be a little intimi­
Jay Louderback

impress both her dated going into a coach and team­match," Buck said.
Irish coach 

mates as an equally strong player in doubles as in singles. 
Against Wake Forest on Sunday, Buck and junior Lauren Connelly also clinched the dou­bles point for the Irish with an 8-1 victory at No. 2 over Katie Martzolf and Danielle Schwartz. Coach Jay Louderback said the duo's success this season and impressive record of 14-4 came as no surprise. 
"They are both very hard workers in practice," Louderback said. "Brook is starting to eome to the net more and she's becoming an aggres­sive player, which is especially important at the college level." 
Louderback added Buck's 

"It makes everyone 
excited to play and when you upset a ranked team, it means a lot more to the team." 
Buck added she anticipates the challenges other ranked opponents will bring this season. Based on what he has seen from Buck, Louderback believes she will weather those challenges with the same poise she has dis­played all season. 
"She's proven that she can play with almost anyone," Louderback said. "We're looking forward to seeing what she can do." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
Kessler 
continued from page 20 
said. "Once you've gotten used to [making free-throw shots] in practice . . . there are no nerves in the game. You just shoot." 
Kessler will enter Wednesday night's game at Calvin College ranked ninth in the nation for Division-III free-throw accuracy. 
Actually, her percentage has dropped 1.5 points in the past week. 
In a rare spat, the well-com­posed freshman missed free throws in consecutive games last week after connecting on 19 in a row. She had climbed to No. 2 in the nation after hitting all eight of her attempts in Saint Mary's Jan. 19 win over Kalamazoo, but she has since "stumbled" ­missing two of her last 10. Despite the mild dip, Kessler is connecting on 88.3 percent of her attempts from the stripe. 
Throughout the season, she has steadily increased her attempts from the line. 
After beginning the season on the bench, Kessler broke out against Manchester Nov. 23, scoring 13 points and hitting all nine of her free-throw attempts in the second half. 
Her 12-point performance against Anderson Dec. 9 fur­thered her development, and she made her first collegiate start against Hope Jan. 8. 
Kessler made that start and has since replaced injured senior guard Katie Boyce in the Belles starting lineup. 
Making the most of her increased court time, Kessler has played aggressively, driving to the hoop more and drawing 42 foul shots -and making 36 -in those six games. For the year, Kessler has made 68 of. 77 attempts. 
She gives credit to coach 
Suzanne Bellina's praetices for her impressive results. Kessler said she has been so consistent because "we shoot 10 before every practice and record the makes. Then, after each inten­sive drill, we shoot more free throws. It get<; us game ready ... for when we're tired [late in a game]." 
However, it is not just from the line where she is helping the Belles to their best season in recent memory. Kessler is sec­ond on the team -and 12th in the MlAA -in steals. What's more, the 5-foot-7 guard leads tho Belles in offensive rebounds 
(2.3 per game) and ranks ninth in the conference. 
Kessler played high-school ball at New Prairie High School in LaPorte, where she hit just under 80 percent of her free throws and played everything from point guard to power for­ward. 
Among all freshmen, she ranks fourth in scoring in the league at just under nine points per game. 
For free-throw inspiration, she looks to junior Tennessee guard and Syracuse, Ind. native Shanna Zolman. 
"I look up to her especially because she's from Indiana and is doing so well," Kessler said. 
However, the student may have passed the teacher -Zolman is shooting 86.8 percent from the foul line this year -a point and a half behind Kessler. 
The Division-III record for career free-throw percentage is 
85.3 (minimum of 250 made) by Megan Woodruff of Wilmington (Ohio). 
However, Kessler will not worry about that any time soon. 
''I'm not going to think about it night-to-night-I'm just going to go shot-by-shot," she said. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

ing process, which included con­I know we can achieve that ducting interviews alongside his goal," Kubinski said in a release.
Kubinski 

teammates of the final four Before his coaching career, continued from page 20 coaching choices. Kubinski, who has been a mem­"We got to give our opinion ber of the PGA since 1999, was 
season. Because of these [on coaching candidates]," Isban a three-time letterman and two­accomplishments, he was nomi­said. "We didn't have a large time team captain at Springfield nated for the 2004 Golf Coaches' say, but we were (Mass.) College, Association of America (GCAA) kept enlightened as and is a 1993 Assistant Coach of the Year to what was going "It's good to have graduate of the award. on [in the hiring college.
everything settled 

Members of the Irish squad process]." With the 
so we can focus on

have expressed satisfaction at Entering his first coaching issue the decision to hire Kubinski. head-coaching job, the golf" resolved in "He comes from a pretty sto­Kubinski comes to Kubinski, the ried program, and he knows the Irish with a Irish can now
Cole lsban 

how to win," sophomore Cole desire to succeed focus on what
Irish golfer 

Isban said. both on and off the comes next. 
As part of a subcommittee of golf course. "This [hiring] is Irish golfers with senior co-cap­"It's my desire to make Notre definitely a unifying piece for tain K.C. Wiseman and team­Dame a top-10 program on a us," Isban said. "It's good to mates including junior Scott year in, year out basis, both on have everything settled so we Gustafson and freshman Greg the golf course and in the class­can focus on the golf." Rodgers, Isban worked actively room," Kubinski said. "That's alongside the hiring committee what Notre Dame expects and Contact Eric Retter at and the athletic office in the hir-what Notre Dame deserves, and eretter@nd.edu 
Recruits 
continued from page 20 
Mich. will have the opportuni­ty to throw to a couple of receivers in D.J. 1-Iord and David Grimes. 1-Iord is arguably the most highly-touted of the Irish verbals. The Kansas City native was named Missouri Gatorade Player of the Year while making 36 receptions for 560 yards and six touchdowns his senior year at Rockhurst Jesuit High School. Scout.com lists him the 12th­best receiver in the nation. 
Two Scout.com four-star offensive linemen, Paul Duncan and Michael Turkovich, have verbally committed to the Irish. Duncan rejected offers from both LSU and Oklahoma before choosing Notre Dame. He is expected to play offensive tackle after playing both tackle and tight end in high school and is listed at 6-foot-6, 288-pounds. 

Hoping to avoid the secondary problems that plagued them last season, the Irish have picked up verbal commitments from four defensive backs. Cornerback Kyle McCarthy is expected to sign Wednesday along with three safeties -Ray Herring, David Bruton and Kevin Washington. 
Hounding out the probable defensive signees are defensive tackles Derrell Hand and Patrick Kuntz and linebacker Scott Smith. On the offensive side Asaph Schwapp is the only fullback verbal commitment while Joey Hiben is expected to sign with the Irish as a tight end. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 


------------, 
Tuesday, Pebruary I, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
ALICE, DID YOU CALL THE DIRECTOR OF HUMAN RESOURCES A "FURRY LOG"? 

PEANUTS 
DO YOU HAVE TO 
04EW SO LOUD 
WHEN YOU EAT? 

r-------------------------~ur-------------------------,
.5 

WHICH  
IS IT?  ITS TEAM­ 
WORK.YOU  
SQUIRREL­ 
INFESTED  
STUMP.  
)  

CHARLES SCHULZ  
YOU'RE DRIPPING MILK ALL OVER  YOU TOOK ALL Tf.JE SUGAR AGAIN! YOU  GOOD MORNING .  
YOUR SHIRT...  NEVER REFILL THE BOWL!  

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon

JJWM!illl1ffi 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RACHI ~ 
[] [] 
<02005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
,~,~~fl 
RUFLYR j 


WHAT THE: ?UI<­[] [ G>EON TUI<NE:D INTO AT THE:
www.jumble.com 
ANNUAL. I<OA?T.
tYUIRPT t 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I J I J I 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 

A rI I I ] rI I Jm 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: AGLOW GLADE AMAZON DONKEYYesterday's I 
Answer: What he ended up with when he ate all the doughnuts-A "GLAZED" LOOK 
CROSSWORD  WILL SHORTZ  
ACROSS  30 G.l.'s mail drop  63 Actor famously  
1 Headquartered 6 "Zounds!"  31 Opposite of sud 33 Aggressive,  connected to many other actors  
1oLinks numbers  personalitywise  66 Canadian gas  
14 "Goodnight" girl  37 Sticks up  brand  
of song  39 An absence of  67 Sign from above  
15 Six Flags attraction 16 Pull a sulky, perhaps 17 She appeared in "Thelma &  musical skill 42 Layered do 43 Quarterback's ploy 45 Writer Harte  68 Not straight 69 Marsh plant 70 Woods plant 71 Not o'er  
Louise" with 24-Across  47 Iron or gold source  DOWN 1 Megapropor­ 
19 Top of the heap 20 Say "cheese," say 21 Cut and paste 23 Bard's "always" 24 She appeared in "The Witches  48 Bonny one 51 Unrestricted, as mutual funds 53 He appeared in "A Few Good Men" with 63-Across  tioned 2 Mars, to the Greeks 3 Appears 4 "Annales" poet Quintus 5 Buys and sells  
of Eastwick" with 53-Across 27 Wide of the  57 Big bird 58 Bounce back  6 Mound stat 7 "What ?!" 8 Nike rival  
plate 59 Storage spot 29 Hospital fluids 61 Ankara native ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  9 Hanker for 10 School org. 11 Rainbow­shaped 12 Star-crossed  35 Be worthy of 36 Got mellower 38 Polio vaccine developer  46 Antinuclear treaty 49 Fed up with 50 Hatch a plot  55 Say"@#$%!" 56 Hang like a hummingbird 60 Stallion-to-be  
-:::t-:+:::+:=+:::-i .-~-:+.~:rl li(tll~E~···1!!1 •-:-t~;::-111111-:;:+;:;+:::+;~t;:-f  lover of fiction 13 Violinist Isaac 18 Exactly right22 Lip-puckering 25 "Quo Vadis?"  40 Suffix with buck 41 Map out again 44 Classic Welles role  52 Represent with symbols 53 Shortstop Derek 54 Elicit a chuckle from  62 Down for the count 64 Overnight spot 65 Ultimate degree  
emperor  

26 Second half of For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a a vote credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
27 Propels a shell 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
28 Well-versed in 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,00032 Society girl past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). .;,.;+-::+±::-i 34 Tyre's ancient Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young land solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City _________ State ____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS DAY: Justin Timberlake, 24; Minnie Driver. 35; Portia de Rossi. 32; Richard Gephanlt, 64 
Happy Birthday: There is plenty to he done this year if you want to make up for the time you've lost the past several years. Much can he accomplished. anJ the help you need to get your ideas off the ground will he there. Everyone has been waiting for you to pick yourself up and do your own thing. You have a fabulous imagination and an incredibly inventive mind that musl he orchestrated this year. Your numbers are 3, 6. 17, 22, 28. 35 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): The chance to get ahead is present. Do whatever you can to show your talents. Someone will recognize your worth and help you. Being passive will lead to missed opportunities. *** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): There is no time to waste. Take aggressive action when it comes to making money. The job you do today wi II set Ihe standard for future projects. A confident attitude will go a long way. *** GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): You should he able to show everyone how cflicienl and reliable you can he. You will have no trouble initiating what it is you wanl to pursue. A partnership will develop into something special. ***** CANCER (June 21-.)uly 22): You will he indecisive, hut that's not a bad lhing. You are likely to make the wrong choices if you do move forward with something or someone. Be a little secretive. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your outgoing, dynamic way of approaching business will win you points today. Travel and communication arc in a high cycle, so don't hesitate to ask for favors or start something new. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): If you can envision something, you can make it a reality. Your imagination coupled with good work ethics will he all that's required to see matters through to the end. Romance is prominent. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will find yourself in an awkward posilion if you are too headstrong. Overreacting will nol win you favors or help you finish what you start. Stick to what you know and do well. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will have a lot riding on the choices you make and the things you do today. Be confident and you will get the interest and the hacking you need in order to move forward. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will make an impn:ssion on someone who is interested in the same goals as you. Stick 10 your plans and you will succeed. A new relationship will inspire you to try new things. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.lan. 19): As much as you would like to he in charge, today is .Dot the day to force your authority on others. Rely on your own abilities and refrain from giving orders. Discord is apparent. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 1!!): The infonnation you receive will help you make a very important choice regarding your future and whom you spend it with. Opportunities to get involved in something good arc present. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Someone unusual will brighten your day. Doing things to make your home more comfortable or pleasing will have a huge impacl on the way you feel. Expecl to receive a gift. *** 
Birthday Baby: You have everything you need to be successful. popular and in demand. You arc bright, miiculate, inventive and. most of all. willing to do what's required of you to reach your goals. 
Check out Eugenia's Weh sites at a.\·troath•ice.com and <'llfi<'llialast.com. 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
.. '' 
' 

r 
i 
I 
THE OBSERVER
I 
' 
I PORTS
Tuesday, February 1, 2005 page 20 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Weis' first signing class nearly complete 
Wilson and Lorig remain top undecided prospects for Irish 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
Charlie Weis' first recruiting class as head coach is almost 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
set. 

Wednesday is National Signing Day, and Notre Dame has 14 verbal commitments ready to formally commit. There are also a handful of undecided players that have Notre Dame on their final lists and should announce their intentions tomorrow. 
The highest-profile undecided Irish recruit is Lawrence Wilson. One of the top defensive end prospects in the nation, Wilson decommitted from the Irish after the firing of Tyrone Willingham but now has his 
· choices trimmed down to Notre Dame and Ohio State. "It's hard to say where he'll go," Mike Frank of lrisheyes.com said. "It's about 50/50. He keeps battling back and forth between Ohio State and Notre Dame." 
The other two uncommitted recruits that Notre Dame has a shot at are tight end Erik Lorig and offensive lineman Brian Roche. Roche has narrowed his choice down to Louisville and Notre Dame, but Frank believes the Irish will more than likely sign the 6-foot-5, 280-pound offensive tackle. 
"I think Notre Dame has a really good chance at him," 

Irish view Buck as their cornerstone 
Freshman holds a 4-1 record against ranked opponents this year 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
Freshman Brook Buck is quickly becoming a cornerstone on the No. 21 Notre Dame team. 
And with good reason. 
"She hits the ball so hard. She's fearless," sophomore Christian Thompson said. "If you hit any ball down the center of the court, she'll hit it back for a winner." 
No. 16 Karin Coetzee of Wake Forest was on the receiving side of Buck's volleys Sunday. Overwhelmed by Buck's potent 
see BUCK/page 18 


Courtesy ot Notre Dame Sports lniormatiOn Freshman Brook Buck connects on a return in a match during the fall season. Buck plays No. 2 sin­gles for the Irish and defeated No. 16 Karin Coetzee of Wake Forest on Sunday. 
MEN'S GOLF 

Kubinski earns head coaching position 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
For the 14 members of the Irish golf team, the long wait is finally over. 
The school announced Friday it had named for­mer Duke assistant Jim Kubinski as the new head coach 

of the Irish, Kubinski ending close to a two-month ordeal for the team that began when then­head coach John Jasinski resigned for personal reasons on Dec. 7. 

Kubinski becomes just the sixth coach in the 76-year histo­ry or the program, ending a year-and-a-half long tenure assisting both the men's and women's squads at Duke. During this time he helped lead the men's team to No. 13 rank­ing in the Golfweek polls and played a large part in the lady Blue Devils' third-place finish in 2004 and their rise to the top of the polls at the close of the fall 
see KUBINSKI/page 18 
Frank said. "lie really likes coach Weis." 
Lorig is rated the eighth-best tight end in the nation and will choose between Notre Dame and Stanford. 
or the 14 verbal commit­ments, Evan Sharpley is the lone quarterback. The Scout.com four-star player from Marshall, 
see RECRUITS/page 18 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Kessler relies on the line 
First-year player makes over 88 percent of her free throws 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Free throws are the ones she knows she can make and the ones she practices most. 
For Alison Kessler, it's that sim­ple. "It's definitely mental," Kessler 
see KESSLER/page 18 
HOCKEY 

leers frustrated with poor season 
Frustration has already reached its peak. 
It was apparent when goalie Morgan Cey was pulled after letting in his fifth goal Saturday 
night against Bowling Green, and the usually­quiet senior netminder tossed his helmet and 


pads angrily Justin Schuver into the tun­nel before Associate entering the Sports Editor team's bench. 
It was apparent when mem­bers of the Irish fan base, fed up with watching their team fail to produce on offense yet again, started an impromptu chant 

Observer 

deriding Notre Dame's head goal judge, after already having coach. It was apparent when the see HOCKEY/page 18 


MEN'S NCAA BBAU.
MLB 

SUPER BOWL XXXIX 
WOMEN'S NCAA BBALL 
MLB 
Sosa trade takes 

Illinois remains 
Eagles are New England's 
LSU takes No. 1 
Bonds undergoes 
a step forward 

No. 1 in AP poll 
lool<ing to their Harrison responds 
spot in AP poll 
knee surgery 
The players' associa­

other receivers The Patriot's safety 
tion approved a change 

The Illini received all 
Receivers Freddie Rodney Harrison reacts 
The Tigers rose to the 
He is expected to miss 
in his contract, which is 

72 first place votes. 
Mitchell, Todd Pinkston to comments made by 
top spot after previous 
most of spring training 
a requirement to com­

and Greg Lewis will be the Eagle's Freddie 
No. 1 Duke lost to 
for recovery. 
plete the deal with the 

key to the Eagles pass­Mitchell last week. 
North Carolina last 
Orioles. 
ing game. 
week. 
page 17 
page 17 

page 17 page 16 
page 16 
page 15 
t'. 
' ' 



