
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Fencing team spears national championship 
Irish overcorne deficit to claim NCAA title for second time in three years 
By ERIC RETTER 
Nl'ws Writer 
IIOUSTON -Going into the biggest tournament of the sea­son. sophornorn sabre Valerio l'rovitlnnza got sick. 
"On Thursday I got really sick and had to go to the hospital. I had food poisoning and a virus infnetion," l'rovidnnza said. "ll's definitely taken my game hack a coupln of notches." 
Dnspitn that elaim, l'rovidnnza porformnd nxtrnnwly wnJJ at this ynar's NC/\1\ fnneing championships, going 1<J-4 in the round robin -ineluding a IJ-0 tear on Sunday that helped the Irish turn what was a 24-point dPikil Saturday morning into a 2-poinl victory by Sunday after­noon -as they edged rival Ohio State 1B-171 atop the tnain standing. Behind them, perennial contenders St. John's and Penn Stale finished with respective scores of 162 and 145. 
Providenza was among six Notre Dame fencers, two men and four women, to place in the top four of the round robin and advance to the medal rounds. Providenza joined sen­ior foilist i\licja Kryczalo, soph­omore epeeist Amy Orlando and freshman sabre Marini Zagunis as tho women's repre­sentatives, while senior epeeist Michal Sobieraj and sophomore sabre Patrick Ghattas advanced from the men's team. 
llowever, the Irish met with some struggles in the champi­onships, as only Sobieraj emerged as an individual champion, defeating Wayne State's Marek Petraszek 15-13 in tho linals to cap his career with a title. 
Providenza finished fourth, falling in the semil'inals to eventual champion Emily Jacobsen of Columbia by a score of 15-13 before losing the bronze medal bout to Siobhan Byrne of Ohio Slate 15-11. Zagunis, who boat Byrne 15-5 in the semifinals, lost to Olympic teammate Jacobsen by the margin of 15-11. 
Ghattas advanced as a four seed, then upset top seed Franz Boghicev of Penn State 15-10 
see CHAMPS/page 4 

Notre Dame Sports Information Senior Allcja Kryczalo, left, battles Ohio State's Hanna Thompson at the 2005 national championships In Houston Sunday. 
Bouts organizers predict earnings of $100,000 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
A~sisrant News Editor 

Celebrating the 75th anniver­sary of the Bengal Bouts, alum­ni boxers gathered this week­end and looked on as the Notre Dame Boxing Club gave birth to 11 new "million dollar babies" at Saturday night's final rounds. 
Well, $100,000 babies, at least. 
Through a combination of fundraising techniques ­Bengal Bouts alumni donations as well as the sale of tickets, program advertising and mer­chandise-the dub has raised a preliminary amount of $75,000. However, Pat Farrell, Bengal Bouts coach and chair of the alumni reunion commit­teo for this year's bouts, said he "has no doubt" that the final total will exceed $100,000. 
That's a long way from the 1931 donation of $500. Considering that in recent years the dub usually donates 
see BOUTS/page 4 
-------·:.========================================================================== SMC student leaders travel to Middle East 
Center for Women in Intercultural Leadership sends ?tudents, faculty members to conference 

By LISA GALLAGHER 
Nl'WS Writer 
With tho sponsorship of' the Cnntnr for Women in lntPreultural Lnadnrship (CWII.), two Saint Mary's facul­ty mmnbers and four students attmHI!~d tho first student lmtd­Prship eonference in the Middle East March 14 through 16. 
The Women as Global Leaders Conference invited over 1,000 women from 41 countries to Dubai, United Arab Emirates to partieipate in the historic gathering promot­ing women to take charge. 
i\s mern bors of the InterCultural living community and through participation in dialogues on campus with Sister Marianne Farina, a CWIL fellow and director of research and scholarship at SMC, the four Saint Mary's stu­dents wore invited in December to attend the con­ference. 
Senior Veronica Fri.tz and junior Carolyn Madison, both accounting majors, Asma Quddoura, a sophomore psy­chology major and Angela 
Johnston, a junior philosophy and religious studies major, all attended. 
Planned over the course of only five months, the confer­ence was hosted by Zayed University. 
"By hosting tho conference, Zayed University aims to build bridges connecting the emerg­
see LEADERS/page 6 
Alu:mnae 111eetfor sum111it 
Saint Mary's grads discuss leadership 
By ANGELA SAOUD Senior Stall· Writer 

Nearly 150 Saint Mary's alumnae gathernd on nun­pus during the weekend to attend "Tho Leader in You" leadership confnrencn ­which was so popular, tho audience readwd maximum rapacity. 
Thn eonference focusml on leadership in all aspncts of Saint Mary's grads' livt~s and looknd at both profes­sional and personal aspects of lnadership. Thn eonfnr­nnce hosted an array of events and workshops including reeognizing per­sonal leadership pot1~ntial, leading Saint Mary's into future successes and twnn attending Friday night's Midnight Madness event. 
Co-coordinators Sarah Belanger Earley (Class of 1971) and Karen Zagroeki McDonald (Class of' 197h) said they worn thrilled with the outpouring of voluntonrs and attendees. 
"Wn opnnnd this confer­ence t.o all alumnan by plae­ing ads in The Courinr and by sending targeted mail­ings," 1\arley said. "This is the Jirst year wn' d ofl'ernd a eonfen~nce of this naturn, and wn were amazed with the fabulous response wn 
see ALUMNAE/page 4 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, March 21,, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 


You can be Latin too 
Its not about you not being Latin, its how you express it. 
Perfect words to describe Latin Expressions. Never heard of it? Well, I'm glad you asked. 
Each year, dur­
ing Spring Vis  Lukas Mendoza  
Weekend, a show  
is put on that highlights the  Photographer  
many talents that  
can be found on  

this campus. If you are wondering if this is a shameless plug, then you would be correct. I can't help it though, I happen to be in the show. 
But first, Latin Expressions allows people to show their Latin side. From the music to the lan­guage, everything in the show is distinctly Latin. And it ranges from all of Latin America, and Spain too, the origin of the culture that domi­nates south of the US border, and heck, many parts of this country too. You will love the thing that is Latin Expressions. I haven't meet one person yet who has not been satisfied with the show. Not only Latinos perform in the show, as you will see when you go check out the show. 
With prospective students coming to see the show, the university also shows a side of itself that some­times isn't clearly seen. That of the diversity that does exist here. I used to believe that the minority students were only that, a minority that didn't do much at all. I believed that all the way up until last year's show. I realized that there is so much for minority stu­dents, in clubs and organizations, in activities that go on and in cele­brations that are thrown. That is the beauty of this show. No matter what your background is, you can perform in the show. The only thing is that it has to be Latin in some way. I know a few non-latin people who can shake their "bon-bon." The best part of all of these things are that everyone is welcome. 
Having said that, I'm glad I'm a part of the minority students body here, but that doesn't mean if you aren't a minority, you can't be a part of these things. Evidence of this is in Latin Expressions and in the Fashion Show ti")at is the night after. And it also doesn't mean that you can't go to the show. 
Come see traditional Mexican dancing, music from different artists throughout Latin America, traditional Spanish dancing, mod­ern dancing to Latin music, origi­nal poems written by our peers and· a closing act that will blow you away. 
So remember, April 1, 7 p.m., Palais Royale, downtown South Bend. 
That night, everyone is a Latino. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Lukas Mendoza at mmendoz4@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a production error, Lt. Greg Deitchley's name was spelled incorrectly in a pull quote on page 4 in the March 18 edition ofThe Observer. The Observer regrets this error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO DO YOU PREDICT TO WIN THE NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT? 



Ava Collins  Kimberly Barnett  Leif Petterson  
senior off-campus  senior off-campus  junior off-campus  
"Whoever beat Kansas. I don't know who that  "UNC, because I used to go there."  "Notre Dame -oops!"  
was but they're gonna win!"  


Surfers grab world record with group surf outing 
CANBERRA, Australia ­More than 40 surfers cruised into the record books Saturday when they successfully rode a giant surfboard off an Australian beach, breaking the previ­ous world record set by an English team of 14 people in 2003. 
More than 5,000 people gathered Saturday to watch riders conquer the 40-foot­long, 10-foot-wide board, newspapers reported. The board, created by board shaper Nev Hyman, arrived by semitrailer. More than 20 people carried it to the 
TODAY 
a:: 


Mike Spencer Pete VanDeventer Tom Martin 
senior freshman freshman Siegfried Keough Siegfried 
"I believe in '1llinois, "University of miracles, so go because the Big Wisconsin, Bucknell." 1 o is known to because they pay their took down BC athletes best. " tonight." 



Could it be ... Satan? A cen­tral Indiana pet shop owner says a turtle that was the only animal to survive an October fire has developed an image of Satan's face on its shell. 
Bryan· Dora says it looks like the devil wants us to know that he was there. 
Dora says he can see a goatee and a pair of pointy horns on the shell of the palm-sized red-eared slider turtle named Lucky. 
He says Lucky is healthy and its behavior hasn't changed. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
surf. 

The riders at the Queensland state tourist city, Gold Coast, where the Quiksilver and Roxy Pro· surf competitions were held, included pro surfers Chris Ward of California and Australian champion Danny Wills. 
Newspaper reports of how many riders took part ranged from 44 to 47. 
Hyman said the four­minute ride to shore was worth the monthlong effort to build the board. 
Devil appears on turtle's shell 
MICHIGANTOWN, Ind.­
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
1.&.1 
::::t: 
~ 
1.&.1 
~ 
..... 
c( 
(.) 






0 

..... HIGH 41 HIGH HIGH HIGH 
LOW 28 LOW LOW LOW 
35 20 
46 33 

41 28 

IN BRIEF 

Dr. Josette Bijou, minister of health of the Republic of Haiti, will deliver the keynote address today in a symposium entitled "FIRST STEPS: Eliminating Filariasis in Haiti." The speech will begin at 4 p.m. in McKenna Hall auditorium. 
The Kroc Institute is spon­soring a conference today entitled "The Ethics of Exit: The Morality of Withdrawal from Iraq," which will be tele­vised live from Fordham University in the Hesburgh Center. It will run from 9 a.m. to 4:15p.m. 
MIT prefesoor e·meritus Gary Marx will make a pres­entation today on surveillance and society in an age of high technology called "Windows into the Soul." It will take place in 131 DeBartolo Hall at 4:30 p.m. and is sposored by the Science, Technology and Values Program. 
Yale professor Gerhard Bowering will give a lecture entitled "Islam and Christianity: Clashes of Culture and Bonds of Belier· today at 5 p.m. in C-100 Hesburgh Center. The lecture is sponsored by the Erasmus Institute. 
Head football coach Charlie Weis will speak in 102 DeBartolo Hall today at 9 p.m. on the value of people with disabilities. The speech is part of Disability Awareness Month. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 


43 43 37 33 
Atlanta 58 I 40 Boston 45 I 28 Chicago 50 I 34 Denver 48 I 25 Houston 74 I 54 Los Angeles 64 I 54 Minneapolis 34 I 24 New York 48 I 34 Philadelphia 50 I 34 Phoenix 73 I 52 Seattle 50 I 38 St. Louis 59 I 39 Tampa 72 I 53 Washington 52 I 36 
-----~ 
l I 
Monday, March 21, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Prof exa111ines 111odern surveillance 
Special to the Observer 
(;ary Marx, prol'essor emer­itus ol' sociology at the Massaehusetts Institute of Technology and author ol' numorous books and artieles on social eontrol, mass bnhavior and race relations, will prosont a talk at 4:30 
p.m. today in 1:n Do Bartolo. Titled "Windows into the Soul," the loeture is freo and open to tho public. 
Marx will diseuss the soeial, 
legal, ethical, comparative international, cultural and poliey implications of recent developments in surveillance and eommunications technol­ogy. 
lie is the author of "Protest and Prejudice" and "Under­cover: Police Surveillance in Ameriea" and eo-author, with Doug McAdam, ol' "Collective Behavior and Social Movements." "Undercover" received the Outstanding Book Award from the 
Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences and Marx was named the American Sociological Association's Jensen Lecturer for 1989-90. His works in progress include books on new forms of sur­veillance and social control across borders. 
Marx's talk is sponsored by Notre Dame's Science, Technology and Values Program, the Department of Sociology and the Web Group Faculty Learning Community. 

Haiti health crisis to be addressed 
Lymphatic Filariasis tops list of concerns 
Special to the Observer 
A symposium titled "First Stops: Eliminating Lymphatic J."iJariasis in llaiti" will be hold today at. MeKnnna llall. The nvnnt is free and open to the puhlie. 
Lymphatic Filariasis (LF) eausns tlw grotesque swelling of tho body known as nlnphan­liasis, a disease in which pro­grnssive lym phatie dysfu netion loads to the hideous swnlling of legs, arms, breasts, or genitals. 
I.F is aggravated by dangerous skin infnetions whose heat can hneome so intnns(~ it causes second-degree burns. Notre Dame's llaiti Program. led by biologist Father Thomas Streit, has as its goal the elimination of LF from llaiti by 2012. As many as 2 million of Haiti's 8.3 million people are believed infected with the mosquito­borne parasites that eause LF. 
The focus of the Haiti sympo­sium will be fortified salt pro­duction in llaiti. Under the leadership of the llaiti lleallh Ministry, Notre Dame and prin­cipal partners Holy Cross llospital, the Centers for Disease Control and UNICEF have been working to fortify the Haiti salt supply with the drug diethylcarbamazine (DEC) and iodine to interrupt the transmission of LF and amelio­rate iodinn deficiency stan­dards. 
Tlw symposium will begin at 8 a.m. and the highlight of the event will be an address titled "llealth in Ilaiti: Charge to the Partners" at 4 p.m. by Josette Bijou, Haiti's Minister of Public Health and the Population. Other presenters include Patrick Lammie, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; Steven Alt. regional advisor for communicable diseases for the Pan American Health Organization; and Madsen Beau de Rochars, director of the LF Heference Center at Jlopital Sainte Croix in Leogane, Haiti. 
At 2:30 p.m., Notre Dame industrial design students under the direction of Department of Art, Art llistory and Design faculty members Paul Down and Robert Sedlak, will make a presentation addressing the need to rebuild the Haitian salt evaporation pools that were destroyed last September by Hurricane Jeanne. 

Peace conference set 




for early April at ND 
Organized by Kroc Institute, event will offer different approaches to ending violence 
Special to the Observer 

More than 100 under­graduate and graduate stu­dents from Notre Dame and some 20 other colleges and universities will participate in the 2005 Undergraduate Peace Conference on cam­pus April 1 and 2 (Friday and Saturday). 
Titled "Crossing Boundaries in the Name oi' Peace," the conference is organized by Notre Dame students under the spon­sorship of the University's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
John Paul Lederach, pro­fessor of international peacebuilding at Notro Dame, will open the eonfer­ence with a keynote address at 8 p.m. April 1 in the Hesburgh Center for International Studios. Founder of the Conflict Transformation Program at Eastern Mennonite University, Lederach has helped design and conduct training programs in more than 25 countries and is the author of 16 books and manuals on peace educa­tion and conflict transfor­mation, including, "The Moral Imagination: Tho Art and Soul ol' Building Peace." 
The conference will con­tinue with presentations, panels and workshops !'rom 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. April 2 in the llesburgh Center. Topics include religious approaches to pnace, weapons of war and peace, theories of war, eonfliet transformation. paths to peace in Northern Ireland, relationships between the military and non-govern­mental organizations in conf'lict zorws, struggles ol' India's indigenous people, alternate processes of peace and justice, identity crises in the Philippines and Palestine, a multidisci­plinary approaeh to poac1~ in llaiti and genocide. 
Hogistration l'or the eon­ference, which is free and open to the publie, will take plaee until March 24 on the Web at http://www.nd .edu/-krocins tleven ts/erossboun d aries.h t ml, or !'rom noon to 5 p.m. April 1 at tho llosburgh Center. Dinner Friday and lunch Saturday will be pro­vided at no charge lo those who register by the March 24 deadline. 

Then come check out our-brand-new office in the basement of the brand-new SMC Student Center! 


Who: writers, photographers, designers, copy editors anyone is welcome to talk with editors What: Observer open house When: Monday at 4 p.m. 
Questions? Contact Megan O'Neil at 284-4403 

~~ 
t page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 21, 2005 
t ' 

Alu01nae 
continued from page 1 
got." 

McDonald said part of recog­nizing each individual's leader­ship potential comes from women who epitomize leader­ship. 
"We wanted this experience to reinforce in them what it is like to be at Saint Mary's and additionally, we were hoping there would be a sort of discov­ery -that the attendees would realize that they were already exhibiting a lot of leadership skills, even if they didn't realize it yet," McDonald said. "There are many different ways to be a leader at Saint Mary's." 
The conference attendees ranged from corporate execu­tives to stay-at-home moms to self-employed small business owners. The conference gave alums an opportunity to recon­nect with one another as well as meet and talk with current students at Saint Mary's. 
Friday night's keynote speak­ers -Superintendent of Benton Harbor schools Paula Dawning and Presidential Medal of Freedom winner Frances Hesselbein drew a large crowd of not only alumnae but current students and other members of the campus community. 
Before planning of the confer­ence, Earley and McDonald studied other college's alumnae leadership programs as well as collaborating with the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership (CWIL) and the Office of Multicultural Affairs (OMA). 
"We did a lot of leadership studies, looking at models cre­ated by Duke, Georgetown, Welsley and more, but when we sat down to do it, we created a program that was all our own," Earley said. "This took two years of planning, but it's t.r;-ue what they say, if you build it, they will come." 
McDonald said since this con­ference was so successful, she is hoping more will be planned for the future. 
"We are hopeful that this is the beginning of a tradition," McDonald said. "This is just another example of what Saint Mary's women can do." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 



Bouts 
continued from page 1 

about $50,000, this year's contributiQn is "amazing," sen­ior captain Nathan Lohmeyer said. 
The additional money, said both Farrell and Lohmeyer, came from the pockets of Bengal Bouts alumni. The club sent letters to· alumni request­ing donations, with a $750 gift establishing an alumnus as a founding member of the Nappy Legacy Fund, named in honor of the first coach of the bouts, Dominic "Nappy" Napolitano. 
Alumni were also invited to campus for a series of events surrounding the 75th anniver­sary, including a reception in the press box Friday night and a banquet in the Monogram Room Saturday evening. The weekend culminated in Saturday night's finals. 
"We just want to get people back here and get them upped again," Farrell said. "They'll say, 'Hey, this is kind of a nice place.' And of course, whatever we can raise for the missions is fantastic." 
Ticket prices were $1 0 for a general, all-nights ticket, $5 for a student single-night ticket and $8 or $10 (during the final rounds) for a non-student sin­gle-night ticket. Reserved seat­ing near the ring was also available for a higher fee. Tickets were sold at the dining hall during the week before the event, but they were also avail­able at the door. 
Each boxer was required to sell 1 0 tickets as well as adver­tising for the programs, which were, in turn, sold each night of the bouts for $1. Advertisers varied from dorms to clubs to parents of the boxers. 
Hecognizing the lucrative industry that is the T-shirt busi­ness at Notre Dame, the club sold Bengal Bouts shirts for $15 in the dining halls and at each night of the bouts. Polo shirts, hats and stickers recognizing the 75th anniversary were also on sale. 
Another money-saver for the club came from Adidas, which agreed to cover the cost of the clothing for each boxer (two shirts and a pair of shorts). The "$1 ,000 or so," according to Lohmeyer, that would have been removed for that expense remained a part of the dona­tion. 
After asking for something from the alumni, the club gave something back to them: they presented the Bengal Bouts Award -given annually to someone who has gone "above and beyond the call in service to the club," according to Lohmeyer -to anyone who has ever been a member of the Notre Dame Boxing Club, or spent time in the ring. 
Alumni from the class of 1944 to the class of 2003 gathered in the ring to accept the award. 
"It was cool to see a guy who was 82 standing next to a guy who was 22," Lohmeyer said. "They were both part of the same organization." 
Sophomore boxer Clayton Lougee emphasized the bonds formed through the Bengal Bouts experience. 
"The amazing part about the Bengal bouts is that we train so hard all together before we get in the ring, then we go and face off ... but then once the fight is over, after we've tried so hard to completely beat each other up for three rounds, we're right back to being friends," he said. 
They fight, but they're friends. And they fight for something more than a title. 
The money they raise goes to the Holy Cross Mission in Daka, Bangladesh, which is made up of a school, college, seminary, orphanage and hospital. 
The Boxing Club is the single largest supporter of this mis­sion; "their financial stability depends on how much money [the club] raise[s]," Lohmeyer said. 
Indeed, according to the Bengal Bouts Web site, one American dol.lar can feed and clothe a family of five for a day in Bangledesh. 
Reflecting upon a visit to the mission, Bengal Bouts coach Tom Suddes wrote, "I have never fully realized the impact of the Bengal Bouts and the boxing program on people's lives in Bangledesh." 
Lohmeyer said it succinctly. 
"I think they're going to bP really, really happy to receive a $100,000 check over there." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy1@nd.edu 


Cha01ps 
continued from page 1 
before losing to St. John's Serjay Isayenko 15-12. 
"I know that Patrick made big progress this year," head coach Janusz Bednarski said. "He was competing very well so it was not a surprise for me [that he made the finals]." 
Orlando, who had gone from 11th place in the round robin after Saturday to fourth place by the end of Sunday, beat Holly Buechel of Penn 15-5 before losing to Anna Garina of Wayne State 15-6. 
The largest upset of the event came as Kryczalo, the three-time defending cham­pion, attempted to join only 29 other athletes in NCAA history as winners (}f the same event four years in a row. After triumphing over Erszebet Garay of St. John's 15-8, Harvard freshman Emily Cross defeated Kryczalo 15-5 in the finals. 
Along with the medalists, freshman foil Jakub Jedrkowiak (7th), senior sabre Andrea Ament (7th) and sophomore sabre Matt Stearns (lOth) were All­Americans at the event, giv­ing Notre Dame 9 total. 
Despite the individual accolades and troubles, the defining moments of the tournament came when Ohio State's Metta Thompson lost to St. John's Katia Larchanka immediately after Kryczalo had claimed victory over Columbia's Cassidy Luitjen, giving Notre Dame its seventh national championship and securing the team as the sole champi­on. 
"If we win first, we win first, we shouldn't tie it," Providenza said. "We have done that great in a long time, so it was amazing." 
This is the second national championship for Notre Dame this year. The women's soccer team won Dec. 5 with a 4-3 penalty kick decision against UCLA. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 


FOR YOUR BEST TAN EVER! 
SPRING BREAK SPECIAL! 


3 tans for $10 
COUPON APPLIES TO ruiOULAR nED SESSONS. NOT VALID WITH OTHER DISCOUNTS. LIMIT 1PER PERSON. 
Expires 3/31/05 

r--------------------------­


ORLD & NATION 
Monday, March 21, 2005 CoMrtuo FROM TI-IE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Clash with ex-soldiers kills three 
I'OHT-AU-PHINCI\, llaiti -U.N. troops fought tho hloodiost dash of their 10-month­old mission in llaiti on Sunday, when a raid lo remove ex-soldiers from a police station orupted into a gunhattle that killed throo pnoplo, induding a peacekenper, officials said. Thren pmu~okenpors wen~ also wound­ed. 
The Sri Lankan peacekenpnr who died in Llw raid in Potit-Goavn, an stronghold for for­nwr soldiers about 45 milns west of Port-au­Prince, is the first killed in a dash since the United Nations !'oren arrived, said Toussaint Kongo-Doudou, a U.N. spokesman. Two nx­soldinrs diod and I 0 others were wounded. 
The U.N. troops entPrml Petit-Goave before dawn. Using a loudspnaker, the Brazilian rornrnander of U.N. troops in Haiti, Lt. Gen. Augusto llniPno Hibniro, tried for 20 minutes lo gel tho fornwr soldiers to surrender JWat~ofully when they opened fire on U.N. troops, Kongo-l>oudou said. 
Annan calls for U.N. changes 
UNITED NATIONS -The United Nations loadnr proposod bold changes Sunday, light­ing to right the U.N. ship of state aftor a year of scandal -blatant fraud in the Iraq oil-for­food program and sex abuse by peacekeep­ing troops that dtH~pened the misery in Congo, not to nwnlion the rnsignation of his r!'fugPo chinf under llw cloud of sexual harassmont dutrgos. 
Secrotary-GerHH·al Koli Annan, whose own son has btwn linkl'd to questions about the oil-for-food program, issund a call for his nwrnlwrs to approve what would be tho most SWI'Pping rhangos to tho Unitnd Nations in its (tO-yt~ar history. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Alleged killer returns to Florida 
HOMOSASSA, Fla. -The convicted sex ofTPmler who authoritios say confessed to kidnapping and slaying IJ-yoar-old Jessica Lunsford returrwd to Florida in shackles Sunday as her family grieved for the girl who vanishnd from hnr bedroom. 
.John Evander Couey was booked early Sunday on a probation violation and failure to register as a snx o!Tendnr, o('(icials said. lie was being lwld without bail. 
Couey, 46, eonfessed to kidnapping and killing .Jnsska aftnr taking a lin-dntnetor test l,.riday in c;norgia, oflidals said. The girl's body was found early Saturday, morn than thrnn wn1~ks aftPr she was snatdwd from her btHlroom. 
Navy SEAL to face court-martial 
SAN DIECO-The court-martial of a Navy SI\AL linuterumt ar.eusPd of abusing a prison­er in Iraq is a ease full of secrnts -evnn the ch~fnndant's nanw is dassilind. 
Thn SEAL is ar.nrsnd of punehing an Iraqi dntainnn in the arm and allowing his nwn to abuse tlw prisorwr, who later died during CIA interrogation at Baghdad's Abu Chraib prison. 
Ill~ l'aens a trial set to begin today on dwrgns or assault, dnrnlir.tion or duty and t~ondur.t unbec~oming an ollknr. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Female lawmakers losing ground 
INillANAI'OI.IS -Tlwrn arn fewer women in the Indiana c;mwral Assembly today then Llwrt~ wen~ 10 years ago -a fad that sur­prises and disappoints thn stall~'s 25 f'emale lawrnaknrs. 
In I1J95, Indiana had just eleetnd the most wonwn to tho logislaturo in its history. Tlwrn worn :n wonwn in tho House and Stmatn. 
It snmned liko just tho bnginning of a wave that would changn thn face of Indiana's gov­ernment. 
Bush signs bill to prolong life 
Michael Schiavo indignant at federal government's intervention in his wife's case 
Associated Press 

PINELLAS PAHK, Fla.  - 
While Terri Schiavo lay  
dying in her hospice bod, the  
U.S. Congress and President  
Bush gavo hope to the brain­ 
damaged woman's panmts  
that her f'neding tube would  
be reinserted once again,  
Following tho Senate's  
ll~ad,  the  !louse  early  
Monday passed a bill to let  
tho woman's parnnts ask a  
federal judge to prolong  
Schiavo's life.  President  
Bush signed tho  measure  
IPss than an hour later.  
"In cases like this one,  
where there  are  serious  
questions and substantial  
doubt<>, our sodety, our laws  
and our eourts should have  
a  presumption in favor of  
life," Bush said in  a statn­ 
mnnt allor signing the bill.  
Schiavo's  father,  Bob  
Schindler, thanknd lawmak­ 
ors but acknowledged "we  
still have a li~w hurdles yet."  
''I'm· numb, I'm just totally  
numb. This whole thing, it's  
hard to believe it," lw told  
reporters outside the hos­ 
pko.  
Attorneys for Schiavo's  
parents  already  filed  a  
request for an emergency  
injunction with a  federal  
appellate court to have hor  
APf'ooding tube reinserted.  
Thny also planned to make a Michael Schiavo's attorney George Felos speaks to Pinellas County Circuit Court Judge  
similar request with tho fed­George Greer, who ruled that Schiavo could have his wife's, feeding tube removed Fiiday.  
oral district court in Tampa.  
"We are very, very, very  and  criticizing.  House  us," he said.  Ten Commandmonts tablots  
thankful to cross this bridge.  Majority Leader Tom DeLay,  The president's brother,  and a huge working version  
And  we  are very hopeful  who helped broker the con­ Gov. Jeb Bush, praised the  of the Liberty Boll.  
that the federal courts will  gressional compromise.  actions of Congress. "We in  A shout of joy when news  
follow tho will of Congress  A  lawyer  for  Michael  government have a duty to  of the bill's passage canw.  
and save my sister's life,"  Schiavo said the bill could be  protect the weak, disabled  Among those cheering was  
said Suzanne Vitadamo,  found unconstitutional. "It is  and vulnerable," he said in a  David Bayly, 45, of Toledo,  
Torri Schiavo's sister.  in our opinion an absolute  statement Monday. "I appre­ Ohio: ''I'm overjoyed to see  
Schiavo's  husband,  attack on the notion that we  date the efforts of stato and  the vote and see Terri's lifn  
Mir.hael Schiavo, said he  have separation of powers  federal lawmakers on both  extnndod  by  whatever  
was outragod that congres­ between  the  eo-equal  sides of tho aisle who have  amount God gives her."  
sional leaders were inter­ branches of government,"  taken this duty to heart."  The 41-year-old woman's  
vening in the contentious  attorney llamden Baskin III  Outside the hospir.o,  a  fending tub1~  was rnmoved  
right-to-die battle. lie has  told CNN.  crowd of about 50 people  Friday on a  J.'lorida judge's  
battled for years with his  Bob Schindler visited his  prayed and sang behind  order. Schiavo ~~ould  linger  
wife's parnnts over whether she should be pfwmittod to  daughtnr late Sunday and said hn noticed the ell'oets of  sign.~ boa~ing ~ue~ s!~>gans as Let fHrn Lrvo and  for one or two we11ks if the tubn is not reinserted -as  
die or kept alive through the  dehydration on her. Jill said  "President Bush Ploasn Save  has happimed twicn bnli>m,  
fending tubo.  she appeared to be getting  Terri." One  man  played  once on a judge's ordnr and  
"I think that the Congress  tired,  but  eventually  "Amazing Grace" on a trum­ onco afllw Gov. Bush passod  
has more important things  responded to his teasing by  pet, as a pickup truck pulled  "Terri's Law," which  was  
to discuss," he told CNN,  making a far.e at him.  a  trailer bearing I 0-foot­ lator dodarod unconstitu­ 
calling the move  political  "It tells us she's still with  high replicas of tho stone  tional.  
PAKISTAN  

Pilgritns flee shrine after bo111bing kills 30 
Shiite and a Sunni," said thn shrinn's pilgrims as they took supper in an
Associated Press 

caretaker, Syed Sadiq Shah. "God's opnn area about 500 font from thn 
FATEIIPUR -Frightonod pilgrims eurse be on those who did this. They shrino. crammed into buses leaving a remote have killed innocent people." Most of them had travnlnd from village in southwostorn Pakistan on The explosion carved out a 2-foot other n~gions of Baluehistan or rwigh­Sunday after a bombing at a Shiite denp crater and added to security boring Sindh provinee to mark tho shrine left 30 dead, and rnlativos sift­fears in restive Baluchistan provinee, death annivorsarv of the 19th enntury nd bloodiod eaps and shoes for signs hit last week by lighting b1~tween gov­Shiite saint whoso tomb is insidn th;~ of' loved onos. ernnwnt forces and nmegadn tribes­shrine. Up to 20,000 pnopln had 
The blast Saturday night prompted men. arrived ovnr the wenk1~1Hl for t.hn anger and disbelief among the thou­No one claimed responsibility for the three-day event at Fatnhpur, an arid sands who gather hero 500 miles attack. Shoaib Naushorwani, village of about 50 mud briek homes. southwest of the capital, Islamabad, BaluehisLan's home minister, said 30 "We wnro busy serving food to tho for an annual festival that bridges sec­people died and 20 were wounded. travelers. I went into the kitdwn and tarian and religious divides. Shah put the number of dead at 44. thnre was a big blast liko an earth­
"Everyone comes here, even Hindus. A time bomb, packed with about 6.6 quake," recounted shrine worker There is no distinction here between a pounds of explosive, went ofT among Ghulam Mohammed. 

Monday, March 21, 2005 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 

Leaders 
continued from page 1 

ing generation of women leaders -students from the United Arab Emirates, the Americas, the Gulf countries, Europe, Asia and Africa ­with each other and with some of the most prominent women leaders in the world today," the University stated on the conference's Web site. 
The trip was sponsored by CWIL, which also footed the bill since the goals of the con­ference aligned with CWIL's goal of fostering intercultural knowledge. Zayed University, a women's college founded in 1998 in the United Arab Emirates, paid for almost all student accommodations. 
Saint Mary's contributed to three lectures with themes of Muslim-Catholic dialogue, social justice teachings and compassionate listening as a form of reconciliation. 
"We had all shown interest to be in more than just a dia­logue," Madison said. "We still get together every other week to reflect and practice what we learned in the dialogue." 
Upon arriving, Fritz, Madison, Johnston and Quddoura, along with Farina and moderator Tracy Robison, director of the InterCultural Living Community, were "greeted in ... waves of women in black with red triangles [around their necks] saying 'Women as Global Leaders.' I didn't expect to be greeted by women leaders," said Madison. Every aspect of the conference was presented in English except for the welcome, which was in Arabic. 
Entertainment was large­scale and noteworthy, provided with all-out hospitality, according to Johnston. Nothing was held back. A night at a desert resort included fire­works and "a fabulous cook­out, henna tattoos, camel rides and flame throwers," Johnston said. The night the SMC repre­sentatives arrived, there was a laser show in an auditorium and a gala dinner complete with sand art, ice sculptures and a young pianist, cellist and violinist -all from different countries, who collaborated to provide background music the entire night. 
Keynote speakers at the con­ference were multi-genera­tional and included some of the most notable female world leaders. Tipper Gore, wife of former U.S. Vice President Al Gore, spoke about mental health issues; Gro Harlem Brundtland, former Director­General of the World Health Organization, the Right Honourable Kim Campbell, former Prime Minister of Canada, and Patricia de Stacy Harrison, U.S. Assistant 
·---------------r-------------------~
:IV "c c 0 s Special Hours for Graduation: 
1 LU.J May 15th 4pm-l0pm 1 : Restaurant No Reservations Please : 
I I 
1'First Origina( Pizza in 'T'own! : 
I 

Since 1951 : Specializing in Italian Entrees 
'It: 
Tues. -Thurs.: 5:00PM-11:00PM Fri. -Sat.: 5:00PM-I:OOAM 
5'n North St. Louis South Bend, IN 574-233-2464 
Cut out this coupon for $2.00 off any pizza. Dine-in only. Expires 3/3112005 

Saint Mary's delegates gather in Dublai for a leadership conference. From left are Veronica Fritz, Angela Johnson, Sister Marianne Farina, Tracy Robinson, Asma Quddura and Carolyn Madison. 
Secretary of State for Education and Cultural Affairs also contributed. 
Other participants in the conference included women and men from the business world. 
According to the Saint Mary's participants, panels and workshops throughout the course of the conference helped to break up the huge amount of women who attend­ed and also served to cater to each woman's individual con­cerns. 
Participation in the Women as, Global Leaders Conference has had profound affects on the Saint Mary's Women who attended. 
Fritz said she initially had reservations about going to a country in the Middle East, but her eyes were opened by the welcome she received. 
"Because we were treated so graciously, I was able to appreciate the different cul­ture as well as the other cul­tures that were there," Fritz said. "We're all the same, and if we focus on our similarities rather than our differences, the world can be a better place." 
Johnston said she felt safe and welcomed "not just in the conference, but everywhere I went in Dubai. Through this conference, my knowledge of the world has grown to include an understanding and appreci­ation of a Middle Eastern cul­ture that I didn't have before." 
"It's a good thing to under­stand a different culture and put into action the respect of a different culture I thought I had before. I realized people the world over are trying to make changes," said Madison, who appreciated Kim Campbell's idea: "You can be a leader whoever you are ­whether a man or a woman." 
Johnston said she could see a need for this leadership con­ference, saying, "It's not likely to see a ton of women out and about in the city." 
"All speakers encouraged leadership both inside families and outside families and how those roles can compliment each other," Johnston said. "To be a good leader, it involves both men and women working together," she said. 
Madison said she learned the importance of realizing one's potential as a leader, but also how to follow other's leader­ship. 
"Without one culture, you couldn't have your own ideas. It's easy to forget that most ideas we have weren't founded by Americans," Madison said. "It's good to remember how similar we are, especially in human rights -inalienable rights." 
Participants hope to main­tain contact with the women they met in Dubai and are already planning future con­ferences. 
"Some women exchanged 
11th annual 

Mini-Medical School Lecture' Series 
Presented by the 
South Bend Center for Medical Education 
Sponsored by the 11-fedicalEducation Foundation 
Join us for 6 informative evenings as leading doctors, professionals and university/medical school professors discuss the hottest topics in medicine today. Free of charge and open to the general public. 
Medical professionals attending the lectures ntay receive 2 CME credits per session. The Indiana Unh•erslt~; School or Medicine is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education to provide continuing medical education for physidans. 
Session 1. Tuesday. March 15, 2005 Orthopedic Trauma 
Bryan Boyer, l\1D 

Session 3. Tuesday, March 29,2005 
Tremor: Better Living through .t.faclrineJ:V 
Robet·t Yount, M.D 

Session 5. Tuesday, Aprill2, 2005 
Cancer: Prevention, Screening, and Treatment in our Community umi Beyond 
Michael Method MD 

information and are consider­ing coming to Saint Mary's for Compassionate Listening this summer," Johnston added. 
Next year's conference is slated to be held in Abu Dhabi, United Arabs Emirates. 
"We hope the conference will take place every year. I'd love to go back, but I think we have to be invited back, which I'm sure we will," Fritz stated. 
"Saint Mary's College would love to participate again," Madison said. "You never know who you will inspire." 
Major sponsors of the con­ference itself included Abu Dhabi Water & Electricity Authority, First Gulf Bank, Microsoft, EmiratesMedia, International Printing Press, Women in Business Magazine and CNBC. 
For more information on the conference, visit www.zu.­ac.ae/leadership2005. 
Contact Lisa Gallagher at lgallaO1@saintmarys.edu 
Session 2, Tuesdav, March 22, 2005 
Altemative ftfedicitre: ffalking a Fine Line 
Lynn Willis, PhD 
Session 4, Tuesday. April 5. 2005 
Sleep Disorders 
Gary Fromm, l\lD 
Session 6, Tuesdav, April19. 2005 
Alzheimer's Disease 
Martin Farlow, l'VlD 
IRAQ 

Nations dispute, re111ove delegates 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -Iraq and Jordan engaged in a tit-for­tat withdrawal of ambassa­dors Sunday in a growing dispute over Shiite Muslim claims that Jordan is failing to block terrorists from entering Iraq, while U.S. forces killed 24 insurgents in a clash south of Baghdad. 
An American convoy was traveling through the Salman Pak area, 20 miles southeast of Baghdad, when it was attacked, U.S. offi­cials said. The military returned fire and killed 24 militants. Seven militants and six soldiers were also wounded. 
No further details were available about the attack or the conditions of the wounded soldiers. 
The clash was among the largest involving insurgents since the Jan. 30 elections, and came on a day of bloody attacks by militants throughout the country. 
Sunday's diplomatic row erupted even as a Jordanian court sentenced in absentia Iraq's most feared terrorist -who was born in Jordan -to a 15­year prison term. 
Time: 7:00-9:00 p.m. Place: 102 DeBartolo Hall (west ofstadium) University of Notre Dame To register or for more information, call Judy at (574) 631-5574. 
-----------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Monday, March 21, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

10,629.67 +3.32
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,228 152 .. 2,787,906,010 
AMEX 1.483.94 -3.43 NASDAQ 2,007.79 -8.63 NYSE 7,276.84 -7.47 S&PSOO I, 189.65 -0.56 NIKKEI(Tol<yo) II ,879.81 +I 04.31 FTSE IOO(London) 4,923.30 + 1.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) -0.54 -0.20 36.51 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.94 -0.23 24.31 INTEL CP (INTC) 0.00 0.00 23.41 CISCO 5YS INC (C:SCO) -1.28 -0.23 17.80 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -4.71 -0.62 12.54 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.07 +0.51 48.1 I I0-YEAR NOTE +0.92 +0.41 45.11 5-YEARNOTE +0.82 +0.34 41.70 3-MONTH BILL +0.55 +0.15 27.42 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.32 56.72 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.60 439.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.50 91.20 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 04.76 EURO 0.7511 POUND 0.5208 CANADIAN$ 1.2030 
IN BRIEF 
Affair causes executive to resign 
CHIC;\(;()-The Boning Co. executive whose alTair with CEO Harry Stonecipher led to his oustnr last week has voluntarily resigned, the eompany said Friday. 
Tlw woman's resignation was effective Thursday, spokesman John Dern said. lie wouldn't eomment further, and the aircraf't manufaeturllf continued its refusal to identify lwr, eiting privacy concerns. 
Stonecipher resigned at the request of Boning's board of din~ctors for what Chairman l.ew Platt said was unprofessional conduct r11lated to the alTair. Company sourcAs have said tlw ouster was necessary because of graphic e-mail exchanges between the CEO and tlw female executive at a time when Boeing's ethical conduct was under heavy scrutiny. 
Wlwn Boeing announced Stonecipher's ouster March 7. it said it also was investigating tho woman's artivitins surrounding the matter and did not know wlwthnr she would remain with thn eompany. 
That investigation is now complntn, Boning told 11mploynns in a eompanywide message lo'riday quoting gnnnral counsel Doug Bain. The rornpany said that "by mutual agrnenwnt," nei­ther Boning nor tho former nxeeutivn is releas­ing furtlwr information. 
Taser gives active cops stock options 
Cll;\NI>I.EH, Ariz. -Tasnr International Inc. optmly 1:rediL<; iL<; us11 of adive-duty police olli­l:nrs as trainers as a major ingredient in tho eornpany's meteoric rise to bneomn the No. I s11ller of stun guns. 
And like a lot of other cash-strapped startups, early on Tasnr oiTered some of those of'licers st01:k options as an inenntivn. 
But with the Scottsdale-based company now under statn and li1deral investigation over safety dairns and accounting issues, questions have arisnn about wlwther the oflicers' moonlighting represented a conflict of intnrest, particularly wlwn thnir own dnpartmenL<; wero buying stun guns. 
Associated Press 

NEWAHK, N.J. John Z. DeLorean, the innovative automaker who left a promising career in Detroit to develop the stainless steel­skinned, gull-winged sports ear bearing his name and was acquitted or charges he planned to sell $24 million worth of cocaine to support the venture, has died at the age or 80. 
I>eLorean died Saturday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J., of complications from a recent stroke, said Paul Connell, an owner of A.J. Desmond & Sons Funeral Directors in Hoyal Oak, Mich., which was. han­

Phonebook errors rile residents 
Customers incur unnecessary losses as a result of Verizon's listing mistakes 
Associated Press 

HICilMOND, Va. -For 
weeks, Rusty MeGowan 
wondnrnd why tho phone 
l'or his waterseaping com­
pany had stopped ringing. 
Did he ol'fend someorw? 
Had his f'ish ponds and 
watnrfalls failed to plcasn? 
Thnn he thumbed through tho nnw plwrwbook. Verizon Communications Inc., he rnaliznd, had published the wrong number fiw the busi­ness, Aqua-Scapes of Virginia/Virginia Waterseaping, in three Ynllow Pages in the state. In the white pages, his compa­ny's listing was dropped altogethnr. 
"They have ruined me," said McGowan, who says his Yellow Pagns ads gennratn about half his sales. Verizon didn't charge him and oflim~d him a free ad in one book, hn said. but the dam­age was done. lin nstimatns the omissions cost his Virginia Beach business about $35,000. 
The nation's largest local phone company, based in Nnw York. has made a serins of embarrassing errors in its directories in mennt yccirs. In a well pub­licized gaffe last year. as many as 12,000 Verizon telephone numbers that Virginia, West Virginia, Maryland and Washington, D.C., customers had paid to rnctions weren't made at ns our customnrs," said the resnarc.h company knnp unlistnd were acciden­all. Mary De La Garza, a Gartner lne., said the prob­tally published. In 2003, In January, the State spokeswoman for Verizon lems weren't surprising Verizon was forced to pub­Corporation Commission Information Services, which considering the industry's lish supplements to more said it would investigate the publishes 1 ,200 directories cost-cutting and automa­than a dozen error-riddled company's white page and tens of millions of list­tion. "They might have gonn directories in New York. directories, which fall under ings. "When we identify a too far in removing cheeks 
In Virginia, Verizon has its regulations because they directory error, we work and balances," he said of bungled multiple phone­are part or basic phone diligently to figure out what Verizon. books across the state sev­service. happened, get it corrected Consumer advocates call eral times. In the past year, "Something is falling and prevent it from happen­Verizon's errors an illustra­about 700 businesses, resi­down in the process," said ing again." tion of how customer serv­dents and governments Kenneth Schrad, a State regulators and some ice has suffered while the have complained to state spokesman for the agency. telecom analysts were puz­phone company expanded regulators about wrong Verizon representatives zled by Verizon's directory to dominate the Northeast numbers. misnamed com­said they were working mistakes, characterizing and Mid-Atlantic statns. panies and omitted listings. eloscly with state regula­them as unusual for the "l don't sense any desire 
Customers who tried to fix tors. But they provided little company and the industry. from the folks l'vn worked the problems say they had detail about the mistakes They say service providers with to really make things to wade through Verizon's and declined several times have grappled in the past better for consumers. bureaucracy, waiting on to discuss spneific com­with phonebook errors, but They're working rnal hard hold or unable to reach the plaints. they were not aware of any­to takn earn of their bottom right person. Some mistakes "We have had directory thing to the magnitudn of line," said lrnne Lnnch, were compounded instead errors, and we apologize for the problems in Virginia. president of the Virginia of eorrPded, and some cor-the inconvenience this caus-Jay Pultz, an analyst at. Citiznns Consumer Council. 
Auto executive and developer dies at 80 
dling arrangements. 
DeLorean, whose namesake ear was turned into a time machine in the "Back to the Future" movies, was among just a handful of U.S. entre­preneurs who dared start a ear com­pany in the last 75 years. 
DeLorean "broke the mold" of staid Midwestern auto executives by push­ing General Motors Corp. to offer smaller models, auto historians said. 
While at GM, he created what some consider the first "muselll ear" in 1964 by cramming a V-8 engine into a Pontiac Tempest and calling it the GTO. 
Although he was a rising if um~on­vnntional executive at GM, and was believed by many to be destinnd for its presidency, he quit in 1973 to launch the DeLornan Motor Car Co. in Northern Ireland. 
Eight years later, thn DnLornan DMC-12 hit the streets with its unpainted stainless steel skin and gull-wing doors. 
Its angular design earned it a cult following, and the ear was a time­traveling vehicle for Mkhanl .I. Fox in the "Baek to the Future" films of the late 1980s. 
Ilowever, the factory produced only about R,900 ears in thrnn years, esti­mated .John Truscott, membership d ireetor of the De Lorean Ownnrs Association. 
~--­
Monday, March 21, 2005 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
Courthouse shooter hurts Atlanta's itnage 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Atlanta has spent years promoting itself as the welcoming, friendly Capital of the New South ­"the city too busy to hate." 
That image has taken a beating following a deadly courthouse rampage that left many with the impression that the city is unsafe and its police inept. It only gets worse as more details about what went wrong continue to trickle out daily. 
National television and radio talk show hosts have ripped on the city's response to the ram­page, with some referring to the local police as "Keystone Kops." 
A local radio personality even said: "Thank God he left Atlanta, otherwise they never would have found him," refer­ring to the suspect's capture in a suburb. 
Among the missteps: A sur­veillance camera that record­ed images of a rape suspect overpowering a petite deputy and taking her gun was not monitored even as he allegedly entered a courtroom and gunned down a judge and a court reporter. 
Local police did not take control of the crime scene until some 20 minutes after the shootings, as the suspect carjacked five vehicles within a mile of the courthouse before walking to atrain sta­tion in the heart of the city's downtown. 
The first photos of the sus­pect were not circulated until an hour after the initial attack, about the time the suspect escaped on a commuter train. 
Although he asked a reporter whose car he stole for directions to a busy mall, the suspect spent as many as 12 hours milling around out­side the mall, undetected, before assaulting a couple and killing a federal agent. 
And those are just the mis­steps that have come to light in recent days. Others were known by the time the sus­pect, .Brian Nichols, was arrested March 12, following a 26-hour manhunt. 
Mayor Shirley Franklin responded to all the hammer­ing on the city's image Friday, simply by saying: "We're not perfect, but we seek to be the best we can be." 
City officials have nurtured the city's image as a safe, sophisticated place. Atlanta came through the civil rights era with relatively little vio­lence because civic leaders feared trouble would be bad for businnss. 
The city's reputation has helped draw business, sport­ing events and tourists -it is consistently listed among the Top 10 destinations for con­ventions and other large meet­ings. 
But Atlanta also landed third on a list of the nation's most dangerous large cities in November, although the study's authors said it would have been fourth if they had known about unreported crimes in St. Louis. 
Atlanta has done much to play down its crime -even cooking its crime statistics to help land the 1996 Olympics and pump up tourism, accord­ing to an audit commissioned by police and released last year. 

The city's police chief, Richard Pennington, has said he is making widespread improvements in the city's policing and said he will over­see a full review of mistakes in the wake of the courthouse slayings. 
The manhunt and its mis­steps were dissected in the national media, creating a high-profile problem for the city's reputation. 
"Regardless of who failed or why they failed, to the general public the fact is they failed," said Joe King, associate pro­fessor of law and police sci­ence at the John Jay College of Justice in New York. 
"The biggest black eye you could say happened to the Atlanta Police Department and the Sheriff's office is they failed to see this coming and they failed to gear up for it," King said. 
Fulton County Sheriff Myron Freeman did not answer ques­tions about why a 51-year-old, 5-foot female deputy was left alone with an uncuffed, 6-foot­1, 200-pound former college linebacker on trial for rape. 
One of Nichols' alleged vic­tims, the judge on his rape ease, had requested extra security the day before after Nichols was found with shanks in each of his shoes. Even after killing the judge and court reporter, the gunman made it down eight flights of stairs and walked out onto the street before being confronted by a deputy, who was shot and killed. 
Freeman has said his department provided the secu­rity the judge requested, but refused to elaborate. Four days after the shootings, he said he would increase the number of deputies at the courthouse and use more stun belts on defendants. 
"We will do everything in our power to keep such a tragedy from ever occurring again," Freeman said in a written statement. 
Police, meanwhile, focused their manhunt on a vehicle carjacked by the suspect -its description appeared on TVs and highway message boards across the state. However, the vehicle was found 13 hours later on a lower level in the same garage where it was stolen, discovered by one of the garage's customers, not police. 
"We should have gone through the entire building," Pennington said. "We didn't, based on the information we had at the time," which was a report that someone saw the vehide exit the garage. 
In the meantime, Nichols allegedly hijacked other cars and lled on the Atlanta com­muter-train systf~m MARTA 
"There was a huge effort under way to catch this guy. But in many ways he was good and sometimes he was just damn lucky," said Gene Wilson, the police chief of MAHTA. 
Although the incident has brought bad publicity for Atlanta, it shouldn't cause lasting damage to the city's drawing power, said Colin Rorrie, president of Dallas­based Meeting Professionals International. 
CHINA 

U.S. defends Pacific, Rice says 
European Union may soon lift embargo imposed on China in 1989 
Associated Press 

BEIJING -Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice suggested Sunday that European govern­ments are irresponsible if they sell sophisticated weaponry to China that might one day be used against U.S. forces in the Pacific. · 
"It is the United States, not Europe, that is defending the Pacific," Rice said. She spoke in Seoul, the penultimate stop on her weeklong tour of Asia. 
South Korea, Japan and the United States are all Pacific powers and all contribute resources to keep the Asia-· Pacific region stable, Rice said. 
The European Union may soon lift an arms embargo on China that was imposed after the deadly 1989 crackdown on pro-democracy protesters in 
Lawyer killed by lethal injections 
Prosecutor and family man murdered via forced cocaine overdose 
Associated Press 

MACON, Mo. -A former prosecutor and family man once known for a firm grasp of the difference between right and wrong, David Masters arrived at his death bound to a chair, his final stop along a road of poor choices. 
Two housemates are accused of being his judge and jury, condemning Masters for ·owing three weeks of rent and making passes at a woman with whom he lived. When the woman pulled out a gun, court papers say, Masters said he'd rather die from drugs -so the father of seven was injected with syringe after syringe of cocaine. 
The 52-year-old's body was found the next day, March 3, near a river in the Ozarks, a couple hundred miles from this small town where he made his name upholding the law. 
"No one in their wildest imagination would ever dream he would succumb to an illicit drug problem and associate with the people he did," said James Foley, a former Macon County prosecutor and retired judge. "They try and rational­ize it, but you couldn't even make this up in TV fiction. That's what his life became." 
No one will say if Masters might have been using drugs as his life fell apart. Since los­ing re-election in 1998.. he'd abandoned clients, s·eparated from his wife and surrounded himself with drug users, his daughter said. 
Brad Funk, an assistant prosecutor under Masters for more than five years in the 1990s, said his one-time men­tor always "tried to do the right thing. That's why it's so shocking, sickening that David ended up such a lost soul." 
Masters came to Macon in 1990, when then-Gov. John Ashcroft tapped him to be the county's prosecutor. 
Masters was a sharp, organ­ized litigator who devoted full-time hours to the part­time job, and had a private law practice on the side to make ends meet. 
Masters often was in the courthouse readying his eases before dawn, then could be seen at his private practice downtown into the wee hours of some mornings. 
"He was as productive as two or three attorneys put together," says Funk, since 2001 an associate circuit judge in Mercer County. "I never questioned his decency or his integrity or his abilities as an attorney. He was an offi­cer of the court, and he took that very seriously." 
The job took a physical toll on Masters, a Diet Coke-swig­ging diabetic who didn't seem to make his health a priority. 
"Some days he just wouldn't look good, his color wouldn't be good or whatever. He just didn't look rested or healthy," said Judy Roberts, who has run the county's circuit clerk's office for the past 11 years. "I just figured he was working too hard, too many hours." 
Masters and his family lived in one of Macon's best-known homes, the 19th century Wardell Mansion, which was on the National H.egister of Historic Places. 
But after two terms, Masters lost re-election in 1998. lie soon seemed overwhelmed by his work. 
In late 2003, an ex-client was arrested, suspected of setting Masters' law office ablaze. That month, court records show, Masters' wife filed for divorce; they separat­ed but never officially ended the marriage. The historic house became a money pit. 
objections to the Taiwan devel­opment with Chinese officials in two days of talks, along with long-standing concerns over Chinese human rights practices and violations of intellectual property rights. 
Hice will also ask China for more help to persuade commu­nist North Korea to return to international nuclear disarma­ment talks. 
The Pyongyang government of Kim Jong II announced last month what the United States 
has  long suspected:  It  has  
already  built  at  least  one  
nuelear weapon.  

The United States, Russia, Japan, South Korea and China began a joint diplomatic effort with North Korea last year aimed at persuading the coun­try to give up its nuclear pro­gram. 
Tiananmen Square. Lifting the embargo would allow sale of technology and weapons that China badly wants to modernize its creaky military. China has recently gone on a military spending spree that Rice said concerns the United States. 
"The European Union should do nothing to contribute," to the possibility that Chinese forces might turn European technolo­gy on Americans, Rice said after meetings with the South Korean president and foreign minister. 
Rice has earlier said that China's recent statements about a possible invasion of Taiwan should give the Europeans pause. China passed a law this month codifying its intention to use military force against Taiwan should the island declare formal independence. 
Rice said she would raise U.S. 

"His life seemed to unravel," Foley says. 
Masters left Macon County for a fresh start around Springfield in southwest Missouri, but he failed to tell dozens of his clients -some already having paid for his services-and his law license was suspended in January 2004. 
Masters fell in with the wrong crowd, by many accounts sinking into a sub­culture of drugs and depres­sion. 
Today, his housemates ­Crystal Broyles, 27, and Thomas Naumann, 49 -and Broyles' sister, 23-year-old Brandi Storment are charged with first-degree murder in his slaying. 
Prosecutors say Storment was at the house and stole some of Masters' possessions but did not inject him with any cocaine. The defendants are scheduled for a prelimi­nary hearing April 1 and are jailed without bail. 
In Macon, gold letters on the glass door of a mostly empty downtown office still read "Law Office of David A. Masters." 

Poker Chips from $4.95;so 
··----Te~~;·H;ld~;;;-·r~bi~~-·· from $199.97 Poker Tables from $299.00 
Rentals Available 
Large Selection of Game Tables, Supplies 
and Table 
Toppers. 


SOS 1 0 St. Rd. 933N • Sooth Bend 
574-272-1617 

Monday, March 21, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
KYRGYZSTAN 
Pro-detnocracy riots protnote negotiation 
Associated Press 
BISIIKEK-Thousands of protesters demanding the res­ignation of President Askar Akaynv rampaged through a southern city Sunday amid growing anger over allegedly fraudulent elections in the for­nwr Soviet republic. 
Tlw government said it was ready to rwgotiate, but opposi­tion leader Kurmanbek Bakiy1w said talks would only he possible if the president himself is involvml. 
"All other lownr level negoti­ations will be just a waste of time," Bakiyev said. 
Snveral people were believod to lw injun~d in thn southern dty of .lalai-Ahad, though it was not dear how many. 
l'rolnswrs also oeeupied gov­ernment buildings in other parts_of Kyrgyzstan, accusing the government of rigging par­liamnntary ballots on Feb. 27 and Mard1 I:l that gave Akayev an overwhelrning majority and won placns for his daughter and son in the legislature. 
European countries and the Unitnd Stales also said the polls were seriously flawed, a charge denied by the govern­ment. 
Some analysts have suggest­ed Kyrgyzstan is ripe for an outburst of the mass protests expnrienced by other post­Soviet eounlries, sueh as those that recently brought pro­Wostern leaders to power in Ukrairw and Georgia. 
Akayev, who has led the Central Asian nation sinee it gained independenee after the 1991 Soviet collapse, was regarded as the most reform­minded leader in the region and the country won praise for its comparative openness. 
But Akayev in recent years has shown increasing signs of cracking down. In 2002, his reputation was tarnished after police killed six demonstrators who Wflre protesting the arrest of an opposition lawmaker. 
Tho Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe issued a statnmont Sunday, urging the government and the opposition to rofrain from using force and to begin a dia­logue. 
In Jalal-Abad, stone-throw­ing protosters stormed a police station, causing some officers to takn to tho roof and fire warning shots in the air, regional governmnnt spokns­man Orazaly Karasartov said. He said smoke could be seen rising from the police station and that protesters brokfl win­dows. 
Police estimatnd the number of protesters at 10,000, but local activist Cholpon Ergcshova said 20,000 pnoplo participated. She said the pro­testers ended the attack on the police station after burning down two of its three buildings and forcing all tho officers to nne.. 
Ergesheva also said the pro­testers had occupied thn mayor's office in Jalal-Abad, after the soldiers guarding it had voluntarily vacated it. 
Jalal-Abad govnrnor Jusup Sharipov said tho government did not have nnough police force in the region to restore order right now. 
As the protests have gathered steam, the opposition has demanded Akayev step down. 
"The authorities' decision to use force against people won't bring any good. It will only pro­voke anger," said Bakiyev, 
leader  of  the  opposition  
Pnopl!l's  Movement  of  
Kyrgyzstan.  

Sunday's riot came a day after police forcibly evicted demonstrators from the gover­nor's office in Jalal-Abad and another government building in the city of Osh. More than a dozen people, including three police officers, were injured and more than 200 demonstra­tors were arrested, police and civic activists said. 
Street rallies across the country have also increasingly gained momentum. On Saturday, about 8,000 protest­ed in three cities. 
Atnerican ends 14-year drought 
Associated Press 
SANTA MONICA, Calif. ­Thomas Mayne, the bad boy of architncturfl for years before reaping international acelaim in his mid-50s, was named Sunday as the winner of the Pritzker Prize, the 11eld's most pr!lstigious honor. 
Mayne, 61, is the first American to win thn Pritzker in 14 years. and only the eighth U.S. architect to win in the 27-year history of the contest. 
The jury cited Mayne ~'or crnating a bold architeetural style that reflects the "unique, somewhat rootless, culture of Southern California" through angular lines and an unfinished, open-ended feel. 
"Thorn Mayne is a product of the turbulent 1960s who has carried that rebflllious attitude and fervent desire for change into his practice, the fruits of which are only now becoming visible," the jury wrote. 
For Mayne, winning the Pritzker is vindication for the years he spent struggling to maintain the purity of his unorthodox ideas. llis stand earned him a reputation as 
an  angry young  man  and  
alienated many elients.  
"My  whole  nssencn  was  

attempting to do something I believed in. I didn't under­stand how to negotiate that notion of the private and the public world," he said in an interview at Morphosis, his Santa Monica studio. "Your whole life you're told you're an outsider and you can't do tha~. ~nd then you're honored for It. 
Mayne will be awarded a $100,000 grant and a bronze medallion on May 31 during a ceremony at tho Jay Pritzker Pavilion in Chicago's Millennium Park. Past win­ners of the Pritzker Prize, sponsored by the family that developed the llyatt Hotel chain, include I.M. Pei, Frank Gehry, Renzo Piano and Hem Koolhaas. · 
Firod from a teaching job at California State Polytechnic. Univ11rsity, Pomona, Maynn founded an altnrnativo archi­teeture school called SCI-Arc in IIJ72 with six eollnaguns and 40 students. That ynar, he started Morphosis and two years latnr won his first award for designing a Pasadnna school attended by his SOil. 
For two decades, Mayne worked in rnlativfl obscurity on local houses, rnstaurants and office buildings and a handful of overseas projnets. Then, in the mid-l990s, a sories of convention-bending designs won Mayne his first major international praise. 
lie has sinen won competi­tions and commissions for an array of major public proj­flcts, including the nnw Alaska state capitol, a new acadnrnic building for Thn Cooper Union in New York, and Nnw York's 2012 Olympic Villago, which will be buill even if the city doosn 't get tho games for that year. 

Governtnent data kept private 
Novel excuses multiply for withholding infornzation from public 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The gov­ernment argues that a health official's requimd public finan­cial disclosure reports should not become public. Some of President Bush's military records were not released because officials did not want to search boxes filled with rat excrement. Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge's public schedules were withheld until he left office. 
Those roadblocks to obtain­ing government data arose in response to requests during the past year by The Associated Press. In recent years, the AP and other regu­lar users of the Freedom of Information Act have been presented with a growing list of never-before-seen excuses for denying the public release of government documents. 
"It's become much, much harder to get responses to FOIA requests, and it's taking much, much longer," said David A. Schulz, the attorney who helps the AP with FOIA requests. "Agencies seem to view their role as coming up with techniques to keep infor­mation secret rather than the other way around. That's com­pletely contrary to the goal of the act." 
It has taken administrative appeals or lawsuits to over­come some obstacles, but not before requesters had to wait -sometimes until the infor­mation sought was no longer useful -and often had to spend hundreds or thousands of dollars for lawyers. 
Other times, ordinary citi­zens were thwarted because they lacked time or money. 
CHILD CARE. 
PROVIDER NEEDED 
We ' re looking for an energetic, kind­
hearted woman to care for a baby in our 
home from 8 a.m. until 5:30 or 6 p.m. 
every weekday, starting immediately. 
Whether journalists, advoca­cy groups or private citizens make thn reqm1sts, the ulti­mato loser is the public, which learns less about its govern­ment, say those who have fought the fights. 
Steve Hendricks, a Montana resident writing a book about tumultuous relations between American Indians and thfl gov­ernment in the 1970s, said he could never afford an expnn­sive legal battle. He said he was fortunate that his wife, an FOIA lawyer, could wage his battle against the FBI to uncover documents the agency at first said did not exist. 
Bush administration officials acknowledge reining in the policies of earlier administra­tions to protect privacy and national security, particularly after the Sept. 11 attacks. 
"We were more attuned to privacy concerns, as Wflll as the security matters, than prior to this administration eoming in," said Mark Corallo, who just retired as the Justice Dopartment's spokesman. 
Corallo said the department relied on recommendations of carenr exports to handle infor­mation release requests. llo said that nlsnwhere "perhaps the bureaucracy took advan­tage of the national security imperative at times to with­hold non-national socurity stuIT." 
Whatever tlw case, some new roadblocks are noV!ll. 
During last year's prnsidnn­tial campaign, thn AP 11led fnd­eral and state suits that uncovered new, long-sought military rncords of Bush's snrvico. 
Weeks arter Texas National Guard officials sworn undnr oath they had relnased nvnry­thing, two retirod Army lawynrs snardwd again under an agreemnnt between the AI' and the Guard and found 3 I 
unreloasnd pages. These 
included orders for high-alti­
tude training in 1972, less

Please call 257-3962 
than three months hnforn Bush abruptly quit !lying. 


Monday, March 21, 2005 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Historic 
•

tnanston auctioned 
Unknown buyer pays $4 million for castle 
Associated Press 

DENVEH -A historic castle 
where John D. Hockefeller and 
Theodore Hoosevelt were guests 
-and where a coal baron's ghost 
is said to haunt the halls -was 
auctioned for $4 million Saturday, 
two years after the ms seized the 
century-old mansion in a fraud 
investigation. 

A Pasadena, Calif., man made 
the winning bid, said John 
Harrison, an IHS special agent. 
The unidentified buyer declined to 
talk with reporters. 

"I had a brief moment to meet 
him, and I think he's going to be a . real asset to the Hedstone com­munity," said .Walter Stanaszek, a University of Oklahoma professor who had the winning bid for a nearby Victorian home. ''I'm just excited to say I have a neighbor 
that owns a castle." 

lHS agents seized the 42-room 
Redstone Castle in the mountains 
near Aspen in March 2003 while 
investigating an international 
Ponzi investment scheme. They 
also seized about $17 million in 
cash from bank accounts and 
race cars worth $2 million. 

The castle's previous owner, 
Leon Harte, was being investigat­
ed before he died in 2003. Court 
documents said Harte and others 
had formed three companies to 
buy the castle and the Victorian 
home for $6 million five years 
ago. 

Investigators say about 1 ,000 
people were bilked of a total of 
$56 million on the promise of 400 
percent investment returns. A 
grand jury indicted seven people 
last year and trial proceedings are 
scheduled for September. 

Proceeds from the auction will 
help reimburse victims, Harrison 
said. 

The sale was the latest twist in 
the castle's almost epic past. 

Teddy Hoosevelt stayed at the 
estate during a hunting trip after 
he left the White I louse; oil tycoon 
John D. Hockefeller did, too. 

But it was nearly abandoned 
after a mining bust, and some say 
the cigar-smoking ghost of its 
builder, coal baron John 
Cleveland Osgood -who died in 
the castle he named Cleveholm 
Manor-still haunts the place. 

The castle, filled with antiques 
and surrounded by a carriage 
house, barn and other outbuild­
ings in the Crystal River Valley 
about 1 70 miles west of Denver, 
was finished in 1902 at a price of 
$2.5 million-an astonishing 
sum at the time. 

It was erected on a mountain­
side overlooking the coal-mining 
town Osgood built for his employ­
ees. 

"It's kind of likn a medieval 
manor. The castle was about an 
aristocratic mile away from the 
village," said Darrell Munsell, 
president of the Hedstone 
llistorical Society. . "It demonstrates Osgood's phi­losophy or industrial paternalism. Osgood believed that his employ­ees should be contented, satisfied workers," said Munsell, who is writing a book about Osgood's labor policies. "lie thought if they were satislied with their condi­tions, they wouldn't join the union, and he would be rewarded with more production and less labor strife." 
Busy with basketball, BET founder to resign 
Sen. McCain: Baseball cannot be trusted 
cable back then," says Herman Penner, a college roommate of Johnson's. "Obviously he dreamed a little bit bigger than that and was successful at it." 
A Mississippi native with a 
master's  degree  from  
Princeton,  Johnson  led  in  
other areas, too.  

He became the country's first black billionaire after BET's sale for $3 billion nearly five years ago. lie is the first black owner of a major sports team, the NBA's first-year Charlotte Bobcats, which Johnson named after himself. 
A lifelong sports fan, Johnson was a partner in the effort to return baseball to the nation's capital, but he pulled 
pline for U.S. Olympic athletes. 
Davis, whose committee sub­poenaed current and former stars and baseball executives to testify Thursday, said he's willing to wait and see how Major League Baseball handles drug testing and punishment in 2005. 
"They've got this season. We'll see how they respond when they find someone testing positive," Davis told CBS. 
Asked about possible govern­ment intervention, baseball's executive vice president for labor relations, Rob Manfred. told CBS, "Commissioner Selig said unequivocally in the hearing 
out to focus on basketball 
before the Washington 
Nationals arrived. 

He owns several Hilton and 
Marriott hotels, one of the country's largest black art col­lections and several film rights. lie has a stake in a jazz record label, is interested in developing real estate and sought unsuccessfully to buy .majority control of Independence Federal Savings Bank, one of the largest black­
owned thrifts. 

His plan to become the first 
black owner of a commercial 
airline failed several years ago 
when the government opposed 
a proposed merger that would 
have created a new carrier he 
sought to own. 

that if Congress decides that fed­eral legislation is appropriate, that he would be supportive." 
In March 2004, McCain's Senate Commerce Committee held a hearing on steroids in baseball, pressure that helped lead to the drug-testing plan that owners and players agreed to in January. 
Several lawmakers were criti­cal of two provisions in that agreement: one that allows play­ers to be fined instead of sus­pended for failing a drug test, and another that calls for testing to be suspended if there's a gov­ernment investigation. 
President to sever ties, focus on NBA team 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Hobert Johnson and Black Entertainment Television are known for one thing: each other. Soon. they could go their separate ways after a prof­itable 25-year relationship. 
Johnson is busy with other projects, including his losing NBA franchise in Charlotte, N.C., while the deal that let him stay on as BET's chief executive after he sold the net­work in 2000 expires this year. 
Stepping down at BET would give Johnson more time to pursue his varied interests. 
A divorced father of two, Democratic Party donor and consummate schmoozer who counts former President Clinton among his friends, Johnson set his sights high early on. 
Not taken seriously when he first talked about serving a then-untapped market, Johnson was 34 when he launched BET -which is cele­brating its silver anniversary this year -from the basement of his Washington home in January 1980. 
It is the country's first and largest black-oriented cable network, and has proved an unmatched success. 
"Nobody had a clue about 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Saying Major League Baseball "can't be trusted," Sen. John McCain warned Sunday that legislation might be needed to force the sport to change its steroids poli­cy. 
The Arizona Republican joined the chorus of congressmen expressing disappointment with baseball's drug-testing plan after testimony from commissioner Bud Selig and union head Donald Fehr at the House Government Reform Committee hearing on steroids Thursday. 

"It just seems to me they can't be trusted," McCain told ABC's 'This Week." 
"What do we need to do? It seems to me that we ought to seriously consider ... a law that says all professional sports have a minimum level of perform­ance-enhancing drug testing," McCain said. 
Committee chairman Tom Davis, H-Va., said on CBS' "Face the Nation" that he agreed with McCain's suggestion that the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency could be called in to govern baseball's testing. The independent agency oversees drug testing and disci­Monday, March 21, 2005 

The Observer + NEWS page II 
Reduced-sugar cereals do not prove healthy 
Experts say popular children's options have same calories, no nutritional advantages 
Associated Press 
Could this bn the end of cereal aisle showdowns between par­mlL'> and swnet-tootlwd tots'! 
New roduced-sugar versions of' popular children's breakfast cnrnals -nvnrything from Froot l.oops to Frostnd Flakes -cer­tainly sound pmmising, but eon­sunwrs might want to hold oil' chiming in whnn Tony tho Tiger says, "They'rn Gr-r-rnat!?" 
Exports who rnviewed the lower-sugar versions of six major brands of' sweetened cnreals at the n~quest of Tho /\ssoeiated Press found they have no signifieant nutritional advantag~~s over their full-sugar counterparts. 
Nutrition seinntists at livn uni­versities found that while the nnw cernals do have loss sugar, thn calories, earbohydrates, fat, f'ilwr and other nutrients are almost idnntkal ti1 tho full-sugar 
enn~als. 
That's because the eereal makers havn replacnd sugar with relinnd carbohydrates to prnsnrve thn erunch. 
Officials at General Mills, Knllogg's and Post wnrn unable to explain why the new cnrnals arn a lwttnr dwiee, but noted thny give eonsumers more options about how much sugar tlwy eat. 
Company officials said they wore rnsponding to parents' dmnands for produeL<> with less sugar and that they aren't daiming these eereals are any hnalthier than the originals. 
Sample roundtrip Student Airfares from Chicago to: 
·-• • •
~

••. 
' •• • 
• StudentUniverse.com 



etics This Wee 
Women's Lacrosse vs. California Tues. March 22nd @ 4:30 PM 
Moose Krause Field* 
That may not be obvious to consumers. 
On some boxes, "~he lower­sugar daim is printed nearly as large as the product's name, and only by carnl'ully comparing the nutrition labels of both versions of a cereal would a shopper know there is little difference between them. 
"You're supposed to think it's healthy," said Marion Nestle, a nutrition professor at New York Univnrsity and author of a book critical of' the food industry's influence on public health. "This is about marketing. It is about nothing elsn. It is not about kids' health." 
Only one eereal, General Mills' Cinnamon Toast Crunch, saw a true calorio t•eduction, dropping from 130 calories to 120 per three-l(mrths cup serving. 
The reduced-sugar versions of Kellogg's Frosted Flakes and Froot Loops; General Mills' Cocoa Pulls and Trix; and Post's Fruity Pebbles all have the same number of calories per serving. 
Blame the calorie woes on crunch. To preserve cereals' taste and texture, sugar is replaced with other carbs that have the same calories as sugar and are no better for you. 
That's also why not even dia­beties benefit from these cere­als. The body treats all refined carbohydrates the same, whether they are sugars or !,'l'ains, said Dr. Lilian Cheung of the llarvard School of Public llealth. 
''The changes don't buy you 

STUDENT AIRFARES 1M STUDY ABROAD 
Whether you're headed abroad straight from campus or from home, StudentUnlverse.com has the lowest airfares to the places where· students are studying abroad this summer. 
anything," she said. "From a health point of view, I r~~~lly ean·~ see the dtflrmmce. 
The new cereals were introduced last year as atten­tion on the nation's obesity epidemic forced food compa­nies to rethink marketing strate­gies. 
The $6.2 billion cold breakfast cernal industry has good reason to pay attention. Nearly 90 percent of chil­dren ages 6-12 reg­ularly eat cereal, according to con­sumer research firm NPD Group. Two-thirds of them eat sweetened cereals. 
/\nd while overall cereal sales have been sliding, sales of reduced-sugar courtesy I cereals grew by almost 50 percent last year, account­ing for nearly $357 million in with the pricier no-calorie sales, according to ACNielsen. sweetener Splenda, upping the 
To create sweetened cereals cost per pound by as much as with cross-generational appeal, $1.12 over the full-sugar cere­Kellogg's simply cut the sugar, als. and its price for reduced-sugar Hesearchers at five universi­Frosted Flakes is the same as ties were hard-pressed to lind the original. advantages of the lower-sugar 
llowever, Post and General cereals. Even the cereal compa­Mills replaced some of the sugar nies had a hard time. 
Frosted Flakes is a favorite children's cereal available in a reduced-sugar version. 
Tired of Being Told WHAT to Think About Social Security Reform? How About a Discussion of HOW to Think About It? 
Come to the Bipartisan Panel Discussion on Social Security on Wednesday, March 23 
Debartolo 102 6:00-S:OOpm 
LTHLKL 
Baseball vs. Cincinnati 
Softball vs. w. Michigan Wed. March 23rd @4:00 PM 
Ivy Field IFree Admission! I 
Home-opener! L..---------J. ·The first 250 fans will receive a long sleeved 
VATICAN CITY 
St. Peter's garners thousands at lllass 
Pilgrims flood square for Holy Week service 
Associated Press 
V/\TIC/\N CITY -Tens of thousands of pilgrims lillnd St. Peter's Square for Palm Sunday Mass, hoping for an appearance by ailing Pope John Paul II, who was unabln to preside at the ceremony that ushers in Holy WnPk for the first time in his 26-year papa­cy. 
Cardinal Camillo Huini, thn pope's viear for Home, led tho service, but the Vatican said John Paul might make a brief appearance. !lis third-floor window above the square remained open, with thn red papal banner outside. 
!\ long line of cardinals, bish­ops and priests holding olivn branches and palm ~onds walked into the square in pro­cession at the start of thn Mass. 
Potted olive trees surrounded the obelisk at the center of the square, and row after row of gray plastic chairs were lined up for the Mass, which com­memorates Christ's triumphant entry into Jerusalem. 
"We eertainly hopn to see the pope," said /\nna Prati, bring­ing her visiting sister from Turin to the square. "lin likes to surprise." 
John Paul, who was dis­charged from the hospital last Sunday, has long presided over the ceremony marking the start of the most important week in the Homan Catholic liturgical year and whieh has been one of this pope's favoritn appointments. 
"It will be an unusual opnn­ing, that of Holy Wonk" without the pope at Palm Sunday Mass, Vatican Hadio commented. 
In his homily, Huini spoke of' Christ's ordeal and the "drama and mystery" of suffering and its meaning for humanity. The Italian cardinal said Christ's cross brings "new energies" and "shines with spoeial clarity on the weary face of' the Holy Father." 
The pope is officially conva­lescing at the Vatican after Feb. 24 throat surgery to insert a tube in his windpipe and ease his second breathing cri­sis in less than a month. 

Tl···IE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 12 
Monday, March 21, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
T/Je Indepnuknt, Daily NnQ8paper SerrJing Notre ihlme tmd Saint Mary's 
1'0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR 8USJNFSS MANAGER Par Leonard Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPoRrs EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631"6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsmc@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu. 
StENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of rhe University ofNotre Dame du l.ac and Saint Mary's 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisementS based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofrhe aurhors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerters ro rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Claire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ob~crvcr (USPS 599 2-4000} is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Asub.scription to The Observer i5 $100 for om: academic year; $55 for one sem~rer. 
The Obsc:rver is publishW at: POSTMASTER 024 Sourh Dining Hall Send address corrccdom (o: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 ThcOb~~ervct Periodical postage paid ilr None Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional m;tiling offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre D!tmc, IN .-16556-0779 
1ltc Oll!lcrvcr i5 a mcmhcr ofthe Associated Pres.~. All ~production right~ ace te.\Crvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
I need a.. hero 
This past week, I couldn't help but think back to that classic "Liar, Liar" scene in which a desperate Jim Carrey is dragged out of a courtroom scream­ing, "But I'm Jose Canseco! I'm Jose Canseco!" Yes, even 
Joey

though recent events 
Falco
might lead one to believe otherwise, 

there actually was a Forty Ounces to time when emulating Falco Jose Canseco was the cool thing to do. After all, at least in some respects, he was a hero. 
Not only did he and fellow "Bash Brother" Mark McGwire lead the Oakland Athletics to three consecutive World Series appearances as a notori­ous tag team of home run hitters, but posters featuring the two hulks posing with their biceps flexed also dotted the bedroom walls of Little Leaguers all across America, myself included. Without fail, throughout most of the early '90s, if my eyes were not glued to the television screen watching the com­paratively lackluster New York Yankees and my own personal uber-hero, Don Mattingly, you could bet that I was run­ning around my living room swinging a yellow plastic wiffle ball bat in the hopes of hitting an unlucky household object with the force of a Bash Brother grand slam. Oh, those were the days. 
Granted, it was a lot easier to find a hero in the sports world back when we were growing up. The multi-million dollar advertising deals that tend to go to the heads of today's top athletes really only emerged on the scene after the Michael Jordan era, so the holier­than-thou attitudes of a Barry Bonds or a Kobe Bryant were typically never an issue. Professional athletes were blessed with unthinkable God-given tal­ents, and they never felt the need to appear on ESPN telling us exactly how much better than us they really were, and we loved and respected them for that. Life was good. 
Speaking of everyone's favorite Los 
II' 

Angeles Laker, the typical American sports fan also never had to worry about their heroes showing up on tele­vision defending themselves against charges of rape (Bryant), assault (Ron Artest), murder (O.J. Simpson, Jayson Williams), steroid use (Canseco, McGwire, Sammy Sosa, et. al.) or drug use (Ricky Williams, the entire NBA). Rape, murder and drugs, after all, only existed in AI Pacino movies. I'm pretty sure the only guy I knew growing up who used performance-enhancing steroids was the gargantuan Hussian boxer in "Hocky IV." 
Professional sports were simply an arena for the best Little League ath­letes who became the best high school athletes who later were the best college athletes to have the honor of playing the games they loved more than any­thing in front of millions of hot dog-eat­ing fans. It was a natural progression to greatness that every little boy want­ed to take, and steroids, felonies and ego trips simply were not a part of the picture. That was, of course, until something went terribly wrong, and those heroes on our posters, trading cards and cereal boxes ended up in our courtrooms, prison cells and congres­sional hearings. 
Switching gears for a second, I should also note that professional athletes were not the only heroes and role mod­els who provided the driving force behind much of the child development of America. There were the billionaire inventors turned businessmen -men like Bill Gates and Steve Jobs-who certainly inspired many of my more financially-savvy peers with imaginings of inconceivable wealth and fame. 
There were the beautiful and talent­ed heroes of Hollywood -stars like the gorgeous Julia Roberts and the incom­parably-cool Sean Connery -who motivated would-be actors and actress­es to stick with their pipe dreams of cinematic success. 
There were the legendary and inspi­rational political heroes of history ­great leaders like Presients George Washington, Abraham Lincoln and Franklin Delano Hoosevelt -who helped direct the futures of budding politicians. Generally speaking, no mat­ter whom you were and what you wanted to do with your life, there was always a hero out there to help drive you to turn your dreams into realities. 
Cue Canseco and his 304-page piece of literary lilth, "Juiced," and the steroid scandal in Major League Baseball found itself reignited. Cue Enron and WorldCom and the business world became a bastion of greed, scan­dal and corruption. Cue Paris Hilton, Pamela Anderson and Hobert Blake, who forced Hollywood to begin to look more like a hedonistic sin bin than the euphoric Shangri-La profiled in "Lifestyles of the Hich and Famous." Cue President Bill Clinton's oral office and President George W. Bush's neo­conservative imperialism, and even the presidency lost its luster as the head of state, commander in chief and hero of heroes for the free world. 
As a result, we have reached a cross­roads in American society in which our youth are now faced with a dangerous hero dilemma. They can either set their sights on a future as a thug (50 Cent), a an alleged rapist (Bryant), a loose star (Lindsay Lohan), a thief (Kenneth Lay) or a Hepublican (see all), or they can set off on their difficult journeys into the gloomy caves of adulthood without heroes by their sides to light the way to success. Call me pessimistic, but I just don't think they're going to make it. 
Not without their heroes. Not without their Jose Cansecos. 
Joey Falco is a sophomore American Studies major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be reached at jfalco@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Sports Megan O'Neil Justin Schuver 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Katie Perry Chris Khorey Tricia de Groot Ryan Kiefer 
'True heroism is remarkably sober,
In your NCAA bracket, how 
ISubmit aLetter 
very undramatic. It is not the urge 
Viewpoint Scene 
many teams do you have left in 
to surpass all others at whatever
Sarah Vabulas Christie Boisen 
cost. but the urge to serve others,
Graphics Illustrator your Sweet 16? 
at whatever cost." 

Ito the Editor at
Desiree Zamora Meg Dwyer 
Vote by Wednesday at 5 p.m. 
Arthur Ashe 

Iwww.ndsmcobsefVer.com
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
athlete 
• 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Monday, March 21, 2005 page 13 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Symposium on women in war biased 
I find tlw Iwad lirw from tlw March I R issun of Thn Ohsnrvnr, "Symposium to dd>atn wonwn in baltlns," about Saint Mary's upcoming "Womnn, War, and l'naen: FIHninisllnlnrvnnl.ions in a Tinw of Conlliet" symposium vory disingenuous, as no dnhatn Pxists in this program. Hatlwr, it is a propaganda nfTorl against tlw wars in Iraq, Afghanistan and tho lsnwli "o('.cupalion" of l'alnslinn. 
I would nvnn dnscrilw some of the SJwaknrs fnaturnd as anli-Sf1milic. For nxampln, pont Lisa Suhair Majaj wrote a pomn -found at www.f'nministpmu:f1nnt­work.org-honoring "martyr" Hachnl Corrin, who was "killnd by an lsraoli bull­doznr whiln trying to prnvnnt the domoli­tion of a l'alnstinian family's house." lmagnry in this poPm evoked Tianannwn Squarn and thn studnnls dmnonstraling for dnmocraey and frnndorn in 19H9. 
Hadwl Corrin had nothing in common with thosn studnnl demonstrators, thou­sands of whom were killed or imprisoned for voicing tlwir support for democracy an£! fn~mlom. Corrie, contrary to thn imagnry nvoknd in Majaj's poem, was killed while slw was attempting to impedf1 an lsranli bulldoznr knocking down the honws of Palestinian terrorists and build­ings hiding tunnnls through which illegal wnapons wnrn bning smuggled through by tPrrorists. 
Additionally, Corrin was a mnrnbnr of tlw lnlnrnational Solidarity Movement, a lnrrorisl organization which urges armed uprising against lsralll. While Corrie did not ask to din in this accident, neitlwr did thn hundrnds of truly innocent Israelis murdnrnd by l'alnstinian terrorists in tho suicidn bombings of recent yflars, which arn terrorist attacks akin to our Sept. 11, 2001. 
Another work of Majaj, an essay found at www.afsc.org, accuses Israelis of viola­tions of the Gmwva Accords. In a region openly hostile to its very oxistm1ee, Israel has for rwarly 60 years been a bnacon or hopn, democraey and freedom while also acting as an inspiration to millions around the world. Its citizens have been victim­ized by terrorist attacks on an unpreee­denlml seale for decades. Israel never laundws military action unprovoked, it nnver deliberately targets civilians, and it has never lacked accountability when tragedy strikes. Accusing Israel of violat­ing the Gnneva Accords plays right into tlw tnrrorists' playbook. 
Perhaps the organizers or this forum ­and the other speakers on the agenda ­missed tho free and fair elections recently conducted in Afghanistan, Iraq and among the Palestinians. 
Perhaps the organizers missed the pur­pin fingers of Iraqis lifted sky-high into the air after voting for the first lime in their livns. 
Was anyone supportive of' the Afghan and Iraqi wars invited to respond to what looks like a very biasnd, one-sided pro­gram'? 
I fear that acadnmie discussion is bning sliflnd beforn it even begins if feminism is only defined in an anli-Unitnd States, anti-Israel and anti-democratic frame­work. 
While I am very proud of my degree from Saint Mary's, I am very disappointed in my school for sponsoring this sympo­sium. 
Lisa Budzynski alumna Class of 1998 March 18 

U-WIRE 
Congress should not have expected players to nam_e nam.es 
After hoing threatened with contempt if they did not appear, five current or former Major Lnague Baseball supnr­stars sal in front of Congress on 
Thursday.  Staff  
Tho House  Editorial  
Government Hef'orm  
Committen had eallod  Ball State  
on them to eome elean about the use of steroids in basnball. It  UniversityThe Daily News  

was nationally telovised on ESPN and highly promoted by thn media. Was this going to bn the day that the big bomb fell on MLB and busted all those rneords from the "Steroid Era'?" 
In a packed hearing room, with cam­eras shoved in their facos, Joso Canseeo, Sammy Sosa, Mark McGwire, Haf'ael Palmero and Curt Schilling looked straight ahead and said, well, nothing nnw. 
No namns were namnd, and no player admitted to having over used steroids nxenpl for Canseco, who has dono so previously on a number or oeeasions. 
Congress was hoping to shed some light on the issue of' steroids, and what it got was a handful or baseball's brightosl stars from tho past two decades zipping thflir lips. 
This should have all been expected though. The hearing took place in front of a very eritieal public nye, and Congress 
offered no immunity to any of the play­ers. 
Admitting to using steroids in this set­ling, under these circumstances left players with nothing to gain and every­thing to lose. 
As MeGwire, who refused to answer a number of times whether he had used steroids, said, "If a player answers, 'No,' he simply will not be believed. If he answers, 'Yes,' he risks public scorn and endless government investiga­tions." 
With that in mind, it would be ridicu­lous for Congress to believe that these l'ive players, three of whom are still active, could possibly be candid on such a sensitive issue. 
Any steroid mess in baseball, which would not be surprising, needs to be eleaned up, one way or another. But Congress needs to realize that using intimidation and pressure are probably not tho most effective taeties in this sit­uation. 
If Congress pushes on in this manner, it will fail to go deep into the issue and continue to strike out. 
This editorial originally appeared on March 18 in The Daily News, the daily publication at Ball State University. 
The views expressed in this editorial are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
U-WIRE 
Thou shall not ••• 

I have never been a particularly rnligious person. My inquisitive nature and gnneral obstinacy have always made it dillicult for me to follow rigid doctrine or trust in 
blind l:aith. . Sowmya 
Orgamzed reb-Krishnamurth gion is often con­tradictory, archa­University of ic and divisive, Michigan and those who Michigan Daily preach the loud­est from the pulpit arn often the most hypocritical and corrupt. So I've always adhered to a homemade dogma of being a good person and worshiping whatever God(s) exist in my own personal way. I feel that others have the freedom to vennr­ate or not venerate, whatever the ease may be, as they deem appro­priate. 
Because of our nation's long­standing tradition of separating the church from the state, Americans have been able to practice this "live and let live" mentality for over two centuries. But now a pair of U.S. Supreme Court eases threaten to destroy that very sacred freedom. 
In one ease, two Kentucky execu­tives posted the Ten Commandments on courthouse walls, while in the other ease, Thomas Van Orden filed suit against the placement of a 6-foot­tall monument of the Ten Commandments on the grounds of the Texas state capitol building bearing a symbol representing Jesus Christ with the words "I am the Lord thy God." 
The Bush administration and 26 state attorneys general have, to no surprise, filed a brief supporting the Texas and Kentucky Decalogue dis­plays. 
The ostensibly landmark eases could rewrite precedent on whether the commandments and similar religious symbols that dot public spheres are a federal endorsement of religion or simply a reflection of the Judeo-Christian influence in 
U.S. history. There is nothing explicit in our Constitution that demarks a separation between church and state, but pro­Separatists have long read the First Amendment's "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof ... " as a govern­montallaissez-faire over religion. 
Despite federal regulations against overt religious pageantry, the majority of Americans are at least nominally Christian. Consequently, our country has always had a long-standing tradi­tion of civic faith: The proverbial "In God We Trust" monetary seal, holiday songs performed in public schools during Christmas, the Pledge of Allegiance and the Supreme Court f'reseo of Moses. Furthnrmorn, according to a recent CNN/USA Today/Gallup poll. U1 pnr­cont of Americans support tho dis­play of the Ten Commandments in courthouses. 
There is nothing fundamentally wrong with intermingling devotion into public life if such action can invoke the betterment of sodety through tolerance, personal disd­pline and saerilke and kindness toward others. And given the pres­ent tenuous staln of Ameriea's social fabric-malaises like vio­lence and materialism abound ­increased spirituality doesn't semn all that bad of an idea. If displaying the Ten Commandments could dHerease the national divorce rate or mend broken homes, I would wholeheartedly support it. But real­istically speaking, little will actually change-religious imagery is meaningless without soeietal rein­forcement, and we arn far too over the edge to be salvaged by a few slabs of stone. 
What is more detrimental than propagation of the status quo is tho invidious distinction that will undoubtedly result betwmm the religious majority and minority. Permitting the Decalogue in public areas theorotieally moans that opposing devotional material can be publicly viewnd too. Yet given the faet that most religions are at odds with one another, what is thn liknli­hood that alternative faiths will be accepted in an overwhelmingly Judeo-Christian country'? Most pno­ple in this nation do not even acknowledge that anything exists outside the so-callnd "Big 3" reli­gions-Christianity, Judaism and Islam (Islam only because of the obsessive fear after Sept. 11 ). Ignorance is usually not condudvn to liberalism, so I wonder how gung ho such individuals would be seeing a picture of Lord Krishna hanging in their post ollieo or a 6-foot bronze statue of a laughing Buddha on the White House lawn. 
I have a hunch thi1y would not be too pleasnd. 
Only when, if ever, we get to that point of universal acceptance of' every faith is it fnasible to conceive blurring the line between church and the government. Untilthnn, religion should be kept a personal matter away from the public sphere and out of the courts. 
This column originally appeared on March 18 in the Michigan Daily. the daily publication at the University ofMichigan. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observl!r. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Monday, March 21, 2005 
CONCERT REVIEW 

Ladysmith Black Mambazo is 
still mesmerizing 

By MARIA SMITH Senior SraffWrirer 

Not many groups out there have been touring as long as Ladysmith Black Mambazo, and it shows. 
The singer-dancers in the group took the stage so comfortably you would think there wasn't a huge crowd of people watching them. And yet there were near­ly 1000 mesmerized spectators at the show. 
Mambazo is a cultural icon, and their music is technically excellent, but even beyond that their performance is simply infectious. Mambazo has a goofy stage presence that promptly breaks down any barrier that might stand between a world-renowned group and its audience. Being able to clown around onstage is a mark of a natural performer, and Mambazo catches its audience by doing exactly that. 
Mambazo's performance was certainly not silly. Several songs related to political and other important issues from the group's native South Africa. The group performed "Homeless," its most famous hit ballad from Paul Simon's "Graceland" album, which despite its tranquil sound is about a dark time in South African his­tory. 
And yet there remained a sense that just as South Africa's history couldn't keep Mambazo from worldwide fame, neither could it keep the singers from enjoying their music. Some lines of the songs were beau-tifully poignant, but overall the show was joyful. 
Some of the performers in Mambazo have retired and been replaced over the years -four of founder Joseph Shabalala's sons have notably begun to sing with the group -bui some have been singing for decades. Shabalala and several others rank right up there with Bono for staying in amazing physical shape throughout a career. All eight per­formers danced and kicked their feet up through entire numbers and barely broke a sweat. Few men Shabalala's age would have the urge, or the capability, to dance and jump right alongside their sons onstage. 
Mambazo recently won a Grammy Award for their release "Haise Your Spirit Higher," proving that as members have come and gone, the quality of the group's music has not decreased. Mambazo sings with the same tight, smooth harmonies that brought them to world attention 30 years ago. 
Mambazo also released an album with the English Chamber Orchestra in 2005. While the recording is as excellent as all of Mambazo's crossover work, this per­formance was proof that the group's music needs nothing else to back it up. 
Photos courtesy of Patrick C. Ryan 
The strong bass, and the distinct tone of Shabalala's tenor, might sound strange to American ears at first, but it doesn't take long to realize that these singers are masters of a capella harmony and per­formance. The way Mambazo's music started may still be its best face. 
Mambazo's universal appeal is obvious -their music, and their shtick onstage, is the kind that can appeal to anyone of any age. Forty years on the road have not slowed the group down, and if Sunday night's performance is any kind of evidence, they won't stop touring any­time soon. Mambazo's recordings are excellent, but seeing the group live shows an entirely different face of their per­formance style. Anyone who had the chance to get this first-hand feel for the singers of Ladysmith Black Mambazo was lucky to catch the group in action. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Monday, March 21, 2005 
page 15 
THEATRE REVIEW 
'Angels in Amefica' full of emotions and laughs 
Hy CHRISTIE BOLSEN Assiswnt Scene Editor 
!\ l l he begi n IIi n g 0 r part Tw0 0 r "1\ngnls in 1\nwrica," a character whoso husband left her wanders around in a mystilind daze. 
"Wiwn your lwart breaks, you should din," she says. 
This lirw captures tho app<~al of Tony Kush rw r 's two-part "!\ n g n Is in 1\nwriea." The St. l•:dward's llall Playnrs performed thn sncond part last weekend as a staged reading. Even if the audi­enen can't nxaetly identify with an apparnntly insane woman, or· any of the otlwr quirky eharaetnrs, the tlwmcs rnach out to nvnry p<~rson who has nvnr fnlt brokenlwart<~d. hopeful, angry, eon­rusml or bdrayml. 
"Part Two: Perestroika" was pnr­formed Saturday and Sunday in tho Washington llall l.ah Theatre as a bene­lit; "Part One: Millennium 1\pproadws" was perrormnd last semester. Admission was froe, but donations worn collected at tlw door for tho 1\moriean Foundation for !\IDS rnseareh. Tho Pulitzer Prizo­winning play addresses many issues that spark controversy on this campus -homosexuality, religion, polities, racism and morn. 
J·:al'h part of "1\ngels in 1\mnrica" is long enough and eomprelwnsive enough to stand alone, tackling thnso difTieult issuns freely and with plnnty or sexuali­ty. profanity and hysterically funny ono­lirwrs and scenns. Last somnstnr's pro­dudion introduced the east of eomplox <·haractnrs, who interact during the Hnagan prnsidnncy as !\IDS spreads in 1\nwriea. 
Prior Walter (1\ndre Valdivia) has 1\II>S-and as if he doesn't have nnough stress, hn is chosen by angels to 
be a prophet. Hoy Cohn (Scott Wagner), based on the actual attorney who became famous f'or high-profile anti­communist cases and celebrity clients, also has !\IDS but is in denial. Belize (Mark Hoss), a gay black nurse, provides comie relinf as well as a voice or reason and truth; Joe (!\dam Bonosky), a gay Mormon man who is married to llarper (Lnna Caligiuri), struggles with his homosexuality throughout tho play. 
Caligiuri saw hnr character, with all of hor oddities, as representing any man who makes no apologies for being homosexual, black or a nurse. 
llis altitude contrasts nieely with another of the best-played characters, the hateful yet hysterically funny Hoy. Hoy's offensive tirades keep up despite Belize's attempt to give him advice on his treatmnnt, so Hoy asks him why lw should listen to him instead of his WASP doctor. 
"lie's not queer, I am," Belize says. 
Tho play is overllowing with lines that 
strike nerves, but 
it was tho play's 

woman who has • handling of
11Angels in America
been wounded and homosexuality donsn't know what Part Two: Perestroika" and, for that to do with hersolf'. 
matter, snxualily 
"You don't havn in general that to bn a Mormon hit hardnst. The who married a Angel America's elosotnd homosexu­Writer: Tony Kushner sex seones were al to idnntify with Directors: Lena Caligiuri and Mark Ross a combination of 
her," Caligiuri said. She pointed out that although llarpor dqesn't deal well with her heartbreak, she shows out­wardly what most girls reel inwardly ­she falls apart in a way that most people hide. 
Jon's mother, llannah (Ellen Kennedy), is more compassionate than most of the crowd, although she claims not to fncl pity. Louis (Joe Garlock), who left Prior out of fnar of his !\IDS, helps the uncom­fortable Joe accept his sexuality. Through it all, Cricket Slattery as the 1\ngel America haunts Prior about being a prophet. 
Tho actors' portrayals of these pas­sionate characters are what make the lengthy production worth a viewing. Prior and Belize, even with the tragedy of all tho dying in their lives, are con­stantly hilarious -espncially Belize. lie's the stereotypieal flamboyant gay 
the narrator 

(Kate Konahan) reading graphic passages and the actors' Meg Hyan-1~sque orgasm per­formances. Some of the seript's scenes seemed gratuitous, although most served a greater purpose of shining light on sexual and emotional issues. 
The seript is full or heartbreak, but also makes room for forgiveness and hope. Prior and Harper epitomize tho phenomnnon of not being able to move forward from unrequited lovn. lingering instead in the past and what went wrong. When Louis and Joe make "Swingers" -like reappearances, though, their rejected lovers must rnevaluato the one thing they've been wanting for so long. 
Dealing with sueh weighty issues for three hours could have been quite draining, so the lighter moments were refreshing. One or the funniest seenes was when Prior and Bnlize decide to confront .Joe at tho l:ourthousn where he works, as Prior snaps, "I have a hobby now! Haunting people!" lie yells at .Jon for breaking hearts, while Bnlize is interested mainly in snning what .Jon looks likn. Prior then pnH:ends to pm­tend to bn a mnntal pati11nt and tries to make his "nursn" play along with grnat rnsults. 
''I'm trapped in a world of white (WO­ple, that's my problnm," BPlizn laments. 
Later, Prior ends up at the hospital with .Jon's mothnr and mattnr-of-factly introduces Hannah as "my ox-lover's lover's Mormon mot.lwr." 1\l'tnr llannah dnseribns men as lumpish and stupid, hn roads with surprisn. 
"I wish you would bo morn trun to your demographic proliln," hn tnlls lwr. 
For co-dirnetor and aetor Hoss, his favoritn message of the play eamn dur­ing the monologun at the nnd about lif'<~ on narth -even with nvnrything that happnns, thorn. are still pnopln earing for us. lin thought. that the play's pr<~s­entation hnlpnd it be more thought-pm­voking and startling. 
"It brings all t.hnsn things into vnry sharp contrast, in a way you'rn not us1~d to dnaling with," Hoss said. 
Co-dirnetor and aetor· Caligiuri said that her favnritn messagn in tho play was in Prior's epilogue, when hn says they, thn !\IDS suffnrnrs, won't die "secret dnaths" anymore. 
"That's why I wantnd to do it," Caligiuri said. "To bring the sneret deaths out, so that pnople can talk about it and realize this happens to pnopln." 
Those interestnd in donating to !\IDS rnsearch can mnail mross@nd.edu or go to www.amfar.org. 
Contact Christie Boisen at cbolsen@nd.edu 
BooK REVIEW 
Novel highlights hilarious shopping antics 
By SARAH YAHULAS Scene Critic 
"Confessions or a Shopaholic" is the pnrl'nd gntaway. Tho lirst two pages of Sophin Kinsella's high-energy novel are tlw hook as the roader is immediately dmwn into the dnvnloping plot. 
Thn hook's main thomn is just what the covn r suggests -"going broke the haunting bills, letters and phone calls, Becky spends enormous amounts or money on a daily basis for things she bnlieves are necessities. llownver; in any other person's mind, her buying habits arn highly unhealthy and unnec­essary." But she continues and finds great joy in doing so. 
Beeky works as a 11naneial journalist in downtown London and lives in a 
beautiful apart­
ment with hnr 
was never this best friend,
Confessions of a 
much fun Suzy, in K i n s ~~ II a's In ad Shopaholic London's trendi­character, Bncky 
est neighbor­Bloomwood, finds hood alongside lwrsnlf in a f'inan­her group or cial dnbaeln with socialite friends, stacks of' bills from Author: Sophie Kinsella com plcte with a 
Visa, hnr bank and Publisher: Delta othnr placns Bncky likns to shop. Sho givns hnr host niTorts to duck out of the hills, ynt knnps shopping as though she is not in dnbt. 
1\t orw point, Bm~ky picks up the mail, sens a bill f'rorn her bank an~ slides it into a lwlo in thn ground that workers arn about to lill with cmnent. 1\ny tac­tics that will allow Bncky to claim shn rwvnr saw the bill are considered. She <~an hn quite crnative, and hnr actions are simply so absurd that she makes you laugh until you cry. 
The problem with Beeky is that she's a shopaholie. She can't makn herself stop buying the most frivolous things, no matter how hard she tries. Despite closet full of the 
season's chicest 
fashions. 
Healizing she is in trouble, Bocky lirst attempts to cut baek her addiction by purchasing a book called "Controlling Your Cash," by David E. Barton. llcr efforts to see her pitfalls and what she spends money on are quite hilarious. Every page was full or laughter detail­ing how Becky manages to dig herself deeper into debt. 
Beeky then attempts to make more money by getting another job and by making crafts out of her own home. But both or these only provide more trouble for Becky. She certainly has a knack for getting in tight spots. When something goes wrong for Becky, she turns to shopping to feel better. This does not help her financial situation, but she feels it eases her emotions. 1\nd that's the important thing for her. 
Finally, after her spit of bad luck, Becky actually finds a story that offers her some interest. llcr neighbors are in trouble, and she wants to help them. !\!though she is not eon­fident in her skills as a reporter, she gives it her best shot. Littln docs she know the events to follow will ehange her life forever -both socially and financially. 
Kinsella is a former financial journalist and the author or the four bestselling "Shopaholie" novels, in addition to her stand-alone New York Times bestseller, "Can you keep a Secret?" Sho lives in England, where she is at work on her next novel. Kinsella attended university at Oxford, where she studied polities, philosophy and economies before getting her f'irst job as a junior assistant on a magazine for retirees. 
Kinsella's books are sold in more than 31 countries and 
are translated into more than 30 lan­guages. She is married, has two sons, and her husband heads the classics department at a boy's grammar school in England. Kinsella, as mentioned on her Web site, loves to shop but likes to 

t -· 
i"' 

I . I, ~ :. 
·t-' 
-

think that shn knnps herself in bntter ehnck than her character, Bncky 
Bloom wood. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday. March 21, 2005 
MEN'S NCAA TOURNAMENT 
Louisville routs Georgia Tech, heads to Sweet 16 
who made a thrilling run to the history with a victory thatDuke drops Miss. St. title game last year. Though moved Duke into the round of they returned almost the entire 16.
63-55; runs end for 

team, they looked more like The tears will come only when Vermont, Bucknell newcomers than crusty veter­this unlikely team plays its final ans against the Cardinals and game.The top-seeded Blue Associated Press their 2-3 ·zone. They trailed by Devils assured themselves of at double digits less than five min­least one more game with a 63­
Francisco Garcia scored 18 of utes into the game, and ended 55 victory over Mississippi State his 21 points in the first half up shooting less than 38 per­in the second round of the
and Taquan Dean stopped any 
cent. Austin Hegional on Sunday.
hope Georgia Tech had for a 

Luke Schenscher led the "Coaches don't win games,
rally with three straight 3-point­Yellow Jackets with 13, but the players do," Krzyzewski said.
ers, sealing a 76-54 victory that rest of Georgia Tech's offense "Look, I love this group of kids, sent Louisville to the regional was largely ineffective. Jarrett it's as good a group as I've ever
semifinals ('or the first time 
Jack had 11 points, Will Bynum coached ... and whenever theysince 1997. 
had eight and B.J. Elder was have played their last game,Dean finished with 14 points, 
held to just three. that is when I will truly be emo­all but two on 3-pointers, and 
The Cardinals were sure tional."
also had six rebounds and two 
they'd locked up a top seed Daniel Ewing handled the
assists. Larry O'Bannon added after beating Memphis to win offense and Shelden Williams

16 for the fourth-seeded 

the Conference USA tourna­took care of defense to get
Cardinals (31-4), who have won ment, and made no secret of Coach K his record 66th tourna­20 of their last 21. 
their disgust when they didn't ment victory, moving him ahead
As the final seconds ticked 
get one. of Smith at the top of the list. It
down, the thousands of 
Worse, they drew the fourth took a reminder from J.J.
Cardinals fans who were lining seed in the Albuquerque Redick for the Blue Devils (27 -5) up Saturday night to buy left­Regional, behind lightly regard­to get the milestone win. 
over tickets started chanting ed Washington, Wake Forest
"Sweet 16! Sweet 16!" Garcia Wisconsin 71, Bucknell 62
and Gonzaga . 
.was beaming as he came out of Maybe Bucknell could've the game and hugged coach Duke 63, Mississippi St. 55 found a scheme to stop Hick Pitino, who improved to The celebration was muted, Wisconsin's Mike Wilkinson or 29-9 in 11 NCAA tournament emotions kept in check. Never Zach Morley. Handling both, appearances. mind that Mike Krzyzewski had however, was too much for the 
It was a swift end for the fifth­just passed Dean Smith for the upstart Bison. 
seeded Yellow Jackets (20-12), most wins in NCAA tournament The 6-foot-8 forwards consis­tently put themselves in all the right places, especially when things were tight in the second half, carrying the Badgers to a 71-62 victory Sunday in the sec­ond round of the NCAA tourna­ment that sent 14th-seeded the NCAA's round of 16. He fin­and nation pulling for them, it Bucknell back to its ished with 23 points and nine would be tough to overcome. I Pennsylvania campus with plen­rebounds. tell you, if I wasn't playing ty to be proud of nonetheless. Michigan St. 72, Vermont 61 against them, I'd be pulling for 
Morley, who was shut out in An afterthought during the them." Maurice Ager scored 19 28 minutes of a first-round win regular season and sentimental points and Paul Davis had 11 over Northern Iowa, was 6-of-7 second choice in the NCAAs, points and 14 rebounds for with three 3-pointers and 15 Michigan State finally is step­Michigan State (24-6). points. His tap-in with 8:41 left ping out of the shadows. Izzo improved to 21-6 in the put the Badgers (24-8) ahead The Spartans advanced to the tournament -a winning per­for good, then he protected the Austin Regional semifinals on centage second among active lead with rebounds on the next Sunday with a 72-61 victory coaches to Duke's Mike two defensive stands. He fin­over 13th-seeded Vermont, the Krzyzewski -and set the ished with eight boards. plucky school with the wacky Spartans up with a matchup 
The Bison (24-9) were still coach that upset Syracuse for its with the Blue Devils in Austin. within four points when first NCAA tournament victory. Duke defeated Mississippi State Wilkinson showed why he's won Michigan State, which finished 63-55 on Sunday. more games than any player in second to top-ranked Illinois in "You know your program has school history. He personally the Big Ten, reached the round come a long way when you lose went on a 7-2 run, capped by a of 16 for the sixth time in eight to Michigan State and you're three-point play to push the years. crushed," said Vermont coach lead back to nine, virtually end­''I'm glad it's over," Michigan Tom Brennan, who had ing Bucknell's bid to become State coach Tom Izzo said. "I announced he would retire after just the third No. 14 to reach thought with the entire state the season. 


' 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 
SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT Get paid to think. WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES 
NEAR CAMPUS Make $75 taking 2-5-7-8 BEDROOM HOUSES. on-line surveys. STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS, 
SECURITY SYSTEMS, 
www.moneyauthor.com WASHER, DRYERS. MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006­
FoR RENT 2007 SCHOOL YEAR ­
2-3-4-5-6-7-8-10 BEDROOMS. Great 6-7 bdrm home available HOUSES GOING QUICK. 6/1/05. VISIT OUR WEBSITE Also very nice 3-bdrm available WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM NOW. OR CONTACT: Both Close to ND,W/D, KRAMER on-site parking. 574-234-2436 OR 
574-315-5032. ND Internet Canopy access. 
2,4 & 5 B-Rooms,close to campus, Call Joe Crimmins call 234-9923, 574-229-3659 ask for Rod. 
NOTICES 

Clean homes close to ND. 2-8 bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask about FREE student rent pro­gram. Blue & Gold Homes (574)250-7653. 
Two story house completely remod­elect 2003. Ready for 2005-06 school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student hous­ing, Laundromat next door (drycleaning also),basement avail­able for storage of bicycles, lug­gage, trunks, etc., new furnace and central air, new kitchen including new stove and refrigerator, large living room for TV or enter­taining, free trash removal. 
Call 289-4071 . 
CORBY ST. HOUSE 4 RENT MAY-JULY. CALL 284-5223. 

2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAM­PUS. 708 S.B. AVE-605 ST. PETER CALL 532-1408 MMM­RENTALS.COM 
6 BEDROOM 3.5 BAIH. 
1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. 
1950 PER MONTH + DEP. STAFF AND FACULTY ONLY. 
CALL BRUCE 
876-3537. 

2-3 bdrrn houses avail. now and 05­
06. Clolle to ND. Call 276-2333. Omni Properties 

KNOLLWOOD HOME FOR RENT, 4BD,2.5 BATH,$1650. 858-722-4469. 
Walk or bus to campus.  
4 br/2b newly remodeled. Laundry,garage 57 4-876-8571  FoR SALE  
Close to ND Excellent area.  OAKHILL CONDO FGR SALE.  
19237 Cleveland,6-7bdrm;  4 rm, 2 bath.  
202 E. Cripe 4bdrm;  For details  
222 E. Willow 3bdrm. 2773097  fimbel.1 @nd.edu or  
574-261-0900.  
Room for rent.  
Very nice apt.complex  96 BMW 328i,  
10 min. fromcampus.$350/mo.  white w/gray leather, automatic, sun  
(517)974-6225..  roof, heated seats, 136k, great car!  
Under blue book at $6300.  
607-6680.  
WANTED  
Catholic family offering full time  PERSONAL  
summer childcare opportunity; 4  
children ages 6 to 12; Scottsdale  TypistfTranscriptionist for Faculty &  
Mall area; 7:30 am to 4:30  Students.  
pm;wages negotiable; non smoker;  Professional results. Call Lori  
own transportation needed.  (574)291-9945.  
Call Maureen  
360-1738.  Lokedawg, you're the best dancer  



OUND THE NATION 
Monday, March 21, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE 0HSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 

NBA 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic 
l.P!Ull record pt~rc. last 10 GB Boston 38-29 .567 9-1 Philadelphia 32-34 .485 5-5 5.5 New Jersey 31-36 .463 6-4 7.0 Toronto 28-38 .424 4-6 9.5 New York 27-37 .422 6-4 9.5 
Eastern Conference, Central tPam rncorct perc. last 10 GB Detroit 42-23 .646 6-4 
Cleveland 34-30 .531 3-7 7.5 Chicago 33-31 .516 4-6 8.5 Indiana 33-32 .508 5-5 9.0 . Milwaukee 27-37 .422 4·6 14.5 
Eastern Conference, Southeast 
tPam rPCOI'd pnrc. last to (;B Miami 52-16 .765 10·0 Washington 36-28 .563 5·5 14.0 Orlando 32-34 .485 3·7 19.0 Charlolle 12-52 .188 0-10 38.0 Atlanta 11-54 .169 1·9 39.5 
Western Conference, Northwest 
tnam record pore. htst 10 (;B Seattle 44-20 .688 6·4 Denver 34-30 .531 9·1 10.0 Minnesota 33-34 .493 5-5 12.5 Portland 23"-41 .359 1·9 21.0 Utah 20-46 .303 1-9 25.0 
Western Conference, Pacific t.oam rll(~ord pnre. last. l 0 GB Phoenix 49-16 .754 7-3 
Sacramento 41-26 .612 5-5 9.0 L.A. lakers 32-33 .492 4-6 17.0 L.A. Clippers 29-37 .439 4-6 20.5 Golden State 22-44 .333 6-4 27.5 
Western Conference, Southwest 
ll~am reeord perc. last 10 GB San Antonio 50·16 .758 7-3 Dallas 43-22 .662 5-5 6.5 Houston 39-26 .600 7-3 10.5 Memphis 38-28 .576 7-3 12.0 New Orleans 15·50 .231 4-6 34.5 
College Softball Big East Conference 
conf. overall 
Providence 0-0·0 14-4·0 

VIllanova 0·0·0 19-9·0 
NOTRE DAME 0·0·0 11·8·0 
Seton Hall 0·0·0 7·6·0 
Plltsburgh 0·0·0 11-13·0 
Boston College 0·0·0 9·12·0 
St. John's 0·0·0 10·15·0 
Connecticut 0·0·0 5·9·0 
Rutgers 0·0·0 0-13·0 
College Baseball Big East Conference 
team  con f.  owrull  
Connecticut  0-0·0  4-1-0  
Georgetown  0·0·0  4-1-1  
Villanova  0·0·0  4·3·0  
Boston College  0-0·0  2·2·0  
Pittsburgh  0-0·0  3-4~0  
NOTRE DAME  0-0-0  3-4-0  
Rutgers  0·0·0  1-2·0  
St. John's  0-0-0  2·5·0  
West Virginia  0-0-0  1·5-0  
Seton Hall  0-0-0  0·4·0  

around the dial 
NBA 

Hawks at Bulls, 8:30p.m, Comcast 
NCAA WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT NOTRE DAME vs. Arizona St. 9 p.m, ESPN2 
NCAA TOURNAMENT 

_ AP 
Julius Hodge celebrates North Carolina State's second-round upset of defending national champion Connecticut. Wake Forest, another No. 2 seed, was also eliminated over the weekend. 
Favorites fall: No.2 seeds ousted from NCAA's 
Wolfpack victorious over shocked Huskies 
Associated Press 

WOHCESTEH, Mass. ­.Julius Hodge looked up and saw Hudy Gay smiling with the game on the line. There was no way Hodge would let the Connecticut fresh­man stand there smirking as the final seconds tieked away. 
So the flashy North Carolina State senior made his move. He darted past Gay leaving him sprawled on the floor ­and scored on a slashing drive with 4.3 seconds left to break a 62-all tie and 
IN BRIEF 

Mets acquire Ishii from 
Dodgers 

VI\IW BEACII, Fla. -Tho New York Mots plugged a hole in Lhoir starting rotation Sunday, acquiring loft-bander Kazuhisa Ishii from the Los Angeles Dodgers for eatc.hor Jason Phillips. 
Thn Mnts tradod for Ishii to fill tho void created when they lost Stove Trachsol to a back injury this spring. Trachsel. who made 33 starts for Nnw York last season, had surgery Saturday Lo rnpair a horniatcd disc and will miss at. least. three to six months. 
Ishii will stnp into tho No. 5 spot in Lhn rotation bnhind Podro Martinnz, Tom Glavine, Kris Bnnson and Victor Zambrano. 
Ishii went B-X with a 4.71 EHA in 31 starts last season !'or Los Angolns. Orton nrratic, hn walknd 98 batters in 172 innings. lie is :~6-25 with a 4.30 EHA in three seasons with the Dodgnrs since coming over from Japan. 
send the Wolfpack past the 
W Virginia, Gansey
defending national champi­ons 65-62 Sunday in the 
stun Wake Forest 
second round of the NCAA tlwm in tlw two ovnrtinws -and tlw Mountainocrs sent No. 2 sond Wak1~ Forest to another stun­ning second-round loss, 111-105 on Saturday night. 
West Virginia (23-1 0) will play Texas Tech rwxt in tho A I hu q u c r q u~~ Hngional, its deepest tournament. run since it also made Lhn round of 1f> i n 1IJ IJ X . T lw Mountainnors havn Iwat­nn sevon Top 25 teams this season, a school roeord. 
Tlw crowd at. Cleveland State reveled as Wake Forost (27 -h) bncanw tlw first ACC toarn knockPd out of tlw tournanwnt. 
tournament. 

"lie started clapping his hands and smiling," said Hodge, who finished with 17 points and six assists. "I just foiL liko there was no way I was going to be denied." 
!lodge was fouled on the play by Ed Nelson and com­pleted the three-point play. The Wolfpack survived after Marcus Williams missed a desperation 3-pointor from the Lop of the key at the buzzer. 
North Carolina State (21­
13) advances to the regional semifinals for the first time since 1989. 
Associated Press 

CLEVELAND -Forrnor local prep star Mike Gansey spont his summer shooting baskets on Cleveland State's cozy court, pieturing himsolf making a big shot in an NCAA tournament gamo. 
Hemarkably. he got the chance on the very sarnn court, and made the shot. Then another, and anoth· er. 
Shooting at thoso fam il­iar baskets, the junior guard scored a careor­high 29 points -19 of 
Alonso wins Malaysian
Grand Prix 
SEPANG, Malaysia -Fnrnando Alonso is making the most of Michanl Schumacher's slrugglo with his old Ferrari. 
Alonso won Lhn Malaysian Gram! Prix on Sunday in 1 hour, 31 minute, :B.736 seconds to give Henault its second straight victory. lin was 24.:~ seconds ahead or .Jarno Trulli, who powered Toyota to its first. top-threo finish in Formula One. Nick I loidl'eld of Williams-BMW was third. 
Schurnadwr, who completed a fifth straight drivers' championship last yoar by winning 13 of 18 racns, was seventh. Still. that's two points in the standings and an improvement from tho season opener in Australia, whnn~ Schumacher stoppnd af'ter colliding with I leidfeld. 
Alonso said Henault n~eds to capi­talize while Fnrrari is running a modi­lied version of its 2004 cars. Ferrari's F2005 is still being tested and might be introduced for the next ovnnt in 
Bahrain on April 3 bnforn tlw I1)­
raco sorins lwads to liuropn. 
"In Llwse days that. FtHTari is not. so 
strong, wn nnnd Lo bn in thn first. 
position and Lakn l.lw points." Alonso 
said. 
Perry wins at Bay Hill 
OHI.ANDO, Fla. -Vijay Singh 
rnturnod to No. I in tlw world Sunday 
and couldn't c<u·n loss. 
Knnny Pnrry lost a. thrnn-shot load in 
thrnn holns, but. onwrgml tho winrwr 
in tho Bay llilllnvitational wlwn Singh 
hit his approach oil' tho rocks and into 
tlw walnr on tlu~ I Xth holn to makn 
doubln bogey, tlw stwond straight 
wonk lw has blown a t·.hance to win. 
Wit.h Singh in thn watm, l'nrry wnnt. l'or the ctmtnr ol' tlw grnnn and laggnd his putt within 2 ft\Ol. lin dos!'ct with a . 2-undtw 70 and at ago 44 bt>t~anw tlw oldest winrwr of' Arnold Palnwr's tour­
nament. 
Last. wonk, Singh misst>d a 2 1/2-f'oot. 
par putt on tho s1wond nxtra holn in 
tho llonda Classic. to loso to l'adraig 
I larrin).,rton. 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, March 21, 2005 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

Karwick leads Irish to 22-6 pounding of Butler 
Midfielder comes up one point short of tying school record 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
Even for Notre Dame's most loyal fans, the sound of the fight song became a bit repet­itive Saturday afternoon. 
With the music blaring after each Notre Dame goal, the Irish crushed Butler 22-6 to improve to 3-1 on the season. 
It was Notre Dame's first league game of the season, and a good start for the Irish, who were coming off a close win over North Carolina. 
Matt Karwick had eight points for Notre Dame, five goals and three assists, high­lighting the team's offensive dominance. 
The school record for most points in a game is nine. 
Pat Walsh had six points, three goals and three assists, and now has eight goals on the season. 
Jim Morrison also scored three goals for the Irish for the fourth consecutive time this season. 
Irish coach Kevin Corrigan was happy with his team's performance, even though the level of competition was clearly not the same as Notre Dame's previous opponents this season -Penn State, Cornell and North Carolina. 

"[Butler] had an overtime game on Wednesday night and I think they must have left a little bit on .t-he field there, because we were able to get on them," Corrigan said. "We thought coming into the game that it was going to be impor­tant to get a lead on them. They wanted to play a little bit slower and a little bit more deliberately, and they can't control that tempo if they are down." 
That's exactly what Notre Dame did, getting out to a 12­0 lead before Butler scored their first goal. 
"I thought that certainly the key to the game is getting that quick early lead and then forcing them to play our tempo which we were a lot more comfortable with than they are," Corrigan said. 
Notre Dame was able to control much of the clock, keeping the ball on offense and in the Butler zone. 
"Our face off guys did a great job, our ground ball play was very sharp, and those are the possessions that are up for grab," Corrigan said. "We got the vast majori­ty of those early ... it was hard for them to get settled in, 
"I think it went from 1-0 to 4-0 before they got another possession." 
In fact, Butler did not score until 5:09 remained in the second period, when Kyle Tietjen put home his third goal of the season. 
Notre Dame's scoring came quickly and often, allowing Corrigan to play some of his other players in larger amounts later in the game. 

"Its certainly one game that were thrilled with and espe­cially happy that a bunch 'of guys who have been working extremely hard in practice and doing a great job got to play a lot of minutes today 
and did very well with it," 

Corrigan said.  
Notre Dame will take  on  
Hofstra  this  weekend  in  
Hempstead, N.Y.  

The game is scheduled for 
1:30 p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriff3@nd.edu 


Irish attack Matt Malakoff, right, passes the ball upfield against Butler in Saturday's contest. Notre Dame crushed the Bulldogs 22-6. 



THE 

BSE~ 
is accepting applications for 
student comic artists 
for the 2005-06 publishing year. 
Please submit five samples of your work with a name and campus phone number to Claire Heininger in The Observer office in the basement of South Dining Hall by Friday, March 25. 
Questions? Contact Claire at 1-4542. 
....-----------------·----­
Monday, March 21, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
BASEBALL 
Irish drop two games in Aces Diamond Invite 

The Irish turn a double play against Chicago State last season. Notre Dame opens its home schedule Tuesday against Cincinnati. 

Saturday I :{-7. 
Notrn Dame ( 7 -1)) hoped to build on bac~k-to-back wins after lwating Northern Illinois in Thursday's ganw. 
With six playPrs batting ovPr .300. Notre Danw's o!TensivP produrtion has lwen solid this season. 
But. the sanw old prohlt~ms canw hack to bite t.lw Irish ­pitching and defpnsP. 
In three ganws !'rom Thursday through Saturday, tlw Notre~ DamP dnfense com­mitted night er-rors and gavP up 29 runs. 
Tlw Irish ran into a hot Hvansvilln squad (I 'J-51 Friday and a desperate South Dakota State hunch (:{-13) Saturday. 
WhiiP Evansville has had a strong start to tlw season, South Dakota State has st.rug­
giPd  early  duP  to  a  tPsty  
seheduln.  
Against  tlw  l•:vansvilln  

Purple Aces, junior Tom Thornton sulTnrPd his third loss for tlw Irish. 
Early on, Notre Danw led :~­0 a l'l e r ho Ill!' r u n s by M a t t 1\dwards and CrPg LopPz. Jo:dwards leads the Irish with l'ivc~ honw runs and 21 BBis. and owns a .:H1CJ hatting awr­age. 
The Aces broke the gamP open in thn middln innings with !'our runs in thn sixth inning and l'ive in the seventh. 
Frc~shrnan dnsignatPd hitt.c~r Tony Langford, seeing morP time al'ter strong perl'ormanc­ns last wnek. was 2-4 in thP loss. 
Langford is batting .500 i11 1f1 at.-hats on the year. 
Saturday tlw Irish lrailPd l h n South D a k o t. a Stat.c• .Jackrabbits 7-2 heading into tlw bottom hall' or tlw l'ourlh inning. 
Thnn t.hn ol'l'nnsn madn its mc)vn, as Nolrn l>anw plated four runs. 
Snnior Scott Bickl'ord c~ntnrnd tlw ganw for the Irish and shutdowi1 lhn .Jackrabbits in llw lop of tlw l'ifth. 
llis ol'l'nnsn hacknd him up with a run in thn bottom of thn inning. 
With t h n game ti ~~ d 7-7. Birkl'ord took lhn mound again in tlw sixth hut yinldPd tlw two ganw-winning runs to South Dakota Staln. 
lin suf'f'Pred his l'irsl loss of' thn snason. Tho .Jackrabbits added four latn runs to cush­ion lhn Inad. 
Tlw Irish will try to get hack 0 II tlll' W i 1111 iII g t I' a!' k W hP II tlwy l'acn Cincinnati Tunsday -playing at Frank l·:rk Stadium l'or tlw l'irst. t.inw this snason. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.cdu 
Recycle The Observer. 

Eight errors and 23 runs allowed doom team in Evansville 
By TOM DORWART 
Sports Wri tcr 

The dilTerenees between tlw Irish and their weeknnd oppo­rwnts arP glaring. 
Notrn Dame has an NCAA Division I record I h straight. 40-win seasons. South Dakota State has won three games in its first year in Division !Notre Dame has appeared in the NCAA tournamnnt 1!J times­six conseeutive. Evansville has appeared in thn NCAA tournament twien. 
But none of thosn statistics mattnrnd ovnr the wneknnd in tho Aces' Diamond Classic where the Irish fell to host Evansville on Friday I0-3 and to South Dakota Statn on 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, March 21, 2005 
FENCING 
Irish women find place among all-time greats 
perennial rival Ohio State 173­By ERIC RETTER 171 in the standings to take the 
Sports Writer 
program's seventh gold medal. 
"We won in the last round The whispers have already when pressure was highest," begun. head coach Janusz Bednarski 
Some people close to NCAA said. ''I'm really proud of them." fencing have already begun For the three graduating sen­making claims that the fencers iors, the team title capped off an Notre Dame sent to the NCAA amazing four years that includ­finals are the best group of six ed two team national champi­
women's fencers  onships,  the  
on  one  college  last coming in  
team in history. Seeing that women's sabre  "/ thin~ we work really well together, and  2003. ''I'm going to be sad leaving,  
was not added as an additional event into the  we,re all very strong fencers.,,  but it's a great way to-end. I couldn't ask for  
NCAA until 2000,  more," Walton  
these claims may have some merit.  Mariel Zagunis Irish sabre  said. ''I'm very happy with  

Certainly, the numbers speak for themselves. Among the group of senior foilists Alicja Kryczalo and Andrea Ament, epeeists senior Kerry Walton and sophomore Amy Orlando and sabre sopho­more Valerie Providenza and freshman Marie) Zagunis, there are a combined five individual national championships, six NCAA individual second place finishes, 15 All-American awards and an Olympic gold medal -won by Zagunis in Athens this past summer -and all of them have reached the NCAA finals at least once. 
The group's greatest accom­plishment may have come Saturday and Sunday in this year's national championships, when they turned a 24-point deficit into a two point victory, including erasing a four-point shortfall heading into the final round, allowing the Irish to edge 
By THOMAS BARR Sports Writer 
The hits keep on coming for the Irish. 
Even poor weather could not cool down the Notre Dame softball team's red-hot bats. The Irish outhit opponents 28 to 12 in three games. 
The Irish are coming off a spring break trip in which they went 6-1 and captured the Hawaii Invitational Tournament. Notre Dame went 2-1 in this weekend's Buckeye Invitational Tournament in Columbus, Ohio, after having their first game cancelled against host­ing Ohio State. 
"The weather has no effect, we are used to bad weather, it should never be a problem," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. 
The Irish beat the Eastern Michigan Eagles 4-1 in their third game late Sunday after­noon. The team was carried in part by the efforts of pitcher Heather Booth, who allowed only two hits in seven innings, and senior Liz Hartmann, who went 3-4 with 3 RBI in the tournament's final game. Hartmann would amass a . 700 batting average for the tour-
everybody. Alicja and Andrea did 

excellent today." 
The tandem of Kryczalo and Ament may have been the most potent 1-2 punch of any two competitors in the same weapon. 
Kryczalo, herself "We won in the pionship on their a three-time way out." 
last round when 
champion, nar­With Providenza, rowly missed being the pressure was Zagunis, and able to join an elite highest." Orlando coming club of NCAA ath­back next year, the letes that have Irish return three
Janusz Bednarski 
won the same fencers who have 
Irish head coach
event four times in been named All­
a row, and Ament was twice a run­ner-up to her teammate in the finals. 
"In some things I'm better and in some things she's better, as a captain, so we kind of share it," Kryczalo said of her teammate. "We just cooperate very well together." 
Sunday, Zagunis and Orlando joined Kryczalo in the finals, marking only the second time that 3 women from the same team have made the champi­onship bout in all three disci­plines in the same year, the only other time being when the Irish did it in 2004. 
Over the course of the year, the six had formed an identity as a unit. 
"I think we work really well together, and we're all very strong fencers" Zagunis said. 
In part because of this, the largest aim for any of them seemed to be winning the team goal. 
"My job was to win bouts, and I won as many bouts as I could [for the team]," Zagunis said. 
Those staying on after this year feel somewhat bittersweet, as they will be saying goodbye to three of their close teammates. 
"It's actually kind of sad, we're losing a lot of really great sen­iors," Providenza said. ''I'm happy we could give them a cham­

American at least 

once, all of whom reaching the finals at least once, and Providenza having an NCAA title. 
For Notre Dame, that's a rebuilding_year. 
Contact Eric Retter at 
e~:etter@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish win two gan1es in Buckeye Invitational 
FLy FOR FREE NEXT WEEK! 
If you've ever dreamed of being behind the controls If you're interested, we'll guarantee you a of an airplane, this is your chance to find out what free flight school, offer tuition assistance it's really like. and someday put you in a Harrier, ~ 
AMarine Corps pilot is coming to Notre Dame on Cobra or F/A-18 Hornet. 
(;p"*

Wednesday, March 30, to take you on trial flights. 
Get in the air. ~ ,~,~ We're looking for afew college students who have Get some information. ~~ ·~ the smarts, skills and interest to be a Marine pilot. The flight is on us. \1\. 
·~ 

nament, driving in seven RBI and scoring two runs. 
Earlier in the day, the Irish beat the Oakland Grizzlies 8-0 in only five innings due to the mercy rule. Pitcher Steffany Steinglem earned the win and added to her impressive tour­nament totals of 19 strikeouts while allowing only three earned runs in 10 innings. 
Hartmann had another big outing with 3 RBI and a run. 
"Liz Hartmann was absolutely on fire, she was unbeatable and nothing could get by her," Gumpf said. 
In Notre Dame's first game, they were tied 4-4 with Marshall going into the final inning when an error and a three-run two-out homerun lead to the end of the Irish's five-game winning streak. 
The Herd improved to 12-8 after winning their first-ever meeting with Notre Dame. 
"We got better as we played, we hit very well but we made a lot of mistakes ... some that cost us dearly," Gumpf said. 
The Irish are now 13-8 and return home for their first home game of the season Wednesday against Western Michigan. 
Contact Thomas Barr at tbarr@nd.edu 

(ONTACl Ymm MARINE (ORI'S OrnCER SELECI ION TEAM 
RESERVE YOUR SEAT TODAY! 
1st Lt. Barclay or Gunnery Sgt. Templeton 
765-479-1275 

OSOLAF@9MCD.USMC.Mil 
MARINE OFFICER PROGRAMS MarineOfficer.com 


Monday, March 21, 2005 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

GUEST ARTISTS 
Natalie MacMaster 

Friday, April 8 at 8 pm Tickets $35, $28 faculty/staff, $26 seniors, $15 all students 
Alton 

Friday, April 15 at 8 pm Tickets $35, $28 faculty/staff, $26 seniors, $15 all students 
Emerson String Quartet 
Saturday, April 16 at 8 pm Tickets $35, $28 faculty/staff, $26 seniors, $15 all students 
D A N C E 
The Sleeping Beauty 

Presented by Southold Dance Theater 
Decio Mainstage Theatre Tickets: $25, $19 seniors, $12 all students Friday, April 29 at 7:30pm Saturday, April 30 at 2 and 7:30pm 
F I L M 
BROWNING CINEMA 
Tickets $6, $5 faculty/staff, $4 seniors, $3 all students 
Tickets go on sale each Monday before the screenings. For more information about these films, please visit http://performingarts.nd.edu. 
The Passion of the Christ {2003) 
Thursday, March 24 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
Ben Hur {1959) 
Friday, March 25 at 7 pm 
M U S c 
The Notre Dame Chamber Players 
Thursday, March 31 at 8 pm Leighton Concert Hall Tickets: $10, $8 faculty/staff, $6 seniors, $3 all students 
NDPRESENTS 
LIVE AT THE MORRIS 
Opera Verdi Europa performs La Traviata 
Morris Performing Arts Center, downtown South Bend Monday, April4 at 8 pm Prices range from $45 to $20 For this show, tickets must be purchased from the Morris: Caii(574J235-9190, 
(800) 537-6415, or order online at www.MorrisCenter.org 
ND Collegium Musicum 
Friday, April 1 at 8 pm Leighton Concert Hall Free and open to the public; Tickets required 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Maday, March 21 2005 
ND WOMEN'S TRACK 
Erigha leads Irish at Williains Invitational 

By RYAN KEIFER Sports Writer 
The Irish enjoyed warm weather and fast times at the Willie Williams Invitational, their first outdoor track meet in Tucson, Ariz. this weekend. 
Notre Dame sent a limited number of athletes to Arizona, mostly sprinters and hurdlers, but was able to score five top­three Ilnishes and qualify one athlete for the NCAA regional meet. 
Maryann Erigha was the star of the meet for Notre Dame as she notched the lone victory for the Irish in the 200 meters and also finished fourth in the 100 meters. Her time in the 200 earned her a place in the NCAA regional meet, while her time in the 100 left her just one tenth of a second short of the qualify­ing mark. 
Sophomore Okechi Ogbuokiri also ran well, finishing second in the 400 meters and eighth in the 200. Freshman Dominique Manning showed promise in her outdoor debut, finishing fourth in the 100-meter hurdles and running on the fourth place 4-by-100 team, which also fea­tured Erigha, Brienne Davis and Crysta Swayzer. 
Petra Dankova and Cassie Gullickson highlighted the field events for the Irish. Dankova finished third in the triple jump and long jump competitions, and Gullickson finished second in the high jump. 
Notre Dame's goals entering this meet were to get some of its younger athletes experience, affording them as many oppor­tunities as possible to qualify for the NCAA regionals. The Irish showed promise in this area, as the athletes showed their ability to adapt to the warm, dry conditions in the desert. 
The outdoor portion of the schedule also brings a different NCAA qualification process. Indoors, athletes must hit an automatic qualification mark to be guaranteed a spot in the NCAA field. After that, the NCAA selects a number of ath­letes from each event among a pool who have earned a lesser, provisional standard. 
This number varies from year to year and can leave athletes in limbo as to whether they have qualified for the champi­onships. 
Outdoors, athletes strive for one mark, which earns them a place in the NCAA regional where two athletes from each event advance to the champi­onships. 
Coach Tim Connelly feels the outdoor process favors his ath­letes. 
"It's so much clearer out­doors. The athletes know exact­ly what they have to do. We just have to get them to a point where they can achieve these times," Connelly said last week. 
The Irish will continue their quest for qualification times next weekend with two meets, one at Baylor University and one at Stanford University. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkieferl@nd.edu 
T'urtle Creek-The Place to be at ND! 




Welcome to Paradise! 
• 
Pre-leasing for the 2005-2006 school year 

• 
Studios and 1 and 2 bedroom apartments (574)272-8124 


ask Sherry for details www.aimco.com 
MEN'S TRACK 

Team begins outdoor season 
By NATHAN DYER Sports Writer 

The Irish kicked off their outdoor season over the week­end, sending a contingent of athletes to Tucson, Ariz., at the Willie Williams Invitational at the University of Arizona. 
The Irish sent 26 men's and women's competitors t.o the event, which was held at Roy 
P. Drachman Track and Field Stadium. 
While it was the women who stole the show -namely sophomore sprinter Maryann Erigha, who ran a personal­best and NCAA Hegional quali­fying time of 23.70 seconds on her way to victory in the 200­meter dash -the men's team also left its mark in the desert. 
Competing in mostly field events in this non-scoring meet, as opposed to the women who sent more run­ners, the men's team was led by junior Chris Staron, who claimed fifth place overall with a clearance of 1.95 meters 
Teammate Chris Jacques came in at ninth, with a leap of 1. 90 meters 
Staron, who finished in third in the Big East Indoor Championships, said this meet was a good warm-up to begin the outdoor season. 
"[It was a nice way to] work the kinks out and hopefully set myself up for some better fin­ishes later in the season," Staron said. 
Not satisfied with his finish in the indoor season, Staron was hopeful that the out-and hopes to garner such accolades during the outdoor season. 
Senior thrower Chip Roberts came in seventh in the ham­mer throw with a throw of 
48.13 meters, and teammate Caret Koxlein finished right behind Hoberts in eighth place with a throw of 46.41 meters. 
Both Hoberts and Koxlein competed in this year's indoor Big East Championship, where 
Roberts who claimed third 

door part of the season would give him the  "[It was a nice way to] work the kinks out and hopefully set myselfup  in the weight throw. Junior Derek Goguen round­ 
opportunity to  for some better finishes  ed out the fin­ 
improve. "[This meet  late in the season."  ishes for the Irish, coming  
was  a  good  in  seventh  
way]  to  get  Chris Staron  place  in  the  
some more work in, and,  Irish high jumper  javelin with a throw of 59.91  
hopefully, get  meters.  

some better jumps in later in The outdoor season will con­the season," he said. tinue for the Irish next week­
Also competing in the long end when the team travels to jump, sophomore Jacques was the Stanford Invitational at able to finish in sixth place Stanford University in Palo with a best jump of 6.66 Alto, Calif. meters. Jacques was the indoor season's Big East Contact Nathan Dyer at champion in the long jump, ndyer@nd.edu 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
Newly remodeled 4and 5-Bedroom 
Townhomes for 2005-06  
Only $210 Per Student!  :~ I J I  
Student"  

4& 5Private bedrooms-SPLIT the rent! 3floors ofliving space +patio area Central air I cable hook-up Stove, fridge, dishwasher 
Vtsit our website at WJ4w.REMCJ.com 

Washer I Dryer in EACH unit Close to campus ADT monitoring systems 
24-hour emergency maintenance 
Call for a showing today! 574-234-9923 
There are also afew 2-bedroom apartments available at Notre Dame Apartments for just $500-$600/month. 


Monday, March 21, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
Bouts 
continued from page 28 
two minutes. 

In tho third round, Gallegos ovnrpowernd Sarpong <L'i Sarpong lin~d out. (;allegos won by unani­mous dedsion. 
Goldrick def. Valenzuela 
Well into thn second round, sophomore Thomas (;oldrick knocked down senior .Jon Valnnzw~la. Valenzuela headed bar.k to his blue eorner to gnt his bloody nose patched up. 
But the knockdown didn't faze him. Valenzuela eame baek furi­ously with sharp, quick jabs. 
In a fairly nven third round, both boxers filllght through their bloody f'a1~es. One of the hardest fought bouts, the title light drew a standing ovation from much of the crowd. Goldrick won by unan­imous dedsion. 
McCann def. Hennig 
In another baek-and-lilrth bout, junior Mike McCann pulled out the victory over sophomore Miehanl I Iennig. McCann used a strong third round -in which he delivnred six pun1~hes in-a-row to the head -to win the titln by split deeL'iion. Lohmeyer def. Huml 
Each had large cheering sec­tions chanting their names, but senior Nate J.ohmyer won tho title over senior Tim lluml. In the tight match, the crowd was espodally loud. Lohmyer used his rnaeh to overeome lluml's strong hooks. Loughrey def. Panzica 
Aftnr four years of hard work and training, senior Galen Loughrey finally achieved his dream -a Bnngal Bout<; title. He d11f'eated fellow senior Mike Panzica by unanimous decision for his first Bnngal Bout'i title. 
With no knockdowns, Loughrey used a stnady attack to overcome a hard-fighting Panzka. In recog­nition of Panzica's valiant effort, l.oughrny hoisted Panzica into the air after the winner was 
Personalized 
Notre Dame 
Graduation Announcements 
Your Name 
Your Degree 

Pltone, mail orfax orders: Jostens Attn: P(iS Order Processing 148 E. Broadway Owatmma, MN 55060 1-800-854-7464 Fax 1-800-6S5-5725 www.Jo.<itens.com 

DUSTIN MENNELLNThe Observer Mark Basola, left, evades the punch of Bobby Gorynskl In the flnal bout of the 160-pound division Saturday. 
announced and the two high-fived once more. 
Basola def. Gorynskl 
Junior Mark Basola defeated senior Bobby Gorynski in a split dneision. Back-and-forth the whole way, neither boxer over­powered the other, but Basola had just enough energy left in the third round to pull out the victory. 
DeSpllnter def. Nicholson 
The crowd booed, cheered, hemmed and hawed. The boxers uppercut, jabbed, blocked, dueked, sweated and bled. In a heated fight, senior Mark DeSplinter defeated law student Brian Nicholson for his third title in three tries. 
DeSplinter seemed to become the crowd favorite after Nicholson threw him to the canvas in the first round. The rest of the way, the bout was fought fairly evenly. DeSplinter won by unanimous decision. 
Ward wins by forfeit 
Sophomore Dan Ward won by forfeit. Top-ranked senior Justin Alanis broke his hand in his semi­final victory over Brad Wanchulak and was unable to compete in the title bout. 
Chrlstoforettl def. Bartels 
Senior Jim Christoforetti knocked down MBA student Doug Bartels early in the second round. Later in the round, Bartels got a knockdown of his own, sending Christoforetti to the canvas. Christoforetti won the split deci­sion. 
Zlzlc def. Griffin 
Throughout the first round, the bout was a stalemate. But MSA student Billy Zizic then began a stronger attack on junior Johnny Griffin. Both boxers gushed sweat and fought relentlessly. Griffin backed Zizic into the gold corner early in the third round. Punch after punch Zizic stumbled. Griffin then dealt a blow that knocked Zizic into the ropes. Zizic came back powerfully and held on to squeak out a split decision victory. 
Hasbrook def. Schroeder 
Imposing 6-2 senior Matt Hasbrook stepped into the ring against junior Nathan Schroeder. When the bell rang, Hasbrook was the aggressor. lie never let up. Schroeder tried to keep up and kept the match even for awhile, but I Iasbrook used shifted his weight into his every hit and gained the unanimous decision title. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 

University of Notre Dame 
Place orders in person on: Tuesday and Wednesday, March 22 and 23 LaFortune Student Center Sorin Room 9:00 a.m. -4:30 p.m. 
Staff 

continued from page 28 
Saracino said he was impressed with the coaehes' desire to learn the recruit­ing process from the alter­native perspective of an admissions director. 
Weis said he and his assis­tants understand the guide­lines Saracino has laid before them. 
"I think lthel admissions [department! is on tho same page with athletics here and vice versa," Weis said. "I think that not every athlete that comes to Notre Dame has to have a 1350 on their SATs, but it's niee if some of' them do. I think from the president right through the admissions office, there's some give and take there, but I think it's important that you try to get those guys, realizing that not everyone has that." 
Weis also understands how emphasis on academics at Notre Dame can affect the recruiting process. 
Academic Influence 

"What's happened," Weis said, "is that the student body's SAT average contin­ues to get higher and high­er." 
In an article published on April 14, 2004, The Observer reported the aver­age SAT score of football players at Notre Dame had risen in almost direct pro­portion to rising standard­ized test scores of the aver­age student from 1993 to 2004-6.3 to 6.7 percent, respectively, according to data compiled from a Social Science Quarterly artiele. 
At the time of the reported findings, Saracino disagreed standards for football play­ers had toughened in terms of overall curriculum, grades and other factors. 
"We have not been any 'tougher' on the admissions of football players in recent years as we have with the overall applicants," he said in the April 14 article. 
Over the past few years, critics have questioned Notre Dame's recruiting capabilities, but Saracino maintains the roots of these complaints are not in a neg­ative relationship between admissions and coaches. 
"It wasn't bad before," Saracino said of his relation­ship with former Notre Dame head coach Tyrone Willingham. "If we were having some difficulty in recruiting the student-ath­letes that we wanted, it was­n't because they were trying to get young men admitted who could not do the work. It was just that they weren't getting them." 
Saracino said the admis­sions department has remained consistent in its standards fqr student-ath­letes, reiterating its empha­sis on a high school course­load that demonstrates an 
Lutheran Services ECLA Gloria Dei Lutheran Church 225 E. Haney St, South Bend IN Parking: Broadway at Carroll/2 blocks off Michigan St. 
•Maunday Thursday, March 24th 7:00pm 
•Good 
Friday, March 25th Prayer Vigil 7:00am-7:00pm 7pm Adoration of the Cross 

•Easter 
Vigil, Saturday March 26th 8:00pm 

•Easter 
Sunday Services, March 27th 8:30am breakfast, lO:OOam Festival Liturgy 


ability to handle the Notre 
Dame eurriculum. 
Such a eourseload, 
Saracino said, ensures "tho 
transition from high school 
to Notre Dame will bn rnini­·mizod." 
"It's insulting to think 
every single athlot<1 ean't b11 
a solid student," Saracino 
said. "Overall, our concern 
is that they are students that 
can be successful at Notrn 
Dame, and rnally that's no 
dif'f'erent than tho way it's 
bnen for years at Notrn 
Dame." 
Developing relationships 
Irish assistant coaches 
have already brought poten­
tial recruit information over 
for Saracino to evaluatn. 
Saracino said hn has mel 
individually with coaches lw 
called "passionate" and 
"hard-working" who exhibit 
serious intenlst in bocoming 
experts in operating recruit­
ing practices within the 
expectations of the 
University. 
"In talking with them, I 
was really struck by how 
interested they were in tho 
type of student who comes 
to Notre Dame," Saracino 
said. "One of the coaches 
has a son who's applied to 
Notre Dame and hopefully 
will be coming next year ... 
His son could pretty much 
go anywhere and really is 
looking at Notre Dame. I 
take that as a good sign this 
coach specifically under­
stands this is the kind of 
student that comes to Notre 
Dame." 
Once assistant coaches 
like recruiting coordinator 
Hob lanello fully grasp Notre 
Dame, they can fully explain 
it to potential recruits. 
"Notre Dame doesn't have 
to be so much sold as the 
story told," Saracino said. 
"If the student-athletes 
know what's going on here, 
they're going to want to be 
here." 
Weis has made himself 
responsible for maintaining 
a solid relationship between 
Saracino, the admissions 
department and tho coach­
ing staff. In maintaining that 
relationship, the head coach 
-who has spent the majori­
ty of his coaching career in 
the NFL -has learned a 
few intricacies himself about 
what to look for in a recruit 
at Notre Dame. 
"I think that there are 
really three things that I 
think are independent that 
you have to bring together," 
Weis said. "We're all looking 
for good athletes. We're all 
looking for high-character 
kids. And we're all looking 
for kids that can graduate. 
Everyone's looking for that. 
"Obviously, in almost every 
kid there's a deficiency in 
one or two of those areas. 
The question is to what 
extent will you go down to, 
and it's really got to be a 
mesh of all three of those 
ingredients." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, March 21, 2005 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish prepare for deep Arizona State team in 2nd round 
By MATT LOZAR 
Senior SraffWrirer 

FRESNO, Calif. -Shutting down one Sun Devil won't send the Irish to their third straight Sweet 16. 
Arizona State just has too much depth. 
Facing a team with 10 play­ers logging double-digit min­utes and no one scoring more than 11.4 points per game, overcoming Arizona State's deep bench will be the chal­lenge for Notre Dame in tonight's second-round NCAA tournament game at 9 p.m. on ESPN2. 
"They have a very balanced attack," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said at Sunday's press conference. "We can't just shut down a [Kristen] Mann to win this game." 

Tonight's game figures to be a defensive struggle since both teams normally play that type of the style. Unlike the 8 7 points Arizona State scored in its first-round win over Eastern Kentucky Saturday, the Sun Devils aver­age 63 points per game. 
The Irish played their nor­mal style of game in the 61-51 win over UC Santa Barbara. McGraw knows her team needs that type of perform­ance on defense again tonight. 

"They are really physical and play great defense," McGraw said. "I was pleased with our defensive effort and we need it again [tonight]. 
"We're not a team that blows people out." More than just Batteast 
With Jacqueline Batteast struggling from the field and the post players in foul trou­ble, McGraw needed her role players to step · up on Saturday to defeat the pesky Gauchos. 
She got just that. 

"I was pleased with every­body," McGraw said. "We got great contributions from our starters and everyone gave us a lift." 
One interesting lineup McGraw used late in the first half saw three freshmen -Charel Allen, Tulyah Gaines and Melissa D'Amico -on the court with sophomore Breona Gray and Batteast. McGraw hadn't used that combination very often this season, but she was pleased with the results. 
"It was great to get them. some minutes. You're not sure what to expect," McGraw said. "I was pleased to see the freshmen play like that." 
What may have been most satisfying for McGraw was seeing her team excel with Batteast only scoring eight points. 
"I thought that was one of our best games of the year," McGraw said. "It was great to see us win with [Batteastl get­ting eight points and 10 boards and not 20 points." Quick hits 
+ Saturday's win gave the Irish 27 on the season. the third highest total in school history. Notre Dame's 1996-97 team, which advanced to the Final Four and won more games than any team in histo­ry, won 31 games. 

+ 
Batteast started her 96th consecutive game against the Gauchos, which set a school record. Katryna Gaither, who played at Notre Dame from 1994-97, previously held the mark. 

+ 
McGraw earned her 499th career victory Saturday. 

+ 
Since the Irish joined the Big East for the 1995-96 sea­son, the Irish have qualified for 10 straight NCAA tourna­ments. Each year, the Irish 


have advanced to at least the second round. 
+ Current Notre Dame ath­letic director Kevin White held the same position at Arizona State from 1996­2000. Current Arizona State athletic director Gene Smith, who is leaving for the same position at Ohio State in Columbus, is a former football player at Notre Dame and graduated in 1977. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

PosT PERIMETER CoACHING STYLE OF PLAY BENCH INTANGIBLES
PLAYERS PLAYERS 
LLI 
:E 
c:( 
c 
LLI 
a:: 
t­
o 
z 
LLI 
!;;:
1­
U) 
c:( 
z 
0 
N a:: 
<C 

' 


McGraw is now 22­10 in NCAA Tournament games and gunning for career victory No. 500 as a head coach. She knows how to prepare her teams for second round match-ups with six of the past nine reaching the Sweet 16.  The Irish focus on defense, then scoring. They did a great job of that against UCSB by shutting down Mann and then getting their points. Against ASU, Notre Dame must once again play stifling 'D' and find ways to score enough for a victory.  LaVere played very well against UCSB, while Erwin grabbed six boards off the bench. Notre Dame needs those two, plus Borton, to con­trol the paint in terms of both scoring and rebounding. Batteast should have a better shooting game.  Duffy had a game­high 18 against UCSB, picking up the slack for Batteast. She continues to play well on both ends. Allen and Gray · played pivotal roles in the first round as well, contributing on offense and defense.  McGraw praised her bench after the UCSB game, and the Irish need another solid per­formance against ASU. Allen and Erwin are the two most consistent and significant sixth and seventh players ­both had good games in the first round.  The Irish expect noth­ing less than their third straight Sweet 16 appearance. They'll have to get there with little crowd support and the pressure of being the higher-seeded team. Notre Dame does, how­ever, have much more tournament experience.  
Turner Thorne is the all-time winningest coach at ASU. but her career record is just 145-121. She has led the Sun Devils to three NCAA bids and one 20­win season during her nine years at the helm.  The Sun Devils rely on a balanced offensive attack and solid defense for their suc­cess. They average just 63 points a gaine, but give up only 53. Ten players average double figure minutes with no one logging more than 26 a game.  Westerberg and Kovesdy are the only two ASU players to average double figures in scoring. Against Eastern Kentucky, the two combined for 38 poinl'l. Look for ASU to feed these two the ball first, then look for other scoring options.  ASU's key guard is Loney, who averages 9 points and three assists a game. She's also the only real 3-point threat, making 35 percent .for the season. Freshman guard Johnson gives the Sun Devils a spark off the bench.  Turner Thorne uses 10 players for double figures in minutes and all 10 have contributed, with no one tallying more than 26 minutes a game. The Sun Devils are very balanced and should have fresh legs all game, thank'l to fre­quent substitutions.  The Sun Devils are especially confident after trouncing Eastern Kentucky. They have quietly had a very good season. ASU should also have a distinct home court advantage and have nothing to lose against the favored Irish.  
Turner Throne has done a nice job form­ing ASU into a com­petitive program, hut McGraw easily takes the cake here. She has a national title and routinely leads the Irish to the Sweet 16.  Expect a low-scoring affair, with defense as both teams' strengths. The Irish want to get Batteast the ball early and often, hoping she can firid her. rhythm<. The Sun Devils could use a full court press to disrupt Notre Dame.  Slight edge to the Irish here, at least on paper. Notre Dame's post has steadily improved throughout the season and they played tough against UCSR The Irish have a go-to player in Batt~ast, while ASU isn't sure who will be the star each game.  No one really stands out for ASU, while Notre Dame has Duffy, Allen and Gray. The Irish must try and take Loney out of her game to disrupt the Sun Devils offense. If the forwards cancel each other out, Notre.Dame should have the advan­tage.  Notre Dame's bench can be brilliant at times, but it can also be inconsis­ten eanwhiJ!'l f\SU ha'i .... :·'t'·: .. }:::1\i.t':.: .th.....h payJ!O)n. ·C ·playen> all season. Thorne bas>no em•}llaylligiOplay•. ers and the continuous lineup changes could bn trouble for the Irish.  ASU wants respect and they know a win against Notre Dame gives them thl'!t:Jhe Iri'>h are.expE>,(t­edto Win and. haVe more pre$sure on their tollec­tNil shoulders. If ASU plays well early. the team's confidence will grow, which means more problems for Notre Dame.  

Monday, March 21, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
Isayenko bounced back from a 5-nutrJ.,>in of vietory. 
0 shutout to capture the title. The "Finally they woke up, and they 
bout was close from bnJ.,>inning to start to feel that their boul"i are so 
end, but after losing the lead and much important. Adrnnalinn 
going down 5-4. Ghattas never started working and they went for 
regained it and fell 15-12. a victory. They helpnd us a lot," 
"Being up there in front of Bednarski said. everyone, it's so hard to stick to Providenza caught fire on your game plan, because there's Sunday, going 9-0 on thn linal day so many outside factors that come to improve her record to 19-4 and into play," he said. "I knew what finish tho round robin in second to do but couldn't do it because of placo behind Zagunis, who went all these things." 21-2, a feat made ev1m rnon~ 
In the men's foil final, Ohio impressivn by the fa1~t that slw State's Boaz Ellis easily tri­was fighting illness the whole umphed over Gabriel Sinkin of wonkend. New York University to daim his "JSheJ was in the hospital tho second title in as many years. whole night. Sh11 was undnr the 
While missing out on the finals, IV be1~ausn she was sick. but it two other Notrn Dame fnncers, happnned that she rneovnred and Stearns and Jedrkowiak, also now shn is number two in tlw performed well enough to be sabnr," lkdnarski said. named All-Americans. Stearns Four Irish limcers qualilind filr went 14-9 to finish in 1Oth place, a chance to eompote further lin· and Jedrkowiak's J.S-8 record individual accolades, as was good enough for a seventh­Providenza, Zagunis, Kryezalo place finish. and Orlando all linishml in thn top 
Sophomore Aaron Adjemian 4 and moved into Uw smnilinals, rounded out the Irish contingnnt, with the latter 3 winning oasily going 5-18 on the wenknnd. and moving into the linals. While 
Notre Dame went 11-17 in the ProvidPnza fell 15-1:~ to men's division against their m<\ior Columbia's Emily .Jaeobson, rivals, going 4-6 versus Ohio Statn Kryezalo cruised past St. .John's and 5-5 and 2-6 against St. John's Erzsebet Caray 15-X, and Zagunis and Pmm State, respectively. and Orlando naeh won by a score 
As Friday's events unfolded, the of 15-5, dnl'eating Ohio State's championship still seemed to be a Siobhan Byrne and I lolly Buechel viable option. of Penn, respnctively. 
"[Ohio State] qualified six guys This year marked thn second but only five !,>iris, so we felt like if time that a woman's tnam had the guys could keep it clos1~ after had a competitor in the finals of ]Friday] and we weren't too far all three events, as Notre Damn behind, the girls could pick it up repeated the feat it aehieved last and win a lot of bouts for us," year. llowover, the quartet wnnt Stearns said. 0-4 in the modal boul"i, providing 
t\lthough they fenced with one a somewhat sour ending to an man less than Ohio State and St. otherwisn rnd-lettnr day for the John's, the men did keep the squad. .. score relatively close, and when Providenza took a 10-7 lnad in 4 the women began Saturday after­the bronze medal match, but fell noon, the Irish were in fourth 15-11 after Byrne wnnt on an 8-1 
I 
place and trailed leader Ohio run to end the bout. Orlando fell State 94-70. behind to Wayne State's Anna 
"Ohio escaped us, so we have to Garina 5-0 and never rncovered, chase them, but they didn't losing to the now back-to-back escape so far that we will feel as champion 15-6. In the sabre, we arc lost. We have simply to Zagunis fenced a tight mateh with make up 24 bouts on Ohio Olympic teammate Jacobson, [State]," Bednarski said Friday. It coming ba1~k from a 4-1 deficit to will not b11 easy, but we will try." knot it up at 8-8 and 10-1 0, but 
When the women's team began she was never abiA to take the their tournament, they did better lead and lost in her lirst NCAA than try, and the Buckeyes' lead linal by a score of 15-11. quickly began to IIoweve r, tlw 
erode. Four Irish fencers recorded 10 or more wins in  "Adrenaline started working and {the  biggest upset of the day eame as Harvard fresh­ 
Saturday's 14 bout action, as Zagunis and sabre partner sophomore Valerie  epeeists] went for a victory. They helped us a lot."  man Emily Cross was abln to defeat Kryezalo, a three-time  
Providenza went 13­ champion  who  
1 and 10-4, respec­-tively, while the sen­ior foil tandem of  Janusz Bednarski Irish coach  was trying to join an elite group of 29 NCAA ath- 
Kryczalo and Andrea  lntes  who  had  

Ament combined for respoctive been 4-time champions in the records of 12-2 and 11-3, helping same event. to trim Ohio State's lead from 24 The two battled a dose, defen­to 13 by the end of the afternoon. sive mateh at first, as Cross took a 
Coming into the arena Sunday, 3-2 lead into the first break. the team seemed to sense that I lowever, the freshman Sllemed to they were on the verge of doing figure Kryezalo out after the something great. intermission, stunning everyone 
"Today was shorter than yestnr­by taking eight of thn next nirw day. There were less bouts so wo points and going on to take her knew that everyone eountod, first championship by a score of every single bout, every singln 15-5. touch counted," Walton said. "Wn With their respndivn linishes of were all pumpf~d up coming in." sneond and snvnnth placn with 
Notre Damn's momentum con­round robin rneords of 21-2 and tinued into throughout the day, 15-H, Kryezalo and Ament joinod with wins coming when tlwy Za~unis. l'rovidenza and Orlando were needed the most. It was to give Notrn l>arnn l'ive AII­truly a team ellin·t Sunday. as tho Arnnrieans. two epees, Walton and sopho­Whiln thn individual disappoint­more Amy Orlando, who had rrwnl"i in tlw linals endnd tim day struggled Saturday, improvod on sonwwhat of a down l'nnling, drastieally and eontributnd to tho tlw team's overall triumph was Irish run. Orlando, who had boon still causn lilr pridn and bneanw in 11th plaen when Saturday eon­the fhcal point of tlw wnnknnd. eluded, linishnd the round robin "I wish I muld haw fmwnd lwt­in fourth plan' with a I h-7 ovora II tnr in tlw last bout against l~rnily rncord, while Walton ended up .la1·.obson." Zagunis said. "I ntlllP 11-12. to this toumarnnnt saying to my 
With the epons n~gaining thoir sPlf I was just going to do tlw bPsl form late in the tournanwnt, t.lw lill' the team that I r.ould." Irish blitzed through round 7, going I (J-2 eombirwd and turning Contact Eric Retter at a 4 point delicit into a 2-point eretter@nd.cdu 
Cha01ps 
continued from page 28 
everybody. It mme down to the win~. and that's the most exciting way to win," senior epee captain Kerry Walton said. 
The Irish qualilind 11 out of a possible 12 fencers for the tour­nament, with only freshman .Jakuh .lndrkowiak reprnsnnting Notre Damn in men's foil, but dnspitn this, the tmun entnred the weekend morn than optimistic with n~gards to their chances to win thnir first team title since 2003. 
"As a ll~am, we had really, real­ly high expectations. Every year wn cornn in nxpncting to win, and especially this year because Ohio Statn only qualiliml 1 I. that was huge for us," said sophomorn sabrn Matt Stnarns. 
Stearns joinnd his four other teammates in competition Thursday and Friday, as the men took to thn strips l'irst in the rharnpionships. Senior epenist Michal Sobieraj led the team, going 1X-5 in the round robin bdiJrn bmtting Ohio State's Denis Tolkadwv and Wayne State's Marek Pntrasznk in the smnifinals and linals to daim his lirst indi­vidual NCAA title. 
In his snmilinal bout with long­limn rival Tolkachev, Sobieraj avnngnd his 5-4 loss in the round robin, jumping out to a 7-2 lead and cruising to a 15-9 vietory. In the linals, Sobieraj again took an narly lead, going up 9-4. However, 
l 
tt~·.J.
-... ; 
~~-, 
,. ./. 

Petraszek fought back to make it third with Harvard's Tim tense, dosing the scoring to 14-13 Hagamen and three-time All­beforn Sobieraj scored the final American and 2004 Olympian touch to daim his victory. Jason Hogers from Ohio State, the 
"Them aren't too many surpris­latter of which was left out in the es between me and Marek. We've cold after ending up with only a fenced each other for the last plus-44 touch difl'erential. Adam seven or night years and know Crompton, the Buckeyes' other each other pretty wnll," Sobieraj sabre and two-time defending told und.com. champion, also failed to make the 
Notre Dame hnad eoach .Janusz cut, finishing in seventh place Bednarski was not surprisnd by after going 17-6. Sobieraj's success. Ghattas' semifinal bout with 
"I expeeted that Michal would Penn State's Franz Boghicev was be winner because I know that he the sequel to one of the most had a strong drivn to do this," he intense round-robin bouts of the said. lirst two days. When the two lirst 
In vietory. Sobieraj closes out met, Hoghiccv seomed to be on 
his career as a four-time All-American and "As a team. we had 
leaves Notre really, really high 
Damn with a 68­
expectations. " 
24 reeord in the NCAA champi­onship round­Matt Stearns robin, third best in 
Irish sabre 
the school's men's fencing history 
behind sabre Mike Sullivan and before finding his rhythm and foilist Ozren Dobie. winning the bout 15-10. 
llowevcr, Sobicraj was not the "Initially in the pools I was los­only Notre Dame m(m's limcer to ing 4-0, then I kind of figured it make it to the championship bout, out that he was just hitting to my marking tho lirst time sinco 2000 hand every time, so I adjusted that two Irish men's fencers have and came back 4-4 but he scored made the finals. Sophomore the last touch," Ghattas said. "In sabre Patrick Ghattas also made the finals, I felt real confident it to the finals, where he fell to after that 4-0 run in the pools. I Sorjay lsayenko of St. John's. knew I had a real good chance of Ghattas entered the semilinals as beating him." the No. 4 seed, taking the final The championship bout with slot by way of a +46 touch differ­Isayenko again proved to be one ential after his 18-5 round-robin of role reversals, this time work­record put him in a 3-way tie for ing out against Ghattas as his way to a rout, taking a quick 4-0 lead, but Ghattas battled back to tie the score at four before Boghicev registered the linal touch to win. 
When they met again, Ghattas held on to a slim 9-8 lead 

(0~(~ 
HA~l tWt ~ 
On CAmpus (11"A.iUAtion l11Jeeken.t ~peeiAl t')!}Afl 11-16, 100J 
Neecl ct place foy tJDUY fctMLltj to stcttj, TYtj ti-le sacreel t-tectrt 'PC!Ytsn CtV\.ttr ['B.uLLclt~ 3:1. OY :1.:1.~5 011\.. tjOUY CCI V!A..J>US V!A..C!ps.J 
we set ct .f3o.oo peY per.soV\. cloli\..CitLoV\. for tne 
wee~ll\..ct. 
..COMS SARLY [TilUYSciC!tj] -STAY LATE? [Moll\..ctCI tj]" -SCI VIA..t cloli\..CitWV\.. 
For reservcttLoV\..S pl.ectse cctll: 'PctuL Sclcltj ctt .5'}'--'f--63:1.-75:1.2 or MC!rtj Foll\..feYRO Cit .5'}'--'f--63:1.:9-4-36 
COME HEAR COACH WEIS SPEAK ABOUT THE VALUE OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES AND HIS WIFE'S FOUNDATION, 
HANNAH AND FRIENDS. 



page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, March 21, 2005 
Notre Dame's next possession, Duffy's shot put the game away. 
does. Duffy dribbled along the left "Duffy saved all of her St. 
Freshman Charel Allen strug­

Gauchos Hettler 
baseline with the shot clock Patrick's Day karma for that 
gled to just 1-of-6 from the field, continued from page 28 winding down. Guarded tightly shot she made," French said. 
continued from page 28 but added 5-of-6 free throws to by the Gauchos' Mia Fisher, "If she doesn't make that and 
score seven points in 19 minutes Overcoming a difficult day on Duffy drove towards the basket we get one, it's interesting 
basket in frustration, then off the bench. Crystal Erwin did the offensive end by Jacqueline and the normally left-handed down the stretch. 
missed both ensuing free throw not start either, but compliment­Batteast, the Irish (27-5) used shooter threw up a shot with "She's a great leader, and 
attempts. ed Allen's points with six their 2-3 zone to contain the her right hand -nothing but that's what great leaders do." 
It was that kind of day on rebounds in just 14 minutes. Gauchos' (21-9) attack and an net. The Irish looked like a team 
offense for the Big East Player of And even Batteast, who fin­unorthodox shot from Megan "I was just trying to get a that hadn't played in 12 days, 
the Year. ished with just eight points on 4­Duffy in a 61-51 win to shot up before a shot clock vio­committing three turnovers on 
But Notre Dame didn't panic or of-14 shooting, made her mark advance to tonight's second­lation," Duffy said. "The coach­their first four possessions to 
lose confidence, despite its star's by grabbing a game-high 10 round game against Arizona es don't really like me doing start the game. The Gauchos 
rough shooting performance. The rebounds and dishing out three State. that, but it worked out so I'm opened up a quick 8-4 lead. 
Irish simply found another way assists. "We did a great job on Mann. pleased." Switching to a 2-3 zone after 
to win. Thanks to a total team All nine Notre Dame players We really worked hard in our Duffy made 7-of-8 free opening in man-to-man, the 
effort, Notre Dame scratched and who saw action did their part to zone," Irish coach Muffet throws down the stretch to seal Irish forced the Gauchos into 
clawed its way past an underrat­beat Santa Barbara. In past McGraw said. "I think that was the game for the Irish. long offensive possessions. On 
ed Santa Barbara team, 61-51, to games, in past seasons, the Irish the key to the game," Batteast struggled for Notre the other end, the Irish used 
advance to its 10th straight sec­might have folded when Batteast Mann finished with seven Dame, finishing with eight solid entry passes to get easy 
ond-round appearance. went cold. They might have lost points on 2-of-14 shooting. points on 4-of-14 shooting after layups and eventually built a 
And they did it by getting con­confidence and lost faith in their Every time she touched the ball making three of her first four 19-12lead. 
tributions from everyone. abilities. Or they might have just on the perimeter, an Irish shots. The senior made up for The Gauchos responded with 
Breona Gray recorded her sec­plain lost. But this version of defender was in Mann's face, her shooting troubles by grab­a run of their own, an 11-2 
ond double-figure scoring per­Notre Dame didn't even flinch not allowing her to get an open bing a game-high 10 rebounds. spurt highlighted by a deep 3­
formance in the last three games, when Batteast missed time and look. When Mann got the ball Breona Gray and Courtney pointer from Erin O'Bryan that 
finishing with 10 points. But her time again. down on the post. at least two LaVere each had 10 points for put the Gauchos ahead 23-21. 
biggest play came with 2:27 left This 2004-05 squad just found Irish defenders collapsed on the Irish who finished with five 
and the Irish clinging to a 50-46 a way to win. her, taking Mann and the players scoring at least seven 
lead. Now the Irish face challenge 
NOTRE DAME 61,

Gauchos out of their offense. points. 
Covering Santa Barbara's star number two on their path to
CALIF.-SANTA BARBARA 51
"They did a good job of dou­Fisher led UCSB with 18 player, Kristen Mann, Gray antic­Indianapolis. No. 5 Arizona State 
at the SAVE MART CENTER
ble and triple-teaming me. I points, the only Gaucho to 
ipated a pass from the Gauchos' looked impressive in it..o:; win over struggled a lot. They did a good score in double figures. NOTRE DAME (27-5) 
Erin O'Bryan. When O'Bryan No. 12 Eastern Kentucky. The job of collapsing on me. I could­Starting the second half up Batteast 4-14 0-3 8, LaVere 5-10 0-1 10, 
threw the ball to Mann, Gray Sun Devils drained 60 percent of 
Borton 2-2 0-0 4, Duffy 4-8 8-10 18, Gray 
n't even distribute it to my 31-28, the Irish took advantage knocked it away. then gained their shots and had 49 points at
4-8 2-4 10, Gaines 0-1 0-0 0, Allen 1-6 5­teammates," Mann said. "It of a Gauchos team that looked 6 7, D'Amico 1-1 0-0 2, Erwin 1-2 0-0 2. 
control and made an easy layup halftime. Notre Dame will have wasn't my night." tighter and was feeling the Totals 22-52 15-24 61. · 
to put the Irish up by six. its hands full against an athletic, . Gauchos coach Mark French pressure of the NCAA tourna­UCSB (21-9) 
Instead of an opportunity to cut big, physical team tonight. 
Richardson 4-14 0-3 8, Nichols 2-3 3-4 7.
admitted after the game the ment more than during the first Notre Dame's lead in half, Santa But if Saturday's win taught the 
Mann 2-14 2-2 7, Fisher 6-14 6-6 18,
coaching staff should have half. A 16-7 run during the first Bonds 0-4 0-0 0, Wilson 1-5 0-0 2, 
Barbara found itself all but fin­Irish anything, it was that they adjusted the team's strategy 10 minutes of the half extended Bauman 3-3 3-3 9, O'Bryan 2-5 0-0 6. 
ished. are much more than Batteast. after realizing the Irish were Notre Dame's lead to.47-35. Totals 17-5214-16 51. 
"That was a huge basket," With her playing well, Notre focused on taking Mann out his "We kept our poise [in the 
Santa Barbara coach Mark Dame is as good as anyone in the
1st 2nd Total

team's offense. second haln," Duffy said. "We NOTRE DAME 31 30 61 
French said. country. When she's not, the Irish "We probably would have had more turnovers in the first UCSB 28 23 51 
In the first half, when Courtney still have enough firepower to get acknowledged it was one of half, but we settled down. 
LaVere, Teresa Borton and the job done. 
3-point goals: Notre Dame 2-6 (Duffy 2­
those nights that she wasn't "In the locker room, we said Crystal Erwin all had two fouls, As the final buzzer sounded 
3, Allen 0-1, Batteast 0-2), UCSB 3-17shooting well and gone away we have 20 minutes to prove (O'Bryan 2-5, Mann 1-4, Richardson 0-2. 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw Saturday, Batteast showed little from her sooner," French said. what type of team we are, and Bonds 0-3, Wilson 0-3). Fouled out: 
turned to seldom-used freshman emotion by clapping her hands "We've seen her score so well we wanted to leave it on the 
Wilson. Rebounds: Notre Dame 38 
Melissa D'Amico to till in. The softly and congratulating her 
(Batteast 10), UCSB 34 (Nichols, Mann 8). 
for four years that it's hard not court." 
youngster did so admirably, log­opponents on a good game. The 
Assists: Notre Dame 11 (Batteast, Dufi'yto ri~.e the horse that got you But the Irish made things 3), UCSB 11 (Richardson 3). Total fouls: 
ging five minutes and tallying an senior didn't care whether she here. hard on themselves, scoring Notre Dame 17, UCSB 19. 
offensive rebound and a put-back had 48 points or eight -all that Duffy's shot came with the three points during the next 
bucket. mattered was a final score in Irish up six after a Breona Gray 7:3 2 which allowed the 
In the whole scheme of things, favor of the Irish. steal and breakawa.Y layup Gauchos to get within four at Contact Matt Lozar at 
that line may seem insignificant. Batteast gets an opportunity made the score 52-46. On 50-46 before Gray's layup and mlozar@nd.edu 
But more important than scoring tonight to make up for her tough 


or rebounding, D'Amico played 
well enough to keep LaVere, 
Borton and Erwin on the bench, 
where they couldn't get into any "more foul trouble. 
Megan DuffY's performance was outstanding en route to 18 points, including 8-of-1 0 from the line, which nailed Santa Barbara's coffin. The first-team All-Big East selection provided the scoring Batteast usually does -and did so while running the team well, like she normally 
Coffee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, March 22nd 7:30-9:30p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. *Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
offensive day against Santa Barbara. She rarely has a bad shooting performance two games in a row. But Batteast knows that even if her shot doesn't fall as usual, the rest of the Irish will be there, backing her up. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Joe Hettler atjhet­tler@nd. edu. 



Monday, March 21, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
-. -----=-=~=-============================================================================================ 
DILBERT 
~~---------------------~~--_.~----------------~~~------~~._----------~ 
CHARLES SCHULZ
PEANUTS 

SCOTT ADAMS 

WOW. USUALLY ITS JUST A FIGURE OF SPEECH WHEN PEOPLE SAY, ''I DON'T KNOW HOW TO SAY THIS." 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LEROD 

j
I I r () 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
WAKTE 

j
I I r 

HASFIM± 
www.jumble.com 

FORFET j

rJ r [J 
A 

HE ·1 I I r I J·r I r Jrn 
(Answers tomorrow) -•:> Saturday's I Jumbles: BEFIT PHONY QUIVER FABLED Answer: When the judge had an early court call, he found defendants-UP BEFORE HIM 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


CROSSWORD WlLLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 36 Irrelevant, as a 67_four 1 Swear to point (teacake) 5 "What's the 38 Jump for joy 68 Marsh plant 
that can 39 A barber has to 69 Clutter 
happen?" work around it 70 Perfect places 10 Nose (out) 40 Faculty member 71 Luke 14 Ending with 42 Burn _crisp Skywalker's 
hard or soft mentor
43 First-class 
15 Baker who sang 45 Radio tuner"Sweet Love," DOWN46 Glimpse1986 

1_plane
16 Shed one's skin 47 Gym shoes, for (military craft)short17 Many a 2 Comparison homecoming 49 "Golden Boy" shopper's quest attendee playwright 3 Blow one's topClifford18 Work over, as a 4 Channelship 51 Clothesline surfers' gadgets alternative19 Fat of the lamb 5 Violation of the53 Wrestler20 "Draw one," in Geneva
diner slang 57 Companion for 

Convention 23 Wildebeest 
Tarzan 6" 'Clock 

24 English dog 59 "Sun kiss," in Jump" (1930'sdiner slang
25 Straight from hit) the garden 62 Holds close 
7 Jazz phrase 27 Rewrites 64 Oak-to-be 
aNot flexible 30 Broken arms 65 Gaming table 9 Idaho produce, 
may go in them fee 

informally 34 Make, as money 44 Deface 55 Played on stage 33 Foul callers 66 Hence 
10 Ambulance inits. 
35 "Flop two," in 46 Ocean inlet 56 "I vacation!" 11 "Life diner slang 
48 South-of-the-57 Throat-clearingANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE preservers," in border shawl
37 Sen. Cochran of sounddiner slang Mississippi 50 Mahal
~±+.-+7:-fl!!ll 12 Secluded valley 58 Unadulterated 
40 Capital where 52 Went like the
13 "_,Brute?" 60 Written
the yen is wind 
-=-+-=+-=+-:::+=+::-t 21 Gave dinner reminder
capital 

54 Sal of "Rebel
*'*':-r::+:-t-:::-1 22 Moray catcher 41 Periodic table Without a 61 Smile listings Cause" 63 "Send help!"
.....~~f!tt~IJ~tt~B 26 Half a dozen
~ 28 Land hopper 29 Prefix with 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with alogical 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 31 Ladleful of 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundayunappetizing crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. food 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 -=+-=+-:-+:-:+.=+:::+.::+::-1 32 Command to past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).Fido 
Share tips: ny1imes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young ..._.__._'-'-...L....-'-.-33 Foes of Dems. solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS DAY: Chrisly Carlson Romano, 21; Holly Hunter, 47; Spike Lee, 4H; Carl Reiner, H3 
Happy Birthday: You have a lillie added !lair lhis year. so don'! slop unlil you g<"l lo hask in I he limelighl. An opporlunily In pul one of your ideas inlo play will hring you added respect and confidence. Rclalionships will develop wilh people who will conlrihule ralhcr I han lean on you for a change. Your numhcrs arc 9, 13, 22, 36, 3H, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will have some uni4uc ideas !hal should help you gel whal you wanl. Take a lrip down memory lane or visil wilh old friends. An old hohby may inlercsl you again. hul from a differenl slandpoinl. ***U TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Work hehind lhe scenes loday. If you lry to eollahorule wilh olhcrs. you will accomplish lillie and prohahly end up feeling angry or lei down. Focus on whal il will lake to move in a direclion !hal you feel drawn lo. ** GEMINI (Muy 21-.Junc 20): If you lry y;mr hand al somclhing new, you will feel salislied. There is so much for you In lake in and learn ahoul. If you I ravel nr allcnd a seminar, you will meel people who will share a uni4ue experience wilh you. ••** CANCER (June 2I-,July 22): Prepare 10 face opposilion if you decide you wanllo argue a mool poinl. You arc far hcllcr off working on somclhing !hal will make your home more comforlablc. This is nol lhc lime to dcbale. hul ralher In make some necessary changes in your life. ••• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will hask in lhe limclighl loday and lake greal pride in knowing thai your friends arc supporlive. Push a lillie harder and you will advance in more areas of your life. This is a day for viclory. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): ll's lime lo crack lhe whip and gel 1hings going. Relalionships can blossom; :lllcnding an even! or fundraiscr will lead lo some inlcrcsling ideas and people. Your area of cxperlise will he apprccialed and sough! afler. ••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Do somclhing nice fnr I he ones you love. The more you give 10 others, the bctlcr you will feel ahoul yourself. An opportunily is in lhc piclure. Prepare to engage in somclhing very inlercsling. •••• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 2I): Your secretive manner will enhance your appcalloday. You will he in a crealivc high cycle !hal will help you masler a projccl you've hccn working on. Don'! 1rus1 anyone wilh your ideas and concepts. •••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-nec. 21): Praise for your accomplishmcnls will come your way, and a rare opporlunity lo engage in an inleresting projecl wilh someone you respccl will unfold. Counl your hlessings and enjoy 1hc ride. ••••• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Focus on whal you can accumulalc loduy. Properly, invcslments, anli4ucs or anylhing else thai can grow in value should he looked al closely. An older relative may need your help. ••• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You'll he good al multilasking loday, so line up all the lhings you wanl lo accomplish and gel t>usy. The satisfaclion you gel when everything is done will pul you in a grcal mood. Love is in lhc slurs. ••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Consider what you can dolo improve your heahh . Dicl, exercise or even a lrealing yourself to a slrcss-rclicving massage should he penciled in. The more you dolo promolc whal's good for you personally, lhe hellcr you will do in lhc fulurc. ••• 
Uirthday Uaby: You have power, charisma and lhc uhilily lo lake charge of any situation. You arc changeahlc and will adapt readily if you feel il is 10 your henelil. You do everylhing in a t>ig way. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for .fim, t•ugenialast.mm for confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 



THE 0HSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, March 21, 2005 
page 28 
FENCING 

National champions 
Irish come from behind to win ninth title 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
HOUSTON-There were a lot of smiles on Sunday afternoon when Katia Larchanka of St. John's touched Ohio State's Metta Thompson to secure victory in the pair's women's foil See Also 
bout. "Irish women 
Those happyfaces all find place among 
belonged to all-time greats"the men and 
page 20
women of the Notre Dame fencing team, who saw them­selves move into sole possession of first place at the first and best time. Moments earlier. senior Irish foilist Alicja Kryczalo defeat­ed Columbia's Cassidy Luitjen to give the Irish at least a shared title, but with Thompson's loss, the Irish clinched their seventh national championship and their second in three years, edging Ohio State 173-171. 
"Overall I'm so happy with 
see CHAMPS/page 25 


FOOTBALL 

Admissions, staff 'on the same page' 
This is the third of a three­part series detailing the recruiting methods and policies under new head coach Charlie Weis. 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Charlie Weis established his recruiting priority immediately by inviting 80 juniors to campus. He con­firmed his concern for bringing top talent to Notre Dame by assembling an experienced coaching staff. But from the beginning, Weis understood his most significant relationship throughout the recruiting process would be his inter­action with the admissions department. 
Over the brief time span Weis has spent in South Bend thus far, the head coach said his relationship and interactions with the admissions department have been positive and encouraging in accordance with his expectations of his alma mater. 
"I think that having a working relationship with the director of admissions, and the admissions staff is imperative to success," Weis said. 
Standards for Notre Dame student-athletes dif­fer from those of compet­ing programs and schools. Dan Saracino, director of admissions, believes Weis, a 1978 Notre Dame gradu­ate, has an advantage in being more familiar with the school. 
"One of the benefits of having a Notre Dame alumnus in that position is he understands Notre Dame," ·Saracino said. "He understands and does not believe that we need to admit anyone just because they're a good athlete." 
Saracino visited Weis' staff on Feb. 19 to inform the less-familiar assistant coaches of Notre Dame's recruiting history and expectations, both Weis and Saracino said. 
see STAFF/page 23 
BENGAL BouTs ~ 
Champions crowned Saturday 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
Another year of Bengal Bouts came to a dose Saturday, with 11 new champions named after a night of furious fights. Sarpong def. Gallegos 
The lights dimmed, the crowd buzzed and the judges peered. It was time for the championship rounds of the 75th annual Bengal Boul'l. 
In the 126-pound weight divi­sion, Peter Sarpong took on Daniel Gallegos. Throughout the first round, Sarpong attacked. He looked like the aggressor until the first bell rang. 
But Gallegos fought back in the second round. Gallegos wailed, blocked and wailed more. At one point, he had Sarpong stumbling. Sarpong kept his balance and kept up for the remainder of the 
see BOUTS/page 23 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
First round of NCAAs no problem 
Irish move on to second round with 61-51 'Win aver UCSB 
By MATT LOZAR Senior Staff Writer 
FRESNO, Calif. -The game plan for Notre Dame against California-Santa Barbara was simple -stop Big West player of the year Kristen Mann. 
Mann came into 
See Also

Satur­day's first "Irish prepare for round of 
deep Arizona State

the NCAA tourna­
team in 2nd round" m e n t 
page24

be i n g held to single digits only once in the Gauchos' previous 29 games. 
She left the Save Mart Center at Fresno State University with that total at two. 
see GAUCHOS/page 26 


Batteast's play not stellar, but rest of team makes up for it 
FRESNO, Calif.-Clank after clank, brick after briek, Jacqueline Batteast kept chucking up jumpers in Notre Dame's first-round NCAA Tourna­ment game against California Santa Barbara Saturday, and she kept watching helplessly as the ball went any­where but through the hoop. 
After dra­wing a foul late in the second half, in the midst of missing yet another short field goal, Batteast fired the ball off the 

Joe Hettler 
Senior Staff Writer 

see HETTLER/page 26 


MEN'S TRACK 
Nil SOfTBAll
WOMEN'S TRACK BASEBALL MEN'S lACROSSE NCAA MEN'S HOOPS 

..... 

Irish ~rform well Irish inconsistent Notre Dame 22, 
Pair of No.2 at Williams Classic 
EriJma wins 200 at Team ~oes 2-1 at 
Wi iams Classic Colum us, Ohio over weekend Butler 6 seeds fall 

'"' 
::5 

Chris Staron places The Irish easily defeat Notre Dame's pitch-Sophomore sprinter The Irish had little dif-Wake Forest and
c:s 

fifth in high jump with a sets a personal best en Oakland and Eastern ing especially struggles ficulty with the Connecticut each suf­
=: cc 

leap of 1.94 meters. 
Michigan, but suffer aroute to her victory in as team goes 1-2 at neu-Bulldogs in their 

fered losses in the sec-the 200-meter dash. 
loss to Marshall. 

tral-site Evansville. 
league-opening game. 
ond round of the NCAA Tournament. 

page 22 page 22 
page 20 
page 19 page 18 page 17 







