
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Education underlies University regulations 
This broad idea of education you should be permanently nary suspension or permanent
Punishments, rules 
is the underlying prineiple of dismissed and not be permit­dismissal," duLac reads. 
range in severity the rules and regulations listed ted to return ... we consider it Other violations outlined in in duLac, the University's offi­the worst that eould happen duLac "may result in" discipli­cial guide to student life that because it's kind of a failure in nary suspension or permanentBy MADDIE HANNA was first issued in 1974 and the sense that we can't edu­dismissal -a phrase that Kirk A.sociatr News Editor today is often a target of stu­cate this person anymore," said serves as "a way to give dent animosity. Kirk said. students kind of a heads-up While not irreversible, sus­[that! these are some of the 
A Notn~ Dame educati1ln is "We can't educate this pension still indieates a seri­more serious violations of the morn than just a diploma, stu­person anymore" ous problem, Kirk said. University expectation of dents and administrators duLac outlines a host of "[Suspension] says you need behavior." agn~n -it's an all-encompass­potential sanetions the to take some time away and This second tier of violations, ing experience that permeates University has the power to renect upon your behavior," he duLac states, ineludes acts of evory aspeet of' campus life, administer: Verbal or Written said. "You need to understand physical violence or serious settling over the Grotto in its Warning, Alcohol/Drug the expectations of the eom­personal injury, theft, demon­quidost moments and filling Assessment and/or Education, munity, and the community, for strations of disrespeet to the Stadium in its loudest. Psychological Assessment, the time being, can't tolerate University officials, damage to 
And much to the chagrin of Monetary Fine, Ban from your presenee." property, dishonesty, forgery, scHne students, it's disdpline. Speei!ic Area of Campus, Loss So what warrants discipli­taking advantage of another 
"We'ro not a judicial process, of a Speeifie Student Privilege, nary suspension or dismissal? for personal gain, hazing, will­wo're not a legal process -we Community Service, Transfer Students who engage in sex­ful damage to the reputation are an educational institution," or Loss of On-Campus Housing ual miseonduet, possess or use or psychological well-being of Associate Viee President for Privilege, Hall Probation, any eontrolled substance, pro­others and serious distur­Student Affairs Bill Kirk said. Disciplinary Probation, vide illicit drugs to others, bances of the University eom­"All of' our sanctions, all of our Disciplinary Suspension and engage in sexual union outside munity. !disciplinary! processes are the most severe -Permanent of marriage, or aecrue It's a long list of clauses and intended to be part of the edu­Dismissal. overnight parietals violations complexities, but one point cational process." "When the University says "shall be subject to diseipli-pops up repeatedly -commu-

Police cite 26, arrest four at game 
By KATIE PERRY A'sistant News Editor 
l>nspitn an earlier fbotball game start -an hour and a half before the previous week's kickoff­poliee said them was "no signifi­cant dillilrence" in the number of citations issued and arrests made at Saturday's mateh-up against Navy. 
l'oliee said the Nov. 8 Tennessee game's 2:30 p.m. start time allowed fans morn time to tailgate bntim~ the game and was a factor in the amount of dtations issued. But even with Saturday's earlier 1 
p.m. kickoff time, Director of 
see NDSP/page 6 



International Nevvsvveek journalist speaks 
Ilenneberg said. "My father By KATIE LINHARES wanted me to be an News Writer aceountant, but I would be 
the worst accountant. I'm a 
Melinda Henneberg, a words person." journalist for Newsweek Even as a toddler, Magazine and a 1980 Notre Henneberg was eertain Dame graduate, spoke of journalism was her calling. her experiences as a jour­A Pulitzer Prize winner for nalist Monday in the first of her work with Newsday, a series of events sched­Henneberg is now involved uled for International with political profiling at Edueation Week. Newsweek -where she 
Henneberg stressed that writes in-depth stories on students interested in jour­prominent politicians. nalism should not be dis­"Political profiling is a couraged by unsupportive ehallenge, but usually you parents or declining read­end up liking the people. ership at major newspa­We are not focused on the pers. flaws of each person, but 
"If you are drawn to this, that is who you are," see NEWS/page 6 nity. 
While the wording might seem vague -"any actions which seemingly affect only the individuals involved but which have direct bearing on the University community and concern personal and academ­ic growth" -Kirk said it is present not to be charg1~d on its own, but to indicatn the importanee of community and show students how thoir aetions play out in the big pie­lure of campus lil'e. 
This big picture approach can mean that students who cause serious problems are forced to move off-campus, ho said. 
"Sometimes it's appropriate that the student can't live in the eommunity or isn't living in tho community well, and you don't want them to damage the community," Kirk said. "Sometimes the stud1mt wants 
see RULES/page 4 


NDsenior class starts to register 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER 
News Writer 
The first day of class regis­tration for the spring semester was problem-free for seniors yesterday as they registered for classes with the new InsideND system, oftieials said. 
"Everything is going incredi­bly smoothly," Assistant Hegistrar Doug McKenna said. "We're so far in a good posi­tion." 
Under the new registration system, students become eligi­ble to register for elasses every 15 minutes, McKenna said. Each student is randomly assigned a "registration time ticket," and once his or her designated time begins, he or she may begin registering for classes. 
InsideND debuted in the spring of 2005 and replaced the former lrishLink system. It provides students with the opportunity to log in and add or drop classes continuously from the start of their registra­tion periods until the seventh day of classes in the spring. Under the old IrishLink system, students were only able to log in during their designated 15­minute registration period and were only able to log in to make changes at spedfie times outside that time period. 
see SENIORS/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 15, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Love don't cost a thing 

There are an infinite number of reasons why living off campus is better than living on, but one that is often overlooked is cable TV and the On Demand feature Comcast provides. It has 
Nick Guerrieri

allowed me to watch the movie masterpiece 
Advertising

"Love Don't Cost 
Manager

a Thing" more than a dozen times. This 2003 remake of the popular "Can't Buy Me Love," is a movie that defies all bounds and laughs in the face of naysayers. "You can't have success by taking a formulaic script and adding Nick Cannon and some Sean Jean." Hahahaha, yes yes you can. "Christina Milian is a failed pop star, not a compelling actress." My good man, you couldn't be more wrong. 
It may have only gotten one star in the Comcast viewers guide, but as an ex-film major I can confi­dently say that this movie was a R­Kelly theme song away from being a box office smash. For those of you who haven't yet seen this film, allow me to enlighten you. Nick Cannon, a pool boy who struggles socially, pays Christina Milian, the funky fresh biddy of the city, to date him and in turn make him popular. Their escapades turn the pool boy into "Aqua Man" and in no time he is "scooping shorties" with ease. 
Eventually, the deal is discovered and Cannon is once again reverted to a social leper. Just when you reach the height of your rage from this social injustice Milian realizes she has been "frontin' her whole life" and decides to indeed become Cannon's "breezy." Not since Barry Gordy's The Last Dragon has such drama and yet such truth been brought to the silver screen, because deep down inside we know that we all front from time to time. 
It's refreshing to see a movie with the courage to say, hey, it's . OK to fake a front as long as you leave that mess on the flip side. I for one have learned that whether I'm actin' tha fool or staying wild decent you always have to keep it for real for real. I challenge everyone reading this column to take the 90 minutes out of their lives to watch this film and reflect the way I have. 
I'm a senior this year and in a couple of months I will be ventur­ing out into the cruel world outside the safe confides of Notre Dame. It's clear now that this world will allow a well-mannered pool boy to have his heart broken. I can only hope that when I find myself in the proverbial role of pool boy I will have a fly breezy to hold my hand and tell me everything is going to be OK. . 
Contact Nick Guerrieri at nguerrie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mis­take, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT THE COURSE REGISTRATION PROCESS? 




Bill Reimer Chris Wagner Greg McAlpin 
junior junior junior 
Sarin Zahm Sarin 

"J don't really 'Tm glad I'm a "Aquaman have an opinion psych major.,, doesn't need to because I'm register for transferring to classes., Saint Mary's 
,
next semester. 

OFFBEAT 
Prosthetic center to make leg for puppy 
FLINT TOWNSHIP, Mich. -Rex Miller has made artificial limbs for lots of humans, but never for a dog. Until now. Miller, owner of the Greater Flint Prosthetic Center, made a cast last week that will guide him on how to make a new leg for 4-month-old Peg, a puppy born without an ankle joint or right paw. 
"She'll be able to walk and run better, but she'll proba­bly always still have a little hitch in her giddyup," said Miller, who lost his own right leg trying to jump a train when he was 15. 
TODAY 


Making an artificial leg for a puppy can be tricky. It could be attached to the dog's leg with a harness or a Velcro-type material. To pre­vent her from chewing on the leg, it will be made of materi­al similar to bulletproof vests. 
Veterinarians with Baker College's training program put Peg under anesthesia and took X-rays to help Miller make the leg. Baker joined Miller in doing the work for free because Peg's owner, Carol Beavnier, works for a nonprofit organization. 
Woman drives station wagon into bookstore 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska -A 
Leanne Wiborg 
junior Cavanaugh 
"Registration's a cinch: Australian beaches IOI !" 
woman drove a station wagon through a wall of the Barnes & Noble book­store, sending glass, wood and books flying. Three people suffered leg injuries. Two were taken to a hospital. The store was filled with shop­pers at about 2 p.m. Sunday when the Subaru station wagon plowed backward through picture windows in a reading area in the store's northwest corner. The car took out the travel section and bar­reled about 40 feet through the bookstore before coming to rest in nonfiction. 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

Sophia Cortez 
freshman Breen-Phillips 
"It sounds partial to upperclassmen, but in some respects that's how it should be. , 

Tunde Disu 
senior Knott 
"What's that?" 
IN BRIEF 

The Notre Dame Army, Navy and Air Force ROTC units will hold a blood drive from 2 p.m. to 7 p.m today in room 107 of the Pasquerilla Center. 
R.M. Berry, professor of English at Florida State University and an expert in 20th century literature will speak about "Did the Novel Die? [and Would We Know?]" as part of the "Artworlds of the Sixties" lecture series at 4:30 p.m. 
today  in  room  210-214  
McKenna Hall.  
Suzan Shown  Harjo,  a  

Native American journalist, will speak on diversity today at 7 p.m. in Vannet Theater at Saint Mary's Student Center. 
0. Carter Snead, associate professor of law in the Notre Dame Law School, will be giving a lecture on "Speaking Truthfully About Stem Cell Research and Human Cloning" at 4 p.m. Wednesday in McKenna Hall auditorium. 
Jaleel White, a.k.a Steve Urkel, will be speaking about life and experience in show business on Wednesday at 7:30p.m. in DeBartolo 101. 
Susan Peters, Vice President of General Electric, will speak on the roles of women in corporate America at 7 p.m. Thursday in The Little Theater in Moreau Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 40 HIGH 40 LOW 28 LOW 29 
.... 
ct 
(,) 


0 
HIGH 53 HIGH 45 HIGH 40 HIGH 45

...I 
LOW 49 LOW 32 LOW 27 LOW 27 
Atlanta 72 I 58 Boston 45 I 42 Chicago 49 I 40 Denver 33 I 21 Houston 77 I 67 Los Angeles 89 I 57 Minneapolis 46 1 32 New York 54 I 46 Philadelphia 58 I 45 Phoenix 85 I 57 Seattle 50 I 38 St. Louis 56 I 46 Tampa 85 I 65 Washington 61 149 

Tuesday, November 15, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Metnbers exatnine fiscal policy 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 
The Council of Hepresentatives (COlO met Monday night to dis­cuss rncommnndations for dmn!-{11s to tlw Student Union fis­r.al policy. 
"As wo are moving forward with a proposal to increase the student activity fee, this is a per­fnet opportunity to inspect the Studnnt Union fiscal policy," stu­dent body president Davn Baron said. 
In the past week, Baron mnt with a small group of con 
"This is a perfect
members to discuss the fiscal policy. opportunity to Those discussions 
inspect the 5J'tudent 
producnd a list of 
Union fiscal policy. " 
four recommenda­tions. It was suggested Dave Baron that Studnnt Union student body president 
treasurer Mike Marshall present a Student Union treas­ury report to COH each month. The report would cover monthly spending, Finaneial Management Board activity, appeals and business hoard updates. 
"As far as business board updates go, I would reeommend having th11 business board man­ager make that report following llwir monthly meetings," Marshall said. 
Heeommendations also called for a darification of the scope and purpose of fund appeals, induding carry-forward. con collaboration, technology, contin­gency and charity funds. 
"This infi1rmation is not exactly well known to all clubs and organizations," Baron said. "Thny need to know about the funds that are available for them to access." 
Not all of these funds are part of the budget at this time, Marshall noted, pointing out the technology and contingency funds. 
"Hight now those don't even 
exist," Marshall said. "If' you think they're important to develop and put in the budget, that's fine, but right now they don't exist at all." 
H e a I -t i m e access of 
account infor­mation to group controllers and treasurers was 

a priority among recommenda­tions presented to the group, as treasurers of groups currently have to get printouts of their spending from Marshall. 
"This would give treasurers the ability to go to InsideND and figure out what they've spent," Baron said. "It makes it easier because there's not a delay." 
Student Activities advisor Amy Geist said the administration is reluetant to give students access to financial information. 
"There is a higher expnetation for student government than for ollieers of individual dubs," she said. "I don't know that the University is interested in giving every dub treasurer access to their accounts." 
The group's final recommenda­tion involved a potential cap on the carry-forward fund, which now contains $180,000. The account must have at least $15,000, but has no maximum eap. 
"At one point a few years ago, a large sum was put in to make a safety net," Baron said. "But $180,000 is much more than we need to have in that." 
If a cap is put in place, student government must decide what to do with the excess funds in the account at that time. 
"My personal idea is that it has to be something permanent that students 20 years down the lines ean benefit from," Baron said. 
Baron noted the carry-forward f'und is supposed to be used for capital expenditure, not to accommodate a deficit in the budget, though that is how it is currently used. Student govern­ment can currently withdraw $10,000 from the fund each year. 
A number of COR members volunteered to serve on smaller hrroups for closer examination of the carry-forward fund recom­mendations and to clarify the scope and purpose of the fund appeals. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Group voices concern over e-111ail -wording 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 
Board of Governance mem­bers met Monday night to dis­cuss recent e-mail<> sent by cam­pus seeurity mgarding reported sexual assault by a Saint Mary's student while on Notre Dame's campus. 
Women's Issues commissioner Katie Kelly said she was con­cerned that the wording of the e-mail that included warnings about assault prevention such as "never leave your beverage and then pick it back up, never accept a beverage from some­one" could imply that rape is partly the victim's fault. 
"I think it is great and impor­tant to know about !sexual assault incidents on campus!. but it is how they put it out there that is the problem," Kelly said. "They should mention the coun­seling center, S.O.S. and the Women's Center as places where victims can get help." 
Kelly's pursuit for a change in the e-mails intensified after she read an anonymous posting on the faculty-staff discussion forum on the College's "Virtual Village" blog that argued against the warnings potentially insinu­ating the fault of the victim. 
Kelly said the anonymous posting was written in a way that warned studenl<> to be cau­tious of their clothing, body Ian­guage and drinking habiL<> while out. 
"I was just partieularly dis­turbed that the posting was found in the faculty-stall" section, however, that does not neces­sarily moan the posting was donn by a staff nwmbnr," slw said. 
Missions commissioner .hmny Hobbins was also disturbnd by the posting and the wording of the warnings in thn e-mails snnt out by College security. 
"It seems they are saying th11 problem is if you wear a short skirt. you might gnt raped," she said. "It is just the implieation that you have eontrol ovnr thn situation." 
Kelly weleomed suggnstions from the Board on how to resolve this issue. 
Hnsidenee Hall Commissioner Jackie Wright suggested that she could speak with security about adding information about victim's counseling to the n­mails. 
Kelly said that measurn would be a benefieial ehange in the overall tone of the e-mails. To promote awareness for change, she encouraged the board to attend the Campus Alliance fi1r Hape Elimination in the snxual assault vietim vigil at 7:15 p.m. on Thursday in front of the stu­dent center. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at luneehaO 1 @saintmacys.edu 




IVlTER.VlATIOI/lAL EDtACATIC>I/1 'WEEK r:; 


$T-l8 
S.POHS.O~Et> e:v * ~ l:S..S.A " 01'-t>.e• of' J:n~orn.,."tionol S."tudi•s ., J:ns?i'tU~o ·f'or Lo~ino .S."tudo•s ~ K<OIIo>gg Xns?i"tu?• ~ ..,..,.,.,..,.,,., J:ns't"i"tu""" " Fisch•r Giraduo?• Res>d•nc•s Xn~eM1o?ionol MBA'S " l:ndl"'n S"tud•n'l' .Associo'f"ion ,. P.-.sid<tn'l'·s 01'-tic• "' 
t>eon's Of''fic•. CoUeg• o'f .,.,...,.,. ond Let'"tei"'S .. Program in GO<end•r S."tudi•s D The Co,....er C.n?<tr .. e·os"t A.sion Longuo>g•s & Lt'horQ"tu..... s "Depor"hn•n1" o'f Biology ., D•por-tmcn'l' o"f Am41U'"'ic:on S.'f"udtes <fl7 AAA >b OLA t2< Alumni Assoct:o't'ion -~> 

For a calendar ol ovonts go to: www.nd.odu/-lssa/IEW 
TUESDAY,NOVEMBER15 

UNITED FOR PAKISTAN EARTHQUAKE RELIEF CANDLELIGHT VIGIL 
6pm, Fieldhouse Mall 

INTERNATIONAL SCIENCE SEMINAR 
The Department of Biological Sciences will host a seminar, "International Disease Research and Public Health." The speakers will include Professor Frank Collins on Malaria research in Africa and Professor Thomas Streit, CSC, on Lymphatic Filariasis in Haiti. 7-8:30pm DeBartolo, Room 102 
TEN THOUSAND VILLAGES FAIRLY· TRADED GOODS SALE CONTINUES 
Shop for Christmas ornaments, jewelry, and other gift items from around the world. Monday-Thursday, 10am-4pm; First Floor LaFortune Friday, 10am-4pm; Great Hall, O'Shaughnessy 
Full Week Calendar of Events at: www.nd.edu/-issa/IEW.htm 
r-----------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 15, 2005 
would send it to us, and we ence or an administrative sarily in their present form," since different departments would then send a notice out hearing and wants to appeal senior Caitlin Evans said. "I oversee the two categories.

Rules 

to the student asking them to the decision, duLac permits a think family members Iof the "Is [sex outside of marriage] come meet with us in a disci­case review on the grounds of opposite sex] certainly should as serious as lying and cheat­
continued from page 1 

plinary conference." a "procedural defect in the dis­be allowed." ing on an exam? They're dif­to live in that community, des­A letter is also sent to the ciplinary process" or "the dis­Shoup disagreed with this ferent violations," Kirk said. perately wants to live in that student's rector, Shoup said. covery of substantive new line of reasoning, "They're both vio­community, but they don't The conference usually takes information" that would have referring again to lations of a com­understand how important place a week after the incident impacted the outcome of the the Notre Dame munity standard. that community is until they're with a member of the Office of case. community. "The objective is They're both seri­asked to leave Residence Life "To me, if it was ous."
not to enforce

it." and Housing, A University "speeding a boyfriend or a When ques-The idea of "Sometimes the student the student, the ticket" little brother, it rules, but to help tioned as to how community rector and Parietals, Notre Dame's visit­would be the same people see the the University
wants to live in the 
extends occasionally the ing-hours rule that prohibits kind of violation," regarded oral sex
wisdom in it all. " 

beyond cam­community, desperately student's RA. visitors of the opposite sex Shoup said. "It's a on the spectrum pus as well. wants to live in that "We talk with from being in dorms after mid­violation that has of violations, Kirk Students living [the student] night on weekdays and 2 a.m. to do with the Father Paul Doyle said he felt duLac
community, but they 
on-or off­about what the on weekends, serves as an apt community and Dillon rector outlined the sexu­
don't understand how 
campus who report said, let example of the University's people's privacy." al policy clearly. get in trouble important that them read the disciplinary spectrum with In sophomore "But that kind with the law report if they regards to a particular policy David Gruener's of sexual behav­
community is until 
whether wanted to read violation. eyes, the parietals policy is ior is clearly something that
they're asked 
through South it and then talk Shoup explained the unnecessarily restrictive and could result in a sanction," he Bend, St. to leave it. " with the rector specifics of the doesn't prevent the said. Joseph County about their citi­policy and how behavior targeted or Indiana zenship in the violations are by the University. "The wisdom in it all"
Bill Kirk 

State Excise hall," Shoup perceived and "To me, ifit was a "I understand Father Paul Doyle, who has
Associate Vice President 
police officers said. handled in the they want to be served as Dillon's rector for
boyfriend or a 

-also face for Student Affairs The student Office of seen as a school nine years, echoed Kirk's
little brother, it 

sanctions from must then sub­Residence Life that upholds its statements about the impor­the Office of mit a personal and Housing. would be the same values," said tance of education in the disci­Residence Life and Housing. statement explaining the inci­"The compari­Gruener, who does plinary system.
kind ofviolation. " 

"It's an expectation of behav­dent to Residence Life staff, son I make is to not believe in sex "The objective is not simply ior for you that you abide by -Shoup said. A second meeting getting a speed-before marriage. behavior modification, but 
Jeff Shoup 

the federal, state and local occurs where the staff member ing ticket," "But the rule has insight," Doyle said. "The laws, and so if we become gives the student a decision Shoup said. Director of Residence no weight on my objective is not to enforce aware of a violation, we have about the sanction. "The more Life and Housing decision. People rules, but to help people see to respond to it and address it But if the violation is repeat­you're over, the who are having sex the wisdom in it all." because you represent the ed -for example, a third inci­worse it is. And before marriage New to the University this University," Kirk said. "For dence of intoxication -the that's just are going to do it year, Walsh rector Sister Janet one, it affects your personal student goes to an administra­because the farther you are whether parietals are there or Stankowski said she was not growth and development, and tive hearing, where he is per­over the limit, the more inten­not, before or surprised by we take an interest in that." mitted to bring witnesses and tion [there] seems." after two a.m." the scope of 
Assistant Director of Notre a peer support person from Shoup said if a student stays As a Catholic N o t r e
"It's an expectation of

Dame Security/Police (NDSP) the student-run Judicial five minutes past parietals, the institution, the Dame's regu­Phil Johnson said when he Council. Again, the student dorm's resident assistant University says behavior for you that lations. learns of criminal cases from submits a written statement would likely issue a verbal sexual union you abide by the federal, "I assumed other police and returns for a warning. One hour over the outside of mar­that smooth
state and local laws, and

departments that follow up meeting limit would likely mean a riage means systems run involve Notre with Residence report sent to the Office of etiher discipli­so ifwe become aware of smoothly Dame students. "People who are Life staff. Residence Life and Housing, nary suspen­a violation we have to b e c a u s e NDSP will notify having sex before Violations men-resulting in a disciplinary con­sion or dis­there are
respond to it and

the Office of tioned earlier ference. Overnight violations missal. But in a some guide­
marriage are going tagged by the
Hesidence Life mean an administrative hear­case regarding address it because you lines," she and Housing. to do it whether "may result in" ing. "flagrant" vio­represent the said. Kirk said this parietals are there phrase mean the "When we look at an lation of the But while
University. " 

system of refer­student will auto­overnight parietals violation, University rectors may
or not, before or
rals is meant to matically face a we say, 'Well, that's a real vio­Academic Code deem Notre keep the Notre after two a.m. " hearing in the lation of the trust in the com­of Honor, the Bill Kirk Dame's disci­Dame community Office of munity,"' Kirk said. "People Honesty Associate Vice President plinary in mind. Residence Life live together with the idea that Committee processes
David Gruener for Student Affairs 
"We don't sim­rather than a dis­this is our home, and to invite "may recom­smooth,
sophomore
ply advocate ciplinary confer-someone into our home and to mend" suspen-many stu­responsibility for ence, Shoup said. violate the privacy and the sion or dis-dents see you when you Sanctions vary security, that's a serious viola­missal, duLac reads. And a cracks in the system. The leave campus-you're part of from case to case and can tion." "major offense" carries the fourth part or" this series will this community, and you're in include a combination of fines, Some students question spe­penalty of an "F" in the course examine perceived inconsis­violation of community laws, community service and a cific aspects of the parietals -but not necessarily suspen­tencies in regulation of whether they be out in the referral to the Office of Alcohol policy. sion. University policies. community or here on cam­and Drug Education. "I think as a Catholic univer­It's difficult to contrast stu­pus," he said. "And so we do If a student goes through sity, they do probably have to dent life violations and Honor Contact Maddie Hanna at take that seriously. Some uni­either a disciplinary confer-have parietals, but not neces-Code violations, Kirk said, mhannal@nd.edu 
versities don't, but we-do." 
"Reslifed" 
Many students who violate the rules mentioned in· duLac get sent to the Office of Residence Life and Housing ­commonly referred to as "HesLife" -for either a disci­plinary conference or an administrative hearing. 
Director of Residence Life and Housing Jeff Shoup explained the process in terms of a reported intoxication. 
"Typically if a student is intoxicated to the point where a rector is concerned and calls security or calls an ambulance, a report is generated, usually both from the hall staff and security," Shoup said. "They 




Crash Course 
'lluesda:y,; NQ.;a?embec 1•5t:/4 5:.-tJtJ~fi..:3fJ PM Jl'launer Hull Basement 
Ray Vander Heyden~ the official career advisor for business students at the 
Car-eer Center, will introduce everything that the Career €enter has to 
offer. He and llis staft wiU slle>w us ho.w to utili~e all of the Careett Center 
resources-including alumni networking, jO;b/internship searches, resume 
reviews, mock int.e.rv.ie;vs, a.n···d· m... ·~re •.T.·•· be. r .. e.•.. w~···l·l·· ·b···e ~.s.pecia·l·· to.~r o.~ the _.A.
~· 
Career Center.. Dress IS casual.. Pizza and Dru;d~s will be provided. ~/ 
APPROVED FOR POSTING PULL DATI? 
NOV 1 6 2Du5 

UWIB 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
\J-"fl :.t-<i•.>U'II:,.UIJ4'J •.:: -O.:HIIIfl:,.. IN tUKl.INISc-MV 
UNIVERSI1Y OF NOTRE DAME 








ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November I 5, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WlRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. troop attack kills 50 insurgents 
Bi\(;lll>i\1>. Iraq -U.S. and Iraqi troops Iaunrhml a frnsh attack Monday against an insurgnnt stronghold rwar thn Syrian bordnr dospitl~ calls by Sunni Arab leaders to halt surh opnrations t.o cmcouragc~ a big turnout in rwxt month's Plnct.ion. The U.S. command said about 50 insurgnnts worn killed. 
Two U.S. Marinns worn killed and at least snwm wnro wounded in tho lighting in tho bor­dnr town of Ohnidi, according to a Now York Tinws n~portnr is nmbc~ddnd with tho Marines. i\ Marino spoknsman told Tho Associated l'n~ss that. hn c~annot roport casualties until 24 hours aftnr tlwy occur. 
In Baghdad. a car bomb nxplodnd near tho main gatn to tlw lwavily guardml Green Zone, killing two South i\frkans and wounding throe otlwr pnopln. Thn victims worknd for State Dnpartnwnt snrurity c~ontractor DynCorp Intnrnational. tlw U.S. Embassy said. 
Suicide bombers hit Kabul, killing 2 
KABUl., Afghanistan -Suic:ide bombers ramnwd cars fillnd with nxplosivns into NATO pc~acnknnpnrs in two attacks in tho i\tghan eapi­tal Monday, killing a Gorman soldinr and an i\l'gharf child and wounding at. lnast a dozon othnr pnopln -thn first 1111~jor assault on for­nign troops in Kabul in morn than a ynar. 
Troops thwartnd a suspnetnd third bombing by shooting dPad thrnn pnopln in a ear radng toward thn src•nn of thn blasts. Sueh snnmingly eoordinatml attarks arc~ unprncndentod in i\!'ghanistan. and rPinl(Jrcnd ((mrs that Taliban insurgnnLo.; arn c·.opying tactic~s usnd in Iraq. 
Tlw bombings orc:um•d within 1)0 minutns ol' mu~h otlwr on a 500-yard strntch ol' road nnar tlw hnadquartnrs of i\fghan-U.N. nlnction organizc~rs. In nach easn, the attackers ramnwd t.IH'ir rars into NATO vnhidns. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Documents reveal Alito's abortion view 
Wi\SIIINGI'ON -Twenty ynars ago, Samunl /\lito was just trying to catch tim eye of Heagan adrn111istration ollidals looking to till a political slot in thP .lustiw I>npartmont. 
But thn young conscwvativn's boast. about bning "partir.ularly proud" ol' his work helping to argue that "t.lw Constitution dons not protnct. a right to an abortion" may now make it. morn dillicult liw him in his qunst to join tho Supromo Court. 
"This is tlw strongnst statement wo've seen l'rom a nominnn on this vnry controvnrsial suqjnet ((JI' a long timn," said Scm. Charlns Schumer, D­N.Y., a mnmhnr ol' tho Senato .Judiciary Conunittc~o that will hold /\lito's conlirmation hParing. 
9/11 commision gives mixed review 
WA"iiiiNGI'ON -Hnviowing action on recom­numdations it rnadn last ynar, tho Snpt. 11 eom­mission on Monday critidznd tho Bush adminis­tration ((Jr not adopting standards lbr trnatmont ol' c~apturnd tnrror suspnds. 
Thn administration WlL'i givnn a mixed review in a n~port on the c~ommission's key rncommenda­tions that wnrn dnsignnd to help tim Unitnd Statns bntt.nr prnparn ((Jr and rospond to a terror attack. 
Thnrn WlL'i high praiso lbr U.S. att.ompLo.; to inte­gratn thn Arab <Uld Muslim wodd into the global trading systmn and in lighting terrorism linanc­ing. 
But fomwr commission chairman Thomas Knan, former vien chairman l.ne Hamilton and Llw night othnr nunnbnrs who formnd the 9-11 Public I >isdosuw Pn\jnd liJUnd much to criticize. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Man accused of killing girl's parents 
BI\I.LEVILLI\, Ind.-i\ Ponnsylvania tnnnagnr suspnctml of killing his girlfriend's parents in an argument over hor curfew was c~aptured in Indiana on Monday with the girl in his car al'tnr a police chase that ended in a crash. The 14-ycJar-old girl was not hurt, authorities said. 
David Ludwig, 18, and Kara Beth Borden were taknn into custody around midday after he crashed his parents' car head-on into a troe in Belloville, some 600 miles from where the killings took place. 
Bush responds to Iraq warcritics 
Facing contentious political climate and dropping polls, president speaks out 
Associated Press 
ELMENDOHF i\IH FOHCE 
BASE. /\Iaska -President 
Bush hurled new arguments 
against Iraq war critics on 
Monday as he headed for 
Asia, accusing some 
Democrats of "sonding 
mixed signals to our troops 
and the enemy." . 
"That is irrcsponsiblo," 
Bush said. Bush addressed 
U.S. forces and their fami­lies during a rel'ueling stop in Alaska. It was the initial leg of an night-day journey to .I a pan. South KonHl, China and Mongolia. Bush has hopes of improving his image on the world stage. 
"Heasonable people can disagren about the conduct of the war. but it is irrespon­sible for Demoerats to now daim that we misled thnm and the Ameri<~an people," Bush said. "Only one person manipulated evidence and mislml the world -and that person was Saddam Ilussnin." 
Bush, who wore a rtight jackflt. was chnered and applauded by the receptive audience. 
The president sought to defnnd himself against criti­cism by Democrats that he manipulated intellignnce and misled the American people about Iraq's alleged weapons of mass destruc­tion as hn sought grounds to go to war against Saddam's regime in 2003. 
Mnanwhile, National Security Adviser Stephen !Iadley told rnporters aboard the prnsidential air­craft that two agenda items on Bush's Asia trip were the huge Chinesn trado surplus with thn United States and a U.S.-Japanese dispute over 
U.S. beef imports. 
Nnithor dispute was expected to bn resolved on the prnsidnnt's trip, !Iadley said. 
"I don't think you're going to see headline-breakers" from the presidnnt's trip, Hadley said. 
On Sunday, Iladley acknowledged "we were wrong" about Iraq's 


weapons of mass destruc­tion, but he insisted in a CNN interview that the pres­ident did not manipulate intelligence or mislead the American peopln. 
Iraq and other problems 
from the bungled response to Hurricane Katrina to the indictment of a senior White I louse ollidal in the CIA leak investigation -have taken a heavy toll on the president's standing. Nearing the end of his fifth year in ollien, Bush has the lowest approval rating of his presidency and a majority of i\rnericans say Bush is not honost and they disapprove of his handling of foreign policy and the war on ter­rorism. 
In his Alaska remarks, 
Bush noted that some C11ect­ed Dnmoerats in Congress "have opposed this war all along." 
"I disagrne with them. but I respect their willingness to take a consistent stand," lw said. "Ynt some Democrats who voted to authorize the use of forcn are now rnwrit­ing the past. They arn play­ing politics with this issun and sending mixed signals to our troops and the enemy." 
In the Senatn, 29 Democrats voted with 48 Hnpublicans for the war authorization measure in late 2002, including 2004 Democratic presidential nominee Sen. John Kerry ol' Massachusetts, and his run­ning mate, John Edwards of North Carolina. Both have meontly bonn harshly criti­cal ol' Bush's eondud ol' tlw war and its al'tnrmath. 
On Capitol llill. top Domoc~rats stood their ground in claiming Bush misled Congrnss and tlw 
·country. "Tho war in Iraq was and rnmains mw of' thn grnat ads ol' mislnading and docoption in i\moriean his­tory," Kerry told a nows con­l'nreneo. 
DmnocTats oll'ernd a pro­posal urging tlw presidnnt to outline an ostimatn for a phasod withdrawal of U.S. troops. Tho Senatn was expeeted to voto on it on Tuesday. as well as on a rival GOP Iraq policy pro­posal t.hat dons not include a withdrawal provision. 
JORDAN 

U.S. arrests, releases Iraqi suspect 
Associated Press 
AMMAN. Jordan -The U.S. mili­tary announced Monday it arrested and later released an Iraqi whose name matches that of one of the Amman hotel suicide bombers, say­ing there was no "compelling evi­dence" that he posed a security threat. 
The American military command could not confirm if the man it arrested last year, identified as Safaa Mohammed Ali, was among the three al-Qaida in Iraq militants who carried out the attacks 

Wednesday on the Hadisson SAS. Grand Ilyatt and Days Inn hotels. The blasts killed 57 other people. 
The statement came as Jordanians -from the groom whose bombed wedding turned into a nightmare to local shopkeepers ­voiced anger and joy at the capture and riveting televised confession of a would-be fourth Iraqi bomber, wife of one of the suicide attackers. 
Many even doubted Sajida Mubarak Atrous al-Hishawi, 35, had anything to do with bombing the Radisson wedding party, saying her version of events contradicted accounts given by Jordanian 
au th oritios. 
Secretary of State Condolenzza Hice met Jordan's King Abdullah to offer condolenees over the attacks, whieh killed throc~ Americans. 
"Thnrn is no justil'ieation l'or the wanton killing of innocents, and we stand in solidarity with the people ol' Jordan, the people around tho world who havo sulTerod similar tragedies, and we will stand linn." Hice said during a tour of tho Hadisson. 
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas also visited the Hadisson, where he said tho suicide bombers "deserve all of God's wrath." 
~-----------­

--------------------------------. page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 15, 2005 
NDSP 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) Rex Rakow reported a comparable number of citations and arrests. 
Rakow said 26 citations and 17 no-trespass notices were issued before and during the game. Four custodial arrests were made for public intoxication, minor con­suming and possession of false identification. Arrested individuals received the "usual" treatment, according to Rakow, and were taken to St. Joseph County Jail. 
Police issued 26 citations and made 5 arrests at the Tennessee game. 
Officers patrolling tailgates were both uniformed and in plain clothes and used breathalyzers to "assess the level of intoxication," Rakow said. 
He said NDSP, St. Joseph County Police, South Bend Police and Indiana State Excise Police offi­cers made rounds at pre-game gatherings in parking lots. 
Director of Stadium Personnel Cappy Gagnon said 15 students were removed from the game for alcohol-related reasons -the majority of the ejections were for being "highly intoxicated." 
"This is very unfortunate for a game beginning at 1 p.m.," he said. 
Gagnon said students ejected from the stadium lose their ticket booklets and are subsequently sent to the Office of Residence Life and Housing. 
Following the trend of recent games, Gagnon said there were "zero" marshmallow throwing incidents Saturday. 
Gagnon said he has been unable to figure out exactly why marsh­mallow throwing has dwindled this season in comparison with past years, but cited warmer weather -meaning fewer coats and thus fewer hiding places ­and engaging band halftime shows. 
"The team is playing exciting football and winning, and certain­ly the prospect of losing your tick­et booklets can't be appealing," he said. "Whatever the reason, I am pleased that ushers and students do not have to be in an adversari­al position over this." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 
Henneberg acknowledged reporting may be slightly dif­

News 
ferent today than it was years ago.
continued from page 1 

"It's a scary time for instead who they are. Most reporters with ad revenue [politicians] are hardworking and reader confidence and truly believe in what down," she said. they are However, doing," she Henneberg said. "[Political remains devoted profiling] is 'There will to journalism more compli­always be a need despite studies cated than peo­saying only 44
for people who 
ple realize. percent of readers 
can write. '' 
Sometimes I believe what they agree with the read in newspa­political Melinda Henneberg pers is accurate. stances of Newsweek journalist ''I'm not worried 
politicians but think they are a misery, and other times I disagree with them but find the person to be a delight." 
Henneberg said successful journalists have a broad range of knowledge about a variety of subjects. 
"Learn all you can about government, history and lit­erature," she said. "The actual mechanics of journal­ism will take care of them­selves." 
how things will 
shake out because 
people will always be interested in what is going on in the world. There will always be a need for people who can write." 
Henneberg has traveled the world during her work as a journalist -covering such stories as the election of Pope Benedict XVI in the spring of 2005 -and said being a female made no dif­ference in her personal suc­cess. 
"It's a very competitive business, but I have never been challenged or rewarded 
solely  because I am  a  
woman," she said.  
After  her  speech,  

Henneberg fielded questions from the audience and pro­vided tips for success in the industry. 
"Don't make friends with your sources," she said. "Every reporter needs an editor. Internships are very important. Don't be upset when rejected from jobs, keep trying because persist­ence will show you are seri­ous. It's been a great ride, and I would do it again in a minute." 
Henneberg was an American Studies major at Notre Dame and a member of ROTC. She interned for the European Commission in Belgium and has worked for such publications as the Dallas News, New York Times, New York Times Magazine, Toronto Star and Kenyon Standard. 
Contact Katie Linhares at klinhare@nd.edu 

sizes. Patrick Kane said. "And in Also, despite the switch to DARTing doesn't matter too Some students, however, have classes where it looks like it five digit course numbers, much," Block, said. "It only

Seniors 
found ways to work around might be full before I fourth-year took two seconds to register for such restrictions. By having get my chance to architecture my other classes."
continued from page 1 "Everything is 
friends who have earlier regis­DART, I am utilizing major Jenn Block did note one difficulty,
going incredibly 
Students have complained tration times register for class­friends who are only Block said regis­however, with regard to the about the differences in the es that are fill!ng up quickly, taking twelve credits smoothly. " tration was not new format of InsideND. registration format between students with later registration and are able to add difficult. "The only part that was InsideND and the old IrishLink. times can essentially reserve a classes before I am." Doug McKenna "I couldn't annoying was adjusting to the 
Although only seniors are spot in a class. DART into my new format because it keeps
"It's really just a Assistant Registrar 
currently eligible to register, "I am monitoring the number strategy to get the architecture changing," she said. some students still face prob­of seats left in classes I want classes and schedule classes yet, but lems with class availability throughout the day," senior you want," he said. "A lot of those don't really matter Contact Laura Baumgartner at because of limitations in class marketing management major students do this." because they're set already, so lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Sponsored by: Center for Social Concerns • Campus Ministry • International StudentServices and Activities • Indian StudentAssociation • Pakistani StudentAssociation • Student Govemment • Center for Asian Studies  5Q¥ ~-~ 1\' t ~-~tn ~,­NOTRE DAME  

r------------------------------------------------------------~-­
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Tuesday, November 15, 2005 
page 7 

Dow 

10,684.68 -1.36

Jones , 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volun 1,186 128 -~ I ,48 I ,444,870 

AMEX 1.699.88 +3.30 NASDAQ 2,198.78 -3.69 NYSE. 7,542.94 -18.46 S&PSOO I ,232.60 -2.12 NIKK£1(Tokyo) 14,116.04 -39.02 FTSE IOO(london) 5,470.00 +4.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.18  
NASDAQ II 0 TR (QQQQ)  -0.02  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -1.03  
SIRIUS SATELLITE R(SIRI)  +0.71  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +0.92  

Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.05 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.88 5-YEARNOTE + 1.27 3-MONTH BILL +0.26 
CAmmodlties 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
+0.05 27.33 -0.0 I 40.70 -0.18 17.29 +0.05 7.05 +0.23 25.36 
+0.50 47.96 +0.40 46.04 +0.57 45.41 +0.1 0 38.82 
+0.12 57.65 -0.30 469.10 -1.53 86.73 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
118.7250 

EURO 
0.8551 

POUND 
0.5755 

CANADIAN$ 
1.1932 

IN BRIEF 
Stocks end mixed on inflation concerns 
NEW YOHK -Wall Strnet wandered through a listless snssion Monday. finishing little changed as invnstors east aside upbeat earnings at Wal­Mart Stores Inc. and Lowe's Cos. ahead of criti­eal inllation and spending data later this week. 
Strong results from Wal-Mart and Lowe's eame as a sign that consumers are still spending despite the rocent spike in energy costs, bright­ening the holiday sales outlook. A pair of multi­billion-dollar acquisitions also helped the mar­ket's mood: Georgia-Pacific Corp. is being taken private and Host Marriott Corp. is buying 38 upscale hotels. 
But with key government data on inflation and rntail sales due this week, investors are waiting for indications of whether higher costs are driv­ing up prices on consumer goods, said John Forelli, portfolio manager at Independence Investments LLC. 
"Now that gas prices have come down, there's more confidence that inflation will be kept at bay," Fornlli said. "But I'm not sure the market is really going to believe that until the [Federal Heservel says so." 
Dollar rises against euro, hitting a high 
NEW YOHK -Thn dollar rose against major rival eurrencies Monday, hitting a fresh 27-month high again-;t the yen <md a two-year high against the euro. 
Thn euro leU amid commentary from European Central B1mk official'!, who spoke Monday at a meet­ing of centra.l bankers in Mexico City about tho need fiw Eumperu1 nation<> to work more closely with the enntra.l bm1k to keep inflation <md prices in check. 
·n~n dollar n~ached as high as 118.92 yen Monday, according to EBS, il'> highest level since August 2003. Tlw euro dropped as low as $1.1660 Monday, il'> low­est level sinee November 2003. 
In late New York trading, the euro traded at $1.1694, down from $1.1706 late Friday, according to EBS. The dollar traded at 118.76 yen, up from 117.96; 1.3167 Swiss francs, up from 1.3132; and 1.1930 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1896 late Friday. The British pound was lownr at $1.7380 from $1.7397. 
ECB gov1~rning council member and Deutsche Bundesbank Prnsident Axnl Weber said he was "alarmed about the fiseal framework" of the l~uropea.n Union, and eoncnmed about the eontain­mnnt of budget dofidl'>, a policy he considers impor­tlmt in helping the central b<mk keep inflation under control. 

Wal-Mart expects holiday gains 
Despite modest sales recently, retailer looks toward a healthy shopping season 
Associated Press 
LITTLE BOCK, Ark. -Tlw world's largest retailer, W!LI-Mart Storns Inc., post­ed a modest :~.8 percent in profit growth on Monday, but said it expects oleetron­ics and other general mor­ehandise to propel it to a hoalthy holiday soason, though spending may slacken whon the bills como due early next year. 
Income rose to $2.4 bil­lion, or 57 cents per share, for tho quarter ended Oct. 31 from $2.:~ billion, or 54 emits JWr share, a year ago. Earnings in the latest quar­ter ineludnd three items, including hurricane related eosts, which n~dueed rnsults by $80 million. or 2 cents per sharo. 
Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial had l'orncast 57 cents per share. 
Hevenues were $7f>.35 billion with salos or $75.4 billion, an increase of 10.1 pnreent. over $68.5 billion in sales for the third quar­ter of fiscal 2005. Sales at storos opened at loast a year, known as same-store sal1~s. rose a modest 3.8 percent. Same-store sales are considered an impor­tant measure of a retailer's health because they don't inflate overall growth from new store openings. 
Wal-Mart shares rose 30 cents to close at $49.30 Monday on the New York Stock Exchange, where they have traded in a 52­week range of $42.31 to $57.89. 
In a conference call with investors, Wal-Mart Chief Executive Lee Scott didn't address criticism the com­pany has come under for labor and other practices except to note Wal-Mart's critics had some praise for the retailer's response to Hurricane Katrina. 
Scott said Wal-Mart sus­tained sales despite the hurricanes, gasoline prices that skyrocketed in the quarter and higher home heating bills. The hurri­canes -Katrina, Rita and Wilma -closed hundreds 


-~.... ---------.,..,. 

.7\.\;:~\~-~~-... 
A worker pushes carts through a Wai-Mart parking lot In Notwalk, Calif. on Sunday. Wai-Mart Stores Inc. posted a 3.8 pereent In profit~ on Monday, but expects better for the holidays. 
of Wal-Mart stores, at least temporarily, but Wal-Mart's third-quarter numbers held up. 
Scott called the quarter a "pretty good performance in a difficult environment." 
"I believe we will have a good holiday season," Scott said. lie noted that the hur­ricanes would in the longer term improve employment and the economy but said January and February could be difficult months when holiday bills come due and higher heating oil and natural gas prices have a greater impact. 
Analyst Dan Hess, presi­dent and chief executive of Merchant Forecast, a New York-based independent research company, agreed that Wai-Mart should do well for the holiday. 
"With Wal-Mart, it's not just about the numbers and the forecast. All types of social issues play a role in the public perception of Wal-Mart," Hess said. 
So far, the public is voting with its feet and is continu­ing to shop at Wal-Mart stores, he said. 
"The issues of con­science, right now at least, appear to be affecting the stock price more than affecting sales," Hess said. "At the end of the day, Wal­Mart is taking market share away from other retailers." 
"I think Wal-Mart is gain­ing back some momentum in general merchandise," lless said. "Their push toward electronics is going to be successful." 
After a slow start to the Christmas season last year, Wal-Mart has promisP.d to be more aggressive with discounts and its push to get shoppers to buy early for the holiday 2005 sea­son. The company launched its holiday adver­tising campaign on Nov. 1, a few weeks earlier than last year. 
Wal-Mart forecast fourth­quarter earnings of 82 cents to 86 cents por share, $2.64 to $2.68 for the year. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial forecast quarterly ineome of 84 cents per share and $2.64 per share for the year. 

Knight Ridder Inc. considers selling 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Newspaper publisher Knight Ridder Inc., under pressure from its largest shareholders, said Monday it would consider selling the company and other steps to boost shareholder value. 
The San Jose, Calif.-based publisher of The Miami Herald, the San Jose Mercury News and 30 other newspa­pers said it would work with longtime financial adviser Goldman Sachs & Co. to explore a possible sale and other options. 
Knight !Udder also said it had changed its bylaws to allow sharehold­ers to submit proposals at its annual meeting, currently scheduled for next April, and also to nominate directors. 

II) a prepared statement, Knight Ridder said there was no assurance that there would be a transaction. The company also said it didn't intend to provide any updates on the process "unless and until" its board has approved a specific transaction. A company spokeswoman declined to comment beyond the written state­ment. 
Last week Knight Ridder's largest shareholder, Private Capital Management LP of Naples, Fla., threatened to nominate its own slate of directors at the newspaper publish­er's next annual meeting after receiv­ing only a "limited response" to the "serious concerns" that it and other 
shareholders had raised about the company. 
Private Capital Management owns 19 percent of Knight Hidder and has significant stakes in other publicly held newspaper publishers. PCM first agitated for a sale of Knight Hidder in early November, and its call was soon seconded by Knight fOdder's No. 3 shareholder Harris Associat(~s Ll', a Chicago-based money manager. llarris has an 8.2 percent stake in Knight Hidder. 
A third shareholder, Southeastern Asset Management Inc., which holds 
8.9 percent of Knight Hidder, also has said it would take a more aetive role in considering future options for the company. 
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, November 15, 2005 
Post-partutn women at risk for blood clots 
Experts encourage exercise to prevent clotting 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -New moms should get up and start walking as soon as possible to prevent the risk of a potentially fatal blood dot, doctors advise. 
Although the chances of such dots are rare, they are four times greater for pregnant women and new mothers, a large 30-year study found, confirming what doctors have long observed. 
Mayo Clinic researchers looked at medical records from 1966 to 1995 of 50,000 pregnant women who lived in Olmsted County, Minn., where data has long been gathered for a long-term health surveillance project. 
The researchers focused on blood clots in leg veins (known as deep vein thrombosis) and clots that broke loose and lodged in the lungs (known as pulmonary embolism). 
The incidences of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism were small -only 105 cases occurred over the 30-year period -but the problem is of concern because it is frequently fatal when it does happen. 
In roughly one-fourth of pul­monary embolism cases in gener­al, the first and only symptom is sudden death, said Dr. John A. Heit, lead author of the study appearing in Tuesday's Annals of Internal Medicine. 
When the researchers com­pared similar age groups, they found the pregnant women and those who had given birth within the past three months were four times more likely to have these serious blood clot problems than non-pregnant women. 
Nearly all of the women in the study wen~ white, so researchers said their findings might not apply to women of other races. 
In an editorial accompanying the study, Dr. Richard V. Lee of the State University of New York at Buffalo said that within the past 20 to 30 years pulmonary embolism has overtaken all other causes of maternal mortality. 
An American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists committee is drawing up guide­lines on the subject, said Dr. Gary Hankins, an obstetrician and the committee's chair. 
The top tip for all new moms: Get out of bed and start walking as soon as possible. For women with risk factors -such as obesi­ty, a history of clots, and pro­longed bed rest during pregnan­cy -doctors may consider using leg compression devices in the hospital to get the blood moving. 
But blood thinners don't lead the list of possible solutions because of potential complica­tions, like excessive bleeding. 
"Anticoagulants should be reserved for a very small group, those only with a significant risk," Hankins said. "We don't want to recommend a strategy that could do more harm than good." 
Heit said aspirin has been shown to be effective for prevent­ing stroke and heart attack but it appears not to help prevent blood clots in leg veins. 


Georgia vvo:rnan, 37, 
marries teenage boy 
Lisa Clark faces child molestation charges 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Ga.-A 37­year-old woman has been charged with child molestation for allegedly having a sexual relationship with a 15-year-old boy whom she married last week.. 
The woman also is allegedly pregnant with the boy's child, though paternity hasn't yet been determined, his grand­mother and guardian told The Associated Press on Monday. 
"You hear about stuff like this from the TV, but it's not reality," Judy Ann Hayles said. "But [this] happened. And this won't be over because a baby is on the way." 
Lisa Lynnette Clark was arrested Wednesday and remained in custody Monday. A preliminary hearing is set for Nov. 30. 
District Attorney Lee Darragh said Georgia law on child molestation says that a person under 16 legally cannot consent to a sexual act. Darragh would not comment further on the case. 
Hayles said she knew her grandson was spending a lot of time with his best friend's mother, but she had no real objections until she found love letters and lurid photos from Clark. 
"I love you so much. I'm yours forever," were among the lines in one of six letters from Clark that Hayles said she found among her grand­son's possessions. 
Hayles' grandson had been spending every weekend with Clark's son. In July, the two boys were charged with bur­glarizing a neighbor's home and sent to a youth detention center for 45 days. 
Hayles said her grandson during that stay received the letters from Clark, along with seductive photos of her posing on top of a mantle and in a bikini. 
Hayles filed a police report on Oct. 6 when she learned from a friend that Clark was pregnant. About a month later, before authorities made their move, the two were married. 
In Georgia, a person must be 18 to marry without parental consent or 16 to marry with parental consent. But if the couple has a child or the woman can show she is preg­nant, the age requirement doesn't apply. 
Hayles said she hopes to get an annulment or a divorce for her grandson. 



Drug :might treat heart failure 
Medication shows promise for stabilizing heart attack victims 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -An experimental 
drug gave encouraging signs of 
being able to stabilize people 
with severe heart failure who 
come into emergency rooms 
gasping for breath, doctors 
reported Monday. 
However, the novel drug from 
Abbott Laboratories, levosi­
mendan, didn't produce the 
long-term benefits doctors had 
hoped to see for a problem that 
every year sends more than 1 
million Americans to the hospi­
tal. Results of the study were 
reported at an American Heart 
Association meeting. 
Heart failure occurs when 
weak hearts can't pump force­
fully enough and fluid backs up 
into the lungs. 
"They're all terribly sick. 
They come into the hospital 
severely short of breath, sweat­
ing, with varying blood pres­
sures," said the chief 
researcher, Dr. Milton Packer of 
the University of Texas 
Southwestern Medical Center 
in Dallas. 
The usual treatment is intra­
venous drugs to help them shed 
water, but that only works 
about half the time. 
Levosimendan works in a novel 
way to improve how strongly 
the heart contracts. 
Doctors gave 300 emergency 
room patients in the United 
States, Israel and Australia the 
usual treatment and gave 
another 300 a one-day infusion 
of the experimental drug. 
They measured improvement 
according to a composite scale 
of things like worsening short­
ness of breath, kidney function, and lung or circulatory prob­lems. 

Four days later, 26 percent of patients given usual care need­ed additional treatment because symptoms had wors­ened, but only 15 percent who received levosimendan did. 
The chances of improving were 33 percent higher and the chances of worsening were 30 percent lower in those on the experimental drug. 
However, six months later, those who got levosimendan were no better off than those given traditional drugs. In fact, more had died (49 versus 40) or developed heart rhythm problems, though the differ­ence between the groups was considered small enough that it might have occurred by chance. 
'There were some worrisome trends," said Dr. Timothy Gardner, a cardiologist at the Center for Heart and Vascular Health at Christiana Care Health Services in Wilmington, Del., who has no ties to the study or the drug's maker. 
Still, he said the drug appeared to have unique bene­fits to bail out very sick patients over existing drugs. 
Another study to be present­ed Wednesday will reveal whether the drug lowered death rates in very sick heart failure patients on continuous intravenous medications at home. 
Monday's study was paid for by Abbott and Orion Pharma, a Finland-based firm that mar­kets the drug in Europe as Simdax. Abbott is seeking approval in the United States. 

2005-2006 Law&... 

Research on other heart dis­ease treatments reported at the conference produced mixed results, including the largest test of whether improving cho­lesterol might help prevent car­diovascular problems in diabet­ics. 
One study examined fenofi­brate, a drug that lowers fats in the blood called triglycerides while raising levels of HDL or "good cholesterol" in people with Type 2 diabetes, the most common form. These people have three to four times the risk of heart disease as non­diabetics. 
The 10,000 participants were not taking any cholesterol med­icine when the study began; four out of five had no previous cardiovascular problems. 
Roughly five years later, the combined rates of fatal heart problems and non-fatal heart attacks were roughly the same for those on the drug and those given dummy pills. 
"There were many positive findings," including less nerve damage that leads to loss of vision, amputations and kidney damage, said lead researcher Dr. Anthony Keech of the University of Sydney in Australia. 
"I don't think these results would support choosing fenofi­brate over a statio," a widely used type of cholesterol-lower­ing medication, but lots of rea­son to add it, he said. 
However, government regula­tors have warned of problems, including a higher risk of a rare muscle problem, when statins are combined with fibrate drugs. 
an interdisciplinary colloquium series presents 

Biometrics and Privacy 
Presenter: Kevin Bowyer Department of Computer Science & Engineering 

Commentator: Jimmy Gurule The Law School 
Tuesday, November 15, 2005 The Observer + NEWS FRANCE 



Chirae calls for help to heal 
In his first address since rioting began, president calls for diversity 
Associated Press 
PAlUS -President Jacques Chinu: said Monday that unrest in tho poor neighborhoods of Franco is tho sign of. a "proli1und malaise" thn entire nation must work to lwal through job-training and mnploynwnt opportunities for troublml youths. 
In his first address to tho nation since thn rioting erupted, tho prnsident said companies, unions and the nwdia must help bring divorsity to French soeiety and eornbat what he called the poison of discrimination. 
French law must be obeyed, but values and hope also must be kindled in youths living in the poor, largely immigrant suburbs ringing Frnnch eitins, he said. 
"Tiwsn nvnnl'i testify to a pro­found malaise ... This is a crisis of dirnction, a 1:risis of reference points, it is a crisis of identity," he said. "We will mspond by being linn, bning just and being faithful to thn values of France." 
Chinu: spoke after the Cabinet approvml a measure to extend a state of mnnrgency from 12 days 
t.o thrm1 months. The parliament was to dobato the bill Tuesday. Thoro will be a possibility of end­ing the measure before the thrm~-month term expires. 
Chirae, who turns 73 later this month, was hospitalized in September for a blood vessel problem that many thought was a stroke. llowever, he showed no signs of an ailment Monday. Unusually, he wore spectacles, as he had done in his youth. 
lie announced the creation of a corps of volunteers to offer train­ing for 50,000 youths by 2007, and told companies and unions they must encourage diversity and support employment for youths from tough neighbor­hoods. 
French media, whieh are not very ethnically diverse, must "bett~~r reflect the reality of France today," Chirac said. 
"We will not build anything enduring without fighting this poison for society which is dis­ITimination." 
Speaking with a French tricolor and Ell flag behind him, Chirac said that discrimination -seen as a factor behind the violence ­should be combatted. But he appeared to rule out li.S.-style allirmative action. 
"There is no question of enter­ing into the logic of quotas," the French leader said. And he defended the French model of integration whieh seeks to meld people of all origins into a single mold -and which many officials and experts now say has failed. 
"At stake is respect for the law but also the success of our policy of integration," Chirae said. 
The unrest has abated over the past week. But the decision to extend the state of emergency until mid-February made dear authorities feared the anger seething below the relative calm eould resurface. 
First put in place last Wednesday, the state of emer­gency opens the way for recourse to extraordinary action by regional authorities, such as call­ing curfews or conducting day­and-night searches of homes. About 40 French towns, includ­ing France's third-largest city, Lyon, have used the measure so far, imposing curfews on minors. 
The policy of firmness also 

Study Abroad tl1is Summer through Notre Dame Programs in: 
Quito, Ecuador-NEW!! Paris, France-NEW!! Dublin, Ireland Milan, Italy-NEW!! Puebla, Mexico Toledo, Spain Kampala, Uganda-NEW!! 
Come to an inf<xmation session t<' learn more... 
Tuesday, November 15, 2005 5:00pm 23 I Hayes Healy 

Application deadline is March I. 2006 
includes deporting foreigners implicated in violence. 
The magnitude of the unrest, marked by nightly the burning of vehicles, schools and wamhouses around the country, has stunned France. The country's leadership and many citizens learned the depth of discontent in France's suburban housing projects, largely home to immigrants and their French-born children disil­lusioned by discrimination and joblessness. 
The civil unrest is the worst since the student-worker revolts of May 1968 and the worst ever in the suburbs. 
Chirac for a second time point­ed a linger at parents, whom om­dais have blamed for failing to stop teenage youths from the destructive rampages. 
"Parental authority is vital. Families must assume all of their responsibilities. Those that refuse should be punished as the law allows." 
While condemning the vio­lence, Chirac also reached out to disgruntled suburban youths. 
"I want to say to the children of difficult neighborhoods, whatever their origins, that they are all the daughters and sons of the Hepublic," he said. 
The unrest has provided a per­fect forum for the far-right, which blames French ills on immigration. At a rally Monday that drew about 300 supporters, National Front leader Jean-Marie Le Pen, who faced off Chirac in 2002, castigated the immigration policy. 
"We let in 10 million foreigners over 30 years -it's wild insanity. No country can handle that inva­sion," Le Pen said. 
page 9 
UNITED NATIONS 

U.N. seeks out aid for humanitarian crises 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS Countries rich and poor on Monday called for a $500 mil­lion U.N. fund to meet human­itarian emergencies artnr a year of devastating disasters from the Indian Ocean tsuna­mi and earthquakes in Asia and hurricanes in tho Americas to drought in Afriea. 
General Assembly Prosidnnt 
Jan Eliasson said the current $50 million revolving fund was insuf'f1­eient, and the increase would help the United Nations respond quickly to sudden and underfunded crises. 
"The complex­ity of today's crises and the growing magni­tude of disasters require that humanitarian 

called for stnmgtlwning "the rapid response eapadties for immediate humanitarian relief' and appointmnnt of a speeial envoy to promote reconstruction. The tsunami resolution urged support for mndium-and long-term reha­bilitation. 
Jamaica's U.N. Ambassador Stafford Neil, spnaking on behalf of a group that includes 132 mainly developing coun­
"More importantly, it is imperative that the U.N. should be provided with adequate financial resources. 
Munlr Akram Pakistan U.N. Ambassador 
tries and China, offered support for the increased fund and said "addressing the funding capad­ty of the U.N. system is one of the most criti­cal steps to achieving the objective of improving thn 
U.N. mnnrgeney r e s p o n s n capacity." 
Pakistan's 
assistance remains one of the highest priorities of the work of the United Nations," he told the opening of a daylong debate on improving U.N. humanitarian and disaster relief. 
As the U.N.'s 191 member nations were meeting, he said, the death toll in Pakistan from the Oct. 8 earthquake was still rising "and thousands of peo­ple are in danger of freezing to death as winter sets in." 
An especially destructive hurricane season has also left thousands homeless in the Caribbean, Central America and the United States, and nearly 35 million people in sub-Saharan Africa are hun­gry and need food as a result of "a lethal combination of conflict and drought," he said. 
The General Assembly adopted resolutions on the tsunami and quake without a vote. The quake resolution 

U.N. Ambass-ador Munir Akram said the South Asian earthquake showed that the U.N.'s disaster coordination machinery must be strength­ened, he said, but "more importantly, it is imperative that the U.N. should be pro­vided with adequate financial resources to respond quickly and .~ffectively to such disas­ters. 
South African diplomat Andries Oosthuizen said it was troubling that U.N. appeals to address crises in Africa received scant money, citing an appeal to help drought victims in Djibouti which received just 5 percent of the required LIS $7.5 mil­lion. The appeal to help drought victims in Malawi also receiving little funding and now the situation has gotten worse -which means more money will be needed, he said. 

Sollle Dakota citizens resent judges' rights 
Associated Press 
PIEHRE, S.D. -A move­ment is underway in South Dakota to turn the tables on members of the bench. 

Activists are trying to put a radical measure on next year's ballot that could make South Dakota the first state to let people who believe their rights have boon violated by judges put those judges on trial. Citizens eould seek dam­ages or criminal chargHs. 
The measure would over­turn more than a century or settled law in the United States by stripping judges of their absolute immunity from lawsuits over their judicial acts. 

"The currnnt system donsn't work because thnre is no ade­quate way to hold a given judge accountable for improp­er behavior or to prevent them from judicial miseon­duct if they choose to do so," said businessman William Stegmeier, a leader of the movem(mt. 
Legal experts warned that such a provision 1:ould dan­gerously undermino tho indl~­pendence of South Dakota's judiciary, plungo the court system into anarchy, and run afoul of the U.S. Constitution. 
And they noted thorn arn already remedies available to the public: Bad •·ulings 1:an bo overturned on appnal, and judges who break the ruins can bn punished by statn dis­dplinary boards and, in South Dakota and other statns, voted out or of'lkn. 
Marie Failingnr, a law pro­fessor at llamlinn Univnrsity in St. Paul, Minn., said judi­cial immunity is s1~en as a way to protect judges' inde­pnndencn so they dm:idn eases on the merits, not in rnsponso to pressurn from tho eommu­nity or individuals. 

THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, November 15, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

What will you do with that major? 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Choosing a major can be one of the es of grammar and precision are skills beginning of each MGM film states 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 

more daunting decisions facing a stu­that will prove useful in any field that when the lion roars. The liberal arts Claire Heininger 
dent early in his or her college career. one chooses to enter. have their own inherent value that is MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Often, one has taken enough classes to The Classics and the Program of worth studying on its own. As students Par Leonard Paula Garcia be interested in a variety of subjects, Liberal Studies both focus on studying contemplate the deep concepts and but not yet enough to great books that have proved to be of themes of the authors, they will ques­
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 

be sure as to what such lasting worth and beauty that they tion what it is to be human and why we 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 

course of study to have survived the test of time. The for­are. They will marvel at the beauty and 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 

pursue. It is only too mer is of a narrower scope and the lat­even tragedy of the human existence. common that in this ter of a broader scope, but both indeed They will savor the pleasures of poetry, 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 

confused period bear these grand flowerings of the at times delicate and at others exhila­
SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 

some of the lesser human intellect to a modern generation rating. One will be gripped by the stir­
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 

known, yet vitally of students. Western thought to this day ring narratives contained within the 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 

important, majors has been undeniably shaped and mold­works and try to make sense of the vast 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 

get forgotten. ed by the works that are studied in array of knowledge, experience, and ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri The Classics and these disciplines, and the study thereof truth drawn up within them. AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning the Program of Ronderos allows one to gain great insight into The authors of the great works CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara Liberal Studies (PLS) modern world in which we live and the poured their very souls into their works, 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff are two such disci­Liberated very thought patterns that continue to and have captured so much of life into plines that are cru­influence the fates of nations of the these works. Having gazed upon the cial to the overall world. PLS is particularly well suited for contents of these brilliant souls, one is
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 

(574) 
63I-7471 mission of a university. These majors this as it follows the course of western able to gain a new understanding of fAX frequently get lost in the fold as fresh­thought from its incipient stages until themselves and the greater world 

(574) 
631-6927 man decide what to study, and many do the twentieth century. around them. The student of the great 


ADVERTISING 

not even know that they exist. More The greatest benefit that the study of works is now better suited to make
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

than once has my response to the ques­the great works of history ofl'ers is the decisions and understand his or her
EDITOR IN CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 tion of what I study been accompanied development of the mind that accompa­own existence than he or she was MANAGING EDITOR by, "We have a Classics program?" or, nies this effort. One learns to think in a bnfore entering their course of study. 
(574) 631-454I obsme@nd.edu "Really? What will you do with that?" new, more critical manner as the mind This is in essence the true focus of the 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

The Classics are actually a rather adapts. The writing of many a paper University-to produce improved, 
(574) 631-4324 

practical major that teaches students gifts the student with an ability to thoughtful people; university should not
BUSINESS OFFICE 

many important skills that will aid them express and articulate themselves in an be merely a means to end. It should be
(574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK in whatever field they may pursue, elegant manner. The study of these more than a mere diversion that allows 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu whether it is further studies or employ­texts, which are often difficult and one to get a necessary degree so as not VIEWPOINT DESK ment. One of the most important skills require high levels of attention and con­to impede the march to wealth. The tar­
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 

one learns by studying The Classics is sideration, imparts the student with the get that the University aims to affect 
SPORTS DESK 

the analytical and attentive focus to the skills needed to analyze and decon­should be the soul, not the future wal­
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 

intricacies of language that comes from struct information so that it can be let. So if you should find yourself unde­
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu studying a classical language like Latin understood, processed and properly cided as what to study, consider the 
SAINT MARY'S DESK or Greek. These languages throw away dealt with. This is a skill that will allow study of the great works of humanity. smc.l@nd.edu word order and thus are grammar­one to succeed in a variety of situations 
PHOTO DESK 

intensive in a way that most modern and occupations, especially as the mod­Ian Ronderos is a senior majoring in 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 

western languages are not. The word ern world is increasingly information the Classics with a supplementary
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 

(574) 631-8839 endings tell the grammatical function of and communication based. major in Ancient Greek and Roman a word within a sentence, and thus the Despite the vast benefits conferred Civilizations. Having retired from the study of these languages requires a upon the student of the great works College Republicans and adopting inde­
THE near mathematical approach in its pre­that allow them to succeed in life, the pendent politics, he has entered the pri­
OBSERVER ONLINE 

cision and analytical nature. The study true gift that these disciplines deliver is vate life ofpeaceful contemplation. He
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

of these languages also vastly improves a growth and improvement ofthe soul. can be contacted at irondero@nd.edu POLICIES one's English, as they are forced to The liberal arts should primarily be The views expressed in this column The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper learn grammar more precisely in order studied for their own sake, ars gratia are those of the author and not neces­published in print and online by the students ofthe to translate into English. The approach-artis (art for the sake of art) as the sarily those ofThe Observer. University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrent, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
EDITORIAL CARTOON
adverrisemenrs based on content. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
Mary Kate Bobby Griffin 
Malone Dan Murphy 

Maddie Hanna Jason Galvin Are you planning to go to 

Sub 't ~ L••elter
......., ···.·' ,_ Q ·'"·""' ·... ,,, ..,.. '··· ... I
Maureen Mullen Scene 
< 

the last pep rally? 

"It is the mark ofan educated mind to be 
Viewpoint Mark 

able to entertain Cf th?ught without 
acceptmg a.

Becca Rosswurm Bemenderfer 
,to tbe Etbtor at 1
Graphics 
Aristotle 

Graham Ebetsch 
philosopher

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. ~ www.ndsmcobserver.com 1 
j I
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

L..____________________________________________________________________ --------­
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Tuesday, November 15, 2005 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Expressing ad111iration 

My name is Joe Horton, and I am a junior a't USC, columnist for The Daily Trojan, ardent Trojan football fan and son of Kurt Horton, member of the 1973 Sugar Bowl Irish National Championship team. 
I am writing to you today to express my admiration of your football-fandom. This year, ours was a game for the ages, and luckily for us, we eeked out the closest of monumental wins. We'll take it. 
But luckily for you, you have a terrific football team, and the meteoric ascent you have waited for is imminent (no Willingham phantom "return to glory" here). 
But most importantly, you have continued to uphold the qualities of character that have so defined your sehool. Charlie Weis is the ultimate sportsman, and I know I don't need to tell you that. 
The Southern California-Notre Dame rivalry has never been better. In a couple of years, when you are more than likely trouncing the Trojans, come to L.A. and catch the game. They'll be plenty of seats. 
Fight On. 
P.S. Can you sneak Texas onto your schedule by any chance? 
Joe Horton junior University ofSouthern California Nov. 14 

Cherishing the tnemories 
For ten years running, I have been fortunate enough to attend one Notre Dame home game each year; sometimes you lost, sometimes you won. Most importantly you always show courage and class. We (our group, "The CT Crazies") enjoyed breakfast in the Oak Room with the students. I am always amazed by the respect and conduct towards one another and the guests of Notre Dame. 
The grounds meticulously maintained and, again, respected by the students. The atmosphere was not that of a mere college football game but uplifting to the soul! The Notre Dame Band playing on the steps of Bond Hall, the Honor Guard inspection, pep rally -all of it such a wonderful and pleasant experi­
ence. Notre Dame lore is fabulous. Notre Dame students, faculty and athletes all are extraordinary! The playing of the Alma Mater at the recent Navy game being respected by Charlie Weis and all of Notre Dame shows the world just how much class Notre Dame has! I moved south and am no longer part of the CT group but have memories that will last a lifetime as I watch every Notre Dame game on TV! Thank you for the memories. 
Ron Blanchard Murrells Inlet, S.C. Nov. 14 


What should it be, a 1W' or a 1C'? 
Drum beat. The all too familiar tune, like the flare gun in a race, sends 8,000 sets of pointer-finger­thumb combinations flying sky bound from the blur of yellow and green of the student section. The "Ws" fan up and down pointing toward the field as the chant of "Weis" echoes throughout the stadium. Yet the same recognizable beat reverberating through­out the stands, empowered by the bowing "Ws" rings with nostalgia for some of the student body-mem­ories of performing the same action half-heartedly last season following one disappointing loss after the next, brings a heavy case of deja vu many want to forget. 
Yet did Coach Charlie Weis not recognize this the potential negative connotation of the "W" in the minds of the fans at the USC pep rally when he requested that a "C" replace the "W"? Yet as Pavlov would predict, the music begins, and the "Ws" con­tinue to be raised. We can chant Weis, but how many have fully erased the memory of discouragingly going through the forced motions and mumbling "Ty" or (screaming in desperation for a "tie") for half or some of our college careers? Theoretically, "W" may also stand for "win" but the motion has been hammered into Notre Dame psyches to relate to "Ty," and the "W" has come to subconsciously repre­sent "Willingham." A "W" for win isn't what the fans truly want anyway-as a student, I want to see a hard fought, well-played, passionate, spirited foot­ball game (which consequently often results in a winning score) which our Notre Dame football team, fans. band, Irish guard and cheerleaders have quin­tessentially embodied this season. A word to repre­sent Weis, team is not "win," but "character," which can be symbolized in the "C." Alright, getting a little abstract. but back to the point: 
Why have the cheerleaders not adapted to the "C"? The leprechaun? The band? A confused student sec­tion now consists of mostly "Ws" offset by some non­conforming "Cs." Most hail "Weis" while few chant "Chuck." I've also seen a creative combination of a right handed "C" and three fingers on the left hand forming a "W." 
During this football season, constant debate has ensued over the shirt color, and now differences exist in cheers. We all agree on one thing: the awe­someness of our 2005 Fighting Irish football team. They're a pretty big deal, no one is denying that ­and although cheers are not, for the sake of honor­ing a request made to the student body by Weis. and for unity in our last home game this weekend, may I ask that we. as a student body, confident of and ready to support a "win" with "character" this week­end, answer the question: Are we going to raise a "W" or "C"? 
Julie Putnam junior Pasquerilla West Nov. 14 

U-WIRE 
Facebook trend advocates violation of students' privacy 
I am a minority. Yes. I am a middle-class Caueasian female at Penn State, but sometimes 1 feel like part of a minority-I'm not on Facebook. 
I have come to expect a certain type of reaction when I reveal this deep. dark secret. People usually seem confused or surprised and ask "Why?" with such alarm and Erin horror that you would think I Mccracken kicked a puppy. They call me a freak and say I'm "out of the loop" Daily Collegian 
Penn State

-but I think I'm okay with that. 
University

I shrug off pleas and pressure to join Facebook because, really, I just don't understand why it's such a big deal. 
I've always been a late-bloomer when it comes to communication technology. When most of my peers started using AOL Instant Messenger in seventh grade, I didn't start using AIM until I came to col­lege, when the Ethernet hookups in the dorms made it possible to be online 24/7. 1 avoided send­ing e-mails until, lo and behold, Penn State gave me my own WebMail account. So, when Penn State's extensive Facebook community was created, I deeided that, like sororities and country music, it just wasn't for me. 
First of all, I have heard many first-hand accounts from Facebook users that it's addictive and distracting, whieh makes me wonder why it's so f"lippin' sweet. I know you ean keep in touch with peopln, look at funny pictures and join groups. But would joining the "I like peanut butter and jelly sandwiches" group really make me more popular'! I have IHwnr felt that my Facebook absence has had a negative affect on my social life. information. For example, Echelon, a huge intelli­
Facebook is funny and cute, sure, but I don't like gence and analysis network, uses computers to sort to be associated with anything labeled "cute." intercepts such as phone calls, faxes and e­Maybe not joining is my own way to avoid mails all over the world. It is important conforming to societal norms. Or maybe that people realize the stuff they write I'm full of [it.] online is not as safe as they may 
Honestly though, Facebook scares ~~~~~--~i!!!!;;;ie;;;~ think it is. Don't let this keep you 
me. 1 don't fancy the thought of a complete stranger reading details about my life and want­ing to "poke" me. Making my profile accessible only to my friends doesn't make me feel any more secure. There's always somQone who will find a way around the sys­tem. And I've heard people admit that they use Facebook to "stalk" people. This kind of creeps me out. 
I'm content in my anonymity. I value my privacy, and consid­ering that the police are now using Facebook to aid their investigation into those who rushed the field at the Ohio State game, I'm glad mine is not being vio­lated. Sure, it is pretty lame that law enforcement authorities are using Facebook, but there is a larger issue here. 


People should have been aware that the govern­ment and corporations have access to people's Internet activities before they posted incriminating 
up at night, it could be worse. At least we don't live in China where the government censors Internet access and content. 
To all you Facebook-ers at large, please don't think I'm hatin'. What you do in your spare time is up to you. 
(When I get a free minute or two, I watch re-runs of Laguna Beach, so who am I to judge?) Just know the 
risks involved when you join the ''I'm Under 21 and I Like to get Drunk" group. And if you ask me why I'm not on Facebook, don't be offended when 1 ask you why you are. 
This column originally appeared in the Nov. 14 issue of The Daily Collegian, the daily publication at Penn .S'tate University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of 
the author and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 



THE OBSERVER 




CENE 
By MARK BEMENDERFER Assistant Scene Editor 
The market is becoming increasingly saturated with sequels, a double-edged sword for the industry. 
Sequels allow developers to flesh out gaming worlds, giving increasing infor­mation to a ravenous gaming culture. The ever-increasing popularity of games such as "Resident Evil" and "Grand Theft Auto" are great examples of devel­opers building on an established fran­chise. 
To keep a franchise alive and growing, there must be signs of constant innova­tion, as well as remaining true to what made the originals appealing to garners. "Resident Evil 4" showcased this by making a huge departure from the established norm, doing away with the standard villain archetype and introduc­ing several plot twists to the overall con­tinuum. 
Developer Capcom also kept the fran­chise fresh by updating the gameplay mechanics. Unlike the previous versions, "Resident Evil 4" utilized a new camera and aiming system. The new camera made the action more personal, as the gamer was kept close to the hero at all times. 
"Grand Theft Auto" is another exam­ple on how to constantly keep a fran­chise appealing to garners. Developer Rockstar has established a library of recurring characters upon which to draw and focuses heavily upon charac­ter development. Since the entire "Grand Theft Auto" universe spans almost half a century, the gamer is given the chance to watch their favorite char­acters mature and develop. 
For example, the GTA universe was introduced to media-mogul Donald Love in "Grand Theft Auto 3." In the spin-off "Vice City," which was set roughly 20 years in the past, it was shown how Love learned how to become an entrepreneur. The player meets Love again in "Liberty City Stories." Taking place chronologi­cally between the other two, this is where the player helps Love implement what he learned in "Vice City." 
Because the stories are presented in a non-chronological manner, Rockstar can take a character and create a truly memorable video-game persona through the use of character history. But the pop­ularity of "Grand Theft Auto" is due to more than just sound development. 
The soundtrack is different for each game and can be a draw on its own. The series has featured artists ranging from Michael Jackson to Quiet Riot, each con­text sensitive in the time period the game is based. 
The basic gameplay is also updated from game to game, with the games controls and content being the biggest area for innovation. The latest console version of GTA "San Andreas" featured an aiming system from another Rockstar game, "Manhunt." Rockstar has also increased the variety of vehicles found within the game, including planes, motorcycles and helicopters as the series progressed. 
While having established sequels can be a great way to elaborate on an idea, it should be noted that they could also be detrimental. 
"Tomb Raider" is a great example of a franchise that was driven into the ground by lack of real innovation. The majority of the games released felt like clones of the previous ones, with heroine Lara Croft having to adventure though some lost tomb in hopes of raiding it. While it remained true to the title, this didn't translate to an ultimately fun experience for the gamer. 
"The Angel of Darkness" was sup­posed to be the re-imagining of the fran­chise. Featuring a darker, edgier Croft, the game was takeri out of the crypts and into many modern day settings. It even featured another playable charac­ter, one that was rumored to even start his own franchise. 
The game was marred by technical issues, however, and was inevitably too little and too late. Another "Tomb Raider" is in the works, but it is safe to say that interest has reached an all-time low for the series. 
Putting money into sequels also means that original, creative games tend to get overlooked. Their mega-budget cousins often overshadow games such as "Katamari Damaci and Call of the Cthulhu." This can discourage develop­ers from trying to break from the estab­lished norms and try something com­pletely innovative. 
With the X-Box 360, Plasystation 3 and Nintendo Revolution all looming on the horizon, developers-will bank more heavily on established brand names. It looks like sequels are going to play a major role in the industry for at least a few more years. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of gamespot.com Leon Kennedy wrestles with a new creature in Capcom's "Resident Evil 4." Capcom strives towards creating innovation within its franchises. 
By MARK BEMENDERFER Assistant Scene Editor 
Winter is coming, but for garners, things are just starting to heat up. Developers have released a deluge of games just in time for the shopping season, with another horde following them. 
The development for the current generation of consoles is winding down, meaning that this will probably be the last surge these consoles receive. But with so many options on the market, knowing which ones are truly worth the gaming dollar can become difficult 
Resident Evil 4 

A "Resident Evil" with no zombies? 
While that thought initially sent much of the gaming community into a fervor, they need not have worried. Released early in the year for the Nintendo Gamecube, it became an immediate early candidate for Game of the Year, a possibility that still remains. 
The game is a continuation of the franchise, despite the different prem­ise. Set four years after the last game in the series, it stars "Resident Evil 2" character Leon Kennedy. He is no longer a member of the Raccoon Police Department and now works for the government. Umbrella as a corpo­ration has fallen, but that doesn't mean an end to biological mischief. 
The controls for the game are tight and moving, with many environmen­tal interactions being controlled by a single button. This is showcased early in the game, when the player finds himself running from a group of deranged villagers. He has to block doors, kick over ladders and escape through windows, all of which is han­dled smoothly. 
The controls are not perfect, how­ever, though they stem more from gameplay decisions. The player is forced to stand still when firing, which while logical can get annoying when swarmed with enemies. There are also some segments that boil down to mashing a button, a trait that should have been killed in the '90s. 
The recently-released PlayStation 2 version has some bonus features that make it far superior to the Gamecube 
· 
Tuesday, November 15, 2005 

"Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories" '"""'''""roc explore. The citizens of Liberty City each pursue t~ 
iteration. Playing through the game from Ada Wong's perspective, with some entirely new boss battles, makes the game worth picking up, even if you've already played through the Gamecube version. -A 
From Russia with Love Shaken, not stirred? More like stag­nant 
"From Russia with Love" brings rel­atively nothing new to the franchise. While a solid effort, it has little to bring new fans to the genre. 
The game does mark a noticeable change in the Bond video game fran­chise. In a way, it is a return to Bond's roots. It's based off of the classic Bond movie of the same name, featuring a similar Cold War storyline. 
Accordingly, "Russia" is the first Bond game to star the Sir Sean Connery version of Bond as opposed to the Pierce Brosnan version. Connery even lent his voice talents and expertise to the game, creating a more authentic Bond. 
Appearances aside however, Connery's Bond controls much like Brosnan's from previous games. The in-game action is handled in a similar way to "Everything or Nothing," the last game to star Bond. One button is used to ready the current tool or weapon of choice, and another fires. The aiming controls can be a little dif­ficult to use when firing at objects in the environment, but it is a minor 

• Photo courtesy of ign.com 
Sir Sean Connery's Bond, left, talks with one of the characters from "From Russia with Love." Connery voiced his character within the game. 
complaint th play. 
The Bond! the guns, g· addition to t jetpack, a f and multipla 
The multi Bond games recent aren Nothing." T match, capt 
If you've n this is a goo! long-time fa1 apply.-B-
Grand Thel Stories J 
"GTA" has before. Whil iterations "" perspective, computer or first true thr' Rockstar adv1 When the there were 1 the diminuti 
such a har Fortunatel. proved that sition relativ 
For anyon they know version. Car charged an will follow t 
Chronolo · a prequel t This means different bu those who h favorites m such as th Love. 
Unlike "GT cycles in the absence in explained t. being able haunts on a tain thrill. 
Rockstar hi ability to USE the game, a· able progra immensely, a quite forgett1 
All is not J however. Wl copter, it's n 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Tuesday, November 15, 2005 
page 13 
TECH PREVIEW 
Photo courtesy of gamespot.com 

a living, moving environment for anti-hero Toni Cipriani to r own agendas, some running counter to Toni's. 
. arn thnrn, such as 
and girls. i\ nnw 
game franchise is the 
tool in both the single 
modes. 
1layer is more like tho 
1f the past instnad of tho 
-based "Evnrything or 
.re's standard death­
~~-llag, ell:. 
.r played a Bond game, 
place to start. But for 
only din-hards nned 
Auto: Uberty City 
no portable likn never 
the previous handheld 
~fll from an overhead 
JUch like the personal 
ginals, this marks the 
dinwnsional portable 
nture. 
arne was announced, 
cerns as to whether 
system could handle 
ware-intensive game. 
Developer Hockstar 
could make the tran­
ly untouched. 
who has played "GTA," 
at to expect from this 
can be stolen, guns dis­! the Liberty City police n player's every action. cally, the game is set as , "Grand Theft Auto 3." that the town is a little t essentially familiar to tve played "GTA 3." Fan­.ke nlturn appearances, 
entrepreneur Donald 
3," one can use motor­handheld version. Their tho psnudo-sequel is humorous effect, but to drive through old u:ing bike carries a cer­
s also given garners the 
custom soundtracks in 
nit using a download­
. This helps the game 
the induded songs are ln. . rfect in portable land, e possible to lly a heli­
a part of the standard 
gameplay. The Dodo, an infamous short-winged plane from "GTA 3," is also absent. 
But if you have a PSP, this is still the definitive game to own. No other game out offers the gameplay, replay and simple fun "Liberty City Stories" has to otTer. -A+ 
Stubbs the Zombie in Hebel Without a Pulse Very ran'lly do garners see a game as innovative as "Stubbs." 
The premise is an old one. A man returns to life with a penchant for human brains. lie slowly creates a horde of walking dead, which eventu­ally leads to the downfall of the human resistance. Many games have already tackled this theme, the most noticeable being the "Resident Evil" franchise. 
Hut never before has the garner played from the zombie's perspective. 
Assuming the identity of Stubbs the Zombie, the garner adventures through a 50s version or the future. While it is uncertain if Stubbs has some ultimate goal in mind on his journey, one thing is immediately evi­dent from the start of the game­Stubbs is hungry. 
As Stubbs progresses through the game meeting and eating various citi­zens, he will find himself leading an ever-increasing horde of followers. Anyone the player attacks will rise as a zombie, and any person his zombies attack will also rise. This leads to sev­eral moments that could be lifted straight from a Romero movie. 
The game uses the original "Halo" engine, so fans will find themselves right at horne. Newcomers will find the controls intuitive and easy to pick up. 
If there is one complaint with the game, it is that it is too short. Easily beaten within 4-5 hours, many garners will lind the game too short for them. There is some replay through unlockable directors com­mentary and the harder difficulties, but that rests on personal preference. 
At $50, the game is a little pricey for all but the devout zombie fan. Check it out after a price drop, or rent it.-B 
Spartan: Total Warrior 
Action games are a dime a dozen as of late. With the choices currently out, "Spartan" may be better suited for fans of the old Greek and Roman tales. 
The gamer assumes the role of the Spartan, a faceless warrior among Sparta's warrior elite. The game begins with Home invading Greece, conquering the countryside easily and quickly. The last remaining city is the infamous Sparta. Hight before the Homan assault, Ares contacts the Spartan, promising him his godly sup­port. 
The arguments over historical accu­racy aside, this game takes its setting and runs with it well. As the Spartan, the gamer will face legions of Romans, and as the game progresses more mythical beasts as well. The boss battles, and often the skirmishes themselves are intense. 
They are also quite bloody. Limbs and heads are severed at an incredi­ble rate, earning this game its "Mature" rating. 
Bland graphics and a high difficulty hold this game back though. Several parts of the game feel almost too hard, making the "continue" screen a too-common occurrence. 
The slightly older "God of War" may be a better place for garners to get their ancient Greek fix, but there is still fun found in "Spartan."-C+ 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of gamespot.com Stubbs the Zombie, far right, leads a group of zombies on a jail break. The player gets to control Stubbs as he topples a city of the future. 

I 
r 

X-Box 360 Launch Date: November 22, 2005 

Photo courtesy of kotaku.com 

Microsoft's X-Box 360 marks the first console to enter the next generation of gaming. The deluxe package debuts at $400. 
By MARK BEMENDERFER Assistant Scene Editor 
Nov. 22 will herald a new age for garners. It marks the arrival of the first of the next-generation of consoles, the X-Box 360. 
While it is too soon to make solid predictions, Microsoft looks like it is setting itself apart by releasing their console well ahead of the others with some solid launch-titles . 
The sequel to "Perfect Dark" looks like it will be the system's essential purchase, with develop­ment by Hare and a massive rnultiplayer component. Much like the original X-Box's "Halo," the sequel that once again fea­tures heroine Joanna Dark will probably be the system's strongest launch title. 
Fans of "Perfect Dark Zero" will probably also want to look into purchasing "Quake 4" and "Peter Jackson's King Kong." Both promise to be excellent first-person shooters, and early reviews for "Quake 4" have been positive. 
Similar to these but more of a wild-card is "Condemned: Criminal Origins." Developed by SEGA, the game places the play­er into the identity of a police investigator. The mix of action and forensic science should draw people in, but the actual execu­tion is yet to be determined. 
Racing fans will find "Project Gotham Racing 3" to be more suited to their desires, as well as "Ridge Racer 6." Screenshots show both utilizing impressive graphics and should boast a decent library of cars. A nnw "Need for Speed," a series that has always been fairly solid in its delivery, will also be making its appearance. 
Sports fans will have the largest library of games from whieh to choose at launch, their numbers induding "Arnped 3," "FIFA Soecer 06," and "Madden NFL 06," among a few other bas­ketball and hockey titles. i\ grand total of 18 titles will be available at launch, with others announced and in development. 
The X-Box. 360 also features limited backwards eompatibility, with the major sellers being the ones supported. That means it would be unwise to trade in the old X-Box, as there is no guaran­tee a game will be supported. 
The system retails for an impressive $400 with the hard­drive and some decent acces­sories, or a $300 bare-bones package. The hard-drive is required for the backwards com­patibility, however, and the accessories the $400 package gets make it the more economi­cal choiee. 
Pre-orders for the system have been full for months now, with retailers like Game Crazy report­ing having fully pre-sold their shipments as early as July. Interest is high, and with games like the first-person shooter "Gears of War" on the horizon, the X-Box 360's future looks bright. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of gamespot.com In a scene reminiscent of "Aliens," the human marines prepare for combat against the cybernetic Strogg In "Quake 4." 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 15, 2005 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Preseason tournaments produce no surprises 
Redick and company look impressive in Duke's opening victory over Boston University 
Associated Press He finished with six points and Proctor but still managed to get 
10 rebounds, but Paulus had to the winning shot off. 

DURHAM, N.C.-J.J. Redick wait until the final minute to get Tywain McKee led Coppin failed to make a 3-pointer and on the score sheet with a pair of State with 17 points, 15 of which missed two free throws. Other free throws. He also had three came in the second half. than that. Duke's season opener turnovers and no assists while Lehigh plays Butler in went about as expected. mostly serving as Dockery's Tuesday's fifth-place game, and 
Despite those shooting anom­backup. the Eagles will play Alabama alies, Redick scored 19 points Redick had made at least one State for seventh place. and Shelden Williams added 17 shot from long distance in 21 to help the top-ranked Blue straight games, and he got plen­Butler 70, Alabama St. 61 Devils hold off pesky Boston ty of good looks to add to that LARAMIE, Wyo. -Brandon University 64-47 Monday night run. His best chance came mid­Polk scored 26 points in leading in the first round of the NIT way through the first half when Butler over Alabama State in the Season Tip-Off. he stepped around a screen and consolation bracket of the Black 
The Terriers took an early lead swished a jumper that normally Coaches Association Invitational and held it for nearly 12 min­would have been a 3. on Monday. utes, patiently running time off But with this tournament using Alabama State (0-2) led 16-15 the shot clock on nearly every the international distance for the midway through the first half, possession to shorten the game. 3-point arc -a good 7 inches but the Bulldogs (1-1) closed the It worked, too. Duke averaged longer than the NCAA standard half on a 20-6 run, keyed by 10 
112.5 points in two exhibition of 19 feet, 9 inches -his toe points from the 6-foot-6 Polk. games but struggled throughout was on the line. It counted for Brian Ligon added 8 points in in the opener for both teams. only two. the stretch, and Butler entered 
Still, Mike Krzyzewski Even more surprising, the halftime with a 35-22 edge. improved to 24-2 in openers career leader in free-throw per­After going 0-for-9 from 3­since he arrived in Durham, and centage (93.8 percent) finished point range in the first half and the Blue Devils advanced to play only 5-for-7 from the line, a relying on its inside game for the winner of Seton Hall­measly 71 percent points, Butler's guards found Manhattan on Wednesday night. It was good enough to beat BU, their shooting touch in the sec­They are looking for their third which had seven players getting ond half. The Bulldogs made five title in the annual preseason their first college experience. of their first seven 3-point tournament after winning in attempts in the half, including 1985 and 2000. Lehigh 65, Coppin State 64 two apiece for Bruce Horan and 
Getting through this one took a LARAMIE, Wyo.-Jose Olivero A.J. Graves. bit more than anyone could have hit a 3-point shot with 0.3 sec­Horan finished with 12 points expected. Duke opened a 40-26 onds left to lift Lehigh over and Graves with 10. lead at the break before BU ral­Coppin State in the consolation Butler's lead was in double­lied to get within nine on a round of the Black Coaches digits the entire second half until jumper by Corey Hassan early in Invitational Monday. the final minute, when Alabama the second half. Olivero, who was mobbed by State cut it down to the final 
But the Blue Devils slowly his teammates after the shot, margin. by Matt Peterson, who score'd 17 team that won 17 games last pulled away and restored order. finished with a game-high 25 The Hornets were led by points, including three 3-point­season, the Dragons were an A 3-pointer by Sean Dockery points -17 of them in the last Akeim Claborn's 19 points. ers. The Wolverines shot 35 per­unknown quantity entering the made it 60-45 in the final 5 min­14 minutes. He also had six Butler will play in Tuesday's cent and committed 20 contest. They started slowly, but utes and they held on from assists and four rebounds. fifth-place game of the BCA turnovers. picked up steam quickly, relying there. The Mountain Hawks led 32-Invitational. Alabama State was Utah Valley State twice cut the on Mejia's timely outside shoot­
This figures to be a fun year 27 at halftime and expanded to play for seventh place. Raider lead to 10 points after ing and a 46-17 rebounding for Coach K, who has a No. 1 that lead to 47-38 with 10 min­halftime, the second coming at advantage to gain the victory. team for the 13th season to utes, 26 seconds to play. But Colgate 55, Utah Valley St. 42 the 6:58 mark when Ben Devoe The turning point came mid­break a mark he shared with Coppin State went on a 13-3 run IOWA CITY, Iowa -Kendall sank a jump hook. way through the first half after a John Wooden. After making it to take a one-point lead, and for Chones and Kyle Roemer scored But Colgate answered with an 3-pointer by Princeton's through last season with a roster the fmal six minutes, the teams 13 points apiece to lead Colgate 11-6 closing run, including a 3-Harrison Schaen gave the Tigers that featured only eight recruit­were never separated by more to a victory over Utah Valley pointer later to put Colgate up a 16-9lead. Drexel reeled off the ed players, Krzyzewski has the than three points. State on Monday in the first 53-39 with 3:07 left. next 17 points, with Mejia full complement, including tal­Coppin State's Darryl Roberts round of the Guardians Classic. The Wolverines are in their accounting for 10 of them. ented freshmen Greg Paulus and had given the Eagles (0-2) a 64-The Raiders (1-0) on Tuesday third year of Division I competi­Princeton didn't snap the run Josh McRoberts. 62 lead with just 2.8 seconds will play the winner of tion, finishing 16-12 a year ago until Noah Savage's 3-pointer 
Those two entered their first remaining on a falling 15-foot Maryland-Eastern Shore and No. as an independent school. brought the Tigers within seven games together with 16 1/2 min­jumper. 20 Iowa, the host of the tourna­at the 47.6-second mark. But utes left in the first half, and After a timeout, Lehigh (1-1) ment's Midwest regional. Randy Oveneke drained a pair McRoberts immediately made threw the ball in to just past Jon Foss added 10 points for Drexel 54, Princeton 41 of free throws to send Drexel his presence felt. After Redick halfcourt and called another Colgate, which never trailed and Princeton, NJ.-Drexel domi­into intermission ahead 28-19. missed a 3 -he finished 0-for-4 time out with 2.1 seconds left. capitalized on the Wolverines' 12 nated inside and got 18 points The Tigers closed to within from behind the arc The Hawks struggled to get the first-half turnovers and poor from Dominick Mejia to beat four, 36-32, on a shot by Kyle McRoberts leaped high to put ball inbounds before fmally get­shooting to build a 28-14 lead at Princeton Monday night in a Koncz from beyond the arc. But back the rebound for his first ting it to Olivero, who was well the half. Preseason NIT first-round game. Drexel quickly regained control basket. covered by Coppin State's Darryl The Wolverines (0-1) were led Having lost four starters off a and held on for the win. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Caring, organized individuals need- House for rent.  123 NO Ave.  HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6  
NOTICES  ed to place exchange students in local schools and host families.  3 BR, 1 BA, 2 Car Gar. Clay Area.  3 bdrm, 1.5 bath. Call574-229-0149.  bdrms includes all utilities, local phone,washer/dryer,security sys- PERSONAL  
Earn a per-student stipend and pas­ $700/mo.  tern. $400/student. 574-315-2509  
SPRING BREAKERS  sible travel to Europe.  574-210-8308.  For rent:  ndstudentrentals.com 2006  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
Book Early and Save  888-266-2921 or  Two story house completely  SPRING SEMESTER  Do not go it alone.  
Lowest Prices  sumckeen@ ie-usa.com  KRAMER PROPERTIES HOUSES  remodeled 2003.  NOW AVAILABLE.  If you or someone you love needs  
Hottest Destinations BOOK 15=  FOR LEASE FOR THE 06/07  Ready for immediate occupancy or  confidential support or assistance,  
2 FREE TRIPS OR CASH FREE MEALSPARTIES BY 11/7  Fashion Designer seeks NO Rep. Hedyhandbags.corn 206-226-6003  SCHOOL YEAR. CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  next semester or next school year. Off street parking includes motion  TICKETS  please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at 1-7819.  
Highest Commission  4 BEDROOMS,  sensor light for security.  For more information,  
Best Travel Perks www.sunsplashtours.com  NOTICES  UPTO 10 BEDROOMS. CALL 315-5032  Four individually locked bedrooms, central station monitored security  WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. TOP$$ PAID.  see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  
1-800-426-771 0  ASK FOR KRAMER.  system,six blocks from Notre  251-1570.  
YEA! COLLEGE PARK has  Dame, bus stop in front of house,  Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5  
WANTED  apartments available for 06-07 school year.  GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGHBORHOODS  surrounded by other student hous­ing, Laundromat next door, base- FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEB- Days from $299! Includes Meals,  
Call today  06/07 & 07/08  ment available for storage of bicy- SITE FOR$$:  MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun,  
CHRISTMAS HELP NOW! $12.25  235-7234.  andersonNDrentals.corn  cles, luggage, trunks, etc.,  www. victorytickets.com  Acapulco, Jamaica  
base/appt. Flexible schedules  57 4-233-994 7  new furnace and central air, new  From $499!  
around classes, customer sales &  WALK TO SCHOOL  kitchen including new stove and  BUYING & SELLING NO FOOT- Campus Reps Needed!  
service, conditions apply, all ages  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES  3-6 bdrrn homes for 06/07.  refrigerator, large living room for TV  BALL TIX.  PromoCode:31  
17 & older.  MMMRENTALS.COM  Also avail. now.  or entertaining, free trash removal.  CHECK MY PRICES.  www.springbreaktravel.com  
Call Now! 574-273-3835.  532-1408  574-329-0308.  Call 289-4071.  273-3911.  1-800-678-6386  





OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, November 15, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE ()RSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NFL
BCS Standings 
record
team avg 
1 usc 10·0 .9829 2 Texas 10-0 .9771 3 Miami 8-1 .8906 4 Penn State 9-1 .8520 5 LSU 8-1 .8224 6 Virginia Tech 8-1 .7895 7 Ohio State 8·2 .7295 8 Alabama 9-1 .6893 9 NOTRE DAME 7-2 .6805 10 Oregon 9-1 .6803 11 UCLA 9-1 .5508 12 West Virginia 8-1 .5487 13 Auburn 8·2 .4875
..
14 TCU 10-1 .4520 15 Michigan 7-3 .4040 16 Georgia 7-2 .4029 17 Fresno State 8·1 .2630 18 Louisville 7-2 .2275 19 Texas Tech 8-2 .2211 20 Wisconsin 8-3 .2056 21 Minnesota 7·3 .1973 22 Florida 7-3 .1645 23 South Carolina 7-3 .1372 24 Boston College 7-3 .1286 25 Oklahoma 6·3 .1205 
Men's Basketball Big East Preseason Standings 
No. te1tm 1 Syracuse 2 West Virginia 3 Cincinnati 4 Connecticut 5 DePaul 6 Georgetown 7 Louisville 8 Marquette 

9 NOTRE DAME 10 Pittsburgh 11 Providence Associated Press the ball well and playing badly after that play with NFC East standings. Dallas 12 Rutgers with the team-oriented a groin injury, and was (6-3) is tied with tho New 
13 Seton Hall balance they talked about scheduled for an MRI York Giants for first place,
14 St. John's 

PHILADELPHIA -Now all week. exam Tuesday. McNabb, one game ahead of 
15 South Florida 

the Eagles' problems are Then Drew Bledsoe con­who is playing with a Washington.
16 Villanova 

much bigger than just nected with Terry Glenn sports hernia that will When it was over, Dallas Terrell Owens. on a 20-yard TO pass with require surgery, played coach Bill Parcells shook Roy Williams intercepted 3:04 left that cut it to 20-one more series after the his head in disbelief as he Donovan McNabb's pass 14. On the second play interception before giving approached Andy Heid, and ran it back 46 yards after the ensuing kickoff, way to Mike McMahon for whose Eagles outplayed Women's Big East Volleyball for a touchdown with 2:43 McNabb's poorly thrown the Eagles' final posses­the Cowboys -until left, leading the Dallas pass was picked off by sion. Dallas' two touchdowns Standings Cowboys to a 21-20 come­Williams, who outran The Eagles had a final that came 21 seconds back victory over McNabb as the quarter­chance, but David Akers' apart. The Cowboys lost a Philadelphia on Monday back tried to tackle him. 60-yard field goal attempt Monday night game in
team record pet. 

night in the Eagles' first "I didn't really think he failed miserably. similar fashion to
1 NOTRE DAME 13·1 0.929 

game since T.O. was told was gonna throw the The reigning NFC cham­Washington in the second
2 Louisville 13·1 0.929 

not to return to the team. ball," Williams said. "My pion Eagles (4-5) lost their week of the season, giving
3 Syracuse 11·3 0.786 

The Eagles were in con­eyes lit up and the rest is third straight game for the up two long touchdown
4 Cincinnati 9-5 0.643 

trol most of the game, history." first time since 1999 and passes to Santana Moss in
5 St. John's 9-5 0.643 

showing poise, running McNabb was hobbling fell further behind in the the waning minutes.
6 Pittsburgh 9·5 0.643 7 Marquette 8-6 0.571 8 Villanova 8·6 0.571 9 Connecticut 1·1 D.500 
10 Rutgers 6·8 D.429 IN BRIEF 
11 West Virginia 4-10 0.286 

12 Seton Hall Maddon selected as new really looking forward to it." incredibly positive impact the Motor
4·10 0.286 

13 Georgetown 2-12 0.143 manager of Devil Rays Maddon, 33-26 in three stints as City has made over thn coursn of our 1·13 ST. PETEHSBURG, Fla. -The Angels interim manager in 1996, country's histor·y."
14 DePaul 0.071 

15 USF 1·13 0.071 Tampa Bay Devil Hays hired Los 1998 and 1999, did not immediately Former Red Sox Pitcher Angeles Angels bench coach Joe return phone messages left by The arrested on Monday Maddon as manager, adding another Associated Press. JACKSON, Miss. -Formnr Boston important piece to what they hope is NBA levels fine against Hed Sox pitcher Dnnnis "Oil Can" a winning formula for the future. Kings for derogatory video Boyd surrnndered Monday to li1dnral 
Maddon finalized a contract NEW YOHK -The Sacramento agnnts in Tupelo to face charges lw Monday for his first full-time manag­Kings were lined $30,000 by the NBA threatened a former girlfrimHI.
around the dial 
ing job in the major leagues. lie on Monday for showing derogatory John G. Haucci, special agent in replaces Lou Piniella and inherits a images of Detroit on video screens charge of the FBI in Mississippi, and solid nucleus of young talent that prior to their home opener against U.S. Attorney Jim M. Greenl11e said in CoLLEGE FooTBALL ownership expects to blossom in the the Pistons. a statement. that Boyd allngedly next few years. When the Pistons were introduced made live telephone calls in which lw
Bowling Green at Miami (OH) 

The Devil Hays confirmed the hir­Nov. 8, the Arco Arena scoreboard threatened to harm the ex-girlfriend,
7:00 p.m., ESPN 2 

ing, scheduling a press conference flashed pictures of abandoned build­who also was his business associate. for Tuesday to introduce Maddon as ings, burned-out cars, piles of rubble and possibly her sor1. Authorities2005 WORLD SERIES OF POKER Piniella's successor. The St. and other negative images of Detroit. would not say why no firm accusa­
7:00p.m., ESPN Petersburg Times and Tampa The Pistons won the game 102-88. tion was madn concerning the Tribune reported in Monday editions The Kings apologized that night woman's son and did not reveal their that the team selected Maddon over and owners Joe and Gavin Maloof names.
CoLLEGE BASKETBALL 

incumbent Devil Rays bench coach bought full-page ads that ran in The Boyd was indicted by a federal
New Mexico State at UCLA 

John McLaren the day before. Detroit News and Detroit Free Press, grand jury in Mississippi earlier this 
10:00 p.m., ESPN2 ''I'm very happy, excited, eager, all expressing "great respect for month. The 45-year-old Meridian 
those things," Maddon told the Detroit's long and rich tradition as a native, now lives in East Providence, Times. "It's a great situation and I'm landmark American city and the IU. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 15,2005 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
USC, Texas two wins away from Rose Bowl 
The country's two best teams are on pace to meet in the BCS championship game 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Only once before has a team been where Southern California and Texas are in the Bowl Championship Series standings and not played for a national title. 
The Trojans and Longhorns held the top two spots Monday, and are both unbeaten with three weeks left in the regular season. With two more victories each, they'll lock up spots in the Rose Bowl for a matchup that has appeared inevitable for months. 
USC is in first with a BCS average of .9829 and Texas is second at .9771. 
Miami is in third place with one loss, needing a misstep by the top two to play for a national title. 
BCS history says USC vs. Texas in Pasadena, Calif., on Jan. 4 is all but a sure thing. 
In the seven previous years the BCS has determined college football's champ, 12 undefeated teams have held one of the top two spots in the standings with three weeks to go. Only one of those teams -UCLA in 1998 ­didn't play in the BCS title game. 
Oklahoma was unbeaten and first in the standings heading into its final regular-season game two seasons ago, lost the Big 12 title game to Kansas 
State, and still played for the BCS championship. 
That year USC was left out of the title game and eventually shared a national championship with LSU. 
The Trojans and Longhorns are such a solid 1-2 in the BCS standings, the question that can now be asked is: Could USC or Texas lose a game and still reach the Rose Bowl? 
BCS analyst Jerry Palm said it's unlikely the Trojans or Longhorns could do what Oklahoma did in 2003 or what Nebraska pulled off in 2001, when the Cornhuskers lost their final regular-season game to Colorado and still played Miami for the BCS title. 
"The formula now is so poll driven that if you lose·late in the season you're pretty much dead," he said. 
After Oklahoma was No. 3 in the polls but still played LSU in the Sugar Bowl two seasons ago, the BCS revamped its for­mula to make the polls worth two-thirds of a BCS average and the computer rankings worth only one-third. Also, the strength of schedule component was eliminated because comput­ers and poll voters take strength of schedule into account. 
"Oklahoma was the last of those teams in the polls, but the computers and strength of schedule moved them up," Palm said. 


The key is the polls, and whether Texas or USC could hold one of the top two spots in the coaches' and Harris polls after a loss. 
That'd be a tough task for the Longhorns, who will be big favorites at Texas A&M (5-5) on Nov. 25 and in the Big 12 cham­pionship on Dec. 3 against either Colorado, Missouri or Iowa State. 
"Worrying about anything but A&M right now is just foolish," said Texas tight end David Thomas, reciting the party line. 
USC, which has been No. 1 in the AP, coaches' and Harris polls all season, looks to have the tougher remaining oppo­nents but both games are at home. 

NCAA BASKETBALL 

Chaney goes for SOOth win as coach at Temple 
The Owls look to advance in Preseason NIT with win over Army tonight 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA-One of John Chaney's first decisions at Temple was letting his players decide when to practice. 
Some preferred the afternoon, others the evening and a few did­n't care. When no unanimous decision could be reached, Chaney stepped in. 
"He looked around and said, 'OK, I'll make one for you. Everyone be here at 5 o'clock­in the morning!"' former Owls standout Ed Coe said. "So that's how that all started." 
Now, when Mardy Collins and Dustin Salisbery are sweating at the gym before most people sip their morning coffee, they can blame the players from Chaney's early years. 
"Yeah, but he probably would have done that anyway," Coe said. 
Coe's probably right about that. Through 23 seasons, 17 NCAA tournament appearances, a few controversies and lasting role as father figure, Chaney has gone 
his own way. Through it all, he's managed to 
I. 
' 
win. 
With a win against Army in the first round of the Preseason NIT on Tuesday night, Chaney will have his SOOth victory at Temple. The 2001 Hall of Fame inductee is 724-297 in 33-years as a coach at Division II Cheyney State and Temple, and 499-238 in 23 years with the Owls. 
The 73-year-old Chaney insists 
milestones don't mean as much as the people, the experiences and the stories. 
"It makes you take inventory of the people who have served you well, that have been great to the university," Chaney said. "It's the people that I love, people that mean a lot to me. When I look back, it gives me a chance to look forward." 
Some thought Chaney should­n't even be around for a shot at No. 500. He was suspended for three games last year for sending in a player to intentionally foul an opponent. Chaney never con­sidered stepping down and remains as stubborn and fiery as ever. 
"I still have enthusiasm, I still have the passion," Chaney said. "I still love these kids." 
The Owls have made five NCAA regional finals under Chaney, but they've never reached the Final Four and have played in four straight NITs. 
Still, when Chaney joined Temple in 1982, he took over a program that had only two NCAA tournament bids in the previous decade and wasn't widely known outside Philadelphia. 
He recorded his first Temple win in the first game of the 1982 season, 68-67 over George Washington, though the Owls fin­ished 14-15 for his only losing season. 
Coe sat out Chaney's first sea­son while recovering from a bro­ken foot. When Chaney replaced 
Don Casey, Coe considered transferring because he knew lit­tle about his new coach. Coe did­n't even know Chaney led Cheyney State in suburban Philadelphia to the 1978 Division II national championship. 
"He took it upon himself to put his hand out for me and that meant a lot," Coe said. 
Having to watch for a season gave Coe insight into Chaney. The coach has always been tough on his players, quick with a rebuke after a turnover, but there with a slap on the back for a job well done. 
Mark Macon, Temple's career leading scorer and now an assis­tant, was so awed by Chaney the first time they met that he com­mitted to the school without a visit. 
"Some of the words have changed in terms of what he says, but the education you get and the meanings are the same," Macon said. "The teaching style hasn't changed, the philosophy hasn't changed. It all goes back to the same point." 
No turnovers. Play hard. Study. 
"When I look back at some of the ones that started off with me years ago, the ones that I'm with now are just as important," Chaney said. "When I look at it, you see the many, many faces that have meant so much to me and continue to mean a lot to me." 
After the Preseason NIT, 
comes another Temple staple -a nonconference schedule scattered with Top 25 teams like No. 1 Duke, No. 5 Villanova and No. 15 Alabama. There's a method to Chaney's scheduling besides trying to toughen his team for the NCAA tournament in March. 
"By bringing in the Dukes, the Marylands, the Indianas, I brought the big teams here," Chaney said. "Nobody else brought them here." 


BOOK A PARTY PACKAGE 
110111. ACCOMODATION, C:I.LIB PASSLS, DISCOUNlS R..OOMS AS Ll_)W AS $20 PFR.. PFR..SON PLR NICIII 

1-888-245-6171 
19+ to enter with valid ID 
For more info visit peppersbarandgrill.com or Call 1.888.243.6171 Passports not required to enter Canodo! {Birth Certifscote ond government Photo ID only) 


Tuesday, November I 5, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 



NFL 
Bengals ready for 9-0 Colts 
AssociatcJ Pres. 
CINCINNATI -Bnf'orn tlwy lu~adPd oil' for tlll'ir WPPk of' H&H -rPsl and rPiaxing in f'irst placn -tlw Cincinnati Bm1gals madP a wish. 
Thny wantnd thP Indianapolis Colts to IH' unlwatnn wlwn tlwy rPlurrwd al'tnr l.hnir byn w1wk, giving liH'rrr tlw rhancn to bump ofT a 'J-0 !.Pam for thn sncond limP in thn~n yPars. 
"I would lovl' il. and all tlw hypP lhat c·omns with it coming into C:inrinnati," guard Bobbin Williams said. hdorn !wading honw last wnnk. 
Tlwy didn't nvnn try to hide tlu~ir rooting intnrnst. 
"You always want to bn the first to knock tlwm oil'," running back Hudi Johnson said. 
Wish grantnd. 
The Colts rnmairH'd the Nl•'l.'s last unlwatnn tnam with a 31-17 victory Sunday ovnr thn Texans. Tlwy'r1~ the I I th team sinco I 'J70 to win their first nine ganws, and havn a ehance to hncomn tlw first team sincn J>nnvnr in 199H to go 10-0. 
Standing in thnir way is the last tnam to nnd somebody's 9-0 streak. Kansas City came to Cindnnati with the same reeord in 2003, rocnivnr Chad Johnson guarantnnd a vie tory, and tho Bnngals got a 24-19 win that amounted to a breakthrough undnr coach Marvin Lnwis. 
That was a novelty. A lot has changed in the last two years. 
The Bengals (7-2) are no longer looking f'or attnntion with an unbeaten tnam coming to town. Tlwy'rn more interested in a win that keeps them in first place in tlw AFC North, where they're currently tied with Pittsburgh. 
"Thoro's a lot more at stake," left tackle Levi Jones said Monday. "There's a lot more rid­ing on it than when we played Kansas City." 
That game will be remem­hernd in part f'or Johnson's 
brash guarantee, which angered vetnran teammates and Lewis. lin hasn't guaranteed any victo­ries since then, turning his cre­ativity toward Riverdance touch­down celebrations and who­can't-cover-me checklists. 
Johnson hadn't given it much thought on Monday, deciding it was too soon after the bye to pick a theme for this 9-0 team. lie needed a couple of days to think about it. 
"I won't have no good stuff until Wednesday," he said. ''I'm not guaranteeing anything until Wednesday." 
I lis demeanor lit the mood in the locker room Monday. The Bengals got what they wished for when the Colts won, but were having second thoughts about whether it was a such a good thing after all. 
"I actually was hoping they would lose this past week or the week before," quarterback 
Write Sports. Call Mike. 1-4543 


Carson Palmer said. "We're still shooting to win the rest of our games and hopefully get home­field advantag1~ and a bye week in the playoll's. We hope to beat them, and we hope they drop another game to give us that advantage." 
The Bengals are tied with Pittsburgh and Denver for the AFC's second-best record at 7-2. The team with the best record in each conference gets home-field advantage throughout the play­oft's, and the top two teams get first-round byes. 
Every time the Colts win, they stay two steps ahead of the pack. 
"That's going to be a huge game for us to go out and keep pace with several teams that are 7-2 right now," right tackle Willie Anderson said. "The more we can keep winning and stay­ing on pace, it's going to be bet­ter for us." 

NBA 
Camby emerging as solid offensive threat 

arrived in J>nnv11r to learn
Nuggets forward is 
that Camby was mueh more than the def'ensiv11 specialist
scoring 16.1 points 
he had been defined as over per game this season his early ynars in the lnagun with Toronto and New York. 
Associated Press 
Sinee his rookie year, in whieh he averag11d 14.S 
DENVEH -When the points, Camby has never coach started lecturing about averaged more than 12 lax defense, Marcus Camby points-a game in any season. took it personally. When the Nuggets traded 
Anyone who has watched Antonio McDyess to the the Nuggets of late knows, Knicks in 2002 for Camby however, that Camby's game and Nene, Camby wasn't is about more than defense anything close to the headlin­these days. He's dominating er in that deal. Considered 
on  both ends of  one-dimension­ 
the court, lead­ al  and  injury  
ing  many  to  "He's definately  prone,  many  
believe he has finally made it onto the list of  one of the top four or five players in  thought h11 might not last long with the  
the NBA's elite  the league ifhe  Nuggets.  
centers. "He's definitely one of the top  continues to play this way."  Now, though, he's sign11d through 2010  
four or five play­ and figures  to  
ers in the league  Earl Boykins  be  a  eorner­ 
if' he continues  Denver guard  stone  of  

to play this way," Nuggets guard Earl Boykins said of the 10-year veteran. "lie's basically our anchor." 
His 16.1 points a game are third in the league among centers, behind only Yao Ming and Mchmet Okur. Not so surprising is that Camby leads all NBA players with 
14.1 rebounds and 3. 7 blocks a game. 
Maybe most impressively, he has led the Nuggets in rebounding in all snven of' their games and has led them in both scoring and rebounding four times. 
"In my eyes, he's an Ail-Star cen t e r," Canne I o Anthony said. 
The Nuggets have strug­gled to a 3-4 start. but it's no fault of Camby's. I! is role has become even more important with injuries to forwards Nene and, more recently, Kenyon Martin, whoso sore knoe kept him out of Sunday night's win ovor Minnesota and could force him to miss more time. 
"I just tried to will my team to a victory," Camby said. "I just had to be more voeal and step up my level of play. K­Mart is a big part of what we do. I don't· know how long he's going to be out. If he's going to be out an extended period of time, I have to pick up my level of play." 
The big question is, how much better can he get? Coach George Karl said he was very surprised when he 
Denver's plans, alongside Anthony. 
Although he's not a tradi­tional, baek-to-the-basknt post player, Camby ean scorn inside and, af'ter ext11nsivP work on his jumper. tlw (J­foot-11 center routirwly hits from the top of the kny wlrern dofnnsns still often leave him open. Camby is shooting !i6.S pnrcnnt. this season. 
Against Uw Timberwolvns. he outplayed Kevin (;arrwtt. llis 22 rebounds wnn~ till' high in tlw lnagun this young season. lin outn~boundnd the entirn Minnesota team 14-1 :! in the first hall'. 
"lin's had t.hrnn or four of' them all year wlwrn lw was a dominant player around thn basket," Karl said. "llis oiTensn has improved. thought lw showed lw was a elass playnr on the court. Wlwn you'rn playing against Kevin Carrwtt, I think it was a pretty irnprnssiv11 perform­anen. And wn nnndnd it." 
While it's hard to prediet whntlwr Camby's ofTnnsn will stay on tho bnst paee of his earner, the defnnse has always bnen dependably good. 
In Karl's system, good defense is supposed to set the tempo that leads to good offense. In a season in which Denver has struggled thus far, Camby is among the f'ew on the roster who has bnen putting that philosophy into play. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 15, 2005 
MLB 




A-Rod edges Big Papi for AL MVP award 
Rodriguez becomes first Yankee to win elite honor since Mattingly in 1985 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Alex Hodriguez showed slick field­ing counts, winning his second American Lnague Most Valuable Player award in three seasons by defeating David Ortiz in a vote that rewarded an all-around player over a designatnd hittnr. 
Hodriguez, in his second sea­son as the Nnw York Yankees' third baseman, received 16 first-place votes, 11 seconds and one third for 331 points from the Baseball Writers' Association of America in bal­loting announced Monday. 
Ortiz, the Dll for the Boston Hed Sox, got 11 firsts and 17 snconds for 307 points. Los Angeles Angels outfielder Vladimir Guerrero received the other first-place vote and was third with 196 points. 
"I think defensn, for the most part, being a balanced player and also saving a lot of runs on the defensive side, I think was a major factor ·here," Hodriguez said. "To me, defense is foremost. It's always been. The White Sox showed us this year pitching and defense wins to this day." 
Voting was done before the start of the postseason, when both the Yankees and Red Sox were eliminated in the first round. Rodriguez hit .133 with no RBis in a five-game loss to the Angels while Ortiz batted .333 with a home run as the defending champion Red Sox were swept by the Chicago White Sox. 
"I would certainly trade his World Series championship for this MVP trophy," Rodriguez said, thinking back to Boston's 2004 title. "That's the only reason I play baseball. It's what I'm consumed to do right now." 
Rodriguez hit .321 with an AL-high 48 homers, 130 RBis and 21 steals, breaking Joe DiMaggio's 68-year-old Yankees record for home runs by a right-handed hitter (46). A-Rod also won the award in 2003, his final season as the Texas Rangers' shortstop before he was dealt to the Yankees. 
He didn't think the award would end criticism that he doesn't perform in the clutch or isn't a winner. 
"We can win three World Series, with me, it's never going to be over. I think my benchmark is so high that no matter what I do, it's never going to be enough, and I understand that," he said. "Maybe when I retire is when all critics and all that kind of stuff will end." 
Ortiz batted .300 with 47 homers, a major league-lead­ing 148 RBis and one steal. Big Papi had 34 RBis that put his team ahead, the most in the AL, and had eight RBis from the seventh inning on that gave Boston the lead for good. 
"He is the one special player right now, like Barry Bonds, who can change the game around simply with his bat­ting," Rodriguez said. 
Ortiz could not be reached for comment. 
"Without David, we don't make the postseason. David made an enormous impact on this team, and you can't understate his impact in the clubhouse," Red Sox teammate Curt Schilling said. "Congratulations to Alex. Either one of them could have won it. Both had MVP years." 
Hodriguez became the first Yankees player to win the award since Don Mattingly in 1985 and only the fourth play­er to win an MVP with two 
teams,  joining  Bonds  
(Pittsburgh  and  San  
Francisco),  Jimmie  Foxx  

(Philadelphia Athletics and Red Sox) and Frank Robinson (Cincinnati and Baltimore). 
''I'm very pleased with the year he had," Yankees manag­er Joe Torre said. "lie's getting more comfortable here in New York. Alex helped us win so many games, both offensively and defensively, and he contin­ues to improve." 
Still, A-Rod would have had a different approach in October if he had a chance against the Angels, who tried to pitch around him. 
"My one regret is 1 thought 1 could have walked 10 or 12 times and really just passed the baton and been a little bit mor·e patient," he said. "Probably at the end, I got a little overanxious." 
A-Rod also is the fourth to win at two positions, following Detroit's Hank Greenberg (first base and left field), the St. Louis Cardinals' Stan Musial (outfield and first base) and the Milwaukee Brewers' Robin Yount (shortstop and center field). 
The Yankees have won the award 19 times, the most of any team. 
"A-Rod demonstrates the tal­ent, hard work, and dedication of a true winner," Yankees owner George Steinbrenner said in a statement. "I look forward to great things for many years from A-Rod as a Yankee." 
Rodriguez also spoke pub­licly for the first time about a report in the New York Daily News this month that he was at a New York poker club. Playing at such clubs is not illegal, though it can be against the law to operate them, the Daily News report­ed. 
"Obviously, it wasn't the right thing to do," he said. "In retrospect, it's probably a place I shouldn't have gone." 
Rodriguez gets a $1 million bonus for winning the MVP for the second time during his record $252 million, 10-year contract. With Ortiz's second­place finish, the price of Boston's 2007 club option increases by $400,000 to $8.4 million. The buyout goes up by the same amount to $1.4 mil­lion. 
Guerrero got $200,000 for finishing third and Boston out­fielder Manny Ramirez gets $75,000 for placing fourth. 
Cleveland DH Travis Hafner was fifth and earned an auto­matic $200,000 annual raise to $2.7 million next year and $3.95 million in 2007, with the price of Cleveland's 2008 option rising to $4.95 million. 


AP Yankees third baseman Alex Rodriguez doubles in the fourth inning against the White Sox on Aug. 20. Rodriguez won the AL MVP Monday after hitting 48 home runs this season. 
1 


I t r 
I 1m 
r 
r 
Campus Ministry '06-'07 
Information Session for Prospective Interns 

Tuesday November 15th 5:00pm to 6:00pm 316 Coleman-Morse 
PIZZA WILL BE PROVIDED 
Come to meet the current interns, ask any questions and pick up applications 
If you have any questions, contact Darrell Paulsen at 631-5827 or dpaulse1 @nd.edu 

Tuesday, November 15, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
-

Shaner 
continued from page 24 
minute game, its not 89 min­utes long." 
For a team that is known for its strong o!Tensive attack, the defense has been just as con­sistent. 
Notre Dame's defense has not given up a goal in the last six games, dating back to a 5-1 win over Georgetown in the team's regular season finale. 
The Irish have outscored their opponents 55-1 since los­ing to Marquette on Sept. 30. 
"I know for a while we were trying to not let the other team have any shots on goal," Shaner said. "And if they did get shots on goal, just keeping the shutout was another issue. 
"Now we go into every game saying, 'This is our zone, and we are not going to let anyone by.' Dnfnnse wins games for you, so if you are always one goal ahnad, you're going to win nvnry game." 

But as well as Notre Dame continues to play on defense, it has not received the same recognition as the offense. 
"As in any sport, the offense usually gets more of the atten­tion," defender Kim Lorenzen said. "I mean, nobody really cares how many balls the backs win. The four of us in the back and even in the midfield­ers just really focus on limiting how many shots they get on goal." 
Notre Dame finds itself in an unlikely quarterfinals match against Yale Friday. Yale defeated the No. 3-seed Duke 2-1 Sunday on a last-second shot. 
"We all assumed that we'd be playing Duke, because we know Duke's a very good team," Shaner said. "By any means, we can't underestimate Yale because they obviously proved themselves, and any­thing can happen in the NCAA tournament." 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish ink five solid recruits 
Notre Dame will go into next year minus five current seniors 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
In the middle of a very sue­cessful season, Irish eoach Debbie Brown announced last Wednesday the signing of a highly-touted recruiting class -perhaps the best in Notre Da­me's history. 
Five high school stand­outs signed letters of intent to join the Irish next season, replacing the five seniors the team loses to graduation at the end of this year. 
Outside hitter/middle block­er Megan Fesl of Arlington Heights, Ill., outside hitter Christina Kaelin of Lousiville, Ky., middle blocker Kim Kristoff of Carmel, Ind., setter Jamel Nicholas of Pittsburgh, Pa. and outside hitter/middle blocker Serinity Phillips of Valley Center, Calif., make up the heralded class. 
They are labeled as one of the top recruiting classes in the nation according to prepvolleyball.corn. Three of the athletes rank in the top 25 of high school seniors, while all five are ranked in the top 150. 
"It's a very strong class," .Brown said. "A lot of people 


Investment Banking 101: From Notre Dame to Investment Banking 
• 
Develop an understanding of Wall Street, its past, present, and future 

• 
Learn about the industry, banking trends, and the role of an Analyst 

• 
Prepare yourself on how to land a job in Investment Banking Date: November 15, 2005 


Time: 7:00PM-9:00PM Venue: Club Room at Legends Please visit our website: www.ubs.com/graduates UBS is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity in its workplace. (M/F/DN) 
Wealth Global Asset Investment Management Management Bank 
rank them in the top 150 recruits, and three of them in the top 25, so we're excited about it for sure." 
Only Nebraska and Penn State ean claim to have nearly as good of a recruiting class as the Irish. Each of those current top 5 teams have signed two recruits ranked in the top 15 by prepvolleyball.com. 
Other than that, the Irish have the rest of the AVCA top 
25 beat. 
While Bro­wn recognizes the incoming freshmen will need to con­tribute next season imme­diately, she doesn't want to get too far ahead of her­
self.  She  
wants  to  
savor  the  
moment  and  

enjoy the out­standing sea-
right now,

"It's a very strong 
Brown said. 

class. A lot ofpeople 
Still, this sea­rank them in the top son's successes are already
150 recruits, and 
having a huge

three ofthem in the 
impaet for the top 25, so we're Notre Dame 
excited about it for volleyball pro­
gram.
sure. 

And while this year's five Debbie Brown seniors are Irish coach irreplaceable, 
five top recruits eer­tainly won't hurt. 
"We feel good about each of [the reeruitsl and the things that they bring," Brown said. 
Next season, the Irish will have junior Danielle Herndon and sophomores Adrianna Stasiuk, Ashley Tarutis and Ellen Heintzman back as their core. In addition to those four, freshmen Mallorie Croal, Madison Clark, Justine Stremiek and Annie Mokris will be back. Those four have all contributed throughout the season. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 

_ 

son the Irish currently are having. 
"We're really excited about the class," she said. "It's a really good class. Obviously, we have an outstanding group of seniors right now. It's not like you can replace them because each class is going to be different." 
Notre Dame is ranked No. 8 in the American Volleyball Coaches' Association rankings and has won 24 of 26 match­es this season. The Irish clinched the No. 1 seed in the Big East tournament and won the regular season for the 1Oth time in the past 11 years. 
The Irish, who begin Big East tournament play Friday afternoon against Villanova in Louisville, ;ire thinking more about the five seniors they have now. 
"We really haven't thought a whole lot, espncially during the season right now, about how they're !the live recruits! going to fit in and all that kind of stuff because we're pretty preoceupied with what we're doing with the team 
You&Us *UBS 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, November 15, 2005 


ECDC ANNUAL BOOK FAIR 
When: Nov. 14-18 & 21, 2005,8:00 a.m.-5:15p.m. Where: ECDC-ND and ECDC-SMC (ECDC-ND is located on Bulla Road across from O'Hara Grace Residences, ECDC-SMC is located in Havican Hall on the Saint Mary's Campus) What: Scholastic Book Fair with a wide sel~ction of quality children's books for preschoolers through upper elementary grades, including chapter books. Cookbooks and other books great for families are also available for purchase. How: Come and check out the wide selection of quality books available. Pay by cash, check or credit card. Why: SUPPORT ECDC! Great holiday gifts. All funds raised will go towards the purchase of educational materials for ECDC. 

Reuland 
continued from page 24 
Notre Dame over Georgia Tech, Virginia Tech and Florida. He's a big-time line­backer that Notre Dame really likes." 
While Richardson is expect­ed to play linebacker in col­lege, he has also played defen­sive end for Westlake High School in Atlanta. lie is listed at 6-foot-3, 235 pounds and has been timed at 4. 75 sec­onds in the 40-yard dash. 
"He can run pretty well," Frank said. "He loves to hit 
CLUB SPORTS 
Squash club falls in Northwestern 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's shorthanded squash dub dropped a pair of matehes at Northwestern this weekend, falling to Northwestern, 8-1. Purdue, 7­1, and Penn State, 8-1. At No. 1, James Zhang, a formPr member of the Singapore National Junior team, estab­lished himself' as one of the top players in the Midwest as he remained undefeated on the season. Zhang avenged last year's 3-1 loss to Northwestern's Ed Gadient, with a 9-5, 7-9, 9-7, 9-7 thriller in the weekend's fea­tured match. Jose Palomo, Ben O'Brien, Randy Rainosek, and loves to punish people." 
Reuland would be a mar­quee recruit for the Irish if he chooses them over other schools recruiting him such as UCLA, USC, Miami (Fla.) and Stanford. He is 6-foot-6, 240 pounds and has a 4. 70 time in the 40-yard dash. 
"I don't know if he's the biggest recruit [Notre Dame is after]," Frank said. "I think IIrish running back verbal commitment] James Aldridge is a pretty big name. But Heuland is probably one of the top tight ends in the country." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
Alex Forshaw, Leigh Chapman, and Chris Schalx all dropped 3-0 matches to the No. 27 ranked Wildcats. 
Zhang defeated Purdue's Justin Woo, 9-3, 10-9, 9-4, and Penn State's Aditya Shastri, 9­6, 9-4, 9-6, to highlight the weekend. The Irish competed without their No. 2 and No. 4 players, Javier Palomo and Phil Moss for the weekend, and starters Mike McConnell and Eric Sabelhaus are abroad this semester. This tournament was an opportunity for newer players to move up in the line­up and improve their games against experienced oppo­nents. A full squad will look to reverse these decisions after semester break. 
Tourney 
continued from page 24 

assuming we win and move on to the next round," Dalby said. 
Western Illinois finished the season with a 6-9-4 record. The Leathernecks captured the Mid-Con Conference title for the sec­ond straight season with a 4­3 overtime victory over Oakland Nov. 13. 
Western Illinois is one of only two teams in the NCAA tournament with a losing record. Nonetheless, the Irish expect the Leathernecks to pose a stiff challenge. 
"I know they don't have a winning record, but they won their conference tournament so they are a team that's coming in on a hot streak," Dalby said. 
Seven teams from Big East conference made the tourna­ment. The only conference with higher representation in the tournament is the ACC with nine teams in the field of 48. Playing in such a com­petitive conference coupled with Notre Dame's tough non-conference schedule should benefit the Irish in the tournament. 
"I think this team has faced a lot of things that other Notre Dame teams of the past two years haven't faced," Dalby said. "I think our schedule helped us get into the tournament and hopefully it's going to help us stay in the tournament." 
If Notre Dame defeats Western Illinois Friday, it will then take on Indiana in Bloomington on Tuesday, Nov. 22. The Hoosiers, who have won the past two NCAA championships, enter the tournament as the No. 3 seed. The Irish lost 3-0 to Indiana at Alumni Field Oct. 26. 
Notre Dame is anxious to the start the tournament after an up and down regular season. 
"I think we are all excited and looking forward to it," Dalby said. "It doesn't matter what happened in the past. We are in the tournament and hopefully we can make a run." 
Notes: 

+ Three Irish players were recognized by the Big East coaches when the conference awards were handed out Friday. Dalby and junior mid­fielder Ian Etherington were first team all-Big East selec­tions, while sophomore for­ward Joe Lapira was named to third team all-Big East. 
Dalby, who was unani­mously chosen to the first team, felt honored by the selection, but said he was happier for his teammates. 
"ILapiral has the potential to be offensive player of the year next year," Dalby said. "And I think IEtherington] has done a great job this year so far. 
"Ilopef'ully both those guys ean really eome through in the postseason because we are going to need both of those guys to bP big." 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 
NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick fleece coat is perfect for winter. Ask any yak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 
~ 
DUTPDST Hours: Mon.-Fri.: 10:00 am-9:00pm
~ 
Sat.: 1o:oo am -B:oo pm Cold Weather Experts Sun.: 12:oo pm -6:oopm 
\~ 

Tuesday, November 15, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 














YOU MUST BE 21 YEARS OF AGE WITH AVALID ID TO CONSUME ALCOHOL AT THESE ESTABLISHMENTS. 
"Time Out" 
SP.ORTS BAR
(~ 

3:OOpm til close • 7 days a week

L 
[J
Monday: Karaoke Night, 
B 
$2.50 House Special 
Sludelll Niglll TIJund.Y, 


Doors open @ 1 0 Tuesday: 

ROCK N ROLL AT ITS FINEST! 
$2 Cover Charge with Student ID or $5 without $1.50 Domestic Bottles 

7:00pm til 2:00am Fri. & Sat.
$1.50 Domestic Drafts $2.00 Wells 

52565 State Road 933 North
$1.50 Well Drinks South Bend, IN 46637
$1 .50 Domestic Bottles Wednesday: Located in North Village Mall (behind Ponderosa) Food Served All Night -Music by DJ-CK1

Trivia Night, 222 SOUTH MICHIGAN ST, SOUTH BEND 

Daily Drink Specials· Sandwiches -Darts -Pool Live Music Every Weekend $3.00 Pitchers 
......,....,...fIubfe"er.biz 

Watch the Irish on the 106" Projection TVThursday: 
Must be 21 years old with valid ID to enter $2.00 Imports 
MADISC)N ()YST'ER BAR

Sunday: $10.00 Domestic Buckets 
Kitchen Open Every Day Daily Grill Specials: 
Open Sundays 
M-Th 4pm-3am Fri 11 am-3am Sat 4pm-3am 
from 6-12
Sun 11 am-12midnight 
574.234.4015 



IRISH PUB 

le EST. 1990 .r. e...-.ue ...k-u :E'K<4 6M4 ~ 
TUESDAYS AND 
'IIIUHSDAYS: 

2046 South Bend Ave Across from Martins Plaza 272·1766 
$3.00 PITCHERS 
$I .00 DOMESTIC 

MONDAY THURSDAY 
All food 1/2 price, $10.00 buckets, Every Thursday Private Party for Monday Night Football on HDTV NO, HC and SMC students 2nd Penny night. 
DHAFTS 

TUESDAY 1¢ wells and drafts, ND penny night, $1 off cover with OJ plays hits all night long student 10, I;)J all night, 
$ 1.00 CANS EVEHY 
NO COVEH! 

1 ¢ wells and drafts FRIDAY OJ till 3:00a.m.,
DAY OF SELECT 

WEDNESDAY pre-game warm up 
Live trivia night with cash prizes 
and free drinks, 1 to 8 people SATURDAY 
per team, 8:00p.m. to 10:00 p.m. Game day -Go IRISH. 
Defending champs: NO law OJ after games, 
Legal Eagles. 69¢ bitty burger, celebrate victory and boogie 
49¢ wings, $10.00 buckets till dawn. ESPN game plan 
DOMESTICS 
SUNDAY $1.50 burgers, dogs, fries and bottles. NFL Sunday tickets • 14 screens. 

PLEASE DRINK 







$1.25 dogs

RESPONSIBLY. 

EVERY WEDNESDAY 
EVERY THURSDAY
$1.25 drafts 

$2 
ANYdrink
ALL DAY EVERY DAY 
in the house!! 






75<t

10°/o Discount 
Well Drinks 

OPEN MIC NIGHT!!


w/ Student ID 

DON'T DRINK 
$2 
ENORMOUS 

Come play or sing on Basket of Fries 
stage with our entertainers 
AND DRIVE. 
1733 South Bend Ave. 574.277.2527 





page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 15, 2005 
ing the Irish down, rating Notre Dame at No. 13.

Quinn 
+ Quinn has been named to continued from page 24 the Walter Camp Football 
Foundation's "Players to believes Notre Dame needs to Watch" list for the founda­make in its final two regular tion's 2005 Player of the Year season games against award. Quinn is one of four Syracuse and Stanford. quarterbacks on the 10-player 
"We're sitting with a record list, joining UCLA's Drew of two losses," Olson, USC's Quinn said Matt Leinart referring to a and Texas'
"We want to be

44-41 loss to Vince Young. Michigan State nitpicky about things. USC running 
on Sept. 17 and Obviously it's a good back Heggie 
a 34-31 defeat Bush also made
thing, I think, ifyou're

by No. 1 USC the list, along on Oct. 15. talking about what with UCLA run­
"When it comes you are trying to look ning back 
down to it, Maurice Drew,
at as your goals and

[Irish] coach Louisville [Charlie] Weis objectives. " defensive end has ingrained Elvis Dumervil, into our heads Washington
Brady Quinn

that idea of State running
Irish quarterback

perfection -back Jerome where you Harrison, Ohio want to go into State line­every game and come out vic­backer A.J. Hawk and Penn torious." State linebacker Paul 
Notre Dame came out victo­Posluszny. The winner will be rious this past weekend, announced Dec. 8 at 6 p.m. on thumping Navy 42-21 behind ESPN. four touchdown passes from Quinn. But the junior quarter­Contact Mike Gilloon at Irish quarterback Brady Quinn hands off to running back Darius Walker during Saturday's 42-21 back instead talked Monday mgilloon@nd.edu victory over Navy. Quinn finished with four touchdowns and an interception in the game. 

about the interception he threw against the Midshipmen and the mistakes the offense made. 
"Our goal this past weekend was to not have any three­and-outs, and I think we found ourselves punting one time and not converting on a fourth down," Quinn said. "I think that's how we look at every game. We want to be nitpicky about things. Obviously it's a good thing, I think, if you're talking about what you are trying to look at as your goals and objectives." 
One of the goals Quinn set for Saturday's game against Syracuse (1-8) was sending the Irish seniors out on a suc­cessful note in their last game at Notre Dame Stadium. 
"You develop such close bonds," Quinn said. "This year, you almost feel like we're a family. You realize how impor­tant it really is when you want to send those guys out on the right note. The guys who will be playing their last home game in this stadium, I think, will be our biggest motiva­tion." 
And despite Syracuse's los­ing record and No. 6 Notre Dame being an overwhelming favorite, Quinn believes the Irish will still need to make strides in practice this week to be fully prepared for the Orange. 
"There's a ton of improve­ment [we need to make]," Quinn said. "When it comes down to it, fundamentals you can always improve on. Finding ways to make things happen when maybe you're at a standstill." 
Notes: 
+ Notre Dame occupies the No. 9 spot in the latest Bowl Championship Series (BCS) standings released Monday. The Irish are sandwiched between No. 8 Alabama and No. 10 Oregon. Southern California maintained the top spot in the poll with Texas, Miami (Fla.), Penn State, LSU, Virginia Tech and Ohio State rounding out the top seven, respectively. Two of the three polls used as part of the BCS rankings formula -the Harris Interactive poll and the USA Today coaches poll have Notre Dame at Nos. 6 and 7. respec­tively. However, the composite computer rankings are bring-





any ideas? 
apply for the committee 

submit a design 
positions available: vice-president 

drop-off proposed artwork in the Student Activities
marketing coordinator 

Office in 315 LaFortune. Artwork should be in an
unveiling coordinator 

envelope with name and contact information
web designer apply online at http://theshirt.nd.edu/2006 application deadline is Wednesday, Nov. 23 

the deadline to submit artwork is Friday, Dec. 2 

Tuesday, November 15, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS

JOCKULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 
HOW '{OU ~ ~01, _,..HI'S "\"OWN 
SU~l:' IS UC:l~1 ~ 
ANt:> (CI...'C>! \\A,I-\1'1! 
I NE-\JI:::~ 6EI 
OI.A"'f lo-\t;.f'..E 1, . : \ .. 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
"''oW \'";' soe~~. \ t:':>l t:> NT RE" Al..l e:e:... 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DAHEA 
riJ I I 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SNABI 
± 
www.jumble.com 
SHAWCE J 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the .surprise answer, as 1 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
ri cJ 

[I I JA "[I I)"[ I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: THINK MUSIC EMPIRE ROSARY Yesterday's Answer·. 
What the skin doctor gave the golfer ­
A "RASH" COMMENT 


CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 36 Wretched 62 Medal giver Mrs. Loopner 37 Longstanding 63 Naps, for player 19-Across senores 7 Tells a bedtime 64 Ms. Conehead
opener story 40 Kuwaiti leaders: player 14 Free drinks 
Var. set-up 41 Take a swing 
DOWN 16 Mr. Blues player 42 Old Venetian 
1 Police 17 Tickler of the official 2 armsivories 43 Announcer for 3 Genuine 

18 Figured out, as 19-Across secret writing 44 Org. for 4 Old cable TV inits.
19 Show that Mariners debuted 45 Lachesis and 5 Nile birds 10/11/1975, for Clotho, in myth 
6 Foulshort 46 Ground breaker 7 Ms. Roseanne20 Buffet table 47 Ottoman ruler Roseannadannaheater player48 University mil.

22 Hail Mary, e.g. 
group 8 Keep an_ 23 King, in Cadiz (watch)
52 Terrible trial 

24 Bard's nightfall 9 Dog breeder's
54 Network of 

25 Wearies assn.
19-Across 28 Syr. neighbor 10 Withdraw from,
57 Mistakenly 29 Weekend as a case
59 New York's Update anchor Bridge 11 Kind of water 
34 Les Etats--61 Samurai tailor 12 Sailing ropes 33 Actress Sommer 46 Big to-do 51 Vineyards of 35 Literary piece player 13 Bookie's figure and others high quality
47 Von 
15 Hwy. 35 Surgeon's 

Richthofen's 53 Biblical suffix ANSWER TO PREVIOUS P.,..,Uz.,...,z,...,L..,.,E"T-="' 21 Looked like locales, quickly title 
54 Benchmark
36 Dripping
38 To and 55 La Tar Pits 39 Collar 49 R.E.M.'s "The
~~=+:~ 25 Kentucky Derby 56 Foot ailment 
Love"
drink 44 Mr. Escuela 
58 String after Q
player
26 True inner self 50 Prefix with 45 Catlike conference 60 Close a show
27 Springboard performer .;,;..,~~+.+.:-f-:.;..tll!~:+;,+:-8 28 Phrase of For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a commitment credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 29 Intimidate Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
30 The best of Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000times 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).31 Under way 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 32 Power glitch solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _______________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS llAY: Travis Barker, 30; Yanni, 51; Prince Charles, 57; Elena Gomez, 20 
Happy Birthday: Let's get things straight this year. No more confusion about what you should or shouldn't do. Make your choice and just do it. You may bring other people or ideas into the equation along the way, but the main issue here is to stop being afraid of failure and focus on being productive. Your numbers are 4, I 2, 22, 23, 36, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Make this a day that counts. Do something that will help you get ahead professionally or increase your earning power. You will have an opportunity to take care ofany pressing legal, financial or health matters.•• TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You won't find it easy to deal with emotional concerns about kids, elders or even your partner. Disagreeing will not resolve 
-
anything; take a direct approach and offer something in exchange. • • • 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone from your past may grab your interest 
again. Be sure this person isn't carrying a lot of baggage or still involved with 
someone else. Make sure any change is your choice, not based on someone else's 
desires. ••• 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will get a big surprise today. Your chance 
to do something really exciting depends on your ability to give in and let yourself 
go. Now is the time to make up your mind once and tor all about what you really 
want and go after it. • • • • 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will be tempted to·ovcrspcnd. Back up and consider 
the bills you have to pay. Someone is likely to bug you or stretch your patience. 
Don't let anger get the better of you. • • 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can make this a very special day if you do 
things a little bit differently. Change should be high on your list. Consider what's 
not working in your life and do something about it. • ••• • 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Pay closer attention to your investments and personal 
money matters. A contract may be causing you some grief. Minor health problems 
will flare up if you let yourself get rundown. Someone may be a burden. ••• 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Put yourself in the spotlight, and be confident 
that you've done your research and will outshine anyone who questions your 
thoughts. An opportunity to make a career move is apparent. Don't waffic; f(Jllow 
through with confidence. ••• 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Put everything into work, making money 
and doing your best to get ahead. Try not to change your mind too much or you 
will confuse the people around you. Sudden changes may take place concerning 
your personal life. ••• 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will be industrious, and travel will be 
productive. A trend that is brought to your attention will be a wise bet. A 
partnership will develop with someone in whom you have an interest. • • • • • 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be careful how you treat the ones you love. 
There is a good chance you may be disappointed or let someone down by not 
following through with a promise. Offer to help others and you will feel better 
about yourself. •• 

PISCES (Feh. 19-March 20): You will have a chance to do something totally 
unique. Your attitude and unpredictability will make you irresistible today. Spend 
time with someone you really care about and your relationship will grow 
stronger.•••• 

Birthday Bahy: You are emotional, caring and true to yourself. You have a 
vivid imagination and a colorful way ofexpressing yourself. You are industrious 
and willing to help those in need. 

Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
<. 
THE OBSERVER 





PORTS
Tuesday, November 15, 2005 page 24 
FOOTBALL 
No ex-'Cuse-es 
Irish quarterback not looking past Syracuse to future bowl game 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
Brady Quinn just had to laugh. "Is there a bowl you'd rather play in?" asked a reporter. 
"No, the only thing I'm wor­ried about right now is just Syracuse," Quinn responded. 
"Any thoughts on possibly playing Ohio State [in a bowl)?" asked the same reporter. 
"Right now I'm just focusing on Syracuse," Quinn said with a chuckle. 
Quinn is not letting the media know if he has any intentions of looking forward to the possibility of Notre Dame's first Bowl Championship Series [BCS] appearance since 2000. 
The Irish quarterback and offensive captain instead focused on the progress he 
see QUINN/page 22 

-

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Defense strong all year 
Notre Dame gave up one shot in Sunday's win against MS U 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish do not give up many shots on goal, and they like it that way. 
In Notre Dame's 3-0 win against Michigan State Sunday, the team only gave up one shot on goal, and that didn't come until late in the second half. 
Michigan State was in Notre Dame's zone with less than two minutes left when Spartans forward Emily Weigand found herself in front of the net. Weigand fired a shot at Irish goaltender Lauren Karas, who dove and deflected the ball. 
The Irish defense quickly took control. 
"We don't want to give up that goal," defender Christie Shaner. "It was a pride issue. Especially with one minute left in the game, that's when you gotta stay focused. It's a 90­
see SHANER!page 19 

MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish earn berth in NCAAs 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team breathed a little eas­ier Monday after learning it had been included in the 48­team NCAA Tournament field. With a 10-7-3 record overall and a 6-4-1 conference mark, the Irish were on the bubble heading into the 5 p.m. unveiling of the bracket on ESPNEWS. 
"It certainly was a relief," junior Irish captain Greg Dalby said. "But I think, at the end of the day, I would have been really surprised if we didn't get in." 
Notre Dame will host Western Illinois Friday at 5 
p.m. at Alumni Field. The Irish are excited to be playing at home in the first round. 
"I think us getting a game under our belt at home will definitely give us confidence, 
see RECRUITS/page 20 
fOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Weis, coaching staff closing in on Reuland 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
Unlike Notre Dame's game against USC on Oct. 15, there were not many recruits mak­ing official visits to campus to see the Irish beat Navy 42-21 Saturday. Almost 30 players made official or unofficial vis­its the weekend of Notre Dame's 34-31 loss to the No. 1 Trojans. 
Only two players trekked to South Bend on official visits this past weekend, tight end Konrad Reuland and line­backer Morrice Richardson. But according to Mike Frank of Irisheyes.com, the two high school seniors could be sub­stantial additions to an already strong Notre Dame recruiting class. 
Reuland is one of the coun­try's top recruits, as Scout.com has given five out of a possible five stars and lists the Mission Viejo, Calif. product as the No. 2 tight end in the nation. 
"I think Notre Dame did a 
really good job on Reuland," Frank said. "He's going to go visit Stanford this weekend but I think Notre Dame has a great shot to land him as well." 
The Irish have 19 verbal commitments so far this sea­son, though no one can sign an official letter of intent until February. Assuming all the verbal commitments sign let­ters of intent, Notre Dame has between six and eight scholar­ships still remaining to give out. 
"When you get down to this point the spots start filling up," Frank said. "I think a lot of players start feeling the pressure that if they don't do something soon they won't have a spot on the list." 
Richardson, the other visitor to campus last weekend, is very close to committing to the Irish, Frank said. 
"I expect him to do that here probably this week," Frank said. "He'll probably choose 
see REULAND/page 20 

en 
MLB
ND VOLLEYBALL 
NFL 

NCAA BASKETBAll 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
LLI

1-
c.,) Notre Dame signed 
Yankees slugger. Alex 
The Bengals are 

Temple head coach 
USC and Texas are 
Duke 64 
z five recruits for its 2010 
Rodriguez edged Red 
happy the Colts 

Don Chaney is going for 
most likely guaranteed 
Boston U 47 
class. It is one of the 
Sox designated hitter 
remained unbeaten for 

his SOOth career win 
a trip to the Rose Bowl 
J.J. Redick scored 19



a: :3 
David Ortiz in AL MVP
stronger groups in 
its matchup with 

against Navy. 
if they win out. 
points, in the No. 1 Blue 
c:l 
University history. 
voting. 
Indianapolis next 
Devils win. 
ca: 
Sunday. 

= 
a. ti 
page 19 
page 18 
page 17 
page 16 

page 16 
page 14

en 






