-----------------------------~--------~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
j \. Crime and '"··lJ 
_ :\. A six-part series on discipline at Notre Dame (j-
Notre Dame rules, regulations stir discontent 

h'ditor's Note: In order to offer an honest, candid portrayal of discipline at Notre Dame. The Ohser11er granted anonymity to several sources who will appear in this series. The Observer felt it was essential to include these sources' perspectives in a fair, well-rounded report, hut they would only speak on the condi­tion of anonymity because they feared repercussions from the University. 
By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Editor 
There's dysfunetion in the Notre Dame family. 
A buzzing undereurrent of frustration and confusion regarding the University's disei­plinary proeedures nows from student to student, puzzling administrators. 
Sometimes the resentment is 


University reduces seats for students 
NO will allot 3,000 spots at final two pep rallies 

Students attend a 2002 football pep rally In the Joyce Center. New ticketing rules allow for 3,000 student seats at today's event. 
By KATIE PERRY A-.istant News Editor 
J>uc to the recent dedine in student attondance, today's foot­ball pep rally will guarantee designated seating for approxi­mately 3,000 students-just half of was allotted for students at thn last pep rally. 
Thn nnw pep rally ticket dis­tribution system. which debuted Nov. 4, allowed for a specific amount of student scats and n~quirPd non-students to wait in line to obtain a ticket prior to tlw nwnt. The number of avail­abln general seating tickets was ealeulated by subtraeting the estimated number of students from the 10,000 seats available in the Joyce Center for the rally. 

Problems arose after the esti­mated number of students proved to be a gross overesti­mate of the actual student attendance. Consequently, some Irish fans were turned away dflspite sections left vacant by students who opted not to attend. 
Student body vice president Lizzi Shappell said the decision made this week to minimize seating in student sections to 3,000 was based on attendance at the Tennessee pep rally, whieh garnered 2.400 students. 
"While this [new] number 
see RALLIES/page 8 so strong it colors a student's entire Notre Dame experienee. 

"This isn't the Notre Dame that the alumni talk about," said a male snnior who wished to remain anonymous. "I don't want to say it's absolutely terri­ble. 
"But had I not gone abroad, done Bengal Bouts or met peo­pln at work. I would have said, 'I wish I went to another sehool."' 
Notre Dame's rules and regu­lations -explieitly outlined in duLac, the University's oflieial handbook -are simultaneously eontentious to some students and foreign to others, whose only experiences with diseipline are second-hand stories spread by word of mouth. 
"There's urban legends, or lore, that goes around campus," Associate Vice President of Student Affairs Bill Kirk said. 
There's also disillusionment, a sentiment shared by a surpris-

Pangborn rector is one of a kind 
First blackfemale dorm leader refers to experience as 'history in the making' 
ingly large number of students that does not always triekle up to the Main Building, where administrators are quick to praise Notre Dame's residential community and the support -if also eonstraint-it provides undergraduates. 
"I think that students. gener­ally speaking, respect I the University's rules], and they understand them, and they ehoose to live on campus ... We're ehoek full. We don't have any space in the residence halls," Kirk said. "I think that students like campus life. They enjoy being on campus in the residenee hall, in part because there's a sense of order and dis­cipline." 
Many students do support Notre Dame's unique residential system -a focal point in Admissions Office brochures and a campus tour must-men­
see DISCIPLINE/page 9 
By KATE ANTONACCI Associate News Editor 
Kuukua Yomckpe answered two ealls when she took the job as rector of Pangborn Hall -a call back into working ministry with college students, and a liter­al eall from Sister Jean Lenz, assistant viee president of student all'airs, urging her to complete a rector applica­tion. 
Yompke had been working as an editor for Chase Manhattan and was "quite happy" with the 8 a.m. to 5 
p.m. nature of the job. On the recommendation of a friend who had attended 
see RECTOR/ page 6 


Pangborn rector Kuukua Yomekpe, originally from Ghana, is the first black female to hold a rector position at the University. 


Irish-Navy ties run deep 
ed between the thme pownrhous­es during the Knute Rockne era. 
A pair of Navy-Notre Dame football tickets is buried in the cornerstone of the Hockne Memorial. and the campus power plant still uses two World War II era diesnl generators from Navy submarines. 
Thfl rivalry datos back to 1913, when a fortunate opening in Army's schedule allowed the Irish 
see HISTORY/page 4 

By KATIE STUHLDREHER 
News Writer 
Saturday's home football game against the U.S. Naval Academy will continue one of the longest­running college football rivalries in the nation, one that began in 1927 and initiated a tradition that lives on via annual matehups. 
But these two respected institu­tions share mueh more than a yearly tbotball game. 
One look around Notre Dame's campus will reveal its deep ties to the U.S. Navy. 
The Rockne See Also 
Memorial bears the "Campus seal of the 
anticipates

N a v a I 
traditional

Academy­along with matchup" that of West 
page3

Point -to eommcmo­rate the great rivalries that exist­
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, November 11, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Advice you should 
•

Ignore 
We all have friends and relatives who give bad advice. I've been lucky enough to get some horrible advice over the past few years, and this is some of the worst of it. 
"Always expect the worst case sce­
Sam Pandolfo 
nario, and then you won't ever be disappointed." This is sort of like 
Advertising
saying, "the glass 
Executive
was half full until you knocked it on the floor and stepped on it." 
Despite the fact that this statement makes logical sense, this is probably the single most pessimistic quip I've ever come across, next to things I've heard from ex-girlfriends during the breakup process. If someone tells you this, they probably hate you. 
"Set really easy goals in life so you always feel accomplished." This is a guaranteed recipe for deep, clinical depression. It's kind of like writing things you've already done on a to-do list -well, let's be honest, we all do that. But seriously, how can you ever accomplish anything if everything you want to do is easy? 
"Let your life be a study in the path of least resistance." I actually went through a period, circa winter of fresh­man year, where this was pretty much my motto. I slept until four in the after­noon and the only class I went to was volleyball-sort of like Matt Leinart but without the added benefit of hang­ing out with Jessica Simpson. If you come away with anything from this article, let it be abhorrence for sloth. 
"Never confuse your GPA with your self-worth." I actually agreed with this one until I realized that no on hires people with a 2.6 GPA. So for the per­son who told me this I ask one thing: What is someone worth when they are $70,000 in debt, mowing grass for a living and living with their parents? While I don't fit this criteria exactly, I must admit that GPA and self-worth may indeed be correlated to some extent. 
"Just be yourself and you can never make a bad impression." OK, I'm sorry but this just isn't true. I know plenty of people that would make the worst impression possible by being theselves. Call me overly critical, but if you gen­uinely want to spend afternoons sitting on the quad, drinking an adult bever­age, while attaching a pornographic magazine to a fishing pole and harass­ing unsuspecting campus visitors when they try to pick it up and you simulta­neously pull it away, laughing and yelling "Pervert!" you probably should­n't tell that to-oh, I don't know-an interviewer. It's just bad politics. 
If you've heard any of these before, I'm sorry to conjure up any bad feel­ings you may have. I had to find out that these are BS the hard way, so for anyone who's a stranger to these awful pieces of advice you are oh-so-very welcome. 
Contact Sam Pandolfo at spandolj@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTION 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mis­take, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT HAVE YOUR EXPERIENCES WITH RESLIFE BEEN LIKE? 


Christine Scacco  Mike Hopkinson  JJ Lyphout  Matt Belton  Kevin Marvinac  Robbie Bernardin  
sophomore McGlinn  freshman Zahm  sophomore Keough  sophomore Keough  freshman Siegfried  freshman Siegfriend  
"What's  "/ hate ResLife.  "ResLife fined  "ResLife fined  "None, I swear  "None to speak  






... nope. 0if." 
IN BRIEF 

Major Jason Frei will be the guest speaker at the Veteran's Day Recognition Ceremony will be held today at 4 p.m. at the Clarke Memorial Fountain between LaFortune Student Center and llesburgh Library. 
As part pf the Saturday Scholar Series, professors H. Scott Appleby, Lawrence Cunningham and Father Richard McBrien will speak at the lecture "A Change at the Top: Pope Benedict XVI." The event will take place at 9:30 a.m. Saturday in the Snite Museum of Art. 
Patrick Toole, vice presi­dent of business transforma­tion for IBM's Enterprise on Demand Transformation and Information, will deliver a talk in the Distinguished Engineering Lecture Series at 12:50 p.m. Monday in the DeBartolo Hall auditorium. 
Quinlan Terry, a leading figure in the revival of classi­cal architecture, will present the 2005 Richard H. Driehaus Prize lecture at 7 
p.m. Monday in the Snite Museum of Art. The lecture, "Designing and Building a Sustainable Future," is free and open to the public. 
An examination of the vari­ous aspects of literary art in the 1960s will be the focus of a two-day lecture series, "Artworlds of the Sixties," Monday and Tuesday in McKenna Hall beginning at 4:30p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


HIGH LOW 

ResLife?" Wait, ifthey see me$4oofor me$4oofor this will they purchasing purchasing ResLife me $6oo worth of $6oo worth of again?" Corona with Corona with 
,

this guy. , this guy. 
Polite robber hits 29th bank in four months 
TORONTO -A Canadian bank robber, who politely presents a hold-up note on a recipe card, has hit 29 banks in four months, police said on Thursday. 
The unidentified man is the main suspect behind two bank heists in Toronto on Wednesday and 27 other robberies in the region since August. 
The suspect waits his turn in line and, once at the teller, quietly makes his intentions known on a recipe card. He has never shown a gun. 
The clean-shaven robber, who looks around 30 years old, usually wears a base­ball cap and sometimes sun­glasses. 
"[The police are] very con­fident something will hap­pen shortly," said Toronto police spokeswoman Wendy Drummond. 
"They're pulling out all the stops here," she said. 
She said the new confi­dence stems from better views of the suspect on sur­veillance tapes of his latest robberies. 
Jailed man wins school board election 
RIVERSIDE, Calif. -The winner of a school board election didn't campaign, attend forums or even go to any school board meetings before the vote -because he was in jail. 
Randy Logan Hale won 831 votes in Tuesday's elec­tion, securing one of three open seats on the Romoland School District Board in a community about 70 miles north of San Diego. 
"This is wild, he'll be glad," said his wife, Penny. 
Hale, 40, was returned to prison in September for vio­lating his parole on 1998 convictions for spousal abuse and drug possession, the California Institution for Men in Chino said, and is due to be released Feb. 15. He declared his candidacy in August. 

Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
.... 
<C 
(,) 




.9 HIGH 58 HIGH 61 LOW 43 LOW 48 

36 32 


FriJay, November I I, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Catnpus anticipates traditional tnatchup 
By MOLLY LAMPING 
News Writer 
As a school d11oply rootod in the values of tradition. Notre Damn's on-campus atmosphere this wo11kllnd will be one of exdtmnont when tho Irish take on Navy as part of tho historical rivalry bdwenn the two tnams, studnnts said. 
Not only do Notre Dame and the Midshipmen of the United Statns Naval Academy have the longest eontinuous intnrsectional rivalry in thn country -a mark snt at 79 games -but the Irish also hold the NCAA record for most consecutive wins against 01111 opponont, with 41 wins in a row versus Navy. 
Studmtts said the streak is a main draw for tlw matchup. 
"I just want to keep the streak alivn," freshman Clare Heintz said. 
Navy's last win in the serins canw in 1963, when llnisman Trophy winnnr Hoger Staubach liftml the Midshipnwn to victory :~5-14 in Notrn Dame Stadium. 
Although Navy is unranked in all major polls, the Irish arn not taking this game lightly -and nnithnr arn some students. 
"I think that this will bn a fun ganw to watch, as always," frnshman I>rnw Tuckett said. 
Somn studonts said dospite the storind rivalry of the two teams, fan nnnrgy will probably be lownr than in the caso of more hypnd-up games this season. 
"The Notrn Dame/Navy gamn brings a lot of tradition to eam­pus, which always makes for a good match-up," freshman Katie Mdnernny said. "IButl nothing can possibly live up to thn USC game as far as nxcitement goes." 
Freshman Emily Perry said she "cannot wait" to cheer the Irish on to victory Saturday ­even if her classmates don't share in her excitemnnt. 
"Other students are not quite as excited for this !weekend], as the Irish have already taken on all of their ranked opponents this season," she said. 
Lackluster expectations will cause some students to skip the game altogether. 
"I traded in my ticket and decided not to go because I don't think that this is even going to be close," freshman Jessica Billings said. 
Despite the varied levels of anticipation, students also expressed respect for Navy team members as American military personnel. 
"The thing that I love about the Navy game is that, no matter what happens Ion the field], you know they are fighting for a good cause," junior Melissa Chandler said. "Even though we're playing !against] them on the field. we are always on their side." 
Contact Molly Lamping at last­namlampiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Speakers address eating disorders 
Specialists, students gather to discuss nutrition and body image 
By JACLYNNE MADDEN News Writer 
Eating Disorder Awareness Week came to a dose Thursday after several students and fac­ulty members participated in a fishbowl discussion entitled. "360°: Perspectives on Eating Disorders" at North Dining Hall. 
Valerie Staples, the eating disorders specialist at the University Counseling Center, addressed the troubles students can encounter when deciding whether to con­front a friend about their eating 
disorder. "People get very permeates that "People get good at hiding you should be in very good at hid­shape yourself." 
their disorder. " 
ing their disor­Heather der," Staples said. Rakoczy, Director "However, some­Valerie Staples of the Gender times their eating disorders Helations Center, behavior said just because
specialist
becomes so auto­matic that they are not even aware of what they are doing . . . They need to hear that you are really worried about what is going on and that you are noticing a problem." 
Sophomore speaker Erin Hankins said she helped her friends through their disorders even though she couldn't always relate to their experi­ences. 
"I realized that the one thing I could do for them was Iiston," she said. "It is really hard to help someone through this, but the best thing I know I can do is listen." 
Steve Tortorello, a sopho­more, addressed male issues and said eating disorders aren't limited to women. 
"This is such a physically fit campus and so many people are varsity athletes," he said. "If you go to play shirts versus skins at the Roek, and five guys take their shirts off. three of them look like He-Man. If you are not physically fit. that can be very intimidat­ing and then a sort of mentality 
someone may be 
bulimic or 

anorexic does not mean they have the same char­acteristics for their disorder as someone else with the same problem. 
"If we assume that every case of eating disorder is exactly the same, that every person experi­ence and symptoms are the same, then the way we address their problems will be the same," she said. "Each particu­lar story requires a particular response and we noed to take into l~areful eonsidnr that what we hear in orw easo in not uni­versal." 
Junior Ali Wishon -organiz­er of the Awareness Week and who suffered from an eating disorder herself-said there is also a lingering problem of eat­ing disorders being the popular puneh line to jokes in our socie­ty. 
"Every time I hear someone 
·make a joke or continue to per­petuate the culture of unattain­able beauty. it makes it dinicult for me to stay in recovery," she said. "This is also something we need to be concerned about because it makes people who do have a disorder less likely to speak up and admit to their problem bncause they feel like they are going to be the butt of the joke." 
Speakers hoped those in attendance would take away valuable information from the discussion. 
"I hope that people leave tho discussion having learned vital information about eating disor­ders. the contributing factors, how to help a friend, the spneilks of the Notro Dame cul­ture that make eating disorders so prevalent. and will mntinue the discussion in their dorms [and I with friends," Wishon said. 
Contact Jadynne Madden jmadden1 @nd.edu 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 11, 2005 
Saint Mary's seniors to host 'Navy Dance' 
By LIZ HARTER 
News Writer 
The Sisters of the Holy Cross and the United States Navy have long had a close connection, so it was only natural for them con­vince Saint Mary's to host a party for the midshipmen visiting the area for Saturday's traditional football game. 
The relationship stems back to the Civil War, when the Sisters served as naval nurses. Two sis­ters living in the campus convent served in the Navy prior to join­ing the Order. 
Sister Rose Anne Schultz, vice president for mission, said the subject of a party was brought up two years ago when Notre Dame played the Naval Academy at home. 
Sister Jean Louise Forkin and Patricia Heiberger -directors of the confirmation program for midshipmen at the Naval Academy -contacted Schultz and Assistant Director of Student Activities Francis Bruder to see if the administration and students approved the idea. 
"This is not a frivolous thing," Schultz said. "This has been planned and communicated between the schools for a couple of years now." 
The Navy drum and bugle corps, cheerleaders and glee club will arrive in South Bend today and make up the majority of mid­shipmen attending the dance. 
Schultz said while many stu­dents from the Naval Academy will be in town for the game, not every midshipman is able to attend the historical matchup this weekend. Those allowed to travel were chosen based on their aca­demic standing at the Academy. 
Senior class president Lauren Condon said everyone was excit­ed when the idea was first pre­sented to the board. The board unanimously approved the event and eagerly anticipates the opportunity to host the approxi­mately 200 midshipmen, senior Lynn Sikora said. 
Senior Meghan Daley said although she can't go to the dance, she wishes she could, as she is "a big fan of men in uni­form -for patriotic reasons of course." 
Lee ann Godfrey, Jackie Paunicka and Monica Beil planned the event, which will take place tonight from 9 p.m. to 12 a.m. in the Saint Mary's Student Center Lounge. 
Though the dance was initially for seniors only, Condon said the first 50 juniors to purchase a $5 ticket to the event can attend. 
Tickets are on sale today until 4 
p.m. for $3, with the cost increas­ing to $5 when purchased at the door. Students are allowed to bring friends who do not attend Saint Mary's and dates as long as they too are juniors and seniors in college. 
Contact Liz Harter at lharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
grams in the nation at Notre Notre Dame student and aviation Dame in 1941. electrician mate E3 airman in the
History 

Between 1942 and 1946, U.S. Navy, said the rivalry is root­approximately 12,000 officers ed in respect. 
continued from page 1 

completed their training at Notre "Lots of current football rival­to play their first big game Dame and served overseas. ries are all about screaming for against a national football giant. Civilian students agreed to dou­blood and hating the other team," Notre Dame's impressive win led ble-bunk in already cramped he said. "But Notre Dame and to an annual meeting between dorm rooms to make room for Navy are so classy that this can the two teams. the influx of officer candidates. be a fun rivalry based on mutual 
In 1926, Rockne's Irish dropped The tradition of training naval respect." only one game in an unlikely loss officers has remained constant Neither side is afraid of a little to Carnegie Tech -but Rockne over the years at Notre Dame. friendly competition, however. was not present at that game. "Other than the Naval When asked which team he Instead, he was in Chicago Academy, Notre Dame has com­would root for on Saturday, Todd­watching Navy win the national missioned more officers in the Smith said there was no question championship over Army and Navy than any other school," said -"Irish blood is thicker than setting his sights on challenging Commander Jeff Morris, execu­seawater." the new heavyweight. tive officer of NROTC. "That's a "The long-standing military 
That spring, the Naval proud accomplishment and a relationship between the Navy Academy invited Rockne to be long legacy of academic and pro­and Notre Dame as well as the the keynote speaker at its annual fessional achievement." long rivalry between the two foot­N Club dinner, thus melding the Junior NROTC student Victoria ball teams leads to a mutual two schools' desires play each Danielsky said Notre Dame respect between these two other. primes officers with campus val­schools closely comparable to the 
On Oct. 15, 1927, the Irish ues. respect we have for other service defeated the defending national "Notre Dame has a history of academies," said Naval Academy champions and took home the excellence not only with acade­junior Austin Spina, who attend­Stadium Football Trophy made mia and athletics, but of produc­ed previous games in Notre especially for the highly touted ing Naval Officers with high Dame Stadium. match. The trophy still proudly morals, discipline, intelligence NROTC junior Patrick Maus sits on display in the trophy case and athleticism," she said. went to Navy for the game last in the Rockne Memorial. Due to the needed help during year. 
In 1930, Notre Dame invited war years and strong tradition of "The fans at the Navy game are Navy to be its opponent in the naval training at Notre Dame always great," he said. "I painted game marking the formal dedica­since, the Irish agreed to play up for both games so far because tion of Notre Dame Stadium. Navy every year both teams the Notre Dame-Navy game is 
But with the outbreak of World desired to meet. Even though the always big and our traditions go War II, Notre Dame's football field current overall record favors back so far." was used for marching to military Notre Dame, and the most recent Come Saturday, ties between drills as often as it was for Navy victory came in 1963, the the Naval Academy and Notre marching "onward to victory." In traditional game remains one of Dame will be as apparent as ever, 1943, enrollment plummeted to the most anticipated of the sea­as two Notre Dame alumni will the same levels experienced at son. fly Navy F/A 18F Super Hornets the height of the Great "Tradition is very strong at both over Notre Dame Stadium prior Depression -a 20 percent schools and part of that tradition to kickoff. Additionally, the Notre decline since 1940. includes playing football against Dame and Naval Academy glee 
The Naval Academy was each other every year," Morris clubs will perform a joint concert unable to meet the rising demand said. "That alone should be after the game. for educated officers during the enough reason to continue the war and established one of the series." Contact Katie Stuhldreher first Naval ROTC (NROTC) pro-Andrew Todd-Smith, former at kstuhldr@nd.edu 



Experience change. Seize opportunity. Do things differently. Think about Barclays Capital. 
Think about everything you want from a career, and then ask who can make you the perfect offer. As an investment bank we offer a new way -Summer Internship an innovative and challenging approach to standard business practices and to professional advancement. Presentation and Reception 
So, decide whether you want to work for another firm, or for a firm 
Wednesday, November 16th, 2005 
where we actually do believe that our graduates are the future. With the support of an international, market-leading parent bank with a balance 
6:00pm-8:00pm
sheet of over $800 billion, we have offices in 22 countries employing over 7,000 people. Only seven years old, we are expanding every year. 
Morris Inn Yes, we are a world leading investment bank, but we are also a meritocracy, "Representatives from Investment Banbng and Sales and where the individual is valued but the team is paramount. We truly Trading will be available to answer questtons regarding believe we are different. summer internship opportunities 


tleBARClAYS CAPITAL 
.........www..barcJayscapitaLcomlcampusre.cruitment. _ 
f.{)! 


ORLD & NATION 
Friday, November II, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OssERVEirs WlRE SERVICES page 5 
=_:___::_===================================-------­
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bombings kill42 in Iraq restaurant 
Bi\CIII>i\1>-Bombers killed 42 people Thursday at a Baghdad rnstaurant favored by polkn and an army recruiting center to the north, while Iraqi troops along the Iranian bor­der found 27 decomposing bodins, unidentified victims of the grisly violence plaguing the coun­try. 
In tho deadlinst bombing in Baghdad since SPpt. 19, a sukidn bomber blew himsnlf up in a restaurant about 9:45 a.m., when oflknrs usu­ally stop in fin· bnmkf<L'>L Police M<~j. Falah al­Mohammndawi said 35 ollieers and eivilians dim! and 25 worn wmmdnd. 
i\1-()aida in Iraq daimnd in an Internet posting that it staged thn attack in retaliation f(Jr U.S. and Iraqi opnrations near the Syrian border. J·:arlier, it dainwd rnsponsibility for Wmlnnsday night's deadly hot1~l bombings in nnighboring .Jordan, linking those blasts to thn eonfliet in Iraq. 
U.S., Europe agree on Iran issue 
VIENNi\-The United States and Europe have agreed on a eompromisn plan to accept nxpandnd nudear activities by Iran, hut only if thn enrkhmnnt process-a pos­sible pathway to nudear arms -is moved to Hussia, senior officials and diplomats said Thursday. 
If accepted by Iran, the proposal could nnd a tug-of-war ovnr wlwthnr to rnfnr the Islamic republic to t.hn U.N. Security Coundl for possihln sanctions. 
Tlw offidals and diplomats, who dmnand­Pd anonymity in exchange for discussing tlw strategy, said tlw plan would allow Iran to continuo convnrting raw uranium into thn gas that is spun by centrifugns into nnridwd uranium. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Conflict arises over cameras in court · 
Wi\SIIINCTON -Supreme Court justicos said Thursday that troubling memories of 0 ..1. Simpson's tnlevisml murder trial hang over the pn~sent-day dnbatn about nunnr&<; in eourl<;. 
Thnw justkns-Sandra Day O'Connor, i\nthony M. Kennedy and Stephen Breyer ­hrinfly debatnd tlw suqjm:t during an i\meriean Bar i\ssodation evnnt on the importance of law in the United Stab~s and abroad. 
/\I though Suprnrnn Court justices have long opposed courtroom cameras, them's a fresh movo in Congress to open up procondings. The llous1~ voted Wndn1~sday to ~-,rive fi~deral judges tlw power to tnlevis1~ court hearings. i\nd Senate .Judidary Chairman i\rlen Specter, H-Pa., has introduced logislation that would require the Suprnmn Court to allow its sessions to bn tele­visl~d in most cao;ns. 

Hospital turns down doner organs 
IHVINE -Wlwn Elodin lrvinn W<L'> dia~-,rnosod with a deadly kidrwy and liver disn&'ie, doctors at UCI Mndic.al Center told her shn would have a now liver within six months-possibly a wonk. 
But <L<; months becarno years, Irvine watdwd, t1~rrifind and helplnss, as 10 friends from her hospital-sponsored support group died without gntting the transplant<; they nnndnd. 
i\fter four years, lrvirw's kidney specialist became suspicious and advisnd her to transfhr to anotlwr hospital, where she got tlw desperatnly nnodnd kidney and liver Lransplanl<; within two months. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Congressman fights new time plan 
SOliTII BEND-i\ northern Indiana congress­man said it would be a mistake for St. Josnph County to be put on Central time and h<L'> <L<;ked tho U.S. transportation sm:rntary to mjnct the rnqunst. 
U.S. Hnp. Mark Souder of Fort Wayn1~ said in a lnttnr dated Monday to Norman Minnta that the soeial and economic interests of l~lkhart and Kosciusko counties are directly tied to St. Joseph County. 
In a move anticipating the DOT's Nov. 21 time zone hearing in South Bend, area businesses plan to endorse a sing!!~ rn~-,rional time zone. 
JORDAN 


Anger stirs after terror bombings 
Thousands gather in the streets ofJordan to condemn militants behind hotel attacks 
Associated Press 
i\MMi\N Sameeh Khreis has spent years demanding justice and more rights for jailed Islamic e}(l.remists. But on Thursday, he joined thou­sands who took to tho streets across Jordan to eondemn the militants behind i\mman's triple hotel bombings that killed 59 people. 
"This is disgusting. We will never tolerate such terrorism," Khreis said, marching with 2,000 oth­ers in Jordan's capital. 
"Burn in hell, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi!" they shoutnd, denouneing the .Jordanian­born leader of ai-Qaida in Iraq. AI-Zarqawi's group elaimed responsibility for the blasts but later, con­fronted with mounting protests, took the rare step of trying to justify the attaeks on i\rab civilians. 
Honking vehicles, dnco­ralnd with Jordanian flags and posters of King i\bdullah II. cruised i\mman's streets until late in the night. At the bombed Grand Hyatt Ilot.el, about 50 people, including Jordanian chil­dren holding tiny flags, placed eandlos on a makeshift sand memorial in the driveway. 

Officials suspected Iraqi involvement in the attacks. Two of the wounded were "Oh my God, oh my God. apparnnt responsn to the Security forces snared a hospitalized. Is it possible that i\rabs protests. ai-Zarqawi's group of Iraqis for ques­Significantly, the victims are killing Arabs, Muslims group took the rare stnp of tioning and ofl'ieials said also ineluded some two killing Muslims'? For what trying "to explain for one of the bombers spoke dozen Palestinians with did they do that?" Musl"irns part of the reason Iraqi-accented Arabie roots in the West Bank. screamed 35-year-old the holy warriors targntnd before he exploded his sui­Among them was the West Najah Akhras, who lost these dons." cide belt in the Hyatt. Bank's intelligence chief, two nieces in the attack. "Let all know that we 
King i\bdullah, a strong Maj. Gen. Bashir Nafeh, a Similar thoughts were have struck only after 
U.S. ally, vowed in a diplomat and a prominent hoard repeatedly through­beeoming confident that nationally televised banker. Many Jordanians out the West Bank and they are centers for address to "pursue those and Palestinians have sup­Gaza Strip. launching war on Islam criminals and those bohind ported the Iraqi insur­i\1-Qaida in Iraq, which and supporting the them, and we will gel to gency, but the hotel bomb­appears to be expanding Crusaders' presnncn in them wherever they are." ings could tip i\rab senti­its operations outside of Iraq and the Arab peninsu­
Two Americans were ment against al-Zarqawi. Iraq, said the bombings la and the presence of tho killed and four wounded in In the West Bank village put the United States on Jews on the land of the bombings Wednesday of Silet al-Thaher, mem­notice that the "backyard Palestine,'' ai-Qaida in Iraq evening at the Hyatt, the bers of the Akhras family camp for the Crusader said in an lntnrnel state­Radisson SAS and the Days mourned 13 of their rela­army is now in the range ment, the authenticity of Inn, State Department tives killed during a wed­of lire of the holy warriors. which could not bo imme­spokesman Noel Clay said. ding party at the Radisson. But later Thursday, in an diately verifind. 

GOP leaders postpone budget vote 
Associated Press  Wednesday, when the leaders dropped provisions to open the i\rctic National  would increase the dnlkit when cou­pled with a subsnqunnt tax cut bill.  
WASIIINGTON -llousn Hepublican  Hofuge to oil and gas exploration, as  "Tho Hepuhlkan Congress is about  
loaders seuttlf\d a vote Thursday on a  well  as a  plan letting statns lift a  to slash  mon~  than $50 billion from  
$51 billion budget-cut package in the  moratorium on  oil drilling off the  invnstments in our childn~n 's futurn in  
faen of a revolt by moderate lawmak­ i\tlantie and Pacific coasts.  health care and nducation," said  
ers over cuts to Mndicaid, food stamp  But moderates countered that the  Hahrn Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of  
and student loan programs.  spending cuts in the Ilouse budget  the  campaign  arm  for  House  
The episode marked a setback for  plan were a separate issue [rom Aretie  Democrats. "i\nd yet. bneause ol'  
Hnpublkans on Capitol IJill. They had  drilling. The cuts were too severe,  Hepubliean priorities, thny am going  
hoped to  use  the budget debate to  moderates argued, especially when  to actually add $20 billion  to our  
burnish their defieit-eutting creden­ compared with a significantly milder  budget defkit. ... Only in a lkpubliean  
tials with the public and their core  Senate budget plan that passed last  Congress."  
political supporters, many of whom  week.  Hepublican leaders said the post­ 
are disappointed with their party's.  Democrats mounted a furious attack  ponement ol' the vote  was simply a  
performance on spending.  on the GOP budget plan for its cuts to  modest setbaek and that the budgf\t  
The deeision by GOP leaders came  social programs and pounded home  effort would get back on  track next  
despite a big concession to moderates  the message that the overall GOP plan  week.  



-----~---------------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 11, 2005 
Rector 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame, Yomekpe put in a partial application for a rector position. 
"I had not really thought any­thing would come of it," she said. "When Sister Jean Lenz called my cell phone in February, I had totally forgotten about the application, but I agreed to send her my complet­ed application and have a phone interview with her. I was sold once I came to campus for my seeond interview and the rest is history in the making." 
It is history in the making, as she says, because Yomekpe is the first black female ever to hold the position of rector at Notre Dame. 
"Sometimes self-imposed pressures make me question God's call to come to Notre Dame; at other times I see the value of this position and the potential it has to change the way pPople see women of eolor in positions of authority," Yomekpe said. 
Originally from Ghana, West Africa, Yomekpe immigrated to the United States in 1996 after completing high school at an all­girls private Catholic boarding school. 
"So technically, I guess I would be first generation African­American," Yomekpe said. "Most of my nuclear family are currently in Ohio and Texas but I still have quite a large number of my family members in Ghana, among whom is my maternal grandmother who raised my sis­ter and I because both of my parents worked abroad." 
Since taking her post as rec­tor. Yomepke has felt a constant need to excel in her position, similar to how women must have felt when they were first granted entry into Notre Dame in 1972, she said. 
"II have felt] a need to be the very best so that I can pave the way for other women of color to do this work," she said. 
Yomekpe said she is chal­lenged daily, particularly in try­ing to figure out how to support "my black students" by attend­ing different cultural events, like African American Mass, while also serving as rector and attending different Pangborn events. 
"These are the moments when the job is the most difficult ... am I black first or am I a rector first?" she said. "[This is a] rela­tively harmless question, but for a person of color having to choose can be a grueling process." 
Yomekpe said it is important for everyone, especially for peo­ple of diverse backgrounds, to see that the administration means what it says and is seri­ous about opening up Notre Dame to everyone -and her hiring is one way the University has proved it is serious. 
"It is a rather significant step to have been invited to join the family here at Notre Dame, especially given how people felt af'ter Iformer Irish football] Coach [Tyrone] Willingham was let go," she said, referring to his firing by Notre Dame on Nov. 30, 2004. "What better way to do it than through the residence halls, whieh are at the very core of the Notre Dame experience?" 
The hiring of people of diverse backgrounds comes with the challenges of making sure all systems are in place to support the "diverse needs that come with this hiring," she said. 
need to ensure that we are not  come and be a part of this Notre  Images. We need to put names  ship," she said.  
just bringing in people of diverse  Dame family, because they truly  and stories to the faces that live  Yomekpe said she asked ques­ 
backgrounds to make the cam­ feel at home here."  right across the hall from us,"  tions about the student and  
pus look colorful/diverse but  Yomepke said while there is  she said.  administrator/faculty/staff of  
that rather, we are changing the  strength in the fact that num­ Yomekpe, the youngest rector  color representation and the  
way that we - as a campus - bers of diverse students at Notre  at Notre Dame, said she often  recruitment  efforts  of  the  
think, behave and process, in  Dame seem to be increasing,  gets mistaken for a student.  University.  
order to attract and retain these  one  of the  "I  think  Yomekpe said she made an  
diverse people."  weaknesses  I'm starting  effort to contact people within  
One factor that may have deterred other people of diverse backgrounds from applying for a  of diversity efforts at Notre Dame  "Sometimes self-imposed pressures make me  to stand out as more and more people  the University she knew were working directly with students of color, like Chandra Johnson,  
rector position may have been that they didn't feel supported in the environment at Notre Dame. sha said.  is that all events seem to be hap­pening at  question God's call to come to Notre Dame; at other times I see the value  recognize that I am 'that new black rector'  associate director of campus ministry and director of cross­cultural ministry, Bong Miquiabas, director of interna­ 
"Personally, I know that Notre Dame would never have been on my radar screen as a woman of color because of its general lack  the same time, thus "forcing stu­dents to  ofthis position and the potential it has to change the way people see women of  they've been hearing about," she s a i d .  tional student services, Lee David Moss of Student i\1Tairs, and Iris Outlaw, director of mul­ticultural student programs and  
of diverse people. I wasn't white and I wasn't Irish and I didn't think there was a place for me  have to d. e c i d e between  color in positions ofauthority. "  Yomekpe said she did not ·know  services. "I knew there was work to be done, but I felt there were  
here," she said.  "1 think the  learning,  ahead  of  resources, energy and effort  
image that is projected is what  say,  about  Kuukua Yompeke  time,  nor  behind doing this work." she  
attracts or repels people." The University has made the  Native American  Pangborn rector  was she informed in  said. Yomekpe graduatnd from Ohio  
ell'ort to open its doors to people  heritage or  her  inter­ Dominican  University  in  
of diverse backgrounds and to  entrepreneurship."  view that there had never been  Columbus with  a  bachelor's  
make  people feel  welcome,  Yomepke hopes more dorms  a black female rector before at  degree in English. She then  
Yomepke said.  will begin to hold events in the  Notre Dame. Sueh information,  earned her Master's degree in  
"We just need to continue  residenee halls to promote a  she  said,  would  have  only  English Literature with some  
doing so -loving everyone the  casual atmosphere.  caused more stress.  Master's credits in Pastoral  
way Jesus did, the way God calls  "Some students live right next  "Coming in, I knew there were  Counseling from the University  
us to do," she said. "If we con­ door to a student of Indian or  a limited number of stan·. faculty  of Dayton.  
tinue this way, then we can  Filipino heritage but don't know  and administrators of color but I  
expect to have more people of  their names until they see them  never knew that I would be pio­ Contact Kate Antonacci  
diverse backgrounds wanting to  perform at Asian Allure or Blak  neering in this field of rector- at kantonac@nd.edu  



Notre Dame  I Play for  
Baseball Greats  Notre Dame  
Cappy Gagnon  Ted Mandell  
11 :00 am ­ 1:00 pm  3:00 pm-5:00. pm  
Monk's Notre Dame  The Fighting Irish  
Fr. "Monk" Malloy  Football Encyclopedia  
11:00 am-1:00pm  Michael R. Steele  
3:00 pm ­ 5:00 pm  

Saturday, November 12 
Future Domers My First Notre Dame Sharon Bui Words: GO IRISH 9:30am -11:30 am Connie McNamara 
10:00 am -12:00 pm
Mr. Notre Dame Jason Kelly Legendary Notre 9:30am -11:30 am Dame auarterbacks 
will be in the
Notre Dame 
bookstore signing
vs The Klan 
their new DVD
Todd Tucker 
"Inside the Irish10:00 am -12:00 pm 
Huddle" from And Only To Deceive 10:00 am-12:00 pm Tasha Alexander 10:00 am-12:00 pm 

The Spirit of Notre Dame BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER
Jim &Jeremy Langford 

phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndcotalog.com
10:00 am -12:00 pm 

~ .::'>..,....... "':-~)~ -~~=~0:.. .. ;k ,,,~)'::-;;,' <~~~;<-.~w~~, 
"I would love to see a better "., f'H'(C' :;:;:,fut\1t*?:·.· ..~ Events are subject to change. Please· call to'i:onfirm. 574-631-5757 ~~. "· ." . , __ . representation of God's creation on this c.ampus," she said. "We 
~;:iiDJ~~~?fttl~~1~~~;i:,i:_{ -"' :--...J~11 f®r www.nd!atalog:~n;!,--03fl:f;;:~:: -:,: ', ·t ': ·· , . -. 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Friday, November II, 2005 page 7 



MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,644.74 +98.53

jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volum 1,957 133 ~2 2,097,360,050 

AME.X 1.682.05 ~5.85 
NASDAQ 2,194.64 +18.83 NYSE. 7,529.87 +28.88 S&PSOO I ,230.95 +10.30 NIKKfl(Tol<yo) 14,080.88 0.00 
FTSE. IOO(London) 5,430. I 0 -9.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -0.59
-3.32 17.16 NASDAQ II0 TR (QQQQ) + 1.18 +0.475 40.634 JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU) -4.70 -0.11 2.23 INTEL CP (INTC) + 1.53 +0.38 25.18 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.33 +0.09 27.05 

30-YEAR BOND -1.66 -0.80 47.46 I 0-YEAR NOTE -1.53 -0.71 45.64 5-YEAR NOTE -1.52 -0.69 44.84 3-MONTH BILL -0.13 -0.05 38.72 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.13 57.80 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.20 467.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -3.00 89.70 
Excha Rates 

YEN 118.2450 
EURO 0.8558 
POUND 0.5744 
IN BRIEF 
Bernanke appoinbnent fuels questions 
NI·:W YOHK-Trying to fix something that 
isn't hroknn has its risks, and that's raising 
ronrnrns about a possiblo shif'l at the Fodnral 
llnsnrvn ovnr how iltaeklos inllalion. 
Assuming the Senate eonf'irms Ben 
Bt~rnankn to replae1~ Chairman /\Ian 
CrPtmspan, thn ePntral hank could for the lirst 
limn in its history adopt a spndlie target for 
thn inllalion ratn and thnn mako adjustrnnnts 
to int1~mst ratns as a way of' trying to kenp it in 
that range 
But is that really noenssary'? It may bo tough to s1w tlw nnml now, given that tho Fed's cur­rPnt tartirs havP kept inrtation remarkably tanw dnspitn soaring mwrgy eosts. 
This topic has rome undnr gnmt debate in nronomks circles sinn~ Bernankn was tapped last month to suecned Crnnnspan. who is expnrt.ncl to leave tlw Fnd on Jan. :11 aftnr 1H­plus ynars during which thorn worn two stock­market rollaps11s and neonomie recessions as WPII as numnrous other financial erisns. 
WhiiP CrPPnspan has long pursund a low­inllation policy during his tPnurn, lm has bonn against sPll.ing an actual "inl'lation targot," wlwn~hy thn Fed diselosns its goal and its l'omrast for inf1ation. I lis vinw is that tho Fed ran wntrol inllation without setting a spndlic ratn that it must. thnn elms1~. whieh he belinves could hampPr its llnxibility to aet in a lime of ntwd. 
Medicare halves its payment errors 
W/\SIIINCTON-Modiearn sawd about $9.5 billion this past fiseal ynar by cutting nrrors in half. oflidals said Thursday. 
/\n orror occurs whnn Modkarn pays for a nwdintlly unnnenssary sorvieo, a provider sub­mits ineorrnct billings, or thorn is insuflieinnl donmwntation to provo the service was nnens­sary. 
Mark McCitdlan. administrator of thn Cnntl~rs for MPdkam and Medieaid Snrviens, creditt~d wmputnr data hasns and tho hiring of indn­JWIHinnt contractors to roviow daims. Whnn tiro agnncy first lmgan eakulating orror ralns. it routinely rnviewnd about 6,000 daims for a1:curacy. That has risen to I 60,000 claims. 
In somn casns, the errors are fraud. But in otlwr arnas. it can bo an innoeent mistake, McClellan said. 
Yahoo no longer in AOL talks 
Microsoft and Google are now top contenders; Google may combine with Comcast 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Yahoo 
lne. has pullnd out or dis­
cussions over buyipg a 
stake in America Onlinn 
Inc.. lnaving Microsoft 
Corp. and Googlo Inc. as 
the leading potnntial suit­
ors. 
The decision to abandon 
the talks eamn af'tor Yahoo 
ehief executivn Terry 
Seniel and ehinf' finance 
oiTiecr Susan Deeknr mot 
in late October with Time 
Warner nxncutivns in New 
York, said Yahoo spokes­
woman Joanna Stnvons. 
Stevens said Yahoo had 
"politely passed" on pro­
posnd terms and "walked 
away from any internst in 
a d11al." 
Two peoplo close to the discussions said a key stumbling block was Time Warrwr Inc.'s insistence that it retain majority owrwrship in tho /\OL unit. Thny spoko on condition of anonymity bneausn public discussions or any privato rwgotiations were contrary to their eompanins' poli­dos. 

One of tlw poople, famil­iar with Time Warner's position. said one arrange­mont undnr discussion had called for Yahoo to pay Time Warnnr in stock worth $13 billion for an HO percent slake in AOL's growing eontnnt business, transforms itself from a Nathanson at Sanford C. portal, instant messaging which includes its Web declining "walled garden" Bornstein snrviens and dial-up sites and the news, music focusnd on providing dial­!\ Googln deal with /\OL aecoss. and other serviens fea­up access to a. provider of' would give tho lnlnrnet Tlwrn would also bn eon­tured on them. fren content that is tap­snareh leadnr a way to sidnrabln ovorlap betwnm1 
Under that proposal, the ping tho recent boom in build a portal -and grow AOL's and Yahoo's busi­person said, Time Warner online advertising. its advertising potnntial -nesses. would koep all of' /\OL's Late last year. the while preserving an exist­Yahoo, bm;nd in Sunnyvaln, Internet aceess business. Dulles, Va.-based eompa­ing relationship with AOL. Calif'.. is till' h~ading Web dns­which is in deeline as ny abandoned its longtime More than 10 percent of tination, aeeording to users abandon dial-up stralngy of' exclusivity and Google's revenues 1:ome Ninlsen/Net.Halings and connections for higher­hogan making its rich from a partnership in eomSeoro Mndia Motrix, as speed cable and DSL lines. offerings-including con­which AOL usns Google 's morn pnople lwad to the 
The Yahoo withdrawal, certs. news, sports and n­soareh results and the two lntnnwt for news, nntnrtain­reported narlier on the mail -available through companies share ad rev­nwnt. eommtminttions and Web site of' The Wall AOL.com for f'ren, a model enues. other sorviens. Street Journal. leaves Yahoo drove to become A deal with AOL would Yahoo sharns rose IJ4 Microsoft and Google as the Web's top brand. be in Microsoft's intnrost as eents. or 2.5 percent. to thn leading contendfH'S, Thn Web portal side of it eould dampen eompoti­close at $:~S.hiJ Thursday with Google possibly com­/\OL's business is worth lion from Googln and crn­on the Nasdaq. Sharns in bining with Comeast Corp. about $11.:~ billion, based aln synergies. Microsoft's Nnw York-based Time in a bid. largnly on /\OL's advertis­MSN online division and Warner rose 5 cnnts to 
The interest in AOL ing potential. according to AOL share many businnss­doso at $17.71 on the New comes as the company mod ia analyst Michael ns, ineluding an onlinn York Stock Exdrangn. 

Stocks rally after Treasury auction 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Stocks rallied Thursday al'ter a record Treasury auction pushed bond yields lower, raising hopes that interest rates wi II follow and allaying fears that fornign investors would move away from U.S. debt. 
Wall Stroot was also helped by lowf~r oil priens and sheer momen­tum. as the Standard & Poor's 500 passed a priee coiling that usually triggers selling. 
For tho most part. howovnr, the rwws that sent storks soaring in latn afternoon was nearly identical to the news that sent storks sidn­ways in the morning. 

"We were seratching our heads," said Brian Williamson, an equity trader at The Boston Company Asset Management. a Mellon sub­sidiary. 
Falling oil prices, which worn a downward f'orco for stocks in tho morning as nnergy stocks fell, helped snnd stocks higher in the af'tnrnoon, with retail stocks rising as worries about consumer spond­ing were temporarily forgotten. 
TIHl Dow Jones industrial aver­age rose 93.89, or 0.89 percent, to 10,640.1 0. In late afternoon trad­ing, the indnx was up morn than 100 points. 
Broader stock indicators wern also higher. The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 1o.:H. or 0.84 por­
cent. to 1.2:10.<JTJ, and tho Nasdaq composite index rosn 20.H7, or 
0.96 percont, to 2,11J6.hH. 
Bond pricos rosn sharply, with tho yiold on the I 0-year Treasury note falling to 4.5fJ pnrennt from 4.fJ5 percent late Wedrwsday. Tho 
U.S. dollar was mixnd against 
o t h n r m aj or c u r r e n c ins i n Europoan trading. Gold priees were higher. 
Thursday's.auction of 10-yoar Treasury notes attracted a record lovel of' indirnc:t bids, which include fornign cnntral banks. Thn auction ramo as a rnlinf to investors who wnn1 worried al'tnr two auctions of shortnr-tnrm bond narlier this wonk failed to attact intense foreign domand. 
Friday, November 11, 2005

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
number of students we believed with administrators to assure would attend," Coughlin said. "direct student input" in future
Rallies 

"Although everyone recognized decisions. that in this new process some "I am optimistic that we will
continued from page 1 

people would be turned away be part of future conversations," 
due to limited capacity, no one she said. "We believe that stu­grants an additional 600 to wanted it to be the students." dent attendance is an essential attend the rally, I do not believe Coughlin said "historical data" part of pep rallies and would we have any way of assuring -namely numbers from the like to see the students' ability that this will be a perfect num­Sept. 16 Michigan State pep to attend protected." ber." she said. "We have no rally earlier this year -were Coughlin said it should not be guarantee that this number will used to make the 6,000-student that dif'l1cult to determine how be large enough or that we will prediction, which Student many students will attend pep even have 3.000 students attend Activities hoped would enable rallies. the rally." students who wanted to attend "I have heard the statements 
Shappell said student govern­gain entrance. that it depends on the time of ment is working with adminis­"Ultimately, I am the one year, the quality of the oppo­trators to discuss future changes responsible for holding to the nent, or the record of the team in the 3,000-seat allotment. 6,000 number for student atten­-Ijust don't buy into them," he 
"We taking a proactive role to dance," he said. "I regret this said. "This is our team, playing meet with administrators to talk over-estimation, especially as it on our campus, every game is a about the new system and make afl'ected so many fans who had big game."· sure that students are a part of to be turned away even though Shappell could not say what further decisions," she said. "We there was room in the Joyce would happen if student govern­want to assure that all interest­Center ... [but] the only real dis­ment pushed for more tickets ed students are able to attend appointment is that students did only to have students fail to fill pep rallies. The key thing to not attend the pep rally to sup­the seats again, but said she and communicate to students is that port their team in the numbers her constituents are collaborat­if we want the number to we thought they would." ing with all parties involved to increase, we must prove that we Coughlin said the Student ensure any student who wants can meet these attendance · Activities Of'fice received "a to attend future pep rallies has numbers." great deal of feedback" because the ability to do so. 
Hall Presidents Council Co­of the discrepancy between pro­"I think there arc a great chair Dan Zenker said students jected and actual student num­number of people on this cam­need to show administration bers and this newfound input is pus doing the best they can to officials that they are "excited "a good thing when dealing with make sure the pep rallies are about supporting their football such a new process." safe for everyone in attendance, team on a weekly basis" -in Zenker said the Student full to capacity, supportive ~f spite of the opponent or record. Activities Office, student govern­our team and provide a memo­
"The Student Activities Office ment and the Hall Presidents rable and enjoyable experience and student government have Council are working with athlet­for all," Coughlin said. "With fought hard to preserve as many ic administration officials to time I believe we will have a pep rally seats as possible for resolve this issue and arrive at a safe and effective way for stu­students." he said. "We need all fair and practical solution. dents, alumni, friends and fans students to uphold the Notre "We intend to improve com­to attend pep rallies that accom­Dame spirit and attend these munication between all of these plish all of our goals." pep rallies to prove that student groups in an effort to represent Non-students who wish to support and enthusiasm for our students and fans who are eager obtain tickets for today's pep football team doesn't wane with to enjoy themselves at the pep rally must line up at Gate 10 of time." rallies," he said. the Joyce Center at 4:30 p.m. 
Shappell said student pres­Zenker, Shappell and Hall Shappell said the time change ence at the pep rallies is crucial Presidents Council Athletics Co­will solve last week's issue of to the event's success. Chair Justin Doyle met with fans having to make two trips to 
"The students are the life of Athletics and Facilities adminis­the Joyce Center -once to the pep rally," she said. "They trators Thursday to propose obtain a ticket and again to are the most energetic support­increased student input on the attend the event. ers of the team and are the most set number of students allowed current members of the Notre into future pep rallies. 
Contact Katie Perry 
Dame community. As room­"We talked about continued 
at kperryS@nd.edu
mates and classmates of the student input and I believe that players, students should have a we will now be able to be a 

Sherry returns to ND after 30-year absence 
Special to The Observer said. "So, it seemed like the 
timing was right." 

After more than 30 years The hallmark of' the Notre away from Notre Dame, John Dame marketing department Sherry found upon his return is the role of marketing in that, while some things have society. and that. too, played changed, the essence of the into Sherry's decision to University remains very accept the University's offer. much the same as it was "The marketing and soci­during his undergraduate ety aspect here is a good fit days. for me as an anthropologist," 
"Having been here as a Sherry said. "It seemed to student, Notre me, I could Dame has a make a contri­special place in "Having been here bution. my heart," said "In addition,
as a student. Notre 
Sherry, who left there's the
Dame has a special
Northwestern interrelation University to place in my heart." between mar­come here as keting and the Herrick morality, so it's
John Sherry
Professor of interesting to be
chair

Marketing and at a place
marketing department
chair of the where that kind marketing of conversation department. "The actual goes on all the time." physical plant is probably As an anthropologist, twice as big as it was when I Sherry studies consumer was in school, but the atmos­behavior from a slightly dif­phere remains the same. I've ferent perspective. talked to other alums on the "My approach," he said, "is faculty who have had similar based on the direct perspec­experiences. tives of consumers or man­
"I don't know how corny agers. I literally go into the this sounds, but in walking marketplace with them in around here, you feel really hopes of better understand­grounded. The presence that ing the moment-by-moment the place exerts on you is lived experience of really palatable." people."Sherry is the editor 
Sherry wasn't looking to of two books, "Contemporary leave Northwestern's Kellogg Marketing and Consumer School of Management, but Behavior: An when the opportunity arose Anthropological Sourcebook" at his alma mater, he and "Servicescapes: The grabbed it. Concept of Place in 
"I had accomplished a lot Contemporary Markets," and at Northwestern, my the co-editor of two others, youngest son was heading "Advances in Consumer off to college (the University Research" and "Time, Space of Iowa), and there was a and the Market: Retroscapes need at Notre Dame," Sherry Rising." 
lies to support their friends." 
The goal to accommodate all students is what initially drove Student Activities to set such a high estimate -6,000 projected students -for the Tennessee pep rally, Director of Student Activities Brian Coughlin said. 
"A great deal of tip1e was spent trying to settle on the protected place at the pep ral­greater part of the conversation 

NOT~E DAME'S DEPA~TMENT OF FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEAT~E P~ESENTS
about future pep rally changes," Shappell said. "I cannot com­ment on what will happen next year; however, we are trying to work with the current system so every interested student has an opportunity to attend the last two pep rallies of this season." 
Shappell said she hopes to start regularly communicating 
Why? 
United for Pakistan Earthquake Relief 
800,000 homeless 
(2.3 million displaced) Winter already started. Temperature could drop to -54 F(-12C) 
Information Forthcoming 



'1··.·.·.············

:: .: 

N 
. . ... ·. 
.

L v l
'···· 


Tl.H~Sd~ y, 
November 8 through Sunday, November 20 
Philbin Studio Thedtre 
$8 oil students for tickets, coli the DPAC Ticket Office ot 631-2800 or VISit http:// performingorts.nd.edu 
F 0 R 
. 
·. . . ....
N G
. 

B y 0 E l C 0 WAR D 
~UNTVE. RSITYOF 
~NOTRE DAME 


Friday, November ll, 2005 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
of the University started to community, he said. weeks. dorm, the senior and his friend change. "I just feel that Notre Dame "Even in the dorm, they're decided to pursue that option. 
Discipline 
wants to foster brotherhood and very quick to make an example He didn't anticipate the eom­

continued from page 1 "It leaves a bitter taste in your community spirit [but it's] fos­mouth," he said. "It's not tering a feeling of just taking because you care for our well­care of yourself," he said. "If
tion. And it's integral to admin­being, but because we're a NDSP sees you helping a drunkistrators' vision of Notre Dame. 
source of revenue. You don't kid back Ito his dorm], they

"You take the expression 'We want to help us." won't just cite him, they'll cite arn Notre Dame,' we take that The senior's complaints stem you for the alcohol on yourpretty snriously," Kirk said. "We not from the minor in a tavern breath. Everyone's just going to 
are tognther, one body, very 
and minor in possession of false help themselves. We're living inmuch rnlatnd to our mission as identilication citations issued to a microscope."

a Catholic university, we're one him by police, but from the dis­The microscope, "the biggerbody in Christ, the whole idea ciplinary measures pursued by fist coming down on people,"that we are in this all together the University following the inci­became overwhelming for the ... !The community! should be dent. senior.
life-giving, allows students to He, like dozens of his peers, "It made me want to gosuecnnd academically. 
faced fines and community serv­abroad. It made me want to get"That's the bottom line." 

ice hours from both St. Joseph out from under the Dome and

But for other students, the 
County and the Office of be treated like an adult in a for-Notre Dame community has dif­Residence Life eign setting," hel(lrcnt connotations. 

and Housing as said.

''I'd say it's a bunch of hot well as legal And he didair," said a second male senior, fees after Boat leave, exchang­
who also wished to remain "I wasn't out drinking 
Club levied ing the Notre 

anonymous. "llad I known in and driving, wasn't
lawsuits Dame atmos­

advance what would happen ... 
against many chugging liquor in the phere he associ­

I would have planned on moving of the cited stu­ated with
ol'f campus certainly after two dorms ... I was
dents for dam­hypocrisy and 

years, maybe one and a half. responsible. I handled 
ages the bar double jeopardyYou meet all your buddies by incurred. it like an adult andfelt for the freedomthrm anyway." 

"It's double of a yearlong
like I was treated
jeopardy," he abroad program
like a kid. ,,

"This Is a raid. Line up" said. "You do junior year. 
For the first senior, the seeds that, [cite mel Now living off­of discontent were planted his as a private cit­Notre Dame senior campus, Boat frnshman year with the Jan. 24, izen. Not as a Club nearly 2003 bust of the Boat Club -Notre Dame three years in tlwn a Thursday night bar desti­student, but as the past, the nation with an anything-goes an underage student at a bar." senior said Notre Dame's situa­reputation popular with un-der­The senior chose pretrial tion for students is worsening in agn Notre Dame and Saint diversion for the citations and terms of both on-and off-cam­Mary's students. settled the lawsuit outside of pus enforcement. 
As a lirst-semestnr freshman, court, but the legal eonclusion of "You love Notre Dame because thn senior W<1nt to Boat Club the ineident didn't end its of the football, you love [that] ovnry other Thursday, nights he impact. Tht~ greater issue was when you graduate there's great rnmembomd as "not even to get how it changed his -and many alumni, but not because every wasted, but to get ofT campus" others' apprehended in the bar weekend you were having a and unwind with his friends. that night -attitudes toward good time," he said, remember­
When Indiana State Excise the University. ing his initial disappointment and South Bond police officers "I wasn't out drinking and with in-dorm social relations. entornd the bar and started driving, wasn't chugging liquor "When you're not 21 and you writing citations to more than in the dorms ... I was responsi­want to have a social life, it's 200 underagn students-assist­ble,'' the senior said. "I handled hard to take risks. Playing ed by Notrn Dame it like an adult and felt like I Madden [video games], or par­Security/Police (NI>SP) oflkers was treated like a kid." ties in a crowded, sweaty dorm armed with Univnrsity directo­That treatment has a negative room with some girl puking ... rins -tho senior's perceptions impact on the closeness of the gets played out after about four 

Study Abroad tltis Summer tltrouf:ll Notre Dame Programs in: 
Quito, Ecuador-NEW!! Paris, France-NEW!! Dublin, Ireland Milan, Italy-NEW!! Puebla, Mexico Toledo, Spain Kampala, Uganda-NEW!! 
Come to an inl(mnation session to learn more... 
Tuesday, November 15, 2005 5:00pm 231 Hayes Healy 


of students. You make an exam­ple, and everyone lives in fear." 
Kirk said it is natural for stu­dents to disagree with the University's disciplinary approach -and that Notre Dame does not regret taking stances some students vehe­mently oppose. 
"Nobody likes rules and regu­lations, necessarily ... I don't apologize for that. I don't think anyone in Student Affairs would," Kirk said, "[The rules are] good, appropriate, educa­tional at their core ... The rules don't exist for any other purpose than to live together in commu­nity." 
However, he drew a distinc­tion between students who sim­ply don't like the rules and stu­dents who have a logical, ration­al problem with their fairness. 
"A reasoned argument as to why something might be over­bearing -that would be appro­priate," Kirk said. 
"You lied to our face" 
The second male senior was kicked out of his dorm along with his roommate at the end of their sophomore year after what he called a "few small pranks" escalated into a flurry of accu­sations and denials that left him feeling "cornered" by the University. 
"We were caught red-handed, and we admitted to that," the senior said. 
But when asked to account for more serious pranks -includ­ing causing water damage and egging a resident assistant's door -the two friends were confused. 
"[Hall staffi brought up all this stuff we hadn't heard about ... and said, 'We know it's your buddies. Bring them down and fess up,"' the senior said. "At that time, I didn't know if my buddies had done it or not. My roommate and I took the stance, 'We're not going to give out names.'" 
Five meetings later, the rector told the senior and his friend they had three options -move off-campus, move out of the dorm or take their case to the Office of Residenee Life and Housing. 
"But they're going to believe what I say at HesLife," the sen­ior recalled his rector saying. 
After the rector said the two friends could switch to the same plicated process involved and especially not the e-mail he received from another dorm's rector the next day -"Your rector suggested you don't live with your roommate." 
"Basieally what it canw down to is he I my rector I lied to us," the senior said. "He jumped all over us, asked if we ealled him a liar ... We're saying, of course not. But the whole time think­ing, 'You lied to our face.'" 
While neither he nor his friend were referred to the Office of Hesidence Life and Housing, the senior called the way the situation was handled "ridiculous." 
"They always sort of talk about your brothers in the dorm -[then] to penalize me for not lying and saying my dormmates did something, I was kicked across campus," he said, adding the move did little to encourage his immersion in a new hall community. 
"I didn't become a part of the new dorm at all. If anything, it encouraged me to go off-campus more and party more," the sen­ior said. "I slept at least several nights a week at apartments." 
It was probably a side effect unintended by the University, the senior said. But he didn't mind. 
"I came herfl for rnasons other than the community lifestyle or whatever they want to have in the dorms," he said. 
But for students like junior Sarah Ball, that community lifestyle is essential to the Notre Dame experience. 
"I love my dorm -it's been like a sorority," said Ball, who lives in Breen-Phillips. "Everyone's so far away from their families, but they basically have a family to be with lherel. with automatie friends." 
This dorm family is just a part of the bigger Notre Dame family, Ball said. 
While today's students may have conflieting views of the Notre Dame experience, one thing is certain -recent frus­trations are merely examples of long-simmering tensions between the student body and the University administration regarding disciplinary proce­dures, as thn seeond part of this series will examine. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
5 BEDROOM HOUSE AVAILABLE NOW 
Great Neighborhood, Prime Location, Close to Campus 
105 Marquette Ave. South Bend, IN Just off Angela and US 31 Due to extreme circumstances it is available for immediate possession. This house has been leased to Notre Dame Students for over 30 years by the same owner, who is a local resident. Don't miss this rare opportunity. Please call our office at 
574-232-6964 (still available for next year!) 
Application deadline is March I, 2006 

page 10 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 11, 2005 

Friday, November 11, 2005 
The Observer + INTERNATI 0 NAL NEWS page 11 
LIBERIA 
Liberia to have Af·rica's first elected -wotnan president 
Fonner finance minister and Harvard graduate Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf poised to claim large-scale victory in election 
Associated Press hn would press his formal r-om­observer mission, said the vote 
plaint with the Eler.tions was "well-administered in a 

MONIWVI;\ -;\ former Commission. peaceful, transparent and f'inan1~n ministnr and llarvard "We arn senking the advicn of orderly manner." graduatn rlaimnd victory tho international r.ommunity David Carroll, leading a 2R­Thursday in Lilwria's prnsidnn­and all the people that ar11 person team from the Atlanta­t.ial nlnction. a win that, if cnrli­involved to sen if everybody can based Carter Center, said that lind, would makn hnr tho first arrnst this situation," Weah while "minor irregularities" had ni«H:tnd fnnHtln lnadnr nvnr in said. "While we been noted. Africa. arn preparing our­none of our 
With 90.X pPrcnnt of votns selves for the legal "They just don't observers saw countnd, l·:llnn Johnson-Sirleaf side, wn are also want a woman to be any serious had rn«'PiVPd 59.1 pnrcnnt and asking our people problems."
president in Africa. 

fornwr int.nrnalional soc1:er star to bn very calm." Observers from 
But she shall be." 

Cnorgn Wnah 40.1J pnrcnnt, the Weah's support­the Economic National klnct.ions Commission ers inelude many Community of said. former warlords, West Afriean
Jemina Caulcrlck 

"It's clnar that thn Liberian rebel leaders and States, which
Unity Party official

pPopln hav1~ nxprnssnd conf'i­young men who played a key role dPncn in mn." Johnson-Sirlnaf fought in Liberia's brokering pnace said. "Tiwy havn Plndnd me to 14-year dvil war that killed up in Libfwia. also deemed the vote lnad tlw tnam that will bring to 200,000 pnople and plunged fair. this rnform to tlw country and the country's 3 million residents ;\cross the country's bombed­that will d«~liwr dnvPiopnwnt. into abjeet poverty. out r.apital. large groups of 
"Wn'rn going to havn a gov­While international observers excited Liberians stood on nrnnwnt of inrlu-who monitored crumbling street corners, lis­sion. Wn'rn going the poll said pre­tening to results as they were to wach out to tbl' "It's clear that the liminary l'indings announr.ed on radio. Some rwopln... indicated it was argued with each other, shaking
Liberian people 

Tlw rn was no fair, Doss said the lingers and shouting.
have expressed 

i m nwd i a tn word fraud allegations The winner will have to gov­from Wnah 's camp confidence in me." were being taken ern a country left in ruins by on whnthnr hn seriously. war, its buildings smashed and was conceding "Any allegation nearly one-third of its people in
Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf

dnfnat in tlw votn of any fraud is relief camps. -Libnria's l'irst Johnson-Sirleaf, 67, has a
presidential candidate serious and we sirH:n thn nnd of a don't want allega­master's degree in public I «Jx<J-2003 civil tions of fraud to administration from Harvard war and subsequent formation mar the eleetion," he said. University, and has held top of a transitional govnrnment. Johnson-Sirleaf's campaign regional jobs at the World Earlinr. off'idals callnd for vigorously denied the eharges. Bank, the United Nations and calm amid Weah 's accusations "It's all lies," said Jemima within the Liberian govern­that poll worknrs stuffed ballot Cauleriek, a top official of ment. Her supporters call her boxns in .lohnson-Sirlfmrs favor, Johnson-Sirleaf's Unity Party. the "Iron Lady," borrowing the chargns her campaign denied. "They just don't want a woman nickname of former British On Thursday. Wnah met with to be president in Africa. But Prime Minister Margaret Alan Doss. who hnads the she shall be." Thatcher. 15,000-strong U.N. peacekeep­Max van den Berg, head of a In elections in 1997, Johnson­ing mission in Liberia, and said 50-member European Union Sirleaf ran second to warlord-


The sam1e low rate on new or ~sed autos­leaves (~ur competition in the dwst. 
< 
'I 
0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better 

574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 

AP 

Uberian presidential candidate Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf leads ex-soccer star George Weah with more than 90 percent of votes counted. 
turned-president Charles Taylor, who many claimed was voted into power by a fearful electorate. Taylor was forced from power two years ago and lives in exile in Nigeria. 
Weah's ascent from Monrovia's slums to interna­tional soccer stardom had earned him much support in a dirt-poor country short on heroes. The 39-year-old is a high school dropout with no experience in government, but r------------------., 
: VERA BRADLEY : 
1 20% offwith ND/SMCStu.LD. 1 
I  I  
:  tUife~u~te  ,  
1  East Hank Emporium RMaurant Bldg.  i  
1  lZl S, Nil.lS Ave.. (574} 232·8488  t  

L------------------~ 
that is seen as a plus by many in a r.ountry long-ruled by coup leaders and warlords. 
Founded by freed American slaves in the mid-lXOOs, Liberia was once among Africa's most prosperous countries, rich in diamonds, ancient forests and rubber. Years of war ended in 2003 when Taylor was forced to step down as advancing rebels shelled the capital. 
Elected women in high office are rare across i\frka. Earlier this year, women were appoint­ed deputy president of South Africa and prime ministnr of Mozambique. Liberia briefly had an unelncted woman prnsi­dcnt. Huth Perry, in the mid­1990s. 
TW UNI\II:RS/1Y or NOTRE DAlvll: DU'AI<TMINI 0/· fvfliS/C I'RISU'./TS 
s

THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CONCERT BANDS 
Directed by Kenneth DyP .md Samuel Sanchez 


E s Q 
u I 
c 
E N 
T 
E 
N 
N 
I A L 

page 12 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Friday, November 11, 2005 

House halts Alaska oil drilling 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -For a quar­ter-century, environmentalists have succeeded in blocking efforts to drill for oil in what they consider a pristine, cher­ished patch of tundra in an Alaska wildlife refuge. 
But with sky-high fuel prices and a wider Republican major­ity in Congress, their long fight to keep oil companies out of the refuge looked to be in trou­ble. Then they got some help from an unexpected place: House Republicans angry over cuts to social programs. 
House leaders put off plans Thursday to vote on the budg­et-cutting package because of opposition to issues unrelated to the Alaska refuge -deep cuts in Medicaid, food stamps and student loans. The leaders earlier were forced to jettison the Alaska drilling provision from the bill after a group of GOP moderates said they would not vote for the budget if ANWR were included. 
Developing the Arctic National Wildlife Hefuge (ANWH), where geologists believe 10.4 billion barrels of oil rest beneath a coastal strip of tundra, has been a top ener­gy priority for President Bush and Republican leaders in Congress for years. Bush first called for its development in his 2000 presidential cam­paign. 
The House in various forms passed authorization to drill in the refuge five times, but each time the measure died in the Senate, where drilling support­ers couldn't get the 60 votes needed to overcome a fili­buster. 
Over the years, protecting the refuge and its wildlife ­caribou, polar bears, musk oxen and tens of thousands of migratory birds -became a cause celebre for environmen­talists and conservationists of all political stripes. 
But the strategy this time was to push the ANWR meas­ure through as part of the budget bill, which is not subject to a tilibuster. A decade ago a Republican-led Congress used the same tactic to get a drilling provision to the White House, only to have it vetoed by President Clinton. 
Last week, the Senate voted 51-48 to endorse a require­ment for the Interior Department to begin oil lease sales in ANWH within two years. The House seemed on the same path. 
Environmentalists already had launched an intense lobby­ing campaign both in the con­gressional districts of moderate Republicans and on Capitol Hill. 
Although the House had passed ANWH legislation five times, the environmentalists believed their best chance to block it this time was not in the Senate, but in the House where GOP moderates -unhappy about some of the social pro­gram cuts in the bill -were viewed as ready to buck their leaders over ANWH. 
The lobbying had its effect. 
Hep. Dave Heichert, R-Wash., was among two dozen GOP moderates who on Thursday displayed pictures of scores of his constituents who had come to Washington to urge him not to approve ANWR drilling. 
"You have to listen to the people you represent," he said. 
Reichert, a former sheriff in Seattle, was among about a dozen GOP lawmakers who favored deficit reduction, but also told the House leaders 
they would not vote for the bill 
if ANWR were included. 
Democrats already were on 
record that they would unani­mously oppose the budget cuts. So GOP moderates -those opposed to the entire bill and others opposed only to ANWH .-had more leverage than they 
ever dreamed. 
"Our voice is being listened 
to now more than it has in the 
past," said Hep. Sherwood 
Boehlert, R-N .Y., a moderate 
who has fought ANWR drilling 
measure in the past, but this 
time also opposed many of the 
social spending cuts. 
Rep. Edward Markey, D­
Mass., one of the House's most 
vocal opponents to ANWR oil 
development, cautioned, how­
ever, that it's too early to cele­
brate, especially since a final 
budget package __:_ if one pass­
es the House -will have to be 
meshed with the Senate bill 
that includes ANWH drilling. 
"It would be a premature 
exaltation" to celebrate. 
"Today is just a temporary 
detour," said Markey, adding 
that he's certain the GOP lead­
ership will put pressure on its 
moderates to change their 
mind about ANWR. 
Sen. Ted Stevens, R-Alaska, 
said Thursday he was disap­
pointed that the House 
dropped the refuge language, 
but is not giving up the fight. 
''I'm not ever going to quit try­
ing to get it done," he said 
when asked about opening the 
refuge to oil development. 
"I think the bill ultimately 
will have ANWR in it," said 
Rep. Richard Pombo, B.-Calif., a 
staunch pro-drilling lawmaker 
who is chairman of the House 
Hesources Committee that has 
jurisdiction over the issue. 
Environmentalists were cau­
tiously optimistic. 

Eskimo whale hunters adopt new explosives 
Associated Press 

ANCHORAGE, Alaska Eskimo whale hunters are switching from 19th-century black powder to an explosive considered more humane. 
During a traditional bowhead whale hunt, a hunter in a wood­en-ribbed boat hurls a harpoon with a black-powder grenade attached to it. The grenade pene­trates near the whale's blow hole and explodes, killing the animal. 
The Alaska Eskimo Whaling Commission began researching new weaponry after an interna­tional whaling agency two 
decades ago ordered that more humane methods be developed for killing bowheads. 
The answer was penthrite, a World War !-era explosive used in demolition that experts say kills more quickly, does not spoil the taste of the meat, and is safer for har­pooners, too. 
Eugene Brower, a 

Barrow whaling captain who is chairman of the Alaska Eskimo Whaling Commission's weapons improvement program, has started training Alaska Natives to use the new grenade. He said captains from the villages of Kaktovik, Nuiqisit and Barrow have converted to penthrite for the spring and fall hunts. 
"They love it," he said. "It's four times the strength of black powder. With black powder, the meat has a gas taste." 
Penthrite kills by causing an explosion that shocks the whale's central nervous system. Black powder, which was used by Yankee whalers in the 1800s, generally kills by causing bleed­ing. 
Also, it sometimes takes multi­ple strikes with black powder to kill a whale, during which the hunters in their wooden boats are in danger from the thrashing bowhead, a species that can measure 50 feet or more and weigh up to 100 tons. 
Hesearchers say that black powder generally takes 60 min­utes to kill a bowhead whale, while penthrite takes only about 15 minutes. 
The search for more humane 
weaponry led the 
Alaska commis­

"Alaska Natives sion to a Norwegian veteri­
have worked a long 
narian who had

time toward a 
produced a can­more humane and non-fired efficient hunt.,, penthrite grenade 
for whalers in Japan and Patricia Forkham Norway. 
president The National Humane Society Marine Fisheries Service and the
International 
National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Agency contributed funding for the necessary research and test­ing. 
Patricia Forkhan, president of Humane Society International, said her group maintains that no whaling is humane. 
"But Alaska Natives have worked a long time toward a more humane and efficient hunt, and we've been supportive," she said. "If penthrite is working, that's good." 
Alaska Natives have been allowed to hunt whales for sub­sistence since 1977 under an international agreement. 

~Merrill Lynch 
SHARE OUR PASSION MERRILL LYNCH PRESENTATION 
NOTRE DAME juniors are invited to attend: 
Monday, November 14, 2005 
6:00-8:00 pm 

Center for Continuing Education, McKenna Hall, Room 102 
Whether you look at us in terms of people, culture, products or our virtually limitless possibilities, Merrill Lynch defines "exceptional" in every sense of the word. It's a source of pride for all of us who work here. And a source of exceptional careers for those eager to share in our passion for doing great things. 
Attend our presentation. And let's explore the possibilities together. 
Summer opportunities: Investment Banking 
EXCEPTIONAL WITHOUT EXCEPTION 
ml.com/careers/americas Merrill Lynch is an equal opportunity employer. 

Friday, November I I, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 13 

Sleepy students suffer in school 
Well-rested children remember lessons more easily, scientists say 
Associated Press 
WASIIINCTON -Staying up an hour or two past bndtime makns it far harder for kids to lnarn, say seinntists who dnprivnd youngsters of sleep and tnsted whnther thnir tnach­ers could tnll thn dill'nronen. 
Thny could. 
If parenL'i want tlwir ehildmn to thrive aeadnmically, "Getting t.lwrn to slenp on time is as important as gntting them to school on timr~." said psycholo­gist (;ahan Fallonn, who con­duetml tlw research at Brown Mndical School. 
Thn study. unvnilnd Thursday at an Anwrican Medical Association scinnr:e writnrs rnnnting, was eonduct11d on lwalt.hy childrnn who had no nvidtmcn of slnnp-or learning­rnlated disordnrs. 
Difliculty paying attention was among the problems the sleepy youngstnrs l'at~ed -raising the qunstion of whntlwr slenp dt"J)ri­vation could provn evfm worse li>r people with attnntion deficit hypnraetivity disordnr, or ADIID. 
Fallone now is studying that question, and suspects that slnnp problnms "could hit chil­drnn with ADIID as a double whammy." 
Sleep experts have. long warnnd that Americans of all agns don't get nnough shuteye. Slnep is important for health, bringing a rango of bmw fits that, as Shakespnarn put it, "kniL'i up the raveled sleave of cam." Not getting enough is linked to a host of problems, from ·car crashes as drivers doze ol'f to cripplnd mnmory and inhibited creativity. 
But exactly how much sleep correlates with school perform­ance is hard to prove. 
So Brown rnsearchors sot out to test whether teachers could detect problems with attention and learning when children stayed up late -even if the tnadwrs had no idea how much sleep their students actually got. 
They recruited 7 4 6-to 12­ynar-olds from Hhode Island and southern Massachusetts for the thrne-week study. 
For one week, the youngsters went to bed and woke up at their usual times. They already wore fairly good sleepers, get­ting nine to 9.5 hours of sleep a night. 
Another week, they were assigned to spend no fewf~r than 10 hours in bed a night. And another week, they were kept up latm than usual: First-and second-graders wero in bed no morn than eight hours and the older children no more than 6.5 hours. 
In addition to parnnts' reports, the youngsters wore motion­detecting wrist monitors to ensurn compliance. 
Teachers weren't told how much the children slept or which week they stayed up late, but rated the students on a vari­
ety of performance measures each week. 
The teachers reported signifi­cantly more academic problems during tho week of sleep depri­vation, the study, which will be published in the journal Sleep in December, eoneluded. 
Students who got eight hours of sleep or less a night were more forgetful, had the most trouble learning new lessons, and had the most problems pay­ing attention, reported Pallone, now at the Forest Institute of Professional Psychology in Springfield, Mo. 
Sleep has long been a concern of educators. 
Consider: Potter-Burns Elementary School in Pawtucket, H.l., sends notes to parents reminding them to make sure students get enough sleep prior to the school's yearly achievement testing. Principal John llaidemenos considers it important enough to include in the school's monthly newslet­ters, too. 
"Definitely there is an impact on students' performance if they come to school tired," he said. 
But the lindings may change physician praetiee, said Dr. Hegina Benjamin, a family physician in Bayou La Batre, Ala., who reviewed the data at the Thursday's AMA meeting. 
"I don't ask about sleep" when evaluating aeademkally strug­gling students, she noted. ''I'm going to start." 

Possible foie gras ban divides Chicago pols 
theological and doctrinal issues that will be addressed by 

Rev. Richard McBrien, Crowley-O'Brien Professor ofTheology 
Pope Benedict XVI, and what the change will mean for "A Change at the Top: Pope Benedict XVI"(Snite Museum ofAn) contemporary Catholics. 
11/19-Syracuse Maria Tomasula, Michael P. Grace Associate Professor ofArt, Art History and Design 
"Vast: The Art of Maria Tomasula'' (Snite Museum ofArt) 
For more information, visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu 3-112 hours before kickoff at the auditorium in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies (unless otherwise noted). For more information, visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu 
~.... UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
')1 Change at the Top: Pope Benedict XVI" 
Lawrence Cunningham 
john A. O'Brien Professor ofTheology 
M. Cathleen Kaveny 
john P. Murphy Foundation Professor ofLaw Professor ofTheology 
Rev. Richard McBrien 
Crowley-O'Brien Professor ofTheology 
The presentation will examine some ofthe political, 

Associated Press 
CHICAGO -In the city onee known as the world's slaugh­terhouse, restaurants, politi­eians and animal rights activists are worked up over a goose liver delicacy. 
A proposed ban on foie gras has divided Chicago's fine restaurants and stirred a two­pronged debate: whether it is humane to force­sty lo hot dogs with all tlw trimmings. 
"I nevnr thought this would happen in my lifetime. It feels so politically driven," said Hick Tramonto, the chef and owner of tho four-star rnstaurant Tru. "We're thn mnatpacking part of the country. We're the Midwest. We're farming states. It's strangn to mn that 
this is happnn­
ing." 
A City Council 

feed geese and "Pretty soon, committnn ducks to plump up approved the
you can't drink. " 
their livers, and ordinanee last whether politicians month, and the should be telling Richard M. Daley full eouneil diners what they Chicago mayor could votn this 
ean and cannot eat. 
"Our laws are reflection of our culture, and in our eulture it's not acceptable to torture small animals," said Alderman Joseph Moore, whose pro­posnd ordinance would affect at least 19 restaurants in Chicago, by one count. 
Chicago was onee "hog butcher for the world," as the poet Carl Sandburg so famous­ly put it. The vast Union Stock Yards were the setting for Upton Sinclair's muckraking novel "The Jungle," about conditions in turn-of-the-cen­tury meatpacking plants. 
While that era is long gone, Chicago is still very much a eity of carnivores, with its steakhouses and its Chicago-
month. But Mayor Hiehard 

M. Daley has made it clear he dons not like the idea of banning certain foods, grumbling, "Pretty soon, you can't drink." 
Hieh and buttery, foin gras, pronounced fwah-GHAll and Freneh for "fat liver," of'tnn is served sliced and pan-snared, frequently with fruit or atop greens or a cut of steak or veal. 
To fatten the livnr of water­fowl, a tube is inserted into their throats twice a day and partially cooked corn is pum pcd down the esophagus. Only throe foie gras farms ­two in New York and one in California -operate in the United States. 
Fall 2005 Schedule 
Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some of the most pressing issues of our times. 
~"~ 

9/17-Michigan State
~ 

Linda Przybyszewski, Associate Professor ofHistory "Catholics, Concubines, and the Constitution: 19th-Century Battles over Church and State" 
10/15-USC Thomas Slaughter, Andrew V. Tackes Professor ofHistory "Exploring Lewis and Clark" 
10/22-BYU James Md\'enna, Rev. EdmundPjqyce, CS.C, Professor of Anthropolot:Y 
"Caring (or Babies, Caring for Parents: What Human Infants Really Need and Why" 
1115-Tennessee Julia Braungart-Rieker, Professor ofPsychology, Associate Dean ofArts and Letters 
"Understanding Personality and Emotional Development in Babies and Children" 
11112-Navy Lawrence Cunningham, john A. O'Brien Professor ofTheology 
M. CathleenKaveny, john P. Murphy Foundation Professor ofLaw. 

Friday, November 11, 2005 

page 14 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
EGYPT 
Banned party 111akes inroads in parlia111ent 
Associated Press 
CAIRO -Egypt's ruling party secured the most seats in the first stage of parliamentary balloting, but the banned Muslim Brotherhood made its mark as well, sending 42 candidates to run-off elections. 
Run-offs will be needed for about 80 percent of the 164 seats, making it too soon to gauge the outcome of Wednesday's first stage of the three-part vote, seen as a test of President Hosni Mubarak's pledges of electoral reform. 
According to official but incom­plete results announced Thursday by the election commit­tee, the ruling National Democratic Party won 24 seats and the Muslim Brotherhood took three. Final results were expected Friday. 
The opposition said there were widespread irregularities at the polls, which were hailed by offi­cial state media as Egypt's freest balloting in decades. 
"Thugs are in control, low turnout and outrageous forging incidents," complained a head­line in al-Wafd newspaper, mouthpiece of the liberal party of the same name. 
The state-owned Al-Ahram countered: "The most free parlia­ment elections in 50 years." Al­Gomhuria, another government paper, proclaimed: "Egyptians chose democracy, not slogans." 
On Wednesday, 1,635 candi­dates in eight provinces and 82 constituencies competed for 164 seats. 
The large number of run-offs did not necessarily reflect the strength of the opposition, how­ever, as many of the 1,300 inde­pendent run-off candidates are loyal to the ruling party. 
Ruling party winners included Housing Minister Mohammed Ibrahim Suleiman, Finance Minister Youssef Boutros Ghali and other key party figures. The party will have 113 candidates in the run-off. 
National Democratic Party can­didate and former state security officer Yehia Wahdan won the seat of Ayman Nour, the Al-Ghad party leader. Nour became the country's best-known opposition figure when he was detained on forgery charges earlier this year; he was the key challenger to Mubarak in September's presi­dential election. 
Nour stole the seat from Wahdan five years ago, and the National Democratic Party led a tough campaign to oust him. During counting Wednesday night, Nour accused police of intimidating people not to vote for him and said his opponent's campaign bribed voters and stuffed ballot boxes. 
The other three decided seats went to candidates supported by the Muslim Brotherhood, the Islamic movement that was given surprising government leeway to field 51 candidates in the first round and run a strong cam­paign. 
"The group's performance was distinguished and good in all con­stituencies, but of course the vio­lations that took place prevented us from winning more seats," said deputy Brotherhood leader Mohammed Habib. 
He alleged that government authorities had expelled some candidates' representatives from polling stations and replaced some ballot boxes. 
The Brotherhood has 15 seats in the outgoing 455 seat parlia­ment and fielded 150 candidates overall. 
The Opposition Front, an alliance of 10 political parties and movements, did not win any seats in the first round. Five of its 90 candidates are in run-offs. 
The results revealed the weak­ness of traditional opposition par­ties, even after they united against Mubarak's party, which has been in power since 1979. 
The Brotherhood did score a victory on the eve of the elec­tions, when an administrative court ruled its controversial cam­paign slogan, "Islam is the solu­tion," did not contradict Egypt's constitution -which specifies Islam as the state's religion. 


UNITED NATIONS 

Employees to be reinstated 
Appeals body rules oil-for-food scandal did not violate staff rules 
Associated Press 

UNITED NATIONS-A U.N. appeals body ruled that the only employee to be fired over the Iraq oil-for-food scandal did not violate staff rules and should be reinstated with a public apology from Secretary-General Kofi Annan, according to docu­ments disclosed Thursday. 
The Joint Disciplinary Committee concluded that Joseph Stephanides was fired mostly because of the public scrutiny from an investigation that found the $64 billion pro­gram was poorly managed and corrupt. 
The ruling, obtained by The Associated Press, said the three-judge panel "sympa­thized with the applicant's argument that he was being made the 'sacrificial lamb' in this matter so as to give the impression to the world that concrete and decisive action was being taken." 
The committee is an inter­nal review body composed of 
U.N. staff where employees punished by the world body can file appeals. 
Annan is not required to accept the ruling, but will face pressure to act upon it from within the U.N. system and staff who believe criti­cism over the oil-for-food scandal was largely a smear campaign by the United Nations' critics. 
The ruling will be a new jolt to the secretary-general and the U.N. as they try to move on from the oil-for-food scan­dal and other problems ­including sex abuse by peace­keepers and claims of sexual harassment by the former 
U.N. refugee chief-that have made this year one of the worst chapters in the world body's 60-year history. 
Stephanides, who was accused of divulging bidding information related to an oil­for-food contract to Britain, had argued he was acting under the instructions of a 
U.N. Security Council sanc­tions committee. 
The 60-year-old Cypriot national had been scheduled to retire four months after Annan fired him. 
"This recommendation enables me to have an honor­able retirement which I really feel grateful for, nothing is more important than this," Stephanides told AP. 
If Annan does not act on the decision by Monday, 30 days after the ruling was made, Stephanides can demand a copy and go directly to the next appeals body, the U.N. Administrative Tribunal. Its decisions are binding. 
A senior U.N. official said a response was imminent even though Annan was on a trip to the Middle East. The official, who spoke on condition .of anonymity because the ruling was not yet public, said Annan's advisers were recon­sidering whether the punish­ment was too severe. 
The committee concluded that the order to dismiss Stephanides be rescinded, that he be paid any salary he missed and that he be allowed to retire. It also ruled that he be paid the equivalent of two years net base salary ­which he said was about $98,000 -because of the damage to his rights, reputa­tion and image. 
Finally, Annan must write him a public apology. 
Annan fired Stephanides on May 31, four months after the U.N.-backed probe of the pro­gram, led by former Federal Heserve Chairman Paul Volcker, accused him of taint­ing the bidding process over a contract to inspect goods going into Iraq. 
The committee said Stephanides favored Britain­based Lloyd's Register Inspection Ltd., enlisting Britain's help and sharing bid information over the contract in 1996. Lloyd's eventually won the contract. Stephanides claims that the process was politicized from the start. 
The ruling agreed that Annan didn't give enough weight to the oil-for-food pro­gram's complexity and "highly politicized nature," by which the U.N. Security Council wanted to spread contracts among various member states. 
On Stephanides' request, Volcker reopened his investi­gation into Stephanides over the summer. But Volcker's team reaffirmed its findings in a final report in late October. 
The ruling swept aside the findings of both Volcker's $35 million investigation and con­curring opinions by the U.N. Office of Human Resources Management and Office of Legal Affairs. 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CHORALE 
& 

CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR 
9:00 p.m. · Friday, November 18, 2005 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL DEBARTOLO CENTER fOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 
TICKETS $10/$8/$6/$3
liNIVRRSlTY OF NOTRE OAMR 

CENTER FOR !Hf. PERFORMING ARTS PHONE 574-631-2800 DEPARTMENT OF M{ISIC 

Friday, November II, 2005 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 15 
PERU 
E111bassador recalled frotn Japan 
South American nation faces diplomatic clash over former president 
Associa1cd l'rcss 
I.IMA -Peru said Thursday it was withdrawing its ambassa­dor from Japan to protest Tokyo's rnspons11 to l'nruvian attempts to extradite former l'msidnnt AlbPrto l.'ujimori, first from Tokyo and now from Chilo. 
Thn movn eamn a day aftnr .Japarwsn diplomats visited Fujinwri at llw polien training academy wlwrn lw has bfHHl lwld sincP hn was detained on an inwrnational arrest warrant artnr arriving in Santiago on Sunday. 
Tho l'nruvian l.'ornign Ministry, in a statnnwnt that was n-mail11d to Tho AssodatPd l'r"llSS, said l.ima WlL'i "tprminaling the fune­tions of 1'11ru's Ambassador to .Iapan I .uis Macchiawllo." 
A ministry ollidal told AI' that the ambas.sador's withdrawal r11prnsent11d a strong protnst but stoppPd short of br11aking diplo­matic rnlations ovPr Japan's rnfusal to nxtraditP Fujimori bdore his arrnst in ChilP. The oflkial spoke on 1:ondition of anonymity bncausP of the sensi­tive nature of tlw diplomatic aetion. 
Fujimori, a son of .Japanese immigrants. govPrrwd l'!li"U from IIJ'J0-2000 lwforP fleeing to .Iapan amid a corruption scan­dal. lin facns nearly two dozen criminal charges. ranging from allngPd corruption and abusn of powm· to sanctioning a paramili­tary dnath squad. 
Fujimori said bPlilre going to Chiln that lw plannml to launch a political conwback in his homn country, which is holding elec­tions in Apl"il. 
lin is rncognizPd by .Iapan as a dtizPn and citing that !act, Tokyo Foreign Minister Yasuhisa had dndinnd to extradite him to Shiozaki said Thursday in Tokyo. Pnru, whieh has no extradition Shiozaki said Fujimori is "in treaty with .Iapan. good health and seemed satis­
Peru's Foroign Ministnr Osear lied with his treatment, includ­Maurtura said he had mot ing meals," but {)Xprossnd eon­Tunsday with tho ehief of.Iapan 's corns about the safety of his diplomatic mission, Ambassador l~unily, who accompanied him to llitohiro Ishida, and rniteratml Chile. that Fujimori nnternd Chile last Mnanwhile, Chilean Prnsident wnnknnd using his Peruvian Hieardo Lagos said Thursday passport and that ".Japan lacks that Fujimori will haw) a fair authority to inter-extradition trial. vene in th11 extra-perhaps trying to dition process that dispnl tho growing Peru is pursuing signs of irritation
"Chile must hand
with Chiloan in the Chiloan gov­authoritios." over Fijumori." ern mont over Maurtura said Fujimori's arrival. he also exprnssnd Lagos com-
Mario Huaman 
"tlw Pnruvian plained narlier
unior leader 
govnrnmenl's dis­plnasurn ovnr the slowness and delay that .Japanese ollidals exhibitf1d with rnspPct to tho n1qLwsts for extra­dition that the Pnruvian govnrn­ment li>rmulated without obtain­ing a reply." 
lie noted that in comparison, Chilean ollidals aetod quickly to dntain Fujimori early Monday in Santiago, dting an 1932 extradi­tion treaty between the South Arnnriean nnighbors. 
Oflkials at Japan's Embassy in Lima said they had no immedi­atn eommnnt.. In Tokyo, Japan's Foreign Ministry ol"licials were not immediately available for eommnnt oarly Friday. 
Thrnn .Japanese Embassy olli­cials mnt with Fujimori on Wedn11sday to assess his health and to cheek the conditions at tho police training academy whorn hn has been held since arriving in Chile on Sunday, Vice that Japan did not 
alert Chile of the 
former ruh~r;s trip 
and said Japan must explain why it considers Fujimori to be a Japanese dti­zen. 
In Lima, about 500 trade union workers marched to the Chilean Embassy on Thursday to demand fujimori's spendy extra­dition. The protesters played drums and chanted "Yes, the killer ean be booted out!" and "Do not li>rget, do not lorgivn!" 
"Chile must hand over Fujimori," union leader Mario lluaman told The Associated Pn1ss as other protesters wear­ing Fujimori eostumns danend in front of the embassy gates. Police guarded the embassy, but no violence or arrests were reportnd. 
Hnsidents of victims of rnprns­sion under Fujimori also gath­ered in Chile to follow the extra­dition trial. 
Do you want a great summer job on campus? 
2006 SUMMER RESIDENCE HALL STAFF 
The Office of Residence Life and Housing is currently accepting early applications for 
summer staff positions. Going abroad next semester? Apply and interview before you leave campus. 
Applications and additional information are available on the Office of Residence Life and Housing web site at: 
orlll.nd.edU/employment 
Applications: on-line until Feb. II Interview sign-up: call 1-5878 Interviews: Nov. 16 -Dec. 9 
Interviews will be in 305 Main Building. 
OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 
Phone: 611-5878 1-Malh orlh@nd.cdu

oil&fi 
FRANCE 
Chirac addresses reasons for unrest 
Associated l'ress The unrest started among 
youths in Cliehy-sous-Bois angry 
PAHIS -President .laeques over tho accidental Plnetro<:u­Chirae for the lirst time direetly tions of two teenagers. but it addressed the inequalities and rapidly grPw into a nationwidn discrimination that have fueled wave of arson and nightly dash­two weeks of rioting across es bntwPnn rioters arnwd with France, saying Thursday that lirnbombs and police rPtaliating the country has "undeniable with tPar gas. problems" in its poor neighbor­The r.risis has lnd to a 1:oiiP1:­hoods. tive soul-searching about 
Violence continued to slow Franen's failure to integrate its under state-of-emergency meas­African and Muslim minorit.ins. ures and heavy polieing, with far AngPr about high unnmploymnnt fewer skirmishes and li1wer ears and discrimination has fanrwd burned. Police. meanwhile, sus­frustration among thn FrnndJ­pended eight officers, two of born ehildrnn of immigrants them suspeeted of beating a from former colonins. man detairwd during the riots. One 20-ynar-old who grPw up 
"Things arn rwar Paris in calming," Interior Clichy-sous-Bois
"Whatever our
Minister Nicolas said he had Sarkozy said on origins, we are all stoppPd looking Franee-2 telnvi-· for a job and
the children of the 
sion. "But that joined thn ram­
Republic, and we
doesn't mean it page. won't restart." can all expect the "MaybP I burnt 
Chirae had kept cars. I know it's
same rights. " 
largely silent about not very nien of France's worst me but, to bn hon­unrest since the Jacques Chirac nst, l am happy 1968 uprising by French President that things hnat11d 
students and workers, speaking publicly about the crisis only onee in a brief addrnss focused on seeurity measures. 
But on Thursday, he said that once order is restornd, France will have to "draw the consn­quenees of this crisis, and do so with a lot of courage and lueidi­ty." 
"There is a need to respond strongly and rapidly to the unde­niable problems faced by many residents of underprivileged neighborhoods around our· cities," he said at a news confer­ence held with Spain's visiting prime ministnr. 
"Whatever our origins, wn are all the childrnn of the Hepublie, and we ean all expnct the samn rights," Chirae said. 
But he also pointed a lingnr at parents, saying "too many minors" have joined the vio­lence, some "pushnd to tho lim~ by their elders." 
up nvnrywhnrn to 

lnt nvnrybody know that wn arn siek of it." said Ahmnd Zboul, hanging around a courthousn Thursday to support friends on trial for theft. 
Sarkozy, the intnrior minister, said f1~ar was the worst factor in the troubled areas, and vowed to dismantle gangs and bands of drug tralTiekers that hn said make up a tiny minority but ruin lifo for nvnryonn niS<l. 
"If wn gPt rid of those poison­ing tho livns of others, wo will havn taknn a lirst stnp," hn told Franeo-2. 
Tlw govnrnnwnt has taknn a tough stancn on riotnrs, with Sarkozy saying previously that local authoritins worn instrud!ld to dPport ti)reignnrs eonvicted of involvemnnt. 
The anti-raeism group SOS­Hadsmn said it lilnd a complaint over tho ordnr with tho Coundl of Statn, Franen's highnst adrnin­istrativn body. 
Why? United for Pakistan Earthquake Relief 
More. than 75,600 (17,000 children) killed Another 10,000 children at risk of dying due to terrain inacccssihility 20,000 children will have physical impairments and the numbers are increasing daily! 
lnltlrmation Forthcoming 
Cc-ft'le and ft-. c-.., Live ~uslc and Great.rC>c-d in ,._.c-Yeft'lber at. 
~ffVfR &~ 
FOOTBALL FRIDAv•s @!'FEVER 4TH APPETITE FOR DESTRUCT! ON 1 1 TH FREAKBO.X 18TH EARGASM 25TH DANGEROUS .JIM POST 
DOORS OPEN @? 9 $1 AND $2 DRINK SPECIALS 
22:2 SoUTH MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND WW"'tt/V_ C:LUBFEVER. BIZ 
~.2221TALIANSTEAt~HOUS.E.COM 

Friay, November 11, 2005 

page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Off-Campus Housingby Kramer Properties 
Leasing for 2006-2007 school year-Make arrangements now while the selection is largest 
• 
Close to campus • Student neighborhoods •Internet ready • 3 -10 bedroom homes 

•Security 
systems •24-hour maintenance staff •Dishwashers •Washers & dryers 


Call today -properties rent quickly. View houses at www.kramerhouses.com 
Contact Kramer at (574J 315-5032 or (574J 234-2436 
BLUE & GOLD HOMES LLC 
> Alumni owned properties > Starting at $250 per student > Free rent programs > Grad student discounts > Open leases > Single apts to large group 
homes > largest selection of weekend rentals 
Visit us at BlueGoldRentals.cam 
Or call us @ (574) 250-7653 


~ 
. 
.

L GREAT LIFESTYLE 
Turtle Creek Aartments 
Adjacent to Campus! 
Remodeled Apartments Available 
www.campuscribs.net 
1.866.395.4201 
1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 
CLOSESTTO CAMPUS 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Friday, November II, 2005 page 17 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Rox 779. Notre l>ame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CIIIEF Clairl' !Ieininger 
MANAGING EDIHJR 8LJSINF.'i.~ MANAGER Par Leonard Paula Garcia 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds A<;ST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas A~s·1: MANAGING EmmR: Hear her Van Hoeganlen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gonurnukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebctsch ADVERTISING MANAGF.R: Nick Guerrieri 
Au DF.~u;N MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WED ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(S74l 631-7471 
FAX 
(S74) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsmc@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
('i74) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(S74) 631-5313 
· NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-S323 obsm•ws.l@nd.t•du 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5J03 vicwpoint.l@nd.cdu 
SPORTS DESK 
('i74) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
('i74) 631-4540 sccne.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 ohsphow@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
('i74) 631-!!839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The ( )ho;erver is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ediwrial content. including advertisements, is not governed by policic.• of rhe administration ofeirher institution. Tht• Observer reserves rhe right to refuse adverri~emems based on conrenr. The news is rqxmed as accurately and objectively as JX>s.•ihlc. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief; Managing Editor, 
A.si.•tam Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns prescnr rhe views of the authors and nor necessarily rho...e ofThe Observer. 
Vilwpoint space is available to all readers. The free expre.'i.•ion of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and mu.•t include contan information. 
Quminm rrgttrding Obsm;n-policies should be dimud to Ediwr in ChiifClairt Htiningn: 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Ihe Olmrvcr (US~ ~·19 l-40001 i& puhli1hn.l Muu..l~y thn~ugh f:ri{!.ly uccpr during t'Qfn oUlcJ VJK.UI•"' perulda A IU~ttpl!tlll to lht' ()~rver la.$100 rur one o~cadcmic ycoar; 5~'\ fOrunrKIUrllrt 
The 01-:r~r ia puhlilol~•lllt' I'C l~ rMASTER 024 South DminK H.JI Send .tddrn.\ cnrrc;aion• to: None D.unc:, IN "'M')(..077Q llu:Obwrwr 1\onuchul pt"'~ p.1itl .., N11uc llamc: 1~0. Rm. 719 .uul .&~.IJuiun..al m.ulm~uffice1 014 X•urh Dining Hall 
Nulrt [);unc, IN 465"i6·1J779 

1l1c CltM.:-rvcr •• 11 mcrnhcr or the A\11Xia1nl Prtu. All reptodu,tion ri~w, ~trt rcwrwd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Sports  
Katie Perry  Mike Gilloon  
Knlly Meehan  Kate Gales  
Karen Langley  Ken Fowler  
Jenny I lames  Jason Galvan  
Viewpoint  Scene  
Sarah Falvey  Chris McGrady  
Graphics  Illustrator  
Kelly MacDonald  Robin Fallon  

Doubting duLac: ND critne and punishtnent 
duLac. 

Mention the coda of the University's formal name at a packed dining hall table and you'll inspire exaggerated eye-rolls, indiffer­ent sighs and pained looks of disgust. But these jaded reactions to "duLac: A Guide to Student Life" mask a pervasive lack of stu­dent understanding about the policies deseribed in Notrn Dame's thick gospnl of discipline. 
Few students bother to read duLac in its entirety, relying instead on an abundance of rumors and urban 
O Th
legends to shape their perspectives of the 

tain dorms and bars have a reputation fi>r lenience spreads rap­idly, as does news that others are eraeking down. What it all adds up to is a disciplinary picture that's dronehed in studnnt bitter­ness, but whoso true f()rm is lost in a fog of angnr and eom­plaints. 
In publishing a six-part series li>eusing on disdpline at Notre Dame, which begins today and continues through rwxt Friday. The Observer hopes to bring some darity to that picture. Drawing 
on interviews with the administrators who shape 
oserver the University's rules; the police, rodors and H.A.s University's disciplinary landscape. Nearly every who enforce them; and the studenl'> who abidn by Notre Dame undergraduate has heard about that and break them, the series hopos to push to the
Editorial
!,'llY who was kicked off campus just for drinking a 

beer in his dorm's hallway and about that girl whose rector twice caught her breaking parietals but let her ofl' without so much as a warning. Stories like these -some true, some not -contribute to a dimate of uncertainty and distrust, as studenl'i oflon struggle to reconcile the truth with the fiction, the apparent punishment with the !Time. 
Turning to each other for context, students bust!~d for under­age drinking at bars, parties and tailgates are quick to compare notes about hall staff and ResLile punishments. Chatter that cer­surface many of Notre Damn's festering discipli­
nary debates. Why aro some oll'enses punished more severely than others? Is having sex considernd worse than drinking underage? Than cheating on a test? When is lim:ing offending studenl'i oll'-campus an appropriate punishmont? lias it always been this way? Whose best interesl'> are at heart? 
Devoting straightforward attention to and encouraging eandid discussion of these issues can only bnnelit the Notrn Dame eom­munity. The Observer hopes this series ean serve <L'> a starting point. 
Pep rally system problematic 
Notre Dame seems to have a penchant for tickets and the com­plkat~~d distribution processes that go with them. 
Student attendance at filOtball games -both home and away -and men's basketball games is already tangled up in compli­eated tiekoting sehemes. Now the University has made tim mis­take of adding pep rallies to the mix. 
The newest process requires the non-student public to have tickets to enter the Joyce Center for pop rallies. This deeision grnw out of' Notre Dame's desire to avoid forcing fans to wait in long lines to see the pep rallies, only to turn them away at the paekod-to-eapaeity JACC's door-an admirable sentiment. 
But distributing tickel'i means the pep rally organizors need to savn seal'> for studenl.:;, which is where problems 
O J.!he

arise. I low many seats should be allocated for stu­userver aiming to keep student attondance at a eortain number -say, 6,000 -they need to make changes to the pep rallies tlwmselves. 
For the public, a pep rally is a novd evnnt. If' a l~tn from out of' town only has tickel'i to one football gamo pnr yoar, lw or slw will probably only sne one pep rally. So this attm1dne probably won't mind waiting in line, thon waiting inside tho .JACC, then sm~ing the hour-long pop rally at whkh tho football toam L'i only prespnt for half an hour. 
But students see things dill'erently. Six pop rallio~ a year, for which dorms show up morn than an hour early, bm:orne tiring. Studenl'i do not want to stand in tho bloaehers fi>r an hour and a half, then wait anothnr half an hour all.or the start of the pop rally 
to see what they're really thero to sen -tho lil!lt­
ball team, the limtured speakers and tlw band. Pep dlmls? rallies are supposed to fire up the student body. For the Tennessee pep rally last week, the and all the waiting around takes away from mud1
Editorial
Studnnt Activities Office valiantly ar!,rued in favor of allocating the most seats possible fiw students and sueceednd in eonvineing organizers to allow for 6,000 stu­dnnts. Unfortunately, only about 2,400 students attended, and seetions of the JACC stood empty, leading organizers to eut stu­dent seal.:; to 3,000 for tonight's Navy pep rally and for the Nov. 18 Syraeuse pep rally, the last of the year. 
While no estimate will be perfect, a reduction this sHvere inen~ases the likelihood that students could be turned away from the Joyce Center -a situation that could turn ugly fast. 
What's most puzzling, however, is that none of the organizers involved in setting the estimate of student sHals seems to recog­nize that student attendance is bound to fluetuate due to various impossible-to-control factors-time of year, quality of opponent, the football team's performance and so on. Students are more apt to attend the frrst and last pep rallies of the year and the pnp rally fi>r the highest-ranked opponent of the season. The other pep ral­lies will most likely have lower attendanee. 
And if organizers ehoose to overlook those factors in favor of 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
KANSAS 
BORED EDU&TtON. 
of that goaL 

In previous decades, pep rallies were short and sweet-paek in the studenl'>, march out the band and tlw team, and less than an hour later, everybody went homo exdted fill' tho football game. But the drawn-out pep rallies of' today-especially the often painfully unfunny student speakers -do not accom­plish that goaL If Notre Dame oxpeel'> 6,000 studenl'i to attnnd every pep rally, it should trim down il'i pep rally programming to the core elomenl'i -band, eoaeh, players, limturnd speakers ­that have exeited studenl'i for years. 
The most prudent course of action on the part of the organizers would be to return to the ticket-less admission system. Thnre should be a willingness to risk turning away people at tlw door rather than leave wholH sections of the JACC .empty -and the JACC would always be filled regardless of how many studenl'> arrived. 
But if Notre Dame would like to stiek with iL'> tiekel'i -as histo­ry has shown it is wont to do -then an elli)rt needs to be mado to tailor the pep rallies more to what studenl'i want to eheer for. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Do not anticipate trouble, or worry about what may nelJer happen. Keep in the sunlight." 
Benjamin Franklin author 
OBSERVER POLL 
What do you think of Notre Dame's disciplinary policies? 

Submit aLetter 
a. Not enforced 
b.
Too loose 

c. 
Inconsistent 



to the Editor at
d. 
Too strict 

e. 
Just right 



www.ndsmcobserver.com ­
*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.cum and is based un 444 responses. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 18 Friday, November 11, 2005 
Can soldiers be good in 'rotten' wars? 
It is most befitting that the midship­men from the United States Naval Academy clash with Notre Dame on the gridiron during this Veteran's Day weekend. Since it is a time of interna­tional conflict, the football festivities that salute this nation's warriors will be more poignant on campus. Nothing we civilians do can mean as much to the men and women serving in the military than to guarantee that our political leaders are fair in their adminis­tration and deploy­ment of those who protect us. That thought should be with us during our celebrations. 
Throughout the week the cable tele­vision stations have presented several classic war movies in honor of our vet­erans. In one of those black and white films, a single spoken line uttered by a World War II soldier has distinguished itself above the others and seems to ring true for every war. After men in his platoon commit an atrocity, a ser­geant asks his captain, "How can you be a good soldier in a rotten war?" 
All wars are "rotten" in every con­ceivable aspect. Mortal beings are asked to perform immortal tasks 

Gary Caruso 
Capitol Comments 
beyond human limits, endure unimag­inable conditions that under normal societal standards would not be accept­able for our pets and witness immoral brutality that most refuse to discuss when they return home. One cannot comprehend the affects of war on its military personnel and the affected civilian population until one has walked in a warrior's boots. 
The personal nightmares of those who fight in every war come from dif­fering conditions but are similar in their debilitating grip on our veterans. In the recent television miniseries, "Band of Brothers," the platoon leader faced his nightmare when he crossed the height of a Holland dike and quick­ly encountered an unarmed German soldier, alone and no older than six­teen. The American instinctively raised his rifle and shot the youth dead. Throughout the movie the American relived his nightmare, each time look­ing deeper into the eyes of the German youth. 
Any modern day war veteran will tell you that the three smells of war are rotting flesh, fuel and burning rubber. Most veterans cannot free themselves from various reminders of war when they return home. As hard as it is to block their horrors from memory, the World War II veteran will remember the unprecedented number of dead comrades and civilians that mounted daily in that great struggle. Korean War veterans will recall the massive armies supplied by the Chinese that overwhelmingly advanced as though their numbers would never diminish. The Vietnam War veteran will remem­ber the cruel mutilations enacted upon his American brothers' bodies as a per­sonal message of hate from the enemy. 

This writer first wore an Air Force uniform as a Notre Dame freshman during the height of the Vietnam War's unpopularity. My family has a long line of veterans who have fought both at the front line and behind the lines as well as been captured by the enemy. Nobody knows better the need to pre­vent war than one who has been in uniform. 
Today, too many who have never worn a uniform try to advance posi­tions that foster conflict rather than prevent it. It is the duty of every American to question why we are engaged in conflict, to question where we are fighting and to question when the war will end. It is not harmful to those in uniform to ask the hard ques­tions that will remove them from harm's way. 
We owe it to those serving today to protect them by holding those in charge of our government to fair and truthful standards of deployment. Too many of the National Guard -those who are supposed to be part time, local servants -are serving full time on the front lines. As a result, some of these 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Datne-Navy: More than football tradition 

The midshipmen of the United States Naval Academy come to Notre Dame Saturday for the 79th consecutive meeting between the football teams of Navy and Notre Dame. Although Notre Dame has dominated the series for the last 41 years, the history and tradition of the two inter­twined schools makes the game special. 
During World War II, enrollment at Notre Dame fell drastically. Students left in droves to serve in the war. On campus, women began to fill the jobs once held by student males. Many of the male students remaining on campus were ineligible to serve due to medical deferments. 
The Navy needed a place to train more men for war; and Notre Dame, financially strapped, needed assistance. Notre Dame offered Navy a place to train men. Thousands of young men came to Notre Dame for officer training in class­rooms, drills on the quadrangle and mass meet­ings in the theater and dining hall. 
' 
A neighbor's father proudly proclaimed himself 
1-a Notre Dame alumnus when I was a student at Notrn Dame. When he brought out his "year­book," I couldn't believe the pictures of hundreds of blue uniformed men in formations behind the familiar buildings of Notre Dame. He had been an "officer candidate" at Notre Dame during World War II and not a Notre Dame student at · all. But he was just as proud of his time at Notre Dame as any graduate. Years later, at a Navy change of command, a three-star admiral was introduced as the new leader of an important and prestigious Navy command. He rose and introduced himself by saying, "I was a member of the 1963 Naval Academy football team: the last team to beat Notre Dame." Thirty years after that athletic struggle, the admiral wasn't thinking about his own promo­tion and his own new job. First he wanted to remind us of a great game of triumph with his teammates. He brought us back to a great strug­gle and victory over almost insurmountable odds. That game in 1963, which Navy won by a score of 35-14, marked one· of the crowning achieve­ments in Roger Staubach's Heisman Trophy win­ning season. That same year, President John F. Kennedy was assassinated and Martin Luther 
King, Jr. gave his "I Have a Dream" speech. But some people still remember the Notre Dame vs. Navy game. 
Long before the 1963 game, even before World War II, people recognized the unique relation­ship between Notre Dame and the service acade­mies. In the 1927 Navy-Notre Dame game pro­gram, Rev. Mathew Walsh, president of Notre Dame, wrote: 
"Notre Dame, Army, and Navy make an ideal group for a football triangle. Their students live on campus, they draw their student body from all parts of the country ... The outcome of our games with the Navy and with the Army is not so impor­tant as that the best feeling of sport and good-fel­lowship always prevail. We are indeed happy to have Navy on our schedule: we trust it will con­tinue so long and so amiably as to become a part of our best loved traditions." 
One might add to Father Walsh's comparison a few other things. Notre Dame and Navy football teams are known to pray together. Both teams are known for never giving up. They always fight hard, even when considered underdogs. This team reputation is a reflection of the spirit and culture evidenced every day on the campus of Notre Dame and at the Naval Academy. At these institutions, ethics, moral courage and character still matter. People have a way of conducting themselves with honor and distinction at the Naval Academy and at Notre Dame. At these schools, people learn how to conduct themselves in life-in a way some just call "classy." 
At Notre Dame, above one door of Sacred Heart, one can find the words "God, Country, Notre Dame." At West Point and at the Naval Academy, one frequently hears words like "Duty, Honor, Country." The message is the same. 
At both the Naval Academy and Notre Dame one finds deep commitment to our nation and to service. The culture of Notre Dame and Navy sets these places apart, making this football game worth playing and worth watching every year. 
John Carey alumnus class of 1976 Nov. 10 

part-timers have acted "rotten" with prisoners or war. 
We owe it to those serving today to keep them acting as good soldiers by upholding the highest standards of freedom as their model. We cannot stand as the beacon of hope if we tor­ture prisoners. We cannot be the model of democracy if we refuse to state our opposition to torture in legislative ini­tiatives or give prisoners their day in court. We cannot continue to be the envy of the world if we have no moral authority to pass on to our troops. 
Finally, we owe it to those serving today to honor the reasons why they have volunteered to serve. They enlist­ed to protect and be a symbol of our nation's greatest attributes. It is heart­breaking after their deaths to watch them honored as fallen heroes without knowing that the purpose of their mis­sions are as lofty as their sacrifices. For if their missions have little pur­pose, if they have little sense and no exit strategies, the war in which they fight will be the most "rotten" of all. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a political strategist who served as a leg­islative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be con~acted at hottline@aol. com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Foster similarities 

As someone who strongly believes in the importance of stu­dent discussion, I would like to point out a few things that tend to get ignored. 
We are on a college campus. There are different opinions. People respond differently to everything. While it is beneficial to point out relevant issues, it is not beneficial to berate the individual people who decide to write in about these issues. A well-outlined and intelligent argument is far more convincing then is a "Joe is wrong because I firmly believe Joe is wrong" type response. 
For the conservatives out there, consider the opportunity to learn about things such as The Vagina Monologues, pro-choice groups and religious criticism your opportunity to effectively arm yourself for life after college in the real world. You don't have to accept things you don't believe in, but understanding them will make you more effective in combating them. 
For the liberals out there, don't consider every conservative statement an attack on our liberty. You have an important job -opening up this campus to new and possibly groundbreak­ing discussion on gender, politics and religion. Don't ruin your role by spending your time conservative-bashing. 
We work on' a system of checks and balances. Despite per­sonal abhorrence for one side of the argument or the other, each side would cease to exist if the other did. 
Just remember that what will make some people laugh will inevitably make others annoyed. Some like yellow, some like green. Some are Democrats, some are Republicans. Whatever you do you will inevitably annoy someone. We're not working for unanimity, but we are looking for common ground. Try to foster our similarities rather than ignore them and discuss our differences rather than having shouting matches across a wall. 
Laura Miller sophomore McGlinn Hall Nov. 9 

r--------------------~~-~ -----~~ 
Friday,November 11, 2005 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
Castle Point Apartments 574-272-8110 18011 Cleveland Road 574-272-8114 FAX 
•

South Bend, Indiana www.cppJ.com 
~"WWii(j,\i 

OffeRing Gueat ~' Rent Specials! 
C) Indoor/Outdoor Tennis and Basketball 
... 
0 Free Tanning 


0 Heated Pool 
0 Relaxing Jacuzzi 
. . C Gated Community 

·__ -0 Community Business Center 
. ···­

No Application Fees for Students 

uare own omes 
4 and 5 Bedrooms Available for Next School Year 
All include: 3 levels of living, private bedrooms, dishwasher, garbage disposal, A/C, washer & dryer, assigned parking spaces, and optional ADT security system 
For more information call Nicole at 574-514-2087 or e-mail at Nicole_Soko@hotmail.com 

. "--::.~:~'.:-"~:;.-~~~~~-~-~,<~ ': 
~ 

---------------------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 20 Friday, November 11, 2005 
'Design for Living' brings British humor stateside 
By LIZ BYRUM Assistant Scene Editor 
As students and staff enter the Philbin Studio Theatre this weekend, they will notice the atmosphere has been transformed to the look and feel of a 1930s nightclub. Notre Dame's Department of Film, Television and Theatre has begun its first week of per­formances of Noel Coward's witty comedy, Design for Living. 
This lively show made its debut in 1933 in Great Britain, and has remained a staple of British theatre because of its timeless themes of morality, mar­riage and the possibility of defying convention and refusing to conform to soci­ety. 
Design for Living focuses around the lives of a trio of upper-class bohemians who also share an intensely close friendship. The two males, Otto, a painter, and Leo, a playwright, both adore their female counterpart, Gilda, an interior decorator. Through a series of failed attempts at conventional mar­riage, Gilda comes to the real­ization that she might not have to choose between the two most important men in her life after all. At the suggestion of Leo and Otto, the threesome goes on to create their own unique life design. 
When choosing the play they will put into production, the Department of Film, Television and Theatre looks at many dif­ferent aspects of the perform­ance process. The department is always seeking input from students on potential produc­tion ideas, which the faculty then come together to discuss. The factors involved in the selection of Design for Living included which faculty mem­ber will direct, the number of students that can be involved with the production, the type of performance necessary and the level of training that can be incorporated into the process. The FTT production 

and other comedic produc­tions in which he has per­formed, Girts highlighted the fact that the British often have a very different brand of humor than what most American audiences are used to. 
"It is more wit than laugh­out-loud slap stick," Girts said. "You have to embrace the wit and trust your audi­ence to be smart." 
Vassel, a junior political science major, performed in his first FTT production two years ago, and has continued to be involved with the department since. lie describes his character, Leo, as the most dramatie of tlw three main characters in Design for Living. As the first friend left behind in the play, 
"Leo is also the one who does the most to get every­one back together again," Vassel said. 
Sarah Loveland describes her character, Gilda, as "artistic and bold for her time." She is unconcerned with what people think, and 
stretches the limits of 1930s society. So far, the experience of working on Design for Living has been a positive one of Loveland. 
"Siiri, our director, has been wonderful; really giving us free­dom to try new things, and at the same time pushing us far­ther than we thought we could go," she said. 
With a great compilation of people working on this suc­cessful play, as well as a closP location, multiple shows and a reasonable ticket price, there is no reason why a Notre Dame student shouldn't make a visit to DPAC to see Design for Living. 
"The less you know before you come, the better. If you can walk in with zero expectations, then you will have the most fun going on the ride," Girts said. 
Show times for Design for Living can be found on the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts Web site, www.performingarts.nd.edu. 
Contact Liz Byrum at ebyrum@nd.edu 
of Design for Living is being 
directed by Siiri Scott, an 
Assistant Professional 
Specialist for the department. Besides the three main roles in Design for Living, which are performed by Patrick Vassel (Leo), Michael Girts (Otto) and Sarah Loveland (Gilda). the play has at least 10 other cast members, including L u k e Cieslewicz, who plays the part of Ernest. Cieslewicz's character appears significant­ly in both the first and final act of the 

play, and, according to Vassel, makes a comical exit towards the end of the play. Apart from the actors involved, many other students play important production roles working 
behind the scenes as crew 
members. Girts, who is a first-year 
graduate student studying for 
his MBA, is a new arrival on 
the Notre Dame theatre scene. He stud­ied the­atre as one of h i s majors in under­graduate school, a n d received inform a­t i o n about the produc­tion just in time to t a k e p a r t . W h e n a s k e d about the differ­e n c e s between Design for Living 

Toyo Grill's unique tnenu serves up a fresh taste 
By JESSICA STOLLER Scene Critic 
Sushi is not an expected find in a city 700 miles from the nearest ocean, but take a trip down Edison Road past Movies 14 and there lies Toyo Grill. The restaurant specializes in providing an entieing array of the raw delicacy and is located only minutes away from cam­pus. 
Upon arrival at the restau­rant, it is apparent that park­ing space is limited in the busy shopping center where Toyo is located. After opening the first entry door, a lit, glass case showcasing the sushi options for the evening can be viewed. This can be intimidating for a first-time sushi explorer, but it is very helpful to view some of the options before actually sit­ting down with a menu. 
The first noticeable element in the dining area is the small, intimate atmosphere. The smaller size allows for conver­sations with friends without the bustle and background noise of a larger restaurant. However, if a large party plans to dine at Toyo Grill, arrange­ments ahead of time may be necessary. An LCD television screen is available for viewing at the front of the restaurant -Animal Planet seems to be the channel of choice. The atmosphere receives a rating of four out of five sporks. 
Service at Toyo Grill can be a bit confusing from the start. There is no podium for a seat­ing host or hostess, yet no sign directs visitors to seat them­selves. Luckily, a helpful wait­er or waitress is available to seat any puzzled customers that may enter. The wait staff is helpful, and willing to make suggestions to anyone who has never before eaten sushi. Some appetizers arrived after the meal, which was also a bit confusing. However service was fairly prompt and atten­tive. The service at Toyo Grill receives four sporks. 

Many options are available when dining at Toyo. While sushi is their main advertise­ment, selections from tradi­tional Japanese and Korean fare are also available. A large selection of appetizers is offered, and these pre-meal attractions are a great way to begin when taking time to decide on a main course or sushi option. Of the appetizers, personal recommendations inelude the deep-fried shrimp dumplings and the green onions wrapped in beef slices. The shrimp dumplings are served with a citrus-seasoned soy sauce that is the perfect accent to a rather mild-tasting dumpling. Green onions wrapped in beef slices ptovide an unexpected barbecue flavor that is sure to be an instant favorite. 
Main course options range from different types of noodles to meat and vegetable combi­nation dishes. The menu is diverse and contain.s enough choices for even the most sin­cere skeptics of non-western cuisine to find an enjoyable meal. If attempting sushi for the first time, recommenda­tions include the California maki or any other option rec­ommended by the server. The sushi rolls were delicious. However, they were very diffi­cult to eat for those who are inexperienced in the art of eat­ing with chopsticks. The food receives a total of four out of five sporks. 
Toyo Grill is an excellent place to dine for any casual occasion, and is a wonderful way to find some great food and to avoid long lines at larg­er restaurants on the week­ends. Three and a half sporks is the composite rating for Toyo Grill, which is definitely worth a trip ofT-campus to try. 
Contact Jessica Stoller at 
jstollO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 11, 2005 
Repeating as champion not such an easy task 
History is not on their side. 

Notre Dame will begin defense of its 2004 National Championship tonight when it hosts Valparaiso. If the Irish win back-to-hack titles, they will be the first Notre Dame team to do so since men's fencing did it in the late 1970s, and only the 


second team Bobby Griffin since a guy named Leahy Associate did it 1946 and Sports Editor 1947. Think about that. For all of Notre Dame's storied athletic history, only two teams in the last 58 years have managed to win two consecutive champi­onships -and for good reason. It's hard. College programs are faced with the reality that players come and go every year. The experienced athletes on the field one year are the inexperienced law students in the classroom the next. The window of success is nar­row. Universities realistically have two years with a specific group of players before there is a turnover. "By the time it seems like you really get everybody playing on the same page they graduate," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "That's why its so vital to get the depth in your program 
that we've been fortunate to have the last two or three years." 
Consider the 2005 North Carolina basketball team. Sean May, Raymond Felton and Rashad McCants came in as freshmen and struggled. After two years of coaching and development they won a title in their junior year. 
What happened next? The Tar Heels are not ranked in the pre­season polls after their top six players graduated or left for the NBA. 
Twenty years ago it was easier for teams to win multiple titles in women's soccer. North Carolina won nine straight from 1986 through 1994. But women's soccer only became an NCAA championship sport in 1982 and many universities did not support it right away. 
"I think the thing with Carolina is ... they really were the first team 20 years ago to put money into women's athlet­ics, and particularly women's soccer," Waldrum said. 
North Carolina-while still dominant-is not the only con­tender anymore because of the parity that now exists. The most a school can do now is build a program. These college dynas­ties no longer exist. 
"Now you've got so many teams that can win it, and you're not going to see that kind of run again," Waldrum said. 
But that doesn't mean the Irish do not at least have a shot at winning one more. 

Freshman Kerri Hanks has 62 points (24 goals and 14 assists) and senior Katie Thorlakson has 60 points (16 goals and 28 assists) this season. 
Fifth-year senior Candace Chapman has anchored a defense that has left goaltender Erika Bohn as a spectator for most of the season. 
"I really haven't had to do that much in the games so I'm just trying to stay focused if I do have to make one big save," Bohn said. 
And, perhaps most important­ly, the Irish are peaking at the right time. Coming off a 5-0 Big East championship win over Connecticut, Notre Dame has won its previous 10 games, outscoring its opponents 46-1. 
Not since a Sept. 30 loss at Marquette -a team the Irish beat 3-0 Nov. 4 in the Big East semifmals -have the Irish trailed in a game. 

It will be difficult, but if there is a group to become the first women's soccer team to win consecutive championships that is not Michael Jordan's alma mater, this could be the one. 
"We know what its like to lose early ... and we know what it feels like to win," Bohn said. "So we want to get that feeling back again." 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgrifji3@nd. edu 



,----------------------------­
Friday, November II, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Forward thinking 
Irish trio ofCinalli, Hanks and Thorlakson has opponents on the defensive 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 
!\ year ago, Katie Thorlakson had the burden of producing rn o s t of llw Irish of'l'e n s e, i\rnanda Cinalli was still lnarn­ing the ropes as a freshman and Knrri Hanks was playing for tlw United Stales in interna­tional eompnlilion inslnad of l1mding thn Irish with 24 goals in 21 games. 
l·:vnn so. Notre Dame domi­natml in the NC/\1\ tournament last Sllason and bnat UClA, 2-1 in penalty kicks, in a thrilling championship match. 
This year, the trio of' forwards is in full swing together, devas­tating opponents with the high­est-scoring oiTensn in the coun­try hiHtding into the tourna­ment. They have led the Irish on the limm's current Hl-game winning streak, outscoring opponents 46-1. 
"I think right now we're pmtking," Cinalli said. "I think wn'rn doing real well right now. Evnrything's dieking and every­one's having a blast." 
Cinalli is the lowest profiled of' Notre Dame's top three for­wards, but head coach Handy Waldrum says she makes an incomparable impact on the team. 
"i\manda Cinalli, who a lot of pnopln don't talk about, she's a great playm. And she's one of those players who can hurt you, too," Waldrum said. "We've got a lot of those weapons if we can just gel thmn dkking at the right time." 
The other weapons Waldrum rnfnrencnd arn Thorlakson and llanks. 
That duo became just the fourth tandem of teammates to break 60 points each in a sea­son Sunday during Notre Dame's 5-0 Big East Championship victory over No. 15 Connectieut. 
"Mn and Hanks, actually at the beginning of tho y11ar decided 
we wanted to "Everything's their title defense shoot for 130 clicking and tonight at Alumni points by the end Field.
everyone's having 

of the year," Cinalli said she Thorlakson said. knows there is
a blast." 

With 24 goals added pressure and 14 assists, when a team tries
Amanda Clnalll 

Hanks has 62 to repeat as
Irish forward 

points, and Thorlakson's 16 goals and 2X assists give her 60 points. Hanks said the duo knows they are approaching tho benchmark. 
"Obviously we set that target and we want to reach it bntween us," Hanks said. "But what we've accomplished right now is unbelievable." 
Reaching their goals 
Cinalli. who has seven goals and 15 assists on the season, said she doesn't focus on incH­vidual statistieal targets as mueh as team aehievements. 
"One of my goals is a team goal and it's to win another national championship," Cinalli said. "I guess you could say that every day I've been striv­ing just to work really hard in practice and challenge my teammates, and they always ehallengc me." 
Working for that team goal has produeed one of the most prolilk front lines in NCAA his­tory for the Irish this year. In just 21 games, Notre Dame's thrnn top forwards have com­playing intnrnational soeeer for bined for 151 points (47G-57A), a long time. With that nxperi­a dip of 7.4 points pnr game. nnce she's going to bn a bit 
Thorlakson espeeially has morn mature on the ball." usnd thn diversity of the Irish Hanks said her international attack to hnr advantage. She experienee will help in tho has combined with Cinalli, oxcited environment of tourna­llanks and her other team­ment matehes. mates for a nation-leading 2X "J think it hnlps out a lot," shn assists this year. said. "International level and 
Tlw trio has taken 231 shots college level are two dil'f'ei:'ent in thosn games, making the types of things but it does help 
combination the  getting  to  
country's  most  know  different  
feared offensive monster. Their shot total is nearly 140 more than all Irish opponents combined against  "This year, it's wide open­everybody's scoring.  styles and differ­ent players." Waldrum said Notre Dame's three-pronged attack prevents  
Notre Dame in the  defenses  from  
2005 season.  Katie Thorlakson  focusing on just  
In f'aet, with 122  Irish forward  Thorlakson, the  

shots in her fresh­man season, llanks has taken 30 more shots this year than all of Notre Dame's opponents have against the Irish defense. 
Hanks credited Thorlakson and Cinalli with that prolific total. 
"My teammates put me in the chances that I have to take the shots," Hanks said. "Sometimes the chances I get are just tap­ins.... Most of all it's my team­
mates that help  me  get my  
ehances."  
Thorlakson  said  Notre  

Dame's overwhelming shot advantage is, in large part, a result of the defensive work of the Irish forwards. 
"We have a pressure offense, so a lot of our attacks are actu­ally when the defense is trying to get the ball out and when they're off-balance and that provides us with more opportu­nities to keep the ball in their end," she said. 
Going for two 
The Irish hope to maintain that deeided shots-taken advantage in the NCAA Tournament when they meet Valparaiso in the first round of 
national champi­ons but said she has full faith in the Irish. 
"I think our team has the composure and talent to with­stand that pressure," she said. "We're totally confident that we'll make it all the way this year." 
To make it all the way to the College Cup (soccer's version of the Final Four) in College Station, Tex., the Irish must take every opponent seriously and use their experience to beat teams who have not played as many big games. 
Thorlakson and Cinalli each played in all six tournament games last year while Hanks competed for the United States in international competition. 
Thorlakson, a member of the Canadian national team, said Hanks' participation on nation­al teams gives her a competi­tive advantage over her defend­ers, despite her lack of NCAA playoll' experience. 
"She's just ... a natural goal scorer," the senior from British Columbia said. "She's been two-time Big East 
offensive player of the year, to shut down during games. 
"I think having IHanks and Cinalli] just makes it that much more difficult for teams because you just can't put a focus on Katie," he said. "You just can't do it." 
"Everybody's scoring" 
Thorlakson said Notre Dame's offense this year is bet­ter than last year's. 
"This year, it's wide open ­everbody's scoring," she said. "Obviously with 151 points between three people it's hard to key on one person." 
Thorlakson said the develop­ment of Cinalli and Hanks as otl'ensive stars has taken much of the offensive burden ofT her shoulders from a year ago, especially as the returning star on the defending national champions. 
''I'm looking forward to the tournament -nothing on my shoulders," she said. 
Though teams risk leaving Cinalli and Hanks open for shots when they foeus on Thorlakson, Waldrum said Notre Dame's opponents often concentrate their attenti-on on the senior. 
"''m amazed all the time at Thorlakson because she contin­ues to just get marked, she con­tinues to be the target, you know everybody's trying to stop her and she just continues to find ways to get points," Waldrum said. "Goals, assists, whatever it takes." 
In 2004, Thorlakson scored or assisted on 1 X of Notre Dame's 22 goals in the postsea­son, including a goal or an assist in each of the team's six NCAA tournament victories. 
Waldrum said he doesn't expect that kind of dominating performance from any of his players this time, only because the Irish have too many ol'fen­sive weapons to keep the others from finding the net. 
"Last year, IThorlakson) felt a lot of pressure to have to be the one to come through for us. I don't know if any one of our weapons will have )a perform­ance like Thorlakson's in 2004]," he said. 
With 151 points spread out between three players during Notre Dame's 19-2-0 regular season plus Big East Tournament, continuing the strategy of a diverse offense might be best for the Irish. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 


DUSTIN MENNELlA!The Observer 

Notre Dame forward Amanda Clnalll jukes Connecticut defender Kartyn Mlsells during the S.O Irish win In the Big East title game on Nov. 6. 
TIM Irish forward Kerri Hanks receives a pass during Notre Dame's 4-1 win over Florida on Sept. 2. 


page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 11, 2005 
Back to back 

Left, Irish defender Candace Chapman completes a throw-In during Notre Dame's 5-0 victory over Connecticut in the Big East Championship game on Nov. 6. Middle, Chapman 
(8) celebrates the conference title with Irish teammates including mldfielder Jen Buczkowski (9). Right, Chapman jostles for position during the win over the Huskies. 
said. "We moved it around a "I think she's kind of found
Irish senior has made 
lot in the beginning [of the her rhythm again as the out­season] and now people pretty side back," Waldrum said after
asuccessful transition 
much know where to be." Notre Dame's 5-0 throttling offrom offense this year That comfort level has been Connecticut Nov. 6 in the Big most apparent in Notre Dame's East Championship. "Playing 10 games since a 4-1 upset at her up front last year, it took By KEN FOWLER the hands of her a while to get 
Sporrs Writer Marquette. to the point The defense has "She's just so where she's flying held Irish oppo­composed and up and down the When Notre Dame won six nents to just one line again ... and
she's just such a

straight NCAA Tournament goal in a span of she's really been games a year ago to claim the 906 minutes cov­weapon coming out doing that a lot 2004 College Cup, Candace ering those 10 of the back. " for us the last few Chapman was a central part of games, and weeks." the Irish attack. opposing offenses Chapman said
Randy Waldrum 

With less than 18 minutes have managed the transition remaining in Notre Dame's just 15 shots on Irish coach was not too diffi­semifinal match against Santa goal. cult for her Clara, Chapman scored the Along with jun-because she only goal of the game after iors Kim Lorenzen and Christie played on the Irish defense in executing a flawless give-and­Shaner and freshman Carrie 2001 and 2002 before sitting go with Katie Thorlakson. Dew, Chapman and the Irish out the 2003 season, recover­
Both Thorlakson and defense have hounded oppos­ing from ACL surgery. Chapman are members of the ing forwards all year and pre­"I played defense my first Canadian national team, and vented teams from getting two years here. They only both are in their final seasons good looks at the goal. changed that [last year] when I at Notre Dame. Thorlakson said she and the went up front," Chapman said. 
As the Irish begin their rest of the Irish offensive play-In the conference champi­national title ers feel confident onship game, Chapman led the defense this when they' look Irish defense in the second weekend with a "She's just like a back to see half as Connecticut tried to match against Chapman leading mount an offensive attack to
rock back there. 

Valparaiso, the defensive cut into the Notre Dame lead. Thorlakson is She puts a lot of effort. Each time they thought they once again at for­confidence in the "For me per­had an opening, however, the ward, but the sonally, she plays Huskies found Chapman racing
players ... in front

fifth-year senior on our Canadian over to redirect crosses or Chapman will be ofher.'' team and I look block shots from the wings. back in her natu­up to her a lot," After witnessing four years ral position with Thorlakson said of such dominating perform­
Katie Thorlakson 

the Irish as a of Chapman. ances, Waldrum said he
Irish forward 

defender, leading "She's just like a expects to see Chapman's a unit that has rock back there. name as a central part of the surrendered just 10 goals in She puts a lot of confidence in future of women's soccer. 21 games. the players ... in front of her." "I think she'll be one of the 
Chapman, a team captain That confidence has grown future stars of the women's and vocal leader, said Notre over the past few months as game," he said. Dame's comfort level on the defense has shut out nine "Internationally she's going defense has skyrocketed of its last 10 opponents. to be one of the stars like throughout the course of the Irish head coach Randy we're hearing about the Mia 2005 campaign. Waldrum attributes much of Hamms and those kinds. She's 
"I think communication and the defense's recent success to just so composed and she's just just getting comfortable with the reemergence of Chapman such a weapon coming out of where everyone's playing [is as a premier back in the col­the back." key to the defense]," Chapman lege game. Though Waldrum said he was glad to have Chapman on the back line again, he thinks she can contribute to the offense as well as the defense. 
"She's just such a weapon coming out of the back defen­sively," he said. "She can keep you from playing because she's athletic and fast and she's a good tackler of the ball, but she creates a lot for us offen­sively." 
Chapman' statistics this year give credence to Waldrum's assessment. She has two goals and nine assists out of the defense, by far the highest points total on the team from the back line. 
Chapman said when she 
begins her final NCAA Tournament with the Irish tonight in hopes of leading the team to back-to-hack titles, she will not look past Valparaiso, even though her expectations for the tourna­ment are much greater than a first-round victory. 
"Going in as defending national champions, you know how easy it is to get knocked out, so you take it one at a time," she said. "[But] I think we should be confident going into the tournament. We have a great team." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

by the numbers 
Goals scored by Notre Dame in its previous 10 games, all of them victories. 
46 

1 
Goal scored by Notre Dame's opponents in the past 10 games. 
Shots per game Notre Dame is averaging this season. Opponents are only averaging 4.4 shots per contest. 
23 

95 
Goals scored by Notre Dame this season. Irish opponents have only managed 92 shots on the year. 
Wins by Notre Dame in NCAA tournament play. The Irish are 32-10-1 
3 2 

all-time in the NCAAs, including national titles in 1995 and 2004. 
Winning percentage by Notre Dame in NCAA tournament games at Alumni Field.
.893 

Shots by Irish forward Kerri Hanks in 21 games in 2005. Hanks alone has outshot Irish opponents by 30. 
122 

2 Teams in NCAA tournament history with more than one national championship-Notre Dame and North Carolina. 
... 
r---------------------------------~--~--------------------­

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, November 11, 2005 
page 21 
A brand new twist on 
greed and ambition 



By REBECCA CAVE 
ScTill' Wrirl'r 
William Shakespnare's Macbeth, a vioiPnt story of' greed and ambition, has lwPn uniqtwly brought to life by an PntirPiy f'emaiP east at Saint Mary's. From tlw dark. gloomy set to the bnau­Lif'ul rostumns and rkh <u:ting. tlw play is a •~aplivating and entertaining expe­riPrH·e. 
Mark Abram-Copenhavnr's direding brings together a strong f'emaln ensmn­ble and a unique stage design to niTer a dil'l'nrnrrt perspective on Shakns1wan~'s work. 
"It was thn shortnst of' Shakespeare's tragndins and allows the audience to hneonw involved with the story," Abram-Copenhaver said. 
lin hoped the audience would leave "intrigued and exeitnd" about the play­wright and his work. Abrarn­Copnnhavnr explained he decided to work with an all-female east not just f'or thn novnlty of' it, but also to c:reate a production that brought to life the many diiTnrent layers of' the tale. 
"Madwth is a morality play about gn~ nd a n d a rn bi t i on , " A b r a rn ­Copl'nhaver said. "It needs to make the audinnen look at the dark side of greed and violenen." 
By using a fmnaln east he hopes the audinnc~e has nnw rnactions to tlwsn nveryday oeeurrnnees. 
Thn ading throughout the play was Slii>Prh. Tlw entirn east maintained control ovnr the difficult Shakespearian language and the words f'lownd nasily and naturally drawing th•~ audinnen in. Ashleigh Stoehel t.urrwd in a pnrf'orrnanen so eonvineing as Madwth many in the audielll:n for­got slw was a woman and were entire­ly taknn in by lwr portrayal of the tor­t.urml man. 
Ashley Peltier's pc~rformanee as Macduff'. thn loyal friend of the king who is drivnn to rnvnngn whnn his fam­ily is murdered, was moving and strong. Crystal Schauf's performance as tlw l'ortnr was a show stealing l.our.h and provided comic rnlinf. ller 
BY OBSERVER PHOTO STAFF 

interaction with the audience was hilarious and addnd a touch of gaiety to the dark play. 
Othnr notable perforrnanens included the witches, who were frightening and mystical. standing seven feet tall. The nnsnmble work of the east was also exceptional. 
Fight scenns wern highly lwlinvable and nxtrnrnnly violnnt. The aetors trainnd nvnryday for a week with Knvin Asselin. a professional stage fight ehorn­ographer, and then threw times a wnek f'or a month. The action in thn play is nxtrmnely violnnt and at limns gory. 
The simple set consists of mainly a great hall door and several movable parts. The dark and ominous feel of the set fits perfectly with the themes of dnath and doom. The unique part of the set is that it allows the audience mem­bnrs to sit dirnetly on stage. Abram­
. Copenhaver also chose to eut two-thirds of the snats in Little Theatnr. "Little Theater rarely sells out and the empty spaces are distracting to the audi­ence. By having less seals the audience mnmbers arn doser to the action giving them a bettor experience," Abram­Copnnhaver said. lie also noted that it was an "educa­tional and unique experience for the actors." The performers in the play also agreed the small atmosphere was beneficial. "I l'enl the audience reactions to a greater extent because the actors are able to see the actual emotions on the faces of the audience," said Angela Sauer, who played Lady Macbeth. "The atmosphere gave me more ener­gy and helpc:1d me stay in character," Peltier said. Both agrned that it was great learning expnrinnee as actors. The set did pro­vide a unique experience for the audi­ence, but was at limes frustrating bneausn the audioncn members blocked adion on stage. Overall the production of Macbeth was an intriguing, frightoning and entertaining thcatrieal experience. 
Contact Rebecca Cave at 
cave8231 @saintmarys.edu 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, November 11, 2005 
MLB-AL 

White Sox not interested in acquiring Manny 
Vocal Red Sox slugger wants out of Boston 
Associated Press 
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. ­Kenny Williams was asked whether Manny Ramirez would be a good fit for the Chicago White Sox. 
"He's not that kind of guy," the general manager of the World Series champions said Thursday. "We have a certain kind of chemistry." 
Point made. Boston will not be dealing Ramirez to Chicago. 
While he had 45 homers and 144 RBis for the Red Sox last season, there appears to be a limited market for Ramirez, who asked Boston to explore trade options because he's uncomfortable living there. 
New Philadelphia GM Pat Gillick said there's no room for the 33-year-old Ramirez in the Phillies' outfield, which has Bobby Abreu in right and Pat Burrell in left. 
"Our corners are pretty good," Gillick said. "In high school he played center, but I don't think he can play center anymore." 
Last July, the Red Sox and New York Mets held trade talks about Ramirez, and both sides agreed they didn't get very far. The Los Angeles Angels, who want a pow~r hit­ter, could be a match. Perhaps Ramirez would want to return to the Cleveland Indians, his former team. 
Ramirez is owed $57 million during the next three years and has the right to block trades, so the Red Sox and his agent pledged to work togeth­er. 
General managers completed the formal part of their meet­ings Thursday, delaying until their December meeting in Dallas a decision on whether to move back the amateur draft until late June. 
Jimmie Lee Solomon, execu­tive vice president for baseball operations in the commission­er's office, said commissioner Bud Selig was asked during Wednesday's sessions whether he expected any change in the designated hitter rule, which is used in the American League but not in the National. 
"He said for the foreseeable future we'll be doing the same thing we have been doing," Solomon said. 
During the week, GMs bandied about big names for possible deals, including Ramirez, Florida first baseman Carlos Delgado, Texas second baseman Alfonso Soriano and Tampa Bay closer Danys Baez. Yankees general manager Brian Cashman said teams always are interested in right­hander Chien-Ming Wang and second baseman Robinson Cano, rookies who performed 
well  last  season  with  low  
salaries.  
"That's  what  November,  

December and January are for, exploration of the possibilities of big ideas, big trades, trans­formations of rosters," Red Sox president Larry Lucchino said. 
Starting Friday, more than 175 free agents will be able to negotiate contracts with all teams. The market could go up significantly for relief pitchers, who appear to be coveted. 

While closers such as Billy "People are being very says he must be put on uncon­Wagner and B.J. Ryan figure to aggressive and getting right to ditional release waivers if he get big money, there's likely to the point as to what doesn't agree to a be a trickle-down to setup men they are willing to new deal by
"We have a
such as left-bander Scott Eyre do and what Tuesday. and right-hander Bobby they're not willing certain kind "We've got to the Howry. to do," Williams of chemistry.,, 15th to try to get 
"Everybody needs pitching. said. something done," There's not a lot of pitchers While the Cashman said. out there," Gillick said. "So Yankees are seek­Kenny Williams "In the mean­supply and demand." ing a center fielder White Sox GM time, I'm gathering 
Because of the relative lack and setup men, all the information of depth in the free-agent mar­their immediate about what the ket, many teams are exploring goal is to re-sign left fielder available players on the trade trades first. Hideki Matsui, whose contract market and the free-agent market are. We'll prioritize those. In the event on Nov. 16 we don't have Hideki Matsui, it will be another avenue to pur­sue." 
Mets general manager Omar Minaya said he planned to be aggressive and probably would start making offers to free agents Friday. He said it is likely New York won't trade Mike Cameron. 
"If I had to guess right now, I see him as my right fielder," he said. 


Now, 
all your incoming calls can be free. 
Offer valid on two-year serviCe agreement on local and regional plans ri S39.95 01 higher. All service agreements subject to an eru1y termination fee. Credit approval required. $30 activation fee. $15 equipment change fee. Roaming charges, fees, SUICharges, overnge chaigeS and taxes apply. S0.96 Reguia1Dry Cost Recovery Fee applies. This is not a tax or gcmmment-required charge. Local netwo11< coverage and reliabDity may vary. Usage round· ed 1-'l tu the next fuH minute. Use of service constiMes acceptrnce 01 our fBnns and COO!itions. Unlimited Night and Weekend Minutes valid Monday through Friday 7:00p.m. tu 6:59a.m. and all day Saturday and Sunday. Night and Weekend Minutes are available in 
!iffers from national calling area llnllmlted CAU ME"' Minutes are not deducted from package minutes and are only available when ffieeiV· Mobile Messaging: Users must be in their digital local calling area for service to WO!k. Functionality may depend on other can1ef's networ1<s 
CfBr limit per message for text messaging. U.S. Cellular not responsible for content of messages. Acharge of 10t per outgoing message applies Wno messaging pacl<age is selected 01 eXiSting package llmrt is exceeded. By USing U.S. CellUlar's MoiJIIe Messaging you agree to be bound by an terms and conditfons viewable at www.uscellula!:COOVMessaglngtenns. Picture Messaging only available ill easyedge" coverage area (see rate and map sheet for details!. You may be charged for picture messages sent from )'OlW pllone, even Hnot delivered to the intended recipient due to system or compatibility issues. You will not be charged far picture messages sent to your phone. U.S. Cellular is not responsible for content of pictures. easyedge is the proprietary mark of United States Cellular Corporation. Use of the Alii! lnSiant Messenger• servk:e mobile application requires easyedge data serviCes. The AOL~ lnslllnt Messenger'" service Free Tnal shan not exceed morn tim one full day's time. Other restrictions apply. See stom for details. Umited ijme offer. 02005 U.S.Cellular Corporation. e 2005 Oef Jam Mollie and AG Interactive are trademar1<s and serviCe mar1<s of the~ respective owners.All rights tese!Ved. 
hiday, November II, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

-
page 24 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, November II, 2005 
MLB-AL 
Rays prepare for the future 
Tampa Bay looks to develop young talent and keep its veterans 
Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. Piece by piece, the Tampa Bay Devil Rays are laying the foundation for what new own­ership expects to be a bright future. 
Center fielder Rocco Baldelli signed a long-term contract Thursday that guarantees him $9 million over three years and could be worth $32 mil­lion for six seasons, a move reflecting principal owner 

' Stuart Sternberg's commit­ment to keep a promising core of young talent together. "He and Carl Crawford rep­resent two premier building blocks of the organization," team president Matt Silverman said.. Last April, Crawford signed 
a similar six-year deal that could be worth up to $32.5 million. Baldelli's contract is designed to keep the young outfielders in the same lineup well into what the last-place Devil Rays expect to be a dra­matic turnaround on the field. 
The 24-year-old Baldelli is viewed as one of the keys to the future, even though he missed last season with knee and elbow injuries. He hit . 289 with 11 homers and 78 RBis as a rookie in 2003 and batted .280 with 16 homers the following year. 
The speedy center fielder tore a knee ligament playing with his younger brother in the backyard of their Rhode Island home in October 2004. l-Ie was on the verge of rejoin­ing the Devil Rays last sum­mer when he tore a ligament in his right elbow and had to undergo Tommy John surgery. 
Silverman said team doctors examined Baldelli and gave him a "clean bill of health." 

CLASSIFIEDS 
"That news, combined with Rocco's great work ethic and dedication to his rehabilita­tion, gave us the confidence to make this deal," Silverman said. 

Baldelli negotiated terms without help from an agent, meeting several times with executive vice president of baseball operations Andrew Friedman. Baldelli had agent Casey Close review the con­tract language. 
Baldelli said he wasn't as interested in maximizing his earning potential as he was in remaining with Tampa Bay. 

~·1 didn't sign this deal just to get a deal done. I did it because I like the direction the organization is going," Baldelli said. "I want to be a part of this team going on to build a winning tradition." 
His deal guarantees him $2 million next year, $750,000 in 2007 and $2.25 million 2008, but if he has 600 plate appearances next year his 2007 salary goes up to $2.5 million and his 2008 salary increases to $4.5 million. 
Tampa Bay has a $6 million option for 2009 with a $4 mil­lion buyout. If the Devil Rays exercise that, they get an $8 million option for 2010 and a $9 million option for 2011 that must be exercised togeth­er. Those options carry a $2 million buyout. 
Former Houston Astros gen­eral manager Gerry Hunsicker was hired last week to work with Friedman, who has final say on baseball moves. 
The next step likely will be the hiring of a manager, with Friedman expected to choose between Los Angeles Angels bench coach Joe Maddon and incumbent Devil Rays bench coach John McLaren. 

Former New York Mets manager Bobby Valentine was also a finalist. However, he's been considered a long shot from the start because the Devil Rays are not likely to spend. the millions it might take to pry him away from his current job with Japan League champion Chiba Lotte. 
NFL 

Forn1er star linen1an killed by a falling tree 
Steve Courson was a vocal opponent of steroids in the league 
Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH Steve COurson, the former offensive lineman for the Pittsburgh Steelers who developed a heart problem after becoming one of the first NFL players to acknowledge using steroids, was killed Thursday when a tree he was cutting fell on him. 
Courson, 50, was using a chain saw to cut down a dead 44-foot tall tree with a circum­ference of 5 feet when it fell on him, according to state police. The 
accident happened "Steve was an cocaine," Courson around 1 p.m. at integral member of said in 1990. his home in Henry "When most peo­
our last two Super 
Clay Township, ple imagine drug 
Fayette County. Bowl championship abusers, their Messages left for teams." thoughts are of the county coroner street people liv­were not immedi­ing in the gutter.
Pittsburgh Steelers 
ately returned. Realistically, these 
statement
Pastor Lois Van people can't all'ord 
after he retired from football. Steve battled back from health problems in recent years and seemed to have made a full recovery." 
Courson was an early outspo­ken opponent of steroid use in the NFL, though he had used them himself and blamed them on a heart condition he said placed him on a transplant list for four years. He credited diet and exercise with reversing the condition. 
He went public with his steroid use in 1985 and was cut by Tampa Bay the next season. He also criticized the NFL's steroid testing program, which began a year after he retired. 
"It's as much drug abuse to 
take steroids as 
heroin or 

Orden, who was with Courson's mother, Elizabeth, at her Gettysburg, Pa., home, said the family had no immediate comment. 
Courson made the Steelers in 1978 as a free agent guard from South Carolina. He started more than half of the Steelers' games before he was traded to Tampa Bay in 1984, where he played another two seasons before being waived. He ended his career after the 1985 season, having played on the Steelers' Super Bowl championship teams in 1978 and 1979. 
In a statement, the Steelers said: 
"We are saddened to learn of the sudden and untimely death of Steve Courson. Our deepest sympathies go out to his family and friends during this extreme­ly difficult time. 
"Steve was an integral mem­ber of our last two Super Bowl championship teams, and returned to the Pittsburgh area 
drugs, but profes­sional athletes and middle and upper class teenagers can." 
Courson testified about steroid use before Congress last spring. 
Earlier this year, Saints coach Jim Haslett claimed the Steelers' use of the drugs during Super Bowl championship sea­sons in the 1970s brought steroids into vogue around the NFL _ even though star players such as Jack Lambert and Jack Ham were strongly opposed to drug use. 
"To say that anabolic steroids didn't play a role in the Steelers' success would be a falsehood," Courson said in 1990. "But this isn't a Steelers problem. It's a league-wide problem .... No one ever told me not to use or take steroids, or suggested I was killing myself." 
Courson was a native of Gettysburg, and played from 1973 to 1977 at South Carolina, where he said he first used steroids at age 18. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 J.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Caring, organized individuals needed to place exchange students in local NOTICES schools and host families. Earn a 
per-student stipend and possible travel to Europe. 888-266-2921 or 
SPRING BREAKERS Book Early sumckeen@ ie-usa.com 
and Save Lowest Prices Hottest Destinations BOOK 15=2 FREE 
TRIPS OR CASH FREE 
MEALS/PARTIES BY 11/7 Highest 
FoR SALE 
Commission Best Travel Perks www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800-426­7710 NO FANS For Sale: Cabin 25 mi. 
from ND. Wooded gated community 1-bedroom apt 1-mile from NO in with lake access. 3 BD 2BA loft, quiet historic neighborhood, screened porch, FP, $295,000. Call $575/month. Call 283-0325 619-606-8815. 
FoR RENT 
NOTICES 
YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apart­
ments available for 06-07 school CHRISTMAS HELP NOW! $12.25 year. Call today 235-7234. base/appt. Flexible schedules around classes, customer sales & service, Rooms in private home for rent dur­conditions apply, all ages 17 & older. ing NO football weekends or other Call Now! 574-273-3835. ND-SMC events. Call 243-0658. 
Fashion Designer seeks NO Rep. WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM Hedyhandbags.com HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532­206-226-6003 1408 KRAMER PROPERTIES HAS 1 SIN­GLE FAMILY HOME AVAILABLE. 140 N.SHORE BLVD. 3 BED­ROOMS, 1.5 BATHS. GREAT FOR PROFESSORS,STAFF, OR GRAD STUDENTS. CALL 315-5032, ASK FOR KRAMER. 
3-6 bdrm homes for 06/07. Also avail.now. 574-329-0308. 
For rent: Two story house completely remodeled 2003. Ready for immedi­ate occupancy or next semester or next school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for secu­rity. Four individually locked bed­rooms, central station monitored security system, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student housing, Laundromat next door, basement available for storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc. ,new furnace and central air, new kitchen including new stove and refrigerator, large living room for TV or entertain­ing, free trash removal. Call 289­4071. 
123 NO Ave. 3 bdrm, 1.5 bath. Call 574-229-0149. 

House for rent. 3 BR, 1 BA, 2 Car Gar. Clay Area. $700/mo. 574-21 0­8308. 
908 SB Ave: Roomy 6-7 bdrm home 4 blocks to NO. 2 baths, w/d, broad­band internet incl. Avail. 06-07 & 07­08 school year. 327 Hill St: NEED A HOME TODAY? NEED A SECOND CHANCE? Very nice 3 bdrm home. Close to ND & Corbys. Broadband internet option. W/D & alarm system avail. Move in today. Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 or email JCrimmins@ myLandGrant.com 
GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH­BORHOODS 06/07 & 07/08 andersonNDrentals.com 574-233­9947 
KRAMER PROPERTIES HOUSES FOR LEASE FOR THE 06/07 SCHOOL YEAR. CLOSE TO CAM­PUS. 4 BEDROOMS, UPTO 10 BEDROOMS. CALL 315-5032 ASK FOR KRAMER. 
Furnished 1 bedroom condo (Ivy ResidentiaVJamison) 11/21105­May,2006. Call Mary Anne Benedict 607-723-7363 or 607-770-0944. 
Area Houses and Apartments for BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT-rent. Log on to MichianaRentals.com BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. Caii574-993-RENT (7368). 273-3911. 
HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6 WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. TOP bdrms includes all utilities,local $$PAID. 251-1570. phone,washer/dryer,security system. $400/student. 57 4-315-2509 ndstu­dentrentals.com 2006 SPRING 
PERSONAL 

SEMESTER NOW AVAILABLE. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Walk to ND. Rooms for weekends. not go it alone. If you or someone Best rates. Kitchen. 272-0842. you love needs confidential support 
or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Spring sem -Sr. seeks 2 house-Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more mates. 574-309-3105 information, see our bi-weekly ad in 
THE OBSERVER. 

4-student house 06-07.Walk to NO. Air,laundry, ADT security. 574-287-SPRING BREAK-Early Booking 4961. Specials-FREE Meals & Drinks -$50 
Deposit-800-234-7007 www.end­2 bdrm,fum house, sleeps 5. lesssummertours.com Week/weekend (2 day min.) New 
Carlisle area (574)514-1669. Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 Days from $299! Includes Meals, MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica From $499! 
TICKETS Campus Reps Needed! PromoCode:31 www.springbreak-FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. travel.com 1-800-678-6386 
289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE FOR$$: www.victory1ickets.com Beaucoup de Shell Silverstein. 
-
hiday, November 11, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
NFL 
Warner ready to lead injury-riddled Cardinals 
Assndatcd Press 
1>1\TIWIT -The Arizona Cardinals and tlw Detroit Lions waited until midwnek to choose a starting quartnrbaek. 
Kurt Warner got the nod for tho Cardinals instead of .Josh MeCown, and .lony !!arrington dung onto tho job ovnr a bangnd-up .Jeff(iarda. 
Hegardless of who takes the snaps for tlw Lions (3-5) and Arizona (2-(,) Sunday in l>ntroit, focusing on tho quartnrbacks for tho hapless t11ams only over­looks tho glaring problems naeh 
hav1~. 
"Wn have so many other issuns to bn a good football team," Arizona eoaeh Donn is Grnnn said. "I think our quar­tnrhaek play is OK, but a lot of otlwr players are not OK." 
l>amien Woody said the samn is trun in Dntroit. 
"The nasinst thing to do is to point to tho quartnrbaek, espe­cially when the position is in llux," tlw guard said. "A lot of things arn going wrong with our tnam. It's not just the quartnr­baek." 
OfTnnsivn linn is pnrhaps the No. I eoneern for both Diltroit and Arizona. 
Knvin .Jones ran for S7 yards in Wonk I for thn l.ions in a win ovnr c;roon Bay, and hasn't rnadwd that total sinee because lw's usually dodging defenders in tho haekfield. As a tnam, the Cardinals have not had 100 yards rushing in a game with Marenl Shipp and rookie .1 ..1. Arrington sharing rarries. 
lnjurins have depleted the Cardinals and Lions, nroding tlwir small margin of error. 
Hernivnr Anquan Boldin, dnfnnsivn end Bnrtrand Berry, nose taekln Hussnll Davis and rookie eornnrback Antrnl Holle are among the key players missing from Arizona's lineup. The Lions havn missed starting cornerbacks Dre' Bly and Fernando Bryant, rnecivers Roy Williams and Kevin Johnson and dnf'ensive tackle Shaun Hogers because of injuries. 
Detroit might be without rookie recniver Mike Williams this week, but nxpncts to get a boost from Hoy Williams and Charles Hogors on ofl'onse and Sh<wn 
Hognrs on 
'Tm excited to get .
defense. Williams said. 
Charles Hogers back, and do the Hookie Mike was eligible to things I do best." Williams, ham­
play last week pered by a few after serving a ailments, has not 
Charles Rodgers
f'our-gamn suspnn­scored since the sion for violating Lions wide receiver opener. 
the NFL's sub­stance abuse poli­cy, but he didn't even travel to Minnesota· bncauso he had a poor week of praetice. 
''I'm just thinking about this week. Last week was last week," Hogcrs bristled. "It's a new week, we'll see what hap­pons. 
''I'm excited to got baek, and do the things I do best." 
Tho slight might have jolted tho second overall piek from 2003, because on Wednesday he was sprinting and making sharp cuts during practice. Each timn Hognrs made a play, his teammates made an effort to encourage him. 
Detroit desperately needs Rogers to turn his career around because he was the first of' throe straight receivers draft­ed by l>ntroit in the first round -a first since the NFL and AFL merged drafts in 1967. 
Hogers has played just nine games in three years, missing most of two seasons with collar­bone injuries, and has scored only once sinen catching two touchdowns against Arizona in his professional debut. 
Hoy Williams has also· been slowed by injuries in his two seasons, and by some miscom­munication with coach Steve Mariueei about his injured quadriceps in last week's loss against the Vikings. 
"llopel'ully, I'll 
play more than 
throe plays," 



Green said the 
Lions have strug­gled on offense because their trio of' young receivers has barely played together. 
"Those guys have size, they can go get the ball, they can stretch the field," he said. 
The Cardinals haven't made many good moves over the years, but they made a good choice with the third piek over­all in 2004. 
Heeeiver Larry Fitzgerald led Arizona, and was second among rookies, with 58 recep­tions and eight TDs last season. He is among NFL leaders with 52 receptions and has 713 yards receiving and four TDs. 
Fitzgerald said he's not con­cerned his play will be all for naught on a bad team the rest of this season, and in the years to eome. 
"I don't have that kind of stinking thinking," he said. 

2006-2007 RESIDENT ASSISTANT APPLICATIONS 
will be available in the 
Ojjh:e ofStudent A.flairs 
316 Main Building beginning Monday, November 14, 2005 
through 
Friday, Januar·y 20, 2006 


Applications will also be available for downloading and printing at 
http:/losa.nd.edu or http://osa.nd.edu/join hall staf'f/ra.shtml 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 11, 2005 
NFL 
Davis and Martin refuse to give in to 'old age' 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -There's a long-standing theory that a running back's road goes uphill once he turns 30. 
Stephen Davis and Curtis Martin are both out to disprove that notion. The two aging run­ning backs square off this Sunday when Martin and the New York JI"Jts (2-6) travel to play Davis and the Carolina Panthers (6-2). 
Despite hitting that perceived 30-year-old plateau -Davis is 31 , Martin is 3 2 -both backs are doing their best to stave off the effects of Father Time. 
"I don't believe in being 30 and you're over," Davis said. "But [Martin) is having a great year, and I'm having a pretty good year. The thing is every­body always counts us guys out, but we just 
from the Raiders, and he ended 
up having a great career for us 
there," Edwards said. "There 
are guys who are like that and 
you never question it when you 
are around them. 
"I think some people always question the age of a running back, and, for the most part, they are right because there .are so many runners and their legs, when you get to that num­ber, they generally dwindle away. These two guys are defi­
nitely an exception to the rule." 
Martin will have his work cut 
out for him this Sunday against 
the Panthers, have been impos­
sible to run on during their cur­
rent five-game winning. 
Carolina ranks first in run 
defense, allowing just 7 4 yards 
per game, and has only given 
up live touchdowns rushing on 
the year. 
And no runner 
since Ronnie 

keep on ticking."  "/ don't believe in  Brown in Week 3  
Davis, who had major knee sur­gery last season  being 30 and you ,re over. ,,  has gone for more than 100 yards against them.  
that  many  "I think they're  
believed  would  Stephen Davis  probably one of  
end  his  career,  Carolina running back  the best defenses  

heads into the game with 11 touchdowns rush­ing, third best in the NFL. Yes, the rest of his numbers are down this season at just 406 yards rushing so far. 
But he's playing in an ofl"ense that is clicking behind Steve Smith, who leads the NFL in every major statistical receiving category. 
Martin's numbers are also ofT his normal pace, at just 533 yards rushing and five touch­downs and a career-low 3.4 yards per carry. 
But he's been battling through a sore right knee all season and a slew of injuries that have dec­imated his offensive line ­leaving him with just one starter playing in the same spot as opening day. 
It's troubling for Martin, who won the NFL rushing title last season with 1,697 yards. But he insists the 30-year-old theory can be beat. 
"I think it depends on the guy ... [but] the older I've gotten, the better I've done," he said. "I think that a lot or times, that does occur with the average guy. I think guys like myself, Stephen Davis and a lot of other backs, aren't normal or average and that is what has allowed us to continue and excel beyond the age of 30. 
"I feel that the older I get, the better I should get. Last year, I was 31 and we led the league in rushing." 
Still, no matter where Davis and Martin go, they can't escape questions about their age and people who believe that time is quickly running out on their careers. 
Even their coaches put some stock into the age barrier. 
"This is definitely a young man's game, there is no doubt about that," Carolina coach John Fox said. "But I am not sure 30 is ancient yet with any position. There have been guys dispel that at really every posi­tion there is on the football field." 
Jets coach Herman Edwards in the NFL," 
Martin said. "It's 
going to be diffi­cult to run, but you can't take that into consideration when you are a running back. You have to plan on going out there and doing your job .as best as you can and see what happens when the game is over." 
The Panthers believe Martin will be one of the better backs they'll face this season, and look back at the last time he played them as inspiration: Martin ran for 159 yards and caught seven passes for 39 yards in a 2001 Jets victory. 
"He was hard to tackle, he was just real slippery," deff'm­sive end Mike Rucker said. "You could get your hands on him, but the next thing you know, he's gone. 
"I remember talking about that after the game, how slip­pery he was. 
"So we know now that when we get a hold of him, we have to grab him tight and squeeze tight and have more than one person there to help." 

Take the Fast Track to Learn 
PORTUGUESE 
Intensive Beginning Portuguese I 
ROPO 10115 
Brazilian Film and Popular Music 
ROPO/LLRO 40560 -Offered in English 
SPRING 2006 

said he saw the theory fall apart firsthand when he was a coach in Kansas City and Marcus Allen joined the Chiefs in the latter years of his career. 
"People said the same thing 

Department of Romance Languages & Literatures Portuguese & Brazilian Studies 
about him when we got him 
-
Friday, November 11, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
NHL 
Flyers soaring through beginning of season 
Forsberg is 'reluctant superstar' for Philly 
"Peter's a special player," about himself sometimes and

Associ011cd Press 
Flyers coach Ken llitchcock just shoot it. It's amazing what 

VOOHIIEES, N.J. -Petor said. "lie's the complete pack­Peter can do with the puck." Forshnrg avoids the spotlight age. lie's a competitive player Forsberg's top highlight pass thn way hn dokes dnfensemon with a high level of skill." so far came in Philadelphia's 4­and goaltonders. Forsberg is a rare player 3 comeback victory over 
Wayne Gretzky was "Tho who can beat teams with a Boston on Tuesday night. lie (irnat Onn" and Sidney Crosby finesse style or punish them was skating toward the bench, has bonn dubbnd "The Next with a physical approach. lie stopped, spun around and sent Onn." Forslwrg'! llo doosn't led the NIIL with 24 assists a 60-foot laser to Joni want a nieknamn -"Tho through the first 13 games, Pitkanen, who took the puck in Natural" tits, but that's taken. and also had four goals, giving full stride, streaked in and 
A nlluetant sup!Hstar who him an average of 2.2 points scored the tying goal with 23.4 pn~fers to bn one of the guys, per game. seconds left to force overtime. Forsberg cares more about Forsberg is such a precise "That was unbelievable," winning than individual passer he probably could turn llitchcock said. achievements. an enforcer into a prolilic scor­Through the Flyers' first 13 
With an impressive resume er. lie's so unselfish with the games, Gagne had a league­that ineludes two champi­puck that sometimes he needs high 16 goals and Forsberg's onships and an MVP trophy, a rnmindor to shoot it himself. other linemate, Mike Knuble, tlw :~2-year-old Forsberg carne "lie's looking for me all the had eight. Gagne's career best to tlw l'hiladnlphia Flyers with timo, even when I'm not opnn," is 33 goals, and he's already high nxpnctations. lie's certain­forward Simon Gagne said. "I just about halfway to that ly livnd up to the hype early on. told him on the bench to think mark early in the season. 
"lie's everything that the Philly fans can appreciate," Knuble said. "He is everything that was advertised. He's doing it every night now. lie's ono of those gifted, gifted playors." 
Forsberg, of course, spreads the credit. 
"The guys I've playod with are usually great goal scorers," he said. "Simon is a natural goal scorer. Mike has a great shot, too. I know if I get the puck to them around the net, they have a great shot of scor­ing. 
"Maybe I'm being smart because the guy I'm passing to has a better chance to score than I do. I've always done it that way. I always try to look for a pass. Coming around the net, you try to change the angle of the goalie." 
Forsberg signed a two-year, $11.5 million contract with the Flyers in August, leaving Colorado after nine years with the Avalanche and one season in Quebec. His arrival in Philadelphia made the Flyers early favorites to win the Stanley Cup, and significantly inereased fan interest in the team. 

AP Forsberg was the tina! addi­Peter Forsberg coasts during the Flyers' 4-3 overtime win tion during an active offseason against the Bruins on Tuesday. for tho Flyers. 


Team comes from behind to topple Islanders by one goal 
Associated Press won eight straight at homn. 
Miroslav Satan and Mikn 

PIIILADELPIIIA -Patrick York seored power-play Sharp picked the perfeet goals in tho first period to time to show his offensive give the Islandnrs a 2-0 side. lead. New York held a 40­
Sharp scored two goals, 30 shots advantage, includ­including the tiebreaker ing 20-5 in the first period. early in the third period, Sharp put Philadnlphia and the Philadelphia Flyers ahead 3-2 with a slap shot overcame a two-goal deficit from the right eircle. lin cut to beat the New York the Flyers' early deficit in Islanders 3-2 Thursday half 3:35 into the sneond night for their fifth straight period when he fired a shot victory. from almost the same spot. 
Sharp's performance -Islanders coaeh Steve with help from linemates Stirling said Sharp's winner Jeff Carter and Brian was the result of a defen­Savage -came when tho sive zone breakdown. Flyers' high-scoring line of "We kind of went brain Simon Gagne, Peter dead for 10 seconds in a 2­Forsberg, and Mike Knuble 2 game," Stirling explainnd. had a rare off night. That The Islanders scored trio was blanked after com­twice in a 37-second span bining for 67 points in in tho first period. Philadelphia's previous 13 With New York skating games. with a 5-on-3 
"Our line advantago, isn't looking to "When you do Satan took a score goals ·centering pass
the little things 
every night," from AI e xn i
right, things go
Sharp said. Yashin and
,

"But on a your way. one-timed a night when shot past Fors and Gags Niittymaki at
Patrick Sharp 
had a rough 14:39.
Flyers player 
night, we York scored could chip in." on a slap shot 
Gagne had scored seven from just inside the blue goals in the previous four line at 15:16 with tlw puek games. Forsberg leads the bouncing off Flyers NHL with 24 assists, includ­defenseman Joni Pitkanen ing 12 in the previous six and in to the net. games. Niittymaki, making his 
"I just try to go out and first start since allowing play hard," said Sharp, who seven goals in an 8-h loss at helped lead the Carolina on Oct. 28, was Philadelphia Phantoms to sensational early. lie the Calder Cup champi­stopped Mark Parrish on a onship in the AfiL last sea­broakaway and then turned son. "I'm not looking to away Jason Blake's rebound necessarily go out and attempt in the opening min­score two goals, but when utes. Later, he made a you do the little things sprawling save on Parrish's right, things go your way." close-in attempt. 
Carter had a goal and two Flyers coaeh Ken assists, and Antero Hitchcock said Philadelphia Niittymaki made 38 savos oasily could'vn benn down for the Flyers, who have 5-0 if not for Niiltymaki's 
first-poriod effort. 
"You just want to play 
woll and rnbound wnll after 
a had game," Niittymaki 
said. "Sometimns a tnam 
donsn't play that W!~ll and a 

goalio has to step up. If aThursdav Novem player makns a mistakn, tlw go a I i n h a s t o s t o p I tlwIRISH shotf. And it gons tlw otlwr 
way around." Sharp said "tlwrn worn a
Bowling 
lot. of questions" about. how Niittymaki was going to

'"""'......,._.............,...............,~..,._, Q[3Jll3JJV C3Jl ~ i'j I~ CfiJtill'ffiDlDlliiTIB bouncn baek aft.nr thn 
Carolina game.

~~~[kffj]J EDCGITI:iDIXill~ "But he was on top of his '/ll ~~ gamn tonight and hn will NO"IRI DAME ·~ only gd bnttnr," Sharp said.
FmFUf CIUOif lfHIOfl 
Jeff Cart1~r tind it 2-2 with 
3:07 loft. in tho sncond.

Fridav Novembe 
Islandnrs goaltnrHinr Hick DiPietro stoppnd ILl.IRISH vs. Umberger's bn~akaway hut. eouldn't control tho rebound. Cartnr l"lipp!HI tlw
Bowling Green at1:3 
puck in off dnf'nnsnman Alnxni Zhitnik.

Cfiftm011D lliiTIB ~ 
"This was ono of thosn games that we didn't

GJ8J:il!aD~~QTI 
deserve to lose," I>iPintro said. "Thny took it to anoth­

h~l 
er level in the second pnri­od. Wo nendnd t.o have that killer instinct and put teams away." 

-
page 28 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 11, 2005 
NBA 
Wade's 25 points-lead Heat past Yao's Rockets 
Brand and the Clippers win again for the team's best start in two decades 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -They were tired from six games in nine nights, frustrated with their play and on the cusp of falling two games under .500. 
So Dwyanc Wade decided to spark the Miami Heat. 
Wade had 25 points, eight rebounds and seven assists ­plus gave a fourth-quarter pep talk as Miami rallied from a late eight-point deficit to beat the Houston Hoekets 88-84 on Thursday night. 
"Didn't want to lose. Tired of losing. Ain't used to losing," Wade said. "We've got a good team. And when we were down eight, I told Udonis IHaslem] and those guys that we're not losing this game, so do whatev­er we've got to do to win this game. 
Heat are still without Shaquille O'Neal (sprained right ankle) and the Hockets didn't have Tracy McGrady (strained back muscle). 
Miami trailed 71-63 with 
10:17 remaining, but erased the deficit with a 20-6 run over the next 9:05. Williams scored eight of those points, and his 3-point­er with 2:16 left gave the Heat an 81-77 lead. Mourning hit a jumper with 1:12 left to push the margin to six, and Miami held on. 
"I thought we sucked it up and played very, very hard.... That has to be the model for us in terms of how to finish the game," Stan Van Gundy said. 
The Heat survived many stretches of offensive ineptitude. Miami had two points in the 
game's first 3:42, then went scoreless 

And we came out "Didn't want to lose. for 3:26 later in the with great focus." half, 2:32 to open
Tired of losing. Ain't
Jason Williams the second half and
used to losing. " 

had eight of his 4:03 later in the 13 points in a third. decisive late run Dwayne Wade Houston scored for Miami, which only six points in
Heat guard 

also got 13 points and nine rebounds from Alonzo Mourning and 12 points from Gary Payton. 
"I don't know if I'm 100 per­cent comfortable yet playing with these guys," Williams said. "But each game, I just try to get better." 
Yao Ming had 24 points and 14 rebounds for Houston, but scored only two points in the game's final 20:04. Derek Anderson scored 20 points, Stromile Swift had 12 and Juwan Howard 11 for the Rockets, who've dropped three of four to open the season and play their next four on the road. 
"The talk has got to change," Yao said. "We need to do it for ourselves -talk the talk and walk the walk." 
The win gave Heat coach Stan Van Gundy a 3-2 lead in the sib­ling series against his brother, the Rockets' Jeff Van Gundy. Neither brother had his full complement of superstars: The the final 5:13 of the 
third, but somehow added a point to its lead over that stretch and took a 64-60 edge into the fourth. And when David Wesley, who hadn't taken a shot in his first 13 minutes, hit his first two attempts of the fourth, the Rockets held their eight-point lead. 
But Miami made nine of its final 16 shots from the floor, and escaped. 
"We're not paid to try hard," Jeff Van Gundy said. "That should be a given. We're paid to produce." 
Wade led all scorers with 15 first-half points, 12 in the last 
5:14 to help Miami take a 48-44 lead. 
Clippers 102, Hawks 95 
The Los Angeles Clippers have their best start after six games in 20 years, and they are dreaming of an even better fm­ish. 
"We want to be one of the top teams in the West, and we think we are," Elton Brand said after he scored 23 points to lead the Clippers past the winless Atlanta Hawks Thursday night. 

"The sky is the limit right now," said Sam Cassell, who added 21 points as the Pacific Division-leading Clippers moved to 5-1 for the !irst time since the 1985-86 season. 
Asked if he was surprised by the strong start, Cassell said: ''I've been saying it all year. It's not surprising me." 
The Hawks, meanwhile, have lost their first five games for the first time since the 2000-01 sea­son, when they started 0-7. 
The Hawks stayed close but didn't lead after the first quar­ter. 
"I thought we were on the verge, but a loss is a loss," said Joe Johnson, who led the Hawks with 24 points and set a season high with 10 rebounds. 
Johnson said the Hawks "don't know how to win." 
"It's tough right now," Johnson said. "We're in a nasty funk. Somehow, someway, we have to find a way to get a vic­tory." 
Coach Mike Dunleavy said his Clippers were wary of overlook­ing the Hawks, especially after also beating Atlanta 92-77 Saturday in Los Angeles. 
"I was really worried about this game, obviously, playing a team that has not won yet," Dunleavy said. "I knew they were going to come out and play hard. They gave a great effort and the longer you let them stay around, hang around, the more confidence builds, the 
FYI 


more opportunity they have to The Hawks were held to 41 win." percent shooting from the field, 
Added Dunleavy: "They're a including 1-for-9 on 3-point young team but I expected us to attempts. The Clippers made 48 win because we have more tal­percent of their shots. ent than they do." Atlanta's Zaza Pachulia also 
Corey Maggette, playing in his had a double-double with 16 second game since returning points, 13 rebounds and a from a strained left hamstring, team-leading six assists. AI added 17 points in only 25 min­Harrington added 14 points and utes. rookie Marvin Williams had 12. 
while you were out 




U IVE SITY 
: =·= ,.,, bl'B=:n:::;#:~i ==~: ::=:=:;:; ~===' ··:: =~~-=~·=:=:=:='=' =·=< :.:.:.:·:::::::;:::;:;:~;.:: !=:=O:L!:: =:' :::.=:,:::::-:= @/: ::::::;~:g:~==~~=;::;r:=''· ::·.:>=~~:: :·.,·:>:.-: =·=·=>= 
UT ITT SIM 
the campus store off carnpusm 
located in the Martin's Supermarket Plaza 1 block east of Turtle Creek Apartments 243-4197 
-


OUND THE NATION 
Friday, November I l, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE 0HsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 29 
MLB 
Men's Swimming Top 25 
team  points  
1  Auburn  200  
2  Stanford  191  
3  California­ 181  
4  Berkeley  178  
5  Michigan  169  
6  Arizona  159  
7  Texas  152  
8  Florida  141  
9  usc  135  
10  Minnesota  131  
11  Indiana  116  
12  Georgia  115  
13  Tennessee  100  
14  Northwestern  94  
15  Purdue  89  
16  Florida State  79  
17  Kentucky  78  
18  Virginia  52  
19  NOTRE DAME  50  
20  BYU  45  
21  Ohio State  39  
22  Alabama  34  
23  North Carolina  27  
24  Penn State  9  
25  Missouri  7  

Women's Swimming Top 25 
t('arn 
1 Georgia
2 Auburn 
3 Stanford 
4 Florida 
5 California-Berkeley 
6 Arizona 
7 UCLA 
8 Southern Methodist 
9 Texas 
10 usc 
11 Wisconsin 
12 Penn State 
13 Texas A&M 
14 Michigan 
15 Indiana 
16 Florida State 
17 Tennessee 
18 Virginia 
18 Hawaii-Manoa 
20 Washington 
21 Purdue 
22 North Carolina 
23 Virginia Tech 
24 Kansas 
25 Arizona State 
points 
197 195 183 
172 
164 160 155 150 132 126 125 107 98 90 86 84 65 60 60 41 41 36 23 16 12 
MIAA Cross Country Standings 
No. learn 
1 Calvin 2 Hope 3 Albion 4 Kalamazoo 5 SAINT MARY'S 6 Alma 7 Olivet 8 Adrian 9 Tri-State 

around the dial 
CoLLEGE FooTBALL Rutgers at Louisville 8:00 p.m., ESPN 2 
NBA 
L.A. Lakers at Philadelphia 
8:00p.m., ESPN Detroit at Portland 
10:30 p.m., ESPN 


Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Chris Carpenter was ready to call it quits. 
Toiling in Double-A two years ago, trying to work his way back from shoulder surgery, he pitched a game in Tennessee just before the All-Star break and couldn't even play catch afterward because his right arm hurt so much. 
Carpenter knew some­thing was wrong again, even though the doctors didn't think so. lie hadn't seen his infant son in about a month, and all he wanted was go home to New Hampshire with his wife, Alyson. 

''I'll never forget the night we sat here until about 3 o'clock in the morning crying and talking about my career," Carpenter said. "I was ready to be done. And she didn't think I was, that I would regret it if I didn't take that one more step and try to come back again. And the next thing you know, I got my second sur­gery and here we are today. And I know that if it wasn't for her I wouldn't be here." 
All that hard work and patience was rewarded when Carpenter won the NL Cy Young Award on Thursday. 
After going 21-5 with a 
2.83 EHA for the St. Louis Cardinals, he received 19 of 32 first-place votes and finished with 132 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. 
He beat out Florida lefty Dontrelle Willis, becoming the first Cardinals pitcher to claim the honor since Hall of Farner Bob Gibson in 1970. 
"I can't believe I won," Carpenter said. "My son did a little dance for me 
IN BRIEF Palmeiro avoids prosecu­
tion for petjury WASHINGTON -Baseball star Hafael Palmeiro will not be prose­cuted on perjury charges after law­makers said Thursday there isn't enough evidence to prove he lied when he told Congress under oath that he had "never used steroids" ­six weeks before failing a steroid test. 
The investigation did not conclude whether the former Baltimore Orioles slugger had actually ever used performance-enhancing sub­stances prior to his testimony before the House Government Heform Committee. 
"We couldn't find any evidence of steroid use prior to his testimony," Chairman Tom Davis, H-Va., said in releasing a 44-page report. "That's not a linding of innocence. but it's a linding that we could not substanti­ate perjury." 
At issue was Palmciro's statement at a March 17 hearing: "I have never used steroids. Period." On May 4, he failed a Major League Baseball drug test, coming up positive for an ana­bolic steroid. 

Tyson questioned after 
incident with cameraman 
SAO PAULO, Brazil -Mike Tyson was questioned by police early Thursday after a television camera­man accused the former heavy­weight champion of assaulting him outside a nightclub. 
Tyson could face charges of assault and destruction of property, police spokeswoman Kelly Pinheiro said. A court hearing has been scheduled for Friday, but Tyson can send a representative and is not required to appear. 
Carlos Eduardo da Silva. a cam­eraman with the Brazilian television network SBT, told police Tyson pushed him and threw his c1trnf1ra to the ground outside the club, then removed a videotape and put it in his pocket. 
Police said Tyson acknowlndged 
and my wife gave me a big hug. Willis, who was 22-10 with a 2.63 EHA, was listed first on 11 ballots, second on 18 and third on three for 112 points. Seven-time winner Hoger Clemens got the other two first-place votes and came in a distant third at age 43. 
The Rocket led the majors with a 1.87 EHA, but a lack of run support from his NL ehampion Houston Astros limited Clemens to a 13-8 record, which surely cost him votes. 
Willis was all elass in shrugging ofT any disap­pointment. 

damaging tho camera but denind pushing Silva. He was later released. The 39-year-old Tyson held a news conference Wednesday asking the Brazilian media not to ap_Eroach him at night.
Tiger yields lead at HSBC 
Champions Competition 
SHANGHAI. China -Tiger Woods buried his last tee shot in a bunker and finished with a bogey, giving up a share of the first-round lead at tlw IISBC Champions on Thursday. 
Paul Lawrie, the 1999 British Opnn winner, England's Nick Doughnrty and Australian Peter O'Malley wore tied for the lnad at 8-undnr 64 in Asia's richest golf tournament. 
Woods was onn strokn back at 7­under at Sheshan International Golf Club, with David llownll. Holwrt-.Jan Derksen of the Netherlands and South Korea's K . .J. Choi. 
The liuropnan Tour is opening its season with this $!i million tourna­ment, whieh is sandioned by four tours. 
Friday, November 11, 2005

page 30 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 
McNabb and Eagles prepare for life after T.O. 
Quarterback says team is ready to focus solely on its football games 

Associated Press 
PHILADELPIIIA -When a door to the auditorium of the Eagles practice facility sud­denly flew open. a startled Donovan McNabb could have been excused for thinking it was some familiar hot air ­not a brisk wind -that was the culprit. 
"Somebody's trying to get back in here," a smiling McNabb said Thursday. 
While supernatural terror likely won't be added to the lengthy list of ways Terrell Owens tormented the Eagles, a mellow McNabb was relieved and ready to put the TO. era behind him. 
Speaking for the first time since Owens was booted off the team for his constant criti­cism of the Eagles -specifi­cally McNabb -the Pro Bowl quarterback said the team is ready to focus only on football and not the distractions that have swirled since shortly after the Super Bowl. 
"It's unfortunate what the end result was with him not being able to get on the foot­ball field with us, but you have to move on," McNabb said. "Some things in life that you're a part of just don't go as well as you want them to." 
Certainly Owens' tumultuous stint in Philadelphia was one of them. 
While Owens was McNabb's favorite receiver on the field, Owens made McNabb his top target off it, firing one often puzzling high road. trying to diffuse the situation with humor, though he warned Owens to keep his name out of his mouth. Apparently, Owens wasn't lis­tening or didn't eare. 
"You've never heard me say anything bad about him," McNabb said. "You've never heard me say anything bad about the situation. I just con­tinued to put that behind me and tried to move on." 
Now the only one truly moving on is 
"It's hard to lose a

Owens. eyed McNabb 
Safety Brian guy like [Owens}." yelled into the Dawkins, who tried mike. to act as a media­While previous
Donovan McNabb

tor between the McNabb contro­
Eagles quarterback 

two, called Owens versies have 
criticism  after  "It's unfortunate  "no  excuse"  for  
another  toward  what the end result  the way the Eagles  
the quarterback until it cost him his roster spot.  was with [Owens] not being able to  have slumped to a 4-4 record. A contrite Owens  
Owens started the friction in April when he took a shot at McNabb, saying he  get on the football field with us, but you have to move , on.  pleaded for anoth­er chance in a public apology Tuesday, but the team was  
"wasn't the  guy  unmoved. Owens'  
who got tired in the Super Bowl," then called him a  Donovan McNabb Eagles quarterback  agent, Drew Rosenhaus, said he wants his client  
"hypocrite" during  to play immediate- 
training camp and  ly.  

finished it off by saying the Rosenhaus stole the spotlight Eagles would be better off with after Owens was finished, Green Bay's Brett Favre. deflecting unfavorable ques­What a set list. tions and performing like an McNabb publicly took the over-top-ringmaster in an out­

a good teammate and hard worker who simply let his outlandish comments overshadow his clutch catches. 
"Those are things you don't understand and can't sweep under the rug," Dawkins said. 
Owens didn't play in Sunday night's 17-10 loss at Washington, and will remain suspended for three more games without pay. After that, the Eagles plan to deactivate him for the rest of the season. 
Owens, thrown off the Eagles on Monday, had 20 touch­downs in 21 regular-season games with Philadelphia. 
Coach Andy Reid -who dis­missed Owens because of "a large number of situations that accumulated over a long peri­od of time" -said all the attention was tir­ing but there was 
of-eontrol circus. 


"I thought it was a sinc!lfe apology," MeNabb said. "I thought it was unfortunate after the apology what hap­pened after that. That maybe could have been solved early in the week. That's over, that's the past. We're moving on." 
When asked if he got into a fight with Owens, McNabb couldn't resist poking fun at Rosenhaus. 
"Next question!" 
a smiling, bug­
brought opinions 
from everyone from Jesse Jackson to Rush Limbaugh, this time consumer advocate Ralph Nader is jump­ing in, writing a letter to Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie and NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue that asks to rescind Owens' suspension. 
Nader has a better chance of winning his next presidential bid. 
Still, losing the All-Pro wide­out puts more pressure on McNabb and an otherwise lackluster receiving corps. 
"If he's not the best, he's def­initely one or two of the top receivers of the game," McNabb said. "It's hard to lose a guy like that." 
McNabb's top two targets are now Greg Lewis and Reggie Brown. The two combined for 45 catches, 543 yards and two TDs this season. 

Owens had 4 7 catches for 763 yards and six TDs in seven games. 
"With him on the field, we do remarkable things," McNabb said. "We could have set records. That was something that I looked forward to doing, winning Super Bowls together. But it just continued to go in the wrong direction." 
Now McNabb says he's ready to lead even more by example, act as the captain of the ship and steer the Eagles toward the playoffs. His teammates seem ready to jump aboard. 
"I don't care who we bring in here or what players we have, everything goes through him," Dawkins said. 
That was the lesson Owens never learned. 

Zeno: An Ingenious and Portable Acne-Clearing Device Introducing Zeno, the new secret weapon in the war against acne. 
Get Your Zeno at The Spa at Colfax Today! 
As seen in the Oprah magazine October issue. Available locally exclusively at The Spa at Colfax! 
-
Friday, November I 1, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 31 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Young does it all for Longhorns 
Junior quarterback makes No. 2 Texas click with his moves 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas -Fourth down, I H yards to go. 
With time running out and Texas trailing at Kansas, Longhorns quarterback Vincn Young rollnd to his right. faknd a pass and then took oil'. 
Breaking a tackle -his lnft ankln was in tlw grasp of .Jayhawks linnbacker Nkk Heid -Young eovnrnd 22 yards for a first down in what became tho ganw-winning drive last Novmnlmr. 
Longhorns coach Mack Brown calls it the most impor­tant play in Tnxas' 16-game winning streak that has the second-ranknd Longhorns in thn thick of the national titln 
dJUSI~. 
"It's a play that's almost unhnard of." Brown said. "I thought it was one of the great plays in Texas football history hecausn it lnd to a Hose Bowl ganw that gavn us a chance to win on the national sem1n and put u~ in the position we are Imlay. 
Texas (9-0, 6-0 Big 121 and Kansas 15-4, 2-41 nwet Saturday in a rmnatch that has eonjurod up a week's worth of memorins of Young's dramatic play, .Jayhawks coach Mark Mangino's post-gamn tirade and the what-if's had Texas lost. 
Tnxas might not have gotten thn ball for its linal drivn if not for an oiTensivn pass interfcr­nncn pPIHLlty on Charles (;ordon of Kansas with a little more than 2 minutes to play. 
Mangino was critical of olli­cials and seenwd to suggest they wanted Texas to win so it eould bring a BCS windfall into thn lnague. 
"You know what this is all about, don't you'? BCS," he said at tlw time. "That's what made the difl'erence in a call in front of their heneh. Dollar signs." 
lie was publidy reprimanded by the Big 12 and ordered to pay a $5,000 line. 

But without Young's big play, Texas loses and nevnr reaches thn Hos11 Bowl, where he car­rind the team to another dra­matic victory over Michigan with 190 yards rushing. 1HO passing and five total touch­downs. 
Brown credits the Hose Bowl win ovnr Michigan with giving his tmun the boost it needed to be one of the national title favorites this year. It also thrust Young into the lleisman Trophy raee. 
Given all that's happened since, it's easy to overlook just how dose the Jayhawks came to spoiling everything. 
"If I make that play, we win the game," said Heid, who leads the Jayhawks with R5 taekles this season but acknowledges he still thinks about tlw one that got away. ''I've thought about this game a thousand times since last year. 
"It stings to think about it right now, but luckily we have a ehance to go down there and do something about it." 
The Longhorns were pushing for a berth in the Bowl Championship Series but ran into serious problems against a Jayhawks team that led 23-.20 with just over a minute to play. 
Young, who seems so cairn in prnssure situations, admits he was nervous. lie had been sacked for an eight-yard loss on first down and threw two incomplete passes. 
"I was nervous that play because I didn't know what to do," Young said. "I knew they wore going to drop back real deep and proteet the deep pass. I put it upon mysolf to use my legs. 
"I was nnrvous because our season was in jeopardy. After we broke the huddle, I was thinking about what I was going to do to get a first down. It was crazy, but it saved our season." 
And it created a year's worth of nightmares for Heid. After his scramble, Young hit Tony Jeffery for 21 yards and the winning touchdown with 11 seeonds left. 
Kansas, which had fought so hard, was denied one of the biggest wins in school history. 
"It was a game that we should have won," linebacker Kevin Kane said. "We were just a couple plays short. It just makes you think what eould have been done difl'erently, but that's in the past. We have to worry about this week." 


BEFORE, DURING AND AFTER THE GAME 
2046 South Bend Ave. 212-1166 Across from Manin's Plaza 
NFL 

Saban prepares to face an old mentor 
Coaching matchup looms large in battle of 'Fins and Patriots 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -As he munches on lunch, Bill Belichiek talks on the phone with the cheerfulness of someone eating a glass sand­wieh. 
The subjeet is Sunday's matchup against Niek Saban, his protege and friend of 23 years. They'll face each other for tlw first time when Bnlichick's Nnw England Patriots play the Miami Dolphins. 
"I wouldn't call it fun," Belichick says bntween bites. "I look at it more as a challenge. Fun would be playing golf." 
They're tightly wound, thnse two, stern workaholics who rank among their sport's most respected coaches. If' it helped them win, they really would chew glass. 
And· it's against thoir nature to let friendship get in the way of a game. Their n~lationship has changed sinee Saban became the Dolphins' eoaeh last Christmas. 
"We don't talk as much as we used to, espeeially about football, because it is competitive in that we are in the same division and kind of on rival teams," Saban says. 
Even with both elubs strug­gling, the stakes Sunday will be substantial. lnjury-plaguod New England (4-4), seeking its fourth 
"Bill /Belichick/ is a
Super Bowl title in thren rings like five years, was really good guy as they've got." drubbed Monday Sincn joining the
well as being an 
night by Dolphins, Saban
outstanding coach." 
Indianapolis, but says he and remains atop the Belichiek have spo­AFC East. Nick Saban knn only a couple of The Dolphins times. The two
Dolphins coach 
Browns and hirnd Saban as def'1msivn coordinator. 
They spnnt f'om ymtrs togntlwr on a stall' that also ineludnd Kirk Fnrentz, now lwad coach at Iowa; Frnsno StatP coach Pat !Jill; Dolphins dirnclor of fillltball operations Seott O'Brien; and .Jim Batns. former Dolphins dnfnnsivn coordinator and intnr­im !wad coach. 
"Bill's still a menlor of mine," says Saban, at 54 six months older than Beliehiek. "Bill is a really good guy as wdl as being an outstanding coach -maylw as good as J'vn IWPr lwen around. And J'vn lmtrnnd rnon• fr01~. him than from anybody nlsn. 
Belichiek rnturns the compli­ment. 
"I've had tho privilege to work with a lot of' eoachns through my carenr, and nonn bntter than Niek," hn says. "I considnr him a grnat coach "and a grnat friend. I certainly appredatP nverything he has ever dono f(,r me, which has been a lot." 
In trying to rnbuild tho Dolphins, who last ynar endurml thnir first losing stmson siJH~P 19SS, Saban is attPmpting to fiJI­low the example of Bnlichkk, the first coach to win thrne Super Bowl tith~s in four years. 
Both coaches arn fornwr defensive coordinators who strnss organization and hard work. 
"The talk has always bmm that 
Niek's  a  Belichick diseipln."  
Miami  defensive  end  .Jason  
Taylor says. "I hopP  
hn is, so wn can gd  


(3-5) can daim a share of first plaee with a win, even though they've lost four of their past five games. 
"I am not frustrated," Saban says. "We are not allowed to be frustratnd here. If me being frus­trated will help us get better, then I will be frustrated. But I am not frustrated." 
How about you, Bill? Frustrated? 
"I don't really care what hap­pened last week or two weeks ago or last year or two years ago," Beliehiek responds. "None of that really makes any dill'er­enee. It's all about the ehallenge this week." 
Which sounds like something Saban would say. 
He and Beliehiek lirst met in 1982, when Saban and Belichick's father, Steve, were on the staff at Navy. The younger Beliehick beeame a head eoach in 1991 with the Cleveland coaches mgrnt that 
they both work in the AFC East, rather than in dif­ferent divisions. 
"You're in competition with that team 365 days a ynar, not just one Sunday a season," Bnlkhick says. "It makes it a lit­tle tougher to have as dose a relationship you would have if you were somewhern else. But we undnrstand that." 
Says Saban: "llopnf'ully when wn're sitting on a log someday on the side of' the hill, what happens in this eircumstancn won't allect our personal relationship." 
Players on both tnams am wnll aware that Sunday's game car­ries special meaning for both eoadws. 
"I guess Niek and Bill are great friends," Taylor says. ''I've got guys on teams I play against that I hang out with in thn oll'snason. But li1r 60 minutns you 'rn going at it. You can lovn the guy and still want to kick his butt." 

Why? 
United for Pakistan Earthquake Relief 
7_6 Richter 80'Yo of structu•-cs destropcd 15,000 devastated villages 4 million affected ( l-6-2-2 million children) 
Information Forthcoming 
page 32 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 11, 2005 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles prepare for six-kilometer Great Lakes Regional 
haven't ever had personal Eaton said all were excited "I think everyone on the That routine, she said, keeps
Three seniors ready 
records," junior Becky Feauto and hoped to run their best in team is going to improve this the runners fresh and strong.
for Saturday's final said. "But I would like to break their last collegiate meet. weekend," she said, citing run­The Belles will send eight my [personal best] 6-K time of Two weeks after head coach ners' improvements through-runners to the meet, wherecollegiate competition this year." Jackie Bauters out the year. seven will compete and five Feauto and Belles senior saw the Belles Feauto said she will count towards the team's
'Td like to see at
Sara Otto are the only two turn in their best­hoped the Belles' total. By KEN FOWLER Belles who participated in the ever finish at the Regionals improvements Freshman Alicen Miller said Sports Writer meet last year and will again MIAA Champion­everybody do as would put them in Bauters has given her team 
Saturday. ship, she said the a better position good advice going into the
well ifnotbetter
It's the last race of the sea­Feauto finished the six-kilo­team hopes to to track down meet. son, and the Belles want to meter course in 24:57, and improve on its [than in the MIAA upper-tier confer­"She told us to run hard and close the season with their best Otto crossed the finish line in performance from Championships] ence foes in the run our best to have fun," performance of the year. 26:00. a year ago, when race. Miller said. "It's good to get
because that's the 
Three Saint Mary's seniors Their 6-K times from the Saint Mary's "I think. we can this under our belt and get the will finish MIAA Championships two placed No. 22. kind ofshape they take on Alma and experience behind us." their careers weeks ago indicate they are ''I'd like to see at should be in. " stay with Feauto agreed, noting that Saturday at both likely to improve drasti­Regionals every­Kalamazoo," she Regionals is the only true trav­Voice of cally their times from a year body do as well as said. el meet for the team during the
Jackie Bauters 
America ago. last week if not Last season, the course of the season. Park in the Otto finished that race in better [than in the Belles coach Belles finished "Regionals is all about the NCAA Div­24:15, just two seconds ahead MIAA Champion-one place ahead experience because it's our Ision III ofFeauto. ships] because that's the kind of Alma in the Regionals. only overnight," she said. Great Lakes The junior wants to do even of shape they should be in," Bauters said she changed the The Belles hope to make the Regional and better than that. she said. "And I would like to team's practice routine slightly most of the opportunity at race five others "24 [minutes] is a good goal see that translate to us doing as the season came to an end time. They take off from the hope to end to shoot for," Feauto said. better in the region than we and the longer meets starting line at 11 a.m. their season wlth personal Otto, Jess Eaton and Megan did last year." approached. Saturday. records before coming back O'Neil are the Belles three sen­Freshman Grace Fey said she "We've just been doing quick­next year. iors who will be running in expects the team to do exactly er stuff this week," she said. Contact Ken Fowler at 
"Typically at Regionals we their final meet. what its coach said. "Just faster turnover." kfowler 1 @nd.edu 


SMC BASKETBALL 
Reinvigorated team is ready for final preseason scrimmage 
First-year coach Steve Bender says the Belles are a new group after a tough warmup last week with Bethel College 
By TIM KAISER Sports Writer  from the end of that meeting to help in tonight's matchup. "Our focus is to see how  injury, Erin Newsom has joined the team after the com­pletion of the cross-country  Highlighting the new feel to the team, Bender said that "a lot of players" will stand out  He also said the strengths of the team are his players' ath­letic ability and the number of  
Saint Mary's will take  on  much we've improved from Bethel," first-year Saint Mary's  season and Shelly Bender will also be  "Our focus is to see  for the Belles this season.  quality players that are on the roster.  
Lake Michigan College tonight in its second scrimmage of the preseason and final tuneup before the regular season begins at the Hanover Tip-Off Classic next weekend. A week after facing Bethel College at the Angela Athletic Center, the Belles are hoping to get on the right track with a road victory before their offi­cial games start. Saint Mary's outscored Bethel in the last of the scrim­ head coach Steve Bender said. "They exposed a lot of our weaknesses." The Belles worked on condi­tioning and execution all week, and Bender said they are essentially a whole new team, complete with new play­ers. This week the Belles will be playing with a full squad, as three players missing from last week's scrimmage will return to the team. Forward Benya  playing after fin­"We have a lothow much we'veishing out the vol­of depth, which isimproved from leyball season. key," he said. Bender described Bethel. They "But we also have this week's prac­great leadershipexposed a lot of tice as "outstand­from our two cap­our weaknesses."ing" and said the tains." team is ready to Bender credits get out on the Steve Bender captains Bridget court and play. Boyce and BridgetBelles coach "We've some a Lipke with keep-long way", he said. ing the team "Finally, everyone is here, focused during the transition which helps.... [Now] we can to a new coach.  "Our athleticism and the depth that we have will help us extend pressure on teams throughout the game," he said. Bender said the Belles were exhausted by the end of the Bethel scrimmage, but that with this week's conditioning and the addition of three new girls to the squad, he thinks they will be able to keep up the intensity all game. Tip-off tonight is at 7 p.m.  
mage's  three  periods  and  Broderick will return tonight  gel as a unit instead of playing  "They really held the team  Contact Tim Kaiser at  
hopes to  use  the momentum  after  recovering  from  an  as just a bunch of parts."  together," he said.  tkaiser@nd.edu  

Patrick Toole 
Vice President. Business Transformation IBM Corporate Enterprise on Demand Transformation and Information Technology 
A Perspective on Engineering and Innovation 
Monday, November 14, 2005 
12:50 to 1 : 4 Dp.m. 
DeBartolo Auditorium, Room 101 

Friday, November II, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 33 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
No. 8 Irish look to regroup against Big East .foes 
Hy TOM DORWART 
Spon' Writer 
Sonwtimns a tnam on a roll tWPds a loss to rnfoeus or to rPjuvnnatn. 
Tlw No. H Irish. whosn IS­match winning-streak nndnd Nov. (I at Pittsburgh, would much rathnr havn knpl win­ning. 
Still. thn livP-ganw loss might havP lit a lin~ for NotrP Danw !wading into thP eriti<:al f'inal WI'PkPnd of thP Big East regular s•mson. Tlw Irish facP Villanova (20-H, 7-4 Big East) Saturday at I 0 a.m. and HutgPrs (10-15, 5-7 Big l·:ast) Sunday at 2 p.m., both at tho .Joyen Cnntnr. 
"I think that loss was obvious­ly hard," snnior Lauren Brnwstnr said of tlw loss to Pitt. "Wn WIH"n all really frustratnd aftPrwards. What w•~'rn n~ally trying to work on right now is 1~orning togntlwr as a tnam. Wn'rn rnally trying to work on that." 
Coaeh Dobbie Brown agrnnd with lwr All-Big East player. 
"Evnryonn was really disap­pointed," Brown said. "I gunss wn'rn doing all that wn can to make surn that donsn't happen again, nspneially getting in a situation whnrn you're on tho road. and you're up 2-0 and just figuring out a way to finish it. 
"I think tho main thing is just to try to get back and work out, got some confidonce back and foeus back and feel good about what wn can do as a team again." 
Browstor said the tnam has rol'oeusod and is jumping for tho opportunity, this weekond, to oarn the top seed for next wonk's c.onference tournamnnt. 
"We're exeited." sho said. "Saturday we have Villanova first, and I think that we've kind of lnarned that you have to be cautious about evnryone and rospeet every opponent. We're rnally looking forward to it. We havon't won the Big East yot, so wn'ro excited to have this opportunity." 
Tho snason, 24 matchos long thus far, comes down to this wenkond. 
This weekend, the Irish con­trol their own destiny. In fact, from hero on out, they eontrol tlwir own destiny. 
"We talked about what we'rn working towards all season," Brewster said. 
As for having the second­longest winning streak in school history snapped, Brown said she wasn't too worried about it. Shn wasn't exactly keeping track. Instead, she and hnr team took every match as just any other crucial competi­tion. 
"To bo quite honest, we never talked about it," Brown said. "I honestly don't think it was real-ly a thought of the team about, 'Oh, OK, we're on this huge winning streak.' I think every time we went into a match we just felt like that we could com­pete and play well and win. It never even came up in a con­versation. I honestly don't even know what it was-13, 14? It was never a part of our thought process." 


Whether they thought about 

the streak or not, the Irish are, at least, now without tho pres­sure or keeping it going. They're without the target of being a team with 15 straight wins, a team that everyone wants to beat in order to nnd such a streak. 
Now, hopefully, Brown says, her team has learned. "Sometimes it could be said that you learn more from a loss 
than a win, and I think that remains to be snen," she said. "We've gotten baek in tlw gym and practicnd a little bit. We need to figure ]things] out and play really well again, too. At this point, I'm for surn not glad that we lost. Certainly my hop1~ is that it will make us bnttnr." 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.cdu 

MEN'S SWIMMING 
Surging Irish hope for first-ever win at Michigan State 
tho momentum of its dramatie just something you like to do." eral of his swimmers in dimmmt "lie's kicking butt," llnll'nrnan
Challenging Spartans 
122-121 win over Pittsburgh -The Charles McCafl'reo pool events for the first limn all sea­said of Vanden Berg. "Our dis­team hosts No. 18 NO Notro Dame's first-ever win at has only six lanes, meaning the son. tanen core in gnneral has bonn the Panthers' home pool. Irish will have one fewer entry in "At the Big East Championship hug.~ in helping us win the menb, Still, as 1widenced at loast once each event than the normal l(lUr. at the end of s1~mson, most peopln but .lay in particular has bnnn By JACK THORNTON this fall, a victory over the "In order to win a tough mateh will have thren individual events. doing really well and lw's just Spom Writer Panthers is no sum sign of a win on the road, you have to bring so we want to find out who they been working really hard in thn 
over Michigan State. The everything you have with you. arc, find out who might be on pool and in the rnnds." 
Hoad nwnts always present a Spartans (1-2) have dropped You have to bring erwrgy, tnch­our relays this soason." Welsh Vanden Berg's lat11st vietory IPvnl of unfamiliarity, but their last two meets but have nique, training, motivation, disei­said. hopefully set the totw I(Jr the Big tonight's rnateh in East Lansing done so against the stiff competi­pline, crowd and noise," Irish Players am allowed to swim in East Championship. will providP NotrP Damn with a tion of Purdue and Northwestern. head coach Tim Welsh said. "Wn only two individual events during "If you look at tlw 1000-yard f'nw morn uniqun opportunitins Now they look to right their ship, always want to swim well on the the regular season, but the limit f'rnnstyle against Pitt. I it was! his than usual. both for individuals and they hold home-pool advan­road and one or the goals for the is raised to three for tlw bnst time of tho season. But also and tlw tnam as a whole. tagn against tho Irish. s1mson is to win tough meets on February Big East. two of Ithe l'antlwr swimmnrs I 
"From what I undnrstand, we The match will bo the last in a the road." "Generally we'd like people to went 1 and 2 in tlw Big East last as a program havP ncvnr beaten string of three consecutive road In other words, this win would bn able to swim thrne events so year, so it was an important win !Michigan Statnl in thnir pool meets lbr Notre Dame that start­be huge. we could get morn points," for him and just an indil~ator of bni(Jrn, so wn'rn looking to go in ed with the team's own "It's not a revengfl factor as lle11'ernan said. how well .lay is doing," Wnlsh thorP and gnt a win for the first encounter with Purdue on Oct. much as a measure of improve­One of the swimmers who the said. limn." co-captnin Patrick 21J. mont. We want to improve Irish will try to get a third nvnnt Welsh and tlw Irish hopP llnm~rnan said. "It's tough bning away from enough so that we can win those is Vanden Berg. Vanden Berg has Vanden Berg's dominanee will 
Thn timing snems just right for home. It's not just physically tir­tough matches on the road," destroyed the competition in his hnlp the team to its lirst win in tlw IiLII of Sparta. Thn Irish eonw ing but it's also a mental thing," Wnlsh said. two distance events (500-yard East Lansing tonight.. in ranknd No. 18 in the country, sophomore Jay Vanden Berg In preparation for tho Big East freestyle and 1,000 frnestylo), with a 2-1 rncord in dualments. said. "It's kind of tough not swim­Championship at the end of the winning both races in every dual Contact Jack Thornton at 
Tlw tmtm is also running on ming in your home pool -that's season, Welsh will be raeing sev-moet this yp.ar. jthornt4@nd.cdu 

NCAA ChampionshiPS 
-,Fridav, November 11 @1:30pm 
' 
Notre Dame vs. Valparaiso 
@ 5:00 pm ·MIChigan Statevs. BoWling Groen 
~,,......__ 
Sundav, November13@1:00pm Winner of Game 1vs. Winner of Game 2 First 100 Students recleve free admission & Free Food sponsored bv Coca-Colal 


page 34 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 11, 2005 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
NO WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Connelly is confident for meet
Irish will try to run 
No.5 Irish can guarantee a spot in NCAA Championship with win
easily on Saturday 

Piane expects team to earn an at-large bid if it doesn't win 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
With the regular meet season behind them, the No. 5 Notre Dame men's cross country team 
is ready to take the first official step towards a possible national champi­onship at Saturday's Great Lakes Hegional Meet at Indiana University in Bloomington. 
Irish head coach Joe Piane said the team's goal is to finish in the top two out of 35 meets. 
Without much pressure, Piane said his team will try to relax and not get caught up in the fast start that is inevitable in a race expected to feature more than 200 competitors. 
"We want to run conserva­tively," he said. "Frankly, we want to run with as little effort as possible and still qualify." 
Teams often worry about col­lisions in races with fields as 
"They had a wonderful week of training last week, and this week has been sort ofdown time. We're ready., 
Joe Piane Irish coach 

schools in the meet, though he is not overly concerned with the team's finish in the race. Placing in the top two would earn the Irish an automatic bid to the NCAA Championships Nov. 21, but Notre Dame can still earn a spot in the lield with an at-large selection. 
Piane said he is conlident the No. 5 Irish will earn a spot in the Champion­ships with the 
"frankly, we want

quality opponents they have beaten to run with as little in the regular 
effort as possible

meet season. 
and still qualify., 

"[At larges) are chosen ... basical­ly [based on I who Joe Piane you've defeated 
Irish coach 

that has quali­fied," he said. "For example, let's say we get third in our region, but Georgetown, Providence and Arizona get automatic bids. We would probably get a bid, because we've beaten those schools." 
At No. 5 nationally, the Irish have little concern to qualify, as the NCM selects 13 schools to complement 18 teams that earn a spot in the NCAA Championships with a top-two finish in one of nine regional large as the region­
finish to guarantee a spot in 
als, but Piane said 

the National Championships
the course in 

but can also earn an at-large
Bloomington is 
selection. 
well equipped to 

While Irish head coach Tim 
hold so many run­

Connelly said he is confident 
ners. 

about the team's chances to 
"We've run there 

finish in the top two, he said 
in the past," he 

that the Great Lakes is one of 
said. "It's a very 

the nation's toughest regions,
fair course and it 

featuring several highly­
will handle [the 
ranked teams. 
large field.l" 

"Healistically there could be 
The course is not 

five or six teams Ifrom the 
known for its fast 

Great Lakes Regional) that 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 

After winning the Big East Championship, the No. 4 Notre Dame women's cross country team set its sights on a higher goal: a national championship. 
The Irish will take their first step towards that goal Saturday in Bloomington, Indiana at the Great Lakes Hegional Meet. 
Notre Dame needs a top-two 
times, however. It features sev­eral hills, spread thrpughout all eight kilometers. 
The Irish will send an experi­enced lineup into the meet. Seniors Tim Moore, Kaleb Van Ort, Sean O'Donnell and Vinny Ambrico, and junior Kurt Benninger all ran in this meet last year. 
"Pe'ople are not intimidated 
by the fact that 
intimidated by the field. 
they are running 

"We've really faced good
in such an impor­

competition all year," he said. 
tant meet with a 

"Our kids are not going to be 
huge field," Piane 

overwhelmed running against
said. 

good people in the NCAAs. I 
At the end of a 

don't think being in a strong
long cross country 

region hurts us. In fact, it can 
season, fatigue 
only help us." 
can play a factor, 

Notre Dame will send out a 
but Piane said his 

familiar lineup featuring All-
team, which has­could go to the NCAAs," Connelly said. 

"Michigan's ranked third in the country. Pitt was third in the Big East. Butler is ranked in the top 20 in the country. Indiana and Michigan State are each ranked in the top 30. It's a pretty strong region." 
Despite the stiff competition, Connelly said his team is not Americans Molly Huddle, Stephanie Madia and Sunni Olding. 
Talented freshman Hamsey Kavan, who earned All-Big East honors this year, will also compete. 
Huddle, Madia. Olding and Kavan have formed an intimi­dating top four this year, but the Irish have struggled at times to lind a fifth and final scoring runner capable of stay­ing close to the foursome. 
In the Big East meet, junior Katie· DeHusso was Notre Dame's fifth runner, finishing No. 16 overall, only eight 
Connelly said he hopes the days of the disappointing fifth runner arc over for the Irish. 
"I thought at the Big East, we had six kids run really really well," he said. "I think it's going to keep getting better as our girls gain more and more conf'idence. On Saturday we hope to have seven runners run really really well." 
Elizabeth Webster, who fin­ished 32nd at the Big East, will try to be that seventh runner. 
If the Irish qualify for the NCAA Tournament, they will compete again Nov. 21 in Terre Haute, Ind. 

places behind Kavan. Senior Jean Marinangeli finished just Contact Chris Khorey at behind De llusso at No. 18. ckhorey@nd.edu 
n't competed since the Big East 
Championships on Oct. 28, will be well rested for the Hegionals. 

Sugarberry Lane 'Welcomes All Students, 
"They had a wonderful week of training last week, and this 

Families & Friends To The Game!
week has been sort of down time," he said. "We're ready." 

While you are in town, be sure to visit 
If the Irish qualify, they will 

compete Nov. 21 in Terre Sugarberry Lane. Bring this ad and SAVE Haute, Indiana in the NCAA Championships. 
15% OFF*
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu on all of your purchases, when you select from our 
in stock regularly priced items. 
This area's FAVORITE VERA BRADLEY Emerald Dealer Great lines of creams and skin care items • Yankee Candles & Plug-in Plus many fine gifts & seasonal decor items 
Locally owned by Mary Farwig and Ann Watson (SMC '65) 
52313 St. Rte 933 North South Bend, IN 574.272.9608 
at 1-ZJ543. 
Friday, November 11, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 35 
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish look for first home win of season today 
University of North Carolina. probably rely heavily on," she

Notre Danze's new 
Despite tho loss, Minnesota's said. "They've all been swim­reeord for the season stands ming very well lately."

coach hopes to lead 
at arr impressive 4-2 mark. The Irish should be well­teanz over Gophers The Irish, howev-prepared for 
er. are not eon­Friday's meet as
"/ think the team
enrnnd with thn Nixon put them

Hy GREG ARBOGAST 
feels that our
dil'l'nrenen in through an extra 

Sport~ Writt•r 
rneords. record doesn't dil'fieult week or "I think the praetiee leading
reflect how 

Tlw wonwn's swimming and team !'nels that up to this meet. diving toam will attnmpt to our record dcws­good we are. " With nnxt week gPt both its first homn win n't rnl'lnet how reserved more and its l'irst singln mont win of' good we are," for f'ine tuning
Julia Quinn

thn Carrie Nixon era this said junior swim­everything
Irish swimmer 

Friday wlwn tlw Minnesota mer Julia Quinn. before Notre (;opht;rs eomn to visit. "Every wnek Damn's own 
Notrn llarnn nntnrs tlw nwnt wn'rn going out trying to Invitational Ment, the Irish corning off' its lirst win of' thn prove to tho country that have put all their c~ITorts into snason. a I:JS-1 05 dt>l'eat of wn'rn a top-20 tnam." training this week. l'itt.sburgh. Tlw mcwt was thn Quinn, who transl'nrrnd to The meet, originally sehnd­swimming team's strongnst Notro Damo from Minnesota. ulnd for 5 p.m. today, has pf'f'ort of' thn sPason as thoy is very familiar with tl11~ bnnn resehnduled to 2 p.m. at won 7 out of 13 nvnnts. Thn Gopher team and knows the the Hoff's Aquatic Center at rnsult pushod Notrn Damn's Irish will be facing a tough Notre Dame. rocord to 1-2 on thn season. t~1st this weok. M i 11 n n so t a ~~ o m o s to So u t h "They have an excellnnt Contact Greg Arbogast at Bond ofT a dosn loss to No. 21 freshman elass that they'll garbogas@nd.edu 


page 36 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, November 11, 2005 
Chaos 
continued from page 40 
throughout the year using both her arm and her legs. 
The offense has been work­ing hard all week long in practice to put in place a new offensive attack. The team seems confident it will put up the points it needs to com­pete with the heavily favored Cavanaugh team. 
The Chaos have had no problems so far this year on either side of the ball. Lisa Ruffer and the Cavanaugh offense have been able to spread the ball in impressive fshion. 
"We definitely like to utilize all of our receivers. They are all awesome," Ruffer said. 
But even the offensive effi­ciency is overshadowed by the consistently airtight defense of the Chaos. The team has allowed a total of six points the entire season. The only score came in a 13­6 win over Lyons, which was the closest margin of victory tho Chaos posted all year long. 
With scores like 6-6, 6-0 and 7-6, the Weasels are no slouches on defense either. The team allows fewer than 10 points a game on average and has pitched two shutouts 
r------------------·, 
I 
r VERA BRADLEY 1 1 
'20% off with ND/SMCStu.l.D. 1 
I  I  
:  trlt~ ~u ~u  I  
1  Elk<.t Bank Emporium R.:maut"lllll Bldg_  1  
I  121 S. Nile» Ave,, (574) 232-8488  I  

L------------------~ 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 

this season. 
"Our defense has got us out of a lot of tough spots and helped us win a lot of big games," captain Julie Putnam said. 
"I think our chances are good despite being the underdogs," Putnam said. "Our team has a lot of spirit and pride, and we are just 
going  to  give  it all we've  
got."  
The  Cavanaugh  team  is  

confident, but definitely isn't taking the Weasels lightly. 
"We can't go in expecting anything, because on any given day, any team can win," Ruffer said. 
The team's leaders are try­ing hard to treat the game as any normal contest, but with a chance to take an unde­feated record into the Stadium, the task is easier said than done. 
Walsh vs. Pangborn 
The Wild Women of Walsh will try to make it to the finals for the second straight year this weekend, but have a tough opponent hoping to stop them in their tracks. Walsh must take down the speedy Pangborn Phoxes this Sunday at 2 p.m. for a chance to defend its title in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Both teams come into the contest with a 5-1 regular 



season record and one play­off win under their belts. The stage is set for a classic showdown, as the high-pow­ered rushing attack of Pangborn will try to crack the notoriously stingy Walsh defense. 
The Phoxes' backfield com­bination of quarterback Katie Mooney and running backs Bryon Johnson and Trish Connely have proved to be almost unstoppable this year, putting up as many as 34 points in a single game. 
In last weekend's quarterfi­nal matchup, Mooney threw two passing touchdowns to her favorite target, Katie Riemersma, in a 12-6 victory over the Welsh Family Whirlwinds. Johnson has been able to use her speed all year long to rack up dou­ble digits in touchdowns, including a 78-yard sprint again Breen-Phillips. 
Pangborn's versatility makes the Phoxes a danger­ous team. 
"Our offense is adaptable -we can pass or run, which has allowed us to be really flexible this year," captain Katie Murray said. 
Walsh will try to stop the multi-faceted Phoxes with a defense that puts it in good position to win games. The Wild Women boast four shutouts, the last of which came in a 7-0 win last week­end against the Lewis Chicks in the first round of the play­offs. 
The Wild Women are excit­ed at the prospect of seeing a new opponent. They hope it will give their offense a little extra help with the element of surprise. 
Julie Campbell leads the team in· interceptions and has been a strong link on the sold defensive team. 
Captain Mary Ellen Botta said interceptions like Campbell's are crucial in the course of a game. 
"I've been really proud of our defense all year for com­ing up with big stops and forcing turnovers when we need them," Botta said. 
Walsh may be the defend­ing champions, but Pangborn is just as experienced in the big games. Last year the Phoxes' season ended on a 
NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick fleece coat is perfect 
for winter. Ask any yak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 
~ 

DUTPD!IT Hours: 
Mon.-Fri.: 1o:oo om· 9:00pm
~ 
Sat: 1o:oo om -B:oo pm 
Cold Weather Experts 
Sun.: 12:oo pm -6:oopm 


controversial call late in the semifinal game. 
"That left us a little bitter and unsatisfied, we know this is our opportunity to make up for it," Murray said. "There are 25 women who can think of nothing else right now." 
The Walsh team also feels confident going into Sunday's game. 
"We know we can do it because we were there last year," Botta said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 




r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, November 11, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 37 

Victory 
continued from page 40 
areas. 
"We have to block out and we have to rebound," McGraw said. "That's going to be our emphasis this week." 
The Bulldogs had a 22-21 edge in rebounds at halftime, despite trailing on the score­board 41-24. The Irish built the lead with an effective full court press that caused many of Ferris State's 31 turnovers for the game. 
"I thought our press was successful in making them CLAIRE KELLEY!The Observer turn the ball over," McGraw The women's basketball team gathers before tipoff against Ferris State on Thursday. The team said. "Also I thought our zone won 9445 before a home crowd. was pretty good. Our-man-to 

Ringtones for $2.49 Text code to386 
My Humps -Black Eyed Peas 

Order Now, Right From Your Phone! · Hustler's Ambition -50 Cent Type in the 6-digit code and text it to 386. A link to your purchase will
Stay Fly -Fall Out Boy 

be sent to your msg inbox! Supported carriers: Cingular.
Run It! -Chris Brown Here We Go Again (feat Kelty Rowland) -Trina 
We Be Burnin' (Legalize It)-Sean Paul I'm Sprung -T-Pain Girl Tonite (feat. Trey Songz) -Twista Don't Cha -Pussycat Dolls 

Games &Apps for as low as $3.99* Text code to386
Play -David Banner I'm aKing (feat. T.l. and Ul' Scrappy)-P$C ,': . -. . . '·

. ~ ~ 
Reggaeton Latino -Don Omar 
• ."" :. 
Sugar, We're Going Down -Fall Out Boy 

!1 IIIII 
141040 141041 141044Soul Survivor -Young Jeezy Gold Digger -Kanye West Presidential -Youngbloodz . 
•
liD• 
HlJl!llJp ~ Gan't Keep Waiting For You) -Madonna 
141047 Welcome to Jamrock -Damian Marley Jesus of Suburbia -Green Day Lighters Up -Lil' Kim 

•-II
141053 141054 141055
Back Then -Mike Jones 141021 Back in Black -AC/DC Shake It Off -Mariah Carey 
Graphics for $1.99 Text code to 386

Stewie's Sexy Party -Family Guy Slow Wind -R. Kelly ·.~
~ .._~r_ J '·.,_..·. ' 
I ·,,

I'm NLuv (Wit a Stripper)-T-Pain Jtv J: -t II ~ ~~#''· 141080 141081 141082 141083 141084 141085
My Hood -Young Jeezy Feel Good Inc. -Gorillaz I ~~fxf: 
-x..,

1-i ;u
.-.-= .... .,""

Bad B*tch -Webbie BOYS .c;,, ~­141086 141087 141088 141089 141090 141091
Because I Got High -Afroman 

man was a little weak 
though." 
Irish guard Tulyah Gaines, 
who recorded three steals in 
the game, said many of the 
turnovers were caused by hus­
tling Irish defenders. 
"!just try to get out there and play a scrap game and try to steal the ball," Gaines, said. 
Duffy and Gaines took turns 
playing point guard for the 
Irish. McGraw praised both 
players' versatility. 
"I thought we had a lot of good spurts," McGraw said. "Tulyah defensively made things happen for us, she ran the ball well. Whenever we needed a basket, Megan was there to make the basket." 
Duffy said playing shooting guard with Gaines at the point helped her find open shots, which led to her coming just one point shy of her career high of 25 points. 
"With Tulyah at the point it takes a lot of pressure off me, especially offensively," she said. 
Schrader, a freshman, was the second-leading scorer for the Irish in only her second collegiate game. McGraw said her quick adjustment was due to her solid fundamentals coming out of high school. 
"! wouldn't say I was sur­prised [with Schrader's contri­bution)," McGraw said. "Before the year I told her we wanted her to play the same way she did in high school." 
Schrader admitted she still 
has room to grow, however. 
"I definitely have to do more off the ball stuff," she said. "I think I can do OK stuff when I have the ball in my hands, but cutting and rolling and read­ing what the defense is doing is something I have to work 
on." 
McGraw said she is still eon­corned with finding another consistent scorer after Duffy and Schrader. 
"Now we have to find a third scorer," McGraw said. "It's probably going to be a post player." 
Center Melissa D'Amico was the third-leading seorer for the Irish Thursday with 16 points. 
Notre Dame got ofT to a fast start Thursday, racing out to a 28-9 lead midway through tho first half. Tho Bulldogs man­aged to outscore the Irish 15­13 for the rest of the half, however, largely with seeond­chance baskets. 
After halftime, Notre Dame jumped ahead quickly, going on a 35-8 run to take a 76-32 lead. From there the Irish coasted, allowing only 21 sec­ond points while scoring 55 of their own. 
The big lnad gave McGraw a chance to usn hnr bench, as 11 Irish players saw action Thursday. 
Notes: 
+ 
The Irish attemptnd 36 free throws to only six for the Bulldogs. Notre Dame con­nected on 27, or 75 percent, while Ferris State hit four, or 66 percent.

+ 
Irish freshman forward Chandrica Smith did not play Thursday for academic rea­sons. 


"She missed some academic obligations, so she missed the game. She'll be baek in prae­ticc tomorrow," McGraw said. 
+ Notre Dame will open the regular season Nov. 18 against No. 19 Michigan at the Joyce Center. The Wolverines have won two exhibition games, against Athletes in Aetion Ohio Legends. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Friday, November 11, 2005

page 38 The Observer + SPORTS 
Quincy 
continued from page 40 
tion is for," Irish forward Tarin Francis said. "To work on things that you need to work on to prepare yourself for the season." 
Francis played well of"fen­sively against Lewis. He fin­ished with eight points on 3­of-6 shooting, while facing double teams for much of the game. 
Brey started Chris Quinn, Colin Falls, Russell Carter, Rob Kurz and Francis in the first exhibition of the season. 
"That group has been really consistent and solid," Brey said. 
Brey anticipates going with the same lineup to begin the game tonight against the Hawks, but will rotate play­ers and experiment with dif­ferent lineups much like he did last week. 
"You're still searching and looking at some combina­tions, and who plays with who best," Brey said. 
"There will be more moving parts this year than ever before. Having said that, at some point you do have to be committed to minutes in cer­tain areas, and when you do that it means you're going to 
be  d.~committed  to  a  guy or  
two.  
Notre  Dame  went  to  a  

smaller lineup against Lewis, using Quinn and freshman point guard Kyle McAlarney in the same backcourt set. The Irish will not have that option Friday, as McAlarney will be sidelined with a sore back. 
"He's an impact guy for us," Brey said. "That rearranges some things this week, but we are going to try to get the back spasm thing calmed down." 
Notre Dame will see the return of forward Rick Cornett instead. Cornett was out with a sore left ankle last Thursday. 
The Irish played well defen­sively against Lewis despite their offensive struggles. Led by Francis' nine blocked shots, Notre Dame limited its opponent to 17-of-56 shoot­ing. 
"I thought we were in very good position the other night," Brey said. "We did a good job continually defend­ing." 
Last season, Notre Dame defeated Quincy 80-61 on Nov. 10, 2004. Quinn led the Irish with 25 points in the game on 8-of-11 shooting, including 5-of-8 from three­point range. 
Notre Dame and Quincy will tip off at 9:30 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Write Sports. Call 
1 4543. 
Hockey 
continued from page 40 
standing performances from Matt Amado (1 goal, 1 assist), Erik Condra (3 assists) and T.J. Jindra (1 goal, 1 assist). Most notable was junior center Josh Sciba, who tallied three goals in the Irish victory. It was the first Notre Dame hat trick since Aaron Gill scored three in the 2004 CCHA Super Six 6-5 loss to Ohio State. 
"If anybody can get three goals in a game for us, includ­ing our entire team, is a good thing," Jackson said of Sciba's performance. ''I'm happy for Josh. He's been one of our most consistent players in the early stages of the season, so that's positive." 
The Irish broke a 4-2 lead wide open soon after the start of the third period, and they did it with style. 
Assistant captain Mike Walsh broke down the right side of the ice into the Bowling Green zone and blew past the Falcon defender to the outside before cutting to the front of the net and backhanding the puck over sprawled out Falcon keeper Jimmy Spratt (19 saves). 
The goal came 4:56 into the period and put the Irish advan­tage at 5-2. And that's when the floodgates opened. 
Jindra flipped the puck over Spratt while being pulled down from behind on a breakaway, and then was followed up with a Sciba breakaway goal off a bounce pass up the boards from Erik Condra to put Notre Dame in the driver's seat at 7­2. 

In the remaining 10 minutes both teams landed punches, scoring two goals apiece. Bowling Green's Jonathan Matsumoto scored to lead off the last-minute flurry. But Notre Dame rallied for two straight goals from Noah Babin and Christian Hanson. 
The Falcons closed it out at 9-4 with Matsumoto's second of the game. 
"It's all business from now on," Walsh said of what the Irish take out of the huge victo­ry. "It feels good to score nine goals. I can't remember if we've scored nine goals since I've been here, but we want another one tomorrow." 
The Irish used the power play to perfection in the latter half of the first to gain on an early deficit. Bowling Green left wing Derek Whitmore was whistled for a five-minute checking from behind major and a game mis­conduct at 14:54 of the first period, giving Notre Dame an extended man advantage. 
Sciba wasted little time in capitalizing on the Falcon's mistake and tied the game at 1­1 on a shot :36 into the power play. Mark Van Guilder assisted on the play, as did Condra. 

Notre Dame continued with its advantage after the goal ­a major penalty is unable to be wiped away by a score -and did away with the frustration that has plagued the special teams unit to date so far this season with a well-placed Tim Wallace shot. 
The Irish power play unit cycled the puck around the Bowling Green defenders with­in their zone and worked the puck to Brock Sheahan on the point. Sheahan found a wide­open Wallace on top of the left circle and fed the senior right winger the disc. Wallace sealed the deal as he slid a shot along the ice between the left post and Falcons keeper Jimmy Spratt's right pad for the 2-1 Irish lead at 18:58. 
Sciba struck again for his second of the night and Notre Dame's third-straight power play goal at 8:57 of the second stanza off a crisp Condra pass. Condra controlled low near the Falcons' net and found Sciba open on the right side. Sciba one-timed and Spratt made the stop, only to allow a rebound that the Irish center roofed on a backhand for the goal. 
Notre Dame opened up its largest lead of the regular sea­son only 24 seconds later when Amado sent a rebound home after an initial shot by defense­man Noah Babin was deflected by Jindra onto Spratt to give the Irish a commanding 4-1 lead. 
"I was really pleased with their effort tonight for the most part," Jackson said. "There was a lot of positives from the game. I'm glad that we came out as well as we did. They played hard and they played smart." 
Bowling Green closed the gap to 4-2 on a scramble in front of Pearce that Falcons' center Matsumoto drove home at 
11:50 of the second frame. Matsumoto corralled the puck in front of Pearce in the midst of an Irish penalty kill, deked to the left post, and shoveled it in for the goal. 
The Falcons struck first on a 2-on-1 rush 9:21 into the first period. Four Irish skaters got stuck deep in the Falcons' zone when a 4-on-2 backfired and the Irish coughed up the puck. Bowling Green attacker Brett Pilkington fired a wrister over Pearce's right shoulder for the goal. 
Irish goalie Jordan Pearce made 20 saves on the game. 
"He made the saves he had to, and he made a couple that were really good," Jackson said. 
The nine-goal victory is the first time the Irish have scored that many goals in a game since a 9-5 win over Western Michigan on Nov. 20, 1998. The Irish face the Falcons again at 
7:35 p.m. tonight at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 




1213 Lincolnway West-Mishawaka Corner of Logan & Lincolnway 
(574) 256-1444 Francesco was Chef at Notre Dame for 25 years! Francesco & Family invite you to dine at their house. Enjoy authentic Italian cuisine from Calabria in an elegant yet casual atmosphere. Whether in front of the fireplace or on the veranda, we look forward to serving you and your guests. 
~VIElLCOMllE lFOOTlB)AlLIL lFlR.lllEND§ 
AND IFAMUllLY!! 
Tuesday-Thursday s:oo-9:oo  Full bar available  
Friday & Saturday  Free bruschetta with ad  
s:oo-1o:oo  Francesco's needs servers  



----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, November 11, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 39 
ERIK POWERS and ALEC WHITE
JOCKULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 
1-\E:'j, I 1-\EI"~ 11-\l"f 
MA'\ f:'.E "/()U '\.-L fi..UD"\ ~u£-r·n<.te.~ 
St.E \-\1M" "7 
I ' 

L"lU'\~ -~ E!:> ~Et=-1'1 ON FoOT&ALL WEa<:E-~DSI 
'"'"'"'us A~u\'\1> "r.Rr. 
"'' q~rr 0\1£. r:.. -ri--1€12-1::' "')11\l(E 9.<Vtl, 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
()"' ... Hr-.'i· W\-lf'IT5 Uf> 

C:IEN'TLEME.N. \ C:t~eSS 'IOU \NPINT f>-.N AUTo(rl'!p.PH 
f\2-0M  'TKE  ONE  A.NP  
ONL'\  ~u.~~.  FOLLOW  
'10\.A~  D~E:.f\.1"\S  OR.  

\Nrl~»l F-\IE.R ,:>.,ND 'JO U. Cp.N 'e.E \...\~E. ME ..... 
JUMBLE 

JJ~ID1JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
TABOL 
(J ( j 

©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. A11 Rights Reserved. 
BABIR 
j

I I ( (] 
tGROAND I
IJ I 
www.jumble.com 

Yesterday' I Jumbles: MIDGE s Answer: 
How the family's day at the beach tumed out-"SWIMMINGLY" 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
These signs are making 
me hungry and sleepy g 
READING TH~ AOV~RTISING SIGNS ON THE: ROAD MAP L-~FT HIM--­
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above car­
{Answers tomorrow) SHINY UNWISE COLUMN 

CROSSWORD  WILL SHORTZ  
ACROSS  28 Jake's lover in  55 More than a  
1 Sting, basically 5 Vera Miles. in 1948  "The Sun Also Rises" 30 Hearty meat dish  little off 56 Scooby-Doo and others 57 1979 revolution  
15 City surrounded  31 Bunch of sitcom  locale  
on two sides by  characters  
Toiyabe National Forest  32 Fellahs  DOWN  
16 "Is this really my fault?"  33 Stretched out 34 Calf muscle  1 "Masterpiece Theatre" it ain't  
11 About 18 House style  37 Upset 41 Online greeting 42 Pontiff for just  2 Change from a hit to an error, say  
19 Video store  26 days in 1605  3 West Indies  
section  43 Choice for un  island  
21 It opens Letterman's  44  volant track  4 Disappearing word  
"Viewer Mail"  45 Drink that's  5 Humanities  
22 Berkshire, e.g.  stirred  degs.  
23 It might get busted  46 Bird of the American Arctic  6 Entreats 7 Start to write?  
25 Wrestler Flair. 10-time N.W.A. world  that migrates south 49 Forger  8 Laugh maker 9 Actor Yaphet _,of TV's  
heavyweight  51 Mistaken  "Homicide"  
champion  53 Hard  10 Equipped  33 Los Angeles  37 Seasonal  44 Hooked up and  
26 Straight up  54 Zip  11 What an A is  suburb  recurrence  left  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE ';';';1--:-1-="1-::;"1-="~":71r::'"1  not 12 Took pleasure in  34 Picking up 35 Reagan  38 Watch 39 Carnival  47 "Now that's awesome!"  
-:+~~~~+:.:-! w=+..:+:i:-+=-1  13 Shower cap at a motel, maybe 14 cu11 s 20 1930's-50's Arab ruler 24 Univ. military  Supreme Court nominee 36 1961 Michelangelo Antonioni film aka "The Night"  displays 40 "You said it!" 42 Home of the Chiefs in minor-league baseball  48 Chap 50 Landlocked land of 12 million 52 Bunch of fun  
programs  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a27 Hunter with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
middle initial Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
of J 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 28 Shows disdain 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 .::+;,+.+.:-+..:::+.::+=-! 29 Indian dignitary past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). -:-:-:+-:-::+=+:::+::+:-+=-1 31 John Deere Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young product solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEHRITIES HORN ON THIS DAY: Chris Joannou, 26; Mackenzie Phillips, 46; Sinhad, 49; Donna Fargo, 60 
Happy Hirthday: It will he up to you to keep things moving this year. Don't let 
others make decisions that will alter your path. An unusual oppor1unity may not 
be as good as you lirstthought. Don't let anger or impulsiveness take over. lly 
staying calm, you will stay on top of things. Your numbers arc 3, I0, 18, 26, 33, 
45 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): A culture shock might he just what you need to get you thinking and moving in a new direction. Don't hesitate to speak up if you have something relevant to say. Your words may he exactly what someone you care about needs to hear. • • • TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't give in to somcone's demands. Stick to your own game plan. You may, however, end up severing a relationship with 
·­
someone who has always held you hack. Change is probably overdue. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): Just because you arc in an adventurous mood 
doesn't mean you should cast your fate to the wind. There arc too many things 
that can go wrong today. Maintain control over the outcome. • • 
CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): Consider what you can do, not what you can't. 
You will have a rare opportunity to do something out of the ordinary, so take 
advantage. Seize the moment and you will not be disappointed. ••••• 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Let someone else do his or her thing li.>r a change. By 
being humble you will impress the people around you and end up getting what 
you want. Use your head, and don't be fooled by the compliments coming your 
way. ••• 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A relationship will develop ifyou let down your 
guard and get to know someone better. You have Jots to gain and plenty to offer 
if you aren't bullheaded about how you see things unfolding. ••• 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can make some changes in the way you cam 
your living. You will discover you can end up with more than you originally 
thought possible. An opportunity will arise through someone you haven't spoken 
to in a while. ••• 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Go aflcr whatever you want--the biggest crime 
would be to watch someone else do something you know you can do better. Be 
unique and open to the possibilities. Nothing is too great to achieve ifyou put 
your heart and soul into it. ••••• 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-l>ec. 21): You may not be thinking too straight today. 
Don't make promises impulsively. Chances arc pretty good you won't he able to 
fulfill your intentions. Someone will be emotional about your treatment of him 
or her.** 

CAI'RICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): Partnerships arc looking very positive. A 
chance to share your ideas and develop something lucrative is in the stars. Don't 
let a romantic relationship sulfer because you don't have enough time to nurture 
it. •••• AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feh. 18): Money matters will work themselves out ifyou discuss your plans with those to whom you arc indebted. I lave a game plan in place and be confident about what you can do. Stability is the name of the game.••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will he emotional and must be very carcli1l what you say. You may live to regret it ifyou blurt out how you feel. Take time to cool down or to give some thought to what the people around you need* • • Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, creative and very emotional. You arc unique, loving and can be very manipulative. You can he evasive when necessary and very cutting ifyou want your point heard. 
Eugenia's Weh sites: astroadvice.com.fi~rfim, eugenialast.com{i~r cmifidential consultatiom· 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, November 11, 2005 
page 40 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Coming out strong 
Duffy leads team with 24 points in victory 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
Megan Duffy scored 24 points and Lindsay Schrader added 19 as the No. 15 Notre Dame women's basketball team crushed an overmatched Ferris State team 96-45 Thursday at the Joyce Center. 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw said despite the lopsided score, the team did not live up to her expectations in several 
see VICTORY/page 37 


HOCKEY 
Sciba notches hat trick in 9-4 victory 
game. We took some penalties we shouldn't have taken, and we turned the puck over. This group has got to learn how to win." 
Jackson praised aspects of his team's game, notably the special teams area, a sore spot for the Irish thus far. But Thursday was a different story, as they scored four power play goals but struggled slightly on the penalty kill after allowing two in with a man down. 
The Irish were solid up and down the lineup, with out-
see HOCKEY/page 38 


By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

Irish head coach Jeff Jackson walked into the locker room after Notre Dame's 9-4 drubbing of Bowling Green on Thursday night and let his team have it. 
Most teams would be ecstat­ic over trouncing a quality opponent like the Falcons, but not this Irish squad -and not under Jackson's watch. 
"I got mad at them," Jackson said of his post-game speech. "I thought we were real sloppy in the last 10 minutes of the 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish face Division II Quincy 
Offensive production is main part of Brey's gameplan for tonight 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Ediwr 
Notre Dame will look to improve its scoring produc­tion when it plays Division II Quincy tonight at the Joyce Center, Irish coach Mike Brey 
said Wed­nesday. 
''I'd like to see us be better offen­sively, to get off to a bet­ter start," Brey said. "That has 

been the Francis focus since last Friday." 
Notre Dame shot just 36 percent from the field in its 59-40 win over Lewis University Nov. 3. 
The offensive production will start with Chris Quinn and Colin Falls -who shot 4-of-14 and 3-of-10, respec­tively, against Lewis. Quinn finished as the high scorer for the Irish with 14 points, despite starting off 2-of-11 from the field. 
Notre Dame was 9-of-36 in the first half as a team. "That's what for the exhibi­
see QUINCY/page 38 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL PLAYOFFS 
Chaos, Walsh hope to return to Stadiulll 
McGlinn into the semifinals. 

By DAN MURPHY The 6-0 victory was almost 
Sports Writer expected from the Purple 
Weasels, who have played 

There's only one obstacle in tight games all year long. left remaining betwe en Pasquerilla West finished Cavanaugh and a trip to the season with two wins Notre Dame Stadium. The and two ties. The team will undefeated Chaos squad need another big game has flown through its first from its defense, which has seven games unscathed, given the Weasels a chance blowing most of its oppo­in each of their games. nents out of the water. Quarterback Cara Davies 
Their opponent Sunday at has also been able to come 1 p.m., fifth-ranked up with clutch scoring Pasquerilla West, needed overtime to get past see CHAOS/page 36 


WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
MEN'S SWIMMMIP&G 
FOOTBALL 

ND to continue Navy series 
tions, as next year's game is By MIKE GILLOON 

scheduled for Baltimore and the Sports Editor 
2012 contest will be played in 
Dublin, Ireland. 

Notre Dame and Navy will Representatives of both uni­extend their historic series for at versities were pleased with the least another 10 years, accord­agreement. ing to a statement released on "I am pleased we have been the Notre Dame athletic Web site able to continue the series which und.com Thursday. is a highlight for our student­
The contract between the Irish athletes and fans every fall," and Midshipmen was set to Navy athletics director Chet expire after their 2006 matchup, . Gladchuk said. "Two institutions but the schools have agreed to of similar values rekindling a an extension that ensures the lengthy and well-respected rela­series -currently in its 79th tionship make this game spe­consecutive year -will continue cial." into the 2016 season. 
The squads will face each Contact Mike Gillon at other in several different loca-mgilloon@nd.edu 
NO VOUEVBAU 
NHl 
Notre Dame vs. 
Notre Dame at 
Notre Dame takes 

Fl~ers 3 
Irish Insider ~L~
Michigan State

---~ 
Minnesota 
on Big East foes 

Is anders 2 
Today, 2 p.m. 
After breaking a 15­

a:!5 
\)
The No. 18 Irish travel 
game winning streak, 

Patrick Sharp's two 
Notre Dame 
The Irish look for 
to East Lansing today in 
the volleyball team 

goals put Philadelphia 
begins its quest for a second
their first home win 
hopes of their first-ever 
hopes to rebound this 

over New York on 
== against the Gophers. 
win at Michigan State. 
weekend. 

Thursday night. 
straight national title tonight against 
=: 

en 
page 33 
page 33
page 35 
page 27 

Valparaiso at Alumni Field. 
·, 


. . .
' 
I 

I •. .. 
page 2 Friday, November 11, 2005 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Navy rivalry more than football 
It's more than just a foot­ball game. 
By now we all know that Notre Dame has beaten Navy the past 41 years. We all know that none other than 
R o g e r Staubach was the last Midshipmen quarterback to beat the Irish. 
But what we some­

times forget Heather Van is that the Hoegarden Navy-Notre Dame game Sports Writer is always about more than football. It's about pride. It's about passion. Most of all, it's about respect -a respect for what each school has done for the other. 
On the heels of Frank Leahy's 1943 national cham­pionship season, World War II had escalated, and Leahy left to serve in the Navy. 
The war took many young men from then-all-male Notre Dame, presenting financial problems for the University as its enrollment dropped dramatically. But with the war came a need for more trained officers than the Naval Academy could provide. So they instituted a program in which Universities across the nation became a place for young men to receive a col­lege education as well as officer training. Notre Dame was one of these sites. 
And so Notre Dame's enrollment increased, and the school survived through the war. As a result of Navy's gesture to keep Notre Dame afloat during the war, the Irish agreed to play the Midshipmen on the football field annually for as long as Navy wanted. The two teams had first met in 1927. 
Even when Irish coach Charlie Weis, a 1978 Notre Dame graduate, was at Notre Dame, he sensed a respect for the Naval Academy. 
"I know one thing, the academies were something that we always revered in a different light than any other opponent," Weis said. "They were like their own separate entity. And I think that you get a Catch 22 here because you have an opponent on the one hand that you want to beat badly. On the other hand, the respect factor for the young men that you're going against is higher than anyone else you're going against because you know that they've chosen a path that when their college careers are over, they're not going to go play in the NFL, they're not going to go take some cush job, they're going to go represent our country. It's a different mentality alto­gether." 
The fact remains -the Navy-Notre Dame is special. 
Notre Dame has full-pads intramural football, just as Navy has full-pads sprint football. Notre Dame is revered for its academics and Catholic identity and its ability to balance that with athletic excellence. Navy is revered for the men and women that make a commit­ment to serve their country, all while maintaining Division-! athletic programs. 
"We understand that these are dedicated Navy men," Irish running back Darius Walker said. "These are the guys that are fighting for the country. We have much respect for these guys and the things they are doing out there. For them, football is kind of like a leisure activity. It's one of those fun things they do, so they're really playing for the love of the game." 
And among all of this, what about football? What about the 79 consecutive years Navy and Notre Dame have battled on the gridiron? 
Well, every year Navy gets closer to getting a win. 
In 2002, it was Notre Dame quarterback Carlyle Holiday who stepped up and made two plays with the Irish down eight late in the game. He first hit Omar Jenkins to set up the tying touchdown and then hit Jenkins again for a 67 -yard touchdown pass with 2:08 remaining to give Notre Dame a 30-23 win against Navy, who was 1-8 at the time. 

Two years ago it was Irish kicker D.J. Fitzpatrick's 40­yard field goal as time expired that allowed the Irish to escape 27-24 at home. 
Last year, Notre Dame finally beat Navy by a larger margin, 27-9, dealing the Midshipmen their first loss of the season. 
And so the Navy-Notre Dame rivalry has become less of Notre Dame beating up on Navy as it has been some close games. 
But in 2003, even as Irish fans were jumping up and down with excitement as Fitzpatrick's kick fluttered through the uprights, they soon calmed down as Navy left Notre Dame Stadium through the tunnel on their end of the stadium. 
"U-S-A, U-S-A," the student section chanted as the Midshipmen ran through the tunnel. 
And why? 
Because Notre Dame-Navy is about so much more than just football. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd. edu. 
gaine hype 

CharlieWeis Irish head coach 
"It's a 

different mentality, not ofpower but ofa speed­driven offense." 

Maurice Stovall Irish quarterback 
"It would be tough for us to play Notre Dame ifwe played them in the parking lot ofK-Mart. '' 
"''m not looking at what happened the previous 41 games. I'm only looking at this 
, 
game. 

Derek Landri Irish defensive tackle 
"Every time we play Navy they play with all their heart. Those guys are the type of guys who go on and ... sacrifice their lives for our country. " 


Accepting Reservations for Post-Game Dining 
Outdoor Dining: Outdoor Grill On the Weekends 


Live Entertainment: Some of the 
Best Blues, Jazz &Classic Rock 
219 N. Front Street in the area 
Niles, Ml 49120 
269-684-2233 

www. nilesriverf rontcafe. com Great menu featuring gourmet 
Soups, Salads, Sandwiches,
**Located in downtown Niles 10 minutes from the University Pizzas &Baked Pastas 
Serving Espresso Drinks and the Cafe's own Specialty Drinks 
Art Gallery &Gift Shop 
Friday, November II, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Widely received 
Senior wideout Maurice Stovall has coaches, teammates-and himself-'singing' praises 
By PAT LEONARD 
Spons Wrirer 
When Notrn Dame prodaimnd its ·Heturn to Glory' thrne sna­sons ago, Maurice Stovall -a freshman involuntarily became tlw face or the cam­paign. 
Sports Illustrated threw a photo of Stovall's touchdown catch against Michigan State on its front eover. Everyone in the eountry could identify the tall wid1~ rncniv1~r from Philadelphia. 
The hype around the program grew. 'l'hl~ proliln of Stovall grew nven largnr -lw had been a first-team USA Today Ali­Anwriean in high school. And tlum, with no warning and only a silly Sl curse to blame, the Irish and Stovall both sank off tlw national radar. 
For thrne seasons, Stovall was a prominnnt player in an unpro­ductive ofl'nnsn, catching just six total touchdowns. lie swears the eover photo had nothing to do with his porformance. 
"It didn't put any pressure on mn at all." Stovall said. "You can't allow stuff like that to afl'od you." 
No matter now. In his senior season, Stovall has morphed into a tough, lean receiver who can poso mismatchns and exploit dofensiv1~ backs with his 6-foot-5 framn. And don't let the sudden production fool you. Stovall insists the player hn is now has b1Hm in South Bond all along. 
"I don't think you can just have everything really thrown into orw soason," Stovall said. "It's basically a build up of maturity from your freshman ymtr. And ... lmcauso of the changing of our program, lyou'rol givon morn opportunity to showcase your skills and your talt~nts and be ahh~ to do that eonsistonl.ly on a basis with thn type of offense that wn hav1~." 
Maylw that Pxplai ns why Stovall is on paco to catch morn passos this Simson (63) than lw did in his first thr111~ snasons eomhinod ((,I). Maybe it explains why he's caught the same amount of touchdowns through night games (six) that he did from 2002 to 2004. 
Or maybe it has nothing to do with football. 
Through the grapevine 
"Mo" is old school. llis team­mates t11ll him, and he knows it. 
Th1~ description doesn't fit his personality, though, as much as it fits his musical tastes. But then maybe again it docs describe Stovall's personality since, as running back Darius Walker puts it, "011' the field and even on the field, Mo is a singer." 



Stovall constantly keeps a tune, and not only in his head. The senior receiver takes his vocals and his smooth attitude from the shower to the locker room to the practice field, rang­ing in musical tastes from Barry White to Marvin Gaye to the Temptations and beyond. 
"He'll throw on ... all sorts of things from back in the day," Walker said. 
It's this laid-back attitude, combined with a resilient work ethic:. that rnakns Stovall a well­liked and respected member of the Irish squad. 
Since playing at Archbishop Carroll in Philadolphia, Stovall said hn has always brought the same altitude to football and to life -ho has fun and works hard. 
"Every time we see him, he's singing," Walker said. "Every time wn're at practice, he's singing. And it really helps to sort of create a calm atmosphere for us. It's not so serious all the time. 
"It's really good to be able to let go a little bit and to play around a little bit in the huddle. Even sometimes in the games he'll joke around." 
But once the huddle has bro­ken this season, Stovall has reversed roles, wiping the smiles <m~-~y-one ofl' opposing defend­ers faces. 
The senior receiver has 42 catches in eight games for 666 total yards, an average of 15.9 yards per catch, second only to Jell' Samardzija (17 .2). Stovall's 
83.2 yards per game average also establishes him as an imme­diate threat to upcoming oppo­nents. 
But catching morn passes was only half the battle. Stovall dimbed back not only into a reg­ular rhythm -he always played significant minutes -but into a complete receiver. 
A firm stance 
Samardzija broke two records in Notre Dame's win against Tennessee last Saturday. Strong safnty Tom Zbikowski scored two return touchdowns. But Irish coach Charlie Weis had only one favorite individual per­formance after reviewing the game tape. 
"The guy I was pleased with the most was actually Maurice Stovall," Weis said at his Sunday press conference. "He only had a couple catches on the gamn and one for a touchdown. but he made snveral critical blocks in this game and ended up leading us to having production. Sometimes we single out stat guys rather than things that happen in a game that help us win." 
At two turning points in the win over the Volunteers, Stovall made key blocks to free up big plays for Notre Dame. 
Stovall made the final block that sprung tight end Anthony Fasano for Notre Dame's first touchdown of the contest. He also helped pave the way for Samardzija on a 73-yard com­pletion down to the Tennessee 2­yard line. 
And Walker said Stovall's role in those plays must not go unno­ticed. 
"The receiver's block is ... not only impprtant for me, but it's important for the other receivers as they're running their routes," Walker said. "In order for a play to work and in order for it to be a big play, I think thn receivers have to get the blocks. 
"Whenever you see me run­ning down the sideline or !tight end Anthony! Fasano running down the sideline, that means ono of t.ho recoivers made their block." 
Stovall's example on the field has caused players like Walkor to view him as a leader. And the production -be it catching passes or planting defenders on their backs -could have NFL scouts licking their chops for a proven 6-foot-5 threat. 

Stovall, though, said his focus remains at Notre Dame -for now. 
"I think about [the NFL] some­times but not a lot," he said. ''I'm just basically trying to enjoy the rest of my college season with my teammates, this groat facility here, this campus and then we'll take it from there." 
A lighter option 
Stovall's sudden resurgenee has provoked numerous conjec­tures on its origin. Some, as Stovall suggested, eredit Weis' prolif'ie ol'fense. Some credit quarterback Brady Quinn. But Stovall is sick of hearing how his weight affects his play following the well-documented story of' Weis telling Stovall to drop a few pounds at the beginning of spring practice. 
"My weight loss has been a factor in my change of play, but that's not everything," Stovall said. "That's not it. I think a lot of people think that the reason I'm doing so well is just because of my weight. It's not that at all. 
It's a buildup of' things nwntally, physically and emotionally." 
He has proven that he, as an experinneed senior, ean use those emotions to lwtwfit himself and the Irish on the field. 
"Wiwn you see a player liko that, it rnally rubs oil' on evory­body nlse," Walker said. 
But some of tho emotion snnaks out in the form of song, and Walker is not as quick to throw praise Stovall's way. 
"lie thinks he's a good singer. lin's an alright singer in my opinion, but hn really thinks he's a good singer," the running ba!:k said. "You know how those guys are when they really think they ean do something'! Tlwy sort of' overdo it." 
But after shrugging ofT early career setbacks, Stovall now easily dispatches of any criti­cism. 
"No, I don't think I'm a good singer," Stovall said, a wink all but implied. "My teammates do." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
by the numbers 
Increase in Notre Dame's total offensive yards per game from last year's total. This is the second best improve­ment in the country, behind No.1 Southern California. 
128.5 

11 
Notre Dame's BCS rank. The Irish were ranked No. 14 before their win over Tennessee. 
Points Navy scored in the first quarter in Saturday's 49-21 victory over Tulane. II was the most points Navy scored in a first quarter since Nov. 22, 2003. 
28 Number of Navy rushing touchdowns scored this season, compared to the team's four passing scores. 
Consecutive'sellouts at Notre Dame Stadium. The first130 came 
when the Stadium seated 59,075 people. 
184 

41 
Consecutive games Notre Dame has beaten Navy, the longest streak in the nation. 

Friday, November 11, 2005

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 

HEAD
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 6-2 AP: 7 Coaches: 7 
Charlie Weis first season at Notre Dame career record: 
6-2 
at Notre Dame: 
6-2 
against Navy: 0-0 

Notre Dame Fighting Irish 

NOTRE DAME 2005 Schedule  
Sept. 3 at Pittsburgh-W Sept. 10 at Michigan -W Sept. 17 MICHIGAN ST. -L Sept. 24 at Washington -W Oct. 1 at Purdue-W Oct. 15 ""usc-L Oct. 22 BYU-W Nov.5 TENNESSEE Nov. 12 NAW Nov. 19 SYRACUSE Nov. 26 at Stanford  


NOTRE DAME 
OFFENSE 

TAILBACK 3-Woiker 
~ ~~~:.~~ 
~~ 
RlGHTGUARD 
74-Stevenson. 
62-Raridon 

TIGHT END 
88-Fasano 
89-Carlson 
WIDE RECEIVER IIJ..Samardzija 
82-Sheltnn 


COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
Weis is having a better start to his coaching career than most pundits expected, as the Irish are 6-2 this season and ranked No. 7 nationally. He calls the plays for a Notre Dame  Quinn has captained the Irish offense into the top 10 and has tossed a school­record 23 scoring passes on the season. He has thrown touchdown passes in each of the past 13  After a hot start that included four consecutive 100-yard games, Walker has slowed recently. He ran for just 62 yards last week against Tennessee. Fullback Rashon Powers­ Quinn has teamed with Maurice Stovall and Jeff Samardzija to put together one of the best statistical seasons in Irish history. Stovall nabbed four TDs in Notre Dame's 49-23 win  
offense that has racked up 38.2 points per game and averages 334.4 passing yards per contest.  games for Notre Dame. The third-year starter has 299 attempts this season with just four interceptions.  Neal has six TDs on the season but has not played since Oct. 1 at Purdue due to undisclosed reasons.  over BYU on Oct. 22 while Samardzija has caught at least one touchdown in every game this season.  
Paul Johnson has led Navy to 18 wins in the past two seasons after the program had just two winning seasons in the previous 20 years. He led Navy to a 34-19 win over  Senior Lamar Owens owns three 100-yard rushing games this season in Navy's option offense. He has racked up 585 yards rushing and 936 passing yards with four  Navy is allowing 159.4 rushing yards per game and have given up 15 touchdowns on the ground this season. Nose guard Larry Cylc is only 265 pounds but has 25  Navy has recorded nine interceptions in 2005 and surrenders an average of 182.2 passing yards per game. Outside linebackers David Mahoney and Tyler Tidwell have combined for  
New Mexico in last year's Emerald Bowl and is 25­19 in his four years in Annapolis.  touchdowns in 2005 while leading Navy to a 5-3 record and the cusp of bowl eligibility.  tackles and tallied a forced fumble. Linebacker Rob Caldwell leads Navy with 96 tackles.  12 sacks this season. The secondary is young with three juniors and one sophomore starting.  
Johnson has taken a Navy program from the depths of college football to  Quinn is having one of the greatest statistical seasons in Irish hist6ty,  Notre Dame has not dominated on the ground in the past several games.  Notre Dame is one of the best passing teams in the country while the  
ctability.=sWeis has also ·'"'a at a BCS bowl in 2005. Weis'  racking up 23 TD passes. Owens is a senio;r.; a ,, tough runner and must> be credited for leading ...· Navy to a winning ;;;  But its size and athletic advantage over Navy should make running successfully possible on Saturday. Darius Walker  Midshipmen defensive backs are young and short ­no starting cornerback is over 6-feet tall. Quinn has a 23 touchdovyns and only four  
play-calling will be tested by Johnson's ability to motivate his underdog team.  record. Quinn's accurate arm and leadership gi.yes him the edge. \ ,,:  and Travis Thomas will be a tough duo to stop for the Navy defensive line.  interceptions. Navy should have its hands full with Stovall and Samardzija.  

Charlie Wels head coach 
Roster 

No. Name 
1 D.). Hord 3 Darius Walker 4 Anthony Vemaglia 5 Rhema McKnight 6 Ray Herring 7 Darrin Bragg 8 junior jabbie 9 Tom Zbikowski 

10 Brady Quinn 11 David Grimes 12 Marty Mooney 
~~ 6~~~ds~1~? 
15 Leo Perrine 16 Rashon Powers-Neal 17 Geoffrey Price 17 Dan Gorski 18 Chinedum Ndukwe 19 D.). Fitzpatrick 20 Terraillambert 21 Maurice Stovall 22 Ambrose Wooden 23 Chase Anastasio 23 W. David Williams 24 Brandon Erickson 
25 Nate Schiccatano 
26 Wade lams 
26 Travis Thomas 
27 David Bruton 27 john Lyons 28 Kyle McCarthy 
~ ~~;;~~Jl!';:on 
31 jake Carney 32 jeff jenkins 32 Alvin Reynolds )r. 33 justin Hoskins 34 Tommie Lee 35 Ashley McConnell 35 Tim Kenney 
36 Brandon Harris 
37 Matt Mitchell 38 Nick Possley 
39 Brandon Hoyte 

40 Maurice Crum, Jr. 41 Scott Smith 42 Kevin Washington 
43 AnthonJ;,Salvador 
~ ~!~f2ioi~wapp 
45 Rich Whitney 46 Corey Mays 47 Mitchell Thomas 48 Steve Quinn 
~b ~:~t~~~:cr 
52 joe Brockington 53 joseph Boland 54 David Fitzgerald 56 Nick Borseti 
~~ ~~~r~;~d.henson 
59 james Bent 60 Casey Cullen 61 ).).jansen 62 Scott Raridon 63 jeffllsak 66 Derek Landri 
~ :%~K~~~ 
71 james Bonelt 72 Paul Duncan 73 Mark LeVoir 74 Dan Stevenson 75 Chris Frome 76 Bob Morton 77 Michael Turkovich 78 john Sullivan 
79 Brian Mattes 
81 RobWoods 82 Matt Shelton 83 jeff Samardzija 114 Michael O'Hara 85 joey Hiben 86 Mike Talerico 87 Marcus Freeman 88 Anthony Fasano 89 john Carlson 90 Brian Beidatsch 91 Craig Cardillo 92 Derrell Hand 93 Dan Chervanick 94 Justin Brown 95 Victor Abiamiri 96 Bobby Renkes 96 Pat Kuntz 98 Trevor Laws 99 Ronald Talley 
Pos. 
WR RB DB WR DB WR RB DB QB WR QB QB QB DB RB 
p 
QB DB 
KIP 
DB WR CB WR DB WR DL DB RB DB RB DB DB DB DB RB DB RB DB RB DB DB DB WR LB LB LB LB LB RB K DB LB LB LB FB OL LB LB OL LB DL LB OL DL LS OL OL DL OL DL OL OL OL OL DL OL OL OL OL WR WR WR WR TE TE TE TE TE DL K DL DL DL DL 
K 
DL 
DL 
DL 
Ht. Wt. YR 6-1 198 FR 5-11 200 so 6-3 221 so 6-1 215 SR 6-0 199 FR 6-1 192 so 6-0 188 so 5-11 203 )R 6-4 231 JR 6-0 170 FR 6-2 207 SR 6-2 207 FR 6-2 196 so 6-0 186 so 6-3 238 SR 6-3 186 JR 6-3 196 FR 6-2 219 JR 6-2 206 SR 5-11 188 so 6-5 222 SR 5-11 197 JR 6-2. 203 JR 5-10 170 so 6-0 178 so 6-2 237 SR 5-9 188 so 6-0 215 )R 6-2 187 FR 6-1 205 JR 6-0 189 FR 5-9 190 JR 5-11 193 SR 6-0 187 SR 6-0 232 SR 5-10 180 so 5-10 186 so 6-2 200 )R 6-0 247 JR 6-0 180 JR 6-0 198 SR 5-8 187 SR 6-1 183 so 6-0 236 SR 6-0 220 so 6-3 234 FR 
LLI
6-1 231 FR 6-2 233 SR 
~ 
6-0 250 FR 
<C
5-10 183 JR 6-2 213 JR 
Q 
6-1 234 SR 6-3 240 JR 
LLI 
6-2 220 JR 
a:: 
6-3 220 JR 
...... 
6-4 290 SR 
0
6-1 212 )R 6-2 242 SR 
z 6-4 293 SR 6-4 238 JR 6-2 252 JR 6-1 220 so 6-2 265 SR 6-1 238 JR 6-3 242 so 6-7 304 SR 6-3 305 FR 6-3 263 SR 6-5 288 JR 5-11 260 SR 6-5 280 SR 6-7 292 FR 6-7 311 SR 6-6 292 SR 6-5 268 SR 6-4 292 SR 6-6 290 FR 6-4 298 JR 6-6 285 SR 6-2 208 SR 6-0 172 SR 6-5 216 JR 5-10 180 SR 6-4 253 FR 6-5 245 so 6-3 245 SR 6-5 255 SR 6-5 255 SR 6-3 294 SR 6-0 174 JR 

(/)
6-3 301 FR 6-1 259 SR 
-
(/) 6-3 247 so 6-4 260 JR 
~ 
6-0 195 JR 
<C 
6-2 267 FR 
z
6-1 293 JR 6-4 261 so 
<C 
Heather Van Hoegarden 
AME 



FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 45 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31 Navy 17 Navy 10 
Pat Leonard 
Managing Editor 
,• ,. ·,
·.·• t 

Friday, November II, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

Midshipmen
HEAD Navy 
Record: 5-3 
AP: NR Navy Midshipmen Coaches: NR 

Paul Johnson Fourth season at Navy 
NAVY 
2005 Schedule 
career record: 
82-27
Sept. 3 at Maryland -L 
at Notre Dame: Sept. 10 STANFORD-L 
20-17 


against Notre Paul Johnson Oct.1 at Duke-W 
Dame: 0-3 head coach 
Roster 

Name Pos. Ht. t1on Monts 
OLB 6-0 

nathon Peofles SB 5-10 
mar Owen 5-9
~B 

6-0 ri n a~ton 5-11
~oer rrr,1or 
HunterA our ~ 5-10 Brandon Wright 6-0 Keenan Little 5-11 Dorian S~ith CB 5-H Logan Co f:Jl: WR 5-10 
2/l 

Garth Davi son WR 6-3 
Dell Robinson s 5-11 R'!e Came,?ell 
SB 5-6 

Ste en Bm nlee CB 6-0 
zy mY,McGown CB 5-11 
ames Polanco s 6-0 WR 6-0
K\l,S,~~ku-Enhada 2Jl!WR 5-11
Ketric Buffin 5-7 5-11
~r~~~rruce 8fB 6-4 
Brett [!c:,imby s 6-1 
~~l't lvfl~~helson 6-2 
~~ 6-2 

Cia/\ Carter 6-4 
Mr, t Garcia-Bragiel CB 5-8 
s 5-11

~fDeliz
arrod Bryand 5-10 
urtis Sha~ ~~ 6-4 
s 6-0

r~t~a~~ro~g 
CB 5-10 
SB 5-9

8re~tl',ine~o
re ra r CB 5-8 
Ca · }INic~ofs s 6-0 
TreX ines SB 5-9 
Ka Mot~r,ama DB 6-2 
Adam Ba ard FB 6-1 
Kerwin Scott 5-7 
~~ 5-10

¥~t~tn!~::' (,.{)
~B 

6-2 ~se h Pro itt WR 5-9Gre~ Suddf{;th 
uj an Price s 5-11 
Jim McMenamin LB 6-0 
Andrew Wright 6-0 
Shun White ~~ 5-9 
Marco Nelson SB 5-7 
Kevin SnJ';der CB 5-11 
p

Greg Vet to 6-1 6-0 >rdan Re~an ~ 5-9
t1ke Scott 
ddie Ma n SB 5-10 
Scott Reider LB 6-0 
Karlos Whittaker SB 
~-11

M.tttHall FR .-10 ~ron McCij'
en~ Ray orrison t~ t-1? 
K 6-0

R~~rh B~a~~~ OLB 6-2 
K 5-10

~1::\ ~~~~alez OLB 6-0 David Mahoney OLB 5-9 Cory Colistra s 5-10 Victor Strausbaugh WR 6-0 Eric Kcttani FB 6-1 
OLB 6-2

~~\~i~tt§~annon FB 5-11 
DE 6-3

li~~gt~~r LB 5-11 rmes Stricl1and LS 6-2 
ohn Forbes SB 5-7 
,ukc Cclden LB 6-1 
SB 5-8

~~i~io(;~.~~ri~fe~ LS 6-2 
Mich.tel Walsh 6-2 
~>n Tigani ~~r 5-7 
t.•ramY. Chase D. 6-2 
lt'C ic LB 5-11 
harl\;s Crandell OT 6-7 LB 5-8
~g~h~w~~ii~~i OT 6-1 ~cob Biles LB 5-11 
hris Bordino OT 6-2 
Will Searle DE 6-4 
~>sh Meek OT 6-1 
had Petl•rson 6-4 Matt Wimsatt 6-1 (rv srrencer LB 6-0 ~rd n Young OLR 6-0 
§l:s 
OG 6-6

Mr~~!!f~m Bargen OT 6-5 
Rob Caldwell LB 6-0 
Sander Gossard OL 6-4 
~m Alvarado LB 6-2 
akcTenuta 6-1 ach Gallion §8B 6-2 josh Novotny 6-4 esse Scheff 6-2
§? 5-11

~~Vih~l~~~~ 6-1 
Chris Mozer OT 6-0 
Paul Brid\l"rs 6-3
8t

Rxan R"" mg 6-3 
Eo Kotulski DE 6-5 
6-1

~~e{:v~~a~~lowski 8c 6-1 
c 5-11

~~~& ~i)~~~~nd DE 6-3 Alex Horne LB 6-0 Crai~lmond OT 6-2 !J;,Im addox DE 6-4 
•n Gabbard OG 6-4 Khalid Aldama) DE 6-4 
Anthony ,askins c 6-1 ~>e Person OT 6-4 ~ •an Kearney OT 6-4 
DE 6-1

M~t~~~ c 6-0 
Matthew Pritchett OT 6-2 OJ Washin~lon WR 5-10 
WR 6-2

~~~i~~~· WI{ 6-1 Mick Yokitis WR 6-2 Matt Williams IB 5-11 Eric Shuex I' 5-10 
NG 6-2 

n11re~~~mer WR 5-11 
lason Tomlinson WR 6-1 
WR 6-4

~'Z~ ~~~~. WR 6-2 
atthew Harmon 5-10
w· 
6-2

~1g~~~mth K 6-Q Keithdackson NC 6-4 KKie n.>en NG 6-2 C ""Y. Hebert DE 6-1 Rick Amos NG (,.{) John Chan DE 6-1 Andrew Tattersall 6-4 David Wright 6-3
~§ 6-2

Larr,r8~
Rya son DE 6-1 R1cky Moon-NG 6-4 
Oct. 8 Oct. 15 Oct. 22 Oct. 29 Nov. 5 Nov. 12 Nov. 19 Dec.3 
AIR FORCE-W KENT STATE -W at Rice-W at Rutgers-L TULANE-W at Notre Dame TEMPLE vs. Army 
No. 
1 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 5 
6 
6 7 7 8 9 9 10 11 13 13 14 14 15 15 16 17 17 18 18 19 20 20 21 

MIDSHIPMEN RUSHING MIDSHIPMEN PASSING 
The Irish secondary is
The injury of defensive 
the least experienced of

end Chris Frome hasn't 
hurt the Irish rush defensA 
any unit on the team and 
is surrendering 291.6

too mueh as ends Justin 
yards per game through

Brown and Honald Talley 
the air this season.

have fillnd in nicely. Notre 
Cornerback Ambrose

Dame h<L'i held opponents 
Wooden and safety Tom

to 117.8 yards per game 
Zbikowski each made an

on the ground and 13 
interception against

rushing touehdowns this 
Tennessee last week.

SfliL'iOn. 
Navy is currently No. 2 
Navy has thrown 10 

nationa.lly in rushing offimse, 
interceptions in 2005, 

with 281.6 yards per game. 
compared to just four TDs. 

But no playnr on the n:Ser is 
Owens has completed 53.9 

avnraging over 100 yards per 
percent of his plL'ises while 

eontnst a'i Owens leads the 
averaging 117.9 yards per 

teum with a 73.1 yard aver­
game. Junior receiver 

agn. Six playnrs have tallied 
Jason Tomlinson leads 

ovnr l<Xl total ru'ihing yards 
Navy with 22 catches for 

thi'i SlllL'ion, as Navy ha'i 28 
418 yards and one score 

'Ills on the ground 
this season. 


Navy throws rarely but does average 19.2 yatds per reception. The Notre Dame secondary is not the best unit on the team, but Irish cornerbacks Mike Hichardson and Ambrose Wooden are improving. If the Irish avoid getting fooled by a play-action p1L'iS, they should be fine. 
21 
'22 
'22 
23 23 24 24 25 25 26 28 28 29 29 31

SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
31 31 32 33 33 34 35 
36
Zbikowski is currently Notre Dame is confident 

37 
38
third in the nation in punt 

after beating what was 
39 
39
z
returns with an average of supposed to be the second 

40
0 
41
19.7 yards per return. He 

toughest team on its 
41
-1 
42

schedule in last week's 41­had a 60-yard return for a 
::0 
42 
43
m
score against USC and 21 win over Tennessee. 

43 44
brought back a punt 78 The Irish offense is hot 

45 46 
c 
yards for a touchdown last 

and the squad needs to 
:J> 
47 
47
week against Tennessee. 

win the season's final 
3: 
48 
48
m
Fitzpatrick is 9-11 on field three games, two at home, 

49 49

goals for the season. for a possible BCS spot. 
50 50 51 51 52 52
Tomlinson has returned Navy will qualify for its 

53 
53
nine punts this year tor just 

third consecutive bowl 
54 54 55 56 
a 7 -yard average but Karl with one more win this 

Whittaker has excelled at season. The Midshipmen 
56 

57

returning kicks as he has 15 are disciplined and 
57 
58

returns for a 25.2 yard would love to stop Notre 
58 
59 

average. Kicker Joey Bullen Dame's 41-game win 
60 
61

hasn't missed an extra point streak over the 
62 
6.1

Academy, especially with 
64 65 
on 32 attempts this season 

while converting 7 -of-1 0 an upset of the No. 7 
66 
67

field goal tries. ranked Irish on the road. 
68 
69 
70 
71 
71 
72 
73
Zbikowski is a threat to Notre Dame is eager to 

73 74
score on every retur.v. 

return to its first BCS 
74 75
ButWhittaker is' also:: a 

bowl since 2001 and 

76 
77

key component of Navy's must beat Navy to have a 
77 
78
upset bid. A''"'""§pe~·tal 


I\. N , ' ef\?ugtl 
79 
80
teams touchdown. ce)uld 
81

~.i~. i!.e'h~i 
82
keep the Midshipmen in · 

't Ute ~ Iil!j 
83 
84
the· game. Fitzpatrick hit 

since Roger Staubach 
85 
86
the game-winner the last 

won the Heisman as 
86 
87

nm.e Nav)i·came'to south Navy's quarterback in 
88 
89
Bend. 
1963. 
90 91 91 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 99 
Wt. 
'227 
190 185 194 203 176 190 194 177 180 210 200 164 175 184 203 164 175 158 183 228 190 227 180 208 177 195 185 210 170 181 185 170 185 200 190 240 177 201 205 200 179 217 220 165 175 178 
170 
173 
180 
167 
175 
215 !94
16 
h~ 
168 229 178 230 216 187 172 200 203 210 
'228 
196 225 170 203 165 243 270 190 270 229 230 209 
240 
'224 
241 245 256 290 220 2.10 217 280 250 
'220 
240 
232 
219 
300 
275 290 249 268 2.'i3 246 281 259 268 267 258 255 
'220 
241 231 299 240 273 260 251 224 257 267 177 193 203 22.1 214 182 203 175 193 207 175 170 240 195 267 2.'i6 2.'i4 253 246 249 
261 
265 
230 
269 
YR 
SR 
so 
SR 
FR 
~) 
t\ FR 
~ 
so 
FR 
~~ 
FR 
FR 
FR 
FR 
so 
FR 
so 
tt FR 
FR 
FR 
FR 
SR 
FR 
1!8 
~~ 
t\ so 
~ 
~ 
FR SR FR 
so 
FR 
so 
~~ 
i\ FR 
~)
so 
FR 
~~ 
FR 
FR 
FR 
FR 
~~ 
FR 
FR 
FR 
so 
so 
I'R FR SR 
~~ ~~ 
SR 
FR 
FR 
so 
FR 
so 1!8 
FR 
FR 
j,~
so 
t~ 
so 
so 
SR 
so 
so 
Uk
m{ 
so 
rR 
FR 
so 
FR 
so 
FR 
rR 
IH{ 
~)
so 
SR 
SR 
SR 
SR 
FR 
SR 
Uh 
FR FR FR FR 
~)
so 
~)
FR 
Irish experts 


Mike Gllloon 
Sports Editor 
Navy would love to spoil Notre Dame's fun 
Considering everything Notre Dame has Saturday. But it's just not going to happen. Even accomplished thus far in Weis' first year at the if Jeff Samardzija shrinks by five inches before reins -and with a BCS bowl in their grasp-­kickoff, he'll still be taller than any of Navy's the Irish will have little trouble tacking on yet starting secondary. Brady Quinn won't need to another game to a historic 41-game unbeaten play long past halftime and the Irish will get the streak against Navy. After a couple slow first of three fmal wins they need if they plan on weeks, the Irish ground game rebounds, and having a shot at the BCS. Quinn continues to rack up stunning numbers.. 
Matt Puglisi FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 52 Associate FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 44 Navy 10 Sports Editor Navy 24 
. ..· .. ' . 

.. .' . ' ..
~' 

. . . . \ .· .. 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 11, 2005 
Sizing up the Irish and the Mids 
NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE 
vs
AVERAGE PER GAME NAVY'S DEFENSE 

total yards gained total yards allowed 
rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 


passing yards gained passing yards allowed 
kick return yards gained kick return yards allowed 


punt return yards gained punt return yards allowed 


yards per punt 
39-l 

punts blocked (total) 
turnovers lost (total) turnovers recovered (total) 
total points scored total points allowed Notre Dame yards penalized Tennessee yards penalized 



NAVY'S OFFENSE 
vs 

NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 


-~191 


NOTRE DAME 
RUN DEFENSE 
Trevor Laws, Victor Abiamiri, above, and Derek Landri anchor a defensive line that is giving up 118 yards per game on the ground. Last week against Tenn-essee, the Irish held the Vols to 109 yards on 39 rushes 
(2.8 yards per carry). Against Michigan on Sept. 3, the Irish limit­ed Wolve-rines running back Kevin Grady to 79 yards (Mike Hart was knocked out of the game). 
The key for the Irish will be stopping Navy's option. Navy will run, and run often, as the Midshipmen only throw for 127 yards per game. 

ECHO 
Information Night Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Monday, November 14, 7pm 
This guy has chosen to lead our Church ... As you can see, we could use your help now more than ever. 


NAVY 
RUSHING ATTACK 
Navy coach Paul Johnson is known for his ability to beat teams with the option, and his approach will be no dif­ferent against Notre Dame. The run-first Midshipmen average 283 rushing yards per game -second in the country behind Minn­esota (291). Last week against Tulane, Navy ran for 418 yards. 
Quarterback Lamar Owens leads Navy in rushing with 136 attempts for 719 yards and five touchdowns. Fullback Matt Hall has 98 carries for 485 and six touchdowns. In total, the Midshipmen aver­age 5.3 yards per carry. 

..... 
Friday, November II, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Irish defense has task of stopping option 

CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer Irish defensive tackle Derek Landrl walks off the field after Notre Dame's 41-21. victory of Tennessee. 
Notre Dame tackles Laws and Landri aim to silence Navy 
By MIKE GILLOON Spons Editor 
Despite a 5-3 record and close proximity t.o its third eonseeutive bowl appearance, Navy enters Saturday's game at Notre Dame as a 24-point underdog. 
While low outside expectations are due in part to Notre Dame's offensive sueeess (more than 

3X points per Laws game). they also account for Navy's lack of size along the offensive line. 
Navy's starting tackles. guards and eenter weigh an average of 270 pounds. Notre Dame's offensive line, on the other hand, is led by 311­pound right tackle Mark LeVoir and averages 295 pounds per player. 
The Irish defensive line averages 271 pounds. while the Midshipmen front three on defense average 260 pounds. And Navy coach Paul Johnson indicated that aver­age may overshadow even lower numbers. 
"Let me just tell you," Johnson said. "Our starting offensive guard [Antron Harper] weighs 232 pounds. I don't think that's a big secret." 
Harper is listed on the Navy 

athleties website as 249 Samardzija and Mauriee pounds, but Johnson made his Stovall are both 6-foot-5 and point -the Midshipmen are have combined for 93 rneep­significantly smaller than the tions and 1 X touchdowns this Irish. Notre Dame quarter­season. Meanwhile Navy's two back Brady starting cornm·­Quinn is listed baeks, (;n~g
"It's a new year, a
on the team's Thrasher and athleties Web new team. Last Keenan l.ittln. site at 231 year's last year, but arn 5-foot-S and pounds. only one 5-foot-11,
hopefully I can
pound lighter respectively. than llarper. repeat what I did ... "!The Irish! Whether its are solid,"
and be 
been about size Johnson said.
consistent." 
or not, Navy has "If you look at struggled in the their football past to maintain Derek Landrl team. they w•~n~ 
a solid rushing Irish defensive tackle probably all game against high school all-Notre Dame. Amnricans. The Midshi-pmen ran (Jl Tlwy didn't just go down to times for 216 yards in last Podunk lligh Sehool and takn season's 27-9 Irish win at The somebody that nobody was Meadowlands (N.J.), an aver­recruiting and all of a suddnn age of 3.5 yards eoaeh thnm per carry and up... below their 2004 Though Navy season average may be physi­
"They're very quick 
of 289.5 yards cally smaller, 
per game. and strong for their J 0 h 11 s 0 11 
Despite the size. I think both of believes his physical mis­squad will be
their major 
matches on the foeused against
attributes are their
offensive line. Notre Dame. lie Johnson looks at quickness and their said thn the game Midshipmen
ability to make a
against the Irish have been look­
place."
as an opportuni­ing forward to ty for his team. the matehup for "We just have Brian Beldatsch a while. to get ready and "That's why a
Irish defensive tackle 
go play," lot of these Johnson said. guys eame to "We probably school Iat wouldn't beat anybody if we Navy)." Johnson said. "They went off height and weight wanted to play Division I foot­and speed. !laving said that, ball. and this was the oppor­it's multiplied by 10 this tunity they had and they need week." to make the most of it." 
But the size differential is not just for the offensive line. ContactMike Gilloon at Notre Dame receivers Jeff mgilloon@nd.edu 
Navy attacks with small, quick 0-line 
Irish line outweighs opponent by 25 lbs 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
Notre Damn faeed one of the most prolific seoring ollimses in collegn football in its game against No. 1 Southern California on Oct. 15. But its most unique ehallenge this sea­son might come Saturday against Navy. 
Thn Midshipmen option offense has posml problems for opposing defnns1~s this season. Navy is No. 2 in the nation in rushing with 2X2.6 yards per game. But Notre Damn's rush ddnnse is only surrendering 
117.R yards pnr contest this season. 
Irish dnfensivn taeklns Derek l.andri and Trnvor Laws have helped the Irish hold opponents to :u~ yards per earry and 13 touchdowns on thll ground. 
l.andri has 25 total tackles in 2005, including a sack and five taekles for loss. Laws has 21 tackles on the season, high­lighted by a sack of USC quar­terback Matt Leinart in the fourth quarter of a 34-31 Irish loss to the Trojans. 
As anchors of the middle of the Notre Dame dnfnnsive line, tlw duo believes they will need thnir b1~st efforts to stop Navy and quarterb1u~k Lamar Owens and an option offense rarely seen anymore in college foot­dangerous in the passing game ball. [by] getlting] a sack," Beidatsch 
Backup Notre Dame defensive said. "They are just a headache tackle Brian Beidatsch. who for ofl'ensive linemen." rotates with Laws and Landri, Landri eertainly was a is confident in his teammates' headache for Navy during last 
ability to contain  season's win.  
the option.  He recorded six  
"They're defi­nitely two talented guys," Beidatsch said. "They're very  "We just have to get ready and go play. We probably  tackles, including one sack, and also scooped up a fumble reeovery  
quick and strong  wouldn't beat  while leading a  
for their size. I think both of their major attributes  anybody ifwe went offheight and  Notre defense sacked  Dame that Navy  
are their quick­ness and their  weight and speed."  quarterbaeks six times in a 27-9  
ability to make a play." The duo both  Paul Johnson Navy head coach  Irish win at The Meadowlands. Laws notched  

came to Notre Dame with lofty aeeolades out of high school. 
Landri was listed as the No. 1 lineman on the Parade All Ameriea team as well as being named the California state play­er of the year in 2001 as a line­man at Dn La Salle Iligh School. 
Laws went 142-5 in his wrestling career at Apple Valley High School in Minnesota and was ranked No. 1 in the nation at heavyweight. He was also named a first-team football aii­Ameriean by ESPN.com. 
Beidatsch thinks Laws' and Landri's athletic backgrounds will be key when facing the small and quick Navy offensive lineman. 
"They ean play the run but at the same time they can be very two tackles in the 
game last season, a matchup in which Navy crossed midfield only once dur­ing the first half. The Irish were able to hold star Navy running back Kyle Eckel to 102 yards on the ground. 
Still, this is a different season and Notre Dame says it is pre­pared for a hungry Navy squad that needs only one more win to clinch a bowl berth, as well as to snap a 41-game winless streak against the Irish. 
"It's a new year, a new team," Landri said. "Last year's last year. but hopefully I can repeat what I did ... and be eonsis­tent." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 


AP Midshipmen wide receiver Mlck Yokitls dives towards the football In a 31-21 loss to Rutgers on Oct. 29. 
.. 
.. .. .. 
. . ~ 
,· ,· ..... 

. . . .. . .. ' . 
~ 
page 8 Friday, November 11, 2005 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

.... en
GO DEEP MEDIUM EXTRA LARGE
Ill a
I II I I I 
:~ One Large PAN with JJl llf One Medium One Topping l1l :~ One Extra Large j:
Is ~·~1 $699 ~· •1 ~~ 
:~ t F T . ;g. I I~ t: :~ li li . ~: ....
•-a: ,. up o 1ve oppmgs :: :i -.,.,. wo oppmgs ,.,
1 1 1 
-

-.. ii S12gg !iii TwoMediu:~neTopping liil S12gg ~~
• :¥: ~! !i s12gg ~: :¥: i! Ill 
:~ ~: :! !l : ~ ~: -1
I~ ~ I' IiJ. ~ WIG£ ORIGINAL OR THIN CRUST I' Iii ~ LARGE ORIGINAL OR THIN CRUST II I \ IPiftl..l!RIIIJ Expires 11115/05. CDupon required. .;>· I I ~ iiiPI.a) Expires 11/15/05. CDupon required: ~ I I ~ I1VIliU!IIIj Expires 11/15/05. CDupon required: #/ 1
L-~~i!'.!!.'!!:':!!!!!'!..N~Y!d,!ill';!!."'.!!'t"!."'!".:!"!'~"!Od_llll~~-JL_"!_l~l~~'~':!!!!!'!..~'!!'l.!.~~!:!!'.£:'!,«!~~!~_!!~-J L-~~~!'.!!.'!!:'! ~...;~~~!lll.!'Z.ol.!!'f"'-"!"!"'.l'~"!Od_~_::_j 
-.. en 
-

•CD z..
GARLIC PARMESAN BREADSnCKS WINGS SALAD
..­
-

I Ill BUilD YOUR OWN 
EXTRAS One Topping 7.99 11.99 13.99
Ill wings breadsticks = 
u Additional Topping 1.00 1.50 1.75
.. 
D 
u 
BETTER TOPPINGS IIIII Ham Beef Green Peppers 
= 

u •
Pepperoni Anchovies -'a
1:1 
Spicy Italian Extra Cheese Banana Peppers
.:I 
Sausage Mushrooms Pineapple Ill

a 
Sausage

0 Onions Grilled Chicken z Bacon 
...
a Black Olives Fresh Sliced CD Tomatoes Tomatoes 










