
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's students return­ing from spring break this weekend had at least one good thing to look forward to -a new Student Center. 
The Student Center, which opened Sunday evening after months of anticipation, is the new home for more than a dozen offices at the college including the Shaheen Bookstore, First Source Bank, campus ministry and student 

Student Center opens to public 
SMC building contains more than a dozen offices, bookstore, convenience store and cafe 
government. 

Students and faculty toured the new building throughout Sunday evening and into Monday, asking questions of Student Activities Director George Hosenbush. 
Hosenbush coordinated the switch to the new building, an undertaking that spanned sev­eral months. 

Even Saint Mary's President Carol Mooney stopped by and poked her head into some of the conference rooms and offices. 
see CENTER/page 6 

Golden dome to shine even brighter 
By KATE ANTONACCI A'wciatc News Editor 
<hw spot on Notm Dame's earn­pus of'tnn shirws above all the rnst -the histork golden dome. which, starting Mareh 7, began tlw process of' being rngildnd lilr tlw tenth tirnn in sehool history. 
A seaiTolding systnm, whieh takes about throe wonks to eom­plde, is eurrnntly bdng installnd. Tlw n~gilding proenss eonsists of applying 3,500 squarn font of 2:{.'J-karat gold leaf. This proenss will begin allPr thP scall'olding is linishPd and OJH~n weat.lwr eomli­tions are optimal. said Dennis Brown, <Lo.;sodate din~etor of news and inlitrmation. 
Tlw n1gilding proeess is dono hy hand and the matPrial, whkh indudns night ounces of gold, ean only hP applind on dry days with­out wind. Brown said. 
According to a University pn~ss rPleast1, Conrad Sdunitt Studios of Nnw BPrlin. Wis. is handling tlw n~gilding, which will cost $:{()().()()(). 
"Morwy for the n1gilding is l'oming from tlw !{I'IH'ral fund. though a bentd'aetor is IHdng sought for tlw project," Brown said. 
Though tlw golden domn is part of NotrP I >anw history, some stu­dnnts think tlw prit~n is a hit 
sec DOME/page 4 


Disability a"W"areness month kicks off 
Coordinators hope events will increase understanding 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 
A musician with Down Syndrome and Irish head foot­ball eoach Charlie Weis might not seem to have much in com­mon, but in the coming weeks the two will highlight Notre Dame's Disability Awarennss Month. 
Disability Awareness Month is an extended vnrsion of the Disability Awarnness Weeks that have benn held on campus since 1997. Marissa Hunkle of the Logan Cenh~r has eoordi­nated most of tlw niTorts along with Kathleen Hoblez, eo-prns­ident of Best Buddies and the College Buddy Dirnetor. 
The lirst sehedulnd evnnt is a pnrformancn by Sujent Desai, a 23-year-old man who was born with Down Syndrome. lin will play the piano, elarinnt and violin in a eoneert hnld at 7 
p.m. tonight in Washington Hall. 
A graduate of tlw Bnrkshirn Music Academy, l>Psai has also earned a hlaek belt in Tat> Kwon l>o and won gold and sil­ver mndafs swimming in the Spnrial Olym pies World (;ames. 
"lie has rnally puslwd him­self to work so hard. I lis oldor brother, who do«-s not hav«' special rwnds. has snrvNI as a real inspiration to him." Hunk It~ said. "Tomorrow Ia l tlw ronenrtl tlwr«> will bP a lot of ehildrnn who havn Down Syndrome, and hn is OIH' ol' their idols." 
The ronenrt by Desai is toul­ml by the organiznrs as one of tho highlights of l>isabilitins Awarnrwss Month. 
see MONTH/page 4 
COR 

Senator proposes purchasing seniors' book-buying site 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
Nt·w~ Writ<'r 
Tlw Counril of HPprnsontal.ives l'orusPd its disrussion Monday on lhP IH'Pd [O \TPatP a 1110('(' afl'ord­ablf' way for NotrP lhtmn slu­dPnls to huy and sPII class tnxt­hooks. 
f.'islwr sPnator Sujal Pandya spoke to reprnsnntativns about l.hrnn possibln solutions to hnlp allnviatn thn l'inaneial burdnn LPxtbook prices pfaen on stu­dPnts. l'andya said collaborating wilh an onlirw book company or ITPating a nnw Wl'h sitn could solw tlw probh~rn. 
But Pandya bt>linvnd his third solution -a proposal that would rnquire student govnrnmtmt to purchase an already-establishml. studnnt-opnratnd book nxehangt~ Wnb sitn -was the most !'nasi­bin. 
"I hnlinvn tlw third solution is tlw orw wn rwnd to pursue. Studnnt govnrnmnnt would buy NI>Bay. Wn would buy the nanw idnntilil~ation, tlw 2,200 usnrs and l.IW SLH~eOSS ol' tlw program," Pandya said. 

According to Pandya. tho NDBay wnbsitn is currently run hy two snniors living ofl'-eantpus, and tho ownnrs aro not surn ypt if' tlwy will continun running tlw sitP al'tPr graduation. 
Hnpr·pspntatives q1wstiorwd Pandya about thn I'Pasibility of' thn projne.t and tlw amount of' nl'fort rnquin~d to maintain lhn Wnb sitn. 
"I want. to know thn typn of' invnstnwnt is rwndml on our part -likP tinw and ptHlpln, do wn haw thn manpownr'! What il' l.lw syslnm crashns'!" Stud«>nl ~Jnion Board nHtrHtg«>r .Jimmy l;laiH'rly askNf. 
Pandya assurNI n•prPs«>nt.a­tivns that tlw Pll'ort rPquirPd to 
see NDI\AY/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, March 15, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Psyched for St. Pat's 
I love St. Patrick's Day. I might even go as far to say it's my favorite holiday after Christmas. 
There's just something about the cheery shamrocks and traditions that makes St. Patrick's Day Ann Loughery something I look forward to each 
Sports
year. 
Production
Unlike other hol­
Editor
idays, St. Patrick's Day offers people the opportunity to celebrate the characteristics that epitomize the Irish spirit -a sense of pride, camaraderie and love of life. 
March 1 is the official start to St. Patrick's Day in our home. That's the day my mom unwraps the lep­rechaun window stickers and the shamrock cookie cutters. 
Decorating for St. Patrick's Day with my family has sort of become an official event in our house. My mom and I pull out the cookie sheets and bread pans to make shamrock sugar cookies and my grandma's famous Irish soda bread. 
My dad carefully selects decorat­ing music -usually the Dubliners -and teams up with my brothers and sister to hang shamrock garland and an Irish nag outside our door. Everyone has found their own way to add something to the celebration. 
And when all the work is done, our house shines. 
When I was in high school, I loved pulling up on the driveway and see­ing the cute leprechaun and sham­rock cutouts in our window. I remembered how my we stood on tiptoes putting up the shamrocks in the top window and how, when we were finished, we stood back and admired our work. 
Those decorations also helped brighten up our yard on a gloomy, snowy day and reminded me that spring and St. Patrick's Day were on their way. 
Looking down the block this year during spring break, I couldn't help but smile as I glanced out the car window to see my neighbors deco­rating their homes for St. Patrick's Day and heard my friends' plans for the holiday. 
Whether Irish or not, nearly everyone has found his or her own way to celebrate St. Patrick's Day. Some choose to serve corned beef and cabbage with Green River. 
Others opt to make the trek to a local Irish pub and, among other things, enjoy the fun-loving Irish bands that frequent the restaurants. Taking a break from their fast­paced lives, people have the chance to catch up with friends and share stories. 
Regardless, the holiday has become more of a reason to antici­pate and celebrate in the midst of dreary winter days. 
So for whatever reason and in whatever way you choose to cele­brate St. Patrick's Day, have a great time -I know I will. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd. edu 
CORRECTION 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: How DOES IT FEEL TO BE BACK ON CAMPUS? 

Allison Willems  Andy MacKrell  Matt Barcus  Ted Lawless  Mary Dubon  Kat Roblez  
junior Lyons  freshman Dillon  freshman Dillon  sophomore Knott  junior Welsh Family  junior Breen Phillips  
"Awesome, because it's  "It's nice to be back with my  "It's great to be back. I get to  "It feels great! I was away from  "Great, I found this balloon. ,  "[Bad]; I spent the last week in  





the Bahamas and I miss it." 
IN BRIEF 

Bryan Boyer will be giving the lecture "Orthopedic Trauma" in the Mini-Medical School Lecture series from 7 p.m. to 9 tonight in 102 DeBartolo Hall. To register or for more informa­tion, call Judy at 574-631-5574. The lecture is presented by the South Bend Center for Medical Education. 
Sujeet Desai, an accom­plished musician who was born with Down Syndrome, will play the clarinet, piano and violin from 7 p.m. to 8:15 tonight in Washington Hall. Admission is free. The event is part of Disability Awareness Month. 
Bei Dao, an exiled Chinese poet and human rights activist, will give a poetry reading from 
4:30 p.m. to 6 Wednesday in the Eck Visitors' Center. A reception will follow. The event is sponsored by the Creative Writing Program. 
The Notre Dame Schola Musicorum will perform a con­cert entitled "Abend-Musique XXIV" from 8 p.m. to 9:45 Wednesday in Reyes Organ and Choral Hall, located in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The concert is free but tickets are required. Please call the DeBartolo box office at 574-631-2800. 
Bishop Gregorio Chavez, aux­iliary bishop of San Salvador, will give a Romero keynote lec­ture entitled "Archbishop Romero: A Bishop for the New Millennium" from 8 p.m. to 
9:15 Wednesday in the McKenna Hall auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

38 28 


HIGH LOW 

disability cuddle spoon with this the dining hall awareness buddies." guy. for way too month." long." 
Wyoming may ban facial pierclngs in eateries 
CHEYENNE, Wyo.-As if the hair in your salad wasn't bad enough, a city health inspector said there had been "several cases" of tongue rings and other facial jewelry found in the food in the city's restaurants. 
It was enough to persuade the Governor's Food Safety Council to recommend ban­ning facial jewelry for restau­rant workers who prepare food-perhaps becoming the first state in the country to do so. 
But despite his testimony, when contacted by The Associated Press, Jon Cecil of Cheyenne Health Department couldn't cite a single docu­mented case of facial jewelry falling into a restaurant dish. 
That's not what he said in a Jan. 25 hearing before the Food Safety Council. 
"We've had several cases of old ladies finding tongue rings and rings and whatnot in their food," Cecil testified. "We actually had a lady at one of our finer restaurants in town and ... she found a tongue ring." 
'Wedgie' added to Webster's dictionary 
CLEVELAND -Wedgie, a teenager's locker-room night­mare, has made it into the dictionary. Webster's New World College Dictionary based in Cleveland said wedgie was among its new additions to its latest edition. 
The new edition will carry this listing: wedgie: noun. a prank in which the victim's undershorts are jerked upward so as to become wedged between the but­tocks. 
The dictionary also carries the tradition wedgie definition of a type of shoe. 
'"Wedgie' was always a part of the high school termi­nology that you sort of never thought about later," said Editor in Chief Michael Agnes. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::1: 
!ci: 
LLI 
~ 
..... 
c( (,) 



38 
27 

40 35 
0 

HIGH 36 HIGH 22
.... 

LOW 24 LOW 18 

Atlanta 55 I 44 Boston 43 I 30 Chicago 40 I 29 Denver 35 I 16 Houston 661 52 Los Angeles 69 I 52 Minneapolis 34 I 28 New York 46 I 32 Philadelphia 46 I 30 Phoenix 68 I 45 Seattle 56 I 40 St. Louis 42 I 31 Tampa 80 I 66 Washington 47 I 34 
Tuesday, March 15, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Proposed election changes debated 
By MADDIE HANNA 
A~sociatc News Editor 
The Campus Life Council dis­cussed both tho dillkulty in syn­chronizing hall election dates and the possibility of creating a new task force to combat violence against worn!m at Monday's monting. 
A rnsolution mgarding election dnadline compliance was pre­snntnd, which n~questfld greater assistance from the Office of Student Affairs and residence hall rm:tors in onsuring a smooth transition bntween student gov­11rmmmt administrations. 
Th1~ resolution also strossed the nnenssity of increased communi­cation between the Judicial Council and each hall staff n~garding thn nlnetion dates. 
Aftnr Council members rnviewml the resolution, voting was postpom~d due to concerns surrounding next year's still­undnterminnd election dates. 
"I would rather have a date by whkh thny lthn nlnetionsl need to lw donn, and the later, the bet­ter," said Dillon rnetor Father Paul l>oyln. I>oyln expressed con­mrns that tho proposed March 1 elnction date would prevent those rising seniors who apply li1r, hut do not receive, resident assistant positions from partiei­pating in hall nlections. 
"I don't see any compelling rnason to do it !hold elections! at tlw same time in every dorm," Doyle said. ''I'm not asking you to push thn date after spring break -Ijust want a chance to engagn thn upper dass." 
.ludidal Coundl president Brin Anderson and student body pres­ident-elect Dave Baron said the March 1 date had been proposed because it would allow for a longer transition period. 
"March 1 was selected so sena­tors can go to meetings and other transition m(~etings," Baron said, noting these other meetings will be set up in the near future with the ()flice of Student Activities. 
Cavanaugh rector Sister Pat Dearbaugh agreed with Doyle, saying she did not see the point of synchronizing the election dates. 
"March 1 is way too early to do all this, when we have HA deci­sions to make, and to expect peo­ple to take over that early," Dfmrbaugh said. 
Cavanaugh senator Jordan Bongiovanni said increasing sen­ior involvement in hall govern­ment, a concern of several Council membnrs who mentioned the growing trend toward younger hall presidents, should be separatfld from the election date issue. 
"I think we're trying to solve two different problems here," Bongiovanni said. "I think it's student governmont's job as a whole to encourage older loader­ship, if they see lit." 
I loward rector Kathy Brannock said another complieation with the early election dates was the study abroad notification date. 
"I would hate to have a student elceted president get accepted to London and then withdraw as president," Brannock said. 
Baron aeknowledged the prob­lem and offered the possibility of talking to International Studies to see if they could push forward notilication dates next year. 
With the vending task force's objective of sending a resolution to Vice President of Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman completed, Bongiovanni asked if a new task force should be creat­ed in its place. 
In response, Baron proposed added attention to the problem of violence against women, saying, "This may be something to take up in another task force, or social concerns. This is something we need to look into." 
Baron said he felt male involve­ment in preventing rape needed to increase and brought up Men Against Hape, an organization he thinks could benefit the effort. 
"Some of the efforts aren't tai­lored towards men," Baron said. "That's something next year Lizzi [Shappell! and I are going to be working on." 
Student body vice president Karla Bell said that while the Gender Hesource Center was designed for men and women, the male programs are not as effe<:tive. 
"A huge problem is that they can't get enough male involve­ment to make a diflerence, even for programs geared towards men," Bell said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
BOG 

SAGA asks board for formal recognition 
By KELLY BALE News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance discussed recogniz­ing the Straight and Gay Alliance (SAGA) during their first official meeting in the new student center Monday. 
Megan Schaeffer, president and founder of SAGA at Saint Mary's, spoke in front of BOG to ask for recognition of the alliance as an official dub at the College. 
"There arc a lot of Catholic schools that support gay and straight alliances, and I really feel that Saint Mary's needs to be one of them," Schaeffer said. 
Schaeffer said that she first recognized a need for an organ­ization such as SAGA on eam­pus after students came to her looking for someone to talk to. 
Schaeffer described SAGA as a group of 25 to 30 straight, les­bian and bisexual studenL'i who meet weekly to discuss various issues in education and aware­ness, support and soda! activi­ties. 
"I really want to stress that this is SOmflthing that is alf!~ct­ing our entire community," Schaeffer said. "I think the sup­port group will be tho one that has the biggest irnpaet on this campus and affects the most people." 
Schaeffer said that SAGA w~L'i asking to be recognized as a club primarily to receive fund­ing to be able to bring in speak­ers and show moviHs, but also to be able to advertise and use campus fadlities. 
BOG members held an exten­sive discussion on the status of the group and ultimately voted to tablo their decision to next wook's meeting. Student body president Sarah Catherine White said that members felt they needed to seek a more informed perspectivo in order to make a decLo;;ion. 
"We understand that our deci­sion with this dub, ~L'i with every dub, is to rnview how this dub supporL<> our mission and rnpre­senl'i our student<;," Whit1~ said. 
BOG members rm:o!,rniznd the benefil'i SAGA eould bring to the inclusiveness, support and edu­cation of the student body hut also discussed concerns that eould grow among alumnae, prospnctivn studnnts and the overall reputation of Saint Mary's as an all women's Catholic eollegn. 
"By researching and taking time to docido, we're not lntting limr got in th!~ way," White said. "Our primary lheus is not what the rnaetion will bo, but what. those we reprnsnnt bnlinvo in." 
Contact Kelly Bale at kbaleO I @saintmarys.edu 

The O'Grady Asia Lecture Series 2005 
Presents 


John Kamm, Executive Director Dui Hua Foundation 
"Civil Rights, Human Rights: The Struggle for Justice in the United States and China" 
Tuesday, March 15 at 5:00 p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business University of Notre Dame 
*********************************************************** 

A workshop and discussion with John Kamm (Dui Hua Founder and Executive Director) & Irene Chan Kamm, (Manager of Administration and Development)
• 

"Dui Hua: The Strategy and Technique of Human Rights Work in China" 
Wednesday, March 16, 2005 at 2:00p.m. Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium Notre Dame Avenue University of Notre Dame 
Reception to follow Hesburgh Center, Great Hall 
http:/ jwww.duihua.org The public is invited to attend both events. 631-8873 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 15, 2005 


NDBay 
continued from page 1 
run the Web site would be min­imal. 
"The current owners told me they spend one to two hours per week facilitating the site. It will require minimum support. We already have the capacity to run it," Pandya said. 
After other members ques­tioned the cost of the Web site and the need for continuous advertising, chief executive assis­tant and student body president­elect Dave Baron acknowledged that purchasing NDBay might not be the most efficient measure to take. Instead, Baron said stu­dent clubs could take on the task. 
"We've looked into the issue a great deal. But the cost to buy it seems too much. The Entrepreneurial Club has expressed interest in creating a new Web site. That, to me, seems like a better option," Baron said. 
Student body president Adam Istvan then closed the meeting to the press to discuss the actual price of purchasing the site. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
Month 
continued from page 1 

"Sujeet's performance will be really cool because instead of just having a speaker about disabilities, we will actually have someone with disabilities doing a performance them­selves," Roblez said. 
The upcoming weeks will feature other events centered on the issue of disability awareness. On March 19, the Logan Center will host a Best Buddies Friendship Games carnival from 12 p.m. to 2. 
"We will have about 150 people here for a small carni­val. Half will be people with disabilities such as Down Syndrome, mental retarda­tion, or autism, while the other half will be Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who are in Best Buddies," Runkle said. "The event is open to all students though as a service opportunity." 
On March 21, Weis, whose daughter has been affected by developmental disorders, will speak about the value of peo­ple with disabilities. The lee­ture will be held at 9 p.m. in Disabilities Awareness 102 DeBartolo Hall. Month is sponsored by the 
There will be a discussion Logan Center and the Best for Notre Dame and Saint Buddies Club of Notre Dame Mary's students with disabili­and Saint Mary's, as well as 
ties rang- the Center for  
ing from physical to learn­ "[We want] to emphasize the fact that people with  Social Concerns, the Special  
ing  in  disabilities have a lot to  Friends Club,  
Legends on March 29 at 8  contribute to society and are active members  SuperSibs, the Office for Students with  
p.m. 0  n  in our society. "  Disabilities, the Senior  
March 30, a Theology  Marissa Runkle Logan Center  Class Council and the Edna K. Miller  

on Tap discussion focusing on legal mercy killings of people with disabilities will be held at 10 
p.m. at Legends. David Solomon, philosophy profes­sor and director of Notre Dame's Center for Ethics and Culture, will lead the discus­sion. 
"The reason we are doing Disabilities Awareness Month is to educate students about disabilities issues and to emphasize the fact that peo­ple with disabilities have a lot to contribute to society and are active members in our society," Runkle said. 
Foundation. 
"We definitely want every­one to come to all of the events," Roblez said. "The carnival is going to be fun, and it would be a great time for students who have not had contact with people with dis­abilities to come here and play games with them in a laid back atmosphere. It's a great opportunity for people who are interested to come and see what it's like to inter­act with people who have dis­abilities." 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 

DoIDe 
continued from page 1 
excessive. 

"I think it's a wonderful idea, but I think there are better places the school could use the money," said sophomore Sarah Micelli. 
The last regilding took place in 1988, and, contrary to what some may believe, the dome is not required to be regilded after a certain number of years. 
"It's not automatic," Brown said. "An evaluation was made by the University architect and oth­ers in his office, just as they do with other buildings on campus." 
Because regilding is a very deli­cate process and will take place over the next few months and into the summer, the dome will not be its golden self for graduation, which may be distressing to some. 
''I'm sure some students will be disappointed, but because the regilding process is dependent upon calm weather conditions, the scaffolding needs to go up now so that the work can begin as soon as weather permits," Brown said. 
However, with the amount of attention the dome receives, the University believes it is important to keep it in good shape. 

"The number-one tourist attrac­tion in Indiana provides exposure that is cheap at any price," said sophomore Preston Carter. 
Brown said that Notre Dame also plans to make additional repairs to the outside of the Main Building and to paint parts of the drum on which the dome stands while the scaffolding is taking place. 
The dome, which was added to the Main Building in 1882, caused much controversy because administrators thought the gold gilding would be extravagant and suggested that yellow be used instead, Brown said. However, Notre Dame founder Father Edward Sorin insisted that the dome be painted gold and, after topping it with a 16-foot-tall stat­ue of Mary, succeeded. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 






Law& • • • 
An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series 
March 16, 2005 4:00p.m. Law School Courtroom 
Tocqueville as Critical R~ce Theorist 
Presenter Alvin Tillery 

Department ofPolitical Science 
Commentator 
Jay Tidmarsh 


The Law School 




ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, March 15, 2005 CoMPILED FROM TI-·-IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Inmates surrender after jailbreak 
MANILA, Philippines-Muslim-P.xtremist inmates aeeusnd of committing some of the Philippines' worst terrorist attacks agreed to surrender Monday after a botehed jailbroak loft. livo peoplo doad, induding thrne guards, but the deal broke down when thn inmatos denmndml food, authoritil~s said. 
l·:arly Tunsday, authorities threatened to storm tlw prison unless the inmates quiekly SIIJTnndnr. 
"We have diredPd thn ground commander to mak«~ the announem1wnt that we are giv­ing thom 15 minutes to surrender their liroarms or we will tako tho option of arrest­ing the porpntrators of tho crime," Interior S«H:rntary Angelo Heyns told reportnrs. 
Crack troops, many of them U.S.-trainnd. and SWAT teams backed by two armored pnrsonrwl carriers surrounded tho maxi­mtrrn-sneurity facility at Manila's Camp Bagong IJiwa. 
Chechen leader's house blown up 
HOSTOV-ON-IJON. Hussia-Hussian authori­tios said Monday they blew up the house where Clwdwn rnlml leader ;\sian Maskhadov was killnd last wonk becauso thoy feared booby traps, but critks qunstiorwd tho motive. 
CoJ.-(;nn. ;\rkady Yeddev, chief of the foderal lwadquartnrs for the campaign in Chechnya, said demolition experts inspecting tho bunker had diseowrnd and dntonatnd a box that con­tairwd d01:umenLs and was ridden with explo­sives. 
"Tiw team of investigators dm:ided to blow up tlw PntirP house to avoid such surprises in the future." Yt>dnlev said in a statement. 
HighLs activisLs and govornment critics, how­«wer. sugg«~stod the blast eould have been nwant as punishmont for tlw family. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Mistrial ruled after court shootings 
;\TI.ANT;\ -Prosecutors on Monday dropJHHl a weapons charge against a man aeeusnd of' opening fire in an Atlanta court­house, and a mistrial was declared in thP. suspect's rape case as oiTkials continued sorting out eharges in the slayings of a judge and three others. 
Tho suspected gunman. Brian Niehols, eould appPar in court as early as Tuesday, authorities said. lie was arrestnd Saturday morning aftnr a rampage that began when he overpownrnd a sherift"s deputy who was nscorting him to his rape trial. 
Nichols, 33, had been in federal custody sineo his arrest on a federal firearms !'.harge. 

Clinton back at home after surgery 
NI~W YOHK -Former President Clinton loft the hospital Monday. four days after undergoing surgery to remove sear tissue and fluid around his loft lung. 
''I'm glad to be homn and look forward to w~tling hack to work within the next month or so," Clinton said in a statement issued by his spokesman. Jim KPnnedy. 
Snn. llillary Hodham Clinton aeeornpanied her· husband from the hospital to their honw, wlwr«~ tho 42nd pr·esidont was to 1:ontirnw his n~eovnry. ;\ rnotoreado of five or six SUVs was s1wn loaving New York­l'rnsbyterian llospitai/Columbia University Mndieal CPntnr shortly aftnr 5 p.m. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Group sues over medical records 
INJ>I;\N;\I'OLIS -Plamwd Paronthood of Indiana is suing Attorney (;erwral Stnve Carter to stop his oflicn from snizing thn medical rPrords of 73 low-inwme Mndil:aid patients who haw sought reproductive snrviees. 
Nono ol' tlw rneords involves abortions. 
··nw Attorrwy (;!moral's ollke, in a Idler pre­sented at thnw l'lannml l'aronthood hnalth !'.lllltnrs earlinr this month, stated that its Medicaid Fraud Control llnit was investigating an ineident report or complaint alleging patient abusn or neglect. 
LEBANON 


Thousands tnarch against Syrian troops 
Protest is largest since the assassination offormer prime minister one month ago 
Associated Press 
BEIBUT-Hundreds of thousands of demonstrators chanted "Freedom, sover­eignty, independence," and waved a sea of' Lebanese !lags in Beirut on Monday, the biggest anti-Syrian protest yet in the opposi­tion's duel of street rallies with supportors of the Damascus-backed govern­ment. 
Crowds of Druse, Christians and Sunni Muslims llooded Martyrs' Square and spilled over into nearby streets -respond­ing "to an opposition call to turn out for the n~moval of Syrian troops from Lebanon. 
"We are coming to liber­ate our country. We are coming to demand the truth," said Fatma Tract, a veiled Sunni Muslim woman who traveled from the remote region of Dinniyeh in northern Lebanon to take part. 
The assassination of for­mer Prime Minister Halik llariri exactly one month ago sparked the series of protests against Syria, thP. dominant power in Lebanon. 
The throngs fell silent at 
12:55 p.m.-the exact time llariri was killed four weeks ago by a huge bomb in Beirut. The silence was bro­kP.n only by church bells tolling and the flutter of flags. 
Later, thousands of red and white balloons were released abovP. the teeming crowd, many of whom wore scarves in the same colors that have come to symbolize the country's anti-Syrian movement in what the U.S. State Department has dubbed thP. "Cedar Hevolution." Brass bands playing patriotic and national folk songs and Lebanon's national anthP.m were regularly drowned out by deafening chants from the crowd. 
Monday's protest easily surpassed a pro-govern­ment rally of hundreds of 


AP 
Lebanese opposition demonstrators wave flags during a celebration March 1. Protests against Syrian troops Monday were the largest the country has seen since the assassination of the former Lebanese prime minister one month ago. 
thousands of people last week by the Shiite Muslim militant group llezbollah. That show of strength forced the opposition to try to regain its momentum. 
While there were ·no olli­eial estimates of the size of the crowd, police officers privately estimated it at about 1 million people. The offieers refused to speak publidy beeause it was an opposition rally. An Associated Press estimate by reporters on thP. scene put the number at much higher than the approxi­mately 500,000 who attend­ed thfl March 8 pro-Syrian rally. 
Syria's military withdraw­al continued Monday, with intelligence agents closing two of'fices in the northern towns of Amyoun and Deir Ammar, on the coastal road between the port of Tripoli and the Syrian bordP.r. lntelligencP. agents also dis­mantled two checkpoints in the Akkar area. ;\bout 50 intelligP.nce agents in all departed for unknown des­tinations, although it was believed to be northern Syria. 

Most intelligence ofliees, the widely resP.nted arm through which Syria has controlled many aspects of Lebanese life, rP.mainod in northern and central Lebanon after Syrian troops moved east, eloser to the Syrian border. Last week, intelligence officers left the central towns of ;\loy and Bhamdoun and headed to Syrian-controlled areas of eastern Lebanon. The rnde­ployment is tlw first stage of what Damascus says will bo a full withdrawal, although it has not given a timetabln. 
The opposition is demanding a full Syrian withdrawal. thn resigna­tions of Lebanese security ehiefs and an international investigation into llariri's Feb. 14 assassination. 
Many were also partil:u­larly ofl'nnded by pro-Syrian President l~milt~ Lahoud's reinstatement last week of Prime Minister Omar Karami, who was forced to resign on Feb. 28 by a giant opposition protnst. 
"Thoy are ehallenging us, and we are hen~ to show them that we will not accept," said bankor Farid Samaha. 
Judge rules in favor of gay marriage 
Associated Press 

SAN FHANCISCO -To gay mar­riage supporters, it is a historic devnlopment akin to a 1948 state Supremo Court deeision that mado California the first state to legalize interradalmarriage. 
To gay marriage opponents, it is an appalling abuse of judieial power that ovorturnod a long-held tradition that marriage is a union between a man and a woman. 
Setting tlw stago for a drawn-out legal battle between the two sides, San Frandsen County Superior Court .Judge Hichard Kramer overturned California's ban on gay marriage 
Monday and said that withholding marriage licenses from same-sex couples trespasses on their civil rights. 
If it is upheld on appeal, the ruling will open the way for tho nation's most populous state to follow Massachusetts in allowing same-sex eouples to wP.d. 
In his ruling, Kramer likP.ned the ban to laws requiring raeial segrega­tion in schools, and said there appnars to be "no rational purposo" for denying marriage to gay couples. 
"The state's protraeted denial of 11qual protection cannot bn justified simply because such constitutional violation has become traditional," 
Kramer wrot11. 
Tlw ruling came in responsn to lawsuits filed by thP 1:ity of San Franeisco and a doznn gay eouplns a year ago after thn California Supreme Court. halted a four-wonk samn-sex marriage spree startnd by Mayor Cavin Nnwsom. 
The opinion had been eagerly awaited because of San Franeiseo's historical role as a gay rights battle­ground. 
"Today's ruling is an important step toward a morn fair and just California that rejncts discrimination and aff'irms family valuns for all California families," San Franeiseo City Attorney Donnis 1Ierr11ra said. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, March 15, 2005 

Center 
continued from page 1 

"It's absolutely beautiful. think it will attract more stu­dents to Saint Mary's," said jun­ior Michelle Fitzgerald. "It gives it more of a college feel." 
Construction on the Student Center, which has three floors and adjoins the dining hall, began in early 2004. Work on the interior of the building was almost completely finished last month. Students will now enter the dining hall through the main entrance of the Student Center. 
Various campus groups had been packing for weeks to pre­pare for their new offices and were allowed to access them during spring break. 
Director of Multicultural 

Affairs Terri "It's absolutely Fean welcomed 
Johnson said one beautiful. I think it visitors Monday of the best parts afternoon to the
will attract more
of moving into the campus ministry building was office with a flier
students to Saint 
watching stu­Mary's. It gives it detailing office dents' faces as hours. Campus
more ofa college
they took it all in ministry will con­
feel."
for the first time. tinue to operate 
"When you largely out of walk in you can Michelle Fitzgerald . Regina Hall, Fean feel the spirit of junior said, but their 
everyone togeth­er. And I think that is why we have this," said Johnson. "I feel the community here." 
However, the transition to the new building is far from over. Staff members continue to wheel in carts laden with boxes, and many have yet to be given their own set of keys. A cyber cafe is still under construction. 
The cornerstone of the Student Center, the bookstore and the new convenience store, will not open until Wednesday. 
Assistant bookstore manager Bob Dezenzo said the delay was necessary to ensure the book­store would be ready for busi­ness and that he was "ecstatic" about the change in locations. 
"We like the new digs. It is just gorgeous. It gives us a touch of class," Dezenzo said. "We can't wait for the students to come in for the first time." 
The new bookstore is twice as big as the old one and Dezenzo said students should expect double the merchandise. Tables were already filled Monday with new Saint Mary's items such as T-shirts, hats and 

Nelly visit devoid of protests 
Associated Press JONESBORO, Ark. -Nelly drew nearly 6,300 fans to his weekend concert at Arkansas State University despite well-publicized calls for a boycott by area minis­ters. Officials said no protesters were in evidence as Nelly took the stage Saturday at the Convocation Center. A group of 20 Jonesboro ministers had complained that Nelly's songs refer to drugs, sex and violence and called on people to tear up their tickets. During a March 1 rally, the Rev. Adrian Hodgers of the Fullness of Joy Church said, "Jonesboro is a wonderful city because of what does not come here." Nelly's concert at the northeast­em Arkansas school was part of a nationwide tour. 
champagne glasses. 
"We really want students to give their input. This is their store," Dezenzo said. "We are just the keepers of the gate." 
Hours for the store have been extended to Monday through Friday 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekend hours have not yet been established. 
The convenience store will offer an expanded range of products previously sold at the bookstore such as toiletries and food products. It will be open Monday through Friday, 7 a.m. to midnight. 
While Dezenzo said the move has been trying at times, he knows the outcome will be ter­rific. 
"The staff has worked extremely hard. I'm very proud of them and the work that they have done," he said. 
Director of cam­
pus ministry Judy 
office in the 

Student Center will allow them a prime loca­tion to reach out to students. 
Assistant director of Student Activities Stacy Eckstein praised Building Services for helping her and her colleague with the move and said she is looking forward to the function­al qualities of the building. 
"We are better able to sup­port students than before," Eckstein said. 
Numerous visitors comment­ed on the brightness of the new Center and its central location on campus. 
"I just think it is cool to have someplace to hang out beside the library, which is not fun," said sophomore Audra Maxbauer. 
Touring the Student Center Monday afternoon, junior Jenny Robbins said she was impressed with what the College had done. 
"We're so lucky to have this building that we have waited so long for and we have worked so hard for," Robbins said. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0709@saintmarys.edu 
Calls tell horror of church slayings 
Associated Press 
BROOKFIELD, Wis. -Victims of a gunman's rampage at a church service used their cell phones to frantically call for help and describe the carnage that took the lives of seven wor­shippers, according to 911 tapes released Monday. 
The wounded screamed, sur­vivors cried and many invoked the Lord's name. 
"He was putting in another magazine when I ran out the door," said one man, who fled the Sheraton hotel, the site of the service in this Milwaukee suburb, to a nearby Sears department store. "He was get­ting ready to open fire again." 
"One, two, three, four, five," said one woman, counting the wounded lying on the bloody floor. 
Another woman called when it was all over: "Oh, my God. Oh my, one of my friends is laying on the floor. I think she's dead. Oh, this is awful." 
Churchgoers knew the killer, who fired 21 bullets on the con­gregation before shooting him­self in the head. One even named him. 
"Terry Hatzmann. He's one of the members. He's dead. He shot himself," the caller said. 

In the end, seven were killed, four were injured and th~ gun­man was slumped against a wall. 
Police said Ratzmann, 44, had attended services of the Uving Church of God for many years. On Saturday -the day the congregation celebrates the Sabbath -people saw him before the service with his briefcase, saw him leave, then saw him again about 20 min­utes after the service began, when he strode into the back of the room and opened fire. 

Notre Dame Disability Awareness Month March 2005 ruesday, 3/15 Sujeet Desai will be playing the violin, clarinet and piano. He graduated from the Berkshire Music Academy and was born with Down syndrome. ?p.m. Washington Hall, Free Admission Saturday, 3/19 Come to the Best Buddies Friendship Games and interact with children and adults with special needs. 12 noon-2p.m. Logan Center Gym Monday, 3/21 Head Football Coach Charlie Weis, 9p.m. DeBartolo 102 Coach Weis will be speaking about disability awareness. Tuesday, 3/29 Students with Disabilities Discussion, 8p.m. Legends www. nd .edu/-bbuddies  


2005 Arts & Letters Majors and Program Fair 

Wednesday, March 16, 2005 4:30-6:00pm Library Concourse 


Advisors from most Majors, Minors and Area Studies Programs will be available to provide information and answer questions for all students. 

THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Tuesday, March 15, 2005 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

10,804.51 +30.15
}ones 
Up: Some: Down: Composite Volume: 1,735 141 .. 1,269,219,968 
AMfX I ,482.59 -(U50 NASDAQ 2,051.04 +9.44 NYSE 7,353.84 +23.41 s&PSOO I ,206.82 +6.74 NIKKEI(Tokyo) II ,850.25 -73.64 fTSf IOO(London) 4,975.00 -7.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) +0.30 +0.11 37.28 SIRIUS SATELITTE R (SIRI) -0.71 -0.038 5.322 INTEL CP (INTC) +0.25 +0.06 24.26 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 0.00 0.00 25.09 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +0.38 +0.07 18.52 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.58 -0.28 47.81 I 0-YEAR NOTE -0.42 -0.19 45.16 5-YEARNOTE -0.36 -0.15 41.99 3-MONTH BILL +0.74 +0.20 27.12 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.5 3 55.65 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -5.20 441.60 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.20 70.58 
Excha Rates 

YEN I04.8900 EURO 0.7478 POUND 0.5225 CANADIAN$ 1.2061 
IN BRIEF 

FERC rules Enron contracts invalid 
SI·:t\TTI.I·: -(;owrnmnnt rngulators handed a major victory to wnstnrn utilities and eit.ins trying to g('l out of nxorbitant contracts tlwy ntadP with disgracPd nnnrgy giant Enron Corp. during tlw power tTisis of 2000-0 I. 
In a six-pagn ordnr issLwd Friday nvnning, liH• l'ndPral l·:nPrgy Hngulatory Commission dntPrminnd that I·:nron was nngaging in illngal activity at tlw tinw it nntNed in thn contracts. It was JltP lirst limP tlw t:ommission aeknowl­Pdgnd that thf' contracts worn signnd urrdnr fraud ulf' n t prPlnnsns. 
Tlw rngulatory agnnr.y $aid a hearing should lw Judd to dntnrminn wlwthnr 1-:nron ean col­lnrt profits it would havn rncnivnd had those contracts hnPn fullii!Pd. Tlw hearing is expnct­Pd in May, follownd by l'lmC's linal dneision latl' this ynar. 
Ul.ilit.iPs and dtins nndnd tlwir contracts with l·:nron or watdwd as Fmon lt~rminatod them wltnn thn company's wnb ol' fraudulent accounting was rnvnalnd in late 2001. 

Suit alleges health insurance fraud 
LOS ANGI·:LI•:S -Twnlvn statn Bluo Cross and Bltw Shield hnalth insurance plans have stwd a group ol' Southern California health can~ dinics. physicians and others they say arn involvml in an nlaborate schnrnn to pnr­form unrwr.nssary surgeries and bilk insurnrs out of millions of dollars. 
Tho suit was lib! in coopnration with statn and fndnral authoritins, including the I'BI, which had previously filed criminal ehargns against somn of tlw dnl'nndants. 
Thn sropn of tho alleged fraud is vast. Thn insurers daim tho dinics paid recruiters to enlist patients in 47 states, then transported the pnopln to California where they undorwmtt unnnmlnd and somotinws clangorous outpa­l.innt procndurns. 
In sonw easns, tho "patinnts" staynd several days and had snvoral difTnrnnt procedures, for which tlwy wnro paid from $200 to $3,000. 
Tho lawsuit daims tho dinies then billed a nurnlwr of individual lwalth plans !'or the pro­t:ndurns, which rwttnd morn than $30 million. 
Tho investigators said that from August 2002 to April 200:~. tlw dol'endants rocruilnd morn than :J,OOO patients nationwide to undergo unrwcnssary procndurns. 


Eisner to step do-wn early at Disney 
Company president and chiefoperating officer will assume CEO role October 1 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELI\S-Miehanl 
1\isnnr, tho longtime CEO of 
Tho Walt Disnny Co., will 
stnp down a yoar oarlior 
than oxpndnd. handing 
ovor tho rnins to Hobt)rt 
Igor and ending a tumul­
tuous stint atop tho enter­
tainment giant. Stock rosn 
in early trading. 
lgnr, 54, tho company's eurnmt president and chief operating oflicor, on Sunday was narnnd to succoed l<:isnnr as chief executive. lin will assume his nnw role Oct. l and will eo-lead the eompany with Eisner dur­ing the transition, Disnoy's board said. 
lie inherits the company as it continues an earnings recovery, opens a new themo park in !long Kong, enjoys a ratings boost at its ailing ABC network and builds on success of its dominant ESPN eabln not­work. 
"This is not a broken company. If things go right lilr Bob. it could bn a plw­nomonal performer in the next lilw years," said Larry !Iaverty, a portfolio manag­or at Gabolli Asset Managornont. 

Investors were ploased that Igor would take over for Eisner a year earlier than planned. Disney shares rose 1R cnnts to $27.77 in fHtrly trading lger is seen as less polar­president in 2000, has tnrrilic ehoiee," Wninstnin Monday. izing that Eisner, a trait alr·eady won praise from said. 
lgnr will l[tce many ehal­that might give Disney Miramax Films eo-chair­lgnr's pnopln skills will hn lenges. hownvnr, including another chanee to cut a man llarvny Wninstein. testnd when it. comes to dis­repairing some of tho rela­nnw doal with longtime 1\isner has repeatedly sident sharnholdnrs Hoy tionships damaged by partner Pixar Animation elashod with brothnrs Bob Disnny and c;old. The two Eisnnr, rwgotiating broad­Studios, the makers of such and llarvoy Weinstt~in since eritieiznd Disnny's board east rights with the NFL, hits as this year's Oscar­Disney bought tho inde­Sunday and hinted tlwy oxpanding Disney into winning "The lncrcdiblns." pendent studio in 1<J<J:~. might lnad anotlwr sharn­China and India, protocting "I think probably Bob has Disney is dose to ending its holder rovoll. its eontont from piracy bntter suer;ess doing some­12-year rnlationship with "We lind it ineompmhnn­while embraeing now tech­thing that could benefit the the Woinstnins in a dna! sibln that tho board of nology and warding off Disney shareholders," that will see Disney keep dirodors of Disney faiiP<I to another shareholder chal­llaverty said. the Miramax name and lind a singln nxtnrnal randi­lenge from disgruntled ex­Pixar CEO Stove Jobs has library while the Weinsteins dato intnrnstPd in tlw job directors Hoy E. Disney and said he would wait before leave to form their own and thus handed Bob lg(H' Stanley Gold. talking to other studios company. the job by dnfault," thn two 
1\isner, who had said he about distributing his lilms On Sunday, llarvoy mnn said in a statnnwnl. would stop down in 2006, until after Disney choose Weinstein praised lgnr's "The 1wnd for tho Walt will end his tenure this year Eisner's suecossor. Pixar ehoieo, though it will not l>isnoy Corn pany to have a allor serving 21 years. Igor has one more lilm to deliver change tho outcome of the dean brnak from the prior will become only the sixth under its current Disney talks. ''I've had a great rogime and to changP the leadnr of Disney in its histo­deal. working relationship with leadership eulturn has been ry. Igor, who was named Bob Igor and think he's a glaringly obvious." 


Bloggers 111ay have to reveal sources 
order against the subpoenas, saying gy and innovation gt)nerally."
Associated Press that identifying sourens would create Frnn spnoch advoeatns and attor­SAN .JOSE -A California judge on a "chilling effect" that could erode neys for tho rnportnrs rritidzt~d tho Friday ruled that threo independent tlw media's ability to report in tho ruling, insisting that all journalists online rnporters may have to divulge public's interest. should enjoy tho samn logal protnc­confidential sources in a lawsuit But Santa Clara County Superior tions as reporters in mainstrnam brought by Apple Computer Inc., rul­Court Judge James Kleinberg ruled newsrooms. Among thosn arn protec­ing that thoro arn no legal protec­in Apple's favor, saying that reporters tions afforded undor California's tions for those who publish a compa­who published "stolen property" "shinld" law, which is nwant to pro­ny's trade secrets. weren't entitled to protections. teet journalists and encourage tlw Apple sued 25 employees who "What underlies this decision is tho publieation of information in tlw allegedly leaked confidential produet publishing of information that at this publie's internst. information to three Web publishers. early stage of tho litigation fits "This opinion should bn concerning The Cupertino-based company said squarely within the definition of to reporters of all stripes, nspodally the leaks violated nondisclosure trade secret," Kleinberg wrote. "The those who report in the linaneial or agrnements and California's Uniform right to keep and maintain propri­trade press and arn routinely rnport­Trade Soernts Act. Company attor­etary information as such is a right ing about companios and their prod­neys demanded that the reporters which the California Legislature and ucts," said 1\lnt:lronic Frontier identify their soureos. eomts have long aflirmod and which Foundation attorrwy Kurt Opsahl, The reporters sought a protoetive is essential to the future of teehnolo-who roprosnntml the rt~portnrs. 
page 8 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 15 2005 
ISRAEL 

Route of barrier vvill enclose disputed land 
Claimed area includes Palestine's intended capital, large Jewish settlement in West Bank 
Congratulations, Notre Dame 
c Society of Women En 


0 
E 
.0 
E 

ro ~ 
y 0 u 3 
ro (L1 
::J 
c 

Q) ::J 
0
E 
r-T r-T
.c 
0
..... 

-~ (j) (L1 r-T
ro 

::J ru ::J
o­

lD '< .0 Q) 3 
;=t:

0 (j)
..... 

= .Y. Q) 
Q) -Not Pictured: the other 115 SWEet members! ­(f) 
0 

You showed amazing leadership, motivation,
.c 
~ 

and determination in putting together
c 
Q) 

an INCREDIBLE regional conference! E 0 Thanks for aII of your hard work!
5 

= Keep in touch! 
0 Love, Meg/1an and Nicole ru < 

ISRAEL

Revised barrier approved 
A revised plan tor the Israeli barrier around Jerusalem will encompass some lands West 
Bank 

claimed by the Palestinians. 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -The final route of Israel's separation bar­rier around Jerusalem will encompass large areas claimed by the Palestinians, including their intended capital and the biggest Jewish settlement in the West Bank, Israeli officials con­firmed Monday. 
The route would also place a holy site in the Palestinian town of Bethlehem on the Israeli side of the barrier, while leaving a Palestinian refugee camp in Jerusalem encircled by a sepa­rate fence, the officials said. 
Late Monday, Israeli and Palestinian Cabinet ministers agreed again on a handover of the West Bank town of Jericho to Palestinian security control. Earlier agreements fell through over details about roadblocks. 
Israeli officials said the han­dover is set for Wednesday, to be followed two or three days later by Tulkarem, then Qalqiliya. Two other towns are to be transferred to Palestinian con­trol as well -Bethlehem and Ramallah -but those were not agreed on at Monday's meeting between Palestinian Interior Minister Nasser Yousef and Israeli Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz. 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan, meanwhile, was opti­mistic about efforts to get peace talks back on track, saying "the positive developments here give us a chance to re-energize the process." 
Annan spoke after meeting with Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas in the West Bank city of Ramallah. Palestinian militants were to begin talks Tuesday in Cairo on formalizing an unofficial truce with Israel. 
Israel began building the bar­rier in the West Bank two years ago, saying it was needed to keep out Palestinian attackers. Palestinians say the structure, which dips into the West Bank, is an attempt by Israel to impose a border without waiting for a peace deal. 
The section around Jerusalem is especially sensitive. The Palestinians hope to establish their capital in east Jerusalem, a traditional Arab commercial, religious and social center. Israel. which captured east Jerusalem in the 1967 Mideast 
Jerusal~ 
Area of detail 

Gaza Shuafat EGYPT Strip Twenty-five acre Palestinian refugee camp will be separated from Jerusalem 
Maaleh Adumim 
Israeli settlement of 30,000 will 
be included on Israeli side Rachel's Tomb Barrier will divide tomb from the rest of the city, allowing Israeli access to the site 
JOR 
AP Graphic 

war, claims all the city as its capital. 
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon convened a meeting of senior Cabinet ministers late Sunday to discuss the route of the barrier, which got Cabinet approval last month. 
Under the plan, the West Bank settlement of Maaleh Adumim, which lies five miles east of Jerusalem, would be on the Israeli side of the barrier, Israeli officials said. About 30,000 Israelis live in Maaleh Adumim, the largest Jewish settlement. 
"Does anyone have even the slightest doubt that Maaleh Adumim is an integral part of Israel?" said Israeli Vice Premier Ehud Olmert, who heads a ministerial committee on the Jerusalem barrier. 
A senior Israeli official said the committee is planning 11 crossings to allow access from the West Bank. 
The official, speaking on con­dition of anonymity, said con­struction is to be completed by year's end and no major changes in the route are expect­ed. A number of legal challenges flied by Palestinian villagers are pending in Israeli courts. 
The Palestinian refugee camp of Shuafat, which straddles the Jerusalem municipal boundary, will remain on the Israeli side of the barrier. It will be encircled by a separate fence, with a crossing into the city. 
The bustling streets of Shuafat -sandwiched between two Jewish neighborhoods -were 
buzzing  with  speculation  
Monday  about  the  planned  
fence.  

"Jerusalem is considered to this camp like the heart to the body," said Mohammed Omar, a 50-year-old teacher in Shuafat. "All their [residents'] activities are in Jerusalem." 
According to the United Nations, 11,250 people live in the camp, a maze of narrow, dusty streets and densely packed gray concrete buildings. Israeli officials said the camp has been used as a launching point by Palestinian attackers, and the fence is needed for security. 
In Bethlehem, the barrier will divide Rachel's Tomb, a Jewish shrine, from the rest of the city. Concrete slabs already have vir­tually cut off Bethlehem from J~rusalem. 


The College ofArts and Letters invites Student Nominations for 

Kaneb Teaching Awards 
Each year Kaneb Teaching Awards recognize approximately 25 Arts and Letters faculty for excellence in undergraduate teaching. 
Tenured faculty as well as professional specialist and adjunct faculty who have taught at least five years are eligible. 
Take advantage of this opportunity to have a voice in the selection of these recipients by nominating one ofyour outstanding teachers for this award. 
Send a brief letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 
Hugh Page, Associate Dean 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Friday, March 18, 2005 

GUEST ARTISTS 
Ronan Tynan in Concert 

THIS YEAR, SAINT PATRICK'S DAY AT NOTRE DAME WILL BE MORE IRISH THAN EVER 
Thursday, March 1 7 at 8 pm Tickets; $75 preferred seating, $50 general public, $40 faculty/staff, $37 seniors, $20 all students 

Emanuel Ax and Yefim Bronfman 
friday, March 1 8 at 8 pm Tickets: $48, $38 faculty/staff, $36 seniors, $15 all students 


Ladysmith Black Mambazo 
Sunday, March 20 at 8 pm Tickets: $35, $28 faculty/staff, 
$26 seniors, $15 all students 


Natalie MacMaster 
Friday, April 8 at 8 pm Tickets $35, $28 faculty/staff, 
$26 seniors, $15 all students 

Alton 
Friday, April 15 at 8 pm Tickets $35, $28 faculty/staff, 
$26 seniors, $ 15 all students 


Emerson String Quartet 
Saturday, April 16 at 8 pm 
Tickets $35, $28 faculty/staff, 
$26 seniors, $15 all students 
F I L M 

BROWNING CINEMA 

Tickets $6, $5 faculty/staff, $4 seniors, $3 all students 
Tickets go on sale each Monday before the screenings. For more information about these films, please visit http://performingorts.nd.edu. 


Rosenstrasse {2004) 
Sponsored by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies Thursday, March 1 7 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
King of Kings ( 1961 ) Friday, March 1 8 at 7 pm 

Trouble in Paradise ( 1932) 
PAC CLASSIC 100 Saturday, March 19 at 3 pm 

Barabbas (1962) 

Saturday, March 19 at 7 pm 
D A N C E 

The Sleeping Beauty 
Presented by Southold Donee Theater 
Decio Mainstage Theatre Tickets: $25, $19 seniors, $12 all students Friday, April29 at 7:30pm Saturday, April 30 at 2 and 7:30pm 
M U S C 

Notre Dame Schola Musicorum 
Abend-Musique XXIV Wednesday, March 16 at 8 pm Reyes Organ and Choral Hall Free and open to the public; tickets required 
The Notre Dame Glee Club 
Saturday, March 19 at 8 pm leighton Concert Hall Tickets: $6, $5 faculty/staff, $4 seniors, $3 all students 
The Notre Dame Chamber Players 
Thursday, March 31 at 8 pm Leighton Concert Hall Tickets: $10, $8 faculty/staff, $6 seniors, $3 all students 

page 10 The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS Tuesday, March 15, 2005 
PUT YOUR MON(Y'S·WORTH WH(R( YOUR MOUTH lSI ............. ~· IJ'J~ 1:111~  
\\-WIY JOftJ\f~.t~_II1983 c::'ORLD•s GREAT£5Jr.s URMET SANDWlC  
WEJOHIV[H.  54570 N. IRONWOOD DR.-574.277.8500  ,JIMMY ,JOHNS .COM  




Jackson accuser told dean nothing happened 
Associated Press ed Alpert as telling the 
youngster: "Look at me, look 
SANTA MARIA, Calif. -The at me .... I can't help you boy who says Michael unless you tell me the truth Jackson molested him -did any of this happen?" acknowledged under cross­When asked when the con­examination Monday that he versation occurred, the boy told an administrator at his said: "I believe it was after I school the pop star "didn't do came back from Neverland." anything to me." It was not clear in court 
The teenager was asked why the dean asked the boy about conversa-about Jackson. tions he had However, when a with Jeffrey television docu­Alpert, the dean "/ told Dean Alpert mentary on 
at John he didn't do Jackson aired in Burroughs Mid­2003, the boy
anything to me. I
dle School in Los was shown in it. 
Angeles, where told him twice" Mesereau con-the boy had a fronted the history of acting teenager with
Michael Jackson's 
up in class. school records 

accuser
"I told Dean Alpert he didn't do anything to me," the boy said under questioning by Jackson attor­ney Thomas Mesereau Jr. "I told him twice." 
Prosecutors allege Jackson, 46, plied the boy, a cancer survivor, with alcohol and molested him at his Neverland Hanch in 2003. 
The pop star, who was threatened with arrest when he failed to show up in court on time Thursday, arrived on schedule Monday. Unlike last time, when a disheveled Jackson finally arrived in a coat, T-shirt and pajama bot­toms, he wore a smart red jacket with a black armband and black slacks. His parents escorted him inside. 
Mesereau, during his cross­examination of the boy, quot-
University ofNotre Dame's International Study Programs 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOW MARCH 15 
that showed nine 
teachers had 

complained about the boy's disruptive behavior, events the boy acknowledged. 
Of one teacher, he said; "I felt as if he didn't deserve respect as a teacher. I didn't respect him as a person." 
He complained on the wit­n~iss stand about the teaching methods of virtually every teacher mentioned. 
"When I would stand up to teachers the other students would congratulate me," he said. He added: "I was argu­mentative at times. I didn't like the way they taught me. I wasn't learning anything." 
Later in the day, Los Angeles attorney Thomas Flicker Forsyth said in an interview he was represent­ing a potential witness who Jackson's associ­ates had the boy's family 
"[My grandmother]
make the video 
after the broad­was telling me it cast or the docu­was OK to do it, mentary, in 
and Michael was
which Jackson 
saying you have to
said he allowed the boy to sleep do it." in his bed while he slept on the 

Michael Jackson's
floor. The prose­cution claims 

accuser 
the rebuttal video was staged and scripted. 
Mesereau also elicited testi­mony to amplify defense con­tentions the boy developed a grudge against Jackson and was troublesome at Neverland. 
him the same thing, but the context was different. 
"She was telling me it was OK to do it, and Michael was saying you have to do it," the boy said. 
grandmother had told him the same thing. 
"Why did your story change between that interview and your testimony last Thursday?" Mesereau asked. 
The boy denied changing his story. He said both his grand­mother and Jackson had told 


Pontiff keeps TV net-works 
•


guessing 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -With Pope 
John Paul II's health declining, 
CBS News executive Marey 
McGinnis traveled to Home to 
negotiate a 10-year lease for the 
rights to broadcast from the 
roof of a hotel overlooking St. 
Peter's Square when the pope 
dies. 
That was nine years ago. 

"I thought I was very smart 
making a 10-year deal," she 
said. "It should have been 15." 
Or more, judging by the 84­year-old pope's tenacity. A papal succession is one of those big stories that television networks can assiduously prepare for, and they have. They just don't know when those plans will be needPd at a moment's notice, and must make sure they're not outdated when it happens. 
The pope's death will be a 
major story across the world 
that will fill many hours of air­
time, and will be the first such 
succession in the era of 24-hour 
news. 

"John Paul II in some remark­able way embodies the human experience in our time in a way that perhaps no other figure has since Churchill," said George Weigel, one of the pope's biog­raphers. 
"was part of the school administration at the time he had contact with the victim." 
He said his client met with prosecution and defense attorneys Saturday, and that he believed his client would be called as a witness. 
Mesereau attempted to attack the heart of the con­spiracy case by showing the so-called "rebuttal video," stopping it at points where the boy speaks and asking if he was telling the truth. In most instances the boy said he ,vas. 
The boy said he, his mother and brother did not discuss any plan to lie in the video, although he said at times his mother said things suggested to her by Jackson associate Dieter Wiesner. 
Prosecutors allege that 
Join The Observer! Call Claire at 1-4542 
The boy acknowledged he felt Jackson abandoned him after his cancer went into remission. He said an SUV given to the family was taken back by J aekson's staff for repairs and was never returned. Similarly, he said a computer was taken back for repairs and never returned. 
Mesereau also cross-exam­ined the accuser about simi­larities between a statement he testified Jackson made about masturbation and an earlier statement the boy attributed to his grandmoth­er. 
On Thursday, the boy testi­fied Thursday that Jackson told him if men do not mas­turbate, they might rape women. Mesereau noted the boy told sheriff's investiga­tors in an interview that his 
®2005 JIMMY 
JDHN"S fRANCHISE. INC. 


Tuesday, March 15, 2005 The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page I 1 
'Monday Night Football' intro ruled not indecent 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Sure, the steamy introduction to ABC's "Monday Night Football" was titillating, showing the bare back of "Desperate Housewives" actress Nicollette Sheridan as she jumped into the arms of football player Terrell Owens. 
But U.S. regulators ruled Monday the racy dip didn't vio­late federal indecency stan­dards. In a unanimous decision, the five-member Federal Communications Commission said the segment "simply is not graphic or explicit enough to be indecent under our standard." 
A spokesman for ABC sports, Mark Mandel, said the company wouldn't comment. 
The segment that aired last November showed Sheridan in a locker room wearing only a towel and provocatively asking the Philadelphia Eagles wide receiver to skip the game for her. She then dropped the towel and leaped into Owens' arms. 
Only the upper back of the "Desperate Housewives" star was exposed and no foul lan­guage was used -in fact, the scene was no racier than what's routinely seen on soap operas. But ABC said it received com­plaints from viewers who thought it was inappropriate. 
While agreeing with the deci­sion, Democratic Commissioner Michael Copps criticized ABC for airing the segment at a time -9 p.m. EST-whfm many children were watching. 
"There wasn't much snlf-disd­pline in this particular promo­tion," lw said. "As stewards of the airwaves, broadcasters can and should do better." 
Federal law bars nonsatellit1i radio stations and noneable tnl­evision channels from airing certain references to sexual and excretory functions between 6 
a.m. and 10 p.m., when chil­dren are most likely be tuning in. 
While the f'ednral indeeeney statute has been on the books for many years: the FCC has considerably boosted enforce­ment in the last 18 months. The watershed event eame in February 2004 when Janet Jackson's right breast was brief'ly exposed during tho Super Bowl halftime show. 
The FCC wound up proposing a $550,000 fine against CBS, whieh broadcast the Super Bowl. The nntwork is appealing. After th1~ Jackson incident, some networks began using a broadcast delay on live pro­grams to catch any ofl'flnsive material before it aired. 
Congress is considering dra­matically boosting fines for indecency. The House last month overwhelmingly passnd a bill to raiso the maximum fine from $32,500 to $500,000. 1\. similar bill has been introduced in the Senate but has not had a hearing. 
Stamos plays ladies tnan in ABC cotnedy 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Consider "Jakn in Progress" the latest example of how things can come in throes. 
After a preview last Sunday, the new John Stamos comedy arrives on its regular night, Thursday, with back-to-back episodes airing 8 p.m. EST. Its network: ABC, which already has enjoyed a Lazarus-like recovery with "Lost" and "Desperate Housewives," the season's most­talked-about hits. Now could "Jake in Progress" be the third'? 
Why not'? "Jake" is frosh, antie and smart, with the former "Full House" star exhibiting a gift for adult romantic comedy while making sport of his image since teenhood as a heartthrob. 
Playing a slick PR agont who mostly handles celebrity dients, he is surrounded by a splendid supporting east: Wendie Maliek ("Just Shoot Me") as Jake's diva­ish boss; Ian Gomez as his ehild-

Thank ~ou Information Meeting March 15@ 5:30p.m. 
To Our Sweethearts Gym 2 (above Gate 10 of the Joyce Center). All are 
Jackie Cia rk, Halle Kiefer 
welcome-come see what cheerleading at Notre 

And The Class of 2006
Dame is all about. ... for the \f.~LEN.IINE'S DAY Want to write for news? Have a news tip? 
PARENTS NIGHT ClUT!
Call Heather. The new Assistant Managing Editor for News can be 
Hugs and kisses from your kids at 

reached at 1-5323, 4-0762 or hvanhoeg@nd.edu. 
University ViJiage.'! 
hood friend, a schlubby suburban dentist with the stablo family lili~ Jake thinks he wants; and, as a dementod porlimnance artist l'or­lwor hounding Jake to eithnr bn his publicist or his bnst friond, the hilarious Hick lloll'lnan. 
"I knnw the character I wantnd to play," says Stamos, thinking baek to when the show l'irst hogan to takn shapn. "lin's a guy who can make nveryonn nlsn seem like tlwy havn their aet t~).g1;t1~1~r -but I~.E donsn't. I lis hln1s m sharnblns. 
Well, maybe not in shamblns. But Jake has his hang-ups _­swnaty palms wlwn he gets nerv­ous; issuos about agn (lw's observf\d his 32m! birthday tlw past threfl years); a grass-is­greoner fixation. whnthnr it's lilr the supermodel aeross tho room who seems sexinr than thn girl hn's with, or liw thn lati\St model eell phone in sonwbody nlse's hand that makes him instantly unhappy with the one he owns. 







!rit 


~ 
I I 
TI--·1 E OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 12 
Tuesday, March 15, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
Tl~ lrukpemlnrt, Dt~ily N~spaptr &ruing Notn Dame and Sni1Jt Mary's 
1'0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Par Leonard Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 63 I -6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scenc.J@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 


OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advenisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q~«stiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tht-Observer (USPS '599 24QOO) is publi5h~d Monday through Friday d<cept during enm and vacuion periods. A subscription to The Obscrv~r i5 $100 fOr one academic year; $55 for one semester. 
Tht Obsuvcr is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining. Hall Send addres.5 rorrecdtms tot Notrt Dame, IN 46S56..0779 The Observer Ptriodical pos1agc: paid ;n Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additiond mailing offices. 024 SouEh Dining Hall 
Notre: Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member ofthe!' Associated Pn:u. All rcproduaion rights ate 
te51:l'Vcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Maddie Hanna Dan Tapetillo Meghanne Matt Lazar 
Downes Tom Dorwart Julie Bender Scene Viewpoint Ram a Katherine Rowley Gottumukkala Graphics Illustrator Desiree Zamora Katie Knorr 

A tale of two grassroots movements 
I hope everyone had an enjoyable break from the world of academics and polities in places more tolerable than South Bend. Although I didn't make it to any of those warmer parts of the conti­nent (not all Republicans arc rich), Tom I did thoroughly enjoy Rippingerthe events of the week before break. I did 
Confessions of 
manage to fit a few 
a Campus
political science 
Conservative

midterms in an other­wise hectic week of political activity. And unfortunately, I'm going to have to bore you all with another column on the Social Security policy debate gridlock. 
In my chronic condition of political addiction, I began working with the College Republicans and the local Republican leadership to develop just one or many grassroots responses to President Bush's visit. The current poli­cy debate is entirely unique from any other policy issue since the Vietnam War due to the significant impact it will have on younger voters. This being said, the local Republican leadership wanted to find a way to get younger Republicans involved in the grassroots effort to build up support for President Bush's initiative to address the issue of the future or Social Security. 
Before I go into detail about the local efforts of young conservative voters fighting for retirem.ent security, I must take a minute to step back and admire the tactics of the left. Following the lead of Howard Dean, who has been quoted saying, "Don't propose, simply oppose, oppose, oppose!" the left has mobilized its own vast coalition of grassroots organizers. Instead of catering to the concerns of the young, they have uti­lized their far more successful tactic of whipping up older voters into a frenzy of fear. 
They have begun a campaign of leav­ing automated phone messages in Republican-controlled Congressional districts making sure to stress how any 
LETIER TO THE EDITOR 
Hunger strike protects others 
On March 16, students from Notre Dame will join thou­sands of citizens from across the nation in the largest one­day hunger strike in the U.S. history. The hunger strike is intended to demonstrate solidarity with the people of Darfur, to grieve over enforced starvation in Sudan and to generate enough media attention and political will to address the crisis in Darfur. 
The situation in Darfur continues to deteriorate. It is esti­mated that more than 300,000 people have died since con­flict between rebel groups and government forces began in February 2003. Since that time, the government-supported Janjaweed militia have indiscriminately attacked civilians and villages in the Darfur region in a campaign that the U.S. government has called genocide. 
The genocide in Sudan is a preventable conflict. Millions of lives can be saved by a little political will and smart action by Western nations. Next week, Congress will consid­er passing the Darfur Accountability Act of 2005. The legis­lation calls on the United States to support the expansion of the African peacekeeping force, to impose focused sanctions on the government of Sudan and to press the United Nations Bush plan would involve benefit cuts and throwing all of your money away into that mysterious stock market which is really just "waiting to crash at any moment." Aside from ominous phone messages warning of Bush's mischie­vous plan to throw all of your money away, they also mobilize older 
OBSERVER POLL  
Do you already have an  Submit a  
internship for the summer?  Letter to the Editor at  
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at  www. ndsmcobserver. com  
www.ndsmcobserver.com  

anti-Bush forces to turn out will be directly affected by a in force for town hall policy should be consulted. meetings and Social In our own little grass­Security reform roots victory, we had events. Most of the over 100 Notre Dame protesters and full­students call young time anti-Bush voters in this district enthusiasts that and ask them how protested Bush's they felt about visit were Social Security Americans too old reform. Once the to even be affect-results are com­ed by any changes puted, we will find to Social Security. out a lot more 
I was forwarded about your opinions the Moveon.org e­on the issue rather mail sent to protest­than feeding you ers of Bush's visit. pre-manufactured Conveniently enough, talking points on an it gave them short talk­issue. Efforts such as ing points to tell the this help provide critical media about why they information to legislators oppose Social Security about our generation that go 
reform. In keeping with Dean's strategy, I heard no alternatives about what counterproposals they had to fix Social Security. Their protest seemed more like an "I hate Bush, too" support group than an intelligent expression of free speech. If Senator Hillary Clinton were president, perhaps I could relate to how such gatherings may be of ther­apeutic value. 
The difference between them and us is that we have asked for alternative proposals and ideas. I'll let you in on what the "evil" Republicans did in the week leading up to the president's visit. We organized a College Republicans Social Security phone bank on March 1 in LaFortune. Rather than leaving auto­mated messages with older voters, we determined it would be best to call those that would be affected by any pro-
Security Council to impose sanctions on "perpetrators of crimes against humanity in Darfur." It is essential for the protection of the people of Darfur that this bill passes. 
As citizens living in an increasingly interconnected world, we have a responsibility to protect the people of Darfur because the Sudanese government is unwilling or unable. The hunger strike on Wednesday is one way for concerned citizens to urge policy makers to take action in Darfur. If you would like to join in the national movement, please take the time to sign up at www.darfurgenocide.org/MarchStrike.html. 
We have the ability to urge policy makers to pass legisla­tion that will save thousands of lives in a preventable crisis. It is right that we do this and everything in our power 
towards that end. 
Patrick Corrigan The Sudan Steering Committee sophomore Keenan Hall March 14 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"What is moral is what you feel good after and what is immoral is what you feel bad after.,, 
Ernest Hemingway American writer 
posals for reform. We did the unconven­tional and called younger voters. Statistically, this tactic is not worth it, banking on the fact that younger voters are among the least reliable of coali­tions in American politics. This consid­eration, of course, is outweighed by the 
moral imperative that voters who 
beyond the sound bites taken from a few rabid Bush-hating protest­ers. 
In the long run, not all grassroots activity is created equally. The nucleus of a presidential visit provided us with a unique opportunity for political activity and discussion. Hopefully, our efforts will prove successful in mobilizing our generation to confront the issue. We'll continue to try and counter the frenzied resistance of the left with sound policy proposals. 
Tom Rippinger is a senior political sci­ence major. He is the co-president of the Notre Dame College Republicans. He can be contacted at trippinl@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

Tt--IE 0HSERVER 




IEWPOINT
'Ji.resday, March I 5, 2005 page 13 
Standing for liberty in Uganda 
Dnar l'rnsidnnt Bush. 
In your sncond inaugural address in .January, you said, "Today, America spmtks arww to thn peoples of thn world. All who livn in tyranny and hopnlessness can know 
tlw llnitod States will  
not ignoro our opprns­ Peter  
siorl or nxeuse your  Quaranto  
opprossors. Wlwn you  
stand l<lf your liberty, wn will stand with you." Wlwn I first lward  A Call to Action  
tlwsn words I linmd  

mysnlf' highly cynical. While Uw language of' "f'rnndom" has ct~rtainly bmm a priority of' your administration post-Snpt. 11, I lind our continuPd and ovnn strPngthonnd allo­gianr.ns with nations such ;u; Pakistan. Colombia, Saudi Arabia and lsnwl to bn quitP hypo<Titiral. Not to mnntion that I considnr our actions in Iraq and Iran to bn 
IPSS than rn~ndom-guidnd. 
YPt whilP wn may disagrn1~ on tho mnans, I do bt>linvn, Mr. l'msidnnt, that you am cornmiltl'd to tlw Pnd of' a world of' li'f~n­dom. Thus. I am writing to you to ask you to Iiw up to tho words you prodaimnd in .January. In tlw country of' Uganda, tlw UnitPd Slatns has an opportunity to stand for dPmoiTacy and f'rnndom. Wn must soizn tlw rnonwnt. 
In Uganda, tho l'arlianwnt is l'.urrnntly dnbating an omnibus ronstitutional anwnd­nwnt hill, which will nliminato the nstab­lishnd two-tl'rm limit for tho prosidnntial oflk11. 
J\dvoratPs lin· LhP SIH'.allnd kisanja (tho symbol to nnd tho tl'rm limits) argue that l'n~sidnnt YouwPri Mus1wPni, tho prnsidnnt of Uganda sincn IIJS(,, has donn much good liw l.lw country and should bn allowml to rontintw to bring prospPrity to the wuntry. It is indisputabln that Musevnni has done murh good, hut it is also indisputable that thn rnmoval of' tnrrn limiL'> will bn a massivn blow to mnst.itutionalism. dnmoeracy and ruin of law in tlw "pnarl of J\friea." 
Sineo the debate began almost a year ago, Musevcni and the so-ealled Movement (Museveni's party that controls political and military power in Uganda) have been using taetics of suppression, propaganda and fear to gain the support of the popula­tion. They have repressed opposi­tion voices. Just rnenntly, the army bmtt up live opposi­tion parliamnntarians when they attempted to visit eamps in the north for internally displaend peoples. 
The newspapnrs hnre havn rnport­ed that · Musevnni gave out livo million 
Uganda shillings to every member of Parliament who promised to support tho constitutional 
anwndmnnt. The Movnmont is. also openly f'unding and training military youth brigadns to work in tho cam­paign. 
Tadies of corruption and intimidation have scathed tho parliamnntary debate, basically ensuring that Musnveni and his supportnrs will w~t what they seek. Thn poopln of Uganda, still eonsdous of the violent dictatorial r1-1gimos of' Milton Obote and ldi Amin in the 1960s and 1<J70s, choose stability and security over freedom and rule of law. When Museveni's followers frame the dobate in t1mns of' whnther people arc bettor ofT' than they were 18 years ago, he will always win out of politics of fear. 
On the surtace, a repeal of the term lim­iL<> is harmless, especially if it is allowing a popularly-supported ruler to remain in office. However, the dark narrative in Africa of elected ru1ers overstaying their 
rule and becoming violent dicta­
tors is too vivid. Hnpealing the accounta­bility mechanisms in the 
constitution will only further weaken a 
deteriorating cul­ture of constitu­tionalism that 
reeks of corrup­
tion and mis­managmmmt. Many argue 
that Museveni's hold on power has exacerbat­ed the mnlliet in northern Uganda, a vio­
lnnt war that has loll morn than 1.6 million people displacnd 
and hundrods of 
thousands killnd, rapod and abductnd. Just over a year ago, 
Ugandans voted to open the political space for multipartyism, hoping the political system would evolvn 
into a culture of pluralism and trans­parency. The governance crises highlighted by the kisanja debate show that Uganda is far from such a political culture. Many believe that Uganda, with its blatant regional inequalities, stands at a watershed moment with mass violence lurking in the future. 
If' this constitutional amendmnnt omnibus bill passes, it will totally transform 

the constitution of 1995, a eonstitution con­
struded in one of the most democratic 
fashions in all of' Africa. Thn 1995 p1Hlplo's 
constitution will bocomo Musnvnni's eonsti­
tution, once again a political piece of papnr 
easily manipulatfld fill" pownr polities. Morn 
and more, the barrel of tho gun is substi­. luting lngality as tho soun~n of politkal 
legitimacy. 
It appears inovitable that the anwndmont 

will pass and Musnveni will be given anoth­
er term and evnn morn. The only hopn that 
this tragedy can be avnrtnd is if' into rna­
tiona! donors, whoso donations makn up 
more than 50 percent of Uganda's rnvemw, 
utilize their pownr to prnssurn tho govern­
ment. Tho Unitnd States as a m;~jor donor 
in Uganda has a rare opportunity to exnr­
eise its pownr in the name of frnedom ­
not through bombs and wars. hut through 
intense diplomacy and economic dout.. 
In this agn, wn have to rncognizt~ tho rnsounding nllhcts that. a myriad aetions and inaetions by the Unitnd Statns have throughout tlw world. J\nwricans, rontact­ing their rnprnsnntativns to dtHnaml action, ean stand fin· liberty and justice in Uganda. By applying our power in positive ways, the United States can truly bn a voice against. opprnssion and injusticn in t.tu~ world. 
!Inre in Uganda, many arn daring to stand lin· libnrty. President Bush, will wn fullill your plndgn that. t.hn Unitnd Statns will stand with thnm'? I mrtainly hopn so. 
Peter Quaranto is a junior political sci­ence and peace studies majm: lie writes from Kampala, l lgarula, where he is study­ing deuelopment studies this semester at Makerere llnioersi(y. Head his running commentary from Uganda at www. peterquaranlo. blogspol. com. Cont.acl Peter at pquaranl@nd.edu. 
The oiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseroer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Providing for the vulnerable 
I was dismaynd to road about President Bush's speech to the Notrn Damn community about his ell'orL'> to undermin1~ Social Security, more properly known as Old J\gn, Survivors and Disability Insurance (you may havn snnn 0/\SDI dmluetion on a pay stub). 
lie is turning tlw focus away from our social compaet for the protection of' tlw nldnrly, orphans and the disabled by encouraging everyonn to ask, "what's in it for me?'' Insurance plans are judgnd not on individual out­comes hut instnad on the !-,Tfeator good they provide. 
In my eas1~. 37 ymtrs old and unmarrind, if I die tomorrow, I will "lose" till~ tnns of' thousands I havo paid into OASOL llowever, my 25-year-old brother-in-law has only paid in a small amount. My sister and little niece and n1~phnw would "win" nconomie security far f..rreater than his contribu­tions if he wnrn to die soon. My 89-year-old grandmother has already "won" much morn than her contributions by far outliving her life nxpeetancy. 
Tlwre will always bo winners and losers in an insurance plan and no one can know in advance to whieh group they will belong. According to Bush, your parnnts should go to their insurance agent and demand back Uwir premiums since they have had no claims in 20 years; after all, it was "thnir" money. Evnryone must pay OJ\.';;!}I premiums to fund bnnelits for thn elderly, orphans and the disablnd. Siphoning contributions off for per­sonal r!ltirmnent accounts will undermine the system, just as your parents snnking rnturn of their premiums would bankrupt thnir insurance compa­ny. 
But in a broader sense, Bush is trying to kill Social Security by trying to shirt the fileus to individuals and appealing to individual selfishness, "what's in it lbr me?" 
Soda! Seeurity is exaetly that, a social program to ensure some degree of nconomic security lbr the most vulnerable among us. It is one of the strongnst embodimenl'i of Christian values in our government, everyone working tognther to help keep our most vulnerable out of poverty. 
Soda! Security may have problems with premiums or benefits and those should bn addrnssed, but we should not losn our focus on the safety net it provides li1r our most vulnerable. Say no to Bush's plan. 
Jim Schilder alumnus Class of 1990 March 8 

Ren1aining open-n1inded 
Thirty years ago as a student at Notre Damn, I was a deeply closeted young man, but the University's respect for academic frendom and liberal exploration of all ideas, even those that did not conform to Catholic teaching, made the college a refuge whnre I was abln to search for the stren1-,rth to deal with my own personal struggle without any fear that the university would censor the single thing in my life I respected -my mind and its thirst for learning. 
It's not an exaggeration to say that those early years at Notre Dame allowed me to survive the next two painful decades of living a lie about my sexuality. At the very least, I had learned to think freely, even if I didn't have the courage to act openly until about six years ago. 
As a novelist and newspaper editor, I am appalled to read the attacks on Notre Dame's tradition of liberal thought by conservative reli­gious leaders and academics. It is a dedication to openness in the classroom that has earned Notre Dame the respect in academia that only the top universities in the nation share. 
But these days the heart of that openness is threatened by beliefs such as those of Father Hichard Warner, who wrote in a Feb. 23 Viewpoint column that the Notre Dame Queer Film Festival and the performance of The Vagina Monologues are moving the University "more in the direction of promoting an ethic in conflict with Catholic teaching and the lack of serious indications that their presence on our campus is truly a search for truth in an aca­demic setting." 
The guests who participated in the film festi­val are all men and women of courage and con­viction. They may not follow all of the teachings of the Catholic Church, but they are involved in trying to interpret our lives on this earth in moral and compassionate terms. They do not deserve the implication that they are somehow dangerous influences, heretics or men and women who have no respect for the truth. 
Pulitzer Prize winning playwright Terrence McNally, for instance, has worked his whole life to portray gay mnn in a way that libt~ratns thmn and shows others that thny sharn t.hn sanw drnams for lovn, compassion and sacrifkn that the Church I knew as a young man had asknd Catholics to strive for. 
Evn Ensler's Obie /\ward-winning play Thn Vagina Monologues may bn witty and irrnver­ent, but it is also compassionate and wisn and gives voice to women's feelings about snxuality that the Church, and certainly an aradnmic institution like Notre Damn, should novnr con­demn. 
Film director and screm1play writnr Don Hoos, Class of 1978, who has appearml at both Queer Film Festivals, is a driving !'oren in indo­pendent film. Any university anywhnre would be proud to count him among its most creative graduates. I certainly can't imagine one that would try to censor his work or presence on campus. 
If Warner and ·others truly bolieve that every­thing Notre Dame sponsors and tnaches must "bring the image of Jesus to perfection within us," then they are advocating the University turn itself into astrictly religious schooL Notre Dame would be the kind of place that offers no refuge to young and curious minds. Instead, it would loek students into doctrine. Soon Notre Dame would become little diiTerent from Christian lundamnntalist schools or even, God forbid, the blinding madrassas in the Arab world that try to turn the great religion of Islam into a dangerous and narrow-mindnd doetrine of censure and hate. 
I urge Warner and other leaders on c.ampus and in the church community to think deeply about why it matters to allow a free and spiritnd debate of ideas and artistic expressions at Notre Dame, especially ones as inspiring to a belea­guered population as the Queer Film FestivaL 
Gary Zebrun alumnus Cla.o;s of 1976 March 14 
THE OBSERVER 






CENE
page 14 
Tuesday, March 15, 2005 
DVD REVIEWS 

Foxx' s exuberant performance highlighted in 'Ray' 
By BRANDON HOLLIHAN 
Scene Critic 

The most admirable quality of the film "Ray" is that it makes Ray Charles more available to recent generations ­a group that witnessed the gifted musi­cian at the tail end of his life. 
To the latest generations, Charles was the man with the humorous cameo in "Blues Brothers." He starred in a Diet Pepsi commercial which spurred a famous tagline. There was also a clear connection made between him and Stevie Wonder, another musician whose music seems inaccessible at times. Altogether, director Taylor Ilackford's biopic -a work that took 15 years to finish and included Charles' collaboration -is a complete look at how the blind Georgia native rose to fame. 
Hackford lays out his film as if he almost intentionally wants it to rest upon the shoulders of its star, in this case Jamie Foxx. Foxx has gone from "In Living Color·" and being criticized for making fun of the Backstreet Boys succumb to his handicap. 

The extras in the "Ray" DVD are decent. There are 15 deleted scenes, the best ones being Ray singing with a group of Marines on a bus and Foxx ad-Jibbing a few lines with Lenix. The extras also have full-length versions of a couple of musical selections from the film, as well as a tribute to the deceased Charles. The main attraction, however, is a segment detailing how Foxx stepped into his role and has footage of Charles and Foxx working together before the former passed away. It's a fascinating clip in which viewers discover how diverse a per­former Foxx has become. 
Based on the film's box office receipts, there were quite a few people unable, or unwilling, to catch this film during its theatrical run. If you missed "Ray" in theaters, you can rest easy knowing that the DVD delivers and gives any Ray Charles fan enough fun to leave them satisfied. 
Contact Brandon Hollihan at bholliha@nd.edu 

to becoming one of Hollywood's top male actors. 
Foxx won the Oscar for Best Actor for his portrayal of Charles, and he deserves it. He also was nominated for his role in "Collateral." His Charles is delightfully easy to fall in love with, as we watch him overcome the odds to break into the business. He charms us with a huge grin at whatever night .club or concert hall he may be playing. 
By comparison, we hate Charles every time we see him struggle with drugs, particularly with heroin. This is one of the movie's main themes, and it reverberates so heavily throughout the film that it becomes a little burden­some. The story contrasts Charles' ascending fame with his declining character. It's a good idea, but the character is in such a rut towards the end of the film that the story must quickly jump to conclusions. The result is a two-and-a-half hour film without any real resolution. 
The story and the acting, however, are great and make up for any flaws in the plot. Of course Foxx is impressive, but kudos as well to Curtis Armstrong for his portrayal of Atlantic Records execu­tive Ahmet Ertegun, along with as Harry Lenix as Joe Adams, who served as Charles' concert MC and business confidante. Sharon Warren is also quite memorable as Ray's mother, depicted as a devoted woman who refuses to see her son 

'Darko' director's cut looks great, lacks extras 
By JONATHAN RETARTHA 
Scene Critic 

Since its release in 2001, "Donnie Darko," the tale of a boy, an alternate universe and a giant bunny rabbit, has become a cult classic. Although it is difficult to explain, it's an incredibly insightful film nonetheless that tackles problems with adolescence, God and everything in between. 
For those that have seen it -once or a hundred times as is often the case ­fans of "Donnie Darko" now have the opportunity to see the film in a drasti­cally altered "Director's Cut" DVD. After making the rounds in movie houses in Los Angeles and New York over the summer, the Director's Cut is available now on DVD. It offers both a new experience of the film and a much-deserved new DVD treatment. 
Director Richard Kelly is capitalizing on the newfound popularity by releas­ing the film the way he wanted it released, yet was unable to afford. The Director's Cut has 20 minutes of extra footage added and has many added songs from the 1980s by popular artists like INXS -artists Kelly wanted in the picture but didn't have the finances for during its initial produc­tion. 
The additional footage is composed primarily of devices that add clarity to the plot, which can be interpreted a different way by everyone who sees it. Significant additions include pages from "The Philosophy of Time Travel," a scene involving the novel "Watership Down" and a drastically altered end sequence. 
While most of these scenes were included as extras in the original DVD, Kelly has taken the time to do much more than simply chop them in. New transitions featuring images of Donnie's eye make the scenes blend perfectly together, while also further­ing the theme of "Deus Ex Machina" that pervades the film. 
The picture and sound quality have been remastered and are far superior to the original DVD. Digital graphics and audio effects, such as the liquid portals and auditorium scenes, have all been improved. 
The highlight of the original DVD was the entertaining commentary by Kelley and the cast. Because of 


this popularity, Kelly has added an all-new com­mentary to the Director's Cut, this time featuring himself and acclaimed cult director Kevin Smith, director of the "Jay and Silent Bob" films. 
While the new scenes, commentary and exqui­site transfer are all rea­sons enough for any "Darko" fan to pick up the new discs, the extras are once again sadly lacking. Most of them are the same as the extras from the UK edition of the Director's Cut, released months ago due to the increased main­stream popularity in Great Britain. There is a featurette on the film's No. 1 fan, which borders on creepy and stalkerish and several other vignettes, which mostly focus on how the film didn't succeed in the United States because of how "stupid" Americans are. 

In addition to the poor extras, the fact that the Director's Cut offers a 

clearer picture to the meaning of the film will undoubtedly polarize die-hard fans -many of whom love the film pri­marily because of its ambiguity. 
The new cut is definitely not an appropriate substitute for the original version of the film, but it offers a beau­tiful-looking and in-depth experience for those who are either uninterested in spending hours deciphering the meaning or those who have seen it so many times they welcome the visual improvements alone. 
Contact Jonathan Retartha at jretarth@nd.edu 
~-~--------------­
,.------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE'Ji.Jesday, March 15, 2005 
page 15 MOVIE REVIEWS 
Talented cast adds heart to 'Rwanda' 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Seem· Crilif 

Dirnctor Terry George's "Hotel Hwanda" is based on the true story of Paul Husesabagina, a hotel manager who bncame trappnd in the crossfire of a dvil war between the Hutus and the Tutsis, two warring Hwandan sects. The film itself' is an emotional rollercoaster that nnver losos sight of either the grandnr scope of the conf'lict or tho humanistic struggle of individual peo­pln. 
strikingly human performance. Cheadle has always been an impressive and under-appreciated actor, despite fine performances in films like "Traffic." His character, the real-life Husesabagina, starts out as a smooth-talking business­man before slowly transforming into a desperate crusader who risks his life for his family and the occupants of the hotel. 
!lis character and performance is by turns charismatic, confident, fearful and desperate. Cheadle makes it all believable in a way that allows the 
audience to con­


Thn real-lifo nect with his
Hotel Rwanda
gnnoeide, which character. Both occurrod in I1JIJ4, 
he and Sophie is not the focus of' Okonedo, who "llotel Hwanda," plays his Tutsi but it forms thn wife Tatiana, gar­Director: Terry George 
baekdrop for the nered deserved 
Writers: Keir Pearson and Terry George 
plot. Thanks to Oscar nomina­
Starring: Don Cheadle, Sophie
some vc~ry WPll­tions. 
Okonedo, Desmond Dube, Nick Nolte 
exPcutnd exposi­Nick Nolte 
and Joaquin Phoenix 
tion, thn audience is given a dear undnrstanding of' the conf'lict and the dif'f'eronees b11tween the two sides. "Jiotel Hwanda" avoids demonizing either side, instead focusing on Husosabagina and his struggle to pro­tnct his family and the people trapped in his hotol. which evnntually becomes a havmt for Hwandan rnfugees. 
This gives face and voice to the slaughtnr, which elaimed an unthink­able~ SOO,OOO livns over 100 days. The plot then revolves around Husesabagina's political and personal mannuvering to try to protect his family and tho occupants of his hotel. 
The film is anchored by Don Cheadle's 
rounds out the 
cast -playing a good guy, for once -as a helpless, but sympathetic, United Nations colonel and Joaquin Phoenix as a cynical reporter. 
It's difficult for a film like "Hotel Hwanda" to avoid didacticism, but thankfully it never becomes mired in excessive preaching. There is some over-dramatization of events and the presentation often has the subtlety of a brick through a window, but the sledge­hammer of the film's emotional gamut is efl'ective nonetheless. 
Audiences may be horrified at the eal­lous indeeision of the United Nations, but Phoenix's reporter, who provides 


Diesel's talent fails to pacify average film 
By MARK BEMENDERFER Scene Critic 

I Jollywood senms to be getting stale. At least that's the condusion some will gathc~r f'rorn watching "The Pacifier," action star Yin Diesel's attempt at a l>isrwy eonwdy. Cute, family-oriented and utterly prmJictablo, "The Pacifier" is good f'or some, but most would lind tlwrnselvns bored whilo watching it. 
Diesel plays Shane Wolfe, a disgraced Navy S.E.A.L. agent who is assigned tlw unfortunate task of protecting tho Plummer family 
tries to treat the problems he enc(mn­ters in a way similar to how he was trained, i.e. in a military discipline fashion. Logically, that doesn't work, and he begins to lighten up. Eventually, the kids grow to love him and vice versa. 
The plot doesn't need to be delved into too deeply, as it really isn't that original. Movies like "Kindergarten Cop" have explored the comedy in this situation before, to better effect in most scenarios. Any movie that places a tough guy into a family role typically has many of the same moments, and 
"The Pacifier" is 

whiln trying to no different.
The Pacifier
find a hidden Fans of' the film nxperinwnt. The 
will probably family is under come from two attack from the main camps. The enemies of the first consists of Director: Adam Shankman
doceased father, those looking for 
Writers: Thomas Lennon and Ben
and only Diesel light family fare,
Garant

stands in the way. which this is. The 
Starring: Yin Diesel, Lauren Graham,
That is, if' the fam­second consists 
Brad Garrett and Tate Donovan 
of people who

ily will let him. 
The family under watch features children of all ages, from adolescents to infants. The audience is treated to all the obvious humor associated with the "unwilling babysitter" genre of films. Diesel is foreed to deal with the problems of a teenager one second, and the next finds himself changing an infant's dia­per. Of course, the children do not wel­come Diesel with open arms. They make life difficult for him at the begin­ning, but as the film progresses they warm up to him -nothing new here. 
Like other films in this genre, Diesel 
watch the Disney channel in their free time. Both of these groups would probably love this film. "The Pacifier" knows its core audience and doesn't do too bad of a job playing to it. However, it doesn't quite make the leap to a film with appeal for all ages. 
Hard-core Diesel fans may also get some laughs from this light-hearted film. lie does add some charisma to the role and does a decent job acting with children. But he's still no Schwarzenegger. 
Diesel has pretty much only been cast much of the exposition, makes dear the delicate nature of the situation and the careless indifference of the First World. 

The film's refusal to euphemize the event and George's wise decision to concentrate on individual characters (rather than the genocide as a whole) brings greater focus and emotional impact. His directing is at worst unob­trusive and at best incendiary, as he guides through the film with an author­itative documentary feel. Only at the most dramatic moments of' the film do George's l'ilmic manipulates become truly apparent. 
"Hotel Hwanda" is an excellent, if harrowing, film that should be soon, if' only to understand what happened in Hwanda in 1994. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

I 

This movie is clearly aimed for fami­lies. If family films are one's primary preference, it's not a bad option to see "The Pacifier" compared to the other movies currently out in theatres. Of course, with "Robots" opening this weekend, there are some welcome alternatives. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
in one role in the past. Ever since his work in "Pitch Black," he's been tagged as primarily an action star. He has the build, the scowl and exudes a certain charisma -all qualities that propelled his star image. Casting him as Wolfe plays against his established screen character, considering his previous roles. However, this movie was origi­nally made with Jackie Chan in mind, and Diesel doesn't have the charisma that Chan does. 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 15, 2005 
NBA 

Heat blows out Bucks 110-71 as Wade scores 29 
It wa,s the largest victory mar­

Wizards get first­
gin of the season for Miami (49­

ever sweep of Lakers 16). which has won a league­best nine straight overall and 13 in a row at home. Phoenix 
Associated Press and San Antonio are both 48­
MIAMI -Securing the top 15. San Antonio routed New seed in the Eastern Conference Orleans on Monday night, and playoffs appears to be little Phoenix was idle. more than a formality. Now, The Heat aren't just beating Dwyane Wade and the Miami teams these days -they're Heat are focused on the best turning games into routs. Miami record in the NBA. has held leads of at least 17 
Wade scored 29 points on 10-points in each of its last eight of-12 shooting in just 26 min­games, and has won its last utes, Shaquille O'Neal added 21 nine by an average of 17.6 points and the Heat led by as points. many as 40 points in their 11 0-Damon Jones added 15 points 
71 victory over the Milwaukee for Miami, which won its three Bucks on Monday night-a win previous meetings with that moved Miami into a virtual Milwaukee this season by an tie with Phoenix and San average of merely 4.3 points. Antonio for the league's top Eddie Jones had 10 for the overall record. Heat, 8 1/2 games ahead of 
-

CLASSIFIEDS 

Detroit in the East race. 
Michael Redd had 14 points for Milwaukee, which lost for the eighth time in its last 10 road games. Marcus Fizer added 11 for the Bucks. 
The Heat have held six of their last seven opponents to 90 points or less; Milwaukee shot just 32.1 percent, while the Heat shot 55.4 percent. 
Miami led 21-19 late in the first quarter, before pulling away with a 17-7 run over a 5­minute stretch. Wade had 11 of Miami's points during the burst, including a three-point play and a jumper a 27-second span to give the 
Pistons 114, Hawks 108, OT 
Stopping the other team was a bit of a problem for one of the NBA's best defensive teams. 
Tayshaun Prince scored a career-high 31 points and the Pistons bounced back from the lowest-scoring game in fran­chise history, beating the Atlanta Hawks 114-108 in over­time Monday night. 
Rasheed Wallace scored a season-best 28 points for the Pistons, who shot nearly 52 percent from the field. The Hawks lost for the 15th time in 16 games despite AI Harrington's season-high 37 points. 
Atlanta shot better than 49 percent and far eclipsed the normal output against the Pistons, who were allowing just 
88.8 points a game _ second in the league to San Antonio. Tom Gugliotta hit a 3-pointer for the Hawks with 6.4 seconds left in the fourth quarter to send the game to overtime. 
"They were making shots and we were making shots,'' Prince said. "We didn't establish our defense at the beginning of the game. We didn't defend like we should have." 
Just one night earlier, the Pistons failed to make a field goal in the fourth quarter but held on for a 64-62 victory over Utah. It was the lowest-scoring game for each franchise, and the teams combined for an record-low 18 points in the linal period. 
The Pistons, who snapped a four-game road losing streak, rebounded with their second­most points this season, eclipsed only by 117-116 victory over Charlotte in late November that went to double overtime. 
"We just made some shots early on," Prince said. "We did­n't play well last night, but we had an idea the shots were going to fall tonight." 
Detroit played without coach Larry Brown, who underwent additional surgery Monday related to a November hip oper­ation. He missed six games for the first procedure and isn't sure how long he will be out this time. 

Assistant coach Gar Heard ran the team in place of Brown. 
"He'll be in the hospital a cou­ple of more days," Heard said. "We'll know something more (Tuesday)." 
The Hawks trailed by as many as 12 before dominating the third quarter. They outscored the Pistons 31-17, sinking 15 of 20 shots from the field to take a 77-72 lead to the fourth. 
"AI had a great game," Gugliotta said. "We executed pretty well and got the shots we wanted, so some good things came out of it." 
Detroit rebounded quickly, beginning the fourth with a 17­4 spurt. Wallace scored nine of the first 11 points, then Richard Hamilton capped the run by converting back-to-back three­point plays. 
But the hapless Hawks rallied again. After Hamilton hit a cou­ple of free throws with 15.3 seconds remaining to make it 100-97, Gugliotta got open at the top of the key and swished the 3. 
Hamilton had a chance to win it, but his pull-up jumper bounced off the rim and the Pistons couldn't tip home the rebound. 
Detroit controlled the over­time. Chauncey Billups hit a crucial 3-pointer with 2:03 remaining to make it 108-104, the shot made possible by a couple of offensive rebounds. 
Harrington fouled out on the Hawks' next possession, receiv­ing a standing ovation as he walked slowly to the bench. 
Grizzlies 104, Trail Blazers 83 
Lorenzen Wright had 19 points and nine rebounds for Memphis, which dropped an 80-66 decision to the Trail Blazers on Saturday in Portland. 
Miller was 8-of-12 from the field, including 3-of-6 shooting from 3-point range, as he came a point of matching his season best of 28 points. 
The Grizzlies were never in trouble after a 9-2 run in the third quarter have them a 21­point lead at 70-49. Memphis was up by 23 points six times in the final period, the first time at 94-71 at 6:27 on a 3-pointer by Miller. 
Earl Watson added 16 points and seven assists for the Grizzlies. He played with a mouthpiece, which he kept pushing in and out, because of a smack in the face from the back of an opponent's head late in Saturday's game in Portland. 
Shane Battier had 14 points for Memphis, and Brian Cardinal had 12. 
Damon Stoudamire led Portland with 20 points. Shareef Abdur-Rahim added 14, Travis Outlaw had 12 and Sebastian Telfair and Maurice Baker had 11 each. 
Joel Przybilla had 10 points and 14 rebounds for the Trail Blazers. Wizards 95, Lakers 81 
For the first time in franchise history, the Washington Wizards have a season sweep of the Los Angeles Lakers. 
They finished it off without All-Star forward Antawn Jamison, who left in the first quarter with a knee injury that is looking worse every day. They did it even though Gilbert Arenas was hobbling with a sore knee. 
They did it riding Larry Hughes' 21 points and 12 rebounds, plus 21 points from Arenas, and by dominating the lane against a Lakers team that didn't have much fight. The Wizards built a double digit lead in the second quarter and never looked back in Monday night's 95-81 victory. 
"It's one we definitely wanted, one we definitely needed," Hughes said. 
The Wizards won the other meeting 120-116 in overtime in Los Angeles on Dec. 17, giving Washington its first season sweep since the teams first met in 1961. By contrast, the Lakers have swept the Wizards 10 times over the decades. 
Although Jamison was gone, big men Brendan Haywood (16 points), Etan Thomas (8) and Jared Jeffries (9) found the pickings easy inside. The trio combined to make 14 of 18 shots as the Wizards outscored the Lakers 44-20 in the paint. 
"Without Antawn, those guys played well. Antawn was hold­ing those guys back all year," coach Eddie Jordan said joking­ly. 
Then he added: "When we talk about the proverbial step­up -everyone has to step up 
that's  what  happened  
tonight."  
They'll have to  keep it up.  

Jordan didn't go into detail, but he made it sound as if Jamison could miss a few games and will be limited for the rest of the season. 
Jamison has a sore knee and back from a season of playing the more physical power for­ward position, and he recently had a streak of 386 consecutive games come to an end. 
He limped badly through the first quarter and sat down for good after playing just eight minutes. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
Summer Camp Counselor for chil­
dren w/disabilities. 
Must have strong work ethic and be interested in making a difference in the life of a child. $7-$11 hr., 35 hr/wk, summer only. 
6 sites in Summit County, Ohio. Must enjoy outdoor activities. 
Visit www.akroncyo.org to download an application from the Job Opportunities link. EOE Catholic family offering full time summer childcare opportunity; 4 children ages 6 to 12; Scottsdale Mall area; 7:30 am to 4:30 pm; wages negotiable; non smoker; own transportation needed. Call Maureen 360-1738. 
FoR RENT 
COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINIUMS AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 SCHOOL YEAR.TWO BEDROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY 235-7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 
19237 Cleveland 7 bdrm -52950 Marks 5 bdrm -202 E. Cripe 4 bdrm -222 E. Willow 3 bdrm.2773097 
Now is the time to reserve your house for 06-07. Call233-9947 or go to www.ander­sonndrentals.com 
Clean homes close to ND. 2-8 bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask about FREE student rent program. Blue & Gold Homes (574}250-7653. 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 
S.B. AVE -605 ST. PETER CALL 532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM 

6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER MONTH + DEP. STAFF AND FAC­ULTY ONLY. 
CALL BRUCE 876-3537. 
2-3 bdrm houses avail. now and 05­
06. Close to ND. Call 276-2333. Omni Properties 
KNOLLWOOD HOME FOR RENT, 4BD,2.5 BATH,$1650. 858-722-4469. 
CORBY ST. HOUSE 4 RENT. MAY­JULY. CALL 284-5223. 

FoR SALE 

OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE. 4 rm, 2 bath. For details fimbel.1 @nd.edu or 574-261-0900. 


PERSONAL 

Left on vacation, returned on proba­lion 
I wear the ring for the kids 
Mexican Gasoline Seth is the man, the myth, the legend 
AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH 
I think that's fantastic 
Mama's boy 
Emmitt Smith ...Little Giants ... John Madden...The Replacements...John Favreau ... Rudy ...Vince Vaughn...Oid Schooi. ..Snoop Dogg ... Training Day ... Denzel Washington ... Philadelphia ... Tom Hanks ... Forrest Gump... Sally Field ... Homeward Bound 2 ... AI Michaels ... Jerry McGuire ... Troy Aikman 

Tuesday, March 15, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Tennessee fires Peterson 
Associated Press 
KNOXVII.Lli, Tenn. -Buzz I'Pterson was fin~d Monday as TPnrwssee's basketball coach af't.er tho Voluntnors l'ailod to makn tho NCAA tournanwnt during h is l'o u r years at the school. 
The Vols linislwd 14-17 ovorall and 6-10 in tho Southnastorn Conference this season al'tnr los­ing to Knntucky in the second round ol' tlw leaguo tournamnnt. It was Pntnrson 's second losing st~ason in Knoxville, lnaving him with a (, 1-59 rtieord in his four ynars. 
"Buzz has many of the chanu:­tPristks wn havn looked for in a coarh, but WP worn fi»und lack­ing in the arna ol' wins and loss­es in a busirwss that mnasuros its success according to such JHtranwters," athletk director Mike llamilton said at a news t:onftwenco Monday. 
llamilton inl'ornwd Peterson ol' his docision Sunday evening. l'ntnrson soenwd somewhat sur­prisnd but handled the news in a "first-class" manner, Hamilton said. 
l'nterson did not immediately r·nturn calls seeking comment. 

With tho return of every starter from last year, Tennessee hoped to roach the NCAAs for tlw first time undnr Petorson this season. 
l'otnrson, whose contract is worth $7(,9,500 a ynar aMd runs through the 2008-09 season, was tho fourth coach at Tennessee since Don DoVoe was fired in 1989. 
l'ntnrson, 41, was hired in April 2001 to roplaee Jerry Green, who was ousted after taking the Vols to the NCAA tournanwnt four straight sea­sons. Tho Peterson buyout will Tenrwssee nearly $1.4 million, and tlw univnrsity still owes Groen a final payment of his buyout next January. 
Initially, there was excitement around the prospect of "Buzzball" taking off under a eoaeh embraced by the fans. 
Peterson met with Hamilton and university president John Petersen Feb. 28, and Hamilton said then he would announcn a decision on tlw coach after tho season. 
In tho following weeks, Hamilton was contacted by Peterson supporters, including former star Tennessee athletns Peyton Manning and Todd Helton, Lady Yols coach Pat Summitt, North Carolina eoach Hoy Williams and Peterson's eol­lege eoaeh, Dean Smith. 
Football coach Phillip FulnH~r said he spoke with Peterson on Monday. 
"Everybody in this profession knows how volatile it can bo and Buzz certainly understood that," Fulmer said. 
Hamilton declined to specify a timetable for making a hiro, say­ing the search will take as long as needed to l'ind the right eoach. 
Peterson came to Tennessee alter one season at Tulsa, where he went 26-11 and won the NIT. 


GREGORIAN CHANT FOR PASSION SUNDAY 


SCHOLA MUSICORUM 
1357 Ironwood Drive, South Bend . IN 574-289-5080 Atriasalon.com 
UNIVERSITY 01' NOTRE DAMIO DEPARTMENT Of MUSIC PRE'SIONTS 




hrttb:::MUSIQVE 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
UIWAR:TMI!:?o.""'T Of Mt"!\U: 

9:30P.M. WEDNESDAY. MARCH 16. 2005 
lti:YlS ORGAN AND CHORAl HALL M"Ril' I' 11F.KAill'OIO ON ITR I'Oll THf l'l'IHORMING AI\ I\ 
I'RI f. ANIJ 01'1 N I<' 1'1·11. I'IIBUC I'I<'K HS IHQ)III\fl) I'H<JNt 574·<di·2XOO FOR TICKHS 
ADEBARTOLO 
~ PERfOI!M!NGARTS CENTER 
MLB 

Prior sidelined due to right elbow pain 

.. 
said that in addition to rnst, Prior is taking anti-inflamma­MESA, Ariz. -Cubs aee tory medieation and the Cuhs 
Associated Press 

...
Mark Prior will bo out indefi­would sen how he rosponds to nitely because of inflammation tho rest and nwdieation bnforn in his right ~!bow, the latest dotnrmining whon hn will injury to one of Chicago's star begin throwing again. pitchers. "I was going through sonw 
Kerry Wood, slatod to start of my normal exercises aft11r I on opening day, is sidelined pitch, and I told Mark, with bursitis in his right 'Sonwthing doesn't f'nol right shoulder. back lwrn, not rwn~ssari ly 
Cubs trainer Mark O'Neal unusual, but just diiTnront,"' said Monday the 24-year-old Prior said. "As tho day wont Prior has some on, it just got a inflammation in littlo bit still'nr. the elbow joint "I eamn in thn
"There is no
and a little irrita­noxt morning tion to tho ulnar damage to the and told thmn, nerve. nerve. and that's when 
Prior missed we deeidnd to the first two g11t everything
Jim Hendry k d ..
months of 1 e out,
last ewe season because Cubs general manager hn said. 
of right Achilles' tendinitis and stiffness in his right elbow. Last July, he missed a start because of discomfort in the elbow. But Prior and O'Neal both said the current injury is not related to last year's prob­lem. 
"It's different," Prior said. "It's not the same injury." 
Prior made his Cactus League debut Thursday, when he threw three innings against the Seattle Mariners in Peoria. He said Monday that while doing some routine postgame exercises afterward, he felt discomfort in the elbow. 
Cubs general manager Jim Hendry said Prior saw elbow specialist Dr. Lewis Yocum last weekend and had a precau­tionary MHI on Sunday. 
"There is no damage to the nerve," Hendry said. "The lig­ament remains exactly the same from the MIU last year." 
Prior was supposed to pitch Tuesday against Kansas City but will miss that start. O'Neal 
Prior is seh­

oduled to make his first start on April 5 at Arizona, the Cubs' second game of the season. 
Wood played catch on l'lat ground Monday. testing his right shoulder. lin was not available for comment, but pitching coach Larry Rothschild said Wood felt finn, and if he feels well Tuesday morning he might play eatch again. 
Hothschild said it's possible Wood could throw off a mound on Wednesday. 
Wood took himself out of last Wednesday's start against Texas after complaining of tightness in the shoulder. The Cubs sent him back to Chicago the next day for an MHI. The MHI and a doctor's exam revealed bursitis and inflam­mation around the rotator-cull' musdes, the Cubs said. 
Hothschild said he expects both pitdwrs to bo ready to make their first start of the regular s1mson. 
Turtle Creek-The Place to be at N I)! 

.t-~..
~ 

Welcome to Paradise! 
• 
Pre-leasing for the 2005-2006 school year 

•Studios 
and 1 and 2 bedroom apartments (574)272-8124 


ask Sherry for detai Is www.ai mco.com 



NCAA Men's ··Division l Tennis Ranklngs. 
team 
1 Baylor 2 Virginia 3 Illinois 4 Mississippi 
.5 Duke 
6 Georgia 
7 Aorida 
8 UCLA .. 
9 Southern · 

10 ·OJdahomaState .•...•• 
11 Stanford 
12 TeasA&M 
13 OhiO State. 
14 Washington 
15 Harvard 
16 Texas 
17 LSU 
18 NOTRE DAME 
19 Pepperdiile 
20 Auburn 
21 Tennessee 
22 TCU 
23 Wake Forest 
24 Florida State 25 Tulane 

NCAA Women's Division I Tennis Rankings 
.... 
team 
1 Stanford 2 Florida 

3 Georgia 4 Northwestern 5 _Vanderbilt 6 Kentutky 7 WiUiam and Maey 8 Duke 9 Miami (florida) 
10 UCLA 11 North Carolina 12 Washington 13 Southern Cal 14 Harvard 15 Texas 16 california 17 Georgia Tech 18 Baylor 19 Tulane 20 TCU 21 Clemson 22 NOTRE DAME 
23 Tennessee 
24 BYU 25 San Diego State 

Fencing Coaches' Association Rankings 
Women's Mens 
1 NOTRE DAME 1 ·Ohio State 2 Ohio State 2 PennState 3 Penn State 3 St. John's (NY) 4 Harvard 4 NOTREDAME 5 Columbia 5 Harvard 5 Northwestern 6 Columbia 7 Penn 7 Princeton 8 Princeton 8 NYU 9 StJohn's {NY) 9 Penn 10 Duke 10 Air Force 
around the dial 
MLB SPRING TRAINING Angels at White Sox, 3:05 p.m, ESPN NBA Lakers at 76ers, 7 p.m, Comcast SuperSonics at Bulls, 8:30 p.m, Comcast Magic at Kings, 10 p.m, Comcast MEN'S BASKETBALL NCAA Oakland at Alabama A&M, 7 p.m, ESPN2 MEN'S BASKETBALL NIT Holy Cross at Notre Dame, 7 p.m, ESPN2 DePaul at Missouri, 9 p.m, ESPN 

OUND THE NATION 
page 18 ColvtPILED fROlv1 THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, March 15, 2005 
MLB· 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Major League Baseball gave a congressional committee about 400 pages of docu­ments on drug testing and said commissioner Bud Selig was willing to testify at Thursday's hearing on steroid use. 
Lawyers for Jason Giambi, Frank Thomas and Rafael Palmeiro asked the committee to withdraw subpoenas for their clients, and lawyers for players and the com­missioner's office contin­ued to negotiate with committee staff Monday, trying to narrow the scope of questioning. Bob DuPuy, baseball's chief operating officer, and Rob Manfred, the executive vice president in charge of labor relations, were in Washington to meet with the committee staff. 

Just three days before the hearing, it remained unclear whether Mark McGwire, Giambi, Curt Schilling and other cur­rent and former stars would testify before the House Government Reform Committee. 
Former AL MVP Jose Canseco and Schilling are the only players who have said they are willing to appear in Washington on Thursday. Selig, who initially offered a top aide as a substitute, reversed course Monday and offered to appear. 
"I am proud of the progress baseball has made on the subject of steroids and perform­ance-enhancing drugs and look forward to shar­ing this information with the committee," he said in a statement. "The players stepped up this past January for an even stricter drug policy beginning this season demonstrating that all of us in baseball are com­mitted to reaching zero tolerance." 
Sammy Sosa, Thomas and Palmeiro were sub­poenaed last week along with Canseco, whose recent book alleged sev­eral top players used 
steroids. Union head Donald Fehr also was summoned along with Manfred, baseball execu­tive vice president Sandy Alderson and San Diego general manager Kflvin Towers. 
Canseco has asked for immunity in order to speak more freely. The committee consulted the Justice Department but didn't expect to hear back until Tuesday Pvening, according to Canseco's lawyer, Robert Saunooke. 
Saunooke said players were unsure whflther the committee had power to grant immunity from both federal and state prose­cution. 
IN BRIEF Browns release third No. I 
pick since 1999 
Cleveland released defensive end Courtney Brown on Monday, yet another former first-round pick who failed to make it with the team. 
Brown, the first overall pick in 2000, was due to receive a $2.5 mil­lion roster bonus Tuesday. With Brown out, the first three No. 1 picks that Cleveland took after it returned to the league in 1999 are gone. 
He joins quarterback Tim Couch, the first overall pick in 1999, and defensive tackle Gerard Warren, No. 3 overall in 2001, as ex-Browns. Couch was released last June and Warren was traded to Denver on March 2 for a fourth-round draft pick. 
The team also has given running back William Green, its first-round pick in 2002, permission to seek a trade. 
Brown, who has been troubled by injuries throughout his career, could be back for less money. 

Chaney returns to Temple
bench lor NIT 
PHILADELPHIA -Temple has been invited back to the postseason -and John Chaney is going along. 
Chaney will be back coaching in the NIT after a three-week suspen­sion for sending a seldom-used big man onto the floor to commit hard fouls that left Saint Joseph's senior John Bryant with a broken arm. 
The 73-year-old Chaney first sus­pended himself for one game before the school extended the punishment to three games after the extent of Bryant's injury was discovered. The Hall of Fame coach then banned himself from the sideline for the Atlantic 10 tournament. · 
Temple athletic director Bill Bradshaw said the coach's return shouldn't be a surprise because the suspension only extended to the end of the A-10 tournament. He declined to discuss any conditions of Chaney's return. 
The school announced Monday that Chaney would be on the bench when the Owls (16-13) play at Virginia Tech (15-13) in a first-round game Tuesday night. Illinois remains No. I for 
15th straight week Illinois won the poll. Now it's a matter of winning the tournament. 
The Illini were No. 1 for the 15th straight week Monday-and unani­mous, too -in the final Associated Press college basketball poll of the season. 
Kansas was the last to do it, in 1996-97, and the Jayhawks didn't even make the Final Four. Kansas also reigned for thfl last 15 weeks of the season and was the last unani­mous No. 1 in the final poll but lost to eventual champion Arizona in the third round of the NCAA tournament. 
And last year's final No. 1, Stanford, lost to Alabama in the sec­ond round of the NCAAs. Illinois (32­
1) had been a unanimous No. 1 for five straight weeks until its first loss of the season. 

Tuesday, March 15, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
Baseball 
continued from page 28 

stn~ak extPnd to five games. Matt l~dwards hammered a grand-slam in thn bottom of the nighth to eut thn UTSA lnad in half at X-4, but the Hoadrunners shut down tho threatening Irish ofTensn in the ninth for a 'J-4 win. Hight-han­dnr Jess Stewart (1-1) took the loss. 
J)pspite tlw opPning three losses of spring hrnak. Mainieri rnmairwd uplwat. 
"''m not discouraged. We just rwnd l.o start playing a little hit bettor," he said. "It's early in the year, and I think our best days arn ahead of us; thern's no question about that. We're going to start pitching better." 
After the lirst round loss, the bPlter days began. 
The Irish defnatnd Southwest Missouri State 6-4, snapping the l'ive-game losing streak. Notrn Dame used a sharp per­formance· from right-hander .lefT Samardzija (2-0l and home runs from Edwards and Craig Cooper. Edwards' eighth-inning shot to left-field was his fourth round-tripper of the season. 
Friday the .Irish took thn field against Oral Hoberts for the right l.o play in the champi-



FREE 

onship game. The Irish wasted an early 4-1 lead. Thornton yielded live runs on eight hits, taking his second loss of the young season. Usual third base­man Boss Brezovsky started in loft field and went 3-5 on the day, while centerfielder Alex Nottey f'inished 3-4. Also in a new spot at Dll, Steve Andres smashed his second homer of the year. 
"We're going to have to just sec how each day goes; we'll put the lineup out there that we think has the best cham~e to be succt1ssful," Mainiori said. 
In the consolation rematch between Southwest Missouri Statn and Notre Dame, thn Irish won 12-11. With an 11-1 lead the Irish looked poised to sweep SMS in tho tourney, but the Boars fought back with a six-run l'if'th and four more runs in the final four innings. Andres, back in left l'ield, played an errorless game. lie contributed on tho offensive side as well with a 2-3 day and his third homo run of tho sea­son. For tho first time this sea­son, Andres' entire team played error-free baseball. Making his f'irst careor start at Dll. Tony Langford sparked tho Irish with a 3-4 day at the plato. 
"I was really proud of' Tony Langford. lie waited his turn, and we put him in a game to pitch, and he really challnnged tho hitters. And we put him in another gamn to pitch hn really challenged the hitters again. And we put him in to Dll on the final day, and I thought he real­ly sparked our team," Mainieri said. 
Another jumpstart for the Irish, Manship hurled a first­inning shutout as he was once again limited to one inning ­easing his way back into the lineup after the elbow surgery. 
"The first day he pitched, it was his first time in a college baseball game, and it was like Murphy's Law -everything that could go wrong did go wrong. It was nice that the sec-


Practice Test! 
LSAT GMAT GRE MCAT' 
Did you miss the first free practice test? Join us for another one in Marchi 
Saturday, March 19th, 2005 
LSAT at Notre Dame MCAT at Notre Dame GMAT at Kaplan Center GRE at Kaplan Center 
Pre-registration is recommended. 
Call or visit us online today to register! 

KAPLAN 
Test Prep and Admissions 
1-800-KAP-TEST ___, kaptest.com 
•Test mtmtt!l. are reglshlrttd trademarks ol tt1e1r respective owners. 


ond time he pitched hn had a Thorn's pionty of season IPft, good inning, and I thought lw no rnason to panic and plnnty threw the ball really wnll," of work to do. ... Mainieri said. "I think we did a lot of good 
Catcher Sean Gaston also things off'nnsivnly and defnn­connected for throe hits. sively, but wo just nnml to con­
Despite the 6-7 record aftnr a tinuo to improvP thnn~. I feel grueling 13 game good about thn stretch in Florida, futuro for our Arizona and Texas, "/feel good about team," MainiMi Mainieri takes an said.
the future for our
optimistic outlook "It's funny that
team."
from the first four every year that weeks or the sea-l'vn been here son. Paul Malnlerl we've becomn a "Nothing good mueh bettor
Irish coach 
comes out of los­team in April ing. We wish our than wn worn in record was a lot March and better than it is right now, but February, and I nxpoct that tho this is not all that atypical of same thing will happen this our program. A couple of years year. We start making our run in my years here, we've gotten in late Mareh and during the off to good starts, but most of month of April." the years this is pretty typical Tlw Irish wi II try to start a of where we'd be," Mainicri winning streak whnn they lwad said. to Evansville, Indiana for 
"We play tough teams early in games against Northern the year because we feel that's Illinois, Evansville and South how you make your team bet­Dakota Statn later this week. ter, even though the success 
Contact Tom Dorwart at
early in the year may not be 
tdorwart@nd.edu
extraordinary." 

Tuesday, March 15, 2005 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 

Spring break not friendly to Irish 
By MATT PUGLISI Associate Sports Editor 
Last spring break, Notre Dame (1-4) had arguably its best week in program history, rattling off a trio of victories -including road wins over No. 19 Cornell, No. 2 Duke and No. 6 James Madison -en route to a No. 2 overall ranking. 
This year, the Irish had one of .. their worst. 
After an 18-11 home loss March 3 to No. 3 Northwestern dropped the Irish to 1-1 on the year, Notre Dame hit the road for Hs annual spring break trip down the East coast. Losses to then­unranked Cornell, Vanderbilt and James Madison sent the Irish home empty-handed. 
"It certainly was not what we expected by any stretch of the imagination," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "Cornell, Vanderbilt and James Madison are all teams that we beat last year, and I think that always plays into it, and Vanderbilt is a huge rivalry for us. We were very disappointed with the outcomes." 
While a number of factors con­tributed to the fruitless trip, an injury to starting midfielder 
"" Megan Murphy loomed particu­larly large. "The results were the same, but each game was different," Coyne said. "[Murphy] is out with a knee injury, and we don't know the results yet so having her out of the starting lineup was a difficult adjustment." Comell11, Notre Dame 8 Finding itself trailing 6-2 at the half, Notre Dame was never able to answer the early Cornell onslaught as the Irish started off the trip on the wrong foot March 6 with an 11-8 defeat at the hands of the host Big Red. Midfielder Kaki Orr paced the Irish attack, netting a pair of goals on an afternoon that saw Notre Dame muster a meager 16 shots on goal -the Big Red gen­nrated 18 in the first half alone. While the Irish would pull with­in three goals at 8-5 after k1.llies by defender Lena Zentgraf and midfielder Caitlin McKinney with just over 22 minutes left to play, the three-goal deficit was as close as the Irish would come to catch­ing Cornell before a pair of goals 
by midfielder Lindsay Shaffer and attack Jackie Bowers in the game's closing minutes once again brought the Irish within three at 11-8. 
The upset to then-unranked Cornell had more severe conse­quences than just knocking Notre Dame under the .500 mark at 1-2 -for the first time since April 24, 2001, the Irish found themselves unranked in the most recent Intercollegiate Women's Lacrosse Coaches' Association (IWLCA) national rankings. 
Vanderbilt 10, Notre Dame 9 
(OT) 
Although the March 6 loss to the Big Red stripped the Irish of their national ranking, last Wednesday's loss to Vanderbilt may have been the most painful of the trio. 
Squandering a late second-half lead only to fight back and tie the score at 9-9 with just over five minutes left on the clock, the Irish eventually fell in a 10-9 overtime heartbreaker to the Commodores in Nashville, Tenn. 
With Notre Dame leading by the slimmest of margins 8-7 and 11 minutes left in the game, Commodore Meg Spies knotted the contest on a free position shot before Ashley Paschall put Vanderbilt in front 9-8 four min­utes later. 
Refusing to give up, McKinney buried her second goal of the game 90 seconds later to even the score. 
The see-saw battle would remain locked at 9-9 until Vanderbilt's Jennifer Tapscott gave the Commodores a hard­fought win 2:22 into the sudden­death overtime period. 
Once again, the Irish found themselves behind early as Vanderbilt poured in five of the game's first six goals to jump out to a quick 5-1 advantage after 20 minutes of play. 
However, unlike the Cornell contest where the Irish were never able to get back in the game, Notre Dame responded. 
-once it got settled, I think we played well enough to win," Coyne said. "But the attack is not doing its job." 
James Madison 10, Notre Dame 
5 
After topping the host Dukes 9­7 to conclude last season's head­turning spring break trip, the Irish were unable to replicate the feat this year, falling to No. 16 James Madison 10-5 Sunday afternoon in Harrisonburg, Va. and stretching their losing streak to four games. 
For a third consecutive spring break game, the Irish were slow out of the gates, allowing the Dukes to post the contest's first three goals. 
While goals by Orr and Fox brought Notre Dame back within a single tally midway through the first half, James Madison eventu­ally ran away with the contest, netting five consecutive scores, including four before half time to build a 7-2 advantage and effec­tively put the game out of reach. 
The James Madison lead would grow to 10-3 until attack Mary McGrath and Shaffer found the back of the net at the 23:23 and 
26:31 marks of the second half, respectively. 
"In each game, I think the most common denominator is that we get down early," Coyne said. "We make a good effort at coming back like we outscored Cornell in the second half and we took the lead against Vanderbilt, but you cant get down by so many and come back against good teams." 
Following the disappointing 0-3 road trip, the Irish have a much­needed nine-day rest before returning to action next Tuesday when California visits for an after­noon tilt on Moose Krause Field. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

MEN'S LACROSSE 

Kemp shines.in 
1st career start 
period when Morrison tossed in his third goal of the half to put the Irish ahead 4-1. 
Tar Heel All-American Jed Prossner scored his only goal with just over eight minutes left in the game, dosing the gap to 6-5. 
However, Irish senior captain Brian Giordano collected two late goal<> to solidify the victory. 
The game, showcasing two of the top programs in collegiate lacrosse, wa<> played in front of7,882 specta­tors and was televised by College Sports TY. 
"The whole TV thing, that just made it that much more interest­ing," Kemp said. 
Comell11, Notre Dame 10 
Notre Dame sprinted out to a 6-3 lead early on against Cornell in a March 6 game in Ithaca, New York. The Big Red then scored seven consecutive goals and held on for the victory. 
Morrison led the Irish with three goals. The third score of his hat trick came as Notre Dame trailed by two goals with 44 seconds remaining. Morrison took a pass from Walsh, took a shot and the lead was cut to one. But the Irish were not able to convert in the final second<>. 
Trailing 10-6 midway through the third period, Ryan scored two goal<> less than two minutes apart to cut the lead in half. 
Sensing an Irish comeback, Cornell took control of the game and drained the clock for over three minutes. Big Red sophomore David Mitchell then hurled the win­ning goal -and the first of his career-into the back of the net. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
Coming into Saturday's matchup against No. 10 North Carolina, Notre Dame had dropped nine straight games against top-1 0 opponents. Apparently, the Irish could have used a player like Joey Kemp. 
The freshman goaltender played like a veteran in his first career start, making 13 saves to lead the No. 14 Irish past the Tar Heels 9-7 at the "First 4" Invitational in Carson, Calif. 
"It was a big game," Kemp said. "The defense played really well. Everyone just did their job." 
Notre Dame (2-1) entered the second period leading 3-1 after grabbing 14 out of 15 ground balls to start the game. Kemp blocked 65 percent of the shots he faced as the Irish avenged a 14-11 defeat at the hands of the Tar Heels last year. 
"I was a little nervous before the game started," Kemp said. "But after the first whistle I was fine." 
The victory came just one week after Notre Dame lost 11-10 to Cornell on the road. 
"It was big to get the win [over North Carolina]," Kemp said. "We let up at the half against Cornell but we played hard the whole game thi<> time." 
Irish junior Pat Walsh lived up to his All-American status as he led the Irish with five points against the Tar Heels. His four assists and one goal complemented hat tricks from Jim Morrison and Michael Podgajny. 
Matt Ryan chipped in a career­high three assists, the biggest com­ing midway through the second 
Midfielder Brittany Fox scored Why spend the winter months in South the first of her three goals with just over 10 minutes remaining in Bend when you could be studying in__. the first half to kick a streak that saw the Irish net four of the game's next five goals to pull within a tally at 6-5 by the half­
Athens

time. 
Berlin Pueblo
"The defense against Vanderbilt 


Brazil 
Santiago 
Stz~lene (Sizzlelini"')­-On Tuesdays, get our specialty Cairo Shanghai for TWO for only $10.95!


S1zz in:: 

A sizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with Monterrey Tokyo a zesty tomato sauce accented
B~llini 

with peppers and onions on top 
Moscow Beijing
of a generous portion of spaghetti.


Tuesdays 
B;:,-Iefie (Bellini)­
A frosty, peach Italian work of art for $2! Application deadline for Spring '06 is 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)-May 1, 2005 Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelint Bellini Tuesdays! No foreign language requirements for Athens, Cairo or Tokyo 

P~ert 
ALlAN KITCHEN 

Visit International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building Applications Available www/nd.edu/..... intlstud 
~--------------------------------------------------------~------------­


Tuesday, March 15, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish get hot vvith 35­stroke vvin at St. Croix 
By KEVIN BRENNAN Spons Writer 
Things really lwat11d up f(u· thn Notrn Danw wonwn's golf' team during spring hrnak. Tlw Irish hnad!1d south to the Virgin Islands and won thn St. Croix Collegiat!1 (:lw.;sir hy an imprnssivn 3!'i shots. 
Notrn Damn Jinislwd tlw tourna­mPnt with a thrno day total of' 919. Tlw Irish dosnd strong, shooting a I!'i-ovnr par :m:~ in Sunday's final round. Tlw tmun rPmrdml scorns of :w7 and :HJI) on Friday and Saturday, rospndivnly. Xavinr, the tournanwnt's host school. linishod sPmnd with asmro of9!'i4. 
Coarh D!~bbio King oxpndod her lmun would rnhound !hun a disap­
pointing  I:Hh-placn  finish  in  
l'nhruary's  Cnntral  District  
<:hampionship.  

"Wn krww it was a SIHni-weak linld," King said. "Wo knew wo wnro tlw litvoritns, so WI~ had to sot sonw pnrsonal goals. Wo worn try­ing to shoot thrnn or fhur ovor or lwltnr oach day. Wn came pretty dosn to that." 
Ono member of tim Irish enrtain­ly fulfilled lwr goals on Sunday. Sophomorn Stacy Brown finished with a 12-ovnr par 22!-S lilr hnr lirst indnpondnnt collegiate tournarnnnt vietory. Brown's performance inspirnd and oxcitnd thn rest of tho Notrn I>anw team. 
"Shn has had a f(lw chances in tho pw;t, and sho roally did it this l.imn. so it WIL'> rnally exciting," jun­ior co-captain Katie Brophy said. "Plus, we all lovn Stacy so it was roally mL'>Y to be happy lbr her." 
Finishing right behind Brown was lwr elassrnate Noriko Nakazaki. Nakazaki recorded a second place scorn of 229, high­lightnd by a third round one-under­par 71. 
Freshman Jane Leo also con­tributed to tho Noirn Damn victory. On Saturday, Len shot an Irish tournamnnt-low 70. lwr lirst over l'.ollegiatn round under par. !lor pnrfbrmaneo, eomhinnd with thosn of Brown and Nakazaki, undor­scorml the strides bning made by tlw young mmnbnrs of tim Irish. 
"It's dnJinitnly nvident that coach has gottnn rnally stmng rncruiting dassns in tho past ynars," Brophy said. "Tiwy'ro not only good golfers, but they are really good tnammatos and peopln. It's really nasy to bn on a toam with them." 
While tlw tnam was ph~ased with its victory, the Irish also see room filr improvmnont. 
"A win is a win. Wn arn dolinitoly excited to tako that. But as far as our overall performance. we know that we can deJinitoly do better." Brophy said. 
King stressed the tnam needs to play with morn consistency and remain in a positive mental state. The coach hopes to build ofl' this vidory as Notre Dame's posl<>e<L''>On resume still needs a bit of padding. 
Tho Irish arn looking to securn a second straight trip to the NCM Central Hegional Championship, which will be held in Lubbock, Tflxas from May 5-7. The Big East conlhrnnee does not have an auto­matic bid, so the team needs to rncoivn an at-largn invitation. For this to happen, the Irish should fin­ish around tho top 40 in the rank­ings. Notro Dame currnntly sits on the bubble, with a ranking of 41 heading into the St. Croix Collegiate Classic. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 


Belles finish trip to Florida 3-4 
By PATRICK MCCABE 
Sports Writer 
The defending MIAA cham­pion Bolles opened thnir sea­son in Orlando and linishod 3­4 against a grueling slain of six tnams in six days. The Belles defeated King's College 9-0, Hochester 5-4 and Ursinus 9-0. 
But the team fell to Division 11-level St. Cloud State 4-5, Wittenberg 3-6, Carnegie­Mellon 0-9 and Wheaton 0-9. 
"We played somn really dif­ficult teams. But it was nice to be ehallenged and get some confideneo," junior eo-captain Kristen Palombo said. "Tho team performed r11ally well and really stepped up. Half' of the players wore on their first collegiate spring break, but. still did a good job and raised the team's expectations." 
Fellow senior captain Miranda Mikulyuk was proud of how well the team per­formed. 
"We played a few close matehes that we wish we could have pulled out," she said. "But we gelled as a team, and that's what it really was all about. I feel we didn't lose anything from our three seniors' graduation last year. This team plays just as strong." 
The captains agreed that the doubles teams played well, particularly the new No. 1 and No. 3 pairs of Kelly McDavitt and Caile Mulcahy and Tara O'Brien and Mary Beth Pavela. 

Be part of the pilgrimage! 
WORLD YOUTH 
DAY 
COLOGNE, GERMANY 

You. The Pope. 1,000,000 of your closest friends. Campus Ministry is taking a group. Get an application at wyd.nd.edu. Or stop by 114 COMO. 
Applications due Friday 3/18.
C-M 

Campus Ministry 
"The biggest thing was our doubles. Getting to know pnr­sonnel is important. Thny learned one another's strengths and got a bettor idea of' weak points," Mikylyuk said. "During the tournament, thoy worked out the kinks." 
Palombo agreed. 
"The doublns really improved," she said. "Tho tournament really helpnd us get into bettor shapn than WI~ thought we would be." 
Despite the team's rapid development and growth, tho Bolles can still improve. 
"We lost two matches 4-5. We need to lind another gear and dig dneper to win lhosn matches 5-4," Mikulyuk said. "Overall, we must continue to lind a deep1~r level." 
However, Palombo felt the team lost those matches because of extenuating cir­cumstances. 
"We had some bad luck. One girl caught the stomach llu and another blew out her knee. Others suffered from severe blisters," she said. 
Moreover, the Belles had to persevere through seven com­petitions in six days, requiring multiple matches per day from the players. 
Ultimately, the Belles had a productive week, acquiring confidence, fortitude and experience. 
"We beat the teams we were supposed to and won a couple of points against pre­mier competition," Palombo said. "It was a really good start to the season. It was nice to play match points. We now know the things we need to work and improve on for con­ference play. We don't have a match this week, so we have lots of time to do some drills and clean up some shots." 
The Belles' next challenge will be March 23 with a home contest against Olivet College. 
Contact Patrick McCabe at pmccabe@nd.edu 
NCAA BASKETBALL 




15and 16 seeds knovvrole 
Associated Press 
Fairleigh Dickinson r.oach Tom (;n~nn was going ovN potPntial NCAA l.ournanwnt matehups, daydrPaming about his Knights playing Wakn Fornst. Or Washington. Maybe nvnn North Carolina. 
DaydrPaming? Sounds morn like a nightmare. And IMh-sendnd FDU wound up Pvnn worse than Grnnn imag­inPd, f'aeing the biggest snnd of' them all, overall No. I Illinois 011 Thursday. 
"Hnalistically, wn know what a long shot it is," Grnnn said Monday. "It's a huge challnnge, to say the lnast." 
That's lifo for the NCAA tournament's little guys. Getting a bid gives small schools like Fairleigh Diekinson. Biehmond and Coppin State publicity and national exposure they'd never gnt otherwise. But tnams seeded 15th and 16th don't get much of' a chance to enjoy the limelight, usually gone by the nnd of the first round in a blowout to orw of' eollege basketball's power­houses. 
"I told our players earli1~r in the week ... we're going to havn to upsnt somebody," said Travis Ford, whose 15th-seeded Eastern Kentucky squad goes up against No. 2 send Kentucky on Thursday. 
"We're going to be an underdog, I ean guarantee you that." 
No 16th seed has nvnr beaten a No. 1 since tho tour­nament expandnd to 64 teams in 19S5, and only four No. 15s have upended a sec­ond seed. Hiehmond beat Syracuse 73-69 in 1991, Santa Clara upset Arizona 64-61 in 1993, Coppin State stunned South Carolina 7!-S­65 in 1997 and !Iampton sur­prised Iowa State in 20l)1. 

·~ ~~-M.l~~~tt\IW~It!~l:l~t~~-ofStS f--~~~)lt'db:;JtJ()I,JIM(IIH~.wwJIOttRaMIJIOt'IIJ..,~ii&'JrnitM Ont~USliWl¥ICO..;itUSICoolidawnl&~1'!1%U$'rml~ !M'III (."))twla:t:wufti~W.f)' ~f\IMI\tlll:iltllt.tty ww:fm;.,'VIfwl(l600 F;~m~t dil~to~~~~OOI~®~1nQWt;!tnllQI.....O'-~$~~<ltlt1f'c.ll'a.ln~~
r:c.................~.~-.........iJ.........................__ ....... _ ....__ 
Tuesday, March 15, 2005 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 

BENGAL BOUTS 



Activities Night 
choice a wise one 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 

Would it be the computer dub? The philosophy dub? The Brazil dub? 
.-Luckily for the men's boxing dub, Nathan Lohmeyer stopped at their table during his first Activities Night. "It was freshman year," he said. "I guess my friend and I were just walking around the Activities Night, where you have all the dubs set up. We kind of walked by the boxing stand, and he was like 'I bet I could kick your (buttl and I was like 'no way."' The friendly challenge turned into a commitment that would last Lohmeyer, a fighter in the 150-pound weight class and two-time Bengal Bouts captain, through his time at Notre Dame. "We both signed up and from there, it's grown into something I've enjoyed over four years," he said. The Missouri native, who spent three years in O'Neill Hall before moving off-campus, had never boxed before. "I ran track and played soccer in high school, so more of the not-as-(mueh(-contact sports," Lohmeyer said. Initially, he got involved with Bengal Bouts to stay active after high school. The workouts are geared towards conditioning, and as a junior and senior cap­tain, he works with novice box­ers on technique. "It's like 250 push-ups a day, 500 sit-ups, 750 jumping-jacks, ideally," he said. "That's the warm up. Then we basically break it down and teach them a new technique ... a jab, parry, power-block, whatever ... and finish up with more jumping jacks." Lohmeyer estimates a two­hour practice being 70 percent physical conditioning, with the rest "teaching [boxers] what it takes to not get killed." This is especially important for first­time boxers, who are trained by 
the captains. 
"All the novice boxers -peo­ple who have never Iboxed I before -come in in the fall, we start in the middle of October and we train for about six to eight weeks during the fall," he explained. 
Having a leadership role changed Lohmeyer's time com­mitment to Bengal Bouts, but the senior finance major looks back with pride. 
"It's just kind or fun," he said. "When you're a freshman, you look up there and you sec the guys who are lPading the show, and you're like oh, those guys are on top of things, they know exactly what's going on, they're not worrifld about taking a shot." 
Captains are also rp,sponsible for much of the administrative work that goPs into Bengal Bouts. 
"You're chosen by the cap­tains previous to you, so it was nice to step into that role," said Lohmeyer. "There's a lot of stuff that goes on behind the scenes." 
Money from the Bouts' ticket sales, programs, advertising and merchandise sales goes to the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. The four finance majors were able to keep the financial side of the boxing dub in order, and Lohmeyer will work for a consulting firm in Chicago next year. 
Lohmeyer, nicknamed "The Bonzai Kitten," has advanced to the sfl'Illi-finals in the 150­pound weight class. Although fans are nice, he encourages students to attend all the fights. 
"People should come out just because they'rp, really, really fun to watch," he said. "It's the 'guys you see in physies class or accounting just going at it, toe­to-toe ... and it's really Pnter­taining to watch." 
It's more of a spectator sport than most of the other featured clubs at Activities Night, any­ways. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

£Irv'E SYVSIC!!! 
St. PATRICK'S DAY, Thursday Mar 17th. Come enjoy a night of Progressive Rock and Bluegrass with: 
'Octagandhi' and 'Jazzy Grass' 
Two bands for the price of one!!! Join us at The State Theatre, 214 S. Michigan St, Downtown South Bend 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 




Rutgers upsets Irish in first round 
Loss crushes Notre Dame's NCAA Tournament hopes 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 

. NEW YOHK -Notre Dame needed one more conference win to solidify a spot in the NCAA tournament, and in the opening round of the Big East Tournament, the Irish couldn't get it. . 
Torin Francis scored a sea­son-high 21 points and grabbed 13 rebounds, but No. 11 seed Hutgers shot 46 percent from the floor and responded at the right times as the Scarlet Knights defeated the No. 6 seed Irish 72-65 in Madison Square Garden Wednesday night. 
Hutgers senior guard lUcky Shields led his team with 21 points on 9-for-18 shooting. The Scarlet Knights (1 0-18) also made 7-of-17 shots from 3­point range, a significant improvement from a 3-of-15 effort exactly a week bPfore in the only previous meeting between the two teams. 
In that game on March 2, Notre Dame beat Hutgers 66-56 at the Joyce Center. The win came after a ten-point loss three days earlier to UCLA. After falling at home to Pittsburgh in the linal game of the regular season, the Irish ( 1 7-11) did not obtain a bye in the first round of the confer­ence tournament and ended up paying the price. 
"We fought our way back and gave ourselves a chance to win it," Irish coach Mike Brey said following the Hutgers loss. "But we couldn't defend at some key times when we had the lead. You have to give Hutgers credit. They made big shots at key times." 
Notre Dame led for only three brief periods throughout the entire game, the final of which came when Chris Thomas found Bussell Cartflr for a :~­point field goal with 1:28 remaining to give the Irish a 65-641Pad. 
Out of a Hutgers 30-sPcond timeout, however, Shields con­verted a drive into the lane and the Scarlet Knights went on an 8-0 run to end the game. 
Carter, along with Francis, was one of the few bright spots for Notre Dame. The sopho­more reserve played 22 min­utes in replacement of starting shooting guard Chris Quinn and scored 12 points on 4-of-9 shooting. Quinn left the game in the first half with a bruised clavicle after colliding with Hutgers forward Marquis Webb. 
With Quinn out of the ball­game and Hutgers' defense pressing, Notre Dame fell out of a balanced attack and could not defend or score with its guards. 
"I think it makes him proba­bly do a little too much, but he had to try and do that with Quinn out of there," Brey said. "You're able to isolate on two guys on the perimeter rather than three. They defended bet­ter than a week ago on the perimeter." 
Hutgers coaches and players accomplished exactly what they had planned to do. 
"(Our players] followed the game plan," Rutgers coach Gary Waters said. "The game plan was to defend and to not let them get a lot of open looks from the outside. The last time 


GEOFF MATTESONfThe Observer Colin Falls defends Antonio Graves at the Joyce Center March 5. 
we played them, they scored 42 
points from the outsid'e. We 
made a eommitmPnt this game 
to shut that down." 
Chris Thomas led Notre 
Dame's guards with 17 points 
but did so on 6-of-17 shooting. 
Colin Falls shot 1-for-10 from 
tlw field and made 1-of-8 from 
the 3-point line. Quinn took 
only one shot and missed before 
leaving the game due to injury. 
In all, the Irish guards shot 7­
for-28 from the field for 20 total 
points. Hutgers guards scored 
38 points. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


Tuesday, March 15, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
MEN'S TRACK 


5 earn All-American honors 
By NATE DYER 
Spons Writer 

Tho Notre Dame men's track team capped off a great indoor season last weekend, as f'ive Irish athletes earned All-American status at the NCAA Indoor Championships. The Championships were held in Fay•~ttnvilln, Arkansas at tlw Univ•~rsity of Arkansas. 
I><H~oratnd senior Irish hur­dler S<~lim Nurudeen collected his first-nver All-American honor Friday, posting a time of 
7.7X seconds in the 60-meter hurdles. That limn was good enough for sixth ovnrall. 
In his third trip to an NCAA championship event, Nurudeen was able to cap a groat snnior indoor season that has seen him also take homn thn Big East Championship. Aside from competing in the 60-meter hurdlns, Nurudeen also ran in the 200-meter dash, but did 
WOMEN'S TRACK 

Phone call comes late, but not too late 
Madiafinishes 12th in 3,000 nzeters at NCAAs 
not advance to the finals after clocking in at a time of 21.91. 
Sophomore Kurt Benninger continued his amazing indoor season by garnering two All­lance medley relay team, which also consisted of sen­iors Eric Morrison, Trevor McClain-Duer and freshman Adam Currie, to a sixth-place 
American hon­ors. After win­ning his pre­liminary heat, "/just wanted to go Benninger 
out and race as 
posted a time 
best as I could to
of 4:02.24 in the one-mile make it to the final, earning 
finals." 
fourth pla<~e overall and All­
Kurt Benninger
American sta­
tus. This was Irish sophomore his second trip to an NCAA 
finish with an over­all time of 9:36.67. The finish was good enough to earn All-American honors for the team, the first such honor for each run­ner. 
However, it was the hometown Ar­kansas Razorbacks squad who took home the overall championship, win­
meet. 
"Yesterday I just wanted to go out and race as best as I eould to make it to the finals I for the mile run I." Benninger said on Saturday. "II also 1 wanted to do whatever I could to get the job done in the dis­tam~c medley relay." 
Benninger led the men's dis­ning their 40th national cham­pionship and 18th in the Indoors. The Razorbacks fin­ishHd with an overall score of 56 points, with Florida (46) and Wisconsin (43) finishing in second and third, respectively. 
Contact Nate Dyer at ndyer@nd.edu 



By RYAN KIEFER 
Sports Writer 
Last Thursday, junior Stephanie Madia had not qualified to compete in the NCAA Indoor Championships. But a phone call later that night informed her of a late 
scratch and called for  an  
early  morning  flight.  on  
Friday.  

Having run the 20th best time at the 3,000-meter dis­tam~c in the NCAA this sea­son, Madia found herself' one position out of tho field of 19 runnors, or oxaetly 1.6 snc­onds behind the next fastest runner. She was informnd late Thursday, however, that there was a late scratch, opening a place for her in the field. The junior boarded the first plane out Friday morning and was on the track Saturday morning in Fayetteville, Ark., earning a 12th place finish, running a time of 9:36.67. 
Irish coach Tim Connelly was pleased that Madia had the opportunity to run and was very impressed with her result. 
"She was the last runner in, so for her to beat anyone was an accomplishment. She didn't think she was running on the weekend, so she had a high mileage week with sig­nificant weight training. For her to run that well on tired legs was quite an accom­plishment," Connelly said. 


This weekend's perform­ance comes as part of' a mid­season resurgence for Madia, who ran extn~mely well in four events at the Big East Championships and ran a season best time of 9:22.50 at the Alex Wilson Invitational a wenk ago. 
"She showed she can com­petn with the bnst in tlw country -she just faded in the last XOO, and that can lw a tt rib u t c d to tlw in t n n s e training early in llw wePk," Connelly said. 

The only other athlete to represent tlw Irish women at the NCAA's was junior high jumper Staeny Cowan. Making her second NCAA appearanee, Cowan strug­gled to a 19th place f'inish, clearing 1.73 meters (5-7.75 feet), thrco inches short of her season best. 
"In the technical events, you have to be in sync to suc­ceed. Stacey for whatover reason seomed out of sync over the weekend," Connelly said. 
Cowan will use lwr NCAA experience as she rejoins hnr teammates for the first out­door meet of the season, the Willie Williams Invitational, Friday and Saturday in Tucson, Ariz. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 

RecSports has student employment openings for this Summer and the 2005-2006 academic year. 
Become a part of the RecSports Family and share in the joy of helping others attain their recreational goals. 
Applications me available on line (l_l recspons.nd.edu or by vis it ing the RSRC. First consideration will be given tn those applying by rv1an.:h 23. 
Questions l'all I ()I 00 
page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 15, 2005 
Hockey 
continued from page 28 
going to let his career end on such a down note, and he proved it Saturday by turning in a nearly-perfect perform­ance. 
"That game Saturday was basically just like Morgan's entire career," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "He gave us an opportunity to win, and it was a great rebound from Friday for both him and the rest of the tPam." 
Michigan's decisive goal came at the 2:03 mark of overtime when were either one-goal or two­goal losses, and usually during the course of the season you'll get a few breaks that will help you in those close games. 
"It really seemed like this year we just didn't get any of those breaks." Michigan 10, Notre Dame 1 
The Irish took an early 1-0 lead Friday, but that would be all the Notre Dame offense would muster in a 10-1 loss to the fourth-ranked Wolverines. 
Michigan blew the game open in the second period, scoring seven goals and chasing Cey. 
Irish freshman forward Evan Rankin scored the first goal of the game at the 
15:38 mark of the 

defenseman Eric "That game first period as he Werner flipped a Saturday was pounced on a rebound of a rebound left by
basically just like
David Moss shot Michigan goalie AI over Cey. Cey, for­Morgan's entire Montoya. Rankin ward Cory career. stuffed the puck McLean and Joe through Montoya's Zurenko -the pads for his fifth 
Dave Poulin
three members of goal of the season. Notre Dame's Irish coach Michigan got 
senior class ­failed to advance to Joe Louis Arena for the first time in their Irish careers. 
"It was very difficult for our three seniors to realize they wouldn't be going to Detroit this year," Poulin said. "But I was very impressed with the way they finished their careers and know they'll be successful in the future." 
The loss Saturday capped off the worst season in Notre Dame's 38-ynar history, as the Irish finished the year with a record of 5-27-6. 
"It's been the most difficult year that I've coached at Notre Dame," Poulin said. "You look at most of our games and they 
goals from Eric 

Nystrom, Jeff Tambellini, Michael Woodford, Milan Gajic (two), Brandon Rogers (two), Chad Kolarik (two) and Kevin Porter. Montoya made 14 saves. 
"We had a difficult line change early [at the start of the second period! and had to take a penalty," Poulin said. "Michigan scored on that power play and got on one of their typical rolls. Red [Berenson, the Michigan coach] said in his interview after the game that everything they were shooting was going in for them." 
Michigan State 2, Notre Dame 1 
Cey made 35 saves in his final game at the Joyce Center, but he and his fellow seniors fell short on Senior Night as the Spartans eked out a 2-1 victory over the Irish March 6. 
Michigan State drew first blood in the game, with Jim Slater scoring on the power play at the 16:59 mark of the first period. 
Notre Dame's Tim Wallace ­who set a new Irish record by playing in his 115th consecutive game -tied the game with a power play goal of his own at 
8:59 of the second period. Forward Mike Walsh took a hard shot that squirted through Spartan goalie Dominic Vicari. As the puck Jay in the crease, Wallace took advantage of the opportunity and poked the free puck home. 
But the Spartans would score the game-winner just three minutes later, with Jim McKenzie flipping a rebound of a Colton Fretter shot ovPr a sprawling Cey. Michigan State 3, Notre Dame 2 
After two periods it looked like Notre Dame's 15-game winless streak would come to an end, but Jim Slater had other ideas. 
The Irish took a 2-0 lead into the third period March 5, but the talented Slater scored one goal and assisted on two others as Michigan State rallied for a 3-2 victory over Notre Dame in East Lansing, Mich. 
Chris Trick and Tim Wallace scored the two goals for Notre Dame, while Drew Miller, McKenzie and Slater tallied the Spartans' goals. 
Vicari made 17 saves in the victory, while Brown made 26 stops in the losing effort. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
MEN'S GOLF 

Final round surge puts Irish in 2nd 
for first and fell only one 
By STEVE COYER 

stroke behind the leader. 
Sports Writer 
"Shane [Sigsbee] was really 

the star for us, playing some 
A strong push in the final super golf," Kubinski said round securPd a second place after the second round finish for the Irish in the last Sunday. day of the General Jim Junior Mark Baldwin shot Hackler Invitational. consistently to place 14th 
The Irish moved into fourth overall with a score of 225 place Sunday to put the team after being in 28th place on 11 strokes off the pace of Sunday. Freshman GrHg tournament host Coastal Rodgers surged to a 22nd Carolina. place finish after 
With a final being locked at team score of "You've got to 33rd after the 891, the Irish second round. 
believe in 
more than cut The Irish
yourself"
that lead in half placed ahead of Monday to fin­five teams ranked ish only five Jim Kublinski in the top 50 shots behind Golfweek/Sagarin
Irish coach 
Coastal Carolina at 886. 
"We're coming very close to becoming a very good team," Notre Dame head coach Jim Kublinski said. "We just have to keep gaining more confi­dence in ourselves and keep getting put into the fire of these high-quality tourna­ments." 
Sophmore Shane Sigsbee lead the Irish squad with a second place finish overall and an individual score of 
215. In his first start this sea­son, Sigsbne came into the third round in a three way tie 
squad. 

According to Kubinski, the key to success in these tournaments has been the team's confidence against any competition. 
"You've got to believe in yourself ... and have that con­fidence that we're going to go into tournaments [knowing] we're going to beat these guys," Kubinski said. 
The Irish will resume action April 2 when they participate in the Augusta State Invitational. 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 

Tuesday, March I 5, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
Men 
continued from page 28 
improve to 16-7 Feb. 19, Notrn Damn droppnd four of its last live ){ames, which didn't !nave a posi­tivn impression with the NCAA tournament seleetion committee. 
(;etting blown out by UCLA at horne Feb. 27, the loss on Senior Day against Pittsburgh and the disappointing loss to Hutgers at Madison Square (;arden in the first round of the Big East Tournament Wednesday were the losses that hurt Notre Dame's ease the most. Winning one of those thme games more than liknly would havn gottnn the Irish ba1:k to the Big Danee. 
"We had opportunities. We had the Pittsburgh game here and Hutgers thnre. We had chances to nail it, and we didn't nail it," Brey said. "If you go 2-2, it's over." 
Tonight's game against the Crusadnrs is a surprising matchup for the Irish. Talk on Sunday night lead many to bnlinve Marqunttn, Miami (Ohio) or Indiana would bn a potential first-round game, since the NIT likes to havn contests that will draw fans to the games. Last year's first-round gamn for the Irish against Purdue at the Joyee Center on St. Patriek's Day is a primn example. 
The Crusaders saw their 16­game winnin){ streak snapped Friday in tlw Patriot League championship game when they lost on their home court to Bucknell. Earlier in the season, lloly Cross took Boston College to overtime, only to see the Eagles win by thrne. 
"This is a Big EIL'it team quite !'rankly. Tlwy are older, very well coached. It's a league game. It's that kind of challenge for us," Brey said Monday. "Maybe both teams are playing pissed off. They had the title game on their home eourt and were the regular season champion. Both teams can use that energy on the floor." 

Last season the Irish struggled all year, so playing in the NIT was expected during most of the season. But this year, the NIT only became a realistie possibility when the Irish faltered down the stretch. 
Now the ehallenge for Brey and the senior leaders who arn end­ing thnir Notre Dame careers is to keep the rest of the team moti­vated if it wants to get back to New York. 
"It's over now. When we didn't see our name flash up, that's over with," Chris Thomas said Monday. "We can't dwell on it. We're in a one-and-done situa­tion just like we were in the tour­nament." 
Tip-off is set for 7 p.m. on ESPN2. Students need to pur­chase a tieket for admittance into .the game. Tickets for the general public went on sale this morning. 
Note: 
+ Brey said Monday Chris Quinn is a game-time decision for tonight's game. Quinn bruised his davide in the game Wednesday night against Hutgers. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

Leonard 
continued from page 28 
from a Hutgers big man and headed for the corner. 
Thomas stepped back, gath­ered himself and fired a mean­ingless 3-pointer with four seconds to go. 
Air ball. 

Thus goes Notre Dame's sea­son, and thus has gone Thomas' career. 
It had started with a 24-point, 
"Losing -it's never
11-assist, 11-used to winning 
steal explosion been ingrained with and being on in his first home basketball to me, top, a loss to game in an Irish the No. 11 seed
especially when you 
uniform, a 95-in the first 
53 drubbing of lose like this. " round of the Big New Hampshire East tourna­on Nov. 16, ment just didn't
Chris Thomas 
2001. It was make sensn.
Irish senior 
now ending in a game in which he scored as many points as he attempted shots (17) and in whieh he turned the ball over as often as he assisted on bas­kets (5). 
Thomas has taken Notre Dame to new levels and creat­ed a new set of expectations for the program. lie has scored over 2,000 points and dished more than 800 assists, only the third player in Division-! history to do so along with Sherman Douglas and Gary Payton. 
Unfortunately, in his final two seasons as an Irish point guard, Thomas' individual success was tied directly to the fate of the team as a whole. And in his junior and senior seasons, Thomas -who will go down as one of the most statistically productive players in Notre Dame basketball his­tory-missed the NCAA tour­nament. 
lie entered as Mr. Indiana from Pike High School in Indianapolis, guiding the Irish to a 22-11 overall record his freshman year almost upend­ing No. 1 seed Duke in the NCAA tournament. A Thomas­led Irish team made it to the Sweet Sixteen his sophomore year before losing to another No. 1 send, this time Arizona. 
But on Wednesday, none of 
that mattered. 
For a player so 
"Mentally, it's 

dillicult to cope with," Thomas said, visibly struggling with his team's defeat. "Losing-it's never benn ingrained with basketball to me, especially when you lose Iikn this." 
Notrn Dame has shown how far it can go with Thomas at the helm as its dedarnd leader. At the press conl'erenee following the 72-(,5 heart­breaknr to Hutgers, it was time for a change. 
Thomas, coaeh Mike Brcy and center Torin Francis sat at the podium. Brey made open­ing remarks, but the first question was directed at Thomas. 
"Chris, how do you come to grips that you may never play again in the NCAA tourna­ment'?" the reporter asknd. 
Thomas' face snmned to drain of blood and expression as hn grabbed tlw mil:ro­phonn. The senior pausnd, and then spoke. 
"I think tournamnnt ques­tions are direetnd towards Coach," he said. 
Brny followed quickly. 
"I don't want to talk about the tournament," the coach said. "We'll await our fate Sunday, and wherever they send us we'll be honored to play." 
But all so subtly and all so swiftly, the changing of the guard for Notre Dame basket­ball had taken place in the makeshift press room at Madison Square Garden. 
Thomas, the player Hrey deferred to throughout the season and the senior Brey has trusted as thn tnam 's leader, had completely deferred to his eoaeh. 
Brey took thn mierophonn and took the load -for bntter or for worse, reluctantly or simply out of duty-bncausn at that moment, the Chris Thomas era, full of extreme highs and disappointing lows, was ollieially over. 
Notre Dame is now Mike Brey's team. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Patl.eonard at pleonard@nd. edu 
Panos Antsaklis, Director
Center for Applied 

260-262 Hurley Building 
UN 1 V t. R SIT\' OJ­
NOTRE DAME Mathematics Notre Dame, Indiana 46556-4618 
ANNOUNCEMENT 2005 SUMMER FELLOWSHIPS FOR UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS 
The Center for Applied Mathematics (CAM) is pleased to announce the Summer Fellowship competition for Undergraduate Students for the Summer of 2005. Each fellowship provides a stipend of at least $1000 per month for up to two months. The exact amount of stipend depends on availability of additional REU funds. Recipients will be designated as Undergraduate Summer Fellows of the Center for Applied Mathematics. 
The Center's aim is to enhance interdisciplinary collaboration and research in applied mathematics. The Center also encourages the growing learning and use of applied mathematics. CAM fosters University-wide interaction and collaboration and provides support for applied mathematics students and researchers in a variety of disciplines spanning engineering, the physical and social sciences and business. The Center strongly encourages interdisciplinary research in applied mathematics through student fellowships, support for workshops, seminar series and faculty visitors in interdisciplinary research areas. The goal of these fellowships is to financially support a small number of highly qualified students who will be involved in interdisciplinary projects under the supervision of one or more faculty members. 
To apply for these fellowships for the Summer of 2005, a student must submit a proposal to the Center by March 29, 2005. 
The proposal must describe clearly and concisely in no more than one page the student's research topic, the expected contribution to the interdisciplinary research project, and its relevance to applied mathematics. 
The proposal should also contain the following: (i). A biographical sketch of the applicant. (ii). A letter of recommendation from the student's faculty project advisor. (iii). The time period for which support is sought, academic transcripts, and any other supporting documentation. 
Final selection will be made by the Center's Executive Committee and will be announced in the middle of April. 
Please submit proposals by March 29, 2005 to: 
Center for Applied Mathematics CAM Graduate Fellowships Attn: Ms. Lisa Tranberg 260-262 Hurley Hall Phone: 631-8660 Email: Tranberg.1 @ nd.edu 

Tuesday, March 15, 2005 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
we play." Three Notre Dame players
Wo01en 
continued from page 28 

network, while No. 5 Arizona State (22-9) opposes No. 12 Eastern Kentucky (23­
7) in the other matchup with the two winners meeting Monday for a chance at the Sweet 16 in Tempe, Ariz. 
After initially rejoicing at being in the Tempe region, the Irish players admitted frustra­tion with not earning a higher seed. Notre Dame 
have lived in California, including Courtney LaVere, Crystal Erwin and Tuylah Gaines. Those three were especially excited to return to their roots and play in front of family and friends. 
"Fresno is in my backyard, even though it's three hours away from my house," LaVere said. "But it's definitely going to be good to have some home court advantage for our team. A lot of my family would be 
able to come 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Huskies get revenge 67-54 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sporrs Writer 

HARTFORD, Conn.-A little more than a month after Notre Dame dominated Connecticut in the paint en route to a win, the Huskies returned the favor. 
No. 13 Connecticut knocked No. 10 Notre Dame out of the Big East Tournament March 7, with a con­vincing 67-54 victory at the Hartford Civic Center in the semi­final game. 
"I think the game speaks for itself," Connecticut coach Geno Auriemma said. 
Barbara Turner had 18 points, eight rebounds, five assists, three blocks and two steals in just 28 minutes to lead the Huskies, who went on to win the Big East Tournament with a 67-51 win over No. 9 Rutgers. 
"I though they were really phys­ical with us inside," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "They com­pletely dominated us on the block." 
The Irish were dominated early and often by the Huskies, who came out with an intensity the Irish never really matched. Connecticut outscored the Irish 32-22 in the paint, and had 27 second-chance points to the Irish's six. 
"We're a post-oriented team and we couldn't get anything going today," McGraw said. "They outworked us, they outrebounded us. They did everything they needed to do to win." 
The game was fairly close for the majority of the first half, but with 11:41 to play and the Iri<>h up 11-9, the Huskies erupted with a 20-6 run, powered by two 3­pointers. by Ann Strother. Connecticut went up 29-17 and the Irish could never recover, as Big East Player of the Year Jacqueline Batteast was ineffec­tive. Batteast went 1-for-11 in the opening half, contributing to Notre Dame's poor first-half shooting, as the Irish went 28.6 percent from the field.. 
To start the second half, howev­er, the Irish looked poised to make a comeback. Batteast scored eight points to lead the Irish on a 10-4 run to start the half, and cut the lead to 34-31. But that was as close as they would come. 
With 15:24 to play, Connecticut responded when Charde Houston hit a jumper to start 24-2 run that put the Huskies up 60-37 and put the Irish away for good, as Batteast was quickly shut down once again. 
"They made it more difficult to get the ball," Batteast said. "They were really pressuring and deny­ing, and so they made it hard to get the ball." 
During the run, the IIuskies were led by Strother, who had 10 points, including two 3-pointers. The Irish wPre scoreless for about seven minutes during that stretch, with Batteast ineffective. She did­n't get good shots, and the ones she had didn't go in. 
"When we cut it to 34-31, I thought we had a chance," McGraw said. "And we just hit a drought." 
Irish point guard Megan Duffy credited the Huskies defense dur­ing the run. 
"After we made our run, they really buckled down and played tremendous defense," DuffY said. "I felt like every time we drove in game. 
"She has the biggest heart of any player I've ever coached ­she never gives up," McGraw said. Notre Dame 70, West Virginia 59 
Before this year's tournament, the Irish had never won at the Hartford Civic Center. They quick­ly changed that March 6, making quick work of West VIrginia (17­
12) with a 70-59 win in the quar­terfinal match. 
Duffy showed why she was a first team All-Big East selection, scoring 15 points on 5-for-6 shoot­ing, and dishing out nine assists to lead Notre Dame. 
The Irish found a different offensive spark in the first half, however, in Breona Gray. Gray, who averaged just 5.6 points com­ing into the game, had six first­half points and finished with 11 to give the Irish a boost out of the gate. 
"I was really pleased with the way she came out," McGraw said. "I told her after the game, she really set the tone for the game. She was running the floor, she was scoring points." 
Batteast, after struggling early, finished with 16 points and five rebounds to lead the Irish. Allen added 11 points ofi'the beneh. Notes: 
+ Batteast, who was the presea­son Big East Player of the Year, was named the Big East Player of the Year and was first team all­Big East for the second straight year. DuffY earned first team hon­ors for the first time in her career, one year after she was named Big East Most Improved Player. Allen was named to the first team Big East All-Freshman team. Honors were announced March 4 in 

had seven wins and it'll be good against top-25 "We can't control for Crystal, teams, went 13-3 [Breona Gray
the seed, we can 
in conference and from Nevada]
only control how 
had an RPI of 6. and Tuylah and 
McGraw said her we play." all those on the 2001 national West Coast." championship Once in
Muffet McGraw
squad had a six Fresno, Notre
Irish coach 
RPI and were the Dame will face No. 1 seed in that a strong Santa tournament. Barbara squad. 
"I guess the number this Led by senior guard Kristen year was 23-7," Jacqueline Mann, the Gauchos won the Batteast said. "Maybe if we Big West regular season and would have lost a couple more tournament titles and haven't games, we would have gotten lost since Feb. 3. They have a higher seed.... This year we faced Notre Dame just once only had five losses and last before, an early November year we had a 11 losses and game in 1997, which the Irish we were a five seed." won. 
Batteast was referring to "Santa Barbara will be a Minnesota (24-7), Connecticut very, very tough game," (23-7) and Texas (21-8)-all McGraw said. "Kristen Mann teams that earned No. 3 seeds is one of the best players in despite worse records than the country, and she's up for a the Irish. Ohio State and lot of the awards Jackie Duke, two teams that had sim­[Batteast] is up for. She's very ilar records to Notre Dame talented." and who both lost to the Irish The rest of the higher seeds earlier this season, gained No. in the Tempe bracket unfolded . 2 seeds, while 19-10 Penn as follows: No. 1 North State got a No. 4 seed as well. Carolina, No. 2 Baylor, No. 3 
"We thought we'd be around Minnesota, No. 6 Virginia, No. a three, that was our predic­7 Texas Christian and No. 8 tion," guard Megan Duffy said. Mississippi. "A four's fine, we're in good shape. We can't control the Contact Joe Hettler at seed, we can only control how jhettler@nd.edu 
What if~ 

the lane thnre were three people Hartford, Conn. there and there was nowhere to +Turner was named the Big East kick it out. Tournament Most Outstanding 
"But we have to be able to exe­Player, and Duffy earned first
...you could jump start yo1,.1r career by 

cute better. I think that's when we team All-tournament honors,
earning an MBA from a highly respected 

have to set better screens, do the averaging 18 points, six assists little things." and two steals in two games. 
business school in less than one year? 

Duffy had 21 points for the Irish, but 16 of them came with Contact Heather Van Hoegarden 
What if you entered a totally immersive, 

under five minutes to play in the at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
one-of-a-kind learning environment that 

---------------;------------------­
would prepare you to succeed within the 

r[) ~ c c 0 s Special Hours for Graduation 
~ May 15th 4pm-10pm
complex realities of today's global marketplace? 

Restaurant No Reservations Please 
Visit our website: www.redefinedmba.uky.edu 

Pirst Ori&ina( Pizza in ~own! 
See how we've redefined the MBA. 
Since 1951 

Specializing iu Italian Entrees Tu<·s. -Thurs.: 5:00PM -II :OOJ>M Fri. -Sat.: 3:00PM-1:00AM 
537 North St. Louis South Bend, IN 57!1-133-24{)4 Cut out this coupon for $2.00 off any pizza. Dine-in only. Expires 3/3112005 


FIRST ROUND ACTION AT THE JOYCE CENTER 
N~ ~ i/4. H~ ~ ""' 
Tuesday, March 15th at 7PID 1M' 
•$4 for ND, St. Mary's and ~-'· n_ c_,_ ~ar. / •Early arriving students Holy Cross Students ~ n:~etll ~1" ouu:-'yOUJ receive a free Chick-fil-A 

Ti<~kets can be purcbasetl at both Nortb and sandwich while supplies South Dining llalls tbrouglt butch totnorrow last 


Tuesday, March 15, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
DILBERT 
SENIOR MANAGEMENT HAS DECIDED TO MOVE OUR OFFICE OUT OF 
THIS HIGH-CRIME 
AREA. 
) 

PEANUTS 
PERHAPS YOU DIDN1TUNDERSTAND.. CI-IARLIE BROWN ISN1T GOING TO 
ACTUALLY, YOU'RE ONLY GOING TO BE STAYING WITH US 

SCOTT ADAMS 
POLICE RELEASED THIS SKETCH. THE GUY LIKES TO YELL SOMETHING ABOUT A "FIST OF DEATH." 
) 

CHARLES SCHULZ 
50 YOU DON1T !-lAVE TO SEND OUT '' C~AN6E OF 
JUMBLE 
J11]J)Mtffi)1[; 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one Jetter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LUTIG 
j 
1 
ri tJ 
102005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r·;~;\..~t J 
tSUNGUFj
J rI 
www.jumble.com
tKENRAT t
J I I I J 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHE:N THE: KING WE:NT OUT FOR THE: NIGHT, HE: WORE: HIS--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


A: 'l I I I I J" rI xr I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: BROOK COLON FABRIC UTMOSTYesterday's I 
Answer: Where the band ended up when their concert fizzled AT "ROCK" BOTTOM 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 "Show Boat" 
author Ferber 5 Sheep cries 9 Sense much 

used in a bakery 14 Stick-to-it­
iveness 15 Pac 10 member 16 Shire of "Rocky" 17 Strong wind 18 Metric weight 1 9 Back street 20 Forecast maker 23 Leader known 
for his "little red book" 24 Quantity: Abbr. 
25 Lucy of "Charlie's Angels," 2000 
28 Slugger called the Sultan of Swat 
31 Commendation 36 Gaelic tongue 38 Crystal ball user 40 Sea duck 
41 "Melrose Place" actress 
44 Laos who wrote "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes" 
45 Wire screen 46 Fill up 47 Episodes of 

"Friends" and "Seinfeld," now 49 Within a stone's throw 51 Acid, in the 60's 52 700, on monuments 
54 Actor Stephen 56 Motorcyclist's wear, often 

63 Final authority 64 Extol 65 Former Baathist state 67 "You're talk!" 
68 "Do you come here often?," e.g. 
69 Scrabble piece 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

70 Accelerator or brake 71 Pindar writings 72 Scored 1 00 on 
DOWN 1 Faberge collectible 2 Shout at a shootout 3 River with Blue and White tributaries 4 Special forces 
unit 5 Crazy, slangily 6 Farm division 7 Having wings 8 Brazilian dance 9 TV series with 
Klingons and Romulans 10 Having XY chromosomes 11 Scat queen Fitzgerald 12 Place 13 Place 21 Road topper 22 "Steee-rike!" caller 
25 Franz who composed "The Merry Widow" 
26 In an old song, the "I'll see you in my dreams" girl 
27 Carrier that acquired Piedmont 
29 Period in office 
30 Beauty of Troy 
32 Is sick 
33 Perfect 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WlLLSHORTZ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Taylor Hanson, 22; Kirhy PuL·kctt. 44; Billy Crystal, 58; Quincy Jones, 72 
Happy Birthday: Working within a group will be the most bcnclicial for you this year. The support system you develop will encourage you and give you the conlidencc to step into the future featuring your unique ideas. This is not the year to let anyone push you around or take you for granted. Set the record straight as to what you want and how you arc going to get it. Your numbers arc 2, 3, 5. 19, 2K, .n 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may have trouble making up your mind tndny. Look at the big picture; if you react too qukkly, you will overdo, overspend and overcompensate. Refrain from making promises. ••• TAURUS (April 20-Mny 20): Everything is perfect for you to take action and get things moving. You may he a little emotional, hut that will result in your being passionate about what you arc trying to accomplish. The lime is right. ••• GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): You may have everything in order, hut someone or something is likely to surface that will cause problems for you. Be prepared for whatever challenge comes your way. Acreative approach will he most effective. *** CANCER (June 21-,July 22): You'll be torn between the choices you've been given. Take the one that feels the most in tunc with who you arc and what you believe in. A little romance should he penciled in for later in the day. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Someone will be taking personal shots at you today. Keep your emotions level and don't let anyone know you are bothered hy what's going on. In the end you'll be the one who's looking good. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): The changes you arc experiencing arc good. Jump in with both feet and be the one who leads the way. Passion is heightened, and opportunities to get up close and personal with someone special must be taken advantage of.***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Ignore what's going on around you and do what you can to clear any legal, Iinancial or health problems that exist. The less time you have to dwell over what's said and done, the hctter. Anger will only hold you back. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): There is a lot to be said for following your heart and your dreams. Creative ideas will flow freely and can result in a profitable venture. Emotional deception is present, so he sure to make your own decisions. ••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): The best thing you can do is to work hard and avoid conflicts with your peers or superiors. You can't win if you decide to wage war on someone who opposes you. Retreat and accomplish what you can. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You are in charge, even if you don't realize it. Take the initiative and follow through with your plans, and you will get the support you need to finish what you start. Love and romance are in the stars. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Look all arourid you before you make a move. Someone is likely to try to sabotage you. Know your competitors well, and you will avoid a mishap. Taking a rather unusual route will surprise anyone who challenges you. •• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): There is too much going on in your life right now for you to sit back and rest. Make a decision and follow through with it. Rewards will he yours at the end of the day. Love is evident. **** 
Birthday Baby: You are intelligent, courageous and disciplined. You won't let anyone get away with something that doesn't suit you. You are unique and entertaining, and you like to do things on a grand scale. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenia/ast.com for confidt•llfial consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

34 Theater reservations 
35 Missed the mark 
37 "_, Brute?" 
39 Switch-hitter known as Charlie Hustle 
42 Screwdriver or wrench 
43 Pantomime game 48 Educ. site 50 room 53 Yo-Yo Ma's instrument 55 Japanese dog 56 Swim meet division 57 Gazed at 

58 "The Thin Man" dog 59 Police action 60 Father's Day month 61 Guitarist Clapton 62 Story 63 Soak (up) 66 Mathematical proof letters 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address _______________________________________________________ City _____________________ State ______ Zip________ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, March 15, 2005 
page 28 
N 0 BASKETBALL 

Mix of emotions on Selection Sunday 
Irish return to NIT, host Holy Cross in ~:. first round tonight 
By MATT LOZAR Senior Staff Writer 

For the second Selection Sunday in a row, Notre Dame was on the NCAA tournament bubble. 
And for the second year in a row, the Irish aren't going to the postseason See Also tournament "Rutgers upsets they were 
Irish in first
hoping for. After not round" hearing its 

page22
name called for the field of 65, Notre Dame {17-11) returns to the National Invitation Tournament (24-6) and hosts Holy Cross tonight at 7 p.m. 
"I was prepared for the NIT, and that's how I prepared the team," Brey said Sunday. "We probably made a [heck] of a run at that bracket, but it wasn't enough ... It would have been more of an unbelievably pleas­ant surprise ifwe got in." 
After escaping from Providence with a 1-point win to 
see MEN/page 25 
BRAD CARMEAN/The Observer Pittsburgh's Carl Krauser defends Chris Thomas on Senior Day March 5. 
Loss in NYC unfortunate end 
It was the worst thing that could have hap­pened, but it was also the most appropriate. 
The game was all but over. Down five Pat with 31.9 Leonard 
seconds to 
Sports
go, Notre 
Writer
Dame's NCAA tournament hopes began ticking away with the remaining sec­onds. Jordan Cornette missed a jump shot and the Irish fouled. Rutgers missed a free throw and the Irish got the ball back. 
Then, off a Russell Carter miss with time winding down, Chris Thomas moved in. Notre Dame's senior point guard leapt in the air, ripped the rebound 
see LEONARD/page 25 

Breona Gray drives to the basket in Notre Dame's Big East semifinal loss to Connecticut. 
No.4 seed Irish off to California to face UC-Santa Barbara 
By JOE HETTLER Senior Staff Writer 

When Notre Dame's name appeared as a No. 4 seed on Selection Sunday, the Irish players cheered -not for the seed itself, but for its location in Fresno, Calif. See Also 
"I thought 
"Huskies get

we would be a three seed, revenge 67-54" 
but four's not 
. page 26 

that far behind," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said from her house where team members and media watched the bracket's unveil­ing. "We're just happy to be playing in a nice, warm cli­mate. We knew we were going to be traveling somewhere, so it's kind of nice to go some­where where the weather will be nice." 
The Irish (26-5) draw No. 13 seed University of California Santa Barbara (21-8) in the first round on Saturday at 
4:30 p.m. (EST) on the ESPN 
see WOMEN/page 26 
HOCKEY 

Sweep at Michigan ends year 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Senior StatTWriter 
Morgan Cey gave Irish fans something to remember him by. 
The senior goaltender gave a fine performance in his last game in a Notre Dame uni­form, making 43 saves, but the offense wasn't there to back up his effort as the Irish fell 1-0 in overtime to Michigan in the second game of their best-of-three series against the Wolverines Saturday night in Ann Arbor, Mich. . 
Notre Dame lost game one of the series Friday by a score of 1 0-1, with Cey starting in net and having a less-than-memo­rable performance -allowing four goals on 19 shots before being pulled in favor of back­up David Brown. 
But the senior goalie wasn't 
see HOCKEY/page 24 


Cory Mclean skates toward the net against Nebraska-Omaha Feb. 5. The Irish lost both games at Michigan this weekend. 

BASEBALL 
Offense gets hot, pitching struggles 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
The Irish offense found its groove over spring break ­scoring 40 runs in six games. But the defense and pitching hit a rut. 
"There were an awful lot of things that we struggled with during the week, but there were a lot of things we did well too," coach Paul Mainieri said. "We're still kind of finding our way." 
On the Texas road trip, Notre Dame (6-7) finished 2-4 after surrendering 62 runs. The Irish headed intu the spring break swing with a two-game losing streak. 
The streak continued. 

At the Round Rock College Classic, the Irish fell to the eighth-ranked Aggies 13-5 after holding 1-0 and 4-2 leads. 
Lefty Tom Thornton (1-2) took the loss after allowing seven 
earned  runs  through  six  
innings of work.  
The  Irish  then  met  the  

eleventh-ranked Rice Owls and trailed 4-0 in the third when the game was rained out. In the final game of The Classic, Notre Dame faced a solid Texas State squad. Sophomore right­hander Jeff Manship -back from Tommy John surgery ­threw his first college pitch. He suffered the loss after allowing four first-inning runs. Texas State held on for the 10-5 win. 
Notre Dame squared up against the hometown Texas San-Antonio Roadrunners in the opening game of the Irish Baseball Classic, and for the first time in the Paul Mainieri era, the Irish saw a losing 
see BASEBALL/ page 1 9 


~n nuu::~<

ME~'S GOLf 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
MUi

~Il WOMEffS GOlf 
Choosing Bengal

2nd at General 
NCAA Indoor 

1st place at St. 
No. 14 Notre 
Bouts on Activities 
Chicago Cubs ace
Championships
Jim Hacker 

Croix Classic 
Dame 9, No. 10 
Night freshman year 
Mark Prior is sidelined
Invitational 

North Carolina 7 
leads to Nathan 
indefinitely due to right
Five men's team 

Irish win tournament 
Lohmeyer becoming a 
elbow inflammation. 
members become All­

at U.S. Virgin Islands by 
Irish rebound from
Final-round surge 
captain senior year. 
Americans. 

35 shots. 
loss to Cornell by
sends Irish to second­
defeating Tar Heels.
place finish. 

page 24 
page 23 
page 21 
page 17
page 22 

page 20 











