
Transition at the top 
Af'lnr I X yPars undnr tlw diwction of sion and size of the faculty and tlw UnivPrsity l'rnsidPnt Fallwr l~dward endowment. Malloy, Notre l>anH• will stnp into a nnw The presidential transition between Pra of ll'adl'rship .July 1 whnn Malloy and .Jnnkins is just Notre Damn's llnivPrsity l'rl'sidPnt-PIP('l Fatlwr .John second in the last 5:~ years, but both .Jnnkins assumes tlw (H'nsidency. men and University l'rnsidnnt Emeritus 
Malloy's tnnurn was marked by Father Theodore llesburgh said the imprnssiw Uniwrsity stridns in diversi­valuns and mission of Notre Dame pro­ty. /L('adnmir reputation, campus nxpan-vide a vital link between leaders. 
SEE "MONK MALLOY" INSERT 

Rectors leave ND 
This week on campus is tho last not Cavanaugh llall. lleat.hnr Bakorzy ol' only for the graduating seniors, but also Pangborn llall. Bnth Skimwr of M('Ciinn for several University rectors. Seven llall, Fathnr .1. Stceln of Morrissny rectors will not be rnturning to their Manor, and Sistnr l'alrida Thomas ol' positions in the fall, according to the Walsh I tall will no longer bn n1r.tors . Oflice of Student Afl'airs. The Officn of Stud(1nt Affairs has 
Kathleen Brannock of Howard llall, already startnd accepting applications Hebecca Davidson of Breen-l'hillips and interviewing candidates to fill tlw llall, Sister Patricia Dnarbaugh of positions. 
SEE STORY PAGE 16 

page 2 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 13, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 

What I learned 
Forget about graduation, I almost didn't end up at Notre Dame. 
Caught up in the high school mindset of believing majors were more important than the college experience, I only applied to Notre Dame when the applica­
tion deadline got pushed back two weeks in January 2001. 
Looking back, it doesn't make sense (especially when my major changed two months into fresh­man year). 
I was the first person 


in my family to attend Matt lozar Notre Dame, so the only way I learned about the 
Editor in Chief
traditions and aura 

Emeritus
came through books I received for Christmas presents.AJlireally knew was football, thanks to NBC. 

Four years underneath the Golden Dome taught me so much more. 
It taught me Notre Dame is about a lot more than football, and not just because our four years -minus an eight-game Return to Glory -were about the worst football sequence in school history. Yes, it's the reason Notre Dame became the national school it is today, but the academics, service and faith take this place to a whole level where other universities can't compete. 
It taught me college is, despite what the parental units might say, about a lot more than grades. Think back to the freshman opening that dorm room door on Frosh-0 weekend and compare it to the senior opening that door to the real world. Both are scary endeavors. Now we're a lot more prepared because of what encompasses a Notre Dame education, not that history test you didn't study for freshman year. 
But most importantly I learned what Notre Dame is truly about. 
It taught me Notre Dame is about the people. 
It's hard to realize that until you're here ­interacting with students, professors and employees on a daily basis. You can't compre­hend why so many alumni, who you've never met before, will go out of their way just because you went to the same school. 
Everyone has their own memories of taking road trips, partaking in football weekends, staying up until 4 a.m. on a Monday night for no reason, dosing down the local watering holes, making midnight LaFun runs and doing other random funny things you and your friends will laugh about at future football games, weddings and class reunions. 
This weekend when we move that tassel, turn around our rings and walk up the steps of the Main Building, we close the most formative chapter on our lives and move on to one that won't affect us as much. It's difficult to do, because the reason these four years have shaped our lives so much is because of the people we've met. 
Nobody wants to say goodbye to the friends who doubled as neighbors for four years. Nobody wants to stop doing things only college students do. Nobody wants to leave the bubble. 
Nobody wants to turn that page this week­end. 
Unfortunately we have to. 
And when we do, it's going to be tough. 

The tears flowed while saying goodbye to my family on that August morning four years ago 
because I didn't know what was awaiting me at Notre Dame. 
Throughout the weekend and as I pull away from Keough Hall on Monday they'll flow again. 
This time for a different reason. 

Matt Lozar is the former editor in chief of The Observer and is graduating with a degree in management information systems. This summer he will be an intern at the Baseball Hall ofFame before going to gradu­ate school in Buffalo, N.Y. at Canisius College and studying for a degree in sports adminis­tration. 1/e thanks his friends for the count­less memories and shenanigans. He thanks the staff at The Obsemer for their endless hours and unmatched dedication. Finally, he thanks his mom, dad and two younger broth­ers for always believing in him, no matter. what. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Commencement Weekend Events 
Friday, May 13 

5:30 p.m. Co:mrnencement Band Concert, DPAC, Leighton Concert Hall 8 p.m. Liturgical Choir Conc:err, Basilica ofthe Sll.qed Hem 9 p.m. -a.m. GraduationDance, JACC NQ+th Dome '1" Saturday, .May 14 .•... /' );'b 9 a.m. -Noon ROTC Commissioning, JAC(:Sooth Dome 2 p.m.-3p.m. President's Reception,&k Center 
4:30p.m. .,~demic Procession, JACC South Dame 5 p.m. -6;30 p.m; l::ommencement Mass, JAQC South Dame 
6:45 p.m. -8 p.m. Graduation Dinner, JACC NO!th Dame and North Dining Hall 
9 p.m. Glee Oub Concert, DPAC, Leighton Concert Hall Sunday, l\1av 15 
12:30 p.m. Dist.ribution of Diplomas, JACC North Dame 
1:30 p.m. Academic Procession, JACC North Dome 2 p.m. -4 p.m. Commencement Ceren10ny, JACC South Dame 
SOURCE: University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Web sites 
Friday, Mav 13 I p.m. Nurses Pinning Ceremony, Church of Our Lady of Loretto 4 p.m. Baccalaureate Liturg)', Angela Athletic Facility 6:30 p.m. -9:30 p.m. Baccalaureate Dinner and Senior Reception, Student Center Saturday, l\1ay 14 8:30a.m., 9:I5 a.m., IO a.m., I0:45 a.m. Graduation Bnmch, Noble Family Dining Hall 
Noon Commencen1ent Ceremony, Court of LeMans Hall 
4:30 p.m. Sunday Vigil !v1ass, Regina Chapel Sunday, May 15 
9:45, II: I5 Stmday !\1ass, Churd1 of Otu· Lady of Loretto 
GRAHAM EBETSCHffhe ObseiVer 

Murray to receive University's Laetare Medal 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
Associate News Editor 
Fifty-one years ago, Joseph E. Murray became the first surgeon to perform a successful organ trans­plant, removing a kidney from one brother and giving it to his identical twin brother. For this and his many other accomplishments, Murray will receive Notre Dame's 2005 Laetare Medal at Sunday's commencement cere­
"Human lives and

mony. distinctively Catholic "Human lives and hopes have been contribution to his or hopes have been her intellectual or pro­
wonderfully

wonderfully invigor­fessional life. Ideally,
invigorated by 

ated by Joseph the person's profes­Murray's 1954 med­Joseph Murray's sional life would be ical triumph," one of service to oth­
I 954 medical 

University President ers," Jarret said.
triumph.''

Father Edward The recipi-Malloy said in a press ent of the 
brought to bear in the surgical arena are all gifts from God which this good doctor has made gifts to humankind." 
In _addition to his many scientific contributions, Murray is a man of deep Catholic faith, something the Laetare medal recognizes. 
In 1962, Murray performed the first successful kidney transplant using a kidney from a donor unre­lated to the patient. For the develop­ments made in lifesaving organ and tissue transplant techniques, he won the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine in 1990. 
"Dr. Murray's vision of medicine as a means to serve others, and his deep faith in God made him an excellent candidate. His faith is what provides the context for his work and has shaped his life," said Father Peter Jarret, counselor to Malloy. 
The award was created to recog­nize the contributions of men and women whose faith energizes their work, Jarret said. 
"A candidate for the Laetare Medal must be a practicing 
American Catholic who 
is said to have made a 

release. "The genius, Father Edward Malloy Laetare "His faith is what erudition and skill he University President Medal is provides the 
selected by a 

context for his 
committee comprised of representa­work and has tives from different aca­shaped his life." demic disciplines within the University, Jarret said 
Father Peter Jarret 
on behalf of the commit­tee. Counselor to the 
"The committee general­President 
ly solicits names from all the faculty and staff at the University, and then narrows down the field to two or three candidates. The officers of the University then vote based on the recommendations of the committee," Jarret said. 
The Laetare Medal is a unique University award -it is nearly always presented to someone out­
side the University, Jarret said. 
"By honoring this splendid gen­erosity, we mean to thank his bene­factor, who is ours as well," Malloy said. 
Established in 1883, the Laetare Medal is one of the oldest honors given to American Catholics who have made contributions to the arts and sciences in particular. Past recipients include President John F. Kennedy, Catholic Worker founder Dorothy Day and death penalty abo­litionist Sister Helen Prejean. 
"There are many people -poets, artists, musicians, scientists, schol­ars, statesmen, priests, religious, etc. -whose professional lives are animated by their Catholic faith and who seek through their professions to make the world a better place and to give glory to God," Jarret 
said. 
Murray, who was born in Milford, Mass., graduated from the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass., with concentrations in Latin, Greek, phi­losophy and English. He graduated from Harvard Medical School in 1943. After completing his surgi­cal training at 

Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, Murray served as a surgeon at the U.S. Army's Valley Forge General Hospital in Philadelphia from 1944-47. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

SOURCE: Department of Institutional Research factbook GRAHAM EBETSCHffhe Observer 
Friday, May 13, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



ND brings Gregorian to speak 
By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Ediwr 
A lnadnr, an author and a native Iranian, the multi­facetNl Vartan Gregorian will address Notre Dame's 2005 graduatns Sunday at the 
Univnrsity's 
,.,...,...,-.,,.,...,.__ !60th r~om­mnneement nxerdses. Gregorian, prnsident of thn Carnegie 
Corporation and former president of 
B r w n Gregorian
0 

University and the New York Publie 
Library, will bn the principal graduation spoaker. This wide varidy of high-ranking posi­tions makes him an ideal selection, University President Father Edward Malloy said in a prnss rnlnasn. 
"In all his many roles in public lifo, Dr. Gregorian has displayed extraordinary lead­nrship," Malloy said. "I know that his remarks will be an ideal capstorw for [our gradu­ates' I nd w~ational nxpnriences on our campus." 
Grngorian has served at the hlllm of New York's Carnegie Corporation sinee I1)97. The corporation, which was found­Pd in IIJ II, st~eks to earry out fourulnr Androw Carnegie's vision of philanthropy, which Carnngie said should aim "to do n~al and pr~rmanent good in tlw world." Awarding grants in four areas (educa­tion, international peace and sncurity, international devnl­opment and strengthening 
U.S. democracy), the eorpora­tion expects its fiscal year 2004-2005 grants to total over $HO million. 
From 1989 to 1997, Gregorian served as the presi­dnnt of Brown University, where he taught freshman and senior history seminars and a cours1~ on Alexis de Toequeville. In addition, he led capital eampaigns that helped triple the endowment there. 
Prior to that, Gregorian snrved for eight years as pres­ident of the New York Public Library -a system that has four rnsearch libraries and 83 circulating libraries. He is credited with pulling the library out of financial crisis. Gregorian was born to Armenian parents in Tabriz, Iran. Al'tnr receiving his ele­mnntary education there and his secondary education in Lebanon, he enrolled at Stanford University in 1956. lie graduated with honors just two years later. 
In 19(>4, he t)arrwd a doctor­ate in history and the humani­ti!1S, also from Stanford. 
(;regorian taught Europnan and Middle Eastern history for night years at San Franciseo State College, the University of California at Los Angeles and the University of Texas. lie then joined the University of Pennsylvania faculty. In 1972, hn became the founding dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences there; in 1972, he became the provost. 
Notre Dame has welcomed other academic ollicials in the past, such as former Yale University Prnsident Kingman Brewster, Jr. in 1972, former Harvard University President Derek Bok in 19H7 and Stanford Provost (now Secretary of State) Condoleezza Rice, a Notre Dame alumna. 
Father Peter Jarret, coun­selor to Malloy, said Notre Dame's emphasis on intellec­tualism in choosing com­mencement speakers reflects the University's values. 
"Given Notre Dame's aca­demic reputation," he said, "that's the type of person that would eome here." 
Gregorian has received myr­iad accolades and grants dur­ing his career, including hon­ors from U'.S. presidents. In 1998, President Bill Clinton awarded Gregorian with the National Humanities Medal; last year, President Gnorge W. Bush awarded him the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian award. 
Gregorian is the author of "Emergenee of Modern Afghanistan: Polities of Heform and Modernization, 1HH0-194(,," "Islam: A Mosaic, Not a Monolith" and his auto­biography, "The Hoad to !lome." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

Squires returns to SMC to address graduates 
By NICOLE ZOOK Assistant News Editor 
Not for the first time, graduating Saint Mary's seniors will hear words of wisdom from a fellow Belle dur­ing commencement. 
Honorary degree redpient Janet 
Endress Squ­ires, a physieian and 1972 gradu­ate of the College, will deliver the 2005 commencement address tomor­row. Squires joins a list of 


notable Saint Squires Mary's women who have returned to their alma mater to give such a speech, indud­ing author and 2003 speaker Adriana Trigiani and last year's speaker, Xerox Vice Presidnnt Diann Daly McGarry. 
Commem~ement Committen Chair Susan Dampeer, said Squims was chosen following a nnarly year-long selection proeess. 
"We send out requeslc;; fill' names, and they are solicited from the Board of Trustees, faculty and staff and students," she said. "That's the first step. Then the president's oflke reviews [candidates! and verifies their eredrmtials." 
Verified eandidates are referrnd to the College's academic affairs mun­dl, trusteeship council of the Board of Trustees and then tho full Board for further reviow. 
Any names approved arn added to a li'it of potnntial spnakors ti>r Ow year. llowever, this does not nncns­sarily ensliro an honorary dogron. Names on the list rmnain aetive fi1r up to live years, mlfl aw1ml redpi­ents are selected yearly by the College's prnsidont. 
Dampeer said Squires was "rne­ommendBd many limos" for her deop eommilmont to oducation and remains a "really prominent woman" and alum ofthr~ Collngo. 
MarkBting Communications Director Niek Farmnr said he believes Squires is an oxeollent choice fi1r ~,rradua.tion spnaker and will greatly add to tlw eermuony. 
"Saint Mary's is proud to wekomn Dr. Squires baek to campus," lw said. "She's a prominent physician, an educator and a strong voke fhr ehildrnn, and I think shn'If otli1r an inspiring mossage to tho Class of 2005." 
Squirns i'i tl1n dimdor of tl11~ divi­sion of ehild advoeaey for the Childmn's llospit.al of PitL'iburgh and a profi1ssor of podiatric modidnn at tho Pitl'>burgh Sehool of Mndidno. 
She has botm rm~oJ..rnizod national­ly fi>r hor work with abusml ehildnm and ehildn~n with IIIV allnr sorving as dirnrtor of thn Univnrsity ofTexa'> Southwnstorn Modiml Cnntnr's podi­atric IIIV elinie, program for Hnfi~rral and Evaluation of Abusod Childrnn (HEACII) and division chid" of tho · Univorsity's Connral Ac;admnie Pndiatrks. 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 

Expresses its deep Thanks to the following seniors for their hard work and dedication over the years. 
Mary Allen  Meghanne Downes  Kelly Nelson  
Anikka Ayala  Mike Flanagan  Katy Onstad  
Julie Bender  Teresa Fralish  Angela Saoud  
Chuy Benitez  Carrie Franklin  Becca Saunders  
Christie Bolsen  Rick Friedman  Jus tin Sch uver  
Andrew Borys  Mike Harkins  Chad Silker  
Andrea Brault  Joe Hettler  Matthew Solarski  
Jessie Cisewski  Katie Knorr  Maria Smith  
Jim Coulter  Matt Lozar  Kenyatta Storin  

And wishes them the 
~est ojLy~~e years to come 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 13, 2005 
Eschenauer, Adatns graduate at top of SMC senior class 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saim Mary's Editor 
For the first time in 17 years, two Saint Mary's students have been named co-valedictorians for a graduating class. 
Seniors Dawn Eschenauer and Julia Adams topped the Class of 2005 rankings, which includes 368 students, with identical GPAs to the fifth decimal place. Both will deliver speeches on com­mencement day. 
The co-valedictorians were notified about the honor several months ago, but the official announcement was made to the College community May 1 during Honors Convocation. 
Eschenauer called walking up on stage during the honors cere­mony, where she was also awarded the creative writing prize by the English writing department, a bit overwhelming. 
"It was such a blur, I don't even remember," Eschenauer said. 
A native of Corunna, Ind., Eschenauer said as a senior in high school, Saint Mary's offered her exactly what she was looking for in a college. 
"I guess I just liked everything I read about it," Eschenauer said. "I liked the idea of going to a women's college, and I liked that it was small." 
The philosophy and English writing major said as a first year student, she never expected to become her class valedictorian and she is very excited about the honor. 
"I see it as a responsibility," Eschenauer said. "I want to rep­resent my class really well." 
As a Saint Mary's student, Eschenauer was a member of the collegiate choir and worked as a volunteer for Reading Corps. 
She will begin a graduate pro­gram in philosophy in the fall at the University of Chicago. 
"[I am going to miss] all of the people," Eschenauer said. "I have met the most wonderful people here, both professors and students." 
Adams, a biology major and a chemistry minor, is well known among faculty and students on campus not just for her academ­ic excellence, but also for her prowess on the golf course. 
The Peoria, Ill., native is a four-year member of the Saint Mary's golf team and helped lead the team to eighth-and fourth­place finishes at the national championship in 2004 and 2003, respectively. She is also this year's MIAA low medalist and is currently competing at the national championships with her teammates in North Carolina. 
Maintaining perfect grades while simultaneously competing as an athlete on the highest level required· carefully balancing studying and training. 
"It took a lot of discipline on my part," Adams said. "[just work to try and do my best at everything. I can never really settle if I know I can do better." 
Weekends spent traveling dur­ing the spring season left Adams with what she described as a "stressful" weekday schedule of homework and studying. 
"The teachers were really sup­portive of me missing class and doing makeup work," Adams said. 
Like Eschenauer, Adams said she never anticipated being named co-valedictorian but was extremely pleased. 
"I guess it just sort of hap­pened," Adams said. "I didn't even think about it until I got the letter in the mail a couple of months ago. My parents were excited, probably more excited than I was. They are very proud." 
Adams begins medical school in the fall at Loyola of Chicago and intends to spend time abroad during service work in the medical field. 
"There is a lot I am going to miss [about Saint Mary's]." Adams said. "I am definitely going to miss competitive golf. And I am going to miss the beau­tiful environment and my friends.... It has been great." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

f<U.S.Cellular 
, WI, connect with -yatt. 
$20 discount offer is only valid for the first month of TalkTracker plans $40 and higher. After the first month, customer is responsible for the original monthly access fee. Promotional offer requires activation of anew TalkTracker service with $30 activation fee. Unlimited CALL ME Minutes promotion is only available on TalkTracker plans $40 and higher. Unlimited CALL ME Minutes are not deducted from packaged minutes and are only availaple in the local calling area. Unlimited Nights and Weekends promotion Is only available on TalkTracker plans $40 and higher. Night and Weekend Minutes are valid Monday-Friday 9pm to 5:59am and all day Saturday and SUnday and are available in local calling area. Unlimited Text Messaging is available for $5.95 per month. By using text messaging you agree to be bound by all terms and conditions viewable at www.uscellular.com/Messagingterms. 400 Bonus Minutes requires activation of a new TalkTracker plan $40 and higher. Bonus Minutes expire 60 days from last refill and are available in the local calling area only and are !!Sed alter package minutes. Promotional phone offer requires activation of anew TalkTracker serv­ice. Promotional Phone Is subject to change. Umited Ume offer. Restrictions may apply. For TalkTracker coverage and restrictions, see the coverage map and brochure available in U.S. 'Cellular stores and authorized agenls. @2005 U.S. Cellular Corporation 

friday, May 13, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Schaerer selected to give ND's 2005 valedictory address 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
A~sodate News Editor 
Hesearching alone in the basemPnt of Malloy llall. sen­ior l~nrique Schaerer "just about got up and did a danee" upon n~ading the e-mail notify­ing him of his snlnetion as llw University's 2005 Valedicto­rian. 
"As you ean imagine, I was beside myself with joy," Srluwrer said. "I thought to myself, 'Wow! This is one of those truly big moments in life!' 'Thrilled' would be an 
uttderstatnm•~nt." 
T lw p o I i ti c a I s c i e n c e a n d linanw double major boasts a perfect 4.0 G.P.A., a reflection of his dedication to his aca­demic career over the last four years. 
"It's funny, people sometimes gnt tlw imprnssion that I study all the limn. Nothing could be further from thn truth," Srltanrer said. "NIHHIIess to say, I do work hard in school. I take my studies very seriously. But I'm one of those 'work hard, play hard' kind of guys." 
Seluwrer was chosen from an original pool of 16 other exemplary students, some of whom chose not to compete. The group was narrowed down to the top three candidatns, and following a proeoss he described as "rigorous, albeit straightforward and well organiznd," Schaernr was cho­
S«Ht. 
Candidates were invited to 
participate in the nomination process just before spring break and all resumes, letters of recommendation and speeches were required to be submitted by the first week of April, Schaerer said. 
"I am vnry 11xeited about my spe«~ch. It is not your typical valedictory address. I think it cnlebratns Notre Dame while challenging tho University to strive for great excellence and more inclusiveness," Schaer11r said. "The speech speaks direetly to my own values and b«~linfs, so it did not take me too long to write. It sort of flowed organically from my own exp1~riences." 
Schaerer said the main themes of his speech are eom­munity and diversity. 
"I really hope to move somP hearts on Sunday," he said. 
As tho son of 1981 immi­grants to America, Schaerer was tho first member of his family to attend Notre Dame. 
"Truth be told, I wanted to bn valedictorian more for [my family! than for myself." Schaerer said. "I think my achievements are a testament to my upbringing, to the disci­pline and love with which my parents raised me. They were the ones who first taught me to dream big dreams." 
While at Notre Dame, Schaerer was involved in numerous extracurricular activiti11s. As a fr11shman and sophomore, Sehaerer held Class Council positions, was active in the Student International Business Council and was a member of the Knights of Columbus. In his senior year, he served as Hesident Assistant in O'Neill Family llall. An avid runner, Schaerer hopes to compoto in his fourth marathon next spring. 
"I also h11ld two research assistant positions in philoso­phy/biology and political sci­eneP," Sehaerer said. 
For his philosophy and biolo­gy work, he was advised by Professor Kristin Shrader FrechPtte. Professor Anthony 
Messina served as  his thesis  
advisor.  
Sehaerer  was  recently  

awarded the llclen Kellogg Prize for best senior thesis in the field of comparative poli­ties for his work on immigra­tion and political extremism in Spain. 
Schaerer was also involved with service work through the Center for Social Concerns, which helped him become a mentor to disadvantaged chil­dren at the local youth center, La Casa de Amistad. 
Following graduation, Schaerer will head to New Haven, Connecticut, where he will begin Yale Law School in the fall. 
"The people there are amaz­ing, and I am very much look­ing forward to this next step in my life," Sehaerer said. "My political science and finance background will serve me well in law school, since my inter­ests are so eclectic -interna­tiona!, corporate, labor rela­tions, civil rights and immigra­tion law." 

Though excited about begin­ning a new chapter in his life, Schaerer said he will miss Notre Dame, the school he originally chose for the "dose­knit community with a good sense of balance." 
"I will miss the p11ople the most. I have met some remarkable peoplo hore at Notre Dame over the past sev­eral years," Schaeror said. "Here, people nncourago active participation in not only academics, but also athlnties, social evonts and spiritual activities. This is the right place to grow as a wholn pnr­son, to become a well-rounded human being." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 13, 2005 
Four-star general Martin to swear in ne-w ROTC officers 
By NICOLE ZOOK Assistant News Editor 
While many graduating Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have dedicated the next year of their lives to service, a select group of young men and women will be undertaking four or more years of a completely differ­ent kind of service after grad­uation-military service. 
Eighty senior members of the Notre Dame Air Force, Army and Navy Reserve Officer Training Corps units will be commissioned as Second Lieutenants or ensigns Saturday in a public, tri-mili­tary ceremony. Air Force Major William Zimmerman said the ceremony is "steeped in tradition." 
"It's a great ceremony for family and friends to recog­nize all the hard work they have done for the last four years," he said. · Air Force ROTC will com­mission 35 new Lieutenants, while Army ROTC will com­mission 19 and Navy HOTC will commission 24 ensigns, the first officer rank. The Marine Corps plans to com­mission two Second Lieutenants Saturday. Their names have not yet been released. 
During the joint ceremony, seniors entering all four branches of the military will take their· oath of office together, which Naval Lieutenant Tim Joyce said will firmly place the responsibility of protecting the nation on their shoulders. 
"A commission is a commis­sion of an office conferred upon the individual," Joyce said. "[It's] not accepting an honor, but freely accepting the responsibiJity of that office. You're serving the greater good of the [military] itself." 
Four-star General Gregory 

S. Martin, commander of the Air Force Materiel Command at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio, will swear in the new officers. Martin grad­uated from the U.S. Air Force Academy in 1970 and earned his master's degree in busi­ness management from Central Michigan University. 
During his extensive mili­tary education, Martin com­pleted Air Command and Staff College, National Security Management and the National War College. He is a master parachutist and command pilot, having flown in 161 combat missions and com­manded the 67th Tactical Fighter Squadron, 479th Tactical Training Wing and 33rd and 1st !ighter wings. 
Before assuming his com­mand at Wright-Patterson, Martin served as commander of U.S. Air Forces in Europe and Allied Air Forces in Northern Europe. lie is highly decorated, having earned the Distinguished Service Medal, Defense Distinguished and Superior Service Medals, Legion.of Merit, Distinguished Flying Cross, Meritorious Service Medal, Air Medal, Air Force Commendation Medal, Medal of Commander of Order and Valor, Gold Medal of Merit, Legion of Honor, Cross of Merit and NATO Meritorious Service Medal. 
"!Martini will officiate over the ceremony," Army Major Gary Masapollo said. "The general will raise his right to do was to fly, and what bet­hand and swear all four serv­ter way than through the ice branches in together." Navy, where you get the 
Cadets and midshipmen will world's best training while then walk across the stage making a positive difference individually to shake Martin's in the world?" hand and have their branches Saint Mary's senior Michelle and first assign-Stanforth, also in ments announ­Navy ROTC, will 
ced. "The general will train at Anti­
According to Submarine
raise his hand and
Masapollo and Warfare Officer Zimmerman, school in San
swear all four assignments service branches in Diego in June could include before heading to
together.,,
everything from her first station pilot training to in Pearl Harbor. reserve duty, Major Gary Masapollo She called the sending gradu-Army ROTC commissioning ates to climes as ceremony a varied as Hawaii, "transition" for South Carolina, Kansas, graduating seniors and said Alaska, England and Japan. she understands the responsi­
Graduating Notre Dame sen­bility it will confer upon her ior Midshipman Chris Heck classmates. said he is eagerly anticipating "It's honestly overwhelming. beginning his assignment at I think the best word for it is Pensacola Naval Air Station in anxious," she said. "I am Florida for flight school. excited to move on, to be a 
"I am looking forward to commissioned officer, to be serving my country, as well as able to head on into new and starting my aviation career," exciting experiences, yet I'm he said. "All I've ever wanted nervous for all that awaits in this transition -the reality that we are at war, that my job is one that greatly affects the lives of others, and that it means moving away from all that I have been familiar with." 
Stanforth also said she feels that attending Saint Mary's for the past four years will have a significant positive impact on her new role as a military officer. 
"It has been at Saint Mary's that I have better developed confidence in myself-not just as a person, but as a woman. I have come to better know who I am, what I stand for and in what direction I want to continue to grow in," she said. "I have been blessed here with the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame communi­ty in that I have been sur­rounded by not just fellow students, but a family, one that has inspired me to dis­cover myself and grow through relationships with others. It is this confidence, these relationships and this sense of family that will stay female midshipman in the nation, is just one example of the Notre Dame HOTC pro­gram's stellar servicemember production. 
with  me  and  make  me  a  
stronger leader."  
Stanforth,  ranked  third  

"!Notre Dame isl one of the top 15 percent of the nation," Masapollo said. "Our individ­ual students are a reflection of the figures." 
Joyce, a 1999 Notre Dame graduate, said Notre Dame students possess the qualities necessary to become excellent military leaders and that they are taught the idea of service extends to the military. 
"From all the schools around here [Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Valparaiso, IUSB and Bethel], we obviously get the best and the brightest, and it leads that our cadets are going to do great things," Zimmerman said. "I could see some of these people reaching stars." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 
~ 
GAIANO!SMC 
THE GAY AND LESBIAN ALUMNI Of THE UNIVERSITY Of NOTRE DAME AND ST, MARY'S COLLEGE 
The Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College 
Congratulates 
all the lesbian, gay, hi and transgender graduates of 2005, and their graduating friends and supporters... 
and Welcomes 
you, your family and friends into our strong and growing alumni organization. 
GALA-ND/SMC (Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College) is an educational non-profit membership organization with nearly 1000 members representing alumni, faculty, staff and families of the University and College. GALA·ND/SMC has no official affiliation with-and receives no financial support from-the University or College. Our strength and support comes from our membership. To receive your wekoming first-year membership packet and for more information about our organization, visit our web site at: http://galandsmc.org/ e-mail us at: administrator@galandsmc.org or write us at: GALA-ND/SMC, P.O.Box 1651, New York, NY 10185-1651 
Irish Sports Report is your inside guide to all there is to 
know about Notre Dame sports. With exclusive photos, award­winning national writers and unmatched "on-the-ground" resources, Irish Sports Report takes you beyond the game and behind the scenes -insight you can't get anywhere else. Plus, our Web site provides the latest news and makes it easy to access any archived articles you may have missed. Irish Sports Report is a must-have subscription for all true Irish sports fans. 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
FOUR YEARS IN REVIEW 
Friday, May I}, 2005 
1 
OBSERVER 

TERROR HITS HOME 
'tf•. -,, "'"t·l~ ,...1·--rfY~>NII -hllff"• <'' .••• ~ .... 1\b.Jitl'~·· 

The top 10 Observer news stories from the 2001-05 academic years page 7 
Campus responds to terrorist attacks 
NotrP. Damn and Saint Mary's rnspondnd in a dramatic fashion to ilw terrorist attacks on the World Trade 
Center,  the  Pnntagon  and  rural  
Pnnnsylvania.  
Classes  were eaneni!P.d  mid-session  

as n~presnntaiivP.s from the registrar's office visited individual elassrooms. Seven thousand students and faculty att1111ded a Mass on South Quad at 3 
p.m. on the day of the attacks, which was conenlnbratP.d by all campus priests and Auxiliary Bishop John D'Arcy. Throughout the day, students streamed to the Grotto and students 
September 11,2001 
took advantage of' free cab service to donate blood. 
Phone lines and lntPrrwt connections at both Notre Damn and Saint Mary's were ovnrwhnlmnd as students callnd home to check on their families and friends. 
Like all athletic events nationwide, Notre Damn's football game against Purdue on the following Saturday was cancelled as thf1 nation mourned thP. loss of' thousands of' citizens. At the Sept. 22 home football game against Michigan State, the entire stadium paused as University President Father Edward Malloy said a prayer and fans raised printnd Anwriean !lags into tlw sky in an 1went televised nationwide by NBC Sports. 
Four alumni w I' r n k iII e d in tlw attacks: Hobert Ferris, rlass of' 11Jh2. who workPd on ilw I 02nd lloor of' t.lw south townr of' tlw World Tradn CnntPr; Army Linutnnant Colonel S. Nnil llyland Jr., class of' 1977, who worknd at tlw J>p,ntagon; and J>Ptnr Bataean, class of 1983, and Dora Marin Mmu~haca, dass of 1977, who were killnd on Arnnriean Airlines Flight 77, which crashed into the PP.ntagon. 
3 Mooney chosen to 

New alcohol
Malloy steps 
4

2 
policy unveiled
succeed Eldred

down as president 
University 
Thf1 Saint Mary's 
Father Mark Poor­

President Father 
Board of Trustees 
man introduced 

Edward Malloy an­
selected Notre Dame 
swneping changes to 

nounend at the spring 
vice president and 
the aleohol policy 

Board of Trustees 
associate provost 
including a ban on 

meeting that he in­
hard liquor, a canenl­

Carol Mooney as thf1 
tnnds to step down 
11th president of the 
lation of in-hall 

Juru1 30, 2005 after 
College on Dee. 26. 
danees and a revi­

s11rving his 18th year 
sion of thn tailgaiting

College President 
as president. The 
Marilou Eldred 
policy to allow of-age 

Board chose Father 
students to host tail­

announced her retire­
John .Jenkins from 
ment in Mareh 2003, 
gate parties in spnd­

among sP.veral eandi­
l'ied lots. Thn ded­

which launched a 
dates to succeed 
sion sparked nHteh

nine-month search 
Malloy as the 
process for her suc­
eontrovnrsy amongst 

University's 17th 
students and within
cessor. 
president. 
student govnrnmnnt. 

December 26,2003 
March 18, 2002

April 30, 2004 



Monk moves on 

~··: ..=. 
,:· .,...L••:n.l.\t,_:":":: .c·.• ., i·H.Y" UJtt·, 
• I 

II 
~.n:L-(~·-~~·.::: :.~...­
' .. ·.·•.:--:..-::-..::­_·;~ " . .. -.... '":"''' ~-... 

...a,·_-----: ~ • . .; ..........:... . • .. ·­

8 Elam convicted of 
Scully resigns as 
'Gay? Hoe by Me'
9 
10

sexual battery 
executive VP 

held on campus 
0Bs1 fRVER 

St>nltn•, ~cdminl•tr.afOOllllffl dMdt-d OW'r dorM 
. .. 
.al..-.~
~o;:":L":J:::':.":.l""..=-' ..
_ 

!'tt~ .tdd un-u.mput tot>-. to d..uly lltUdiM l',.u..~·· 

.,/l,•ulrllfJ 
"'I'J'···· 
lllt'"'i.h 

6 
Freshman's death 
7 Boat Club busted5 Dome scaffolding 
stuns University 

by excise police
provokes uproar 
On March 7, the 
Chad Sharon, a 

.....
Golden Dome began 
freshman from Fish­
tt 

to undP.rgo its first 
er Hall, disappeared 
Shipwn.><:ked: lloat Club busted ~~:
regilding since 
Dec. 12, 2002 after 

1988. A rift 
attending a party on 
between seniors 
Corby Street. Fol­
and tlw administra­
lowing an extensive 
tion grew, but was 
two-month search 
lessened when 
headed by Notre 
Executive Vice 
Dame Secu­
President John 
rity/Police, construc­
Affleck-Gravns 
tion workers found 
agreed the scaf­
his body floating in 
folding could be 
the St. Joseph's 
partially removed 
River under the 
for graduation. 
Angela Bridge. 

March 30, 2005 
February 12, 2003 
Police raided The Boat Club early in the morning .Jan. 
24. Morn than 200 eitations were issund to Notre Damn and Saint Mary's stu­dents. The bar was known as a popular undnragp, drinking haven for students on both eampusP.s. Many of those who were dtnd were also sued by tlw owner of the dub. 
January 24, 2003 


·.._.,.,11 .•,..........~...,.,,.............~-... 
-,.......... .............. 
··~~ ... · ·-..-.._ .."....~· 
----· --~-· --­
··'"' ·--· ... . . ·~ ---~-~--~­

-;~ ~ .:: :: --~-~ -~· ~ __.........__...._ ...... 
' ·~ 

#' -:-~. .,. ·" • 
-. (: ' . 1 .• 


Abram Ehun, one of 
Exeeutive Vice 
On March 18, 

four football players 
QssERVERi~:· PresidHnt Father 
approximately I,700 

accused of sexual 

Timothy Scully re­
blazn orange T­

assault in March 
signed May 2 dun to 
shirts with tho nws­

2002, was found 
an apparent power 
sage "Cay? Finn hy 

guilty of sexual bat­
struggle in the 
Me" wnn~ worn hy 

University's leader­
tfll"y on Aug. 30. 
students and f<u:ulty 

However, he was 
ship. A report 
membnrs. Distrib­

aequitted or conspira­
investgating Scully's 
uted in dmnonstra­

behavior, ineluding
cy to mmmit rapo and 
tion of solidarity 

his confrontation
criminal deviate eon­
with homosexual 

with a reporter, was 
members of thn

duet. Donald Dykes 
was found not guilty 
to be delivered to 
Notre Dame commu­

trustees and would
on all ehargns and the 
nity, the shirts 

other two players' 
have eleared him of 
prompted earn pus­

suil'i were dropped. 
wrongdoing. 
wide debate. 

August 30, 2003 
May 3,2003 
March 18, 2004 


page 8 The Observer + THE YEAR IN REVIEW Friday, May 13, 2005 
Muslim professor's visa revoked. Ebersol, dad hurt in plane crash, brother dies. Provost to leave for Wake Forest. 


By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN News Writer 
Tariq Ramadan's visa revoked 
Tariq Ramadan, a prominent but con­troversial Muslim scholar scheduled to teach at the University last fall, had his visa revoked by the State Department July 28 and as a result did not come to Notre Dame. 
Ramadan was hired in last spring to raise the profile and diversifY the curricu­lum of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, and was initially granted a visa after passing a thorough investiga­tion by both the Department of Homeland Security and the State Department. 
Dean Boyd, Homeland Security spokesman, did not comment on the specifics of the decision made about Ramadan, a Swiss citizen, and University spokesman Matt Storin said he did not know why Ramadan was not allowed in the country. 
Ramadan had been accused by Jewish groups in France and the United States of spreading anti-Sematic and Islamic mili­tant ideas. Kroc director Scott Appleby said it seemed as though the visa revoca­tion was a last-second political move by Ramadan's opponents. 
University President Father Edward Malloy expressed frustration about the situation. Notre Dame was not given a reason for the denial of the visa, and Malloy said Ramadan was not informed either. However, a senior government offi­cial was anonymously quoted in The New York Times, saying that the recommenda­tion to revoke the visa was not based on Ramadan's beliefs, but on "his actions." Storin said he did not know what actions the official was referring to. 
The scholar reapplied for a work visa to teach at Notre Dame after he was encouraged by the University to do so, but he never did teach at Notre Dame this year, as he resigned from the faculty Dec. 13 with no word from the State Department with regards to his visa. 
SafeBus plan does not come to fruition 
Despite student government's efforts, SafeBus, a key component of then-stu­dent body president Adam Istvan and vice president Karla Bell's administrative plans, did not materialize. 
The proposal was that a University­sponsored bus, SafeBus, would shuttle students to and from off-campus loca­tions. Initially, the proposal called for the bus to run from 1 a.m. to 4 a.m. on 30­minute intervals and make approximately 10 stops at campus and various bars and apartment complexes. 
Istvan and Bell took this proposal to the fall meeting of the Board of Trustees, where it was met with harsh criticism. The Board questioned the timing, feasibil­ity and logistics of the SafeBus plan, say­ing that Istvan and Bell should not have broached the topic with trustees before pursuing the plan through usual student government and University channels. Trustees also said the proposal sounded too much like other van systems that failed in the past at Notre Dame. They cited concerns of student behavior on the buses as well as the question of who would staff them, saying that the University and Notre Dame Security/Police could not tolerate under­age drinking. 
After the Board of Trustees meeting, Istvan and Bell took the Board's sugges­tion to pursue a contract with a private bus company, contacting Transpo, which currently provides bus service to stu­dents. However, this never materialized and SafeBus fell by the wayside mostly due to liability issues. 
Ebersol family involved in plane crash 
Notre Dame senior Charlie Ebersol sur­vived a November charter plane crash that killed his youngest brother Teddy, 14, and two crewmen and injured his father, NBC Sports Chairman Dick Ebersol. 
The crash happened during takeoff in Montrose, Colo., as the Ebersols were returning to South Bend Nov. 28 after a gathering at the Notre Dame football game that Saturday against the University of Southern California, where son Willie Ebersol, 18, is a freshman. The family had stopped in Colorado to drop off Dick Ebersol's wife, actress Susan Saint James of the 1980s television series "Kate and Allie." 
The private jet, carrying six people, crashed during takeoff from Montrose Regional airport, which is located approx­imately 185 miles southwest of Denver and serves the Telluride Ski Area. 
The plane skidded sideways after impact, ripping off the cockpit and one of the wings, an eyewitness told the Associated Press. 
Teddy Ebersol was ejected from the plane and died instantly, Montrose County Coroner Mark Young told the Montrose Daily Press, and Dick Ebersol was pulled out of the wreckage by Charlie Ebersol. 
Teddy Ebersol's body was found the Monday after the crash underneath the wreckage following an extensive search of the wooded crash site, Young said. 
Charlie Ebersol, 21, played a voeal role in Notre Dame student government, twice running for student body president and losing by narrow margins in 2003 and 2004. During the 2003-04 term, he served as manager of the Student Union Board and was a member of the Council of Representatives. 
Dick Ebersol, 57, became president of NBC Sports in 1989, and most recently worked with Notre Dame football to nationally televise home games on NBC. In December 2003, he, athletic director Kevin White and Malloy worked to a sign a contract extension through 2010. Notre Dame makes controversial foot­ball coaching change 
For the first time ever, Notre Dame fired its football coach before his original contract expired, ousting Tyrone 
2004. 

Willingham after three seasons at the helm of the Irish Nov. 30. 
Willingham, the first black head coach in any sport at Notre Dame, was fired by Notre Dame's senior leadership after a 21-15 career record. 
The firing of Willingham sparked much debate on campus, including a protest by approximately 30-40 ethnic minority stu­dents on the steps of the Main Building. They carried posters reading "$ cost ND its integrity," "Never before, never again" and "We want Ty back." 
Chandra Johnson, assistant to Malloy, shaved her head to protest the firing, say­ing she would remain bald until the Irish win a national championship. She said the firing process was flawed and that as a result, diversity at the University will suffer. T-shirl<> critical of Notre Dame and in support of Willingham were also dis­tributed. 
Malloy said he was embarrassed to be the president of Notre Dame after Willingham was fired, saying that he did not make the decision to terminate the coach. Malloy and University President­elect Father John Jenkins had a policy in plaee that decisions that affected Notre Dame post-July 1 (Jenkins' takeover date) would fall to Jenkins. 
New England Patriots offensive coordi­nator Charlie Weis was hired Dec. 12 to replace Willingham after a widely publi­cized coaching search. Weis, a 1978 grad­uate of the University, balanced both jobs until after the Super Bowl, which the Patriots won. 
After Weis was hired, Malloy said the new coach had his full support. I.Hatch to take over at Wake I=orest 
University Provost Nathan Hatch, the second-ranking officer in the Notre Dame administration, said in January he will leave the University July 1 to become the president of Wake Forest University. 
Hatch, who joined the Notre Dame fac­ulty in 1975, has overseen Notre Dame's academic affairs as provost since 1996. He replaees Thomas Hearn, Jr., who announced his retirement from Wake Forest last April after serving as president since 1983. 
Hatch cited the fact that Wake Forest has a similar environment to Notre Dame as one of the factors that attracted him there. The University, located in Winston­Salem, North Carolina, has an enrollment of 6,500 students, smaller than Notre Dame, but has religious roots, as it was founded as a Baptist institution but became independent in the 1980s. 
Hatch served as tbe associate dean of the College ofArts and Letters from 1983­88 and the acting dean in 1988-89. He was also elected as the University's vice president for graduate studies and research in 1989 before he became provost. 
Notre Dame has not named a new provost, and Jenkins, head of the search committee, said it is unlikely Hatch's replacement will be identified before July 
Summer 2004-Notre August 2004-For the second straight year, Notre Dame rops the Sept. 30, 2004-First Year of Studies Dean Nov. 27, 2004-Notre Dame's Dame decides not to renew Princeton Review's '~-\lternative Lifestyles Not An "-\lternative" category. Eileen Kolman announces she will retire in football team is defeated by USC the athletic department's $50,000 August 2004 -Due to rising numbers of both seniors June after her third five-year contract expires.48-10. It is widely reported that yearly sponsorship agreement with staying on campus and accepted female freshman, most Oct. 7, 2004 -The Board of Trustees harshly questions the .loss prompted a meetmg Wlth 
Taco Bell because of-women's dorms faced an overcrowding crisis this year. the tinting, feasibility and logistics of student government's Uruverslty Presldent-elecr Father concerns raised Subsequently, the Office of Residence Life was forced Notre Dame SafeBus proposal. The idea was one of John Jenki.n: and selected_ hy the Progressive to convert everv available studv lounge into a livable the major platforms of the leadership of student body members ot the Board ot Student Alliance. -:::,~~~ space and raise.many double o-ccupancy rooms to triples. president Ad;un Istvan and vice president Karla Bell. Trustees to discuss the possibility 
Sept. 12, 2004 -Ryan O'Connor, a 2002 Nov. 8, 2004 -A male is reported ro be in 
2004 
July 28, 2004 -The State 
Notre Dmne graduate, was struck and killed Pasquerilla West during the hours of 7 and 
Department revokes the 
by a car driven by a Saint Mary's sophomore 8 a.m., apparently vandalizing the dorm with
visa of Tariq Ramadan, a 
\Vhen he ran into the street after leaving a l obscenities and frightening several residents. 
prominent but controversial 
ocal bar. 

Muslim scholar scheduled to teach Islamic philosophy and 

Ebersol, and killed his youngest brother ethics this fall at Notre Dame. Teddy Ebersol, 14, and two crC\vmen in Montrose, Colo. 
Compiled from Observer reports 



-~--------------~----..... 
Friday, May 13, 2005 The Observer + THE YEAR IN REVIEW page 9 
Trustee charged with domestic battery. Dome begins regilding, seniors speak out. Monk remembered in last year. 
e e
In ev1ew 
•2005 
I..hmkins also said that if nemssary, the st~arrh could oxtend until next fall with an intnrim or ading provost filling the role tmnporarily. 
Trustee charged with battery, resigns 
post 
Fornwr Notre Damn football AII­Anwriran and trustee Dave Duerson was rhargnd with w.;saulting his wife Feb. :~ at llw Morris Inn and as a result resiJ,,rned his post on llw Board ofTrustees. 
Duerson, a University trustee since 2001, voluntarily resigned his post all.er the ind­dont and is no longer the president of the MonoJ.,rram Club, where his tenn was set to expire in .June. 
lie WIL'i charged with two eounls of bat­tery and two counl'i of domestic battery, oach a chL'>S A misdem11anor. 
According to the prosecutor's supplemen­tal allidavit on the ea'ic, Duorson allegedly strw:k hi-.; wife, Alida Duerson, and pushed lwr out of their hotel room early that morn­ing. Slw W!L'i treatnd at a local hospital and relmL-.;ed. 
The Duersons were on campus f!1r the winter Board of Trustees meeting, and Dave Duerson, a member of the Board's Student Affairs Committe(l and Audit Committno, did not attend either of the trustees' sdwduled sessions. 
Dave Duerson deferred his initial eourt datA~ fbr tho rnisdmneanor a'isault charges until April 2K 
Davo Duerson, a 1983 Notre Dame J.,'I'ad­uato, is tho founder, president and CEO of Dunrson Foods, LLC, a high-volunHJ meat proeossor li1r mujor restaurants and retail ehaitL'>. lie got into business aller winning two Super Bowls in the NFL with the Chicago Bears (1 985) and New York Giants ( 1990) and earning NFL Man of the Year honors in IIJS7. 
I>avtJ Duerson also received the presti­gious Sorin Award from the Notre Dame Alumni Assodation in 2001. 
lie was well-known on campus lor his pointmf remarks about Notre Dame foot­ball. critidzing the administration for the firing of Willingham. Before that, he was part or thn Monogram Club's letter to the Univnrsity llmt eritidzed the way the foot­ball program WIL'i managed. Transition occurs at the top of the Church 
l'op11 .John Paul II p1L'ised away in April altnr 26 years at tlw helm of the Catholic Church. and Notrn Damn honored his papa­
t:y with mPmorial snrvicns aeross eampus. Tlw popn, who was well-known for his World Youth Days. WIL'> honomd in rosary praynrs. Masses and vespers at Notre 
Damn. 
Stud•~nts !'rom Notrn Damn and Saint Mary's who worn studying abroad lloeked to St. l'l'tnr's Squan• to witness .John Paul ll's I<L'>t days. 
.John Paul II W<L'> rnmnmberPd at Notre I>anw for his worldlitwss and his many traVPis. Notn~ Danw profi~ssors wnrn fim­tun~d in major publications as WPII as on nu~jor rwtworks to talk about .John Paul II and to pmHh•r his sw-.cnssor as t.hn papal ronl'laVP lliPl. 
Father Virgilio Eilzondo, a visiting profes­sor in Notrn Dame's Latino studios depart­ment, rncountnd his visit with the pope in 1987 in StUl Antonio, Texa'i. 
Notre Dame had University representa­tives at the funeral in Home -the Superior General or the Congregazione Di Santa Croce, Very Heverend Hugh Cleary, his two a<;sistanl'i and Father Carl Ebey, the procu­raf.tJr general ofthe Congregation. 
Eventually, the traditional white smoke arose, and German Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger wa<; chosen as the 265th pope. Taking the name of Benedict XVI, the new pope was seen by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's professors as a very conservative choiee. 
Hatzinger was described as a Vatican insider by some professors, and others saw him as an intellectual person and a thoughtful. spiritual individual. 
Dome regtldlng sparks debate 
Notre Dmne announced the Friday before spring break that the Golden Dome was going to be regilded for the 1Oh time in school history. The project, with an initial eost of $300,000, was necessary due to the deteriorating conditions of the Dome, according to University oflieials. 
The faet that the process would not be complel.tld until next fall prompted a severe backlash from the senior class, as many student.'> were upset that the Dome would be covered mseaffolding for their May graduation. 
Executive Vice President John Aflleck­Graves initially said there was no other way to do the repairs, saying that the landmark suffered structural damages and needed immediate attention. Senior da<;s president Darrell Scott met with Aflleck-Graves in late March with a proposal to take down the scaffolding one week before graduation day, allowing the Dome to be visible for commencnment. Then, the day aftor. the scaffolding would be rebuilt. Seott estimat­ed thi'i would add two weeks to the process. 
However, Allleck-Graves said the con­traef.t>rs estimat.t1d it would push the regild­ing back pa'it the deadline of Oct. 1. 
Th(ln on April 7. it was announced that the scaffi1lding would be partially removed in time for graduation so that the Dome itself eould be visible in its entirety. A'> a result. workers will be working longer hours so that an Oct. 1 completion date is ensured. 
That compromise was what Seott and student body president Adam Istvan initial­ly requested, but due to a miscommunica­tion. Allleek-Graves thought they wanted tho scallhlding removed !rom the drum of the Dome <L'> well. 
lie continued to work behind the scenes and eventually came up with this compro­mise, whieh Scott, Istvan and thn senior dtL'iS appredatnd and welcomed . 
Alter the aJ.,treement wa'i readwd, NDSP bngan an all-night guard at thn htL'>n of the Main Building aft11r it was reported that students Wtlro climbing the scafTolding. Ollieers dtnd sali1ty concerns 1L'i thoir main nmson f(,r doing so. 
New Student Center opens at Saint Mary's 
Arter months of anticipation, the new Student Center opened at Saint Mary's the Sunday aller spring break. 
The three-story building houses more than a dozen offices, induding the Shaheen Bookstore, First Source Bank. campus min­istry and student government. It is also home to meeting rooms and conference rooms lor student groups such as student government, the Blue Mantle and a work area for The Observer. There is also a new women's resource center to supplement the current LeMans Hall space. 
Construction began in early 2004 on the Student Center, and work on the interior was almost finished in February. Students now enter the dining hall through the main entrance ofthe Student Center. 
The new bookstore in the Student Center is twice the size of the old one, and as a result, students should expect to see double the merchandise. 
The Student Center is also home to a cyber cafe, where students have wireless Internet access. The cafe has grab-and-go style meals as well as an outdoor patio fac­ing LeMans. 
In addition to these oflices, the Student Center is home to the President's Dining Room, which has space for dining with about 60 visiting dignitaries and guests, a preparation area for catering and a terrace. 
Monk honored In final year as president 
In his last year at the helm of Notre Dame, Malloy was remembered fondly by students, faculty and administrators. 
At the end ~f March, Malloy was honored for his commitment to diversity with a reeeption in the Hesburgh Library. Malloy, who took office in 1987, was honored for his efforts to increase diversity at Notre Dame, as the presence of minority students on eampus increased from 7.7 percent of the student body in 1986 to 16.6 percent in 2004. according to statistics provided by the Office of Institutional Hesearch. 
Malloy was also honored at a farewell Ma<;s April 17, when all dorm Masses were caneelled so that students could attend the eampus-wide Mass. More than 3,000 peo­ple gathered in the Joyce Center to honor Malloy. 
During the Mass, Malloy spoke of the his­torical significance of the presidential tran­sition between him and Jenkins, as it is only Notre Dame's seeond in the la'>t 53 years. 
Student body president Dave Baron paid tribute to Malloy on behalf of the students, presenting three images of Malloy. Tho first WIL'> a gatekeeper, saying Malloy made the campus a weleoming place. The second was a eardboard cutout of Malloy playing basketball lbr Notre Dame, carried by sen­ior dass president Darrell Sc,ott. The final was Malloy's nickname, "Monk," which Baron used as a symbol of his spirituality. 
Jenkins takes over as University presi­dent on .July 1. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Jan. 14, 2005-f.-::eough fn:shman Dan Kish, 19, dies in an InJianapolis April 5, 2005 -Faculty Senate hospital after complications during heart surgery to implant a pacemaker. announces the formation of <t 
mach before hrs ongrnal contrau Jan. 21, 2005-l :niversity 
committee tasked with creating cxptrcd, tiring 'J~·ronc \\'illingham PrmT>st I\arhan I latch, rlw March 4, 2005 -Pn:sidcnt 
a new mech;Jnism for students <lfter three 'casom. The tiring of second-ranking ofticcr in the ( ;eorgc \X: Hush speaks 
to reYtew courses. Willingham, 1\lotrc Damt·'s first black Notre Dame.: administration, about Soci;tl St:cnrity at the 
April 19, 2005-Cardinal_loseph Ratzinger is
head coach 111 any sporr. sparks is named prt·sicknt at \X:ake Jm·cc Center in a non-elected successor to Pope John :au! IT and 
20 0 5

controversy on campus wtth students I'orest llniversitY after 30 l'nivcrsitY sponsored event. 
takes the name Pope Benedtet X\" I.
ami facultr. \·ears at ]\( •tn: Dame. Feb. 8, 2005 -Student ( ;overnment April 2 2005 -Pope john Paul II dies 
Dec. 14, 2004 -:\e\\' Feb. 16, 2005 -Vagina ' · · April 22, 2005 -\ssist;Ult Director launche' a free, one-month tnal o.f the after a 26-year term as pope. StuJents
I'.ngland Patriots "Ionolo!-,>ues author of Notre Dame Securin"/Police College Readership prog!fam. Tix· New abroad in Rome t1ock to St. Peter's 
-Eve Ensler speaks on Chuck I Iurley is tired ily the
offc.:nsi\'c.: coordinat< 1r 
York Times, USA Today and the Chicago Slluare, and the
and I ()7H 1\:otrl' I )arne campus, triggering llnivcrsity for allegedly being Tribune were made available to students University sends 
untruthful in an in\'l'Stigation in graduatt' (:harlie \\i:is protests.
each day in 14 locations on campus. representatives which former Notre Dame trustee
i~ hirc.:d a~ I\otre Dame's 
Feb. 10, 2005 -Notre Dame announces a 7 percent tuition increase for next ro the funeral. 
Dave Duerson was d1arged \vith an28th hc.:ad football coach. 
year. an increase of S2,622. Saint Mary's will increase tuition next year by 4 percent. 
incident at the Morris Inn.
GRAHAM EBETSCH/Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 13, 2005 
ND, SMC to present honorary degrees to 18 figures 
By KATE ANTONACCI and NICOLEZOOK Associate and Assistant News Editors 
In addition to the original 13 honorary degrees to be awarded at Notre Dame's May 15 com­mencement ceremony, University officials announced that outgoing University President Father Edward Malloy and outgoing University Provost Nathan Hatch will also be honored with degrees. 
Malloy has served as University president since 1987. In his 18­year tenure, the percentage of minority students more than dou­bled, University-administered financial aid saw a 1,000-fold increase, 27 new buildings were erected and 20 others were reno­vated. On a global level, Malloy was involved in discussions about the implementation of Ex Corde Ecclesiae, Pope John Paul ll's 1990 statement on Catholic higher education. 
Malloy led the Notre Dame com­munity through difficult times, such as Sept. 11, 2001, a bus acci­dent involving the women's swim team in 1992, which killed two studenl<>, and the removal of two executive vice presidents. 
Hatch, who first joined the University's faculty in 1975, will become president of Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, N.C., on July 1. Hatch is the third per­son to serve as provost, the No. 2 officer of the University after the president, since the position was created in 1970. 
''I'm just extremely grateful for the close working relationship that I've had with Nathan [Hatch] and the quality of the leadership he's provided, the pnople he has hirnd and attracted to Notre Dame, and I really think he's going to be a superb leader of Wake Forest as the president," Malloy said. 

Malloy credited Hatch with a significant portion of Notre Dame's recent successes. 
"Let me assure you, if you do a history of the most recent part of Notre Dame," Malloy said, "Nathan deserves a very impor­tant role or credit for a lot of good things that have gone on." 
In addition to Malloy, Hatch and commencement speaker Varian Gregorian, president of the Carnegie Corporation, Notre Dame will honor distinguished fig­ures -three women and 10 men -for their contributions in fields ranging from business, law and science to medicine, sports and entertainment, said Dennis Brown, associate director of news and information. 
Honorary degrees are ways of recognizing and honoring the accomplishments of various indi­viduals. Students, faculty and staff members am all allowed to nomi­nate a person for an honorary degree. 
"Each of the colleges submits recommendations for honorary degree recipients, and other sug­gestions can be submitted by any­one within the campus communi­ty," Brown said. 
During the process, Malloy and several officers then narrow down the group of nominees. They make the final decisions, which usually consists of 10 to 12 individuals who do not necessarily have a connection to the University, Brown said. 
Hank Aaron, the all-time leader for career runs in Major League Baseball who was elected to the Hall of Fame in 1982, will receive a doctorate oflaws. 
Cardinal Francis Arinze, a Nigerian who was considered a strong papal candidate before Pope Benedict XVI was selected and has been instrumental in pro­moting inter-religious dialogue, will also receive a doctorate of laws. 
Benjamin Carson, one of the top brain surgeons in the world known for successfully separating Siamese twins joined at the back of the head in 1987, will receive a doctorate of science. 
Judge Robert Carter, a U.S. District Court judge for the Southern District of New York known for his involvement in the civil rights movement, will receive a doctorate oflaws. 
Robert Conway, Class of 1966, a senior director at Goldman Sachs who also serves on Notre Dame's Board of Trustees, will receive a doctorate of laws. 
Jack Greenberg, a well-known lawyer who was active in the civil rights movement and has argued 40 cases before the Supreme Court, including Brown v. Board of Education, will receive a doctorate of laws. 
Joseph Keller, a well-known mathematician who has con­tributed significantly to the world of engineering and science, will receive a doctorate of science. 
Sonia Manzano, a writer, pro­ducer and actress who has played Maria on "Sesame Street" for over 30 years, will receive a doctorate oflaws. 
James Morris, executive director of the United Nations World Food Program, the world's largest food aid organization, will receive a doctorate oflaws. 
Anne Mulcahy, the CEO and chair of the board of Xerox, will receive a doctorate of laws. 
Steven Sample, president of the University of Southern California and well-known electrical engi­neer, will receive a doctorate of engineering. 
1979 graduate Carol Lally Shields, associate director of oncology at Wills Eye Hospital in Philadelphia who captained the Notre Dame women's basketball team three times, will receive a doctorate of science. 
Joseph Walther, a decorated 
U.S. Army Air Force surgeon in World War II who founded the non-profit research organization Walther Cancer Institute of Indianapolis, will receive a doctor­ate of science. 
In addition to honoring com­mencement speaker Janet Endress Squires, Saint Mary's will give honorary degrees to Sister Marian Teresa Gomes and Heifer Project International. 
Gomes is the former Area VII coordinator for the Holy Cross Sisters and the president of Holy Cross College in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Holy Cross was rec­ognized as the best university in Bangladesh in 2003 under Gomes' direction. 
Because it is an organization, the Heifer Project is an unusual choice for award recipient. The humanitarian non-profit agency began in Elkhart in 1944 and has since benefited poor families in 115 countries by giving them live­stock, food and agricultural train­ing. Many Saint Mary's students and faculty have been involved with the program. 
Executive Assistant to the President Susan Dampeer called the Project "an extraordinary charity" and said that while the College has never awarded an honorary degree to an organiza­tion before, Heifer Project International is certainly a worthy recipient. 
"Saint Mary's has a huge com­mitment to service, and I think that the fact that our students rec­ommended [Heifer Project International] really shows how much we value service," she said. 
A special award, the President's Medal, will be given to Sister Jean Kiene, a 1959 Saint Mary's gradu­ate who received a master's degree from Notre Dame and a doctorate from the University of Toronto. She will retire at the end of' this year. 
Kiene, an English professor at the College for 35 years who inspired thousands of students and left an indelible mark on the English department with her courses on Shakespeare, was cho­sen to receive the honor by College president Carol Mooney, who Kiene taught as an under­graduate at Saint Mary's. 
"The President's Medal is not given every year," Dampeer said. "It is given basically for a lifetime of service to the College. It's a spe­cial way for the president to rec­ognize someone who's done extraordinary things for the College." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at 
kantonac@nd.edu and 
Nicole Zook at 
zook8928@saintmarys.edu 


UBS welcomes some of Notre Dame's best and brightest who•ve decided to join our winning team. You and us. 
Wealth Global Asset Investment Management Management Bank 
Full Time Hires Jennifer Liebenauer Kristina Meszaros 
You &Us 
*UBS 

hiday, May 13, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page II 
The Cottages ofPendle Woods A Single Family Villa Community 
Locatedjust north ofNotre Dame 
Visit The Model Home This Weekend M 14 & 15--12:00-6:00 

The Westbury-53424 Hansel Court 
Featuring: 
Homes by Craig A. Taelman Custom Homes Walk-to Campus Wooded and Pond View Hornesites City Water & Sewer, Sidewalks & Streetlights Villa Maintenance & Low County Taxes Homes Starting from the Low 200's Developer-Holladay Properties 


Tim Murray Class of '79 
l'hone:  574-243-9513  
Toll Free:  1-888-444-1751  
Email:  Tim@TimMurray.com  
Or Visit:  

www.Pendle Woods.com 
Future Open Houses Times Starting May 17: 
Tuesday & Thursday 4:00-6:00 
Saturday & Sunday 2:00-4:00 
Location: 
Located off of Pendle Street between 933 and Juniper Road. Pendle Street is Just North of Douglas Road 
Marketed By: 


Anchor Real Estate 
eO-ng'tatulate~ 0-U't (}~taduating Senia~. 5fianft lJO-U ja't gifting cm~t cammunitlJ! 
l.au"n llerger Kale GreeTIWe/1 Liz McCorry Annie Robinson Maew ('arey Tiffany Gunn Carolyn McGrady Tricia Robinson Rekcca ('hoy Liz llarf111ann Melissa McGrady Vanessa ,'iafonz 
Erin Clark£ Mells5a lfenrtges Annie McGrath Sarah Schneickr CaJherine (.'l~pper Shannon lleuer Kerry Meagher Katie Sl!eberg Julianne Co111isMy Courtm.y Jianas Nicole Mendes Lindsay Schaffer 
Katie Cotter Dana Kt'rnich Alissa Mendoza Christy Straniero Liz Donnelly Kati¥ Kinner Kelly Mortell Charlotte 1'ro11pis Uz Doyle Kathy Koranda Ann Mulligan Rachel Turcotte 

Becca J.t-ldmann Mary £Iizabeth Sabitha Narandran Christina Velasque:: Kovacik 
1j" 
April Jotor~J Kate Nienaber Becky Walter Beth Kub~rka
Li:Oal~:io Sarah Olws B~th Ward A.vtrld Kurnim.-an

Katy Uorcia Katie O'Sullivan f~flli/y Weisner Katie J.awit-r
Katherine Ua.vdaglis AmyPec/r.ins Carrie Wi.ren L/.fa Lombardi
/.aura Ut!'ldermann Rochell'dur .lolaum Wo=nica I.Clura Gleim Anne Raih 

... 



ffang6a1tn !llall 

Graduates commit to service work progratnS 
Teach for America, AmeriCorps, Peace Corps among most popular for departing seniors 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint Mary's Editor 
II' someone had asked senior Lyndsey Bergen a year ago what she would be doing after she graduated from Saint Mary's, her response enrtainly would not have included trav­eling to Africa for a stint as an English teaeher. 
Yet just 24 hours short of receiving her diploma, Bergen is committed to two years ol' service with the Peace Crops and is waiting to hear exactly where on the continent she will be placed. 
"I really feel that this is what I am sup­pose to do," Bergen said. 
Bergen is just "I really feel that poor. 
one of a few hun­this is what I am "I don't know dred Notre Dame how I'm going to
supposed to do. " 
and Saint Mary's change that, but seniors who have I am going to try, committed them­Lyndsey Bergen a little bit at a selves to post­senior time," she said. 
graduate service work. According to Liz Mackenzie, director of senior transition programs at the Center for Social Concerns, Notre Dame typically sends 10 percent of its graduating class to service work. 
"We have about 150 )sen­
( iorsj who have registered, say­ing they are doing post-gradu­ate service," Mackenzie said. However, not all students register with the esc, Mackenzie said, and she esti­mates the number to be roughly 200. While there are dozens of different programs, the most popular are Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE), Holy Cross Associates, Teach for America, AmeriCorps and the Peace Corps. There is a CSC service send­off Saturday at 9;30 a.m. in the DeBartolo Center for the 
entsl when I l'ound out I was nominatt~d. and they wnn~ like 'Oh, great.' I don't think it is going to hit thnrn until I leave." 
After thrnn months ol' inten­sive language training in tlw United States, Bergen will travnl to a country whnrn slw will teach English as a Sm~ond Language (ESL), girls' empow­erment and AIDS prev1~ntion. In terms ol' language, Bnrgnn only knows that she will not be working in a French-speak­ing nation. 
Bnrgnn acknowledges pover­ty exists domestically but said third world countries lack 1w~n the basic resourcns to alleviate the nxtreme eircum­stancns of their 
Performing Arts. "In order ticipate in Echo, The decision to to complete a program postpone gradu­through the
everything that 
ate school or a Institute for career and pur­this University has Church Lire 
sue post-graduate given me, I feel like designed to revi­
service work talize catechesis
I needed to 
came to Bergen, a classes in various political science share it." parishes scat­major, after tered throughout studying interna­the United
Alexa Puscas 
tional politics and States. Only two
senior

world affairs. Bergen said African nations, still reeling from the effects of colonialism, are particularly needy. 
"I was given the choice of Africa, Eastern Europe and Asia, and I have been interest­ed a lot in Africa," Bergen said. "I have been studying on what is going on Sudan." 
Bergen said a friend at Notre Dame was "tossing around" the idea of joining the Peace Corps, prompting her to research the program. Not practicing any specilic religion herself, Bergen was attraeted to the secular framework or the Corps. 
She began communicating with a recruiter based out of Chicago and completed the long application process in September. 
"My dad is not happy," Bergen said. "I called [my par-
After studying 
world politics 

and learning about the struggles of the poor, Bergen said it would have been impossible for her to do anything else but serve after she completed her schooling. 
"I don't want to be able to go on with a regular life," Bergen said. "I've never wanted to work for money, I have always wanted to work for what I want to do, and this is what it is shaping up to be." 
Bergen said she anticipates the experience will influence the direction of her life in future years. 
"This will help me decide what I am going to do with the rest of my life. I have a feeling that this is something I will do for the rest of my life." 
Studio art major and theolo­
gy minor Alexa 
Puscas will par­

years old, it cur­rently has 26 participants. 
Puscas will spend two con­secutive summers at Notre Dame taking course at the graduate school of theology eventually receiving her mas­ters in theology. During the academic year she will work at a parish in Indianapolis. 
Puscas said she felt "very strongly called to serve" and described her deeision to do post-graduate work with the program as a continuation of her education. 
"In order to cornpletn nvery­thing that this University has giv1m to me I l'enl likn I nneded to sharn it," Puseas said. "The Notre Dame expnrienee isn't just for me, it is for every­body." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

-----------------------------------------------------------, 
page 12 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 13, 2005 
Mooney completes first year at helm of Saint Mary's 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint Mary's Editor 

In a year that included a sharp drop in enrollment numbers, an inauguration weekend and the opP.ning of a new $17 mil­lion Student Center, Saint Mary's President Carol Mooney proved herself a capable administrator during her first year at the helm of the College. 
Transition to Saint Mary's 
A 1972 Saint Mary's graduate, Mooney never strayed far from her alma mater. She attended Notre Dame law school, where she eventually became a faculty member, assistant dean and finally, associate dean. In 1996, Mooney was named vice president and associate provost at Notre Dame. 
In March 2003, then-Saint Mary's presi­dent Marilou Eldred announced her retire­ment, initiating a nine-month search process that brought four candidates to campus to meet students and faculty. On Dec. 26, 2003, the Saint Mary's Board of Trustees named Mooney as Eldred's suc­cessor and the 11th president of the College. • 
Although Mooney did not officially take over until June 1, 2004, she faced fulfilling her duties at Notre Dame while simultane­ously looking toward her future at Saint Mary's. Once in office, Mooney traveled extensively to meet with individuals con­nected to the College. She also visited every dorm on campus for meet-and-greet ses­sions, where she answer students' ques­tions about her four years as an under­graduate and her vision for the College. 
Enrollment numbers 

One of the most immediate problems Mooney faced in her first year as president was inconsistent student enrollment. Saint Mary's opened its doors in August with a 
12.7 percent drop in enrollment, the result of an unusually small first year class, and found itself with empty dorm rooms and a $1.5 million budget deficit for the 2005 fis­cal year. 
In response, Mooney made changes in the structure of the Office of Admissions, creating the new position of Vice President for Enrollment Management to oversee col­lege enrollment numbers. 
"The search for the Vice President for Enrollment Management is about to move into the interview stage," Mooney said. "I am told that we have a strong pool of can­didates, and we hope to have the position filled before the start of fall semester." 
Mooney also expressed the intent to as much as double the College endowment fund in order to reduce dependence on enrollment for financial stability. 
Inauguration ceremony 
In· what was the biggest event on campus in years, Mooney was sworn in as president of Saint Mary's during an official inaugura­tion ceremony on Saturday, Jan. 15. The ceremony was part of a weekend-long inaugural celebration that brought hun­dreds ofalumnae and academic represen­tatives from all over the country. 
"The College community extended great hospitality to the many guests who were with us for the events of the weekend," Mooney said. "I was very pleased with the opportunity we had to showcase the aca­demic talent at the College and with the chance to share the Saint Mary's story with multiple audiences." 
Mooney's inauguration also included a canceling of classes and an ali-day academ­ic symposium in which faculty and staff dis· cussed the academic focus of the College and its obligation as a liberal arts institu­tion. In recent years there has been con­cern within the Saint Mary's community about its classification as a "comprehensive college." 
"The discussion at the symposium, like all academic discussions, was part of an ongo­ing conversation within a community of interest," Mooney said. "It was neither the beginning nor the end of a conversation that has been taking place at Saint Mary's for some time one part of which is how best to balance liberal and professional educa­tion." 
SAGA granted club status 
After a week delay, the Board of Governance (BOG) granted club status to the Straight and Gay Alliance (SAGA) on March 21. making the club eligible for stu­dent government funding. 
The decision to officially recognize SAGA left many student government officers con­cerned about the group's compatibility with the Saint Mary's Mission and the teachings of the Catholic Church on homosexuality. 
On Feb. 27, 1998, Eldred overturned a BOG vote to approve a similar group, The Alliance of Lesbian, Bisexual, Straight and Questioning Women of Saint Mary's College (ALBSQ), for club status. Eldred's decision resulted in near uproar on campus as stu­dents duct taped their mouths closed and sat outside the presidential office for hours at a time. 
There was speculation on campus that Mooney might take similar action and intercede in the vote. According to Mooney, however, the governance manual changed between Eldred's administration and her own. 
"At the time of President Eldred's action, the president had authority to override an action of the Board of Governance," Mooney said. "Now, that authority resides in the Vice President for Student Affairs. Dr. Linda Timm decided that, on the basis of the group's application, she would not take that step." 
New Student Center 
The 2004-05 academic year also included the opening of the new Student Center, a $17 million building that now houses the Shaheen bookstore, a cyber cafe and cam­pus offices including Multicultural Affairs, the Office of Civic and Social Engagement and the Student Government Association. 
Open for business immediately following 

President Carol Mooney's inaugural year at Saint Mary's concludes this week. 
spring break and blessed in an official opening ceremony on April 21, the Student Center has quickly become the center of activity on campus. 
"The opening of the new Student Center was a joyous occasion," Mooney said. "The space is beautiful." 
Graduation 2005 
Saturday, 33 years after she donned a cap and gown and received her diploma, Mooney will help officiate at the Saint Mary's commencement ceremony. 
"It has been a wonderful year," Mooney added. "I love my job and cannot believe that a year has already passed. Although I have only known them for one year, the Class of 2005 will always be special to me. Their commencement will cap one of the happiest years of my life." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
The Nanovic Institute Congratulates Graduates who completed the European Studies Minor! 

Cory M. Irwin Michelle M. Celli 
Kim Lee Anderson 
Erin R. Mai Bryce A. Cooper 
Nicole Mikicic Melissa DeLeon Victoria L. Pambianco Mary E. Donelan Liane K. Roach 
Rebecca L. Feldmann Marco G. Sandusky Leslie j. Fitzpatrick Michael R. Schmuhl jessica A. Freeman Alexanderj. Strittmatter Erin L. Guimaraes jennifer K. Testa joseph N. Guintu jessica L. White John P. Younes 
www.nd.edu(-nanovic 

Priday, May 13, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 13 
The University ofNotre Dame's 
The fohn f. Reilly Center 
for 

Science, Technology and Values 
Is pleased to announce that the following students have been awarded the distinction of 
John J. Reilly Scholar 
In The Five Year Double Degree Program in Arts and Letters/Engineering 
Class of 2005 
Teresa Maria Bloemker Lance David Gallop Walter Chester Pruchnik, III 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
CHORALE 

AlEXANDER BlACHlY. DIRECTOR 
TOGETHER WITH 

SENIOR MAJORS & M.M. STUDENTS 
IN A 

COMMENCEMENT WEEKEND CONCERT 
J.S. BACH SCHUBERT WAGNER
p p 
RACHMANINOFF STRAUSS
p 

8:00P.M., fRIDAY, MAY 13,2005 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL 

.~;;,!ili1 DE B A R T 0 l 0 DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS ,[~~ !Jll PERFORMING ARTS CENTER RECEPTION IN THE FOYER IMMEDIATElY FOLLOWING 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME

ADMISSION FREE: TICKETS REQ!JIRED 
RESERVATIONS 574·631-2800 



Recycle The Observer. 
By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Editor 
The University fired Assistant Director of Notre Dame Security/Police Chuck Hurley on April 22 because of allegations that Hurley was untruthful dur­ing NDSP's investigation into the circumstances of a Feb. 3 inci­dent involving former trustee and football captain Dave 
Hurley is fired by Notre Dame 
NDSP assistant director says he was let go due to Duerson zncident 
Duerson at the 
"J want a thorough
Morris Inn, 
and competent
Hurley said. 
Hurley, who investigation." contests the University's 
Chuck Hurley 
allegations, said 
former assistant director 
Notre Dame incorrectly eval­NDSP uated his actions "be­
cause there was [a different! offi­appear in St. Joseph County cer [involved with the Duerson Superior Court Feb. 28, Dave incident] who was untruthful." Duerson's lawyer had the 
However, Hurley refused to appearance deferred until April discuss any specifies about the 28. incident, calling it "a police mat­Hurley expressed frustration 
ter, a criminal case." 
According to the prosecutor's supplemental affidavit on the case, Duerson allegedly struck his wife, Alicia Duerson, and pushed her out of their hotel room during the early morn­ing of Feb. 3. She was treatnd 
''There is no way I can be bitter about Notre Dame-it's done so much for me and my.family." 
Chuck Hurley former assistant director 
NDSP 
with his situation but said he had no hard feelings toward the University. 
"Thero is no way I can be bitter about Notre Dame -it's done so much for me and my family," llurlny said. "There are certain individuals I am upset with bncausn of what has OCCUITPd lwrn. 

Director Hex Hakow and at one time. 
University spokesman Matt Storin also declined to comment b e c a u s e Hurley's dis­missal is a "personnel matter." 
Hurley said he has been involved in an 
"There are certain individuals I am upset with because ofwhat has occurred here. " 
Chuck Hurley former assistant director 
NDSP 

appeals process and has hired his own lawyer and has met with University lawyers. 
"I want a thorough and compe­tent investigation," Hurley said. 
He also said he wants to re­obtain his position at Notre Dame. 
"That's my ultimate goal," Hurley said. 
Dave Duerson, a two-time foot­ball All-American at Notre Dame and former president of the Monogram Club, was charged with two counts of battery and two counts of domestic battery following the incident. lie and his wife were on campus for the winter Board of Trustees meet­ing. 
Dave Duerson resigned from the Board of Trustees Feb. 4, 
and Storin told The Observer in March that Dave Duerson's repre­sentatives expect­ed him to resign from his Monogram Club position as well, which was set to expire in June. 
Although origi­nally scheduled to 

at a local hospital and releasnd, But I could never uttnr one nega­tho statement said. tive word about the University of 
Associate Vice President for Notrn Dame." Hesidence Life and Student Hurley, who snnt thrne of his Affairs Bill Kirk, who informed live childrnn to Notrn Dame, was Hurley of his tnrmination, also involved at thn Univnrsity as declined to comment. NDSP Fisher's intnrhall football coach 
"The students are outstanding people, the fac­ulty and stan· ... the lloly Cross prinsts arn some of the best peo­ple you will ever ment," Hurley said. 
Hurley said he was rneruited by Notre Dame in 

1988 and served as assistant director of NDSP for almost 17 years. Prior to working for Notre Dame, Hurley said hn served in every rank of the South Bend Police Department for 20 years, the last four as chief of police. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
Good luck Class of 2005. 
page 14 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 13, 2005 
Seniors reflect on a controversial four years at ND 
Sept. 11,2001,changes in the alcohol policy define the Class of2005 
By MADDIE HANNA fusociare News Ediwr 
Notre Dame projects an image of constancy, a sense of the per­petual. The Golden Dome has served as a beacon sinco its addi­tion to the Main Building in 1882, and the Grotto almost always shelters a few weary souls, no matter the hour or weather. 
But seniors looking back on their four years under the now scaffold-shrouded Dome have seen a multitude of changes that have shaped their Notre Dame experience for better or worse. The elimination of the in-dorm SYR and a new alcohol policy 
"I think the biggest changes were probably the SYRs and the changes in the alcohol policy," senior Alexandra Holland said. "I think that really affected student llle." 
Senior Kate Brady agreed with Holland, noting the outrage that resulted from the Office of Student Affairs' 2002 ban of in­dorm SYR dances and hard alco­hol. 
"I definitely think it affected dorm unity," Brady said. "I know a lot of people who weren't even interested in going anymore." 
Senior Eric Tarnowski said the administration greatly impacted the Notre Dame community with the new alcohol policy. 
"It changed the face of the University as far as what people 
"" 
did on campus," he said. "Freshman year we spent a lot more time on campus." 
Tarnowski said these changes reflected a preoccupation of University officials with project­ing an image. 
"The longer I was here the more to me it seemed that the emphasis from the University was more on the image and not on the students themselves," he said. "That's probably what has bothered the seniors the most." Football coaching carousel 
Seniors had a variety of opin­ions on four years of football, which saw multiple coaching changes. The seniors started with Bob Davie, who was fired in 2001, and then saw George O'Leary get hired and then fired after falsifying his resume. Most recently, Tyrone Willingham was fired and replaced with Charlie Weis. 
"I think it was just kind of dis­appointing because I didn't feel like we had any continuity," sen­ior Heather Kimmins said. 
However, Tarnowski said he didn't mind the changes. 
"I personally think that the change from Ty Willingham to Charlie Weis was a good one," Tarnowski said. "I think that the University is sort of just trying to find itself." 
Senior Drew Updike agreed and said the campus seems more excited about football during transitions. 
"It was kind of exciting when we got Ty. Then we get Charlie Weis, everyone's jumping around about that too," Updike said. "I thought it actually made things more interesting." 
A regilded Dome 
Students returned from spring break to find the regilding of the Dome underway. 
While counting the days until graduation, many also counted the diminishing inches that sepa­rated the scaffolding from the Virgin Mary. A current of student unrest directed by senior class president Darrell Scott shook University officials and ultimately drove Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves to strike a deal with contractors in which they partially removed the scaf­folding prior to graduation. 
"Back in March many of my classmates expressed concerns over the scafl'olding situation and asked if there was anything that could be done to alter the situa­tion for the better," Scott said. 
Tarnowski drew a comparison between the regilding and other actions taken by the University. 
"I really felt that that [scafl'old­ing on the dome] just sort of epit­omized the whole outlook of the University," Tarnowski said. "They didn't tell the students about it until after it was too late ... exactly what they've done over the years." 
The Notre Dame experience 
Seniors were on campus during the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, and the all-campus Mass on South Quad was one remem­bered by most. 
"I think that was the event that really sort of gelled our class with the University and pulled our class together," Tarnowski said. 
Despite the significance of events such as that Mass, many seniors say the little moments are what they will remember the most. 

Senior Eleigh Radigan recalled the time when she played "fire soccer" by soaking soccer balls in kerosene and wrapping them with chicken wire. 
"We went out to the McGlinn fields and got chased by the cops," she said. "It was awesome -definitely one of my favorite Notre Dame memories." 
Senior Maria Padilla simply enjoyed when good weather came along. 
"Every day it's warm here is a good memory," Padilla said. "Everyone is outside. Seriously, this place is meant for warm weather." Predictions for the future 
Most seniors said they felt it would be hard to predict the future direction of Notre Dame due to the now changes in the administration, as University President-elect Father John Jenkins is set to take over July 1, replacing outgoing University President Father Edward Malloy. 
"I think it defmitely seems like the University is starting to head in a direction focusing more on competing with other universities and trying to maintain this repu­tation it's established as a top university," Tarnowski said. "But I think it is sort of getting away from the things that are uniquely Notre Dame. There are so many small things that make Notre Dame what it is and I think some of those things have been sacri­ficed over the years." 
Updike said he felt as though the University did not always keep students first in its plans and that the administration "neg­lected" students' concerns. 
"It was just one thing after another," he said. 
Updike referred to the example of students' inability to obtain University recognition for a stu­dent group designed to promote dialogue between gay and straight students. 
"I watched how motions would be made in Student Senate, Campus Life Council, then go to Student Affairs and die out," Updike said. 
Updike also commented on the conflict between Notre Dame's traditional Catholic foundation and its status as a national uni­versity. 
"Obviously [Notre Dame] is a Catholic school, but if it wants to stay at the top with some of these other schools, academically and athletically, it has to get its head screwed on about the way you run things," Updike said. 
Drawing upon the memory of the Hesburgh years, Brady expressed a vision for the future that would return to the past. 
"My hope is that the change in administration will focus more on the school that Father Hesburgh wanted it to be," Brady said. "Hesburgh's attitude was more 'I have trust in the students, I believe you know what the right thing is, that is why we accepted you."' 
But even with this uncertainty for the future, Brady said her passion for the University would never change. 
"I still love this school," Brady said. "I will always love Notre Dame." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

THE NOTRE DAME CHAPTER OF PHI BETA KAPPA, EPSILON OF INDIANA, CONGRATULATES AND WELCOMES ITS NEW MEMBERS 
OF THE CLASS OF 2005  
STEPHANIE LYNN ABERGER  MARK JOSEPH MILLER  
KIM LEE ANDERSON  VICTORIA FIORE  BRIAN MULHALL  
STACY L. ARBOGAST  REBECCA LEIGH FORD  ABBY LYNNE NERLINGER  
LUIS H. ARGUELLO  MEGAN SMITH FULLER  BRIDGET O'BRIEN  
ANNA MARIA ARIAS  MEGAN FURMAN  CAITLIN ELLEN O'BRIEN  
KELLI BARTON  CHRISTOPHER J. GEHRING  BRENDAN ALLEN O'NEILL  
KYLE REID BERTOLI  LEE THOMAS GETTLER  KEVAN MICHAEL O'NEILL  
JASON ROBERT BIEHL  SARA ELIZABETH GILLOON  KATIE LYNNE O'SULLIVAN  
MARY ANNE BLAZEWICZ  LESLEY ANN GREGORICKA  JUSTIN RIGBY  
ERIN BLONDEL  WILLIAM ALBERT GUERRIERI  ERICA RUDDY  
KATHERINE MARY BLOOMQUIST  CHRISTINE ANN HAISLUP  DAVID FREDERIC SALMON  
MARY BOLAND  MAUREEN HATTRUP  ANDREW BENJAMIN SALZMANN  
KEVIN MICHAEL BOTT  JACQUELINE HEAP  AARON SANDERS  
DAVID MICHAEL BOUTROUS  STEPHANIE ELLEN HILL  ENRIQUE R. SCHAERER  
ERIKA LYNN BRAMLEY  SUSAN MARIE JENNINGS  HENRY THOMAS SCOTT  
BRIDGET ANNE BRENNAN  COURTNEY KAY JJANAS  JOHN MARK SKAKUN Ill  
KATIE ANN-MARIE CARLOSS  GEOFFREY JOHNSTON  RENEE BERIOU STRONCEK  
GEREMY ROBERT CARNES  BRIAN EUGENE KADERA  ERIC MATTHEW TARKOWSKI  
PATRICK CARNEY  ERIN ELIZABETH KENNEDY  VINCENTE TENNERELLI  
CHRISTOPHER CASCINO  MICHAEL JOHN KNESEK  JENNIFER KIMBERLEY TESTA  
MEGAN ANE CASSERLIE  MATTHEW CHRISTOPHER  CHRISTOPHER JAMES THERASSE  
MARK JOSEPH COUGHLAN  KONERMAN  CHRISTOPHER A. TOKIN  
PETRA DANKOVA  RACHEL R. KUTZLEY  JENNY TRISTANO  
SHEILA DAWES  GREGORY MICHAEL LASKI  ASHLEY ELIZABETH TUREK  
MEREDITH MARY DOELLMAN  KAREN LAWLER  ERIN LOUISE URQUHART  
MARGARET ISABELLE MARY DOIG  DARREN RICHARD LUFT  ANN MARIE WALORSKI  
KATI SHANNON DUFFEY  KELSI MARIE MATWICK  JACQUELINE MICHELLE WILSON  
BENJAMIN LEE ELLISON  KERI MARIE MATWICK  KEVIN CHRISTOPHER WISEMAN  

Friday, May 13, 2005 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

The Alliancefor Catholic Education 
i.r proud to Jvelcome it.r twelfth clas.r of Catholic school teachers. 
We git'e thank.rfor theirgift of service to .Anterica's Catholic sdJooLr. Pleasejoin us in congratulati11g thefollowing 200 5 graduates of Saint Mary's College and the Universi!J of Notre Dame. 

Kate Aiello 
Tom Anthony 
Anna Arias 
Shannon Artnak 
Ricky Austin 
Sarah Bates 
Terrica Bentley 
Sarah Cancellare 
Nick Dailey 
Lynne DeFilippo 
Kati Duffey 
Lauren Flynn 
April Garcia 
Jon Gargano 
Emily Gorman 
Nick Green 
Katie Hesmond Joe Hettler 
Matt Houlihan 
Courtney ]ianas 
Brigid Kelly 
KC Kenney 
Liz Ketterhagen Jim Kilroy 
Katie Kinner Jocelyn Landgraf Joe Lucero 

Brownsville, Texas Jacksonville, Florida Oklahoma City, Oklahoma Fort Worth, Texas Oklahoma City, Oklahoma Denver, Colorado Jackson, Mississippi Kansas City, Kansas Kansas City, Kansas St. Petersburg, Florida Plaquemine, Louisiana Memphis, Tennessee San Antonio, Texas Atlanta, Georgia Mobile, Alabama Memphis, Tennessee Plaquemine, Louisiana Birmingham, Alabama Mobile, Alabama Brownsville, Texas Los Angeles, California Mobile, Alabama Denver, Colorado 
Jackson, Mississippi Dallas, Texas Baton Rouge, Louisiana BrowmvilJe, Texas 
• 

Darren Luft Lindsay MacRandall Marianne Magjuka Jackie McAdams Eric Morin Kate Nienaber Eric Nitz Maya Noronha Pat O'Keefe Jacqueline Pimentel-Gannon Sarah Popek Walter Pruchnik Derek Rav 
' 

Ada Trejo Anthony Van Gessel Charleen Vinalon John Waldron Annie Walorski Nick Yonto 



San Antonio, Texas St. Petersburg, Florida Biloxi, Mississippi Kansas City, Kansas Memphis, Tennessee Montgomery, Alabama Nashville, Tennessee Memphis, Tennessee Mission, Texas Dallas, Texas Brownsville, Texas St. Petersburg Baton Rouge, Louisiana San Antonio, Texas Pensacola, Florida Pensacola, Florida Plaquemine, Louisiana Memphis, Tennessee St. Petersburg 


page 16 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 13, 2005 
Seven dorn1itory rectors opt to leave University posts 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
Associate News Editor 
Seven rectors have notified the Office of Student Affairs that they will not be returning to their posts next fall, Assistant Vice President of Student Affairs Sister .Jnan Lenz said. 
"They are leaving for all different rnasons, Lnnz said. "It is really more than usual. I think last year we only had one or two leave." 
Kathleen Brannock of Howard Hall, H e b e c c a Davidson of '-"~-~ Breen-Philips llall, Sister Patricia Dearbaugh of Cavanaugh Hall, Heather Hakoczy of Pangborn Hall, Beth Skinner of McGlinn Hall, Father J. Steele of Morrissey Manor and Sister Patricia Thomas of Walsh Hall will all be leaving. 
Three, however, are leaving their positions in the dorms to assume new roles in the University. 
"The one thing I know that I think is exciting is that there are three of them that are getting great new jobs on campus," Lenz said. 
Rakoczy will be directing the Gender Helations Center, Brannock will be serving as assistant director of the Office of Residence Life and Housing and Steele will be working at the Vocation Center. 
Thomas has accepted a position as Director of Campus Ministry at 



Rakoczy 

Albertus iors, it was just as
"Leaving Notre Dame 
Magnus though we were
is hard because I 
College in New all getting to start Haven, Conn., have made so many new lives; for the a school freshmen, it was
friends, created so
founded by the 'Why us, why
many memories and
Dominican now?' It was all Congregation experienced a rich­very normal. of St. Mary of Hard at times,
ness that I know I 
the Springs, exciting at other
won't find anywhere
her own order. times." 
"It made else any time soon." While excited good sense about the future, that I would Thomas said she
Sister Patricia Thomas
be with my would miss her
Walsh Hall rector

own Sisters," Thomas said. "I did not want to stop working with col­lege-age students, and this new ministry offered me an opportunity to use so many of the experiences I had had during my eight years at Walsh Hall that it was hard to resist." 
Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman requires all rectors to notify the University if they plan to continue serving as a rector by February, allowing the University to begin a national search for a replacement if necessary, Lenz said. 
When finding new rectors, the Office of Student Affairs looks for individuals with a depth of experience in min­istry, student personnel or counseling, Lenz said. 
"We also look for people who have a Masters in education or any related field," she said. 
This year, after adver­tising the open posi­tions, Student 
r--------, A f f a i r s received 92 applications for the seven spots -"a very high number," Lenz said. 
A f t e r reviewing applications, 12 individu­als were then brought in for full-day inter­views. 
"They meet with mem­bers of the senior staff, but also rep­resentatives, a couple of 
current rectors, Iassistant rectors!. students," Lenz said. 
New rectors are chosen based on how well the com­mittee thinks they would fit in with a certain dorm. 
"Once [Poorman] makes the appointment of the individual to a specific hall, then he sends information about that hall to the new rector with the names of his or her staff, who the assistants are and who the ]resident assistants] are," Lenz said. "I think Father Poorman and senior staff try to put people into where they think will best fit." 
The job of notifying hall res­idents of the change in hall staff is left to the outgoing rectors. 
"E-mails and personal visits helped me to get the news out to everyone," Thomas said. "In telling the WILD Women of Walsh about my decision, I experienced the same kinds of emotions they did. For the sen­


Thomas 
position at Notre 
Dame. 

"Leaving Notre Dame is hard because I have made so many friends, creat­ed so many memories and experienced a richness that I know I won't find anywhere else any time soon," Thomas said. "But Notre Dame is everywhere and reaches out to her students and graduates and family members in ways that no one ever realized were possible until it happens." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

In honor of Breen-Philips rector Becca Davidson's 40th birthday, women in the dorm showed their affection for her by hanging a sign above the building's main entrance. 

mean, We hope Kelly & 
Margie have the best summer birthdays ever! Hugg/es, The Girls 




Friday, May 13, 2005 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

page 18 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
Friday, May 13, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERALlNFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574} 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574} 631-8839 
THE 0BSERVERONL/Nf 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents ofthe Univeroity ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administtation of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Tiu: Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Mondoay through Friday ~cqJt during exam and vat:ltinn l>e:riods. Asubscription to The: Observer is $100 for one academic year: $5~·ro, one ~•UCS(er. 
11u: Observer is puhll~hrW. at: POSTMASTF.R 024 South Dining Hall Send .address oorrectlons-to: Notre Dame:. IN 465%·0779 ThObsc:rver 1\::rimlical postage p.1id .It Notre Dame P.O. Boll: 779 .1.nd addiriorual mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nouc Dame, IN 46556-0779 

The Oh!.crvcr i~ a nll'mher of the ~i:atcd f're.'ilj;. All rc:pwduction rights aft" rnc:rvc:d. 

Almost three weeks ago, I stood at the front of the Walsh Hall chapel for senior Mass and offered up a baking dish as my senior memory. 
Several in the audience were a little perplexed, but really all that mat­tered to me was the chorus of snickers and ridiculous smiles from a select few. That baking dish represented two things -my pas­sion for everything of the chocolate chip cookie nature and my acceptance into the Notre Dame family. I am an only child who was essentially denied anything that wasn't meat and potatoes (I grew up in an Irish family) and who always longed for -and well, still does ­siblings. 
I had found my "family" away from home and made lifelong friends begin­ning one weekend in early September of freshman year when my roommate forced me to eat my first chocolate chip cookie. Dozens of batches and countless conversations later, I had found my kindred spirits. 
As I listened to the other memories, I realized we were not just sharing rec­ollections about our friendships. These were memories that in many ways helped shape our journey from being awkward and immature freshmen to confident and prepared leaders. For the most part, we were sharing memo­ries about our closest friends ­
'friends we did not make at a meeting or in class but in our own dorms. 
My baking dish was someone else's picture, laundry cart, stuffed animal, scrap book, plaid Catholic school girl skirt or Pizza Hut coupon. They were all reflections of friendships, reinforc­ing what makes Notre Dame so spe­cial, the "family." 
Walsh's senior Mass triggered a wave of sadness that the end really was approaching. While I had spent the previous severt semesters looking forward to being a "second semester senior" and living up college for the last time with my friends, I mostly walked around campus since spring break in denial that I was actually graduating and leaving this place. 

In the three weeks since that night, I have come to realize that this is not the end. While college may be over and we may not see our closest friends daily, this does not mean we face the real world Monday with a clean slate or without any support. We will still have those special people that pepper our Notre Dame memories and as a member of the "family" we will still be very much a part of Notre Dame. 
It amazes me the power of the Notre Dame "family" to not just build friend­ships but to unite past, future and sub­way alumni. Think of the number of times you met a Notre Dame person in the most random of places all because you were wearing an Irish sweatshirt. 
This family is a truly powerful force. It drives the spirit of this University. 
It will welcome us with open arms when we venture back to South Bend. It provides that foundation for those friendships we will never want to let slip away. 
I learned early the power of Notre Dame's family when less than a month after moving away from home, terror shook our country. The September 11 memorial Mass on South Quad is an image that will forever remain etched in my mind. This event united our class before any football game could, and it made us realize what we should value and appreciate in our lives. It, like so many other subsequent experi­ences during these four years, not only united us but taught us how to live. 
A Notre Dame education is more than simply an education. 
It is an experience. 
It immerses students in academia, faith, school pride and friendship. 
We leave here armed not only with a diploma, but with an academic and moral education, the Notre Dame spir­it and the support of our friends. 
Notre Dame gave us one of the most valuable gifts we will ever receive ­those people on our left or right that we lit candles with last night at the Grotto, we will sing "Livin' on a 
Prayer" with one last time together as college students at The 'Backer (a tra­dition that began in a sweaty fresh­man dorm party), we will link arms with at Baccalaureate to sway to the 
alma mater and we will sit next to on Sunday in our eaps and gowns. 
These people you will stand with this weekend are for the most part the randomly assigned friends who helped you ask that SYR date to the dance, studied with you all night in DeBartolo, danced the jig with you atop the bleachers, partied with you at first The Boat Club and then Heartland and Corby's, listened to you when you were sad, comforted you when you did not know your post­graduation plans, cheered for you at your sports game, celebrated with you when you turned 21, shared their highs and lows with you and, not only survived, but lived these past four years with you. 
On Monday I will pack up my room and leave Notre Dame, but I will always have my Notre Dame family, especially my six kindred spirits. 
Meghanne Downes is graduating with a degree in political science and peace studies and a minor in journal­ism. She would like to thank her dad for pushing her to excel and realize her potential, her mom for always believing in and inspiring her, her grandma for giving her both her courage and her stubbornness, Andrew both for pushing her and for his support, Shirley for all those morn­ing smiles, and her friends for their love and for simply being them. 
Finally, she would like to thank everyone at The Observer for all the laughs, the late nights, the tears, the arguments, the frustrations, the breaking stories, the friendships, and the pride she felt each morning when she picked up the paper and saw your accomplishments. But most of all she thanks you for the lessons that tested her and made her become a better per­son. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF QUOTES OF THE DAY
News Sports Heather Van Mike Gilloon Hoegarden Kate Gales 
"You are educated. Your certification is in your
Kate Antonacci Bobby Griffin Maddie Hanna Eric Retter degree. You may think ofit as the ticket to the good Megan O'Neil Chris Khorey life. Let me ask you to think ofan alternative. Nicole Zook Ken Fowler Think ofit as your ticket to change the world.,, Viewpoint Scene Sarah Vabulas Rama Gottmnukkala Tom Brokaw Graphics Illustrator 
journalist

Graham Ebetsch Graham Ebetsch 
"A graduation ceremony is an event where the commencement speaker tells thousands of students dressed in identical caps and gowns that 'individuality' is the key to success., 
Robert Orben author 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Friday, May 13, 2005 page 19 
================================================================================= 
Living the dream 
I lis voieo cracked, the pitch rising to an unusual love!. 
I have only witnessed my father cry four times during my lif(l. The first three were at grandparont-;' funerals. The f(mrth was on March 30, 2001 ­the day I was accept­nd into Notrn Dame. 
That day, as he had thn past three days, I >ad drove from work to the mailbox around lunchtime. I skipped out narly from my llonors Anatomy da.ss, with my toacher's permission of course, to anxious­ly call and discover if thn mailman had dnlivernd the verdict. Dad answnrnd my eall and I immndiately asked the standard questions: 
"Is it thern?" "Yes." I lorn we go, I thought. "Is it thick or 
thin'?" "Thin." Oh Lord. I thought, I didn't make it. Thnn my Dad's voieejurnped in to rescue 
my fears. "But, it says 'Congratulations' on the out-. sidn." "Wnll open it up and check to make sun~!" I barked back. I muld hnar him ripping through the 
•~nvnlopo bnf(lrn lw bngan reading, "Congratulations, Josnph, you have bonn aecoptnd ... " I lis voice trailed oil'. The con­sdousrwss of knowing just how badly I wanted to attend Notre Dame overtook 


him, and my Dad, a man who never cried, couldn't help himself. He choked up. 
That, to me, is what Notre Dame is all about. 
Now, four years later, I'm writing my last column for the last Observer of the year. The pa.<>t two weeks I went to Corby's, Rumrunners, State and 'Backer with friends for the last time. In the fall I experi­enced my last set of pushups in the student section after an Irish touchdown. And Sunday night I'll attend the Grotto for the last time in college. 
For someone whose nickname is "Johnny Notre Dame," who memorized most of the football media guide by age eight and who, at age six, cried himself to sleep in his par­ents' bed after witnessing the Irish lose 27­10 to Miami in the 1989 sea.<>on fmale, snapping a 23-game winning streak nonetheless, all these "lasts" have been tough to swallow. Being a student at Notre Dame was my dream. Now it's over. I have often joked to friends <Jr family that if I died tomorrow, I'd be happy because I've accomplished everything I ever wanted in life -I attended Notre Dame. 
But through this final semester under the Dome, I've realized there's two ways to look at this whole graduation thing. You ean look back on your experience at Notre Dame and be sad because it's over. Or you can be thankful for having the opportunity to attend Our Lady's University. 
I choose the latter for more reasons than imaginable. 
I've learned so much during the past four years from inside, but mostly out-;ide, the classroom. I've seen the good and bad Notre Dame has to offer. 
I've never been prouder of this school a.<> I was at the Sept. 11, 2001 Mass on South Quad, when 6,000 people who hardly knew each other joined together as one family and tried to help comprehend the events that had just transpired. 
I've been disappointed too, like when SYRs were taken away from the dorms after freshman year. 
But through it all, I've been ­blessed to meet and befriend more incredible and fantas­tic people than anyone, especially myself, deserves. I've met people who would take a bullet for me in an instant, people who stick with me despite all my faults and limitations and peo­ple who make me proud to be their friend. I've found these friends from places I didn't know existed -like Roanoke or Highland, Ind. -and others I did -like Cincinnati, Cleveland, Chicago, Buffalo and Pittsburgh. And I've never taken any of them for granted. Not once. 
When graduation ends, I'm doing what's been four years in the making. I'm going to walk over to the Main Building and slowly make my way up the front staircase. I'll turn my elass ring around, pointing the Dome outward, and breathe in the moment. It'll be bittersweet, no doubt. But I'm certain I won't be sad. Simply thankful I was lucky enough to spend four years experiencing life with the most wonderful people I've ever met. 
The late golfer Payne Stewart once said "The best thing about having dreams is sometimes you get to live them out." llo couldn't have been more right. To everyone who helped me live out my dream here under the Golden Dome, thank you. You 
will never know how much you touehed my life and made me a better per­
son. Goodbye for now, I hope our paths cross many times in 
the future. And the next time you're out remember­
ing college and the ~-,rroat experiences you lived through, have a drink f(lr 
me. Somewhere, I'll be doing the same for you. 
Joe Hettler is graduat­ing with a degree in marketing and journal­

ism and will be living in Alabama for the next two years teaching little ele­mentary school students the words to the Notre Dame Fight Song, instead ofthe Pledge of Allegiance. After that, he plans on 
making nickeL<; and dimes writing for a newspaper. lie would like to thank every­one at The Observer. especially Meghanne Downes and Matt Lozar, for their patience and help during the past four years. On a side note, he still plans to name his first­born, boy or girl, Knute. 
The views expressed in this column an! those ofthe author and not necessarily those of'/1ze Obsen,er. 
-------~~==~-=-~~~=-===================================================-~=-=-====~=-~ 
Last call for Saint Mary's 
.,. 

Somd.imPs I wondm· how many timns f'vn drivPn down Tim ;\w~nun. I can't nvnn hPl-(in to imaginn how many milns I've walkPfl at Saint Mary's-to Madnlnva, to Tnunpnr. to tho parking lol<; and tlwn back to lloly (:ross II all. l'vn writlnn papnr 
• allnr papPr, survivnd Pighl grunling finals wnPks and spnnt r.ountlnss hours in tlw dining hall. f'vo livnd in lilllr rooms in lloly Cross, smm two studont centnrs, had livn dillhnmtjobs and bnrm in doznns of profi~ssors' c~lass­ns. /\nd this wm~k­nml, all of that is going to rome to an nnd. /\nd looking at thn biggnr pidurn, thnrn is much rnoro than just what we've soon on Saint Mary's r.ampus. Wn saw the attacks ofSept. I I from our fn~shman ynar rnsi­dmwn hall rooms and wern immndiatoly bondnd tognthnr by it. We havo had a n~elertion of a pn~sident, nnw prnsidnnl-; at both Saint Mary's and Notrn Dame and tho first nPw poJW in our lifi~timns. We havn senn our ri<Lo;snmtns and frinnds adapt to rollngn lifi\ grow throughout it, and arn now going to watrh thnm sot out into the rnal world. But wlum wn start to get all nostalgic about our Saint Mary's nxpnrinnen (whic~h liw many of' us will start on Monday), we ran look hark on our timn horn and h1~ proud of what wn havn arrornplislmd. 
Bnmusn thn truth is, liw all of us who aro afi·aid ofthn rnal world. wn arn alrnady liv­ing it. Wn havn balancml a full timnjob and a soriallifi~ whiiP nmnaging to pull good grades and havn f'un. Wn have gonn through somi~ of tlw most rigorous courses of our livns, all in pmparation Jiw this impending n~al world nonn of' us want to 
Sl111 COl liP. 

I too am in that position. I havo loved my limP at Saint Mary's with all my !mart, and 

Angela Saoud 
Saint Mary's Hditor Emeritus 

it could be months bel(wn I rnalize I won't 
hr~ parking up my bnlrlllf.,rings to como back to campus in tim fall. When did it happen? Whnn did eollegn go by so quickly'? I don't 
think I'll ever have the answor. 
Wn havo tho chanee to go out and change tho world. We have been given a stellar nduration, onn that will opnn doors and allow us to truly make a dUlcrcmee in this world. And fhnn the people I have eneoun­tnrnd at Saint Mary's and Notrn Dame, I know each h<L<; the potflntial to do some­thing wonderful with their lives, and even make someone else's bolter in the process. 
The friendships I have made at Saint Mary's arn some of the best and strongest I've over encountered. And when I walk across the LeMans !,treon on Saturday into my fi.lture, those friends will scatter across the country. 
At some point throughout college, we have all boon student-;, teachers, friends and counselors. We have left our imprints on tho hnarlo; and lives ofothers and wn are bettor people bncause of this. Now, we have tho chance to go out and change the world. 
Tho saying goes, "Don't cry because it's over ... but smile beeause it happened." 
Thi-; attitude i-; what will help us to sur­vivo beyond college. Yes, of' course it's sad tlmt our undergraduate caronrs aro ovor. But tho mmnorios and nxpnrionees we have aro going to stay with us ((wever. 
We will always have our memories. 
Angela Saoud is a graduate with an Hnglish Writing major and a Secondary Hducation minor who wants to be the best teacher :.,·outh Bend ha.~ ever seen. She could not possifJly love ,','aint Mary's more. Additionally, she'd like to thank herJamily arulfriend~jbr all the love. support and kindness they have given her. And a special thanks goes out to her fellow student teach­ers who pulled her through this last semes­ter-she couldn't have done it without you. 
The views expressed in this column are those (!1'the author and no/. necessarily those of1he Observer. 
'Irish Tex-Mex' 
Now that all the challenges have bmm con­quernd and test-; have been taken, I sit back and realize that completing a dngrn11 at Notrn Damn is probably tho best thing that l could have ever donn to find my true purposn in lif(l. In filet, Notm Damn gave me many rmLo;ons to keep on living. 'Fhi-; is whern I found tim love of' my lif(l, love fbr my hometown culture and my passion for photography. For help­ing me find so many ways to eqjoy life, I will forever be thankfi.ll to thic; University, and I wiU always show the utmost pride for being a Notrn Dame gradu­ate. 
With so many student<> from so m<my states and countries, Jnever could have guessed that I would come to Notre Dame from my hometown of El Paso, Texas and end up falling in love with a girl who also ~-,rrew up in the Borderlands of'lexas. If it hadn't been fbr her, I think I would have gone erazy from eul­ture shoek at Notre Dame. 
l am definitely American, but there are dol~ init11 diUimmees betwmm living on tl111 south­ern border of'tl1e country and living in the Midwnst. Bning away for four years has made me miss so many things frorn my home, but since my !,rirlfi-iond, Anikka, and I are from similar areas, we have been able to rominiscn together about good times back on tl1e Texas border and keep homesickness out of our sys­tems. 
When I tell people that I am a photography m<\jor at Notre Dame, they usually say, "I did­n't know thoy had photography a-; a m<~jm; but that's great." I didn't eome to Notre Damn with thn intent of doing photography. In ci<L<;­sie NotrP Damn style, I actually startnd in En!,rinenring, mostly because my fitthnr is an engineer, but tlmt la.'itod about a month bdi>re I fi.llly knew tl1at I bnlonged el-;nwhnrn. My fitthnr, however, wa-; still an infiwmce because he is the eamoraltodmologyjunkie of the family, cu1d was surprisingly supportive when I told him that I wanted to rhoosP pho­teJ!,rraphy as my 111<\jor. 


Today, I eould not imagine my Iii(~ without. photeJgraphy, and Imule! not imaginu my limn at Notrn Damn without ht1ing a photelg­raphnr and photo nditor at. Tho ( lbsnrwr. If thorn is one good way to nxpnrinnr.n Notn• Damn, working a.<; a press phote1graplwr on campus would havn tel be it. You got tlw ehancn to I){~ on thn sidolinns, bPhind tho sennos with till\ biggest and most important people on campus, and best of all, it is your job to have a camera on you to catc'h thn moment a-; it un!iJids. 
;\s a nonnal studnnt, evnryday I look around and am amazed by tlw raw tahmt that exi-;L<; on e<unpus, and being able te1 be so dosn to the hundrnds of lnadm-s at Notrn Damn <md gnt te1 know thnm on a pnrsonal Jewel is an nxporinncn tlmt cannot be matdmd. 
My Notre Dame diploma is a sign of my success here at this Univnrsity, but tlmt pincn of slwnpskin would mean nothing to m11 if' it were not. fbr tim many otlwrs who have worked to reenive it a-; woll. Thn many (){~oph1 who have sucenssfi.llly infiuenc.nd me and motivated me in tim p<L<;t fiJur yoars also haw their partial ownership lo my diploma bncausn 1 would not have wante~d any of my success without thmn. In thnl'trtun~. whm1 I look at my diploma, I won't think about how I dmngnd Notrn Damn, but how Notrl' D<uno chtmgnd me. 
Chuy Benitez iB a yradualing photoyraphy mqjor who will contiruw on and workfor hi.>; Masters in l'lwtography at thl' l lniuersily qf' 1/ouBWn, but will continue to u•ear his Notre /Jame appaml. enen idlile teachillgl'hoto I classes. Ozuy will aL~o probably go through "/Jome l'iew" withdrawal and will hal't' to make a mock-up /Jome outside hi.>; apartm!'nl window to keep him calm. Notre /)anw iB d(:finite(IJ in hiB bl()()c/, and he u•illforr'l't'r.fi'e! the need to bubble in "(J//wr"jiw the Nlmidly sec/it~~ (!1'sunwys and write in "Irish '/i•x­Mex. 
The views expressed in thi.-; mlwnn are those q{the author and not necessarily fhosl' of11ze Obsemer. 

Tl··lE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 20 
Friday, May 13, 2005 


For what it's worth 
When I was getting ready to come to rience unlike any other. Notre Dame, I suspected that it might Thank you to every professor and not be my kind of place. Something student who made the Program of about loving the sight of Touchdown Liberal Studies possible. I had no idea Jesus and the Golden Dome didn't quite coming into college that something like seem to suit my per­PLS existed, but in retrospect it was sonality. exactly what I wanted to study. The 
However, I experience of finding a thought that remembered hear­you've often had, but never quite been ing at many points able to articulate, sitting in' the pages in my life that if you of a text written 50 or 700 or 2,000 "put a good face on years ago is extraordinarily exhilarat­things" and "have ing, and it means a lot to me to have . the right attitude," had a community to share that. I doubt things will work out. I would ever have slogged through So I tried to put the hundreds of pages of Plato, Aquinas or best face on football Kant without the PLS professors to games, dorm parties guide me, or more often push me, and a couple of through the texts, but I'm very glad I SYRs and see if hav­did. ing the right atti-I sense a few people out their rolling tude could make them work for me. their eyes at the flaky non-Boat-Club­
The problem with trying to live by loving PLS major, but if I've somehow nondescript pieces of general advice missed out on the joy of having pitchers seems to be that you usually don't of beer poured on me, at least leave me understand exactly what they mean my books. until you've already figured it out for Thank you to everyone who under­yourself anyway. I suppose, to stretch stands what it's like to stand on a an analogy, that living by cliches is a mountainside in India peering through little bit like learning by Cliffs Notes­the clouds for a glimpse at the they really only help to remind you of Himalayas, or to bicker over 20 cents things that you've already learned on on the price of a rickshaw ride. (To this your own. day I'm not sure why we thought it was 
Suffice it to say, trying to have a good important to bicker over 20 cents on attitude did not help me enjoy anything the price of a rickshaw ride, but there just because I thought I ought to enjoy it is.) The world has never looked the it. Many of the "Domer" things that I same since that semester as it did did freshman year, and a few other before we left. things that I've done since, will remain Thank you to everyone who helped emblazoned in my memory as a big fat me learn a little bit about what it waste of time. means to be Catholic. This is not my 
I'm not saying that any of the Notre faith, and it meant nothing to me Dame traditions that failed to inspire before I came here, but the Catholic me were a waste of time for anyone Church will never be meaningless for else. Everyone finds meaning in differ­me again. ent things and different places, and Last but not least, thank you to all my sometimes I still feel like I missed out friends who put up with me when I was on something that would have let me cranky, tired, bratty, thick-headed or enjoy Thursday night at the Boat Club. forgetful and trusted that I really But in the meantime, I would like to meant well. thank the people who helped make my Good luck and God bless to everyone career at Notre Dame meaningful. in our class as we move on from Notre 
Thank you to everyone who under­Dame. stands the pain of picking up The Observer after working a seven hour Maria Smith was the Scene Editor of shift, getting home at 3:30 a.m., yet The Observer for two years. She hopes again missing your 9:30a.m. class and to spend the next two years doing serv­finding a typo in your headline. I am ice in the Peace Corps. still not sure how, or even why, we all The views expressed in this column put in the time to get this newspaper are those ofthe author and not neces­out every day, but it has been an expe-sarily those of The Observer. 


Never seemed so good 
I couldn't do it-I couldn't bring floor of the library, time on the myself to write about our time at Backer dance floor watching 10 Notre Dame like it was a gentle, guys "dancing on the ceiling" with emotional ride of sentimental hand-· each other, time with inventive, non­holding and Victory March singing. SUB-sponsored tostals -which I 
It was more think translates into "midday pong like a rollicking, i~ no.~ alcoholism until after gradua­top-speed, one twn. hand clutching a I'm sorry I can't say this all better. $3 pitcher and I've spent four years deriving nerdy the. other clinging pleasure from pursuing the right on for dear life, words, ones that exude perfection­yelling at the top when describing what you saw, what of our lungs at you did, how you felt. But right now, four in the morn­I have no words that could describe ing and coming what the people I've met here have home with shred-meant to me. All I want is to keep ded jeans and remembering each and every one of muddy feet but you like this, in these random and not recalling why seemingly insignificant moments kind of ride. And that mean everything to me. that's how I'll remember it. I'd like to stay here a little longer 
Oh, I'll remember you putting your watching these scenes play out, arms around me and swaying as flickering memories with the same glory's mantle cloaked US, but J'll deceptive sense of permanence as cherish the time we found you in a those rows and rows of white can­ditch with a guy at our freshman dles. Just like so many other nights, Hally. It's the silliest, least notewor­trying to make that ephemeral space thy times that are charging into my of time between last call and the end memory, times when we're waking of the night last forever. at ungodly hours to boxers-clad ser­But instead, I hope that we at least enades on South Quad or convincing put up a rowdy flght, refusing to ourselves that we really do like the leave until the lights come on and taste of White Lightning. we have to be bodily removed from 
I can still see those starry nights the premises, dragging our feet and weaving endless loops around us still singing a noisy rendition of with books, drinks and "relations," "Piano Man" until the very end. ranging from lapsed-judgment, · And when it's finally time to go avoid-awkward-eye-contact-in-the­home, I hope you remember this dining-hall meaningless to changed­night, these years, our friends, me your-life, want-to-print-his-name-in­... beca_use I'll sure remember you. your-last-column meaningful. Then there are sunlit golf mornings with Christie Boisen is a graduating the impossibly enthusiastic Coach 0, political science and philosophy urging me once again to "go get major with a journalism minor, and some beautiful balls!" former Assistant Scene Editor of The 
Now there's rampant debauchery Observer. She loves everyone,-but as we're running amok in the streets especially her wonderful family, of D.C. and abroad, then a darkened Glenna Joyce and every single boxing ring where our classmates friend who transformed her in four are becoming modest Bangladeshi years from a nerd to a nerd with · heroes. We're walking from Boat to cool friends. A special thanks to Zahm in the summer rain because Lyons girls, who were there for her no cabs come on Tuesdays; I'm on the saddest day of her life, and thinking I'm cool the first time we who taught her everything impor­hang out in a guys' dorm,-B008 tant she knows. She is looking for­Fisher to be exact. I thought college ward to being the slow learner in was going to last forever. law school next year ... somewhere. 
It's like we've been running out of The views expressed in this col­time all along, but I just didn't real­umn are those of the author and not ize it. Time socializing on the second necessarily those of The Observer. 
When I received my acceptance letter four and a half years ago, the same pic­ture kept running through my head ­graduation day, standing by the steps of the Dome, feeling lucky to be holding my Notre Dame diploma, showing it off to everyone in my fami­ly. 
So you would think, with gradua­tion just days away, that picture would once again be replay­ing in my mind. 
Although I do have all kinds of images running through my head, they're not images of the gradu­ation that is soon to come, but of the countless memories I've made since I took my first step upon this campus as an olli­cial Notre DamP student. 
My freshman year included so many memorable moments. Everyone can pic­ture that great moment from Frosh-0 week. The time when you serenaded 


One more picture 
another dorm with some ridiculous song or dance routine -for me it was singing ''I'm a Little Teapot" followed by "Baby Got Back." Or when you first met that guy or girl that is now your best friend. Or maybe the first time you got completely obliterated with the people you now call your brothers. 
The one freshman year moment that stands out for me is the week after Frosh­0 week. My RA and the guys from my sec­tion took me to a nice birthday dinner at South Dining Hall, only on top of the strawberry cheesecake for dessert, they decided to pick me up and carry me over to do a yo-cream stand. I swear I threw down yo-cream for about 30 seconds, and probably picked up all of my Freshman 15 in the process. 
Then there was the party near the end of my junior year at a friend's house. WHh several "root beer floats" in my system and a huge cups victory over the cocky defending champs under my belt, a couple of my friends decided I had reached the point where I was having too much fun and gave me a ride back to my dorm. 
Apparently they underestimated my resilience -because live minutes later I somehow dragged my inebriated self into a cab riding back to the house (after first stumbling into my friend's room, who was in the middle of RA shadowing, and enter­taining him with what might be the worst Dance Dane~ Revolution routine ever). Casually strolling back into the party, I tapped my friend on the shoulder and she gave me the crazi­est look in return. The per­formance was one I will never forget. 
One moment that sticks out from this year is when I cut my leg badly during a soccer game at Rolfs. The cut was so deep that I had to first get an NDSP escort to Health Services, and then another one over to St. Joe's Hospital. After two hours of sitting in the waiting room alone and then eventually get­ting stitched up, I left the checkout desk ready to call a cab, only to run into Father Doyle, my rector in Dillon. His response, in his thick Virginian accent, was simply ''I'm here to pick yaup." Hight then, it 
really hit me just how unique this place really is. At Commencement, the picture that I had in my head four years ago will finally become a reality, only that picture will be a-little bit different from four 
I didn't fully realize then that I would have so much more family, the Notre Dame family, standing with me as well. 
Mike Harkins is a grad­uating with a degree in management information systems and is the former 
Graphics Editor ofThe 
Observer. He would like to thank everyone that helped him along the way -friends, 

family and especially his par­ents. In June, after cheering the 
Pistons to anot-her title, he will begin working for Epic Systems in Madison, Wisconsin. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

THE ()BSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Friday, May 13, 2005 
page 21 

EXCERPTS FROM PAST ISSUES 
Four years in review 
Faith sustains students after Sept. 11 Questioning revised alcohol policy 
I do not write editorials. Most times I At the end of the Mass, I witnessed from 
don't write because it takes too much time the choir risers one of the most uplifting 
to do it. ThL'> time I must make an excep­scenes in my short life. As the whole cam­
tion. Today I saw one of the most frighten­pus sang the Alma Mater with arms around 
ing and most amazing things in my life. In their neighbors, the sense of community 
one day I saw how evil and tnrrible humans radiated out and blew me away. 
can be and the way we can group together This is what Notre Dame is all about. The 
in a tinw of crisis. togetherness and unity in our University 
I myself did not n~alizn what happened cannot be matched anywhere else. 
until I walked into my first class. I saw hugs I don't know why I am writing this. I have 
IHling giwn out and people talking with a no controversial opinion, no topic that 
torw I haven't !ward before as I walked to needs to be discussed. It seems as though I 
I lPBartolo II all. I stepped into my classroom don't know much today. 
to h1· grnPlPd by tlw words "America Under All that I thought was safe and a constant 
Attack" written on the screen. in my life has suddenly been questioned. 
My America? The land of the free and The only thing I can do is to turn to my 
horne of tlw brave? This great country Lord. In this time of trouble and turmoil, 
which I havn come to grow up in and feel the Lord is the one we must turn to. I le is 
connectnd to? that one that can shine light into the dark­
The rubbiP was all over the screen and ness. lie did not cause this destruction ­
tlw smoke filh•d the sky. I turned around humans did through free choice, but lie can 
and proceed1ld quickly to return to my bring great things out of it. 
dorm. In my dorm as I once again saw 
destruction and death, a sense of sadness Paul Sifuentes 
came over me. I quickly felt pain for every­Alumni Hall 
one who was hurt, was killed and knew freshman 
people that had their lives taken away. Sept.11,2001 
Dome worth fighting for 
llaggling for an extra commencement would take away at most two or throe ticket is the only thing I thought I'd be weeks, which would place the entire pro­rwgotiating with the administration for dur­ject's completion date right at the end of ing my final days at this gn~at school. September. Ironically. how!'ver. with massive support Regrettably, Aflleck-Graves called me from classmates, I lind myself enmeshed in March 24 to say the arrangement would talks of much grPater signilicance. On actually add an extra four weeks t.o the March 24, the distinguisht~d and genuine project; thus the last scaffold would not Ex1~eutivn Vice President John Aflleck­come down until mid-October-two weeks Graves wrote in The Observer: too late. "Unfortunately, there is no way it [the Dome If I were a multi-millionaire, I'd give sev­project! could be avoided." I could not eral hundred thousand dollars to Conrad agree more. Schmitt Studios to hire more workers and 
I lowever, the question is not whether the tools to be able to make the compromise Dome should remain broken and unfixed. arrangement work. Alas, I am not rich -I Hathnr. the question that fellow classmates am just one student with a lot of loans. have asked me is whether there is a way to Nonetheless. when people accuse me of restore the Dome for our posterity, yet still wasting my time, I emphatically disagree. allow graduates a picture-perfect view of Each of us has that special loved one who the most recognized university landmark in can't wait to see Notre Dame. Thus I will the world. continue working with fellow seniors, stu­
In a meeting with Aflleck-Graves last dent government folks and the administra­Wednesday, Adam Istvan drafted a compro­tion to make the best of this situation. mise that we believed would allow for the Nonetheless, I just wish that 12th person w1~ather-contingent aspeel'> of the Dome who has been there all of the way can expe­project to be finished by the absolute Oct. 1 rience that same awesome sight that we "frost-deadline" and still allow for the have had during these past four years­Dome to be unfettered graduation week­shining in the heavens, gleaming gold and end. blue. 
The compromise allowed for continued wor·k on the dome so as not to lose vital Darrell Scott time in April that is needed to complete this senior class president time's mon• !'XlPnsivc project. We hoped it March 28, 2005 
In gratitude for solidarity 
I would like to thank all who participated believe that open discussion events like the in "Gay? Fine by me" and attended the Gay, forum will help make your university a Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender (GLBT) meeting place where all can feel welcomed. Issues forum last week. As a student leader As I stated in my address, acceptance is from a peer institution, I was delighted to be found in recognition. As members of the a part of such a great series of events. I Catholic community all should look to the believe that both "the shirt" campaign and teachings of Christ and tradition of the the forum represent something that many at Catholic Church as the foundation. From your University are willing to begin talking this support and love of all, especially to the about. This truly is a wonderful starting least of those among us, acceptance can point that will allow the University to first become a reality. Only through you, as serve those who need it most. members of the student body, can true 
I would also like to congratulate Joe inclusion be realized. Thank you again for Dickmann, members of the panel and the your warmth, compassion and hospitality. GLBT/Ailied community for their commit­ment, hard work and love that was put into Michael Yaksich thes,e evenlc;. All who participated have truly Director of GLBT Issues strived to make the spirit of inclusion a real­Boston College ity when others have lost sight of its goal. I March 21 , 2004 
Student Affairs. wake up. make legal-age students register for 
Guess what students are going to the tailgating, that's exactly what do on those weekends when they will happen. All the legal students would have been dancing, drinking (whom will have moved off campus, and spending time with friends at rightly so) will spend Saturday in-hall dances? mornings in their apartments chug­
Drinking. A lot. Probably even ging beer and all the hard alcohol 
more, out of spite of their social lives they'd like. Some of my greatest 
being robbed from their shot-glass football memories camP. from tail­
holding hands. gating with friends and I can only 
Alcohol does not run the life of pity those poor kids who will neVPr your average Notre Dame student. know the pure joy of tlw 12 o'clock But it can add to the f1avor of his or shotgun. her social life. And Notre Dame stu­Takt: away our dances, our tail­dents are not alcoholics (or, at least, gates and what do you have? not the majority of the drinking pop­Thousands of embitten~d students ulation). Notre Dame students do looking for something to do on those enjoy drinking. And the majority of often boring spring weekends in those who drink do learn -albeit, South Bend. Owranxious n~ctors some, the hard way-where to lind ready to jump down thn throats of the balance, clear the blur between students who might otherwise be having fun and having your stomach sending vodka the same route. And, pumped. of' course, thousands of alumni like 
Canceling dances is not going to myself who are grateful they gradu­stop students from drinking, or even ated before the storm. dancing. Parties will proliferate. You've not only taken away dances Students just won't need to dress up and tailgating, you've stripped away or buy silly little gifts for dates. And freedom and a sense of responsibili­some dorms. as The Observer's ty. How do you expect your students March 19 editorial noted, will lose to grow, mature and make their own out on their most planned. most fun informed judgments without giving events of the year. For an institution them the opportunity to do so'? so in love with tradition and its Notre Dame students and adminis­sense of community, Notre Dame is trators alike have always boasted a doing the ironic feat of killing two feeling of "family." And while this is birds with one stone. a very special aspect of Notre Dame, 
Notre Dame students' definition of you are not our mothers and fathers. tailgate: pre-game bonanza of College is where we become aduiL-; music. food, fun and yes, drink. and learn to decide for ourselvPs. 
Notre Dame administrator's defini­Don't decide for us. tion of tailgate: pre-game bonanza of debauchery of crazed, alcoholic stu­Christine Kraly dents out to puke and oh, probably .class of 200 I have sex later. It must be stopped. Washington, D.C. 
And congratulations; once you March 19, 2002 
Approximately 9,000 other voices 
Thousands of students. faculty and staff from Notre Dame. Holy Cross and Saint Mary's did not sign a petition opposing a potential U.S.-led war with Iraq. The petition appeared yesterday as an ad in The Observer, included the signatures of approximately 600 people superimposed over the phrase. "Hear Our Voice." 
The approximately 9,000 students, faculty and staff who did not sign the petition opposing war with Iraq might cite the just cause tenet of Catholic just war theory as a primary motivating factor in their decision to abstain from endorsing the peti­tion. They could mention that "The Challenge of Peace; God's Promise and Our Response," a United States Catholic bishops' pastoral on war and peace, endorses war "to protect innocent life, to preserve conditions necessary for decent human existence and to secure basic human rights." 
The approximately 9,000 students. faculty and staff who did not sign the petition opposing the war with Iraq could combine this 1983 Catholic Pastoral teaching with CIA-generated facts concerning human rights abuses under Saddam llussein including Hussein's use of mustard gas in Panjwin in October-November 191{3 leaving 3,000 Iranian and Kurdish casualties, his murder of another 2.500 Iranians on Majnoon Island in February-March 1984 by the same method. his April 1987 mustard-gas attack that left 5,000 Iranians dead or wounded in ai­Basrah. his deployment of tabun and mustard gas against some 3,000 Iranians at Hawizah Marsh in March 1985 and 5,000 more at ai-Basrah in April 1987 and his use ofsarin and mustard gas against 3,000 Iranians in October 1987 at Sumar!Mehran. 
The approximately 9,000 students, faculty and staff could also take into account Hussein's Stalinist purges of his Ba'ath party, chemical attacks on Kurds in Iraq. his documented chemical experimentation on Iraqi jail inmates and his tyrannical political oppression of any semblance of an opposition party. 
The approximately 9,000 students, faculty and staff who did not sign the petition opposing the war with Iraq heed the words of Fadel Sultani, President of the National Association of Iraqi Writers, who stated in response to peace protesters, "Did they not realize that oppression. torture and massacre of innocent civilians are also forms of war?" 
The approximately 9,000 students, faculty, and staff who did not sign the peti­tion opposing the war with Iraq may have considered Sad dam I Iussein 's 11agrant human rights atrocities, his contempt for the 17 UN security council resolutions passed in order to limit his destructive capabilities and his close ties to terrorism and thought to themselves, "Hear our Voice." 
Timothy Bonadies 
junior 
ofT-campus Feb. 26, 2003 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 22 
Friday, May 13, 2005 

Brian Donnelly Joe Gulntu Kathleen Kilcline Nicole Rogers Ryan Romanowski Jess Smith 
Los Angeles, Newbury Park. Washington DC. San Antonio, Toms River, Spartanburg, CA CA VA TX NJ sc 
"The culture!" "Nice people, "Ethanol 'Too much "Endless "Wind 
,

fat squirrels, smell., snow. winters and tunnels and 
lovely frantic -snowstorms-­ethanol. SB weather., in May., for ever ... , 
·"· 
.J~. 

Tony Jannazo Kevin Leary Patrick Mickel Ryan Rogers William Torres Stephanie Vieron 
.·~ Ft. Walton Willimantic, Blacksburg,Springfield, OH flo, Peru M/inphis, TN
Beach, FL CT VA 
"Fisher, "Beer, sports, "Bookstore "Rock 'n' "Heartland on "Beef, buns, 
,

friends, women. Basketball Roll." Thursdays. ,. beer., football." tournaments." 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, May 13, 2005 
page 23 
Michael Bell 
Chagran Falls, OJ/ 
"The undercover cops at the tailgates. They were the best!" 
Dan Ballantine 

~· 
Mount Airy. 'MD

~ "Keep on rockin ' in the free world . ., 

.,· 
~~. 

Pat McMorrow Kevin Rycyna Linda Skalski Annie Tilton Marla Welch 
•

Kalamazoo, East Amherst, Minneapolis,
Plymouth, Ml Hannibal. MO ~·~1:
Ml NY MN 
"'· 

''Tailgating. " "Being held "Late night "The best "Walking ,..( ' '· 
down by the chocolate experiences across frozen administration waffles with were the St. Marys .... for four years, our very own ones I don't Lake." 
thanks." SDH waffle remember." iron." 
Meredith Burns Nick Hackett Jen Jeffers Annie Rohrs Chris Tilton 
Michigan City, 
IN Middleton. 011 Ontario, NY Simsbury, CT Excelsior, MN 
"I'm gonna "Go to Rome "Go to grad "Take a bite "Live large be a doctor. .. and resurrect school and out ofthe Big and in the Holy get married." Apple., charge ... 


Roman Empire with Pope Benedict 
XVI." 
__.••
._ 
'·-~~,.,~·-~-~~~~;;:;{~'C;::.,, '.'. 
"' 

Photo Illustration by GRAHAM EBETSCH, RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA and JUSTIN RICE 
page 24 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, May 13, 2005 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish exit tournament early after stellar regular season 
Batteast and Duffy earn All-American honors for stellar play 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
SportS Writer 
After losing just three of their first 26 games. the Irish lost three of their last seven en route to a disappointing second­round exit in the NCAA Tournament -a bitter end to a season that began with much promise. 
Notre Dame, which finished second in the Big East and 27-6 overall, saw a strong start end with a 70-61 loss to fifth-seeded Arizona State in the NCAA Regional in Fresno, Calif. on March 21. 
"We looked tired mentally," Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said after the game. "It seemed like we hit a wall, and mentally we just couldn't get over it." 
But at the beginning of the year, the Irish looked to be a top team. Ranked in the top-1 0 for most of the season, Notre Dame started off on the right foot with a Preseason WNIT champi­onship that included wins over then-No. 6 Duke and then-No. 10 Ohio State. Against Duke, freshman Charel Allen came up big with 16 points. the first of many big games for the first­year. Senior Jacqueline Batteast was named the Most Valuable Player of the tournament, lead­ing the Irish with 32 points against the Buckeyes. 

The Irish went on to win their next three games against Colorado State, USC and Valparaiso before losing to Michigan State at home. The 82-73 overtime loss snapped Notre Dame's 25-game home winning streak, which dated back to last season. 
However, the squad soon got back on track, winning its next six games, behind Batteast, point guard Megan Duffy and sophomore Crystal Erwin. 
Erwin scored 24 points on 9­for-9 shooting on Dec. 11 against Washington while filling in for the injured Courtney LaVere. Batteast hit the game­winning 3-pointer against Marquette Dec. 19 on the road, and Duffy continued her consis­tent play as the team's leader. 
Notre Dame's winning streak was snapped Jan. 9 in its third Big East game with a 59-54 loss at Villanova. At that point, the Irish were ranked No. 4 in the country and seemed to be on their way. 
But following that game, the Irish were outplayed at home by Connecticut. losing 67-50 to the Huskies, the eventual Big East Tournament Champions. 
At that point, McGraw thought the team's season was at a make-or-break. and along came Purdue. 
Notre Dame destroyed the Boilermakers, dominating at home, 86-69. Duffy led the Irish with 17 first-half points, and Batteast added 21. 
After the win, the Irish went on a tear, winning their next nine games, including a victory against Rutgers at home on Jan. 23 and at Connecticut Jan. 30. Against the Scarlet Knights. the Irish overcame a 31-20 halftime deficit, using a 23-0 run fueled by Batteast to win 63-47. 
Against Connecticut, Notre Dame dominated in the paint, and the win snapped the Huskies' 112-game Big East home winning streak. 
Notre Dame finished the sea­son second in the Big East after falling to Rutgers on the road Feb. 19. The Irish earned the No. 2 seed in the Big East Tournament, where they defeat­ed West Virginia and then fell to No. 3 seed Connecticut. 
The Irish received a surpris­ing No. 4 seed in the NCAA Tournament and received one of the toughest draws in the field. They escaped UC-Santa Barbara and star Kristen Mann 61-51 in the first round but fell to Arizona State in the second round. 
"We met and watched the film and really, I wanted them to take the pain with them," McGraw said. "I wanted them to remember the pain they felt in the locker room after the game and not to ever want to go through that again. It's all a mindset. it's an attitude that you have to have, and we just didn't seem to have it in the beginning of the second half of that game." 
The Irish lost Batteast, the team Most Valuable Player and third team Associated Press All­American who was drafted by the Minnesota Lynx and center Teresa Borton to graduation. However, despite the fact that only two seniors are gone. they leave big shoes to fill. 
"It's really going to be hard to replace them because they scored and rebounded," McGraw said. "Jackie, we want­ed her to have the ball in every clutch situation, so we're going to have somebody else to do that." 
However, DufTy. an honorable mention Associated Press All­American returns. as does Allen, who suffered a torn 1\.CL and MCL against Arizona State. These two along with forward Courtney LaVere will be the leaders for the Irish next sea­son. 
"These seniors have left a great legacy," McGraw said. "They really raised the bar for us." Note: 
Megan Duffy accepted an invi­tation to the USA Basketball Women's National Team Trials, set to take place May 19-22 in Colorado Springs, Colo., at the United States Olympic Training Center. This is Duffy's first time at the USA Trials. 
Duffy is trying to earn a spot on one of the 12-member teams that will represent the United States at this summer's World University Games and Under-19 World Championships. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

High expectations not tnet as teatnloses in NIT opener 
the program was celebrating its in its most difficult stretch of the national television, while the Though Colin Falls emerged as
Program's 1GOth year 

1OOth season. Big East schedule and had con­Irish were able to steal a victory a primary scoring threat (12.6ends with first-round Expectations rose, which is trol of its own destiny, the Irish in Bloomington, Ind., from Mike ppg) and Quinn remained steady, why a second straight NIT bid dropped three of their last four, Davis' Hoosiers in between. The the frontcourt disappointedloss to Holy Cross and a first round exit qualified including home losses to UCLA win was the first for Notre Dame coaches and fans. Center Torin as a severe disappointment. (75-66) and Pittsburgh (85-77) at Indiana's Assembly Hall since Francis notched 21 points in the "I was prepared for the NIT, and a first-round exit from the 1973. tournament loss to Rutgers, but By PAT LEONARD and that's how I prepared the Big East tournament. Meanwhile, whether at home he also averaged less than 10 Sports Writer team," Brey said after his team Rutgers, who the Irish had or on the road, the team's self­points per game. Transfer for­was denied an NCAA bid for the defeated exactly a week before, declared leader -senior point ward Dennis Latimore averaged Two years ago, Mike Brey lost second straight season. "We dashed Notre Dame's hopes at guard Chris Thomas -set pro­only seven points, showing flash­a solid portion of his team's core, probably made a [heck] of a run Madison Square Garden in a 72-gram records and led the Irish in es of brilliance against Michigan and Notre Dame needed time to at that bracket, but it wasn't 65 decision. Ricky Shields led the scoring but could not lift his and Connecticut but playing rebound. enough ... It would have been way for the Scarlet Knights with team over the top. inconsistently enough to force 
Shooting guard Matt Carroll more of an unbelievably pleas­21 of Rutgers guards' 38 points Thomas (14.2 ppg, 5.0 rpg) Brey to use a deep bench. and small forward transfer Dan ant surprise if we got in." on the night. Notre Dame guards played his best basketball in the Rick Cornett, Omari Israel and Miller had graduated after lead­Holy Cross ended Notre scored just 21 total points. season's most difficult stretch, a Russell Carter all saw significant ing Notre Dame to the Sweet Dame's season at the Joyce Prior to the late-season col­four-game nightmare against minutes, with freshman Hob Sixteen of the NCAA tourna­Center on March 15 before a lapse, during which Brey Connecticut, Syracuse, Boston Kurz turning in an 11-point. ment, leaving Chris Thomas and crowd of only 2,517 fans. The described his team as tired and College and Pittsburgh in which seven-rebound performance Torin Francis as the primary Crusaders (25-6) managed a 78-lacking energy, the team showed the Irish survived with a 2-2 against Holy Cross. returning players to cope with a 73 victory over the Irish, who flashes of cohesion but was record. He also became only the Brey said next season will see 2003-04 season that resulted in played without shooting guard defined by inconsistency. third player in Division-! basket­more of a youth movement. with an NIT berth and a third round and second-leading scorer Chris Notre Dame opened the season ball history to notch 2,000 points four recruits headed to South exit. Quinn (bruised clavicle). with a 12-3 record, including and 800 assists, joining Gary Bend in Ryan Ayers (Pa.), Zach 
This past year, however, Notre Dame finished 17-12 four wins in its first five confer­Payton and Sherman Douglas in Hillesland (Ohio), Kyle Thomas was a senior. Francis overall and 9-7 in Big East play, ence games. The first two Irish an elite category. McAlarney (N.Y.) and Indiana was recovered from a back the fifth straight season Brey's losses came in a crucial three­Thomas, however, struggled Mr. Basketball Luke Zeller. injury. Arizona transfer Dennis Irish had a winning record in game stretch early in the season. throughout the season and did Latimore was eligible to join conference play. Michigan (61-60) and DePaul not receive enough contributions Contact Pat Leonard at Francis in the frontcourt, and Though the team made a push (84-73) humbled Notre Dame on from his supporting cast, either. pleonard@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Full mattress set with warranty. 6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW Woodbridge condo townhouse. Unopened in Plastic. Sacrifice FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER LEASING FOR THE 2005·2006 Open concept. 2Bdrm + TV room 
FOR SALE $145. 574-231-4522. MONTH + DEP. STAFF AND FAC· SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES that can be 3rd bdrm. 1.5 bath, 2 PERSONALS ULTY ONLY CALL BRUCE 876· LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUS· decks, clubhousew/pool. Wooded 3537 ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2·5-7·8 BED-area WID, DIW, carport. NO smok· Matt, Meghanne, Joe and all the 
Brand name Queen pillowtop mat-ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT ers/pets. Furnished $1800/mo., Not seniors who spent hours, weeks or
FOR RENT
tress set. New in plastic. Full war-1 bdrm apt.112 mi to NO. $575/mo. NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY furnished $1300/mo 1st & last pay-years in the basement of South ranty. $185. 574·876-4474 Laundry room. Call 283-0325. SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS ment + $1000 security and 1-yr Dining Hall, thank you tor your dedi· 
Great 6·7 bdrm home available MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. lease. Please call 574·272·0360. cation to The Observer-the paper IRISH CROSSINGS Luxurious, 611/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm avail· 4-5 bdrm,2 bath house in SB. Lots ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006-Faculty,statt or grad. and the people. The paper would spacious homes one block east of able NOW. Both Close to of room. Call Judy 574·298-6217. 2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3·4·5·6·7· not be what it is and we would not campus. Walk to campus year-ND,W/D,on-site parking. NO 8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES 1·bdrm apt. ,furnished, desirable be who we are if it wasn't for your round. Closer to the Joyce Center Internet Canopy access. Call Joe 4 bdrm house, 1.5 ba. Furnished. GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEB· North Shore triangle area. 1 mi.to NO. guidance. Best of luck, and thanks than 24 of the 27 dorms! Now under Crimmins 574-229-3659 Family or 2 grad students. $900/mo SITE . $400/mo +electric 574·233·1604 tor the memories. Love. Claire, Pat, construction! For mo·re information: + utilities.Ciose to NO. 287-7189 or WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR Heather, Mo, Sarah and the staff Go to: www.lrishCrossings.com 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING lvmsg CONTACT: KRAMER 574-234-2436 GEORGETOWN APARTMENT Email: lrishCrossings@gmail.com DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 OR 574-315-5032. HOMES is now leasing for Fall. 1 & Meghanne-1 hate you. I love you 
S.B. AVE-605 ST. PETER CALL Beautiful suite available for gradua-2 bdrm apts avail. Quiet, perfect But most of all, thank you. -Claire One bedroom condo near UNO. All 532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM lion, football weekends and all spe· 3 Blks from NO, 318 Pokagon, 3 location. Call574-272-7286 for appliances. Clean and ready to cia! events. Near NO. Reasonably Bd, 3.5 Bath $1450. NO Discount more info. Have you heard about Joe Hettler? move in. $72,000. Call Kim Kollar 2,4 & 5 B·Rooms,close to campus, priced. NO alum owner/managed. available 7·1-05. He's kind of a big deal. And Lozar's 57 4-280·8160. call 234-9923, ask for Rod. 574-271-7205 Email:pokagon@ hotmail.com www.andersonNDrentals.com senior night speech might top CT.'s. 
Friday, May 13, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
ND SOFTBALL 
After Big East title, Irish ready for postseason 
that these girls do that make "She's really had a great game so well, and she's a great bad, but then~·s a heck of' a lot
Weekend sweep of 
this dass special. ... These girls career at Notre Dame," Gumpf teacher of it." more good," she said. arn just a great group," she said. "She's a great third base­The five-some has deter­The season is not yet over l'or
Rutgers clinches Big 
said. man and a clutch hitter." mined much of the team's drive the Irish. One goal remains ­East championship Ciolli, the team captain, was Wicks, who transferred to for success, Gumpf, who .to make the Collcgn World 
named All-American last year. Notre Dame after her sopho­believes that the senior class Series, a l'eat nevnr bnforn 
According to Gumpf, the team more season at Washington, determines the team's chem­accomplished by Notrn Dame. 
looks to her for leadership. was the final piece of the senior is try, said. "That's tho ultimate," Gumpl'
By KATE GALES 
"We didn't come to play well jigsaw puzzle. "This senior class realized said. "Thorn's nothing bigger or 
Assnd:uc Sports Ediror 
today at practiee," Gumpf said. "She's taught the young girls that and decided, 'This is how I better." "Someone needs to say 'it's not so much about baserunning," want our team to be.' They've Tnn titles, five seniors, one good nnough,' and Megan is Gumpf said. "She's one of those made the decisions on how this Contact Kate Gales at goal. really that pnrson. Megan is not players that understands the team is -the good and the kgales@nd.edu 
Aftnr wrapping up their tenth afraid to say anything to any­wnsnl',utivn Big East rngular­body, and I think that's bnen a snason title, the Irish softball good thing for this tnam ... to te;un is far from finished. have it come from somebody 
"Thny nxpnet to win the Big else other than the coaches." l·:asl., and that's a given," Notre Another key component of the l>anw coach Deanna (;urnpl' team has been Stnnglnin, who is said. "That's just common averaging 12 strikeouts pnr knowlndgn about thn tnam -game. that's just tho way it is here." "She has turned it on the last 
A pair of' lopsided vietorins half of thn snason," Gumpf said. ovt~r HutgNs snalnd the title l'or " ... she's just nasty right now. tlw Irish and ensurml their top She's a tough pitcher to hit, and stwding for the Big East shn's dominated the Big East ... Tournament. Tlw wins left the her stats are awnsonw." Irish with a rnmrd o1'41-ll and Despite a nagging leg injury, a eonl'erenen tally of 16-2. Wisen has also been a major Although the dominating per­eontributor this year. l'ormanens endnd eonl'nronen "She's rnally fallon into the play on a positive note, (;umpl' DP -dnsignatnd player ­said the real culmination was role," Cumpf said. "Shn has had tlw last home game against some dutch hits ... just watch­Syracuse in front of a large ing her hit is so fun, and the honw crowd. whole team loves to watch her 
(;umpf attribulml much of this hit. She's one of those players season's sueenss to the senior -anything you throw at her, dass -Mogan Ciolli, SlniTany she can hit it." Stenglein, Carrie Wisen, Liz Injuries also affected Hartmann and Nieole Wicks. Hartmann's time on the dia­
"Tiwre arn so many things mond. 


Pasquerilla West Graduatesl 
Julie Ann Alderete  Abbi Daugherty  Lisa Kolar  Melissa McWilliams  
Amblyn Allen  Dolores Diaz  Molly Kroeger  Courtney Melone  
Emily Anderson  Christina Esposito  Jill Krause  Anna Kate Milburn  
Kendall Anderson  Leslie Fitzpatrick  Katie Laskasky  Margie Miller  
Christina Aune  Katie Flecky  Karen Lawler  Laurie Moore  
Rebecca Ayala  Beth Franzosa  Katie Lawlor  Kelly Nelson  
Meghan Barnes  Maureen Gibbons  Kristen Leary  Abby Nerlinger  
Ashley Bentzlin-Smith  Cassandra Gomez  Maggie Lee  Kristen Nugent  
Sarah Bates  Allison Gott  Alissa Lemmon  Lauren O'Connor  
Jacqueline Batteast  Erin Guimaraes  Corrine Liamzon  Julianne O'Gorman  
Liz Bell  Ashley Guinn  Lindsay Lichtenberg  Katy Onstad  
Jackie Bowers  Anne Marie Hart  Gina Lopresto  Jennifer Osterhage  
Autumn Brodhecker  Meg Harty  Marianne Magjuka  Maggie Pierson  
Sarah Burgin  Maureen Hattrup  Jennifer Manahan  Lauren Prieto  
Katie Carloss  Mary Heydweiller  Whitney March  Amanda Ryan  
Katie Chenoweth  Amy Houghton  Sonali Mathur  Selena Santillo  
Bor-Shiu Chow  Tiffany Howell  Abby Matus  Ruthie Stefanski  
Erin Condon  Polly Husmann  Meghan McCall  lvonne Tarud  
Megan Connelly  Seethal Jacob  Mary McCarthy  Marie Tesi  
Ashley Cumberworth  Julie Johnson  Katie McCoy  Annee Tousseau  
Jeanette Cunningham  Erin Kennedy  Annemarie McDonough  Kristin Valderas  
Alicia D'Alessandro  Candace King  Maryanne McElwee  Kristin Webster  
Jane Dattilo  Katie Knorr  Bridget McEvoy-Hein  Emily Ziegler  
Katerina Zorina  

page 26 The Obse~ver + SPORTS Friday, May 13, 2005 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Aldridge becomes sixth commitment 
Indiana running back rated in top 5 by several services 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
The number of Irish verbal commitments has grown to six. Running back recruit James Aldridge declared his intention to play for the Irish to Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis May 2. 
Aldridge, who cannot sign a binding letter of intent until February, rushed for 2,067 yards on 281 carries and scored 20 touchdowns as a junior last season at Merrillville (Ind.) High. He is listed as one of the top 100 players in the nation by Rivals. com. 
"The kid is d@.nitely one of the top three running backs in the entire country," Mike Frank of Irisheyes.com said. "He's a rare combination of size and speed and has the ability to make people miss. He's a big body but has the ability to break the long ones." 
Aldridge (6'1", 215) agreed with this assessment of his tal­ents in a statement released on lrisheyes.com. 
"A lot of people don't expect me to be as fast as I am for my size, but I'm real quick," Aldridge, who runs a 4.6 second forty-yard dash, said. 
Hecruited by some schools as a linebacker, Aldridge is expect­ed to suit up at running back for the Irish. Besides his success running the ball, Aldridge caught 11 passes for 290 yards and two touchdowns. 
"He's just an absolutely huge signing for Notre Dame," Frank said. "I·Ie's a featured back. He's a 'hoss.' He's a guy who can dominate a game." 

In the days leading up to his decision, he narrowed his list of schools to Notre Dame and Oklahoma State. He received offers from numerous other pro­grams including USC, Oklahoma, Nebraska, Iowa, Virginia, Missouri and Purdue. 
"I just got a real good feeling when I was [at Notre Dame]," Aldridge said to Irisheyes.com. "I felt confident about what I could do at Notre Dame, and it's just the right place for me. 
''I've got great vision because a lot of the stuff that I do when I run the ball, for some reason, I don't remember actually doing it ... I always leave room for myself to improve and get bet­ter." 
Aldridge grew up outside St. Louis, Mo., where he was a childhood friend of fellow Irish running back recruit Munir Prince, until his family moved to Indiana before his junior year of high school. 
He joins a relatively large crop of Notre Dame recruits, consid­ering national signing day is nine months away. The other players to give their verbal com­mitment to the Irish include Prince, wide receiver Barry Gallup (Mass.), quarterback Zach Frazer (Penn.), defensive end Kallen Wade (Ohio) and tight end Paddy Mullen (Mo.). 
One of the most higly touted players being recruited by the Irish is Morgan Park (Ill.) quar­terback Demetrius Jones. He is a member of the Rivals.com top­100 and and Scout.com lists his interest in Notre Dame as 'high'. 
"I think (Jones) likes Notre Dame a lot," Frank said. "There's a good possibility that he'll sign with Notre Dame in the end." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
'RoCC0 S Special Hours for Graduation 
May 15th 4pm-10pm H.estaurant No Reservations Please 
Cf'irst Oriaina( Pizza in ~own! 
Since 1951 Specializing in ftalian Entrees Tu~s. -Thurs.: 5:00PM-ll:OOPM Fri. -Sat.: S:OOPI\1-1:00AM 

037 North St. Louis South Bend, IN 574-2'33-24()4 
Attention Students! SUMMER WORK 
• 
Excellent Pay • Flexible schedules • 

• 
Customer sales/service 

• 
No exp. needed -will train 

• 
Immediate Openings 

• 
All ages 17+ 

• 
Conditions apply 


Apply Now, Start After Finals! 
CALL 273-4878 
ND TRACK AND FIELD 
Both teatnS take second in Big East 
Panthers. Unfortunately,
Rutgers wins men's 
while some athletes record­
division, Pittsburgh ed personal bests, the team as a whole had a typical
takes women's title meet. "A couple people ran awe­some meets, but most of the team was · 
By CHRIS KHOREY 
pretty much
Sports Writer 
average," 
Erigha turned in her usual impressive performance for the women, winning the 100 meters and finishing second in the 200. 
"She's just a great sprint­er," Connelly said. 
Another important event for the 

the coach ''A couple people ran Irish was the Thanks in part to stellar said. men's ham­
great meets, but most of 
performances from sprinters Connelly mer throw,
the team was pretty
Selim Nurudeen and said the where Chip Maryann Erigha, the Notre Irish may much average." Roberts, Kyle Dame men's and women's have been Annen and track and field teams both tired follow­Garet Koxlien
Tim Connelly
finished second at the Big ing a gruel­all finished in
Irish assistant coach 
East Championships May 5-8 ing exam in Piscataway, N.J. week. 
Rutgers won the me·n's "I think title, besting Notre Dame just having exams hurt us," 192-143.5, while Pittsburgh he said. "Exams are tough, took home the women's tro­you really beat yourself up. I phy by totaling 176 points think our team is more tired compared to Notre Dame's after exams than during 
113.5. study days." 
Assistant coach Tim Despite Connelly's disap-Connelly said pointment, the the result, Irish competed 
while disap­"You're never happy well at the 
pointing, was with second place, but meet. not unexpect­They fin-
when we looked at it,
ed. ished 26.5 
we saw that was
"You're points ahead never haJM!y probably going to of third place with second Pittsburgh in
happen."
place, but the men's when we competition looked at it, Tim Connelly and 31.5 we saw that Irish assistant coach points ahead that was of third place probably West Virginia going to happen," Connelly in the women's division. said. "[Rutgers and Leading the way for the Pittsburgh] are very good. Irish men was star sprinter They're talented and very Nurudeen, who won the 110 deep." meter hurdles championship 
According to Connelly, the for the fourth time in his Irish needed to step up career with a time of 13.65 across the board to compete seconds, his best mark this with the Scarlet Knights and season. 
the top six 
and earned a 
combined 19 points. 
Notre Dame dominated the men's steeplechase, where Ryan Johnson finished first, followed closely by Irish run­ners Jake Watson and Todd Ptacek. 
The Irish distance runners showed their strength in the men's 10,000 meters, scor­ing 13 points by· placing four runners in the top eight. Kaleb Van Ort paced the Irish with a third place fin­ish. The 192 points scored by the Rutgers men tied a Big East record, matching Connecticut's total in 2002. The Pittsburgh women almost set a record of their own, finishing one point behind Villanova's 1984 record of 177 points. 
Next up for the Irish is the Georgia Tech Invitational today in Atlanta, a tune-up for the NCAA regionals May 27 and 28. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


Mike Brenan -(Class of '71) a 30-year hospitality industry veteran, is pleased to announce the development of South Bend's newest Condominium/ Hotel. This exciting new venture will feature over 150 exquisite rooms modeled in the fashion of a traditional Irish Lodge. This "second home" opportunity offers to its owners the finest in accom­modations while visiting Notre Dame for football or fun. Additionally, all owners will have the option of placing their unit in a professionally managed, Hotel rental pool during times when they will not be using it for themselves or friends! 
Initially priced from $89,950-this property is poised to become South Bend's premiere hospitality destination. 
Amenities include: Lismore -Continental Dining in a polished but comfortable setting Brigid's -A true Irish Pub for the Leprechaun in all of us. Indoor & Outdoor Pools as well as an Executive Fitness Center for the young of all ages! 
With an anticipated Opening in Spring of '06 we expect this real estate opportunity to subscribe quickly. For more information call Mike Brenan at 312/203-1732 or email us at mikbren@comcast.net. Call now and become a part of the Notre Dame family all year long! 
Prices. offers. and spectlications are subject to change without notice. Not an offer where prohibited. 
J;riday, May 13, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
FENCING 
Irish dominate competition en route to title 
N 0 edges Ohio State 173-171 in National Championship meet 
By ERIC RETTER 
Spons Writer 
Things couldn't have beon much better for the Irish this soason -as the team ended anotlw r do rn inati ng year by winning the NCAA tillo in dramatic fashion. 
By tho standards the pro­gram has buill, Notre Damn's start was sub par. 
While tlw thon-No. 4 men's tnam went 3-1 at the NYU Duals, the women's learn ­ranked no. 2 at the time ­dropped two of its first four rnatdws of' the season. end­ing llwir 41-rnatch winning streak. 
Tho women promptly began another streak, going (,-0 at thn Notre Damn Duals. 
This avnngnd thnir loss to Ohio Stale while starting what would beconw an 18­maldl string of' wins to nnd the season, while the men's only dnfnal of the weekend again came against tho Buckeyes. 
AI'Lnr qualifying 11 foncers out of a possible 12 for the NCAA finals, the Irish were confident in their chances for anothnr title. It was an 
opportunity on which they would capitalize. 
Notre Dame trailed until the very last bout but came from behind to edge Ohio State 173-171. 
Aftor tho men concluded their competition on the sec­ond day of tho four-day ovnnt. Notrn Damn was in second place, 24 points bnhind Ohio State, and a comobaek appeared difl'icult. 
llowever, partly because Ohio State qualil'ied only five wonwn to Notre Dame's six, revnrsing the numbers from tho men's field, and partly because of top-4 individual performances from many mernbors of the team, including senior Alicja Kryczalo, sophomores Valerie Providenza and Amy Orlando and freshman Marie! Zagunis, Notre Dame was able to slowly erase the deficit. 
The team cut it to 13 after the first day of the women's competition before clinching at least a share of the cham­pionship when Alicja Kryczalo won her l'inal bout, a title they would gain out­
right  when  Ohio  State's  
Metta  Thompson  lost  to  
Katia  Larchanka  of  St.  
John's.  

Notre Dame ended with nine All-Americans including seniors Michal Sobieraj, Alicja Kryczalo and Andrea Ament, who all ended their careers as four-time All Americans, as well as sopho­mores Matt Stearns, Patrick Ghattas, Valerie Providenza and Amy Orlando and fresh­man Marie! Zagunis. 
Sobieraj won the men's foil national championship while Kryezalo finished as a run­ner-up in the foil. Ghattas and Zagunis finished second in the men's and women's foil, respectively, and Orlando took second place in the women's epee. 
Kryczalo ends her career as a three-time national champion and senior Kerry Walton walks away with a national title, having won in 2002 in addition to finishing second in 2004, the same year that sophomore ValMie Providenza won the sabre title. Ament will end her career with two runner-up finishes, losing to Kryczalo in the finals both in 2002 and 2004. 
The title gives the Irish two NCAA championships in the past three seasons, a feat the program has now accom­plished three times. 
Notre Dame now has seven total national titles -three mon's, one womon's and three championships since the NCAA combined men and women into one division in 1990. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

·~ 
Observer File Photo 

Diego Qulonez competes during the Notre Dame Duals on Feb. 
26. The Irish won the national championship a few weeks later, clipping second place Ohio State by two points. 
UNIVERSITY Ol' 
NOTRE DAME 


Al.•lJM N I ASSOCIATION 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association and 
The Student Alumni Relations Group congratulate the Class of2005, And also recognize the following recipients ofthe J'J'h Annual Hall Spirit Award: 
History ofthe Hall Spirit Award 
The Hall Spirit Award was established in 1989 to recognize the importance ofcommunity as evidenced in Notre Dame's residence halls. The Hall Spirit Award is voted by the residents of each hall to recognize the senior who has most exemplified the spirit of Notre Dame through his or her personality, character, and actions. In addition, the recipient is the person who, in the eyes ofthe hall's residents, has made the dorm a better place to live, work, play, and study. The Alumni Association sponsors the award as part of its outreach to students and hopes to share its goals of service to God, community, and Notre Dame. The association congratulates the 2005 Hall Spirit Award recipients and thanks them for their commitment to the University ofNotre Dmne! 
Hall  Recipient  Hometown  Rector/Rectress  
Alumni Hall  Benjmnin O'Connor  Aurora, IL  Reverend George Rozum, C.S.C.  
Badin Hall  Kenna Brewer  Orlando, FL  Anne Napoli  
Breen-Phillips Hall  Kati Duffey  Mobile, AL  Rebecca Davidson  
Carroll Hall  Sean Dudley  West Bloomfield, MI Reverend James Lewis, 0. Carm  
Cavm1augh Hall  Sara Gilloon  Dubuque, IA  Sister Patticia Dearbaugh, IHM  
Dillon Hall  Galen Loughrey  Albuquerque, NM  Reverend Paul Doyle, C.S.C.  
Farley Hall  Nicole Parker  Urbana, IL  Sister Carrine Etheridge, IHM  
Fisher Hall  Joseph Guintu  Newbury Park, CA  Reverend Robert Moss, C.S.C.  
Howard Hall  Charleen Vinalon  Tampa, FL  Kathleen Brannock  
Keem:m llall  Troy Androli  Baxter, MN  Reverend Mark B. Thesing, C.S.C.  
Keough Hall  Nicholas Dobbertin  Rochester, NY  Reverend Peter Jarret, C.S.C.  
Knott Hall  Brian Tracy  Wilkes-Barre, PA  Brother Jerome Meyer, C.S.C.  
Lewis Hall  Sheila Dawes  Midlothian, VA  Ms. Catherine Winikates  
Lyons Hall  Shantha Ready  Granger, IN  Sister Susan Dunn, OP  
McGlinn Hall  Claire Hagan  Pittsburgh, P A  Beth Skinner  
Morrissey Manor  Justin Sterusky  Loveland, OH  Reverend John Steele, C.S.C.  
O'Neill Hall  Brian Vasscl  Akron, OH  Edward M. Mack  
Pangborn HaJJ  Courtney Jianas  Kansas City, MO  Heather Rakoczy  
Pasquerilla East  Emily Gorman  Kansas City, KS  Sister Mary Ann Mueninghoff, OP  
Pasquerilla West  Anna Kate Milburn  Harrison, AR  Sister Sue Bruno, OSF  
Saint Edward's Hall  Brendan Barrett  Sayville, NY  Reverend Thomas J. Eckert, C.S.C.  
Siegfried Hall  Marc Steining  Burnsville, MN  Reverend John Conley, C.S.C.  
Sorin Hall  Vincente Tennerelli  Industry, P A  Reverend James King, C.S.C.  
Stanford Hall  Gregory Borchardt  Lorena, TX  Reverend Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C.  
Walsh Hall  Christina Bax  Naperville, IL  Sister Patricia Thomas, OP  
Welsh Fan1ily Hall  Demetrius Hall  Los Angeles, CA  Cm1dace Carson  
Zahm Hall  Matthew Padberg  South Bend, IN  Reverend Daniel J. Parrish, C.S.C.  



Friday, May 13, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 29 
BASEBALL 
•
I I
Irish steadily improving, still hoping for 40 victories 

Team turned season around, renzains optimistic about year 
By TOM DORWART 
Sports Wri1rr 
To Irish 1·oach Paul Mainieri, tlw first 42 gamns of' Irish base­hall in 200S haw hPnn a talc of two snasons. 
"I look at Uw snason likn wn'vn had two snasons. so in a 56­ganw sdwduln, if you look at tho first hall' or thn smtson, bning 28 garnns, wn worn 14-14," Mainieri said. "In tho Sl~eorHI part of the SPaSOII wn're 13-J-(. 
"Wn'JJ just continuo to Pmpha­sizn that 'second season' and hopn that we ean keep it going." 
Notre Dame (27-18-1, 10-7-1 Big East after last weekend's Sf~rins at St. .John'sl played its first 1(J games on the road. The Irish paeked their bags for Florida, Arizona and Texas road swings. In addition to the road woos, the Irish had nunwrous injury problems. 
Sophomore right-hander .Jess Stnwart, who won SIWfHJ games as a frnshman standout pitcher. was out l<u· most of April with a knoe injury, while fellow sopho­more right-handor .lefT Manship and senior right-handor John Axford have also been slowed in eomnbaek efforts from rer.on­structivn elbow surgery. The vital roles on the Irish pitching thrensonHl -expected at the stall'-have thrown a combined boginning of the season to play 23.1 innings. 
Think of us when planning your Alumni Weekend! 

A 1-/undred Thousand Welcot1>1es &. a Celtic experience await you...Enjoy a hearty breakfast, cozy.. bt:.u:l,. .fine rnusic, good books~ nostalgic.1novies ~11:d a peaceji"l atfftosphere during yours:t;ay... 
Voted 3rd year in a row a readers choice favorite in the South Bend Tribune 
• 
Accepting reservations for Graduation 

and can accomodate large parties 

• 
2 locations convenient to Notre Dame: 

•Downtown 
South Bend across from the Hall of Fame 288-PEEP 


•Mishawaka off Main St. next to Super Target 271-PEEP 
6:30am -2:00pm Mon-Fri 7:00am -2:00pm Sat & Sun 
·--juY-o.1e-e-t1tree Qet-a-seco.1dei1treetYe_e_-~ 
second entree must be ofequal or lesser value (valid weekdays and not to be used with any other offer)
1 1 I Observer coupon • expires o6/3o/2005 I 
~-----------------------------------------~ 
In early March at the Alamo City Irish Baseball Classic, the hometown team, Texas-San Antonio, sent the Irish to their fifth straight loss -the first time in the 11-year Mainieri era the Irish have dropped five games in­a-row. 
Things looked bleak. Notre Dame went 10-8 in the next 18 games. 
But, due to some shakeups in the lineup, better del'nnse and some homo games, the Irish have turned their season around ­drastieally. 
"We've still got a shot at win­ning the (Big East! regular sea­son title," Mainieri said. "I think we're a much better team here at the bnginning ol' May than we wem at the boginning of March; we'll see how far wn ean lake it." 
"When we f'lip-llopped Brott Lilley to third base and Hoss Bresovsky to sncond base, partic­ularly Brett l.illey has madn us a better team by bning at third base," Mainieri said. "lin's mak­ing the plays at third that we weren't making for tho first hall' of the season, and combined with Greg Lopez at shortstop, we now have a very solid left sid1~ ol' tho infield defensively. It's allowing our pitchers to pitch with a lot more confidence." 
The Irish have pulled their usual April and May magic. In Mainieri's 11 years at Notre Dame, his teams have combined to win 80.3 pnn~ent of their April games. 
The tnam EHA has dropped to 4.50, while the fielding pen~ent­age has risen to .957. Lilley leads the squad with a .372 batting average and a .523 on-base pnr­centage. And, most importantly, the Irish are 18-3-1 at home. 
Despite the slow start to the season, the Irish always expected success. 
Congratulations, Class of 2005. 
Good luck wherever 
life takes you. 
I I 
.. 
I I 
I I I I I 
I I I I I I I I 
' 
I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
' 
I 
I I I I I I 
l I 
"Our goals have not changnd, neenssarily, bneause our goal is 
I still to gnl in to the NCM tourna­I 
I
ment." Maininri said. "This year I it's bt~en a little bit ol' a struggle l in some ways. II' we finish strong, I I 
~
we still eould accomplish tlw things that we're usnd to aemm­1 
l I
plishing around lwre." 
Thosn aecomplishmnnts are no nasy tasks. On the linn is tho I h­( year 40-win streak. With the Big 
l 
East tournamnnt in roaeh, its preservation is morn than possi­
ble. 

llownver, tlw streak. the Big East championship and tlw NCAA lournanwnt are not just about winning and losing. 
They'rn about pride. 
"Wn'vn had sonw vntoran play­ers that have struggled a lillln bit," Mainieri said. "But we still havn 13 ganws loft to go in our season, plus hopof'ully tlw post­season. and if llwsn kids can n~ally rngroup and makn a strong push to the finish. tlwn I think that will bP tlwir h•gar.y ­that a lot ol' pnopln that muntnd this team out <~arly in tlw year wlwn we worn 14-14, everybody said. 'Wnll this team dons not havn it this ynar; it's going to lw a bad ynar,' but horn wn an~ now 27-15-1 with 13 gamns rmnain­ing, and we still havn a gn•al opportunity to accomplish nvery­thing that wn'd want to acr.om­plish in a season. 
"I think that would lw a trmnnndous lng<u~y of this temn." 
Can thn 2005 Irish basnhall tnam lnavn a lngaey, or will it nnd 16 ynars ol' 40 wins'? Maininri knows it's up to thn playnrs thnmsnlvns to finish thn taln. 
"Thn story is not finishml ynt," lw said. "Wo'll havn to son how thn story finishes." 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 
page 30 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, May 13, 2005 

Dear Graduates, 
-
Prayers and best wishes to members of the Class of 2005. On behalf of the 
University, I would like to thank you for the many and varied contributions 
you have made to the University as students. Your presence among us has greatly 
enriched this community. 
For those ofyou who are graduating seniors, I hope your time at Notre Dame has been fruitful, that you are leaving the University not only with a superb education but also with wonderful friends who will be part ofyour life long after Commencement. I pray that you have grown in faith during your years at Notre Dame and that you will always seek to turn your gifts to the service of God's people. Wherever life's journey may lead, you are likely to encounter fellow Notre Dame graduates working to improve their corner of the world, in every imagin­able profession and field ofendeavor. We take great pride in all of the ways our graduates contribute to and serve their families, the Church, and society, and I am confident that you will be part of this rich heritage. 
For those of you receiving graduate or professional degrees, I hope you will carry 
with you the best of our traditions as they relate to your discipline. We are certain 
that you will represent Notre Dame well, not only through your professional 
accomplishments but also by your commitment to justice and adherence to 
ethical standards. I wish you much success in all ofyour endeavors. 
May Our Lady, Notre Dame, be with you and watch over you always. 
In Notre Dame, 

(Rev.) Mark L. Poorman, C.S.C. Vice President for Student Affairs 
P."'*.~J-.. UN IVERS IT Y 0 F 

NOTRE DAME 
l;riday, May 13, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 31 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish beat UCLA for second ever national championship 
to critical Big East matchups
Notre Danze wins 
such as Conneeticut on Sept. 17, thn tnarn allownd little room for
title on penalty kicks 
error. In thn elosn 1-0 win, the 
over Bruins in final team looked upon senior defender Kate Tulisiak to makn an assist to Cinalli for thn goal.
By DAN TAPETILLO 
This was Tulisiak's first point for Sports Writn 
tho Irish, a player who missed last season bneause of nagging 
This was a etdebration. This injuries. The victory imprnssed was a mission. This was a gamn Waldrum because of' how well that rwPdncl doubln ovnrtimn the team performed as a unit. and penalty kirks to pull out thn "Katn rnadn a great read to win. intnrct~pt tho ball, and we all are 
But for Llw Irish, tlw NCAA so happy fi>r her. She has been ch anr pionshi p vietory was thn sueh a hard worker and really highlight of an irnprossivn 24-1-has eorne on during the last six 1 rncord this yoar. months," Waldrum said to 
Tlw tnanr got off to a strong und.eom aft1~r the win. "Our start narly in tlw snason, with a dnpth was a key tonight bneausn 7-2 victory over Baylor on of tho tnmpo of the game. We August 27. Forward Katin felt comfortable with putting so Thorlakson had a stnllar pm·­many playnrs into the gamr~. .... lhrnranco, as slw was a part of and that ean make all the difli~r­all sevnn points, tying a Notrn ence." Damn reeorcl. Othnr notabln Another consistent and key perfornranens in thn win indud­porformnr for the Irish this sea­nd forward Amanda Cinalli, who son was rnidf'inlder Jen seorml tho first two goals of the Buczkowski. On Oet. 16, eontost, and Candaen Chapman, Buczkowski made her second who also seon~d two goals for last-minute goal to pull out the extended the team's victory total from making a run in the NCAA managed to get the 1-1, 4-3 tlw tnam. 1-0 win for the Irish over No. 20 to 53 games against Big East championships as the No. 4 seed penalty-kick victory ovnr the 
l>nspitn thn victory, Irish eoaeh Boston College, the first coming opponents at home and claimed in the tournament. The Irish Bruins. Handy Waldrum still nxpncted against Georgetown on Oct. 10. the Big East regular season title defeated Eastern Illinois, After Thorlakson missed tlw morn from thn tnam. Thn assist came from defender for Notre Dame Wisconsin, Connecticut, first of seven penalty kiek 
"I didn't think we were sharp Kim Lorenzen otT of a pass from The only loss this season came Portland and Santa Clara to attempts by the Irish, goals from the wholn night." Waldrum said midf'ieldnr Ashley Jones. during the Big East champi­reach the championship game Sarah Kalpenny, Buczkowski, to und.com al'tnr the win. "Now, However, the strong pnrform­onship game against against UClA on Dec. 5 in Cary, Annie Schefter and .Jill Krivaenk wn st:ornd somn fantastie goals, ancns from dnfenders Melissa Connecticut on Nov. 7. The only NC. and a miss by the Bruin's but I didn't font likn wn ever Taneredi, Gudrun goal for the Irish in the 2-1 After trailing 1-0 in the sec­Lindsay Greco clinched the win eontrollnd thn tempo of the Gunnarsdottir, Christie Shaner defeat came from Jones, the ond half, surviving a penalty for Notre Dame. ganw likn I nxpected us to and Lorenzen, were not only first of her career. kiek otl' a save from goalie Erika against thnm." key in this match but through­Despite the loss late in the Bohn and getting through dou­Contact Dan Tapetillo at 
llowtwnr, wlwn it eamn down out thn entire season. This win season, it did not stop the Irish ble overtime, Notre Dame still jtapetil@nd.edu 


-
We're proud to announce the full-time employees and interns who have chosen to take a position with KPMG. We're committed to the University of Notre Dame and congratulate you on your decision to fly high with a recognized leader. Welcome to the team. KPMG Affirmative Action, Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F/DN. 
Full Time  Robert Gorynski  Tom Raaf  Interns  Mark Meisner  
James Backes  Joseph Hagan  Thomas Reid  Jason Alter  Matthew Paluch  
Richard Baren  Elizabeth Hammer  John Tokarz  Jessica Beguin  Austin Pauls  
John Boots  Adam Heim  Sarah Wedell  Adam Braun  Michael Ragsdale  
Michael Burkholder  Jamie Lamers  Nick Vogel  Angela Celis  Alana Reyes  
Matthew Cox  Shannon Langan  JingJing Zhang  Sean Dennis  Jeff Schaffer  
Cassie Doar  James Lowder  Eric Zdyb  Erin Diffley  Rebecca Tapp  
Kevin Dolan  J. Michael Milligan  Stefanie Dittert  Laura Trettle  
Jennifer Farnbauch  Brendan Philbin  Kyle Guenther  Carol Weber  
Lisa Garcia  David Purcell  Kristen King  

www.kpmgcampus.com 
AUDIT • TAX • ADVISORY 
~~ 2005 KPMG LLP. the U.S. member firm of KPMG International, a Swiss cooperative. All rights reserved. 

The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, May 13, 2005 


Joyce Center Fieldhouse Friday, May 13th 9pm -12am 
.. 
-


! 
I 
' 
I' ., ' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 

' I 
' 
'I ­
I 
I 
I 
Friday, May 13, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS 
HOCKEY 
Poulin resigns follow-ing season 
Former Islanders' assistant Jeff Jackson becomes new head coach 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associare Spons Ediror 
Al'tPr a 5-27-6 season which resulted in Irish coach Dave Poulin stepping down as head coach to take a front offiee position, Notre Damn has responded by going in a dif­l'orent direction. 
Jnf'f Jackson was named as Notre Dame's head hockey coach on May 6, bncoming the fourth head eoaeh in the mod­ern era of Irish hockey. 
Jackson brings an impres­sive resume to South Bend. Jackson coached Lake Superior State to three straight trips to the NCAA Championship game from 1992-1994, winning the title in 1992 and 1994. 
During his limn at Lake Superior Statn, Jackson also 
took his team  to six consecu­ 
tive  NCAA  tournament  
appearances.  

Jackson moved on to the prol'nssional ranks after his linw at Lake Superior, coach­ing tlw Guelph Storm of the Ontario lloekey League. lin coached thnrn until two sea­sons ago, when he became an assistant eoach for the New York Islanders. 
Jackson takns over a team that appeared in the NCAA tournament in the 2003-2004 SIHtson. However, last year the Irish had trouble seoring goals all season and finished last in the CCIIA. The team was winless in the last 19 games of the season. 
Irish players are already nxeited about Jackson and his pnwious nxperience corning into this season. 
"I think its great," nsmg junior forward Josh Sciba said. "lie's corning from a tremendous background so there's nothing that we can complain about at all." 
In his press conference, Jackson was very direct about his expeetations for turning around the Irish program ­noting that he has to examine whore the tmtrn is before tak­ing the next step and giving respect to those who came beforn him. 
"I need to evaluate where we are and what we need to do," Jackson said to und.eom. "I sincerely believe that thoro's a tradition here stem­ming back from the days of Coach I Lefty I Smith and Coach (Hie( Schafer, and I think when the CCI-lA entered Notre Dame back into their league and Dave Poulin came here, I think it took another step." 
Jackson stressed that disci­pline and hard work are keys to having a successful hockey team. It is that attitude the new coach will bring to his young players. 
"I really believe it's all about work ethic and discipline," Jackson told und.com. "You have to get the players here who ean play, but then it's all about work ethic and disci­pline. The old saying is 'snarch for eagles and then teach them to fly in forma­tion."' 
Players agree that hard work will be neP.ded to turn around the Irish fortunes next year, and Jackson has already addressed this in his one meeting with the team. 
"Before we left. rJackson I had a meeting with us," Sciba said. "He wants us to work on our conditioning and basically be prepared for when we come back in tho fall. We can be a contender in our league again and not be in the base­ment of our league again. 
"From the time he came out, everybody was in awe and in shock. His demeanor is very serious, upbeat ... pas­sionate about his job. Everyone liked the way he responded and acted in that meeting." 
The new coach will inherit a team that is young, only grad­uating three seniors this sea­son. Captain Cory McLean, Joe Zurenko and goalie Morgan Cey will graduate this weekend. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 


What are you doing 
next fall? 
r 

,/ Get a head start on your career with a one-year Accelerated MBA from Illinois Institute of Technology's Stuart Graduate School of Business 
If you're a senior-or recent grad-this program gives you the business skills you need to land a great job in virtually any business environment. 
Our unique advantages include 
· 16 course programs · Internationally recognized faculty · AACSB-accredited · Convenient downtown Chicago location 
Call 1 312.906.6576 
E-mail Iadmissions@stuart.iit.edu 
RSVP I www.stuart.iit.edu/openhouse 
page 33 

Young Irish struggle fro111 start to finish 
Rebuilding teanz wins onlyfive of38 games and nets just 60 goals 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associare Sports Editor 
Corning off an NCAA tourna­ment berth, the Irish knew it would be difficult to repPat their success with a young team that graduated a good amount of their talent. 
However, a five-win season was not exactly what the Irish players, coaches and fans were expecting. 
On February 12, the Irish were tied with Ferris State at three goals each when the puck got loose in the near eorner. 
With the Irish pressing, trying to seore a go-ahead goal, a 3-on­2 break ensued on tho other end, leading to a game-winning short­handed goal with 53 seconds remaining. 
It was this type of head-shak­ing play that defined Notre Dame's hockey 
said. "As well as a disappoint­ment for the team eollectively." 
Walsh credited his old coach for preparing the team each game, placing responsibility on the shouldnrs of himself' and the rnst of his teammates. 
"They gave us the game plan. and it's our job to go out and execu to it," Walsh said. "We were never ill-prepared for any­thing. 
"It comes from the leadership on down. As an assistant (cap­tainl. it was my job to better pre­pare everyone." 
The season was not a eompletn loss for the Irish, as goalie Morgan Cey kept the team in every game in which they playnd. 
Coy was outstanding all sea­son, and Poulin praised him all year for his excellence and his leadership, oven when the team was struggling. 
In the squad's final game against Michigan, Cey hold the Wolverines to just ono goal ­saving 43 shots in the overtime loss. 
Next season, Jell' Jackson will be the Irish head coaeh -and he brings with 
season. "Everybody is looking at him an impres­
Bising senior sive rnputation. 
one another wondering 
Mike Walsh J a c k s o n spoke about the when that next bounce is coached Lake frustration that going to go our way. " Superior State to 
began to build as three straight the struggles national title
Mike Walsh 
continued with gamns, winning each game. Irish assistant captain in 191)2 and 
"Everybody is looking at one another wonder­ing when that next bounce is going to go our way," Walsh said. 
Unfortunately, the Irish never got those lucky bounces. 
Following a 2-1 win over Rensselaer on January 2, the Irish proceeded to go winless in their last 19 games of the season -including two losses to Michigan in the CCHA playofl's. 
The 5-27 -6-finish was enough to force head coach Dave Poulin to step down from his position and take a development job in the front office. 
"Obviously for every individual and in terms of their goals, it was a disappointment," Walsh 
1994. Jackson has been an a.<;sistant mach with the New York Islanders for the last two seasons. 
While being careful not to show any disrespect for his for­mer coach, Walsh oxprnssed that having a new coach in charge has alrnady provided a spark for next season. 
"Everybody's excited. Its a breath of fresh air within the program." Walsh said. 
"Everyonn is eager to show IJaeksonl that last year was not who we are as a team or as players." 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
_.. 
-


.. 

p~ge 34 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, May 13, 2005 
MEN'S GOLF 

Irish win tw-o tournatnents in best season in decades 
Kubinski leads team to victories in Tulane Invitational and Big East Championship, as well as strong finish in Augusta 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 

A new coach and a new begin­ning for the Irish this winter not only salvaged Notre Dame's sea­son, they helped propel the team to its best year in decades. 
The Irish now have a chance to reach the NCAA Championships with a strong showing at the 
... NCAA Central Regional May 19­
21. The team will have a distinct advantage, as Notre Dame's Warren Golf Course will play home to the event. 
"We're really excited !for the regionalsl," first-year head coach Jim Kubinski said. "I think all the guys on our team have been play­ing really well. 
To qualify for the NCAA Championships, to be held in Baltimore June 1-4, the Irish must finish tenth or better at the Regional. Last year's team came in as the No. 24-seed and finished 12th. This year's team is seeded only four spots higher, but has momentum on its side after a tremendous spring. 
The defending Big East champi­ons played lackluster golf in the fall, with the team's best finish a fifth-place showing in the year's first tournament, the Inverness Intercollegiate. 
By the end of the fall stretch, the Irish had experienced ups and downs, and head coach John Jasinski went on administrative leave within two weeks of the 

team's final fall tournament. Less than a month later, he resigned. 
After an extensive search, which inoluded a subcommittee of Irish golfers interviewing a "short list" of four candidates for the head coaching position, the Irish hired the former Duke assis­tant Kubinski. 
Nominated for the 2004 Golf Coaches' Association of America Assistant Coach of the Year award, Kubinski brought high expectations for himself and the program, along with an enthusi­asm that appealed to team mem­bers. 
The Irish shot up the polls this spring with two wins and a grati­fying seventh-place finish in the Augusta State Invitational, a tour­nament in which the field consist­ed of over a dozen NCAA quali­fiers. However, Kubinski says he has "only accomplished about 20 percent" of what he wants to achieve at Notre Dame. 
"I think the guys have had to go through a lot this year," he said. 'They made an adjustment to a new coach. For where we are ... I couldn't be happier." 
Where they are is two-time defending Big East champions, preparing to host the Central Regional. 
And the turnaround from the fall was evident in Notre Dame's first spring tournament. 
Traveling to the Bayou to com­pete against thirteen teams in the Nokia Sugar Bowl/Tulane Invitational, the Irish beat UNC­Wilmington on the first playoff hole to capture a surprising victo­ry. Nearly every other team in the field had competed in a previous tournament, while Notre Dame struggled just to get in practice rounds because of the South Bend weather. 
But the Irish played exception­ally well, led by Cole Isban's 221 (73-71-77). 
The Irish continued their strong play, capturing fourth place in the Irish Springs Invitational in Florida and second in the Gen. Jim Hackler Invitational in South Carolina. 
After the Augusta State Invitational, Notre Dame came home to face Texas Christian University in a dual match. 
A poor 299 by the Irish in the final round allowed TCU to come from behind to win, but the high­light of the match was Irish golfer Mark Baldwin's opening round seven-under 63. The score set not only the Warren Golf Course record, but it also beat the 40­year-old Notre Dame team mark by a stroke. 
Kubinski said that Baldwin and lsban have each played like MVPs this spring. 
"Cole came into the spring as the No. 1 player with high expec­tations, and he met them," Kubinski said. "But I think Mark beat his expectations. He's just had a great spring." 
The Irish hit a bump in the road at the Texas A&M Invitational, finishing a disappointing 14th in the competitive tournament, and Kubinski accepts responsibility for the last-place showing. 


"I take the blame for that [tour­nament]. I didn't stress enough how strong that that field in Texas was," he said. 
The team was able to move on quickly, coming back home the next week to win a snow-short­ened Big East Championship. It was the team's flfth Big East title in the ten years they have com­peted in the conference. 
And for the second straight sea­son, the Irish earned an automat­ic spot in NCAA regionals by win­ning the conference title. Because the Big East only gained an auto­matic berth into the NCAA tour­nament five years ago, Notre Dame's last appearance in the tournament before 2004 was in 1966. 
Now, the team looks to get one step past the regionals, by advancing to Baltimore. 
Kubinski is confident in his team's ability. 
"There were 18 teams in Augusta, and probably 15, 16, 17 of those 18 are going to be in the NCAA tournament. Beating the Dukes and Wake Forests and Clemsons ... shows what we can do." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

Vou'Jl /llwaVs be ".Tarlev's finest" Class of2005 
Rebecca Marks TiffaJ1tte Makomes Allis ott T ralittkam Mdittba MoraJ1 RackdRamos Nikki Parker Nicole Rapasttatti 
Hattttak Gornik Mariatta Kow AttaMarie Ortiz Kaf11 Rliatt 
Marsaret Daltlsrett 
Merebitl1 B14ms Theresa Browtt Mdattie la14ck A tttte Stolz Stefattie Marshall Katk~tt Bethea Mesatt Davissott Jattelle Osabebali Mawreet1 Ritckeli Erica Kattc Ellett l<mttebli Measat1 Powers 
Mcskattt1 Tabor Let1a Calisiwri 
Mcsatt Fwller 
Mcsatt H1ittes Att11ie W alorski Beth Dwratt Alicia Mo"Mtero Racltd K14tz1¢li Catkeritte lam )acqudit1e Zet1t1 Ma14rectt Mwlvatteli Claire Kettkd Ckristit1e Haislwp Sabritta Babscr Kimmli Moore Lil1bSa'i MacRal1ba11 Nicole KettttCbli-Villafat1e Dattielle LaFramboise 


Friday, May 13, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 35 _ 
FOOTBALL 

Season plagued by inconsistency ends in disappoinbnent 
Turbulent year includes blowout losses to Purdue and Southern Cal, leads to Willingham's firing and Weis' hiring • 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
In the 2004 season. time sim­ply ran out on Tyrone Willing­ham. 
After thnH~ seasons as head coach. Willingham lweamn the first Notre Damn hnad football coach to lw fired bnforn his orig­inal contract expirnd. 
Willingham lnd thn Irish to a 6-6 record in his final snason. earning sornn significant vieto­rins but also suiTnring snvnral blowout losses. 
Though Notre Damn bnstnd No. 7 Michigan and No. 9 TPmwssnP, the Irish lost badly to l'unhw (41-lhl, USC (41-10) and Orngon StatP (:~S-21 L 
"Usually what happens is thn team that is most consistent makes a fnw morn plays that giv•~n day than tlw other team, and they win." Willingham said. "And in sonw eases, tlwy make a lot morn plays." 
Notn~ J>ame was inconsistent from play to play and from game to ganw, beginning with a sea­son-opening. 20-17 loss to BYU in Provo, Utah. 
Irish quarterback Brady Quinn complntPd 26 of 47 passes for 2h5 yards, induding a 54-yard touchdown sernnn pass to wide receiver Hlwma McKnight. Quinn later finished thn season with 2,5S6 yards passing and 17 touchdowns. Thn loss to BYU, hownver, set the torw for a rough. up-and-down seasonM 
Notre Damn reboundnd to roll owr Michigan at horne. 2S-20. Jo"r·.-shman running ba1~k Darius Walker, onn of a cou pin consis­l«mt bright spots for the tl'am, ran f(Jr 115 yards on 31 earries and two touchdowns. 

"Our guys did something sig­nificant, but it was still one win," Willingham said following the game. "We can't get ahead of oursnlves. Tomorrow we have to start all over." 
The Irish remained levelhead­nd in disposing.of Michigan State on the road the following week, 31-24. Notre Dame's defense forced six turnovers, including a 75-yard fumble return by safety Tom Zbikowski. But the defense becamo thn most s1wious arna ol' eonenrn throughout the year. 
Though the Irish then domi­nated a struggling Washington squad, 38-3, the following week Purdue quarterback Kyle Orton lit up thn Notre Dame secondary. Orton threw for :~S5 yards and four touchdowns, ineluding a 97-yarder to wide receiver Taylor Stubblel'ield, who pumpnd his list all tho way down the linld at Notre Dame Stadium. Notrn Dame gave up an average ol' 2Sl.2 yards passing per gam1~ to its 2004 opponents, including a total of 23 touchdowns through the air. 
Thn team earned wins in its next two games against Stanford and Navy, moving to a No. 24 national ranking, but on Oct. 23 Boston College humbled Notre Damn for the fourth consecutive season. Eaglos quarterback Paul Peterson throw a 30-yard touch­down pass with 54 seconds n~maining to top thn Irish, 24­23. 
Notre Damn never recovernd. 
Thn following week Willingham managed to rally the troops and steal a 17-13 win at Tennessee, but what thnn fol-lowed were a heartbreaking, 41-time ran out on Nov. 30 when 3S loss to Pittsburgh and an the University fired the head embarrassing, 41-10 blowout at coach. the hands of rival USC. Notre Dame hired New 

Pittsburgh quarterback Tyler England Patriots ofl'ensivo coor­Palko became the first quarter­dinator Charlie Weis on Doe. 12 back to throw five touchdown and hold a press eonfimmee the passos against Notre Dame. USC following day. quarterback Matt Leinart "We simply have not madn the m-Mclwd Palko;s touchdown progress on the f'inld that we total the next week, also throw­nned to make," athletic dirnetor ing for a carenr-high 400 yards. Kevin White said in an initial 
And though Notre Dame statmnnnt. played Oregon State in the Doc. Meanwhile, whnthnr players 29 Insight Bowl, Willingham's were pleased or disappointl~d with the move, the 1wrvading sense surrounding thn program called for a change of leader­ship. 
"Thorn's so much talent lwre," snnior linnbacknr I>nrnk Curry said. "Tlwre's a lot or young guys who can do a lot or great things with the nnw systnm <:om-..­ing up. And I hopn thosn guys really play like they can play. They'll bP finn." 
Contact Pat Leonard at plconard@nd.cdu 


av~~ 

Headquartery/). "Area's largest selection!" 
Wire ~ole ~Ie 
Only one mile from Campus! East Bank Emporium Restaurant Building 
121 S. Niles@ Jefferson, downtown South Bend 
232-8488. -6 

Want to Cheer, Cheer for old Notre Dame? 

This year, do it from the stands. 
Anthony Travel can help you get there! 
Hotel accommodations 
South Bend, Mishawaka and surrounding area 
Game packages including: 
Accommodations -Game tickets -Pep rally and more! 
Air and ground transportation available 
Make your reservations on-line today at 
AnthonyTravel.com 
or contad our office at 
(800) 7DOMERS (800-736·6377) 
The Ojjic:ial Travel Partner of 

the Vnh•ersi(J' ofNotre Dame ~ 
l.uf·,,,,,, .\~11det1/ Cmtt•r • ....., 
TrJve/ 
N11tre /)ume, I:V 46.H6 

Leavll'lg for the Summer? 

If your mailing address changes during the summer months/ please notify the credit union immediatelyvia fax, mail or in person of your new address. Please remember to include your signature! 
When you change your address, items such as checks and credit cords will be sent to your permanent address. 
r4. NOTRE DAME 
~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us to be better 
574/631-8222 • 800/522-6611 www.ndfcu.org 
,-~--~----­
t ._ page 36 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, May 13, 2005 
'• 
~
• Nurudeen 
continued from page 44 
bering racing his siblings during 
.. his childhood. He played soccer and basketball in addition to run­ning track in his hometown of Friendswood, Texas. Nurudeen began his track career with the 400-meter dash. "l have the stamina for it -I don't really have the speed of a 100-meter runner," Nurudeen said. "Then my coach, he decid­ed to put me in the 110 hurdles." The former runner had found a home among the hurdles. When his times started to drop, -Nurudeen decided to stick with the new event. After focusing on the hurdles, Nurudeen began to attract the attention of colleges. When the time came to select a college, he was recruited more heavily for track than basketball -motivat­ing him to work even harder in 
• track. 
"I took the opportunity, and I've been getting better ever since," he said. 
Although Nurudeen first looked at schools based on the caliber of their track programs, academics were an important factor, as well. 
"The academics at Notre Dame ... that part was a no-brainer," he said. "It's not a super-elite track team or anything, but I was talking to my dad, and he said 'It's not where you go, it's what you do where you're at."' 
Notre Dame has proved to be a great fit for Nurudeen. 
"He was an excellent high school hurdler," Piane said. "Did we expect him to win four straight Big East Championships? No. Only five 
.._ 
people have ever won four in a row ... We thought he'd run well, but there was no way to expect this." 
This year, Nurudeen took the hurdling title with a time of 
13.65 seconds, a season best by .20 seconds and placing him among the nation's Top 10 times. He also placed second in the 200-meter dash with a time of 
21.11 seconds. 
"The biggest thing that sticks out to me was getting All­American in the indoor hurdles this year," he said. "This put me where I needed to be amongst the other elite hurdlers, and it showed me I was getting better and improving and where I need­ed to be." 
In his junior season, Nurudeen set the school record in the 60­meter hurdles and won that event in the Big East champi­onships in addition to notching his third gold in the 110-meter hurdles. 
important contribution he made to the team. 
"He is an All-American indoors and probably, we hope, an All­American outdoors this spring," Piane said. "He works very hard and is a very good student." 
Another important event of this year was running in the Olympic trials. 
"It was interesting running against that caliber of hurdlers," Nurudeen said. 
For the next Olympic trials, Nurudeen plans to work harder to prepare for the event, noting that his preparation time was more limited than that of other competitors. 
Piane said the Olympic trials illustrated more of his develop­ment as an athlete. 
"He's improved pretty signifi­cantly," Piane said. "The big thing he's learned is to compete. He used to be a good hurdler ­now he's an excellent hurdler. 
He's not intimi­


However, a sig­ "He was an excellent  dated when he  
nificant change for Nurudeen was in the classroom,  high school hurdler. Did we expect him to  gets into a race, and he competed in the U.S.  
when he changed from a pre-med major to industri­al design. "I've always  win four straight Big East championships? No. Only five people have ever won four in  Olympic trials." Being a track runner has played a signifi­cant role in shap­ 
drawn. This is my number one pas­ a row.  ing Nurudeen's Notre Dame  
sion, so changing  experience.  He  
to  industrial  Joe Plane  has  worked  to  
design,  it's  Irish coach  build  relation­ 
opened so many  ships with coach- 
doors  for  me,"  es and athletes  

Nurudeen said. "I got second in a and balancing school and sports. national design competition ... "Coach-athlete relationships it's completely changed my life. can get rocky, but [my coaches] It's made things so much easier, have helped me out so much to not only in the classroom but get me where I am," Nurudeen also in track." said. "It's been really helpful and 
Piane said the student-athlete a really great relationship and combination in Nurudeen was an one I'll definitely have once I leave here." 
Aside from individual accom­plishments, what the track team has accomplished together has been important to Nurudeen. 
"A positive thing is that we're doing well, we've won a few Big East indoor and outdoor champi­onships," he said. 
He also considers his team­mates to be his closest friends. 
"Traveling with the team, get­ting to know the different guys ... it's been really interesting, train­ing with everybody," said Nurudeen. "You're not only get­ting yourself better but you're also getting each other better." 
Nurudeen said he spends most of his time with his teammates, doing normal college activities. Despite enjoying his senior year, Nurudeen remains extremely driven. 
"I definitely want to win 
nationals -that's my number one goal," he said. "It's going to be tough, but that's what I want to do." 
He is unsure of where next year will take him. 
"There are so many options for me right now," Nurudeen said. "I am not even sure -I am looking into grad school, and there are a few different jobs, but I'm not ruling out running professionally ­... I just don't want to leave any stone unturned and make sure I don't regret anything." 
He has no regrets from his time at Notre Dame, though. 
"We've had some real out­standing athletes here, and he's been one of them," said Piane. 
And hi<> career isn't over yet. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Congratulations Seniors! Come enjoy your first game as alums in Pittsburgh and cheer 
.-;i::.:· 

Charlie Weis and the Irish Onward to Victory! 

TheN 
. . . . . . : 

N [) rivalry ..tar now. ev~nts th~bu~.OQUt Jh 
Friday ( 5)
• Pep Ral"·--r­

...Q-T_,.,rna,_,,_...,. 
Saturday,t~4 (~63/05) __ ·Pirate~ v. Cubs at. 
• 
T ailgater at Carnegie Science C~Hter 

• 
NOv. Pitt@ Heinz Field 


wee ·P~Ckages can be Ptttc~a&,~~ th;rQUgh ~n~~ony;.i;:rravel. 
. . 
>).··-··-···-·····--·· dL_pittl 
Or contact Alex Saksen '97 at phally5@yahoo.com 
Friday, May 13, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 37 
Kryczalo 
continued from page 44 
not 100 percent sure Ithat I will be able tol. I'm still waiting for permission, I have to apply," she said. "It's called Optional Practical Training (OPT), and I applied for it, and I have to wait like two months." 
Since she cannot return to her native Poland while waiting for OPT permission, one option 
Kryczalo has in the interim is to continue lwr training, with the goal of' competing in a World Cup event in Las Vegas in mid-June. 
"I will try to do my best to keep on practicing, keep on going to eompetition, but we'll see," she said. 
llowever, despite blling a mem­ber of' the Polish national team, Kry(:zalo has found it diflkult to gain backing from her home country for her competitions in the United States. 
''I'm representing Poland everywhere," she said. "If I worn to be rnpresonting United States it would be tal dill'erent story, but in tal different country, when rnprnsonting Poland, they don't want so much to support me when I'm abroad, so it's really hard." 
At tho boginning of' May, she had an opportunity to compete in Poland under the full sponsor­ship of her Polish team, return­ing to her native dty of' Gdansk lilr an evont. 
"In gnneral, it was really nice travel l'or me, because it was in my home city ... and I got to sec my family and frionds, so it was vory nicn," she said. "I didn't do vnry well as I was expecting to, but it's OK, I knew it was not a good timn for it." 
New Interests? 
Whiln Kryczalo plans to eontin­un l'endng, it is dear shn would delirw hnr own schndulo. 
"Wnll, I still have to lind some things, instead of fnndng, I'm roally excited about that, because I have bmm practicing l'or 12 years, so l'or those 12 ynars I didn't have time l'or othnr things in my lil'e," slw said. 
A l'ew things she will try to do nwre of' will certainly indude her ernative artistic (~ndeavors, a pursuit lilr which hnr availability has not always matched her pas­sion. 
"I was always interostod in art, and I likn to paint and write," she said. "I was painting more beforo -l'endng kind of took it away l'rom mn -but with writing, I'm still writing. I used to write poems, some stories. I'm still doing this; maybe I will have mom time for it." 
Additionally, Kryezalo may consider submitting hnr work, espedally her writing, into the public sphere. 
"I tried; my teacher one time sent one of my poems, in Poland," slw said. 
"It was long ago, for the con­test, and I got not the first IplaceI award but an award in Poland. I will try to do that." 
Ultimately, Kryezalo -who is fluent in English and Polish, con­versant in Spanish and taking c;erman elassns -aspires to traw~l thn globn and work a'i an intnrprntnr after going to !,tradu­atn school. 
"I love languages I would
000 

like to have tal nice job, buts that's why I also want to be intcr­pn~h~r/translator because I don't want to have lanl everyday job," sho said. 
"I would like to travel some­times and do my stull', with kind of more free time." Looking Back 
Although she is roady to move on to the next phase of her life, 
Kryczalo defmitely feels like she 
is leaving a part of herself behind 
as she leaves Notre Dame and 
the team she has helped lead the 
past four years. 
"I feel like my life will change 
totally. Here I would say [lifeI
00. 
was very trouble-less. I was just concentrating to study and to fence and to meet new people and enjoy my life." 
Many of her memories center around the NCAA finals, an event where she had great success in her career. She won the NCAA individual title in 2002, 2003 and 2004 before finishing as the run­ner-up this past season. She was also an integral part of two national championship teams, in 2003 and 2005. 
"Each year, all my practices, the goal was NCAA champi­onships, so I remember each time we worn fencing," she said. 
Each year, she says, the experi­ence was a little difl'erent. 
"The first time, I didn't know what to expeet, I was really, real­ly stressed out because I wanted to show what I can do, and I did­n't know, actually, what I can do," she said. "I know that the lbrmat is hard, and I was really, really prepared, and it really wont well for me. I just remem­ber I was really, really happy when I linally won. There was a lot of joy." 
The next three years. the tour­nament was different, as she entered as the defending cham­pion and favorite. 
"I was defending my title, so I was more stressed out, but on the other side, I knew more what to expect," she said. "The second year when we won a'i a team, it was the first time I won with my team, so we could share this joy, and I was double champion, which was even cooler." 
Saying Goodbye 
By her final season, the team asped had !,trown to be an even greater part of her identity in NCAA fencing, and it was Kryczalo's performance in her final round-robin bout that dinchnd the title for the Irish. 
"The three first years, its more individual, even the team tourna­ment. I morn remember individ­ual. The last year, I remember the team winning, because it was such a groat experience for me when I had my last my bout and everybody jumped at me after that," she said. "I didn't even expect that we lwouldl win, because we were losing a lot after two days. And then I saw the joy in our coaches, who I appreciatn so much and like so mueh, and I know they put so much efl'ort into this It was
000 

really a great l'neling. I had tears in my eyes. It was so much sweeter; it took away this bitter­ness that I didn't win lthe indi­vidual titlnl." 
Ultimately, it is the team moments and teammates that she will miss most as she begins to move on. 
"All the people on my team I really like in one or the other way ... All of them arc very, very nke and interesting people," she said. "It's hard to find such a wide circle of friends as easy as I f{JUnd here." 
She feels perhaps her closest bond with fellow senior foilist Andrea Ament especially, who was a four-time All-American along with Kryezalo, twice falling to her in the finals. 
"She was really an amazing teammate, and because I was so lueky to have sueh good results, somehow I think she's sometimes getting lost in this," she said. "She was kind of the spirit of our team, too, and really a good friend as well, so I definitely would like to say I will miss her, bncause I will never lind such a good teammate." 
She will also be saddened walking away from her two coaches, Janusz Bednarski and Zoltan Dudas, who gave her a much different type of coaching than she received in Poland. 
"I really prefer the way I was coached in ND, when I eould talk with coaches and they were understanding. They really, real­ly were with me, so when I was losing, they were consoling me. They were never angry; they were standing on my side," she said. "Both of them are not only concerned about fencing, they are also interested in our lives and what we are doing after Ifencing]." 
No matter where she goes, a part of Kryczalo will always be home in Poland. 
"I have kind of a double life now, and my life in Poland is los­ing because I'm staying here more or the time, so it hurl'> me," she said. 
At the same time, Kryczalo, a psychology major, relishes the opportunity to meet new people as she begins her post-student life in the United States. 
"I like to meet new people. I think they can bring a lot of new life, you can learn from them," she said. "I always think that people create places for me. That's why, when people are say­ing some places are boring, I always say, 'Yeah, but its not about the place, il'i just about the people,' so if you have good peo­ple there, then it's the best place." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
The University of Notre Dame's 
Science, Technology Program  & Values  
in the  
College  of Arts  &  Letters  

~pleased to announce thefollowing graduating students for the 
Class of 2005 
Brin T. Anderson Michael B. J(oehler J(ara A. Brogan Christopher P. Marett Jacqueline M. Dammann Mariah D. Marsh Brian D. Donnelly Rachel A. Ramos Michael Gibek Chad D. Short Jennifer L. Jeffers Andrew B. Szwak Brian E. J(adera John B. Waldron John W. J(aveney 
0' 

The Men of 
O,Neill Fa"'ily Hall 
wish their brothers in the 
Class of 2005 
Good Luck and God's Blessings! 
Come back and visit. You will always be in "The Mob" and always 
Welcome Home 
to O'Neill! 
0' 

page 38 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, May 13, 2005 

Title 
continued from page 44 
helped her develop into a more complete golfer. 
"!My improvement] has a lot to do with Mark and his join­ing of the team," Simmerman said. 
"He has a lot of confidence in me. He can tell me what I'm doing with my hands, at what point I am swinging. He knows my game probably bet­ter than I do." 
Under his tutelage, Simmerman has continued to drop strokes from her score­card and post low rounds. 
She finished her junior spring with an 82.5 scoring average and was set to defend her title at the national cham­pionships in Green Lake, Wise. After a three-day total of 238 (78-82-78) left her within striking distance of the lead, Simmerman struggled on the final day of the event, but still managed to tie for twelfth place. 

But that didn't meet Simmerman's own expecta­tions. 
"I was disappointed with a twelfth-place finish, but taking twelfth place at the national championships isn't all that bad," she said. 
"I had more planned for myself -I thought I could have done better." 
Nevertheless, her four­round total of 328 led the Belles to an eighth-place fin­ish in the team competition. That goes a long way, even if it falls short of expectations of a national title. 
"Bringing Saint Mary's name up in the rankings lis impor­tant to me]," she said. 
That she has done, as she became the first Belles golfer to earn All-MIAA honors in four consecutive years by fin­ishing second in this year's scoring average race. 
Even though she's only one spot higher than she was as a freshman on the conference list, the drastically-improved quality of golfers has made her climb and the ascension of Saint Mary's all the more evi­dent. 
The team is averaging scores in the double-digits lower than it did when she first arrived. Additionally notewrothy, her scoring aver­age alone this year is more than eight strokes improved from her stand-out freshman season. 
"Just to see how much we've improved and how much I've been a part of it means a lot to me," she said. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

SMC GOLF 
Belles to challenge 
for national awards 
Senior captains lead team to title rounds 
By ANNA FRICANO Sports Writer 
for the third year in a row, Saint Mary's has earned one of ten bids to compete in the NCAA Division Ill Championships this week in North Carolina. Led by seniors Stefanie Simmerman, Julia Adams and captain Chrissy Dunham, the team has recently completed another highly-suc­cessful season, which helped to earn them a fourth place rank­ing, the highest seed the Belles have ever achieved in the tour­nament. 
Coach Mark Hamilton and his team hope that this will propel the Belles to their first-ever national title. 

For Simmerman, Adams and Dunham, this week will be their third and last attempt to bring home the national title. All three women have been with the team throughout their time at Saint Mary's and have traveled to the two previous NCAA tournaments with the team. Simmerman won the individual title in the 2003 tournament and helped the team to a fourth place overall finish, the highest that Saint Mary's has placed in the nation­al tournament. 
The Belles had just as success­ful a season in the MIAA last fall, again capturing the conference title. The team placed first in three out of four conference tournaments in the fall, coming in second to Olivet only once. At the conference championship in early October, Adams came in first place, earning the 2004 conference medal. 
Adams, Simmerman and Dunham were all named all­MIAA First Team. Juniors Megan Mattia and Nicole Bellino also gave strong showings for Saint Mary's, earning second­team honors within the confer­ence. 
The national tournament will be one last opportunity for Saint Mary's to beat DePauw this sea­son, who have eluded the Belles so far this spring. DePauw rep­resents Region 2 at the tourna­ment along with the Belles. Saint Mary's would also like to knock Methodist, who is hosting the event, out of their top spot. Last year, Methodist won their sev­enth consecutive NCAA tourna­ment, finishing 2 strokes ahead of Mary Hardin-Baylor, who will represent Region 5 again in this year's championship. DePauw came in at third place in the tournament last year and Wisconsin-Oshkosh finished fourth. Saint Mary's, who fin­ished eighth in last year's meet, will have to face all of these teams again this week in order to capture the title. 
In the national rankings Saint Mary's remains in third place, behind DePauw and Hardin­Baylor. 
The NCAA Championship began Tuesday and concludes today. 
Contact Anna Fircano at africaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
NFL DRAFr 

Tuck, Collins among 10 Irish players signed by pros 
Tuck's third-round selection leads Irish signees in the NFL 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
It is no secret that Justin Tuck and Jerome Collins will soon be suiting up on Sundays, as the two Irish seniors were picked in last month's NFL Draft. 
However, several other Notre Dame players have extended their football careers as well, being signed by various teams over the last couple of weeks. 
Justin Tuck was taken in the third round of the NFL Draft on April 23 by the New York Giants with the 74th pick overall. 
Tuck was expected to be a late first or second round pick, but slipped into the early third round. The Giants looked at Tuck in the second round, but ultimately decided to go with LSU corner­back Corey Webster. 
Tuck was coming off an injury, and his statistics as a senior were reflective of that -making him a later pick than his talent war­rants, according to Giants coach Tom Coughlin. 
"Probably because of his senior year when he was coming off the injury, [Tuck was a late pick]," Coughlin said to Michael Eisen of giants.com. "He had flashed in games. He probably didn't have the kind of year that he normally would have had. He had 13 112 sacks as a third-year player and then came into this year with, I believe, [six] sacks.... But we are glad it happened and worked out that way." 

Tuck is motivated to show that teams made a mistake by not selecting him earlier. 
"Every coach I came in contact with here at the Giants told me 'You have to play with a chip on your shoulder,' and that's what I plan on doing,'' Tuck told Eisen. 
Collins, a tight end for the Irish who had been moved around a lot during his collegiate career, found a home when St. Louis drafted him in the sixth round with the 144th pick. 
Collins is already listed on the St. Louis Rams Web site as being the third string tight end behind Brandon Manumaleuna and Roland Williams -meaning he is slated to be used in goal line situ­ations. 
Listed as both a tight end and an outside linebacker on the St. Louis Rams Web site, the Rams are hoping that his blocking abili­ty and special teams play will make him a quality addition to their roster. 
Other than the two draft picks, Irish linebacker Mike Goolsby, running back Ryan Grant, wide receiver Carlyle Holiday, defensive back Carlos Campbell, defensive back Dwight Ellick, tight end Billy 

CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer Justin Tuck, a third-round draft pick for the New York Giants, sacks Stanford quarterback Trent Edwards on Oct. 9. 
Palmer, linebacker Derek Curry and defensive tackle Greg Pauly were picked up by NFL teams. 
Goolsby was signed by the Dallas Cowboys, Grant by the New York Giants, Holiday by the Arizona Cardinals, Campbell by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, Ellick by the New Orleans Saints, Palmer by the Washington Redskins, Curry by the Miami Dolphins and Pauly by the Chicago Bears. 
What the Cardinals will do with Holiday should be interesting to monitor. Initially a quarterback at Notre Dame, Holiday was moved to wide receiver and saw signifi­cant time as a punt returner in his senior season. 
Ryan Grant will be joining a New York Giants team that released Heisman Trophy winner Ron Dayne this off-season. He will battle for playing time behind starter Tiki Barber and second­string back Mike Cloud, with run­ning backs Derrick Ward and rookies Brandon Jacobs and Mike Jemison. 
Ellick will be joining a New Orleans defense that has been among the worst in the league for the last few seasons. Last season, the Saints gave up 243 yards a game in the air and 25.3 points per game -and had the worst ranked overall defense in the league. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 

FouR YEARS IN REviEW 
page 39 Friday, May 13, 2005 
The Top 10 Observer sports stories from the 2001-2005 academic years 
~ ~:t •J ' -.to ;.. ",If ,,., •,..!,. ~ I 
;, 

2 
Davie axed; leads 
to coaching fiasco 
.....,... ­
IIIC•J:!H• 
OB~ERVER 
Davie Fired 


·····­

~. 
.~~~~~ 

5 
Irish go to CWS, 
first trip since '57 
lRISII lNSlDl:R 
Rclii.Cbiug ur:ow h~tah~ 

;::__&::$, 


Arter Notre Damn lir·od Bob Davie, tho football program was taken on a rollereoaster ride. Ceorge O'Leary was introdueed at a Doe. 9 press conference, but it took only livn days to catch him lying on his resume. Stanford lwad eoach Tyronn Willingham was then hired on .Jan. 1, 2002 rnplae­ing O'Lnary. 
December 2001 
It took an improba­ble vietory ovnr No. 1 Florida State at Tallahassee, but the Irish found a way to reaeh their first College World Series sinee 1957. 
Thn tnam played wnll in Omaha, boat­ing Hice on a walk-oil' home run and losing twiee to a tough Stanford team. They also won 50 gamns, a nnw team rncord. 
June 15-18, 2002 
Irish move in different direction: Willingham fired, Weis hired 
The news stunned a grey Notre Dame eampus on tho morning of Nov. 30, as head football coaeh Tyrone Willingham was fired after three seasons with the Irish. Willingham started 8-0 but finished his tenure at Notre Dame with a 21-15 rneord and throe thirty-one point losses to USC. Thore was a large outcry in the 


6 
Brey-coached Irish find Sweet success 
SI'ORTS 
Jrls.b "K"Ul1Ll~K4lllil.:.hmnp.iun::hip iiii"ii~ ~-:;.;,; 
;~:~~ ~~~ 
'"!h..n·d hi,.la M>llt lilini t'.:~,;; 


As the five seed in the West Hegional, Mike Brey led the men's basketball team to the Sweet 16 for the first time since 1987. 
Brey took over as head coach in 2000 and has steadily improved tho basket­ball program. Under his ~uidanen, his teams qualified for three straight NCAA Tourneys. 
March 2003 

9 Hockey earns first ever NCAA bid
8 
Coaches exit SMC in revolving door 

A'i the No. 4 seed in
SPbirrs 
the Grand Hapids -Can Cindt•rella skate? 
rnginal, thn Irish advanend to tho NCM tournament for the
!'A 
lirst limo in the pro­gram's 3(J-yP.ar histo­ry. 
Coach Davo Poulin's team playnd a diiTirult selwdute during tho regular SPason to narn tlw at-largo bid, including a win OVl11" tlwn-No. l Boston Collngo. 
March 2003 November-December, 2004 

media and on campus about the removal of Willingham having racial implications. 
After rumors that Irish athletic diroetor Knvin White was elose to hiring Utah eoach Urban Meyer, Meyer spurned Notre Dame for Florida-lead­ing to the eventual hiring of New England Patriots' o!Tensive coordinator, and 
four-time Super Bowl win­ner, Charlie Weis on Dec. 
14. Wnis has already brought a nnw spark of intensity to the football program, even though he has not coached a gamn yet. Weis has also settled critieisms that he might not be abln t.o recruit 
players  by  signing  six  
recruits alrnady for  tho  
elass of 2009.  


SPORTS ~::· 
.i ..ll 

·~·,.. !,"(.< -~j • •••• • -· •••• l'" 
In a two and a half month period, three Saint Mar·y's coaches rnsigrwd. 
Thn athlntie depart­ment, which could barely pay its head coaclws $6,000 a ynar. wns unabln to attract and n1tain quality coarhns. Bobby .Johnson . .John c;1uwiT and Thnrnsa l'nkarnk all lPil Saint Mary's during the spring. 
Spring 2002 
4 
Willingham leads Return to Glory 

In his l'i r s t y11 a r 
NSID[R
·­
hlmah~~<k (lup 
as hnad coach, Tyronn Willingham led the Irish to an 8-0 start. II is I 0 wins wt1n1 tlw most by a first-ynar Notn1 Dame foot­ball roach. 
The season's t.op wins included a dnfeat of No. 6 Mkhigan at Notre Dame Stadium and a win at No. 11 Florida State. 
Fa/12002 


-
7 

Fencers champs 
twice in three years 

In 2003, Notre Dame won its first 
National Champion­

National cham~ions ~~~:!~~~:: ~~~· 
In~~ ~Uf"'-'fr.JHt h:MIAII• t;'ill lmlllt l1Ut , ~ 
-


ship sineo 1994 after linishing second or third nvery year sinee thnn. 
In 2005. tlwy pro­vnd victorious again, winning their second lith Sincn 2002, Irish fencers have won individual national titl1~s. with s11nior foilist Alirja Kryrzalo winning tlm~n. 
March 20, 2005 

Women's golf 
10 

makesNCAAs 

For t.he lirst tinw in
SroRTS 
t.lw I (J-year history of 

lri'lh tU•I
Not so friendly cnnfines 
tlw program. tlw

hundltn..:, 
.,,,,;,;.;.r~•.,.u."' Jo:>w"'<~r···lrto!4~·"''"·-~"' 

n'lt•\wll 
lr·ish advanc11 to tlw NCAA toumanwnt. 
Tho Irish l'lle11ivnd tlw No. 19 snnd at thn CPntral HPgional at Illinois Stall' hy win­ning a school-wrord four tour namP nts during tlw rngular snason, inrluding tlwir sncond rons11Cll­tivl~ Big East <:ha111 pionship. 
April 26,2004 
page 40 · 

The Observer + SPORTS Friday, May 13, 2005 
Notre Dame: 
Women's cross country team finishes fourth in NCAA championships, men's 
Observer Staff Report 
Men's soccer 
Despite an early exit from the NCAA Tournament, the Irish saw success on team and indi­vidual levels this season. 
"The big thing this year was winning the Big East regular­season title for the lirst time," coach Bobby Clark said. "I think that was a tremendous accom­plishment because it was one of the toughest soccer conferences in the country." 
The Irish clinched the league title against Rutgers with one game to go in conference play. 
Notre Dame was eliminated on penalty kicks by Seton Hall in an 8-7 Big East tournament quarterfinal loss. It received a No. 5 seed in the NCAA Tournament but was upset by Ohio State, 2-1, in a hotly-con­tested second-round game and finished the season with a final record of 13-3-3. 
Individually, Chris Sawyer was named Big East Goalkeeper of the Year, and Jack Stewart was the conference's Defender of the Year. First-team acco­lades went to Kevin Goldthwaite, while Clark and his fellow coaches were named Coaching Staff of the Year. 
Sawyer was named an All­American, and Stewart and Goldthwaite were semi-finalists for the IIermann Trophy, colle­giate soccer's most prestigious award. 
Men's cross-country 
What started out as a great year for the Irish was tainted slightly by an 11th place finish in the NCAA championships, when they were No. 5 national­ly heading into the meet. However, the Irish still had a lot to be proud of at season's end. 

Notre Dame ran well all year as Kurt Benninger, Tim Moore, Kaleb Van Ort and Sean O'Donnell led a group that was successful all season. 
Notre Dame won the National Catholic Championship on Sept. 19 and took the Big East Championship on Oct. 29. 
The Irish also compiled a slew of second-place finishes in the Notre Dame Invitational, the Pre-National Championships and NCAA Great Lakes Regional. 
The squad also received an award on March 8 by the USCC­CA for their academic perform­ance, finishing with one of the top team GPAs in the country. 
Women's cross-country 
The Notre Dame women per­formed well all season and cul­minated the year with a fourth­place finish in the NCAA Championships. 
Stephanie Madia was the first Irish runner to cross the finish line in that race, finishing 25th overall with a time of 20:58. 
Notre Dame's success started early in the season. 
After winning the National Catholic Championship at Notre Dame, the Irish went on to fin­ish second in the Pre-National Championship, the Big East Championship and the NCAA Great Lakes Hegional. 

Notre Dame also took third in the Notre Dame Invitational. 
Madia led the Irish all year, providing consistency and excellence all season. Sunni Olding came into her own with an impressive first season, often running with Madia in order to make each other better. 
Kerry Meagher, Molly Huddle and Lauren King also were suc­cessful for the Irish -con­tributing all season towards the team's success. 
Women's golf 
The Irish turned in a mostly successful 2004-05 campaign, winning four tournaments. The team faltered down the stretch, however, placing third in the Big East and finishing 18th out of 21 in the NCAA central regional. 
Katie Brophy led the Irish all season, finishing with a team­low 78.00 scoring average, good enough for second in Notre Dame history. 
Noriko Nakazaki also played well for coach Debby King this year. Known for her consisten­cy, Nakazaki has shot under 76 in 22 of her 36 career rounds. 
Stacy Brown was the most accurate player for the Irish this season, finishing lOth in the nation with an 88.7 fair­ways-hit percentage. 
Jane Lee burst onto the scene in her freshman year, shooting a two-under-par 70 at the St. Croix Collegiate Classic in the 
U.S. Virgin Islands and appear­ing regularly in the Irish lineup. 
The season was rolling along well for Notre Dame until the Big East Championships April 23 and 24, when inclement weather and bad luck relegated the heavily-favored Irish to third place. 
The disappointment contin­ued in Lubbock, Texas at the 
NCAA Central Regionals, where the Irish collapsed on day two and finished third from last -10 places out of advancing to the NCAA finals. 
Men's swimming 
The No. 22 Irish were nothing short of impressive this season, as the team won its first Big East Championship and sent two individuals to the NCAA Championships. 
Sam Stoner finished 28th in the three-meter diving competi­tion and 17th in the one-meter portion in the NCAA Zone C Diving Championships as the first freshman to take part in the competition since 2000. 
Tim Kegelman also represent­ed the Irish in the NCAA Championships, placing 39th in the 200-yard individual medley and 37th in the 200-yard but­terfly. He is the first Notre Dame swimmer ever to receive an invitation to the national meet. 
The Irish recorded a 10-2 record in dual meets, register­ing their only losses to No. 14 Northwestern and No. 22 Brigham Young. 
Notre Dame faced such intim­idating opponents with poise and confidence as the team upset No. 17 Pittsburgh, 155­145, in one of its more impres­sive wins of the season on Nov. 12. 
Later in the year, the Irish knocked off the eight-time defending Big East champion Panthers once again with a 275-point victory in the confer­ence meet. 
Most of the team will return to competition next year, with the exception of seniors captain Matt Bertke, Frank Krakowski, David Moisan and Drew Pittman. 
Women's swimming 
Another year, another Big East Championship. 
For the ninth consecutive sea­son, the Irish won the confer­ence championship as they picked up their sixth top-25 fin­ish during the nine-year stretch and recorded the third-highest point total in program history at the NCAA Championships in West Lafayette, Ind. 
Compiling a 6-3 dual record, the Irish headed into the Big East meet as the favorite. 
Tied with Pittsburgh at 72 points apiece at the end of the first day, the Irish pulled away during the second day of com­petition, winning three of five events en route to a 53-point advantage over the second­place Panthers. Notre Dame locked up first place on the third and final day of the cham­pionships, winning three events for a three-day total of 503 points; Pittsburgh and Rutgers tied for second with 399 points each. 
Sophomore Katie Carroll and senior Meghan Perry-Eaton paced the Irish at the NCAA Championships. 
Carroll took home All­American honors for her sixth­place finish in the 400-yard individual medley at the nation­al meet while Perry-Eaton was also named an All-American for her fifth-place finish off the onn-meter board. 
The Irish will be under new leadership next season. Head 

Sept. 11 -Coming off an Nov. 23 -Irish men's soccer Jan. 12-Three Irish soccer playersopening~day loss to Brigham falls to Ohio State 2-1 in an upset are drafted in the first two rounds ofYoung, Notre Dame football in the second round of the the annual MLS draft. Midfielder Jack rebounds to upset No.7 NCAA tournament. The Irish Stewart was the first Irish player selected, 
i .,., ( "'

Michigan, 28-20. " finish the year 13-3-3. 
J_ ;;..:,., \ -~ •, at No.. 10 by the Chicago Fire. 
;;; ~~~~ ~ ", 

Dec. 4 -Irish women's volleyball 
.~ ~ 
I falls to Wisconsin in straight sets 
;

.... 
v:fE ,, 

Jan. 29-The Notre Dame men's tennis 
,~~"-'~~ 
in the second roundof the NCAA 
team picks up its 1,000th victory in program Nov. 2 -Irish golfer Cole Isban finishes tournament. 
history with a 5-2 victory over No. 18 North
second at the competitive Prestige tournament Dec. 7 -Men's golf head coach Carolina. 
at the PGA West golf course in La Quinta, Calif. JohnJasinski resigns for personal reasons after a disappointing fall in
Nov. 21 ~ Notre Dame women's Feb. 8 -Men's basketball hands Boston his third year with the prograrp.. 
volleyball beats Pittsburgh in straight College their first loss of the season after sets to capture the Big East 
20 straight victories, 68-65. Colin Falls 
Dec. 14-Irish goalie Chris Championship. The Irish finish the scores 23 to lead the Irish. 
Sawyer earns first-team All­regular season 20-8. 
American honors. 
2004 

Nov. 22 .:. The Irish cross-country squads Dec. 12-After a "nationwide 
Feb. 20 -Women's swimming wins compete at the National Championships search," Notre Dame names 

its ninth consecutive Big East in Terra Haute, Ind. The women capture New England Patriots' 
Championship. Coach Bailey Weather fourth place in the nation, led by Stephanie offensive coordinator 
wins his sixth Big East Coach of the Madia's 23rd place individual finish. Themen Charlie Weis as its 28th 
Year award. come in a disappointing 11th. head football coach. Feb. 5 -Irish sprinter 
Nov. 17 -Jacqueline Batteast 
Dec. 5 -Notre Dame women's 
Kurt Benninger posts a scores 17 points to lead the 
soccer captures its second national 
sub four-minute mile No. 11 Irish women's basketball 
title in the past ten years, beating 
time of 3:58.75 at the team to a 76-65 upset win over 
UCLA in penalty kicks. 
indoor Meyo No. 6 Duke in the semifmals of Invitational.
the Preseason Women's NIT. 
Nov. 30 -Three days after the Irish lost 
Oct. 23 -Boston College to USC by 31 points for the third straight Jan. 28-Jim Kubinski, Duke's assistant men's and beats Notre Dame in football, year, athletic director Kevin \'Vhite announces women's golf coach, is named Notre Dame men's 24-23, for the Eagles' fourth the school has terminated its contract with golf head coach after a two-month search to fill the 
straight victory over the Irish. head football coach Tyrone Willingham. vacancy. 
GRAHAM EBETSCH!The Observer 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
PriJay, May 13, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 41 
Year in Review 
lacrosse struggles, and volleyball draws the No. 17 attendance in the country ­
coaeh Bailey Wnathnrs rnsi){rwd al'tnr tnn ynars at the hPlm of' Notrn Dame women's swimmin){. Weathers was nanwd Bi){ l•:ast Coach of' tho Ynar six limns durin){ his tnnurn at Not.rn Damn. I lis rnplar.emnnt is ynt to lw namnd. 
Volleyball 
Notrn Damn ranknd No. ·17 nationally in honw attendance this season -and with good rnason. 
Tho Irish f'inished the year with their eighth Big East Tournament title, an invitation to tlw NCAA tournament and a 21-1) record after a season of' matches that kept fans on the ndgt~s of their snats. 
Thn year was r.harar.terizcd by ups and downs as the team struggled in its earliest games with establishing a r.onsistnnt oli'nnse. 
But with thei~ upset of No. 14 Utah Od. 20. their triumph over Pittsburgh for the Big East Championship Nov. 21 (,\nd the first ever win over Long Bear.h State on Nov. 2R, the Irish dornonstrated just how much potnntial they possessed. 
Thn tnam 's hard work also narnml some of its mmnbnrs the prnisn of volleyball ofricials. Froshrnan Adrianna Stasiuk was named Big East Hookie of tlw W(wk two weeks in a row. .Junior Laurnn Brewster also narned the titles of Big East l'laynr of the Wnek award on two snparatn occasions. Junior libmo Mng llnnir.an also won thn Big East Player of the Wnnk award, only tho second libnro to nvnr rnceivn the honor. 
Brnwstnr, snnior Emily 
Loomis and junior Lauren Knlbley also gained All-Big East honors for tho third year. Following the Big East Tournamnnt, Brnwstcr was named tournament MVP and AVCA All-Northeast Hegion, with Loomis and Kelbley also gaining honorable mnntion all­region. Brnwster was named AVCA Third-Team All­Arnnriean. 
Funled by the confidence they gained with thnir impressive vietories and ar.eolades, the Irish took on the NCAA Championships. lleniean led the Irish in their opening match against Valparaiso with a tour­nament-rel~ord 27 digs for a 30­21, 20-30, 30-28, 30-20 victory. Despite their promising start, Notre Dame fell to 14th-seeded Wisr.onsin 36-34, 30-16, 30-16. 
The Irish return everyone but threo seniors -Knlly Corbett, Loomis and Leah Nedderman ­next season. 
Men's tennis 
Five underdassmen helped buoy a men's tennis squad fae­ing plenty of challenges this year. But the regular season results wern indicative of any­thing but youthful missteps. 
Finishing the season with their second consecutive and fifth overall Big East Championship, the Irish earned an automatie bid to the NCAA tournament. 
As they prepare for their first round match against No. :B Louisville, they'll have a r.hance to draw from plenty or experi­ence against nationally-ranked opponents. Over the course of the rngular season, they faced three top-ten foes in No. 8 Duke, No. 5 Illinois and No. 2 Virginia, r.oming within a single match vietory or upsetting the Cavaliers.· 
The Irish were lnd by senior eo-captain Brent IJ'Amir.o, who was named Most Outstanding Performer at the Big East Championships. 
Irish coach Bobby Bayliss also earned his lif'th Big East Coach of the Year acr.olade in a season that also featured the pro­gram's 1,OOOth career victory, becoming just the sixth Division I sehoul to rear.h that plateau. 
The Irish finished the season ranked No. 32 in the Intercollegiate Tennis Association national rankings, peaking at No. 16 on March 15. 
Women's tennis 
Equipped with a newfound sense of confidence following their Big East victory, the Irish are looking to impress at the NCAA Championships. 
No. 23 Notre Dame's 4-0 win over Syraeuse at the Big East Championships on April 23 ser.ured the team an automatic bid in the NCAA competition. The team (14-9) will travel to Northwestern's campus to take on its first opponent, No. 46 Iowa, today in the tournament's first round. 
In addition, sophomores Catrina and Christian Thompson each earned individ­ual invitations to the NCAA Championships May 23-28. Hanked No. 44, Catrina will first take the courts to eompete in the singles tournament before teaming up with Christian as the other half of the No. 6 dou­hies team. 
The team conditioned itself' with tough competitors throughout the season in prepa­ration for the post-season. Al'tnr nearly upsetting No. 5 Duke, 4­3, and No. 9 North Carolina, 4­3, narlier in the snason, Notrn Dame's rigorous sehndule paid off, as the team bestnd No. 1 6 William and Mary 4-:~ on April 9. 
Notre Dame will return all of its starters, with the exception of senior r.aptain Sarah Jane Connelly. 
Men's lacrosse 
Despite being ranked as high as No. 10 at the beginning of the season, Notre Dame strug­gled down the streteh and missed out on its goal of rear.h­ing the NCAA Tournament. 
The Irish finished the season 7-4 overall and 3-2 in the Great Western Lacrosse League but were disappointed after starting the year 5-1 with wins over then No. 21 Penn State, then­No. 10 North Carolina and then-No. 13 Hofstra. 
The downturn began with a 10-9 loss at Dartmouth. The Big Green scored two goals in the final three minutes to give the Irish their first of three losses in the final five games. 
The defeat at Dartmouth was followed by a 9-6 home loss to fellow GWLL member Denver. 
The season ended on a good note with a 16-5 win at Ohio State. Freshman goalie Joey Kemp totaled 16 saves against the Buekeyes, solidifying his role as the top freshman on the team. 
Attackman Pat Walsh led the Irish in points and assists and was nominated for tho Tewaaraton Trophy, awardnd t.o the country's top playor. Walsh and D.J. Driscoll both were invited to try out f'or thn 200h US National Tnam at. thn end of' thn snason. 
Women's lacrosse 
With the wnight of a program­record 10-0 start to the 2004 campaign squarely on their shoulders, thn Irish struggled to meet expectations in 2005, eompiling a 3-11 overall rneord (1-4 in Big East). including a five-game losing streak. 
The Irish kir.ked off the sea­son on the right foot, knocking ofT Ohio 16-1 0 on Feb. 27. 
From thern, hownver, it was almost all downhill. 
Plagued by slow starts that ol'ten lef't the Irish in large deficits by halftime, Notre Dame dropped its next four games to Northwestern, Cornell, Vand-erbilt and .James Madison, before getting baek in the win column with an 1R-R home victory over California. 
Losses to a pair of confnrnnee rivals in Boston College -thn seeond overtime loss of the sea­son for the Irish -and Conneetieut followed the vir.to­ry, jeopardizing the squad's conference hopes. 
The Irish knoeked ofT Hutgers in their next game for their last victory of the season. Since defeating tlw Scarlet Knights, 12-9, at Moose Krause Stadium at the beginning of' April, Notm Dame dropped six straight to Duke, Stanford, Georgetown, Johns Hopkins, Syraeuso and Ohio State to nnd tho ynar. 
-

March 20 -Fencing wins its second national May 5 -Catrina and Christian Thompson earn invitations 
championship in three years, The women post to the NCAA Championships as a doubles team. The duo 
a 44-10 record and close a 24-point gap with spent much of the year as the No. 1 ranked doubles t<..>am in 
Ohio State on the final day of competition the country. Catrina also earns an invitation to compete individually. 
to win, 173-171. April 23-Notre Dame's Warren Golf 
Course hosts the men's and women's 
Big East Championship. The men defend 
March 11-12 -Irish hockey finishes 
their crown with a five-stroke victory, while 
seasonon 19 game winless streak, May 10 -Four members of the
the women finish in third place. getting swept by Michigan in a three game Irish women's lacrosse team selected
April 23 -The Irish men's tennis series in the first round of the CCI-lA playoffs. to All-Big East teams. Crysti Foote 
team repeats as Big East champions, is a tinanimous first-team selection. 
March 1 -Notre Dame men's golf beating Rutgers 7-0. wins its first tournament of the spring, March 29 -Women's swimming coach May 7 -Notre Dame softball captures capturing the Nokia Sugar Bowl/Tulane Bailey Weathers resigns after ten seasons its tenth consecutive Big East title. The team Invitational in a playoff. Jim Kubinski and nine Big East Championships. The has won· every conference championship since becomes the Irish's first golf coach to Irish posted an 86-20 record in dual meets joining the league. 
win his inaugural event since 1961. during his career. 
Feb. 20 -Men's swimming wins its first ever Big East Championship,  March 21 -Women's basketball upset by Arizona State, 70-61, in the second  May 6 -Jeff Jackson hired as hockey coach to replaced Dave Poulin. Jackson  2005  
scoring a meet record 902.5 points  round of the NCAA tournament. The  had been an assistant coach with the  
and topping second place Pittsburgh  Irish finish the season with a 27-6 record.  New York Islanders.  
hy 275.  April12-Notre Dame pitcher 1bm Thornton  May 8-Irish sprinter Selim Nurudeen  

earns his third career Big East pitcher-of-the-week award wins his fourth consecutive Big East 
March 9 -Men's basketball is upset by 
· in the 1H)-meter hurdles. 
April 15 -Dave Poulin resigns as hockey
No. 11 seed Rutgers in the first round 
coach just a year after leading the program 
of the Big East Semifinals, 72-65. The loss 
to its first appearance in the NCAA tournament.
effectively ends the team's quest for an at­
The Irish finished the 2004-2005 season with a
large bid to the NCAA tournament. 
5-27-6 record. 
March 15 -Relegated to the NIT after 
April 25 -Pat Walsh is one of 16 players 
losing to Rutgers, men's basketball ends 
nominated for the Tewaarton Trophy, 
its season with a 78-73 first round loss to 
recognizing the nation's best rriale lacrosse 


May 8-Irish sprinter Maryann Erigha 
lloly Cross in front of a sparse Joyce 
player. It is his second year in a row being 
· wins the Big East championship in the
Center crowd. 
nominated for the award. 

100 meters with a time of 1 1 .69 seconds. 
page 42 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, May 13, 2005 
Saint Mary's Year in Sports 
-
Belles achieve team, individual success in golf; other sports work to rebuild for future 
Observer staff report 
Cross-country 

Saint Mary's closed out the 2004 season with a 
sixth-place finish in the MIAA conference, tying 
the program's highest finish in 2003. 
Although they had a chance to climb to fourth at the end of the season, the Belles fell short in their bid. The team only had two conference competitions in which to perform, but sickness and injury seemed to be in their way during the most critical times. Unfortunately, Saint Mary's was not able to beat Kalamazoo and Alma dur­ing the championship meet in order to secure the fourth spot. 
The Belles will graduate six seniors this week­end from their 24-member team: Elizabeth Commers, Sarah Dunn, Ashley LaLonde, Aubrey Szanzy, Kristen Zaininger and Risa Zander. Commers and Zander were named captains for the 2004 season. 
The outlook for the team is positive for the coming years, with several freshmen and sopho­mores performing well for the Belles. Freshman Megan Gray and sophomore Megan Murphy have consistently had top finishes and should help give the team another opportunity to be strong competitors in the fall. 
-



Soccer 
scoring 10.3 points per game and grab-. 
With all but three of their play­bing 5.3 rebounds. She exploded ers returning for the 2004 sea­against Tri-County on Jan. 24 for son, including two-time first 31 points on 12-20 shooting. team all-MIAA senior Jen Creachbaum completed her Concannon, the Belles fourth year as the Belles' looked forward to a sec­starting power forward. She ond season with a win­led the team in scoring and ning record in the confer­rebounding her senior year, ence. For the first time averaging 13 points and 6.3 since it joined the league, rebounds per game. Saint Mary's felt it was The Belles played .500 strong enough to challenge through the month of for the MIAA title and January, but disaster struck hoped to earn an automatic as an early stretch against the bid to the NCAA Tournament. conference's top teams resulted 
The team looked poised to in four straight blowout losses. A make a title run when it started the game against Alma looked to be an 
year 4-0-1, but problems arose when the Belles were unable to win on the road. They lost 4-1 at Olivet College on Sept. 26 but rebounded in their next game to defeat Hope 2-0, handing the eventual MIAA champion its only conference loss of the year. 
The team then lost four of their next five on the rmid and could not capitalize on chances against top conference teams Calvin, Kalamazoo and Albion. Although it missed the goal of the MIAA title, the team still managed to close the season with a winning record in conference, fm­ishing 9-6-1 and recording 10 wins overall. Concannon and fellow senior Katie Taylor were honored with spots on the all-MIAA first team. 
Softball 

After winning five of their first eight games during the team's spring trip to Fort Myers, Fla., the Belles did not win again until the final day of the season. 
Saint Mary's pitched and hit relatively well to begin the year, but the team was hobbled by poor defense during a 20-game losing streak that began on March 10 and lasted until April 
28. In 16 league games, the Bolles committed 44 errors, allowing 48 unearned runs. Opponents took advantage of the Belles' catch­ers, stealing 22 bases on 24 attempts. 
Saint Mary's could not shift the negative momentum during the streak, as the team was swept in eight consecutive double-headers, including losses to conference foes Tri-State, Albion, Adrian, Calvin, Hope, Alma and Olivet. 
After going more than a month without a win, the Belles' final matchup of the year came against Kalamazoo at home. By beating the Hornets in both games, Saint Mary's earned a tie for eighth place in the MIAA, rather than fmish­ing alone in the cellar. The Belles fmished the year 2-14 in the conference and 7-23 overall. 
Swimming 

Seniors Ashley Dyer (freestyle sprint) and Michelle Stanforth (breaststroke, individual medley) co-captained the Saint Mary's swim team for the 2004-2005 season, which provided a combination of ups and downs for the Belles. 
The team posted a win early in the season, defeating Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, and achieved their first conference win in over a year against Alma on Jan. 15. 
However, at the conference meet in February, the Belles were unable to come out ahead of Alma after maintaining a slim lead over the Scots the first two days of the meet. Saint Mary's finished the MIAA competition in seventh place, five points behind Alma. 
Sarah Nowak, who led the Belles at the confer­ence meet by setting three team records throughout the course of the weekend, earned her first MIAA all-conference honor. Saint Mary's was also honored with the eleventh highest team GPA in the country among Division III schools. 
Basketball 

The 2004-2005 season was a roller coaster ride for the Saint Mary's basketball team. Season sweeps of Kalamazoo and Tri-County provided excitement, but a five-game, early­February losing streak doomed a promising sea­son as the Belles finished 9-15 (6-10) and sixth in the MIAA. 
Seniors Katie Boyce, Maureen Bush, Emily Creachbaum and Deidre Mangan each made a valuable contribution in their final season. 
Bush anchored the middle for the Belles, 
opportunity to right the ship, but the Belles suffered their fifth straight loss when Boyce's 3­point shot for the win rimmed out at the buzzer. 
Tennis 

A young Saint Mary's squad improved dramat­ically as the year went on, winning their last four matches and finishing with an 8-9 record, good enough for fifth in the MIAA. 
The Belles started the season slowly, winning just four of their flrst 13 matches. Then, begin­ning with a 5-4 victory over Bethel College on April 21, they cruised over four straight oppo­nents. The winning streak inducted 9-0 victories over conference opponents Alma and Olivet and a 5-4 road win over Aquinas. 
Kristen Palombo anchored the first singles position for the Belles, compiling a 9-10 record. 
On the doubles side, Caile Mulcahy and Kelly McDavitt posted the best record of any Belles pair, going 11-8 playing in the number one spot early in the year and then shifting to number two just before the late season hot streak. 
McDavitt also posted the best singles record on the team, going 14-5 in the three and four spots. 
The future looks bright for the Belles, who lose only one major contributor, No. 2 singles regular Miranda Mikulyuk. 
Volleyball 

The Saint Mary's volleyball team had a difficult rebuilding season this year, as a tough confer­ence schedule culminated in an early exit from the MIAA Tournament. 
The Belles finished the season seventh in the MIAA with a record o·f 5-11. Overall, Saint Mary's concluded the season with a record of 6­
19. After beginning the year 0-5, the squad gained momentum and at one time was as high as fifth in the league and challenging for the fourth spot. However, they were never quite able to pull it all together and fmished the season 2­11 in their fmal13 matches. 
The seniors leaving the Belles include captains Michelle Gary, Elise Rupright and Stacey Stark. The trio of athletes played an important role for Saint Mary's and will be difficult to replace next year. 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, May 13, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY 
ALEK WHITE AND ERIC POWERS 
JOCKULAR 
I can't believe we're wearing the same thing! 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

31 Part of H.M.S. 34 Many millennia 35 To the left or 
right 

May the road r1se to meet you, May the wind be always be at your back, May the sun shine warm upon your face, The rains fall soft upon your fields. And until we meet again, May God hold you in the palm of His hand. 
-Irish Blessing 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
.Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
67 Displaced person 68 Some M&M's · 69 Bank (on) 70 Durable fabric 
DOWN 1 In style 2 Start of a Latin 
conjugation 3 Elevator part 4 Baptist leader? 5 Passamaquoddy 
home 6 Formal accessory 7 Double 
checker aRival of Bjorn 9 Parcel 
10 Sound setup 11 Final Four site 12 Horse fathers 13 Wear 21 Poetic 
conjunction 22 Combusted 23 Try a tidbit 24 Luau greeting 25 Not so common 26 Palm, ·e.g. 
29 Huge worry 
WILLSHORTZ 


36 Put forward  49 Moving  57 Dr. Jones, to  
37 Diary note 39 "Cheers" role  50 Sign of the 1960's  friends 61 Fire truck  
40 Savanna sight 41 Tissue additive 45 Some brews 47 Key abbr.  51 Sat around 54 Open a bit 55 Scale start  accessory 62 Canterbury can 63 Elm City collegian 64 "Stand" band,  
48 Masticated  56 Old fiddle  1989  

For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
JUMBLE 
JJ~ID1rR 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
I SOUNIC 
[1)
www.jumble.com
tGOTSDY t
I J I J 
Ans: ." ( 

I I I I I I J"( I I I I J
• 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I CAPON EJECT FINISH DEFINE Yesterday's Sent to the showers, the hurler remained ­
OFF"PITCH" 
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Natasha Rkhardson, 42: Louis Farrakhan, 72:. Mort Sahl, 78; Jonathan Jackson. 23  - 
Happy Birthday: Everything you do this year will make a difference to your future. Financial gains can he made. hut only if you arc willing to do something unique. If there is something you want, realize that you will have to fight for it. This can he a great year--hut it will require effort on your part. Your numhcrs arc 5, 18, 27, 34, 36, 37  
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Traveling to a destination that is inspiring and creative will gel you moving in a whole new direction. C'ommunkaling wilh people in the know or who have experience you lack will help you make a decision. **** TAURUS (April21J-May 20): The more you look hack at your goals and aspirations from the past. the closer you will come to turning some of your dreams into a reality. Just hccause you may not he ahle to do exactly what you had planned doesn't mean you can't he a part of that industry. organinllion or culture in some way. *** GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): Things arc heating up in your world. Stay calm and make the most of some good opportunities that arc present. Plan some form of entertainment that will allow you to mix husiness with pleasure. A passionate evening is in order. *** CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): You'll he feeling a lillie restless today. Make some changes lo your surroundings. The more you can do to spruce up your living space. the better. * * * LEO (July 2.~-Aug. 22): This will he a hectic day. You will he involved in a wide variety of projects. It will lake organization and palience to gel everything done the way you want. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't let things get to you today. Being overly concerned ahoul a problem you think you arc having will cause the situation to escalate. Avoid heing judgmental; listen and ohserve without taking over. •• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll have some interesting ideas ahoul your future and how to make changes leading loa hcller life. Personal alterations will turn out he Iter than you expect. ***** SCORI'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): It's lime to collect old dchls and to clcm·up money mailers. Once you slarl the hall rolling, you will feel much hcller ahoul your future. A lighter hudgel or a solid investment will gel you moving in lhc right direction. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Just when you think you've ligurcd everything out, something will happen that will change your mind. Love is prominent, hut make sure you stick to one person. Spreading yourself around or leading someone on will come hack to haunt you. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jun. 19): Keep your nose nul of everyone else's business and you will do much hcller today. Arguments will not solve problems. Pushing your will on snmcone will lead lo opposition. *"* AQlJARilJS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your generosity may he welcomed and appreciated, hut it may leave you feeling cash-poor ...... PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may have the discipline to gel things done, hut you arc likely lo cause ill feelings with someone if you gn ahoul things without gelling approval. **  - 
Hirthduy Baby: You arc changeahle. versatile and very interested in everything and everyone. You arc a good student and a wonderful teacher. You arc inquisitive, competitive and always looking for a challenge.  
Eugenia's Weh sites: aslroadvice.com for fun. cugenialast.com l(lr conridL•ntial  
The Observer  
P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

page 43 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
-


WHEN REVEIL-L-E WAS SOUNDED, THE: COMMANDER SAID IT WAS A--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 Cousin of a cockatoo 
6 Read on the run 
10 Lip 
14 Sultanate citizen 15 Shower square 16 Fall preceder 
17 Informal head cover 
18 Housing _ ~ 
19 First name in architecture 
20 One who gets a piece of the pie? 
23 Kind of sauce 
27 Religious commemoration 
28 Fearful 
30 Baltimore partner 32 licked off 
33 Allude 35 Copy 38 Borderline 
logic? 42 Ring site 43 Cockamamie 44 Roll 45 Sing the praises 
of 46 Kind of ring 49 Bee-related 52 Ally in movies 53 "Stay away from 
the swamp grass"? 58 Poe product 59 Bridge 60 It may be well-taken 65 Pastry chef's aide 
66 2003 A.L. M.V.P., familiarly 


THE 0HSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, May 13, 2005 
page 44 
-
OUTSTANDING SENIOR ATHLETES 
Consistent excellence 
Selim Nurudeen takes 
Alicja Kryczalo used 
homefour top finishes foil to find success at 
in Big East hurdles nation's elite levels 
By KATE GALES By ERIC RETTER Associate Sports Editor Sports Writer 
Selim Nurudeen is used to For the first time since she having obstacles in his path. was about 11 years old, Alicja 
After all, for a hurdler, obsta­Kryczalo is unsure how she will des defme the road to success -fill her time. and Nurudeen has seen phe­Kryczalo, a three-time NCAA nomenal success in the 110-champion in the foil who has meter hurdles, taking the Big been fencing year-round at the East title in the event for four highest level for the past dozen consecutive years. years, is ready to have free time 
"He is a quiet leader, and he and to discover new interests. does what he has to do to be "To be honest, I'm very excit­great," coach Joe Piane said. "If ed, bocause I feel like I can now you see the best kid on the team create my life, because it was doing everything -not cutting always shaped by fencing," corners -for the younger kids, Kryczalo said. "I was so lucky to it motivates you." have [fencing], but now I feel I'm
-This leadership and four years ready to create something with of excellence with the Irish track my life." team aro the reasons why The Next year. Kryczalo plans on Observer has named Nurudeen working as an intern for the the 2004-2005 Senior Male Culver Academy, an elite college­Athlete of the Year. prop boarding school in Culver, "We've been running since we Ind., about 40 minutes from wern little, competing against Notrn Dame. each other and everything" ''I'm sure I want to do the Nurudeen said, fondly remem-internship next year ... [but] it's 
CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer and Observer File Photo 
Selim Nurudeen and Alicja Kryczalo have been named The Observer's 2004-05 Outstanding Notre see NURUDEEN/page 36 Dame Senior Male and Female Athletes of the Year. see KRYCZALO/page 37 
Simmerman looks for second national title 
Excellence is par for course with former national champion 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 

-
It didn't take long for Stefanic Simmerman to make her mark. 
Just two years into her colle­giate career, the then-sopho­more won the i n d i vi d u a I See Also 
national title for Division 
"Belles to 
Ill women's challenge for golf. The 
national
achievement was mome­awards" tous -her 
page 38
title was the first national championship in any sport in the history of Saint Mary's ath­letics. 
"It means more to me that the school is recognized [with a champion] than I am individu­ally," she said. 
For this reason and for her 


continued excellence on the golf course, the senior has been named the 2004-05 Saint Mary's Athlete of the Year. 
As a sophomore, Simmerman shot 315 (76-82-77 -80) for four rounds at The Links of Green Lake, Wise., to win the 2003 individual title. 
"The school has done so much for me," she said. "Bringing back that title to represent the school is just my contribution." 
But Simmerman made an impact well before being crowned national champion. 
As a freshman, she led the Belles and finished third in the MIAA in scoring average, earn­ing her lirst of four consecutive All-MIAA First Team honors. She is the first Saint Mary's golfer to ever accomplish that feat. 
"Starting off that well, I thought it eould only get better from there -and it has," she said. "If I didn't play that well my freshman year, I don't think I would have enjoyed the suc­cess I have the past three years." 
Simmerman steadily imp­

roved from her 88.4 scoring average in the fall of 2001 to 
82.8 in the fall of her sopho­more year. That season, she captured second place in the MIAA for conference scoring average, finishing at 81.4 for MIAA events. 
ller average stayed virtually unchanged in the lead-up to her championship that spring, but fell further the next fall. She finished the conference­heavy schedule of fall 2003 with an 82.0 stroke average and won MIAA medalist honors with the lowest scoring aver­age in the conference. 
As Simmerman has imp­roved, so has the eompetition. 
"I remember freshman year, girls were happy when you broke ninety," she said. "Now it's a eouple over par." 
She credits the increasing level of competition with much or her success but gives even more credit to Saint Mary's head eoach, Mark Hamilton. 
Since taking over coaching duties in Simmerman's sopho­more year, Hamilton has 
see TITLE/page 38 

en 
MEN~s GOlf 
HOCKEY
FOOTBAll 
FENCING TRACK AND FIELD

ND WOME~fS SOCCER 
t--
LLI Co) Willingham fired 

Teams finish z after -6 season Jim Kubinski turns 
Dave Poulin resigns 

Irish win national Irish take second 
team around as head coach championship national title in second in Big East three years

Irish win big games, but 

Squad wins program 
Team suffers through a 
Selim Nurudeen and
&:C :3 
5-27-6 season, and the

= Michal Sobieraj wins Maryanne Erigha leadinconsistency dooms best two tournaments Penalty kick victory over 
and is confident for 
UCLA caps 24-1-1 year. 
individual title as teamhead coach. 
Irish coach moves on. 
Irish to strong finish.
c:c 
NCAAs. 
edges Ohio State. 

= 
page 33 
page 31 page 27

A. page 35 page 33 page 26 
en 



Friday, May 13, 2005 Graduation Advertisement Insert
+THE OBSERVER+ 
A DOMER!!!!!! 
Kimberly, Congratulations! May you be blessed with health and happiness and may the luck of the Irish follow you always . 
.,ii Love, Mom, Dad, and Zack 
Congratulations Shay Baby' 
.}". ¥ 
Ready for your next adventure. Congratulations Emily Love, Mom, Dad tmd Michelle 
Keep reaching for the sky! Congratulations! With love and pride, The Whole "Famdam . 
c(()) IITl grr(ffitllllll(ffitn(()) IITl ~ 1(ffiyll (())If~ 
Love you always, Mom, Dad, Gayle, and Carolyn 


Congratulations AnnaKate! 
We wish you much continued success at 
lSU. 
May all your dreams come true! We love you, Dad, Mom, and Matt 


page 2 The Observer+ CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 Friday, May 13, 2005 


P-B, with great respect, love and admiration for the person that you are and for your many accomplishments. You are our joy and our treasure. Love always, MaandDad 

Emily# you have ~-~~n ..;[rish' from your first day of seh We are so proud of yout We love you bunchesl 
Dad, Mom, Pete# and Hattie 


Friday. May 13, 200'5 
The Observer + CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 page 3 
Weare proud of youJ.R.! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Tara, & Sandy 

page 4 
The Observer+ GRADUATION ADVERTISEMENT INSERT Friday, May 13, 2005 
You'll always be our little girl 


Erin Kathleen Brooks 
We are so proud ofyou! Love, Mom, Kelli, and Kevin 
Congratu~ationsp Betsy~ 
Our "Belle" of St. Mary's. 
Love, Dad, Mom, Mary, Ryan &"the boys" 
Congratulations YaH We always knew you were a winner! We also know you are the star that will. always 
light up our lives. ',, ;.. 
We love you> ' ' Mom, Dad,. Grandma.& 
We're so proud of you! You've always been first class. 
Congratulations! I love you Lindsey ... ·Tommy 

Friday, May 13, 2005 
The Observer + CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 page 5 
Congratulations Allison! 
We love you and couldn't be more proud of you. We hope that you continue to "shake down the thunder" in all you do. 
Love, Mom, Dad & Liz 


LrJJ'e/ 
/~ lrfll/ 

CONGRA TUIA TIONS! We are so proud ofyou. Thank you for fulfilling Granpa $ dream. Go Irish! We love you, The Gomez and Alvarez Families 
"/can see the acceptance letter to Notre Dame now Ann " COULD NOT BE ANY PROUDER OF YOU LOVE MOM, DAD & KATE 
Friday, May 13, 2005 

page 6 The Observer+ CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 
Congratulations Ben. Thanks for the Memories 


Karen Clairmont-You 
ARE a 
champion! Congratulation Love, Mom, Dad & Steve 


"I've got to graduate, Monk. It's alright. I'm not afraid. Sometime, Monk, when the Irish are up 
against it, when things are wrong and the breaks 
are beating us, tell them to go in there with all 
they've got and win just one for Erin. I don't know 
where I'll be then, Monk, but I will hear about it, 
and Jill be happy." 

Congratulations Erin. Hard work pays off. 
"Erin Marie 1\.fcCoy, B.S., Notre Dame, 2005" -has a nice ring to it, doesn't it? 
Mom, Dad, Megan & Danny 

r----------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, May 13, 2005 The Observer • CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 page 7 

Congratulation$ kaura 
~MC'o5 
w~ kn~w goa eoald do it tJnd w~ tJr~ a;o proadofgoal 
With koV{Z from ~11 Your family, 
®ad and Mom 
Iiatali{Z 

6{Zorgia and ()~ear 
Grandma O'Rourk{Z 
Grandpa and Grandma ko~urdo 
~nd all your uncl{Z~, aunt~ and eou~in£ 


~----­
page 8 The Observer+ CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 Friday, May 13, 2005 
.Jtuguroni 
~ 'f
10YL 
C'lie 1Jio ti 
6enedlca. 
Love, 
:7\tto;n and1)ad-
You are the sunshine of our lives. Love, your family 

-

Friday, May 13, 2005 The Observer + CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 page 9 

Congratulations Greg! You're the best!! Love, Mom, John, and Peter 
May God continue to enlighten your mind with His wisdom, enrich your soul with His goodness, touch your life with His kindness, and bless your heart with His love. 
Congratulations Vinnie. 
Love, Mom, Dad and Gina 


.--~------------·--------------------------------­
Friday, May 13, 2005 
We can hardly believe that today is the day to put down books 
and go out and play! Congratulations Sarah Catherine White 
We love you, Mom, Dad and john Charles xoxo 
KRISTEN­
YOUR EDUCATION GOES WELL BEYOND YOUR CLASSES AT NOTRE DAME. IT IS THE FRIENDS YOU HAVE MADE, YOUR EXPERIENCES AT ND AND THE FAITH YOU HAVE SEEN ALL AROUND YOU. 
·~. :~~""­

You ARE CERTAINLY MORE THAN THE SUM OF ALL THESE PARTS. As YOU HEAD OFF TO SAN DIEGO, TAKE THESE WITH You. You ARE THE MOST PRECIOUS GIFT YOU CAN OFFER. 
CoNGRATULATIONS AND LOTS oF LOVE, DAD, MoM, Liz, AND MARY Jo 

Congratulations Danielle 
on becoming a Notre Dame Graduate 
We love you, Mom, Dad, Dustin, and Damon 
Congratulations on both your Aerospace and Spanish degrees. 
Lots of love, Dad, Mom, David and Michelle 

page 12 The Observer+ CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 Friday, May 13, 2005 
Sugarplum, you are on your way 
This is the beginning of a brand new day Success is a journey not a destination You are already there, so congratulations! 
Love, Mom, Dad and Family 

Her name is Emily! 

Congratulations. Love Mom & Dad Raymond, we're so proud of the man you've become. /ways follow your heart and remember how much we love you! Mom, Dad, Robert &Ryan 
Friday, May 13, 2005 

Congratulations Molly­our life, our sweetness, and our hope. We are so proud of you. 
Love, Mambo & Daddy 
Hob, \\P'rt• so proud ol' \Oil! TIH'S<' I(HII' 'Pars al \I) ha\t' llmnt h\.. ( :lwl'islt 
\ 0111' ~I) II H'lliOI'i<'S. Lo\ <\ ~lo111 ~o.\: Dad 

The Observer + CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 page 13 
Jennifer, You are such a blessing and inspiration to us. We wish you joy, wisdom, and lasting love. 
Grandpa would be so very proud of you and what you've accomplished. 
Love, Mom, Dad, Niki and Granny. 

The Observer+ CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 Friday, May 13, 2005 
"Life is not a having and a getting, but a being and a becoming."-Matthew Arnold 
We're so very proud of you! Congratulations with all our love, Mom, Dad & Jerry 
Brian, 
You sang the Notre D ight Song for your · ndergarten teacher and 
ld her, "I'm going to otre Dame!" You have lived your dream and we 
so proud of you. Congratulations! Love, 
XOXO Mum, Dad XOXO Colleen & Greg 
May friends, family and laughter be your constant companions. We love you, Dad, Mom, Nick & Allie 
Friday, May 13, 2005 
The Observer + CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 page 15 

CON(jRJ\'T'UL.Jt 'TIO:NS 
Jvleglian ~nne! 
}jou are our crcfiamyion"! Ouryrid"e and"joy! 
We {ove you, Mom and'Daa 

Congratulations
Peuuv! 






page 16 The Observer+ CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 Friday, May 13, 2005 
Congratulations Dennis!! 




jaclyn 

"To dream anything that you want to 
dream, That's the beauty ofthe human mind. To do anything that you want to do, That is the strength ofthe human will. To trust yourself to test your limits, That is the courage to succeed. " 
Author Bernard Edmonds 


Congratulations ]aclyn! 
We are very proud ofyou! Your family who always loves you! 


Friday, May 13, 2005 The Observer + CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 page 17 
Congratulations 
DINKY!! Your family adores you-we are so very proud!! 
SMIDGE, TAI\D, E, DNC, MAI\Y LOU, ABBY, SALLY, NAN, VIN &PAPA 


• 
f!:.,,,, ,CJ£m. [j)Jc~tl. .fi;,n antlj/uni{f' 
Congratulations Ruthie! 
of our don1er! Love, Man1a, Dad and En1ma 

Congratulations Katy! the "Luck the Irish" be 
with you as you Take Your First Steps into Your Future! 
Love, Mom, Dad 
and Tracy! 
Friday, May 13, 2005 

page 18 The Observer+ CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 




Congratuiations 'Betfit We are so yroudof you! 'Best wisfies to tfie C{ass of2005 
:Mom, 'Dacf, Jim, ]ofzn, and 
Stepfien 


And of course, GO IRISH! 
In typical Gina fonn, you have managed to have an incredible 4 years academically and still found the time to take in the full ND experience (which of course includes "Boat" among others). We too loved being part of the "family" even though you said we couldn't. So, ClJEERS to our first tailgate of next season. 




Congratulations Katie! 
We are all S() pr()ttci ()fy()U! 
I.~ove., l\lo111 & l)ad~ l)onov~tn., I)evin~ and l{yan 
page 20 The Observer+ CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 Friday, May 13, 2005 

First you were an "Angel", then "Red Hawk", then a "Saint"; 
ucated at Notre Dame with the "Fighting Irish." Look out University of Chicago Law. Will is ready r the challenge!! Love Dad, Mom & Lizzy 

Congratulations 
I 

Maureen! 
(\ little giri orows uo so fast, .And soon vvo sou tr1o years havo past. YOU'(] wornari, our cJalJQhtur. cur py and our hor:irt, You've r·eached tJ-Je enfj only to flrY] a new ~~tart. 
\Ne're so prouc~ of you! Love always, i\J1orn, Dac!, \/ike :?,. G::r1i 
2004 CIAMPfOIS 
aEiNAN fD9TBAL£ 
iifc ~ft04t!<·1f! 
Caitfin-

So veryyroud'ofyour liard' work, accomyfisfiments, and' your comyassion for otfiers. May (jod6{ess you andkeey you safe as you take' yourfirst steys on {ije 's wonderfu{journey. Congratu{ations! 
Love, Mom, Ray, and' 'Da{e 
CONGiATULAT\ONS 
Friday, May 13, 2005 
The Observer + CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 page 21 
Dear Mom and Dad...here is what 40 grand a year bought you .. .I mean ME...My Life at Notre Dame 
• 
Irish Football and home game tailgates 

• 
A dorm room on God's Quad 

• 
Life as an Otter 


• 
No Parent Rules...My Room ...My Mess 

• 
Sleeping in a box on South Quad...by choice 

• 
Jobs paying Minimum Wage...grading papers and umpping girls' softball. 

• 
A semester studying in London ...and Paris and the Czech Republic and Italy and Germany, Ireland and Spain ... .I did study...PROMISE! 

• 
A summer internship spending your cash in DC. 

• 
My first road trip...to Ohio 

• 
My second road trip to Georgia 


• 
Spring Breaks in Florida and Las Vegas 

• 
An internship (UNDERC) in Land 0' Lakes Wisconsin counting trees, small mammals, mosquitoes, etc. 

• 
An afternoon Fishing with Father Hesburgh 

• 
Completing three majors in four years ...and yes ... being on the Deans list... at least once 

• 
Life time friends 


• 
A stronger faith in God, Community, and Self 

• 
Another 3 years tuition at Law School. .. including room and board? Hey, a man can dream! IVThank you for teaching me to dream so bigIV 


IV I Love you with all of my heart IV Your Son, Steve 
P.S. But when I grow up...I still want to be...a Cowboy! 

Love Mo1n, Dad, Tess and The Mer 
We are so proud of you! 

Love, Mom, Dad and Ashley 
Irish eyes are smiling down upon you Jen! 
Congratulations on all you have accomplished. We love you! Mom & Dad 

We wish you well in your next new adventure... We love you! ·fvt~ni& Dad 




Congratulations Elena! We're prottd ofyou! 
Love, Your Farnily 

page 22 

The Observer+ CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 Friday, May 13, 2005 


Love, Mom, Dad 8e Megan 
I 

. ·, Congratulations, 
·Katie. 
' 
-
~""" 

Love, ~ Mom, Dad and Sara 
Even when you were a girl of three, You knew where you always wanted to be. 
You marched to the fight song And sang it out loud. And soon one day you were part of that crowd. 
The past four years-they really flew. And now your time the dome is through. 
But before you go, we want you to know, you shine even brighter than the golden dome's glow. 
Co:n.g:ra--t'U.l.a--tio:n.s A.:n.drea, 
Todayisyo-u.r day, yo-u're o££--to grea--t p1aces. Yo-u're o££ a:n.d a"WVay. Oh.! Thep1aces yo-u 
~go. 

:Dr. Se-u..ss 
tLJnt dle§lttLJnty1> 
}[ ]£ ll § lhl 0 5 
JHfO)V,al 09J 

(Co1mgJr,Cltlt1U[1l,otlt IL o 1nt§ 
M(o 1nntt JO) ;at(dl>' 

§oJnntelr ~& 1r,oty1loJr 
OBsERVER 
Editor in Chief 2003-2004 Matt Lozar 
Follow your dreams ... 
Nowhere else but 
Love, Mom, Dad, 

Notre Dame! 
Ben &Zach 
' • 1""< ., 

hiday, May 13, 2005 The Observer + CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 page 23 


Congratulations Jasmine Brown 

Mommy: Thank you for teaching us to.... Never give up, Never give in and...NEVER NEVER QUIT! Love, Kai Maliq and Indonesia Angelique Jas-Be Proud, Be Humble, Be Happy--Love--Mom, Dad & Quincy 
·== ~ 
-:;::::; 
~ 
..t:l c
·r:;. 
~ 

"I hope you don't mind that J put down ill wor'd'>.. How wonderful life is while you're in the world!". -Elton Jl1hn 
page 24 Friday, May 13, 2005 
The Observer+ CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 

Congratulations! You will always be our pride & joy. 
May God bless you and may all your dreams come true. 

UlluU!m~ [BITJ[]]g)[?COGrnOffiGDCDrn~ ITJrn CBITJrnJ[J)OffiaurngJ r.J(JJ[l[? (B(})0Qffig)ffi ~(JJr.Jfi)g)ffi~ 

You were born to wear that sweatshirt! Congratulations Matt­We are very proud of you! 
Love, Mom, Dad, and Dan 
Congratulations Jon! 
From a small town boy to a "fighting Irish!" 

UTHEN,, 
When you first graduated from pre-kindergarten, we started dreaming of you graduating f~om a university like "Notre Dame" 
nNOW, 

Finally the special day has arrived. "Thank you our darling and loving son,-for making our dreams come true." We love you & God bless you. Mom & Dad 
Friday, May 13, 2005 The Observer + CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 

CO.GRA7S PE7E !!! 
We are weryproud of you 
All our love, tlom, Dad, tlolly, tlike and Ali 
page 25 

Daniel, your hard work and dedication have made us proud. You did it! You will soon be graduating from your dream college, Notre Dame! May your faith in God and love of life stay with you always. 
Love, Mom, Dad Melissa 
(;ongrittnlittions Kitty! \\'c ili'C VCI'} proud of yon! ljove, Uitd itDII Mom 
-l 
~ 
I 
I 
I 
r-------------­
page 26 The Observer+ CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 Friday, May 13, 2005 

CHRISTINA, WE ARE SO PROUD OF YOU! 
I 





We see your strengths reflected in your eyes Accept any weaknesses as a sign to try harder, Your spirit has grown and filled our hearts with love, You have learned lessons 
that you can share with others, Do not follow the road already made-
enjoy making your own path, 
Be a man of value and let God's love bring you peace and happiness... 
That will make you a rich man. We love you, Mom&Dad Brian C. Mulhall 
The Observer + CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 
CONGRATULATIONS ADAM! 
From your first day of school to NO ALUMNUS ... We are so very proud of you!!! Love, Mom and Dad 

.-----------------~·--­
The Observer+ CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 
ICOtlar;ltul:ations on completing vour degree in chemical engineering, and wishes as vou begin the next adventure: medical school. We're so dof vou, and we love vou! 
Ball, Mama, ant/Sam 

CONGRATULA'T'IONS LAUREN!!! 
You're a tough act to follow! 
Love and Hugs., Megan 
Mom., Dad 
Cath&PJ 



friday, May I 3, 2005 The Observer + CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 page 29 

B. Young, our Brian, 

Congratulations
you are awesome! 

Jackie!
Continue to grow in grace 
We are so verv proud
and wisdom. We love you 
otvou#24. 

so much! Mom, Dad, P 
Love, Mom and Dad 
Kavlen and Ashlev
Sarah & Michelle·. 

·Go IRISHI 


page 30 The Observer+ CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 Friday, May 13, 2005 

Friday, May 13, 2005 The Observer + CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 page 31 
.. 

CONGRATULATIONS 
ASTRID! 
We are so very proud of you. 
Love, Mom, Dad, &Mervin 
We ' re proud of our new Aerospace Engineer, Nicole Yvette Orozco. 
You Made ltl Love always Mom & Dad 
Dear Allison, 
Oh the Places You've Been... since setting sail Four years ago ! 
An amazing ND journey you've had... incredible people you've met, awesome things you've accomplished, and exciting places you've experienced from SouthBend. Indiana to Athens, Greece! 
Today is your day. You deserve it! Yet.. another mountain is waiting. So get on your way! 
We're so proud of you!! 
Love always, 
Mlm&Dad 
~~ Jlsft{eyjjrme ([)yer [;;~ 
'Witli tlie dreams oftomorrow we dre cefe6rating ;4sfrfey_:4,,, <Dyer. ;4s u•c tfrovt 0011111 "'Ifie ;4venut"Presftman year we were awed6y tlie 6eauty andstateti'ness oftne sycamore trees. Now as ·we lrit;e !ouJrr "'1ftt ,fl'flCIIUe" oua again ill feaving Saint :Mary's Senior year we are au•td 6y the pcr:ron ouru•ontfcrjufdaughter lias 6ecomc. Slic is a sister wlio (~as a sensitive nature, at1 under:rtanding neart, a spirited sou~ atld'a wonderfufsense of fiumor. 'You are wry disapfinrtl, a strong feader, an e;q:efknt stutftnt, a foverof art, a foya{friend, and·a cframpion for women. We liJ•ow tfrat you wi{[ mali.! tnt worfif a 6etter pface. 'YOu liavt man_y taftnts... use tfiem wdl! •We u•isli you tfte <ll'ES'I111 Wt fo.ve you wry much!!! 
Love, Lauren 'Efu;a6etft, 9rlom and<Dad.r._~:>;,o 
r 
I 
•
• 
! t 
page 32 

I 
I 
' 

I 



The Observer+ CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 Friday, May 13, 2005 

As you set out on your journey may you always travel by "bubble" and remember that black is this year's PINK! Congratulations Carrie Love, Mom, Dad, Toye, Chris, & Holland 
Katie, May you Always Keep on Dane in! Congratulations! Lm.•e, Dad, Mom, Danny, Colin, Ryan, Shannon, 
& Dillon 
Sandino Class of2005 

Congratulations Carolyn, We know you'll rock the world. We love you, Mom, Dad & Chris 

The Observer + CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 page 33 
Blessed Mother -Please help me study hard so I can go to N D when I grow up. Love, Katie Maureen (prayers really do get answered II) 

-


-


I I I I 
~ 
I page 34
I 
I ­
I I 
' 
I 
' Congratulations,
I 
Courtney. 
' We are so
I ~ 
' 
I 
I proud of
I I 
I 
' you!
' 
' 
' 
I I 
Love always, DadandMom 
' 
I -KatieI YOU DID IT LOVE, WOLKIEI MOM, DAD AND WE'RE NICK, PROUD I LAURA CONGRAYS. 
Love, Mom, Dad, & Michael 

Congratulation~ erinl 

i 
I I I I I I I I I I 
• 
~ 
I 
I I I I I I I I I 
I 
I I 
I 
~ ­
I I I I I I I 
' 
Congrats

I 
I I I 
Geo majors! We made it...

I 
I I 
we ROCK!

I 
I I I 
! t 
! 
I 
Congrats Sarah! 

"Live to Hide, and 
I 
I .,. I 
~ 
I I I I I I 
I~ove, 
.., 
Mom, Dad, 
Steve and Marie 
Friday, May 13, 2005 The Observer + CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 page 35 

.. ·.,Congratulations 1Rosel We're so proud otvou Goodluckln Medical Schooll 
love alwavs. 

Mom. Dad, Gina, Brandl and Brodie •xo 

) : h'> : ' . <,"...~·'·.:.<'.. ~··>~~~~ 
' «,i( , ', 'S>;q;·,: 

Congralulalions Jim 
All our love 
Mom, Dad, Jean and Dan 
You have always been a great daughter. Congratulations on your graduation. We are so proud ofyou! 
Love, Mom & Dad, Apo/, Peachy, Jesy, Jan and Jerome 
Wow! Gue11 ol that 1tudying lUte paid off. We•re 10 proud 
of you. 
love you. 
IDom.Dad.&­Dan. 
Way to go, Nick! You~ve ,always looked good it1 a power tie! Love you! 
tM, tlad, g. Kyle 
-

r----------------------------------------~-­
page 36 The Observer+ CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 Friday, May 13, 2005 
u have accomplished much. We are so proud ofyou! 
Love, Mom & Dad 




C::frtdd!zzU;tw /Duw!!sel o,u-lrl~)-fhi& £/Vttl 
Love, Mom, Dad, Tim, Mark, Ceri, Alex, and Riley 



The Obserl!er + CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 page 37 
years at Notre Dame gone? You have made lifelong friends, traveled the world, and have a 
degree that you have 
worked very hard for. 
you and your accom­plishments. The future holds great promise for you! Congratulations, Didders!! Much love, 
Dad, Mom, and Kyle . 
Congrats Colin; class of '05 
Love, Pad; 

class of '76 

ear Lindsey: ongratulations on your graduation from Notre Dame! st of luck as you pursue a career in Veterinary Medicine. 
Weare a{ways behind you. 
Love, Jvlom and 1Jad 

"u~no matter what 
the costs, we must 
learn the ways to 
circumvent a system 
that see~ powerful____ 
women as a threat.') 
We Are so proud of !JOU! J,ove, £l!}om, ~A.t, do!J Ao.t £rie 

l 
determination Is apparent.Eathlenee has been ........red detlslvety. Grade ............ high SthOOI, and 
St. Mary's, are the 
l 
l t
....,..~.,···-stones through a yet untrossed. 
l 
t 
t
have an watthed with 
l 
l
and pride. What glory 
' l 
l
thts budding nower? 
I 
·Dad, Ed, Thom, .... tamille, Hat, 

~----------------------------------------------------------­

t ' I 
~ 
I 
!• 
~ 
I 


page 38 The Observer+ CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 Friday, May 13, 2005 



To our chichay who is always in charge, your determination in any endeavor is amazing! Congratulations on ajob well done! Love, Mom & Dad 

May Irish angels smile upon you and bless you each and every dayT Love, Mom and Dad 

Like father, like daughter. 
Congratulation Sabrina, our newest domer! 
Along ago dream is finanv realized. We are so proud of vou, 
"Big Guv"! 

Love, Mom, Dad, Kirsten and the Cats 

Becke-t, you always climb to the -top. 
We are so proud of you. 
Love, Nom, Dad, Alban & Hannah 


Congratulations Mike, your possibilities 
are as endless · as your dreams. 
Love, Mom, Dad, and Kali 

~To Erica Bove 
''Fill your lives with love and bravery) and shall lead a life uncommon, }J 
We are so very proud! Morn, Dad, !=rancesca, Ernie and Joe:lle 
\Visiting you-­prid(• in your 
aecom pI ish nwnl s, f'ulli II n I<' nl in your 
C(ll'('('l', and SIHT<'SS 
in all you do. 1\1 orn, lkn, a11 d C'ma 
page 40 The Observer+ CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2005 Friday, May 13, 2005 

·•·•·•.···.·. men·· ......· 
oornoriDGtmC8illt11w .. (B(DQ 
Weare soproudol 
vour 
Mom. Shannon. Shawn and Knox 

< 
We always 
knew you'd 
make it to 
Wall Street. 
Love, Mom, Dad and Kristin 

I I
I 
I ­
' 
' 




