
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 38: ISSUE 76 MONDAY, JANUARY 24,2005 

Hatch named Wake Forest president 
University provost to depart in July after nearly 30 years of service at Notre Dame 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 

The second-ranking ollicer in the Notre Dame administration will leave the University July 1 to become the president of Wake Forest University in Winston­Salem, North Carolina, the Wake Forest board of trustees announeed Friday. 
University Provost Nathan Hatch, who joined the Notro Dame faculty in 1975 and has oversmm its academic affairs as provost since 1996, will rnplacn Thomas llearn, Jr., to become Wake Fornst's 13th president. 
"It's not a job that I sought," I latch said. "W<~ think it's the right thing to do at this moment, but it's also painful because we have sueh strong feelings for Notre Dame and iL'> people." 
Wake Forest's presidential search committee chose llatch after meeting with him and his wife, Julie, in November and 
see HATCH/page 8 
Move affects transition in Offices of President, Provost 

By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
In a ynar in which top Univnrsity h1adnrship is alrnady changing hands -University I' r11s i<li1n t-o Inet Fath n r John .IPnkins will s u c c e e d 
. ·-·_ ..•, i 

University l'rnsidnnt 
....•....•...·.\¥

Father 1•: d w a r d Malloy on ::.~· i ~ r 
.July I University 
.a 

Provost 
Jenkins

Nathan Hatch's unnx­pnetnd deparlurn marks anoth­111' challenge for an administra­tion in transition. But I latch. !iS, said hn dons not anticipate con­tinuity problnms arising from his exit. 
"Not that individuals are unimportant, but I don't worry about Notre Dame at all," he said. "There's a lot to be done at Notre Dame to make sure thorn's a good transition ... but thn grnat 
thing about an institution like Notre Dame is that tho mission is very dear ... and I have tremendously high confi­

d0 nco in Affleck-Graves 
IJonkinsl to continue that." 
llateh said he will spend much of his remaining time at the Univnrsity doing his best to ensure continuity between the outgoing and incoming presi­
dents. "I hope the baton can be handnd off very well," he said. 
The state of the transition in Hatch's own position is less defi­nite. It is too early to tell whethnr a new or interim provost will be in place by the time Jenkins takes office, University spokesman Matt Storin said. 
Aceording to Notre Dame's aca­demie arti-

Mooney

c1es, a new provost must bn chosen through a dPtailed process, beginning with the University president asking the Academic Council to form a committee eomposed of live of its elected faeulty mmnbers and one of its student members. Chaired by the president, this eommittee then receives nomi­nations from the faculty, with additional nominations possible from the president and Notre Dame's Board of Trustees. Arter consultations within the com­mittee about potential candi­dates, the president reports the results to the Board, and offers a personal recommendation. The Board then elects the new provost. Jenkins will chair thn eommittee, Malloy said. 
There are no University speei­l'ications about who can bn nominated for provost, includ­ing the candidate's religion, Storin said. Hatch, the third provost since Notre Dame established the position in 1970, 
see MOVE/page 8 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Late SMC candidates rejected 

·Appeal to board is unsuccessful 
By ANGELA SAOUD Saint Mary's Editor 
Af't11r receiving word that tht~y would not bn allowed to run in the Saint Mary's stu­dent body presidential and vice presi­dential elections See Also Thursday 
"Saint Mary's
night, jun­
Election
i o r 
Katherino Candidates" Kelly and 
page6
froshman Lauren McCalistnr appnalnd tlw decision Friday morning to the Elections Appeal Board. only to bo turned down again. 
The pair approaelwd members of the Elnctions Committee last woek aftor the tickets running had bo11n finalized to soo if they would be allowed to run. The Elections Committee met Thursday night and deddnd that becausn Kelly and McCalister had missed the deadline, they would not bn allowed to do so. 
The Committee did not usn MeCalister's dass year as a factor, dnspite tho faet that the charter states any run­ning-mat£1 must be of a sec­ond-semester sophomoro status or higlwr. 
Elnct.ions Com missionor Anna Bauer said the dedsion was fair and is now final. 
"The appeal was l'ilnd Friday morning, and tilt• Elnctions Appnal Board mot Friday arternoon," Baunr said. "Afto r nHwti ng, tlw Eleetions Appeals Board votnd to uphold tho decision made by tlw Elections 
see ELECTI 0 N Ipage 8 





Peace Corps attracts graduates with promise of experience 
learning of a foreign languageBy KATE ANTONACCI 
through immersion, are well 
News Writer 

worth thn time. Though the averagn agn of a 
"Lif'n is calling. IIow far will voluntPnr is 2S, many dodde to you go?" In rnsponse to this join thn Peace Corps dirnctly out ehallengn from tim Peaee Corps, of eollnge, using it as a break studenL'i across the country have bnf'ore continued education or oll'nrnd ynars of thnir time and an opportunity to find direction energy to ad as ambassadors of for their futurn. peace and dP.velopment around Gino Signoraeci graduated the world. from Notre Dame in May and 
Tho Pe11cn Corps rnquirns two joined the Peace Corps in years of' service, but some argue Septmnber. lie is eurrnntly vol-that the benefits, such as stu­dent loan defermnnt and the see CORPS/page 8 

-------· 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Behind the curtain 
It was just a low-key Saturday after­noon, your average roommate excur­sion to Super Target, interrupted only by a frantic phone call from a friend in St. Ed's. 
"Hey, do you Maddie Hanna mind picking something up for News Production me? I really need Editor Herbal Essences shampoo and conditioner for normal to oily hair." 
The main point of this: my friend is a guy. As my roommate dashed back into the store to pick up the essential items, I couldn't help but sit there laughing in the car and wondering what had hap­pened to Mr. 2-in-1 Pert Plus, Mr. One­Bar-of-Soap. Does he really exist? Has the "average Joe" been replaced by the metrosexual? 
Determined to find my mountain man, I took a few inside tours, scouring the shower caddies of guys that I knew and guys that I didn't. I delved into a vast array of shampoos, conditioners, body washes and poufs. 
Yes, poufs. Also known as loofahs, or in the words of one St. Ed's freshman, "my scrunchie." 
This same freshman told me that he also uses Herbal Essences shampoo and conditioner, but two different scents -Rainforest Showers and Fruit Fusions. When I asked if this mix clashed, he said, ''I've had only positive responses." 
In another hanging shower organizer, I found Garnier Fructis shampoo, Old Spice Body Wash [yes, it really does exist] and Clearasil Foaming Facial Cleanser. The next group of products I examined contained COrea! Styling Gel, Nivea for Men face wash (apparently, the standard bar of soap just won't do) and again, the Old Spice Body Wash. 
And although some might be skepti­cal, Sheer Blonde shampoo "really works," according to another St. Ed's man. 
"Scent is a very important thing," an O'Neill freshman said. He alternates between two shampoos -L'Oreal Vive Daily Thickening and Head and Shoulders -because he likes the L'Oreal better, but is running out. In order to preserve the precious cleanser and optimally maintain his tresses, he uses the L'Oreal sparingly, especially on weekends. 
But although I've listed multiple prod­ucts that smack of femininity and defi­nitely break the mold of the male stereotype, I also found that guys are still, well, guys. My questions resulted in the following self-explanatory quotes: 
"I just use a bar of soap, except when my girlfriend visits. Then I use body wash." 
"I have no idea what kind of shampoo l use, just that it's in big bottles." 
"I use antiseptic soap. But body wash before parties when I want to smell nice for the ladies." 
So after this extensive and painstak­ing research, I have come to the conclu­sion that while trends may come and go, some things will never change ­namely, the male's simplified approach towards hygiene. But I do believe that guys should have the right to use what­ever products they choose, be it scented body wash or exfoliating loofahs, with­out being ostracized by society. 
After all, why should girls get to have all the fun? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, January 24, 2005 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHEN WILL YOU RUN OUT OF FLEX POINTS? 




Bailey Doyle  Carolyn White  Katie Reed  
senior off-campus  sophomore McGlinn  sophomore Farley  
"/ don't have any.  "Probably before Spring Break."  "Never."  

Author's book has clues to $1 million 
NEW YORK -There's an unclaimed $1 million out there-somewhere. 
The jackpot is actually 12 jewels hidden in very public places around the United States. Think diamonds, think rubies, think the rarest, most perfect Kashmir sap­phire. 
All you need to do to get any or all the gems is to deci­pher clues in the book "A Treasure's Trove." The clues lead to a dozen 18-karat gold tokens. Author Michael Stadther, who hid each of the tokens himself, promises that they are all in public places 
TODAY 
D:: 




Nick Curcio  Thomas Barr  Rebecca Mosca  
sophomore Knott  sophomore Knott  sophomore Pasquerilla East  
"/ only go to LaFortune to use the  "!already spent them all on this sweater/cap  "What do you think?"  

bathroom." 


"Masquerade," for which author Kit Williams hid a necklace made of rare gems and gold that was found in the English countryside three years later. 
"I studied fine arts and had a B.S. in math -I thought I could do this. But for me, one treasure wasn't enough. And the story had to outlast the treasure hunt," Stadther says. "Hopefully, 100 years from now, people will be looking for the 'jewels' in the story." 
So far, no one has claimed the real treasure. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
where they can be easily accessed without digging, moving or disturbing objects or structures. 
Once a token is in hand, it can be redeemed for one of the jewels. 
Stadther is releasing a clue not contained in the book for the first time this week: "Hint: Tackle repositories." 
"A Treasure's Trove: A Fairy Tale About Real Treasure for Parents and Children of All Ages" is the realization of the author's 25­year-old dream to create a puzzle sandwiched between the pages of a classic, time­less fairy tale. He was inspired by 1979's 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
1.&.1 
:I: 
~ 
1.&.1 

~ 
...J 
c( 
(,) 
0 

HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH
..... 
LOW LOW LOW LOW 





combo." 
IN BRIEF 

The Student Film Festival will run today, Tuesday and Wednesday at the Browning Cinema with showings at 7 
p.m. to 9 p.m. and 10 p.m. to midnight. Sponsored by the Department of Film, Television and Theatre, it fea­tures 18 short films. 
President of Farr Associates, Douglas Parr, will lecture on "Designing Sustainable Environments" today from 
4:30 to 5:30 p.m. in 104 Bond Hall. 
Lisa Mitchell of Columbia University will present "Martyrs in the Name of Language? Death and the Making of Linguistic Passion" today from 4:30 to 
5:30 p.m. in 119 O'Shaughnessy. 
The Career Center is spon­soring the annual Winter Career and Internship Fair in the JACC from 4 to 8 p.m. Wednesday. The event is open to students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Holy Cross College and other area col­leges and universities. It is preceded by a diversity recep­tion from noon to 2:30 p.m. in the JACC's Monogram Room. 
Anna Battigelli from the State University of New York, Plattsburgh, will present a lecture entitled "After the English Revolution: John Dryden, Roman Catholicism, and the Language of Providential Design" Wednesday from 4:30 to 5:45 
p.m. in 119 O'Shaughnessy. 

To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 


HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
Atlanta 39 I 23 Boston 22 I 12 Chicago 22 I 14 Denver 60 I 32 Houston 56 I 34 Los Angeles 7 4 1 52 Minneapolis 22 1 1o New York 24 I 14 Philadelphia 28 I 12 Phoenix 72 I 50 Seattle 56 I 46 St. Louis 30 I 23 Tampa 64 1 39 Washington 30 1 18 
-----------~---~-~-­
Monday, January 24, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
SMC develops new version of Ensler's play 
Students aim to open up discussion by putting Saint Mary's students' experiences on stage 
By MEG CASSIDY 
News Wril<'r 
l·:ve l~nslnr's famous and infamous Tho Vagina Monologues has lweomn syn­onymous with both tlw femi­nist revolution and controver­sially soxual suhjnc:t matler. llownver. with respnct to its <'ontinued popularity, individ­uals at Saint Mary's College have dneidnd t h a t t h n t i nw advisor to C!\.HI\, said, "lWei wanted to facilitate discus­sion about topics relevant to women's sexuality because of' tho dub's commitment to the goal of' raising awaronnss about issues rolatnd to sexual assault." 
Pittman and tho othnr C!\.HE members said thny have high hopos about what this projnet will do for the "personal and soda! growth or studc~nts ... 
Francis, 
also the 

h as c: o m e t o president of
"We encourage women to 
pn~snnt a rww C!\.HE. said
speak up. to write. to be
adaptation enthusiasm called SMC bold and adventurous, for the Monologues. project has
and that's what this 
For tho l'irst bonn eon­
project is all about " 
time in five stan t and years, Saint "more than Mary's stu-Catherine Pittman, nxpceted" dnnts, faculty ever since
CARE advisor 

and staff have put l·:nslnr's version asidn in lieu of' orw that will apply morn dirnctly to tlw CoJJnge <·ommunity. Tho project's co­<:oordinator, junior Ginger l:ran<:is, says a fresh look at l.lw subject matter will "bring tlw issues dosnr to homo." 
Tho Saint Mary's Campus 1\.llianen for Hapo 1\limination IC!\.HI~l is tlw main sponsor of llw event. performances or which will lw hold in Carroll Auditorium on Feb. 26 at 7 
p.m. and FPb. 27 at 2 p.m. 
The idea for this production <·anw about through informal conversations among C!\.HE nwmlwrs who said they want­ed to inspire tho community to heighten discussion on issues surrounding female sexuality. 
Catherine Pittman, psychol­ogy professor and faculty 
an e-mail announce­ment last wonk asked for individual submissions and porsonal participation. Since they hope to indude anyone intc~rested in lwlping, Francis said there will be no audition process, and pnopln arc encouraged to como fot·ward and volunteer 
in whatever way tht1y  want  
to.  
Thn  format  of  SMC  

Monologues will most liknly minor that of the successful Vagina Monologues, but because the submissions of personal reflections are still coming in, a selection process will need to take place before the speeif'ics can be estab­lished and rehearsed. Pittman said they arc hoping it will l?e a "communal process" in order to truly represent Saint Mary's as a whole. 
!\II of the personal subm is­sions are read anonymously and ean be Sl~nt as such. although some individual information is encouraged in ordnr to provide each vignette some context for the audience's understanding. Tho deadline for writing sub­missions is Jan. 28. 
In the past, The Vagina Monologues has been a source of controversy at Saint Mary's campus, when its per­formance was brief'ly forbid­den. Because of its more per­sonal nature, and this version may prove to be even more provocative. 
llowcver, Francis said they have received nothing but nneouragement and support from the entire community, and Pittman said she 
about but they haven't had the chance." Slw said the hope is that the performance will initiate good discussions and further awareness, with the possibilit'y of an open forum the following week to rcf'lect on the perl'ormancos. 
Francis said people have been contacting her continu­ously and she is thrillod with the community's rnsponsn and willingrH~ss to be involved. 
"I think this is something our campus needs," she said. 
Pittman agreed, and said, "Sometimes it is difficult f'or women to share their eon­corns, and as a result, women of'ten believe thny are alorw in their questions." 
Francis rneognized that thn 
original 
Monologuns 
hopes the might seem
"Sometimes it is difficult 
benefits of irrnlnvant to
for women to share their 
creating such s o m e a personal concerns. and as a result. women, but perspfletive her hopes
women (~{ten believe they 
with this per­for this pro­
are alone in their
formance will duction is be far-reach­questions." that "it's not ing. foreign " W h e n becausn it's
Catherine Pittman, 
women take a story about 
CARE advisor 
the risk to us and that's 
share their expnrionecs, they arc ol'ten surprised at the number of people who have had similar experiences or who want to provide sup­port and concern," Pittman said. "We encourage women to speak up, to write, to be bold and adventurous, and that's what this project is all about." 
Jennifer Hanlon, the vice president of CAHE, said this is a "topic people want to talk 
what  wi II  
make  it  so  
powerful."  

The excitement f'or the developing project has spread rapidly, and other campus groups have joined up as co­sponsors -including CWII., Student Diversity Board and Feminists United -making it what Pittman calls a trun "communal process." 
Contact Meg Cassidy at cass0593@saintmarys.edu 
page 3 
Charges filed in accident 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Associarc N<·ws Ediwr 
The Notro Damn studnnt police said was driving undnr the influnnco during an acd­dnnt Jan. Ih at Douglas and .Junipnr Hoads will f'acn mis­demeanor charges f'rom the St. Joseph County Prosecutor's ollkn, said ckrk Tracy Dnckor. 
Junior llelios MacNaught, 20, flipped his r<'d .lenp Chnrokee al'tnr driving into the median strip in tlw mid­din of' Douglas Hoad around 4 a.m., police said. Nnitlwr MaeNaught nor his passnn­gor. a Notrn Damn juniot' whoso namn and agn polico would not minas<~. was snri­ously injurnd. 
Because he has no prior DUI arrests, MacNaught's ollimse will be prosocutnd as a Class C misdemeanor, said Dockor. According to Indiana code, MacNaught can rnr.nivn a combination of' lines and community snrvien hours in addition to a 1XO-day li<~ensn suspension. 
Tlw Observer has hnnn unablo to contact MacNaught. 
At tho tim<~ of' the arddnnt, MacNaught's blood alcohol eontent was between 0.1 !i and O.X, according to Captain .John Gruszynski of tlw St. .Joseph County Policn. In Indiana, the lngal B!\.C limit fiw drivers ovnr 21 is O.OX. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.cdu 

Minority Engineering Progratn appoints nevv director 
Special to the Observer commitment to encourage stu­quite valuable for problem-solv­graduate and undergraduate Favila earned his bachelor's 
dents with diversl~ backgrounds ing professions, sueh as engi­students in peer mentor pro­degree in general engineering 
Tho College of' Enginoering at to become more fully engaged neering." grams, and worked as an advis­from the University of Illinois at thn Univorsity of' Notro Dame in what the college ofl'ers." Most recently, Favila was er to student chapters of the Urbana-Champaign and a mas­has appointnd Ivan Favila According to Favila, over the assistant dircetor of' the National Society of Black ter's degree in mechanical engi­diroctor of tho Minority next few months the M EP will Minority Engineering Engineers and the Soeicty of' neering from UIC. Hngirwnring Program (MEPI. lie focus on developing leadership Hecruitmcnt and Hetcntion Professional Engineers, as well The MEP was establishnd in joinnd the University in skills in students, building a Program at the University of as the student-run Minority 19X7 to encourage minority stu­l>ncnmbnr. community of engineering stu­Illinois at Chicago (UIC), where Engineering Design Team. dents in their pursuit of undor­
"I am 1~xeitod to bn part of' tho dmlts, developing engineering­he also served as direetor of the Favila also works with organ­graduate dngroes in nnginenr­Notrn Dame family and the related extracurricular activi­Cooperative Engineering izations such as the Center for ing. Although the primary activ­Ml·:l' as we continuo to work ties, and promoting academic Education Program. In addition the Advancement of Hispanies ities in the program arn aimnd toward addrossing thn undnr­excellence among all students. to advising students on aca­in Science and Engineering at reeruitmcmt and retention of l'Pprnsnntation of minorities "Creative solutions rise from demic, technical, interpersonal (CASIIEE). As a CASIIEE volun­students, leadership skills also studying and practicing engi­people who think differently," and professional issues, he teer, he has served as site are cultivated throughout thn IWPring at Notrn Dame," Favila he said. "Students from varied coordinated the Minority director for the Seienec, MEP via leetw·e series, work­said. "Minority enginnnring at othnieities, ancestries and Engineering Orientation course Teehnology, Engineering, and shops, student competitions, Notrn Damn is not a new pro­soeial conditions bring diverse and recruitment programs f'or Mathematics Institute of' scholarships, internships. and gram, but we are rnnnwing our ideas and solutions, which is pre-college students, supervised Chicago since 1995. career plaemnent aetivitins. 
Semester Around the World Program INFORMATIONAL MEETING--LAST CALL! Monday, January 24th, 6:oop.m. Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall, Saint Mary's OR Wednesday, January 26th, 6:15p.m. in Hesburgh Library Auditorium, ND Excellent academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin, India, focusing on the Asian world. 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements. Opportunity for travel and study in many countries of the Far East, Southeast Asia, South Asia, Eastern Europe and Western Europe. Semester Around the World Program (574)284-4468 or 4473, Fax (574)284-4866 or (574)273-5973 Email pullapil@saintmarys.edu; http:/jwww.saintmarys.edu 
..----~--~­
page 4 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, January 24, 2005 

~ . . ... . .· . >:·.. .. .··· ·, . :../::-\!if!;~~-:·· ..:.-· . ··~"*'~.. ·· ..·· ·:~'··< ·... . . . . ~:llf/···.·.· . >· .... ··. :...~-··~R~t~-:··>·: . }!/If. 
enter for a chance to wln '"a free1~trlp f~r you.. a.rt:f .a"fri>eri:(j ln our vacation sweepstakes*.you.. hf?ive priqtiti~~z~, an, amazingjicvac<ation· is one. of··them. whether it's at the beach.,, voJunteeri,ng. 'in the community, or on.. an adventure, the choice is yours. for offie.ial rules,,visit www~pwc.com/mypriorityvacation 

1
. No purchase necessary. 


2. 
Must be at least 18 years of age, a student attending this school and legal U.S. resident. 

3. 
Must enter by 2/22/05 at 11 :59 PM EST. 

4. 
See Official Rules at www.pwc.com/mypriorityvacation 


*connectedthinking 

© 2005 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. All rights reserved. "PricewaterhouseCoopers" refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (a Delaware limited liability partnership) or, as the context requires, other member firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. *connectedthinking is a trademark of PricewaterhouseCoopers UP (US). We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer. 


I 




ORLD & NATION 
Monday, January 24, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Sudanese face uncertain return 
Hl!MBI~K. Sudan -Elizabnth Adak Shindu paid a high pric11 to rnturn home. Shn walkod ror :w days, nrulun1d hunger and disnase and usnd up tlw last or lwr lifn savings. Whnn she linally rnadwd this sprawling, dusty town, slw round another family living on lwr land. 
Full of hopn, thousands likn Shindu have starll'd making their way baek to southern Sudan as Africa's loi1gnst running eivil war grinds to a haiL Tlwy aro returning to a land of tordwd villagns, farms riddlnd with land mirws, ransacknd schools and clinics -and littlt• help to bngin anew. 
More> than 4 million people flpd their honu•s during 21 ynars of lighting that lnfl this vast rPgion of grasslands, forests, moun­tains and swamps orw of the poorest in tho world. Somn round sanctuary in neighboring l'ountrins, but most havn bonn living in tho govnrnnwnt-lwld north wh1wn thoy makn up tho world's largnst displacml population. 
Suspect al-Qaida members arrested 
BI·:BI.IN -(;pr·man polico ar'l'ested two suspPetnd al-()aida members Sunday hnlinwd to havn ploltnd a suiddo attack in Iraq -with a sidn vPnturo in insurance rraud. taking out a poliey on tho suieide homhnr to us11 tlw morwy to fund tlw tnrror organization. 
Tlw rhinl' suspect, 21J-ynar-old Iraqi Ibrahim Mohanwd K., is also bPiilwed to havn trim( to obtain nnarly two ounces of uranium in Luxnmbourg. 
lin also "playnd a not unimportant role in al-<)aida, bneausn lw showed signs of contact with Osama bin Lad1m and mot with Han1Zi Binalshibh," orw of tho plotters of the Sept. I 1 t11rror attacks in thn Unitnd States, chief fndnral prosoeutor Kay Nohm told reporters. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Blizzard slows Northeast travel 
BOSTON -A howling blizzard slammed tlw Northeast on Sunday with more than 2 font of' snow and hurricane-strength wind gusts, halting air trav'el for thousands of' poo­pln, keeping othnrs ofl' slippnry highways and burying parkPd cars undnr donp drifts. 
Massachusetts (;ov. Mitt Homney and Hhodo Island (;ov. Don Careieri both doda rod statns of' PJHPrgnney. 
Up to 21J inehns of' snow fell north of' Boston, parts of' Nnw llampshire got 2 feet, Now York's Catskills collnctnd at least 20 inrlws and IS indws fell on parts of' Conrwrticut. Nnw .Jnrsny, Hhodn Island and tho oastmn tip of' New York's Long Island. Thn wnatlwr systnm had earlier pilml a foot ol' snow a1~ross parts of' Wisconsin, Michigan, lnd ian a and nortlwrn Ohio. 

Church celebrates prolife mission 
BOUI.I>I·:Il, Colo. -A Homan Catholic rlrurc:lr hurind l.lrn ashns of hundrods of aborted 1'1~tuses Sunday, a day aller the 32ml anniv1~rsary of tlw U.S. Suprnme Court ded­sion that madP abortion legal. drawing criti­l'ism that tlw church was exploiting women's grinI' to make a politi1~al statement. 
A rrowd of 250 parishioners prayed as the aslws worn buri1~d in the Saered Heart of Mary Church CIH11Ptery, while a handful of' protesters gatlrnrPd nearby holding signs that mad, "This dnrrrh is a gravn robbnr." 
LOCAL NEWS 
Former caseworker found f!Uilty 
INIJIANAI'OI.IS -.Jurors found former Marion County child Wl~lf'arn casnworknr l>nnisn C. Moorn guilty of' obstruction of'jus­tien latn Saturday. ending a weeklong trial that nxposnd gaping l'laws in tho system that cares for abused and neglected chil­drPn. 
Tlw jury dolibPr·ated for 10 hours bnf'ore returning its vnrdict, making Moore the lirst caseworker in Indiana to be eonvietod ol' a felony for on-the-job failures. 
Thn jury found Moore not guilty of two morn serious charges of' neglect. 
Former king of night life dies 

'Tonight Show' host Johnny Carson dies of emphysema in Malibu home 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES-.Johnny 
Carson, the quick-witted 
"Tonight Show" host who 
bneame a national institu­
tion putting his viewnrs to 
bed for 30 years with a 
smooth nightcap of 
eelebrity. banter and 
heartland charm. died 
yesterday. lie was 71J. 

Carson died early yes­
tnrday morning, according 
to his nephew, Jef'l' 
Sotzing. "He was sur­
rounded by his family, 
whose loss will be 
immeasurable," Sotzing 
told Tho Associatnd Press. 
lin did not provide fur­
thor details, but NBC said 
Carson died of emphysema 
at his Malibu home. 

Tlw boyish-looking 
Nebraska native with the 
disarming grin, who sur­
vived every attempt to top­
ple him from his late-night 
talk show throne, was a 
star who managml never 
to distance himscll' from 
his audinnee. 

llis woalth, the adora­
tion of his guests -partic­
ularly the many young 
eomics whose eareers he 
launched -thn wry tales 
of multiple divorens: 
Carson's air of modesty 
made it all serve to 
enhance his bedtime inti­
macy with viewers. 

"lleeeeere's Johnny!" 
was the booming on 'The Tonight Show' and career zenith and his "I just let the work 
announcement from side­my professional life con­finale, withdrawing into a speak for itself." he told 
kick Ed McMahon that tinued, whenever a big quiet retirement that suit­Esquire magazine in 2002. 
ushered Carson out to the career dneision needed to ed his private nature and Carson did find an out.lnt 
stage. Then the formula: bn made, I always got thn refusing involvement in for his creativity: lin wrote 
the topical monologue, the OK from 'The Boss."' other show business proj­short humor pieces for 
guests, the broadly played Carson's personal life ects. The New Yorknr maga­
skits such as "Carnac the could not match the per­In 1993, ho explained zine, including "Heenntly 
Magnificent." fection of his career. his absnnce from the lime­Diseovnrnd Childhood 
But America never tired Carson was married four light. Letters to Santa," whieh 
of him; Carson went out Limns, divorced three. In "I have an ego liko any­purportnd to givn the 
on top when he retired in 191J1, one of his three body else," Carson told youthful wish lists of 
May 1992. sons, 31J-year-old Ricky, The Washington Post, "but William Bucklny, l>on 
McMahon said Sunday was killed in a ear acci­I don't need to be stoked Hickles and others. 
that Carson was "like a dent. by going before the public Carson made his debut 
brother to me." Nearly all of Carson's all the Limn." as "Tonight" host in 
"Our 34 years of work­professional life was spent Carson spent his n~tire­October 19h2 and quickly 
ing together, plus the 12 in tnlevision, from his ment years sailing, travel­won ovnr audinncns. lin 
years since then, created a postwar start at Nebraska ing and socializing with a <wnn made lwadlines with 
friendship which was pro­stations in the late 1940s few close friends including such clever ploys as the 
fossional, family-like and to his three deeadns with media mogul Barry Diller 1969 on-show marriagn or 
one of respect and great NBC's "Tho Tonight Show and NBC executive Bob necnntric singer Tiny Tim 
admiration," MeMahon Starring Johnny Carson." Wright. lie simply ref'usml to Miss Vicki, which won 
said in a statement. Carson choosn to let to bo wooed back on the show its biggest-nvnr 
"When we ended our run "Tonight" stand as his stage. ratings. 
IRAQ 


Terrorist declares war on democracy 
Saturday on a security patrol in eoro of' the insurgeney, will dnf'y rnbPI 
Associated Press 
Mosul, tho U.S. command said threats and tlwir dergy's calls l'or a 

BAGIIDAD-The U.S. ambassador Sunday. boycott and partidpatn in substantial to Iraq acknowledged serious prob­U.S. and Iraqi officials l'<~ar morn numbers. lems ahead or next weekend's elec­such attacks in the run-up to Failure of signilkant numbers of tion but assured on Sunday that Sunday's eleetion and have Sunnis to participatn would call into "great el'f'orts" were being made so announced massive security meas­question the legitimacy of tlw nnw every Iraqi ean vote. In an audiotape ures to protect votnrs. Iraqis will Iraqi leadership, widnning tho gull' posted on the Web, a speaker claim­choose a 275-seat National Assmnbly among the country's ethnic and rnli­ing to be Iraq's most fearnd terrorist and provincial councils in Iraq's 1 S gious groups and setting the stage l'or declared "lierce war" on democracy, provinces in the first nationwide bal­oven more turmoil. raising the stakes in the vote. loting since the ouster of Saddam "The Iraqis will be -will be just 
Hebels who have vow11d to disrupt 1Iuss1~in in 2003. !'inn," Seeretary of State nominee tho balloting blew up a designated Large turnouts are expeeted among Condoleezza HicP told reportnrs polling station near Ilillah south of Iraq's majority Shiite Muslims in tho Sunday at the Whit11 !louse. Baghdad and stormed a police station south and minority Kurds in the "They're starting a process and this in Hamadi west of the capital, author­northeast. But the big question is is an important stnp, a lirst stnp l'or ities said. A U.S. soldier was killed whether Sunni Arabs, who form the them in this democratie process." 
.; 


page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 24, 2005 

Michelle Fitzgerald and Lauren Siegel Who are they? 

Michelle Fitzgerald is a junior political science and religious studies double major. She was the sophomore class president last year, and co-coordinated the Saint Mary's Constitution. Lauren Siegel is a junior English Writing and Economics major. She is currently serving as the Student Activities Board Marketing co-chair. 
+Fun Facts: Fitzgerald admits to being obsessed with Bon Jovi. She said she requests "Living on a Prayer" at every on campus event with music. Siegel once hid in a laundry basket during an in class Shakespeare dramatization of "The Merry Wives of Windsor." 
+ Notable Quote: "We've both looked at this, and we've made sure we're going to have the time. This goes beyond an extracurricular, we see this a job, and that's how we are approach­ing this." -Michelle Fitzgerald 
In their words... 

+Top Priority: Having a strong connection with the student body, and working to represent all stu­dents through their leadership positions. 
+First Priority: Creating an open forum at the end of each of their BOG meetings so students would be able to come speak openly to them in order to express ideas or concerns. This would be available at every BOG meeting. 
In our words: 

Fitzgerald and Siegel truly want to listen to the student body through open forums and at community events by making themselves available and approachable. Their entire platform is solid, relying on creating an open student government can involve anyone. The running mates want to create a space to address student concerns, pro­vide a personal, visible and always available student government, establish an all inclusive Saint Mary's identity and increase support of all on campus activities. 
The women seem to take this job seriously, and have taken the time to meet with over 100 students to see what they would like to see in a student government. By doing this, they have found students from all walks of life with all different opinions, giving them a platform that encompasses the College's vision, not just their own. 
While Fitzgerald and Siegel may have an unrealistic expectation set for themselves by wanting to attend all campus events, they are proving that they plan to be a well known presence on campus. 
Bottom Line: 

Fitzgerald and Siegel are the most capable ticket. They have taken the time to find out what others on campus need and want in a student government by seeking advice from those outside the organization. While Siegel is relatively new to student government and Fitzgerald was abroad in the fall of 2004, this has only helped their ticket by allowing them to take a step back from the student government world, allowing them to determine what they truly need to do to lead the College to a strong and connected future. These women are ready to lead Saint Mary's, and they have proven it in their concrete ideas and upbeat attitude. 
Kellye Mitros and Susan Mcllduff Who are they? 
Kellye Mitros is a junior humanistic studies major. She is currently the junior class treasurer. Susan Mcllduff is a sophomore business and mass communications double major. She is currently Chief of Staff to Sarah Catherine White and is an SAC repre­sentative in addition to being on the SGA Executive Board. 
+Fun Facts: Mitros went spelunking, or cave exploring, over semester break in Costa Rica. Mcllduff is not afraid to wear her one piece footsie pajamas around the dorm or when hanging out with friends. 
+Notable Quote: "Through two years of involvement, we have seen some of the problems within BOG that we would like to work on for the future and we think we are the people to get that job done." -Susan Mcllduff 
In their words... 
+Top Priority: Focusing on the history of the College and showing a dedication to the women who started Saint Mary's by highlighting the important parts of the College's history. 
+ First Priority: Appointing a health and wellness commissioner and finding more ways to make health and wellness productive and more applicable to students who are in need of their services. 
In our words... 
Mitros and Mcllduff have good intentions in wanting to promote greater diversity on campus and a greater appreciation for the history of Saint Mary's, but they don't have concrete ideas as to how to go about completing these tasks. However, they recognize that BOG and students seem divided currently and would like to work on reconnecting the groups by having more activities. They would also like to ~t President Carol Mooney more involved with the BOG because they feel the current administration has fallen away from those meetings. 
While the women seem serious about the task at hand, they only spoke with those already in BOG and friends of theirs as opposed to speaking to those they claim they want to help when drawing up their platform. Mitros and Mcllduff are well inten~ tioned, but don't have many concrete plans to get their administration off the ground. They need to reevaluate their top priorities and focus on making the College campus better as a whole, not just on a few specified fronts. 
Bottom Line: 
While their enthusiasm is commendable, the ticket doesn't seem to have a clear pic­ture of what taking on Saint Mary's in the current disconnected state between students and student government is going to take. Both said they want to help further the con­nection with the new administrators, but don't necessarily have the plans to back it up. While Mitros spoke of things she felt were wrong with the current administration, she did not try to explain her running mate's lack of helping the current administration in her Chief of Staff position to help establish these practices. This ticket has too broad of a focus and when they do narrow the focus, it doesn't appear to be on the right things. 

THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Monday, January 24, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
10,392.99 -78.48
}ones , 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,574 173 ~ 1,657,385,088 
AMEX 1,414.58 +8.82 NASDAQ 2,034.27 -11.61 NYSE 6,9<.J6.56 -13.91 S&PSOO I, 167.87 -7.54 NIKKEI(Tokyo) II ,23X.37 -46.40 FTSE IOO(London) 4,X03.30 +2.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR SER I (QQQQ)  -0.80  -0.30  37.05  
SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI)  +5.23  +0.29  5.83  
EBAY INC (EBAY)  +3.26  +2.72  86.05  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -1.69  -0.31  18.0 I  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.71  -0.16  22.42  


30-YEAR BOND -026 -0.12 46.43 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.60 -0.25 41.40 5-YEARNOTE -1.03 -0.38 36.39, 3-MONTH BILL -0.22 -0.05 23.02 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) + 1.22 48.53 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) +4.30 422.60 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.38 93.73 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 02.8200 EURO 0.7663 POUND 0.5325 CANADIAN$ 1.2216 
IN BRIEF 
Judge OK's Trump's financial adviser 
CAMDEN, N . .J.-Donald .1. Trump's casino 1:ompany won a small victory in bankruptcy court Friday, when a judge said the company's tinancial advisor could serve as an expert wit­Iwss. 
U.S. Bankruptey Court Judge .Judith Wizmur rejertnd a plea from Trump llotels &. Casino Hnsorts sharnholdnrs who had arguod conflict­of'-intnrnst problnms should bar a UBS S1wurities I.U: nxerutive from testifying at a FPI>. 3 !waring. 
Tlw shandwldnrs' lawynrs had contended that UBS isn't truly a "disint1~n1stnd" party and tlwrdore UBS nxecutive director .1. Soron Heynertson could not serve as an independent I'Xpnrt witness in the rase. UBS owns some Trump bonds, servnd as underwriter for oth­ers and stands to get more business from tho rompany wlwn it emerges from bankruptcy. 
Wizmur callml the concerns legitimate, but ruled in favor of' Trump llotols after its altor­nny and rnprnsnntativns of the bondholders said the disqualification of UBS would delay the 1:asn's progrnss and cause unduo hardship for Trump by forcing tho eompany to rnplacn UBS with a financial advisor unfamiliar with tlw situation. 
Delta sets industry record for year 
1\TI./\NT/\ -Delta 1\ir Linos Inc. blamed high f'uol !Jf'iees, low farns and hefty charges as it roportnd the worst annual finandal per­formance in the industry's history on Thursday, culminating with a $2.2 billion fourth-quarter loss. 
Continontal Airlines lne. eitnd similar diffi­culties and posted a smallor-than-expeetod $20(, million loss, bringing cumulativo fourth quarter lossns rnportnd so far by five large 
U.S. airlinns to $3.17 billion. 
!\ year narlinr tho same live carriers, which include 1\mnrican, Northwnst and Southwest, rnportnd a combined fourth quarter prolit of $:l:l million. Thn soaring cost of jet fuel was a hugn drain on the industry in 2004, undermin­ing the growth in passenger traffk as well as rarrinrs' nfl'orts to roduco labor expenses. 
1>1~lta shams plungnd 58 ecnts, or IJ.H p!lr­eent. to dose at $5.37 in Thursday trading on tho Nnw York Stock Exchange. 

Southern icon Krispy Kreme falls 
Plummeting stock and corporate scandal taint the success of this doughnut business 
Associated Press 

WINSTON-S/\LEM, N.C. -Hoy Blount Jr. know something was wrong at his beloved Krispy Krome -long bllf'oro tho stoek prico bngan to plummnt and the seont. of corporate scandal lilled thn air. 
When the North Carolina company opnncd its first doughnut shop in New York City, thn Georgia-born humorist rushed right down to sen how his f'avoritn boyhood treat fared in that Northern clime. Bathnd in the red­noon glow of' the familiar "llot Doughnuts Now" sign, ho ate five of' the signature glaznd in one sitting and couldn't wait to tell his f'nl­low Gothamites of their good f'ortuno. 
"When Krispy Krnmes arn hot," hn wrote in the Snpt. 8. 1996, odition of' the Nnw York Timns Magazine, "thoy are to other dough­nuts ":.hat angels are to poople. 
Somo time later, after Krispy Krome had become tho darling of Wall Street and the fad food du jour on IIBO's "Sex and the City", Blount was strolling on Manhattan's East Side when the red the sign beekoned. The guy behind the counter handed him a cold doughnut; Blount togethers, the pain runs ed in Peoria with $25, a By November, Hudolph protested. much deeper. Pontiac loaded with frying was selling 1,000 dozen 
The server admitted his "It's the classic story of and rolling equipment. and doughnuts a week at 25 manager had told him to the country girl that comes a secret potato flour-and­eents a dozen. Things wnrn leave thn sign on all the to the city," Blount said. yeast-basnd recipe. IIn was going so wnll that he'd time. "You think anything that standing on a street corner already obtained business 
"Something in my heart sweet eouldn 't get in trou­when he pulled a park of licnnsns to sell in Charlotte, broke just a little bit," the ble. Camel cigm·ettes out of his and had designs on Halnigh (J3-year-old transplant said "But, of course, anything pocket and noticed where and Durham. with a sigh roeently. that sweet WILL got in they were manufactured. Hudolph's business was 
To investors and analysts, trouble." "Why not Winston­gnarnd toward the wholn­Krispy Kreme's woes are a No lesser institution than Salem'!" the Paducah, Ky., saln tradn. But when black spot on the portfolio. the Smithsonian has native thought. "/\ town passnrs-by bngan stopping !\ federal securities probe, declared Krispy Kreme a with a company producing to ask for fresh doughnuts, allegations of padded sales "Southern icon." But if the a nationally advertised Hudolph knockml a twin in ligures and this past week's rents hadn't been so high produet has to be a good thn wall and bngan selling ouster of CEO Seott in Peoria, Ill., we might be bet." dirnct.ly to customnrs. Livengood have tainted talking about that H.udolph used the last of' By tho 11Jh0s, the compa­what had been a sweet "Northern icon." his money to rent a tiny ny had developed an 1\meriean success story. According to company brick storefront across the assmnbly-linn system that 
But to Southerners for legend, Vernon Carver street from Salem Academy automated tho making of whom a hot Krispy Krome H.udolph was looking for a and College. lie had to bor­doughnuts in every store, a is part of a f'ond childhood place to open his own row the 1noney for his lirst procnss so mnsmnrizing it memory of visits to doughnut shop in the sum­batches of !lour, eggs, pota­was evnntually put on dis­Grandma and church get-mer of 1937 when he land-toes and yeast. play for custonwrs. 

Super Bowl ads to be toned-down 
Th~t ad and others aired du~ing last In it, a fathnr tries to def'lnet a
Associated Press 

years game caused concern m some request from his daughter to share his 
NEW YOHK-1\s in years past. quarters that advertisers had gone too Emerald nuts by saying that if ho dons, many Super Bowl advertisers are far in using ribald humor to grab the unicorns will disappear forever. !\ guarding the sm~rccy of their 30-sec­attention of the young, male audiences mom1mt latnr, a unieorn strides into ond spots with the zeal of a Kremlin that marketers try so desperately hard the living room and ehidns tho nut­intelligence operative. Even so, one to reach. hoarding parnnt: "1\h, that's not true, thing seems certain: Gas-passing hors­Goodby said advertisers are mueh Jack." Santa Claus and tho Easter es, croteh-biting animals and acciden­more eautious this year. Bunny also chime in beforn Dad hands tal bikini wax treatments will be "Everybody knows where the line is, over the nuts. nowhere in sight. and I don't think it will be crossed," he Fox, whkh is broadcasting thn Fob. 
Just ask advertising executive Jeff said. (J game, is asking $2.4 million for each Goodby, whose l'irm created the "It's implicit in the process that half-minute ad this ynar, up slightly Budweiser spot last year in which a you're not going to get your elient in from last ynar's $2.3 million rate. Fox draft horse spoiled a romantic evening trouble this year." said it has sold about IJ5 pnrnmt of tho fi.1r a young couple riding in a hansom Goodby's San Francisco-based firm, ad space this year. cab. Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, is pro­Most advertisers are kenping their 
"This year, I think most advertisers ducing a spot for Emerald snack nuts spots under loek and key, hoping to are going to be incredibly well­that will be a far cry from the horse crnate a sense of antieipation and behaved," he said. ad. mystery. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 24, 2005 
unsure exactly what I want to do," announced that they will be send­for an interview on campus, which said Bergen. "I am hoping that ing 30 members of the Crisis certainly helped a lot," said 
Move

Corps 

this experience will cement my Corps made up of Returned Peace Bergen. "One of my references goals further." Corps Volunteers (RPCV's) to was a woman I volunteered for 
continued from page 1continued from page 1 

Though fears sparked by the Thailand to help. I think some­here at SMC for orientation activi­recent tsunami could hurt the thing like 273 RPCV's have ties. Other than that, it's pretty 
was the first Protestant to unteering in a small town in Peace Corps' application numbers, already called in ofl'ering to help, individualistic." 
serve as provost. Ukraine. at this time it has only seemed to with 70 of those being RPCV's The Peace Corps began in 1960, 
The Office of the Provost "Being in the Peace Corps is a propel tl1e volunteer effort. from Thailand," said Reilly. "The under the leadership of then­
is no stranger to quick better way to experience all the "Of all the countries affected by head of the Peace Corps has not Senator John E 
turnover. Last spring, it ins and outs of a foreign country the recent tsunami, the Peace ruled out sending the Crisis corps Kennedy, who pushed college 
found itself nearly bare than any I could have imagined, Corps only had volunteers in one to the other affected countries. students to serving the nation in 
after its three then-vice as someone who has recently -Thailand. I think there were 83 Because the RPCV's are fluent in the cause of peace. In 1961, his 
president and associate ~,rraduatod from college and can't people there, all accounted for," the language and know the area, idea developed into a federal 
provosts Jenkins, just catapult to a position where I Reilly said. "Sri Lanka and they will be able to provide imme­agency devoted to the mission of 
Executive Vice President can help people on a large scale," Indonesia used to have Peace diate relief." world peace. According to the 
.John Affleck-Graves and Signoracci said. Corps volunteers, but for different Signoracei suggested that those Peace Corps Web site, in that last 
Saint Mary's President Junior Anne-Michelle Reilly is reasons they are no .longer host inspired to help tsunami-afl"eeted 45 years, more than 170,000 vol­
Carol Mooney -left their working with the National Peace countries." countries try a diiierent approach unteers have traveled to 137 
positions there. Corps A'iSociation as an advocacy Many Peace Corps members than joining the Peace Corps. countries to help people of inter­
"Certainly losing the three intern while studying in think that their role is more "Volunteer safety comes before ested countries in meeting their 
people there, I feared what Washington D.C. f(>r the semester. important now in the tsunami­all else in the Peace Corps, and needs for trained men and 
that would mean," llatch "I think the Peace Corps is a stricken areas than before. really you can't teach English in women, promote a better under­
said. "But the tree people great organization that is grossly "My thoughts have not changed schools if the schools have all been standing of Americans and pro­
that came in have been so under-funded. They arc one of the at all. I am currently nominated to destroyed," he said. "From my mote and better understand of 
terrific, it hasn't been as few U.S. Government. organiza­serve in South America, but I point of view, if you're thinking of other peoples. 
bad ... I feel very blessed tions that is respected worldwide, would not be opposed to serving in joining the Peace Corps, consider Signoracci said that the benefiL'i 
there." mostly because the goal of the Asia," said Bergen. "If anything, taking an extra step and going as of the life-changing experience 
Jean Ann Linney, program is to present to the world the tsunami has strengthened my a relief worker to India, Thailand, outweigh the dangers that dis­
Christine Maziar and a positive view of America," Reilly resolve to join. America is an Sri Lanka, or Indonesia [insteadJ. suade many interested volunteers 
Dennis Jacobs were hired said. "Bush promised to double incredibly lucky country and J You could make an even bigger from joining. 
as vice president and asso­the number of volunteers to believe it's time to narrow the gap difl"erence there." "[ know it's heart-stopping to 
ciate provosts last summer. 14,000 and he proposed a budget between developed and underde­Notre Dame plays an important think that you might go to serve in 
Hatch said he expects them increase of 20 percent last year, veloped countries, which holds role in directing those interested the Peace Corps and a natural dis­
to remain in their current but Congress reduced that signifi­true even more so after the disas­in working with or for Peace aster or political uprising might 
roles once a new provost is cantly." ter." Corps to the right contacts. occur," he said. "But every breath 
hired. Lyndsey Bergen, a senior at Though few Peace Corps host "I found out about the intern­is a risk." 
"I think there's some sta­Saint Mary's, is hoping to enter the · countries were affected by the ship through the career center," 
bility there," Hatch said. Peace Corps following graduation. tsunami, the organization is still Reilly said. "I hope to someday work in offering aid. "I go to Saint Mary's, but Notre Contact Kate Antonacci at 
Contact Claire Heininger at international politics, but am still "The Peace Corps just Dame has facilitated the chance kantonac@nd.edu 
cheining@nd.edu 



Election 
continued from page 1 
Committee. In accordance with the Student Government Association constitution, this decision cannot be appealed." 
The Elections Appeal Board members' identities are kept confidential, and known only to Bauer, student body president Sarah Catherine White and their faculty advisor. Bauer said the board is made up of five mem­bers, one from each of the exec­utive boards on campus. 
And while they are disappoint­ed that they cannot run in this election, neither Kelly nor McCalister plan to stop working with Board of Governance. 
"I want to continue the work I've done with the Identity Forums including advocating for diversity training on campus and working with the new Women's Resource Center," Kelly said. "The BOG is made up of dedicated women students who amaze me, and I know it will continue that way." 
Additionally. Kelly said she plans to go out and encourage students to vote Tuesday for the best candidates for the job. 
"I support both candidates because they are strong women, strong leaders," Kelly said. "However, if 51 percent of the voters choose to abstain, there can be a new election held, and you just never know." 
But Bauer said the situation has brought to the surface some issues that will need to be looked at when reassessing the constitution after new leader­ship takes charge. 
"Every year BOG appoints a Constitution Committee in order to review the current proceed­ings we have in place," Bauer said. "Students are able to peti­tion BOG to change current rules or statutes, and we can also bring our concerns to the table. I wiJl take this to BOG and we will actively review it in order to see if amendments need to be made." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 


Hatch 
continued from page 1 
January, according to a press release on the Wake Forest Web site. Hearn, who began serving as president in 1983, had announced his retirement last April. 
"It was clear from the moment we identified him as a prospective candidate that Dr. Hatch did not simply possess the qualities and experience we were seeking, but that he is a genuine role model of the teacher-scholar, a highly-val­ued ideal at Wake Forest," said Murray Greason, Jr., chairman of Wake Forest's board of trustees and of the presidential search committee, according to the press release. 
With an enrollment of 6,500 students, Wake Forest is smaller than Notre Dame, but has an environment very similar to the University's, Hatch said. 
The school's religious roots (it was founded as a Baptist institu­tion but became self-governing in the 1980s), commitment to foster­ing a deep sense of community identity and dedication to an aca­demic-athletic balance created a sense of "symmetry" with Notre Dame, Hatch said. 
"It's an ecumenical environ­ment ... that takes faith, learning, intellect and character seriously," he said. 
Presiding over a similar inter­play at Notre Dame proved to be Hatch's most significant challenge and biggest accomplishment dur­ing his years as provost, he said. 
"Holding together in creative tension aspects that can pull on each other ... not letting one thing overwhelm another ... is part of Notre Dame's complex mission," he said, listing improved research, superior undergraduate education, more attention to diversity and main­taining the school's Catholic char­acter as key components of that mission. 
University President-elect Father John Jenkins, who worked under Hatch for four years as vice president and associate provost until he was named president-elect April 30, issued a statement thanking Hatch for being a "wise, humane, and nurturing supervi­sor from whom I learned much." 
"Notre Dame owes a tremen­dous debt of gratitude to Nathan for years of truly distinguished service to the University," down from the presidency June 30, also praised Hatch's service to the University. 
"Nathan is a person of deep faith and strong academic achievement," Malloy said in a statement. "I have come to admire his integrity and high moral standards, his skill as an articulate spokesperson for the University, his capacity for build­ing consensus, and his ability to create a productive and support­ive work environment." 
Malloy's and Jenkins' state­ments also wished I latch and his wife success at Wake Forest. 
Hatch, who grew up in Columbia, S.C., and whose family has roots in North Carolina, earned his bachelor's degree from Wheaton College in Illinois and his master's and doctoral degrees from Washington University in St. Louis. At Notre Dame, he was the associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters from 1983-88 and served as aet­ing dean in 1988-89. He was also elected as the University's vice president for graduate studies and research in 1989 before tak­ing over as provost. He is also eurrently the Andrew V. Tackes Professor of History. 
He and Julie have three chil­dren: Gregg, a 1997 graduate of Notre Drune; David, a 2000 grad­uate of Notre Dame; and Beth, a current sophomore at the University. 
Between now and July 1, Hatch said he will strive to balance the two presidential transitions with which he is now engaged. 
"I think one has to do both appropriately," he said, adding that this period is "bittersweet." 
"We've been at Notre Dame a long time," Hatch said. "Notre Dame is a marvelous place [that] we love deeply and has a fantas­tic mission and an array of talent­ed, committed people, many of whom are close, close friends." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 

Jenkins' statement continued. .-------------------------....,.
"He is a scholar of the first rank, who, as an administrator, has consistently shown a commitment to excellence and an ability to identify and attract outstanding scholars and academic leaders. He has tirelessly fostered the University's distinctive Catholic identity, and under his leadership Notre Dame has made remark­able progress." 
University President Father Edward Malloy, who will step 
r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·,

Now leasing quality houses 
close to campus for the 2005/6 and 2006/7 school years. 
Call Sean at 

Anlan Properties
57 4-532-1895 
L--·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~ 



Students 
Fly Cheaper 
spring break, study abroad & more 
Sample roundtrip Student Airfares from South Bend to: 
Washington, D.C.  $124  Mexico City  $288  
·'':!!:m~w··  New York  $150  London  $327  
Fort Lau-derdale -$194  -­_; ··~·;,;'"?;;;~~ Rome  -$425  
····  Angeles<~!.~208  Sydney  $1308  

Visit StudentUniverse.com for cheap student airfares on major airlines to 1 ,000 destinations across the US and around the world. 
Monday, January 24, 2005 The Observer+ NEWS page 9 
UKRAINE 
Yushchenko to 'stand against evil' 
Associ;~ ted l'rcss 
Kl HV -Bofor11 a vast crowd of supportnrs celebrating wilh a hurst of orangn balloons, doves and chants, nnwly inauguratnd l'rnsidnnt Viktor Yushrhenko promisnd Sunday to st•Hw a new roursn for Ukrainn -away l'rom corruption and political cronyism and into thn l(uropnan Union. 
"Ukrainn will stand against all nvil," Yushrlwnko told thn rrowd on Kinv's lndepPndnncn Squarn, whnre wnnks earlier demonstrators crind out that lw'd bonn roblwd of tho prnsi­dnncy by fraud in a campaign larnd with intriguo that ovr.n saw tlw pro-WnstPrn rnl'ormor poisonPd hy a huge dose of dioxin. 
YushrhPnko, his fac(l still pock markml from tho nnar-l'at.al poisoning in Sopternbnr, eallPd his inauguration narlinr in tho day a victory of' frnndom over tyranny and said tlw formnr SoviPI. statn is "now in th~1 cnn­tPr of' l·:uropn." 
Many in tlw crowd. ost.imatnd at morn than 100,000, had tnars in tlwir Pyns. Thny sang tho national anthem and rnpnatndly interrupted the nnw prnsidnnt's spooch with chants of' "Yu-shehen-ko" and "llurrah." 
"My heart is l'illnd with the brightest feelings, my soul is rnjoieing," said Nadia Lovok, a 42-yoar-old doetor in the crowd. 
Thn inauguration eaps a two­month political crisis in Ukraine, during whieh hun­dreds or thousands protestnd in Kir.v's strents for weeks against a fraud-tainted Nov. 21 election that orl'ieials said Yushehonko lost. That vote was ovPrturned by the Supreme Court, and Yuschenko won a Dee. 26 repeat, defeating the pro­Moscow prime minister, Viktor Yanukovyeh. 
But thn deep political divide the new president will continue to face was visihle during the swearing in at a solemn cere­mony in the Verkhovna llada parliament. After Yushchenko took tho oath -placing his hand on a copy of thn constitu­tion and on an antique Bible ­some dnputies eheen~d and chanted his name, but others stood stonily, not applauding. 
Even in Independnnce Square, where many chanted and rojoieed, some expressed fear that Yushchenko may faee difli­eultins in f'ullilling his electoral promises. 
"Yushchenko has yet to score his main victory in the east of Ukraine," said Andriy Koloto, a 29-year-old teacher who came to Kiev from the mostly Hussian-speaking cast where Ya.nukovych rneeivod the most support. 
Supporters of Yanukovych, who was backed by the Kremlin, grouped togetlwr on the square to wave white-and­blue flags, the candidate's cam­paign colors. They chanted "Shame! Shame!" as Yushehenko spoke. 
Nestor Shufrieh, a prominent Yanukovyeh ally, was attacked on the square, the Unian news agency reported, adding that one person was arrested. 
Yushehonko insistt~d that Ukraine's place "is in the European Union. My goal is Ukraine in a united Europe. Our road into the future is the road on which a united Europe is headed." 

Detroit mayor faces controversy 
Politician feels heat over financial problen1s and $25,000 SUV 
Assodatcd Press 
I>I•:TBOIT-With his dty tnn­u~ring above a financial abyss, Mayor 1\wanw Kilpatriek went bnf'ore television viewers this month and delivornd sornP gravP nPws: lie had no choice hut to lay off rwarly 700 city workPrs and cut sPrviePs. This was no time for wanton spnnd­ing, hn said. 
Days latnr, Kilpatrick round his own SJWIHiing under attack wlwn a local tPinvision station r•~portPd that tho city just sigrwd a $2!'i,OOO lnaso for a Lincoln Navigator for Kilpatrick's wifn -a fact. tho mayor at lirst denind but (WPn" tually conlirnwd. 
Tlu• Navigator story snow­balled af'tnr Kilpatrkk's body­guard shoved a TV reportor against a wall. It was just tlw latest in a snriPs of allngations I hat tlw :{4-yPar-old f'omwr col­In go football playnr has usnd 1·ity rPsourc:Ps to nnharu:o his JlPrsona))if'n. 
1\ilpat.rirk. a lirst.-tnrrn mayor f'acing an nlndion this ycmr, has won praisn for his willingnnss to confront tlw dtv's $2:W mil­lion shortfall in.nnxt. ynar's budgnt.. Tlw linandal problnms at. lnast partly prndatn his administration and stnm from llw city's s t n n p population dPdirw siru·p tho 19!'i0s and tho r·c·sult.ing !'rosion of' t.hn tax basP. 
But convincing rnsidnnts of Uw rwnd to makn sacrilkos will IH' dil'f'kult, givnn Kilpatrick's own rnputation for living large. And making tlw tough choices nneded to balancn tlw budget while surviving an nlnr.tion will lw an ov•~n gn~atnr r.hallongo. 
Critics say only political immaturity prcwent.~d him from acting in tlw past throe years to st.Pm tire nscalating budget cri­sis. 
"All of it is nxploding in his f'acP IH~rausn of' his neglnr.t and his rnismanagenwnt," said City Council nrombor Sharon Mcl'hail. orw of two randidatns running against Kilpatrick in a nonpartisan mayoral primary on Sept. 13. The two top vote­gntters will facn ofT Nov. R. 
Ofl'ieials say tho Lincoln Navigator was nnver used for transporting KiltHttriek's family boeausn hn did not want it after he learned tho price. Tlw police dnpartrnnnt has been trying to lind another use for it. 
But quostions have bonn raised about thn SUV's steep price tag of $24,995-if it had been live dollars more, the eon­tract would have required City Council approval. Three Detroit-area dealnrships said a monthly lease for a fully loaded Navigator would eost nearly $SOO. That would come to about $19,000 !'or two years. 
Kilpatrick has been confront­ed with a string of embarrass­ing allegations reaching back to rumors of' a wild party in 2002 that induded nudP dancing and an assault coneoalecl from police. State Attornny Gonoral Miko Cox investigated, but found no evidence the party took place, calling it "urban leg­nnd." 
Kilpatriek, who favors expen­sive suits and a diamond oar­ring, has also been sued by for­mer Detroit police oflieers who claim that guarding him indud­ed facilitating wild nights on the town and nxtramarital affairs. 
Kilpatrick denies thn allega­tions and said Saturday that the media has attacked him beeauso of racial stereotypes. 
"When you're a young Afriean Ameriean man with an earring, it's hard for people to believe you're a good husband and father," ho said. 
QUICKEN LOANS. MAKE\SJTEASYTO 
. . ·. IN TH.E . . . . ·.
.. ·····~··· e· ·
·····.... ·...·.T···.

P 
··u· •. ..· . •.... ·.~.;~.;.jw[;·.:·:'.... ·.·.: ..•...·.•·.·.··..·. •..·.·. 
. ' .. ' 

.WITH A CAR.EER AT ONJ;()F Fd~TUNE BEST COMPANIES TO WO~KFOR, 
COME<TALK T.O QUIC 



Task force envisioned present-day threats 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Nnarly three decades borore tho Sept. 11 attacks, a high-level gov­ornmen t panel clovcdopnd plans to protect the nation against terrorist aets ranging from rad iologieal "dit·ty bombs" to air:linn missile attacks, according to cledassi­l'ied documents obtainod by The Assodat<~d Pross. 
"Unless governments take basic precautions, we will continue to stand at the odge of an awful abyss," Hobert Kuppennan, chief scientist for the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, wrote in a 1977 roport that summa­rized nearly live years of' work by the Cabinnt Committee to Combat Terrorism. 
Tho group was formed in September 1972 by 11rosident Nixon after Palestinian com­mandos slaughterPd 11 lsnwli athletes at tho Munich Olympie Gamns. Tho commit­tee involvnd people as divorse as Henry Kissinger to a young Rudolph Giuliani. tho once­secret documents show. 
"It is vital that. we take every possible action our­solves and in concPrt with other nations dnsignod to assure against aets of' torror­ism," Nixon wrote in asking his secretary of' state, William Hognrs, to oversee tho task force. 
"It is equally important that we be prepared to act quickly and effoctively in the evont that, despite all efforts at pre­vention, an act of tPrrorism oeeurs involving tho United States, either at horne or abroad," the president said. 
The full committoe mot only once, in October 1972. to organize, but its experts did get together twicn a month over nnarly live years to iden­tify thrmtts and debate solu­tions, the memos show. 
Eventually, tho group's influence waned as competing priorities, a ehange of presi­dents ushnred in by Watergate, bureaueratie turf battles and a lack of spectacu­lar domestic attacks took their toll. 
But boforo that happened, tho panni idnntil'ind many of tho samn throats that. would c.onl'ront President Bush at tlw dawn of the 21st eontury. 
Tho experts frettnd that ter­rorists might gather loose nudnar materials for a "dirty bomb" that could dnvastato an Americ.an city by sprnading lethal radioactivity. 
"This is a real throat, not science l'ietion," National Security Council staffer Hiehard T. Kmmedy wmtn his boss, Kissinger, in Novnmlwr I972. 
Hognrs, in a memo to Nixon in mid-197:{, praised tlw Atomie l~nnrgy Commission's stops to safeguard nuclear weapons. Hogors, howovnr, also warn od tlw p rnsid nn t that "atomk materials could afford mind-boggling possibil­ities for terrorists." 
Commit.tne nwmbors idcmti­liod comnwrdaljnts as a par­ticular vulnerability, but raised eoru·.erns that airlines would not pay for security improvnnwnts such as t.ightnr sereening procedures and routirw baggage inspndions. 
"Tho troublo with t.lw plans is that airlines and airports will have to absorb the eosts and so tlwy will scrPam bloody rnurdnr should this lw rnquirnd of thmn," <U'(:ording to a White llousn nwmo from 1972. "Othnrwisn, it is a sound plan which will (:urtail t.ho r·isk of' hijacking substan­tially." 
By 197(,, govnmnwnt pres­sure to improve airport sPeu­rity and thwart hijackings had awakonod airline industry lobbyists. 
Tho International Air Transport Assoeiation said "airport security is tlw responsibility of tho host gov­emmnnt. Tho airline industry did not consider the terrorist throat its most signil'icant problem; it had to nHHLsun~ it against othnr prioritins. II' individual c:ompanies wnrn forend to provide tlwir own sncurity, tiH~Y would go hrokn," according to minul.t's from orw nwoting. 

------~
----------------------------------------------~----~------­
TI-·iE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, January 24, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

The Observer endorses Fitzgerald-Siegel 
P.O. Box 779. Notte Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, NotreDame, IN 46556 Despite a confusing beginning for the Saint Mary's student reflect upon her past experiences in student government EDITOR IN CHIEF body presidential and vice presidential elections -with a and find solutions to mend any new holes. Siegel, who 
Matt Lazar contentious third ticket temporarily clouding the ballot -remained on campus, was still able to look at student gov­there is now a clear choice for the students of the College. ernment from a longer lens -spending time talking with
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 

Both of the two approved tickets-bring good ideas to Saint students from all corners of the College to create a platform
Meghanne Downes Mike Flanagan 

Mary's as a whole. But one ticket is more thor­centered around what the entire communityAssT. MANAGING EDITOR oughly prepared to take the helm as leaders of OJ.!he wants.
userver .
Joe Herder 

the student body. Fitzgerald and Siegel seem to have a firm NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger Based on interviews with The Observer, grasp on the genuine openness that leading VIEWPOINT_EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas Michelle Fitzgerald and Lauren Siegel present the student body will require. Their opposi­

Editorial 
SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden the most qualified choice for student body tion, on the other hand, lacks a genuine con­ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith president and vice president. nection with the needs of the student body and students' Fitzgerald and Siegel demonstrate ideal leadership abili­concerns about the effectiveness of the present leadership.
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud ties that would ensure a smooth and effective transition into Kellye Mitros and Susan Mcllduff' propose a series of ideas,
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley the positions they pursue. Fitzgerald especially shows the but the ideas lack cohesion. Mitros and Mcllduff' were not
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 

ability to step forward and resolve current student con­able to articulate concrete proposals for most of their plans,
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin 

cerns, based upon discussions and controversies that leaving much to be desired.
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson 

sprung up this year. But it is the fresh perspective they have This is the time for student government to get back on 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
gained about that experience that confirms their status as track in terms of what the students need and want. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter 

the best choice. Fitzgerald and Siegel's campaign slogan "You Have Been CoNTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
That perspective is why Saint Mary's voters should be Heard" has become an integral and driving force in deter­attracted to-and convinced by-Fitzgerald and Siegel's mining exactly what the studentbody needs and deserves.
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 

(574) 
631-7471 commitment to furthering student relationships in all The Observer endorses Michelle Fitzgerald and Lauren FAX aspects of campus life. Fitzgerald, who spent her fall semes­Siegal for 2005-06 Saint Mary's student body president 

(574) 
631-6927 ter in Washington, D.C., used her absence constructively to and vice president. 


ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 


It's all about living
BUSINESS OFFICE 

(574) 631-5313 NEWS 0ESK The greatest trick the devil ever arbitrary, the way it is decided who in consequences can be observed in rising 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 

played, goes the old adage, is convincing our society is to bear the greatest bur­rates of depression and suicide amongst
VIEWPOINT DESK 

people that he does not exist. If the devil den of suffering. individuals from all different demo­
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 

. SPORTS DESK can be seen as all the controllable The "service" in which I was partici­graphies. 
(574) 
631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu forces that lead to human suffering, the pating, by helping to prepare that din­This trend holds true even for my own SCENE DESK adage could not be ner, was not a give-and-take dynamic. roots. White, upper-middle class males 

(574) 
631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu truer. Because, in Michael In its truest form, service is reciprocal, are inclined to think that addressing


SAINT MARY'S DESK 

short, we are sleep­Poffenberger the joining together of human beings in issues of race, class and gender is the
smc.l@nd.edu 

ing. pursuit of common liberation. It is not responsibility only of the oppressed.
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu It was noted recent­sacrificial but instead the most ~entral This lie deprives us of the constructive SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS ly by a civil rights Say l1/hy Not characteristic of the full human experi­exercise of power and creativity. 
(574) 631-8839 leader who lectured ence. This form of service is practiced Instead of seeing and engaging our here that people through meaningful participation in the society's greatest problems, we are 
THE 

today are more able to talk about their communities around us, through finding increasingly displacing the responsibili­
OBSERVER ONLINE 

favorite sports team -the statistics, the the suffering in others and engaging it ty for engagement to systems outside of
" www.ndsmcobserver.com 

players, the season, the outlook-than with love and concern. our own controL This faith in discourses POLICIES they are about the forces guiding their Obviously, and quite unfortunately, that are bigger than individuals-in 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper life and broader human relations. We our society does not operate on 
democracy, capitalism, the published in print and online by the students ofthe have been distracted from what matters this conception of the human nation-state and, yes, even in University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's most, taking the world as it is for grant­person. The existence of religion-renders us power­
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
ed even at a time when things are poverty and hunger, 
less 
bystanders in the 
not governed by policies ofthe administration of either 
changing more rapidly than ever before. radically dehumaniz­construction of our
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
And this sleeping does not just bode ing as they are in the future.
advertisements based on content. 
omin1 ly for the future. It is also con­face of such extreme Hope for the future
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of trary , ,lw way humans are ordered. wealth, speaks of thus does not rest in the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, We arc ·eated as social beings and are serious social ill­any of these dis­Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. healthu .t when joining with others to ness. We in courses, but Commentaries, letters and columns present the views contribute meaningfully to the commu­America have instead in individ­
of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe 
nities around us. been infected with ual people taking
Observer. 
For many, encounters with human a greed that the initiative to 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free· 

suffering can end the reverie. I was first would have us engage our society
expression ofall opinions through letters is encourag• 
shaken from my world of homework, believe that suc­to ensure that the
Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include 
clothes and swim practice in high cess comes with voices of all are
contact information. school, during a Christmas dinner at my our own profit, heard and consid­Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be parish for homeless and low-income often at the expense ered. It lies in waking directed to Editor in Chief Matt Lazar. families. I sat down to eat at a table of others. up to the realization with several Hispanic families and nerv­Furthermore, the that we are made for POST OFFICE INFORMATION ously engaged in conversation. The dia­reservation of social each other and as such for logue that ensued that evening had a power only for the select few equality as welL
The Obs~rvcr (USPS 'S~)t.) 2-4U00) is published Monday tluoug_h Friday I:!:K-ccpt during t)t.lln ltUd vaca.thm periods. Asubscription to The Obsttrvl!t i~ $100 for one academic significant impact on the course of my has alienated many from mean­year; $55 tOr one semesctr. 
life. In their stories I encountered not ingful participation. Local communities Michael Poffenberger is a senior just physical hunger, but also a pro­are becoming displaced by increasingly anthropology and peace studies major. 
The Obwrvtr is published at: POSTMASTER 
02-4 South Dining Ball Send !lddre.% c:orrt.-tiions ro: found social and spiritual hunger. And, I transnational processes and concentra­His column appears every other 
Notre Dame. IN 46'556-0779 fu0bser¥er 
began to realize, I shared that hunger, tions of power, excluding people from Monday. He can be contacted at
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dam~t r.o. Bo< 779 and addidtmal mailing offi.c:es. 024 &~uth Oining Ha:l! too. Listening to them affirmed our influence over the decisions that affect mpoffenb@nd. edu. 
Notr( Dan1t, IN 465-%-{)779 

shared humanity and provided an their lives. Neighborhoods and networks The views expressed in this column implicit challenge to the structures that are disintegrating. This trend is con­are those of the author and not neces­created our differences. It seemed so trary to our nature as humans, and the sarily those ofThe Observer. 
'flu: O~crvcr is a member uf t:k Associated Pre.'ili. All.repmduction rights arc 
Tl'SCTVCcl. 
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Amanda Michaels Justin Schuver Katie Perry Ken Fowler Tricia DeGroot Kate Seryak 
How many of your professors are
Viewpoint Scene Justin Spack Christie Boisen priests, brothers or sisters? Graphics lllustrator Desiree Zamora Meg Dwyer 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'The distance between insanity and genius is measured only by success., 
Elliot Carver in "Tomorrow Never Dies" 
THE 0HSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Monday, January 24, 2005 page II 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
We need things to celebrate 
Tho following is a slightly revised and as Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting nxpandnd version of the comments made (fair.org), Center for Media and Democracy by Joseph Millnr at tho Counter (prwatch.org), and Media Matters for lnaul-(uration Obsnrvanco hold at Saint America (mediamatters.org) are also expe­Mary's Collogn on Jan. 20. Tho Obsorvanen riencing rapid growth. was sponsored by thn Pnacn Not War Also "to celebrate" are the many timely )-(roup at the Collngn. and excellent vidfJOS that are available 
Wn rwnd things to cnlnhraln. A Prnsidenl dirnctly and inexpensively over the inter­and administration have been rnturrwd lo net for citizen education, empowerment, ollice that arn incredibly skillful in using and adion. Titles such as "Uncovered: the spin, divorsion, snerocy, intimidation and Whole Truth About the Iraq War," dirty tricks lo gnl whallhey wanl. "Unconstitutional: the War on Our Civil 
What thny want is unqunstionml domi­Liberties," and "Hijacking Catastrophe: narH~n and pownr; unqunslionml privatiza­IJ/11, Fear & the Selling of Ameriean tion of nvnry r.om~nivabln govnrnnwntal Empirn" aro but a few of the many line furH·.tion; and liiHJUOsl.ionnd concentration videos available. Miduwl Moore's award of wealth. They want this both horn and winning "Fahrenheit 9111" and earlier abroad, and tlwy will do whatnvor thoy "Bowling for Columbine,'' served a similar dtHHll rwr.nssary lo achieve their goals. function first in theaters, and now in living 
Whiln they franw thnir actions as eom­rooms, across the country. passionatl', lili\ nnhandng and democracy "What's to celebrate" is that these and produeing, thny arn just the opposite. othnr trends produced rneord voter Their actions show little regard li1r our turnout in the Nov. 2 Presidential election. constitution; little rngard for the lives of Unfortunately, the election was marred by present and futurn gnrwrations here or all sorts of vote suppression, vote fraud, abroad; and little rt\gard for other species irn1gularities and illegalities, especially in or the nnvironmnnt horn or abroad. stales such as Ohio and Florida. 
This is an administration whose arro­Extensive, high quality evidence suggests ganr.n, insensitivity, groupthink and tun­that had this vote suppression, vote fraud, rwl-vision are so pervasive, so deep, that it etc. not occurred in Ohio, it is very likely is incapable of pon:eiving the immense that Ohio, and thus the Presidency, would damagn it is doing. It is also incapable of have gone to Kerry. In general, the main­changing iL'i ways-witness its recent stream media either did not report this appointnes, e.g., Alberto Gonzales and evidence, or reported it in such a way as to Condolnozza Hiee, and the policies they undermine its credibility. The progressive havo endorsed. It basically asserts that it media followed the unfolding story, howev­has a mandatn for more of the same, only er, and rnported it on sueh excellent sites this time with grnatnr vigor and grnator as frcepress.org, and abandon. Nothing is to be oil" limits­yesmagazine.org/cmblog. ovnrything is fair gamn. "What's to celebratn" is that becausn of 
All of this is aided and abetted by a corn­the above described questions about the pliant and acquiescent mainstream media validity of Ohio's eleetoral votes, on Jan. 6, that rnf'uses to do its job. This is especially 32 mpresentatives and 1 senator formally lruo of' media monopolies such as Fox, challenged -for only the third time in his­Sindair, and Clear Channel whieh have lory-the joint electoral vote count by bemme extensions of the Administration both ehambers of Congress. -spinning and endlessly repeating some Some would say "get over it." But no citi­stories, and undermining and suppressing zen, regardless of political persuasion ollwrs. should "get over it" when the foundation of 
So what's to celebratn'! "What's to enle­our democracy-free and fair elections ­brale" is lhal dlizens are catching on and is under assault. mobilizing. The alternative, progressive, I'll dose with Margaret Mead's famous internet basnd media sueh as eommon­observation: "Never doubt that a small drnarns.org, altnrnnt.org, and group of thoughtful, committed citizens lompaine.eorn arn llourishing. Progressive ean ehange the world. Indeed, it is the only politieal groups such as MoveOn thing that ever has." (movnon.org), Center for Arneriean l'rogrPss (arncrieanprogross.org), and Joseph Miller Campaign li~r America's Future (our­chair, department ofpsychology futurn.orgl arn also prospering. Saint Mary's College Progrllssivc media watchdog groups such Jan. 21 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
U-WIRE 
Bush heralds freedom 
After Wednesday afternoon's snow­Tocqucvillc wrote that among most fall, many of the visitors here in nations, equality prncndml frnndom. Washington, D.C., were shivering in Equality, according to do ToequeviliP, the bitter cold during Thursday's inau­was "a faet of some standing when guration. Two othnr people from out of freedom was still a novnlty: the one town, however, E . R d ·g had already crnatnd customs, opinions 
. nc o aw1

Rep. Naney I> e1osr and laws belonging lo it, when lhe (D-Calif.) and Sen. other, alone and for the lirsllimc,
The Hoya

Barbara Boxer (D­came into actual existence." 
Georgetown

Calif.), were simply It is now the timn for freedom lo
University

bitter. But even cease being that novelty and tum into though Pelosi, as a reality. Bush reallirmmllhis commit­quoted in a f'undraising appeal, ment Thursday. But this plndge does "ldoesn'l] feel much like eelebrating," not only apply to those who lack basic her mood couldn't put a damper on lreedoms-it will continue further, the wondnrful festivities resulting from helping those who do not nnjoy the President George W. Bush's reelection. more advanced frendoms of a modnrn 
In his 21-minute inaugural speech. society. the president outlined a broad vision Economic. independence was the of frPedom, both at home and over­first of these American ideals that seas. The rapidly spreading "firn of Bush mentioned. freedom,'' Bush said, "warms those According lo tho latnsllndcx of who feel its power, it burns those who Economic Frnedom, a listing published light its progress, and one day ... will by the Wall Street Journal and the rnaeh the darkest corners of our Heritage Foundation that determinns world." economic rankings by considering 
While many presidential second issues including taxation, trade policy terms have failed to live up to their and government intervention, the expectations, Bush's next four years American economy has fallen to will eonlinue to usher in a new era of become only the 12th frnest in the freedom in Ameriea and throughout world. the world. Tyrannical regimes in Iraq Hnstruduring our lax wde and and Afghanistan have already fallen, Soda! Security systnm arn nssential and other oppressive governments like steps towards rntaking eeonomie indn­those in Iran and Libya are either fac­pendonr.e from the government, ing growing resistance from within or whose members need to lake Bush's are running seared. inaugural words of "to servn your pno­
The president said that he has ple, you must learn to trust them" to "complete confidence in the eventual heart. triumph of freedom," and accepts Bush vownd yesterday to rnturn America's duty to ensure it for those these economic freedoms as well as who are currently without. This is not freedoms of every other kind into the an easy mission, yet it is one that our deserving hands of Americans. Those country has already achieved in the who would stand in his way-the fare of communism -and one that way of liberty-havn been warned of we will successfully achieve once more the eonsequenr.es of doing so during against the threats facing the nation America's last thn\e elections and two today. military interventions. 
This victory will not come quickly, Barbara Boxer may be safe for but continuing Hepublican gains another six years, but tho failed poli­across the country clearly prove that cies she and the rest of her !ell-wing the American people have the neces­cronies eontinun to defend most cer­sary resolve and won't settle for whin­tainly arc not. ing, excuses and indecision. 
In the coming decades, this resolve This column originially appeared in will give our government a resilient the Jan. 21 edition of nze 1/oya, the mandate for reform. During the 20th daily publication at Georgetown century, reform was carried out in the Unillersity. name of equality. The l!iews expressed in this column 
In his "Demoeraey in America," the are those ofthe author and not neces­great political philosopher Alexis de sarily those ofThe Obsenwr. 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Monday, January 24, 2005 

•

otn 0 
The 19th annual Late Night Olympics raised money 



By MARIA SMITH and LISA SCHULTZ Scene Editor and Scene Writer 
It isn't too often that the Joyce Center becomes the favorite place for Notre Dame students to spend their Saturday night. 
But this weekend at the 19th annual Late Night Olympics, that may have been the case. Biting winds and snow piles made leaving home an intimidating prospect. But inside the JACC, students left hats, coats and mittens aside·to shoot hoops, play kickball and even splash 
competition, and the Late Night Olympic money helps cover entry fees." 
But Late Night Olympics is also a fun event for people involved with Specia Olympics. Special Olympics basketball play­ers face off against members of the Notre Dame community, which Skeens cites a· the highlight of the evening. 
"[The athletes] look forward to this al year, they all want to play," Skeens said. "The parents are here, everyone's excited, it's a wonderful family night." 
Director of athletics Sally Derengoski, 
who spearheaded the first 
Late Night Olympics, almostaround the pool until the 
"The parents are here,
wee hours of the morning. seemed embarrassed to 
Notre Dame lives up to everyone's excited, it's a admit that she brought the its jock school reputation wonderful family night.,, original idea for Notre with this yearly event, but Dame's tradition from the effects go further. Indiana University at 
Jane Skeens 

Sponsored by RecSports Bloomington. Derengoski and the Department of assistant to the Special participated in the Spirit of Athletics, Late Night Olympics county Sport all-nighter as an IU Olympics benefits the student, and decided to try1

coordinator of St. Joseph
Special Olympics. it out when she started,

County

RecSports runs several working for RecSports. 
fundraisers in connection with the Late Night Olympics, including money from entry fees, donations from dorms to get points toward the Grand Prize, a raffle, an open skate on the ice rink and penny wars between the dorms. The final sum of the money raised this year is not yet known because the change from penny wars is being counted today, but assistant director of RecSports 

and director of Late Night Olympics Bill Reagan placed last year's donation at over $8,000. 
Special Olympics is always glad to get volunteers, and has numerous uses for the money. 
"The money raised mostly goes to our basketball tourna­ment in Indianapolis," said Jane Skeens, assistant to the Special Olympics county coordinator of St. Joseph County. "It is a state 

But Notre Dame has obvi-1 ously made the idea its own. Around 1,200, to 1,500 students have participated every year since the beginning, making Late Night Olympics the largest event sponsored. by RecSports. Derengoski said the number of participants was almost as large when it I started as it is now. 
"Right off the bat it was well received," 
L______________________________________________________________________ _ 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Monday, January 24, 2005 
e 
0 


il the wee hours ofthe morningfor Special Olympics 

.ngoski said. 1at has changed is thn amount of ey raised. l>erengoski said donations 
c~ontinLwd to grow since l.atn Night 1pics started. w amazing thing to me is that every­
is really active in the fundraising," said. "Most reps have to ask for more Cl ticknts. For a one night bash, just g a good limn and playing ball, that's 
•tty rwat event." course it's tlw games that kenp people in g hac~ k every year. Wan de ring Heagan. Of the 536 teams that entered in 17 events, teams in Wiffleball increased from 13 to 19 teams, and teams in Nerf football more than doubled from 12 to 25 teams. Overall, the Keenan/Farley/LeMans team had the most participants enter through the door, although that does not necessarily mean they had the most teams entered. Participants were generally pleased with the event as it went into the final hours. 
"llm:k yes I'm excited!" said junior Tyler Smith about winning a gold medal in Inner 
nd, it's not hard to sen 
In the pool pnople in 1 caps and inner tubes throwing balls at each r, and on the main lloor ~pedal Olympians have beat thn reetors and llhers of the athletic itrtrnent :~4 to 24 wh iln tlS ·on nillwr side faced n volleyball. In tlw front tlw dance marathon is .1t to start and in a fnw rs tlw dorms will divide 
"It was nice to just have fun and enjoy /the games/ without all the pressure. 
Susan Pinnick freshman 
tube Water Polo on the O'Np,iJI/Lyons team. 
"The dance marathon is fun to watch," said junior Christina Kavran of the side events as she waited for target golf to start. 
"It was nice to just have fun and enjoy it without all the pressure," said fresh­man Susan Pinnick of Welsh Family. The Co-Hee Indoor Soccer event was a change from her usual var­
two hugn tnarns for a game of monster ~n ball. Almost evnry part of thn JACC 1pping. 11ving the event from a Friday to 1rclay did not makn a largo difTnrcnce in rail attendance. However, "several ·ts had much better parti<:i pation this r than a year ago," according to Contact Maria Smith and Lisa Schultz at msmith4@nd.edu and lschultz@nd.edu 

sity soccer workouts. 
"It's a fun opportunity," said Welsh Family Hall athletic commissioner Melissa Sands, who goes door to door selling rartle tickets to girls who might not have heard about the event at hall council meetings. "It's a laid back atmosphere, it's for a great cause. People get really excited." 
After ten hours of activity, 

the last student worhrs left the Joyce Center at 4 a.m. The results that declare an overall winner of Late Night Olympics are still being tabu­lated. 

page 13 

·­
.... 
be water polo In Rolf's. The Late Night teams of dorms from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's competed all night in order to raise money for Special Olympics. 
---~---~--~­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, January 24, 2005 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Unranked Villanova shocks No.2 Kansas 
Washington beats Wash. St.; Pittsburgh takes out UConn; Va. Tech shocks Ga. Tech 
for these kids," Wright said. 
Associated Press Villanova had lost its last two PHILADELPHIA -Undef­games on free throws in the eated Kansas never stood a final seconds, but this one was chance once Allen Ray, Curtis never really close. After hold­Sumpter and the rest of the ing a modest seven-point lead spirited Villanova Wildcats got at halftime, the Wildcats went rolling. on a 15-2 run to open the sec­Sumpter sank five 3-pointers ond half, gave up three points, and scored 25 points, Ray then reeled off 16 straight made four 3s and scored -27 points. . and Villanova led by as many Sumpter and Ray were near­as 32 points in a stunning 83-ly unstoppable in the second 62 victory over No. 2 Kansas half, helping the Wildcats to on Saturday. their biggest upset since beat­"We had some tough breaks ing No. 1 Connecticut in 1994. this season, but guys stuck No. 10 Washington 66, with it everyday," Sumpter Washington State 48 said. The Washington Huskies did-The Wildcat fans -who o 't look forward to playing braved the first snowstorm in grind-it-out Washington State. Philly this year -chanted "It was something we're defi­"Overrated! early in this one nitely not used to," Jamaal and counted down the final Williams said. "You just have to minutes before storming the tough it out." 76ers' home court in celebra­Nate Robinson scored 13 tion. points and the No. 10 Huskies "Villanova today, the Eagles moved into a tie for the Pac-1 0 tomorrow!" one fan yelled as lead with a 66-48 victory over he left the Gourt. the Cougars on Sunday. Only Illinois, Duke and Williams and freshman Joel Boston College remain among Smith came off the bench to the undefeated teams in the each score 10 points for the Top 25. It was the Jayhawks' Huskies (16-2, 6-1), who won said. "If we would do this every court in five tries. throws with 5.5 seconds left ..-worst loss under second-year their 18th straight at home and time we play them, we would­The snowstorm that pounded and the No. 12 Yellow Jackets coach Bill Self and most lop­tied a school record with their n't have to be uptempo." the Northeast did little to deter missed two putback attempts sided defeat since they lost to 12th straight Pac-1 0 home win. No. 21 Pittsburgh 76, UConn fans. Season-ticket as Virginia Tech survived a Wake Forest by 31 points on The Huskies are tied for first No. 16 Connecticut 66 holders who did not make the frantic final seconds for the Dec. 7, 2000. with Arizona (6-1), which beat Chevon Troutman and game donated about 3,000 upset Saturday. "It had been coming," Self Oregon State on Saturday Pittsburgh's rugged defense tickets to students who helped "We got lucky at the end of said. "We've been putting a lot night. were more than Connecticut fill the 10,000-seat Gampel the game," Virginia Tech coach of band aids on our deficien­It wasn't a classic could handle. Pavilion. And the crowd let the Seth Greenberg said. "Let's cies." Washington offensive perform­In a matchup of Big East Panthers hear it from the face it, any of those shots could The Jayhawks (14-1) have ance. The Huskies shot a sea­heavyweights, the No. 21 opening tip. have gone in." hardly played like one of the son-worst .359 percent from Panthers rallied from 17 points But in the closing seconds Instead, the Yellow Jackets best teams in the country lately the field (23-for-64) and 3-for-down to upset the 16th-ranked they began quietly filing out in (11-5, 2-3 Atlantic Coast with four of their last five 13 from 3-point range, but Huskies before a raucous droves. Pitt guard Carl Krauser Conference) lost their third games decided by six or fewer coach Dick Bennett's ball-con­UConn crowd. skipped over to the sidelines, straight while the Hokies (10-6, points. They were never really trol Cougars had a lot to do Troutman scored 25 of his grabbed his jersey and let the 3-2) celebrated a milestone in this one against the up­with that. career-high 29 points in the departing crowd know "We're win. tempo Wildcats (10-4). The purple-clad student sec­second half and the Panther not going to lose. We're the In addition to winning their Kansas played fast and loose tion didn't appreciate the defense did the rest, holding beast of the East." first road conference game in with the ball with bad deci­Cougars' deliberate, slowdown UConn to 27 percent shooting Troutman was a beast in the their first season in the ACC, sions and costly turnovers. Self tactics, chanting, "Boring, bor­in the final 20 minutes. second half. The 6-foot-7 the Hokies took their first vic­benched his starters for one ing, boring," in the second half. "We always dig ourselves a power forward scored 10 tory at a ranked team's home long stretch in the second half Washington came into the hole and we always come straight points midway through floor since Jan. 23, 1982, when as the game turned into a game averaging 89.4 points a back," Troutman said. "We the second half and gave the they won at No. 17 Louisville. blowout and the Wildcats game, tops in the Pac-10 and haven't been getting the big Panthers (13-3, 3-2 Big East) Also, Virginia Tech beat a team pounced on every mistake with second in the nation. The plays down the stretch and their first lead at 55-54 with ranked as high as No. 12 for one big shot after another. Huskies had their lowest point we've been taking plays off 8:14 left -and Pitt would the first time since defeating "Villanova exposed us," Self total of the season. They have down the stretch. Tonight is a never give it back. No. 2 Memphis on Feb. 1, said. scored 100 or more points in night when we didn't take a Virginia Tech 70, 1986. This was certainly the most four games this season. play off down the stretch." No. 12 Georgia Tech 69 "This is a great confidence­important regular-season win Huskies coach Lorenzo Pitt and UConn had split six Virginia Tech needed a little booster, playing the No. 12 in coach Jay Wright's four sea­Romar still felt good afterward, meetings over the last three luck to win its first road game team in the nation on their sons. though. seasons and played each other over a ranked opponent in 23 own court and beating them," "I know the program's going "The fact that we were able in the conference tournament years. said Virginia Tech's Carlos in the right direction. I know to win by 18 points despite it final the past three seasons. It It came in the final seconds. Dixon, who scored 21 points, we've got good guys, we've got not being an uptempo game was the first win for the Georgia Tech's lsma'il including the decisive basket good guys coming in, it's more makes you feel pretty good," he Panthers on UConn's home-Muhammad missed two free with 36 seconds left. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

BOSOX FANS check out New 4-bdrm,3-bath home.Avail DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW Cheapest 2005 Spring Break $499 newyorkchokees.net 8/05. Cathedral ceiling, fireplace, LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 all-inclusive, all drinks, all food, all 
WANTED 
DIRECTOR OF YOUTH MINISTRY: St. Paul s Catholic Church (3400­family parish), Jacksonville Beach, FL is searching for a Director of Youth Ministry. Requirements/skills required include: a Bachelor s degree with a background in Catholic teachings and theology, working with teens, families and volunteers along with organization­al, communication and leadership skills. Position requires a back­ground screening. Interested indi­viduals email maryhulihan@yahoo.com to receive informational packet providing more extensive information regarding this position. Resumes must be received no later than 2/15/05. 

FoR SALE 
Complete working computers $125 574-286-3295. 
One bedroom condo near UNO. Appliances $72,000 280-8160 Kim Kollar 

FoR RENT 
2-6 bedroom homes for 05-06 Walking distance from NO. MMMRentals.com 532-1408 deluxe kitchen, skylights, 2-car garage, family room, 10x20 deck. Safe area. 
Call574-232-4527 or 269-683­5038. 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2005-2006 Academic year ­Available June 1, 2005 2 Bedrooms -2 Baths, Washer/Dryer, Security System. Fully Furnished. (626)441-1275 or Salvaty@earthlink.net 
COLLEGE PARK CON DOMINI­UMS AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 SCHOOL YEAR.TWO BED­ROOM, TWO BATHS. 
HURRY 235-7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 
SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUS­ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BED­ROOM HOUSES. 
STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. 
ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006­2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7­8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEB­SITE 
WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR 
CONTACT: KRAMER 574-234­2436 OR 574-315-5032. 


PERSONAL 
Spring Break 2005 with STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. 

Call for group discounts. Info/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com 
Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Celebrity Parties! 
Panama City, Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Nassau $499! 

Award Winning Company! SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678­6386 parties! www.needspringbreak.com 1-866-668-9037. 
Just wait till next year, NFC. 
If they move me again I'm going to burn down the building. 
Happy Birthday Rory! 
Hudson, Smeltz, Hampton. It's just not fair. Bring it back, NHL. Bring it back. Pork delivery's late. Squat Manmuscle. Bulk Slackjaw. 
Big McLargehuge Don't mess with the Dimly South. 

-~~------­
---------~~-­
Monday, January 24, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NBA 

Bucks extend Knicks losing streak to six straight 
Assnc i;m·d Press ous livn dnf'nats had come by a combined. lln'd even llubbnd a 
total of' 1 I points. The nxenption pair with 5:30 left and the game 
NFW YOBK-Tho Nnw York was a 91-1-H 1 loss to Toronto. tied. Then Nowitzki was called Knirks had a nnw coach, a ff~W Heat 105, Bulls 81 for charging, wiping out a go­dii'I'Prnnt looks on thn court and Dwyann Wade had 1 X points ahead basknt with 49.9 seconds thP sanw old rPstllt in tlw end. and snvnn assists, and the left. 
I>Psmond Mason scored 22 Miami lleat built a 25-point So what did the Dallas points to load six Milwaukoo first.-quartnr load on thn way to Mavericks do with the game on playnrs in doubln f'igun~s. and an nasy victory ovnr the Nnw the linn'? They went back to thn Bu<~ks lwld off' tlw !'reo­O!'lnans Hornets on Sunday Nowitzki, ol' course. falling Knieks Sunday, spoiling night. Nowitzki rnwardnd tho faith lhP dnhul of roach llorb Damon .Jonns had 13 points by av1mging all his mistakes ­Williams. and 11vn assists, and Shaq uille making a layup, drawing the 
"WI' wPrn d1dinitnly pn•parod O'Nnal addnd 12 pilints and foul and swishing the fren for lhPir Ptwrgy," Mason said. night n~bounds in 2:{ minutes throw-with 17.9 seconds to go, "OnrP WI' jumiHHI Oil top of' for thn Eastern Conf'ernncn­lil'ting the Mavericks to a victory liH'IIl prPtty quirk, WI' kind of lnading Ileal (30-12), who won over tho I>envor Nuggets on knorknd thPir spirits down." f'or tlw third timo in sevnn Sunday. 
Tlw Knir.ks haven't had much ganws and improvnd to 9-<J "Dirk is a spocial playnr," to gPl nxritnd about latPiy, los­against. teams from the Wnst. teamrnato Michael Finley said. ing I 0 of Uwir last II. This otw Thn 29-point final margin was "A couplo gamns a year you ean11• a day al'lnr llall of Fanw a snason-bnst for the llnat, who stand hack and think how good roarh I.Pnny Wilknns stopped bnat Chicago 1 05-R I on Dnc. 3. it is that he's your teammate. down and Williams assunwd tlw It also was tlu~ bnst defnnsivn This is one of those gamos. IIn l11•ad job for tlu• I'I'SI. of tlw sna­showing of' the snason f'or did what. it takes to win." er he gives us coming ofT tho StoudemirP marin his f'irs1 sott. Miami. whir.h hnld Nnw .Jnrsey Nowitzki finished with 35 bench is just somothing wo night shots and I:{ of 14 bnl'oro 
With Knicks president lsiah to 77 points to opnn thn ynar. points and 11 robounds, but he need." missing two in a row in t.lw Thomas looking on from his Dan Dirkau had 16 points for was only S-of-1 :{ !'rom thn linn. Toronto's leading scoror had fourth quarter. Quentin usual vantage point in tlw tun­tlw llornets, whosn NBA-worst That's a stunning lit ol' thn yips 12 points during a pivotal 19-4 Biehardson seorl'd 20 points. nl'l hPhind lhP lwnrh. Williams record I(~ II to 7-33. for sonwonn who came in hav­run in thn f'our·th quarter. Tlw including 5-ol'-1 0 on :b. for immndiat.Piy set to work putting Miami's 56-25 half'tirnn lnad ing made 4:{ in a row. Haptors outscornd the Bobcats Phon nix. Jon .Johnson addod I5 his imprint on tlw tl'am. lin matdwd tlw f'ranchisn's largnst Raptors 103, Bobcats 92 26-12 in the final pnriod. points, and Shawn Marion had gavP rookil' Trevor Ariza tlw al'tnr two quartnrs -plus Jalnn Bose hates being a Suns 113, Nets 105 I 0 points and I:{ rebounds. first start of his rarnnt". usnd marknd thn lowest scoring lirst­reservo, but he sure looks good Amam Stoudemire scornd :n HodnPy Buford S<~ored I (J snwral dii'I'Prnnt linnup wmbi­half' in llornets' franehisn histo­in the role. points on 13-f'or-16 shooting, points f'or the NeL'i, hut was 1­nations and played sonw zonn ry; Charlottn had 27 at halftime Rosn scored 14 of his 22 and Steve Nash had a season­of'-7 in tlw second hall'. dPfPnsP in an pff'ort t.o find a in Minnnsota on Nov. 9, 1990. points in the fourth quarter as high 30 points to lead Phoenix Phoenix blew a 17-point. way to gPt tlw Knicks hack on Nnw Orlnans hit its 11rst two the Toronto Raptors boat the to a victory over the Nnw f'ourth-quartnr lead in a 121-1­lhP winning track. shots, taking a 5-2 lnad bnf'orn Charlotto Bobcats on Sunday. Jersey Nets on Sunday night. 1 2 :{ o v e r tim n I o s s to San 
''I' 111 going to knnp lhings a lit­tlw onslaught bngan. Tho 10-year veteran has snapping the Suns' six-game Antonio on Friday night, and lin tHorn towards dnfl'nsn," Miami. which madn its first played better since bning losing strnak. lost most of' a 15-point second­Williams said. "Lonny was real­s1wnn shots, scored 14 straight removed from the Baptors' Nash, playing his second half' advantagn Sunday. ly good at running ofTnnsn, but. I points to opnn what bnearnn a starting lineup 15 gamns ago. game af'ter missing 3 1/2 Thn Suns, who IIHtvl~ Monday think you havn to shut teams 29-4 run over a 9-minutn Tho disgruntled forward, who is games because of' thigh and for a season-high six-ganH~ 
down in this lnague." strntch, nliminating any intrigue rumored to be on the trading back injuries, was 5-of'-6 from road trip, mado f'iv1~ :{-point­
StPphon Marbury had 33 from t.hn first matehup between block, wont R-of-15 from tlw 3-point rangn and had nino ers, two apiece f'or Nash and points to lead Nnw York. and tho teams since the Ileal bnat field against Charlotte and is assists. Hichardson, in a I<J-2 outburst .Jamal Crawford addPd 20. But the llornnts in Game 7 of last shooting 50.5 percent from the Vince Carter scored :~2 that erased a five-point dnlkit it. wasn't enough to stop ynar's Eastnrn Confnnmcn quar­field since he became a reserve. points, and Jason Kidd had 23 and made it 7CJ-(J4 with 6:02 to Milwaukee from pkking up its tnrlinals. lie shot 42 percent as a starter. for the Nets. who had their go in thn third quartl~r. Tlw fi l'th road win of' tho snason. Mavericks 95, Nuggets 93 "Jalen is always going to talk season-best three-game win­run reached 20-4 on 
It was anotlwr dosn loss for Dirk Nowitzki missed live free about starting. I understand ning streak snapped in thn Stoudemirn's inside pownr the Knieks. Coming into the throws, the same numbnr lw'd that," Toronto coach Sam first of five in a row on tho move that made it S0-(J6 with ganH', four of' Now York's provi-missed over his last 10 games Mitchell said. "But the !irepow-road. 5:44 lel't in thn period. 

NFL 
Super Bovvl advertisers stay tight-lipped about big spots 
Assn,iat<·d Press tisers aro going to be incredibly firm, Goodby, Silverstein & well-behaved," he said. Partners, is produeing a spot f'or 
NI·:W YOHK-As in ynars past, That ad and others airnd dur­Em1mr.ld snack nuts that will be many Supnr Bowl advnrtisnrs ing last year's game eausnd con­a far cry from the horse ad. arn guarding tlw snr.rney of' cern in some quarters that In it, a father tries to defloet a tlrnir :HI-snrond spots with thn advnrtisers had gone too f'ar in requost from his daughter t.o wal of' an intnllig!HJcn opl'l'ativn. using ribald humor to grab thn sham his Emnrald nuts by say­J•:v<'ll SIJ, IJIW thing SI'PIIlS cor­attention of' the young, male ing that if' he does, unieoms will lain: (;as-passing horsns, audimrcns that marketers try so disappear forever. A momoi)t rrotrh-hiting animals and aed­dnspnratnly hard to mach. later, a unicorn strides into tlw dPnl.al bikini wax trnal.nwnts (;oodby said advertisnrs are living room and chides the nut­will lw nowlwre in sight.. mudr mon~ cautious this ynar. hoarding paront: "Ah, that's not 
.lust ask adwrtising nxnnrl.ivo "1\vnrybody knows wlwre the t.run, Jack." Santa Claus and .loll' (;oodby, whose firm crnatml linn is, and I don't think it. will thn Eastnr Bunny also chime in llrn Budwnisnr spot last ynar in lw <~rossed," he said. "It's beforo Dad hands over the nuts. whirh a draft horsl' spoilnd a i m pI i ~~it in t h n proe e s s that Fox, which is broadcasting romantic Pvnning l'or a young you're not going to get your the Feb. (J game, is asking $2.4 l"llltpiP riding in a hansom cab. dient in trouble this year." million f'or ea<~h half-minutn ad "This ynar, I think most advnr-Coodhy's San Frandsco-based this ynar, up slightly f'rom last 
year's $2.3 million mtn. Fox said it has sold about 95 pnr­cent of' thn ad space this ynar. 
Most advertisers arn keeping thnir spots under lock and key, known as "category exr.lusivi­nxnnrtion that, quito f'rankly, hoping to create a sense of' ty," meaning that competing WP don't want anyone nlsn to 
anticipation and mystery. That ads from Coors, Miller and know what it is." tactic worked wonders a gen­other beer makers will be shut Visa spoknsnHLn Michael eration ago for Apple out. Holniek was oqually tightlipped Ctlmputnr Inc., when it intro­Volvo, a first-time Super about his company's spot, duced the Maeintosh computer Bowl advertiser, will only say it which will oxtol t.hn security during the 1984 Super Bowl put together a spot for its nnw f'eatures of' Visa's chock card. with an iconic ad featuring a V-8 sports utility vehide. Is the ad funny? "It is, and runnnr hurling a sledge ham­"Hight now, the [ad] is secrnt, that's all I can toll you right mer against a giant image of' so stay tunod," said John now." Holnick said. Big Brothnr. Maloney, who handles adver­It's also unelear whethor 
Anheuser-Busch, which tising and marketing for Volvo thMe will hn many ads from again will bo a top Super Bowl Cars of North America. "First, Internet companies, as in 1999 advertiser, purchased 10 of' thn part of being on the Super when a slew of' upstart dot­30-sneond commercial spots, Bowl is tho anticipation of coms merrily spent their IPO but isn't saying what it plans what you're going to see. Two, money on Super Bowl ads, only to do. It also will have what's we have a particularly unique to go down the drain later. 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, January 24, 2005 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish win one, lose one 
By DAN TAPETILLO Sports Writer 
Heading into Sunday's meet versus Vanderbilt, the Irish felt almost invincible. 
The team started off the sea­son right with a 6-1 win over Ohio State on Saturday. However, the Irish struggled in carrying that momentum into Sunday's matchup against No. 6 Vanderbilt at the Eck Center. 
The Commodores (3-0) defeated the Irish 6-1, with the lone Irish point coming from junior Lauren Connelly at No. 4 singles. 
Notre Dame struggled early on, failing to claim the doubles point that gave Vanderbilt the 1-0 lead heading into the sin­gles matches. 
The No. 2 Irish pairing of Lauren Connelly and Brook Buck was defeated 9-7 by the Commodores' Amanda Fish and Taka Bertrand. At No. 3 for Notre Dame, senior cap­tain Sarah Jane Connelly and junior Kiki Stastny suffered an 8-0 loss against Vanderbilt's Carolina Ferrell and Amanda Taylor. 
However, the No.2 national­ly-ranked pairing for the Irish, sophomore twins Christian and Catrina Thompson man­aged to defeat the No. 35 ranked duo of Audra Falk and Annie Menees 8-6. 
"Christian played really steady and we were trying to hang in there because Brook and Lauren's match was really dose and knew we had a shot at the double's point," Catrina Thompson said. 
In singles, No. 69 Catrina Thompson played No. 1 for the team, but suffered a 6-2, 6-0 loss to 38th ranked Falk. At No. 2 for the Irish, No. 85 Buck was upset by Bertrand 6­4, 6-2. 
"IBuek has] got to get used to dual matches. It is a differ­ent mentality [compared to the fall season] because once you finish playing doubles, you have to turn right back around to play singles and forget whatever just happened in the doubles match," coach Jay Lauderbaek said. 
At No. 3, Christian Thompson loss to No. 116 Fish 2-6, 7-6 (7-2), 6-4. For the second day in a row, Lauren Connelly won in a match tiebreaker after trailing 6-1 in the tiebreaker at No. 4 over Menees 6-7 (5-7). 6-3, 1-0 (10­6). 
No. 5 Stastny and No. 6 Liz Donahue also lost their singles matches 6-4, 6-3; 7-6 (9-7), 7­5. 
"They've always been a team that competes very well, especially when it comes down to the big points," Lauderback said. 

Notre Dame 6, Ohio State 1 
The Irish came away with an impressive season opener against the No. 49 Buckeyes. 
In doubles, Notre Dame swept Ohio State in all three matches. 
Playing No. 1 for the Irish, the Thompsons defeated Caitlin O'Keefe and Anna Volberg 8-4. At No. 2, Lauren Connelly and Buck defeated the Buckeye's Lindsey Adams and Sonia Ruzimovsky 8-5. Sarah Jane Connelly and Stastny comprised the No. 3 paring and defeated Emily DeCamilla and Meredith Vincent 8-5. 
In singles, Catrina Thompson played No. 1 for the Irish and defeated DeCamilla 6-2, 6-3. The match was Thompson's debut at No. 1. At No. 2, Buck defeated Ohio State's Adams 6-1, 6-1. Christian Thompson, No. 3 for Notre Dame, defeated the Buckeye's O'Keefe ·6-2, 6-0. Other players who won their matches included Lauren Connelly and Stastny. 
"It was the first of the year, so everybody was pretty nerv­ous," Thompson said. "It took us a little bit to get adjusted to their facility, but we pulled it out." 
NOTRE DAME 6, Ohio State 1 at the JESSE OWENS WEST RECREATION CENTER 
SINGLES No. 1: #69 Catrina Thompson (NDJ def. Emily DeCamilla (OSUJ 6-2, 6-3 No. 2: #85 Brook Buck (NO) def. Undsey Adams (OSUJ 6-1,6-1 No. 3: Christian Thompson (NDJ def. Caitlin O'Keefe (OSUJ 6-2. 6-0 No. 4: Laruen Connolly INDJ def. Kristin Messmer (OSU) 6-2,5-7, 1-0 (10-8) No. 5: Kristina Stastny INDJ def. Undsay Bryan (OSU) 6-2, (,-3 No. 6: Sonia Huzimovsky (OSU) def. Liz Donohue (NDJ 6-3,2-6, 1-0 (10-8) 
DOUBLES No. 1: #2 Thompsonfl'hompson (NDJ def. O'Keefe!Anna Volberg (OSU) 8-4 No. 2: Buek!L. Connelly (NDJ def. Adam&!Ruzimovsky IOU) 8-5 No. 3: Sarah Jane Connelly/Stastny (ND) def. DeCamilla!Merndith Vincent (OSU) 8-5 
NOTRE DAME X, OPPONENT at the ECK PAVILLION 
SINGLES No. 1: #38 Audra Falk (VUJ def. # 69. Catrina Thompson (ND) 6-2. 6-0 No. 2: Taka Bortrand (VUJ def. #85 Brook Buck (NDJ 6-4, 6-2 No. 3: #116 Amanda Fish (VU) def. Chris­tian Thompson (Nil) 2-(,, 7-6 (7-2), 6-4 No. 4: Lauren Connelly (NDJ def. Annie Menees IVUJ 6-7 (5-7). 6-3, 1-0 (10-6) No. 5: Amanda Taylor (VUJ def. Kiki Stastny INDJ 6-4, 6<1 No. 6: Carolina Ferrell (VUJ def. Liz Donohue INDJ 7-6 ('J-7J, 7-5 
DOUBLES No. 1: #2 Thompsonfl'hompson (ND) del'. #35. Falk!Menees (VUJ 8-6 No. 2: #20 Bertrand/Fish IVUJ def. Buck/L. Connelly (Nil) 9-7 No. 3: Ferre!VI'aylor (VUJ del'. Sarah .Jane Connelly/Stastny [N])) 8-0 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 
York Mets last season, his 14th year with the team. The Mets cut ties with Franco in December after declining to offer him arbi­tration. 
Franco's 424 saves rank only behind Lee Smith's 478 on the career list. 
The four-time All-Star also 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Indiana and Wisconsin fall to ND 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 

Working overtime, the Irish were taking care of business every day this weekend, seizing control of two Big Ten teams to improve to 4-0 on the season. 
Saturday's 5-2 win over rival Indiana set the stage for a 6-1 victory at Wisconsin on Sunday as the Irish demonstrated endurance, resilience and the determination fans have come to expect. 
"I think everyone did a great job," captain Brent D'Amico said after Saturday's win. "I think we'll continue to see this over the course of the season." 
The team came out strong on Saturday as Stephen Bass and Barry King fmished off the No. 3 opponent from Indiana with ease by a score of 8-3. 
Although Sheeva Parbhu and Eric Langenkamp dropped an 8-5 decision, Ryan Keekley and Brent D'Amico clinched the doubles point for the Irish with their own 8-5 win. 
''I'm very encouraged," coach Bobby Bayliss said after Sat­urday's match. "Third doubles was a real shot in the arm ­those guys take a lot from the team because they're so up and down." 
D'Amico easily disposed of Indiana's Neil Kenner at No. 3, first ofl' the courts with a 6-3, 6­2 win. He was followed by Irackli Akhvlediani at No. 5 with a 6-3, 6-4 win over Dmytro lshtuganov. At No. 6, Patrick Buchanan clinched the match for the Irish with a dramatic two-set finish over John Stone with a 6-1, 7-5 score. 
Parbhu registered the last vic­tory for the Irish with a 6-1, 7­6(10-8) victory at the No.4 spot, after King dropped a 6-3, 6-3 match to Indiana's Hyan Hecht at No.2. 
No. 61 Jakub Praibis had a lucky finish over No. 77 Bass, as the top player in the Irish lineup showed signs of a comeback in the second set. A 7-5 finish in the second set, paired with a 6-4 decision in the first, gave Indiana the final point of the match. 
"Had the match gone to three, Steven would have won," Bayliss said. "l-Ie needed to be a little more patient and a little more opportunistic." 
At the conclusion of the match, the team immediately boarded a bus for Wisconsin for its second match in 25 hours. However, the young and resilient squad was prepared for the challenge of the week­end's back to back matches. 
"I think our conditioning pro­gram's been good and we are ready to handle back to back matches," Bayliss said. 
D'Amico pointed out the value of momentum during a difficult stretch. "It just carries you in," he said. "It's almost easier going into the next match." 
After a slow start where the Irish would lose a close doubles point, every singles match went against the home team in the 6­1 victory. 
Following what Bayliss called an "uncharacteristically poor" performance on Saturday, Langenkamp and Parbhu won 8-6 at No. 2, while Bass and King dropped their own 8-6 at No. 3. The Badgers clinched the point at No. 1 as Keckley and D'Amico lost 9-8(8-6) in the tiebreaker. 
However, the Irish came out on fire in the bottom four of the lineup, as D'Amico posted a speedy 6-1, 6-2 victory followed by Akhvlediani's 6-2, 6-0 win that Bayliss described as "over­whelming." 
Parbhu won 6-2, 6-2 before Buchanan clinched the week­end's second match, winning 6­2, 6-3 at No. 6. 

Although the top two matches were more difficult, Ba<;s record­ed a 7-5, 6-2 win at the top spot and King finished the match with another 7-5, 6-2 victory. 
"It's good to beat anybody on the road and to beat a Big Ten team at their place," Bayliss said. "I do realize that the next four matches coming up are extremely difficult-it'll be interesting to see." 
NOTRE DAME 5, INDIANA 2 at the IU TENNIS CNENTER 
SlNGLES No. 1: #61 Jakub Praibis IIUJ def. #77 Stephen Bass·IND) 6-4, 7-5 No. 2: Hyan Hecht (IUJ del'. #1 B Barry King IND) 6-3, 6-3 No.3: Brent D'Amico (NDJ def. Neil Kenner (IU) 6-3, 6-2 No. 4: Sheeva Parbhu [ND) def. Mike McCarthy (IU) 6-1, 7-6 (10-8) No. 5: lrackli Akhvledian.i (NDJ def. Dmytro lshtuganov (IUJ 6-3, 6-4 No. 6: *Patrick Buchanan (Nil) def. .John Stone (IUJ 6-1,7-5 
DOUBLES No. 1: D'Amico/Ryan Keckley (NDJ def. 1\neht/Stone (IU) 8-5 No. 2: lshtuganov/Praibis (IU) del'. Eric Langnnkamp/Parbhu (ND) 8-5 No. 3: S. Bass/King (NDJ dPf. Ktmnnr/M. McCarthy (IUJ 8-3 
NOTRE DAME 6, WISCONSON 1 at NIELSEN TENNIS STADIUM 
SINGLES No. 1: #77 Stephen Bass (NIJJ dof. Alex Ka~ai'Ov IWJ 7-5, 6-2 No. 2: #113 Barry King (NDJ dnf. .Jeremy Stmkin (WJ 7-5, 6-2 · No. 3: Brent D'Amico (NDJ riel'. Mark Wninig (WJ 6-1, 6-2 No. 4: Sheeva Parbhu (Nil) del'. Elliot Bisnow (W) 6-2, 6-2 No. 5: lraekli Akhvlediani INDJ def. Felipe Bcllido (WJ 6-2, 6-0 No. 6: *l'atriek Buchanan (NDJ def. Brian Ko (WJ 6-2, 6-3 
DOUBLES No. 1: • A. K<L~arov!Lachnzar Kasarov (WJ del'. D'Amico!Hyan Kceklcy (NDJ 9,8 (8-6) No. 2: Eric Langenkamp/l'arhhu IN])) def. Bisnow/Sonkin (WJ 8-6 No. 3: .Jordan Haemisch!Weinig (WJ def. 
S. Bass/King (NDJ 8-6 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

TENNIS 

Roddick advances in Australia 
Associated Press  102nd-ranked Kohlschreiber,  "I don't think I hit the ball as  
Roddick dominated the third  dean as I did in the first thrfle  
MELBOURNE, Australia  - set, breaking the German twice.  matches," Roddick said.  

Andy Roddick overcame some frustrating moments before advancing to the Australian Open quarterfinals on Monday with 6-3, 7-6 (8), 6-1 victory against German qualifier Philipp Kohlschreiber. 
The second-ranked Hoddick lost just three points on his serve in the first set but was more erratic in the second, doubling his number of unforced errors to 12 and throwing his racket to the court after sending a forehand long. 
After taking the tiebreaker on consecutive errors by the 
MLB 





Astros sign former Met Franco 
Associated Press HOUSTON -John Franco agreed to a $700,000, one-year eontract with the I Iouston Astros on Sunday. Franco, 44, is the major league's all-time leader in saves by a left-bander. He was 2-7 with a 5.28 ERA with the New 

ranks second in all-time appear­ances with 1,088, trailing only Jesse Orosco. He is 90-86 with a 
2.84 ERA in his 21-year career. 
Franco gives the Astros a sec­ond left-bander in their bullpen. Mike Gallo went 2-0 with a 4.74 ERA in 69 games with Houston last season. 

C~an1pus ·Bib]~ Studies 
with Fr. Frank Zagorc, c.s.c. 
Tuesdays, 7:30-8:30 pm Starting January 25 316 C~oleman-IVIorse C·enter 
Thb seme>ter rhe studies wi 11 conccnlmt;; on lilt: tiO'>]xl <>fSt. ;\-fatr.h~''''s. All are "-ekome. 
Monday, January 24, 2005 The Obsrrver + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

findoutmore! 

For more information about the participating organizations, job descriptions, and contacts, access The Career Center website: 
o 

Go to http://careercenter.nd.edu/undergrad.php 
o 

Click on Undergraduates, then click on Go IRISH 
o 

Enter your NetiD (AFSID) and Password, then click on Log in 
o 

Click on Search Jobs/Internships 
o Click on Jobs/Internships for Notre Dame Students 
o Scroll down to Keyword Searc~, type in WCIF, then click on Search 
o For an alphabetical list of: -Organizations, click on "Organization" -Positions, click on "Position Title" 

tuesday 
debartolo hall






presentations 
5:30pm 

Burson-Marsteller, public relations (Rm 136) ESPN, finance division (Rm 129) ESPN, sports media (Rm 129) 
rjJ 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME The Career Center 

6:30pm 
Arnold Worldwide, advertising (Rm 126) Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, healthcare and research (Rm 140) Time Inc., magazine publishing (Rm 129) 

7:30pm 

Camp Sweeney, a not-for-profit camp for children with diabetes (Rm 131) HEB Grocery, independently-owned food retailer (Rm 117) What is an Actuary? careers in actuarial science (Rm 136) WPS Resources, electric and gas utility company (Rm 116) 

every college • every major • internships • full-time 




OUND THE NATION 
page 18 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Monday, January 24, 2005 
Men's College Basketball Big East Conference 
NFL 


AP New England Patriots' Deion Branch and David Givens, a former Notre Dame player, celebrate after Branch's 60-yard touchdown reception in the AFC Championship game against the Pittsburgh Steelers on Sunday. 
Patriots stomp Steelers Eagles soar over Falcons 
Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH -Nobody beats Brady and Belichick in a big game, not even Big Ben. 
Tom Brady and Bill Belichick were an unstop­pable combination again for the New England Patriots, exposing all of the Steelers' weaknesses to end their 15-game winning streak and win the AFC championship 41-27 Sun­day night. 
Brady gave the inexperi­enced Ben Roethlisberger a lesson in quarterbacking a championship game, throwing two touchdown passes -one to Deion Branch that gave New England a 10-0 lead in the first quarter. 
Belichick upstaged can't­win -the-big-one Steelers coach Bill Cowher, improv­ing to 9·1 as a playoffs coach and matching Vince Lombardi for the best post· season record in NFL play· ofT history. 
Brady has a record of his own: 8-0 as a postseason quarterback, bettering Troy Aikman's 7-0 record at the start of his playoffs career. 
''I'm just so proud of these players. Our team has played well in big games and this was a huge one," Belichick said. 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA Fireworks soared above the roof of "The Line," A blizzard of glitter swirled in the bitterly cold breeze. Fans toasted their team and each other with beers and hugs. 
It was a Super-sized eel· ebration four years in the making. And quite a relief, too. 
Donovan McNabb & Co. overcame the burden of three straight losses in the NFC championship game 
and  warmed  a  frozen  
city's  heart,  stuffing  
Michael  Vick  and  the  

Atlanta Falcons 27-10 on 
Sunday. McNabb isn't satisfied yet. 
"There's no relief for me," he said. "We'll have relief after the Super Bowl. We set a goal of winning the Super Bowl, not just the NFC. So that's where I'm going. We're excited, but we're not done." 
The Eagles already have soothed a city's fragile psyche, burying the disap­pointment of the last three years and pulling within one victory of Philly's first major pro championship since the 76ers won the NBA title in 1983. 
team 
Syracuse Boston College NOTRE DAME Georgetown Pittsburgh Connecticut Villanova West Virginia Seton Hall Rutgers St. John's Providence 

Big East Overall 
6·0 19·1 5·0 16·0 H 12·4 4-2 12-5 3·2 13·3 3-2 1H 2·3 10·4 1-4 11-5 1-4 9·7 1-4 1-8 1-4 1·8 0·4 9·8 
team 
Connecticut Boston College Rutgers NOTRE DAME Villanova St. John's Pittsburgh West Virginia Syracuse Seton Hall Georgetown Providence 

Women's College Basketball Big East Conference 
Men's Hockey CCHA Conference 

Big Hast overall 
5·0 4·0 4·0 3-2 3-2 
3-3 
3-3 2·3 2·4 2·5 1-5 0·5 
team 
Michigan Ohio State Northern Michigan Nebraska-Omaha Michigan State Bowling Green Alaska Fairbanks lake Superior Miami (Ohio) 
Ferris State , Western Michigan NOTRE DAME 
CCHA 
16·2·0 13·4·1 10·5·3 10·8·2 8·9·1 
1-1·2 
7-10·1 6·7·3 5·10·3 
HH 
5-10·1 3·11'·4 
Men's Hockey NCAA Top 15 
team 
Colorado College (40) Boston College Michigan Minnesota Wisconsin Denver New Hampshire Colgate Cornell Ohio State Boston University North Dakota Harvard Vermont Mass.·lowell 

TENNIS 2005 Australian Open, 9:30 p.m., ESPN2 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 

12·4 13·2 13·3 15·3 10·6 14·3 11-6 11-5 10·7 10·8 6·11 
1-15 
overall 
19·6·1 16·7·3 12·7·5 12·10.2 13·11-2 10·9·3 8·11-1 H3·4 9·13·4 9·14·3 10·1F1 5·16·5 
points 
600 546 507 493 434 358 353 291 266 236 197 163 122 85 64 
IN BRIEF 

Agassi moves into quarterfinals against Federer 
MELBOURNE, Australia -Andre Agassi overcame a record 51 aces by Joachim Johannson on Sunday and set up an Australian Open quarterfi­nal against defending champion Roger Federer. 
Agassi, an eight-time Grand Slam winner and four-time champion in Melbourne, produced one of his great performances to defeat the 6-foot-6 Johansson in the fourth round. 
One of the best returners of serve, the 34-year-old Agassi broke the Swede three times to win 6-7 (4}, 7-6 (5), 7-6 (3), 6-4, 
The 11th-seeded Johansson was pushing the limits on almost every shot. He mixed 66 unforced errors with a remarkable 96 winners, including his aces and service win­ners. 
Johansson surpassed Richard Krajicek's mark of 49 aces in a quar­terfinal loss to Russia's Yevgeny Kafelnikov at the 1999 U.S. Open. 
Mayweather stops Bruseles in eight rounds 
MIAMI -Floyd Mayweather Jr. took a step toward a title in a third weight class by stopping Henry Bruseles with 55 seconds left in the eighth round Saturday night. 
Mayweather, former WBC super featherweight and lightweight cham· pion and pursuing a crown in the 140-pound class, was never in trou­ble as his quick combinations frus­trated Bruseles in the scheduled 12­round bout at American Airlines Arena. 
"I took my time and listened to my corner," Mayweather said. "I knew I would wear him down." 
The 27-year-old Mayweather, of Grand Rapids, Michigan, was effec­tive early with a lead left jab. Bruseles also had no answers for Mayweather's quick rights and left hooks to the head. 
Mayweather now sets his sights on the winner of Arturo Gatti's WBC title defense against James Leija. 
Woods unexpectedly wins 
Buick Invitational 
SAN DIEGO -Eerie fog finally lift­ed and gave way to a bizarre victory by Tiger Woods. 
Ending the longest stroke-play drought of his PGA Tour career, Woods barely made it through a 31­hole Sunday at Torrey Pines by tak­ing advantage of everyone else's mis­takes and one bad break for Charles Howell III to win the Buick Invitational. 
Ultimately, Woods almost made the biggest blunder of all. 
Trying to reach the par-5 18th green in two with a one-shot lead, he hit a 3-iron so badly that it landed on a strip of fairway to the right of the big pond. lie finally ended the sus­pense by making an 18-foot birdie putt to close with a 4-under 68 for a three-shot victory over Ryder Cup captain Tom Lehman, Luke Donald and Howell. 
It was his first stroke-play victory since October 2003. 

around the dial 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Syracuse at Rutgers, 7 p.m., ESPN Oklahoma State at Oklahoma, 9 p.m., ESPN 
WOMEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Duke at North Carolina, 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
Monday, January 24, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NO MEN'S SWIMMING 
Wildcats' speed tops Irish depth as ND loses second Ineet 
Irish swimming posts strong times but fall to No. 14 Northwestern 
"Depth has bnen our strength Scott Coyle. Coyle swept the
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA all ynar long." lwad coach Tim springboard eompetitions with 
Sports Wri1rr 
Wnlsh said. "Whnn we match lirst-plaep, seores of 293.77 and up with Northwnstern, we arc 292.35 in the one-metor and 
IL was a dtwl lwtwnnn tnam opposiln lnams. They havn a three-meter competitions, dnpth and individual sptH~d on fow guys who are nxtremely respectively. Saturday. This limn, sp1wd took fast and are not built on depth. "That was rnally important tlw up1wr hand. Wn havn a lot of depth and we for us to win tho diving ovnnts," 
l>npth has hnnn llw tradn­don't havn a lot to match thnir Welsh said. "Scott did a great mark of tiH' m1111's swim lt~am spnnd." job. Last year they split tho two throughout this snason. But The lr.ish worn lnd by strong boards, this year Seott won 
dPspitP a solid all-around nfTorl individual porformancns by both or them. It was a great against No. 14 Northwnsi.Prn, sophomorn Tim Kegolman. effort from him and also I h n ln a Ill c a nw II p a fn w Kngnlman posted the two lone demonstrates some real IPnglhs shallow in its bid for an first-pla1:11 victories for the improvement from last year as upsPI. in a Ih:{.5-l :{4.5 dnci­tnam in tlw I 00-yard buttnrlly well." sion. (1 minutn. 52.2S snconds) and Tho weekend's mp,ot took 
No. 21 Nolrn Damn ((1-2) knpl 200-yard butterfly (49.2S) place 49 days sineo Notro pacn with Norlhwt~slnrn (4-4) raens. lin lod an Irish attaek Dame's last competition, a eon­through thP nwnt, but could not. that took all four of the top vineing lirst-place finish at thn ovPr-conw !.111• pownrful swim­spots in tho 200-yard P.vent. On Notre Dame Invitational. held ming of Norlhwnsl.nrn's sopho­thn season, Kngnlrnan has 11 Doe. 2-4. Unable to compote mon• Matt c;nwers. a two-limn first-plaen finishes. against thn Irish National Team 
/\11-/\nwrican last Y!Htr. c;rnvnrs "Tim was our MVP as a fresh­during winter break, tho Irish took (:ommand or tho nwnt as man last ynar," Welsh said. had to also contend with being nach of his four swims rnsultnd "lin's bonn our leadnr in thn rusty following tlw long lay­a ehallenging upcoming wtwk­ranked No. 14 and hPing 
in Holfs Aquatic C:nnter buttnrfly nvnnts since hn's bonn ovnr. end. The team will swim at ranknt;l No. 21. Wn want. to lw rnconls. hnrn. In thn Notro Dame invita­"Wo would say that rust was Cleveland Stato and against wlwrn tlw No. 14 is and it's not 
But t.lw Irish wnrP. far from tional. his limn in the 100 but­a factor." Welsh said. "Hacing Canisius rwxt Friday bp,forn easy to do. Ono of tho t.hings wo hning out of thn mnnl. Notrn tnrlly still has him ranknd firth is a skill that gets hotter as you traveling to St. Bonaventure learrwd is that t.ho stops for­DamP rlindwd at !Past two of in tlw country. lin is lngitimale­praetice it and we have not noxt Saturday. ward from lwre are going t.o be thn top thn~n plan~s in I 0 of ly a hig limn swimmnr and ion bonn able to race mueh lately. But tlw Irish hope to loarn a hard steps. It's a hard slnp 
l.hP 14 individual 1wnnts. show­Sal.urdayl he did a great job." Wn thought we did not raee as lot from this wnoknnd's lossons oneo you got. to t.his point on casing thn tPam's dnplh. In thn Notre Dame also controlled well as wn might have. To and take the next step forward tlw laddor IbutI WP want to I00-yard breaslslrokn, for thn diving boards, outscoring Northwestern's credit, they as the Big East Championships take tlwm and w1~'ro learning t~xampln, Northweslnrn's Louis Northwostnrn 28-S in the two raeed extremely well." loom ever closer. how to lake thnm." Torn~s took lirst-place, but the diving nvnnts. The Irish diving Saturday's competition was "What wo saw in rwxt four linishes wero postod allack was spearheadnd by the the final horne meet of tho sea­Northwestnrn is that thnrn is a Contact Rama Guttumukkala at hy Irish swimnwrs. performanee of sophomore son for the Irish, who now faee big difforonec between being rguttumu@nd.edu 

NO WOMEN'S TRACK 
SMC SWIMMING 

Tean1 perforn1s well in 
Belles fall to Kalamazoo Hornets 
With three injured, Saint Mary's takes a tough loss to conference rival

first home competition 
By ANNA FRICANO 
Sports Writer 
Ladies win 10 of 15 events to start season 
By RYAN KIEFER Spons Wrirrr 
By winning I 0 of 15 evnnl'> and ar.hi1wing snvnral personal bosl'>, tho Notre Dame women's track loam dmninatnd tho eompPI.ition in tlwir initial honw meet Friday night at Loftus Centor. 
Though Friday's comp1~tition was a non-scoring mont, the Irish lurrwd in several standout indi­vidual pnrlilrmances. Stars of tho nwnl for tlw Irish indudod two limn winnnrs Maryann Erigha in tho (10-nwlnr and 
importanco of building the confi­dence of some of his younger runners. 
"/\ lot of our runners were run­ning their first meets, or running thoir first meet in a certain event. These moots are important for thmn beeausp, the level of compe­tition gives them an opportunity to succeed. We want to start with success rather than having them try and ehase people down from behind," hn said. 
Staeey Cowan stole the spot­light in tho field events by domi­nating the high jump competi­
tion. She deared 
200-mdnr runs, a height of 1.7S
"We wanl to 

the ehallenge of faeing a team
and Tiffany Gunn meters (5 feet, 10
increase 

with more than twice as many
in tho 400 and inches), an NCAA 
swimmers.
!i00-nwter runs. competition slowly." provisional hP.ight, 
"We knew we were going to
Tlw dislane!~ run­Tim Connelly and just an inch 
be shorthanded, and it would
nnrs worn also and a half shy of
Irish coach 

irnprnssive Friday. 
notching vietories in tho milo and 3,000-nwtnr run. 
Stt~phanie Madia's milo vietory eamn in personal bnsl timn of 4 minutns, 54.35 seconds, while /\rny Kohlmoi1~r won tho 3000 nwlnrs hy almost five sn1:onds in her first race sinee suffnring a broken lng in Deeembnr of 2003. 
"Last Christmas we didn't know if shn would nver be abln to run again. For lwr to eome and win lwr first nu:o baek was quite an accomplishment," said Irish wadt Tim Conrwlly. 
Two Irish fn~shmen performed well in tlwir 11rsl home meet. Dominiqun Manning won tho 60 rnntnr hurdles and Brionno Davis l.urrwd in two sncond placn fin­ishes in tlw f10 and the 200. Coaeh C:onrwlly strnssod tlw day on Saturday, achieving her season's best times in three events. Nowak plaeed 11rst in 
two  events,  the  200-yard  
freestyle  and  the  200-yard  
breaststroke.  

Nowak swam the broaststroke in 2 minutes, 32 seconds, which is only two seconds orr of the sehool reeord that she horsolf set last season. Nowak was pleased with the outcome of her events on Saturday, but didn't feel any extra pressure from her teammates to perform well. 
"Each race I go out and try to do my best, and it turned out well. .. ! think everyone swam very well, the individual swims made up for the score at the end," Nowak said. 
In addition to Nowak, Kelly Nr~lis took 11rst in two events, and Katie Dingeman had one first plaee finish. 
Seniors and eo-captains Michelle Stanforth and Ashley Dyer were both honored in the annual Senior Night that the team celebrated before the meet on Friday. Nelis rel1eetnd on the positive impad that the two have had on tho loam throughout the season. 
"It was kind of bittersweet, thP.y are definitely two great 
loadP.rs that we've had all along," Nelis said. 
Stanforth was pleased by thn support that shn and Dyer received from her tnammatns, as wnll as the outcome of the event. 
"It's hard to bnlieve that we rnado it through four years or collegiate swimming, it was emotional, but in a positivn way," said Stanforth. 
As the season draws to a dose, the Bnlles will have the opportunity to movn ahnad in the conference standings for thn first limn. Af't.nr their first mn­feronce win in two years, whkh occurred two wneks ago against Alma Collego, t.he team seems poised to move up from seventh place into sixth or possibly fifth in the eonfernnco. 
"Basod on thn rnsults of thn season, I absolutely think that we're going to be looking at moving up from snvnnlh plaee," Petcoll' said. 
Thn Bellns will he able to gauge their chanens a littln bol­ter on Saturday whnn tlwy com­pete against confnronce oppo­nnnts Albion and Calvin College. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO I @saintmarys.edu 
Three Saint Mary's swimmers were injured and unable to eompete against Kalamazoo College on Saturday, giving the Belles an obstaele that they were unable to overeome in their eompetition against Kalamazoo College. 
The Hornets defeated the Belles by a seore of 144-71. However, the Belles did not let the unfortunate circumstanee of a deficit of swimmers deter the team from achieving some of thnir best performanees of the season. Coach Gregg Petcoff was espm:ially impressed with how his swimmers stood up to 
her personal best. Cowan won tho competition by five inehes. 
Other winners for the Irish indudnd Brianno Sehmidl in the HOO-metor and Meghan Horn in th11 shot put. 
Ovorall, Connelly was pleasnd with his team's perfi1rmance. "Wo wom nxtrmnely successful 
have bnen easy to get mentally deprnssed, but every single por­son got up ... it's hard to single out a eouple people !who did espcdally wellI." Petcolr said. 
Several members of the loam steppnd up to fill in the gaps for their missing teammates. Sarah Nowak had an especially good 
on Friday. Part of that was due to the level of eompetition, but 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER
that is to be expected in these early menl<;. We want to inerease 
City of South Bend to honor National Championship team
competition slowly as the season 
progrosses," Connolly said. 
Thn Irish will rmnain at home this week as they prepare for next Saturday's Notre Dame Invitational at Loftus Center. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame's 2004 national championship women's soccer team will be recohrnized by tho city of South Bend on Monday, Jan. 24, during the annual State of the City Address at the Century Center Reeital llall. Mayor Stephen Luecke will mention the team dur­ing his address and the City Council then will recognize the team's accomplishments by prn­sonling the Notre Dame squad with the Coundl Hesolution. The event is opnn to thn public and bngins at 6 p.m. The ontirn 2004 tnam and mmnbnrs of thn eurrnnt coaching stall' are oxpnetnd to be in attendanen for thn speeial -. honor. 


F L M 
BROWNING CINEMA 
Tickets $6, $5 faculty/staff, 
$4 seniors, $3 all students 

Tickets go on sale each Monday before the screenings. For more information about these films, please visit http://performingarts.nd.edu. 
Notre Dame Student Film Festival 
Monday, January 24 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
Tuesday, January 25 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
Wednesday, January 26 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 

L'auberge Espagnole {2002) 
Sponsored by the Nanovic Institute 
for European Studies 

Thursday, January 27 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 

I¥ Huckabees {2004) 

Friday, January 28 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
Vertigo ( 1958) PAC ClASSIC 100 Saturday, January 29 at 3 p.m. 

Bright Leaves (2004) 

Saturday, January 29 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 

THEATRE M U S c 
Les Fourberies de Scapin 
by Moliere Philbin Studio Theatre 

Thursday, January 27 at 7:30p.m. Friday, January 28 at 7:30 p.m. Saturday, January 29 at 7:30 p.m. 
Tickets: $8, $7 faculty/staff, $6 seniors, $5 all students 


Othello 

by William Shakespeare Featuring ACTORS FROM THE LoNDON STAGE leighton Concert Hall 
Friday, February 11 at 7:30p.m. Saturday, February 12 at 7:30p.m. 
Tickets: $18, $16 faculty/staff, $16 seniors, $12 all students 

The Laramie Project 
by Moises Kaufman Directed by Anton Juan Decio Mainstage Theatre 

Tuesday, February 22 at 7:30p.m. Wednesday, February 23 at 7:30p.m. Thursday, February 24 at 7:30p.m. Friday, February 25 at 7:30p.m. Saturday, February 26 at 7:30p.m. Sunday, February 27 at 2:30p.m. matinee Tuesday, March 1 at 7:30p.m. Wednesday, March 2 at 7:30p.m. Thursday, March 3 at 7:30p.m. 
The laramie Proiect is part of Spring ArtsFesl: Tolerance and Reconciliation 
Tickets: $12, $10 faculty/staff, $ 1 0 seniors, $8 all students 




DEBARTOLO 
PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
Dead Man Walking 
by Tim Robbins Directed by Siiri Scott and Jay Skelton Philbin Studio Theatre 
Saturday, February 26 at 7:30 p.m. Sunday, February 27 at 2:30p.m. matinee Tuesday, March l at 7:30p.m. Wednesday, March 2 at 7:30 p.m. 
Dead Man Walking is part of Spring ArtsFest: Tolerance and Reconciliation 
Tickets: $12, $10 faculty/staff, $10 seniors, $8 all students 

Arcadia 
by Tom Stoppard Directed by Jay Skelton Decio Main stage Theatre 
Tuesday, April 12 at 7:30p.m. Wednesday, April 13 at 7:30p.m. Thursday, April 14 at 7:30 p.m. Friday, April 15 at7:30 p.m. Saturday, April 16 at 7:30p.m. Sunday, April 17 at 2:30p.m. matinee Tuesday, April19 at 7:30p.m. Wednesday, April 20 at 7:30p.m. Thursday, April 21 at 7:30 p.m. Friday, April 22 at 7:30p.m. Saturday, April 23 at 7:30p.m. 
Tickets: $12, $10 faculty/staff, $1 0 seniors, $8 all students 

The Marian Anderson String Quartet 
Presented by the Fischoff National Chamber Music Association Decio Mainstage Theatre Thursday, January 27 at 7:30p.m. 
This performonce is open to the public and free, but tickets must be obtained through the DeBartolo Box Office. 

The Chieftains SOLD OUT 
leighton Concert Hall Sunday, January 30 at 8 p.m. 

ND Jazz Band, ND Symphonic Band, and ND Symphonic Winds 
Leighton Concert Hall Saturday, February 19 at2:30 p.m. 
This performance is open to the public and free, but tickets must be obtained through the DeBartolo Box Office. 


Jen Chapin 
a VOICe 
a heart 
a consc1ence 

February 20 at 7 p.m. Leighton Concert Hall 
Tickets: $15. $12 fadstaff. 
$1 I serlior·s. $8 all students 
More event information available at http://performingarts.nd.edu 
Call 574.631.2800 for tickets and more information 
Discounted tickets are underwritten by the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. There are a limited number of student discounts available. 
Monday, January 24, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

1 
l 
thoir ganw on both ends of' the points and four steals while ~ 
j 
court. Pondextor had 17 points and 
l
Win 
With tho Irish down 45-40, seven turnovers. I continued from page 24 1
Duffy hit a three-pointer and Batteast was the only Irish I Allen added two f'rne throws player in double figures, but I thPir way. Tlwy st·on~d 10 to tin tlw game f'or the first Duffy finished with seven 
I
l'asl hn~ak points in tlw first time sinco the beginning of' the points and a earner high 11 half'. IH•aling tlw Irish up and first half'. This started a 23-0 assists, eight in the second down tiH• floor. run with 7:4R to play that last­half, for the Irish. Allen added 
"I think that nvnrythi11g that od until Pondoxtnr hit a eight points, six rebounds and rould have wnnt wrong in the jumpor with night soconds to four sto<tls, and Courtney l'irst hall' did," Irish point go and tho Irish up by I R LaVere added nine points and guard MPgan DufTy said. points. nve rebounds. off the bench. 
Hutgt•rs pressured llw ball. "Twonty-threc points'! That's "For as bad as we played, J'orrPd turnovers, and shot crazy," Hutgers eoaeh C. we could have been blown out WPII to nxtPnd its lnad to :~ 1-Vivian Stringnr said of' tho in the first hall'," Batteast 1 S with I :0(, to play in the run. "It was like, 'What the said. "We just made the l'irst hall'. Clwlsoa Nnwton had lwek is going on'!'" adjustments we were sup­I:~ points on 6-f'or-1 :l shooting Notrn Dame's matehup 2-3 posed to [make I. and we in llw f'irst hall'. and Cappin zone hold Hutgers to just 16 ended up winning the game." l'ondoxtor add('() night as the second half' points, two lnss 
NO. 11 NOTRE DAME 63,
Srarlnl Knights shot 46.7 por­than Batteast scored in the 
NO. 6 RUTGERS 47
cPnl l'rom the hall'. 
at the JOYCE CENTEH 
l'io ld on tlw "I thought we hall', to Notre wo n tlw ga m e NOTHE DAME (16-3, 4-2} llanw 's :Hl. 4 "Once we took care of with our zone," Batleast I0-20 6-6 27, Erwin 1-5 2-4 4, 
Borton 1-:1 2-2 4, Dully 2-4 2-2 7, Gray 1­
p o r r ~~ n t the ball better and we McGraw said. 
1 2-2 4. Gaines 0-0 0-0 0, Allen 2-4 4-4 X,
shooting. "Our def'ense in
locked down on 'D.' the ll'Amieo 0-0 0-0 0, LaVere 4-8 1-2 'J. 
llowovor, the second half' 
game went our way."
dospito lll'ing was outstand­RUTGERS (H-4, 4-1) Campbell 0-5 0-0 0, Locke 0-2 0-0 0,
d o w n. :{ I -2 0 ing." 
Carson 0-0 0-0 0 . .Jell 0-3 1-1 1, Newlon
at hall'time, As a team,
Jacqueline Batteast 7-21 3-4 1S, Ajavon 3-11 0-0 7, l'ondexter tho Irish Notrn Dame S-1 'J 0-0 17, Theodoris 2<{ 0-0 4,
Irish forward 

ranw out fir­shot 6:L(> per­Hichman 0-1 0-0 0. ing in tho Sl~e-cent f'rom the 
1st 2nd Total

ond half'. field in the sec­
NOTHE llAME 20 4:1 6:1 
l'w~lod by 12 straight points ond half, contrary to Hutgers' Hutgers :n tb 47 
l'rom Battoast, tlw Irish went wonf'ul 17.1 percent shooting. 3-point goals: Nolrn Dame 2-5 !Dully 1-3. 
on a 12-7 run to start the half. Tho Irish also turned the ball 
Battnast 1-1, LaVere 0-1). Hutgers :1-17 
r ulli 11 g tlw ScarI e t K11 i g h t s over just live times in the half, 
(l'ondexlnr 1-5, Ajavon 1-5, Newton 1-4,IIHtd to 3X-:~2. But Hutgers 11 limos less than the first .lntt 0-31. Fouled out: Nonn. Hnbounds: J'ought haek. as it. extnnded hall'. Nolrn llamo 11-24 !Erwin 9), Hulgors 22­
37 IPondoxlnr b). Assists: Nolrn llarno 17
t.lw load to 40-:{2 with 12:13 "We finally got them to take 
(IJull'y 111. Hutgnrs 9 i.Jett 41. Total fouls:
to play on a lay-up !'rom tougher shots," Batteast said. 
Notre llarnn S, 1\utgors 1 !l. Mariota Tlwodoris. "Onee we took care of the ball Notro Damn pullnd to within bett<~r and we locked down on 4:{-40 on a lay-up l'mm Chan~) '(),' the game went our way." Contact Heather Van Hoegarden Allt•n, and tlwn tlw Irish found Nnwton finished with 1 R at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Hutgers converted into l 9 points.



Batteast 
Despite the pnrformarH~e. Notre Dame didn't quit at tlw
continued from page 24 
half. 

in the form of a 63-47 eomo­"We had a short conversa­from-bohind blowout win over tion about what we needed to a tough, talented Hutgers do," Md;raw said about tho squad. loeker room talk at inlPrmis­
"I think Batteast decided sion. they weren't going to lose," Notre Damn returned to the Rutgers head coach C. Vivian court refocused. Batteast set Stringer said. the tone by giving the Irish a 
That statement. about sums quick four bucknls and tlw up the second half of Sunday's team stnamrolled !'rom thorn, game. leaving Hutgors in disbelief. 
Batteast outscored the entire The kind of' overpowering Hutgers team 1 R-16 in the sec­Notre Dame exorcised on ond half. She seored 27 points Hutgors isn't supposed to hap­on 10-of-20 shooting, didn't pen to a top-1 0 team. The miss any of her six free throws Scarlet Knights are arguably and grabbed six rebounds thr. best team in tlw Big East while turning the ball over just and beat two top-5 teams twice. within a week's time this sea­
The all-American scored son. Notre Dame's llrst eight sec­But that Hutgers team was ond half points to cut the nowhere to be round in the Hutgers advantage to just live final 20 minutes Sunday. with over 17 minutes to play. Batteast made sure of that. She played a key role in get­After frowning, ynlling and ting Notre Dame within in glaring l'or tho tmlirn llrst half', striking distance, then took McGraw had a big smiln on over the game leading Notre her faee during post-game tnl­Dame to 23 straight points twision int11rvinws. To her left between 7 :4R left in the sec­was Batteast, matching that ond half' and 11 seeonds. smile and enjoying another 
As Batteast heated up, her impressive Irish vktory. teammates fed ofT the conll­A game that began so poorly dence and turned up their for Notre Dame turnncl into its games as well. Guard Megan best win of the snason. That's Duffy had a earner-high 11 something that rarely comes assists, Crystal Erwin added a about. career-high nine rebounds and But so is Batteast-a eom­the Irish forced the Scarlet plete playnr that has the abili­Knights into 17.1 percent sec­ty and det11rmination to singln­ond-hall' field goal shooting, handedly lakn control of a and just 1-of-12 from beyond game. the arc. This season, she's turned a 
The comebaek, tlw conl1-very good Notre Damn learn dence, the energy came l'rorn into a ehampionship-c~alibnr one source Sunday-Battoast. team. Al'ter Sunday, Hutgnrs 
This was a game the Irish knows this firsthand. had no business even having a ehance to win after a dread­The opinions expressed in fully awful 11rst half. Notre this column are those of the Dame was held to their lowest author and not necessarily point single half' point total ol' those of The Ohsenwr. 

At top, Irish guard Charel Allen drives on the Rutgers defense during Notre Dame's 63-4 7 win the season -20. They had an Contact Joe 1/ettler at over the Scarlet Knights. At bottom, the Irish celebrate the victory over No. 6 Rutgers. alarming 16 turnovers whieh jhett.ler@ruf. edu. 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, January 24, 2005 


Hoyas 
continued from page 24 
nailed a wide-open 3-pointer with 1:12 left to get the Irish within two at 53-51. After a Georgetown turnover, Ilibbert picked up his fourth foul with 
35.4 seconds remaining, but it was only the I-loyas' lil'th team foul, so the Irish didn't get to shoot bonus free throws. 
After the Irish called a timeout with 17.3 left, Thomas stalled in front of the half-court stripe waiting for the clock to wind down. Oil' a screen from Jordan Cornette, Thomas hit Falls who jumped, pump-faked to avoid the attempted block of Jonathan Wallace and swished a 3-pointer while leaning to his left to give the Irish a 54-53 lead with 5 sec­onds remaining. 
The Hoyas didn't call a timeout to setup a play or to give the Irish a chance to set up their defense. Ashanti Cook took the inbounds pass and drove. to the basket. I le was able to get a shot off past Thomas. Cornette eame over to he! p and try to get a blocked shot, but that left Hibbert wide-open to grab the rebound off Cook's miss for the game-winning dunk. 
The orlicials huddled to view television replays to see if the dunk happened before time expired, but the replays showed the dunk going through the net as the dock changed from .2 to .1 seconds. 
Falls and Chris Quinn led the Irish with 13 points apiece. Thomas had 10, and Dennis Latimore got 10 points as he gained confidence throughout the gamo and took advantage of his increased playing time. 
Brandon Bowman and Jeff Green led the I-loyas, also with 13 points apiece. 
Georgetown used its quickness to push the Irish shooters out past the 3-point line and now allow them to get open looks. That quickness combined with Georgetown's lanky bodies forced the Irish into shooting 9­of-22 from behind the arc. 

The Irish were down 7-4 early, but slowly built a 12-7 lead, highlighted by two 3-pointers from Falls. Then the I Ioyas went on a quick 12-1 run, using 3­pointers from Hay Heed and Bowman. 
The teams stayed close for tlw rest of the half. with no one get­ting more than a four-point advantage. The I Ioyas struggled from the field, making one lield goal in the last four minutes of the half. That one field goal was an uncontested breakaway layup by Cook that tied the game· at 29 going into the locker room. 
The Irish return to the court Wednesday at Villanova, who handed No. 2 Kansas its first loss of the season Saturday, 83-62. 
GEOHGETOWN 55, NOTHE DAME 54 at the MCI CENTEH 
NOTRE DAME (12-4, 4-2) 

Thoma~ 3-11 2-2 10, Quinn 4-10 2-2 13, Cornette 1-3 0-0 3. Falls 3-7 4-5 13. Francis 1-4 0-0 2, lsrPal 0-0 0-0 0, Conwtt 1-I 0-0 2, Lalimom 5-S 0-0 I 0, Carter 0-1 1-2 1. Totals 1 S-45 'J-11 54. 
GEORGETOWN (12-5, 4-2} 

Cook 5-10 0-0 12, Bowman 5-14 2-3 13, Wallaee 0-3 2-2 2, GroPn 4-10 5-6 13, llibbert 5-6 1-2 11, Hood 0-1 0-0 0, 1\oss 0-1 0-0 0, Ow<ms 0-4 1-2 1, Crawford 0-0 0-0 0, Kilkenny-Diaw 0-0 0-0 0. 
1sl  2nd Total  
NOTHE DAME  29  25  54  
Georg1•town  29  26  55  

:!-point goals: Notre Dame. 9-22 (Falls :l­6, Quinn 3-6, Thomas 2-7, Cornell<\ 1-31. Georgetown 4-11! (Cook 2-4, Heed 1-2, Bowman 1-5, Wallace 0-3, OwPns 0-4). Fouled out: None. Hebounds: Notre Dame. 27 (Thomas 6), Georgetown 34 (llibhert 7). Assists: Notre Damn. 11 (Thomas 5), Gnorgntown 9 (Bowman 41. Total l'ouls: Notrn Dame. 16, Gnorgf\town 13. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


Shutout 
continued from page 24 
a power play doctor in here and say okay it's fixed. I just think the word power play is almost freezing them up right now." 
Friday night's game was defined by Notre Dame's inabili­ty to capitalize on the power play. 
The first quar-

Both teams played an extremely physical game, which was exemplified by a fight that broke out behind the Wisconsin net at 7:00 in the second period. 
An Irish player was pushed onto the net, and the goal col­lapsed on Elliot. From there, chaos ensued, as both teams took out their frustrations in a fight that lasted for about two minutes. 
For the Irish, Chris Trick, Joe Zurenko and Matt Amado were called for rough­
ter opened with two quick back­to-hack penalties  "!just think the word power play is  ing after the whis­tle. For Wisc­onsin, John Funk,  
on Wiseonsin. The first came at 3:03 when  almost freezing thetn up right now.''  Josh Engel, Matt Olinger and A.J. Degenhardt were  
Ryan MacMurchy  penalized.  
was whistled for  Dave Poulin  The  Irish  had  
boarding. Notre Dame had several  Irish coach  the 5-on-4 advan­tage, which was  
chances to take  quickly moved to a  

an early lead but could not 5-on-3 when Jeff Likens got two seem to get the puek past Brian minutes for checking from Elliot in Wisconsin's goaL behind. 
At 5:16, Kyle Klubertanz was Poulin called a timeout to set called for roughing. On this up a play, but again, the Irish power play, Notre Dame had its were unable to score. best chances of the entire night Unfortunately for Notre Dame, to score, but again, eould not Wisconsin did not have that seem to finish. problem in the third period, as 
The period ended scoreless, they tacked on another goal at with both teams playing very 5:30. well on defense. Likens fired a shot from the 
The scoring drought did not point, which deflected off last long, however, as MacMurchy's skate into the net. Wisconsin's Robbie Earl scored The goal was MacMurchy's 11th at 5:30 in the second. of the season. 
Notre Dame defenseman Luke Following the loss, Poulin was Lucyk found himself pinned at a loss for explanations. He against the glass in the stressed the fact that his players Wisconsin zone, and Earl picked are having a lot of trouble scor­up the loose puck. Earl easily ing goals and their confidence is beat Irish goalie Morgan Cey for beginning to weaken because of his 12th goal of the season. it. 

"You saw at the end, no one wanted to take the shot. They're forcing it, they are doing uncharacteristic things because of how difficult it is right now," Poulin said. 
The Irish continued to strug­gle on offense Saturday night, as they made the hour and a half drive to Chicago's Allstate Arena to suffer another 2-0 loss to Wiseonsin. 
Hobbie Earl scored again for the Badgers, giving him a two­goal weekend. 
Earl's goal came at 13:39 in the first period, as he skated in from the blue line with the puck and beat Cey for the second straight night. 
Matt Ford scored the Badgers' second goal at 17:43. 
From that point forward, Morgan Cey recorded 27 saves, finishing the game with 34 total saves. It was another impressive outing for Cey in an Irish loss. 
"Morgan's been good and, I don't know what the total num­bers are, but I bet we've had 15 games when we've scored one or zero goals," Poulin said, fol­lowing Friday's loss. 
The Irish played well defen­sively all weekend. Wisconsin came into the game as the 2nd best team on the power play in the nation, and the Irish did an impressive job on the penalty kill -killing 13 of 13 on the weekend. 

"We held them in check pretty well, I thought we did a very good job killing their penalties and they have a great power play," Poulin said on Friday. "As frustrated as the players are and as frustrated as we are, we just have to keep going." 
The Irish will play a home­and-home series with Bowling Green this weekend. The Irish travel to Bowling Green on Friday night and will return to 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 

___M_o_n_d_a-~-j-ai-lu_a_ry--24-.-2-0_0_5-------------------------------Th_e_O__k_er-v-er_+__T_()__D_A_Y__________________________________________p_a-ge-2_3______~1 
DILBERT 
ALICE I I HEAR THAT YOUR PROJECT IS STRESSFUL. 

PEANUTS 

E 
0
.. ~ 
® 
.. ~ 



"0.. 
:: 
0 
M E 
0 
(J 
t: 
~ 
'0 
~ 
~ANG ON! T!-115 iS 601N6 TO BE THE MOST 

~ 
EXCITING RIDE 

!i 

t ~
OF YOUR LIFE~ 

"' 
~ 
.........__ 
C? 
~\._\ 
;z_
~ 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DOPEK 


(J ( j 
C2005 Tribune Med1a Services. Inc. All Rlghls Reserved. 
PENTI 
j


I I r [] 

AN INDIFFERENT ?TUDENT C.AN DO THI? IN A?TRON­
I NAULCY ±



I I ( J 
OMY C.LA??. 
www jumble com 


FASTIE 
j 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I rI ( J 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: ( 



I I I JUP "( I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: CRUSH EVOKE RABBIT PEOPLESaturday's 
Answer: When he bought the jalopy, he ended up with a-"HEAP" OF TROUBLE 
t.i 
.E 
ui
... 
::> 
>­
.D 
1ii 
g 
t.i 
.E 
.,; 
E
.. 
"0 
< 
:: 
0 
s ~ 
0 
g 
"' 
... 
0 
~ 
.!. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
HOW'D THE PEP TALK GO? 

CHARLES SCHULZ 
YOU WERE Rl6f.jT.. Tl-lAT WAS SO E)(CITING I DON'T EVER WANT TO DO IT AGAIN~ 
v 

E 
8 
0. 
" 
~ 8 
li 
I 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 Unexpectedly 67 Earl of_, 1 Drug buster, for 41 Pro favorite of 
Queenshort (proportionally) Elizabeth I5 Apartments 42 Followed 68 Pitching slats, 1 o Arizona city smoothly 
for short 14 Mishmash 43 Natural to a 
15 Scoundrel creature 
DOWN 16 Kuwaiti leader 46 Rocker David 
1 Opposite ofLee
17 Group voting everyone 
the same way 47 Sup 2 That certain 18 Car from Japan 50 "Saturday Night something 19 It may be Fever" group, 3 Violent 
carried with a with ''the" troublemaker guitar 52 "Where the deer 4 Beverage with a 20 Unexpectedly and the marshmallow 23 Dismal, in antelope play" 5 Pledges' group, for short
poetry 54 Unexpectedly 24 Not just anger 58 Shoot (by) 6 Ness 
monster28" out!" 
61 Decree 7 Flulike (ump's call) 

62 Family rooms symptoms
29 Mine finds 
63 Detest 8 Supercharged 
33 Grassy engineArgentine plains 64 Delay leaving 9 Close tightly 34 Gap and Toys 65 Stow cargo 10 Parking ticket'R' Us, e.g. 
66 Reason to put a issuer 36 Verb not in the clothespin on 
11 Flightlessking's English your nose 
Australian bird 12 Break aANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Commandment 13 "__ you old there?" 40 Kind of jacket 
21 Foam 41 "Spare" item at 22 Actress Hagen a barbecue 25 Neat as 44 Snakelike fish 26 Jets or Sharks, 45 Erase 
in "West Side Story" For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a27 Not an exact fig. 

credit card, 1-800-814-551)4. • 
30 Howard of Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday"Happy Days" 
crosswords from the la5+{iO years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. ,.._/­31 Archer of myth 
Online subscriptions: Tod,ty's puzzle and more than :;;!,000 
32 Waste conduit past puzzles, ny1iJ:'oes.co4'1crosswords ($34.95 a year). 34 Telescope user Share tips: ny1imes.cbm/tJ~Zzleforum. Crosswords for young 35 Palm starch solvers: nytimes.com/leatn1ng/xwords. 
.... 

WILLSHORTZ 
"Tommy," ~ith51 Ice creAr' "the" /
conc~uons 
·53 C~'>1!use 59 Owned 
56 LEI'?f!. unit Simpson case ~ .)
• 
EUGENIA LAST 


HOROSCOPE 

CELimRITIES IJORN ON THIS DAY: TiiTani Thiessen, 31; Richard Dean 
Anderson. 55; Gail O'Grady. 42: Mariska Hargitay, 41 
Happy nirthd.ay: This may turn out to be an emotional year. hut only if you haven't taken care of issues that have been hanging over your head for some time. Rid yourself of the burdens you have been carrying around with you, once and for all, and you will see the light at the eml of the tunnel. It's time to stop letting negativity consume you. Instead, light for the positive and you will find yourself in a new headspace. Your numhcrs arc 3, 14, 28, 32. 3K, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't start anything today that will lead to a confrontation with someone you love. You have to keep things light and put your efforts into where you see yourself heading in the future.** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Visiting a friend will lin your spirits and guide you down an interesting new path. You have plenty to conlrihutc, and if you do, you will join forces with someone interesting. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Consider your past and the people you have mel along the way. Someone from your past may he able to help you, hut you must not let him or her take over. Pace yourself and stay in control. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Emotional mailers may he diflicult to deal with today. An older friend or relative may not understand what is going on. Your explanation will help and bring you closer together. *** LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Sudden changes regarding your linancial situation will surprise you. You can make good decisions regarding your health. The more you do to make improvements, the hellcr you will feel. ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Partnerships can be fonned, but make sure that you are both on the same page before making any promises. Once you have your plans laid out, nothing will slop you from achieving your goals. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): What you think is going on and what is really going on will not coincide. Back up and refrain from voicing your opinion until you have a beuer understanding of what everyone else is doing. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Today is all about love, creativity and gelling to the bottom of things. You can lix a lot of the troubled areas in your life if you arc precise, determined and dedicated. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): An older relative will appreciate what you do to help out. Your luck is changing, and you may lind yourself in a windfall. You may have a change or heart. Grovel if you must. *** CAI'RICORN (Occ. 22-Jan. 19): Get down to business and let whoever you care about know what you are thinking and how you feel. It may he your only oprortunity to do what's right and to set the record straight. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fch. II!): You have to take hellcr care of yourself. Set a new regime that will help gel you hac·k into shape using exercise. proper diet and a healthter ltl'estyle. Take the initiative to improve. *** J>ISCI•:s (Feb. 19:March 20): Love and romance arc certainly in the picture. but sots your abtltty to produce something very creative and unusual. Strive to reach your goals and you wi II feel satisfied. ***** 
Uirthduy Baby: You arc sensitive and caring and know how to get things done. You stnve to do Y<~ur best and will take on more than your share in order to help. You are a thoughtlul, kmd and concerned friend. 
Check ol/1 Eux<'nia's Web sites at astmadt•ice.comaml ell!<<'lliala.\·t.com. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The. Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name
Addres_s_____________________________________ City ____________ State ____ Zip_______ 
-
THE OBSERVER 









PORTS
Monday, January 24, 2005 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Major statement 
Irish come back from 
Batteast comes up 11 points down at big in team's win half to beat Rutgers over Scarlet Knights 
By HEATHER Muffet McGraw's body lan­VAN HOEGARDEN guage during Notre Dame's Sports Editor first half against No. 6 Rutgers 
on Sunday explained exactly 
What began as a nightmare how the Irish were playing. for Notre Dame ended in a She sighed. career day for Irish coach She yelled. Mul'f'et McGraw. She stomped 
Down 11 points at halftime, her feet and the No. 11 Irish held thn No. 6 ran a hand Scarlet Knights to 16 second through her half points en route to a 63-4 7 hair. win, McGraw's 400th at the No doubt, helm of the Irish. McGraw and 
Irish forward Jacqueline the rest of Batteast had 18 of her 27 the Joyce points in the second half as Center she shot 10-for-20 from the crowd had 
field and fi-for-6 from the line. 
"It just feels great to win this game," McGraw said. "I think this was a really impor­tant game for us, especially at home." 
Notre Dame (16-3, 4-2 in the Big East) dug itself a hole early, as the Irish turned the ball over 16 times in the first half, leading to 19 Rutgers (13-4, 4-1) points. The Irish only led for less than a minute in the first half, as Teresa Borton scored off the opening tip to make it 2-0. 
But Rutgers immediately responded, scoring five unan­swered points, and the Scarlet Knights appeared to be on 
see WIN/page 21 


Joe Hettler 
Sports Writer 

trouble watching the first 20 min­utes between Notre Dame and Rutgers, as the Scarlet Knights Ambarrassed the Irish en route to a 31-20 halftime lead -a lead that could have, and probably should have, been a lot more. 
After being beaten around for so long and so badly, how did the Irish deal with such a poor first-half performance'! 
A little locker room talk and a lot of Jacqueline Batteast. 
Batteast, for the umpteenth time during her illustrious career. put the team on her shoulders and brought the 
Dame's 63-47 win over the No. Knights. At top right, Notre Dame guard Megan Irish to victory lane -this one 

HOCKEY 



Irish drop pair of games to Badgers1 
Duffy defends against Scarlet Knights. 
By BOB GRIFFIN Sports Writer 
Following Friday night's loss to the fifth-ranked Wisconsin Badgers, the question remained as to what was colder, the bliz­zard outside the Joyce Center or the Irish offense 
inside of it. 
The Irish (5-16-5) dropped both games to the Badgers (19­6-1) this weekend, losing 2-0 in each game. 
To say that the Irish have had trouble scoring goals lately would be an understatement. It­is becoming a team wide eiJi­demic where players are simply tentative about shooting the puck. 

Notre Dame had their chances all weekend, but could not get it done despite numerous oppor­tunities on the power play. 
"I think what happens is it's a self defeating thing, its almost psychological," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "You want to bring 
see SHUTOUT/page 22 

Irish bench celebrates their win over the 
see BATTEAST/page 21 
~Hoyas Win vvith last-second dunk 
ByMATTLOZAR Sports Writer 
It looked like Colin Falls had given the Irish another escape act on the road. .,..­
-.. But ther~ was too ;nueh tirne left on the clock ~-five seconds too much. ' 1 
A two-handed dunk~ 7­foot-2 Roy Hibbert as c,ime expired gave the Hoyas (12-5, 4-2 in the Big East) a 55-54 win over the Irish (12-4, 4-2) Sunday at the MCI Center. 
The Irish were losing 53-48 with less than four minutes remaining. Chris Thomas 
see HOYAS/page 22 

WOMEN'S TRACK
en 
SMC SWIMMING 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER
MEN'S SWIMMING 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
MEN'S TENNIS 

1--Uol 

NO off to a fast 
Irish to be
Kalamazoo 19~ 
Notre Dame splits 
~ N'western 163.5S 
Team improves to

start 
honored by city
Saint Mary's 7
z Notre Dame 134. 
over weekend 
4-0 on the year
s 

The squad dominated 
The Belles were short-

The mayor of South
The Irish fell to 6-2 on 
The team defeated 
The Irish took care of

= competition at non-scor-
Bend will honor the
handed this weekend as 
Ohio State but lost to
= c:c the season after falling 
Indiana and Wisconsin 


ing meet at Loftus this
they fell to the Hornets. 
national champions 
Vanderbilt.

short in their attempt to 
this weekend. 

=: weekend. 
tonight during a public
upset the No. 14 
address.
Wildcats. 
page 19
page 19 
page 19

page 19 
page 16 
page 16 








