


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 57 THURSDAY. NOVEMBER 17,2005 NDSMCOllSERVER.COM 


Infractions consistent over last three years 
By MADDIE HANNA 
A,sociate News Editor 
Mention "HesLife" among a group of Notre Damn students and a chorus of voices will undoubtndly jump in, eager to share a tale or two. 
But how many students have actually been there? And what are they really there for? 
Statistks released by the Oflice of Hesidence Life and Housing show relatively consistent num­bers for the past three academic years -which followed major changes to the University's alco­hoi policy in the spring of 2002. 
During the 2004-05 academic year, 1,019 disciplinary incidents were reported to the Office of Hesidence Life and Housing, com­pared to 1,074 cases during the 2003-04 year and 1,246 cases during the 2002-03 year. 
"It's my impression that Notre Dame has a low safety net," said Kelly Lawrence, assistant direetor of the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. "Students are proba­bly more likely to go through the disciplinary system and alcohol education system here than at other schools, maybe for more minor problems that would be ignored if we had a student popu­lation of 30,000." 

And a fair number of them go through it again. During the 2004-05 academic year, 32 per­cent of disciplinary ineidents reported to the Orficc of 
see STATS/pagc 9 

Other
2004-5 IDcn 
Intoxication 
~c 
·-0
....J.­
..... 

C/)CTJ Q)_o 

Parking Violations
a:> 


Programs foster feminist atmosphere 


By EMILY LAVELLE AND 
LAUREN LAVELLE 
News Writers 
Hditor's Note: This is the second in a three-part series examining the perception of feminism within the 5iaint Mary's community. 
Despite some disagreement about its role at Saint Mary's, f'ominisrn arises in class­rooms, dorm rooms and fac­ulty ollicos at the Collngn on a daily basis. 
Saint Mary's is making progress in its attnmpts to ernatn f'nminism-orinntnd dia­logue, s1weral mnmbnrs of the Collngll community said. 
The inclusion of a Women's 
Studies program is one of the see FEMINISM/page 8 
Council deadlocks on Catholic Worker House 
ways the College has succeed­ed in educating students about the feminist movement. The program, founded in 1984, was re-energized with the 2001 hiring of Astrid Henry, who now serves as its director. 
"Having a full-time coordi­nator for [women's studiesJ has worked miracles, espe­cially since that full-time coordinator is Astrid Henry," said assistant English profes­sor Linnea Vacca, who has been involved in the program since its start. "She has spearheaded real initiatives toward growth. I Henry I has added more courses, created a more coherent structure balancing theory and content courses, and encouraged per-

GEOFF MATTESONffhe Observer Residents of the Peter Claver Catholic Worker House In South Bend gather for dinner every evening. 
KELLY HIGGINSffhe Observer 

Astrid Henry, director of the Saint Mary's Women's Studies pro­gram, leads a class Tuesday. 
By SARAH WHEATON 
News Wri1er 
After two hours of emotional testimony, the South Bend Common Council deadlocked Monday night over the zoning sta­tus of the Peter Claver Catholic Worker House. 
The year-long controversy cen­ters around whether or not the South Bend house, which shelters homeless people, can continue to operate in its current single-family zoned property. 
The Council split 4-4 over the Catholic Worker house's petition to rezone its 1126 West Washington St. property as a mul­tifamily residence. 
Concerned citizens packed the council's meeting room in antici­pation of llle decision. 

Supporters of the Catholic Worker petition wore white rib­bons and included guests of the house, neighbors. Notre Dame professors and students and the pastors of Sacred Heart, St. Adalbert's, St. Joseph's and Christ the King pari'ihes. 
Letters of support from University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh and Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John D'Arcy were also read. 
The opponents of the zone change were also present in force, including some neighbors, several South Bend residents including one Notre Dame employee, and South Bend Mayor Steven Luecke. 
Margie Phiel and Michael 
see WORK/page 9 


STUDENT SENATE 

Voters say Zahrn is no 'House' 
By MADDIE HANNA 
Associate News Editor 
Student Senate was all business Wednesday night ­almost. 
Senators quickly passed three resolutions amending the Student Union constitu­tion but denied a resolution to formally recognize Zahm Hall as "Zahm House," a topic that sparked debate and stirred a few heated dorm rivalries. 
Judicial Council president James Leito and vice presi­dent of elections Peter Van Loon presented two resolu­tions on amending election and Judicial Council proce­dures, noting problems that arose during the student body elections last spring. 
"We believe they're pretty much necessary," Van Loon said. 
The first resolution, which Leito described as "cosmet­ic," calls for additional time for student body president and vice president candi­dates to collect the 700 sig­natures required before they can officially begin cam­paigning. 
The signature requirement jumped from 300 to 700 two years ago. 
"For you non-math majors, that's over a 100 percent increase," Leito said. "It's a pretty big ordeal." 
see SENATE/page 6 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, November 17, 2005 

INSIDE COLUMN 

My kind of fen1inisn1 

When I came to Saint Mary's I did not consider myself a fi.~minist. I could not deny that in some instances men are bet­ter than women, and women are better than men in others. 
I also could not deny the fact that I Kelly Higgins enjoyed the special treatment that 
Saint Mary's 

came from being a 
Photo Editor

girl. It is nice to have the door held open tor me and to know I will never be drafted. With these opinions, I was sure I did not qualifY. 
After coming to Saint Mary's, with its relatively diverse population when it comes to women's rights, I learned that my outlook on life and the sexes actually has a name -compatablist feminism. 
Compatablist feminists believe that there are differences between men and women and that with these differences come strengths and weaknesses. Neither sex is better than the other, nor are they equal. Because men and women are not the same they deserve not equal but equitable treatment. 
This means that women should be treated with the same amount of respect and dignity that all humans deserve. Both sexes should have the capability to strive for whatever station they desire in life. Because men and women have dif­ferent strengths, we develop an interde­pendent relationship in order to maxi­mize on these strengths. I believe that our society and Saint Mary's are set up in a way to allow this to happen. 
Now many people will read this and think: "What? That is not what a femi­nist is." It is important to recognize that there are other school'> of feminism. liberal feminism is what most people think of as feminism, which is not sur­prising because they are activist-based and the most vocal. 
When you think of feminists burning their bras, growing their armpit hair, and bashing men, they are who you are thinking of. I believe that their spirit, enthusiasm and hope toward a better life are impressive. 
However, I begin to disagree when they deny the differences between the sexes and start to blame men for many of their problems. It seems as though many feminists have lost sight of the idea of equality and have begun striving for dominance. 
As a believer in equity of rights for all humans, I cannot agree with this. Further, I cannot agree with those who say marriage and motherhood are wrong or backward concepts. I hope to one day be a mother and a wife and to work together with my husband to teach my children to respect not only the oppo­site sex but all people. 
Not all liberal feminists are as extreme as I have described, but in reality that is the image that comes to mind when the word feminist is used. I know it is what I thought of before I came to Saint Mary's. 
I am thankful that I have learned that the way I view the world is a brand of feminism that I am proud of. I have accepted my gifts as well as my weak­nesses as a woman because of it. I hope that society can begin to realize the other faces of feminism: ones of equity and respect instead of radicalism and man­hating. 
Contact Kelly Higgins at khiggiO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a reporting error, The Observer incorrectly stat­ed in the Nov. 16 issue that the lecture given by Suzan Shown Harjo was the fourth lecrure in the first year series "Who Counts in the United States?" Harjo was the second guest speaker in the Saint Mary's College Office ofMulticultrual Affairs' Diversity Series. The Observer regrets the error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF WHEN YOU HEAR THE WORD 'FEMINISM'? 






Jennifer Warfel Sarina Kopacz Taylor Williams Kate Ross Chris Scaperlanda Mike Kaiser 
senior sophomore sophomore freshman senior freshman Anunciata Holy Cross LeMans McGlinn Keough Morrissey 
"Madwoman in "People all for "/think of "Gloria Steinem "Honoring and "/think of the Attic." women's man-haters." -the mother of upholding the Professor rights." modern dignity of Brogan, who feminism." women, and teaches my respecting them feminist as such." literature 

OFFBEAT 
Drunken drivers may get they'll think twice." near the Great Smoky bright pink license plates The bill also says police Mountains National Park. 
CLEARWATER, Fla. -A "may stop any vehicle that "The dog was emaciated Florida state senator bears a DUI plate without and had some bruising, wants to require convicted probable cause to check but was able to walk drunken drivers to have the driver." around," Ranger Rick license plates that start Ohio and Michigan have Brown said after spending with "DUI." similar laws in place. several hours Tuesday rig­
The proposed law would Other states have debated ging up ropes and rap­also require bright pink the issue, but failed to pelling down the hole to license plates on vehicles pass it due to privacy rea­lift the 2 1/2-year-old driven by people with sons. blond Mountain Cur to the restricted driving privi­surface. leges due to convictions Dog rescued from giant "Aside from being ema­for driving under the influ­sinkhole after 16 days ciated, exhausted and ence. TOWNSEND, Tenn. -sore, the dog appeared to 
"Maybe it will embarrass Trapped for 16 days down be in pretty good shape," people and keep them a 70-foot-sinkhole, a dog Brown said. from drinking and driv­named Buck will live to ing," State Sen. Mike hunt another day after Information compiled Fasano said. "Maybe being rescued by rangers from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 
X 
~ 
1.&.1 
~ 
..... 
< 
(,) 
0 








class." 
IN BRIEF 
Susan Peters, Vice President of General Electric, will speak on the roles of women in corpo­rate America at 7 p.m. tonight in The Little Theater in Moreau Hall. 
Graham Beal, director of The Detroit Institute of Art, will give a lecture on his museum's plans to reinstall its works the­matically rather than chrono­logically at 7:30 p.m. tonight in the Annenberg Auditorium. 
Today's Campus tours, open to the general public, will leave from the Eck Visitors' Center Lobby at 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. They are led by a student tour guide and last an hour and fif­teen minutes. 
Joyce Chai, assistant profes­sor of computer science and engineering at Michigan State University, will present an IBM lecture entitled "Robust Input Interpretation in Multimodal Conversational Systems," in room 356 of Fitzpatrick Hall today at 3:30 p.m. The lecture is sponsored by the Department of Computer Science and Engineering. 
Asian Allure, an event cele­brating Asian heritage and cul­ture at Notre Dame, will take place Friday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
University President Emeritus Father Edward Malloy will be signing copies of his new book, "Monk's Notre Dame," Friday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. in Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 




HIGH 29 HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH
..... 47 
LOW 20 LOW LOW LOW LOW 
32 

Atlanta 61 I 33 Boston 65 I 47 Chicago 37 I 20 Denver 48 I 34 Houston 62 I 36 Los Angeles 83 1 53 Minneapolis 24 1 11 New York 67 I 44 Philadelphia 70 I 39 Phoenix 80 I 53 Seattle 52 I 41 St. Louis 40 I 19 Tampa 83 162 Washington 68 139 
Thursday, November 17, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Saint Mary's Shovvcase of Careers creates job opportunities 
By KATIE KOHLER Nt·w,Writer 
l>espitP high winds and snow l'lurrins, students packed HnignbtHlliX Lounge in l.nMans llall at Saint Mary's lilf the annual Showcase of Carnnrs that ran from :~ to 6 p.m. Wndru~sday. 
With morn than 45 companies prnsnnt this year, there wnrn plenty of opportunities for stu­dents to make profnssional eon­lads for l'uturn jobs and intnrn­ships. Tlw earner fair W<L<; optm to students of all ages from Saint Mary's, Notrn Damn and Holy Cross. 
Dirnetor of thn Saint Mary's Center for Carner Opportunities .Jell' Hobert.-; said Saint Mary's hao; om~rml some sort of career fair fitr morn than :m years. 
"It is a good starting point for studnnts," Hobt~rts said. "If they d1oos1~ to fitllow-up with a phone call or an intnrvinw. then the chance, of course, inereao;es." 
Attending dons not guarantee studt~nts intnrvit~ws or jobs, Hoht~rts said. but it certainly inermLo;ns their chances. 
"Tbnrn is a dnfinite eorrnlation, hownver, bntwmm thn number or organizations a studnnt talks to and the opportunities they create from thn job fitir," he said. 
Michael Sandnrs, director of Indiana Cawnrs at Saint Mary's and assistant professor in the business departnwnt, said the Showeasn of earners was very lwrwfkial for job-hunting stu­dent.-;. 
"To my knowlndge, students havn gottnn jobs aftnr eoming to thn showeasn," Sanders said. 
"ISaint Mary's I invito nmployers to the fair that like to hirn our stu­dtmts." 
.Juniors and seniors, who are bt~ginning to l'nnl t.hn pressure to secure a job af'ter graduation, wnre the biggest groups repre­sented, Sandnrs said. llowever, underdasswomen also attnnded to get a jump-start on thn job market. 
"I am hem mainly to gnt infor­mation, not necessarily f'ind a job," freshman .Jayde Kennedy said. "I wanted to come so that it could help me see what kinds of things I could do with my major." 
Hoberts made a elear ell'ort to invite a variety of companies to campus li1r the student<;. 
"We extended invites to over 300 companies so that the stu­dent-; could have a cornucopia of options and career paths to choose from," Hobert-; said. 
Hoberts and Sanders also worked in conjunction with stu­dent-; so they knew what compa­nies to speak to and what compa­nies would be best for their field of study. 
"We make sure they lthe stu­dents] know who is here," Sanders said. "We make introduc­tions and give them information so that nothing is overlooked." 
Organizations represented ranged from non-profit and post­graduate volunteer programs to banks, the military, the FBI, labo­ratory internships and many oth­ers. Tho companies that could not physically be present still left information about their company and the opportunity for interested student<; to leave a rcsmne. 
"We are looking for someone with a profflssional image who would like to stay relatively in the Michiana area," said Abigail Zahner of 1st Source Bank. "We recruit from schools in the area, namely !USB, Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Ivy Tech." 

When asked about the success ofjob fairs in the past. she said, "I have definitely seen success in the past because if students are will­ing to make the effort to come out and get information, they are most likely willing to get onboard in the future." 
Senior Lindsay Cook said having several dozen organizations right on campus is quite convenient. 
"It is nice that [companies] come to us because during the school year, it is hard to go out and distribute your resume to eompanies," Cook said. "I mean, I would still be proactive about it, but overall, it is easier that all the companies are in one place right here." 

Representatives said they were looking fi.1r students with a wide variety of majors and specific interests. 
"We aren't just looking for writ­ers or artists," said Aaron Woodsworthy, publicity director at the Writer's Center of Indiana. "We are looking for people who are passionate about hnlping peo­ple and want to positively afTeet the community." 
The Writer's Center of Indiana makes appearances at one or two career fairs per year. It was at such an event where executive director Emily Wat'ion was hired. 
"I think it is a good opportunity for students, and we come to Saint Mary's because we already have connections here and want to make those connections big­ger," Watson said. 
Some eompanies were just look­ing for summer candidates. Chemist Beth Blaktlslee of Dow AhrroSdnnees, said she was con­tacted by the chemistry depart­ment at Saint Mary's and was interested in hiring interns for the summer. 
"We have had a lot of success recruiting for chemistry, but this year we are looking specilically for interns, not full-time work­ers," Blakeslee said. 
Be it internships, full-time work aft.nr graduation or simply gaining inlimnation and insight on a par­ticular field. the Saint Mary's Showcase of Careers created opportunities for students of all ages and majors. 
"More student-; were exposed to many different companins and types of work, giving them a greater possibility of getting a position in the future," Hoborts said. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO1@saintmarys.edu 

J~·t6 §enuaJ Jfdmi&s~OM/. ·t7 
~UNIVERSITY OF 

WNOTREDAME

Tickets available at LaFun Box Office 
----------------------------------------~~-------------------------------------------. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 17, 2005 




Speaker shares fears of terror 
Professor calls concerns about border vulnerability well-founded 
By RYAN SYLDIK News Writer 
Jimmy Gurule, professor of law in the Notre Dame Law School and former Undersecretary for Enforcement in the U.S. Department of the Treasury, presented a lecture on "The Need for Immigration Heform in the War on Terror" Wednesday. 
The lecture, which focused on issues of terrorism, border secu­rity and global trade, was part of an ongoing lecture series featur­ing Latino and minority speak­ers sponsored by Notre Dame's Institute for Latino Studies. 
In addition to his work with the Treasury, Gurule has also worked for the U.S. Department of Justice and as a federal pros­ecutor in Los Angeles. 
Gurule, an expert on interna­tional criminal law with regards to terrorism, terrorist financing and the prevention of money­laundering, set the tone for his discussion by saying, "Terrorism, border security and global trade all intersect." 
"In August 2001, I was sworn in as Undersecretary of Enforcement at the Treasury Department," he said. 
There, he was in charge of 30,000 people and a $5 billion­per-year budget. Just a month after he took office, on Sept. 11, 2001, everything changed. 
"I was in my office at the Treasury Department and felt the explosion of the plane that hit the Pentagon," he said. "At that point, we moved security to the highest level." 
Gurule, who went on to draft and implement the U.S. Government's anti-terrorist fmancing strategy, discussed the unintended consequences of securing the border in that high­security post-Sept. 11 environ­ment. 

"One very interesting thing happened," Gurule said. "We saw lines of traffic back up that were six to eight to ten hours long at the border. We need to understand and appreciate that we live in a small, interdepend­ent world." 
Gurule went on to discuss future threats. The media has focused heavily on preventing the entry of undocumented workers, he said, who are not a security threat. Instead, he said a container or a vehicle with an explosive or even weapon of mass destruction should be the main concern. 
"The fear a WMD could be smuggled across the border is well-founded," he said as he described how the millennium bomb plot involving AI Qaeda terrorist Ahmed Ressam was foiled by an observant customs agent. 
The practicalities and limita­tions of protecting the borders were also discussed. Gurule noted that in 2003, 412.8 million people were processed and 132 million conveyances entered the country. 
"Searching everyone is neither practical nor justifiable," Gurule said. 
In addition, he also mentioned the threat posed at seaports. 
"Nine million containers are unloaded every year," he said. "Conceivably, any one could serve as a carrier for a nuclear device. Not every container can be searched." 
Gurule addressed this by explaining how gamma X-ray machines scan suspicious con­tainers. He also cited the largely successful Container Security Initiative, in which U.S. customs inspectors check containers before departure at foreign ports rather than at arrival at 
U.S. ports as a way to not only keep the U.S. safer, but also to speed up the inspection process benefiting security and trade alike. 
However, Gurule was much more critical of other post-Sept. 11 reforms. 
"There is no bigger bureau­cracy than the Department of Homeland Security," he said, adding that merging 20 very dif­ferent agencies creates severe problems with regards to direc­tion and efficiency. He said among other things, the separa­tion of U.S. Customs Service from the Treasury and its subse­quent division into two agencies undermined morale in the agency. 
Gurule also warned of old habits creeping back into the system. 
"Sometimes we're our worst enemy," he said. "We weren't very good at intelligence-sharing before 9/11." 
Though he stated that Sept. 11 had changed that attitude, he also said, "That attitude has become retrenched." 
Gurule ended his discussion with a message for Notre Dame students. 
"The one message I want to communicate is that this whole issue of terrorism will be here for years to come," Gurule said. "I hope that Notre Dame stu­dents will dedicate themselves to public service so as to defeat it. We need the best and the bright­est to solve this problem." 
Contact Ryan Syldik at rsyldik@nd.edu
• 

ECDC ANNUAL BOOK FAIR 
When: Nov. 14-18 &21, 2005, 8:00 a.m.-5:15p.m. Where: ECDC-ND and ECDC-SMC (ECDC-ND is located on Bulla Road across from O'Hara Grace Residences, ECDC-SMC is located in Havican Hall on the Saint Mary's Campus) What: Scholastic Book Fair with a wide selection of quality children's books for preschoolers through upper elementary grades, including chapter books. Cookbooks and other books great for families are also available for purchase. How: Come and check out the wide selection of quality books available. Pay by cash, check or credit card. Why: SUPPORT ECDCI Great holiday-gifts. All funds raised will go towards the purchase of educational materials for ECDC. 


TV's favorite doofus shares life experiences 

By MARECELA BERRIOS 
News Writer 

Steve Urkel spoke to a full house Wednesday night. 
Jaleel White, who played the goofy Urkel on the television show "Family Matters," shared some of his experiences in show business with an ample DeBartolo audience. 
Before the lecture began, stu­dents eager to meet their child­hood hero discussed not only White's unforgettable moments, but also the legacy of "Family Matters," the second-longest running show featuring pre­dominantly African-American characters in the history of tele­vision. 
"The show itself was solid," said seniors Blake Johnson and 
White almost played Bill Cosby's youngest offspring in "The Cosby Show," but at the very last minute, Cosby changed his mind and decided to make Rudy a girl instead of a boy. 
"Had I gotten that part, my life would've been different, but nobody knows in which ways," White said. "Perhaps I would've missed out on countless great experiences." 
It is this same optimism that later also made him the most memorable character on "Family Matters." 
White believes Urkel's tram­poline to fame was the episode in which his character is bom­barded by pies in a remarkably humorous fight. 
He was hesitant at first to become the show's buffoon, since he was already being 
Annie Desir. "Its portrayal of a strong, African-American mid­dle class family -who was also funny -really became a role model for our community." 
"Jaleel White-as Stephan or Kel-was looking fine," senior Rhea Boyd said. "What is even more incredible, though, is that he really was a positive and prominent African-American male figure on television throughout our adolescent years." 
The "Family Matters" star opened to a thunder of applause, and touched on an array of issues that included his parents' efforts to keep their son in school and unpreten­tious, despite the fact he was earning $100,000 per episode. 
"My mother wanted me to know the value of a dollar," White said. "When you earn something, when you've worked hard for it, you learn to appre­ciate it more, and I thank my parents for teaching that." 
White said he was not even aware of his six-figure salary until the third season of "Family Matters," since his parents wanted him to act driven by "the love of the game," rather than monetary compensation. 
He also spoke of some of the difficulties he encountered throughout the nine seasons that "Family Matters" was on the air, such as the struggle in his post-puberty years to main­tain the high-pitched voice that characterized Steve Urkel. 
Another private anecdote he shared with the Notre Dame audience pertained to another well-known African-American family program. 
harassed at school for his quirky performances onscreen. 
However, the pie fight episode made Steve Urkel a household name. 
"I decided to be a team player, a professional, and let the punches roll," White said. 
"That attitude got me center positioning in the show, and opened a world of opportuni­ties." 
From that day on, ABC pro­moted Steve Urkel more than any other character on "Family Matters," or in the network's popular TGIF lineup, White said. 
White also made reference to his reluctance to participate in shows like "The Surreal Life" or "Dancing with the Stars," where formerly well-known actors desperately assemble for an additional five minutes in the spotlight. 
"I let my work define me," White said. ''I'm not in it for the attention. Every time you see me on the screen you can be sure it is because I really do believe in what I am doing." 
Students who attended the lecture seemed more than satis­fied with White's presentation. 
Junior Crystal Erwin was even lucky to do the Steve Urkel dance with him on stage. 
"As an FTT major from California, I could relate to some of his Hollywood experi­ences, which is incredible because he's somebody I've watched growing up," Erwin said. "I feel like today I got to know him on a more personal basis." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, November 17, 2005 COMPI LED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
First human cases of bird flu found 
BELIIN<i-China confirmed its first two human easns of bird f'lu on the mainland Wndru~sday, including at least one fatality, as thn govnrnrnent nu~nd to vaecinatn billions or ehieknns, ducks and othnr poultry in a massivn efl(u·t to stop tlw spn~ad or the virus. 
Tlw govnrnrnnnt suspnetnd a third ease or bird llu in a 12-ynar-old girl who died, but her body was crmnated lwl'orn it could b1~ tested. 
The llnalth Ministry r.onlirrnnd easns in a poultry worknr who dim! and a IJ-year-old boy who l'dl ill hut recovnrml. the ollieial Xinhua News Ag~~ncy said. It said the boy's 12-year-old sister, who died, was recordnd as a suspneted 
1~ase. 
Experts an~ espndally worried about thn pollmt.ial li1r bird llu to spread and mutate in China hn1:ause of its vast poultry flocks and tlwir dose contaet with people. 
Spain seeks explanation from CIA 
MAI>HIJ>-Heports ol' alleged CIA usn ol' Spain as a stopov1~r point for transporting suspncted Islamic terrorists spread Wednesday to thn Canary Islands, where the n~gional govnrnrnnnt said it had asked Madrid to explain if airports there were also used for covert 111 issions. 
Tlw Spanish archipelago olT west Africa joins tlw Mediterranean island ol' Mallorca in tlw eon troversy. 
Interior Minister .Jose Antonio Alonso said Ttwsday a judge is investigating rnports that at least I 0 f'lights landed in Mallorea as part of thn CIA's program ol' "extraordinary rendition," in which sus­pediHl terrorists are taken without court approval to third countries for qunstioning and possibly subj11eted to ill treatment. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Anti-drug investigators arrested 
WASIIINCTON -Guatemala's top anti­drug invnstigators have been arrested on charges thny conspired to import and dis­tribute cocaine in the United States after heing lun~d to America for what they thought was training on fighting drug traf­fkknrs. 
A throe-count indictment issued Wednesday by a fedora! grand jury in Washington names /\dan Castillo, chief of c;uatnrnala's spP.eial anti-drug polien force, who has lamented the slow pace of progress in combating cocaine smugglers in GuatiHnala. Also indicted wnre Jorge Aguilar (iareia, Castillo's dnputy, and Buhilio Orlando Palacios, anotlwr policn oi'Jieial. 

Mental exam ordered for shooter 
.JACKSBOIW. Tnnn. A judge Wodnesday ordon~d a mental nvalualion for a 14-year-olcl boy being held in a school shooting that left an administrator dnad and two ollwrs wounded. 
Special Juvnniln Court Judge Miehanl Davis said lw wants thn exam pnrl'ormed lwl'ore lw dneidcs wlwther Knnnoth Bartley should lw trim! as an adult. lie set a Jan. 31 court datn to !war <trgumonts. 
Wed nosclay's 10-rn in u t n lw a ring was Bartley's first since tho Nov. H shooting at Campbell County Comprchensivn High School. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Storm, tornado cleanup begins 
CANNI•:I.BUHC, Ind. -Debris from shat­ll~n~d honws, farms and businesses litlernd a wide swath of rural southern and contra! Indiana as cleanup work began Wndnesday from a storm that spawned at least thren 1~onfirmed tornadoos thn day before. 
Onn of those tornadoes left extnnsivn wrnekagn in J>avinss and Martin eountins midway between Evansville and Bloomington, whern local oflieials said at lnast 60 homos were considered unlivable and doznns mom were damaged. 


Woodward claim disputes leak charges 
Post editor's account says Libby not first to reveal CIA operative's identity 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Bob Woodward's version of when and where he learned the idnntity of a CIA opera­tive contradicts a speeial prosneutor's contention that Vice President Dick Cheney's top aide was the first to make the disclosure to reporters. 
Attorneys for the aide, I. Lewis "Scooter" Libby, described Wednesday's statement by the Washington Post's assistant managing editor as helpful for their defense, although Libby is chargnd with lying to a grand jury and the FBI, not with disdosing the CIA ollkial's name. 
"llopnl'ully, as infill'lnation is obtained from rnporters likn Bob Woodward, the real facts will come out." lawyer Ted Wells said Wndnesday. 
Woodward, a Pulitzer Prize winning reporter, said he had not told his bosses until last month that he had learned about Yalnrie Plame's identity and her work at the CIA mom than two years ago from a high­level Bush administration ollicial. 

When Woodward learned Plamn's name, he told The Associated Press decades the identity of Columnist Hobert Novnk government ol'l'i1~ial to Wednesday, he was in the "Deep Throat," a key source disclosed Plame's identity rev1Htl Plame's identity to middle of finishing a book in that reporting. and her work at the CIA on reportnrs in summer 2003. about the administration's Woodward said he had July 14, 2003, eight days Legal expnrts said deeision to go to war in apologized !'or not giving after her husband, .Josnph Wednesday the diselosurn Iraq, and didn't want to be Downie much earlier notice Wilson, a former ambassa­that Woodward had a subpoenaed to testily. of his reporting on Plame. dor, had accused the White sourcn -who was not 
"The grand jury was To critics who are taking llouse of misreprcsnnting Libby -could bn usml by going and reporters were shots at him, Woodward intelligence to justify the Libby's lawyers to bolstnr being jailed, and I hunkered said, "Journalism is a con­Iraq war. their claim that Plame's down more than I usually tact sport. I was 29 when Libby, Cheney's former identity was common do," Woodward said, people who really knew how chief of staff, was indicted knowlndgn among govern­explaining why he waited so to sh,oot were around," last month on charges that ment oflieials and rnportnrs. long to tflll Post Executive refnrring to Watergate. he lind to FBI agents and a "Much was made ol' tlw Editor Leonard Downie Jr. Because his source in the grand jury about when hn fad that Libby snt all of this what he knew about the leak ease has refus11d to be learned Plarne's idnntity and in motion, that hn was llw Plame matter. idnntil'ied publicly, how he subsequently dis­lirst government of'ficial to 
Woodward made his Woodward said his hands closed it to reportnrs. rnvnal this," said former name with his coverage of are tied. "We can't tell the Special prosecutor Patrick J>nputy Attorney Cnneral the Watnrgate scandal dur­whole story. I would like to. Fitzgerald, in announcing Erie II. Holder Jr., now a ing the Nixon administra­It's one that will be told the charges, portrayed defense att.ornny in tion. lie kept secret for some day," he said. Libby as the first high-level Washington. 

IRAQ 


Interior Minister: Prisoners include all sects 
Associated Press 

BAGIIJ>AU -A top Interior Ministry official said Wednesday the 173 malnourished prisoners round by U.S. forces ineluded all Iraqi sects, playing down allegations of a campaign by Shiitn-led security forces to supprnss Sunni Arabs ahead of next month's Pleetion. 
Thn Shiite-led government sought to darnpnn Sunni outrage ovnr rove­lations Tuesday by Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari that the detainees, some showing signs of torture, were fi1und last weekend by 
U.S. troops at an Interior Ministry loekup in the capital. Most were bnlievnd to be Sunni Arabs, the leading group in tho insurgency. 
But the deputy interior minister, Maj. Gen. Hussein Kamal, said the detainees also ineluded Shiites, Kurds and Turkomen. lie gavn no breakdown. 
President Jalal Talabani said there was "no place for torture and porsn­cution in the new Iraq" and that anyone involved "would be sevornly punishnd." 
And government spokesman Laith Kubba defended the Interior Ministry, saying all the detainees were legally arrested and most were referred to courts for prosecution. They were kept at the detention centnr in the Jadriyah distriet because of a lack of jail space. he said. 
"The Interior Ministry is doing its job at a difficult time and some mis­takes happen," he said. 
That did little to assuage Sunni Arab anger, with Sunni politicians saying the Jadriyah center was not the only place where detainees are 
tortured. Sunni lnadPr Adnan ai­Dulairni said lw had complainnd to tho government about abuses at throe Interior Ministry compounds. 
lin and s1wnral other Sunni politi­cians demanded an international inquiry. Some allegnd that Shiite-led security forces wern trying to intimi­date Sunnis from voting in tlw Dnc. 15 parliament nleetions. Many Sunnis saw tlw hand of Shiitn-domi­natnd Iran. whieh ol'f'nred sanctuary to many Iraqi Shiites during Saddam lluss1~in's Sunni-lnd roginw. 
"Sornn govnrnmnnt officials want to keep the Sunnis away from tlw next nloctions by tnrrorizing us," Saad Farhan, a Sunni merchant in Hamadi, said, adding his brother and cousin had been held in Jadriyah. "We believe that Iran's agents are behind it because normal and genuine Iraqis never do this." 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 17, 2005 


S.I.S.T.A.H offers lesson in offensive language 
"These new policies, added to become] aware, and recognizeBy KELLY MEEHAN the handbook iri 2004, are to that there are people out there News Writer 
ensure an environment free of who are interested," she said. discrimination," Johnson said. "The campus can grow, and we 
The challenge of facilitating Prior to working at Saint can have even greater report open and honest discussion Mary's, Johnson lived in Ann with communities and the about race, sexuality and disabil­Arbor, Mich. where she said she Midwest." ities was one that the Saint was practically unaware of Sophomore panelist Jeanne Mary's Student Diversity Board diversity issues. Choquehuanca encouraged the hoped to overcome at "It seemed that diversity was audience to remember that Wednesday night's second solved in Ann Arbor," she said. . change starts with just one per­
S.I.S.T.A.H. discussion, "What Johnson felt differently after son. Not to Say," in Vander Vannet coming to Saint Mary's in 2000, "If some is discriminating, Theater. where she faced instances of dis­stand up against it," she said. 
SDB president Amanda crimination. As an African­"Even if it doesn't hurt you, it Shropshire welcomed 50 stu­American in the diverse city of hurts someone. Everyone is vul­dents and faculty members to Ann Arbor, she said the idea of a nerable." the hour-long discussion led by stereotype was mind-boggling to Johnson agreed, and added SDB advisor and Multicultural her. that if hurtful words were taken Affairs director Terri Johnson, "The most direct experience out of print and vocabulary there SDB vice president Clara Landry [with discrimination] was when would be a defined change in and a panel comprised of SDB someone told me I don't belong society. members who have experienced here," she said. "Who are they to "If one person is hurt, if one discrimination. say that? You don't tell me person is killed; does it matter?" 
Landry explained that the goal where to go or what to do." she asked. "What if it is you that after starting college she experi­pus." of "What Not to Say" was to Sophomore panelist Mary is hurt, or your family? Then enced culture shock and found · Senior audience member Katie facilitate honest and neutral con­Catenacci, who suffers from does it matter? It is important to herself becoming introverted. Kelly said that she attended the versations about stereotypes and learning disabilities including recognize that when hurtful She found that people related discussion to become more con­to end the "sugarcoated" effects dyslexia, said she also felt dis­things are said someone is hurt to her based on the stereotypes scious of these issues. of being politically correct. crimination at Saint Mary's when and the damage is done." of African-Americans they wit­''I'm going to make mistakes 
"It is important to be sensitive her work-study advisor told her Landry said she noticed most nessed in media, which made and hope people can forgive to the person you are talking to," she was not fit for the job after discriminatory comments at her feel uncomfortable. me," she said. "I am just so lucky Landry said. "If you want to she struggled to comprehend Saint Mary's are not stated in the "People were coming up to me to have women like you share know, ask genuinely. Don't be complicated written instructions. open; rather they are said in a and saying things like 'Hey girl!"' this information with me." caught up in being so P.C." "I have worked my whole life hidden, passive manner in pri­she said. I am just as sophisticat­Johnson said the best way to 
Johnson said one of the best to get to this point and to be told vate conversations. She pressed ed as everyone else in this room, increase open conversation is accomplishments of SDB was its I should not be here is very dis­for this to change, so that people and I do not need to be through feeling comfortable work to change the College's appointing," she said. "This led would be more inquisitive and in addressed that way." about asking questions, knowing harassment policy in the student me into depression. But I eventu­turn learn the truth behind Shropshire encouraged every­the right way to approach peo­handbook to now prohibit physi­ally learned I should be here, stereotypes. one to politely ask questions ple, being open-minded and sim­cal and verbal harassment based and that I am worthy of being a Shropshire said when she was about the correct racial termi­ply creating genuine friendships on physical characteristics, Saint Mary's woman." moving in to her dorm freshman nology, not to just assume some­with others. which includes a violation of a Catenacci said the College's year a man approached her and one's preferences. This is how "See people as individuals, student or faculty member's only assistance for learning dis­told her there was a spill on the they will learn the right things to learn to understand them as a race, ethnicity, disability, reli­abled students is extended time third floor. say and not hurt other people, person," she said. gion, age, sexuality and political for test-taking, but hopes that "I just kind of looked at him she said. "Words can kill. They cut away stance. discussion will lead to increased and was like, 'Oh, OK,"' she said. "Maybe you don't [discrimi­at a person." 
Previously the handbook had aid. Shropshire said prior to nate]," she said. "Maybe your solely prohibited sexual and gen­"I hope 'What Not to Say' is attending Saint Mary;s she con­friends don't do it, but it hap­Contact Kelly Meehan at der harassment. one step to get people [to sidered herself an extrovert, but pens, right here on this cam-kmeehaO 1 @smc.edu 



Senate 
continued from page 1 
Under the current rules. students can start obtaining petitions on the first Tuesday of classes of the second semester and must file them by Wednesday of the follow­ing week. The resolution, which was approved without opposition, pushes the filing deadline to Friday. 
The other resolution tackles frustrations faced by Judicial Council concerning its duties during election season, implementing a simple majority rule and lengthening the time period the Council has to consider allegations. 
A significant problem encountered by Judicial Council last spring was not being able to meet quorum ­the minimum number of members required for a vote to be legitimate. 
One of the Judicial Council's roles is to investi­gate potential instances of campaign misconduct, "to convene if any allegations come up," Van Loon said. 
But last year Election Committee member.s were unable to consider two of the four allegations that came before them due to decreased attendance at meetings, said Van Loon, who served on the Committee last year. 
"Basically, they were just dropped dead," he said. 
"If there's a violation, and it's a serious one -and there were serious ones last year -they do need to be investi­gated," Leito said. 

The resolution drops the number of members required to vote at Election Committee meetings from 21 to 14 -a simple majority of the 27­member Committee. 
While Judicial Council is "trying to put a few checks in place, to block off time" for emergency meetings during election, Leito said former Judicial Council president Brin Anderson wrote these recommendations in her transition report. This reso­lution also passed without opposition. 
The third resolution passed by Senate eliminates the "so called idea of a pocket-veto" by the student 
and this inconsistency should be resolved," the resolution read, noting that Morrissey Manor and Sorin College have already shed the "Hall" in their names and "such names and cultures build community among the stu­dent body." 
Dillon senator Dan Brown opposed the resolution based on three points. 
"I kind of get the sense that Zahm is trying to leave the impression they're a fraterni­ty," something "very con­trary" to the University's beliefs and culture, Brown said. 
"And the general rule of 
human nature ­
body president, said St. Edwards's sen­ator Fred Thwaites, a member of the  "I kind ofget the sense that Zahm is trying to leave the impression they,re  you cannot give yourself a nick­name," Brown said, referencing a Seinfeld episode where George  
Oversight com­mittee respon­ a fraternity.,,  Kostanza learns this lesson.  
sible for resolution.  the  Dan Brown  Finally, Brown pushed for gen­ 
The  resolu­ Dillon Hall senator  der equality.  
tion  says  the  "Notre  Dame  
student  body  has a  good tradi­ 

president must inform Senate tion of affirmative action. of the reasons for not signing Zahm would be the third the bill. dorm to have something 
"We just have to hope if we other than 'hall' -that's pass it, they'll sign it," three male dorms, no female Thwaites joked, provoking dorms," Brown said. "Two laughter. female dorms need to change 
The laughter continued their names before Zahm can when Zahm senator and do so." Residence Life committee Student body president member Pat Knapp presented Dave Baron said the resolu­a resolution advocating that tion wasn't ridiculous. students recognizing Zahm "Zahm Hall's one of the Hall as Zahm House. most unique dorms on cam­
"Zahm Hall is commonly pus," Baron said. "I think referred to but not formally that's great, it fosters dorm recognized as Zahm House, identity ... I don't have a 
problem [with the resolu­tion]." It was a close vote, but the resolution failed to pass. 
Two speakers addressed the Senate from the podium at the beginning of the meet­ing. 
Senior Ashley Lucchese, president of the Dance Company of Notre Dame, spoke about her group's frus­tration with restricted access to the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Last semester, when the Dance Company's secretary contacted spoke at the podium to pro­mote the upcoming World Aids Day 2005 events at Notre Dame. 
A pre-med student, DeStephano said he returned from an International Summer Service Learning Project in Africa "very moved by the experience." 
"I saw what conditions they were facing, how little atten­tion was paid to the issues [of HIV and AIDS]," he said. 
Noticing Notre Dame's "lit­tle attention to global health 
issues," the 
worldwide 
DPAC Director  Executive John  "Zahm Hall,s one of  stigma associated  
Haynes about trying to get space for one of its biannual per­ the most unique dorms on campus. ,,  with AIDS and media coverage of  
formances,  "his  the  recent  
response  came  as  Dave Baron  G8 summit  
quite a shock to us," Lucchese said.  student body president  and Live 8 concert,  
Haynes referred to  DeStephano  
student groups using  and  other  

DPAC space "with incremen­organizers thought it would tal costs ... thus suggesting be a good time to participate that our inability to [pay fees] in World Aids Day -an was one of the reasons we internationally recognized may never dance there," campaign that has drawn the Lucchese said, also noting participation of 30 other uni­that Haynes compared DPAC versities. "to a museum that makes "We want to raise general curatorial decisions" about awareness through dorm what art hangs on its walls. education nights," 
"The lack of student voice, DeStephano said, "then take the failure to take us serious­a more nuanced look through ly, the lack to give us the two panels." respect we deserve" was The panels will take place most disturbing, she said. at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune 
University Affairs commit­Ballroom -"Catholicism and tee chair Matt Walsh said his the Fight Against AIDS" on committee would be working Nov. 30 and "AIDS in the 21st with Lucchese and the Dance Century" on Dec 1. Company of Notre Dame to confront the issue. Contact Maddie Hanna at 
Senior Chris DeStephano mhannal@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Thursday, November 17, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 10 674.76 -11.68
Jones ' 
'~ 
Composite Volu 1,061 2,362,026.26 
AMEX 1,689.30 .-3.92~ NASDAQ 2, Ig7_93 +1.19 NYSE 7':•518.98 +9~60 S&PSOO I ,231.21 +2.20 
NIKK£1(Tokyo) 1'4,226.29 +255.42 
FTSE IOO(London) 5,430.00 -9.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.87 +0.24 27.7~ NASDAQ II 0 TR (QQQQ) +0.61 + 1.25 40.77 SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI) +3.21 +0.23 7.40 INTEL CP (INTC) -0.84 -0.21 24.87 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -0.29 -0.05 17.22 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -1.41 -0.67 46.7~ I0-YEAR NOTE -1.60 -0.73 44.8~ 5-YEAR NOTE -1.60 -0.72 44.3C 3-MONTH BILL -0.08 -0.03 39.12 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.90 57.8E GOLD ($!Troy oz.) +10.10 479.1( PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 0.00 88.7~ 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
118.900 EURO 
0.856 POUND 
0.582 CANADIAN$ 
1.193 
IN BRIEF 
Documents show chemical risks 
WASHINGTON -DuPont Co. hid studies 
showing the risks of a Teflon-related chemical 
usnd to line candy wrappers, pizza boxes, 
microwave popcorn bags and hundreds of 
othnr food containers, according to internal 
company documents and a former employee. 
Thn dwmieal Zonyl can rub ofT the liner and gnt into food. Oncn in a person's body, it can break down into perfluorooctanoic acid and its salts, known as PFOA, a related chemical usnd in thn making of Tnflon-coated cook­warn. 
The Environmental Protection Agency has bnnn trying to dedde whether to classify PFOA as a "liknly" human cardnogen. The Food and Drug Administration. in a letter released Wndrwsday flVening by DuPont, said it was continuing to monitor the safety of PFOA dwmieals in food. 
Thn DuPont doeuments were made public Wednnsday by the Environmental Working Group, a research and advocacy organization. 
Ford to pay for Explorer accident 
MIAMI -A jury has ordered the Ford Motor Co. to pay morn than $61 million to the family of a 17-yoar-old boy killed in a roll-over accident when his friend feel asleep while driving an Explornr. 
Ford was liable in the accident because it sold a vehido with poor handling and stability, the jury said Tuesday. 
The company planned to appeal, a spokes­woman said W1~dnnsday. 
The family of Lance Crossman Hall claimed Jiord knnw the Exploror was prone to roll-overs and failnd to warn consumers about the vehi­eJp's dnlclcts. 
I<'ord blanwd dnfeetive Firostone tires for the J·:xplornr's handling and stability problnms, and tho company knowingly continued to produce unsafn vnhides, Bruen Kastnr, an attorney for tlw family, said Wndnnsday. 
"This tragie accident occurred when the driv­Pr of tho vehicle fell aslnep at the wheel while travnling at highway speeds. Heal-world experi­ence and testing show that the Explorer is a safn vnhidn. mnsistently performing as well as or bettm· than other vnhides in its dass," Ford spoktlswonutn Karen Shaughnessy said. 




Delta, pilots in court over reduced pay 
Bankruptcy court asked to void contract in financial crisis, reducing wages, benefits 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Delta Air Lines Inc. asked a U.S. Bankruptcy Court judge Wednesday to void its con­tract with Delta's pilots' union so the beleaguered airline can impose deep wage and benefit euts and avoid further financial ero­sion. 
With sevnral uniformed Delta pilots looking on in· a standing room-only court­room, Delta attorney Jack Gallagher said the airline valued its pilots and tried to nngotiate reductions, but ultimatnly failed. 
Faced with rising fuel eosts, Delta is seeking to slash $325 million from its collective bargaining agree­ment with its pilots, saying the money is needed to kenp its operations running. The ALPA, which has offered $90.7 million in concessions, has threatened to strike if the court grants Delta's request. 
"The need is $325 million of cash. That is what our investment bankers tell us. That's what our creditor committee tells us, Ghallager said. "ALPA is fervnntly urging the court to say it isn't so. We're telling them it is so. We wish we didn't need $325 million of 
cash. But the need is real." to begin with." although Delta maintains a tion based on year-to-date 
The hearing started with Beatty denied Simon's strike would cripple the actual earnings by people union attorney Bruce Simon request, saying that her company and force a shut­employed throughout last asking U.S. Bankruptcy comments, made in jest, down. year and up to Sept. 16 of Judge Prudence Carter were misinterpreted. In court papers filed this year. It does not indude Beatty to remove herself Beatty could decide Monday, Delta called a proposed pilot pay rate from deciding on the union immediately on the compa­potential strike a "murder­reductions. Junior pilots contract, claiming Beatty ny's request to void the con­suicide" that would elimi­make considerably less, showed bias through com­tract, although it's consid­nate every job at the com­while senior pilots in some ments in earlier court hear­ered likely she will give the pany. The airline also cases make more. The type ings in which she said pilots sides up to 30 more days to argued that, under the of aircraft a pilot flies also wages were "hideously reach an agreement before Hailway Labor Act, a strike is a factor in the pay scale. high." deciding on her own. would be illegal. If the court approves the 
Simon cited a Nov. 10 In Atlanta Tuesday, 800 Delta pilots currently cuts, they would be on top Associated Press story in pilots' union members and earn an average of of $1 billion in annual eon­which Beatty was quoted as spouses rallied in support $169,393 a year, according cessions the pilots agreed to saying: "What's really weird of the union's position, to a company bankruptcy in a live-year deal reached is that anyone agreed to insisting the threat of a court filing. The document in 2004. That deal included pay them that much money strike was not a bluff, says the figure is a projec-a 32.5 percent pay eut. 

L.A. Times to make second year of staff cuts 
' 

Baquet blamed the newsroom cuts After the cuts, the Times will still
A..sociated Press 

on rising newsprint costs and declin­have the country's second-largest 
LOS ANGELES -In the latest high­ing revenue -challenges familiar to newsgathering staff among newspa­pronte job cuts in the newspaper the newspaper industry. Like many pers, according to Baquet. On its Web industry, the Los Angeles Times newspapers, the Times, which is site Wednesday, the paper said it now announced Wednesday it is cutting owned by Chicago-based Tribune Co., has about 1,032 editorial positions. about 85 newsroom positions, or has been experiencing circulation Baquet promised to "handle these approximately 8 percent of its edito­declines: For the six-month period stafi reductions as humanely as pos­rial staff. ended Sept. 30, the paper's eircula­sible" and said the paper will contin­
Some of the cuts already have tion declined nearly 4 percent to ue to provide r<~aders with "pownrful come through attrition and some will 843,432 copies. stories and photography." eome through a voluntary separation "Still, this is our second straight The paper, which has won 1;{ program, editor Dean Baquet wrote year of staff reductions, and this is a Pulitzer Prizes since 2000. said it in an e-mail to stall'. The balance will painful announcement to make," would expand coverage in somn come through layo!Ts by year's end. wrote Baquet, who became the top areas, including local and rngional 
Employees have until Nov. 25 to editor at the nation's fourth-largest news. apply for the voluntary pmgram, the newspaper less than four months "Now more than ever, we eontinun terms of which were to be detailed to ago. "It is one I've worked hard to to be committed to the Times' mis­the paper's staff later Wednesday. avoid." sion of being th11 definitive voke in 
Publisher Jell' Johnson told employ­Another round of cuts had been Southern California," Johnson, the ees in a snparate memo that job cuts rumored for weeks and created ten­publisher, wrote. "Our readers and in other departments will be sion among the staff. On Tuesday, advertisers nxpnd that wn eovnr announced over the next three Baquet had announced the paper's their world in a way no other media weeks, as will initiatives to improve weekly section Outdoors was being eompany can both in print and eirculation and ad revenue. eliminated. online." 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 17, 2005 
zations on campus in order to find feminism at the College, however. Many members of the Saint Mary's community said the single-sex aspect of the College lends itself to a natural focus on feminism in the class­room. 
Krista Hoefle, Gallery Director and an assistant professor of art, said that feminism is an inherent part of the education at Saint Mary's. 
"Themes of feminism are woven into the courses," Hoefle said. "You have to address those issues because it's on the mind of many students." 
Henry said she believes the inclusion of feminism in the academics is an understood aspect of the curriculum. 
"Even professors who don't teach Women's Studies classes, because they are at a women's college, tend to do projects focused on women," Henry said. "That is one of the byproducts of being at an all-women's col­lege. It's really part of that organic feminism that's in the air." 
Contact Emily La Velie and Lauren Lavelle at elavelO 1 @saintmarys.edu llavel@saintmarys.edu 


Fe01inisD1 
continued from page 1 
sons from all disciplines to incorporate Women's Studies materials into their courses." 
The number of students in the program has more than quadrupled since Henry's arrival four years ago. She attributed the growth to stu­dents' eagerness to finally discuss 
great, the student interest in the subject is really growing, and it feels like some­thing is really happening." 
Senior Women's Studies minor Maryann Senesac said her life has been altered because of exposure to classes associated with the minor. 
"My intro class made me real­ize that I always held feminist beliefs, but was afraid to say it," she said. "It was a decision to identify with feminism, and now I'm proud of that decision." 
The courses in the Women's Studies program planted the seed of feminism, Senesac said, and she hopes to plant that seed in others. 
"I want to touch the future and inspire them to question beliefs, society and people in power," she said. 
The Women's Studies program is not the only entity on campus that fosters feminism. Feminist United has also been a distinct voice in women's rights and feminist issues since its forma­tion three years ago. The objec­tives of the student group include improving awareness of feminist issues, providing a link between the Women's Studies program and the campus at large and drawing attention to specific women's issues, accord­ing to the group's Web site. Amanda Caddy, president of Feminist United, said the group has an even more specific goal for this year. 
"We are trying to show peo­ple that feminism isn't scary," Caddy said. "We want women to embrace the values of feminism, instead of the stigma that's associated with it." 
Henry, who serves as the fac­ulty advisor, said the group accomplishes this in a variety of 
ways. 
"They've done a lot of activi­ties around film screenings, they've had activities for Love Your Body Day, and they've done things in the past for women's history day in March," Henry said. "They also have weekly meetings to talk about whatever issues concerning women's rights are circulating at the moment." 
Henry said the membership of the group includes a broad range of students. 
"The leadership are mainly not Women's Studies students, which is kind of interesting," Henry said. "This maybe sug-· gests a good thing, that femi­nism and women's issues aren't isolated to the classroom." 
In the spring of 2005, Feminist United gave birth to the Straight and Gay Alliance (SAGA), which also incorporates the themes of feminism in its mission. SAGA president Sarah Medina said although the group may not deal with feminism directly, it communicates the values of feminism on deeper levels. 

"SAGA is a group that pro­motes equality, understanding and a safe community for all. To me, that is the core of femi­nism," she said. 
Medina said members of the Saint Mary's community can benefit from the presence of groups like SAGA and Feminist United on campus. 
"I think feminism will contin­
ue to be such a 
core part of our 
feministic ideals education at
"My intro class made 
and issues in a Saint Mary's," classroom setting. · me realize that I Medina said. 
"The school always held feminist "As we move was ready for a along, I think
beliefs, but was afraid 
person in that Saint
to say it.,,
women's studies Mary's is to come in, becoming more Henry said. "The Maryann Senesac feminist. We energy is really learn and live
Saint Mary's senior 
fostering feminist activism and femi­nist culture on cam­pus," she said. 
The center is staffed by 20 com­munity women and students who work to pursue its mis­sion. Kelly said the work of these women will help create an ongoing dialogue about fem­inist issues among members of the campus. 
"I believe that 

feminism in our 
everyday lives." 
Groups like SAGA and Feminist United are able to remain active on campus due in part to the Women's Resource Center. The center, which began as a student-pro­pelled idea in 1992, is now housed in the new Student Center, and is the place many women-oriented campus groups call home. Senior Katie Kelly serves as the director of the center and acknowledges the importance of its presence. 
"The Women's Resource Center's mission is focused on opportunities for Saint Mary's students to experience other cultures. It assists in the College's study abroad pro­grams, as well as independent research projects. Women who 
"As we move along I think that Saint Mary's is becoming more feminist. We learn and live feminism in our everyday lives.,, 
Sarah Medina SAGA president 
do take advan­tage of the opportunities provided by CWIL often focus their research on women of dif­ferent back­grounds, race, religion and nationality, according to the organiza­tion's Web site. CWIL director Elaine Meyer­Lee said femi­
SMC is a strong supporter of feminism and can only grow in further support of feminist atti­tudes, beliefs and actions with the assistance of the Women's Resource Center and the many motivated leaders on campus," Kelly said. 
Feministic ideals are also pro­pelled by the work of The Center for Women Intercultural Leadership (CWIL). The organi­zation is dedicated to providing nistic goals are attained when women are allowed to broaden their horizons. 
"Our very special role is to make it clear that part of women being equals includes all people being equal," Meyer-Lee said. "You can't have feminism without also working against racism and encouraging cultur­al skills and competence." 
Students do not have to rely on the formal clubs and organi­






any ideas? 
apply for the committee 
submit a design 
positions available: vice-president 
drop-off proposed artwork in the Student Activities
marketing coordinator 
Office in 315 LaFortune. Artwork should be in an
unveiling coordinator 
envelope with name and contact information
web designer apply online at http:l/theshirt.nd.edu/2006 application deadline is Wednesday, Nov. 23 
the deadline to submit artwork is Friday, Dec. 2 
Thursday, November 17, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
who livns in the house and a 2003 The managers decided to take around the world under the idnals house from IJ a.m. to 5 p.m. graduate of Notre Dame's Masters his advice and did not apply for of the movement founded by Mondays through Fridays. All of

Work 
in Peaen Studies program, dis­rezoning at this time. Dorothy Day. It has drawn many the house funds eome from pnr­ab•lwJd with this assessment. In June the house received volunteers from the Notre Dame sonal donations or dmrehes.
continued from page I 
"Our dosest neighbor has two another notice, stating that if they and South Bend community. Mir.hael Balbor, a guest of the Baxter, two Notre Dame theology small children," Cussen said. did not rectify the situation or "The Catholic Worker is a move­house since July of 2004 who now professors who co-founded the "There arn kids playing basketball apply for rezoning they would be ment of people who wish to follow lives in tho rectory, said hP found house and who live thorn full-timn, in our yard everyday. We feel Like fined $1,000 a day for every day the Gospel by practicing nonvio­the Catholic: Worker house aftnr arh'llnd fi1r the zonn change. we're making it they have been out lence and the works of mercy, in he was released from federal 
"This is not a homeless shelter, safbr for kids in of code since their particular sheltering the homeless prison for illegal firearms posses­but our own home. We live there," the area founding. Cussen in a personal way," Cussen said. sion.
"There is no place in 
Phiel said. ber.ause they're said they went The Catholic Worker r.ommunity "Ber.ause I am a r.onvicted felon, 
South Bend where 
Mike Gritlin, a Catholic Worker playing ball, through a lot of members have dinner at the I couldn't find a job in South Bond. staffer who also lives in the home, not doing men can go during the paperwork IUld got house every night at 6:30 p.m., I was homeless for a few days, arh'lled the area i<> de facto not a drugs. They the application in Cussen said. Those who WIUlt to sleeping at the bus station, when
day to take showers, 
single-family arna. think we're August. stay the night eat dinner with the someone told me about the
do laundry, make
"In our immediate vidnity there bringing an The Heritage community. If people who have Catholic Worker house," Balber arn 50 empty houses," Gritfin said. area down phone calls, or just Foundation has been living at the house miss din­said. "Wtl are only three houses away when in fact grab a cup of coffee since stated it is ner without pre-arranged notice, "They took a liking to me when I from a multifamily· zone." the area is not opposed to the zone their beds are open for the night. got here because I fixed Mything
and get out of the
Opponent., spoke about the need good to start chMge. The community takes Myone who and everything," Balber said. to uphold the zoning ordinance. off. We're mak­cold." On Oct. 18 the needs a place to stay, though there After a few months he IIUlded a "It's purnly zoning," said Cindy ing it more sta­Area Plan are strict rules forbidding drugs, job with AJ Wright and i<> saving to Lewis, an opponent of the zone ble." Commission gave alcohol and acts of violence, get back on his feet. 
Brenna Cussen 
change. It's not about who they The original the request an Cussen said. "Here everybody is willing to
staff member 
are or what they do. A win-win founders of the unfavorable recom­Cussen began living in the com­lend an ear, to lend a hand. situation would be to help them house knew of Catholic Worker House mendation. Two munity after she graduated from They've become a family," Balber relocate." the code but days later, the city Notre Dame. said. 
Luncke agrend. did not realize Board of Zoning "This is real," she said. "This L<> Catholic Worker supporters said 
"I support the mission of the its importance because so many Appeals sent the request to the people trying to live out the Gospel they were surprised by the coun­Catholic Worker, but I also support abandoned buildings and busi­South Bend Common Council with in a real way. The responsibilities cil's vote. Two of tho counr.il mem­thn current zoning of the neigh­nesses were in the immediate no recommendation. of the community members are bers said that though they were borhood. The house ought to be in area, Cussen said. In October If the Catholic Worker's petition divided equally. The guests and initially going to vote against the a multifamily zone, not a single­2004 the managers of the house is not approved, they will have to staff members share household zone change, after visiting the family arna," he said. received their first notice that they make r.hanges to come into com­chores duty on a weekly basis." house and hearing the testimony 
Charlotte Pfiefer, president of were out of compliance with the pliance with the zoning code. The Catholic Workers are also they chMged their minds. the Common Council, was one of code. "The women's house would starting a day center downtown, Because of the tie vote, the the most out<;poken erities of the "We started the process to apply have to ask a couple women to which is scheduled to open in council will have to reconsider tho housn. for rezoning, but we decided to find somewhere else," Cussen December or January, Cussen matter at its next meeting on Nov. 
"IThn housn I has been a magnet take the advice of Jeff Gibney, who said. "Maybe one or two from the said. 28. Council member AI Kirsits, fi1r pnopltl to come into the neigh­is the head of the Heritage duplex would be asked to go. We "There is no place in South who was not present Monday borhood and go into people's Foundation and who lives in the don't want to put any one on the Bend where men r.an go during night, will probably make the backyards and demand that they neighborhood," Cussen said. "He street, but we can't afford to be the day to take showers, do laun­deciding vote. In the past he has be li1d," Pliefer said. "Now people told us he would help us try to lined $1,000 a day. We'd eventual­dry, make phone calls, or just grab stated that he does not support tho walk in and thny think they can do work out something with the ly move." a cup of coffee and get out of the zone ehMge. whatever they w<mt. My R5-year­neighbors and not to try lor rezon­The Catholic Worker house in cold," Cussen said. old motl1er is scared to death." ing because of the history of the South Bend is one of a number of Guests of the Catholic Worker Contact Sarah Wheaton at 
Brenna Cussen, a staff member neighborhood." similar communities operating house are required to be out of the swheaton@nd.edu 

Stats 
continued from page I 
Hesidenee Uf{l and !lousing were for students with repeat viola­tions. That number was 35.4 per­cent in 2003-04 and 31.1 percent in 2002-03. 
Recent trends 
Four violations -intoxication, parking violations, off-campus arrest and abusive drinking ­have been among the top live vio­lations fllported during the past thren ynars. 
Intoxication aceountnd for 21.2 p11rcm1t of the disciplinary inci­dents snnt to the Office of Hnsidnnre Liffl and !lousing dur­ing the 2004-05 academic year. Parking violations areountml for 
12.2 percnnt, oll"-rampus arrest fi1r 11.7 percent, computnr usage fi1r II pereent and abusive drink­ing fi1r 9.6 pen:tmt. 
Thn most rnr.ent trend has been an incrnasn in r.omputer usage violations -meaning download­ing material in violation of copy­right laws. l>ireetor of Hesidence I.ifil and I lousing Jell" Shoup said. 
"We'ro contacted by the people that hold th11 1:opyright and who are making a complaint about studnnts who are infringing on tlwm," Shoup said. "We contact tlw studnnt, tdl them imnwdiate­ly to eeasn and desist the media that they're viewing. Some of tlwm don't nvnn maliZil that the material they've downloaded is eopyrightml or protm:t11d in some way." 
Shoup said in this seenario, the studnnt would liknly bn called in for "morn of a conversation" and sent to the Ollice of lnfi1rrnation Teehnology to have his or her ma1:hine deannd. 
l'arintals incidents were the sixth most reported violation dur­ing each of t.he thrne years-5.9 pere1mt of easns during the 2004­05 and 2003-04 academie years, 
4.2 percent in 2002-03. 
Heported violations of the University's sexuality code, how­ever, are few and far between, ranging from one to three inci­dents per year. 
The two most common sanc­tions are a monetary fme, admin­istered in 35.4 percent of the inci­dents during the 2004-05 aca­demic year, and alr.ohol assess­ment, administered in 17.6 per­cent of the incidents during the 2004-05 year. 
And as for the most serious sanctions -the numbers are small. 
One student was permanently dismissed during the 2003-04 ar.ademir. year. No students were dismissed during the 2002-03 year or during the 2004-05 year. 
"1\velve students were suspend­ed during the 2004-05 academic year, compared to seven during the 2003-04 year and 10 during the 2002-03 year. 
"I think one of thosn r.ommon miseoneeptions is how many peo­ple get suspended," Shoup said. "Sincn I've been here we've had three or four have to leave earn­pus ... 20 is about the most since I've been here. Permanent dis­missals ... That's about nqual to one or two, every other year. Those tend to be sexual assault eases, drugs, maybe a very seri­ous thcf"t. or repeated kind of behavior. where maybe tiHly've already bmm suspended once and have the same kind of behavior. But those are pretty rare." 
The numbers of students filreed to move ofl" r.ampus varied some­what over the p<L'it three years ­14 during the 2004-05 aeademie year, six in 2003-04 and nine in 2002-03. 
The statistics show that male sophomores are the most fre­quent HesLife oiTenders. Last ynar, 67.4 percent of disciplinary inr.idents involved males. The gender breakdown ehanges little from year to year-69.9 pereent of ineidents involved males in 2003-04, eomparnd to 65.6 per­r.ent in 2002-03. 
During the past three years, sophomores have paid the most visits to the Office of Residence Life and Housing, accounting for 
31.9 percent of reported diseipli­nary incidents during the 2004­05 academic year, 24.7 percent during 2003-04 and 28.1 percent during 2002-03. 
Freshmen are consistently the dass with the second-largest pro­portion of reported disciplinary incidents-25.4 percent in 2004­05, 23 percent in 2003-04 and 
27.9 percent in 2002-03. 
Codes of conduct 
duLac may be unique to Notre Dame, but the ideas within are not. 
The disciplinary policies of two of Notre Dame's peer institutions, Georgetown and Boston College, are for the most part strikingly similar to those outlined in duLac. 
Georgetown's Code of Conduct emphasizes community, a duLae tonot. 
"When order is absent or dis­rupted, not only are individuals harmed, but the r.ommunity suf­fers too," Georgetown's Code of Conduct reads. 
It also contains lanh'llage about harm to the community that is only slightly less vague than duLae's community clauses. promising sanctions for "actions or attempted actions that obstruct. interfere or could result in harm to others and/or the uni­versity community regardless of intent." 
Like Notre Dame administra­tors, tho Code stresses the impor­tance of education rather than discipline. 
"The student disr.ipline system is designed to be an educational system and does not function as a· court of law," it states. 
Georgetown's Code breaks its violations down into three classi­lir.ations -Category A, B and C -based on seriousness. 
Category A violations indude underage possession or eonsump­tion of alcohol, defar.ement, disor­derly conduct, possession of drug paraphernalia and "being in the presence of the use of a counter­feit or controlled substance." 
These violations "typically inelude a combination of sanc­tions ranging from a tine and/or work sanction hours coupled with educational classes/projects, referral to appropriate communi­ty resource, and/or party restric­tion up to and induding housing relocation or housing probation," the Code reads. · 
Category B violations range from misrepresentation of age in order to obtain alcohol, to provi­sion of alcohol to underage per­sons, to sexual misconduct, to use of drug paraphernalia and use or possession of a eoun terfeit or controlled substance. 
The sanction for a Category B violation involves, at minimum, housing relocation. It could mean a diseiplinary suspension lasting up to two years. 
Finally, the most serious viola­tions -Category C -mean "a student would likely receive, min­imally, disciplinary suspension or could be dismissed from the University," the Code reads. 
These violations include arson, physieal assault, sexual assault and manufacturing or possessing a counterfeit or controlled sub­stance with intent to distribute. 
The "Behavioral Standards and Polieies" section of Boston College's Student Guide is organ­ized alphabetir.ally by violation. 
Like Notre Dame, it refers explicitly to sexual union outside marriage, an action that "that may be subject to sanr.tion as conduct unbecoming a Boston College student." 
And like Notre Dame. it<; sanc­tions range from fines to dis­missal from tlw university, whieh requires "that the student r.om­pletely sever any and all connec­tion with Boston College." 
lloston College does outline minimum sanctions for eertain violations. For example, possess­ing a "central aleohol source" ­like kegs or punch bowls -or excessive amounts of aleohol means housing probation for those over 21 years of age, one semester housing suspension for those under 21. 
One area where Notre Dame does seem to differ is in drug poli­cies. 
At Boston College, possession of small quantities of Class D drugs like marijuana means housing probation and visits to the Alcohol and Drug Edur.ation Program. At Georgetown, a stu­dent in possession might be sus­ponded -but aL'io might just bn put on housing probation or housing suspension. 
At Notre Dame, however, that same possession moans a student "shall result in disciplinary sus­pension or dismissal." 
So is Notre Dame strictnr than othnr schools'? Or more lnninnt'? 
While the polieillS may snem thn same, they're just words. It's hard to judgn how the schools matr.h up, ev1m when eomparing numbnrs. 
"The challenge is that becausn nach of our sehools enforces thn polir.ies somewhat differently or has a different policy in general, numbers aro somnwhat mnaning­less," said Stephanie Quade, Associate Dean of Studnnt Dnvelopment at Marqunttn University. "Our p1H>pln would lm quick to tell you our aleohol poli­
r.y start<> at a low hwel. We bngin looking in thn JlrllSPneO of alcohol and document everything from the ground up." 
Marquette's Code of Condur.t wa<> not available fi1r rPview. 
The numbers may not show everything about nnforr.mnnnt, but many Notre Damn studnnts attest to a rer.nnt crackdown -a trend thny say is pushing them ofl" eampus. The sixth part of this series will examine the futurn or Notre Dame with regards to its rules and rngulations. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at 
mhannal @nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, November 17, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Human rights and divine providence 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat·Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SroRTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDimR: Megan O'Neil PHom EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRA!'HICS EDIIDR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-454I obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 63.1-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 63!-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.J@nd.edu 
ScENE DEsK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudenrs of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the adrninisttacion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on conrenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing EditOrs and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Q=tions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Hrininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th~ Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is pubiUhed Monday through Friday except during exam and vacaEion periods. Asubscription (O The Obscrn:r is $100 for one: academic year; $5') for one semesrer 
The Observtr is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send add.res~ ~om:criotu to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556..0779 TheOl»erver 
Periodical posugt Jnid Jt Noltt Dame W. Box779 
and additional mailing offices 024 Soorb Dining Hall 
Noue Dame.IN 4655&0n9 
The Observer is .1 member ofthe Assodattd Press. All ttproductlon rlghu are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Megan O'Neil Mike Gilloon Joe Piarulli · Jack Thornton 
Janice Flynn Tim Kaiser Viewpoint Scene Joey King Liz Byrum 
Graphics Graham Ebetsch 

The Senate will hit Supreme Court nominee Samuel Alito with a lot of ques­tions about "rights,'' including the right to privacy, to abortion, etc. Before the hearing begins, it might be a good idea to get our own act together on "rights." 
The index of the Compendium of the Social Doctrine of the Catholic Church lists 197 separate "rights," including the "right to freedom in religious matters," the "right to a just wage" and many more. Where did we get all those rights? Who can take them away? According to historian, Arthur Schlesinger, Jr., "Human rights is not a religious idea. It is a secular idea, the product of the last four centuries of Western history." Or did the Declaration of Independence get it right when it said that "all men are created equal," and "are endowed by their Creator with certain Unalienable Rights"? 
Does the Constitution give you the freedom of speech? Or does it merely guarantee that freedom which you got somewhere else? Professor Iredell Jenkins, in the American Journal of Jurisprudence three decades ago, described the "two broad views which have disputed the field for centuries." One view holds that "rights have a real metaphysical and moral status .... Rights derive directly from God or Nature ... and they belong to man as part of his intrinsic nature ... Law mere­ly recognizes these rights and enforces respect for them ... The other view holds that rights ... owe their being and their nature exclusively to law ... whose crea­tures they are.... [T]he legislative or judicial act ... brings the rights into being and constitutes its content." Under this second view, the state gives rights and can take them away. 

Whether the person has any absolute rights depends on his origin, nature and destiny. "I see no reason for attributing to man," wrote Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, a patron saint of American jurisprudence, "a significance different in kind from that which belongs to a baboon or a grain of sand." What claim to immunity could such an insignificant entity have against the power of the majority or of the state to subject him to slavery or death at the discretion of oth­ers? "[T]he sacredness of human life," Holmes said, "is a purely municipal ideal of no validity outside the jurisdic­tion. I believe that force, mitigated so far as may be by good manners, is the ultima ratio." He defined truth as "the majority vote of the nation that could lick all others." 
If Holmes is right, if there is no objec­tive truth and no God, the Creator, how can we offer any reason why the human person has more intrinsic rights than "a baboon or a grain of sand"? As Pope John Paul II said, "the eclipse of the sense of God and of man ... leads to a practical materialism, which breeds individualism, utilitarianism and hedo­nism ... The first to be harmed are women, children, the sick or suffering and the elderly. The criterion of person­al dignity ... is replaced by the criterion of efficiency ... [O]thers are considered not for what they 'are,' but for what they 'have, do and produce.' This is the supremacy of the strong over the weak." After the experience of the Godless regimes of the 20th century and today, can we doubt the truth of John Paul's assessment? 
"We are not," said Pope Benedict XVI at the start of his pontificate, "some casual and meaningless product of evo­lution. Each of us is the result of a thought of God. Each of us is willed, each of us is loved, each of us is neces­sary." That is why, as John Paul put it in Veritatis Splendor, "civil authorities and ... individuals never have authority to violate the fundamental and inalienable rights of the human person ... [0 )nly a morality which acknowledges certain norms as valid always and for everyone, with no exception, can guarantee the ethical foundation of social coexis­tence." 
The only coherent basis for asserting those exceptionless moral norms and the transcendent rights of the human person is his creation in the image and likeness of God with an immortal des­tiny. As you read these lines, some child is being born in a hospital somewhere in Indiana. That child's life began some nine months before his birth. There will come a time when there will be no Indiana, no Washington, no Ireland, no Paris, no Rome. Maybe not even a Notre Dame Stadium. It will all be gone. But that child will still be alive. The human person, because of that immortal des­tiny, has rights that the state, and every­one else, is absolutely bound to respect because those rights come from God. 
The bottom line? Let's stop being apologetic about bringing God into "rights talk." Without God, our very existence makes no sense and we have no absolute, inalienable rights. With God, it all makes sense. It might even make sense to the United States Senate. 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is on the Law School Faculty. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at plawecki@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Commending Navy-ND reaction 
Peter Schroeder's column about the Notre Dame vs. Navy game was both eloquent and moving as well as "dead on" in my humble opinion. It was an incredibly well-written piece, and it is patently obvious that he is an English literature major! (Go Notre Dame professors!) Thank you so much. Schroeder, for writing it, and for all the kind words about the Navy-especially that "Navy has big­ger fish to fry. We may claim that we must protect this house, but Navy must protect something way bigger." They surely do. My brother and father are Notre Dame graduates, and I knew the Notre Dame fight song before I could walk. That same brother is also a F-18 fighter pilot for the Navy and has done several fly­overs for football games at Notre Dame-nothing has given him greater joy. I myself am an Army spouse -my husband is an Army JAG attending the Command and General Staff College at Ft. Leavenworth, Kan. He enlisted in the Army as a paratrooper at Ft. Bragg, N.C. at age 18 and later put himself through college on the GI Bill, went to law school and then "re-uped" as an officer. I am so very proud of both of them, not only for their military serv­ice but for the honorable, kind, brilliant men that they are. I am honored to be their sister and wife (respectively). 
It is so nice to realize that others outside of our military family understand and appreciate the sacrifice that so many young men and women-and those of us not so young anymore-are mak­ing on behalf of our country and for the greater good. I am not certain that all Americans see it that way, and it saddens me. The 
OBSERVER POLL 
Are you planning to go to the last pep rally? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

men and women of the armed forces ask nothing from the general public-and yet they deserve far more. Yes, they collect a pay­check, but believe me, the paycheck is not what it is all about­more could be had elsewhere and, unquestionably, there are not too many of us willing to lay our lives on the line for folks that we do not know and will never meet, no matter how much someone wants to pay us. Thus, columns such as yours give a big shot in the arm to those in the military and the military spouses that sup­port our loved ones in uniform to allow them to serve and protect our country and its citizens. Your column hopefully will compel your readers to take a moment to realize what really matters in life and to reflect upon the daily and often unrecorded acts of self­lessness that our men and women in uniform conduct on behalf of us all. For in the end, as Schroeder so wisely reminds us, football is merely a game (I have to remind my husband, a rabid Arizona State alum, of this all the time). It is not life. So thank you. The future is bright with young men like Schroeder being ready and willing to let folks know that, even for Notre Dame football, win­ning cannot be the only goal -it truly is far more important how we play the game and that we are fortunate -and free enough ­
to play at all. 

Erin Swansiger Fort Leavenworth, Kan. Nov.16 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"That which is static and repetitive is boring. That which is dynamic and random is confusing . In between lies art. " 
John Locke English philosopher 


SUbmit aLetter 
.' t;h.a E'·d,·-~~-.t"·r······ 'lt·
1

to •. t' .LL...U" qi
... ·._ ... •· 1 .. 
;i www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Thursday, November 17, 2005 page 11 
Fighting 'compassion fatigue' 
Have you heard much about the continu­ing disaster rnlief from Katrina and Rita lately? I low about the earthquake in Pakistan or the tsunami in Thailand and Indonesia? That our awareness of the day­to-day struggles of the victims of thesn disas­Kate Barrett tors wanes long before 
FaithPoint

tlwir nnnd for assis­tance ends is not news. In faet. "compassion fatigue" becomes fod­der for news stories following almost every situation of disastrous loss. 
llownver, we have an obligation to keep thesn brothers and sisters of ours in our hnarlo;, long after the first heartfelt weeks of eontributions and prayers. 
A rnennt family emergeney brought horne to me onee again that large-seale disasters are simply tragedies that happen to one family at a time, multiplied by hun­dn~ds. or thousands. or hundreds of thou­sands of people. Just last week, my cousin, her partner and their dog escaped from their apartment during a fire that had probably ernpt through the interior walls of the largo old house they shared with six other apartment-;. They literally lost every­thing but the dothes they had on-they evnn had to have new car keys made. The old house burned to the ground and was subsequently bulldozed. Imagine losing every beloved photograph, every book you own, your furniture. your socks, shoes and every artide of clothing ... this story needs only to be multiplied by several tens of thousands, with water substituted for fire and Louisiana for Massachusetts, to encompass the stories of the people of the Gulf Coast last August and September. 
As we in our family pray and share updates and information, as we send gift cards and money and try to figure out what more we can do to help, I have thought over and over again that so many, many families continue to share this expe­rience on a larger scale with their own rel­atives who have lost everything due to a hurricane, an earthquake or a tsunami. And of course, that's not even counting the perhaps hundreds of thousands of people in the poorest parts of New Orleans, in the mountains of Pakistan, in Ban de Aceh, Indonesia. whose housing before these dis­asters was tenuous at best and who now face a quality of life we cannot imagine and would not tolerate for one of our own family members. 
Perhaps we don't even have "compas­sion fatigue," but simply a sense that this is 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Examining discipline 
"The morn things change, the more cantly improved since the mid-70's­thny stay the same." Parietal hours this generation is much more aro an impnrfnct substitute for behav­thoughtful about drinking behavior ior-based regulations, particularly in and intimate personal relationships. common areas of dorms-students If the Of1ice of Hesidential Lifo is and HAs know it. It's no wonder present to support and educate stu­Pnforeernm1t is ineonsistent. dents when small errors in judgment Gnntlnrnan should be gentleman. are made, graduates will make fewer, l.adins should bn ladies. Temptation far more painful mistakes after Notre abounds, but pnrsonal rnsponsibility Dame's eommunity support is no and mature dneision-making can and longer a part of their everyday lives. should bn taught without irrelevant. lneonsistent and overly zealous though convenient, trip wires. like enforcement of surrogate regulations parintal hours. will reduce tho likelihood that tho 
Jo:vNything that needs to be said University's counseling help will be about responsible drinking was sought due to fear of the potential, mvealml at our "50+ 12 Conferenee," unknowable consequenees. That's not eo-sponsornd by the National how effective parents do it. lias the Institute on i\leoholism and Aleohol concept of "in loeo parentis" lost i\busn in 1975 and hostnd by Notre some traction at du Lac? Dame's student government. Drinking bnhind elosnd doors is the least likely Ed Byrne way to promote responsible behavior. alumnus 
I still love Notre Dame. but this student body president, 1976 snmns to bn getting worse, not better, Class of 1976 and I'll bet student behavior is signifi-Nov. 16 

Keeping perspective 
In response to Tuesday's article, "Group I would think that safety is morn impor­voices concern over e-mail warning [Saint tant than political eorreetness, and knowl­Mary's Board of Governance coverage, Nov. edge is more important than i!,'110rancn. 15]." it seems that women's issues commis­There are some girls out thnre who haven't sioner Katie Kelly is implying that campus benn to a college party before, and they security shouldn't send advice to the public may not know what is dangerous, sueh as about such things as "be careful what you accepting drinks from strangers. Advice drink and how you act at a party," and like "bn a warn of how mueh you've had to "never leave your drink unattended." She drink" should be made available to every­is apparently against these safety warnings one. These e-mails should be thought of as because they could possibly imply that rape a tool for fighting rapists rather than a is partly the victim's fault. If her view was slander on the victims. There am rapists in correet, then perhaps security shouldn't the community, but rape can be stoppnd, send out e-mails about how to prevent bur­and community knowledge can help. Ifjust glaries because they might imply it is the one girl can be helped by sound, safe residents' fault. or"pools shouldn't post advice, shouldn't these e-mails go out'? warnings sueh as "swim with a buddy" It seems that Kelly and some others of because it might offend those who drown. the Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's community 
Further, Kelly says that the e-mails are more worried about thn appearance of should only have information about where things than thn reality of security's mission rape victims should go, i.e. the Women's -to keep us all safe. Center. Kelly seems to be implying that no one can prevent rape, so security should Sean Hoban just be there to tell you where to go when it !(taduate Student does happen. Maybe she is even against Nov. IS having Emergency Call Boxes on campus? 

Wave hurts experience 
Like most students at the University of Notre Dame, I spent last Saturday afternoon cheering the Fighting Irish on to their eommanding victory over Navy. llowever, early in the fourth quarter I was shoekt~d. dismayed and physieally sickened as students in my section started performing "Tho Wave." This sad exeuse for a eheer is detri­mental to the Notrn Dame football experienee for many rnasons. 
It is no eoineidence that the last three times fans in Notrn Dame Stadium have engaged in wavn-like cheers. the Irish oll'onse has failed to eon vert on third down. Ao; many of us learned from a very informative Jumbotron at Purdue, the time to bn loud and obnoxious is when the tnam you like is on defense. Brady Quinn has the ovnrwholming responsibility of not only maintain­ing two of tho most beautiful and muscular arms in the world. but also of running a precision ollimse under the serutiny of a national audience; thn last thing he needs is 80,000 fans taunting his peripheral vision by leaping to their feet in a semi-choreographed manner, cheering loudly for a mildly amusing visual display. A'> gracious fans, the least we can do is avoid distracting our faith­ful team as they march onward to victory. 
Also, the initiation and performance of "The Wave" takes a lot of strategic planning, commu­nication and teamwork. lfthere's anything I've learned from two years of business classes, it's that anything that begins with careful planning and teamwork is never fun or worthwhile. While advocates of 'The Wave" are busy coaxing thou­sands of people to stand up on command, they're missing an essential part of any football Saturday: the football. Many people would pay hundreds, even thousands of dollars to sit in the student section for one exciting game between two rival eollege liJOtball programs. I am disap­pointed in my fellow students that do not find the battle on the gridiron exciting enough to divert attention from a cheap spectaele like "The Wave." 
Dan Keough 
junior 
O'Neill 
Nov.16 
all too much to take in, that there's no pos­sible way we could do anything to help need of this magnitude. "This is all so overwhelming," my cousin wrote to my mother in an email from a borrowed com­puter. "Overwhelming" can easily lead us to a condition we might call "compassion paralysis" where we end up doing nothing simply out of the confusion of not knowing where to start. 
I guess we just start like our family has the luxury of starting: one family at a time. If we can recognize that somewhere out there lives a family, perhaps just like our own, that desperately needs our prayers, some clothes, some supplies to rebuild or clean up or move, some warm blankets or coats or boots, and ifwe could send those to a reputable relief organization, then perhaps together we could continue attempting to meet needs that continue to exist. Looking ahead, we could pay atten­tion to, and pray for, the discussions that have begun to take place which will hope­fully create changes on a larger scale. We cannot stop hurricanes, earthquakes, tidal waves or sometimes even fires from wreaking their havoc, but we can be better prepared for them -we can work for bet­ter quality affordable housing; we can hon­estly examine whether we should develop and build extensively in unstable coastal 
areas. 
My family's local parish here in South Bend has begun a program to send hun­dreds of large "clean-up buckets" to the southern United States to help with the digging, scrubbing, scouring and disposing that remains ongoing. It helps my husband and I and our children to know that our buckets will get to a family who will actu­ally be able to use the supplies inside to make their home and their possessions liv­able, sanitary and wearable. 
As Thanksgiving and Christmas approach, we stand on the edge of about six weeks of abundanee and plenty. We can also use these weeks to be about grati­tude and· generosity. Maybe the ongoing needs of our displaced brothers and sisters around the world will displace some of our own wants during these weeks to come. 
Kate Barrett is the Director ofResources & Special Projects for Campus Ministry. She can be contacted at Barrett.28@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Make the 'C' 
I want to respond to the letter yesterday about doing Ws for Weis [It should be a 'W', Nov. 16]. First. before I get to that I would like to rebuke the wave phenomenon. John Wrenn daimed that doing the wave shows "that everyone in the stadium cares about what is going on, is paying attention," and the wave doesn't show that at all. When people are doing the wave all they are paying attention to is the fans and not what is going on on the field. When Quinn threw the interception during the wavn, half the people around me were still cheering at the wave going on across the field. But I digress. Back to the point. People debatnd for way too long about the green shirt being a symbol of Willingham's era and no, that's not why seniors didn't buy them. The old green shirts just aren't as bad as the new ugly yellow shirt (bottling up the spirit to light up 
the universe has what to do with football?). And what is evnn more of a symbol of thn Ty era than the grmm shirlo; are tJ1e Ws (took mn a while to get to my point, I apolo­gize). The chant is spndlkally done to honor the coaeh ­whereas the shirt is for the team -so by continuing to do the Ws we are continuing a symbol meant for Ty. Doing a C would honor Weis and be a sign of the new era. I'll even let you say Weis if it makes you mom comliJrtable. Tim Cs are pretty easy to do, too. If you are having a problem come to see­tion 29 and I'll show you how. 
Nick Plantan senior Off-campus Nov. 16 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Thursday, November 17, 2005 
CONCERT REVIEW 

The Roots keep audience in rapture in Chicago 
courtesy theroots.com The Roots formed in 1987 when Black Thought, middle left, and drummer ?estlove, left, met at the Philadelphia High School for Creative Performing Arts. 
CD REVIEW 
Ben Lee contemplates life and love on new album 
Photo courtesy of girlieaction.com Aussie Ben Lee was one of the youngest musicians ever to enter the Australian music scene. He began his career in the band Noise Addict when he was 14. 
By ANALISE LIPARI Scene Critic 
Unfortunately for Ben Lee, this Australian musician has been most well known in America for being the ex­boyfriend of actress Claire Danes. But with his newest release, "Awake is the New Sleep," Lee has a better, and certainly catchier, way to make a name for himself in the U.S. 
Lee's first major studio release in two years, "Awake is the New Sleep" is a 14­song journey into light melodies and earnest lyrics. It has a sweet and genuine feeling about it, whether it is from Lee's slight Aussie twinge or his lovable mug on the album's back cover. Ultimately, while it may not reveal any earth-shattering truths about human nature or the nature of love, "Awake" is an appealing detour from some 
Sweet without

Awake is the 
being overly sac­charine, "Catch 
My Disease" is pure contagious fun. 

New Sleep 
~AK 

Ben Lee 
Other notable tracks include the 


!S THE 1\JE\;"Ij


New West Records 
third song, "Begin," "Ache for You" and "Into the 


LEEf~ 
Dark," Lee's observation on romance. Here,

Recommended tracks: 'Whatever It Is,"Catch My 
the lyrics do reach

Disease,''Begin,' 'Ache for You and 'Into the Dark' 
a point of poten­tial cheesiness, 
of the harsher music of today. 
The album opens with "Whatever It Is," a quiet little reflection on questioning and inhibition. The track flows with Lee's soft voice nearly whispering into the micro­phone, speaking gentle words to the song's subject. 
"And you're dancing, and you're looking kinda crazy I and your arms are making little circles I there are reasons, there are reasons, you can find out," Lee tenderly muses in "Whatever It Is." 
A standout track is the first major single off of the album, "Catch My Disease," which describes both Lee's quest for the . love of a certain girl, as well as his ran­dom thoughts on life in general. The mood and melody of the track are infectious, pun most likely intended with a smile by Lee. Here he uses a collection of instru­ments and a motley-crew-of-a-chorus to accentuate the cuteness factor this unabashedly adorable song. 
Hub, another percussionist, bass, elec­By RYAN RAFFERTY 

tric guitar and keyboards. "I Don:t Scene Writer 
Care" set the tone for the intense, ener­getic set that was to follow, with The Roots are not your typical, run-of absolutely no break in between songs -the-mill hip-hop group. In fact, some for two hours. The Roots flowed seam­may say the Roots are not even a hip­lessly from one song to the next, not hop group at all. leaving any room for the audience, or 
Blurring the lines between rock, funk, themselves, to rest. rap, jazz and soul, The Roots certainly The musicianship of The Roots cannot do have the central elements of a hip­be emphasized enough. While other tra­hop group, but are completely void of a ditional hip-hop groups may rely on DJ and pre-programmed beats". Every sampled loops and drum machines, the second of their music in the studio is live band that relentlessly tore through performed by a live band made up of several songs from "The Tipping Point," some of the most brilliant musicians "Things Fall Apart" and the classic today. The Roots brought that brilliantly "Phrenology" proved that they are not unique band through Chicago's House of only worthy to be compared to hip-hop Blues Monday night, fresh off a short icons like A Tribe Called Quest, but they tour opening up select dates for Wilco. are also brilliant musicians that can 
Entering the House of Blues on play any type of music. The Roots pulled Monday night, concertgoers were greet­no punches in that respect, segueing ed with the subtle beats of fellow hip­from their own "Love of My Life" into hop artists A Tribe Called Quest and Ray Charles' classic "What'd I Say." Mos Def resonating on the venue's To further accentuate these abilities, sound system. Not relying on any open­and perhaps to give the other members ing act to warm up the audience, The some rest from the continuous set, each 
Roots appeared  on  a  band  member  was  
completely dark stage to the cheers of an  The Roots Live in  given several minutes to showcase their indi­ 
already eneJ:getic and bouncing audience to tear through a relent­less two hour set. Drummer ?uestlove ripped into the drum  Chicago Artists: The Roots Date: Monday, Nov. 14 Venue: Chicago House of Blues  vidual talents. Bassist Hub was first up, flowing into a free form rock-and jazz­based jam from "What'd I Say" for sev­ 
beat of the opener, "I  eral minutes. Drummer  
Don't  Care,"  from  ?uestlove and his fel­ 

2004's "The Tipping Point," sending low percussionist were given a chance waves of sound rippling through the later in the show to showcase their audience's chests. The lights came up ridiculously tight rhythms and jams, with MC Black Thought's tight rhymes inviting the guitar player out to jam at revealing the full six-piece band includ­the end in an intense start-stop funk ing ?uestlove, Black Thought, bassist jam. After several more Roots classics including "The Seed 2.0," "Don't Say Nuthin' ," "Stay Cool" and "Panic!" the electric guitarist was give a chance to shine with a long, powerful solo toying with the basic riff of the Beatles' "She's So Heavy." Jumping off stage and play­ing while walking around the sweating, screaming crowd amped the audience up for the incredible finale of the show. 
Leaving keyboard player Kamal to showcase his abilities last, The Hoots segued seamlessly from the electric echoes of the Beatles into a monster jam of countless pop songs led by the incom­parable Kamal. Riffing on their own funked-out versions of Ray Charles' "I Got a Woman," Beyonce's "Crazy In Love," Wu-Tang Clan's "Protect Ya Neck," Ram Jam's "Black Betty," Black Sabbath's "Iron Man" and the Sugarhill Gang's "Happer's Delight," the band stretched its music chops to the limits, closing the insanely dynamic two-hour set with no encore. ?uestlove instead stayed on stage signing drumsticks and throwing them into the audience while a recording of The Roots "Din Da Da" thumped from the PA system, keeping the audience entranced until the lights finally came on. 
Truly one of the most unique, original and energetic live acts touring right now, The Roots did not miss a single step Monday night, playing a seamless set featuring their own hip-hop master­pieces as well as classic funk, rock, rap and soul songs that kept the audience in rapture. 
Contact Ryan Rafferty at rraffert@nd.edu 


but Lee toes the threshold with carefree ease. 
"You're not a land mine I You're not a gold mine I No you're not mine at all," Lee sings in "Into the Dark." 
For Lee, the journey to making this record comes in the wake of personal change on several levels. His split with Danes and his continual spiritual growth were both catalysts in working towards a new phases in his music. 
"This whole record stems from a change that is something I don't have the vocabu­lary to be articulate about," Lee says in a recent MTV.com article, "like that child­hood dream when you are in your house and you find a new room you didn't know about. That's what my life was like when I was making this record, almost like I remembered what I came for." 
The major issue with "Awake is the New Sleep" lies in its lighthearted nature. There's an unapologetic lack of weighti­ness about this disc, and the general tone of the album is one of blissfully inconse­quential pop. 
Is this a criticism or a compliment? Lee, it seems from the overall tone of the album, would find no fault with either. Instead, he seeks to and succeeds in mak­ing a series of lightly contemplative obser­vations on life and love, and in doing so, he is uncomplicated without being shallow. Ultimately at the end of "Awake Is the New Sleep," nothing major has been observed, learned or changed, and that's completely line by Lee. Certainly free from social com­mentary or serious reflection, the album and its listeners can and do relish in its willful lack of pretension. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 

-~~~~~~~~~-------------, 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Thursday, November 17, 2005 

Seniors look to lead Irish to unseen heights 
It's not often a team is laden with five gifted, unselfish sen­iors. It's not often a team wins 15 consecutive matches or boasts a 22-2 record. 
Most sea-

Tom Dorwart
sons, teams would be happy just to 
Sports Writer 
reach 18 wins on the season. Most seasons, teams would be happy winning their conference and making the NCAAs. 
For the No. 8 Irish volleyball team, this season is different. 
Coach Debbie Brown describes her quintet of four­year vets as -simply put­hard workers and team players. 
"I think they all bring differ­ent strengths, and because of that, it helps keep the team really balanced," she said. "They're all leaders in their own way. It's a group that has a strong work-ethic." 
For the high-flying Irish, who expect to win every time they step on the court, this season is about winning the Big East for the 1Oth time in 11 years. But that is just one major step on their ladder of lofty goals. But, the ultimate goal is so lofty, it's not talked about. It's in the backs of their minds. It can't be talked about, perhaps because it would break their stellar focus. 
That ultimate goal, though, is obvious. It's as transparent as the holes in the nets on which they play. How so? 
Each time they've lost ­twice -the Irish say they're disappointed, similar to what any team would say. 
They say they need to respect every opponent they play ­typical. Yet, when talking to them, an observer could get the feeling they're more than disap­pointed. 
Each time they win, except for maybe a few of the upset victo­ries over top-ranked foes, the Irish and their coach say they aren't near satisfied with their performance. Every time they win, despite their win, the observer could get the feeling they're anxious. 
These Irish are hungry. After a sweep of a feisty Valparaiso team in the middle of the sea­son, the Irish walked off the court displeased, and there was a sense they wanted to keep playing. 
They wanted to suit up right then and there and take on their next opponent-beat up their next victim -because they hadn't played well for a stretch in the third game or because they should have won a few more points early on in a slow first game. 
"We're not really pleased with how we played," Brown said after that match. "We were just inconsistent. So, we had some bad spurts in both games one and three." 
This season is about more than making the NCAA tourna­ment and hosting a regional, something the Irish have done quite regularly in the past. It's about getting the monkey off their back -about getting to that elusive final eight of the Big Dance. 
The past 13 seasons, Notre Dame has made the NCAA tour­nament. Four of those seasons, it made it to the round of 16. Only one of those seasons, it made it to the final eight. And that was all the way back in 1997. 
With such a solid core group -including pre-season Big East player of the year Lauren Brewster, pre-season All-Big East pick Lauren Kelbley, Big East No. 4 in blocks Carolyn Cooper, Big East No. 4 in digs and undoubtedly the leader Meg Henican and, finally, the epitome of the phrase "team player" Kelly Burrell -the Irish realize they can create some­thing special this season. 
Throughout the season, they've told the media of their great team chemistry and confi­dence in each other. 
When asked about what lega­cy these five seniors can leave, Brown paused. She was most likely caught off-guard by the premature question. 
"We haven't really talked about what this group of sen­iors is going to leave, because I think we're still in the process of accomplishing that," she said. 
"We've talked as a team about where we are and the things that we still want to accom­plish." 

DUSTIN MENNELLNThe Observer The Irish come together for a post-victory celebration on Sept. 4 after defeating Arizona State 3-0 In the Shamrock Invitational. 


Big East Tournament 
No. 1 Notre DaJIII24-2) 
~-·.··...,.  
The Irish al'~ goingror th~ir 9th Big East Tournament title in.l1 yearii:'The last time NotriDa.tne raeed ftl~va, the Irish let): the Jofeia Center-With a 3-0  
victor~  
FRIDAY  FRIDAY  
12:30  6  
P.M.  P.M.  




What exactly do the Irish want to accomplish, then? 
None will say specifically. An observer, though, could easily get the idea that anything short of the Final Four would be a disappointment. Maybe, just maybe -because of their sin­cere disappointment after every loss and even after some wins -anything less than a national championship would be a disap­pointment. 
The last time the Irish lost, they went on a 15-match tear. Counting the last two regular season matches, the Big East tournament and the entire NCAA tournament, there aren't even 15 possible matches left. 
Notre Dame lost just last Sunday. Teams like No. 1 Nebraska or No.2 Washington don't know what it's like to lose. The Irish do. And they don't like it. In fact, they can't stand it so much that they never want it to happen again. 
So, what describes this group of seniors, one more time, coach? 
"It's a group that's competi­tive and committed to making this year the best in the history of Notre Dame volleyball," Brown said. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 



No.3 Syracuse (24-9) 
The Orange have made it to the Big East Tournament final three times but have never won. Syracuse comes into the game winning 12 out of its last 14 matches. 

No. 5 St.t!Ohi]Js (23-8)
.···• ..................-., 
The Red StQhq-·tm:p'i'wea on a 1-9 onference record'li:J. 2004-'to a 9-5 mark this season. Thi~,wjll be the''Red Storm's first toumartreni-apJie~alance in nine 
!;:'.)ear~---/ ·. ' .. .~.....~.-""/,( ... 
FRIDAY 
3:30 


A.M. P.M. 
No. 6 Pittsbtl (16-11)


,.. ,, 

The Panthers/ -:4 all-time record agains ' , ..including a current fi ~ . . , .enk. Megan 
McGrane(1! ti~ ,, Easf~digs per 
'}/ •'''"'
Jl' e h5:6't<~ 

.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, November 17, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
That's the way it is 
Irish ready to take Big East Championship and make a push into the NCAAs 
Hy TOM DORWART 
Spons Writer 
C1~1ine Diem's "That's the Way It is" blasts ovnr the spnakers in the Notre Damn loeker room. 
The Irish sit at their respee­tive loekers, thinking about their mateh, running through s1:onarios -humping, setting, spiking. 
I lion sings. 
"When you want it the most there's no easy way outJ When you'ro ready to go and your hoart's 
When asked if she and her teammates are friends away from volleyball, she replied immediately. 
"Definitely." 
"We get along very well," she said. "We're really good friends. We eall each other, and we decide what to go do. We go out to dinner." 
When they go on road trips, they don't do anything special, or so they say. Thn fact is, just by boing together-by meshing -they're doing something spe­
cial. 
"No real tradi­

loft in doubt." "As a team, right tions," Brewster 
Tho Irish join in. said. "We just all
before the coaches 
Some sing. Most fit together. We yoll -at the top come into the talk and laugh of their lungs. locker room, we and listen to 
"When you music."
listen to Celine
question mn for a This season the 
simple answer/ I Dion. And we sing Irish have been don't know what really loud. " having lots of fun, to say, no/ But it's and, thus, have plain to sen, if you lots to sing about.
Carolyn Cooper 
stick tognthnr/ They are 24-2 You're gonna lind Irish middle blocker overall and just 
a way, y1~ah ./ So don't surronder 'cause you can win/In this thing called love." 
Tho thing thn Irish love is vol­lnyhall. Tho thing is, they also love singing. 
It's what they do to relax hnfore every mateh -home or away. 
Boforn thnir coaches entnr the locker room to discuss plays, their opponnnt and othnr pre­match formalitins, the Irish jam. 
"As a tmun, right before thn eoar.hes come into the lor.ker room, we listen to Celine Diem," senior middle blocker Carolyn Coopt~r said. "And we sing rnal­ly loud. 
"Every mateh. It helps us rolax. Our tnam plays really, n~ally good whon we're having fun. Thatlthe singing! brings us tognthnr, and we all have fun, and w11 all go out and play." 
Fdlow snnior and pre-season Big East playnr of the year Lauren Brnwster wasn't as revnaling. 
"We have a lot of time in the loeker room before the match whnn we hang out," she said. "Wn'll talk about the team that we're playing, and we'll listen to music. 
Brnwster laughed. 
"That's about all I ean say I think." 
dinched the top 

seed in the Big East tournament by winning their final two regular season matches to finish 13-1in the eonferenee. The No. H Irish won tho regular season for the tenth time in the past 11 years. 
All this ber.ause of their outstand-Notre Dame beat the Cardinals in four games two weeks ago but wants to prove it is definite­ly not a co-champ. 

"Our team loves playing good teams, and we're really exdted to go into the tournament," Cooper said. 
"ITo] show that we don't need a share of the Big East champi­onship. We want to win the Big East championship. We're real­ly excited about possibly play­ing Louisville again." 
It's been eight years since the Irish made it past the first three rounds of the NCAA tourna­ment. And this, Cooper says, is the year that ehanges. 

"We're really excited about going to the INCAA] tournament -, and proving that we're not just a first and second round team," she said. "That we're a Sweet 16 team. We want to go really far in the tournament. We need to go farther than the second round." 
Other years, obviously -con­sidering the Irish have won the Big East title 10 out of the past 11 years -the Irish have had good, eapable teams. Still, they rarely advaneed to the Sweet 16, and they never advaneed to the Final Four. 
This, Cooper and Brewster are sure, is the year. "We could have [advanced I in the 


ing team chem­istry ­on and ofl' the volleyball  "We get along very well. We're really  past, and we just don't ever ... we fall apart in the  
court. Cooper credits her team's special season, in part, to  good friends. We call each other, and we decide what to  tournament," Cooper said. "We need to peak to have a chanee to  
her fellow seniors. The Glass of five, including Cooper,  go do. We go out to dinner."  win. We need to peak and win the ehampionship."  
has led Notre Dame with solid  Lauren Brewster  There's no easy road, especially  
play and an easy­ Irish middle blocker  now that the Irish  

going yet deter­mined attitude. 
"I think that over the years that we've grown closer as a elass," Cooper said. "We're all really, really good friends. Our personalities just get along real­ly well. We trust each other. We know each other -how we play. We know what to expect from each other." 
Cooper and her teammates are stoked to prove they are the outright Big East champions. While they earned the number one seed for the eonferenee tournament, they tied Louisville with a 13-1 eonferenr.e record. 
have fallen to No. 
8 in the polls after an upset loss last week at Big East rival Pittsburgh. While they'll likely host the first two rounds of the NCAA tourna­ment, it's possible -if they get past those -they could be sent to Omaha or Stanford for the Sweet 16 -the sites which will most likely be swamped with Nebraska and Stanford fans, respeetively. The other two Sweet 16 sites are University Park and College Station. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 




Left, Meg Henlcan gets some height as she prepares to spike the ball over a couple Arizona State blockers In a 3-2 win during the Shamrock Invitational on Sept. 
4. Right, senior Lauren Brewster overpowers two Seton Hall defenders during a clean sweep of the Pirates at the Joyce Center on Sept. 25. 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Thursday, November 17,2005 


Louisville lowdown 
Notre Dame ready to face Villanova in first round of Big East Tournament 

Photos by HY PHAM and BETH WERNET!The Observer 

Left, senior Lauren Kelbley rises for the ball in a 3-0 win over Saint Louis on Nov. 2. Middle, Ashley Tarutis sets the ball during a Sept. 25 shutout win over Seton Hall at the Joyce Center. Right, Kelbley returns the ball against Michigan on Aug. 27, while Tarutis and Meg Henican look on. 
Cardinals, though, Notre Dame have arguably the tougher There's plenty of volleyball to Heintzman said. "They're very
By TOM DORWART 

must get past Villan~>Va and draw. be played before a possible talented. I think it would be a 
Sports Writer 

either Cincinnati or St. John's. Louisville takes on Marquette rematch of Notre Dame and great match, but we still have The Irish beat all three during (16-11, 8-6 Big East) Friday at 6 Louisville, but the confident two matches before. that, Notre Dame is the defending the regular season. p.m. The Golden Irish would welcome it. though." Big East regular season and On Friday after­Eagles took a "Personally, I would love to
"! think definitely 

tournament champion. The noon at 12:30 p.m., game from get a rematch with them Contact Tom Dorwart at Irish have won the postseason No. 1 Notre Dame knowing their Louisville last because they're a great team," tdorwart@nd.edu 
conference title eight out of the past 10 years. But sophomore outside hitter Ellen Heintzman said her team, which holds the tournament's top seed, isn't sat­isfied heading to Louisville, Ky. -for the Big East Tournament. 
"We're extremely fired up," she said. "We still have a lot to prove, and Louisville is a place we can do that." 
A title is, again, the goal for the Irish (24-2, 13-1 Big East) when they head south this weekend. But this year, winning another title appears more diffi­cult than any of the other eight titles the Irish have racked up. 
Louisville (25-1, 13-1 Big East, No. 7 in nation) stands in Notre Dame's way, and the Cardinals will have home-court advantage at Kentucky's International Convention Center in Louisville for their first sea­son playing in the Big East. 
Louisville wants revenge. 
Notre Dame beat then No. 6 and unbeaten Louisville at the Joyce Center on October 29 ­30-28, 30-28, 27-30, 30-27. 
The Irish fell the next week to Pittsburgh, while the Cardinals won, dropping the Irish from No. 5 to No. 8 and keeping the Cardinals at No. 7. 
Before looking ahead to another showdown with the 
will face No. 8-seed Villanova (21-10, 8-6 Big East). The winner of that match will face the winner of the earli­er match between No. 4 seed Cincinnati (18-11, 9-5 Big East) and No. 5 seed St. John's (23-8, 9-5 Big East). 
[Villanova's] tendencies and playing against them really has given us a feel of how they play." 
Ellen Heintzman Irish outside hitter 
Saturday on the road. The next day, in Marquette's final match of the reg­ular season, it swept Cincinnati. 
In the other half of Louisville's bracket, No. 3­seed Syracuse (24-9, 11-3 Big East) takes on 
"It goes both ways, Heintzman said, referring to the advantages and disadvantages of playing a team the Irish have beaten recently. "I think defi­sixth-seeded Pittsburgh (16-11, 9-5 Big East) at 3:30 p.m. Friday. 
Pittsburgh -the only Big East team to knock off the Irish 
nitely knowing their [Villanova's] tendencies and playing against them really has given us a feel of how they play. That definitely helps us out. The fact that we did win gives us confi­dence. 
"But it's still going to be a diffi­cult match because they are 
"They're very talented. I think it would be a great match, but we still have two matches before that, though." 
Ellen Heintzman Irish outside hitter 
during the regular season -looms for Louisville. The Panthers won in Pittsburgh 3-2 against Notre Dame after the Irish opened up two-game lead. 
Both the Cardinals and Irish are already all but assured of reeeiving at-large bids to the NCAA tournament. Each 
going to be wanting revenge, team, of course, also wants to and it's their big chance." be the Big East champion and Since the Irish earned the top­position for strong NCAA tour­seed, the No. 2 seed Cardinals nament seeds. 


by the numbers 
Consecutive Irish home wins, beginning with an Aug. 27 victory over Michigan, 3-0. 
12 

2 626 
Total points accumulated on the season for Notre Dame. ' Opponents managed only 2,118 points against the Irish. 
Aces driven home by outside hitter Lauren Kelbley this season, a team high. The senior has 14 more than her next 
39

closest teammate. 
Total kills on the season for middle blocker Lauren Brewster. The senior averages 4.03 kills per game, con­
367 
tributing to the Irish season total of 1,465 kills. 
Matches won by the third set this season for the Irish. Notre Dame 
17 

won five of its matches by the fourth set and two in the fifth set. 
1 643 
Digs on the season by the Irish, who average 18.1 digs per ' game. 
Average blocks per game executed by Lauren Brewster this season, good enough for fifth in the Big East. 
1.43 

Total blocks accumulated by Notre Dame this season.
320 
Opponents managed only 196.5 blocks against the Irish. 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Thursday, November 17,2005 
page 13 
CD REVIEWS 
50 Cent soundtrack favors image over substance 

'The Road and the Radio' not a very exciting ride 

By TAE ANDREWS 
Scene Criric 
Wlwn 50 Cnnt rnleased his album "Cot Hich or Die Try in"' in 2003, it was tho most explosive album of' the year, packing morn heat on tho box charts than 50 dons in the waistband of' his jnans. 
By contrast, there's definitely morn of a chill f'nnl to "Get Hich or Die Tryin': Music From and Inspired hy the Motion Picturn," as if 50 mistakenly lel't the alhurn in the fridgn next to his bottles or Cristal or perhaps put it on ice in his lwdroom by pladng it amongst his vari­ous diamond-encrusted necklaces. 
Many of the CD's tracks continue in tlw trend of 50 Cent's collaboration with rapper Thn Garno on the hit song, "llat«~ It or Lovn It." The song combined an old-sdwol vibe with feel-good vocal samples to crnatn a sound that was simultarwously brand nnw and an hom­age to Motown. 50 Cent sticks with this winning recipe on "Hustler's Ambition," the first single off of the soundtrack. 
On "Best Friend," a thug love ballad reminiscent of his earlier hit "20 Questions," 50 reminds us that the ladies still light up his bullet-dimpled face. "What If"' is a eontemplative track in which 50 discusses the various possi­ble different ways he could have turned out. (Not surprisingly, none of his alter­native career paths included stints as a librarian or a male nurse.) Along the way, he manages to name-drop nearly every rapper or hip-hopper in the game, in the tradition of his inflamma­tory first single, "II ow to Hob." 
Dnspite its more subdued nature, the album is nonetheless very much in the vein of previous 50 Cnnt discs -it is a nonstop ode to the eopious amounts of lead 50 has !ired, drugs he's done and sold and women he's romanced along the way. Even better, 50's built a stable of talent to ride with. New additions to the G-Unit fold ineludn rap groups M.O.P. and Mobb Deep. Also, SO's origi­nal two sidekicks, Lloyd Banks and Young Buck are back. Although the latter's mediocre show­ing on this CD shows that he may still need to be shown the ways of the herd. What with all the new components 
courtesy 50 Cent and his co-star Joy Bryant look on In a scene from the movie "Get Rich or Die Tryin'," which is loosely based on SO's life. The movie opened Nov. 9. 
of G-Unit, you might think 50 would have a hard time getting his two quar­ters in, but he nevertheless manages to appear on every single track on the album. 
50 Cent is a cultural phenomenon ­he is America's most controversial music star because of his glorification of the gangster thug life. llowever, in his own way, 50 is also a criminal ver­sion of the epitome of the American Dream -having come from abject poverty, he has clawed his way up into multimillionaire status by virtue of his ability to sell drugs and survive bullets. Even more important than the massive tattoo which reads "South Side" across his broad shoulders, 50 wears the badge of street credit, which he has earned by surviving the gang warfare scene of inner-city America and nmnrg­ing on top. 
Buying a 50 Cent album is like buying designer clothing -you are purchasing image over substance. When you buy all 1S tracks of "Got Hieh or Din Tryin': Music From and lnspirnd by tho Motion Picture," you are paying twice for each and every on!l of tho nine bullets 50 survived in his infamous gangland shooting. It is as r·ival Nnw York city rapper Jadakiss so eloquently puts it in "Animal," a battle rap against 50: "You had to get shot nine times to be rich." 
The artist formerly known as Curtis Jackson sells albums by his iconic sta­tus, not by his skill as a rapper. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu 

Hy LIZ HYRUM 
Assistant Scene Editor 
On tho first Iiston through Kenny Clwsrwy's latest releasn, "Tho Hoad and tlw Hadio," tlw overlying themes of loss and soul searching ar11 hard to miss. llow«wer. it might be a little easier to miss somn of llw songs, as many on tho disc snom to fade into the background instnad of popping out at listeners like thn previous work of the famous pop­eountry artist. 
"Tho Hoad and the Badin" debuts on tho hnnls of a tumultuous 2005 for Clwsnny. In tho notes for the title track of tho album. he writes, "no matter what has gone on in my life, there have lwnn two constant things over the past 12 ynars, and that's bnen the road and the radio." 
Aft1~r listening to nntertainment news in tho past fow months, it's obvious why thnsn arn the only two constants in his lifo. While he continued to spend 
Goes Down." Although

The Road and 

Chesney sings a lot about lostthe Radio 
loves on his new album, he alsoKenny Chesney holds true to a few loves that are
Bna Entertainment 
still a part of his life -summer and the simpler life that can be found when you head south. Faster

Recommended tracks: 'The Road and the Radio,' 
tunes like "Beer 
in Mexico" and

'Living in Fast Forward' and 'Beer in Mexico' 
months on the road touring through out the year, he also dealt with the struggles of a short-lived, high-prolile marriage to actress Henee Zellweger (whoso role in Jerry Maguire was tho inspiration for Chesney's song, "You had me at Hello"), which she annulled after only four months. Since then, Chesney has been working overtime to put his life back together, while at the same time record­ing and promoting his latest musical efTort. 
One of the things country fan~ have come to know since the release of "No Shoes, No Shirt, No Problems" in 2002, is that whenever Chesney releases a new CD, he will catch them with the first single and hold tight to his fans from then on out. This reputation may be thrown out the window with his nnwest record. Although the first single, "Who You'd Be Today" is a touching tributn to a lost friend, it fails to attract the same type of attention as the singles from his other recent albums, including "No Shoes, No Shirt, No Problems" and 
"When the Sun 

bring Chesney back as country's king of the islands. But even in these songs, the themes of loss and searching aren't completely forgotten. In "Beer in Mexico," he sings of his plans to "let the warm air melt these blues away," and questions his life plan-"Maybe I'll set­tle down, get married I Or stay single and stay free I Which road I travel I Is still a mystery to me." 
The second track on "The Hoad and the Hadio," "Living in Fast forward," gives an interesting description of' Chesney as a "hillbilly rock star out of control." With a lazy rock tempo, its sound resembles some of Chesney most well-known songs and may be in the lineup for the album's next single. 
Country Music Association's reigning Entertainer of' the Year. Although he was once again nominated for Entertainer of the Year and Malo Vocalist of the Year, he lost out on both awards to orw of his former tour mates and friend, Australian country singer Keith Urban. 
In a recent intervinw with People Magazine, Chesney shared his bnlief that an album "should take you on an emotional roller-coaster ride. I've been on one." "Tho Hoad and the Hadio" does seem to take listeners on a ride through Chesney's emotions -the ride just might not be quite as exciting as he had hoped it would be. 

"Summertime" Until Tuesday night, Chesney was the Contact Liz Byrum at ebyrum@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, November 17, 2005 
NBA 


Iverson drops 42 as the 76ers win sixth straight 
Pacers collapse, choke at free throw line again as Bobcats, Rush run away 
first quarter lead on Tuesday. Wednesday night. 
Associated Press The Raptors cut the lead to It was the both the most TORONTO -Allen Iverson four in the third quarter, but points scored and the largest scored a season-high 42 points Matt Bonner turned the ball margin of victory for the sec­to lead the Philadelphia 76ers . over with a bad pass, allowing ond-year Bobcats. to their sixth straight win, a Iverson to make an uncontested Felton, starting in place of the 121-115 victory over the win­layup. injured Brevin Knight, ignited a less Toronto Raptors on Mitchell slammed his hand on 10-0 run late in the third quar­Wednesday night. the scorer's table before calling ter after Indiana had cut a 14­Andre Iguodala had a career­a timeout. After yelling in frus­point deficit to 71-65. Felton hit high 26 points and 10 rebounds tration, Mitchell launched his two 3-pointers and fed fellow for the Sixers, who also beat clipboard. rookie Sean May with a no-look Toronto on Tuesday night. James cut the lead to two pass leading to a layup in the Mike James had a career-high with a layup with 55 seconds spurt. Felton hit another 3 in 38 points for the Raptors, who left, but missed a potential tying the closing seconds of the peri­fell to 0-8 for the first time in layup before Iverson made two od to give the Bobcats an 89-72 their 11-year history. J a len free throws with less than 30 lead. Rose was scoreless in seven seconds remaining. His steal and layup put minutes of play -his first Chris Webber followed with Charlotte ahead 93-72 early in scoreless game since Feb 20, two more free throws to put the the fourth quarter. 1998 for Indiana at Orlando. game away. He finished with 21 Emeka Okafor added 20 Toronto coach Sam Mitchell points. points and 12 rebounds for the showed his frustration in the Bobcats, wbo shot 53 percent. second half by throwing his Bobcats 122, Pacers 90 Charlotte dominated despite clipboard into the scorer's table Kareem Rush scored a career­being without leading scorer -smashing it into pieces. high 35 points and rookie Gerald Wallace (wrist) and Iverson had 19 points in the Raymond Felton added 18 Knight, who was a late scratch first quarter. His jumper with points and 10 assists in his first with tendinitis his left knee. 
2:09 left in the first quarter career start to help the Ron Artest scored 27 points gave Philadelphia a 20-point Charlotte Bobcats snap a five­and Stephen Jackson added 18 lead -its biggest of the game. game losing streak with a victo­for the Pacers, who committed The Sixers also had a 19-point ry over the Indiana Pacers on 26 turnovers in their second eight days, closed out a six­Orleans Hornets on Wednesday 
straight loss. game road trip with their first night. 
Playing their first game since regulation win of the season. The Hornets cut into a nine­blowing a 14-point lead in a Seattle's previous two victories point deficit with a 9-2 run to loss to Milwaukee on Saturday, were against Minnesota and start the fourth quarter, but the Pacers hit their first eight Toronto in overtime. Anthony scored seven points as shots in racing to a 19-9 lead. "Whenever you have -the last Denver pulled away with a 13-0 
Rush, who made 6-of-7 3-game of a road trip, guys can surge to go up 84-69. pointers, surpassed his previous easily get distracted," Sonics New Orleans closed to 86-79 career-high of 30 points set two coach Bob Weiss said. "Since before Anthony put the game seasons ago when he played for the beginning of the season, our away with a two-handed jam the Los Angeles Lakers. problem has been getting pro­with 1:10 left. 
The Pacers, who missed 10 duction out of other guys Marcus Camby added 15 free throws in the final minutes besides Ray and Rashard points and 15 rebounds and in the loss to the Bucks, were [Lewis]." Andre Miller also scored 15 for just 20-of-36 from the line. Luke Ridnour added 15 points the Nuggets, who won their first 
and 13 assists for Seattle, which road game. SuperSonics 113, Celtics 100 snapped a six-game losing Chris Paul scored 18 points 
Seattle ended its most difficult streak in Boston. The Sonics and David West added 16 for stretch of the season with a had lost four games on the road New Orleans, which lost its win. trip by an average of 26 points. fourth straight game. After 
Ray Allen scored 32 points to "It's such a tough trip and to beating Sacramento 93-67 in lift the Seattle SuperSonics over lose those four games the way their season opener, the the Boston Celtics on we did," Ridnour said. Hornets have lost their last Wednesday night. "Hopefully, we can get back to three games at Oklahoma City's 
"We know we are a better .500 and get going from there." Ford Center, their temporary team than we have displayed in home after Hurricane Katrina the past week," Allen said. "We Nuggets 91, Hornets 81 pushed them out of New got an opportunity to prove that Carmelo Anthony scored a Orleans. tonight and we got on the same season-high 31 points and Anthony was on the bench page more than we have." keyed a decisive 13-point run in when the Hornets started their 
The Sonics (3-5), who were the fourth quarter to help the comeback at the outset of the playing their sixth game in Denver Nuggets beat the New fourth quarter. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 J.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

CollegeGear.com looking for moti· vated internship/campus 
NOTICES representatives. FoR RENT 
Earn marketing and SPRING BREAKERS Book Early resume experience, paid positions WALK TO SCHOOL and Save Lowest Prices available as well. Send email 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES 
Hottest Destinations inquire to info@collegegear.com MMMRENTALS.COM 
BOOK 15=2 FREE TRIPS OR 532-1408 CASH FREE MEALS/PARTIES BY Caring, organized individuals 11/7 Highest Commission Best needed to place House for rent. Travel Perks exchange students in local 3 BR, 1 BA, 2 Car Gar. www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800-schools and host Clay Area. $700/mo. 426-7710 families. Earn a per-student 574-210-8308. 
stipend and possible travel to New 3/4 Bedroom Homes, 3 Full Europe. 888-266-2921 KRAMER PROPERTIESHOUSES Baths, 2+ Car Garage, Fireplace, or sumckeen@ie-usa.com FOR LEASE F Cathedral Ceilings, OR THE 06/07 SCHOOL YEAR. 1Ox20 Deck, Close to Campus, START @$70 for a 5 hour event! CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 1700.00 monthly, Available Aug Responsible for promoting brands, 4 BEDROOMS, UP TO 10 BED­06/07, Call574-232-4527, 269-683-distributing samples/brochures & ROOMS. 5038 demonstrating products to con-CALL 315-5032 ASK 
sumers. FOR KRAMER. Part-time & weekends 4-6 hours. Apply at www.eventsandpromo-GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH­
WANTED 

tions.com BORHOODS 
06/07 & 07/08 CHRISTMAS HELP NOW! $12.25 CollegeGear.com looking for moti-andersonNDrentals.com base/appt. Flexible schedules vated internship/campus represen-57 4-233-994 7 around classes. customer sales & tatives. Earn marketing and resume service, conditions apply, all ages experience, paid positions available 3-6 bdrm homes for 06/07. Also 17 & older. Call Nowl574-273-as well. Send email inquiry to info avail. now. 3835. @ collegegear.com 57 4-329-0308. 
For rent: Two story house com- Closest house to campus.  
pletely remodeled 2003.  2-min. walk to library.  
Ready for immediate occupancy or  Fully furnished,  PERSONAL  
next semester or next school year.  new carpet &  
Off street parking includes motion  appliances.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
sensor light for security.  2-car garage.  Do not go it alone. If you or some- 
Four individually locked bedrooms,  Avail Now.  one you love needs  
central station monitored security  Just bring clothes.  confidential support or assistance,  
system, six blocks from Notre  John 949-456-0343. $895.  please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at  
Dame, bus stop in front of house,  1-7819.  
surrounded by other student hous- Stop overpaying for rent.  For more information, see our bi­ 
ing,  Visit BlueGoldrentals.com  weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  
Laundromat next door, basement  
available for storage of bicycles,  SPRING BREAK- 
luggage, trunks, etc., new furnace and central air, new  TICKETS  Early Booking Specials-FREE Meals & Drinks ­ 
kitchen including new stove and  $50 Deposit ­ 
refrigerator, large living room for TV  WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  800-234-7007  
or entertaining, free trash removal.  TOP$$ PAID.  www.endlesssummertours.com  
Call 289-4071 .  251-1570.  
Bahamas Spring Break Cruise!  
123 ND Ave. 3 bdrm, 1.5 bath. Call  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  5 Days from $299! Includes Meals,  
574-229-0149.  289-9280  MTV Celebrity Parties!  
OR VISIT OUR  Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica  
HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6  WEBSITE  From $499!  
bdrms includes all utilities, local  FOR$$: www.victorytickets.com  Campus Reps Needed!  
phone,washer/dryer,security sys­ PromoCode:31  
tern. $400/student.  BUYING &  www.springbreaktravel.com  
574-315-2509  SELLING ND  1-800-678-6386  
ndstudentrentals.com 2006  FOOTBALL TIX.  
SPRING SEMESTER NOW AVAIL­ CHECK MY PRICES.  Hi Mike.  
ABLE.  273-3911.  Classifieds are fun ... Buy stuff.  

Thursday, November 17, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NHL 

Blue Jackets singing the Blues in Sergei Fedorov's debut 
Crosby's breakaway overtime goal gives Penguins the win 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Lee Stmnpniak had a goal and an assist in the third period, and Curtis Sanford posted his sec­ond c:arner shutout in St. Louis' 2-0 victory over the Columbus Blue Jac:kets on Wednesday night that ended the Blues' f'ranehisn-reeord, 11-game los­ing skid. 
The game was also Sergei Fedorov's debut in a Blue Jaekets uniform. Fedorov was acquired in a tradn with Analwim on Tuesday. 
Seott Young added a goal for tho Blues, who hadn't won since a :J-2 victory over Anaheim on Oet. 19. 
Sanford, spelling starter Patrick Lalime, stopped 36 shots in only his 1Oth NIIL ganw. 
Sternpniak, who scored the Bluns' only goal a week earlier in Columbus in a 3-1 loss, broke up tlw seomlnss game with 7:47 rnma1n1ng. Blue Jackets def'ensnrnan Bryan Berard's blind pass from the blue line went to Stnmpniak, who was all alonn coming in from the left wing on goaltender Marc Denis with Jan llrdina trying to cut him ofT. Stempniak coasted in front across the crease, faked 
and then flipped the puck past Denis. The unassisted goal was Stempniak's third of' the year. 
Young added an insurance goal with just 3:17 left, stretch­ing out his arm with his stick to redirect Stempniak's centering pass. 
Columbus, which has lost seven of' eight, outshot tho Blues 36-16 and had numerous prime scoring opportunities. The Blue Jackets wore 0-for-5 on the power play, running their man­advantage drought to 21 straight. 
Fedorov looked f'luid while shaking ofT jet lag -he arrived in Columbus on Wednesday al'ternoon after a 15 l/2-hour trip -to get ofT three shots in the opening period. 
Penguins 3, Flyers 2, OT 
Sidney Crosby scored his sec­ond goal of the game on a breakaway with 46.7 seconds left in overtime, leading the Pittsburgh Penguins to a victory over the Philadelphia Flyers on Wednesday night. 
Hyan Malone had a goal, and Marc-Andre Fleury stopped 45 shots, helping the Penguins improve to 6-3-2 since going winless in their l'irst nine games. 
Joni Pitkanen scored two power-play goals for Philadelphia, which had won nine straight at home. 
Crosby took a long, breakout pass from Malone near center ice, skated in alone and beat Antero Niittymaki to win it. 
Fleury stopped two point­blank shots by Mike Knuble and Mike Hathje in overtime. He started because a puck hit Jocelyn Thibault in the throat in warmups. Thibault's injury did­n't appear serious. 
Pitkanen scored his goals 1:34 apart to tie it after the Penguins had scored twice in a 56-second span early in the third. 
Pitkanen took a crisp pass from NHL assists-leader Peter Forsberg and one-timed a shot just inside the post to tie it 2-2 at 6:44 of the third. 
He slipped a shot between Fleury's legs to cut the deficit to 
2-1. 
Malone gave the Penguins a 1-0 lead with a power-play goal 
2:03 into the third. He got a pass from Crosby and slapped a shot past Niittymaki. Crosby stuffed one in during a scram­ble in front of the net to make it 2-0. 
Islanders 7, Thrashers 3 
Shawn Bates scored twice, including a short-handed goal in the closing minutes of the third period to help the New York Islanders to their third straight victory, this one over the Atlanta Thrashers on Wednesday night. 
Bates clinched the win with his eighth goal with just over seven minutes left and the Islanders leading 4-3 when he beat Thrashers goaltender Adam Berkhoel on a breakaway with his team down a man. 


Miroslav Satan, who also had two goals, made it 6-3 with about four minutes remaining. Jason Blake made it a rout with a power-play goal with 27 sec­onds left in the Islanders' high­est-scoring game of the season. 
Atlanta had outscored oppo­nents 19-2 in winning three in a row. Ilya Kovalchuk scored a franchise-record six goals in his previous two games, but was scoreless against the Islanders. 
New York took a 2-0 first­period lead. 
Bates opened the seoring just over six minutes in and Trent Hunter scored his third goal on a power play with about three minutes remaining in the peri­od. 
Atlanta's Jaroslav Modry scored seven minutes into the second period to make it 2-1, beating goalie Garth Snow on a 20-f'oot slap shot from the left side. 
The Thrashers were trying to match a franchise-best four wins in a row, whieh they did twice in 2003-04 -on Nov. 16­23 and on Dec. 6-12. 





IVITERVIATIOVIAL E 0 tACATI<:>Ill 

Biology .a bepc:u-t·wnen"t' o"f Arn~ric:on .S1'Udiies "" A.AA OL.A <:< Ah..1rnni .A.ssocia....-ion
03 

For a calendar of events uo to: www.nd.edu/-lssa/IEW 
THURSDAY,NOVEMBER17 
INTERNATIONAL WOMEN'S CLUB, INTERNATIONAL DANCE LESSON 
3:30pm, University Village Community Center 
THE KELLOGG INSTITUTE PRESENTS AN INTERNATIONAL LECTURE 
"US Foreign Policy and the Holy See: The Diplomatic Path Toward Peace, Freedom and Justice" James F. Creagan, American Ambassador (ret.) and Kellogg Institute Guest Scholar 5:30pm, Hesburgh International Center Auditorium 
NANOVIC INSTITUTE PRESENTS THE FILM Monsieur Ibrahim 
7 & 10 pm Browning Cinema, DeBartolo Center for Performing Arts. Tickets go on sale November 7 at DPAC Box Office 
FISHCER GRADUATES RESIDENCES' CHINESE DUMPLING SOCIAL FOR GRADUATE STUDENTS 
7 -8pm, Fischer Community Center 
Full Week Calendar of Events at: www.nd.edu/~issa/IEW.htm 
page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 17, 2005 

a 

SENIORS, JUNIORS, SOPHOMORES & FIRSTYEAR STUDIES!
..0 

Network and interview with select employers in
ua 
0 


NewYork, D.C., Chicago & Boston over winter break.
ID • 
0 
Dl 

• NewYork City-January 4, 2006
ta 

• Washington D.C. -January 5, 2006 
••u 

• Chicago-January 6, 2006 
.c 
u 

• Boston-January 9, 2006 
• 
I 
u
•
a 

The deadline to apply for interviews in all cities is 
a 

November 28, 2005. 
..0 
Dl 
a 

Attend an information session to learn more: 
.c 

• How to apply
ua 

• Find out who is attending and what they are recruiting for
~ 

• How to prepare for the event
• 

Monday, November 21st from 4:00-S:OOpm in 114 Flanner Hall 

The Interdisciplinary Minor in 
Education, Schooling, and Society 
Is Calling All 

Sophomores! 




Are you interested in... 
NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 

A thick fleece 


*the relationship between

coat is perfect 

education and society
for winter. 

*teaching and learning
Ask any yak. 

*race and school equity issues 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for 

Please visit our website:
wet-weather protection. 

http://www.nd.edu/-edss Need more information?
~ 

Contact Nancy McAdams
DUTPDIIT Hours: 

nmcadams@nd.edu; 1-0985
Mon. ·Fri.: 1o:oo am -9:00pm

s ors 

Sat: 1o:oo am -8:oopmCold Weather Experts Sun.: 12:oo pm -6:oopm 








OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, November 17, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Pagel? 
NHL 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division team record pts. last 10 NV Rangers 11-6-3 25 7·3·0 Philadelphia 11-4-1 23 7-2·1 NV Islanders 9·9·0 18 5·5·0 New Jersey 8·8·2 18 4·4·2 Pittsburgh 5·8·6 16 5·4·1 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division t1~am record pts. last 10 Montreal 13·3·3 29 6-1-3 
Ottawa 13·3·0 26 7·3·0 Toronto 10-7-2 22 5·5·0 Boston 7-7-5 19 3·2·5 Buffalo 9·9·0 18 3-7-0 

Eastern Conference, Southeast Division lNUn record pts. last 10 Carolina 13-3-1 27 9-1-0 Tampa Bay 8-9-3 19 3-6-1 Florida 6-9-4 16 1-5·4 Atlanta 7-9-1 15 5·4-1 Washington 7-11-0 14 4-6-0 
Western Conference, Central Division learn record pts. last 10 Detroit 15-3-1 31 7-2-1 
Nashville 12-2-3 27 5-2-3 Chicago 7-11·0 14 4·6-0 Columbus 5-13-0 10 3-7-0 St. louis 2-12-3 7 0-8-2 

Western Conference, Northwest Division 
tnam rncord pts. last 1 0 Vancouver 11·5·2 24 5·4-1 Calgary 11-7·2 24 1-2-1 Edmonton 10-9-1 21 7·3·0 Colorado 9-6·2 20 6·3·1 Minnesota 8·9-2 18 3·6·1 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pt.<;. last 10 Los Angeles 12-6-1 25 0-0 Dallas 11-6-1 23 0·0 Phoenix 9-9·2 20 0·0 San Jose 8·1·2 18 0·0 Anaheim 7-7-4 18 0·0 
Women's College Volleyball 
Big East Conference 
East Division 

tmun  conf.  pet.  overall  pet.  
NOTRE DAME  13·1  0.929  24-2  0.923  
louisville  13·1  0.929  25·1  0.962  
Syracuse  11-3  0.786  24·9  0.727  
Cincinnati  9·5  0.643  18·11  0.621  
St. John's  9·5  0.643  23·8  0.742  
Pittsburgh  9·5  0.643  16-11  0.593  
Marquette  8·6  0.571  16-11  0.593  
Villanova  8·6  0.571  21·10  0.677  
Connecticut  7-1  0.500  15·13  0.536  
Rutgers  6·8  0.429  11-16  .  0.407  
West VIrginia  4·10  0.286  16·13  0.552  
Seton Hall  4-10  0.286  14-16  0.467  
Georgetown  2·12  0.143  6·22  0.214  
DePaul  1-13  0.071  4-23  0.148  
USF  1-13  0.071  3·22  0.120  

around the dial 
NBA 
Washington at Minnesota 7 p.m., TNT 
Houston at San Antonio 9:30 p.m., TNT 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Syracuse vs. Texas Tech 9 p.m., ESPN 

GOLF PGA Tour: WGC -World Cup 8 a.m., ESPN LPGA Tour: ADT Championship 3 p.m., 
The Golf Channel 

COLLEGE fOOTBALL Stephen F. Austin at Northwestern State 7:30 p.m., ESPNU 
NFL 

Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA-The Philadelphia Eagles could­n't win without Terrell Owens. Now they won't have Donovan McNabb. 
The five-time Pro Bowl quarterback will miss Philadelphia's game against the New York Giants on Sunday with a groin injury. 
Mike McMahon, who had been the third-string quar­terback, will get the start over backup Koy Detmer. 
McNabb's status beyond this week is uncertain. He'll see a specialist Thursday. McNabb has played through several lllJUries this season, including a sports hernia that will require surgery. 
He originally planned to have the surgery after the season, but it's possible he'll have it sooner. 
"It's pretty much a mat­ter of when I will have it. It'll be the first surgery I have, so I'm not excited about going under the knife," McNabb said Wednesday. 
"There are some ques­tions that have been answered and I am going to other people to hear their opinion and I will make a decision after­ward. 
"Us being 4-5 or 1-8 or 7-2, it doesn't matter. Being the quarterback of this team and the leader of this team, I want to be out there at all times. I have full confidence that we can turn this around." 
The reigning conference champion Eagles (4-5) have lost three consecutive games and are last in the NFC East. They've lost both games since suspend­ing Owens on Nov. 5. The All-Pro wideout was told not to return to the team last week following a series of incidents, includ­ing repeated criticism of McNabb and insulting the organization. 
McNabb put himself on the spot by saying the team was "better ofT' without Owens, its top playmaker. But he failed to back up his statement, throwing a crucial inter­ception that led to a 21-20 loss to Dallas on Monday night. 
McNabb reinjured his groin while trying to tackle Cowboys safety Hoy Williams after he misread the coverage and threw the pick. Williams returned it 46 yards for the go-ahead touchdown with 2:43 left. 
McMahon nearly led Philadelphia to the win­ning score after coming in for the last series. 

IN BRIEF 
Colts unfazed b_y Bengals'
Johnson, and fiis mouth 
INDIANAPOLIS-When receiver Chad Johnson speaks, the Indianapolis Colts laugh. They don't worry about Johnson's playful remarks, guarantees or even his cho· reographed celebrations. 
Instead, they're amused by the reg­ular act. 
But the Colts do have one item on their to-do list this week: Keeping The Mouth quiet Sunday when the NFL's last unbeaten team visits Cincinnati. 
"Whatever he has planned, I don't want to see it," cornerback Nick Harper said Wednesday, laughing. "He can save it for next week." 
Johnson's antics have included everything from sending opposing cornerbacks Pepto-Bismol bottles to holding up preprinted signs asking NFL officials not to fine him. He's done the Riverdance, the Salsa and now that the Bengals are into the second half of the season, Johnson is promising to bring out the "good" stuff. 
Whatever moves Johnson makes, the Colts seem to enjoy them. 
"I think it's funny, I think a lot of guys think it's funny," said wide receiver Brandon Stokley, who caught 10 touchdowns last season with nar~ a peep. Penn State looks to secure Big Ten title on Saturday STATE COLLEGE, Pa. -Kerry Collins, Ki-Jana Carter and Kyle Brady walked on to the Beaver Stadium field on a cool, dreary April day to the cheers of Penn State fans. 
Other members of the Nittany Lions' undefeated 1994 team were also on hand that afternoon for a ceremony during the spring scrim­mage to honor the squad that won the school's first Big Ten crown. 
Penn State hasn't won another since, but maybe that April event was an omen. 
The fifth-ranked Nittany Lions (9­1, 6-1) can secure at least a share of their second Big Ten title if they beat Michigan State on Saturday. 
"It's been talked about a lot ... to really bring back Penn State to where things were before," line­backer Paul Posluszny said about possibly ending the 11-year drought. Race collision injures jock­ey, kills two horses ANDERSON, Ind.-A jockey was injured and two horses euthanizod after an accident at the Iloosier Park horse racing track Wednesday. 
Jockey Hector Hosario Jr.'s horse, Version, fell heading into the first turn during the first race, unseating him. 
Another horse, Cape Fear, ridden by Stove Capeles, was also involved in the accident. 
The track veterinarian examined the horses, and both Cape Fear and Version were euthanized. track olli­cials said in a news release. 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 17, 2005 
MLB 
Yankees.sign Matsui to 4-year, $52 million deal 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Hideki Matsui sat behind a table in Yankee Stadium, happy to know he will be back with New York for the next four seasons. Whether be remains in left field or is moved to center remains to be deter­mined. 
"He says, 'Whatever you want me to do,' but he did allow me the fact that center field is probably his most comfortable position," Yankees manager Joe Torre said Wednesday, a day after Matsui agreed to a $52 million, four-year contract. "He gets a jump even though he's not overly fast." 
New York knows poor center­field defense by Bernie Williams was a glaring weakness the last few years. With Williams now a free agent, the Yankees say they intend to add an outfielder. 
Brian Giles, a free agent who will be 35 next season, is among the players the Yankees are interested in -for center or left. 
"The little I saw of Giles was when he was with Cleveland," Torre said, going back to the late 1990s. "He was an extra player there and looked like a guy who could do some things. I'm talking about added dimen­sion to your ballclub, the fact that he can run, the fact that he's one of those hard-nosed type players." 
Joe Bick, Giles' agent, said his client could play a corner out­field spot or center. Giles hasn't played more than 17 games in one season in center since 2001. 

"I don't even know what the Yankees' plans are. That's for them to determine. It's not for us to dictate," Bick said. "Brian doesn't care where in the out­field he plays." 
Yankees general manager Brian Cashman said that Williams' agent, Scott Boras, called him Tuesday but that the Yankees weren't ready to talk about Williams until later in the offseason. Torre wouldn't mind having the 37 -year-old Williams back in a secondary role. 
"I still think that he's got baseball left, but a lot of it depends on the makeup of this club, if there's a fit for him," Torre said. 
Matsui is to earn $13 million in each of the next four seasons and gets a no-trade clause. He was coming off a $21 million, three-year contract in which he earned an additional $1.5 mil­lion in performance bonuses. 
Phone 
1-7800 
Main Office 
319 CoMo 
Retreats Office 
114 CoMo 
Web 

What is the Angelus? Does it have something to do with the chiming ofthe Basilica's bells? 
If you've ever been walking near the Basilica around the 12:00 noon or :00 pm hours, you may have wondered why the bells began to ring in a certain that is definitely not the same toll as they normally do on each hour. What heard was not, in fact, Quasi modo playing a trick on the Notre Dame com-by ringing the bells out of sequence, but rather the ancient Christian call to known as the Angelus. The Angelus is a traditional prayer that encourages us to pray in honor Mary and call to mind the significance of the Incarnation of Jesus Christ at 
distinct times each day (6:00am, 12:00 noon, and 6:00pm) whereby one's hole day, beginning, middle, and end, are framed within the context of faith. The us obtains its name from the Latin word for "angel," the first word of the 
By the 14th century, the tradition of the Angelus had developed to serve as means of allowing the laity to enter into the monastic call to prayer symbolized the ringing of bells. When our Basilica ·s tower rings the Angelus, you will hear series of three sets of three rings, each followed by a pause, and then a series of strikes in a row. As memorialized in Millet's famous painting The Angelus, ith the ringing of the church bells, people within earshot traditionally stop their and p~ay the following prayer as the bells ring: 
the first set of three rings: 

The angel l~f'the Lord declared unto Mary, and she conceived ofthe Holy Spirit. 
(Hail Mary, full of grace, ... ) 
uring the second set of three rings: 

Behold the handmaid r~l the Lord! May it be done unto me according to Yrmr Wlml. (Hail Mary ... ) 
the third set of three rings: And the Wort/ was llULdeflesh and dwelt among us. (Hail Mary ... ) 
the final nine strikes: 

Pray for us, 0 hof.v Mother ofGod, that ~>ve may be made worthy r~l the promises ofChrist. 
Let us pray: 0 Lord, it was through the message ofan angel that we teamed ofthe Incarnation l~l Christ, Yrmr Son. Pour Yrmr grace into our hearts, and His Passion and cross bring us to the glory l~l His Resurrection. Through Christ, our Lord. Amen. 

the next time you hear the bells ring the Angelus, think of this prayer and lr""""".,.,h•>r this most significant event of our faith, made ever more timely as we 
•""'nr""''h the Advent season! Have a blessed week! 
Send uestions to Brett Perkins: Perkins.26@nd.edu! 
Campus Ministry owes a great debt of-gratitude to its new webmaster Ryan Ricketts. Ryan updated and redesigned the entire Campus Ministry website and the fruits of his labor can be seen at campusministry.nd.edu. Ryan is a Busi­ness MIS and Graphic Design double ma­jor and he has put his graphic design ski! to great use for the benefit of Campus Ministry. Ryan has logged tremendous hours in redesigning our website but has not let that deter him frorri being a leader in other important aspects of his life. Ryan is the president of Iron Sharpens Iron (lSI), an interdenominational Chris­tian praise and fellowship group whose 
I00 strong members meet every Thursday night to praise God through song and listen to talks given by their members. He also nurtures his faith through attend­ing the weekly Men of God (MOG) bible study which flows from the large group lSI sessions. Even with Ryan giving so much of his time to ministry endeavors he still pours more of his valuable time into Stanford Hall where he is the Vice Presi­dent. Lastly, if you have not met Ryan before, keep a look out for him spring Semester during the annual Faith Rocks Music Festival. Ryan will be heading a group of students who work relentlessly each year to bring Christian music bands to perform on campus each spring. So if you see a guy running the show at Faith Rocks, say hello to Ryan and ask him he manages to fit in sleep with all of the 
he does for other people! 
Let us know who out there 
is making a difference! 
Send nominations to 
Brian Vassel at 

Thursday, November 17, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
chances, a success rate of H7.6 mates to shut those guys down," percent. Paige said of' his linn's rnsponsi­
Paige 

Paige has been instrumental bility. "That's a big part of it 

on not .only penalty kill draws, right there, doing thosn things
continued from page 24 

but on the unit as a whole this game in and game out to hnlp 
season. He has helped the spn­the team win." tant captain, being chosen for cial teams squad to recover from The resurgnnt Irish have been the honor last season along with an early season on the upswing another current assistant cap­swoon and become al'ter sweeping
"I take pride in

tain, Mike Walsh. more efficient at Bowling Green at "There's a lot of ups and dealing with a man trying to keep the home last wnnk­downs in the season," Paige down. The Irish end in back-to­
team motivated 

said. "It's easy to get away from penalty kill cur­hack gam~s. 9-4
every game. 

what Coach is asking us to do, rently boasts a and 4-2. and I take pride in trying to keep .754 SUCCI~SS rate, A lot of thn early the team motivated every allowing 15 goals Jason Paige season struggles game." in 61 chances. did not come from
Irish center 

Paige had an explosive fresh­"It's easy to be a laek of solid play man season, scoring 10 goals hesitant, but it's by the Irish, but and assisting on six more, but one of the things were trying to from the fact that they have since has evolved into a much focus on, not giving guys time to played three top-1 0 teams in more defensive player on the set up with the puck and stuff Michigan, Colorado College and iee. The center is a penalty kill like that," Paige said. "The more Denver. specialist, as well as being profi­aggressive we can be, the better "I think this year more than cient at winning faceoffs. off we will be. We've been doing last year, wn have rnoni of' a 
When those two talents are that of late and its been help­direction as far as the tnam," combined, Jackson looks ing." Paige said. "Wn have goals laid nowhere else to find the answer Jackson has placed Paige and out that each game we want to to his problems. his linemates -Bartlett and accomplish." 
"That is the most critical time freshman Garrett Hegan -into One of thosn goals set by on pnnalty kill, right ofT the facn­a unique role within this Irish Jackson and his staff is to nnt off, because you don't have a lot lineup. lie likes to match the the first goal in every gamn. 
of chance to pressure off the checking line with the oppo­Paige bditw1~s that these goals 
faceoff if you lose it," Jackson nent's top offensive line in an will help the Irish to keep moti­said. "So winning attempt to nflu­vated through the long eolh~gn the facnoff draws tralize thn opposi­hockey season. is very important "The more tion's scoring And they will need plenty of to the success of aggressive we can capabilities. motivation this weekend as they pnnalty killing and But at the same take on yet another nationally
be, the better offwe
that's kind of time Jackson ranknd team in No. 14 Miami of where IPaignJ spe­will be." hopes that the Ohio. But with Paige knocking cializes." threesome can opponents into the sheet and his In his freshman contribute on the teammates picking up those
Jason Paige
season, Paige offensive side of loose pucks, the Irish feel
Irish center
teamed up with the puck as well. unstoppable. Michael Bartlett I le notes that with "We want to be the best; wn and prnsnnt captain T.J. Jindra Regan's speed and the "gritty" have to beat the best in order to to become the best Notre Dame play of Paige and Bartlett the be on top," Paige said. penalty kill unit in the school's offensive option is always open. history. The trio allowed only 22 "He puts the weight on the Contact Kyle Cassity at power play goals on 174 shoulders of me and my line-kcassily@nd.edu 

631-2000 

Bookstore. www.themorrisinn.com 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 

GREAT LIFESTYLE 
Turtle Creek Aartments 


Adjacent to Campus! Remodeled Apartments 
www.campuscribs.net 
1.866.395.4201 
Available 
Thursday, November 17, 2005 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
son of varsity volleyball. As a middle hitter on this year's team, she was third on the team in kills. 
Although it is just Bender's first year on the basketball team, Boyce calls her an "excellent natural leader." 
Nicole Tucker, a guard, has 
also attended Saint Mary's for four~ years. Though this is her first year with the team, she has helped make the college transition for the team's six freshmen as easy as possible. 
"The seniors are leading by exam­ple and working very hard in prac­
"The seniors are lot of people this year," Boyce, said.
leading by example 
"We're looking
and working very 
forward to it." hard in practice. Along with the 
That's really all I three seniors, the 
Belles· have two 
can ask for. " 
other returning players -guards 
Steve Bender Bridget Lipke and Alison Kessler.
Belles coach 
tice," Belles coach Steve Bender said. "That's really all I can ask for." 
And even though he has implemented a new offensive system, Bender said the Belles "are doing a terrific job and learning it very quickly," thanks in no small part to the seniors. 
"[The seniors] are very ath­letic so we should be able to play a fast-paced game," Bender said. 
Boyce admitted she some­times feels like a newcomer herself in the new, up-tempo style of play. She said she is excited as the team heads into its first regular season game against Hanover this Friday. 
Although the Belles are ranked just seventh out of nine in the MIAA Coaches' Poll, Boyce and her teammates remain optimistic about their 
chances.  
"I feel like, with the  new  
offense,  we  can  
really surprise  a  

Bender said the 
five veterans give the team a solid foundation upon which to build a cohesive team. 
"We're anticipating a solid, exciting season," Bender said. 
Two seasons ago, Saint Mary's increased its win total by four to seven. 
Last season, they duplicated that feat. winning 11 games, including eight in the MIM. 
Contact Fran Tolan at 
ftolan@nd.edu 




BOOK A PARTY PACKAGE 
110111. ACCOMODAIION, \. ~LUB PASSLS, DIS<...DUN IS IZ.OOMS AS LOW AS $20 PI It PLRSON PI R NICIII 
1-888-245-6171 
19+ to enter with valid ID 
For more info visit peppersbarandgrill.com or Call 1.888.243.6171 
P("'<>:.nnrtc nnt r'Pnnir~N tn o::onl~,. C'"nnorlnl fRidh ro::o,.tifir-ot ... rm.-1 onvo::ornmo::ont Phntn lrl t'lnlvl 
Write Sports. Call Mike at 1-4543. 


Thursday, November 17, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
.. 


Me01ory 
continued from page 24 
The veteran coach also said that although he has not changed his practices, there has been a visible difl'erence in the way the 2005 team goes through its workouts, especially with four out of the five scoring runners from last year's squad back to motivate the rest of the team. 
"It hasn't been that the work­outs are any din"erent, it's more the attitude," Piane said. "It's not only the training, but their atti­tude which is different. ll's not 
TIM Observer just four or live guys, it's tJ1e first 
Notre Dame's Kurt Benninger runs to the head of the pack during the Notre Dame Invitational on guy down to the 25th guy. It 
Sept. 30. Benninger will lead the Irish Into the NCAA Championships In Terre Haute, Ind. Monday. started with the upper classImen I. Benninger and the tlm~e seniors IKaleb Van Ort, Tim Moore, and Sean O'Donnoll." 

'~" ,,,..~ while you were out 
Benninger said he feels the team's focus on this year's NCAA Championships will be an advan­tage come race time on Monday. 
"Racing's so mental, especially when you get to this level and everyone is equally as strong, equally as fit, and equally as good, that mental edge is just huge," he said. 
The junior has a routine of going through each race in his 
head before he runs it. Most 
meets he focuses on the week 
before, but the NCAAs have been 
on his mind for much longer. 
"I just like to go over the raee 
and try to figure out what I want 
to aceomplish and where I want 
to be at certain points over the 
race," Benninger said. "I want to 
prepare for anything that could 
happen. For me that process 
started belim~ I IWfm got Lo cam­
pus this fall, planning the race 
out and everything." 
Last year's meet was also held 
in Tern1 llaute. Them had been 
rain in the w1~ek leading up to 
the race, which made the eourse 
sloppy. Benninger said the condi­
tions and his fast start hindered 
the team's and his personal por­
limnanen in 2004. 
"Porsonally, I just didn't run 
smart. I wont out to thn front and 
was leading the raen narly on, 
hut I wasn't on that level quito 
ynt," he said. "It was very muddy, 
which didn't play into my 
strengths." 
Freshman Patrick Smyth will .replace dnpartnd snnior Hyan 
Johnson -the only scoring run­
ner from last year's NCAAs who 
did not return for this season. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


SYMPHONIC WINDS AND CONCERT BANDS 


UNIVERSITY OUTFITTERSnt 
the campus store off campus,.. 
located in the Martin's Supermarket Plaza 1 block east of Turtle Creek Apartments 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC

243-4197 

Offering alfon:lableAlUMNI FIElD flying lessons 
from South Bend Regional Airport 

MEN·s VVOMEN·s 
GttJ::llir1 ~liD
1m!llilJID1)Cill 
, 8tUJillTIIIII1J[{] UIR!EGI1IIIffiiiiJ]] ~tlii01i:BJiiNIJ ~ 811h ~ tillOOiilDID 
MEN'S BASKETBALL Joyce Center Arena Sunday November 20 vs. Lafayette at 2pm 
Write 
Sports. 
Call 
1-4543. 
• 


.. 
«A>rne and rnio"Y Ltve -...sic and 47rea't r()()d in ,....,vernber a't 
~ffVffl &~ 
FOOTBALL FRJOAYS@ FEVER 18TH EARGASM . 25TH DANGEROUS JIM POST 
DoORS OPEN @ 9 $1 AND $2 DRINK SPECIALS 222 SoUTH MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND VsAN'VV. CLUBFEVER. BIZ 'NIJ',r.N. 2221TAUANSTEAKHOUSE. COM 

presents 
THE CUSHWA CENTER 

Notre Dame strong safety Tom Zbikowski (9) and linebacker Brandon Hoyte (39) defend against the 
FOR THE STUDY OF

run during a 17-10 Irish win over Michigan on Sept. 10. Notre Dame faces Syracuse on Saturday. 

compares Robinson's defense to And the Irish will try to send 
that of USC coach Pete Carroll. their seniors out the right way on
Seniors 
"He's a very good coach, and Saturday -with a win. continued from page 24 he's very close with Pete," Weis "We try to win," Weis said. 
said. "They go all the way back "That's how you honor [the sen­you're coaching at. You always from high school, right through iors]. There would be nothing put pressure on the players to college. They coached together. I worse than to honor a group of 
The Hibernian Lecture 

make sure that there's never a remember years ago they were guys with a loss. That's the whole letup because when you let up as on the same staff for the Jets, point is to respect your opponent, a coach, you're just opening the and their philosophies are very know your opponent, know the 
"Creating Sacred Space and Reclaiming Irish 

door where there's a possibility of similar." strengths. know the weaknesses, 
Music and Art in Chicago" 

a letdown. Regardless of how The Irish face an Orange team play for your seniors." mature your team is, you never that doesn't have a starting quar­
Ellen Skerrett 

can let up." terback for Saturday's game just Notes: 
The Orange, which lost 27-0 to yet. Perry Patterson and Joe + Weis had the Irish practicing South Florida last Fields will both outside on Wednesday to get week, are led by used to the cold weather that has 
Friday, November 18, 2005

"Regardless oifhow play, Robinson said 
first-year head in his Tuesday mostly avoided South Bend this 
4:30p.m.

coach Greg mature your team press conference. fall. He wants the team to be 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium 

Robinson, who Fields struggled ready for chilly conditions on
is, you never can 

coached at Texas last week against Saturday.
let up.,, 

last season and in South Florida, "It was a little colder than it the NFL before going 3-for-9, good will be on Saturday, but it was that. As a result, Charlie Weis for 18 yards and good for them because it was he is a familiar fig­one interception. such a drastic drop from what
Irish coach 

ure to both Weis Patterson didn't we've had," Weis said. 
te Sports.

and offensive coor-play much better, "I was a little chilly, but I was dinator Michael Haywood. going 5-for-16, good for 47 yards pleased." llaywood and Hobinson coached and an interception of his own. together last season at Texa, However, the Syracuse defense Contact Heather Van Hoegarden 
Calll--4543

where Haywood was the co-spe­is solid. Safety Anthony Smith at hvanhoeg@nd.edu cial teams coordinator/recruiting leads the nation with six inter­coordinator and Robinson was ceptions. the co-defensive coordinator. "He's one of those guys that has 
"You get a lot of different a nose for the football," Weis schemes from him, depending on said. "Sometimes the ball gravi­who the opponent he's playing," tates to certain people. Haywood said. "He does a great Sometimes I don't even know job of putting those guys in posi­why. You could say, well, it's cov­

t, Spacious
tions to have some success." erage schemes, but sometimes Weis is familiar with Robinson's being in the right place at the 
•

defensive schemes through the right time, but for some reason NFL, where Robinson coached the ball comes to certain people from 1990-2003. Robinson, like on defense. It always has seemed 
ruque 
·-1 

Weis, wears his Super Bowl ring to be that way, and he happens to 
,,,.
.. 

for recruits. And Weis said he be one of those guys." 
·.? .ts. ~.:
;· j 

resenting a truly unique environment for your next special occasion, the College Football Hall of Fame offers extraordinary venues. From intimate gatherings to lavish events serving up to 250 guests. With extensive catering service available, the Hall offers a refreshingly distinct setting. 
For more information please call574..235..7716 or click on Facility Rentals at www.collegefootball.org 



Perfect setting for your Holiday Party! Book now! 

Thursday, November 17, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS

JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM

CROISSANTWORLD 
MA. LON\:t 
TIME SIN C.E \"JE £1.,tE.~ \c "l\-\£. 
Boo~S'togE. \ , \NOI'\DE~ '\1111-\A\~ UP lN 1\.iE. 1'\0T~E. DAME. (boo~ 
SE<..:Tlol't 

CROSSWORD 
1 One born near Old West bows
the Butt of Lewis 33 Sugar suffix 57 Baseball's Eddie, 1952

5 Dish eaten with 34 Darn All-Star for thea spark 
35 Swiss Alp Senators 9 Dark-skinned 
37 Helpful multiple-
fruit 
choice answer 
DOWN13 One-sixth of an 

41 Life instinct, to
inch 1 Fix, in a way

Freud 14 Lose power 2 Formally honor 42 Aves. 
3 Newspaperman15 Football Hall-of­43 Echevarrfa who 
Arthur played Santa Sulzberger Farner Ronnie 

16 Helpful multiple-Ana in 2004's 4 Car brake lightchoice answer 
"The Alamo" 

holder, once19 "llhink we 46 Prepare for a 
5 It's often flippedshould" wild ride 6 Sweetheart20 "Later" 
50 Helpful multiple­
7 Arbor leader

21 Important choice answer licensing org. ... or is it? 8 Diver's duds 22 Chums 52 'True!" 9 Least straightforward
23 Helpful multiple-53 Inventor, of a choice answer sort 10 Mentally 
sluggish30 Much of 54 Cheers 11 Roman emperorsuburbia 55 Opening for for just three31 Bit of butter peace talks months 

12 Accusatory

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
1"'!"1~+.=+::+.7:<~1!'11-:=+::+.::-f""!'!'-:+i:+.::-1 
-:-:+.=+=:+=-! 
..:..;.&..;;:;.L.;~ 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
''GI.I£<..Tio!'lP.!SlE E<.HocS­
S€NI\..E. E\.-OC-12-\..~ 
PeorLE RE.touNT 

'i2AI'-\~L.\Nl1 'STDg,\E..'S, 
~IDt:>LE.t::> \NITH 

(Jf!.AM HR\\ C..A L P..,N.t> SPB..LI~ E.12..!a.oP-.'::., ABoUT NoT~E. l:>Af..tE 
S"o~TINC::l E\IEI'\\S "'D-IA1 t-lt:\'1 O!a. f'.I.A'! Nt5f HA\IE 1-\t:\l'~cNE:f.::>. 
(.D «;!Of-.\ IN<..LUPE\)." 
words -=+=+:+:::-! 17 Divisions .,;,+-:+:+.::-t 18 Cold war enemy 
22 Muscle 23 Like-minded individuals 24 Creator of the Tammany Hall tiger 25 The America's Cup trophy, e.g. 26 They're guarded at the Olympics 
27 Boss of fashion 
28 Calif.-Fia. route 
WILLSHORTZ 


29 Like the Sahara 40 Fragrant 46 Writer of "Saint compounds Joan"
34 Kind of pie 35 Seconds 43 Computer menu 47 Word before 
option field or shirt 36 Printing on 
48 Name on manysome cigar 44 Whiskey prints

wrappers fermenter 38 Chicken 49 Diet of worms
45 Requester of 
locale?

39 Charlie's "As Time Goes Angels, e.g. By" 51 Draw 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester > 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City _____________ State ____ Zip_.;_______ 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ULIQT 
± 
Q2005 Tribune Media SeiVIces, Inc. All Rights ReseNed. 
YADDD 
[IJ j I I 
REJESY 
CURE S TUOENT 010 ON HER
rJ r I I 
FINAL.. EXAM. 
www.jumble.com 

tNURTHE t 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.
J [J J I 
Answer: rI I]"[ I I I I I]" IT (Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: NATAL SCOUR HAZING NICELY 
Yesterday's Answer: 
What the movie director ended up with when he tried fly-fishing-A "CASTING" CALL 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Trevor Penick, 26; Oksana Baiul, 28; Dwight Gooden, 41; Tammy Lauren, 37 
Happy Birthday: Although you may not be certain, it's best 10 make a decision and sec it through to the end this year. Not everyone will be as hard on you as you arc on yourself. Lighten up. As long as you do your best, no one can fault you. Your numbers are 10, 24, 27, 33, 39,46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): It doesn't hurt to ask questions or for advice. You can spare yourself a lot of anguish if you refrain from thinking you know it all. Don't let your emotions force you into making a poor decision. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Impulse buying will not pay off. Refrain from making a financial decision of any kind today. Concentrate more on yourself and you will end up putting things back in perspective. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't confuse liking someone with loving them. Take care of any health issues that arise. You can dn things that will increase the value of your home. Don't give away a secret that you've been told to keep. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will have a hard time dealing with the people you work with or for. Getting mixed messages will confuse you and cause some concern about your future. Take a moment to decide what you really want. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Open your doors to friends and family. You love to be the one who gathers everyone together, so make plans that will satisfy both young and old. You will be a star in your own circle. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may not know which way is up when it comes to emotional issues, but if you follow the lead that someone gives, it won't be hard to get miraculous results. Romance is looking hot as long as you stick to the physical aspect of the relationship. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct.. 22): You'll be hankering to get away even if it is just for the day. A shopping trip or a chance to visit an old friend will do you good and help you get your life back in perspective. Try your hand at something altogether different. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You have a chance to prove yourself today. A financial deal will help you increase your assets. Get involved in a new projccl, hobby or group. A change in your personal life may leave you feeling emotional and confused. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A unique opportunity to make alterations to your personal life or living arrangements may take you by surprise. Someone from your past will remind you why you have moved in the direction you've been headed. An emotional partner may look at things differently. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will only get back what you put out, so be careful how you handle others. Problems with relatives or neighbors may surprise you. Be careful not to promise something that will he impossible to finish. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): As long as you aren't unrealistic, you will impress everyone to the point that help will be offered and a team effort will unfold. Your leadership quality must not go to your head. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Taking on too much will be your demise. Be realistic and take a look at every angle before you decide to challenge someone you have a personal connection to. Don't overlook the details. ** 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, changeable and passionate ahout everything you do. Your open-mindedness and adaptahility will help you sec matters through to the end. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultation.•· 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
HOW THE MANI­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, November 17, 2005 
page 24 
HOCKEY 

Turning the Paige 
Assistant captain Jason Paige is a physical presence for Irish 
By KYLE CASSILY 
Sporrrs Writer 
Jason Paige sets an example on and off the ice -but most definitely leads first with his body on it. 
The physical forward was named Irish hockey assistant captain at the beginning of this season by Notre Dame head coach Jeff Jackson, and for good reason. 
"He's one of the guys that walks the talk," Jackson said. "He's probably one of the more vocal guys on the team, but for a guy to be vocal you better be able to back it up with how you play and how you work in prac­tice and work in the weight room, and he does that." 
It was in the weight room prior to the start of on-ice work­outs that Jackson first noticed the leadership skills present in Paige, and the first-year coach knew he had found a player with solid potential. This is Paige's second year as an assis­
see PAIGE/page 19 


NO CROSS COUNTRY 

Squad runs from memories of 2004 
Irish runners hoping to soon wash bad taste out of mouths 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
Kurt Benninger raced out to the front -no one was ahead of him. He was in first place at the NCAA Championship meet and the feeling was a thrill. Unfortunately, the moment was over almost before it began and Benninger fell behind more patient runners, finishing 42nd as the Notre Dame men's cross country team, ranked No. 5 heading into the meet, finished in a disappointing 11th place. 
That was 2004. A year later, Benninger and the Irish are ready to erase some of their bad memories at the 2005 NCAA Championships Monday in Terre Haute, Ind. 
Notre Dame again heads into the meet ranked No. 5 in the nation, fresh off a second-place finish in the Great Lakes Regional last Saturday. 

But while 2005 has so far been a success, the Irish know they have to do well Monday to remember this year fondly. 
"Last year was a huge disap­pointment, both individually and as a team," Benninger said. "Since the day after the race none of us wanted to be in that position again. We just know that this is the meet we have to do well and this is everything for our season. What we've done up until now doesn't mean any­thing." 
Notre Dame coach Joe Piane said the team has been using last year's race as motivation ever since. 
"As soon as they crossed the finish line last year they knew they had not run up to their potential and they have been determined to change that the last 12 months," Piane said. 
see MEMORY/page 21 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Three top 
•
seniors lead tea111 
By FRAN TOLAN 
Spom Writer 
On the surface, the 2005­06 Belles basketball team features three seniors in unfamiliar leadership roles. 
The squad lost four sen­iors from last year's team and saw the addition of a new coach this summer. What's more, two of the three seniors have never played in a regular-season game for the Belles. 
But that doesn't mean these seniors are poorly suited to be team leaders. 
Team captain Bridget Boyce, a second team All­MIAA selection last season, has played since she was a freshman and knows the ins and outs of the basket­ball program. 
Shelly Bender is new to Belles basketball but just completed her fourth sea-
see BELLES/page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Emotions to tug at squad Saturday 
Weis says team must stay focused on task at hand vs. Orange 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 

There's no doubt emotions will be running high on Saturday when Notre Dame's seniors play their last game at Notre Dame Stadium. But Irish coach Charlie Weis wants them to stay focused on the task at hand -Syracuse, a team that beat them 38-12 in the final game of 2003, a 5-7 season for the Irish. 
"I have a seven-minute tape that I'm going to show them about the 2003 game here at 2 
p.m. [today], and that will be a very humbling experience for them and a quick reminder that this game is really about playing Syracuse as much as it is about being respectful to the seniors," Weis said on Tuesday. "You've got to respect your opponent." 
Syracuse, which is 1-8 with its lone win coming over Buffalo, is a team that has struggled all 

season. But the Irish cannot overlook the Orange if they want to keep a BCS bowl in sight. 
That's where Weis comes into play. 
"The biggest thing keeping us focused is Coach," Irish wide receiver Matt Shelton said. "He's obviously done a good job with the first season and the second season [Weis split the season in half for his team], and I think he's just going to keep doing it." 
And Weis won't go easy on his team as to avoid a letdown in the final stretch of the season that concludes next weekend in Palo Alto, Calif. with Stanford. 
"You never can let up on the players," Weis said. "It doesn't make a difference what level 
see SENIORS/page 22 


NFLMLB 
NCAA FOOTBAll 

NFL 

Irish Insider y

Philadelphia EaglesHidel<i Matsui met Penn State looks to 
The Indianapolis with reporters in New 
quarterback Donovan secure its first Big Ten 
Colts hope to shut York Wednesday after 
McNabb will miss title since 1994 Saturday 
down Bengals receiver signing a four-year con­
Notre Dame kicks off the Big East tract with the Yankees. 
Sunday's game against 
with a win against Chad Johnson this 

the Giants. 
Michigan State. 
Sunday. 
Volleyball Tournament this weekend in Louisville.
page 18 page 17 page 17 page 17 




