-

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 39 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14,2005 
Campus electric.as gameday nears 
Notre Dame community furious with excitement, hopeful to see Irish shock USC Saturday 
By KATIE PERRY AssiMant News Fditor 
If you could find a way to lwttln tho hypo and hoopla of tlw nvnnts surrounding this wnnkiHJd's homo football ganw, you could light up tho univnrsn-and tlwn some. 
Tho zoal has bonn 
See Also
unavoidable. 
"USC is first
Fr o 111 tlu~ 
flit!rs t.hat game of unusual don nnarly 
home stretch" 
.-very ram­pus doorway page3 to tho mug shots of USC quarLPrhal'k Matt Leinart that linP rampus walkways. from th1• "Trojans Bn!ak" T-shirts to t.IH• prnmaturPiy-situatnd I·:Sl'N CoiiPgl' CamPday_stagl!, nothing has IH'I'n as IWrva­sivn on campus this wonk as football. 
And although it was not tho Irish hut tlH• <;rPPk who ulti­matnly l'aUsPd thP fall of Troy, studnnls arn primnd and rPady to l'iiP into Notrn l>am1• Stadium --tlwir surro­
sec EI.ECTRIC/pagc 4 
Above, College Gameday sets up in front of Touchdown Jesus. At left, a spirited flier marks a South Quad liglzt post.
• 
PHOTOS BY TIM SULLIVAN AND GEOFF MATTESON 
BOT assesses relationship w-ith South Bend 
Trustees discuss NO COilllllllllity service 
By MADDIE IlANNA 
A""ciatc New., hliwr 
Tht• prPSI'ntation givPn Monday hy studPnl govnrn­IIH'nt and thP CPntPr for Sol'ial Corll'l'rns' (CSC) VOICH rom­Ill iII.PP to tlw Board of Trustnl's drPw applausn and tl'iggnrnd dialogu.-on how to community. 
im provP  thn  rt•lationsh i p  
h.-twnPn  NotrP  DamP  and  
Ill p mlw r s  0 r tIll' s0 ut h B n II d  

Tlw prnsPntation. which was givPn by studnnt body prnsi­dPnt Davn Baron, studnnt body virP prt~sidont Lizzi ShappPll, rhinf nxPrutivn assistant Liz Kozlow and VOICI•: eommittnn mnmlll'rs Pntnr KralovPI~ and Katn Distlnr, analyznd thn dynamic bntwnnn Notn~ Damn studnnts and South Bnnd com­munity mnmbnrs, highlighting rncnnt changes in the relation­ship and tlw roln of communi­ty snrvicn in promoting a lwalthy rPiationship. 
It was this last snction that provoknd the most rnsponsc 


Students anticipate a week free of classes 
By NICOLE ZOOK 
A,,,i.lt;uu Nt·ws Editor 
Whiln studnnts at schools al'ound tlw nation an~ hitting thn hooks and attnrHiing.class­Ps rwxt wnnk. Notrc~ Damn and Saint Mary's studnnls will havn only o1w thing on tlwir minds-lm~ak. 
Thl' mid-snmnstnr hrnak !'rom rlassns bngins Monday and lasts through Friday, lnaving studnnts with morn 

than a wnnk of frne timn. Whiln spring break is usually seen as tlw best lime !'or trav­ol among colloge students, many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's studnnts. like Saint Mary's junior Brittany LHn, say tlwy will be hitting tlw road ovnr fall brnak. 
''I'm spnnding tho week with my hoyf'rimHI, and lw gons to Cnntral Michigan University," Len said. "lie's not on broak." 
see BREAK/page I 0 from trustnns. who pressnd VOICE rnnmbnrs for details about s n r vi 1: n coo rdin atn d through thn esc and studnnt part.ici pation. 
"IBdorn dncidingl to contin­un l'(!SOUrCP l~ommitmnnt, i[' not nnhancn it. wn should know what that rnsourcn eom­rnitmnnt is," onn trustnn said, aftnr Kravolnr. said hn did not havn spneific information on thn CSC's budget. The Obsnrvor has a policy of not attributing information or quotl~S to specific members of tht! Board. 
But trustocs wore rceeptivn to Kravolnc and Distlnr's prns­entation on thn nnnd to fur­thnr promotn eommunily­basod lnarning and cPnwnt a partnnrship with tlw commu­nity. 

"I think tlw key was whnn you said partnership," onn trustnn said. "I think wn nnnd to lot the community partnnr­ship lnad us to giving what thny nond." 
In prnsenting tho survoy rnsults on thP rn~quoncy and location or student-community interactions, Shapptdl men-
see BOT/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Student proposes tax plan 
Mendoza innovator aims for Katrina aid 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
A'sociarc News Editor 
I.i k n many i\ mI' r i ~~a 11 s afTnctnd by tlw traumatic h u rricanns that dnvastatnd the south in August and SPptPmbnr, graduatn stu­dnnt Dan Knlly wantnd to lwlp. 
II is solution. howt•vPr. was not to donatn largn sums of m o 1wy o,. r o11 nrt food and clothing. but to crnatn a nnw tax plan. 
"This idna could potPn­tially bneomn a tax law for tlw Yl~ars 2005 and 200(J. It still has a long way to go but it. is gn1wrating sp1•Pd and PncouragPmPnt." Knlly said. 
Knlly. who is PnrollPd in a Tax H0snarrh graduatn courst• offerPd in t.lw M.S. in i\ceount.ancy program. has crnatnd a proposal that would givn PVnryonP who donatns monny to IHtrri1:anP victims a fil:dul'­l.ion. 
"i\ t t i m ~~ s I i k n this iI is vnry important to stop thinking about tlw bottom linP and start thinking with our hearts," KPIIy said. "ThnsP pnoplt' IWPd our lw I p and it is our rnsponsibility to stPp up and do whatnvnr it is that wn ran to lwlp." 
Und1•r tlw rurrnnl tax systnm. Knlly said all tax­paynrs arn allowPd lo itnmizn tlwir dnductions­which includn somn ml•d­ical nxpnnsns, statn and local t.axns, r.haritabln con­trib uti on s and otlw r 111 is­cnllannous itnms. 
sec TAX/page 6 

'Passion' actor speaks at Grotto 
By SARAH WHEATON 
News Writer 

Studonts filled tho Grotto area and spilled into the adjoining sidewalks Thursday to hear Jim Caviezol, star of "Tlw Passion of the Christ," say the rosary and speak about his faith. 
Wnaring a Notre Dame loiter­man jaeket, Caviezel said he wantod to come to Notre Damn after he heard about Charlie Weis granting Montana Mazurkiowiez's dying wish to 

Jim Caviezel sports a Notre Dame letterman jacket while speak­
see PASSION/page I 0 ing to students about Catholic faith at the Grotto Thursday. 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, October 14, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Nick and Jessica Matt 
Sa111 

Some of you may have read the recent article in Sports Illustrated On Campus portraying the timely­and rather cozy -relationship that Matt Leinart has with Nick Lachey. This is absolute bologna. I am Sam Pandolfo way closer to Nick Lachey than 
Advertising
Matt Leinart will 

Executive
ever be. 

Let me recall a phone conversation I had with Nick prior to the break up: 
(Phone rings. Ringtone is "Rolla Back Girl" by Gwen Stefani.) 
Sam: What's up Nick!?!?! 

Nick: Sam. I'm so glad you picked up. We need to talk. 
(You can already tell that we are way tighter than him and Matt Leinart. I'll c0ntinue... ) 
Sam: What's up? Nick: I think Jessica is gonna dump me. Sam: (Hoping with all of my soul he's serious) No way!!! Nick: Yeah. I don't know what I'm going to do. 
Sam: Nick, just breathe, remem­ber like the time you thought you spilled a mocha Frapuccino on your new white pants but it was only a bad dream? 
Nick: Hight. I just really need to get away from all this. Can I come out to ND and play some LAX with you, bro? 
Sam: l don't know man, its midterm week here. Can't you call Matt Leinart or something? He's not doing anything productive these days. 
Nick: To tell you the truth, I only went to USC to try to meet rich girls. Then I met Jess and ... But now, I'm gonna be broke if Jessica dumps me. I had to book some lame interview with Matt Leinart just to pay my water bill! 
Sam: Fine. We can play some LAX, but only if you catch. 
So you can see, in Nick's greatest time of need, he turned to me to comfort him. I'm not particularly proud of this fact, but even Matt Leinart has to recognize that I am way more important to Nick than he will ever be. 
So Matt, if by some off chance you get a copy of this paper and read my column, I want you to know that you will always be second place in the heart of Nick Lachey -and I mean it. 
He will never call you on your birthdays and holidays just to say he was thinking of you. You will never get surprise packages full of chocolates and DVDs from the Lifetime Classics Collection. And no matter what happens, you will never ever get to sword fight with pool noodles on long weekends. 
One last thing, Matt, Nick called me last night and said one thing: GO IRISH! BEAT TROJANS! 
Contact Sam Pandolfo at 
spandoljo@nd. edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DOING FOR FALL BREAK? 



Andrew Gim Jackie Sias Joseph Garlock 
freshman sophomore senior 
Siegfried Holy Cross off-campus 
"Bragging to 'Tm going to "Graduating. " my friends in Chicago for part Southern offall break." California." 

TIM SULLIVAN!The Observer 
Students flock to "Passion of the Christ" star Jim Caviezel at the Grotto Thursday. The actor spoke about his experience on the film set and the Catholic faith and as it pertains to Notre Dame students. The event was sponsored by the Right to Ufe club, Student Government, Children of Mary, Knights of Immaculata and the Orestes Brownson Council. 
OFFBEAT 

leading up to Saturday's Ironman World Championship. 
"It's pretty much 'the' event now," joked founder and former professional triathlete Paul Huddle. "People fly in Wednesday night just for this." 
Not all triathletes would agree. More than 1,800 competitors from 80 coun­tries are in Kona for the grueling Ironman, a 2.4­mile ocean swim, 112-mile bike leg through the lava fields and a full 26.2-mile marathon run. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Man coughs up screw after operation 
BRUSSELS -Four years ago, Etienne Verhees broke two vertebrae falling off a ladder, after which doctors put a metal plate in his neck to help heal the wound. 
This week, the Belgian coughed up one of four screws used to hold the plate in place. 
"I have had a cold for the past few days," Verhees told daily Gazet Van Antwerpen. "I had a terrible cough a few days ago. That's when I sud­denly felt something in my mouth. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
IX 
1.&.1 



:::J: 
!< 
1.&.1 
3: 
...I 


halfway home to Mexico!" 

"It turned out to be a screw." 
One of the doctors involved told the paper he assumed the screw had moved because of an infection Verhees suffered following a second opera­tion, which caused his neck to swell 
Nearly 100 runners turn out for underpants run 
AILUA-KONA, Hawaii ­Some 100 runners wear­ing nothing but their skivvies turned out Thursday for the Underpants Run, a fun run that has become an annual event in the days 

Juan Muldoon  Kevin J. Kelly  Nora Holden-Crobett  
freshman  freshman  freshman  
Siegfried  Siegfried  Le Mans  
"Meeting my  "Recuperating  "Going home  
parents in  from the USC  after the USC  
Texas- weekend."  game to play  

~ 
cc 
(,) 


.... 0 HIGH 72 HIGH 56 HIGH 65 HIGH 65 LOW 53 LOW 48 LOW 50 LOW 50 

,
with my dog. 
IN BRIEF 

Weather permitting, the foot­ball pep rally will be held at Notre Dame Stadium today. Doors open at 5 p.m., and the rally begins with student cheers at 6 p.m. Students are asked to enter through Gate E. The rain location for this event is the Joyce Center. 
As a tradition of football week­ends, today at 4:30 p.m., Notre Dame;s marching band will march out from the front of the Main Building heading through campus to its practice in the Joyce Center Parking Lot. 
Notre Dame's student yearbook "The Dome" celebrates its 1OOth anniversary this year and historic copies will be on display before all home football games this fall in the Dooley room of LaFortune from 10 a.m. until noon. 
Composer and conductor Marvin Hamlisch will perform at the Leighton Concert Hall on tonight at 9:00 p.m. Tickets for this show are $15 for all stu­dents. 
Archbishop J. Michael Miller, secretary of the Vatican's Congregation for Catholic Education, will present the 2005 Terrence Keeley Vatican Lecture at 8 p.m. Oct. 31 in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. 
George O'Meara, associate director of the University of Florida's Florida Medical Entomology Laboratory, will present lectures on Oct. 25 and 26 as part of the George B. Craig Jr. Memorial Lecture Series. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 72 HIGH 67 LOW 53 LOW 40 
Atlanta 71 I 48 Boston 60 I 57 Chicago 72 I 52 Denver 74 I 42 Houston 88 I 63 Los Angeles 88 I 60 Minneapolis 70 I 46 New York 66 I 58 Philadelphia 70 I 58 Phoenix 94 I 71 Seattle 64 I 50 St. Louis 81 I 56 Tampa 88 I 72 Washington 74 I 57 
hiday, October 14, 200S 
The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS page .1 
------~~~====~~====~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

USC is first gatne of unusual hotne stretch 
Hy ALICIA CONLEY 
Nl'ws Writer 
Bnginning this Saturday, the Notro Dame football team will mnbark on a ram fivn-garne home stand over six sueet~ssive week­tmds. 
This wenknnd's USC game and rwxt wnekend's BYU game will be li1llowed by a bye wnek, but start­ing Nov. 5 the last three home ganws will be playnd on three consm:utive Saturdays. This dus­ten~d sdwdule is unusual for Notrn Damn, as last year the most home gamns playml in a row ww; tlm•e. 
Snnior Corinne Gabriel said this tlw first tinw thnrn have bnen so many gamns in a row since she arrivnd as a freshman in 2002. 
"It sPnms rl'ally latn to only be on flu• sncoml honw ganw." she said. 
Most studt~nts showl'd exdtn­1111'nt about tlw strl'ak and eager­nPss t.o lwgin tlw honw snason. having attPm!Pd only onP ganw in Not.rP llaml' Stadium this ynar. 
"It'll lw good to gnt tlw s1mson slarh•d lwrausP !'ampus hm; bonn prdty quid," Cabrid said. "I think it 'II bP rl'ally fun." 
Although many studl'nt.s an~ anxious to gPt tlw homP stmson undl'rway, sonw worn concnrnnd till' honw streak might lw too busy and t.irPSOJllf'. 
''I'm going to put. oil' my work to go to l.lw ganws and I'm not going to gnl stull' done," fn~shman Kat I lake said. "Then I'll havn to use slnep time to make it up." 
Freshman Doug Sehuda said although he is already tired now, he will "run on adrenaline" eome kick oil' Saturday. 
"I think it'll be omotionally draining but I don't think physical­ly it will be," freshman Gmg Barr said. 
Though it will be tough, some studenl<> would have the schedule no other way. Many students, like Sehuda, said they don't eare what the schedule is like -all they worn mneemed about is the eom­pntition. 
"I think it's fine," Sehuda said. ''I'm sure ~-,rrades will go down a bit, but it's Notre Dame football." 
Freshman Meghan Keefe nchoed Sehuda's sentiments. "I don't earn," she said. "It's J(Jotball." 
Gabriel said tho strc~ak gives studnnts tho opportunity to host parl'nl<> and frinnds li1r tho wnnk­nnd. 
"I havn somoonn coming for every weekend in Novmnbnr," she said. "It would have bnnn nice to haw my visitors spread out a little morn but thn company is always nnjoyPd." 
Barr said both his parnnl<> plan 
t.o attPnd tlw Navy game. 
"It.'s a big deal bncausn they've rwver bmm to a Notre Dame gamn bel(m\" Barr said. 
Contact Alicia Conley at aconleyl@nd.edu 

Belles to embark on Catalyst Trip 
14 from SMC will spend fall break at Grailville retreat center 
By MEGAN OSBERGER 
Nt'ws Writer 
As most students look for­ward to a week of rolaxation, others are preparing to see women leaders at work in the community and to learn how to work for change during the upeoming fall break. 
The fourth annual Catalyst Trip sponsored by Saint Mary's Center for Women's Intercultural Learning (CWIL) will leave Saturday with a goal to enrich and enlighten its 14 participants. 
Director of Community Connection Bonnie Bazata had the original idea for the week­long program. 
"The week is designed to ere­ate breakthroughs in how we see ourselvns," she said. "It is an intellectual, relational, emo­tional and spiritual process that engages our whole selves. We learn from each other, from the history and people of the places wn visit. -and we eonw back with new eyes and a stronger commitment to take on com­plex problems like racism." 
In tho last three years the trip has bneonw more l'ocusnd. 
"H was IBazataJ's idna to look at women as social change ag1~nts," CWIL Study Abroad Advisor Sarah DeMott said. "Now it has transl'ornwd into looking at white privilngn and racism." 
CWIL opnrwd tlw trip to :w staff. studnnt and community 

women. The program is fmn for students. llistorieally thnrn have been more community women participants than stu­dents. but in the last two years the proportion has been half and half. 
"We try to split it equally between community women and studenl<>," coordinator Lcty Verduzco said. "Last year it was my job to get more students involved." 
The trip centers on work­shops, diversity training and aetual eommunity involvement. 
"People think that it is a serv­iee learning trip, but it's not," Verduzeo said. "After we go into the community we just try to proeess everything. We dis­euss, and think how they ean help in their own communi­ties." 
Tho trip's aetivitios have changed with its focus. 
"We always stay at Grailvilln, but last year we were in Tennessee at the llighlandnr H£~sean:h and Education Center part of tlw time," Verduzco said. "Now wn'll be staying in Cincinnati thn wholn time." 
Grailvillt~ is a rntrnat. l'.entm startml by lay Catholic wonwn 70 ynars ago to support womPn transforming thn world. 
In Cincinnati participants will be mnnting women from tlw community at thn l'naslen Neighborhood Centnr and thn National Underground Bailroad Frnndom Cnntnr downtown. 
"I am most looking forward to the Undnrground Bailroad 

Frnmlom C1mtnr," said l>irndor of lntnrcultural Living Tracy Hobison, who has bnnn on the trip every year it has been ol'f'ernd. "I think it's a good opportunity to sN~ intnrgnnera­tional people intoract together." 
Senior Jacque Werling, who partieipatnd last year, agreed. 
"It was the first time I intnr­aetnd with such a diverse com­munity," she said. "People of different religions, raens and ages all came together to listnn to eaeh other's stories." 
With a focus on raeism, privi­lege and poverty, students and staff hope to grasp a now understanding of raeism. 
"It is so important to undnr­stand radsm from other raens' perspectives," Werling said. "Most poopIn say they arnn 't raeist, but you ean bn without knowing. Tho trip rnally was a good catalyst. for changing your own perspective, and you havl' to do that hnforn you ran changn tlw world. or IWf'n your own community." 
[)pMott said it is important for whitl' wonwn to examirw tlwir JWrspndivn and responsi­bility toward rar.ism. 
"It's l'undanwntal to havP a COr!' rPalization of' racism in Anwrira. to undPrstand tiH• wholn powl'r systl'm of how oppression happPns," slw said. 
"Otlwrwise,  you  an~  going  
about c.hange in  a  very ba!'k­ 
ward way."  

Contact Megan Osbcrger at mosberO 1 @saintmarys.cdu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 14, 2005 
Electric 
continued from page 1 
gate wooden horse -twice this weeknnd in hopes of defeating the USC Trojans and ending an epic 27-game USC winning streak. 
At 6 p.m. today, Notre Dame will hold its first pep rally in the stadium sineP tlw Irish's 2000 match-up against No. 1­

GEOFF MATIESON!The Observer A sheet sign hangs on the side of O'Neill Hall Thursday. Students have been showing spirit all week in anticipation of Saturday's football game against the University of Southern California. 
ranked Ne-bras­ka. Coach Char­lie Wnis and other ath lctic of'fieials decided to relocate the event to a larger ven uc after thousands of fans were turned away from the Joyce Center at the Michigan State pep rally. 
The pep rally -which· will be the fourth ever held in the stadi­um -induced a circus of hearsay earlier this week regarding rumored special 
"We always get excited when we play high ranked teams thinking that something 'might happen,' or that 'we could beat them,' but this is a game [where] the team is prepared for an enemy that everyone wants to see toppled." 
Louie Cavadini junior 
events and appearances. Although reports have not been con11rmed nor made offi­cial, students are buzzing with talk of Bruce Springsteen, Bon Jovi and John Mellencamp performing at the event. 
"I think it's cool that John Mellencamp !might] be com­ing," freshman James Dubray 
said.  "I  think  there's  a  
chance.  I've  also  heard  
through  some  friend  of  a  

friend who works here that Bon Jovi is coming too." 
Earlier statements made by Weis only fueled lofty projec­tions. 
"I know one thing, I am not going to emcee this one because I am 0-1 when I have emceed," he said in an Oct. 11 Chicago Tribune article. "I have a plan for this one as you would expect I would." 
Alumni Association Director Chuck Lennon said Thursday that he could not comment on the rumors. 
"We were trying to keep it a surprise," he said. 
But even if The Boss doesn't help celebrate Notre Dame's return to glory with "Glory Days" and Bon Jovi doesn't join the marching band for a heavenly rendition of "Livin' On A Prayer," students like senior Matt f.antazier said they would be excited nonetheless. 
''I'm looking forward to the pep rally being in the stadi­um," he said. ''I'm curious as to what they pull out for it, being such a rare occasion, I'm hopeful that it'll be one to remember." 
Zach Fitter, a junior abroad in London this semester, won't be able to attend the pep rally but said he shares in the eagerness of Domers lucky enough to be in South Bend. 
"The idea of having the pep rally in the stadium seems like a great one to me," he said. "I'd much rather it be there, where the game will take place the next day, than inside the IJACC]." 
Other students, like junior Louie Cavadini, expressed ambivalence for the venue change. 
"[I am looking forward to it] because it is so rare, but [I'm also not] because at the last pep rally there was so much energy in the atmosphere and I think a little of that could be 
lost taking it outdoors to a bigger place," he said. 
Despite the commotion of pep rally rumors and antici­pation, students have not lost sight of the significance of Saturday's game. 
Cavadini said the anxious­ness for the game is in "a league of its own." 
"We always get exeitP.d w lw n we pi ay high ran ked teams thinking that somPlhing 'might happen,' or that 'wi1 
he said. 
could beat them,' but this is a game [where I the team is pre­pared for an enemy that everyone wants to see toppled," he said. 
Fitter said he hasn't been this excited for a Notre Dame football game since the first one he ever attended when the 8-0 Irish fell to Boston College in 2002. 
"This is a com­pletely different team so I expect better results," 

Fantazier also recalled the Boston College game of three seasons ago and said it was a "pretty exciting time" but still did not match the hype of this weekend's game. 
"It wasn't the same [as this game] because it wasn't seen as a game that was going to be a battle,'' Fantazier said. "This game means a lot, espe­cially for the seniors who have never seen NO beat USC, and we have a real shot this time around." 
Fitter -who plans to watch the game from a 
mistic. 

"It seems more like Notre Dame football ... There's de11­nitely an optimism," he said. "I think that contributes to the spirit of the school. I think if we play well and not like we have the past three years, the game will definitely live up to the hype." 
In a Thursday San Jose Mercury News artiele, writer Mike Kern said he had no doubt the atmosphere at the game would be "insanity squared." Cavadini said stu­dents are especially knyed up. 
"We cannot wait for this game to begin," he said. "Everyone is anticipating it as it [also] coincides with the end of midterms ... The stadi­um will be out of control on Saturday." 
Between the observable campus decoration and a scramble for body paint, rib­bons and other kickoff neces­sities, students arc holding nothing back when it comes to demonstrating Irish spirit this weekend. 
"We were going to sleep outside of Gameday," Dubray said. ''I've heard a lot of peo­ple with that idea. Some friends and I were [also] plan­ning on heckling Matt Leinart when the USC bus arrives on campus." 
Cavadini promised his sec­tion of the stadium would be the loudest. 
"My group of friends and I wear pink shirts to all of the games -it's basically the rowdiest section in the place," he said. 
Fantazier said the eclectic fanfare is almost a norm for Notre Dame students. 
"The only crazy things I've heard of are people going 
home early for 
break," he said. 
"The fans are 
excited, and have 
London sports "/ think people are a lot to cheer for. bar -said he We'll be there to
cautiously
"likelsl the Irish's support the team
optimistic. " 
chances." as always, hope­
"I think people fully with a little are cautiously Zach Fitter extra on top of it optimistic," he all."
junior
said. "Irish fans The added haven't been excitement to the rewarded in the already high last few years for enthusiasm for their optimism, but I think football can be traced to a coach Weis and the players number of factors, students will be as ready as possible said. for the game." ''I'd say a combination of a 
f.reshman James Dubray popular new coach, a success­said many students are opti-ful season thus far, a top 10 ranking and the chance to end the 27-game winning streak of our greatest rival is what makes this coming weekend so monumental in the eyes of Irish fans," Fitter said. 

Many students, like Fantazier, said the success of this year's team thus far is responsible for the hype. 
"If we didn't look as good as we do, then the expectations would be more of wishful thinking rather than truly thinking we can beat them," he said. 
And students are in fact 
predicting an Irish victory. 

"USC is not unbeatable, just undefeated, and if anyone can find a way to knock off the top ranked Trojans, it will be this Notre Dame team," Fitter said. 
Cavadini said eager Irish fans have a game plan of their own. 
"We just have to carry the energy throughout the entire game, as USC is known for comebacks in the fourth quar­ter," he said. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
hiday, October 14, 2005 CoMPILED FR0,\1 THE 0BSERVEirs WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Chechen rebels attack Caucasus city 
N!\I.CIIIK, Hussia-Militants attarknd policn and gowrnnwnt buildings in Hussia's volatiln Caucasus rPgion Thursday, taking lwstagns and turning a provincial ~~apital into a war zonn wrarknd by gunlirn and nxplo­sions that IPI't at lnasl X5 pnopln dnad, mostly insurw•nts. 
<:hnrlwn rPhnls rlainwd rnsponsibility l'or tlw oll'nnsiw in Nalrhik. thn capital ol' thn mostly Muslim n•puhlir ol' Kabardino-Balkariya, as a lli'W front opPrwd in t.lw Krnmlin's dncadn-old battiP against lslamir insurgPnts. 
Tlu• rPhPis' struggiP against Hussia. original­ly a snparal.ist mov!•nu•nl. inernasingly has nwldPd with Islamic nxtrnmism in tlw past dn!·adn and l'annnd out lwyond Chnchnya's hordPrs to PrH·ompass tlw Pntire Caucusus rPgion. 
Helicopters needed for quake relief 
UNITI·:Il N!\TIONS -lklinf ITnws nnml lwli­roptnrs and (~ash nHn·n than anything elsn to hP!p thl' nstimatnd 4 million pnopln am~etnd by thn narthquakP in tlw disputNl Kashmir n~gion. a U.N. oflkial said Thursday. 
WhiiP nxarl. mrmbPrs anm't dnar, it's bnlinvnd tlww an~ ahout 50 lwlicoptnrs fim·ying fi>od and suppliPs to tlw nnNiinst victims of' the quakn, but IIH' pfl(ll"t rwnds about thrm~ limns that numbnr, said llansjoPrg Strohmnynr, a snnior U.N. humanitarian nnvoy. 
"Wn rwnd a nH~jor stopping up ol' air assnts in a dramatir snnsn," Strohnwynr said. "Wn nom! llwsn who can providn liw or 10 hnlicoptnrs at a tinw ratlwr than thosn who can bring in onn IH·n~ and orw tlwrn." 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Man cannot sue Manhattan hospital 
Nt·:w YOHK -!\ dividml statn appnals court ruiiHI Thursday that a man cannot sue a Manhattan hospital li>r malpraeticfl in the death ol' his longtinw partrwr. saying it could not pro­vide tacit approval ol' same-sex marriages. 
Tlw court overturned a judge's 2003 dndsion that .John Langan, ol' Vermont. could sue St. Vincent's llospital fi1r allngml malpractiee in the death of Neil C. Spieehandler. 
Tho appeals eourt, in a ]-2 vote, doddnd that Langan had no standing to sue the hospital dospite the couple's 2000 dvil union in Vermont. 1\Ltorrwys for Langan rlaimed thn civil union gavn him standing <L'i a spouse to sue the hospi­tal undl~r Nnw York law. 

DeLay's phone records subpoenaed 
1\USTIN -!\ Toxas prosecutor on Thursday su hpoPnaod tlw phonn rocords fi>r fimner llousn M;~jority Leader Torn DnLay's home and cam­paign during llw pnriod he is aeeusod of conspir­ing to launder illngal corporate donations to can­
didatt~s. 
1\lso suhpoPrHtnd by prosecutor Honnie Harle WPre rocords l'or two phone numbers for !Jel.ay's daughtPr, llaniPIIe llnl.ay Fnrro, and fi>r a minivan that l·:ariP alleged DeLay bought. 
I lPI.ay is litring rhargPs of money laumh~ring and ronspiracy in a TPxas rampaign !inane!~ rasP. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Dad accused of shooting appears 
David W. Brown. tlw l'atlwr arcusNI of shoot­
ing his son and daughter SPpL I1), appeared 
today in Marion SupPrior Court for an initial 
)waring on dmrgPs of murder and altPmptml 
murdPr. 
Brown. 44, surviwd stab wounds apparently solf-inflirtPd aftPr tlw shootings and was n~IPasPd !'rom tlw hospital. I lis pretrial !waring in Marion SupNior Court .ludgn Hobert !\lti1:n . Jr.'s courtroom has bmm set l'or Dne. 2X and a jury trial has hl'l'n sdwduled fi>r .Jan. 9. 
IRAQ 



Iraqi city braces for critical vote 
American forces wage public campaign to draw marginalized voters to political scene 
Associated Press 
11!\DITII!\ U.S. Marinos handed out thou­sands of' llinrs and copies of Iraq's nnw (".onstitution Thursday. urging pl'ople to votl' in this Sunni 1\rab town that only a wenk ago was thn targd of U.S. airstrikns. 
But with the r.rueial rof"­orendum on thn ehartnr just two days away, many rnsidnnts still did not know where to east bal­lots. !\cross Iraq's insur­gon t lwartl and -the overwhelmingly Sunni 1\rab province ol' 1\nbar -l'nars ol' attacks havn limited plans to only a handful of heavily forti­find polling stations. 
I~ v n n tlw n . the s i t e s wn re s ti II u rwn no u rH:nd Thursday for security r n aso n s , of'('j ei a Is s a i d , and a han on vnhieln traf­f'ic will !'oren many resi­dn n t s to wa I k rn i ~~~ s to voto. 
1\nd 1\moriean forces worn not tlw only onns waging a public cam­paign: Insurgents had dis­tributed f'linrs of their own before thn U.S.-Ied ofTnnsivn. Iraqi soldiers said. threatening that anyone who votes will be beheaded. 

!\II these factors eould dnpress turnout in a region kny to whether the those fighting the govern­pectp,d thn vntn was sider voting in llw coming constitution is aeenpted mflnt and its U.S. baek­rigged. days. or rejected. nrs. "There are many forees On Oct. 4, Marines 
Tho U.S. military hopes And whether the final in Iraq and lladitha that sw1~pt into the Euphrates Sunni participation will result on tlw constitution prevent my voiee from Hiver town of lladitha draw those who fnnl mar­is "yes" or "no," Sunnis being hflard." hn said. and two neighboring ginalized into the political hnre may feel morn alien­"This constitution was not towns -Parwana and process and nrode sup­ated than ever if they did­made under fair condi­llaqlaniyah -in an port for the insurgnney. n't feel they wnre able to tions. you know." ofl"ensive dubbed Hivnr 
It may not work that votfl. "There is no govern­(;ate to !'oren out insur­way in 1\nbar, a province Onfl lladitha resident. ment in lladitha. Only the gents and install a long­of 1.:~ million people. an engineer with four government of tho f"igh t­term Iraqi security pres­!\!most the entire popula­children who previously ers," hn added. asking ence. Thn operation start­tion is Sunni 1\rab, the served in the Iraqi air that his namn not be used ed with a major air bar­minority that held power forec, stood aside as because or fear of insur­rage and f"ivn Americans under Saddam llussnin. Marines searched his gent reprisal. killed by roadsidt~ bombs Many Sunnis believe thfl home for illegal weapons. Other Marinos hoard and f'ighting. Tlwn. troops constitution will only lie did not even know similar reluctance !'rom moved into thn towns to solidify thn domination of' when the referendum was residnnts as they handed find little insurgent majority Shiites and the bning hflld, but added out fliers about thn rnf"er­rnsistanee, with most Kurds -a sentiment that that he wouldn't vote endum, though some peo­f'ightnrs hiding or having could drive some to join anyway beeause he sus-ple said they would con-flnd. 

Bush talks via video to U.S. troops 
Associated Press 
W!\SIIIN<;T<JN -Pn~sident Bush sought to rally U.S. troops in Iraq alwad of Saturday's vote on now constitution on Thursday. saying the "1~rwmy understands that a frne Iraq would lw a blow to tlwir vision." 
"We put in motion sonwthing that can't hn stopped, and that is tho march of l'rnodom." Bush said in a video eonfnronen with soldinrs !'rom thn 1\rmy's 42nd Infantry Division, 
basnd  in  Tikrit,  homntown  of  
dnposnd  Iraqi  loader  Saddarn  
llussnin .  

Bush spoke two days bnf'ore Iraqis vote on a nnw constitution. !\ emn­

promise nndorsmf on Wednesday hy the Iraqi parlianwnt made key eon­cessions to minority Sunni 1\rabs. increasing the chances that Uw doc­unwnt will bn approvnd. Passage of' Uw constitution would open llw way to national nlections in J>ncnm lwr. 
"We're nnvnr going to back down. we're nnvnr going to give in. we'll nevnr accept anything less than total victory." Bush said. "Thank you for all your work. When you baek to the United States, if I'm hanging around, comn by and say hello." 
Tho president engaged in a ques­tion and answer sessions with 10 servieem1m and women, who he saw on a large video screen snt up in a room of llw EisPnhowPr Executive OfTice Building next to llw WhitP Ilouse. 
"Do tlw Iraqis want to fight. and an~ l.lwy capable ol' righting?" lw asked. IIn was told tlwy WPn•. 
1\nd whiiP polls show dPdining support l'or tlw war. Bush told llw soldinrs: "You·v~~ got trPnwrHious supporl" among 1\nwricans. ·· 
"Wn Iwnd to stay on l.lw oiTPnsP, and W!~ ruwd to stay on tlw of'f'nnS!' with wPII-trairwd Iraqi forces," tlw president said. 
"You'vn got to know, thn 1\morican peopln arn standing strong with you," Bush said. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 14, 2005 
BOT 
continued from page 1 
tioned that some community members thought Notre Dame students had "elitist" or "holier-than-thou" atti­tudes when performing com­munity service. 
"There is a concern among community members that Notre Dame students are not integrating themselves with the purest of hearts," Shappell said in regards to the perception that some students participate in com­munity service solely as a resume-building activity. 
Trustees asked Kravolec if there was any way to deter­mine the proportion of stu­dents who do community service solely for resume­building purposes. Kravolec, who previously cited the sta­tistic that 85 percent of Notre Dame students partici­pate in community service, said it would be difficult to gauge, since motives are not tracked. 
Several trustees stressed the importance of encourag­ing students to participate in long-term, rather than one­time-only service activities. 
'']'d like to call that tran­sient community service TCS," one trustee joked. "Let's start tracking TCS ver­sus CCS [continuous commu­nity service]." 
The trustee acknowledged that only a certain degree of continuity could be achieved, since students graduate and move on after four years. 
"The reality we have is there's a rotation of students here who do community service, and leave," the trustee said. "The bias in the community would !naturally] be, 'Here's the latest rotation from Notre Dame here to fill their resumes."' 
In order to protect the already established relation­ships, the trustee said, the next generation of students must pick up where the pre­vious left off. 
This emphasis on commu­nity-building through service by Notre Dame students was the primary way trustees proposed to alleviate town­gown tensions. 
"I get the feeling that South Bend is a great labo­ratory for Notre Dame, but how much are the students bringing back to Notre Dame and saying, 'This is a great community?"' one trustee asked. 
Another trustee asked how community members were participating in the "process of reflection" promoted by the esc. 
Both Distler and Kravolec said the esc had strong ties with community leaders. Distler mentioned that sev­eral "partway" esc staff members who work at non­profits in South Bend encourage reflection on com­munity service experiences, something which helps link Notre Dame students to the community. 
Trustees were also respon­sive to the new TRANSPO bus routes between Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and downtown South Bend as well as rules that allow Notre Dame students, faculty and staff to ride free at all times. 
When asked how well TRANSPO had been utilized thus far, Baron said 6,000 IDs were swiped in September. 
"I would think from TRANSPO's standpoint that would be very interesting to them," one trustee said, not­ing the potential buying power of students in the community. 
There was one flash of last fall's Board of Trustees meeting where a SafeBus proposal presented by Baron, former student body president Adam Istvan and former student body presi­dent Karla Bell received harsh criticism from trustees. 
"Didn't we have problems with that one for students getting sick on the bus?" one trustee asked. 
But the reference was brief. Another trustee quick­ly responded with the history of what he termed the "party bus," which he said existed in different versions during a "10 to 15-year" period. He assured trustees that TRANPSO was not SafeBus. 
"Well, that sounds out­standing to me," a trustee said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

Afamily concert with Jim Gill is even more playful than his music! 
Sunday October 16th, 2:00 p.m. 
Olaughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College, $5.00 per ticket Tickets available at O'Laughlin Box Office (574) 284-4626 Call the Early Childhood Development Center 


Tax 
continued from page 1 
"After itemizing a taxpayer compares their itemized deductions to the standard deduction and takes whichev­er is higher. Seventy percent of the taxpayers take the standard deduction, meaning only 30 percent really receive a tax break for their dona­tions," Kelly said. "My plan offers a deduction for hurri­cane relief donations in addi­tion to the standard deduc­tion." 
Kelly's proposal would impact millions of taxpayers if implemented, said profes­sor of accountancy James Wittenbach, who teaches Kelly's Tax Research course. 
"Dan's plan is unique in that it provides taxpayers who 
do not currently 

''The impact ifthis
itemize their "Following deductions a did become law their pnisenta­$1,000 deduction tion I asked Dan
will be felt 
for contributions Kelly if he would
nationwide."
to charitable be willing to organizations make a power that help the vic­Dan Kelly point presenta­tims of Katrina tion on his tax
graduate student 
and Rita," Wittenbach said. "Seventy percent of taxpayers would be enti­tled to their regular standard deduction plus the amount they contributed to organiza­tions that assist hurricane victims." 
While Wittenbach's pro­gram focused solely on tax research methodology in the past, he said he introduced tax policy into the course this year. 
"The first day of class this fall. I broke the students into teams of five and asked them to provide me with four or five tax credits that are cur­rently not in the Internal Revenue Code but would be excellent additions," Wittenbach said. "I ask each group to not only come up with new tax credits, but explain the social, economic or political reason for why the tax credit should be enacted by Congress." 
Kelly took the exercise seri­ously. About six weeks after the project was assigned, Kelly approached Wittenbaeh and said he had a developed a tax proposal that he felt could significantly benefit the victims of Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita. 

"The actual idea took about five seconds. It took me maybe an hour to think it through and understand the impact, but the actual idea just popped in my head," Kelly said. "I was reading an article in the Wall Street Journal about the Hurricane Katrina Emergency Tax Act of 2005 ... I was interested to see what the federal govern­ment was doing to help the victims of the hurricanes." 
Word of Kelly's proposal has spread outside of Notre Dame. On Oct. 4, Jim Jaeger, Deputy National Tax Managing Partner from Deloitte from Los Angeles and Schott Ecker, Senior Manager at Deloitte from Costa Mesa, attended Wittenbach's Tax 
Research class to 
make a presen­
tation. 
proposal," 
Wittenbach said. 
"When Dan was finished both Jim and Scott were very impressed." 
Kelly said it was complete luck that the men visited his class and were willing to hear his presentation. 
"They were both impressed with the idea, and especially how this idea will shift a por­tion of the economic burden of this relief effort off the fed­eral government and spread it out across the taxpayers without actually raising taxes," Kelly said. 
Wittenbach said the men were most impressed by Kelly's understanding of the economics of the transaction. 
"For ex·ample, a taxpayer in the 25 percent marginal tax bracket would save $250 in taxes by making a $1 ,000 contribution. However, as Dan explained, although the federal government will lose $250 in tax revenue there is $1,000 going to benefit hurri­cane victims that the govern­ment doesn't have to spend," Wittenbach said. "Put differ­ently-the taxpayer, the fed­eral government and the vic­
tims of hurricanes Katrina and Rita all win." 
The men were so impre,ssed by Kelly's presentation that they will be flying him to Washington, D.C. on Oct. 17, with classmate Katie Landsberg, to present to Deloitte's National Tax Policy office. 
"Deloitte's National Tax Office monitors tax proposals and tax legislation on a daily basis. They work very closely with policy makers on Capital llill," Wittenbach said. "The hope is that following Dan and Katie's presentation, the tax policy professionals at Deloitte will carry the propos­al to Capital Hill where mem­bers of the Ways and Means Committee and the Senate Finance Committee will get a chance to consider it." 
Though Kelly said the idea is still a "long shot" at this point, he is trying to get the idea out so more people can learn about it. 
"The impact if this did become law will be felt nationwide. First it will help generate more donations to the relief effort," Kelly said. "It will give all taxpayers who take the standard deduction a break for their donations. Finally, it will reduce the bur­den on the government to fund the relief efforts." 
Even if Kelly's proposal does not become law, Wittenbach s<iid the students arc lucky to be traveling to Washington, D.C. 
"[Kelly and Landsberg] will be getting an opportunity to see how tax legislation works in this country. Deloitte plans to take them to commit­tee hearings in both the Senate and the House and will also be giving them an inside look at how Deloitte's National Tax Office works," Wittenbach said. "This is an opportunity few students would ever have." Kelly's classmates were equally impressed by his idea and helped to spread the idea by notifying newspapers and congressmen. 
"All of the students in the 
M.S. in Accountancy class are sending Dan's proposal to their Senators and Hepresentatives," Wittenbach said. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 


Looking for an Opportunity to Make a Difference? 
CIA's Directorate of Intelligence will be interviewing candidates for Analyst Positions. 
Repnilsentatives from CIA's analytical arm, the Directorate of Intelligence, will be interviewing for analyst positions in Chicago during the week of November 14th. Analysts work on the forefront of protecting national security, quickly assessing how rapidly changing international developments will impact US interests at home and abroad. They use information from classified and unclassified sources from around the world to develop and provide the reliable intelligence that is essential for US policymakers to make informed decisions. The Dl is hiring for the following positions: 
• 
Analytic Methodologist • Economic, Political, Leadership • Psychological/Psychiatric 

• 
Collection Analyst and Military Analysts Analyst 

• 
Counterintelligence • Science, Technology and • Crime and Counternarcotics Threat Analyst Weapons Analyst Analyst 

• 
Counterterrorism Analyst • Medical Analyst 


Candidates must have at least a bachelor's degree with a minimum GPA of 3.0. Language skills, previous foreign area residence or travel, and relevant work experience are pluses. Candidates must successfully complete a medical examination, polygraph interview, and an extensive background investigation. All positions require US citizenship and relocation to the Washington, DC area. 
The CIA is America's premier intelligence agency, and we are committed to building and maintaining a work force as diverse as the nation we serve. 
For additional information, and to apply online, please visit www.cia.gov. Successful applicants who have submitted their resume by October 17th will be contacted to attend an information session and arrange a local area interview. 
An equal opportunity employer and a drug-free work force. 




MARKET RECAP 
Dow 


10,216.59 -0.32

Jones 
•
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volum 1,157 116 ~, 2,357,995,720 

AMEX 1.594.79 -28.08 NASDAQ 2,047.22 +9.75 NYSE 7,322.74 0.00 S&PSOO I, 176.~4 -0.~4 NIKKfi(Tokyo) I 3,449.24 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 5,265.20 -77.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ)  +0.78  +0.29  37.7!  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  + 1.19  +0.29  24.5~  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.17  -0.04  23.2(  
APPLE COMPUTER (AAPL)  +9.12  +4.49  53.7•  
SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI)  -3.02  -0.19  6.1  


30-YEAR BOND  + 1.05  +0.49  47.0~  
I 0-YEAR NOTE  +0.77  +0.34  44.7~  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.39  +0.17  43.2~  
3-MONTH BILL  + 1.30  +0.47  36.6:  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.04  63.08  
GOLD ($fTroy oz.)  -2.80  473.80  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -2.90  89.48  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  114.655(  
EURO  0.832•  
POUND  0.570~  

IN BRIEF 




Spielberg to make three video games 
SAN JOSI·: -Coming soon to a ganw !:on­solo nnar you: a Stnv1~n Spinlhnrg video gamn. 
Tlw ;u:claimPd film dirndor and producer has agrPPd to dnvPlop thrnn nnw games undPr a long-tPrm Pxdusivn dnal with video ganw makl'r l~lnctronic Arts lne. Tho dnal to hn announrPd Friday rnllncts thn irHornasing­ly intnrtwirwd intnrnsts of llollywood and tho vidno ganw industry. 
(!inanrial tPrms of llw agrnnnwnt wnrn not disclosPd, hut HPdwood City-IHtsed I~A. the world's largl'sl ganw makl'r behind hlock­hustPrs surh as "Maddl'n NFL" and "The Sims," said it will own the inl«'llnctual prop­Prty lll'hind Uw SpiPIIH'rg games and publish 1111'111. 
ThP dPal involvns mur.h morl' than tho llollywood dirPI'tor nwr«'ly putting his stamp on a ganw or popping in for quick consulta­1ions, said Nnil Young, vicn prnsidnnt and studio lu•ad of I·:A's Los Angl'lns studio. 
lnslPad, SpiPIIJPrg will have an ol'l'icl' in J~A's studio. JJp plans to work sidn-hy-sidn with gamn dPvPlopnrs to crnatn original gam­ing content lwginning with tho eon1:ept-not a ganw IHLSI'd on a movie, or vien versa, both of which arn common prartices nowadays. 

Trade deficit soars as oil bill surges 
WASIIINCTON -Tlw nation's oil hill surgnd to a rPrord in August and so did goods importPd from China, pushing tlw U.S. tradn dPikit to Llw third-highest llwPl over. And it is hound to got worse lHH:ausn hurrieann­ndatnd increases for oil ar11 still ahnad. 
T!w deficit rosn to $.'i1J billion, about $1.1 billion mon~ than thn pnwious month, the Comnwrcn lkpartnwnt said Thursday. T!wre was a big inrroasl' in nxport salos of eom­nwrrial jntlirwrs, hut that was swampnd by l"on~ign oil imports. 
Thn numlwr ol" poopln put out ol" work by hurricarws Katrina and Hila dimbnd by 75,000 last Wl~l'k, tho Labor Department rnportnd. Tlw six-wonk tally since Katrina slamnwd ashorn stands at 4:{8,000 hurri­rarw-rnlatnd claims. 
In an encouraging sign, jobless elaims out­sidn of tho rngion aiTnetnd by tlw hurricanes have stayed low. 
page 7 


Inflation fears dominate stocks 
Uncertainty affects Wall Street as prices for import goods rise more than forecasted 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-Wall Stn~nt 
rnmainnd mired in uncer­
tainty Thursday, ending an 
orratie snssion narrowly 
mixnd as investors' inllation 
worries worsened in the 
face of a sharp jump in 
import priees. 
Investors found somo nncouragenwnt al'tnr tho Ennq.,ry Department report­od an inerPase in the nation's rnfining eapaeity, whieh had been severely disruptnd by hurricanns Katrina and Hila. Tho nation's crude oil reserves also roso, sonding oil priens lowor. A barrnl or light erudn was quoted at $(,:Ul8, down $1.04, on tho Now York Mnrcantilo Exehango. 
But the chronic fretting over inflation dominall~d tho markots aftnr tho Commen:o Dnpartment said priees for importod goods roso 2.3 percont in August -the biggest increase in l.'i ynars, and far grnatnr than the 0.9 percent hiko oeonomists.had forecast. 

"We're dol"initnly at a hard point hem, with infla­tion and internst rates kind of looming over evnrything," said Bryan l'iskorowski, market analyst at Wachovia Securities. "Wn havn a mar­ket that's had a very rough October so far, and while you've got earnings coming gold prices fell. the high numbnr of pnople of highnr priens. If thn out­up, that's not going to bo The nnws on import snnking unnmploymPnl looks 1:all for strong the silver· bullet for the pricns overshadowed a bnnolits. fourth-quart1~r sah~s. tlwn marknt that it was in tlw rnport on tho nation's tradn Whiln thn expnetml raft of you could s1w somolhing second quartnr." dnlkit, which rose to $59 eorporatn narnings rnports good ha pJH'n." 
Thn Dow Jorws industria! billion in August, up from dun noxt wnnk may not bn a In 1:ompany rwws, average foil o.:{2, nearly $58 billion the month pananm for thn st01:k mar­(;oogln Inc. fnll $:L53 to llat, to 10,216..'i9. bnforn but lnss than econo­knt's trouhlos, strong fourth $297.44 on rnports that 
Broadnr st01:k indkators mists had expected. Much quarter prol"it forncasts tho lntPrrwt rompany is in worn mixnd. Tho Standard of that increase ean bn could alleviate fnars of a talks to acquirn a sizabln & Poor's .'iOO index lost attributed to higher oil falloff in eonsuml'r spnnd­stakn in Anwrica Onliru• 
0.84. or 0.07 porcent. to priees. ing lwading into tlw holiday fr·om Tinw Warrwr lnr., 1,176.84, and thn Nasdaq Investors also wnre disap­shopping snason -and which rosn I 0 rnnts to compositn indox elimbnd pointed by thn latnst givn stocks a murh-rmndnd $ I 7. 51). Cab It~ o JH' rator 9.75, or 0.4~ poretml., to nmploymnnt picturn from boost. Comrast Corp. was also 2,047.22. tho Labor l>npartmnnt. "Earnings arn tlw most rPportPd to b1~ involvnd in 
Bonds continued thnir First-time joblnss claims l"nll likely catalyst in tlw short thn talks, potPnlially lPad­rneent snlloll", with the yield to 389,000 last week from tnrm," said Huss Konstnrich. ing to a split of i\01., with on tho 10-ynar Trnasur·y 391,000 thn wenk bnforn, snnior porti(Jiio mmmgnr at c;oogln absorbing its WPh notn rising to 4.47 percent hut economists had prndict­Bardays Cloballnvnslnwnts sitns and serviens and from 4.45 pnreont lal1~ ml 360,000 claims for the in San Franei sco. "Tlw Comcast taking ovnr its Wednnsday. The dollar wnek. Conlinund fallout marknt is vnry corH'nrnnd I nt n r 111~ t s e r vi 1: e c11 s­advanend against most from llurricarw about inllation and the con­tomers. Comcast lost 72 major c urrnncins, wh iIn Katrina was blamnd for sumer rolling ovnr bncausn cnnts to $27.20. 

Amtrak board approves subsidiary 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON-Amtrak's chair­man says splitting off the Northnast Corridor -the most heavily traveled portion of the sys­tnm -under l"ederal-state man­agement is the only way to revital­ize U.S. passenger rail service. 
The railroad's board of directors approvnd a resolution authorizing joint management over service from Washington, D.C., to Boston. It would share maintnnance costs whiln Amtrak operatnd the trains. 
"We are ultimately headed toward an nnvironment in whieh states will end up covering some portion of state [rail I· operations," 

David M. Larwy said Thursday in a tnlnphonn intervinw from his Dallas law oiTiee. 
Tho plan. voted on Snpt. 22 hut not announcnd publiely, eamn as a surprise to state oiTieia!s. Tho res­olution was first reported WPdnesday in thn newslnttnr of the Unitnd Hail Passengnr Allianen of Jacksonville, Fla., whieh has bnen eritieal of Amtrak's managnment. 
"Tearing Amtrak to piPees won't so!vn anything, and I hope that's not what they're doing," said Pennsylvania Gov. Ed Hendell, a Democrat. "America's rail system nneds to operate as an integrated whole so it can offer more and bettnr service. Dividing it into smaller and smaller pieces will only takn us furthnr !"rom that goal. 
"For Amtrak to takn IWI'n an ini­ti;tl step towards brnaking up tlH~ railroad without consulting with tho govornors in the Northnast Corridor ealls into question thnir eommitnwnt to a partnnrship for bnttnr rail s1~rvien in tlw futuro." 
Nnw .Jnrsey's transportation commissionnr, Jack Lettinrn, said it would bn unfair if Amtrak want­nd the statns to mako capital con­tributions to a "system that is in a state of disrepair." 
"I have gravn eoncnrns about this," he said. 
But Maryland Transportation Secretary Hobert Flanagan said "tho status quo isn't working." 
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday,October 14, 2005 

Rinh' 110\N, a two-derndo-old war ranes in northern Unande that is being fought prirrorily by kidnapped children. a war that has forced more than a rni!!ion people into camps of squalid conditions and trapped an entire oeneration in tho Hnoos of violence, hunger, and d;suase. Evety night in northern Uganda, 50,000 children between the ages ot three and seventeen walk by themselves up to ten miles !rorn their hornw; to the relat1ve safety ot town centers, where they sleep on sidewalks, under verandas, and in makeshift tents. These children walk in order to avoid beinn abducted and forced into soldiering or sexual slavery by the rebel Lord's Resistance Arrry. 
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 23, 3:00 P.M. NOTRE DAME lEGEND'S PARKING LOT 
CONClUDES AT THE MAIN BUilDING 
with an address by a oraduate student frorn northern U~FHHla 
GuluWalk Day will the largest mobilization in history for peace in northern Uganda. Together, with tens of thousands of people around the world, we will walk to demand that the children are forgotten no longer. 



www.GUUJWIU{.org 
Uganda CENTER FoR SociAL CoNCERNS www.UGANDAClN.org ~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME
contact: pquarant@nd.edu 

r-----------------------------------------­
Friday, October 14, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
versial topies including abor­our lives is more important tion. While he said he wasn't than having a reflection of Him


Passion 
here to antagonize pro-choice on a building," Riehard said. continued from page 1 Catholics, he askHd, "Do you Some of Caviezel's speech 
think Our Lady is pro-ehoice?" shocked listeners. Senior eall the first play in the lie implored students to look Trevor Turner said most Washington game. By using 10-at the people they could poten­Catholics are not prepared to ynar-old Montana's call, tially eonvnrt, and said the see someone be that evangeli­Caviezel said Weis "made an "gleaming souls" ehanged cal in a speeeh. ad of faith" -a thnmc used beeause of the lilm were worth Justin Brandon, a 2004 Notre throughout his speech. morn than any statuette. Dame alumnus, said he was 
Cavinznl said his experiencn When Caviezel asked if the surprised Caviezel was so lively playing Jesus Christ in thn students were ready to make and emphatie. movie gave him "a glimpsn of an aet of faith tlw crowd "Some of the things he said what it means to be forsaken, rosponded positivnly. were shocking, but I agreed reje1;ted .!wd seen as a thing "I believe this University or with evnrything he said," desp1sml. Notre Damn is called to a major Brandon said. "I think it need­
lin described the pain he felt act of faith right now," he said. ed to be said." wlwn he was accidentally lie criticized thn expansion of Students were moved by whipped twice whiln 111ming a the football stadium that Cavinzel's painful experience seenn and when his shoulder obseured the mural of Jesus while filming. was disloeated while carrying painted on the side or the "lie did havn some powerful the cross. lin said he sufTernd library. insight from experiencing even prwumonia, a lung infection, "The image needs to be res­just a part of what Jesus must hypothermia and urrected so every­have gone through," Hichard two lightening one can see it," said. strikes while film­"/ believe this Caviezel said. Senior Trevor Turner said it ing -all of which University is called Caviezel told "was the most spiritual part of forced him "into Notre Dame stu­the speech." 
to a major act of

tlw arms of my dents to make After his speech, students (;od." faith right now." Jesus a major crowdnd around Cavinzel hop­
Caviewl empha­part of their lives. ing for an autograph or a pie­sized his ealling to Jim Caviezel "You were not ture. Freshman Jessica lm an ador, which sent here simply llagcmann compared the
actor

is something he to study or play erowd around Caviezel to the has felt sinee his ball, but to under­crowds of people who try to get youth. stand that you are a son or elose enough to touch the pope. 
"God used nw as his instru­daughter of Notre Dame," he "llis speech was brilliant," he ment." he said. "Anything good said. "This University is about said. "I just sat there in awe." about the movie came from the saving your mortal soul." Father James MeDonald. sen­fasting, the deep prayer and He pleaded with students not ior executive assistant and the daily Mass." to "lose sight of Our Lady while counselor to University 
In his fervent speech, cramming for tests, playing ball President Father John Jenkins, Caviezel disparaged the sin and and drinking Guinness." said Caviezel's trip was more of indifference he sees in today's As for the game Saturday, he a private visit, although he world. asked students to "keep your indicated he would enjoy talk­
"I came here to Notre Dame hand on your rosary, lift Jesus ing with students about his to tell you students to have the in your heart. perform your act faith. courage to stnp into this pagan of faith, pass it right and let it McDonald said Caviezel plans world and sham11lessly express rip." to stay for the football game. your faith in public," he said. Junior Jen Richard called the Notre Dame's Right to Life "We are in a more dangerous speech "a bizarre mix of foot­elub. Student Government, war now than ever before ... ball pep rally and God pep Children of Mary, Knights of our world is entrenehed in sin." rally." She also said she didn't Immaculata and the Orestes 
lin also exhortnd students to really understand what Brownson Council all spon­make an act of faith and "give Caviezel meant when he criti­son~d the event. .Jesus thn best seat" in their cized the expansion of the sta­stadium. dium. Contact Sarah Wheaton at 
Cavinzel spoke about eontro-"I feel like relleeting Jesus in swheaton@nd.edu 

of their fall break at home ­and most said the part of

Break 
break not spent at horne will continued from page 1 be spent at their second home, Notre Dam£L ''I'm going to go home and 
Lee said she was "excited visit some state colleges," for break" and happy to be freshman Patrick Keating leaving campus. said. "But I am going to the 
Other students, like sen­two [football) games." iors Anna Brennan and This weekPnd. the first of Angela Sauer, said that break, kicks off a series of while they will be leaving five Notre Damn homn foot­campus. they are not leaving ball games in a row -which schoolwork behind. most students with season 
"I have so mueh school­tickets are loathe to miss. related work ''I' Ill going to do over home Sunday
"/ have so much
break that it and coming hack doesn't really school-related work Friday lin order 
feel like a to do over break to sen the 
break," Sauer games]," K11ating
that it doesn't 
said. said. ''I'm pretty Both girls really feel like a exeited for the 
said thny break." USC gam11 Pspn­would spend eially." the entirn Stanford soph-
Angela Sauer 
break re-omore Sean searehing and senior O'Toole, who writing their said he usually senior eom-travels "over fall prehensive projeets, inten­break, spring break, and sive works required of Saint Christmas brnak," also said Mary's students to graduate. he was stieking around cam­
''I'm researching surges in pus to watch Notrn Dame the youth votn in the 21st take on USC b11fore travel­century," Brennan said. She ing. also said she will spend "I'm going to bn here until almost her entire break Tuesday, and then I'm going working on the "senior to Washington, D.C. on a comp." base visit with Air Force 
Sauer, who is from non:," he said. Okemos, O'Toole said Mich., said "of eourse" he she will at would not want
''I'm going to be
least be work­to miss the USC 
ing on her here until Tuesday, game, calling it 
project from when I'm going to "the game of the comforts the eentury."
Washington, D. C on
of home -Keating said 
although there a base visit with Air he believes most will be a little Force ROTC" students will added work stay on campus involved in the to watch at
Sean O'Toole 
trip back least the first home. sophomore football game. ''I'm going "I think every­
horne because body's going to there's a German foreign be at the USC game," he exchange student coming to said. "BYU ... hopefully a lot my house, and my mom of people will show up." 
needs me to translate," she Even though he will bn said. staying on campus for a Many students will be good part of thn wnek. spending at least a portion Keating said he appreciated the opportunity to leavn for
r------------------, 
a while.
; VER-\ BRADLEY I
I . . I "It's nicn to havn a break 1 20% offwith NI)/SMCStu.I.D. 1 in the middln of thn snnws-I I ter," he said. 
1 'G!Jt2 c#Hah ~h : 
1 Ea.<tt Bank Emporium R..:staur-anl Bldg. 1 
Contact Nicole Zook at
I 121 S. Niles Ave., {574) 232-8488 ' zook8928@saintmarys.edu
L------------------J 

1213 Lincolnway West-Mishawaka Corner of Logan & Lincolnway 
(574) 256-1444 
Francesco was Chef at Notre Dame for 25 years! Francesco & Family invite you to dine at their house. Enjoy authentic Italian cuisine from Calabria in an elegant yet casual atmosphere. Whether in front of the fireplace or on the veranda, we look forward to serving you and your guests. 
V...VJEJLCOM!JE JFOOTJB\AJLJL JFRJ[JENJD§ AND JFAM!UJLY!! Tuesday-Thursday 
Full bar available
s:oo-9:oo Friday & Saturday 
Free bruschetta with ad 
s:oo-1o:oo 

Francesco's needs servers 
page 10 The Observer + NEWS Friday, October 14, 2005 
Bono rejects U2 ties to fundraising concerts 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -U2's Bono says he is not involved in efforts by U.S. lawmakers to use his band's concerts to raise campaign money. 
Sens. llillary Clinton, D-N.Y., and Hick Santorum, H-Pa., and other politicians have sched­uled fundraising events in pri­vate suites during shows for U2's North American Vertigo tour, which runs through the end of December. 
Jamie Drummond, executive director of DATA, an Africa advocacy group that Bono helped found, said in a mes­sage posted on the band's Web site: "Neither DATA nor Bono are involved in these [fundraisersl, and they cannot be controlled. The U2 concerts are categorically not fundrais­ers for any politician; they are rock concerts for U2 fans." 
Another DATA spokesman said Bono was speaking for himself and not for the rest of the Irish rock band. 
Bono is a lobbyist for the world's poor and AIDS-strick­en. 
Santorum's press secretary, Robert Traynham, said Thursday that the decision by the Senate's third-ranking Hepublican to hold a fundrais­er during Sunday's Philadelphia show is based on his "deep respect and admira­tion for Bono and their work together over the last few years to fight the global spread of I-IIV-AIDS." 
21 st-ccnmry Americans have experienced their share 

.tlssoci,1tt' Dmn oJArts rtnd Lettm 
of arguments over church-state issues, A.1nericans 

''Undcrst.Jnding Personality and .Emorional 
l) 1 · r) • c·" ·1 j ,.
l · 
.c


living during the 19th century f(.mo;bt even more eve opment 111 JaoH:s an(1 ...h1 urcn · 
~ '~· , ~­
passiorutdy over t:he proper role of religion in public 

1 1/12-Navv ·life. Two of the most dramatic battle -one over R.. Scott "~ppleby, Pn:fi•ssor tif~listM} jl)hn Ai.. Reg;m )1: , . Dutctor Of the joan B. f,mc lwtttut!!.for lute mlfwrtfll Peace 5tudtt.i
Mormon polygamy and the other over Bible reading 

Lawrence Cunningham, john A. OBrien Ptt!fi·ssor ojl!:eology
in the schook·········raised essential questions about the 

Rev. Richard l'vkBricn, Dmdey··O'Brien Pr4'r:.isor ofTbcolog;• Republk,s constitutional order. Przybyszewski, a ·~\ Clungc at the Ti)p: Pope Benedict XVI" 
historian Sj)Ccializing in legral history and 
(,, , 

11/19-SvracuscConstitutional interpretation, will examine these Maria T~masula, lvfirh,u:!!: Gmr:e Assodrttc ProFes..-or 
' • 4 
compelling issues. oj Art; Art Hi,itO~Jl milt Drsign '' Va~r: The Art of Maria Tbmasu!a'' (Snire ?vfusc·um of An) 
3-1/2 hour~ hd(Jrc ki(.kofLu the audit(1rium in tlk' Hc.\burgh C:mcr [i)r lntcnwiorul Studk-; (unbs mhGwise norcd). ' 
r:or more inf(xmation, visit http://satuniayschoiar.nd.cdu 

For rnore infurrnation. visit http://sawnlaysdwlar.nd.edu 
UNIVERSITYOP 
NOTRE DAME 


New-rules allow-tnore pollution 
Bush proposal loosens environmental regulations on power plants 
Associated Press the nation's 600 coal-burning Electric Institute, another 
power plants, which repre­trade group. lie said it was "a 
WASHINGTON -The Bush sent 55 percent of the gross distortion of the facts" administration proposed new nation's electric generating to conclude that power plants regulations Thursday that capacity. Industry officials say would increase pollution. could allow the nation's dirti­the plants are getting cleaner. But an analysis of EPA data est power plants to release But they continue to produce by Environmental Defense more air pollutants each year millions of tons of nitrogen shows many East Coast power -and possibly undercut law­oxides and sulfur dioxide plants won't install new con­suits aimed at forcing compa­blamed for smog, acid rain trols to clean up sulfur diox­nies to comply with the Clean and soot and other fine parti­ide by 2015, despite EPA's Air Act. cles that lodge in people's predictions. 
The proposal follows a June lungs and cause asthma and In June, the 4th U.S. Circuit federal court ruling that said other respiratory ailments. Court of Appeals said Duke power plants can throw more They also remain a big source Energy Corp. didn't need per­pollutants into the air each of mercury, which works its mission from EPA or states year when they modernize to way up the food chain after when it improved eight power operate for longer hours. being absorbed by fish. plants in North Carolina and 
It's the latest in a series of EPA "is embracing industry­South Carolina from 1988 to attempts by the backed loopholes that under­2000. But EPA seems to Environmental Protection mine basic protections for depart from another ruling in Agency to make the nearly millions of Americans breath­June, by the U.S. Court of 30-year-old Clean Air Act ing harmful smokestack pol­Appeals for the District of rules for coal-fired power lution," said Vickie Patton, an Columbia. In a challenge by plants more industry-friendly. attorney who handles air New York to EPA's air pro­Some changes were held up quality issues for the advoca­grams, that court said by lawsuits from environmen­cy group Environmental "Congress directed the talists and state officials. Defense. agency to measure emissions 
"We are now doing to Proponents say other EPA increases in terms of changes smokestacks what we did to and state regulations would in actual emissions," not by tailpipes," said EPA prevent that from happening. hourly rates. Administrator Stephen "The heavy lifting of emis­The Bush administration in Johnson, who predicted the sions control is already 2002 and 2003 rewrote how regulations would spur ensured by tough new EPA EPA administers a Clean Air greater technology innova­rules on interstate emissions Act program that Congress tion. and mercury control," said approved in 1977. It was 
"We want to remove any Scott Segal, director of the designed to ensure that aging unnecessary regulatory Electric Reliability power plants would have to obstacles," he said. "We're Coordinating Council, which install state-of-the-art equip­focused on practical, achiev­represents electric utilities. ment if they expanded or able results that don't get Utilities are legally obligat­modernized in a way that ~ela.red by years of litiga­ed to continue to cut their results in significantly more twn. pollution, said Dan Riedinger, air pollution in surrounding 
The EPA proposal affects spokesman for the Edison communities. 
Fall 2005 Schedule 
Experience an intimate discussion with \olre Dame's most engaging faculty speaker!' on some of the most pressing issues of our times. 
9/17-Mkhigan State 
Linda Jlrzybyszewski, lt;sociatt l1rojessm· ~lHiHo~v 
''Catholics, Concubines, and the Comtiturion: 
() ' (., 1> , (''l . J ... ,,
1. tl1·· .. emury names over ... 1urch anu ~tate 
10/15-USC 
Thomas Slaughter, Andrrw V lctl'kcs Pn!fi'ssor ofHistmy 
"Exploring Lcwb and Chrk'' 
10/.22-BYU 1\..f J.i'-. [L.. f' J 1 flj c·· 5' .., fl ·' ,,
James IVl~fiUil, iV.'U. ,;rtJ!lUnrf , !JJfC, "'·. (..) rflf€'.i.\Or Of 
Anthmpology 
"Clring 1:Jr Babies, Caring i~H Parents: What Human Inhnts 1klllv Need ;'tnd Whv'' 
I I 
11/5-Tennessee Julia Hraungart-Rieker, ProjeJ:,or ~j'PJychology, 
"Catholics, Concubines, a; the Constitution: 1 ntury Battles ove1" Church and State" 
Linda Przvhvszewsld 
' ' 
AsJocirlte Professor ofHistory 
''Cfuholirs, ConmbineJ, t!nd rhe Constitution: 1.9rh­Cemurv Battle.,· m'er Church ant! Strite," with Linda 
.I 
Przybyszewski, associJ.te prort'ssor ofhistory. While 

r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, ( ktober 14, 200) page II
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 


Troubles at the Getty Museun1 ripple through art vvorld 
Former curator of Los Angeles museum will face trial next month over allegations that she received stolen antiques 
Assoda1cd Press trallicking. 
"The Cotty ease is so impor­

I.OS AN<a·:U~S -A plot lit for tant that it will represent a a llollywood thrillnr has bnnn milestone and compiPtely unfolding at thn venerable J. change relations within the art Paul (;nuy Musnum, a gloaming world," Anna Maria Heggiani, 
hilltop rnfuge that Italian director of archaeology at the authorities elaim housns pil­Italian Culture Ministry, said. fPrnd art. That attitude is a brnak with 
A dnradn aftnr lnnding niTorts tho past. With fomign authori­aJ.(ainst. thn illngal tradn of arti­ties less aggressive than now. faets. t.lw musnum's rneently museums competing to build dnpartnd antiquitins curator their collections might have facns trial rwxt month in Honw bonn more willing to look thn owr allngations that slw know­other way rngarding tlw origins ingly rPrPiVI'd downs of stolon of high-dollar antiquities. itnms. "Tiw (idty was not acting 
Tlw intPnmtionally n•nownPd alone in this way," said Steven (;Ptty finds itsPif dol'lneting a Thomas. an art law expPrt and harragn of qtwslions about how professor at thn University of it amassnd its world-dass eoi­California at Los Angelos. IPrtion of Boman, (;rook and "Many museums were doing l·:trusr.arr works. And tho art this." world is lnl'l to wondnr wlu~l.lwr Grem~n has long sought thn Llw musnt11n's nrrrnnt dilmnma return of statues and fragments will rl'l'ocus attnntion on how known as tho Elgin Marbles art is aequin~d. from tlw British Museum, taken 
"Wt> don't want to lwconw in tlw 19th century from the assoriatnd with Enron-typn l'artlwnon by Lord Elgin, then AP
institutions." said Snlma llolo. British ambassador to the 
Visitors walk in the gardens at the J. Paul Getty Museum Sunday in Los Angeles. The museum's recently 
diro1~tor of tlw lntornational Ottoman Empire; Egypt wants 
departed antiquities curator will face trial in Rome over allegations she received stolen artifacts.
Musnum lnstituto at the to reclaim iconic artifacts UnivPrsity of Southern including tlw Hosetta Stone California. "We'rn all looking to from London and a Nefertiti manuscripts and 17th-century sculpture represonting 1995, thn (;ntty was among tlw our own gardons and making bust from Berlin. Dutch paintings. Aphrodite and a marbln statue first museums to publidy dotail surn wo'vn cultivatod them Tho opening of the $1 billion Boosters hoped it would of Tyche, the goddess of fortune, a stricter policy for tlw acquisi­propnrly." Getty museum complex nearly silence skeptics who regarded that both are morn than 2,000 tion of antiquities. In 1999, tlw 
(;ptty otlidals have dnnind any night ynars ago was heralded as Los Angeles as a cultural waste­ynars old. Getty rnturnod thnw pinens to wrongdoing. Tho musnum orw of the most important art land. The charges surprised those Italy. ineluding a lil'th 1~mttury rncm1tly dnscribml the return of events in recent U.S. history. But while the museum has who have considored True, 56, B.C. drinking cup. thnw ohjnets, ineluding an Funded by a multibillion-dol­generated international ac­a pior1eer in advocating for Antiquities arn onn hallmark l·:trusran bronw candnlabrum lar endowment from the oil daim. it also has attracted an greater scrutiny of tho prove­of the museum, which also Italian authorities al11~ge was magnate. the musmrm for years international investigation. nance, or ownership record, of houses paintings. drawings, stoh•n from a privato collection, had been housed at the intimate In May, a judge in Home antiquities. dncorativn arts and photo­as "dnmonstrating the Cotty's Getty Villa in Malibu. The new ordered True tried on charges "She has. been known to take graphs. Wlwn tlw villa in intPrnst in a productive relation­eomplnx --a maze of marble that she allegedly helped the the aggressive stance, instilling Malibu reopnns in .January fol­ship." buildings overlooking Los museum a1~quiro, betwnnn 1986 in everyone that they should lowing a six-year. $275 million 
That hasn't slownd Italian Angeles and the Pacific Ocean and the late 1990s, about 40 only be acquiring established renovation, it will lw dndicatnd prosPrutors, who hopn thnir -let Getty trust11os develop a archaeological treasur11s stolen and well-documPntnd objects," to the display of about 1,200 trial of fornwr antiquitins <~ura­campus featuring an eelectic from private collections or dug said Thomas. tho art law nxpnrt. pieces from tho nxtPnsivn antiq­t.or Marion True will dntnr art mix of furniture, illuminated up illicitly. They ineludo a stone UndPr True's leadership in uitins collection. 

An Invitation to all Arts and Letters Students to An Informal Discussion with 
Mark Roche 
I. A. O'Shaughnessy Dean of the College of Arts and Letters What is current student perception of the "personality" of the College? How do we create a positive perception of the College that reinforces student identification with Arts and Letters? If you were Dean, what might you change to enhance learning in the College? Topics for discussion will include: Undergraduate Research Opportunities in the College Fellowship and Scholarship Opportunities for Arts and Letters Students 
Jobs Opportunities for Arts and Letters Graduates Whatever else might be on your mind 

$~----------:;;;c~7--_,


20F F •
Premium Soft Cloth Wash
OUR

1 • Polist1-n-Sealer:B E sT Wax Applied 
1 • 2-Step Underbody f Protectant 

52694 State Road 933 South Bend, Indiana 46637 I 

Just 2 miles north ol Notre D~tmo on U.S. 31 ..
: WASH •Spot-Free 
Offer good at the South Bend location only
Rtl?se

1 1 
·-------------------------------­

Friday,October 14, 2005

page 12 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
SINCE HIS BONE TRANS~ TYLER' IS PLAYING WITii A HANDICAP. .AT THE. MOMENT,-IT'S ABqUT NINE. 
c 
Q) 
::;:,
lO 
Q) 
'"CJ lO H 
..c 
0) H Q) 
E 
:.1 •rot 
0 ~­
c 
Q) 
~ E '0 
c U1, 
Q) 
::;:, 
• 
Q) ~ 
lO '"CJ 0 ,.....f 0) 
::J 
0 ~ 3 E 
~ E '"CJ 
Q) 
0 ..c 
..c ~ 
0 
z 3 
0
• ..c 
c 
0) 
•r-1 
4-)
lO Ol .. 
.(0 
c 
'"CJ' ~ -rot 
Q)· "Q

Ol lO H t 
c 
Q) (f... Q) •r-1 
~ ~ 
,.....f c 
«J «J E ,.....f 
~ a.. 
0 0) 
c c 
lO lO ~ E ~ 
Q)
lO 
c 
H 0 
.. ..c 

..... 
• I 
~ 
lO 
..J: 
+) 
_Q) 
::;:,. . 0. 
,.....f. 
-·~ 
.Ql 
. ..c 
J­
• 
Q) .I 
.p 
•r-1 
..c 
~ ~ 
lO 
..c 
0) 
(0. 
E 
0 
~ 
(f... 
0) 
·tO ~ 0 
0) 


. i 
~,; 
E 
~ 
0 
(J'l 
H 
0) ,.....f 
~ 
•r-1 Ol 
,.....f 
r-1 
Q) 
~ 


' ' . . 
he. simply doesn;t have time. ~ self..:.describe~ normal teenage kid, 
National Transplant .Tyler has moved on from that bone -cancer and th~ tissue transplant 
, '· • , ·....:. . I • • ~'-'.,s , .
Assistance Fund . 
DQ!1JATE 




LIFE 

that followed. Today, he enjoys everythm.g that other·high schoor . 
. . ' / . . 
® ·· ·students ~njoy_:especially golf. :ryler ·absolutely loves tha game arid ·_ 
~ ' ' 
has turned into.quite a golfer. All possible b~c;;uJ.~e someone like you 
. ' 
made :the· de·cisi~n. to be an or~an,~~nd ti5sue-do~o~.... ·, 
YOU HAVE THE POWE~ TO DONATE LIFE. To help a patient awaiting:a.transpl~t, co~tai:t ·~ation~l·1'ranft1Jlant A~~istan~~ Fund... ·_ 
. 1 800-642:-S399. • Radnor, PA • WWW~transplantfund.org /
' -· I ' . .' . , I 
I 
·.. 

Friday, October 14, 2005 The Obser11er +NATIONAL NEWS 
ABC criticized for interns' story 
Summer journalists draw fire for investigative report on nuclear plants 
Associated Press 
NI·:W YOHK -ABC News is drawing nn~ for using eollngn inlnrns in an invnstigalivn rnporl that allngns lax sneurily at nudnar rPaelors on 25 U.S. rollngn nunpusns. 
Tlw "l'rinwlinw Livn" rnport c~xaminns how closn thosn inlnrns wnrn abln to gnt to tlw rnar.lors. tlworizing lhn facili­tins could lw vulrwrablc~ to lnr­rorisls who c~ould snt oiT bombs that rc•lnasP radiation into thn atmosphnrP. 
ABC said its intnrns found unlorkPd doors, saw unrnanrHHI sPrurity booths and. in sornn 
rasns, WPrn givPn "We are concerned nicalions. grams. Wn did not hido our guidPd tours that that interns. college At Ohio Stat.n, cameras. Wr1 wnrn hiding in gavn t lwrn ar.r·.nss sncurity proce­plain sight. It wasn't as srwaky
students, were

to control rooms dures wnre eor­as thoy wnre making it. out to and rnactor pools. placed in a position reelly followPd, be." 
mu·.Jpar power, and ask if tlwy Both university ofl'icials said eould look around. They ear­lhn inlnrns should havn idnnli­rind r11gular eamoras, not TV lind tlwmselves as lwing from eamnras, and did not say tlwy ABC Nnws. wnrn from ABC Nnws. Thny "I think the nthies is some­wnr·nn't being untruthful, Hoss what qunstionahln," Shultis said. said. "It's a finn point whnn 
Ohio Statn and Kansas Statn they were trying to misdirnet or offir~ials say they givn tours mislnad." because, as educational facili­But ABC said it's likely thny ties, it's tlwir job to sprnad thn would havn been trnated dilTer­word about how nuelear ener­nntly as rnporters. The point gy is bning used. was to show how a terrorist 
Saying the interns WPrn abiP could pose as a student and to gnl close to tho facility is nasily bn a throat, Hoss said "likP corning to my drivnway "Wn were students," said and saying, '(;unss what? I just Dana llughns, a Columbia got into McDonald's!'" said Univnrsity Gradual<~ School of l~arlo llolland, Ohio Staln snn-Journalism studonl who 
ior dirPctor for workod on the projoel. "Wn 
rnsnareh r.ornmu-wnr11 inlorestnd in thn pro­
page I J -------_" _______ 

Wotnan charged vvith stealing unborn baby 

dishonest about

Ohio Statn univnr­searched and or llirling, "sonw people could silil's nxpr!'SS!'d their roles and held during thn lind that a qunstionabln linn of 
Associa£ed Press angnr about tlw in ten lions. " lour. ThP lour dei'Pnse," she said. rc~port lwforc~ its was nndnd bP-Alnx Jonns, din~etor of llw 
PITTSBUHGII -A woman srlwduiPd airing cause one of tlw Joan Shorenstein C11ntnr on the 
dubbed her pn~gnanl rwighbor
Terry King 

Thursday. intorns altornptnd Prnss, Politics and Public Poliey 
over the head with a bas!'ball "Wn arn eon­engineering dean to take a placard at Harvard, which providod 
bat, drove her to the woods and cnrrwd that in­Kansas State that listed soeuri-two of the intorns, said hn did-
cut her belly with a knii'P in an 
Pennyslvania State Pollee investigators walk out of the
0 l'l'i cia Is at where they were and lhn intnrns If all it look to g11l into facili­
mobile home of Peggy Jo Conner Thursday In Ford City, Pa.
Kansas Staln and had thnir bags ties was talking like a sludnnt 
lPrns, collngn slu­dnnts, wnro plac~nd in a position wlwrn lhny wnrc1 dishorwst about thnir rolns and inlnnlions," Torry King, dnan of Kansas Stale's nngincwring school, said in a 
letlnr.  
ABC said its interns  were  
inslructnd nollo lin.  
Two  sludPnts  nar.h  from  

Columbia, Northwestern, II arvard, Sou thnrn California and California-Bnrknlny univnr­silins wnrc1 working at ABC Nnws as part of an intc1r'nship program finanend by thn Carnngin Corp. and lhn Knight Fo u n d ali o n . T h n y w n rc~ assignnd to tlw projnr.t and SUJH'rvisl'd by rnporlnr Brian Hoss and his invnstigativn lmun -and WPJ"Cl picknd. in part. lwcausn lookc>d tlw part. 
"Tiw day has long sinen passl'd that I could pass as a rollc-gc• sludnnl," said Hoss, 5(,, 
Tlwy W!'rn told to go to tlw rl'ac·tor J'ac~ilitins, say thny wnrn graduate• sludnnls inlnrnstnd in 
ty proeaulions in n 'l want to prejudge ABC's 

attempt to stnal hnr baby, 
caso of a bomb rnporl. 
police said. 
sr~are, he said. "I don't think there's anything 

Police said Wednesday's 
At Kansas Slaln, officials wrong with finding out whether 

attack on Valerio Oskin was 
antieipatnd the visit; word had minimal security was being 

slopped before her baby was 
gotten around the observed at 

taken after a teenager on an 
small nuelear nuclnar facilities, 

all-terrain vehido came ar:ross 
rosearch commu­providing you 
the women. 
nity that re­"We were students. didn't misrcpro-

Oskin, 30, later undnrwont an 
portors saying We were interested sent yourself," he 

emergency Caesarean section 
they wPrP stu­said. "And from 

at a hospital. Statn poliee
in the programs. 
dents had ap­what I undnr­

Thursday said she was in criti­
We did not hide
roached faeilities. stand, none of 

cal condition and hnr baby in 
ThP students were our cameras. thnse sludonls 

stable condition. She was 
givnn a tour any-did." 

believed to have been night 
way, evnn though Hoss said it 

months pregnant, authorities
Dana Hughes 
this was later wasn't a ease of 
said.
ABC intern 
eitod by ABC an thn interns bning 

Peggy Jo Connor, 3S, of' Ford 
nxarnplo of a taught "gotcha" 

City, was arraigned Thursday 
polontial security journalism 

on charges of atlmnptnd horni­
risk. instead of invnsligalivP journal­

eide and aggravalnd assault 
Thn interns llirtml with soeu­ism. The students did a great. 
and was jailnd without bail. 
rily offkers to try to get in, said deal of roseareh into the 

"It would appear l'rorn thn 
Ken Shultis, Kansas State's nuclnar programs bnfore going 

defendant's statnment that h<'r 
nuclear nnergy program direc­to the universities, he said 

goal was to gel llw virlim 's 
tor. The guards flirted back, The students didn't embark 

unborn child and lake it as lwr 
sinen they were trying to gnt on tlw projec:t with a specific 

own," Dislriel Attorney Scott 
tlw intnrns to pose l'or a picture rnsult in mind. "A lot of them 
Androassi said in a statonwnt. 
tlwy wantod to providn to tlw wnrn hoping that thny didn't. 

lnvnstigators found a 
FBI. find tlwse stories," hn said. 

bassinet, a baby swing and 
AP 
otlwr baby-rnlal.l'd itnms in hl'r trailnr, authorities said. 
"Clnarly, shn was expneting a child coming in shortly," Andrnassi said. ''Then•'s noth­ing t~~ indicalP slw was preg­nant. 
Thomas Wilks. who says lw is Conrwr's husband hut is sepa­ratnd from lwr, c.allnd thn alln­gations against lwr "impossi­bln" and said slw truly was pregnant. 
"I got a sonogram saying she is prngnanl," Wilks told rnporters. "I ldl thn hahy kick in her stomach." lin added that Conner is thn motlwr of thrPn ehildrnn, agns Ih, 14 and II. 
Connnr and Oskin had a "dose friendship." Wilks said. "It was golling closer as thn days wnnt hy. Thny wnn1 pn~g­nanl tognl.lwr. Thny wnrn hnlp­ing each ot.lwr out." 
Thn assault began Wednesday morning, wlwn Conrwr hit Oskin several limns with a hal, Andrnassi said. Conner llwn put Oskin and Oskin 's 7-ynar-old son in lwr ear. droppPd thn hoy oiT at a family nwmlwr's housn and drove llw pn~gnant woman ahout I!i rnilns lo a snrludPd arPa about 50 rnilns rwrtlwast of Pittsburgh, Andrnassi said. 

Sugarberry Lane "Welcomes All Students, 

WIN ALEGEND EAGLE ONE
Families & Friends To The Game! 


Holy Cross & St. Stanislaus Parish
While you arc in town, be sure to visit 
will hr raffling rhi~ beautiful red,
Sugarberry Lane. Bring this ad and SAVE 
Harley Davidson Powerd 
Legend Eagle One



15% OFF* 
on all of your purchases, when you select from our 
Onlv 3000 ti~Kt'tS will he soiJ. 
in stock regularly priced items. 

$20 per ticket 
This area's FAVORITE VERA BRADLEY Emerald Dealer 

All proceeds go to benefit the Renaissance Campaign to build 
Great lines of creams and skin care items • Yankee Candles & Plug-ins 

along-awaited Gym and Social Center and to create astate
Plus many fine gifts & seasonal decor items 

of the art library, media center and art department for the 
Locally owned by Mary Farwig and Ann Watson (SMC '65) 
students of Holv Cross School. 
i 
Send your ticket information to:
52313 St. Rte 933 North 

Holy Cross, 920 N. Wilber St., South Bend, IN 46628
South Bend, IN

' 
For more information call 574.233.2179 
574.272.9608 

Be sure to include your name, address and phone number. 
Mon-Fri 1 Oarn to 6prn • Sat. 1 Oarn to Spn1 • C1oscd Sun 
Drawing will be .\lay 26, 2006 or before if all rickm are sold earlier. 
A few rnilcs north of Notre Dan1c & St. Mary~s 

Indiana l.icense # I011569
'''Offer expires October 31, 2005 




page 14 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Friday, October 14, 2005 



What are you doing next summer? 

r 



May 17 -June 18, 2006 
~All returning ND & St. Mary's undergrads eligible v' Study in London v' Travel in Europe v' Earn 6 credit hours v' Still have 2 months of summer left when you return! 


n v r he 
k 7 r gr mm s 
Applications are available at 223 Brownson Hall or on-line at www.nd.edu/--sumlon 







Affleck urges aid for New Orleans 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Six weeks al'ter Hurricane Katrina struck the Gulf Coast, Ben Af11eck is urging continued contribu­tions to the relief effort. 
The actor has donated sev­eral items -including a "Good Will Hunting" script he and Matt Damon signed -to an online charity auction by Charity Folks and Citizens Helping Heroes. 
"I think one of the dangers of great tragedies like this is, once they fall away from the 24-hour news cycle, there's a tendency to think, 'Well that's dealt with,"' Affleck told The Associated Press by phone Thursday. 
"It's not something that can b~~ ameliorated with the one telethon we did the month al'terward. It's a continuing process." 
Affleck said he got involved with the auction, which began Wednesday and ends Oct. 27, after he received a call from former President Clinton's office. Proceeds will benefit the Bush-Clinton Katrina Fund and the National Guard Family Program. 
"One of the ways that I could contribute was to shill some memorabilia, and the other was to talk to you and tr~ to get people to pay attention to this auction," Affleck said. 
The auction also includes items from Jessica Simpson, AI Pacino, The Rolling Stones, Sting, Maroon 5, Derek Jeter and others. 
The 33-year-old Affleck has shown political interest in the past, including an appearance at last year's Democratic National Convention. 
Does the Katrina aftermath inspire him further to run for office? 
''I'm interested in politics and like to be involved with them, and this is all I'm doing right now," he said. "But if you want to be my campaign manager, you come over here and we'll talk about it." 
Affleck was to begin filming "Smokin' Aces" in Lake Tahoe, Nev., on Friday. The movie, about a mob informant, also stars Jeremy Piven, Andy Garcia and Ray Liotta. 
Damon and Affleck won a screenwriting Oscar for 1997's "Good Will Hunting." 

Government probes terrorist threat leak 
Homeland Security Department investigates 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The Home­land Security Department is investigating whether depart­ment officials privately tipped off relatives or friends about last week's subway terrorism threat before the public was given the news, officials said Thursday. 
The probe was announcPd as Gov. George Pataki and Police Commissioner Haymond Kelly raised concerns about the possi­ble leak, first reported in the Daily News. 
"Obviously it's disturbing; it's just not right," Pataki said after an official appearance in mid­town Manhattan also attended by Kelly. "The public should know at the same time.... There should not be limited public notification to a handful of people, or people who might be otherwise politically connect­ed." 
The Daily News reported Thursday that police had obtained copies of personal e­mails that alluded to an alleged al-Qaida plot, and had forward­ed them to federal officials. 
A Homeland Security spokesman in Washington, Russ Knocke, said an internal investi­gation was under way. "We take any potential leak of sensitive or classified information very seri­ously," he said. 
When FBI and police ollicials went public with the threat Oct. 6, Homeland Security down­played it, saying it was "of doubtful credibility." After four days of high alert, local oflicials announced Monday there was no clear evidence an attack would be carried out and sealed bar.k the protection. 
"It's ironic that on the one hand the department is saying this is not a credible threat and then, if these e-mails are true, people within the department with access to classified infor­mation felt it was worth con­tacting their own families," said Hep. Peter King, R-N.Y., chair­man of the Ilouse Homeland Ser.urity Committee. 
The e-mails began circulating Oct. 3 -three days before Kelly and Mayor Michael Bloomberg announced they were putting thousands of extra police offi­cers on patrol in the subways in response to the possible plot to bomb the subway using brief­cases or baby strollers packed with explosives. 
The Daily News quoted one e­mail -purportedly penned by the unnamed son of a high­ranking Homeland Security offi­cial -in which he warns recip­ients: "The only information I can pass on to you is that every­one should at all costs not ride the subway for the next two weeks in major areas of NYC." 
Friday, October 14, 2005 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 15 
TURKEY 

Villages scoured for poultry after bird flu confirn1ed 
Teams searched throughout Turkey after a case of the violent virus was detected in the western part of the country 
Asmciated Press 
KIZIKS/\-!\. t!~am in white, l'ull-hody protective suits scoured a villagn in W!~stnrn Turkny Thursday for any poul­try farmers might be hiding or that !~ o ul d h a v n n s !~a pn d destruction aftnr t.hn Europnan Union ron firm n d a virulent strain of bird flu had bonn d!1teeted in tlw rngion. 
Tlw Turkish gowrnnwnt said it has contairwd tlw outbreak of the 115N I virus, which sd1mtists worry might mutate into a human virus and spark a pan­demic. 
Bird flu was detected after I.HOO turkeys dind on a farm in Kiziksa, HO miles southwest of Istanbul. 
Authorities have destroynd sonw H,hOO turkeys and chiek­!HJs in the arna and placed the villagn under quarantine, but hundn·ds of poultry apparnntly !~S!~a,wd the d1~struetion. 
"Normally it would be over, of," Onat said. "They are per­hut a few people arn hiding fectly healthy." tlwir chickens," said one veteri­The animals squawked loudly nary o fl'i ci al, as they were spnaking on con-forced into the dition of anonymi-small box in thn ty because baek of the truck. Turkish olTicials "Normal life is !\. few seconds ran only talk to later the hissing of
going on, people
reporters with gas could be heard 
are not afraid. " 
prior authoriza­followed by tion. silence. Onat Farmer Aile Ekrem Gokturk appeared angry 
Onat came to the and quickly left. 
Kizlksa mayor
truck with two Kiziksa Mayor white bags carry-Ekrem Gokturk ing two or three said the govern­dueks naeh. The ment would pay vetnrinary oiTieials worn protee­farmers $3.70 for eaeh of their live suits and faee masks, but chickens and $22 for a goose. Onat wore only his street eloth­Many in the village were like ing. lie was smoking a cigarette Onat and seemed to brush aside with one hand and pulled the tlw dangers. animals with his other bare "Normal life is going on, peo­hand from the bags. ple are not afraid," Gokturk 
lin said lw found the killing of said. the animals pointless. But the veterinary official "There is nothing to be afraid warned that "the people who 


A(• 

A Romanian health worker tries to catch turkeys before they are gassed in an eastern village of Romania on Thursday. 
know what is going on are afraid." 
For the past week, Kiziksa 



Notre Dame vs USC Book Signings 
Friday, October 14 
Future Domers 
Sharon Bui 1:00pm-3:00pm 
Notre Dame 
Baseball Greats 
Cappy Gagnon 1:00 pm -3:00 pm 
The Phantom Leners Tom Pagna 1:00pm-3:00pm 
Saturday, October 15th 
Notre Dame: Where Have You Gone? 
Eric Hansen 9:00 am-11:00 am 
My First Notre Dame Words: GO IRISH 
Connie McNamara 10:00 am-12:00 pm 
The Rudy In You 
Rudy Ruettiger 
10:00 am -12:00 pm 
The Spirit of Notre Dame 
Jim & Jeremy Langford 10:00 am-12:00 pm 
I Play for Notre Dame 
Ted Mandell 
3:00 pm -5:00 pm 
Hard Sell 
Jamie Reidy 3:00 pm-5:00 pm 

Events are subject to change. "" Please call to confirm. www.ndcatalog.com 
Tales from the Notre Dame Hardwood Digger Phelps 11:00 am-1:00pm 
Tales from the Notre Dame Sideline 
Gerry Faust 12:00 pm -1:00pm 
Legendary Notre Dame Quarterbacks 
will be in the bookstore signing their new DVD "Inside the Irish Huddle" from 
1o:ooam-12:oopm 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (5741 631-6316 • www.ndcotolog.com 


has bnnn under quarantirw fol­lowing the discovery of the dnad turknys. !\. Turkish laboratory tested samples from tlw birds and conlirnwd tlwy had an ll!i strain of bird flu. The samples were tlwn sent to a laboratory in London to test. for tlw fean~d 115N I strain. 
On Thursday, 1\U llnalth Commissioner Markos Ky p ri an 0 U a nn oUIH'. P d i II Brussels that "we have rnenivml now confirmation that tlw virus found in Turkey is an avian flu 115N I virus." 
The 115N I bird flu strain does not easily infect humans, hut I 17 people, mostly poultry workers, have eaught it ovl'f the last two years and hO have died. Scientists are tracking the spread of the virus in birds because it eould mutatn into a dang1~rous human pandemic strain. 
Agriculture Minist11r Mehdi liker said authoritins wern on alert for eases nlsnwlwrn in Turk1~y. which lies on thn path of several migratory bird spPdes. 
Turkish authorities lwlieve the turknys !~ontraetnd tlw dis­ease from migratory birds that pass through tlw Manyas Bird Sanctuary outside of tlw village on tlwi r way to /\fri!'.a from tlw Ural mountains in Hussia. 
Turkish paramilitary polkP S!~t up throe !'.hnekpoints outside tlw village, tlw first night miles away. 
/\II ears entering or exiting tlw village had to driw through a disinfertant pool sPwral inrh­ns d1wp. 
Turhy has askPd tlw Swiss pharmac1~u tieal eom pany Horlw llolding /\G for I million box1~s of a standard flu nwdirirw as a prneaution, said a llnalth Ministry ol'lieial who spokn on condition of anonymity bneausn she was not authorized to speak to the nwdia. Eaeh box contains 10 eapsules. 
Kyprianou said the J<:uropean Commission was proposing to set aside $1.2 billion to lwlp make and distribute anti-virals and vaeeines "in ease of a pan­demic." 
lie advised Ell countries to administer the standard flu vac­cine to vulnerablo populations: people over age 65, young chil­dren, those with weakened immune systems or chronk res­piratory conditions and thosn living near the outbreak sites. There is no vaednn to protnet against bird flu, but experts believe the standard flu vacdne eould holp. 

Majestic Athletic. Official Licensee of the Universit'l of Notre Dame: .f'!t...
~~~· 

FIGHTING IRISH 
Available on Campus and at Local Retailers. ..,. 
0 0 

-~~· 0 0 000 ••••• 0 """ •••' ''" •OOo 0 0 0 '00000'" 0 0 •••~'" '•••O 0 •• ' 0 000 ••'' • 000 ••• •• 00 •••~'""' ••••"-~ <' ~ 000 > "'" •••••-•••• >< • ••ooo• ••••••• • •<••••" • oOOoo 0 < < 0000 '" 0 ooooo •• oO<O > • ><< <000 •• <OooO• • •••••~•••' ••• ••••• •~••••• > """ OOoO> > << OoOo• • < < oooo o• < 0000 ••• • o •oNYooo • • • ••••"' o, o<O• •••, oooo •• oooo oo o •••••• 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, October 14, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 17 
Viruses spread at jet speed in air 
Aviation officials take steps to prevent birdflu breakout on airplanes 
Associated Press 
WASIIIN<;TON -Planes pro­vide the quickest way to get from orw part of the world to another -for deadly conta­gious diseases as well as for people. 
In the spring of 2003, the res­piratory virus SARS journeyed to nve countries in 24 hours after emerging in rural China. Airline and tourism industries lost billions of dollars worldwide because people were afraid to travel and governments ordered flights canceled. 
With concerns about bird flu rising, U.S. health and aviation officials are taking steps to guard against a rep1mt. 
More quarantine stations have benn snt up at airports. A better systmn is in placn for tracking travnlers who might have been kick it out," said Steve van Beek, executive vice president of the Airports Council International, a trade group. By that he means letting airports know they should be prepared to make space available and tell staff and police that planes will need to be isolated and passengers quarantined. 
Since the Sept. 11 terror attacks, most airports have con­tingency plans and crisis cen­ters, van Beck said. 
Planes provide a good envi­ronment for spreading disease. Passengers are in close quarters and confined for hours, and multiple people may sit in the same seat between cleanings as the jet makes difl'erent stops. 
One way to limit the spread of disease is to force recirculated air through high-efficiency par­ticulate filters, which trap fungi 

exposed. Flight "We are taking all and germs. IlEPA ~rews have in­filters arc used on
the appropriate 

struetions to about three­rPport sick passen­measures to make fourths of all gnrs. sure that ifit's a commercial air­
Katlwrine And­planes, Federal
pandemic, we're 

rus, spokeswoman Aviation for thn Air prepared to Administration Transport respond." spokeswoman Association. which Alison Duquette n~prnsnnts major said.
Katherine Andrus 

airlines, said the "It's a standard industry is con­spokeswoman industry practice cnrrwd hut doesn't Air Transport for new aircrart," want lo overrnact. Association Duquette said. 
"We arP taking all tlw appropriate nwasures to makn sure that if it's a pandmnie, we're prepared to n~spond," slw said. 
Bird tlu gerwrally spreads to pPople through contaet with bird excretions. The fnar. though, is that it will mutate into a disease that sprnads from human to human. 
The disease is most prnvalent in Soutlwast Asia, to which only two U.S. airlinns fly their own platws -United and Northwest. But ollidals with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, airlitws and U.S. aviation offi­dals an~ kenping a dose eyn as tlw dis1~ase sprnads nlsnwhew. 
"Tiw best thing we always do in tlwsn situations is stay in rlosP touch with CDC and as S()(tn as wn lwar sonwthing, we
• 
Airlines also fol­
low CDC guide­lines calling for !light crew to separate a passenger with a contagious disease, if possible, and provide a surgical mask. Pilots, by law. must notify the nearest quarantine station and quarantine workers will arrangn for medieal assistance, notify health departments and work with the airline to makn sure the disease germs are killed, according to the CDC. 
"Flu is pretty easy to kill with disinfndant." Andrus said. 
An Orlando, Fla., company called AeroClavn has developed equipment that modifies tem­perature and humidity inside airplanes so tlw air kills small­pox, SAHS and bird flu. A giant white box and hose pump heat­ed air through an airplann's ventilation system for two hours, disinfecting parts of the plane that cleaning crews can't reach. 
Company founder Dr. Ronald Brown said the FAA is in the process of certifying the system. 
"When we started this two and a half years ago, people looked at us cross-eyed," Brown said. "SARS was just our two­minute warning. It showed how things can spread rapidly." 
Brown said he's unaware of any standard for plane cleanli­ness. Airline cleaners wipe off stains and spills, and mainte­nance workers deep dean them during heavy maintenance checks, but Brown said he does­n't know of any airlines that dis­infect seat belts, tray tables and overhead bins on a weekly basis. 
Since the SARS outbreak in 2003, the CDC has added nine more quarantine stations to intnrnational airports for a total of 17. CDC workers can meet airplanes from countries affect­ed by a disease and isolate any­one who shows symptoms. They can also tell anyone possibly exposed what to watch for and how to seek help. 
Flight crews were reminded that they must notify health olli­eials if a passenger shows suspi­cious symptoms. United Airlines spokeswoman Robin Urbanski said the airline has annual training for flight attendants on controlling infectious diseases and an airline doctor available around the dock. 
Passengers sometimes don't show disease symptoms while traveling but are diagnosed later. In those cases, the CDC traeks people who were exposed to the infected passenger. 
That turned out to be a chal­lenge during the SAHS epidem­ic, Andrus said, because so many wwple had to be contact­ed. 
Thn airlines and the CDC came up with a passenger loca­tor eard that can bn read by a machine. The CDC would direct airlines to distribute the card, most likely on flights coming from the part of the world where the disease is nndemic, Andrus said. 


Cell phones W"ill be used to track traffic 
Associated Press 
JEFFEHSON CITY, Mo. ­Driving to work, you notice the traffic beginning to slow. And because you have your cell phone on, the government senses the delay, too. 
A congestion alert is issued, automatically updating elec­tronic road signs and Web sites and dispatching text messages to mobile phones and auto dashboards. 
In what would be the largest project of its kind, the Missouri Department of Transportation is finalizing a contraet to moni­tor thousands of cell phones, using their movements to map real-time traffic conditions statewide on all 5,500 miles of major roads. 
It's just one of a number of initiatives to more intelligently manage traff'ic flow through wireless data collection. 
Officials say there's no Big Brother agenda in the Missouri project -the data will nimain anonymous, 
leaving no possi­

bility to track "It troubles me yellow and rnd to specific people because it does show block-by­from their drive­block whether
show this 
way to their des­vnhides are mov­tination. movement toward ing at or below But privaey using a technology the speed limits. advocates are As rush hour
to track people. " 
uneasy nonethe­started on a less. recent work day, 
"Even though Daniel Solove obsnrvers could its anonymous, professor watch as gnwn it's still omi­turned to yellow
George Washington 
nous, said and then red on
University
Daniel Solove, a roads !wading 
lot of' potential data poinl'i, and you can track data almost any­where on the whole (roadl sys­tem," said VaiPriP Briggs, pro­gram manager for transporta­tion operations at the Amoriean Association of State llighway and Transportation Oflkials. 
Although most nnw cell phones come equipped with Global Positioning Systnm capabilities that can pinpoint their exact locations, the track­ing technology usnd for trans­portation agencies does not depend on that. 
Instead, it takes the fn~quent signals that wireless phones send to towers and fi1llows the movement of' tho phones from one tower to another. Then it overlays that data with high­way maps to determine where the phones are and how fast they are moving. Lumping thousands of' thosn signals together can indicate traffic flow. 
A Dolean demonstration Web site developed for Baltimore 
uses various 
shades of' grnnn, 
privaey law pro­fessor at George Washington University and author of "The Digital Person." "It trou bios me, because it does show this movement toward using a tech­nolO!-,')' to traek people." 
Cell phone monitoring alroady is b~~ing used by trans­portation of'fieials in Balti­more, though not yet to n~lay traflic conditions to the publie. Similar projects are getting underway in Norfolk, Va., and a stretch of lntnrstate 75 between Atlanta and Macon, Ga. 
But the Miss-ouri projnct is by far the most aggressive ­tracking wireless phones across the whole stat<\ includ­ing in rural areas with low<~r traf'f'ie counts, and for tlw explicit purpose of relaying tlw information to other trawlers. 
In fact, it would be tho biggest systmn of' its kind in the world, said Hiehard Mudge, a vice president at I>elean Corp., the Canadian company that won the Missouri bid. 
The contraet is Pxpneted to be completed within snveral weeks, and a cell phone moni­toring system tested and imple­mentHd-within six months after that. The cell phone provider for Missouri hasn't bonn dis­closed, but DeJean uses data from Cingular Windoss LLC phones in the Baltimore proj­ect. 
Governments have had the ability to measure trartk vol­umes and speeds for years. They can embed sensors in pavement, or mount scamwrs and cameras along tho road. But those monitoring mnthods require the installation of equipment, whieh must be maintained, and can take only a snapshot or traflie at a partic­ular spot. 
In contrast, "almost everyone has a cell phone, so you hav1~ a out of' downtown. 
The Baltimoro project bngan this spring as a pilot program that monitors Cingular users over about I ,000 milns of' road, hut Maryland oflicials hope to evontually crnato a statnwidn version. (A Dnlean competitor. Atlanta-based AirSage Inc., has an agroement with Sprint Nextnl Corp. to monitor phmws lilr its projects in c;eorgia and Virginia. I 
Pete Hahn, dir<H:tor of tlw Missouri l>1~partnwnt of' Transportation, would like to make a similar Web site avail­able to Missouri motorists. and to post nstimatnd travnl limns on nleetronic road signs. 
Thn Missouri and Maryland plans also assunw that tlw eon­traetor will marknt morn dntailnd information to tlw pri­vate sPrtor -autonmkers that offer onboard navigation sys­tems, c1~11 phone rompani<~s. shipping businnssns or nwdia that broadcast rush-hour traf'­lie reports. 
The private sndor marknting helps drivn down the stah~s· cost. Missouri expects to spPnd less than $:~ million a year on the service, Hahn said. although the nxad price won't be known until tlw contrart is finalized. Maryland is spending just $1.5 million, although tlw entire Baltimon~ projnd costs morn than $5 million, said Mike Zeznski. dirertor of n~al­time traf'fic operations for tlw Mary Ian d De partnw n t of Transportati<m. 
By eontrast, the San Francisco Bay anm spnnl. about $35 million ovnr snveral ynars to install roadsidn scannnrs and dnvelop computnr programs, Web sites and call <:enters for a n~al-tinw trarlie snrvi<:1~ basPd on electronic toll passPs, said Handy HPnl'ichl<~r. a spok<~snum for the region's Metropolitan Transportation Commission. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 18 
Friday, October 14, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 

Earning the mystique 
The unparalleled NBC contract. The fervent subway alumni. The insatiable ESPN talking heads. There's no question Notre Dame football is used to being in the national spotlight. But does the program still deserve it? 
As thousands of fans pour into South Bend, tickets hawk for $2,000 and Lee Corso sets up shop under the gaze of Touchdown Jesus this weekend, that's a valid question to con­sider. The flood of attention is no surprise with the No. 1 Trojans in town -but in recent years, the Notre Dame­USC rivalry has been a decidedly one-sided affair. O Jhe 
Three consecutive 31-point embarrassments left userver 
the Irish hanging their heads, and this year's end. Southern California team, just as talented as its That's no knock on Jenkins. It's no knock on
Editorial 

n't been solely a football factory for 30 years, and the nation 
knows it. And yet. And yet campus is swarming with tourists, ticket scalpers and 
television cameras. And yet the recruits are signing up and stop­ping by at a frightening pace. And yet a win Saturday would result in more euphoria and exultation than any academic dis­tinction could ever inspire. 
Put it this way: cheap motel rooms weren't going for $499 a night on University President Father John Jenkins' recent inauguration week­
predecessors, poses a formidable challenge. Yet analyst after analyst is picking the Irish Saturday, drawing on a collection of intangibles that's most frequently packaged as the "Notre Dame mystique." 
While each tweaks the definition of that mystique to his or her liking, it generally comes down to the unknown-Catholic-school, traveling-Rockne-draws-recognition, Navy-bails-us-out, Hesburgh-expands-from-just-a-football-school narrative. Cue the black and white photo montage and "Here Come the Irish." 
One problem: Mystique doesn't win football games. 
And without a national championship since 1988, Notre Dame is moving further and further away from the concrete accom­plishments that gave its mystique weight. Given that gap, it's entirely understandable that the first numbers many now high­light to describe the University are no longer seven Heisman tro­phies and 11 national titles, but a top 20 U.S. News and World Report ranking and a 1379 average SAT score. Notre Dame has-academics, Catholicism, residential tradition or 
any of Notre Dame's other areas of distinction. It's just an acknowledgment that -for now at least -no mat­ter what the team's record, Notre Dame football still uniquely galvanizes a national audience. 
Whether that audience has infinite patience for another national title is anyone's guess. But to prove the program deserves the hype surrounding this weekend, Notre Dame foot­ball has to be more than a tradition that runs deep in the University's veins. While the present can never match the past, it can certainly do some catching up -and coach Charlie Weis' attempts to build a proud, winning team and cohesive, intimi­dating fan base are a definite start. 
Creating a present deserving of the glory heaped on the past will not be easy -but that challenge is far preferable to discov­ering what would happen to Notre Dame if the football mystique ran out. 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chie£ Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
~tiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obstrvtr (USPS 599 2·4000} is: publ~hed Monday through Friday c:xcept during exam and vacation periods. A subscription 10 The Ob~tvt'r is: $100 for one academic year; $55 for one semcmer. 
The Observer is published at; POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send addrrn corrections w: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556·0779 Thr Obsetvet 
Periodit:al postage paid ;tr Noue Dame 1~0. IX>~t 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 Sl)uth Dining Hall 
Nom Damc,lN 46556-0779 
The Observer i~ J member ofth~ Al>Mx:iatcd Prru. All reproduction rights arc 
rc:~rvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Katie Perry Matt Puglisi Mary Kate Ken Fowler 
Malone Chris Khorey Kelly Meehan Dan Murphy Jenny Hames Scene 

Viewpoint Chris McGrady Sarah Falvey Illustrator Graphics Robin Fallon Kelly MacDonald 
Notre Da111e and USC: The perfect stor111 
It seems as if the entire sporting world has descended upon South Bend this weekend for the matchup between No. 1 University of Southern California and the ninth-ranked Fighting Irish tomorrow. 
Some in the media  
have been quick to  
point out that Notre  
Dame has wallowed  
in mediocrity for the  
last decade. They  
have predicted that  
the Trojans will win  
in a blowout, and  
Mollythey question Acker 
whether the intense  
hype surrounding the game is warranted.  Nobody Likes a  
For all the nay-sayers  Dumb Blonde  
out there, here's a lit­ 

tle crash course as to why it might be a good idea to hold onto to your ticket to tomorrow's game. 
First, Notre Dame football is back. To be sure, it is true that the football pro­gram has been dormant for more tha.n 10 years. (In fact, since Lou Holtz left the Irish sideline, it seems as if we have won little more than a handful of coin-tosses and a few games against Navy.) However, things are different this season. We come into tomorrow's game with a competent head coach who has transformed a sput­tering offense into a well-oiled machine that can move the ball and score at will. Unlike our recent encounters with USC, our players will take the field knowing that they have coaches who can match wits with our opponents and exploit their weaknesses. Throw in the fact that Coach Weis had an extra week to prepare for the Trojarrs, and it seems like a given that the Irish will be ready for battle tomor­row. 
Second, USC comes in toting a 27 -game winning streak, the nation's longest. As we know, Notre Dame has traditionally 
OBSERVER POLL 

What are you looking forward to most about USC weekend? 
a. 
Pep rally in the stadium 

b. 
Tailgating 


c. 
College Gameday on campus 

d. 
The game 



*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 876 1>ll>CI. 
been a place where winning streaks go to die. In 1953, the Irish ended Oklahoma's 4 7 game streak, which remains the longest winning-streak in college football history. In 1988, the Miami Hurricanes entered Notre Dame Stadium having won 36 straight regular season games. After a hard-fought 31-30 Irish victory, the Canes' streak, as well as their No. 1 rank­ing, were a thing of the past. The history of the Irish snapping opponents' winning streaks is not limited to the gridiron. In 1974, the basketball team ended perhaps the most famous streak in all of college sports when it beat another team from Los Angeles, UCLA, and halted the Bruins' winning streak at 88 games. 
Third, and most importantly, this is Notre Dame and USC, one of college foot­ball's oldest and greatest rivalries. As leg­end has it, the annual contest between the Irish and the Trojans can be attrib­uted to Mrs. Knute Rockne. After Notre Dame played a road game at Nebraska in 1925, a USC employee told Mrs. Rockne that she would surely enjoy a trip to sunny Los Angeles more than a trek to Lincoln for an away game. Mrs. Rockne agreed, and she talked Knute into this idea. (Perhaps that is where we get the adage "the woman behind the man.") Thus began college football's greatest intersectional rivalry. 
The Notre Dame-USC rivalry has become legendary not only because of the coaches and players who have taken the field against each other, but also for what it represents. The USC-Notre Dame rivalry pits titan against titan, tradition against tradition, legend against legend: Hollywood vs. the Heartland; Tommy Trojan vs. the Leprechaun; Yell Leaders vs. the Irish Guard; Fight On vs. The Victory March. It is unlike any other game in college football. 
This is why the atmosphere will undoubtedly be electric this weekend. 

lSubmit aLetter I Ito the Editor at 
·~ 
·www.ndsmcobserver.com 


Tickets are going for thousands of dol­lars, and a room at the Saint Mary's Inn costs more than a suite at the Ritz. Even tonight's pep rally has enjoyed a build-up unlike any other in my four years in South Bend. Not only because it will take place in the Stadium rather than the JACC, but also because of the countless rumors circulating. First I heard that Bon Jovi is going to surprise everyone with a concert. Now Bruce Springsteen will apparently play. This rumor is legit ... so people say. Bruce has a concert Thursday in Chicago and one Milwaukee Saturday. What rock n' roll star wouldn't want to come to South Bend on his Friday night off? Don't forget that the Boss and Coach Weis are both from Jersey. Clearly the rumors must be true. 
It has also been circulating that former head coach Lou Holtz will be speaking at the pep rally. Joe Montana is also slated to speak, as is Rudy, Father Hesburgh, Tim Brown, Dick Vitale, Digger Phelps and Regis. (I even heard that Touchdown Jesus will be stepping down from the wall of the Library to address the crowd.) 
It doesn't matter whether all these rumors turn out to be true. We should enjoy this weekend for the unique experi­ence it presents. Tomorrow will not only be our biggest game this season, but also our biggest game since 1993. With a rejuvenated Notre Dame team, a 27­game Trojan winning streak, and the greatest intersectional rivalry in football, a perfect storm has arrived in South Bend this weekend. Now it's just a matter of Shaking Down the Thunder. 
Molly Acker is a junior communication and humanistic studies double major at Saint Mary's. She can be contacted at acke6 758@saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"An impossible dream is only impossible if all you do about it is dream. " 
Lou Holtz former Notre Dame football coach 

THE 0HSERVER 




IEWPOINT
hiday, October 14, 2005 page 19 
Don't forget the children of Northern Uganda 
What have tlw children to do with it'? Ivan, in Fyodor Dostoevsky's elassic novel The Brothers Karamazov, asks, "II' all must sutTer to pay l'or eternal harmony, what have children to do with it'?" Visiting the war­torn people of' north­Michael ern Uganda, we found Poffenberger ourselvns sharing and Ivan's philosophkal Peter l'ury. I low can such Quaranto innocnnt suffering of childrnn persist with Guest little cry l'rom our Columnists own communities'? 
For the last 19 years. a war has raged in northern Uganda, forgotten by most of' the world. Sinec 1 9H7, a rnbnl group known as the l.ord 's Besistance Army ( LHA), led by cult lnadnr Joseph Kony, has been oper­ating out of' soutlwrn Sudan and fight­ing for power against the government of Uganda. 
In this terrible war, children havo suf­fnrml tlw most. Kidnapped by the LBA, tens of thousands of children havn !wen 
kidnapped, used by the LHA as child soldiers and sexual slaves. Their stories are harrowing and tell of' an evil unimaginable. 
Yet, for those children who eseape abduction, their lives remain a living hell. The LRA typieally hunts and preys upon ehildren at night. To cope with this horror, children are nightly forced to brave treacherous weather eondi­tions and unsafe roads and walk -by themselves-to towns as far as ten miles away. There, they sleep in makeshift camps and on street corners, only to wake at dawn to return to their homes and schools. This tragic trend, called "night commuting," has mush­roomed and currently as many as 50,000 children walk each evening. 
At the end of 2004, Mr. Jan Egeland, United Nations Undersecretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs, declared the crisis in northern Uganda, "tho world's biggest neglected humanitarian crisis." 
On Oct. 22-23, tognthnr wn are going to changn that. In morn than 40 cities around the world, people will walk with 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Saint Mary's College: Separate and proud 

I write today because many Saint Mary's students, myself indudml, have notieml a growing bite to The Observer's occasion­al jokes about the Saint Mary's and Holy Cross student bodies. Wn at Saint Mary's do not take ourselvns so seriously that we fail to recognize the longstanding tradition of gentle back-and-forth teasing that has gone on throughout our joint history, and this lnttnr is not nwant to express some great outrage at any particu­lar jokn. It is meant, rathnr, to darify that all joking aside, tlw women of Saint Mary's are proud of our history, tradition, mis­sion. and accomplishments, different though they are than thosn of our morn well-known neighbor. 
Many of us dwsn after careful deliberation to attend Saint Mary's, and to he a part of an institution dedieated exclusively to tlw Catholic ndueation of young womnn. We celnbrate the courage and the faith of' the Sistnrs of the lloly Cross who, whiln accompanying Father Sorin to assist him in the tasks necessary to found University of Notre Damn, took up as their own mission the founding of an institution for womnn, and who today continue tiH~ir ministries l'or justice on four continents. Many of us, like many Notre Dame students, chose to continuo a family tradition hy attending tlw College, and many of us continue to haVf~ family ties across tho road. In my own family, I followed in the tradition of my mother and my aunts as a Saint Mary's student, and my father, my uncles, and my sister, all of whom hold Notre Damn degrees, eagnrly wnleomed me to the Notre Damn/Saint Mary's family. That Notrn Dame/Saint Mary's family is a real one, though likn all families, it is composed of different and independ­nnt charactnrs with independent goals and achievements, tind togetlwr in community. 
Thn Saint Mary's student body is one of good humor, but it is also onn lilled with pride in our own hnritagn, separate from, but insepambly bound to, that of Notre Dame. We will gladly aecept tnasing, as long as it remains gentle back-and-forth teasing among frinnds. We hopn that The Observnr, "Thn Indnpcndent Nnwspapnr Snrving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's," truly serves both campusns and our neighbors at lloly Cross College by hold­ing firm to tho conviction that any teasing worth printing must be horn out of our tradition of mutual respect and affnction. 
Kellye Mitros 
SCJliOf 
Saint Mary's srudenr body president Oct. 12 

the childrnn of northern Uganda to demand the attention and action of the international community to end this war. Here at Notre Dame, we are organizing a walk on Sunday, Oct. 23 that will begin at 3 p.m. in Legends parking lot and end at Main Building. The "GuluWalk Day" will bn the largest mobilization in history calling for peace in northern Uganda. 
Our own government here in the United States has a special role to play in ending this war, especially given our historic relationship with the govern­mont of Uganda. Through financial, logistical and political assistance, we can bring visibility and support to the tireless work of Betty Bigombe, the chief peace negotiator, to catalyze a peace process. Through diplomatic pressure, we can hold the Government of Uganda accountable to the peace procnss, human rights standards and military professionalization. Finally, we can provide much-nended support to civilian protection and humanitarian relinl'. 
Witnessing this gross assault on the integrity of' God's creation, we cannot be silent. For far too long, the ehildrnn of northern Uganda have been forgot­ten. Together, we are working to chango that and to demand a foreign policy of hope that prioritizns and pro­tects human life whnrnver it may be. Together with pnople all over the world on Oct. 22-23. we will raise our voices with the children of northern Uganda to ask our leaders to make human life in northern Uganda a priority. We ask you to join us. 
Peter Quaranto is the director of the Uganda Con.f1ict Action Network and a senior international peace studies major. Michael /'(~[fenberger is the asso­ciate director of the Africa Faith and Justice Network and a graduate l~{ the Class of2005. Contact Peter at 
pquarant@nd. edu or Michael at 
m pofl(m lwrger@)uga ndacan. org 
The tJiews expressed in this column are those (~{the authors and not tH'('l's­sarily those of The Olnwnwr: 
Intelligent design yields confusion 
There arn a few mattnrs which should be One eould got tlw imp1·nssion that.. for that elarilind about the issues raised by Professor matter, that thnrn is a "eompnl.ing thnory" of Charles Hicn in his Oct. 13 Viewpoint column "intnllignnt design." As to tlw advocacy ol' ("Evolution and the nvidence of reason"] con­"intnllignnt design," not only does it avoid any enrning the teaehing of Pvolution. and the trial specification of "intelligent designers," it dons taking place concerning Dovnr. Penn. not say exactly what it is that has bnen 
As Cardinal Schoenborn recently said, "dosignnd," nor when, where, why, or how. "Without a doubt, Darwin pulled off quite a And there is little prospnet for any invnstiga­feat with his main work and it remains one of tion into those, or any otlwr. basic questions. the very great works of intellectual history." Some of tho advocatns evnn accept much of 
One could get the imprnssion from Rice's evolutionary biology. essay that there is some connection with the The only result of bringing up "intnlligent current popular advocacy of so-called design" for K-12 biology students would snmn "Intelligent Design" and faith in one's Creator. to bn confusion. Confusion about biology, eon­This connection is something that its advocates fusion about God and confusion about the rnla­have been trying to avoid. Several of them tionship between sdencn and faith. have made a point of saying that their concept If anyone is interestnd in the currnnt ease in of "designers" is indistinguishable from "space Dover, I reeommnnd rnading the transcripts ol' aliens," just to take one of their examples. testimony and other matnrial which is being 
One could get the impression that there is a posted online at: "controversy" in biology regarding "Intelligent http://www2.neseweb.org/wp/. The testimony Design." However, the scientific literature is of John Haught, professor ol' thnology at next-to-nonexistent. Of course, as with every Georgetown, may be partkularly intnrnsting. active finld of study, there are areas of investi­gation. But the existence of open questions in Tom Scharle biol()gy, or any otlHJr sdence, does not add a alumnus bit of support to "design," or any other sup­Class nf I 960 posed alternative. Oct. 1.3 

Ignoring the deeper texture 
Many ol' the important moral issues of our day arc embed­ded in a complex dynamic of competing ethical forces and weights that revolve around questions of faet, faith, rea­son, interpretation and con­science, in a broadly and spir­itually human sense. Moral issues are also wide in com­pass. Just in the context of human life for instance, they range from abortion, to the death penalty, to war, to self defcnsn, to the quality of life of the young and the poor. This, in brief, was my under­standing of the essnntial point that Dean Mark Hoehn made in the New Yord Times op-ed piece of a year ago. 
This brings me to the recent op-ed contribution in the defense of the right to life by Anthony J. Lauingnr in The Observnr of Wndnesday, Oct. 12, "Of Ray Siegfried, Mark Roche and the child we once were." Any cogent appeal that grows out of a sense of pas­sion, conviction, insight, fair­ness and informed reason deserves respect and nvalua­tion. Most unfortunatnly, Lauinger's effort fell short of this standard. Unable to resist the tnmptation to takn aim at Dean Hoehn's reflection, he zeros in on a single sentence, "Those who view abortion as the most signifieant issue in this campaign may well want to supplement thnir abstract desirn for moral rnetitude with a morn realistic foeus on how best to ensur<~ that fewer abortions take place ... and pulls the trigger on "abstract desire for moral rectitude." What Lauinger engages in is a quintessnntial example of a 
general and troublesome 
development in our country. It 
is a virus that has infected our 
civie and political discourse. It 
is visible in the mndia daily, 
and is a practice nmbeddnd in 
tho "sound bite" and thn "photo op." It consists of tak­
ing a diffnrnntiatnd discussion on a topic, narrowing in on a snntnncn and a phraSI\ spilling bile on a single franw, 
and ignoring or misundnr­
standing the deeper tl~xtunL This is precisely what this 
dnfnndnr of the good and the just dons in his piocn and tho 
large bold "Mark Hoehn" of its title. 
Alexander Hahn professor Mathematics Ocr. U 

-------~-~-----~~---------, 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 20 
Friday, October 14, 2005 

GRAHAM EBETSCH/Observer Graphic 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 

By MOLLY GRIFFIN Assistant Scene Editor 
Many people work their entire lives to win awards in the enter­tainment industry. In Hollywood, the Oscar, the Golden Globe and the Emmy are king, while on Broadway the Tony rules and in the media world everyone strives for a Pulitzer. 
Few people posses the talent and diversity to win all of these awards, but every once in a while a rare individual comes along who manages to sweep all of them. Marvin Hamlisch is one of these people. While his name may not be immediately reeognizable to the average person, he has had a major impact on popular music with his extensive and diverse career. The writer/conductor/com poser/per­former has worked in all areas of entertainment, and he will be performing some of his repertoire at Notre Dame tonight at 9 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall. 
Hamliseh, the child of an accor­dionist. was the youngest person admitted to .Julliard at the age of seven. He also earned his B.A. from Queens College in New York. 
I-famliseh 's career has spanned many genres and included work in Broadway, film and on stage. Ilis prolific career is not only notable for its diversity, but also for its success and the amount of recognition it has attained. 
Broadway is just one of the 


Marvin Hamlisch is known not only for his musical~ director. Hamlisch will be playing an array of music at 
areas where llamlisch has M • found success, and shows that arvtn he has composed include "They're Playing Our Song," Tickets: $54forregti 
"The Goodbye Girl," "Sweet forfaculty/staff/seni Smell of Success" and dents "Imaginary Friends." lie won a Venue: Leighton Co Pulitzer Prize for his work on Showtime: Friday at the· musical play "A Chorus Line" in 1975. 
Hollywood is a difficult place cess, but llamlis to find work, let alone find sue-to find a lot of b( 
'The Way We Were' av< 
By GRACE MYERS Scene Critic 
"The Way We Were" is, on the sur­face, typical romance movie: gor­geous guy meets gorgeous girl. But don't be fooled by this or the beach scene on the DVD cover -it's defi­nitely not a typieal chick !lick. 
This 1973 movie, direeted by Sydney Pollack, was highly suecnss­ful. It received two Acadmny Awards for Best Music and Best Song, as a result of Marvin Hamlisch's superb compositions. It was also nominated in four categories, including Best Actress. The unique, striking charac­ters, the turbulent politieal setting and highly original music make "The Way We Were" unforgettable. Its popularity has seen a recent resur­gence ber~ause of Sex and the City's imitation of the movie in portraying Mr. Big and Carrie's melancholy goodbye scene in the second sea­son's finale. 
"The Way We Were" begins at the end of World War II during the char­acters' college years. Barbara Streisand plays Katie Morosky, a striking Jewish girl who can't control her zeal for liberal activism. She is initially nauseated by the beautiful, all-American athlete with an unex­pected gift for fiction writing Hubble Gardiner, played by Robert Redford. But he begins one of his short sto­ries, "Like his country, things had come too easily for him," which Katie strongly agrees with. Despite her intense political beliefs and Hubble's privileged background, the with each other. 
Eight years later, the two unexpectedly reunite in a night­club in New York City. Katie is a worker at a left-wing radio sta­tion and Hubble is a military officer. Of course, the two con­quer their differences, Katie's political ambitions and Hubble's contemptible elitist network of friends, and fall madly in love. They marry and Hubble pub­lishes his first novel, which fails, 

The Way1 
Director: Sydney Pol Writer: Arthur Laure 
Starring: Barbra St Redford, Bradford and Patrick O'Neal Venue: Browning C Showtimes: Friday 
sending him in 
sion. They tt 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Friday, October 14, 2005 
page 21 
nd in film and beyond 



Photo courtesy of movies.yahoo.com 
llollywood so that he can pursue a r:arne r in seren n-wri ti ng. llnspitn his grnat charm and lwauty, lluhbln is a wnak charac­ter. drif'ting in and out of the strong und independent Katie's lifn. lin jumps at the chanen his f'rir~nd givns him to sell out, working in Hollywood during tho trouhlt~some McCarthy nra. 
The couple adjusts to their 
nnw homo and llubhlo becomes sonwwhat succnssful, but the intense hunt for communists in 

songs like "I've Finally Found Someone" from "The Mirror has Two Faces," "Surprise, Surprise" from "A Chorus Line," and tho Carty Simon-sung, "Nobody Does it Better" from "The Spy Who Loved Me." lin won Osr:ars for his work on tho score and title song for the Barbara Strnisand movie," Tho Way We Were," and for his adap­tation of Scott Joplin's music for the Hobert Bodford film, "The Sting." The song, "The 1\ntnrtainnr," from thn film is one of llamlisch's most wnll-known. 
lin workml as thn musical direc­tor and arranger for Barbara Strnisand's tour of the U.S. and 1\ngland in 1<JIJ4. lin rncnivnd two 1\mmys for his work on the televi­sion spneial based on this tour, "Barbara Strnisand: The Conenrt." lin also served as musical director and arranger for hor Millennium COIH'.Orts. 
llamlisch works as the l'rinc:ipal Pops Conductor with the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra and the National Symphony Orchestra in Washington, D.C., whieh is the l'irst time a person has hnld this position with tho National Symphony. 
llamlisch will bn pnrforming a variety of songs from his exten­sive rnpertoirn tonight. Tiekets are available for $54 dollars for regular admission, $46 for f'acul­ty/staf'li'seniors and $15 for stu­dents. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 

II ollywood brw.onws trou blnsonw to Katie, who begins a crusade in dofnnse of tho Hollywood I0. ;\t tlw IILIAC mnnting, Katie lights for lwr principles and for fronclom of spooch. llubbln, however, cloosn't want to hnlp hnr or bn part of' thn trial in any way, lwl in vi ng that political lighting doosn 't lwl p any­orw gnt anywlwrn. Thny cannot rnsolvn tlwir diiTnrnnces again and romn to tlw undorstanding that tlwy are too dif'f'nn~nt to stay tognthnr. Thny split. up without try­ing to rnsolvn anything, knowing that tlwy can't rhangn n<u·.h otlwr. 
"Tlw Way WP Wnrn" is a lwauti­f'ul romaneo story. It is sonwwhat disappointing that thn couple dons not stay togothnr, but is morn rrml­istir and romantic in that tlwir lovo is so strong that they romain fond of eaeh otlwr. nvon though they arn not tognthnr. Tho grnatost far:d of tlw movie is Barbra Streisand's fantastic acting. She is liorcoly enorgotic and intelligent, while also feminine and vulnera­bln. 
Tho movin confronts a lot of issues, which is admirablo, but not completely successful. The politi­cal implications presented and the portrayal of an impossible love are large tasks for a romance story to deal with. At times they seem a bit foreod. However, the superb aeting by Streisand, incredible music and intelligent and original writing rmlnmn these llaws. 
Contact Grace Myers at gmyersl@nd.edu 
NOTRE DAME'S BEST... 
BY OBSERVER PHOTO STAFF 
The only bridge on campus effortlessly spans the gap &om mathematics to international studies, shading this study spot sandwiched between Hurley and Hayes-Healy. 



h hus ma11agr~d h with his work 
Photo courtesy of newsmanager.commpartner.com 
on musir: for films. lie has worked on scorns for morn than 40 movies, including "Sophie's Choice," "Ordinary People," "Tiw Swimnwr," "Three Men and a Baby," "kr~ Castles," "Take tlw Morwy and Bun," "Bananas" nnd "Snvn tlw Tiger." lin nven wrote musir. for tlw Jamns Bond film. "Tiw Spy Who Lowd Mn." llamlisch was nominated for 
Osrars for Best Original Song for 


BUILD YOUR OWN 

EXTRAS One Topping 7. 99 11.99 13.99 
wings breadsticks Additional Topping 1.00 1.50 1. 75 buffalo or barbeque 
cheesesticks chicken strips 
Coca-Cola® salads
BETTER TOPPINGS Products 
Ham Beef Green Peppers Pepperoni Anchovies Jalapeno Peppers Spicy Italian Extra Cheese Banana Peppers 
Sausage 

Mushrooms Pineapple Sausage 
Onions Grilled Chicken Bacon 
Black Olives Fresh Sliced Tomatoes Tomatoes 

l;riday, Ocrobt:r 14, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
N BA PRESEASON 
Hayes scores 19 as Wizards beat San Antonio 
Pacers beat Jazz in Artest's first home game back; Nets blast Bobcats behind Jefferson; Billups leads Pistons over Bucks 
Chicory Cafe A French Quarter Style Coffee House 
Featuring beignets and cafe au fait 
Corner of Jefferson and Michigan in downtown South Bend 
• 
Gourmet Coffee • Beignets 

• Espresso Drinks • Sandwiches 
(~ICO~Vj
• 
Gourmet Tea • Muffins and Bagels 

• 
Italian Sodas • Jambalaya/Soup 

• 
Chocolates and Gifts • Gelato/Sorbetto


I 
I I 

*Wireless Internet Available 574-234-1141 : 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------' 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Fall 2006, SPRING 2007, AY 2006-7 University College Dublin 
INFORMATION MEETING with 
Kevin Whelan, Director Keough-ND Center, Dublin 
Friday, October 14, 2005 
3:00pm 129 DeBartolo 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMHI£R 15, 2005 FOR FALL, SPRING, ANI> ACADEMIC YEAR 2006-7 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 
doors and sitting in that locker room _ every place in here has some memories," Duncan said. "It's fun to be back hero in that respect, but I could never have imagined nine years later com­ing full circle, being back in here with everything I've done." 
Caron Butler added 14 points for Washington, and Antonio Daniels and Awvee Storey each had 12. 
Beno Udrih led the Spurs with 20 points, Sharrod Ford addnd 13 and Scan Marks 10. 
Down 85-81 with four min­utes remaining, Washington went on a 10-point run, cappnd by Peter Hamos' free throw that put the Wizards up 91-85 with less than a minute to play. 
San Antonio rallied, cutting the Wizards' lead to 92-91 otT Jawad Williams' 3-point play with 9.3 seconds left. Donell Taylor hit the lirst of two free throws to push Washington's lead back to two points, only to miss the second. 
The Spurs had a chance to tic the game. but Billy Thomas stripped Melvin Sanders of' the ball, then hit a pair of frne throws with 4. 7 seconds remaining to seal the game. 
Pacers 99, Jazz 92 
Hookie Sarunas Jasikevicius made Hon Artest's first home appearance a whole lot sweet­er. 
Jasikevicius, a 29-year-old Lithuanian who played college ball at Maryland, had 13 of his 18 points in the fourth quarter Thursday night as the Indiana Pacers came from behind and bnat the Utah Jazz. 
Artest, playing his first game at home since he was suspend­ed following the brawl with Detroit fans last November, had 23 points, but Indiana still trailed by seven after a basket by Utah rookie Deron Williams early in the final period. 
Two free throws each by Artest and Austin Croshere made it 77-74, then after Williams scored again, two more free throws by Croshere and a 3-pointer by Jasikevicius tied the game. There was one more tie before a basket by Stephen Jackson put the Pacers in front for good. 
Jasikevicius and Jackson, who finished with 15 points, combined for 18 of Indiana's final 20 points. 
The Jazz {1-1) pulled with in 96-92 on a 3-pointer by Williams with 32 seconds to go, but Jasikevicius scored the final basket and free throw to clinch the win for the Pacers (1-1). 
Williams, the third overall pick in the draft, led Utah with 17 points. 
Artest, who missed the final 73 regular-season games and all of the playoffs because of his suspension by the lnague, was the focus of Indiana's ofl'ense at the beginning. lie scored thn Pacnrs' first two baskets and took live shots in the lirst four minutes of' the game. llis third bask1~t put Indiana up I 0-5 midway through tlw opnning pnriod. 
Thn .Jazz managed only three free throws in a strnteh of' almost night minutes bnforn a basknt by Mnhmnt Okur cut Indiana's lnad to 14-10 at thn end of' tho quarter. 
With reserves in tho game, Utah canw back in tho second quarter, tying the game scvnn times before two free throws by Williams put the Jazz up 35-:n with under two minutes left in the half. Indiana regaim~d a 40­37 lead at the half, but Utah took control in the third quarter and had its biggest lead at 73­65 early in the final pnriod. 

For thn second straight game, Indiana was without Jermainn O'Neal because of a bruise to his right thigh. 
Nets 95, Bobcats 76 
Hichard Jof'l'orson and Jason Kidd scored 10 points apieee to lead the Nnw Jorsoy Nets over tho shorthandnd Charlotte Bobeats in a preseason game Thursday night. 
Tho Nets, who hnld tho Bobcats to 31 pnrcont shooting, won dnspite committing 22 turnovnrs. 
Antonio Mooking scor<~d 14 points and follow rookie Haymond Felton addod 10 for Charlotte. 
Tho Bobeats were without six playors, ineluding Emnka Okafor, who missed his soeond straight ganw with a sprained right anklo. Starting eonter Primoz Brnzec (shin). Melvin Ely (ankle), Soan May (knen), Matt Carroll (bicep) and Alan Anderson (kneel also sat out. 
The Bobcats were so thin in the front court that undral'tnd rookie l>'or Fischer started at center. lie had six points on 2­of-9 shooting. 
The Nets were without for­ward Marc Jar.kson (strairwd groin), Jason 
Collins (knee) and Jnff Mcinnis (strained bar.k). 
With Jaekson out, 38-year-old Clifford Hobinson started at power forward. He hit a 3­pointer in an 11-0 run that gave the Nets a 61-45 lead with 5:11 left in the third quarter. 
Kidd blew past Felton with a crossover dribble and his nnsu­ing layup made it 65-49 with 2:5(, left in the third. 
New Jersey led by as many as 20 points in the final period and Charlotte eoach Bernie Bickerstall' was ejeeted for pick­ing up two technical fouls with 
2:09 left. 
Pistons 95, Bucks 88 
Chauncey Billups scored 16 points and Darko Milieic added 10 points and nine rebounds helping the Detroit Pistons beat the Milwaukee Bueks in a pre­season game Thursday night. 
Tayshaun Prince addnd 10 points for Detroit while Ben Wallace had eight points and 13 rebounds. 
Maurice Williams lnd the Bueks with 19 points, while for­mer Miehigan State star Charlie Bell, who last played in the NBA in 2002, had 12. 
Milwaukee was missing three key players to injury _ Miehaol Hedd (groin), T.J. Ford (hand) and Joe Smith (knee). Andrew Bogut, thn top piek in this year's draft, started and scored three points in 21 minutes. 
lie had six n~hounds and four fouls. 
Detroit led early with its starters on the l'loor, but. Milwaukne took a 44-39 half­time lead against the Pistons reserves. 
-
Billups hit three 3-pointl~rs early in the third quarter to lwlp tlw Pistons lead (, 7-(14 at. poriod's ond. 
AP 

Detroit Pistons guard Chauncey Billups drives past Mo Williams of the Milwaukee Bucks Thursday. The Pistons won, 95-88. 
Associated Press 
Jarvis Hayes scored 19 points and the Washington Wizards spoiled San Antonio star Tim Duncan's college homecoming with a 95-91 exhibition victory over the Spurs Thursday night. 
Duncan, a three-time All­American and national player of' the year at Wake Forest, was honored by city ol'f'icials on "Tim Duncan Day." lie received a key to the city, and had Deacon Drive, which runs by Lawrence Joel Veterans Memorial Coliseum, renamed "Tim Duncan Drive." 
However, Duncan struggled from the start, not scoring his first points until the 3:06 mark of the second quarter off a short, one-handed jumper from the baseline. lie played just 23 minutes, and finished with four points and 13 rebounds. 
"Just walking through thesn 
-
page 24 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday,October 14, 2005 





-
Mishawaka/South Bend 
Univel"itv f'ilrk MJII 
rloc.lled in the Fond Courll 
(574) 243-8016 

The amount of music your ROKR El can hold depends on the compression rate of your songs and the amount of media stored on your phone. The Motorola ROKR El is aproduct of Motorola, Inc. Motorola and the Stylized Mlogo are registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. All other product or service names are the property of their respective owners. ©Motorola, Inc. 2005. TM &© 2005 Apple. The iTunes and iTunes logo are trademarks of Apple. By using the iTunes software you are agreeing to the software licenses in this package. Cingular and the graphic 1con are trademarks of Cingular Wireless LLC. Coverage not available mall areas. ©2005 Cingular Wireless. All rights reserved. 
Friday, October 14, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish lament road trip, ready to face DePaul 
By TOM DORWART 
.~port., Writer 
With all tlw buzz surrounding Notrn IJamP 's highly-ant.iri patPrl l'oot hall ganw against unbnaton USC this Saturday. Irish vol111yball roadr l>PbbiP Brown was eom­piPtP!y horwst.-sh1's disappoint­Pd !'or lwr playors. disappointPd hl'l'aUSI' thPy Will not gpt to PX)JI'­ril'll('l' tlw hypP ol' SU('h a hugn li llltball Wl'oknnd. 
"II' I had my ('hoicP. I'd ratlwr bn lwrP," slw said, n•li•rTing to lwr dPsin• to play at honw ratlwr than on tlu• road this wnPklmd. "I just think it's a wry nxcit.ing thing to lm a part ol', and I !i1nl badly that WI' won't lw lwrn. I think that gamns that haw that. murh on thn lirw -national PxposurP -to lw on campus fill' a ganw liko that., I was horn in '1H wlwn !;lorida Stat.o was hm·o, so it's rPally fun to lm a part of'. 
"So il' I had my rhoien I'd rathnr hP lwrP to lot thP Ivollnyhalll tnam nxJwrinnro that.." 
But don't gnt hor wrong-hnr tn<un is st.ill liwusnd on winning iL'> 2 p.m. voiiPyball match at lkl'aul Saturday. Only, artPr thP match. Brown plans on building sonw oll'­court tnam rhnmistry. 
"I think we're going to try to get to a placP as soon as wn can af'tpr our matrh, b1~causn we play at two as wdl, so wn'll Pml up going to sonwplacn in downtown Chicago," slw said. "So wn can watrh as much w.; wn can on TV." 
OncP again, tlw Irish do not know as much a bout tlwir oppo­nnnt as tlwy'd likn to. llnPaul is in its l'irst ynar in thn Big East Conlim~ncn and has not playnd too dillirult of' a sdwduln. Brown, as usual, says lwr tPam must simply b1~ iL'inll'. And, shn says, gdting by a young but hungry Dd'aul tnam quickly would b1~ a bonus. 
"I think thn kny li1r thn match is playing r·nally wnll on our side of' tlw nnt," shn said. "I think thcy'vp Itlw Blun Dmnonsl strugglnd a lit­tin hit in thn eonl'ornnen. 
"Wp have to pass well and dnlimdwnll." 
No. 10 Notre Danw (14-1, 5-0 Big l~ast) is on a snvnn-match win­ning stn~ak. DPI'aul. on the othnr hand, sits at 3-14 ov1u-all and 0-5 in the Big Hast. Whiln the Dnmons are looking lin· their first eonli~r­nnen win, thn Irish arn looking to stay undnlimtnd in thn conlimmen. Still. as usual, tlw Irish rnspnet their opponent but arn morn wor­rind about their own play. 

"One of' the most important goals is to havn a high hitting pnr­enntagn," shn said. "Wn just none! to play wnll on our side." 
In thPir last match, tho Dmnons wnr11 swnpt by Wis('.onsin­Milwauknn :~0-1 (J, 30-17, :30-21. Thnir oll'lmsive struggles contin­und as thny hit li1r a .200 percnnt­agn in one of' the games against tlw l'anth1~rs Wndnnsday night. 
Throughout thnir snvnn-mateh winning strnak, tlw Irish dwm­istry has, no doubt, improvml on thn eourt. Thny know nach other wPII. Seniors Launm Brnwstnr and Laurnn Knlblny just know where sophomore sottor A'>hley 'I~trutis is going to sot up their spikes. I>nl'nnsivo players Meg lleniean and I>anielle Ilnrndon just know whnn to hustle al'tor a ball and when to hold back, to !Pt a tnam­mate dive instead. Allor tnam din­ners and study sessions, they know each other oil' the court as wnll. 

Yet Saturday. they'll havn an opportunity not many othnr top tmuns around tlw nation get -to bnconw dosnr through watching thnir favorite lilOtball tnam. 
So, dnspitn lnaving tho campus on this bustling lilotball wonknnd, tlw Irish hop!' to makn tlw most ol' thnir Chieago trip. 

Alrnady ranknd No. I 0 ami on a long winning strnak, thny hopP to return with a win and a tightnr bund1. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart€vnd.edu 
NFL 
Bengals' Johnson eager to test Titans' 'Pacn1an' Jones 
and evnn sent boxes ol' l'opto­nnrbaek who'll makn only his game with at lnast one recnp­said.
Two-time Pro Bowl 
Bisnwl to pump them up, but he third start Sunday when the tion. Jonns and Johnson hn1~anw receiver expects to only had praisn for Tonnessoo's Bengals (4-1 l visit the Titans {2-Titans coach .Jnl'f' Fisher said almost instant fri1~nds about a top draft pick Wndnnsday. 3) . .Jones was deactivated for .Jones has a good chance of' lin­year ago aru~r nweting inhave his hands full "I talknd with Parman during the season opener, then alter­ing up across from Johnson with Atlanta. Tlw rookin l'.onsidl'rs thn oll'soason and let him know I nated with Tony Beckham for the Bnngals moving t.hc rncniver Johnson a big hrot.lwr l'igurn couldn't wait for this challtmge two games before moving into around the linld. Fishi~r pnrson­and nxpnets a phorw call !'rom and this opportunity to play Uw starting lineup on Oct. 2. ally thinks Johnson puts morn tho rncnivnr before Sunday's 
Ni\SIIVII.LE, Tenn. -Chad against him. I'm rnally looking .Jones has 16 tackles and has prnssurn on a defnnsn's safeties game. .Johnson is a talkativn two-time forward to it. lin is a good friend dnfensed only two passes orli­than on cornerbacks bnr.ausn of I le isn't worried about. gntting l'ro Bowl rncnivnr known f'or his of mine," Johnson said in a eon­eially. Still, .Johnson piled on the his vnrtieal spnnd. a "No" check on Johnson's list of' tmu~hdown cnlnhrations. Adam f'mnneo call. praise. Fishnr isn't worried about opposing 1~onwrbacks this sea­"l'acman" .Iones is a brash rook­"Hookie or not, he is a good "lie is lightning-quick, and he Jonns, quite a talker himself. son for failing to makn a play in eorrrerback with plans on how playnr. First-round piek, sixth is fast," he said. "That is a hard getting caught up in a trash-fest against thn flll~nivnr. But .Jones lw'll commemorate his first NFI. playPr taknn ovnrall, thnre is a eombination to lind." with Johnson. sounds as if hn's lnarrwd sonw­tmwhdown. reason hn was takPn that high, .Johnson, who has led tlw AFC "Jlo knows that he has got to thing from watching .Johnson's 
It's a matchup seemingly Uti­bncausn hn is a ballplaynr. in yards receiving in each of the do tho host he can, stay focused TD celebrations becmrsn hn said lor-made f'or lots of trash-talk­Thorn is no licking your r.hops. last two smtsons, currently leads and concentrate. Chad sonw­hn has sonwthing planned f'or ing. I've got to go out and play him tho AFC with 31 reeeptions and timos thinks lw gets in pnopln's his first touchdown. 
But not. until kirkoiT. tho sanw way I would play any ranks second with 42(> yards heads. But most of' t.hn timn, "I can't tl'll you. but it's going 
In tlw past. .Johnson has callnd I0-ynar vntnran." receiving. On Sunday, lw'll he dnfnnsivn playnrs around this to bP very, vPry, vnry PntPrtain­somn of his upcoming opporwnts lligh praise indnnd for a cor-going for his 50th eonsncutivn lnagun line up and play," Fislwr ing," .Iones promised. 
Associated Press 

-
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 14, 2005 
NFL 


Roethlisberger, Ward miss another practice 

Absence of two stars concerns Pittsburgh 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH Ben Roethlisberger isn't the Pittsburgh Steelers' only injury worry with Sunday's game against Jacksonville approach­ing. Wide receiver Hines Ward missed praetice for a seeond straight day Thursday with a nagging hamstring injury. 
If Roethlisberger and Ward can't practiee Friday -and neither player has been on the field since Monday night's 24­22 vietory in San Diego -it seems unlikely they will play. Most weeks, the Steelers require a player to practice at least once before a game to play, though coach Bill Cowher said he does not have a blan­ket p.olicy. 
"It's case by case," Cowher said Thursday. "Obviously, if you have somebody who hasn't praeticed all week, you have to take that into account. We are just going to look at all the cir­eumstances and go from there." 
Roethlisberger, whose left knee became hyperextended during the Steelers' game-win­
ning final drive Monday, did some light jogging and throw­ing but did not practice. Still, that was an improvement from Wednesday, when he was on crutches for most of the day. 
Roethlisberger remains doubtful, meaning there is only a 25 pereent ehanee that he will play, while Ward is questionable. Ward also was questionable leading into Monday's game, but played and made six catches for 83 yards. 
But the short work week between games isn't helping Ward and, Cowher said, "It becomes a concern" when a player can't practice. 
It wasn't Ward's day-even if it was. 
He was honored Thursday during Hines Ward Day cere­monies in nearby Washington, Pa., which named him its hon­orary mayor and gave him the key to the city, an honor previ­ously reserved for dignitaries such as former presidents John F. Kennedy and Bill Clinton. 
Cowher did get favorable injury news: Hoethlisberger's backup, Tommy Maddox (calD, was upgraded from question­able to probable. 
That means he could start 
ahead of No. 3 quarterback Charlie Batch, who hasn't started a game in four years, if Roethlisberger ean't go. 
When Maddox was hurt in practice Friday, the Steelers expected him to be out for three to four weeks. 
"lie appears to be very good. and Ben feels a lot better than he did yesterday (Wednesday)," Cowher said. 
Hegardless of what happens in praetice Friday, Cowher probably won't designate a starting quarterback until game time Sunday, if only to force the Jaguars to prepare for one of three possible starters. 
Willie Parker will make his fifth eonseeutive start at run­ning back, despite being replaced by Jerome Bettis dur­ing most of the seeond half in San Diego. 
Bettis ran for 54 yards on 1 7 carries and a touchdown in his first game action since last season's playoffs, not counting the preseason. 
Parker, who ran for 272 yards against the losing-record Titans and Texans to start the season, was limited to 26 yards on 10 earries by San Diego and has 81 yards on 27 carries in his last two starts. 
MLB-AL 

Yankees' Stottlelllyre gone, pitcher Gordon could be next 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Besides a new pitching coach, the Yankees might have to lind a setup man, too. 
As the J\L East champions dealt with their latest posL•mason disap­pointment, George Steinbrenner responded Thursday to Mel Stottlemyre's departure, and Tom Gordon said he would consider leaving the Bronx li>r the chance to be a closer again. 
Changes are expected following New York's loss to the Angels in th(l division series, and they start­ed with the resignation of Stottlemyre. The longtime pitch­ing was critical of Steinbrenner's treatment of manager Joe Torre on Wndnesday, when he said he didn't expect to return for an 11th season with the team. 
Steinbrenner rnsponded Thursday in a release issued by the team. 
"Mel Stottlemyre will always be a Yankee. When I purehased the ballclub more than 30 years ago, he was one of the teams true stars and leaders and, during his 10 seasons as pitching coach, we

-
won six American League pen­nants and four World Championships. While it is no secret that I can be a very difficult boss, Mel has always conducted himself as a professional and a gentleman. I wish he and (wife) Jean much success and happi­
-
ness in the future." 
Stottlemyre was at Yankee Stadium on Thursday but did not address the media. 

-
The new pitching coach might be working with a replacement for Gordon, who is set to become 
a free agent. 
Gordon has spent the last two years as the setup man for Mariano Rivera, but made it clear Thursday that he would be inter­

-
ested in returning to the role of closer. 
"The Yankees will be first but I still would like to close," he said. 
An All-Star in 2004, Gordon has pitched wel1 in the regular season but has been a disappointment in the playoff.'>. He had an 8.10 EHA during last year's AL champi­onship series against Boston, and allowed two runs in 2 1-3 innings in the loss to the Angels. Torre bypassed him in Game 4, when he used Rivera li>r two innings to linish with the Yankees facing elimination. 
Gordon began his career as a starter before becoming a top closer. He led the AL with 46 saves in 1998 for Boston, and said saving games is something he wants to do again. 
"I had a great time being a setup here," he said. "I enjoyed every day with Mo. I still have in my mind that if I got an opportu­nity again to close that I want to do that. Closing's always going to be a first choice for me." 
The Yankees also will have to make a decision on Tino Martinez. A member of their four World Series championship teams from 1996-00, he returned to the team this season and hit .241 with 17 homers in a part-time role. 
Martinez said Thursday at Yankee Stadium that he would like to come back, but would understand if his role, too, is another one of the chang1~s. 
"That's just the way the Yankees are," he said. "Everyone knows when you come to the Yankees things can change from year to year. Everybody knows that." 


r-------------------------~------­
friday, October 14, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
NCAA FOOTBALL 



Robinson's arm, legs could give Michigan fits 
lead in turnovers l'OIIllllittml with 1:~ through tlw lirst l(•ur ganws. Two ganws lat!'l' into tlu• SPa· son and tlwy arP still at n. 
"Turnov;~rs arP l'unny ani­mals." roarh .!on Patnrno said. "Tiu• fact that wn hawn't had a turnovnr in tlw last two gamPs doesn't nwan a thing. WP havn to light to makP surP WP don't gl't tlwm." 
ThP LurnovPrs wnrpn't soiPiy Hohinson's l'ault. Sonw ol' tlw intPrcPptions wnrP tippml at tlw linP or houn!·.pd ol'l' rPr.nivnrs' hands. 
But Hobinson did haw a proh­(pm with l'umhiPs . .loP PatPrno said that his quartPrbark had bPen ntrPIPss with thn hall whiiP trying to gain ~~xtra yardag~•. 
Hobinson said that in r1H'Pill ga nws lu• was lul'king tlw ha II dosPr to his body and shirting to a running back's nwntality al'tPr taking oil'. 
liP might also IH• hnl1wd by a contraption l'aiiP<I "Tiw BlastPr" that. lw runs through in prarti1~n. It is mainly usPd by running backs to prar.tin~ protPr.ting tlw ball, hut Bobinson usns it. too. 
Though his linal stats against a tough Ohio State dnl'ensn last w1wk didn't look too impn~ssivn, hn did run for a scorn. and .lay Paterno said his quartnrhar.k made nxenllnnt dndsions down the strntch as Penn Statn WPnt eonsPrvativn on ommse. 
Despite the attention ovPr Hobinson's mobility, Carr is awarn of the quartnrb;u~k 's abili­ty to throw. 

Authenticate to Connect 
;:,.::···-~
.,__..•.-· 

Confirm you are ~ 
·,. 
a Notre Dame  ""'· ,  
wireless user;  
not a network  .. ~  
intruder.  

Q Q 
Q 

What is wireless authentication? Q How do I learn how to use these authentication methods?
Wireless authentication is new to Notre Dame. It verifies that you Go to http://oit.nd.edu/nomad. are a member of the Notre Dame 
Q 
When will I have to start using
community who is authorized to use 
the new authentication procedure
the Nomad wireless network. 
to connect to Nomad? Why is wireless authentication 
Wireless authentication will 
necessary? 
become mandatory on Wednesday, Wireless authentication prevents October 19, 2005. people not officially affiliated with 
Q 
Will there be a way for me to
Notre Dame from using wireless to 
use Nomad wireless without
gain access to the University network. 
authenticating?

But it enables you, a member of the Notre Dame community, to wirelessly No. Everyone who connects to the access your email, shared storage and Notre Dame network via Nomad other University resources in a more will have to employ the new 
secure manner. authentication procedure. 
How do I use this new authentication procedure to obtain a wireless network connection? 




@J'-5))
There are two ways you can authen­ticate, either via your Web browser or by setting up your Windows XP or Mac 
NOMAD
OS X computer to use a special type of network connection called 802.1 x. WIRELESS NETWORK 
-

Associated Press 
STATE COLLI·:GE, Pa. -Midmnl Hobinson's right arm is lar.ml with musdns and tattoos, but his lngs attrar.t just as mur.h attnntion. 
Pnnn Statp's quartnrbar.k has run l(u· livn tourhdowns this sna­son and thrown l'or nirw, mostly on long passns to onn of his llnnt l'rnshnwn rnenivnrs. lin's got an improving of'fpnsivn linP and mobility that lwlps km•p drivns alivn and gnts him out of troubln. 
That might bn troubln for Michigan (3-:~. 1-:~ Big TPn). which wnlconws No. H l'nnn Statn (h-0, 3-0) on Saturday. Tho Wolvnrinns havn had somn prob­lems eontaining mobiln quartnr­baeks. 
"They have a quartPrbark who is rnally a running bark with a quarterback's arm," Michigan del'nnsivn tarkh~ Pat Massey. "lin is sonwbody who can do it all." 
In boating Miehigan Statn ear­linr this season, Michigan did OK against tho Spartans' mobiln sig­nal-rallnr, Drnw Stanton. lin ran !'or a TD but linishnd with zoro yards rushing. 
Stanton's passing did most ol' thn darnagn. lin was 20-l'or-30 !'or 2H2 yards with one TD pass l'or the Spartans, who have bonn loss willing to let him run this year. 
Last season, Stanton gavn Miehigan fits, as did dual-thnmts Troy Smith ol' Ohio State and Vinco Young of Tnxas. 
Now thn Wolverines get 
NEW for Nomad Wireless 
Bohinson, a lil'th-ynar snnior who has hnlpnd lnad tlw Nittany Lions to t.lwir bnst start since tlwy won tho first nirw gamns in 1999. 
"lip is a grnat athlntn and lw runs likn a tailback," Michigan coarh Lloyd Carr said. "I think lw is rnally dnvPiopml as a thrownr." 
This is Bobinson 's lirst l'ull ynar as starting quartnrbark al'l.nr playing of'tnn at running hal'k and widn rnenivnr narlior in his mrnnr. Zark Mills. who has grad­uatnd, startnd tlw majority ol' gamns at quart.nrbark last sna­son whiln Bobinson also got starts at widPout. 
"lin's grown hy gigantic !naps and bounds this snason." I'Pnn Statn quartnrbarks coach .lay Patnrno said. "I don't know il'you can ask anybody who ran do any morn than hn has l(u· this tnam." 
Hobinson is thn unqunstiorwd lnadnr on a balanrnd Pmm Statn ofTensn bursting with big-play potnnt.ial. lin has hnl1wd spnndy frnshmnn Derrick Williams, Ikon Butler and Justin King gnt adjustnd at receiver and 1iraisnd Tony llunt l'or paring a solid run­ning game. 
"We just take what the del'ensn gives us," Hobinson said. "II' they give us running lanes, wn'll takn that. II' it's passing lanns, we will take that." 
Pnrhaps evnn morn imprnssive is the l'aet that the oll'nnsn hasn't had a tu rniwnr sinen the first hall' of the Northwnstnrn ganw, a span of 10 quarters. Penn Stale had bem1 tied for tho Division 1-A 


~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 

Office of Information Technologies 
http://oit.nd.edu 

page 28 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 14, 2005 
LPGA 

Wie begins pro career by chasing Sorenstam 






''LOU HOLTZ IOOWINS'' 
Commemorative lithograph honoring Lou Holtz's remarkable coaching career here at Notre Dame. Signed and numbered by artist Cory Sochocki.lncludes Certificate of Authenticity. $1 SO. A portion of the proceeds benefit a nursing scholarship in honor of Lou's mother, Anne Holtz. 
Available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore or online at www.ndbookstore.com 
·-­
16-year old ends first round with a 2-under 70, trails by six shots 
Associated Press 
PALM DESERT, Calif. ­Michelle Wie steadied her 6-foot frame over the ball, unleashed a powerful swing with a 3-wood and sent the ball soaring against the yellow-and-green backdrop of Bighorn Golf Club to embark on her prof(Jssional career Thursday. 
"I wasn't that nervous when I put the ball on the tee," the 16­year-old said. "I wasn't that nerv­ous when I took my practice swings. But onee I got over my ten shot. ?1.Y hea;,t was thumping. It was diflernnt. 
But when the first round of the Samsung World Championship ended with a bogey for a 2-under 70 -six shots behind Annika Sorenstam -it was not much dif­ferent from the previous 93 rounds Wie has played against the pros. 
Not mueh di!Ierent, either, was the name atop the leaderboard. 
Watching the Michelle Wie Show unfold in the group ahead, Sorenstam went about her busi­ness with alarming precision on her way to an 8-under 64, a score that could have been even lower except for missing birdie putts inside 5 feet on the final two holes. 
Asked if she was sending a mes­sage to the kid, Sorenstam said: 
"Honestly, I didn't feel like I'm here to prove anything. I'm here to reach my own goals, play my own golf. I see this a.•; an opportu­nity to win this tournament. for the fifth time." 
Sorenstam had a one-shot lead over Gloria Park and Cristie Kerr, who played with Wie and wel­comed her to the professional ranks with four birdies on her first five holes. 

Kerr has been playing practice rounds with Wie since the Hawaii sensation was 13, and she knew what to expect-not just the prodigious tee shots, but the media hype around it. Even before she stepped onto the first tee, Kerr asked that a TV crew be moved outside the ropes. And though she was five shots better than Wie, she was impressed. 
"I came out here straight out of high school," Kerr said. "My first shot, I think I shanked it, or I at least hit it poorly. She striped it down the middle. It was fun to watch." 
Wie wound up in a tie for 12th among the 20-player field, drop­ping shots on two of the last five holes with a tee shot that car­omed off the trees on the 14th, and hitting twice into bunkers on the closing hole. 
It was steady, not spectacular. Even so, Wie showed she belongs. 
"We have the best 20 players here, and she's one of them," Lorie Kane said after a 66. 
Bighorn doesn't draw large gal­leries to the hilly course tucked in the foothills of the Santa Rosa, although most of them took their spot in the scrub brush and cacti to watch Wie launch her profes­sional career. 
It was a 3-wood, low and crisp in the middle of the fairway, and it was met with applause she has heard before. 
Her entourage included just about everyone from her support group -mom and dad, swing coach David Leadbetter and his wife, three executives from William Morris Agency, agent 
Fcot.ball Fridays At Fever 

-Live Music in  -Doors  Open  @  
October  9pm  
-14th Blues  N'  -Food Served  All  
Gold  Night  

Watch for details about our Halloween Contest!!! 
CLUB FEVER 222 SouTH MICHIGAN STREET, SouTH BEND 574-234-5200 
WWW.CLUBFEVER.BIZ 





NQMA 
~ · dine, drink, +· be stylish 
Seeking energetic Restaurant Manager Bar Manager Sommelier Bartender Sous Chef Line Cook Dishwasher Food Runner Server and Cocktail Server Bus and Host To be on the ground floor of New Upbeat Fusion Restaurant/Bar In Downtown South Bend. Competitive Benefit Package Available (2 Yrs Experience Required) Fax Resume to 232-3799 

Hoss Berlin and his wife, Nike chairman Phil Knight in a rare appearance, along with the three other Nike staff members. 
The biggest difference comes Sunday, when Wie collects her first paycheck. 
"I haven't thought about playing f()r money or more prnssure," Wie said. "Once 1 started playing, it wasn't any difierent." 
Wie played 24 times on the LPGA Tour, and competed five times against the men during an amateur career in which she spent mom time playing against the pros. She joined them last week in Honolulu, signing lucra­tive deals with Nike and Sony, instantly making more endorse­ment money than even Sorenstam. 
She showed poise, patience and the usual amount of frustration over her putting. 
After a wedge into 18 inches for a tap-in birdie on her second hole, she faeed her first test. Her drive on the par-5 third hole went right into a small piece of desert, the ball nestled in a tiny bush with a rock the size of a bowling ball possibly getting in the way of her next shot. 
Hather than take a risk, Wie took a one-shot penalty to move it to the sand and punched out. She hit her fourth shot into 3 feet and escaped with par. 
"I could have played it left­handed," Wie said. "But it was the third hole on the first day, so I thought I'd just take an unplayable. I made par anyway." 
She made her share of birdies, too, twice on the par 5s by getting around the green in two, and an 18-foot birdie putt on the 1Oth hole, the longest putt she made all day. 
Wie was three shots ofl' the lead at that point, tied for fifth, until although the atmosphere was dif­her two mistakes cost her. ferent. Sorenstam is no stranger 

"The most memorable thing to low numbers, but it's rarely this was I hit the first fairway," she quiet when she's making so many said. "Obviously, some things did­birdies. All the attention was in n't go as well as I planned." the group ahead, and that was OK 
Sorenstam had few complaints, with the 35-year-old Swede. 


OUND THE NATION 
Friday, October 14, 2005 
NHL Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
tnam  record  OT  points  
New Jersey  2·1  0  4  
NY Rangers  1-1  2  4  
Pittsburgh  0·1  3  3  
Philadelphia  1·2  0  2  
NY Islanders  1·2  0  2  

Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
tl'am record OT points Ottawa 4-0 
0 8 Montreal 4·1 
0 8 Buffalo 3·1 
0 6 Boston 2·2 
0 4 Toronto 1·1 
2 4 

Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
tnam rneord OT points Florida 3·1 0 6 Atlanta 2·2 0 4 Tampa Bay 2·2 0 4 Carolina 2·2 0 4 Washington 2·3 0 4 
Western Conference, Central Division 
loam rncord OT points Detroit 3·1 0 6 Nashville 3·0 0 6 St. Louis 1·3 0 2 Columbus 1·3 0 2 Chicago 1·3 0 2 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
tnam rocord OT points Edmonton 3·1 0 6 Minnesota 2·1 1 5 Vancouver 2·1 1 5 Colorado 2·2 0 4 Calgary 1·3 0 2 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
ti'CIIII rm:ord OT points Los Angeles 3·1 0 6 Dallas 2·1 0 4 San Jose 2·2 0 4 Anaheim 1-1 1 3 Phoenix 1·3 0 2 
Big East Men's Soccer 
team record points 

1 USF 6·1·0 18 
2 St. John's 5·0·2 17 
3 Cincinnati 4·1·2 14 
4 Connecticut 4·2·1 13 
4 West VIrginia 4·2·1 13 
6 Seton Hall 3-2·2 11 
7 NOTRE DAME 3·3·1 10 
7 Providence 2·1·4 10 
9 Villanova 3·3·0 9 
9 Georgetown 3·4·0 9 
11 Rutgers 2·4·1 7 
11 Louisville 2·4·1 7 
13 Pittsburgh 2·5·0 6 
14 DePaul 1·4·1 4 
14 Marquette 1·5·1 4 
around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL Texas-EI Paso at Tulane 7:00 p.m., ESPN 
MLB Chicago White Sox at Los Angeles Angels 7:10p.m., FOX 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 29 
NBA 


Associated Press 

CLEVElAND -Cavalinrs All-Star forward LeBron Jamos rmnainod hospital· iznd Thursday with pain in his chest from what the team eallod a strained mus­
dn. 

James was admitted to the Clnvoland Clinic for tnsts Wndnnsday night, hours al"t.nr hn was wincing during pradien. Jamns said he donsn 't know how he got tho injury, which tnam doe· tors initially diagnosnd as a strainnd loft pnetoral. 
The Cavaliers did not rnveal James' hospital stay until Thursday afternoon when lw missed praetiee. 
General manager Danny Ferry said tests on James have not shown anything abnormal, and his under­standing is that Janws' heart "is not an issue." 
"They're going to test evnrything," Fnrry said. 
Following Wednesday's workout at Quicken Loans Arnna, Janws eontinund to be bothnred by stifl"noss and soreness. At tho Cavalim·s' urging, the 20-year-old was taken to the hospital, Ferry said. 
"Just as a pmcaution. we wanted to have tests to make sure hn cheeks out well," Ferry said. ";\II the tost results wo have back so far have been good and thoro is nothing to bn eon­enrrwd about. Evnry indica­tion is that it is a rn usdo injury." 
Tlw Cavaliors lutvn a home preseason game Friday night against Philadelphia. 
James sat out Clnvoland's gamn Ttwsday in Pittsburgh af'tnr waking up that morn­ing in pain. 
"I don't know whoro it earno from," said Jamns, who scornd 1(J points Monday night against Washington. "I don't remember gotting elbowed in tlw chnst or puslwd. It 

was sorm~t.hing I twvnr fnlt. bnforn." 
With tlw sPason opPtH~r snvnral wonks away, tlw Cavalinrs arnn't taking any chanr.ns with Jamns, tlwir lhu11~hisn playPr. 
"Wn just want t.o makn surn our guys arn lwalthy," Forry said. "lin's rnsting now, wn told him to tako it nasy." 
Janws has bonn rnmark­ably durabln during his first two snasons in tlw NBA. 
As a rookin, lw missPd t.hron gamns with a spraitwd right anklo. Last snason, lw missnd only two gamos with a sprainod lnl't <lllkln. 
IN BRIEF 

C~wboys' Goodrich begins pnson sentence 
DALlAS -Former Dallas Cowboys player Dwayne Goodrich was ordnred to start a 7 1/2-year prison sentence for thn hit-and-run deaths of two good Samaritans in 2003. 
Goodrich has exhausted his appoals since being convietod in August 2003, seven months after his ear struck three men trying to free a trapped motorist inside a burning ear on an interstate. The third man was serious­ly injurod. 
The 27 -year-old Goodrich was con­victed on two eounl<> of criminally neg­ligont homieide and lined $20,000. lie was ordered Wednesday to begin serv­ing his sentence and was in custody Thursday, records show. 
Witnessos said Goodrich was travel­ing more than 100 mph before he veered onto the freeway shoulder to avoid the burning car. 
Goodrich, a defensive baek, was the Cowboys' top pick in tho 2000 draft, selected out of Tennessee in the sec­ond round. 
Walton out six weeks with 
hamsbing injury · 
HONOLULU -Lakers forward Luke Walton probably will begin the season on the injured list because of a strained left hamstring. 
The third-year player was injured late in the fourth quarter Tuesday night when Los Angeles beat Golden State 101-93 in the exhibition opener for both teams. Lakers spokesman John Black said Walton would bn side­lined two to six weeks. 
"The trainers are saying probably dosnr to six weeks," Walton said bnfore the Lakers and Warriors met again Wednesday night at the University of llawaii. "They said it's dill'ernnt for everyone." 
Walton said he's never had this kind of injury belim1. lie was injurnd while cutting to the basket not long arter making a 3-point play with 4:08 remaining that gave the Lakers an 89­84lead. 
"I felt a sharp pain shoot through it," he said. "As soon as I cut, it just popped." 
Women invited to next 
year's British Open 
ST. ANI>HEWS, Scotland -Womnn golfers could be pl.tying at next year's British Open. 
The Boyal & Andnnt Golf" Club, the governing body for the sport outside the UnitPd States, said Thursday it was changing its entry rules to allow womon to qualify for the oldnst. of the four majors. 
The announeenwnt eanw on tlw same day that I6-year-old Midwlle Wie was making her pro dnbut at Uw Samsung World Championship at Bighorn Golf" Club. 
Past entry forms for thn British Open restricted the evnnl to "any malo ­professional golfer" or "main amateur 
' 
golfer whose playing handicap do11s I' not exceed scratch." Tlw nnw ruins 'I I state that entry "should bn basnd on I 
Iplaying ability irrnspedivn of gnnder." I Any woman finishing in the top five I I -induding ties -in any of thn four I I major tournaments this year can try for the Open through rngional and final qualifying. 
-
page 30 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, October 14, 2005 
NHL 


Sabres start road trip with win over Islanders 
Devils cross Hudson River, lose to Rangers in Madison Square Garden, 4-1; Islanders outscore Capitals in D.C., 5-3 
Associated Press more than Tampa Bay's John Jagr made it 4-1 with a 
Grahame. power-play goal at 12:59. 
Daniel Briere and Thomas Vanek scored in the shootout Rangers 4, Devils 1 Islanders 5, Capitals 3 to give the Buffalo Sabres a 4-Martin Rucinsky and Ville Jason Blake and Petteri 3 victory over the Tampa Bay Nieminen scored 17 seconds Nokelainen both had a goal Lightning on Thursday night. apart in the first period and and an assist and Oleg Kvasha 
The Sabres won the shootout rookie goalie Ilenrik Lundqvist added three assists to lead the 2-0 as goalie Ryan Miller made 20 saves for his first New York Islanders to a victo­stopped Martin St. Louis and NHL victory as the New York ry over the Washington Brad Hichards. Hangers beat the New Jersey Capitals on Thursday night. 
Maxim Afinogenov's waist­Devils on Thursday night. Alexei Yashin, Trent Hunter high deflection or Toni Blair Betts and Jaromir Jagr and Mark Parrish also scored Lydman's shot got Bul'falo even also scored for the Rangers, for New York, which scored on at 3 with 8:4 7 left in the third who ended a three-game los­its first two shots of the game. period. Briere and Paul ing streak against their local The Islanders, who have won Gaustad also seored for the rivals. two of three overall, had been Sabres, who began a three­Brian Giunta scored for the 1-12-2 in their last 15 games game road trip. Devils, who are 24-4-11 at MCI Center. 
Buffalo played the final 1:46 against the Rangers since the Matt Bradley seored twice of overtime with a two-man 1997-98 season. and Steve Eminger added a advantage after the Lightning Rucinsky got the Hangers goal for the Capitals, who were received three minor penalties. rolling with a shot from the playing their sixth game in Buffalo got only one shot dur­left circle that beat Martin nine nights. Washington has ing the stretch. Brodeur between the pads at lost two straight and four of 
Tampa Bay got goals from 11:35. Nieminen split the five. Richards, Vincent Lecavalier Devils' defense soon after and Alexander Oveehkin, the first and Vinny Prospal. The lifted a backhander over pick in the 2004 draft, had an Lightning (2-2-1) play their Brodeur for a 2-0 lead. assist and has a point in each next three games on the road Betts made it 3-0 at 16:02 of of the Capitals' six games. after opening the year with the opening period when he Islanders goalie Hick four of five at home. scored on a rebound of Martin DiPietro left the game 11 :09 
Gaustad tied the game at Straka's shot. into the second period after and three of its first five -to pulled up near the left circle 
10:16 of the second period and The highlight of the scoreless being shaken up while making build the early lead. and wristed a shot past Prospal gave the Lightning a 3-second period came at the a headlong dive to stop a drive Yashin redirected a feed DiPietro at 9:42 to make it 3-1 2 lead when he skated through midpoint when Lundqvist pre­down the slot by Jeff Halpern. from Brad Lukowich past and Eminger pulled the the slot and scored on a wrist served the shutout with a Garth Snow replaced him Johnson 2:10 into the game. Capitals within a goal 7:52 into shot at 13:51. sprawling save on John and made 13 saves in his first Hunter seored 1:13 later, the second period, seven sec­
Briere put the Sabres ahead Madden's short-handed break­action of the season, allowing sweeping the puck from the onds after a Washington power 1-0 when he scored on a away. Bradley's second goal with 37 left corner and bouncing it in play expired. rebound of his own shot 5:15 In the third, the Devils broke seconds to play. off Johnson's right leg. Nokelainen recorded his first into the first. Tampa Bay tied through at 4:16 when Gionta New York exploited a shaky Blake made it 3-0 with a NHL goal 1:03 into the third it on Riehards' goal at 8:14. scored with the teams skating start by goalie Brent Johnson, short-handed goal at 8:24. period and Parrish made it 5-2 
Miller had 32 saves, two four-on-four. scoring on its first two shots -Bradley circled the net, 1:13 later. 

The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifleds is 3 p.m. All classifleds must he prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifleds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Ten girls from the Class of 2005 looking for a place within walking 
NOTICES distance to ND to rent for the Tennessee weekend. Call Andrea at 
SPRING BREAKERS Book Early 651-308-9285. 
and Save Lowest Prices Hottest 
Destinations BOOK 15=2 FREE 
TRIPS OR CASH FREE 
MEALS/PARTIES BY 11/7 Highest FoR SALE 
Commission Best Travel Perks 
www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800-ND FANS For Sale: Cabin 25 mi. 426-7710 from NO. Wooded gated community with lake access. 3 BD 2BA loft, 

Ride your bike to campus! Just off Angela. 1400 sq. ft.with loads of character. Under $1 05K. Call Pam Proctor 574-707-9357 ReMax 100. 
5 mins to ND. 52420 Kenilworth Rd., 2 story,4 bdrms, 2 1/2 baths. Totally remodeled in 2005. Everything is new except the base­men!. Park-like 2/3 acre lot. $224,900. Broker owned. Re/Max 100 Betty Frame (574) 532-9867. 
HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6 Bedrooms includes all utilities, local phone, washer/dryer, security sys-tern. $400/student. Office 234-9334, Cell315-2509 ndstudentrentals.com 
HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6 Bedrooms includes all utilities, local phone, washer/dryer, security sys-tern. $400/student. Office 234-9334, Cell315-2509 ndstudentrentals.com 

Historic 1830 Greek Revival home on the St. Joseph River available for football/alum weekends -just over PERSONALS the Michigan border from South Bend in Buchanan. $600-850. 3+ UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do bedrooms, barn with"gentlemens not go it alone. If you or someone quarters" for cigars, direct river you love needs confidential support frontage. See or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. http://www.vrbo.com/61848. Call Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more David at 312 575-0601. information, see our bi-weekly ad in 
THE OBSERVER. 5bdrm house, sleeps 12. Avail. foot­ball season. 574-261-0349. Spring Break 2006. Travel with 
screened porch, FP, 1000 sq.ft.condo on the river. ND HOME GAME WEEKENDS STS, America s #1 Student Tour $295,000. Beautiful view. Ground level walk-Very nice 3bdr home, fully fur-USC Weekend: Executive Villa 2 Operator to Jamaica, Cancun, LOST AND FOUND Call619-606-8815. out to the river. Spacious living nished,walk to NO. Garage+ 5 off-Bedrooms, Kitchen/Bar Family, TV Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. 
room,dining room, bath, eat-in street parking,gas grill. Open lease Room, Patio on Water, Gourmet Now hiring on-campus reps. Call for LOST ON 9/28 -DIAMOND TEN· OPEN HOUSE Sunday 2-4, 19633 kitchen, laundry room & 1-car after. Breakfast $700.00, per group discounts. NIS BRACELET. REWARD Glendale. East off 933. Brick ranch garage. All appliances stay. 283-0629. Bedroom/Weekend. 57 4-220-6285 Information/Reservations 1-800­OFFERED. PLEASE CALL & efficiency, 3bdrm, 3bath total. 1/2 $86,500. Close to ND. Many ameni-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com SHARON 631-5248. acre on creek. 2.5 miles to ND. For ties. Call574-251-0459. HOUSES FOR RENT: Area Houses and Apartments for 
Sale at $119,900. 3-5 BEDROOM HOMES. rent. Log on to ADOPTION: At home Catholic LOST: Womens eyeglasses, brow,n Mickey Kane 286-8209. OBOE, excellent condition. Call Rob GOOD CONDITION. MichianaRentals.com Call 574-993-schooled mom and lawyer dad with frames (Ralph Lauren). Lost on Oct. AWARD REALTY @574-631-8649 or 271-1416. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. RENT (7368). 4 yr old big brother long to share 
7. Reward. Call 574-904-9831. Call Sean their happy home and family with a 
Elegant all brick 3bdrm home & 532-1895. baby. Financial security/bright future FOUND LATE SEPT. Between garage. Nicely remodeled, gorgeous in S.CA beach community. 
TICKETS 

Legends and Mendoza sterling sil-inside.1 mi to ND. FoR RENT 2brm !urn apt Expenses paid as permitted. ver Tiffany bracelet. Call and identi-$175,900. ND & SMC events. WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. Legal/confidential. Please call fy. Kate 631-5314. 283-0629. GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH-254-1600 TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. Adrienne and Steve toll free any-
BORHOODS time: 1-888-476-2220. 1 bdrm condo near ND. All appli-andersonNDrentals.com WALK TO SCHOOL FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. ances. $69,900. Call Kim Kollar Lakeside,MI cottage. Perfect for ND 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE SPRING BREAK -Early Booking 
WANTED 574-280-8160. CENTURY 21 JIM game weekends. 7732182203 MMMRENTALS.COM FOR$$: www.victorytickets.com Specials-FREE Meals & Drinks ­
DUNFEE 532-1408 $50 Deposit-800-234-7007 ALL STUDENTS Part Time Work HOMES FOR RENT. KRAMER BUYING &SELLING ND FOOT-www.endlesssummertours.com $12.25 base/appt. Flexible sched-For Sale: 29 peaceful acres 22 PROPERTIES HAS HOMES AVAIL-Available 1 bedroom BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. ules around classes, Gain exp. in miles from Notre Dame. This build-ABLE RANGING FROM 3 BDRMS Ivy Residential (Jamison) condo 273-3911. Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 customer sales & service, able site has a 6-acre pine forest UP TO 10 BDRMS. 11/21/05-5/06. Days from $299! Includes Meals, 
and great hunting for deer, quail, CLOSE TO NO. FOR 06-07 Call Mary Anne Benedict WANTED: NO-USC football tix. TOP MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, Conditions apply, all ages 17 & turkey and pheasant. A place for SCHOOLYEARCALLKRAMER 607-723-7363. $$$PAID. CALL 574-232-2378 A.M. Acapulco. Jamaica From $499! older, you and your friends to stay-FOR SHOWINGS-OFFICE 234-574-288-2726 P.M. Campus Reps Needed! 
--Call Today 574-273-3835. Forever! Pam Craft, RE/MAX 2436; CELL 315-5032. Paradise!Privacy! PromoCode:31 www.springbreak-Central (800) 787-2311. For rent-the East Wing of 12,000+sf BUY/SELUTRADE OR SWAP ND travel.com 1-800-678-6386 NOW HIRING Have a car? Need YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apart-gated estate/ FOOTBALL TIX. 289-8048. some extra cash? 3 bdrm house on Riverside Drive, 5 ments available for 06-07 school 10 acres located 17 minutes to NO. USC: 1 day Jimmy John s is hiring drivers for all mins. to NO. Quiet, safe neighbor· year. Call today 235-7234. Furn 5 bdr/3ba,private kitchen,huge NEED USC &TENN TIX & PARK-shills. hood. $125,000. Call 574-234-family roomw/fp. lNG PASS. 574-276-8507. I didn't know they came in glow in 6747. BLUE &GOLD HOMES. Best rates Pool,2ponds,tennis. the dark and different flavors. Contact Chuck at 286-0299. for weekend, monthly &yearly Daily ND transpo avail. A FARM FAMILY NEEDS 2 OR 4 NO/Leeper Park area. Immediate rentals. 574-250-7653. Ideal for 3-5 friends/MBA/grad stu-USC TIX. WILL PAY A FAIR PRICE. Have a good fall break, Alison BABYSIITER Wantedl Family in possession. Great condition! 4BR,2 dents. 654-0169 (local call) Granger-days &nights. Car rqrd. BA $134,500. MLS 203577. ReMax Rooms in private home for rent dur-Will hold for future occupancy. Dear Travis, you are ugly. Love, Kyle 100, Barb Foster, ing NO football weekends or other $1395 all or $300 per room,inc util. I need USC tix. Call Nick at 330­Call Laura 243-4776. 574-968-4208. ND-SMC events. Call 243-0658. 269-683-5163. 207-7434. You Golla Believe 
Friday, Ocwber 14, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 31 
MLB-NLCS 

Astros knock off host Cardinals to even series 
Houston ace Oswalt sftJmies St. Louis in second game ofNLCS 
ST. LOUIS -YPs, it is possibln to win on tlw road in tlw NL championship sPriPs. Hoy Oswalt showPd thP way for llouslon, siiPncing l.lw St. l.ouis Cardinals and all tlwir rnd-clad li111s. 
Oswalt pill"lwd snvnn stnllar innings. rlosnr Brad Lidgn lin­isiH'd up and tlw Astros dnt~~atnd lhl' Cardinals 4-1 Thursday night, PVnning thP bt•st-of-snvnn snriPs at oru• ganw apiPcn. 
llouston scrmmgPd lin· a couph~ of runs oil' Mark MuldPr -onn scoring on a passnd hall, lhn other on Craig Biggio's groundout. Thn Aslros addPd two mort• in tlw Pighth oil' n·liPvl'r .Julian Tavaros. 
Division snrins hPro Chris Burkn camP through again, scoring two runs and driving in anotlwr with a two-out singln in llw nighth -PrHiing llouston's 0-for-14 drought with nrmwrs in scoring position. 
"WPII, I was hardly tlw lwro tonight: Hoy IOswalt! was gn~al: stwPn innings pil.dwd and onn mn: hP baiiPd us out quill' a ~~~w limns," BurkP said. "Luckily. I was abln to gt•t a t'oupln knocks." 
I.idgP t·.arnn on for a two-inning savP. closing out tlw six-hittnr with thn•p striknoul<>. 
Oswalt allowPd only fivn hits, struck out six and didn't lnt a run­nnr past second base nxt:ept for Allwrt l'ujols, who lt~d oil' the sixth with a 4:~X-foot homn run that dnarml tlw llouston bullpen. 
Otlwrwise. Oswalt madn every big pitch lw rwndnd, improving his nm~nr poslsnason rncord to :{-0. 
Tlw Cardinals wnnl 0-for-6 against the right-hander with runners in scoring position. Oswalt twic.n facnd .Jim l·:dmonds with two runnnrs on -and canw out on top both linws against tlw dangnrous lnll-handnd hittnr. 
In the l'il'th, Hdmonds took a callnd third strikn on a :{-2 pitch. Two innings latm·, tlw r.rowd of 52,:~ !iX -rwarly all of them adorned in rnd -was in an uproar al'ter thn Cardinals put runnnrs at first and second with only onn out. 
But Oswalt retired David Hckstnin with a lly ball lo center, tlwn got Edmonds on a groundnr to first -thn last of the starter's I OX pitdws. Oswalt eovnrnd on thn play, pumping his fist after hn took thn flip from l.anen Bnrkman. 
Tho Contra( Division rivals are mnnting in thn NLCS l~u· the snc­ond ynar in a row. and thnir first t~ight ganws all wnnt to thn honw tmun. 
Tho 2004 snrins went the dis­tance, with St. Louis advancing to tlw World Serins by winning four ganws at Busch Stadium. Thn streak continued with thn Cardinals winning !i-:~ in Gamn 1 Wndnnsday. 
Now, St. Louis has to win at lnast orw gamn in Texas -some­thing it couldn't do last yoar -to bring tlw s1~ries ba1:k to soon-to­bn demolished Busch. 

The nnxt thrnn gamos aro in Houston, beginning with Saturday's eontnst matching Hognr Clnmnns of the Astros against St. Louis' Malt Morris. 
"Wn'n~ dnlinitdy plna.<>nd to take onn garnn horn and take the monwntum." Burkn said. "Wn'rn nxdtnd to gnt home to our fans and that placn will bn rocking." 
Burkn's run-sr.oring singln ofT Tavarns gavn tlw Astros a :{-1 load, and tho runnnr camn all the way around to scorn when Adam 1\vnrntt tripled oil' thn glovp, of'lnft­linlder Hnggin Sandnrs. 
Sanders. tho Cardinals' hottest postseason hitter with 12 HBis, foil awkwardly on tho warning track and loft tho gamn. lie sus­tainod a sprainnd lower back. 
Ilouston started quickly against Mulder, b1~ginning tlw gamn with singles by Biggio and Willy Taveras. But Berkman struck out and Morgan Ensbnrg hit into a comcbacknr to Muldnr, who start­ed an inning-nnding double play. 
St. Louis led the majors with 1% doubiP plays during tho rngu­lar soason, and this was thnir ninth in livn posbnason garnos. 
But tho Cardinals l~1ll bnhind filr tho first Limn in the playoii'i whnn llouston pushed an unearned run across in thn socond. 
Burke, who had an 1 Xth-inning homor to elinch an opening-round victory over Atlanta and a pinch­hit homer in Game 1 against St. Louis, got the start in this onll and knpt up his hot streak. 


AP Houston pitcher Roy Oswalt reacts after inducing Cardinals outfielder Jim Edmonds to ground out to end the seventh inning Thursday. 
-
-

page 32 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 14, 2005 
NHL 

Judge tosses lawsuit against Bertuzzi for hit 
Physical forward was charged after catching and punching Moore 
Associated Press 
DENVER -Former Colorado Avalanche forward Steve Moore's lawsuit over a vicious hit by Todd Bertuzzi was dis­missed Thursday, and the judge advised him to take the case to Canada. 
Moore's claims would be better handled in Canada because that's where the hit happened and all the defendants are based there, Denver District Judge Shelley Gilman said. Her ruling was in agreement with attorneys for Bertuzzi, the Canucks and others. 
"British Columbia bears the most significant relationship to Moore's claims," Gilman wrote. She also said a new state law prohibited her from allowing the case to continue. 
Moore hasn't played since the March 8, 2004, game in which Bertuzzi grabbed him from behind, punched him in the head and drove his head into the ice. Moore, who suffered three frac­tured vertebrae in his neck, a concussion and other injuries, testified earlier this month that after months of physical therapy, he has begun training in hopes of rejoining the Avalanche. 
He was seeking unspecified damages from the Canucks, team owner Orca Bay Hockey Limited Partnership, Bertuzzi, coach Marc Crawford, former general manager Brian Burke and former Canucks player Brad May. 
Moore has the right to ask the judge to reconsider or to appeal her ruling. Neither Moore's attorneys nor his agent returned calls seeking comment. 

Moore's attorneys argued that he was a Colorado resident when he was injured and when he filed the lawsuit, giving him the right to seek damages in Colorado. They also said events leading up to Bertuzzi's hit start­ed during a game in Denver on Feb. 16, 2004, when Moore hit Canucks captain Markus Nasland, leaving him with a con­cussion. 
After the February game, Bertuzzi, May -who signed with the Avalanche this summer -Crawford and Burke met in Denver and planned Bertuzzi's hit as retaliation, according to Lee Foreman, Moore's attorney. The lawsuit accused Bertuzzi and the other defendants of civil conspiracy, assault, battery and negligence. 
Foreman argued that the for­mation of the alleged conspiracy in Denver, and the fact that Moore received medical treat­ment in Denver, was enough to allow Moore to pursue his law­suit in Colorado. The judge dis­agreed. 
"The statements allegedly made by the defendants in Colorado do not rise to the level of tortious or unlawful acts," which would be required to prove a conspiracy, she wrote. 
Attorney Mike O'Donnell, who represents the Canucks and Crawford, said the judge accept­ed all the arguments the defen­dants made. 
"The team is pleased, and coach Crawford is pleased, that this case will go forward -if at all -in the Canadian courts," he said. 

Gilman wrote that she was required to dismiss the case under a 2004 state law enacted in response to a large number of cases filed by nonresidents. The law was designed to ensure Coloradans have access to the courts by limiting access by non­residents. 
Factors she had to consider included Moore's residency and citizenship, the fact that he could file his case in Vancouver, the fact that the injury occurred in Canada and the fact that most witnesses are in Canada. She also had to consider whether Colorado law would apply to Moore's claims, and concluded that was highly unlikely for most or all the claims. 
Burke's attorney, Scott Barker, said his client was not in Denver when the alleged conspiracy was formed. 
The ruling doesn't address the merits of the claims," Barker said. "But even taking the alle­gations of the complaint as true, they don't establish a sufficient connection with the state of Colorado." 
Bertuzzi's attorney, Roger Tomasch, was out of the state and unavailable for comment, his receptionist said. 
Bertuzzi faced up to 18 months in prison after Vancouver authorities charged him with assault. He pleaded guilty, and was then sentenced to probation and community service. 
Bertuzzi was reinstated to the NHL in August after being indef­initely suspended and missing 13 regular-season games and the Stanley Cup playoffs in 2004, giving up about $502,000 in salary. He is due to earn about $5.2 million this season. 


IRELAND COMES TO SOUTH BEND ONE NIGHT ONLY: October 16 at 8pm 
at 
Tickets available by phone: (574) 235 9190 or (800) 537-6415 On line: www.MorrisCenter.org 
Wo i<now wrw vo" r;l' AmeticanAirUnes

PERFORMING ARTS CE~TER *SOUTH BEND, IN 
The official airline of Celtic Woman 




Rate Auto Loansl 
low rate on sed autos­ur competition 
st. 




ro,. 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAl CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 

-
----------------------· 

Friday, Octobc.:r 14, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page .33 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL -GOLD LEAGUE 

Stanford can't hold lead, falls to Morrissey 
By BECK! DORNOR and 
CIIRIS HINE 
Stanford camP out strong against Morrissey Thursday with an Party touchdown. but it was not Pnougli to hold ofr tlw Manoritns, who WPrP firing on all cylindnrs in tlw last n~gular scmson gamn at HiehleWnst. an S-(, Morrissey win. 
Stanliwd scorPd lirst on a half­ha('k pass, ynt fiLilnd on tlw two­point convnrsion. i\l'tnrwards, it appeamd that the gamn W<L'> dos­tinml to bnconw a ddimsive show­down with both teams holding thnir own until Stove Kinin of' Morrissny piekml oiT a Stanford pass and rntunwd it fi1r a touch­down. 
Captain Nick Kinin of tho Manorites tlwn punchnd in tho two-point eonversion, which would lw nnough to narn thn vktory li1r Morrissny. But the win was not without a li~w dosn mils. 
Stanf(wd threatennd to go ahnad in the final minutns of tho game, eomplnting a long pass for first­and-goal, hut thn Morrissey dnf(mse hnld tlwm f(w !bur plays. 
Kinin c~onvnynd thn final monwnL<> or the contest wnrn nspo­dally tnnsn. 
"Wn had sonw llashbacks to last wnPk, whPn wn lost to Dillon on a last-minutn touchdown. but this timn. our dd(msn canw through," hn said. 
The Manoritc~s will noed that kind or last-minutn intcmsity in thn upcoming playoffs. Thny aro rc~ady to continue thnir suceoss, but Kinin said a lot is up in tho air dnpnnding on placnmnnt. 
"Wn will bn intomstod to snn how thn snnding goes, with such a rnla­tivdy even talent lnvd in our divi­sion," he said. 
Keenan 12, O'Neill 0 
Tho Keenan defense had four interceptions while tho o[Tonse capitaliznd on good field position to boat tho Angry Mob of O'Neill Thursday night at Hinhln Field. 
Keenan solidilins its spot in the playoff's, while tie-breakers will detormine the fate of O'Neill. 
The Knights' ollimse was lHd by tho quarterback/wide receiver eombination of Hob Coly and Jim Zcmker, who connected three times for 95 yards, and by the legs of Alex Stallinri, who had 11 carries li1r 50 yards, including two touch­downs. 
On the first play of the fourth quartnr, Stallic>ri pownrnd his way into Uw nnd zonn from threo yards to smrn his sncond touchdown. 

Tho Tl> came after a 20-yard punt return by John Wood to tho O'Nnill 39, and a ;{6-yard Znnkor rnception to the 3-yard line. 
On O'Neill's next ollimsivo play, Wood intorenptnd quarterback Matlllughny. 
Keenan then wont thren-and­out, whiln its dnli~nso fim~nd O'Nnill to turn the ball over on downs. The teams traded intnrenptions mobby Rhinesmith intnrcoptnd Coly while~ Brandon Paul picknd ofT llughey) before Knenan ran out the dock. 
Trailing 6-0 aflnr the half, O'Neill had the ball on the Keenan 35 thanks to an interception by Eric Papp. 
But on third-and-one fol,lrth­and-ono, the Keenan line held and tim~nd a turnover. 
Neither team could kick field goals duo to the fact that tho field had no goal posts. Two possessions later, Staflieri scored his second touehdown to make it 12-0. 
Through the first quarter the teams went scoreless. 
Toward the end of the quarter, a Keenan interception allowed its ofl'ensfl to start on tl1o O'Nnill 26. 
The Knights scored eight plays latHr early in tho second quarter on a one-yard run by Staflieri to make it 6-0. 

On the drive, he had live earries for 22 yards, with most of those yards coming alter contact. 
"He's a great runner," Keenan coach Richard Grant said. "When h~ ~~ts stuffed, he can move the pile. 
O'Neill seemed poised to score on the ensuing drive. Behind tho legs of l'ullback Pat Connelly, (six earries filr 44 yards), O'Neill took 11 plays to drive down to the Keenan 13. On third-and-goal l'nnn tho {,-yard linn, lluglwy W<L'> intercepted by Vineo Lyzinski to mndude the half. 

"Our team will work to sharpnn things up and sharpcm our intensi­ty," Grant said. 
llughey w<L'> impressed with tho tlw Keenan defimsn. 
"They playod big up front." llughoy said. "Towards tho cmd of each drivn, wn had to pass and thny had really good eovnragn." 
Contact Becki Dornor and Chris Hine at rdornorl @nd.edu and chine@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish hit the road for the Tyson/En1bassy Suites Invite 
ByCHRIS KHOREY SpomWritcr 
i\l'tc1r setting a school rn•~o rd with th rno straight rounds undnr :{00, hut only finishing fourth at the Shootout at thn Legends, the Notre Dame women's golf team will turn around and hnad south to Hogers, Ark. for the Tyson/Embassy Suites Invitational Sunday, hosted 

by the University of Arkansas. 
Mid-October is the time of year when the golf' schedule traditionally takes a south­ward turn, as weathflr condi­ticms in northern states dote­
saturday night after the USC ga111e 
9:00pm-11:00 pm LaFor-1-ur\e BallrOOM 
free and open to all 



Java&Jazz 


riorate. 
"The number one thing I look for when making the schedule is a highly-ranknd flVent and not so much the location, but obviously towards the late Oetober and early November up here, it's not as good of conditions up here and northern teams aren't hosting tournaments, so we have to go down south," Irish head coach Debby King said. 
Venturing to the south also means competing against southern teams, who, duo to weather advantages, arB usu­ally at the top of collogiatn golf. 
"On average, the southern schools usually dominate the Top 50, but the northern schools do pretty well," King said. "Ohio State has been in the top 10 most of my career." 
The Irish are looking to capitalize on their strong showing at the shootout, where Jane Lee and Katie Brophy both shot career-low 220s. 
Noriko Nagazaki, who l'in­ishHd first for the Irish in their first two tournaments this year, shot a relatively subpar 229. 
King hopos the entire team can put it together in Arkansas this weekend. 
"Just think if Noriko had been on her usual game, we could have broken 290 lat the Shootout]. She just didn't have her A-game last week," King said. "That's the way golf is sometimes. If she's 

back to form and nvnryonn else is ready to go. this could bo one of our bettor nvnnts." 
Lauren (;ebaunr and Lisa Maunu will also eompdn for the Irish this weekend. Suzin llayns will compete as an individual. 
King said scorns as low as those from the Shootout may be hard to come by. 
"This coursn is a little more dif'l'icult than the Legends," King said. "There's a lot more emphasis on placement." 
Still, King said tho tnam is riding high al't.nr its rncord sntting pnrformanc~o. 
"Coming ofT our Lngnnds pnrformanen whore wn had thren rounds under 300, we'rn feeling roally confi­dent," King said. "Wn fncd maybe that we're not ranked as high as wc~ should lw, so we'ro going to go thorn to maybe prove a point." 
Tho field for thn tourna­ment will bn very eompeti­tivn, lead by No. :~ Arkansas. i\11 in all, thn l'inld will host four golfstat.com 
Top 50 tnams, including tlw Hazorbaeks, tho No. 45 Irish, No. 3S Augusta Statn and No. 40 Nebraska. 
King said it will be tho toughest l'ield tho Irish havn faced so far this ynar. 
"This will be a tough field." she said. "Wn'vn been warm­ing up to this event. Arkansas is ranked No. 3 in the coun­try. It will be tough to heat them on their home course." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


-
Friday, October 14, 2005 

page 34 The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles' toughest challenge yet is final six games on road 
The Scots are in second place in 31-29 and were a few points anchor the Belles defense. The part of their schedule with a 9­By RYAN KIEFER the MIAA and own an 8-3 con­from extending, or even win­junior leads the conference, B record, 3-7 in the MIAA, good Sports Writer ference. They are one of the only ning, that match. averaging 5.83 kills per game. enough for sixth place in the teams that has threatened unde­Saint Mary's faced a number Senior middle hitter Talia conference. If the Belles are to Senior night usually signifies feated Hope in the conference of match up problems in the first Matury-Vacaro will also help the move up in the standings, they the end of the season. this year. Alma lost a five-game game as the Scots are a much Belles' net defense. Matury­will need to pull ofT some upsets. Not so for the Saint Mary's vol­decision to Hope earlier this sea­taller team than the Belles. The Vacaro saw limited action in the Saint Mary's faces the top three 
leyball team. son. Belles allowed three Alma play­teams' first meeting due to teams in the conference ­
Following a four-game loss to Alma enters the match follow­ers to record 15 or more kills in injury. Now healthy, the senior Hope, Alma and Calvin -over Adrian College on Tuesday's sen­ing a four-game loss to Calvin thr, first contest. To combat will provide crucial blocking in the course of its next four ior night, the Belles find them­earlier this week. The Scots will thr,se problems Saturday, the the middle of the Belles' defense. matches. selves with six games remaining be looking to rebound against a Belles will have to play a solid Schroeder-Biek stressed the Despite the tough stretch on the schedule, all on the road. Saint Mary's team they defeated dAfensive game. Schroeder-Biek importance of having one of her ahead, Schroeder-Biek said her 
Belles coach Julie Schroeder­in three games earlier this sea­thinks her team is capable this two seniors back in the lineup. team's eonlidence was high. Biek said earlier this season that son. type of defensive effort. "It's really nice to have Talia "We're still very excited about she feels her team is better on The Belles enter the game "We're getting closer and clos­back," she said. "Now we just our goals and we think we can the road because it faces fewer with confidence, knowing the er to becoming a really good have to get her in with the right finish the season strong," she distractions. Her theory will be loss to Alma was much closer defensive team," she said. "With mix of players. We're still getting said. put to the test Saturday when that it seemed. The Belles lost a little more hustle and improve­used to having her as a part of the final stretch begins with a the final two games of that ment we'll be there." our lineup." Contact Ryan Kiefer at tough match at Alma College. match by scores of 30-28 and Libero Anne Cusack will The Belles enter the toughest rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 
SMC SoccER 

Season comes down to final three conference games 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
When most students have gone home to enjoy a relaxing Fall Break, the Belles will be hard at work against the best the MlM conference can throw at them. 
The Saint Mary's soccer team will play three games within the next week against Alma, Olivet and Calvin College. Alma and Calvin will travel to the Belles home turf on the next two con­secutive weekends, while the women will make the trek to Olivet mid-week. 
Calvin is the lone unbeaten squad left in the MIAA with a 9­0 record. Calvin has allowed only one goal to break through its defense the entire season and has put 45 into the opposition's net. 

The last time these two foes met, Calvin walked off its pitch with a 3-0 victory in hand. The Belles played tough but just could not lind a way to push the ball past the wall also known as Calvin's backfield. 
Junior midl'ielder Colleen Courtney said the Belles' aggres­sive attitude is straightforward. 
"Plain and simple, beat them," she said. "Just give them a tough game. We are sticking to how we normally play and domi-

Your Next G-reat Masterpiece 


Draggt![ly 
Paint-Your-Own Fottoy 
Is Just A 
Hours 
M.W.fh: I Oat~~-8plll 

~rush Stroke
Fri-Sat: I Oal!l-9plll Su11: Noo!1-5pl!l Away! Closed Tuesday Last seating for painting IS one hour prior to close 

All Inclusive Paint Your Own Pottery Studio 
Walk-In, Parties, Birthdays, Bridal and Baby Showers, Ladies Night Out, Date Night, Scout Troops, Corporate Teambuilding 
6329 University Commons • South Bend, IN • 574-243-8304 
Across the. st1'eet from Umversity Park Mall between Eme~•ald Cut Salon and K1·oger's Supermark(t 
20?o Off Your Next Visit! 

fhis coopot1 is valid toward 20'7. off your t~ext purchase. 
[xplres:
Not valid on party packages. 
J 


ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cuisine 

......._.._.L___~~t~~~-----------­
Open: Tues.-Sat. Jlam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. andMon.. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering 
------~~~~~~----------­
We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk., Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North 
(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 We are located in Roseland area, near Pendle Road on 3 I 

-
nate." 
Olivet will prove a tough com­petitor for the Belles, as the women look to improve upon their 6-4 MIAA tally, 7-6 overall. Saint Mary's came from behind in late September to knock off Olivet, 2-1. 
Olivet got on the board early in the first half, but two second half Belle goals propelled them into the win column. Olivet is currently nipping on Saint Mary's heels in the standings. The Belles' opponent holds fifth place with a 5-5 record, only a win away from moving into a tie with Saint Mary's. 
One of the Belles biggest con­cerns for the Olivet game is the close proximity it has to their prior game with Alma. They hope they will not be tired for the crucial match-up. 
The first game of the three­game stretch will be the easiest for the Belles. but it will not be a cakewalk. Alma holds a 3-7 record and the seventh MlAA spot. In their last meeting, the Belles triumphed, 3-0, but Alma 
fought  from  start  to  l'inish  
against  the  superior  Saint  
Mary's squad.  

Alma has struggled on ofl'ense with only eight goals against league rivals. The Belles hope to exploit this llaw by getting to an early lead and force the incon­sistent Alma attack to make the mistakes in desperation. 
"We've been having really good games lately," Courtney said. "We had the momentum coming ofT of I lope. Even though we didn't win, it was a really good game and we played the same Iagainst Albion on Wednesday\. Wo had possession the majority of the time; it was good to have a road win." 
The Belles will emerge from tiHl three-game streteh to open their season-ending drive towards a MIAA title with games against Adrian, Tri-State and Kalamazoo College. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 


Monday, October 14, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 3'5 
NO CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish travel to Terre Haute for Pre-Nationals 
Van Ort returns to men's lineup after stress fracture injury; women look for someone to step up as fifth runner 
By CHRIS KHOREY 
Sporrs Writer 
After two straight rneeL..:; on the frierHlly conf'irws of Burke Mmnorial (;olf Course, thn Notro Damn cross country tnams will travPI to TPr-re llaute, Ind. Saturday for tlw Pre-National Mllnt hosted by Indiana State. 
The meet will feature s1weral elite tPams from around tlw 
country, including defending also the same location as the to the NCAAs. mnn's and women's NCAA cham­NCAAs," Irish men's head coach "Last year there wasn't an at pion Colorado. The Bull'aloes are Joe Piane said. "It's an opportuni­large team in the country that currently ranked third on the ty for teams from around the qualified for thn NCAA<> that did­men's side and 11th on the country to race on the course n't run at the pro-national meet," women's. where the NCAAs will be held. Piane said. "I lopefully both of our· 
Just as important, the Irish will When you play football, it's going teams will qualily I for the NCAA..:;I be running for the first time this to be a hundred yards, when you without needing an at-large bid, season at the LaVern Gibson play basketball, it's 1 0-foot bas­but still this weekend it is very Course in Tnrr1l llaute, the homo kets, but every cross country important for us to beat a few of this year's NCAA course is different" teams. Then we have the Big East Championships. Doing well in the Pro-Nationals meet, and wo need to get at­
"It's got a groat field, but it's is also important lor at-large bids large poinl..:; at our own Big East 




Now, 
all your incoming calls can be free. 

mPnt. The rwxt two nwnts arn very important." 
Thn No. 7 Irish men will send a lineup li~aturing evnry returning runner from last year's NCAA meet out for tlw first time this season. .Junior Kurt Bnnningnr and seniors Tim Moore and Snan O'Donnll will lmtd the way, as tlwy have throughout their canlers. Snnior Kaleb Van Ort, junior Todd PtaePk, sophomore Dan Curran. and frnshrnan Patrick Smyth will round out thn Irish line up. 
Van Ort, who last year ran with Benningnr, Moore and O'l>orwll in most rnnets, will be seeing his first action this snason aftnr rnturning from a stress fracturn. 
"It's going to bn a new nxpnl'i­nnen for Kah•b, but if he can run with Dan Curran, Patrick Smyth and Todd Ptaenk. w1~'1l be lirw." l'iarw said. "We bnat a lot of pno­ple without him. so hopnfully wn'll havn a good ehane1l to lwat some p1lopln with him." 
Smyth, who has bPnn a ph•as­ant surprisn to l'iarw with his strong running this year, will racn in tlw most important nwPt. of his y11ung carnnr. 
"lin's tnnacious com1wtitor," l'iarw said. "liP's a wry quiPt kid, but.lw eompetns wry hard." 
For tlw No. S Irish womnn. thP blazing fast top fintr that all lin­islwd in the top 15 of thP Notrn Danw Invitational -senior AII­Anwrkan Stnphann Madia, senior two-time AII-Anwrican Molly lluddle. National Catholic Champion Sunni <llding and promising fn~shman Bamsey Kavan -will all be in thn litwup fin· tlw Pre-Nationals. 
Tlw issue fin· t.lw Irish n•mains finding a lifth runner who will lw dosnr to thn top four than tlw Mah placn finish Jean Marinangeli nndnd up with at t.lw Notn~ DamP Invitational. Snnior Elizabnth Wnbstnr, junior KaitP DeBusso and Marinangnli will all try to dose tlw gap with tlw top ftHII' and bnconw tlw lifth rumwr the Irish rwPd to r.ompetP for tlw national championship. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
~------­
.. _____ 1 
......

: VERA BRADLEY : 
'20°/o off with ND/SMCStu.I.O. 1 

I I 

East Bank Emporium R.,;taurant Bldg. 1 121 S. ~ik'Sc\W .. (574)232-8488 I 
L. 
--------_J 

ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 232-8444 


FOR SALE: 29 peaceful acres 22 miles from Notre Dame. This buildable site
~US. Cellular 

has a 6-acre pine forest and great 
IX/(, cwmed witlt you: 

hunting for deer, quail, turkey and pheasant. Aplace for you and your 
friends to stay Forever! monH•IY charge date. In order to receive j)lan minutes the monU11V charge must be !mid before yr~1r monU1Iy d1arqe date. Vbu will be unabkl to use yaur phOM, Including any l)ilckage or free minutes, If Um account baL1ncc IS negative at any time. Unlimited CAll ME'" Minutes promotion IS only avwlable on TalkTracker r.·ackerPack Plans S40 and higher. Unlimited CAll ME Minutes are not deducted fron1mont11~ 1y package m1nutes and are available in your home calling area. Unlimited Night and Weekend Minutes promotion is only available on TalkTracker TrnckerPack Plans $50 and higher. Nigllt and Weekend Minutes 
Prornohofial otter requires 0(.-tiv~tion of a new TalkTracker"' service WiUl $30 at:tivation fee. TmckerPat:k'" plan minutes and overage rate5 apply to home area calls. Package minutes ilPJJIY 30 days from YOUf 
Pam Craft, RE/MAX Central
am vuhd Monday·fmlay 9 p.m. to 5:59a.m. and all day Saturday and Sunday, and are only available in horne calling area. ForTalkTrackercoverageand resbictians.seecoveragemapwilhin brochure. Promotional Phone'" "'lllje<;l tu r.hange. $30 mail-In rebate requiroo and iS mly available on TalkTracker Trnckerl'ack plans $30 and higher. Allow 10. t2 weekS lor rebate l)l'UCeSSing, Addibanal tem1S and conditions apply 
(800) 787-2311
tor allnflors. Soo stores tor details. Lnnlted time offer <l:':l2005 U.S r-etlular r,orpomllon. 
Friday, October 14, 2005 

page 36 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S TENNIS 


Team faces tough test in visiting USC squad 

By RYAN KIEFER 
Sports Writer 
Before the Irish and Trojans clash on the football field this weekend, the two schools will take to the tennis courts in what is being called "The Battle before the War." 
Today's match against Southern California marks the first dual meet on the women's tennis fall schedule. 
The Irish will faee tough competition this afternoon at the Eek Tennis Pavilion as the Trojans bring five ranked play­ers to South Bend. 
Coach Jay Louderback expects Southern California to field a tough squad this after­noon. 
"They have a solid lineup, especially in singles," he said. "They are a very deep team." 
The Irish will face several tough opponents in singles including the No. 9 in the country, Lindsay Nelson. The Trojans will also enter fresh­man Amanda Fink in the line­up against Notre Dame. Fink is coming ofT a semifinal showing at the first grand slam of the year, the All-American cham­pionships. After Fink, the rest of the Southern California line­up is comprised of upperclass­men. 
Louderback said having experience brings an obvious advantage. 
"They have a veteran team with a lot of girls who have played for a number of years," he said. "That makes them tough throughout the lineup." 
Notre Dame has plenty of talent of its own to counter the Trojan attack. 
Christian and Catrina Thompson will lead the Irish this afternoon. The twin sisters are coming off a gut-wrench­ing win in the finals of the All­American doubles champi­onship. The win was the first grand slam title in Notre Dame women's tennis history. 
In addition to lilling the No.1 doubles slot against the Trojans, the Thompsons will fill the top two singles spots as well, with Catrina expected to play No.1 and Christian expected to play No. 2. 
The Thompsons' early results in singles have been a pleasant surprise for the Irish. Both had strong showings in the All-American Championships, as they both advanced to the qualifying round. Christian compiled a 5­1 record with all wins coming against ranked opponents, while Catrina went 2-1 at the tournament. 

The rest of the Irish squad will be excited to join the Thompsons for the first time in competition this season. While the Thorn psons spent time at the All-Americans, the rest of the team competed in the Hoosier Invitational Oct. 1 in Bloomington. 
Brook Buck and Kelsey Tefft highlighted the team's per­formance at that tournament as the two teamed up to win the doubles title. Buck and Tefft will play No. 2 doubles this weekend. The two will also be entered into the singles lineup, with Buck filling the No. 3 position and Tefft com­peting at No. 6. 
The bottom of the Irish line­up will play a pivotal role in the Irish's success today. Solid play will be needed to combat Southern California's depth. Veterans Lauren Connelly and Kiki Stastny will play No.3 doubles and No. 7 and No. 5 singles, respectively. Freshman Katie Potts will play No. 4 sin­gles, and senior Kelly Nelson will round out the lineup at No. 8. Potts and Nelson will complete the doubles lineup at No.4. 
Louderback knows the match wilL be very good com­petition, but is confident in his team's ability. 
"I think we're a much stronger team in singles this year," he said. "I also think this match will be a good test for our doubles teams too. We were solid in doubles last year, but I think we're even better this year." 
Louderback was also excited for the opportunity to play a dual match, the format most oftfm used in the spring season. 
"It's nice to play something that's similar to the spring," he said. "It's a lot di!Ierent. There are such big momentum swings in dual matches. We need to get our girls, especially our freshmen, used to this type of competition." 
Despite USC's prowess, Louderback felt his team could challenge the Trojans. 
"We feel right now that we can compete with any team in the country," he said. 
Contact Ryan IGefer at rkiefer1@nd.edu 

Lafayette Square Townhomes 
4 and 5 bedrooms on 3 levels of living all including: 
• Dishwashers 
• 
Washers and Dryers 

• 
ADT Security Systems 


*NEW MANAGEMENT SPECIAL* 
Only $210 Per Person For the first 10 Apartments Leased for the 06-0 7 School Year 
574-233-5704 or Nicole_Soko@hotmai l.com 
Pivotal matches will determine outcome of Notre Dame's season 
By KATE GALES 
Associate Sporrs Editor 
As tough as the USC football team is. its thnir formidable counterparts on the tennis courts could provide just as much of a chalhmge to the Irish as the two teams face each other in an exhi­bition match with the women's squads on Friday night. 
The Trojans bring a formidable history to the Eck Tennis Pavilion, with 15 NCAA Championships (most recently 1994), 16 singles championships and 20 doubles titles, the most in the nation. 
"Their team is traditionally very strong," head coach Bobby Bayliss said. "This year, I think we're better [than we were last yearl. and I think we can make it pretty darn competitive." 
Notre Dame's Eric Langenkamp recently competed in the ITA Polo Ralph Lauren All­America Championships, upset­ting the nation's No. 15 player in the consolation round before bowing out. 
Langenkamp will play fourth on the Irish in singles. Stephen Bass leads the team, followed by Sheeva Parbhu and Brett Helgeson rounding out the top thrne. After Langekamp, Patrick Buchanan, Ryan Keckley, Andrnw Roth and Yuichi Uda or Santiago Montoya will be on the courts for the Irish. 
Veteran lrackli Akhvlediani is sick and cannot pay for the Irish this weekend. 
"There's a lot to see, we're pretty exeited," Bayliss said. "We feel thny have one of the great traditions in all of college tennis ... I feel like !USC head coach! Pntnr Smith is one of' the best coaehns in college tennis." 
According to Bayliss, thn USC tennis team has traveled with thn football team to Notre Dame each fall to play an exhibition match the day before the football game. 
Smith corning to South Bend is also a human-interest thread in the story. 
"lie was the coach at Pepperdine who rnentored [cur­rent Irish assistant] Todd [Doebler!. so it has a nice human element to it," Bayliss said. 

Bayliss said that all the players have worked hard in the ofT-sea­son to improve their particular weaknesses. 
"Each player's areas for liabili­ty and stren!-,rths are difierent ... it would really vary [which changes are visible but] certainly those things are there," Bayliss said. 
The team has matured togeth­er as each team works on indi­vidual improvement, but also on winning as a team. 
Doubles is a foeus for Bayliss. The top Notre Dame team of Langenkamp and Keckley has already registered two upsets of Top-25 teams this season, both at the Tom Fallon Invitational held at Notre Dame on Sept. 23­25. 
Parbhu and Helgeson, Bass and Roth and Buchanan and Montoya round out the Irish dou­bles teams that will compete today. 
"They have a well-balanced team and play very good dou­bles," Bayliss said. "We antici­pate a really close match." 
The bottom singles matches take the courts at 4 p.m., fol­lowed by the doubles matches and then the top singles match­es. The matches will be played in conjunction with the Irish women taking on the USC women's tennis teams. 
After the hard work of the off­season, the team is ready for competition. 
"I think it will be highly com­petitive and we're looking to have a chance to win," Bayliss said. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 


Trojans challenge Irish in tennis 
Coming off first ITA win, Notre Dame looks to topple No. 7 USC 

Friday, October 14, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 37 
Huskies 
continued from page 40 
play this ynar. as Irish dnrnrulnr Christin Sha1wr has IPd tho barkl'inld in its past thrn1~ ganws. l'lankPd by standouts Kim l.orPnZPn, Carrit' llnw and ot.lrnrs. 
Waldrum said lw p1'1'1Htrnd his tPalll to rarn dirrl'rl'nt looks than Conrrnl'lin1t has showrr its othnr opporwrrts. 
"Wt' nxpncl ICon1wdirut jurr­iorl Nikki Cross will probably play up rrorrt," hP said. "I know shP usually plays irr tlw bark ... hut thny'll show us a rnw dirrnr­nnt looks." 
Waldrum said anotlwr kPy to till' ganw ror tlw Irish will bn rnPding of'f tlw nnPrgy at Alumni hPid. 
"I think wn always do wnll Friday nights under thn lights," he said. 
Waldrum notPd that his team malizns that it will not just play Connneticut this wnnknnd. 
Tho Irish host Providence Sunday, in a game whose origi­nal starting timn the athletic dnpartmnnt movnd to noon. 
AftPr fivP days oiT. the Irish rnturn to action with anotlwr two-gamn snt at Alumni FiPid bnginning Friday, Oct. 21 with a matrh against Villanova. Thny l'inish thPir rngular-soason sdwduln Sunday, Oct. 23 against (;norgntown. 
Waldrum said tho Irish will not takn those two tPams lightly. 
Thn Irish nntnr this wm~kend with a load or three points over Villanova and five points over (;norgntown, with nach tnam having played 7 of' its 11 conf'er­nncn matchns. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 


Freshman forward Kerri Hanks sends a pass during Notre Dame's 6-0 victory over DePaul at Alumni Field on Sept. 16. Hanks leads the Irish with 18 goals on the season. 

Junior Tom Sawatske, left, and senior Chris Trick skate towards the puck during the annual Blue-Gold game Saturday. 


leers 
continued from page 40 
stratngies worked on in ice sit­uations and on the chalkboard. 
The up-tnmpo style that Jackson is trying to initiate in an Irish squad that produced limited o('f'(mse last season will take some time to implement, but he has bnen optimistic about its narly results. 
Onn goal scored in the Blue­Gold game particularly impn~ssed Jackson, giving him a glimpsn into thn quicknnss with which his new tnam is catching on. 
"One goal was a f'ace-oiT goal that wo just talked about this morning, w11 nover evnn prac­ticed it," he said. "They do retain things. That's a real positive thing to pick things up off the chalkboard." 
Several freshmen gave a 
strong showing last week and got in on s11veral goals. Erik Condra and Garrett Hegan found the back of the net once apieee, and Condra got in on another with an assist. Christian llanson contributed with an assist or his own. 
But don't expect Jaekson to create a line of the future with these three young snipers ­he wants to spread them amongst the older playnrs to gain experience: 
"There's two things that we have to have. We have to have guys that think thn gamn, cerebral players as I call them or players with a high hockny I.Q," Jackson said. 
"The other thing is eom pnti­tiveness; they have to compete. That's a huge factor to er!1at­ing orfense, you have to think the game, make good decisions with th11 puck, and guys have got to read off of each other. I think that that's an important factor to us scoring goals this year and that's a hugn rac.tor to the power play, tlw special tnams." 

Tho Warriors arn 2-1 in nxhibition play so rar this sna­SOIL Thny knocknd orr thl' Univnrsity or British Columbia :{-2 and tho Gu11lph Gryphons 5-4 to takn thn Stnnl Blade Tournamnnt. Cup last week. The Hochest11r Institute of Tndmology took a 5-4 dneision in its last game. 
Junior Dave Brown will start in net for the Irish. Frnshman Jordan PiMcc will most likely substitute between the pipes for the second half. 
"It's s ti II in tlw n v a.lu ation stagn for me," Jackson said or his plan to placn players together ror the future. 
Thn Irish will tak1~ to l.lw ict~ at 7::Ei p.m. tonight, rollowing the pep rally in Notre Damn Stadium. 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles set for finalS,000-111eter race 
Miller said this wnekend's Bautors had her team work 
By KEN FOWLER 
Spons Writer 
One last 5-K. That's what tlw Manehnstnr 
Collngn Invitational is  ror  the  
Bnllns.  
f.'rnshman  runnnr  Alicnn  

Milll'r and snnior standout Bneky Fnauto said Saint Mary's rurrners are hoping to snt per­sonal bnsts in thnir l'inal l'ivn­kilometnr nu:n of tlw season and continuo thn tnam's monHHlttrrn al"tnr a rourth-placn l'inish in tlw 27-tnam Eagln Invitational. 
"Since wn round out that it's a 5-K, a lot or tlw girls arn rnally PXrited to try and Sl't pPrsonal lwsts," J.'eauto said. 
Thn ra1·1~ will bn last in J.'nauto's collngiatn carnnr at tlw dislanrn. and she hopns to llrPak thP 20-minute mark. 
Fnauto said lhat. strong indi­vidual racPs should lwlp tlw BniiPs in tlw overall tPalll eom­pPI.ition. 
Ma11y or Saint Mary's top run­llnrs lhis year have bonn frnsh­mell. a11d tlu•ir times will bn ITtwial i11 dntermining how the Belles ran•. 
Aft1~r last Friday's nu:e ill l.isln. Ill.. hnad coach .laekin Bautnrs said Miller and hnr rei­low rl'l~shnwn had shown stnady iIll Jl roVI'1111'11 I. 
l'ive-kilomnter race for the Bnllns of'fnrs them an easier cours11 in their linal race at that distancn. 
"I'vn heard this course is a good course to lset personal records] at," Miller said. 
Dnspitn the team's lack of a history at the course, Millnr said thn Belles are confid11nt al"tnr last wnekerid's meet. 
"Last wneknnd was huge ror us," she said. "A lot of' people stepped it up. 
"We're really excited for this wenkend." 

this week and last on ehanging the groups in which the Belles run during the meet. Miller said that the regrouping is a work in process. 
"In workouts, we've ... tried to switch up whose leading lthe packs]," she said. "It's getting thern. Thnre's still improvement nended to be made." 
Feauto and junior Sara Otto hope to f'inish elose to, if not under, 20 minutes. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

~ 

Homes for Sale near NO 
Open Houses -Sun 2-4 pm 

409 Napoleon 
$119,900 

• 
4 blocks from NO • 3 Bedrooms 

• 
Fenced yard 

• 
Garage 


928 Niles Avenue 
$118,900 
• 4 bedrooms • 1.5 baths 
• 
Attached Garage 

• 
River View 




Real effort. Real results.~ Faith Fleming. 
Broker Associate 

Cressy&Everett11 
574-233-6141
REAL ESTATE 
574-280-7760 vm 


Write Sports. Call Mike at 1-4543. 
..... 

page 38 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 14, 2005 
teams could be battling it out wards Lapira and Justin for a chance to play in the McGeeney. Lapira lnads the


Hoyas 

later rounds of the conference team with nine points and continued from page 40 tournament and solidify a Norman adds eight. 
berth in the NCAA Although the tnam is coming means the team needs confer­Tournament. ofT a hard-fought tie, the Irish ence wins for favorable seed­Although the Irish have not are relatively rested going into ing in the Big East been able to their road trip. Tournament, which begins establish a long "A tie on the
"/ think everybody 
Nov. 1. winning run, road at 
"I think everybody realizes team leaders realizes the importance Michigan State the importance of the last five have stepped up of the last five games. " wasn't the games," Clark said. "They're in a year of worst result," all very important. They'd all rebuilding. Greg Clark said. "It's be nice to win." Dalby has shone Bobby Clark not going to 
Notre Dame returns home as an anchor in Irish coach hurt us if we after the road trip to face the defense and can take some-Indiana and Seton Hall. midfield, and · thing out these 
The season has been rocky Chris Cahill has worked hard three games." at times as the Irish have to become a leader in the net. The Irish hope to bring wins struggled to find a rhythm. Defenders Ryan Miller and home to South Bend for their 
"It's been a season that's John Stephens are tied for the final homestand. ebbed and flowed a little bit," team lead in assists, with "Winning's a habit and not Clark said. "There's been three (also tied with Joe winning's a habit," Clark said. some good and bad. It would Lapira). "The important thing is to get be nice to hit a little run." In the midfield, players have baek into that good habit of 
Georgetown is 3-4 in confer­not been hesitant to get winning." ence play and sixth in the Big involved in the scoring, with East's Blue Division to Notre Nate Norman tied for the team Contact Kate Gales at Dame's fourth. Providence lead in goals (three) with for-kgales@nd.edu 

boasts a record of 2-1-4, good for fifth place, and Pittsburgh is 2-5 for seventh. These 


Recruits 
continued from page 40 
"All of tlw guys coming in arn big-time guys," Frank said. "They're guys that are wantnd very much so by this coaching staff." 
Quarterback Jimmy (:Iauson is the highnst-profile junior coming in for thn game. Frank expects him to bP tlw No. 1 recruit!~d signal-caller in tlw nation 1wxt season. Scout.com lists Southern California as another sehool that is showing inten~st in him lwsides Notre Dame. 
Two of Notre Damn's top three ddensivn tackle prospeets, Butch Lewis and Gerald McCoy, will be present. So will a couple of blue-chip linebackers in Toryan Smith and Anthony Lewis. 
The main problem, accord­ing to Frank, with bringing in such marquee recruits for tlw USC game is then~ is a possi­bility the game will turn out like it has the past three sea­sons. 
"It's a gamble -if they get blown out like they have the past three years I don't think )the game) will make a good impression in the slightest," Frank said. "They have to play well and look good while play­ing well. It's a gamble, but I think )Irish coach) Charlie Weis and his staff know what they're doing." 
However, if tight end Paddy Mullen is right, Notre Dame should have nothing to worry about. 
"I think tlwir chances to win are very high," said Mullen, who verbally committed to Notre Damn in April. "I think tlw Irish are really eonf'ident co1~~ing in, and tlwy should be. 
For Mullen, thn weekend will be a thrilling !JIW. Arter his St. Louis-an~a high school plays tonight at 7 p.m., Mullen will drivn with his parents part of tlw way. lin will arrive in South Bend Saturday morn­ing in time to gnt his tiekPts around 10 a.m. 

• "I can't wait." Mullen said. "It's going to be an unbeliev­able atmosphere." 
• 
Contact Mike Gilloon at 
mgillon@nd.edu 


YOUr< CATEf<ING  
$0LUTIONJJJ  
BIIX LUNCHES, PLATTERS, PARTIES!  
DELIYEIY ORDERS will include a  
delivery charge per item.  
FREE81E$ !SUSS & CUISS ONLY)  
Onion, lettuce. alfalfa sprouts, tomate. mayo, sliced  
cucumber, Dijon mustard. oil &vinegar, and oregane.  

• WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK tr 
54570N.IRONWOODDR. SOUTH BEND/MISHAWAKA 5343N.MAINST.
57 4.277.8500 57 4.968.4600 
''YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOHN'S!'' © 
-

Friday, October 14, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 39 
-------~-----------------------------------------------------------------­
ERIK POWERS & ALEC WHITE
JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOM
CROISSANTWORLD 
I-IE:.LLO, WELWME 
-ro Nc:>fRE. OAME. DI.JE-TO i<:h.£.Nr 
LANDSCAPIN(J, 

foOr6A ll.. PA ~KIN ll 
HAS BE.EI" 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  27 Cornerstone  46 Bag holder  
1 Gallery sign  word  50 Period of  
6 It may lead to cooler heads  26 Wool source 29 Author Rand  greatest success  
14 Stupid creep, slangily 16 Near-slave  30 Sober 32 "Bwana Devil" was the first one  52 Unrestrained parties 53 Look  
worker  34 Happy-go-lucky  54 Fake  
17 Ape  36 They may be  55 Architects' work  
18 Catalog 19 1993 A.L. batting champ John 20 Year the National University of Mexico was  turnoffs: Abbr. 39 Fine, in slapstick 40 Ballpark figs. 41 Unstable lepton 42 Temple part 43 Realizes  DOWN 1 Unbreathable part of an atmosphere 2 Kind of TV 3 Come into one's own  
founded 22 Price abbr.  44 Approached rapidly  4 Firewood measures  
23 More likely to please 24 Newport rival 25 Tamiroff of "For  45 Cousin of a chickadee 46 Frank Sinatra's "Meet Me at the "  5 "It's all ("I can't remember") 6 Installed  
Whom the Bell 47 Fritz of the Tolls" Chicago 26 Suffix with social Symphony ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  7 Tennessee River tributary 8 Announcement at the table 9 Start of a Mozart title 10 Daughter of Hyperion 11 Shipping charges? 12 Exposure 13 Loses one's  27 Chrysler Building architect William Van 26 Charge 30 Seymour _, the Father of Supercomputing 31 Pardner's mount 33 "_goes"  34 Bygone haircut 35 Old armory stock 37 Adored 36 Causes of some domestic disturbances 41 Trader Vic invention 43 Au contraire  44 French royal called "LeBon," and others 46 College figure 47 "Coriolanus" setting 49 More, musically 51 It comes in many vols.  
cool  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a15 Site of a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554.!!!!~···· pitchers' lineup? Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
-=+=f'~=-21 Easily-used crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.

people 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,00024 Substantially past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).(in) 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 25 Jai solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two eampusns. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
1-\E:.R£. IS A PARf..-1 N Lt PA'>S fOR. IkE. 11 Y'II-\EI':E-11-IE:-<.orH'U!">IoN, Ep..u-\ 
f-tEU. 1\RF 'WE.'' LOT, L.o·r I·IAS BEE.~ 'WI-\1~ \S -.ru::.r COLOR -<.ODI:.D NORTH 0~ Tl-\ E. I'V\111\-1 A P\ FVE.g.C."'I 
"PRE:\T'j A<.EA~IN SI-IADE Of' u~Ef'.N 




F~ff 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
WILLSHORTZ 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
JJr~WI1IR 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ACCOO 

I ( J 
C2005 Tribune Media SeiVtces, Inc.



i;fflJ 
I TEEBEL ± 
USING A C.ARNIVAL­
TO DRAW C..US­

I I ( J 
www.Jumble.com 
TOM!::RS TO HOM!:: SIT!::S C..Rf::AT!::D--­
tOULLAS 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J (] I I 

suggested by the above car· 
Answer here: 

'l I I I ]" OF ( I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday' IJumbles: EPOCH VALVE REDEEM MELODY s Answer: What the scrawny worker did in the 
darkroom-"DEVELOPED" 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 

uuoJ )""1.·"• ._tv ll"' .,,..,..,..., ~ov ..,...,, ,.,.,.,.. ............. '""' ,.... , .... .... v'""" ....... • ""' n..,.,,,u._.,.., ....... ov, 
27,30,34,39,42 ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): You arc energized today, so lake the opportunily 
-

to do something nice I(Jr someone else. Your kind gesture will open a doorway to a chance meeting or someone influential. A sudden change in your linancial siluation is apparent. .... TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You may fed like making some changes lo your surroundings. Run your plans by the people who will be alli.:cted by your choices. Not everyone will be oflhc same mind-set.•• GEMINI (Mny 21-.Junc 20): Nolhing will be loo much trouble I(Jr you today. You will be sharing your intcllccltlal ideas wilh people who arc just as visionary as you. Don't let someone you arc emotionally al!achcd to rain on your parade. 
***** 

CANCEl{ (.June 21-.luly 22): You may lind il dillicul!to get along with everyone today. Nagging willnol gel you whal you want. A chance lo make some money is evident. Real estate deals or handling an older relative's important papers or cash will lead to your own gains. ••• LEO (.July 23-Au~:. 22): You'll probably be dramatic about cvcrylhing loday. A little flair will draw allcnlion. Now is lhe lime to ask people lo relurn favors so Ihal you can pull orr something spectacular. Don't lose your temper or act sellishly. ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): Don'l even think aboul le!ling personal problems disrupl your work ethics. You have a chance to really do wdl proli.:ssionally right now, so don't waste time. Change will be favorable regardless of what il is. ••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A change in your career may be quilc sudden. A partnership appears to be in the works. The people you meet and lhc places you end up going will help you reach new levels if you do some networking. ••••• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Watch out for someone who is out to get you. Don't share your wisdom, ideas or your plans. Someone will make you angry or become angry wilh you if you act complacent. •• SAGITTARilJS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Everything will be on the line if you have been taking risks with your money. Sudden changes arc apparent, and someone isn't likely to be too happy with the choices you make. You will land on your feet. •••• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): It's all ahout work and doing your job well. You have the stamina and the knowledge to finish whalcver you start. A contract will be signed, sealed and delivered. ••• ­AQUARIUS (Jun. 20-Feb. 18): You have so much going f(Jr you, so don't sit around doing nothing. Move ahout and listen to what others have to say. Your observance will pay ofT. A change in your position is apparent. ••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will have to watch out f(Jr someone who has infonnation that you don't want spread around. A prohlcm with the way you look may interfere with your chance to move forward. Unique is good, hul not when you need to tit into a position thai calls fiJr confonnity.... Birthday Baby: Your talent comes easy and your options arc plentiful. You arc exciting, adventurous and very quick to respond. You arc disciplined and courageous. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com jhrfun. eugenialast.comjiJr confidential consultations 
-

r-------------------------------------------~-------­
THE OBSERVER 






PORTS
Friday, October 14, 2005 
page 40 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 

Rivals of their own 
Top two teams in Big East ready to meet on Alumni Field tonight 
By KEN FOWLER SportS Writer 
Rivalry weekend at Notre Dame kicks off Friday at 7:30 
p.m. when the Irish host Connecticut in a Big East showdown on the same week­end as the Notre Dame-USC football game. 
The No. 7 Irish (12-2-0, 6-1­
0) and No. 15 Huskies (11-2-1, 7-0-0) lead their respective divisions in the realigned con­ference and each hope for a big win against a solidified opponent. 
The soccer rivalry between UConn and Notre Dame is the biggest in the Big East in the course of the year, and Friday will be the only time the two schools play in the regular sea­
SOIL 
Irish head coach Randy Waldrum said the two teams have a history of excellence within the conferencn. 
"Over the six years I've been hero, it's been us and UConn," he said. 
The Irish are coming ofT a 2­0 weekend in eonfenmce play in which they only allowed three shots on goal. They have posted three consecutive 
HOCKEY 


Preseason ends lVith Waterloo 
Retooled Notre Dame -faces Golden Hawks in preparation game 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame hockey coach Jdf Jackson is still in the P.arly stages of rebuilding a program that went through a 2004 season that all would like to forget, but he is satis­fied with the progress already made. 
The 2005 Irish will measure themselves against their first opponent of the year tonight as they take on the University of Waterloo Warriors in a preseason exhibition. Last Saturday, the Irish icers played a split-squad season kickoff scrimmage that ended in thrilling fashion with an 



Left wing Mike Walsh moves up ice Oct. 7, 2004 in Notre Dame's opener against Minnesota-Duluth. The teams tied, 2-2. 
extra overtime period and a shootout. 
Jackson stressed that his team is playing to win the exhibition without doubt, but that the team is still coming together as a unit. lie wants to see his team pick up on the 

see ICERS/page 37 
SMG X>GOUNTRY 
Manchester Invitational 
The Belles hope to continue their success in final their five-kilometer race. 


page 37 


TIM SULLIVAN!The Observer Irish forward Katie Thorlakson dribbles past a Cincinnati player during Notre Dame's 4-0 victory over the Bearcats Sept. 23. The Irish host No. 15 tonight at Alumni Field. 
shutouts sincn losing badly to Notre Dame will likely have a Marquette, 4-1. distinct advantage going into 
"I like the way that we've the tournament if the Irish rebounded since the Marquette win, Waldrum said. game," Waldrum said. "I think "We've got a great chance of we're really confident about getting a first-round bye and where we arc." getting a home game in that 
Where the Irish are is atop second round," he said. the division and looking for a The Irish must win first, and first-round bye in the upcom­that requires shutting down ing conference tournament. Connecticut's explosive 
MEN'S TENNIS 
USC at Notre Dame 

The Irish and the Trojans have much at stake in this crucial match. 

page 36 
The men's and women's teams travel to Terre Haute for a national competition Saturday. 

page 35 
oiTense. 
IIe attributed his team's past success against the Huskies to solid defensive play. 
"Over the years, what we've been able to do [in wins! is be very good defP.nsively," he said. 
They have thf~ talent to con­tinue that strong defensive 
see HUSKIES/page 37 


FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Dozens of prospects to attend USC game 
23 senior recruits, 
. . . 

seven ;unzors arrzve on campus visits 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 

There is much at stake for No. 9 Notre Dame in its game Saturday with No. 1 Southern California. But it concerns more than Saturday's final score. 
With 30 recruits on both unofficial and official visits to campus scheduled for this weekend, the Irish hope to give a good look to the 23 sen­iors and seven juniors in attendance. 
SMC VOllEYBAll 
The Belles face their final six games of the regular season on the road. 
page 34 
MEN'S SOCCER 


No.8 Irish ready for the Hoyas 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
ThP. Irish will hit the road during fall break for three conference games that could have huge postseason impli­cations. 
Most recently tying Michigan State 0-0 on Tuesday, Notre Dame faces Georgetown on Saturday at 1 p.m., Providence on Wednesday at 3 p.m. and Pittsburgh on Oct. 22 at 1 p.m. 
The Irish traditionally schedule a road trip to the East Coast during fall break in order to minimize missed classes. 
"It's a lot, but it's one of the things we've got to do becausP. of the elass-missed policy," Irish head coach Bobby Clark said. "This is a way that gets us to play three 
games  without  too  many  
classes missed."  
The Irish are  7-4-2  on  thP.  

season (3-3-1 Big East) with only five games remaining in the regular season. 
A heartbreaking 2-1 home loss to Connectieut on Oct. 8 
see HOYAS/page 38 
"If Notre Dame wins, they'll have a hugP impn~ssion on these guys," recruiting expert Mike Frank of lrislwyes.com said. "Even if the Irish lose, but play well, they'll have a positive impression." 
Among the recruits who will be watching to sP.e if the Irish can break a streak of three straight 31-point losses to the Trojans will be 11 players who have already verbally commit­ted to Notre Dame. The group will be highlighted by quarter­back Zach Frazer and running back James Aldridge. Both verballed to the Irish last spring and are rated No. 10 and 7 in the nation by Scout.com at their positions, respectively. 
see RECRUITS/page 38 

IRISlj INS~DER SA~;···.··..·CTOBER 15,2005
.J · 30P.M.THE IRJSli .•• .~. TO SNAP! AS'l"RBAi 
Ol TH1Um ·...•···.. HT 3l~POINti.OSSES -~.~···.···,···'' ..~
TO~ , ": ONE RANKED USC.
,.,.._ .
.~ 
-


..-------------------~ 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 14, 2005 


1988,1993 ••• the Irish can do it 
It was only yesterday. On second thought, it was six years ago. 
No. 1 Nebraska had fallen on its heels, and on Sept. 9, 2000, the Irish were on the verge of toppling the best team in the coun­try. 
More than half of the fans in Notre Dame Stadium were draped in red. Some Notre Dame fans­you know who you are ­had despicably sold their tickets to the trekking Husker faithful. And when Nebraska quarterback Eric Crouch scampered into the left corner of the end zone for the overtime clincher, hearts sank. 
Fans walked to their cars, heads down. I even remem­ber saying to my father as I exited the Stadium, "We had 'em, Dad." People were furi­ous, frustrated and perhaps most importantly, disappoint­ed. 
Why? 
Because Notre Dame was good enough to do it. They had the talent and the oppor­tunity to beat-and be ­the best. 

That was six years ago. 
Now, on campus, in experts' predictions and in the rational thought of Irish fans everywhere, Notre Dame has a chance. The tal­ent and opportunity are back. 
"No team is unbeatable," Irish defensive end Chris Frome said. 
The team believes. No mat­ter how many answers Irish players give about Saturday's contest being "just another game," it's not. They know it's not. 
On Saturday, a team Notre Dame uses as its barometer for success comes to town with a 27 -game winning streak, the defending Heisman Trophy-winner and an attitude that says, 'We know we're good.' 
When asked Tuesday about playing in Notre Dame Stadium, USC quarterback Matt Leinart said: "It's fun. I'm excited to go back." 
It's fun? How the Irish detest losing to Southern California. 
In 2003, Tyrone Willingham's team lost 38-0 to Michigan. Irish fans were distraught, but they had excuses: it's Michigan; they play well at home; the series always goes back and forth. 
But on Oct. 18, 2003, when Southern California walked into Notre Dame Stadium and beat the pants off the Irish in a 45-14 clubbing, 
219 N. Front Street Niles, Ml 49120 269-684-2233 www. nilesriverf rontcafe. com 
**Located in downtown Niles 10 minutes from the University 


seats emptied early. It had been the second year in a row USC had won by 31. So when it happened the next year, Willingham lost his job. And now, coach Charlie Weis has Notre Dame on the verge of accomplishing more than he promised in his first season. 
Weis has Notre think about Dame on the verge of lose Saturday. Charlie Weis, "People 
"When I if the Irish 
accomplishing more
I think about hesitate to confidence," than he promised in say that we're defensive his first season. a great team per game. They are so good, Irish nose tackle Derek Landri said he believes they beat some teams before they even take the field. 
But there will most likely be a large following of Notre Dame fans who will have 
their heads 
down in dis­
appointment 

tackle Trevor Laws said. 
"I think our team is starting to reflect the attitude of our head coach," defensive end Victor Abiamiri said. "We're buying into what he's trying to teach." 
Not athletic director Kevin White, not Weis himself could have had expectations of greatness. Weis only promised his team would be prepared week-in, week-out. 
If anything, though it sounds pessimistic, a 7-, 10­or even 20-point loss Saturday will be a stride in the right direction for a Notre Dame team that, for almost a decade, had lost its way. 
USC is on pace to break the average yards per game record in Division-! college football by 15 yards. The Trojans average 52 points this year, and 
ya know 
what?" said defensive end Chris Frome. "They have every right to be. 
"They say, 'Oh, you know, Michigan is a three-loss team. They're not that great this year. Pittsburgh wasn't a great team.' They were ranked when we beat them ... We feel like this is our chance to put a lot of the naysayers down and prove that we belong in the top ten, where we are right now. 
"And I believe we belong at the top." 
For the first time in six years, th'e Irish have the opportunity to prove it. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd. edu 

game hype 

CharlieWeis Irish head coach 
"We have a 
group ofguys 
that are so 
hungry ... that 
are so 

dedicated to 
winning. 

Brady Quinn Irish quarterback 
"This is about a bunch ofkids that get to play in a great setting ... with memories to be made., 
Accepting Reservations for Post-Game Dining 
Outdoor Dining: Outdoor Grill On the Weekends 
Live Entertainment: Some of the Best Blues, Jazz &Classic Rock in the area 
Great menu featuring gourmet Soups, Salads, Sandwiches, Pizzas &Baked Pastas 
Serving Micro-Brews, 24 Different Martinis, Espresso Drinks and the Cafe's O\-Yn Specialty Drinks 
Art Gallery & Gift Shop 
"Only afew times in life do you get those special opportunities ... you got to run with it. , 

Brandon Hoyte Irish linebacker 
'VVhen it comes down to it, it's the biggest game ofthe year for us, as it is every week. , 


Friday, ( krobcr 14, 2005 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Rivalry reinvigorated 
Notre Dame and USC continue a series this weekend that began with Knute Rockne in 1926 
remembers that game as a stu­dent. 
"It was a pretty wild nxperience," he said. "Watching thn tnam comn out them and warm up in blue and didn't think too much of it to tell you the truth. And they eame out, and I remember the big Trojan Horse, and I remember the team coming out there in those green jerseys and knowing this wa<; going to be somnthing special." 
The Green Jersey game is just one of many USC-Notre Dame matrhups that wa.:; one to remem­ber. Most reeently, the Trojans have dominated the Irish, and many have speculated that big wins in 2002 and 2004 hnlpnd spur USC quarterbacks and Ileisman Trophy winners Carson Palmer (2002) and Leinart (2004) to win the award. Under thoso quarter­backs, USC has won each of thn last thrne meetings by 31 points, and the 44-13 loss in 2002 helpnd push the 10-1 Irish out of con­tention lhr a BCS bowl bid. But thn Irish say this year's team isn't like the ones that lost by 31 points throe years in a row. 
"This game li~els a lot dill'erent from tho '02 game, and here's why," de((msive end Chris Frornn said. "Our dnfnnso obviously, we had an amazing dnlimsn tlmt year, great d-backs. Our oflimse wasn't mmrly as devolopnd as it is now, and a lot of people have a lot more litith in our oll'cmsn than thoy did then. Our wholo team dons. 
"We really li~el like we can put somn points on the board against USC and hold them scoring, so we feel pretty confident going into this game." 
Saturday's game is another opportunity for the Irish to prove they belong at the top of college lilotball once again. 
"We're motivated right now just because we're trying to build something new," Irish linebacker Maurice Crum said. "We're trying to gnt us back to where we used to be, and that's our motivation." 
Heisman watch 
Besides the tradition of the Notre Dame-USC rivalry, recent games have had more implications than just a win or loss. '1\vo of the p<L<;t throe years, the Notre Dame-USC game has helped decide the Heisman Trophy winner, and both times it wa.:; a Trojan quarterback. When Palmer tore apart the Irish secondary in 2002, many believed it solidified his ehances at college football's highest honor. Last year, it was Leinart who tore apart the Irish secondary to solidify his place in the award voting. However, this year, thorn may be three I Ieisman candidates in Saturday's game. 
Leinart has thrown for 1,646 yards on 108-for-166 passing, including 12 touchdowns and three interceptions. All-purpose back Heggie Bush ha.:; 621 yards rush­ing, 191 yards receiving and 180 punVkick return yards. 
"If it wa.:;n't lor Leinart, he prob­ably would have won the I Ieisman last year," Irish defensive tackle Derek Landri said of Bush. ''I'm sure he's a top candidate to win it this year. The kid is just an awe­some player. Evnrytime he touches the ball, it's like a highlight reel." 
On the Notre Dame sideline, quarterback Brady Quinn has slowly snuck up !Ieisman watch lists, nourishing in Weis' oiTense. Quinn's numbers are similar to Leinart's thtt'> l'ar-1,621 yards on 124-for-190 passing, with 13 touchdowns and three intercep­tions. But Quinn is just fiteused on beating the Trojans, not winning 

By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sporrs Writer 
For decades tlwy've played eaeh other. For decades, their games have been sihrnilkant in the realm of c~ollege football. For dncades. thny've playnd games to remnm­
I:H~r. 
Saturday's matrhup between No. I USC and No. 9 Notre Dame is likely to be no diflim~nt. The Irish sit at 4-1 and arn trying to prove tlwy an~ back at thf' top of collngn ((mtball oncn again. The Trojans, nwanwhiln take their 27-gamn winning streak to South Bend to prove tlwy still bnlong at the top allnr winning bark-to-bar.k nation­al championships. There's no doubt this is a big game. 
"This is the nmson why every guy on this team came here -is to play in a game like this," safety ')(un Zbikowski said. 
But just how big is Saturday's nmtr.hup? 
The hype 
l·:vnryorw across tlw country is talking about Saturday's contest. J·:SI'N's (;;unnDay ITI'W arriwd in South Bend a day narlinr than usual alkr not making an appear­a nco at Notre l>anw sinr.n 2000 and barking out on tlw Irish last season for tlw Michigan ganw. I·:SI'N's morning show Cold l'i:t.za is broadcasting from campus, and ticket prices are skyrorkPling on eBay, with tirkllls going for upwards of $~00 each. 
Mndia acc:pss to players was lim­itPd to just cme day, and thf' players were pn~seleeted to spnak to thn nwdia. Ewm the pep rally, movc~d from tlw Joyce Center to Notre l>anw Stadium for the extra seat­ing, is being tnlnvisnd by ESP­NEWS. 
"This is dnfinitely one of the big­ger games of my career," junior ddnnsivn nnd Vidor Abiamiri said. "So it's kind of one of the little spe­cial times around campus. You don't really get to the play the No.1 tcmm in the eountry in your homo stadium too mud1." 
But the Irish arn trying not to let the hype and nwdia eraze sur­rounding the game a!Teet them, sonwthing pw.;snd down from Irish lwad eoarh ( :harlin Weis. 
"I think I treat evnry week prc~tty nHwh thn sanw," Wnis said. "I have always tried to profess having a wry businesslike approach and tn•ating each ganm m; ib own sep­aratP entity. I undnrstand -I am not oblivious to thn magnitude of tho ((tol.hall gamn. But I think that you just set yoursnlf up f(tr nmo­tiona! highs and lows if you treat it any diflf~rnntly." 
On the USC sideline, quarterback and reigning lleisman Trophy win­ncr Matt Leinart downplayed the game, played at Notre Dame Stadium in its 75th year of exis­tencn. 
"I think it's just how pnople make it," Leinart said. "Wn approach it like it's any other game. It is Notre Dame but we approach it like it was against Arizona last week. Obviously people are going to makn a big dna! about it, but we're just going to go about our busi­ness." 
But at the same time, the Notre Dame playnrs know it's a big deal that the defending champion and No. 1 team in the country is com­ing to town. They see it as an opportunity to see just how well they will stack up against a team most nxpnrl'> dub as the bnst in the country. 
"Playing Soutlwrn Cal is excit­ing." Irish running back Darius Walknr said. "It's a hig dna!. And playing thn No. 1 tcmm in the coun­try I think spcmks wondnrs ((w us bncausn that's whern wn want to bo. To bn thn bnst, you havn to boat thn bc~st." 
The history 
Thn Notre Damn-USC rivalry datns back to the Knutn Hockne nra, whcm tim Irish travelnd to litm thn Trojans for the first timn in 1926. This match up was the begin­ning of what is now known as the "grnatnst intersnctional rivalry." Sincn that game, which Notre Dame won 13-12, the Irish have beaten the Trojans 42 times and lost 29 timns. 
USC's first visit to Notre Dame Stadium rnsulted in the first ever sellout in 1931, a game the Irish lost, 16-14, aller lnading 14-0. This loss ended Notre Dame's 26-game win streak, which carried over !rom Hocknn's tnnure. 
The rivalry indudes many games of significance, induding the 1964 gamn in whieh Notre Dame saw il<; national title hopes shattered and the more famous Green Jersey game of 1977. In 1964, under the leadership of head coach Ara Parseghian, the Irish went to Los Angeles as the top-ranknd team and fnll, 20-17. to the Trojans in thn final game of thn season aftnr lcmding 17-0. 
In thn Green .Jnrsey game, the Irish, coached by Dan Devine, warmnd up in their regular blue uniforms and came out in grenn. Notrn Damn defeated USC 49-19 and wnnt on to win the National Championship. Wni<;, a 1978 grad­uate of Notre Dame, vividly 


UND.com 

Students celebrate on Notre Dame Stadium's field with a Trojan horse after a 49-191rish win over USC ln"the 1977 'Green Jersey' game. 
the award. 
"I don't think we lhcus on !indi­vidual accolades! at all," Quinn said. "As long <L'> the team is win­ning and doing Wl'll those things will come with it." 
And if the Irish win, Quinn's stock could soar, much like Palmer's and Lninart's did. 
Matchup of minds 
Not only is Saturday a showdown between two of the nation's most prolilk quarterbacks, it is also a showdown of two coaches who !I'll. the NFL ranks J(u· college J'ootball. Trojans head coaeh Pete Carroll has led his tnam to bac:k-to-back national titles at USC, while Weis eame to the Irish with ((mr Super Bowl rings from thn NFL 
"We don't know each other very well," Carroll said. ''I've only talked to him a couple times. It's all been football." 
Carroll took over as the head coach of the NFL's New England Patriot<; in 1996, the year Weis and his staff departed. Wei<; went to the New York Jets with Bill Parcells, and Carroll was the head coach of the Patriots until Bill Belichiek took over in 2000, when Carroll left lbr usc. 
That's when Weis returned to the Patriot<; up until this year. 
But Weis said there were no hard feelings from the turnover during whieh he ended up going to the Jet<;. 

"Bneause we worn in that north­east corridor togntlwr. wn had a ehanen to cornpnto," Wnis said. "I think he is a rcmlly good roach. lin h<L'> bncm good ((n-c:ollngn l(tot.lmll. lin canw in thnrc~ when that pro­gram W<L'> a little~ down. Obviously, tlwy arc~ the bar now. They arc~ tlw lewd of ]JPrlctrmaru:n that nvnryone is trying to gnt to." 
And Carroll. who is also tlw Trojans' dnlimsivn c:oordinator is looking ((trward to litdng Wnis who calls all the plays litr tho Irish. 
"What Charlie has bnl'n abll' to do ... hn is that oll'nnsn," Carroll said. "What they wnrl' able to do in Nnw 1\ngland is what thny arn now doing at Notre~ I>amn, you c:an sm~ it dearly and lw 's the one that brought it. I have grcmt rnspnrt ((tr what he's done. 
"I think it's really eool that we have thi.:; chanee to mateh up again and see what we do." 
And the Irish want to take advantage of the opportunity they have to make cuwther mark in tho storied Notre Damn-USC rivalry. 
"Wn look at this a<; an opportuni­ty to boat Southern Cal," oflimsive lineman Hyan Harris said. "Obviously ... we would love to play a groat game and to win. Our goal is always to win. 
"But it would be extra special if wn could win this g;mw." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
by the numbers 
USC's margin of victory over Notre Dame each of the past three seasons. Also, the number of points the Irish have scored the previous two times they have defeated a 
31 

No. 1 ranked opponent in Notre Dame Stadium. 
2 91 2 
The Trojans' average rushing yards per game, No. 1 in the nation. LenDale White leads USC with 123.2 yards per 
• game and 10 rushing touchdowns. 
USC running back Reggie Bush's average yards per carry. He has racked up 601 yards on the ground this season and 
8.5
scored two touchdowns. 

27 
Consecutive games USC has won. The streak covers 13 wins over top 25 teams, two national titles and three victories over the Irish. 
Player, Ohio State RB Archie Griffin, who has won two Heismans. 
1 

Trojan QB Matt Leinart will try to duplicate the feat this year. 
1926 
Year of first meeting between Notre Dame and USC. Knute Rockne's Irish won 13-12 over Howard Jones' Trojans. 
Heisman Trophy winners who played lor Notre Dame. Matt Leinart won USC's sixth Heisman last season. 
7 

1988, the day No. 4 Notre Dame beat No. 1 
MiaiT!i. The Hurricanes had defeated the Irish by 
31 in each of their previous three meetings.
Oct. 15 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 14, 2005 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 

HEAD
Record: 4-1 AP: 9 

Coaches: 9 Notre Dame Fighting Irish 

NOTRE DAME 2005 Schedule  
Sept. 3 at Pittsburgh -W Sept.10 at Michigan -W Sept.17 MICHIGAN ST. -L Sept.24 at Washington -W Oct. 01 at Purdue-W Oct. 15 usc Oct.22 BYU Nov.5 TENNESSEE Nov. 12 NAVY Nov. 19 SYRACUSE Nov.26 at Stanford  


,------------------------------------.---.--.~­
--~~----------------------~-~--------~ 
Friday, October 14, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

usc 

Trojans
HEAD 

Record: 5-0 
USC Trojans 

TROJANS RUSHING TROJANS PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS 
l.inPbaeker Brandon lloyt~> buoys itn Irish rush dnlhnsf~ allowing only 116 yards per game. lloyto has I0.5 tackles for loss while defonsive tackles l>orek Landri, Brian Beidatsch and Trevor l.aws anchor a unit rankPd No. 31 nationally against tho run.  
Tlw Trojans lead the nation in rushing with 2'J 1.2 yards JWr game. Lnnl>ale White and Heggin Bush each have run for I00 yards in the past three gamns and have combined for 16 rushing touchdowns this s1mson. Bush is averaging X.5 yards pPr carry.  

The Irish secondary is vulnerable, allowing an avorago of 305.6 yards per game. Michigan State, Washington and Purdue threw for 327, 408 and 350 yards rnspnctively in Notre Dame's last three games. The secondary hm; ono interception in nach of thosn thron games.  
Leinart is throwing for :~29.2 yards por gamn as Dwayne Jarrett and Stove Smith lead the rnceivnrs. Jarrett has nine scoring grabs this season while Smith is averaging 21.3 yards pnr catch. Bush h<L'> 13 catches for a pair of touchdowns l'rom his t.aiback spot.  


One of Notre Dame's  The major weakness of  
strrmgths the past few  Notre Dame's defense is  
seasons has been its  its secondary. This will be  
defensive line. llownver,  a problf~m facing Leinart,  
the Trojans are better  Smith, Jarrett and Bush.  
than Purdue, Pitt and  Last season, the Trojans  
Washington. White and  sliced past the Irish  
Bush are a potent mix of  defensive backs. There is  
pow~>r and tla'>h. USC h<L'>  a good possibility for  
tho ability to run all over  more of the same in this  
tho Irish.  season's matchup.  


Kieker D.J. Fitzpatrick L<;  This is the most  
pi~rlhet on PATs thi<; sea'iOn.  hyped game in Notre  
lie also handles punting  Dame Stadium since the  
duties, averaging 40.7 yards  No. 2 Irish beat No. 1  
per kick. Tom Zbikowski  Florida State 31-24 on  
has taken over the punt  Nov. 13, 1993. The  
return job but has yet to  crowd will be loud and  
break a return longer than  electric as Weis goes for  
25 yards. Chase Anasta<;io  his inaugural home win  
blocknd a punt during a 36­ and the first Irish win  
17 win at Washin1-,rt.on.  ovnr USC since 200 I.  
Punter Tom Malone wm;  USC is the best team in  
named All-American in  the nation and also the  
2004. lin is high on thn lisl<;  most confidont. It has  
of' pro scouts this year by  the most dominant run  
tallying 42.8 yards (Xlr punt  game along with a  
on only 12 kicks. Troy Van  lleisman quarterback.  
Blareom handles kickoff  The Trojans have had  
duties. Bush ha<; yet to scorn  decisive victorios over  
on eithnr a kickoll' or punt  the Irish the past three  
roturn thi'> sea<;on after 15  years and arc eager l'or  
combined attempt'>.  another blowout.  
Malone might be the best punter in America. lie just rarely gets the chance to show off his talent. Bush is a threat to return a kick for a touchdown every time he gets the ball. Fitzpatrick is consistent, but USC's returners give it the edge.  USC will not be short on motivation for this matchup. It wants a third national title badly. But the atmosphere in Notre Dame Stadium will reach levels not seen since the Florida State game in 1993. That game went well for the Irish, as they won, 31-24.  

AP: 1 Coaches: 1 
Pete Carroll fifth season at 
usc 
career record: 
47-9 
at USC: 
47-9 


against Notre Pete Carroll Dame: 3-1 head coach 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  Yl!  
1  Patrick Turner  WR  6-5  220  I'I{  
2  StewSmilh  WR  6-0  195  fR  
4 4  ~:iit~ffi,t:>~is  WR s  6-1 6-1  225 220  so FR  
5 6  ~f..~ig.B~~tz  TB QB  6-0 6-4  200 215  JR FR  
7  Cary Horris  Cll  6-1  180  FR  
8  Dwayne Jarrett  WR  6-5  210  so  
9  MozK\ue McCurtis  CB  6-1  225  so  
9  Phil  ellinger  PK  6-0  170  FR  
10  fohn David Booty  QB  6-3  195  so  
\0  Brian CushinK  Lll  6-4  235  I'R  
11  Matt Leinart  QB  6-5  225  SR  
13  Tom Harwood  QB  6-3  170  so  
14  Tom Malone  r  6-0  205  SR  
15  Kevin Thomas  CB  6-1  190  FR  
16  Chase McWhorter  s  5-8  190  so  
16  Michael McDonald  QB  6-2  185  so  
17  Troy Van Blarcom  PK  6-3  2\0  FR  
18  john Walker  C:B  6-1  200  SR  
19  Grei~ Carlson  WR  5-10  190  SR  
19  Mano Dando  PK  5-10  185  so  
20 21  E:'~~~~~.B~~ite  s TB  6-2 6-2  220 235  )R )R  
22  Desmond Rt~d  TB  5-9  IHO  so  
22  fimAbbolt  C:B  5-10  175  FR  
23  Chauncey WashingtonTB  6-1  205  so  
24  justin Wyatt  CB  5-10  185  SR  
25  Tar,lor Odeg•rd  P  5-9  170  FR  
26  Will Harris  CB-S  6-2  200  FR  
26  WiiSmlth  WR  6-1  200  SR  
27  Michael Coleman  TB  6-1  2..15  FR  
2H  Terrell Thomas  CB  6-1  195  so  
28  Andn> Wonder!  TB  6-0  220  SR  
29  Scott Wan>  s  6-0  215  SR  
29  fohn Griffin  TB  6-0  195  so  
30  Mik<• Briltingham  FB  6-1  205  JR  
30 31  ~J(;a~i~i~;h~non  CB 5-10 CB-WR 6-3  170 185  fR SR  
31  fame! Williams  C:B  5-10  170  fR  
34  H<•rshel Dennis  TB  5-11  200  SR  
35  Jody Adewale  FB  6-0  2..10  so  
35  justin Hart  s  6-0  165  FR  
36  fosh Pinkard  s  6-1  200  so  
37 38  David Kirtman Brandon lin~  FB s  6-0 5-10  2.10 180  SR fR  -·  
39 40  ~r;~d~~~ lancod,  s FB  5-10 6-1  180 2.10  jl{ JR  
41  Thomas Williams  LB  6-3  2.10  so  
42  Dallas Sart7.  LB  n-5  240  SR  
43  Kaluk.1 Mai11ya  LB  6-0  220  Fll  
44  Rash.1.1d Goodrum  DE  6-3  245  JR  
45  Oscar Lua  Lll  6-\  240  JR  
46  Alex Gomez  CB  5-10  180  SRI'  
46  Scam Limahl:'lu  r  6-2  175  m  
47  Sean Kelly  FB  6-0  195  so  
47  Clay Mntth••ws  LB  6-3  22.'i  FR  
48  MatthPw jordan  CB  5-8  175  FR  
48  Br.1d Walk<•r  WR  6-2  2!Xl  so  
49  Sed rick Ellis  DT  6-1  2H5  so  
50  Will Collins  SNI'  6-2  220  so  
51  Fn•d M.ittlol  tx;  6-2  305  JR  
52  Luthur Brown  LB  6-3  2..15  FR  
53  Jeff By<•rs  tx;  6-3  JOO  so  
54  jeff Schweiger  DE  6-4  260  so  
55  Keith Rivers  Lll  6-3  220  so  
56 57  ~:~ l;~~~t~cll  LB LB  6-0 6-1  2..'i0 225  jl{ 1'1{  
58 59  ~~Jii~A~~~~~l  Lll LB  6-3 6-1  2.'i0 220  I'R SR  
60  Drew R.1dovich  tx;  6-5  300  so  
61  Ross Burnll'l  c  6-2  240  SR  
62  DominitlUl' Wist>  OT  n-4  250  fR  
63  Travis Drapl'r  DT  6-4  2~5  1'1{  
64  Mik~ Davis  IJT  6-0  280  )I<  
65  jdfTol,,  DE  6-0  220  so  
66  Chilo Roch,,l  ex;  6-5  300  I'R  
67  ~an Kalil  c  6-3  2H5  )I<  
69  att Spanos  c  6-5  300  so  
70  Alatim Malu  ex;  6-4  340  so  
71  Taitusi Lutui  or  6-6  365  Sl<  
72  John Lcmza  ex;  6-3  255  )R  
73  jonathan Ridll•rt  OT  6-4  2~0  )R  
74  Winston Justin•  or  6-6  300  JR  
75  Fili Moclla  DT  6-4  300  I'I{  
76  Nick Howt•ll  or  6-6  265  I'R  
77  Thomas HcrrinA  OT  6-6  335  I'R  
78  Kyle Williams  OT  6-6  295  fR  
79  Sam B.lker  OT  6-5  305  so  
HO  fohn Zilka  WR  6-4  200  SR  
82  Chris McFoy  Wll  6-1  200  fl{  
83  F"'d Davis  TE  6-4  225  so  
H4  KhleMoon•  DE  6-7  265  I'R  
85  C aries Brown  TE  6-6  250  FR  
H6  Dominique Byrd  TE  6-3  260  51<  
87  Nick Vanderboom  TE  6-4  245  fR  
88  fimmthMiller  TE  6-4  250  FR  
89  Dale  ompson  TE  6-4  255  so  
90  FrostL"l' Ruckl'r  DE  6-3  260  SR  
91  Chris Barn>lt  DE  6-5  265  so  
93  Lawrence Miles  DT  6-2  265  FR  
94  Jermyah Graves  DT  6-0  325  fR  
95  Trav1s Tofi  DT  6-4  255  JR  
96  Lawrence jackson  DE  6-5  265  so  
97  Alex Morrow  DE  6-6  265  so  
98  Lafuan Ramsey  DT  6-3  290  SR  
99  Aven>ll Spicer  DT  6-2  265  FR  


USC should win this game. It has the best 
Finally, amidst understandably great fan­offense in America, a brilliant defensive fare, the most important game at Notre coach in Pete Carroll and a fantastic leader Dame Stadium in over a decade has arrived. in Leinart. But the Trojans aren't invincible. In a contest that can go any direction, the 
Irish

Weis believes Notre Dame can win this game. Irish must continue to play rock solid, oppor­lie's right. The Irish get a littln help from the tunistic red-zone defense to knock off the energetic home crowd and Brady Quinn car­Trojans. The defense steps up, Weis' offense ries Notre Dame to its biggest win since the excels and Notre Dame squeaks out a monu­
experts

quartorback was in third grade. mental victory.
Mike Gllloon 

FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 45 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31 Sports Editor USC43 usc 27 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 14, 2005 
Sizing up the Irish and the Trojans 
NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE USC's OFFENSE 
vs vs
AVERAGE PER GAME USC's DEFENSE NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 

total yards gained 
total yards allowed 

rushing yards gained L__ 174.41 rushing yards allowed 
-.-----' 

passing yards gained 

~ 329.81 
passing yards allowed ~t+j 


kick return yards gained ~ kick return yards allowed , , 

19.5 punt return yards gained ~ punt return yards allowed 1 
yards per punt 
41.21 punts blocked 
0 
turnovers lost turnovers recovered 


total points scored 
I 
total points allowed 

-,-------37.o I 

Notre Dame yards penalized 
USC yards penalized 



NOTRE DAME 
SECONDARY 
Irish cornerbacks Ambrose Wooden and Mike Richardson have performed above the low expectations many Irish followers held at the beginning of the season. Yet, the second­ary is still the weakest unit on the field for Notre Dame. 
Strong safety Tom Zbikowski, above, has provided timely big hits and interceptions so far this season. 
Chinedum Ndukwe has accounted for five total turnovers this sea­son -four fumble recoveries and one interception. 
Richardson nabbed a key interception in the end zone at Purdue. 
usc 
PASSING GAME 
Matt Leinart, above, is an All-American quarterback with a fleet of speedy receivers to throw to. 
Dwayne Jarrett is the leader of the group with 35 receptions this season -nine going for touchdowns. 
Steve Smith has averaged 21.3 yards per catch and leads the Trojans with 115 receiving yards per game. 
Leinart has several dangerous weapons in his backfield as well. Reggie Bush has 13 grabs and two scores while David Kirtman adds sure hands at the fullback position with 12 receptions. 

Did you work for The Observer? 
The Observer will be celebrating its 40th Anniversary with a reunion during the weekend of the Blue Et Gold Game this spring. We would love for you to attend. 
Please contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu for more information. 
Friday, ()crober 14, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Trojan receivers will test Irish defense 
Snzith, Jarrett have conzbined for a total of62 catches in 2005 
By MIKE GILLOON Spor" Fditor 
USC's 41-10 blowout of Notrn DamP last snason shownd two tnams snnmingly s pi r a I in g i n o p p o sill~ d i r n e­Lions. 
Tlw Trojans. lnd by llnisman winning quartnrbaek Malt I.Pinart. rolled through a porous Irish dnfnnsn that looknd lwlplnss against tho USC rn(~nivnrs. 
But dnspitn thn hiring of' lwad eoach Charli(~ Wnis and a 4-1 Irish rncord. Notrn Damn is still surrnndnr­
nnd Chris Frome said. "But obviously this ynar I think we are a diff'erent team on dnl'm1sn. I think we'rn a much bnttnr tnam." 
The Irish will neod to be bet­ter. Leinart is completing 65.1 percent of his passes and loading an offense that seores an average of 51.6 points per gamn. 
Aeeording to Irish defensive backs eoach/ assistant head coach Bill Lnwis, Leinart's aeeunu~y is what makns him such a thn~at. 
"Wn'vn studind nvnry play this season," Lewis said. "Tiwre's one word as you look at the whole package: he's aceuratn. lie gets tho ball out on Limn, he antieipates and he gets the ball in the right spot." Irish free safety Chinedum Ndukwe, who was 

ing 305.h yards on the f'ield last pnr gamn. Thn "When you look at season when USC Irish f(~nl, though, burned Notre
their receivers, 

that tlwy arnn't Dame for 405
they all run well.

thn same team yards through the that fa(~ed the They're also big, air, is eertaihly Trojans last sna­wary of' Leinart's
physical people ... 

son. They feel and his team­
they are extremely

thny have a mates' abilities. chancn. well-coached ... in "With Michigan "I Last ynar in we had three
every game tape

thn seeond half guys we were
that you watch. " 

USC I started keying on passing thn ball lwide receiver morn, they start­Bill Lewis Steve) Breaston, nd sprnading us I quarterback
Irish assistant coach 

out, and I don't Chad) Henne and think wn had tho [running back corn~et dnf'ensivn ealls or eov­Mikel Hart," Ndukwe said. nragos all tho Limn last year "But [now) we've got six guys and I think that exploitnd our that can score at any time, so weakrwssns." Irish defensive it's a little bit different. 

They've got a whole bunch of different options to go to and different angles you have to always make sure you cover." 
Besides running back Reggie Bush, who has 13 receptions this season, USC's Dwayne Jarrett and Steve Smith are the two most dangerous receivers on the team. Jarrett has 35 grabs and nine touch­downs, while Smith is averag­ing 21.3 yards per catch. 
"It's not just Bush you have to be aware of," Ndukwe said. "You got to be aware of ... everybody. They've got a lot of different players." 
Even fullback David Kirtman is averaging 14.1 yards per catch on 12 receptions. Thirteen different Trojans have caught passes through five games. 
The variety of' weapons in the Trojans' arsenal is impres­sive to Lewis. But ho also believes what pushes USC above its compntition is its tal­ent pi us the coaching it receives. 

"When you look at their receivers, they all run well," Lewis said. "They're also big, physical people. But tho third thing is ... they are extremely well coached. and that is very obvious in every gamn tape that you watch." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
-


USC reaping benefits of Bush's decision 
Notre Dame's struggles and Notre Dame -Bush picked up different positions. powerful running style coupled By MATT PUGLISI 
Southern California's success at just 25 yards on eight attempts "He's a great running back. with Bush's quick (~utting ability A'sociarc Sports Ediwr 
the nnd of 2002 combined to -he managed to hurt the Irish lie's powerful. lie's also got that can exhaust defenses. put the Trojans over the top. in the passing game, snagging a speed and that burst where he "Looking at it, a lot of thnir 
Notre Dame's 44-1 ;{ loss to Tho Irish have since experi­69-yard touchdown pass late in can make a long run." yards are coming in the third, Soutlwrn California in Nov. enced firsthand the skill of a the third quarter to put the Notre Dame right tackle fourth quarter. wearing down 2002 hurt the Irish in more player they almost had their Trojans ahead 27-10. USC Derek Landri knows Bush has teams, beating up teams," ways than one. Not only was the hands on. On only six carries in would go on to win the contest, the potential to change the com­Zbikowski said. "That's kind of Trojan pounding the first of USC's 45-14 throttling of the 41-10. plexity of the game with every what we're preparing for." thrnn straight 31-point Notre Irish at Notre Dame Stadium in Bush's ability to burn the carry. After recording morn rushing Dame lossns to rival USC, but it 2003, Bush tore up the Irish run opposition in a wide variety of "Every time he touches the yards and touchdowns than also gave tho Trojans the edge defense to the tune of' 89 yards, ways makes him particularly ball, it turns into a highlight Bush as both a freshman and in a tight recruiting battle for including an untouched 58-yard dangerous. reel," Landri said. sophomore-White ran for 754 thn snrvicns of Helix High touchdown gallop on a brilliant "Everyone knows about Bush garnered national atten­yards and 13 touchdowns his School running back Heggie cutback. Bush," Irish safety Tom tion as a sophomore, recording freshman year, followed by Bush. While he didn't have the same Zbikowski said. "He can line up 908 yards (6.3 yards per carry) 1,103 yards and 15 scores as a 
South Bend's distance from success on the ground in his at receiver, line up at running on the ground and 509 yards sophomore -he's once again 
home -sunny San Diego -second game in 2004 against back and hurt you in various and through the air. He found leading Bush in both categories, the end zone 13 times last sea­pounding out 616 yards and 1 0 son, nearly doubling his total touchdowns. from freshman year. "lie's been an integral part of 
Through five games in 2005, our offense for a few years," Bush is on pace to obliterate the USC eoaeh Pete Carroll said. marks he set sophomore year, "Always when we've bnon nlliH:­posting 601 rushing yards (S.5 tive oll'ensively, we've had a guy yards per carry), 191 receiving who's real physical running tho yards and eight touchdowns. ball. lin complinwnts what we 
Irish free safety Chinedum do with Hnggin and what wn do Ndukwe points to Bush's unpar­with thn passing gamn." alleled drive as the root of his Tho USC rushing ganw is cur­success. rently No. I in thn country at 
"lie plays so hard," Ndukwe 291.2 yards per game. said. "He has so much passion Factor in a potent passing for the game it seems. attack led by lleisman Trophy 
"''ve never spoken to him in winner Matt Lninart, and the my life, but the intensity he Trojans have more offensive plays the game with is so fierce weapons that any tnam in col­and so competitive-I've never lege football. even met him -but I respect But, in the nnd, the running ­him." gamn is the key. 
As efl'ective as Bush has been "It seems likn they start out in shredding opposing defenses trying new things on oll'ense in this season, fellow junior run­tho first half and if thosn things ning back LenDale White -the don't seem to go well ... they try thunder to Bush's lightning -to go back to tlw run," Irish has been equally, if not more defensive end Chris Frome said. impressive. 
While White doesn't otTer the Contact Matt Puglisi at same versatility as Bush, his mpuglisi@nd.edu 
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 14, 2005 
Sound a music major can love. At a price a finance major can appreciate. 
-
Bose® sound for the way you listen. 
Whether it's music 
on your iPod~ your 
computer or MP3 COs ­
there's a Bose system for 
the way you listen. Get 
more of the passion of a 
guitar solo and the pulse 
of the rhythm section ­
even at full volume. 
Special savings and student discounts. 


These systems are 
·-··=:;~~~~:::::-fattory...renewed 
products that are 
available at a reduced 
price. Each factory­
renewed product has been 
Bose SoundDock™ digital 
re-tested, meets our strict 
music system. Enjoy Bose" 
quality standards and
sound in your room while 

charging your iPod, iPod comes with a full warranty. 
mini or iPod photo. Louis 
Combine that with a 
Ramirez of The Washington 
student-only discount,

Post says it "delivers crisp, and you can get bonus
room-filling sound with nice bass that doesn't distort at savings on Bose sound. high volume." 
Bose Companion® 3 
computer speaker system. A unique circular control pod, two tiny speakers and a hideaway Acoustimasstt> module (not shown) give your music files sound that Mac Home says "is a shock to all who underestimate it." 
Bose Wave® music system. CNET says it "improves upon the original in both design and performance." Plays MP3 COs, includes FM/AM tuner/alarm clock and fits easily in a dorm or apartment. Jonathan Takiff of The Philadelphia Daily News says, "crank it up loud and this little jack is a giant killer. .. '' 


-





