

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 128 TUESDAY, APRIL 25,2006 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Officers approve future budget 
By KELLY MEEHAN Saint Mary's Editor 
For most members of Notre Dame's Class of 2006, Senior Week serves as a bittersweet conclusion to their four years at the University. 
But last week some seniors ­future fifth-year students with graduating fourth-year friends -discovered the tradition would not become a reality for them. 
Senior architecture major Kate Donovan made this "disappoint­ing discovery" last week when she had her student ID card swiped to receive Chicago Cubs tickets -one of Senior Week's highlight events. 
Donovan, like other senior 
THE 

Sample of Student Union Budget Allocations 2006 ­2007  
Total Allocation 2005-2006  Total Allocation 2006-2007  
Club Coordination Council  $7.500  $7.500  
College ReadershiP  N/A  $81,000  
Hall Presidents Council  $45.000  $59.000  
Oft-Campus  $2.500  S2A56.06  
SUB  $201.500  $217.000  
Total Allocated  $362.500  $481.243.06  


ALEXA ANTEKEIER/The Observer 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) approved a $481,243.06 budget Monday, up more than $100,000 from the $362,500 allocated last year. 
The increase can be attrib­uted to both projected Shirt profits and the higher $95 student activities fee that will go into effect next fall, Student Union treasurer Steve Friend said. 
"Historically we have only projected $100,000 of rev­enue from The Shirt," Friend said. "This year we decided to allocate as much as we could at the present time ­giving us $30,000 extra to play with." 

Friend said the latest pro­jection for Shirt revenues is around $150,000. 
The student activities fee will also jump from $80 to $95 for the next academic year, a result of two Student Senate resolutions. Ultimately approved by the Board of Trustees in February, the increase will make the College Readership Program possible next fall. 
Two-thirds of the money from the student activities fee increase, totaling $81,000, is assigned to the 
see CORlpage 3 
'Senior Week' events not open to all seniors 
Current fourth-year architecture students unable to register with their entry class 
architecture students, was told she was not eligible to partici­pate in Senior Week since she will be a fifth-year student next year and not graduating this May. 
"I was surprised more than anything," she said upon receiv­ing news that she would have to wait until the Senior Week of the Class of 2007. 
Donovan and fellow senior architecture major Sonia GarCia said they were disappointed they cannot participate because many of their friends are members of the Class of 2006. 
"I feel left out," Garcia said. "I think it is kind of ridiculous that 
see WEEK/page 4 


Alumni rector receives award 
By PETER NINNEMAN News Writer 
After 28 years as rector of Alumni Hall, Father George Rozum was honored and sur­prised with the Distinguished Alumni Award from the Notre Dame 
Alumni Association at a ban­quet in s 0 u t h Dining Hall Friday. 
"It's very humbling 


because all Rozum I've done is continue to say I'd do the job of rector one more year and the years went by," Rozum said. "I assume they think that I've done my job of being rector as the University, the students and the alumni would suppose that I should." 
The award is not given out annually, and Rozum is only the 12th person to receive it. 
His 28-year tenure as rec­tor is a University record. 
Chuck Lennon, executive director and associate vice president for university rela­tions for the Alumni Association, said letters were sent to former resi­dents of Alumni to let them in on the secret. 
Alumni residents and Notre Dame alumni gathered Friday for the banquet to celebrate the 75th anniver­sary of Alumni Hall's con­struction. In attendance were University President 
Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh and five Holy Cross priests who had Rozum as a rector when they lived in Alumni Hall as stu­dents. 
Alumni Board president Tim Brady said nominations for the award are made by "a host of people," and then the Alumni Association com­mittee on internal activities makes recommendations to the whole Alumni Association, which votes for the recipient. 
"It is awarded on occasion of exemplary service to the University or the communi­ty," Lennon said. 
Rozum is the first rector to receive the award. Previous recipients of the award 
see ROZUM/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Interim VP to start in July 
University forming plan for 2007-08 
By RYAN SYDLIK 
News Writer 
Don Pope-Davis, Notre Dame's current associate vice president for graduate studies and a psychology professor, has been named interim vice presi­dent for 
graduate studies and resea.rch, according to a University statement released April20. 
He will 


begin his Pope-Davis duties July 1 and replace Jeffrey Kantor, who has held the position since 2000. 
"Don Pope-Davis was selected as interim vice president because he is an accomplished researcher who understands the importance of research," Provost Thomas Burish said Monday. "He is the best quali­fied person to move in at this time." 
But Pope-Davis' appointment is intended to fill the position for just a year. The University has not decided what to do when Pope-Davis' interim term ends, Burish said, and is con­sidering a reorganization of his office. 
Burish appointed a commit­tee headed by Dean of the 
see INTERIM/page 4 


Short power, Internet 
outages hit ca111pus 
By RYAN SYDLIK 
News Writer 
Approximately half the build­ings on Notre Dame's campus were affected by a power outage and all lost Internet service for a brief period Sunday afternoon, Director of Utilities Paul Kempf said. 
Kempf said the outage lasted for about 15 minutes. It started shortly after 12:30 p.m. and by approximately 12:45 p.m., power was restored to most of the cam­pus. 
Internet service was out from 
12:33 to approximately 1:20 p.m. 
Buildings affected by the power outage included Knott Hall, Hesburgh Library, North Dining Hall, South Dining Hall, Farley Hall, Dillon Hall, Breen-Philips Hall, Fisher Hall, Pasquerilla East Hall, Zahm Hall and LaFortune Student Center. 
The cause of the power outage was a supply interruption from an external supplier, not a fault of Notre Dame's on-campus power plant, Kempf said. 
When the connection was inter­rupted, the Notre Dame system shed half its load to cover the shortfall so the electrical grid would not damage itself, he said. 
Notre Dame produces a portion of its own power at the campus power plant and buys another 
see OUTAGE/page 4 
Tuesday, April 25, 2006
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The art of the nap 
Evoryorw has a hobby. Somo pooplP love 1~xordso. running milo aftor milo every time the sun shinns. 
Other poople eollnet things, snarching around town for the next big purcha_<>n, putting their tro­
Eric Retter
phios in the hal­
lowod spaces ovor 
Associate
thoir mantles. 
Sports Editor 
These activities, like most hobbies, involve one of two things: energy and money, neither of which I have much of at this point. 
That being said, I too have a hobby, a new love that fills tho empty hours of my afternoons: napping. 
Unlike most hobbios, where one must start from ba_<>ically nothing and chase their pa<>sion with their monoy or efforts, napping requires no introduction, no training, nothing but a love of quality rest. 
In preschool, napping was encouraged a<> part of the curriculum-and I feel that it is high time to return to the mind­set of our past. 
With time and dedication, anyone can become a good napper. Also, the nap is timeless. At any hour of the day, at any time of the year, the napper can pursue his/her passion. Night or day, winter or summer, the nap L<> always available as the perfeet leisure pursuit. 
Napping, however; is not merely tho pursuit of sleep and an absence of activi­ty. Napping is a skill honed by years of practice. While anyone can take a great nap when exhaused, these !luke por­formam:es are not signs of napping prominence. 
Tht~ true nappor must loarn to adapt to his surroundings, to push him/herself into tho optimal mindset no mattor what tho conditions may bo. With two hours of frnn time, tho eommittnd nappnr finds a way to got it donn. A ).,>Tnat napper can sleop through thn roommatn's tnlephono eonvorsation whilo tho TV blares, and tho best in the businnss could probably slnep through a rock mm:ert in the rain. 
While sleep is an inll~).,rral part of the nap, a good nap is much more than sleep. Napping is about dearing your mind, finding relaxation amidst the strains of daily Iii(~. The best naps come while the sun is out, after one has fiiUnd the momentary peace that contrasts with the bustle of the oul<;ide world. While I must admit that I am not the best nap­per, I !i"lel that I am making progress with my abilities, with a little more work, I soon eould b1~ one of tim best. 
In those preschool days, my toachers gave out the daily "Bnst-Reswr Award" to the bost napper of the day. In my four yoars under their care, I won the award only one time, ranking me last in my graduating kindergarten dass of 1991. 
I !'they eould see me now, could see how far I've come, I know my teachers would bo ploa<>ed. 
Contact Eric Retter at 
eretter@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the lnsi.de Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CLARIFICATION 
In the April 21 edition ofThe Observer, the article enti­tled "Pulit?.cr goes to ND grad" mistakenly said Micl!elle Krupa and David Kinney won Pulir.t.crs, when in filet, they were members ofstaffi that won PulirJ.ers and not individual recipicnrs. The Observer regrets this error. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to an t-diting error in the April 24 t-dition oflbe Observer, the name Jake 1.1 Motta WliS mistakenly writ­ten Jack La Mona in the Inside Column. Due to a re1xming error in d1e April 24 e-dition ofThe Observer, "Dancers raise reconl amounts" incorrectly s;1id Saint Mary's holds the rt'Cord for most money raised in Indiana at a first dance marathon. That record belongs to Cannel High School. The ( )bserver regrets these errors. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: How DO YOU FEEL ABOUT GRADUATING IN FOUR YEARS? 







Vy Vy Le  Mike Benz  Andy Bulso  Amy Rohm  Colleen Hackett  Justine Ray  
freshman Badin  freshman Alumni  freshman Alumni  senior Opus  sophomore Holy Cross  sophomore Holy Cross  
"Four years ... if ,I'm lucky.  "With my PLS degree, I'll be the only Nietzche­ ''I'm already sad about saying goodbye to Father  "Great."  ''I'm going to be a teacher so I'll be in school the rest ofmy life."  ''I'm just going to more school so it doesn't ,matter.  

quoting hobo in George Rozum. " South Bend." 

Cruise baby name puzzles Israelis 
JERUSALEM -Suri, the name chosen by Hollywood couple Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes for their new­born daughter, is raising more than its share of inter­est in Israel. 
It means "get out of here" in the local language, Hebrew.' 
News of the naming puz­zled even those Israelis who thought they had seen it all after pop diva Madonna turned the ancient Jewish mystical tradition Kabbalah into a faith for the famous. 
"I really don't know what they were thinking when they chose this name. It's a term that denotes expul­sion, like 'Get out of here,"' said Gideon Goldenberg, a linguistics professor at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. "It's pretty blunt." 
College bars students from posing for Playboy 
SAN ANTONIO-Baylor University in Waco, Texas, which bills itself as the world's largest Baptist col­lege, has threatened to dis­cipline students if they pose for Playboy magazine, which is trying to recruit models from the college. 
Playboy photographers 

came to Baylor's hometown seeking models for a photo spread on women of the Big 12 college athletic confer­ence, of which the college is a member. 
Baylor Vice President for Student Life Samuel W. Oliver sent an e-mail to stu­dents this week warning that any who "associate" with Playboy would be sub­ject to the university's disci­plinary processes. 
Baylor, known for its con­servative outlook, did not allow dancing on campus untillO years ago. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a: 

' ,,
L&.l 
:::z::: 
~ 
L&.l 

i):
J) 

i):
~ 
..... 
II( 
CJ 
0 

HIGH 54 HIGH 42 HIGH 60 HIGH 63
..... 

LOW 42 LOW 35 LOW 38 LOW 42 
IN BRIEF 
Class of 2006 Senior Week tickets will be on sale at the LaFortune Box Office today. Graduating seniors interested in purchasing tickets to the events must bring their Notre Dame ID to the Box Office between 12 p.m. and 6. 
A part of AnTostal, the First Annual Dorm Olympics will take plaee today from 4 
p.m. to 7 on South Quad. The events are free. 
The Bookstore Basketball tournament will continue 
with  round  32  at  6  p.m.  
tonight  at  the  book store  
courts.  

Notre Dame softball will take on Purdue at 4 p.m. Wednesday at Ivy Field. 
Notre Dame baseball will take on Bowling Green at 
5:05 p.m. Wednesday at Frank Eck Stadium. 
The world premire of the opera "Witness" will be at 
6:30 p.m. on Wednesday in ()'Laughlin Auditorium. It will run through the weekend with performances at 7:30 
p.m. Friday and Saturday and 2:30 p.m. Sunday. 
The film "Top Gun" will be shown Wednesday at 9 p.m. on North Quad as part of AnTostal festivities. 
The SMC Irish Dance Club will perform at 4:30 p.m. Saturday and 7:30 p.m. Sunday in The Little Theater in Moreau Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 67 HIGH 65 LOW 45 LOW 43 
Atlanta 84 I 63 Boston 68 I 46 Chicago 51 I 40 Denver 48 I 29 Houston 83 I 71 Los Angeles 69 I 55 Minneapolis 58 I 35 New York 67 I 53 Philadelphia 73 I 52 Phoenix 90 I 58 Seattle 63 I 44 St. Louis 61 I 48 Tampa 86 I 71 Washington 75 I 51 

Tuesday, April25, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
WAKE UP THE ECHOES 
-w-w-w.rocknebookmark.com 
Knute Rockne 75th Anniversary Commemorative Bookmark 
front 
This bookmark is an exact replica of the actual prayer card distributed at Coach Rockne's Funeral. 
:=~-· 

• 
Must BUY for Alumni, Family and Friends 

• 
Lifetime Keepsake 


• 
Buy before you leave for summer vacation 

• 
Have it shipped home or to your dorm 

• 
Made in the U.S.A. 




J&K Card, LLC 

back 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group grants co-sp~nsorships 
Allocations made for psychology honors society trip, The Show 2006 
By LIZ HARTER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) officers approved two co-sponsorships totaling $6,045 at their meeting Monday night. One will help fund a scholarship for a group of students to travel to a national psychology honors society convention, and the other will go to support The Show 2006. 
The first co-sponsorship will help fund a trip for 11 mem­bers of the Saint Mary's Psi Chi Club to the Psi Chi Midwestern Regional Convention in Chicago, Ill. Psi Chi is a national honor society in psychology. 
Saint Mary's students have attended the conference for several years, Psi Chi represen­tative Jennifer Hanlon said. 
"Five Saint Mary's psychology [major] seniors will present research they have conducted throughout their undergradu­ate work [at the conference]," Hanlon said. 
Athletic commissioner Anne Cusak motioned to pass the co­sponsorship for $1 ,045, which promptly passed. 
The second co-sponsorship will help fund The Show 2006 -the largest annual concert event intended for all members of the Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and Holy Cross communities, according to the co-sponsorship application. 
Notre Dame junior Patrick Vassel presented the $10,000 co-sponsorship proposal to BOG. The estimated total cost of The Show for 2006 is $128,000. 
"It's important to us that [The Show] be as much a Saint Mary's event as a Notre Dame event because it shows new and returning members of this community what it means to be a part of each student body and the community as a whole," Vassel said. "From start to fin­ish we really do everything pos­sible to make sure that this is as much a Saint Mary's event." 
Following Vassel's proposal, board members discussed BOG's past financial involve­ment with The Show. 
The board discussed placing stipulations on BOG funding of the event such as advertise­ment of Saint Mary's orienta­tion weekend events like the Jamaica Shaka. 
"That's one of the reasons that the Jamaica Shaka was so big last year because it was on all their flyers," student body vice president Maggie Siefert said. 
Former BOG treasurer Jillian Waters sat in on the meeting to help guide the new board mem­bers through their first co­sponsorships. 
"I think $10,000 is a lot," she said. "I think it's a great event and I think it should be one of the largest if not the largest co­sponsorships that BOG sup­ports." 
Admissions commissioner Annie Davis motioned to pro­vide $5,000 with the stipula­tions that by the end of the school year The Show's com­mittee find a Saint Mary's liai­son as well as advertising the Jamaica Shaka on fliers. The board voted to provide the money with the stipulations after a small amount of discus­sion. 
In Other BOG News: 
+Student Activities Board president Claudia Toth announced there will be an 80s-themed dance this Saturday on the Library green. 
+Student body president Susan Mcllduff reminded the board of a Chicago bus trip and Student Activities Board bus trip Saturday to the Dunes in Michigan. A sign-up sheet for both trips is at the front desk of the student center. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

COR 
continued from page 1 
College Readership Program. But that distribution -which makes the College Readership Program the only group to receive 100 percent of its requested funds-left some student groups unsatisfied with their share. 
The Club Coordination Council (CCC), which this spring countered the alloca­tion plan that accompanies 
the increase, "Our goal was to percentage of continued to the student body
allocate as much as 
voice opposi­next year, the 
we could, and we
tion Monday. allocation for "With the $15 allocated every bit the off-campus increase, we student organi­
ofit." 
heard that $10 zation has would go to decreased. And 
Steve Friend 
College Friend said the Readership and Student Union treasurer organization is 
$5 would go to everyone else," said Kerry Kilbourn, CCC president. "But we're not see­ing the money." 
The CCC saw no increase in allocation this year, despite a request for nearly $1,500 in additional funding. 
Friend justified the alloca­tions for the College Readership Program, which will provide three national newspapers on campus daily next fall. 
"The College Readership Program was a unique request this year," Friend said. "Unlike any of the oth­ers, it required full allocation, and that's why it was met." 
Another contested alloca­tion was that of the Hall 
Presidents Co.uncil (HPC). The HPC requested funding that totaled over $800,000 ­almost twice the overall Student Union budget. HPC received the highest propor­tion of its request besides the College Readership Program. 
Friend said while HPC was only allocated $45,000 last year, the group was reallocat­ed quite a bit more. This year's $14,000 increase antic­ipates HPC will not need any more money at reallocation. 
Though off-campus stu­
dents will com­
prise a larger 
not promised 

any more next fall. 
"We don't have a priority list for reallocation," Friend said. "I can't guarantee that if off-campus comes in that they're going to get any­thing." 
While few organizations have been allocated as much as requested, groups should be reallocated a substantial amount later next fall as rev­enue estimates were modest, Friend said. 
"Our goal was to allocate as much as we could, and we allocated every bit of it," he said. 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 
Tuesday, April 25, 2006 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Week 
continued from page 1 
we cannot celebrate our friends' graduation with them. To not be able to see everyone off makes me sad, really." 
Class of 2006 Viee President Anna Skoien said she hopes sen­iors who will return to the University for a fifth year of studies understand University policy prohibits students not graduating this year from par­laking in events. 
Skoien said she was informed of this policy 
!the Class Cou n1~i II eon­sidered chang­ing it." 
"This is the policy that was presented to me, and I thought that was an assumed thing ... architects participate in a fifth y1~ar, and we believed they must have alrnady been told this," she said. 
Assistant Director of Student Activities Hyan Willerton said Class Council members arc pri­marily rnsponsible for the plan­ning of events and that all poli­des "may b1~ stated on the class Wnb sitn." 
Willerton also said all concerns should be addressed to the Class Council. 
Senior Class Council members have discussed the issue, but Skoien said the policy "is not anything we as students are enforcing ... Hegardless of if [a student] entered as the Class of 2006, the University's policy is if [a student! does not graduate in May they cannot participate in Senior Week." 
Skoien said she does not want ineligible seniors to think the council is "trying to spite them in any way." 
"I know some architects are 

about one "/feel left out. I think it is week ago by kind ofridiculous we 
S1H1ior Class 
cannot celebrate our

Couneil faculty 
advisor Amy friends' graduation with C1~ist. them. To not be able to see 
Skoien was 
everyone offmakes me 

unaware of 
when this poli­sad, really. ·· cy was created and said she 
Sonia Garcia 

did not "think 
architecture student 
upset, but I don't think that this is something Senior Class Council wants them to feel nega­tive about," she said. 'To 
m e 
University policy is something most people are aware of." 
But for seniors like Donovan and 
Outage 
continued from page 1 
portion from outside suppliers. Since the suppliers who pro­vide approximately half of Notre Dame's power were cut off, the campus lost about half of its power. 
"Nine feeders tripped, which is about half of the 20 feeders," Kempf said. 
The feeders -lines that supply power to clusters of buildings -shut down as a result of the temporary lack of power. When the power was restored, feeders went through a reconnection process and they came back on automati­cally. 

The loss of electricity was not the only effect of the power outage, as Internet service for all of campus was lost as a result. 
"The whole network was down," Aaron Wright, a techni­cal support analyst for OIT said. 
He said while back-up gener­ators exist to protect critical areas of the network such as the data center, they are not meant to keep all of campus running during a power out­age. 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 
Rozun1 
continued from page 1 
include Chris Zorich {1991 ), Walt Collins (1996), Jen Renola (1997), Father John Wilson (2001 ). Hi chard Conklin (2001 ), Aubrey Lewis (2002), Father AI D'Alonzo (2003), Dr. Donald Diebold (20o:n. Dr. Hobert Perry (2004), Dr. Haymond Holden (2004) and Ken Kwak (2005). 
Contact Peter Ninneman at pninnema@nd.edu 


Garda, not being able to partici­pate in the week's events leaves them feeling robbed of final memories with fellow seniors. 
"It seems unfair because we are part of the Class of 2006," Donovan said. "These are all the kids I have shared my ND expe­rience with and who I would want to spend my Senior Week with." 
Contact Kelly Meehan at 
kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Interin1 
continued from page 1 
College of Engineering Frank Incropera to research split­ting the position of vice presi­dent for graduate studies and research into two positions. If split, one position would be responsible for issues relating to academics, while the other would be responsible for issues related to research. 
There is "no one particular model that is used" by uni­versities, Burish said. 
Burish said "no final deci­sion" would be made until Incropera's committee reach­es a conclusion. 
The search itself will take time, Burish said. 
"I anticipate a national search for one person to fill the role of vice president, or two if it is divided," he said. 

Pope-Davis specializes in the areas of multicultural psychology, counseling and education. He is also the co­author of three books related to his fields of expertise, and he has had more than 50 journal articles and book chapters published. 
Pope-Davis was appointed assistant viee president of the Notre Dame Graduate School in 2002 and was promoted to associate vice president two years later. He has also served as a coordinator for the Multicultural Research Institute and is a director of Notre Dame's McNair Scholars Program. 
He is the chair of Notre Dame's Faculty Board on Athletics and its NCAA faculty athletics representative. 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 

www.sportsline.com/triviatower 

Join the only massive tournament-style trivia game, pitting players head-to-head to test their sports trivia knowledge. Hundreds of thousands will compete in the Trivia Tower, but only one champion will emerge. 
FIGHTING IRISH trivia begins TODAY at 4 PM. Check it out and test your Notre Dame know-how! 

ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, April25, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVBrs WlRE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Car bombs amass Iraqi casualties 
BAGHDAD -A string of car bombs rocked Baghdad on Monday, killing 10 people and wounding nearly 80 in an apparent campaign to discredit Iraq's new leadership. At least 15 people were killed in other bombings and shootings. 
Police also discovered the bodies of 28 peo­ple in the capital and the northern city of Mosul. They included 15 police recruits from Ramadi who were kidnapped Sunday and slain by insurgents, police said. 
The seven car bombs exploded over a five­hour period in six widely separated neighbor­hoods across the capital. The first blast occurred near the Health Ministry and killed five people, Lt. Col. Faleh al-Mohammedawi said. 
Nepal king offers peace to protesters 
KATMANDU -Nepal's embattled King Gyanendra on Monday reinstated the lower house of Parliament and expressed his sympa­thies for those killed in weeks of pro-democra­cy protests, trying to avoid a bloody showdown between demonstrators and his security forces. 
"We extend our heartfelt condolences for all those who have lost their lives in the people's movement," Gyanendra said in the address, broadcast on state television and radio. 
Nepal's largest opposition party welcomed the king's comments, and the sounds of celebrato­ry shouts and whistles could be heard in the streets of Katmandu minutes after the 11:30 
p.m. speech. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Siraj faces bial for subway bomb plot 
NEW YORK -A Pakistani immigrant, angered by the war in Iraq and the Abu Ghraib prison scandal, plotted to bomb one of the city's busiest subway stations in 2004 to teach America "a good lesson," a prosecutor said Monday at a federal conspiracy trial. 
The defendant; Shahawar Matin Siraj, consid­ered striking several potential targets including the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge before settling on the Herald Square subway station, said A'lsistant U.S. Attorney Todd Harrison. 
"In the summer of 2004, he could barely pass a bridge or subway station without planning to place a bomb there," Harrison said. 
Defense attorney Martin Stolar told jurors his client was entrapped by an informant who had infiltrated a Brooklyn mosque. 
The government "created a crime where none previously existed," Stolar said. 
Jury takes up Moussaoui's fate 
ALEXANDRIA, Va.-Zacarias Moussaoui's tate was placed Monday afternoon in the hands of a jury that will decide whether he is executed for his part in the deaths of Sept. 11, 2001. 
Jurors opened deliberations at 2:26 p.m. EDT, after final pleadings from the prosecution to "put an end to his hatred and venom" by opting for execution, and from the defense to spare him the martyr's death he seeks and send him to prison for life instead. 
The jury decided in 15 hours of deliberations over four days earlier this month that Moussaoui, 37, the only man charged in this country in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, was responsible for deaths that day even though he was in jail. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Teen center workers face sex charges 
INDIANAPOLIS -Nine former juvenile deten­tion workers are facing sexual misconduct and other charges for allegedly having sex with six teenage girls detained at the center between 2000 and 2005. 
Marion County Prosecutor Carl Brizzi said Monday that the men wooed girls ages 13 to 15 with love letters and gifts, including a teddy bear emblazoned with the words "I Love You." 
Damon Ellison, the center's superintendent, is charged with neglect of a dependent and obstruction of justice for allegedly failing for six years to report the rape of a girl housed at the center on Indianapolis' northeast side. 
EGYPT 

Blasts devastate tourist area 
Attack occurs day after bin Laden's warning, al-Qaida involvement unconfirmed 
Associated Press 
CAIRO -Three nearly simultaneous explosions rocked the Egyptian resort city of Dahab on Monday, killing at least 22 people and wounding more than 150 in a terror attack at the height of the tourist season. 
Police said the explosions hit the central part of the city where there are many shops, restaurants, bars and guesthouses. The blasts ripped through the town at 
7:15 p.m., shortly after nightfall, when the streets would have been jammed with tourists -mainly Egyptians, Europeans, Israelis and expatriates liv­ing in Egypt. 
The attackers struck a day after al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden issued a taped warning that ordinary Western citizens had become legitimate targets of his terrorist organization because of their support of governments that he said were conducting a "crusad­er war against Islam." 
President Hosni Mubarak, whose economy is heavily dependent on tourism, said the blasts were a "sinful ter­rorist action." 

A witness, Serge Loussararian, told CNN that an explosion took place in will be affected by this for a injuries had been brought to other security agencies have an area with restaurants long, long time." his emergency room alone. said they suspect al-Qaida. and bars. "We heard the British tourist Paul Terrorist attacks have In Washington, a U.S. explosion and then we saw McBeath told Sky News that killed nearly 100 people at counterterrorism official, a big light. And a lot of peo­there had been "no warning several tourist resorts of who spoke on condition of ple running," he said. whatsoever." Egypt's Sinai region in the anonymity in compliance 
Another witness said the "There were just three past two years. with office policy, said that it AI Capone restaurant, one loud bangs and people rush­Bombings in the resorts of is unclear who is behind of the resort area's most ing around," McBeath said. Taba and Ras Shitan, near Monday's attack. U.S. offi­popular spots, was "Everybody is shaken." the Israeli border, killed 34 cials have not ruled out the destroyed. Security officials, who people in October 2004. possibility that al-Qaida 
"At the restaurant, there would not allow use of their Last July, suicide attackers may be involved, but have is nothing there. The tables names because they were in the resort of Sharm e)­no evidence showing that's and chairs have gone, there not authorized to release Sheik killed at least 64 peo­the case. is nothing left," Joseph information, said at least 22 ple, mainly tourists. Nor do officials have any Nazir, who owns a safari bodies had been recovered. The Egyptian government evidence that bin Laden's company in Dahab, told Dr. Muhammed Hussein at has said the militants who tape, released Sunday, was Britain's Press Association. the Dahab International carried out the bombings in any way linked to the "Everybody is panicking, a Hospital said 12 bodies and :were locals without interna­attack, said the counterter­lot of people are crying. We 23 people with serious tional connections, but rorism official. 

Bush calls deportation unrealistic 
Associated Press 
IRVINE, Calif. -President Bush, rebutting lawmakers advocating a law-and-order approach to immi­gration, said Monday that those who are calling for massive deportation of the estimated 11 million foreign­ers living illegally in the United States are not being realistic. 
"Massive deportation of the peo­ple here is not going to work," Bush said as a Congress divided over immigration returned from a two­week recess. "It's just not going to work." 
In addition to speaking here, Bush was meeting Tuesday with a biparti­san group of senators at the White House to press his case. 
In Irvine, Bush spoke in support of a stalled Senate bill that includes provisions that would allow for eventual citizenship to some of the illegal immigrants already here. Some conservatives say that would amount to amnesty. 

"This is one of the really impor­tant questions Congress is going to have to deal with," Bush said. The president said he thought the Senate "had an interesting approach by saying that if you'd been here for five years or less, you're treated one way, and five years or more, you're treated another." 
Standing in the center of a theater in the round-type setting with an audience full of business people, Bush spoke sympathetically about the plight of foreigners who risk their lives to sneak into the United States to earn a decent wage. He said the U.S. needs a temporary guest worker program to stop peo­ple from paying to be smuggled in the back of a truck. 
"I know this is an emotional debate," Bush told the Orange County Business Council. "But one thing we can't lose sight of is that we are talking about human beings, decent human beings." 
Lawmakers, with an eye on Election Day in just over six months, remain far apart on whether to crack down on illegal immigrants or embrace them as vital contributors to the U.S. econo­my. 
Bush said it's important to enforce border laws that are on the books and boasted that 6 million immi­grants have been captured and turned back since he took office. 
"You can be a nation of law and be a compassionate nation at the same time," he said to applause. 
page 6 The Observer +INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, April 25, 2006 
PANAMA 
President announces expansion of canal 
Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY -Panama's president said a planned expansion of the Panama Canal would define the waterway's "role in the 21st century" and on Monday called on voters to support a referendum to pay for the proposal. 
Tlw expansion to make way for hugo n1~w container ships that can carry twice as much cargo is 1~xpnctnd to eost $5.3 billion -in a country whose government budget is $6.5 billion a year. It will be put to voters in a refenlndum later this year. 
In a sp1\ech telPvised nationwide Monday evening. 
nation to widen the canal is fueled by fears that newer, larger ships will seek other routes between the Atlantic and the Pacific. 
"The Panama Canal route is facing competition," Torrijos said. "If we do not meet the challenge to continue to give a competitive service other routes will emerge that will replace ours. It would be unforgivable to refuse to improve the capacity of the waterway." 
The Torrijos government also is counting on an eco­nomic windfall that would come from an estimated 7,000 jobs during the five­year construction. 
Hecent polls 
indicate that a 
President Martin  "lfwe do not meet  majority  of  
Torrijos said the nxpansion, approved by the  the challenge to continue to give a  Panamanians favor the expan­sion, which the  
board of direc­ competitive service,  president said  
tors of the Panama Canal, was "the most  other routes will emerge that will  would be financed through canal  
important deci­ replace ours. "  fees and  some  
sion  about the  bank  invest­ 
canal and its role in the 21st century."  Martin Torrljos president  ments without risking govern­ment social pro- 

The biggPst ships that can pass through the canal's cur­rent locks are known as "Panamax" vessels and can carry 4,000 cargo containers. They barely fit in the locks, which are about 1OS feet wide. 
The projeet calls for the construction of a third set of locks of water chambers that will allow the large "Post­Panamax" class of cargo ships to use the 50-mile waterway between the 
Atlantic  and  the  Paeific  
oceans.  
The  president  - whose  

father, Omar Torrijos, negoti­ated the 1979 treaty that eventually gave Panama total control over the canal ­appealed to Panamanians to support the expansion. 
The government's determi­grams. 
In 2005, Panama earned $1.2 billion in canal fees, maintenance and other related services levied on some 13,000 ship crossings. 
Panama took over the administration of the water­way on December 31, 1999, the day the U.S. military pres­ence in Panama ended. The United States is the main user of the canal, followed by the combined South American countries and China. 
Opponents of the expan­sion, among them former canal administrator Fernando Manfredo, argue that the project is unnecessary and risky because it depends on variables like the growth of maritime world trade, world economic fluctuations and even polities. 
Undergraduate
Engagement
. 
Research,lllScholarly,
and 
Creative Endeavors 
Come hear Notre Dame undergraduates present the results of their scholarly inquiry 
School of Architecture 
4th yr Final Academic Review 
104, 114, and Gallery of Bond Hall 1:15-6 PM, Wed., April 26 
Dept. of Chemistry & Biochemistry 
Student Paper Day 
St. Mary's Science Hall, 1-5 PM, Thur., April27 
Arts, Lett. & Sci. Honors Program 
Final Colloquium 
L 141 DeBartolo, 7-9 PM, Thur., April 27 _j 
Uuutrgr4urtlt4n.rr.uu.tuu 
VENEZUELA 

Chavez pushes to increase control 
State-owned oil company proposes larger stake in heavy crude projects 
Associated Press 
CAHACAS -Venezuelan 
President Hugo Chavez wants to 
further increase state control 
over some of the country's most 
promising oil projects in a move 
industry analysts warn could 
squeeze corporate profits and 
spook foreign investment. 
A proposal raised by state oil company Petroleos de Venezuela SA, or PDVSA, to take a larger stake in heavy crude projects operating in the oil-rich Orinoco Hiver basin has yet to be spelled out. But analysts warn it is threatening to hurt long-term oil production in an area that potentially outstrips Saudi Arabia's proven reserves at a time when oil prices are ris­ing on fears of depleting deposits and surging demand. 
In comments published over the weekend, Eulogio Del Pino, a PDVSA director who oversees contracts with foreign oil com­panies, told the El Universal newspaper that Venezuela would like oil majors BP PLC, Exxon Mobil Corp., Chevron Corp., ConocoPhillips, France's Total SA and Norway's Statoil ASA to change four heavy oil upgrading projects into state­controlled joint ventures, known as "mixed companies." 
While the terms have yet to be presented and any changes would need to be approved by congress, Del Pino said the gov­ernment should "do the job completely and the participation of the state should be 51 per­cent." 
Venezuela has already set a precedent for what it has in 

Sl1are Y <:)Ur Hanel A Conversation About Gambling on Campus 
We invite students~ faculty and staff to come together and talk about the issue of gambling. 
T'uesday., April 25., ?006 7:00-8:00 p.rn. l)ooley R.oorn, LaFortune 
First 10 people receive Food Service Gift Cards Refreshn1ents served. 
Hosted by the Task Force on Gambling Issues at Notre Dame. Office of Student Affairs 
c:an~t n1ake it., but have information to share? En1ail: gambling@nd.edu 
mind: earlier this month, it void­
ed oil-pumping contracts with 
private companies at 32 fields 
and replaced them with the new 
mixed-company model that 
gives PDVSA a minimum 60­
percent stake, sharply raised 
royalties and taxes and reduced 
potential drilling acreage by 
almost two-thirds. 
"It's a matter of time," before Venezuela moves to impose sim­ilar terms on the Orinoco proj­ects, which together produce about 600,000 barrels a day, said Juan Carlos Sosa Azpurua, president of Grupo Petroleo YV, a Caracas-based energy consult­ant. 
The results of that could be grave in a sector that needs as much as $5 billion a year just to maintain current production and will probably suffer if oper­ations were to be handed over to other players with less expertise in extracting heavy crude, he said. 
"It's very possible that produc­tion will go down," Sosa said. 
Be said the synthetic crude produced by the projects com­prises only a fraction of total world oil supplies -currently at about 84 million barrels a day -and is unlikely to have a tangible effect on the market. 
Venezuela has so far left little negotiating room from the oil majors in announcing such con­tractual changes. 
PDVSA seized two oil fields from Total and Italy's Eni SpA after they refused to migrate their oil-pumping contracts to the joint ventures earlier this month. Oil Minister Hafael Ramirez has said Venezuela 
does not need companies that 
refuse to adjust to the new 
terms. 
Hamirez said on the sidelines 
of an oil conference in Qatar on 
Sunday that Total and Eni 
would not be compensated for 
the fields they lost. 
Much more is at stake in the Orinoco projeets, where the companies have invested a com­bined $16 billion in developing the technology and infrastruc­ture to extract tar-like bitumen and convert it into lighter, more marketable crudes at the giant Jose refinpry. 
The Orinoco projects in east­ern Venezuela differ markedly from the 32 oil lields where the state has already taken a major­ity share, because companies operating in the Orinoco own the bulk of the oil infrastructure in the area, Sosa said. In the other oil lields, the eompanies did not own such assets. 
"It's going to be much more diflieult," to ealeulate and eom­pensate the companies for investments in the Orinoco if the government deeides to seize them, he said. 
Jose Toro Hardy, an oil analyst and former PDVSA direetor, said the private companies are also clearly the best at exploiting the reserves and it's in Venezuela's interest to keep them there. "The companies that made these investments have been extremely suceessful," he said. 
Most ·of the companies involved have not responded directly to Del Pino's comments, though most indicated discus­sion were ongoing with the gov­ernment. 




--·~ -------· ~ ---------­
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS

Tuesday, April25, 2006 page 7 

Microsoft battles Europe ruling 
Software giant claims software the EU required them to release did not sell 
Associated Press 
LUXEMBOURG -The 
European Commission 
forced the world's largest 
software maker to offer a 
product no one wanted and 
no one bought, Microsoft 
Corp. told the EU's second­
highest court on Monday as 
it began trying to overturn a 
landmark antitrust ruling 
against it. 
Microsoft lawyer Jean­Francois Bellis said in his opening statement that the Commission made "funda­mental errors of fact and reasoning" in its decision two years ago that the company abused its dominant market position to muscle into media software. 
The Commission's order 
that Microsoft offer cus­
tomers a version of its 
Windows desktop operating 
system without its Media 
Player -intended to give 
people a free choice of media 
software -has been a spec­
tacular failure, he said. 
In its core market, no com­
puter maker had shipped a 
PC or laptop with the media­
free Windows XP N version. 

"Not a single one," Bellis told irrelevant because con­Computer Inc.'s iTunes and directly with Windows Media 
the 13 judges. Some 90 per­sumers did not have real Adobe Systems Inc.'s (for­Player. 
cent of Windows sales come freedom of choice over the merly Macromedia Inc.'s) "It (Windows Media 
from being pre-installed on media software they are Flash player did not bear out Player) has become the dom­
computers when they are offered. EU forecasts. inant video streaming appli­
sold. "Microsoft's pleas must be More than 87 percent of cations product today only 
XP N sales represent 0.005 ignored," he told the court. computer users now play because it was tied to the 
percent of overall XP sales in "This is the world according media on non-Windows soft­Windows monopoly," ECIS 
Europe, Microsoft told the to Microsoft where it decides ware, Evans said, and PC said in a statement. 
court, and many of the ones what is best for consumers." manufacturers have doubled "Consumers are obliged to 
produced may remain He said the company effec­the number of media players accept Windows Media 
unsold, it said. tively controls the market pre-installed on personal Player on the PCs they pur­
French retailer FNAC, the because seven out of ten computers in Europe over chase and content providers 
single largest retailer to computers sold in Europe the last two years. have little choice but to write 
order XP N with 46 percent ship with Media Player. "If the Commission was their content to work with 
of the orders, has said that it Developers see these figures correct, we should see a the ubiquitous technology," it 
sees no consumer demand and make content for the steep downward trend," he said. 
for the product, Microsoft player, a situation that said. The EU fined the 
said. squeezes rivals even further, The European Committee Redmond, Washington­
"The failure to offer a he said. for Interoperable Systems -based company a record 497 
product that nobody wants Bellis said the Commission a group representing some million euros ($613 million) 
cannot be an abuse," Bellis was wrong to predict that its of Microsoft's rivals -said in 2004 after deciding that 
said. media player would quash this was false reasoning, Microsoft had taken advan­
But Commission lawyer rival software. Economist because iTunes and others tage of its position as the 
Per Hellstrom said David Evans told the court are not fully functioning leading supplier of software 
Microsoft's arguments were that the success of Apple media software that compete for PC operating systems. 

Reserve accuses bank of loose grip 
Associated Press a timely manner," said Thomas Renyi, trust banks, was rocked by revela­
the bank's chairman and chief execu­tions in late 1999 that it had served 
WASHINGTON -The Federal tive. as a conduit for $7 billion in Russian Reserve has accused the Bank of New The Fed formally sanctioned the money -some of it believed to be York of failing to tighten its controls Bank of New York in February 2000 from criminal activities. The case was against money laundering as it had for allegedly lax control and risk­thought at the time to be the largest promised in 2000 in a case that management procedures in its opera­money-laundering scandal in U.S. his­resulted in its paying $38 million in tions involving international banking, tory. criminal penalties. fund transfers and stock listings for Former Bank of New York executive 
The Bank of New York, one of the foreign companies. In an accord with Lucy Edwards and her husband, nation's oldest, was not fmed in a new the regulators at the time, the bank Peter Berlin, pleaded guilty in agreement with the Fed and the New promised to correct the alleged defi­February 2000 to federal money­York State Banking Department, ciencies by tightening its anti-money­laundering charges. They admitted which was dated Friday and made laundering controls and its screening helping Russian bankers wash billions public on Monday. The bank was of customers in those operations. of dollars through accounts at the given 60 days this time to review its The central bank terminated the bank to avoid Russian taxes and cover compliance with regulations, submit a sanction in June 2002 because, it up the money's connection to crimes plan for strengthening its controls said, the bank had complied with the -including money paid as ransom against money laundering and take agreement. for a Russian kidnapping victim. other steps. But the Fed disclosed in the new Last November, the bank agreed to 
In a statement Monday, the bank agreement that reviews conducted pay $38 million in penalties and said it had already completed some of last year found "further deficiencies." undertake reforms to end a long-run­the mandated actions and that others The Bank of New York, founded ning criminal investigation by federal were under way. "We plan to fulfill with the aid of Alexander Hamilton in authorities into fraud and money the expectations of the agreement in 1784 and one of the nation's largest laundering. 

ISTANBUL Orthodox Christians around the world celebrated Easter Sunday, worshipping at candlelit serv­iens from Hussia to Ethiopia before gathering families for outdoor feasts. 
Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I, spiritual leader of 200 million Orthodox Christians, led prayers on Easter eve in the crowded Church of St. George in Istanbul. A flame brought from the site of .Jesus' grave in Jerusalem was passed from candle to candle. 
Thn patriareh called for peace, telling the congrega­tion, "Wn call for an end to the killing of one another, and we denounce the violence and 
fanatieism that "The church is our boiled eggs, dyed threatens life." hope for the red to symbolize I n the blood of Christ.
future.,

.Jerusalem's In Cyprus, youths Church of the around the island lloly Sepulcher, Archbishop lit traditional hundreds of Chrlstodoulos Easter bonfires to Orthodox burn effigies of
Orthodox leader 
are suffering because of the flooding," he said, speaking from his window overlooking St. Peter's Square to tens of thousands of pilgrims. 
The disaster has forced thousands from their homes yet Orthodox Christians still managed to celebrate Easter. llomanian refugees held serv­iees outdoors in the flood­stricken village of Hast, where priests used an improvised altar in an open tent. 
Similar services in other flooded Eastern European vil­lages were aceompanied by fireworks and even celebrato­ry gunfire. 
Easter celebrations, a blend religious and local traditions, typically include a spit-roast lamb dinner and a display of hard­

Christians gath­ernd for Mass. Candles glowed around the tomb where many Christians believe Jesus was buried, and hymns fillnd the cavernous grotto-like church. 
Orthodox Christians use a different calendar from Homan Catholics and Protestants, so their celebra­tion of Easter usually falls on a different date from the rest of Christianity and always after the Jewish festival of Passover. Coptic Christians in Egypt and some 25 million Ethiopian Christians also cele­brated Easter on Sunday. 
At the Vatican, Pope Benedict XVI joined Orthodox religious leaders' calls for peace and offered prayers for victims of flooding along the Danube Hiver. 
"In the joyous atmosphere of these days, I cannot not reeall that many of these peoples, in 
Judas -the disei­ple thought to have betrayed Jesus. 
In Greece, Orthodox leader Arehbishop Christodoulos said the church remains a source of defiance against the nega­tive effects of globalization and dominanee of major world powers. 
"The church is our hope for the future," Christodoulos said in his Easter message. "It is the living and new resistance against the murderous world order which throws every independent voice, every protest of conscience and rea­sonable opposition into the meat grinder." 
Christodoulos' remarks were seen in part as a reference to the United States, ahead of demonstrations planned this week by anti-globalization and other groups against a visit by 
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Hice. 
Associated Press 
JEHUSALEM-A 16-year-old American tourist is fighting for his life a week after a Tel Aviv suicide bombing, and thousands are praying for him after an Internet appeal. 
Daniel Wultz came to Israel with his parents, Tuly and Sheryl, to visit relatives on Passover. They live in Weston, Fla,. north of Miami. 
On April 1 7, father and son were eating lunch in Tel Aviv when a Palestinian suicide bomber ignited 10 pounds of explosives at the entrance to the restaurant. The bomb killed six Israelis, two Homanians, a Freneh tourist and the bomber. Dozens of people were wounded. 

Critically wounded, Daniel was taken to lchilov Hospital. Doetors removed his spleen and a kidney and treated a serious leg wound. His condition remains eritical, hospital oflicials said. 
His father suffered less severe injuries but remains hospital­ized. 
The Wultzes, who have declined to speak to the media, asked their friends and _congre­gation to pray for their son. On Monday, the David Posnaek Hebrew Day School in Plantation, Fla., where Daniel has been a student sinee elemen­tary school, held a prayer service for him. 
Haehel Keller, director of Judaie studies at the school, said, "Daniel is a most remarkable young man. lie is a person of great moral convictions and has been a wonderful asset to our school." 
In addition to praying for Daniel, the Chabad Lubaviteh of Weston has set up a fund in his name. 
The family's request for prayers also went out over the Internet, where it rnaehed Naomi Hagen, whose best-selling novels include "The Covenant," a tale of Israelis whose lives are changed by terrorism. 
"I got an e-mail from a woman in Dearborn, Mieh.," Hagon said, "who forwarded to me a letter shn had received from a friend of hers. The message gave Daniel's name and his age and asknd that people pray for him." 

Scientists study energy in space 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -With gaso­line hitting $3 per gallon, seien­tists have just found the most energy-efficient engines in the universe -black holes, those whirling super-dense centers of galaxies that suck in nearly everything. 
The jets of energy spurting out of older ultra-efficient black holes also seem to be playing a crucial role as zoning cops in large galaxies, preventing too many stars from sprouting. That explains why there aren't as many burgeoning galaxies chock full of stars as previously expect­ed, said scientists citing results from NASA's Chandra X-ray Observatory that were released Monday. 
For the first time, scientists measured both the mass of hot gas that is being sueked into nine older black holes and the unseen super-speedy jets of high energy particles spit out, which essen­tially form a cosmie engine. Then they determined a rate of how efficient these older black hole engines are and were awe­struck. 

These blaek holes are 25 times more efficient than anything man has built, with nuclear power being the most efficient of man-made efforts, said study lead author Steve Allen of Stanford University and the Stanford Linear Aceelerator Center. 
"If you could make a car engine that was as efficient as one of these black hole engines you could get about a billion miles per gallon of gas," Allen said. "In anyone's book that would be pretty grnnn." 
The galaxies in which these black holes live are bigger than ours, the Milky Way, and 50 mil­lion to 400 million light-years away. One light-year is nearly 5.9 trillion miles. The blaek hole at the center of our galaxy wasn't studied beeause it wasn't gas­rkh and big enough so scientisl'i couldn't measure what was going in and coming out, Allen said. 
The results were surprising beeause the types of black holes studied were older, less powerful and generally considered "bor­ing," scientists said. But they ended up being more efficient than originally thought -possi­bly as eflkient as their younger, brighter and more potent black hole siblings called quasars. 

~et ready for Graduati0111 
~' 
rt. Receive a free brow wax with any service or purchase "t Check out our service menu at bangssalon.com! 

a~ s 
afuJJ-ser\lic.e sal~ti 

10% student discounts are still honored! Just blocks from campus at 1639 N. Ironwood Drive. 
~ 574.243.0960~ 
POMSQUAP rttvours 
Workshop 1: Thurs Apr 27 &:3D-9:30pm 1St CUI: Fri Apr 28 6:30-9:30pm 
workshop 2: Sat Apr 29 11:00-2:00pm Final cut: Sun Apr 30 4:00-1:00pm 
Trvouts will take place in '1he Pit" of the JACC 

Tuesday, April 25, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

The Red Rose Gala 

A Benefit Formal to Aid Local Survivors of Violence Against Women 
All proceeds benefit South Bend's only domestic violence shelter, the YWCA of St. Joseph County, and the local rape crisis center, the S--0--S of Madison Center. 
Friday, April 28, 2006 8pm to 12am East Wing of South Dining Hall 
Come for dancing, a live band, a silent auction and delicious treats. 
PURCHASE TICKETS AT THE LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE ALL THIS WEEK! 
$15 Undergraduates $25 Faculty and Community Men1bers $5 for the first 50 Graduate Students 
Tickets also available at the door. 
Sponsored By Student Government Feminist Voice Can1pus Alliance for Rape Elimination 
C<rSponsored By 

Gender Relations Center A Life Uncommon Center for Social Concerns College Libertarians Graduate Student Union College Democrats Men Against Violence Coro Primavera 
Women in Politics Children's Defense Fund Women's Legal Forum Social Justice Forum Graduate Women in Business Progressive Student Alliance 
Together, the Notre Dame community stands 
• 

united to end violence against women. PLEASE JOIN US. 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 
Tuesday, April25, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box 779, Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEI' Mike Gilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maullie Hanna Paula Garcia 

Ass·I: MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffm 
NEWS EDITORS: Amanda Michaels Mary Kme Malone VII\WPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtauer SAINT MAnY'S Eorron: Kelly Medw1 1'11010 EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebctsch 

ADVEilTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLEil: Jim Kirihara WEH AJ>MINISTRA:ffiR: Damian Althoff SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Alcjanuro Gerbauu 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (174) 631 -(>927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4141 obsme@)nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-53U 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spom.1@nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4140 scene.l@nd.cdu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 

There is no one true faith 
The belief that there is one true religion has inealeulably hampered mankind's quest fi>r truth. There is no one most true religion; every religion offers wisdom to be gleaned by the philosophieally inquisi­tive. Most of the major modern world reli­gions have historically refused to reeognizP this rnality, bneause they have an institu­tional imperative to perpetuate them­selves. II' they should have recognized truth in other religions, they would have gained a less firm hold upon their adherents. Truth is not the private pos­session of any belief system, it is common­ly held by all the major world religions. 
All the traditions of the major world religions are nocessarily flawed in several respecl'i. Whether the great sages of his­tory were recording the revelations ollim1d to them by Allah, Yawheh, Christ, the Lord Krishna, the great Buddha or any other figure, it was still a human hand with human prejudices unique to the time or eomposition that wrote down tim interpretations of divine reality. If the divine had inspirnd the sages so that it was rather a human hand dictating exact­ly what the divine desired, then a literal interpretation of scriptures would be cor­reeL The world religious traditions and scriptures contain unethical stories, con­tradietions and falsehoods that predude this from being a reality. The myths of the Old Testament, for instance, have pas­sages that suggest entirely unethical courses of action -like the stoning of certain peoples, or the divinely inspired sacking of cities. 

I an Ronderos 
Liberated 

The great sages were attempting to eapture the divine reality, and did capture elements of it. No human religion could ever capture all of it though -religions were created by human beings. Human logic can never completely comprehend or understand the divine. The divine is perfect, and hence the supreme and high­est liwm of logic. In order for humans to be able to understand the logic of' divinity, it would mean that our lesser, flawed logic would be able to contain and control the elements of this logic divine. Nothing that is inferior is able to contain that which is superior; thus, it is an impossibility for men to understand the lot:,tic of the gods. 
The wise man, understanding that truth is present in all religions, and can never truly be limnd. does not turn away from the quest for divine. He steels himself and redoubles his resolve. The search for the divine becomes much harder, because instead of looking for truth within one tra­dition, the ehallenge becomes to seareh within manifold traditions. One must, like a prospeetor, silt dirt through his pan hoping to lind nuggets of gold. Difliwent people lind eertain traditions more rele­vant than others to their individual life and spirituality. People should go forth into the world with a mind open to receive God. 
A particularly healthy approach to spiri­tuality is to develop a fusion of religious ideas, and to mold them into a coherent and sound philosophy that can be applied to one's life. Where one religion is weak, another is often strong. For example, the western religious tradition tends to draw hard dualities, like that of people and God. These seem to be false dualities to this writer. I find that the Hindu concept of the immanenee of God everywhere, and in e.veryo.ne, seems more real. God is literally in everyone; we are part of God, perhaps better seen as an absolute rnality. I firmly believe the Christian ideal of fra­ternallove and compassion. Hence, I am trying to fuse Eastern and Western tradi­ti<ms, in order to create a Hindu-Christian approach. It works li>r me, but I don't necessarily expect it to work for others. Everyone must lind out filr himself what religious traditions lie in harmony with the truth he has felt via life. 
Spirituality is an intensely personal experience, and one should seek to actu­alize her potential to participate in the beauty and splendor of the divine. If pno­ple peg themselves within one tradition only beeause they were born into it, they will not know if they arn getting the most out of their spirituallilf1. The tradition of someone's birth may be the eorrnct one or ones for him, and that is perfeetly line and aeceptable. One can only know this through experienee. All truth is experien­tial at its roots. Empiricism is the way to lind the divine. Philosophy takes the raw, visceral experienees of our lives, and orders them in a way that our mind ean process and understand them. Experience tempered by empirical philosophy is the path to the absolute reality of God. While we ean never fully understand this reality, we can become eloser to it, and gain a firmer, though still ineompletP, under­standing of it. 
Ian Ronderos is a senior majoring in the Classics with a supplementary major in ancient Greek and Roman civilizations. Writing this column has been a pleasure. He would like to thank all ofhis friends for the philosophical conversations with­out which this column would have been an impossibility. Life is a celebration. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saim Mary's C.ollege. Editorial comem, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisemems based on conrem. 
The n<'WS is rt·ported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the m:~jority of the Editor in Chief. Managing F.diror, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. C~1mmentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Qumiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to F.ditor in ChiefMike Gilwon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

llu· (lltJC:rvcr (lJSJIS 1)1)() l-4000) i• l'u!J~haJ Mtm,l.ly 1hmugh tndAy except durin~ rum ~•ul vat..uiun pcrirKI.. A uJb.uiptton to The OhtcTVcr j, Slll!l furuuc.&~.1lderruL yt"Ur~ $'S~ fur illlt' w:mr:\u•r, 
'l'ht lll.c:M:r is pu!Jiithed ac: POSTMASTER Ol'l Suurh Dming t I.all .Xnd Addre!ll comerions tu: 
N111tc ilamc, IN <\MSt)·On9 1bt Obttm:t 
PnindtCJl ~kNit.tge ~lolid ;at Nvlrt" Dame P.O. Bor n9 .mJ ,~J,liJional mllilm~ offices 02-1 Sourh Dining Hall 
Nou~ D;unc, IN 465~·0779 

The (. )h\CtYCr ill o1 member uf tho: Aaociata'l PreY. All rqmx!uL:tion rigln.s u~ teM:rvcd. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Improving relations, one can at a time 
I've always been one to defend the police whenever peers dent's camera, and the blatant lack of respect (on both sides). complain about "the man getting them down" when what that Truly, this did little to illustrate Notre Dame at its finest. really means is "the police doing their job." However, after So what did the presence of NDSP achieve? Increased ani­seeing the NDSP do everything in their power to prevent the mosity between students and police oflicers, some citations, MCAT examinees from celebrating the completion of an eight­possibly a good amount of recycling and general discontent. I hour test that requires an entire semester (if not more) of will acknowledge that safety is a valid concern, and that the preparation, I felt compelled to write a letter. job of the police is to protect and serve, but I truly believe that, 
Yes, I'm sure that champagne showers on the quad are with the number of oflicers present, it would have been sufli­against du Lac, illegal, etc. Same goes for beer. I'm sure that cient to let the students celebrate and only step in when some­in terms of the applicable rules, the students' actions were thing blatantly dangerous was happening. Had this been the blatantly wrong. I also acknowledge the fact that NDSP's role case, I wouldn't be writing this letter, because I realize that is not to improve relationships between the students and safety is important and should be given priority. I Iowever, I authority. However, with all the disclaimers in place, I present would classify the amount of NDSP involvement as "preventing my point: as much jubilation as humanly possible" instead of "reaeting 
The presence of NDSP oflicers outside of Debartolo Hall on to danger." I am truly disappointed that post-MCAT celebra­Saturday, April 22, did little to improve ... well... just about tion turned out the way it did. The examinees deserved the anything. If the goal of the oflicers was to prevent students celebration, everyone deserved more respect, and supportive from consuming alcohol then I assure you, they failed. Maybe friends deserved aeknowledgement as supportive friends, they stopped people from drinking on the quad, but I'm fairly instead of being treated like unsavory youths. certain that the kids that planned on celebrating ended up Maybe next year the students should adopt a "For every bot­doing it at a difl'erent time and place. If their goal was to tle of champagne you dump, I'm going to drink three" policy. maintain the pristine image of Notre Dame in front of the Or maybe the administration will remember that they, too, campus visitors that came for the Blue & Gold Game, I assure were fun-loving college kids at one point... but let's go with the you, they failed. However, I'm not sure how impressed the visi­former next year, just to be safe. tors were with the random bag searc~hes (including kids just coming out of the MCATs, as if they brought drinks with them Vince Thomas to the test), the bickering between students and the oflicers junior (including ealling students "idiotic," an effective means of con­Siegfried Hall veying an opposing viewpoint, to be sure), the lheft of a stu-April24 
TODAY'S STAFF 

N(~WS Sports OBSERVER POLL Karen Langley Kate Gales 
Peter Ninneman Dan Murphy Do you agree with CLAP's Pat Moore Chris Hine proposal to raise the hourly Viewpoint Scene 
wage for campus workers to Alyssa Mark 
$12.10 per hour? 

Brauweiler Bemenderfer Graphics Alexa Antekeier Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
Submit a1•elter,. :..• ··: ..:: .·...: . :. ,:,: ··=·· .,:.. .,, =·· ·~ .•, .. ·>'' . . . ·::. ·-:, •. .. .·::: "As flies to wanton boys, are we to the gods; They kill us for their sport. "to tbe Editor at 

William Shakespeare English playwright 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
J 

OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, April 25, 2006 COMPILED fROM Tl-I£ 0BSERVEltS WJR£ SERViCES page 15 
Women's Tennis ITA 

Top 25  
team record  
1  Stanford 22-0  
2  NOTRE DAME 21-1  
3  Southern California 14-3  
4  Florida 18-1  
5  Baylor 20-3  
6  California 15-6  
7  North Carolina 23-5  
8  Vanderbilt 20-3  
9  Miami (Fla.) 17-5  
10  Georgia Tech 18-5  
11  Northwestern 17-4  
12  Duke 16-6  
13  Pepperdine 17-3  
14  Va. Commonwealth 24-0  
15  UCLA 13-4  
16  TCU 17-6  
17  Clemson 15-6  
18  Harvard 14-6  
19  Texas 13-9  
20  Wake Forest 12-8  
21  Kentucky 15-8  
22  William and Mary 14-7  
23  Fresno State 15-6  
24  Georgia 12-8  
25  Arizona Stale 23-8  
Men's Tennis ITA  
Top 25  
team record  
1  Georgia 22-0  
2  Pepperdine 27-2  
3  Duke 17-6  
4  Texas 18-2  
5  Illinois 18·5  
6  Baylor 15-5  
7  Ohio State 20c1  
8  UCLA 16·5  
g  Virginia 19-7  
10  Miami (Fla.) 11-3  
11  North Carolina 23·3  
12  Va. Commonwealth 22-4  
• 13  Mississippi 18·4  
14  Florida 14-6  
15  Stanford 14·3  
16  NOTRE DAME 15·7  
17  TexasA&M 14-8  
18  Washington 17-4  
19  Florida State 15-10  
20  LSU 15·8  
21  Oklahoma St. 13-4  
22  Arkansas 16·8  
23  California 14-5  
24  Clemson 19·8  
25  Colorado 17-6  
MIAA Softball  
team conf.  
1  Hope 9·1  
2  Albion 8-4  
3  Alma 8·4  
4  Saint Mary's 9·5  
5  Tri·Siate 7·5  
6  Olivet 6·6  
7  Calvin 5·7  
8  Adrian 3·13  
9  Kalamazoo 1·11  

previous 
1 
2 4 3 5 11 10 8 6 12 9 7 6 19 14 20 21 15 17 16 23 22 24 
NR 
18 
preoious 
1 2 6 3 5 4 8 
1 
11 10'i 12 
9 }'4 13 14 15 17 18 20 22 16 19 25 
24 
21 
NR 
oor. 
21·11 20·16 19-9 23·11 19·17 20·10 13·17 12·24 6·22 

around the dial 
NBA 

Washington at Cleveland, 7 p.m., TNT Sacramento at San Antonio, 9:30 p.m., TNT 
NCAA LACROSSE 


Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. -Several Duke University alumni questioned the school's president Saturday about suspending two lacrosse players charged with raping a stripper at a team party, with one saying his alma mater is guilty of "a tremen­dous rush to judgment." 
"It was convenient to throw the lacrosse team overboard along with their coach," said Joe Baden, a 1970 Duke graduate from Raleigh. 
Baden was among about a half dozen alumni to ques­tion President Richard Brodhead during a forum held as part of a weekend of class reunions. During a talk about the school's strategic plan, Brodhead stopped the program for a half hour to specifically take questions from the crowd of nearly 100 about the lacrosse team and the rape allegations. 
Duke has not confirmed it suspended the two players charged with rape, although the university has said the school's practice is to issue an interim suspension when a student is charged with a felony or when the student's presence on the campus may create an unsafe situa­tion. 
"We really asked our­selves, on the matter of interim suspension, 'How do 
IN BRIEF 
Bush refutes housing scandal 
rumors 
LOS ANGELES -Former Southern California star Reggie Bush said there was nothing inappropriate about his family's living arrangement at a home owned by a man who reportedly sought to market him because they paid rent there. 
"My parents leased the house, just like any normal family would," Bush said in an interview Monday. "It's kind of funny how this whole story is get­ting blown out of proportion." 
The Pac-1 0 said Sunday that it will investigate whether any NCAA rules were violated when Bush's family, including mother Denise Griffin, step­father LaMar Griffin and brother Jovan Griffin lived in the Spring Valley, Calif., house while Bush was still play­ing for USC last season. 
The home was owned by Michael Michaels, who reportedly attempted to steer Bush toward signing with San Diego agent David Caravantes. 

we do these things?"' Brodhead told a questioner. "The custom of this place, I assure you it is the custom of many places, on indict­ment for a felony ... that's the way to go with it and that's the way we did it this time." 
Sophomores Reade Seligmann, of Essex Fells, N.J., and Collin Finnerty, of Garden City, N.Y., were charged this past week with first-degree rape, sexual assault and kidnapping. Authorities believe they were two of the three white men who a 27-year-old black single mother says raped her at a March 13 lacrosse team party. 
Both quickly posted a 
$400,000 bond, and attor­neys for the two players and other team members con­tinue to strongly proclaim their innocence. Meanwhile, District Attorney Mike Nifong has said he hopes to charge a third person, whom he has yet to identify with certainty. 
The allegations led Brodhead to cancel the lacrosse season and accept the resignation of the team's 
· coach. Baden wondered whether Brodhead would have done the same if men's basketball coach Mike Krzyzewski, who has won three national titles and is considering among the best in the game, was at the center of the scandal. 
Panthers refuse to match 
Bears' offer for Manning Jr. 
LOS ANGELES -The Carolina Panthers declined to match the Chicago Bears' offer sheet to corner­back Ricky Manning Jr., one day after he was arrested on suspicion of assault following a fight at a restau­rant near the UCLA campus. 
-A Panthers spokesman said the decision was unrelated to the arrest. Manning, a 25-year-old restricted free agent, signed a five-year, $21 million offer sheet with the Bears last Friday after three seasons with Carolina. 
Manning was arrested early Sunday after he allegedly hit a man in the face along with four or five companions at a Denny's restaurant in the Westwood section of Los Angeles, said officer Mike Lopez, a spokesman for the Los Angeles Police Department. Police didn't know what prompted the fight, or whether Manning knew the alleged victim. 
SMU hires former Tar Heel 
Doherty as hoops coach 
DALLAS -SMU hired former national coach of the year Matt Doherty on Monday to try reviving a program that hasn't gone to the NCAA tournament in 13 years. 
Doherty signed a five-year deal, but terms weren't disclosed. Doherty, com­ing off a 15-13 season at Florida Atlantic, replaces Jimmy Tubbs, who was fired April 6 after two losing sea­sons and an internal investigation that uncovered NCAA violations. 
"I look at this as a destination job," Doherty said. "I didn't want to take a job to take another job." 
Doherty, who won a national cham­pionship as a player for North Carolina, broke into coaching with Notre Dame in 1999-2000. He took over the Tar Heels the next season and earned the coach of the year award from The Associated Press for going 26-7 and winning a share of the regu­lar-season ACC title. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 25, 2006 
NBA 

Heat hold off Bulls' run to take two-game lead 
Wade scores 21, including game-clinching shot to stop Chicago's rally with one minute remaining in the game 
Associated Press 
MIAMI-Same old story: With the Miami Heat in trou­ble, Dwyane Wade saved the day. 
Wade hit a spinning jumper in the lane with 1:04 lef't to halt a frantic Chicago rally, and blocknd Ben Gordon's layup with 26 seconds left to ensure that Miami would beat the Bulls 115-1 <H~ on Monday night and take a 2-0 lead in the teams' best-of-seven Eastern Confnnmce first-round series. 
.Jason Williams and Shaquille O'Neal each had 22 points for Miami, which saw what was a 20-point third-quarter lead cut to four with 1:15 remaining. But Wade added 21 points, seven assists, five rebounds and four steals for the Ileal, who tied a franchise playoff record with six players in dou­ble ligures. 
Antoine Walker -who played the first 40:20 without a rest, filling in for the sus­pended Udonis Ilaslem ­added 17 points and 10 rebounds for the Ileal, who also got 12 points from James Posey and 11 from Gary Payton. 
Andres Nocioni led all scor­ers with 30 points-on 13-for­15 shooting -for Chicago. Kirk llinrich had 17 of his 29 points in the fourth quarter for the Bulls, who will host Game 3 on Thursday night. 
The Bulls allowed 111 points or more four times in the regu­lar season. The Heat now have done it twice in this series, and shot 52 percent on Monday. Walker scored off an offensive rebound with 8:12 left, giving Miami a 102-84 lead -and a 

MISHAWAKA. IN. 
258.9999 
327 Union Street, Mishawaka 
two-game series lead seemed all but certain. 
Five minutes later, those prospects were precarious, at best. 
Ilinrich hit three straight jumpers -a personal 7-0 run -to get the Bulls within 102­91 with 4:52 left, and he scored four more points in what was a 13-2 Chicago burst that cut Miami's lead to 104-97 with 3:00 left. 
Wade found Walker for a layup at the 2:46 mark, and hit a jumper 59 seconds later to push Miami's lead baek to 108­
99. Once again, the Bulls weren't done -I-linrich seored, and after Wade missed from the same spot he'd hit from one possession earlier, Nocioni hit a 3-pointer with 
1:15 left that got Chicago with­in four. 
But Wade seored on the next trip, Nocioni threw the ball away on Chicago's next posses­sion, and Miami could soon exhale. 
No one need remind Chicago how a 2-0 series lead guaran­tees little; the Bulls blew a two-game lead in the first round against Washington last season, dropping the next four games. But recovering is a daunting task; the Bulls have prevailed only once in 14 pre­vious playoff series after start­ing with two losses. 
The Heat have taken 2-0 series leads on five other occa­sions, and won them all. 
After Miehael Sweetney hit two free throws with 5.4 sec­onds left in the half, the Bulls could have gone into intermis­sion trailing by only seven. 
Instead, in a flash, the mar­gin was 11. Williams streaked down the 
right sideline and made a layup with 1.2 seconds left ­leaving enough time for one more score. Wade intercepted Chicago's inbound pass and dunked just before the dock went to 0.0, giving Miami a 68­57 lead at the break. 
And the deficit had to per­plex the Bulls, who shot the ball at a ridiculous clip in the first half. They hit 61 percent of their tries, were 6-for-8 from 3-point range and 7 -for-8 from the foul line -yet still faced a double-digit hole, largely because of 12 turnovers that Miami cashed in for 14 points. 
For the second straight game, the Bulls -who led the NBA in field-goal percentage defense during the regular season -couldn't do much to slow Miami's offense. 
The Heat were up 8-0 before the game was 1? minutes old, and although Miami later found itself trailing by three in the second quarter -a period which Chicago began with a 9­0 run -it outscored the Bulls 19-10 in the final five minutes before halftime. 
Miami's lead reached 15, then its largest, after O'Neal and Wade had the opening two baskets of the second half. 
Nocioni had five points in a 7-0 burst that got Chicago within 72-64, but Wade spun in the lane and threw a lob for a one-handed O'Neal slam that got Miami's cushion back to 10 and ended the Bulls' run. 
Posey and Walker hit back­to-hack 3-pointers later in the third to start what became a 12-2 Miami run, with Posey capping it with a layup for an 89-69 lead, and the Heat entered the fourth up 95-76. 
Graduation Weekend: Your seat is reserved. 
Since your parents picked up your meal tob for the 
post four years, soy thank you with dinner-but hey, 
let them poy, thot woy they will know it really is you! 
Now taking reservations for Graduation Weekend Dinners: Thursday, Friday and Saturday from 3pm to Midnight. 
www.UnionStationMishawaka.com 
steaks. chops. seafood 




DiLUXi FooTBALL PACKAGE 
Notre Dame vs. USC Nov. 25th, 2006 
•2 GAME TICKETS 
•2 
AIRUNE TICKETS (AA) O'HARE TO LAX 

•2 NIGHTS HOTEl RESERVATIONS 

•GROUND 
TRAVEl TO/FROM COliSEUM 


•CATERED RALLY THE fRIDAY NIGHT BEFORE THE GAME 
TotaI Package: 
$2,650 per reservation 
(Check or Cash) 
GO IRISH! 



THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, April25, 2006 page 11 
Jenkins' closing statement a serious misstep 
University President Father John Jenkins, in his April 5 closing statement, delivered the name of Notre Dame to val­idate "The Vagina Monologues" movement, including the book of that name, and the Queer Film Festival, with the movement of which it is a part. He distorted the meaning of a Catholic university. And he did it all with persistent incoherence. 
Jenkins ignored the substantive defect<; of the Queer Film Festival and gave it a license as long as it goes by its new name. That is like dealing with a soilod diaper by changing the pins. That validation of the Qm~er Film Fostival may be more significant, but "The Vagina Monologues" was the focus of his statement. 
Jenkins fell for the lie that the "Monologues" oppose violence against womon. "Tho Vagina Monologues" promotes that violence. First, the pro­ceeds go to the YWCA, which informs pregnant women about abortion. in which about half of those murdered are women. Second. the "Monologues" encourage such violence by objectifying women. The human person, as Pope John Paul II put it. is a "unified totality" of body and soul. "The Vagina Monologues" fragments that unity by personifYing a body part and equating the woman to that part. 
The "Monologues" present the vagina as an entity with which the woman should establi'ih a "conscious relation­ship." It includes such gems as, "If your vagina got dressed, what would it wear?" and "If your vagina could talk, what would it say, in two words?" The "Monologues" recount the lesbian seduction of a 16-year-old by a 24-year-old, which the victim describes as "my ... salvation." Another mono­logue consist'> of the repetition of a four-letter expletive describing a body part. Other monologists recount conver­sations with their vaginas or vulvae. Others describe lesbian sexual acts. One monologue recounts a group masturba­tion. with the aid of hand mirrors, in a workshop run by "a woman who believes in vaginas." The decisive moment 

Charles Rice 
Right or Wrong? 

came when a participant thought, "I didn't have to find it. I had to be it. Be it. Be my clitoris. My vagina, my vagina, me." This moronic equation of a woman with her body part facilitates the violence the "Monologues" claim to oppose. 
Jenkins would "suppress speech" only ifit were "overt and insistent in its contempt for the values and sensibilities of this University, or of any of the diverse groups that form part of our community." Those, including Bishop John M. D'Arcy, who rightly see "The Vagina Monologues" as a "contempt for [their) values and sensibilities," do not count, in the Jenkins world, as one of those "diverse groups." Bishops, incidentally, "should be seen not as external agent'i but as participants in the life of the Catholic university" (Ex Corde Ecclesiae, Application, III). 
Jenkins' Jan. 23 address said, of an anti-Semitic play, "I do not believe that such a performance could be permitted at Notre Dame." He got that right: "Its anti-Semitic ele­ments are clearly and outrageously opposed to the values of a Catholic university." But what about "The Vagina Monologues" and the Queer Film Festival? The Jenkins Statement says that "[The Monologues') portrayals of sexu­ality [are] in opposition to Catholic teaching.~· So they should be banned, right? Guess again: 
"It is essential," said Jenkins, "that we hear a full range of views....but ... we must ... bring these ... views into dialogue with the Catholic ... tradition. This demands balance ... and the inclusion of the Catholic perspective ... !Tihis year's ["Monologues"] was brought into dialogue ... through pan­els which ... taught me ... that the creative contextualization of a play like ["The Vagina Monologues"] can bring certain perspectives on important i'isues into a constructive and fruitful dialogue with the Catholic tradition." Translating the jargon, his bottom line is, "I see no reason to prohibit ("The Vagina Monologues"]." 
So Jenkins, correctly, would bar the anti-Semitic play, even with a panel. Such a play is a lie. But so are the "Monologues" and the Queer Film Festival. Jenkins would allow "The Vagina Monologues" ifit is followed by a panel including the Catholic "perspective" as a debatable alterna­tive. The Catholic university "guarantees academic freedom ... within the confines of the truth and the common good" (Ex Corde Ecclesiae, no. 12). That truth, a unity of faith and reason, includes the ennobling Catholic teaching on women and sexuality. It is objective and normative, not one of the "perspectives" that might be nonjudgmentally included in a panel at Michigan State. 
Why do the "Monologues" and the Queer Film Festival get an easy pass at Notre Dame? In our politically correct cul­ture, it is open season on Catholic sexual morality. That teaching can be advanced only as one "perspective" without any serious claim to objective validity. Jenkins, playing that game, confirms that political correctness is the operative official religion of Notre Dame. His statement patronized faculty and students with a self-centered concept of free­dom, divorced from any duty to objective truth. That con­cept corresponds to the "relativism" which, in Pope Benedict XVI's words, "recognizes nothing as absolute and ... leaves the I and its whims a'i the ultimate measure." 
Incidentally, Jenkins' encouragement of "Loyal Daughters," a proposed play of uncertain content, hi'i cre­ation of a diverse and predictably useless committee to dis­cuss things and his announcement of porous guidelines for events, all amount to a fig leaf to cover an accommodation to the relativist, homosexual culture. 
President Brian J. Shanley, O.P., got it right in banning "The Vagina Monologues" at Providence College. "A Catholic college" said Shanley, "cannot sanction the per­formance of works of art that are inimical to the teaching of the Church in an area as important as female sexuality and the dignity of women." Jenkins should have borrowed tl1e Shanley statement. 
The Closing Statement is well named. It closes the effec­tive phase of the Jenkins presidency. It involves no animosi­ty or di'irespect toward Jenkins to conclude, with regret, that he should resign or be removed. 
Prof Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. His col­umn appears every other Thursday. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Crisis in Uganda an affront to Catholicism 
What determines the Catholic character of Notre Dame? While recent campus debates are legitimate and important, I lear such confrontational discourse has distracted the Notre Dame community from other issues which constitute a much more potent affront to the tenets ofour faith in its contemporary context. Our late Holy Father, Pope John Paul II, wrote in his apostolic exhortation Ecdesia in Africa that the global Catholic community is caUed to engage in "an organic pastoral solidarity within the entire African territory." Unfortunately, we have patently failed to achieve such solidarity, and modern depravities of the most abhorrent nature occ\lr without notice or challenge from the majority ofAmerican Catholics. 
For the past 20 years, northern Uganda has been besieged by a campaign of brutality and violence executed by the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA), a rebel group intent upon overthrowing the Government of Uganda and expressing no political agenda aside from terror. The LRA's methodology is chilling: rebel leaders abduct children from their homes and force them to partake in the group's ruthless crusade of death and destruction, often­times against their own families and villages. Those who have managed to survive the deadly assaults languish in the squalid conditions of Internally Displaced People camps, where excess deaths due to disease and malnutrition claim the lives of 1,000 people per week (a death rate which is three times that of Iraq). Since the LRA's formation two decades ago, experts estimate that as many as 66,000 children have been abducted and enslaved as child soldiers. 
Plagued with an unremitting fear of abduction, tens of thousands of children-the "night commuters" of northern Uganda-take to the streets each night and walk incredible dis­tances to avoid the LRA. They sleep without shelter or protection, their bodies piled upon one another in public parks and doorways. Jan Egeland, the United Nations Under­Secretary General for Humanitarian Affairs, has referred to the situation in northern Uganda as "the world's worst neglected humanitarian crisis," and called for the interna­tiona! community's resolute action to end this "moral outrage." 
Yet the crisis persists. The world has shamefully turned its back on the suffering of those whom Jesus would assuredly consider "the poor in spirit." Given the conditions of northern Uganda, it is morally unjustifiable for any Christian to remain complacent while such degradations of humanity exist. This issue transcends partisan lines to offend every person of good will, and it is our duty as members of a Catholic institution to take responsibility for the lives of the people of northern Uganda. 
The iniquities occurring are unambiguous, as should be our unity in their opposition. With one voice, we should decry the horrors of the LRA and utilize our outrage to effect real change. We must appeal to local leaders to mobilize grassroots efforts to address the conflict in northern Uganda; we must petition the U.S. government to support peace processes and dedicate more resources to emergency aid in the region; we must entreat the United Nations Security Council to pass a resolution acknowledging and .attending to the crisis. Most impor­tantly, we must become informed and active participants in halting the atrocities of northern Uganda. On behalf of the Uganda Conflict Action Network, I implore the Notre Dame com­munity to make this matter a personal priority. You can begin by attending the Mock Trial of world leaders tonight at 6 p.m. at Fieldhouse Mall and visiting our website (ugandacan.org) for more information on becoming involved in this vital cause. 
·Notre Dame's true Catholic character can and should be demonstrated through a com­mitment to ending this crisis, for it is only when the anguished cries ofour Ugandan broth­ers and sisters are answered with loving compassion that we can stand in solidarity as the one human family Jesus intended. 
Nicole Steele Uganda-CAN April24 

'Jockular' is just a joke 
Recently "Jockular" has been at the receiving end of criticism from certain members of the community. I thought about this at length and decided this to be a debate between sponsorship and censorship. Then I thought about it again. It's just a dumb cartoon. Much to my chagrin, some people take stick ligures to be deep, insightful commentaries into the state of the Notre Dame community. I once saw Erik Powers at a party and Alec White checked his email in the computer next to me the other day. I don't really know them, but they don't look like they hate Saint Mary's. I would like to remind certain members of the community that it is okay to laugh every once in a while. "Jockular" is not :·deeply insulting and unacceptable," its just a damn comic strip. I commend the work of the artists and implore them to continue mak­ing fun of everything that is Notre Dame. Oh yeah, and Saint Mary's, too. 
Oliver Gamez 
sentor 
Sr. Edward's Hall April24 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
lsc~&Ii&ol That crazy Cruise 
Tom Cruise seams mn. I don't mean the scrnaming, lifn-11ashing before­my-nyns-typn of seared. I nwan scary in that uncomfortable, "oh-(;od­plnase-l•~ave-nw-alone" type of scarnd. If" I saw him, I wouldn't bn in awn of his tal­nnt, or his wealth, or his gaudy movin-star lif"nstyh~. I would litnrally lw f"right­nnnd. 
It's not that Cruisn isn't a good artor. l'vn m1joynd many or his !licks -some I would nvnn plan~ in my "Top 5" rnovin list {Jerry Maguire is one of my favorites). But latnly, Tom, you've gotten a little out there. 
It all seemed to start with that fate­f"ul Oprah show. We've all seen it or at least heard of it. Cruise, agp, 43, made liko a hopped-up live-yflar old ­jumping on the couch, grabbing Oprah and screaming, ''I'm in lovp,!" Some poople praised Cruise's outright disre­gard in self-dignity in claiming his love for Katie Holmes. To me, I found it just plain creepy. 
Cruise appeared to be completely out of his mind. Yeah, love will make you do erazy things. But not literally! Crazy things are thinking about some­one all tho time or going out of your way for someone like you haven't done before -not things that will make a strong caso for your eandidaey ror hospitalization. 
But even with all that, I eould deal with it. Cruise was overeome with joy at his newfound amour with his young (ago 27) significant other. But it didn't stop thorn. Cruise spent the nflxt few months spastically rambling about his life with llolmes and Scientology and soomingly whatover abstraet th(lught came to his mind. Cruise increasingly made less and less sense until his blathering monologues finally became too much to handle. 

Chris McGrady 
Assistant Scene Editor 
There was talk of his relationship with Holmes as a publicity stunt, that there was a contract signed between the two that included having a baby. Ifow much of that is truth is rflally unknown. but of course, therfl was f"uss between Cruise and the family of his now-fiancee. Everything was the absolute height of drama for the llollywood pair. And why not? Cruise's on-camera dramatics had been mak­ing him famous for years -why stop there? 
As fate would have it, Holmes bncame pregnant, and Cruise, in his typical fashion, freaked out. The spiri­tuality of the whole thing was over­whelming, and Cruise yelled, and hopped and thn~w his arms up in excitement. All the while shrinking me further and further into my unhappy, depressive stage of fright. 
Maybe I'm making a bigger deal of this than is necessary. But, I ean't help but look at Cruise in a completely dif­ferent light. He joked about eating the placenta of his child. Eating the pla­centa?! Maybe Val Kilmer was right in the fighter-pilot flick "Top Gun"­Cruise "is dangerous." Probably not dangerous in the literal sense -I don't think Cruise would hurt anyone. But Cruise is definitely at least dan­gerous to my sanity. How would it look if every time I saw Cruise on screen I instinetively cowered into the fetal position? Probably not very good, and this is a problem. 
Don't get me wrong-I wish Cruise and his fiancee and their newborn daughter Suri the best of luck, I really do. But this new version of Cruise­the rambling, yelling, eecentric Cruise -is just a little too much "Vanilla Sky" and not quitfl enough "Mission Impossible" for me. And as mueh as it pains me to do so, I guess it's just the time that I say goodbye to the Cruise that "had me at hello." 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris McGrady at erne­grad1@nd. edu 


Photo courtesy of timeinc.com While on Oprah Winfrey's daytime television show May 23, 2005, Tom Cruise creat­ed a spectacle In declaring his affection for Katie Holmes. 
Tuesday, April-25, 2006 

VIDEO GAME REVIEWS 
'Katamari' rolls int 
As the mass of the katamari grows, it is able to consume larger and larger objects. During the initial stages, attractive items to collect include thumbtacks, pencils and bananas. However, during later levels, peo­ple, cars, buildings, ocean liners and even the Eif'fel Tower are ready to be rolled up and await the King of' All Cosmos' island-creating Hoyal Puff. Think of' it as combining the exdtmnent of professional snowball rolling with the satisfaction of' competitive rubber band ball assembling. 
As opposed to earlier Katamari games where the sole goal was to turn a 10 cen­timetnr katamari into a 1 0-mnter katarnari, "Me and My Katamari"adds dillilrPnt vari­ables that nond to be attended to. Wlwn a small worker ant rnquests a swnnt-as-sugar island for its queen, thn pint-siznd prince is charg«ld with thn rnsponsibility of' cmating a candied katamari packed with enough sweets to give a dentist nightmares. Points arn awarded afterwards basPd on the wla­tive happiness or the animal requesting the personalized playhrround. 
Though the gameplay has not deviated too far from ilc; predecessors, the control schmne has dramatically. The inescapable problems programmers propitiatn when porting a plat­
former to the PlayStation Portable (]>SPJ is the handheld's unfortunate lack of dual ana­logue controls. Gaining a basic understanding of the controls takes a couple rounds whereas complete mastery of the kata­mari art takes a considerably longer time. 
The soundtrack offers little new material -simply a rehashed remix of tunes from previous katamari games. The 


By TREVOR GASS Scene Critic 
Namco keeps the ball rolling with its latest rfllease in the Katamari series -the outra­geously outlandish yet enjoyably eccentric "Me and My Katamari." Not only is the game a dashing display of the undflniable prowess the Japanese possess in the ways of propnr English grammar, but it is also a tnstament to their ability to create ridiculously wacky, dangerously addictive video gamfls. 
In a spring brnak blunder of preposterous proportions, the charismatic King of All Cosmos inadvertently creates a tsunami that washes out a number of nflarby animal inhabitnd islands. It is now up to thn young Prince to set things right by creating special­ized katamari islands to fit each animal's needs. 
Though the "Katamari" series has gained popularity since the release of "Katamari Damacy" for the PlayStation 2 ( PS2) in September of 2004, it is still quite a nichn game. For those unfamiliar, the premise is simple as rolling a snowball into a snowman. But instead of snow, the player picks up everything and anything in sight. 
'Streetwise' appeals 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Assistant Scene Editor 

There is a fine line between continuing a successful franchise and bleeding it dry. Capcom's "Hesident Evil" is an example of the former -it's a game-of-the-year expe­rience. 
But another of its recent releases, "Final Fight: Streetwise," is an example of thfl latter. 
The original "Final Fight" was released back in the height of the areade frenzy, where huddling in the dark with a bunch of guys around a glowing vertieal video game unit was the epitome of eool for teenagers. A plethora of sequels followed quickly, but a nearly deeade-long dry spell followed. Handom "Final Fights" lit up the arcade scene as well as Super Nintendo and Sega Saturn, but there hasn't been a new one in reeent memory, and for good reason. 
The "Final Fight" games fit firmly into the side-serolling fighting genre, much like "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles."The latest iteration features a three-dimensional facelift, creating a fully 360-degree brawl­ing environment. The controls are also updated, giving a eomplex collection of catastrophic combos under the player's control. 
The setting is still Metro City, the loca­tion of the original game. Most of the orig­inal stars play a role in "Streetwise," including the original trio of playable characters. The player assumes control of Kyle, the younger brother of the original lighter Cody. Kyle is an underground light­er, making ends meet by scrapping with other combatants. Cody has aged a bit since the first game and is unable to fight anymore. However, his competitive nature lives on, and he disappears early into the game into shady cireles. The rest of the game follows Kyle's search for his older sibling. 
It ison this quest that he runs into many fan favorites, including ex-mayor and muscle man Haggar and karate master Guy. Other favorites also pop up -some­times unexpectedly -but in ways that always delight fans of the series. Kyle can participate in pit fights throughout the 
story to earn money, and many of Capcom 's eoolest eameos appear during the lights. 
For hardcore fans of the original, there are two additional modes included in addi­tion to the story mode. A multi-player arcade mode -featuring multiple playable characters in addition to Kyle ­and the original "Final Fight"can also bn unlocked. 
However, for everything the game does 
correctly, there is something done poorly. One of the major omissions is the lack of a multi-player mode during the story mode. Included in the draws of the original was the ability to face tho gangs of Metro City with a friend, which is sorely missing from this sequel. 
The brutal nature of the fights is also dampened by a finicky camera -fnnding ofT hordes of' drugged •mmnies is made morn difficult by having 


__j 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, April25, 2006 
page 13 

PSP gaming scene 
Photo courtesy of ign.com 

The Prince rolls the sticky katamari over a small town in the PSP exclusive "Me and My Katamari." This innovative game features a strong, quirky sense of humor. 
pleasantly quirky melodies are interesting where this latest katamari hurts. Layouts are but nothing spectacular. repeated multiple times throughout the 
Graphically, "Me and My Katamari" is game, offering only minor changes depend­mueh like its PS2 counterparts. Objects and ent upon current gameplay progress. This environments arc intentionally blocky and setback can be combated by the fact that up unrefined. Even so, the PSP lacks proficient to four friends can connect ad-hoc and race processing power to render all the objects on to grace by rolling the largest katamari. the screen. requiring periodic loading pauses Though lacking in some categories, during maps. Katamari is a solid game for fans on-the-go. 
The replay for this game varies depending But at the fearsome price of $40 -double on the gamer. Hidden throughout the stages that of the first Katamari game -the wary are the prince's cousins (also playable char­should first experiment with their neighbor's acters) as well as a wardrobe of items that copy for the PS2. can be equipped to create a customized char­acter. However, level design is one area Contact Trevor Gass at tgass@nd.edu 
nly to Capcom fans 
Photo courtesy of ign.com 

The protagonist of "Final Fight: Streetwise,"Kyle, lands a left uppercut against the underground fighter Ghost. Numerous Capcom legends can be fought in the ring. 
the players sight blocked by a stationary wearing school outfits and carrying shrub. This can lead to some cheap hits by kitanas, and other ethnic stereotypes. This the opponents and even a death or two. can be a positive, however, as it continues 
Artificially adding length to the game is the spirit of the original. a silly, pointless side quest. While they do Fans of the original series may find this 
a little variety to the game, they are game a nice nostalgic novelty, but 

en repeated to the point of boredom. "Streetwise" won't convert any newcomers 
he final complaint is that the foes fit to the flock. 
ly the fa<;ade of standard video game 
There an~ the Italian mobsters Contact Mark Bemenderfer at 
ressed in fancy suits, the Japanese girls mbemende@nd.edu 
DVD REVIEW 

'Venom' solely for horror addicts 

is helping her from the car, the car 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
falls off a convenient bridge into a 
Assistant Scene Editor 

river, trapping him in it. To his sur­prise, the suitcase pops open, reveal­"Venom" is a hard film to review. Its ing a nest of snakes. Having been artistic merits fall flat, with a ludi­locked up for an indefinite amount of crous plot and unbelievable actors. time underground, the snakes are not However, that's really irrelevant. too pleased and attack the truck driv­
The film is a throwback to the glory er, poisoning him as the car sinks days of the slasher genre of horror below the water. films, movies that starred the iconic Unfortunately for the people within Jason Voorhees and Michael Myers. the film -but fortunately for the Those were the days where dialogue audience -the snakes represent the and plot was secondary to gallons of evil spirits found within people. The gore and excessive violence. The truck driver dies, but is brought back heroes were secondary to the villain by the plethora of spirits that now itself, who reside in his had to be 
body. These over-the-top 
in turn drive and com­
him to com­pletely evil. 
Venom 
mit murders On that cri­

and collect terion, 
bodies as "Venom" is a 
sacrifices to masterpiece. 
evil deities.

Director: Jim Gillespie 
The hand­They also

Writer: Brandon Boyce, John Platten, Flint Dille 
prints of 
slowly turn

Starring: Agnes Bruckner, Method Man, Bijou 
director Jim him reptilian

Phillips, Jonathan Jackson
Gillespie ­

as the movie the mind 
progresses ­behind the creating a mid-90s slasher "I Know What You gradual, interesting process for the Did Last Summer"-are evident in special effects people. "Venom" as the gore is excessive, the The movie also manages to play plot is minimal, and the deaths are with many horror conventions. When frequent. the kids think they are safe within a 
The actual characters fit all the voodoo protected house, the killer stereotypes and are treated as mere whips one with a chain and yanks fodder for the killer within the movie. him from the safety of the house. There's the small town girl who wants Overall, the house is ineffectual at something more, the promiscuous girl keeping the killer out. as he finds an and plenty of others. There's nothing innovative -if not completely blunt that hasn't been seen before in a vari­-way of getting around the protec­ety of ways. tive wards. 
Even the killer is a conglomeration Like the Creeper, the killer also uses of a variety of movie serial killers. a giant truck as a secondary tool. It Take a splash of the Creeper from even manages to become its own "Jeepers Creepers," a hint of Michael character within the movie, as the Myers from "Halloween" and a heavy sight of it is a good omen of bad dose of Jason Voorhees from "Friday things. the 13th"-and you have the killer in "Venom" is a horror film directed at "Venom." horror fans. Other audiences will find 
The movie begins with an old little to like about the movie, but for woman digging up a suitcase in the its intended audience it's an enter­middle of a bayou. She takes the suit­taining ride. case with her, but on the way to her destination she is run off the road by Contact Mark Bemenderfer at a truck driver. While the truck driver mbemende@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April 25, 2006 
MLB 

Nomar's grand slam lifts Dodgers to victory 
Jones breaks out of slump with three-run home run as Cubs put up six in the eighth inning to beat the Marlins 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON Nomar 
Gareiaparra hit a go-ahead 
grand slam off Brad Lidge in 
thfl ninth inning for his lirst HBI 
with the Dodgers, sending Los 
Angeles to a 6-2 win over the 
llouston Astros on Monday 
night. 
Andy PP.ttitte held the Dodgers hitless until J.D. Drew homered with one out in the seventh inning to tin the score at I. Lance Berkman's eighth­inning homer put Houston ahead again, but Lidge (0-1) 1:ouldn 't hold th1~ lead. 
After Kenny Lofton tripled with one out. the All-Star doscr walked Drew and JeiT Knnl. Gareiaparra then drove a 2-2 pitch to left-center for his sixth 1:arner slam and first since .June 22, 2004, with Boston against Minnnsota. 
Carciaparra was playing in only his second gamn since returning from a brief minor league rehab stint. lie missed the lirst 17 ganws or the season with a strained muscle in his rib cage. 
Mike Gallo replaced Lidge and gave up an HBI single to Dioner Navarro. 
l.idge had been 7 -l"or-7 on save opportunities this year. It was his lirst blown save since he gave up Albert Pujols' mam­moth home run in Game 5 of the NL Championship Series last October against St. Louis. Lidge also had two losses in the World Series against thn Chicago White Sox. 
l>anys Banz entered !"or thn Dodg11rs with two on in the bot­torn of the ninth and closed it out for his sixth save. lie got Brad Ausmus on a fly ball bPI"ore Adam Everett grounded into a game-ending double play. 
The Dodgers snapped the Astros' three-game winning streak. Ilouston had won sevnn of eight. 
Garciaparra's shot spoiled the strongest start of the season by Pettitte, who yielded just one hit in seven innings. lie struck out live and walked three. 
Berkman connected off win­ncr Takashi Saito {2-0J. 
Saito relieved starter Derek Lowe, who was almost as good as Pcttitte. Lowe gave up one run and four hits in seven innings. 
Ausmus had three of those 
CLASSIFIEDS 
hits, including an RBI double in the second. 
Philadelphia 6, Colorado 5 
Cory Lidle struck out 10 and Bobby Abreu drove in three runs to lead the Philadelphia Phillies to a win over the Colorado Rockies on Monday night. 
Chase Utley and Hyan Howard were instant hits in their new spots in Philadelphia manager Charlie Manuel's lat­est batting order. Manuel moved Utley from the fourth or lifth spots to second and batted lloward, their best power threat, fifth after stints in the six and seven holes. 
Lidle (2-2) was the biggest bnnclidary or the lineup swap, getting the most run support he had in four starts this season. lin made it stand up, falling one strikeout shy of matching his career high and scattering six hits before he was chased with a 6-3 lead and two• runners on and two outs in the seventh. 
Clint Harmes doubled on Hyan Franklin's first pitch to make it 6-4, then the lefty retired Matt Holliday on a grounder to work out of the jam. 
Arthur Hhodes allowed a run in a shaky eighth, before Tom Gordon pitched a scoreless ninth for his sixth save in six chances. 
The top of Philadelphia's order was particularly strong early against Colorado starter .Josh Fogg (2-1) with Jimmy Hollins, Utley and Bobby Abreu going 5-for-5 with five runs scored and three RBI in the first three innings to help the Phillies take a 5-2 lead. 
Utley had three hits and Howard finished 2-for-4 with two HBI. 
The Phillies have l"inally shown some spirit at home, winning two straight at Citizens Bank Park for the first time this season. They lost eight of their first 10 games at home. 
Cincinnati 4, Washington 2 
Elizardo Ramirez pitched effectively into the eighth inning for his first major league win and the Cincinnati Heds rode some early offense to a victory over the Washington Nationals on Monday night. 
Washington fell to 1-5 at home this season, and the 


announced crowd of 19,264 and the Reds tacked on another and Josh Johnson (1-2). was the smallest at 46,382-in the second. Javier Valentin Ex-Marlin Juan Pierre capaeity HFK Stadium since tripled past a diving Alfonso opened the inning with a dou­baseball returned to the capi­Soriano in left and scored on ble for Chicago's second hit and tal, eclipsing Sunday night's Lopez's single. Honny Cedeno worked Herges previous low of 21,569. Hernandez went seven for a walk. Johnson relieved 
The 23-year-old Ramirez (1-innings, allowing four runs and and loaded the bases by walk­
0) was called up from Triple-A eight hits. His EHA actually ing Todd Walker. Louisville to make his first dropped, from 7.11 to 6.68. Aramis Harnirez then hit a appearance for the Reds since Washington has lost eight of his chopper to third, but Marlins a spot start on .July 4, 2005. last 10 starts dating to Sept. 1, catcher Matt Treanor couldn't Throwing mostly in the high 2005. hold onto Miguel Cabrera's low 80s and low 90s, the right-han­throw as Pierre scored on the der allow11d two runs and six Chicago Cubs 6, Florida 3 lielder's choice to make it 3-1. hits, five singles, in seven-plus Jacque Jones hit a three-run Johnson then struck out innings. He walked one and homer to cap a six-run eighth Michael Barrett before Matt even got his lirst big league hit. inning and the Chicago Cubs Murton delivered a tying, two­
The Heds. who have won five rallied against Florida's bullpen run single. Jones, hitting just of six, did more damage against for a victory over the Marlins .200 entering the game and Hernandez {1-3) in the opening on Monday night. booed earlier after making an inning alone, taking a 3-0 lead Carlos Zambrano matched a out, followed with his three-run against the All-Star by stringing career high with 12 strikeouts shot to left, his third homer of together four hits, including but remained winless in five the season. doubles by Felipe Lopez and starts this season because David Aardsma (1-0) got the Edwin Encarnacion. They were Chicago couldn't muster any win with a scoreless eighth. helped by an error on right offense until he was out of the Hyan Dempster closed for his fielder Jose Guillen, who had game. lifth save. trouble picking up the ball Trailing 3-0 after getting just Florida took a 3-0 lead on when Lopez's hit caromed off a one hit off lefty Jason Vargas in Cabrera's two-run homer in the wall. the first 6 1-3 innings, the Cubs first off Zambrano. Josh 
Hernandez has allowed 12 broke through in the eighth Willingham had an RBI double first-inning runs in five starts, against relievers Matt Herges in the third. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
...  FoR RENT  4 BR.1.5 BA, fenced back yard, <2 mi. to ND. 428 Preston. $795/mo. 269-663-2299.  TICKETS  97 Honda wagon, EX Accord. 105,000 miles. 1-owner,red,asking $4800. Car on campus. 269-445­ Paid Summer Internship. Kymanox,LLC is seeking 1-2 stu­dents with energy, talent & a desire  Now accepting resumes for ND Coca-Cola Campus Rep Internship. Freshmen & Sophs email resumes  
1437 or 631-5962.  to leam about the Biopharma indus­ to Jwilson2@nd.edu  
HISTORIC HOME-CHAPIN PK.  Room available anytime but 1st  O.A.R. tix first 3 rows.  try. Engineer/technical majors pre­ 
2800 s/l+base.LR w/lp.4 bdrms,study + finished 3rd fl. Full appliances+ WID, 3 porches. 413  renter gets 1st month free. $350/mo. Beautiful & very clean home. Close to ND. Parking avail­ Call272-7233. TOP$$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX.  WANTED  !erred. Highland Park,IL. Go to http://www.kymanox.com/intem for more info. Mr. Perry will be on cam- PERSONAL  
W. NAVARRE/$1250+util. 574­ able.  574-232-0964.  Highly motivated, ethical/socially  pus 27-28APR06 for possible inter- UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
2322167 or 574-2613184  Call Bill574-246-0872 or  responsible, entrepreneurial, go- views.  not go it alone. If you or someone  
www.xog.com/property/413WestNa  cell574-386-7272.  I WOULD LIKE TO BUY YOUR  getters. with desires to make a  you love needs confidential support  
varre.html  FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. PLEASE  meaningful impact on transforming  SUMMER WORK $15.50 base- or assistance, please call Sr. M.L.  
Large 2br apt. near ND. Starting at  CALL 277-1659.  the international business world  appt. FT/PT schedules,customer  Gude, CSC at631-7819. For more  
Office Space For Lease 1733 SF at  $595. Call277-9372.  while making a large amount of  sales/service,no experience neces­ information, see our bi-weekly ad in  
$1000 Per Month NNN. Walking Distance to ND. Contact Grubb &  Retail/Office Space For Lease 1BOO  FoR SALE  $$$$. I am an alum based in Jackson Hole and am looking for  sary, all ages 17 & older, conditions apply. Call Now,  THE OBSERVER.  
Ellis/Cressy & Everett. Tony Davey 574-271-4060.  SF at $10 PSF NNN on SR 23 east of Ironwood, Near ND. Contact  Do not rent or live in a dorm. Come  students for part time, full time, or summer employment to work for  Start After Finals! South Bend/Elkhart 574-273-3835  HAPPY BIRTHDAY Patrick Sweeney  
Grubb & Ellis/Cressy & Everett,  see 429 Tonti, 1/2 mile from ND  commission. Can work from home.  Indianapolis 317-253-2734  You make my life complete.  
Large house for rent. 18285 Dunn  Noah Davey 574-271-4060  Campus! Make your dream of  For more information Visit our web- Fort Wayne 260-492-9159  
Rd. Walk to class @ ND. 4 huge  homeownership a reality. 1232 sq  site at:  Bloomington 812-330-11 04  From across the room  
bedrooms, 3 full baths, Huge  4 bdrm,2.5 baths house. Call Judy  It, 3+car garage. Call Donna @993­ www.effectiveexecutivecoaching.co  Evansville 812-477-2702  your gaze tums towards mine  
fenced yard. Call317-431-9508  574-298-6217.  5060.  m  Lafayette 765-449-41 00  even your eyes smile -CAB  

Tuesday, April25, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Artest suspended for Game 2 against Spurs 
Sacramento feels the forward was hurt by his past reputation after being penalized for elbowing Manu Ginobili's head 
Associated Press in a different way." 
The one-game suspension 

SAN ANTONIO-Ron Artest's caught both Artest's teammates reputation might have caught up and the Spurs completely by to him at a terrible time for the surprise, because neither club Sacramento Kings. thought the personal foul was 
The NBA suspended Artest on even worthy of postgame com-
Monday for Game  ment, much less a  
2 of the  Kings'  suspension nearly  
first-round play­ "With Ron's  48 hours after the  
off series against the San Antonio Spurs. Stu Jackson, the league's top disciplinarian,  questionable past, they're going to look for a way to get him.''  fact. Artest was at the AT&T Center for practice Monday, but the focal point of Sacramento's  
said  Artest's  midseason  turn­ 
elbow  to  Manu  Bonzi Wells  around won't be in  
Ginobili's head in  Kings' forward  uniform  Tuesday  
the series opener  night  when  the  
was  egregious  Kings play Game 2  

enough to warrant another sus­against the defending league pension for the man who missed champions. 73 games and the playoffs last "I talked to Stu Jackson, which season after one of the most was encouraging," Artest said in infamous brawls in sports histo­a brief, apologetic statement ry. after his usual post-practice 
But after their difficult playoff shooting workout. "There have task got exponentially harder, been a lot of things that have the Kings suggested Artest was happened in my career which punished simply for being Ron (were) unfair. I support my Artest, possibly the most notori­teammates, and hopefully they'll 
.ous player of his generation. win the game, and I'll be back 
"You know with Ron's ques­Friday (for Game 3)." tionable past, they're going to The league cited Artcst for his look for a way to get him," said foul on Ginobili in the third Bonzi Wells, who will get many quarter of the Spurs' 122-88 vic­of Artest's defensive assign­tory. Ginobili caught Artest's ments. "Whether it's minor or elbow in his jaw while attempt­major, they're going to look at it ing to run through the lane, and the Argentine star fell to the a great player, but we don't have ground as Artest got a personal much to do with it," Ginobili foul. said. "It didn't hurt me. I said it 
Though Spurs coach Gregg after the game. But the league Popovich jumped off the bench (watches) everything we do." to argue for a flagrant foul, Artest was injured on the Ginobili got right back up, and game's opening possession when the game continued. Afterward, Ginobili inadvertently elbowed Ginobili said he wasn't injured him hard in the face while driv­on the play and didn't consider it ing to the hoop. Artest's feet flew particularly serious, while out from under him, and he Popovich said he had no prob­stayed down for several lem with Artest's aggressive moments before jogging around style of play. the court in pain from a cut that 
"I didn't even see the play, but required three stitches to close. it couldn't have been that bad," Ginobili alluded to the Kings' said Mike Bibby, who declared theory that Artest was being himself "amazed" by the punished partly for his history of league's decision. misbehavior and 
''There was no hard-nosed play, flagrant foul or which also included 
"There was no
technical foul on aggressive shots to
flagrant foul or
the play. They Tim Duncan and look at things dif­technical foul on Tony Parker in ferently for cer­Game 1.
the play." 

tain people, you Popovich would­could say." n't speculate on 
Popovich said Mike Bibby such ideas, instead the Spurs didn't Kings' guard finding a way to even contact the worry about how NBA about the the absence of the play, something many teams _ Kings' emotional leader and including the Kings _ will do for defensive star actually could any questionable play, particu­hurt the Spurs. larly in the playoffs. "Sometimes it can be your 
Ginobili was shocked when he worst nightmare when a good heard about the suspension player is out on another team, after practice at the Spurs' sub­because everybody else can pick urban training complex. up their games," Popovich said. 
"For us it's good, because he's "We're not going to change a whole lot. I'm more concerned about the mental part of the deal for us." 
Artest mostly guarded Ginobili in Game 1 and scored 16 points on 7 -of-21 shooting. The Spurs routed Sacramento with a 41­point second quarter, taking a quick 30-point lead and turning the entire second half into garbage time. 
Kevin Martin will move into the Kings' starting lineup at guard, with Wells moving to small forward. Martin probably will get the unpleasant task of guarding Parker, who burned the Kings for 25 points in three 
,

quarters. 
Artest's defense made little difference while the Spurs scored 73 points in the first half of Game 1. making 68 percent of their shots and cruising to a 34­point lead. And perhaps his absence will inspire the passion that was missing in his team­mates while San Antonio won Game 1 _ or perhaps the Kings are headed for an 0-2 deficit heading home. 
"I think the Spurs are going to play the same no matter who's out there," Kings coach Rick Adelman said. "When I looked at the tape, I thought it's possible they'll send a message and (upgrade) it to a flagrant foul, but I had no idea they would suspend him." · 
• 

Attention Graduating Seniors!! 
Notre Datne' s Office of Undergraduate Adtnissions anticipates hiring Admissions Counselors this spring! 
As part ofthe Undergraduate Admissions staff, the counselor is expected to make an important contribution to the recruitment and selection ofthe first-year class by managing relations with the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel, communication within the geographic area, assessment and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual information sessions on campus. Among our candidates, we will seek a Latino Recruitment Coordinator. Fluency in Spanish wil1 be strongly preferred. Additional responsibilities wi11 be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and strong familiarity with all aspects ofstudent life at Notre Dame. 
Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational ski11s, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the willingness to work long hours, including many evenings and Saturday mon1ings. 
Preferred start date is July 1, 2006. 
Please complete the Human Resources on-line application to be considered: Requisition #020060193 
... 
-

...---------------------------------­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 25, 2006 
CLUB SPORTS 

Water polo clinches national bid at home match 
Men's rowing cleans up at Indianapolis Invitational, takes home two bronzes and a gold in petite division 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame hosted the MCWPA championships this weekend at the Holfs Aquatics Center. A second-place finish seeu red a bid to the national championships. to be held at Northwestern in two wAeks. 
The Irish opened play with a 16-2 victory ovPr Washington before defeating Eastern Michigan 11-7. Almost every player on the squad scor11d in tlw opener, and seven players scored in the Eastnrn Michigan ganw. Irish fresh­man Kelly Horner led the attack with three goals, while

.. 
Katie Laneos and Bridget O'Neill each found the net twice. 

Sunday morning, thn Irish squared ofT against Grand Valley, with the trip to nation­als on the line. Lancos led the scoring with a hat triek, fol­lowed by O'Neill and Horner eaeh registering two goals. Kristy Bohling and MC Cimino eaeh seored a goal to secure thn IJ-4 vietory. The Irish fell <J-5 to Miami in the gold modal game, with Bohling, O'Neill and Horner accounting for all of the Irish scoring. 
Men's Rowing 
Notre Dame returned to Indianapolis' Eagle Creek 
... 
Heservoir Saturday to com­pete in the Indianapolis Invitational. The morning rac­ing featured two Irish eight­man crews racing in qualify­ing heats, and two more rac­ing in grand finals. In the afternoon, all four of the Notre Dame eight-man crews raced in a final event. 
The novice eight crew of coxswain Bryce Chung, stroke Karol Grzesiak, Tom Mazzacavallo, Andrew Matasic, Hay Schleck, Brendan McNutt, Matt Napierski, Taylor Donaldson and Hob Bowen finished fourth in their heat to qualify for the petite finals. In the afternoon racing, the novice boat took first in the Petite Final over Northwestern, Miami and St. Thomas, with Matt Degnan rowing for Karol Grzesiak. 
The next event for a Notre Dame crew was the second varsity eight grand final. Coxswain Julie Lambe's boat of stroke Scott Campbell, Michael Lucci. Evan Donoghue, William Blosky, Brandon Carroll, Andrew Baker, Nick Kluesner and Michael Giordano took the bronze medal behind Michigan and St. Joseph's. The Irish boat (6:45.6) held off Purdue (6:48.5) and Ohio 
State (6:51.8) to secure the medal. In the afternoon com­pilation Grand Final, which included the top three finish­ers from each the second var­sity eight and the lightweight eight races, and the top fin­isher from the third varsity eight race, the Irish boat fin­ished sixth with Michael Lutkus rowing for Brandon Carroll. 
The third varsity eight of coxswain Tara Morin, stroke Matt Degnan, Tomas Castillo, Michael Lutkus, P.J. McAward, Dan Murphy, Johann deSousa, Craig Wiborg and Jordan Frankel also claimed a bronze medal in 7:15.7, just edging out Ohio State (7:17.2). Radhika Deva coxed the boat to sixth in the afternoon compilation Petite Final, with Carroll rowing for Lutkus. 
The last races of the morn­ing were the first varsity qualifying heats. Because Joe Blakely was out with a knee injury, the first eight had to depend on the yeoman-like effort of Karol Grzesiak, who accommodated the necessary lineup adjustments by rowing in two events. In the first of three heats, the Notre Dame boat of coxswain Gigi Gutierrez, stroke Dan Pearson, Nick Mathew, Jake Teitgen, Grzesiak, Teddy Hawks, Steve Maher, Kane Pithey and Nicky Catella qual­ified for the grand finals by finishing second to Michigan in their heat, outpacing three other boats. The varsity eight finished seventh in the after­noon grand final. 

Cycling 
Eight members of the Notro Dame cycling club competed at the regional championships hosted by Illinois this week­end. The event consisted of a nine-mile team time trial and 
a  criterium  on  Saturday,  as  
well  as  a  road  race  on  
Sunday.  

Mike Lavery, Tim Campbell, Matt Prygoski and Geoff Gisler raced as the Four-man team in the B division, finishing in third place. 
The criterium was hotly contested with NCAA points at stake, and numerous crashes marred the race. Andy Steves took points in two prime sprints and rode to a fifth place finish. Prygoski, Gisler, Lavery, and Campbell finished No. 13, No. 15, No. 19 and No. 32 respectively in the 52-man field. Freshman Ben Johnson raced in the D division, win­ning a prime sprint on his way to a seventh-place finish. 
Sunday's road race featured several steep hills and a stream crossing. Prygoski fin­ished third to pace the Irish contingent. 
Sailing 
Notre Dame hosted the MCSA women's qualiliers this weekend at Diamond Lake. The Irish linished fourth over­all in the nine-team field. Michigan and Wisconsin cap­tured first and second to qual­ify for nationals. Minnesota took third, followed by Notre Dame. Northwestern, St. Thomas, Michigan State, Iowa and Ohio State completed the field in that order. 
Jaci Chase and Katherine Hoodecheck finished third in the A division for the Irish, while teammates Tricia lluges and Amy Beeker were fourth in the B division's nine races. 


• 
Summer Service Learning Program 
8 weeks of service-learning in cities in the U.S. Three-credit theology course (S/U) 
$2300 scholarship, additional $1000 AmeriCorps grant is possible 
Sponsored by ND Alumni Clubs and the Andrews Scholarship Fund Housing on site, with Alumni families or at your home Some of the sites that are available are: 
Albuquerque, NM -Dismas House, male student needed Aurora, IL (suburban Chicago)-Hesed House, two students Boston, MA-My Brothers Keeper, car required -Chicago, IL -Port Ministries, male student needed Detroit, Ml-Gleaners Food Bank Dubuque, IA -Camp Albrecht Acres Edmonton, Canada-St. Andrew's Center Elizabeth, NJ -St. Joseph Social Service, for a local student Fort Lauderdale, FL-Covenant House, female student with a car Jackson, MI-St. Louis Center, male student needed Nashville, TN-Oasis Center, car required Rockford, IL -Maya House, female student with a car Sacramento, CA-Friendship Park, car required Sioux Falls, SD-St. Francis House/Cheyenne River Youth Project Starved Rock, IL -Ottawa Friendship House Traverse City, MI-Fr. Fred Foundation and Health Clinic, car required Ventura County, CA-El Centrito de la Colonia, Spanish-speaking student with a car Applications and the site directory are available at http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu/academic/summer/SSP.shtml 
Tuesday, April25, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
Streak 
continued from page 24 
''I'm hoping that it's going to be a great crowd just like we had this weekend," Notre Dame coach Paul Mainieri .said. "Obviously, playing on national TV is a great opportunity, and I think everybody's excited." 
The contest comes a day after Notre Dame jumped eight spots to No. 8 in College Baseball Newspaper's top-30 and six spots to No. 12 in Baseball America's poll. The team bene­fited as 22 of the top-25 teams lost at least one game last week. with 18 losing to lower­ranked squads. 
"You'd much rather be recog­nized by the pollsters and the people in the community than not," Mainieri said. "The thing we have to guard against is liv­ing in the past." 
Notre Dame first baseman Craig Cooper earned Louisville Slugger national player of the week honors Monday after bat­ting over .500 in the team's pre­vious five games. Cooper fur­thered his now-22-game hit streak, batting .526 (10-for-19) with 13 RBis, four homers and nine runs. He was 8-for-11 with three homers and nine RBis in Notre Dame's weekend sweep of Rutgers (17-18-1, 7-8 Big East). 
Mainieri will send sophomore left-bander Wade Korpi to the mound against Purdue. 


Korpi is 4-1 with a 1.80 ERA -No. 2 in the Big East -in seven starts. He has held oppo­nents to a .208 batting average while striking out 58 and allow­ing 33 hits in 45 innings. 
Purdue did not name its start­in-g pitcher Monday. Boilermakers sophomore Allan Donato started the team's last mid-week contest, a 9-8 victory over Illinois State April 12. Donato did not earn a decision in the game. He allowed four runs and six hits in four innings. 
"Whoever it is, we'll get a lit­tle preparation for them and we'll get ready to go," Mainieri said. "My guess is that they're probably going to split up the game with a number of pitch­ers, but I don't know that for a fact." 
Boilermakers infielder Mitch Hilligoss leads the Purdue offense from the top of the line­up. A third-team All-American in 2005, Hilligoss enters the contest with a .407 batting average, five homers and 28 RBI. 
"Purdue has a really good team," Mainieri said. "We're expecting a real dog fight .... We're going to have to be at the top of our game to be able to beat them." 
Purdue first baseman Eric Wolfe hits third and enters bat­ting .386 with four homers and 33 RBI. 
Notre Dame has won the pre­vious two matchups in the series, including last year's 9-7 extra-inning victory at Coveleski Stadium in downtown South Bend. 
The Boilermakers dropped two of three games from Michigan in West Lafayette, 


Ind., this weekend but rebound­ed with a 10-5 victory Sunday. 
Notre Dame leads the all-time series 75-38-3. 
Despite the team's 22-game winning streak, Mainieri is not fully satisfied with what the Irish have done. 
"We still have a long way to go, and we still haven't accom­plished any of our goals yet," he said. "We haven't won a regu­lar-season title -we haven't 
.­
achieved an NCAA tournament bid." 
Notre Dame takes on Bowling Green Wednesday at Frank Eck Stadium and then flies to Storrs, Conn., for a three-game week­end series with the Connecticut Huskies, who currently own second place in the Big East with a 13-3 conference record. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

Because 1 in 4 of your female friends will have been raped by the time they graduate from Notre Dame . 
*United States Department of Justice 
Because it is never their fault 
We are women, we are men; together we fight, to 
TAKE BACK THE NIGHT 
A MARCH AGAINST SEXUAL VIOLENCE 
Because we should spend our lives thriving, not just surviving. 
THIS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26 
Meet at the Grotto at 7:15pm. March with us to Holy Cross, Saint Mary's and back to the Library Reflecting Pool for a Candlelight Vigil and Survivor's Speak-Out. 
FREET-SHIRTS FOR FIRST 200 PARTICPANTS! 
Join us for an experience you will never forget. 
Sponsored by Student Government, Feminist Voice, Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination, Men Against Violence, the Gender Relations Center, the Program in 
Gender Studies, Saint Mary's Women's Resource Center, Saint Mary's Feminists United, and A Life Uncommon. 
--~----­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 25, 2006 
Finale 
continued from page 24 
the second game Saturday, but moved to right field to give her arm a rest. Sullivan said the team hopes the rest will allow Amram to return to full power. 
While the Belles' sched­uled matches against Goshen have been can­celled in the past two years, Goshen played Kalamazoo on Saturday and lost both games 6-5 and2-1. 
The Maple Leafs are in a 21-game losing streak and have struggled offensively. They posted only three hits in their 9-0 and 3-0 losses against their rivals, the University of St. Francis, on April 15. 
Goshen will look to rely on sophomore pitcher Erin Layman. who recorded a
-. 
single against St. Francis and went one for three from the plate. 
But Saint Mary's hopes to shut down Goshen early. If the Belles can get an early lead, Sullivan said, she believes they will hold it. 
The Belles head into their match against Goshen with the MIAA tournament only 10 days away. 
Sullivan said the team wants to finish the snason off strong and look toward the postseason and the possibilties there. 
"We want to secure our spot in the conference tournament," Sullivan said. 
Saint Mary's plays Goshen at 3:30 p.m. today at home. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
Victory 
continued from page 24 
The Belles were led by a pair of seniors, as Megan Mattia shot rounds of 78 and 82 to finish with a team-best 160, while Kirsten Fantom finished with team second-best 175 after shooting rounds of 87 and 88. Mattia's 160 was good for second place in the tournament, finishing behind Franklin's Katie Tewell. who shot a compos­ite 152 behind rounds of 80 and 72. 

Despite Tewell's perform­the Belles' scoring five, fin­ance, Franklin finished ishing with total scores of with a team score of 721, 182 and 188, respectively. 
landing the team in a dis­tant third. 
O'Brien fin­ished the week­end with the median Saint Mary's score, shooting back­to-hack 88s to finish with 176. Senior Nicole Bellino, who shot a pair of 91s, and fresh­

"1 think all of us were pretty
'7 think all ofus 
consistent this were pretty weekend," O'Brien said.
consistent this 
The Belles
weekend.... We 
will now have 
went there, got our to wait and see whether their
job done." 
performance over the course Katie O'Brien of the season 
Belles sophomore will earn them a bid to the NCAA Div. III 
man Alex Sei, who shot a Championships, which will 94 both days, rounded out be held in Howey-in-the-
Hills, Fla. on May 9-12. 
"Hopefully the hard work we put in pays off," O'Brien said. "We all left the course feeling pretty good about ourselves." 
After this weekend's vic­tory, the Belles have at least somewhat improved their chances for selection. 
"It's always important to come out on top -that will look real good to the NCAA committee," O'Brien said. "We went there. got our job done and took the tourna­ment." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

Arts arrl I£t:ters Rnm m 


ThursdayI April 27 I fran 7-9 P.M. in 119 O'Shaughnessy 
A :ranel of three current r\btre Dame students will address those factors and people who influenced them to enter Ph.D. programs next year. A Notre Dame alum, now a 4th-year graduate student at Michigan State University, will offer her ~tive on ar:plying to and succeeding in graduate schcx:>l. 
Are vou asophomore Accounting Major looking for great pav and atremendous business experienceII ... Or asophomore or junior looking to use vour Web design experience to build aresume;~ 
If so, Get a Job at The Observer! 
The Observer is now accepting applications tor Controller and Web Administrator. 
If you're interested or have questions, please contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
Tuesday, April25, 2006 
THE BEST OF THE REST 
Bookstore Basketball XXXV's Final32 
+No. 1 U Got a Bad Draw vs. You Surely Received an Unfortunate Draw +No. 2Jack's Shorts vs. No. 98 
+ 
No. 3 The Caged Badgers vs. No. 30 Two of us are dating 

+ 
No. 4 Club Fever vs. Remedies for Fraud +No. 5 Clover Ridge Apartments vs. 5 Hot Girls Who Will Probably Lose in the First Round But Are Hoping To Get Lucky 

+ 
No. 6 What Would Jeremy Crouch Do vs. No. 271ndian Peaks +No. 7 Castle Point vs. Rule No. 76 +No. 8 Mean Girls vs. No. 25 The Nickelodeon Moon Shoes +No. 9 Bad Boyz vs. No. 24 The League of Shadows +No. 10 Hannah's Storm vs. No. 23 Huggie's Place +No. 11 KPMG vs. They all said ... jabroni + No.12The Saltines vs. No. 21 Linebacker Lounge +No. 13 Rocco's Pizza vs. No. 20 Sparkle Motion 

+ 
So Money vs. No. 19 We're Ron Burgundy? 

+ 
No. 16 Jay Morris vs. No. 17 Finish Line + No.18 Bookmakers vs. The Sharpshooters II 


Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
five points, most of them acro­batic lay-ups through multiple defenders. 
Irish Hockey tried to use its size advantage as much as pos­sible, muscling its way to close lay-ups. Freshman Christian Hanson, a center for the Irish during the winter, led all scor­ers in the game with eight buckets. 
"I was just trying to look good out there," Hanson said. "We had a couple of chances to get back in the game but we just didn't make the baskets when we needed to." 
After falling behind early, Irish Hockey mounted a come­back to pull within one point on three different occasions, but Rule No. 76 managed to hold them off each time. 
Wes O'Neill and Tony Gill also added to the offense for Irish Hockey, scoring three and seven points, respectively. 
The main problem for the team was getting into early foul trouble. 76's Danny Nesbon took the brunt of the fouls and was one-for-two on foul shot attempts. He also scored four other points down low. 
"I think we did pretty well out there -we're excited for the next round," Martin said. 
Huggie's Place 21 
Duffy's Girl 12 
Ty Martin dropped 10 points last night as Huggie's Place advanced to the round of 32 with a 21-12 win over Duffy's' Girl. 
Huggie's Place got off to a slow start as it struggled to find good shots against the quick 2-3 zone that Duffy's Girl had mastered. But with Martin leading the way the team came up with a 6-0 run to finish off the first half with an 11-8 lead. 
"We started off a little slow, but once we calmed down and started breaking down their zone we were fine," Martin said. 
Martin was helped by his brother, Beau-who had three points -and Ernest Berni, who played point guard and had five baskets of his own. 
Andrew Crow, an outside shooter, rounded out the scar­ing for Huggie's with three. 
Duffy's Girl cooled off after its quick start and struggled to keep the game close, plagued with turnovers throughout the second half. 
The team's biggest offensive contributors were Michael Duffy and Pete Vandeventer, with four points each. Duffy was able to use his size early on and consistently won posi­tion under the hoop for easy layups. Vandeventer, the team's outside threat, used his speed to find openings in the defense for his four baskets. 
Duffy's Girl members left before they were able to be reached for comment. 
Sparkle Motion 21 
Guards R Us 14 
Darius Walker made his first -and last -appearance in the 2006 Bookstore Basketball Tournament Monday, as his Guards R Us fell to Sparkle Motion, 21-14. 
Sparkle Motion members knew they were in for a tough game when they saw Walker walk out on the court. 
"We knew they were going to be athletic, so we just had to play fundamental basketball out there," Sparkle Motion's Chris Merino said. Merino's prediction came true as 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Sparkle used a team-oriented game to open up a quick 8-3 lead early in the first half. Sparkle was able to move the ball very well on offense, while restricting the offense of Guards R Us. All five of the Guards players struggled from the field, missing early and often both from inside and out. 
After another quick run by Sparkle fueled by fast-break layups, Guards was able to heat up from the field. Riding the hot hand of their two guards, Guards was able to close the Sparkle lead to 10-8 before Sparkle made a free throw to send the game to half­time 11-8. 
In the second half, Walker was able to find his shot, hit­ting two quick long-range shots. 
The story of the second half, however, was the tough play and hard fouls by both teams. With each team trying to establish dominance inside, neither avoided contact, and a number of players found them­selves on the ground. In such a physical game, both teams voiced their fair share of com­plaints to the refs. Walker was particularly frustrated follow­ing the game. 
Fittingly, after such a hard­fought game, the game was decided on a free throw. 
Leading 20-14, Merino was fouled hard on a breakaway lay-up. His foul shot hit noth­ing but net, giving Sparkle Motion the victory. 
Saltines 21 
Must Be 30! 14 
When the No. 12-seeded Saltines took on Must Be 30! Monday, it was a battle between youthfulness and experience. Unfortunately for Must Be 30!, youthfulness pre­vailed as the Saltines forced Must Be 30! into early retire­ment, 21-14. 
Down 5-7 midway through the first half, the Saltines were struggling to find their rhythm. "We came out a little slow. I think we were tired from yes­terday's game and it showed early on," Saltines forward Dan Ott said. 
From there, however, the Saltines went on a 6-1 run to close out the half. Using their superior height and athleti­cism, the Saltines were able to speed up the game and open it up with a series of fast breaks to open up the three-point advantage. 
At the start of the second half, both teams traded bas­kets. From there, however, Saltines again went on a 10-3 run to open up a 20-13 advan­tage. That 20th point came on one of the more exciting plays of the game as freshman Carl Andersen was on the receiving end of an alley-oop. While not the prettiest looking shot of the game, it was good enough for Andersen. 
"I just came off a screen and the ball was there," Andersen said. "I messed up the 'oop' 
. part of it, but it turned out alright." After a quick layup by Must Be 30!, the Saltines answered with a simple lay-up to seal the 21-14 victory. While Must Be 30! lost the game, Paul Minifee was proud of his team. "We are all very happy with our performance," he said. "We're not necessarily in the prime of our careers, so to have the tournament we had, that's something to be very proud of." 
Contact Dan Murphy at drnurphy6@nd.edu and Joe Quinn at jquinn6@nd.edu page 21 


DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer 

Duffy's Girl's Pete Vandeventer, left, drives against Ty Martin of Huggie's Place in their game Monday afternoon. Duffy's Girl fell 21-12 in the round of 64. 
The 2006 Dome yearbook 
Centennial edition 
Undergrad distribution: 
(No charge-Show ID) 
Tuesday, April 25 
10:30 a.m.-5 p.m. -LaFortune (Sorin Rm. Annex) 5-7:30p.m. --North Dining Hall (South porch) 
Wednesday, April 26 
10:30 a.m.-5 p.m. --LaFortune (Sorin Rm. Annex) 4:30-9:30 p.m. --South Dining Hall (Lobby) 
Thursday, April 27 
10:30 a.m.-5 p.m. --LaFortune (Sorin Rm. Annex) 
Public Sale ($29) 
Beginning April 25-LaFortune Info Desk Or online at https://marketplace.nd.edu/studentshop/ 
AA MINI WAREHOUSE 8: STORAGE 3 Convenient Locations for Your Storage Needs Call us TODAY/ 
5510 Shaugn St 816 E McKinley Ave 5213 N Grape Rd 271-1105 259-0335 272-4434 
$10 OFFAT MCKINLEY FOR FIRST MONTH,S RENT AND FREE LOCK with purchase of Unit 
valid with student ID expires 515106 

~----------------~------------·-------------------------------~-----------------------------­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 25, 2006 
CAREER PERfPECTIVEJ: HEAR FROM NOTRE DAME ALUMNI 
The Student Alumni Xelations Group (S;:v?._G) invites vou to participate in a career perspectives opportuni{Jf for Notre Dame Students. Current and former members ofthe Alumni Association's Board ofDirectors will be on campus to share their professional storv with a limited number ofstudents. The Career Perspectives 1'roqram will take place at McXenna }fall from 1:30-3:00 p.m. on Saturdav, April 29,2006. 
Xeqistration forms can be accessed at http://alumni.nd.edu/qroups/sarq.html and are due to S;:v?._G at 100 Eck Center, or bv e-mail to rhutchi2@nd.edu, no later than Tuesdav, April 25, 2006. Dress is casual. 
JATURDAV, APRIL 29TH FROM 1:30-3:00 PM IN THE MCKENNA HALL BA/EMENT 

Questions! Please call the .Alumni .Association at 631·6000. 

Valpo 
continued from page 24 
long time. In recent years, the games between Valparaiso and Notre Dame have been blowouts. Since the 2003 season the Irish have outscored Valparaiso 45-1 in five meetings. The one run came on a wild pitch in the third inning or the April 23, 2003 matchup. 
Along with their prolific offensive numbers, the Irish have held the Crusaders to four hits in the last six meet­ings and recorded at least one no-hitter each season sinee 2003. In 2004, pitcher Stnphanin Stenglein threw a perfeet game in a 9-0 rout. 
Senior pitcher Heather Booth is coming off of her own perfect game Sunday against Hutgers. She will get 
the start in today's game where she will look to con­tinue her dominance against the Crusaders. 
"Every day is a new day and I hope that she takes the same thought process into the Valpo game," Gumpf said. 
The key to her suceess will be shutting down the top two 
hitters in the lineup  - out­ 
fielders  Ann  Sievert  and  
Karen Korb. Sievert,  a  sen­ 

ior, hits leadoff and has an on-base percentage of .320. Korb bats second and has 13 steals in her rookie season. 
If Booth can keep the two speedsters off the base paths, she will minimize the potential damage from the middle of the order. By working her full arsenal of off-speed pitches, Booth could keep Sievert and Korb ofT balance. 
Gumpf said she wants to 
see the team get off to a good start offensively by staying patient and focused at the plate. Notre Dame will look to stay back on pitches to maintain offensive momentum. 
"We tend to get too aggres­sive and pop up a lot," Gumpf said. "I want to con­centrate on hitting line drives and hard ground balls." 
As the pressure begins to mount towards the end of the season, picking up the win this afternoon would be crucial to keeping momen­tum down the final stretch. 
"I think you always feel a little extra pressure at this time, but I hope that at this point they want that pres­sure," Gumpf said. "As the going gets tough we get even 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
ALLISON AMBFIOSEI 

Irish first baseman Linda Kohan makes a putout at first during a 6-0 win over Ball State April 11. 
FREE Notre Dame Batting Helmets giveaway courtesy of Marathon! 
FREE Fajitas from Between 'tile Baas (wllile supplies last) 
Tuesday, April25, 2006 
JOCKULAR 
The Observer+ TODAY ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS 


1-\1, I'M. Df.NN~ &AI"''f'l-\ LIN, PIZE.S IDE.NT oF 11-\E. SLI SWA~ ALuMNI ASSOC..IATioN.  
FROM "11-\E.. 5ue,wp..'\ P..\.UMNI AS':>OC..IAIION"  

WE.'RE. LOOJ:'.INC:l Foli!.. DoNATIONS To $?CINSO~ LE.C..."Tl.I~E.S Ac..l1-.o~S !1-IE NATION, L\~E. ''FoOt.. IN u AC:.TUAL Nl) ALUMNI INTO T\-\lt-1\(INb 'iOU1 "E. A 6F.ACUATE... ", ,t>Nt:> "SC.AMM INb A LJ_.I'\~ J'!,.ll'lb ~ 
page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

\ ffil]--ni ii;")n 'i:'J THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
~-! JJflJ~.Jri.h!J:.li.!J. by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
ARBSS 
t 
02005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rtghts Reserved. 
THILE 
j
I I r t J 
DEELEN 
WHAT c_oWBOYs

(IJ () 
00 ON THE:

www.jumble.com 
RANGE:. 

STIGAR j 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

rJ r (J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer: rI I X I JrI I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturday' I Jumbles: FENCE MILKY PONCHO IMBIBE s Answer: Where she ended up when the cucumber crop was harvested-IN A"PICKLE" ··:~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 Car dealer's chart?

1 Wool eater 39 Heath
5 Author/illustrator Silverstein 40 Jordan's capital 9 "Casablanca" 41 Charles Lamb's star, nom de plume affectionately 42 Big leaguer's 14 Square footage 
dream? 44 Person to give15 Andean territory your car keys to

16 "Ready_ ... " 
45 Like the "p" in 17 Culmination of a psychologytruck race? 

46 Golf's _ Cup19 Conductor Seiji 
48 "The Lord of the 20 1986 Tom Rings" critter Cruise flick 
50 Ventilate 21 Result of a 
51 Young coyote Navy inventory? 

54 Place for a 

23 Long-nosed poker game? 
flier, for short 59 Fly the coop24 Band with the 61 Out of one's 
1994 #1 album "Monster" 62 Prison guard? 
26 Gal of song 64 Blake of ragtime27 Recruit's denial 65 "The Court 
29 Glowing 
Jester" star 34 Out-and-out Danny 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

66 Nonsense 67 Derisive look 68 Breeding horse 69 Rogues 
DOWN 1 Sail supports 2 Chocolaty treats 3 Entice 4 Reagan's first 
secretary of state 5 Places for book titles 6 One hoping to fly the coop? 7 Geological periods a Humdingers 9 For sale illegally 10 Ricelike pasta 11 Pesky biter 1 2 The Hawkeyes of the Big Ten 13 List shortener 18 Commotion 22 W.W. I ace von Richthofen 25 Orange Bowl site 27 Chutzpah 28 Hearsay 30 Gloomy 31 Symphony venue 
32 Taylor boy on 'The Andy Griffith Show" 
33 "Take !" 
34 Ballpark . figures? 
35 Pop singer Amos 
36 Awl or axe 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

38 Country crooner 49 Rulers of the 56 Toothpaste Tucker roost holder 40 Houston 51 City where 
57 Ohio/Ontarioballplayer Galilee taught 
separator 43 Alphabetical, 52 Tip over 
58 Castle defense 
say 53 Employee 44 Poet's 
benefits 60 Business TV channelproduction 54 Mighty long time 
47 Lost some 55 Verb preceder, 63 School at avoirdupois usually Washington Sq. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS . 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TffiS DAY: Kelly Clarkson, 24; Jean-Paul Gaultier, 54; Barbra Streisand, 64; Shirley MacLaine, 72 
Happy Birthday: Don't let life's little frustrations hold you back. Strive for excellence even if you don't feel you are getting much in return this year. Working behind the scenes for a greater cause will eventually pay off. Seeing your situation in a different light will allow you the flexibility to make changes leading to greater freedom. Your numbers are 6, 13, 19, 22, 31,40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Money is in the picture and you should be able to invest in something you consider a worthwhile venture. Renovations or buying or selling real estate look positive. Good fortune is heading your way. *** TAURUS (April20-May 20): A blast from your past can be expected. Reconnect with people you used to know and you will discover some interesting things about yourself. Visit old familiar places and the memories you have will spark all sorts ofold feelings. Love is in a high cycle.**** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't expect others to understand what you are trying to do. You will be inclined to become upset about personal issues. Assess the situation before you make a comment that may work against you. Keep your personal and professional Jives separate. * * CANCER (June 21-July 22): There will be plenty going on in your life. Don't sit back waiting for people to come to you. The sooner you start the process ofgetting what you want, the easier your day will become. An opportunity to make some extra money is evident. ***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Invest in your surroundings. Real estate or other Jong­tenn investments will bring you added security. An unusual moneymaking opportunity will interest you. Find out all you can but prepare to move ahead quickly. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Not too many people will understand your motives but you will have everything worked out in your own mind. Stick to your game plan and you will accomplish exactly what you set out to do. Business and personal partnerships are favored. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take a unique approach to something you want to do professionally. Respond quickly to the reactions you get from others and you will make a lasting impression as someone who can take charge. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A fresh new look will help you unleash some of the ideas you've been keeping to yourself. Mix business with pleasure. You will be recognized for your talent if you aren't too shy or secretive to let others know what you can do. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Slow down and take time to think before you spend money or make changes that will affect others. You will face plenty of opposition today if you are pushy or demanding. You may know what you want but getting it will be another story.** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Focus on work, money and getting ahead. You will interest people who are looking for someone with your kind of talent so let your ideas be known. Romance is in a high Gycle. ••• • AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take a closer look at your future. Ifyou've been pondering over the past, you probably need a wakeup call. Set goals that will help you move forward. Change can be a good thing so let the past go. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't let your emotions get the better ofyou. Take care of yourself today. Money matters can be resolved if you set up a budget with a goal in mind. Contact someone from your past. ••• 
Birthday Baby: You are unique, sensitive and goal-oriented. You are eager to get involved in anything that is a little different. You are an explorer, an adventurer and a visionary. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
..-,

The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________ Address __________________________________________________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip____________ 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, April 25, 2006 
page 24 
... 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXV 
Dwindling draw 

Rule No. 76 advances to round of 32 teams 
By JOE QUINN and 
DAN MURPHY 
SportS Writers 
Making no nxeusns, Hule No. 76 lwld on to an early lead to dnf'nat Irish Hoekny 21-IX at McCiinn courts Monday. 
Huln No. 76 -which had thrne seornrs with more than l'ivn points -was led by Jay Doznl with sevnn. Doze! wnnt down hard in thn first half'. injuring his arm. but was able to ovnn:omn thn pain to score four more points in thn second hair. 
"Thny wern sonw pretty big boys out tlwrn and tlwy were bumping us around pretty good," tmunmate Tyler Martin said. 
Martin slaslwd his way to 
see BOOKSTORE/page 21 

DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer Left, U Got a Bad Draw's Chris DeVitt drives to the bas­ket. Right, Pete Vandeventer, center, of Duffy's Girl drilr bles between Ty and Beau Martin of Huggie's Place. 
ND SOFTBALL 
Team faces Crusaders in rivalry 
Irish have won 24 in a row against Valpo 
By DAN MURPHY Sporrs Wri tcr 
Notre Dame has beaten Valparaiso the previous 24 times -and the Irish will look to eontinue this impres­sive streak when they visit the Crusaders at 5 p.m. today. 
"I'm surn that Valpo knows !about thn streak! too and that will rnakn them want us even more," ·Notre Dame coach Deanna Gumpf' said. 
The Crusaders ( 1 X-25) arc having their best season in a 
see VALPO/page 22 

SMC GoLF 
Saint Mary's places first in Franklin tournament 
The Legends of Indiana nearest opponent, Olivet, again put together a strong of 693 topped the seven­
By ERIC RETTER 
Country Club in Franklin, which shot a 358 on the outing and shot a composite team field by nine strokes. Associate Sporrs Editor Ind. day. 349, the third-best team "We're excited that we got The Belles took control of "I think that we knew we score of the round. In part first," O'Brien said. "We 
Saint Mary's ended its the tournament from the needed to play well, and we because of the large cushion wanted to play well for the season on a high note beginning, finishing the went there and got the job Saint Mary's had going into seniors, because this may Monday, winning. the 2006 opening round Sunday with done," sophomore Katie Monday, the team's lead was be their last tournament." Franklin College Lady a total score of 344 -14 O'Brien said. never seriously challenged, Grizzly Spring Classic at strokes lower than their On Monday, the Belles and the Belles' final score see VICTORY/page 20 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles take on Goshen in doubleheader play 
Saint Mary's faces last non-MIAA opponent 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
The Bnllns head into thnir last non-eonfcrnnen gamn of the season today against 
r. c;oshen, hoping to rndeem thornselves af'ter a disap­pointing showing Saturday against Olivet. Tho Belles dropped both games on the road. 2-1 and 6-4. 
Belles hnad eoaeh Erin Sullivan said Saint Mary's 
will turn to powerhouses like MeKenna Corrigan, who gave the Belles their only run in the first game. 
"We want to seore early," Sullivan said. "And score ol'ten." 
Saint Mary's showed power from behind the plate Saturday, Sullivan said, but Olivet was able to shut the team down. 
Freshman right-hander Kristin Amram will work to oneo again be a force from the mound. Amram pitched the first three innings of 
see FINALE/page 20 
BASEBALL 

Irish swing for another W 
Victory would be team's 23rd straight 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
It's back under the lights for Notre Dame. 
The red-hot Irish (32-8, 15-1 Big East) put their pro­gram-record 22-game win­ning streak on the line tonight at 7:05 p.m. against Purdue (21-14, 8-8 Big Ten) at Frank Eck Stadium. ESPNU will broadcast the contest, marking the Boilermakers' first-ever nationally televised game. 
see STREAK/ page 19 


en 
WATER POLO 
NBA 
NBA 

NCAA FOOTBALL
NCAA LACROSSE 
MLB 
c.,) Irish women clinch 
Miami 115 

Alumni speak 
Bush addresses 
Phillies 6 
Artest su~ended 
z national berth 
for Game 
Chicago 108 

about scandal 
NCAA issues 
Rockies 5 

t: w 
=:5 
A No. 2 finish in the 
The temperamental 
Dwayne Wade's 21 

Several Duke alumni 
2006 Heisman Trophy 
Cory Lidle struck out

C» c:s 
NCWPA championships 
basketball player, 
points helped put the 

spent their reunion 
winner Reggie Bush 
10 as the Phi llies try to
cs: 
this weekend secured a 
recently traded to the 
Heat over the Bulls 2-0 

weekend questioning 
tried to refute claims of 
regain ground in the NL 
bid at Nationals. 
Kings, must sit out 
in the series. 

the decision to cancel 
NCAA violations 
East.

a.. !« 
against the Spurs. 

the lacrosse season. 
Monday.
en page 18 
page 17 
page 16 

page 15 
page 15 
page 14 





