
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Crimes, citations spark concern 
Students question off-campus incidents 
By EILEEN DUFFY Assistant News Editor 
Within just two weeks of returning to South Bend, one student has been assaulted in her Turtle Creek apartment, another robbed on Notre Dame Ave., a few burglarized, two arrested and at least 86 cited for underage drinking. 
The series of events has some students questioning the deci­sion to move off-campus, or even to pop outside the bubble of Notre Dame on the weekends. 
For most, money -like the prospect of forking it over to South Bend for an underage drinking citation -was the greatest concern. 
"I really don't think it's worth the risk," sophomore Miranda Moyer said. "For me. getting a ticket ... wouldn't be a good thing." 
see CITATIONS/page 4 
CLAP Inaintains demand for living wage 
Group to meet with StaffAdvisory Council 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Editor 
The Campus Labor Action Project (CLAP) emergP.d on campus last fall as a small but vocal group of students cam­paigning loudly for a "living wage" for workers, and despite losing several leaders to grad­uation, the group has no plans to back down from its demands. 
In the spring, CLAP members pushed for a $12.10 per hour salary in an 11-page report delivered to University President Father John Jenkins and other University officials. 
This year, they plan to con­tinue those efforts -more organized. and more targeted. 
"We're making a more con­certed effort [on anJ individual and group basis to go out and talk to workers," said CLAP member Nick Krafft, who is part of CLAP's organizing core. "We've stressed that before, but never made a concerted effort until now. 
"It's their campaign, ulti­mately, and not ours." 
To that end, Krafft and other CLAP members will meet with the Notre Dame Staff Advisory 
see CLAPIpage 6 

N DSMCOBSERVER.COM 
RecSports hosts2006 biathlon 
Participants swan1 a half mile, ran two 
By MEGAN WONS News Writer 
Eighty-three students braved the waters of St. Joe's lake and tested their endurance in Notre Dame's annual biathlon on Saturday, with the quickest com­petitor finishing the half-mile swim and two-mile run in just 18 minutes. 
Although there were different divisions in the race, including varsity and non-varsity, male and female, and individual and team, all competitors began the race together -waist-deep in the notoriously murky St. Joe waters. 
The first leg of the biathlon was a half-mile swim, which required competitors to swim out to a buoy, across to another buoy, and then back to the start­ing point on the shore. said Assistant Director of RecSports Bill Reagan. 
Swimmers who were racing as part of a team exited the lake and tagged their partners, who then began the two-mile running leg of the competition. 
Individual competitors made the transition from water to land as they hurriedly dried off their feet, slipped on socks and tennis shoes and took ofT running. The two-mile loop followed a figure eight course around St. Joe's and St. Mary's lakes. 
Heagan said there was no entry fee for the biathlon and that RecSports holds the biathlon annually "purely for the thrill and the fun of the event in itself.·· 
"It also promotes fitness and gets students thinking about how 
see BIATHLON/page 4 

Shappell still pushing for ordinance changes 
By EILEEN DUFFY and 
MADDIE HANNA 
News Writers 
The recent police bust at Turtle Creek apartments has re-illumi­nated the community relations debate, and student body presi­dent Lizzi Shappell has committed her administration to improving the often-strained relationship between Notre Dame students and their neighbors. 
Shappell's focus centers on South Bend's disorderly house ordinance, which \Vas amended in July of 2005. 
Previously, tenants were allowed three reported noise vio­lations before the city of South Bend could send them a notice to abate. Now, the ordinance allows the city to send a notice to abate after just one reported noise viola­tion. 
The city also sends the landlord 
see SHAPPELL/page 3 


Honors program receives $10 million donation 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
Beginning next fall, the Arts and Letters and Science Honors Program will become the Glynn Family Honors Program -the result of a $10 million donation from 1962 graduate John Glynn and his family. 
The donation, announced in July, will help pay for more research opportunities abroad, and students accepted into the program for the Fall 2007 semester will be ca]led Glynn scholars. 
"!The endowment] is going to be used primarily to obviously keep the number of students [admitted to the Honors Program each year] at 100 and is also to fund summer research opportunities at places like Oxford, Cambridge, and the Sorbonne," said Arts and Letters Honors Program Director C.F. Delaney. 
The Honors Program is designed "to provide a more intense academic experience for students who are inclined and capable of taking advan­tage of it," Delaney said. 
When it began in 1983, the program had 40 students and the number has been increas­ing since then, Delaney said. 
"At the moment, it's 50 
see HONORS/page 4 

PAMELA LOCK/The Observer Honors students study in O'Shaughnessy Hall. The Honors Program has made it possible for a significant amount of students to participate in abroad programs. 
page 2 The Obsenlt'r +PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 5, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Sopholllore slulllp 
It's official. 
For the class of 2009, the time to sit baek and relax is gone. We're big kids now -Toys-H-Us commercials aside-and we're no longer the lit­tle frosh we one<' were. Analise Lipari 
At this point. vve're supposed to know it all. Scene Writer How do you find the Stepan Center? Take a left at Flanner and head straight for that giant golf ball. Is it safe to jump into the lakes'? Not if you'd like to keep your molecular makeup intact. Will we beat USC this VPar'? Obviously, and by 50 points (knock on >vood). 
With our vast expertise of all things collegiate, the expectations are high. We have to step up and live up to what will be our best year vet. · To the rest of the world, however, sophomore year may not seem so big. In their eyes, we have, as Jane AustPn might say, "little but our charms to recommend us." Lowly freshmen last yPar. we have yet to prove ourselves. Even the word "sophomorie" tells us that our knowledge isn't so spiffy after all. 
It's true that life gets a little hard­er for us Niners this time around the Bend. Getting lost is officially inex­cusable, as is no(. knowing how to use your ID card in any and all of its faculties. Writing a paper with a nonexistent thesis will grant you. rather than the kind words and wel­come rewrite of yesteryear, an almighty F. And if you don't know \vhere Legends is at this point, even L a self~confessed hermit, will n~fuse to help you. 
Will Organic Chemistry or Intro to Lit Studies defeat us'? Will we be seduced by our now-inhen~nt nap­ping tendencies into skipping class for three days straight (as incredibly tern pting as that sounds)'? Or will we not? 
To quote "Legends of the Hidden Temple," all I have to say is that "the ehoice is yours, and yours alone." This year, like the one before it and those to come, is what we make it. Cheesy graduation­esque sentiments aside, we do know quite a bit more than we did this time last year. Using that wealth of information can only make us that much more prepared to deal with the college world. 
For example, we know not to get pudding at the dining hall, because it is the definition of all that is "sketehv." There will never be a time whEm it is not sketchy. Would a wide-eved freshman know that? Of course·not. Sophomores are also all the wiser when H comes to which freshman elasses are easy, and which classes leave vou with the desire to jump into a bottomless pit. Impressive, to be sure. 
So let's go, class of '09. We're here, we're ready, and we're pretty flipping sweet. 
It's official. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@n d. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a protessional publiction and strives tor the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will mal<e mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-'1541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU WANT TO LIVE OFF-CAMPUS? 




Noah Franske 
freshman Keenan 
"No, because Keenan is the best place to live -ever. " 

Lauren Bugos 
senior off-campus 
"Yes, because 1· love being able to see my friends at all hours r~/' the day and night." 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY a: 
L&J 
:c 
!;;: 
L&J 


i)~ 
..I 
<
(.) 

....0 HIGH 73 HIGH 60 HIGH 72 HIGH 78 LOW 63 LOW 58 LOW 58 LOW 53 


Jenny Heil 
.freshman 
J>W 
"No, it would be toofar away I couldn't walk to class." soup. 
IN BRIEF 

"Fr<>edom on th<> Internet and the Ethical Responsibility of IT Companies in China: A Panel Discussion" will begin at 5 p.m. today in .Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of' Business. 
The Office of Multicultural Affairs will present '"Whieh counts more: Rae£', Gender or Class'?" on Wednesday from noon (o 1 p.m. in Vander Vennet Theatre. 
ThP 2006 Endowed Fall Lectu1·e Series will kick o!T with "Welcoming thP Strange•·: Hospitality in the Christian Tradition" featur­ing Ana Maria Pineda of Santa Clara University at 
7:30 p.m. Wednesday in Stapleton Lom1gP, Le Mans Hall. 
The 2006 Endowed Fall Leet.ure Sedes will host a "Special Follow-up Event: Immigration Issues: A Catholic Common Ground Conversation" Thursday, at 
3:30 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall. 
Student Comedy Night at Legends will begin at 10 
p.m. Thursday. ND/SMCJHCC student lD required to enter. 
The traditional marehing band step-off will be at 4:30 
p.m. Friday in front of the Main Building, heading through eampus to its praetiee in the Joyee Center parking lot. 
To submil information to. be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an ez.•erzt to obsnews@nd.edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 80 HIGH 77 LOW 60 LOW 58 

DUSTIN MENNELLA/The Observer A Notre Dame cheerleader waves the Irish flag in front of fans at the Notre Dame vs. Geogia Tech football game in Atlanta Saturday. Notre Dame won the game, 14-10. 
OFFBEAT 
New York City man arrested 100th time 
QUEENSBURY, N.Y.-A New York City man has 
been  arrested  for  the  
1OOth time.  
Officials  with  the  

Warren County Sheriff's Department in eastern New York said they found Anthony Love, 40, of Brooklyn with $1,300 worth of merchandise stolen from outlet stores in his car. 
He had 99 prior arrests, including several for violent feloniPs. "We were number 100 for him," Sheriff's Sgt. James LaFarr said. 

Love was eharg0d with fourth-degree criminal possession of stolen property, a felony. and possession of an anti­seeurity item, a misde­meanor. 
Question in a bottle finally answered 
NOHTH KINGSTOWN, 
R.I. -A message in a bottle found after being hidden in a wall at Quonset. Naval Air Station for more than 60 years carne with a question its authors knew couldn't be answered unless their makeshift time capsule was discovered. 
The message asked, "Will this bottle see the sun?" 
It did after being found in May, and Quonset Dt~velopment Corporation authorities in North Kingstown made the bot­tle and its contents public. Friday. 
Harry Berrio, a demoli­tion crew member, found the bottle while taking down barracks at the Quonset station. Berrio said when he saw the writing, he realized it was something special. 
information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Peter Hochstedler 
freshman 
Morrissey 
"Yes. because Morrissey does not -contrary to what the Web site said­have a common kitchen and I want to make 
Sal Thomas 
junior Sarin 
"'am alread_tj 
r~[f-campus. 
Sorin CtJllege secededfrom the University " 

Atlanta 81 I 63 Boston 73 I 60 Chicago 70 I 59 Denver 78 I 53 Houston 86 I 66 Los Angeles 78 I 67 Minneapolis 74 I 53 New York 73 I 65 Philadelphia 76 I 62 Phoenix 96 I 79 Seattle 81 I 53 St. Louis 78 I 57 Tampa 90 I 74 Washington 80 I 64 
Tuesday, September 5, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BoARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Leaders face stricter standards 
There was no opposition. to "I would love to see bags
2.8 GPA required for 
the increased GPA, and the allowed in the dining hall," student government motion passed quickly. Johnson said. After the discussion over A brief discussion •ensund 
the GPA increase, Residence on why students arP not 
By UZ HARTER llall Association (RIIA) presi­allowed to bring bags into 
News Writer .de nt Amy Dard inger the dining hall. Mnmbers 
announced that HHA wPnt on debated if tlw rule should bl1 
Saint Mary's Board of a safety walk with i·ntorim ehangPd duo to theft and the GovnrnancP (BOG) officials Security Director Dan Woods limited space available to votNl to increase the grade to discuss security issues on keep bags outside the dining point average requirement campus. hall. for those running for studPnt OnP of the main concerns Members agrPfHI hags government at thPir meeting was increasing lighting on should be allowed in the din­Monday night. campus and Woods agrPed to ing hall, though BOG cannot 
"Hight now you need to place lights behind Holy make that decision and the havn a 2.5 GPA," student Cross hall. Woods also said issue will have to bt1 dis­body president Susan 11e will work with the cussed with Sodexho, the Mcllduff stated. "We are grounds crew to improve company that provides food thinking that this should be existing lighting. for the College. I increased] to 2.8 because "A lot of the lighting on Commissioners also said that is the minimum GPA campus is dim, not because the quality of food service necessary to maintain the there aren't lights, but this year has diminished. dean's scholarship." because there are trees Though the posted hours for 
Mclllduff said the higher [obscuring] them," Dardinger dinner are 4:30 to 7 p.m., requirement is a standard said. members noted that some of that student government Another problem area is the stations stop serving food should aspire to. the backpack rack outside before 7 and often take the 
"(This new rule] is not the Noble Family Dining food away. going to be a requirement of Hall. Athletic · commissioner the [freshmen l because Students leave their back­Anne Cusack said some [every high school grades packs and laptop bags on the sports teams go to dinner differently]," said elections floor rather than on the bag after practice and don't commissioner Christin racks, especially during the arrive at the dining hall until Molnar. "It will be a require­lunch rush. 6:45 pm. Since the food is ment that they maintain tho This not only prnsents a put away early, the girls on CPA into their second semes­fire hazard, but some stu­sports teams are eating eerP­tPr." dPnts have reported thefts al multiple times a week for 
It was unclear whether or from their bags, Dardinger dinner, Cusack said. not an election would be ncc­said. Mellduff said she would t~ssary to choosp, new board "Between 12 and 1 p.m. look into the matter. mPmbers if frPshmPn officers there aren't enough racks to have not met the GPA put backpacks on," sopho­rnquirPment by their second more class prnsident Contact Liz Harter at semester. Franresca Johnson said. 
eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Shappell 
continued from page 1 
a notice to abate. If the noise violation reoc(Jlrs, both the land­lord and the tenants get fined ­unl11ss the landlord evict<> the ten­ants within 30 days of the receipt of notieP of the prohibited con­duct. 
The amended ordinance is a city-wide law that affect<> all resi­dents. South Bend Common Council members and Assistant City attorney Ann-Carol Nash deny that it's targeting students. 
Student government took action against the amendment last spring, though, and appeared in front of the Common Council. Then-student body president Dave Baron argued that the notice to abate doesn't actually give tenants the chance to abate and wanted to change that provision. 
"There were mixed reactions [at the meeting]," said Josh Pasquesi, who currently chairs the Senate Community Helations Committee. "Some were good, some were a little more ... stubborn." 
The issue was delegated to the Common Council's own Community Relations committee, 

· Shappell said. On Friday, she and Pasquesi will meet with Karen White, the chair of that commit­tee, along with one of the Common Council's legal coun­selors. Shappell, who remained in eon­tact with members of the Common Council last spring and this summer, said she will have to wait until the meeting to see what the next stops are. "These are uncharted waters for student gowrnment," she said. But shP did make their goals 
clear. 
"We want to make the punish­ment fit the crime," she said. "We believe a fine should occur after the first offense and eviction after the second, in order to more fully reflect the ommsns." 
Shappell added that tlw pres­ence of studPnL-; on e.ampus again should strengthen tlw voien of stu­dent government and l'uel their efforts in the Common Council. 
Working "rf'troactivn[y" to change the ordinanc.P is just half 
-of the Senatt' two-part initiative to improve community relations, Pasquesi said. The other is an inf(mnation session with the NotrP Dame Law School that, aecording to Shappell. "works proactively to improve landlord-tenant as well as student-neighbor relation­ships." The program, put on by Senate with the help of' Bob Jones of the Notre Dame Legal Aid clinic, debuted last spring. A second information session will probably take place sometime in NovembPr. A consultation program f(Jr stu­dents who do get in trouble is in the "very beginning stages," too, Pasquesi said. In theory, the pro­gram would allow students to sit down with law students to talk about their options. In tl1e meantime, Pasquesi sug­gested students take community relations into their own hands. "If [students living ofT-campus] are going to have a party, they should call their neighbors and landlords and say 'Hey. we're hav­ing some pPople ovPr. If things gAt too loud, give us a call and we'll shut it down,"' he said. "Tho prob­lem is the disconneet bPtWPen stu­dents and their neighbors in the 
Contact Eileen DuffY at eduffY1@nd.edu and Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

Meet new friends Deepen old friendships Meet only once a week for an hour



EMMAUS EMMAUS 
Conununirics of Faith Sharing and Scripn~~·~ Study Comnmnities offaith Sharing and Scripture Study
• Get involved beyond Sunday Mass 



aus 


to 

Make an Ice Cream Sundae and Join an E ma•Js Group TONIGHT!!! 6:00-7:00 P. M Coleman-Morse Lounge 
• 
Discuss Sunday scriptures 

• 
Share your faith 

• 
Talk about what's important in your life 


Campus Ministry
• Hang out and have fun 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 5, 2006 

Honors 
continued from page I 

Science [students] and 50 Arts and Letters [students], and that is the plan for the indefi­nite future -we're sort of maxed out at that number," Delaney 
said. "Basically, the process choose 
Delaney said students we pick an advisor and students interest­have weekly
are capable of
ed in doing meetings to
doing the 
advanced work in track progress. both the humani­additional work. " Some students ties and the sci­begin their ences are often research as
C.F. Delaney
attr.acted to the early as sopho­
director
Honors Program, more year, he since "Notre Arts and Letters said. Dame is peculiar Honors Program The time com­
in that there is no College of Arts and Sciences," Delaney said. 

Students receive invitations to apply for the Honors Program during the admis­sions process, and there is no formal essay application. 
"The admissions office just sends me a folder of the top applicants and I select from those," Delaney said. 
Once invited, students indi­cate that they are interested and "almost all" students that 
enter the Honors Program remain in it, he said. 
While the classes are no doubt challeng­ing, Delaney is confident that students admit­ted to the Honors Program will be success­ful. 
"Basically, the students we pick are capable of doing the addi­tional work," Delaney said. 
Many Honors 

students choose a major in both the College of Science and the College of Arts and Letters, Delaney said. 
The Honors Program is unique because the curriculum consists of "small, writing intensive seminars" for all University requirements, Delaney said. Honors students also have the opportunity to take Honors electives, and at the end of their senior year, they must complete a major project. Arts and Letters Honors students complete an Honors Thesis, and Science Honors students must com­plete an Honors Research project. 
Senior Honors math and physics major Tony Bendinelli said students undergoing the Honors Research 
mitment might 
be significant, but. ultimately it's up to the student how much time he or she will invest in their classes, 
"I don't feel I would spend any more time doing the work for the Honors Program than for any other course," Bendinelli said. 
The Arts and Letters Honors Program offers trips to Chicago to experience muse­ums, theater, music, and dance, according to the 
''The best part is the opportunities ... Very few ofmy friends had heads of departments that could write them [recommendations] at the end oftheir freshman year. " 
Claire McGathey sophomore Honors student 
year." 
Program's website. 
"The best part is the opportunities," sophomore Honors student Claire McGathey said. "Very few of my friends had heads of departments that could write them [recommenda­tions] at the end of the first semester of their freshman 
The Glynn family has four children, two of which have already graduated from Notre Dame. John Glynn is founder and president of Glynn Capital Management in Menlo Park, Calif. He has served on the Arts and Letters Advisory Council at Notre Dame since 1998. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscoi@nd.edu 


Citations 
continued from page I 

Junior John Wloch, who was cited in Friday's Turtle Creek bust, has taken on a job in order to pay his fines, which he has heard will amount to $500 ­that is, $300 from the city of South Bend and $200 from the Office of Residence Life and Housing. 
Wloch, who now plans not to drink alcohol or go off campus until he's 21, said he feels "taken advantage of." ' 
"[The Indiana State Excise police] issued nearly 100 tickets at $300 apiece.... It seems to me, in some ways, a money­making scheme -they are tar­geting Notre Dame students," Wloch said. 
Without mentioning money, Moyer agreed the authorities seemed to be singling out the students' parties and handling them "a little excessively." 
"If it were a huge party and the neighbors called the cops, 

Biathlon 
continued from page I 

they can be active," Reagan said. 
Certified RecSports lifeguards, volunteers from the sailing club, and members of the Notre Dame Fire Department's rescue squad ensured biathlon participants were safe. Lifeguards used kayaks and sailing club mem­bers patrolled in motorboats to monitor the swimming portion of the event. 
Reagan said three participants were pulled from the water. 
The men's varsity swim team members, who have participat­ed in previous biathlons, was a large presence this year. 
that would be one thing," she said. "But it seems like they were targeting in advance. They said they read about it online and had undercover cops check it out." 
Wloch also said the status of the party upon the authorities' arrival -"it wasn't loud or out of control" -didn't warrant police action, and Moyer echoed his sentiments. 
"It sounded like at the time they gave out tickets, the party was already dying down," she said. " ... Maybe they shouldn't have worried about it, or just sent people home." 
According to Wloch, that's what police in the area used to do. Officers also arrived at a Turtle Creek gathering his fresh­man year, he said -but they weren't nearly as harsh. 
"They simply told everyone to leave. No citations were given," he said. "It wasn't a big deal-I had no ill feelings toward South Bend in general." 
For some, it's the danger ­not just the drinking -that is on their minds. 
"We can have fun in our rooms without having to wander off campus, or worry about getting there," said an anonymous male freshman, who plans to live on campus all four years. "It's a lot safer, and it's more fun to hang out with people you actually know." 
Lewis freshman Michelle Maloney said that while recent events could sway her opinion, staying on has its negative aspects, too. 
"[The events] are a downside to moving off campus, I would think," she said. "But staying on campus, you have to deal with rectors, too." 
Moyer said she feels the prob­lem is isolated to Turtle Creek apartments. 
"As long as I wasn't living somewhere like Turtle Creek where there are parties going on all the time, as long as I was moving into a better apartment complex, I think it would be fine [to move off campus]," she said. 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 

Reagan said the first competitor shirts. to cross the finish line was from The biathlon was senior Katie the varsity male team division, Fischls' first. with a time of approximately 18 "I used to swim and I am 
minutes. Individual com­
"It was a lot
petitors were not far behind, as the harder than I winners from expected, but it 
both the individ­
was a good 
ual male varsity 
and individual experience and I'm male non-varsity glad I did it." divisions crossed the finish line 
Katie Fischl

within a minute of each other, in a biathlon participant 
little over 20 min­utes. Reagan said official results from the event will be posted soon on the RecSports Web site and that winners from each division will receive intramural champion tee training for the Chicago marathon, so I thought [the biathlon] would be fun to try," Fischls said. "It was a lot harder than I expected, but it was a good experi­ence and I'm glad I did it." 
Reagan said he is happy with the number of partici­pants the race 
drew and is looking forward to more competitors next year. 
Contact Megan Wons at mwons@nd.edu 




Coffee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, September 5 7:30-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members ot the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal cotfee at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality IS assured 



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 


ORLD & NATION 
Ti.tesday, September 5, 2006 CoMP[LED FROM THE ()BSERVF.:rrs WJRESERVKES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. soldiers maybe Court-martialed 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -A U.S. Army investigator has recommended that four American soldiers aer~used of raping a a 14-year-old girl.and of killing her and her family face a court-martial, a lawyer in the case eonfnmed on Monday. 
Col. Dwight Warren, the investigator in the case, said in a report issued Sunday that "rea­sonable grounds exist to believe that each of the aecusPd nm11nitted the ofl'ense f()r which he is charged." 
The report was given to lavvyers in the ease and obtained bv The Associated Press from David Sheldon, the la\\-yer of one of the defi~n­dants. 
Tlw four soldiers of the 101 st Airborne Division are charg0d with raping Abeer Qassin1 al-Janabi in her family's home in Mahmoudiya, about 20 miles south of Baghdad. then killing her along with her parents and her young0r sis­ter. Military prosecutors say the four set the teenag!•r's body on fin• to hide their crime. 
Haiti, U.N. unite to disarm gangsters 
POBT-AlJ-PfUNCF, llaiti -Haiti's govPrnment and li.N. poaePkeepnrs vvilllaunch a major cam­paign seeking to persuade hundrPds of gang­s,t.ers tO disarm With promiSPS of nlOTJPy, food and job training, but top gang leaders will not be eligible, the U.N. envoy said Monday. 
In an exdusive interviPw ·with The AssociatNJ Press, sp0cial U.N. envoy Edmond Mulct said ollkials will begin airing radio and television ads in coming days t.o infoi·m the public about the disarmament plan. 
The move repn•sents the most sweeping effort to rwrsuadn well-arrrwd gangsters to lay down their wPapons and rejoin society since U.N. troops arrived in the troubled Caribbean nation two ynars ago to restore order following a. February 2004 rPvoJt. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Wildfires prompt hunt for wildlife 
RENO. Nnv. -A string of wildfires that scorched hundreds of square miles of prime habitat has prompted an emergency antelope hunt and relocation of unprecedented scope in Nevada. stat0 oflicials said. 
Nevada Department of Wildlife officials aut.horizPd a spneial hunt. of 200 antelope and tho relocation of up to 350 others after deter­mining the blackem~d rangeland is unablE' to support the herd of more than 1,000 animals northwest of Elko, about 290 miles mist of Heno. 
Thn dPpartment has nevpr befixe bPen forcnd to conduet an Pnmrgeney htmt and relocation of stH:h magriitude, spokesman Chris llealy said. 
Biologists fi~ar then~ would be a major dif~-olf this wint<'l' if th<' antelope herd is not thinned. 
Candles caused deadly Chicago fire 
CHICAGO -Cand!Ps used for light in an apartnwnt without electricity probably caused a liw that killml six 1·hildn~n inside, a lire depart­ment otlleial said Monday as lire investigators continued sifting through debris. 
ThP fire, thn city's dtmdliest in years. has been dassifiml as aeci~l0ntal but the· Chieago Police Department also was investigating, whieh is a· standard whnn tlwre are deaths. OlTieer Marenl Bright said. 
A preliminary investigation shows the Sunday morning blaze ·was caused by candles" in thn thr0c-bedroom apartment on the city's North Side. Fire Cmdr. \Viii Knight said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Mount Vernon fire destroys store 
MOUNT Vl~BNON. Ind. -FirE' destroyed a hardware store Monday but firefighters from about a dozen departments saved the retailer's lumber yard. 
The lin• at tho Mount Vernon Homecenter Inc. was reported about 11 a.m. and also destroyed a showroom and ofliees. Several nearby homes were evacuated until lirefighters were able to bring the blaze under control. 
Firelighters poured a..'> much as 50,000 gallons of water, some of it from the Ohio River just bloeks away, onto the fire that sent up a large plume of smoke visible from miles around. 
Police continue manhunt for fugitive 
New York state trooper dies after being shot in leg during search for escaped convict 
Associated Press 
FREDONIA, N.Y.-A state police official said Monday that "the noose is tighten­ing" in the manhunt for an escaped inmate accused of a deadly police ambush, and warned hunters to stay out of the woods where the fugi­tiVP may be hiding. 
Hunters in rural and wooded Chautauqua County are "interfering" with the search and face danger from Halph "Bucky" Phillips and authorities pursuing him, State Police Maj. Michael Manning said. 
""T".hey can certainly bn mistaken for the vvrong incli­vidual," Manning said. 
Many oflieers are scouring the westC'rn New York woods for Phillips, the prime suspP{~t in Thursday's ambush of troopers Donald Baker Jr., 38, and Joseph Longobardo, 32, who died Sundav. Baker remained in serious condition at a hospi­tal Monday, police said. 
Phillips. 44, wounded another trooper near Elmira in Jmw and has eluded police since his April 2 escape from an Erie County jail. 
SWAT teams from Buffalo, Rochester and Jamestown joined troopers in the seareh Monday, Manning said. Other reinforcements have eome from the FBI, Drug Enforcement when a gunman eaught ed of stealing 41 weapons Manning said. "We will be Administration, nParby Erie them by surprise and fired from a gun shop in late happy to meet him and County and policE' ageneies 11 high-powered rifle August, including rifles of guarantee his safi:~ty." in neighboring rounds, police said. the type that could have Before the evening cere­PPnnsylvania. Longobardo died three days bPen usPd in Thursday's mony in Longobardo's honor 
Manning would not say after being hit by a bullet ambush. Sunday. State Police how many law enforcement that severed a major artery Phillips' former girlfriend. Superintendent WaynP ollieers are involved in the in his leg. Baker was their daughter and the Bennett snnt Phillips a manhunt, but said the wounded hy a bullet that daughtpr's boyfriend have threatening mPssage: "You search and recent arrests of pierced his bullet-resistant been charged with helping can run but you ean"t hide. Phillips' supporters have put vest. him eludP authorities. Sooner or later, I don't care pressure on the suspect. There· is a $225,000 The pastor of a Homan how good you an~. we will 
"I think he's in hiding. I reward for information lead­Catholic church near find you." don't think he has any place ing to the arrest of Phillips, Phillips' homcto-.,vn on Lo.ngobardo's lPg had bn0n to go now," Manning said. who has thre<~tened "suicide Monday rerH~wed his otler to amputated, and hP mwpr "The noose is tighteni11g." by eop" and onee promised help thP fugitive surrender. regained consciousness af'tnr 
Manning added that there to "to splattE'r pig meat all but Manning said Phillips being shot. lie died at a is ··no reason to believe tw oVPr Chautauqua. County." and his ramilv and frinnds Bufl'aio hospital with his vvil() has l0ft the ar.ea." He has left a trail of bur­do not nend ar; intermediary. and parenls at his side. 
Baker and Longoba.rdo glaries and car thefts aeross "AU they have to do is call "He was your advocatP. were in woods behind the central and western New and say Halph Phillips wants He was our troopnr. Don't. isolat0d hilltop home of York and neighboring to turn himself in. hn's at ever forget it, plPase," Phillips' former girlfriend Pmmsylvania. Jle is suspect~ this present loeation. ·• Bennett said. 

AUSTRALIA 

Stingray's barb kills Crocodile Hunter 
Associated Press 
CAIRNS -He stalked lions. He faced off with poisonous snakes. I Ie wrestled with crocodiles. 
When the end came for television's beloved "Crocodile Hunter," it was in an encounter with a stingray and iJs venomous tail barb. 
Perhaps it wasn't surprising. Steve Irwin died doing what he loved best, getting too close to on0 of the dan­gerous animals he dedicated his life to protecting with an irrepressible, effervPscent personality that pro­pPlled him to global fame. 
The 44-year-old Irwin's heart was pierced by the serrated, poisonous spine of a stingray as he swam with the creature Monday while shooting a llf\W TV show on the Great Barrier Reef, his manager and producer .John Stainton said. 
Marine experts ealled the death a freak accident. They said rays reflexively deploy a sharp spinE' in their tails when frightrmed, but the venom coating the barb usually just causes a very painful sting for humans. 
"It was extraordinarily bad luck," said Shewn Collin. a University of Queensland marine neuroscientist. "It's not easy to get spined by a stingray, and to be killed by one is very rare." 

News of Irwin's death rPverb!:'rated around the world. where he won popularity wit.h millions as the man who regularly leaped on the back of hugE' erocodiles and grabbed deadly snakes bv the taiL 
"Crike.y!" was his catch phrase. repeated whenever thPre was a close call -or just about any other event -during his TV programs, delivered with a broad Australian twang, mile­a-minute delivery and big arm gns­tures. 
"I am shocked and distressed at St(:We Irwin's sudden. untimPly and freakish death." Australian Prime Minister John Howard said. "It's a huge loss to Australia." 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 5, 2006 
CLAP 
continued from page 1 
Council -a 30-member 
freely elected council of non­
exempt staff-on Sept. 14. 
"We are the agenda for this next meeting," said Krafft, who noted that discussions about a meeting between the two groups began last spring. "Right off the bat at the beginning of [this] school year, [Staff Advisory Council was] willing to meet with us." 
The Council, which defines non-exempt staff as "hourly wage earners and employees who are salaried but receive overtime after 40 hours," gathers 12 times per year to compile formal input and present issues that "affect the staff' to University adminis­trators, according to the Staff Advisory Council Web site. 
The Staff Advisory Council serves as a link between non­exempt staff and the adminis­tration, and is a "big part of the worker relationship," Krafft said. 
"They [Council members] are in a position of power, and if they're on board ... I think other workers would follow," he said. 
Staff Advisory Council, which identifies itself as a "pipeHne of information between the University administration and staff' on its Web site, is made up of staff from all different venues on campus. Members, who are self-nominating, must have completed at least six months of employment and must be a regular full-time or part-time non-exempt employee. 
The meeting with the Council is the first of many meetings with different cam­pus groups and administra­tors CLAP plans on having this year to create dialogue about the living wage. 
University administrators have agreed to more meet­ings this year, Krafft said, but the group decided it did not want to just continue where it left off last year. 
"I think just the way the semester ended was a blow to our momentum," he said. 
The "blow" came at the May sit-in when roughly a dozen CLAP members sat out­side Jenkins' office to present petitions signed by more than 1,300 supporters. Though Jenkins had met with the group five previous times that year, former senior and CLAP organizer Kamaria Porter wanted to meet to discuss the formation of a task force to evaluate the University's wage policies. 
While Jenkins refused to meet with the group at that time, Krafft said he consid­ered the sit-in "really key." Prior to the sit-in, Executive Vice President John Affleck­Graves released a statement backing the University's exist­ing wage policies. 
The group is still pursuing the idea of the living_ wage, "but we also want to strive to form a relationship with the workers so that we can address labor issues togeth­er," said junior Joe Murphy, who is a member of CLAP. 

Krafft said the group is not expecting to see a change in wages immediately, but rather a change in the University's willingness to examine the issue. 
"I don't think we can neces­sarily win on campus this year, but I think by the end of the year, we could get the University task force we're asking for," he said. "I don't think this year we'll just be treading water." 
Becky Hogan and Maddie Hanna contributed to this report. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
Autism expert coming to campus 
200 patients with Fragile X Syndrome for management of neurological, medical and behavioral issues. She also co­directs the Molecular Diagnostics Laboratory at Rush, including Fragile X DNA analysis. 
The Emil T. Hofman Lecture Series is a medical education program sponsored by St. Joseph Regional Medical Center in conjunction with the Notre Dame Alumni Association. The series honors the dean emeritus of the First Year of Studies and professor emeritus of chemistry at Notre Dame. 
Dame, Berry-Kravis received her medical degree and doc­torate from the University of Chieago and completed pedi­atrics and child neurology fel­lowships there. 
Iler major area of research is Fragile X Syndrome, and she established a Chieago-area Fragile X clinic in 1992. Fragile X Syndrome is a family of genetic conditions that is the most common cause of inherited mental impairment. This impairment can range from learning disabilities to more severe cognitive intel­leetual disabilities. 
Berry-Kravis currently sees 


Special to The Observer 
Dr. Elizabeth Berry-Kravis, associate professor of pedi­atrics, neurology and biochem­istry at Rush University Medical Center in Chicago, will deliver the 14th annual Emil T. Hofman Lecture at 10 a.m. Sept. 9 (Saturday) in the DeBartolo Hall auditorium at Notre Dame. 
Titled "Developmental Disorders and Autism: Ilints and Paths to Treatment from the Neuroscience of Fragile X Syndrome," the leeture is free and open to the public. 
A 1979 graduate of Notre 



ck. 



t t going. 
If you're looking for direction in your career, just read the signs. They'll tell you we've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. At Ernst &Young, we offer the opportunity to learn from some of the best talent in the industry, early in your career. So, early in your school year. visit us on campus, or at ey.comjusjcareers. 
Ernst &Young is excited to be back on campus. Please stop by and meet our team at the Fall Career Expo on Wednesday, September 13th. 
FORTUNE" 

100 BEST

COMPANIES?;g
TO WORK FOR~ 


THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Tuesday, September 5, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
11,464.15 +83.00

jones  
Up:  Same:  Down: Composite Volume:  
2,100  164  1,095  1,800,782,000  

-······ ..... r z~q3t';.z~fllllllliiiii1~1Jt:l.s9 · 
NASDA2 2.193.16 +9.41 
!~!N!!LMS!V%!! n·rn; • '.•·.•.ll;.'.*.·..··.~.:iffi·:.·· ..:fFl,'..'.'' .. ..i.i,.1 ...·'.;.,A;K··'.·.•.·.w·J•·······._fi.. .• ..··..•.·.;.'.l.
..•.·.·.'.l.io.:. ..ts.:::J(p1." ..•·•·...•. !.lli.••.•.::1.! ..!·.i..•1.1!.1.·,..1.:.> .. .•..~·•·.·.:.•',i.•·.'.•t.t¥...•....:n

,J:PIP~mnnr:?:::;m:n.vmm ==·==·=~=·=.=.>==·= , P. •4.nJ~.&f~1 ,, _,,=: :.~--,.Jrtmr}t:. 1 Yi, 
S&P 500 1 11.0 1 +7.19 
NlKKB(Toky(l) 
FTSE IOO(London) 5,986.60 +37.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  +0.54  +0.21  39.08  
INTEL CP (INTC)  + 1.58  +0.31  19.88  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  0.00  0.00  4.99  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.54  +0.14  25.84  
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU)  0.00  0.00  
10-YEAR NOTE  0.00  0.00  4.726  
13-WEEK BILL  0.00  0.00  4.885  
30-YEAR BOND  0.00  0.00  4.873  
5-YEAR NOTE  0.00  0.00  4.680  
··  commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -I .07  69.19  
GOLD ($!Troy oz.)  -1.60  632.60  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.45  91.95  
YEN  116.1800  
EURO  0.7769  
POUND  0.5243  
CANADIAN$  1.1 071  
'Most recent closing figures available, 09i02/2006  

IN BRIEF 
Cattle business soars in North Dakota 
BISMARCK, N.D.-Hard red spring wheat has been king in North Dakota for decades, hut good times in the cattle industry are making cattlemen smile. 
Officials say cattle and calves are not likely to capture the cro\NIJ of leading value producer in North Dakota agriculture, but ranchers are still pleased V~-ith how far the industry has come in the past decade. . 
"We've maintained all along that there's more potential for livestock in North Dakota than is being utilized," said rancher Melvin Leland, president of the North Dakota Stockmen's Association. "We think there's far more poten­tial for advancing livestock production than there is, possibly, in cereal grain production." 
Buoyed by prices that reached record highs last year and earlier this year, the value of cat­tle and calf production in North Dakota has set a record for three straight years. Earl Stabenow. a U.S. Department of Agriculture statistician in Fargo, said record-keeping began in 1965. 
In terms of value of production, the gap between spring wheat and cattle and ealves also has narrowed dramatically over the past 10 years. Last year, the two were elose to equal: $808 million for spring wheat and $760 million for cattle and calves, adifference of $48 million. In 2003, the gap was $314 million, and in 1996 it was slightly more than $1 billion. 
Leland said he thinks cattle and calf produc­tion value has a ehance of surpassing that of spring wheat in North Dakota in coming years -if the growth of ethanol plants with feed byproducts boosts the cattle-feeding industry in the state and prolonged drought keeps the nation's cattle numbers low and prices high. 
Tim Petry, a livestock economist with the North Dakota State University Extension Service, said drought in the nation's cattle country has "completely wreaked havoc" on the typical 10-year cattle supply-and-demand cycle. 
With good prices, ranchers should be build­ing up herds now, whieh would increase supply and eventually lead to a drop in prices, and a drop in production value. Instead, many are not adding to their herds or are selling oil' animals because of a lack of forage caused by drought. 
Bush delivers economic message 
President touts enzerging energy technologies, Anterican competitiveness 
A.•sociated Press 
PINEY POl NT, Md. ­President Bush marked Labor Day on Ivionday by promising to help keep 
U.S. 
workers competitive in global markets and n•duce U.S reliance on for­eign oil so it doesn't choke 

U.S. 
economic expansion. 


"Dependence on foreign oil jeopardizes our capaci­ty to grow." Bush said in a speech focused on the U.S. eeonomy -a key issue in November elections that will determine whether tJtP GOP retains eonlrol of the House and Senate. 
Democrats contend the middle elass isn't enjoying the benefits of recent U.S. economic gains. They say sluggish median earnings show paychecks have failed to keep pace with inflation, and they note rising health care and energy costs. 
Average prices at the gas pump have eased over the past month from more than $3 for a gallon for unleaded regular gasoline to $2.79. That has given Amerieans some relief, hul Bush warned against con­tinued reliance on oil-pro­ducing countries where the United States is unpop­ular. 
"The problem is we get oil from some parts of the vocational training to tough new fuel economy America -stand squarely world and they simply members of the Seafarers standards is hobbling our behind the men and don't like us," Bush said. International Union. national security, our women who wear our uni­"And so the more depend­Technology has allowed economv and our environ­form." ent we are on that type of the union to be more pro­ment," Markey said. "And Before his outdoo1· energy, the less likely it ductive, Bush said, and proposing nuclear power remarks, Bush spent time will be that we are able to "technology is going to as an answer to cars, SUVs "steering" a U.S. Coast compete, and so people enable us to become less and trucks burning oil Guard cutter in a simula­have good, high-paying dependent on oil." shows that the president tion room where he was jobs." Hep. Ed Markey, D­isn't serious about our surrounded by video 
Bush said he is working Mass., a senior member or dangerous Middle East oil screens ofl'ering him a to advance technologies so the House Energy and dependence." panoramic view of the batteries can power auto­Commerce Committee, Bush also urged harbor in Baltimore and mobiles on short trips and said Bush didn't mention Congress to make penna­gurgling sounds of water. ethanol can replace gaso­one proposal aimed at eas­nent a host of tax cuts. "Just make sure I don't line. He also renewed his ing U.S. addiction to for­And he thanked America's run into the wall," he support for nuclear ener­eign oil: Upgrading fuel fighting men and women joked. gy. economy standards from for their sacrifices and Later in the day, Bush 
The president gave his levels set in 1975 to reflect said, "They may hear all spent a little more than an 11-minute holiday address nearly 30 years of new the political discourse hour hiking on the at the Paul Hall Center for technologies. going on, hut the people of grounds of a Secret Maritime Training and "President Bush's willful this country -the people Service training facility in Education, which offers disregard of imposing of the United States of Beltsville, Md. 

AFGHANISTAN 
Opium cultivation rose 59 percent 
A::Ssoci':lrea·i.>ress_____ 
al-Qaida bases. trade already accounts for at least 35 "The news is very bad. On the opium percent of Afghanistan·s economy, 
KABUL-Afghanistan's world-lead­front today in some of the provinces of financing warlords and insurgents. ing opium eultivation rose a "stagger­Afghanistan. we faee a state of emer­The top U.S. narcotics oflicial here ing" 59 percent this year, the U.N. gency,'' Antonio Maria Costa, chief of said the opium trade is a threat to the anti-dmgs chief announced Saturday the U.N. Office on Drugs and Crime, country's fledgling democracy. in urging the government to crack said at a news conference. "In the "This eountrv could be taken down down on big traffickers and remove southern provinces, the situation is out by this whole ·drugs problem," Doug (~orrupt officials and police. of mntrol." Wankel told reporters. "We have seen 
The record crop yielded 6,100 tons He talked with reporters after pre­what can eome from Afghanistan, if' of opium, or enough to make 610 tons senting results of the U.N. survey to you go back to 9111. Obviously the U.S. of heroin -outstripping the demand Afghan President. Hamid Karzai, who does not want to see that. again." of the world's heroin users bv a third, voieed "disappointment" over the fig­The bulk of the opium inereasc was according to U.N. figures. · ures. "Our efforts to fight narcotics in lawless Helmand province. where 
Oflicials warned that the illicit. trade have proved inadequate," Karzai said cultivation rose 162 percent and is undermining the Afghan govern­in a statement. accounted for 42 percent of the ment, which is tmder attack by Islamic With the economy struggling, there Afghan crop. The province has been militants that a U.S.-led offensive are not enough jobs and many wracked by the surge in attacks by helped drive from power in late 2001 Afghans say they have to grow opium Taliban-led militants that has pro­for harboring Osama bin Laden and poppies to feed their families. The duced the worst fighting in five years. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 5, 2006 

Study seeks safer warfarin dosages 
Blood thinner poses problems for patients 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -It's the nation's most troublesome life­saver. Every day, 2 million Americans swallow a blood thin­ner called warfarin that puts them on a tightrope: Too little, and they won't be protected from lethal blood clots. Too much, and they can bleed to death. 
Something as simple as a big serving of spinach or stressful travel can alter how much of the drug stays in the body, putting patients in a danger zone. 
Even picking the best dose in the first place is perilous, as doc­tors basically use trial-and-error for each patient. 
one week, "I could go celebrate with a big salad. Actually, I could eat salad every single day but I need to do it consistently," she now knows. 
Warfarin is one of the most widely used medicines, and doc­tors' top choice in blood thinners to prevent heart attacks, strokes and other lethal blood clots. It cuts some patients' risk of death by up to 70 percent. 
At the same time, warfarin is one of the most side-effect prone drugs. The FDA cites research suggesting warfarin alone accounts for 15 percent of severe drug side effects. For every 100 patients, there are anywhere from one to seven major bleeding episodes. 
And most of the side effects occur in the fJrst month of treat­
ment, says FDA 
pharmacology chief 
Dr. Lawrence Lesko. 
That could soon "Each person has a Enter the gene change. Scientists limited range tests. · have discovered A gene known as
where they have 

two genes that help CYP2C9 produces determine if some­the right thinness an enzyme that one can tolerate ofblood ... it is helps the body 
only a little war­metabolize a variety
hard to get it right 

farin or needs a lot. of medicines.
the first time.,, 

So the Food and Variations in that D r u g gene can make peo­Administration is ple metabolize war­
Dr. Brian Gage 

launching a major farin more slowly, .

Test Leader, National 

study to see if test­so that they need a 

Institutes of Health 

ing new patients' smaller dose. 
genes will dramati­cally reduce side effects during the critical first weeks of therapy. 
Even before that study gets under way this fall, the FDA is about to alter the warning labels on generic warfarin and the brand-name version, Coumadin. The message to doctors: Be aware that some patients' genes dictate far lower doses than you usually prescribe, and stay tuned for more precise instructions. 
"It's a very difficult drug," says Dr. Brian Gage of Washington University in St. Louis, who is leading a pilot study of the gene testing for another government agency, the National Institutes of Health. "Each person has a limit­ed range where they have the right thinness of blood .... It's hard to get right the first time." 
The difficulty doesn't stop once doctors finally settle on an initial dose. Patients .need regular blood tests -daily at first, then weekly or monthly -to check that their blood is clotting properly. Few get those checks at specialized clinics trained to recognize impending side effects and avert them. 
And a recent survey by the National Consumers League sug­gests too few understand other basic steps they're supposed to take to avoid warfarin complica­tions. 
"Patients, some were absolutely clueless. It was scary how much they didn't know," said Rebecca Burkholder, health policy director at the consumer group, which has begun a patient-safety campaign to try to change that. 
Among the leading myths: that warfarin users must avoid vitamin K-rich green, leafy vegetables. Warfarin works by blocking a step in the blood-clotting process that is largely regulated by vitamin K. 
Actually, the key is consuming about the same amount of vitamin K all the time, learned Lynn Levitt, 32, of Highlands Ranch, Colo., who has used the drug for three years since developing a life­threatening clotting disorder. 
Levitt initially thought if tests showed her blood wasn't too thin But that's not the 
only factor. A vita­min K-related gene called VKORC1 produces the blood-clot­ting protein that warfarin blocks. People who produce less of that protein need less warfarin. 
Say doctors start a 200-pound, 40-year-old man on 10 milligrams of warfarin. But ifhe had the war­farin-sensitive gene combination, he'd only need 3 mg-the higher dose puts him at risk of a hemor­rhage. Today, doctors would know that only once routine blood tests show the patient's clotting levels out of whack, and it can take days for a dose adjustment to kick in. 
In November, FDA-funded researchers will begin enrolling up to 800 warfarin patients to see if gene testing gets them the right dose faster, with fewer side effects in that first month. 

Protests have not produced votes 
Expectations for new registrations not met 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES Immigration protests that drew hundreds of thousands of flag­waving demonstrators to the nation's streets last spring promised a potent political legacy -a surge of new Hispanic voters. 
"Today We March, Tomorrow We Vote," they proclaimed. 
But an Associated Press review of voter registration fig­ures from Chicago, Denver, Houston, Atlanta and other major urban areas that had large rallies found no sign of a new voter boom that could sway elections. There was a rise in Los Angeles, where 
500.000 protested in March, but it was more of a trickle than a torrent. 
Protest organizers -princi­pally unions, Hispanic advocacy groups and the Catholic Church -acknowledge that it has been hard to translate street activism into voting clout, though they insist they can reach their goal of 1 million new voters by 2008. 
"I was anticipating a huge jump in registration. I didn't see it," said Jess Cervantes, a veter­an California political operative whose company analyzes Hispanic voting trends. "When you have an emotional response, it takes time to evolve." 
It's impossible to count exact­ly how many new registrants were inspired by the new move­ment because counties typically don't ask for race or ethnicity. 
New registrations were up this year compared to last year, but they were well below the numbers in 2004, and the increase is not surprise at a time Democrats and Republicans are struggling for control of Congress. Even with­out that factor, the numbers don't indicate the watershed awakening advocates had envi­sioned. 
The emotional response that erupted in huge rallies across the country last spring was a reaction to federal legislation that would have overhauled current immigration policy, including criminalizing the esti­mated 11 million immigrants here illegally. · 

While that legislation is effec­tively dead this year, immigra­tion remains a campaign issue. 
Hispanic voters are a pivotal voting bloc, especially with their numbers projected to continue to grow. But they have long voted in numbers far below their share of the population, in part because many are under 18 or not U.S. citizens. A study by the Pew Hispanic Center found that while Hispanics accounted for half the nation's population growth between the 2000. and 2004 elections, they represented only one-tenth of the increase in votes cast. 
The lack of political experi­ence helps explain why the flow of new registrations has been halting. 
Some activists acknowledge that their groups have yet to master the nuances of voter registration drives -typically a face-to-face task more complex than mobilizing a march. Others complain that political parties with the most to gain 
haven't financed registration 
efforts. 
"Until the money is spent, 
',Today We March, Tomorrow 
We Vote' will always just be a 
slogan," said Nativo Lopez, 
president of the California­
based Mexican-American 
Political Association. 
"A million new registrations 
would cost about $10 million. Is 
anybody willing to pay that? I 
haven't seen it," Lopez said. 
What's more, no galvanizing 
leader of the immigrant-rights 
movement has emerged, and 
the largest pool of potential vot­
ers -young people -tends to 
be the hardest to reach. 
The AP reviewed new regis­

tration numbers over several years in metropolitan areas that include Los Angeles, San Francisco and San Jose, Calif.; Phoenix and Tucson, Ariz.; Dallas and Houston; Chicago; Atlanta; Denver; and . Jacksonville and St. Petersburg, Fla. The time frames included January-through-July periods dating to 2004 and periods before statewide elections, when registration efforts are 
most intense. 


Interested in social econotnic issues in developing countries? 
Come Learn about Tite Haiti \V'orking Group 

Tomorrow 
Wednesday Sept 6th at Spm 
in CoMo Small L,ounge 

Pizza and Soda Provided 

Any questions please email Nicole at nrd.elrey@nd..edu 



--~--------­

Tuesday, September 5, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
ar1m a so o1s 



o walker 
• 

an cow 
1r 
* 
Learn more about Erin Towery and tell us more about YOU~ Visit pwc.comlbringit~ 
Your life,. You can bring it with you. 

. 

*connectedthinking 

© 2006 Pricewatemou..-.eC."'>Opers U.P. .l\il rights rese<ved. ~PricewatemouseCoopers" refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (a Delaware !im!ted liability partl".ar"...h!p) or. as the context ~-me PricewatemouseCoopel'S glal).al netwart;; "'olher rnemtlef fi<Tl15 of fue netwm, each m Vittim is a separate and independent legal entity. "\".lJ•mectedttlirr,.;ing i.s a tnv.iemaOt of ~illilct'lou.~ qp · (US). We are proud to be an Aff!fmative Action and Equa; Opport(mity Empioye<. 


..... 

THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, September 5, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Beyond the living wage 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Mary Kate Ken Fowler Malone Greg Arbogast What is the biggest deterrent to Katie Kohler Chris'Hine living off campus? Marcela Berrios Scene Viewpoint Analise Lipari 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Margie 

at www.ndsmcobserver.com
Rosmonowski Graphics Madeline Nies 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Raben Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Aaronacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR; Ken Fowler ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Alben 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNom: Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. ·Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe · Observer. · 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contacr information. 
Qumions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed w Editor in Chief Mike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The ~(USPS 599-24000) is puhli&hcd Mondily through Fricby <:XG¢pt during exam anJ va:cation periods.~ subscriprion [I) The: Ob&crv~r is $1 OQ for one ~eruic yean $S5-for -one' ~mestcr. 
The ~rve-r is published at:: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send :address conw:ions-{(): Notte Dame. IN 465-56-0779 The Observer Period.icaJ pos+agc paid at Notte Dame P.O.llo<779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Norrc Dame, IN 465~9 
The Obsem:r it ;a member-of the Associated Press. AU reproduaion rights arc 
'"""'«!. 

I have struggled to keep up with cam­pus news since I moved to Washington in January, and other than the outcry surrounding Father John Jenkins' approach to academic freedom, the emergence of the Campus Labor Action Project (ClAP) appears to be the big story of the semester. 
The heart of the liv­ing wage argument is the claim that the best way of solving the great problems of poverty is to provide all workers with an hourly rate of pay that will allow them to fulfill their needs and those of their families. I think that we all desire to live in a world in which no working person would go without the means to survive and care for loved ones. Unfortunately, after careful study, I don't think that the living wage is the right tool for the job. 
Policy should be implemented through the proper use of the right tools. A screwdriver shouldn't be used to clean a carpet, and a chisel should not be used to brush teeth. Likewise, a policy intended to help low-income wage earn­ers with dependents should not end up harming those very people. According to the Employment Policies Institute (www.epionline.org), a foundation that funds independent economic studies in universities across the country, the liv­ing wage actually hurts many low­income wage earners. 
Enacting a living wage raises compen­sation for a job without increasing job requirements. This is great for those workers who receive the benefits of a pay raise, but as workers retire, greater pay leads to greater competition for jobs. Logically, employers choose the most qualified applicant for a job, and doubling the pay for a certain position will result in workers of the original skill level being displaced by more 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
skilled applicants. Just as urban renew­al leads to low-income families being priced out of their homes by increasing property values, the 'gentrification' of the workforce will lead to fewer jobs for the very workers the living wage seeks 
to hnlp. · · 
While large institutions with three bil­lion dollar endowments, like Notre Dame, may be able to absorb increased labor costs, most small businesses can­not. Adopting a living wage will foree many small, mom-and-pop stores to close or cut employees. Many ol'the University's contracted workers are employed by small businesses, and CLAP's demands would exact a heavy toll on the people who lose their jobs due to cost-cutting. 
Despite the problems that some low­income workers would face as a result of a living wage, not all would suffer. The employees who survived layoffs, labor gentrification and, not to mention, a higher cost of living, would likely experience a substantial increase in pay. The greatest problem with a living wage is not its negative effects on low­income wage earners, but its wholesale failure to actually target working fami­lies.· 
CLAP's 'Living Wage Report' calcu­lates its target hourly rate, $12.10 an hour, based on the income needed to support a family of four. The last clause is very interesting because UCLA Professor Richard Sanders' study of a proposed living wage ordinance in Los Angeles states, "[A] majority of low wage workers are not the sole or even principle source of income in their household or family. Of those low wage workers who do not live alone, less than one quarter are the only wage earner in the family. As a result, most low wage workers do not live in families that are below the poverty line." In fact, a U.S. Census Bureau study found that only 15 percent of workers affected by a pro­posed $6.15 increase in the minimum wage were single wage earners with kids. Forty-one percent of workers affected by a minimum wage increase live with a parent or a relative. Enacting a living wage raises prices, 

forces lower skilled citizens out of the workforce, assaults small businesses (which employ 52 percent of all private employees), and worst of all, is more likely to help an adult living with his or her parents than a single mother with two children. That is horrible policy­like using a hammer to chop firewood. 
Our standard of living is closely relat­ed to the productivity of the American worker. The best way to give workers a fair wage is to increase their productivi­ty through investment in human and physical capital. Education is an essen­tial part of this equation, and Notre Dame is in a unique position to help working families earn more by target­ing employees with families who are below the poverty line. The administra­tion should allow these employees to attend selected computer and business classes for free and 'on the clock' so that they can gain the additional skills they need to obtain higher paying jobs that will support their families. 
In the interim, the University should revisit its pay scale and investigate methods of ensuring that all employees of the University are able to have fair wages determined on an individual basis. All of the people who keep Notre Dame running should consider them­selves part of the Notre Dame family. I can imagine no better way of demon­strating this than providing every mem­ber of that family with the opportunity to learn. 
Jonathan Klingler is a senior manage­ment consulting major and the President of the Notre Dame College Republicans. He currently resides in Keenan Hall and enjoys Tolstoy and Matlock. He can be contacted via e-mail at jklingle@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
.-.I. G2USTION 
lHEIR. 
L 0 \'4LT'; ~ 
) 
I
S··.1b.;~·'t ~-··· t•.•..Qj·t·tQ.··i_:
.. UJDl :.. I "'.;{ ;. t"f f 
t tb•.e Ed't.. Ul or a • t'
o.• 
1 
J www.ndsmcobserver.com (,
: , ·v· =~...,... i:: 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'The superior man thinks always of virtue; the common man thinks ofcomfort." 
Confucius Chinese philosopher 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 5, 2006 page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Middle East tensions continue 
A stand against double-barreled white supremacy is necessary for international improvements 
Both Ryan Davidson ("An invalid assumption," Aug. 29, "Stereotypes versus Statistics," Sept. 1) and William McAuliffe ("The War on Errorism," Aug. 25) present a logic that justifies the suppression of Arab and Muslim self-government. They are simply debating each other about how to best administer the U.S. Empire: whether to use the carrot or the stick. This empire, in its ideologies, practices and institutions, rules today through a revamped version of white supremacy. As such, both of their philosophies are inconsistent with basic standards of democracy and anti-racism. 
Davidson is angry with Clare Feeney for calling him a racist ("Beware Stereotyping," Aug. 30). But I don't see what else you can call someone who believes people of color are bar­barians who must not govern them­selves. Davidson opposes the idea that "the Muslim world is, at root, a sane, rational civilization" like Canada, Britain or Germany. Here, he makes a classic divide between higher and lower cultures, a divide that has replaced the 19th century idea of higher and lower races since openly talking about races has become....dis­tasteful. But Davidson makes basically the same point: white nations are rational and civilized, while the Middle Eastern countries they have colonized are not, and therefore, they deserve what they get. To support his claim that Muslims are barbarians, Davidson writes like a 19th century anthropologist, documenting a laun­dry list of their savage behaviors, from suicide bombing to executing women for being raped. Making no effort to put any of these acts into con­text, he talks as if Iran, Iraq, Palestine and Lebanon are all the same place. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Roads in Lebanon 

In your Sept. 3 issue, the student Naseem al-Helo states that in the recent war Israel bombed all roads on which Lebanese civilians could have left the area to safer ground ("Misconceptions inhibit progress"). This is a factual error. Israel bombed only roads leading east and northeast from Lebanon in the direction of Syria. Roads leading North and Northwest were left open during the entire duration of the war. Anyone who doubts this may refer to CNN footage of Lebanese civilians returning in great numbers to the South after the war, with vehicles, on intact roads. Escape routes were not closed off. 
Indeed, Israel's policy was to drop leaflets warning civilians of impending bombings. Whereas criticism of Israel can no doubt be made on some matters, it should be made on factual grounds and on solid evidence of policies, not on factual errors. On the other hand, there were reports of 1-Iizzbulah not allowing Lebanese civilians to evacuate their homes. I do not know if these reports are true. They are worth investigating further in order to determine the extent of Hizzbulah responsibility for civilian deaths in Lebanon. 
Jerome Gellman professor of philosophy Sept. 4 

This creates a specter of Middle Eastern people as uniformly and time­lessly violent, forever at war with what he calls "Christendom." He lumps all Muslim politics under the ridiculous term "Islamofascism," whitewashing the differences between heroic Islamic democratic struggles and the opportunistic projects of aspiring religious elites. 
, I agree that suicide attacks on civil­ians are absolutely unjustified. But let this be clear: the Palestinian, Iraqi and Lebanese people are currently fighting an anti-colonial struggle against regimes that use supposedly civilized U.S. training and tanks to ter­rorize and suppress the self-govern­ment of the majority of their civilians through bombings, assassinations and torture. They have a right to defend themselves with arms. Were American citizens justified in building guerrilla militias to fight against British tyran­ny? Few would dispute this. Why then should the American people be justi­fied in waging an anti-colonial strug­gle but not the Palestinians, Lebanese or Iraqis? The common response "because they are terrorists" doesn't cut it: the American Revolution also spawned inexcusable acts of terror­ism, but these do not invalidate the overall legitimacy of the struggle. Why should they in the Middle East, unless we are to adopt a racist double stan­dard and say, "well, brown people can't be trusted with guns?" 
Such a double standard is implicit in Davidson's position. He admits that Americans, Canadians and Germans are not blameless and says they have "blood on their hands," but this does not make them uncivilized. I agree: we shouldn't demonize all Western people simply because of the crimes of their states. Tellingly, however, Davidson doesn't apply this same standard to Arab and Muslim people. Atrocities committed in their names become characteristic of the barbarism of entire peoples. Furthermore, he equates the disastrous politics of states in the Middle East with the ethos of their peoples and then con­cludes that everyday people should not be self-governing because they will simply, as he puts it, "choose reactionary and backward-looking governments." He refuses to recognize the existence of democratic move­ments in the Middle East against these authoritarian regimes, whether secu­lar or Islamic: i.e., the second Intifada was driven by the Palestinian people rising up against the Palestinian Authority. 
McAuliffe would disagree with Davidson's all-the-natives-understand­is-force counterinsurgency style. However, he portrays people in the Middle East as having a "narrow per­spective on world affairs and U.S. for­eign policy" as if they have no agency and are susceptible to the suggestions of manipulative terrorists. He is upset that the U.S. is engaging in unintelli­gent violence that is hard to explain to the empire's dimwitted subjects. He wants the administration to adopt a more humanitarian imperial policy so as to "demonstrate that the West can be a positive, healing, peaceful power in an unstable region." But the region is not unstable because everyday peo­ple are narrow-minded, underfed and undereducated innocents, prone to manipulation by extremists who cause trouble. In fact, by subscribing to this view, McAuliffe portrays Middle East peoples as barnyard animals who would be happy and peaceful if only the U.S. would reattach the oat bag to their faces through better infrastruc­ture development and aid. He fails to see that the region is unstable precise­ly because everyday people are in revolt against the U.S. Empire. 

The American state will never play a "healing, peaceful" role in the world. It rules by claiming to develop its sub­jects and tutor them in democracy. But the class of bureaucrats who claim to bring freedom and development to the Middle East are the same people who suppress our freedoms at work and have their boys beat us with clubs in our neighborhoods! Then they leave American cities like New Orleans and Detroit to crumble to pieces and rot. 
Davidson's open racism is hard to take seriously today. McAuliffe's con­descending strategy of playing the kind father to abused Arab children is more dangerous since United States official society today claims to be a defender of human rights, as if the 
U.S. military really brought freedom to the women of Afghanistan (even while it lifts their veils only to rape them.) But the crisis is not simply the "errorism" of the Bush administration, as if the fires burning across the world could be put out by a kinder, gentler empire if you all only vote Democrat in the next elections. In reality, both parties are defenders of white supremacy. My hope is that movements for self-government in Palestine, Iraq, Lebanon and America succeed, leaving them both in the his­torical dustbin that currently houses the British Empire, Jim Crow and Apartheid. 
Matthew Hamilton graduate student Sept. 4 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, September 5, 2006 
I SC~&{fiRD I Confessions of a soap opera. fan 
My name is Cassie and I'm a soap-a-holic. There are others of you like me on campus, hiding behind closed doors, not willing to admit your slight disappointment that your class sched­ule conflicts with your favorite soap opera. You try to tape your soaps, read detailed recaps online or maybe you even got DV­R to main­tain your addiction. 
Whatever the case, you love soap operas with all your heart, but you're just a little bit ashamed to admit it. When friends walk by and hear the intro to "Guiding Light" or "General Hospital," they scoff and immediately begin a tirade on the inferiority and mindlessness of the soap opera. You search for words to defend yourself, but nothing will convince the nonbe­liever that soaps are a legitimate form of entertainment. 
Now is the time to rise up, my fellow soap opera fans. Be proud of daytime television! 
However, this article is not for you. It is for those who let their misguided elitism stand in the way of being truly entertained and captivated by soaps and for those who don't realize how on fire "General Hospital" is right now. Like, amazingly on fire. 
Soap operas have evolved since their days on radio but their soul remains the same-relation­ships. Relationships between friends, lovers, enemies and fami­lies drive these shows as familiar­ity with the characters increases. 
Each episode, we learn more about the characters and develop an intimacy with them. We antici­pate their next actions and dis­cuss their relationships with friends. In this way, watching soaps becomes a social activity and a way to see parallels in our own lives. Sound familiar? 
Actually it sounds like "Desperate Housewives" and "Grey's Anatomy." A soap is noth­ing more than a serialized drama broadcast five days a week, 52 weeks a year. Many of your favorite primetime programs are just glittery soap operas with sto­rylines already used in daytime. 


Soaps, by any other name, have just as many suds. 
But many will argue that the acting in primetime is of a higher caliber than daytime. This assumption is not without reason. Several daytime actors, mostly the newbies, are terrible. Soap opera acting is a difficult craft to hone. Actors are constantly mem­orizing lines and going through pages and pages of dialogue every day in order to keep up with filming. Some actors natu­rally fall behind. 
However, the majority of day­time actors are superb. One look at veterans Maurice Benard ("General Hospital") or Erika Slezak ("One Life to Live") and my beliefis validated. They are Emmy-award winning actors who could easily find work in prime­time or films, but stay in daytime because they love their jobs and they love their characters. 
One last message to the nonbe­lievers: soap opera fans are not stupid. We know that storylines are sometimes ridiculous. We know that realistically a human being does not go through such a high degree of trauma. 
We know that when we die, we won't come back five years later with a new husband and a severe case of amnesia. The purpose of a soap opera is to entertain using drama-not to depict absolute realism. But for every vampire storyline, there is a drug addic­tion storyline. For every psychotic serial killer, there is a character struggling with HIV or cancer. 
Soap operas draw on human emotions and tackle social issues in depth and in real-time so that the audience may see the day-to­day effects of disease or an unex­pected pregnancy on relation­ships, health and state of mind. 
My words today may not con­vince a single person to stop ridi­culing soaps, but I am an absolute defender of soap operas (even "Passions," I suppose) and I urge all non-fans to keep an open mind -to recognize quality acting and fascinating narratives and to real­ize both the frivolity and the seri­ousness of daytime dramas. 
And if anyone out there watch­es "Generalllospital," Jet me know. We need to talk. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of z.about.com Often filled with dramatic moments, "One Life to Live" Is among daytime television's longest-running dramas. 
DVD REVIEW 
J'Lights' a true sports wonder 
By SEAN SWEANY Assistant Scene Editor 
With the arrival of Notre Dame football back in South Bend this weekend, there will be many opportunities to revel in the gridiron sport, especially watching inspirational movies in thn days leading up to games. While "Rudy" is always an obviously popular choice, there arc many other tine films that can tire up one's adrena­line before Saturday rolls around. 
One such movie is "Friday Night Lights," a 2004 lilm by Peter Berg ("The Rundown") based on the Pulitzer Prize win­ning book by II.G. Bissinger that showcases the true story of the poor town of Odessa, Texas and its 1988 football team, the Permian Panthers. The crazy, almost maniacal love of Texas high school football becomes clear in this movie and appears to rival, if not surpass, that of Notre Dame. 
Billy Bob Thornton ("Bad Santa") plays Gary Gaines, the head coach who must try to guide the Panthers to the state championship amidst distrac­tions and high expectations placed upon him and his team from the town of Odessa. 
His exhortations to "be per­fect" and urgings that "we will win state" rest on the hopes of star running back Boobie Miles, played by Derek Luke ("Antwone Fisher," "Glory Road"), a flashy, cocky super­star who entertains dreams of the NFL. 
When Boobie gets hurt early in the season, the team must band together behind quiet, humble quarterback Matt Winchel, played by Lucas Black ("The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift") to keep their hopes alive to win state. The rest of the movie follows their quest and chronicles the emo­tional highs and lows that come along with it. 

The film is well acted, most notably on the part of Thonrton as an emotional, inspirational coach, but the young unknown actors that play members of the football team deliver believable and appropriate performances. 
Singer Tim McGraw portrays the alcoholic and abusive father of one of the players. A former player himself, McGraw's Charles Billingsley won a state championship in his own day and expects the same from his son. Several other family con­flicts like this pepper the plot of the film and add real human problems to the pressure of Texas high school football. 
Berg's camera is constantly moving and ehanging focus, hinting at an instability and uncertainty among the charac­ters in the film as to whether or not football and r·emaining in Odessa arc the most important things in the world. The only static shots depict scenes of the town from afar, showing the bleakness and poverty of rural Texas in the 1980s. 

runs higher. "Friday Night
Friday Night Lights Lights" is a movie that turns on those lights and then basks and 
Full and Widescreen Edition 
thrives in their intensity. It stands as one of the best foot­ball movies of all time and is
Sony Pictures 

worthy of a spot in any DVD collection. 

Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 

As a football movie, "Friday Night Lights" exists in a broad spectrum of films that have been made about the sport. The writing, acting and gritty story­telling here enable the film to stand as one of the better foot­ball movies ever made. 
Deeper and more real than films like "Remember the Titans" and "Varsity Blues," it also shows more humor and vitality than "Any Given Sunday" and is regarded by some as one of the best sports movies of all time. 
The widescreen DVD of "Friday Night Lights" presents the film dearly, and any player with Dolby Surround Sound will get a workout from the bass­heavy and rousing soundtrack. There are several worthwhile extras on the DVD, including a documentary on the real 1988 Permian Panthers and an extended interview with Tim McGraw detailing his thoughts on acting versus singing. 
As is so often true with foote ball, when the lights an~ turned on, the intensity ramps up, the stakes are raised and emotion 

-------------. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 13 
Tuesday, September 5, 2006 
MOVIE REVIEW 
1 Sunshine' blends drama, humor with heart 
By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
"Little Miss Sunshine" almost perfectly meshes the dysfunctional family drama with a road trip comedy. 
The focus of the movie is on the Hoover family road trip from Albuquerque, N.M. to Redondo Beach, Calif. where seven year old Olive (Abigail Breslin, 'Haising Helen') is set to compete in the Little Miss Sunshine beauty pageant. 
Along for the ride is Olive's father, 
Little Miss Sunshine
Hichard (Greg funny and offbeat Kinnear, "The 
events with tender Matador"), a motiva­moments, but they tional speaker who is never linger too trying to sell his long in the senti­"nine-step program" Directors: Jonathan Dayton and mental territory. 
Valerie Faris 

for success. Also First-time 
Writer: Michael Arndt

among . Olive's screenwriter 
Starring: Greg Kinnear, Toni Collette, 
entourage are her Michael Arndt 
Steve Carrell, Abigail Breslin 
perpetually exasper­demonstrates how diet of take-out fried chicken and a huge difference of opinion, the Hoovers agree to drive Olive, in their beat-up Volkswagon van, which they wind up hilariously pushing for much of the movie. The two-day journey pushes the family to the limits and ultimately defmes the difference between being a loser and tasting victory. 
The husband-and-wife directing team of Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris (who have not directed much besides music videos) don't miss a beat, balanc­ing the eccentrici­ty and darkly 

pageant is absolutely priceless. 
The pursuit of happiness is the main theme, along with sidebar discussions about what separates winners from los­ers. Grandpa's philosophy is the one the film adopts-"A real loser isn't someone who doesn't win. A real loser is someone so afraid of not winning that they don't even try." 
The world would look upon the Hoovers as a bunch of losers, but they want to be winners. More importantly, they want to think of themselves as win­ners. Despite the indie-film stereotypes in the character profiles, the actors find the humanity in their roles and stick to it through every joke and tragedy. 

Much of the story is predictable, but not what happens when Olive takes the stage at the beauty pageant. This is not just a surprise, but also an epiphany. Suffering may be part of the human con­dition, but happiness can triumph at the strangest moment. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
ated and overworked mother, Sheryl (Toni Collette, 'In Her Shoes') and her brother, Dwayne (Paul Dano, 'Girl Next Door'), who has taken a vow of silence (he hasn't spoken in nine months) until he gets in the Air Force Academy. 
Completing the dysfunctional family are Uncle Frank (Steve Carell, '40 Year Old Virgin'), a gay Proust scholar who recently tried to take his own life, and the porn-loving Grandpa (Alan Arkin, 'Grosse Point Blank') who was evicted from a retirement home for snorting heroin, a habit he continues without the family knowing. 
Despite constant bickering, a steady perfection is found 
in simplicity. For this story and these characters Arndt delivers the perfect ending. His screen­play has something going on almost every minute and each scene flows smoothly into the next. 
The performances are excellent, and in the end, all of the characters are incredi­bly endearing. Kinnear has a lightweight presence, but shows surprising poignan­cy as the motivational guru who can't motivate anybody. Carel! is incredibly pretentious as the cynical ex-professor, and his approach to dry humor serves the film well. Breslin is adorable as little Olive and the ending scene at the beauty 
CD REVIEW 
Spektor keeps 1 Hope' alive in latest release 
By MICHELLE FORDICE 
Scene Critic 
"Begin to Hope" Regina Spektor unites her anti-folk association and new place on a major label (Sire Records) into a polished and appealing, but still quirky album. 
She takes advantage of her new resources without losing the originality and spontaneity of her music. Spektor has maintained a fragile balance between her classical upbringing, eccentricity and intel­ligence, and she has not lost her footing in her latest album, "Begin to Hope." 
Spektor's music is nothing if not diverse. She has been compared to everyone from Billie Holiday to Tori Amos, but her sounds is really her own. 
She has the range of any jazz singer (sometimes exploring all the timbers and vibratos of her voice over the course of a few measures), but she unashamedly beat boxes like any hip-hop artist. 
While her fingers contain thfl ability to play Chopin, she doesn't hesitate to grab a drumstick and start banging on her stool if it suits her. Spektor mixes higher learning with thfl day to day, onfl moment singing about only reading Shakespeare and the next only "the backs of cereal boxes." 
Furthermore, unlike many songwriters, Spektor does not write her lyrics as small autobiographies, but instead as glimpses into fictional stories and character studies. 
The first four songs of "Begin to Hope" are most likely to become poplar listens. Backed by some synthetic touches, Spektor playfully scats and jumps her way through "Fidelity," probably the most romantic song on the album. 
"Better" is a broad open song that takes advantage of both electric guitar and per­cussion. "Samson," a tender balled recre­ated from her self-released album "Songs," clashes the well-known Bible story with modern elements of Wonder Bread, creating a song that is alluring and amusing. 
The second half of the album recalls Spektor's ability to jump across genres. 
"Hotel Song" is a surreal depiction of a hotel love affair as the speaker cries, "I have dreams of orca whales and owls/But I wake up in fear." 
"!\pres Moi," the first released song to inelude Spektor's native Russian, has a thunderous and 

,-------------------,r=============ii 
stern sense to it, regina spektor reflected in
Regina Spektor 
Spektor's steady beating voice and 
heavy piano. "Field Below" 
Begin to Hope 

and "20 Years of Snow" display Spektor's talent for voice and piano, 
Sire Records 

_________.__,I 
the second flowing off of building 
Recommended tracks: 'Apres Moi, 'Summer in the City.' arpeggios. 
"That Time" is an extremely simple song, but its cyclic melody and surprising and somewhat arbitrary lyric choices make it grow on you. The dissonant subject matter (sud­denly switching from energetic cries of "so sweet and JUI-cy" to "remember when you OD'ed?") at the end is at first jarring, but on second glance is an honest reflection of life's series of random choices interrupted by moments of meaning and importance. 
Spektor culminates with "Summer in the City," twisting what would be a predictable love song, in classic Spektor fashion, until it has more of an edge and challenges the listener to change their expectations. 
Long time fans do not have to worry; Spektor's voice and piano are not over­shadowed by new instrumentation. "Begin to Hope" is an experiment with making something more unified and approach­able. 



It may not be as ranged as her pmvious large release "Soviet Kitsch." or as jazzy as "11: 1," but it is much more refined. 
Spektor does not back away from her eccentric feel. Sometimes this becomes overwhelming. threatening to make all her songs sound similar. Yet, relativfl to most of the popular music flowing out or the music industry, Spektor's album is a refreshing release. 
It can be honest, quirky, and theatrical, while still being appealing and catchy. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 
.------------------------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 5, 2006 
MLB 

Utley wins it in the tenth; Rocket hurt in loss 
jam, striking out pinch-hitter
Clemens day-to-day 
David Dellucci and retiringafter leaving game pinch-hitter Jose Hernandez on a pop-up to first base to sendwith a strained groin the game into extra innings. 
"We're not going to let him hit 
one out of the park," Astros Associated Press 
manager Phil Garner said. PHILADELPHIA-Chase Utley feels at ease in the playoff push. Twins 2, Devil Rays 1 
Utley's home run with two Boof Bonser made his first outs in the lOth inning gave the start in his hometown something Philadelphia Phillies a 3-2 win special. over Houston on Monday, their Bonser allowed one run in 6 first over the Astros in more 1-3 innings and Rondell White than two years. hit a go-ahead two-run homer to 
"I think it's pretty relaxed help Minnesota beat Tampa Bay around here," Utley said. "We're on Monday, continuing the having a great time. We're play­Twins' domination of the Devil ing great baseball so I think that Rays. helps. I don't feel any pressure "You never know what's going around here." to happen, of course, coming 
Roger Clemens was long gone home, pitching in front of a lot by the time this one ended, of friends," Twins manager Ron forced out of his 15th start of Gardenhire said. "I think he's the season with a strained right past that stuff. He's been in con­groin. The Astros said the 44-trol of himself pretty good." year-old right-hander is day-to­Bonser (4-5) allowed five hits day. and had six strikeouts. There 
After both teams wasted were a number of fans who had opportunities to win late in the Boof signs at the game. game, Utley hit his 25th homer "I wasn't really looking up in to right off Dave Borkowski (1-the stands because I'm sure I'd 2). The second baseman was pick somebody out and started mobbed by his teammates and laughing or something," Bonser helped the Phillies snap a 12-said. "It's nice to finally get a game losing streak to Houston chance to pitch in front of the that dated back to May 18, home crowd." 2003. Tampa Bay manager Joe 
"I guess that's. how you beat Maddon was impressed with them," Phillies manager Charlie Bonser's command of all his Manuel said. pitches. 
Rick White (3-1) pitched a "He has a nice demeanor on scoreless 1Oth for the win, retir­the mound," Maddon said. "A ing the final two batters he typical Minnesota pitcher, he faced to leave a runner stranded does not walk people. If you look on third. The Phillies entered 1 at them, they're very good at not 1-2 games back of San Diego in walking. You have to earn what the NL wild-card standings. you get from that group." 
Clemens, 6-4 with a 2.27 ERA, Bonser departed after center gave up one run, struck out six fielder Torii Hunter made a and walked two. Clemens felt leaping catch at the wall on something on the Kevin Witt's drive next-to-last pitch leading off the
"We're having a great
he threw in the seventh. 
fifth inning. time. We're playing "I lost it for a 
"I feel better. great baseball, so I minute," Hunter The tenderness I said. "I knew it
think that helps." 

felt has relaxed," was hit pretty far. he said. ''I'm still I went up and on for Saturday Chase Utley tried to make unless something Phillies second baseman something hap­changes. We'll pen." give it a chance Trailing 1-0 in to heal and see what happens." the seventh, White gave the 
Charlton Jimerson hit a pinch­Twins the lead with a shot to left hit home run in his first major­off Tim Corcoran ( 4-7). league at-bat for the Astros and "I wanted to bounce it," Ryan Howard hit his major Corcoran said of the home run league-leading 53rd homer for pitch. "I felt like he was going to the Phillies. be over-aggressive and swing at 
Howard earned some surpris­anything like that. I left it up. It ing respect leading off the ninth looked like a ball off the plate, when Chad Qualls intentionally but that's what he was looking walked him. But Qualls worked for and he jumped at it." out of a bases-loaded, one-out It was White's first career homer at Tropicana Field, com­ing in his 61st at-bat. The 12­year veteran has now homered in every major-league park he has played in except Mile High Stadium in Denver. 
Marlins 8, Diamondbacks 5 
For a team that overcame an 11-31 start, a five-run deficit was nothing. 
The resilient Florida Marlins became the first club in major­league history to climb above .500 after being 20 games under, rallying Monday to beat the reeling Arizona Diamondbacks. 
"I don't think we're surprised at what we're doing," closer Joe Borowski said. "But I'm sure everybody else is shocked." 
Joe Borchard's three-run homer capped a six-run sixth inning against the Diamondbacks, who have lost six in a row despite leading in each of the past five games. 
With four consecutive victo­ries, the Marlins (69-68) have a winning record for the first time. They were 11-31 on May 21. 
Florida, which has the youngest team and lowest pay­roll in the major leagues, began the day trailing NL wild-card leader San Diego by two games. 
"It's incredible," Borchard said. "We're playing for some­thing very important, and every single one of us wants it badly. Why not? We've got a shot at this thing." 
The Diamondbacks, fading from the playoff picture, have lost 14-of-17 to fall nine games below .500 for the first time. 
"It's a terrible time to go in a slump as a team," third base­man Chad Tracy said. "We pret­ty much have to win out the rest of the year to have a chance. I think everybody knows that." 
Florida, starting a 10-game homestand following a weekend sweep at Milwaukee, trailed 4-0 after one inning and 5-0 after five. 
"It looked like we were still in Milwaukee -that's how bad we looked," Borowski said. "Before you knew it, we were leading 6­5." 
Dan Uggla capped the scoring with a two-run homer, his 22nd, to break Jell" Conine's franchise record for HBI by a rookie with 
81. Uggla also made a key play on the basepaths and twice robbed Arizona of hits with div­ing stops at second base. 
Pirates 5, Cubs 4 
Carlos Zambrano has been the ace of the Chicago Cubs' beleagured pitching staff all sea­son. Now his back is paying the price. 

Xavier Nady's three-run dou­ble capped a four-run first inning against an injured Zambrano and the Pittsburgh Pirates held off the Chicago Cubs 5-4 on Monday. 
Zambrano left the game in the second with lower back stiffness and will get an MRI Tuesday. The 25-year-old has had prob­lems with his lower back in the past but this is the first such instance this season. 
"I couldn't throw today," Zambrano said. "I couldn't bend today, and as a pitcher, you have to bend as much as possible to get the strike zone and to get your command. If you throw straight, you let your pitches go high and that's what happened today." 
It was the shortest outing of his career. After a meeting with the trainer on the mound, Zambrano {14-6) left the game trailing 5-0. He gave up four earned runs, four hits and four walks and lost for the frrst time in five starts. Zambrano hasn't missed a start, has thrown 193 innings this season and has been the only constant in the rotation. 
Zambrano said he requested the MRI but he didn't feel any­thing more serious that muscle· tightness and spasms. If he were to go on the DL, he would join teammates Mark Prior and Kerry Wood, who have missed most of the season with injuries. 
"There are certain things that we look for," Cubs trainer Mark O'Neal said. "It seems like it's all muscular. He's not having some of the other symptoms you would be worried about with significant disc injuries." 
The Pirates have won four straight against the Cubs in a battle of the NL's two worst teams and are just a half-game back of the Cubs for fifth place in the NL Central. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Rent a home NO football week-2 rooms in private home w/sepa-AN ACTUAL ABOVE-AVERAGE TOP$ PAID FOR NO FOOTBALL ends. 574-784-8638. rate entrance for football weekends. ABIDING FAN DESPERATELY TKTS 289-9280 
FoR SALE Shared bath. Close to NO. 574-259· TICKETS NEEDS FOOTBALL TIX. ANY OR 2-6 BDRM HOMES & ROOMS 8603. ALL GAMES. LOCAL CALL 654­Condo for sale 2 bdrm twnhse call NEAR CAMPUS 0169. 
PERSONAL

269-445-2765 AVAILABLE FOR NOW LEASING FOR 2007-2008 FOR SALE: NO TICKETS. 232­
FOOTBALL WEEKENDS & STADIUM CLUB CONDOMINIUMS 0964 00 NO alum seeks multiple ND/PSU Investment homes for sale near SCHOOL YEAR. Spacious 2bdrm 2ba. tix for my bachelor party trip. Will UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do NO. 866-521-8989. 574-329-0308 Washer/Dryer. Call Susan Miller at Need 4 ND-PSU tix -75 alum seeks pay top$$! Please help! Contact not go it alone. If you or someone 
243-7530. 4 for PSU game 9/9/06. Pis call714 Derek at you love needs confidential support New Lodging for NO home games 523 0601 or email: dengelkemeyer@ hotmail.com or assistance, please call Sr. Sue 2-bedrm apt above Mishawaka bar BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam-aherenda@ comcast.net Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more
FoR RENT 
Dates avail. -call 360-8165 pus homes & weekend rentals. WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. information, see our bi-weekly ad in Bluegoldrentals.com Need NO tix & parking pass all TOP DOLLAR PAID. The Observer. 
2-3-4 bdrms. Share w/FRIENDS. Woodbridge Condominiums is close home games. 574-276-8507. NOBODY WILL PAY MORE. 574· 50% off dep. if rented by 10/1. 255-enough to walk to NO. B&B (cont.) 2 night min. 3.3 mi. to 288-2726. www.ndgamedayroom.com 7000. Why rent? NO 272-6305 A BUSINESSMAN PAYING TOP$$ 
Own this for $62,900! Contact FOR SEASON TIX OR INDIVID-FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TICK-Super Bowl Odds: NO Games 1-3M. 3 Bdrms priv. Prudential One Realty or Cherie Rental homes 3-6 bdrms. Close to UAL GAMES. CALL MARK 574-ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232-Indianapolis Colts: 1000-1 homes 574-273-2241 TeRoller at 284-2600. NO. Call Gary 574-993-2208. 277-1659. 2378. New York Jets: EVEN 

-, 

OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, September 5, 2006 CoMriuo FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 15 



NCAA Men's Soccer Top 20 
team record previou~ 
1 Maryland 19-4-2 1 2 Connecticut 16-3-2 g 3 New Mexico 18-2-3 2 4 Virginia 12-5-3 11 5 North Carolina 17-4-3 7 5 Clemson 15-6-3 3 7 Southern Methodist 14-6-3 3 8 Creighton 15-5-3 6 9 Akron 18-1-4 5 10 UClA 12-5-3 19 11 California 14-4-3 8 12 Indiana 13-3-6 17 13 Penn State 13-7-2 10 14 Duke 12-5·3; 16 
15 NOTRE DAME 12-8-3 15 16 Wake forest 13-8-2 12 17 St. John's 11-6-5 13 18 South Florida 13·6·2 RV 19 Cal State Northridge 15-4-3 13 20 Santa Clara 13-6-3 20 

NCAA Women's Soccer Top 20 
team  record  previous  
1  Portland  23·0-2  1  
2  UClA  22·2-2  3  
3  Penn State  23·0·2  2  
4  Norlh CaroIIna  23·1-1  5  
5  NOTRE DAME  22-3-0  6  
6  Florida State  20·4-1  4  
7  Santa Clara  7  
8  VIrginia  
9  Texas A&M  
10  California  
10  Boston College  
12  Duke  
13  llinols·  
14  Tennessee  
15  Cal Stale Fullerton  
16  Connetlttut  

1 
sams•••
2 Jack NiCllaus 3 BenHogail 4 Arnold Palmer 5 Tiger Woods & Byron Neison 7 Billy Casper 
8 WallerHagen 
9 Cary Middlecoff 10 Gene Saruen 11 Tom Watson 12 lloyd Mangrum 13 Horton Smith 14 Jimmy Demaret 15 Harry CIJ(Jper 16 leo Diegel 11 Gene littler 18 Phil Mickelson 19 Paul Runyan zo Vijay Singh 

around the dial 
TENNIS 
U.S. Open, 11 a.m., 7 p.m., USA 
MLB 

Chicago White Sox at Boston, 7:05 p.m., CSN 
PGA TouR 

Associated Press 
NORTON -What began as a rally quickly turned into a rout for Tiger Woods, who matched the lowest final round of his career Monday in the Deutsche Bank Championship to win for the fifth straight time on the PGA Tour. 
With a splendid array of shots and key putts, Woods crushed Vijay Singh's spirit on his way to an 8-under 63, turning a three-shot deficit into a two-shot victo­ry for his longest winning streak in a season. 
The streak began in July with a victory in the British Open, his first since his father died in May. It con­tinued on a sunny afternoon outside Boston with some of his best golf of the year and allowed him to avenge a loss to Singh at this tourna­ment two years ago. 
Woods needed only three holes to erase the deficit, including a, 7-iron over a marsh and into 10 feet for eagle at No. 2. He pulled ahead with a 25-foot birdie putt at No. 5, and he seized control with a 3-wood from 266 yards, a piercing shot into a gentle breeze that banged into the slope fronting the green and stopped 10 feet away for another eagle. 
He played his first seven holes in 6 under par, and Singh never got closer than 

two shots the rest of the way. 
Singh beat him two years ago to end Woods' five-year reign atop the world rank­ing. The 43-year-old Fijian closed with a 68, not his best golf but ordinarily enough to win with a three­shot lead in swirling breezes. 
But not against Woods, and certainly not when the world's No. 1 player is on this kind of a roll. 
"Tiger played unbeliev­able," Singh said. "He made two eagles and just took it away." 
Byron Nelson won 11 straight tournaments in 1945, a streak regarded as one of the most untouch­able in sports. Woods won six straight at the end of 1999 and the start of 2000, and Ben Hogan won six in a row in 1948. 
Woods now takes a week off before heading to England for the HSBC World Match Play Championship, followed by the Ryder Cup. His next PGA Tour start will be the American Express Championship outside London at the end of September. 
He still isn't even halfway home to Nelson's hallowed mark, but he surpassed Lord Byron in one category with his 53rd victory, mov­ing into fifth place alone on the career list. 

IN BRIEF 
Roddick defeats Becker to 
advance to quarterfinals 
NEW YORK -Like a party carry­ing on after the guest of honor has left, the U.S. Open proceeded Monday without Andre Agassi, the most obvious evidence of which was when a fan cried out, "Do it for Andre!" during Andy Roddick's fourth-round match. 
Roddick obliged, putting together a 6-3, 6-4, 6-3 victory over Benjamin Becker, the German qualifier who ended Agassi's career by beating him the day before. 
With another legend of the game, new coach Jimmy Connors, in his guest box, Roddick reached the quarterfinals with the help of 19 aces and zero double-faults. His showing here, so far, is a step for­ward for the 2003 U.S. Open champi­on, who lost in the first round a year ago and struggled this season until his current 10-match winning streak. 
Vinatieri declares himself 
ready to play in opener 
INDIANAPOLIS -Adam Vinatieri slipped a brace onto his non-kicking foot Monday, then calmly pronounced himself ready to play. 
Five days after the most discussed foot in Indianapolis become a head­line topic, Vinatieri ended the discus­sion about his availability for the Colts' season opener Sunday at New York. He says he'll play. 
"I feel pretty good, actually," he said in his first comments since hurt­ing the foot last month. ''I'm getting some work in this week, and I'll be ready to go for the weekend." 
Vinatieri was Indy's biggest offsea­son acquisition. 
The Colts signed the NFL's best clutch kicker to a five-year contract worth $12 million in March, bringing him in to replace Mike Vanderjagt, the NFL's most accurate kicker. Vanderjagt signed as a free agent with Dallas. 

Charf!ers linebacker Foley
expecled to miss season 
SAN DIEGO -Chargers linebacker Steve Foley will miss the season after being shot near his suburban home by an off-duty police officer. 
Foley was placed on the non-football injured reserve list on Monday, a day after he was shot by an off-duty Coronado officer and a week before the Chargers open at Oakland. 
The outside linebacker, who was being counted on to help anchor the toughest run defense in the NFL, remained hospi­talized in stable condition, according to his agent, David Levine. 
Because it wasn't a football injury, the Chargers were letting Levine provide medical updates. 
But Levine said information remained sketchy, and his access to Foley had been limited. On Sunday, Levine said he was told Foley was shot three times, in the arm, leg and chest. On Monday, he said he wasn't certain where Foley was shot. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, September 5, 2006 
WNBA FINALS 
Griffith leading with passion and attitude 
Sacramento center has team on brink of second straight title 
Associated Press 
When Yolanda Griffith kicked a water cooler and stalked out of practic.e late in the season, Sacramento Monarchs coach John Whisenant fined her ­yet he seemed secretly pleased. 
Perhaps that's because the coach recognizes his own pas­sion in his veteran center. After all, Griffith was angry because of Whisenant's biting instruction. 
These two ferocious competi­tors might disagree at times, but they're united by a com­mon cause. They have willed the unsung, star-free Monarchs to the brink of their second WNBA championship with a devotion to defense and an uncompromising attitude that sometimes comes out a little rough. 
After four successful seasons together in Sacramento, Whisenant said he "couldn't have a better" team leader. 
"There's not a better one for my philosophy, for the way I preach defense, team play, unselfishness -hard-nosed, tough, never-say-die," Whisenant said. "There's not one that I know out there in the WNBA like her. I lucked out when I got Yolanda." 
With Griffith scoring 15 points in just 17 minutes to rest her arthritic 36-year-old knees, the Monarchs trounced Detroit 89-69 Sunday in Game 3 of the WNBA finals. Sacramento can close out the series Wednesday night at home. 
Though Whisenant believes he was lucky to inherit a star player with Griffith's mental focus, she also was fortunate when the Maloof brothers pro­moted their friend and former business consultant from New Mexico midway through the 2003 season to replace Maura McHugh. 
The Monarchs had won just one playoff series in Griffith's first four seasons with the club, missing the postseason entirely in the previous season, but -Whisenant thought he knew how to fix that. 
The coach figured his roster would thrive playing JJhysical defense, so he shifted the focus to aggressive, cerebral de fen­sive play. Griffith always loved such an approach, but rarely played it with Sacramento and her winter club in Russia. 
"He did a great job getting us focused on what's really impor­tant," Griffith said. "We never played defense like this before he got here. We got a new commitment." 
Sacramento has reached the Western Conference finals in all four of Whisenant's postsea­sons with the club, breaking through last season to win the franchise's first title. Their ros­ter of solid role players took the league by surprise, win­ning a WNBA title without a true offensive star. 
The Monarchs have faced far more obstacles this season, however. Whisenant worked through distractions ranging from his mother's death to the Maloofs' interest in interview­ing him for the Sacramento Kings' coaching vacancy, while Griffith managed the constant pain from her swollen joints ­and her frustrations when the Monarchs got off to a slow start. 
"Everything started coming together (when) Coach came back and said, 'You play my defense. You don't play my defense, you don't play,"' Griffith said. "We knew Coach was back.... We knew, once everybody got back, what kind of team we were going to be." 
Sacramento hit its stride shortly before the playoffs, and has been nearly unbeatable for three weeks. The Monarchs swept their first two postsea­son series before outplaying the Shock in perhaps 11 of the finals' 12 quarters so far. 


0 
A 
dine drink + be stylish 
Seeking energetic Bartender, Line Cook, Dishwasher, Food Runner, Server and Cocktail Server, Bus and Host To be on the ground floor of New Upbeat Asian Fusion Restaurant/Bar In Downtown South Bend. Fax Resume 232-3799 Apply in Person 213 N. Main St. 


Tuesday, September 5, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

c1t1groupJ ~ 
corporate and investment banking 

"I feel privileged to work with the people in my team. It is one of the most exceptional and talented groups of people I have ever, and no doubt will ever, come across. Working with them has allowed me to progress significantly in my understanding of financial analysis as well as my knowledge of specific industry sectors." 
ALAN CHOI, ANALYST 
Investment Banking 
Corporate Banking 
Sales & Trading 
Public Finance 
Finance 


t 


Please join us for our company presentation: DATE: Tuesday, September 5th, 2006 VENUE: Flanner Hall, Room 114 TIME: 6:00 pm 
Please consult with your Career Services Department for interview dates and resume submission deadlines 
apply online at www.oncampus.citigroup.com 

© 2006 Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Member SIPC. CITIGROUP and the Umbrella Device are trademarks and service marks of Citigroup Inc. or its affiliates and are used and registered throughout the world. Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Citibank are affiliated companies under the common control of Citigroup. Citibank and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. are equal opportunity employers M/F/D/V. 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, September 5, 2006 
U.S. OPEN 
Maureslllo needs three sets to defeat unseeded Williallls 
Roddick defeats Becker in straight sets a day after Agassi's exit 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Gasping for breath after long exchanges, Serena Williams ran out of energy and shots against Amelie Mauresmo. 
In a showdown between two women who've been ranked No. 1 and own a total of nine Grand Slam titles, the top-seed­ed Mauresmo won nine of the last 12 points Monday night to beat the unseeded Williams 6­4, 0-6, 6-2 and reach the U.S. Open quarterfinals. 
After a tight first set, Williams rolled through the second and looked as if nothing could prevent her from improv­ing her career record against Mauresmo to 10-1. But the out­come turned in the sixth game of the final set, when a 35­stroke exchange ended with Williams pushing a backhand into the net, then pausing for air. That sent Mauresmo on her way to a key break, and Williams wouldn't win another game. 
On match point, they engaged in a 24-stroke rally that Mauresmo ended with a sharply angled volley Williams couldn't get to in time. 
Williams came to Flushing Meadows having played only 12 matches all season because of a six-month break she used to rehab her surgically repaired left knee and to refresh herself mentally, too. During the time off, Williams tumbled out of the top 100 in the rankings, and needed a wild-card invitation to play at the Open. 
If there have been questions about Williams' health and preparation of late, Mauresmo has been steadily erasing the doubts about her mental tough­ness. She didn't win any of her first 31 Grand Slam tourna­ments, but she's now closing in on her third such champi­onship this year, after the Australian Open and Wimbledon. 
"The experience I've got real­ly helped me tonight," Mauresmo said. "It's starting to show a little bit on the court." 
That was certainly the case the way she hung in there after a disastrous second set. 
Mauresmo lost 20 of the set's first 26 points and finished with one winner. But she regrouped in the third, while seven-time major champion Williams appeared to tire, and the Frenchwoman began con­trolling the tempo the way she had early. 
Mauresmo wrong-footed Williams with groundstrokes and gave her fits by mixing speeds and spins. One example: Mauresmo broke to end the first set by launching a high­bouncing shot that Williams' backhand couldn't handle, sail­ing the ball wide. 
With that, Mauresmo raised a fist, clenched her jaw and jogged to her sideline seat. Williams walked over slowly, her sister Venus (sidelined with a wrist injury) and mother looking on from the guest box, while her father snapped pho­tos from elsewhere in the stands. 
There was a whole different scene in the second set, when Williams played some standout defense. It was the strongest rebuttal yet to those who've wondered whether Williams is in good enough shape to com­pete with the best. 
As if to make a point, Williams walked around the far side of the net when the play­ers switched sides after the first game of each set; she did­n't take advantage, as Mauresmo did, of the chance to pause for a sip of water or an extra breath by her seat. 
Now Mauresmo plays No. 12 Dinara Safina, whose path to the final eight hasn't included a match against a seeded player. 
The match under the lights at Arthur Ashe Stadium brought back some electricity to a tour­nament that felt a bit Monday afternoon like a party carrying on after the guest of honor has left. The U.S. Open did indeed proceed without Andre Agassi, although a fan cried out, "Do it for Andre!" during Andy Roddick's fourth-round match. 
Roddick obliged, putting together a 6-3, 6-4, 6-3 victory over Benjamin Becker, the German qualifier who ended Agassi's career the day before. 
Roddick and No. 5 James Blake, whose fourth-round match against No. 12 Tomas Berdych is Tuesday, are the only U.S. men left in the tour­nament. No. 18 Robby Ginepri bowed out with a 7-6 (1). 6-4, 3-6, 3-6, 7-6 (1) loss to No. 14 Tommy Haas. 

Haas next faces 2000 Open champion Marat Salin, Safina's older brother. Other past win­ners still in it are Lindsay Davenport and Justine Henin­Hardenne, who set up a quar­terfinal clash with straight-set wins. But 2004 Open champion Svetlana Kuznetsova is gone after losing to No. 19 Jelena Jankovic 6-7 (5) 6-3, 6-2. Also into the quarterfinals were No. 3 Maria Sharapova, who lost the first three games before eliminating No. 24 Li Na of China 6-4, 6-2 along with 2004 runner-up Elena Dementieva. 
Roddick won the 2003 Open but lost in the first round last year, part of a dismal stretch that briefly dropped him out of the top 10. Now he has Jimmy Connors as his coach and a 10­match winning streak. 
"If you can't draw motivation from six months of bad results," Roddick said, "then you're not going to draw it from much." 
His next foe is 2001 U.S. Open champion Lleyton Hewitt or No. 25 Richard Gasquet, who were to meet in Monday night's last match on Ashe. That main court was the scene of Agassi's last hurrah, a four­set defeat against the unher­alded and 112th-ranked Becker on Sunday. 

"It was tough yesterday for me to enjoy it, because it was tough for me to accept that I deserved to be the last guy that Agassi played," said Becker, competing in his second major. "It's been a pretty, pretty amaz­ing trip for me." 


University ofNotre Dame's Study Abroad Program in 
Angers, France 
"Should I stay or should I go?" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Angers' Program Coordinator and returnees of the program 
Thursday, September 7, 2006 7:30PM 229 Hayes Healey 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2006 Academic Year 2007-2008 Fall 2007 -Spring 2008 


DAYS/NIGHTS DELIVERY DRIVERS SANDWICH MAKERS" 
54570 N. IRONWOOD DR. 
574.277.8500 JIMMYJOHNS.COM 


Tuesday, September 5, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
P&G 
Get to Know Procter & Gamble Finance and Marketing 
Procter & Gamble is the world's-leading consumer products company. 
Three billion times a day, P&G brands touch the lives of people around the world. 
All Majors Welcome 
Tuesday, September 5th CCE-McKenna Hall Room 212 7:30-9:30 

Touching lives, improving life_ P&G 
S1z~}e'n_e (Sizzlelini@) ­
On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95! A sizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B~-Iefie (Bellini) ­
A frosty raspben-y; green apple or peach Italian work of art for $2 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­Visit us EVERY Tuesday fotA 
lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelini@ Bellini Tuesdays! 

ALlAN, KliT:CHEN 
e 
Unmistakably Italian \,Unbelievably Good 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka 574..271-1692 
Reservations Accepted 
NFL 

Revamped Giants 'D' ready for Peyton 

Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. ­For more than a month, Antonio Pierce has studied videotapes of Peyton Manning and the Indianapolis Colts offense as if he was preparing for a test. 
For every snippet of tape that the New York Giants middle linebacker watched on the Colts quarterback, notes were taken and memories were stored. 
When the Colts have a first down, they have a tendency to do this. On second and short, they do that. When they are in this personnel package or on third down, Manning and com­pany do whatever. 
Not only do the Giants need to know tendencies, they have to watch Manning. He can drive defenses nuts with a no-huddle offense. He is constantly moving people at the line, pointing in different directions and seem­ingly calling audi­bles for 20 sec­

"We have guys that 
onds before snap­Indianapolis for ping the ball. played over there, the first three ".It's a poker quarters.
and some is real and 
match because a New York does 
lot of times, it's some is not. We have not run a 3-4 nothing," Pierce to read his cards." defense like the ·said. "We have Steelers, but it guys that played employs a 3-4
Antonio Pierce 
over there, and look quite often. 
Giants linebacker 
some is real and some is not. We have to read his cards." 
The final examination for Pierce and a revamped Giants defense is scheduled for Sunday night, when New York will open the regular season against the Colts in the so-called Manning Bowl, the contest that will fea­ture Peyton against little broth­er Eli, the Giants quarterback. 
"T.hey have been the best offense in the league for anum­ber of years," Pro Bowl defense end Osi Umenyiora said. "It looks like we've improved our defense, but nobody is talking about completely shutting them down. To be able to contain them would be good." 
While the Giants defense only gave up two touchdowns in a perfect preseason, there are a lot of areas that will be tested. 
The middle of the defensive line is new with Fred Robbins and rookie Barry Cofield at the tackles. The secondary has three new faces. The Wills ­Allen and Peterson -are gone at cornerback, replaced by vet­eran Sam Madison and second­year pro Corey Webster. Veteran Will Demps was signed as a free agent to take over at safety from Brent Alexander. 

R.W. McQuarters is the new nickel back. 
Safety Gibril Wilson, the only starter in the secondary return­ing from last year, said that the Giants have to do several things to limit the Colts. They can't let Indianapolis run the ball much. They have to put pressure on Peyton Manning and they need to slow down the Colts receivers at the line of scrimmage. 
The defense also has to keep Manning guessing, Wilson said. 
"This is one of the weeks you have to be at your best," Wilson said. "Mentally, you have to dis­guise, show false looks. You have to have him think that we're in one defense and be in something totally different." 
One of the videotapes that the Giants have studied closely is the Pittsburgh Steelers' 21-18 win over the Colts in the AFC semifinals. The Super Bowl champions crushed the pocket 
on Manning in blanking 
"You have to 

rattle that quar­terback," said Pierce, who also noted that San Diego did a good job of that in handing the Colts their first loss in week 14 last season. 
If Manning is allowed to sit back in the pocket, he will pick apart the defense. Pierce also noted that the Giants can't get too cute b;t moving too much on defense. Manning will find the hole and make the big play. 
Demps, who played against Peyton Manning several times while with Baltimore, thinks the Giants are ready. 
"We just have to play our game," he said. "We can't play into their game. We know he is going to audible at the line. He wants to see the defense real early so he is going to hold until there are five seconds on the play clock. We can't show our hand early. It's a chess match. We have to eliminate the big plays for them and they have to make the big plays." 
The one advantage the defense has is that it has worked against the Giants' high-powered offense through­out training camp. 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 5, 2006 
NFL 
After being shot by police officer, Foley will miss season 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -Chargers line­backer Steve Foley will miss the season after being shot near his suburban home by an off-duty police officer. 
Foley was placed on the non­football injured reserve list on Monday, a day after he was shot by an off-duty Coronado officer and a week before the Chargers open at Oakland. 
Chargers general manager 
A.J. Smith said Foley won't be paid this season. Foley's base pay is $775,000, and it's believed he was due a roster bonus of $875,000. 
The outside linebacker, who was being counted on to help anchor the toughest run defense in the NFL. remained hospitalized in stable condi­
"We felt in the best 

tion, according Schottenheimer. to his agent, interest of[Steve Trainer James David Levine. Collins and the
Foley] and the team.

Because it Chargers secu­
that he would be out of

wasn't a foot­rity director, ball injury, the action for the year." Dick Lewis, also Chargers were were seen at letting Levine the hospital.
A.J. Smith

provide med-"I would say
ical updates. Chargers general manager he's doing pret­
enough information that I had to make a football decision," Smith said. "I had to ask, 'What's the timetable?' We felt in the best interest of him and the team, that he would be out of action for the year. 
"Obviously this is a big blow," Smith said. "It's a tragedy in itself, as far as the player is concerned. And it's a blow to our football team." San Diego has missed the play­offs nine times in the last 10 seasons. 
In March 2005, the Chargers signed Foley to a three-year contract extension through 2009 worth roughly $10 mil­lion, including a signing bonus of more than $3 million. 
Foley was at Sharp Memorial Hospital. He was visited briefly 
on Monday by 
coach Marty 
But Levine said information remained sketchy, and his access to Foley had been limited. On Sunday, Levine said he was told Foley was shot three times, in the arm, leg and chest. On Monday, he said he wasn't certain where Foley was shot. 
Based on the medical infor­mation he was given, Smith decided to put Foley on non­football injured reserve. 
"I can't reveal all of that information except that I had 
ty well, given the circumstances," said Schottenheimer, who declined to comment on Foley's condi­tion. "It was good to get a chance to see him again. We're anxious to see him recover as quickly as possible." 
Kathy Gambito, Sharp Memorial's marketing director, said she couldn't comment because there wasn't a patient registered under the name Steve Foley. 
The Chargers were counting on Foley to rebound from last season, when he was slowed by an abdominal injury and his production fell off to 4 1/2 sacks. He had a career-high 10 sacks, which led the team. 
Foley fit perfectly in San Diego's 3-4 defense, with a nasty disposition that made him a strong pass rusher as well as a run-stopper. Last year he lined up opposite Shawne Merriman, the league's defensive rookie of the year who had a team-high 10 sacks. 
Shaun Phillips, a pass rushing specialist in his third NFL sea­son, moves into the starting line­up. He was second behind Merriman with seven saeks last year and made three starts in place of Foley. 
"We think he's pretty darn good," Smith said. "Now we need to see if he has a good all-around game." 
There was no new information released Monday about the shooting. 
The Coronado Police Department continued to refer calls to the San Diego County Sheriff's Department. Sheriff's spokesman Capt. Glenn Hevell said he dido't expect any new information to be released Monday from the homicide divi­sion, which was investigating. Hevell said he didn't know when the identity of the Coronado police ollicer would be relmlsed. 
Sheriff's ofl'icials said the shooting early Sunday occurred after the off-duty Coronado offi­cer followed a suspected drunk­en driver weaving in and out of freeway traffic at speeds up to 90 mph. Authorities said the driver nearly collided with several other vehicles. 

It was Foley's second run-in with authorities in 4 1/2 months. He was arrested April 21 on charges of resisting arrest after police said he scuffied with offi­cers. He also was booked on charges of battery on a police otlicer and public drunkenness. 
The district attorney's office reviewed that case but decided there wasn't enough evidence, spokesman Paul Levikow said Monday. 

Our new phone number: 574-258-5080 www.salonrougeinc.com 
(Inside St. Andrew's Plaza) Students receive 15% off all services Mon -Wed 
IN FLIGHT 

PHIL HUDELSON/The ObseNer 
Irish freshman Megan Fesl elevates to return a volley against Missouri during Notre Dame's 3-2 loss to the Tigers Friday at the Joyce Center. College Sports Television Network broadcast the game nationally. 

l979 2006 
Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center and The University of Notre Dame Alumni Association Present 
THE 14TH ANNUAL EMIL T. HOFMAN LECTURE 
Developmental Disorders and Autism: Hints at Paths to Treatment from the Neuroscience of Fragile X Syndrome 
Elizabeth Berry-Kravis, MD '79 Associate Professor of Pediatrics, Neurology, Biochemistry Rush University Medical Center Chicago, IL 
SEPTEMBER 9, 2006 10:00-11:00 a.m. (Begins at 10:00 a.m. Sharp) 

University of Notre Dame DeBartolo Hall, Room 101 (Before the Notre Dame-Penn State Game) 

Tuesday, September 5, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
' J:eltn• 
es including a tie for first at the 
\' ~ Notre Dame Invitational last 
fall. She plans on qualifying for continued from page 24 the LPGA Future's Tour in 
November. lege life. "They both played a competi­
"It's always difficult when you tive summer schedule," Veltri step into college and [Coach said. "They come into the fall King's) resignation came as a season well prepared to com­shock," Wetzel said. "But it's pete. They've done well in quali­been nice to have the girls· 'fying. It's Noriko's senior year around to help us out and Coach and I expect great things out of Veltri has always been really her." supportive and you need that in Last week the team met to dis-a new environment." cuss the upcoming season. And 
Veltri called Maunu and being a senior captain, Nakazki Nakazaki "role models" for outlined not only her personal Wetzel and the freshmen. hopes for the season -but also 
"I've been really impressed what she'd like to see the team with how they and the freshmen accomplish in her final year. have handled the situation," "Our goals are to be ranked in Veltri said. the top-30, a [subl-300 scoring 
"When you're in the junior average in tournaments and to national tournaments in high make it to NCAA Regionals," school, you're playing for your-Nakazki said. "We were disap­self. But in college you play for pointed when we didn't make it the team, so you can't quit last year. But those are our because your score can count goals and not Coach Holt's, so no matter what and Lisa and they're subject to change." Noriko have really helped the The Irish open the season freshmen in this area and in Sept. 11 at the Cougar Classic in managing the course out here." Charleston, S.C. 
Maunu posted a 79.81 scoring -----------­average last year, while Contact Chris Hine at Nakazaki had five top-10 finish-chine@nd.edu 
Start 
continued from page 24 
said. "But like Coach [Piane] says, every time you put on the jersey it's a big meet, so right now I'm looking for­ward to running at the National Catholic Championship I).ext week." 
The National Catholic 
Championship is one of two 
regular season races held at 
Notre Dame's Burke 
Memorial Golf Course, giving ·the Irish a big 
nence last season. including their new fresh­They finished in the top men, included both straight three of every race last sea­distance and time trials that 
son, includ­ built  up  
ing a second place finish  "We look to do well in the  slowly over the summer,  
at Regionals and third place at  Big East and then in the regional tournament.,,  culminating at about 70­80 miles per  
Nationals.  week  cur­ 
This strong  James Millar  rently.  
performance  Irish junior  "The  goal  

advantage for the rest of their season.  "Being at home is a better atmosphere, and  East and then in the region­al tourna­ 
"It's nice to  it's a lot easier to run in  ment," junior  
run on our home course," Hagerman  front ofa home crowd there for you. ,,  James Millar said. "We also want to  
said. "Being at  be in the top  
home is a bet­ter atmos­phere, and it's  Brock Hagerman Irish freshman  ten teams at nationals again."  
a  lot easier to  In order to  

run in front of a home crowd reach this goal, the Irish there for you." have to continue their sum­
This year's team also has mer workout plan to be able the added pressure of main­to run well in their meets. taining their national promi-Notre Dame's summer plan, led to a No.5 final ranking for the Irish, something they hope to maintain. 
''I'd say we look to do well in the Big 
was to start 
low and build up every week," Hagerman said. "We wanted to be in shape, but not necessarily at our top fitness level." 
The system seems to be working, according to Millar. 
"The team looks sharp right now," he said. "We real­ly feel good about our fitness for this season." 

Notre Dame begins its sea­son Friday with the Valparaiso Invitational. After the following week's National Catholic Championship, the team returns to action Sept. 29 with the Notre Dame-=--.. Invitational. 
Contact }at Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

MLB 
After scare, new tests reveal Giles has a healthy heart 
Second baseman may have been suffering from acid reflux 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Tests deter­mined that Marcus Giles has a healthy heart and he can keep playing baseball, a huge relief to the Atlanta Braves and their second baseman after he was told he might have a heart defect. 
Giles was en route to Shea Stadium on Monday evening to rejoin his teammates, who played the New York Mets in the opener of a three-game series. 
On Saturday, the scrappy infielder missed a doublehead­er against the Phillies and vis­ited a Philadelphia hospital, where he said he was told he might have a heart defect. 
He returned to Atlanta on Sunday for medical tests, and was cleared to play. 
Braves manager Bobby Cox said doctors think the problem is related to acid reflux, a common condition that is easi­ly treatable. No surgery is required. 
"He checked out fine," Cox said. "He was pretty worried. All the indications were a par­tially open valve.... Scared him to death, which it should." 
Cox said he hadn't seen Giles yet and wasn't sure when his second baseman would be able to return to the lineup. 
Giles, an NL All-Star in 2003, was batting .268 with nine homers and 51 RBis. 
Pete Orr started at second base and batted leadoff against New York. 
It's been a frightening year of health issues for Giles and his wife, Tracy. He missed 10 days in spring training follow­ing the premature birth of his daughter, Sawyur Rae, who struggled with lung problems after she was born. 
Giles and his wife have another daughter, Arringtun 
Mae, but lost a baby following a premature birth. 
On the field, the Braves were also without longtime Mets nemesis Chipper Jones, sidelined by a sore oblique muscle on his left side. Cox doesn't expect the third base­man to be able to play in the series at Shea, where Jones has had a tremendous amount of success throughout his career. 
Jones was on the disabled list last month with the same problem and has been both­ered by the injury much of the season. 
He is batting .318 with 23 home runs and 79 RBis. Willy Aybar started at third base in place of Jones again. 
The Braves also optioned right-hander Anthony Lerew to back Triple-A Richmond, two days after he was called up. 

NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS "\VANTED BUYING & TRADING ALL SEASONS ALL GAMES & LOCATIONS 


18 YEARS CONFIDENTIAL SERVICE 
CASH PAID TODAY 
Preferred Tickets 234-5650 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 5, 2006 
head position the last three became the head coach at his years at Saint Anselm in alma mater, Middlebury
Hires 
Manchester, NH, where the College in Vermont. continued from page 24 1986 Magna Cum Laude ·Anderson decided to leave 
UMass graduate also taught coaching altogether after 10 an extremely attractive courses. years at Notre Dame to pur­opportunity," Byrne said in a "I know [Byrne is] a very sue business interests, statement released by the smart and very creative guy," according to Corrigan. athletic department. "Notre Corrigan said of his long-time "[Connecticut] is a good Dame is a symbol of' athletic acquaintancn. "lie's extreme-. opportunity for Dave excellence and l know we ly hard working and he has a Cornflll," Corrigan said. "And have the student-athletns, gn~at passion for ihe game of Kevin Anderson is doing what coaches and lacrosse and he thinks is best for his fami­facilities to tnaching. ly." gBt back to "lie's a lit­Though Corrigan said
"{Fisher} is very thorough 

thn Final tle bit dif­Anderson helped run Irish 
-a hard worker, very

Four." ferent in camps this summflr, the After leav­conscientious and fits the that he has­coaching vacancies forced ing Notre bill for exactly what we n't just been Corrigan to lead a solo Irish Dame, Bymo coaching for recruiting effort. Despite the
wanted in that position." 

continued the last 18 extra work on the recruiting playing .years. I trail, Corrigan -who lacrosse for Kevin Corrigan think all believes this year's freshman several pro­those expe­class his best yet -is
Irish head coach 

fessional riences pleased with the end result. t e a m s make him "It was hard because I was throughout the 90s, before an even better coach and I'm doing all three jobs," he said. entering the business side of' really excited to have him "We spend the whole .summer the game. He was a market­back." recruiting every year, but this ing executive for Brine The additions were prompt­year I was the only one doing lacrosse equipment and two ed by the summer departures the evaluations from about other sports marketing firms of assistants Anderson and mid-July on but also the only -while running two lacrosse Cornell. one calling recruits. This just camps -before scratching at Cornell, who had been with meant Pverything was on me, his coaching itch. the Irish since late 2004, left but I worked things out with 
Byrne won the 2001 New in the middle of the summer the guys I wanted for the two Hampshire Coach of the Year to take the head position at positions." award after taking the reigns Connecticut College at Souhegan High School. lie roplacing former Irish assis­Contact Tim Dougherty at parlayed that success into the tant Dave Cambell who tdougher@nd.edu 
Song 
continued from page 24 
their Alma Mater," Weis told The Observer after his press conference Sunday. "And having been a student at this school. it went through my mind, 'Hey, why don't we do this?"' 
Weis graduated from Notre Dame in 1978. And because the Irish head coach has not the team and the students." 
Weis said his team was in favor of idea after discussing the details. The Irish have hon­ored their fans in the 'past by standing in front of the student 
·section after games -notably last season after defeating Michigan on the road and this past Saturday after beating Georgia Tech. 
But now, they will be involved 
in a more intimate manner ­right' down to singing the 
been a part of the student  · "I talked to the captains  lyrics at the same time as  
body  for  28  this summer ... and  their  class­ 
years. he was i n. i t i a I I y unaware if any­ having been a student at this school, it went  mates. "The players love being part  
thing similar had been done in the past.  through my mind, 'Hey, why don't we do this'"  of the student body," Weis said. "This is a  
That's  when  little different  
Weis contacted  Charlie Weis  place than a lot  
Dye.  Irish coach  of  other  
Dye has been  schools.  
the Notre Dame  "I  just  
Director  of  thought that as  

Bands for nine years. He also long as we're here, and the served as an arranger and com­band's here, and the students poser for the 2000 Olympic are here, you could do this." band and pops arranger for the Dye agreed that Notre Dame's Dallas Symphony. He graduated unique position as a communi­from the University of Houston ty-oriented institution makes an with a Doctorate in Music idea like singing the Alma Mater Education and a Master's in especially powerful. And as Business Administration. such, anything the Notre Dame 
"It evolved over the last year band can do to promote this I when] the team kept wanting to spirit is important in Dye's 
participate in things," Dye said in a phone interview Monday. 'They were kind of in tune with the audience, and so IWeisl called on Friday and said 'What do you think about this?' 
"I was delighted to get a call from the coach ... and I think it's a great idea to share that with 
BIG WIN 
mind. 

"We just want to try to cap­ture these couple of minutes where it's a hard fought victory and just have that bonding," Dye said. 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 


STUDENTS 

Transportation Services will be offering two Driver Training Sessions in September. 
If you have not attended a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, September lOth, at 7:00pm and at 8:00pm in Room 102 of Debartolo Hall. 
The session will last approximately 30 minutes. Please bring your drivers license and a pen 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, faculty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. See our website at: transportation.nd.edu 
Ifyou have any questions on the Driver Training sessions or the Motor Pool you may contact Transportation Services at 631-6467
Nore Dame senior Jill Krivacek dribbles during the 3-1 Irish win over Santa Clara Sunday. Krivacek tied the game at 1-1 with a left-footed goal in the 64th minute. 

Tuesday, September 5, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE

JOCULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 

CROISSANTWORLD 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 

Don't stuff yourself with all that food to form four ordinary words. on the cruise, Charlie 
MIDIO 
[I] I I 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
LENEK 
1 
rJ (] 
BUHSIL 
J 


WHAT THE: ASSIS­TANT DID WHE:N
rJ r I I 
THE: TAXIDE:RMIST TOOK A VACATION. 
www.jumble.com

tZIFLEZ Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.
J I I (] "[I I I I I J"ITJ 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: KAPOK HUMID TUMULT STOOGEYesterday's Answer: 
Free cocktails on a flight can cause some passen­gers to be-UP, "TIGHT'' 




WILLSHORTZ 
64 Mom-and-pop event ... and a hint to the insides of 17­and 41-Across and 11-and 40-Down 

67 Blow one's horn 68 Champing at the bit 69 Hankering 
70 Alluring 
71 Twirls 

72 First lady before Mamie 
DOWN 1 Precisely 
2 "Honest!" 
3 Classic Volkswagen 
4 Psychic ability, for short 
5 Remain in a rut 

6 Hydrant attachment 34 Boat mover 45 Three-part work 58 Burglarizes 
7 Base line on a 36 Narcotic 47 Tennis umpire's 59 Regarding graph cry
38 It's scanned at 60 Visitors to 
8 Free (of) 51 Garb
checkout: Abbr. Jesus 9 All thumbs 
52 Gong sounds 10 Mary Tyler 
39 Chum 61 "_, brother!" 
53 Bushes
40 Major irritant for 65 Listening-inMoore co-star between yards
American device
11 Persisted colonists 55 Varieties 66 Where you may12 Otherwise 42 Students 57 Tree feller get a soaking

13 Does and bucks 18 Confucian path For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
23 "I got it!" 

credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 25 Mafia Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
29 Water in the air Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
30 Foreword 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).31 Twosomes 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 33 Major TV maker solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Beyonce Knowles. 24: Jason David Frank. 32; lone Skye, 34: Mike Piazza. 37 
Happy Birthday: You've been contemplating what you want to do for some time and now you have to take action. A change is in order--look to the future with optimism. Ifyou don't take advantage. you may never forgive yourself. Your lucky numbers are 6, 9, II, 28, 35, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Deal with any matters that concern your pet if you have one or your own personal health and well-being. Thy more changes you make to ensure a better lifestyle. the better. Consider a career change. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Plan a social event at your house or make plans to do something exciting with friends or family. Don't let things get too serious. It's time to relax and enjoy yourself. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will have a creative eye today but are likely to meet with opposition. Don't dictate what you are going to do. Plant the seed and let everyone around you think that the idea is a group effort. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your heart is in the right place, and offering a helping hand should work out in your favor. Don't expect your loved ones to be too happy about your spending time assisting someone else. A short outing will appease. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Try to incorporate something in your day that relates to work, making money and getting ahead. Someone you know outside of work will be able to shed light on how the people around you perceive you. A disciplined approach will ensure success. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A hectic pace may not be your thing, but today you will thrive on the excitement it provides. Being a little unpredictable will keep others guessing. Love may be on your mind. but don't let it consume you. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may want to take on a new project at home. The chance to do some of the work yourself will not only save you money, but it will bring you great satisfaction. Lady Luck is in your comer. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): By doing for others, you will raise your profile and ensure that nothing will stand in the way of following your dreams. Organize an event --you will win favors from people who will help you out in the future. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be charming and think you've won over the people you have talked to along the way. However, someone is likely to hit a sensitive subject that makes you appear unsure of yourself. The individual trying to derail you will not be who you suspect. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't stop doing what you really want to do because someone is making you feel guilty or putting too many demands on you. This can be an ideal day with fabulous results. The contacts you make by following your own path will be to your benefit. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): It may be the weekend, but if something needs to be looked after, do the groundwork so you are fully prepared to resolve these issues as soon as possible. Added responsibilities will be necessary if you want to get things done. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your interests are changing, and you will discover that the people you have been spending time with and the people you want to spend time with are very different. Don't bum bridges or give up what you have. Instead, try to give equal time to both.*** 
Birthday Baby: You are practical when it comes to your personal life. You can charm anyone into accommodating you. You are artistic, sensitive and open­minded. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City _________ State _____ Zip_______ 

t 
' 
~ 
THE OBSERVER 



PORTS
Tuesday, September 5, 2006 
page 24 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
Corrigan reloads staff -with 2 ne-w assistant coaches 
tant Brian Fisher, who will departing assistant Kevin ing in 2001. Fisher is also they are going through."
By TIM DOUGHERTY 

join former Saint Anselm Anderson in 1997 when assistant director of MVP Byrne returns to Notre Spons Writer 
College head man Gerry Byrne Stagnitta and Anderson were Lacrosse Camps. Dame after serving as for his sec­at Washington and Lee. With five years of experi­Corrigan's first-ever Irish Notre Dame head coach ond coach­
"[Fisher is] a guy I knew ence, according to und.com, assistant from 1989-91. In Kevin Corrigan's summer ing stint at coming from the background Fisher believes his youth will 1989, the Irish defensive coor­recruiting effort may have Notre Dame. he came from-he was in a be an asset to a program that dinator was Corrigan's lone been his most important yet. Fisher program very similar to [Notre found its NCAA tournament sidekick before spending the Amid the search for next sea­spent five Dame]," Corrigan said. "[He] rhythm after a four-year hia­next two years as one of three son's high school seniors, he years with is very thorough -a hard tus. MBA graduate assistants, had a more pressing mission the Scarlet worker, very conscientious "I think I relate well with the where he helped the Irish to -to find a coaching staff. Knights and fits the bill for exactly student-athletes," Fisher said their first ever Great Lakes 
After losing both of his assis­working for what we wanted in that posi­in a statement released by the Conference title and NCAA tants -Kevin Anderson and R u t g e r s Fisher tion." Notre Dame athletic depart­tournament berth. Dave Cornell -by the middle head coach The former Rutgers mid­ment. "Only being 27 myself "The opportunity to work of the summer, Corrigan and Corrigan's good friend Jim fielder and face-off man has and not too far removed from with Kevin Corrigan again was announced last week the hir­Stagnitta -the same man been on the Scarlet Knight Division I lacrosse, I can ing of former Rutgers assis-from whom Corrigan hired coaching staff since graduat-relate pretty well with what see HIRES/page 22 

FooTBALL 
New tradition 
Senior captains, band director ·agree to have players sing Alma Mater 
By BOB GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 

Irish head coach Charlie Weis will begin another tradition this week in Notre Dame's first home game of the 2006 season against Penn State -one that has nothing to do with scoring points on offense. 
Weis and Director of Bands Kenneth Dye spoke on the telephone Friday and worked out details on a post-game collaboration between the fans, marching band and football team. 
While it's been customary in the past for the crowd to sing the Alma Mater after the game, Weis and Dye saw room for expansion. 
"I talked to the captains this summer ... and last year when we honored Navy we went over and stood behind their team while they were singing 

DUSTIN MENNELLA/The Observer 

Irish safety Tom Zbikowski (9) sings the Alma Mater with teammates see SONG/page 22 after Notre Dame's 34-10 win over Syracuse Nov. 19, 2005. 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Veltri directs squad in transition period 
Veteran leaders appreciate assistant coach's guidance 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 

During a fairly tumultuous period fol­lowing the resignation of former coach Debby King and before the hiring of cur­rent coach Susan Holt -Notre Dame found a source of stability in three indi­viduals. 
The team relied upon the constant guidance of assistant coach Kyle Veltri and the leadership of sophomore Lisa Maunu and senior Noriko Nakazaki. 
"[Coach Veltri] has constantly been 

there for us for anything that we need," Maunu said. "She's always there for us." Veltri joined the Irish before the 2005 
season after graduat­
ing from Saint Mary's in 2001. In between graduation and earn­ing her job at Notre Dame, Veltri worked as an assistant golf professional at the Palmer Course at Stonewall Resort in 

Roanoke, West Veltri Virginia. Her experi­ence organizing events has come in handy recently. 
"She's done so much during this time," Nakazaki said. "She was so busy. 
She's helped out in practices and organ­ized our tournament schedule." 
Veltri will continue to lead Notre Dame until Holt takes over Sept. 23 for the Notre Dame InvitationaL She was overwhelmed by her team's reception of her leadership. 
"They're a great group of kids and they deserve everything they get," Veltri said. "I really can't put into words how I feel about them. I'm very fortunate to be around this team." 
Nakazaki and Maunu have been par­ticularly important in helping the three freshmen -Annie Brophy, Julie Kim and Kristen Wetzel -adjust to not only the coaching situation, but also to col-
see VELTRI!page 21 

MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish hope to perform up to expectations 
Notre Dame graduates four of top seven, remain 
confident with freshmen 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Notre Dame has some big shoes to fill. 
Entering the season with high expectations, the Irish will have to fill holes left by Vinny Ambrico, Tim Moore, Sean O'Donnell and Kaleb Van Ort -all of whom competed in the 2005 NCAA Championship ­with a combination of new freshmen and returning players waiting for their chance. 
Although the Irish did lose experi­ence after last season, they still maintain a hearty talent pool, includ­ing last year's top runner Kurt Benninger, who placed second at the Great Lakes Regional and eighth overall at the NCAAs. Notre Dame will also need their current No. 2 runner, sophomore Patrick Smyth, to step up and cement the top of their team. 
Smyth had flashes of brilliance last season, including a top finish at the National Catholic Invitational and ninth place at the Big East finals. But he was not always so dominant, fin­ishing 34th or higher in three of his other four races. 
Among the freshmen looking to make an immediate impact on this year's team is Brock Hagerman, who last year was the Indiana state cham­pion. 
"Right now my goal is just to make varsity, be one of those top seven guys who gets to run at the end," he 
see START/page 21 


NFL
MlB 

~Fl 
TE~NIS 

PGA TOUR 
MlB
LLI 
c.:» 

San Diego general 
U.S. Open 

Deutsche Bank 
Phillies 3
z 

The revampe.d defense 
manager A.J. Smith said 
Astros 2 (10}

Championship
Two days after a
cc 

of the New York Giants 
linebacker Steve Foley
..... medical scare, Marcus 
Andy Roddick beat 

believes it is ready for its 
will not play this season 
Tiger Woods had two
= Giles was cleared to 
Chase Utley hit a
Benjamin Becker a day

after being shot by an 
opening-week matchup 
eagles and won his fifth 
homer with two outs in
cc play for the Braves. 
after Becker ousted 

with the Colts. 
off-duty police officer. 
straight tournament. 
the lOth for the win. 
Andre Agassi. 
tc 
page 19 
page 18

page 20
page 21 

page 15 
page 14 






