
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 10 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER4, 2006 
Police arrest 2, cite 86 at parties 
Three-hour Turtle Creek raid Friday results in 96 tickets 
By MADDIE HANNA and 
MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writers 
In the first major bust this fall, police arrested two Notre Dame students and cited 86 others at Turtle Creek Apartments Friday night after receiving an anonymous com­plaint about a party advertised on the Internet, police said Sunday. 
see BUST/page 6 

Close score fails to faze Irish faithful 
ty of Irish faithful found a way to get tickets. 
"There was a really good presence of Notre Dame fans, old and young," she said. 
Wasikowski, who attended Notre Dame's opening game against Pitt last year, said this year's game was very dif­ferent. 
"We really missed the band [this year]. because we weren't anywhere near the leprechaun or the cheerlead­ers," she said. "Last year we didn't know what to expect­Notre Dame wasn't ranked very high -and we just went in there and destroyed them." 
In a contest in which the Irish did not score until the last seconds of the first half, "destroyed" is probably not how Georgia Tech -or any­one-feels. 
see TECH/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Suspect 
still •
In 


custody 
Student identifies man after alleged assault 
By MARY KATE MALONE News Editor 
The Mishawaka man arrest­ed in connection with the alleged Aug. 23 assault of a junior Notre Dame student is being held at the St. Joseph County jail and will likely face formal charges by Tuesday, police said Sunday. 
The St. Joseph County Prosecutor's office has 72 hours to dictate and file formal charges against Bruce Smith, 24, said Capt. Phil Trent, South Bend police public information officer. The filing deadline was extended until Tuesday because of the holiday week­end. 
Police think Smith is con­nected to the alleged assault of a female student that occurred at Turtle Creek Apartments Aug. 23. The student, 21, said she was held at knifepoint by a man who gained access to her apartment by posing as a Comcast cable worker. 
The student, who transferred to Notre Dame this year from Clemson University, said she was able to pull away from the man's grasp and was not injured during the incident. When police presented her with a photo line-up of six pos­sible suspects last week, she tried to identify the man who assaulted her, Trent said. 
"She didn't hesitate one 
see ASSAULT/page 4 


By JOE PIARULLI 
News Writer 
The car ride to Atlanta takes almost 12 hours and spans nearly 700 miles. Gas costs go into triple digits, game tickets are hard to come by and the Georgia Tech fans have a less than stellar reputation. On top of that, the Irish put up only 14 points in an unexceptional win. Was it really worth the trip? 
"Definitely," senior Kathryn Schuessler said. 
Schuessler and 10 of her friends, including senior Laurie Wasikowski, took three cars to Atlanta to watch Notre Dame's first victory of the season over the Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets. 
The group got tickets through a friend's father, and according to Schuessler, plen-

Wireless Internet now working in all residence halls 
New system sometimes slowed by downloads 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
Accessing the Internet at Notre Dame just got a little easier, thanks to the comple­tion of the wireless Internet installation project within all residences halls. 
The project allows students to utilize the Internet not only from their dorm rooms, but also in all buildings that serve "an academic" or "resi­dential" purpose, said Dewitt Latimer, assistant provost for the Office of Information Technologies (OIT). 
The physical installation of wireless was finished on the July 19, University Program Manager for Strategic Initiatives Planning and Programs Robert Guthrie said. 
Lewis Hall, Farley Hall, Pasquerilla East and Pasquerilla West were the last dorms to receive wire­less. 
Each of these three dorms either required additional construction to install wire­less or were previously under construction, prohibiting immediate installation, Guthrie said. 
In October 2005, the Office of Residence Life and Housing and the OIT collabo­rated to make plans for the installation of wireless 
Internet access in all of the residence halls on campus, Guthrie said. 
The decision to include wireless Internet access within residence halls was the result of "a trend of a greater percentage of stu­dents coming in [to Notre Dame] with laptops," Latimer said, noting that most laptops made within the last four years contain wireless net­work cards. 
"We were getting data points from multiple sources saying that lack of wireless was a detriment to residen­tial life, and adding it would be beneficial to the students in the halls," Latimer said. 
Latimer said OIT learned 
see WIRELESS/page 4 


page 2 · The Obserwr + PAGE 2 Monday, September 4, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Wardrobe n1alfunction 
EvPryone has their ovvn theory on '\-vhy the Irish barely edged out Georgia Tech this wePknnd. 
Fortunatelv tor me. my roommate is a psych major ·and anaJyzed the many pos­
sibilities or why the  
game was so dose.  .  .  Katie Kohler  
· As simple  as  it  
mav sound, shn said  
it came dovvn to the  News Writer  
colors.  
Yes, the colors.  
Let's dissect the  

unifbrms from head to toe: The Irish had gold helmets, as did the Yellow Jackets. ­The Irish had gold pants; the Yellow JackeL.;; wore white. 
We wore white jerseys; they wore gold. 
Basically, we wore the opposite colors, but tho important thing is, they wnre the same colors. It was even confusing to watch at times beeause of how dose they wnre. 
Being in the stadium with thousands of people, lights shining down and fans screaming. I can't imagine it could havn been any easier to be playing. 
Now fbr the theory. My roommate, who vvishes to remain anonymous -for the · obvious reason that her theory is genius -compared the game to a bullfight (bear with me here, I'm getting some­where). 
In a typical bullfight, the matador makns the bull attack by waving a red flag. Similarly. the Fighting Irish are con­ditiorwd to attack the other team's colors, 
a.k.a. the flag. During this gmne, howev­er, we were wearing virtually the same colors. No one in his right mind would attack his own players. With thn hype and intensity of the opening game, maybt~ some of our players were getting confused? 
It makes sense. With the fitst pace of the game, there could have lx~tm some confusion. 
Think about it. 
Besides Georgia Tech, most of the temns we play have uniforms that are not as close to ours, making it easier to focus. I mean, white and gold'? It may have 
well been white m1d ofl~white. 
A night game plus similar colors plus season opening p1·essure equals bullfight­ing syndrome. 
Don't get me wrong -a \Vin is a vvin. But next week, I don't think there will be any confusion bPtween white and navy blue jerseys -even green, for that mat­ter. 
Basieallv, her conclusion is that the football was, eh, good enough. 
[t was the little things that added up. It could have been all the flags or the incomplete passes, but I would like to give Notre Dame the benefit of the doubt m1d call it a wardrobe malfunction. 
Either way. we won. And now, after Charlie Weis reads this column (which he probably won't) I hope he thinks twice about having that similar ofjersey colors. 
I don't think we ean a.flord to experi­ence the bullfighting syndrome again ­at least not tllis season. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO1@saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due ro a production error, the article en tided "College expands handicap access" in the Sepr. 1 edition ofThe Observer incorrectly said the new ramp will provide an entrance ro rhe basement. The new ramp will enter the first floor ofLe Mans. 
Due to a production error, the article entitled "New fountain added ro entrance ofSMC student cenrer" in the Aug. 31 edition ofThc Observer incorrectly labeled Karen Hey! a College alumna. 
The Observer regrets these errors. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHERE WERE YOU FOR THE GEORGIA TECH-NOTRE DAME GAME? 


Maureen Clark  Jason McClain  Katie Coyne  Katie McCann  Margaret Kelly  Nick Schott  
sophomore Welsh Family  freshman Hsher  freshman McGlinn  soplmiore Welsh Family  freshman McGlinn  junior O'Neil  
"J was on North (}uad rediscovering my love for Notre Dame football. "  "l\4y friends and I were in the basement r~{ Fisher-we cheered, we cried, we cheered the Irish on to  ''I wa.o; with Margaret, and. qfier the game I went to Keenan, got in a big circle with a lot rif people and attempted to sing  "North ()uad -dying with the rest r~{ the student body during the first half  "I was at Lafayette at someone's apartment and my.friends and I sang the Fight Song 15 times after the  "1\t/y fellow trumpets and I helped keep the Irish .fans stoked during the game on North ()uad. "  





victory. " the alma mater. " game. 


IN BRIEF 
"FrPedom on tlw Internet 
and  the  Ethical  
Responsibility  of  IT  
Companies  in China:  A  

Panel Discussion" will begin at 5 p.m. Tuesday in Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business. 
The Office of Multicultural Affairs vdll present "Which counts more: Rae<', Gender or Class?" on Wednesday from noon lo 1 p.m. in Vand('r V<•nrwt Theatre. 
The 2006 Endowed Fall Leeture S<'ries will kick off with "Welcoming the 
~~n~n~er: llosp_it~ali~;Y .in the Chnsttan Trarlttwn featur­ing Ana Maria Pineda of San !.a Clara University at 
7:30 p.m. Wednesday in Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans fJ all. 
The 2006 Endowed Fall Leeture Series will host a "Special Follow-up Event: Immigration Issues: A Catholic Common Ground Conversation" Thursday, at 
3:30 p.m. in Stapl~ton Lounge, Le Mans Hall. 
Student Comedy Night at Legends will begin at 10 
p.m. Thursday. ND/SMC/HCC student lD required to enter. 
The traditional marching band step-off will be at 4:30 
p.m. Friday in front of the Main Building, heading through campus to its prac­tice in the Joyee Center parking lot. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an e1•en t to obsnews@nd. edu. 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 


~ 
HIGH 78 HIGH LOW 58 !-OW 

JESSICA LEEfThe Observer 
Sophomore Nick Simonson impersonates Michael Jackson dancing to "Thriller" after being hypnotised by hypnotist Rich Aimes Friday at Washington Hall as part of the SUB Welcome Back Week events. 
OFFBEAT 
Multi-tasking motorist stopped by Swiss police 
A 34-year-old saleswom­an was eaught driving down a Swiss motorway while she was using he.r laptop computer and chat­ting on a handheld mobile phone, police in north­eastern Switzerland sav. 
The driver said she was unaware of any wrongdo­ing and responded that she was "·driving like I always do," polie~l in t.lw canton of St Gallen said in a statement. 
A police patrol pulled her over on Wednesday afternoon after thev saw her ear zig-zagging "along the A3 motorwav near the town of Murg. · 
The woman was remanded to a Magistrates Court beeause of her "unreasonable behavior." police said. 
Welsh pig shelter to be used as opera theater 
A purpose-built pig shelter al Morundah, in central west New South Wales, will aet as an opera theatre for a per­formance of Bizet's Carmen this weekend. 
Both perl'ormanees ol' the opera are sold out. 
The organizer of the event and publiean of the 
Morundah Hotel, Dave Fahey, says he has never been to an opera and probably will not see this performance as he will be manning the bar. 
Fahey says he organ­ized the event to bring some culture to the area and local charities will benefit. 
"Most probably [we'll collect for] Urana Hospital and Billabidgee J>laee Agf~d Care, as well as that we've got the loeal Na.rrandera rescue squad," he said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY a: 
IJ.I 
8 :::c 3: 
_, 
$
cr: 
(.) 


....0 HIGH 74 HIGH 60 HIGH 72 HIGH 75 LOW 56 LOW 56 LOW 56 LOW 56 
Atlanta 86 I 68 Boston 77 I 58 Chicago 73 I 57 Denver 76 I 53 Houston 89 I 66 Los Angeles 92 I 69 Minneapolis 72 I 53 New York 79 I 61 Philadelphia 79 I 59 Phoenix 96 I 79 Seattle 81 I 53 St. Louis 78 I 57 Tampa 90 I 74 Washington 80 I 64 
Monday, September 4, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND to hold global health forum_ 
Medical, moral, social issues to be addressed 
Special to The Observer 
Economist Jeffrey Sachs, director of the UN Millennium Project, medical anthropologist and physician Dr. Paul Farmer, founder of Partners in Health, and Dr. Miriam Laker Opwonya of Uganda will be the featured panelists participating Sept. 14 in the second annual Notre Dame Forum. 
Titled "The Global Health Crisis: Forging Solutions, Effecting Change," the forum will take place from 1:15 p.m. to 
3:15 in the University's Joyce Center arena and will be moder­ated by Gwen Ifill, senior corre­spondent for the NewsHour with Jim Lehrer. Classes will be can­celed during the forum to give students and faculty the oppor­tunity to attend. A live Webcast will be available at http://forum.nd.edu/. 
The event's theme was select­ed. to coincide with the day long dedication of Notre Dame's new Jordan Hall of Science, a $70 million, 200,000-square-foot building that contains the most advanced scientific and educa­tional teaching instrumentation of any university facility in the nation. 
"More than 50 years ago, the framers of the constitution for the World Health Organization wrote that the 'highest attain­able standard of health' is a fun­damental right of all people worldwide," University President Father John Jenkins said. "And yet, despite the many scientific advances in health care over the past half century, poverty, dis­ease and .·premature death con­tinue to devastate large seg­ments of the world community. As a teaching and research uni­versity committed to the ideals of Catholic social justice, Notre Dame takes seriously our responsibility to examine this problem in depth and help forge solutions." 
Notre Dame Forum panelists will discuss the medical, politi­cal, moral, social and economic implications of this global crisis, and reflect on the responsibility of developed countries to assist those who suffer from poverty, malnutrition and disease. 
Sachs, Farmer and Opwonya have devoted their careers to helping the world's poorest pop­ulations. In addition to his work with the United Nations, Sachs is the Quetelet Professor of Sustainable Development and a professor of health policy and management at Columbia University, where he also directs The Earth Institute. He is the author of the best-selling book "The End of Poverty," as well as many other scholarly articles and publications. 
As director of the UN Millennium Project and special advisor to UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, Sachs leads the effort to meet the Millennium Development Goals, the interna­tional effort to reduce extreme poverty, disease and hunger by 2015. He has advised govern­ments in Latin America, Eastern Europe, the former Soviet Union, Asia and Africa on economic reforms and has worked with international agencies to pro­mote poverty reduction, disease control and debt reduction in poor countries. 
Farmer has worked in infec­tious disease control for nearly two decades and is a world­renowned authority on AIDS and tuberculosis. He founded the Boston-based Partners in Health in 1987 as an international organization that provides direct health care services and under­takes research and advocacy activities on behalf of people worldwide who are sick and liv­ing in poverty. The organization established a multi-service health complex, Zanmi Lasante, in Haiti in 1991 and is now exporting its community-based model to rural Rwanda. 
An attending physician at the Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, Farmer also is the Maude· and Lillian Presley Professor of Medical Anthropology in the Department of Social Medicine at Harvard Medical School. He is the author or co-author of more than 100 scholarly publications and of numerous books, most recently "Pathologies of Power: Health Human Rights, and the New War on the Poor," published in 2003 by University of California Press. He is the subject of the book "Mountains Beyond Mountains: The Quest of Dr. Paul Farmer, A Man Who Would Cure the World" by Pulitzer Prize-winning author Tracy Kidder. 



Experts examine obesity in Latinos 
Researchers gather at ND for workshop 
Special to The Observer 
When Rodolfo Valdez moved to the United States from Venezuela 21 years ago, he lost weight because he couldn't speak English and couldn't order food. Then, as he became more comfortable with the American lifestyle (obvious­ly a little too comfortable, he concedes), he packed on 20 pounds. He has since figured out where he went wrong, has regained his trim physique, and, as an epidemiologist for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), is trying to stop the increasing problem of Latino obesity. 
Weight gain eventually affects many Latino immi­grants who, for the most part, eat healthier and get more exercise before coming to the 
U.S. than after. The problem, which can lead to chronic ill­nesses like diabetes and heart disease, is being studied by Valdez and other public health practitioners and faculty from around the country. Experts visited Notre Dame this sum­mer to participate in an Institute for Latino Studies (ILS) workshop titled "Latino Obesity: Using Research for Understanding and Action" in an effort to address the social, cultural and economic factors associated with obesity among Latinos. 

According to the CDC, over­weight and obesity in the U.S. occur at higher rates in racial and ethnic minority popula­tions, and those of low socioe­conomic status within those groups are most vulnerable to obesity. Its related diseases, including diabetes, hyperten­sion, cancer and heart disease, also are found in higher rates among minorities. 
Valdez, along with experts from the Pan American Health Organization, various commu­nity-based health groups and higher education, discussed the epidemiology of obesity across the U.S. and within Latino communities and collaborated on research methods, data sources and intervention mod­els. He says much of the prob­lem can be blamed on a "health transition." 
"First-generation Latinos just arriving in the U.S. are not typ­ically obese," Valdez said. "Actually, they are leaner than people who have been living here for some time because they eat healthier and get more exercise, but as they stay here longer they adopt the cus­toms here, perhaps buying their first car, watching televi­sion and playing video games, and they start gaining weight." 


·... --~:: ·:=::.:._ :t%.'. :
S....·.R··.·... .. ...


·.···.··.·.······.·[k·AD 
Forgiveness and the Challeng~ of Loving Enemies 
Join fellow students and faculty for dinner and an evening of faith-based discussion 
Tuesday, September 26th at 6:00 pm Notre Dame Stadium Press Box 
Featuring guest speaker 

Dr. Gregory Jones 
Professor of Theology and Dean of Duke Divinity School 
If interested, e-mail the Center for Ethics and Culture at ethics2@nd.edu. Please give us your name, local address, class and major. Spaces are limited to the first eighty students who respond; priority will be given to those''\ who have never attended. We welcome all students regardless of faith commitment. 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture http://ethicscenter.nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 4, 2006 


Tech 
continued from page 1 

"There were definitely nervous moments, but I was confident with all the prepa­ration and all the experi­ence our team has that we would come out with the win," Schuessler said. 
Junior Chris Wilson, who drove to the game in a mini­van with five of his friends, said Georgia Tech's environ­ment must have been tough on Brady Quinn and the Irish. 
"There was a pretty good atmosphere for the home team-it was really loud 
'1 don't think it's 
anytime we with [fresh­
Farley Hall rector Carrine 
were on anything that can't be man corner­
Etheridge said the wireless 
offense," he back Darrin 
Internet "certainly does pro­
corrected. 
said. Walls) guard­
vide a lot of flexibility for the
I'd rather play crappy 
Schuessler ing Calvin 
students." 

said fans on and be 1-o than play Johnson," 
Etheridge has noticed stu­
dents are able to study in
both sides crappy and be o-1." Wasikowski 
were very said. 
groups in the dorm study 
involved in the At the end 
lounges and can bring their
Chris Wilson 
game right of the day, 
computers everywhere on 
from the junior the Irish are 
campus. 

beginning ­perhaps too involved, as some Georgia Tech students were throwing various objects onto the field -and stuck it out until the end. 
"There was a lot of back and forth excitement for both sides," she said, "so people weren't leaving the stadium until it was pretty clear that we were going to win." 
One of Notre Dame's biggest obstacles in Saturday's game was not the Yellow Jackets, but the yel­low flags peppering the playing field, Schuessler said. 
"There were so many penalties that I feel like we couldn't get into a good rhythm, so I think that kind of messed up the flow of the game," she said. 
Wasikowski said she "was expecting our offense to 

Assault 
continued from page 1 

iota," Trent said. "A lot of times it takes quite awhile to study pictures, but she just went right to it and picked him out." 
Smith was asked to come to the South Bend police station after the student identified him. He was questioned by 
"We could
detectives and later arrested. theoretically add "He didn't 
more charges ifhe 
give an admis­

would have stated
sion, but he 

sort of talked his intentions." 
around the 
direct question 

Phil Trent 
he was being 

public information 
asked," Trent 

officer
said, adding that it was South Bend Police 
"very suspi­cious" that Smith placed himself at Turtle Creek during the time of the incident. 
Smith is currently being held under a booking charge, which is a preliminary charge made by police based on the formal charge expected to come from the county prose­cutor. In this case, Smith is being held for criminal con­finement, or holding someone against his or her will. 
plaints -it seems okay," Etheridge said. 
While surfing Web sites, checking e-mail and instant messaging work with wire­less, some Internet uses are better suited to a wired con­nection. 
"What we're seeing is a lot of students not understand­ing how wireless works," Latimer said. "A lot of stu­dents assume that wireless is not a shared environment ­that their actions don't affect anyone else. That is true for a wired network, but not for a wireless." 
For users to take part in a wireless network, their com­puter connects through radio to an access point that is shared by other wireless users, Guthrie said. 
If a student downloads a video that requires a lot of network space, the student slows down not only his or her own Internet but also the Internet for all other users accessing wireless through the same shared access point. 
Senior Ashley Kelly said she thought people have been misusing the wireless and causing service to be slower. 
"I think everyone was under the impression that the wireless would be our main Internet access, but with everybody using it, it's just been slow and unreliable," Kelly said. 
"Hopefully later on people will switch back to using their cords like I did, or maybe OIT will find some way to fix it." 
Sophomore Nathan Cutler noticed that the wireless Internet has been slower for downloads, but works well for general uses such as e­mailing. 
Freshmen Amanda Zofkie and Gina Lizama both said they have not experienced any problems with their wireless connections. 
Zofkie has been using wired connection in her dorm room, but uses wireless access in other places such as classes and study lounges, and has found wireless to be very convenient. 
"You don't have to carry your cord around all the time," she said. 
The Office of Information Technology sent out an e­mail to students last week regarding proper uses for using wireless Internet, and Guthrie encourages students using the Internet to down­load videos or play games to use wired Internet access, which he said is still a faster connection. 
Senior Matt Plaska agreed. 
"The wired is a little bit faster," he said. "You know it's always going to work so you don't have to worry about network." 
And there are "just some things" students should do on the wired ResNet connection, Guthrie said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 
pretty much dominate." 

"I think a lot of it was just first game jitters because there was so much hype." 
Despite Irish struggles, students said many promis­ing pieces began to fall into place in a potential National Championship puzzle, including a stellar special teams showing and a sec­ond-half shutdown of stud receiver Calvin Johnson and the Georgia Tech offense. 
"[Punter] Geoff Price did a good job," Schuessler said. "I thought the defense looked really fast and there were some good tackles by [Ndukwe) and [Zbikowski] 
that got peo­
ple excited." 
"I was real­
ly impressed 

Wireless 
continued from page 1 

such as yearly surveys "that lack of wireless was a detriment to residential life, and adding it would be bene­ficial to the students in the halls." 
"As a service provider, we obviously want to provide the services that our constituents want and need," he said. 
"We leveraged the fact that we were having to re-cable the dorms," Latimer said, which made the cost "mar­ginal to !what the cost would have been] going back three years ago and trying to do it. Now was the time." 
1-0 and 
escaped 
healthy and hopeful. 
"I don't think it's anything that can't be corrected," Wilson said. 'Td rather play crappy and be 1-0 than play crappy and be 0-1." 
A wakeup call is what Notre Dame may have need­ed, Wasikowski said, consid­ering the difficulty of its 
"I think it has made things so much more convenient for them," she said. ''I'm glad some~~ing is convenient for them. 
While Etheridge said she has heard complaints from her residents about their cell phone service, the wireless Internet service has not been a problem in Farley. 
"I haven't heard any com-
upcoming schedule. 

"It was a good reality check," she said. "[T)his season is not just going to be a walk to the National Championship. They'll have to work hard for it. 
''I'm just glad that we won and I'm looking forward to next week -hopefully everyone will get pumped up for Penn State." 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd.edu 


The Centerfor Ethics and Reli'gwus Values in Business and 

The Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide 
Trent suspects the county prosecutor will charge Smith with criminal confinement 
Proudly Present

initially, but he said more charges might be added as the investigation continues. 
"The victim was able to get 
Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics
free before anything else hap­
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment)
pened," Trent said, referring to the nature of the charges Smith might face. "We could 
"Freedom on the Internet and the Ethical Responsibility theore.tically add more 
ofIT Companies in China: A Panel Discussion" charges if he would have stat­
ed his intentions. ... Had it been another 10 sec­
Panelists include: onds we might have a clearer 
Lionel Jensen, Department Chair, East Asian Languages and Literature picture of what 
David Clairmont, Assistant Professor of Theology the individual's 
Oliver Williams, Director of Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business intentions were." Once the 
Georges Enderle, O'Neil Professor of International Business Ethics, will serve as moderator.
charges are filed, Smith will go in 
All participants are faculty members at the University ofNotre Dame.
front of a judge for a bond hear­ing and if he can post bond which would be 
the norm, Trent said -then 
Tuesday, September 5, 2006
he will be released on bond 
7:00p.m.

until his trial. The student, who wished to 
Jordan Auditorium remain anonymous, has been 
Mendoza College ofBusiness 
in talks with the University to move onto campus, although she was originally denied housing this fall as a transfer student. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at 
mmalone3@nd.edu 
~~~------~ 




ORLD.&NATION 
Monday, September 4, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THf: ()BSERVER'S Wl RI SERVJcrs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Violence escalates in Darfur region 
KHARTOUM, Sudan -Rebels in the war­torn Darfur region said Sunday that govern­ment forces backed by bomber aircraft were pursuing a week-old offensive and African Union peacekeepers reported continued fight­ing. 
The government, meanwhile, significantly raised the stakes in Khartoum's standoff with the international community by calling for the AU to withdraw its troops from all of Darfur before its mandate expires on Sept. 30. 
The rebels said aircraft were carrying out daily bombing raids as government troops seek to drive out National Redemption Front guerrillas from their strongholds north of Darfur's provincial capital, El Fasher. 
Northern Darfur is controlled by rebels who did not sign a U.S.-brokered peace deal in May aimed at ending the three-year conflict in the western region of Sudan which has left more than 200,000 dead and displaced 2.5 million. 
Iran snubs Annan during U.N. visit 
TEHRAN, Iran -The U.N. chief got little satisfaction Sunday at the close of his trip to Tehran, snubbed by Iran's leader over international demands to stop enriching uranium and ignored in warnings not to incite hatred by questioning the Holocaust. 
In a provocative move on the final day of Kofi Annan's two-day visit, Iran announced it would host a conference to examine what it called exaggerations about the Holocaust, during which more than 6 million Jews were killed by the Nazis. 
The move was sure to draw new interna­tional condemnation of Iran's stance on Jews. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Clues sought in speedboat collision 
WILLIS, Okla. -Investigators plan to reconstruct two speedboats that collided on Lake Texoma to gather clues about the crash that left five people dead and one injured, authorities said Sunday. 
The boats collided Saturday during the "Highroller Poker Run," in which partici­pants get a playing card at five different stops and win if they have the best poker hand at the end, said Oklahoma Highway Patrol trooper Kera Philippi. 
One of the victims, Gordon Mineo, had organized the poker run. 
"They're going to investigate the mechanics of both boats, too, and not just focus on whether it was driver error," Philippi said. "The driver of the second boat is still alive, so they're going to want to talk to him." 

Terrorism prosecutions declining 
WASIIINGTON -The federal govern­ment has fallen back to prosecuting inter­national terrorists at about the same rate it did before Sept. 11, according to a study based on Justice Department data. 
The surprising decline followed a sharp increase in such criminal prosecutions in the year after the attacks, according to a study released Sunday by the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, a data research group at Syracuse University. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Man kills suspect during robbery 
INDIANAPOLIS-A would-be robber got more than he bargained for early Saturday when his intended victim pulled out a hand­gun and shot him five times outside a Lawrence bar, authorities said. 
Police identified the suspected robber as Ronald Zenor, 29, Indianapolis, who was taken 
• to Wishard Memorial Hospital, where he died. The incident occurred about 3:30 a.m. as the Sports Page Lounge was closing. 
Police believe Zenor was involved in a rob­bery outside another bar about a half-hour before he was shot. 
IRAQ 


Top al-Qaida leader captured 
Authorities call terror suspect 'brutal, merciless' following Sunday's arrest 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -Authorities on Sunday announced the capture of al-Qaida in Iraq's No. 2 leader, accusing him of "brutal and merciless" terror operations, including the bombing of a Shiite shrine that touched off the sectarian bloodletting push­ing Iraq toward civil war. 
Iraq's national security adviser said Hamed Jumaa Farid al-Saeedi, known as Abu Humam or Abu Rana, was arrested a few days ago as he hid in a residen­tial building southwest of Baqouba. 
The arrest has left al­Qaida in Iraq suffering a "serious leadership crisis," national security adviser Mouwafak al-Rubaie said. "Our troops have dealt fatal and painful blows to this organization." 
He accused the terror suspect of supervising the creation of death squads and ordering assassina­tions, bombings.. kidnap­pings and attacks on Iraqi police and army check­points. "The operations were brutal and merciless," al-Rubaie said. 
Not much is known about al-Saeedi, but al-Rubaie said he was the second most important al-Qaida in Iraq leader after Abu Ayyub al-Masri. Al-Masri is its operations against our and Sunday in the volatile believed to have been believed to have taken over people, especially those Anbar province, west of the responsible for the attack the group after a U.S. air aimed at inciting sectarian capital. on the shrines in Samarra, strike killed leader Abu strife," al-Rubaie said. The arrest of al-Saeedi which led to the sectarian Musab al-Zarqawi north of The U.S.-led coalition and came just over two months violence that we have Baghdad on June 7. Iraqi authorities have after Iraqi authorities seen." 
Al-Rubaie said al-Saeedi announced numerous announced that they had A senior coalition official was "directly responsible" arrests after al-Zarqawi captured Yousri Fakher told The Associated Press for Haitham Sabah Shaker was killed that officials Mohammed Ali, a Tunisian that coalition forces were Mohammed al-Badri, an claim have thrown al-Qaida also known as Abu involved in al-Saeedi's Iraqi whom authorities in Iraq into disarray. Qudama. arrest, but would not give have accused of leading the But rampant sectarian "This is a very important details on what role they Feb. 22 bombing against violence and other attacks development," Deputy played the Shiite shrine in have continued, with at Prime Minister Barham The official, speaking on Samarra, 60 miles north of least 20 Iraqis killed in Saleh said on CNN's "Late condition of anonymity Baghdad. bomb attacks and shootings Edition." because announcements 
The attack inflamed ten­on Sunday. "Deliberate intelligence were being made by Iraqi sions between Shiite and The U.S. military com­work, both by Iraqi forces authorities, said al-Saeedi Sunni Muslims and trig­mand announced that four as well as the multinational had been arrested along gered reprisal attacks that U.S. troops had been killed forces, have dealt a very with three other people have killed hundreds of -two soldiers killed by a severe blow to al-Qaida near Baqouba, 35 miles Iraqis. roadside bomb Sunday in organization in Iraq," Saleh northeast of Baghdad. Al­
Al-Saeedi's capture "will Baghdad and two Marines said. "It is also significant Zarqawi was killed on the affect al-Qaida in Iraq and in separate incidents Friday because this man is outskirts of Baqouba. 


6 children die in apartment fire 
in quite a few years. I mean it's now our preliminary cause is that
Associated Press 

children. It's difficult for everyone the candles were the cause of ori­
CHICAGO -Children screamed involved," Orozco said. gin," Orozco said. "we're burning" early Sunday as an Commonwealth Edison The fire broke out just after mid­apartment fire, likely caused by a spokesman John Dewey said the night, Langford said. candle used for light because there apartment hadn't had electricity "Then the mother came running was no electricity, killed six chil­since May, but he wouldn't say why out with one child in her arms, dren ages 3 to 14, authorities said. it was turned off, citing confiden­screaming to the neighbors that 
The victims' mother and three tiality reasons. there were other children inside," siblings were injured. Firefighters found most of the said Cmdr. Will Knight. "They 
The third-floor, three-bedroom children huddled in the apartment's asked her how many and she said apartment on the city's North Side front room, not far from the spot 'eight."' also had no smoke detector, said where the fire probably started, Derrell Dixon said two children visibly shaken Fire Commissioner said fire department spokesman appeared at a window and he and Raymond Orozco. Larry Langford. several other neighbors held up a 
"This is the largest multiple fire "It appears that candles were blanket, trying unsuccessfully to get fatality we've had from a single fire used in the apartment and right the youngsters to jump to safety. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, September 4, 2006 
Bust 
continued from page 1 

The two-apartment raid ­which began at 1655 Turtle Creek at 11:30 p.m. and ended at 1705 Turtle Creek at 2:30 
a.m. -resulted in 96 tickets, including two custodial arrests, said Officer R. Swallow of the Indiana State Excise police. 
Excise officers were not patr:olling the apartment com­plex, Swallow said, ·but received an anonymous com­plaint about a party at 1655 "listed on MySpace under events and also under people's blogs." 
That complaint prompted an investigation led initially by two undercover Excise police officers, who were later joined by more Excise, St. Joseph County and Walkerton police officers -a total of 13 to 14 officers, Swallow said. 
Both custodial arrests were made at 1655, Swallow said. Excise arrested Maureen Conway, 19, for "minor con­suming and false informing." 
Conway was not carrying identification, Swallow said, and did not reveal her identity to police. 
Conway declined to com­ment Sunday. 
St. Joseph County police made the second custodial arrest, Swallow said. He did not know the name or the rea­son for arrest. 
St. Joseph County police spokesperson Jaimee Thirion did not return Observer phone calls Sunday. 
Swallow said the officers issued 58 tickets to 54 individ­uals at 1655 for minor in con­sumption, possession of false identification and inducing a minor to consume alcoholic beverages. 
After Excise received the 
anonymous complaint about received tickets for inducing the party at 1655 Turtle Creek, minors, and the third received 
Government program 
Swallow and another under­a ticket for minor in consump­cover Excise officer entered tion. the apartment at 11 p.m. Officers then went to 1705 
During this initial check, and issued 38 tickets to 34 

scans college databases 
about 90 people were present, people, who, "to my knowl­
Swallow said. edge," Swallow said, were all "You could see the inside of Notre Dame students. 
Associated Press the apartment when coming in Like at 1655, the tickets -the entire back lof the issued to students at 1705 
WASHINGTON -For the apartment] was full, people were for minor in consumption 
past five years an office in the were spilling out," Swallow and possession of false identi­
Education Department has said. fication. Police ticketed the 
scanned through its databases He and the other officer left apartment's resident -who is 
of millions of students' federal 
"to meet up with other offi­
cers," including "You could see the officers from inside of the both St. Joseph 
apartment when 
County and 
Walkerton coming in -the 
police forces. entire back [of the Officers 
apartment] was
returned to 
·full, people were
Turtle Creek at "probably spilling out." 11:30" p.m., Swallow said. 
R. Swallow
Two undercov­
officer
er officers 
again entered Indiana State Excise 1655, he said, police while other offi­cers waited 
21 -for inducing 
financial aid and college 
a minor to con­
enrollment records in search 
sume alcoholic 
of" terrorist names supplied by 
beveragns as well 
the FBI. 

as possession of 
The effort, dubbed "Project 
marijuana, 
Strike Back," was created by 
Swallow sitid. 

the Education Department's 
No custodial 
Office of Inspector General 
arrests were made 
after the terror attacks of 
at 1705, he said. 
Sept. 11, 2001, to expand the 
"All of the resi­
office's mission to inelude 
dents both at the 
counterterrorism. 

first and second 
At the time, investigators 
apartment were 
believfld some funding for the 
cooperative," 
Sept. 11 attacks came from 
Swallow said. 

identity thflft and fraud, erimi­
Thi1 raid, he 
nal activity the Education 
said, was not part 
Department had experience 
of a larger surveil­
investigating, according to an 
lance effort by 
internal memo obtained 
suming alcohol." laws and are "specialists" in At this point, Swallow said, that field, said Capt. Phil 
lion students who apply for financial aid each year, even after they have repaid the loans. 
To search for "potential ter­rorist activity," the FBI gave the department fewer than 1,000 names that the bureau considered suspicious to run through its databases, said bureau spokeswoman Cathy Milhoan. The bureau made requests as recently as February 2006. 
In response to the requests, department agents would look for "anomalies" in the data and share the information with the FBI and Justice Department attorneys, accord­ing to a Government Accountability Offiee report and a letter from an Education Department Office of Inspector General special agent to the assistant inspec­tor general for investigations. 
They found and shared per­sonal information including at least names, addresses, dates of birth, Social Security num­bers and driver's license num­bers, according to an agency document that was recounted by a government official famil­iar with the data-mining pro­gram. 
nearby. 
"We just wanted to make sure the party was still going on, so that's why the officers were sent to the premise," Swallow said. "They called back to say the party was dying because the keg was emptied, but there were still young-appearing subjects con­Excise to target Turtle Creek. 
"This was the first time our agency has worked Turtle Creek this year," Swallow said. "I don't know if we plan on doing this lin the futuro]." 
The Excise police are an arm of the Indiana state police. They are charged with enforc­ing state alcohol and liquor many around the country used by the FBI to identify people of potential interest," said FBI spokeswoman Cathy Milhoan. 
through  a  Freedom  of  
Information Act request.  
"This program was  one  of  

The department's central database stores information on all of the roughly 14 mil-

officers went to the front and back of the apartment ­which he estimated now had 60 people, all Notre Dame stu­dents except "maybe one or two" -and began to check IDs and issue tickets. 
Of the three teasers present -the fourth is a Notre Dame cheerleader who was at the Georgia Tech game, Swallow said -the two who are 21 Trent, South Bend police pub­lic information officer. 
"If there's multiple people [cited] it's Indiana State Excise police calling the shots," Trent said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu and Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 


Saint Mary's College Center for Spirituality 
The 2006 Endowed Fall Lecture Series 




Bilngi.ngTradition


UllDrnOOD 
All lectures: 7:30p.m. 
Stapleton Lounge, Lc Mans Hall 
Tc L•f
SUBFootbal 
Saint Mary's College 
0 1 e
Enter the lottery and win a chance to see the Irish beat the Spartans 
September 6 12pm-5pm @Legends 


Wednesday, September 6 Ana Maria Pineda, Santa Clara University 
Welcoming the Stranger: Hospitality in the Christian Tradition Special follotv~up event: Thursday, September 7 
l'in£da 

Immigration Issues: A Catholic Common Ground Conversation 
(3:30 jun. in Staj)leton Lounge) 
Wednesday, October 25 Claire Wolfteich, Boston University 

Wolfreich Women, Spirituality and the Workplace 

Monday, November 6 Saint Catherine of Siena An impersonation by actress Nancy Murmy, O.P. Voices from tile Past, Wisdom for Today, Hope for Tomorrow 
Munny 


Saint M:sColleg~
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 
Center for Spirituality www.saintmarys.edu/-cfs 
(574) 284-4636 • e-mail: astrotma@saintmarys.edu 
Ticket lottery is open to Notre Dame undergraduates only Each student f11ay bring up to 4 ID's for the chance to purchase tickets to the Michigan State game Winning numbers will be announced on September 8 in the Observer and on the SUB website sub.nd.edu Winners may purchase 2 face-value tickets beginning Monday, Sept. 11 at 9am in the LaFortune Box Office 


THE OBSERVER 

USINESS

Monday, September 4, 2006 page 7 

MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
11,381.15 -1.76
}ones 
Up: Some: Down: Co~ Volume: I ,933 164 I ,296 2,045,208,728.00 

NASDAQ
NY$£ .... 
S&PSOO 1,303.82 -0.45 
NIKKEJ(TokyOJ··;Ij\··til~{{l'ifil~i·!fi'll!llli,~l$';,~sl 
FTSE IOO(London) 5,906.10 -23.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) -0.10 -0.04 38.87 
INTEL CP (INTC) -1.36 -0.27 ~ 9.57 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -1.96 -0.10 4.99 
MICROSOFr CP (MSFr) -0.39 -0.10 25.70 
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU) -13.69 -0.36 
Treasuries 

I 0-YEAR NOTE -0.65 -0.03 I • 4.732 13-WEEK BILL -0.30 -0.0 I 5 4.905 30-YEAR BOND -0.69 -0.034 4.878 
5-YEAR NOTE -0.91 -0.043 4.692 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.23 70.26 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +8.1 0 634.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.75 91.50 
Excha Rates 

YEN 117.2100 
EURO 0.7810 
POUND 0.5253 
CANADIAN$ 
1.1 043 
IN BRIEF 
CEO: Ford must change practices 
DEARBORN, Mich. -'-Ford Motor Co., the nation's No. 2 automaker, must change the way it does business in order to make a turnaround, the company's head said in an e-mail to employees. 
"The business model that sustained us for decades is no longer sufficient to sustain prof­itability," wrote chairman and chief executive Bill Ford. 
Ford said he has organized his approach to solving the company's problems by focusing on three areas: accelerating its North American turnaround effort, leveraging its global assets a 
"It is important to note that all of the issues that some onlookers view as 'problems' for our com­pany are issues that I view as opportunities," he wrote. 
'These should not be days of 'fear' for the peo­ple of the Ford Motor Company as one headline put it recently," he wrote, adding that there was a "sense of uncertainty over specific tactics until some key decisions are made." 
He said the company was updating its busi­ness model and altering its structure to make Ford "a stronger, more competitive company." 
MySpace to allow music downloads 
LOS ANGELES -MySpace.com will soon enable members of the popular online social networking hub to sell downloads of their original music directly through MySpace Web pages, company executives said. 
The initiative, which is still in a test phase, has the potential to turn millions of computer users, many of them independent or aspiring artists already using the site to build a fan fol­lowing, into online music retailers. 
Los Angeles-based MySpace was expected to formally announce the venture and its part­nership with San Francisco-based Snocap Inc., which developed the technology, on Tuesday. 
Chris DeWolfe, MySpace's chief executive, said the online music venture is a logical pro­gression for the Internet portal, given chang­ing trends in the music industry that have made it more affordable for bands to make quality recordings and make them available online. 
"A band in Iowa can now reach out to fans in Los Angeles," DeWolfe said Friday. "Now they have a great way to reach out to 6 million fans." 
Stocks rise on August jobs data 
Lower unemployment, stronger wage growth prompt late-week market rally 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Wall Street ended an erratic week with a big advance Friday after the La.:bor Department said employers added 128,000 jobs in August, signaling that an economic slowdown might not be as severe as some have predicted. The major indexes ended the week with gains. 
The report bolstered the view of some on Wall Street that the Federal Reserve might leave rates unchanged when it meets Sept. 20. The Fed didn't touch rates at its Aug. 8 meeting, interrupting a string of 1 7 straight increas­es since 2004. Some investors, who have been concerned that the economy will slow too quickly, regard prospects of further rate increases warily 
The added jobs, slightly more than the 125,000 economists expected, brought down the country's unemployment rate to 4. 7 percent from a five-month high of 4.8 percent in July. During the past 12 months, wages grew by a strong 3.9 percent, the Labor Department said. The last time the figure was higher was iil June 2001. 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 83.00, or 0.73 percent, to 11,464.15. 
Broader stock indicators also posted gains Friday. The Standard & Poor's 500 index gained 7.19, or 0.55 percent, rising to 1,311.01, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 9.41, or 0.43 percent, to 2,193.16. 
Bonds were little changed, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note closing flat at 
4. 73 percent from late Thursday. The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices fell. 
Oil prices, which retreat­ed earlier in the week after Tropical Storm Ernesto moved away from oil equip­ment in the Gulf coast, again slipped below $70 a barrel, in part as a U.N. deadline regarding Iran's 
IRS audits may favor the wealthy 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Internal 
Revenue Service has been auditing 
more high-income taxpayers b~t may 
not be effectively going after one of 
the biggest problems -wealthy peo­
ple who evade taxes by reporting too 
little business income or overstating 
business expenses. 
The reason is that IRS auditors 
most often conduct audits of high­
income taxpayers by correspondence, 
said a report by the Treasury office 
that oversees the tax collection 
agency's operations. In those cases, 
the IRS sends letters to taxpayers 
asking them to verify information on 
their returns. 


nuclear ambitions expired without immediate conse­quence. Crude oil settled at $69.19 a barrel, down $1.07, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies was up 1.03, or 0.14 percent, clos­ing at 721.56. 
Wall Street had been awaiting the nonfarm pay­roll report in a week of light but uneven trading ahead of the long Labor Day week­end. Investors are keeping tabs on the unemployment rate both as an indicator of how quickly the economy might be slowing and out of concerns over wage infla­tion. 
Jerry Wehman, chief economist at Oppenheimer Funds, contends the absence of any major sur­next year," he said, citing a prises in the unemployment drop in fed funds contracts report is good news. "What for next July. the stock market doesn't The major indexes, which need over the next few fluctuated intraday months is more volatility." throughout the week as He cautioned, though, that investors tussled with eco­the market's reaction sug­nomic concerns, managed gests it is anticipating fur­to end the week with ther uneven trading amid respectable gains. The Dow continued concerns about rose 1.60 percent, while the energy prices, a cooling S&P 500 added 1.23 per­housing market and unem­cent and the Nasdaq gained ployment. 2.47 percent. 
"I think they were just In corporate news Friday, what the Fed was looking General Motors Corp. post­for," Jeffrey Kleintop, chief ed a 3.9 percent increase in investment strategist for U.S. light vehicle sales last PNC's wealth management month and trimmed its department, said of the fourth-quarter production employment figures. forecast by 12 percent, a "Today's data moved the move that was expected. markets from thinking the The world's largest Fed's done to predicting a automaker was up $1.09, or rate cut by the middle of 3.7 percent, to $30.27. 
Fewer audits actually require high­income taxpayers -those reporting $100,000 or more in income -to sit through intensive, face-to-face exami­nations 
Those audits could turn up more evidence of missing business income or overstated deductions for business expenses, J. Russell George, the Treasury Department's inspector gen­eral for tax administration, said in a new report. 
"These types of taxpayers and issues are difficult to examine through correspondence," the inspec­tor's report said. By their nature, audits by letter are "less complex and issues are limited" when compared with traditional audits, it added. 
The IRS has increased the number of intensive face-to-face audits of wealthier taxpayers over the last few years, even though its budget has remained basically flat. 
Kevin Brown, who heads the IRS small business and self-employed division, agreed that intensive audits find more unreported income. "The observation is correct," he said. "We don't think we're doing enough there, and we want to do more." 
Both types of audits -those by mail and in person -have increased in recent years, reversing a slide in IRS tax law enforcement that started in the late 1990s. 
The IRS examined 1 in 65 tax returns filed by high-income individu­als and families and 2005, higher than the 1 in 116 examined in 2002. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, September 4, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
Bush's back to Katrina relief 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gorrumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EmmR: Ken Fowler ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDimR: Kelly Meehan PHom EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Alberr 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGpR: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 63!-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4 543 sporrs.1 @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POliCIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q=tiom regarding Observerpolides should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gi!kmn. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The ~rvu (USPS 599 2-4000) is publishe-d Monday through Friday ac-ept during exam :md vacation period&.. A subscription to The Observer is $100 for one aculemic year; $55 fur one sanest«. + 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining H.UI Stud add.resa: oon«tions co: 
Notre D;une. IN 46556..0179 '11>< Ob!e<va 
Periodial postage paid ~t Notre Dame P.:OT Box m 

and .additional mailing offi.:es. 024 Sourh Dining Hall 
Nom Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Obsc:rvc:t is a member ofthe Associated Press. All reproduction righu are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Sports  
Kelly Meehan  Kate Gales  
Joe Piarulli  Jay Fitzpatrick  
Steve Kerins  Deirdre Krasula  
Viewpoint  Scene  
Joey King  Cassie Belek  
Lianna  
Brauweiler  
Graphics  
Jarred Wafer  
Jeff Albert  

Just over one year ago, Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast indiscrimi­nately, taking nearly 2,000 lives and causing tens of billions of dollars worth of damages. The initial damage would give way to an intensely misman­aged rescue, relief and recovery by the government. We watched as images flashed across every network of people stranded on houses waving for help, bod­ies packed into the Superdome and citi­zens and police offi­cers alike looted stores. Reports of overcrowding, violence and rape poured out from the Convention Center and Superdome while water rushed in. The Gulf Coast flooded while Bush played guitar. Literally. 
On this one year anniversary, having a short memory and a long list of photo ops is the name of W's game. One week ago Bush began a tour of the Gulf Coast, beginning a series of speeches and appearances. The content of his various speeches and interviews could be characterized as optimistic, intense­ly unapologetic and downright oblivi­ous to the realities of the ravaged region. Bush's ability to sympathize with the people of the region who lost everything they had is best represented in this statement: "United States Senator Trent Lott had a fantastic house overlooking the bay. I know because I sat in it with he and his wife. And now it's completely obliterated. There's nothing." 
Well, yes. There's nothing except for Trent Lott's political station and his wealth not to mention the lawsuit he filed against State Farm regarding his insurance payout. Besides these irrele­vant details, however, Lott is pretty much in the same boat as everyone else in the region. You'd think that Bush 

Will 
McAuliffe 
Strategery Analyst 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
What is the biggest deterrent to living off campus? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
would have learned to leave Trent 
Lott's house out ol' Katrina speeches since he made the same mistake upon his first post-Katrina arrival to the region, no sooner than five days after 
the hurricane. 
An interview with Brian Williams on MSNBC was neatly framed by brightly colored, freshly built homes; freshly built by the charity organization Habitat for Humanity as denoted by the banners on their porches. The only thing missing from the tranquil subur­ban scene was people. There were no people in the homes, just Bush mulling around outside with Brian Williams talking about all the b.ooks he's read and how well the administration has served those in need. He shared with Williams, in a rare moment of honesty, part of his strategy: "The key for me is to keep expectations low." Well, Mr. President, I don't think that the people clustered in FEMA trailers can afford to expect little from yo\], let alone the remainder of the country that you rep­resent to the global community. 
It's a sad day when the leader of the free world thinks it's clever to keep expnctations low. It's an even sadder one when he pulls it ofT. 
Bush's commitment to an unwavering message seems to be the only constant in his strategy besides the aforemen­tioned low expectations. This is likely due to the fact that he doesn't read the newspapers, as he's proudly stated on numerous occasions, as they are full of analysis and opinions rather than pure facts; facts that can be obtained through unbiased, objective sources such as personal aides and Secretaries of Defense. 
His naivete peaked with such motiva­tional lines as "I stood in Jackson Square and I said we're gonna help ya, and we delivered," (from the Brian Williams interview) and "Houses will begat jobs, jobs will begat houses." 
The only thing more atrocious than Bush's intense confusion of tenses is his grasp of economic theory. The concept that all we need to do is build houses for jobs to appear, or vice versa, is extremely condescending towards those who have been struggling to find either a home or a job in the former cities and towns. You cannot just create houses and have an economy pop back onto its feet, nor can you wave a magic wand and have generic, one-size-fits­all jobs appear in a community. His oversimplification of the situation tells us that his understanding of post­Katrina recovery is no better from the ground now than it was from the air a year ago when he simply surveyed the scene from the comfort of Air Force One. 
The work that is being done by vari­ous NGOs and volunteers such as those featured in last Friday's Observer arti­cle is a testament to the incredible gen­erosity and humanity that can be found in a crisis. However, there is only so much that can be done by volunteers. The government has the power and resources to bring the region back to life. What is needed is for the govern­ment to coordinate the plans and resources of the various NGOs and communities in a comprehensive plan that addresses all the issues. The gov­ernment also needs to assess what is not being done in the region and what role it can play in filling these gaps. 
While moving through tables and people at a breakfast, Bush passed a black waitress who jokingly asked, "Mr. President, are you going to turn your back on me?" to which he replied, "No ma'am. Not again." 
Georgie, you're doing a heck of a job. 
Will McAuliffe is a senior Political Science major with a serious love for the Colbert Report and Fox News. All letters ofsupport, disdain or funny Backer experiences should be forward­ed to his personal assistant at mcauli­ffe.4@nd.edu. Go Irish. 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

~,._~---=~---="""'-.-.,.-:c '~\. 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
t • 
.. . • * 


'There are no great things, only small things with great love. Happy are those." 
Mother Teresa humanitarian 



THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Monday, September 4, 2006 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Middle East tensions continue 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Misconceptions inhibit progress 
In his Letter to the Editor ("Civilization, ceasefire and surrender," Sept. 1), Matt Alles addresses many good points when discussing the current situation in the Middle East. Unfortunately, many of his points are one-sided and shortsighted. His first questionable point is about the IDF destroying Lebanese infrastructure to prevent re-supply­ing of Hezbollah, a resistance group, with weaponries. However, he does not mention that these roads were the only way for innocent Lebanese to escape the Israeli aggression. He also forgets to mention how Israel dropped leaflets asking civilians to leave their homes so the IDF could destroy their homes, which were suspected of hous­ing Hezbollah, The Party of God. Does that make sense, Israel asking civilians to leave their homes with no dri­vable roads to escape on? While he openly attacks Arabs, he forgets to mention the atrocities Israel has caused. 
Also, Alles' harsh words about Syria are incorrect. While he may be correct on the questionable women's rights, he is completely incorrect and unfounded in his attack of its lack of minority rights. If Alles would only study Syria rather than just believe what the media reports on Syria, he would be surprised to find that Syria treats its minori­ties very well. Syria has had a long history of being kind to all that need help. When Armenia suffered its Holocaust from Turkey, Syria opened its borders to allow all Armenians to flee to safety. Maybe Alles will insist that the Armenians are Muslim and that is why Syria openly accepted them, but he would be incorrect again. Most Armenians are Christians. Many people assume that the elected president of Syria, Bashar al-Assad, must be a Sunni Muslim since most Arabs are Sunni. This assump­tion is incorrect because the Assad family themselves are a minority. They belong to the Alawite group of Muslims. 
While I can not argue about his points on Iran, I can defend my points on Syria as I am part Syrian and have family that still resides in Syria. Iran is a different country than Syria and can not be equated to Syria, as Alles has done. Alles' argument that Syria is uncivilized is unfound­ed, unjust and just plain incorrect. 
Naseem al-Helo senior Fisher Hall Sept. 3 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
~ERE ~DERlNG ~LL M\L\TANfs To'F1kt Roc~ETS 
\~To 'S~EL iU 

America's support ofIsrael damaging 
Clare Feeney's Monday Letter to the become the most influential political play­Editor ("Israel's a terrorist state?" Aug. er in Iraq. 
28) presents an argument too often As Feeney indicates, though the cease­labeled as taboo in America. Over two fire ended direct military actions, the "ter­weeks have passed since U.N. Security ror is not over." It is estimated that over Council Resolution 1701 brought the fight­100,000 American-made cluster muni­ing between Israel and Hezbollah to a tions still lie unexploded across southern halt. As those affected by the conflict pick Lebanon. These cluster bombs, a violation through the rubble and debris, the politi­of International Law when used in civilian cal realities are slowly becoming visible. areas. are killing and maiming people Though the U.S. support of Israel was every day while an Israeli sea and air backed as an effort to eliminate global ter­blockade inhibits restoration. The rorism, the latest conflict has stirred up Humanitarian Affairs office at the U.N. popular forces that will only gain in recently stated that "90 per cent of the power, become more extreme, and ulti­cluster bomb strikes occurred in the last mately weaken our security. 72 hours of the conflict when we knew 
Whether helping to reconstruct the war there would be a resolution." ravaged civil infrastructure or building Ifwe are indeed attempting to rally political support across the region, the global support by engaging in "a war of flag of Hezbollah is waved jubilantly as ideas" as outlined by the Bush "Made in America" signs stand atop the Administration, our unconditional support rubble. The level of support Hezbollah has for Israel throughout its disproportionate garnered in Lebanon is a microcosm of campaign has merely amounted to, as the growing public support in the Middle Feeney states, "a devastating loss not only East. Even allies Egypt and Saudi Arabia. for the Lebanese, but for America's sup­hardly the democratic models, felt pres­posed campaign to end global tyranny." sure from their citizens in the initial stages of the war for not standing with Jamal Mridi Hezbollah. Furthermore, a recently pub­junior lished report out of the U.K. indicates that Siegfried Hall Iran, the key backer of Hezbollah, has Aug. 31 
Rethink broad groupings 
Ryan Davidson would be well­communes; if he feels diplomacy is advised to clarify the precise target of illegitimate in this case, then diplo­his recent Letters to the Editor; in his macy has never been legitimate. two letters, he targets two different Finally, and most importantly, his groups, though there are deep prob­argument has now devolved into lems in both instances. denunciations of figments of his own 
On Tuesday, he denounced 'the imagination: no one is proposing Muslim world.' Based on the content diplomatic negotiations with al-. of this letter, it would seem that, at Qaida. Rather, those of us who dis­the very least, he is grouping togeth­agree with Mr. Davidson argue that er everyone who has lived in a pre­the only way to quash violent funda­dominantly Muslim community in the mentalist movements is to first Middle East over the past twelve cen­understand the reasons why individu­turies. This is an absurd proposition, als choose violent fundamentalism as like grouping together the population a reaction to the oppressive circum­of Europe over the same period of stances in which they live, whatever time into one homogeneous mass the cause of this oppression. Such known as 'Christendom.' understanding should not be mistak­
By Friday, his wording shifted to en for a rationalization or apology. denunciations of 'terrorists.' First, if The rhetoric which proclaims fun­he means this letter to be continuous damentalism essentially irrational with the first one, it is a gross mis­and prohibits any effort at under­take to identify the groups he has in standing is, in my eyes, utterly ani­mind with the population of 'the thetical to any plausible approach to Muslim world' as a whole-indeed, building just, modern civilizations in it is precisely the sort of mistake for the most war-torn parts of the world. which Clare Feeney chastised him. Second, by his criteria, there has Dan Hicks never been a truly civilized communi­grad student ty in the history of the world, with the off campus possible exception of some pacifist Sept. 3 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 10 
Monday, September 4, 2006 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Rooney disappoints packed crowd at Legends 
Band fails to perform in intimate setting 


JESSICA LEE/The Observer 
Rooney underperforms during its concert at Legends. After touring with Kelly Clarkson all summer, the band played to a far smaller audience Saturday. 

The band prevents guitarist Taylor Locke from proving his exceptional talent. Several of his guitar solos were shortened and overlooked at Legends. 
By PAUL SERAFY Scene Critic 

Rooney has something to prove, but the biggest obstacle standing between the band and success is the fact that the group doesn't realize it. This L.A. based quintet has talent bursting through the seams of its trademark bell-bottoms, but it surely fell short of displaying it to its fullest capacity this Saturday at Legends. 
Though Rooney enjoyed a mediocre degree of success with its 2003 self-titled release, it is by no means a seasoned veteran of the music industry. At this point in a band's career, it needs to treat every show that it plays like it was their last. Rooney failed to do so, however. The onstage attitude of lead singer Robert Carmine could be expected from a front man with several albums released, not to mention years of non­stop touring under his belt. But Rooney can not yet enjoy that comfort on stage. 
After playing for an audience of 20,000 in Seattle, an audience of more than 700 fans gathered at Legends, many of whom lined up two hours before the concert. Those numbers would surely seem to be a change of pace for the band. Most artists live for this level of intimacy with their fans. 
SUB and Legends both did their part to attract fans to the concert, as the venue brimmed slightly over capacity. However, Rooney's performance was sloppy ­plenty of screws needed to be tightened up for a smaller, more intimate venue, where musicians are under a micro­scope. Rooney sat on its last release for three years, touring sparingly and over­estimating the amount of anticipation among fans that its sophomore album would build. 
Given the aptitude that Rooney has, the band should have taken this per­formance seriously. Its audience expect­ed it to -but it didn't. Carelessness and technical hurriedness were present at Legends Saturday evening. 
A fairly new band like Rooney should care about building and reinforcing its reputation in all circles of music lovers, especially among fans at a venue as small as Legends, but the desire to do so was not apparent from start to finish. The band seemed to rush through songs, struggled with keyboard arrangements and probably could have used another hour of sound checks to achieve an instrumental balance that it sorely lacked. 
Elements of Rooney's performance that should have shined and ignited the small space between the group and its fans were overshadowed. Guitarist Taylor Locke is one of the best in the industry, but Saturday's audience would not know this unless they had listened to the band's studio recordings. 
While most rock bands showcase and take pride in their guitarist's ability, Locke was pushed aside by the band, deprived of the opportunity to display his incendiary ability. His slide guitar on the band's opening song, "Blueside," added flair to the Beach Boys inspired pop-rock song, but solos on unreleased material like "She's Got Everything" and "Paralyzed" were hurried and short­winded. 
Carmine's vocals and high-energy per­forming style were largely inconsistent. He proved to charm the girls in the audi­ence out of their minds on songs like "Daisy Duke" where he nailed the lyrics and melody, but had to work hard to hit notes correctly on "Terrible Person." Vocal harmonies that typically tie band members' talents together -one of Rooney's usual assets -were rendered ineffective by Carmine's failure to hold certain notes in an attempt to experi­ment with melodies throughout the set. 
To his credit, drummer Ned Brower kept the band's energy alive throughout the concert, adding rhythmic elements to the performance that redeemed the band during build-ups before choruses when verses were weak. He proved to fill holes where his band mates made mistakes like, the frail beginning of "Sorry, Sorry." The performance lacked the strong, catchy synthesizer-based riffs that play a key role in many of Rooney's songs. 
Perhaps Rooney's biggest shortcoming on Saturday could be found in the per­formance of its new songs. "Paralyzed," "I Don't Think So," and "Not So Easy," were run of the mill, guitar-based arena rock anthems that seemed to be inspired by Styx and Whitesnake. This resulted in a downward turn away from the Electric Light Orchestra-influenced rock that gave them their unique California sound. 
Rooney seems to have tragically lost its identity on new songs. With this loss of identity, it risks losing its audience. The harder-edged sound that it strives to achieve may prove to hack away at a core fan base that appreciates Rooney's catchy rock songs and the band's ability to evoke memories of summers spent on the beach. Conversely, it just wrapped up a tour headlined by pop-princess Kelly Clarkson, but expects credit as a rock band. 
The biggest question Rooney faces is, "What's next?" It acts like an established rock band on stage, but the group has yet to arrive. If Saturday's performance is any indication of what fans can expect from Rooney's new release in October, it's likely that the band will continue to juggle mediocrity and arrogance. 
Contact Paul Seraf}r at pserafy@nd.edu 
I JESSICA LEE/The Observer Bassist Matthew Winter contributes to Rooney's weak performance. Newer songs played Saturday seemed to depart from the band's roots and may isolate its fans. 



NSIDER 
OTHE 

Monday, September 4, 2006 BSERVER Notre Dame 14, Georgia Tech 10 
Escape frotn the Jackets' nest 
Irish struggle early, recover in time to beat Georgia Tech 14-10 in opener 

By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
ATLANTA-Brady Quinn did­n't want to waste any more time getting out of Atlanta. 
The Notre Dame quarterback hulled over Georgia Tech's 46 yard line with just over a minute remaining Saturday night for the game-icing fourth-and-one conversion as the Irish held off Georgia Tech for a 14-10 win. 
"We only had half a yard to go," said Irish coach Charlie Weis, when asked why he decid­ed to go for it on fourth down. "I wanted the players to know you have confidence in them to get a half a yard when the game is on the line." 
The play was a fitting ending to a contest in which the Irish held Tech to just one touch­down, but never broke away from the pesky Yellow Jackets. 
In fact, it was the often-criti­cized defense that Weis credited for enabling No. 2 Notre Dame (1-0) to escape Bobby Dodd Stadium with a victory. · 
"I've challenged the defense every day," Weis said. "[The defense is] the reason why we won the game." 
The Irish shutout Tech (0-1) in the second half and held Tech All-America receiver Calvin Johnson to one touchdown reception, while only three other Yellow Jackets caught passes. 
In his first career start at line­backer, part-time running back Travis Thomas tallied four tack­les -two of them for a loss ­and Maurice Crum forced a cru­cial punt when he sacked Tech quarterback Reggie Ball for a 14-yard-loss on third-and-long with just over six minutes left in the game. 
The Yellow Jackets never got the ball back. Thomas and Darius Walker ­who finished with 99 yards on 
22 carries -pounded out seven carries before Quinn's sneak sealed the win. 
Quinn finished 23-for-38 for 246 yards and no touchdown passes on a night when he accomplished more with his feet -scoring Notre Dame's first touchdown of the season on a quarterback draw just before halftime. 
The senior signal caller took the snap at Georgia Tech's five yard line with the Irish down by 10 and 11 seconds remaining in the half and hustled up the mid­dle into the end zone. 
It was the only touchdown he would tally on the night, with the other Irish score courtesy of Walker, who scampered 13 yards off left tackle midway through the third quarter to put Notre Dame ahead for good. 
Many of Notre Dame's prob­lems were self-created,.but Weis didn't leave without giving Georgia Tech credit. 
"We expected this ... [the Yellow Jackets] didn't surprise me with what they did," he said. "We didn't have our best show­ing, but I'm happy with the out­come of this game." 
"We knew it was going to be a dog fight going in," Quinn added. 
Several Notre Dame miscues -including 11 penalties and two missed field goals -kept the Yellow Jackets around longer than the approximately 15,000 Irish fans who got into the game would have preferred. 
The Irish racked up 20 penalty yards in the first four minutes of the game -two false starts and a holding penalty on receiv­er Rhema McKnight that nulli­fied a 22-yard reception by Jeff Samardzija from Quinn. 
Tech quarterback Reggie Ball -known more for his running than his passing -actually had more yards through the air at halftime than Quinn. But the Irish secondary held him to just four completions for 23 yards after the break. 
The Yellow Jackets stung the Irish early when All-America receiver Calvin Johnson leapt over Notre Dame cornerback Mike Richardson for a 4-yard touchdown reception. The gold­clad crowd of 56,680 -fired up after a pre-game fighter-jet flyover -roared, and a 30-yard Travis Bell field goal with 4:45 left in the first half gave the Yellow Jackets a 10-0 lead and hope for an upset. 
But the second half didn't turn out like the first for Tech. 
"Everything that [Notre Dame] did on defense was the same that we practiced for," said Tech running back Tashard Choice, who carried 14 times for 54 yards. "They just made the plays." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Brady Quinn  0-for-4  Brady Quinn's touchdown run  'We didn't have our best showing, but  
I'm happy with the outcome ofthis  
The senior didn't have his best  Georgia Tech's third down  Jtlth no time outs left, Quinn dove into  game."  
game but stepped up during pivotal moments and made few, ifany,  conversions in the second half  the end zone with I I seconds remaining in the first halfto cut the  Charlie Weis  
mental errors.  Tech lead to three.  Irish coach  

r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 4, 2006 

report card 
8­A­B+ C­
c 

8+ 

C 
special teams. West and Grimes were
+excellent on kickoff returns, and Price 
averaged 50.4 yards a punt. But Carl Gioia missed two makeable field goals. 
C 
coaching: It took Weis a while to figure out that he couldn't let Quinn continually check-offto dump passes to the side, and 
the offense sputtered much of the night. On the flip side, the defense looked vastly improved, as did the return game. 
2.42 
overall: Notre Dame got an important victory on the road despite its mostly sloppy play. 
adding up the nuinbers 
First half points scored by Notre Dame. It 
7 

tied the Fiesta Bowl as the lowest total for the team under Charlie Weis. 
16 
Yards receiving Calvin Johnson had in the second half. Johnson made two catches in 
the final two quarters. 

Irish freshmen who played in the game. One, 
8 

offensive lineman Sam Young, started. 
10:50 Notre Dame's time of possession edge over Georgia Tech 
Tackles Travis Thomas made in his first game at 
4 

linebacker. Thomas made two tackles for a loss. 
246 
Yards passing by Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn 
Turnovers by either team in the game. Neither 
O 

team even fumbled. 
11 Penalties called against Notre Dame that cost the Irish 80 yards. quarterbacks: Quinn did not play up to anyone's expectations Saturday, over­throwing mid-and long-range passes. Nevertheless, Quinn's touchdown run and big plays allowed the Irish to win. 
running backs: The underrated hero of 
the game was Asaph Schwapp, who 
picked up the blitz excellently to save Quinn from several sacks. Walker started slow but finished strong. 
receivers: McKnight beat cornerback Kenny Scott most of the game and finished with eight catches for 108 yards, and Samardzija's big catch in the fourth helped seal the victory. 
offensive line: Freshman starter Sam Young was beaten often, senior left tackle Ryan Harris committed two unneccessary penalties late, and Quinn was under constant pressure. 
defensive line: The defensive line allowed Tech tailback Tashard Choice to be too productive in the first half, and Reggie Ball easily got past the line on several occassions in the second half. What's more, Ball had all day to throw. 
linebackers: Travis Thomas and Maurice Crum showed good recognition of Ball's draw plays, but neither could prevent Ball from gaining yards. Choice got by the two on several occassions, as well. 
defensive backs: The defensive backs held receivers not named Calvin Johnson to 29 yards. Freshman Darrin Walls played bravely, and Ambrose Wooden shut down Johnson late. 
special teams: It was a mixed bag for 
DUSTIN MENNELLA/The Observer 
Irish quarterback Brady Quinn looks to throw in the first half of Notre Dame's 14-10 win over Georgia Tech Saturday. Quinn did not play up to his own standards against the Yellow Jackets but made several key plays in crucial situations to lead his team to victory. 


Quinn has a very nice bad game 
ATLANTA-Notre Dame's Heisman Trophy candidate didn't make a great case for himself most of the day Saturday. Luckily for the Irish, even on his off nights, he's still good 
enough to get the job done. 
"We're in no way pleased with our per­formance, espe­cially myself," quarterback Brady Quinn 


said after Notre 
Ken Fowler

Dame's 14-10 win. "I felt like this game could 
Sports Editor 

have been a lot more wide open if I ~auld have fulfilled my job bet­ter. 
Without throwing a touchdown, Quinn pulled himself together when it mattered most -like only the savvy veterans do. 
As he marched the Irish down­field in the final 4:45 of the first half, the senior looked like the quarterback who directed a 21­point comeback against Michigan State a year ago. 
Quinn's performance was remi­niscent of the Michigan State game in a lot of ways-except for one. A year older and a season smarter, Quinn didn't put balls in bad places that could lead to turnovers or touchdowns. 
He threw 38 passes. Only one was tipped. 
Quinn didn't fumble a single time, and the offensive captain scored a touchdown on a quarterback draw with 11 seconds left in the first half. 
"He got the look that we were counting on," Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis said. 
He always does. 
Even if the showing was good enough to win the game, it won't be good enough to win the Heisman Trophy-or Quinn's own approval. 
"We've been practicing for a while so there's no excuse to make for [my performance)," Quinn said. "So I've got a lot of work to do on my own this week. We're not even thinking about Penn State yet." 
Weis said he will dole out con­structive criticism in heavy doses over the next few days. 
That's just what Irish fans want to hear -no matter how good Quinn is, there's always room for improvement. 
That statement is true, and it's how Notre Dame will win ball­games. But the body of work he needs to improve upon is a testa­ment to just how good Brady Quinn is. 
He started the game completing most of his passes, but the majority were high-percentage quick outs behind the line of scrimmage that 
led to short gains. Quinn managed the he missed open "[Georgia Tech's game like a Heisman receivers more blitzes were] often than the
Trophy hopeful should, 
causing check­winners usually 
offs due to pres­even ifhe missed open do. sure," Weis said. receivers more often It wasn't a "Some of the great perform­
than the winners 
[plays] worked, ance, or even a
usually do. 
some of them did-good one by that propelled Notre Dame to a 14­10 lead, and Quinn had the respon­sibility to save the win. 
lie did. 

lie directed an eight-play, 62­yard drive in the team's first series after taking the lead. The series only stalled when Rhema McKnight dropped a ball that hit his number a tad too hard and Carl Gioia missed a short field goal. 
In Notre Dame's next-and penultimate -possession, Quinn hit Jeff Samardzija deep on the right sideline after Notre Dame started the series in its own red zone. The throw fell just over Samardzija's left shoulder-where only one 6-foot-5 man could catch it. 
It was the best throw of the night by a quarterback who has made many better throws. But he man­aged the game like a Heisman 
Trophy hopeful 
should, even if 
n't." 
Late in the sec­ond quarter, his longest completion to a wide receiver was a 9-yard hookup with Rhema McKnight. He had just two completions of more than 10 yards -both dump-offs to tigh~ end John Carlson. 
So as Tech continued to key on the side passes, Weis adjusted and called several no-check plays to force Tech to honor the run. That worked, and Quinn improved as the game wore on. 
Basically, it comes down to this: in big spots, Quinn delivers. 
Darius Walker converted on a brilliant scamper to the left pylon Quinn's own 
judgment. 

But Irish fans should take solace in the fact that their team's signal­caller can play "poorly" and yet complete 23-of-38 passes for 246 yards while also rushing for a touchdown and allowing no turnovers. 
High standards certainly are nice. 

The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu 

Monday, September 4, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Irish 'D' sends a clear message 

Notre Dame's defense has a new number to focus on 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
ATLANTA -Maybe 73 will be the new 617. 
Locked in a low-scoring affair, Notre Dame's highly criticized defense held Georgia Tech's explosive offense to z'ero points and just 73 total yards in the second half, carrying the Irish on a night when their top-1 0 offense from the year before just never found its rhythm. 
"Our much-maligned defense that everybody's telling me about, that's all I've heard this off-season -617 yards," Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis said. "If I hear that again, I'm going to vomit." 
After entering the field to hostile chants from the hostile crowd, the Notre Dame defense took it upon itself in the second half to earn the victory for the No. 2 team in the nation. 
"We just wanted to show that we can win games with our defense," Irish strong safety and defensive captain Tom Zbikowski said. "We wanted to 
DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer 

come out and silence the 'Overrated' Notre Dame freshman cornerback Darrin Walls tackles Georgia Tech wide receiver chants in the stands as soon as possi­Calvin Johnson in the first half of the 14-10 Irish victory Saturday. ble." 
Zbikowski led Notre Dame with six solo tackes and two assists for eight the game to cover All American Calvin better against Johnson. The unit held total. Johnson on most plays. the junior to just two catches and 16 
"I thought the defensive staff and "We know that Darrin Walls has yards in the final 30 minutes. defensive players showed up tonight," cover skills," Weis said. "We knew that "He basically was shut down, and on Weis said. before we got him. The one thing he's top of it, we gave up no points in the 
Irish running back Darius Walker, going to learn is, now he's playing with second half," Weis said. who rushed for 99 yards on 22 carries, big boys, not playing with a bunch of Without a solid passing game, Yellow agreed. high school kids anymore." Jackets quarterback Reggie Ball, who "The defense really deserves the For the most part, Walls kept Johnson improvised on several second-down 
win," he said.  from breaking a big  plays to  cause problems for the Irish,  
Walker's backup :!n~~;ning T~~~t~  "We wanted to come out and silence the 'Overrated'  play. But midway through the second quarter, Johnson  ran eight times for 58 of Tech's 73 yards in the half. "There were a lot of things we did  
Thomas, playing in  chants in the stands as  shielded the 5-foot­ pick out in film study and a lot of things  
his first game at linebacker, made  soon as possible.,,  11 Walls on a lob pass from Ball and  we hadn't seen before," Thomas said. Weis was most happy with the mental  
four  tackles  made the grab at  strengths of the unit and Tech's 20 per­ 
including two for losses. "I wasn't sure  Tom Zbikowski Irish safety  Notre Dame's 12­cent conversion rate on third downs -yard line for a 40­including 0-for-4 in the second half. yard gain. "On defense, we had no penalties,  
how fast the tempo  "Everyone  sees  okay?" Weis said. "You have two men­ 

would be on the defensive side of the the one play for 40 yards," Weis said. tal errors and no penalties in play with ball," Thomas said. "Tonight I think we "But that wasn't the only play that was that type of emotion; get off the field on held our own against two great players lined up against him..:. You didn't see third down, that's usually going to bode in Reggie Ball and Calvin Johnson." the rest of the plays when [Walls and well for your defense." 
Thomas wasn't the only newcomer to the other defenders] were there with the defense. After senior cornerback [Johnson], too" Ambrose Wooden was shaken up early, But when Wooden returned in the Contact Ken Fowler at true freshman Darrin Walls entered second half, the Irish defense only got kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Morton leads team in Victory March 
Senior honors father after win, says he felt his dad's presence throughout the contest 
dad's face would have been linebacker Phillip Wheeler go and make the next one."' 
By MIKE GILLOON 
there on the sidelines," he was whistled for an illegal Sports Writer 
told reporters after the helmet-to-helmet hit on Four x 100 game. "And part of me is Notre Dame quarterback + Irish receiver Rhema 
ATLANTA-He felt him at really happy that I know he Brady Quinn. McKnight finished with 108 the opening snap. He felt had a better seat." "He was in bounds, I hit yards on eight receptions ­him as he surged ahead for Morton spoke of the sup­him," Wheeler said. "I do the fourth 100-yard receiv­the game-winning first port he has received from not think it should have ing game of his career. down. He felt him as he led his teammates' parents and been a penalty." His career high came in his teammates in a post­also a post-game hug from Neither did his fellow stu­2003 against Boston game Victory March. his coach. dents. College, when the then­
Irish offensive guard Bob "It was ... a well of emo­When the referee sophomore racked up 121 Morton said Saturday that tions that was only height­announced the personal foul yards on just four recep­his father's presence was ened by Coach Weis opening penalty, a plastic water bot­tions. always on his mind as he his arms -which he does­tle flew out of the stands helped lead Notre Dame to n't do very often. I don't and landed right at his feet. Walking tall its season-opening, 14-10 know where I would have + Darius Walker reached victory at Georgia Tech. been without him and some Negative news the 2,000-yard rushing 
"There are not many of the guys on this team." + Notre Dame's Carl Gioia mark for his Notre Dame things in this world that I will probably receive more career Saturday night. can't put into words," said It's raining bottled water media attention than usual The Irish running back Morton, when asked about + Georgia Tech's public this week after the senior entered th.e Georgia Tech how he felt walking off the address announcer twice kicker missed two field game with 1,982 yards after field a winner less than two had to ask Yellow Jacket goals Saturday night. But he two seasons. His 99 yards weeks after he lost his fans -mainly students -won't receive any negativity on 22 carries now gives him father, Robert, to stomach from throwing plastic bot­from Weis. 2,081. cancer. "This feeling is one tles and trash onto the field. "I talked to Carl about it," of them." The uproar began in the Weis said. "I said, 'You Contact Mike Gilloon at 
"Part of me wishes my third quarter when Tech missed two field goals, you'll mgilloon@nd.edu • 
•

scoring summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th 

Notre Dame  0  7  7  0  
Ga. Tech  7  3  0  0  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 0, Georgia Tech 7 
Galvin Johnson 4-yard rececplion from Reggie Ball with 0:35 remaining. (Travis Bell kick) Drive: 7 plays, 74 yards, 1:28 elapsed 
Second quarter Notre Dame 0, Georgia Tech 10 
Total 
14 10 

Bell 30-yard field goal with 4:45 remaining. Drive: 8 plays, 50 yards, 3:29 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7, Georgia Tech 10 
Brady Quinn 5-yard run with 0:11 remaining. (Carl Gioia kick) Drive: 14 plays, 80 yards, 4:34 elapsed 
Third quarter Notre Dame 14, Georgia Tech 10 
Darius Walker 13-yard run with 6:33 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 14 plays, 64 yards, 5:29 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
No scoring 

statistics 

total yards rushing yards 


passing yards return yards time of possession 



~ 
40-138 23-38-0 5-252 0·0 11-80 21 
rushes-yards comp-att-int punts-yards fumbles-lost 
r~

\.If' 
28·119 12-24-0 7-337 0-0 
penalties-yards 5-28 first downs 
14 
passing 

Quinn 23-38·0 Ball 12-24-0 
rushing 

Walker  22-99  Ball  11-55  
Thomas, T.  6-19  Choice  14-54  
Schwapp  3-13  Stephens  3-10  

receiving 

McKnight Samardzija  8·108 6-74  Johnson, G. Johnson, J.  7-111 2-10  
Carlson  4-36  Smith  1-9  
Walker  4-18  Dunlap  1·9  
Freeman  1·10  Choice  1-1  

punt returns 

Zbikowski 4-30 Clark 3-24 
kickoff returns 

Grimes 1-46 Dunlap 1-17 West 1-33 Grant 1-18 
punting 

Price 5-252 Brooks 7-337 
tackling 

Zbikowski Grum Ndukwe Richardson Thomas, T. Laws Walls Abiamiri Frome Lambert Wooden 
8 Wheeler 
6 Clark 
5 Scott 
5 Anoai 
4 Hall 
3 Oliver 
2 Robertson 
2 Jones 
2 Guyton 
2 Walker 
2 Richard 13 8 

7 
6 5 5 4 3 3 3 2 
-
-
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 4, 2006 


SOUTHERN HOSTILITY 
Notre Dame slipped out ofthe grasp of the Yellow Jackets in the season opener Saturday and won by running the ball in the second half. In front of an electric crowd of 55,000, Georgia Tech's defense 
shut down the Irish ofl'ense for most of the first two quarters but couldn't stop Brady Quinn from diving into the end zone with 11 seconds left in the half. The outcome was in doubt until Quinn leapt over a pile of Notre Dame and Tech linemen with just more than a minute remaining in regulation. The win wasn't as pretty as the Irish would have liked -but they'll take it. 

Photos by DUSTIN MENNELLNThe Observer Top left, wide receiver David Grimes returns a kickoff In the first half. Top right, safety Tom Zbikowski shakes a tackler on one of his four punt returns. Bottom right, running back Darius Walker splits defenders in the second half. Bottom left, wide receiver Rhema McKnight turns upfield after one of his eight catches. Center, Irish defensive end Victor Abiamiri takes down Tech running back Rashaun Grant. 
-
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Monday, September 4, 2006 page 11 
BE 


Football around the globe 
By CHRIS McGRADY 
Scene Wrirer 
In the center of London roved four Americans: three of my best friends and myself. Armed with a pint, a camera and a pocket full of hopes and dreams, my mates and I sought an English experience that was quin­tessential in its identity, superior in its "English-ness" and, perhaps most importantly of all, cheap. 
Loathsome of the touristy nature of Trafalgar Square and Westminster Abbey, we set out in search of a real­English experience, something to really write home about. A place where maybe for a moment, we could 
set ourselves apart In England and around adored, but is even from our American the world, [soccer] is more so a way of life. identities and thrive To them, sport isn't a
not only fervently 
in a culture so very facet of life, it is life. different from our adored, but is even For my friends and me, own. more so a way oflife. To this was truly some­
OK. Fat chance. thing to behold.
them, sport isn't a facet 
Vehemently seek­Utmost importance is ing to lose ourselves oflife, it is life. For my placed on football and in a throng of friends and me, this the cheers and events English-types, we surrounding it. We sat
was truly something to 
arrived at Craven near a group of hooli­Cottage, the stadium behold. gans who could teach and I were left to interpret. Needless to say, it didn't go well. 
The sentence translates to this: "The coach made an intriguing move in over-time, substituting the left for­ward, who is very good at faking peo­ple out, in favor of a midfielder, who despite playing well in the World Cup, cm,Ildn't even score with the ball sit­ting on the goal line just waiting to be put in. You have to question if he is in shape." But it is about more than the language -it is about the very level to which these fans take their fanati­cism. 
Only America has truly failed to embrace the sport of football -or soccer. However, in England and 
around the world, it is 
not only fervently 
for the Fulham Football Club. Once there, it was painfully obvious to every one that we were the token Americans. In fact, the idiocy of Americans (or perceived idiocy) may be no more evident than at a football match. 
Everyone in the stadium immediate­ly knew we were American, no matter how hard we tried. First of all, just take into account the fact that Americans most definitely do not speak English. We speak -well ­American. 
For example, translate the following sentence: "The Gaffer made a cheeky move in extra-time, sending off the left striker, so adept at selling the dummy, in favor of another middy who, despite a productive Cup, could­n't seem to finish the sitter. You have to wonder if he is match-fit." 
Yes, this is just one example of the typical English jargon that my friends even the most hard­
core Notre Dame fans a bit about dedication. So deep are the roots of Fulham fans that includ­ed in the programs sold during the match -alongside rosters, biogra­phies and statistics -are obituaries. These people literally live and die for their teams. 
Almost every person has a team that is "theirs," and year in and year out, rain or shine, these people eat, sleep and breathe football. But one thing struck me as Notre Dame pre­pared for kickoff this weekend against Georgia Tech and 100 Notre Dame students packed a bar until 
5:30 a.m. to catch the game. I started to realize that maybe, despite a thou­sand things that set us apart, we aren't so different after all. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd.edu 
By TAE ANDREWS Scene Wrirer 
The immortal English playwright William Shakespeare once wrote, "All the world's a stage, and all the people merely players on it." Nowhere is this more true than in the wide world of foot­ball, where a contest of will between two teams of 11 men becomes a battle of good versus evil, played out in two acts and four quarters. 
Whether it's the rock-star status of professional athletes or the big man on campus status of Brady Quinn, there's no denying that sport has a flair for the dra­matic, blurring the line between sport and theatre. (See USC-Notre Dame last season, specifically one Reggie Bush.) 
As a junior studying abroad in London, I decided to foray into the wide world of English football, which despite sharing the same name, is very different from our own American version of football (rounder ball, continuous action, less contact). However, at the same time there exist some veins which run true throughout all of sport, regardless of country, language and ball type ­hatred of the refs and loud cheering. 
In the sports parlance here, the word "football" denotes not the Saturday and Sunday crunching of pads and gridiron glory, but rather the more appropriately named football with the greater empha­sis on kicking. And kicking is exactly what Notre Dame abroad students will be doing -kicking themselves, should the Irish go undefeated in their 2006 campaign. 
A major part of the study abroad expe­rience is watching Notre Dame football games not from the familiar and cozy confines of the student section of Notre Dame stadium, but from the relatively new vantage point of a pub in London. 
And while sitting in a crowded, smoke­filled pub watching the Irish gut out a gutsy 14-10 win over Georgia Tech, it occurred to me that football isn't just a sport, isn't just entertainment-it's a religion. And all of us fans are the con­gregation. 
Football is the collision of sport, the­ater and religion, all crashing into each other on a grass field painted with white lines. The players are the actors, por­traying in turn the hero and the goat, depending on the outcome of the game. And if we are doing really well, then they turn into something else: champions, demi-gods, idols for hero worship. 
The audience, on the other hand, is the congregation, fervently hoping, wishing, and praying. They show their faith by cheering, whether the announcers of football games, the vox populi, are screaming "He ... could ... go .... all ... the ... way!" or the more concise, "Gooaallllll!" Fan support in wallet and in person is undying, as evidenced by sold-out home game attendance and merchandise sales. 
Don't believe me? Even at uber­Catholic Notre Dame, where Stonehenge should probably run with holy water instead of your typical H20, how many students miss an occasional Mass or two? Take that number, then compare it to the number of students who miss an occasional home football game. I'd be willing to bet that there are more lapsed Catholics than there are lapsed Fightin' Irish football fans. 
Also as undoubtedly, the guy sitting next to you is probably sporting his home team's colors, whether it's the blue Tradition shirt of the student section or the light blue of English Premiership soc­cer club Chelsea. You see, sports fans, in addition to being gluttons for punish­ment, are emotionally transparent: we wear our hearts on our sleeves, whether it's a No. 10 kelly green-and-gold throw­back or just a heartbroken gaze of stunned disbelief as Reggie Bush pushes Matt Leinart across a goal line. 
Regardless of country, language or even the type of football being played, one thing is for sure: the masses will gather in great dithyrambic stadiums of steel and stone to sing songs, drink copi­ous amounts of beer and pour our heart and soul in support of team and nation. 
Just don't underestimate the impor­tance of football. As English Premiership Liverpool coach Bill Shankly once said, "Some people believe football is a matter of life and death. I'm very disappointed with that attitude. I can assure you, it is much, much more important than that." 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu 


-
CLAIRE KELLEY!The Observer Irish players Jeff Samardzija, left, and Maurice Stovall achieve similar heights Sept. 17,2005, proving that football players and fans around the globe aren't very different. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 4, 2006 
MLB-NL 

Howard's three homers blast Phillies past Braves 
Rollins and Shane Victorino hit
Cardinals beat Pirates; 
RBI singles off Bob Wickman (0-1) in the bottom half. 
Mets fall to Astros 
"A wild finish, but the thing is we won the game," Manuel 
Associated Press 

said. 
PHILADELPHIA -With each Geoff Geary (7 -0) got two home run, Ryan Howard is outs in the ninth. The Phillies keeping Philadelphia's wild­entered Sunday one game card push alive. behind San Diego in the NL 
Howard homered in his first wild-card standings. three at-bats, raising his major Jamie Moyer allowed three league-leading total to 52, and runs and six hits in 7 1-3 the Phillies rallied after wast­innings in his home debut for ing a five-run lead to beat the the Phillies. Moyer, a Atlanta Braves 8-7 in Sunday's Pennsylvania native, made the doubleheader opener. school's hall of fame at nearby 
Howard's 50th home run was Saint Joseph's. 
a solo shot in the second Hudson gave up six runs and inning, and he followed with <;1 six hits in seven innings. two-run drive in the third. His "Today was a tough one, very third homer was an opposite­disappointing," Hudson said. 
field, solo shot to left in the Moyer allowed Edgar sixth that made it 6-1. He leads Renteria's solo homer in the the major leagues with 133 first but settled down against a RBis. lineup missing third baseman 
Each homer, all off Tim Chipper Jones and second Hudson, was greeted ·with a baseman Marcus Giles. Jones standing ovation and chants of was a late scratch with a sore "M-V-P!" as Howard rounded oblique muscle on his left side. 4-1. "Was I trying to hit the first zone so much, a guy can hit it 
the bases. Willy Aybar started for Jones. "If that's the case," he said, one, the second one, the third here or there. When you throw 
"That last homer he hit I Giles returned to Atlanta for "we need to bring those kids one?" Pujols said. "No, I just a lot of strikes, it's hard to get thought was his most impres­medical tests. He missed more often." try to have good at-bats. Like I a no-hitter." sive one," Hudson said. "It was Saturday's doubleheader and Pirates pitcher Ian Snell said say, it's not about me, it's about For most of the game, the a four-seamer up and away. It visited a Philadelphia hospital, he had to laugh after Pujols' my team." Mets struggled to even make was off the plate away. This is where he said he was told he third straight home run off contact. a great park for him, too. It may have a heart defect. him. He also said he felt like Astros 2, Mets 1 Oswalt struck out the side in will definitely bring confidence With the score 1-1 in the giving last year's NL MVP a Fresh off signing a $73 mil­the third and ended the fourth to him as hitter." third, Rollins hit a go-ahead high-five. lion contract extension, Roy and fifth innings with strike­
The reigning NL Rookie of triple and scored on Victorino's "I mean, that's unreal," Snell Oswalt is showing his worth to outs. He allowed three hits in 7 the Year became the 23rd play­single. Todd Pratt hit a two-run said. "That's like Superman the Houston Astros. 2-3 innings. er to hit 50 homers. He broke homer for the Braves in the playing baseball." Oswalt took a perfect-game "Roy always has a good fast­the previous mark for second­eighth. Pujols connected with the bid into the seventh inning and ball," Houston manager Phil year players, set when Ralph bases empty in the first, and struck out a season-high nine Garner said, "but I think his Kiner's hit 51 for Pittsburgh in Cardinals 6, Pirates 3 hit two-run drives in the third as the Astros beat the New breaking ball was exceptional 1947. Albert Pujols has a daughter and fifth, all off Snell (12-9). York Mets Sunday despite get­today. He had great arm 
A fan jumped over the with Down Syndrome, and the He's 4-for-6 with four homers ting just one hit. action." dugout onto the field and St. Louis Cardinals' annual and seven RBis against Snell, "Overall, stuff-wise, this was Chad Qualls finished the bowed at Howard before his "buddy walk" game always and with 42 homers reached probably the best I've had in a eighth, and Brad Lidge finished fourth at-bat, in the eighth. seems to bring out his best. the 40-mark for the fourth while," Oswalt said. "I had all for his 29th save in 34 chances. Howard lined a single against Children with Down straight season. It was his third four pitches working." The Mets failed to complete reliever Macay McBride for his Syndrome circled the field in three-homer game, his second Oswalt (11-8), who signed the what would have been their second career four-hit game. pre-game ceremonies, and of the season. five-year extension on Tuesday, first three-game sweep in 
"What can you say? It's unre­then stood with players at their Philadelphia's Ryan Howard didn't allow a baserunner until Houston since 1984 and lost al," Phillies manager Charlie positions during "The Star­homered in his first three at­Jose Reyes beat out a bouncer for just the second time when Manuel said. "It's a credit to Spangled Banner." More than a bats in a doubleheader opener to shortstop leading off the sev­allowing a single hit. The first him and his hard work." few asked him to hit a home against Atlanta. It was the first enth. Adam Everett tried for a came was against St. Louis on 
Howard broke Mike run for them. time two players homered barehanded pickup but could­Sept. 14, 1991, when Ray Schmidt's Philadelphia season He then homered in his first three times on the same day n't come up with the ball. Lankford hit a two-run single record when he hit his 49th three at-bats, honoring Isabella since Pujols and Cleveland's Oswalt said he didn't start off David Cone in a 2-1 game. against Washington on Pujols and all special needs Travis Hafner did it on July 20, thinking about a perfect game "It's a strange game line, but Thursday night. children in a victory over the 2004. It was the first time a until just before Reyes' at-bat. that's baseball," Randolph said. 
Albert Pujols of St. Louis Pittsburgh Pirates on Sunday. pair did it in the first three "I knew I had a long way to "Not too many opportunities, a homered in his first three at­"It's always good to do some­plate appearances since go, nine outs to go," Oswalt sacrifice fly here and there. bats during a 6-3 win over thing special for those kids, but Cincinnati's Johnny Bench and said. "Mentally, it's tough. You Real strange game." Pittsburgh. It was the first time I don't try to put pressure on Atlanta's Orlando Cepeda -a make one mistake over the Orlando Hernandez (9-1 0), two players homered three myself," Pujols said. "It doesn't pair of Hall of Famers -on plate and they can hurt you." who hadn't pitched since Aug. times on the same day since matter if they're there or not. July 26, 1970. Oswalt was surprised it last­20, struck out four and walked Pujols and Cleveland's Travis I'm just going to try the best I Pujols missed a bid for a ed that long. He throws mostly six in 5 1-3 innings as the Mets Hafner did it on July 20, 2004, can to help my team to win." fourth homer in the seventh strikes and expects opponents lost for just the third time in according to the Elias Sports Since Pujols became with a drive to left off Brian to hit him every time he pitch­their last 16 games. Bureau. spokesman for the "buddy Rogers that was caught by es. The Mets had rested the 40­
With a 6-3 lead in the ninth, walk" games in 2002, he's 9-Jason Bay just shy of the warn­"They happen more to guys year-old El Duque because of Fabio Castro allowed a three­for-20 with five homers, nine ing track, protesting afterward who don't throw as many fatigue, but Hernandez was run, opposite-field homer to RBis and seven runs scored that he never tries for the long strikes as I do," he said. "A lot encouraged by his 106-pitch right by Matt Diaz. But Jimmy while the Cardinals have gone ball. of times, when you're in the effort. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the None Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Rent a home NO football week- Rental homes 3-6 bdrms. Close to  FOR SALE: NO TICKETS. 232­ 00 NO alum seeks multiple ND/PSU  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
WANTED  ends. 574-784-8638. NOW LEASING FOR 2007-2008  NO. Call Ga~ 574-993-2208.  0964 Need 4 ND-PSU tix-75 alum seeks  tix for my bachelor party trip. Will pay top $$! Please help! Contact Derek at dengelkemey­ not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue  
SOCCER REFEREES -needed for south side elementary school, local- STADIUM CLUB CONDOMINIUMS Spacious 2bdrm 2ba.  FoR SALE  4 for PSU game 9/9/06. Pis call 714 523 0601 or email:  er@hotmail.com  Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in  
ed near Erskine Golf Course on  Washer/Dryer. Call Susan Miller at  aherenda@ comcast.net  WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS.  The Observer.  
Miami Street. $35.00 per soccer  243-7530.  Condo for sale 2 bdrm twnhse call  TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY  
- game. Call574-291-4200.  269-445-2765  Need NO tix & parking pass all  WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726.  A win is a win, a loss is a loss.  

 BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam­ home games.  Only twelve more wins left to go.  
FoR RENT  pus homes & weekend rentals. Bluegoldrentals.com  Investment homes for sale near NO. 866-521-8989.  57 4-276-8507. A BUSINESSMAN PAYING TOP$$  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK­ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232­2378.  From Styx: "Lady, when you're with me I'm  
2 rooms in private home w/sepa­rate entrance for football weekends.  B&B (cont.) 2 night min. 3.3 mi. to NO  TICKETS  FOR SEASON TIX OR INDIVID­UALGAMES.  TOP$ PAID FOR ND FOOTBALL  smiling Give me all your love  
Shared bath. Close to ND.574-259­ 272-6305  CALL MARK 574-277-1659.  TKTS  Your hands build me up when I'm  
8603.  NO vs Mich need 4 GAs together  289-9280  sinking  
New B&B available for ND-SMC  email  AN ACTUAL ABOVE-AVERAGE  Touch me and my troubles all fade  
2-3-4 bdrms. Share w/FRIENDS. 50% offdep.  events or anytime including extended stay.  davidrschulz@ yahoo. com  ABIDING FAN DE SPERA TEL Y NEEDS FOOTBALL TIX. ANY OR  PERSONAL  Lady, from the moment I saw you Standing all alone  
if rented by 1 0/1.  Wolfe.9@nd.edu or  WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251­ ALL GAMES. LOCAL CALL 654­ You gave all the love that I needed  
255-7000.  574-286-9995.  1570  0169.  www.ndgamedayroom.com  So shy, like a child who has grown"  



OUND THE NATION 
Monday, September 4, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVERs wrru: SERVICES page 13 
Major League Baseball American league East 
team record perc. last tO  .. GB  
New York 81-54 .600 5·5  
Boston 73·63 .537 3~7  8.5  
Toronto 70-66 .515 3~1<  11..5  
Baltimore 61-75 .449 5-5  20.5  
Tampa Bay 55-82 .401 3~7  21  
American league Central  
team record perc. last 10  GB  
Detroit 84-52 .618 3c7 ·  
Chicago 79·57 .581 5-5  5  
Minnesota 78-57 .578 5-5  5.5  
Cleveland 65-71) .481 8-Z  18.5  
Kansas City 51-87 .370 s.s  34  
American league West  
tPam record perc. last 10  GB  
Oakland 79-57 .581 8-2  
Los Angeles 71-65 .522 4-6  8  
Texas 70-68 .507 5-5  10  
Seattle 64-72 .471 7-3  15  
National league East  
team record perc. last10  GB  
New York 84-51 .622 7-3  
Philadelphia 69-67 .507 5·5  15.5  
Florida 68-68 .500 8·2  16.5  
Atlanta 64-71 .474 5-5  20  
Washington 59-77 .434 5·5  25.5  
National league Central  
team record perc. .tasttO  GB  
St. Louis 73-62 .541  
Cincinnati 68·69 .496  6  
Houston 67-70 .489  7  
Milwaukee 62-75 .453...  12  
Chicago 55·81 .404  18.5  
Pittsburgh 54-83 .394  20  
Nationalleag~~ w::t  
team record perc' lastto  GB  
Los Angeles 73-63 .537 7~3  
San Diego 70-66 .515 . 6-4  3  
San Francisco 68-69 .496 6-4  5.5  
Arizona 64-72 .471 2~8  9  
Colorado 6H3 .463 4·6  10  

PGA TOUR World Golf Rankings 
player events total points 
1 Tiger Woods 911.58 2 Phil Mickelson 401.30 3 Jim Furyk 433.76 4 Vijay Singh 444.37 5 Adam Scott 317.62 6 Retief Goosen 362.06 7 Ernie Els ··············· 272.85 8 Sergio Garcia 
. il .,. 282.70 9 Geoft Ogilvy ; 309.52 10 Luke Donald 11 · David Toms 12 David Howell 13 Chris DIMarco 14 Trevor lmmelman 15 Colin Moni!Jomefie 16 Jose Maria Olazahal 17 Henrik Slenson 18 Padralg Harringlon 19 TimCiark 20 Chad Campbell 
around the dial 
TENNIS 

U.S. Open, 11 a.m., 7 p.m., USA 
MLB 

Pittsburg at Chicago Cubs, 2:20 p.m., WGN Chicago White Sox at Boston, 7:05 p.m., Comcast Chicago 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Florida State at Miami (Fl.), 8 p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS 


As.sociated Press 

NEW YORK -Crouched alone in the silence of the locker room, a pro tennis player no more, a red-eyed Andre Agassi twisted his torso in an attempt to con­quer the seemingly mun­dane task of pulling a white shirt over his head. 
Never more than at that moment did Agassi seem so vulnerable, looking far older than his 36 years, wrestling not simply with his bad back but also with two overwhelming and con­flicting emotions. 
There was the concrete sense of departure, of knowing his career came to an end Sunday with a 7-5, 6-7 (4), 6-4, 7-5 loss to 112th-ranked Benjamin Becker in the third round at the U.S. Open. And there was the freeing sense of excitement, of knowing he has more time to devote to his wife, Steffi Graf, and their two children; of know­ing there are no more flights to catch, no more practice sessions, no more injections to dull the searing pain of an irritated sciatic nerve. 
That's why, for Agassi himself and the 20,000 or so fans who honored him with a raucous, four-minute standing ovation in Arthur Ashe Stadium after the match, it truly did not mat­ter all that much what Sunday's outcome was. This day and this tournament were all about saying good­bye to an eight-time Grand Slam champion who grew up in front of the world, from cocky kid with the shoulder-length hair and denim shorts to the thoughtful guy with the shaved pate and proper tennis whites. 
"The scoreboard said I lost today, but what the scoreboard doesn't say is what it is I've found," Agassi told the crowd, tears streaming down his cheeks, his voice cracking with emotion. "Over the last 21 years, I've found loyalty. You have pulled for me on the coirrt and also in life. I have found inspiration. You have willed me to succeed sometimes even in my low­est moments." 
He could have been refer­ring to his losses in his first three major finals, two at the French Open and one at the U.S. Open, setbacks that made him wonder if he'd ever reach the very top. Or, more likely, when. having won Wimbledon and reached No. 1, he sank to 141st in the rankings and resorted to playing in ten­nis' minor leagues in 1997. Or, most recently, when his back hurt so badly after the first two rounds of this U.S. Open, the tournament he announced this summer would be his last. 
IN BRIEF  
Roethlisberger to miss Steelers' season opener PITTSBURGH -Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger had an emergency appendectomy after becoming ill before practice Sunday and will miss Thursday night's season opener against Miami. Coach Bill Cowher is not certain how long Roethlisberger will be out follow­ing the quarterback's third operation in 10 months -and second in 2 1/2 months. "The surgery went well," Cowher said. "He is obviously going to be out this week and we will go week to week from there." Charlie Batch, the former Lions starter who was 2-0 as a fill-in last season when Roethlisberger hurt his knee, will start against the Dolphins in the NFL's first game of the season. "This is why Charlie is here. Charlie will be fine," Cowher said. "It's a situa­ starter go down, whether it's an ankle or something else of that nature. That's the nature of the business." Sorenstam sets course record to win State Farm Classic SPRINGFIELD, IlL -Annika Sorenstam waved to the raucous gallery, picked up the ball and tossed it toward a sky box after ending a nearly flawless day with a 20-foot birdie putt. It was the perfect finish to a round that carried her to an LPGA record and a victory at'the State Farm Classic. Down five strokes at the start of play Sunday, Sorenstam tied the LPGA mark for the lowest fmal-round score by a tournament winner with a 62. She shot 10 under for the day to finish 19 under, two strokes ahead of Cristie Kerr (67). "To come from five behind and to win by two, it's pretty amazing," Sorenstam said. "It's something I'm  Third-round leader Maria Hjorth (70) fell out of contention with a double bogey on the 16th hole and finished tied for third at 16 under with Seon­Hwa Lee (69) and Il Mi Chung (69). Charf;{ers' Foley shot three timesoy off-duty officer SAN DIEGO -Chargers line­backer Steve Foley was shot by an off-duty policeman in front of his suburban home Sunday. Coach Marty Schottenheimer said the wounds were not life-threat­ening. "All we're worried about is that he's OK," Schottenheimer told The Associated Press in a tele­phone interview. The early morning shooting occurred after the officer report­ed seeing a suspected drunken driver weaving in and out of traf­fic on an area highway and  -- 

tion that can happen to any football going to remember for quite some attempting to pull him over, said team. You can go out there and have a time." sheriff's Lt. Dennis Brugos. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 4, 2006 
PGA 
Singh sets new record vvith -10 
Woods shoots 67; three back after three rounds 
Associated Press 
NORTON, Mass. -All that hard work finally paid off Sunday for Vijay Singh, who shot the best round of his PGA Tour career and put himself in position to end another streak by Tiger Woods at the Deutsche Bank Championship. 
Singh played his first five holes in 5 under par, then tln­ished with three straight birdies for a 10-under 61 to set the course record at the TPC of Boston and build a three-shot lead over Woods, who shot 6 7. 
Two years ago, Singh went toe-to-toe with Woods in tlw final round on Labor Day and beat him by three shots to rise to No. 1, ending Woods' record 264 consecutive weeks atop the world ranking. 
Woods now has won four straight times on the PGA Tour. and Singh is poised to end that streak. 
"It would be good," Singh said. ''I'm not going to be thinking about his streak or beating him. I've been playing long enough to know that you don't go out there and worry about the guys who are play­ing with you. You worry about your own game and see what happens." 
There were no worries Sunday. 
Even more impressive than his score were the miserable conditions in which Singh shot his 61. 
A light rain at the start of the third round never let up, coating the fairways with a thin layer of moisture, making it difficult to keep clubs dry. With little wind, however, Singh took dead aim at the flags and was never too far off. 
"This is one of the worst conditions you want to play golf in because it gets every­thing wet," Singh said. "I just kept on plodding." 
And he kept making birdies, finishing at 11-under 202. 
Woods had a chance to get closer, if not catch him over ~ the final two hours after Singh 
was done. 
Woods missed four birdie putts inside 15 feet on the back nine, including putts of 10 feet on No. 15 and 8 feet on No. 17. 
He looked out of sync over the closing holes, letting his hand fly from the club even on shots that turned out well. There was frustration even when he reached the par-5 18th in two, setting up a two­putt birdie that put him in the final group with Singh. 
Justin Rose also birdied the 18th for a 69, leaving him tied with Woods at 205. 
-
J.J. Henry, three weeks away from playing in his first Ryder Cup, shot 68 and was at 207, along with Shaun Micheel (68). 
"Hopefully, I can play a little better than last time," Woods said of his duel with Singh. "I just know that tomorrow, given that conditions are as soft as they are, I'm going to have to make some birdies." 
SuP-SLIDING AwAY 

LAURIE HUNT/The Observer Irish midfielder Ashley Jones defends the ball from a slide tackle by Broncos midfielder Tiffany Roberts in Notre Dame's 3-1 win Sunday over No. 1 Santa Clara. Notre Dame also beat USC Friday night 2-0 to win the Inn at Saint Mary's Classic. 
oftft:IIV 

September 11, 2001 
Face to Face:The Iraq~ US LaborSolidarityTour" (2006, 27 min.) d«umeotary breaks through the media walls that k~p Iraqi aod tabor volce-s outofthe debate the war In the United States. ifMeeting Face to Face~ brings the vol<es ofIraqi working people directly the'<:onverntioo a:> we consider the war and continuing occupation and what the next steps should~. 
Monday, October 30, 2006 t'Harlan County, USA'' {1976, 103 min.) 
his film documents the coal miners'strike against the Brookside Mine of the Ea.stover Mining Company in Hattan County, Kentucky, in June, 1973. Director Barbara Kopple puts the strike Into p£tspective by giving us some background on the hlst<>tical plight of the mlne,.s and some history of the UMWA. 
Monday, February 5, 2007 "The Take" (.2004; 87 min.)In suburban Buenos Aires, thirty unemployed auto--parts workers walk into their idle factory, roll out sleeping mats and refuse to leave. All they want is to re·start the silent machines. But this simple act -the take-has the power to turn the globalization debate on its head. With "The Take,4 directof Avi Lewis, one of Canada's most outspoken joumali:>ts, and writer Naomi Klein, of the imematkmal bestseller No Logo, champion a radical economic :>nilrac.t·.-. for the 21st century, 
Monday, March 26, 2007 
"Farmingville" (2003, 78 min.) Winner of the Special Jury Pri.ze at the Sundance Film Festival, P.O.V. presents a provocative, complex and emotionally-charged look into the ongoing nationwide ct;,nttoversy surrounding a suburban community, its ever­expanding population ofi'llegaJ immigrants, and the shockingly hate·based 
attempted murd"rs of two Mexican day laborers, The New York Times described it as., ''A primer for anyone who c.:~res to better understand the usually unsel'm cost of America's appetite for cheap labor,~ 
Monday, April 2, 2007 "'ls Wai-Mart Good For America?" (2004, 60 min.} 
FRONTLINE explores the relationship between U.S. job losses and the American onsumer's insatiable desire for bargains. Hedrick Smith elt:amim:~s the growing controversy over the Wai-Matt way of doing business and asks whether a single retail giant has changed the Amerlcan economy. FRONTLINE offers two starkly contrasting images: one ofempty storefronts in GrdevUle, Ohio; the other, a sea of high rises in the South China boomtown of Shenzhen. 
All films will be shown from 4:3o-6:00 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium C-1 00 
Free and open to the public 
~UNIVER. SITYOF 
WNOTREDAME 
Monday, September 4, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
No. 19 Penn State upends Akron in season opener 
Michigan edges Vandy; USC handles Arkansas 
Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. -On his first pass as Penn State's starting quarterback, Anthony Morelli showed coach Joe Paterno that his offense was in good hands. 
The throw sailed through rain­drops and over two defenders into the end zone. Morelli pumped his fist after wideout Deon Butler came down with a 42-yard touchdown pass to give Penn State a 7-0 lead. 
The strong-armed junior threw for two more scores and 206 yards and No. 19 Penn State showed some different wrinkles on defense to defeat Akron 34­16 at rain-soaked Beaver Stadium. 
Morelli, replacing last year's do-it-all leader Michael Robinson, did make a few mis­takes, including a third-quarter fumble. With a trip looming next week to No. 2 Notre Dame, Paterno offered cautious praise. 
"I thought he started out well, did a good job, but overall he was fine," said Paterno, in his 41st season as head coach. 
Akron coach J.D. Brookhart was a little more gracious. 
"That kid can throw from one half to the other, 20 yards deep," Brookhart said. "You won't see a better arm this year." 
Morelli also connected for TD passes with Jordan Norwood and Derrick Williams for Penn State (1-0), delighting fans bun­dled up in rain slickers after the remnants of Tropical Storm Ernesto drenched Happy Valley. 
Highly recruited coming out of high school, Morelli watched from the bench his first two sea­sons at Penn State. Robinson was instrumental in guiding Penn State's explosive offense last year. There were questions about how the Nittany Lions would look this year with a new leader and an offensive line fea­turing four new starters. 
The running game struggled, and Tony Hunt, who ran for 1 ,000 yards last season, gained just 36 on the ground Saturday, though Hunt did have a late touchdown. 
"I think they got their (butts) kicked in today," Paterno said about the offensive line. "Simple as that." 
But given time to throw, Morelli clicked with his talented receiving corps. 
"He just kept a level head today," said Butler, who had two catches for 50 yards. "He never got nervous or mad when he came back to the huddle." 
Trailing 17-3 at halftime, the Zips (0~1) gained some momen­tum after Penn State freshman 
A.J. Wallace fumbled the sec­ond-half kickoff at midfield. 
Luke Getsy kept the ensuing drive alive by hitting Kris Kasparek for a 12-yard gain on fourth-and-7 from the Penn State 16. On the next play, Dennis Kennedy bowled over Justin King to get into the end zone for a 4-yard score -but Matt Domonkos missed an extra point -and Akron cut the deficit to 17-9. 
Wallace redeemed himself on the next kickoff with a 54-yard sideline-to-sideline return to the Akron 40. Morelli found the sure-handed Norwood for a cou­ple completions before connect­ing with Williams down the left sideline for 20 yards and a 24-9 lead. 
Getsy finished 22-of-42 for 160 yards with one touchdown and two interceptions, while Kennedy ran for 59 yards on 25 carries. 
"We made too many mistakes to have a chance to win that football game," Brookhart said. 
Penn State often employed three linemen and four lineback­ers on defense instead of the 4-3 scheme that worked well for Penn State last season. 
Three linemen graduated off last year's starting line while Penn State is stocked at line­backer, including All-American Paul Posluszny, so the 3-4 look plays to the Nittany Lions' strength. 
"We don't show that often," defensive coordinator Tom Bradley said. "We wanted to set the tempo in the game." 
Two third-quarter series typi­fied Akron's frustrations. One drive stalled after Getsy, under pressure on third down in the backfield, found David Harvey for a 5-yard pass before he was immediately hit by Anthony Scirrotto. 
No. 14 Michigan 27, Vanderbilt 
7 

Michigan was solid early and late in its opener. 
In the middle of the matchup against Vanderbilt, Mike Hart acknowledged the Wolverines were sluggish offensively. 
The shifty running back ran for 146 yards to lead No. 14 Michigan to a victory over the Commodores on Saturday. 
"We made a lot of mistakes that were drive-killers," Hart said. "That's one thing we can't have in bigger games. Every time you win, you're going to be happy. But we need to improve a lot to be a championship con­tender." 
Michigan has another tuneup, against Central Michigan, before visiting No. 2 Notre Dame. 
"We have a lot of work to do," coach Lloyd Carr said. "That's for sure." 
The Wolverines are coming off a 7-5 season, their worst since going .500 in 1984. They have their lowest preseason ranking since 1997, when they went on to win a national championship. 
Michigan scored on an impres­sive opening drive and had a chance to build an early cushion, but Vanderbilt blocked a kick and scored on a trick play to pull within three points early in the second quarter. 
The Wolverines went ahead 20-7 late in the third on Chad Henne's 14-yard pass to a leap­ing Tyler Ecker on a third down. 
Michigan sealed its eighth straight home opener by forcing quarterback Chris Nickson to fumble for a second time with 
4:33 left near midfield, leading to Henne's 27 -yard pass to Mario Manningham. 
Henne finished 10-of-22 for 135 yards with two TDs. 
"It definitely wasn't my best, but we'll see next week how much improvement I make," he said after throwing some poor passes and having a few dropped. 
No. 6 USC 50, Arkansas 14 

If this is what a rebuilding year looks like at Southern 

USC needed a little help get­ting started, and the Razorbacks provided it with five turnovers ­three while the game was still in doubt. 
"We can't give a team of their caliber that many opportuni­ties," Arkansas quarterback Robert Johnson said. 
Arkansas running back Felix Jones fumbled three times in the first half, and USC recovered two of them. Kevin Thomas returned Jones' last fumble 12 yards to the Arkansas 3. After an incom­pletion, freshman C.J. Gable ran for a touchdown to give USC a 10-0 lead. 
The Trojans led 16-7 at half­time, and Terrell Thomas' inter­ception early in the third quarter gave USC the ball at the Arkansas 28. Booty's 14-yard touchdown pass to Patrick Turner made it 23-7. 
USC has won 46 of its last 48 games. The Trojans went 12-1 last year, just missing an unprecedented third straight national title when they lost to Texas 41-38. 
Last year, the Trojans scored four touchdowns in their first eight plays against Arkansas. USC didn't strike as quickly this time, but had no trouble control­ling the ball against the Razorbacks, keeping it for 35:19. 
Booty went 24-of-35 for 261 yards and made few mistakes as he began the difficult challenge of replacing Leinart at quarter­back. 
"I thought he handled himself beautifully," USC coach Pete Carroll said. "Got us off to a ter­rific start." 
USC finally went on an extend­ed touchdown drive toward the end of the third quarter. The Trojans moved 80 yards in 11 plays, and Booty found Fred Davis in the back corner of the end zone for a 9-yard score. 
Darren McFadden had nine carries for 42 yards for Arkansas. McFadden, last year's Southeastern Conference fresh­man of the year, dislocated h.is toe in late July in a fight outside a Little Rock club. 
California, the rest of the coun­try could be in big trouble. 
John David Booty threw three touchdown passes in the second half, and the sixth-ranked Trojans rolled to a 50-14 win over Arkansas on Saturday night in their first game since Reggie Bush and Matt Leinart moved on to the NFL. 
"It's great," Booty said. "Some people have doubted us-didn't know really what we had. To be able to come out tonight and score 50 points -I thought our offensive line and our running backs did a great job." 
USC beat Arkansas 70-17 last year, but was expected to slip a bit without Leinart and Bush, the 2004 and 2005 Heisman Trophy winners. Instead, the Trojans exceeded the 49 points per game they averaged last season. 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS "W"ANTED BUYING & TRADING ALL SEASONS ALL GAMES & LOCATIONS 

18 YEARS CONFIDENTIAL SERVICE 
CASH PAID TODAY 
Preferred Tickets 234-5650 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 4, 2006 
SMC CROSS 
COUNTRY 
Outlook is strong for Belles 
Team looks solid in Alumnae Exhibition 
By BECK! DORNER Sports Writer 
The runners of the Belles cross country team started their fall season on a positive note as hosts this past Saturday at the Alumnae Exhibition Meet. The team posted faster than expected times for the course that measured a little longer than the usual 5K distance. 
Junior Megan Gray led the team with a 21:16, fol­lowed by Sara Otto, Katie White and Kelly Biedron who all clocked in near the 21:40 mark. 
"[Most of the times were] faster on the course this year compared to last," senior captain Meaghan Herbst said. "I know I was a minute and a half faster, and everyone felt good." 
Coach Jackie Bauers noticed solid performaces as well. 
"There were a few nice packs, and the girls worked together very well," she said. 
Herbst also observed strengths in the packs as welL 
"The pack in the front is much larger this year, which is very promising," she said. "The front group last year only had about three girls, and this year there should be about five or six that are consistent." 
As far as team strategy, it was crucial that the girls worked together to gain a tactical advantage running the newer, more taxing course. 
Bauers commented that the site of the race was more challenging, but the times were as strong or stronger than last season. The team will return to the course for the MIAA Jamboree meet on Sept. 23. 
The Belles' next contest is the Aquinas College Invitational in Grand Rapids, Mich., on Friday. Last year at the Aquinas Invitational some of the top Belles' times were Kelly Biedron with a post­ed a 21:18, Sara Otto with a 20:16 and Katie White with a 20:42. 
Coach Bauters said she saw a lot of promise for her team, even at this early stage. However, there is always something
' 
upon which to improve.
'' 
"I think we can improve by closing some gaps within our top 7, but for as early as it is, I feel good about where we are," she said. ''I'm excit­ed to run at Aquinas this Friday." 
Contact Becki Dorner at rdorner1@nd.edu 
Hoosiers 
continued from page 20 
to record a hat trick since Devin Prescod accomplished the feat in 2003 against Cleveland State. 
"Joe [Lapira] can finish in so many different ways," Clark said. "He's quick, can shoot with both feet and he can head the ball. He's always thinking. That's possibly his greatest asset." 
While it wouldn't appear that way from the final score­board, it took nearly a half hour for the goal outburst to begin. The scoring, however, came in bunches as Notre as Lapira notched his second goal of the day only three min­utes into the second half on a header from a curling Ryan Miller cross into the box. Lapira completed his hat trick in the 55th minute when· he sent a powerful shot into the upper right hand corner of the net. 
"There were some great goals today," Clark said. "You're never happy when you give up four goals, but if you're going to give up four goals, it's good to do it on a day when you score five." 
With the win, Notre Dame improves their record to 2-1­
1. They will return home to open Big East play next Friday against South Florida, but 

Dame and Indiana went back and forth to score five goals in the final fifteen minutes of the first half. 
Lapira opened the scoring with a hard shot from the right side of the 18­yard box into the lower left corner of the Hoosier net. Indiana responded six 
defender and slipped the ball into the back of the net. 
Six minutes later, it was the Hoosiers back on top as they scored two goals only seventeen seconds apart. Indiana's Brad Ring scored on another long blast into the upper corner of the net, and 
"Joe [Lapira] can finish in so many different ways. He's quick, can shoot with both feet and he can head the ball. He's always thinking. That's possibly his greatest asset." 
Bobby Clark Irish coach 
Clark feels that the past two weekends have pre­pared his team well. 
" [ N e x t Friday] is going to be a big game, but we're getting used to play­ing big games," Clark said. "If you want to win a national title, you must play top teams, 
"You're never happy when you give up Jour goals, but ifyou're going to give up four goals, it's good to do it · on a day when you score five. " 
Bobby Clark Irish coach 
battled to a scoreless draw in double over­time at Bill Armstrong Stadium. 
"We played very well on Friday night, but I guess we were both sav­ing our goals for Sunday," said Clark. 
Although the overall statis-tics were even, 
ualityoff-campus tiousing 
Leasing for 2007-2008 school year 
Houses,. Townhouses, Apartments 
• Close to campus  • Washers & dryers  
• Student neighborhoods  • Dishwashers  
• Security systems  • Internet ready  
• 24-hour maintenance staff  • Lawn service  


Call today -properties rent quickly. Contact Kramer at 
(574) 315..5032 (cell) (574) 234•2436fofficej 
To view all of our houses, visit www.kramerhouses.com 
In the second half and over­time periods, Notre Dame out­shot Saint Louis 9-4 including holding the Billikens without a shot in the two overtime peri­ods. Clark credited the turn­around to some halftime adjustments. 
"We were giving fhem too much time and respect in the first half, so we talked about stepping up the pressure and being more proactive," he said. "That's what put us back in the game. We made them a lot more uncomfortable, and we saw a lot more of the ball as a result." 
Notre Dame's best chance came in overtime when Lapira blasted a rebound off a Kurt Martin shot, but it was saved well by Saint Louis goalkeeper Nick Billman, one of four saves on the night for Billman. 
Saint Louis had their share of chances as well and they almost opened the scoring in the 16th minute of the contest. A Billiken player got a header off on a corner kick, but soph­omore keeper Andrew Quinn got enough of the ball to tip it off the crossbar. Quinn, who made his first start a week ago against Creighton, had three saves on the night and has not given up a goal in his last 198 minutes on th!l field. 
"The game ebbed and flowed, but I felt that we con­trolled the last hour of the competition," said Clark. "[Saint Louis] has some excel­lent players, though, and they're a team that could fea­ture quite prominently come tournament time." 
With both games going to overtime this past weekend, three of Notre Dame's four games this season have gone to overtime. Clark sees this as a positive for his team. 
"We're getting used to these . overtime games," he said. "That's okay because it gives us good game fitness, and the good thing is that we've been the team forcing the game in overtime." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

minutes later when Kevin Robson ripped a shot from 18 yards out past a diving Cahill. 
Notre Dame regained the lead only eighteen seconds later when senior midfielder Ian Etherington chested the ball in the box, eluded his 
and you must beat them." 
Notre Dame 0, St. Louis 0 

Notre Dame and Saint Louis scored a combined ten goals in the adidas/IU Credit Union Classic. None of those came on Friday night as the two teams 
Yeagle gave the Hoosiers the lead when he deposited the ball into the top of the net from only six yards out. 
The teams picked up where they left off after intermission with Notre Dame out-shooting Saint Louis 12-10 and the Billikens holding the corner kick edge 5-4, the Irish clearly dominated play after the half­time break. 

Monday, September 4, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Sweep 
continued from page 20 
Coming off a 2-0 win over No. 19 Southern Cal (2-1) Friday night, the Irish (4-0) created opportunities early on and controlled possession, but could not find the net. 
Twelve minutes in, the Broncos' all-tournament striker freshman Kiki Bosio beat defender Christie Shaner to the middle of the field, before finding junior striker Meagan Snell in the middle of the box, who slid her shot by keeper Lauren Karas for the first goal of the game. 
Despite several direct kicks just outside the box before halftime by sophomore strik­er Kerri Hanks, the Broncos took their 1-0 lead into half­time. 
"There were a couple of things we addressed at half," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "We had to change our mentality. We gave the ball away too much." 
To spark the offense, Waldrum moved Shaner to the middle to replace defend­er Amanda Clark. By the sug­gestion of his son and assis­tant coach Ben Waldrum, Clark switched to defensive midfield to take the place of senior Jill Krivacek who moved to offensive midfield in the 4-4-3 set. Entering the game to replace Shaner's spot on the outside was freshman Haley Ford, as freshman mid­fielder Courtney Rosen ­who is still battling the injury bug-left the game. 
The moves helped strength­en a defense that Waldrum felt gave up too many scoring opportunities in the first half. Shaner's headers kept Santa Clara's air attack from reach­ing the goal. 
The moves also led to the first Irish goal. With 26 min­utes left in action, Cinalli attacked open space in the middle before dishing to a wide-open Krivacek, who two-touched from just inside the box to the upper right corner out of the reach of sophomore Santa Clara keep­er Megan McCray. 
Five minutes later, fresh­man Michele Weissenhofer lined a cross to an exposed back post for the lunging leg of Cinalli to redirect into the goal. Cinalli saved her best for last, though, scoring her second goal of the game less than 4 minutes later after came from behind or won it outmaneuvering several in the last few minutes of the defenders in succession and game. Today to be down to firing a left-footed rocket to such a good team like that the upper right corner to cap could be a big game for us off the Irish scoring. down the road -to come 


"In the first half they kind back and win and play so of dominated us in the air," well in the second half and Cinalli said after the game. turn things around." "Our entire team decided we The win marked the 31st 
have  to  keep  consecutive  
each  other  Irish home win,  
accountable, play together and play with a  "As early as the season is, I've liked  as this weekend Notre Dame won its third  
lot  of  heart.  this team and  and  fourth  
That was important .for us."  compared it to the 'o4 team.,,  straight con­tests against a 2005 NCAA  
Though disap­ Tournament  
pointed in Notre Dame's first half play,  Randy Waldrum Irish coach  team. Friday against USC,  
Waldrum  was  the Irish  con­ 
pleased  with  trolled posses­ 

his players' ability to rededi­sion for most of the first half, cate themselves at halftime but didn't find the back of the and storm back. Though net until the fourteenth Bosio -who Waldrum com­minute of the second half, pared to former Irish great when Weissenhofer lofted her Amy Warner -was the patented flip throw-in into offensive fireplug of the the box that Clark redirected Bronco offense throughout past Trojan junior goalie the day, the Irish were able to Veronica Simonton for her contain her in the second first career goal. half. Twelve minutes later, 
"As early as the season is, Weissenhofer got another I've liked this team and com­chance at a long throw in pared it to the '04 team," and, after losing the ball on Waldrum said. "That year we her first attempt, lofted had 10 games or so where we another perfect pass into the penalty area and into the goal -this time off the foot of Cinalli. 
The ball spent most of the first half in the Southern Cal end of the field as Notre Dame peppered Simonton with several scoring chances, but couldn't find the back of the net. 
"It was a little frustrating," Waldrum said. "I thought the work rate and the competi­tiveness the kids had was great, but we needed to finish on the offensive end. We lacked sharpness in the final third [of the field]." 
Late in the first half, the Irish had four corner kicks in the space of under a minute, but Notre Dame couldn't score on any of them. 
Notes: 

+ 
Team USA's Carrie Dew and Brittany Bock are expect­ed to rejoin the team early this week after finishing up the U-20 World Championships.

+ 
Karas recorded a careet:­high nine saves Sunday after earning the shutout Friday. She had been battling fresh­man Kelsey Lysander for the starting spot. 


Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu and Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

putting away No. 1 Santa the Irish helm, including the won national and world assists, playing a1ongside Clara 3-1 Sunday at Alumni senior anchors to the Irish championships, like sopho-weekend tournament MVP
Elite 
Field with two goals and one defense captain Kim more Carrie Dew, who -Cinalli and sophomore Kerri continued from page 20 assist. "[The early games] are Lorenzen, Christie Shaner according to reports Hanks, whose 71 points last 
just as important as ones in and midfielder Jill Krivacek. Waldrum has received from year were second in the grams this time of year, Notre the end." Though Waldrum's experi-Russia -is one of the best nation. Dame is one of those teams While Waldrum is not par-ence and acumen should go center backs in the U-20 As the Irish travel to Dallas that hopes to find that golden ticularly shy about saying without saying, he isn't the World this weekend to ticket to the finals as its sea-that the National only experienced Irish game-Championships, face TCU and son unfolds. Championship is his team's planner on the sidelines. His which has forced SMU, Waldrum 
Though the Irish players primary goal, he stresses the son, Irish assistant Ben her and sopho-"We had to have must find the and coaching staff will con-importance of every game as Waldrum, suggested moving more Brittany this game to put right equilibri­tinuously search all year for an equally defender Bock to miss the urn of playing
ourselves into a
just the right formula, it all important Amanda first four games time to keep all starts with simple addition. step Clark to the of the season. position to have a his weapons
It is an ambitious attitude 
One win over Iowa State plus towards midfield as Now that the good seed later in happy. Anum­
that the team has embraced 
Ole Miss plus USC plus Santa that objec-part of the two are back, hers game -yet
the year." 
Clara equals 4-0. All the wins tive. It is an and an easy decision in turnstile they present a another step in were earned one game at a ambitious second-half major challenge search of the
light of the x variable to
time, a concept that the Irish attitude that substitu-to Notre Dame's Amanda Cinalli formula for sue­
Waldrum's championship 
cannot lose among the the team tions in the championship Irish forward cess. And with dreams of tournament time has forumula -experience. middle of chemistry -how the SMU contest still two months off-or else embraced the Irish to incorporate slated for division isn't too far off. and an easy defense. two starters into a team broadcast CSTV, we'll get to 
If we're to believe the decision in light of the x vari-"He suggested it and [assis-thriving without disrupting watch them show their work. statements from players like able to Waldrum's champi-tant] Dawn [Greathouse] the mojo that the Irish have junior forward Amanda onship formula-experi-agreed and so did I," the ridden to an early No. 1 Contact Tim Dougherty at Cinalli, so far, so good. ence. elder Waldrum said. "That's national ranking. tdougher@nd. edu. 
"We had to have this game The Irish still have several when it's good to have good In their absence freshman The views expressed in this to put ourselves into a posi-key contributors from the assistants." Michele Weissenhofer has column are those of the tion to have a good seed later 2004 team that won it all in Notre Dame also has a host been the Irish point-leader author and not necessarily in the year," Cinalli said after the coach's sixth season at of younger players that have with two goals and six those of The Observer. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 4, 2006 
Tourney 
continued from page 20 
that we have to do [to get to their level]. It's going to take a little while, but we're going to get there." 
Santa Clara 3, Notre Dame 0 
No. 6 Santa Clara swept Notre Dame Sunday behind 28 combined kills by sopho­more Brittany Lowe and jun­ior Annalisa Muratore. 
The Broncos jumped out to an early 4-1 lead in game one and, after Notre Dame rallied to tie the score at six, went on an 11-2 run and coasted to the game victory. 
Santa Clara got off to a sim­ilarly fast start in game two, taking a 5-2 lead. Notre Dame battled back, but never man­aged to tie the score and lost 30-23. 
Game three saw the Broncos jump out to yet another early lead, this time 8-4. The Irish got within three at 21-18, but would never be that close again as Santa Clara took the game 30-23. 
Missouri 3, Notre Dame 2 
Notre Dame suffered its first loss of the season Saturday, a grueling 3-2 defeat to No .13 Missouri. 
The Irish took a back-and­forth first game 30-28, with Notre Dame freshman Christina Kaelin providing the final point with a kill after the Tigers had pulled within one. 
Missouri took game two by the same score, scoring four straight points -three on attack errors by Notre Dame -after falling behind 28-26. 
In game three, the two teams traded points until the Irish scored six straight points on freshman Jamel Nicholas' service to take a 13­8 lead and held off a late Tiger run to win the game 30­27. 
Game four was deadlocked at 12-12 when Missouri stretched its lead to 18-13 behind senior Nicole Wilson's service. The Irish made a run, but the Tigers held on for a 30-27 game victory. 
"Some of our decision mak­ing wasn't as good as it could have been, and we got our­selves in a hole," Brown said. 
In the fifth and deciding 15­point game, Notre Dame trailed 14-13 and was serv­ing, but Missouri senior Jessica VanderKooi recorded her 30th kill of the match to give the Tigers the victory. 
Notre Dame 3, Idaho 1 
The Irish won the first two games against Idaho Saturday afternoon and then recovered after blowing a lead in game three to beat the Vandals 3-1. 
The Irish took game one 30­21, jumping out to a 12-4 lead and never looking back. Junior Adriana Stasiuk tallied four kills in the game. 
The Vandals kept game two closer, trading points with Notre Dame before the Irish 


PHIL HUDELSON!fhe Observer Outside hitter Mallorie Croal, right, sets a ball for middle block­er Tara Enzweiler in a 3-2 loss to Missouri Saturday. 

finally pulled away behind three straight points from junior Danielle Herndon's service and took the game 30­25. 
Idaho recovered from an 11-6 deficit in game three, tying the game at 20 on a kill of the Shamrock Invitational for the Irish. 
Notre Dame won the first game 30-25, jumping out to a 10-3 lead before the Crusaders stormed back to within five at 21-17. The two teams went back and forth 
by sophomore Haley Larson 

"Some ofour decision
and holding off the Irish making wasn't as goodfor a 30-27 
as it could have been, 
game victory. 

Notre Dame and we got ourselves in reasserted a hole." control of the match in the 
Debbie Brown
fourth game, 

Irish coach
scoring seven straight points behind 

until Irish freshman Megan Fesl recorded two straight kills to give Notre Dame the win in game one. 
Valpo recov­ered from a three-point deficit to take the second game of the 
to the victory from there. 

Notre Dame found itself trailing 28-23 in the third game and in serious danger of falling behind 2-1, but the Irish rallied, using three straight kills from sophomore Justine Stremick and an error by the Crusaders to cut the lead to just one. Valpo junior Sara Hughes put her team back up by two, but a kill by Kaelin and another Crusader error tied the score at 29. The Irish won the next two points to finish off the game and take a 2-1. 
After surrendering the lead, the Crusaders were momen­tarily shell-shocked, falling behind 10-3 early in game four. They fought back to tie it at 14, only to watch the Irish run away again and take the game 30-22 and the match 3­1. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

Herndon's service and coast­ing to a 30-15 win. 
Notre Dame 3, Valparaiso 1 
Led by 21 kills from Kaelin, Notre Dame beat Valparaiso 3-1 Friday in the first match match, 30-27. After three straight kills by Kaelin put the Irish up 18-15, the Crusaders stormed back, tak­ing the lead 27-26 on two straight aces by sophomore Brittany Marks and cruising 

Coffee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, September 5 7:30-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students invites gay. lesbian. and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone IS welcome and confldent1al1ty 1s assured 


~·~'if~· 
FOR GAY l LESBIAI 
STUDENTS 

----------------------------------,
r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, September 4, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
HENRI ARNOLD
ALEC WHITE JUMBLE
JOCULAR 
MIKE ARGIRION 


CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 31 Mix it up 55 Wits 
Easily tamed 35 Robert Burns's 56 Biased birds "_Wild Mossy 
57 Lion botherer 7 Something 
Mountains" 58 Cinematic
brought to the 36 Terse putdown eventstable 37 Fatalistic 59 Car bars 15 Canny 

sentiment 16 Surprise with a 
40 They keep their
call DOWN
eyes on the ball 17 Manhattan 1 Computer time­
41 Gentleman's

addition savers
agreement? 18 Prone 2 Get pasted, say
46 Feeling19 Letter's need 3 "The Real47 Site of a routine 
20 Powerful arms McCoys"
landing? 

co-star of21 Department of 49 Sombreroed 1950's-60's TV Commerce div. 
cowboy 4 Coming from 22 Busy 50 Year in the heart? 

23 Fair-haired boy Justinian l's 5 Expert on bugs
reign November 1942 51 "Crouching 

24 Allied target of 
6 Component of synthetic rubber
25 Royal Air Force Tiger, Hidden station in Dragon" setting 7 Compute, so to 
Flintshire speak
52 They put on 27 Interdigitation, shows a Purse e.g. 
53 Not subject to 9 Put forth 31 Sometime siren 39 Gets new 45 Characters in 10 "Alfie" actor, 
29 Many an antique change sounder players for "Macbeth" and "Richard II"2004 32 Heap up 42 Large dragonfly 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Parent's 48 Window33 Counterblow
-:-t~-:-t~ hermano 
43 197 4 ballad treatments subtitled "Touch34 "Prometheus Unbound" -il+~r+PPI 12 Sequentially the Wind" 51 Colorado 
13 Emulate a 
feeder ballerina 44 Put in a 38 Marine 31-Down, 54 Canadian 
character 

14 Compromise hangers-on perhaps market inits. 
-:o+rillllll-::-:+.ri-:o:+:..t-=:-4 24 Home to Athens 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a···~~~~~l!UJ~··· 26 thirstyVery, very 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. frl-i+i~ 28 Like the Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
greatest show 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. on earth? 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
-:+=+-:+:*-::=-! 30 Island on which past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Homer is Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young reputedly buried solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and ma.il it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City _______ State _____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Beyonce Knowles, 24; Jason David Frank, 32; lone Skye, 34; Mike Piazza, 37 
Happy Birthday: You've been contemplating what you want to do for some time and now you have to take action. A change is in order--look to the future with optimism. If you don't take advantage, you may never forgive yourself. Your lucky numbers are 6, 9, II, 28, 35,47 
ARIES (March 2I-April19): Deal with any matters that concern your pet if you have one or your own personal health and well-being. The more changes you make to ensure a better lifestyle, the better. Consider a career change. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Plan a social event at your house or make plans to do something exciting with friends or family. Don't let things get too serious. It's time to relax and enjoy yourself. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will have a creative eye today but are likely to meet with opposition. Don't dictate what you are going to do. Plant the seed and let everyone around you think that the idea is a group effort. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your heart is in the right place, and offering a helping hand should work out in your favor. Don't expect your loved ones to be too happy about your spending time assisting someone else. A short outing will appease. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Try to incorporate something in your day that relates to work, making money and getting ahead. Someone you know outside of work will be able to shed light on how the people around you perceive you. A disciplined approach will ensure success. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A hectic pace may not be your thing, but today you will thrive on the excitement it provides. Being a little unpredictable will keep others guessing. Love may be on your mind, but don't let it consume you. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may want to take on a new project at home. The chance to do some of the work yourself will not only save you money, but it will bring you great satisfaction. Lady Luck is in your corner. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): By doing for others, you will raise your profile and ensure that nothing will stand in the way of following your dreams. Organize an event --you will win favors from people who will help you out in the future. **** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be charming and think you've won over the people you have talked to along the way. However, someone is likely to hit a sensitive subject that makes you appear unsure of yourself. The individual trying to derail you will not be who you suspect. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't stop doing what you really want to do because someone is making you feel guilty or putting too many demands on you. This can be an ideal day with fabulous results. The contacts you make by following your own path will be to your benefit. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): It may be the weekend, but if something needs to be looked after, do the groundwork so you are fully prepared to resolve these issues as soon as possible. Added responsibilities will be necessary if you want to get things done. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your interests are changing, and you will discover that the people you have been spending time with and the people you want to spend time with are very different. Don't burn bridges or give up what you have. Instead, try to give equal time to both. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are practical when it comes to your personal life. You can charm anyone into accommodating you. You are artistic, sensitive and open­minded. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com forfun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 
JJ~Wl1ffi 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
POKKA 
j
I I r 

©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
i;'~~flJ 
tMUTTUL I
IJ I 
www.jumble.com 
GOOSTE 
rJ 
1 


suggested by the above car-

Answer here: rn. "[ I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow)  
Saturday'  Jumbles:  COWER  MURKY  ECZEMA  OXYGEN  
s  Answer:  Why he enjoyed working at the mint-­ 
TO MAKE MONEY  

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

FREE COCKTAIL-S ON A FL-IGHT CAN CAUSE SOME PAS­SENGERS ~ BE--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
~ou 


l)Uf.IN{;! TI-\E 
GA. \£c..\-\. C::!AME? WE 
~so 

Roc.KtrJG 11-!E. NON­
NEW FUR.N\'IUV.,\S lN L.P..Fo~Z\ ul'ol€:. , A ~OUr-ti:>A.%0\..\T 
ON i::>OUC">W"<S, 
NE.\N CRAP E..\J E. R.\! WI-\ 'C.~ E , 
'JUP , \NE Alt..~!. ON A ROl.\.... S'TI'.P-.'"ON&J FRESH &E.t-STL!:MEN 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, September 4, 2006 
page 20 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
No. 1 Irish dominate powerhouse Santa Clara, shut out USC 
By TIM DOUGHERTY and CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writers 

After sparking a second­half firestorm in Sunday's 3­1 win over Santa Clara (3-1) at Alumni Field, Notre Dame junior striker Amanda Cinalli may have helped her team keep a more important light display -the one on top of Grace Hall. 
Both teams entered the match with a No. 1 ranking this week by different polls, but the Inn at Saint Mary's Classic offensive MVP Cinalli and her two-goal, one-assist second-half show solidified Notre Dame's claim to the top spot. 
see STORY/page 17 

Tournament has one tie, one 5-4 thriller 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 

Led by junior forward Joseph Lapira and his four goals, No. 18 Notre Dame's offense erupted in a thrilling 5-4 win in overtime against 
archrival No. 8 Indiana before a rau­cous crowd of 5,613 Sunday afternoon at B i I I Armstrong Stadium. 


It I o o ked Lapira like overtime wouldn't be needed for the Irish. who held a 4-3 advan­tage late in the game. The ref­eree, however, awarded the Hoosiers a penalty kick with only 11.7 seconds remaining when Indiana's Darren Yeagle was tripped up by Notre Dame keeper Chris Cahill. Indiana's John Michael Hayden convert­
~ 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
u.l 
'-' 

z The Belles perform well in their preseason
s 

debut at the Alumnae
= 

Exhibition Meet
c::&': 
Saturday.

D. ;:
Cl) page 16 
Clean sweep 

National champions make up an elite club 
The magical formula to a national championship is as complicated as it is p)usive. 
So much so that only six different schools have won 
the NCAA Women's College Cup in its 25­year history, as North Carolina's patent pro­tection of the secret 


blueprint Tim Dougherty has hoarded Sports Writer 
a mind-bog­gling 18 of those titles when it defeated Big East Irish rival Connecticut in the 2003 Cup championship. 
Like a handful of other pro-
see ELITE/ page 1 7 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish tie St. Louis, top Indiana in OT 
ed the spot kick to send the game to overtime. 
It was only fitting that Lapira, who had already secured a hat trick for the day, would put the finishing touch on the game. Eight min­utes into the first overtime, Lapira dribbled around a Hoosier defender and chipped the ball over Indiana goal­keeper Chris Munroe into the right corner of the net to give the Irish their second consec­utive victory over the Hoosiers. 
"We handled the second half very well, and we were a little unfortunate to give the penal­ty kick up," Notre Dame coach Bobby Clark said. "I thought we showed a lot of character to bounce back from their late goal." 
With his offensive outburst Sunday afternoon, Lapira was named the offensive MVP of the adidas/IU Credit Union Classic. His four goals were one short of the Notre Dame all-time record of five, set by Kevin Lovejoy in 1993. Lapira was also the first Irish player 
see HOOSIERS/page 16 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Penn State 34 Akron 16 
In his first regular sea­son start at quarterback for the Nittany Lions, Anthony Morelli leads PSU to a win in week 1. 
page15 NO VOLLEYBALL 

Tean1 gets 2 wins in tournan1ent 
No. 21 Notre Dame also falls twice to ranked opponents 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame coach Debbie Brown knows her young team has a lot to learn. 
That bncarne oven more apparnnt this weekend as the No. 21 Irish went 2-2 at the Shamrock Invitational Friday, Saturday and Sunday at the Joyce Center. 
"We learned so much this weekend, and it's going to make us a better team," Brown said of her squad, almost half of which is freshmen. 
Notre Dame (4-2) beat unranked opponents Valparaiso and Idaho, but was swept by No. 6 Santa Clara and lost a heart­breaking 5-game match to No. 13 Missouri. 
"It's very important to play good competition like we have this weekend," Brown said. "There's a lot 
see TOURNEY/page 18 
PGA 
Vijay Singh sets the course record at the TPC of Boston Sunday with a 
10-under  61 in the  
Deutsche  Bank  
Championship.  

page 14 


TENNIS 

Becker def. Agassi 
In Andre Agassi's last ever professional match, newcomer Benjamin Becker wins 7-5, 6-7, 6-4, 7-5. 
page 13 

MlB-Nl 
Philadel~hia 8 Atlanta 
Ryan Howard's three home runs (52) push the Phillies past the Braves Sunday. 
page 12 
MlB-Nl 
Astros 2 Mets 1 

Astros pitcher Roy Oswalt takes a perfect game to the seventh inning to help the Astros beat the Mets. 
page 12 







