-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Campus empties as·spring break ne~rs 
ND, SMC travelers cruise Students to volunteer on to sunnier destinations week away from school 
By MAUREEN MULLEN By MAUREEN MULLEN 
News Writer News Writer 
On the last day before spring While many Notre Dame students break, Notre Dame students are will be spending their spring break packing their bags, jumping in enjoying a sunny beach vacation, oth­cars, trains and planes and head­ers plan to dedicate their week to ing en masse, it seems, to warm service. weather. Students will take part in a variety 
Anthony Travel, which arranged of service projects through several spring break plans for over 500 different campus organizations. ND/SMC students, has had an espe­The Center for Social Concerns has cially busy past few weeks, said offered students the opportunity to President and CEO John Anthony. participate in the usual seminars 
The travel agency's leisure man­organized annually for the week of ager, Kayleen Carr, said cruises spring break. Twelve students will were popular among upperclass­attend the Washington Seminar which men this year. "examines ethical and public policy 
Mexico is also a common destina­issues in science and technology," a tion, and Anthony Travel helped esc press release read. students arrange to spend the The very popular CSC Appalachia 
Students board a bus Thursday as they leave for their respective spring break see BREAK/page 6 destinations a day early. see SERVICE/page 6 

Students advised to take safety precautions, protect their property while away 
Mark Kramer,' owner of in February about a program housing [as well as those that leave on lights," he said. 
By PETER NINNEMAN 

Kramer Properties, said hous­similar to a neighborhood signal the students are on Kramer said for those stu­News Writer 
es are monitored while stu­watch -which reportedly no break]." dents who have activated dents are away on break, but students attended except for "If they can blend in with their alarm systems but for­
While students anticipate not all day. representatives from the the neighborhood, that will get to turn them on over spring break, there are still "We can't watch the houses Student Senate's Committee decrease burglaries," Kramer break, the alarms will be concerns of safety and securi­24 hours a day, but we do try for Community Relations -said. turned on for them. ty looming·over their carefree to keep an eye on the houses with morning, afternoon and He said beer kegs should Brian Ferguson, an off-cam­plans. ourselves," he said. evening patrols, one house not be left out, and "outdoor pus senior, dealt with vandal 
Over winter break, several Kramer said that the best may get three to six visits in a lighting is key." ism issues when his house off-campus student houses thing students can do to help day, Sergeant Lee D. Ross of "We do all the outdoor was broken into over winter were burglarized and vandal­keep their property safe is SBPD said. lighting which we've always break. ized. Damage ranged from call the South Bend Police Kramer also emphasized done, but the students need "[This· time,] all my room­graffiti to stolen DVDs and Department (SBPD} and ask removing "tell-tale signs on to make sure they lock all mates and I are taking our PlayStation consoles, The them to watch their house. porches and lawns that indi­their doors and windows, Observer reported on Jan. 18. At an informational meeting cate that the house is student turn on their alarms and see SAFETY/page 4 

NDSP issues surveys to Zahtn 
Several residents questioned about January incident with Keenan 
By KATIE PERRY Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame Security/Police dis­tributed a written survey last month to several Zahm Hall resi­dents in order to investigate a Jan. 28 incident involving a group of the dorm's residents who threw fruit and vomited on Keenan Hall -a move that left some respondents both puzzled and angered. 
The questionnaire, an electron­ic copy of which was obtained by The Observer, asked several questions -some broad, others specific -about the incident. According to a Jan. 28 e-mail sent to the dorm by Zahm rector Father Dan Parrish, "a group of [approximately 10] Zahm men, wearing red shirts, threw fruit at Keenan Hall and vomited on and near Keenan's southern wall." 
see ZAHM/page 4 

Spellings to address ACE graduates in July 
By KELLY MEEHAN Assistant News Editor 
In its almost 13-year history, Notre Dame's Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE} has proven itself a program worthy of praise from many organiza­tions -and now it can now add the White House to this presti­gious list. 
Presidential cabinet mem­ber and Secretary of E d u c a t i 0 n Spellings Margaret Spellings has accept­ed University President Father John Jenkins' invitation to be the speaker at ACE's 11th graduation ceremony on July 15. 

Eighty-eight ACE graduates will reconvene on Notre Dame's campus for the ceremony after being apart while teaching at various schools across the nation. Commencement will conclude their participation in the two-year service program that allowed them to serve as full-time teachers in under­resourced Catholic schools throughout the southern United States. 
ACE director John Staud said he is thrilled and believes ACE is fortunate to have Spellings come to Notre Dame. 
"We had obviously wanted to try to get more national expo­sure at the highest levels to the ACE program," Staud said. "[Spellings] is someone who is responsible for all education in the country." 
Staud said although Spellings is primarily responsible for 
see ACE/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, March 10, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 



March Madness 

Madrwss: dnl'ined as tlw quality or condition ol' being insane. Seems like a pretty apt description ol' the t.hree-wnnk rollereoaster ride set to begin with next Thursday's NCAA basketball 
games. Greg Arbogast 
When else does thn entire main population either .'iports Writer call in sick or simply take two days ofT so they can plop in front of the television for :Hl hours straight'! 
When nlse eould you ever see a grown man reducnd to tears because llampton just upset Iowa State in ... anything. 
When else would you ever hear the following 1~xchangn: "Why are you so happy'!" ... "Because T.J. Sorrentine just s1~nt the Vnrmont Catamounts into tlw round ol' 32." 
In fact, last year I lwlpnd my high school soccer learn win a playoff­clinching ganw tlw sanw night. that tlw al'ornnwntionnd Vermont team defeated SyracusP. (;uess which one I was mon~ exrited about'! II' that's not madness, what is'! 
My point is basically this: Thorn's 

no hotter sporting event in America 
than Marel1 Madness. 
In a country <:hock-full of quality sporting ent1~rtainnwnt, that's a pn~tty hold statemPnl. I've !ward t.hn argunwnts for collegn football's bowl week. the NFL's playoffs and Major Leagun Baspball's World Series. 
Norw ol' these. however, combine the unpredictability. the nxeitemnnt from watching kids with no NBA futuro tako down tlw big boys (No. 14 WPlwr Stat1~ over No. 3 North Carolina, anyone'!), or the sheer joy from prndieting that 1:{over 4­sned upset that March Madnnss brings to the table. 
Put these elements together, and you have some of the most unfor­gettable moments in sporting histo­ry. 
Who doesn't remember Valparaiso's Bryce Drew being mauled by his teammates after his buzzer-beater sunk Ole Miss? Or the disbelieving look on the Kentucky players' faces after Christian Laettner broke their hearts? 
What about everybody's then­favorite Cinderella, Gonzaga, com­ing out of nowhere with consecu­tive runs to the Elite S and Sweet 16? (Don't worry-if you can't recall any of these moments, CBS will make sure they remind you about 200 times over the next three weeks). 
Combine all the virtues of March Madness with the fact that it comes immediately after the worst oh-my­God-I've-resorted-to-watching-golf­and-bowling four-wenk stretch of sports for tlw entire year, and you've got yourself a little piece of heavnn on narth. 
So after suffering through the doldrums of February, it's time for me. along with many others, to lose my head for the best three-week stretch of the year. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at 
garbogas@nd. edu 

The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The ( )bscrvcr regards itself as a professional publica­lion and strives for 1he highcs1 swndards ofjournal­ism a! all limes. We do, howt•ver, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please comau us a 1 631-454 I so we can corn~c1 our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOUR PLANS FOR SPRING BREAK? 




IN BRIEF 
Spring break begins March 11 and ends Mard1 19. 
The film "Pride and Prejudice" will be shown at 7 and 10 p.m. today in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Call 1-2SOO fi1r tickets. 
The eonferenee "Health Care in an Increasingly Health­Obsessed Culture" eontinues today and Saturday from S 
a.m. to 9 p.m. in McKenna IIall. 
Dr. Paul Mellugh of Johns llopkins University will deliver the keynote addn1ss for the conference "Health Care in an Increasingly Health-Obsessed Culture" tonight from 7:15 to 
S:15 p.m. in McKenna Hall Audiotorium. McHugh will speak on "How a Psychiatrist Approaches the Illusion of Technique in Health Care Delivery Today." 
The women's tennis team will face Western Michigan at 

3:30 p.m. today at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The film "Nashville" is show­ing Saturday at 3 p.m. in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. It is playing as part of the PAC Classic 100. Tickets are $3 for students. 

The film "Ushpizin" is show­ing Saturday at 7 and 10 p.m. in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for stu­dents. 
To submit information to be included in this section of Tlze Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

50 
40 

HIGH LOW 

Caitlin Schaefer  James Gower  AJ Radman  Tom Bodart  Amelia Kirk  Talia Bearce  
freshman off-campus  junior Keenan  senior Zahm  senior Zahm  fifth-year Fischer Grad  fifth-year Fischer Grad  
''I'm visiting my friends in Florida. "  "Going home."  "Wait out the storms in Utah.''  "Riding horses, skiing and generally  "Going to an island in Alabama. "  "Going to St. Louis to visit family."  

makin' a ruckus. " 

GEOFF MATIESON/The Observer 
A visitor pauses for reflection at the Grotto Thursday. 
OFFBEAT 
Dog survives after fall into icy channel 
GRAND HAVEN, Mich. -A dog that was pre­sumed drowned after falling into an icy river channel that feeds Lake Michigan was found alive hours later and returned to its grateful owner. 
Robert Chavez was walking two of his dogs alongside the Grand River around 10:30 a.m. Tuesday when his German shepherd fell into the channel and broke through the ice. 
The ice prevented Chavez from getting the dog out of the water, so he ran to a nearby home and called 911. When he returned to the river, he 
TODAY 
a:: 
could not find the dog. 

Officers from the Public Safety Department and the Coast Guard station searched, but they also could not find the animal. 
Around 9:45 p.m., a woman reported that she and her friends had heard a dog barking as they walked along the chan­nel's south pier. 
Cat comforts grieving orangutan at zoo 
PANAMA CITY BEACH, Fla. -Tondalayo, a 45­year-old Sumatran orang-. ulan, and T.J., a stray tabby cat, became an inseparable duo after a zoo employee introduced them late last year. 
Stephanie Willard, 
Education Director at Zoo 
World in Panama City 
Beach, said Tondalayo 
was depressed since los­
ing her mate two years 
ago. 
Her age prevented her from moving to another zoo or taking another mate. The ducks and tur­tles swimming in a moat around her island were not enough, Willard told the Panama City News Herald for Thursday's edi­tions. 
When the sweet-natured orange eat wandered into Willard's life, the solution became clear. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
LIJ 
::z: 

!;;: 
LIJ 
== 
....1 
<C 
(.) 0 

HIGH 49
..J 
LOW 45 

HIGH LOW 


63 45 

55 38 

Friday, March 1 0,' 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
'Bookstore' registration begins 
i A student goes up for a shot in last year's Bookstore Basketball Tournament. Registration for this year's tournament began this week and ends on March 19. 
By RYAN SYDLIK 
News Writer 
March Madness isn't reserved for just the NCAA tournament. 
Bookstore Basketball, the world's largest outdoor five­on-five basketball tourna­ment, is only weeks away. 
Registration began this week for the five-on-five tour­nament, which will kick-off April 4 and end with Championship Day April 30. Teams can sign-up online at http://nd.edu/-bkstr until 
11:59 p.m. on March 19. 
Senior Luke Maher, Bookstore Basketball com­missioner, said he has high hopes for the level of partici­pation. ... 
"We have ambitious goals for the tournament,'' Maher said. "We would like to see 700 teams sign up, which 
The former "Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs" is expanding and seeking new undergraduate student members, regardless of sexual orientation. The newly structured council, the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students is now accepting applications. 
Applications are available in the Office of Student Affairs (316 Main Building) or on the Core Council web site http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ Applications are due by 5:00p.m. on Tuesday, March 28, 2006, and can be submitted to the Office of Student Affairs. 
Please visit our web site for more information. 
amounts to 3,500 people." 
Maher said during the past few years between 600 and 650 teams have registered. 
He is "hoping that we can get the campus to come out in even greater force this year." 
Though the organizers of Bookstore Basketball do not discuss the monetary figures from past-tournaments or the upcoming tournament in detail, Maher said the group is "able to donate a good amount of money to the Jumpball organization." 
Jumpball is a charity that organizes free basketball camps for underprivileged Jamaican youth to provide an alternative to drugs and vio­lence in their neighborhoods. Jumpball camps are also important because they focus on teaching kids life skills such as leadership, communi­cation, teamwork and dedica­tion, Maher said. 

The Jumpball organization was started in 1995 when vol­unteers from the Notre Dame Alumni Club in Jamaica rec­ognized the need for youth development through sports within inner-city Kingston. 
Bookstore Basketball began asking its participants to give to Jumpball in 2002, but did­n't make an official donation until 2005. 
And though the tournament raises money for a good cause, it is still a time for stu­dents to enjoy sports and the spring. 
Maher said he and the rest of the Bookstore Basketball staff are very excited for the 2006 session of the tourna­ment. . "We're all ready to get into action out at the courts," he said. 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 

SMC juniors consider housing opportunities 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER 
News Writer 
Senior year is a time for many students to start prepar­
. ing for life in the real world as most begin searching for jobs and seek more independence by moving off-campus. For some seniors, however, off­campus housing is not an option, and Saint Mary's accommodates these students with unique living opportuni­ties in Opus Apartments and Annuneiata Hall. 
Apartments in Opus are lim­ited arid now that the room selection process for the resi­dence halls is beginning, sen­iors who were not selected in 
the  lottery  for  Opus  are  
assessing other options  - like  
living in Annunciata.  

Annunciata is the fourth floor of Holy Cross Hall, which is exclusively open to members of the senior class. 
The floor was established the fall semester of 1995 after Augusta Hall -a dorm that was traditionally open solely to seniors -was closed. 
"[Augusta] Hall, which is part of the convent, used to house all seniors," Michelle Russell, director of Residence Life, said. "After it closed, the College still wanted to offer seniors a unique living oppor­tunity. Therefore the fourth floor of Holy Cross was opened to just seniors and it was called Annunciata." 
The floor is named after Mother M. Annunciata McSheffery, who was the Directress of the Academy at Saint Mary's in 1872 and the Superior Generaf of the Sisters of the Holy Cross in 1892. A picture of McSheffer.y and a plaque hang on the wall of the Annunciata lounge mark the dedication of the floor on Feb. 4, 1996. 
"The purpose of having a floor like Annunciata is the same as having an apartment building just for seniors," Russell said. "You want to offer them something unique and give them the privilege of living with only members of their class. It creates a special community on the floor that I believe seniors have been very happy with." 
Many students view living in Annunciata as an opportunity to form stronger bonds with members of their class during their last year at Saint Mary's. 
"I think that if I were to live off-campus or even in Opus that I would feel too discon­nected from campus," junior Katie Osmack said. 
The unique environment Annunciata presents Saint Mary's students also offers a very different experience for the resident assistants (RAs) who serve the floor. 
"I served as RA on the sec­ond floor of Holy Cross last year and really valued the experience and knowledge gained from the position," sen­ior Shannon Culbertson said. "My section last year was mostly juniors and sopho­mores, so it is a change to have only seniors." 
"Generally, the seniors in my section need less day to day guidance, but we all rely on each other for community and sharjng experiences," she said. 
More freedom and less guid­ance is something many sen­iors look for when considering their options for housing. However, the independence of moving off-campus offers is not an option for all students. 
"I applied for Opus Hall and did not get in, which was very hard for my friend and I who had hoped to live there for some time," junior Lauren Knisley said. "Related to finances and financial aid tak­ing a significant amount of money away from my grants if I move off campus, I am con­sidering Annunciata." 
Knisley said while she enjoyed living in Holy Cross her freshman year, she is not as excited about living in the dorm as a senior, especially since many of her friends will be moving off-campus. 
"I was really looking forward to living in an off-campus like environment because it allowed me to have that sense of independence that all sen­iors need and deserve. I am ready to grow up and pay utili­ty bills, cook my own meals, and go my own way, but I sup­pose that will have to wait for another year," she said. 
While Annunciata does not offer as much freedom as some seniors would prefer, it does have other advantages, including a reputation for being a quieter environment than other residence hall floors. Many members of the senior class are required to wake up early for student teaching, nursing or other jobs, making a quieter living space more desirable. . 
"Generally, the hallway is similar to the other floors in Holy Cross. At times it is qui­eter because there are many • people living in singles who are on different schedules with student teaching, internships and field placements," Culbertson said. 
The floor's other attractions include access to a lounge fea­turing couches and a big screen television, another lounge equipped with a microwave and refrigerator and unlike the limited access granted to other Holy Cross residents, Annunciata resi­dents are able to enter the dorm through the side door 24 hours a day. 
Having a floor with only sen­iors also offers another unique social factor. 
"After all of the residents turn 21, there is the opportu­nity for section events with alcohol, monitored closely by the RAs," Culbertson said. 
While some students view living in Annunciata as a sen­ior privilege, others do not find the environment desir­able. 
"When I didn't get into Opus my friend and I went to look at Annunciata with high expecta­tions, because many of our friends had told us that it was the best place for seniors to live on campus," junior Kelly McDavitt said. "After evaluat­ing the floor we were very dis­appointed. It was dark, the rooms were smaller than we had expected, everyone had their doors closed and we did­n't see anyone in the hallway. 
"Overall we just didn't feel there were many advantages to living up there," she said. 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March I 0, 2006 
Safety 
continued from page I 
valuables and locking them up on campus and at other sites," Ferguson said. "I don't know how well the security system actually works. There was no physical evidencn of any broken windows or any­thing. It's kind of a mystery." 
On campus, Notre Dame Security Police (NI>SP) is responsible for keeping resi­dence halls safe. 
"We continue to maintain patrols of the campus and recognize that during the 
Johnson also gave advice to students wh.o were going to "typical spring break extrava­ganzas." 
"You certainly have to be mindful about what measures are appropriate for your des­tination. Some students go on service trips, but for those who go to places like Florida and Texas, don't leave any­body behind, make sure you know where your friends are, take care of each other, moni­tor your alcohol and follow the law," Johnson said. 
"Students will meet people they don't know, and they need to be careful about leav­ing their valuables out 

period of on the beach
"Students will meet 

break there if they're dis­
people they don't know. 

will bfl fHwer tracted by students on and they need to be someone. cam pus so They should
careful about leaving 

we'll be par­be careful
their valuables out on

ticularly when goi:r'J.g watchful," said the beach ifthey're to places Phil Johnson, they've never
distracted by 

assoeiate been with 
someone.

director of people NI>SP. "But we they've just also realize Phil Johnson met." that some stu­Johnson
NDSP associate 

dents will be also warned
director

staying on eampus and we encourage them and hall staff to be vigi­lant." 
Johnson also recommended that students should try not to leave valuables in their rooms over break and should lock the doors and windows before they leave. Johnson cited windows as an especial­ly big concern. 
ACE 
continued from page I 
public sehooling, she is very supportive of private and Catholic edueation. 
Spellings was born in Miehigan and moved to llouston, Texas at a young age. She graduated from the University of Houston with a bachelor's degree in political science and previously worked as then-Governor George W. Bush's senior advisor, expand­ing and implementing Bush's education policy. 
ACE faculty, teachers and graduates will be present fo"r her speech at the 2 p.m. cere­mony in the DeBartolo Center !"or the Perl"orming Arts. 
Staud said hn hopes Spnllings will not only "inspire graduates to dnvotn their energies directly 
ERASMUS BOOKS 

• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 232-8444 

students that 
t h e 
University looks at student conduct, no matter where the student is." 
"Our expectation of stu­dents to be good citizens fol­lows them wherever they go," Johnson said. 
Contact Peter Ninneman at pninnema@nd.edu 
to children," but also become increasingly familiarized with the program and give advice to ACE faculty. 
According to Staud, ACE graduation is held in July to allow the teachers to complete their classroom work and return to Notre Dame to com­memorate their two years of service work across the nation with their families. 
"This ceremony will celebrate the achievement of the 88 graduates," Staud said. "Spellings' address will better emphasize the value and importance of this profession." 
Contact Kelly Meehan at 
kmeehaO l @saintmarys.edu 
Zahnt 
continued from page I 

Most of the fruit and vomit fell 
in the vicinity of Keenan rector 
Father Mark Thesing's windows, 
he said in the email, a copy of 
which was obtained by The 
Observer. 

Parrish declined comment for this story, and NDSP associate director Phil Johnson told The Observer he would not talk about any "ongoing investigation." 
A Zahm resident-who wishes 
to remain anonymous for fear of 
repercussions related to the sur­
vey -said he received the docu­
ment "about Feb. 3." 

"I was just coming back from the gym and an NDSP detective came to my room and handed [the survey] to me," he said. "She explained that I had to answer the questions and that she was doing an investigation. That is all she would really tell me -not why or for what purpose." 
The source said he was given the survey because his name was "randomly mentioned by some­one," and knows of about six other people who were also given the survey. It was collected "about Feb. 10," he said. 
"[NDSP] wants scapegoats and they will find them," the resident said. 
The Observer obtained a copy of the eight-page survey, which had the business card for NDSP investigator Laurie L. Steffen sta­pled to its front. Steffen would not comment on the survey and referred to Johnson. 
The first page of the doeument outlined explicit instructions for respondents to follow while tak­ing the survey and asked them to "realize" a list of statements before they began answering questions. 
"Every word is important and each one might be checked later on," the survey stated. "This is not a draft and you have only one chance to .write down the answers. So, before you write we would like you to think as to how you are going to phrase your answers." 
The final item on the list of pre­liminary instructions admonished respondents against "making corrections on the questionnaire" in spaces other than those "pro­vided for that purpose." Corrections would be taken into consideration, the survey read. 
"It said, 'Would I like to change my answers?"' the Zahm resi­dent said. "That question doesn't even make sense. Why would r go about filling out the whole sur­vey and then change my answers saying that rlied?" 
The questionnaire asked resi­dents to share any knowledge they might have pertaining to the "Fruit and Vomit incident" and write in details "ideas that would account for it." 
"Tell us what happened on Jan. 28 covering from the time you woke up until the time you ended the day," the questionnaire read, leaving nearly an entire page blank for response. 
Directly addressing the issue, the survey asked if respondents knew who was involved in the incident, what the eauses were and if they had any part in the fruit and vomit found on Keenan Hall. 
The survey also asked respon­dents to "list the five most impor­tant causes that could have creat­ed this situation" and how they might go about con­ducting the would say "if it was later deter­mined that [they[ lied on the form." 
The Zahm resident who received the document main­tained he "didn't actually do any­thing to Keenan" and said NDSP blew the situation "beyond out of proportion." 
"This is college," he said. "It should be noted that no one had malicious intentions. It was a simple prank. I think that NDSP and ResLife should learn the good old saying, 'Boys will be boys."' 
In a Feb. 6 letter to the editor submitted to The Observer, Zahm Hall publicly apologized for the incident with the intent to "call attention to a group that dissents from [the Zahm] family." 
"It's time to set the record straight," said the letter signed by the "Men of Zahm Hall." 
The letter listed the positive aspects of the hall's reputation, but firmly said such things have been made obsolete m light of what 

investigation. [the dorm's]
"/ was just coming back 
"I think [the reputation has
from the gym and an
survey] was become." the right way NDSP detective came to "It doesn't [to conduct matter how
my room and handed !the 
the investiga­many aetivities
survey] to me ... /NDSPJ
tion] if they we partieipate were on a wants scapegoats and in or how well witch hunt we do in com­
they will find them. " 
looking for petitions," the specific peo­letter stated. 
Zahm resident
ple to get in "What matters 
trouble," the Zahm resi­dent said. "However, I feel like most people didn't have much information because it was like two weeks after [the incident]. Most answers were probably vague." 
The final page of the question­naire included eight questions ­some of which asked respondents to assess their own psychological states. 
"How do you feel now that you have completed this form?" the survey read. "While filling out this form what were your emo­tions? ... Were you afraid while completing this form?" 
The Zahm resident said such questions about emotional states made the investigation of the incident "seem like a murder ease." 
"To tell you the truth, it didn't change my emotions," he said. 
The survey also asked resi­dents if they thought NDSP should believe the answers pro­vided and imagine what they 
is our biggest 
eause for pride, 
our reputation, has slowly digressed into a cause for other dorms to hate us and ridicule us and for this wonderful University to look down on us and discipline us." 
Despite blaming Zahm's dam­aged image on a minority of resi­dents, the letter said a silent majority "has done little to stop" incidents like the one on Jan. 28. 
"We ... want to express our deepest apologies for our contin­ued disrespectful behavior. We're sorry for giving you all the rea­sons you need to hate Zahm," the letter said, promising to "move forward in a positive way." 
National Association for Police Organizations communications director Gene Deere said she wac;; "not aw.are" of any overseeing institutions or guidelines regard­ing such investigative surveys on college campuses. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 



ORLD & NATION 
Friday, March 10, 2006 COMP[LED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRf SERVlCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Armed man seizes student hostages 
LE MANS, France -A former teacher armed with a handgun and reportedly suf­fering from depression took up to 22 hostages Thursday, most of them students, in a high school classroom, police said. 
A school receptionist said the former teacher had promised not to harm the stu­dents. ages 16 to 18, who were held in an upper-floor study hall. 
The receptionist, Bernadette Mercier, told The Associated Press that the former teacher had been "very, very depressed" two years ago because of personal problems and now was apparently seeking work. 
Authorities gave conflicting accounts of how many hostages were taken. The local govern­ing body said 20 students and two school employees had been taken, while police in Le Mans said 18 of the hostages were students. 
Women's rights activists suppressed 
TEHHAN, Iran -Police armed with batons charged into about 200 mostly female demon­strators demanding equal rights for women in a Tehran park, beating protesters, witnesses said Thursday. 
An international rights group accused Iran of using violence to suppress peaceful protest. 
"The attack on women's rights activists high­lights the Iranian government's consistent policy of suppressing freedom of association and assembly," Human Rights Watch said in a state­ment issued by its head office in New York. 
The protest Wednesday afternoon in Daneshjoo Park was largely ignored by Thursday's media, and the two reports that did appear -one on a Web site and the other in a small-circulation paper -did not mention the police charge. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush signs renewal of Patriot Act 
WASHINGTON -After a long battle with Congress that went down to the wire, President Bush signed a renewal of the USA Patriot Act on Thursday, a day before 16 major provisions of the old law expire. 
Bush said the Patriot Act is vital to win the war on terror and protect Americans. He recalled the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and said the country is still at war. 
"We saw the terrorists' destructive vision for us when they killed nearly 3,000 men, women and children," Bush said. "In the face of this ruthless threat, our nation has made a clear choice -we will confront this mortal danger, we will stay on the offensive and we're not going to wait to be attacked again." 
Iraq must use own security forces 
WASHINGTON -Dealing with a civil war in Iraq would be the responsibility of Iraq's own security forces, at least initially, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld told Congress on Thursday. 
Testifying alongside senior military leaders and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Rumsfeld said he did not believe Iraq would descend into all-out civil war, though he acknowledged that sectarian strife had worsened. 
Gen. John Abizaid, the top U.S. commander in the Middle East, said the situation in Iraq had evolved to the point where Sunni-Shiite violence was more of a threat to U.S. success there than the insurgency 
LOCAL NEWS 
Two charged with killing· women 
MARION -Prosecutors charged two men in a grisly shooting last month that killed two women in their Westside apartment and sent their bloodied children running into the night for help. 
Hoyal Amos, 26, and Howard Harris, 22, are charged with murder in the women's deaths and l(mr counts of attempted murder in the injuries of four children, ages 2 to 10, who were in the apartment. 
Marion County Prosecutor Carl Brizzi said Wednesday that investigators found blood from one of the victims on Amos' jacket. 
Dubai company to give up stake 
Opposition in Congress causes firm to rethink quest to control U.S. ports 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Bowing to ferocious opposition in Congress, a Dubai-owned company signaled surren­der Thursday in its quest to take over operations at U.S. ports. 
"DP World will transfer fully the U.S. operations ... to a United States entity," the firm's top executive, 1-1. Edward Bilkey, said in an announcement that capped weeks of controversy. 
Relieved Republicans in Congress said the firm had pledged full divestiture, a decision that one senator said had been approved personally by the prime minister of the United Arab Emirates. 
"The devil is in the details," said Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid of Nevada, reflecting a sentiment expressed by numerous critics of the deal. 
The announcement appeared to indicate an end to a politically tinged con­troversy that brought President Bush and Republicans in Congress to the brink of an election-year veto battle on a terrorism­related issue. The White House expressed satisfac­tion with the outcome. 

"It does provide a way for­ward and resolve the mat­ter," presidential spokesman Scott McClellan said. issue go away," said Senate Committee voted 62-2 on Despite the furor, the 
"We have a strong rela­Majority Leader Bill Frist. Wednesday to block the company's U.S. operations tionship with the UAE and a The Tennessee Republican deal, and GOP congressional were never the most prized good partnership in the was one of several GOP leaders privately informed part of the global transac­global war on terrorism· and leaders to tell President the president Thursday tion. DP World valued its I think their decision reflects Bush earlier in the day that morning that the Senate rival's American operations the importance of our Congress was ready to would inevitably follow suit. at less than 10 percent of broader relationship," he ignore his veto threat and Senate Democrats clamored the nearly $7 billion total said. scuttle the deaL for a vote, increasing pres­purchase. 
A leading congressional Several Republican offi­sure on Senate Republicans But that portion of the critic of the ports deal, Rep. cials, speaking on condition to abandon the president. deal set off a political chain Peter King, applauded the of anonymity, said Frist and The firm finalized its $6.8 of events unlike any other in decision but said he and Sen. John Warner, R-Va., billion purchase Thursday Bush's five years in office. others would wait to see the chairman of the Armed of Peninsular & Oriental Republicans denounced the details. "It would have to be Services Committee, had Steam Navigation Co., the deal, saying they were wor­an American company with been privately urging the British firm that through a ried about the effects it no links to DP World, and firm to give up its plans. U.S. subsidiary runs impor­would have on efforts to that would be a tremendous After weeks of controver­tant port operations in New make ports safer from ter­victory and very gratifying," sy -and White House veto York, New Jersey, rorist threats. Democrats said the New York threats that spokesman Baltimore, New Orleans, did likewise, and capitalized Republican, chairman of the Scott McClellan renewed at Miami and Philadelphia. It on the issue as well as a House Homeland Security midmorning Thursday -also plays a lesser role in way to narrow the polling Committee. the end came unexpectedly. dockside activities at 16 gap with the GOP on issues 
"This should make the The House Appropriations other American ports. of national security. 

IRAQ 

U.S. to transfer prisoners to Iraqis 
The sprawling facility on the west­of tearing down Abu Ghraib after it
Associated Press 

ern outskirts of Baghdad will be became a symbol of the scandal. 
BAGHDAD-The U.S. military said turned over to Iraqi authorities once Widely publicized photographs of Thursday it would begin moving the prisoner transfer to Camp prisoner abuse by American military thousands of prisoners out of Abu Cropper and other U.S. military pris­guards and interrogators led to Ghraib prison to a new lockup near ons in the country is finished. The intense global criticism of the U.S. Baghdad's airport within three process will take several months, said war in Iraq and helped fuel the Sunni months and hand the notorious facili­Lt. CoL Barry Johnson, a U.S. military Arab insurgency. ty over to Iraqi authorities as soon as spokesman in Baghdad. But Abu Ghraib was kept in service possible. Abu Ghraib currently houses 4,537 after the Iraqi government objected. 
Abu Ghraib has become perhaps out of the 14,589 detainees held by Planning for the new facility at Camp the most infamous prison in the the U.S. military in the country. Iraqi Cropper began in 2004, Johnson said. world, known as the site where U.S. authorities also hold prisoners at Abu Gen. Peter Pace, chairman of the soldiers abused some Iraqi detainees Ghraib, though it is not known how Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the U.S. and, earlier, for its torture chambers many. wants to turn Abu Ghraib over to the during Saddam Hussein's rule. The U.S. government initially spoke Iraqis fast as possible. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March I 0, 2006 
three of her friends. They arranged their own break break from the break by the ferent type of spl'ing break plan to spend Saturday night plans and are using the time end," Weisbecker said of her trip. lie said ho, along with
Break 
continued from page 1 
week in Cozumel, Puerto Vallarta, Cabo San Lucas, Acapulco and Cancun. Some s t ud~~ n t s w o r ke d w i t h Anthony Travel and booked reservations at resort in the Bahamas and Jamaica, Carr said. 
llowever, he said Mexico is the most popular location, since it is usually less expen­sive than the Caribbean, and Mexican resorts and hotels often offer a variety of all­inelusive packages. 
Anthony, who has been run­ning the travel agency since 1991, said he finds the change in spring break trends over the years interesting. 

"What us1~d to be bus trips to Florida became charter flights to Cancun whieh has now become cruises, Anthony said. 
Senior Katie Hanafin made plans through Anthony Travel to go on a week-long Carnival Cruise to the Caribbean with 

Service 
continued from page l 
Seminar has attracted 150 par­ticipants who "will serve and learn at 16 sites in the Appalachian regions of Kentucky, West Virginia, Virginia, and Tennessee," aceording to the press release. 
The L'Archc Community Seminar allows students to live amongst the dis­abled for the week. The CSC's 
in Miami, Hanafin said, and to travel and visit with then leave on the ship friends. Sophomore Corey Sunday. Collins is from Vero Beach, 
Hanafin said she was told Florida, a small beach town Anthony Travel reserved a on the coast. She said she group of cabins on the ship, plans to go home for the so a large group of Notre break and bring her room-Dame students is expected to mates along. · be aboard. The ship makes "The weather at home is three stops predicted to be at Costa 7 5 or 80 M a y a , !degrees] Gra.nd ''This will be my first [a] perfect 
Cayman and spring break that I've time for people Ochos Hios. to come visit
taken with a large group 

"This will Florida," 
be my first offriends. I can't wait to Collins said. 

spring get by the pool and relax Other stu­break that dents intend to
in the sun. I might even

I've taken visit relatives with a large splurge and get a during the group of massage ... why not?" break. Junior friends," E m i I y she said. "I Weisbecker
Katie Hanafin

can't wait to will be flying get by the senior to Green pool and Valley, Ariz. to relax in the visit her sun. I might even splurge grandmother, she said. and get a massage ... why ''I've gone on more exciting not?"· spring break trips before and 
Many students, however, I usually end tip needing a 
Though the CSC provides interested students with a diverse mix of several projects to choose from, other individual students and student groups have taken the initiative to organize their own spring break service projects. 
Notre Dame College Democrats have, like Peters, coordinated a group trip to the Gulf Coast taking them to New Orleans and Baton Rouge. Their trip will join with "Opportunity Hocks 2006: 
Hebuilding the 
Gulf Coast" ­
a program for

Migrant "/needed to bring the 
college stu-

Experiences 
story ofNew Orleans to dents from

Seminar simi­larly exposes Notre Dame because it across the country to
students to the seems that we forget 
travel to the

lifestyle or 
what happened there New Orleans

migrant work­
so quickly." area and join

ers by having 
former Senator

them live and 
John Edwards

work among 
Calty Schneeman 
in helping to

migrants in 
sophomore clean up and

Florida. 
Tlw Holy Cross Mission Seminar in Coachella is a pro­gram eo-sponsored with Campus Ministry and "will explorn ministries of tho Congregation of the lloly Cross in tlw Coadwlla region of California," aceording to CSC's press n~lnase. 
The Children and Poverty Seminar will expose 13 students to the issues of youth, risk and poverty in Nnw York City, visit­ing UNICEF and otlwr agnndes, said the rnleasn. 
Nnw to tho CSC's spring break servien l1~arning agnnda is a trip nntitled "Environnwntal Justicn and Human Hights in tho Afll~rmath of Katrina." This seminar was designod by Najarian Pntnrs, a graduate stu­dent from Nnw Orleans, and is SUpported by the CSC and the Department of Afrieana Studies as Wl~ll as a donor. said Angela Miller McCraw. director of the Appalachia Seminar and educa­tional imnwrsions for the esc. 
Peters, along with nine other studnnts, will explore environ­nwntal and human rights issues promirwnt in the areas afl"eeted by llurricann Katrina. 
All CSC seminars are pro­grams not only about servien, but also about lf~arning, McCraw said. · 
"Tlwy are immersion nxperi­eru:es that n~quirn preparatory work and study and function in a way that makes the world our classroom," Md;raw said. 
rebuild in the 
aftermath of Katrina, said the ND College Democrat's press release. 
Another New Orleans trip has been organized by sophomore Caity Schneeman. Schneeman traveled to New Orleans over winter break with a group of friends and did reconstruction service work. Stirred by her experience there, she decided to return and continue to volun­teer, teaming up with Catholic Charities in the rebuilding efl'ort. This time, she's joined by an even larger group of students than before. 

Schneeman said this spring break trip has been made possi­ble by grants from the University and support from the Notre Dame alumni club of New Orleans. 
"When we left [after the win­ter break trip] I felt like I was abandoning [New Orleans]," Schneeman said. "I needed to bring the story of New Orleans to Notre Dame because it seems that we forget what happened there so quickly." 
"Now that we're returning with more volunteers than before, I do see how important it 
. was for me to tell people here about my experience in New Orleans and then bring help back." 
Contact Maureen Mullen at mmullenl@nd.edu 

relatively low-key plans. "So, eight members of the Notre I'm looking forward to the Dame Climbing Club, will rty chance to sleep and sec the to Smith Hoek, Ore. tp rock sun." climb. 
There are yet other stu­Though they welcome the dents who have made some break from elasses and rou­rather unconventional spring tine, some students will be 
break  plans.  remaining on  
Instead  of the  eampus  next  
usual  Mexico  week.  Senior  
experience, sen­ior James Fink will go on an adventure of  "''ve gone on more exciting spring break trips before and I  Luke Hoover, a manager for the women's basketball  
another type. He said he plans to go camping in the lower  usually end up need­ing a break from the break by the end."  team, will be staying on campus in order to fulfill  
Appalachians in  his  responsi­ 
Ga. with a group of friends. Fink describes  Emily Weisbecker junior  bilities to squad. ''I' II  the be  
himself  as  an  spending  my  
"avid  camper"  spring  break  
and said, "I've  like a real man  

been camping on the last four ... writing poetry and doing or five mid-semester breaks. laundry for 10 women," I've been itching to get into Hoover said. the woods since it first start­ed thawing." 
Like Fink, sophomore Kevin Contact Maureen Mullen at Faist also has plans for a dif-mmuJien 1 @nd.edu 
ECDC 2006-07 Registration 
The Early Childhood Development Center at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame (ECDC) is currently registering for the 2006 Summer program and the 2006-07 School Year. 
Registration Due Dates: 2/15/06 2006-07 Kindergarten Registration 3/1/06 2006 Summer Program 4/3/06 2006-07 School Year For more information please call ECDC-SMC: 284-4693 or ECDC-ND: 631-3344. 




. ~~ 
MEN's r~~~~ r0 MEN's 
· 
· · 
Sunday, March 11 vs. James Madison at Noon 
SC IDAY 
diiBR& 
The first 200 fans will receive aNotre Dame Lacrosse glasssponsored by 
(5£~ 



Friday, March 10, 2006 




Dow 
10,972.28 -33.46

}ones 
Up: Sai'I'Jf!: Down: Composite Volume: 1,453 165 1,769 2,110,181,890 
+43.00 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ II 0 TR (QQQQ) -0.86 -0.35 40.52 
JDS UNIPHASE CP UDSU) +1.33 +0.05 3.80 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)I +3.68 +0.16 4.51 
INTEL CP (INTC) -1.30 -0.26 19.75 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -0.16 -0.02 12.84 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.08 -0.04 47.30 13-WEEK BILL -0.22 -0.10 44.75 30-YEAR BOND -0.13 -0.06 47.17 5-YEAR NOTE 0.00 0.00 47.46 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.45 60.47 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.70 547.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.70 85.88 
Excha Rates 

YEN 118.1750 
EURO 0.8392 
POUND 0.5759 
CANADIAN$ 1.1608 
IN BRIEF 
Knight Ridder auction winds down 
NEW YORK -The auction process for Knight Ridder Inc., which winds down this week, is a moment of reckoning for the newspaper industry, a time when one of their biggest players will find out just what others are willing to pay for it. 
However, the bidding also presents a thorny dilemma for newspaper companies themselves as they prepare their final offers, which are due on Thursday, for the publisher whose 32 daily· newspapers include the Philadelphia Inquirer, the Miami Herald and the San Jose Mercury News. 
If big newspaper owners such as Gannett Co. don't step up and make what investors believe to be a strong bid, pessimists might take it as a sign of waning confidence in the future prospects of an industry that many already believe to be in decline. On the other hand, paying a rich price could also lead investors to punish the acquiring com­pany. "It's a Catch-22," says Merrill Lynch newspaper analyst Lauren Rich Fine. 
Americans not working as late in life 
WASHINGTON -Fifty years ago, nearly half of American men 65 and older were still working. Today, only about one in five remains in the work force. 
Some of the reasons, according to a gov­ernment report Thursday: the growth in pri­vate pensions, Social Security and Medicare benefits. As benefits for older Americans grew in the last half of the 20th century, fewer saw the need to work beyond 65. · 
"Not too long ago, people, particularly men, worked until they were physically unable to work," said Robert Friedland, dire.ctor of the Center on an Aging Society at Georgetown University. "Now, people have a period of time to which they are looking forward." 
Women in general are working in much larger numbers than they used to, but among those 65 and older, those staying on the job has remained steady at around 10 percent since 1950. 
The findings are part of a report thick with statistics on America's elderly, called "65+ in the United States: 2005." It was commis­sioned by the National Institute on Aging and compiled by the Census Bureau. 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Stocks surrender early gains 
Wall Street closes lower despite Japan's central bank move; unemployment fears rise 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Wall Street surrendered early gains and closed lower Thursday as a higher U.S. trade deficit and questions about the labor market squelched enthusi­asm over a policy change at the Bank of Japan. 
The market was cheered after the Japanese central bank signaled an end to its current interest rate policy, set in place five years ago to fight inflation and also lift a sagging economy. The new policy, focused less on rising prices and more on Japan's growing economic strength, encouraged U.S. investors worried about the Federal Reserve's stance on interest rates and inflation. 
"Now you have the Bank of Japan, the European Central Bank and the Federal Reserve all with the same interest rate policy, and that's very positive," said Peter Cardillo, chief strategist, and senior vice president at S.W. Bach & Co. "It's a strong indication that global central bankers will contain inflation and not necessarily choke off economic activity, which has been a big concern here." 

However, the session's AP gains slipped away by early Japanese businessmen walk by the Bank of Japan headquarters Thursday after an afternoon as investors announcement that the central bank was moving. focused on increasing unemployment claims, 17.74, or 0. 78 percent, to monthly job creation report, cents to $21.34 as The Wall which climbed above the 2,249.72. due Friday. The state of the Street Journal reported that 300,000 mark for the first In the bond market, labor market could give GM and bankrupt auto time in eight weeks, and prices moderated as the Wall Street insight into parts maker Delphi Corp. awaited the Labor yields on long-term wage inflation -a key are close to a cost-cutting Department's monthly job Treasuries began to outpace component of the Fed's labor agreement. Such an creation report, due Friday. shorter-term notes.· The interest rate policy. agreement would avoid a A new record for the yield on the 10-year "The market is preparing possible strike at Delphi nation's trade gap also Treasury note was steady at for a pretty good bounce in that could cripple GM's pro­darkened investors' mood, 4.73 percent from late employment," said Michael duction. The UAW strongly which has soured in recent Wednesday. The dollar was Strauss, chief economist for disputed the report, howev­days amid continued uncer­mixed· against other major Commonfund. "What that er. tainty over the economy and currencies, while gold means, though, is some Google Inc. said it will pay the Fed's interest rate poli­prices rose. more concern about infla­up to $90 million to settle a cy. Crude oil futures moved tion as demand increases." lawsuit that claimed the The Dow Jones industrial higher, but remain more The Fed doesn't meet company overcharged average fell 33.46, or 0.3 than $2 per barrel lower until the end of the month, advertising customers for percent, to 10,972.28. from last Friday's trading. A giving investors time to Internet sales referrals, a Broader stock indicators barrel of light crude settled worry about individual eco­"click-fraud" that involved also fell. The Standard & at $60.47, up 45 cents, on nomic reports and likely Google's ad service users Poor's 500 index lost 6.24, the New York Mercantile preventing a sharp move clicking on other compa­or 0.49 percent, to Exchange. higher in stocks until then. nies' ads simply to drive up 1,272.23, and the Nasdaq Investors were somewhat Dow industrial General their own revenues. Google composite index dropped uneasy as they awaited the Motors Corp. added 92 fell $10.88 to $343. 

-

Biotech launchs huge drug trial 
Associated Press has gambled millions of research dol­forms of the disease, so the company lars on the largest-ever Alzheimer's is targeting patients who have just 
SAN FRANCISCO -It's tragedy drug trial. It aims to win an intense, been diagnosed. Scientists are also enough that Pat Williams' mother has international race among several using the latest in brain imaging and Alzheimer's disease. But 'Williams is biotech companies to find the first genetic technology to develop tests to also terrified because her chances of effective treatment to at least slow the find people like Williams who have inheriting the disease are much better disease's progression in the 4.5 mil­above-average chances of coming than average. lion Americans who suffer from it. down the disease. 
So Williams eagerly enrolled her 90-Analysts predict the market for such ''I'm hoping they will have a miracle year-old mother last year in a mas­a drug could reach $4 billion annually pill so that I won't contract it," said sive, 1,600-patient, 18-month clinical by 2013 and success for Myriad would Williams, who lives in Boston. trial testing an experimental drug lift the company's fortunes consider­At least two other companies are made by the biotechnology company ably. The Salt Lake City company is hot on Myriad's tail. Myriad Genetics Inc. The drug, called now best known for drilling deep into Neurochem Inc., a Quebec company, Flurizan, slowed the mind-robbing the Mormon community's detailed has enrolled about 1,000 patients in disease in some of the 128 patients genetic history to develop a popular its late-stage human test; and Ireland­with mild Alzheimer's participating in breast cancer test. based Elan Pharmaceuticals is almost a smaller test. Myriad's Alzheimer's drug wasn't as far in development with its own 
Based on those results, the company effective for patients with moderate candidate. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Friday, March 10, 2006 
THE OBSERVER Spring break a service to the community 
1~0. Box n9. Nmrc Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 With midterms behind them and anticipation building for ice projects or helping local communities. They've poured a week filled with fun in the sun -or on the cooch at in hours of time and effort in high school and college, bal­
EDITOR IN CHIEF 

home -students are leaving in droves' for spring break. ancing a full courseload while generously giving their
Mike Gilloon 

But this year. a greater number are leaving the University time. 
MANAGING EDITOR BIJSINJ!.SS MANAGl'R 

with a different purpose in mind from the spring break The phrase "Catholic character" has been used in aca­
Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 

norm -service around the nation and the world. demic forums and campus discussions countless times this The Center for Social Concerns has led the charge. offering· semester. The University's commitment to serviee oppor­
Ass·I: MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 

students the opportunity to participate in various seminars tunities continues to be a def'ining characteristic of this
A~ST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 

around the country -including New Orleans, phrase.· As one of tlw world's leading
A~sl; MANAGING EDITOR: !leather Van Hocgarden 

still recovering from hurricane damage. The O TI Catholic universities, Notre Dame has always
os'erver 
S1•o1US EDITOR: Mike Gilloon CSC Appalachia Seminar, one of the most popu­expected its graduates to give generously of lar opportunities, has drawn 150 participants their time and resources -and continues to
ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gouumukkala this year. All of these CSC seminars are touted do so.
Editorial
SAINT MAllY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 

as programs devoted to learning as well as After a long eight weeks of school, you
Punro EDITOR: Claire Kelley 

service. Organizers even referred to their pri-can't fault students for wanting to return
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Craham Ebctsch 

mary goal to "make the world a classroom." home to family members or travel with friends. They've
ADVI'.RTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 

College is a stepping point to the real world, offering les­earned the rest. But those who have chosen to devote 
An D1;s1GN MANAGI:R: jennifer Kenning 

sons in how to live as well as how to learn. With all the what little vacation time they have in serviee to others 
C..<lNTROI.I.F.R: Jim Kirihara 

papers, tests and presentations that consume our everyday should be commended. It's a reflection of the University's WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff lives, it becomes all the more important to consider anoth­high goals for its students. By fostering a social responsi­er Notre Dame responsibility. one that falls outside the bility that tempers all the talents our students show every OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO borders of DeBartolo Hall and the Hesburgh Library -a day in the classroom, the Notre Dame community contin­
(574) 631-7471 life of service. ues to abundantly display the "Catholic charaeter" that FAX Notre Dame students are certainly no strangers to serv-we have all heard so much about.
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DesK 
('574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.cdu 
· ScENE DesK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.!@nd.cdu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Ohserver is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the 
Universiry of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrent, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe adminisrration ofeither 
instirution. The Ohser¥er reserves rhe right to refuse 
advertisements ha.'ied on content. 
The news is reported a.~ accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, A""'istanr Managing Edirors and deparrmem editors. Commenrarie.,, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not neces.•arily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free · expression ofall opinions through letter§ is encouraged. Letters to the Edicor must be signed and must indude conran informacion. 
Qtush'ons r~garriing Observ(r policies shouldbe dil't'cted to F.ditor in ChiefMike Gi//oon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Oha-rver (USPS ';IJ'J 24000) is puhllllhC'd Monday duuugh Friday ex<-ept during cum and va1.-atinn periods. A Juhicnption to The Ohsc:Mr is $100 for one aademit year:$)) ti.n one ~emester. 
The ObKrvcr U published ac: POSTMASTER O.l4 South Dining Hall Send ilddress corrections to: 
Nutrc Dame, IN 46'iS6-0779 'The Olnervcr 
l't!riodic..ll postage paid .n Nucrr Dame P.O.&rn' Jnd Jddiciunal mllihng nffke3o. 024 Sou(h Dinmg Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46156-0179 
111e Ob~crvcr is .a mem~r flf the Assod.at«<. Ptess. Allreprodu'-'til)ll rightli are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Amanda Michaels Eric Retter Peter Ninneman Ken Fowler 
Jenny Hames Tim Dougherty Viewpoint Chris Hine Joey King Scene Graphics Molly Griffin 

Alexa Antekeier 
A great day for the Irish 
Here at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame we celebrate the Irish all year long. Still, St. Patrick's Day remains one of the most anticipated holidays on the calendar for many students. Typically, St. Paddy's Day 
conjures up notions  
of shamrocks. green  
beer, corned beef and  
cabbage, bagpipes  
and a little bit of luck.  
Today, virtually every  
Ameriean city with a  
sizeable Irish popula­ 
tion is preparing for  
some sort of festivi­Molly 
ties in honor of Acker 
Ireland's patron  
saint. Typically. this  Nobody Likes a  
will include a parade,and it will likely be  Dumb Blonde  
accompanied by tra­ 

ditional music, plenty of Guinness spe­
cials at local pubs and hangovers that 
last well into St. Joseph's Day. 
While America's St. Patrick's Day tends to have more in common with a college fmitball tailgate than a.religious holiday, people in Ireland still manage to cele­brate the holiday with an eye toward its spiritual significance. Across the pond, St. Patrick's day is a national.holiday. Traditionally, it is a day for prayers, spir­itual renewal and an examination of faith. Before the first drop of Jameson's finds its way into a glass, many Irish have already begun their day with a trip to Mass. But make no mistake about it: the Irish have their fun too. 
Although we all know people who count down the days to St. Paddy's Day­on their calendars, many people proba­bly don't know why we choose to remember St. Patrick and why we cele­brate his life on March 17th. What is known about Ireland's patron saint and national apostle comes from his two major works: "Confessio," his autobiog­raphy. and "Epistola." his denunciation of the British mistreatment of the Irish. Patrick best described himself as a "most humble-minded man, pouring forth a continuous paean of thanks to his Maker 
OBSERVER POLL 
What are you doing for Spring Break? 
a. 
Skiing g. Other b.Cruise h. Beach 

c. 
Europe i. Going Home 

d. 
Las Vegas 

e. 
Service Trip 

r. 
Slaying on Campus 


'Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 307 responses. 


for having chosen him as the im;trument whereby multitudes who had worshiped idols and unclean things had become the people of God." 
Patrick was born in Scotland in 387 
A.D. and was the son of two Romans who were in eharge of colonies in Britain. At the age of 14 he was capturnd in a raid­ing party and taken to Ireland, where he was enslaved to herd and tend sheep. During his captivity, he turned to God. When Patrick was 20, he managed to escape and return to Britain. He was ordained a priest and later a bishop, and he returned to Ireland to preach the Gospel in 433 AD. He al).d his disciples preached Christianity, converted thou­sands of pagans and built churches all over the country. Kings, their families and entire kingdoms converted to Christianity upon hearing Patriek's mes­sage. 
Of course, legend has it that St. Patrick drove all of the snakes out of Ireland. Although many share this story. it is like­ly that this tale is symbolic of the fact that St. Patrick helped to bring an end to the pagan praetice of worshipping ser­pent symbols. He is also remembered for using the three-leaf clover to explain the I loly Trinity. This story happens to be true, and it marks the origins of the asso­ciation between the shamrock, himself and the Irish. 
One account of Patrick's life says that he died in Saul, Donqnpatrick, Ireland on March 17, 461 A.D. While I am not sure if the name "Downpatrick" is derived from Patrick being laid to rest in the town, his death is nevertheless the rea­son that March 17 is designated as his feast day. As patron saint of Ireland, St. Patrick has eome to be associated with all things Irish -leprechauns and their pots of gold, the color green and the bibuloqs nature of the people. When immigrants from Ireland settled around the world, they took with them their his­tory and their traditions. This is why so many cities in the United States have large celebrations to honor the Irish and St. Patrick. 
Submit aLetter 
to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com:
­
~ 
In my own home town of Chieago, the celebration spans two days. Traditionally, the city's downtown St. Patrick's Day parade falls on the Saturday before the actual holiday (for thos<~ of you visiting the Windy City this weekend, that would be tomorrow). Ilighlights of the day typi­cally include the Chicago Hiver being dyed green, a capaeity crowd at nearly every Irish pub on Division Street or in Lincoln Park and even a few Pakistani ca6 drivers who claim to have come to the United States by way of County Cork (as the old saying goes, "Everybody's Irish on St. Patrick's Day."). 
Practically speaking, Saturday's parade is merely the undercard for the main event of the St. Patrick's Day festivities: Sunday's South Side Irish Parade. While this year's parade is likely to be as much a celebration of the World Champion White Sox as it is a celebration of St. Patrick and the Irish, the festivities on the South Side bear more of a resem­blance to those in Ireland. Most mem­bers of this largely Irish Catholic commu­nity begin their day by going to Mass at one of the many local parishes. After Mass, the green beer flows like water and the bars along Western Avenue become filled with familiar faees as the sounds of songs such "Danny Boy," "South Side Irish" and "It's a Great Day for the Irish" permeate the neighbor­hood. 
Though the "luck of the Irish" was not on our side inasmuch as we can't be on campus for the big day this year, I'm sure that students will be celebrating on the beaches of Florida, on cruise ships in the Caribbean or in the comfort of their homes. No matter where you lind your­self next Friday, say an Irish blessing toast one up to Paddy. Slainte! 
Molly Acker is a senior communication studies and humanistic studies double major at Saint Mary's. She can be con­tacted at acke6758@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
. 
"Under democracy one party always devotes its chiefenergies to tr11ing to prove that the other party is unjit to rule -and both commonly succeed, and are right." 
H. L. Mencken newspaper editor 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Friday, March 10, 2006 

lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Academic freedom: problem? 
Perhaps the ongoing discussion of academic freedom and Catholic character has reached the point where we should make an ell'ort to ask, "What is really at stake in this dispute?" 
Some of us agree that the basic question is simply, "To what extent and why must (or should) recognized student organiza­tions, at Notre Dame or any Catholic university, refrain from discussions and performances of materials which question or challenge standard Catholic teaching concerning sexual moral­ity?" 
I have yet to hear a strong Catholic voice explain why, or dis­cuss whether. a Catholic university fully tolerant of student freedoms on such matters is on the slippery slope to secular­ization. Perhaps there are arguments of that kind, but no one, nPither our President, Father John Jenkins, nor the Chancellor of the University of Dayton, Father James Heft, has produced such an argument"in this discussion so far. 
Edward Manier professor Department ofPhilosophy March 9 

U-WIRE 
China's great firewall 

In recent months, American tech giants have had to grapple with their response to the economic and techno­logical boom in China. Early this year, Microsoft agreed to censor blog content on its MSN Spaces 
Staff

service. Google 
Editorial

agreed to block Web sites that the Chinese 
Stanford

government consid­ers illegal, including University 
Stanford Daily 

those of human rights groups, Tibetan inde­pendence movements and religious organizations. 
Yahoo! provided information that led to the conviction of dissident journalist Shi Tao, who is currently serving a 10­year sentence for leaking information about government propaganda to the press; due to its actions, Yahoo! is being reviewed by a human rights sub­committee of Congress. 
It's one thing to refrain from impos­ing American ideals of democracy and free speech onto the Chinese people, but H is quite another to aid the Chinese government in its attempts to clamp down on free speech. 
Yet these Internet companies argue that it's necessary to cooperate with the Chinese government in order to provide the country's people with access to more information than they've ever had before. Also, Yahoo! points out that the United States and the international community need to regulate the high­tech industry in China instead of point­ing fingers at alleged violations. 
As socially conscious students poised to enter the governmental, non-govern­mental and corporate spheres, we are faced with two questions. First, is the infringement of free speech and human rights ever justified, even with the ben­efit of Chinese people with greater access to information? Second, should companies wait for government regula­tion before doing the right thing? 
Should Yahoo! be providing the Chinese government with information regarding its dissidents, helping the Chinese to implement laws that the international community recognizes as human rights violations? Should Microsoft be shutting down its bloggers to appease the government, restricting freedom of speech? Should Google comply with the restrictive rules block­ing "illegal sites"? 
Actions like these call into question our legitimacy as a nation. Just how • committed is America to freedom of speech and information? Is it justified to consider such censorship to be a short-term sacrifice on the path to a more democratic China? 
To the outraged, disappointed or per­turbed American consumer, there is a more personal betrayal: Google has made its reputation as a magnanimous and socially-conscious corporation. It has made its millions by appealing to the social consciousness of its clients with its motto "Don't be evil." To these consumers, Google's compliance with the Chinese government's undemocrat­ic regulations amounts to a serious breach of confidence. This betrayal strikes especially close to home not only because Stanford is a socially-con­scious campus, but also because a sig­nificant number of Stanford graduates go on to work at Google righ~ here in the Bay Area. 
The crisis of high-tech censorship in China was inevitable with the growth of the Internet and the opening of the communist country's borders to inter­national capitalism. The actions of Google, Yahoo! and Microsoft represent a moment of reckoning for the interna­tional community and for the United States. These actions bring up the question: Are our democratic values flexible when corporate profit is at stake? 
We believe that Yahoo!'s demand for regulation in China's high-tech industry is timely and sound. We want to see this area addressed by our elected rep­resentatives in a way that recognizes the moral dilemma therein and accords with our democratic values. Nevertheless, Google, Microsoft and Yahoo! need to make good-faith efforts to address this dilemma even without government intervention. These cum­panics must be honest with consumers. 
But above all, they should use their commercial and economic leverage to pressure China to reviewing their cur­rent practices of Internet censorship. As much as these companies want to gain access to hundreds of millions of Internet users, China needs to court these companies for the investments and technology transfer that accompa­ny them. There is room for significant leverage and a space for busine"ss to exert a social influence for good. Google, Microsoft and Yahoo! should seize this opportunity-we, the con­sumers, demand it. 
This column originally appeared in the March 9 edition of the Stanford Daily, the daily publication at Stanford University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
page 9 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Enforcing abortion ban 
Ip light of South Dakota's recent pass­ing of a law banning almost all abortions, even in cases of rape and incest, I have a question for abortion rights opponents. 
How much time should a woman who gets an abortion spend in jail? Brenton Kenkel 
South Dakota's answer is "none." Its University of law punishes only Kentucky the doctors who per­Kentucky Kernel form abortions. 
But ifall abortion really is murder-ifa days-old, uncon­scious, one-cell zygote deserves all of the legal protections that you and I have ­why are we going so light on the women? After all, someone who hires a hitman doesn't get off scot-free, so why should a woman who solicits the service of an abortion doctor? 
It's time for us to think long and hard about how to punish women who have abortions. Ifone of the left-leaning Supreme Court justices retires or dies and President George W. Bush gets another chance to make a nomination, the high court will almost certainly have a five-justice majority in favor of over­turning Roe v. Wade. 
At that point, we'll be seeing state leg­islatures passing a lot more laws like South Dakota's. Making abortion illegal means, of course, coming up with a pun­ishment for the women who get them. But many abortion-rights opponents seem not to have considered that the log­ical conclusion of "Abortion is murder" is "Imprison the women who have abor­tions." 
It was a video I saw online (available at http-J/www.atcenternetwork.com/?p=64) that got me thinking that few people truly think abortion is murder. Perhaps it's not representative, but ifit is, it casts a lot of doubt on the rhetoric of the anti­abortion movement. 
The video shows an interviewer talking to anti-abortion protesters outside an abortion clinic. l-Ie interviews about ten, all of whom say (unsurprisingly) that abortion should be illegal. The interest­ing part is when he asks what punish­ment women who get abortions should receive: Only one respondent recom­mends jail time; the rest say the women should pray, or get counseling, or (gasp!) think about what they've done. Do these protesters think people who kill post-par­tum humans ought to suffer the same horrid fate -prayer and counseling? 
Or is it that, deep down, beyond the rhetoric about murder (or genocide, as the lovely signs on our campus last semester put it), even the most strident abortion opponents -the ones who spend their days holding up pictures of dead fetuses and intimidating women outside clinics-recognize that there's a substantive difference between "murder" of a first-trimester fetus and murder of a born human? I think this is more likely the answer-and it's why anti-choice policies are ultimately unsustainable. 
Americans are generally uncomfort­able with abortion -a CBS/New York Times poll in January found 60 percent of respondents in favor of imposing stricter limits on or banning abortion. But my guess {I couldn't find any polling data on the specific topic) is that the majority of Americans are also uncom­fortable with jailing women and doctors. 
Much of the debate over abortion in recent years has obscured what the actu­al consequences would be when states pass wide-reaching abortion bans in the wake of Roe v. Wade being overturned. 
Normal women-people "we" know, not the heartless, godless sluts that women who get abortions are often por­trayed as -who find themselves with an unplanned pregnancy would end up in jail, as well as the doctors who try to help them. Figuring out who's had an abortion will also entail state bureaucrats poring through the health records of most women between the ages of 15 and 45, which I doubt would win a lot of support. (Imagine you or your future wife going through the pain of a miscarriage and then being investigated by prosecutors to make sure the pregnancy was terminat­ed by natural causes.) 
Illegalizing abortion would entail all of this and more. I understand that many people want fewer fetuses to be killed, but will they still think it's worth it once they see the costs of enforcing an abor­tion ban? 
Instead on embarking on a draconian campaign of privacy invasion and impris­onment to stop abortion, we should work on the root of the problem -unplanned pregnancies. Rather than spending their time looking up when and why women are going to the doctor, state health offi­cials could develop comprehensive sex­education programs that show students how to obtain and use contraception. Funds that would be spent prosecuting women and doctors could instead go toward making birth control available to those who cannot otherwise afford it. 
This column originally appeared in the March 9 edition ofthe Kentucky Kernel, the daily publication at the University of Kentucky. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE

page 10 Friday, March I0, 2006 
DPAC REVIEW 
Schola Musicorum presents Gregorian chant 


By MARTY SCHROEDER Scene Criric  Calvin M. Bower and Blachly, who also perfimned at the event. The Grngorian chant featured in the per­ ble performances that moved the audi­ence. With a style and rhythm that is no longer used in contemporary liturgy, the  The Hnyes Organ llall provided the pnr­f'ect space for this type of performance. The crossbeams of the ceiling and thn  
formance originates in England and was  show offered a truly unique experience.  massive organ with iL-; beautiful woodwork  
On Wndnnsday the Schola Musieorum  written in the 15th and 16th centuries. It  The talent of these men is unquestionable  made the audience memb11rs feel almost  
pn~snntnd "Abnnd-Musique," a concert of  was also the music used on  and showed as they adeptly  as if they were in a mndieval church them­ 
Gregorian chant-named after Pope (;regory the Great -from the Middle Ag1~s. The performance was held in the  tho first Sunday of Lent. This type of music is of note because it prndates the use of  With a style and rhythm that is no  moved through the pieces. At times, an individual would sing, at other intervals  selves. The smaller size of' the venue also provided an intimacy that would not have been present had the performance taken  
Heyes Organ Hall of the DeBartolo Center for the l'erlimning Arts ())PAC). Music proli~ssor Alexander Blachly, Paul Applnby, a production assistant at the  the modern harmonic sys­tem. As a result, it does not follow a metrical rhythm but instead relies on the rhythm  longer used in contemporary liturgy, the show  two and at other points, all four. The movement ·of voices in and out of the perform­ance added a complexity that  place elsewhere. The acoustics in the Organ Hall were fantastic and allowed the music to flow with a balance of power and delicate beauty.  
I>PAC, Daniel Stowe, music department profnssional spndalist and theology profes­sor Michael Driscoll were the featured per­fiwmers. They wnm also accompanied by a  of the chanted words. All the pieces featured by the Schola Musicorum were · in Latin ­as is the case with  offered a truly unique experience.  would not have been present otherwise. The section of the perform­ance featuring the students  Medieval chant isn't your typical DPAC fare, but it was on exceptional display Wednesday and captivated the audience throughout the performance. The Sehola  
group of student-; for onn of the pieens.  the  vast  majority  of  was also notable.  Most of the  Musicorum performs every fall and spring,  
The Sehola Musieorum was founded in  Gregorian chant -although  students that performed  so the next chance to catch the show will  
I<J<J3 by music dnpartment f~u:ulty for the  a small portion of the chant corpus was  were female, which added even greater  be in the fall. It is definitely not a perform­ 
purpose of studying and performing  written in Greek. This style of chant is also  depth to the four male voices that were  ance to be missed.  
Gregorian chant directly from manuscript<;  sung in unison with no instrumental  heard throughout most of the show. The  
dating from the Medieval period. The  accompaniment.  layering of the different ranges was also  Contact Marty Schoeder at  
dirnctors of the program are profnssor  The four featured singers gave incredi­ skillfully performed.  mschroel@nd.edu  

BooK REVIEW 
'Kite Runner' presents life, journey of Afghani man 
By MARTY SCHROEDER 
Seen~ Criric 
"The Kite Hunner" is a story about a man experiencing his home country of Afghanistan, inspecting his emotional journey through the lens of Afghani histo­ry. This story ehronides the story of one man and his travel through childhood and into adulthood within the unique eontnxt of Afghanistan's history. 
Written by Khaled Hosseini, "The Kite Hunner" was published in 2003. It fol­lows the life of Amir, the son of a wealthy businessman of Kabul, Afghanistan in the 1960s. Whnn the novel opens in 2001, he is living in California and receives a fate­ful 1:all from one of his latn father's frinnds concerning the child of Amir's ehildhood playmate and son of his father's servant. 
This playmate is named llassan and the nmotional journey that Amir experiences through thf~ book involves an incident of 1:rime against llassan hn witnessed in his childhood during a kite-flying tourna­mnnt. As he boards the plane traveling back to the now war-torn Afghanistan, he recounts his childhood and all that is involved therein, from his birthday par­tins to his tumultuous relationship with llassan. 
The kite-flying that gives the novel its title is a type that is practiced in Afghanistan and parts of Pakistan. It involves a "kite fighter" who uses his/her kite's string to sever the strings of other "kite fighters." 
Kite fighters accomplish their tasks by coating the string in a mixture of glass powder and glue, which allows them to cut other kite strings. But the mixture is also is very abrasive on the hands and can cause serious damage. It also involves a "kite runner" who runs to find the severed kites, which then become the trophy of the victorious kite lighter. 
This novel is not only about Amir and his emotional journey, but aL<;o traces the emotional journey of Afghanistan through the peaceful years of the 1960s, the political turmoil of the 1970s, which culminated with the Soviet invasion in 1978, and the almost complete takeover of the country by the Taliban by 1998. 
Hosseini breaks the novel up into three parts. The first involves Amir's childhood in Kabul, the second is his life after he immigrates to California with his father after violence overtakes Kabul, and the third deals with his return to the war torn Afghanistan in 2001 to redeem him­self for past sins. The sections are fairly monolithic stylistically and a better tran­sition could have been used to connect the three. However, the emotional por­trayal of Amir does a fine job connecting these episodes of the character's life. 
This emotional buildup is the novel's real strength. A few of the minor charac­ters are archetypal, such as the sadistic Assef and his gang that terrorizes Amir and Hassan in their childhood. They 


Photos courtesy bloomspury.com "The Kite Runner" relates the emotional journey of Amir through an Incident with his childhood playmate Hassan. The book was written by Khaled Hosseini, right. 
eventually make a surprising, if slightly unbelievable, return later in the book. 
However, the central characters are developed with quite an emotional com­plexity. There are sins that arc commit­ted and relationships that are destroyed, but Hosseini does not give his character's quick and easy avenues out of these emo­tional hardships. He instead moves them around each other in a dance of laughter and happiness, but also tears, pain and death. But hope is never completely lost and none of the main characters are ever completely incapable of redemption, even if they do have to face the sometimes searing fires of their past to find it. 
The climax of the book is a very moving moment but even in the end, the prob­lems are not completely solved. The char­acters do find that they are essentially good people, even if they ashamed of skeletons in their closet. This is not a groundbreaking work of literary com­plexity or structure, but it is certainly a gratifying journey through the life of Amir and his changing relationship to Afghanistan. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel @nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, March 10, 2006 
page 11 
DVD REVIEW 
'Potter' a chalice of malice 

H • E Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 
erm•.one { mma Watson), left, Ron {Rupert Grint), center, and Harry {Daniel Radcliffe) talk at Hogwarts during "Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire." 
instead of football. Fortunately for both the By TAE ANDREWS health of Quidditch players everywhere Scene Critic and Notre Dame's secondary, Zbikowski was kept away from broomsticks as a ~hild and gravitated towards the pigskin
Dust off those spellbooks and pick up 
mstead.

those wands -school is back in session. 
A_Jready the ~tar player of the Bulgarian

Returning to the llogwarts School of 
natwnal .team m the Quidditch World Cup, 

Witchcraft and Wizardry for a fourth year, 
Krum gives new meaning to the term

the DVD release of "Harry Potter and the 
"player in the major leagues" when he

Goblet of Fire" marks the latest install­
succeeds in asking Hermione out to an

ment of the boy wizard's adventures. 
inter-school dance. 

!ust as each year at Hogwarts opens 
As the fourth film in the series, the kids

With a new Defense Against the Dark Arts 
of "Goblet of Fire" are definitely starting to 

instructor, as of late the directing chore on 
grow up. In fact, Harry, Ron and Hermione 

the Harry Potter franchise has become a 
fall under a spell no amount of wand-wav­

game of musical chairs. 
ing can cure -the magic of love. After

Not to be confused with the trans­
seeing the dazzling Hermione with Krum

Atlantic explorer by the same name, direc­
at th~ dance, Ron is struck with jealousy, 

tor Chris Columbus helmed the first two 
startmg turbulent times and rocky

films in the series, "Harry Potter and the 
romance between Ron and the bookworm

Sorceror's Stone" and "Harry Potter and 
-turned-bombshell. Given that actress

the Chamber of Secrets." Columbus 
Emma Watson is only 15 years old, many

proved himself a wizard in his ability to 
of the over-18 wizards in the audience

translate the literary magic of J.K. Howling 
would do well to utter "Wingardium

to the silver screen. 
Leviosa!" and levitate their jaws off the

Di:ector Alfonso Cuar6n was brought in 
floor, or else run the risk of ending up in

to direct the third film, "Harry Potter and 
the wizard prison of Azkaban. 

the Prisoner of Azkaban," as the series 
In addition to Watson, Daniel Radcliffe

took a turn for the darker. While 
again turns in a fine performance as the

"Azkaban" met with critical and commer­
lightning-scarred Harry Potter, and Rupert 

cial success, newcomer Mike Newell was 
G:int is s~arly good as Ron. Also, Ralph

given the keys to direct "Harry Potter and 
Fiennes Is excellent as the evil Lord

the Goblet of Fire." With so much turnover 
Voldemort. Despite playing a character

at the position, each new "Harry Potter" 
who goes by the moniker He-Who-Must­

directo~ ':'as f~ced with the opportunity to 
Not-Be-Named, Fiennes deserves some

leave his mdehble mark on the series -or 
recognition for his portrayal of the Dark.

drive it into the ground. 
Lord.

Not to worry, Potter-heads -Newell 
"The Goblet of Fire" DVD is available as

doesn't drop the Quaffle here. "Harry 
a one-disc option with just the movie or as

Potter and the Goblet of Fire" sees 
a two-disc set with special features.

Hogwarts host the Tri-Wizard 
Special features include additional scenes

Tournament, a competition between 
conversations with the actors and feature~

champions from Hogwarts and the rival 
focusing on each part of the Tri-Wizard

magic schools of Beauxbatons and 
Tournament.

Durmstrang. 
Mike Newell does a good job as the film's 

After all of the students enter their 
director. While it has an episodic feel, and 

names for a chance to compete in the 
some of the transitions between scenes are

Tournament, the Goblet of Fire selects 
weak, Newell was faced with the unenvi­

three names for the Tournament ­
able task of dropping J.K. Rawlings' ?52­

Cedric Diggory, Fleur Delacoeur and 
page tome into a witch's cauldron and dis­

Viktor Krum. However, the Goblet of Fire 
tilling a film out of it.

turns out to be a chalice of malice as it 
Although "Goblet" still runs a butt­

spits out an unprecedented fourth 'name 
numbing 157 minutes, the movie doesn't

for the Tournament -Harry Potter. 
drag due to Newell's use of computer-gen­

Questions of magical foul play notwith­
erated imagery, which creates a visual

standing, Potter enters the Tri-Wizard 
experience that can only be described as

Tournament. 
spellbinding.

The competition is fierce. In the first challenge, Harry is required to steal a 
Contact Tae Andrews at

golden egg from the nest of a dragon, with 
tandrew1@nd.edu

a Hungarian Horntail 
quite literally breathing fire down his neck. Harry 
Harry Potter and

also faces stiff competition from his rival champions in the tournaments, espe­
the Goblet of Fire 

cially Viktor Krum. Described as "the best 
Warner Home Video

Seeker in the world," Krum looks and plays a lot like Irish safety Tom Zbikowski -if he had taken up Quidditch 


NOTRE DAME'S BEST... 

BY OBSERVER PHOTO STAFF 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, March I 0, 2006 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Bovv111an helps Hoyas ground late Golden Eagle threat 
Georgetown forward's free throws in final minute stave offMarquette, punch ticket to Big East Championship semifinals 
AssociatcJ Press 
NHW YOHK-/\l'tnr struggling ol'f'f•nsivl'ly for :w minutns. Brandon Bowman ramP through for c;PorgP!own in tlw Pnd. 
Bowman WPnt (>-for-(> from tlw frnn-t.hrow lirw in llw final minut.1· to hPip No. 2:{ (;l~orgl'lown hold niT Marqul'lt.P l>2-S1J on Thursday in tlw quar­tnrlinals of tlw Big l~ast tourna­nwnt. 
"I'Popln haVP a I.PIHIIHlCY to look at. points. but Brandon did all tlw things WI' nPPdPd to win," Cnorgntown roach .John Thompson Ill said. 
Bowman sron•d 12 of his 14 points in the final I 0 minutns and had snvPn rPbounds for tlw lloyas (2 I -Sl. 
Stnvn Novak hit his sixth :{­pointPr with S.l> snconds left to bring MarquPltn within 60-SIJ. But Bowman rPston•d thn thn~e­point lnad with two frne throws with S. I snronds ldt. Jerel M1:Nnal missml a :{0-footnr at tlw buzznr that would havo tied the gamn. 
"I In got a good look at thn bas­ket," Novak said. "UnfortunatPiy, it just didn't go in." 
Georgntown will face Syracuse on Friday night in the semifinals. Syracuse shocked top-ranked Conneeticut S6-S4 in overtime earlier Thursday. It will be the 12th time the schools have met in the tournament, with Gnorgetown leading 6-5. Fivn of the meetings came in champi­onship games, with Georgetown winning four. 
"It's Georgetown-Syracuse at the Garden, that says it all," Thompson said. 
Georgetown led Marquette 49­48 with 5 minutes left before using a 9-2 run to take a 58-50 advantage with 37.7 seeonds remaining. Bowman had six dur­ing that streteh. 
Marquette (20-1 0) then scored the next six points, eapped by Dominie .James' layup with 12.9 seconds left to dose to 58-56. 
"It's very hard to come back on this team," Marquette eoach Tom Crean said. 
.Janws, who was the confer­ence's frnshman of the year, was 2-of-15 from the lield. 
"Shots weren't falling. for me but I just tried to maintain my aggressiveness," James said. 
Bowman then nnded the run with two free throws with 11.5 snconds left before Novak's last :{-pointer. 
It was the second straight day 
CLASSIFIEDS 
that Bowman came up big for 
thn lloyas. lie hit the kny basket 
on a driving lnrt-handed layup in 
!hn lloya.s' (>7 -(>;{ opnning round 
win owr Notre Damn. 
Jnll" CmPn had H> points, nino 
rnbounds and live assists to lnad 
(;norgntown. Ashanli Cook addnd 
16 points. 
Novak finished with I 8 points 
and Wnslny Matthews scorml 14 
points for Marquettn, whir.h had 
a lirst-round byn. 
For tlw sneond straight ganw, 
c;1wrgntown got ofT to a slow 
start. Tho lloyas, who missed 
thnir first 12 shots on 
Wedrwsday. found tlwmselves 
down 20-9 with 9:03 loft in the 
lirst half. Cnorgetown dosed the 
half on a I :{-2 run to go into the 
brnak tiPd at 22. 
"Any win in March is good, we 
hung in tlwrn," Thompson said. 
No. 2 Villanova 87, Rutgers 55 
Tlw Villanova Wildcats sat in 
their hotel rooms and watched 
whiln top-rank.ed Connectieut's 
run in the Big East tournament 
ended with one stunning loss. 
The nation's No. 2 team was 
determined to avoid a similar 
fate, not with a top overall seed 
in the NCM tournam~mt a very 
real possibility. 
"N'ter we watched UConn lose, everyone realized that anything can happen in these tourna­ments," Allan Ray said. "And you've got to come out ready to play." 
Ray scored 19 of his 26 points in the second half as Villanova went on a decisive run and pulled away from Hutgers for an 87-55 victory Thursday night to advanee to the semifinals of the Big East tournament. 
Villanova, the Big East's regu­lar-season co-champion with No. 1 Conneetieut, trailed by one early in the second half but avoided the type of upset that eliminated the Huskies earlier in the day. Connecticut was stunned by ninth-seeded Syracuse 86-84 in overtime. 
"We all came down to eat din­ner together and I just got up in front of them and said, 'Hey, we just saw what happened,"' coach Jay Wright said. "I said, 'Everyone's been talking about a matchup with UConn, and it's not going to happen now for them. If we don't beat Hutgers, it's not going to happen (for us)."' 
Will Sheridan added 17 points and 13 rebounds for the Wildeats (25-3), who will play the winner of the late Pittsburgh-West Virginia game on Friday night. 


"We were just like, 'Man, lis­ten, the No. 1 team is out and it could easily happen to us,"' Ray said. "We don't want to be the ones going home. We worked too hard for it." 
Quiney Douby scored 31 points -24 in the first half -to lead · 10th-seeded Hutgers (18-13), which will wait for the NIT announcement to see if it plays another game under coach Gary Waters. The Scarlet Knights' coach announ(;ed Mareh 1 he would resign at the end of the season. 
"I think the phone will ring," Waters said. "I mean, they have to be pretty smart about that. They wa'nt people here at Madison Square Garden. I think these kids deserve it -they deserve a eall." 
No. 15 Pittsburgh 68, No. 19 West Virginia 57 

Freshman Sam Young, making his first start of the season, had 14 points and 11 rebounds to lead Pittsburgh to vietory over West Virginia on Thursday night in the quarterfinals of the Big 
East tournament. The sixth-seeded Panthers (23­
6) will face No. 2 Villanova (25­3), which beat Hutgers 87-5 5, in the semifinals on Friday night. The Wildcats were the only one of the top four seeds to advance to the semifmals. 
Top-ranked Connecticut lost 86-82 to ninth-seeded Syracuse in overtime and fifth-seeded Georgetown beat fourth-seeded Marquette 62-59, meaning three of the four teams that reeeived first-round byes lost in the quar­terfinals. 
Young, a 6-foot-6 forward who came in averaging 7.7 points and 
4.2 rebounds, started in place of junior forward Levon Kendall, who missed the game beeause of lower back spasms. Young fin­ished 7 -for-8 from the field and blocked two shots for the Panthers, who beat Louisville 61-56 in the opening round. 
Aaron Gray had 19 points and 15 rebounds for Pittsburgh, while Carl Krauser had 10 points, six assists and six rebounds. 
Kevin Pittsnogle had 22 points for the third-sneded Mountaineers (20-10), while Mike Gansey had 10 points despite missing the final 10 min­utes of the games bncause of an abdominal musde strain. 
West Virginia took a 31-24 halftime lead as the Panthers struggled against the Mountaineers' 1-3-1 zone. Pittsburgh did a better job of attacking the zone in the second half and Young seored on an offensive rebound to tie the game at 38 with 14:11 to play. 
That was the first of four ties the rest of the way and there were five lead changes. Pittsburgh took the lead for good at 51-49 on a drive by freshman Levance Fields, who finished with 10 points, with 6:41 to go. 
Pittsnogle, who was 5.-for-11 from 3-point range, hit a 3 with 
1:35 to go to bring West Virginia within 57-54. Krauser made two free throws with 1:21 left for a five-point lead and Patrick Beilein's 3, his only points of the game, got the Mountaineers within 59-57 with 1 :09 left. 
Pittsburgh then closed the game with a 9-0 run, the first seven points on free throws and the last two on a dunk by Gray with 8 seconds left. 

The Observer accepts classifieJs every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classilleds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaiJ. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, incluJing all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
FOUND: Bracelet between the library and Malloy Hall on Wednesday, 3/8/06. Call631-7085 to identify and claim. 
FOR SALE 
3 BDRM RANCH ON JUDAY LAKE WALK TO CAMPUS. 
329-0308 
Individuals/Clubs Sell I Love the Irish Flags Great for Dorms & ac11vit1es! 
Conlact: 808 943-8524 or www.ILove Thelrish.com 
FoR RENT 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED­
ROOM HOMES 
MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 
Area houses and apartments for rent. Log onto MichianaRentals.com. Call 574-993-RENT (7368) 
123 NO Ave. 3-bdrm.t.5 bath. Call 574-229-0149. 3,4,5.6 bedroom homes. Web site:mmmrentals.com 
Contact:Gary 574-993-2208 or grooms@ ourwebspot.net 
COLLEGE PARK CON DOMINI· UMS AVAILABLE FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED­ROOM.TWO BATHS. HURRY. 235­7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 
2-3-4 BEDROOMS. Immediate & 2006-07. Security,phone included. 
315-3215. ndstudentrentals.com 
t-7 bdrm. homes starting@ $200/student. 24-hr.maint.,free pool tables, 1st mo. free. Call 574-250-7653 or visit bluegol­drentals.com 
Just 1 block from campus! For lease, 4 brand new 3 bedroom condos ranging from $1500-$2200 per month. 574-243-4554 ext.203. No utilities included. 
HISTORIC HOME-CHAPIN PK. 2800 s/f+base,LR w/f.p. 4 bdrms, study + finished 3rd fl. Full appli­ances + WID. 3 porches. 413 W. NAVARRE/$1250+util. 574-2322167 or 574-2613184 www.xog.com/property/413WestNa varre.html 

515 St.Joe: 7 bdrm,area of student 
rentals. $1200/mo. 574-250-7653 
Two. story house completely remod­eled 2003. Ready for immediate occupancy or next school year. Off street parking includes motion sen­sor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, central station monitored security system, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student hous­ing, Laundromat next door, base­ment available for storage of bicy­cles, luggage, trunks, etc., new fur­nace and central air, new kitchen including new stove and refrigera­tor, large living room for TV or entertaining, free trash removal. Call 289-4071. 
3-6 BDRMS. $195/PERSON MO.,AVAIL.NOW,SUMMER,06/07 329-0308 
TICKETS 
REO/BLUE OYSTER CULT first 3 rows. 
O.A.R. first 3 rows & James Taylor tix. Call272-7233. 
TOP DOLLAR PAID FOR YOUR FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. PLEASE CALL277-1659. 
PERSONAL 
Dear Orpheus: I am dead and I am gone as this note will tell. Aristeus is Pluto, and I am going to hell. Love, Eurydice. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone.. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC at 631-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
The Carriage House Dining Room is now accepting reservations for our annual Gala Graduation Event with dinners served Friday. May 19; Saturday, May 20 & Sunday, May 21. 2006. Call (574)272-9220. 
Jim. May I ust say that in my plan. the "lock-box" would be used only for Social Security and Medicare. It would have two different locks. Now. one of the keys to the "lock· box" would be kept by the President; the other key would be sealed in a small. metal conta1ner and placed under the bumper of the Senate Majority Leader's car. 


OUND THE NATION 
Friday, March 10, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's wrRE SERVKES page 13 
NCAA Women's Basketball RPI Rankings 
team  record  previous  
1  North Carolina  29·1  1  
2  Tennessee  28·4  2  
3  Duke  26·3  3  
4  Connecticut  28·4  4  
5  LSU  27·3  5  
6  Oklahoma  26·4  6  
7  Ohio State  28·2  8  
8  Maryland  28·4  9  
9  Rutgers  25·4  7  
10  Baylor  22·5  11  
11  North Carolina State  19·11  •  10  
12  Arizona State  24·6  12  
13  Georgia  2l-8  16  
14  DePaul  25·6  14  
15  Western Kentucky  24·5  18  
16  Virginia Tech  20·9  13  
17  Michigan State  22·9  20  
18  Stanford  23·7  17  
19  Old Dominion  19·8  15  
20  Brigham Young  23·4  19  
21  UCLA  20·10  37  
22  Kentucky  21·8  24  
23  Purdue  24·6  29  
24  Utah  21·6  23  
25  New Mexico  21·8  28  

NCAA Men's Baseball Rankings 
team record previous 

1 Georgia Tech 13·0 2 2 Clemson 7-2 1 3 Rice 13·3 4 4 North Carolina 10·1 3 5 Tennessee 11-2 6 6 Mississippi State 6·0 8 7 Cal State Fullerton 10·6 7 8 Florida State 14-1 10 9 South Carolina 9·2 9 10 Arkansas 13·1 11 11 Oregon State 9·4 13 12 Tulane 10·4 15 13 LSU 13·2 17 14 Nebraska 8·2 23 15 Florida 9·6 5 16 Stanford 10·5 19 17 Arizona State 14·5 NR 18 Missouri 8·5 20 19 Mississippi 8·3 22 20 TexasA&M 13·2 NR 21 Texas 10·8 14 22 Long Beach State 10·7 16 23 Pepperdine 9·9 12 24 Cal Poly 12-6 NR 25 Kansas 13·4 NR 
NCAA Women's Tennis ITA Rankings 
team previous 

1 Stanford 1 2 NOTRE DAME 5 3 North Carolina 6 4 Northwestern 9 5 usc 2 6 Florida 4 7 Duke 7 8 Cal 8 9 Harvard 14 10 Texas 11 11 Baylor 16 12 Vanderbilt 15 13 Miami 10 14 Wake Forest 20 15 Georgia Tech 3 16 UCLA 12 17 Pepperdine 21 18 vcu 25 19 South Carolina 24 20 William & Mary 18 
around the dial 
PGA TOUR Honda Classic Second Round, 3 p.m., USA 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 


Associated Press# 
NEW YORK -Gerry McNamara waited one day to one-up himself .. 
The senior guard hit a 3­pointer with less than a second to play to give Syracuse a win over Cincinnati in the opening round of the Big East tour­nament. 
On Thursday, his 3 with 
5.5 seconds left in regula­tion tied the game and the ninth-seeded Orange went on to beat No. 1 Connecticut 86-84 in over­time. 
"I said yesterday's shot was the best under the cir­cumstances," an exhausted McNamara said Thursday. 

''I'd have to change that to today's. We needed it." 
The win should help the Orange (21-11) end any talk about whether they deserve an at-large bid to the NCAA tournament. 
"Obviously they're a tournament team," Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun said. "I thought they were a tournament 
· team yesterday." That was a McNamara highlight show ago. 
On Wednesday, his run­ning 3 with less than a sec­ond to play meant a 74-73 victory over Cincinnati. 
He topped that perform­anc!=J in the quarterfinals by scoring 17 points and handing out 13 assists, one 
IN BRIEF 
Northwestern's NIT hopes
diminish after loss to PSU 
INDIANAPOLIS -Penn State might have knocked Northwestern out of contention for a National Invitation Tournament bid Thursday in the first round of the Big Ten tournament. 
Penn State defeated the Wildcats 60-42 to advance to a conference quarterfinal matchup with top-seed­ed Ohio State. 
Penn State improved to 15-13 and boosted its chances of making the NIT field. Northwestern fell to 14-15 with the loss. In the past, teams were required to have a record of .500 or better to make the tournament. A recent rule change allows teams with losing records into the 40-team field, but having a winning record definite­ly helps. 
'Tm not worried about that right now," Northwestern coach Bill Carmody said. "I just wanted to play every game and play well, and see where the chips fall." 

short of the tournament record. 
"He amazes me every time I see him play. He has more guts than anybody I've ever coached," said Syracuse's Jim Boeheim, who apologized for using profanity in defending McNamara on Wednesday after local media reported the player was overrated. "As soon as he released it, there was never a doubt. There was nothing but net. 
"''d say it's one of the best wins, if not the best, Syracuse has ever had." 
The loss shouldn't affect the No. 1 seed expected to go to Connecticut (27 -3). but it ended a 10-game winning streak in the Big East quarterfinals for the Huskies, the regular-sea­son co-champions with Villanova. 
"It certainly was one of the most disappointing losses we've had in an awful long time," Calhoun said. "We came out flat as heck. Just as we thought, that shot (yesterday) car­ried their momentum right into today." 
Syracuse, the defending champions in this tourna­ment, will play No. 23 Georgetown, which beat Marquette 62-59, in Friday night's semifinals. It will be the 12th time the schools have met. in the tourna­ment with Georgetown leading 6-5. 
Colts undecided about RB 
James's future 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indianapolis will take a close look at budget figures under the NFL's new $102 million salary cap before making offers to Edgerrin James and other players who will become unrestricted free agents Saturday, team president Bill Polian said Thursday. 
James, the Colts' all-time rushing leader, linebacker David Thornton and kicker Mike Vanderjagt, the team's all-time scoring leader and are among the Colts who would become free agents at ·12:01 a.m. Saturday. 
Polian said he didn't anticipate making an offer to James or Thornton before they get the oppor­tunity· to test the market. 
The Colts could declare James a franchise player like they did last year, although that move would cost them an estimated $11 million against the cap. 
Hurricanes acquire Recchi 
from Penguins 
The Carolina Hurricanes added another important offensive piece Thursday, acquiring·veteran for­ward Mark Recchi from Pittsburgh less than an hour before the NHL's trade deadline. 
Recchi gives the NHL's top team a replacement for injured forward Erik Cole, who will miss the rest of the regular season after fracturing a vertebra in his neck less than a week ago against the Penguins. Cole already had a career-high 60 points in 60 games before the injury. 
"I didn't feel pressure t9 do it, it wasn't an absolute necessity," Carolina general manager Jim Rutherford said. "It's not like we were out looking at several players. While the loss of Erik hurt's our team, if we weren't able to get Mark Recchi, we weren't going to get anyone else." 
.page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March I 0, 2006 
---=====================================================~ 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles head south to start season 
New coach brings reason for hope to improve upon last year's record 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sporrs Wri tcr 
Afkr a tough year, the Belles just want a promising start. 
Saint Mary's begins its season this wooknnd with hopo of ris­ing toward tho top of the Miehigan Intercollegiate Athlntic Association (MIAAJ standings. Tlw Belles leave for their 1 0-gamn spring brnak trip to Ft. M1~ynrs. Fla. this week in search of improving their 7-23 ovnrall rncord from the 2005 season, which indudnd a 2-14 linish in MIM play. 
The Bdles will play 10 games in live days, including matchups against Montclair State and lloiddborg Sunday. 
First-ymir Belles coach Erin Sullivan, who playod for Saint Mary's as a student and led the tnam to its first ever MIAA Tournament Championship in 2004, said she will turn to vet­eran players like co-captains Audroy Gajor and Bridget Grall to lead tlu~ team both on and ofl' the liPid. 
"What I am looking for most from tlw juniors and seniors is tho knowlodge they possess on how to win the big game," Sullivan said. 
Gajor started all 16 confer­ence games in 2005, hitting a team best .340. and she will also have the help of Grall on the mound. The Belles will look to Grall as one of their top pitchers as she pitched a team­high 62 innings last season. 
Besides her co-captains, Sullivan has other leaders to turn to. Junior Laura lleline returns, giving the Belles' defensive depth and strength in the infield. Ileline was an all­MIAA selection last year at third base with the second highest batting average on the team (.327). Heline, Gajor, and Grall are accompanied by four other returning players who have the knowledge and experience to bring the team back to the suc­cess they experienced only two years ago in winning the confer­ence title. 
The seven returning members are joined by seven freshmen. 
Sullivan was the 2004 MIAA batting champion and Ofl'ensive Player of the Year and returns to Saint Mary's after completing one season as assistant coach at Bethel College. 
The Irish face Edgewood and Massachusetts-Boston Monday and Cazenovia and North Park Tuesday. The team takes on Defiance and Mount Ida Wednesday and Dickinson and Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Thursday. 
Contact Deirdre Kcasula at dkcasula@nd.edu 
Full team prepared to defend national title 
By JACK THORNTON Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will attempt to defend. its national title starting Thursday, March 16 at the NCAA Championship meet in Ilouston, Texas. 
The young squad received some good n1~ws this w1~ek when junior epeeist Amy Orlando and sopho­more foilist .Jakub Jedrkowiak received the two national at-large bids, giving the Irish the maxi­mum qualifying number of 12. 
But Notre Dame isn't the only s1~hool headed to Texas with a big squad. Penn State and Harvard also qualified the full 12, while St. .John's and Columbia are sending 
11. 
"The chances are we [will[ have a very tough tournament ­we have at least four or f'ive teams who contend to fight for the National Championship, for three medals," Irish eoach Janusz Bednarski said. 
Harvard presents one of the strongnst challenges as the Crimson men arn No. 4 and the No. 3 women's t1~am is anchored by 2005 fi>ilist national champion Emily Cross. 
Ohio State, who won the cham­pionship in 20!)4, qualified the 
maximum six fencers on the 
men's side, but only three for the 
women. 
"Even [Ohio State[, with nine opponents, can be very danger­ous," Bednarski said. 
Notre Dame's biggest obstacle might not be any of the national powerhouses, but inexperience. Five of the team's fencers will be lirst-timers. 
"We're a young team, very young, younger than the others, which makes us unpredictable," Bednarski said. "But last year's championship team was a bit more experienced because we had at least five more seniors, but these fencers, they will light." 
The Irish roster boasts six All­Americans, a national champion (Providenza. 2004 sabre) and three national . runners-up (Zagunis, 2005 sabre; Ghattas, sabre; Orlando, 2005 epee). Bednarski has conlidence that his upperdassmen can help carry the load. 
"Alii of the[ team has to step up ... of course our kids who are experienced -we have an Olympic Champion, we have a National Champion, we have run­ners-up, I believe they will step up to take those freshmen Lon a] ride [of'l excellence," Bednarski said. 
Notre Dame earned 10 auto­matic bids at last week's Midwest Regional in Cleveland, but Jedrkowiak and Orlando placed just oul'iide the berth cutoff, fin-

NFL 
Mara helps reach labor compromise 
Associated Press 
During a low point of the marathon NFL owners' meet­ings, the labor-deal deadlock looked so hopeless that one owner suggested they needed help from beyond. 
"We need the ghost of St. Wellington to appear with some of the forefatlu~rs," Indianapolis' Jimmy lrsay said -"St. Wellington" being the Giants'­Wellington Mara, the last remaining member of the league's founding generation, who died last"October. 
Irsay's plea was right on. 
As it turned out, Mara's son John -who has been running the New York Giants for the past few years -helped broker the settlement among the 32 con­tentious gentlemen who own NFL franchises. 
In fact, tlw key monHmt in the meeting probably came at the meeting's lunch break on Wednesday when Mara, Denver's Pat Bowlen and Carolina's Jerry Richardson were escortnd to an elevator by Milt Ahlerieh, the NFL's security chief. Ahlerich madn sure they were the only ones on the lift as they soared from the basement of the hotel to Paul Tagliabue's suite. 
About six hours later, there was a deal, avoiding thl! unknown territory of a 2007 sea­son without a salary cap and the potential for serious labor prob­lem down the line. 
By all appearances, the union won this round by getting an extra $R50 million to $900 mil­lion allocatod to players over the next six years in the li>rm of mv­enue sharing. 
FENCING 

Irish grab two more bids, send 12 to Houston 
ishing fifth and seventh, respec­tively. Both Orlando and Jedrkowiak had strong seasons and performed well at last year's NCAA meet, factors that likely helped them earn the bids. 
Filling out the roster are junior sabers Valerie Providenza, Patrick Ghattas and Matt Stearns, sophomore sabre Mariel Zagunis, junior epeeist Aaron Adjemian, sophomore foilist Melanie Bautista, freshman foilists Mark Kubik and Adrienne Nott, and freshman epeeists Karol Kostka and Madeleine Stephan. 
Heading to Houston as alter­nates are sophomore epeeist Greg Howard, junior foilist Frank Bontempo, freshman sabre Bill Thanhouser and freshman foilist Emilie Prot. 
The competition will begin Thursday with women's pool bouts and proceed through the women's finals on Friday. 
Fencers will endure a 24-person round robin of 5-touch bouts, with the top limr seeds competing in direct elimination for the top prize. The direct elimination fights will not eount toward the team score. 
The men will fence Saturday and Sunday. There will be a total of 144 fencers at the tournament. 
Contact Jack Thornton at jthornt4@nd.edu 




Friday, March I0~ 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Final lap begins Thursday 
qualified for the event. While Nixon was slightly disappointed that several other Irish swimmers failed to qualify for the meet, she said she was happy to send four team members to Athens. 
"We qualified more girls than we did last year, and that shows we're headed in the right direction," Nixon said. "At the end of every sea­son, though, you're always humbled by how difficult it is to qualify for the NCAA meet and how special it is for the kids who do qualify." 
The team has had nearly a 
events. 
Carroll is 
making her third consecutive appearance at the NCAA championships and hopes to draw from her experiences the past couple of years. 
"The last two years helped me learn about the competi­tion," she said. ''I've researched my opponents this time. I don't just go in and swim." 
Carroll's best event is clear­ly the 400 IM, as she finished in sixth place, earning her All-America honors at last year's NCAA meet. This year, she is currently No. 7 nation­ally in the event with a time of 4:14.37. 
Carroll is not the only Irish swimmer with NCAA experi­ence. Quinn is making her second consecutive appear­ance. Quinn qualified for the 100-meter breaststroke last season with the University of Minnesota. This year, along with a 100-meter champi­ons·hip appearance for the Irish, she also qualified in the 200 -in which she currently ranks No. 17 nationally with a time of 2:14.27. 
Although • this is Hutchinson's first NCAA meet, she joins elite company by becoming only the fifth fresh: man in Notre Dame women's swimming history to qualify for three NCAA events. 
One of the other four swim­mers in the select group is Carroll, who accomplished the feat in 2004. Nixon also did so as an Irish swimmer in 1998. 
"It's quite an honor for her," Nixon said. "What's so excit­ing about her is that she had some good swims at the Big East, but she's definitely capable of more." 
The final member of the team to qualify for the NCAAs was Hyer. This is Hyer's first NCAA championship, and she qualified by earning All-Big East honors in last month's meet. 
Hyer will compete in this Friday's NCAA Zone C Diving Meet in Columbus, Ohio, and she will need to finish in the top four in order to qualify for a trip to Athens later in the week. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
MARIE P. DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS PRESENTS 
POMERIUM 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR 

MASTERS OF THE RENAISSANCE OcKEGHEM: MissA L'HOMME ARME WoRKS BY JosQUIN, MoNTEVERDI, GESUALDO 
7:30P.M. TUESDAY, MARCH 21, 2006 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HAlL 
MARIE P. OF BARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 
Tickets ~18, ~15, ~10. Phone 574-631-2.800 or visit http://performingarts.nd.edu for ticket information 


TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish run into nation's fastest at NCAA finals
Three swimmers, one diver ripe for NCAA Championship meet 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
After focusing all year on qualifying and succeeding in the NCAA tournament, Notre Dame head coach Carrie Nixon said her team has only achieved the first part of its season goal and will look to achieve the second part start­ing Thursday at the NCAA Championships in Athens, Ga. 
Three Irish swimmers-
month off since it won the Big East Championship, which concluded Feb. 18. Since then, Nixon has put the ath­letes who qualified for the NCAAs on a "double-taper" training schedule. Fc:n the first two weeks after the con­ference championship meet, Nixon put the girls through rigorous training equivalent to mid-season workouts. After that point, she eased up to let the swimmers rest before the NCAAs. 
"The first two weeks are a bit of a system shock because you're all rested at that point,'' Nixon said. "But after the first two weeks, the girls · 
get to rest up 
and get ready 

By JASON GALVAN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame is looking for one last meet of strong finishes. 
The Irish will have seven ath­letes competing at the last winter track event of the year -this weekend's NCAA Championships in Fayetteville, Ark. at the University of Arkansas' Randall Tyson Track Center. 
One of Notre Dame's best chances to place on the men's side comes in the distance relay. Senior Ryan Postel, junior Thomas Chamney, junior All­American Kurt Benninger and sophomore Adam Currie will be running in the event. Benninger will also compete in the 3,000­meter run, and Thomas Chamney will be running the 800-meter dash. Sophomore John Cavanaugh will serve as an alter­nate. 
On the women's side, senior All-American distance runner Stephanie Madia will compete in the 5,000-meter run, while fresh­man Ramsey Kavan will partici­pate in the mile. 
A year ago, Madia found out only two days before the meet that she would be competing. Now, with a little more time to rest up and focus mentally, she has another opportunity to add to an already outstanding track career. 
Madia is in the competition based on the strength of her time at the Alex Wilson Invitational of 16:02.14. It was the seventh­fastest time in the nation and earned an automatic invitation to the finals. Kavan improved her time at the Alex Wilson as well by posting a time of 4:38.78 and tak­ing the 15th fastest time in the nation. 
"It's a relief to me to be able to go in and not have to prepare last minute again," Madia said. "I just think that the level of competition is so high, it's just an awesome experience to be able to compete at the biggest indoor meet of the year." 
Thomas Chamney, expected to be a stroJJg contender in the men's 800-meter dash, remem­bers his first taste of the NCAA championships well. 
"When I was a freshman, I did­n't have a clue," Chamney said. "I was on the [distance medley relay] that year, and I remember being [awed] by the size of the meet. I had never experienced anything like it, with four-to fi 
Benninger is coming off his best season, posting his second sub­four minute mile at the Notre Dame Invitational in January. He holds the fourth fastest time in the nation this year for the 3,000­meter run -his 7:52.28 at the Meyo Invitational. 
"I think we all get along really well," Benninger said. "We have a good group of guys and we're all really excited to finally run at nationals." 
Contact Jason Galvan at jgalvan@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 
Florida sun protnises Belles heated contests 
Carroll and 
Julia Quinn than we did last year, and fresh­and that shows we're 
man Claire 
headed in the right 

Hutchinson -and one 
direction. " diver sophomore 
Carrie Nixon 

Tara Hyer­
Notre Dame head -coach 

juniors Katie for the meet."
"We qualified more girls 
Leading the way for the Irish is Carroll, who will be swim­ming in the 200 IM, 400 IM, and 200 butterfly 

By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
After posting an 8-9 record · and finishing fifth at the MIAA 
tournament last year, the Belles 
hope more experience will carry 
them to the top of the league in 
2006. 
Their first test comes this 
week with seven matches over 
six days during the team's 
annual spring trip to Orlando. 
The Belles face Urainas 
Sunday at 2 p.m. to kick off 
their season and follow that 
contest with a matchup against 
Minnesota State-Mankato 8 a.m. 
Monday. 
"We're hoping to win the con­
ference this year," sophomore 
Tara O'Brien said. "I think we 
have a good shot. Everyone's 
been playing really well." 
Saint Mary's returns four of its 
top six players. The only losses 
are No. 2 singles/No. 2 doubles 
Miranda Mikulyuk and No. 6 
singles/No. 3 doubles Mary Beth 
Pavela. 
O'Brien said team practices 
have been more intense than 
last season. 
"We've done more condition­
ing this year than we have in 
past years," she said. 
The Belles ran hot and cold 
last season sustaining a four 
game losing streak in mid-sea­
son then ending the year with 
four straight wins. Saint Mary's 
beat the teams it was supposed to -sweeping every match against MIAA bottom-feeders Alma, Olivet, and Tri-State ­but was unabLe to keep pace with the conference's top squads. The Belles lost to Calvin, Hope and Kalamazoo by a combined score of 25-2. 
In 2006, Saint Mary's will feed off its returning experience. No. 1 singles/No. 1 doubles Kristen Palombo returns for her senior year after compiling a 9-8 sin­gles record last season. Palombo won the MIAA individ­ual title at No. 2 singles her freshman and sophomore years and took third in No. 1 singles last year. 
No. 3 singles/No. 2 doubles Caile Mulcahy and No. 4 sin­gles/No. 2 doubles Kelly McDavitt joins O'Brien (No. 5 singles/No. 3 doubles) in return­ing for the Belles. 
Perhaps the most important returnee for the Belles is coach Dee Stevenson. Stevenson has coached at Saint Mary's since 2001, compiling a 64-19 record, two undefeated conference schedules and the Belles' only NCAA tournament appearance in 2002. 
"He's a great coach and a great guy," O'Brien said. "He knows a lot about tennis, and he wants us to think and plan our shots rather than hitting it as hard as we can." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 10, 2006 
ND SOFTBALL 
Competition out west will be a test 
Judi Garman Classic follows two games at 
home with Cal Poly 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Notw Damn will hav1~ no rest this spring break. as tlw Irish trawl west to take on tlw high­est-ranked eompntition they will SIW all season long. Tlw action kkks oil' Sunday with a double­header against the Cal Poly Mus tangs. 
Tlw Mustangs (<J-14) thrivo on dnl'm1sive play and tlw OI:C<L<;ional long ball (H> honwrs this season). With tough losses to No. :{ UClA and Oklahoma. Cal Poly has proven it can play with the b1~st LPams in tlw country. 
"We are very similar teams at this point in tlw sea­
son," Irish eoarh "We will he facing of the gate this year, Deanna (;umpl' said. some tough getting oil' to a 13-6 "Wo both havo sonw start. Senior leadoff
competition where
good wins and some hittnr Natasha Jacob bad losses. I know il' our character will has led the way we bring our 'A' he tested." offensively, setting game we should the table with a .349 beat them." batting average. The 
Deanna Gumpf 
Gumpl' wturns to Irish pitchers will tlw team full time Irish coach havn to keep the games against No. 10 Arizona State, Florida State, and Cal State-Fullerton. The Titans, who beat the Irish 9-3 on Feb. 19. will have home lielcl advantage as the host-; of the elassie. 
"I think we are a whole dill'er­ent team now," said Kohan, who went 3-l'or-4 with a home run in the loss to Fullerton. "I think we are going to surprise them this weekend." 
The Sun Devils are the favorite in the pool, entering with a 21-1 record. The team's only loss came in extra innings against Virginia Teeh March 4. If the Irish arn to hand Arizona Stato it-; sm:ond loss Thursday, they will nned to find a way to sc:on~ more runs than must have against the Sun Devils. The stingy Sun Devil pitehing staff has allowed Jess than 1.4 runs a game this season. The Irish finish pool play with the Snminoles Friday. Florida State was quick out 
this w1wkend aft1~r giving birth to her daughter a lit­tle morn than two woeks ago. Players said the t1~am is excited to have Gumpf back on the bench and is eonfident that her pres­enee will ).,rive the team th1~ boost it needs to take on the daunting schedule. 
"I think it will make a big dil'­ferenee with Coach Gumpf here -it will rnally be able to help us out," freshman infielder Linda Kohan said. 
Arter the two games against Cal Poly, the Irish will take all the extra help they can get this week as they enter the inauf.,rural Judi Garman Classic in Fullerton, Calif. The tournament, formerly known as the Kia Kla-;sie, is con­sidnrPd to be the premier mid­season tournament for all of col­legiate sof'tball. The field of 16 teams is chock-full of talent with l 0 schools rankPd in the top 25. 
Notrn Dam!~ start-; the tourna­ment in a round robin. playing 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 20 
making ofl'ensively has not been as good as it needs to be," he said. "And we have to shoot the ball better when we get oppor­tunities.... We'wl got to be bet­tor on our end with our decision making and putting the ball in the cage." 

If the Irish are to light up the s1:ornboard Saturday. they must do so against a North Carolina defense fnaturing senior prnsea­son first-team All-America Stephen Mc:ElduiT. McEiduiT. a nominee for the Tewaaraton Trophy for the country's best lacrosse player, is tough to attack lweausp of his versatility. Corrigan said. 
"Wo've facml him evnry year of his l'arPnr," Corrigan said. "lin's an exeellent defensnman -vnry solid. I In's able to guard dill'nrnnt kinds on playors." 
As Corrigan nxpeets North 
speedy Seminoles oll' the bases for Notre Dame to be successful. 
"We will be facing some tough eompetition where our character will be tested," Gum pf said. Following the round robin games, brackets will be set for the weekend and the competition will once again toughen. Depending on how they fare in their pool, the Irish could face the No. 1 and No. 2 teams in the nation (Arizona and Texas) ­along with last year's NCAA champion Michigan. 
Gumpf said a couple of big wins during the break could help bring Notre Dame into the nation's elite afler a sluggish 7-7 start. 
"At this point in the season we hoped to have a higher winning percentage," Gumpf said. "By the end of season we should be well above .500." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Carolina to bring a sense of urgency to Saturday's game, he said the Irish need to match that same aggressive attitude. 
"We've been too willing to set­tle," he said. "If we play with a little more determination, every­thing will fall into place." 
Other than a need for intensi­ty. Corrigan's game plan and confidence is unchanged. 
"We're not going to try to rein­vent the wheel," he said. "We've been a good ofTnnsive team for a number of years. We're going to keep working hard and I think it will fall into place. We've had a go(~d hard ~eek in ,practice and we re very focused. 
Al'ter Saturday's game against the boys from Tobaceo Hoad, the Irish hit the road for their next two 1:ontests. Notre Dame trav­nls to Philadelphia to take on Villanova Tuesday and visits Louisvilln Saturday to face Bellarminn. 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Tean1 vvill fire for birdies in Texas 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 

Notre Dame travels to Bryan, Texas this weekend to compete in Texas A&M's 13th Annual "Mo" -Moria) Tournament at the Championship Tees Traditions Golf Club. 
The 54-hole event is named after former A&M golfer Monica Welsh, who died in an automo­bile acddent in the early 1990s. It will include a field of 18 teams from across the eountry, including No. 9 Arkansas and No. 2:~ Kent State. 
The Irish are coming ofT of an 11th-place finish in the Central District Classic -their first tournament of this spring ­and are hoping for a better fin­ish this weekend. 
"We didn't play as well as we expected that weekend," Irish coach Debby King said of the Feb. 19-20 tournament. "We're going up against the same class of teams in this field and we're hoping for a stronger finish." 
Despite the disappointing lin­ish in the team's first tourna­ment, King is optimistic .about this weekend because of the team's ability to practice during this week's mild weather. 
"We got out Ito the course] a couple times this week," she said. "So we're hoping we ean continue to improve our level of play." 
King said she hopes for a top­six finish in Bryan. 
This competition is crudal for Notre Dam(} beeause it pits the team against several others from the NCAA central region -teams the Irish will face in the second round of postseason play. What's more, the par-72, 6,307 -yard course is the same one that will play host to the NCM Central Hegional in May. 
During the fall, the Irish had a team scoring average of 301.5 per round. King said that her players should be aiming for that figure throughout the tour­nament. 
''I'd 'feel really good if we could stay at or undnr that mark for each round," she said. 
After the "Mo" -Moria), Notre Dame will havn only two more tournanwnts to provn itself before thn Big East Championship in Dade City, Fla. April 23-25. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

MEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Divers vie for chan1pionship bids 
By TIM KAISER Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will send two divers to this weekend's NCCA Zone-C Diving meet in Columbus, Ohio. 
Sophomore Sam Stoner and freshman Michael Bulfin will compete in two diving events each -the three-meter dive Friday and the one-meter dive Saturday. 
Competing at the meet will be every school from Zone C, which covers a large portion of the Midwest and includes most of the Big Ten schools. 
The divers must finish in the top-four in an event to qualify for the national campionship meet, the final eollegiate diving event of the season. Stoner and Bullin are hoping to seore high enough on their dives to make it into that elite group. 
Notre Dame head eoaeh Tim Welsh put the divers' goals very simply. 
"They want to place as high as they can in our zone, so that they can advance to the nation­al championships," Welsh said. "We've never sent any divers before. At least in recent memo­ry, lno Notre Dame players! have advanced." 
But regardless of how they finish in the Zone Meet, Stoner and Bulfin have won the admi­ration of thnir coaehns and teammates, Wdsh said. IIn said the imprnssion that their work ethics and perforrnane11 have made on their fellow swimmers, inducting the team's veterans, is evident every day. 
"For Sam, he was also a very good high school diver, but hn has improved quite a bit [at Notre Dame]." said senior swimmer Steve Shomberger, who eompetes in backstoke and butterfly events. 
The NCAA Championships begin Thursday in Athens. Ga. 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu 

IF NOT, CONTACT OUR > NVESTMENT AND TRUST . SERVICES DEPARTMENT 
R YOUR FREEilNVEST.;. 
ENT CONSULTATION. 

Investment Services Center locat$d at; 
0 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
111 West Edison Rood Mishawaka, IN 46545 574/254-4400 • www 
Securities ore offered through Finonciof 
work Investment Corporation, 0 reCiist€~rEN::ll broker/dealer and member of the Flnanclol Network Is .not an affiliate of Dome Federal Credit Union, 
Friday, March 10, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Friends 
continued from page 20 
He said the key to Iowa's improvement this year was to look at each game as its own entity, rather than looking at a big picture -especially when the team faces an opponent sev­eral times, like it will Notre Dame. 
"That's our goal as a program -not look too far ahead. We take it one game at a time and keep it as simple as possible," he said. "We're trying to get the pro­gram turned around. We've been down for a while." 
Southpaw Jeff Maitland will lead Iowa's pitching rotation in it<> eight games over break. The senior is 1-0 with an ERA of 4.82 in his first full season after elbow surgery in 2004. In Maitland's last appearance, he allowed only two hits in six shutout innings against Northwestern. 
"Jeff doesn't have overpower­ing stuff by any means, but he just knows how to pitch [and] work both sides of the plate," Dahm said. "He just continues to get stronger each time out. He took some time off over the sum­mer and got some arm strength back." 
Maitland will be followed by righties Austin Seard and David Conroy in the rotation. Seward is 1-1 with a 5.23 ERA, while Conroy has yet to earn a decision after starting two games but throwing only six innings with a 
4.50 ERA. 
Notre Dame cannot bank on a· ninth-inning comeback in any of its games against the Hawkeyes. Iowa closer Tim Gudex has thrown five perfect innings this year, with only four batters even putting the ball in play against him. He has struckout 10 and induced one double play. 
"Having Tim on the back side, for our ninth inning, gives our guys a lot of confidence," Dahm said." 
At the plate, center fielder 
Nathan Price will lead off for Iowa. Price is batting .308 with five RBis and three stolen bases. Utility infielder Travis Sweet bats in the No. 3 hole and has done a tremendous job scoring Price, hitting .600 with runners in scor­ing position this season. 
"A lot of kids put a lot of pres­sure on themselves when it's time to drive in runs, but he excels in that situation," Dahm said. "He's the guy that's going to be able to drive in runs." 
But before the Irish face Iowa, they must square off against No. 15 Texas A&M in their first game ofthe BECC. . 
Notre Dame looks to snap a five-game losing streak at 7 p.m. tonight against the Aggies (13-3). 
Texas A&M is coming off a 6-4 loss at home to Texas State Tuesday but took two of three games from No. 5 Florida last weekend in a series in Gainesville. 
Utility infielder Jose Salazar is Texas A&M's top hitter this year, batting .348 with an on-base per­centage of .389. Catcher Josh Stinson provides the power for the Aggies with a .452 slugging percentage and 10 RBis in 14 games played. 

Junior Austin Creps and fresh­man Kyle Thebeau lead the Aggie pitching rotation, and while neither are expected to take the mound for Texas A&M, the Irish will nonetheless have their hands full at the plate. 
Junior righty Kyle Nicholson carries a 3-0 record and 2.08 ERA into his start against Notre Dame. Nicholson has struck out 20 batters while surrendering just three walks in 21.2 innings. 
If the past five games are any indication, the Irish may have trouble getting on the board against Nicholson. Notre Dame was shut out in its last two con­tests, an 8-0 drubbing at the hands of Minnesota March 4 and a 2-0 loss to Arizona in extra innings March 5. After the loss to Arizona, Mainieri attributed some of the team's batting woes to an early-season funk typical of his Notre Dame teams. 

"We've hit the ball hard, but it's frustrating," Mainieri said. "We've had some bad breaks go against us." 
One advantage for the Irish will be the return of catcher Sean Gaston. The junior missed the team's loss to Arizona after hurt­ing his arm in the Minnesota con­test. He is expected to start for the Irish tonight. 
Notre Dame's two games against Iowa in the BECC will be at 11 a.m. Saturday and 7 p.m. Monday. The Irish meet Illinois (3-3) at 7 p.m. Sunday in their other game in the BECC. 
Notre Dame will stay in San Antonio to host the Irish Classic, with its two remaining games against Iowa (March 16 at noon and March 17 at 5:30 p.m.), and two more against Southern Illinois (11-4) on March 17 at 
1:30 p.m. and March 18 at 1:30 p.m. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
TICKETS AT LAFORTUNE 
BOX OFFICE 
CALL 631m8128 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, March 10, 2006 
Big East 
continued from page 20 
"It was a n~lief'," McGraw said. "It was an amazing run for thnrn and it's great to see, but I think it was good for the con­fnwnce that Conneetieut won." 
J\l'ter defeating South Florida 7:{-M> in the first round of the Big East tournament, McGraw was confident that the win had sealed tlwir NCM berth. 
"I think this lwinl is enough," McGraw said Saturday al'ter the gamn. "I think we've got some good wins over good teams. Wn're playing WPII right now­we've got four [wins! in a row. I think everything's positive for 
LIS." 
But as West Virginia marched through u~~ tournament. upsot­ting No. 1-seed Hutgers ­whieh was prnviously unbeaten in the conference -to get to the finals and play for the auto­matie invitation, Notre Dame had cause for concern. 
Now that the Mountaineers' threat to steal the automatic bid is over, McGraw again feels secure. 
"I feel like our resume is good -we've certainly played the tough sdwduln that !the tour­nament selection committee nwmbersl like to see," McGraw said. 
While Connecticut's victory meant rnlief for numerous Big East schools. thP win also gave the lluskies reason to be hope­ful. as they now have the possi-
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
1wery rnatd1 all season." 
Despite the dominance the Irish had against the Illini, the doubles pairing of Christian and Catrina Thompson suffered its second loss of the season against the unranked duo of Maeall Harkins and Emily Wang. 
But the team's other two dou­bles teams won their matches, and Notrn I>am1~ is now 11-for­11 in elaiming the doubles point this season. 
"Catrina and I had diflieulties communi1:ating, and the loss was more mental than any­thing," Christian Thompson said. "But we are hoping we have learned from the loss and pull out a win against !Western 
bility of b11ing a No. 1 seed in the NCM tournament. 
"It would be unusual. but it is possible that a team could be a No. 1 seed without winning their !conference) tournament or regular-season !title!," said Joni Comstock, the NCJ\J\ Division I women's basketball committee chair, in a confer­ence call Tuesday. 
J\s the decision goes to the committefl, the Irish stack up well against the other Big East bubble tnams -Louisville, Pittsburgh, Villanova, South Florida and Marquette. Though Notre Dame finished behind all of' them in the Big East regular season standings and compiled a 3-3 record against them, the team's ratings percentage index (BPI) of' 28 is fourth in the con­ference. The Irish are trailing only Connecticut, Hutgers and DePaul, and they are far ahead of St. John's and Villanova, their closest competitors at Nos. 45 and 37, respectively. 
"We've beaten some good teams," McGraw said. "I feel good about our chances." 
Now that the time to prove themselves has ended, the Irish will have to wait and see if they did enough to earn the at-large bid. 
"It's tough being on [spring) break and having to stay here and wait and see. That I think is the toughest part for the girls, not being able to go home," McGraw said. 
Ultimately, Notre Dame may not even have to prove itself better than the rest of the Big 
Michigan!." 
The Irish are the only pro­gram in the nation to post three teams ranklld in the top-50. The No. 4 pairing of Catrina and Christian Thompson has led the Irish at No. 1 for most of the season and currently stand at 8­2 this season. Following at No. 2 is the No. 39 twosome of sopho­more Brook Buck and freshman Kelcy Tefft. The last ranked t!lam for the Irish at No. 3 is the No. 46 duo of seniors Kiki Stastny and captain Lauren Connelly.. 
"We are hoping to always head into singles with the dou­bles point because it really helps out the team mentally," Nelson said. "It also causes the other teams to feel like they are at a disadvantage heading into the singles matehes." 
In their match against the Broneos, the Irish are hoping to East bubble teams, just equal to them. Because of the strength and size of the Big East, eight invitations to Big East schools may not be an unreasonable possibility. 
"I think we'll get a lot of teams in," McGraw said Sunday. 
Notes: 
+ Irish senior point guard Megan Duffy was named the 2006 recipient of the Frances Pomeroy Naismith Award Thursday. The honor is given annually to the nation's top senior who is 5-foot-8 or shorter. 
"I am thrilled and humbled to receive this prestigious award," Duffy said in a statement released by the Notre Dame athleties department Thursday. "Nothing like this is possible without a wonderful group of teammates and coaches, and I share this trophy with them ­it's truly a team effort." 
+ Irish senior forward Courtney LaVere was chosen Thursday to receive the Robin Hoberts/WBCA Broadcasting Scholarship Award. The dou­ble major in computer appli­cations and film, television and theatre interned at WNDU-TV in the summer of 2004 and will receive the $4,500 award at the WBCA !\wards Luncheon April 2. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
continue their winning streak. 
Western Michigan is led by senior Rattiya 1-liranrat, who is heading into the match after breaking a school record with her 1OOth doubles win. Hiranrat is also currently 14 wins away frof\l passing Frederika Girsang's school record for total wins at 196. 
Other Broncos who stand at 100 wins or more are seniors Malena Hemynse, Reedhina Parekh, junior Carrie Jeanmaire and sophomore Noriko Saruta. 
"They definitely have a great record and are moving up in the rankings, but we just feel like we are heading into the match with so much momentum," Christian Thompson said. "All we need to do is concentrate and play hard." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Tough tasks await Irish during break 
Reigning champion Northwestern, James Madison to face ND 
By CHRIS WILLIAMS Sports Writer 
Notre Dame is on a roll. 
With a dominating 20-4 win over Lehigh Wednesday, the No. 14 Irish take a spotless 5-0 record into a crucial matchup against No. 19 James Madison Sunday at noon at the Loftus Center. 
The game will be a matchup of two unbeaten pro-as the
grams, 
''I'm excited to play
Dukes .enter with injecting new life a 3-0 record on Northwestern into their pro­the season. because we are grams. 
Notre Dame's The Dukes have
definitely rivals. It's
victory over a returning star Lehigh was the always a challenge. player analogous 
latest in a series Our team is ready for to Foote in the 
of strong perform­form of junior
the competition. If we 
ances for the midf'ielder Kelly Irish, who contin­play our game we Berger. Berger led ue to play at a can definitely come .Jamns Madison in level far surpass­goals (41) and
away victorious."
ing the team's assists (16) last play last season, season for a total when it finished Crysti Foote of 57 points. 3-12. Irish attack After Sunday's 
"JMU will be a tough team, 
and they have good coaehing on 
the defensivn end, but I don't 
think its anything we can't han­
dle," Byers said. "lOur] reeord is 
a great accomplishment. but it is 
a lot morn important to kenp on 
winning." 
Both teams arn coming ofT dis­appointing Sf~asons, with the Irish reeling from their dreary 3-12 2005 campaign and the Dukes eoming oil' a mediocre 7­·<J mark last snason. With two acdaimed freshman dasses for Notre Dame and .IMU,. No. 1 and No. l 0 respectively according to Inside Lacrosse Magazine's recruiting rankings, the teams both feature young players 

The biggest dif­ference in the Irish this year might be the addi­tion of Jill Byers, a versatile freshman who plays both mid­field and attack, to the throat of senior attack Crysti Foote. Byers has 20 goals and 10 assists, ineluding a freshman record nine-point (five-goal, four-assist) performance against the Mountain Hawks Wednesday. Foote had seven points (three goals, four assists) Wednesday to climb to 24 goals and 14 assists on the season. 
The strong performances and jump in the polls have left the team much more confident than it was a year ago. 
matchup, the Irish 
will faee Loyola­Md. March 16 in Wellington, Fla. and Northwestern in Evanston, Ill. March 19. 
Northwestern is the defending NCAA champion and will serve as a barometer of the Irish turn­around. 
''I'm excited to play Northwestern because we are definitely rivals," Foote said. "It's always a challenge. Our team is ready for the competi­tion. If we play our game we can definitely come away victo­rious." 
Contact Chris Williams at cwilli II @nd.edu 


52885 State Road 933N South Bend, IN 46637 
Kubinski 
continued from page 20 
nwnts this year. but Kubinski said thny have a lot of room for irnprovmnent. 
"We still haven't played our!\­game yet. We'n~ the most eon­sistent tmun. but we'rn not eon­sistently at the top," he said. "If we can start playing like we know we can, wn can got in lhat top-three or four. which is whnrn we should be." 
If tlw Irish want to finish in the top throe this weekend. they will have to bmtt some of the top teams from around the eountry. 
"This is an excellent field [of teams!." Kubinski said. "You have distriet teams like Michigan State and Illinois and then a eonferenee team like Louisville-teams that are eon­sistlmtly in the Top-25." 
But Kubinski is not scared of tho competition. In fact, he's looking filfward to seeing where tho Irish stack up. 
"This tournament should give us a very good feel of where we are eomparnd to the Top-25 and also in comparison to other Big East schools," said Kubinski, whose Irish finished first in last year's Big East Championship. 
After completion of the General Jim llaekler Invitational on Monday, the Irish will get a short three-day break before the start of the Border Olympics in Laredo. While the level of competition there isn't as high as that of Hackler Invitational, Kubinski said there's one team he is very excited about facing. 
"We get to rematch Baylor, who is in the Top-1 0 and I beat us earlier this year!," Kubinski said. "We beat them in the NCAA [Hegional tournament) last year, so this will be the rub­ber match and hopefully wn come out on top." 
Kubinski said if the Irish are able to come out on top in Laredo, it will depend on their ability to sink birdie putts. 
"This is a different golf eourse [than Myrtle Beach]," he said. "There an~ going to be a lot of low scores, so if we want to win we're going to have to sink a number of birdies." 
Kubinski will change up the lineup a bit to utilize the experi­ence of some of his seniors, including Eric Deutsch. 
"He has played there a num­ber of times, so he will bring some much needed experience to our team," Kubinski said of Deutseh. 
While Kubinski is hopeful that inserting Deutsch in the lineup will give the Irish the bump they need, he is also counting on the improved play of two of his other players -senior Scott Gustafson and sophomore Mike King. 
"Seott has just had a great week of practice," Kubinski said. "You just get that feeling that he is ready to play fantastic golf. And Mike seems to be get­ting closer and closer to taking that next step to being the con­sistent golfer both he and I know he is capable of being." 
Contact Joe Quinn at jquinn6@nd.edu 


Friday, March 10, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 -. 
EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 26 Shout to a 57 Quickly 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS Di\Y: Bow Wow, 19; Emmanuel Lewis, 35; cabbie Robin Trower, 61; Mickey Gilley, 69 
Didn't 58 Checking immediately 28 "Scarface" one's territory 
Happy Birthday: This is the year for self-improvement and becoming the person go on setting you've always wanted to bc..Ciear up issues that have been hanging over your head 
59 Beat one's 

~and dragging you down. Money can be made if you are industrious. Explore your 
29 Back together gums

7 "Don't fall for options. Your numbers are 3, 10, 19, 28, 31, 43 that" 
32 Locks up so Antiphon 

ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): This is a good time to look at real estate or make 15 Title bandit 36 Comic 61 Like patent a long-term commitment to something that will help ensure a secure future. Someone in a Verdi you care about may not agree with your plans. Take the Jime to explain your motives. 
introduction? leather 

opera •• 37 Figs. in bank TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Toaay can bring a host of new opportunities if you 
16 Postseason 
records are receptive to the suggestions being made. Someone may keep a secret from you event DOWN but it will probably be because he or she wants to surprise you. An older relative 38 Teller's area may pose a problem. **** 
17 Some fertile 1 Piano trio 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Listen to what others have to say before you divulge 
regions 41 Teaser 
your own ideas. Favors will be granted if you are sincere about your needs. Steer
2 Playground 

clear of pitfalls that will slow you down. ***
42 Not in harm's retort18 Bottle label 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): You are overdue for a trip or at least incorporating 
way 

some new lifestyle change. Set your goals and you will see how quickly things 
3 Loosen 47 Best 

19 Disorderly 
develop. Emotional matters may lead you astray if you don't stay focused. *** 
type? 
4 Ruthless LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your partner's emotional message may lead to a revelation 50 "With Reagan" governor or even a change of heart. Don't hold back--let everyone in your life know how 
20 It doesn't 
writer you feel and what your intentions are. Don't let your personal life interfere with 
require a full 
5 One passing your productivity. * * * deck 51 Wall St. VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Business or personal partnerships should take top 
6 Not straight 

purchase priority today. Don't overreact to situations that arise. Ifyou meddle in other people's 
21 Yvette's years 
.affairs, it will backfire, making you look like the bad guy. ****
7 Native 22 G.P.S. device, 52 Better writing 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Begin the long hard task of getting everyone to do
Nigerians 

things your way. You have the creative edge but not everyone will share your 
at times 54 Seven of 
enthusiasm or your vision. Social activity or physical fitness programs will bring 
8 Big name in1,000,000

24 Botanical small trucks 30 Calling 35 _ Hills (edge 45 Actress you in touch with people who can help you get ahead. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): You will be on. a journey today whether you are
beards 55 Arduous of the San Chandler and 
9 Not just say 31 "Is that a physically or mentally transporting yourself from one place to another. Learn from 
Fernando Valley) others

fact?!" what you see and hear and you will have that much more to apply to the things that ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Record 39 Totals 46 Catch sight of count most in your life. ***** 32 Wolf in SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take a closer look at your financial situation. 
11 _ Friday's 

sheep's 40 Primary 48 Gild Collect or pay old debts. The stress that will be relived by taking care of such clothing, e.g. 
matters will surprise you. Don't get angry with someone for making an honest
12 Rappers' 49 Long rides?

43 Smooth, to Solti mistake. *** 
..,...::::+.C:+.:-1 sounds 

33 Something 53 Cast leader? CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can't pass up an opportunity to make a 
44 Many of the 

13 Emphatic auto-dialed? career change. Use your ingenuity and you can create the position ofyour choice. _..=+=+:-+.::+::::-~ concurrence Founding 56 Sometime PC Get ready to pitch and promote and you will get what you want. *** 34 Star treks? Fathers supporter AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Passion, romance and making a commitment are 14 Annual apparent. A chance to learn something valuable will come into play and help you 
celestial 

get ahead in the future. An honest answer will be what counts. *** For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Nothing will stop you from getting your way today. 
display 

credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Y au can make amends, convince others to join your cause and spend time improving 23 Kitchen aid Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday your appearance. Minor mishaps or accidents are apparent ifyou aren't careful.***** crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
25 Sets a setter Birthday Baby: You are secretive, opportunistic and very in tune to what everyone 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
-:-+-:+=+=+:::+::::-~ on, say 

else is doing. You are intent on following your own path and achieving success -:-+:;:;+.-;+.:::+.:;­
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 

along the way. Y au are forceful and strong-willed. 
27 Spelling and Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young others solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS 

JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 

CROISSANTWORLD 
DU'f:TO  I CANT i)E.UE.  I  kl'IO\N  ::J€N¥..\NS'  Ho?t..Fui..L'\  ANt:>  I~'€­ ''ORA<:-U:."  
'M11YTE.R MS  THE-'j  ARt.  INAU6URA\l0r-J  1'::.  11-WS  'N\\...L  ~  "Pos"TE."'S.  ARE.  
'WE. S'l<:. ...  f'uTTn>~u .SCAFFOI..t>IN0  1M?oR\ANI, 'BU"T 'SO IS 0 RADUAIION  \H£.. \..A~"T C..ONT~O\J E.RSIAL  \Z,SALL'\ -ro 6E.\  S\ A R Tlt-1!.::1 -ro 1"\E.. .  
A12.0 u Nt> 11-\'€.­ -rHIS  UPC.OMIN0  
uR/»DUAT\ON  

HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJ1lr~~ID&JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
LAGlE 
[J (] 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. ~ All Rights Reserved. 
HE: DIDN'T TAKE: SIDE:S IN THE: DE:BATE: BE:C.AUSE: 

tNEMDIP 
J I I 
HE: WAS A--­

www.jumble.com 

(Answers tomorrow) -. I Jumbles: RAVEN COVEY GULLET YEARLY
Yesterday's 
Answer: What it took to sandbag the town against the rising river -A LEVEE LEVY 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, March 1 0, 2006 
page 20 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
ND faces Carolina to kick off a series of games over next week 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
Corning oil' a disappointing 9­6 loss to No. 6 Cornell last weekend. No. 13 Notre Dame looks to rebound against No. 20 North Carolina Saturday at the Loftus Center. 
Though the game will be Notre Danw's third conseeutive against a ranked opponent, North Carolina (2-3) barely hangs onto the last spot in Inside Lacrosse's Top-20 mPdia poll. Pennsylvania knocked oil' the sliding Tar Heels 13-4 

On their Heels 
Tuesday in Chapel IIiiI, handing the Heels their third loss in a row after a 2-0 start. 
In light of Carolina's eye­opening home defeat, Irish he-ad coach Kevin Corrigan expects to face a spirited squad Saturday. 
"They are a very talented team that's ofT to a rough start to their season," Corrigan said. "We've going to get them at a tough time. We're going to get them wounded and fighting. We'm going to see the best that they have." 
The Irish hope to increase an nll'ensive output that has scored eight or fewer goals in both c:ontests this year -a number they failed to exceed just once all of last season. 
Though Corrigan acknowl­edged that stingy goaltenders 


PHIL HUDELSONfThe ObseiVer 
Irish defenseman James Severin handles the ball during Notre Dame's 8-4 loss to Penn State at Loftus Feb. 26. 
like Cornell's All-American Matt scoring output. McMonagle have given the Irish "Part of it is our decision offense a hard time, Notre Dame must demand a higher see LACROSSE/page 16 
MEN'S GOLF 

Team heads south and west for tournaments 
By JOE QUINN Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame will spend its spring break in Myrtle Beach, 
S.C. and Laredo, Texas. where the team will partake in two tournaments over the weeklong break. 
The Irish will play in the General Jim Hackler Invitational Sunday and Monday and then head west to Laredo to partici­pate in the Border Olympics March 17 and 18. 

With one tournament under its belt this spring, Irish coach Jim Kubinski feels good about his team's chances. 
''I'm expecting the guys to play very improved golf down in Myrtle Beach," Kubinski said. 'This is a good course for us ­
ND WoMEN's BASKETBALL 
Big East hopes for tourney bids 
McGraw thinks Irish will make field Gf 64 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
.Joining a conference-wide chorus, the Irish (1 H-11, H-H Big East) finally exhaled TUI~sday, comforted by the fact that No. 9 Conrwetieut-the No. 2 seed in the conference tour­nament and a lock for the NCAA Tournament -defmtted No. 12-seed Wt~st Virginia in the Big East Championship. 
Thf~ Mountairwers (15-15, 4­
12) limped into tho eonference tournarnont with an eight-game losing stroak and the bolief that they nnedod to win it all and takn the Big East's automatic bid in ordnr to make it into the lield of (14. 
"I think we lrwt~d tol win tho tournamnnl to lovnnl go to the NIT right now," Mountaineors head coach Mike Carey said 

KIRSTEN HOELMERffhe ObseiVer Irish forward Breona Gray, right, drives to the hoop during Notre Dame's 79-64 loss to Connecticut Feb. 19. 
after West Virginia upset fourth-seeded St . .John's March 5 to advance to the tournament semifinals. 
During their filur-day run, the Mountaineers had become the f'irst No. 12-seed ever to advance to the conference final, win a quarterfinal game or even make it out of the first round. 
After West Virginia's remark­able run ended, Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw echoed the sentiments of the half-dozen or so Big East bub­ble teams hoping for an at­large invitation to the Big Dance when the brackets are announced Monday af'tnrnoon. 
see BIG EAST/page 18 

it really suits our game. You have to drive well and putt well, and I think that should play in our favor." 
The Irish have fmished in the top-6 in five of their six tourna­
see KUBINSKI/page 18 
BASEBALL 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
No.2 rank puts foes on guard 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
After earning their highest national ranking in school histo­ry, the No. 2 Irish are. expecting their competitors to step it up a notch over the next few weeks to challenge the team. The tests begin today with a matchup against No. 49 Western Michigan (8-2) at the Eek Tennis Pavilion at 3:30p.m. 
·~we are now targets beeause of how high we are ranknd," junior Christian Thompson said. "So Wfl are expecting everyone lweJ go up against to be playing great tonnis." 
Last Sunday, the Irish (11-0) defoated then-No. 49 Illinois 7-0 and earned their fifth shutout of the year. With the win, Notre Uamt\ extended its home win­ning streak to 12 matches. 
"It was a solid win for us because everyone had great matches, and it was a big confi­dence builder," senior Kelly Nelson said. "We are looking to continue this level or intensity that we have been bringing to 
s~e TENNIS/page I 88 

Duel in San Antonio for Hawks and Irish 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Even though Notre Dame sunk to 2-5 after consecutive shutout losses last weekend, Iowa coach .Jack Dahm isn't too happy about faeing the Irish four times during the next eight days. 
The third-year llawkeyes head coach -and good friend of Irish head coach Paul Mainieri -said he was glad to be spending much of spring break around the Notre Dame baseball program but wished so much of that time was­n't in head-to-head competition. 
"We're going down there because of my relationship with Coach Mainieri, but neither one of us wanted to play four times," Dahm said in a telephone inter­view with The Observer Thursday. "It's ldifl1cultl when you're playing a good friend ... We'd much rather be playing other people than each other." 
Dahm said a schedule snafu caused the odd situation. Both Notre Dame and Iowa (5-1) were late entrants in this weekend's Baseball Express Collegiate Classic (BECC) in San Antonio's Wolff Stadium, which forc:nd them to squaro oil' twice in that tournament. When a team dropped out of the March 16-1 H Irish Classic -also at Wolff Stadium -Iowa and Notre Dame worn forcod ti> play each other twiee in that tournament as woll. 
The llawkeyes are ofl' to thnir best start in over a decade, as Dahm has made strides in recruiting and pitching since coming to Iowa from Creighton. 
see FRIENDS/page 17 
NDSOFTBAU
U) WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
MEN'S DIVING 

ND WOMEN'S GOLf 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
w 
James Madison at 
Zone C 

Syracuse 86 
Georgetown 62 
z Notre Dame 
Championships 
Marquette 59
The Irish begin their 

Notre Dame will tee 
Connecticut 84 
spring break schedule 

off in the annual "Mo"­
lie :3 (.) 

Gerry McNamara hit a
The No. 13 Irish take 
Notre Dame will send 

Moria! Tournament at 
Brandon Bowman's
with two games against 

3-pointer to send the
their spotless record into 
two divers to the national 
Cal Poly and then travel 
six free throws in the

the Championship Tees
c:a:: 

game to overtime and
a home matchup against 
to the west coast for the 

Traditions Golf Club in
qualifying meet in 
final minute led the

the Orange knocked off
the No. 19 Dukes Sunday. 
Columbus, Ohio. 
Judi Garman Classic. 

Bryan, Tex. 
Hoyas past the Golden 
= a.. !i c:J 

the No.1 Huskies. 
Eagles. 
page 16 

page 16 
page 13 
page 12
U) page 18 
page 18 




