----~~---~-----------------------------------------------------------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 133 WEDNESDAY, MAY 3, 2006 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Jenkins responds, leaves CLAP unsatisfied 
Members continue to fight for living wage 
By JOE PIARULLI 
News Writer 
At 10 a.m. Tuesday, approxi­mately a dozen members of the Campus Labor Action Project made their way to University President Father John Jenkins's office in the Main Building ­where several stayed until 5 
p.m. -to present petitions signed by more than 1,300 sup­porters requesting a task force be formed to evaluate the University's wage policies. 
But the group's demands for change were met by a response from Jenkins affirming Notre Dame's current practices ­noting that University adminis­trators have met with CLAP members five times already this year. 
"For the most part, these have been amicable, productive meetings," Jenkins said in the statement. 
Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves and Associate Vice President for Human Resources Robert McQuade have been "entrusted responsi­bility for this issue," Jenkins said. "I am confident of their skill, their good faith and their concern for the well being of our employees and the universi­ty as a whole." 
The response left CLAP lead 
see CLAPIpage 4 

Dean Woo dines vvith Bush, Chinese president 
By MEGHAN WONS News Writer 
Carolyn Woo, dean of Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business since 1997, dined with world leaders last Thursday at a luncheon party in the White House -hosted by President George W Bush and Mrs. Bush in honor of Chinese President Hu Jintao's first official visit to the United States. 
Woo said she was one of approximately 180 guests, and estimated that 40 of those in attendance were Asian Americans. According to the Mendoza College of Business's Web site, Dean Woo has an incredible breadth and depth of experience as a leader in the business world and has been honored by various organizations for her achieve­ments. 

But regard­less of that achievement, she was sur­prised to be included in the event,


which she Carolyn Woo attended with her husband Dave. "We did not know why we were invited, but went out of 

Dining halls consider 
Grab and Go changes 

By MEGHANWONS News Writer 
Beginning fall of 2006, Notre Dame students may have more food options to consider when making their Grab and Go selec­tions. 
According to the Notre Dame Food Services Web site, Grab and Go was designed for students who don't have time to sit down for a meal. With locations in both the basement of South Dining Hall and the north entrance lobby of North Dining Hall, Grab and Go current­ly offers a limited variety of prepackaged and portable foods such as sandwiches, veggie trays, bagels, drinks, chips, yogurt, cere­
see MEALS/page 6 

curiosity and the desire for an experience," Woo said. 
Woo has also been a member of the Committee of 100 -an organization of Chinese­American leaders devoted to enhancing relations between the United States and China and the full participation of Chinese­Americans in American life ­since 2001. 
Woo said her acquaintance and retired General John Fugh -the highest ranking Chinese­American General when he was in office -made her and her husband feel comfortable in the White House from the moment they arrived. Fugh is also the incoming chair of the Committee of100. 
"General Fugh and I were the only representatives invited from the Committee of 100," Woo said. "He knew everyone, made sure that I was properly introduced and kept taking pictures of me in front of different presidential portraits." · 
The luncheon started at 11:30 
a.m. and was held in various rooms in the East Wing of the White House. 
"My favorite room was the yel­low room -the sitting room for the Ladies' bathroom and where portraits of the First Ladies were hung," Woo said. 
see WOO/page 6 

SMC update gives optimistic analysis 
Budget, identity, building addressed 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's communi­ty experienced a resurgence of optimism Tuesday follow­ing three sessions of joint presentations, which provid­ed updates on the College's budget, identity initiative and new academic building. 
Vice President of Finance Laurie Stickelmaier began each of the presentations with a somber recollection of past years' budget projec­tions. 
"When we had the September 2004 budget con­versation, things were not in real good shape," she said. 
Stickelmaier said at that time the College had finished the last two years with deficits -a trend that was projected to continue into the near future. 

"We had projected, at that time, deficits for the years to come reaching from two to three million dollars," she said. 
In order to deal with ­and possibly reverse -this downward trend, Stickelmaier said the College considered many areas where budget cuts could be made. 
Almost two years later ­after a $4 million transfer of Plant Fund Reserves to an quasi-endowment fund, reductions of non-salary expenditures, a decrease in costs of employee benefits, reductions in employee posi­tions through attrition, retirement and restructur­ing, and leaving vacant posi­tions open for longer periods of time -Stickelmaier said 
see COLLEGE/page 6 

ND tnay help fund museutn 
D.C. Catholic cultural center fights deficit 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 
The University is examining the possibility of helping a struggling Catholic museum in Washington, D.C. University spokesman Dennis Brown said Tuesday. 
Brown emphasized that com­munication between officials from the John Paul II Cultural Center -which is facing a $40 million deficit -and the University is "very prelimi­nary." 
"We're in the analysis process of taking a look at what role we might play on a num­ber of levels, if any," Brown said. "Is this something that would be in our or the Center's best interest? That's why it's important for us to do due dili­gence." 
Backed by Detroit Cardinal Adam Maida, the Cultural Center opened in March 2001 and sits on 12 acres. The muse­um houses art from the Vatican and a research center but, according to a May 2 article in the Detroit Free Press, has struggled to attract visitors. 
Brown said the Center con­tacted the University earlier this year about what role it might play in the Center's future. 
The dialogue between the University and the Cultural Center was reported in the May 2 Detroit Free Press article. 
see MUSEUM/page 4 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, May 3, 2006 





INSIDE COLUMN 

The Churchill Down Low 
It's that time ofyear again, the time 
when all inside columns begin with that 
same trite truism, a'i we all prepare to 
have our critieal capadties tested. 
By thn nnd of this wnek, after tirelessly 
studying liJr every 
possible angle, we Tim Dougherty 
invariably ask our­
selves, is all the 
money wn spend Sports Writer 
worth it. Tuition? 
llellno. Gambling. 
The 132nd Kentucky Derby is 
Saturday and the only book these eyes 
are going to see is my bookie. So whether 
you're racing down to Louisville or plac­
ing oll'-track bets, I humbly oll'er to you 
some words of advice from a perennial 
Derby dilettante. (NOT a connoisseur­
that's just another word for an addict.) 
First things first, ignore the animal­
rwigh, athlete-who's picked first. The 
favorite never wins-that is unless he's 
the underdog. Since 1979, only two race­
day favorites have won, Smarty Jones 
(2004) and Fusaiehi Pega'ius (2001); one 
almost died a<; a liJal and the other wa<> 
Japanese. 
lnstnad li>eus on horses two through 
four and get yourself a racing book that 
contains all the horses' pa<>t perliJrmanc­
es-place, distance, track condition, 
and spend rating. Pay attention to speed 
ratings (it is the (;realest Two Minutes in 
SporL'i), which give a good indication of 
the horse's top ability as it faces the 
toughest competition in the world (e.g. 
Kentucky, where they take !-,rmater e(l'ort 
to brned thnir horsns than they do their 
people.). 
Onn~ you've narrowed it down to a few eontnnders. here comes the most impor­t.ant part (you girls will like it, well that and tho haL'i): pick tlw one with thn best name. Seriously. Some lind that a bit unsdentilk, but think about it, when a bn~(~dnr thinks he ha'i a !-,rrnat horse, he's going to honor it with a damn-tine name -one that rolls oil' the front of the tongue like a mint julep down the back of it. 
Since 1990, the champion at tradition­steep(l)ed Churchill Downs ha'i had a name like Unbridled, Silver Charm, Charismatic, War Emblem. Throw in earlier Triple Crown victors like Secretariat and Citation and c'mon, pick the most awe-inspiring name-it behooves you. 
Now comes the most essential part, betting. Don't bet to win, place or show; it's safe, spineless, and stupid if you want to make money. The combo bets are exacta-lly what you want. Pick the exac­ta (top two in order). Or try the trifecta (top three in order) and if you're watch­ing the race on 'IV with your ticket in one hand and a sandwich in the other, you're only a lilly away from trifection. Or, ironically, you can box your horses to open up your chances, so that with an exaeta-box (quinella) or a tri-box your horses can finish in those positions in any order. 
The secret of boxes is the key. A tri­key, whieh I strongly recommend, makes you pick the winnnr and then choose throe other horses to finish second and third in any order. So you get one extra pick and it pays off between the value of a trililcta and a tri-box. I don't want to brag or anything (that's a bald-faced lie), but I made $.'550 on a $2 bet this way in the 2004 D(lrby taking Smarty Jones on top (that means to win) with lion Heart (fmished second), Imperialism (finished third) and Iimehouse (did not finish in the money). (Note that Lion lleart and Imperialism aren't exactly summer camp horseback riding names.) 
II' all else fails, gnt buddins to throw in live grand each (like 2003 champ Funny Cide's owners) and buy a Derby winner yourself'. Anything to horse around belilre finals. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: How WILL YOU BE SPENDING YOUR STUDY DAYS? 


Paul Switaj  Tom Johnson  Meghan Johnson  Megan LaDriere  Leah Miller  
senior off-campus  senior off-campus  freshman Cavanaugh  freshman Cavanaugh  freshman Lewis  
"Figuring out how to be more like Jed Eide. ''  "Competing not only for the pride ofmy hood, but for $1,ooo cash money.  "Spending time with my brother because he is graduating. "  "Figuring out how to propose to the love of my life-Meghan Johnson."  "Eating the fruit my parents sent me in my fruit basket."  

Age is not an apparent issue for Malaysian odd couple 
KUAlA LUMPUR, Malaysia -A 33-year-old man in northern Malaysia has mar­ried a 104-year-old woman, saying mutual respect and friendship had turned to love, a news report said Tuesday. 
It was Muhamad Noor Che Musa's first marriage and hls wife's 21st, aecording to The Star newspaper which cited a report in the Malay-lan­guage llarian Metro tabloid. 
Muhamad, an ex-army serviceman said he found peace and a sense of belong­ing after meeting Wook Kundor, whom he said he ini-
TODAY IX 

year-old was found by a Wal­Mart employee in the bath­room Sunday night after he sat down and was glued to the toilet seat. 
The man, whose name was not released by police, was taken to the hospital late Sunday night, said Lt. Cheryl Rantz of the Salisbury Police Department. 
"The man had gone into the bathroom and sat down," she said. "He was banging on the wall when the employee came in." 
Rantz said the man was treated and released. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

tially sympathized with because she was childless, old and alone, the report said. 
"I am not after her money, as she is poor," Muhamad reportedly said. "Before meeting Wook, I never stayed in one place for long." 
He said he hoped to help his new bride to master Roman script while she taught him Islamic religious knowledge. 
The report did not say if any of Wook's previous 20 husbands are still alive. 
Man found glued to toilet In Maryland Wai-Mart SALISBURY, Md. -A 20­
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 





HIGH LOW 

1.&.1 
::t: 
~ 
1.&.1 
3: 
....I c( 
0 
0 
HIGH 78 68 HIGH HIGH
..... 
LOW 52 52 LOW LOW 
65 44 
62 40 

IN BRIEF 
The End of The School Year Gospel Bash will take place tonight at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. The event costs $4 for students and $5 for the general public. 
Collegium Musicum, a small vocal ensemble from the Notre Dame community specializing in sacred and secular music from the Medieval, Renaissance, and Baroque eras, is performing tonight at 7 and H:30 p.m. in the Reyes Organ and Choral Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $:J for all seats. 
The Saint Mary's music department will host a spring choral concert Thursday from 7::10 p.m. -9:30 p.m. in the Little Theater in the Moreau Center for the Arts. The concert will feature per­formances by the Collegiate Choir, Bellacapella and the Women's Choir. 
The Irish baseball team will play Louisville at 6:05 
p.m. Friday at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Household and miscella­neous items will be for sale to students and general public at the NO-Surplus sale on Saturday from 8 a.m. -12 
p.m. at 925 N. Eddy Street (next to the Hobinson Center). 
The Irish women's lacrosse team will close out its regular season against Vanderbilt at 12 p.m. Sunday in Moose Krause Stadium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


HIGH 62 LOW 40 
Atlanta 83 1 59 Boston 53 I 46 Chicago 73 I 54 Denver 60 I 41 Houston 88 I 69 Los Angeles 68 I 57 Minneapolis 62 I 49 New York 69 149 Philadelphia 72 1 52 Phoenix 97 I 69 Seattle 67 I 42 St. Louis 79 I 61 Tampa 86 I 64 Washington 73 I 54 

Wednesday, May 3, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


• < ,:g:
•



RT.L' 
New Look. Better Lifestyle. Still Closest to Campus. 
.---------------------------------------~ 
G:t
EQUAL HOUSING 
OPPORTUNITY 
NDSurplus recycles used office supplies 
ments do not want. QuarterlyBy EMMA DRISCOLL 
Saturday sales are open to 
News Writer 
the public, students, faculty and staff, Gibney said. 
Hather than throwing away The next Saturday sale willdesks that are in good condi­
be this weekend from 8:00tion or keeping extra filing 
a.m.-noon, according to the
cabinets that will never be 
NDSurplus Web site. The Webused, University Procurement site also includes a real-timeServices -through its three­
list of surplus inventory to 
year old NDSurplus program 
help people find what they
-gathers superfluous equip­need.
ment and supplies throughout Gibney said NDSurplus alsothe campus and makes them promotes and offers surplus
easily available to other properties to non-profits,
departments, students, facul­
including churches and
ty and the public. 
schools.

"We have computers, desks, 
As a "not for profit exer­chairs, wardrobes -anything cise," Gibney said the pro­
you can think of that is out on 
gram is "really to get [sur­cam pus is there," said Tim 
plus) out for additional use orGibney, vice president of busi­to recycle." Proceeds from the 
ness operations. "We have sales go toward paying the
everything from coffee mak­recycler to recycle the prod­
ers to computer peripherals." Gibney described uct. 
"We're not putting into theNDSurplus as a program that waste stream as far as dump­
"take[s] Notre Dame prod­
ing [product] -we're payinguct[s] that [have[ been used 
for a recycler to basicallyby someone and -rather 
recycle it," said Gibney. 
than going and being thrown 
Gibney said the program,
in the dump -having it go 
designed to save money
for a good purpose." 
rather than make money, cre­
Gathered products are ated a savings "in [the]
offered to departments ·of the $300,000 range" in the pastUniversity on a weekly basis 
year.

at no charge, which saves the 
"When students see thingsdepartments money, Gibney being replaced, you can bet
said. 
that the old product is goingFaculty, staff and students down to NDSurplus," he said. 
can go to 925 North Eddy Street Thursdays, from 11 
a.m. -3 p.m. to purchase Contact Emma Driscoll at reused products that depart-edriscol@nd.edu 
•Newly 
Remodeled 

•Walk 
to Campus 


Rent from 

• Sparkling Pool 
$560*

• Covered Parking 
Up to 1/2 Month Free Real! 
-~~:: 

(888)-278-5962 1710 E. Turtle Creek Dr 
Professor stirs nuclear discussion 
You're Invited for Free Food, Drinks and Desserts!!! 4/29 2:00-5:00 4/30 12:00-5:00 5/2 3:00-6:00 5/5 3:00-6:00 5/6 2:00-5:00 
5/7 12:00-5:00 5/13 9:00-5:00 Check out our Newly Remodeled Homes! 
Lieber predicts U.S. will return to primacy 
By BECKY HOGAN 
News Writer 
With one sentence, a Notre Dame professor has made some very big waves. 
"The United States is on the verge of escaping a MAD [Mutual Assured Destruction I world," assistant professor of political sci­ence Keir Lieber said in a recent article, entitled "The Rise of U.S. Nuclear Primacy." 
From Web logs to statements from Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the comment elicited huge responses from the international community -most notably from Russia. 
Lieber, together with University of Pennsylvania professor Daryl Press, wrote the article, which appeared in the March/April2006 edition of Foreign Affairs Magazine. 
"We did anticipate controversy [from the article], but we did not anticipate the nature of the response," Lieber said. 
Lieber and Press' chief claim was that the United States "stands on the verge of attaining nuclear primacy" and that it may be pos­sible "for the United states to destroy long-range nuclear arse­nals of Russia and China with a first strike." In other words, the United States may have first­strike capabilities without the threat of a counter-attack. 
Since the Cold War era, schol­ars have argued that the most powerful nations with nuclear capabilities were equally vulnera­ble to attack -something that kept the world relatively peaceful. 

"Nuclear war was tantamount to suicide," Lieber said. "Neither side dared to attack the other." 
From computer models, Lieber and Press determined that the United States has outpaced Russia and China in developing its nuclear technologies. 
"We've taken traditional models of nuclear attacks using calcula­tions similar to those used during the Cold War," Lieber said. 
Lieber said though he believes war with Russia is highly implau­sible -he and Press compared the United States nuclear arsenal to Russia's because Russia is the next strongest nuclear state, pro­viding the hardest case against their claim of U.S. nuclear prima­cy. 
The responses from Russian cit­izens and officials indicate that there may indeed be weaknesses in the Russian nuclear arms pro­gram. According to several press accounts, the article had wide­spread influence in Russia and forced top political and military leaders to respond, including Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the former Russian Prime Minister Yegor Gaidar and Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov. 
"No serious analyst of the Russian nuclear force would dis­pute how much Russia's nuclear arsenal has decayed," Lieber said. 
The article said that while Russia's nuclear program seems to have "decayed," China's nuclear program has continued to develop -albeit at an extremely slow pace. 
In addition, some reactions in Russia question whether the arti­cle is a warning signal from the United States government. Foreign Affairs managing editor Gideon Rose told The Observer that it was ridiculous to assume that the article was a deliberate attempt to coerce Russia. 
"The reason that it struck a cord in Russia was that it made public in a very provocative way something that many security experts understood, but that Russian citizens may not have [understood]," Rose said. "We thought it would provoke a response, but even we were sur­prised by just how strong the response was in Russia." 
Lieber and Press expected the American government would deny attempting to attain a nuclear advantage as the article proposes, however no such state­ments have been issued. 
"The focus on Iran and Iraq, while justified, has allowed us to miss what could be an equally significant -and potentially very troubling -nuclear develop­ment," Lieber said. 
Although Lieber and Press said the United States has "nuclear primacy" for now, the issue could lead to a nuclear arms race if China and Russia choose to respond by building more nuclear weapons. 
Lieber and Press began compil­ing data for the article about two years ago. Press said that he was motivated to study the issue because he felt it was important to open up debate about U.S. nuclear policy. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
Turtlecreek-IN @aimco.com 
South Bend, IN 4663 7 
www.CampusCribs.net
*Prices subject to change 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, May 3, 2006 
'Old to Gold' prepares sale 
Yearly event recycles items to aid charities 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
For students living in resi­dence halls, the last two weeks is a scramble to pass room inspections, pack belongings and study for exams. And for these resi­dents, it may seem easier to toss the carpet in the dump­ster or throw away that cof­fee pot on the way out of the dorm rather than find a storage facility or stuff it in a crowded box. 
But for the second year in a row, the "From Old to Gold" sale offers students a way to donate items they do not plan to use anymore and do not want to store over the summer. 

Last year, 54 tons of items that may have gone to the dumpster found a new home in the South Bend area instead. 
Alan Bigger, the director of building services and the organizer of "From Old to Gold," said he modeled char­ity yard sale after the "Trash to Treasure" event at Pennsylvania State University. Notre Dame debuted its program last year and raised over $27,000 for local charities. This year's goal is to raise $50,000 dollars to benefit 38 local charitable agencies, Bigger said. 
Notre Dame organizers, along with workers from the United Way of St. Joseph's County, began collecting donations from each of the 27 residence halls this week. 
"Last year the halls were really great," Bigger said. "If I could make an all around 
applause I would." 
He said student participa­tion looks like it will be more impressive this year. On Monday, Bigger said he collected a greater number of donated items from the dorms than he did on the first collection day last year. 
"From Old to Gold" is 
interested in electronics, 
carpets, futons, clothing and 
unopened food, provided 
they are in good condition, 
Bigger said. Signs outside 
each dorm indicate where 
students should place their 
items. Bigger asks that stu­
dents tape up rolled-up car­
pets, bundle and tie pieces 
of wood and tie shoes 
together to facilitate the col­
lection process. 
"Last year we ended up with ten thousand shoes and we had to sort them all," Bigger said. 
The "From Old to Gold" sale will be held Saturday, May 27 from 7-11 a.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. The sale is open to the public, but a $5 early admission fee will be charged to customers who want to shop before 9 a.m. 
Last year, nearly 4,000 people attended the first annual sale: Bigger esti­mates 2,000 people were lined up outside the stadium before the gates even opened at 7 a.m. Tables and merchandise took up 55,000 square feet of the Stadium's concourse, and all but four items were sold, Bigger said. 
Electronics -televisions, computers, printers, and DVD players -were the most highly sought after items. Shoppers purchased every item from this depart­ment within fifteen minutes of the gates opening, Bigger said. 
Bigger said he was amazed by the quantity of some of the items at last year's sale. He said students donated two or three thousand pairs of jeans, as well as countless plastic storage crates and coffee pots. 
"We would encourage peo­ple to give items that they would not have use for and then we could put them to use with other persons," Bigger said. 
He said the great thing about the first "From Old to Gold" sale last year was that it took items that would have ended up in a dump­ster and recycled them into the local community. An added benefit of the sale is that the money raised from the sale of the donated items goes to charities. 
"It was like a closed loop system, and everybody bene­fited, and nothing went into the local landfills," Bigger said. 
The Penn State program let students contribute to the local community in a benefi­cial way, Bigger said. He said he heard of people com­ing to the "Trash to Treasure" sale from over 200 miles away. 
"The program tied the stu­dent body together with the community in a somewhat symbiotic relationship," Bigger said. 
Bigger said "From Old to Gold" does not seem to have quite a wide-ranging draw yet, but he knows people come from all over the sur­rounding areas and he has received good feedback about the program from local residents. 
"I think it really improves the town-gown relation­ship," Bigger said. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
CLAP 
continued from page 1 

organizer Kamaria Porter 
"very disappointed." 

"They say it takes time, but how much time?" she said. "We'll fight until we win. This issue is not going away." 
While CLAP did not have an 
appointment scheduled with 
Jenkins, the group arrived at 
the Office of the President at 
10 a.m. and was stopped at the 
door by security members pre­
pared for the planned sit-in. 
CLAP members, all wearing yellow armbands, were told that Jenkins was not in. However, an assistant came out to receive the petitions and a letter to Jenkins. 
In the letter, CLAP expressed its belief that the existing Staff Advisory Council -mentioned by Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves in an April 19 statement as the appropri­ate venue for workers to raise concerns -is "ineffective in addressing the needs of work­ers." 
"[Y]our administration has refused to give us a definitive response to our call for a task force that was first presented in September, responding that these things take time," the letter read. "We gather today to demand an answer on whether or not you're willing to establish a Just Employment Task Force, and to deliver signed petitions demonstrating our support base." 
The group proceeded to sit outside the Office of the President, speaking with mem­bers of the media and asking passing individuals to sign their petition and include their name, address, telephone number, e-mail and affiliation with Notre Dame. 
Around 10:40 a.m., two group members attempted to 
enter the office and were told 
that no one was available to 
speak with them. 

Jenkins returned to his office 
around 11:30 a.m. and deliv­
ered his statement to the group 
shortly after. 

In the statement, Jenkins 
addresses CLAP's concern for 
social justice by saying 
University policy is grounded 
in Catholic social teaching. 

"At Notre Dame, we value the contributions of every member of our staff, who help make this university the spe­cial place it is. And we are committed to paying fair and just wages and benefits to our workers, as a matter of justice and of fidelity to Catholic social teaching." 
While the sit-in was planned to be an hour in length, four members of the group stayed until around 4:30 p.m., when approximately 30 people returned for a last effort. The supporters prayed a decade of the rosary and then chanted for a living wage as they left the Main Building. 
Porter said the group could not let the semester end with­out trying to get Jenkins' attention one more time. 
"We can't let workers go into the graduation weekend work­ing basically overtime on these poverty wages and not do any­thing about it," she said. 
Porter said the group plans to have another press confer­ence in the near future and will continue to work toward their goals. CLAP's campaign began Sept. 29, 2005, she said, and will continue indefinitely. 
"We got the same sort of non-answer," she said. "Even 30 members of the Notre Dame community couldn't get any recognition, so I don't know what it will take ... but we're gonna keep on going." 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd.edu 


Museu01 
continued from page 1 
The news comes after a tense spring on campus marked by heated debates over academic freedom and 
Write News. Call Amanda. 
1-5323 

Catholic character and a stu­dent-initiated living wage movement. 
Brown would not comment on what type of involvement the University would pursue or when the University would make a decision. 
"There is no timeline on it from our perspective," Brown said. 
The Cultural Center is next door to Catholic University of America and behind the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at 
mmalone3@nd.edu 

So, you w nt 

NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 

Pre-Law Summer Institute 
JUNE 19-23, 2006 • CHICAGO CAMPUS 
a lawyer? 
Developed and taught by faculty of the Northwestern University School of Law, this one-week noncredit institute introduces participants to five main topics: Introduction to the American legal system, legal writing, analysis, sources of law, and the components of oral argumentation. 
• 
Explore a possible future in the legal profession 


• 
Sharpen your critical thinking and analytical reasoning skills 

• 
Network with experienced professionals in the field of law 

• 
Prepare for and get ahead in the law school admissions process 


Register today! 


847-491-5250 NORTHWESTERN 
www.northwestern.edu/summer UNIVERSITY 
T/1~ Northwestern Pre-Ldw Summer lostitute IS a 110n·credit program developed by lhe Northweslem Universtty School ol Law .and School of ConUrwmg Studies. 

ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, May 3, 2006 COl'v1PILED fROM THE OBSERVER'S W!RE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iran threatens Israel if U.S. attacks 
TEHRAN. Iran -A Revolutionary Guards commander said Tuesday that Israel would be Iran's first retaliatory target in response to any 
U.S. attack, a provocative threat that reinforced the Iranian president's past call for Israel to be "wipnd oil' the map." 
"We have announced that wherever [in Iran] Amnriea does make any mischief, the first place we target will be Israel," the Iranian Student News Agency quoted Gen. Mohammad Ebrahim Dehghani as saying. 
Dehghani, a top commander of the elite Revolutionary Guards, also said Israel was not prnpan~d to go to war against Iran. 
Official confirms terrorist's capture 
KABUL, Afghanistan -A top al-Qaida strategist with a $5 million bounty on his head and followers from Afghanistan tlY Europn has been captured in Pakistan, a U.S. law enforcement ollieial confirmed. 
Mustafa Setmarian Nasar, who once wrote a 1 ,600-page autobiographical book on ways to attack Islam's enemies, has been flown out of the country aftnr being interrogated by Pakistani and American authorities, Pakistani ollicials told The Assoeiated Press on Tuesday. They did not specify where he was taken. 
Terror analysts said Nasar's capture has dealt a blow to al-Qaida and other militant movements he aided through his virulent anti-Western writings and weapons training. llis movements have been traced to Sudan; Afghanistan. Iran, Iraq, Syria and two Europnan capitals. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Sago Mine hearing raises questions 
BUCKHANNON, W.Va.-"Did our dad have to· die?" Peggy Cohen wanted to know Tuesday as mine safety regulators opened an emotional public hearing on questions still surrounding the January disaster that left 12 men dying deep inside the Sago Mine. 
Wives and children of the other miners fol­lowed her to the microphone, some clutching framed photos of the victims. 
"We assure you, Mr. Politicians, that we're not going to let this rest," said John Groves, whose brother Jerry Groves was among the victims. "We know in our hearts that this can be corrected. It needs to be done immediate­ly, it needs to be done now. And it's on you." 
GOP leaders agree to extend tax cuts 
WASliiNGTON -Majority Republicans have reached agrnement in prineiple on legislation to extend tax cuts on capital gains and divi­dends for two years and keep 15 million middle income taxpayers from getting hit with a tax designed for the wealthy, GOP aides said late Tuesday. 
llowever. final passage of the measure is being linked by Senate Finance Committee Chairman Charles Grassley to achieving an agreement with House Republicans over the outlines of a second package of tax breaks, according to Republican staffers who spoke on condition of anonymity because the deal has not yet been announced by their bosses. 
These aides said they expected the disputes on the contents of the second bill to be resolved quickly so that the legislation extending tax breaks for capital gains and dividends can win quick approval by the lull House and Senate. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Trial seeks a non-Allen County jury 
FOHT WAYNE, Ind. -Jurors will be chosen from outside Allen County in the capital mur­der trial of a man accused of killing his wife and three daughters, a judge ruled Tuesday. 
Attorneys f{>r Simon Rios argued that pretri­al publicity would make impartial jurors hard or impossible to lind. 
Hios, 34, of Fort Wayne is charged with four counts of murder in the Dee. 13 deaths of his wife Ana Casas, 28, and the couple's three daughters: 10-year-old Liliana, 4-year-old Katherinne and 20-month-old Thannya Rios. 
Prosecutors announced Monday they would seek the death penalty in the ease. 
NIGERIA 

Darfur talks to be prolonged 
U.S. Envoy reports African Union will extend Sudan's peace pact deadline 
Associated Press 
ABUJA -A top U.S. envoy said the African Union will extend its Tuesday midnight deadline for a peace pact aimed at resolving the violence in Sudan's Darfur region. 
Deputy Secretary of State Robert B. Zoelliek spoke with time running out on the time limit for mediators to get rebels and the gov­ernment to strike a deal. 
U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Robert B. Zoelliek said late Tuesday that the Africa Union planned to announce the extension, as he waded into the long-stymied talks, pressuring the various fac­tions to strike a deal. British Cabinet member Hilary Benn joined him. 
"I believe there has to be an end to this process," Zoellick said. 
But as time ticked away, there was no word from the AU on an extension and rebels stuck to their demands for concessions on security and power-sharing. 

The Sudanese govern­ment said it approved a draft of the peace deal to end fighting that has killed at least 180,000 people and left millions more homeless. The draft was first circulat­ed last week at the African Union-hosted talks. cide. though they also have bat­porting Darfur rebels. The 
"We asked him [Zoellick] During the call, Bush tled each other for territory violence-threatens to esca­to put pressure on the gov­urged al-Bashir to send his and at least one has devel­late: Osama bin Laden last ernmerlt side so that we can Vice President Ali Osman oped its own internal fac­week urged his followers to have a balanced paper -Mohammed Taha, who left tions. go to Sudan to fight a pro­and then we can sign it," Ahuja Monday, back to the The Justice and Equality posed U.N. presence. said Ahmed Hussein, a peace talks, White House Movement is closely linked The African Union had spokesman for the Justice press secretary Scott to Islamic fundamentalists. originally set a Sunday and Equality Movement, McClellan said. The presi­Decades of low-level trib­deadline for the end to one of the Darfur rebel fac­dent told al-Bashir to accept al dashes over land and peace talks, but extended tions. a U.N. peacekeeping mis­water in Darfur erupted that by 48 hours when the 
President Bush called sion backed by NATO logis­into large-scale violence in rebels rejected the AU­Sudanese President Omar tics and training for Darfur. early 2003. The central drafted proposed peace al-Bashir on Monday night Zoelliek was dispatched to government is accused of agreement. about the importance of the peace talks after thou­responding by unleashing The African Union has peace in Darfur, according sands of people rallied over Arab tribal militias known also selected five African to the official Sudan Press the weekend in the United as Janjaweed upon civil­heads of state to help Agency and Frederick States calling for an end to ians. Sudan denies backing ensure that any agreement Jones, a spokesman for violence and deprivation in the Janjaweed. on Darfur is accepted by all Bush's National Security Darfur. _ Darfur has been a staging parties, said the Republic of Council. Two main rebel groups ground for Chadian rebels, Congo's U.N. Ambassador 
Bush has described gov­both accuse the central gov­who have risen up against Basile Ikouebe, whose ernment-backed attacks on ernment of neglecting the government there, and country is the current chair civilians in Darfur as geno-impoverished Darfur, Sudan accuses Chad of sup-of the 53-nation bloc. 

Debate delays interrogation policy 
eions that the United States was violat­The Pentagon and the Army have
Associated Press 

ing international and U.S. laws and been reviewing a draft of the manual 
WASHINGTON -A debate over rules governing detainee treatment. for more than a year and were about to whether to keep certain interrogation Those conversations led defense offi­release a final version last week when techniques secret is holding up the cials to privately debate which parts -debate over it intensified. The Bush release of a long-awaited military man­if any -to keep secret, according to administration is treading carefully on ual on the treatment of detainees. several Capitol Hill and senior defense the issue, mindful that detainee treat­
Coming more than two years after officials. They spoke on the condition of ment has the potential to become a photographs surfaced showing U.S. anonymity because the discussions high-profile controversy once again, troops beating, intimidating and sexu­were private and the manual has not this time in an election year. ally abusing prisoners at Abu Ghraib in yet been made public. In a private meeting at the Pentagon Iraq, the new Army field manual was The classified section was planned to last week, Sens. John Warner of initially supposed to include a classified provide detailed guidelines on what Virginia and Carl Levin of Michigan, section. can and can't be done to detainees -the top Republican and Democrat on 
In recent days, however, several for example, how long they can be the Senate Armed Services Committee, members of Congress privately cau­forced to sit or stand in certain posi­broached the issue of the manual's tioned the Pentagon that keeping parts tions or exactly how hot or cold their classified section with Deputy Defense of the manual secret could raise suspi-holding areas can be kept. Secretary Gordon England. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, May 3, 2006 
some heated options and some Go mix. items that are a little easier to "Cherry pie would be my first
Meals 

bring back to the dorm and keep pick," Corboy said. fi1r a couple of days without hav­After contacting Food Services'
continued from page I 

ing to use them right away," he Dave Prentkowski and talking als and fruit. said. "There will be nine or tfm with him about the fi.~a<>ibility of 
l~ach itmn is <L-;si~-,rrwd a dilli~r­items in total on the survey and making changes to tho Grab and nnt number of points and stu­about three or four will be cho­Go options, Andriehik and cur­dents may fill thnir brown bags sen based upon student rent student body president Iizzi with snvnn points worth of food rnsponsn." Shappell made Grab and Go or bnvnragns. lie said both Student changes part of their campaign 
Student Government plans to Government and Food Services platform when they ran for elec­administnr survnys sometime this have approved Hamen. Ea-;y Mac tion earlier in the semester, wonk to mea-;urP curnmt student and microwaveable popcorn a-; a Andrichik said. salislaetion with the system and few of the ti.~asible items. "The Grab and Go choices were to gnt li~ndbaek Junior by far the most asked about part they can sharn Kelly Hardy of our platform when we eam­with Notre "We are suggesting some said she paigned door to door," he said. Damn's Food would like to Since their election, Andrichik
items that are more 
Serviens, stu­see a greater said he and Shappell have "fol­
traditional snacks, some
dent body vice variety of lowed up on the initial contact we president Bill heated options and some drink selec­made with Food Services in order Andrkhik said. tions in the to work with them throughout
items that are a little 
"We had new Grab the process." Andrichik added
easier to bring back to the
experimented and Go sys­that Food Services has been with on-line dorm and keep for a· tem. extremely helpful and have "gone options but will "Cans of through the trouble of contacting 
couple ofdays without 
ultimately be pop would dealers, checking into space con­
having to use them right 
using a paper be nice siderations, and researching survey with away. instead of prices for the suggested items. pick-up and just milk or They have even provided point eollnction sites juice or values for how much each item 
Bill Andrichlk 
located in the water," would cost students next year to
student body vice president
dining halls Hardy said. aid in students' decisions when and in "We're col­they are ranking the items." LaFortune," lege stu­Collaboration between Student Andrichik said. "The collection denl<>; we need caffeine and some Government and Food Services process will probably take place of us just don't drink coffee." has resulted in "a survey that over study days and tho first cou­John Corboy, a busy civil engi­reflects student input and has the ple days of finals." neering major who estimates he approval of Food Services," 
Andriehik said all of the items uses Grab and Go about two or Andrichik said. of the survey have been finalized. three times a week for lunch, "We arn suggesting some items said he would vote for slices of Contact Meghan Woos at that arn more traditional snacks, pie to be added to the Grab and mwons@nd.edu 
when I was twelve.' She was Michelle Kwan." 
Woo 

Before the luncheon eonduded at 2:50 p.m., a blue grass band
continued from page 1 
played, Woo said. 

After greeting President Bush "Bush lovnd it and llu wa-; ram­
and being introduced to President rod straight," Woo noted. 
Hu Jintao, The presi­
Woo said she "mingled with  "We cannot afford to have  dents took to a podium to  
John and Gwen Bolton, shook the hands of Dick  US. and China working at odds with each other. We also have major trade  address the luncheon attendees. "I saw that  
and Lynn Cheney, exchanged greetings with Condeleeza IEee as fellow Domers, dis­cussed issues  relationships that serve the interest ofboth countries. I do believe both leaders recognize these issues and will find a way to build rapport. "  the presidents worn practical, comfortable shoes," Woo said. "The C h i n e s e President talked a lot  
of China-U.S.  about collabo­ 
trade relations with Carla Hills, gawked at Scott  Carolyn Woo Dean of Mendoza College of Business  ration and the efforts for peace and he sounded sin- 
McClellan and  cere."  
stood in front  When asked  

of Henry and Nancy Kissinger in if she had any personal hopes for the receiving line." China-U.S. relations, Woo said 
Woo said her table, at which she hoped the two countries Donald Rumsfeld was the host, would develop a stronger bond. was next to the table where Bush "We cannot afford to have [the] and Jintao were seated. U.S. and China working at odds 
"There was a mystery guest with each other. We also have 
seated next to President Bush," major trade relationships that Woo said. "General Fugh, who serve the interest of both coun­was seated to my right, tapped tries. I do believe both leaders her back and introduced himself recognize these issues and will a<> a member of the Committee of fmd a way to build rapport." 
100. She turned around and said, 'Yes, I remember you; the Contact Meghan Woos at Committee gave me an award mwons@nd.edu 

College 
continued from page 1 
the College is on its way to pulling out of the rod. 
The College also bolstered funds by using money left over from department budgets, reducing bills through water 
"Summer sessions 
and energy servative­conservation were successful last ly" Saint campaigns Mary's
year and are looking
and increas­should be 
to be even more

ing the use of m the 
consortia and successful this year." black for 2007, and cost-sharing in 2008 should have arrange­a surplus in the
Laurie Stickelmaler
ments, she range of $350,000."
VIce President of 
Stickelmaier alsosaid. 

Stiekelmaier Finance said the College focused on increasing rnvnnue to facilitate the move from dn!idt to surplus. She attributed thn increase sonn ovnr the last yt\ar to a rise in bookstore and food serviens sales, int:reased privatn foundation and federal grant fundraising, and the irnplnmnntation of a facilities fen to fund tht\ Studtmt Center operating costs and deprecia­tion of tlw building. 
Othnr potPn tial revenue sourcns -whirh Stieknlmaier said arn under considPration ­indudn the possii11P addition of rnorP professional programs, an intnrim program over winter brnak and tlw expansion of the summPr senwstnr program. 
"Sumnwr snssions were sue­cnssf'ul last year and are looking to lw even nwn' sun:nssful this year," she said. "We are still going to have a Considering the budget cuts deficit this year, but things are 
and inereased rev­enues -as well as a "flat" projection for expenses besides increases in salaries, utilities, cost of goods sold and depreciation -Stickelmaier said "estimat­ing con­
said these figures do not include potential increases 

in enrollment for the 2006-2007 academic year. 
"We are still going to have a deficit this year. but things are looking really fabulous. " 
Laurie Stickelmaler Vice President of Finance 

looking really fabulous," she said. 
Following Stickelmaier's presentation, vice president for enrollment management Dan Meyer and vice pres­ident of col­lege relations S h a r i Rodriguez 
provided an overview of the College's identity initiative progress, and lead architect Terry Steelman of Ballinger Architects described detailed plans for the new academic building. 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumgO I @saintmarys.edu 

Become stronger. smarter and more prepared to face any challenge. With over 150 careers to choose fron1. the Army 1s your chance to make a difference in your life and in the future of your country. Find out more at GOARMY.COM or calll-800-USA-ARMY. 
Where: 413 W. McKinley, Mishawaka, IN When= Monday -Friday, 9am -6pm 
For additional information call 
574-252-5319 
or visit 

..-----------------------------------~ -------­
Wednesday, May 3, 2006 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
11,416.45 +73.16
jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,046 156 1,186 2,457,178,650.00 
AM£X m:'::;~::~:j::':l~lllltl!l::l!llllllllll-:ltlllllr~'l 
NASDAQ 2 309.84 +5.05 
NYSE s~~~!llll:lllJI.III-~IIJ 
S&PSOO 1,313.21 +8.02 NIKKEI(Tok.yo) 17~tEII~~~··•-•••• 4-228:061 FTSE IOO(Lonclon) 6,082.10 +59.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  +0.27  +0.11  41.55  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +0.51 +0.10  19.59  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +0.81 +0.04  4.95  
MICROSOFr CP (MSFT)  -1.15  -0.28  24.0 I  
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU)  + 1.15 +0.04  3.52  

Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.41  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.75  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.52  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.24  
Commodities  

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($!Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
-0.21 +0.35 -0.27 -0.12  51.10 46.82 52.00 49.77  
+0.91 +7.20 -1 .48  74.61 667.40 85.70  

Exchan Rates 

YEN 113.3200 
EURO 0.7929 
POUND 0.5442 
CANADIAN$ 
1.1057 
IN BRIEF 
Visteon attains first quarter profit 
DETHOIT -Auto-parts supplier Visteon Corp. surprised Wall Street on Tuesday, swing­ing to a first-quarter profit and raising its full­year earnings outlook as its restructuring actions took hold and new business grew. 
Net income for the January-March period totaled $3 million, or 2 cents per share, com­pared with a loss of $163 million, or $1.30 per share, during the same period last year. Analysts, on average, had predicted a loss of 48 cents per share on revenue of $2.97 billion, according to a poll by Thomson Financial. 
Revenue declined 41 percent to $2.96 billion from $4.99 billion last year. The decline was primarily due to the shifting of 23 Visteon facilities to a Ford-managed business entity, Automotive Components Holdings LLC, in October 2005, the company said. Ford Motor Co. spun off Visteon in 2000. 
Visteon has a plant in Bedford, Ind., about 65 miles southwest of Indianapolis, that employs more than 900 people. 
Strong Verizon earnings lift stocks 
NEW YORK -Solid earnings from Verizon Communications Inc. lifted stocks Tuesday, sending the Dow Jones industrial average to its best close in six years even as oil prices neared an all-time high. 
Blue chip Verizon helped the Dow to its gains after saying its profit before special items topped Wall Street estimates. Elsewhere, Sirius Satellite Radio Inc. posted a smaller-than-expected loss amid sharp sub­scriber gains. 
There were no new economic reports. On Monday, data on consumer spending and industrial activity showed the economy is expanding at a healthy pace, but comments from FedP.ral Reserve Chairman Ben BernankP. reignited interest rate concerns and triggered a latP.-day selloff. 
With th1) Fed saying it could be near the end of its rate tightening, investors have bPc:onw spnsitive to any inflation signs that might lead to further increases in short-term IPnding ratPs. Hec:ord energy and metals pri!·ps havP some analysts questioning wlwtlwr thn cnntral bank has done enough to stmn inflation. 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 
BOLIVIA 

Leaders aim for more control 
Leftist government plans to regulate mining, forestry as well as natural gas industry 
Associated Press 
LA PAZ -Bolivia's leftist government said Tuesday it would extend control over mining, forestry and other sectors of the econo­my after President Evo Morales nationalized the country's huge natural gas industry. Foreign govern­ments warned relations could be damaged. 
Soldiers were posted at 56 gas installations around the country a day after Morales issued a decree that analysts say could drive petroleum companies from South America's poorest nation and isolate Bolivia from important allies like Brazil and Spain. 
The move solidifies Morales' role alongside Venezuela's Hugo Chavez and Cuba's Fidel Castro in Latin America's new axis of socialist-inclined leaders united against "capitalist, imperialist" U.S. influence. 
Morales said Monday that the gas decree "was just the beginning, because tomorrow it will be the mines, the forest resources and the land." Morales' planning minister earlier this month spoke of plans for "drastic reforms" of mining laws. 
On Tuesday, Vice President Alvaro Garcia Linera said mining compa­nies could face higher taxes and royalty payments and that the government will intensify enforcement of existing laws to break up big underdeveloped land holdings, apparently to turn them over to the poor. 
The government also will crack down on foreign tim­ber companies violating conservation laws, Garcia said, and would steer com­panies to export finished wood products rather than raw timber. 


While the gas national­ization decree was not unexpected, analysts called Morales' use of the army extreme, the images of sol­diers toting automatic weapons outside refineries and gas fields reminiscent of military dictatorships past. 
"With this move, he risks alienating natural and oth­erwise sympathetic part­ners like Brazil and Spain," said Michael Shifter, a Latin American analyst at the Inter-American Dialogue think tank in Washington. "Ordering the military to seize the natu­ral gas fields is unneces­sarily confrontational and antagonistic." 
President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil held an emergency Cabinet meeting to assess the impact on his nation-the biggest buyer of Bolivian gas and the owner of Petroleo Brasileiro SA, one of Bolivia's biggest gas pro­ducers. 
Petrobras President Sergio Gabrielli said offi­cials were seeking "to secure our rights" to Bolivian gas and the $1.6 billion that Petrobras has invested in Bolivia since the mid-1990s. 
Spain's Foreign Ministry summoned Bolivia's busi­ness attache to express "deep concern about the measure and the possible consequences for bilateral relations." 
The Spanish-Argentine Repsol YPF petroleum company is one of the largest foreign players in Bolivia and Argentina is the second-biggest market for Bolivian gas. 
Spain's Deputy Prime Minister Maria Teresa Fernandez de la Vega said Tuesday that the national­ization "is definitely nega­tive for Bolivia" and would likely deter foreign invest­ment. 
Besides Petrobras and Repsol, the biggest natural gas investors in Bolivia are Britain's BG Group PLC and BP PLC, France's Total SA and U.S.-based Exxon Mobil Corp. 

Lay finishes testifyillg at Emon trial 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -After exchanging some parting shots with his prose­cutor, Kenneth Lay finished six days of testimony at his federal fraud and conspiracy trial Tuesday by professing love for Enron Corp., the company he founded, and the peo­ple who worked there. 
"I loved Enron very much," Lay said in a brief response to the final question from his lawyer, George Secrest. "And I loved Enron's employees very much. I spent half my professional life running Enron. I think we built a great company. We changed energy markets around the world." 
"I think the most painful thing in my life was watching Enron finally have to go into bankruptcy." 
The comment was similar to his statement at the opening of his tes­timony last week. And as he has during more than a wnek on the witness stand, Lay jousted with prosecutor John Hueston, this time over taking responsibility for the implosion of the once-giant energy trading company. 

An accounting professor from the University of Southern California hired by the defense testified that Enron's accounting was sound. 
Jerry Arnold spent much of Tuesday afternoon on the stand dis­cussing accounting regulations in minute detail and offering an analy­sis of Enron's financial reporting. He focused on the third quarter of 2001 when Enron reported $638 million in losses and a $1.2 billion reduction in shareholder equity related to failed broadband and water-trading ventures as wP.Il as the unwinding of so-called Haptors. off-the-books financial structures backed by falling Enron stock. 
The government alleges Lay knew many Enron assets were overval­ued, that losses were coming and misrepresented this to the public. 
Arnold, who was to return to the stand Wednesday, said Enron accounting and financial reporting was proper. 
He acknowledged that he was paid more than $1 million for his work. 
''I'm here to provide my expertise on facts and circumstances," he said, defending the expenses. "''m not here, if you'll excuse the expression, to be a hired gun." 
Earlier, Lay continued to cite deceit by former Chief Financial Officer Andrew Fastow as being "at the heart" of Enron's collapse. 
"Your list of people to blame and events to blame did not include yourself. did it, sir?" Hueston asked him. 
"Did I make mistakns?" Lay replied. ''I'm sur!' I did. Mr. Hueston. I had to make rnal-time decisions based on the information I had at the time." 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, May 3, 2006 
MEXICO 
Migrants vvill have hot journeys 
Border Patrol predicts new laws will force illegals to change routes 
Associarcd Press 
SASABE -Wearing tight jeans and a glittery "bebe" T-shirt, the 17-year-old scrambled out of a paeked van as the temperature edged toward 90 degrees in this barren stretch of the LI.S.-Mexiean border. 
Carrying no hat or sun­sernen, the teenager who e a II o d hers1d r Adrian a Brnnda said the longest hike she'd taknn was through a shopping mall. But here she was, riHtdy for a three-day trnk across tho dnsert. 
Shn carried two gallons of water-enough, experts say, to knep her hydrated for two hours. 
As temperatures rise, the 

U.S. Bordnr Patrol and aid groups are gearing up for what they fnar eould be one of the deadliest summers for migrants sneaking into the Unitml Statns. 
The U.S. Senate is debat­ing a bill that could lock the border tighter than ever, and adivists foar the now of migrants is moving to an even hotter and more remote soetion of desert than the current favorite, an area south of Tucson, Ariz., where hundreds of people have died since 1994. 
Tlw desert around Tucson is crawling with 2,400 U.S. Border Patrol agents. Hille­bearing civilians known as Minutemen are also koeping wateh. 
In response, many migrants are crossing closer to Yuma, Ariz., where day­time temperatures can hover around 120 degrees -10-15 degrees hotter than around Tucson. 
Migrant deaths for the Yuma sector hit a rfH~ord 51 in 2005, up from 36 in 2004 and 15 in 2003, according to the Border Patrol. doned them and they acti­
Apprehensions have vated a rescue beacon. No jumped 16 percent for the one has been hit by a bomb, region -with 89,336 people Hays said. caught from October through Migrant groups estimate April, said Hiehard Ilays, a 500 people died trying to 
spokesman 
for the 
Border "We are already
Patrol in 
anticipating this shift 

Yuma. "We are in traffic and are 
already working to ensure the 
anticipating 
safety of those who are

this shirt in 
traffic and determined to get into arn working 
the United States in 

to onsurn 
violation of the law."

tho safety of 
those who 
are dntor­Richard Hays 
mined to get Border Patrol spokesman 
into the United States in violation of the law," he said. 
Those plans inelude erect­ing seven more rescue bea­cons in the Yuma sector ­there are now 12 -and adding agents, Hays said. 
Migrants have moved to more remote areas eaeh time the U.S. has cracked down on a section of the 2 ,000-mile-long border, activists say. 
The desort east of Yuma is one or the least forgiving. From the border, a migrant ean walk for 50 miles before reaching an interstate. 
In 2001, one of Arizona's worst migrant tragedies occurred in the area, when 14 people died in tempera­tures reaching 115 degrees. 
Adding to the danger is the Barry M. Goldwater Bombing Hange, where. the 
U.S. Air Force drops bombs to train for the war in Iraq. 
Last year, Border Patrol agents rescued five children, five women and four men from the bombing range after their smuggler aban­
?irs/ Or~'rjinaf:Azza in Joa1n / 
Since 1951 
Congratulations Graduates! Come celebrate with us! Open Sunday, May 21st 4-10pm 
537 North St. Louis • South Bend, IN 574-233-2464 
'Oiu-·91(, Rocco's has Dine-In Delivery 

~Seuitt Service Available! Call (574} 675-9999 
~~1 [lA ~Allt A~t, lJ~·~JOJ l~~~ IR~NW~~~ CIR~l~ l1J·~~~o www.womenscarecente~ 

cross the bor­der in 2005. The Border Patrol report­ed 415 deaths in the fiscal year ending Sept. 30. 
While that number includes peo­ple who drowned in the Hio Grande, died in car acci­dents and succumbed to 

Ice on wings caused Ebersol plane crash 
eold, the desert's searing heat takes the heaviest toll. 
In southern Arizona, Border Patrol agents rou­tinely run across people vomiting uncontrollably in the summer heat, their skin clammy, their eyes glazed over, said Aerr Eltringham, a Border Patrol spokesman in Tucson. Some migrants are found dead. 
On a recent afternoon, agents for the Mexican gov­ernment's Grupo Beta aid group distributed pamphlets to migrants preparing to cross. The pamphlets recom­mend carrying plenty of water, food and salt, and advise migrants to keep their clothing on to avoid dehydration and sunburn. If the heat gets to be too mueh, the pamphlets advise setting a fire to summon rescuers. 


THE 

Safety board advises cold weather safety guidelines 
Associated Press 

WASIIINGTON -A pilot's decision to visually inspect, but not to feel, the wings of his plane to check for iee caused a 2004 airplane erash in Colorado that killed the son of NBC Sports executive Diek Ebersol and two others, National Transportation Safety Board members concluded Tuesday. 
NTSB members met to decide the probable cause of the Nov. 28, 2004, crash that killed 14­year-old Teddy Ebersol, the pilot and a flight attendant. 
Board members issued sever­al recommendations and renewed appeals to the Federal Aviation Administration to require all pilots 
repeatedly asked the FAA to issue recommendations on checking for ice on wings. 
"We have too long been advo­cating changes," said Mark Hosenker, acting NTSB chair­man. "It's on our most-wanted list. This is a tragedy that should not have happened." 
The plane crashed shortly after taking off from the Montrose airport on Nov. 28, 2004. Other victims were pilot Luis Polaneo-Espaillat, 50, and flight attendant Warren Hichardson III, 36. At the time, the temperature was below freezing and there was snow on the ground and slush on the runway. 
NTSB investigators said Tuesday they had repeatedly warned pilots to cheek for iee on the wings, even if it wasn't visible, by running their hands along the surface. 
Before Polaneo-Espaillat took off, he and his eo-pilot looked out tlw window to cheek the condition of the wings of the twin-engine Canadair jet. According to the cockpit recorder, the pilot said "Looks dear to me." 
Investigators have sif'ted through wreckage, examined pieturns, transcripts and inter­views of witnessHs and passlm­
gers. 

According to 
a preliminary 
to feel their air­"This is a tragedy report released 
craft's wings for earlier this
that should not have 
ice and to train year, Dick and pilots on how to happened." Charlie Ebersol fly in winter -another son, weather condi­who survived
Mark Rosenker 
tions. the crash ­
NTSB acting chairman
The NTSB has reported seeing 
liquid or slush 
on the plane 
before takeoll". 

The Ebersols were on their way from the airport near the ski community of Telluride, Colo., to South Bend, Ind., to take Charlie Ebersol back to college. 
The plane skidded across the runway, rippnd apart and burst into flames. Diek and Charlie Ebersol and the first officer were seriously injured. 

Proprietors Warren & Linda 

FISCH OFF 
NATIONAL CHAMBER MUSIC COMPETITION 
See it, hear it, believe it. 
May 5-7 University of Notre Dame 
Friday, May 5th (free) 

Senior Strings  9:30-5  
Senior Winds  9:30-5  
Juniors  9:30-7  

Saturday, May 6 (free)  
DeBartolo, PAC  Senior Strings  9:30-11  DeBartolo, PAC  
Washington Hall  Senior Winds  9:30-11 Washington Hall  
DeBartolo, PAC  Juniors  1-5  DeBartolo, PAC  

Sunday, May 7, FINAL ROUND Leighton Concert Hall, DeBartolo PAC 
Tickets required: 631-2800  
Senior Finals II :30-3; Junior Finals Grand Prize Winner's Playoff Concert  3-4 7:30  
visit www.fischoff.org  

Wednesday, May 3, 2006 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Police find kidnapped teenager barely alive 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Ashley Heeves had boon lying in the woods for more than 30 hours by the time searchers spotted her through the driving rain. The 17 -year­old was covered with insect bites. her back was broken. and investigators were sure she was dead -until she took a breath. 
A day earlier, authorities now believe, a high school teacher tried to kill her. 
"It was almost disbelief that she was still alive," investigator Steve .Johnson of the St. Clair County, Ill., Sheriff's lkpartment. recalled Tuesday. 
They had to clear brush and trees to get a stretcher to the girl. then rushed her to Cardinal Glennon Children's llospital in St. Louis, where she was in serious condition Tuesday. 
.Johnson is now helping build a case against the 26-year-old teacher and wannabe pro­wrestler, Samson Shelton. who is jailed on $1 million bond and chargPd with kidnapping and attomptPd murder. 
Authorities have said Ashley and Shelton had a "relation­ship." though Johnson wouldn't elaborate or say how the girl, who attended a different school. knew the older man. 
The investigator would only describe Shelton as a known acquaintance of Ashley and say that Shelton was with investiga­tors early Saturday when they finally found her in a desolate area of Citizens Park in the St. Louis suburb of Belleville, Ill. She had been missing since leaving her home Thursday afternoon for a job interview; the Jeep she was driving was found eight hours later in another park in the area. 
Shelton was a driver's ed teacher by day in tiny Freeburg, Ill., and a pro wrestler and country line dancer by night, authorities said. 
No phone listing could be found for him in Smithton, Ill., listed as his home. He has declined a public defender and indicated he would hire his own attorney, though there was none of record as of Tuesday, a St. Clair County Circuit Court clerk said. His arraignment could come later this week, authorities said. 
Johnson suggested that it might be difficult to determine what led the man to strangle Ashley with a belt and, accord­ing to the criminal complaint, use "his forearm with such force as to break the neck." 
"With any human being, there's a lot to anyone. You can never predict human nature," Johnson said. When it comes to scouring Shelton's background, "we're definitely looking into it." 
Ashley's family has declined to comment. No further infor­mation about her injuries or chances for recovery has been released. 
Johnson said he hopes the details of what happened to the girl and why surface more quickly than the long and frus­trating search to find her. 
Teams with dogs and in heli­copters had searched for hours but couldn't locate the girl, and even before Johnson and other searchers entered Citizen's Park with Shelton in tow, Johnson said, "we all believed she was deceased." 
Politician accused of racism 
U.S. Justice Department alleged Ike Brown discriminated against whites 
Associated Press 

MACON, Miss.-Ike Brown is a legend in Mississippi poli­tics, a fast-talking operative both loved and hated for his ability to turn out black voters and get his candidates into office. 
That success has also landed him at the heart of a federal lawsuit that's about to turn the Voting Rights Act on its end. 
For the first time, the U.S. Justice Department is using the 1965 law to allege racial discrimination against whites. 
Brown, head of the Democratic Party in Mississippi's rural Noxubee County, is accused of waging a campaign to defeat white vot­ers and candidates with tactics including intimidation and coercion. Also named in the lawsuit is Circuit Clerk Carl Mickens, who has agreed to refrain from rejecting white voters' absentee ballots con­sidered defective while accept­ing similar ballots from black voters. 
Brown shakes off the allega­tions. 
"They've bee_n trying to tar­get me for years, the attorney general and all them, because we're so successful," the 52­year-old says. "Hey, if you're a failure, nobody will mess with you. But we're successful in east Mississippi." 
The Justice Department complaint says Brown and those working with him "par­ticipated in numerous racial appeals during primary and general campaigns and have criticized black citizens for supporting white candidates and for forming biracial politi­cal coalitions with white can­didates." 
Noxubee County -a rural area along the Alabama line named for a Choctaw word meaning "stinking water" ­has a population of 12,500, 69 percent black and 30 percent white. 
Whites once dominated county politics here, but now only one white person holds countywide office, and he says Brown tried to recruit an out­of-county black candidate to run against him three years ago. 

The federal case against Brown, scheduled for trial this fall, represents a change in direction in the use of the Voting Rights Act, says Jon Greenbaum, director of the voting rights project for the Washington-based Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law. 
The law was written to pro­tect racial minorities in the 1960s when Mississippi and other Southern states strictly enforced segregation. 
"The main concern we have in the civil rights community isn't necessarily that that DOJ brought this case," Greenbaum says. "It's that the department is not bringing meritorious cases on behalf of African-American and Native American voters." 
Justice Department records show the department's last voting-rights case alleging dis­crimination against black vot­ers was filed in 2001. Since then, six cases have been brought on behalf of voters of Hispanic or Asian descent in five states -plus the case involving white voters in Mississippi. 
Justice Department spokesman Eric Holland would not comment on the 
case. but provided stacks of documents, including the con­sent decree signed by Mickens, Noxubee County's chief elections officer. 
Brown, a former tax prepar­er, served 21 months in prison in the 1990s on a felony con­viction of preparing fraudulent federal income-tax returns. He retained his right to vote. The same federal judge who han­dled his earlier trial is now overseeing the Justice Department case. 
"This case is real simple," Brown says, stretching back in a maroon chair during an interview in Mickens' office, where voter-registration records are kept. "Find me one white person that was dis­criminated against." 
The main white person who makes the claim is Ricky Walker, the county prosecuting attorney who believes Brown recruited an opponent for him simply because he's white, an action Walker called "racist." 
Walker says that when he qualified to run again in 2003, Brown brought in a black lawyer from another part of the state to run against him. A circuit judge found that the lawyer, Winston James Thompson III, had not estab­lished residency, and Thompson was not allowed on the ballot. 
"I think he just wanted to have a person in that office that he had some control over, a black person," Walker says. 
Brown, chairman of the Noxubee County Democratic Party since 2000, says Thompson recruited himself. 
Brown's defense attorney, prominent black Republican Wilbur Colom, disagrees with Brown's political views but defends his right to speak. 
"I think Ike does play race politics," Colom says. "He is a black political leader who fights the fight like we were still in the 1970s. He doesn't recognize the progress that we have made." 
But Colom criticizes the Justice Department for filing a complaint against a black political consultant while ignoring similar behavior by white political operatives in Mississippi. 
"It has overtones of politics and that's the wrong road for Civil Hights Division of tho Justice Department," the attorney says. "It's going to destroy their credibility the next time they ask black peo­ple to listen to them." 

Tl··lE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, May 3, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Copyright and its discontents 
PO. Hox 779, Notr< Dame, IN 465% 024 South Dining H•ll. Notre Dam<, IN 46SS6 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Gilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Iianna Paula Garcia 
Ass·1: MANAGING EDITOR: Rama GottumukkaJa A~s·1: MANAGING EmToR: Robert Gri HI n 
Nt.ws EIJITORS: Amanda Michaels Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANA<.am: Sharon Brown 
An DF.~IGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEll ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Alejandro Gcrbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
('i74) 63l-4'i42 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6.31-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-'i313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
('i74) 631-5303 viewpoint. 1 @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 6.31-454.3 spons.l@nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
('i74) 6.31-4540 scenc.1@nd.cdu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK smc I @nd.edu PHOTO DESK 
(574) 6.~ 1-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
Thr Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the studcnrs ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lie and Saint Mary's Collcg<·. Editorial contt'll!, including advcrriscmcms. is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The ( )bst•rver reserves rhe right to refi.tse adverrisemems b:Licd on comcnt. 
Tlu· news is reported as accurately and objectively as possibk·. Unsign<·d editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chid: Managing Editor, Ao;sistant Managing Editor> and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rh<· authors and not necessarily those of"l 'he ( >bscrvt·r. 
Vit'Wpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lertcrs is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions "?;arding Obsm1rr policies shot~ld be di~ctd to Editor in ChiifMike Gilwon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Olwrwr (USPS 599 l-4000) ll published Monday through Friday CX«'J'l during cum .111d v.n:anon p.:riods. A ,uhlcnpnon IQ The Observer iJ S 100 for one ac.1demk yt:afi SSS fm one semester. 
The Oh5ct\'Cr i' published .u. POSTMASTER 
OH Sourll Oiniug llall Send address correaion1 to: 
N1)tre O.une, IN 4M56.0779 The Observer 
Pcriodi..:al po,\u.gc pa1(l ,u Nocrt [);anK P.O. Box 779 ~tnd ;l(ldhi•ltul mo~iling .)tna;,;. Ol:4 South Dming llall 
Notre Dame, IN 46'i')6-0779 
111c Ob..et.,.t<t as il member nf 1~ AMII:K.I.IIetl PI'O$. All rcpr,kJuuum ti~.hu arc tc:trrvcd. 

I am rather embarrassed to admit it, but there is almost nothing in the world that I love so much as words. In the art and sdcnee of' writing, when everything falls into place there ean be found ful­fillment, spirituality, self-actualization and truth. It is a light that comes and goes -because I am as adept at writing garbage as anyone. But when words willingly flow I won­der whether or not humans themselves are just living words, and I think I under­stand what Genesis means when it says that the universe was spoken into being. 
We are born to be creators -to shape the world and to call into being unimagined ideas. To be human is to be a creator, and vice-versa. It is l'or this reason that I, and many others, enshrine the freedom of expression above all other essential forms of good. After all, if you take away any other freedom it destroys a person's dignity or potential for fulfillment, but to take away the freedom to create is to crush a person's essential nature. 
If you can understand the way that I feel about words -though perhaps in your particular case you understand through art, musie or science-then you should have no trouble under­standing my attitudes toward copyright in general. It does not take more than a touch of classical libertarianism to smell something rotten about the cur­rent copyright regime. The truth is, international copyright law is so stag­geringly broken that I only have spaee here to address a single aspect that I find most troubling. 
For the duration of a copyright, typi­cally more than a eentury, it is forbid-

Lance Gallop 
Tidewater Blues 

den by law for anyone to create and 
disseminate any work which is in any 
way derived from existing copyrighted 
material, without regard to the social 
value of such a derivative work. Only 
parody -which is very narrowly 
defined-is exempt. Contrary to pop­
ular belief satire is not protected in 
any way. Some may remember "The 
Wind Done Gone," and the JibJab.eom 
political parody of "This Land is My 
Land," both of which nearly were con­
signed to oblivion by the estates of 
their creators. 
It is troubling to think that there may exist many more works, and potential works, of great merit that will never see the light of day because of this "right" to censor another's work that has been granted to authors in the name of protection. 
Copyright, as written in the Constitution, is a limited restriction with a specific purpose. It was created as a temporary protection to encour­age authors to contribute their works to society. Today copyright has mutat­ed into a form of intellectual entitle­ment. The term "intellectual proper­ty," a form of Orwellian doublespeak, is used to promote the notion that ideas can have owners and that thesn owners control both what they have made and anything similar created by anyone else. 
You are a criminal if you adapt an author's ideas in your own way and share them with your friends. You are a felon if you explon~ an author's plots in forms that she did not envision, or if you pen unauthorized satire or soda[ commentary in her words. Copyright has granted authors exclusive and unquestioned authority to determine what their works will mean for us, and to censor any form of reinterpretation that they do not approve of. We cannot make anything else of these ideas until copyright holders (and probably we as well) are long dead. 
This situation is patently unconstitu­tional, because it amounts to the fed­eral government granting a writ authorizing a person to censor anoth­er's ideas and the right to enforce a single interpretation of a creative work-"Gone with the Wind" versus the "Wind Done Gone"-as the only acceptable version. This has a long­term damaging impact on the natural spread and reinterprotation of ideas that is essential for the functioning of' a free society, and it depresses the expression of' the essential nature of humans as creators. 
Fortunately there are ways to fight this problem and to risn up as sup­porters of' the free exchange of' ideas. If' you visit my Web site, you will find a copy of' this article and many others that l have written. All of' these have been perpetually released under a Creative Commons Licnns1~. This means that you can copy them, you can distribute them, you can perform them and you can create new works based upon them. You may use them to mock me, to praise me. to promote things that I agree with or to promote things for which I have the deepest dis­gust. The freedom is yours. 
I strongly encourage other colum­nists for The Observer, other writers and indeed this entire newspaper to release their copyrights under similar terms. Freedom of' expression and of' adaptation is a human right, a civic virtue and thn mark of' a great univer­sity. We must commit oursnlves to the preservation of this virtue. 
Lance Gallop is a 2005 graduate of the University ofNotre Dame. lie can be contacted at comments@tidewa­terblum>. com. !'lease visit his Creative Commons archive at www.tidewa­terblues. com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Yearbook oversight disappoints team 
I am writing a letter in light of the recent publication of the 2006 "Dome" yearbook. As a member of the men's cross country team, I feel I can speak for my teammates as well as the entire women's cross country team in say­ing how extremely disappointed I am that the yearbook staff forgot to include us in this year's publication. 
Now I know that most likely the only people who noticed this oversight are the members of each respective team. Some might even be thinking, "we have a cross country team?" Things like that I'm fine with. After all, those that run cross country have never been into the sport for the glitz and glamour nor fame and fortune. These perks are reserved for other sports. But what I'm not 11ne with is the lack of including the men's and women's cross country teams in the yearbook-especial­ly when the yearbook is supposed to recognize all the accomplishments and great moments that have happened in the past year at Our Lady's University. Both teams have been responsible for some great achievements for the University. Along with the Big East Championships on both ends, the men placed third and the women seventh at the NCAA Championships. Each team also had three All-Americans. On top of that, the men's team currently has the highest point total (S5) of' any other team at Notre Dame this year for the NACDA Oireetors' Cup (for­
merly the Sears Cup-an annual award that goes to the best all-around college sports program in each division). 
As a sport that rarely gets recognized, the "Dome" yearbook is one of the few things we can count on for being honored. But it's not even the recognition we are yearning for. What we really want is to have this year­book and be able to turn to our section in the future and appreciate the time we spent at Notre Dame. Unfortunately the "Dome" yearbook has forever deprived us of this ability. 
So I ask Editor-in-Chief Moira Madden and Sports Editor Mike Kim simply, how did this oversight occur? Every year in the past the yearbook has managed to include a section for both men's and women's cross coun­try. I hope as a staff you have learned from this mistake and will ensure that it never happens again to anyone. 
A.]. Andrassy senior Off-Campus May 2 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Amanda Michaels Kate Gales Kaitlynn Hiely Kyle Cassily Do you agree with ClAP's · ~aureen Mullen Joe Quinn proposal to raise the hourly Viewpoint Scene wage for campus workers to Laura Sonn Tae Andrews 
$12.10 per hour? 

Graphics Graham Ebetsch Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'I"S b· .. · .. L· I 
"The ancient Greek dc~fi.nition of

t umlta. etter 
happiness was the full use of1 your powers along lines ofexcellence. "
to the Edttor at 1 
John F. Kennedy Former U.S. president

\\JWW.ndsmcobserver.com I 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, May 3, 2006 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Common Proposal' must be followed 
Catholic conscience and war 
In an April 26 Viewpoint article, Clare Feeney wrote on the decision of Notre Dame Catholic Peace Fellowship (NDPF) to refrain from protest­ing this year's ROTC Pass in Review. Instead, Feeney offered a forum for dialogue between with ROTC proposed for next year. Already, NDPF has worked with ROTC in past semesters to host several of the thought provoking dialogue sessions. 
However, I think many aspects of the article regarding ROTC need to be clarified, and many other questions need to be asked. 
First off, NDPF does not seek to "alienate" or "offend" any members of the ROTC program. In years past, the protests may have unfortunately caused offense, but this was never their intent. While wishing to question the appropriateness of ROTC on our campus, we never argue that the stu­dents enrolled in ROTC are bad people. That must be understood. 
Secondly, the Catholic view of warfare has two responses -either "just war" or total non-vio­lence. Participating in any war the U.S. government dictates does not coincide with the Catholic principles of either view. Indeed, the approach of "just war" (the most popular among Catholics in America) is actually illegal when in military service. If you do not declare yourself a pacifist, you are required to fight in any and all wars as a soldier. This is the current system in place -one endorsed by the HOTC program. 
Members of ROTC have little say in where they go upon graduation, as military contracts (bind­ing for most ROTC students after their freshman year) leave the deciding up to military command. But what if. like the majority of our military, they end up in Iraq? Will they participate, with the training given to them on our campus, in a con­flict condemned by the Catholic Church? Or will they refuse to be an instrument of an unjust 
------------------------------------------~---­
war? 

Many argue that it is far better to have soldiers trained at Notre Dame, where they will receive some type of philosophy and theology before graduation. But, with the ROTC curriculum stan­dardized by the Department of Defense, can the ideas of just war and Catholic thought be required in the ROTC curriculum? If not, are we truly giving soldiers every tool they will need to face the hard questions of conscience that they 
will inevitably face? Will a soldier trained at Notre Dame be any less likely to partake in unjust war because of the education we have provided them? 
Finally, it is no secret at many students in TC enlist in the pro-
to pay for their col­education. The schol­ps offered are 
pting and the govern­provides stipends health care coverage most ROTC members. 
ut, with an endowment 
vering around three ,,...uuvu dollars, can we not 1i!r•.-.-..,irlo another option 
ese students? arships must be ere­to ensure all that to attend Notre 
have the funds nec­
essary. However, that is an issue -like many others dealing with ROTC on our campus-that the Notre Dame adminis­tration has yet to address. 
In writing this article, I hope that all members of the Notre Dame community begin to think about our identity as a Catholic university and the presence of ROTC. I hope that you will be part of the dialogues that will take place next semester. I challenge you to think about the hard issues of conscience posed by the Catholic teach­ing on war. Now, more than ever, we need to be thinking about the issues of war and peace. 
Michael Angulo freshman Alumni Hall May2 
Senior proud of Jenkins 
In regards to University President Father John Jenkins' closing statement, I would like to applaud our President's courage for tackling such a controversial issue in his first year. Certainly, such actions could be deemed as political suicide but great visionaries bur­den themselves with audacious goals. 
I am sill gripped by a state of ambivalence on the issue. I have read the opinions of both supporters and detractors in the viewpoints; likewise, I've dialogued with members of the administration, faculty, alumni and fellow students. Often, Notre Dame is considered "too Catholic" by academics in the intellectual com­munity -a bastion of community, courage and com­mitment. It is my impression that Jenkins' course of action will not change that impression. 
As one administration official explained to me, "Notre Dame's BHAG (Big Hairy Audacious Goal) is to be an elite academic institution while maintaining the core values of the Catholic Church." Initially, I thought that Jenkins was submitting to political pressure for fear of being perceived as unpopular. However, I now believe that Jenkins' statement was driven by a "bend but not break" mentality. In considering the life of President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh, many did not always consider his progressive outlook to be exactly aligned with the Catholic Church. Nevertheless, history proved his detractors wrong, and Notre Dame was both empowered and blessed to have had such an extraordinary leader at the helm for over three decades. 
As Thomas Aquinas once said, "virtue lies in the middle." I am not implying that Jenkins compromised the integrity of the Catholic Church and sold out to the secular crowds. Being a devout child and, more importantly, leader of the Catholic Church does not always entail acquiescing to the status quo. Rather, it involves seeking and challenging the greater truths of the present, and consequently shaping a better path for the future. Those who advocate the position that Jenkins is playing a dangerous game on a slippery slope have their warranted concerns. As for me, I con­sider it an honor to graduate in the first class under the administration of Jenkins. 
Matt Somma 
senior 
Off-Campus May 1 
I was very heartened by University President Father John Jenkins' Jan. 23 address to the faculty on academic freedom and the Catholic character of Notre Dame, and while disappointed by his "Closing Statement" in which I thought he took a large step back, I finally concluded that if presentations counter to Catholic belief on campus were balanced by explanations of Catholic tradition (see quote from the "Common Proposal" that accompanied the "Closing Statement"), then such events might indeed have some value. 
These explanations of Catholic truths would provide students and fac­ulty ignorant of them insights and information they might not otherwise receive given the large number of non-Catholic faculty, the deplorable state of Catholic religious preparation of so many entering students and the very limited and inadequate instruc­tion in theology and philosophy cur­rently provided to undergraduates at Notre Dame. (As to the preparation of the faculty in Catholic teachings, I leave that to the Administration, and some there have expressed concerns on this point.) Having now followed the reports and statements in The Observer and elsewhere for several months, I fear that my initial optimism was badly misplaced. 
Readers may recall that in his clos­ing statement Jenkins, wrote: "As long as the Gospel message and the Catholic intellectual tradition are appropriately represented, we can welcome any serious debate on any thoughtful position here at Notre Dame." 
He continued, "The only exception I can imagine would come in the case of expression that is overt and insistent in its contempt for the values and sen­sibilities of this University, or of any of the diverse groups that form part of our community. This sort of expression is not at issue in the current debate, nor do I expect it to be an issue in the future." 
Finally, he noted, "Thanks to the efforts of some faculty members, this year's performance of "The Vagina Monologues" was brought into dia­logue with Catholic tradition through panels which followed each perform­ance. Panelists presented the Catholic teaching on human sexuality, and stu­dents and faculty engaged one another and these issues in serious and informed discussion." 
I am troubled by these statements of Jenkins on two counts. First, I believe a fairly large segment of the "commu­nity," particularly if that includes graduates, indeed did find "The Vagina Monologues" to be "overt and insistent in its contempt for [their] values and sensibilities." Jenkins' assertion that the play was not at issue with the val­ues and sensibilities of a very large part of the community simply mystifies me. Rather than to simply assert this, it would have been useful had he explained how he arrived at this con­clusion, and I hereby invite him to do so publicly. 
Second, I have seen practically noth­ing in The Observer or elsewhere on how the panels that followed presenta­tion of "The Vagina Monologues" appropriately presented Catholic tradi­tion as called for in Jenkins' closing statement. Indeed, with the exception of Fr. Paulinus Odozor's comments at the panel on the evening of Feb. 14, the other panel participants were quite supportive of the presentation and dis­missive of Catholic tradition and teach­ing as set forth in the statements of Bishop D'Arcy, Frs. Bill Miscamble and John Coughlin, David Solomon and many others who have commented on the play. 
I have not changed my mind about the opportunities for education and enlightenment of students and faculty that presentation of materials counter to Catholicism might offer. However, Jenkins needs to step forward now and ensure that the tenants of the "Common Proposal" are adhered to fully and, if they are not, to take 
appropriate action. 
Given the statements of professors Robin Darling Young, Cathleen Kaveny, Jackie Smith, Carolyn Nordstrom, Mary Doak, Jean Porter and Mary Rose D'Angelo that followed the presenta­tions of the play (as reported in The Observer), I am not at all confident that some faculty members, perhaps even a good number, plan to follow the "Common Proposal" in good faith. Five of the panelists named above are members of the Theology department and all but Odozor defended the pres­entation. How could they defend in the context of Catholic teaching this vile piece of pornography that so debases women? And how could they justify its sexual violence as serving to defend women from sexual violence? These panelists pursued their own agendas, and to them I would suggest that there are a good number of secular universi­ties that would no doubt welcome their applications, having thus so clearly demonstrated their contempt for the Catholic Church. This would also offer an opportunity to repopulate the Theology department with theologians who believe in and defend the faith. 
William A. Sigler alumnus Class of 1958 April 24 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, May 3, 2006 
=========================================================================== 
tJ ~~ 1~! E::< 
STORIES BY RAM A 

MAY MAY M.AY MA"Y.MAYMAY rv 
Mission: Impossible Ill (May 5) ._P/C, (. · , .... 'b'--< The OaVincl Code (May 19) 
The plot: Secret agent extraordinaire, Ethan Hunt (Tom Cruise} returns Tbe plot.: Based on the best-selling 
n for more highly improbable antics in the. thiid installment of l;he franchise. lows a murder investi~&,ttbn Mter a ruthless arms dealer (Philip St~yritotir HuffutanTthrc:taten.'l Hunt's 'gist Robert Langdon _(1'om Hanks) is c girlfriend, Hunt must assemble his old crew, includin 'er Strickell fVing hidden inside tho wofks rif famed artist Rhames) in order to take down his most4anj~rous"'(m .. totl\te. closer to finding tb'e truth,· Langdon th 
The buzz: Cruise has proven himself as'Hunt, but\will Pqi}ip Seymour gious secret. · Hoffman be a convincing bad guy? Despite his ~~nt <Yscar win for The buzz: No ono doubts Hanks' "Capote," Seymour Hoffman is still remem.l;lered qy,IPa~y for hls goofy role Hanks may face his topghest challenge , in "Along Carne Polly." As always, Ving Rhames sbouldpe .solid, but is this wig. Dan Brown's immensely engagi the right cast to breathe new life into the se:ri'es?.. · .. · . Audrey Tti.utou, Ian MeKellen and P 
The bottom Jine!jWhere the first "Mission: Impossible" confused audi· The -bottom li41oe: As'• if the ences with its JauX..':intellectual spy an ties, the second insulted their intelli-weren't enough; '"The DaVinci gence wit!\, a,sbnpleton plot line and overuse of the "fak,e face" mask trick. .qirC-lctor Hon Howard. All· the While a slfflk preview trailer seems to promise!B;P~notch expJosions, will behind "A ~autiful Mind~ and "Cirr$Ail M:l 3 find a happy medium between its predee~~rs. or is if Just a "three-with Hanks (their pasf work iQgether i quel" cash cow'? · · ;;.;;;(/ ·· sound effort. 
J UN EJ UN E.J U.N,EJ U 
Cars (June 9) .. ···. . , · · ,~, ': -~ 
The plot: In a world populated by cars that steer themselves, rookie race ·Cir Lightning McQueen (voiced by Q:wen Wilson) has the cocky swagger to comp~­v\ihere was ment his stylish exterior. Jfut en'route to a big race, McQueen gets sidetracked ill ed hom·~ from rural Radiator Spriijg$; forcing him to take an introspective pit stop amongst the !JeekS tQ bocome ll·IIJ.,l;~Wl.l~~.~~ counsel ~f the to:~oik · , .. , . . .· . · J&urnament to grab.an:.w·v-.mrltlK 
The bu7.z: J\s,~~s first thptrical el:r~ sfuce.mergmgwith Disney in a $7.4 '' The buzz.: T.be direCtor billion CQ,ijfl,•: :Gars" has a lot oftorque ridingdtnVI\ on it.'> tires. But if..E'Jxar inan~ ~fin belrinrl the camera of 4'5" ages to keefr'~>l1J?.R~ ·· (mted string. of animated b~oekbusters lilive. the C01Jl• goinbination of I{ess' l\.nack ,!or uncon pany will continue tO t · , the road to·a,pimation immor1afity pavep by.the leg-wr~g spande~would setffn tO be a endary Walt Disney dec · , . . .· . '·> .:• · .... Tite. boftom.li.Ae: The filJn appears 
The bottom line: "C !l$,Shi.t'ted back sbt;'mon~.J;rom its original hlol\~ll_U$ters, but if "N~oleon Dyn November 2005 release dal:(S'' ...J~~gh, time to raise 1f'· · ·ws. from cynics. abifi:ties, "Naeho Libre" ;:fould/ very well Fortunately, Pixar wunderkind John Lit··'· . ...~bind the 1for field this summer. While Jack Black the first time since "Toy Story 2," reason enou to1jve the Pixar faith ope for have al\·Opportnni~o showcase his critical appeal and box office bullion. "Na.cl~·.!~·· pr9)ll.ises to ~-1 hue 
JULYJ U LYJ ULYJ ULYJ.. ULYJ U 
Pirates of the Caribbean 2: Dead Man't:t CJlest (July 7) Lady In the Water (July 21) 
The plot: The second installment i · · ates franchise follows Captain The_ plot: The newest Jack Sparrow as he repays a blo~: e ghostly Davey Jones and his Paul Giamlltti as an ap<~.~-:bmotley crew of sea mqJ;tste,rs. J\JJ th cast favorites, plus some new . thinks is a young · .. ·· ·· · · additions, return to cavort arollt1d . ean in another swashbuckling <plttt'"M his film closely guardqd, adventure on the high seas. · 
twis~ .•·
Th" buzz: D.~Ofy's plan to §hopt t s bacl\-to-back indicates a clear 'f,li~,buzz: After his last movie, '~!fhe vision ~~h~~tagy for t~ se(., ~.. a f~ood ~gn for·~"Pjrates" fp.~ In ;the b6x office, Shyamalan switched 
•4diti9i!t.Aift}ctGr gore \(ci' · ·· J,"igin~l"Pirates" writers retdrn. ,: Bidtbers. Fans are cautiously n~timict wf;lich"p~~~ that .this bl aintam'the distinct style M 'the ment of "Lady in the Water" will restore tir'st. . ' . . . ·,·, <>:. ;· The bottom line: With a lead actor like 
.The bottom line: The huge popu '.· !>fthe frrst film and a massive mar­well acted and will accordingly receive keting campaign will ensure that t!¥§< a:.... ··. akes hundreds of millions at the whole turns vut to be good or bad, it
-.­

box office, but the talent of Johnny t5 -· Gore Verbinski is what promises thanks to the hype and rn.,yptery that to make "Pirates of the Caribbean 2" we· ..· ·• rth the price of admission. movies. 
I}..UG USTAUG USTAUG U S18 
World Trade Center (AfJgust 11) Siiakes on a Plane < ·· st 18} The plot: "World Trade Center" takes pla:~.e.,.P'!v~,.tmmedia~e aft.er)llath of .• ,he plot: It's sn on a pi 
the Sept. 11, 2001 dis.aster i.ll"'N~w-York: 1t tells th~.trut:i story of John assassin trying to eone in 
McLoughlin and William J. J..bn:eh6, ~ho were the last ~o sur~ivonr pulled snakes in the plane. lie Flynn . 
from the rubble of Ground-Zer~.;~,; .· ,. . ·,,;;· · ... . ;mayhem that ensues.:.,. 
The buzz: Boasting a cast'tti~t inCludes Nicholas Cage, l\arf~fBello and ' the buzz: A eult'following has sprung Maggie Gyllenhaal, with Olivett, · ne as its director, "World ~e Center" has t.ew could have predicted. The name of gained a fair amount of buz e recent release of th~··c · y-acclaimed ..changed to "Pacific Air Flight 121;" but "United 93" could prove to1 era plus or a minus'Jo m. On one ~ne" after an outcry from fans on the hand, its acceptance prove.~ rnerica is ready for a·~· • , Sept. 11. the seript on the basis of the title alone. On the other hand, it coulfl , interest of audiences)~ll~~) ~ a much have more nudity, profanity and snakes later release date. :>. ··.-· · The bottom line: "Snakes on a Plane" 
The bottom line: If "W1 · lives up to t~ntial of its cast ~ovie-marketing tool. Prodv~n listenod and director, it could eas· as "Uni . 9~/'lfnot. it could lffig the people what they want-and just as easily be forgottep,; of this summer'$ heavily competitive be a good movie in the OScar-worthy movie season. entertaining good time. 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, May 3, 2006 
page 13 

I ) !: /1 -'"" I; /I Vr.
t

.r Cr1 I I;IJ j} \ .c 
scorcher of a season 
GRIFFIN, TAE ANDREWS & SEAN SWEANY 
!i
i 7\, 
~ Brown novel, "J:he D~VincitCod~r fol-, re museum in'Paris. Harv.I}J:''d symb'!lloi led in to follow a trail of~yptic c.Wes .eonardo DaVInci. 4s h~tgets'(;lostif and to unearth a ,.e'tmturies:.91a reli­
as an a~r. but the tfiin~~g-ha!re<) 
in pulli!lg off weari~gkl~ comb-o~.f't provtdes p[ot twil%t'S''galore, ..and round out a stropg cas't\ i'' 
· . · of Hanks and ~Rellen 
-=xronra in the very capable;:,ha<qds of giant (and Oscar-winni,qg din)'c!or) Man." Howard's latest c · es the film "Apollo 13"} 
-
Wednesday, May 3, 2006 page 14 

By BRIAN DOXTADER and ERIN 
McGINN 
Scent• Critics 

Paul Grnengrass' "United 93" is not a lot of things. It is not a film that tries to answnr tough, ever-lingering questions. It is not a film that tries to explain the seope of the events of Sept. 11, 2001. It is not a film that tries to examine the bigger picture. 
Yet these traits (or lack thereof) make it a stronger and better pieture, and makn its impact and conviction res­onatn that rnueh more. 
What "United 93" does accomplish is pulling thn audience in a front-row seat to watch the events unfold. Critics and detractors have asked why this is being donn now -everyone saw the events unfold in great detail on every televi­sion across the country (if not immedi­ematography (a particularly modern and stylish approach) certainly evokes the "you-are-there" feeling that the filmmakers obviously wanted, but it also makes some of the events confus­ing and sometimes difficult to follow. 


Greengrass' methodology and obvious respect for the material is a good lit ­his reverent, powerful "Bloody Sunday" was sharp and insightful, and "The Bourne Supremacy" was a slick, well made Hollywood blockbuster. "United 93" falls somewhere in between, cast­ing a professional Hollywood sheen over the serious and socially aware subject matter. 
An accomplished director, Greengrass' ability to veer from politi­cally charged drama to spy thrillers meshes well with the inevitable emo­tional undercurrent that surrounds "United 93." At once sympathetically passionate and coolly and objectively 
all~ly, llwn soon after). ation, which shock the post-9/11 view­
llowever, one of the movie's great ers. When Ben Sliney, head of air traffic strnngths is that it removes (rather than control (9/11 was his first day on the adds to) the gloss of reporting that net­job) first gets word that a plane might works like CNN and FOX news create. have been hijacked, the other officials The audienee is there -on the plane, at the meeting make light of the situa­in the aircraft control rooms, in the mil­tion ("Wow, a hijacking, we haven't had itary centers -seeing the confusion, one of those in what? 20 years?") ­frustration and emotion of everyone another element which is shocking to involved. viewers today. 
The plot follows the real people The overall confusion is also high­involved in these events, both on the lighted in stark detail. No one is able to ground and in the air. In fact, many of efficiently communicate with anyone the air eontrol personnel, such as Ben else, which makes the tragedy resonate Sliney, and military officers, such as powerfully since the audience knows Major James Fox, actually portray how it all ultimately ends. The air traf­themselves in the Iilm. fic controllers have trouble convincing 
(;reengrass also received permission the military about the situation, the mil­from the family members of the United itary in turn cannot communicate with 93 victims and the FAA or with thoroughly a member of the
United 93
researched each executive person on the branch. The flight. Greengrass' military, in fact, 
'····>:'

typical use of a was not even stripped-down, Director: Paul Greengrass aware of the faux-documentary Writers: Paul Greengrass whole situation cinematics Starring: Kate Jennings Grant, Opal Alladin, until they assuage the usual Liza Colon-Zayas, and Omar Berdouni watched the llollywood gloss first plane on and allows the CNN. audience to connect more easily with There are several moments in which the on-screen action. both the air traffic control and military "United 93" is basically a minute-by­personnel were completely clueless ­minute account of everything that hap­when the World Trade Center went up pened on the ground as well as what in flames, it did not dawn on them that happened on the flight itself. One of the it was one of the commercial flights hardest things about this movie is that were suspected hijackings. The remembering what it was like before film emphasizes the system-wide fail­that day. There are scenes of question­ure, leaving the audience to wonder if able airport security and general relax-tragedy could have been averted had 
just one piece of the chain worked professional, the lilm walks a tightrope properly. of balancing truth, entertainment, 
While all of this ground activity is respect and understanding. "United 93" going on, the passengers on United 93 does it all, if not perfectly, then very remain unaware, until one of the ter­well. rorists gets anxious and jumps the gun. Ultimately, "United 93" is a straight­Instead of waiting until they were clos­forward, stripped down retelling of the er to DC, the terrorists took over the momentous events which occurred on plane too early -they then quickly Sept. 11. The love and care that went realized they had to be able to hold into making the picture is obvious everyone in control for two hours through the striking amount of detail instead of 30 minutes. and research -though there is obvi­
Eventually some of the passengers ously some artistic license, Greengrass take the risk to call their families -understands that the event itself was upon learning about the towers, they riveting enough without bogging the realize that they are part of the terror­film down with melodrama. ist plot and decide that to take action One of the big questions surrounding against the hijackers who hav taken the film is its timeliness -is it too control of their plane. soon? Is five years enough time? 
While it is hard not to sympathize Arguments have been made that a half­with the members of decade simply isn't the plane, Greengrass enough time because
Greengrass knows we
does not really give a we still remember.
remember. Greengrass knows 
portrait of who these But such an argu­people are/were. we'll always remember. But ment is missing the Instead, the passen­point. Greengrass
what he really wants to do, 
gers on the plane are knows we remem­
and what the detractors of
mostly nameless -ber. Greengrass the audience feels "United 93 "fail to see, is knows we'll always their emotions as they remember. But what
that he doesn't want us to 
go through this trau­he really wants to
remember.
matic experience, but do, and what the do not get to know any He wants us to never forget. detractors of "United of them as individuals. 93" fail to see, is This anonymity is a that he doesn't want little troubling, since the film is ostensi­us to remember. bly about people -without the connec­He wants us to never forget. tion to the characters, the emotional power of the denouement is diminished, Contact Brian Doxtader at albeit only slightly. bdoxtade@nd.edu and Erin McGinn at 
The "cinema veritae" editing and cin-emcginn@nd.edu 


--------------------------------------~-----~--­
Wednesday, May 3, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
DANIEL AUTEUIL 
(HIDDEN) 

A PSYCHOLOGICAL THRILLER THAT ALSO SERVES AS A POWERFUL COM· MENTARY ON THE URBAN PARANOIA AND RACISM THAT CONnNUE TO PERMEATE MODERN SOCIETY. 
THURS. MAY 4 AT 7 AND 10 PM FRI. MAY 5 AT 7 AND 10 PM 
RATED R; IN FRENCH WITH ENGLISH SUBTITLES 
I A FILM BY 

MICHAEL HANEKE 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, May 3, 2006 
NBA PLAYOFFS 

Bryant ejected as Suns stay alive against Lakers 
Spurs ride late run to go up 3-2 on Sacramento; Wade scores 28 as Miami wins; Carter leads Nets over Pacers 
Associated Press still has a ehanee to pull olr the painkilling shot he took. "It upset, but it won't be nasy. The started kieking in after a eouple 
PHOENIX -The NBA's most Kings must win Friday night at minutes out there and I felt improved player kept the home to foree a Game 7 in San good after that." Phoenix Suns alive in the play­Antonio on Sunday. Wade didn't expect to be able offs, and Kobe Bryant wasn't Ginobili, coming ofT a three­to play more than a couple of 1wnn around to sen the finish. point, four-shot performance in minutes after the shot, even 
Boris l>iaw -presented with Game 4 when Artost constantly telling some teammates his tho most-improved trophy kept him out of his rhythm, led return would be brief. He didn't beforn the game -had 25 the Spurs with 27 points, nine eome out, though, until the points, I 0 rebounds and nine rebounds and four assists. lie game was decided. assists, and the Suns rolled to a scored 1:~ points in the final "lie's our guy," lleat forward I 14-1)7 victory over Bryant and quarter, including six straight James Posey said. "For him to tho Los Angnles Lakers on frnn throws. come back out here and tough it Tuesday night Dunean had 24 points, nine out ... he knew how important 
Tho I.akors still lead the best­rebounds and five assists. this game was to us." of-seven snries 3-2 with Game 6 Parker added 21 points and Antoine Walker scored 17 Thursday night in Los Angeles. defensive specialist Bruce points and O'Neal, playing one 
Bryant, who scon~d 29 points, Bowon seored 16. day after he became a father for was thrown out after drawing Wells scored 3H, ineluding the sixth time, added 16 points his sneond tnehnieal foul with half' of Sacramento's first 56 and 1 0 rebounds for the Heat, :u I to play. llis nemnsis in the points. Once he cooIf~ d off, who ean close the series out in serios, Haja Bell, was tossed Artest got going, scoring 14 of Chicago when Game 6 is played after throwing Bryant to the his 24 points in the final period. Thursday night. floor for his seeond teehnieal Wells made a 3-pointer that "A must-win for us," Bulls with 7::n left. tied it at 91 with 3:36 to go, but center Michael Sweetney said. 
The two had been railed for a the Spurs went right back on "We've got to come out ready to doubln-technieal in the seeond thf1 attack, starting with a layup play and play like it's our last quarter. by Ginobili. game." 
Kwamn Brown scored 14 They continued charging the If it's not, the teams return for points on 6-of-6 shooting for the rim, getting a short hook by a winner-take-all Game 7 on Lakers, but was plagued by foul Dum~an that put them ahead for Saturday night. trouble. lie started hours after good and kept it going with a "The worst thing that can Los Angeles poliee said he was finger roll by Bowen, another happen is that this thing goes to being invnstigated for a possible layup by Ginobili and another seven games and maybe we'll snxual assault. Before the basket from Duncan. have him absolutely healthy," game, Brown issued a state­lleat coach Pat Riley said, refer­ment through the team offiee Heat 92, Bulls 78 ring to Wade. "But we're plan­pointer a minute later, and the "It's not so much the type of saying he was "completely inno­Dwyane Wade raised three ning on trying to go up to Bulls were done. shot he hit, but tho importance cent of any wrongdoing." fingers skyward, the number of Chi~.ago and closing this thing of the shot," said Nets forward 
Steve Nash scored 22 points wins the Miami Heat now have out. Nets 92, Pacers 86 Richard Jefferson, who scored and Shawn Marion 21 for the in this series. Andres Nocioni had 23 points The Nets got great perform­24 points, including a clutch 3­Suns in their highest-seoring Moments later, he raised just and 10 rebounds for the Bulls, ances from all three stars, pointcr with 1:22 to go to give game of tho series. Tim Thomas one -indicating how many who managed to shoot only 35 ineluding a spectacular last­New Jersey an 87-81 lead. addnd 13 and Leandro Barbosa more the Heat need to advanee. percent. Sweetney had 16 minute, left-handed dunk by "Vince has hit some of the 
11. With his hip smarting and points and Ben Gordon added Vince Carter with the game on craziest shots in the history of Lamar Odom added 18 for the bruised from a frightening first­10 for Chieago -on 3-for-16 the line. this league," Jefferson added. Lakers. half tumble, and his team trail­shooting, only slightly worse All that, and New Jersey still "But the importance of that shot ing by five in the season's than backcourt mate Kirk barely managed to beat Indiana is what I am most proud of for Spurs 109, Kings 98 biggest game, Wade returned to Hinrieh's 3-for-13 effort. on Tuesday night, pushing the him." 
Thn San Antonio Spurs save the Heat's day -and per­"We feel like we got good Paeers to the brink of playoff Carter insisted all he was try­refused to be pushed around by haps their season -in a victory looks," Hinrich said. "I thought elimination. ing to do was put the ball in the Bonzi Wnlls and Ron Artest -over the Chicago Bulls on all my shots were going in. Carter had 34 points, 15 basket with New Jersey elinging no mattnr how many points the Tuesday night. When they don't, you get frus­rebounds and a game-clinching, to an 89-86 lead. Sacramento pair scored. "I sent word to the locker trated. We've just got to find a high-flying slam with 28 sec­"A big basket was needed," 
Tim Duncan, Manu Ginobili room," Shaquille O'Neal said, way." onds to play as the Nets beat Carter said. "If we don't make and Tony Parker helped the "that we needed him." Sweetney hit a pair of free the Pacers to take a 3-2 lead in it, it would give them the oppor­Spurs overcome a combined 62 Wade seored 28 points, 15 of throws with 4:4 7 left to draw their best-of-seven first-round tunity to tie or cut it to one. I points from Wells and Artest, them corning after a scary stint Chicago within 77-73 -but series. just wanted to be patient and going into the lane for five in Miami's training room, and Miami sealed it with a 15-0 run While he hit 13 of 24 shots, take what I could get." straight baskets down the the Heat took a 3-2 lead in the over the next four minutes. Carter's dunk over Pacers rook­Carter got a step on Granger stretch to pull out a victory Eastern Conference first-round Wade hit a 3-pointer -the ie Danny Granger is what had and brought down the house at Tuesday night for a 3-2 lead in series. play where he raised the three everyone talking after the Nets' the Continental Airlines Arena their first-round series. "A little shot in the butt," lingers to the sky -with 4:02 second straight win in the and the Pacers all in one high­
Eighth-seeded Sacramento Wade said, describing the left, Posey added another 3-series. flying swoop. 

The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 5cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr ro edir all classifieds for content wirhom issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Summer Job. Local family seeking ND ATHLETIC APPAREL. New & Office Space For Lease 1733 SF at 2 BDRM HOME.$590 M0.272-6306 nanny for 1 yr. old boy. Hours are Gently Used items. Email:sellstuff-$1000 Per Month NNN. Walking 
WANTED flexible, approx. 20 hrs/wk. bc@yahoo.com, Photosite: Distance to ND. Contact Grubb & 1bdrm apt. 1 mi to ND. PERSONAL References required. 574-271-http://pg.photos.yahoo.com/ph/sell-Ellis/Cressy & Everett, Tony Davey Laundry,security,quiet historic 0747. stuffbc/my _photos 574-271-4060. neighborhood. $600/mo. 
Highly motivated, ethical/socially UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do responsible, entrepreneurial, go-SUMMER JOBS-ENVIRONMENT Large 2br apt. near ND. Starting at Call 283-0325. not go it alone. If you or someone 
getters with desires to make a Citizens Action Coalition of Indiana $595. Call277-9372. you love needs confidential support meaningful impact on transforming is hiring individuals in South Bend 2 Houses for rent. 3 bdrm house at or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. the international business world and Indianapolis to join our environ-Area houses and apartments for Large house for rent. 18285 Dunn $900. 4 bdrm at $1200. 1 mile from Gude, esc at 631-7819. For more while making a large amount of mental campaign! With 200,000 rent. Log onto Rd. Walk to class @ ND. 4 huge ND. information, see our bi-weekly ad in $$$$. I am an alum based in members statewide, we routinely MichianaRentals.com. bedrooms, 3 full baths, Huge THE OBSERVER. Jackson Hole and am looking for battle the largest utilities And pol-fenced yard. Call317-431-9508 Call 277-1875. students for part time, full time, or luters in Indiana on behalf of citi-Call 574-993-RENT (7368) The Derbski-doo is coming. summer employment to work for zens ... and win! Work M-F 2-4 BR, 1.5 BA, fenced back yard, <2 6 bdrm/2 bth house. Partial fum. commission. Can work from home. 1 0:30pm, $375-460/wk, work out-HISTORIC HOME-CHAPIN PK. mi. to ND. 428 Preston. $795/mo. $1 000/mo + util. The Enchanted Forest of Lame is www.effectiveexecutivecoaching.co doors, travel opportunities, Casual 2800 slf+base,LR w/fp,4 269-663-2299. Call Pat 574-784·3377 11 a.m.-3:30 closed. m Atmosphere ... Serious Work. Call bdrms,study + finished 3rd fl. Full p.m. 
232-7905 or Email appliances+ WID, 3 porches. 413 4 bdrm,2.5 baths house. Call Judy David Ortiz= Clutch. SUMMER WORK $15.50 base· cac.sbend@ prodigy. net W. NAVARRE/$1250+util. 574-574-298-6217. House for rent -faculty and staff appt. FT/PT schedules,customer www.citact.org 2322167 or 574-2613184 only. 2400 SF Forest Hills. Well-TIM, WHY AREN'T YOU IN saleslservice,no experience neces-www.xog.com/property/413WestNa Room available anytime but 1st maintained, clean. <5 miles to ND. STUDIO???? sary, all ages 17 & older. conditions varre.html renter gets 1st month free. Anne 574-273-5006. apply. Call Now, Start Alter Finalsl FoR SALE $350/mo. Beautiful & very clean The Fritz Shadley Cell Phone South Bend/Elkhart 574-273-3835 Retail/Office Space For Lease 1800 home. Close to ND. Parking avail-Destruction Service-For only five Indianapolis 317-253-2734 Fort Notre Dame varsity jacket. Blue SF at $10 PSF NNN on SR 23 east able. Call Bill 574-246-0872 or cell TICKETS dollars you too can have your old Wayne 260-492-9159 Bloomington wool with gold leather sleeves and of Ironwood, Near ND. Contact 57 4-386-7272. cell phones destroyed by this 812-330·1104 Evansville 812-477-gold embroidered lettering. USA Grubb & Ellis!Cressy & Everett, I WOULD LIKE TO BUY YOUR connoisseur of stupid actions. 2702 Lafayette made by Cooper. Size medium, Noah Davey 3-6 BDRM HOMES.$195/PER FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. PLEASE 
perfect condition. $150. 269-687-PERSON MO. WALK TO ND.06/07 Kentucky Derby 765-449-41 00 9889. 574-271-4060 OR SUMMER.574-329-0308 CALL 277-1659. That's where we're going ... 
FoR RENT 


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, May 3, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BsERvr~ts WIRE SERVICES page 17 
Major League Baseball 
American League East 

team record perc . last 10 GB Boston 15·11 .577 4·6 NY Yankees 13·11 .542 6·4 1 Toronto 13·12 .520 6·4 1.5 Baltimore 14·14 .500 3·7 2 Tampa Bay 11·15 .423 3-7 4 
American League Central 

h~am record perc. last 10 GB Chicago Sox 18·8 .692 7·23 Detroit 18-9 .667 8-2 .5 Cleveland .14·13 .519 4-6 4.5 Minnesota 10·16 .385 2·8 8 Kansas City 5·18 .217 3·7 11.5 
American League West 

team record perc. last 10 GB Texas 15-12 .556 7-3 Oakland 14-12 .538 7-3 .5 LA Angels 12-15 .444 4-6 3 Seattle 12-16 .444 5·5 3.5 
National League East 

team n~cord perc. last 10 GB NY Mets 17-9 .654 6-4 Atlanta 12·14 .462 4-6 5 Philadelphia 12·14 .462 5-5 5 Washington 9-18 .333 2·8 8.5 Florida 6·18 .250 2-8 10 
National League Central 

tnam record perc. last 10 GB Cincinnati 19-8 .704 8·2 Houston 17-9 .654 6-4 1.5 St. Louis 17-10 .630 6-4 2 Milwaukee 15-12 .556 7-3 4 Chicago 14-11 .560 5·5 4 Pittsburgh 8·20 .286 3-7 11.5 
National League West 

team record perc. last 10 GB Colorado 15-11 .577 6·4 San Francisco 13-13 .500 4·6 2 Arizona 13-13 .500 6·4 2 LA Dodgers 12-14 .462 5·5 3 San Diego 11-15 .423 4·6 4 
Inside Lacrosse Men's 
Lacrosse Media Poll 

team record previous 
1 Virginia 13·0 1 2 Hofstra 14-1 2 3 Cornell 10·2 5 4 Maryland 9·4 3 5 Georgetown 9·2 4 6 Navy 10·3 6t 7 Johns Hopkins 7·4 6t 8 Syracuse 7·4 8 9 Princeton 9·4 9 10 Pennsylvania 10-2 11 11 Towson 8·5 12 12 Denver 12-4 14 13 UMass 9·4 10 14 UMBC 8·4 13 15 NOTRE DAME 9·4 15 16 Penn State 8·4 16 17 Army 8·6 18 18 Loyola 6·5 20 19 Delaware 12·4 NR 20 Colgate 11-3 17 
around the dial 
NBA 

Milwaukee at Detroit, 6 p.m., TNT Washington at Cleveland, 8:30 p.m., TNT 
NHL Anaheim at Calgary, 2 p.m., OLN Tampa Bay at Ottawa, 7 p.m., CBC 
NFL 


Associated Press 
GRAPEVINE, Texas ­Arnold Schwarzenegger doesn't want one NFL team in Los Angeles. He wants two. 
The California governor will probably have to be satisfied with half of his wish -at least in the near future. 
Commissioner Paul Tagliabue and a committee of 11 owners heard pre­sentations Tuesday from officials representing Los Angeles, Anaheim and Pasadena, three cities that want a club. The area has been without an NFL fran­chise for more than a decade. 

Schwarzenegger went first. After meeting with the owners, the actor­turned-politician emerged to say he was there to make sure "we're getting not only one NFL team to the Los Angeles area, Southern California, but to actually get two teams. That's why I came. Why limit it?" 
New York Giants chair­man Steve Tisch, a long­time Los Angeles resident who is on the committee, said that was highly unlikely. 
"I'd be shocked if the suggestion internally to recommend two teams 
IN BRIEF 
Damon takes Fenway boos 
lightly in Yankee uniform 
BOSTON -Johnny Damon still flashed his endearing smile. He still showed his sense of humor. And he stood patiently at his Yankees' locker reliving the boos from his former fans. 
One day after being jeered on every at-bat during his return to Fenway Park in the hated pinstripes, the happy-go-lucky Damon took it all in stride. 
"You kind of just sit back and smile and say, 'Whatever you want to do, you're not going to break me or my character,"' Damon said Tuesday night before the second and final game of the series was postponed by rain. 'Tm very happy with the person that I am, the way I play this game." 
Boston fans cheered his effort and passion the past four seasons when he played center field for the Red Sox but turned against him Monday. They were ready again on Tuesday before the game was called. 

ever comes up. I think the numbers are too big. I think it would be an over­whelming suggestion," Tisch said. 
Added Tagliabue: "One team is our immediate goal. Long term, I think two is a realistic goal." 
The 11 owners spent six hours listening to California politicians and deemed it a significant step in getting the NFL back to nation's second-largest tel­evision market. Tagliabue has made that a priority since both the Rams and Raiders left after the 1994 season. 
"The fact that we're here and doing what we're doing is better than any­thing I could say," Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones said. "This is the strongest effort I've seen on the league's part." 
Los Angeles plans to con­struct a stadium within the shell of the existing Los Angeles Coliseum. Anaheim is offering a 53­acre tract of land for the stadium and economic development. Pasadena, considered a longshot, pro­vided an update on the Rose Bowl. 
"Everybody came away feeling it was some of the best time thefve spent on NFL business in recent months," Tagliabue said. 

~ifollJ!_ fac!ng tough ~hallenge 
m re-election camprugn 
DURHAM, N.C. -The district attorney prosecuting the Duke University rape case faced two chal­lengers in the Democratic primary Tuesday as voters weighed his han­dling of the headline-grabbing case. 
The allegations against team mem­bers have turned what might have been a low-key election into a refer­endum on Mike Nifong's perform­ance. 
"I don't think he did his job," said Antonia Weeks, a writer who has lived in Durham for 29 years. "I don't know who did what, and I'm not pre­tending to know, but I've seen a lot of cases handled in this community, and I've never seen one handled this way before." 
The winner of Tuesday's Democratic primary vote among Nifong, Freda Black and Keith Bishop will likely be the next district attorney since no Republicans are running. 
Lakers forward Brown to be 
investigated on assault charges 
LOS ANGELES -Police Tuesday were investigating a report of a sexu­al assault involving Lakers center Kwame Brown. 
The alleged assault occurred early Saturday, hours after the Lakers beat the Phoenix Suns in Game 3 of their NBA playoff series, Los Angeles Police Department spokesman Jason Lee said. 
"The Los Angeles Cmmty district attorney's office has been made aware of the investigation," said Lee, who declined to provide further details. The case is under investiga­tion by the department's Robbery Homicide Division. 
The Lakers were in Phoenix to play the Suns in Game 5 of their Western Conference playoff series Tuesday night. Lakers spokesman John Black said the 24-year-old Brown was with the team but wouldn't comment fur­ther. 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, May 3, 2006 
SMC SOFTBALL 

We congratulate the exceptional University of Notre Dame graduates who have chosen to pursue a rewarding career with UBS. As part of a global financial powerhouse, you'll enjoy a world of opportunities. Our diverse culture of mutual respect and support gives everyone the opportunity to excel. Your skills and ambition are recognized from the first day on the job. 
www.ubs.com/graduates 

Fulltime Hires Summer Intern Hires Michael Garvey James Flaherty 
UBS is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity in its workplace. (M/F/DN) 
Wealth I Global Asset Investment You&Us *UBS 
Management Management Bank 

Third seeded Belles look for MIAA title 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's enters the MIA!\ Tournament as the No. 3 sned aftflf posting an 11-5 league record, and will face ofT against No. 2 seed Alma on Friday at 11 a.m. 
Alma ( 12-4) fell to the Belles, IJ-1 and 8-1, on April 
8. 
The Seots' only other two losses eame against No. 1 seed Hope College on April 15. llope swept Alma 5-0 and 12­1. 
The second game of the day takes place between Ilope and No. 4 send Olivet. 
Hope (12-1) suffered one conference loss the entire sea­son, falling 1-0 to Saint Mary's on April 5. 
Olivet enters the tournament with a 10-6 record. Olivet swept St. Mary's 2-1 and 6-4 on April 22. 
Even though the Belles fell to Olivet, senior pitcher and outfielder Bridget Grall does not feel that this should be a problem for the team. 
"We are going in starting all over," Grall said. "Starting back at the basics and per­fecting things." 
Grall said the team hopes to focus on improving their already successful season. In order for this to happen, Saint Mary's will have to continue to play loose and not be distract­ed. 

Grall also said the Belles' motivation all season has to been to have fun. If the team is not having fun, than they do not play well. 
Grall, along with fellow sen­iors Audrey Gajor and Meghan Marenkovic, play on Friday with the hope that their game against Alma will not be their last. 
"I think it is easier as a sen­ior to get fired up [for the tournament] than it is for the underclassmen," Grall said. "They have years ahead of them." 
Belles coach Erin Sullivan said the team wants to contin­ue far into the post-season, to ensure that Friday will not be last time the underclassmen walk onto the field with the senior class. 
"We really want to win that tournament [MI!\A tourna­ment[ and advance to Hegionals," Sullivan said. "That has been our goal all season long." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

Lunch and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Thursday, May 4 12:00-1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council tor Gay and lesbian Students invites gay. lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an mformallunch at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone IS welcome and confulentlahty IS assured 
Lunch will be served 

CORE COUNCil 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN
STUDENTS 

Wednesday, May 3, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
ND WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Team will face Vandy as NCAAs loom 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will look to earn its best record in team history Sunday in a 12 p.m. game at Moose Krause Stadium against Vanderbilt. 
The Irish (12-3, 4-1 Big East) are coming off an 11-10 victory against No. 13 Syracuse with a last second goal, and hope to continue winning in their last tune-up before the NCAA Tournament in May. 
"At this stage, we are play­ing mainly for seeding and home field advantage," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "We just need to bring our game." 
As always for the Irish, Coyne said the goal in the days leading up to a contest is to perfect various aspects of play in order to continue developing on the field on a game-by-game basis. 
This week is a little differ­ent for Notre Dame, as Coyne is preparing her team not only for the Vanderbilt game, but also for the NCAA Tournament. 
"We want to win it all," Coyne said. "We are just five games away from playing in the champi­onship game 
':4t this stage, we are

and we feel that if we keep playing mainly for playing our 
seeding and home 

game we can 
field advantage. " 
do it." 

A win for the Irish would do Tracy Coyne more than just 
Irish head coach 

give them good positioning in the postseason tournament. It would also give them the best record in school history, something Coyne is very proud of her team for accom­plishing. 
This year's team has already won nine more 


Department ofAerospace & Mechanical Engineering 
Undergraduate Research Conference 
231, 232, 244, 245 & 246 DeBartolo 2-5 PM, Friday, May 5 _j 

games than last season -in no small part to the addition of freshman Jill Byers and especially the outstanding play of senior attack Crysti Foote. 
Byers has 41 goals and 20 assists going into Sunday's game. She has also provided 
Foote has 
a passing option for Foote, leaving her frontline partner more space and less attention from opposing defenses so either can be a 
threat  to  
score.  
60  goals,  29  

assists, and 41 draw controls -all records for the Irish. 
"Crysti is leaving as the best player ever to wear a Notre Dame lacrosse jersey," Coyne said. "Her success is unparal­leled -she has earned the right to be that player." 

Her incredible statistical effort combined with her fearless play and strong lead­ership on and off the field earned her a Tewaaraton award nomination this year. Coyne said she believes Byers should be a finalist for the award due to not only her play in college, but the fact that she is one of the few international-level players at the college level. 
Byers played for Coyne as part of the Canadian World Cup team last year, leading Team Canada to a fourth place finish at the event. 
"Foote is probably the most underrated player named for the Tewaaraton trophy this year," Coyne said. "It will be very competitive, but I believe the number speak for themselves." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
Notre Dame vs. USC Nov. 25th1 .2006 
Only 200 Reservations AiltJifabfe! 
•2 GAME TICKETS 
•2 
AIRLINE TICKETS (AA} O''HARE TO lAX 

•2 NIGHTS HOTEl RESERVATIONS 

•GROUND 
TRAVEL TO/FROM COtiSEU!'vt 


•Cl\TERED RALLY THE fRIDAY NIGHT BEFORE THE GAME 
Total Package: 
$2,650 per reservation 
tCheak nr CashJ 
GO IRISH! 
TUESDAY, MAY 2@ 5:05PM £;£';:2ANAMERIGAN 
vs. OuiNNIPIAc 
R::voumoN 

FReE 5ASE:BALL CAP TO THE. FIRST 200 FANS 
vs. LOUISVILLE. 
~t?:g:p FRIDAY, MAY 5@ 6:05 FRE:E. fSASE:JSALL GLASS TO EARLY ARRIVING FANS 
SATURDAY, MAY 6@ 1:05PM 
FReE. 5UNC.LASS CAse TO CARLY ARRJVING FANS FReE HAM5URC.cRS/HoTDOGS FOR EARLY ARRIVING ND, SMC, AND HCC SENIORS (WHILE SUPPLIES LAST) FIRST 250 SENIORS WILL RECEIVE THE OFFICIAL SENIOR DAY SHIRT, SPONSORED J:'>Y CocA-COLA. 
SuNDAY, MAY7@ 12:05PM rliifilia 
FRE.E. MINI-fSAT TO EARLY ARRIVING FANs'h':,::~v.~~~" 
TRACK AND fiELD 
Irish take on beasts of the East 
Squads aims to take yet another title in Storrs, Connecticut 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame feels well pre­pared as it heads to Storrs, Conn. this weekend for the Big East championships, after strong showings in its most recent events, 
"At this point, we're about as ready as we're going to get [for the Big East]," Irish sprinters coach John Millar said. 
Last weekend, at the Hillsdale "Gina" Relays and the Drake Relays, the Irish added seven more Big East qualifying marks to their already strong outdoor record. 
Notre Dame looks to reclaim their conference title after finishing in second place last year, and winning in 2003 and 2004. 
The men's team is excited as it prepares for tough con­ference foes, including Louisville and tournament host Connecticut. 
"We've been training really hard all season and we're definitely looking for a win," 

-
Notre Dame junior Geoff Bennett said. 
Bennett qualified for the 110-meter hurdles last week­end at the "Gina" Relays in Hillsdale, Mich. · 
Meanwhile, the women are in position to record an impressive Big East "triple crown" this year with titles already in cross-country and indoor track and field. 
The last conference school to do that on the women's side was Villanova in 1987­88, prior to Notre Dame's entry into the Big East. 
The woman's team will be up against stiff competition, including a tough Pittsburgh unit that won last year's Big East Championsliip in Piscataway, N.J. 
Coach Millar called this event the one that the Irish put the most emphasis on from a team perspective. 
"The NCAAs are more about individual goals, but we ask a lot out of the ath­letes at the Big East," Millar said. 
Millar pointed out that, in order to help the team, some athletes are asked to com­
. pete in more events than they are typ.ically used to. 
"We really just want to rack up as many points as we can and, hopefully, it's more than everyone else has," Millar said. 
The meet will be held this Friday through Sunday at the George J. Sherman Family Sports Complex in Storrs, Connecticut. 
"The last week has given [the athletes] an opportunity to fine-tune," Millar said. "I think we're well-prepared." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, May 3, 2006 
hurt the Irish. Two of the Bamblers' three hits were bunt
Loyola 

singles, including one single in 
which catcher Erin Glasco and 
.first baseman Linda Kohan ran surrenden~d three earned runs into each other, allowing all on seven hits in her thnw runners to advance without an innings of work. out being made. 
Bargar came into the game "There was absolutely no with a 4-2 lead, but found her­communication," Gumpf said. self in a first inning jam after "Everyone was waiting for surrendering two someone else to singles and a walk. "There was lead the team." But the Irish pitch­Bargar's per-
continued from page 24 

absolutely no 
er recovered after formance wasted a
communication.
a runner was strong outing by caught stealing Everyone was starter Heather and a pop-up to Booth, who pitched
wailing for 

Inn. four innings, gave
someone else to
Bargar would not up two runs, two be so lucky in the lead the team. " hits and struck out next two innings, three. But Barger giving up two runs had little run sup­
Deanna Gumpf
in each of the sixth port after she 
Irish head coach 
and seventh entered the game, innings. as the Irish had 
"I believed in Bargar and only three of their nine hits thought she could beat these after the fourth inning. The guys," Irish head coach offense was also unable to Deanna Gumpf said. "She just drive in runners in scoring couldn't get it done." position in the final three 
In the sixth, mental errors innings of the game. 
AA MINI WAREHOUSE 8: STORAGE 
3 Convenient Locations for Your Storage Needs Call us TODAY! 
5510 Shaugn St 816 E McKinley Ave 5213 N Grape Rd 271-1105 259-0335 272-4434 
"I think we just didn't come out with an intense attitude," Irish third baseman Meagan Ruthrauff said. "We've been playing on our heels a lot and that's become a trend for us lately." 
With only four games left this season -a pair of doublehead­ers this weekend against Seton Hall and St. John's-Notre Dame will need to rebound quickly to get back to its win­ning ways before the Big East championships start May 11. 
The final four Big East games will be crucial for the Irish to build momentum heading into the postseason. 
"This weekend hugely affects us for the postseason," Gumpf said. "If you are set to play us in the postseason, you are looking at us and thinking we are tanking at the wrong time of the season." 
As for the postseason itself, the team cannot start to get ready for the Big East t<Jurna­ment because getting back on the right track is more impor­tant at this point. 
"We need to get four wins out of this weekend," Huthrauff said. "It is crucial for our morale to turn it up a notch." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 


The Professional Development Committee of the University Libraries would like to invite you to a lecture by Judith Krug, director of the American Library Association's Office oflntellectual Freedom, Thursday, May 4 at 4PM in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium: 
Intellectual Freedom, National Security, and the Academy: the threats offederal legislation and administrative actions to intellectual freedom at American colleges and universities 
Dr. Krug is probably the person most identified with libraries and 
intellectual freedom, having directed the ALA's Office ofIntellectual 
Freedom since its founding in 1968. She helped to found both the 
Freedom to Read Foundation and Banned Books Week in order to raise 
awareness about censorship. She is also the author of numerous books 
and articles on intellectual freedom, censorship, and patron privacy in 
libraries. 

Recent debates about academic freedom on campus and the amending of 
the USA PATRlOT Act make her presentation particularly relevant to 
the Notre Dame community. We hope that you will take this opportunity 
to come and debate these issues. 
Please join us Thursday, May 4 at 4PM in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
~illiJDIIhm 
aJ\OOI[[OO]]fi[ffill 
~illrQGI~ 
qmnmmnm 
m"'\~~~ 
MINI 
COKE ~ DIPLOMA ~:~~--~~ $300 
Booksl:ore
L.CJj FRAME ··.~~.­
FRIDGE Gift Card 
Wednesday, May 3, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

eyes of the committee." with a worse record than Notre Getting into the top ten in the Dame.
Laxers 
country might be a bit of a stretch But Coach Corrigan knows that continued from page 24 
for the No. 15/18 Irish, but there all his team can do is try turn in 
are some teams in reach. No. an impressive performance this making the NCAA Tournament, 16/15 Penn State (8-4) plays No. Saturday against Quinnipiac, and that ranking may not be enough 5/5 Georgetown this weekend for he sees it as a last chance oppor­for the Irish. the championship of the East tunity to make a statement to the 
''I'm not worried about the Coast Athletic Conference committee. polls right now, but things are (ECAC). With a loss, the Nittany Quinnipiac (7-5, 1-3 in the going to have to fall just right for Lions would miss out on the GWLL) is coming off an impres­us to get in," Irish coach Kevin ECAC's automatic bid and finish sive 12-9 win over conference Corrigan said. with a worse record than the rival Butler. 
or the 16 available spots, seven Irish. "It's the only thing we can con­go to conference champions and Another team that Notre Dame trol," Corrigan said. 'The biggest nine are awarded to at-large could pass is No. 11/12 Towson. statement we can make is to beat bids. A committee determines The Tigers (8-5) play Delaware them. I'm not going to worry who receives the at-large bids. (11-4) in the semifinals of the about the margin because we 
"The polls are inaccurate at Colonial Athletic Association on need to focus on winning the best because the committee does­Wednesday night. A loss would game." n't go by the polls," Corrigan said. deprive Towson of their fourth 'The only way to be certain to get consecutive CAA championship Contact Greg Arbogast at in is to get into the top ten in the and would guarantee it finishes garbogas@nd.edu 
and third innings were cut short by base running mistakes. In the first, 

Vikings 
continued from page 24 
Jeremy Barnes drove in three of the runs with his second home run of the year. 
Long pitched 3 1-3 innings, allowed nine runs on eight hits and walked four. 
Notre Dame starting pitcher David Gruener threw just one inning, giving up two hits in a scoreless first. He was replaced by senior left-bander Tom Thornton, who threw two scoreless innings, allowing no hits and striking out one. 
Thornton, who usually starts for the Irish on Sundays, missed the final game of the Connecticut series with a leg injury. Mainieri said he hasn't decided if Thornton will start this coming Sunday against Louisville or if sophomore lefthander Wade Korpi, who pitched against the Huskies, will replace him. 
"The test is going to be tomor­row, if his knee swells up and how he feels," Mainieri said. 
Four other pitchers, sophomore Joey Williamson and freshmen Brett Graffy, David Phelps and Sam Elam, combined to pitch the last six innings for Notre Dame. The four combined to allow one run on one hit and struck out seven VIkings. 
Graffy (2-1) was credited with the win. 
Oeveland State scored its lone run in the fifth inning. Designated hitter Sam Clyde walked to start the inning, advanced to second on a walk by center fielder John Westra, took third on a wild pitch and scored on a groundout by shortstop Bobby Cash. 
Irish rallies in the first, second right fielder Danny Dressman was doubled up at second on a fly-out to center. In the second, first base­man Craig Cooper was thrown out trying to stretch a single into a double, and, in the third, second baseman Ross Brezovsky was dou­bled up on second after a line drive out. 
"I watch big-league games and the same things happen," Mainieri said of the baserunning errors. "Sometimes we want these kids to be perfect, but they make mistakes here and there. The important thing is they learned from it." 
Notes: 
+Mainieri was able to empty his bench late in the game, giving at bats to seniors Steve Andres and Eddie Smith, juniors Mike Dury and John Seabaugh, sophomore Orris Soriano and freshmen Eddie Mendiola and Evan Sharpley. In total, 23 Irish players saw playing time. 
"It's good to be able to get guys into the game that are practicing just as hard as the starters but don't always get a chance to play," Mainieri said. 
+Starting catcher Sean Gaston did not play Tuesday due to stom­ach discomfort. Mainieri said he did not expect the illness to keep the junior out of any more games. 
+The Irish will be in action again Friday, Saturday and Sunday at Frank Eck Stadium in a confer­ence series against Louisville. Friday's game will start at 6:05 p.m., Saturday's game will begin at 
1:05 p.m. and Sunday's first pitch will be thrown 12:05 p.m. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

-
Congratulations To All Award Recipients And Winners For The 2006 Bookstore Basketball Tournament! 
Open Tournament women's Tournament 
Tou:rnant.ent Chant.pions 
Tou:rnant.ent Chant.pions U Got A Bad D:raw Anthony T:ravel 
Mr. Bookstore 2006 Ms. Bookstore 2006 Carl Anderson "The Saltines" Heather VanHoegarden "Team UBS" MVP MVP Chinedum Ndukwe "U Got A Bad Draw" Angie Potthoff "Anthony Travel" 
2006 All-Bookstore Teams First Team First Team John Carlson 
Bridget Boyce Pete Courtney Bridget Lipke Eric Laumann Anne Parrett Chris Murphy Tess Murray 
Tot:n Witherspoon Casie Sweeney 
Second Team Second Team Deyvehn East Jill Bodensteiner Lee Goeddel Kim Crehan Eric Hiltz Karen Daniels Mike Ortiz Raquel Ferrer 
Colin Walsh Alyssa Howell 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, May 3, 2006 
NCAA 
continued from page 24 
finals -and tlw NCAA lour­
namPnl, Bayliss has bonn 
working the tmun hardm. 
"We're continuing to try to nmphasizn a stronger doublns pn~snncn," Bayliss said. "Also, we've boon playing more com­pntitivn snts than normal bncausn during tlw season you're competing a lot, and you need to go b<u:k to fund all tlw time. But at this time wo'll lw almost throe wonks without competing." 
'1'111~ loss in the Big East tournament may have moti­vatml the Irish going into the postsoason. 
"Tlwro wero a lot of' ramili­

l:.ation~ th•,;re. no_t just _the.. Bi.g btst t1tlo. Bayliss sa1d. Its hopel"ully a good lesson for us noxt ynar. I think thnro's a rnnowod sense of' purpose and 
urgency in what we'ro doing and I'm pretty confident that we'll play well in the NCAA tou rnamnnt." 
Notes: 
+Captain Patrick Buchanan is ono of five Notre Dame rncipinnts of' the Arthur Asho Sports Scholar award. Buchanan. who recently appliod to mndical school, nH:nived tho distinction based on athlotic. academic and community service nxcnllence. 
"They were looking for pno­pln who had out GPA's but who had also excelled in other an~as. both athletics and in community servico, and Patrick's certainly bonn a groat ropresentative in that sonsn," Bayliss said. 
+ Froshman Brett Helgeson was namnd to tho Big East AII-Tournanwnt team. as was the dou bins duo of Hyan Kncklny and Erie Langonkamp. The pair is No. 2S nationally and hoping for an NCAA bid. 
"Maybo this is a littlo bit of consolation for thom. although I doubt any of our guys are worried about post­season awards," Bayliss said. "I'm sure each of' them would have traded it for a win over Louisville." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Recycle The Observer 
:~ 

NCAA tournament]." "The seniors this year won two rounds will bn played on However. it was three out of four Big East campus sites from May 12-13
ChaiDps 
Louderback  who  guidnd  titles )during their collegiate  and the final four  will  be  
continued from page 24  Thompson and the rest of her  career] and that is prntty  held at Stanford from  May  
teammates to the  special,"  18-21.  
tlwir advantage," Irish junior Christian Thompson said. "But we played well and  title and the suc­cessful regular season this year.  "We have had a great season and  Christian Thompson said. "Before this sea­ The NCAA pairings will be held at 8:30 p.m. with the Irish hoping to be one of the  
evoryone got the job done.  Notre Dame went  hope it will help us  son's  I Big  East  four initial sites for the first  
In the conference champi­onships, Catrina Thompson cruised to her second consec­ from being ranked No. 22 in the preseason to  to be able to play at home during the  championships, Louderback I read us a printed arti­ rounds of the tournament. "We have had a great sea­son and hope it will help us  
utive singles MVP title while  No.  2  after  the  first two rounds."  cle  that  said  to be able to  play at home  
dropping only five  games  Big East tourna­ South Florida was  during the first two rounds,"  
throughout the tournament. "Sho goes out to every  ment and is 24-1 so far this season.  Christian Thompson  going away  to walk with the  Christian Thorn pson said. "This week we arn working  
mateh and competes at her  Louderback is No.  Irish junior  title and this real­ hard  and  hope  the  tough  
best," Christian Thompson  7  among  active  ly inspired  us  to  practices and conditioning  
said. "She made a significant  NCAA Division-!  prove  them  will lead  us  into the NCAA's  
impact both years during the  women's tennis coaches in  wrong."  with a lot of confidence."  
regular season and the tour­ career victories and is just  After earning the title, the  
namnnts  ]Big  East  the 1Oth coach ever to reach  Irish  are  focused  on  the  Contact Dan Tapetillo at  
Championships  and  the  500 career wins.  NCAA Tournament. The first  jtapetil@nd.edu  


Call Me Text Me Pix Me 
It's all free for me. 

~US. Cellular
Take our best network chaUenge. test our products, experience 
our customer service and make sure they are right for you. 

We connect wzth you~ 
Offer valid on two-year sentice agreement on local and regional plans of $39.95 or higher. All sentice agreements subject ID an early termination tee. Credft approval required. $30 actlwtion tee. $t 5 equipment change fee. Roaming charges, fees. sutd1arges, OYerage charges and taxes apply. $0.96 Regulatory Cost Recovery Fee applies. This Is not atax or government-required charge. Local netWOik coverage and reli­ability may vary. Usage rounded up to the next full minute. Use of SlliVice cooslltutes acceplance of our terms and conditions. Free CAll ME Minutes"' are not deducted from pad(age minutes and are only available when receiving calls in yoo-local calling area Local calling area dlllern from nallonal calling area. Promotional phone is subject ID change. $50 mail-in rebaiB and purdla5e of $9.95 unlimited ~access plan required. Available on new activations or renewal of service. $9.95 unlimited easyedge access plan must be on account of minimum of 00 days. Allow 1Q-12 weeks fllr rebate process­ing. Umfied time offer. See store or website for details. Offer not available on TalkTrackel"' accounts. U.S. Cellular and easyedge are proprietary marl<s. All other trademarks are the exclusive property of U1eir respective ownern. Customer.; may onty use the eaayedge unlimited plan for access ID eaayedge applications. All other usage iS stricUy prohllliled. Text Messaging-a charge of $.10 per CXJf!joing message applies d no messaging package is selected or existing package lim~ is exceeded. By using U.S. Cellular's text messaging you agree ID be bound by all 1Brms and conditions at www.uscellular.corniMessagingterms. Piclln Messaging requires U.S. Cellular®-approved phone and usage plan. Picture Messaging only available in easyedge coverage area (see brocl1ure for detailS). '1bu may be charged for pictiJre messages sent from )Wr phone, even if not delivered to the intended recipient due 1D system or compatibility Issues. U.S. Celkllar® is not responsible fllr content of pictures. 30-llay Guaranllle: Customer Is responsible lor any charges Incurred prior to return. All rights reserved. Other restr1ctions apply. See store for delalls. Umited lime offer. C2006 U.S. Cellular Corpocalion. 
Cyer; \Btgetota 


Wednesday, May 3, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

ALEC WHITE and ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 


HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JJ~rnlliiR 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LAM BY 
1 
rJ 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. AU Rights Reserved. 
SURNP 
j
I rI I SPYNAP j
rJ r 
www.jumble.com 
GEBBUD 
1 

rJ Answer: ON THEm rI I Jrn 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday' Jumbles: GUIDE JUROR BARREL REALTY 
s Answer: What the henpecked king considered his wife 
I 

-THE RULER RULER 

THE: BANK MANAGE:!< ROSE: TO THE: TOP BE:C.AUSE: HE: WAS--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 39 Lodge letters 64 Some govt. 1 Gardener's tool 40 Fair sight agents 6 Zipped (by) 65 It can follow the
41 Many N.Y.C. 

first word of 17­10 Trident-shaped residences and 58-Acrossletters 42 Pet and 11-and 14 Divided land 43 It's just left of a 28-Down
15 _lamp 
45 Choice bit 16 Tops 46 Early Beatie DOWN17 Conversation Sutcliffe 1 Go from first tostarter, maybe 48 Bow maker's third, say19 Hosiery shade material 2 Somewhat, in20 Follow in time music49 Not dis 21 Make even 3 Mars' 50 One in theshorter counterpartcross hairs23 Some N.F.L.ers 

4 Collector's 52 Lantern filler24 Brady sibling 
item? 25 Krypton, e.g. 57 Small dog, 5 It's examined informally
26 Peyote is one with an 30 Shop tool otoscope
58 Ozzy Osbourne's

32 Bud, in time 6 F minor has 
music 

four of them word 7 Summer camp 
33 Starbucks menu 60 Genesis victim 
34 Word often 61 Orfeo, e.g., in location followed by a Gluck's "Orfeo 8 Party time, numeral maybe
ed Euridice" 37 Some add-ons 62 Guardian Life 9 One may last a 
38 What to view  competitor  lifetime  
the Beeb on  63 Child's closetful  10 Huff and puff  
11 Sore loser's  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  reaction, maybe  
";;T-;::-r.:-:r.~  12 Where mahouts  
toil  
"::'f~:-rl-:==-1  13 Gives the  
impression of  
being  
18 Grub  
22 Pull the plug on  
24 Puts in a can?  

.-.=-r.c::+:+-+=+-:::-..,.-=+=+::+::-1 26 ''Ten-four'' speaker -=+,__....,II!IP~=+::w--=+=-8 27 "That's need!" 28 Immediately and completely -;:-t;::;-t-;:+.~~ 29 Where sailors go 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

30 Like some 42 Foggy Bottom's 52 Actress Winslet sailors' river language 53 Futures dealer? 
44 "Later'' 31 Glowing 45 Piela figure 54 Kitchen add-on?

remnant 

46 Mar. honoree 33 Pepe of 55 "Peter Pan" dog 
47 Popularcartoons 
exercise system 
56 Oater actor35 Place to moor 
49 English cattle 
Jack
36 Stiletto, e.g. breed 38 "There!" 51 Salon supply 59 Slippery _ 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nylimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip._______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS OAY: Dwayne "the Rock" Johnson, 34; Lesley Gore, 60; Bianca Jagger, 61; Roscoe Lee Browne, 81 
Happy Birthday: Changes you make at home this year will make life easier. Take advantage ofany opportunity to start your own small business, although it will mean added responsibilities and work. Your numbers are 9, II, 19, 28, 33, 42 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Keep everything out in the open or you may be accused of being secretive. Make personal changes or improve your living space. 2 stars 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You can rely on friends and relatives to help you make the right decision. Connect with someone from your past whom you miss. Making a short jaunt down memory lane will lead to something very special. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Focus on whatever jobs have been assigned to you. What you accomplish today will determine what your advancement will be in the ­future. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-Ju1y 22): You will become emotional easily and must try to keep things in perspective. Nothing will be as bad as you imagine. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Travel, finances and home improvements are all in a high cycle but don't overspend on anything unnecessary. You can expect your household to be busy and someone is likely to call your bluff or oppose your opinions. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take better care ofyourself. You will become frazzled ifyou take on too much or let someone play emotional games with you. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't let anyone dump his or her responsibilities in your lap. Work-related matters may get your blood boiling. Let it pass and show professionalism and control --it will be you who comes out on top. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You've got everything going for you today. Present, promote or develop one of your creative dreams. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Someone you trust will fool you. Problems at home and concerning financial matters can be expected. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Everything may be up in the air in your personal life. You may have trouble figuring out where you stand. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't fool yourself into thinking someone has a greater interest in you than he or she actually does. Ulterior motives are likely so question why someone wants to give you something or do something for you. Stress will lead to minor ailments. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Focus on hobbies or fixing up your house or property. This is a great day to sign a contract, close a deal or invest in something tangible. A change will turn out to be beneficial in the end so don't fight the inevitable. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are stubborn, intelligent and quick to react. You have the vision to see things as they really are. You are unpredictable, original and inventive. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fon, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
,--·~---­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, May 3, 2006 
page 24 
BASEBALL 
Irish belt out 16 hits in their 12-1 victory over Cleveland State 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associat~ Spons Editor 
Notre Dame bangHd out 16 hits Tw~sday, cruising to a 12-1 vietory over Cleveland State at Frank Eck Stadium. 
The Irish (36-9-1. 16-1-1 in the Big East) seurml in six of their night innin!-,rs. The Vikings (8-30, 6­14 in the llorizon League), though, managml only three hits for the game and just one after the first inning. 
"It's always good f(>r my heart to havn a game like today when we win a game pmtty handily," Notre Dame coach Paul Mainieri said. 
Already leading 4-0, Notre Damn blew the gmne wide open in the fourth, scoring live runs on thme hits and driving Cleveland State starting pitcher Brian Long out of the game. Third baseman 
see VIKINGS/page 21 
Sweet 16 


MEN'S lACROSSE 

Irish hope for best in postseason 
Quinnipiac comes to Moose Krause Stadium for Saturday matchup 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 

The Irish know they control the outcome against Quinnipiac in their final regular season game this Saturday, but a f(lw extra trips to the Grotto this week ean't hurt. 
Notre Damn will learn between Wednesday and Saturday if they have a realistic chance to make the NCAA Tournament. The team is 9-4 (2-2 in the Greater Western Lacrosse League) and ranked No. 15 by the Inside Lacrosse Men's Media Poll and No. 18 by the STX Coaches Poll. With only 16 teams 
see LAXERS/page 21 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Team awaits announcement of tourney field
-
named a host site as a top-16 No. 17 Florida State is just preparing for specific "I haven't wasted one bit of 
By KATE GALES 

seed. 0.55 points ahead of the Irish matchups, but they have been sleep over it or given it one bit A<sociat~ Sports Ediwr 
"An interesting wrinkle has in the computer rankings. training hard nonetheless. of thought ... it's something I come up," Notre Dame coach Notre Dame beat Florida State "We don't know whether have no control over." It is a time for waiting, but Bobby Bayliss said. "[No. 8] 4-3 in a head-to-head match we'll be here or somewhere Because of the long break the Irish are ready right now. Illinois is not going to be on March 14. else," Bayliss said. "I've gotten between the Big East tourna­
The NCAA Tournament field allowed to host ... that's one of "There's still a very slight a number of phone calls from ment -which ended with an will be announced tonight, the penalties the NCAA has if chance that we would host, coaches all over the country Irish loss to Louisville in the and the No. 18 Irish have an you didn't get rid of your but I doubt it," Bayliss said. who are trying to figure [it] outside chance at being Native American mascots." The team is unable to start out. see NCAA/page 22 
ND WoMEN's TENNIS 

Big East cha111pions prepare for title run 
NCAA tournament commences May 13 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Spans Writer 
The newly crowned Big East champion Notre Dame will head into the NCAA tournament starting May 13 with hopes of capturing the national title. 
Not only did the No. 2 Irish earn the conference 

title in Tampa, Fla. April 23, they excelled on the individ­ual level as well. Irish coach Jay Louderback earned his sixth Big East Coach-of-the­Year Award, and junior Catrina Thompson repeated as the tournament's MVP. 
"It was great to repeat the Big East victory because the conditions were extremely tough and playing on South Florida's home turf [in the finals) was definitely to 
see CHAMPS/page 22 
ND SOFTBALL 

Diamond woes prolonged 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 

Loyola-Chicago left fielder Nora Schober drove a 2-1 pitch from Irish right-hander Brittney Bargar to the gap in left-center field for the go­ahead runs in the Hamblers' 6­4 win against Notre Dame Tuesday. 
The loss to Loyola-Chicago (16-37, 8-8 Horizon) was Notre Dame's (34-18, 14-4 Big East) fourth in a row. It was espe­cially tough for Bargar, who 
see LOYOLA/page 20 

en 
SMC SOFTBALL
WOMEN'S LAX 

TRACK AND FIELD 
MLB
MLB 
MLB 
t: u LLI 

Padres 6 
Indians 7 
Vanderbilt at 
Pirates 8 
No. 3 seed Saint

Notre Dame journeys 
z Notre Dame 

Giants 3 
White Sox 1 
Cubs 0 
Mary's will play Alma

to Storrs, Conn., for the
:3 
in the first round of the 

San Francisco out-
Pirates pitcher Zach
Sunday, noon 

Big East championships 
Cleveland pitcher
MIAA tournament 

fielder Barry Bonds hits 
Duke continues his 
= c:s: The Irish end the reg-

this weekend. 
C.C. Sabathia picked up
Friday in Holland,

"-
home run No. 712. 
domination of the Cubs 
ular season against the 

his first win of the year. 
= 
with win. 
Mich.
;: Commodores. 

en 
page 16
page 19 
page 18
page 19 
page 16
page 16 








