
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Off-campus thefts target student vehicles 
Residential areas, apartment complexes hit by rash of break-ins 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Editor  vehicle break-ins and theft have left many off-campus residents feeling frustrated and unsafe.  ally happen" on their street. The South Bend Police Department told McCall a similar break-in­ 
Senior Thomas McCall awoke  where only golf clubs  were  
Senior Matt Houser woke up  this weekend to find his car win­ taken  -happened the same  
Thursday morning to the news  dow smashed and his golf clubs  night.  
that a window on his car-sit­ stolen from the trunk of his ear,  And police say it will probably  
ting in the driveway of his  which was sitting in the drive­ happen again.  
Warrick Street house  - had  way of his house on a quiet area  When Houser reported his  
been smashed.  of Juniper Road.  incident  to  the South Bend  
"I had a CD player, amplifier  . "They didn't take any of the  Police Department, officers told  
and subwoofer, totaling about a  electronic equipment," said  him that "they would hit again  
grand, stolen," Houser said.  McCall, who lives on Juniper  during home football games,  
"The window was broken, which  . Road near Welworth Street and  before  Christmas,  after  
eost $235 to replace."  Whitefield Road. "They only  Christmas and then again at the  
The break-in to Houser's car  took my golf clubs."  end of the year."  
was not the only one off-campus  McCall said he lives in a resi­ "[The police officer] recom-CLEMENT SUHENDRA!rhe Observer  
residents have seen in recent  dential area, and his neighbors  Two cars at Stadium Club Apartments on Bulla Road were  
weeks. Numerous incidences of  said such break-ins "do not usu- see THEFTS/page 4 broken into last week.  

Sum.m.er training benefits University ROTC participants 

Junior Patrick Grainey, right, instructs freshmen in a ROTC drill during freshman orientation week. 
By BRIDGET KEATING News Writer 

As senior Ryan Larson landed in Fort Lewis, Wash. for an Army leadership assessment camp, he felt prepared for the challenges that lay ahead. 
"I felt ... confident that the training program at Notre Dame prepared me for success and knew I'd face few surpris­es." 
Now back on campus for the academic year, course work· and busy schedules pale to compare to the rigors of the challenges Larson and his fel­low Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) faced during the summer. 
Students enrolled in Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) programs at Notre Dame bal­ance a full course load with physical and classroom military training, as well as extracurric­ular involvement -and the work continues when school is out of session. 

While most students digress from such a demanding sched­ule during the summer months, ROTC cadets and midshipmen dive into various required and voluntary training and leader­ship programs in preparation for futures in their respective branches. 
Each branch participates in competitive programs that allow students from colleges across the country to gather to demonstrate their abilities. Often summer results are fac­tored into a formula that con­tributes to placement upon commissioning. 

Major Gary Masapollo likened Army summer commitment to the "bowl game" of Army ROTC. The most crucial step for any AROTC student is the completion of Warrior Forge Leadership Development Assessment Course (LDAC), he said. 
Notre Dame AROTC focuses heavily on cadet readiness for camp because camp scores can amount to half of their entire four-year grade, Masapollo said. 
In addition, scores influence a cadet's selection opportuni­ties upon commissioning. Strong Scholar Athlete Leader profiles include a high academ­ic record -including military studies -and involvement in athletics, community service and other activities. 
To ensure solid performances from Notre Dame participants, current juniors prepare 
see ROTC/page 6 


Service seminars attract hundreds 
ND community to give back over break 
By MEGAN SENNETT News Writer 
For many Notre Dame stu­dents, fall break is their first chance to escape the rigors of college life but for others, the class-free week is the perfect time to give back to their com­munity. 

· This year, the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) received about 320 applications for its fall break seminars, said Angela Miller-McGraw, director of Educational Immersion and the Appalachia Seminar. 
The turnout impressed Miller­McGraw, who hopes for even more applicants for the winter 
see BREAK/page 4 


CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Mem.bers establish task forces, set goals 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Concerns ranging from stu­dents safety to gambling and alcohol abuse were raised at the first Campus Life Council 
(CLC) meeting of the year Monday. 
To manage and address these pressing issues the CLC created three task (orces ­Conduct Awareness, Student Concerns and Student Voice and Input -and one ad-hoc committee regarding student safety matters to organize its approach to this year's student affairs agenda. 

Student body president and CLC chair Lizzi Shappell start­ed the meeting with introduc­tions and explained the coun­cil's job and how it operates to new members. 
"This body's purpose is to advise [Vice President for Student Affairs) Father [Mark] Poorman," Shappell said. "In bringing rectors, administra­tors, and faculty to the table, I personally believe that it encompasses student life, but from different perspectives." 
Most of the work of the CLC gets done on the task force, Shappell said. Last year, she 
see CLC/page 4 

'I ~ I I o ~
.' . 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, August 29, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Not just crab cakes 
Quick! 
Name one thing about Maryland. 
Let me guess. You either said crab 
cakes or football, right? 
Because that's what we do. 
Hey, it was in a 
movie, and Jay Fitzpatrick 
movies don't lie, 
do they?
Well, as a Sports Writer Marylander, I can tell you right now that was way off the mark. We don't "do" football. We do lacrosse. Or jousting, _if you want our offlcial state sport. But it's okay if you didn't know that, because not many people do. They don't care about Maryland. It's just that goofy looking state shoved between Pennsylvania and Virginia. Oh, we're near D.C., but as a Baltimorean, I hate D.C. But if you go back far enough, to the colonial age, you may remem­ber that we Marylanders were the flrst to allow Catholics to live freely, so about 85 percent of you reading this owe us a .big thank you. Or at least a little wave on your way passing through. Move forward in time to 1787 and the Constitution. ·This is the begin­ning of Maryland's obscurity as even Delaware passed us. Of course you're going to be the "First State" -you're right next to Philly, and you only have three counties. Let it go. Now we go to 1814, the Battle of Baltimore. If you didn't know, this is when the Star Spangled Banner was written, so every time you sing that song, you are praising the bravery of Marylanders. But most of the time, that gets left out of the story too. I still blame Delaware. Have you ever wondered why our football team is the Ravens? That's right, kiddies, it's because a corrupt political machine bought Edgar Allan Poe's vote multiple times in exchange for alcohol -so much so that it left him dead in a gutter. And since we're good peo­ple, we buried him in one of our church graveyards and named a team after one of his poems 140 years later. And what was Poe doing there in the first place? He was passing through on his way from Richmond to Philadelphia. In the 20th century, Maryland was blessed with two of the greatest teams in sports history-Johnny Unitas' Baltimore Colts and the Orioles of 1966-83. Unfortunately, the Colts snuck out to Indianapolis in the dead of night, and the Orioles are now one of tbe worst franchises in sports. Oh well. At least our crab cakes are good. 

Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at ifitzpa5@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publication and strives for rbe highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize rbat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE SECTION OF THE OBSERVER? 









Ada Lubanski Hava Bourne Jason Briggs Jon Henry Mark Skylling Shannon Brady 
senior junior sophomore junior sophomore sophomore McGlinn Breen Phillips Zahm St. Ed's Keough Lyons 
"Question ofthe "Editorials, "Question ofthe "Scene. The "Comic section "Question ofthe Day. It is the because it is Day, so I can writers do a -Jockular. It Day. It makes my funniest something new see my picture good job." cracks me up. " day." 
section. " everyday. " on it." 

Woman crashes while teaching dog to drive 
BEIJING -A woman in I-lohhot, the capital of north China's Inner Mongolia region, crashed her car while giving her dog a driv­ing lesson, the official Xinhua News Agency said Monday. 
No injuries were reported although both vehicles were slightly damaged, it said. 
The woman, identified only be her surname, Li, said her dog "was fond of crouching on the steering wheel and often watched her drive," according to Xinhua. 
"She thought she would let the dog 'have a try' while she operated the accelerator and brake," the report said. "They did not make it far before crashing into an oncoming car." 

Xinhua did not say what kind of dog or vehicles were involved but Li paid for repairs. 
Man sends pornographic pictures to ex's family 
APE GIRARDEAU, Mo. ­A southeast Missouri man will go to jail for breaking into his ex-wife's e-mail and sending pornographic pic­tures of her to her relatives. 
Alfred Seals, 47, of Cape Girardeau, pleaded guilty Wednesday to misde­meanor tampering with computer data, and was sentenced to 20 days in jail. 
Seals gained access to his wife's e-mail account with­out her consent, then e­mailed the woman's family a Web site link and mes­sage stating, "something nice to see," according to a probable-cause statement. 
The link took users to a Web site that contained several pornographic pic­tures Seals took of the woman when they were married. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a: 
LLI 



:::1: 
!;;: 
LLI 

3: 
...... 
~ 
ct 
(,) 

..... 0 HIGH 78 HIGH 65 HIGH 76 HIGH 78 
LOW 56 LOW 56 LOW 56 LOW 56 
IN BRIEF 
Student Activities will host its annual Activities Night tonight from 7 p.m. to 9 in the Joyce Center. 
"Goodie and The Feel Alrights" will perform at Legends at 10 p.m. Thursday. The show is free for students. 
Chicago's "Howl at the Moon" dueling pianos will perform at Legends at 10 
p.m Friday. ND, SMC or I-ICC student ID required for admis­sion. 
"An Inconvenient Truth" will be shown at 7 p.m. & 10 
p.m. Thursday and Friday in Browning Cinema at The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Admission is $6 for general public, $5 for faculty, $4 for seniors and $3 for stu­dents. 
The'Snite Museum of Art will showcase Mexican migra­tion to the United States through a multimedia exhibit that includes Chicano and Mexican visual arts beginning Sunday, Sept. 3 in the muse­um's O'Shaughnessy Galleries, Mestrovic Studio Gallery and the entrance atrium. 
The sixth annual Saturday Scholar Series will feature six lectures and a performance by leading faculty members on each home football game weekend this fall. The first lecture, "More Than a Movie? Assessing 'The Da Vinci Code'" will be held, as always, three and a half hours before kickoff on Sept. 9 in DeBartolo 101. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 
~

~ 
HIGH 80 HIGH 80 LOW 58 LOW 58 
Atlanta 90 I 71 Boston 71 I 58 Chicago 78 I 66 Denver 81 I 57 Houston 92 I 71 Los Angeles 89 I 62 Minneapolis 80 I 57 New York 73 I 64 Philadelphia 82 I 67 Phoenix 106 I 81 Seattle 67 I 50 St. Louis 73 I 62 Tampa 93 I 76 Washington 93 I 76 
Tuesday, August 29, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


Group welcomes new SMC faculty 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance lauded the suc­cess of its opening events Monday during its first meet­ing of the semester and kicked off Wednesday -is off to a good start, Mcllduff said. 
Mcllduff asked the board to welcome professor Jill Vihtelic to the position of interim vice president and dean of faculty and two new associate deans, Dr. Joseph Incandela of the religious studies department and 
welcomed new "The all-school Mass Deb McCarthy of faculty mem­the science 
was a huge success

bers. department. 
Student body and we had a great She also asked president Susan turnout.,, the board to wel-Mcllduff come Vice thanked com­President of 
Susan Mcllduff

mittee members Student Affairs for their atten­student body president Karen Johnson to 
dance at the all­school Mass held at the Church of Loretto Sunday and welcomed them back to campus. 
"The all-school Mass was a huge success and [we had] a great turnout," she said. 
Student Activities Board president Claudia Toth cited the high turnout of the Jamaica Shaka as another example of the success of the events. 
Many Holy Cross and Notre Dame students commented on the large turnout this year, Toth said. 
The revised Saint Mary's readership program -which campus. Johnson 
comes from Saint Mary's University in San Antonio, Texas. In other BOG News: 
+ 
Saint Mary's activities night is Wednesday from 6 p.m. to 8. 

+ 
Residence Hall Association president Amy Dardinger said that Regina, McCandless and Holy Cross Halls are still in need of a president and vice president. 

+ 
The Twilight Tailgate is Thursday, Sept. 7 from 2 p.m:' to 9 and will be hosted by the Student Activities Board. 


Contact Liz Harter at eharte@saintmarys.edu 

Grant funds biologist's research 
Lodge helps assess 
. . . . 
znvaszve speczes zn Great Lakes region 
Special to The Observer 
The eight Great Lakes states have an estimated 3. 7 million registered recreationaJ boats, which is one-third of the nation's total number. An esti­mated $16 billion industry, recreational boating in the Great Lakes region is two-and­one-half times larger than commercial navigation on the Great Lakes. 
Few, if any, of these recre­ational boaters realize that they are key actors in the drama of invasive species in the United States. 
Now, Notre Dame biologist David Lodge, The Nature Conservancy's Great Lakes Program, University of Georgia researchers, and other private and public partners are com­bining their scientific and man­agement expertise to assess the risk of future invasive species invasions. Funded by a $1.1 million grant from the Great Lakes Protection Fund, the researchers hope to improve ecosystem-wide man­agement of these species in the lakes and adjacent inland water bodies. 
"Our goal is to develop tools and then to apply these tools to the forecasting of invasive species in the Great Lakes," Lodge said. "This project scales from the species distributed by global patterns of shipping, through the Great Lakes as a regional epicenter for invasions of North America, to local management of species spreading from the Great Lakes to inland aquatic ecosys­tems." 
The Great Lakes are a key beachhead for invasions of invasive species into the United States. Ships arrive at Great Lakes destinations from ports throughout the world, often bearing non-native species in their ballast water. The water is then discharged into the lakes. 
Recreational boaters su.bse­quently use the Great Lakes, unaware that in the process invasive species are now resid­ing on their boats and trailers. The boaters later introduce the species into other inland waterways they use for recre­ation. 
Lodge notes that researchers will first rank the major ports of the world in order of the threat they pose as a source of invasive species to the Great Lakes. 
"This risk assessment will be based on environmental simi­larity, such as salinity and tem­perature, and on the identifica­tion of potentially harmful species that inhabit ports that are linked by shipping to the Great Lakes," Lodge said. "We will analyze the past and exist­ing ship traffic among high risk ports and the lakes." 
The researchers also will 
develop novel genetic technolo­gies to conduct real-time moni­toring of selected, high-concern harmful organisms in ballast water of ships entering the Great Lakes. Working in con­junction with Hsueh-Chia Chang of the Notre Dame Center for Microfluidics, Lodge and fellow Notre Dame biolo­gist Jeff Feder hope to develop a hand-held "lab on a chip" that could rapidly and accu­rately detect invasive species in ballast water samples. 
"We can then derive a risk assessment for individual ships entering the Great Lakes, based on the past ports of call of each ship, the species known to occur in those ports and the presence of any species detect­ed by this hand-held genetic probe," Lodge said. 
In the fmal phase of the proj­ect, researchers will use net­work modeling to select several pilot locations that will most cost-effectively slow the spread of targeted invasive species. The project team will test the effectiveness of a series of intervention strategies, includ­ing educational activities, inspections and boat washing stations to help slow the spread of invasive species already established, but still spreading, among inland lakes and rivers. 
Lodge points out that the forecasting and prevention effort involves a diverse team consisting of researchers, pri­vate stakeholders, relevant industries and state and feder­al agency partners. 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, August 29, 2006 
ROTC 
continued from page 1 
throughout the year. At the start of the school year, seniors -who have already completed camp -serve as mentors to those getting ready. 
Masapollo said Notre Dame consistently produces cadets that score high above the national average. 
Field training in Michigan, one of the many training steps, allows leaders to create camp­type situations to teach and test the students. Masapollo said these leaders are like a "coaching staff" that prepares the team by incorporating "game-like scenarios." 
Battalion executive officer Ryan Larson recently complet­ed LDAC and attained the cov­eted Recondo Badge -an honor awarded to a small number of camp graduates who exceed standards in all areas. 
"Our curriculum focuses on all the right things, most notably those aspects most pertinent to LDAC success," he said. 
Back on campus, Larson and returning cadets are able to make small changes to every­day practices to. strengthen the battalion's success. Air Force ROTC must success­fully complete field training after sophomore year. This program combines basic train­ing with leadership develop­ment where detailed evalua­tions affect future placement. 
The rigors of field training include strict schedules, intense diet and exercise regimes and high standards of military decorum. The demands often lead to a large number of students failing to complete the camp. 
Notre Dame AFROTC pre­pares cadets with labs that range from training and camp life to physical demands -and even drills on how to properly make a bed. Such training is a stepping stone to leadership positions for juniors returning to campus. 
"Notre Dame has a good rep­utation not only as a school, but also as a unit that is looked up to," said Captain Amy 

Bellenbaum, commandant of cadets. 
Senior John Paul Adrian, cadet wing commander, is one such example. Upon comple­tion of field training; Adrian qualified to return as a train­ing assistant and earned first place in the process. 
"It was an absolutely great experience," he said. "I wish I could go back." 
Bellenbaum said cadets like Adrian who return to assist are "treated with respect on the officer level." 
For those in Naval ROTC, structured summer programs evolve from year to year, beginning with a four-week indoc­trination into 
Service selection relies on a performance formula com­prised heavily of GPA followed by extracurricular involve­ment. Notre Dame students succeed as officers, as the University is known for pro­ducing technical advanced midshipmen, Neller said. 
The University's close rela­tionship with the Navy goes back to World War II when ­at its peak -1,100 officers were commissioned every 90 days. At the time this number was second only to the United States Naval Academy. 
Neller praised the caliber of Notre Dame students and said 
half of' NROTC stu­
dents study abroad 
-something the 
program encour­

naval life "Summer cruises ... ages. 
after fresh­Junior computer
are invaluable because 
man year. engineering major Midshipmen you are in the actual Chris Babcock suc­spend a week fleet and get first hand cessfully combined 
in each of the Naval duties with
experience that a
various out­international study 
lets of the textbook or PowerPoint as he spent almost Navy, includ­cannot convey. four weeks on USS ing one week Mustin and trav­with the eled to London for
Chris Babcock

Marine the engineering Corps. junior study abroad pro­
Sophomore and junior summers are spent on a cruise anywhere in the world on a variety of Navy vessels with responsibilities growing with experience. Midshipmen learn rank, military lifestyle, and, as junior officers, hone seamanship skills. 
Foreign exchange summers are also an option. Senior Erin Smith, naval battalion com­manding officer, worked with the French Navy. 
"We get to learn how our allies run things, learn what they have to offer and share our perspective," she said. "Despite the language barrier, I observed differing relation­s hips among officers and enlisted men compared to the 
U.S. Navy." 
Captain Mike Neller said summer training is important because it is hard to replicate life in the fleet at Notre Dame. 
"Midshipmen go out and experience it for themselves," he said. "It puts everything in perspective." 
gram. 
"Summer cruis­
es, which are our 

internships for the military, are invaluable because you are in the actual fleet and get first hand experi­ence that a textbook or PowerPoint cannot convey," he said. 
Unique experiences to the Marine Corps include Mountain Warfare training in Bridgeport, Calif. and Officer Candidate School (OCS) in Quantico, Virginia. OCS is a commission­ing requirement. 
"Midshipmen mature a great deal because of interaction with active duty Marines, shared pride in what they are doing and [in! garnering expe­rience," Major Tyrone Theriot said. 
Theriot said program strengths are a testament of the "high caliber students that Notre Dame admits, as well as the individuals who are com­mitted to serve their country." 
Contact Bridget Keating at bkeating@nd.edu 
in talks with landlords to find ways to keep cars safer


Thefts 
continued from page 1 
mended I not keep anything of value in my car and just leave the doors unlocked," Houser said, adding that his roommates' unlocked car was next to his and was untouched. 
In an e-mail to Oakhill Condominiums residents Monday, property manager Sherry Scott warned that "the NO school season is upon us and the local NO perimeter is overcome with a rash of vehicle break-ins." 
on Bulla Road were broken into last week, compelling site manager Susan Miller to warn residents about leaving anything of value in their cars. 
"If you see anyone that looks like they do not belong here, please call 911 and ask for the Sheriff's Department," rytiller said in an Aug. 24 e-mail to resi­dents. 
The St. Joseph County Sheriff is handling the case, and there are currently no suspects, said Rodney Ludwig, director of residen­tial property management for Real Estate Management Corporation, which manages Stadium Club Condominiums. 
Many property managers have told residents these types of break-ins happen around campus at the begin­ning of every school year. 
"The students return and don't completely unpack their cars, making it very tempting for the criminal element," Ludwig said. 
Some students have been 
Two cars "Ifall students look out an e-mail to 
were broken out for each other, fellow Stadium into at the Club residents
there should be very
South Bend asking them if Avenue com­few problems." they would like plex Thursday, to participate and one car in a neighbor­
Rodney Ludwig 
was broken hood watch

director of

into Sunday program after 

residential property
morning. she was 
Two cars at management approached by Stadium Club Real Estate a St. Joseph Condominiums County Police

Management 
Office'r last week following the break-ins. 
"He asked me if there was some way to get the resi­dents together to discuss safety and learn to recognize suspicious acts in order to prevent future break-ins," Mahoney wrote in an Aug. 28 e-mail. 
The officer said he was willing to put together a pro­gram for residents if they were interested, Mahoney said. 
Oakhill residents were also approached with the idea of continuing with a neighbor­hood watch program. 
"The last meeting we had only had a handful of resi­dents attend. We need more interest in keeping our neighborhood safe from intruders," Scott wrote in her e-mail. "The Board of Directors and I will be view­ing a working surveillance system to see if it is a feasi­ble investment for Oakhill at around $'20,000." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
led the Task Force on Student Voice and Input -a committee which CLC members reinstated this year. 
The Task Force on Student Voice and Input looked at stu­dent activity within the University and explored the pos­sibility of an online application system for students who want to be involved in committees. 
Carroll rector Father Jim Lewis reintroduced a concern mentioned at the final CLC meet­ing last spring regarding student alcohol abuse, gambling habits and pornography in male resi­dence halls. The other members agreed to address these prob­lems through the Conduct Awareness task force. 

Welsh Family rector Candace Carson also restated the con­cerns she brought up at last year's final meeting and suggest­ed the creation of a task force dealing with residence hall­related programming activities. She wants to work with the University to facilitate catering events and develop contacts with University-approved vendors for things like dorm T-shirts. 
The council considered nam­ing the new committee the Student Goods and Services Task Force, but changed it to Student Concerns to encompass a wider range of issues. 
Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs G. David Moss suggested the creation of a stu­dent safety task force in light of the recent assaults committed against Notre Dame students on Notre Dame Avenue and in a Turtle Creek apartment. Shappell ended the meeting with a discussion of these events, which she called "appalling." 
"I want to discuss how we bet­ter arm our students with the knowledge of how to keep [themselves] safe off-campus," Shappell said. 
Off-campus senator Mark Healy suggested approaching the problem on two fronts. 
He said the CLC can communi­cate safety advice to students in print or through e-mail and coordinate with Notre Dame Security/Police and the South Bend Police Department to pre­
vent future dangerous situa­tions. 
The problem of student safety is just as great on campus as it is off, Carson said. She said the location of her dorm makes her residents even more vulnerable. 
"Everyone thinks Welsh Family is a public facility," Carson said. "I can't tell you how many times I've escorted people out of my hall." 
The Task Force on Student Safety will remain an ad-hoc committee until members agree about its usefulness. 
Dillon rector F<j,ther Paul Doyle asked committee members to think about using the task forces to "capture the energy" that per­vades the Notre Dame campus this year in light of the promis­ing football season and a second at off-campus residences. 
"The most important thing we do is to advise our stu­dents to remove all valuables from their cars and be aware of any suspicious activity," Ludwig said. "Of course, we advise them to contact the Sheriff if they notice any suspicious activi­ty. If all the students look out for each other, there should be very few problems." 
Ludwig said he is in the process now of trying to assign more security to the Stadium Club property. 
Senior Caitlin 
Mahoney sent 
upcoming academic forum. 
Faculty Senate representative 
and professor Kelly Jordan 
agreed with Doyle. Notre Dame 
is going to receive a lot of atten­
tion this year, he said, and now 
is a good time to "generate syn­
ergy" and look outwardly to 
address global health issues. 
With the rest of the country -watching, Notre Dame students 
should show they are interested 
in events beyond campus, 
Alumni senator Danny Smith 
said. 
"We should open ourselves up 
and really show that we are con­
cerned about what's going on, 
not just here, but everywhere 
else," Smith said. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

High ~chool Ambassadors: visit your high school during Fall or s break and spread the word about ND; contact hsa@nd.edu






EA6ER TO 
e-lriSh: write articles about your experience at Notre Dame for prospective students; contact mcawley@nd.edu 
Phone Center: welcome admitted students and answer questions
OlUNTEER? 
. . 
contact morourkl @nd.edu
6N UP WITH THE ADMI~~ION~ OffiCE 

~tudent Hospitality Program: host admitted students overnight orLOOK fOR U~ AT ACTIVITIE~ NIGHT during the day; contact hosting@nd.edu 





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, August 29, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVEftS WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Shiite, Iraqi forces clash; 40 dead 
DIWANIYAH, Iraq -Shiite militiamen bat­tled Iraqi forces for 12 hours Monday, leav­ing at least 40 people dead and underlining the government's struggle to rein in an anti­
U.S. cleric. The U.S. announced nine soldiers killed over the weekend in separate fighting. 
The fighting in this southern city dominat­ed a day that saw at least 19 people die in two suicide car bombings in Baghdad ­one outside the Interior Ministry and one on a line of cars waiting for fuel at a gas sta­tion. 
Diwaniyah, 80 miles south of Baghdad, is a Shiite-dominated city where the influence of firebrand cleric Muqtada al-Sadr's Mahdi Army has been gradually increasing. The militia already runs a virtual parallel gov­ernment in Sadr City, a slum in eastern Baghdad. 
Britain seeks suspect's extradition 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -Pakistan is con­sidering a British request for the extradition of Rashid Rauf, who was arrested earlier this month in connection with the alleged plot to blow up U.S.-bound jetliners, the Foreign Ministry said Monday. 
Rauf -earlier identified by Pakistan as a "key person" in the plot -was being inves­tigated for alleged links with al-Qaida, in connection with terrorist threats in Britain and in Pakistan, said ministry spokeswoman Tasnim Aslam. 
Aiden Liddle, a spokesman for the British Embassy, confirmed it had submitted the extradition request, but said it was in con­nection with a British investigation into a 2002 murder. Rauf moved to Pakistan short­ly after his maternal uncle was stabbed to death that year. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Florida residents stock up for storm 
MIAMI -Florida residents rushed to fill their prescriptions and stood in long lines for gasoline, food and other supplies Monday as officials warned people not to wait for Tropical Storm Emesto to become a hurricane again before tak­ing precautions. 
Forecasters said Emesto could grow back into a hurricane in the warm waters off Cuba and come ashore in South Florida as early as Tuesday night, exactly one year after Hurricane Katrina pummeled the Gulf Coast. 
"Make sure you have the supplies for the 72 hours after the storm," Gov. Jeb Bush warned people in Tallahassee, a day after declaring a state of emergency for all Florida. "A hurricane's a hurricane, and it has a devastation we've already seen. All you have to do is rewind to last year and see." 

Court acquits mother of son's suicide 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. -The Connecticut Supreme Court on Monday overturned a moth­er's conviction on charges that she contributed to her 12-year-old son's suicide by keeping a filthy house. 
In ordering the trial court to acquit Judith Scruggs of Meriden, the court said the law used to convict her was unconstitutionally vague. 
Scruggs was convicted of risk of injury to a minor in 2003, a year and a half after her son, J. Daniel. hanged himself with a necktie in his clos­et. Legal experts said it was thought to be the first time a parent had been convicted over a child's suicide. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Plane crashes into pond; pilot dead 
INDIANAPOLIS-A small plane narrow­ly missed homes as it crashed in a subdi­vision's retention pond Monday, killing the pilot, but residents rescued the three pas­sengers as the aircraft filled with water. 
The residents pulled out all four people in the single-engine plane, but the pilot, Indianapolis oral surgeon Robert Edesess, died at a hospital. He and two family members aboard were survivors of the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami. 
LEBANON 


Kofi Annan calls for cease-fire 
U.N. chief urges Hezbollah to free captured soldiers, Israel to lift blockades 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan faulted both Israel and Hezbollah on Monday for not living up to key sections of the cease-fire resolution, while two more countries took steps to provide troops for an expanded peacekeeping force to secure the truce. 
Germany, meanwhile, hinted it was negotiating a prisoner swap. 
Sitting beside Lebanese Prime Minister Fuad Saniora, Annan demanded Hezbollah return two cap­tured Israeli soldiers, whose July 12 abduction touched off the 34-day war, and said Israel must lift its air and sea block­ade of Lebanon. 
Although Annan was critical of both sides, he also said the agreement provided a chance for a long-term peace. As the cease-fire held for the 15th day, neither side looked like it wanted to resume large-scale hostili­ties. 

But the U.N. chief cau­tioned the road ahead would be long, and pledged the international community's support. As part of that support, Italy and Turkey moved to join the U.N. peacekeeping Beirut. He was greeted by bodyguard after some in Lebanon to disarm the force in southern giant posters with photo­the crowd mistook him for Shiite guerrillas of Lebanon. graphs of Hezbollah chief Jeffrey Feltman, the U.S. Hezbollah without the 
Annan also said the U.N. Hassan Nasrallah and one ambassador to Lebanon. agreement and participa­force, which is to grow to that had a caricature of Earlier, Annan issued an tion of those two govern­15,000 soldiers, will not Secretary of State unexpectedly blunt ments. try to disarm Hezbollah Condoleezza Rice with assessment of the cease­Israel responded quickly guerrillas. vampire's teeth and blood fire and its implementa­and negatively to Annan's 
"Down the line ... there dripping from the mouth. tion by Israel and call for an end to the will have to be disarma­The U.N. chief, accom­Hezbollah. blockade, which is intend­ment, but it's up to the panied by Saniora and a "It's a fixed menu.... It's ed to keep arms from Lebanese government and Hezbollah legislator, not an a la carte menu being shipped to people to resolve them­walked for about 50 yards where you choose and Hezbollah. selves," Annan said. "The before the protest became pick," he said at the end An official in the office [peacekeepers] are not noisy and unfriendly. of the first day of his 11-of Prime Minister Ehud going to go house to house Annan got back into a car, day Mideast swing that Olmert reiterated that the searching for weapons. which drove slowly will include stops in Iran blockade will remain until This is not their responsi­through the assembled and Syria, the main back­the international force bility." residents with security ers of Hezbollah. takes up positions along 
Annan was booed by men running alongside. It was not known what Lebanon's borders and residents as he toured the Geir Pedersen, Annan's Annan would discuss with entry points. l-Ie said devastated Dahiyeh neigh­personal representative, the leaders of Syria and Hezbollah continues to try borhood in the Hezbollah was pushed into another Iran, but it would be to smuggle weapons into stronghold of south car in the motorcade by a extremely difficult for the country. 

Prosecutor: Karr's DNAnot a match 
Associated Press didn't commit. further investigation, saying he might 
"The people would not be able to have otherwise fled and may have been 
BOULDER, Colo. -Prosecutors establish that Mr. Karr committed this targeting children in Thailand a.'i well. abruptly dropped their case Monday crime despite his repeated insistence Lacy said Karr emerged as a suspect against John Mark Karr in the slaying of that he did," District Attorney Mary in April after he spent several years JonBenet Ramsey, saying DNA tests Lacy said in court papers. exchanging e-mails and later telephone failed to put him at the crime scene The 41-year-old schoolteacher will be calls \\>ith a University of Colorado jour­despite his insistence he sexually kept in jail in Boulder until he can be nalism professor who had produced assaulted and strangled the 6-year-old sent to Sonoma County, Calif., to face documentaries on the Ramsey case. beauty queen. child pornography charges from 2001. According to court papers, Karr told 
Just a week and a half after Karr's The district attorney vowed to keep the professor he accidentally killed arrest in Thailand was seen as a pursuing leads in JonBenet's death: JonBenet during sex and that he tasted remarkable break in the sensational, "This case is not closed." her blood after he injured her vaginally. decade-old case, prosecutors suggested Karr was never formally charged in The Denver crime lab conducted DNA in court papers that he was just a man the slaying. In court papers, Lacy tests la.'it Friday on a cheek swab taken with a twisted fascination with defended the decision to arrest him and from Karr but were unable to connect JonBenet who confessed to a crime he bring him back to the United States for him to the crime. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, August 29, 2006 
Break 
continued from page 1 
winter and spring break semi­nars. During fall break, stu­dents will participate in the Appalachia Seminar, the Gospel of Life Seminar, the Cultural Diversity Seminar. the Lives in the Balance: Youth, Violence, and Society Seminar or the Washington D.C. Seminar. 
Senior Matthew Hughes, who participated twice in the fall break Appalachia Seminar, now works with the seminar's task force. 
Hughes said he has made a few changes to this year's sem­inar, incorporating the CSC's yearlong theme "Economic Justice for All" while remain­ing focused on Catholic Social Teaching -an essential ele­ment of all CSC seminars. This year's participants also will take a closer look at some of the economic issues within Appalachia. 
Due to the academic nature of the seminars, the deadline for submitting an application 
for a fall break service trip was last Thursday. Participants must complete classes, reading assignments, reflective papers and a final research paper. 
"In the fall the participants tend to be upperclassmen because of their familiarity with the CSC's seminars," Hughes said. "We'll have more freshmen in the spring as they become more aware of all the CSC otTers." 
Junior Caroline I-lonsa volun­teered at the Catholic Workers' Home in Cleveland over winter break and observed the strug­gles of poverty firsthand, a touching experience that she said inspired her to apply for the Appalachia seminar over fall break. 
"During one evening, a woman drove up in a car to let the volunteers know that a refrigerator had broken in a nearby store and free meat was available," Honsa said. "I was touched that she bothered to tell them. I learned more fully that there are small opportunities to serve all around us and we just need to keep our ears, eyes, and hearts open in order to hear the call." 
esc seminar students are not only volunteering to help others but also tackling social and political issues. 
"With the anniversary of Hurricane Katrina upon us, these seminars give students the opportunities to ask ques­tions we need to be asking, especially at a Catholic univer­sity," said Father Bill Lies, director of the CSC. "We take the chance to ask questions about social responsibility, and all seminars ask these ques­tions in different ways." 
Students participating in the Washington D.C. Seminar will observe advocacy groups and elected officials to promote international peace and stabil­ity. 
"Too often, we are aware of only what's going on under the Dome," Hughes said. "It's important for us to step out­side of our comfort zone and recognize the humanity of the folks we come into contact with." 
Contact Megan Sennett at msennett@nd.edu 

Ivy Tech president to leave after 23 years 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -The presi­dent of Ivy Tech Community College said Monday he plans to step down, the third Indiana public college president this year to announce his departure. 
Gerald I. Lamkin, 70, became president of Ivy Tech in 1983. He helped transform it from a vocational school to the state's eommunity college, whieh enrolled more than 69,000 stu­dents on 23 eampuses this fall, up 7 percent from a year ago. I le plans to step down on June 30, 2007. 
"My time at Ivy Tech has been the most rewarding times of my life," Lamkin said in a news release. "We have made tremendous strides in establish­ing an effective and enriching community college system for the state of Indiana." 
Ivy Tech took over the state's community college system last year. State leaders hope the school will help a higher educa­tion system that traditionally has pushed most students toward more expensive four­year campuses at Purdue and Indiana universities. 
"In order for the state to reach its economic and work force development goals, Ivy Tech must be in a position to provide the training and educa­tion that is needed to prepare thousands of Hoosiers for the jobs of the future," Lamkin said. 
Lamkin is the third Indiana public college president to announce he would step down. 
Martin Jischke said earlier this month that he would retire from Purdue University next summer. Indiana University President Adam Herbert told trustees in January that he would not return when his con­tract expires in 2008. 

Bush marks Katrina anniversary in speech 
President visits Miss., says recovery effort is still in early stages 
Associated Press 
BILOXI, Miss. -President Bush said Monday the huge job of rebuilding from Hurricane Katrina was just beginning a year after the massive storm but expressed hope that the $110 billion of help sent from Washington would be enough. 
Trying to erase the black mark left on his presidency by the administration's sluggish response to Katrina, Bush returned to the first scene he saw a year ago of the storm's devastation. 
Standing on a vacant lot in a working elass neighborhood where trailers and gutted build­ings stand next to newly built homes, Bush pledged the feder­al government would stand with the region as it rebuilds. It's a promise viewed with skepticism by victims still reeling from the storm. 
"A year ago, I committed our federal government to help you," Bush said. "I said, 'We have a duty to help the local people recover and rebuild,' and I meant what I said." 
Of the $110 billion in hurri­cane aid approved by Congress, just $44 billion has been spent. Overall, the administration has released $77 billion to the states, reserving the rest for future needs. 
"Hopefully that'll work. Hopefully that's enough," Bush said after visiting a company that has restarted its business of building and repairing boats. "It's certainly enough to get us through the next period of time." 
Bush focused on the positive, but acknowledged that much remains to be done. 
"It's an anniversary, but it's not an end," Bush said. "Frankly it's just the beginning." 
Asked how long the rebuilding would take, Bush said: "I would say years, not months. On the other hand, the progress in one year's time has been remark­able." 
The weleome Bush received in Biloxi was warmer than the one he is expected to get in Louisiana, where recovery efforts have moved much more slowly. The president ended the day in New Orleans, dining at Mother's Restaurant, a local institution known for its po'boys and red beans and rice, with Mayor Ray Nagin, Louisiana Gov. Kathleen Blaneo and other local leaders. 
Bush and his guests weren't the restaurant's only famous patrons. Actor Rob Lowe was eating there with his family, and expounded on the city's great need. He took a cut in pay for his latest TV movie, "A Perfect Day," so it could be filmed in New Orleans and bring business to the area. 
"It's devastating," Lowe said of the conditions in the worst­hit, poorest parts of the city, which he toured the day before. "It's so sad." 
On Tuesday, the actual anniversary of Katrina, Bush has a half-day of events in New Orleans. 
"There is a division over there," Thomas "Lynn" Patterson, who gave Bush a tour of his new home in Biloxi, said about New Orleans. "There's not the same division over here." 
When Bush visited Patterson's neighborhood right after the storm, the 61-year-old was dig­ging cars out of the muck. Patterson said Bush told him then that he wanted to make sure that people got the aid they needed. 
"He hasn't forgotten it," said Patterson. "We don't expect him to pull out his wallet and write a check for us. He personally would do it if he eould beeause he's a passionate guy." 
When Katrina struck Biloxi, 100-mph-plus winds and a wall of water obliterated a bridge and splintered houses like matchsticks. Water topped rooftops. Entire neighborhoods were washed away. 



Confusion led to Ky. crash 
Associated Press 

LEXINGTON, Ky. Investigators in the Comair jet crash that killed 49 peo­ple are looking into whether changes made to a taxiway during a repaving projeet a week ago confused the pilot and caused him to turn onto the wrong runway. 
Federal aviation officials said Monday they were also looking at such things as runway lights, markings and signs for clues to what could have misled the pilots, as well as anything else that changed the configuration or appearance of the airport. 
Both the old and new taxi­way routes cross over the short runway where Flight 5191 tried to take off before crashing into a grassy field and bursting into flame, Airport Executive Director Miehael Gobb told The Associated Press. 
"It's slightly different than 
Soo a cornpany Hko 
it used to be," said Charlie Monette, president of Aero­Tech flight school at the air­port. "Could there have been some confusion associated with that? That's certainly a possibility." 
It was unclear whether the Comair pilots had been to the airport since the changes to the taxi route. 
Lowell Wiley, a flight instructor who flies almost every day out Lexington, said in an interview that he was confused by the redirected taxi route when he was with a student Friday taking off from the main runway. 
"When we taxied out, we did not expect to see a barri­er strung across the old taxi­way," Wiley said. "It was a total surprise." 
Investigators planned to use a high truck to simulate the pilots' view of the run­ways and taxiways in their efforts to determine why the jet turned onto a shorter runway before dawn Sunday. The lone survivor was a criti­cally injured co-pilot who was pulled from the cracked cockpit. 
Authorities also planned to prepare a full report on the pilots, including what they did on and off duty for sever­al days before the crash, which was the worst U.S. plane disaster since 2001. 
All discussions between the plane and the control tower were about a takeoff from the main strip, Runway 22, which is 7,000 feet long, National Transportation Safety Board member Debbie Hersman. 
Somehow, the commuter jet ended up on Runway 26 instead -a eraeked surface about 3,500 feet long that forms an X with the main runway and is meant only for small planes. Aviation experts say the CRJ-100 would have needed 5,000 feet to get airborne. 
no cthor. See wr1ere risk-·tal<:ing is applaucieci. 

See n worlcJ of cpportunHy. See the r1ip new trlino. Seo tt1o 
now stylo. See your futuro. See yoursoll in reel. SE:Jo you soon. 
See Yourself at ® 
See us tonight at Legends of Notre Dame to learn rnore about full-time leadership and internship opportunities. 
lnfonnation Session: 
• 
Tue, Aug 29, 7-9 pm 

• 
Legends of Notre Dame 


For updated information about campus events and how you can interview for Target leadership positions, check with your career center or go to 

Target.com/careers 
Target is an equal employment opportunity employer and is a drug· tree workplace. 


~ ----~~-~~. 
Tuesday, August 29, 2006 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

11,352.01 +67.96

jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,291 /38 979 1,834.917,9/6.00 

AMfX ········I·i~i;.8I.Jiliri!iitill•• 
NASDAQ 2 160.70 +20.41 
NVSE. "':~:liaL+ ./iiii·t!ililllllfllli·llil~~f·lilllll.!l:l
S&PSOO 1,301.78 +6.69 
NIKKEl(tOI<yo)':n·ir!\I~!MIIIi!!lllliiJ'I!Itll•lll' 
FTSf IOO(London) 5,878.60 +9.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  +0.76  +0.29  38.61  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +2.54  +0.48  19.38  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +1.44  +0.07  4.92  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.39  +0.10  25.95  
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU)  +2.71  +0.07  2.65  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0. I 3  +0.006  4.797  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.10  -0.005  4.960  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.04  +0.002  4.934  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.34  +0.0 16  4.770  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.90  70.61  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -6.90  623.90  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.08  88.58  
Excho  Rates  
YEN  117.0400  
EURO  0.7809  
POUND  0.5273  
CANADIAN$  1.1109  

IN BRIEF 
Rates decline at Treasury Bill auction 
WASHINGTON -Interest rates on short-term Treasury bills fell in Monday's auction, with the six-month bill dropping to the lowest level since mid-June. 
The Treasury Department auctioned $17 bil­lion in three-montli bills at a discount rate of 
4.960 percent, down from 4.975 percent last week. Another $16 billion in six-month bills was auctioned at a discount rate of 4.970 percent, down from 4.975 percent last week. 
The three-month rate was the lowest since these bills were at 4.925 percent on July 10. The six-month rate was the lowest since 4.925 per­cent on June 12. 
The discount rates reflect that the bills sell for less than face value. For a $10,000 bill, the three-month price was $9,874.62 while a six­month bill sold for $9,748.74. 
Separately, the Federal Reserve said Monday that the average yield for one':.year Treasury bills, a popular index for making changes in adjustable rate mortgages, fell to 5.07 percent last week, down from 5.10 percent the previous week. 
Detroit teachers reject contract, strike 
DETROIT-Teachers overwhelmingly rejected a two-year contract proposal by the city public school district on Sunday and decided to strike. 
The Detroit Federation of Teachers, which rep­resents 9,500 employees, said teachers plan to demonstrate at their schools Monday, the day they were scheduled to report to work to prepare for the beginning of the school year. 
Classes are scheduled to start Sept. 5. Negotiations were expected to resume Monday. 
"If I have to hold all the hearings personally and do nothing else for the next two months, I'll do that," Detroit Public Schools Superintendent William Coleman III told reporters Sunday. 
Union president Janna Garrison said some of the district's proposals included a 5 1/2 percent wage reduction and copays for health care bene­fits of up to 20 percent. Only two teachers out of nearly 6,000 voted to accept the district's propos­al, the union said. 
"The vote of the membership confirms the position of the leadership," Garrison said in a statement. "Teachers are not willing to continue absorbing the cost of the district's mismanage­ment any longer." 
.-----:-------;-;:--;-----:------------------.-,-.-,-, ... 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Google, eBay to advertise jointly 
New calling servicefacilitates online shopping; Internet giants hope to expand market 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -In a 
deal between two of the 
Internet's most prominent 
properties, Google will 
begin selling advertising for 
Web auctioneer eBay out­
side the United States and 
help buyers quickly ring an 
online merchant to do busi­
ness. 
The arrangement announced Monday promis­es to introduce "click-to­call." Web site technology to a broader audience and potentially speed its adop­tion as a means of more quickly connecting online consumers with advertisers. It will allow potential buy­ers to call eBay merchants or Google advertisers by clicking a link on a Web page. 
"We have a chance to cre­
ate a whole new way for 
buyers and sellers to con­
nect online and to create 
what we hope will be a sig­
nificant revenue stream for 
both eBay and Google," 
eBay Inc. Chief Executive 
Meg Whitman said in an 
interview Sunday night. 
Google Inc. CEO Eric 
Schmidt said the agreement 
with eBay is "likely to go on 
for many years," but he 
would not disclose the 
terms of the deal or what it 
might mean for the 
Mountain View-based 

search engine's bottom line. The deal represents the an Internet ad. Skype. Google has its own 
Whitman said eBay does latest advertising win for Its advocates, including messaging and Internet­
not expect the partnership Google. Earlier this month, some merchants who have based telephone service, 
to affect its .financial per­News Corp. agreed to make tried it, say customers who Google Talk. Both services 
formance this year or next. Google the exclusive search call are ready to buy and will be used in the partner­
Under the partnership, partner for most of its sites, aren't just browsing the ship, though details were 
Google will become the including the popular Internet; thus, search not disclosed. EBay does 
exclusive provider of text online hangout engines can charge more -plan to rely on Google's 
advertising on eBay outside MySpace.com. Late last $2 to $10 or even more per international presence to 
the United States. In May, year, Time Warner Inc.'s call, compared with less build a worldwide market 
eBay announced a deal AOL agreed to sell a 5 per­than $1 per click with tradi­for Skype. 
with the No. 2 Internet cenf stake to Google in a $1 tional search ads.Google Promoting "click-to-call" 
search engine, Yahoo Inc., billion deal that extends alr!3ady has been testing a advertising was also part of 
to serve all its domestic and deepens the ties program in which users the deal eBay announced 
advertising. between the two. click on a phone icon and with Yahoo in May. Yahoo 
Whitman said eBay decid-· The click-to-call compo­type their number into a also has been testing the 
ed to give Google's advertis­nent of the new alliance box. Google then dials the concept. 
ers access to its internation­calls for the two Silicon user, who hears ringing San Jose-based Ebay also 
al auction sites after choos­Valley companies to work until the merchant answers. owns PayPal, an online pay­
ing Yahoo for its domestic together on developing a Schmidt and Whitman ment service, and when the 
advertising because of the service that lets Web said they would begin test­company joined advertising 
competing Internet search surfers place telephone ing some of their joint serv­forces with Yahoo, PayPal 
engines' respective calls through their comput­ices early next year. became the preferred pay­
strengths and how they ers or handheld devices Last year, eBay bought ment provider for purchas­
mesh with eBay's assets. when they click on a link in the Internet phone service es made on Yahoo. 

Oil prices decrease; stocks rebound 
Associated Press Investors did get a handM of company near a three-month high. Powering the 
announcements Monday, including index were components Altria Group 
NEW YORK-Wall Street rebounded Google Inc. and auction Web site eBay Inc. and PepsiCo Inc., which touched Monday as energy prices fell on signs Inc. forming an advertising alliance. on historic highs, and Coca-Cola Co. that Tropical Storm Ernesto won't hit Meanwhile, Kinder Morgan Inc.'s coming within pennies of a 52-week the Gulf of Mexico and as investors board agreed to take the natural-gas high. grew optimistic about a series of major pipeline operator private, and Western Other· major stock indicators also economic reports on tap this week. Refining Inc. said it was acquiring advanced. The Dow jumped 67.96, or 
Retail and transportation stocks rose Giant Industries Inc. 0.60 percent, to 11,352.01, recovering as investors believed lower oil prices "The message of this week is 'if a somewhat from last week's loss of 0.86 would help consumer spending. The tree falls in the forest, and there's percent. The Nasdaq composite index, drop in energy prices also massaged nobody there, will it make noise'?'" said also near a three-month high, picked concerns that this week's data on con­Larry Peruzzi, a trader with Mellon up 20.41, or 0.95 percent, to 2,160.70. sumer confidence, job growth, and Financial's The Boston Co. Asset man­Bonds were mostly flat, with the yield manufacturing might show the econo­agement. 'The market is just looking to on the benchmark 10-year Treasury my is slowing faster than expected. head up, not get taken down, and sets note at 4.80 percent from Friday's five­
The market's advance came amid up the table for September." month low of 4.79 percent. The dollar 
light summer volume, which is expect­The Standard & Poor's 500 added was mixed against other major curren­
ed to remain thin until after Labor Day. 6.69, or 0.52 percent, to 1,301.78 -cies, while gold prices fell. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, August 29, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Student loan troubles 
P.O. Box 779. Notte Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESs MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gotrumukkala AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SY~TEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 63!-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DesK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
{574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBsERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infOrmation. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
~ Oblii!CYI:r (USPS 599 2-4000) is publidtcd Monday duo ugh Friday eu:epr during aa.m and \";tC3rion periods. A mbst:ription to The Obs.ervcr is:$\ 00 for one academic y¢:~.r; $55 ~Or on~ liCillC&rcr. 
The Observer is publishtod at~ POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send .ddttss ~maions ro: Notte Dame. lN 46556--o-779 The Observer Periodical pos~ paid at Notn: Dame P.O. Box779 and addirional mailing offic:cs. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, JN 46556-0m 
The Obst:rver is a member ofihc Associared Press. All reproduction rights ue =>V«l. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
-News Graphics Kelly Meehan Jeff Albert Katie Kohler Madeline Nies Joe Piarulli Sports Marcela Berrios Chris Khorey Becky Hogan Fran Tolan Viewpoint Deirdre Krasula Margie Scene Rosmonowski Brian Doxtader Analise Upari 
The student loan problem .has gotten so bad that several major universities, not including Notre Dame, are finally doing something dramatic about it. 
According to the National Student Loan Survey, average undergraduate loan debt in 2002 was $18,900, up 66 per­cent since 1997. Graduate students incurred an added $31,700 in average 

Charles
debt, an increase of 51 
Rice
percent since 1997. Graduates of law or. 
Right or
medical schools car­
Wrong?
ried an average of $91,000 in total debt. 
In response to the problem, several schools are using university funds to reduce or eliminate that loan burden for students with demonstrated need. Harvard does not ask parents earning less than $60,000 a year to contribute to their child's education. At Yale and Stanford, the figure is $45,000. The University of Pennsylvania replaces loans with grants for students from families with incomes under $50,000. Virginia, Brown and other institutions are taking similar steps. 
The most creative is Princeton University. In 2001, Princeton became the first university to replace loans with grants and a campus job for all students qualify-ing for aid. Six hundred seventy­four members (or 55 percent) of the entering class of 2009 received such aid. The average scholarship was $28,100, with $18,900,000 in total scholarship aid. The average family income of aid recipi­ents was $93,950, with 225 below 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

$40,000 and 124 more below $60,000. 
Princeton is smaller than Notre Dame and has a much bigger endowment. Notre Dame's excellent Financial Aid Office tries to help students, including an effort to reduce the loan portion of need-based aid by replacing loans with scholarships. But a major clement continues to be the stu­dent loan. It is fair to suggest that Notre Dame should emulate the no-loan eon­cept openly and aggressively. Notre Dame's undergraduate tuition rate for 2006-07 rose 5.8 percent over last year for a new total of tuition and average room and board (TRB) of$42,137. The rate of increase is lower than in the previ­ous three years, but it is higher than the 
4.2 percent rise in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) from 2005 to 2006. While some belittle the use of the CPI to evalu­ate the rise of college tuition, the CPI does measure what it costs the students and their families to live. In 1978-79, before Notre Dame began its pursuit of Research Prestige, TRB was $5,180. Adjusted for inflation by the CPI, the TRB now would be $16,255 instead of$42,137. 
The federal student loan program began modestly in the 1970s as a supple­ment to means-tested federal grants. It expanded as Congress succumbed to pressure from the universities to finance its research programs on tho backs of the borrowing students. Notre Dame's THB began to skyrocket after it began to describe itself in 1978 as a "National Catholic Hesearch University." Notre Dame followed the lead of the major uni­versities in using the expanding federal loan programs to finance its research enterprise. As the loan limits went up, so did tuition. The universities lobbied for higher loan limits, raised tuition again in response and so on. The process contin­ues in varied forms today. 
Recent studies, including one from last December by Allan Carlson of the Howard Center, document the obvious impact of student debt on marriage and childbearing. A national Creighton University study of young married cou­ples, published in 2000, asked respon­dents to state 42 issues that "might be problematic during the early years of marriage." For all respondents, "debt brought into marriage" ranked third. Among respondents under age 30 and among those married one year or less, it ranked first. 
For very Catholic reasons. Notre Dame should be in the forefront in the war on student-loan debt. Heavy loans narrow a graduate's career, marriage and family options. Examples abound of young lawyers compelled by debt to forego, or leave, lower-paying positions as public defenders, disability advocates and prose­cutors. Alumni in other occupations could tell similar stories. 
Our leaders' pursuit of a Research Reputation has unjustly inflicted this loan burden on non-wealthy alumni of Notre Dame. Our leaders have a duty to relieve that burden at least for present and future Notre Dame students. Notre Dame should be a leader, not a follower, in all"ording its grads the freedom to choose to eontributc to the common good in their career and family choices. 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is on the Law School faculty. He can be reached at 574-633-4415 or rice.l@nd.edu 

The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
What's your prediction for this football season? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

. ~,, t·· tt
S.._._..:u',.,, ...,bJilli ..,. a..• 1,,e~~ .,_ .,...e,r·:~ 
.d.. , ti

toth··e E···~·lor, .... ~ 
VfNW .n~mCObSerYer.c~m I 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"There is only one success -to be able to spend your life in your own way." 
Christopher Morley American writer 

r-----~~--~----~.~-~.~-~.~.--~--------------------------~~07~--------~----------------------~-~-------------------------------------------
TllE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, August 29, 2006 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
An invalid assumption 

William McAuliffe's points on the lack of planning in regard to Iraq ('The War on Errorism," Aug. 25) are occasionally well made, if a bit rhetorically overstated. And though I appreciate the fact that a more benevolent attitude toward the Middle East problem is attractive, I would suggest that he fails to take into account two major issues and involves an assumption that is invalid. 
First, McAuliffe seems to suggest that the fact that the Muslim world hates us is our fault. This is histori­cally incorrect. The Muslim world first invaded Christendom as early as the ninth century. The Muslim world has been opposed to the West as long as it has existed. Though 
U.S. foreign policy may exacerbate this animosity, it in no way causes it. 
Second. McAuliffe suggests in essence, that the liberalization of the Middle East will bring about changes necessary to end the above conflict. Assuming that the Muslim world even wants this, which is highly doubtful, I would offer both Iraq and Palestine as evidence that when given the opportunity to dem-
U-WIRE 
ocratically choose a government, they tend to choose reactionary and backward-looking governments. 
The assumption made is that the Muslim world is, at root, a sane, rational civilization that should be dealt with in the same way that, say, Canada, Britain, or Germany should. Any time spent reading the state­ments of Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad should cast serious doubt on that assumption. 
Though I too believe that our cur­rent solution for dealing with Islamofascism is sub-optimal, I also believe that this is a conflict in which diplomacy and other "soft power" projections are of less value than they would be if dealing with more civilized nation-states. We cannot "gain the trust" of a region that views us as infidels who need to be converted or killed. Any serious for­eign policy suggestion for the region must take that into account. 
Ryan Davidson graduate student off campus Aug. 27 
I'm sorry, but I don't know who you are... 

Well, thank God the school year's starting. It's a clean slate. You get a chance to meet new friends, try new things, and this is the year we decide to study. Seriously, Mom and Dad, we were just finding 
our place the Jake and past four semes-Steve 
ters. 
University of
But in the 
Alabama

midst ofall the 
Crimson JVhite

excitement. there is a terror that is more real than Avian bird flu and more horrifYing than seeing Rosie O'Donnell naked. We're talking, of course, about the "heymans." 
Let us give you an example of when one would show symptoms of the "heymans." You're walking down the Quad, undoubtedly sweating worse than Michael Jackson at an elementary school playground, when you make eye contact with a "stranger" who looks at you as ifhe knows you. 
But do you know him? Hell no. He walks closer, you turn to run, but it's too late. "Hey, Jakel" Ah, crap. You keep walking as ifyou didn't hear him, and then ... the shoulder tap. You turn around, and then the dis­ease sets its deadly course. "Oh. Hey ... man." 
We're only talking about the most awkward situation ever. Everybody's been in it; nobody likes it. It's .worse than someone telling you there's food on your face when you ate three hours ago. It's the feeling Paris Hilton has with every guy she "runs" into. Celibate for a year, Paris? You're not fooling anybody. 
Anyway, this "stranger" comes up and tries to have a conversation with you, and you could swear you've never seen him before. It was awk­ward to begin with, but it'll get 
worse. 
The hardest thing about it is trying to figure out his name. Having a friend helps, but you rarely have one with you when this happens. It always works out that way. 
Howev.er, in case you do have one with you, there are a few loopholes in the "heyman" bylaws in which the "friend" can be ofsome assistance. 
First, the easiest way out is to sim­ply introduce your friend so that he can get his name. 
Two, your friend really has to be somewhere, and you are responsible for it. "Oh, hey. Good to see you ... you know, I hate to just say hello and run like this, but Steve's mother was just plowed by a bus, and I have to get him to the hospital to see her. Take care!" Works every time. 
Now, ifunaccompanied, here's where things can go horribly wrong, because you have to be really cre­ative. We like to start a completely generic conversation like, "Man, I was just thinking the other day about that one time that wejust couldn't quit laughing. When what's-his­name was being so stupid. You re.?Iember? (insert sigh) Good times 
After that awkward moment, see if he has an article ofclothing with a name on it, or ask to see pictures of someone and hope you catch a glimpse ofhis license. 
Finally, when you figure out his name, you'll start using it in every sentence to try to make up for the fact that you forgot. "So, how's the family, Will? Been a long time, hasn't it, Will? Are you serious, Will? Get outta town, Will." Another thing, if 
you see someone you haven't seen in 
a while, it'll either be a quick, point­
less conversation or the longest one 

you've ever had. It's been so long that 
you ask stupid general questions like, 
"So, how are ... things?" 
Two things can happen here. You 
get either, "Ah, pretty good," or the 
floodgates open. These people have 

been waiting for five weeks for some­
one to ask them that, and they 
should actually be in therapy. 
"Yeah, it's been so-so. Grandma 
just passed away, and Janet got in a 
high-speed pursuit, and then Mom 
and Dad got in a huge fight and sep­
arated for a while. Uncle Frank was 
thrown in jail for armed robbery. 
Yeah, he took a shotgun into the 
Kwik-Mart after the factory let him 
go, and his wife took the kids and left 
him after that. But he only got 20 
years with parole because he didn't 
really mean to shoot the guy behind 
the counter, so it wasn't that bad. We 

get to see him on Fridays. How about 
you?" 
You don't want to make him feel 
bad, so you say something like, "I did 
have a really good smoothie the 
other day. It was the lOth one, so the 
next one's free. So I guess things are 
looking up for me ... good talk ..." 
So, best ofluck avoiding the "hey­
mans." We can't promise it won't 
happen to you, but ifyou ask us, they ' must not have been that important if 
you can't remember them, right? 

This column originally appeared in 
the August 28 edition ofThe Crimson 
VVhite, the daily publication at 
University ofAlabama. 

The views expressed in this column 
are those ofthe author and not 
necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
page 9 

A little sign goes a long way 
One and a half million Americans suffer from peanut allergies, many of which are severe and can induce poignant reactions resulting in extreme difficulty in breathing. Such reactions necessitate immediate Emergency Medical care. . 
This weekend, a lack of labeling in North Dining Hall, a bite of a peanut butter cook­ie and a freshman with a tongue beginning to swell and throat beginning to close led to my first trip to the ER this semester as a resident assistant. Spooning multiple tablespoons of Benadryl and giving pats on the back don't always do the trick. 
Regular chocolate chip cookies (without peanut butter) had sat on an identical tray in the identical spot only the day prior to the incident. Yet on Saturday, the seeming­ly identical chocolate chip cookie facade belied the deadly (and not very pleasing to my palate) peanut butter flavoring. 
Signs are not difficult to make. I have them all over my section: Flush the toilet. Turn off the radio. PW is the best dorm on campus. I could help you out NDH, I have some extra construction paper. I'll send a piece over tomorrow -it will say: Peanut Butter Cookies. And in front of the brown­ies with nuts: Contains Nuts. 
OK, I'm not trying to bash the dining hall -we obviously are very lucky to have such a hardworking, friendly, warm staff that serves us daily with a vast array of healthy and enjoyable choices -but that doesn't excuse carelessness. I saw the cookie display again today-bereft of a sign. Let's fix that. Let's help out our veg­ans and vegetarians and lactose-intolerant patrons. Let's make sure peanut-intolerant people aren't closing up their lungs and calling NDSP to drive them to St. Joe's when all they really wanted to do on Saturday afternoon was play section soc­cer. 
As food connoisseurs, preparation artists and friendly card swipers to whom the Notre Dame community entrusts our eat­ing welfare, we have certain basic expec­tations of the dining halls to ensure a par level (or maybe above par) of health and safety for members of the Notre Dame family in their daily eating endeavors. This weekend, that expectation was not met,· but I have confidence that in order to best serve our allergy-burdened fellow stu­dents, NDII will strive to meet this preva­lent, now vocalized, unmP;t need. 
Julie Putnam senior Pasquerilla West Hall Aug. 28 
It takes a village ... 
Ten years ago, a school shooting would have caused wide­spread panic and disbelief. Today, for many people it is a sad reminder of what kind ofsociety we live in. It seems with each passing day we become immune and unattached to the news of 
violence iJ;l our schools. . Staff Editorial Does this decrease the seventy ofthe prob­lem? The answer is not at all. University of School security in itself is a problem. Many Mississippi believe putting thousands ofdollars worth of Dailysecurity equipment, a list that includes metal Mississippian detectors, security cameras and other such things, in a school will help. Does this help the problem, or does it just seem to help? When these security measures fail. what should be done about the problem? Students themselves should be aware oftheir surroundings. They should be keenly alert to what is going on around them, who they are with, who they are surrounded by and many other details. Preventative medicine is the best medicine. We all know children are more observant when it comes to their surroundings than adults. Students should harness this attribute and use it. After school shootings occur, there is always a search for some­one to blame, whether it is teachers, parents or members ofthe local community. The old African proverb reminds ofthat we all have a stake in a child's success and failures. "It takes a village to raise a child." All of these people are instrumental in the upbringing oftoday's youth. We learn our val­ues from our parents, friends, religious beliefs and environment. Why shouldn't all these factors have a stake in what goes right, and wrong, with a child? Each ofthese groups has a responsibility to provide the popu­lace with the best care they are able to muster. Removing any of these groups from the equation is like pulling the base from a house of cards; it has no choice but to collapse. We should strive to work together to keep kids safe. Ifwe say, "It's not my problem," one day it just might be. Why wait until it is one's problem to search for a solution? An ounce ofprevention is worth a pound ofcure. We live in a society that progressively gets worse with each passing day. While we cannot fix every problem, we can try to protect those who sometimes cannot protect themselves. In the view ofthis board, prevention begins with awareness from all ends ofthe spectrum, from the parents to the school administrators, and all people have a stake in ensuring the safety ofthe students in schools. 
This column originally appeared in the August 28 edition of The Daily Mississippian. the daily publication at University of Mississippi. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseroer. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE

page 10 Tuesday, August 29, 2006 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 

Comedic Shakespeare performance no 'Error' 
Summer presentation brings wit, pizazz to ND 



By MICHELLE FORDICE 
Scene Critic 
Summer Shakespeare's interpretation of "The Comedy of Errors" was a splen­did look at the humor in life. 
One of Shakespeare's fastest and most farcical plays, "Errors" is a wonderful respite from the humdrums of reality and the rollicking pace and slight irrev­erence of Summer Shakespeare -the professional theatre in residence at Notre Dame -complement its century bridging humor. 
One of Shakespeare's earliest works, "Errors" takes the premise of mistaken identity between twins from the works of ancient Roman playwright Plautus. The Bard builds on Plautus' original work and turns it into a boisterous play that lets love, jealousy, slapstick and a strong helping of coincidence wreak havoc in the day of several citizens and visitors to the city of Ephesus. 
The play opens as Egeon, an aged merchant of Syracuse, is led to his exe­cution for trespassing on the city of Ephesus and after being unable to pay the 1,000 mark fine for such an offense. The Duke of Ephesus asks him to explain why he allowed himself to fall into this dire, but avoidable, position. Egeon explains that he was a young merchant happily married and blessed with two identical twin sons whom he both named Antipholus. 
For his sons he bought a pair of iden­tical twin boys, whom he named Dromio, so that they could grow up and serve as menservants to his sons. Unfortunately, when returning to Syracuse on a sea voyage, a violent storm sprang up and flung all of his 
family into the sea. save one pair of boys, but his wife, his second son and the second Dromio were lost. Egeon raised his remain­ing son, but lost him years later when he went look­ing for his brother. Now in search of his family he ends 
Egeon managed to 
'Errors' is a wonderful 

Shakespeare's plays,respite fr_om the humdrums "Errors" spans the ages 
ofreality and the rollicking well because it appeals 
to common human ele­
pace and slight irreverence 

ments-no matter how ofSummer Shakespeare exaggerated and impos­complement its century sible they may first 
appear on stage.
bridging humor. 

Ironically, "Errors" 
up in Syracuse, sentenced to death. Moved by the tale, the Duke allows Egeon one day to raise the money to buy his life. 
Meanwhile, Antipholus of Syracuse has unknowingly arrived in the same city as his father along with his man Dromio. He sends Dromio away to deposit some money only to have Dromio return claiming he needs to go home to dine with his wife, of which Antipholus has none. Little does he know, this is not his Dromio, but that of his brother, a prosperous man of the city, who is married. Chaos ensues as the brothers and their menservants are repeatedly mixed and paired with the wrong people, to the point where they think only witchcraft or insanity could explain their situation. 

By the end of the day, man has mis­taken master, wife mistaken husband, and nothing but merry chaos has orchestrated their interactions, but the love of both family and sweetheart set 
all to rights. 
Like most of 
opens not with a laugh or even a smile, but with an imminent execution and story of tragedy. The play is the epitome of using comedy to battle the pitfalls of life. 
This basic concept coupled with the simple appeal of the character's antics allows it to be as entertaining to a 16th century audience as the 21st century audience that sat in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center this August. 
The cast did not hesitate to fall full force into the buffoonery of Shakespeare's play. Led by director William Brown, it blended modern comedic elements to make Shakespeare's humor resound while refraining from diluting the potency of his dialogue with too many gags. 
Still, such touches as having Luciana read Paul's "Letter to the Ephesians" or having the executioner hug Egeon because he feels sorry for him, make this performance a little bit more their own. 
The cast's performance was comple­mented by the work of scenic designer Todd Rosenthal and costume designer Richard E. Donnelly. Both implemented strong colors and mostly simplistic geo­metric patterns that reflected the light­hearted and energetic tone of the play. 
"Errors" was the only one of Shakespeare's plays to follow the three classical unities of Aristotle's "Poetics," and the simple, operational, and bold set maintained a strong "unity of place." As an added bonus, the crew construct­ed a working fountain in the center of the stage with which the actors could make use of to look into, splash and even walk through. 
"Errors" is a wonderfully energizing play and Notre Dame's Summer Shakespeare did it full justice. The audi­ence walked out smiling, thoroughly enjoying a night of Shakespeare. 
While "Errors" finished its run in the DPAC, make sure to catch next year's performances by Summer Shakespeare, which runs from mid-July to late­August. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 



•· 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, August 29, 2006 
page 11 
EMMY WRAP-UP 
Affable O'Brien lights up predictable Emmys 
'24,' ',The Office' take top honors at 58th television award show 
By CASSIE BELEK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
It's official. Conan O'Brien is the Billy Crystal of the Emmys. 
In only his second time hosting the awards show, the late-night personality opened with a comedic montage that put him in the television shows "House," "Lost" and "The Office," did a song and dance number about the sorry state of NBC and kept Bob Newhart in an airtight glass container that would run out of oxygen if the awards ceremony ran over three hours. 
The last shtick was a running joke throughout the telecast, with Newhart pounding on the walls in "panic" during commercial breaks. Fortunately, the show ran on time and Newhart was released in order to present the award for Outstanding Comedy Series. 
After last year's somber ceremony in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, this year's show was filled with light hearted­ness, laughter and Mel Gibson and Tom Cruise jokes. , 
Still, the 58th Annual Primetime Emmy Awards Sunday night were also contro­versial after a revised nomination proce­dure failed to produce the results many expected. The new rules added a step to the nomination process in which a panel of top judges selected the five nominees in each category after voting members had whittled the categories down to 10 or 15 nominees. 
Dubbed "The Lauren Graham Rule" and meant to recognize those who usual­ly go unnoticed, Lauren Graham from "Gilmore Girls" was not even nominated. The new process did work for first-time nominees Charlie Sheen ("Two and a Half Men"), Kevin James ("King of Queens") and Christopher Meloni l"Law & Order: SVU"). Unfortunately, expected nominees such as Edie Falco and James Gandolfini (both from "The Sopranos") were shunned. 
Last year's best series winners "Lost" and "Desperate Housewives" similarly garnered few nominations and were practically shut out. Bven more perplex­ing was the fact that "House," "Arrested Development" and "Scrubs" were all nominated for best series, but their lead actors -Hugh Laurie, Jason Bateman and Zach Braff, respectively -were not. 
That's not to say last night's nominees were not deserving, an issue that presen­ters and nominees Julia-Louis Dreyfus and Sean Hayes jokingly confronted. 
Another phenomenon among this 


year's nominations was the multitude of nominees and winners from cancelled series. Winners who will no longer be seen in their roles included Alan Aida ("The West Wing") for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series, Blythe Danner ("Huff') for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series, and Megan Mullally ("Will & Grace") for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series. 
While accepting her award, Danner quipped, "I guess I have to thank Showtime, even though they have can­celed us." 
Jeremy Piven, a bona fide character actor, won his own statuette for Outstanding Supporting Actor in-a Comedy Series for his portrayal of crazed agent Ari Gold in HBO's "Entourage." In a heartfelt speech, Piven thanked his mother and then kissed his award, rais­ing it to the sky in a tribute to his father. In a post-show interview, Piven reflected on his new Emmy-winning status. 
"No one will look me in the eyes," he joked. "I will have rules. I will live in a celebrity space shuttle and hover around the universe." 
After only one season in her show "The New Adventures of Old Christine," Julia­Louis Dreyfus won the Emmy for Outstanding Actress in a Comedy Series, beating fellow former NBC leading ladies Lisa Kudrow ("The Comeback") and Debra Messing ("Will & Grace"), and 

breaking the infamous "Seinfeld" curse. "Curse this, baby!" Dreyfus exclaimed while accepting her award. 
After three consecutive nominations, Mariska Hargitay finally won Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series for her character Olivia Benson in "Law & Order: SVU." Nominated for an episode in which she talks entir.ely to a voice on a speakerphone, the new moth­er accepted her award with gratitude and joyful tears. 
"When I named my son August I had no idea the month would end like this," she said. 
In perhaps the most shocking upset of the evening, Tony Shalhoub ("Monk") beat favorite Steve Carel! ("The Office") for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series. Shalhoub, who now has four nominations and three wins to his name, expressed disbelief at his victory and his conviction that another actor, no doubt Carel!, was going to win. 
"I would like to feel good, but I feel too numb," he said in a post-ceremony inter­view. "I was convinced it was going in another direction. That other show is so hot right now and he is so on fire -not just in television but in the feature world." 
Other awards went to "My Name is Earl" for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series and Outstanding Directing for a Comedy Series, "The Sopranos" for Outstanding Writing in a Drama Series and "24" for Outstanding Directing in a Drama Series. 
The broadcast featured two touching tributes to entertainment extraordinaire Dick Clark and the late producer Aaron Spelling. Clark appeared to express his thanks after a montage of "American Bandstand" clips. 
"Everybody should be so lucky to have their dreams come true," Clark said, the effects of his stroke still apparent. 
Singer Barry Manilow then appeared on stage -the night before hip surgery -to perform his song "American Bandstand" in a fitting tribute. Shortly after the performance, Manilow won the Emmy for Outstanding Individual 
-Performance in a Variety or Music Program, beating Stephen Colbert, Craig Ferguson, David Letterman and Hugh Jackman. His coup shocked not only him­self, but presenter Stephen Colbert, who later exclaimed, "I lost to Barry Manilow! Barry Manilow!" 
Aaron Spelling's tribute included clips from the opening montages of the televi­sion shows he produced and touching words from Heather Locklear ("Dynasty," "Melrose Place"), Joan Collins ("Dynasty"), Stephen Collins ("7th Heaven") and the original "Charlie's Angels" -Kate Jackson, Farrah Fawcett and Jaclyn Smith. 
"Aaron made TV that simply tasted good," Collins said. 
In the last awards of the evening, "24" took home the trophy for Outstanding Drama Series after finishing its most crit­ically acclaimed season. 
"24" star Kiefer Sutherland also won Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series for portraying federal agent Jack Bauer. 
Steve Carel! may not have won in his own category, but any disappointment soon disappeared when "The Office" won Outstanding Come.dy Series, capping off an exceptional second season after a rocky start in the show's first year. 
Despite the controversy surrounding this year's awards, the Emmys remained an entertaining and rewarding three hours. O'Brien kept the show flowing with gags no doubt pulled from his own comedic genius. 
Old favorites were honored along with some newer talent as Kareem Abdul­Jabbar reveale~ himself to be an Ernst & Young accountant, Bob Newhart lived to see another day and one television sea­son ended to prepare for the new one to begin. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 



-------;---;-:---,-----------~ 

I I 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, August 29, 2006 
MLB 

Mets use little ball to dismantle Phillies, 8-3 
Sanchez leads Pittsburgh over Chicago with three hits; Cleveland beats Toronto behind Sizemore's hot bat 
Associated Press ing 47th homer and Pat Burrell Manuel was ejected by Marsh had a two-run drive for after he came out to argue. He 
NEW YORK -The New York Philadelphia. Howard homered stayed in the infield to argue a Mets have won a lot of games in all three games of the series little more before retreating to this season with their power. and has seven homers in his the dugout. They showed once again last 15 games against the Mets. "I just looked at it 10,000 Monday that they don't need to "We made a couple of little times in there," Manuel said go long to win, parlaying a dis­mistakes, but little mistakes afterward. "It didn't hit the puted single into a big inning. have been hurting us and they bag. You can see space between 
Carlos Delgado, David Wright did today," manager Charlie it and the bag. We got three or 
and Paul Lo Duca drove in two Manuel said. four different angles on it." runs apiece and the Mets Manuel was ejected in the pushed across six runs in the third inning after an unusual Pirates 11, Cubs 6 third inning of an 8-3 victory sequence led to a reversed call PITTSBURGH Freddy over the Philadelphia Phillies. that hurt the Phillies. Wright Sanchez had three hits to raise 
New York. which had home­came up with runners on first his NL-leading batting average red in nine straight games and third and one out, and to .349, and the Pittsburgh before Monday, has won nine of bounced a pitch from Jamie Pirates beat the Chicago Cubs 1 0 to increase its NL East lead Moyer (1-1) up the line. Third­Monday night in a matchup of to a season-high 15 1/2 games base umpire Randy Marsh said the teams with the poorest over the second-place Phillies. it was foul and Randolph came records in the National League. 
"It's nice to know that you out to argue. Chris Duffy had three hits, can manufacture runs and also The umpires huddled briefly three runs, two RBis and a hit the home run out of the in the infield and changed the stolen base, and Honny Paulino ballpark," Mets manager Willie call, giving Wright an RBI sin­had three hits and two RBis for Randolph said. "It's always nice gle and putting runners on first Pittsburgh, which got 15 hits in to see a different twist every and second. the first five innings, took a 9-1 once in a while, and when we "It's something I've never lead and stopped a three-game attack teams that way we're seen before and might not see losing streak. The Pirates fin­real tough." again," said Wright, who also ished with 19 hits. 
Ryan Howard hit his NL-lead-hit a sacrifice fly in the seventh. Ian Snell (12-8) won despite allowing five runs, live hits and three walks in 5 2-3 innings. 
Derrek Lee, who had been on the disabled list since July 24 because of an inl'lamed right wrist, had a two-run single for the Cubs, and Juan Pierre went 3-for-4 with two RBis. 

Angel Guzman (0-4) allowed eight runs and 10 hits in three­Byrd (9-6) didn't make it out plus innings. lie lost to the Indians 6, Blue Jays 4 of the first inning of his previ­Pirates 8-0 on May 2 in CLEVELAND Grady ous start, getting banged Chicago. Sizemore homered, doubled around for nine runs _ three 
The Cubs (54-87) went ahead twice and scored three runs to earned _ and eight hits at when Pierre hit the third pitch help Paul Byrd bounce back Kansas City on Wednesday. He of the game for his second from a brutal outing, lifting the escaped with a no-decision home run, but Pittsburgh (51-Cleveland Indians over the when the Indians, trailing 10-1 
81) took the lead for good on Toronto Blue Jays Monday after the first inning, rallied to Jason Bay's two-run homer in night. win 15-13. the bottom half. The perpetually hustling This time, the right-hander 
Duffy, Jose Bautista and Sizemore, who in his second stayed around just long enough Sanchez hit RBI singles in the full season has emerged as the to get a cheap win, allowing third. club's best position player, three earned runs and 10 hits 
After Guzman walked Bay leads the league with 75 extra­in five-plus innings. with the bases loaded and no base hits, two more than Fernando Cabrera worked outs in the fourth, Paulino hit a Boston's David Ortiz. two scoreless innings. Rafael two-run single off Glendon Ryan Garko added a pair of Betancourt pitched the eighth Rusch. Bautista's RBI single RBI doubles off A.J. Burnett (6-and Tom Mastny hit a batter in made it 9-1 in the fifth. 6) as the Indians improved to a the ninth, before getting his 
Chicago closed in the sixth on major league-best 14-5 since fourth save in four tries. 
AP Lee's two-run single and Aug. 9. Sizemore's 20th homer put New York Mets shortstop Jose Reyes follows through after hit­Michael Barrett's two-run dou­Reed Johnson had three hits the Indians ahead 6-4 in the ting a triple during New York's 8-3 win over Philadelphia Tuesday. ble, which chased Snell. for the Blue Jays. sixth. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES -needed for 
south side elementary school, local ed near Erskine Golf Course on 
Miami Street. $35.00 per soccer 
game. Call574-291-4200. Now hiring seasonal help. 
Halloween Express, 6502 Grape Road. 502-514-1409. 
I need after school care for my 1 0 year old girl starting late August. Schedule is M-Th 3pm to 6pm. Must have own transportation and 
be non-smoker. Please call631­8456 or email wei.sun.7@nd.edu 
Blue-Gold Shop looking for part-time help on game weekends & throughout the week. Please fax resumes to 574-255-9700 or email 
to Service@ blueandgold.com 
FoR SALE 
Condo for sale 2 bdrm twnhse call 269-445-2765 
Great prices on cool jewelry. visit coolerjeweler.com now! 
Home within walking distance to 
ND. 'Fully remodeled,like-new con­dition. Great neighborhood. 2 bdrms, $78,900. 574-292-1175 or www.bonzerllc.com 
Investment homes for sale near ND. 866-521-8989. 
FoR RENT 
B&B lodging w/alum for ND football games. 574-243-2628 or gary­therese@yahoo.com 
2 rooms in private home w/sepa rate entrance for football weekends. Shared bath. Close to ND. 574-259­8603. 
2-3-4 bdrms. Share w/FRIENDS. 50% off dep. if rented by 10/1. 255­7000. 
Lake home available for all 7 Notre Dame home football games; luxuri­ous Eagle lakefront, sleeps 10, 30 minutes from campus. $1500 per weekend or discount for booking all 
7. Also available Dec.-April. 574­274-0089 
Rent a home ND football week­ends. 574-784-8638 
1-bdrm apt. Quiet historic neighbor­hood. 1 mi. to ND. $500/mo. Call 57 4-283-0325. 
NOW LEASING FOR 2007-2008 STADIUM CLUB CONDOMINIUMS Spacious 2bdrm 2ba. Washer/Dryer. Call Susan Miller at 243-7530. 
Why pay for a hotel when you can have all the comforts of home? Two 1 brm apts. across the hall from each other avail for home games. Queen bed+ futon. 5 min. to ND. $800 each or rent both for $1400. Call today! 574-612-1519. 

BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam­pus homes & weekend rentals. 
Bluegoldrentals.com 
TICKETS 

ND vs Mich need 4 GAs together email datidrschulz@ yahoo.com WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251­
1570 Need 4 ND-PSU tix-75 alum seeks 4 for PSU game 9/9/06. Pis call714 523 0601 or email aherenda@com­
cast. net 

Need ND tix & parking pass all home games. 574-276-8507. A BUSINESSMAN PAYING TOP$$ FOR SEASON TIX OR INDIVID­
UAL GAMES. CALL MARK 574­277-1659. 
AN ACTUAL ABOVE-AVERAGE ABIDING FAN DESPERATELY NEEDS FOOTBALL TIX. ANY OR ALL GAMES. LOCAL CALL 654­
0169. 6 Michigan tix avail for trade for 6 Penn St (only). Seats in 3 pr not 
together. Tix on campus for easy exchange. Call203-273-1463 or david.barnard@ bernstein.com ND alum will trade 2 Army tix for 2 UCLA. 813-978-1001. 00 ND alum seeks multiple ND/PSU tix for my bachelor party trip. Will pay top $$! Please help! Contact Derek at 
dengelkemeyer@hotmail.com 
WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. 
TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726. FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK 
ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232­2378. FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232­0964 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. www.ndgamedayroom.com 

-----------------------------------~-r---..---r--~-,----,--,-----.--·---­
OUND THE NATION 

Tuesday, August 29, 2006 
USA Today Football  
Top25  
team  
1  Ohio Stale  1487  4  
2  Texas.  1378  1  
3  NOTRE DAME  1348  11  
4  usc  1348  2  
5  Oklahoma  1320  22  
6  Auburn  1206  14  
7  West Virginia  1202  6  
8  florida  1054  16  
9  LSU  1037  5  
10  Florida State  874  23  
11  Miami (Fla.)  839  18  
12  California •  798  25  
13  louisville  785  20  
14  Georgia  784  10  
15  Michigan  778  NR  
16 17  Virginia Tech lowa  591 519  1 NR  
18  Clemson  493  21  
19  Penn State  406  3  
20  Oregon  373  12  
21  TCU  270  !J  
22  Nebraska  261  24  
23  Tennessee  216  NR  
24  Alabama  210  8  
25  Texas Tech  198  19  

CSTV / AVCA Volleyball Top 25 
team 2oos record previott,s 

2oos Big Eatt·.•.Volleyball····· Finai•Standlols .• : 
Team cont ·overall 
1 louisllfe 13-t 2 NOTRE DAME . 13~1 3 Syracuse 4~2 4 St. John's 3;3 5 Marquette 3·3. 6 Clnclnnan 3·4 7 Pittsburg 2~3 8 Seton Hall 1·3 
9 UConn 1~3 10 Ge~>rgetown 1,3 11 Rutgers 1·4 12 West Virginia 1•4 13 Villanova 1~4. 
14 USF 0•5 .\ ... :... :: ....:......o: ••• :J'iJ.. . . :.. " .. 15 DePaul 0•3 
around the dial 
TENNIS 
U.S. Open, 11 a.m., USA 
MLB 
Tampa Bay at Chicago White Sox, 
8:05 p.m., Comcast Chicago 

CoMPILED FROM TIIE OBSERVER'S \VIRE SERVICES page 13 
LITTLE LEAGUE BASEBALL 


Associated Press 
SOUTH WILLIAMSPORT, Pa. -Cody Walker hit a two-run homer off ace Go Matsumoto, Ryan Carter struck out 11, and Columbus, Ga., beat Kawaguchi City, Japan, 2-1 to win the Little League World Series championship game on Monday. 
It was the second straight American victory in the Series, coming on the heels of Ewa Beach, Hawaii's win over a team from Willemstad, Curacao last year. The United States hadn't captured back-to­hack Little League titles with different teams since 1982-83 when Kirkland, Wash., and Marietta, Ga., celebrated in Williamsport. 

Long Beach, Calif., was a repeat champion in 1992­93 -the first victory awarded after a Phillipines squad was stripped of the title for using over-age players. 
Matsumoto had devastat­ed hitters in this tourna­ment with his powerful fastball. It was potent again for him on Monday, except for Walker's shot in the third inning that followed a baserunning blunder. 
Carter overcame a bout of wildness in the sixth and fmal inning. With two run­ners on, he got Ryoya Sato to hit a weak bouncer to Josh Lester at second for 
IN BRIEF 
Bonds' trainer faces further 
jail time 
SAN FRANCISCO -Barry Bonds' personal trainer was on his way back to jail Monday after being held in con­tempt of court for refusing to testify before a grand jury investigating the Giants slugger. 
Greg Anderson could remain behind bars for. more than a year while the grand jury investigates Bonds for per­jury and tax evasion, regarding income from sales of his sports memo­rabilia. 
Anderson, who has appeared five times before two federal grand juries without answering pertinent ques­tions, was held in contempt of court for two weeks last month but was released when that grand jury's term expired. 
"Sometimes sitting in the cooler for a long time may have a therapeutic affect and may change his mind," U.S. District Judge William Alsup said dur­ing the rancorous, hourlong hearing, the last out of the game. 
That prompted the Georgia-leaning crowd to erupt in cheers, chant "USA! USA!" and wave American flags. Columbus players rushed toward Lester, skipping up and down in celebration and tossing their gloves to the sky. 
Then they posed on the mound for a group picture with a banner that pro­claimed them "World Series Champions" as their gloves were strewn across the infield. 
Columbus' rally was nearly thwarted by Carter's mistake on the bases. 
Carter took off from first on Lester's single to center but didn't heed the stop sign thrown by manager Randy Morris at third. He was nailed at home for the second out, sliding into the catcher's shin guards well short of the plate. 
It didn't matter, because Walker then hit his oppo­site-field shot over the right field fence. Lester pumped his fist as he rounded third, and Morris got so excited as Walker circled the bases that his hat fell off. Jubilant teammates greeted Walker at the plate. 
A sign in the Columbus cheering section read,. "Georgia, Not Just Peaches." Now, it's also home to the best team in Little League baseball. 

after which authorities whisked Anderson into custody. 
Roddick opens strong at U.S. 
Open 

NEW YORK -Andy Roddick gave a fist pump toward coach Jimmy Connors, and walked off the court with his arms and head held high. This time, he still has more tennis to play at the U.S. Open. 
Roddick bounced back from last year's stunning first-round upset, over­powering Florent Serra 6-2, 6-1, 6-3 Monday and drawing encouraging claps from Connors. 
"It's a lot better than last year, a lot better start," the ninth-seeded Roddick said. ''I'm really confident right now." 
After a 90-minute n!in delay, open­ing day at Flushing Meadows featured an attractive lineup, on and off the blue courts. 
Andre Agassi, sure to be the crowd favorite in his final event, was to play Andrei Pavel at night. Before the match, the National Tennis Center was to be renamed in honor of former star and pioneer Billie Jean King. 
Bourdais  wins  Montreal  
Grand Prix  
MONTREAL  - A  victory  by  

Sebastien Bourdais on a track at which he has struggled might have been the biggest step yet toward the Frenchman's third straight Champ Car title. 
"It was a hell of a day for the championship," the jubilant Bourdais said Monday after winning the Montreal Grand Prix while his closest pursuers in the points failed to finish. 
The race started Sunday in a steady rain, but was halted after six laps because of a downpour at the 
2. 704-mile Circuit Gilles Villeneuve track. A.J. Allmendinger took the lead from pole-winner Bourdais on the second turn when the Frenchman nearly spun off the slip­pery circuit. 

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, August 29, 2006 

NFL Quarterbacks sign with new squads AP Tennessee Titans quarterback Kerry Collins throws a pass for the Oakland Raiders Oct. 30, 2005. Associated Press starter in Oakland the past two -years, but became a salary capKerry Collins and Jeff George casualty saving the Raiders are back in the NFL. $9.2 million. He completed 302 Collins, who spent the last passes for 3,759 yards in 2005 two seasons with Oakland, and 20 touchdowns, but was signed with Tennessee, which sacked 39 times and threw 12 decided it needed more experi­interceptions. ence after trading away Steve The 11-year veteran Collins McNair. has started 145 of 152 gamesCoach Jeff Fisher said Collins and played for Carolina, New met with offensive coordinator Orleans, the New York Giants Norm Chow for about an hour and Raiders. He has thrown for and would be at practice 33,637 yards, 173 touchdowns Tuesday. Fisher said Billy Volek and 166 interceptions in a remains the starter for now, career that includes leadingwith rookie Vince Young back­Carolina to an NFC champi­ing him up while Collins learns onship game and the Giants to the offense. a Super Bowl that they lost to "Billy's got some competi­Baltimore. tion," Fisher said. ''I've spoken "This is a team that I feel I with Billy. Billy's not too awful­can contribute to and make an ly pleased with it. But that's life impact in," Collins said. "I've in the National Football had opportunities to go differ­League." ent places. This was the one George, meanwhile, signed that I've really been targeting.with the Raiders, although he I'm just glad it worked out." hasn't thrown a regular-season George played for the Raiders pass in the NFL since 2001. in 1997-98, starting 23 games.Both are former first-round George played with the Colts draft picks. George was the from 1990-93. He was in first overall pick by the Colts in Atlanta from 1994-96, then 1990 and Collins was Carolina's spent two seasons with first-ever pick, fifth overall, in Oakland and one with 1995. Minnesota before joining the Collins went 7-21 as the Redskins in 2000. Chiefs' Holm.es out for squad's first six contests Diego's Shawne Merriman thatHead injury could caused trauma to the head end Kansas City and neck, and doctors still haven't given him medicalrunning back's career clearance to practice or play. "Obviously, he's not prepared Associated Press to play at this point," said coach Herm Edwards. "You KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Priest never know where his career's Holmes, who hasn't practiced at right now. Only he knows at all in training camp, now that. That's between he and will miss at least the first six the doctor." weeks of the While Holmes regular season was gone, Larry and his career Johnson took his"Obviously, he's not is in doubt. job with a spectac­Kansas City prepared to play at ular nine-game put the three­spurt that ended inthis point." time Pro Bowl a team-record running back on 1,750-yard rushing the physically Herm Edwards season.  Concession Stand Training Part 1: Food Service Training Monday-Wednesday **August 28th-30th **12pn1 & 4pn1 Part 2: Manager Training Monday-Wednesday **August 28th-3oth **12:30pm & 4:30pn1 LaFortune Student Center Ballroom *At leastlwo members ofall groups must attend Food Service Training. (Manager can attend and count as one ofthe two) *At least one member c?fgroup must attend Manager Training. (}}!anger does not have to attend Food Service Training) Questions?Amy Geist StudentActivities Office ageist@nd.edu  

unable to per­Chiefs head coach Under league form list rules, Holmes will Monday. He will be on the PUP list a be out for a minimum of six minimum of six weeks, and weeks, then the Chiefs will then the Chiefs will have 21 have 21 days to activate him. days to activate or release 
Holmes, who turns 33 in him. October, missed the last nine Edwards declined to specu­games of the 2005 season late whether Holmes is at the after taking a hit from San end of his career. 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------~--~,~.----~--~~------~-.----------.--­
Tuesday, August 29, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 
Owens discusses $9,500 fine 
Receiver claims he 'overslept' Friday's team meeting 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas -Terrell Owens overslept. That's it. 
lie insists he wasn't late for work Friday to send a messages to his bosses, test his boundaries or anything else hls critics might think. 
And, get this: He says it'll probably happen again, even if he was fmed $9,500. 
"I think everybody has over­slept, you know, once or twice in their life," Owens said Monday, more amused than angry that a fuss is being made over some­thing that's happened to him before, though not since he's joined the Cowboys. 
"It's not a big deal," he said. "It was not something I purposely tried to do. It's something that I will try to make more of an effort, a better effort, to get here on time. Other than that, it's really not a big issue." 
Jerry Jones agrees, pointing out that some of the most upstanding citizens in team his­tory were fined for similar trans­gressions. 
He also insisted it's a mistake to read more into Owens' tardi­ness. the fine and his lingering hamstring issue simply because of T.O.'s past. 
"From my standpoint, it's all good," Jones said. "Apart from him not being on the field and getting repetitions, has it in any way affected relationships on this team, teammates on this team, relationships between me and Bill, me and the coaching staff, Terrell and Bill, Terrell and the coaching staff? Zero impact there." 

Owens called his tardiness "very unfortunate" and apolo­gized to his teammates. But, he added, ''I've got to move on. I can't let this get me down." 
His tender hamstring is taking care of that. 
Owens missed his 20th work­out of the preseason Monday and is unlikely to play Thursday night at home against Minnesota. The bigger question is whether he'll play the season opener in Jacksonville. 
"I feel like I'm doing above and beyond things to get back on the field, whether a lot of people know that or not," he said. ''I'm doing everything. Sometimes I come in here late at night just doing extra treatment, getting in the hot tub, cold tub.... I think it's sometimes unfair that I'm getting all thls criticism because I'm hurt." 
Whether Owens plays in the opener will depend on when he starts practicing. If he never practices, he definitely won't play the opener _ even if Jones has mentioned that Deion Sanders used to get away with it. 
Parcells said he has to see what Owens can do. And he's not talking about watching high­lights from the last 10 years, as Owens suggested last week. 
"What if he got hurt or didn't perform, what would happen then?" Parcells said. "How would I know he is healthy if he didn't practice? How would I know?" 
Jones said he lets Parcells decide who to play. 
"That's an area I probably could influence, but, no, I have never influenced in my 17 years with the Cowboys as far as who goes in the game and who does­n't and what time they go into the game," Jones said. 
Jones and Parcells declined to comment specifically about the fine, saying it's an internal mat­ter. 
Jones went so far as to say he'd fire whoever leaked the news, "I don't care who it is." 
The Journey 
...an invitation to follow Jesus 
BACK TO SCHOOL PARTI' 
When: Wednesday. August 30th. from 7-9 PM 
Where: Coffee House. Center for Social Concerns (CSC) 
What: Food. Fun. New Friends. Opportunities to 
learn about being involved 
The Alpha course (Mondays, 7:30-8:45 in the esc Classroom) What is it? Alpha is an opportunity for anyone to explore the Christian faith in a relaxed. non-th reateni ng setting over ten 
thought-provoking weekly sessions. with a day or weekend away. Desert and coffee provided. 
The Journey (Wednesdays. 7:30-8:45 in the esc Upper Room) The Journey is our large group meeting and is a catalyst for following Jesus Christ daily. 
Small Groups-The Journey Together Freshman groups are being fonned 
The Journey is sponsored by BCM. Visit us mline at www.nd.edu/-bcm or send us an e-mail at bcm@nd.edu llCM 
page 15 

MLB 
Marlins victorious over Milwaukee, 4-2 

Florida rolls behind strong outing by rookie Johnson 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -J ash Johnson is helping the Florida Marlins fight their way back into the NL wild-card race. 
Johnson lowered his major league-leading ERA to 2.87, and the Marlins extended their winning streak to eight with a 4-2 victory over the Milwaukee Brewers on Monday night. 
Johnson is trying to become the first rookie to lead the major leagues in ERA since Detroit's Mark Fidrych in 1976. 
"If it's there at the end of the year, I'll take pride in that," Johnson said. "For now, I just have to keep going." 
Dan Uggla hit his 20th homer and added a sacrifice fly for the Marlins (64-66), who had not been within two games of .500 since they were 1-3 before losing on April 9. 
Florida began Monday three games behind Cincinnati, the NL wild-card leader, and is one game shy of its longest winning streak of the season. The Marlins start a six-game trip Tuesday at St. Louis. 
"Right now we're having fun, and we're just going to keep rolling with it as long as it will go," Uggla said. "This is the time you need to make a run at it." 
Johnson (12-6) won his third straight decision, striking out seven in a season-high 7 2-3 innings. He allowed two runs and eight hits. Joe Borowski struck out the side in the ninth for his 31st save in 35 chances. 
Milwaukee was swept in a four-game series for the sec­ond time this season, following a wipeout in Pittsburgh from May 29 to June 1. Ben Sheets (4-6) gave up three runs_ one earned _ and six hits in seven innings with six strikeouts. 
"We faced some good pitch­ing, and we didn't do much with it," Brewers manager Ned Yost said. 
Josh Willingham hit a two­out double RBI double in the first, and Florida made it 3-0 with two unearned runs in the fifth. 
Cody Ross was on second when he tried to score on Alfredo Amezaga's single, and left fielder Gabe Gross threw a one-bounce strike to the plate. Catcher Mike Rivera failed to hold onto the ball before Ross ran into him, and Uggla fol­lowed with a sacrifice fly that scored Amezaga. 
"It kind of caught me off guard _the grass here is thin­ner and faster than at home," Rivera said. "I thought I'd have time to get that hop." 
Ross was charged with an error. 
"That play cost us two runs," Milwaukee manager Ned Yost said. "He just dropped it. The throw was there in plenty of time." 
Bill Hall hit his 30th homer leading off the seventh, and Tony Graffanino's RBI single in the eighth pulled Milwaukee to 3-2 and chased Johnson. Uggla homered off Jose Capellan leading off the bot­tom half. 
"We got some bats on the ball but we couldn't muster up a rally," Hall said. "Johnson threw the ball great." 

__.. 
DAYS/NIGHTS DELIVERY DRIVERS SANDWICH MAKERS 
54570 N. IRONWOOD DR. 574.277.8500  
 
JIMMYJOHNS.COM  


'­

CHECK OVl OUR NEW COHECTtONS Of DORM COlLEGE HAPPENS. BE READY, ROOM fURNtTVRf At WAtMART.COM/COllEG~. WAL*MART~ 
Tuesday, August 29, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 

SUMMER BALLPARK TOUR 
BOB 
DYI.fitt 
with JIMMIE VfiUGHfUI cmd )UtiiOR BROWtl 
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 5 MEMORIAL STADIUM FORT WAYHE. ltiDIAtiA 
Home of the Fort Wayne Wizards (only 90 minutes from HO) 
TICKETS Ott SALE HOW fiT ALL TICKETMASTER LOCATIOHS AtiD 



NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS 'W"ANTED BUYING & TRADING 
ALL SEASONS 
ALL GAMES & LOCATIONS 

18 YEARS CONFIDENTIAL SERVICE 
CASH PAID TODAY 
Preferred Tickets 234-5650 
Men's water polo wins two games at Hillbilly Classic in Knoxville 
Special to the Observer 
Field Hockey 
Notre Dame opened its fall season Sunday with a 1-0 vic­tory over Wittenberg in Springfield, Ohio. Although the squad did not have much time to prepare, they came out strong against the Division III varsity Tigers. The Irish con­trolled the field for most of the first half with the only goal coming seven minutes into the game off a penalty corner. Senior Meghan Bennett put a hard shot past the Tigers' goalie with assists coming from Mary Davis and Lauren Petrozziello. 
One goal turned out to be enough as the strong defense led by sophomore goalie Catherine Duffy achieved a shutout. Duffy racked up 15 saves, one coming at the end of the game to shut down a Tigers breakaway. Cat Pinnaro, Jessica Cortez, and Ryan Reynolds led a stellar defensive effort. However, the key play of the game came with two minutes left when freshman Claire Kenney made a spectacular save on a ball behind Duffy to clinch the Irish victory. 
The Irish also tied the Tigers 3-3 in stroke competition fol­lowing regulation with goals by Meredith Gluck, Lauren Petrozziello and Lauren Brinkman. The Irish will con­tinue their season at home on Sept. 10 with a game against the Cincinnati Centurions. 
Men's Water Polo 

This past weekend, Notre Dame traveled to Tennessee to compete in the 2006 Hillbilly Classic. The Irish were seed­ed in a bracket with regional . foe Miami of Ohio and the host Volunteers. Notre Dame began Saturday with an easy victory over the latter, putting down the Vols 19-5. 
Freshman goalie Dave Mazur put in quite a perform­ance in his Irish debut, and continued to do so all week­end. Almost every player on the Irish roster ended up on the scoresheet, as they used their speed and depth to blow NCAA regional]," she said. "We will have to work hard and stay composed all year in that we have a very small and young team. But I think freshmen are going to step up and help us complete our goal." 
Under King, Notre Dame achieved steady improvement in scoring each year, culminat­ing last fall with the team post­ing its lowest scoring average in school history, a 306.88 
CLUB SPORTS 

Field hockey shuts out Wittenberg 
away the Volunteers. 
In its second game, Notre Dame found itself in a hole early on against Miami of Ohio, down 4-0 at the start of the second quarter. However the Irish went on to outscore the Red Hawks 8-3 in the remaining quarters, as co­captain Patrick Connors, the leading scorer on the week­end, slammed home the deci­sive goal with 11 seconds remaining in the game. Great defense by fellow co-captain Jon Kelly on Miami's leading scorer, Ross Pilkin, was the real catalyst for the team, as Miami was constantly frustrat­ed on offense. 
That win sent the Irish into the semifinals to face Purdue. The lr,ish came out firing, as sophomore Tom Fletcher and freshman Craig Bentzen both had great games, scoring goals and drawing kickouts on the Boilermaker defenders. Purdue, however, did not go down quietly, as it fought back to tie the game at 10 apiece. Despite several chances for both teams to score the final goal, the end of regulation found the teams still dead­locked. Due to goal differen­average. This year's squad ­despite the loss of King ­hopes to improve that record. 
"We are ready and can't wait for the season to start," Diaz­Calderon said. "We're very happy and excited and ready to start winning." 
The Cougar Classic begins Sept. 11 in Charleston, S.C. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
Practice 
continued from page 20 
Veltri has stayed positive since the team first found out two weeks ago that King would not remain as coach. 
"[Veltri] has never stopped supporting us and we can count on her for pretty much anything," Maunu said. 
The team will meet today to discuss goals for the upcoming season.. 
"In the past, Coach King set our goals, but this year Coach Veltri wants us to set our goals," she said. 
Maunu said the team expects to make a deep run in the NCAAs this year. . 
"I think team expectations for this year are very high in that we would like to make it to [an tial, the Irish were given the right to go to the final on Sunday afternoon to face their archrival Grand Valley State. 

In the final, the Irish came out flat, and the Lakers took full advantage. Notre Dame ·­fell into a 6-2 hole by the end of the first quarter, and was never able to put itself back into the game, falling by a final of 14-8 to the defending national champions. Senior co-captain Stephen Shepard put away four goals against the Lakers, while Bentzen continued to impress in his debut appearance. 
Sophomore Avery Ambrose scored perhaps the goal of the tournament in this game, fak­ing out three Grand Valley defenders and their goalkeep­er, and deftly lobbing the ball into the net from a very tight angle. 
Sophomore Pete Devine, making his first couple starts for the Irish, also played very well, defending with tenacity and causin_g problems for Notre Dame's opponents. The Irish travel to Dayton next month for a rematch with Grand Valley and their other conference foes. 

page 18 
Exhibition 
continued from page 20 
fellow senior captain Colleen Courtney. 
The scoring kicked off in the second period when freshman Michelle Redinger buried one of the nine shots the team pep­pered the Anderson goal with in the second period. 
In total, the Belles registered 27 shots in the game while holding the Ravens to only five. 
"I think we are headed in the right direction but still have work to do," senior 

goalkeeper "/ think we are headed in vides a con­
Nicole Leach the right direction but sistency in the said. "We program that
still have work to do. We

should have the soccer
should have plenty of

plenty of time team has to get ready time to get ready and never had." and perform MacKenzie's
perform well in our 

well in our consistency
conference. '' 

conference." also extends 
S a i n t to her coach­Mary's opens Nicole Leach ing staff. its season She and
Belles goalkeeper 

Sept. 6 against Albion, but has almost a full 
-month remaining before begin­ning conference play at home against Alma College on Sept. 26. 
After finishing third in the MIAA standings last season, the team intends to challenge league powerhouses Hope and Calvin for the championship in 2006. 
"I think our biggest asset this year is our team versatility," Leach said.-"We picked up a good number of freshmen who are able to play in multiple positions." 
Workouts 
continued from page 20 
Mazur, Jackie Carter, Julie Opet and Amy Kohlmeier are all going to go out and take their shot." 
In addition to these return­ing players, Connelly will look to his incoming freshman class, including Lindsay Ferguson and Molly Sullivan, to help carry the Irish. 
One problem with relying so heavily on the freshmen's abil­ity to compete early in the sea­
The Belles welcome nine freshmen this season, nearly half of their 20-player roster. Redinger and several others have already played, and head coach Caryn MacKenzie said the newcomers are sure to make a serious contribution in 2006. 
With six seniors .. Saint Mary's is also strong on lead­ership. Leach credits MacKenzie, now in her third season, with keeping the sen­ior class together. 
"Coach Mackenzie has really focused the team on becoming one unit on and off the field," Leach said. "She also pro­
assistant 
coach Ramzi Bualuan, who is also a Notre Dame computer science and engineering professor, have coached together at various jobs since the early 90s. 
The MIAA recognized the coach's accomplishments last year by naming her conference co-coach of the year. The Belles have steadily improved since her arrival in 2004, going 9-6-1 in the MIAA her· first year and 10-5-1 in confer­ence last season. · 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
regional. In addition to the high level of talent in the Great Lakes region -which boasted seven teams in the top 30 at last season's NCAA meet -Notre Dame has lost part of the core group of runners that has helped it win three of the last four Big East conference championships, including four top-1 0 finishers in last year's conference championship in The Bronx, N.Y. 
Still, Connelly said if the team can focus on the season­ending races and work toward them, the Irish should suc­
ceed. 
"The idea 

son is the jump "The idea is each race is each race from high gets a little
gets a little better and 

school to college better and
you kind ofbuild. And

competition. In you kind of order to ease obviously our main focus build," the shift to col­Connelly
has been the conference 

lege, Connelly said. "And
championship and

devised a sum­obviously mer training regionals to qualify for our main schedule. focus in
the NCAA tournament." 

"We found out years past what they were has been 
Tim Connelly 

doing in high the confer­school and Irish head coach ence cham­
made sure to make what we're doing not a total depar­ture from that and kind of just gradually work up to what we're doing," Connelly said. 
But the gradual increase in training difficulty did not end with the summer as Connelly continued a steady training schedule in the first week of fall practice last week. This year~ practice schedule will be consistently difficult, Connelly said, increasing each runner's ability as the season continues. 
The main reason Connelly does not want to push his team too hard at any single point is to keep Notre Dame competitive for a tough confer­ence and a tough NCAA 
pionship 
and region­als to qualify for the NCAA tournament:" 
Overall, Connelly said he feels this year's team can turn some heads, especially in the Big East. 
After being consistently ranked among the top teams in the NCAA for the past few years, the Irish are now con­sidered average -in part because of the graduation a talented bunch of seniors. 
"This year we're a team that nobody's counting on a whole lot to happen," Connelly said. "We're just going to go out and take our shots." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, August 29, 2006 
-Country 
continued from page 20 
the Chinese or not, the Irish will be without the two starters for this weekend's games against Southern California and Santa Clara. Bock and Dew are expected to return to the Irish lineup Sept. 8 against TCU. 
"When they come [back] its going to be amazing because they have so much to give to the team," Weissenhofer said. 
While playing without two starters has forced changes to the Irish lineup, senior captain Kim Lorenzen said the extra opportunities for other players will.help later in the season. 
"Right now we're just try­ing to figure out who we have healthy right now and where they're going to play, and we'll have to figure it out when [Bock and Dew] get back," Lorenzen said. "It's exciting knowing we have so many options. 
Lorenzen said Bock and Dew will have to make an adjustment transitioning from their U.S. coaches and teammates to coach Randy Waldrum and the Irish, but it shouldn't be a major prob­lem. 
"I think coming back to any team should be an adjust­ment especially not playing with any of the freshmen," Lorenzen said. "It will be exciting to have them coming back to our team and figur­ing out where people will move position-wise because we have a lot of talent." 
The Trojans, Notre Dame's opponent Friday, will also be missing a player from the 
U.S. team. Forward Amy Rodriguez, who scored a goal against the Germans, 
will not return to the USC lineup until Sept. 8, when the Trojans face Drake. 
While Bock and Dew have kept online diaries, their teammates have had little other contact with them. 
"I don't know if anyone's talked to them," Weissenhofer said. "They're kind of hard to get a hold of because they're in Russia." 
Bock and Dew both start­ed the game against Germany. Dew played the whole contest, and Bock subbed early in the second half. 
The Southern California game will begin at 7:30 p.m. Friday at Alumni Field. The Irish and Broncos will kick off Sunday at 1 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu and Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


Are you thinking about becoming Catholic? 
Find out more about: The Sacraments of Initiation: 
Is there some­

• Baptism, Eucharist & thing more to 
Confirmation: 
my FAITH? 
for unbaptized persons wanting
Something 
to become a member of 
more that I 
the Catholic Church.
should look into? 
• Full Communion:

Maybe there's for baptized persons wanting Full
more to all of Communion in the Catholic tradition.
this Church 

stuff. RCIA ... We all learn from one another. The 
For more into, 
RCIA gives you a chance to walk with 
contact: 
someone as you explore your faith and
Tami Schmitz 
find your place in the Church.
(g) 
Join us on this adventure of faith.
631-3016 
Schmilz.8(q!,nd.edu 308 Coleman-Morse Center 

RCIA 

CM INFO ESSIONS 

Tuesday, August 29, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
HENRI ARNOLD ALEC WHITE JUMBLE

JOCULAR 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, He's a to form four ordinary words. 
GYTIN 
[ J I 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
EDGUF 
± 


ADAM FAIRHOLM 
GOOLIG J [] [ 
www.jumble.com 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
I I 
A:( I I I JAr "[ I I I I I I ]" 
(Answers tomorrow) 
I Jumbles: DOUSE STOIC INNING FERVID Yesterday's 
Answer: In the military, additions can create­DIVISIONS 





THE: FINGE:!<P!<INT(] E:X'PE=!<T HAD A 
C.L..E:AN DE=SK Be­CAUSE: HE: WAS­


CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 37 The woman of 60 Word said 1 Swine Lennon's before opening "Woman" the eyes
5 "Money_ everything" 38 Dik Browne's 61 Cain's victim 9 Northern "Hi and 62 & 63 First two Scandinavians names of Guy 
39 Strikingly bright 
de Maupassant

14 Toward shelter, 
40 Habeas corpus, 
nautically 64 Inlet 
e.g.

15 Burn the 65 Advances of 
41 Make a boo-boo

surface of money 16 Devoured 42 2005 Christo 66 Conclusions quickly display in New 
67 Looks at
York City, with

17 Soft light 
"the"

18 Give new decor 
DOWN
43 Social class

19 Desmond of 
1 Dik Browne's"Sunset Blvd." 44 Got quiet, with 

the 20 Lungful udown" Horrible" 21 1976 Hoffman/ 46 Take back, as 2 Stan's partnerOlivier film one's story in old comedy 23 Music from 
48 Draft status 3 Title song of a 
Jamaica 
1966 hit movie 
50 Hold back

25 Dover fish 
4 Darn, as socks 26 Coward's color 
53 Character who 
5 Tel Aviv's land
debuted in All

29 Portugal's 
Star Comics, 6 Prophet 
capital 
December 1941 7 Nothin' 

33 It may be acute or obtuse 58 August 1 sign 8 Brings (out) 
34 Nick Charles's 45 One of the M's 53 Actor Ken of
9 Lipstick 

35 Master hand 59 April 1 sign wife in MoMA TV's "Wiseguy"
ingredient 36 Workshop 47 Construction 54 Creme cookie 
1oMakes up (for)

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE gripper site machines 11 Salon job, 55 Ship of informally Columbus
N L E A V E 39 Darth of 49 Cognizant "Star Wars" 
12 Cougar 51 Christopher of 
56 What a prophet
40 Kind of ad 
"Superman"
13 Bridge reads 42 Book before 
~=+:--:+-::-+=-1 21 Stag party 52 Bob and 
Exodus 57 Darn, as socks
a !tender Elizabeth of 43 Normandy city politics 61 High card
22 _ up (hid out) 24 Hair goops -=+=+::+:~~~ 27 Fail to mention For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
28 Be unsteady 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
30 Brendan Behan 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
book 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000H-=+~:+7-f-::-1-:+=+::,.+:.Bi-:+~:i-1-:-1 31 Step_ (hurry) past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). !-=:=-IR~.::+;..;+,=+::-ioiii.i-::+=+=+=-F.RH 32 Observe Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young '--''--'L...-.IL...-.1---'---'--"----'---'--'--'--'--'--' 33 Actor Guinn ess solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
. CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: LeAnn Rimes, 24; Jason Priestley, 37; Shania Twain, 41; Emma Samms, 46 
Happy Birthday: Good things are coming your way. ·It's time to shake things up and let everyone around you know you are no pushover. A partnership will change and you can make the most of the position you find yourself in. Staying in control will be the answer. Your numbers are 4, 19, 23, 24, 38, 40 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Take an interest in what the younger people in your life are up to. You will learn a valuable lesson. Someone you respect for his or her business savvy will be interested in a proposal you offer. 3 stars 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Things are beginning to fall into place. By being precise and knowing what you want, you will gain respect and support and can move forward. Throw a little playfulness into the mix. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Work on yourself, not on trying to change everyone around you. You will be inclined to get angry and this will lead to doing a poor job. Let things go rather than letting them consume you. 3 stars · 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): There is nothing you can't do when it comes to taking care of things at home. You can easily handle family and organize what you want everyone to contribute. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Someone is likely to mislead you about the way they feel. It's best to focus on home and how to cut your overhead. It may be time to size down not up. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A partnership you are in will take an interesting turn. You should be able to deal with any changes involving y0ur personal property or your personal life. Don't get involved in joint financial ventures. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your emotions will be difficult to control today. Deal with matters one at a time and don't let anyone put you in a position that will force you to make a snap decision. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will have a problem making the right choice with the infonnation you have. Someone is not telling you the whole truth. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You are likely to overlook something very important today. Get a second opinion or ask others how they view things before you make a decision or promise to do something. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): There is plenty going on and, as long as you stay on top of everything yourself, you stand to make headway. Money deals are looking very positive and proposals and contracts can be signed. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't be confused by emotional issues. You must 
take a position of strength if you want to gain respect and be treated better. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll be surprised at how much you can accomplish just by taking the initiative and going after what you want. Be prepared to answer questions and deal with whatever comes your way. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are analytical, practical and open to trying new things. You have charm; however, you are not likely to let anyone take advantage of you. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential 
consultations 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, August 29, 2006 
page 20 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Country calls for Bock, Dew 
Tearn USA advances to semis of U-20 World Championships with help from ND sophs 
By TIM DOUGHERTY and CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writers 
While Notre Dame was winning its first two games last weekend, two of its players were 8,000 miles away, playing for their country. 
And, thanks to Team USA's 4-1 win over Germany Sunday, sophomores Brittany Bock and Carrie Dew will stay in Russia to compete in the Under-20 World Championships until next week. 
With the victory over the Germans, the 
U.S. te"am advanced to the semifinals, where it will face China Thursday. Brazil will play North Korea in the other semifi­nal, also on Thursday. 
Back in South Bend, the sophomores' teammates are rooting for them. 
"Germany was supposed to be a really hard match," freshman forward Michele Weissenhofer said. "Everyone is happy for [Bock and Dew] because they've worked really hard. [Our] team is so close we're not going to make it weird or anything [when they return]. We're going to wel­come them with open arms." 
The semifinal winners will square off Sunday night for the title while the losers will play Sunday afternoon for third place, which means whether the U.S. squad beats 
see COUNTRYIpage 18 


SMC SocCER 
Hintons lead Belles to victory 
Team wins preseason scrimmage 4-0, looks ahead to fall season 
By DAN MURPHY SportS Writer 
The Belles showed midsea­son form in a preseason match Sunday, dominating Anderson 4-0 in a scrimmage at Saint Mary's. 
Sisters Ashley and Lauren Hinton hooked up twice for scores in the final of three 30­minute periods played in the exhibition match. 
Ashley Hinton, a senior cap­tain and midfielder, snuck two long passes through the Raven defense that gave sophomore forward Lauren Hinton a chance to finish. Ashley Hinton had another assist on the team's fourth goal scored by 
see EXHIBITION/page 18 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Teatn begins practices vvithout head coach 
Assistant coach Veltri will lead team during search for replacement 
By CHRIS HINE Sporrs Writer 
. Practice opens today as the Irish prepare for next month's Cougar Classic in Charleston, 
S.C. Just one thing is missing -a coach. 
The University announced Monday that Irish coach Debby King resigned after five years, and The Observer reported last Thursday that she would not be retained. 
"All they have told us is that she's not going to be our coach this year," junior golfer Alejandra Diaz-Calderon said. "They told us we would have a new coach soon, and we would like to get some closure in this." 
A search for a new coach is underway, but Notre Dame is in no hurry to find a replace­ment. 
"They said they don't want to rush the procedure because they want to find the right per­son for the job," senior Noriko Nakazaki said. 
Sophomore Lisa Maunu said the team is anxious to hear about its new leader. 
"The overall mood of the team is very positive, yet on edge waiting for a new coach," Maunu said. "It's been stressful not knowing when or who will be ar.~iving to take over the team. 
In the meantime, assistant coach Kyle Veltri has been in charge. 
"Coach Vekri has been amaz­ing.... She has been the back­bone of the team," Diaz­Calderon said. "You can tell she cares about us and about Notre Dame. We would love to have her as our head coach 
and  to  stay  on  no  matter  
what."  
Maunu  echoed  Diaz- 

Calderon's sentiments, saying 
see PRACTICE/page 18 

ND WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Workouts build to climax 
Connelly says tea_m's focus is already on Big East, NCAAs 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
!leading into the 2006 season, Notre Dame coach Tim Connelly has one thing on his mind -consistency. 
The Irish finished strong last season, including a Big East title and a second­place finish in tho Great Lakes regional en route to a seventh-place finish in the NCAA Championship meet. 
But in order to reach those milestones again this year. Notre Dame needs some new runners to Jill the void left after the gradua­tion of live starting runners from last season. 
"Last year was a good senior class," Connelly said. "We've got a bunch of kids here that have been waiting 
Tor their chance -Ann 
see WORKOUTS/page 18 

Junior Sunni Olding, center, and sophomore Ramsey Kavan, right, run in the Notre Dame Invitational Sept. 30, 2005. 

FIElD HOCKEY 
MEN'S WATER POLO 
NFL 
MlB
NFL 
MLB 
1.1.1 
Co) 

A potentially career
Once-retired quarter-
Pirates 11
z Notre Dame 1 
Mets 8 
The Irish beat 
Wittenberg 0 
backs Kerry Collins and 

ending head injury will 
Phillies 3 
Cubs 6
Tennessee and Miami of 
::5 
Freddy Sanchez had
New York wins
Sophomore goalie 
Ohio but lost to Grand 

sideline Chiefs running
Jeff George sign with 
despite Ryan Howard's 
three hits to power 
= 
c::c Catherine Duffy made 
Valley at the Hillbilly 

back Priest Holems for
new teams. 
15 saves in the Irish 
Classic in Knoxville, 
47th home run of the 
Pittsburgh past

at least six weeks. 
victory. 
Tenn. 
season. 
Chicago.
a. !:i 
page 12
page 17 
page 17 
page 14 
page 14 
page
Cl) 







