
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND senior killed in early morning car accident 
Fatal Toll Road crash caused by tire blowout, officials say 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Editor 
A Notre Dame senior was ki1led in a car crash early Friday morning on Indiana State Toll Road near LaPorte, Ind., offi­cials said. 
Caitlin Brann, 22, was headed west on Interstate 80-90 at 2:13 
a.m. EST Friday when her rear passenger-side tire blew out, causing her to lose control of her, 2000 Chevrolet Cavalier convertible, according to an Indiana State Police report. 
Brann, a marketing 

Brann
major from Orland Park, Ill., entered the median sideways, just past mile marker 41.2. Her car rolled numerous times before becoming airborne and sideswiping the trailer of a semi-
see ACCIDENT/page 4 


Candlelight memorial service held at Grotto in Brann's honor 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Editor 
More than 200 students gathered at the Grotto Saturday night for a memorial prayer service for Notre Dame senior Caitlin Brann, who was described as a "spark of fire." 
Brann died in a car crash early Friday morning on the Indiana Toll Road. 
A bagpipe played "Amazing Grace" as three of Brann's friends processed through the crowd, one holding the Bible, one holding a poster with pictures of Brann and one hold­ing a cross. 
Students held candles beneath Mary's stat­ue hugging, crying and wiping tears. 
After a soloist performed "Let it Be" on the guitar, Brann's friends spoke about their memories of her. Some spoke about Freshman Orientation, when they met Brann and decided "she was cooler than the rest of us." 
Another spoke about chatting with Brann 
see MEMORIAL/page 6 

~Loyal Daughters' debuts at DPAC 
Jenkins withdraws endorsement from play, but supports goal ofsexual assault prevention 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 
A student-created production about sexuality and sexual assault at Notre Dame will open today with the clear intent, organizers said, of shaking the University community into awareness about sexual violence on campus. 
"Loyal Daughters" will debut, however, without the endorse­ment of University President Father John Jenkins -a back­ing it lost after Jenkins viewed the script in early October and found that its occasionally "neu­tral stance" on premarital sex was "in direct opposition to the Church and Father Jenkins' posi­tion on issues of sexual morali­ty," University spokesman Dennis Brown said Sunday. 
Brown said, however, that Jenkins still "completely sup­ports" the central aim of the play, "which is education and awareness to prevent sexual assault and sexual violence." 
Jenkins' withdrawal of his endorsement comes seven months after he identified the student-written "Loyal Daughters" as one of the "sub­stantive" results of an inflamed, two-month, campus-wide discus­sion on academic freedom and Catholic character. 
That discussion began on Jan. 23, when Jenkins questioned the annual on-campus presence of "The Vagina Monologues" and other events "in name or content clearly and egregiously contrary to or inconsistent with the funda­mental values of a Catholic uni­versity." 
On April 5, Jenkins issued a 
see SUPPORT/page 4 


Student-written, NO-specific production will run four nights this week 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 
Judging from the vigor of their applause, the 16 students who came to watch the first full dress rehearsal of "Loyal Daughters" Saturday were not unaffected by the performance -which brought them to laughter, tears and, at times, utter silence. 
"It is shocking," said junior Luke Cieslewicz, who attended the dress rehearsal. "You never think that [sexual vio­lence] is happening around here." 
The 25 monologues and skits in "Loyal Daughters" examine discrepancies between the ideal perception of Notre Dame -what the script calls "the sense of familiarity, sense of belonging" -and the presence of sexual violence on campus. 
The production, which opens tonight, is written, directed and performed completely by Notre Dame students. Each monologue is true and based on interviews that senior writer and producer Emily Weisbecker conducted with more than 55 Notre Dame stu­dents and professors. 

"It was just amazing," Weisbecker said of conducting the interviews. "People were very forthright in telling me very personal experiences. I felt very honored that they trusted me and were willing to share so much." 
There are stories of sexual assault (against both men and women), homosexuality, bisex­uality, off-campus and on-cam­pus rape, self-defense tech­niques, duLac discrepancies and body image issues ­themes that bear some similar­ity to those found in "The Vagina Monologues," a play that opened amid a flurry of controversy last spring regard­ing its place and purpose at Notre Dame. 
University President Father John Jenkins sparked that 10­week controversy in addresses 
see SHOW/page 8 

Moody­
Stuart 


speaks 
Talk focuses on UN' s role, worldwide needs 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, chairman of the board of directors of the United Nations (UN) Foundation for the Global Compact, delivered 
the keynote address of a three-day peace con­ference that b e g a n S u n d a y night, organ­ized by the Center for 


Ethics and Moody-Stuart Religious Values in Business. Moody-Stuart, who is also chairman of international mining company Anglo American PLC, called for businesses to contribute to the development of strong societies in fragile or corrupt countdes. "It is part of our responsi­bility, with others in society, to help create the kind of society in which we can do business," said Moody-Stuart, who spoke in the press box of Notre Dame Stadium. 
see UN/page 6 

Monday, November 13, 2006
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE DINING HALL FOOD TO EAT AND WHY?




INSIDE COLUMN 

'Wo-w -wo-w 
we wah' 

"Borat" has drawn crowds to movie theaters across the nation since the movie's release on Nov. 3, delighting many Americans and infuriating the nation of Kazakhstan. 
But, maybe it should be the Laura Baumgartner other way around. 
News Writer 
While Kazakhstan is not portrayed in a positive light in the film, the claims against that nation are at least fiction. While there have been several reports of people believ­ing British comedian Sacha Cohen's characterization of the central Asian country, anyone would have to be gullible and lazy to seriously accept it as truth. 
A simple online search of Kazakhstan could easily inform any curious party about the nation and its citizens. Or better yet, a visit to the local library where they stock ency­clopedias full of useful tidbits waiting to be absorbed into hungry minds. 
Cohen's movie has spiked world­wide interest in this formerly unheard of region of the globe, a great oppor­tunity, in my opinion, for Kazakhstan to boost tourism and generate a buzz. 
It's a publicist's dream come true. News outlets everywhere are running stories, and if Kazakhstan can spin them right, they could be a major form of free advertising. 
Americans, on the other hand, are not so lucky. 
The negative portrayals of our citi­zens do represent truths in our coun­try, not blatant over-exaggerations. 
The fact that some who have seen the movie internalize the depiction of Kazakhstan as truth only serves as evidence of this fact. 
I found parts of the movie to be hilarious and others incredibly grotesque, but overall I left the the­atre mostly in a state of shock. Though the shock was partially induced by the graphic nature of cer­tain scenes, it was primarily due to the reawakening I received about our country's own shortcomings. 
Certain details concerning the process behind the creation of the film remain foggy; however, the image of the United States in the movie is more believable and true than that of Kazakhstan. 
The frat boys from South Carolina claim they were tricked into the on­screen antics and anti-female com­mentary they provided in the movie, but it could certainly be argued that while they might not have been accu­rately portrayed, feelings and actions similar to what they expressed in the movie are not uncommon. 
Neither is the presence of televan­gelists who travel the world "healing" the sick and "saving" the damned, or the belief that all Middle-Easterners are terrorists and should be killed. 
Of course, every American cannot be categorized into the limited view Borat provides throughout his travels. 
So, maybe instead of focusing on Kazakhstan we should all take a clos­er look at the problems we have in our own society that "Borat" wittingly calls out without fear or shame. 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at 
lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys. edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please call us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Thomas Thuruthiyil 
South Dining Hall staff 
"Grilled chicken breast on salad. because it's healthy. , 

Hilda Boney 
South Dining Hall staff 
"Catfish, because it's one ofmy favorite foods." 
Scott Rice 
freshman Morrissey 
"Cornbread, because it's sweet with a hint of crunchiness. " 

McGruff, Clancy the big Leprechaun and Notre Dame cheerleaders participate In a pickup game of smash ball during halftime of the women's volleyball victory over West VIrginia yesterday. 
OFFBEAT 

Hundreds blame dead guy, neighbor for tickets 
SYDNEY, Australia ­More than 200 Australian motorists have avoided parking and speeding fines by blaming either a dead man or an interstate resi­dent for their errors in what police said Saturday may be a widespread fraud. 
Under New South Wales state law, if a car owner signs a sworn statement that they were not driving the vehicle when an offense was committed, they can avoid paying speed camera fines, which arrive by mail, and parking tickets left under windshield wipers. 
A recent government audit of the excuses given in those sworn statements revealed that 238 motorists had blamed one of two peo­ple -a dead man who had, when alive, lived in Sydney and a person living in neighboring South Australia state -Police Superintendent Daryl Donnolly said in a state­ment. 
Deer frees itself from Halloween bucket 
CASCADE TOWNSIIIP, Mich. -A deer whose head was stuck in a plastic Halloween jack-o'-lantern for nearly a week has freed itself and will be fine, ani­mal rescuers said Saturday. 
Two children found a dented, hair-lined plastic pumpkin in their yard Friday night, and other neighbors saw a thin deer running free, The Grand Rapids Press reported. It was rainy Friday, which rescuers think helped the young deer wriggle free. 
Rescuers had planned to use a dart gun to tranquil­ize the yearling, then remove the bucket, meant for collecting candy. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a: 
l: 
"' 
!ci: 

3: "' 
.... 
cc 
(.) 





0 

HIGH 48 HIGH HIGH HIGH
...I 

LOW 36 LOW LOW LOW 
46 
36 
46 39 
46 35 



Morgan Schulz Maura Caufield 
sophomore sophomore Howard Howard 
"Flank steak, "Roasted because the steamship leg blend of ofpork 
seasonings on because it the steak sounds SO gives it full delicious!" flavor." 
IN BRIEF 

Professor Thomas Goltz will present a lecture, video presentation and discussion entitled "The Chechen National Disaster and Other Conflicts in the Post-Soviet Caucasus today at 4:30 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium at the Snite Museum of Art. This event is free and open to the general public. 
2006 Richard H. Driehaus Prize Laureate Allan Greenberg will present a lecture entitled "Architecture of Democracy" today from 
4:30 p.m. to 6 in 104 Bond Hall. This event is open to the general public. 
Travel writer and PBS personality Rick Steves will kick off International Education week with a lecture entitled "How to Travel Smart" today at 7:30 
p.m. in the McKenna Hall Auditorium. He will lecture again at 4:30p.m. Tuesday. 
Saint Mary's junior class will sell $2 banana splits today from 5 p.m. to 9 in Reignboux Lounge in Le Mans Hall. All proceeds will go to S.C.O.U.T. B.A.N.A.N.A. to raise funds for a community in Uganda. 
Kumar Vemaganti, professor of mechanical, industrial and nuclear engineering at the University of Cincinnati, will present a seminar entitled "Characterization of Modeling of Biomaterial and Tissue" Tuesday at 3:30 p.m. in 138 DeBartolo Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 

Atlanta 68 I 37 Boston 56 I 52 Chicago 48 I 37 Denver 52 I 40 Houston 74 I 61 Los Angeles 72 I 52 Minneapolis 43 I 33 New York 61 I 55 Philadelphia 60 I 52 Phoenix 80 I 55 Seattle 47 I 40 St. Louis 57 I 40 Tampa 76 I 51 Washington 57 I 47 


Monday, November 13, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
NOVEMBER 13-17-UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME lEW SPONSORS
lrtTERM110t1Al Office of the President; Office of International Studies; Office of the Dean, College of Arts and Letters; Office of the Dean, Mendoza College of Business; Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies; Kellogg Institute for International Studies; Nanovic Institute for European Studies; 
E JIOrt 
Campus Ministries; Department of Film, Theatre & Television; Career Center; Department of East 
20 
............... WEEK Asian Languages & Literatures; Department of Romance Languages and Literatures; Department of German & Russian; International Student Services & Activities; Center for Social Concerns; Asian American Society; Fischer-O'Hara Grace Residences; Caribbean Working Group; Mendoza College of Business; Notre Dame Food Services; DeBartolo Performing Arts Center; Student 
International Business Council; Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies; Department 06 of Africana Studies; Department of History; Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies along with Student Residence Halls and Cultural Clubs and Student Government 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER13 
Continuing through Tuesday: "Peace Through Commerce: Partnerships as the New Paradigm" 
An international conference. For more information, see: hli£l://tV\Wl/.nd.edu/~ethks/1;fthicsConfenmce/ 
IE W Keynote Speaker, RICK STEVES, Travel writer, activist, and PBS radio and television persa7ality 
Opening Public Lecture and Booksigning: "How to Travel Smart" 7:30pm; McKenna Hall 
Garee r Center's lnte rnational Student Resume Workshop 
12:15-1 pm; Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center 
Pedro Cabiya, Puerto Rican Writer 
Hispanic Caribbean Lecture Series-Fall2006, Part 4 
"Kingdom Kong: Chapters from a Lethal Book of Caribbean Mysticism" (Public Reading from a work-in-progress) 
4:30pm; Hesburgh Library, Dept. of Special Collections (Preceded by a reception at 4:00pm) 
Tho mas Goltz, Journalist and War Correspondent 
"The Chechen National Disaster and Other Conflicts in the Post-Soviet Caucasus" 
A lecture, video presentation, and discussion 
4:30pm; Annenberg Auditorium 
Sponsored by the Faculty of the Program in Russian and East European Studies 
ALL WEEK LONG: International foods served in the Dining Halls. FAIRLY -TRADED GIFTS EVENT, featuring handcrafts from developing countries produced for Ten Thousand Villages 
Monday-Thursday, 10am-4p m; Dooley Room, First Floor LaFortune AND Frid:ay, 10am-4pm; Atrium, Mendoza College of Business 
FOR FULL CALENDAR OF EVENTS: www.nd.edu/-issaiiEW.htm 
Rain datnpens band, attendees, not spirits 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT News Writer 
Despite the leaky roof that let rain into the Stepan Center ­and onto Beh Folds -Friday night, 1,800 students jammed into the building to hear the singer's unique style of piano rock. 
"We knew if it rained it was going to leak, but we didn't have any other options due to the high cost and limited availability of the 
"No one can
JACC," said Notre Dame SUB Student Union remember the last concert that was Board manager this successful," he
Notre Dame SUB 
Patrick Vassel. said.
concert that was
Students ques­Although more 
tioned SUB's this successful. '' students could have choice of the been accommodat­Stepan Center. ed in the Joyce
Patrick Vassel
The Stepan Center, Vassel said
SUB manager
Center was the the facility was 
largest venue SUB could provide, Vassel said, even though the building was not in the best condition. SUB worked to increase the concert's capacity from 1,500 occupants to 1,800 to allow as many students as possi­ble to attend. 
And Folds made the most of the situation, Vassel said, deciding to "make up a few songs" about the rain rather than end the show early. Folds sang an expanded set for 90 minutes -15 minutes longer than expected. 
Students in attendance said Folds handled the environmental setbacks well. Sophomore Tim Politano, who "loved the music," said Stepan was "all right, espe­cially because [Folds] was poking fun at it." 
Piskurich also appreciated the way Folds dealt with the rain, say­ing the musician's "charismatic nature" made it worthwhile. 
The concert was a huge success for SUB. Vassel said SUB expected to sell out due to Folds' popularity, but he "did not anticipate selling out as quickly as we did." 
"No one can 
remember the last 

"prohibitively expensive" and SUB was able to obtain cheaper access to the Stepan Center, controlled by the Student ActiVities Office. 
The sale of tickets generated an estimated $24,000 in profit for SUB, which Vassel said would go toward the cost of the spring con­cert. 
When asked about potential spring concert artists, Vassel said SUB would take a "weekend to recover" before planning for next semester. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 


Search for vice president begins 
Administrative changes, restructuring create new research position 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame is launching a national search for a vice pres­ident for research, reflecting a change in the administrative structure of graduate educa­
tion and research designed to take the University's aspirations to the next level. 
The new 

structure 
Burish
splits the job of vice president for graduate studies and research into two 
ND to host faith, health series 
-Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame will host a con­ference titled "Faith and Health: An Interdisciplinary Conference on the Dynamics of Religious Coping" from Dec. 3 to 5 (Sunday to Tuesday) at McKenna Hall. 
The goal of the conference is to deepen the understand­ing of the connection between theological and social science perspectives on faith and health. The conference will bring together scholars from theology, medicine and psy­positions that will each report directly to the provost. The new structure has been recom­mended by the Academic Council and the president and, most recently, approved by the Board of Trustees. The Academic Council elected a five-member search committee last week. Provost Thomas Burish said he would like to see the new vice president in place by the beginning of next academic year. 
Elected committee members are Neil Delaney, philosophy and honors program; Maureen Hallinan, sociology; Steve Batill, engineering; Richard Taylor, chemistry and biochem­
chology and enable them to present information from their respective disciplines and to integrate that informa­tion in order to set a new agenda for the field of faith and health. 
"There is a theology of prayer that has a rich tradi­tion in religion and religious mysticism, and there is a con­comitant body of research on prayer in the social sciences," said Thomas V. Merluzzi, a Notre Dame professor of psychology and director of the Laboratory for istry; and Malgorzata Dobrowolska-Furdyna, physics. The provost may appoint up to two additional members. 
Burish raised the issue of potential reorganization short­ly after his arrival in fall 2005, when he created the ad hoc committee on graduate educa­tion and research. 
The committee returned with a report in this past May that reflects a deep desire to inten­sify the University's commit­ment to research. Called "A New Beginning," the report cites a critical issue "that must be addressed if the University is to become a leading research institution." 
Psychooncology Research. "Yet, the integration of those lines of thought has not occurred. 
"Similarly, there is theologi­cal perspective on suffering and a psychology of meaning that impinges on the process of coping with illness. Yet, again, these intellectual lines of thought do not intersect in the literature on coping. While this initial effort will focus on Christianity, it will hopefully set the stage to explore connections with other faith traditions." 
page4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 13, 2006 
"We even ran the tests twice 
Thought yor1 coultfrr't study abroad?
because we didn't smell [alco­
Accident 

Don't want to miss a semester on campus?
hol] on the scene," Sullivan 
continued from page 1 
truck headed east, said LaPorte County Chief Deputy Coroner John Sullivan, who was on the scene. Brann's vehicle came to rest upside down. 
·"She either hit a piece of metal in the road or just plain had a blowout," Sullivan said Saturday. "Even though she did have her seatbelt on, it was what we call a 'non-sur­vivable' type of crash." 
Brann was brought to LaPorte Hospital, but was declared dead on the scene of the accident by Sullivan due to "massive head injuries." 
A soft-top convertible like Brann's, Sullivan said, lacks structural integrity compared to a "four-door sedan that would have an actual hard top and steel pillars and a steel roof." 
"[Such convertibles] just have steel cross-members and a vinyl covering for the actual roof. So in a roll-over acci­dent you do not have near the protection or structural integrity," he said. 
The Westville Fire Department assisted police on the scene. 
Alcohol was also a factor in the crash, he said. It is illegal to operate a vehicle in Indiana with a blood alcohol level of anything over .08 per­cent, Sullivan said, putting Brann -whose tests showed 
a .249 percent blood alcohol level -three times above the legal limit. 

made up of fac­ulty, students and administra­tors that would foster "a wide­ranging discus­sion of gender relations, roles, and ways to pre­vent violence against women." 
Senior writer E m i I y Weisbecker decided to let the committee, which Jenkins chairs and of which she is a member, read the script Oct. 2. 
Jenkins' last­minute decision to stop endors­ing the produc­said. 
Sullivan said he has "no reason" to think that Brann was driving faster than the legal speed limit, which on the Indiana Toll Road is 65 miles per hour. 
While Corporal Michael Young of District 21 Indiana State Police told The Observer Friday that another person was in Brann's vehicle, Sergeant Keith Kopinski said Saturday that there is "no information about another person in the car." 
"I have never heard of a mention of another person," Kopinski said, citing possible misreading of the police report by Young on Friday. 
Sullivan said someone reported the crash as a "two­victim accident, so they had a helicopter coming from South Bend initially." 
Indiana State Police Trooper Ryan Starnes was the first on the scene, after receiving word about the accident from a 2:14 a.m. 911 call, accord­ing to the police report. 
The Observer could not reach Starnes Saturday after­noon. 
The driver of the truck, Sean D. Garber, 38, was not injured, the police report said. 
The eastbound lanes of 1-80 were shut down for about three hours, Sullivan said, adding that traffic was not "heavy." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
whether sponsor­ing controversial "We understand that events implied endorsing their
it's a difficult 
content or mes­
decision for him, but 
sage. at the same time, it Without Jenkins' endorsement,
was nerve-wracking 
Liddy and
for us because we 
Weisbecker said weren't sure what they fear that stu­dents who
'with-drawing were 
originally opposed 
endorsement' meant 
to "The Vagina
in terms offinancing Monologues" will probably not come
and our ability to 
to the production.
perform it on 
Had it maintained 
campus. Jenkins' backing, perhaps _ they would have consid­
Madison Liddy 
ered attending,
senior director 
Weisbecker said. Though the pro­
duction has close 

Study Abroad this Summer through ND! 
Vienna, Austria Paris, France Dublin, Ireland Milan, Italy Rome, Italy Puebla, Mexico Auckland, New Zealand Toledo, Spain Kampala, Uganda London, United Kingdom 
Come to an information session to learn more... Wednesday, November 15, 2006 5:30pm 215 Hayes Healy 
Application deadline is March l, 2007! 


Support 
continued from page 1 

statement that said he would not prohibit future performances of the "Monologues," but explained that he hoped to focus on two different initiatives to eliminate violence against women ­"Loyal Daughters," and the cre­ation of an ad-hoc committee Daughters" to continue and sup­ports its purpose. 

Jenkins' decision to no longer endorse the production scratches the already-blurry line between sponsorship and endorsement at Notre Dame -a debate that reverberated through campus last spring as students and facul­ty grappled with the place of the "Monologues" on campus. Members of the Notre Dame community often clashed over 
tion was an unexpected and worrisome turn of events for Weisbecker and senior director Madison Liddy. 
"We understand that it's a diffi­cult decision for him, but at the same time, it was nerve-racking for us because we weren't sure what 'withdrawing endorsement' meant in terms of financing and our ability to perform it on cam­pus," Liddy said. 
Brown, however, declined to define "endorsement," saying it was getting into "schematics." The key, Brown said, is that Jenkins is allowing "Loyal ties to the administration, Weisbecker said her "academic freedom was completely protect­ed" and that her decision to share her script with Jenkins was her own choice. Also, the idea for "Loyal Daughters" was entirely her own, she said, and came about long before Jenkins raised questions about "The Vagina Monologues." 
Weisbecker said she knew Jenkins "had no editorial con­trol" over the content of the play. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 




~ Please Recycle Th~ Ol?server. 


--~-~ ----~--~--------------------------------------------, 


ORLD & NATION 
Monday, November 13, 2006 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Hamas agrees to talks with Israel 
· CAIRO -The Hamas-led Palestinian gov­ernment agreed Sunday to an international peace conference with Israel after the Arab League -angered by Israel's military offen­sive in Gaza -voted to end a financial blockade on the Palestinians. 
Foreign Minister Mahmoud Zahar of Hamas endorsed a statement by Arab foreign minis­ters calling for the peace. conference during a meeting in Cairo to respond to a U.S. veto of a U.N. Security Council resolution con­demning the Gaza offensive. 
Israel responded by saying it would not hold talks with Hamas unless it agreed to demands, backed by the U.S. and Europe, that the group recognize Israel, renounce violence and abide by existing agreements between Israel and Palestinians. 
Zahar said the Palestinians had asked for the peace conference "in order to reach just and comprehensive solutions." The accept­ance marked the first time the Hamas-led government has indicated it would consider making amends with the Jewish state. 
Activists delay nuclear waste transfer 
BERLIN -Protesters who suspended them­selves from a rope across railroad tracks Sunday temporarily stopped a train carrying reprocessed nuclear waste in Germany. 
The activists from the environmental organi­zation Robin Wood stretched the rope between trees on either side of the tracks about several miles from the train's destination in the northern city of Dannenberg. Two activists, supported by two more in the trees, then climbed across the rope and chained themselves to it, dangling over the tracks. 
Police were able to quickly clear the way for the train to proceed. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Mixed reaction meets new memorial 
NEW YORK -Hundreds of relatives and friends of the victims killed when American Airlines Flight 587 crashed dedicated a much­awaited memorial Sunday with mementoes and mixed emotions. 
"It's something that we can come to and pray," said Ana Lora, who placed a model car near the name of her brother, Jose Francisco Lora, who collected cars. "This is something that, really, we need." 
The memorial marks years of effort to create a tangible remembrance of the crash, which killed all 260 people on board and another five in the quiet Queens neighborhood where the jet fell. 
But the memorial also was shaped by tensions over its location -a seaside. park, rather than the residential street where the plane crashed ­and some victims' relatives were still coming to terms with the outcome Sunday. 

Rumsfeld ouster sparks GOP anger 
WASHINGTON -The White House is trying to soothe Republicans who say the party might have fared better on Election Day if President Bush had not waited until after the vote to oust Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld. 
"You could argue that either way, of what political effect an earlier decision on Secretary Rumsfeld would have had. But it doesn't mat­ter," White House chief of staff Josh Bolten said Sunday. "The president correctly decided that this decision does not belong in the politi­cal realm." 


LOCAL NEWS 
City stops picking up stray animals 
TERRE HAUTE, Ind.-The city has stopped picking up stray animals because of budget con­cerns, and is now only taking vicious, neglected or abused animals to the local shelter. 
The city is nearly out of money for animal con­trol. It only had $300 left for the year after pay­ing September's bill to the Terre Haute Humane Society, according to the Board of Public Works and Safety. 
Terre Haute Mayor Kevin Burke said the city could pay up to $100,000 this year to take stray animals to the shelter. He said the city. will be requesting proposals from private entities that may be able to take in strays. 
COMP[LFO FROM THf: OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVlCES page 5 

Hopefuls looking toward 2008 
Sens. McCain and Biden, Gov. Vilsack plan presidential bids; Feingold opts out 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Repub­
lican Sen. John McCain said 
Sunday he is taking the ini­
tial steps for a White House 
bid in 2008, setting up a 
committee that allows a 
potential candidate to raise 
money and travel the coun­~ try to gauge support. 
Democratic Sen. Joe 
Biden reaffirmed his inten­
tion to seek his party's nom­
ination, though an 
announcement about estab­
lishing an exploratory com­
mittee probably will not 
come until early next year. 
The anticipated wide­
open campaign -for the 
first time since the 1928 
race, the field will not 
include a sitting president 
or vice president -lost one 
possible participant when 
Sen. Russ Feingold, D-Wis., 
decided against a long-shot 
run. 

McCain, R-Ariz., said he is 
moving toward a 2008 bid 
by "doing things organiza­
tionally and legally" but will 
not make a final decision 
until early next year. 
McCain, considered the 
front-runner for his party's 
presidential nomination, 
said he could create an 
exploratory committee as 
early as this week. 
"Are we doing the things 
organizationally and legally 
that need to be done? Yes," 
he said. "There are certain would turn 72 on Aug. 29, county parties. One potential challenger 
things legally you have to 2008, at the height of the The 63-year-old Biden, he will not have to contend 
comply with in order to con­campaign. Only Ronald who is line to take over as with is Feingold, who said 
tinue to raise money and set Reagan was older -73 at chairman of the Senate he wanted to focus on his 
up an organization." the start of his second term. Foreign Relations Commit­work in the Senate. 
"The important thing is McCain's health also could tee, also ran for president Feingold, 53, is an outspo­
we will not make a decision be an issue because he has before, dropping from the ken opponent of the Iraq 
until I sit down with my had several cancerous 1988 race after it became war, the Patriot Act and 
family, but we will be pre­lesions removed from his known he had lifted a por­other Bush administration 
pared," McCain said. skin. tion of a speech from a policies. 
GOP officials last week McCain is a former Navy British politician without "I never got to the point 
said McCain would set up pilot who was a prisoner of attribution. where I felt strongly J want­
an exploratory committee war in Vietnam. He was Biden, first elected to the ed to run," Feingold told 
and has opened a bank elected to the Senate in Senate in 1972, said Sunday The Associated Press. "Then 
account for the committee. 1986, and served in the he would address the issue I saw the result Tuesday 
On Sunday, McCain char­House for four years before of an exploratory committee and thought what a great 
acterized the moves as pre­that. early in 2007. "I still plan on opportunity to do my work 
liminary until he decides During the 2006 election running. I haven't, quite in the Senate." 
over the holidays about a cycle, McCain attended 346 frankl~ thought through all Last week Iowa Gov. Tom 
possible bid. He unsuccess­events and raising more of the ... mechanics of it at VIlsack announced his can­
fully sought his party's nom­than $10.5 million on behalf this point in terms of when didacy. Sen. Hillary Rodham 
ination for president in of Republican candidates. to announce setting up an Clinton of New York is wide­
2000. He also donated nearly $1.5 exploratory conunittee, but I ly considered the front-run­
If McCain were to run, he million to federal, state and plan on doing that," he said. ner. 

IRAQ 


Shiite P.M. responds to 159 deaths 
killed, as were four British service ment not to try to move too quickly
Associated Press 

members. because of the political pressure it 
BAGHDAD -The Shiite prime Also Sunday, the country's Sunni feels. Our technical needs are real minister promised Sunday to defense minister challenged Prime and that is very important, if we reshuffle his Cabinet after calling Minister Nouri al-Maliki's con­are to be a real force against inse­lawmakers disloyal and blaming tention that the U.S. military should curity," al-Obaidi said. Sunni Muslims for raging sectarian quickly pull back into bases and let Al-Maliki wants the Americans violence that claimed at least 159 the Iraqi army take control of secu­confined to bases for him to call on more lives, including 35 men blown rity countrywide. in emergencies, but he boldly pre­apart while waiting to join Iraq's Defense Minister Abdul-Qadir al­dicted his army could crush vio­police force. Obaidi rejected calls by al-Maliki lence within six months if left alone 
Among the unusually high num­for the U.S. military to speed trans­to do the work. ber of dead were 50 bodies found fer of security operations through­The top U.S. commander in Iraq, behind a regional electrical compa­out the country to the Iraqi army, Gen. George Casey last month said ny in Baqouba, 35 miles northeast saying his men still were too poorly it would take 12 to 18 months of Baghdad, and 25 others found equipped and trained to do the job. before Iraq's army was ready to scattered throughout the capital. "We are working hard to create a take control of the country with Three U.S. troops were reported real army and we ask our govern-some U.S. backup. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 13, 2006 
UN 
continued from page I 
The role of businesses in society can be compared to a passenger on a ship about to crash, he said. The passenger who has paid his ticket in full has no real responsibility to aid the captain of the ship in averting a crash, but he should feel compelled to help. 
"We operate as companies ... in countries all around the world where we have an interest in assisting in devel­oping sound governments, but we have absolutely no man­date to do it," Moody-Stuart said. 
The Global Compact, estab­lished by UN Secretary­tions are falling short in cre­ating sustainable develop­ment. 
A UN commission in the mid-1980s defined sustainable development as "development that meets the needs of the present without .compromising the ability of future genera­tions to meet their needs," he said. In the past, this kind of development was achieved, but the current state of the world threatens future gener­ations. 
The UN Global Compact pro­motes the development of a sustainable economy, Moody­Stuart said. 
In the 19th and early 20th centuries, philanthropists like Rockefeller and Carnegie cre­ated businesses that interact­ed with society by making Washington University, Wake Forest University and University of Dayton also attended. 


The three-day conference, titled "Peace Through Commerce: Partnerships as a New Paradigm," will explore the dynamics of partnerships between businesses and non­governmental organizations and discuss ways to collabo­rate in the quest for social development and world peace. 
The "Peace Through Commerce" conference is sponsored by the AACSB, the United Nations Global Compact, the Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business, and Notre Dame's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
General Kofi Annan in 2000, provides a forum for companies and UN agen­cies, labor organizations, civil society and governments to work together to develop approaches and solutions to eco­nomic and socie­tal problems, he said. It seeks to build trust between busi­nesses and soci­ety to achieve real solutions. 

money and then donating it. That still continues "What we actually today, with Warren Buffett
need -which is a 
and Bill Gates as

dream -in each 
examples, Moody­and every country, Stuart said, but the approach of
all over the world, 
the Global

is proper, well 
Compact is to look thought-out at how business is legislation, responsible to the 
society it affects.

properly enforced. " 
The primary objective of a Mark Moody-Stuart company should 
United Nations 
not be to make money, he said. The quality of its product and what 

MeiDorial 
continued from page I 

said. Observer. "I also visited Caitlin's 
During the summer of 2005, friends in [her residence] Clover Brann worked with severely dis­Ridge apartment complex and abled students and lived with shared this very sad news with Notre Dame alumnus Ron them." 
$6 Smior Citizens, $3 Students Call631-2800 or visit http://pe~formiugnrts.nd.edu 


Meyers-Squibb, as well as 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15,2006 NGOs like Oxfam and the Initiative for Global 
8:00 PM, LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL 
Development. 

DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER
University representatives from schools including George 

Tickets:$10 Adults, $8 ND/SMC Faculty/Staff 
Achieving this trust requires open reporting on business' progress, protecting human rights and working toward creation of responsible gov­ernment oversight in every country, Moody-Stuart said. 
Rather than overarching, international regulation, every country should develop a gov­ernment that peacefully and justly controls its own society, he said. 
"What we actually need ­which is a dream -in each and every country, all over the world, is proper, well thought­out legislation, properly enforced," Moody-Stuart said. 
Right now, he said, corpora-
in her apartment at Clover Ridge, describing her confidence and her "beautiful spirit." 
Later, petitions were read that called for the preservation of Brann's soul, her reunion with God and the continuation of the "spark" she brought to the world. 
Brann's parents joined her friends at the Grotto for the can­dlelit service. 
The community in Pasquerilla East, Brann's dormitory for three years, has been deeply affected by Brann's death, Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman said in an e-mail Saturday. Residents and some of Brann's close friends gathered for a memorial Mass there Friday. 
"Death is never easy to con­template. It is harder still when the one who dies is as bright and vital and full of promise as Caitlin was," University President Father-John Jenkins said in a statement released Friday. "She and her family will remain in our hearts, and in our prayers." 
Brann was active in the Center for Social Concerns and participated in a Summer Service Learning Program in New York, a University release 
their product does for cus­tomers, shareholders and employees should be the first concern, he said. 
University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh welcomed Moody­Stuart and the other guests to Notre Dame for the confer­ence. In his speech, he quoted Thomas Aquinas, who described peace as the "tran­quility of order." 
"I suspect that as all of you talk about peace this week, you will be talking about jus­tice, because without justice ... there is no such thing as peace," Hesburgh said. 
Moody-Stuart referred to 
Mosca and his family, according to a Nov. 11 article in the Daily Southtown. 
"I could tell from the first day that I delivered her to the school, she had a terrific inter­est in the children and concern for the children," Mosca said in the article. "She was a great kid. She was a well-rounded, very likeable young lady." 
Professor Rick Bailey, Brann's marketing instructor, told the Daily Southtown that Brann "brought ambition and a warm smile with her to each class." 
"It is difficult to imagine how or why such a bright, articulate young woman could be taken from us," Bailey said. "Her classmates and I will grieve her absence and uphold her family in prayer." 
The University received word about the crash approximately two and a half hours after it occurred Friday. 
"After receiving the news this morning at 4:45 a.m., I spoke with Caitlin's parents, Mr. and Mrs. John Brann, and offered the condolences of the University community as well as any assistance we can provide at this very difficult time," Poorman said in an e-mail Friday morning received by The 1-Iesburgh's remarks when he talked about his former work as a field geologist in Oman. In the 1960s, Oman was a "truly medieval country" in terms of education, human rights, government and econo­my, he said. But now it has developed into a well-ordered society with good schools, a reasonably fair distribution of wealth and elected officials. 
"the wealth for that came from oil, but it also came from the order and justice which Father 1-Iesburgh spoke about," he said. 
Moody-Stuart closed his speech by asking conference participants to discuss how businesses in weak govern­ments cari achieve the delicate balance of contributing to the building of stronger govern­ments without allowing the business to run the country. 
"We have, as business, a very strong interest in the sound workings of society," he said. 
Moody-Stuart replaced Annan, who was unable to visit Notre Dame due to scheduling conflicts. Annan did send a message, encour­aging conference participants to work together and with the United Nations to achieve a "fairer, more stable world." 
Annan said the UN, civil society and business have worked together in the past, and he encouraged their future collaboration. 
"Innovative partnerships with the private sector are helping to solve many of the world's most pressing prob­lems including poverty, hunger, water supply and I-IIV/AIDS," Annan said. "Yet there is a great potential to further deepen these collabo­rations." 
Conference participants included representatives from various companies, including General Electric, The Coca­Cola Company and Bristol­
Assistant Vice President for News and Information Dennis Brown said Student Atl'airs noti­fied the rector of Pasquerilla East Hall, Breyan Tornifolio, immediately. 
"Because Caitlin resided in Pasquerilla East for three years, we are anticipating that her death will be very upsetting for that community," Poorman said. 
The University will continue to provide assistance, he said. 
"On behalf of the entire Notre Dame community, I want to express our shock and deep sor­row at the passing of Caitlin Brann," Jenkins said in the University statement. "We offer heartfelt condolences to her parents, her sister· and her brother." 

A wake was held Sunday at Sheehy & Sons Funeral Home in Orland Park. A funeral Mass was said this morning at St. Elizabeth Seton Catholic Church, · also in Orland Park. 
Plans for a campus memorial service are pending, the University statement said. 
Mary Kate Malone contributed to this story. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 




BOIES PLUS 
Between Burlington Coat Factory and Hobby lobby in the Wilshire Plaz 
Shipping-largest selection of shippers in the area 
WE OFFER FAST AND FRIENDLY LOCAL SERVICE
Packaging-largest selection of boxes in the area 

LIKE GRANDMA's CHINA... Gift, jewerly and custom-made WE WRAP IT LIKE OUR OWN shipping packages and boxes NEED TO MOVE? CoME SEE US AND 
Rental boxes tor local movers 
WE WILL SET YOU UP. 
Packaging Supplies 
WE SHIP ANYTHING, ANYWHHERE IN THE WORLD VIA UPS, FmX, ETC.
Greeting Cards 
Fax & Copy Service WE CAN PACK ANYTHING 
*No Hazardous Materials Shipped. • 



5622 Grape Road Mishawaka, IN 46545 
574-277-5555 FAX 574-277-5594 

Monday, November 13, 2006 
MARKET RECAP Stocks 

Dow }ones  12,108.43  +5.13  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,149 143  1,096  2,335,340,070  

~~~$? 
S&PSOO 1,380.90 +2.57 NIKKB(Tokyo) 4 1lP~I!II;,~:ii' , -._, O~{!)fl FTSf IOO(London) 6,208.40 -23.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  +0.54  +0.23  43.03  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +0.78  +0.16  20.58  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -2.77  -0.15  5.27  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.07  -0.02  29.24  
Treasuries  
I 0-YEAR NOTE.  -1.0 I  -0.047  4.586  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.1 0  -0.005  4.955  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.87  -0.041  4.692  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.74  -0.034  4.566  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.57  59.59  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -6.70  630.10  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -1.85  88.83  
fxcho  Rates  
YEN  117.5800  
EURO  0.7787  
POUND  0.5234  
CANADIAN$  1.1306  

IN BRIEF 

PG&E apologizes for desecrating site 
NEEDLES, Calif. -Pacific Gas & Electric apolo­gized for desecrating the sacred site of an American Indian tribe when it built a $15 million water treatment plant, and it pledged to remove it as soon as another can be built. ' 
California's biggest utility "regrets the spiritual consequences to the tribe" of building the plant at Topock Maze in the Mojave Desert west of the Arizona border, PG&E Chief Executive Thomas King said during a ceremony Thursday. 
The apology was required under an agreement with the 1,100-member Fort Mojave tribe, which dropped a lawsuit against the utility and the California Department of Toxic Substances Control. 
Topock Maze near Needles is claimed by the tribe as part of its heritage. The pattern of pebble berms and furrows forms a series of lines that tribal ancients are believed to have used either as a place of purification or as a pathway for spirits to the afterlife. 
Much of the maze was destroyed by a railroad and a freeway, but about a third remains. 
"We have a responsibility not only to the past and present but to the future," tribal Chairwoman Nora McDowell said. "It wasn't easy getting a corporation to understand, to recognize and to accept this." 
'Borat' maintains box office lead 
LOS ANGELES -A make-believe son of the glo­rious nation of Kazakhstan continues to rule the American box office. 
Sacha Baron Cohen's "Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan" took in $29 million to remain the No. 1 movie for a second straight weekend, distributor 20th Century Fox said Sunday. "Borat" raised its 10-day total to $67.8 million. 
The top three movies remained unchanged from the previous weekend, with Disney's "The Santa Oause 3: The Escape Oause" still in second place with $16.9 million and the Paramount­DreamWorks animated tale "Flushed Away" in third with $16.7 million. 
Sony's Will Ferrell comedy "Stranger Than Fiction" debuted as the best of the weekend's newcomers, placing fourth with $14.1 million. Ferrell plays a meek tax auditor suddenly able to hear the voice of a narrator (Emma Thompson) chronicling his life and impending death. 
THE OBSERVER 



USINESS 
page 7 

PlayStation 3 debuts in Japan 
Consumers brave long lines and short supplies to be among the first owners 
Associated Press 

TOKYO Sony~ PlayStation :~ made its highly anticipated debut in Japan to long lines on Saturday, with local stores selling out their supplies of the video game console in a pattern that's expected to be repeated around the world. 
Throngs of people lined up for hours around Bic Camera, an electronics retailer in downtown Tokyo, to get their hands on one of the consoles. The enthusiasm was so great, clerks with megaphones asked the crowd to stop pushing, warn­ing that all sales would end if there were any injuries. 
"Standing in line today is the only way to make sure I got one," said Takayuki Sato, 30, among the buyers who queued up at Bic Camera, snaking around the building in a complete circle. 
But would-be buyers were turned away even before the store opened at 7 a.m. The retailer refused to say how many machines it had but said it had wrapped up sales of its entire supply by 1 p.m. 
Short supplies were report­ed elsewhere, too. Sanae Saito, a clerk at Yodobashi Camera Co. chain, said her store's stock had already sold out Saturday morning, although she declined to say how many machines were available. the "father of the Game makers, including music players. But it has 
"It's all sold out with the PlayStation," said he was Sony, must recoup the exor­been making progress with a people in line now," she said. thrilled by the reception to bitant development costs for two-year revival by getting "So many people waited in the PS3. the machines by selling soft­back to basics in its con­line." "I am so happy so many ware, and programming the sumer electronics opera­
Plagued with production people are waiting," he said PS3's cutting-edge hardware tions. problems, Sony Corp. has in an informal countdown is an expensive and time­But a major fumble in its managed to ready only ceremony at Bic Camera. consuming task. Only five PS3 business could prove a 100,000 PlayStation 3 'Thank you for waiting from games were on sale for the huge blow at a time when it's machines in time for its late last night. Please enjoy PS3's Japan launch date. seeing its brand image badly debut in Japan. When it goes next-generation entertain­Sony expects to lose $1.7 tarnished by a massive glob­on sale in the United States ment." billion in its gaming division al recall of lithium-ion bat­on Nov. 17, some 400,000 Powered by the new "Cell" in the fiscal year through teries for laptops. PS3 consoles will be avail­computer chip and support­March 2007. In an unprecedented move, able there. The console's ed by the next-generation The red ink is coming at a Sony slashed the price for European launch has been Blu-ray video disc format, time when the Japanese the cheaper PS3 model in pushed back until March. the console delivers nearly electronics and entertain­Japan ahead of its launch by 
It was not immediately movie-like graphics and a mimt company, known for 20 percent to about $420 in clear whether the console realistic gaming experience. the Walkman portable audio what some critics have sold out at all retailers, and Sony will be losing money player and "Spider-Man" scorned as a desperate effort Sony said that information for a some time on each PS3 movies, is struggling to stage to maintain market share in would not be available for sold because of the high costs a comeback. the face of intense competi­several days. for research and production In recent years, Sony has tion with Nintendo Co.'s Wii 
Ken Kutaragi, the head of that went into the highly fallen behind in key products console and Microsoft Corp.'s Sony's game unit known as sophisticated machine. like flat-panel TVs and digital Xbox 360. 

Stocks up slightly after erratic day 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Wall Street closed out an erratic session with a mod­est advance Friday as investors awaited further signs about the health of the economy. Falling oil prices and a contract win for Boeing Co. offered some support to a lackluster market, and the major indexes all ended with solid gains for the week. 
Energy and materials stocks were weaker Friday, while utilities and financials fared better and general­ly moved higher. The muted trading followed a sell-off Thursday after Democrats wrested control of Congress from Republicans and touched off concern about sectors 
from health care to defense. 
"Oil prices have fallen off a bit and that's a positive but there just doesn't seem to be anything to give the markets a boost," said Ed Peters, chief investment officer at PanAgora Asset Management Inc. "I think the market is just taking a rest here." 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 5.13, or 0.04 percent, to 12,108.43. 
Broader stock indicators showed modest advances. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was up 2. 57, or 
0.19 percent, at 1,380.90, and the Nasdaq composite index was up 13.71, or 0.58 percent, at 2,389.72. 
Bonds rose, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note falling to 4.59 percent from 4.63 percent late Thursday. The dollar was mixed against other major cur­rencies, while gold prices fell. 
For the week, the Dow rose 1.02 percent, while the S&P added 1.22 percent and the Nasdaq gained 
2.53 percent, advances achieved largely on the market's upbeat feel­ing about the election the first half of the week. That sentiment gave way to uncertainty Thursday about whether the Democrats would be sympathetic to business issues. 
Light, sweet crude was down $1.57 at $59.59 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange after the International Energy Agency lowered its forecast for worldwide demand this year. 
' 
' 
_ _j 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Monday, November 13, 2006 
"Monologues" did. Daughters" is far less graphic we be able to make the decision noted that she knew several . The 75-minute production than "The Vagina Monologues," as to whether or not 'The students who would be interest­
Show 
continued from page 1 
delivered Jan. 23 and 24 in which he asked faculty and stu­dents whether controversial productions like the "Monologues" -performed on campus the past three years ­belonged at Notre Dame. 
Though the "Monologues" were not prohibited from cam­pus, Weisbecker and senior director Madison Liddy threw their energy into starting "Loyal Daughters" -a production that, they believe, has the potential to start discussion about sexual violence at Notre Dame the same way will be performed at 7:30 p.m. tonight, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. Each perform­ance will be followed by a panel discussion consisting of repre­sentatives from South Bend's 
S.O.S. Rape Crisis Center, the theology, philosophy and anthropology departments, and the University Counseling Center. 
The production is sponsored by the Gender Studies Program as well as the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, which provided grant money for Weisbecker as she conducted her interviews and research this summer. 
Though the content of "Loyal the two productions have a shared goal of encouraging peo­ple to talk about sexual vio­lence. "Loyal Daughters," how­ever, is tied directly to Notre Dame, with students describing real-life experiences of sexual assault and rape on and off eampus. 
If "Loyal Daughters" can manage to generate the "unpar­alleled" attendance, effect, con­troversy and dialogue that the "Monologues" did, then it eould eliminate the need for Eve Ensler's play, Liddy said. 
"We are waiting to see how 'Loyal Daughters' is perceived and to gauge student interest," Weisbecker said. "Only then will Vagina Monologues' will contin­ue." 
Like "The Vagina Monologues," "Loyal Daughters" is prohibited from generating charity money -a frustrating fact for Liddy and Weisbecker, who said they were told they could not fundraise because the production is "an academic event," Liddy said. 
"It's sueh a simple, obvious way to pay for our own expense and be able to donate to chari­ty," Weisbecker said. 
Knowing they won't be able to do so, though, has made both students "not as intent" on organizing the "Monologues" again, Liddy said. However, she ed in taking over the leadership of the "Monologues" in the spring. 
Weisbecker said she hopes "Loyal Daughters" will "inspire people to be a part of the solu­tion" to the problem of sexual violence at Notre Dame. 
'These are issues that directly affect students at the University of Notre Dame," Liddy said. "Whether it be stories of their friends or even people they don't know.... It's very neces­sary for (people] to see what's going on here." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
Abroad study on rise in U.S. 

Associated Press American college students are becoming more adventuresome as they study abroad, showing less interest in English-speaking destinations such as Great Britain and Australia and more in such alternatives as China, India, Argentina and Brazil. Britain remained the most pop­ular study destination last year, according to annual figures due for release Monday by the Institute of International Education, followed by Italy, Spain and France. But the number of U.S. students studying in Britain and Australia declined slightly, even as the number of American students abroad rose eight percent overall to 205,983 in 2005. The growth came in non-English speaking European countries and in Asia, which still attracts lower numbers overall but is growing rapidly. China is now the eighth most popular destination for American students, attracting nearly 6,400 last year, up 35 percent from the year before. Though still compa­rably small at around 2,000 stu­dents per year, Argentina and India saw increases of more than 50 percent. ''I'm sure my friends and family would say 'Why did you pick Africa, a poor country, why don't you go to Europe or somewhere more glamorous?"' said Xinh Pham, a Michigan State student who took part in a university­sponsored program to study nutrition in Tanzania last sum­mer. The trip was "a great way to dip my feet into Africa," and "it totally changed my views of the world," she said. Allan Goodman, president of the Institute of International Education, said a range of factors contributed to the trend, from growing awareness of globaliza­tion after the Sept. 11, 2001, ter­rorist attacks to programs such as President Bush's National Security Language Initiative, which trains soldiers, intelligence officers and diplomats in foreign languages. "What Americans are doing is waking up and discovering there's a world out there," he said. Still, it is not clear that most stu­dents are getting genuine immer­sion experiences. More than half (56 percent) who study abroad do so only for summer terms or other programs lasting less than 



Fulls 
ahead. 
We remove the barriers. so you can accelerate your career. We've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. At Ernst &Young, we're recognized for our inclusive culture that expects everyone to contribute and everyone to grow. Stop just long enough to visit us on campus, or at ey.com/us/careers. 
FORTUNE'" 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~ 
one semester. Pham's program lasted just a few weeks. Only six Quality In Everything We Do percent study abroad a full year. 
Monday, November 13, 2006 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
PALESTINE 

Fortner leader retnetnbered by inspired party tnetnbers 
Associated Press RAMALLAH-Tens of thou­
sands of Palestinians converged on Yasser Arafat's gravesite Saturday to mark the second 
anniversary of his death in a rally meant to reinvigorate his faltering Fatah Party. 
Arafat's successor, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, told the crowd he expected to reach a long-delayed deal on forming a joint government with the mili­tant Hamas group by the end of the month. Hamas officials also said a deal was close. 
Abbas hopes the unity govern­ment will end crippling econom­ic sanctions imposed by the United States and other Western countries for the Hamas-led gov­ernment's refusal to recognize Israel and renounce violence. 
Fatah, whose January election loss to Hamas ended its four­decade domination of Palestinian politics, bused thou­sands of people to the West Bank city of Ramallah for the Arafat memoriaL 
Carrying Palestinian flags, Fatah banners and pictures of Arafat, the crowd marched to the muqaata, the compound that served as the late leader's head­quarters and where he spent the last years of his life. 
Top Palestinian officials laid wreaths at the glass shrine atop Arafat's grave inside the com­pound and read verses from the Quran, the Muslim holy book. The mass of people, many wear­ing the black and white scarf symbolic of Fatah, jostled for room inside the crowded court­yard. A massive picture of Arafat stood nearby. 
Abbas reiterated Palestinians' demand for a state in the West Bank, Gaza Strip and east Jerusalem, pledging to "main­tain Arafat's will." 
Addressing the late leader, he said: "You inspired us by your long national roots, by your wise leadership, by your persistent, honest commitment. That's what 





Students 
FlvCheaper 
Sample Fares from South Bend to: 
Atlanta  $202  
New York  $202  
San Francisco  $272  

Sample Fares from Chicago to: 
Mexico  $291  
Madrid  $321  
Amsterdam  $371  


GOLDEN 
DRAGON 
CHINESE FOOD TO CARRY OUT OR DINE IN 

54533 Terraee Lane. #R, Soutlt Bend, IN 46635 
(SCafe Rd. ~3 &. Ironwood) 
Tel: (574) 27.l-8899 27.l-3399 
We're open on .Thanksgiving Day! 
Fast Delivery! Lunch Special only $4.75 7 days a week from 11 am-3pm 

BUY ONE COMBINATION PLATE get a second combination plate for 1/2 price! 
of equal or lesser value one coupon per visit mention this coupon when ordering and 
present coupon upon purchase · expires 11/22/06 
Palestinians hold a portrait of the late Vasser Arafat during a memorial to mark the second anniversary of Arafat's death in the West Bank town of Nablus Sunday. 
fills us with determination to go ahead and fulfill our national goals, the national goals that you worked for." 
As a leader, Arafat inspired great emotions in both his sup­porters and detractors. Israel saw him as a terrorist, and some of his people viewed him as deeply corrupt. But many Palestinians saw him as their best hope for achieving an inde­pendent state, 
"There was no leader like him in the Arab world. He was the strongest and the bravest," said Ibrahim Hamidan, 15, who carne to the ceremony from a refugee camp near Jericho. "He was a symbol for all Arabs. He is the only one who stood against Israel and America." 
Arafat, who dominated Palestinian politics for nearly four decades, died on Nov. 11, 2004, after. a sudden, rapid decline in his health. 
More than a year after his 
death, his Fatah Party lost a par­liamentary election to Hamas, a militant Islamic group that calls for Israel to be replaced with an Islamic state. 
Last year's commemoration of Arafat's death -months before Fatah's electoral drubbing -was staid and lightly attended. But with Fatah leaders hoping to use Arafat as a potent nationalist symbol to reinvigorate the party, the gathering Saturday was larg­er and more emotional. 
IRAQ 

Rising death tolls generate chaos 
Associated Press 

About half of them are unidenti­BAGHDAD Baghdad's fied bodies discovered on city morgues are full. streets or floating in the Tigris 
With no space to store bodies, River. some victims of the sectarian The United Nations estimates slaughter are not being kept for about 100 violent deaths daily relatives to claim, but pho­and the Iraqi health minister last tographed, numbered and quick­week put civilian deaths over the ly interred in government ceme­entire 44 months since the U.S. teries. Men fearful of an anony­invasion at about 150,000­mous burial are tattooing their close to the U.N. figure and about thighs with names three times the and phone num-previously accepted bers. estimates of 
In October, a 45,000-50,000.
"The clerk told me 
particularly bloody In morgues
to dig through 
month for Iraqi across Iraq where civilians, about them until I found capacity stretches 1,600 bodies were my brother. I had beyond thin, bodies turned in at the are even being
to lift [the bodies] 
Baghdad central turned away. morgue, said its offuntil I found "We have to director, Dr. Abdul­him.'' reject them," Hadi Razaq al-Obaidi. al-Itabi of the The city's network morgue in Kut,
Abbas Beyat
of morgues, built southeast of to hold 130 bodies Iraqi Baghdad, said he 
at most, now holds 
more than 500, he 
says . 
Bodies are sent for burial every three or four days just to make room for the daily intake, some­times making corpse identifica­tion impossible. 
"We can't remove all the bodies just so that one can be identified and then put them all back in again," al-Obaidi said. "We sim­ply don't have the staff." 
Al-Obaidi said the daily crush of relatives is an emotional and logistical burden. 
"Every day, there are crowds of women outside .weeping, yelling and flailing in grief. They're all looking for their dead sons and I don't know how the computer or we will bear up," he said. 
While no one knows how many Iraqis have died, daily tallies of violent deaths by The Associated Press average nearly 45 a day. 
told men who 
turn_ed in the bod­
ies of six slain bor­der policeman last week. "We just don't have enough cold stor­age." 
Iraq's bureaucracy of death is overwhelmed. The task of identi­fying and interring bodies is all the more difficult because of the clandestine nature of the killings: Increasingly, Iraqis are being killed far from home and in secret, the victims of kidnappers and sectarian death squads. 
With nowhere else to look when a friend or loved-one goes missing, family members first check the local morgue. 
Abbas Beyat's joined the line outside Baghdad's central morgue after his ·brother Hussein disappeared a month ago while driving through the mainly Sunni town of Tarmiyah, 30 miles north of Baghdad. The family had already paid a $60,000 ransom to an intermediary who then disap­peared with the money. 
"There were three piles, each with about 20 bodies," Beyat, 56, said, describing the scene inside the morgue. 
"The clerk told me to dig through them until I found my brother. I had to lift them off until I found him," he said. Uke many of those abducted, Hussein Beyet bore the marks of torture, with holes from an electrical drill visi­ble in his skull, Beyat said. 
Others never find their loved ones' bodies at all. 
The fear of leaving the bereaved without a corpse to bury is so strong that some Iraqi men now tattoo their names, phone numbers and other identi­fYing information on their upper thighs, despite Islam's strict dis­approval against such practices. 
On the day he turned away the border policemen's bodies, Al­Itabi said Kut's morgue had already buried 15 unidentified corpses pulled from the Tigris River, all of them bound, bullet­riddled, and heavily decomposed. 
The government cemetery in Kut, opened on Sept. 24, already holds the graves of 135 unidenti­fied victims. 
Hundreds of such bodies have been fished ashore at the town of Suwayrah where they are snagged in nets stretched across the Tigris to prevent river weed spreading into the surrounding canal network. 
Most of the dead are mutilated by torture, a practice common on all sides, but especially prevalent among Shiite murder gangs that have snatched thousands of Sunnis from their homes and neighborhoods since the Feb. 22 bombing of an important Shiite shrine in Sarnarra, north of Baghdad. 

----~-~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 13, 2006 

Bishops to re-evaluate focus of -work, funds 
Sociopolitical issues abandoned in new plan 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE -There was a time when the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops was a powerful 
force for bringing the church's moral teachings to bear on national policy debates. In the 1970s, the bishops led the fight against abortion after Roe v. Wade. During the Cold War, they drew international notice when they questioned the morality of nuclear deterrence. 
But the bishops now face a dif­ferent world -one where their moral authority has been dimin­ished by the clergy sex abuse cri­sis, where money for church pro­grams is scarce and where many American Catholics have little understanding of. or regard for, church teaching. 
At a national meeting starting Monday in Baltimore, the bishops are expected to make changes that adjust to their new circum­stances. They will channel resources away from broad social pronouncements and focus more on defining Catholicism for an often uninvolved flock. 
"It's not that the bishops as a national organization will no longer be interested in sociopoliti­cal issues," said Russell Shaw, a writer on Roman Catholic issues who spent more than 15 years as a spokesman for the conference. "But the emphasis is shifting to the life of the church itself and its own internal problems." 
The new focus is clear from the agenda for this week's gathering. 
The bishops will vote on docu­ments explaining the church's ban on artificial contraception and worthiness for receiving Holy Communion. The prelates will also consider new guidelines on ministry to gay Catholics, which explain the theological underpin­nings of church teaching that marriage should be limited to one man and one woman. 
In addition, the bishops will take up a proposed restructuring of the conference's Washington head­quarters to reflect their new prior­ities. Under the plan, American dioceses would send less money to the conference, which would in turn cut jobs and committees. 
For many Catholics, the changes are long overdue. Bishops have complained for years that the funds they turn over for confer­ence work are badly needed in their home dioceses. Others con­sider the large staff unnecessary, a hangover from the conference's heyday in the early 1980s, when revered Chicago Cardinal Joseph Bernardin was guiding its work and the prelates undertook such ambitious projects as the pa..<;toral letter on nuclear war called "The Challenge of Peace." 
"Some of the younger bishops are less formed by the bureaucra­cy and are more suspicious of it, and more likely to want to have more direct ways of responding to crises," said Helen I lull Hitchcock, director of Women for Faith & Family, which represents tradi­tional Catholics. 
But critics see the turn inward as disturbing. The Hev. Thomas Heese, former editor of the Jesuit magazine America, noted that the agenda included no mention of the war in Iraq, although bishops could still raise the topic from the floor. 

Officials believe Castro suffering fron1 cancer 
80-year-old Cuban leader's health questionable 
Associated Press  of anonymity because they were  
WASHINGTON -The govern­ not authorized to speak publidy  
ment believes Fidel Castro's health  about the politically sensitive  
is deteriorating and that the  topic.  
Cuban dictator is unlikely to live  With chemotherapy, Ca..<;tro may  
through 2007.  live up to 18 months, said the  
That dire  defense official. Without it, expect­ 
view was rein­ ed survival would drop to three  
forced last  months to eight months.  
week when  American officials will not talk  
Cuba's foreign  publicly about how they glean  
minister  clues to Castro's health. But U.S.  
backed away  spy agencies include physicians  
from his pre­ who study pictures, video, public  
diction that  statements and other information  
the ailing  coming out of Cuba.  
CastroCastro would  The CIA's Office of Medical  
return to  Services, for example, studies hair  
power by early December. "It's a  and other biological samples for  
subject on which I don't want to  hints about world leaders' health  
speculate," Felipe Perez Hoque  and how that could affect their  
told The Associated Press in  official duties.  
Havana.  Images and video of a weakened  
U.S. government officials say  Castro released in late October  
there is still some mystery about  showed his now-slight frame and  
Castro's diagnosis, his treatment  shaky movements. They contra­ 
and how he is responding. But  dicted the athletic image he  
these officials believe that the 80­ sought to portray in his red, white  
year-old has terminal cancer of  and blue Cuban Olympic team  
the stomach, colon or pancreas.  warm-up suit, emblazoned with  
He was seen weakened and  "F. Castro" on the chest.  
thinner in official state photos  A dark lesion on his neck could  
released late last month, and it is  be seen in some images and a  
considered unlikely that he will  baggy nylon jacket could be hiding  
return to power or survive  a colostomy bag. But the photos  
through the end of next year, said  also made clear that he has not  
the U.S. government and defense  lost his hair or beard to  
officials. They spoke on condition  chemotherapy.  

Department of Music Presents 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 



CHORALE 
& CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR 
BEETHOVEN )' BACH )' WAGNER )' DEBUSSY 
8:00P.M. 

SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2006 
FOLLOWING THE ARMY GAME 
SPECIAL OFFER TO FOOTBALL FANS: 
PRESENT FOOTBALL GAME TICKET STUB AT 
DPAC BOX OFFICE FOR 
50% DISCOUNT ON GENERAL ADMISSION TICKET 
LEIGHTON CONCERT 1-!All 

MARIE P. DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 
Tickets ~10, ~8, ~6, ~3 

phone 574-631-2800 or buy on-line at http:ffperformlngarts.nd.edu 
~DEBARTOLO
v 
PERFORMINGARTSCENTER 
2007-2008 

RESIDENT ASSISTANT APPLICATIONS 
will be available in the 
Office ofStudent Affairs 

316 Main Building beginning Monday, November 13,2006 
through 
Friday, January 19, 2007 

Applications will also be available for downloading and printing at bttp·//nsa nd Nlu or 
http://osa.nd.(~du/join hall staft'/ra.shtml 



Monday, November 13, 2006 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Waltzing fosters rehabilitation 
Study finds innovative cardiac program entertains, promotes healing 
Associated Press CHICAGO Italian researchers have come up with a novel way for cardiac rehabilitation patients to exer­cise their damaged hearts without having to squeeze into spandex or gyrate in a gym: waltzing. The dance proved to be just as effective as bicycle and treadmill training for improv­ing exercise capacity in a study of 110 heart failure patients. Dancers also report­ed slightly more improvement in sleep, mood, and the ability to do hobbies, do housework and have sex than the others. "This may be a more effec­tive way of getting people to exercise, and may be more fun than running on a tread­mill," said Dr. Robert Bonow, cardiology chief at Northwestern University School of Medicine. "Maybe we should try that here. I'm not sure we can get Americans to waltz, but they can certainly dance." Exercise is crucial after peo­ple suffer heart problems, but getting people to stick with it is tough. As many as 70 per­cent drop out of traditional programs, said Dr. Romualdo Belardinelli, director of car­diac rehabilitation at Lancisi Heart Institute in Ancona, Italy. . "We have to find something that may capture the patients' interest," he said Sunday at an 

American Heart Association meeting in Chicago where he presented results of his study. 
They chose waltzing because it is "internationally known" and is quite aerobic, as the study ultimately verified, he said. 
The same researchers previ­ously showed that waltzing could help heart attack suffer­ers regain strength. The new study involved 89 men and 11 women, average age 59, with heart failure. The condition occurs when weakened hearts can no longer pump blood effectively, making simple activities like climbing stairs and taking the dog for a walk tough to do, let alone enjoy. 
Researchers assigned 44 

patients to a supervised exer­cise training program of cycling and treadmill work three times a week for eight weeks. Another group of 44 took dance classes in the hos­pital gym, alternating between slow and fast waltzes for 21 minutes, three times a week for eight weeks. A third group of 22 patients had no exercise. 
Heart rates were checked during both activities, more extensive exercise tests were done at the start and end of the study, and artery imaging exams were performed. 
Cardiopulmonary fitness increased at similar rates among those who danced or exercised and did not change in those who did neither. 
Hospitals cooperate to i111prove treabnent 
Faster responses for heart attack patients 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Hundreds of hospitals around the country are joining the most ambitious project ever undertaken to give faster emergency room care to people suffering major heart attacks. 
Fewer than one-third of such patients now get their blocked arteries reopened within 90 minutes of arrival, as guide­lines recommend. The risk of dying goes up 42 percent if care is delayed even half an hour longer. 
"There's a very, very large opportunity here to improve patient care," said Dr. John Brush, a Norfolk, Va., heart specialist who helped the American College of Cardiology design the new project, which is to be launched today at an American Heart Association conference in Chicago. 
Jim Kern, 4 7, of Norfolk, experienced both extremes. When he had his first heart attack on Aug. 22, he endured excruciating pain while filling out mundane paperwork and waiting as triage nurses changed shifts. It took nearly four hours to get proper care. 
When he had a second attack on Oct. 30 -after the hospital adopted new rapid­care measures -doctors "were there within 15 minutes of the time I hit the door and were already starting to do the prep," Kern said. "The atten­tion and everything I was given was a difference of day and night." 
Major medical groups and government agencies have endorsed the project, including the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, whose director, Dr. Elizabeth Nabel, called it the biggest heart care initiative since paramedics were trained to do CPR in the early 1990s. 
It targets heart attacks caused by a total or near-total blockage of a major artery that prevents enough oxygen from reaching the heart tissue. About a third of the 865,000 heart attacks in the United States each year and 10 mil­lion worldwide are of this type. 
The preferred remedy is angioplasty, in which doctors snake a tube through a blood vessel in the groin to the block­age. A tiny balloon is inflated to flatten the crud, and a mesh scaffold called a stent usually is placed to prop the artery open. 
Guidelines have long called for a "door-to-balloon" time of 90 minutes, "but we just haven't engineered our emer­gency rooms to cut out some of these steps that aren't needed" and cause delays, Nabel said. 

"Robert Hugh Benson: Anticipating the Apocalypse" 
David Solomon 
Professor of Philosophy at the University of Notre Dame, Director of the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture 
Tuesday, November 14 DeBartolo Hall Room 155 
8:00 PM 

For more nformat on go to eth cscenter.nd.edu 

Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture's Catholic Culture Series 

THE OBSERVER 











IEWPOINT
page 12 
Monday, November 13, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

But why is all the Rummy gone? 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rarna Gotturnukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rpbert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kare Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 

oBsERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, induding advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chie£ Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Querrions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer-(USPS 599 24000) is publishe-d Monday thruugh Frid.ry except during exam and vacation _pt:riod&. A subscription to The Olucrvcr is .$100 for one ~ernie year; $55 fur .one semester. 
The Observer is pubUsh«l at! POSTMASTER 
02:4 South Dining Hall &nd. ~ddresli oorncrions co: Notre D;une.IN 465564779 111< Obscmr Periodka.l pt'lst:age paid at Nottt Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 Sourh Dinins Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 465%-0779 

Tht: ObSCTVcr is a member ofthe Associated Press. All .reproduction rights are rescrn:d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Graphics Laura Madeline Nies Baumgartner Sports Joe Piarulli Jay Fitzpatrick Steve Kerins Dan Murphy Viewpoint Michael Bryan Lianna Scene Brauweiler Cassie Belek 
This past week's events marked one of the greatest breakups in American his­tory. It's been all over the papers and the Internet; there's no way you could have missed it. W. called up Hummy and told him that it just wasn't working out anymore, that something had to give and that their time together was over. 
And just like that, Bush had dumped Humsfeld like Britney dumped K-Fed. Just asK-Fed had cameras rolling as the news of his divorce was text messaged to him dur­ing the taping of a reality show, Bush broke the news during a press confer­ence following a dramatic Democrats' sweep of a number of mid-term elec­tions to take power in the House and Senate. Both K-Fed and Rumsfeld were called out on getting by based on their unfounded facades of optimism for suc­cess (over a rap album and a war, respectively) and having spouses or friends in high places. I guess some­times that's just not enough to cover up blatant incompetence and inadequacy. 
The main difference between the two cases is that there is no custody battle over Bush and Rumsfeld's three-year old child, Quagmire (although it should be noted that some investigatory jour­nalists attribute the paternity of Quagmire to Cheney, not Bush). Robert Gates, former CIA director under George H.W. Bush and 26-year intelli­gence veteran, has been nominated as the guardian-to-be of Quagmire. Is there a worse job in the administration right now than being the guy who is sent in to clean up the mess that this administra­tion has crafted, executed and exacer-

Will 
McAuliffe 
Strategery Analyst 

bated for years? 
Gates' extensive experience with the intelligence community will undoubtedly be a fresh change from Humsfeld's know-it-all micromanagement style, repeatedly rnbufling intelligence advi­sors whose analysis did not conveniently support his own assertions about what actions should be taken and why. However, regardless of Gates' creden­tials, Iraq is a mess. Both sides of the aisle are finally in agreement on this. While there is still major disagreement over what needs to be done, I feel that by letting Humsfeld out to pasture, the first big step has been taken towards reaching any kind of bipartisan agree­ment. 
However, Gates is in for a rough two years. Let's face it, there's no way that a timetable that dictates redeployment/retreat/removaVpick­your-favorite-buzzword of U.S. troops will take any real heat ofl' of the admin­istration or the future administrations. The seeds for future terrorism have been sewn throughout Lebanon, Palestine, Iraq, Iran, Saudi Arabia and Pakistan, just to name a few, by this administration's choices of action and inaction. 
After all, it's only a matter of time, on our present course, that U.S. embassies or personnel are hit outside of Iraq itself by a major Al Qaeda attack launched from their'newly created division within Iraq. That day will reveal the ultimate tragic irony that we are currently marching towards. That will be the day that we realize that the United States had ignored history and common sense in its approach to "nation-building" and "pre-emptive war." 
I know my outlook on homeland secu­rity is downright cynical and fatalistic but it is marked with a growing tinge of optimism in new leadership. It's not too late to change our present course and start drafting foreign policy that makes 
sense for the U.S. both now and in the 
future. Hopefully new leadership within 
the Congress, a resurgence of biparti­
sanship, and a shift of key figures within 
the administration (I don't think that the 
pink slips are done being doled out in 
the White House) will remind the 
administration of the failure of Vietnam, 
the Iran-Contra scandal, the arming of 
militants in Afghanistan to overthrow 
the Soviets back in the day (which lead 
to the rise of Osama bin Laden as a 
leader) and the price of ignoring 
humanitarian conflicts such as the 
genocide in the Darfur region of Sudan 
(Sudan being the failed state of choice 
for Osama to initially set up AI Qaeda 
operations back in 1991 ). 
Rumsfeld and Bush have both identi­
fied "how they are seen in history" as 
their metric of choice for their success. 
They ignore present public opinion and 
popularity polls in favor of what will 
prove to be best in the long run. 
Ironically, it seems that they are the 
ones that clearly need the history les­
sons. If they aren't paying attention to 
the lessons that past military interven­
tions and campaigns have to teach, then 
history will likely not end up judging 
them any better than those responsible 
for crafting failed foreign policies in the 
past. 
I only wonder if Bush went so far to 
use the infamous "it's not you, it's me" 
line when he broke it off with Rumsfeld. 
Somehow I doubt that truth will come 
out for a couple more years. 
Will McAuliffe is a senior political sci­
ence major with a serious love for The 
Colbert Report and Fox News, Chris · Wallace in particular. All letters ofsup­
port, disdain or otherwise relevant com­
mentary should be forwarded to him at 
wmcaulij@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this article are 
those ofthe author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
Do you plan to see "Loyal Daughters?" 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Submit aLetter 


to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You can learn little from victory. You can learn everything from defeat. " 
Christy Mathewson baseball player 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Monday, November 13, 2006 page 13 
LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Da bum_s' threvv them_selves out 
All in all, I don't really agree with Gary Caruso's column ("Throwing 'da bums' out of Congress," Nov. 10). Caruso lists several reasons for why the vot­ers of this country wanted a change, and none of them are right. About three weeks ago, I got a letter from the Jackson County Circuit Clerk Office con­taining my absentee ballot. I performed my civic duty with a smile on my face and sent my ballot back to Mississippi. 
I, like most Americans, was watching some of the election coverage on the television when my dad called me to tell me for whom he had voted. Indeed, he had written in our dog for United States Senator and a coworker of his for United States Congressman. It got me laughing at first, but then I began to wonder how many other people felt like this. True that the Bush tax cuts have · helped foster economic growth and unemployment rates contin­ue to drop, but this administra­tion continues to spend and spend. True that intelligence is getting better against a formida­ble enemy, and we are stopping terror plots, but this administra­tion refuses to look to our bor­der and secure it for the safety of the citizens and legal aliens of this country. True that people who have been involved in scan­dal and corruption are brought to justice, but this administra­tion refuses to prosecute those people who circumvented through national security leaks. 
I remember voting in 2002 and again in 2004 with so much hope for what could have been. The conservative agenda came a long way, but it didn't go far enough. So when it came time to vote, we didn't throw 'da Republican bums' out of Congress; they did it them­selves. 
Bob Polchow grad student off campus Nov. 10 

Vote for Quinn 
I don't know how many people· are aware of this, as I myself was not until today, but Nissan, the sponsoring corporation for the Heisman Trophy, has the ability to cast one vote deciding the win­ner. As the benevolent company that they are, they have decided to pass this vote onto the public and allow people to vote online to decide for themselves. As was made evident after I voted and saw the results, not many Notre Dame fans seem to know about this as Brady Quinn currently holds only 2 percent of the vote. Troy Smith holds a commanding lead, followed by Steve Slaton of West Virginia and McFadden of Arkansas. Slaton holds votes in the hundreds of thousands, while Quinn has around 2,500. 
The site allows voting only once per week, but I propose that we as a Notre Dame community get behind this vote to ensure that Quinn gets recognition for the hard work that he has put in this year both on and off the field, as success does not come just by showing up on Saturday (especially for a quarterback). Surely a school like Notre Dame has the combined fan power to cast some votes in meaningful numbers to change the current state of the fan poll. 
Michael Mashura 
sophomore 
Dillon Hall 
Nov. 12 

'Loyal Daughters' begins 
Dear Notre Dame community, 
Rape happens at Notre Dame, and it happens more than you might think. In order to stop the violence, we must break the silence. More than 55 of your classmates and professors have come forward with their stories and perspectives on sexuality and sexual assault, so that you might develop a better understanding of the campus sexual culture, and thus get involved in making Notre Dame a safer place for all of us. 
"Loyal Daughters" is a student-run production taking place at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center today through Thursday, and it's worth your time. To those who oppose and protest "The Vagina Monologues," I urge you to attend. We address similar themes of sexuality and sexual violence, but the focus is entirely on the truth about Notre Dame. If "The Vagina Monologues" bothered you, "Loyal Daughters" should be far more upsetting, not because it is or isn't appropriate or offensive, but because it's real, it's here, and it's now. Sexual violence isn't unique to Notre Dame, but here at Our Lady's University, we have the unique capacity to develop effective solutions. It all starts here. See you at the show. 
Emily Weisbecker senior Lyons Hall Nov. 10 
U-WIRE 




Cam_paign ads sham_eless 
If you've been watching television, then you saw a controversial political ad featuring Michael J. Fox asking viewers to vote for one of three Democratic candidates who support stem cell research -Senate challenger Claire McCaskill of Missouri, Gov. Jim Doyle of Susan Page Wisconsin or Rep. Benjamin L. Cardin of Northern Maryland. Michigan 
Before the onset of University Parkinson's disease, The North Jtttlnd which caused him to retire in 2000, Fox was best known for his starring role as Marty McFly in the "Back to the Future" trilogy. In the pro-stem cell ad, symptoms of Fox's disease are obvious due to his inability to remain still for even a brief moment of-time. 
So obvious that conservative Rush Limbaugh has made allegations that Fox did not take his medication in order to exaggerate the effects of his disease ·Or that he was merely acting. He went so far as to "demonstrate" by flailing his arms and head around while making the accusations. 
"Michael J. Fox is allowing his illness to be exploited and in the process is shilling for a Democrat politician," Limbaugh said. Thus, he made this a partisan issue. 
If Limbaugh had done a little research, he would've discovered that Fox taped ads in 2004 in support of Republican Sen. Arlen Specter of Pa. and volunteered to do these political ads because stem cell research is very important to him. 
Stem cells are unspecialized cells that can replenish themselves as well as become cells with special functions-such as insulin-pro­ducing cells of the pancreas -under experi­mental conditions. With further research, stem cells can be used to treat many different conditions through cell-based therapies that can help people with certain diseases like Parkinson's. 
Some of these stem cells can be induced to become DA neurons, a special cell that pro­duces dopamine in the brain, which would help patients of Parkinson's with improved motor function, according to the National Institutes of Health. 
A medical advancement in cell-based thera­pies could help Fox and others cope with the symptoms of diseases such as Parkinson's without some of the side-effects that drug therapies can induce-such as Fox's twitch­ing due to overmedication, as he stated in an interview with Katie Couric on Oct. 26. 
"Disease is a non-partisan problem that requires a bipartisan solution," Fox told the CBS Evening News anchor. "I don't really care about politics." 
To counter Fox's star power ad, the Missourians Against Human Cloning (MAHC) began airing their own star-filled commercial against Amendment 2. 
Their ad, which was obviously hastily patched together, begins with Jim Caviezel, who starred as Jesus in "Passion of the Christ," speaking in Aramaic for no apparent reason. 
Caviezel says, "You betray the Son of Man with a kiss." The same phrase is said to Judas in the Bible when talking of Judas's ultimate betrayal that leads to Jesus's death, which the average person wouldn't know since they did not include any subtitles. After Caviezel, more celebrities made appearances to tell viewers "Don't be fooled." 
Only instead of being separated by labels like Democrats and Republicans, we are now labeled Liberal Atheists and Conservative Christians. Perhaps the MAHC should have had Caviezel say, ''I'm Jesus and I approve this message." 
Last Tuesday, Missouri voters narrowly passed Amendment 2 by a margin of 28,000 votes. 
I guess Marty McFly's commercial was more compelling than Jesus's. Or maybe the people of Missouri are "Teen Wolf' fans. 
This column originally appeared in the Nov. 10 edition ofthe North Wznd, the daily publi­r;ation at Northern Michigan University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
...THS COURT HAVE FOUND YOU GUILTY 

SO, WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO DO?! SHOOT ME?! HANG ME?! 
OF CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY 
HENCE, YOU Will BE SENTENCED TO DEATH! 
"-----­


WORSE. YOU'll BE GIVEN 




THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 14 
Monday, November 13, 2006 
CONCERT REVIEW 

Ben Folds engages energetic crowd at Stepan 
Popular singer-songwriter entertains with extensive musical library 



Corn Mo plays the accordian during his opening act. The musician toured with Polyphonic Spree and They Might be Giants before teaming with Ben Folds in 2005. 
Folds holds up part of his piano after it apparently broke on stage. The singer­songwriter has been playing the piano since age nine. 
By ANALISE LIPARI Assistant Scene Editor 
The pop-infused stylings of the multi­talented Ben Folds quickly won over stu­dents at the Student Union Board's big fall concert Friday night at the Stepan Center. Folds' infectious personality and extensive library of songs attracted a sold-out audience to what will likely be the highlight of SUB's fall schedule. 
The opening act, the Meatloaf-esque and accordion-playing Corn Mo (a stage name for singer John Cunningham), set an irreverent and off-kilter tone to the evening with songs describing both time travel and lollipops. His glam-rock per­formance contrasted with Folds' earthier sensibilities, but was less a detraction than an amusing detour. 
Folds opened with "Trusted," ofT of his 2005 solo album "Songs for Silverman," immediately grabbing the interest of a ready audience. Sing-alongs between Folds and the crowd began with "Trusted" and continued throughout the night, adding to the contagious atmos­phere and creating a cheerful rapport between Folds and the audience that would carry through the entirety of his performance. 
The bespectacled, scrufry-haired Folds endeared himself to the audience with his sense of humor and personable atti­tude throughout the show. Dressed casu­more contemplative and musically ally and with a welcome lack of pretense, relaxed than others performed that Folds was an engaging, likeable per­evening, effectively changed the tone of former who carried the nearly one-man concert for a brief but welcome break show with his effortless and genuinely between more energetic tracks. happy attitude. Periodically making ref­Later in the performance, Folds cov­erence to the "geodesic dome" that is the ered a Dr. Dre song in his personal, 

Stepan Center, he joked  piano-centric fashion.  
with the crowd and set a fun tone for the night. Folds performed a vari­ety of well-known songs  The bespectacled, scruffy-haired Folds endeared himself to the  llearing the king of the suburbs embrace a typi­cally urban style of music, in typical "male,  
from the impressively vast  audience with his  middle class and white"  
annals of his musical career, drawing from dif­ferent albums to create a  sense ofhumor and personable attitude  fashion, was a humor­ous and irreverent move on Folds' part, and his  
set list that was both rec­ throughout the show.  cheeky take on the rap  

ognizable and well planned. Popular favorites such as "Annie Waits" were played with gusto, as Folds hammered notes out on both piano and synthesizer to create a whirlwind of ear-catching and well­played sound. 
The concert changed pace musically several times, as Folds began strongly with "Trusted" and slowed halfway through the show. Prefacing that portion of the concert with a quick comment about songs of advice and love, Folds performed "The Luckiest" and "Mr. Jones Part 2," both off of his critically and financially successful first solo album, "Rockin' the Suburbs," originally released in 2001. Both of these tracks, hit was terrific. 

One unexpected and pleasanlly surprising song of the night was Folds' cover of the Postal Service's "Such Great !!eights." Taking a difrerent detour from the original material than Iron and Wine, who also remade this particular track recently, Folds used his piano and synthesizer capabilities to put his own spin on the recognizable song. 
llis sweetly charming, Everyman-type voice -not unlike that of indie-tronica mastermind and Postal Service founding member Ben Gibbard, but unique in its own right -fit the song perfectly and sparked an uproar from the audience. While the general impression of any cover implies being of lesser quality, this in particular was lovely and well played. 
During multiple songs, Folds actively encouraged audience participation, at one point instructing different vocal ranges to sing parts of a four-part har­mony, and at another for the left and right halves of the .crowd to impersonate saxophones and trumpets, respectively. Laboring to encourage the crowd to par­ticipate was almost unnecessary, howev­er, as Folds attracted positive reactions from both long-time fans and newcomers in the crowd. 
Folds may be one among many artists on today's musical scene, but as Friday's eoncert proved, he is by far one of the most popular on the college circuit. Originally touring campuses with his nineties-era band, Ben Folds Five, Folds is continually growing in popularity among university students thanks to his indie sensibilities, likeable pnrsonality, afrecting lyrics and sheer musical talent. 
It is the recognizable nature of Folds' songs -and the artist's appearance ­that creates a comforting atmosphere of kinship and common experience among his fans. This was an essential aspect of Friday's show. Even the Stepan Center's limited capacity of approximately 1,800 people helped in adding to that sense of intimacy between performer and audi­ence. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
I 


~-------------------------­




NSIDER 
O
THE Monday, November 13, 2006 BSERVER Notre Dame 39, Air Force 17 
Grounded Falcons 
Quinn picks apart Air force; Irish stay alive in BCS race with win 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. ­Brady Quinn didn't get many opportunities to pass against Air Force Saturday, but the senior Heisman Trophy hopeful was on target when he did. 
Throwing just 19 times, Quinn's four touchdowns passes ­including three in the first quar­ter -and Terrail Lambert's 76­yard blocked field goal return for a touchdown led the Irish to a 39­17 victory over the Falcons. 
"The biggest point of emphasis to the offense was that we had to score early and often because you never know how many pos­sessions you're going to have," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. 
Notre Dame was only able to muster one possession in the sec­ond period -a three-play drive that ended in a half-ending punt from Geoff Price -as the Falcons hogged the clock. Air Force's two second-quarter drives -a 17-play, 9:13 marathon that began with 1:19 left in the first quarter and ended in Lambert's touchdown return and a 15-play, 5:47 drive that fin­ished when an exhausted Notre Dame defense stopped Air Force quarterback Shaun Carney on fourth and 3 from the Irish 24. 
The drives kept the Irish offense off the field, but Air Force was unable to convert in the sec­Quinn finished 14-of-19 for 207 bowl game, Weis said. "I think my professor could score. ond period -managing just yards and four touchdowns. He Air Force quarterback Shaun have made a few of those tack­Freshman running back James three points. has thrown 223 passes without Carney had an efficient day, fin­les," he joked. Aldridge saw his earliest game 
"You cannot trade field goals an interception -48 short of the ishing 14-of-17 for 205 yards and Despite Quinn's hot start -action of the season, carrying for touchdowns against [Notre NCAA record held by Fresno two touchdowns -one to receiv­completing all eight first quarter three times in the first quarter Darnel." said Air Force coach State's Trent Dilfer. He also er Beau Suder and the other to passes for 150 yards and three and finishing the day with 27 Fisher DeBerry, whose career moved into 11th on the NCAA all­fullback Jacob Kendrick. Carney touchdowns to three separate yards on five carries. record against the Irish dropped time list with his 87th career also ran 15 times for 42 yards. receivers -Air Force dominated Linebacker Joe Brockington to 3-11. touchdown, passing former "I thought we were significantly time of possession the rest of the finished second on the Irish 
Notre Dame senior receiver Miami (Ohio) star Ben better [defending] in the running game, finishing with a 38:35 to defense with 14 tackles and Rhema McKnight's Roethlisberger. game," Weis said. "But we game 21:25 advantage. The Falcons defensive tackle Derek Landri first-quarter The Reisman them some plays in the passing tallied 24 first downs compared came in third with 11. Landri led touchdown recep­candidate's final game. There's some give-and­to Notre Dame's 19 and out­Notre Dame in tackles for loss
"You cannot trade 
tion was the 158th scoring pass was take." rushed the Irish 200-176. (two for five yards) and sacks catch of his career field goals for a 23-yard post The Falcons -ranked third Darius Walker gained 153 (one). -moving him touchdowns against pattern to nationally in rushing entering the yards on 15 carries -just over a Air Force linebacker Drew past Tom Freeman, who game with a 267 -yard average -10-yard-per-carry average-and Fowler led the Falcons with 12
[Notre Dame].,, 
Gatewood into filled in for tight finished with just 200 yards and scored his fifth rushing touch­tackles. Linebacker Austin first place on the end John Carlson no touchdowns on the ground. down this season. The junior run­Randle and defensive back John school's all-time Fisher DeBerry after he left with a Halfback Chad Hall led the squad ning back also caught one pass Rabold each sacked Quinn once. list. right knee injury with 67 yards on 20 carries. Ten for eight yards -his 25th con­The Irish received the opening
Falcons coach 
McKnight in the first quar-Falcons all had at least one carry. secutive game with a reception. kickoff on a chilly day at the Air snatched a Quinn ter and returned Leading the way for the Irish The kicking game was inconsis­Force Academy and needed just pass at the five, to the Irish bench rush defense was strong safety tent on both sides of the field. two plays -29-and 51-yard shook off an Air Force defensive in street clothes for the second Chinedum Ndukwe, who finished Notre Dame failed to convert completions from Quinn to Jeff back and scampered into the end half. with 22 tackles -the most by a three extra points -Irish kicker Samardzija-to go up 7-0. zone to put Notre Dame ahead Weis said Carlson, who caught Notre Dame player since Bob Carl Gioia had two blocked and Samardzija led the Irish with 20-3. Notre Dame's next two a 1-yard touchdown pass with Golic registered 22 against one sailed wide right. Zach six receptions for 106 yards and scores -Lambert's second-quar­9:21 remaining in the first quar­Pittsburgh on Oct. 14, 1978 and Sasser converted a 32-yarder for his 51-yard touchdown grab just ter return and tight end Marcus ter, is expected to be out two to the third most in school history. the Falcons with 6:02 left in the 54 seconds into the game was the Freeman's scoring grab with 8:33 four weeks -including next Given Air Force's option offense first quarter, but his second longest connection of the day for left in the third quarter -gave week's home finale against Army and the number of opportunities attempt of the game -another either team. the Irish a 33·3 lead that the and the Nov. 25 showdown at it presented him, Ndukwe wasn't 32-yarder-was blocked by Irish Falcons never seriously chal­Southern California. He will too impressed with his career­defensive tackle Trevor Laws and Contact Mike Gilloon at lenged. hopefully return for Notre Dame's high day. scooped up by Lambert for the mgilloon@nd.edu 

player of the game 
stat of the game 

play of the game 
quote of the game 
"I left a mark at Notre Dame. I

Brady Quinn 

Terrail Lambert's blocked field goal 
22 

came here, [did] some things and

return for a touchdown. 
hope that I continue to progress."
Notre Dame's senior quarterback 
Tackles recorded by safety 

completed I 4 -of-r 9 passes for four 
Chinedum Ndukwe, the highest 

Lambert recorded his second score 
Rhema McKnight

touchdowns to jour different 
individual Irish total since Bob 

ofthe season with a 76-yard 
Irish wide receiver
receivers and no interceptions. 
second-quarter scamper. 
Golic recorded 22 in 1978. 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 13, 2006 


report card 
A A 
A­A­8+ 
B 


D A-
quarterbacks: Quinn was on fire, and three of his five inmmpletions were catchable balls that receivers dropped. Quinn has now thrown 223 straight passes without an interpception. 
running backs: Walker found space and exploded through it. He protected the ball well while simultaneously pounding the Air Force linebackers. His only nega­tive was two dropped passes. 
receivers: Aside from David Grimes' drop in the second quarter, the receivers had a nearly flawless game. They got open, blocked well and cre­
ated chances for the Irish to succeed. 
offensive line: The offensive line hulled through the outsized Flacons defense en route to a 7.6 yard-per-carry aver­age. Weis called both Air Force sacks "coverage sacks." 
defensive line: Laws and Landri once again caused problems inside. Abiamiri and Frome didn't end up with many tackles, largely because of Air Force's use of a tight end with its option attack. 
linebackers: Brockington had perhaps the quietest 15 tackle performance in Notre Dame history, but Thomas and Crum were absent from much of the action, which went away from the two. 
defensive backs: Ndukwe had 22 tack­les and three hits on plays called back because of penalties. Zbikowski did a good job containing the quarterback, but the corners were weak in coverage. 
special teams: Gioia missed 3-of-5 extra points (two blocked). Burkhart was solid on kickoffs, and Laws' field goal block turned into a 76-yard Lambert touchdown. 
coaching: Weis said he wanted to score on the game's first play, and Notre Dame scored on the second. Offensively, the game plan was solid, but the defensive coaches failed to put the Falcons away. 

3.20 
overall: The offense was virtually unstoppable, but the defense allowed too many yards and spent entirely too much time on the field. 
adding up the numbers 
Consecutive passes thrown by Irish quarterback Brady Quinn without an interception. Quinn 
223

extended his own school record Saturday. 
15 8 
Catches Notre Dame receiver Rhema McKnight has in his career, an Irish record. McKnight set the mark with his first-quarter TD catch. 
Number of catches that separate the career recep­
2 

lion numbers of McKnight and fellow wideout Jeff Samardzija, who has 156 and is third on the all-time Notre Dame receptions list. 
Time that Notre Dame had the ball in the second quarter. The Irish ran only three
1:09 
plays -compared to Air Force's 30 ­but still outscored the Falcons 7-0. 
Yards per carry that Irish running back 
1o2 

Darius Walker averaged on Saturday. Walker picked up 153 yards on 15 carries. • 
3 3 
More offensive plays Air Force ran than Notre Dame. The Falcons edged the Irish in total offense, 405-383. 
Failed Carl Gioia extra point attempts. Gioia had 
3 

point-after attempts blocked in the first and third quar­ters, and he missed an extra point try in the fourth. 
Seconds it took for Notre Dame to score its first touchdown of the game. 
COLORADO SPHINGS, Colo. -It would be Notre Dame's biggest win this season, but nobody knew that going in. 
It wasn't big 
because it was Air Force. 
It wasn't big because Brady Quinn was 8-8 for 150 yards and three touch­downs in the first quarter. 


This game was Kate Gales big because it was a win. And Associate in a college foot­Sports Editor ball universe where rankings are subjective and comparative and where those rankings and all their human failures decide your post­season fate, this game couldn't have gone better for the Irish. 
When one-loss teams are strug­gling or losing, a 39-17 win over Air Force can only be good for the 9-1 Irish. 
It's easy to get carried away, to develop scenarios where the Irish make the national title game, where Jan. 8 will be spent in Arizona with "Tradition" shirts. But any football player will tell you that's premature. Losing to Michigan on Sept. 16 meant the Irish no longer controlled their own destiny looking into the postseason. 
Of course, the first part was that Notre Dame had to win out. It's been doing that so far -in thrilling come-from-behind fashion some weeks, in one-sided domina­tion other weeks. When it comes down to it, these games were wins. 
But there was more. 

Irish fans had to start rooting for improbable losses, for cannibalistic conferences, for other one-loss teams to lose. At times, it seemed impossible. 
But on Saturday, some of them did. Saturday night, the Colorado Springs Buffalo Wild Wings was full 
of Kansas State fans wearing Brady Quinn jerseys. They had come from the Notre Dame win over Air Force, and they were euphoric from more 
than the altitude. 
Because while the Irish defense held on for dear life, Quinn coolly shredded the Falcons secondary, Darius Walker ran out the clock and former No. 8 California (then 8-1) 
But the Irish got lucky this week­end. They beat Air Force because of skill, but they ascended the rankings because of other teams' missteps. 
Suddenly, the Notre Dame-USC game on Nov. 25 just got a whole lot scarier. 
You won't find any Notre Dame 
players or coaches 
talking about the 

fell to Arizona. . It is up to coach Trojans this week. Former No.5 They're looking at
Charlie Weis and 
Auburn (then 8-1) Army. Because this was demolished by the Irish to keep weekend was proof of Georgia. two things: First, 
focused on the task 
Former No.3 there's still football to
ahead, to remem­
Louisville had lost to be played. Bowl pro­Hutgers Thursday by ber that for them, jections are just that­giving up 21 unan­the most important projections. So much swered points. can change from week
part ofthe season
Irish fans were to week, and that leads tasting victory, seeing is winning out. to the second thing. 
three teams ahead of their own drop in the polls. And then Kansas State went 
up over former No. 4 Texas. 
The fans sat in the restaurant, watching players they'd never watched before, tasting a chance for the Irish to again control their own destiny. 
On a perfect day, Northwestern would have pulled the greatest upset of all time and toppled No. 1 Ohio State. Jarvis Moss wouldn't have blocked a potential ga.me-win­ning field goal, and South Carolina would have taken down No. 6 Florida. 
But for an Irish team that's fought tooth and nail to overcome deficiencies and weaknesses, this is the kind of lucky break it needed. 
Some say that good teams make their own luck. Some think that luck is brought by rabbit's feet or superstitious rituals. 
Luck has, at times, gone against the Irish this year. Two tipped pass­es against Michigan went for touch­downs in the only blemish on Notre Dame's record this season. Sloppy, rainy conditions against Michigan State nearly put the nail in the cof­fin. 
On any given day, 

any team can fall. California may have looked past Arizona to rival USC. Texas quar­terback Colt McCoy fell, and his team went with him. Florida got another scare. Improbably, Rutgers is undefeated. 
It is up to coach Charlie Weis and the Irish to keep focused on the task ahead, to remember that for them, the most important. part of the season is winning out. Army is heatable (possibly the understate­ment of the year). 
Depending on what other surpris­es college football may have in store, a win over Army could become the season's biggest win next weekend. 
But for now, beating Air Force and getting a win on that treacher­ous Saturday is a pivotal moment of the season. The Irish are close to controlling their own destiny again. Beating Air Force gave them that. A little luck helped out. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd. edu The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Offense clicking at perfect time 
Notre Dame increasingly more efficient with the ball as season progresses 

Monday, November 13, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
•

scoring SUIDIDary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 

Notre Dame  20  7  6  6  39  
Air Force  3  0  7  7  17  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 7, Air Force 0 
Jeff Samardzija 51-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 14:06 remaining.(Carl Gioia kick) Drive: 2 plays, 80 yards, 0:54 elapsed 
Notre Dame 14, Air Force 0 
John Carlson 1-yard pass reception from 
Quinn with 9:21 remaining. (Gioia kick) 
Drive: 7 plays, 56 yards, 3:11 elapsed Notre Dame 14, Air Force 3 
Zach Sasser 32-yard field goal with 6:20 
remaining. 
Drive: 6 plays, 50 yards, 2:51 elapsed Notre Dame 20, Air Force 3 
Rhema McKnight 24-yard reception from Quinn with 1:19 remaining. (Gioia kick blocked) Drive: 9 plays, 80 yards, 4:55 elapsed 
Second quarter Notre Dame 27, Air Force 3 
Terrail Lambert 76-yard blocked field goal 
return with 7:06 remaining. (Gioia kick) Third quarter Notre Dame 33, Air Force 3 
Marcus Freeman 23-yard reception from Quinn with 8:33 remaining. (Gioia kick blocked) Drive: 9 plays, 87 yards, 3:21 elapsed 
Notre Dame 33, Air Force 10 
Beau Suder 12-yard reception from Shaun 
Carney with 0:17 remaining. (Sasser kick) 
Drive: 16 plays, 80 yards, 8:11 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Notre Dame 39, Air Force 10 
Darius Walker 4-yard run with 12:17 remaining. (Gioia kick failed) Drive: 7 plays, 65 yards, 2:53 elapsed 
Notre Dame 39, Air Force 17 
Jacob Kendrick 7-yard reception from Carney with 8:44 remaining. (Sasser kick) Drive: 7 plays, 70 yards, 3:22 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards rushing yards passing yards 

§ --~jf~Y:;.:;~~.tf,~\~~~;!-~~::·~>~~-~;,_ ,::~ 
·\I p I I ;Ret-:. 2"" 


27-176  rushes-yards  60-200  
14-19-0  comp-att-int  14-19-0  
2-94  punts-yards  2-79  
0-0  fumbles-lost  0-0  
6-60  penalties-yards  5-50  
19  ftrst downs  24  

passing 

Quinn 14-19-0 Carney 14-17-0 
rushing 

Walker  15-153  Hall  20-67  
Aldridge  5-27  Carney  15-42  
Prince  3-0  Williams  9-33  

receiving 

Samardzija  6-106  Root  5-110  
McKnight  3-53  Suder  3-44  
Grimes  2-16  Thompson  2-24  
Freeman  1-23  Moffett  2-13  
Walker  1-8  Kendrick  1-7  
Carlson  1-1  Armstrong  1-7  

tackles 

Ndukwe  22  Fowler  12  
Brockington  15  Rabold  5  
Landri  11  Randle  5  
Richardson  8  Huckins  4  
Laws  8  Kemp  4  
Crum  6  Rybak  4  
Frome  5  Meissen  4  
Thomas  4  Giannini  4  

By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. -Every ball that left Brady Quinn's hand in Saturday's fust quarter against Air Force was caught. He barely had another chance to throw before halftime. 
Notre Dame's offense came through with perhaps its most efficient game of the season in Colorado Springs. The Irish ran when they had to, passed when they needed to and scored touchdowns when they wanted to in a 39-17 win over Air Force. 
Notre Dame scored six times against the Falcons -and despite three shaky extra point tries -there wasn't much offensively that looked bad for the now No.5 team in the BCS against unranked Air Force, on a weekend when Texas, California, Auburn and Louisville couldn't come up with enough offense against upset-minded opponents. 
From its two-play, Quinn-to-Jeff Samardzija, less-than-a-minute opening drive, the Irish offense never looked back. Quinn did nothing to hurt himself against an Air Force secondary previous­ly ranked 52nd in the country against the pass. He spread the ball around, hitting Samardzija, Rhema McKnight, John Carlson and Marcus Freeman for scores. 
That was all before Notre Dame turned to the run. Irish running back Darius Walker was similarly productive, getting just 15 carries but tallying 153 yards for a stellar, 10 yards per carry. And. in a move that surprised some in the Falcon Stadium press box, freshman running back James Aldridge had three solid first-quarter carries. 
Nothing seemed to go wrong for the offense -except maybe its time stand­ing on the bench in the chilly mountain air. 
Air Force controlled the clock for almost all of the second and third quar­ters, using the option and quarterback Shaun Carney's 14-for-17 passing day to keep Notre Dame off the field. 
It turned out to be more effective than Air Force's defense. The Falcons rarely slowed the Irish attack and even when they forced a punt in the first quarter, a roughing penalty gave Notre Dame the ball back and just a couple plays later, the Irish scored again to extend their lead 20-3. 
Quinn only ended up with 207 yards through the air -just two more than Carney -but, with three drops, all but two of the Heisman candidate's balls appeared on the mark. 
The bottom line for Notre Dame after the victory was that it made the most of its opportunities. 
"We expect perfection," Quinn said. 
It was hard for his head coach to ftnd anything that showed the Irish didn't do exactly that. 
But Charlie Weis eventually came up with something that tempered his mood. 
"That's the one he'll remember," said Weis of Quinn's last attempt of the day, a long pass toward the end zone that fell several yards past a streaking Samardzija. 
Still, after Saturday's offensive per­formance, it's hard to see anyone besides Quinn himself criticize Notre Dame's play. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
Carlson out for rest of regular season 
McKnight sets school receiving mark; Irish secure back-to-back 9-win seasons 
sidelines in street clothes in The free safety position, est time of possession under
By KATE GALES 
the second half. according to Weis, was a Weis. Notre Dame had just 46 
Associate Sports Editor 
major part of defending Air plays in the game. McKnight sets record Force's option attack. Despite the clock disadvan­
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. Wide receiver Rhema Ndukwe's role against the tage, the Irish managed 8.6 -Tight end John Carlson McKnight now has 158 catch­Falcons is filling the alley yards per play and six touch­will be out for 2-4 weeks es in his career giving him where Air Force quarterback downs. after sustaining an injury to the Notre Dame record for Shaun Carney and a trailing Notre Dame's previous low­his right knee, Irish coach career receptions. His 55 pitch man would try to turn est time of possession under Charlie Weis said after grabs this season tie him for upfteld. Weis was 24:21 in its come­Saturday's 39-17 win over Air ftfth in the Irish record books. "It's being in that spot, it's back win over Michigan State Force. "I left a mark at Notre giving me the opportunity to Sept. 23. Carlson caught just one pass Dame," McKnight said. "I feel make plays," said Ndukwe -a touchdown -in the like I came here, [did] some after the game. "It happened Winners and losers Irish victory and left for the things and hope that I contin­to be my job today." The Irish are 9-1 for the locker room in the second ue to progress." Strong safety Tom first time since 2002, when quarter. McKnight passed Tom Zbikowski was responsible the team opened the season Initially, Weis was told Gatewood, who played for the for the alley against Navy, 8-0. This is the 12th time in Carlson would be gone for the Irish from 1969-71. where he notched a team­program history that a Notre remainder of the season. His teammate wide receiver high 14 tackles. Zbikowski Dame team has started 9-1. "It's not as bad as we thought Jeff Samardzija is right understood the challenge of The win over Air Force was it was," Weis said. "We might behind, with 156 career the position and compliment­Notre Dame's seventh lose him for the next two receptions. ed his teammate after the straight victory, the longest games, we might lose him game. winning streak since 2002. against Army and USC but Ndukwe notches career high "[Ndukwe] did a great job This is the first time Notre we'll have him back for the Free safety Chinedum reading the plays, making the Dame has had consecutive bowl game." Ndukwe was credited for 22 tackles when he needed to nine-victory seasons since Weis said he was "encour­tackles, 15 solo, against Air make them," he said. 1992 and 1993. It is the 35th aged" by the revision of the Force Saturday. It was a time in school history. initial reports from medical career high for Ndukwe, Time of possession staff. whose previous high was 11 The Irish possessed the ball Contact Kate Gales at 
Carlson returned to the against Michigan Sept. 16. for 21:25 Saturday, their low-kgales@nd.edu 
...
. 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 13, 2006 
Flying high 
Notre Dame's offense scored early and often Saturday 
against Air Force. The Falcons did their best to set the 
tempo of the game -controlling the ball in the second 
quarter for all but 1:09 -but could never turn time of possession into points until the Irish had already put the game safely out of reach. 


Photos by PHIL HUDELSONffhe Observer 

Top, Irish wide receiver David Grimes dives for a pass. Center left, Notre Dame wideout Rhema McKnight, right, scores a touchdown in the first half. Center right, Irish safety Chinedum Ndukwe tackles Air Force halfback Chad Hall. Bottom left, Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn throws a pass. Bottom right, Falcons quarterback Shaun Carney pitches the ball as Notre Dame linebacker Travis Thomas closes in. 
TI·IE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, November 13, 2006 
page 15 
CD REVIEWS 
Hogan doesn't do best in bubblegum debut 
By COURTNEY WILSON 
Scene Critic 
In its third season, VH1 reality show "Hogan Knows Best" follows the life of wrestling superstar Hulk Hogan and family. Relocating to Miami, the new season tracks the life of 18-year-old daughter Brooke and the four-month recording process leading up to her debut album. 
While Hulk is hard on his baby girl, the entire family appears whole-heart­edly involved in promoting Brooke's singing aspirations. Critics will, of course, discredit the show as an attempt to launch a fresh Hogan career, but without it, Brooke's talent -however underdeveloped --might never have been recognized. However, famous daddy's girls don't always come out on top, and "Undiscovered" is demonstrat­ed proof of this. 
As the first artist to sign with Storch Music Company (SMC) under the SoBe Entertainment label, it's expected that it would be to Brooke's advantage to have 
an album produced entirely by leg­endary music producers Scott Storch and KayGee. 
"About Us," the first single released by the songstress, features Houston rap artist Paul Wall. But Wall's collaboration is only part of the reason this single has been heating up the charts. Coming out with her super shiny and plastic-blonde image on the dance hall-inspired music video may have given the song an extra push. 
And like most blondes in the pop music contest, Brooke can't seem to escape expectations for sexual comedy in her music. With lyrics like "pretty fly for a white girl," Brooke shows sass on Track 14, "Low Rider Jeans." Barking and hee-haw noises amid sexually implicit lyrics and voiceovers demand­ing "more cowbell" are dreadfully rem­iniscent of Jessica Simpson in her over­done Daisy Duke stage. 
But anyone who watches the Hogan family's reality show knows that Daddy Hulk is strictly opposed to Brooke's image being over-sexed -and that may be the reason for empty and juvenile mer 80s pop princesses rather than a sexy dance hall formula preferred by today's female artists. Besides "Low Rider Jeans," the only other song with radio potential has to be the hip-hop inspired song "Incognito" (Track 13). 


Brooke does lend her writing talent to a couple songs on the album, including Track 8, "A Beautiful Transformation," in which she sings about her evolution into womanhood. The song has a light­hearted charm, which is at least dimly appealing. 
Track 2, "Heaven Baby," is decent, even if its Gwen Stefani, reggae-inspired beats are completely at odds with the rest of the album. So while Brooke may have scored the cover of "FHM" men's magazine as publicity for her matured new image, her songs show a bizarre contradiction. 
The album may appeal to a teenybop­per audience, but it will likely leave a young-adult listener extremely unen­thused. Maybe "About Us" and its hip­hop inspiration were just a teaser, because "Undiscovered" is predomi­nantly a compilation of songs best left to a 13-year-old sibling -or for play at the local skate rink. The album offers a few good listens, but ultimately disap­points with its inconsistent sounds and lack of maturity. 
Contact Courtney Wilson at cwilson6@nd.edu 
Brooke Hogan 
Undiscovered 
SMC/SoBe 



Recommended tracks: 'About Us,''Low Rider Jeans,' 'Incognito' and 'A Beautiful Transformation' 
L-----------------------------------------------~ 
songs centered on boys and vanity. 
The risque cover of "Undiscovered" is clearly inconsis­tent with the music it markets. Sugar-coated pop tunes like "All About Me" (Track 
6) and "My Number" (Track 7) seem to stick to some old-school recipe used by for-

The Deftones' unoriginal lyrics damage album 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
Three years after their last album, the Deftones have released "Saturday Night Wrist" -a move that is right for the band. With guitars wrapping them­selves around the yearning vocals, this album proves the pop-metal scene is still alive and well many years after some thought Limp Bizkit had put its nail in the coffin. More diverse than they have been in the past, the Deftones are still relevant to the modern rock scene. 
"Saturday Night Wrist" opens with the melodic and ethereal (as ethereal as rock can be) "Hole in the Earth." Frontman Chino Moreno's vocals soar over Stephen Carpenter's guitar while Chi Cheng's bass and Abe Cunningham's drums provide rhythmic soul to the song. 
While sonically the song is very sound and even somewhat original, the lyrics are contrived and impersonal. It speaks to some nameless evil and how the singer will find a hole in the earth and escape. One could say it's about the times we live in, however, the lyrics speak to nothing and offer no chance of identifying with the singer either through poetry or personalization. It seems the Deftones cannot escape the plague of pop and its symptoms, includ­ing poor lyrics mixed with sometimes catchy and interesting music. 
Formed in Sacramento, Calif., the Deftones originally consisted of Moreno, Cunningham and Carpenter. After going through a few bassists, the band finally settled on Cheng as a permanent mem­ber. The rotation was complete when Frank Delgado was added on the turntable for the sophomore effort "Around the Fur." 
This is the band that was completed in the late '90s and this is the band that is still around today-quite an accom­plishment for an alt-metal band that hit it big years ago. When Limp Bizkit has gone the way of the dodo and Korn is nowhere to be found, the Deftones are still finding a place in popular music. 
However, even though the Deftones adapted to the times, they have not for­



gotten where they are from. The sec­ond track, "Rapture," is an 
Saturday Night Wrist 
The Deftones 
aptly named thrashing of sonic distortion and metal screaming. "Hole in the Earth" may be more radio-friend­ly, however, 
Maverick 

Recommended tracks: 'Hole in the Earth/ 'Rapture' 
"Rapture" was made for those

and 'Cherry Waves' 
die-hard fans that 

L---------------------------------------------~ 
-
have been with the Deftones since the 
beginning. 
"Cherry Waves" is the song that lets 
Delgado flex his electronica muscles. 
While a bit over-emotional and trite, it 
manages to be interesting. The different 
places Delgado takes his turntable do 
credit to his talent and display the need 
the band has for him. Moreno also 
takes his voice from the lowest to the 
highest registers it can go. He croons, 
loves and impassionedly screams. The 
only problem is what he is singing 
about. It's nothing of substance. 
The album consists of great alt-metal 
music and not so great pop, ''I'm angry 
at my father" lyrics. The musicianship 
of this band, if one likes popular metal, 

Photo courtesy of europe2.fr 

is top-notch. It just needs to vary the lyrics up a bit and venture in new directions. After "Around the Fur" and "White Pony," both critically acclaimed heavy rock albums, the Deftones need­ed to show they could still play with the best of them even after the band's sup­posed expiration date had passed. This album may not be what the band want­ed -or what fans wanted as far as lyrics go. It's just more of the same old stuff. However, tune out the lyrics, lis­ten to the guitars and enjoy one of the better alt-metal albums to be released in recent years. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, November 13, 2006 
NFL 
McNair leads Baltimore to comeback victory 
Jets coach Eric Mangini upsets his old boss Bill Belichick as New York tops the Patriots on a muddy day in Foxborough 
Associated Press The Titans (2-7) had a last chance to send McNair back to 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -This is Maryland a loser. But Trevor exactly why the Baltimore Pryce blocked a 43-yard field­Ravens wanted Steve McNair. goal attempt by Rob Bironas 
The veteran threw his third with 33 seconds left, allowing touchdown of the game against McNair to celebrate on the field his former team with 3:35 left where he had won so many Sunday, helping the Ravens games before. rally from a big deficit to beat the Tennessee Titans 27-26 for New York Jets 17 their best start. New England 14 
The Ravens are 7-2 for the ·Bill Belichick exchanged first time after trailing by 19 another cold handshake with points -the biggest comeback Eric Mangini in the middle of in team history. And MeNair the muddy field. had a lot to do with it. The Patriots coach certainly 
"His demeanor, it just never had no reason to embrace the ceased to amaze me," coach protege who angered him by Brian Billick said. "The calm leaving for the New York Jets. this man has. At no point have I After all, the Jets had just won ever seen him blink there, and on a rainy Sunday, tightening there was a few times to blink the AFC East race that once out there." loomed as a runaway for New 
This game had enough to England. keep it interesting as McNair's "I have a lot of great memo­homecoming to play the team ries from here," Mangini said. that traded him to the Ravens ''I'd like to add this to it." in June because Baltimore Belichick has refused to refer offered more than Tennessee to the Jets coach by name since was willing to pay. Mangini left after serving five 
Then the teams combined for years as his defensive backs a handful of penalties and just coach and last season as defen-• downright weird plays for sive coordinator, helping the Pennington also had a hand in Buffalo the lead with 6:22 left. struggling in several areas. added measure. Billick even Patriots win three Super Bowl the previous losing streak when "They made some clutch picked up an unsportsmanlike titles. Their first midfield meet-­he led New York to a 30-17 win Green Bay 23, Minnesota 17 plays. It's amazing to watch penalty for yelling at an official. ing after the Patriots won in in December 2002 -one week If Green Bay was going to Favre convert some of those 
But McNair gave the Titans New York this season wasn't a after the Patriots lost to beat Minnesota, Brett Favre third downs," said Johnson, an expensive lesson. study in warmth either. Tennessee. was going to have to throw the sounding a bit envious of his 
"That's why you play this Then again, why should any ball to his own team, not the opponent's success. game," McNair said. "You're a of the Patriots b£1 happy after Indianapolis 17, Buffalo 16 other guys. competitor. Those are the their 57-game streak without Just call him Patient Peyton. Favre followed through on Philadelphia 27 things you go back and look at consecutive losses ended? The With Buffalo content to slow the plan, making sure to savor Washington 3 and say, 'Hey, this is what we record of 60 games was set by down the Indianapolis Colts up­a hard-to-come-by win at the The Philadelphia Eagles' stale get paid for: to come back and San Francisco from 1995-99. tempo offense, a restrained Metrodome and cautiously pon­offense needed a couple tweaks win games." Jets quarterback Chad Manning relied on short der the progress made by his to get going. A lucky break and 
throws, an effective ground rebuilding Packers. some fresh ideas did the trick. game and a time-consuming Favre threw two touchdown Donovan McNabb threw an final drive to lead the passes without a turnover and 84-yard touchdown pass to Indianapolis Colts past Buffalo Donald Driver had a career­Donte' Stallworth, Sheldon on Sunday -and into the NFL high 191 yards receiving in a Brown returned an interception record book. victory over the Vikings on 70 yards for a score and the 
Indy is the first team ever to Sunday. Eagles snapped a three-game have consecutive 9-0 records. "I thought he made great losing streak with a victory 
"They just stayed real deep decisions," Green Bay coach over the Washington Redskins and double-covered the outside Mike McCarthy said, praising on Sunday. receivers," Manning said. Favre's performance with Coach Andy Reid turned over "When a team does that, taking Minnesota's league-best rush­playcalling duties to offensive away the deep patterns, you've ing defense holding down coordinator Marty Mornhinweg got to be able to run the ball Ahman Green (22 carries, 55 after a 13-6 home loss to and you've got to be able to yards). Jacksonville. The result was a throw underneath and get The Packers (4-5), who have balanced attack featuring more yards after the catch. We were won three of their last four runs than passes for the first doing that." games, were boosted by a time this season. 
A few years ago, an impatient strong pass rush and even bet­"We were in a rut offensively Manning may have been tempt­ter pass protection. Favre com­and I was calling the plays," ed to force balls deep. Not now. pleted 24 of 42 passes for 34 7 Reid said. "I told you it starts 
On Sunday, he played with his yards and no interceptions. with me, so, take a close look at customary accuracy -com­"At least for another week it yourself and you move on." pleting 27 of 39 passes for 236 gives us a little hope," said It was a costly loss for the yards with one touchdown -Favre, who improved to 5-10 Redskins, who lost Clinton and was determined to make against the Vikings in their Portis to a broken right hand in the Bills pay for their tactics. noisy dome. the first quarter. It wasn't 
But the Colts still needed Brad Johnson went 18-for-30 immediately known how long some help from Rian Lindell, for 257 yards, one touchdown Washington (3-6) would be who pushed a 41-yard field and two turnovers for without its star running back. goal attempt wide right -a Minnesota (4-5), which lost its Coach Joe Gibbs said Portis play that would have given third straight game after again may require surgery. 
... 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
House Available for 07-08 Year. Travel with STS to this years top 10 FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TICK-Close to Campus. Just Renovated Spring Break destinations! Best ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232­WANTED FoR RENT to Brand New Condition. TICKETS deals guaranteed! Highest rep com-2378. Open to groups of 9-11 missions. WANTED: 1990 or 91 The Shirt. BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam-Students. Contact Visit www.ststravel.com or $100 for quality shirt. pus homes & weekend rentals. MacSwain@ gmail.com WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251-call1-800-648-4849. 
PERSONAL

Call Dan at Bluegoldrentals.com 1570 Great group discounts. 
712-251-0930. 2-6 BDRM HOMES 07-08 OR 
.. HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 NOW. 574-329-0308 FOR SALE: NO TICKETS. 232-Travel with STS to this years top 10 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Bedrooms 0964 Spring Break destinations! Best not go it alone. If you or someone www.N Dstudentrentals.com E Washington St., updated, 4 bed,2 deals guaranteed! Highest rep com-you love needs confidential support 
FoR SALE 
baths, wash/dryer, AIC, security WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. missions. or assistance, please call Sr. Sue 
Rooms for rent for football week-system, dishwasher, TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY Visit www.ststravel.com or call 1-Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more 3 Persian carpets priced to sell. ends. Close to campus. Call 574-NICE! Call John WILL PAY MORE. 800-648-4849. Great group dis-information, see our bi-weekly ad in 574-291-8514. 243-0658. 574-27 4-5692. 574-288-2726. counts. The Observer. 



OUND THE NATION 
Monday, November 13, 2006 CoMPILED rROA,t THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
NFL 

NCAA Football Associated Press Top 25 
team record points previous 
1 OhiQ Stale (64) mo 1624 2 Michigan (ll 11~0 1561' 3 florida 9-1 1436 4 usc 8·1 1433 5 Arkansas 9·1 1331 6 NOTRE DAM£ 9·1 13112 7 Rutgers 9·0 1212 8 West Virginia 8·1 1075 g lSU 8·2 1074 10 louisville 8·1 1028 11 Tnas 9·2 965 12 Wisconsin 10·1 930 13 Boise. State 10·0 805 14 Wake Forest 9·1 777 15 Aubum 9·2 751 16 Oldahoma 8-2 746 17 California 8·2 595 18 Georgia Tech 8-2 563 19 VirginiaTech 8·2 413 20 Boston c;oltege f; 8·2 350 
21 Maryland . · 8~2 309
NN 

22 Toonessee 7·3 276 23 Brigllam Young 3·2 216(•i: 24 
.. 25 

... 
··:·:':':;;::::::;:;::-:::·:":Y"" 

~...w~4~ 
iiN~AA Football 
BCS Rankings 

team  record  comp. avg.  
1  Ohio Slate  11-0  3  
2  Michigan  11-0  1  
3  usc  8·1  4  
4  florida  9·1  6  
5  NOTRE DAM£  9·1  5  
6  Rutgers  ·•  9·0  2  
7  Arkansas  9-1  9  
8  West Virginia  8·1  11  
9 10  Wisconsin louisville  ,,0·1 .. 8"1  8 1  
11  LSU·hiQ;;::••·•  8•2  13  
12  Boise. Slate  10~()  10  
13  Te:tas  9·2  16  
14  Aubur  9·2  14  
15  Catilorniat  8•2  12  

1 
2 6 
1 
11 9 15 10 12 3 4 16 14 18 5 17 
8 19 20 22 23 13 25n 

&T 

Harris 
1 2 3 
4 5 

7 6 8 11 10 9 13 12 15 17 
around the dial 
NFL Tampa Bay at Carolina 8:30 p.m., ESPN 


Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.-Just call the Chicago Bears the best team in the NFC -and the New York Giants red-faced for falling asleep on a record-tying 108-yard missed field goal return by Devin Hester. 
Hester fooled the Giants by standing in the back of the end zone for several seconds, then ran down the right sideline on his knock­out-blow return as the Bears rallied for a 38-20 victory over the injury-rav­aged Giants in their NFC showdown Sunday night. 
On Nov. 13, 2005 ­almost exactly a year ago -the Bears' Nathan Vasher caught Joe Nedney's missed 52-yard field-goal attempt in the back of the end zone on the final play of the first half and ran it back for a 108­yard TD return. The play helped Chicago beat San Francisco 17-9, and now Hester shares the record for longest NFL play with his teammate. 

Rex Grossman threw for three touchdowns and Thomas Jones scored on a short run as the Bears (8­
1) rallied from a 10-point first-half deficit with 28 second-half points in end­ing a five-game winning streak by the Giants (6-3). 
Not only did the Bears win, they answered the 
IN BRIEF 

Johnson in position to take Nextel Cup 10 Miami 
AVONDALE, Ariz.-The Nextel Cup title is Jimmie· Johnson's to lose. 
For anyone else, it would be a perfect position. But Johnson has been here before. 
Johnson lost two of these titles before, and nothing is guaranteed -even after his second-place finish Sunday at Phoenix International Raceway gave him a firm hold atop the Chase for the championship leaderboard. 
He needs to only finish 12th or better next week in the season­finale at Homestead-Miami Speedway to win the championship. 
"I seriously don't have any clue what to expect," Johnson said. "I don't have any strategy other than go down and finish ahead of (the other Chase drivers). It's just that simple. That's all we've done so far, through these last few months." 
critics who surfaced last week after Miami knocked Chicago from the unbeaten ranks in a turnover-marred game. 
Grossman had touch­down passes of 29 yards to Mark Bradley, 10 to Muhsin Muhammad and 2 to Desmond Clark in lead­ing the Bears to a 24-13 lead in the third quarter. 
The Giants cut the gap on Brandon Jacobs' second touchdown run of the game late in the third quarter. 
The game turned on Hester's third return for a touchdown this season -a most unexpected one. 
Jay Feely, who had kicked two field goals, attempted a 52-yarder 
with 11:20 to play. The kick was short and Hester caught the ball 8 yards deep in the end zone. The rookie stood there for sev­eral seconds and then came out, circling the right side and speeding down the sideline almost untouched for a clinching score. 
The teams brought two of the top defenses into the nationally television matchup that was moved to prime time by the NFL. 
New York's 13-10 half­time lead was courtesy of its defense and special teams, with three scoring drives covering a total of 13 yards in winds gusting to 25 mph. 

Ramirez signs five-yeardeal to stay with Cubs CHICAGO, Ill. -Aramis Ramirez decided to stay put. 
Coming off a career year at the plate, the third baseman gave up a chance to explore the free-agent mar­ket, agreeing Sunday to a $73 million, five-year contract with the Chicago Cubs. 
On the first day free agents could negotiate money with all 30 teams, oft­injured pitcher Kerry Wood also opted to stay with the Cubs, agreeing to a $1.7 5 million, one-year deal worth potentially up to $6 million. 
Ramirez, who initially joined the Cubs midway through the 2003 season in a trade with the Pirates, had opted out of the final two seasons of a $42 million, four-year contract and filed for free agency on Oct. 30. His new deal contains a mutual option for 2012. 
"When you leave $20 million or $30 million on the table, it's where you want to go." 
Ochoa wins LPGA playerof the year award wilh win 
MOBILE, Ala. -Lorena Ochoa wrapped up the LPGA Tour's player of the year award with a record-set­ting finish in the Tournament of Champions. 
The 24-year-old Mexican star shot a 7-under 65 on Sunday for a tO­stroke victory and a tournament­record 21-under 267 total. She ran her winning streak to three with her sixth victory of the year and earned $150,000 for a season total of $2,492,872. 
"Winning this tournament was very special," Ochoa said. "I think. this is going to be a place I will remember for the rest of my life and just achieving my goal of being the best player in 2006." 
With Annika Sorenstam and Karrie Webb skipping the tourna­ment, Ochoa locked up the player of the year honors before the season­ending ADT Championship. 
,..---------­
page 18 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, November 13, 2006 

I I I I I  •  
I  
'  
'  
I  
I  - 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, NOVEMBER 12-14, 2006 
Tuesday, November 14 
8:30 am -Panel: Theory and Practice, Auditorium, CCE 
• 
Willi Esterhuyse, University Professor, Institute for Futures Research, Stellenbosch University, South Africa. (A member of numerous corporate boards). Black Economic Empowerment and the Deracialisation of the South African Economy: ACase Study. 

• 
John Paul Lederach, Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, University of Notre Dame The Role of Corporate Actors in Peacebuilding Processes: Opportunities and Challenges 

• 
Marilise Smurthwaite, Professor, St.Augustine College, South Africa The Purpose of the Corporation: AReligious View of Corporate Power 

• 
Doug Cassel, Director, Center for Civil and Human Rights, Law School, University of Notre Dame The United Nations and Multinational Corporate Responsibility: Legally Binding Standards or "Principled· Pragmatism,.? 


10:30 am -Plenary Summaries of Concurrent Sessions, Auditorium, CCE Chairs: Lee Tavis, Founding Director of the Program on Multinational Managers and Developing Country Concerns; Hal Culbertson, Associate Director, Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies; and Oliver Williams, C.S.C., Director of the Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business, University of Notre Dame 
**Students and Faculty are not required to register. 
The conference is being convened by: 
• 
AACSB International (The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business) 

• 
The United Nations Global Compact Office 

• 
The Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business of the Mendoza College of Business at the University of Notre Dame 

• 
The Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies of the University of Notre Dame. 


For further information about the conference visit: http://www.nd.edu/-ethics/ethicsConference/ 
. ' )... ) ® 
\
UNIVE:RSITYOF
NOTRE DAME rrrAAcsnLJ .® The Joan B. Kroc Institute 
FOR INTERNATIONAl. PEACE! STUDIES 
M EN007-A !N1'1!1\HA'I'IONA1. 
THEGIPSAI.
COLLEGE Of' lHJ.SlN£SS 

.I 
Monday, November 13, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLS 
Houston wins championship in penalty kicks 
Dynamo takes MLS Cup in first year after movingfrom San Jose 
Associated Press 
FRISCO, Texas -Brian Ching scored the tying goal for Houston a little over a minute after New England's Taylor Twellman struck what appeared to be the game-win­ner in overtime, and the Dynamo went on to win the MLS Cup on penalty kicks Onstad easily blocked. Orange­nically the third for the former Sunday, 4-3. clad Dynamo San Jose Earthquakes, which 
Faced with a fans, many of won in 2001 and 2003. must-goal in whom made the The loss was the third defeat the fift4 and "We've lost every nearly six-hour in the league championship for final set of drive from the Revolution, who were
possible way we can

penalty kicks Houston and beaten 1-0 in overtime to Los for New lose in the finals. , dominated the Angeles last year. New England, Jay stands, erupted England also made the final Heaps kicked in celebration as game and lost in 2002. 
Taylor Twellman 

a low line the franchise "We've lost every possible
New England forward

drive to the won the title way we can lose in the finals," left side of the after moving to Twellman said. net that Texas last year. The game was the first MLS Houston goalkeeper Pat The championship was tech-Cup final to be decided on 

penalty kicks -though in the 
second overtime, the 
Revolution appeared just min­
utes away from victory. 
In the 113th minute, 
Twellman charged up the field, 
split two defenders and shot 
the ball into opposite corner of 
the net past sliding Dynamo 
defender Kelly Gray. But as 
Revolution fans continued to 
celebrate, Ching headed in the 
tying goal off a long cross from 
Brian Mullan. 
"I didn't think we were going 
to get one," Ching said, "but 
we were going to die trying." 
Ching later scored the win­
ning penalty kick in the fifth 
set, stutter-stepping on his 
approach before knocking the 
ball that skipped past New 
England's Matt Reis' out­
stretched hand. Ching was 
named the game's MVP. 
Each team made its first two 
penalty shots before the 
Revolution's Pat Noonan, one 
of New England's top strikers 
all season, skimmed his blast 
off the top of the crossbar. 
Reis briefly saved New England by correctly guessing Brad Davis' shot to the left side, but after Twellman forced a fifth set of kicks, Onstad pounced on Heaps' shin-high shot to the left cor­ner and was quickly buried under a pile of hollering and thrashing teammates who sprinted toward him from mid­field. 
Twellman especially didn't like losing on penalty kicks ­the same way Italy beat France to win the World Cup this summer. 
"They should have just let us keep playing," he said. 
The Revolution lost another final in which they didn't always play like big-game test­ed veterans, despite its two previous MLS Cup appear­ances and five straight Eastern Conference finals. In all, New England extended its scoreless streak in MLS Cup games to more than 336 minutes before Twellman's goal, a drought that belies an offense that led all teams in the playoffs with 19 shots on goal. 
Revolution midfielder Clint Dempsey, playing in perhaps his last MLS game if his desire to play in Europe next season comes true, didn't start because of a strained right ankle. He entered the game in the 62nd minute -wearing yellow shoes perhaps a shade brighter than Houston's orange jerseys -and ener­gized New England's attack in the second half. 
That extra aggression result­ed in Twellman breaking the scoreless tie, but the Revolution barely had a chance to celebrate before Ching found himself behind most of the defense and plunk­ing a header past the arms of a diving Reis. 
Houston finished second in the Western Conference, quickly finding a fan base after leaving San Jose because of low attendance. The city ini­tially branded the team Houston 1836 before Hispanics complained the name offen­sively referred to the year Texas defeated Mexico for its independence. 
The championship brought the first professional sports title to Houston since the WNBA's Comets won the last of four straight titles in 2000. 
---------------------.. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 13, 2006 
ND SWIMMING 
Double s-weep for ND at Rolfs this weekend 
Men's and women's teams beat Mich. St. and Pitt in dual meets 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer _ 
Michigan State and Pittsburgh had barely come up for air by the time No. 17 Notre Dame was swimming away with its third and fourth consecutive dual meet victories -the program's best start since the 1992-1993 season. 
The Irish started the weekend by defeating the Spartans 165­75 Friday afternoon at Rolf's Aquatic Center. Notre Dame won ten of the 13 events on the after­noon with senior co-captain Ted Brown leading the way. Brown picked up two victories on the evening finishing first in both the 200-freestyle and 200-but­terfly. 
Notre Dame received contribu­tions across the board as seven different swimmers picked up first place finishes Friday. Other than Brown, Louis Cavadini, are going to happen at the end of the season." 
Like their counterparts on the men's side, the No. 20 Notre Dame women's team swept Michigan State and Pittsburgh this past weekend and main­tained their spotless dual meet record on the season. 
With the two victories, the Irish improved their dual meet record to 3-0, and their season resume also includes a first place finish in the Dennis Stark Relays. Sophomore Christa Riggins attributes the team's fast start to work put in long before the beginning of the season. 
"The team had a really good summer which prepared us well for the season," Higgins said. "We're good at motivating each other in practice, and we have really good team chemistry." 
The Irish started the weekend with a comfortable 155.5 to 86.5 victory over the Spartans Friday afternoon at Rolf's Aquatic Center. Notre Dame won of ten of the thirteen events getting contributions from swimmers and divers throughout the team. 
Junior Caroline Johnson led 
the team with two 
victories as she 

Sam Stoner, finished first in the
"I think one ofour
Andrew MacKay, 50-yard freestyle
team's biggest 
Jay Vanden Berg, and 100 yard but­Michael Bulfin, strengths is the terfly. Junior and Tyler Angelo Natalie Burke won
depth we have. " 
all won one the 200 yard event. breaststroke, and "I think one of senior Ann Barton
Ted Brown our team's Irish captain won her first indi­
biggest strengths is the depth we have," Brown said. "So many guys can step up in so many events, and that's a credit not only to the coaches in their recruiting but also to the guys on the team because we mesh really well together." 
On Saturday, the Irish returned to the pool easily dis­patching of Pittsburgh 172-126. With the win, Notre Dame pushed their dual meet record on the season to 4-0, their best start in fourteen seasons. Brown cited the team's level of intensity as a primary reason for their strong start. 
"Our team as a whole expects more from each other," Brown said. "We're raising the level of intensity at our practices, and it's carrying over into the meets. So far this season, the results have shown our hard work and dedication." 
Senior Tim Kegelman and freshman John Lytle each picked up three victories -two on relays for both swimmers -led the Irish on Saturday. Kegelman won the 100 butterfly while Lytle finished first in the 200­freestyle. Both were part of the 200 medley relay and 200­freestyle relay teams. 
Brown continued his strong weekend finishing with first place finishes in the 500-yard and 1000-yard freestyle. Freshmen Ross Moore. and MacKenzie LeBlanc also picked up victories for Notre Dame. 
The Irish won't return to action until December 1st, but they know they have plenty to work on in the coming weeks. 
"We're swimming fast, but we want to get better because we know our potential," Brown said. "We're a talented team, and if we combine that talent with hard work, special things 
vidual event of the season finishing first in the 200 backstroke. 
The rest of the night, however, belonged to the team's fresh­men. Freshmen Zeina Shanata, Megan Farrell and Ashley Edgell all won events with Edgell pick­ing up the first individual victory of her college career. 
Saturday saw little change as Notre Dame returned to Holf's Aquatic Center to handily defeat Pittsburgh 188-112. The Irish won nine of sixteen events on the evening led by senior Katie Carroll who had two victories on the evening. 
Carroll won the 50-yard freestyle, and she set a school record in the 1000-yard freestyle with a time of 9:49.80. While school records are noth­ing new for Carroll, impressive times this early in the season are. 
"I think everyone's pretty sur­prised at how fast we're swim­ming given how early it is in the season and the fact that we're not rested for the meets," Riggins said. "It's a good confi­dence booster for myself and the team." 
Senior Julia Quinn, freshman Vivian Healey and sophomore Claire Hutchinson also picked up victories for the Irish in the 200­yard breaststroke, 1 DO-breast­stroke, and 200-butterfly respectively. 
Freshman Natalie Stitt won her first collegiate diving title as she was victorious in three­meter diving, and she followed that up with a one-meter diving title. 
Notre Dame will be back in action this Friday when they travel to Minneapolis for the 3­day Minnesota Invitational. 
Contact Greg Arbogast garbogas@nd.edu 

SMC SWIMMING 
Belles win big over RHIT 
Three freshmen win races in 114-77 rout for first victory of the year 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Impressive individual per­((Jrmances led the Belles to their first victory of the season, a 114-77 win over Hose-llulman Institute of Technology. 
54 of those 114 points were accounted for by wins in indi­vidual events. Freshmen Sara Niemann, Kayla Ferguson, and Lindsey Nelis and sophomore 
water and swam as fast as I could." Niemann took first in the 1 DO­yard freestyle with a time of 
58.78 seconds. She also won the 200-yard freestyle, finishing in 2:04.37. 
''I've been putting a lot of work at practice, plus lifting weights with the team through­out the week," Niemann said. "The coaches have also really been working with me to 
dominated the meet, the Belles relay teams performed equally well. The 200 medley relay all­freshmen '/\ team, composed of Ferguson, Jennifer Lebiedz, Katie Carroll and Meredith Lierz, took first place. The 'B' team, which included freshmen Jackie Corey and Laura Piccioli and sophomores Shannon Hansen and Leah Bocinsky, came in second, right behind them. 
As Belles coach 
Melissa Gerbeth all took lirst in improve certain "This win was an Hyan Dombkowski at least one of their races. aspects of my had predicted,
acievement for 
"This win was an aehievement races. These wins were not the for everyone involved with Saint things all came everyone involved only factor in the Mary's swimming," Niemann together on with Saint Mary's meet that brought said. "As a team, we've been Saturday so I Saint Mary's the
swimming.
working very hard over the past was able to have victory. Forty few months to become more a really success­points were competitive. Personally, I was ful meet." Sara Niemann accounted for by thrilled that the team could Ferguson Belles freshman second-or third­
accomplish such a goal." 
Gerbeth won the 200-yard individual medley, finishing in 2:23.38, and also took the 500­yard freestyle. She touched the wall at 5:28.24, eleven seconds ahead of the rest of her compe­tition. 
Gerbeth understood the importance of her race. 
"I went into it knowing I had to win the race and there was no other way around it," she said. "I knew I had to do it for my team and I did not want to let them down. I got in the placed first in the 100-yard back­stroke with a time of 1:05.43, and Nelis won the 1000-yard freestyle in 11 :30.40. Nelis also finished second behind Gerbeth in the 500-yard freestyle. 
"Going into this meet we knew we had a chance to win it so we were all excited and pumped up," she said. "We all came together and won as a team. There was a lot more cheering at this meet and an overall bet­ter attitude." 
Although individual races 
place fmishes. 

Saint Mary's training and lifting has paid off; three Belles set new personal bests on Saturday. Gerbeth dropped her 500 free time 3.63 seconds, Ferguson dropped her 100 backstroke time 2.99 sec­onds and Niemann lowered her 200 free time 2.66 seconds. 
The Belles face Albion College (1-1) in Albion, Mich. this Friday. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


TO ADD TO YOUR COLLECTION 

~------------------~--------------~----------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, November 13, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
ND splits with Mountaineers in Big East tune up 
Irish finish regular season with a 16-11 record, 10-4 Big East 
By DEVIN PRESTON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame split the last two games of the regular season this weekend, allowing it to finish with a record of 16-11, 10-4 Big East. Although losing to Pittsburgh dropped the Irish below the post-season rank they were hoping to have, the win over West Virginia yester­day allowed them to stay with­in the pack as one of four teams now with a 10-4 confer­ence record. 
Pittsburgh 3, Notre Dame 1 
Notre Dame dominated in the first game, but 'dropped the match 30-10, 25-30, 24­30, 31-33 to Pittsburgh (22-8, 10-4 Big East). 
Freshman Serenity Philips led the Irish attack with 15 kills at a hitting percentage of .265. Junior Adrianna Stasiuk also made a key contribution with 14 kills and 17 digs. 
But the Irish defense was unable to slow down the Panther's Stephanie Ross, who racked up a total 24 kills dur­ing the match. Notre Dame also had trouble from the line as they added up eight service errors before the match was over. 
The fourth game was much closer with Notre Dame down 2-1 in a must win situation. The Irish did not see their first lead in the game' until a kill from Phillips kicked off a 4-1 stretch to give them a 12-10 lead. A service error from 
"It was really nice to

freshman Kim needed one more Kristoff allowed end the conference win to put the Pittsburgh to match away.
season in our home 

answer back The Irish came
facility. ,,

immediately out strong early with a 7-2 run to with three kills lead 17-14. The Tara Enzweiler from Croal con­lead would tributing to an 8­
Irish middle blocker 

change  two  
more  times  
before  Notre  Dame  and  

Pittsburgh found themselves tied at 29: 
Notre Dame played hard, but in the end a kill from Diana Andreyko followed by an attack error by Stasiuk would allow Pittsburgh to take the fourth game and the match. 
Notre Dame 3, West Virginia 0 
West Virginia left the Joyce Center Sunday with their 28th disappointment this season, losing 30-19, 30-21, 30-17. 
Sophomore Mallorie Croal shined against the Mountaineers (3-28, 2-12 Big East), tallying 13 kills at a hit­ting percentage of .429 as well as 17 digs. 
Senior Danielle Herndon also had 17 digs on Notre Dame's Senior Day helping the Irish to keep West Virginia contained. Notre Dame out hit West Virginia .308 to .062. Having led for the entire first game, and most of the second after an early 4-4 tie, Notre Dame only 

2 run to give the 
Irish a 10-4 lead. Notre Dame would maintain their lead despite a late effort made by West Virginia's 4 
4 
Kristina Gallahan and Abby Tevis. After kill from sopho­l more Justine Stremick to give Notre Dame game point at 29-~ 
l 
17, an attack error by Gina 
1
Cusanelli sealed the match for .~ Notre Dame. ' 
"It was really nice to end the l conference season in our home facility with a solid win as our lone senior said farewell to the Joyce Center," freshman Tara Enzweiler said about Notre Dame's flawless victory. 
Contact Devin Preston at dprestol@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Gray makes school history,-earns first ever NCAA berth 
By BECKI DORNER Sports Writer 
Junior Megan Gray won a spot in the record books this past weekend by becoming the first Belle cross country runner to earn a berth to the NCAA Championship. 
Her personal best time of 22:52 on the NCAA Regional Championship 6K course at Hanover College was good for a 1Oth place overall finish. 
"She looked strong the entire race and kept passing people from the start to finish," Belles coach Jackie Banters said. 
In addition to Gray's time, rounding out the top 5 for the Belles were Sara Otto with a recorded 24:43, Megan McClowry with a 26:01, Caitlin Stevenson with a 26:34, and Alicen Miller with a 26:40. 
These times gave the Belles 524 total poinfs for 20th place in the 31 team field, a slight improvement from previous years. Case Western University took the overall team title with only 53 points while the College of Wooster's Katie Wieferich earned top individual honors with a time of 22:07. MIAA champions Calvin came in sec­ond place and will advance to the national meet . 
Despite being mostly good weather for the race, the wind started to pick up, affecting most of the runners. 
"The strength and condition­ing training that we do allowed me to feel strong enough to pass people, especially into the wind," Gray said. "It was a combination of having the physical upper body strength and mentally stay­ing calm and running my own 
Gray's strong performance is not only a testament to the coaching staffs dedication, but to her own as well. Gray was unable to compete during her sophomore year due to patella femoral syndrome, and was enrolled in intensive physical therapy less than a year ago after her injury forced her to stop running altogether that summer. 
"I just feel that this season has 

race." ' been such a blessing because of 
........................................................................................................ alltheroadblocksth~came 
Ca§~l~>·· Po.i.Jl.t.i A~i,H~M~,~:i' 
1a'-'l1.fl .. c 

~QY~D ~;tiP~,~·· l..pfi1~l:l.ti:. 
O~~eu.ing Gu. 
lndoor/Ou 
() Free Tanning ft] Heated Pool Relaxing JactJtzzi Gated CommfJnity 

Specials! 
Basketball 
before it," Gray said. 
Gray says that she will be running mile repeats on Monday and 45-60 minute runs on Tuesday and Thursday, with Wednesday reserved for a speed workout for her NCAA training. 
Gray's goals for the national championship race at Voice of America Park in West Chester, Ohio is under 23 miles, the junior said. 
"There will be so many incredible runners there, I just want to well represent Saint Mary's and my team," she said. 
Despite her individual accomplishments, Gray con­tinues to credit much to her teammates 
"I want also to say how much the team has meant to me this season, I love all the girls and everyone has worked so hard," she said. "I know many of them are plan­ning on traveling down to see me race at Nationals and it makes me so happy because without them, none of this season would be possible. 
Contact Becki Domer at rdomer1 @nd.edu 

-~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 22 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Pair clinches title in tie break round 

Parbhu and Keckley defeat Louisville team to win ITA Doubles 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
Notre Dame entered the fall season with hopes of improving both their singles and doubles game as well as proving that they had the potential to be one of the top teams in the nation. 
Junior Sheeva Parbhu and senior Ryan Keckley defeated No. 26 Slavko Radman and Damar Johnson of Louisville 9­8 (5) in the ITA Midwest Doubles nals of the ITA National Indoor Championship and pulled of a huge upset in the process defeating No. 2 John Isner of Georgia 6-4, 7-6 (6). Bass' high came to a halt in the semifinals as he fell to Ohio State's Steven Moneke for the second time this season. Moneke defeated Bass 7-5, 6-3 in the National Indoors and also defeated Bass 7-6, 3-6, 6-4 in the quarterfinals of the ITA Midwest Regional Championship. 
Moneke is a familiar foe for the Irish. He knocked off Parbhu with a 7 -6(2), 6-2 victory in the ITA Midwest Singles Final. 
According to NCAA regula­tions, the team will be limited to 
eight hours a week 
of conditioning and 
skill instruction 

Championship. "We are trying to until January. The duo tri­Head coach Bobby
.get a little stronger 
umphed over Bayliss said it is up 
right now., 
five straight to the players to teams to reach improve during the finals where Bobby Bayliss this off time. the two were "Everything will
Irish coach
tested more than they had been the entire tournament. The match was driven into a tiebreaker in which Parbhu and Keckley were able to walk away with the win. The win in the regional tournament gave the doubles team a berth in the ITA National Indoor Doubles Championships. 
Parbhu fell 7-6 (2), 6-2 to Ohio State's Steven Moneke in the singles finals, but he still secured a spot in the ITA National Indoor Championships. Irish senior Stephen Bass also reached the tournament as an at-large selection -he was selected based on ranking and fall per­formance. 
Bass advanced to the semifi­be on an individual 
basis," Bayliss 
said. "Its up to the 
guys to choose when to play." 
The Irish will open their regu­lar season on the road at Charlottesville where they are scheduled to take on Virginia Jan. 27. Bayliss said that the team hopes to enter the season with a top-13 ranking so that the Irish will have a place at the National Team Indoor Championship in February. To reach that goal, the team intends to improve their overall strength and power. 
"We are trying to get a littl.e stronger right now," Bayliss said. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 13, 2006 

The Center for Ethics and Religious Values i'n Busi'ness and The lnsti'tute for Ethi'cal Busi'ness Worldwide 
Proudly Present 
Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
"Corporate Social Responsibility in the Global Village'' 
Thomas E. Costa Vice President of International Policy & Government Affairs and Deputy General Counsel, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 
Tuesday, November 14, 2006 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
MICHIANA EYE CENTER 

& fACIAL PLASTIC SURGERY Michiana Eye Center & Facial 
welcomes Notre Dame Stud Appointments available Mbn • 
Richard D. Weiss, M.D. Ann B. Wiarda, M.D. Daniel G. Danahey, M.D.,Ph.D. Douglas J. VanPutten, M.D., F.A.C.S Bernard P.Nevel, O.D., F.AA.O. 
Kevin A Danahey, O.D. Pamela M. Wise, O.D. Scott M. Pastryk, O.D. Sara E. Pastryk, O.D. 

Specializing In com""~~noneiUO.O.\.<IO.'J.::iV~U·Y'I contact lenses & 
Liscenced Aesthetician Peggy Dibbte is accepting new clients at our South Bend location. Peggy offers Custom European Facialsi Body Waxing, Chemical Peels, 
Botox and more...  
230 E. Day Road #100  401 N. Michigan St.  1919 Lake Avenue  
Mishawaka, IN  South Bend, IN  Plymouth, IN  
Ph: 574-271-3939  Ph: 574-282-2020  Ph:  574-935-4480  


Monday, November 13, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
NBA
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Yao·has double-double 
Irish men headed to NCAAs 
Hagerman, Ptacek key in second place finish 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
After the NCAA Great Lakes Regional, the Irish men have accomplished their goal, but the women's team still has to wait. 
Notre Dame's No. 18 men team came out strong Sunday at Bowling Green, taking second place in the tough Great Lakes Region, giving them an automatic bid to the NCAA Championship Meet. 
"Our goal was to get second place and get the auto bid to nationals so we don't have to go through the at large process, so I guess we accomplished our goal," Irish freshman Brock Hagerman. 
Notre Dame scored a meager 104 points in the meet, but this score was far off No. 1 WISconsin's 52, but was just good enough to finish just ahead of No. 29 Butler at 107. 
Senior Kurt Benninger (7th, 
31:22.97) and sophomore Patrick Smyth (8th, 31:23.21) Led the Irish in their first lOK race of the season. For Benninger, it was the third time in his college career that he finished in the top seven in the regional race, as well as his third top-10 fmish in four races this season. 
"It's great going into a race and knowing that our top two runners are going to score at the most ten points combined," Hagerman said. "It would be nice for them to keep that up at nationals and both be up there with all­American fmishes and give us two low sticks up there at the front." 
Although Benninger and Smyth led the Irish across the line on Saturday, the more important fin­ishes for Notre Dame were by Hagerman (24th, 31:53.24) and senior Todd Ptacek (25th, 
31:53.94) to keep 
Notre Dame faced an uphill bat­tle against a tough region, and could not crack the top four ­
Associated Press their goal going into the race. The Irish did put up only 116 points, 
MIAMI -Shaquille O'Neal but were just edged to fifth place 
was dominated, but he wasn't after a strong performance by 
impressed. Butler (111 pts.) 
Yao Ming won his matchup The top finisher for the Irish 
with O'Neal, finishing with 34 was again junior Sunni Olding 
points and 14 rebounds (6th, 21:03.50), who has been the 
Sunday night to lead the top scorer for 
Houston Rockets to their 
Notre Dame's "Hopefully we can run Notre Dame in 
fourth straight victory, 94-72 
score low. every race in 
over the Miami Heat. 
just as well or even

"I think me and which she has par­
"He's pretty much the
better at Nationals

Todd both had ticipated. Olding's 
same, just big, 7-6," O'Neal 
pretty solid races. and that's we're going time was good 
said. "He's just doing what 
We worked togeth­enough not only 
he's supposed to do."
to need for a top ten 

er the whole time for her third 
Yao scored 20 points in the
finish.,

so it felt really straight top seven 
second half, when Houston 
good to run my finish at Regionals, 
outscored Miami by 25 points. 
first lOK," Brock Hagerman but also gives her 
"My only chance against 
Hagerman said. a chance to earn 
Shaq is to keep him on the
Irish freshman 

"Hopefully we can run just as well or even better at Nationals and that's what we're going to need for a top ten finish." 
Rounding out the Irish scorers was junior Jake Watson (40th, 32:16.70), whose performance, while not as successful as 
"It definitely wasn't our best race as a team," Hagerman said. "So I guess that goes to show how much potential we have at the national meet that we can have an average day overall as a team and we still pulled out second place at Regionals." 
But the Irish women will have to wait to see if they get an invita­tion to the NCAA Championship Meet Nov. 20 in Terre Haute. 
as Rockets rout Heat 
an individual invi­
run," Yao said. "Shaq is much tation to the NCAA 
stronger and bigger than me. Championship even if the team 
My only chance on beating does not receive an at large bid. 
him is to keep running and Following Olding for the Irish 
running against him. was a pack of three Irish runners 
"Every time I score on him I -senior Ann Mazur (21st, 
was happy like a kid, like a 21:52.93), junior Julie Opet (24th, 
kid getting candy on 
21:56.41) and sophomore Heidi 
Halloween because it's really Rocha (30th, 22:07.78) to put the 
too hard to score on him, too Irish in a strong position to finish 
hard. He's just great." well. 
Dwyane Wade led Miami The last scorer across the line 
with 24 points, but had only for the Irish was freshman 
eight in the second half, when Lindsey Ferguson, who ran the 
Miami shot 33 percent. 6K in 22:17.27 for-35th place in 
"We were a little flat on her first ever Regional race. 
offense, our offense wasn't as crisp," Wade said. "Yao hit Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at 
some tough shots to give jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
them the lead. They were 
good." 
O'Neal's field goal early in the third quarter moved him past Patrick Ewing for 14th on the NBA's career scoring list with 24,817 points. But he finished with only 15 points and now has 24,820 in his career. 
Yao frustrated the Heat with short jumpers and layups. He shot 11-of-19 from the field and 12-of-13 from the free throw line. His sec­ond-half dominance revived the Rockets after their first­half struggles. 
Tracy McGrady was only 6­of-18 from the field but fin­ished with eight assists. 
"That is the a sign of a good team, when you struggle offensively in the first half and you come out in the fourth quarter and do every­thing right," McGrady said. 
Shane Battier and Luther Head each finished with 11 points for Houston. 

"We did a good job defen­sively, we did a good job keeping them out of the lane and keeping them off the free throw line," Battier said. 
After trailing nearly the entire first half, the Rockets outscored the Heat 21-14 in the third quarter and never trailed after Rafer Alston's 3­pointer for a 58-56 lead with 
1:27 remaining in the period. 
Retj~_Now! 
Ml3GR-60210 ;·,1\ LJ'."-')n''1r)
Dt \ . \..:J ,_),,L '· 

This one credit-hour course will explore issues, ideas and trends likely to affect business and society during the next decade. A series of separate lectures on selected Friday mornings will feature a wide range of experts. business.nd.edu/tenyearshence 
PMJ~ U.S. 7~JfuJJA-~~~13~ ~Boo~ 
David Vvalker, Comptroller Genera!, United States of Arr1er-ica 
Shi6~ ~ qeo~af 7~Pow~ 
ilr c'.~::l\jlQ' E·· l\t1::i·rt'rr' ("",[-r) l'\/.. Ct\~.,A
.._.... ' · .._.t ' • • .._. • l 1 .._,. ·' 1 . • ' .I ·\lrl 
r:~=e~~to~ ;:l1~~~r~u~ ~DrNei£~ 
!Jtvvvwyw1w~ R~o~ -1'hL _NfMJ 7~ ob ~ 
r·lonorable Romano L. !v1c--czd, former-member·, d.~;. I icuse of Repr-esentatives 
"Ten Years Hence" is listed as BAUG-3021 0 and MBGR-6021 0, and is open to all Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate students, and Saint Mary's students. There are no prerequisites to enroll. See your academic advisor or your department chair for additional detail. You are expected to attend all lectures and be prepared to engage speakers. No unexcused absences. This is a "Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory" course. This course requires no textbook purchases, examinations or term papers. Use an add form to register; registration is not available online. 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 13, 2006 
HOCKEY COMMENTARY 
Irish fa:ns need Hockey 101 
With two impressive victories this weekend, Notre Dame will most likely jump to No. 8 when the USA Today poll is released this afternoon. On a campus already over­flowing with sports tradi­tion, Irish coach Jeff Jackson and his club seem poised to add hockey to a list of nation­ally contend­ing teams. 
Only 10 games into a 36 game season, it is much too early to tell if the Irish will still be in the top 10 in March. If the young team continues to develop at this pace, however, it has the potential to play in Joe Louis Arena for the CCHA champi­onship. 
And it's starting to win student support. Despite a busy weekend on campus, 4,230 fans donned their gold and filled the Joyce Center on Friday and Saturday night. 
"The crowd was awesome-I was really happy to see that," said .senior goaltender Dave Brown. "It really helps a lot. I just hope we can uphold it for the rest of the year." 
But just as the team has plenty of work left to do, the hockey IQ around campus needs a boost 


BGSU 
continued from page 28 
4-0 at the Joyce Center to move into a tie for fourth place in the league standings -only three points behind first-plac~ Miami, despite having played in four less conference games. 
"I don't think that we're that much further ahead of teams than we're playing right now," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "I think we can be over time, but I 
think that we  made  a  lot of  
progress  [Satur~ay]  over  
[Friday]."  
The  Falcons  (3-6-1,  1-5-0  

CCHA) split their netminding duties between freshman goal­tender Eddie Neville (28 saves, five goals allowed) and sopho­more goalie Jimmy Spratt (22 saves, four goals allowed), but neither could stop the diverse Irish attack that saw six different players score and another six add at least an assist. 
Irish goalie Dave Brown stonewalled the Falcons for his eighth career shutout Saturday and made 52 saves on the two games to improve his nation­leading -and Hobey Baker­attracting -goals-against aver­age and save percentage. 
"The bounces were a little bit more fortunate [Saturday], as opposed to going in off guys' skates -some of the unfortu­nate stuff that was going in [Friday]," Brown said. "So it was a little bit better [Saturday] for sure." 
The Irish penalty kill shut down J 1 Bowling Green chances, while the power play proved to be the deciding factor in the series' first game. 
The score was tied 2-2 at the beginning of the third period in Friday's game after Notre Dame had given up its lead with an early second-period goal. 
Falcons right wing Brandon before the Irish can compete with the big boys at Maine and Minnesota. 
So for those of you who base your knowledge of the sport on a trilogy starring Emilio Estevez, break out the notepads and pen­cils and we'll start with a few of the basics. 
No matter how effective the "Flying V" looked on the big screen, it doesn't fly on the ice. Instead a team will use a break­out play to move the puck out of its own zone and up the ice. The breakout consists of the defense corralling the "biscuit"-hock­ey's answer to the "pigskin" ­behind the net and moving it along the boards to the forwards who clear the zone. 
Friday night, sophomore Erik Condra received a breakout pass from defenseman Dan VeNard. Condra pushed it forward to freshman Ryan Thang, who scored Notre Dame's second goal of the game in a well-executed breakout. 
Secondly, as fun as Zamboni is to say, there are many more important words in the rink ver­nacular. 
Any opposing goalie is a sieve, which he should be reminded of on a regular basis throughout the game. Other reminders about the sieve's style and quality of play are also good to throw in throughout the game. 
The penalty box can also be called the "sin bin," and much 
Svendsen was whistled for hook­ing at 3:39 and Irish freshman Ryan Thang used the man advantage to score his sixth goal of the _yl:lar and second of the game at 5:39. Thang buried a rebound past Neville off a shot from the left-circle dot by right wing Erik Condra for the 3-2 lead. 
The Irish added two more power play goals at 7:54 and 
17:58 in the third from left wing Josh Sciba and center Kevin Deeth for the 5:2 final. Sciba received a pass in the slot through a Falcons defenseman's legs from center Mark Van Guilder and sent in a low, stick­side wrist shot just inside the post. Deeth found the right side of the net open after a quick Condra pass from the left side put Neville out of position on the other side of the crease. 
"The power plays were a result of we moved our feet in the third period and drew the penalties that gave us the power plays," Jackson said. 
Bowling Green got the 1-0 lead at 10:14 in the first period -the first time this season the Irish have not scored first. But the Irish answered 14 seconds later when Van Guilder batted a puck out of mid-air with the heel of his stick into the net to tie it 1-1. 
The Irish then took the 2-1 lead at 16:20 on a solo rush by Thang, Thang broke down the left side of the ice after a Falcon turnover was relayed from Condra to Thang along the Irish blue line. He muscled his way around a Falcon defender and cut in toward Neville in the low circle before he deked left, then shifted right. As he began the shift he was tripped up from behind, but managed to slide the puck around Neville's left pad while sprawled on his right side. 
Falcons right wing Tomas Petruska tied the game at 2-2 with a garbage goal at 6:24 in the second period. Brown made like the goalies, any opponent headed toward the sin bin can be heckled by the conveniently placed student section. 
When a Notre Dame player heads to the box, attention should be drawn to one of the three referees -the Three Blind Mice -but this situation is a lit­tle more delicate than when heckling players. 
Which brings us to pcmalty calls. Common penalties in hoek­ey inelude hooking, tripping, crosschecking, roughing and holding. Each of these is reward­ed with a two-minute trip to the sin bin, not 10,yards and a replay of the down-which a student was overheard yelling during Friday night's game. 
The call, which came 4:57 into the first period, was against Irish defenseman Wes O'Neill. O'Neill was called for holding onto an opponent's stick in front of the net in ail effort to clear him out of Brown's way. 
There is no better way to get into the swing of things than showing up for a game and expe­riencing the excitement first­hand, and there is no better time than Friday night when No. 5 Michigan State comes to town. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily ofThe Observer. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd. edu 
the initial save on a Jonathan Matsumoto breakaway, but the puck was not cleared out in time during the ensuing scramble. 
"There was a lot of serums going on in front [of the netl," Jackson said. "That's a weakness of ours that we need to improve. I thought we were playing gritty in front of their net tonight -we still need to play gritty in front or our own." 
The second game saw yet another Irish freshman make a significant impact, as Christiaan Minella scored a goal in his first career game and added a bone­crunching open-ice body check on a Falcon player. 
Minella's goal came on a three­on-one at 9:04 in the first period to put the Irish up 2-0. Sciba car­ried the puck into the Falcon zone on the left side of the defender, while Minella hung back and center Jason Paige attacked the right .flank. Sciba drop-passed the puck back to Minella, who put a low wrist shot past Spratt on his stick side. 
Condra scored first for the Irish at 6:19 with a one-timer off a pass from the right circle boards by def'enseman Dan VeNard. Condra added his second of the night on a power play in the third period for the 4-0 final with a one-timer fed from Deeth. 
"(Condra's] a great playmaker," Thang said. "He did it last year and he's doing it again this year. Our line is clicking really well ­Kevin Deeth, Erik Condra. We just know where each other are at-it's just working really well this year." 
Van Guilder got the third Irish goal with a glove-side snap shot in the second period. 
Notre Dame will host Michigan State at home Friday at 8:05 p.m. before heading to Munn Ice Arena in East Lansing for the finale of the home-and-home series. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
NBA 

Melo drops 36 points in win over Bobcats 

Associated Press 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. Denver coach George Karl wasn't sure if his team played great defense or just took advantage of Charlotte's gifts. 
Carmelo Anthony scored 36 points and the Nuggets forced the Bobcats into a franchise­worst 29 turnovers in a 108­101 victory over Charlotte on Sunday. 
"I hope we forced some of them," Karl said. "We just wanted to crowd the ball bet­ter. That's something that has been our emphasis, slash at the ball when we have the opportunity. We anticipated the passing Janes pretty well." 
J.H. Smith and Andre Miller each added 17 points for the Nuggets, who scored 26 points off Charlotte's miscues 
to  pick  up  their  second  
straight win  after  an  0-3  
start.  

Brevin Knight scored 21 points but had seven turnovers, and Emeka Okafor had 22 points, 15 rebounds and six turnovers for the slop­py Bobcats, who have lost thre,e in a row. 
Rookie Adam Morrison struggled again, scoring just twD points on 1-of-S shooting. 
Charlotte, which shattered its previous record of 26 turnovers, found a variety of ways to throw it away, from poor passes to offensive fouls. Raymond Felton, wearing a flak jacket to protect his bruised ribs, was called for a carrying violation flarly in the fourth quarter. 
"We're careless," Bobcats coach Bernie Bickerstaff said. "The bottom line is our ener­gy level. It looks like there is no stamina. We're not doing the dirty things, running down loose balls, consistently as a team." 
Now leasingquality houses 
close to campus for the 2007/8 and 2008/9 school years. 
Call Bill at Anion Properties 
. 574-532-1896 

Student, Faculty, Staff and Family Tennis Clinic Presented by: Men's and Women's Varsity Tennis Teams 

Wednesday, November 15 5:30PM -7:00PM Eck Tennis Pavilion 
Free of Charge/Must Have Valid ND ID No Advance Registration Necessary Bring Your Own Racquet Tennis Shoes Required, No Running Shoes Allowed Call RecSports at 1-6100 for More Information Open to All Notre Dame Students, Faculty and Staff 

r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, November 13, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 


seven shots on goal -the second highest total the Irish
NCAA 
have given up this year. continued from page 28 Notre Dame keeper Lauren Karas said she wasn't fazed 
Two freshmen -Haley Ford by the extra action. and Amanda Clark "It was definitely packed in replaced Dew and Shaner. our half the first half of the 
"As with any change, it's a game, but I didn't have to bit of an adjustment," senior make too many saves," she defender Kim said. "It was 
Lorenzen said. "But "We didn't get to go mostly commu­
they've played to Chili's like we nication and enough games that pickups."
usually do. They
they're no longer The Irish also 
were closed.,,
freshmen." struggled in the 
Ford and Clark midfield, where played well enough Randy Waldrum Panthers coach to keep the ball out Michael
Irish coach
of the net, but Moynihan put couldn't keep the four players ­Panthers from getting off one more than Notre Dame 
D'AIDico 
continued from page 28 
and five rebounds in just 15 minutes. 
"I was so pleased with her performance today. She rebounded better in the second half, she took good care of the ball, [and] she shot well," McGraw said. "She played as a dominating presence inside. She took her shots down low. I thought both ends of the floor she played well." 
While D'Amico's performance was key in the opening minutes of the game, Notre Dame pulled even farther away from the Chippewas following a 12-0 run led by Williamson. Williamson notched four early rebounds and two of her six points shortly after entering the game for D'Amico, who left due to foul trouble. 
Williamson was important immediately after entering the game the second time, register­ing two blocks, one rebound and a steal after only a minute and a half. 
Those two stretches with Williamson in were crucial to setting the defensive tone for the match according to McGraw. 
Along with Williamson, fresh­man guards Ashley Barlow and Melissa Lechlitner also per­formed well in their college debuts, each notching seven points and 2 rebounds. More importantly, both participated in the offense effectively and joined in the defensive effort. 
plays. While the Irish had Notre Dame had advanced faced the formation several to the second round with a 7­times this season, Waldrum 1 win over Oakland Friday ­said the players did not an easy win on paper, but in adjust as well as they should reality, a major toll on the have. players' legs. A thunderstorm 
"They had a four-man mid­during the game reduced the field and we play field to a muddy with three," he "The intensity level slop and an said. "Our wings almost-two hour
ofthe kids was very
players weren't lightning delay 
dropping back to poor. We made one meant the contest help and our out­good play --the didn't end until side backs goal.,, about midnight. weren't moving Even by the up, so [midfield­time Sunday ers] [Amanda] Randy Waldrum rolled around the Cinalli, Jill Irish coach Irish were still [Krivacek] and feeling the effects [Jen Buczkowski] were just of the game against the chasing the game the entire Grizzlies, Lorenzen said. time." "When the field got wet [on Friday], it was like running around in sand," she said. "We're looking forward to a fresh start next weekend." 
But the real pro.blem with Friday's late ending, Waldrum said, wasn't added fatigue. 
"We didn't get to go to Chili's like we usually do," he said. "They were closed." 
Notre Dame will face Colorado Friday at Alumni Field at 7:30 p.m. in the Round of 16. The Buffaloes beat Denver 2-1 Sunday in Boulder, Colo. 
"[Wisconsin-Milwaukee] is past us," Waldrum said. "We got the win, ugly or not." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

"I think all three [freshmen] are going to get a lot of minutes and are just going to keep get­ting better," McGraw said. "When they figure out what we're trying to do defensively when they start to understand the offense a little better." 
Another key to the Irish win was forward Chandrica Smith, who came off the bench to tally four rebounds and a career­high 11 points within nine min­utes. Smith was able to crash the boards and dominate in the paint against Central Michigan, driving to the lane to net easy baskets for Notre Dame. 
Smith was also a key part in Irish offense, as her ability to shoot well from the field ( 4-of­
10) and from the line (3-4) helped the Irish extend their lead in the second half. 
"Coach told me when I get the ball fo look for my drive and try to fit myself into the offense," Smith said. 
But despite scoring more than 80 points for the third straight game, McGraw is still not pleased with her offense. 
"We're not close to where want to be offensively," she said. "We're going to get there though. I can see the potential, I can see the progress. We just need to tighten things up a little bit." 
Another problem for the Irish late in the game Friday was their three-point defense. Central Michigan was able to make 5-of-7 shots from behind the arc, four of which came from guard Candace Wilson, who led all scorers with 17 points. 
The Chippewas' three-point shooting helped bring. them within 14 points with 6:22 to play, but D'Amico reentered the game and shut down Central Michigan with two early rebounds and four points. 
The Irish face off against Bowling Green, another tough Mid-American Conference oppo­nent, tonight at 7 p.m. in the JACC. 
"I know [Bowling Green is] an excellent team -they were at Purdue with us at the subre­gional last year," McGraw said. "They've got everybody back from a team that was something like 25 and four. They're going to be a really big test for us." 
Notes 

+ The attendance for Friday's game was 6, 702 -the second highest opening day attendance in the program's history. The only year with. a larger season­opening attendance was Nov. 18, 2001 against Valparaiso, which was the day the 2001 National Championship banner was raised. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 13, 2006 
IPFW 
continued from page 28 
rebounds). The Irish also had eight players with five or more field goal attempts. 
After IPFW guard Chris Perkins hit a jumper over McAlarney, the Irish went on an 18-4 run, forcing Mastodons coach Dane Fife to use a 30-sec­ond time out. In that stretch, Kurz scored six points and grabbed five rebounds. 
"You're seeing the develop­ment of one heck of a Big East forward, you really are," Brey said of Kurz. "Again, it's the pro­gression of our basketball pro­gram, a guy getting better in our program. I'm proud of him, nobody works harder than him." 
IPFW saw little improvement out of the timeout, since Notre Dame continued to apply pres­sure and work through offensive sets with ease. The Irish went on a fmal 9-2 run to close out the half as Carter scored five points in the stretch. 
"Easy baskets. In the past, we've had a hard time getting easy baskets," Brey said. "We're getting some easy baskets run­ning, on the offensive boards, and again I think its fresh guys for the most part." · 
Notre Dame continued its dominance in the second half and forced IPFW into early foul trouble. The Mastodons picked up their seventh team foul just five minutes into the second half and were in the double bonus with roughly eight minutes remaining. 
With 7:38 left, the Irish went on another 10-0 run to put the exclamation point on the blow out. 
"We came in with the thought that we had a chance to win this basketball game, and wow were we wrong," Fife said. "If they compete like that, they've got a chance in the Big East." 
Guard Colin Falls was quiet in his second straight game, scor­ing six points on 1-of-5 shooting. He didn't score a basket until a 3-pointer with 3:05 left in the first half, but was active with three rebounds, two steals and two assists. 
''I'm looking and I'm saying, God how do we get him involved," Brey said. "We tried to do some things in the second half, but yet there he is in the second half, which I thought was great, he missed a couple shots and he takes a charge. That's how great his head is. 
"There's no baggage on his part, he's having fun playing the game, and it will come back around where there'll be nights where he's just going to get a lot of looks." 
Notes: 
+ Brey named Falls and Kurz captains before the game Friday, days after he said he was unde­cided about how long he would wait to make that decision. Kurz spoke after Friday's game about the importance the distinction carries. 
"It's a great honor, and I'm really humble about it," Kurz said. "Hopefully I can jQst be as good of a captain as I can. I've had great captains for the other two years I've been here and hopefully I can follow in those guys' footsteps." 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgiffi3@nd.edu 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
Irish sophomore Kelcy Tefft advanced to the finals of the Eck Classic Saturday at the Eek Tennis Pavilion, but lost in the final of the singles tournament to DePaul's Dunja Antunovic 6-4, 7-5. 
"I did OK. I didn't play great, but I didn't play bad," said Telll, who was one of three Notre Dame play­ers in the event. "The better I played, the better she played it seemed." 
On Friday, the first day of the tournament, Tefft overcame a sec­ond set deficit and a gutsy per­formance from DePaul's Petra Rehsova in a 7-5, 7-5 victory. On Saturday, Teft't earned a spot in the fmals by winning 11 straight games in her 7-5, 6-0 win over Megan Fudge of Illinois. 
"KelCy played very well in the tournament. [Antunovicj is a streaky player, but she played well all the way through to beat Kelcy," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "Kelcy's played a lot of doubles recently so we wanted her to get some good play in singles, and she did. That was important." 
The other two Irish participant'>, freshman Kali Krisik and sopho­more Katie Pott'l, each lost in the first round of their respective sin­gles matches but wound up taking the doubles title together with an 
8-6  victory  over  Western  
Michigan's  Kerstin  Paul  and  
Ashley Moccia.  

"Kali and Katie played really well all around for the tourna-
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish finish successful fall season 
ment," Tefft said. 
In her singles match, Krisik fell to DePaul's Kirsten Gambrell 6-4, 6-4, but won the Gold Flight Consolation title against Kristina Minor of Illinois with a 6-2, 7-5 win. 
"Kali played well. In her singles matches, she got to play kids that were in the top four of their teams, so it was a good experience for her to be in this," Louderbaek said. 
Potts dropped her first round singles match against Western Michigan's Carrie Jeanmarie 1-6, 6-3, 6-3, but rebounded to win the Blue Flight Consolation title with a 7-5, 7-5 win over Paul. 
"She needed to get some tough matches in and she did," Louderback said. "She played bet­ter in each round she played in this tournament." 
Only three Notre Dame players participated in the event because of the restriction that teams can only enter 25 dates on the year. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

SPRING BREAK 
INFORMATION 800-488-8828 
www.sandpiperbeacon.com 
fREE SPRING BREAK MODEL SEARCH CALENDAR* 
'VALID FOR FIRST J000 RESERVATIONS. 

SWEEDISH DEEP TISSUE REFLEXOLOGY CARPAL TUNNEL SYNDROME THERAPY 

We now own the most popular student apartments and townhouses in the area! 
Leasing for 2007-2008 school year 
Notre Dame Apartments 
835 Notre Dame Avenue • 2-bedroom Apartments 
• 
Spacious 1, l 00 sq. ft. units 

• 
Within Walking Distance to NO (2 Blocks) 

• 
Off-Street Parking 

• 
On-Site Laundry 

• 
Water Utility Included in Rent 

• 
Central Air 


• 
Secur~d Exterior Doors with Intercom System 


Lafayette Square Townhouses 
424 N. Frances Street 
• 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhouses 

• 
6 Blocks from Campus • 2 Bathrooms 

• 
Off-Street Parking 

• 
Washer and Dryer 

• 
Dishwasher 

• 
Central Air 

• 
Security System 



Call today -these units are renting quickly VIew all of our houses, apartments and townhouses at www.kramerhouses.com 
Contact Kramer at (574J 315-5032 or (574J 234-2436 
------------------------------------, 
' ~ 
' 
~
Monday, November 13, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
' 
ALEC WHITE
JOCULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 33 With 45-Across, 63 2000 Richard 1993 Tom Gere/Winona
1 "Mutiny on the Hanks/Meg Ryder movie Bounty" captain Ryan movie 66 Russia's
sHalf a 
Mountains37 AerosolMcDonald's logo 67 Early Bond foe 
38 Krazy_ of

10 Blend 
the comics 68 Spine-chilling14 Anouk of "La 
69 Portend
39 Jamboree participant 70 Twist, as 
Dolce Vita" 
15 Mineral in findings
41 Going way 71 Utopias
transparent back, as friendssheets 
42 Dog collar DOWN
16 "Told you I 
attachment 1 "La_," 1959 
could do it!" 
17 1944 Judy 45 See 33-Across hitGarland movie 48 Hits the roof 2 Rest atop 20 Feathery 50 Morales of 3 "To put it scarves "N.Y.P.D. Blue" 
another way ... " 21 Magazine 
51 Pointed, as a 4 Become peeved revenue source gun 
5 Skirt edge 22 Soda can 
53 Mild aftershock 6 Surrounded by opener 57 "Oh my 7 Step after 23 Gets on the heavens!" shampooing nerves of 60 Luau instrument, 8 Syringe amts. 
25 Mideast leaders 
informally 9 Millinery Puzzle by Harvey Estes 27 Marsh plant accessory
62 Nickelodeon's 34 Stow, as cargo 47 Like some 56 Does fall yard 29 Facing trouble _ the Explorer 10 Clogs, as a Grateful Dead work
35 Suffix with cigar

drain fans' attire 57 Apply carelessly, 36 Prince, to a king
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Drawn tight 49 Corrects as paint
40 Exam taker 12 Prefix with 58 Continental52 Irene of "I

-syncratic 43 Generally 
coinRememberspeaking13 Hoarse voice Mama" 59 Not much 44 Brother with a18 Flip chart fairy tale 54 Poet Clement 61 Have down pat
holders 46 Swiss river to 
c. 64 Vex
19 The_ Prayer the Rhine 55 Sen. Hatch 65 Minuscule24 "You betcha!" 
26 Apply incorrectly For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a
28 Make up one's credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
mind Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday30 Gait between 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. walk and canter Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 31 Ring up past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
32 Jekyll's bad side solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.


33 Slaloms 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
l 
1 
HENRI ARNOLD j 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

l 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
Poison iyy. Use this to form four ordinary words. 
salve and stop slicinginto the woods 
NITHK 
I 


CIJ 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Rese!Ved. 
CUMSI 
rJ 
1
t

REPIME 
WHAT THE SKIN
IJ I 
DOCTOR GAVE THE GOL.FEI<. 
www.jumble.com 
ROYSAR j 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: CHICK FUSSY FUSION BICEPS Yesterday's Answer: 
What she wanted her talkative ski partner to do ­"SCHUSS" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Omarion Grandberry, 22; Ryan Gosling, 26; Sammy Sosa, 38; Neil Young, 61 
Happy Birthday: This year, you must dig deep in order to make the right choices. Money can be made if you are willing to put yourself on the line and be directed by people with more experience. Your numbers are 13, 19, 23, 27, 32,38 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Sort through your personal papers and see where you stand. A chance to start something new is looking good. 5 stars 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): You are likely to make a mistake when dealing with children, friends or your partner. Don't be too willing to give in to any demands being put on you. 2 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Get down to business regarding the family situation with which you are dealing. You can't base changes on what you are being told by one person. Get both sides of the story. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): As long as you stick to what you know and plan an eventful day with the ones you love, everything will fall into place. Be sure to keep everyone abreast of what you are doing. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Someone will exaggerate about what's really going on. Don't base your decisions on what you hear. Be careful not to overspend. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll be changeable today but that's a good thing. It will keep everyone around you on their toes and you in an excellent position. 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Someone who promises to do something will probably let you down. Do the work yourself and you will not only put yourself in a winning position, you will gain popularity. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Be careful what you wish for and how you react to the people around you today. Not everyone will be willing to tell you what's actually going on. Make changes even if someone is trying to sabotage your every move. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Get on the Internet and you will discover everything you need to know to move ahead with your plans. Problems with authority figures should deter you from actually taking a trip. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Hold off investing in something today. Get to know everyone involved in any project that interests you before you make your move. A bit of research will reveal a quite profitable investment, if done properly. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may feel uncertain about some of the people in your life right now. If you are the least bit worried about the honesty and integrity someone has, walk away. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If you look beyond the obvious, you will realize an opportunity to actually do something that will make you money and satisfy your soul. Invest in your own ability and you will prosper more than trying to make money off someone else's talent. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: A constant battle will make you wager the pros and cons throughout your life --torn between what's right and what might not be. You are a judge, a mediator and a trusted advocate when it comes to fighting for the underdog. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address _____________________________________ City _______ State _____ Zip______ 
r----------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, November 13, 2006 
page 28 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Two down, four to go 
Irish advance with wins over Oakland, UWM 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee just wouldn't go away. 
No. 1 Notre Dame scored in the first five minutes but had to hang on to beat the Panthers 1-0 Sunday at Alumni Field in the second round of the NCAA Tournament. 
"I thought we got outplayed today," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "The intensity level of the kids was very poor. We made one good play --the goal." 
Forwards Michele Weissenhofer and Kerri Hanks made that one play for the Irish, a give-and-go with Hanks finding Weissenhofer streaking past a defender for an open shot past Milwaukee keeper Erin Kane. 
After that, the Panthers turned up the heat. Milwaukee produced several chances in the first half and tested a depleted Irish back wall that was without injured sophomore Carrie Dew and senior Christie Shaner, who Waldrum said was out with an illness but would be back next week. 
"They created a lot of dan­gerous opportunities by dumping the ball in the box," Waldrum said. 
see NCAA/page 25 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame upends IPFW in season opener 
team has scored under Mike Brey Eleven months after its narrow For the third straight game -"We came out on defense, weBy BOB GRIFFIN in the coach's previous six sea­win in Fort Wayne, Ind., Notre inducting Notre Dame's two exhi­eame out flying," McAlarney said. 
Sports Writer 
sons. In the teams' previous meet­Dame's youth and energy over­bition contests -the Irish domi­"We didn't want them to run their ing last season at IPFW, Notre whelmed the veteran IPFW squad nated their opponent from the stufl" and obviously they weren't Guard Russell Carter led Notre Dame held an eight-point lead at --whieh has nine upperclassmen beginning, using suffocating ball comfortable on offense, so we did 
Dame with 20 points and six 
the half and won 66-64. on its roster -and surprised pressure to Ioree lPFW out of an a real good job of just disruptingrebounds, and forward Rob Kurz "I watched that tape over and Brey, who thought the game might offensive rhythm. everything they wanted to do." 
added 16 points and 12 rebounds over so many times," Irish guard mme down to one possession. Notre Dame foreed two of its 14 Notre Dame had four players in as the Irish took a 32-point lead Kyle McAlarney said after scoring "I did not expect lthe scoreJ turnovers in the first six minutes double figures -Carter, Kurz, for­into halftime and never looked nine points on 4-of-7 shooting and tonight. I was very worried about using its full eourt press, which ward Zach 1-Iillesland (11 points,back in a 92-49 victory over IPFW adding seven assists. "And I came this game after last year," !key not only led to quick transition 12 rebounds) and forward Luke Friday at the Joyce Center. 
out, just tried to really give it to said. "They're seniors, they're baskets but allowed it to settle into llarangody {12 points, eightNotre Dame's 55 first-half points 
them tonight. We did a good job of older guys, they know how to its offense with a comfortable 
were the second most an Irish that." play." lead. 
see IPFW/page 26 
HOCKEY 
Irish take two from BGSU 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
No. 9 Notre Dame picked up two league wins against Bowling Green this weekend and extended its unbeaten streak to eight games on the eve of a erucial two-game See Also series with 
"Irish fans need

No. 5 Michigan Hockey 101" State that 
page24

will have conference -and national -implications next weekend. 
The Irish (8-1-1, 3-0-1 CCHA) defeated Bowling Green 5-2 and 
see BGSU/page 24 


ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Four score in double figures to beat CMU 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Guard Chand Allen led the Irish to success from beginning to end Friday night, leading Notre Dame to an early 17-3 lead in the lirst half en route to an 88-66 win against Central Michigan. 
Allen would finish the game with 15 points in the win -six of which came in the early stretch -but also helped the Irish efl'ort with strong defense with a tough press. 
"Charel got us off to a great start in the game," said Irish coach Muffet McGraw. "She made some shots and then got us started at the line." 
Notre Dame's performance in the first half was characterized by tough defense as Central Michigan was held to only 22 first half points. 

Allen was not alone in the Irish effort. Both Notre Dame centers -senior Melissa D'Amico and freshman Erica Williamson -contributed on both ends of the floor. Williamson was the defensive standout for the Irish, posting five blocks and eight boards, while D'Amico tallied 16 points 
see D'AMICO/page 25 


ND CROSS COUNTRY
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
HOCKEY 

MEN'S TENNIS 
ND VOlLEYBAll 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
loLl 

Notre Dame's men 
The fall season ended
u Irish fresman Kali 
An Observer writer 
Junior Megan Gray

Notre Dame 3 
for the Irish this week-
team received an auto-
became the first Belle

z Krisik and sophomore 
says Irish fans need to 

West Virginia 0 
end with Sheeva Parbhu 
matic bid to the NCAA 
ever to qualify for the

Katie Potts took the 
bone up on their hockey 

The Irish rebounded
::5 

and Ryan Keckley tak­
knowledge. 

Championship with a 
NCAA Championship

doubles title at the Eck 
from a tough loss to 
ing the ITA Midwest
second place finish 
by finishing lOth at the
= cz: Classic Saturday. 

Pittsburgh Saturday by 
Saturday at the Great 
doubles Championship. 
Regional meet. 

shutting out the
=: Lakes Regional. 
Mountaineers Sunday. 
page 23
en 
page 24 
page 21
page 22 
page 22

page 26 



