
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

By EILEEN DUFFY Assistant News Editor 
Imagine Norm from "Cheers" sitting in a beanbag. Could Tom Cruise spin bottles "Cocktail"­style behind a futon? Would seniors still gather at The Oyster ... Coffee Table? 
Some students think so. 
The 2006 edition of duLac: A Guide to Student Life reintro­duces a rule -absent since 2000-01 -prohibiting from dorm rooms "any structure which has by its appearance the function of serving alcohol." However, you can't judge an item of furniture by its cover, junior Matt Barcus said. 
"[A bar] is something that's in essence a table," said Barcus, who lives in Dillon. "Just by 
Bars, satellites prohibited in donns 
DuLac changes anger, confuse University students who take issue with new restrictions 
looking at it you can't assume it's being used for drinking. 
"I don't see how it encour­ages drinking in the room any more than someone who just has a party in their room with a table." 
But bars do just that, accord­ing to Keenan rector Father Mark Thesing. He described bar structures, along with alco­holic signs, as "items that glori­fy drinking, especially abusive drinking." And Father Dan Parrish, rector of Zahm-Hall, said he believes bar structures interfere with the goals of the University. 
"Notre Dame is a Christian community and our job is 'cre­ating citizens for heaven,"' Parrish said, quoting the 
see DULAC/page 8 

Hilton Garden Inn to debut at Saint Mary's 
Hotel expected to open to public next autumn 
By KELLY MEEHAN Saint Mary's Editor 
The scenery surrounding Saint Mary's campus will soon be altered as plans for the con­struction of a Hilton Garden Inn immediately northeast of campus are already underway. 
The 100 to 125 room hotel and 400 to 500 person confer­ence center -expected to open by the start of the 2007 football season -are not under the jurisdiction of the College, but rather the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, which owns the land surrounding the campus. 
Sister Joy O'Grady, president of the Congregation, said she first discussed the construction plans with the Congregation on Jan. 16, 2006. 
She informed the Congregation would be "enter­ing into an agreement with the Holladay Corporation apd Saint Mary's College to lease land bordered by the current Inn at Saint Mary's, Madeleva Drive, Brother Andre Drive and the Indiana Toll Road to construct a 100-unit Hilton Garden Inn Hotel and a 350­
see HILTON/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Radio club finishes in 4th place 
By MEGHAN WONS News Writer 

Though many University stu­dents are not in tune with ND1U, the amateur radio club of Notre Dame, a fourth place finish in a national competition might soon help the group reach a larger audience. 
ND1U nabbed fourth place of 72 schools in the 20th annual School Club Roundup competi­tion sponsored by the Council for the Advancement of Amateur Radio and the American Radio Relay League (ARRL) in February. 
Not bad for a club that two short years ago didn't exist. 
ND1 U president Andrew Carter received the good news in the summer, and the results were published in the September edition of "QST," the official jour­nal of the ARRL. 
With a total of five radio oper­ators participating in the con­test, ND1U made contact with 42 states, six Canadian provinces, eight countries and 34 schools. The club finished behind Arizona State University, University of California Los Angeles and Louisiana State University. 
Carter was excited by the club's performance and said he is pleased with t_he progress ND1U has made since he joined during his freshman year at Notre Dame. When Carter first applied, he said Notre Dame's once active amateur radio club was dormant. 
"I knew that if I went to Notre Dame, I wanted to start up the 
see RADIO/page 8 

Latinist defends language in talk 
ByKIMABEEL News Writer 
Latin is very much alive, said Father Reginald Foster in a Thursday discussion at Notre Dame that emphasized the importance of continuing to preserve the language. 
"Latin is not dead and it never will be," he said. "If it does die, it is no one's fault but our own." 
Foster's passion is spreading the joy of Latin, and he will teach Latin to just about any­one who wants to learn it. The Rome-based priest prefers to be called "Reggie" and is known to students and schol­ars around the world as one of the most dynamic and most gifted Latinists of his time. 
Throughout his talk, which 
see LATIN/page 9 



University welcomes six new hall rectors 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL 
News Writer 

While leading the center of the Notre Dame commu­nity seems a daunting task to many people, six new rec­tors are embracing the opportunity this fall. 
Denise McOsker of Lyons, Sister Denise Lyon of Badin, Linda Cirillo of Lewis, Mark DeMott of Keough, Breyan Tornifolio of Pasquerilla East and Father Ralph Haag of St. Edward's Hall join the 21 returning rectors this academic year. 
Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice president of Student Affairs, is enthusiastic about the new rectors. Fifty-five hopefuls applied for the six available positions. 
"We were just so fortunate to have the folks we have," Lenz said. "Notre Dame attracts, right? As a group, the new rectors just seem so happy to be here." 
An applicant must have a master's degree in his or her respective field and experience working with young people. He or she must also agree to stay three years if hired. While only two are clergy mem­bers, all are from places where the pastoral dimen­sion is very important, Lenz said. 
McOsker comes to Lyons after eight years of teaching 
see RECTORS/page 4 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, August 25, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO WOULD YOU LIKE TO SEE PERFORM AT THE SHOW? 

Off-catnpus 
•
grovv111g 
• 



pams 

In the few days since freshman orientation, it seems as if all of Notre Dame has been full of advice for our newest students. 
This week, as freshmen attend their first col­lege classes and Steve Kerins begin to social­ize with people they barely News Wri~er know, our com­munity stands ready to help them adjust to life away from family and friends. That is one of Notre Dame's greatest strengths. 
As it turns out, though, life is full of adjustments-and it isn't just freshmen who occasionally feel the weight of change. 
Two weeks ago I moved into my first apartment, and since then I've had the chance to rediscover that intense feeling of newness. I've also learned a great deal about independence. 
I've learned that it is possible to dangerously undercook a variety of foods -from salmon steaks to chicken chunks -in the microwave. I don't know whether it's possible to undercook these foods in the oven or on the stove, because I only know how to use a microwave. 
I've learned to keep the screen door shut in the evening, after swatting at obscenely large insects with a sofa cushion the size of a kiddie pool earned me a small crowd of onlookers in the parking lot. 
And I've learned that the fumes of the sinister blue liquid I use to clean my toilet will always make me want to take a brief nap on the bathroom floor as soon as I open the cap, and that a wadded-up bathmat makes a poor pillow. 
Somehow, though, despite these small-time tribulations, I've also discovered a new strength in myself. As I swing my keychain around my finger on the walk to the mailbox, I breathe deeply and enjoy that surge of confidence that comes with the experience of living on one's own. 
Yes, I may only live a quarter mile from campus. And it's true, I may not be able to iron my own shirts. And of course, I had to ask my friend how to use body wash because I've only ever used bar soap, and I don't understand the directions on the bottle. But all of that wisdom will come in time. 
For now, I'm happy that, just like when I was a freshman, I'm blaz­ing a trail through a brave new world of self management. And just like our freshmen today, I suddenly feel like such a grown up. 
But that doesn't mean I wouldn't appreciate some free advice. 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional pub­lication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recog­nize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 







Matthew Baca Ryan Cleary Nicole Koors John Dalhoff Jay Branham Christine Morris 
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Fisher  Stanford  Pangborn  Alumni  
"Guns n, Roses  "Charlie Weis. ,  "Snow Patrol. "  "The Village  
and The  People. ,  
Darkness."  


ALLISON AMBROSEfThe Observer 

Career Center assistant director Rose Kopec, left, and sophomore Notre Dame student Alsa Rocha meet at the Arts and Letters Fall Kick-Off at Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Thursday. 
OFFBEAT 

Cows moo ·with accents, farmers believe 
LONDON-Cows have regional accents, a group of' British farmers claims, and phonetics experts say the idea is not as far-fetched as it sounds. 
Lloyd Green, from south­west England, was one of' a group of farmers who first noticed the phenomenon. 
"I spend a lot of time with my Friesians and they defi­nitely 'moo' with a Somerset drawl," he said, referring to the breed of dairy cow he owns. 
"I've spoken to the other farmers in the West Country group and they have noticed a similar development in their own herds. 
"I think it works the same as with dogs ~ the closer a farmer's bond is with his animals, the easier it is for them to pick up his accent." 
300 pound nude fountain bather defies pollee 
BERLIN -A homeless woman refuses to stop bathing naked in Munich's public fountains despite being repeatedly fined for breaking public nudity laws. 
Bild newspaper reported Thursday the 44-year-old woman named "Bille," who weighs more than 300 pounds, can be seen almost every day with her bottles of soap and shampoo bathing in one of the Bavarian capital's 183 pub­lic fountains. 
"She's already been charged on 21 oecasions for sueh things as causing pub­lic disturbance as well as breaking and entering," a Munich police spokesman said. 
A social worker told Bild that Bille keeps rejecting a room in a homeless center. 
"We can't force her," he said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

...I
c:c 
(,) 


0 

HIGH 88 HIGH 70 HIGH 86 HIGH 83
...I 

LOW 70 LOW 68 LOW 70 LOW 60 
sophomore sophomore Alumni Off-campus 
"Raffi." "Spice Girls. " 
IN BRIEF 

Tonight at 8 p.m., The Show 
2006 presents artists Third Eye · Blind and Common in concert in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. The performance is limited to Notre Dame_, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students with valid 
student IDs. Tickets are $10. 

Multicultural Student Programs and Services will hold their annual Welcome Back Picnic today from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. at Fieldhouse Mall. The event will include free food, music and perfomances by FASO Voices, Hawaii Club and First Class Ladies Steppers. 
The Suite Museum of Art will showcase Mexican migration to the U.S. through a multimedia exhibit that includes Chicano and Mexican visual arts begin­ning Sunday, Sept. 3 in the museum's O'Shaughnessy Galleries, Mestrovic Studio Gallery and the entrance atri­um. 
The sixth annual Saturday Scholar Series will feature six lectures and a performance by leading faculty members on each home football game week­end this fall. The first lecture, "More Than a Movie? Assessing 'The Da Vinci Code'" will be held on Sept. 9 in DeBartolo 101. 
The sixth annual Higgins Center Labor History Film Series will begin Monday, Sept. 11 with the presentation of "Meeting Face to Face: The Iraq-U.S. Labor Solidarity Tour" at 4:30 p.m. in the audi­torium of' the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 80 HIGH 83 LOW 57 LOW 60 
Atlanta 89 1 70 Boston 68 1 58 Chicago 87 I 68 Denver 84 I 59 Houston 93 I 77 Los Angeles 81 I 65 Minneapolis 79 I 63 New York 78 167 Philadelphia 82 I 67 Phoenix 103 I 84 Seattle 76 I 53 St. Louis 94 I 69 Tampa 88 I 76 Washington 84 I 66 
Friday, August 25, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page3 

Priest joins SMC Campus Ministry 
College welcomes Father John Pearson to work full-time in sacramental ministries 
By MANDl STIRONE 
News Writer 
After having only two-part time priests at Saint Mary's last year, Father John Pearson joined the College this fall as a full-time priest on the Campus Ministry team. 
"I love to preach, I love Mass, [and] I love to be able to help people learn to worship better," he said. "It's something I've loved to do my whole priest­hood." 
Campus Ministry director Judith Fean said she is pleased with the selection. Pearson was chosen after an interview process to be a full-time cam­pus minister responsible for sacramental ministries, she said. 
During his high school years, Pearson served Mass for sisters of the Church of Loretto, which granted him an early connec­tion to the College. Pearson said he was attracted to the smaller size of the school, which he hopes will allow him to meet many people. 
"It's an exciting opportunity for me," said Pearson, who will be involved in a number of activities including Sunday and daily masses, reconciliation and liturgy preparation. "I am very much excited to be part of the Saint Mary's family." 
Originally from Chicago, Pearson came to South Bend when he was 14 years old to enter high school at Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame. Though he previously wanted to be a professional baseball play­er for his favorite team, the Chicago Cubs, Pearson ulti­mately settled on the priesthood and was ordained in September of1973. 
After high school, Pearson served as a novice in Minnesota for a year. He then attended college and graduate school at Notre Dame, where he complet­ed an undergraduate degree in psychology and a master's degree in theology. 
Pearson later worked at Notre Dame's Law School and lived in Sorin Hall. He also served as chaplain for graduate students, led an occasional dorm Mass at the University and became director of the White Center. 
Pearson applied for the full­time position at Saint Mary's after 15 years serving the Law School. 
Contact Maridi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Physics professor aw-arded 111edal 
Von Neumann society rewards author, editor 
Special to The Observer 
Albert-Laszlo Barabasi, Hofman Professor of Physics at the University of Notre Dame, has been named the recipient of a major computing award from a leading Hungarian information technology society and is the co-editor of a new book on networks. 
Barabasi is a pioneer in the field of networking as a unified scientific theory and the author of "Linked: The New Science of Networks." His early research led to signifi­cant findings on how networks are structured and how they operate. Of late, he has begun examining how people behave in networks. 
Barabasi is the 2006 recipi­ent of the John von Neumann Medal, which is presented by the Hungarian-based John von Neumann Computer Society for outstanding achievements in computer-related science and technology. The award has been presented since 1976 to a maximum of three individuals who have gained distinction in the dissemination of computer culture. Previous recipients of the award include Microsoft founder Bill Gates, former IBM chairman Louis Gerstner and Intel Corporation board chair Andrew Grove. 

The von Neumann Society is dedicated to preserving the values that should be included in today's knowledge-based society, setting new directions that meet the requirements of the age and actively forming the information sciences world of the future. 
John von Neumann was an eminent mathematician whose work at Princeton University's Institute for Advanced Study (lAS) led to the building of the lAS binary stored-program computer in 1952. 

Radcliff: Liberal policies beneficial 
Scholar studies life satisfaction in society 
Special to The Observer People who live in countries with more expansive welfare programs are more satisfied with their lives than those who do not, according to University of Notre Dame political scientist Benjamin Radcliff, who studies how politi­cal, economic and social factors affect quality of life. The same pattern, he says, applies to geographical differ­ences within the United States: people are happier in states with the most liberal public policies. 
"Critically, 'big government' promotes happiness, not merely for those toward the bottom or middle of the income distribu­tion, but for everyone -rich and poor," Radcliff says. 
Scholars have developed the intellectual infrastructure neces­sary to measure life satisfaction in large, representative samples and thus to test hypotheses about the real world conditions that promote greater levels of well­being. Therefore, Radcliff explained, happiness can be studied with the same precision as the study of public opinion or voting behavior. 
"We know that liberal policies are more conducive to a satisfy­ing life with the same certainty ­and using the same research methods -that allow us to know what causes people to vote," Radcliff said. 

"The same pattern that emerges cross-nationally is also seen across the US: Americans who live in states with higher welfare spending, more liberal state governments, more regula­tion of business, and a greater recent history of control by the Democratic party are more satis­fied with their lives, regardless of income, age or marital status," Radcliff. 
The reasons liberalism pro­motes happiness are complex, according to Radcliff. 
New Course offered Fall2006 
Need another class? "W"ant to change your lit class? 
Class changes may be made until August 30_ 
LLEA 33314 01 Cruel Stories ofYouth: Children and Teens in Japanese Film ·rR 2:00-3:15 Thursday~ 7:00-9:00-Films shown. Prot~. Deborah Shaxnoon 
From the wide-eyed children of anime to the crazy street fashions of Harajuku~ images of kids and teens in Japanese popular culture are now distributed and consumed around the world. How then are those young audiences depicted and addressed within Japanese popular culture? What aspects of childhood or teen irlentity are repeated across generations? In order to answer these questions~ we will look at Japanese films~ including animation~ from across the 20th century, that represent children and teens from a variety of perspectives~ from the celebration of innocence to the threat ofjuvenile delinquency. In addition to analyzing representations of children and teens, students will also gain fatniliarity with Japanese film history and genres, and develop the critical vocabulary of film analysis. 
Fihns will include I Was Born But, c-:razed Fruit, A c-:ruel Story qfYouth, Battle Royale, All About Lily C-:hou C....hou. Nobody Kno1-vs, Grave qfthe Fireflies, and Akira. All fihns will be subtitled. There will also be secondary readings in cultural studies and film studies, relating to the fihns we watch in class. Assigntnents will include an oral presentation~ several short writing assignments, a film viewing journal~ and a longer 
paper. 

East Asian Languages & Literatures 205 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
1-8873 
page 4 


Hilton 
continued from page 1 
seat conference center." 

"Collaboration with the lead­ership of the College and their buy-in to the project was and is a priority for the leadership team and me," O'Grady said in her January 2006 address. 
Mooney said she and the Congregation have communi­cated for more than a year, but "there were many details to be ironed out before the and the land we are getting ­which is the same acreage as that we are giving away -is quite likely higher in value than the land the College is deeding to the Congregation," she said in her Aug. 16 address. "In addition, the College is getting an option to purchase the rest of the plot of land to within ten feet of the railroad land." 
While freshman Allison Bandeen said she hoped the Congregation might have instead used the land for something that would better ben­
plans could be  "It will make things  efit Saint Mary's  
finalized."  different around  students  
This summer, "enough of  here and change our  "maybe additional housing"  
those matters  campus, but I guess  Mooney said the  
were  resolved  the good and bad  new construction  
that it became clearer that the  aspects will depend  would not hinder plans for the  
project would  on the type ofguests  building of a  sec­ 
move forward,"  that stay there. "  ond  Opus  Hall,  
said  Mooney,  should the College  
who formally announced the  Beth Alexander  "decide at some point to move for­ 
plans to faculty,  sophomore  ward  with  that  

staff and administrators at the College forum on Aug. 16. 
"I have tried to cooperate with the Congregation in this endeavor while also protecting the College's interests," she said in her address. "The Congregation, of course, owns the land and may do with it what they like." 
The Congregation made the decision to lease the land to the Holladay Corporation as one of its "financial and growth decisions that will sup­port the Sisters in continuing their ministries around the world," O'Grady said. 
"Through their ministries in healthcare, education, social work, justice and spirituality, the Sisters of the Holy Cross strive to be in solidarity with people of many cultures and nations, witnessing to the mis­sion of Jesus in our global real­ity," she said. 
O'Grady said the decision to build the hotel was made after the Congregation was approached by Holladay Corporation. 
"After much discussion, research and analysis of the feasibility of the project in light of benefits to the congregation and the academic and civic communities of South Bend and the surrounding areas, the congregation decided to enter into an agreement," she said. 
The decision to locate the hotel in the northeast corner of campus was made through dialogue between the College, the Sisters of the Holy Cross and the Holladay Corporation, O'Grady said. 
To accommodate parking for large functions at the hotel, Mooney "resisted locating the parking south of Brother Andre Drive, wanting to pre­serve the green space in front of the College." She instead negotiated a land swap with O'Grady. 
The College has opted to deed one acre of land west of Angela Drive to the Congregation and in exchange will receive the land east of Madeleva Drive in front of the Welcome Center and Madeleva Hall. 
The Congregation's newly acquired land will allow addi­tional parking to the north and east of the hotel and will soften the sharp bend in Madeleva Drive. 
Mooney called the College's newly acquired land a "good exchange." 
"It gives the College a larger buffer in front of our buildings, 
plan." 

"Sister Joy O'Grady has been very collabo­rative in letting me know what the congregation is planning and, when I have had strong objections, she has acceded," Mooney said in her College forum address. 
College spokeswoman Melanie McDonald said while some questions were raised in regards to the hotel's proximity to campus, the College and the Congregation have "worked well together" to "preserve the integrity of the land." 
Those questions are becom­ing more vocalized, however, as the first stages of construc­tion are visible to students. Many trees have been cut down on campus near the con­struction site to accommodate for the new utility poles. Mooney said O'Grady reas­sured her that all trees would be replaced 
But senior Erin Bergman was concerned to see the trees removed and, like other stu­dents, worried the Hilton will not have the same "separation from campus" that the Inn at Saint Mary's does. 
Senior Allison Frane said the architecture of the hotel might " distract from the beauty of our campus." 
"Even with the Inn at Saint Mary's there I feel safe, howev­er with another hotel near campus I am not sure if I will feel safe walking freely around campus," she said. "There could be random people around at all hours of the day." 
"The hotel might take away from the campus," freshman Amy Nitchman said. "It doesn't seem like something that is typically associated with [Saint Mary's]." 
While students echoed con­cerns regarding the location of the Hilton, sophomore Beth Alexander said the hotel would serve a "good purpose for ori­entation and football week­ends." 
"It will make things different around here and change our campus, but I guess the good and bad aspects will depend on the type of guests that stay there," she said. 
Freshman Brittany Ceglarek, however, was not pleased with the Congregation's decision given the current hotel choices present in the area. 
"There are already enough hotels on 9-33, and this one seems to be too close to cam­pus," she said. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
---~---~-~------------­
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 25, 2005 

Rectors 
continued from page 1 

high school in Fort Pierce, Fla. She also taught at Indian Hiver Community College, and prior to that, coordinated laboratory research projects in hospi­tals. 
"I only visited [campus! for the first time in 1997," she said. "I had come for a wed­ding and walked around like a child on her first visit to Disney World. Since then I've always wanted to come back." 
Lyon joins Badin after two years at the Immaculate Heart of Mary Spiritual Renewal Center, preceded by 30 years of teaching experi­ence. She holds graduate degrees in pastoral care and counseling as well as spiritu­ality and monastic studies. With roots in Pennsylvania, Lyons said she is most excit­ed for the first home 

PAMELA LOCK/The Observer Father Ralph Haag of St. Edward's Hall is one of six new rectors at Notre Dame this fall. More than 50 people applied for the positions. 
also interned for the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops Department of Education in Washington, D.C. 
"After eight years at Notre Dame, I'm finally happy to be living on 
against Penn State.  game rival  '7 knew for sure that I was back in a  campus and air condi­tioning and an  
Cirillo, the  new  university setting  elevator work  
rector at Lewis Hall, served 20 years in the U.S.  when [I was] awakened at r a.m.  wonders," said DeMott, who prior  
Air  Force  as  a  by the Fisher men  served as both  
logistics manager and inspector. During that time  serenading our ladies."  a resident assistant and assistant rec- 
she  served  tor at Carroll  
around  the  Denise McOsker  Hall.  
United States and throughout the  Lyons Hall rector  DeMott said he is looking  
Far  East  and  forward  to  

Europe. Cirillo holds gradu­"get more involved in stu­ate degrees in spiritual and dents lives" and devote more pastoral care and human time to the ministry in the resource development. She is hall. also a certified Catholic Torifolio joins Pasquerilla chaplain. East with a master's in high­
Keough's DeMott, a double er education from Geneva Domer, finished undergradu­College. She has six years of ate work in 2002 and will experience working with res­complete his master of divin­idence life and served as ity degree in May 2007. He coordinator of Institutional Research at Wheeling Jesuit University. 

Before becoming rector of St. Edwards Hall, Haag served as the associate pas­tor of St. Gregory the Great Parish in Phoenix, Ariz. He worked with youth groups, directed religious education and created programs for adult faith education while at St. Gregory. Haag earned his master of divinity degree from Notre Dame in 2003 and was ordained a Holy Cross priest in 2004. 
Even under the stress of a very hectic Frosh-0 weekend and first week of classes, the University's newest rectors are now eager to embrace the unique Notre Dame cul­ture. 
"I knew for sure that I was back in a university setting when [I was] awakened at 1 
a.m. by the Fisher men sere­nading our ladies," McOsker said. "Ah, tradition!" 
Lyon said she looks for­ward to "coming to know and love the ND traditions." 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 

-



movies 
Get Paid. 
email sub@nd.edu 

brought to you by thE' student union board. 
or call 1-6171 

SUB.NO.EOU 

ORLD & NATION 
Friday, August 25, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wmE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Western powers may rebuke Iran 
VIENNA, Austria -Germany said Thursday that Iran's response to a package of incentives to halt its nuclear program was unsatisfactory because of its refusal to freeze uranium enrichment, and diplomats suggested Tehran now faces a greater risk of U.N. sanctions. 
Two senior diplomats who were briefed on the Iranian response told The Associated Press that world powers would likely reject it. 
The U.N. Security Council has set a deadline of next Thursday for Iran to freeze enrich­ment -a possible pathway to nuclear arms -and the six nations offering to talk to Iran say such a step must precede the start of any discussions. 
But the diplomats said the 25-page docu­ment does not directly suggest an enrichment moratorium even after negotiations start. 
New planet definiton boots Pluto 
PRAGUE, Czech Republic-Pluto, beloved by some as a cosmic underdog but scorned by astronomers who considered it too dinky and distant, was unceremoniously stripped of its sta­tus as a planet Thursday. 
The International Astronomical Union, dra­matically reversing course just a week after floating the idea of reaffirming Pluto's planet­hood and adding three new planets to Earth's neighborhood, downgraded the ninth rock from the sun in historic new galactic guidelines. 
The shift will have the world's teachers scram­bling to alter lesson plans just as schools open for the fall term. 
"It will all take some explanation, but it is real­ly just a reclassification and I can't see that it will cause any problems," said Neil Crumpton, who teaches science at a high school north of London. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Explosion rocks Louisiana plant 
DOYLINE, La.-More than 10 explosions rocked a bomb recycling plant in north­western Louisiana on Thursday, forcing the evacuation of an entire town and more than 400 prisoners from a nearby jail, authorities said. 
No injuries or deaths were reported. 
A fire at the Explo Systems Inc. site at the Louisiana Army National Guard's Camp Minden triggered a major explosion involv­ing two military bombs about 8:30 a.m., state police said. In the ensuing hours, more than 10 explosions -some intense, some minor -went off inside the plant as the fire continued to burn and thick smoke billowed from the plant, authorities said. 

Iran still has time to avoid sanctions 
WASHINGTON -The United States is awaiting a formal U.N. deadline before seeking any new measures to coerce or punish Iran over its disputed nuclear pro­gram, the State Department says. 
"We're looking at the Aug. 31 date and I think once we get there, we'll begin to take action," State Department spokesman Gonzalo Gallegos said Thursday. 
The U.N. Security Council is set to take up the Iran case on Aug. 31, and could soon consider a new resolution to impose economic or other sanctions on Tehran. The U.S. has long favored sanctions. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Judge reprimands cell phone users 
CROWN POINT, Ind. -A judge detained and questioned a row of spectators when a cell phone rang for a third time in her courtroom, later ordering two people to serve community service for contempt of court. 
When no one admitted having the ring­ing phones Wednesday, Lake County Criminal Court Judge Diane Boswell told all five people in the row to sit in chairs reserved for jail inmates. They stayed there for more than an hour until the morning court call ended. 
JERUSALEM 


Israel deters Iran with purchase 
Country's leaders buy two submarines capable of carrying nuclear warheads 
Associated Press 

With the purchase of two more German-made Dolphin submarines capa­ble of carrying nuclear warheads, military experts say Israel is sending a clear message to Iran that it can strike back if attacked by nuclear weapons. 
The purchases come at a time when Iran is refusing to bow to growing Western demands to halt its nuclear program, and after Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has called for Israel to be "wiped off the map." 
The new submarines, built at a cost of $1.3 bil­lion with Germany footing one-third of the bill, have diesel-electric propulsion systems that allow them to remain submerged for longer periods of time than the three nuclear arms-capable submarines already in Israel's fleet, the Jerusalem Post report­ed. 
The latest submarines not only would be able to carry out a first strike should Israel choose to do so, but they also would provide Israel with crucial second-strike capabilities, said Paul Beaver, a London-based independ­
ent defense analyst. nuclear weapons. It is The Dolphin submarine second-strike capabilities 
Israel is already believed believed, however, to have could be one of the best than missiles launched to have that ability in the the world's sixth-largest deterrents, Beaver said. from airplanes. form of the Jericho-1 and stockpile of atomic arms, The technology on the "Planes are vulnerable, 
including hundreds of subs makes them unde­unlike nuclear (armed)
Jericho-2 nuclear-capable 
ballistic missiles, which warheads. tectable and gives them submarines that can oper­are buried so far under­Iran so far has resisted defensive capabilities in ate for an almost unlimit­ground they would survive calls by the U.N. Security the case of attack, he said. ed amount of time without 
a nuclear strike, he said. Council to halt uranium "They are very well­being struck," Karpin 
"The Iranians would be enrichment, which can built, very well-prepared, said. "Second-strike capa­very foolish if they produce, among other lots of interesting equip­bilities are a crucial ele­attacked Israel," Beaver things, the material for ment, one of the best con­ment in any nuclear con­
said. 

atomic bombs. The council ventional submarines flict." German officials have set an Aug. 31 deadline available," Beaver said. In Germany, members of that is accompanied by "We are talking about a two opposition parties crit­
said the contract for the 
new submarines was the threat of sanctions. third string of deterrence icized the deal. Winfried signed July 6, and the The dispute over capabilities." Nachtwei, national security Jerusalem Post reported Tehran's nuclear program Michael Karpin, an spokesman for the Greens, this week the subs will be revolves around Iran's expert on Israel's atomic said the decision was operational shortly. insistence it wants to mas­weapons capabilities who wrong because Germany 
Israel, operating on a ter the technology simply published a book on the had obtained no guaran­policy of nuclear ambigui­to generate electricity. issue in the United States, tee the submarines would ty, has never confirmed or Critics say Iran wants to said nuclear-armed sub­not be used to carry denied whether it has make nuclear weapons. marines provide better nuclear weapons. 


Karr's flight lands in Colorado 
into a black sport utility vehicle and an accident.
Associated Press 

driven in a convoy to the Boulder jail, Karr's first court appearance in 
BOULDER, Colo. -After a flight on with news helicopters trailing over­Boulder will be scheduled as soon as a state police plane, Mark Karr arrived head. practical, according to the district Thursday in the city where 6-year-old The plane ride offered none of the attorney's office. During an initial JonBenet Ramsey was slain to face prawns, wine and champagne that hearing, judges advise defendants of charges in a homicide case prosecu­accompanied Karr's Thailand-to­their rights to remain silent, to have an tors acknowledged is still in its "very California flight, but the former school­attorney and to post bail unless it's early stages." teacher was allowed to wear dark denied. A preliminary hearing must be 
The three-hour flight from Los slacks and a red shirt instead of a scheduled within 30 days after formal Angeles landed shortly after 5 p.m. at prison jumpsuit. charges are filed. the Jefferson County airport, a few Questions about Karr's involvement Boulder County prosecutors have miles from the upscale Boulder home in the case have arisen since he told refused to detail any evidence they where JonBenet's father discovered reporters following his arrest in might have, but in a court filing this her body on the day after Christmas Thailand last week how he was with week said investigators didn't learn of 1996. Karr, in handcuffs both as he the 6-year-old beauty queen at the Karr's name until Aug. 11, five days entered and exited the plane, was put time of her 1996 death but that it was before his arrest in Thailand. 
--~--~.-----------­

CHECK OUT OUR NEW COLLECTIONS OF DORM COLLEGE HAPPENS. BE READY. ROOM FURNITURE AT WALMART.COM/COLLEGE. WAL•MART· 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS

Friday, August 25, 2006 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

11,304.46 -7.05
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,743 157 1,494 2,019,450,006.00 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ) 
+0.29 +0.11 38.25 INTEL CP (INTC) 
+0.98 +0.18 18.56 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 
+2.50 +0.12 4.92 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 
+0.27 +0.07 25.74 JDS UN I PHASE CP UDSU) 
+3.19 +0.08 2.59 
Treasuries , 
I0-YEAR NOTE -0.21 -0.0 I 4.803 
13-WEEK BILL +0.1 0 +0.005 4.955 30-YEAR BOND -0.22 -0.0 I I 4.939 5-YEAR NOTE -0.08 -0.004 4.77 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.60 72.36 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) -4.50 628.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.43 89.88 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
116.5600 EURO 
0.7831 POUND 
0.5296 CANADIAN$ 
1.1099 

IN BRIEF 
Fannie Mae avoids criminal charges 
WASHINGTON -The end of a criminal investi­gation -with no charges leveled -into alleged accounting fraud at mortgage finance giant Fannie Mae doesn't necessarily mean its execu­tives are free and clear. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission still could bring civil action against individuals, with the burden of proof less stringent than in crimi­nal prosecutions. 
Fannie Mae avoided criminal prosecution over its alleged multibillion-dollar accounting fraud, the latest twist in a saga of intrigue involving a politically potent company. 
The decision, announced Thursday by the gov­ernment-sponsored company, marks one more break in the succession of high-profile financial prosecutions in recent years. 
Federal prosecutors in Washington confirmed they had shut down their investigation of Fannie Mae's faulty accounting after two years. But the SEC could still act, and the federal agency that regulates the company and its smaller sibling, Freddie Mac, is considering possible administra­tive action against former Fannie Mae executives. 

Nippon Steel denies Mittal venture 
TOKYO-Steel giants Mittal Steel Co. and Nippon Steel Corp. denied a report Thursday that they are in talks to build a new automotive steel sheet plant at their U.S. joint venture. 
Japan's top steelmaker Nippon Steel said in a news release that while it was considering boosting capacity in North America, it was not currently in talks with Mittal, the world's largest steelmaker. 
Mittal, which is in the process of taking over Luxembourg-based Arcelor SA, joined in the denial. 
"We do not have a project going on," said Dave Allen, a spokesman for Mittal Steel USA at its headquarters in Chicago. 
The Nihon Keizai business newspaper said in its morning edition that the two companies will spend a combined 30 billion yen (US$258 mil­lion) to build the plant on the premises of liN Kote, a joint venture located in New Carlisle, Indiana. 
A spokesman at the Nippon Steel said that while the company believes that automotive steel sheet output falls short of demand in North America, nothing had yet been decided. 


Wall Street manages small gain 
Stable interest rates and proof of a moderated economy influence investors 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Wall Street managed a razor-thin gain Thursday as investors sifted through data that pointed to stable interest rates but also suggested the economy has moderated more than expected. 
The market was down for 
much of' the day after 
reports of sluggish home 
sales and durable goods 
orders, but stocks then 
turned higher at mid-after­
noon. Investors have been 
struggling to rebound after 
losses this week on concerns 
the Federal Reserve's cam­
paign of rate hikes has hurt 
the economy and that a soft 
landing might be harder to 
achieve. 

The data bolstered views 
the Fed will remain on the 
sidelines for the time being. 
However, slowing economic 
indicators also mean con­
sumer spending is softening 
-a key factor that drives 
the economy and corporate 
earnings. 

"Looking beyond just the 
numbers the trend is obvi­
ously toward slowing hous­
ing demand," said Elisabeth 
Denison, a U.S. economist 
with the securities firm 
Dresdner Kleinwort. "The 
Fed has been banking on 
this to help cap inflation as 
we go through the year, but 
it also calls into question 
that maybe things have gone to 313,000. York Mercantile Exchange. but it's more a case of the 
too far." The Dow Jones industrial Crude has been affected summer doldrums than 
The Commerce Department average picked up 6.56, or this week by continued any major factor. As we reported sales of new homes 0.06 percent, to 11,304.46. uncertainty in the Middle approach the fall, people fell 4.3 percent in July, the Broader stock indicators East, and government data will come back to work and biggest drop since February. were narrowly higher. The Wednesday that showed the volume will pick up." The report came one day Standard & Poor's 500 rising supplies of gasoline Retailers, depressed over after the National index added 3.07. or 0.24 as refiners increased out­concerns that consumer Association of Realtors percent, to 1,296.06, and put. spending has dropped, led reported sales of previous­the Nasdaq composite One portfolio manager the markets lower ly owned homes had a big­index rose 2.45, or 0.11 said the stock market's throughout the session. ger than expected decline, percent, to 2,137.11. earlier drop had more to Chico's FAS Inc. plunged prompting a market selloff. Bonds were flat, with the do with light trading and a $6.13, or 25 percent, to 
Meanwhile, the depart­yield on the benchmark hair-trigger reaction by $17.95 after the women's 
ment said orders to U.S. 10-year Treasury note at investors looking for direc­apparel chain lowered its 
factories for big-ticket 4.80 percent, down from tion. outlook for the third and 
manufactured goods fell 4.81 percent Wednesday. "The summer is a sea­fourth quarters. 
2.4 percent in July as The dollar was mixed sonally weak time for the Williams-Sonoma Inc. demand for aircraft and against other major cur­market, and we're getting dropped $2.71, or 8.3 per­automobiles weakened. rencies, while gold prices into the tail end of that," cent, to $29.89 after the And the Labor Department fell. said Art Nunes, portfolio housewares retailer said the number of Oil prices rose, with light manager of the IMS slashed its outlook for the Americans filing claims for sweet crude for October Strategic Allocation Fund rest of the year due to dis­unemployment benefits delivery up 60 cents at in Bellevue, Wash. "The appointing sales at its last week slipped by 1,000 $72.36 a barrel on the New markets are weaker today, Pottery Barn chain. 

Apple recalls 1.8 million batteries 
In its recall announcement, Apple parts of the battery cell and lead to a Associated Press 
said it has received nine reports of short circuit. 
lithium-ion battery packs overheat­Sony said the recalls will cost it 
SAN FRANCISCO -Ten days after ing, including two cases in which between $172 million and $278 mil­
Dell's record-setting notebook battery users suffered minor burns and some lion. Apple spokesman Steve Dowling 
recall, Apple Computer Inc. told its involving minor property damage. said its recall was not expected to 
customers Thursday to return 1. 8 The Apple recall only applies to older materially affect the company's 
million batteries that could cause notebooks -not the just-released results. Dell has said the recall would 
their Mac laptops to overheat and MacBooks and MacBook Pros. not affect earnings. 
catch fire. On Aug. 14, Dell Inc. recalled 4.1 Apple shares closed Thursday at 
Both recalls involve lithium-ion bat­million faulty laptop batteries -the $67.81, up 50 cents. Dell shares 
teries made by a Sony Corp. sub­largest involving electronics in the closed at $21.78, up 14 cents. 
sidiary in Japan, where the manufac­history of the U.S. Consumer Product Spokespeople at other large com­
turing process introduced metal par­Safety Commission. puter makers. including Hewlett­
ticles into battery cells. Makers of Sony Energy Devices Corp. said the Packard Co .. Gateway Inc. and 
battery cells strive to minimize or Dell and Apple batteries were config­Lenovo Group, the Chinese computer 
eliminate the presence of such parti­ured in slightly different ways. In a maker that bought IBM's PC busi­
cles, which can cause computers to statement, Sony said the problems ness, said Thursday they did not 
short circuit, or, in extreme situa­arise "on rare occasions" when expect to have problems with their 
tions, catch fire. microscopic metal particles hit other batteries. 
page 8 
DuLac 
continued from page 1 
founder of the Holy Cross Brothers, Father Moreau. "I don't think bars really add a lot to that mission." 
The 25 remaining rectors and the Office of Residence Life and Housing agreed with Parrish and Thesing when 
they met last spring, ultimately deciding to  "/did not specifically notify  choose to upgrade to the premium cable  
include the for­ Keenan residents  package.  
mer rule. Kathleen Brannock, assis­ ofthis change to duLac.''  Should bars or satellites appear in a dorm, hall  
tant director of  staffs work  as  
Residence  Life  Father Mark Thesing  the first level of  
and Housing, said  Keenan rector  the enforcement  

changes in the "Housing" section of duLac stem from "trends in resident halls." 
"It wasn't an issue [during its five-year absence from the book]," Brannock said. "Then it was brought up through var­ious rectors last spring and it was decided that we would put it back in ... as further instruc­tion for students." 
There were no cases involv­ing bar structures in dormito­ries last year, Brannock said. 
Perhaps the inclusion of the rule will clear up some ambi­guity, though. While Alumni rector Father George Rozum said bars had not been allowed since the 1970's -no exceptions -Parrish had a more complex understanding of the matter. 
"Technically they weren't allowed," he said, "but because there was no duLac policy in place we didn't enforce it." 
Many students remain ambiguous despite the rein­stated policy. While rector Father John Conley sent Siegfried residents an e-mail in mid-August, other rectors relied on their hall staff mem­bers -who received informa­tion on the change during their training -to pass on the information. 
"I did not specifically notify Keenan residents of this change to duLac," Thesing said. 
Dillon rector Father Paul Doyle did not notify residents early -so when Barcus got to school, he wasn't aware. Nor was his quadmate, another junior who prefers to remain anonymous, who spent 16 hours and $200 constructing a bar with his grandfather this summer. 
The juniors, who turn 21 shortly, have been told to dis­mantle the bar. 
"We just really wish they'd let us known beforehand that there were going to be changes," Barcus said. 
The quadmate called the sit­uation "a big mess." 
Juniors Mike Reilly of Fisher and Mike Hazelback of Keough and sophomore Sarah Ponto of Welsh Family Hall were all in the dark as well. 
"This is the first I've heard of this," Hazelback said. Ponto bluntly asked, ''I'm sorry, what is this about?" 
Their obliviousness under­scores Thesing's view that "the change is really not notewor­thy." 
Students, faculty and staff agreed on the other main change to duLac: the prohibi­tion of individual satellites. 
Not only did the satellites "do terrible damage to the dorms," according to Parrish, but Reilly said "they looked kind of crummy on campus." Farley rector Sister Carrine Etheridge, who witnessed lightning strike a tree in front of Farley this summer, worried about electrical hazards. 
With the exception of a few Zahm men who still miss their NFL Sunday Ticket channel, Parrish said, the installation of cable does provide students the opportunity to watch what 
they want ­
especially if they 

of duLac, Brannock said. They then make reports of violations to ResLife. 
"I don't think it's too hard," Parrish said. "If we see a bar, we take it out. I don't antici­pate there being any prob­lems." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy1@nd.edu 
-----~~~-------------­

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 25, 2006 
levels of licensure. The techni­cian's license, mainly focused on

Radio 
continued from page 1 
club again," he said. 
After contacting a core group of interested professors and stu­dents, Carter went to the Office of Student Activities to apply for official club status and seek funding for the club. 
By his sophomore year, Notre Dame's Amateur Radio Club was in full force. 
The club held meetings every month last year and brought in speakers with different interests and areas of expertise in ama­teur radio operating. The club also held a licensing event last April. Carter said about ten peo­ple showed up to take the test that would allow them to oper­ate the radio equipment. 
The club currently operates out of Cushing Hall's engineer­ing learning center and has approximately ten members comprised of faculty, undergrad­uate and graduate students. There are a large number of electrical engineers in the club, Carter said, but everyone is wel­come. 
Carter said there are different understanding radio-operating safety, is the most basic license and the extra license is the high­est. One test requires an under­standing of Morse code and the ability to "translate" the dot­dash system at a speed of at least five words per minute. 

In the age of cellular phones and instant messenger, why do some people still choose to com­municate with amateur radios? 
"You can be really technical or social in amateur radio -most are both," Carter said. "It's the ultimate social hobby. If you ignore the radio and everything else, it's purely about talking to people." 
Amateur radio was one of the best ways to pass information along in the days before tele­phones were standard house­hold items, he said. 
"Today amateur radios are an important means of communica­tion in situations such as disas­ter relief when phone lines and Internet connections are down," Carter said. 
According to the organiza­tion's Web site, the AAHL has a longstanding relationship with several prominent national 
ROMANCE LANGUAGES AND LITERATURES FRENCH & FRANCOPHONE STUDIES AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Fall 2006 Courses 
ROFR 20201 INTFRMIWIATF FRENCH I VARIOIJSTII\1ES, MWF 
A third-semester college language course. Includes review and expansion ofht•sic grammatical stmcturcs. Extensive practice in speaking and writing. Readings and discussions of a variety of literary and nonliterary texts ofappropriate dilliculty. 
ROFR 4U22U·Ol Lli'E, LOVE, AND LIT.ERATliRE IN RENAISSANCE LYON 
I :30-2:45 MW .1. OellaNevn 
The chief goal is to become familiar with the cultural climate of Renaissance Lyon. This is essentially a literature course with a significant cuhunll studies compont!'nt Spec.Hi~..-uUy. this cours~ will focus •Jn autJtors who lived in Lyon during ib glory days, cotrespouding tn r<>ughly the tir'l. half of tho sixtcemh century; ~CC<\tdingly, 
1

much ofthe course will he devoted to the three pol.:!t.s who c~m1prise th~ 'Lyonnai~ schoor': Maurice ScCvc, Pcrnettc Uu Guillet. and Louise Labe. However. we \Viii read excerpts from many authors associated with this city ut various times in the Re:nai~s;.mc:e. includiug Lemair~ de Bdgc~. Rabdai:-., Marot. and Jeanne Flun.·, .umung. othc:rs, l'vtoreover~ many cultural topics will be addressed. through the prcsenlation of articles on sul~jccts such as music, art~ printing, the roJe of women~ economics (the tb.irs and hanking). medicine, education. religion. and the like, Requ.iremem~ include a brief paper on a literary lopk. an ontl explk:ution of a puem" the oral presentation of an article on a cultural topic, a very hricffirst·hand written dcsctipt'i(m of any Renaissance hook printed in Lyon found in the r.a.rc b{)Ok room ofthe library, and a longer research paper on a cuiLural topic (with a Slm1mary w he presented orally to the class) in lieu of a final exum. lMI'OJUANT: Ira sul'fici~nl number of students ure interested, we may try to arrange a trip h> Ly'm during Fa.ll break! Please comuctthe protbss,1r hy email t\SAP if ohis prospect interests you. Costs will depend largely on the size ofthe grnup interested. 
FICTION ANIIIUSTORY, FROM PERRAULT TO TOCQUEVILLE J:J0-6:15 T ,I. Ooulltwaite 
The course uims to prepare studenls for independent. advanced n::scarch in literary history, with particular emphasis on close reading and textual analy~is, Parlicular attention will he given to connl!c:lions between literary text~ aud historiographical writing. Course involves development of advanced written. oral, and reading skiiJs in French. Although th" student will gain fiuniliarhy whh contempomry theoretkal Jcbales in literature and historiography, written work will primarily focus on literary nnalysis i<1 historical conwxL 
R0~1ANCE LANGUAGES & LITERATURES FALL 2006 ITALIAN STUDIES 
ROIT 42115 DANtE ILAC DISCUSSION GROUP 
T. Cachey. E. Gandolfi 

Students of the Italian language are eligible to sign up for an additional single credit discussion section as part of the Languages across the Curriculum (LxC) initiative in the College of Arts and Letters. Choosing this option means that students will read Dante and meet once a week with E. Gandolfi, a graduate student in Medieval Studies. who will guide discussion of the text in Italian and grade some brief assignments. The LxC discussion section in Italian associated with this course will be graded on apass/fail basis and credited to the student's transcript.. 
Day and Time TBA For more infonnation on this course, please call631-6886 
organizations such as the American Red Cross, the National Weather Service and the Civil Air Patrol. 
Carter hopes his club will con­tinue to grow through new interest. 
"All of the important things [about amateur radio] I've learned from other people ­that's how the hobby moves along," he said. 
The School Club Roundup was held to encourage contacts "with and among school radio clubs," according to an article in the January 2006 edition of "QST." The contest was judged using a point system. When contacting another school's club, for exam­ple, participants received a higher number of points than when they made contact with individual amateur radio opera­tors. Participants could not operate more than six hours a day and could only count 24 hours of operation to be scored over a one-week period. 
Elementary, middle and high schools -as well as universities -were scored in separate cate­gories. 
Contact Meghan Woos at mwons@nd.edu 

For mo:re information on any couxse, call 1-6886. 

The Reader 
jean Honore Fragonard 

Friday, August 25, 2006 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Latin 
continued from page 1 
drew more than 200 students, faculty and alumni from across the nation, Foster com­pared the perseverance of Latin to that of classical music. 
"Latin is no deader than Bach's canons or Handel's concertos -and they're not dead," he said. "And it's our fault if we lose either of these things -not the fault of the early Latin writers or of Handel." 
While Foster agreed that Latin is demanding and cannot be 
study more in-depth or on­site. "Latin is not just Cicero or 
Captor kills self after
the Mass," she said. "It touch­es every aspect of daily cul­
victim flees cellar 
ture -humor, low culture, Augustine, Benedict XVI and 
Associated Press 
Plautus. It's something that we need to continue to pursue." 
STRASSIIOF -Natascha Foster lives in Rome and 
Kampusch vanished on her way works at the Department of 
to school on March 2, 1998, Latin Letters of the Secretariat 
when she was 10. Police said of State at the Vatican. He has 
Thursday they were "quite been there for 37 years, 
sure" she is the young woman including nine years with Paul 
who turned up this week claim­VI and the entirety 
ing she had been a captive, of John Paul II's 
confined much of the time in a papacy. He now 
small cellar. 
lar and reli­giously affiliat­ed schools to teach people Latin and to pro­mote the language's signifi­cance. 
Foster and his colleagues are convinced Latin will not die because "simply too much of Western civilization is based upon it," referring to present-day cultures, history and languages. 
M. Cathleen Kaveny, Notre Dame law and theology pro­fessor and a colleague of Foster's, said there is a "tremendous untapped inter­est" in Latin at the University. 
"I think it's important that Latin is not looked at as the study of a dead language, especially for us as Catholics who claim to still be communi­cating with some of these peo­ple who were writing in only Latin," Kaveny said. 
Kaveny said she thinks peo­ple are interested in studying Latin, and much can be done 
AUSTRIA 
to encourage students to con­tinue exploring the language, such as sponsorship programs for students who would like to 



Kidnapped girl found 8 years later 
learned in a "Latin is not just works with Pope 
The man who allegedly held 

weekend or Benedict XVI. 
the woman killed himself
Cicero or the 
even a week, At his Carmelite 
Wednesday a few hours after
Mass.,,

he said more monastery on the 
she sought help at a home near 
needs to -Janiculum Hill, 
the quiet, small-town street 
and can-be M. Cathleen Kaveny Foster wakes every 
where she says she was held. 
done in secu­morning at 3:40 
While expressing confidence

professor 
a.m. -just in time 

in the women's identity, investi­to turn on the 
gators said they were still wait­radio and catch the 
ing for DNA verification of the nighttime news in his home­
identity claim by the young town of Milwaukee. 
woman, who turned up in a After Morning Prayer and 
garden near the man's house. Mass in Latin, Foster prepares 
But the missing girl's parents for the day's work, which for 
met with the woman and said him is anything but a minor 
they also were sure she is the undertaking. He works with 
daughter who disappeared on documents and translations 
her way to school in nearby and carries out Vatican corre­
Vienna eight years ago. Police spondence in the mornings, 
said she had a surgery scar like and then after lunch makes 
Natascha and reported finding his way across the city to the 
the missing girl's passport in Pontifical Gregorian 
the house. University where he has been 
Police, who confirmed the teaching Latin for more than 
identity of the alleged kidnap­30 years. 
per as Wolfgang Priklopil, a 44­Even at the age of 67, Foster 
year-old communications tech­continues. 
nician, said he killed himself by The Department of Classics, 
throwing himself in front of a the Medieval Institute, the 
commuter train in Vienna. Department of Theology and 
They cordoned off the street the Law School sponsored 
where Priklopil lived in Foster's discussion. 
Strasshof, less than 10 miles northeast of Vienna, and Contact Kim Abeel at 
released photos of the hiding kabeelO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
place in his house where the 
young woman purportedly was held. 
One photograph appeared to show a small, cluttered room and narrow concrete stairs leading down to it from an entrance so small it would have to be crawled through. Another photo showed a metal hatch that sealed the windowless, underground room. 
Federal police spokesman Armin Balm said there was a bed and a toilet in the cramped space. Images on TV showed a small television in the room, which also had a sink and was littered with piles of books. Police said the woman was occasionally allowed to watch videos. 
A female police officer, Sabine Freudenberger, said the young woman told of spending her days with her captor and even doing gardening. She described the woman as "quite chatty." 
Freudenberge~ one of the first officers to have contact with the woman Wednesday, told Austrian television the man apparently threatened her, say­ing that was probably the rea­son she didn't try to flee sooner. 
Police said the young woman had been examined by a doctor and did not have signs of InJUries, but added that her condition was still being stud­ied. 
Freudenberger said she believed the young woman had been sexually abused but didn't realize it. "It won't become clear to her ... She did every­thing voluntarily, she said," Freudenberger said. 
In most cases, The Associated Press does not identify victims or alleged victims of sexual assault. In this case, however, the name of the missing girl has been widely reported because of the circumstances of her abduction. 
Kampusch's mother, Brigitta Sirny, said on Austrian TV she was very proud of her daugh­ter. 
"She said 'mama mausi' to me," Sirny said, recalling the emotional moment she met with the young woman and embraced. Mausi -literally "little mouse" -is a pet name some Austrians use in address­ing their loved ones. 
Kampusch's father, Ludwig Koch, his eyes glistening and voice wavering, said he never thought he'd live to see his daughter again. 
"Honestly, I didn't think that I'd still experience this," Koch said on Austrian television. 

I~UTHERAN SERVICES ELCA Gloria Dei Lutheran Church 
225 E. Haney St. South Bend, IN 46613 

Parking: Broadway at Carrol/ 2 blocks off ?vfichigan Sunday Schedule: 9:00AM-Youth/Adult Sunday School 
10:00 AM: Holy Eucharist 
Need a Ride? 


Tbisword 
isWa¥ 
overpriced. 





;;,::::..:=:: : 
~-t ~::n~:r:;:.:~::r*: ~=n•¥ &h 
mal cc~ntrol trt" Ciilil'la by frt¢®tWt M{ tbtt l iibfficult1tii., partly ~mium hJ t** Mhtrvtvr l by Japan~ pattfy tm'ing to th¢ wit~tft@, e British Inspector-GenL'fal ofCiilftl:mt» 
\~'S: 

:his country [Chinaj could be ren­. the Government provided with a stroke ofthe foreigner's pen, while t be bankruptli.y pure and simple, political chaos, the Customs R.ev­~t year exceeded aU records by l¢s %.tn~ed by the Washington Uf teW!$lJ!Jl¢.•tO· liquidate the whole to: a wm#y thw years, leaving the 
page 10 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Friday, August 25, 2006 
Accusations against governor distnissed 
Judge drops case of hiring discrimination 
Associated Press 
FRANKFORT, Ky. -A judge on Thursday dismissed accusations that Gov. Ernie Fletcher violated state hiring laws, allowing him to get out from a long-running legal jam without personal punish­ment. 
The judge signed an agree­ment dropping misdemeanor charges and ending a case that alleged Fletcher, a first­term Republican, broke the law by basing personnel decisions on political consid­erations. 
The order, signed by Special Judge David E. Melcher, dismissed the charges with prejudice, meaning they can't be brought again. 
"It's over, and I think the people all across the Commonwealth of Kentucky will be very pleased that this sad ordeal is over," Fletcher said. 
A grand jury has investi­gated for a year hiring d·eci­sions by the Fletcher admin­istration. The administration had been accused of illegally giving protected state jobs to political supporters. 
Several witnesses alleged the administration had dis­criminated against them because of their political leanings. They claimed to have been passed over for promotions, transferred, demoted or fired. 
Fletcher was indicted in May on charges of criminal conspiracy, official miscon­duct and political discrimina­tion. 
By settling the matter, Fletcher can seek re-election without the shadow of crimi­nal charges. Attorney General Greg Stumbo, who prosecuted the case and has been considered a potential Democratic candidate, could run without breaking his promise not to challenge Fletcher for governor while the case was pending. 
Melcher ruled this month that Fletcher could not be tried while in office. The judge had asked prosecutors and defense attorneys to try to reach a settlement. 
"We recognized that the governor probably would never stand trial in this case," Stumbo said Thursday after two days of negotia­tions. "Our objective was to see that the law was com­plied with, to see that the truth was brought forward." 
The grand jury returned 29 indictments during its inves­tigation, but Fletcher last year pardoned anyone who was charged or could be charged, excluding himself. 
Doug Doerting, the former state employee who trig­gered the investigation by turning over evidence to the attorney general's office, said that his goal all along was to restore integrity to the state civil service and that he was pleased with the outcome. 
"I agree with the attorney general," Doerting said. "I don't believe the case would ever go to trial." 
Fletcher acknowledged as part of the agreement that the evidence "strongly indi­cates wrongdoing" by his administration, and that the actions were inappropriate. 

Four members of the state Personnel Board, appointed by Fletcher, must resign so that affected state employees can have a fair hearing, and Fletcher will have to select replacements from lists sup­plied by Stumbo. 
In addition, the agreement required the attorney gener­al to acknowledge that any actions taken by the Fletcher administration regarding the hiring system lacked malice. 
Fletcher said he did not "admit to doing any wrong­doing because in fact I've said my conscience is clear." 
Stumbo responded: "That's probably a little more spin than it is fact. What he did or what he didn't do, only he knows." 

Cult leader sentenced to die 
Ohio Supreme Court rules against convicted murderer of five in 1989 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -A reli­gious cult leader convicted of killing a family of five in 1989, which he referred to as "pruning the vineyard," will be executed on Oct. 10, the Ohio Supreme Court ruled Thursday. 
Jeffrey Lundgren, 56, was convicted of shooting to death a man, his wife and his three daughters who had moved from Missouri in 1987 to fol­low Lundgren's teachings. 
Lundgren formed a reli­gious cult after he was dis­missed in 1987 as a lay minis­ter of the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. 
He had attracted a follow­ing, and several people moved with him to a rented farm house about 30 miles east of Cleveland, where they called him "Dad" and contributed 
ROMANCE LANGUAGES & LITERATURES QUECHUATHELANGUAGEOFTHEINCA 
money for group expenses. 
The victims were Dennis Avery, 49; his wife, Cheryl, 46; and daughters Trina, 15, Rebecca, 13, and Karen, 7. 
On April17, 1989, the Avery family was invited to dinner, then led to a barn. There they were bound and placed into the pit, where Lundgren shot each one. The pit was filled with dirt. 
Kirtland police found Dennis Avery's body Jan. 3, 1990, leading to Lundgren's arrest days later in California. A jury convicted him of five counts of aggravated murder and five counts of kidnapping. 
In an unsworn statement at his 1990 trial, Lundgren told the jury that he and his cult were preparing for the second coming of Jesus Christ, which they believed would occur at the Reorganized Church's temple in Kirtland. He said the spiritually unclean had to 
FALL 2006 
LLRO 10101 BEGINNING QlfECHIJA I 
MWF 9:35-10:25, T 9:30-10:45 G. MALl>ONADO 
The principle aims of this beginning-level Quechua Language course art! to encourage r.he development ofcompetency and proficiency in listening, speaking. reading, writing, and to generate cultural understanding through a conummicative approach to second language acquistion. Songs, role-playing and other related activities will also be incorporated. This course is taught in Spanish. 
LLRO 27201 JNTERMELllATE QliECHUA 
T 9:30-10:45 G. MALDONADO 
The principk aim ofthis two-semester language course is to encoumgc the development of competency and proficiency in listening, speaking, reading, writing, and to generate cultural understandiing through a t'ommunicative approadt to second language acquisition. This course is 
designed for highly motivated sn1dents and is taught in Spanish. 
For more information on any course, calll-6886. 

ROMANCE LANGUAGES & LI'I'ERATURES FALL 2006 SPANISH 
ROSP 63110 FROM RECONQUEST' TO RENAISSANCE: MEDIEVAL SPANISH LIT. 12:30-3:15 M D. Seidenspinner-N(u"'ez 
The defining feature of medieval Spain i:::; the Rcconque::;.L, the tluctuating reposses.sion orland~ conquered by Muslim 
invaders in 711 that lasted fi·o1n seven to mvrc than seven hundred yean.. This COUI'SC wlll survey lhe masterworks ofthe Spanish Middle Ages within the ideological. social, cultural. and political context of' r~conquest Spain and will include the khar:jas, P<1ema de rnio (,.~id, rorn<mcero, Los milugros de nuestra Senora by Oon:r..al<l de Berceo, Conde Lucanor by 
Don Juan Munuel. I..ibro de huen amor by Jmm Ruiz. Ardpreste de Taluvern hy Allbnso Marlfnez de Toledo, C{1rccl de umor 
by Diego de San Pedro. Celestinu hy Fernnndo de R<~jas. and mis:<~e-llaneous sele~tions. Primary t~xts in Spo.nish will he supplemented with critical. scholarly, cult.lu·aL find theoretical read·ings in Spani'Sh and English. The course will b~ taught in English; courscwork will comprise oral presentations, midterm and final exams. and a paper. 
ROSP 63911 PSYCHOANALYSIS AND THE RAROQUE 3:30-6:00 T R. Rios-Avila 
This c~.:mrse proposes an analogy between Ihe aim of psychoanaly.~is --the umnask.ing ordvili:z:ati01fS "discontent"-­and the understanding of the Bliroque HS a poetics ofdesengm)o. lt departs rrom Lacan's di.~cussion of(i-racilln's El Critic(m in his Seminar XVH. Th.e Reverse ofPsydwanalysis, ""her!! 1he notion ofa radical critka.l gesture-is <:oncei\'t::d us the birthing 
ofrruth. Our re1uJing ~-illund~r$core th~ u.nalytical stand ofth..:" Baroque vis-a-vis l.hc baroque h>gic. ofp~yt.:hoanulysh;. To the extent that they are both rhetorics ofthe signifier, we will also expl(lrc their anlag.t>nistic relationship to modcmity through their simultaneous defense and undermining ofthe supposed auton'-)my ofrenson. The Buroque will be cxamineU thruugh close readings ofsome ofits classical texts hy GOngora. Gracii.'m and Sor Juana, as well :.ts ~omc of its most daring mod~rnist 
or nco-baroque re-writing~ in texts by Le:l'..a.ma Lima. Severo Sarduy, ReinaJdo Arenas and NCstor Pcrlongher. 
ROSP 63970 SPANISH AMERICAN SHORT STORY 3:30-6:00 W H. Verani 
This course '"·ill provide an overview ofthe principal ae~lhelic and socio··hislorical lendencics that have characterized short lklion (short slory and nouvelle) in XXI.h Century Spanish America. Authors discu!-lsed will Tnclude Jorge Luis Borges, 
be dealt with. 
Lundgren said a combina­tion of messages from the Bible told him to kill the Averys. Cult members had testified that although the Averys were members of the sect, Lundgren considered them less enthusiastic. 
Lundgren, his wife and son were among 13 cult members arrested in the case. Most lived at the Kirtland farm, and some pleaded guilty to reduced charges. 
Alice Lundgren was sen­tenced to five terms of life in prison for conspiracy, com­plicity and kidnapping. Damon Lundgren was sen­tenced to life in prison for murder and kidnapping in four of the slayings. 
Jeffery Lundgren has exhausted all his appeals, said Bob Beasley, spokesman for Attorney General Jim Petro. 



.h1lio Cortazar. Juan Carlos~ Onc-!tli, Juan Rulfo. Gahr.i~~~ Garda fvUirque?., Mario Vurgas Umm n.nd Jose Emilio Pacheco. 
Course grade will be dct~nnined by one 12-.15 pa.gt:: tem1 paper, weekly (;ritiqu~..~s. and class pu.rticipution. For more infonnation on any course, call 1-6886. 

The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT • page 11 



Join us as ·our brothers in Holy Cross celebrate their profession ofperpetual vows and consecrate the~selves to Christ forever. 
• 

Saturday, August 26, 2006 2:30p.m. at Sacred Heart Basilica 

Peter M. McCormick, C.S.C. 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, August 25, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
No room for new inn 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Saint Mary's women are fiercely proud of their school. for the College to closely monitor if the 100-plus rooms
024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

So proud that they will immediately defend the institu­overflow with guests.
EDITOR IN CHIEF 

tion -ranked No. 1 by U.S. News & World Heport among In addition to the safety concerns the hotel will raise,
MikeGilloon 

107 Midwest Comprehensive Colleges -against any per­there's also the physical campus to consider. The beauty 
MANAGING EDITOR BuSINESS MANAGER 
ceived outside threat to the College's way of life. of Saint Mary's is striking. The idea of a Hilton planted in Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara In this case, that outside threat hits a little too close to that idyllic setting is off-putting. home -literally. The 100 to 125-unit Hilton Garden Inn College President Carol Ann Mooney defends the right of
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gorrumukkala 
Hotel planned to be built just northeast of campus has the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross to man­
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
stirred debate among Saint Mary's students. age the land. But there are ways for the NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
O Lfhe

And rightfully so. userver Congregation to advance its mission while Mary Kate Malone Only 1,500 women attend Saint Mary's. keeping students in mind. VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King Any construction right off campus will signif­The College is grounded in 162 years of
Editorial
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler icantly impact such a small, close-knit com­tradition, tradition that stems from its ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader munity. Especially when the end result of founders, the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan that construction will be a hotel open to a very large -Those sisters envisioned a serene campus to allow PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella and unknown -community. · women from all over the world to grow intellectually and GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert The idea of a hotel in close proximity to Saint Mary's spiritually, but a piece of this dream is lost with the con­
campus is not unprecedented. After all, the Inn at Saint struction of a chain hotel on campus borders.
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
Mary's takes in thousands of guests each football season. Anyone who has attended the College -or simply set 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: .Nina Pressly 

But given its nearness to the popular on-campus Opus foot on campus -knows the beauty associated with Saint 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 

apartments, another hotel is one too many. Mary's far exceeds the benefits of a Hilton Garden Inn 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 

Keeping students safe is an issue that will be difficult Hotel. 
SYsTEMs ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631"7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsrne@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
• (574) 631-5303viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
srnc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS S99 2-40UO) is publish~ Monday through Fr.iday except during enm and vacarinn periods. A ~ubscriprion to The Observer is $100 fnr one academk year; $5S for tm.e scmcs1er. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall &nd address correcrions to: 
Notre Dame. IN 46556.-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. &.779 and addilional mailing offices. 014 South Dining Hall 
Notrt Dame, IN 46556-0n9 

The Observer is a member oflhe ~iared Pres.~. All n:pmduction rights are rc:scrved. ~ 

Extending my fifteen minutes of fame 
With the advent of each new school year comes the worn-out, age-old question, "What did you do this sum­mer?" As a columnist, that question dogs me each fall as I prepare for my initial writing. One autumn, I reviewed my four-month sum­mer federal jury service in which we convicted a man of 73 counts that included murder and resulted in his sen­tencing to serve sev­eral life terms. For me, that summer experience was the pinnacle event of my life, ranking just ahove a summer during my student days at Notre Dame when I volun­teered to work in a New York City congressional campaign. That is, until this summer. 
This summer was born last April on the Monday after publishing my final Observer column. A whirlwind of media interest descended upon me after a feature article along with my etched likeness appeared on the front page of The Wall Street Journal. The banner blared, "Softball on the Mall Was Bipartisan Fun Till Politics Intruded." 
The Journal's exposure triggered my appearance on The Daily Show with Jon Stewart as well as additional coverage by ESPN Magazine, Washington Post Radio, Current TV, Fox News, ABC News, Roll Call Newspaper and other print, broad­cast and Internet outlets. Yet, the popular notion that in life we all attain 15 minutes of fame is a prevar­ication. Sometimes notoriety-even as seemingly silly as mine-refuses to fade from our 24-hour news cyele if the story rings an element of truth to the average citizen. 
At times, and particularly this time for my situation, notoriety endures if' conditions evolve into another ehap-

Gary Caruso 

Capital Comments 
ter of the anecdote. That transition of gears is almost like an involuntary shifting from undergraduate senior to master's candidate without ever plan­ning on postgraduate work. It is another of life's twists that each of us must learn to face. For me, the story became an expose on how the elite House Republican congressional staff, beginning with the speaker and majority leader's offices, who through their positions controlled the business and political aspects of the federal government needed to also control "play time" or would take the ball and go home. 
It began in late 2005 when ~-mail exchanges over our handicapping of only the first round of our year-end softball tournament seeding process exposed the true character of many of these elite Republican staff. More casual teams were paired against other casual teams in the first round before facing the serious teams. One unhappy s·erious player called it "Softball Welfare -aiding the weak by punishing the strong." Another barked, "The commissioner has a long-standing policy of punishing suc­cess and rewarding failure. He's a Democrat. Waddya expect?" 
"It's competition, you know. We are not here to encourage people, we are here to pick the best team," wrote another. One note said that top teams "are being screwed by your Softball Welfare Braeketology." 
"It's pretty well known that most of the competitive teams and most of the fun teams are Hepubliean," says the captain of another Hepublican team. "Maybe we are just more talented people." 
That sentiment explained why a staff member from Ilouse Speaker Dennis llastert (H, Ill.} spearheaded a secession last March of mostly llepubli£:an sponsored softball tnams from the 37 -year-old Congressional Softball LPague of whieh I am tho commissioner. "What's the regular season for?" asks the now cornmis­sioner of the new league. "It's very irritating to teams like ours who are 12-0." 
Ironically, once the new league formed~ it handicapped its entire sea­son with power rankings. But rather than simply playing games and pro­moting the new league, the upstart leaders called our casual league "communist" in ESPN The Magazine and walked out on the taping of The Daily Show after sending text mes­sages that coverage would be nega­tive for the GOP. They chose to selec­tively speak with Fox News, but refused other inquiries. 
The lesson learned is that those whose profession depends upon com­petition need to learn how to relax in a casual league that does not operate on any uniform set of rules. For those who want more serious play, create and promote a competitive league rather than demonize those who make the informal games fun for every team, including such casual teams as those who do not allow any­one to strike out. 
Life is an interesting venture, and ironic at every turn. For elected members of congress who covet their likenesses above the fold on the front page of the Wall Street Journal, but for whom it has eluded them, my image stands alone on an April day. That may be a reason why the clock has ticked longer than 15 minutes for me. It may also be a reason for voters this fall to abandon Republicans not so much over policy as for the t~har­acter flaws exposed by the "softball wars." 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a political strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. /lis column appears every other Friday.· lie can be contacted at hot­tline@aol. com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obsen•er. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports QUOTE OF THE DAY Katie Perry Kate Gales Joe Piarulli Jay Fitzpatrick 
Marcela Berrios Greg Arbogast 

"Nothing is soJoodfor an ignorant man
Jenny Hames Scene 
as silence: an ifhe was sensible ofthis Viewpoint Marty Schroeder · he would not be ignorant." Joey King Brian Doxtader 
Saadi
Graphics 
Persian poet
Jeff Albert 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Friday, August 25, 2006 page 13 
The War on Errorism 
Listening to NPR the other week, I heard a short clip of an interview with a man whose home had just been bombed in Lebanon. It summed up my feelings on not only Israel's latest foray into the war on terror but also the strategies and opera­Will tions of the United McAuliffe States. In a thick accent he said some­Strategery thing to the effect of "I Analyst did not like Hezbollah before. But now I have no home, so I will get a gun and fight Israel with Hezbollah." This man, to me, is the spokesperson for all those who have new-found hatred for the United States and the West since we began waging our war on terror in September of 2001. 
The real question is not whether he speaks for those who have recently answered the call of terrorist groups such as AI Qaeda or Hezbollah. The real ques­tion is: are we listening? Are we listening to this man and the many others whose voices don't make it onto the radio or any other media outlet, indicating that they have nothing left and have been backed into a comer by our overbearing foreign policy? I think that the attitude of truthi­ness that has pervaded the Bush adminis­tration since long before "Mission Accomplished" tells us that they are not being heard. 
This lack of attention to the populations of the Middle East will certainly prove to be one of the most costly strategic mis­takes in U.S. military and political history. This region is where the majority terror­ists are recruited, trained and harbored. This fact makes it a strategy of ignorance to attempt to bomb terrorist networks into submission by attacking a general popula­tion, the most recent strategy undertaken by our buddy Israel. It also makes a trav­esty of our efforts in Iraq. 
The standard of living in Iraq has plum­meted since the commencement of our occupation in 2003. Electricity, plumbing and other elements of the infrastructure have not been restored and civil war now looms. However, at this time of defming crisis, calls to pull out or "redeploy" from Iraq grow louder each day. It makes me wonder, what did we think was going to happen? Oh, that's right. We were going to be greeted as liberators. The thing that puzzles me is this-what did the admin­istration think that such a greeting would produce? Did they think that people cheering in the streets and waving American flags would bring clean water back to decimated neighborhoods? Did they think that the introduction of free­dom and democracy would somehow turn all the lights back on in Baghdad? The lack of forward thinking and planning shocks and frightens me. I sincerely hope that this administration will get out of office before it starts any other messes with no plan for success. 
The administration's execution of the post "Mission Accomplished" Iraq also shows a severe lack of understanding as to how terrorism works and where it comes from. Terrorism starts with an idea, a belief that something is so horribly wrong that it must be destroyed, eliminat­ed, and that this thing is so terrible that the loss of innocent life is warranted in its elimination. People do not just wake up with such deep-seated hatred. This hatred is planted, fostered and channeled through a narrow perspective of world affairs, distortion of the truth and, often, outright lies. Clearly then, we see that we cannot prevent all terrorism as we cannot prevent lies from reaching susceptible ears. 
However, we can force ourselves-to look through this narrow perspective on world affairs and U.S. foreign policy in the hope that it will indicate to us how we can bet­ter conduct our war on terror. We cannot rid terrorist leaders of persuasive lies but we can at the very least counter their lies by denying them factual evidence that the West is evil-and also demonstrate that the West can be a positive, healing, peace­ful power in an unstable region. 
We need to understand that the battle­field on which we will face terrorism is not in the villages of southern Lebanon, the streets of Baghdad or the alleyways of Kandahar; it is in the home of every civil­ian in the Middle East. The battle will not be won with all the technology that a 425 billion dollar defense budget has to offer us. This battle will be won by gaining the trust of a region that we have intentionally "bombed into the stone age" not too long ago. We must fight this battle with educa­tion and understanding. We must fight with the compassion that is necessary to prevent the frustration and ignorance that turns civilians into terrorists. We must actively seek to better understand these cultures, the root causes of terrorism and how to prevent dissidents from swaying others to their destructive, terrorist caus­es. We must fight our own ignorance as a nation and call for change in the brutal and counterproductive methods undertak­en by our forces abroad. To win the war on terrorism abroad, we must first win the war on errorism at home. 
Wzll McAuliffe is a senior Political Science major with a serious love for the Colbert Report and Fox News. All letters of support, disdain or funny Backer experi­ences should be forwarded to his personal assistant at mcauliffe.4@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

U-WIRE 


In defense of 
'The Daily Show' 
C'Ville Weekly's front page this past week featured a picture of Jon Stewart with the headline "IS THIS MAN KILLING DEMOCRACY?" The article went on to explain that researchers at East Carolina University had stud­ied and documented a phenomenon known as "The Daily Show Effect." Exposure to the 
A.J.

show, according to the study, causes 
Kornblith

college-aged individuals to be more likely to have negative perceptions of University of candidates and to be cynical about Virginiapolitics in general, thereby possibly Cavalier decreasing their involvement in poli­Dailytics. 
This is baloney. Yes, "The Daily Show" is satirical ­it draws its biting humor from pointing out the most foolish examples of politics-but if that commentary translates into cynicism in the show's audience, it's their own fault for not keeping the show's humor in proper perspective as entertainment. Furthermore, in nearly all of the regular viewers I know (myself includ­ed), the end product is encouragement, not cynicism. 
In his book "The Fifth Discipline," acclaimed MIT professor and management expert Peter M. Senge wrote, "Scratch the surface of most cynics and you find a frustrated idealist -someone who has made the mistake of converting ideals into expectations." Most people who are turned off by politics seem to fit this definition. They are convinced that things are so bad or that they are so powerless that there is nothing they can do about it. The mass media can and often does play into this mindset by highlighting all the bad things happening across the globe. This concentration on the negative occurs not because those events are more important but because they get better ratings. 
"The Daily Show" lampoons this gloom and doom by sarcastically trying to one-up it. In a piece from "America: The Book," produced by Stewart and his colleagues, Stephen Colbert asks, "Does your vote make a difference?" Colbert responds, "Imagine your vote as a deer tick. And the election as the continent of Asia." This mimicry of the often palpable cynicism in the news media is so over-the-top that if it does make you want to cry, it's because you're laughing so hard you have tears in your eyes. Stewart and company deliver this sort of comedy better than anyone else in the business. 
One error of perspective that some viewers make is to misunderstand the show's intent. In an old adver­tisement for the show, a voice-over announces that a new poll has shown that more Americans trust "The Daily Show" for their news than anywhere else. The camera then cuts to Jon Stewart, who screams at the camera, "Don't do that!" Stewart is an entertainer, and he has never claimed to be anything but that. "The Daily Show" highlights political absurdities in order to mock both absurd politicians and those in the media who treat them as important. 
The other and perhaps more important error of per­spective that viewers might make if they tend towards cynicism is losing sight of their own capabilities as citi­zens. Most "Daily Show" regulars regard Stewart -or more accurately, the character he plays -as a role model who keeps his head on straight when everyone else seems to be losing theirs. If there's a trait in par­ticular that I've noticed most "Daily Show" regulars try to emulate, it's Stewart's sense of perspective rather than his mock cynicism. In a conversation I had recently with my 17 -year-old brother, who's also a reg­ular viewer, he segued smoothly from talking about how he should tape the show so he doesn't miss it into talking about how he couldn't wait to be old enough to vote. 
Similarly, "The Daily Show" and the news programs it mocks challenge me to think harder about what I can do as a citizen. Colbert is probably right that my vote will never probably swing an election, but by the same logic, most votes cast by members of Congress don't really matter unless one member casts the decid­ing vote. Obviously enough, they still have a pretty important job. Voting is the most basic form of partici­pation in a democracy and, accordingly, one of the weakest. To expect that just by voting I can have a major impact on politics is to head straight down the path that Senge says will lead to disillusionment and cynicism. Attaining more sway than a simple vote takes time, talent and treasure as well as a willingness to spend them. Far from discouraging me, "The Daily Show"'s commentary convinces me that the extra effort is both important and badly needed. 
The East Carolina University study pointed out that "The Daily Show Effect" was strongest among viewers who infrequently or never watch the program, where­as regulars were largely unaffected. Perhaps Jon Stewart and his political wit take some getting used to, but for those of us who understand where he's coming from, the result is anything but bad for democracy. 
This column originally appeared in the August 24 edition of the Cavalier Daily, the daily publication at the University of Virginia. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

No excuse for 
idiocy in college 
By the time a student enters the environment of higher education, it should be safe to assume he or she has accumulated at least a meager collection of common sense. 
Looking both ways before crossing the street, for example, shouldn't be forgotten no matter how much one 
Zach Lee

drinks. 
At the university level, there are no crossing guards to blow University of their whistles so we can mean­
Houston der across a busy intersection. Daily Cougar And there shouldn't be. By that same logic, though, another grade-school rule should still be clear in the minds of college stu­dents: Don't talk to strangers. Sure, meeting people is important, and talking to new people at one of the famous parties at the University of Texas at Austin is as much a part of college life as waiting tables, but in both of those situations, students are there themselves to make decisions about what personal information gets told to whom. In person, making the decision to with­hold certain information is easy, but on MySpace, everybody gets everything. Several universities decided to treat their incom­ing freshmen like drunken idiots this year by including skits and information sessions about the danger of putting too much information on MySpace and similar Web sites, warning them about the current trend among employers to screen applicants by looking at their online profiles. High school is supposed to prepare students for college, and college is supposed to prepare students for the real world. There's no one left to warn gradu­ates about running with scissors once they get there. Every college student will come across Charles Darwin's theory of natural selection at least once in a half-decade dance with intellectualism, and it is a concept that applies well to those students who lose jobs or internships because they bragged about their drunken exploits online. Those who cannot adapt will not survive. Then again, Tom has 103,477,675 friends. 
This column originally appeared in the August 24 edition ofthe Daily Cougar, the daily publication at the University ofHouston. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

THE SHOW 2006 FEATURE 
By STEVE KERINS 
Scene Writer 

The biggest concert of the year has arrived. 
Headliners Common and Third Eye Blind will play at The Show 2006 tonight at 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Since its debut five years ago, The Show has grown into one of the best-attended events during the first weeks of classes. 
"Everyone has been excited and the general consensus is that this is one of the biggest events at Notre Dame in a long time," said senior Patrick Vassel, chair of The Show 2006 Committee. 
The Show bills itself as the University's largest student-run event, and it has been produced with the support of the Student Activities Office since 2002. Although The Show is student-run, it receives some financial and logistical support from the University. 
In the past two years, The Show has grown into the largest concert held on the Notre Dame campus, and a committee of students that forms during the spring semester plans it each year. Its members oversee all aspects of The Show's produc­tion, from finances and budgeting to mar­keting and graphics. The Committee includes Saint Mary's and Holy Cross liaisons. 
This year, as in past years, students' artist preferences were gauged from responses to an all-campus survey sent in March. However, it can be a difficult date to book. 
"[The Show] is right in between the summer touring season and the fall tour­ing season, so it's a time when a lot of the bands take time off or go to Europe," Vassel said. "It's a difficult date to book and we were fortunate enough to bring in two solid headliners." 
He also noted that some bands were just too expensive. 
"Common and Third Eye Blind were the highest choices we were able to work out and, to be hon­est, we were also marked The Show's move to its cur­rent venue, the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
+ 
Two years ago, rapper Talib Kweli, on tour leading up to the release of his second album "The Beautiful Struggle," was featured along with singer-song­writer Jason Mraz, who performed music from his freshman album "Waiting for my Hocket to Come." 

+ 
Thrne years ago, in 2003, Black Eyed Peas, fresh from the success of their first major hit album "Elcphunk," performed 


with alternative rock band Guster, 
very lucky to be who had recently
The Show 2006 

able to bring released its fourth
Featuring Common and Third Eye Blind
them both," studio album Vassel said. Where: The Joyce Athletic Convocation Center "Keep It 
When: Tonight at 7 p.m. 
"When we Together." Black 
Tickets: $10, Lafortune Box Office
were able to Eyed Peas came to 
secure our headliners, we knew we had the best lineup possible." 
Since its inception, as an event spon­sored by FlipSide and the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, The Show has been able to draw higher-profile artists each year, alternating between popular new­comers and veteran musicians. It has grown into its on student committee rec­ognized by the Office of Student Affairs. 
Its 2006 incarnation continues the tradi­tion of juxtaposing hip-hop and rock artists, which provides a varied <Toss-sec­tion of musical styles. 
+ Last year, Cake, a mainstay of alter­native rock, played alongside breakout hip-hop singer and songwriter Akon. 2005 The Show directly 
from MTV's Video Music Awards, and Guster kicked off their 2003 tour at Notre Dame. This was also tho year an increase in popularity brought Tho Show to the Joyce Center. 
+ 
2002 featured co-headliners Better Than Ezra, who performed during an extended period of nationwide touring a ynar after the release of their album "Closer," and George Clinton and the Parliament Funk, one of the forerunners of American funk music. 

+ 
They Might Be Giants headlined the lirst show, known then as Flipstock. Hock groups SH-71 and Nine Days opened. 


Common comes to Notre Dame after years on the underground rap scene and the 2005 release of his acclaimed latest album "Be." Third Eye Blind has pro­duced several hit singles since their debut album in 1997. and released a Greatest Hits CD called "Third Eye Blind: A Collection" last month. 
"Tickets are selling extremely fast ­much faster than any year I've been involved," Vassel said. "We're telling peo­ple to buy them as soon as possible because at this rate, it's tough to say how many we will have left at the door." 
One notable departure from previous years that will greet students as they arrive at the Joyce Center tonight involves a change in seating arrangements. Seating will be available on the Fieldhouse floor, and the barricaded areas where students had stood in front of the stage have been eliminated. 
"This should giv.e everyone a more inti­mate, exciting feel to the concert," said Vassel. 
The Show 2006 is again working in con­junction with NDTV to provide a live video feed of the event broadcast onto large screens flanking the stage. Before the concert begins, the screens will be used to scroll the names of this year's many spon­sors. 
Tickets for The Show 2006 remain on sale for $10 at the LaFortune Box Oflice. The show takes place at the Joyce Center and doors open at 7 p.m. 
More information can be found at http://www3.nd.edu/-theshow 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd.edu 




I 
I I--­
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Friday, August 25, 2006 
page 15 

THIRD EYE BLIND FEATURE 
By MARTY SCHROEDER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
The curse of the post-grunge scene plagued a plethora of bands from the late 1990s -they had their moment in the spotlight, some reaching the outer strato­sphere of America's pop music kingdom, but very few of them outlive their initial success and fade into nostalgia for their generation. 
Harvey Danger and Hootie and the Blowfish, two examples of such bands, are known when heard every so often on the radio but are also almost instantly for­gettable. 
Third Eye Blind, who is playing at the Joyce Center Friday, went through such a journey. Beginning in San Francisco, frontman Stephan Jenkins began playing solo shows after graduating from the University of California with an English degree. After playing with various local bands for four years and trying his hand at a solo act, Jenkins joined with Arion Salazar, former bassist for Fungo Mungo. This was the point where the band became known as Third Eye Blind, but the group was not complete and more shows were played. 
As luck would have it, a student of famed guitarist Joe Satriani named Kevin Cadogan saw Jenkins and Salazar play a 

COMMON FEATURE 
By CASSIE BELEK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
While the majority of Notre Dame stu­dents are buzzing about Third Eye Blind performing in The Show tonight at the Joyce Center, they're in for another pleasant surprise. 
Thirty four-year-old rapper Common, (born Rashid Lonnie Lynn), has not achieved as much mainstream success as Third Eye Blind, but has actually been on the music scene longer. Not only has Common released .more albums, but he's garnered more Grammy nominations, including four from his 2005 album "Be." 
Common's latest success can be large­ly attributed to not only his own talent, but to the help of the popular Grammy­winner Kanye West, who produced much of "Be" under the G.O.O.D. Music label. 
Common himself was nominated this year for Best Rap Album, Best Rap Performance by a Duo or Group, Best Rap/Sung Collaboration and Best Rap Song. He formerly won a Grammy with Erykah Badu in 2003 for the track "Love of My Life." 
gig in San Francisco. He joined Third Eye Blind as a guitarist in 1995. He also brought a drummer with him, Brad Hargreaves, the former drummer for Counting Crows, who completed the line­up. At this point, a viable mixture of per­sonality and talent had come together and Third Eye Blind set their sights higher than the local scene they had known for the last five years. 
However, the constant playing in the Bay Area was not all wasted effort. 
"By playing the Bay Area frequently, Third Eye Blind cultivated a dedicated fan base, and the group's original 14-song demo attracted the attention of major labels," said critic Stephen Thomas Erlewine. 
The band nurtured its image and sound and developed a dedicated fan base, but its big break was still to come. Oasis was scheduled to play at San Francisco's Civic Auditorium in April 1996 and Third Eye Blind managed to acquire a spot in the line-up as the opening band. This concert was the watershed event for the up-and­coming band. They were able to play to a huge crowd, but more importantly, they were able to get the ear of record execu­tives that were looking for new talent in the late-90s, post-grunge music scene. 
A bidding war broke out after the show and when the dust cleared, the band had signed with Elektra/Asylum due to the fact 
Straying away from the themes that the most popular hip-hop songs currently possess, Common has established a repu­tation of exploring social issues with his music. His songs are more poetry than anything else. This alienated many main­stream rap fans at first. 
"A substantial underground movement had set about reviving the bohemian sen­sibility of alternative rap, and Common finally started to receive wider recognition as a creative force," said critic Steve Huey. 
He raps about everything from what the corner meant in his neighborhood to find­ing love to conscientious political com­mentary. 
Common began his career under the name Common Sense, releasing his first album in the early 90s. His albums have been released regularly over the course of a nearly fifteen year career. They include "Can I Borrow a Dollar?" (1992), "Resurrection" (1994), "One Day It'll All Make Sense" (1997), "Like Water for Chocolate" (2000), "Electric Circus" (2002) and most recently, "Be" (2005). 
Common is also currently working on a seventh album entitled "Finding Forever," though a release date has yet to be determined. 
that this label promised the most artistic freedom. Jenkins had also been hired to be the producer, which allowed the band to work completely within itself and make the music they wanted. 
Their major label debut came in the spring of 1997 in the form of the self­titled "Third Eye Blind." The now ubiqui­tous single, "Semi-Charmed Life," had become a rock hit at the time of the albums release and pushed the album into the Billboard Top 200 where it stayed for over a year. 
Other hits included "Jumper" and "How's It Going to Be." This was the beginning of the bands popularity, howev­er it was also somewhat of an end. Third Eye Blind has never quite written a song as popular as "Semi-Charmed Life." This song is their life's blood, but it was also a death knell. 
Granted, their second album, "Blue," (released in 1999) did sell over two mil­lion copies, though it did not quite bring the critical succe!;>s of their self-titled debut. However, Jenkins admitted that "on 'Blue,' we succumbed to the studio maybe more than we should have," which perhaps indicates that the spontaneity of their debut was lost on this sophomore effort. 
After "Blue," the band decided to take some time off and take on some humani­tarian work. Shows were performed for 
"Be" has been his most successful project to date, achieving the No. 1 position on the Billboard 200 chart, and the No. 2 position on the R&B!Hip-Hop chart. 
His next most successful album, also his major label debut, was 2000's "Like Water for Chocolate" which reached No. 16 on the Billboard 200 chart and No. 5 on the R&B/Hip-Hop chart and was pro­duced by Roots' drummer ?uestlove. His 2002 "Electric Circus" proved to be a disappointment after Common experi­mented with new sounds that fans did­n't respond to. 
However, "Be" has proven to be his comeback. He strayed away from the rock experiments on his previous album and shifted to a more 70s soul and soul­jazz sound. He also went back to what he knew best -being a b-hoy. Kanye West's involvement in the project gar­nered Common even more interest and popularity. West is actually featured on the album, along with John Mayer, John Legend, Bilal and The Last Poets. 
Although looking bright right now, Common's career path has not come without controversy. Early on he was forced to change his moniker from Common Sense to Common after an L.A. 
the Tiger Woods Foundation and, after Jenkins' mother was diagnosed with breast cancer, the Breathe Benefit Concert in Los Angeles, an event organ­ized by Jenkins to bring attention to and funds for breast cancer research and treatment. 
Following this, Cadogan left the band and was replaced by Tony Fredianelli. As Cadogan was often a co-writer with Jenkins, this left a musical vacuum within the band that was hard to replace. 
This new lineup went back to the studio and the result was Third Eye Blind's third album, "Out of the Vein," was the poorest release of the three. It garnered little crit­ical praise and after some initial market accomplishments, it did not sell the num­bers that were typical of their earlier releases. 
Third Eye Blind is a band that lives on in the generation that grew up in the late 90s. "Semi-Charmed Life" will always be an anthem of younger, better days for those that remember it. However, the musical gods have not been kind to Third Eye Blind and there seems to be little chance for recovery in the future. 
It won't go down in history as a band to remember, but it will be one our genera­tion does. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
ska band with the same name sued him. 
A more threatening dispute came when Common released "I Used to Love H.E.R." in 1994. The song criticized the path hip-hop was taking by speaking out against the degradation of women in West Coast G-Funk rap, sparking a feud with rapper Ice Cube. The two eventual­ly resolved their conflict, but not before adding sparks to the East Coast-West Coast rap feud. 
Next on Common's agenda is further­ing his acting career -a move many rappers have taken in recent years (Ludacris, Mos Def, Ice Cube, etc.). He's slated to appear in "Smokin' Aces" star­ring Jeremy Piven and Ben Affleck, as well as "American Gangster" starring Russell Crowe, Denzel Washington and fellow rappers T.l. and RZA. Both movies are scheduled to be released in 2007. 
Whether his acting ventures are suc­cessful or not, Common will always have his music. His socially-conscious songs remain applicable day in and day out. Common brings legitimate issues to hip­hop music, and he'll certainly bring them to The Show. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, August 25, 2006 



MLB-NL 
Ohka leads Brewers with pitching, hitting 
because I figured he'd hit into a Hawpe's three-run homer in the
Cubs slug past Phillies; 
double play, so I was just actual­sixth. Pirates defeat Astros ly just hoping he would strike "It was my best day for my out there." swinging, but not for the pitch­Ohka, who has been tinkering ing," Ohka said. 
Associated Press 
with swinging left-handed in Fogg (9-8), pitching on seven 
MILWAUKEE -Torno Ohka batting practice, had a two-run days' rest, gave up eight runs, told Ned Yost he was planning to single in the third, a slow roller eight hits and two walks in 4 2-3 hit left-handed for the first time. on an 0-2 count that got past innings and hit two batters. 
"I thought, 'Man, as bad as shortstop "We need better performances your swinging, just do whatever Clint Barmes and put the than I gave," he said. you want,"' the Milwaukee man­Brewers ahead 7-0. Ohka added Bill Hall homered and Gabe ager said. "Four RBis later, he an RBI single to center in the Gross hit a two-run double as had a nice day." fifth for an 8-3 lead. Milwaukee took a 4-0 lead in 
Ohka drove in a career-high Hitting right-handed, Ohka is the second. Fielder homered in four runs and Prince Fielder hit a .130 batter in his career (30-the seventh against Manuel a three-run homer as for-230) with 11 RBis. He raised Corpas following pinch-hitter Milwaukee beat Colorado 12-6 his batting average on the sea­Brady Clark's RBI single. Thursday and extended the son from .087 to .160. Rockies' losing streak to six. "I just tried to hit it up the Cubs 11, Phlllles 2 
"It's just one game," Ohka middle," Ohka said. Aramis Ramirez wonders said. "But I'm going to keep Rockies manager Clint Hurdle what might have been if he had doing that." praised Ohka's effort to make gotten off to a better start, if 
Ohka (4-3), a right-handed himself more comfortable at the Derrek Lee had stayed healthy pitcher, drove in runs in his plate. and if Mark Prior and Kerry three plate appearances. After "Give him a little credit," Wood hadn't broken down. swinging for the fences on the Hurdle said. "He's doing it for a "It would be different," first pitch of his first at-bat and reason: He thinks he's better." Ramirez said. doing a pirouette, he hit the mitt Dating to his previous start, Ramirez homered and tripled, of catcher Danny Ardoin on his Ohka retired 21 straight batters and the Chicago Cubs hit four next swing, and Geoff Jenkins before Jamey Carroll's single homers a victory over the scored on the catcher's interfer­starting the fourth. Ohka wound Philadelphia that stopped the ence. up allowing six runs and seven Phillies' five-game winning when he was young. He didn't gave up three runs and seven 
"I was so glad he hit the hits in 5 1-3 innings. He gave up streak. control the strike zone very well, hits in 6 2-3 innings. catcher's glove his first time Todd Helton's two-run homer in Michael Barrett hit a two-run although Carlos does better than Mike Gonzalez worked the up," Yost said. "I was just hop­the fourth, Josh Fogg's RBI dou­homer, Angel Pagan added a Randy did at this age. Once he ninth for his 24th save in 24 ing that he wouldn't hit the ball ble in the fifth and Brad three-run drive, and Hamirez learns to command the strike opportunities. 
and Phil Nevin hit back-to-hack zone and cut down on walks, Chris Duffy had two hits and solo shots as the Cubs broke a there are a lot of things he's two runs scored and Ronny four-game losing streak and going to do in this game -no Paulino and Jose Castillo each avoided a four-game sweep. hitters, perfect games, Cy had two hits and an RBI for the Barrett went deep in the first, Youngs." Pirates, who used a four-run 
after Ramirez tripled in two Nevin also had good things to sixth inning to rally for the win. runs, to extend the lead to 4-1. say about Hamels, who had won After Maholm escaped a Chicago scored five more in the four of his previous five starts. three-walk first inning without third, with Pagan's homer mak­This time, he gave up a sea­allowing a run, the Astros took a 
ing it 9-1 and chasing starter son-high nine runs -five 3-0 lead in the third. Cole Hamels (6-7). Ramirez and earned -and nine hits, which Taveras led off with a bunt Nevin homered off Brian matched his season high, in single before Burke homered on Sanches in the fourth. two-plus innings. a 3-1 pitch. Two batters later, 
Carlos Zambrano (14-5) "He's one of the better young Craig Biggio drove in Luke Scott became the NL's first 14-game left-handed arms I've seen in a with a single. winner, allowing two runs and long time," Nevin said. Bay cut that lead to 3-1 when six hits in seven innings. He he had an RBI double off Wandy struck out seven and walked Pirates 5, Astros 3 Rodriguez (9-8) with two outs in one. The fading Houston Astros lost the fourth. 
"When you have that type of for the lOth time in 13 games, Taveras leaped against the command, you feel like Greg falling to Jason Bay and the wall and appeared to have the Maddux," a grinning Zambrano Pittsburgh Pirates on Thursday ball in his glove before it squirt­said, referring to the four-time night. ed out. NL Cy Young Award winner who Willy Taveras extended his The Pirates' sixth began when was traded to the Los Angeles club-record hitting streak to 27 Duffy singled, stole second and Dodgers on July 31. games with two hits and Chris scored on Freddy Sanchez's sin­
When Nevin looks at Burke hit his eighth home run gle. Zambrano, he sees a young for Houston, whieh is in fourth Three batters later and after Randy Johnson -with better place in the NL Central. Chad Qualls relieved Rodriguez, control. Paul Maholm worked his way Paulino chopped a single to left 
"If I were to pick one guy right through a shaky first three to score Sanchez, Jose Bautista's 
AP now to start my rotation, that innings to earn the victory for sacrifice fly drove in Bay and Brewers pitcher Torno Ohka hits an RBI single in the fifth inning would be my guy," Nevin said. Pittsburgh, which has won three Castillo followed with an RBI Thursday. Ohka drove in four runs in the Brewers' win. "He reminds you a lot of Randy straight games. Maholm (6-10) single. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 



WANTED 
ND family needs part-time nanny for toddler. Flexible schedule available. Please email neednanny05@ yahoo.com 
SOCCER REFEREES -needed for south side elementary school, 
located near Erskine Golf Course on Miami Street. $35.00 per soccer game. Call574-291-4200. 
Now hiring seasonal help. Halloween Express, 6502 Grape 
Road. 502-514-1409. 
FoR SALE 
2004 Mazda 3. 30+ MPG. 5-speed. Many safety & power options. 4 new tires. 47k mi. $12,500. 273-2792. 
Condo for sale 2 bdrm twnhse call 269-445-2765 

FoR RENT 
B&B lodging w/alum for ND football games. 574-243-2628 or gary­therese@yahoo.com 
2 rooms in private home w/sepa­rate entrance for football weekends. Shared bath. Close to ND. 57 4-259-8603. 
1-bdrm apt. $400 + uti!. Avail. Aug.30. 2 mi to ND, AC, security systems, free laundry, on bus route. No smoking, no pets, 10 month lease, deposit required. 574-289-9365. 
2-3-4 bdrms. Share w/FRIENDS. 50% off dep. if rented by 1 0/1 . 255­7000. 
B&B for football weekends. 1.5 mi to ND. Shuttle to/from games. Matt or Jess 574-287-0927. 
Lake home available for all 7 Notre Dame home football games; luxurious Eagle lakefront, sleeps 
10, 30 minutes from campus. $1500 per weekend or discount for booking all 7. Also available Dec.-April. 57 4-27 4-0089 
Rent a home ND football weekends. 57 4-784-8638. Immaculate furnished apartment sleeps 3-4, walk to stadium and/or shuttle. Also, parking for one motorhome hookup. $600/weekend. 
57 4-272-6377. 

1-bdrm apt. Quiet historic neighbor­hood. 1 mi. to ND. $500/mo. Call 574-283-0325. 
House for rent for ND football week­ends. 3 BR, 2 baths. Sleeps 6-8. Charming, private location. Oct. 20­22 weekend already booked. Special package rate for booking other six weekends. ND/SMC/HC alumnae preferred. Call Kay evenings at 269-663-8203. 
House in the Woods, furnished, 7 mi. to ND, 2 bdrm,2bath, garage, quiet, safe, only distractions: deer, firepit, creek for flyfishing, $675/mo utilities incl. Grad students only. szbarton@aol.com or 269-684-1199 or 574-210-7186. 


TICKETS 

ND vs Mich need 4 GAs together email davidrschulz@yahoo.com 
WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251­1570 FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232­0964 
Need 4 ND-PSU tix -75 alum seeks 4 for PSU game 9/9/06. Pis call714 523 0601 or email: aherenda@com­cast. net 
Need N D tix & parking pass all home games. 574-276-8507. 
A BUSINESSMAN PAYING TOP$$ FOR SEASON TIX OR INDIVIDUAL GAMES. CALL MARK 574-277­1659. 
AN ACTUAL ABOVE-AVERAGE ABIDING FAN DESPERATELY 
NEEDS FOOTBALL TIX. ANY OR ALL GAMES. LOCAL CALL 654­0169. 
6 Michigan tix avail for trade for 6 Penn St (only). Seats in 3 pr not together. Tix on campus for easy exchange. Call203-273-1463 or david.barnard@bernstein.com 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
www.ndqamedayroom.com 
And the light she hides is golden And I can't take my eyes away And I'm no longer welcome And this is not my place to stay 
Lefty and Emie, Neither can resist his charge: Eldrick "Tiger" Woods 
I thought that they were angels But to my surprise We climbed aboard their starship And headed for the SKIIIIIIIIIIIIIES 

Friday, August 25, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
• 






E BEE 




-

RY 
I 

R 
-


*WE'RE TALKING ABOUT NEWSPAPERS. HAVEN'T YOU HEARD OF PARIETALS YET? 
Meet editors from News, Sports, Viewpoint, Scene, Photo, Graphics, Ads & Business to find out what you could do for the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's daily. 
Please Join Us for 
The Observer Open House 
. 

Sunday, August 27 2:00p.m. -4:00p.m. Basement of South Dining Hall 
-

Food will be served. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, August 25, 2006 
MLB-AL 


Chicago stays in division race with win at Detroit 
Rangers edge D-Rays; Orioles fall to Twins 
Associated Press 

DETROIT -The Chicago White Sox could have left Detroit barely trailing in the AL Central or back in a huge hole. 
After losing the first two games of a four-game series, the World Series champions were pleased a split kept them in the division race. 
Jon Garland pitched a six-hit­ter and Jermaine Dye hit two homers to lift Chicago to a 10-0 win over the Tigers on Thursday. 
"This was huge," Garland acknowledged. "After losing the first two, we had to salvage these two. Now, we've still got a chance." 
Chicago trails Detroit by 5 1/2 games in the division and has a slim lead over Minnesota in the wild-card race. 
"I don't say that we're in big trouble if we lose today, but now we can go back to Chicago and take care of our business," man­ager Ozzie Guillen said. 
The White Sox head home for a three-game series against the dugout were booing and teasing him for not running," Leyland said. "That to me is not a fan." 
Garland said the 5-7-3 play was a sign of things going Chicago's way. 
"That's probably never hap­pened before," he said. 
Dye's homers -in the first and fifth innings -and Juan Uribe's all were two-out shots. 
"When you come into this town and split a four-game series, the way that team is going, it's satisfying," said Dye said, who finished 3-for-3 with a walk, a double, three RBls and four runs. 
Uribe's three-run homer in the fourth put the White Sox ahead 5-0 and Ozuna had three of Chicago's 14 hits. 
"That's the best lineup in baseball, even without Thome," Robertson said. 
Rangers 4, Devil Rays 3 

Robinson Tejeda won his sec­ond consecutive start since being called up from minor leagues and Carlos Lee hit a solo homer, helping the Texas Rangers beat the Tampa Bay Devil Rays Thursday night and avoid a four-game sweep. 
Tejeda (3-3) 
gave up two runs 
Twins, who likely and five hits in 7
"After losing the 
will not face desig­2-3 innings. He
first two, we had to
nated hitter Jim was recalled from Thome, who salvage these two. " Triple-A strained his left .Oklahoma on hamstring Saturday to make
Jon Garland
Wednesday night. a start that day
White Sox pitcher 
Detroit had a 10-and earned a spot 
game lead after play on Aug. 7, but the cushion has been cut almost in half after losing 11 of 16 games. 
"We'll find out if we're good enough," Tigers manager Jim Leyland said. 
Garland (15-4) struck out two and walked one in his fifth career shutout, his third against Detroit. His previous shutout was Sept. 4 last year against ­who else?-the Tigers. 
"That's as good a pitching game as we've had all year," Guillen said. "He did everything that a pitcher is supposed to do out there." 
Nate Robertson didn't. 

Robertson (11-10) gave up a career-high 10 runs and nine hits in 6 2-3 innings. He has lost four of five starts, though his previous four were solid. 
"He made a lot of bad pitches and every one of them went out of the ballpark," Leyland said. 
Chicago scored one run in both the first and third innings before turning the game into a rout with three in the fourth, two in the fifth and three more in the seventh. 
"They looked like they were having fun, and we looked tired," Leyland said. "When you have a real ugly game, it's usu­ally a combination of bad pitch­ing, hitting, managing and defense -we had all of that." 
Leyland was not upset with first baseman Sean Casey after a bizarre play in the fifth, but was disappointed with some fans' reaction and a reporter's question about it. 
Casey hit a liner to third base­man Joe Crede, then stopped running and pivoted toward home when it appeared the ball was caught before sprinting to avoid an embarrassing putout. Left fielder Pablo Ozuna charged and made a bouncing throw that just beat Casey. 
"The people behind the in the rotation 
after giving up 
one run over 6 2-3 innings in a 
3-1 win over Detroit. . Tejeda is 2-0 against the Devil 
Rays this season. He also beat 
Tampa Bay in his Texas' debut 
on May 2. 

Akinori Otsuka pitched the 
ninth and got his 27th save for 
the Rangers, who are seven 
games behind AL West-leading 
Oakland. Texas · hosts the 
Athletics in a three-game series 
beginning Friday night. 

Carl Crawford led off with a 
triple and scored on Greg 
Norton's sacrifice fly. Lee and 
Jorge Cantu singled with two 
outs before Russell Branyan 
struck out on a 3-2 pitch. 

Lee's homer was his third in 
109 at-bats with the Rangers. 
Acquired from Milwaukee on 
July 28 in a six-player deal, he 
had 28 homers in 388 at-bats 
with the Brewers. 

Tim Corcoran (4-6) allowed 
four runs and five hits in six 
innings. He is 0-6 over his last 
eight starts. 

Lee hit a two-out drive and 
Hank Blalock had an RBI double 
to put the Rangers ahead 2-0 in 
the first. 

Michael Young scored on 
Dioner Navarro's passed ball 
and Mark Teixeira had a sacri­
fice fly that extended the lead to 
4-0 during the third. 

Tejeda cruised through the 
first four innings, throwing 34 
pitches and allowing one hit. He 
gave up two runs in fifth on 
Travis Lee's RBI single and a 
sacrifice fly by Cantu. Center 
fielder Gary Matthews Jr. kept 
Cantu from getting an extra­
base hit by making a running 
catch on the warning track. 

Tejeda departed in the eighth after allowing a two-out double to Ben Zobrist and hitting Rocco Baldelli with a pitch. Wes Littleton ended the threat by inducing a grounder by B.J. Upton. 

Twins 11, Orioles 2 
Michael Cuddyer went 4-for-4 with four RBis, Joe Mauer had three hits and drove in four runs, and the Minnesota Twins cruised past the Baltimore Orioles on Thursday night. 
Justin Morneau and Torii Hunter homered for the Twins, who remained a half-game behind the Chicago White Sox in the AL wild-card race. Minnesota begins a three-game series against the White Sox on Friday in Chicago. 
Boof Bonser (3-4) was solid in his 11th big league start for Minnesota. The rookie right­hander took a four-hit shutout into the seventh. Although he didn't make it out of the inning, Bonser earned his first win in five starts since June 24. He gave up two runs, seven hits and a walk in 6 2-3 innings. He struck out four. 

It was the second straight night in which a Twins rookie pitcher shut down the Orioles. On Wednesday night, Matt Garza did not allow an earned run in six innings. 
Ramon Hernandez homered for Baltimore, his 16th of the season and first since June 28. Orioles starter Kris Benson (1 0­
10) gave up six runs and 10 hits in 3 2-3 innings. 
Three of the first four batters to face Benson got hits, staking Minnesota to a 2-0 lead. After Luis Castillo led off with a sin­gle, Mauer hit an RBI double and scored on a single by Cud dyer. 
The Twins made it 5-0 in the third. Nick Punto singled and scored on a double by Mauer. After Cuddyer hit a sacrifice fly, Morneau hit his 32nd homer. 
Castillo doubled and scored on a single by Mauer in the fourth, and Hunter led off the fifth with his 19th home run. The drive came off Bruce-Chen, who has allowed 26 homers in 12 starts and 20 relief appearances. 
Hernandez homered in the seventh off a tiring Bonser, who was pulled after allowing a two­out double to Brandon Fahey. 
Minnesota added four runs in the eighth. 

Have you thought about teaching Religion and becoming a Catechist? 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
Ifyou can answer YES to any or all ofthese questions~ come find out more about being a Religion Teacher. 
Important Information Meeting: Wednesday, .A:ugust 30, 2006 5:00-6:00p.m. Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center Call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163 
Friday, August 25, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
LITTLE LEAGUE WORLD SERIES 
Sato leads Japan past Saudi Arabia 

Pitcher strikes out 11, knocks in four runs 
Associated Press 
SOUTH WILLIAMSPORT, Pa. -A 5-foot-6 pitcher from Japan tormented the strap­ping Little Leaguers from Saudi Arabia on the mound and at the plate. 
Left-hander Ryoya Sato frustrated batters with his 
breaking ball and added a key two-run homer in the sixth inning Thursday as Kawaguchi City, Japan, defeated Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, 4-1 to advance at the Little League World Series. 
Sato also 
drove in two runs in the fourth with a single and homered to straightaway cen­ter to add a couple of insur­ance runs for Japan (4-0), which will face Mexico for the international title Saturday. 
The winner of that game 
plays in the World Series championship Sunday. 
"I was fortu­nate I was able to hit a curve ball at the right time," the 12­year-old said through an interpreter. 
Portsmouth, 
N.H. was 
'7 want to tell you guys that I have I I guys with the biggest hearts rve ever seen. 
James Durley Saudi coach 

scheduled to play Columbus, Ga., in a U.S. semifinal
Monday, October 28 7:00-S:OOpm 
Thursday night. Japan was bolstered by a
Sunday, September 3 -2:30-3:30pm 
cheering section that wore bright-red jackets and hats emblazoned with the
Japanese flag. Their rhythmic clapping resonated throughout
Contact:: Fr. John Conley 631-7888 
Lamade Stadium, and after 
or 

Sato struck out Michael 
John & Sylvia Dillon 631-7163 
Knight to end the game, fans exchanged high-fives and waved little flags. 
C-M 

"The Saudis were an excel­
Campn• Ministry 
lent team," manager Shigeru Hidaka said. "We were fortu­nate that Sato pitched so well." 
His pitcher needed to get through trouble late before celebrating. 
With Japan leading 2-0 in the fifth, Sato walked Knight, then hit Nate Barnett to put runners at first and second with two out. 
Matt Timoney followed and doubled to the left-field wall 
on a 2-2 pitch, 
scoring Knight. 

"I was fortunate I was able to hit a curve ball at the right time.,, 
Ryoya Sato Japanese pitcher 
Sato struck out Andrew Holden to end the rally. 
In the sixth, Sato retired the first two Dhahran bat­ters before 
pinch-hitter Robert Eyvazzadeh 
doubled to center. 
Jin Ohkuma booted Ted Fitzmaurice's chopper to third to put runners at the corners before Sato got Knight for his 11th strikeout. 
The 6-foot-3 Knight is tall for a 12-year-old, but he's not 
the biggest play­er on his team. 
That distinc­tion belongs to 13-year-old first baseman Aaron Durley, who at 6-foot-8 is the tallest partici­pant ever at the Little League World Series. 
Aaron's father, Dhahran man­
ager James Durley, is just as tall and his mother stands at just under six feet. 
Holden was one of Dhahran's offensive threats, homering twice in the series. 
Despite the loss, it was still a great tournament for Saudi Arabia (2-2), which went 0-3 at last year's series. 
Six players returned this year, including Aaron Durley. 
"I want to tell you guys that I have 11 guys with the biggest hearts I've ever seen," James Durley said. 


SATURDAY, AuousT 26TH SATURDAY, AuGUST 26TH vs. IowA STATE vs. BOWLING GREEN 1:00PM, ALUMNI FIELD 7:00PM, OYCE CENTER 



OUND THE NATION 
NSCAA/ adidas Men's Soccer Top25 
team  record  previous  
1  Maryland  19-4-2  1  
2  Connecticut  16·3·2  9  
3  New Mexico  18·2·3  2  
4  VIrginia  12·5·3  11  
5  North Carolina  17-4·3  7  
6  Clemson  15·6·3  3  
7  SMU  14..fi·3  3  
8  Creighton  15·5·3  6  
9  Akron  18-H  5  
10  UCLA  12-5·3  19  
11  California  14-4-3  8  
12  Indiana  13·3·6  17  
13  Penn State  13-7·2  10  
14  Duke  12·5·3  16  
15  NOTRE DAME  12~8-3  15  
16  Wake Forest  13-8-2  12  
17  St. John's  11..fi-5  13  
18  South Florida  13..fi-2  RV  
19  Cal State Northridge  15-4-3  13  
20  Santa Clara  13..fi-3  20  
21  UNC, Greensboro  16..fi·1  18  
22  uc Santa Barbara  13·5·3  23  
23  Old Dominion  15-4·2  21  
24  South Carolina  12+2  NR  
25  Washington  10·7-2  NR  

NSCAA/adidas Women's Soccer Top25 
team record previous 
1 Portland 23·0·2 1 2 UCtA 22-2·2 3 3 Penn State 23.0·2 2 4 North Carolina 23-1·1 5 5 NOTRE DAME 22~3-o 6 6 Florida Stale 20·4·1 4 7 Santa Clara 17-5·2 7 8 Virginia 18-6~1 8 9 Texas AIM 18-4·2 11 10 California 16·4·2 9 11 Boston College 13-6·2 10 12 Duke 14·6+ 16 13 Illinois 12·7-3 20 14 Tennessee 15·6·2 15 15 Cal Staw Fullerton 19·4·0 12 16 Connecticut 15·5·2 25 17 Arizona 11·8-3 17 18 West Virginia 12·6·3 19 19 Florida. 13-6·1 24 20 Pepperdine 15-4-3 18 21 Purdue 11-7·2 RV 22 Vanderbilt 17-3·3 NR 23 Yale 15-4·1 13 24 Wake forest 9·9-1 NR 25 Marquette 19-4·1 14 
2005 MIAA Soccer Final Standings 
team conf. ovr. 
1 Calvin 15·1·0 16-3-2 2 Hope 15·1·0 18-Z-1 3 SAINT MARY'S 10·5·1 11-7·1 4 Albion 9+0 9-9·0 5 Kalamazoo 8·8-0 9-9·1 6 Olivet 7-8·1 8·10·1 7 Alma 4·12·0 5~14·1 8 Adrian 3·13·0 3·17·0 9 Tri-State 0·16·0 3·17-0 
around the dial 
NFL 

Pittsburgh at Philadelphia, 8 p.m., ESPN Tamba Bay at Jacksonville, 8 p.m., CBS 
PGA 

Bridgestone Invitational, 2 p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS 

US Open Series , 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 


Associated Press 

SANTA CLARA, Calif. ­Jerry Riee spent some of his favorite days on the green praetiee fields next to the railroad tracks that run behind the San Francisco 49ers' training complex. 
That's where Rice honed his game over countless hours as he became the NFL's most prolific reeeiv­er -and that's why he felt those fields were an appropriate place to say his latest goodbye to the sport he revolutionized. 
Rice signed a one-day contract to retire with the San Francisco 49ers on Thursday, officially ending 
the receiver's matchless career back where it began. 
Hice, who scored more touchdowns than anyone in league history, shed no tears during a short sign­ing een~mony on the fields at the training complex opened in 1988 by the 49ers, his team for the first 16 of his 20 seasons. 
The receiver wore his ring from the 49ers' 1989 Super Bowl championship team on a chain around his neck as he hugged his wife, Jackie, and shook hands with San Francisco owner John York. 
"I would like to put the uniform on and run on that football field, but I think it's time to move on," Hice said, gesturing toward the fields where the current 49ers were practicing. "I feel welcome here. I feel like this is my home, and this is some­thing I'll never forget." 
Riee, who will turn 44 in October, hasn't played sinee parting ways with the Broncos before last season, holding his first retirement news confer­ence last September in Denver. He spent three seasons in Oakland after leaving the 49ers, then played a final year with the Seattle Seahawks. 
"He played with a burn­ing passion that the NFL had never seen before," York said. "It's great to see him back with the 49ers." 
Rice became a vagabond in his final years, still searching for another chance to prove he hadn't lost a step in his 40s. But San Franciseo fans still remember Rice in his incredible prime. when he made most of his 197 touchdown receptions while playing for several powerhouse teams and three Super Bowl winners. 
"This is where I got my start," Rice said. "This is where my legacy is at. This is where my heart got started, and this is where I'm going to end it." 
IN BRIEF 

Owens misses practice after 
reinjuring his hamstring 
IRVING, Texas -Terrell Owens missed practice again Thursday, vir· tually assuring he will miss his third straight preseason game for the Dallas Cowboys this weekend -and may not play until the regular-sea­son opener. 
Whatever Terrell Owens did for training didn't prevent him from pulling a hamstring. Owens' eom­ment that hfl was on the field too long running too many routes last week was a clear shot at coach Bill Parcells. What's that leave for Parcells? He can hold back playing time and a starting job if he doesn't see Owens on the field. Ah, the drama. 
Owens said Wednesday that he's not concerned about the possibility of not playing in the preseason. 
"I don't really have any doubts about if I'm going to perform or not," he said. 
Belle receives jail sentence 
for stalking his ex-girlfriend 
PHOENIX -Former major-league slugger Albert Belle was sentenced to 90 days in jail and five years' super­vised probation Thursday in a case in which he admitted stalking his for­mer girlfriend. 
Belle, 39, pleaded guilty in July to one felony stalking count. He was been arrested and charged in February, then arrested again May 17 at his Scottsdale home after he again contacted the victim. He has been jailed sinee the second arrest and reeeived eredit for time served only sinec he entered his plea. 
Belle's former girlfriend told poliee in January that she discovered a Global Positioning System tracking device that had fallen ofT her ear. She also said Belle had threatened her. 
A live-time All-Star outfielder, Belle hit 381 home runs in a 12-year career that began with the Cleveland Indians in 1989. 
After P.erfect group record,
US ready for kiiockout stage 
SAPPORO, Japan -Now comes the hard part. The U.S. dosed a perfect week of group play Thursday night by routing Senegal 103-58. But with more demanding games ahead, one stumble and this young but talented team will be out of the hunt for the country's first FIBA world ehampi­onship title since 1994. 
"We came over here to win the gold," eenter Dwight Howard said. "The first game is Sunday, and we can start off on the right note." 
The reward for winning Group D is substantial: The Americans won't have to face Argentina or Spain until the final. But there's a lot of basket­ball to be played before then. 
The U.S. faeed only one tough test in Group D -Wednesday's 94-85 vietory over Italy, which finished sec­ond. The competition will improve dramatieally, although some teams aren't familiar to the Americans. 

Friday, August 25, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
PGA 
Scott leads by two after first day at Bridges tone 
Woods, Donald shoot 67; Gore two behind 
Associated Press 
AKRON, Ohio -Adam Scott has played better than anyone else in his last two rounds. 
Now if he can just work on his timing. 
Four days after closing with a 67 for his best finish in a major, Scott made nine birdies over his last 12 holes Thursday for a 7-under 63, giving him a two­shot lead over Jason Gore and leaving him four shots clear of Tiger Woods in the Bridgestone Invitational. 
Scott made his charge too late Sunday at Medinah to have any shot in the PGA Championship, where he tied for third. 
Just his luck, they don't award the trophy on Thursday. 
But the 26-year-old Australian appears headed in that direction, especially the way he kept his tee shots in the short grass at Firestone South, which enabled him to fire at the flags. 

"That was my hope coming into this week, to keep playing like I did last week," Scott said. "I just tried to keep working on the same stuff and got it going a little today. I hit a lot of good iron shots and really took the pressure off my putting by hit­ting them so close." 
Gore, who got into this World Golf Championship by winning the 84 Lumber Classic last year, played with an old friend from his junior golf days in California -Woods -and set­tled in quickly with a birdie­eagle-birdie start. The highlight was a 4-wood that he aimed toward the center of the green on the par-5 second hole. He pulled it slightly left, and it wound up 2 feet from the hole. 
It was the first time Gore has played with Woods on the PGA Tour. 
"It's the first time I've played with him since he's been Tiger," Gore said. "Last time I played with him, he was still Eldrick." 
Woods didn't look nearly as sharp as he was four days ago at Medinah, where he captured his 12th career major with a five-shot victory. He traded birdies and bogeys until finish­ing strong with wedges into 8 feet at No. 16 and 12 feet on No. 18 for a 67. 
Lucas Glover checked in with a 66, freed from the pressure of his bid to make the Ryder Cup team. He was devastated when he wasn't a captain's pick Monday, blaming himself for his poor play this summer. But on his first trip to Firestone, he liked what he saw. 
"You could have a major here tomorrow," he said. 
This WGC event is for Ryder Cup and Presidents Cup play­ers, along with the top 50 in the world and select winners of tournaments around the world. So it was tough on players such as Glover and Davis Love III to not be part of the Ryder Cup conversation. 
"It felt horrible," Glover said of not being picked by captain Tom Lehman. "But I didn't deserve it. I'm going to ask Tom -not now, but later -what I need to improve on. But the pressure is gone right now. I'm very relaxed because I don't have to think about it." 
Love will not be playing on a 
U.S. cup team for the first time since 1991. He started strong for the second straight week, his momentum slowed on the 17th when he was stuck between a 7-iron and an 8-iron. He went with the 7-iron to a back flag and it hopped just over the green, leaving him a putt through the fringe to a green that ran quickly away from him. It led to bogey, but he still wound up with 6 7. 
"That's pretty much why I'm not on the Ryder Cup team," Love said. "I keep making little mistakes. I turned a 65 into a 67." 
Joining Love and Woods in the large group at 67 were Luke Donald, who played in the final group with Woods at Medinah last week; former U.S. Open champion Michael Campbell; David Toms, and David Howell of England. 
Masters champion Phil Mickelson tends to shut it down this time of the year, and it showed. A week after a spotty performance in the PGA Championship, Mickelson bogeyed four of the final six holes for a 74. 
Everyone was chasing Scott, who sure didn't look like any­thing special when he hit into the trees at No. 10 to start his round, had to chip back to the fairway and made bogey. Everything changed on the par­S 16th when he hit lob wedge into 5 feet, kicking off a string of birdies that shot him to the top of the leaderboard. 
He made three straight birdies from inside 2 feet, one of them a two-putt birdie at No. 2, and the only other blemish came at No. 4, when he left a 40-foot birdie putt some 5 feet short and to the left, and was furious when his par putt caught the right edge. 
"I could see I was swinging well, so I just had to be patient and wait for my chances," he said. 
Woods is the defending cham­pion and a four-time winner at Firestone, and he was pleased with birdies on two of the fmal three holes to at least stay in range of Scott. 

GET 
OTICED 
GET THE ALL NEW KATANA™ by Sanyo* 

0 Bluetooth" Plantronics Explorer'" 320 Bluetooth headset
$59·99 FR E E with any Bluetooth 
enabled phone. >Choose from three great colors 
Black, Blue Sapphire or Cherry Blossom Pink Offer ends 9/2/06. Requires purchase and activation of a Bluetooth capable phone on a S39.99 or higher service plan. > Ultra-thin design Valid only at participating Sprint retailers. 
> Built-in Bluetooth 
' 

> Built-in VGA camera 
You can also choose from > Sprint PCS Vision<~> enabled our great selection of 
> Large external display 

Sprint PCS Vision Phone KATANA'M by Sanyo~ After $170 instant savings and $50 After savings equal to the value of the phone. 
mail-in rebate. reg. $279.99 each. Requires in-store purchase and activation of a 
Requires in-store purchase and activation with a new line of service on $39.99 or higher service plan with a two-year subscriber new line of service on a 2-year agreement with Vision. 
agreement and Vision. 

Sprint· 
OPEN SUNDAYS! 

SP~IN1' STORE~ 
PREFERRED RETAilERS ALSO AVAILABlE AT 
NILES,MI
MISHAWAKA

SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA STORE HOURS 
Bask Communications
Sprint Store Express 
2010 S. 11th St.

Martin's Plaza Grape Rd. at Indian Ridge Sunday ..... 12pm-5pm 
University Park Mall 
269·357-0000

2035 South Bend Ave. South of the Mall across Mon.-Fri..... 10am-8pm 
6501 Grape Rd. 
574-277-4360

574-277-7727 from McDonald's Sat....•..... 9am-7pm 
574-243-2100 
CONVENIENT
Se habla Espanol 
SUNDAY HOURS 
**Rates exclude taxes & Sprint Fees (including USF charge of up to 2.67% that varies quarterly, cost recovery fees up to $2.83 per line, & state/local fees that vary by area). Sprint Fees are not taxes or government-required charges. Coverage not available everywhere. Available features & services will vary by phone/network. Nationwide Sprint PCS Networks reaches over 250 million people. Offers not avail­able in all markets. Additional terms & restrictions apply. Subject to credit. See store or Sprint.com details. Instant Savings: Taxes Excluded. Requires in-store purchase and acti­vation by 9/2/06. Savings cannot exceed total purchase price of phone(s). Business accounts excluded. Phones Subject to availability. Mail-in Rebate: Requires purchase & acti­vation by 9/2/06. Rebates cannot exceed purchase price. Taxes excluded. line must be active 30 consecutive days. Allow 8 to 12 weeks for rebate. Service Plans: $200 early ter­mination fee and up to a $36 activation fee apply to each line. A deposit may be required. Partial minutes are charged as full minutes. ©2006 Sprint Nextel. All rights reserved. Sprint and the "Going Forward" logo are trademarks of Sprint Nextel. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. 

Friday, August 25, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
)am/Pacific Coast Present 
SCJMMEil BALLPflilK TOCJil 
BOB 

DYI.fi" 
with JIMMIE VfiOCiHfllt and )OitiOR BROWit 
TOESDfiY SEPTEMBER 5 MEMORIAL STfiDIOM FORT WfiYitE, lltDiflltfl 
ttome of the Fort WGyne Wizards (only 90 minutes from rtD) 
TICKETS Olt SALE HOW fiT fiLL TICKETMfiSTER LOCfiTIOitS flltD 
www.tickdmaster.com 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame victorious in Europe 
Bass unbeaten on tour; Irish add new coach 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Sports Writer 
After much-needed rest fol­lowing their return from a European summer tour, the Irish hit the courts again Monday. 
The three-country, four-city tour concluded with a 9-2 victo­ry over the Fitzwilliam Lawn Tennis Club in downtown Dublin. 
The grass courts were just one of the different surfaces the players had to adjust to while playing in Europe. 
"On the clay courts in Austria, the guys had to be more patient," head coach Bobby Bayliss said. "In Ireland, we had to be more aggressive and play more up in the [grass] courts." 
The opportunity to play at Fitzwilliam's facility was large­ly made possible by senior Barry King, a Dublin native who was the 18-and-under Irish champion and is a mem­ber of the Fitzwilliam club. The team also got a special tour of Dublin from the local teams. 
"I treated it as more of an education, cultural experience than a tennis experience," Bayliss said. "We tried to make sure we saw everything of importance in cultural and his­torical value." 
Notre Dame took its first six matches against the Fitzwilliam club Aug. 18. Senior captain Stephen Bass concluded his unbeaten tour with a win over Yale's Rory Green 6-4, 1-6, 1-0 (1 0-7}. Bass also paired with sophomore Brett Helgeson at the No. 6 doubles spot and clinched another win for Notre Dame. 
"The match Stephen played against the Austrian team was a playing highlight," Bayliss said. 
Junior Sheeva Parbhu clinched a 7-5, 6-1 win in the No. 2 singles role. Helgeson and senior Vienna native Irackli Akhvlediani both won in the three and four singles posi­tions. 

King went undefeated on his native turf as he took No. 1 doubles with senior Ryan Keckley 6-0 and 6-3. King paired with Parbhu at the No. 4 people graduate and move on and you pick up the slack," Bayliss said. "We still have the nucleus of a strong team." 
Notre Dame also added a new 


assistant coach, 2000 Notre Dame graduate Ryan Sachire. Sachire left the ATP a year ago and became assis.tant coach at Baylor in the 2005-06 season. Sachire replaces Todd Doebler, who was named the head coach at Penn State July 27. 
Bayliss said he is very excited to have Sachire and doubles position to give the Irish a 7-6, (9-7), 6-3 victory. Fitzwillams saw a slight glimmer of hope when it took the No. 3 and No. 7 dou­bles matches. 

Notre Dame will look to carry its success on the European tour into the fall sea­son. 
The Irish lost two seniors but retained five of 
"On the clay courts in Austria, the guys had to be more patient. In Ireland, we had to be more aggressive and play more up in the [grass] courts." 
Bobby Bayliss Irish head coach 
their six returning starters. The Irish also have four new fresh­men -Sean Corrigan from Long Island, Daniel Schafer from Kentucky, Takshi Yoshii from Tokyo and Graham King, brother of senior Barry, from Dublin 
"That's a part of the process, 
OLIVIA 

tiEWTOrt·)OHH 
Friday October 20 8:30p.m. 
Morris Performing Arts Center South Bend. Indiana 
the new class as members of the Irish team. 
"Every year someone jumps out of the pack and surprises me," Bayliss said. "Hopefully it will be a pleasant surprise." 
Contact Deirdre Krasnla at dkrasnla@nd.edu 

NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS "W"ANTED BUYING & TRADING 
ALL SEASONS 
ALL GAMES & LOCATIONS 


THE BEACH 
BOYS 

Sunday "ovember 12 7:30p.m. 
Morris Performing flrts Center Soclth Bend, Indiana 
18 YEARS CONFIDENTIAL SERVICE 
CASH PAID TODAY 
Preferred Tickets 234-5650 

Tkkwts On Selle fit ttorrls Box Office, 
Sclper Sounds In Goshen Charge By PhoM SJitJUs-9'190 Or Onlln<l 


-.IIIOITismlter.org 
.--------------­
----~----~ ---~ 
page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, August 25, 2006 
midfielder Greg Dalby and senior midfielder Ian
Tourney 

Etherington, both of whom continued from page 28 were named to the preseason All-Big East team. Dalby, who Irish head coach Bobby has started every game since Clark is pleased the team is entering Notre Dame as a being challenged right away. freshman, was also named to "It takes things up a little the College Soccer News pre­
bit from our exhibition games and gives us a feel­ing of where we are and what we've got to do," he said. 
"It's also very important this early stage of the season to see where the team is both individually and collective­ly." 
Notre Dame returns nine of 11 starters from last year's team, but Clark cautioned that 

"As I always say to a team, just because they're a year older doesn't mean they're a year better. I do believe we have become quite a lot better because we've been working very hard, [and] we worked very hard the winter and spring." 
Bobby Clark Irish coach 
season All­America first team and to the 25-man list of players eligible to receive the Missouri Athletic Club Hermann Trophy, pre­sented annual­ly to the top men's soccer player in the country. 

"lie needs to do exactly what he did last year: be a good role model on the field and off 

Midfielder Nate Norman, now a senior, carries the ball down the 
field during a 1-0 win over St. Louis University on Sept. 11, 
2005. 

-
FRIDAY, AUGUST 25TH 

McGeeney. Andrew Quinn have split time there's two very good goal­
" W h e n in each of the keepers, we could even be in you've got a team's presea­a position where we could good senior "When you've got a son games. share the position a little bit group, they good senior group, they Clark, howev­more," he said. "It's a very know that this er, sees the nice position to have. No
know that this is their 
is their last team's goal­matter which one plays, I hurrah," Clark last hurrah. " keeper situa-think we'll be fine. I think said. "They've tion as a posi­they both deserve some time learned not to tive rather so I think we'll try and make
Bobby Clark 
let the pres­than a nega­that happen."
Irish coach 
the team must still perform on game days to be success­ful. 
"As I always say to a team, just because they're a year older doesn't mean they're a year better," he said. "I do believe we have become quite a lot better because we've been working very hard, [and] we worked very hard the winter and spring." 
The Irish are led this sea­son by senior captain and 

the field as he did last year," Clark said. "We don't noed anything more spocial [out of him]." 
Dalby should not feel pres­sure as the team's co-captain and star, Clark said. 
Dalby and Etherington will be joined by junior Joe Lapira, who led the Irish last season with seven goals and five assists, as well as by sen­ior defenseman Ryan Miller and senior forward Justin sure get to them, but they're usually very aware of what they want to do and this is there last chance to do it." 
The Irish also welcome a group of talented freshmen. Forward/midfielder Justin Morrow and Midfielder/defender Michael Thomas were both named to the College Soccer News list of "100 Freshmen to Watch," while forwards Tamba Samba and Dave Donohue have been impressive in Notre Dame's two preseason games. Samba scored the only goal in Notre Dame's 1-0 victory over Drake. 
"All four boys did well [in the preseason I." Clark said. "Obviously there's a strong group to break in in front of, but they give you that nice depth. They're usually very excited and that can bring a special dynamic to the team." 
Perhaps the biggest ques­tion mark for the Irish enter­ing the season will be at goalkeeper, where senior Chris Cahill and sophomore 

tive.  
"  W  h  e  n  Contact Eric Retter at  
you're in  a  position where  eretter@nd.edu  

DAYS/NIGHTS DELIVERY DRIVERS SANDWICH MAKERS 


54570 N. IRONWOOD DR. 
574.277.8500 JIMMYJOHNS.COM 


SuNDAY, AuGusT 27TH 


#12 INDIANA VS. #8 CREIGHTON .. 5:00PM #12 INDIANA vs. UAB .. 11:30PM # 15 NoTRE DAME vs. UAB , 7:00PM # 15 NoTRE DAME vs. #8 CREIGHTON , 2:00PM 
-----------------~---------------------------------------------------------------------., 
Friday, August 25, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
master of business administra­on the Jordan Hall of Science for professionals," Affleck­even when the team does not tion student aid; would minimize the amount of Graves said. "It is an issue, participate in a bowl," Jenkins
Fiesta 
+ $2.7 million in upgraded old equipment simply trans­and it has been an issue [with said in the letter. continued from page 28 equipment for the Jordan Hall ferred there from existing labs potential hires]." Affleck-Graves echoed those 
of Science; by allowing the University to He said this sentiments, in 1925, a 27-10 Rose Bowl + $2 million purchase new infusion of saying the victory over Stanford. toward need­materials for money into Fiesta Bowl 
The only money from the based finan­'The South Bend job the hall's labs. the program "Our athletic department surplus is on proceeds that went into the cial aid for market is not the most Affleck­would provide brings in revenues to give top of the athletic department this time, undergradu­Graves called more struc­average $4
attractive job market in back to the University. 
he said, were necessary costs ate students; the $1 million ture for million dollars
the world, especially for That is something that is 
the University encumbered by + $1.5 mil­on job place­school to help the athletic accepting the terms of a BCS lion for library professionals." ment services in job search­nearly unheard ofin department berth. Among the costs were purchases and for the spous­es. contributes to
higher education." 
travel costs for the team and needs; es of new In the letter the academic
John Affleck-Graves
band, hotel expenses and + $1 million hirees "impor­to faculty, institution
executive vice president
receptions for alumni at the to increase by tant" and Jenkins con­John Affleck-Graves every year. game required in the BCS con­10 University-"exciting." trasted how executive vice president "Our athlet­tract. endowed undergraduate sum­To attract the highest caliber Notre Dame's ic department 
After subtracting the $3.3 mer research slots; professors, he said, the athletic brings in rev­million in athletic department + and $1 million toward job University must try to help job department enues to give costs, the school awarded the placement services for the candidates in dual-income subsidizes its academic institu­back to the University," he following: spouses of new hirees. families find opportunities for tions with the way other said. 
+ $3 million toward post­Affleck-Graves said those the non-professor spouse. schools use their "general "That is something that is graduate student financial aid, five projects received the extra That, he said, can be tough at operating budget" to help fund nearly unheard of in higher including $2 million for gradu­money because they are times. athletics. education." ate student financial aid among the most important and "The South Bend market is "Our athletic department endowment and $500,000 each exciting projects on campus. not the most attractive job provides significant resources Contact Ken Fowler at for architecture graduate and He said the $2.7 million spent market in the world, especially for the academy every year, kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

DearNotreDame Students: Sometimes, socialresponsibility comesbyway ofatomato. 
Your ongoing supportfor the Coalition ofImmokaleeWorkers (CIW) led to Taco BelL signing on to be the first in the restaurant/supermarket industryto lend support to the CIWandhelp improvelowwages andpoorworldng conditions for Florida's tomato farm workers. 
By paying apenny moreperpoundfor Florida-grown tomatoes, andpurchasing tomatoes from farmers whopass this penny on directly to Florida's tomato farm workers, thewages and way oflife for these dedicatedworkerswill dramaticallyimprove. 
Taco Bell is alsojoining the CIWin asldng for industry-wide support ofthese efforts sincewe're actually the smallestpurchaser ofFloridatomatoes among all the m~or companies,purchasing10 millionpounds in 2004 for less than1% ofthe state's total tomato production. 
Additionally, Taco Bellhas modifiedits Supplier Code of Conduct andis assisting the CIW in developing legislative strategy to create newlaws that will benefit all Floridatomato farm workers andfarms. 
At TacoBellwe understand that from thefield to the table, "human rights are universal" andwe encourage ourindustry and communities tojoinus in these important efforts. 
Thankyou, 
TerryHaseman RLC Enterprises,Inc., TacoBellFranchisee 
©2006 TACO BEll CORP. 4652-6 


page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, August 25, 2006 
few weeks you'd like to see one separate."
Soccer 

With so many injuries, young continued from page 28 players have been forced into 
starting spots, especially at out of this weekend's contests defense, where Dew, Lorenzen due to pulled leg muscles. and Inglis will all be signifi­
"[Their injuries are] just lit­cant contributors when they tle pulls, but they're nagging return. enough that they're going to Waldrum said his back wall be very limited this weekend," for this weekend will likely 
Waldrum  feature junior  
said of Lorenzen  "It's time for those kids to  Ashley Jones and senior  
and Hanks. "We can't risk them  step up and hopefully do that job for us. It certainly  Christie Shaner along with two  
with  Santa  gives them an opportunity  freshmen  
Clara and USC coming in next  to show us that they should be playing more. ,,  Amanda Clark and Haley Ford.  
week."  Clark  and  
Also  out  Randy Waldrum  Ford's  only  
for the Irish  Irish coach  collegiate  
are  sopho­ experience has  
m  o  r  e  been in Notre  

defender Kerry Inglis, who had Dame's two exhibition games foot surgery and will miss the -a 3-0 win over Virginia Aug. next few weeks, freshman 16 and a 5-0 win over Xavier midfielder Courtney Rosen and Aug.17. senior goalkeeper Nikki Waldrum said the upside to Westfall. young players being thrown in 
Westfall was supposed to so quickly is they will provide complete for the starting experienced depth when the goalie position left vacant by upperclassmen return. four-year starter Erika Bohn, "It's time for those kids to but with her sidelined the job step up and hopefully do that has come down to junior job for us," Waldrum said. "It Lauren Karas and freshman certainly gives them an oppor­Kelsey Lysander. tunity to show us that they 
Waldrum said Karas and should be playing more." Lysander will both see signifi­Iowa State, who will also be cant playing time against the playing its first game Saturday, Cyclones and Rebels. went 11-7-3 last year-the 
"We're waiting to see team's best record in four whether one of those two com­years under coach Rebecca pletely separates from the Hornbacher. The Cyclones' 6­other," Waldrum said. "It's 3-1 conference record was great that the competition's good enough to earn them a close, but at the same time, tie for second in the Big 12 after we've been going for a and the school's first-ever NCAA tournament berth. 

Ole Miss, who opens its sea­son with Sunday's game against the Irish, finished last season 14-5-2, losing to Pepperdine 1-0 in the first round of the NCMs. 
Notes: 
+ This weekend marks the only time during the regular season that the Irish will com­pete in back-to-back days. Waldrum said the scheduling is worrisome given the number of the Notre Dame injuries and the potential for hot, muggy weather in Oxford. 
''I'm really, really concerned about (playing on back to back daysl," he said. "It's difficult. We have to play Saturday and then turn around and fly to Mississippi where it's going to be about 100 degrees."
+ The Iowa State game will kick off at 1 p.m. Saturday at Alumni Field. The Ole Miss game in Oxford will begin at noon. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 



Friday, August 25, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
ALEC WHITE

JOCULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM

CROISSANTWORLD 
l'r-\ E'1<01E-t>lo 5E.E. \-\~'!, \NI··H>.t'~ ut:> \ 1M ~RR'\. I HAVE. 
\f'.II-\.P>I \1--\~ I'VE. BEEN 1-\l!<f;.l> S'j A. <AR LOAN To AT:>t'llNISII<-~\\ON -ft-\E. UNI\IE.RS\1\j 1b l'A'\ OY-F. 1 NE-E!) HAS lN 5\oR~ \E;.U.. 'iCl...A 11-\P;\ oFf' "'\1--\t. CAS\-\' FOR..IHIS 'JE-11-R. CAK!'US PI\R:r\E.S 'lo KEEl> u.s f!<DI-'\ ARE WAC.\(1 , ANt> 
-CAt-~fUS Pt-.1({\t.S SIA'jiNq ON C-AMI'IrlS ~&R'2. ~~'SAFE. At--lD wARM 1<£. '::D cu-r , OF S\ul-\"'(' ... l CAN! 6££ \\ At-!'jM<lR.E. 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 40 Moving, after 69 "Don't I know "on" you from
1 Bats somewhere?,"
42 "Alphabetic"5 Word to a pest e.g.

girl's name

10 Wing, in a way 43 Volatile solvent 70 1993 Aerosmith 
14 Maintain hit with the lyric45 A billionaire 
15 Personal guide "Love is sweet
might live in it 

misery" 47Thick-_ 
16 Field measure 
17 "Shoot!" 71 Battle of 49 Delicate subject 
18 Brahman, e.g. 50 Successor org. 
19 Word with slip DOWN
to the U.S.S.R. 

or slide 1 Put on51 Poke20 Graybeard 2 Like many a53 Work like22 Certain clothes basketRembrandt, athammers times 3 Stuffed with 24 Utah city 
ham and 26 Bizet priestess cheese and 55 Shooting pain 
59 Monteverdi

27 King Fahd _ then sauteed
opera character Abdul Aziz 4 Manager's boss62 Food with gravy29 Amount from a 5 U.Va. or M.I.T.

63 Prudential competitor ,. 6 Sleeping place 
tube 
31 Show signs of a cold 65 Pat on the 7 Kidney-related buns?
35 Pretax amount 8Mixes up 66 56, say
38 Show defiance 9 2001 hit movie 67 Smart musical
39 Leslie Caron 32 National symbol 37 "Seinfeld" uncle 56 ''The Time musical ss _speed 10 Grimace hinted at by the 41 Transcript fig. Machine" people ends of 3-, 25­
11 Spots before 44 Teatro Scala 57 Knowing,ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE and 9-Down (in
the eyes? 46 Mother of Apollo slangily
order) 48 Turn of the 58 One side of a
12 Monopoly token 33 Susan on the 
page? debate
13 "How 'bout small screen 
them ?" 52 Waggish so Architect (class~ 34 Sporting gear 54 "A Beautiful Saarinen conversation Mind" star, 2001 61 "My bad!" 
with bell guards segue) 
36 Top part 55 Chemist's salt 64 Writer Rand -F+i+.:+:-l 21 Completely fix 
..;;.+.,:..+;;+;..;.~ 23 Ballet bend 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
~~~~·· 25 Longtime NBC
~-:-t-:-:trl'!!' .iii sitcom star Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
*:+.:i-tlil.....::-l!l!lt-:+.~ir:::+:-+*l 27 Puerto Rico y Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
Mallo rca past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
28 Riviera, e.g. 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young *;;::-t-;;+:-+.::-i 30 "Phooey!" solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name Address ____________________________________ City ________ State _____ Zip______ 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

J]~~JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
BEPOR 

rJ 

1 
@2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~IftJ 
tBULJEM j 
WHAT THE DRIVERS

J r
1 
DID IN THE DEMO­
www.jumble.com 
L-ITION DERBY. 


I GOBUTHj 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

rix 
1 1 suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: 

A ·1 I I I J-ITJ" rI 1 J 
(Answers tomorrow) Thursday's I Jumbles: BASSO TRAIT INCOME ADAGIO Answer: The exotic dancer quit because her paycheck was -TOO "MODEST' 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Rupert Grint, 18; Dave Chappelle, 33; Mar lee Matlin, 41; Steve Guttenberg, 48 
Happy Birthday: You will be tempted to take a leap of faith this year but that may end up costing you. Be fully prepared and know what you are getting into. Follow your intuition. Your numbers are 1, 7, 12, 22, 39, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You'll be tom between doing things the easy way and putting an all-out effort into something worthwhile. Don't let your laziness lead you to neglect your responsibilities. 3 stars 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Networking will pay off. Take a fun approach to what you do and you will seal any deal you've been trying to get off the ground. Don't let children or other people you are responsible for stop you from taking care of business. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You have a strong hold on the outcome of anything you get involved in today. You can make changes at home with the help of neighbors and friends. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Make a professional change or sign up for a course that will influence the way you make money today. Your enthusiasm will allow you to get the full benefit of what someone else is trying to teach you. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Everyone will be looking to you for advice and direction. The way you handle the people around you will determine how far you will get in the future •• with those you work with as well as those you play with. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't be upset if you can't get a straight answer. Figure things out for yourself today. Someone you have to <leal with will be a waste of your time. 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You've got everyone's attention so do your thing. You will be able to make headway, change opinions and make reforms. Your involvement with others will make you realize what you can do to get ahead. 4 slars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Be careful how you handle others. Just when you think you have a deal in the bag, you will discover that someone has thrown a wrench in your plans. Overindulgence will hold you back. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't trust anyone else with your ideas or your ­cash. You will be subject to mistreatment if you travel to unsafe places. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Regardless of what others think, follow through with what you know you must do. Let others do their own thing. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your innovative ways and ability to adapt to whatever comes your way will help you do what's right. Even if you don't like the initial outcome, it will tum out to be in your favor. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll be explosive, dynamic and will get a lot done today. If you are too harsh in handling others, you can also expect a backlash. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: In some ways you are practical and in others you are not. You tend to change your mind a lot but are disciplined, articulate and intelligent. That usually helps you win out in the end. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

--------------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, August 25, 2006 
page 28 
FOOTBALL 

Fiesta Bowl funds go to academic priorities 
eating that the win earned the In a letter sent to faculty last after the school closed its "Everybody should recognizeBy KEN FOWLER school $14.5 million in Bowl week, University President books for the fiscal year. He the role that athletics plays in 
Sports Editor 

Championship Series (BCS) Father John Jenkins said Notre Dame's standard our community." 
revenues. announced the breakdown of procedure is to reinvest all the He said the athletic depart­
With Irish quarterback But it took until after the allocati9ns from that surplus. money profited from the bowl ment has now subsidized the Brady Quinn celebrating on University's fiscal year ended Executive Vice President appearance into academic university's general fund with the field, ABC's production June 30 to decide how the John Af'fleck-Graves said pursuits. more than $80 million in bowl team flashed a graphic on the money made from the team's Thursday Jenkins and "Whenever we go to a major proceeds since Notre Dame's television screen after Notre Fiesta Bowl appearance would University Provost Thomas bowl game like this, we are first post-season appearance Dame's 38-31 victory over be spent -on books, not foot­Burish began discussing the usually going to have a sur­Stanford last November, indi-balls. allocation of the proceeds plus," Affleck-Graves said. see FIESTA/page 25 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Strained at the start 
Despite four key injuries, the Irish have a positive outlook as they begin the 2006 season 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
The season hasn't started yet, but Notre Dame has already been bitten by the injury bug. 
Already missing sophomores Carrie Dew and Brittany Bock, who are in Moscow competing in the U-20 World Championships, No.5 Notre Dame will be without two other starters and several other players as it opens the regular season Saturday against Iowa State at Alumni Field before traveling to Oxford, Miss. to play No. 24 Ole Miss Sunday. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum said senior defender Kim Lorenzen and sophomore for' ward Kerri Hanks will be held 

see SOCCER/page 24 Dame forward tallied one assist against the Huskies. 

MEN's SoccER 
Irish host season's first game 
By ERIC RETTER Associate Sports Editor 
The Sweet 16 is in the past, and Notre Dame is firmly grounded in the present. 
Tonight, the Irish kick off the fifth annual Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament, and the team is focused on this season, hop­ing that the offseason work pays off into an even deeper tournament run. 
The team will play UAB at 
7:30 p.m. tonight before fac­ing No. 8 Creighton at 2 p.m. Sunday. No. 12 Indiana will also compete in the tourna­ment. 
see TOURNEY/page 24 


FooTBALL 

Lineman's father passes; squad n1ourns for Morton family 
ished our scrimmage Friday night," and spent a lot of quality time with By BOBBY GRIFFIN Weis said. "So he's going to go home my dad." Sports Writer Saturday and come back Tuesday Morton remained positive after 
because the service is on Monday." Weis introduced him to the media 
Notre Dame offensive guard Bob Hobert Morton began experiencing Thursday despite how quickly his Morton, an integral part of an Irish stomach pains one month ago and father's illness progressed. He offensive line that returns fpur was initially informed he had acid thanked his friends, family, team­starters from last season, will not be reflux and indigestion. It was not until mates and Weis for their support and with the team Saturday through his medications failed and he God for not letting his father suffer Tuesday when he travels home for his returned to the doetor that he learned for a long time. father's funeral in Texas. it was cancer. "My faith in Christ continues to give 
Robert Morton, who played college Bob Morton was able to visit his me hope," Morton said. "Hope that football at Rutgers, died Tuesday of father before his death, one week my father is no longer in pain, which I stomach cancer at 55. Irish head before the start of training eamp. The know. Hope that there is a meaning to coach Charlie Weis said the offensive offensive lineman was unsure of his everything that he went through. And lineman decided to wait until after father's outlook, but knew the disease hope that there is meaning in every today's scrimmage to return to his was in its late stages after the cancer step I take. home in McKinney, Texas. had spread from the stomach into the "So that word right there -hope -
Weis spoke about Bob Morton Sr.'s lymphatic system and lungs. is the biggest thing I continue to death for the first time in his post­"Coach Weis blessed me with the derive from that." practice interview Thursday. opportunity to fly home and see my 
"He had told his mom that he could family," Bob Morton said after prac­Contact Bobby Griffin at not go home until after we had fin-tice Thursday. "I was able to fly home rgriffi3@nd.edu 

PGA 
MlB-Al
ND VOllEYBAll 
MlB -Nl

MEN'S TENNIS 
llWS 
w 

Japan 4 
Milwaukee 12

u Irish return from 
Bowlin~ Green at 

Chicano 10 
Saudi Arabia 1 
Detro• 0 · 
Colorado 6 

z Europe victorious 
Notre arne 
Adam Scott leads the
:3 
Bridgestone Invitational 
Tonight, 7 p.m. 

Pitcher Ryoya Sato's 
Jon Garland had his 
Torno Ohka and first

The team was able to
c:s 
after shooting a first-
The Irish take on the 

efforts led Japan to the 
fifth complete-game 
baseman Prince Fielder

enjoy tennis as well as 
day score of 63. 

International final of the 
shutout and Jermaine 
combined for six RBis in
Falcons tonight at the

the cultural side of a
!i Dye homered twice in a 
the win for Milwaukee. 

Little League World
tour of Europe. 
Joyce Center. 

win over the Tigers. 
Series. 
page 21 
page 18
page 22 

page 19 
page 16

page 23 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, August 25, 2006 
Some things are surefire, but the unknowns matter 
Brady Quinn will have more interview requests than touch­down passes. 
Tim McCarthy will appear at the end of the third quarter. 
Tom Zbikowski will scare people. 
Those are just a few simple, bor­ing facts about the upcoming season. 
It's the 
unknowns Sports Writer that should make 2006 entertaining ... 
+ Will Mike Richardson and Ambrose Wooden keep their jobs? A touted tandem of recruits entered the secondary battle this summer when Darrin Walls and Raeshon McNeil arrived on campus. Weis insists that the best play­ers will play. 
Richardson's seniority and Wooden's athleticism should keep them in the starting line­up. The best part is the push the two frosh will give the vet­erans in practice -a little competition always leads to improvement.
+ Will Ronald Talley utilize the double teams faced by Victor Abiamiri and disrupt his side of the line of scrimmage? 
Abiamiri has the recognition that goes along with being a Parade High School All­American and having the name 'Victor'. But outside of his Alley in Alumni Hall, Talley is known only as No. 99 to opposing offenses. He needs to push the line of scrimmage backward and force teams to commit two blockers to him ­just like Abiamiri. 

+ 
Can Travis Thomas lead the defense like Brandon Hoyte did a season ago? The Notre Dame defense surren­dered many more yards than it wanted to in 2005, but it was­n't for lack of toughness from the captain lloyte and team­mate Corey Mays. 

With those two gone, Thomas will need to direct a unit that gave up 617 yards in the Fiesta Bowl -a game in which Thomas suited up at running back. 

+ 
Can Rhema McKnight return to form? The smart, speedy receiver hasn't played in a game since last September's Michigan contest. It should take him a week or two to shake off some rust, but he has the hands to be as reli­able as Samardzija. 


McKnight had only two games last season under Weis. If he stays healthy, there won't be a secondary in the nation that can shut down McKnight, Samardzija and Quinn. 
+ How will experience affect the kickoff returners? David Grimes and George West have 26 minutes of playing time between the two of them. Grimes showed he had talent in several returns last season, but will their youth hurt them when the lights -and pressure -turn on at Georgia Tech. 
+ Can Weis control Irish egos? 
A summer spnnt soaking up applause from Wrigley Field to Madison Square Garden means No. 83, No. 10 and No. 9 jer­seys are flying ofT the racks in the Bookstorn. 
But does all the attention {Teate focused athletes? 
Weis' biggest challengn is knnping Samardzija, Quinn and Zbikowski from believing their prnss clippings. 
Quinn should havn no prob­lem. llis golden Sports Illustrated cover doesn't sur­prise him -any successful Notre Dame quarterback will rcceivn loads of media atten­tion. 
And aftnr getting pounded by everyonn from Purdue to Pittsburgh during thn Willingham era, Quinn is too sick of losing to let it happen. 
For Notre Dame to survive a Yellow Jacket-Nittany Lion­Wolverine-Spartan September, Samardzija and Zbikowski must turn belief in their own abilities into belief in the team. 
They handled last season's relatively mild attention with class. 
Now that they're arguably the two biggest celebrities in college football, they will need Weis more than ever to keep them grounded. 
Will Notre Dame win its 12th national championship? Vegas says it's a safe bet. But for every pre-season magazine that has high expectations for the Irish, there is a reason to think they will fall short. 


That doesn't phase Weis. Nine and three wasn't good enough for him last season. 
Twelve and one won't do this year. 
The opinions in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd. edu 


o.,fenslve Starters and Backqps 
RC.·Richardson Lambert or McNeil 
WLB~T. Thomas 

ROE-Talley  Brockington  
Frome  fS..Ndukwe  
1\DT-Landri  McCarthy or Bruton  
Kuntz  

MLB-Crum  
LOT-lawt  T.Smith  
Leitko  
LDE-Abiamlrl  ss..ZbtkowJ~  
Ryan or J. Brown  Herrin&  
SL8-M.Thomu  
Vcrnaafia  
Ja.nsen  Grime• Renke•  
 
Dunc;an  Grimes  West  Burkhart  
West  
e  eK  LC:"Wooden  
Price  Gloll  Wall•  
Renkea  Burkhart  

--------------------------. 
Friday, August 25, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Weis goes beyond mere fundamentals in year two 
Freshmen take lessons from veterans on Irish squad with high hopes 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
With some players fresh out of high school and one con­tending for the Reisman, there is quite a range of ability on the practice field. 
But Irish coach Charlie Weis hasn't let anyone off easy. 
Although returning players have become more comfort­able in Weis' high-powered offense, the defense is chang­ing as well -adding Travis Thomas as a linebacker and featuring a slimmed-down Chinedum Ndukwe at safety. 
Returning players going beyond last year 
Although most of the person­nel is the same, fall camp had a different feel than last year. 
"I think [the players] were more ready for camp," Weis said. "There are fewer surpris­es for them. They know what's going to get me mad." 
"Every one of the guys who was here involved last year is now moved past a stage where the first thing they have to do is learn what to do," Weis said. "Now they can actually work on doing it better." 
And doing it better without having to think of how to do it. 
"If a receiver knows what route to run, now he's not thinking 'how do I run this 
route,' now he's thinking said at Media Day in August. about how to run the route, "That is why I play this game. not what route to run," Weis As a running back, you would 
s  a  i  d  attempt  to  
"They're on a higher level."  "First ofall it comes down to fundamentally and  avoid contact, but I don't mind it per­ 
Along with increasing the comfort level within  technically sound skills that they have to work on, that they have to show that  sonally. I just love the game." To Weis,  
the offense, Weis offered practical sug­gestions to  they're capable ofdoing. Because until they show what they're capable of  Thomas' defensive background from high  
the team. Last year, he recom­ doing, we can't put them on the field."  school as well as his talent for tackling  
mended that  -as demon­ 
former-Irish  Charlie Weis  strated  on  
wide receiver  Irish coach  special teams  

Maurice Stovall trim down, and the results were clear. In 2005, Stovall caught 69 passes for 1,149 yards and 11 touchdowns, capping his season with a selection by Tampa Bay in the third round of April's NFL Draft. 
Ndukwe is hoping for compa­rable results on the other side of the ball. 
With his job in the secondary secure, the free safety lost near­ly 20 pounds over the offseason, Weight loss can help with the most basic concerns of a football player -trimming down can mean more speed, more effi­ciency and more playing time. 
Travis Thomas backed up run­ning back Darius Walker in 2005, but is projected to start at weakside linebacker this season. 
The position change could be a natural fit for Thomas. "I definitely like to hit," he 
-convinced 

him that Thomas could see success on both sides of the ball. 
Freshmen adjust to college game 
Freshman kicker Ryan Burkhart said the challenges in adjusting to college football are anything but basic. 
"It's a growing process," he said. "It's a different level than high school." 
But with the graduation of last year's kicker/punter D.J. Fitzpatrick, Burkhart might fmd himself in the spotlight quickly. He is currently second on the depth chart and is one poor per­formance away from starting. 
"[Playing for Notre Dame] is a dream and you're just trying to earn the respect of your team­mates -just accomplish your goals and try to get some play­ing time," he said. 

Freshman quarterback Demetrius Jones understands the difference between playing for Notre Dame and his Chicago high school. But some things in football remain the same at all levels. 
"I've been playing football pretty much all my life so it's not really that much different ... how can I put this -the aroma of the team -everybody wants to get better, everybody wants to work hard," he said. "And we all share the same common goals." 
Weis has high expectations for his highly touted freshmen, but recognizes that the fine-tuning of college football could take time. 
"First of all it comes down to fundamentally and technically sound skills that they have to work on, that they have to show that they're capable of doing," Weis said. "Because until they show what they're capable of doing, we can't put them on the field." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
-

2006 Season Predictions 

Ken Fowler Sports Editor 
ND Prediction: 
12-1 
Bowl Win, National Championship 


If Darius Walker can continue to pick up the blitz like he has in the past, Notre Dame will have a season to remember. Protecting Brady Quinn will be at a premium this season, as Irish hopes rest on the right arm ofthe Dublin, Ohio, product. 
Quinn delivered unprecedented success in 2005, throwing 32 touchdown passes to just seven interceptions, and coach Charlie Weis thinks he can be even better this year. If he is -and that depends heavily on the pass protection against hungry lineback­ers his running backs provide -the Irish should tear through the weak secondary of Georgia Tech and the untested Penn State defensive backs. 
Michigan will be the trap game for the Irish, coming off an emotional win in the home opener. The Wolverines can pull off an upset win unless Quinn leads the Irish on a late-game drive to seal an emotional victory. But that's no given. 
After taking care of the rest of their schedule, including a fulfill­ing win over USC, the Irish will meet Ohio State in the title game. With a solid victory in Arizona over the unbeaten Buckeyes, the 2006 team will capture the program's 12th championship. 
Anything less than a national championship is a disappoint­ment at Notre Dame, and that's the way it should be. But it's not going to happen this year. 
The Irish will cruise in Atlanta and dominate every aspect of the Penn State game. But Michigan has been waiting for Notre Dame's clay feet to hit the ground, and will seize the opportunity for payback this year. Notre Dame will recover and finish the season on a high note with a win in the Coliseum. With this year's wide-open title race, that should guarantee the Irish a chance to compete for the big prize. But again, Notre Dame will fall short in the Arizona desert, this time to LSU. 
This Irish team has seasoned veterans on both sides of the ball. Rhema McKnight will make Brady Quinn look like a new quarterback all over again, and the pass rush will be one of the nation's most formidable. The secondary could turn into a strength and the offensive line is an anchor. 
In a perfect world, Notre Dame could get every bounce this year. But that regular-season loss will rankle even the staunchest fans. And a team traditionally over-matched in bowl games won't find an easy route to the crystal trophy this year. A title could happen for Notre Dame. But not in January. 
The Irish have become the trendy pick this season after grazing numerous offseason magazine covers, to the point where even ESPN commentator Mark May has one foot on the South Bend bandwagon. 
But hype means nothing if a team cannot execute on the field and this year's Irish seem to be well adjused enough to handle the pressure. 
Provided Notre Dame can get through it's first four games, it could cruise into the Coliseum where head coach Charlie Weis will remind USC head coach Pete Carroll of their old NFL pecking order. 
An undefeated West Virginia squad, led by one of the most underrated coaches in the country (Rich Rodriguez), will prove to be a tough opponent. 
But what better to mark Notre Dame's first title since '88 than by beating the same team. And in the process, Weis will do something that not even Rockne, Leahy, Parsegian or Holtz could accomplish -win the national title in only his second year as head coach. 
After spending most of its summer vacation in South Bend, Notre Dame can make plans for a New Year's matchup with a few Gators in Arizona. 
And unlike last season's fiasco against Ohio State, this year's desert trip will be sunny. 
As expected, Brady Quinn will win the Reisman Trophy by throwing touchdowns to Jeff Samardzija behind a veteran offen­sive line. 
Travis Thomas' move to linebacker will add much-needed ath­leticism to the defense and won't take too much away from the running game, as Darius Walker can carry the load 
Still, Quinn won't take the Irish to their 12th national title with­out help from the defense, where the most important player is on the sidelines. Bill Lewis, one of the best defensive backs coaches in the country, will prove that cornerbacks Mike Richardson and Ambrose Wooden are tougher than the stat sheet shows -and the secondary's numbers will improve. 
These factors, and a few fortunate breaks, mean Notre Dame beats Chris Leak and Florida for its first national championship since 1988. 
Maybe then Urban Meyer will realize that winning is still possi­ble under the Dome. 

-
Bobby Griffin Sports Writer 
ND Prediction: 
13-0 
-
... 
Bowl Win, National Championship 

Mike Gilloon Sports Writer 
-
ND Prediction: 
13-0 
Bowl Win, National Championship 

-----------------------------, 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, August 25, 2006 
Three simple, shorter steps work for Price 
Senior worked on consistency, power over summer preparing, to take lead role in crucial punting game 
back like a kicker taking a field goal," PrieB said. "Then I had to get the ball oil' bnl'ore I got [to the towel]." 
Price's problem before this spring was that he had taken long steps throughout his punt­ing career, and that routine became a "bad habit." 
And for the past three sea­sons, Price's bad habit had the luxury of hiding behind the usu­ally consistent punting of D . .l. Fitzpatrick, who delivered all but one of Notre Dame's punts during the 2005-06 season. (Brady Quinn's 48-yard boot against Stanford was the lone kick Fitzpatriek did not attempt.) 
But now the senior Price is front and center in the punting game. 
The "bad habit" became a serious problem. 
"There was a technieal 11aw that needed to get fixed," spe­cial teams coach Brian Polian said. 
So Polian used a familiar face to help deliver Price the mes­sage that he had to change. 
Polian contacted Hunter Smith, a former Notre Dame standout and now a Pro Bowl punter with the Indianapolis Colts. Because of NCAA rules, Smith cannot work directly with Price, but the two had several conversations on punting tech­niques. 
"It's not that Hunter shared any great secret with him, that Hunter unlocked the key to any door," Polian said. "I think sometimes it's just very effective to hear it from another voice because I just become noise 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 

Geoff Price laid a towel on the ground, took three short steps back and became a better punter. 
The concept was that simple, but the realization of his goals was not -it took hours of work 
-
-
on Price's part to see his labor finally come to fruition. 
Price needed to shorten his strides and kick the ball quicker after receiving the snap to increase his length, consistency and trajectory. 
So he used a simple mecha­nism to implement the idea. 
"I would put a towel on the ground and take three steps once in a while.... And to have somebody who was a Domer and does it in the NFL, that holds a lot of water." 

Price took Smith's advice ­which was much the same as PoJiao's, but from a fresh source -and worked through­
out the spring and summer to improve. Price said it has taken countless repetitions but has paid olT. 
Special teams cap­tain Travis Thomas thinks so. 
"lie's been averaging 
"{With] Georgia Tech coming 
Aug. 14 was up, I'm not scared of8o,ooo his "one shot" to
people [or] national 
prove what

television. I'm scared ofWeis 
he's got. two yards behind me just A day after 
chirping in my ear, saying Price said 
that, Weis

all the things he can, trying 
claimed the 

to get me to mess up. " punter was exaggerat­ing.
Geoff Price 
Either way,
Irish punter 
Price deliv­

about forty-eight yards a punt during all of camp," Thomas said after Notre Dame's prac­tice Tuesday. "The thing with Geoll' is, when he's relaxed, he's mueh better." 
Thomas said Price's confi­dence in his new delivery has allowed him to relax and kick better. One of his jobs as special teams captain, Thomas said, is to keep Price in the right state of mind so he can kick his best. 
Price thinks he can stay in a comfortable zone. 
One person who tested that was Irish head coach Charlie Weis. 
"Him just standing back there talking to me while I'm trying to kick, that's worse than any­thing," Price said. "[With) Georgia Tech coming up, I'm not scared of 80,000 people [or) national television. I'm scared of Weis two yards behind me just chirping in my ear, saying all the things he can, trying to get me to mess up." 
Price said Weis told him the 
team's nighttime scrimmage in Notre Dame Stadium 
ered that night. He estimated an average of 56 yards a kick. 
Price isn't satisfied with that, though. IIe said he is willing to sacrifice a few yards if he can heighten his ball flight to avoid out-kicking his coverage. 
He said he'll continue to work on trajectory throughout prac­tices leading up to the Georgia Tech game and beyond. 
But his teammates and coach­es say he's a different punter than he was a year ago. 
"To see the way his improve­ment has continued has been very encouraging," Polian said. 
And PoJiao knows where the improvement came from. 
Just three short steps. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

WoULD YOU LIKE TO WRITE ABOUT CAMPUS NEWS, 
REVIEW CDs AND DVDs, CREATE PUBLISHED GRAPHics, 
PHOTOGRAPH EVENTS OR COVER IRISH SPORTS TEAMS? 
Meet editors from News, Sports, Viewpoint, Scene, Photo, Graphics, Ads & Business to find out what you could do for the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's daily. 
Please Join Us for 
The Observer Open House 
Sunday, August 27 2:00p.m. -4:00p.m. Basement ofSouth Dining Hall 
Food will be served. 




