----------------~------------------------, 

Catnpuses attract students over sununer break 

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Groups wage campus labor debates 
CLAP members will try to conduct sit-in 
By KAREN LANGLEY A•sociate News Editor 
Almost two weP.ks after Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves issued a state­ment firmly backing current University wage policies, on Monday members of the Campus Labor Action Project ICLAP) reiterated their demands-a $12.10 per hour wage l'or campus work­ers and the formation of a task force to address campus labor conditions. 
Their statement. made Monday morning at a press conference in front of LaFortune, also called for 
see CLAP/page 4 



Campus rally part of May Day event 
By RYAN SYDLIK News Writer 
As May Day rallies broke out across the nation Monday to raise awareness about immi­gration rights and fair incomes, nearly 100 students, workers and professors staged their own demonstration at Clarke Memorial Fountain ­bringing the national debate to a local level. 
The "America Needs a Raise" rally was planned to address workers' rights both "here on campus and around the world," sophomore Joseph Murphy said. 
The rally came after a morn-
see MAY DAY/page 3 

KERRY O'CONNORiThe Observer Prospective students tour campus in April. Some students stay on campus over the summer and work as tour guides. 
By KATIE KOHLER News Writer 
South Bend's appeal sky­rockets once you remove the school factor -at least in the eyes of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students preparing to spend their summers working on cam­pus at various opportunities offered through their respective school. 
Students have taken jobs doing anything from service projects to volunteering as tour guides this summer. Most of the summer employ­ees will live on campus in reserved dorms provided by their school. Not all students pay room and board, howev­er, as some jobs include 
housing. 
Notre Dame junior Kyle Miller said he worked on campus last year as a hall manager for the Office of Residence Life and Housing and is planning on doing the same this year. He lived in Pasquerilla East, which housed graduate students primarily for the Ernst & Young program, a weekly program sponsored by the Center for Continuing Education (CCE). 
"It was a fun and interest­ing job," Miller said. "The social life was a little more relaxed, but there is plenty to do as far as going to the movies, baseball games and other things. Most of the 
see SUMMER/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Distler avvarded top honor 
Double major chosen as 2006 valedictorian 
By MAUREEN MULLEN News Writer 
During the week of spring break -while most students enjoyed a vacation from academic rigor -senior Catherine Distler spent every free moment writing her valedicto­ry address. 
As one of more than a dozen exem­plary seniors nominated to give the class of 2006 com­mencement speech, Distler said she and the others selected were given three and a half weeks to write and submit a valedictory address. On April 24, Distler learned her speech was chosen as the May 21 graduation ceremony address. 
"I was thrilled to find out, but it's also a very humbling experi­ence because with the honor comes the realization that so many people were instrumental," Distler said. "I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for friends and profes­sors who helped along the way. I'm incredibly grateful to them." 
Distler, a double major in anthropology and pre-profession­al studies, will graduate with a 
3.94 overall GPA and a 4.0 major GPA. She recently decided to attend Johns Hopkins University for medical school following grad­uation. Distler said she wants to study medicine because it is "the pragmatic and compassionate practice of medicine that can 

see DISTLER/page 3 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Packets to w-arn new students of penalties 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Campus Life Council (CLC) members passed a resolu­tion Monday supporting the addition of cautionary infor­mation regarding third party Web sites and illegal downloading of files into the booklets distributed by each residence hall to incoming freshmen. 
But the original resolution -introduced by Liz Kozlow and Jacques Nguyen, chairs of the Task Force on Social Concerns -was amended before it could pass with the council's support. 
Kozlow and Nguyen pre­sented a design for an insert that warns freshmen the Office of Residence Life and Housing has the right to use pictures and language on Web sites like Facebook and MySpace for disciplinary purposes. 
The insert also cautions 
see CLC/page 3 

Antennas to go up over sutntner 


Cell phone reception should be improved 
By PETER NINNEMAN News Writer 
Beginning next year, students will not have to worry about not being able to make a cellular call on the day of a home foot­ball game or searching their dorm room for a miraculous spot where they get sufficient cell phone reception. 
Office of Information Technologies (OIT) chief tech officer Dewitt Latimer said that the "distributed antenna sys­tem" designed to enhance cell 
see PHONES/page3 


-~----­
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, May 2, 2006 





INSIDE COLUMN 

Catholic 

Scientology 
In a recent debate over such important issues as religion and whether or not "Mission Impossible Ill" will suck, my friend and I ended up discussing the next logical issue: 
Catholic Scientology. I know what you're think­ing: Catholieism'? Scientology'? Together'? Can such a religion exist'? Are the two philosophies too far removed from 


each other'? We  Brian Doxtader  
considered all the  
evidence and  Scene Editor  
decided that  

Catholicism and Scientology can, in fact, exist in tandem; nay, they belong togethnr like Brad and Angelina, Derni and Ashton, even Torn and Katin themselves. 
And of course, we all know the Biblical implications of the ever­important silmlt birth. The histori­cal and scientific evidence indicates a startling yet telling trend. Among those who had silent births: Moses, David and Jesus. Among those who didn't have silent births: Cain, Goliath and Judas. Coincidence'? I think not. 
Furtlwrmore, a lot of people may have failed to rnalizn that Scientology's founder, science l'ic­tion writer and all-around guru L. Hon llubbard, may have actually been the StH:ond corning. The signs an~ all then~: a birth in an obscure place ( Bnthltdwrn for Jesus, Tilden, Nebraska for llubbard), preaching in a place that starts with ".J" (.lnrusalnm and Jersey, New). and a h igh-prof'ile arrest (II u bbard for felony fraud). And perhaps above all, the most telling sign -you t:an't spell "Lord" without 1.. Hon lluhbard. 
Tlwrn is of course the argument that Catholidsm is a church for the poor and that Scion to logy is a chun:h for tlw rich. But that just means they n~presnnt the yin and yang of religiosity. And did you know that Tom Cruise, the face of Scientology. once aspired to be a Catholic priest? Obviously tlwre is a connection here-the link botwenn lwing a Catholic priest and !.wing a Scientologist disciple of Xnnu and the Galactic Confederat:y is thus clearly and undeniably strong. 
But maybe, just maybe, it's possi­bln that Catholicism is a legitimate religion and Scientology is just a load of bull. Maybe, just maybe, Cruise doesn't actually know what he's talking about (though he does know the history of psychiatry. You don't). And maybe, just maybe, the two religions don't really belong together, that there isn't really a eomparison to a religion founded by a scienee lietion writPr. Maybe we shouldn't be listening to a religion advoeated by Torn Cruise, Katie llolmes and John Travolta. After all, you ean't spell "ThP Bible" with "Battlefield Earth Blows." 
Contact Hrian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsenwr. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due 10 an editing error, the May I arricle "Kernan ends first term as University professor" reponed Governor Joe Kernan graduated from Notre Dame in 1964. Kernan is actually a 1968 graduate of the University. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE MEMORY FROM THIS SCHOOL YEAR? 

Joel Steiner Elizabeth Elliot Katie Shakour Erin Greenberg Christina Shakour 
sophomore sophomore freshman sophomore freshman Stanford Welsh Family Welsh Family Welsh Family Welsh Family 
"The 1 o person "Late night "Using jazz "When I got my "Waking my spoon train singing at the hands in kiss from Katy sister up at at the echo spot in Bookstore McCullough.,, 5 a.m. for some 
Katie McCullough 
sophomore Welsh Family 
"The second my lips touched herface.,, 
global night front ofBond.,, Basketball.,, 
,,
commute. 

Runners are cheered on by an onlooker Monday as they take advantage of the spring weather by participating in the Clary Murphy Thomas Run. 
OFFBEAT 

Woman claims her husband 
kept her as a slave 
CIIICAGO ~ A woman suing her wealthy hus­band for divoree in Chicago claims she spent the last six years as a tnr­rified slave Pnduring sadornasoehistic assaults. 
Kimberley O'Brien, 45, has also filed a separate suit against Kevin Anderson, 50, aecusing him of cheating her on joint business dealings, photographing her bound­and-gagged body, and causing a wrongful death by forcing her to abort a child against her will. 
Anderson denies all of her allegations, but nei-
TODAY 
c:: 

ther he nor his lawyer would speak to the Chicago Sun-Times for an interview. 
Anderson has one dornestie violenee-related conviction on his record from Oet. 4, 2005, in whieh he originally was charged with battery. In March, he pleaded guilty to the lesser charge of dis­orderly conduct. 
Man finds finger in his burger at T.G.I Friday's 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. ­A restaurant in Bloomington, Indiana says it's "very, very sorry" that one of its patrons found a piece of a finger garnish­ing his burger. 
A spokeswoman for TGI­Friday's says a kitchen manager accidentally cut his finger just before the meal was served, and no one noticed that a pince of flesh was missing until he got to the hospital. 
Spokeswoman Amy Freshwater says the restaurant knows "the seriousness of this inei­dent" and it's contaeted the customer. 
Police say they also heard from the diner, but an officer told him it's not a criminal offense. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
UJ 
:::1: 
~ 
UJ 
==..... 
<
(,) 

..... 0 HIGH 69 HIGH 53 HIGH 79 HIGH 69 

LOW 51 LOW 49 LOW 50 LOW 49 
,,
water. 
IN BRIEF 
The Notre Dame softball team will faee Loyola-Chieago today at 5 p.m. at Ivy Field. 
Notre Dame baseball will take on Cleveland State today at 5:05 p.m. in the Frank Eck Stadium. 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band will hold its Spring Concert today at S p.m. in thP Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Pnrforming Arts Center. The public is weleome to this free event, but must reserve tickets by calling the Tieket Office at (>31-2SOO. 
Unehained Melodies will hold their Spring Concert tonight at S p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Admission is $2. 
The End of The School Year Gospel Bash will take plaee Wednesday at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. The event costs $4 for students and $5 for the general public. 
The Saint Mary's music department will host a spring choral concert Thursday from 
7:30 to 9:30 p.m. in the Little Theater in the Moreau Center for tho Arts. The eoncert will feature performances by the Collngiate Choir, Bellacapella and the Women's Choir. 
Household and misePlla­neous items will be for saln to students and· general public at the ND-Surplus sale on Saturday from 8 a.m. -noon at 925 N. Eddy Street (next to the Hobinson Center). 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 61 HIGH 58 LOW 40 LOW 40 
Atlanta 79 I 57 Boston 48 I 45 Chicago 70 I 53 Denver 75 I 45 Houston 86 I 71 Los Angeles 72 I 58 Minneapolis 75 I 52 New York 65 I 51 Philadelphia 73 I 50 Phoenix 97 I 71 Seattle 63 I 41 St. Louis 81 I 56 Tampa 85 I 65 Washington 76 I 57 
Tuesday, May 2, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
MayDay 
continued from page 1 
ing press conference by the Campus Labor Action Project reaffirmed the group's commit­ment to instituting a $12.10 per hour wage for Notre Dame work­ers. On Monday morning, CLAP members -many of whom were involved in the rally ­announced a sit-in of University President Father John Jenkins' office, planned for this morning. 
But the issue reaches far beyond Notre Dame -and so do the concerns of the Notre Dame community. 
History professor Dan Graff said internationally recognized May Day allows for the reflection on political gains and losses sur­rounding labor issues. 
"Workers in American history have made gains when they made alliances with others sup­porting them," he said. 
Notre Dame junior Danielle Nunez spoke to the crowd about another battle over wages, the McDonald's campaign on behalf of the Student Farmworker Alliance. 
Nunez compared the current McDonald's campaign to the recent Taco Bell boycott. She said McDonald's and Chipotle have refused to sign an agree­ment similar to the one Taco Bell signed last year when it agreed to raise the buying price of a pound of tomatoes by one cent. 
"Last year, students and youth were crucial in the incredible vic­tory for tomato pickers," she said. "Now we encourage the same for McDonald and Chipotle." 
Theology professor Father Daniel Groody spoke to the audi­ence about the struggle of immi­grants in America. 
"Immigrants have a right to look for work from where they American idea that if you work hard you will get ahead. 
Healy said paying workers a higher wage raises the quality of goods and services. 
"If people are treated terribly and underpaid, it hurts morale," he said. 
And that's what CLAP has 
focused on over the past few months. Sophomore Katie 
come from ... "Ifpeople are McHugh said the but when they labor vision of
getting arrested for 
can't find work Notre Dame stu­in their coun­giving a cup of dents is not deter­tries, [they] have water to an illegal mined "by a mar­a right to come ket wage, a mini­
immigrant ... then
to countries mum wage, or where they can we have bigger even a Notre Dame find work," he problems than wage [but by a liv­said. ing wage]." 
illegal immigration. '' 
Groody said Monday's rally nations have a allowed the "right to control Father Daniel Groody Campus Labor borders, but not theology professor Action Project 
an absolute right." 
When immigrants come to America "they shouldn't be dis­couraged against because of the color of their skin" or because they don't speak English, he said. 
"If people are getting arrested for giving a cup of water to an illegal immigrant ... then we have bigger problems than illegal immigration," he said. 
Junior Mark Healy of the College Democrats rallied to raise minimum wage in America. 
"You can have a minimum wage job and work to the bone and not have enough," he said. 
This, he said, contradicts the (CLAP) to use this 
ideal as a model for change at Notre Dame as it works to implement a living wage for all University employ­ees. 
CLAP committee member sophomore Brian Klein and Murphy addressed the audience about their campaign for a living wage for all Notre Dame employ­ees. 
"CLAP stands for justice," Klein said, "This is a Catholic universi­ty, not a corporation. If we don't stand for justice, who will?" 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 

Distler 
continued from page 1 
bring about social change." 
Her interest in medicine is very much connected to her dedication to social service, a devotion her time at Notre Dame reflects. Distler said she was a member of student government her first two years at Notre Dame and became very involved in have met so many Notre Dame students who blow me away." 
Distler's commitment to service and the relationships she formed with her peers have rooted her valedictory speech in a theme that calls her fellow graduates to fur­ther action. 
"Everyone can make a change and leave something worthwhile behind," she said. 
Distler said her speech centers 
on the special, 
unique Notre Dame 
education. "It's 

the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) during her junior and senior  'Tll be nervous, but I think more than anything I'll be  about coming to Notre Dame and meeting peers and professors who  
years. She traveled to Calcutta, India in 2005 where she participated in an  caught up in the excitement and nostalgia of  change you and influence you," she said. "It's also about going out and  
International  commencement  encountering the  
Summer Service Project working  weekend."  world through the lens of Notre Dame,  
for nine weeks at Mother Teresa's  Catherine Distler  encountering the world and your  
Missionaries  of  valedictorian  community in a sin- 

Charity home for the destitute and sick. She has also served as co-organizer of Notre Dame's World AIDS Day Campaign and as a member of VOICE, the CSC's student advisory board. 
Distler said her experiences from student government and social service activities were largely "formative because of all the peers [she] has met." 
"They have been such impor­tant parts of my education," she said. "I am impressed and lucky to 
cere way. 
Fundamentally, it's 

about the greatness and uniqueness of the Notre Dame experience." Distler said she is more than prepared to give her speech. 
"I think it will be such an excit­ing day," she said. 'Til be nervous, but I think more than anything I'll be caught up in the excitement and nostalgia of commencement weekend." 
Contact Maureen Mullen at mmullenl@nd.edu 
concentrated near the Joyce Center and Notre Dame

Phones 
Stadium, since those are areas where more "capacity" is neces­
continued from page 1 
sary because of situations like phone reception on Notre football home games, Latimer Dame's campus should be fin­said. ished by August 1. Fewer antennas will be 
"Unlike cell towers, where placed on the quads and near you have one or two cell towers, classroom buildings, Latimer the distributed antenna system said, but they will still improve has more numerous, smaller reception quality as much as antennas closer to the ground ... the more concentrated anten­[that are I stealth in appear­nas since they are required to ance," Latimer said. "They don't carry a lesser amount of calls. stick out." Director of Residence Life and 
OIT had hoped Housing Jeff for antenna Shoup said the installation to improvements
"Unlike cell towers, 
begin this past were necessary April since snow where you have one because the would have melt­or two cell towers, "ResNet system ed off roofs, but was becoming
the distributed 
the contract with outdated." 
Cingular took antenna system has "We can't take longer than more numerous, out the phones expected. without working
smaller antennas 
Latimer said the on cell phone 
deadline would closer to the ground reception," still be met. ... [that are] stealth Shoup said, "We are a little referring to the
in appearance.
bit behind removal of land [butl we will line phones from hopefully start Dewitt Latimer dorm rooms within the next OIT chief tech officer starting next three to four academic year weeks," Latimer unless students said. choose to pay 
So far Cingular is the only extra. company to have committed to "Students will be informed the investment, but Latimer about what's going with the said there are talks underway phones again, if they want to with another carrier popular opt in," Shoup said. "They'll with students. although he also be informed about which could not specify which one it companies have gotten into this is. Talks are also underway with service, so they should all have smaller carriers, who are decid­very good connections on cam­ing whether or not they have pus." enough customers on campus to As for other dorm improve­make their investment in the ments, Shoup said that besides project profitable. However, cable and wireless Internet, Latimer said the antennas are only minor upgrades will be "carrier independent." made to dorms -with the 
"The previous way of doing it exception of Farley Hall, which was proprietary to a specific will require more renovation. carrier ... We have typically not Shoup also said eight more allowed cell towers on campus, dorms require cable and wire­which is why we haven't had less installation. good reception," Latimer said. 
There will be 16 antennas dis­Contact Peter Ninneman at creetly placed around campus, pninnema@nd.edu 
Lewis and Sister Susan nent to this topic" into its Dunn, the rector of Lyons freshman orientation book­
CLC 

Hall, both suggested pre-lets. Each residence hall continued from page 1 senting this maintains the 
information to discretion to that the most frequent Office new students decide of Residence Life and when they "While I see the whether to add Housing violation is the ille­attend their merit in passing it this informa­gal downloading and upload­first section tion and in
out in the first 
ing of files. meetings with what form to 
Kozlow said the Social their RAs. section meeting ... I present it if it Concerns committee felt it But student really think it's chooses to do was important to warn body president so.
important to include
incoming students of the Lizzi Shappell Knott Hall
this in the Frosh-0 
consequences of such behav­defended the rector Brother ior before they arrive at resolution to booklet." Jerome Meyer Notre Dame. add the insert, and SUB man­"We decided that maybe ager Jimmy
citing her own Lizzi Shappell
giving this to freshmen and experience as Flaherty both working with freshman ori­an inc 0 ming student body president expressed entation staff in the dorms is freshman eager­worry that the best way," Kozlow said. ly flipping future addi­Some rectors on the coun­through the pages of Badin's tions to the orientation book­cil voiced opposition to the orientation booklet. lets could take away from addition of the insert into Each dorm's freshman ori­the uniqueness of each one. their Frosh-0 booklets, say­entation booklet is a good "I think we have to be ing it would not mesh well venue to disperse the infor­careful of having cookie cut­with the welcoming message mation, Shappell said, since ter booklets going out," of the rest of the booklet. students are already enthu-Meyer said. "I think each 
Carroll Hall siastic about hall has its own booklet and rector Father reading it. there's a little bit of differ-Jim Lewis said "I think we have to "It is essential ence in each one." 
he does not be careful of to have this The resolution, in its feel the insert information in amended form, will be sent
having cookie 
is appropriate whatever to Vice President for Student for the booklet cutter booklets going capacity," Affairs Father Mark his dorm sends out. I think each hall Shappell said. Poorman. to its incoming "While I see the
has its own booklet
freshmen. merit in passing In other CLC news:
and there's a little
"This feels it out in the +Since it was the council's more like a bit of first section final meeting, former stu­duLac refer-meeting I dent body president Dave
difference in 
ence as really think it's Baron asked members to
each one." 
opposed to important to rate the success of the CLC 'Welcome to include this in this year and make recom­Carroll Hall, Brother Jerome Meyer the Frosh-0 mendations for items to welcome to the booklet." focus on when the group
Knott Hall rector
University -Before voting, reconvenes in the fall. oh by the way the council Members suggested topics here's this cautionary infor­amended the resolution to including extending move­mation,"' Lewis said. give each dorm more flexi­out days at the end of the 
Welsh Family rector bility regarding the insertion year, addressing the prob­Candice Carlson said while of information about third lems of alcohol abuse and she has dealt with privacy party Web sites and illegal gambling and making the issues regarding Facebook in downloading, rather than Office of Information her own dorm, she agreed use the insert designed by Technologies more student­with Lewis' assessment. the Task Force on Social user friendly. 
"I don't necessarily think Concerns. the freshman orientation The resolution was booklet is the place for this," changed to suggest that each Contact Kaitlynn Riely at Carlson said. hall add "information perti-kriely@nd.edu 
-----,-----------------~---­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, May 2, 2006 
Jenkins with a report on the servative" and explained that a she said. from other employees so living wage -defined by the person with wages of 125 per­Krafft emphasized the need frightened of retribution that

CLAP 

report as "the hourly rate of cent of the poverty line quali­for an objective taskforce, cit­they hide in "crooks and cran­
continued from page I income that a worker in a spe­fies for food stamps. ing the example of the Harvard nies" to speak with her. cific area must make in a 40-"We are a Catholic university, Living Wage Campaign and In his statement, Affleck­hour workweek to support a not a corporation," McHugh Harvard University's subse-Graves said CLAP's assertion 
further response from family of four." said. "Currently, quent raise in that workers "fear reprisal" if University administrators. Jenkins and other top admin­Notre Dame employee wages. they speak out against their
"We are a Catholic
CLAP members plan to occu­istrators, including Affleck­pays a poverty He said the wage and conditions was py University President Father Graves, met with CLAP mem­wage." university, not a structures cur­"deeply disturbing." John Jenkins' oflice this morn­bers March 31 to discuss the Former corporation. rently in place to Owens drew from personal ing in an effort to meet with administration's response to University cleri­address workers' experience as a SAC member
Currently, Notre 
Jenkins and present him with the report. In his April 19 cal employee needs the to express strong dissatisfac­petitions signed by more than statement. Affleck-Graves Julie Ferraro Dame pays a poverty Office of tion with SAC as a venue for 1,300 workers, alumni, faculty, backed existing University poli­contested the wage. Institutional dialogue between employees students and parents who sup­cies, saying they provide a "fair administration's Equity and the and the University. port CLAP's demands. The sit­and just" wage for employees. assertion that Staff Advisory "I saw it as a means for the in is scheduled In the Monday employees are Katie McHugh Council (SAC) -administration to tell us what to last an hour. press confer­paid a fair CLAP organizing member are inadequate they wanted us to know," she 
"!The adminis­ence, three wage. The lack to address the said. "But it never went the
"/The administration] 
tration I is going CLAP members of local jobs issues and inca­other way. We never had the to have to is going to have to -two of whom paying a living wage precludes pable of examining them objec­oppor~~nity to discuss !con­address our con­address our conerns. were student the market wage from being a tively. cerns]. cerns," said Nick body senators fair indicator of what The task force -comprised Brian Klein, CLAP organizing
We're demanding 
Krafft. CLAP for the 2005-06 University employees should be of workers, students, adminis­member and former Morrissey organ i..z i ~ g real dialogue. " term -as well paid, she said. trators, faculty and alumni -senator, said CLAP has been member. We re as one current Ferraro also argued against would examine labor issues thus far disappointed in its demanding real and one former Affleck-Graves' statement that including working conditions, attempts to engage the admin­
Nick Krafft 
dialogue." campus employ­employee benefits make up the treatment and wages, Krafft istration in real dialogue. 
While he said CLAP organizing member 
ee spoke in difference between actual said. It would then make rec­"Administrators have cate­the group has no defense of the wages and the area living ommendations to Jenkins, gorically dismissed our claims "hard deadline," proposal. wage. Affleck-Graves and Director of and concerns Iandi have called Kraff't said a lack of action CLAP organizing member "No amount of access to Human Resources Robert us inappropriate, arrogant and from the administration would and former Lewis senator recreational facilities, [nor] the McQuade, "who would act on presumptuous for speaking out force the group to "take more Katie McHugh reiterated the prospect of sending one's chil­these recommendations in on [the] workers' behalf," he drastic measure." group's proposal of a $25,164 dren here for their college edu­good faith." said. 
CLAP originally called for yearly wage. At 130 percent of cation at no cost" enables North Dining Hall supervisor these two changes March 8 the poverty line for a family of employees to pay for essentials Janice Owens said she has Contact Karen Langley at when members presented four, she called the figure "con-such as rent, utilities and food, received support and thanks klanglel@nd.edu 
Assistant Director of Stuifbergen said there are summers. She also worked as being at Notre Dame." External Events Jessica some easy jobs on campus for a research assistant, a desk Saint Mary's junior Allison
SuDlDler 

Stuifbergen said room and busy students. She said she clerk and Office of Residence Beyer will be working at the board cost an average of $40 hires four "lockouts," which Life and Housing hall staff Immigrant and Hefugee
continued from page I 

per night over the summer. are students on-call to unlock member. Center in South Bend this time we would be grilling Stuifbergen said she typically doors for people who are "Staying on campus was an summer through a service behind one of the dorms for hires 25 to 30 girls over the staying on campus. amazing experience, especial­program with the Office of our meals." summer to manage events "Some of the jobs are good ly during the weeks that there Civic and Social Engagement 
Saint Mary's junior Hache! that occur on campus but are for students who are taking were no conferences or sum­(OCSE). Sokolowski has worked at the not College­summer courses mer camps," she said. "It felt "The service program I College's Fine Arts Summer sponsored. in South Bend," like the few hall staffers were applied to was the best in
"/ usually have to
Camp for the past three years. Three of these she said. the only people there and we regards to experience and 
"I like staying on campus positions include turn people away. And there is formed great friendships." finances and I've heard noth­during the summer because of "event man­There are lots of never a shortage Notre Dame senior Moira ing but positive feedback from the scenery and weather," she agers," a priv­of workers, Madden was an assistant hall the past participants," she
great applicants 
said. "I love the camp and iledged position Peppers said. manager as well as a tour said. working with the campers." that includes and always a good "I usually have guide. She decided to stay on Whether working at camps Lisa Peppers, assistant free room and number ofpeople to turn people campus for the summer after or as a special events coordi­director for Internal Events in board. away," she said. traveling abroad. nator, students at Notre Dame
who contact us." 
the Ofl'ice of Special Events at "The 'event "There are lots of "I felt like I missed five and Saint Mary's seem to Saint Mary's, said some stu­managers' do all great applicants months of Notre Dame," she appreciate the opportunity to dent employment opportuni­the leg-work Lisa Peppers and always a said. "This was my way of work and live on campus over ties include counselors at fine once the organi­assistant director good number of making up for lost time." the summer. arts, athletic or academic zations get to people who con­Brown, originally from "We get nothing but positive
Internal Events 
camps as well as lifeguarding campus," tact us." northeastern Pennsylvania, feedback," Peppers said. 
at the campus pool. Camp Stuifbergen said. Some students said she decided to stay on "That is why we keep getting 
counselors live and dine in "The positions that offer free take volunteering jobs over campus to get better job expe­so many applicants every 
the residence halls with the room and board are highly the summer months. Notre rience. year." 
campers, but other workers competitive, and we usually Dame senior Mallory Brown "I felt like I could get more 
typically need to pay for room have ~. large number of appli­has been a tour guide at experience here than horne," Contact Katie Kohler at 
and board. 
Please 






re~~le 
Observer. 
cants. Notre Dame for the past two Brown said. "I just really like kkohleO I @saintmarys.edu 

Over $75,000 in Prizes 
In its 15th Year of Honoring Student Inventors 



ENTER NOW! 


www. invent.org/coII e g i ate 
The Collegiate Inventors Competition® is a national program
A program of the 
designed to recognize and encourage graduate and
National Inventors Hall of Fame® Foundation 
undergraduate students in their quest to invent and Presenting sponsors develop new technologies and scientific breakthroughs. 
~Abbott 

A Grand Prize of $25,000
L..J Fund 
A top Graduate Prize of $15,000 A top Undergraduate Prize of $10,000 And a $3,000 prize for the advisor of each winning entry 

Collegiate Inventors Competition and National Inventors Hall of Fame 
are registered trademarks of the National Inventors Hall of Fame Foundation. 
United States Patent and Trademark Office 
<tl2006 National inventors Hail of Fame Foundation 




ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, May 2, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S wmE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Rebel factions stall peace agreement 
ABUJA, Nigeria-Darfur rebels have bick­ered among themselves, violated a cease-fire and even been accused of attacking peace­keepers. Now they risk being seen as standing in the way of an agreement to stop the blood­shed in one of the saddest places in the world. 
With a midnight Tuesday deadline approaching after more than two years of talks here, Sudan's government said it was ready to sign a peace accord with the rebels from the western Sudanese region of Darfur. 
But the rebels, suspicious of the govern­ment's intentions, rejected the agreement pro­posed by the African Union. They said it did not guarantee enough political power for Darfur or provide enough detail on how it would be implemented. 
"We are not ready to sign until the Sudanese give concessions to our demands," said Ahmed Hussein, a spokesman for one of two rebel factions. 
Fiscal crisis cripples Puerto Rico 
SAN JUAN -Many basic functions of Puerto Rico's government were unavailable Monday as the U.S. commonwealth ran out of money and imposnd a partial public-sector shutdown-put­ting nearly 100,000 people -including 40,000 teachers -out of work and granting an unscheduled holiday to 500.000 public school studenl'i. 
The shutdown-the first in Puerto Rico's histo­ry -happened despite last-minute attempts by members of the legislature and Gov. Anibal Acevedo Vila to agme on a bailout plan. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Court denies appeal for pro-life ads 
WASHINGTON -The Supreme Court on Monday ended a decade-long fight over the use by anti-abortion protesters of "wanted" posters to identify clinic doctors. 
Activists who created Wild West-style posters and a Web site targeting abortion doctors had been ordered to pay nearly $5 million in damages, and the court refused without comment to take up their appeal. 
The 12 activists and two anti-abortion groups were sued under a racketeering law and the 1994 Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act, which makes it illegal to incite violence and threaten abortion doc­tors. 
A Portland, Ore., jury had first awarded several doctors and clinics $108 million in punitive damages, but that was reduced by the San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. 
Governors push for health programs 
NEW YORK -A national campaign by the states' governors is using everything from bike rides with the South Carolina governor to anti­smoking statutes to try and get Americans to eat and smoke less and exercise more. 
"Across 50 states, you have innovations tak­ing place that are changing the discussion," Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, this year's chairman of the National Governors Association, said Monday. "The health issue is beginning to eclipse the health care issue." 
Huckabee, who has explored the possibility of a presidential run in 2008, is visiting with a national advertising group in New York this week to talk about ways to get the message out. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Concernssurround Indiana primary 
INDIANAPOLIS -Election workers braced for their first test of voters showing photo ID at the polls amid questions of whether machine and ballot problems and poll-worker shortages could also cause problems and frustration during Tuesday's primary. 
Secretary of State Todd Rokita said he was optimistic the election would go rela­tively smoothly. But as a contingency, an Indiana Department of Transportation heli­copter would be available to send election attorneys, technicians or others to polling places if serious problems arose. 
INDONESIA 

Activists organize across globe 
May Day rallies remain peaceful in most areas; protests tense in Philippines, Belarus 
Associated Press 
JAKARTA -Workers around the world held May Day rallies Monday to press for better factory conditions and higher wages in mostly peaceful marches, while activists in the Philippines and Belarus used the holiday to show their opposition to their governments in tense protests watched by police. 
In Sri Lanka, where vio­lence between Tamil Tiger rebels and the military has heightened fears of a return to civil war, the government canceled all May Day rallies in the capital, Colombo. Traditionally, almost all Sri Lankan political parties hold May Day rallies. 
About 100,000 workers took to the streets across Indonesia, protesting a labor law that would cut severance packages and introduce more flexible contracts that would chip away at worker security. 
"Don't change the law," thousands of laborers chant­ed in downtown Jakarta. Fearing violence, about 13,000 police were deployed, some carrying riot shields • and manning water cannons, said police chief Maj. Gen. Firman Ganisaid. No inci­dents were reported. 

In Cuba, more than one million workers in red T­ing of a Cuban airliner that grew to about 2,000. Police speeches from trade union shirts distributed by the gov­killed 7 3 people and has stood on either side of the leaders and the mayor and ernment crowded into applied to become a U.S. citi­demonstrators as they listen to a concert, the !TAR­Havana's Plaza of the zen. walked to the square, warn­Tass news agency reported. Revolution and adjacent Most rallies across Europe ing them that they were In Istanbul, Turkey, police avenues, and listened as were peaceful, although ten­breaking the law, but did not fired tear gas and pepper President Fidel Castro said sions were evident in intervene. spray at demonstrators recent U.S. military maneu­Belarus, where about 2,000 Police later stopped opposi­shouting slogans against the vers in the Caribbean were opposition supporters tion figure and former parlia­United States and the aimed at intimidating Cuba marched in Minsk in a show ment speaker Stanislav International Monetary Fund, and its ally, Venezuela. of defiance, days after the Shushkevich, who had organ­and detained about 40. In the 
Castro also criticized authoritarian government of ized the march, and sum­town of Elazig in eastern Washington's handling of the President Alexander moned him to appear in two Turkey, another 30 were court case of Cuban-born Lukashenko tried to stop an days' time at a police station detained following a scuffie militant Luis Posada Carriles, unprecedented series of on charges of staging an with police that left four peo­whom he accuses of being demonstrations by throwing unauthorized rally. ple injured. the Western Hemisphere's protest leaders in jail. Hundreds of thousands of In the Philippines, govern­No. 1 terrorist, and who is The rally began with an people turned out across ment troops and police with being held in the United unauthorized march by 800 Russia for more traditional batons and shields turned States on immigration activists, who walked about 1 May Day celebrations. away hundreds who tried to charges. Posada, a former 1/4 miles from the Academy About 25,000 people gath­approach the presidential CIA operative and fervent of Sciences to a square where ered in Moscow opposite the palace to demand a wage Castro foe, is accused of mas­authorities had given permis­mayor's office in the warm increase and President Gloria terminding the 1976 bomb-sion for the gathering, which spring sunshine to hear Macapagal Arroyo's ouster. 

Immigrants stage industrial boycott 
America is, legal or illegal, it doesn't hundreds not thousands. 
Associated Press matter," said Melanie Lugo, who with In Los Angeles, protesters wearing LOS ANGELES -Hundreds of thou­her husband and their third-grade white and waving U.S. flags sang the sands of mostly Hispanic immigrants daughter joined a rally of some 75,000 national anthem in English as tradition­skipped work and took to the streets in Denver. "We butter each other's al Mexican dancers wove through the Monday, flexing their economic muscle bread. They need us as much as we crowd. In Chicago, illegal immigrants in a nationwide boycott that succeeded need them." from Ireland and Poland marched in slowing or shutting many farms, fac­Police estimated 400,000 people alongside Hispanics as office workers tories, markel'> and restaurants. marched through Chicago's business on lunch breaks clapped. In Phoenix, From Los Angeles to Chicago, district. In Los Angeles, there was no protesters formed a human chain in Houston to New Orleans, the "Day announced count, but one law enforce­front of Wal-Mart and Home Depot Without Immigrants" attracted wide­ment official put it at about 300,000. stores. A protest in Tijuana, Mexico, spread participation despite divisions Tens of thousands more marched in blocked vehicle traffic heading to San among activists over whether a boycott New York, along with about 15,000 in Diego at the world's busiest border would send the right message to Houston and 30,000 more across crossing. Washington lawmakers considering Florida. Smaller rallies in cities from Many carried signs in Spanish that sweeping immigration reform. Pennsylvania and Connecticut to translated to "We are America" and "We are the backbone of what Arizona and South Dakota attracted "Today we march, tomorrow we vote." 
page 6 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, May 2, 2006 
Macs are a gro-wing security risk 
Experts worry the computers can no longer boast virus immunity 
Associated Press 
SAN FHANCISCO Benjamin Daines was browsing the Web when he clicked on a­series of links that promised pictures of an unreleased update to his computer's oper­ating system. 
Instead, a window opennd on thn screen and strange com­mands ran as if the machine was under the control of some­one -or something-else. 
Daines was the victim of a computer virus. 
Such headaches arc hardly unusual on PCs running Microsoft Corp.'s Windows operating system. Daines, how­ever, was using a Mac _ an Apple Computer Inc. machine often touted as being immune to such risks. 
lie and at least one other person who clicked on the links were infected by what seeurity experts call the first-ever virus for Mac OS X, the operating system that has shipped with every Mae sold since 2001 and has survived virtu­ally unscathed 

from the onslaught of malware  "It just shows  other Macs  signs are a  
unleashed on  the  people that no  growing target:  
Internet in recent  matter what kind  -The SANS  
years. "It just shows people that no  of computer you use you are still  Institute, a computer-secu­rity organiza­ 
matter what kind of computer you use you are still  open to some level ofattack. ,  tion in Bethesda, Md., added Mac OS  
open to some level  X to  its  2005  
of  attack,"  said  Benjamin Daines  list of the top- 
Daines, a 29-year­old British chemi­ chemical engineer  20 Internet vul­nerabilities. It  
cal engineer who  was  the  first  

once considered Macs invul­time the Mac has been includ­nerable to such attacks. ed since the experts started 
Apple's iconic status, growing compiling the list in 2000. market share and adoption of -This week, SANS updated same microprocessors used in the list to warn against flaws in machines running Windows Safari, the Mac Web browser, are making Macs a bigger tar­which the group said criminals get, some experts warn. were able to attack before 
Apple's most recent wake-up Apple could flx it. call came last week, as a -The number of discovered Southern California researcher Mac vulnerabilities has soared reported seven new vulnerabil­in recent years, with 81 found ities. Tom Ferris said malicious last year, up from 46 in 2004 Web sites can exploit the holes and 27 in 2003, according to without a user's knowledge, the Open Source Vulnerability potentially allowing a criminal Database, which is maintained to execute eode remotely and by a nonprofit group that gain access to passwords and tracks security vulnerabilities other sensitive information. 
from doing much damage. Still, several of his operating system files were deleted, several new Iiles were created and several applications, including a pro­gram for recording audio, were crippled. 
Behind the scenes, the virus also managed to hijack his instant messaging program so the rogue file was blasted to 10 people on his buddy list. 
"A lot of Mac users are in denial and have blinders on that say, 'Nothing is ever going to get to us,"' said Neil Fryer, a computer security consultant who works for an international financial institution in Britain. "I can't say I agree with them." 
Fryer, also a Mac user, said he has begun taking additional precautions over the past year to make sure he doesn't fall victim to an attack. He spends more time than in the past scrutinizing his security logs for signs of intruders, and he uses a firewall and additional security applications, just as he would with a Windows-based 
machine. 
Among the 

on many different hardware 
and software platforms. 
-Less than a week after 
Daines was attacked in mid­
February, a 25-year-old com­
puter security researcher 
released three benign Mac­
based worms to prove a seri­
ous vulnerability in Mac OS X 
could be exploited. Apple asked 
the man, Kevin Finisterre, to 
hold off publishing the code 
until it could patch the flaw. 
The Mac's vulnerability could also increase as Apple transi­tions to a product line that uses microprocessors made by Intel Corp., security experts said. 
With new Macs running the same processor that powers Windows-based machines, far more people will know how to exploit weaknesses in Apple machines than in the past, when they ran on the PowerPC chips made by IBM Corp. and Motorola Corp. spinoff Freescale Semiconductor Inc. 
"They have eliminated their genetic diversity," said inde­pendent security consultant Rodney Thayer. "The fear is that we're going to run into a new class of attacks." 
Bud Tribble, Apple's senior vice president of software tech­nology, disagreed. 
"All the things we've been doing to make Mac OS X secure continue to be relevant on Intel," he said. 
Mac OS X, he said, is designed to be Internet safe out of the box, without the need for firewalls or additional security software. He praised Mac OS X for making it easy for users to automatically install.security patches. 
He noted that the operating system was derived from FreeBSD, open source software that was built from the ground up to provide security for com­puters networked together. Since its origins in the early 1990s, the ·Unix-based FreeBSD has continually been battle-tested by college stu­dents and computer security specialists. 
"The bottom line is we still feel more comfortable using a Mac than a (Windows) PC," said Alan Paller, director of research for SANS. 


Socially concerned art featured in exhibition 
Photos display the darker side of society 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -It's a simple, stark image: a fresh mound of earth with a small headstone at one end and an equally tiny foot stone at the other. Instead of vases for flowers, there are milk and Coca­Cola bottles. 
It's a black-and-white photo­graph, but the viewer has no problem recognizing its bare earth as red Southern clay. The photo's title, "A Child's Grave, Hale County, Alabama," and its date, the Depression year 1936, provide enough background to reconstruct the small tragedy it represents. 
The small print by Walker Evans is in the permanent collec­tion of the Art Institute of Chicago, and it is one of 70 pho­tos from that collection now on display in an exhibition titled "The Concerned Photographer." The show gives a tour of the 20th century's dark side and demon­strates how the 15 featured pho­tographers transformed the tra­ditional objectivity of their art into a tool for political and social change. 
The curators of the show chose their title in homage to famed photojournalist Cornell Capa, who has used it for several exhi­bitions in the past. 
The concerned photographer, the Hungarian-born Capa once explained, "finds much in the present unacceptable, which he tries to alter. Our goal is simply to let the world also know why it is unacceptable." 
The earliest photos in the exhi­bition were taken by Lewis Wickes Hine for the National Child Labor Committee, and they have the distinction of having transformed concern into politi­cal action. Historians credit them with prompting some of the nation's earliest child-labor legis­lation. 
They have lost none of their power in the nearly 100 years since they were taken. 
Young Sadie Pfiefer, pho­tographed in 1908, seems dwarfed by the giant bobbins she 
is tending at a cotton mill in 
Lancaster, S.C. And a 1911 pic­
ture I line took at a mine in South 
Pitt'iton, Pa., still shocks with the 
realization that the coal-black­
ened miners are young boys. 
One of the stars of the exhibi­tion is Margaret Bourke-White, who took many of her pictures for Life magazine. One of her earliest in the show is 1937's much-reproduced "World's Highest Standard of Living." In the photo, a poster bearing that title, plus the slogan "There's no way like the American Way," is plastered over a building wall. The poster shows a smiling white family and their dog enjoying a country ride in their new car. But filing past the poster are black urban residents waiting patiently in a bread line. 
Another Bourke-White photo in the show is from the liberation of the Buchenwald concentration camp in 1945. That one is har­rowing, but even it is not as hard to view as one she shot the next year during the Ilindu-Muslim violence that accompanied the partition of India. Bourke-White went to a slum in Calcutta and came back with a picture of scores of vultures feasting on piles of corpses in the streets. 
The vulture photo is balanced, at least in part, by Bourke­Whitc's justly famous portrait of Mahatma Gandhi at his spinning wheel. 
Another Life photographer, W. Eugene Smith, is represented by pictures from "Man of Mercy," a photo essay he shot in 1954 about Dr. Albert Schweitzer at the Nobel peace prize winner's medical mission in Lambarene, Gabon. Smith took several hun­dred photos, and when Life decided to run only 25 of them, he tendered his resignation. 
The exhibition also features pictures of the U.S. civil rights struggle by Danny Lyon, Bruce Davidson and the late Gordon Parks; Susan Meiselas' 1978 pho­tos of Sandinista revolutionaries in Nicaragua (the only color work in the show); and Gilles Peress' documentation of Bloody Sunday (Jan. 30, 1972). when British troops killed 14 demonstrators and wounded 13 others in Londonderry, Northern Ireland. 
Ferris said he warned Apple of the vulnerabilities in .January and February and that the eornpany has yet to patch the holes, prompting him to compare the Cupertino-based computer maker to Microsoft three years ago, when the world's largest software eom­pany was criticized for being slow to respond to weaknesses in its products. 
"They didn't know how to deal with security, and I think Apple is in the same situation now," said Ferris, himself a Mae user. 
Apple ofTieials point to the eompany's virtually unvar­nished security track record and disputed claims that Mac OS X is more susceptible to attaek now than in the past. 
Apple plans to patch the holes reported by Ferris in the next automatic update of Mae OS X, and them have bonn no reports of them being exploit­nd, spokeswoman Natalie Kerris said. She disagreed that the vulnerabilities make it pos­sible fi1r a criminal to run code on a targeted maehinc. 
In Daines: infndion, a bug in the virus' eode prevented it 

TUESDAY, MAY 2@ 5:05PM 
c'I;:J AN AMERICAN 

VS-Q.uiNNIPIAC R=\IOUJTION 
FRE:E: 5ASE:BALL CAP TO THE: FIRST 200 FANS 
vs. LOUISVILLE 
~~"W FRIDAY, MAY 5@ 6:05 FREE: 5ASE:5ALL GLASS TO EARLY ARRIVING FANS 
SATURDAY, MAY 6@ 1:05PM 
FRE:E: SUNGLASS CASE: TO eARLY ARRIVING FANS 
•

FReE: HAM5URGE:RS/HoTDOGS FOR EARLY ARRIVINc.. ND, SMC, AND HCC SE:NIORS (WHILE: SUPPLIE:S LAST) FIRST 250 SENIORS WILL RECEIVE THE OFFICIAL SENIOR DAY SHIRT, SPONSORE:D F>Y CocA-COLA. 
SUNDAY, MAY 7@ 12:05PM fiiiilia 
Hc>Uerhl(rt'dlt-ntf 

FREE: MINI-5AT TO EARLY ARRIVING FANS ......,...~ 

THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Tuesday, May 2, 2006 
page 7 

BOLIVIA 
Army seizes natural gas fields 
British, Brazilian, Argentinian oil multinationals brace for severe losses 
Associated Press 
LA PAZ -President Evo 
Morales ordered soldiers to 
occupy Bolivia's natural 
gas fields Monday and 
threatened to evict foreign 
companies unless they give 
Bolivia control over the 
entire chain of production. 
Morales sent soldiers and engineers with Bolivia's state-owned oil company to installations and fields tapped by foreign compa­nies -including Britain's BG Group PLC and BP PLC, Brazil's Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Spanish-Argentine Repsol YPF SA, France's Total SA and U.S.-based Exxon Mobil Corp. The companies have six months to agree to new contracts or leave Bolivia, he said. 
Vice President Alvaro 
Garcia Linera said troops 
were sent to 56 locations 
around the country. 

Soldiers took over major gas fields and refineries and, in the eastern city of Santa Cruz where much of the industry is based, occu­pied some oil company offices, said Tuffi Are, news editor at the El Deber ern Bolivia operated by extraction of the fossil Morales said. newspaper, one of Bolivia's Petrobras in association fuels. An Army spokesman did largest. He said about 100 with Repsol and Total SA. It comes as Ecuador not immediately return soldiers were guarding the "The looting by the for-argues with Washington telephone requests for Petrobras refinery just out­eign companies has over a new oil royalties law comment. side the city. ended," Morales declared. and less than a month after Multinational companies 
Morales, a leftist allied Brazil is Bolivia's biggest Chavez ordered the seizure that produced 100 million with Cuba's Fidel Castro natural gas client, followed of oil fields from Total and cubic feet of natural gas and Venezuela's Hugo by Argentina, and Brazil's Italy's Eni SpA when the daily last year in Bolivia Chavez in seeking to blunt demand has been rising companies failed to comply will be able to retain only 
U.S. influence in the rapidly due to power gen­with a government demand 18 percent of their produc­region, had pledged to eration, cooking and auto­that operations be turned tion, with the rest being exert greater state control motive needs. over to Venezuela's state oil given to YPFB, he said. over the industry since Landlocked Bolivia must company, Petroleos de Morales did not name the winning election in sell to its neighbors Venezuela SA. companies. December, becoming because it lacks a pipeline Bolivia has South A Repsol spokesman said Bolivia's first Indian presi­to ship gas to the Pacific America's second largest the company could not dent. Ocean and from there to natural gas reserves after respond because it had not 
"The time has come, the Asia, Mexico or the United Venezuela, and all foreign received official word of awaited day, a historic day States. companies must turn over the announcement. in which Bolivia retakes The announcement fol­most production control to Petrobras officials did not absolute control of our nat­lows a trend by oil-and Bolivia's cash-strapped immediately return mes­ural resources," Morales gas-rich Latin American state-owned oil company, sages seeking comment on said in a speech from the nations to exact a larger Yacimientos Petroliferas Monday, a national holiday San Alberto field in south-share of profits from Fiscales Bolivianos, in Brazil. 


Google, MS clash over search tool 
Associated Press The next version of Internet quality of search services," Marissa 
Explorer, available now in test form, Mayer, Google's vice president of 
SEATTLE -Google Inc. is hoping includes a box in the corner that search products and user experi­to pressure Microsoft Corp. into lets people perform an Internet ence, said Monday. changing a new Internet Explorer search without going to a separate Gary Schare, director of product browser feature that could direct Web page, much like what's avail­management for Internet Explorer, more people to Microsoft's online able from Google's downloadable said Redmond-based Microsoft's search engine instead of Google's "toolbar." goal is to let users choose the far more popular offering. Users who download IE 7 will be search engine they want. He also 
Google has informally complained assigned a search engine preference said Microsoft's feedback has shown to U.S. and European antitrust reg­based on the AutoSearch function that it's not difficult to change to a ulators about what it says are from the previous version of IE, different search engine. biased settings on Microsoft's latest which is likely to be MSN Search. "MSN has a certain amount of Web browser, marking the latest Google says it's concerned that (market) share. This is not designed spat between two companies whose Microsoft's own search engine is to change this," Schare said. "This business models are increasingly getting favored treatment, and said is designed to essentially keep the bumping up against one another. research it has sponsored shows status quo." 
Mountain View, Calif.-based that it's difficult to change the set­Internet Explorer's main competi­Google regards Microsoft as the tings in the new browser to a rival tors, Firefox and Opera, both biggest threat to its continued suc­search engine. include similar boxes with the cess, and Microsoft has conceded "The market favors open choice default search engine set to Google, that Google is a formidable competi­for search, and companies should although users can change to anoth­tor as well. compete for users based on their er provider. 
--------------------------------------------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, May 2, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box n9. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Soud1 Dining HJII, No~r<· Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Gilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Maddie Hanna Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITORl Rama Gottumukkala 
Assl~ MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
Nt:ws EI>ITORS: Amanda Michaels 
Mary Kate Malone SPORTS EDITOR Ken Fowler 
VIEWPOI!Ifl' EDITOR Joey King 
S<:F.NE EJ>ITOR: Brian Doxrader 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PII<YJ'O EmToR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebctsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CoNTROl.LER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
SYSTF.MS ADMINISTRA:TOR Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsmc@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsncws.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(S74) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
Why are we afraid of freedom? 
Well, Notre Dame, the twilight of my college career is upon me. It is difficult to believe that after four short years I am on my way out, and after only eight short months, Live and Let Live or Die is, well, off to die. 
Maybe this column has been enough to set your philosophi­cal wheels in motion. Maybe the reader­ship of The Observer has taken that first, painful step away from the Hepublicrat Party, and has now begun the inevitable face-first slide towards libertarian­ism. (Yeah, right.) However, one must admit that it is difli­cult to dispute the wise words of P.J. O'Rourke: "There is only one basic human right, the right to do as you damn well please. And with it comes the only basic human duty. the duty to take the consequences." Libertarianism does not make any claims on your life, your property or your happiness. We believe that as long as you leave people alone, they must leave you alone as well. 
It was once said that a conservative is a liberal who has been mugged. For the sake of consistency, then, a libertarian is a liberal who has been mugged by a roving gang of conservatives. We'll call them the government. 
Hopefully, the idea of a roving gang of conservatives is enough to make you laugh, because I think the idea is hilari­ous. The metaphor is also apt. 
All the while, I have tried to paint a picture of politics (yawn) that is fairly bleak. I have attempted to point out the 

Scott Wagner 
Live and Let Live or Die 
blatant hypocrisy of the Hepublican 
Party, or the silly quasi-socialism of the 
Democrats. I have drawn parallels 
between them, highlighted the lies they 
tell us and offered solutions that do not involve more government control. 
The problem is, of course, that this is a college campus. Aside from the hand­ful of students who actually care, poli­tics is a mystical realm that exists out­side the hallowed halls of Our Lady. Politics more aptly describes the drama of room picks, the ND hookup culture or some kind of drinking game. The things that matter here are much more benign. 
The "academic freedom" battle has been raging since I came here in 2002, and it is something I was not expecting to encounter in college. Honestly, I thought, what kind of college student would presume to tell other college stu­dents what they may or may not see? Surely, I naively dreamed, such people would not exist at Notre Dame. 
The fact is, such people exist every­where, even at Notre Dame. My wild libertarian heart refused to believe it at first; here I was, a bright-eyed fresh­man with the first moments of pseudo­adulthood upon me, and people were telling me I should not be allowed to see a play? 
After starting the College Libertarians (with the help of Catherine Kent, who still has two years left to tear it up as president), I have discovered that peo­ple are afraid of freedom. People are afraid of what might happen when they are not in control of every situation that arises, because they are afraid of what it might mean to be accountable only to themselves. In America, and at Notre Dame, we are afraid of being faced with consequences. We are afraid of what others might think or say, and so we do 
our best to control everything we ean. 
Why do we fear 'The Vagina Monologues"? Why do we fear the Queer Film Festival? Not beeause out­siders will suddenly think that the Catholic Church is accepting of homo­sexuality, but because we are afraid of giving other people that little bit of power over their own lives. If we do not stop them, we are told, the students of Notre Dame will drown themselves in secular humanism. When we say "aca­demic freedom," "academic" is a just a contextual qualifier. We are really talk­ing about freedom, plain and simple. 
So here is the real question: I low free should the students of Notre Dame be? 
I am leaving this place now, so that question is not mine to answer any­more. But it is not just a question for this schoo -it is also pertinent to this nation. Is it best to err on the side of lib­erty and be forced to face the conse­quences? 
Preserving what little liberty we have is easier than finding it again once it is gone. It may be scary, but as Edmund Burke wrote in 1899, "The true danger is when Liberty is nibbled away, for expedience." 
And make no mistake, there will always be people ready to nibble away at the liberty of others. Therefore, my final piece of advice for you is this: Don't be one of them. 
Scott Wagner is the president emeri­tus of the College Libertarians, and you might see him someday as the disinter­ested ruler of the world. Until then, he can be contacted at swagnerl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper publishe-d in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saim Mary's College. Edirorial coment, including advertisements, is not gowmed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos.~ible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of dw majoriry of rhe Editor in Chief; Managing 'Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the amhors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vi<"Wpoint space is available to all readers. The free cxprc~ion of.til opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must he signed and must include mntact inf(mnation. 
Questions rrgarding Obsm;erpo/ici~s shot~!d be din:ctrd to F.ditor in ChiefMike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'111c Uh<o<T•'l'r (lJ..,;PI\ 'S99 2.-4txKI) ,. publlllhc1l Mumby lluoutt;h frid.~~y t'll~l:pl 1lmmg cum ;nut V.l<.'allllll pcrk,Js. A •ul~raprinnln The ObtoCrwr t1 $1ll0 fur nne au.lcmic 
re<~r, $'j'j fi,rnuc~~erncltrr 
Thr ()hacrver 11 pubf1•hnJ .u 
024 ~ouch llinlfiK f lall ~nd o~.ddFNo cur~aioru 10: 
Nurre 0.1mc,IN "61S6-Gn9 'Inc Obicnocr 
Pcrmdi~o.al fKJ"f ~r paid "' Notrt Do1mc r.o &xnrJ 
;md addiMnJ.I m1ilmg offu:a. 024 South Dinmg H:dl Nvtte Oame,JN 4M~..Q779 
The O!mrver 1g 11 member Dl rhc A\MM:I.tted Pf'OI:'>. All rqml<iucrion rit\hr~> 11te l'ucrV1:J. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Nicole Zook Sports Kelly Meehan Ken Fowler 
Peter Ninneman Eric Hetter Pat Moore Tim Kaiser Viewpoint Scene 
Alyssa Mark Brauweiler Bemenderfer Graphics Alexa Antekeier 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Race cannot be discounted as factor 
I would like to respond to Elizabeth Coffey's April 27 column "Keep the Race Issue out of it." First off, I want to say that I am a huge Duke fan, and have the utmost respect for the school. In many ways, I consider Duke to be the Notre Dame of the south. I will also agree with her that what occurred in Durham is a moral disaster. However, I must say that I was disappointed by her article in Thursday's edition of The Observer. When you consider a party of all-white, upper-class males watching an African-American woman remove her clothes, you cannot immediately say that racism was an issue. However, when there are reports that the men were scream­ing racial slurs directed at black women and teasing them about picking cotton, it becomes a racial issue. 
Next, you talk about Duke being 56 percent white, but you neglect the fact that the lacrosse team is 97 percent white. On top of this, these lacrosse players generally come from the most upper-class schools on the Eastern seaboard. So it is fair­ly safe to say that these kids probably don't associate with many black women. 
I cannot say if rape occurred or not, and I hope and pray that it did not. To argue that race does not even play a minor role in this situation is simply ignorant. As much as it hurts to admit, racism is still alive and well within the United States, especially in the South. 
The quote that really upset me though, was the following: "What kind of a mother is also a stripper?" To say that with­out placing yourself in the mother's shoes is rather offending. You have absolutely no idea what it is like to be a single moth­er trying to make it through college, raise your child without a 
OBSERVER POLL 
What are you doing this summer? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
father and also make money. You cannot fault a mother that does whatever she legally can to feed and take care of her child. Your opinion seems both elitist and condescending. 
Last, to state that Notre Dame is a "rare exception these days" could actually be laughed at by an outsider. You proba­bly don't remember this or know about it, but a few years before I entered Notre Dame in 2002, four athletes were on trial for sexual assault. On top of this, former Irish football player Clifford Jefferson was also accused of rape. Last, a member of our Board of Trustees, Dave Duerson, turned in his resignation in 2004 after he reportedly assaulted his wife. We are not the moral beacon that you purport us to be. Unfortunately, your article makes our school appear that we are simply unaware of our institution's shortcomings. 
I will agree with you that the "race card" is played too often, but it must be considered in this case. On top of this, be care­ful about what you state without actually considering where the other side is coming from. While it is believable that the victim could be lying, do not criticize a mother for trying to make ends meet for her child. I issue a challenge-immerse yourself in poverty, live like this country's poor population docs for an extended period of time, then write another edito­rial about what you have learned. You might have a new per­spective. 
Greg Hiltz senwr 
oA~campus 
April27 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"[My teachers} were trying to beat me into being a ... dentist or a teacher. And the ... jans tried to beat me into being a Beatie or an Engelbert 1/umperdinck, and the critics tried to beat me into being Paul McCartney." 
John Lennon musician 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Tuesday, May 2, 2006 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Our own heroes 
I went to "United 93" on Friday night and I was pleased with three things. First, it was tastefully done in the format of a documentary rather than a Hollywood thriller. Second, 10 percent of the profits from opening weekend go to the memorial fund. Finally, the vast majority of the people in the theatre fit the age range of our generation. 
This is a generation in need of heroes. This movie allows our generation to come together with the spirit and resolve that we showed in the days after Sept. 11, 2001. The experience of those passengers gives our generation a sense of purpose. Flight 93 shows us that we have to take the fight to the enemies of freedom. or we will lose that freedom. The terrorists would have taken out a great symbol of our democracy that day in Washington if it wasn't for the courage of ordinary Americans on the flight. Just think what these terrorists could do with nuclear weapons instead of commercial airplanes. 
Flight 93 is also special to me because I was serving as a Senate page in the 
U.S. Capitol that day. There is not a day that goes by that I do not think of the heroes on Flight 93 and thank them for my life and the lives of my dear friends who worked with me. We went back to work in the Capitol on Sept. 12 and sent the message to the terrorists as 17 -year-olds that we would not be afraid. 
This movie is not meant to be popcorn-munching entertainment. We are still at war, yet some in our nation seem to be losing resolve. "United 93" is a timely reminder that we are still fighting the same war on terror that these heroes died fighting. 
The two previous generations achieved monumental tasks through much sac­rifice to preserve our freedoms. This is our task. This is our responsibility. We will move forward in the true spirit of the words of Flight 93 passenger Todd Beamer and win the War on Terror. "Let's roll!" 
Joe Kippley junior Siegfried Hall April30 
Let students decide 
I am quite happy to see debate occurring on this campus in regards to academic freedom stemming from University President Father John Jenkins' statement. Whether someone is sitting in a seminar class, attending a lecture or even discussing social issues in a small group, she must confront differing opinions. In such settings, it is essential to listen to and discuss the viewpoints in order to make informed deci­sions. One cannot remain passive and just assume that those in an administrative capacity will dictate how one is supposed to react. Fortunately, a top-tier school like Notre Dame has an administration that is dedicated to critical thinking by allowing discussion of various venues such as "The Vagina Monologues" and the Queer Film Festival. Granted, not everyone that watches the performance or attends a film screening will agree with what he sees, but a typical Notre Dame student should be of the caliber allowing him to formulate an objective opinion on the matter. 
If the University should bow to pressure from such reactionary views as those of Professor Charles Rice, then many Notre Dame students would be seriously be restricted in their viewpoints and only be further distanced from life outside the aca­demic bubble. One should be thankful that former University President Father Theodore Hesburgh stood up for academic freedom of expression by chartering the Land-of-Lakes statement in 1967 that gives schools the right to present and discuss issues in a serious and academic manner. It is through his encouragement that Notre Dame has become a top-tier school today that continues to strive for a balance between academic rigor and spiritual development. Those who believe that students are merely empty vessels that can be filled with any material and will automatically equate it with dogma seriously underestimate the academic potential of top-tier stu­dents like those attending Notre Dame. Students should be given the chance to hear multiple viewpoints and then decide for themselves which one is right. Thanks to the courage of Father Jenkins, students will continue to have these experiences in the future that will allow them to listen, reflect and then decide for themselves. 
Michael Foster alumnus class of 2005 April26 

The truth can never die 
It seems to me that some of my cherished colleagues may have missed the most important and most beautiful asser­tion in University President Father John Jenkins' closing statement: "Catholic teaching has nothing to fear from engaging the wider culture, but we all have something to fear ifthe wider culture never engages Catholic teaching .... Like any university, we have a responsibility to foster intel­lectual engagement with various perspectives and forms of knowledge, but as a Catholic university, we have the added responsibility of fostering engagement among these per­spectives and forms of knowledge with the Catholic intellec­tual tradition." In other words, a Catholic university is where Catholic tradition and teaching encounter everything that the world brings to us, and it is where everything that the world brings to us must encounter Catholic tradition and teaching. To pass over the second half of this assertion is I think gravely to misinterpret what Jenkins is telling us. 
If this reciprocal encounter is carried out-and Jenkins is telling us that it is our responsibility at Notre Dame to carry it out-we have nothing to fear. Indeed, fearlessness in the face of anything the world may bring is the mark of living in the truth. The Catholic university must be like Dante's Comedy: the pilgrim has to look at everything, touch every possible facet of human behavior and experi­ence, in his own journey toward understanding and divine love. Dante doesn't edit, ftlter, suppress, limit, silence. There is nothing he cannot confront, nothing he does not force his readers to confront, no matter how debased or vulgar or antithetical to all value. But Dante-and this is the key­makes every facet of human behavior and experience encounter Catholic revelation and understanding. Through that endlessly fruitful encounter, we begin to see through our self-deceptions and through some of the world's bewitching illusions; through that encounter we also begin to see more deeply into the light of revelation. As Jenkins says, citing Pope John Paul II: "grounded in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the Catholic intellectual tradition develops through this dialogue with culture." 
We tend to forget that is is not we who defend truth; Truth defends us. Truth is light: it does not need torchbear­ers. It sets out alone and lights its own way and ours. In the encounter with the world, truth cannot lose. Truth can never die. Untruth can never live; it is constantly dying, con­stantly on the way out, because it is not in harmony with the reality within which, from which, the world has its being. 
We also tend to forget that revelation is not an ideology; it is not a set of ideas. Revelation neither includes nor excludes anything. It transfigures all things, reveals their true sense and meaning and allows us freely to see and choose the path through the world, through all possibilities, that leads us to felicity, towards fulfilling the limitless poten­tial of what a human being is. 
I do not think my confidence in truth is misplaced. If the slight and ephemeral play that has so exercised our emo­tions in recent months encounters Catholic teaching and tradition -encounters it fully, genuinely -the Catholic understanding of the human person, in all its beauty, and depth and soul-beguiling sweetness, is not likely to be van­quished. It will not lose, in that encounter. If the play, on the other hand, should contain any glimmers of truth-and it may contain a few, and perhaps even more than a few, since it is supposed to be made from taped interviews with real human beings of varied conditions, as a record of their lived experience and of their pain-those glimmers of truth will emerge in the encounter, uncovering beauty in those lives, even in those strident words, and perhaps revealing another facet of the light of Catholic understand­ing bequeathed by tradition. What is untrue in the play, what derives from a shallow or lifeless understanding of self and the world, will be burned to grey ashes, seen to offer no life, no nourishment, no beauty, no truth. If, on the other hand, there should be any elements of untruth in Catholic teaching as it has been transmitted to us and as we trans­mit it to others -untruth based on limitations oflove and understanding that restrict our ability to receive the light of revelation -itis not impossible that those elements of untruth could themselves be burned to ashes in the light and challenge of the play. 
What is there to fear? Truth or revelation does not need a cudgel to enter the human heart, nor does it need to keep the world at bay in order to clear a space for itself. Truth is not in competition with the world. It transforms the world. The impulse to edit, silence, suppress, filter human experi­ence shows a trace of fear or defensiveness, an inability to encompass the entire world-the entire world-within the light of revelation, within the light of Chri<>tian love and understanding. lf we ourselves live in the truth, live the truth, we will know that it cannot fail. 
Christian Moeys associate professor of romance languages April27 
Faith has nothing to fear from reason 
Father Jenkins, thank you for reaffirming the spirit of the Land 
0' Lakes statement on Catholic universities and academic freedom. It meant everything to me in my vocation to this place as a noble experiment to have a top-notch Catholic university in a non­Catholic culture, and I believe your statement is a foundational component. Indeed, I am one of those, to paraphrase a rather uncharitable statement from your critics, who rejoiced most in your statement and care most about the Catholic identity of Notre Dame. 
There is one aspect of your reaffirmation that I haven't seen receive emphasis, and I believe it lies at the heart of a. University, the intellectual life of its professors, and the intel­lectual-religious lives of its students. If you allow me a biog­raphical reference, l was in my mid-20s in the Society of Jesus when I finally, with the help of wonderful Jesuit mentors and teachers (George Klubertanz, Hobert Henle and others in the Philosophate at St. Louis University) was able to dispel fear toward reason in the ratio-fides dialectic. Since then, I see the fides-ratio dialectic as vivifying, indeed salvific. 
Now, l bnlieve that your reaffirmation helps Notre Dame students 
-and hopefully eventually live -the proposition that faith has nothing to fear from reason, and neither do they. Grace builds on nature. Thus, students can live the dialectic fearlessly, even joyfully, and powerfully. To reason is to share in creation. My concern is that the critics of your reaffirmation are explicitly or implicitly telling Catholic students that they must 
fear reason and substitute obedience for it, that they as Catholic students are not to trust or be trusted with reason, and neither are the professors. I think the fides-obedientia axis is the concern of the Hierarchy; the fides-ratio axis is the concern of the University and of maturing intellects and consciences of students who then must think about the other axis. 
Thank you for continuing the noble experiment that I dis­cerned in former University President Father Theodore Hesburgh's vision for Notre Dame way back in 1968. 
Andy Weigert professor ofsociology May 1 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, May 2, 2006 


"~:,.. 
.r:::­
·­

The rising medium of video games 


Hoger Ebert once seoll"nd at video games, declaring thny are not a valid art li~rm. More toys than anything nlso, thny eould not compare to thn intrieatn art found within lilms or 
painting. 
Hecont history is proving him wrong. Vicino games are increasingly por­nwating our sodety down to its very nuances. From the big 

screen to the 
Mark 
small ones on 

Bemenderfer
cell phones, video games are Assistant making their Scene Editor digital prnsnncn known. When people c~an go watch Peter Jackson's remake of "King Kong," then play the digital monkey as soon as they exit the theater on their cell phones, the video game's cultural impaet becomes slightly more evident. 
Fans of video games have long dedared thnir passion an art, giving legitimacy to their favorite pastime. While the art wasn't as dear in the days of "Hobotron" and "Pong," it has bmm made inernasingly apparent in rnem1t years. Titles such as the con­temporary "Shadow of the Colossus" exhibit a dear sense of style and art, fnaturing dramatic vistas that typical­ly llourish in examples of high-class art. 
I lollywood has long reeogniznd the value of video games, but only recent­ly have they befm treated with a degrcm of respect. For those who have seen the "Super Mario Bros." movie or "Double Dragon," Hollywood's intentions towards video games was obvious-they were an easy way to cash in on an established fan base. 
People who played video games 
weren't the brightest bulbs in the 
drawer, so they didn't deserve a 
thoughtful picture. 
This mentality has changed signifi­cantly, especially within the past cou­ple of months. "Doom" represented a solid e!Tort on Hollywood's part to cre­ate a strong adaptation of the video game classic. Starring Karl Urban and the Hock, it was a science fiction action film that mimicked the art direction of the games, especially the "Doom III," incredibly well. While the result fell a little flat as-ironically -it tried to be more thoughtful than it's video game parent, it still repre­sented one of Hollywood's first attempts at treating video games seri­ously. 
Another interesting recent example was the teen horror film "Stay Alive." Starring a cast of relative no-names and that kid from "Malcolm in the Middle," it centered on a video game that killed the people who played it. While the idea isn't exactly original­being a mere mental leap from 'The Matrix" -it still directly addressed video games and proved them a legiti­mate medium for entertainment, despite the fact that only garners will killed during the unfortunate duration of the film. 
Once again, the actual results were less than stellar. "Stay Alive" was fair­ly universally panned, but if it had succeeded, it would have spawned a video game based on the movie. While video games based off of movies aren't original either, a video game based off' a game that played a central role within a movie would have set a new precedent. 
The most successful fllm to this date would be the recently released "Silent Hill." Featuring sights and sounds directly lifted from the game, it stands as a tribute to just how powerful gaming has become as a medium. While it can be argued that "Silent Hill" itself was based off of excellent movies, such as "Jacob's Ladder," just watching the movie adaptation is a visual treat and shows how far video games have come from their incep­tion. The mature themes and symbol­ic imagery reflect this evolution. 
Upcoming movies also hold a great deal of promise. For example, the "Halo" movie projected to be released in 2007 has big Hollywood names like Peter Jackson attached. Studios are looking at video games and realizing that they can make money if treated properly in film format. 
The simple truth is that garners have matured. The same garners who played "Super Mario Bros." nearly 20 years ago have grown up and are now creating their own games. With this comes a new sophistication to the medium, lending itself more credence as art. There are now schools that exist to teach how to craft video games. 
Films arguably became accepted as legitimate once schools were devel­oped that taught the craft, with Spielberg and Scorsese being famous examples of pioneers of film schools. 
Games have developed, especially in the latter part of the past decade. If current trends continue, their value as a medium represent­ing current society and art will be undeniable. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

VIdeo games have In the past been considered to lack artistic merit. Recent movies and video games have shown elements that lend themselves toward the contrary, as they are becoming an increasingly artistic medium. 

Facing 
College is a lot like the movies. I don't mean this to invite the easy parallels to movies like "Animal House," "Van Wilder" or "Old School." On a deeper level, going to the movies is similar to the entire college experience. In both cases, you go to a place removed from the real world and experience some­thing wonderful that only lasts for a short period of time. As is the case with both college and the movies, while you don't want the experience to end, you're also dying to find out what happens next. 
After four years of working for Scene, I might have a slightly warped perspective on just how much life and entertainment inter­act. The fact that I spend an inordi­nate amount of time watching E!, going to movies or attached to my iPod just makes entertainment the lens through which I view most of my life. This might explain why there are -for me, anyway -a number of parallels between my time at Notre Dame and my favorite film, the French import "Amelie." 
Beyond the obvious French con­nection between their names, the way I stumbled upon what would become two extremely important parts of my life is fairly similar. I was only vaguely aware of Notre Dame as a institution for higher learning, much in the same way that I was only vaguely aware of the existence of the film "Amelio" in America. 
Only by accident did I finally dis­cover both Notre Dame and "Amelie." I discovered Notre Dame when someone from my high school left his email address on my biology class whiteboard. I discov-
Movies and colleges have shared a long rAI::rth'"lnc::hlr'• even been described as being a movie, and for 
se 
erect "Amelie' turned on the house and len 
Molly Griffil 
Assistant Scene Editt 
impact my lifE the girl who football game of-the-mill " turn it into a 1 anything Notr fan. 
While the til little more sui Montmartrn­shot-when also managed random place. including the Les 2 Moulins. stumbled which seems the nature of 
Notre Dame managed to my life in spi downs. Notre our moments, commonplace I'm doing · sophomore yc1 
GRAHAM EBETSCH/Observer Graphic 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Tuesday, May 2, 2006 
page 11 

college's 

uel 
hen a friend ision at her e room inadver­movie on play t while I was wait­ing for her to 
return. 
In much the same way that Amelie (Audrey Tautou) isn't aware of the significance of the small tin box she finds hidden in her bathroom tile. I wasn't aware of just how much Notre Dame and the movie "Amelie" would 
I went from being 
never been to a 1 your typical, run­e me a topic, I will nversation about Dame" devout Irish 
's influence was a ued. I did stay in where the film was in France. I 
visit most of the featured in the film, ow) famous cafe I also, ironically, that by accident~ 
fitting giving 
of the Ty Willingham era of foot­ball, but it has survived. "Amelie," in spite of facing a barrage of new movies ~ and the fact that it is entirely in French with english subtitles~ has remained a con­stant favorite. 
While I will always be able to hunker down with my close com­panion "Amelie" thanks to the magic of DVDs, college isn't quite the same. While Notre Dame will always be here and I can technical­ly become a double, triple, quadru­ple Domer through the magic of graduate school, being an under­graduate is a once-in-a-lifetime experience. The ultimate question, then, is this ~ If college is like the movies, then where does that leave a graduating senior like me and many others? 
If movies have taught us any­thing, it is that just because a movie is over doesn't mean it's the end. Film franchises like "Star Wars," "Harry Potter" and "The Chronicles of Narnia" have shown us that there is another way to go for sequel that opportunities beyond the original. The story can continue in a sequel, and while the bad guys tend to get scarier and the plot gets a little hairier, some­times sequels can be better than the original. All that we can do is hope that life in the real world, the sequel to college, will turn out to be a "Spider-Man 2" instead of sinking into a lowly "Deuce Bigelow: European Gigolo." 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgrifjin@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
GRAHAM EBETSCH/Observer Graphic 
that shows the two as being nearly inseparable. College has rting seniors, the nature of the sequel is still to determined. 

American 
ln some countries, Kings and Queens still exist and reign, not as political leaders, but as figureheads-glam­orous representations of the country's culture. Here in the states, on the other hand, we like to remember how we spiritedly defied the blue­blooded grip of the British monarchy during the Revolutionary War. However, while our current governing body is free from royalty, our culture cer­tainly is not. 
Reigning from their estates in the high hills of Hollywood, the Kings and Queens of our culture are celebrities. In addition to informing us of the latest trends and keeping us entertained while we wait in line at the grocery market, the celebrities of today represent American ideals with their seemingly flawless looks and flagrant displays of wealth. While celebrities possess no substantial power over government (sorry, Martin Sheen) their latest films, songs and scandals act as virtual ambassadors of our culture, communicating to other nations what it means to be American. 
like royalty they are worshipped. Their touch is of King Midas' caliber as they turn everything they endorse to gold. Thirteen-year-old girls construct shrines in their bedrooms as a tribute to their favorite boy bands and hunky young stars. We are humbled as the Prince and Princesses of Hollywood condescend to sign autographs, and with the appetite of paupers, we hun­grily devour any scrap of celebrity gos­sip we can get our hands on. 


royalty 
However, America's kings and queens deviate from the rest of the world's most regal in various ways. For instance, in many cases royalty is called nobility, but we don't make that mistake with our royal family. 
Instead of destroying celebrity careers, stints in rehab, scandalous pregnancies, affairs and mental melt­downs seem to be just the ticket, espe­cially ifthey gamer an exclusive inter­view with Barbara Walters or Oprah Wmfrey. Sadly, celebrities are presently marked more by mediocrity and lucky breaks than any shred of nobility. 
Britney Spears epitomizes this new, essential feature to maintaining fame. After all, despite not having released any albums recently, she continues to bask in the limelight created by her marriage to wife-beater-clad Kevin Federline and her recent pregnancies. Then again, given the consistent quality of the music she does produce, perhaps we should be thanking Kevin for keep­ing Britney otherwise occupied. 
Additionally, it has become more lucrative to be a pseudo-celebrity than to become famous by displaying any merit. Less and less talent is required to achieve stardom. Where talent once led to fame which led to fortune, today heiresses like Paris Hilton and Nicole Richie work backwards, transforming their inherited fortune into fame. Fortunately, they have yet to prove that talent can be bought. 
The explosion of reality television has also created a new breed of pseudo­celebrity. Reality stars have effectively prolonged their 15 minutes parlaying their small, often humiliating stints into lifetime visibility ~ ifnot entire careers -these stars now pepper television programs and C-list movies. 
Working against natural selection, reality television has also provided opportunities for otherwise washed-up or terminally second-tier celebrities. It used to be that after a star had outlived her moment in the spotlight and was outshone by more vivacious starlets, she would quietly retire to her man­sion, placated by royalties. Unfortunately, survival of the fittest seems to be wilting in the presence of reality television shows that specifically feature has-beens and never-quite­have-been stars, reviving and jump­starting their careers. 
Sure there are no tea taxes involved, but all this considered, I can't help but feel a little like the Colonial Americans must have when they decided to break with King George. 
Perhaps, our current culture calls for us to revolt against today's reigning royalty with a good old-fashioned coup­d'etat. Alternatively, we could simply stop elevating talent-less figureheads, who have very little to contribute to us, to fame-after all they're just people. Otherwise, in a few years we might find ourselves sorry to see this ridiculous cycle of over-glorification continue. 
With all of the stars that stand on the brink of insanity today, I shudder to think what we will be subjected to once their careers inevitably crumble. It's probably only a matter of time before we're watching Kasey Kasem, some guy from "The Amazing Race", and Lindsay Lohan shack up together in "The Surreal life: 20" while Tom Cruise hosts "Cooking with Cruise: 50 Ways to Prepare the Placenta". 
Then again, it could be worse. After all, without our country's colorful court of celebrities, standing in line at the supermarket would be awfully boring. 
Contact Mary Squillace at msquilla@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

GRAHAM EBETSCH/Observer Graphic Pseudo-celebrities, and outlandish real ones, make up America's royalty. While they have an influential place in society, their fame can be bought or extended through artifical means, increasing their time In the spotlight. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, May 2, 2006 
MLB 
Yankees lose in Damon's return to Fenway 
Hudson delivers second one-hitter of career in 2-0 victory 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -David Ortiz hit a thrnn-run homnr to ruin .Johnny Damon's rPturn to Fnnway !'ark. lnading the Boston Bnd Sox over the New York Yanknns 7-3 Monday 
-night in thn lirst gamn of the snason bntween tlw two rivals. Fans chanted ".Johnny! .Johnny!" af'tnr thn Yanknns center fielder watched hnlp­lnssly from a fnw feet away as Ortiz's II th horner sailed into tlw H n d Sox b ull p n n i n t h n eighth. l>arnon couldn't do much with the previous batter eithor. lin could only trot in to pick up Mark Lorntta's single that brokn a tin in thn four-run inning. Boond nach tirnn hn came to tlw plato, Damon. who boltnd to thn othnr sidn of baseball's biggnst rivalry as a fn~e agent. went 0-for-4. It was a bad night for anoth­
or former Hml Sox player. Mike Myors, Boston's lefty spoeialist last year, entered the game af'tnr the single by Loretta, who had been in a 1-for-17 slump, and gave up Ortiz's drive on a full count into a strong wind. 
Another returning player who had a morn pleasant night was Boston eateher Doug Mirabelli, reacquired narlier Monday from San Diego where he had been traded for Loretta last Decnmber. Boston obtainnd him to resume his role as knucklnballer Tim Wakefield's pnrsonal catcher after .Josh Bard. who went to the Padres, had 10 passnd balls in Wakefield's four previ­ous starts. 
Mirabelli also went 0-for-4 but didn't havP a passed ball and threw out a runner trying to steal. 
Mike Timlin (3-0) got the win with help from Jonathan Papelbon, who retired the side in order in the ninth with two strikeouts. Aaron Small (0-1) took thn loss after going 10-0 for the Yankoes last soason. 
Before the game, Damon, who spent the past four sea­sons with Boston, said, ''I'm 

AP 
Braves' pitcher Tim Hudson throws a pitch Monday during the first Inning of the Braves' 2-0 win over the Rockies. 
just really excited about taking the field" and he wasn't nerv­
ous. 
Braves 2, Rockies 0 
Tim Hudson gave up a hit to the opposing pitcher, which was bad 1mough. 
It stung even more when that turned out to be the only hit of the game by the Colorado Hockies. 
Hudson threw the second one-hitter of his career, lead­ing the Atlanta Braves past the Hoekies with a dominating per­formance that was marred only by Jason Jennings' single 
with  two  outs  in  the third  
inning.  
"That's  kind  of tough  to  

take," said Hudson, who also drove in the Braves' first run. "He's probably one of the bet­ter-hitting pitchers out there. but he's still a pitcher. lie's only coming up once every five days. It would have been bet­ter if it was a cleanup hitter. I could have stomaehed that one better." 
Not that Hudson (2-2) was complaining too much. Not after the way he started the season, lasting only four innings in each of his first two starts. lie gave up 14 hits, walked six and was charged with 11 earned runs in those outings. 
Hudson credited first-year pitching coach Roger McDowell with making a slight change in the right-hander's delivery, which is producing big results. He threw a three-hitter against the New York Mets on April 1CJ, and was even more dominating against the top-hitting team in the NL. 
''I'm getting a lot more down­ward movement instead of side to side. That side-to-side stuff gets hit a long way," said Hudson, who is throwing with more of an overhand motion. "It's not rocket seienee. It was just a little bitty adjustment, but that's all it took." 
Hudson retired the last 17 Colorado hitters, needing just 40 pitches after the fifth inning. lie threw 103 pitches overall -6(> for strikes. 
"lie had a lot of good things going on tonight," Hockics managor Clint Hurdle said. "lie worked both sides of the plate. He was never behind in the count." 
Afterward in the Braves' clubhouse, catcher Brian 
McCann donned a T-shirt that said "I Rode Bodacious For Nine" -a reference to the wicked movement Hudson can get on his pitches, especially his sinker. 
"His ball is so tough to catch," McCann said. 
Cubs 2, Pirates 1 
Matt Murton's HBI single in the eighth inning gave the Chicago Cubs a victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates on Monday night. 
With the score tied 1-1, John Grabow (0-1) issued a two-out walk to Todd Walker. Salomon Torres replaced him and gave up an infield single to Aramis Ramirez. Murton then singled up the middle past a diving Jack Wilson to score Jerry Hairston Jr, who was running for Walker, from second. 
The Pirates dropped to 1-13 on the road and 7-20 overall. 
Bob Howry (2-0), the second of three Chicago pitchers, worked 2-3 of an inning for tlw win. Hyan Dempster pitched the ninth for his seventh save in as many chances. lie extended his club rneord to 25 straight, dating to last season. 

Cubs rookie starter Sean Marshall gave up just one hit in his lirst six innings, throw­ing 57 pitches in that span. The 6-foot-7 Marshall, trying to start 3-0, gave up one run and four hits in 7 1-3 innings, his longest outing of the sea­son. lie struck out live, walknd one and threw 91 pitches. 
Wilson and Jason Bay hit consecutive singles to lead off the seventh for thn Pirates. Wilson moved to third by senmingly avoiding third base­man Hamirez's tag on a grounder by Craig Wilson. Hamirnz thought he tagged Jack Wilson with his glove and threw Bay out at seeond. Aftl~r arguments from Hamirez and Cubs manager Dusty Baker, Wilson then scored on a groundout from .Joe Randa to tie thn gamn at 1-1. 
Marshall walked Honny Paulino and .Josn Castillo before striking out pinch-hitter Chris Duffy in the eighth. Marshall left a standing ova­tion. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifleds must he prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Highly motivated, ethical/socially responsible, entrepreneurial, go-getters with desires to make a meaningful 1mpact on transforming the international business world while making a large amount of $$$$. I am an alum based in Jackson Hole and am looking for students for part time. full time. or summer employment to work for commission. Can work from home. www.effectiveexecutive­coaching.com 
Summer Job. Local family seeking nanny for 1 yr. old boy. Hours are flexible, approx. 20 hrs/wk. References required. 574-271­0747. 
SUMME.R WORK $15.50 base­appt. FT/PT schedules,customer sales/service,no experience neces­sary, all ages 17 & older, conditions apply. Call Now. Start After Finals! South Bend/Elkhart 574-273-3835 Indianapolis 317-253-2734 Fort Wayne 260-492-9159 Bloomington 812-330-1104 Evansville 812-477­2702 Lafa~ette 765-449-41 00 
FoR SALE 
Retail/Office Space For Lease 1800 SF at $10 PSF NNN on SR 23 east of Ironwood, Near NO. Contact Grubb & Ellis/Cressy & Everett, Noah Davey 574-271-4060 
Large 2br apt. near ND. Starting at $595. Call 277-9372. 
Office Space For Lease 1733 SF at $1000 Per Month NNN. Walking Distance to NO. Contact Grubb & Ellis/Cressy & Everett, Tony Davey 574-271-4060. 
Large house for rent. 18285 Dunn Rd. Walk to class @ NO. 4 huge bedrooms, 3 full baths. Huge fenced yard. Call 317-431-9508 
4 BR, 1.5 BA. fenced back yard. <2 mi. to NO. 428 Preston. $795/mo. 269-663-2299. 
4 bdrm.2.5 baths house. Call Judy 574-298-6217. 
3-6 BDRM HOMES.$195/PER PERSON MO. WALK TO ND.06/07 OR SUMMER. 574-329-0308 
Room available anytime but 1st renter gets 1st month free. $350/mo. Beautiful & very clean home. Close to ND. Parking available. Call Bill 574-246-0872 or cell 574-386-7272. 
2 BDRM HOME. $590 M0.272-6306 1bdrm apt. 1 mitoND. Laundry,security,quiet historic neighborhood. $600/mo. Call 283-0325. 
2 Houses for rent. 3 bdrm house at $900. 4 bdrm at $1200. 1 mile from ND. Call 277-1875. 
6 bdrm/2 bth house. Partial turn. $1000/mo + util. Call Pat 574-784­3377 11 a.m.-3:30 (1.m. 


TICKETS 
I WOULD LIKE TO BUY YOUR FOOTBALL SEASONTIX. PLEASE CALL 277-1659. 
FoR RENT 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. I I you or someone you I ove needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC at 631-7819. For more information. see our bi­weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Thanks, Ken, for stealing my 
chicken wings. Steely Dan Sucks. That's right, I said it. 
I'm so hungry. They were like bags of sand. And by the way, Rikki did lose that 
number. Lauren got a wonderful present. So how 'bout that Damon. You 
deserved every second of it. 
Kenneth can think of nothing creative. I am shocked. Mind Erasers? Name the time and 
place. and I will defend my title. Honesly, how did Steely Dan win a Grammy a few years back? 
.----~------------------------------­




OUND THE NATION 

Tuesday, May 2, 2006 
NCAA Baseball Top 25 
No. team ·record prev. 
1 Rice 39-9 2 2 North Carolina 39-8 3 3 Nebraska 36-6 4 4 Cal Slate-Fullerton 33-11 1 5 Oregon State 32·10 5 6 Alabama 34-13 6 7 Texas 31-15 7 8 Clemson 33-13 9 9 Oklahoma 35-11 10 10 NOTRE DAME 35-9 12 11 Kentucky 34-11 13 12 South Carolina 32-12 14 13 Virginia 38-10 20 
14 Arkansas 31-14 11 15 Houston 31-16 19 16 Georgia Tech 33·12 8 17 Florida State 35-11 15 18 Mississippi 30·15 23 19 College of Charleston 33-10 17 20 Arizona State 29-16 16 21 Pepperdine 30·16 NR 22 Washington 30·16 NR 23 Vanderbilt 27-18 21 24 Miami 29-16 NR 25 Old Dominion 35·8 25 
NCAA Women's Softball Top25 
No. team record prev. 
1 UCLA 36-4 1 2 Texas 45-5 2 3 Arizona 34-8 3 4 Alabama 40-7 4 5 Stanford 33-10 5 6 Tennessee 47-6 1 7 AriZona State 41·7 8 8 California 38-8 6 9 Oregon State 33-7 9 10 LSU 44-7 11 11 Georgia 46-11 ': 10 12 La.·LafayeHe 39-8 13 13 Michigan 31·12 12 14 Northweshnn 33-19 16 15 Washington 29-15 14 16 Nebraska 35-8 15 17 TetasA&M 32·13 ·..···. 11 18 Baylor 33-17 19 19 Auburn 31-13 18 20 Fresno State 31-13 20 21 North Carolina 46·13 22 22 louisville 30-8 23 23 Oklahoma 29-18-1 21 24 San Diego State 27·8 NR 25 Virginia Tech 33-14 NR 

NCAA Women's Softball Big East Conference 
team conf. overall 
NOTRE DAME 14-2 34-15 USF 14-2 44-21 Louisville 11·3 33-8 Syracuse 15-7 34-20 Providence 11-9 29·16 DePaul 9·9 27·19 Pittsburgh 10-12 29-26 St. John's 8-10 28·24 Seton Hall 6·12 28-24 Connecticut 6-14 19-28 Rutgers 4·14 12·34 Villanova 2·16 13-34 
around the dial 
NBA 
Chicago at Miami, 8 p.m., TNT LA Lakers at Phoenix, 10:30 p.m., TNT Indiana at New Jersey, 7 p.m., NBATV Sacramento at San Antonio, 9:30 p.m., NBATV 
MLB 
Chicago White Sox at Cleveland, 12 p.m., ESPN 
CoMPJLED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NHL 

EDMONTON, Alberta­The Edmonton Oilers sent home the NHL's best team in the regular season, ral­lying Monday night to beat the Detroit Red Wings 4-3 and win the first round playoff series in six games. 
Ales Hemsky scored twice, including the win­ner with 1:06 left in regu­lation time, capping a comeback from a 2-0 deficit after two periods. It was Edmonton's first play­off series win since 1998 -and another huge early­round disappointment for Detroit. 
Fernando Pisani also 
Johan Franzen, Henrik Zetterberg and Robert Lang scored for the Red Wings. 
The Oilers tied it 3-3 on a power play, when the puck deflected off Edmonton's Shawn Horcoff to Hemsky at the side of the net. He whacked away at the puck, then Wings defenseman Nicklas Lidstrom pushed Hemsky into the net. The puck went in, too, and the play went under video review to determine if the puck was kicked in. 
After a lengthy delay, officials eventually award­ed Hemsky the goal with 
Franzen flicked in a rebound at 10:07 of the third period to put the Red Wings ahead 3-2. Pisani had tied it 2-2 when he deked goalie Manny Legace and scored with a shot through the left side at 6:40 of the third. 
Pisani's power-play goal 
2:56 into the third period brought the Oilers within 2-1. 
The Red Wings con­trolled the second period, outshooting the Oilers 17­
2. Steve Yzerman set up Lang's power-play goal to make it 2-0. Red Wings captain Yzerman sat out the previous two games 
Yzerman's point moved him ahead of Bryan Trottier into eighth spot with 185 career playoff points. 
Zetterberg got the Red Wings a 1-0 lead late in the first period, when the Oilers outshot Detroit 15­
10. The forward scored six times this series. 
The Red Wings have lost in the first two rounds of the last three playoffs. 
The Oilers' last postsea­son victory was in seven games over Colorado. Detroit finished the season with 124 points, 11 more than any other team. Edmonton had 95. 
IN BRIEF 
Duke committee suggests
reinstatement of lax team 
DUHI-IAM, N.C.-A Duke University committee recommended Monday that the school's lacrosse team resume play next season, but said the team needed strict monitoring because of a history of problems tied to alcohoL 
"Although the pattern of miscon­duct in recent years by the lacrosse team is alarming, the evidence reviewed ... does not warrant sus­pension of the sport," a committee of seven faculty members wrote in a report. 
Duke suspended the highly ranked lacrosse team from play last month, following allegations that a black woman was raped and beaten by three white men at a team party where she had been hired to strip. 
A grand jury has indicted two play­ers on charges of rape, kidnapping and sexual assault, and District Attorney Mike Nifong has said he 
hopes to charge a third person.Daly discusses gambling
debts in new book: 
John Daly says he has lost between $50 million and $60 million during 12 years of heavy gambling and that it has become a problem that could "flat-out ruin me" if he doesn't bring it under controL 
Daly discussed his addiction to gambling in the final chapter of his autobiography, "John Daly: My Life In and Out of the Rough," to be released next Monday. 
He told one story of earning $750,000 when he lost in a playoff to Tiger Woods last fall in San Francisco at a World Golf Championship. Instead of going home, he drove to Las Vegas and says he lost $1.65 million in five hours playing mostly $5,000 slot machines. 
"If I don't get control of my gam­bling, it's going to flat-out ruin me," he says in the book, co-written with Glen Waggoner and published by HarperCollins.Palace brawl instigator
sentenced to 30 days m jail 
ROCHESTER HILLS, Mich. -----, The man accused of throwing the cup that sparked a 2004 brawl between the Indiana Pacers and Detroit Pistons fans was sentenced Monday to 30 days in jail on an assault and battery charge. 
John Green also was sentenced to two years' probation. The 41-year­old Green was convicted in March of one count of assault and battery for punching former Pacers player Hon Artest during the brawl at The Palace of Auburn Hills. Green was found not guilty of a second count of throwing the cup before Artest charged into the stands. 
Judge Lisa Asadoorian ordered Green to attend anger management classes and Alcoholics Anonymous meetings and stay away from the Palace while he is on probation. 
page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, May 2, 2006 
MEN'S GOLF 
Irish wait to hear where they'll go 
By JOE QUINN Sports Writer 
For the third straight year, Notre Dame won't have to worry about being on the bubble for the NCAA tournament, as the team secured an automatic berth to one of three regionals with a come-from-behind victo­ry in the Big East championship. 
Now all the Irish can do is wait and sec where the selection committee sends them. 
Notre Dame's most likely des­tination is the Central Regional, which is scheduled for May 18­20 in Chardon, Ohio. If the Irish aren't selected for the Central Hegional, they will travel to either the East Regional in Orlando, Fla. or the West Hegional in Tucson, Ariz. For Notre Dame coach Jim Kubinski, it's not where the Irish play, it's how they play. 
"We had some stretches were we didn't play our A-game," Kubinski said. "I think we finally were able to play our best golf in the Big East championship, and hopefully we can keep that going." 
If the Irish hope to continue their hot streak, they will most likely need continued stellar play from both freshman Josh Sandman and senior tri-captain Mark Baldwin. Baldwin was one of four Notre Dame golfers that shot under par in the final round of the Big East champi­onship. Sandman was the over­time hero -sinking a birdie to give the Irish a two-stroke cush­ion. 
"Mark had an excellent I Big East! tournament, and Josh has been just outstanding the past month or so," Kubinski said. ''I'm really confident that both these guys can keep playing at the level they've been playing at, and if they can do that, we'll be in good shape." 
Fortunately for Baldwin and Sandman, the burden of reach­ing the NCM tinals for the first time since 1966 does not rest squarely on their shoulders. 
Senior Scott Gustafson and jun­ior Cole lsban have also taken much of the responsibility upon themselves. 
"Cole, along with Josh was the most outstanding golfer over the past month," Kubinski said. "The fact that he was overshad­owed by Mark [in the Big East championshipJ just proves how well Mark was able to play. If he plays like I know he can play, Cole will be right up [at the top of the leader board) when all is said and done," Kubinski said. Gustafson struggled at times this year, but according to Kubinski, he has started to come around over the past month. 
"Scott has really been playing well," Kubinski said. "He had some trouble, but he's been striking the ball extremely well and I don't doubt that he won't be playing his A-game come May 18." 
If Kubinski can get all his players to play up to their abili­ty, he feels they have a good shot of advancing. At the same time, however, he knows it will not be easy as the Irish will face their toughest competition of the season. 
"In the NCAAs, it's really the best of the best," he said. "It's going to be a challenge to advance, but right now I think we're playing as well as anyone in the country." 
Fresh off their Big East come­back victory over Louisville, the Irish were named Golfweek National Team of the Week. But Kubinski emphasized the award meant nothing once the Irish stepped onto the course, 
"We're very honored to be recognized like that, but at the same time, we still have to go out and play," Kubinski said. "They're not going to give us the finals birth just because we were named Golfweek Team of the Week. We just have to go out and compete against -and hopefully beat -the best teams in the country." 
Contact Joe Quinn at jquinn6@nd.edu 
NBA PLAYOFFS 
Pistons take series lead vvith vvin 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE The Milwaukee Bucks kept missing shots and mishandling the ball. Chauncey Billups kept hitting free throws. 
Billups was 16-of-16 from the foul line and scored 34 points to send the Pistons back to Detroit with a 3-1 series lead, beating Milwaukee 109-99 in the first round of the NBA playoffs Monday night. 
The Pistons can finish off the Bucks with a victory in Game 5 Wednesday night in Detroit. 
The Bucks had taken an 86­85 lead on Joe Smith's jump shot with 5:52 remaining in the game. But the Pistons answered with an 8-0 run, including back-to-back 3­pointers by Billups and Richard Hamilton, to put Detroit ahead 93-86 with 3:47 remaining. 
The Pistons led 95-90 when Antonio McDyess was whistled for a technical foul -Detroit's second technical of the game -with 2:42 remaining. 
Milwaukee's Michael Redd made the free throw and was fouled on the ensuing posses­sion, hitting another two free throws to cut the Pistons' lead to 95-93 with 2:29 remaining. 
But six straight free throws by Billups, combined with missed shots and mishandled balls by the Bucks, allowed the Pistons to put away the game. 
Redd led the Bucks with 33 points, including 15 in the first half to lead all scorers. The Pistons held Redd to 11 points in the first game of the series, but the Bucks' leading scorer had 40 in Saturday's victory in Milwaukee. 
Milwaukee took a 76-74 lead into the fourth quarter thanks to 16 third-quarter points by T.J. Ford, but Ford picked up his fourth foul with 
1:41 remaining in the period. 
Billups kept pace with Ford for most of the quarter, scor­ing 11 points. 
The Pistons led by as many as 15 in the first half, but the Bucks made a run as Hasheed Wallace was whistled for a technical foul, his second of the postseason, after com­plaining about a foul call in the second quarter. 
Redd hit the free throw, and Toni Kukoc hit a 3-pointer on the ensuing possession. A fast-break layup by Charlie Bell cut the Pistons' lead to 44-38. 
Notes: 
+Wallace led the league in technical fouls with 19 in the regular season. He also was called for a technical in Game 1.... Hamilton was fined $15,000 by the NBA on Monday for elbowing Redd in the mouth during Saturday's game. The league upgraded the flagrant foul from a penal­ty one to a more severe level two. "Hopefully, I can talk to someone," Hamilton said. "$15,000? I don't understand that one." ... The Bucks had nine turnovers in the first half, including five by Ford. 



STUDY DATES AND TIIVIES: lVIay 4, 5, 6: 7am t"o 3:00am lVIidnight" Snacks! lVIay 7-11: 7am t"o 3:00am Finals VVeei<O: lVIay 8-11 Rooi'HS availabLe ex:cep' •vhen scheduLed by 
~he Regi.,;aar·'s €#ice­
1VIay 12 DeBart-olo Hall closes 30 minut-es af"t"er last" scheduLed exam t-hrough t-he Regist"rar"s Of"fice. 
lVIidnight" Snacks available during St-udy days. See BuiLding SupporL PersonneL ifyou have specific needs.-Roonz 103, 104_ 
DELUXE FOOTBALL PACKAGE 
Notre Dame vs. USC Nov. 25th, 2006 
Only 200 Reserv<ltions Avail<lble! 
•2 GAME TICKETS 
•2 
AIRLINE TICKETS (AAJ O'HARE TO LAX 

•2 r\IGHTS HOTEL RESERVATIOf'\S 

•GROLND 
TRAVH TO/FROM COUSFUM 


•CAHRED RALLY THE fRIDAY 
NIGHT BEFORE THE GMv1E 
TotaIPackage: 
$2,650 per reS€rvation 
(Check or Cashi 
GO IRISH! 

Coleman-.M:orse: 
1 s1: Floor Lounge 7:00am-4am daily. 
2"d floor 7am-3am Same da-tes as list-ed above. 
Al""ays! Free Snacks! 
~hi 
~ 
O'Shaughnessy 
STLJDV DATES AND TllVIES: lVIay 4,. 5,. 6: 8:00am t"o 1:OOam lVIay 7: 1:OOpm -to 1:OOam 
Finals VVeek: JVIay 8-11 Roon7.... avail~,obLe 5:00pm-3:00am ex:cep~ 
..vhen scheduLed by ~he Regisaar•s £?Ui.Ce. 
Rooms: 106,. 107,. 114, 115,. 116, 117,. 118,. 204., 206, 207, 208, 209. 
'~ Good Luck _.-it:h Finals t~ 
...~~~ecial ~hank.'fl l#.l Busine.:tNf/ r~peralions~ L ....czrnpus Niinisrr_v and Che ..~il"rudenr Union Hoc.1rd. 
,-------------------------------------­
~-­
Tuesday, May 2, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
Mavericks sweep Grizzlies in series 
Associated Press 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. -The Dallas Mavericks wanted to get this one over quickly. They sure picked the right opponent. 
Dirk Nowitzki had 27 points and Josh Howard had 24 to lead the Mavericks over the Grizzlies 102-76 on Monday, Dallas' first best-of-seven sweep and an NBA-record 12th consecutive playoff loss for Memphis. 
The Mavericks will face the winner of the San Antonio­Sacramento series, which is tied at two games apiece, in the Western Conference semifmals. 
"You always want to close it out when you have the chance," Nowitzki said. "We have some guys with some injuries, but I think we 'II be all right in the second round." 
Nowitzki, who averaged 32.7 points in the first three games, was 12-of-21 from the floor and made all three of his 3-point shots, while Howard was 9-of­
17. Howard had nine rebounds. 
Pau Gasol led Memphis with 25 points and Mike Miller scored 10. They were the only Grizzlies in double figures. 
The Grizzlies were swept for the third time in three consecu­tive playoff appearances, and fans began filing out of FedExForurn early in the final period. Announced attendance was 15,104. The Grizzlies put a sellout at 18,119. 
The Grizzlies already had the longest losing streak of any playoff team before a first post­season victory. The previous record of 11 consecutive playoff losses was set by Baltimore and matched by Denver. 
Memphis was swept in the first round by Phoenix last year and San Antonio the year before. 
Dallas also got 19 points from Jerry Stackhouse and 12 from Jason Terry. 
Dallas began pulling away in the third period and went up 62-47 following an 11-4 run that was sparked by two 3­pointers by Nowitzki and steals by Nowitzki and Terry. Gasol lost the ball during the Dallas run when he bounced the ball off his foot on a dribble. 
Though trailing Dallas from early in the first period, the Grizzlies stayed close until the final minutes of the half when Memphis turnovers helped the Mavericks launch a 10-4 run to break for intermission with a 48-39lead. 
Gasol, who had 19 points in the half, committed an offensive foul late in the second period leading to a 22-foot jumper by Howard. Less than a minute later, Gasollost the ball by trav­eling and Shane Battier fouled Howard outside the arc, setting up three foul shots for Dallas. Howard, who led Dallas with 15 points in the half, hit them all. 
As they did in their overtime loss in Game 3, the Grizzlies started with an energy that was missing in both games in Dallas. 
Gasol led all scorers in the first quarter, going 4-of-6 for 12 points. Nowitzki and Howard each had eight points for the Mavericks, who ended the peri­od up 26-23. 

Men's crew sweeps eight-man races versus Northwestern 
Special to the Observer 
The curtain came down this weekend on the Notre Dame ultimate club as its season ended at the Great Lakes Regional. 
The Irish women's squad, champions of the Illinois/Indiana sectional, opened pool play against Western Illinois. After trad­ing the first two points down­wind, the Irish took control and dominated the Leathernecks, winning 15-4. Notre Dame continued its roll with another 15-4 victo­ry over Indiana.· 
The Irish next played Michigan State for the right to advance to the champi­onship bracket. Although MSU struck first, Notre Dame tied the score at 2-2 and then went on to rout the Spartans 15-3. Aggressive defense and smart passes from Shannon Morrison highlighted the team's play. 
The Irish next faced Ohio State in the quarterfinals. The two squads traded downwind points as neither could build a lead. Notre Dame narrowly edged the Buckeyes, 12-11. 
In the semifinals, the Irish squared off with Ohio. Despite disc movement among Chrissy Hedges, Lizzy Shiel and Rachel Meeks;-the Irish were unable to convert on the upwind point. Chris Dube played her best game 
CLUB SPORTS 
Ultitnate ends season at regionals 
Lunch and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Thursday, May 4 12:00 -1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 

The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal lunch at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone IS welcome and confidentiality IS assured. 
Lunch will be served 
COR£ COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN
STUDENTS 
of the season, scoring both a Callahan and laying out for the score on offense. 
In the end, however, it was­n't quite enough, as Notre Dame dropped a close match, 15-14, ending the women's season at 20-6. 
The men's squad opened play against Northern Ohio and after a slow start, limit­ed their opponents to only one second half score. In second round action, the No. 4-seed Irish tangled with No. 5-seed Northwestern, and Notre Dame won, 15-5. 
This proved to be the squad's high point, as the Irish dropped two closely contested matches to Michigan State and Michigan, losing the latter match 13-12 on the last play of the game. 
Sailing 
Wisconsin hosted the MCSA Coed Qualifiers this week­end. 
Notre Dame finished fifth in both the A and B divisions, while Minnesota and the host Badgers qualified for nation­als. 
Paul Cordes, Chris May and Carlos Abisambra raced in the A division for the Irish, while Tim Roi, Jacqueline Chase, Catherine Hoodecheck and May com­peted in the B division. 
Michigan and Northwestern finished third and fourth, respectively. 
The next six spots in order were Ohio, Michigan State, Purdue, St. Thomas, Illinois and Iowa. 
Men's Rowing 
In a fitting completion to the duel-racing season, the men's crew team ~wept the eight-man races against Northwestern on the "straight and narrow" Skokie Canal in Chicago. 
Saturday's racing was on the man-made Skokie, which was perfectly straight over the 2000m course, and only wide enough to fit two racing shells. The race tested the ability of the Irish coxswains, who had to negotiate obsta­cles while avoiding contact with the competing boat and the shore. 
The only loss of the day came in the first race as Chip Brady's lightweight crew of Craig Wiborg, Tomas Castillo, Dan Murphy and PJ McAward was defeated by a Northwestern four-man crew by a margin of 6:57.7 to 
7:07.8. The same four fin­ished the day by defeating Marquette's crew in a closely contested race. The final margin was just over a boat­length, as the Notre Dame crew won 7:34.0 to 7:37.2. 
Notre Dame's novice eight defeated Northwestern's two best novice boats. In the first race, Bryce Chung's crew of Andrew Matasic, Tom Mazzacavallo, Brendan McNutt, Ray Schleck, Rob Bowen, Johann deSousa, Taylor Donaldson and Matt Degnan defeated Northwestern's top novice crew by a margin of 6:34.7 to 
6:49.1. The Irish novice faced Northwestern's second crew later in the day and won 6:27.4 to 7:00.1 in a race that was decided early. 
The most competitive race of the day was between the Irish's second varsity eight and Northwestern's "light­weight" eight. Julie Lambe coxed the crew of Scotty Campbell, Michael Lucci, Michael Lutkus, William Blosky, Brandon Carroll, Michael Giordano, Nick Kluesner and Andrew Baker to a come from behind victo­ry against the Northwestern crew. Only shortly before the race, the same Notre Dame crew was coxed by Radhika Deva in a preliminary race against Notre Dame's first varsity crew. 
With Lambe against Northwestern, the Irish crew made a strong move in the middle of the race to take the lead and gradually inched their way into the lead. With 250 meters to go, the Notre Dame crew pulled away with a sprint to finish with open water on the Northwestern crew, 6:22.4 to 6:26.4. 
The Irish's top crew also bested the Wildcat competi­tion. Julie Lambe coxed the first varsity eight in both the preliminary race against Notre Dame's second varsity eight and in the race against Northwestern's first varsity eight. Throughout the season the first varsity eight has set the standard for the Irish crews by being stronger than the competition in the second half of the race. 
Against Northwestern, however, Lambe's crew of Teddy Hawks, Nick Mathew, Jake Teitgen, Karol Grzesiak, Evan Donoghue, Steve Maher, Kane Pithey and Nick Catella took the lead in the first 500 meters and main­tained a solid lead on Northwestern throughout the race. The final margin was fairly close at 6:20.7 to 6:27.2, but the Irish crew controlled the race through­out. 
AA MINI WAREHOUSE 8: STORAGE 
3 Convenient Locations for Your Storage Needs Call us TODAY/ 
5510 Shaugn St 816 E McKinley Ave 5213 N Grape Rd 271-1105 259-0335 272-4434 
$10 OFFAT MCKINLEY FOR FIRST MONTH'S RENT AND FREE LOCK 
with purchase of Unit 
valid with student ID expires 515106 
.._, 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, May 2, 2006 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish lose Big East lead after doubleheader loss to Louisville 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer  a spot at the Big East champi­onships at the Belleville Softball Complex in South Bend this  The hit was only the fifth allowed by Notre Dame right­hander Heather Booth in her  respond to the Louisville run in the seventh. "I think we came out ready for  sent in Boot, but she could not stop the onslaught either, sur­rendering another four runs  
month, they will need some help  seven innings of work, but she  most of game one," Gumpf said.  before the game ended.  
Notrn Dame was unable to stay  to win their eleventh consecutive  was given no run support after  "But we just didn't bring it to win  Notre Dame's offense did show  
on top of the Big East standings  Big  East  regular  the first inning.  in the seventh and ended up with  some signs of life after the first  
Monday as it was swept in a dou­ season title.  "Brown and  In the top of the  the loss."  inning with two runs in the top  
bleheader for the first time this season at No. 21 Louisville. The doubleheader was a  Louisville 2, Notre Dame 1 (8)  Ruthrauffwere definitely the most  first inning, Notre Dame third base­man Meagan  Louisville 10, Notre Dame 3 Notre Dame was unable to  of the second driven in by second baseman Katie Laing and an unearned run scored by Sara  
makeup of Sunday's rain-post­ The Irish stayed  consistent  RuthraufT knocked a  rebound from the tough loss in  Smith.  
poned games and marks the first time the Irish (34-17, 14-4 Big East) have lost three consecutive  close with the Cardinals for seven innings in game one,  offensively getting the momentum  hard-hit ground ball through the left side of the infield to  game one against the Cardinals, falling behind early and failing to make any comeback in the loss  But the run support the Irish could muster was too little, too late as the big first inning put the  
games sinee March 3. "Any time you get swept it  but fell short after Cardinals catcher  going.  drive in Stephanie Brown and open up  Monday. Notre Dame threatened in the top of the first with the  game out of reach and gave Louisville the sweep over Notre  
affects the team negatively," Irish coach Deanna Gurnpf said. "We have to move on quickly and  Lacey Wood's home run over the left field fence won the  Deanna Gumpf Irish coach  the scoring. Unfortunately for Notre Dame, that  bases loaded and two outs, but a Sara Schoonaert ground out got Louisville out of the jam.  Dame. Brown and Huthraull' especial­ly shone in the doubleheader.  
stay focused  because this is  game for Louisville  would be the only  Notre Dame righty Brittney  "Brown and Ruthrauff were  
going to be a tough week ahead  in the bottom of the eighth.  time the Irish would hold a lead  Bargar started for the Irish, but  definitely the most consistent  
of us."  Louisville was on the verge of  all day as they would surrender  failed to escape the first inning  offensively getting the momen­ 
The Cardinals (34-8, 13-3)  losing in the bottom of the sev­ a run in both the seventh and  after being shelled for four runs  tum going," Gumpf said. "They  
moved up to second place in the  enth, down 1-0 with one out, but  eighth innings.  on five hits after only two-thirds  have been hitting amazingly welt  
Big East standings and South  third baseman Audrey Rendon  Booth struck out seven batters  on an inning.  all year and continued to do so in  
Florida took over atop the con­ hit a fielder's choice to second  and allowed two runs on five  Bargar could not work her way  this game."  
ference lnadnrboard as the Irish  base that scored pinch runner  hits. But the lack of run support  out of any jams in the game,  
fell  to  third place. Although  Brittney Counts from third and  greatly hurt Notre Dame in game  falling into a bases loaded situa­ Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at  
Notrn Dame has already secured  forced extra innings.  one, especially its inability to  tion early in the inning. Gumpf  jfitzpaS@nd.edu  


esc CENTER FOR  ~\~soc. ftM~~­ 
~~N~~R~~  Summer Service Learning Program ~  'Ill' g  
Eight weeks of service-learning in cities in the U.S.  
Three-credit theology course  
$2300 scholarship  

Sponsored by ND Alumni Clubs and the Andrews Scholarship Fund Housing on site, with alumni families in other cities or at your home The following sites are available: 
Traverse City, MI-Fr. Fred Foundation and Health Clinic, car required Stuart, FL-Hibiscus Children's Center, car required Starved Rock, IL-Ottawa Friendship House Suffolk, VA-Hampton Roads Youth Center Spokane, W A-L'Arche Community Sioux Falls, SD-St. Francis House/Cheyenne River Youth Project-travel stipend included Sacramento, CA-Friendship Park, car required Rapid City, SO-Boys Club-recreational program Palm Beach, FL -Pahokee Recreation Program for Children Nashville, TN -Oasis Center for teens, car required New Orleans, LA-Helping Hands, hurricane relief efforts Mobile, AL-L'Arche Community Lewiston, ME -St. Andre Home for women and children, female student with a car Kalamazoo, Ml -YMCA Preschool Program, female student 
Fort Lauderdale, FL-Covenant House, female student with a car 
Edmonton, Canada-St. Andrew's Center Dubuque, lA-Camp Albrecht Acres Aurora, IL (suburban Chicago)-Hesed House, two students Allentown, P A -Catholic Social Agency Albuquerque, NM-Dismas House, male student 
Applications and the site directory are available at http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu/academic/summer/SSP.shtml 
Tuesday, May 2, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Vikings 
continued from page 20 
But Cleveland State (8-29, 6­14 Horizon) beat Notre Dame (35-9-1, 16-1-1 Big East) at Frank Eck Stadium two years ago, in a season in which the Irish lost just 10 games and the Vikings won only 19. What's more, the squad topped Big Ten power Ohio State 7-5 April 26 in Columbus, Ohio. 
"They have my attention," Mainieri said. 
Vikings coach Jay Murphy is expected to throw freshman right-hander Brian Long tonight. Long is 1-1 with a 9.11 ERA in 12 appearances (one start). 
Mainieri will either throw left-hander Tom Thornton or right-hander Brett Graffy. Thornton hasn't pitched since being hit by a sharp ground ball in his start against Rutgers April 23. 
"I haven't made the decision yet," Mainieri said late Monday afternoon. "But either way, Graffy is going to play a big role in tomorrow's game, whether he starts or comes in out of the bullpen." 
Even if Thornton starts. Mainieri said the southpaw might not throw as many pitch­es as he usually does. 
"I have to kind of see how it goes," Mainieri said. "Depending upon if it's a strug­gle or if it's easy for him deter­mines [how long Thornton will pitch]." 
Cleveland State's top hitter this season is senior infielder Steve Chinn. He enters the con­test batting .378 with two homers, 22 RBis and 18 runs scored. Chinn has a .444 on­base percentage and a .517 slugging percentage. 
Notre Dame has seven regu­lars hitting at least .300, led by first baseman Craig Cooper's .420 batting average. Cooper has nine home runs, 55 runs scored and 33 RBis to go along with his .516 on-base percent­age. 
Mainieri said he likely would go with one of the team's nor­mal lineups, as tonight's game is the team's only mid-week game this week. 
With their two wins against Connecticut, the Irish cut their magic number for clinching the Big East regular season title to five. The team is also bidding to host the first round of the NCAA tournament. 
"We have got to be ready to play because we have a lot at stake," Mainieri said. "We have an NCAA bid on the line [and] we have an opportunity to host the first round of the regional tournament on the line, so we can not afford to go out there and play poorly and not get the job done." 
Notre Dame next plays Friday against Louisville at Frank Eck Stadium. The 6:05 p.m. contest is the first of a three-game con­ference series that could clinch the regular season for the Irish. 
Notre Dame has 11 games left in its season. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
PHIL HUDELSONIThe 
Irish third baseman Brett Lilley throws to first base in Notre Dame's 2-1 victory over Purdue April 25 at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Tuesday, May 5pm 
First 200 fans will receive a Notre Dame Baseball Cap 
z:::::I:;;:J AN AMERICAN 
R:"liOUJTION 
SMC GOLF 
Mattia ready for action at NCAAs 
humble. I am just going to go out and
National tournament 
"I couldn't have done it try to play the best I can in will be held at without my teammates' and my last college tournament." coach's support," she said. Regardless of how she per­
Florida's El Campeon This spring Mattia won forms in the NCAAs, Mattia's individual contributions medalist hon­to Saint Mary's
By BECKI DORNER "It's very bittersweet 
ors at the will not be 
Sporrs Wrirer 
Capital because I am excited quickly forgot­University ten. The histo­
to be going to the
Saint Mary's senior Megan Purple and ry/psychology
NCAAs, but at the
Mattia, the MIAA's most valu­W h i t e double major able player last fall, will rep­Invitational same time I wish the f r o m resent the Belles at the NCAA with a two­LaGrange, Ill.
whole team was 
Division III championship at round total of was recently
going.
El Campeon Golf Course at 165 and tied named the the Mission Inn Golf and for seventh recipient of the Tennis Resort May 9-11. with a 162 at Megan Mattia Marvin Wood While proud of her individ­the IWU Spring Outstanding
Belles senior 
ual accomplishment, the Fling. She also graduating senior was disap­posted the pointed that she would be Belles' top score of 160 as playing in her last college Saint Mary's won the Grizzly tournament without her Invitational April 24. teammates. Mattia also 
"It's very bit­tied for 20th tersweet with a three­
"It's been an
because I am round score of excited to be amazing four years 243 at the going to the Shamrock
and I am going to miss
NCAAs, but at Invitational 
everyone. " 
the same time and earned I wish the 30th place at whole team Megan Mattia the Northern was going," Kentucky
Belles senior 
Mattia said. Invitational. 
Although she As her garnered career winds numerous individual accom­down, Mattia hopes to finish plishments throughout the on a positive note. season -including the league "I would love to place in the MVP -Mattia has remained top 10," she said. "But really 
Preston 
continued from page 20 
During Preston's six years at Notre Dame, the Irish made the postseason all six times, including three NCAA tournaments. Notre Dame reached the Sweet 16 in 2003. 
The last three sea­sons, howev­er, the Irish missed the NCAA tour­nament and instead com­peted in the Preston National Invitational Tournament (NIT). 
"I think he is excited for this chance ... excited about a move to that area," Brey said. 
"And you wish him well and you congratulate him and thank him for his service for six years." 
The Notre Dame athletic department said Preston will be missed, and was a huge asset to the Irish program. But he added that the move is one that will enhance his for­mer assistant's resume for future head coaching posi­tions. 
"His goal is to become a head coach ... and he could be a head coach probably very soon," Brey said. "If you learn another system from another guy, that certainly can help your public relations when you become a head coach." 
Brey also said he is excited to hire a new coach because of the freshness it will bring the program. He said he has received phone calls already and the process should take place over the next couple 
MOTifIIA/If£ ~'L"'~ Jl: rrrfffll 
Tuesday, .2 @ s:oo vs. Loyola·CIIicago 
Early arriving fans will receive a FREE ND Softball throw pillow 
Senior Athlete  
Award  at  the  
Saint  Mary's athletic ban­ 
quet.  

She also has been one of the most consistently hon­ored golfers in the program, winning MIAA first team hon­ors in 2002, 2003 and 2005 and MIAA second team hon­ors in 2004, all in addition to her MIAA MVP this past fall. 
Entering her final event, Mattia looks forward to the opportunity of representing the college that has become her home. 
"It's been an amazing four years, and I am going to miss everyone," Mattia said. 
Contact Becki Dorner at rdorner 1 @nd.edu 
weeks. 
Florida returns much of its national championship team from last season -a group that defeated UCLA 73-57 on April 4. Among the returning players are forwards Joakim Noah, Corey Brewer and AI Horford. 
Notes: 
+ Brey said Monday Irish guard Chris Quinn and for­ward Torin Francis are cur­rently working out in prepa­ration for the Orlando pre­draft workouts in early June. Notre Dame forward Rick Cornett is staying in shape as well. 
"There is nothing concrete now until probably late May, where there will be some workouts with NBA teams," Brey said. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
--------------------------------------------------------~-----­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, May 2, 2006 

PAMELA LOCK!The Observer Former Irish receiver Maurice Stovall, right, catches a touchdown pass during Notre Dame's 34-10 victory over Syracuse Nov. 10, 2005. Stovall was drafted by the Buccaneers Saturday. 
Bucs 
continued from page 20 
notions. 
"I knew that I would be drafted," Stovall said. "I tried not to go in with too high expectations ... bneause tho draft is funny that way." 
I lis time finally came in the third round whon the Tampa Bay Buccaneers selected him with the 90th overall pick. lie was the ninth receiver select­ed behind Ohio State's Santonin llolmes, Florida's Chad Jackson, Miami's Sino rice Moss, Western Michigan's Grog Jennings, Miami's Devin Hester, Oklahoma's Travis Wilson, Arizona State's Derek Hagan and Wisconsin's Brandon Williams. 
Stovall also became the highest Notre Dame receiver chosen since Dorriek Mayes was draftnd in 1996 by Grn1m Bay in the second round (56th overall). Mayes and Stovall share sneond place on Notre Damn's single-season touch­down list ( 11). 
"I'm feeling excited being drafted by Tampa Bay.... It's the next step in my life," Stovall said. "[Buccaneers) coach [Jon) Gruden called me -might have been while they were on the clock -and he said, 'Welcome to the family."' 
But Stovall was projected to go higher on many draft boards. 
NF LDraftCountdown .com draft analyst Scott Wright said Stovall could go as high as the 15th pick in the second round to Philadelphia. ESPN's Mel Kiper had Stovall as his fifth receiver overall behind Holmes. Jackson. Moss and Jennings. 
Stovall said he would report to Tampa Bay Thursday to formally meet his new coach­ing staff. I le has not spoken to Irish coach Charlie Weis about his new team, who Weis coached against during his tenure in the NFL 
Stovall joins an already accomplished group of receivers in Tampa Bay ineluding Joey Galloway (83 catches, 1,287 yards, 10 
• : ~ ' .· !
·D · mr····
TI'· §.
! ' i } : I
lim. 
touchdowns in 2005) and Michael Clayton (32 catches, 372 yards in 2005). Clayton is one season removed from a rookie year in which he had 80 catches for 1,193 yards and seven touchdowns. 
Ike Hilliard and B.J. Johnson also return as Tampa Bay receivers. 
''I'm anxious more so than nervous," Stovall said. "I know they have a lot of veter­ans, and [they are ani experi­enced group." 
Stovall was a leading offen­sive threat for Notre Dame in 2005. The senior had 69 catches for 1,149 yards and 11 touchdowns. He had over 100 yards receiving in five games and went over the 200­yard mark Oct. 22 against BYU (14 catches, 207 yards, four touchdowns). 
He also set a Notre Dame bowl record for receiving yards when he had nine catches for 126 yards against Ohio State in the Fiesta Bowl Jan. 2. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi.3@nd.edu 
Wait 
continued from page 20 
The Irish offensive lineman and Barrington, Ill. native called the draft "the longest process." But for Stevenson, who looks forward to going to New England, it was worth the wait. 
"When the Patriots called me, that phone call, it's definitely hands down the team I wanted to go to," he said. "I couldn't have been more excited." 
Irish coach Charlie Weis is a former offensive coordinator for Patriot'> head coach Bill Belichick, a connection not lost on Stevenson. 
"The offensive system will be very similar to what we ran at Notre Dame," he said. "I think it's a great situation for myself and hopefully I can go in there and help out the Patriots as best I can." 
Stevenson will start to develop his role on the team soon, as he leaves for New England in less than two weeks. 
"It's going to get a little stress­ful," he said. "I found out !that onl May 12 I have to leave and I'm pretty much there for the next two months." 
But he's saving worries for later. 
''I'm trying to ride the wave of excitement right now," he said. "I couldn't be more excited about this." 
The Patriots have won three of the past five Super Bowls and fin­ished la.'it season 11-7 with a loss to Denver in the second round of the playolls. Despite his Chieago heritage, Stevenson thinks his friends and family will start to root for New England. 
"When I came to Notre Dame everybody was all of a sudden a Notre Dame fan," he said. "I hope the same for the Patriot'>." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

CLAIRE KELLEYffhe Observer Former Irish offensive lineman Dan Stevenson celebrates Notre Dame's 42-21 victory over Pittsburgh Sept. 3, 2005. 
I . . . . . /J ; i . i / . : , ! ! ·
ru·· A co·; mo·@o §; §·· m·~· 
i . .·~ . : . I : ' : /j j . ) j I : 

MINI 
COKE 
FRIDGE 
n@ each uameJ 
Tuesday, May 2, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 


CROISSANTWORLD 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one Congratulations, J.D.
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
He started out \ 
as a teller 
... LAM BY 
1 
rJ I I 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SURNP 
j 
I rI I I 
SPYNAP 
j
[] [ THE: BANK MANAGE:!<
I I I 
www.jumble.com ROSE: TO THE: TOP BE:C.AUSE: HE: WAS--­
GEBBUD 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
I I [] b 
ON
Answer: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: GUIDE JUROR BARREL REALTY Yesterday's Answer: 
What the henpecked king considered his wife­THE RULER RULER 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 One targeted by 63 Web-oriented military police programming
Place to wash up 32 Romeo, to Juliet 
language 64 Cokes and 6 Robert Burns, 35 Full complement Pepsis
e.g. of toes 65 moss
10 33113 and 45, for 38 Set short 
66 "You got that 
41 Hooch hound 
right!"
14 Lawn care brand 42 Drafting class 67 Put up
15 Hotel waiter? supplies 16 Flier to Tel Aviv 43 Port on a lake 
DOWN
of the same
17 Receiver of 
name 1 Jazz style 19.7 million 2 "_ you nuts?"
votes in 1992 44 Units for measuring wire 3 Debilitated from
18 Like birthday cakes 45 Brand of liqueur 
drugs or alcohol 4 24-hour 19 Hawaii Five-0 47 Follow, as breakfast place
crimefighter, advice 5 Close 
informally 50 Parking spot for Santa 6 Awakens 
20 Game 7 Chocolate 
23 Time Warner 52 Pigpen source
subsidiary 53 Match 8 Plow pullers
25 In addition 57 Farrier's file 9 Shipshape 26 Smidgens 58 Away from the 10 More thanwind27 Consideration popular
59 Mentally acute
29 Number of 11 Braid 
service aces, 62 Any of the 12 Food from e.g. Bahamas heaven 
13 Drudges
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
21 King Cole, in a nursery rhyme 22 Papal crown 23 Boorish 24 Unfamiliar with 28 It's between Sask. and B.C. 
29 Any Wimbledon winner, in the tennis world 
30 Hooch hound 33 Some modern addresses, for short 34 Constant follower? 
THE OBSERVER 

WILLSHORTZ 

35 Subway  46 Wipe out  51 _  crossing  
entrance 36 "Silas Marner" author 37 Penniless 39 Pickling liquid 40 Debussy's "La "  47 "What !" ("Far out!") 48 Citibank competitor 49 Wireless communication pioneer  54 Delhi prince 55 Humbug 56 Composer Stravinsky so Fond du _, Wis.  
44 Young child, affectionately  50 Superman player  61 Not an exact fig.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tim McGraw. 39: Rita Coolidge, 61: Judy Collins, 67: Glenn Ford. 90 
Happy Birthday: Remain positive if you want to accomplish anything at all this year. You may have to do things a little bit differently to make them work. A change is inevitable and the less tension you create, the easier it will be for you to do what you want. This is a year of give-and-take. so learn to do both and everything will fall into place. Your numbers are 4. 10. 13, 26. 27.44 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You will tend to overanalyze everything today. leading to trouble. Do your best to finish your chores and refrain from complaining. You won't make any gains at all if you try to do so with force. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will feel burdened by your personal responsibilities today. Try to look at the bright side and get as much done as possible. If you are quick to react, you will gain respect and impress the people who count on you. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't let your emotions or a personal problem stop you from presenting a creative idea you have. Someone will want to help you out by offering valuable suggestions. Gains can be made if you are intentional in your pursuits. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Avoid any dealings with government agencies, banks or other institutions today. Deal with people who are more hands-on and can give you advice based on experience. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make some really smart personal changes. Travel for business and you will discover a way to make more money doing something that interests you. A surprise is coming your way. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Sudden changes in a partnership you are involved in can be expected. Use your influence and ask for favors that can help you avoid loss. Ifyou get involved in an event that helps others. you will meet someone who will make a difference to your future. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Concentrate on work and getting things finished today. A chance to get ahead is present so be sure to mention your goals and intentions to superiors. Make a change to your personal appearance and you will receive compliments. ** · SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Travel for business or pleasure. You should visit an older relative or friend today. Taking a look al your past will enable you to make the right choices in the future. Romance is in the stars. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Someone may try to coerce you into getting involved in a risky venture. Avoid extravagance of any kind. Being a big spender will not impress the people you are with. Make your decisions based on common sense.*** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Personal problems will result in an argument. Be realistic about your situation. Be willing to hear what others have to say and keep things in perspective. You may be just as much to blame. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Use your inventive mind to come up with the ideal solution to a problem you face at a personal level. Making a move may eliminate your troubles. Your emotions will not lead you astray. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Money concerns must be addressed. You need to spend a little more time with the younger people in your life. You'll find out the truth if you go to the source and ask questions. ** 
Birthday Baby: You are a dreamer--creative, carefree and open to new things. You strive for quality not quantity. You are innovative, inventive and quite intent on following your own path. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, May 2, 2006 
page 20 
FOOTBALL 
Recruiting trail heats up as top tight end cotntnits 
Mike Ragone announces at press conference he will accept Notre Dame's scholarship offer to play for Irish 
conference at his high school. and eight touchdowns in his passes at Oaks Christian lligh tremendous prospeet."
By MIKE GILLOON 
Ragone joins highly touted junior season at Camden Sehool. lrisheyes.eom listed Florida Sports Writer 
quarterback Jimmy Clausen -Catholic High School in Cherry Mike Frank of' Irisheyes.com State, Ohio State, Penn State who verbally committed to the Hill, N.J. lie runs a 4.5 second compared Ragone to Jeremy and Southern California as 
Tight end Mike Hagone Irish April 22 -in a class that 40-yard dash and has earned a Shockey, the former Miami tight schools which had offered became the fourth verbal eom­also includes defensive end 4-star ranking (out of a possible end now playing for the New scholarships to Hagone before mitment of this recruiting sea­Kerry Neal of Bunn, N.C. and five) by Scout.eom. York Giants. he gave his word to Notre son as the New .Jnrsey high linebacker Aaron Nagel of Clausen is a 5-star player "[Hagone's] an unbelievable Dame. school star announced his Lemont, Ill. from Westlake Village, Calif. He talent," Frank said. "He's a tight intention to attend Notre Dame Hagone (6-f'oot-5, 230 poundsl has thrown for more than 7,200 end who can run away from Contact Mike Gilloon at Monday morning at a press eaught 30 passes for 800 yards yards and has 88 touchdown defensive backs. He's just a mgilloon@nd.edu 
NFL DRAFT 
Time to make a mark 
Stovall excited to play in Tampa under Jon Gruden 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Sports Writer 
Former Notn1 Damn wide receiver Maurice Stovall had a seemingly um~on­ventional approach to Saturday's NFL Draft. 
While he watched players being called with his own name still rmnaining on the draft board, it would have been easy for Stovall to grow overly anxious. 
But the receiver remained calm ­simply enjoying the time he was spend­ing with friends and family waiting for his moment. With endless speculation about where Stovall might land -and what team could use his services -the receiver avoided any preconceived 
see BUCS/page 18 
BASEBALL 
Cleveland State hopes for upset 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
Notre Dame may be a heavy favorite in tonight's game against Cleveland State -but don't tell that to Irish coach Paul Mainieri. 
"We have no reason whatso­ever to take Cleveland State lightly," Mainieri said. "They've lost a lot of tough games this year, and this will probably be the biggest gaine of the year for them." 
The Vikings travel to Frank Eck Stadium tonight at 5:05 to face the No. 8 Irish, who won two of three games against Connecticut this weekend and tied the final contest. 
seeVIKINGS/page 17 


Stevenson just waited for a team to call his name 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
It's not a glamour job to be an ofl'en­sive lineman. 
For former Notre Dame ofl(msive line­man Dan Stevenson, that's quite all right -he got his call to go to the NFL, any­way. The New England Patriot.'> selected Stevenson Sunday in the sixth round of this weekend's NFL Draft with the 205th overall pick. 
But Stevenson was torn deciding what to do in anticipation of his selection. 
"I told myself I wasn't going to watch [the draft!," he said Monday. "But I found myself glued to the television, which I would have thought I never would do." 
see WAIT/page 18 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Assistant coach Lewis takes job with Gators 
After six years with Brey, Lewis joins Billy Donovan at Florida 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
Irish assistant coach Lewis Preston, who spent the last six seasons with the team, accepted a job at the University of Florida under head eoach Billy Donovan. the Notre Dame athletic depart­ment said in a statement Friday. 
Former Florida assistant coach Anthony Grant left the 
Gators to take the head coach­ing job at Virginia Commonwealth. Preston was hired as Grant's replacement af'ter spending much of his time at Notre Dame working with post players ineluding 
Torin  Francis  and  Hick  
Cornett.  
"I  really  thought  Billy  

Donovan established him as his guy right out of the gate," Irish coach Mike Brey said in a telephone interview Monday. "I kinda had a feeling even before he went down there that if it went well he would offer him a job." 
see PRESTON/page 17 
<:. 
NO SOFTBALL 
ULTIMATE
U) SMC GOLF 
NBA PLAYOFFS 
MEN'S GOLF 
NHL PLAYOFFS 
Ll.l 
t: 
(.) 
Louisville 2, ND 1 
Ohio 15 
Mavericks 102 
Oilers 4 
Louisville 10, ND 3 
Notre Dame 14
z Megan Mattia earned 
Grizzlies 76 
After coming from 
Red Wings 3 
an individual bid to the 
behind to capture the
=:5 
=c:s NCAA championship 
The Notre Dame
The Irish dropped 
Dallas' victory keeps 
Big East championship, 
Detroit blew a 3-goal 
beginning May 9 in 
both games of a Big East 
women's team lost in 
Memphis winless all-
the Irish wait to see 
lead in the third period 
Florida. 
doubleheader in 
the national semifinals 
time in the playoffs. 
where they will travel 
and was eliminated 
to the Bobcats. 
Kentucky Monday. 
for the regional. 
from the playoffs. 
A. = ~ 
page 17 
page 16 
page 15 
page 15 
page 14 
page 13
U) 
... 





