
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 39 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER25, 2006 
ND strengthens sexual discrimination policy 
Title IX Grievance Procedure, harassment case timeline added to 2006 duLac 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
Associate News Editor 
Addressing weaknesses in its sexual discrimination policies, the University drew up a Title IX Grievance Procedure and a 30­day timeline for sexual harass­ment cases, both now included in the 2006 duLac: A Guide to Student Life and the Faculty Handbook. 
The Grievance Procedure is a three-step process for a victim of sexual discrimination to voice a complaint: an informal discus­sion with the accused individual, a formal complaint sent to the Office of Institutional Equity (OlE) and, finally, the opportunity for the victim to appeal the OlE's decision. 
"Previously, students may have thought, 'Well, I don't know if this is harassment, so where do I go with it?"' said Jill Bodensteiner, associate vice president and counsel for the Office of General Counsel. "We wanted to give them a clear point of contact and a clear indi­cation of how it will be handled by the University." 
Probably best known for its application to athletics, Title IX (part of the 1972 Higher Education Act) prohibits all dis­crimination based on sex -like sponsoring more men's than women's athletic teams. Under its fairly loose guidelines, Notre Dame had established an Equity in Athletics committee and a sexual harassment policy, Bodensteiner said. But before the new Grievance Procedure was put in place, no University guidelines existed for registering other cases of sexual discrimina­
see DULAC/page 6 

Burish prioritizes research growth 
Provost outlines plan, says University must tackle challenge now to match peers 
graphs, charts and tables that showed both external rankings of University departments and inter­nal benchmarks with peer institu­tions -specifically, members of the Association of American Universities. 
The AAU includes "60-some" research-intensive universities among its rank.'>, Burish said, with 26 of those private. Membership is by invitation only, and while Burish said the organization has "no spe­cific formula" for admission, Notre Dame has never been invited. 
"I would suggest we aspire ini­tially to look like AAU institutions performing at the third quartile level," Burish said. 
Conversations with AAU leaders, he said, have implied that match­ing the AAU's weaker members is not enough -the association looks to admit universities that have surpassed the minimums. 
While Notre Dame excels in most external undergraduate rankings (No. 20 overall in US News and World Report's 2007 America's Best Colleges) and places relatively high in ratings of post-baccalaure­
see BURISH/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Student thwarts burglary 
Property owners up security overfall break 
By KELLY MEEHAN and 
KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writers 
A potential burglary attempt in a student house at 113 North Saint Peter's St. was thwarted on the first day of this year's fall break when a neighbor spotted a man enter­ing the house through an unlocked window and called the police. 
Saint Mary's senior Rose Zeidler was talking to a friend on the phone in her kitchen Oct. 13 around 10 p.m. when she saw a man attempting to enter her neighbor's house. She said she quickly hung up the phone and called the police. 
"While I was on the phone with the police he managed to shimmy open the window and find a bucket to get into the house," Zeidler said. . She didn't get good look at his face, but said he about a 5-foot-8 black man, with close cut hair, jeans and a leather jacket. The police sirens must have scared off the intruder, Zeidler said, because she said she heard the man leave the house and run away. 
One of the house residents, Notre Dame senior Ryan Keckley said another neighbor called him to tell him police were surrounding his house, He said it appeared the intrudPr tried to take a stereo 
see BURGLARY/page 4 


Professor examines Middle East conflict 
By BECKY HOGAN 
News Writer 
The only way to achieve harmony in the world is to first secure peace in the Middle East, according to Father David BurrelL profes­sor of philosophy and theolo­gy, who advocated this stance in a lecture Tuesday entitled "Peacemaking in the Holy Land: Political Islam." 
Burrell insisted that the con­flicts that afflict the Holy Land must be understood in terms of the relationships among Christianity, Judaism and Islam. 
"Any bipolar relationship gets stuck," Burrell said when referring to the conflicts between Judaism and Christianity. Burrell explained that Islam is the third member of this seemingly bipolar rela­tionship that has caused reli­gious and political strife in the Middle East throughout the last century. 
Throughout the lecture, Burrell referred to key histori­cal events that have escalated this conflict. He also explained that, although the conflict in the Holy Land today is partial­ly a religious conflict, it did 
see PEACE/page 9 
Jenkins joins ROTC for early run 
By RYAN SYDLIK 
News Writer 

In Tuesday's morning's chilly air, University President Father John Jenkins and Executive Vice President John Affleck­Graves ran with the Notre Dame ROTC students from all military branches in the second annual United States Notre Dame Tri-Military Command Run. 
The run began and ended near Pasquerilla Center and lasted a little under a half hour. Its purpose was to emphasize the common bonds that stu­dents in the Army, Navy and Air Force programs share. 
"It's a wonderful morning for 
see ROTC/page 9 By MADDIE HANNA 


News Writer 
Notre Dame faces significant work in its quest to develop as a research university, Provost Thomas Burish told faculty mem­bers Tuesday, but it can -and must -act now ifit wants to catch up to peer institutions with stronger programs. 
In his second annual address to the faculty, Burish laid out his vision for how Notre Dame could tackle the "momentum challenge" of developing its research identity, a concrete plan that builds on University President Father John Jenkins' frequently stated, more conceptual goal of promoting both academic excellence and Notre Dame's "distinct Catholic mission." 
"That's our challenge," Burish told the about 150 faculty mem­bers in DeBartolo 101. "It is to be and to be recognized as a preemi­nent Catholic research university." 
He walked faculty members through the "cold hard facts" of Notre Dame's strengths and weak­nesses, flipping through PowerPoint slides with data-loaded 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, October 25, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Holidays, here I coiTie 
You know those sometimes annoying, over-the-top people who decorate for every season, bake festive desserts and finish Christmas shopping before Thanksgiving? I'm one of them. 
Kelly Higgins 
I realized my obsession with the holidays when I began Associate humming "Let It Photo Editor Snow" instead of cursing the weather of South Bend as it start­ed snowing in mid-October. The snow has made me excited because not only is Christmas well on its way, but Halloween and Thanksgiving are right around the corner. 
I like to call these holidays "the big three." They truly encompass, to me, what holidays are all about: celebration, food and giving. 
Halloween is a great start to the season. Not only does Halloween allow you to dress up as something you're not and spend the night in care-free celebration, but it also begins the spirit of giving. There is something magical about the smiles on the young trick-or­treaters' faces as they receive their treats or compliments on the costumes they'd worked on for so long. 
Once all of the fake tombstones, spider webs and jack-o-lanterns have been put away and all the candy eaten, I start gearing up for Thanksgiving. 
There is no better way for a stu­dent to prepare for finals than to eat a good Thanksgiving meal. Turkey, stuffing, cranberries, mashed potatoes, Grandma's homemade noodles, apple pie, pumpkin pie ... need I say more? 
Although I thoroughly enjoy Halloween and Thanksgiving, Christmas is by far my favorite holiday. I even love the smell -to me it's a mix of pine, gingerbread, and cinnamon. As soon as Thanksgiving is over, carols are oJ! my radio, cards are being sent out, decorations put up and presents wrapped. 
I give special consideration to the wrapping of presents, which includes coordinating ribbons and matching multiple gifts. I spend all year making mental notes about what people like, what they need and what they might want. 
There is no greater satisfaction than giving someone a gift that they love. No matter its cost, or how long it took to find that per­fect present, the smile on a friend's face really makes me feel the warmth of the Christmas spirit. 
Now that the snow is here, I can begin looking for festive recipes, the perfect Christmas cards, wrap­ping paper and, of course, the per­fect gifts. 
Until I find them though, I'll be sure to give out plenty Happy Halloweens, Happy Thanksgivings and Merry Christmases. 
Contact Kelly Higgins at khiggiO 1 @saintmarys. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­cion and strives for rbe highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize rbat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE ULTIMATE PARTY SONG? 


Guillermo Colell  Andrea McGinley  John Mulvahill  Kaitlin Shideler  Dan Zaetz  Michael Wakim  
junior Keough  junior Walsh  junior Carroll  junior BP  junior Stanford  sophomore Dillon  
'"Piano Man,' because it's the perfect conclusion to the perfect  "Toveshack.' If you have to ask why, you've never done the bunny hop."  '"Boot Scootin' Boogie,' because I'm from Texas and 9os country rocks."  "The Hokey Pokey,' because it comes with instructions. And that's what  '"Happy Birthday,' because it's sung at every birthday party. "  '"Escape,' by Enrique Iglesias, because you can't escape no  





,
pants. 
IN BRIEF 

The Department of Classics will present "Classics Live!" today from 4-6 p.m. at the Fieldhouse Mall. The event will showcase the talents of Classics department students, who will perform sketches from ancient comedy, sing Latin hymns and recite poems in Latin, Greek and English. 
Amy Mcinerny, attorney and founder of the Women's Injury Network. will speak on "Abortion and Women: Rhetoric vs. Reality" today at 7 p.m. in 102 DeBartolo Hall. The event is free and co-sponsored by the South Bend Diocese and the Center for Ethics and Culture. 
The Notre Dame chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People will hold their annual AIDS Research Dinner from 6-8 p.m. today in the LaFortune Ballroom. Tickets are $5 and can be purchased at the LaFortune box office. 
The film "Good Morning, Night" will be shown in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. today. Tickets are $3 for stu­dents and $5 for faculty and staff. 
Poet John Wilkinson will be reading from his latest work, "Lake Shore Drive," in the Hospitality Room of Reekers today at 7:30 p.m. This event is sponsored by the Creative Writing Program. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 



HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 

party." it's all about." 
Alabama gov. candidate campaigns on cleavage 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. ­Loretta Nail, the Libertarian Party's write-in candidate for governor of Alabama, is cam­paigning on her cleavage and hoping that voters will even­tually focus on her platform. 
"It started out as a joke, but it blew up into something huge," said Nail, a 32-year­old with dyed blond hair. 
Her campaign is offering T­shirts and marijuana stash boxes adorned with a photo of her with a plunging neck­line and the words: "More of these boobs." Below that are pictures of other candidates for governor -including Republican incumbent Bob Riley and Democratic Lt. Gov. Lucy Baxley -and the words: "And less of these boobs." 
Toddler gets stuck in stuffed animal machine 
ANTIGO, Wis.-Three­year-old Robert Moore went fishing for a stuffed replica of Sponge Bob and ended up trapped in a vending machine. The toddler's adventure began with a Saturday evening shopping trip with his grandmother, Fredricka Bierdemann, and three siblings. 
Bierdemann ended the trip by giving each child a dollar and telling them to have fun in a retailer's game room. 
A stuffed Sponge Bob in a vending machine's bin caught Robert's eye. He tried without success to fish it out with a plastic crane. 
"I told him I could get it for him," his grandmother said. "He's a character. He said, 'Oh no, I can get it."' 
When she turned her back to get another dollar for a second try, Robert took off his coat and squeezed through an opening in the machine. He landed in the stuffed ani­mal cube. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a: 
LLI :::r:::: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
~ 
(.) 





0 
HIGH 53 43 HIGH HIGH
-I 
LOW 37 37 LOW LOW 
HIGH LOW 
50 38 
45 35 


Atlanta 62 I 37 Boston 55 I 41 Chicago 50 I 32 Denver 63 I 34 Houston 76 I 66 Los Angeles 75 I 59 Minneapolis 52 I 33 New York 54 I 42 Philadelphia 55 I 38 Phoenix 82 I 63 Seattle 53 I 43 St. Louis 54 I 42 Tampa 76 I 49 Washington 55 I 37 
Wednesday, October 25, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Conference considers happiness 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
Academics from across a wide range of fields gathered at Notre Dame last weekend to get serious about happiness. Notre Dame's department of economics and policy studies and the program in American democracy sponsored the conference "New Directions in the Study of Happiness: United States and International Perspectives," which sought to lind the root of happiness, and how happiness can be increased and used. 
The conference drew thinkers from universities throughout the United States and abroad. Professors traveled from the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom, according to Benjamin Radcliff, professor of political science at Notre Dame. The 23 speakers from various schools included Harvard University, Dartmouth College, University of Southern California, University of Zurich, University of Basel. Florida State University and Notre Dame. 
The whole Notre Dame com­munity was invited to attend the event and, according to Radcliff, both undergraduate and gradu­ate students were there through­out the conference. 
From Sunday evening until Tuesday afternoon, presenters addressed different aspects of happiness, divided into a variety of subtopics. Two to four speak­ers discussed each topic. 
The subtopics included "What is Happiness?," "Theories and Empirics of Happiness," "Happiness and Society" and ended with "What is to be done?" Alasdair Macintyre of Notre Dame's department of philosophy was the final speaker, connecting all the previous pieces together. 
"Happiness  and  Economy,"  
"Happiness  and  Justice,"  
"Happiness  and  Politics,"  

Speakers typically presented one of their research papers and then answered questions and dis­cussed their paper with the group of about 20 other profes­sors. 
The "Happiness and Society" portion of the conference, held Tuesday, featured Wendy Hahn, professor of political science at the University of Minnesota and Eric Oliver, professor of political science at the University of Chicago. 
Rahn presented her research paper entitled "Matters of Life and Death," in which she studied suicide trends in the United States to see if there was a corre­lation between the amount of people who commit suicide and presidential election years. 
"Fewer people commit suicide during presidential elections years," said Rahn. "On balance, it's a good thing." 
Oliver's paper, entitled "Mental Life and the Metropolis in Suburban America: The Psychological Correlates of Metropolitan Place Characteristics," was a study of whether or not suburbs are the cause of unhappiness. He con­cluded that there is no evidence that the suburbs themselves make people unhappy, but that the process of suburbanization itself can have this effect. 
Radcliff noted that the opportu­nity to share and interact over research was part of what made the conference so valuable. It brought together those studying happiness from a variety of dif­ferent viewpoints, he said. Researchers were able to talk with one another about their findings, not just read each other's studies in journals, according to Radcliff. 
RadcliiT said the field of happi­ness has become "one of the big research programs of social sci­ence," and it is being examined from the perspectives of political science, economics, sociology, psychology and history. 
Often, academics in these diverse fields do not have the opportunity to work together, even when they are studying the same issue. The conference remedied this situation. 
"Here, you're getting questions [about your research] from a philosopher, sociologist and econ­omist," Hadclifl' said. 
Huth Abbey, professor of politi­cal science and Acting Director of the Institute of Scholarship in the Liberal Arts (ISLA) also expressed an appreciation for the interdisci­plinary nature of the conference. 
"People from different disci­plines can learn from one anoth­er when they are all working in the same field," said Abbey, who added that gathering such an interdisciplinary group is often "very hard to do." 
The conference was funded pri­marily by a grant from the Annenberg Foundation. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 

SMC squad cheers runners at Marathon 
By MAGGIE DUNN 
News Writer 

Sunday morning, seven members of the Saint Mary's cheerleading squad braved the cold to cheer for a much bigger team than they're used to-a team of 40,000, in fact. 
The women attended the Chicago Marathon as mem­bers of the event's official cheerleading squad, which encouraged participants on their 26.2-mile run. 
According to SMC cheer­leader junior Rocky Krivda, SMC was selected to partici­pate along with 24 other schools and All-American/All­Star cheerleading squads by the LaSalle Bank Chicago Marathon board members. The application included an essay about why their particu­lar team should be chosen and what spirit means to them. 
Krivda said she applied on the LaSalle Bank Chicago Marathon Web site in June, and the SMC cheerleaders received confirmation in early August. They were the first of the 25 squads to be selected. 
Fellow SMC cheerleader, junior Bridget Spore, said it is thanks to Krivda that they had the opportunity to step off campus and be involved in the community. 
"The Saint Mary's cheer­leading squad tries to cheer at least once for every Saint Mary's College sports team," Krivda said. "We decided we wanted to support the Saint Mary's students who ran in the Chicago Marathon, so I wrote the essays and applied for the team." 
The 25 teams that made up the marathon's Spirit Squad placed themselves at different mile markers throughout the course to energize and moti­vate not only the runners, but the estimated 1.5 million spec­tators as well. Because SMC had been the first of the 25 selected, Krivda said they were allowed first pick of the cheering location. 
The Belles squad chose mile nine at the corner of Clark and Belden Ave., where there was music and entertainment for both runners and specta­tors. 
"We passed out spirit beads and led crowds in running chants," she said. 
Spore said when they could read the runners' names, they shouted them out with encouraging words like, "stay strong" and "you can do it." 
"We got such a great response out of the girls that went, and everyone was really enthusiastic," Spore said. "I felt like the runners really appreciated it. It was reward­ing enough to try to do it again." 
Contact Maggie Dunn at mdunnO1@saintmarys.edu 

JHURSDAY, OcTOBER 26 @8:00PM 
jOYCE CENTER ARENA 
CoME MEET THE 2006,2001 MEN's BASKETBALL TEAM, AND DON'T MISS YOUR CHANCE TO BUY YOUR SEASON TICKETS! FEATURING SPECIAL GUEST... JoHN PAXsoN! (CHICAGO BuLLS ExECUTIVE VP, BASKETBALL OPERATIONS, NoTRE DAME '83) 
You CoULD WIN $50,000! 
OTHER PRIZES INCLUDE••• , RouND,TRIP AIRFARE FOR Two ON ALLEGIANT AIR , BooKs FOR ASEMESTER ~ -fREE SEASON TICKETS... AND MUCH MORE '\_\:J~ ~s. 
~\:J\:J~  ~~~  
COME WATCH AS YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS TAKE ON THE  ~~ ~~s ~'~  
PLAYERS IN THREE,POINT CONTESTS, SKILLS CONTESTS, AND  ~  
OTHER EVENTS THROUGHOUT THIS EVENING.  

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 25, 2006 
Students need to make sure break, property managers like ables out of the way so you After she witnessed a man they do not have "kegs ... Turtle Creek Apartments com­cannot see !them] through the break into her neighbors'

Burglary 
[and] couches on their porch munity manager Francie window," she said. "They house, Zeidler says she feels a 
continued from page 1 or Notre Dame signs and ban­
ners hanging from their receiver from inside the house," he said. house, since this was on the Kramer said he also stresses floor when he came home. that his tenants lock their Nothing appeared to be miss­doors and windows, set their ing, he said. alarms and close their blinds. 
This year's break as a whole Greg Anderson of Anderson had few reported robberies at NO Rentals was unaware a popular student housing com­break-in had occurred at one plexes like Clover Ridge, of his houses on North St. Turtle Creek and Lafayette Peter's Street. He said break-
Apartments, perhaps due to local landlords' preventative actions. 
Kramer Properties owner Mark Kramer said while none of his homes or apartment complexes (Lafayette Apartment and 
ins at his houses are "It was our fault. We very rare, 
since each
should [have] know better 
one comes 
than to leave a window equipped unlocked, especially when with a secu­
rity system.
we are gone for fall 
When he
break." 

rents to stu­dents, he gives them
Ryan Keckley 
an informa­
off-campus senior 
Notre Dame Apartments) were broken into, it is crucial to take a "proactive approach" and realize "anything can happen anywhere at any time." 
Kramer said it was "not unusual" that very few break­ins occurred during break. To help deter potential crimes, Kramer Properties' mainte­nance team patrols its proper­ties daily and has hired off­duty Mishawaka police officers to serve as additional security at Lafayette Apartments, he said. 
"The apartment complexes usually are the ones that get hit first," Kramer said. As an additional step to pre­vent potential criminal activity at apartment complexes, Clover Ridge Apartments installed new deadbolts on all apartment doors, Leasing Agent Lynn Buckley said. Although two vehicle break­ins at Clover Ridge were reported earlier in the year, Buckley said students who left their vehicles in their parking lot during break had "no prob­lems." 
"We ask that residents don't leave anything on their seats and lock their doors," Buckley said. 
Kramer said his tenants who left their vehicles behind did not experience any problems, and believes cars parked near homes or apartments help deter crime. 
"[There are] not as many cars as there would be when school is in session," he said. "[Leaving a car] helps because nobody knows if [residents] are home or not." Kramer said he also asks South Bend Police to increase patrols in student residential areas during break and reminds students to secure their homes or apartments before they depart. 
Keckley said he figured a break-in was inevitable. He and his roommates gave the thief an opportunity when they failed to lock all their doors and windows before they left, Keckley said. 
"It was our fault," he said. "We should [have] know better than to leave a window unlocked, especially when we are gone for fall break." 
The unsuccessful burglary was a warning to secure the house before they leave, Keckley said. 
Kramer said the key to crime prevention is the ability "to disguise the fact that they have a student house.... [It] should look like a home their mother and father live in." 
Schmuhl said they are still prepared to "It is apparent that ensure student 
there are people
"safety and 

watching our houses
security." Like many stu­and they know when dent-populated 
our breaks are. " 
complexes, Turtle Creek has 

Rose Zeidler
two officers that live on site, and off-campus senior although apart­ments do not should close blinds, lock up and move any­thing or great value out of plain sight." 
The residents of113North St. Peter's Street have been careful to keep all their doors and win­dows locked 
have alarms, Schmuhl said. since the incident. But Hedges "Students are encouraged to said the break-in still has him lock doors and windows unnerved. before they leave," she said. "I haven't really felt safe in 
"For Christmas break we ask here since it happened," he [that] students move all valu-said. 
tion packet 
describing how the system works and listing the number to call to turn it on. 
"All they have to do is get it hooked up and running," Anderson said. "But if they don't bother to call the compa­ny and get it set up, then it won't do anything." 
Senior Will Jourdan, another resident of 113 St. Peter's St., said he thinks he and his roommates will now look into setting up their alarm system. 
Kramer encouraged students to place all electronics into a locked bedroom before they leave their home for a long period of time. "In [an alarmed] house with six or seven bedrooms ... [thieves] don't have time to look for electronics, and by the time they get into the locked bedroom the police come." 
Kramer said all of his homes come with ADT alarms and when they are set off "the South Bend Police Department is very responsive, and ... will arrive within minutes." 
During future breaks, senior Brian Hedges, one of Keckley and Jourdan's roommates, said the roommates may take extra precautions and store their valuable electronics at Keckley's family's nearby house. 
While fall breaks' duration is minimal compared to stu­dents' month long winter 
T: 631-5882 

lot less safe, even though she and her roommates have an alarm and keep the blinds down and doors and windows locked. 
"It is apparent that there are people watching our houses and they know when our breaks are," Zeidler said. 
But the nearby break-in has­n't changed her desire to live at her off-campus house. 
"It worries me ... but it's not like I wouldn't live here because of it." 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu and Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


STUDIES PROGRAM 
IN 

INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 
2007-2008 Academic Year 
Information Meeting With Professor Gemot Guertler, Director ofthe CES Program 
Thursday, October 26, 2006 210 DeBartolo 5:30pm-7:00pm 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/~ois 
Ouestions?-Weber.l5(rund.edu Aoolication Deadline: November 15, 2006 

--------------------------------------------------------~----~--~ --~-­








ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, October 25, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's w1 RE SERVK:Es page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. officials consider Iraq options 
BAGHDAD, Iraq-Two weeks before U.S. midterm elections, American officials unveiled a timeline Tuesday for Iraq's Shiite-led gov­ernment to take specific steps to calm the world's most dangerous capital and said more 
U.S. 
troops might be needed to quell the bloodshed. 

U.S. 
officials previously said they were satis­fied with troop levels and had expected to make significant reductions by year's end. But a surge in sectarian killings, which welled up this past summer, forced them to reconsider. 


At a rare joint news conference with the American ambassador, the top U.S. command­er in Iraq, Gen. George Casey, said additional 
U.S. troops could come from inside or outside Iraq to "improve basic services for the popula­tion of Baghdad." 
Paul downgraded to tropical storm 
SAN JOSE DEL CABO, Mexico-Hurricane Paul weakened to a tropical storm Tuesday as it headed toward the southern tip of the Baja California peninsula, whipping up high surf that left one person dead and another missing in the resort region. 
Paul had maximum sustained winds near 65 mph, but was expected to further weaken before making landfall south of Los Cabos early Wednesday, the U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami said. 
Forecasters warned, however, that the storm could still dump up to 10 inches of rain in the mountains on Mexico's mainland, causing severe flooding. 
Paul's maximum sustained winds had reached 110 mph on Monday, making it a Category 2 hurricane. It was the third hurri­cane to threaten the Pacific coast's resort areas this season. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Ohio executes religious cult leader 
LUCASVILLE, Ohio -A religious cult leader was executed Tuesday for murdering a family of five followers who were taken one at a time to a barn, bound and shot to death. The youngest was a girl just 7 years old. 
Jeffrey Lundgren, 56, did not think the fami­ly was enthusiastic enough about his teach­ings and referred to the killings during his trial as "pruning the vineyard." 
"I profess my love for God, my family, for my children, for Kathy (his wife). I am because you are," Lundgren said in his fmal statement before he died by injection at the Southern Ohio Correctional Facility. 
Lundgren was convicted in the slayings of the Avery family-Dennis, 49, Cheryl, 46, Trina, 15, Rebecca, 13, and 7-year-old Karen. 

3 men dead in latest Toledo killings 
TOLEDO, Ohio -Three men were found dead inside a boarded-up house Tuesday, the latest in a wave of killings that has plagued the city in recent weeks, police said. 
Two victims had been shot and the other had been stabbed, Chief Mike Navarre said. A neighbor reported hearing shots about 
4:15 a.m., Capt. Diana Ruiz-Krause said. One witness saw two people leaving through the backyard, she added. 
Tuesday's discovery brought the number of killings in the past five weeks to 12 in the city of about 300,000. Police have tied several to drug deals. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Deer hunting allowed at state parks 
CHESTERTON, Ind. -Deer hunting to cull the herd will again be permitted at 18 Indiana state parks to keep the animals from eating too many plants. 
"We're charged with protecting all of our resources, not just deer and other animals but all of the plants, too," said Jim Gerbracht, resource specialist for the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. "If one negatively impacts another, we have to try to balance that. A lot of people get concerned about an individual species, but we have to look at the whole picture." 
GAZA 

AP photographer found alive 
Morenatti released without injury; kidnappers disguised him in women's clothing 
Associated Press 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip ­An Associated Press photog­rapher was freed unharmed Tuesday after a harrowing day in the hands of Palestinians who abducted him at gunpoint and dressed him in women's clothes to spirit him from one secret location to another. 
Emilio Morenatti was brought before midnight to the office of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas by Fatah officials. It was not clear who kidnapped him, though officials said he was taken by criminals. The gov­ernment and main Palestinian groups denounced the abduction. 
Morenatti, a 3 7 -year-old Spaniard, looked fatigued after his daylong ordeal but said he was unharmed. 
''I'm tired but happy to have come back because there were very anguished moments," said Morenatti. 
He said the kidnappers held him in a small room, where he was kept for about four hours during which he was visited by masked men. Later he was put in a car dressed as a woman and taken to another location. 
"They put a bag on my head and they dressed me up as a woman, as a woman in a long veil," the photogra­pher added. 
Morenatti said he was fruit later. cials." photographer, told the AP. blindfolded for much of the Morenatti did not know his "It is crucial, however, that "I managed to talk with time, and that his captors captors. Palestinian Prime journalists such as Emilio be Emilio for about 15 seconds spoke only Arabic, which he Minister Ismail Haniyeh's able to freely report the and he told me that he was doesn't speak. office said in a statement news in areas of conflict. We well both physically and 
"I didn't know at any that the identity of the kid­will be investigating what mentally. The most impor­moment what they were nappers was known and happened to assure that he tant thing is that he is safe doing," he said. "They they "would be pursued." and others can continue and free," moved me but nobody Tom Curley, AP's president their important work,"Curley Morenatti was seized as he explained anything to me. It and chief executive officer, said. headed out of his Gaza City was very confusing." said, "The Associated Press Morenatti's family in Spain apartment for an AP car, 
The photographer said he is relieved that Emilio has rejoiced at news of his where Majed Hamdan, an was held in complete dark­been released, apparently release. AP driver and translator, ness for hours. In the second unharmed. The security of "We were all sitting was waiting. Hamdan said house where he was held, our journalists is always our around together and when four gunmen grabbed his Morenatti said he heard the top concern. We appreciate we heard the news we yelled keys and cell phone and told sounds of a family. He said the assistance offered by so with joy and then we opened him to turn away, pressing a he was given one meal of many people in obtaining his a bottle of rioja (wine) to cel­gun to his head and threat­cheese and lunch meat early release, especially ebrate," Miguel Angel ening to harm him if he in the day and a portion of Palestinian and Spanish offi-Morenatti, a brother of the moved. 


Ethics panel questions Hastert 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -House Speaker Dennis Hastert urged ethics investi­gators to work quickly to unravel the congressional pages scandal Tuesday, testifying before them just after a GOP lawmaker whose recol­lections differ from his. 
The investigation is focusing on which House leaders were told about sexually explicit messages sent by Rep. Mark Foley to former pages, when leaders were told and what was done in response. Hastert and some other Republicans have suggested revelations about the messages were timed to hurt the GOP in next month's elections. 
Tuesday's appearances by Hastert, R-Ill., and House GOP campaign chair Tom Reynolds, R-N.Y., could signal that the four-member ethics committee is nearing the end of its testimony-taking phase. Both men testified behind closed doors as committee rules require. 
Hastert said afterward that he had told the committee "that they need­ed to move quickly to get to the bot­tom of this issue, including who knew about the sexually explicit messages and when they knew about it." 
Hastert has said he first learned of Foley's inappropriate e-mails to a former Louisiana page -and sexu­ally explicit e-mails to another page -just last month as the matter became public and the Florida Republican resigned. 
But Hastert's appearance followed that of Reynolds, who has said he learned of Foley's inappropriate e­mails to the Louisiana teen last spring and discussed the matter with Hastert. 
Hastert has said he didn't recall that conversation. He has also assured conservative activist Paul Weyrich that Majority Leader John Boehner was wrong when Boehner said he and Hastert discussed Foley's problems last spring. 
Hastert said he answered investi­gators' questions "to the best of my ability." 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 25, 2006 
Burish 
continued from page 1 
ate professional programs, MU leaders "don't look at those things," Burish said. 
It's about PhD programs and research -especially sponsored research, Burish said. And in the struggle to prove itself to the MU, Notre Dame has competi­tion. 
After listing "first benchmark" institutions that currently belong to the MU -including Brown, Columbia, Duke and Northwestern -Burish dis­played a slide with names of six "second benchmark" institutions that, like Notre Dame, are striv­ing for MU membership: Boston College, Boston University, Dartmouth, Georgetown, Tufts and Wake Forest. 
In comparisons between those six and Notre Dame, the University isn't at the top. Burish displayed tables that showed how Notre Dame matched up in vari­ous categories, often ranking in the middle of the MU hopefuls. 
He was careful to acknowledge that "rankings have weaknesses." 
"The point is," he said, "the perception of Notre Dame is simi­lar" -meaning low rankings of Notre Dame's research programs are not anomalies. 
The University, however, has made progress. Burish cited Notre Dame's No. 9 ranking on the National Research Council's "Most Improved list." 
"We're in the game-and this is important. We're in the game," he said. 'These are the very best research universities in the coun­
try." 
To work toward the goal of research "preeminence," Burish focused on building the University's PhD program up from its current "plateau" while protecting its "exceptional" undergraduate program and strengthening its post-baccalau­reate professional programs. 
"We need an elbow, we need a hockey stick, we need a rapidly accelerating curve," he said, referring to a line graph and indi­cating that Notre Dame would have to drastically step up its research growth in order to join its peers. 
But while urgency is important, so is the long run. 
"Excellence requires sustained effort," Burish said. "There are no quick fixes. ... This is a five, 10, 15, 20-year investment pro­gram where we've got to stay the course." 
Additional strategies are need­ed to meet this challenge, he said, and those new strategies "must build upon our current strategic plan and campaign goal." 
Burish was not specific about the funding needed to progress toward this plan -''I'm talking about extra funds that are not yet identified" -but later said the project would involve "certainly 30, 40, 50, 60 million or more now. And some of that continued overtime." 
To start, Burish said he hoped to appoint a steering committee -seeking nominations from fac­ulty members by Nov. 10-this fall and invite consultants to cam­pus by next spring. Faculty mem­bers would also be encouraged to solicit advice during this process. 
The next steps, he said, would be determining the best areas for additional investment, identifYing and sequestering funds, develop­ing markers of success and creat­ing a communication plan. 
Throughout this process, pre­and make it a B-plus program," he said. "This extra layer [of investment] is really to achieve preeminence." 

Burish also believes new pro­grams must be in areas of visibili­ty and national or international interest, suggesting global health and the environment as exam­ples. 
"We are not starting from scratch -a lot has already been done," Burish said, citing the use of last year's BCS winnings for academic priorities and the Board of Trustees Finance Committee's willingness to priori­tize faculty salary increases. 
And the work that's left, Burish said, is achievable. 
"Harvard, Yale, Dartmouth, Princeton were at one point faith­based," he told faculty members at the end of his address, walking up the steps into the audience. Those schools, he explained, have since dropped their religious aspects as they've grown in aca­demic stature. 
But Notre Dame, Burish said, doesn't have to lose its identity to become elite. 
"It's our time to join that group," he said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
duLac 
continued from page 1 
tion. 

"Complaints by a man or a woman in admissions, for exam­ple, or maybe a program or activ­ity -a student dub open to just women or just men," Bodensteiner said. "We've had informal and formal policies, but this was a gap ... an area we needed to beef up." 
Bodensteiner said Notre Dame has worked closely with the Office for Civil Hights, the branch of the U.S. Department of Education that enforces Title IX. 
"We have consulted with them on our policies. They are very much in approval with the way we're handling things now," she said. 
The new language added to the sexual harassment policy speci­fies that "[in] response to most reports of sexual harassment, the University will complete the disci­plinary procedure in 30 business days." According to Bodensteiner, that plan should smooth some kinks for all involved parties. 
"We didn't like the fact that the investigation was open-ended. Now, it gives the victim and the alleged harasser an indication of when they can expect a response," she said. "It's also a good means for us to hold our­selves to a timeline internally, when we're doing an investiga­
tion." 
Heporting cases harassment, sex­ual assault and rape has been complicated by the Ol'fice of General Counsel, and duLac pro­
"Previously, students victims will not may have thought, be subject to 
disciplinary
'Well, I don't know if 
action in con­this is harassment, so nection with 
of sexual 
Hesidence Life and Housing. She hopes such additions will help studenl<> see duLac as a resource, and not just as a rule book. 
"There's a lot of great informa­tion in !duLac]," Maurer said. "We're trying to change the nega­tive connotation." 
It's the negative, punitive con­notations students associate with duLac and OHLH that can often plague victims of sexual harass­ment, sexual assault and rape, Maurer said -which is why clarifying language was previous­ly added to duLac. 
"Several years ago, we were concerned because we'd heard students didn't want to report a case because they'd been drink­ing or they were breaking pari­etals," Maurer said. 
Now, duLac 
says "student 
vides the best forum to convey  where do I go with it?'"  their reporting of sexual assault  
the new informa­tion to students, said I ,ori Maun~r.  Jill Bodensteiner associate vice president  or misconduct." ORLH formal­ly announced  
associate direc­ and counsel  the most recent  
tor of Office of  Office of General Counsel  duLac amend­ 

ments in an Oct. 
13 e-mail to all Notre Dame students. The e-mail was delayed to coincide with the Oct. 15 release of the Faculty Handbook, Bodensteiner said. 
Maurer said ORLH follows a different, specific process to announce duLac changes that affect students' lives more signifi­cantly, such as the new alcohol policy in 2002. 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffyl@nd.edu 

Ave Maria School of Law offers a rigorous curriculum that successfully prepares graduates for the practice of law in all jurisdictions throughout the U.S. Our students benefit from an emphasis on ethics, natw·allaw, the moral foundations of law, and the rich Catholic intellectual tradition. 
Inspired by Pope John Paul II's encyclical, Fides et Ratio, Ave Maria School of Law produces graduates who are extremely well prepared for the practice of law and will approach their legal careers as an extension of their personal values and faith. 
Ave Maria graduates have: 
• 
Taken the bar exam in 33 states, achieving a first-time pass rate of 88 percent 

• 
Secured 34 prestigious judicial clerkships, 28 of these with federal courts 

• 
Accepted employment at national and regional law firms, federal and state agencies, and a host of public-interest organizations 


Visit Ave Maria's website for information about the Law School's generous scholarship program. As many as 20 full-tuition awards will be granted to members of the 2007 entering class. 
eminent programs must remain preeminent, Burish stressed. His hope, he told faculty members, is that new investments will create additional preeminent programs 




Teach with
-"not to take a C-plus program 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Wednesday, October 25, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 


12,127.88 +49.66

jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I ,830 161 1,445 2,857,285,050 


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  -0.71  -0.30  42.13  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +0.79  +0.17  21.62  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -0.77  -0.04  5.16  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.60  -0.17  28.28  
JDS UNIPHASE CP UDSUD)  -0.07  -0.01  14.15  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -0.04  -0.002  4.824  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.40  +0.020  4.990  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.20  -0.0 I 0  4.942  
5-YEARNOTE  +0.06  +0.003  4.801  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.54  59.35  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +4.70  587.60  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.38  89.48  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  119.3700  
EURO  0.7962  
POUND  0.5339  
CANADIAN$  1.1271  

IN BRIEF 
Refco CFO accused of $1 billion fraud 
NEW YORK-The former chief fmancial offi­cer of Refco Inc., one of the world's biggest commodities brokerages, was accused in an indictment Tuesday of defrauding investors in a scheme that resulted in losses of more than $1 billion. 
An indictment in U.S. District Court charged Robert C. Trosten with conspiracy, securities fraud, false filings and wire fraud. It also added new charges to the case against Refco's former chief executive officer, Phillip R. Bennett. 
Prosecutors said Trosten assisted Phillip R. Bennett, formerly Refco's chief executive offi­cer, in hiding hundreds of millions of dollars of debt owed to Refco by a company controlled by Bennett. 
The superseding indictment also added new charges against Bennett concerning fraud against holders of Refco's bonds. 
Trosten, 37, of Sarasota, Fla., was scheduled to make his initial court appearance Wednesday. Bennett, 57, of Gladstone, N.J., is currently free on $50 million bail and subject to electronic monitoring. 
Lawyers for both men did not immediately return telephone messages for comment. 

Dana Corp. given time for bonus plan 
NEW YORK -Dana Corp. on Tuesday won more time to develop a new legal strategy to obtain a package of bonuses for its chief execu­tive and other top executives. 
Judge Burton Lifland of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan, who previously rejected the proposed bonuses, approved the auto-parts suppliers request to further its legal work on a schedule that would permit a Nov. 8 fmal hear­ing on its request for a long-term incentive plan for executives. 
Even so, Lifland continued to question whether the timeline was too "aggressive" and whether Dana's strategy made sense. "Frankly, I'm not fully comprehensive of the strategy of this motion," Lifland said. 
The Toledo. Ohio. company has asked Lifland to reconsider his ruling striking down a pro­gram that would have paid Chief Executive Michael J. Burns $9.1 million over the next few years -including a $6 million bonus once Dana exits Chapter 11 protection. 
Skilling sentenced to 24 years 
Former CEO faces the harshest punishment of those involved in Enron's collapse 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -Former Enron CEO Jeffrey Skilling was ordered Monday to serve 24 years and four months in prison, the harsh­est punishment by far in Enron's scandalous collapse and one that capped a string of tough sentences for top executives in corruption cases. 
U.S. 
District Judge Sim Lake denied Skilling's request for bond and ordered him to home con­fmement, wearing an ankle monitor. Lake, who told the 

U.S. 
Bureau of Prisons to recommend when Skilling should report to prison, sug­gested the 52-year-old be sent to the federal facility in Butner, N.C., for his role in a case that came to symbolize corporate fraud in America. 


"His crimes have imposed on hundreds if not thou­sands a life sentence of poverty," Lake said. 
The former chief executive 
officer will be eligible to 
shave up to 54 days a year 
off his sentence for good 
behavior in prison. Lake 
also ordered Skilling to 
undergo alcohol and men­
tal-health counseling. A suc­
cessful completion of that 
treatment would take a year 
off his sentence. 

Skilling, insisting he was innocent yet remorseful in a two-hour hearing, was the attorney for the Enron Corp. After court adjourned, another fraud case. last top former official to be Savings Plan and Stock Skilling hugged Petrocelli. Skilling's co-defendant, punished for the accounting Ownership Plan. The Justice Skilling's term is the Enron founder Kenneth Lay, tricks and shady business Department allowed Skilling longest received by any died from heart disease on deals that led to the loss of to set aside $23 million for Enron defendant; former July 5. Lay's convictions on thousands of jobs, more his defense when he was Chief Financial Officer 10 counts of fraud, conspir­than $60 billion in Enron indicted; he still owed his Andrew Fastow was given a acy and lying to banks in stock and more than $2 bil­lawyers $30 million as of six-year term after cooper­two separate cases were lion in employee pension Monday. ating with prosecutors and wiped out with his death. plans after the company Outside the courthouse, helping them secure Skilling's arrogance, bel­imploded in 2001. Skilling vowed to appeal his Skilling's conviction. ligerence and lack of con­
His remaining assets, sentence and also asked It falls just shy of the sen­triteness under questioning about $60 million, will be that his restitution money go tence imposed on WorldCom made him a lightning rod liquidated, according to an straight to victims, instead CEO Bernard Ebbers, who for the rage generated after agreement among lawyers of being seized first by the received 25 years for his Enron sought bankruptcy for Enron employees, the federal government. His role in the $11 billion protection in 2001. Lay was company's savings and stock attorney, Daniel Petrocelli, accounting fraud that top­once a leading city father ownership plans, prosecu­said the restitution will be pled the company he built whose charitable good tors and Skilling's legal held until all of Skilling's from a tiny telecommunica­works and affable nature team. appeals are exhausted. tions firm to an industry endeared him locally. 
About $45 million will be Skilling had stood with his giant. Another CEO, Dennis Skilling was little known put in a restitution fund for hands clasped below his Kozlowski of Tyco outside Enron until his victims. The remaining $15 waist, with Petrocelli at his International Ltd., received anger at being caught million will go to Skilling's side while being sentenced. a sentence of eight and one­brought his personality into legal fees, said Lynn Sark, He gave no visible reaction. third to 25 years in prison in public focus. 



Stocks mixed as investors wait 
Associated Press assessment of the economy to be trading high of 12,133.80, edging 
issued Wednesday afternoon. past a day-old record of 12,125.16 
NEW YORK -Wall Street wob­Wall Street's performance was in before giving back some of its bled through a listless session and contrast to a big rally Monday, gains. closed mixed Tuesday as investors when the Dow surged 114 points to Broader stock indicators ended awaited the results of this week's a record high closP and other the day mixed after spending much Federal Reserve meeting. Modest indexes posted big gaius. of the session lower. The Standard gains in the Dow Jones industrial Steve Sachs, director of trading & Poor's 500 index was up 0.36, or average were enough for the index at Rydex Investments, contends 0.03 percent, at 1,377.38, and the to set new trading and closing that the run-up this month in the Nasdaq composite index was down records. Dow and blue chip stocks in gener­10.72, or 0.45 percent, at 2,344.84. 
The Fed's Open Market al has occurred too quickly to avoid Bonds rose slightly as investors Committee bPgan a two-day meet­a pullback. "There's probably good awaited the Fed's decision. The ing Tuesday, and while many reason for the rally to at least yield on the henchmark 10-year investors expected the central pause here." Treasury note fell to 4.82 percent bank's policymakers to leave inter­The Dow rose 10.97, or 0.09 per­from 4.83 percent late Monday. est rates unchanged for the third cent, to 12,127.88, eclipsing the The dollar was mixed against other straight meeting, there was still record close of 12.116.91 set major currencies, while gold prices concern on the Street about the Monday. The Dow also set a new rose. 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, October 25, 2006 

south bend . going on now 

arriving weekly: misses' designer fashion· more jewelry &accessories than ever· men's juniors' • ladies' footwear· petites' • women's sizes • kids' • home· gift cards· convenient layaway 
south bend • erskine village 1290 east ireland rd. miami st. &east ireland rd. 

going on now 

regular hours: monday-saturday, 9:30am-9:30pm, sunday, 11:00 am-6 pm 
you'll find a different selection at every store! be sure to visit our other south bend area locations in benton harbor (MO and mishawaka (IN), too. 
For the store nearest you viSit us at tjmaxx.com or call 1-800-21J-MAXX. Styles will vary by store ©2006 T.J. Maxx 


r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, October 25, 2006 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

ROTC 
continued from page 1 
a run, [with] a little snow on the ground [to] get your butt moving," Jenkins said. "We look forward to this run." 
As the tri-military command­er, Captain Michael Neller was the official organizer of this year's run -though he said the credit should go to the ROTC student organization that put it together. 
Lt. Col. Kelly Jordan, who is in charge of Army ROTC, said the run was created to increase inter-branch unity, and he hopes it becomes a tradition at Notre Dame. 
"We started it last year as a way to develop camaraderie and to emphasize not the dif­ferences among the different ROTC programs but the simi­larities we all have," he said. "The Navy does different things, the Army does different things, the Air Force does dif­ferent things, but when you look at us in terms of the entire University, we are far more similar than we are different." 
Neller explained that the ROTC branches normally com­pete against each other, rather than holding a unifying event. 
"[Jordan] was a big advocate last year of trying to do more group [unity] things [instead of1 having a football game against each other," he said. "So we tried to create a balance of both." 
Jordan said he was grateful for the special guests that ran alongside the ROTC students. 
"The ROTC students really work hard so it's wonderful to have the administration come out and support us," he said. 
After the run, Jenkins gave a short speech to the ROTC stu­dents, emphasizing Notre Dame's mission of service and duty. 
"At Notre Dame, the ROTC program has always been a 

part of this University and has an important place to play at this University," he said. "I think the major reason is that Notre Dame's student body is about service, serving the com­munity, serving the Church, serving the world in important ways.... Your lives -as candi­dates for military service -are about service too." 
Jenkins reminded the group of its continuing commitment to leadership, both at Notre Dame and after graduation. 
"During your time here in ROTC, always remember that Notre Dame spirit of service and duty. Those are high ideals," he said. "We expect you when you go forth from Notre Dame, to be leaders in your various branches of serv­ice, to be leaders in your com­munities, and to be leaders who have a sense of service and duty." 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edn 
Peace 
continued from page 1 
not begin as such. 
"The conflict began with two peoples occupying one small piece of land," he said. 
Describing both Palestinian and Israeli society as "frac­tured," Burrell said the major distinction between these two societies is that the Israeli people believe the Holy Land belongs to them, while Palestinians believe that they "belong to the land." In order to overcome this disparity, Burrell said Palestinians must develop as "civil society." 
Burrell also said it is essen­tial for anyone who examines this conflict to be able to dif­ferentiate between "good reli­gious groups" and "bad reli­gious groups." 
"Good religious groups," Burrell said, "work for recon­ciliation between Jews, 
and this was a totally dispro­portionate response," Burrell said. Also, in delaying the cease-fire agreements in this region and using untargeted weapons, Burrell said, the Israeli response to groups like Hamas and Hezbollah was dis­proportionate. 
Burrell argued that the United States as well as Lebanon is at fault for creat­ing a "major divide" between the western world and the Middle East due to their involvement in the recent con­flicts. However, he said the American presence is extremely important in bring­ing peace to the Middle East. 
To move forward in this con­flict, Burrell said he thinks nongovernmental organiza­tions will be essential in bringing greater awareness to the situation. He also argued that peace requires Israeli cooperation and continued dialogue. 
"If Israelis make it more 

Christians and Muslims." possible for Palestinians to 
Burrell also noted that secu­develop an infrastructure [ ... ], lar groups could also be more progress can be made instrumental in bringing towards a two-state solution," peace to the region. he said. 
Additionally, Burrell focused During his 25 years in on the violence and unrest Jerusalem, Burrell has that occurred in the Gaza worked with the Ecumenical Strip this summer, which has Center for Theological Studies escalated the already heated in Tantur to help build peace conflict. in this troubled region. 
"The Israeli response [to Palestinian attacks] was to Contact Becky Hogan at destroy electrical generators rhogan2@nd.edu 

ALLST~t\TE INSU ·NCE COIVlPi\NY 
Presentation and Information Session Wcdnesdav.1 October 25,. 2006 6:00-7:00 p.m. Doolev: Room,. LaFortune Student Center 
All students interested in learning more about the actuarial profession arc vvelcome to attend. 
Refreshments will be served. 



Saint Mary's College Center for Spirituality 
The 2006 Endowed Fall Lecture Series 




Brlng1ngTradltlon 
AU lectures: 7:30p.m. Stapleton Lom~ge, Le ~ans Hall Samt Mary s College 
1(0 L1 •f e 


Wednesday, September 6 Ana Maria Pineda, Santa Clara University 
Welcoming the Stranger: Hospitality in the Chnsdan Tradition S11edaL f(Jlunv-uJ> event: Thursday, September 7 
Pineda 

Immigration Issues: A Catholic Common Grourul Conversation 
(3:30 1J.m. in Stapletcm Lounge) 
Wednesday, October 25 
Claire Wolfteich, Boston University 

WcAjieich Women, Spirituality and the Warkplace 
Monday, November 6 
Saint Catherine of Siena An impersonation by actress Nancy Murray, O.P. Voices from the Past, Wisdom far Today, Hope for Tomon·ow 
SaintMatsCollegg 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 
Center for Spirituality \\-·ww.saintmarys.edu/-cfs (574) 284-4636 • e-mail: astrotma@saintmarys.edu 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN 


DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Fall2007, SPRING 2008, AY 2007-8, SUMMER2007 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Wednesday, October 25,2006 5:30-7:00 pm 102 DeBartolo 

Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15,2006 FOR FALL, SPRING, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2007-8 MARCH 1, 2007 FOR SUMMER 2007 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/~ois 



page 10 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 25, 2006 
SMC students discuss experiences In service 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER 
News Writer 

Stressing the value of helping people and building relation­ships, the second lecture of the three-part "What Difference Does it Make?" series featured Saint Mary's students sharing service experiences -an encouraging reality to campus minister Regina Wilson who said "all of our decisions and choices in life affect us in some way." 
Seniors Rachel Stowe and Angeline Johnson presented two separate sides of service work by sharing their volunteer expe­riences and detailing how they became inspired to volunteer. 
Stowe began serving through the Saint Mary's Office of Civic and Social Engagement's (OCSE) Summer Service Project at the South Bend Refugee and Immigration Services office. 
At the office, Stowe said she has had "a lot of different expe­riences with a lot of different people." 
"It's hard to think about how it has changed me at this point because [service work] has had so many different effects on my life," she said. 
Johnson echoed Stowe's feel­ings about the worth of volun­teer work. 
"Before I got into service work, I was at least always con­scious of issues that were going on with other people," Johnson said, "but I never really got directly involved, and I think that is the big difference for me, seeing from afar versus doing something." 
Johnson said the most chal­lenging part of her work ­which includes civil rights protests against Taco Bell and McDonald's -is getting people to listen and change their atti­tudes. 
"On this campus particularly there hasn't been a lot of sup­port of the causes I promote, but it makes me realize there a defi­nitely people out there who need to be informed and have their attitudes changed," she said. 
While the lecture featured the work of two students, director of OCSE Carrie Call said around 50 percent of students participate in volunteer activities while they are at Saint Mary's. 
Call said the most important reason to become involved in service work is the opportunity available to help people. 
"The things that I worry about are so small compared to the acres of need," she said. "I think one of the things we don't talk about enough is that service reminds us what life is really about and what's really impor­tant, that it's the relationships that it's really all about." 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

IT's NEVER Too EARLY•••oR Too LATE • 
Investing for your future is more important than ever. Our Investment Services Department 
can help you make the investments  
that are right for you.  
Contact us today for your FREE  
Investment Consultation!  
Investment Services Center located at: Ill West Edison Hoad Mishawaka, IN 46545 574/254-4416ewww.ndfcu.org  •ll NOTRE DAME ~~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION  


ATTENTION, all LAW, MBA, and GRADUATE students: 
Student Affairs and the Graduate School want your feedback. In the next couple of days, you will receive an e-mail invitation to complete an on-line survey about your experiences as graduate and professional students at the University. Please take the time to participate in this important survey. Your responses will help to shape the future ofgraduate and professional student life at Notre Dame. 
+ 
ALL students who complete the survey will receive a complimentary meal pass to either dining hall. 

+ 
All participants will also be registered in a lottery to win one of many available prizes, including: 


iPoqs $50 gift catqs to Papa Vino's 
Computers $50 gift catqs to the N D Bookstore 
$100 gift catqs to the DPAC Meal passes fat a week (14 meals) to either qining hall 

Wednesday, October 25, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Mayor: NYC hurried through 9/11 cleanup 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Mayor Michael Bloomberg acknowledged Tuesday that the city hurried through the World Trade Center cleanup five years ago but said the fast pace was an effort to return remains to victims' fami­lies as quickly as possible. 
Meanwhile, more bones were found Tuesday in subterranean cavities along the edge of the site as workers continued burrowing into areas that were apparently missed during the initial cleanup. 
Bloomberg spoke a day after The Associated Press reported that some officials handling the cleanup in 2002 had recom­mended a more thorough search for remains but felt rebufl'ed by a city agency that just wanted to finish the job. 
The agency in charge of the excavation, the Department of Design and Construction, was applauded for its efficiency in 2002 after it whisked away the ten-story pile of trade center rubble in less than a year. 
"Were we under time pres­sure? Absolutely," Bloomberg said Tuesday. "I don't know any family member that didn't want to find out whatever they could about the loved one that they lost. And we did it as fast as we could, consistent with safety and completeness." 
Some victims' relatives dis­missed the mayor's explanation for the quick cleanup. 
"It had very little to do with the families," said Monica Gabrielle, who has no identified remains of her husband, Richard. "This is another spin -it's a diversion away from the issue, which is that management failed, not the workers. And management needs to be held accountable." 
Among the officials who said they raised objections during the nine-month recovery effort was Lt. John McArdle, ground zero commander for the New York Police Department. 
"There came a point in time when they said, 'We gotta try to wrap this up,' and they tried to expedite it as much as possible, and they jumped the gun, and now you have all of these fami­lies hurt, and they're finding all these body parts," he said. 
Several large bones were acci­dentally discovered last week after a utility crew opened up a non-working manhole. Since then, the city has been tearing up the pavement and examining other underground pockets in the same vicinity, which is a service road along the western edge of the 16-acre site. 
In the past few days, more than 100 bones and fragments have been recovered. The med­ical examiner's office is working to match them to victims. 
Thousands of pieces recovered during the main excavation still have not yielded matches, leav­ing more than 40 percent of the attack's 2,749 victims without any trace of remains. 

Firefighters charged -with arson 
Associated Press 

TIPTONVILLE, Tenn. -The city's fire chief and three vol­unteer firefighters, including the chief's grandson, appeared in court Tuesday on arson charges stemming from a string of fires over the past two years. 
The men, all members of Tiptonville Volunteer Fire Department, were arrested Monday. All four were in the Lake County jail Tuesday afternoon after a judge set bond at $100,000 for Fire Chief James Blackburn and $25,000 or more each for the others. 
Police Chief Norman Rhodes said the investigation had been going on for about two years. 
"We've been pretty sure who it was for about the last year," Rhodes said. He didn't give a motive for the arsons beyond saying the suspects had formed a clique. 
All the buildings were vacant when they were set on blaze and no one was hurt. 
Blackburn, who is also superintendent of the city water plant, was charged with 10 counts of arson. His grand­son, Brandon Blackburn, faces two counts of arson; firefighter Floyd Joe Kilburn was charged with four counts; and firefight­er Chris Burrus was charged with two counts. 
Rhodes said he called on the state for help with the arson investigation, and James Blackburn, as fire chief, knew about the probe. 
"He was actually giving me static about calling in bomb and arson investigators -said that was his job," Rhodes said. 
Police said the men are sus­pected of setting several fires since 2004. Among the build­ings burned was an aban­doned Victorian-style house. 
"There have been quite a few people who have been upset because this has been going on. They haven't been able to sleep at night," state bomb and arson investigator Ron Powers said. 
Tiptonville, 90 miles north­east of Memphis, has about 2,400 residents. 

Judge forbids boy's circumcision 
gave the father the right to be consulted before the boy underwent any "extraordi­nary" non-emergency proce­dure. 
The father said he believed surgical removal of the boy's foreskin could cause long­term physical and psychologi­cal harm. The child's mother wanted the procedure to pre­vent recurring infections. She testified that the boy had suf­fered five bouts of painful inflammation and had begged her to help him. 
Newborns in several main­stream religions are routinely circumcised as part of their 


Associated Press 

CHICAGO -A judge in a case closely watched by those who oppose circumcision sided Tuesday with a divorced man who did not want his 9­year-old son to undergo the procedure. 
Circuit Judge Jordan Kaplan said that circumcision is "an extraordinary medical proce­dure" for a 9-year'-old and that the boy can decide for himself when he turns 18. 
The boy's father sued to block the operation in a dis­pute with his ex-wife. The couple's 2003 divorce decree faith, but religious beliefs did not figure in the ruling. 
The Associated Press is not identifying the parents to pro­tect the boy's privacy. 
Alan Toback, the father's attorney, said the man is extremely happy with the judge's decision. A telephone call to the mother's attorney was not immediately returned. 
Most U.S. newborn boys are circumcised. But a growing number of parents are opting against the surgery. The per­centage of male babies cir­cumcised has fallen from an estimated 90 percent in 1970 to about 60 percent today. 

Whatever your style, College Bowl is the place to put your brains to the test in a fast-paced game that'll let you prove your intellectual dominance. 
Tournament begins November 13 6pm -10pm @Legends 

Sign up your team of four at the LaFortune Information Desk Now through November 3 
Winner will represent Notre Dame at the ACUI Regional Tournament in February 
IJ'UDENT ACTIVtt\t.\ 


THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 12 
Wednesday, October 25, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
Tin: bukpnulnu, Da.ily Newrpapu Sen•ing Natre Darru! and Saint Mary's 
!~0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gorrumuk.kala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
Mary Kate Malone 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(57 4) 631-4 543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

Shedding some light on airline security 
I admit it, I'm afraid of the dark. When I was younger there would be occasions when I needed to stay home alone or had to babysit my little brother and sister. In these situations, I would turn on every light in the house. I truly believed that a rob­ber or a "bad guy" would not go near my house if it were well lit. Yet I now know that turning on all the lights was not keeping me safe; my illuminating house was screaming that I was young, home alone and scared. 
U.S. Homeland Security is currently turning on all the lights in America. This false sense of security and display of fear needs to be turned off and light needs to be shed upon areas where our national security is truly at risk. 
The public has always complained about airport security. Recently, securi­ty restrictions at the airport were updated after the discovery of explo­sives at Heathrow Airport. So now not only do we have to remove all shoes, belts, jewelry and wallets, we also must consolidate all carry-on liquids into a one-quart sized plastic bag. While these new regulations increase complaints and create hassles for vacationers and business men and women, they provide a sense of security for all fliers, as well as the rest of America: we find comfort in the fact that, because these irritating, 

Katie Palmitier 

A Word to the Wlse 
tedious restrictions are in place, there must be no way a terrorist could possi­bly board an aircraft. But our enemies do not even have to go on a plane to cause harm. In a recent CBS News spe­eial. a two-month investigation discov­ered that live out of six major airlines did not x-ray or open cargo, cargo that could possibly contain a bomb or other explosive device, and cargo that could possibly be !lying beneath you as you ride in coach. So what is the point in making the middle-aged man sitting next to me on the plane cheek his deodorant? I think we would all be bet­ter off if he were allowed to bring it on board. 
These restrictions are just a false sense of security. The government has encouraged the American public to believe that because strict TSA restric­tions are in place, terrorism is being prevented. Yet the security line at O'Hare is not where the breeding of ter­rorism is taking place. Terrorism is being bred in Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan, and as Will Ferrell speaking as George Bush so eloquently said, in "one of them Koreas". Therefore, my Chanellip­gloss, even though it is French, should not be placed on the Axis of Evil. Making the American public consolidate or check all their liquids and remove their shoes is not making for a safer America, especially when cargo is being shipped unscreened and nuelear weapons are being tested abroad. The TSA restrictions arc in place so America feels safe while our true safety and national security is still at great risk. Thankfully, Americans are now begin­ning to realize this false sense of securi­ty as well the deceptions of the Bush Administration. 
Instead of trying to find a terrorist among a random group of citizens tying to get to South Dakota, our anti-terror­ism efforts should be in places where we know a threat to our national secu­rity exists. While this type of protective measure may not be the most comfort­ing and personal to Americans. it would be more eiTective in protecting our national security. North Korea is cur­rently testing nuclear weapons, which could be a severe threat to U.S. security. Our current efforts in the Middle East are not working and Osama bin Laden, the mastermind behind 9/11, is still hid­ing in a dark eave. We need to turn the lights on in Osama's cave and stop ter­rorism at its source. Only then will America be safer. 
The lights are on in the White House, but no one is home. So for now, we will still have to submit to the TSA regula­tions and long security lines at the air­port, but hopefully soon the government will come to grips with the current situ­ation we are facing in the Middle East. When this happens, America will no longer have to turn on all the lights. Our national security will be restored, our soldiers will be home, and the American people will no longer be left in the dark. 
Katie Palmitier is a sophomore politi­cal science major. She can be contacted at kpalmiti@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the smdenrs of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither insrimrion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Qumions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilwon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observa-(USPS 599 2-4000) is publi.W<I Monday through Fricby except during exam and vao.tion pcrinth. A subscription w The O~rva is. $100 for one academic year, $55 for on..-scmmer. 
Th<: Observer is published ac POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send .wdress corm:rioru ro: 
Noue Dame. IN 46556--0n9 TheObservtt 
Periodical postage pa-id .11 Notre Dame: P.:O_Boxrn and additional mailing offices. 024 Sourh Dining Hall 
Not(e Dame, IN 46556-0n9 
The Observer is .1 member ofthe Associated Ptess. All reproduction rights .trt:: reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Amanda Michaels Eric Retter Marcela Berrios Fran Tolan 
Ryan Sydlik Jay Fitzpatrick Viewpoint Michael Bryan Kara King Scene 
Graphics Brian Doxtader Jeff Albert Illustrator Katie Knorr 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

A MA";JOR STUDY DOCUMENTS WEIGHT GP-JN 
AMOHG COLLEGE STUt>EKTS 
1!RF.SHMAN SOPHOMORE ciT'UNIOR SENIOR C FAT) CPA1''I'ER) (FATTE.9T) ( L."EAN) 




caglecartoons.com courant.comlboblog 
OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Submit aLetter '

Are you voting in the upcoming 

"It does not prove a thing to be right 
midterm election? 

because the majority say it is so."
to the Editor at 
Friedrich von Schiller
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
German dramatist & poet 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

www.ndsmcob~erver.com 



-----------------------------------------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 25, 2006 page 13 
We are not doing enough 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Reconsidering the papal vote 

My colleague and good friend, Charles tion, worried by an out-of-control national Rice, wrote a column recently advis­budget deficit, angered by the attempt ing us to vote as Benedict XVI to privatize social security, would ("Vote with Benedict," embarrassed by a national Oct. 10), presumably in the health policy that has left forthcoming congres­40 million people unin­sional elections. 
sured and discombobu-
But if you are an lated over the negli­independent voter gent response to appalled by the Katrina, you really nation's entry into an have to wonder how unjust war, horrified Benedict would in by the loss of life and fact cast his ballot on limb in Iraq, Nov. 7. ashamed of America's I'm inclined to think complicity in the Benedict would vote bombing of Lebanon, much as this independ­shocked by the use of tor-ent voter is likely to vote. ture in Guantanamo Bay, scandalized by tax policies 
Donald P. Kommers favoring the rich, alarmed by the professor backsliding on global warming, distressed by political science a deepening congressional culture of corrup-Oct. 24 
Football fans impress 

I am a 1978 graduate of UCLA and was privileged to come to the football game last Saturday. Words cannot describe how incredible your fans are. From the moment we got off of the bus, we were amazed by the reception we were given. I had heard about your hospitality, but never experienced any­thing quite like it. 
Instead of snarls and veiled threats like at most stadiums, we were greeted with wel­comes all around. A few tailgaters even thanked us for coming, thanked us for bring­ing the weather (when the sun appeared) and opened up their tailgates for us. After the game, several Notre Dame fans almost were apologizing for the way the game ended. 
We left the game disappointed, yes, but richer for the experience. I cannot stop singing the praises of the class and dignity of the Notre Dame experience. Go Irish, my second favorite college football team! 
Tim O'Neill Torrance, Calif. Oct. 23 
Regensburg, Notre Dame and Catholic identity 
I came to Notre Dame for the crucifixes. When I visited, these ubiquitous wall fixtures said to me: here, the cross has something to do with the classroom. This is essentially what Pope Benedict XXVI's Regensburg address has to say about our current worries over Notre Dame's Catholic identi­ty. Skim past the infelicitous para­graph about Islam to find the point: for Christianity, faith is rational because God is rational. 
The Gospel of John says that in Jesus, the Logos was made flesh. In his address, the pope remi­nisced about the "lively exchange" between the theolo­gians and other faculty at Regensburg. If faith had nothing to do with reason, it would rest content in its quarantine in the Basilica, happily ignoring the intellectual goings-on around it. Claire McGathey is wrong to sug­gest that religion outside the classroom is sufficient to sustain the Catholic identity of Notre Dame: if faith is reasonable, as the Catholic tradition insists, then it must have a place at the aca­demic table. If it does not, some­thing essential to Catholicism is lacking, no matter how many Masses are celebrated on campus. One way to keep Catholicism in the classroom is to hire Catholic professors. Someone who is per­sonally committed to both their academic field and to their Catholic faith will inevitably be concerned with the ways in which both their commitments make a claim to reason. Such a struggle must be present and public at a Catholic university. Of course, non-Catholic faculty are impor­tant, at the very least, for keeping the Catholics intellectually honest. More importantly, however, truth is truth wherever -and by whomever -it is found. But the mission of a Catholic university to see the fullness of truth within the context of the fullness of faith requires that we strive for a deep­er engagement of faith with rea­son than mere hiring practices. 

This does not mean that all other departments should take their orders from the theology faculty. It does, however, mean that these different departments should be in "lively exchange" with each other. What that means concretely for each area of study must be determined by its own practitioners, but one thing is sure. The incarnate Logos hangs crucified in our economics, busi­ness, biology, archaeology, and history classes. The possibility of a truly Catholic university hinges on the fact that this makes a dif­ference. 
Spencer Daniel grad student Fischer Graduate Residences Oct. 23 

Editor's note: This is the second of three columns calling for greater attention to the global health crisis as discussed in the academic forum earli­er this semester. The third will appear tomorrow. 
Peter Levi

In the past month, Notre Dame has 
Guest

brought the world a 
Columnist

little closer. The recent Notre Dame Forum on Global Health assembled a group of intellectuals from the med­ical and economic fields to discuss the global poverty crisis. University President Father John Jenkins responded in the following week with a campus-wide announcement that Notre Dame would become closely involved with the Millennium Development Initiative in Uganda. Also, the latest issue of Notre Dame Magazine is entirely devoted to bring­ing this global problem to a wider audience beyond campus. I am impressed that the University is actively confronting an issue most Americans tend to ignore, but there is much more to do. My own perspective on extreme poverty changed drastical­ly from blissful ignorance to compas­sionate concern while working in southern Africa. I realized we in the United States have the resources to alleviate the most extreme poverty, but as a society lack an understanding of both the situation and solutions. We must change our collective perspective and become more involved in and committed to the crusade to end poverty. 
Notre Dame can demonstrate that ending global poverty is possible by investing in development projects within impoverished nations. The Forum and subsequent events have started the discussion, but now we must have action. Dr. Jeffrey Sachs articulated that a 0. 7 percent donation of developed world Gross Domestic Product would solve extreme poverty by 2015. While 189 nations agreed to support Sachs and the Millennium Development Initiative, very few nations have come close to the neces­sary level of financial aid. Notre Dame can be an influential leader by com­mitting a 0. 7 percent donation toward the Initiative. 
Notre Dame is financially secure with a solid donor base and large endowment. According to the 2005 Annual Report, $2.3 billion were available to the University as unre­stricted net assets. These funds are available for Notre Dame to allocate as the University sees fit. A 0. 7 per­cent donation, or $16.1 million, could provide 1.6 million bed nets to people in sub-Saharan Africa, protecting 3.2 million people and saving an estimat­ed 80,000 lives. Alternatively, a Millennium Village of 23,000 people would be supported for 10 years with the same donation. This support would allow the village to generate income and become self-sufficient. 
A financial donation of 0. 7 percent from the University's unrestricted net assets is a bold commitment; however, the benefits to Notre Dame are greater than the financial costs. Jenkins clear-Iy stated the intellectual and societal benefits in his campus-wide e-mail, which include "assist[ing] villagers in implementing the interventions cen­tral to the Millennium Village Project and [providing] faculty and students, both graduate and undergraduate, with research opportunities that con­tribute to human development". While Notre Dame has the opportunity to work with the Millennium Village established by Board of Trustees member Ray Chambers in Uganda, there are many other people and vil­lages suffering from extreme poverty. I recommend that we support a new Millennium Village as an exchange for the wealth of intellect our students and faculty will receive. 

In addition, a 0. 7 percent commit­ment from Notre Dame may result in more money coming into the University. Firstly, donors have strong loyalty to Notre Dame and, being a Catholic institution, know that the University chooses programs to sup­port with moral and spiritual merit. Donors reading this month's Notre Dame Magazine will have many rea­sons to contribute, but none more wisely and simply stated than by Kerry Temple in the Editor's Note. His reason for action said that "we are all God's children" and "it is time to live as if we really believed it". A financial commitment by the University would show that we believed it and other donors would respond in turn. 
Secondly, with our own Millennium Village Project, faculty and students would be encouraged to write multi­disciplinary grants for research in the village. Agencies and institutions awarding grants are seeking more projects that cross discipline bound­aries and address issues of broad, global scope. Thus, while the $16.1 million donation is large, it will be indirectly repaid monetarily through donations and grants, but also provide great intellectual wealth to our com­munity. 
Notre Dame is capable of being a powerful role model in ending global poverty, not only among those directly involved with the University, but at institutions throughout the country. The benefits of intellectual knowledge, increased donor support and grant opportunities will prompt other insti­tutions to follow the movement started by Notre Dame. We can continue to bring the world closer with students, faculty, alumni and others throughout the University broadening their per­spectives and expertise while involved with the Millennium Village Project. The discussion initiated by the Forum opened a door for us to see the end of poverty through. Now we must follow the path articulated by Dr. Sachs and compliment our intellectual action with financial action. 
Peter Levi is a biology graduate stu­dent participating in the new Global Linkages of Biology, the Environment, and Society (GLOBES) program. He can be contacted at plevi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Wednesday, October 25, 2006 
DVD REVIEWS 

New DVD worth going 'Over the Hedge' for 
By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
Aside from "Shrek," DreamWorks has struggled to keep up in the animated movie arms race behind major power­houses Disney and Pixar. With mild audi­ence enthusiasm for last year's "Madagascar," DreamWorks came back with another animated animal movie that outdoes its predecessor. "Over the Hedge" is a delightful and entertaining film that is hard not to love with its fun storyline, excellent acting and gorgeous animation. 
The basic premise of the movie follows RJ the raccoon (Bruce Willis) as he tries to replace the large stash of food that he destroyed while trying to steal it from Vincent the bear (Nick Nolte). He only has one week to replenish the supply, or else he becomes food for the bear. He heads out to the suburb of El Rancho Camelot to get the job done. 
On the way there he runs into a family of animals who have been hibernating all winter -Verne the turtle (Garry Shandling), Hammy the squirrel (Steve Carrell), Stella the skunk (Wanda Sykes), Ozzie the possum (William Shatner) and 
Over the Hedge 
Widescreen Edition 
Dreamworks Pictures 


his daughter, Heather (Avril Lavigne), Lou the porcupine (Eugene Levy), his wife Penny (Catherine O'Hara) and their three kids. They discover that the new suburb has been built where much of their forest used to be, with only a hedge separating the wildlife from the subur­banites. RJ cons the animals into believ­ing that they should steal the human food products as their food sources, without telling them that he will secretly be taking it all from them to pay back the bear. 
Based on the "Over the Hedge" comic strips created by Michael Fry and T. Lewis, the movie works well on just about every level. Directors Tim Johnson and Karey Kirkpatrick created a film that is pleasant for all ages. It contains everything from references to such clas­sic films as "A Streetcar Named Desire" and "Silence of the Lambs" to the silly, semi-violent humor expected in car­toons. 
And as the latest trend is to insert some type of moral into cartoon movies (films like "Ice Age 2: The Meltdown"), "Over the Hedge" follows suit with plen­ty of commentary on consumerism, the expansion of suburbs and the everyday habits of people which seem odd to out­
siders. 

When RJ points 


out an SUV to the naive animals he says, "Humans drive around in them because they are slowly losing their ability to walk." When one of the animals ask how many people ride in them, RJ replies, "Usually one." 

The cast also performs in great fash­ion. Willis is well-suited as the fast-talk­ing con man as he leads the animals into the comical world of humans. Shandling is excellent as the whining turtle who is ultimately ousted by RJ as the leader of the group. 
Although they are the lead roles in the movie, the supporting cast often steals the show. Carrell is perfect as the hyper­active squirrel who brings many of the low-brow laughs to the screen. Shatner does what only Shatner is able to do as the possum who melodramatically "plays possum" throughout the film. 
The animation by the DreamWorks team is the best animation that they have produced since "Shrek." A big part of why the film works so well is the character models they used to create the animal counterparts. They are fantasti­cally well done, from their fur to the way they move. The character models have been deliberately tweaked to make them look a bit more cartoony, but there is so much realism in the animation of the film's creatures that it is a delight to simply sit and watch them hop around the screen. 
While not quite reaching the status of animated classic, "Over the Hedge" is a cute and clever little movie that gets on the screen, entertains, and then gets off. With its incredible cast and adorable animals, it is hard to not have a good time watching this film. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
Streep, Keillor anchor fictional character study 
Meryl Streep, Lily Tomlin, Woody Harrelson, Tommy Lee Jones, Garrison Keillor, Kevin Kline, Lindsay Lob an, Virginia Madsen, John C. Reilly and Maya Rudolph. The spectacular ensemble cast is directed by the award-winning hand of Robert Altman, who, using one of his sig­nature techniques, allows the cast to improvise and breathlessly talk over each other. 
The warmth and sweetness of "Prairie Home" comes alive during musical num­bers. The camera gravitates toward the luminous Streep, who employs the same musical technique as Diane Keaton in "Annie Hall" -cover up a weak voice with pure emotion and dazzle them all. 
All the actors do their own singing ­good or bad. Lily Tomlin's deep and jar­ring singing voice may not be particular­ly pleasant to listen to, but the joy of watching her on-screen interaction with Streep is worth any auditory trauma received. 
The film belongs to Streep and Keillor, but other cast members have their moments to shine as well. Harrelson and Reilly portray two country singing cow­boys with a penchant to sing inappropri­
ate songs. Kline 
By CASSIE BELEK Assistant Scene Editor 
With a Midwestern comfort, a celebra­tion of values and a salute to the nostal­gia of radio variety shows, "A Prairie Home Companion" is one of those magi­cal character-driven films blessed with a dream cast that makes viewers forget there's not much of a plot. 
The film centers around the final episode of radio show "A Prairie Home Companion" hosted by Garrison Keillor. In reality, the show continues to air live every Saturday, but in the film, it is being unplugged by a corporate big wig later that evening. The narrative is found within the relationships between the characters -individuals who have formed a family that is now being torn apart. 
It may be odd that Keiller, who wrote "Prairie Home," imagined the demise of his own show while continuing its weekly radio broadcasts, but the film reflects a very real fear -big business ultimately wins and the little guy must move on. 
The cast itself speaks for the film ­

A Prairie Home Companion 
Widescreen Edition 
New Line Home Video 

plays a quirky pri­vate eye turned security guard named Guy Noir who narrates his life as if he were in film noir. Madsen portrays a beautiful Angel of Death who offers comfort to the "Prairie Home" family, even though her presence fore-shadows tragedy. 

The weakest performance comes from Lohan, who demonstrates acting chops but is the only actor not to get lost in her character. Perhaps her tabloid exposure is to blame, but Lohan will have to work hard and keep a low profile if she wants to take more stabs at playing characters truly successfully -something that has already proved challenging after her embarrassing public scolding by "Georgia Rule" studio executive James G. Robinson. 
However, the ability of the rest of the actors to completely immerse themselves into their characters makes us forget that they are acting at all. The ensem­ble's genuine performances are exposed through Altman's genius. 
The DVD lacks any extensive special features. Included on it is commentary by Altman and Kline, a featurette and extending musical scenes. 
"A Prairie Home Companion" is able to stand on its own as a brilliant film with­out employing any extra gimmicks. It fea­tures one of the better ensemble casts of the year and it uncovers a little slice of American popular culture that is new to many. The film is enjoyable even if a per­son is not familiar with the weekly radio show. It radiates warmth and together­ness and leaves us with just a taste of the glory days of radio. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, October 25, 2006 
page 15 

The problems with horror's new subgenre 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 
There's a disturbing new trend in horror films, punctuated by recent pictures like the "Saw" movies, "Hostel" and, most recently, "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre." These movies represent the torture film, a fledgling subgenre of horror that depends on watching men and women as they are brutally tortured by various assailants. 
The original "Texas Chainsaw Massacre" was reactionary, but at least it had reason to be. Released in 1974, its horrific violence and inversion of American values was a grotesque response to the social upheaval of the previous decade; a response to Watergate, to Vietnam, to the Summer of Love. "The Beginning" pays lip service to those issues but the fa.-;ade of its topical awareness quickly falls to the wayside once the bloodletting begins. 
It's been argued to me that these films are, in a way, cathartic. That in the age of the encompassing media, of the internet, of 2417 news coverage, of constant depiction of violence both fictional and real, of watching reporters being beheaded, that we've become numb; the only way that we as a society can react to such violence is to see it in gory detail, sympathize with the characters, then walk out of the theater in catharsis, having seen and survived the visual and auditory onslaught being pre­sented. 
I don't believe this argument; or perhaps more accurately, I don't want to believe it. 
The torture subgenre is almost porno­graphic in its visceral intensity-what kind of pleasures are audiences expected to derive from watching realistic pain inflicted on other humans? Are audiences even sup­posed to derive pleasure from it? If not, then what's the point? These films aren't really any kind of effective commentary on anything and the plots are window dress­ings for the torture, which is the real draw. 
"Texas Chainsaw: The Beginning" tries to build on the foundation of its mythology, but no insight is given into anything. We don't learn more about Leatherface. We aren't given motivation for why these peo­ple kill. We just watch and wait for unsus­pecting teens to stumble into their trap. 
The violence in a film like "Jaws" is effec­tive precisely because it is so unexpected and so brief, and the violence in a film like Luis Bunuel's 1928 surrealist masterpiece "Un Chien Andalou" is effectively because it is so imaginative. Seeing a woman's eye cut with a razor was shocking in 1928 pre­cisely because it was irrational, it was indecipherable, it was repulsive. But those very qualities were somehow alluring in the artistic hands of Bunuel and Dali -the sequences have some kind of meaning, even ifthat meaning is obscure or incom­prehensible. In short, Spielberg and Bunuel trust their audience. They trust them to understand the violence and the meaning of the violence without necessarily seeing it in gory detail. The greatest impact from these films comes not from what is seen, but from what is not seen-the imagina­tion'takes care of the rest. 


The horror genre has endured because it appeals to our darkest nature, our most fearful beliefs; it cuts to the core of our deepest instincts, to the point that we are electrified, terrified and, most importantly, galvanized. The problem with the modem horror film, the modem torture film, is that our primary reaction is not fear or terror, but disgust. The torture subgenre leaves lit­tle to the audience's imagination, which actually makes them less scary and less effective. Nowhere is this more evident than in "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre: The Beginning," which pales in comparison to the classic 197 4 original. The feeling is different. Now we are too sick to look, whereas once we were too scared to look away. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
FILM REVIEW 
'Infamous' a solid but unspectacular biopic 
By CASSIE BELEK Assistant Scene Editor 
It is impossible not to compare "Infamous" to last year's Academy Award Best Picture nominee "Capote." The two films capture the life of notorious author Truman Capote as he investigates the hor­rific 1959 murders of the Clutters -a farming family from Holcomb, Kan. "Capote" ultimately portrays the "In Cold Blood" author as a 
buzz. 
When set apart from "Capote," "Infamous" is a solid biopic about the life of Truman Capote and the relationships he held with the people in his life. Each rela­tionship offers insight into Capote's com­plete character. We see his complicated and sometimes distant relationship with his lover Jack Dunphy (John Benjamin Hickey) at odds with his ever growing closeness to sensitive murderer Perry Smith (Daniel Craig). His superficial friend­
ships with New York 

small and unlik­Infamous socialites played by able man who 
Sigourney Weaver darkly struggles and Hope Davis with his desire to demonstrate his con­have the perfect ceited love for gossip ending to his story, and a glamorous
Director: Douglas McGrath 

knowing that his lifestyle. In contrast,
Writer: Douglas McGrath 

friend Perry -a his relationship with
Starring: Toby Jones, Daniel Craig, Sandra 

Clutter murderer childhood best friend 
Bullock, Jeff Daniels and Gwyneth Paltrow 

-will be put to death. "Infamous" attempts to do the same, but the result is merely "Capote"-Lite. 
"Infamous," directed by Douglas McGrath and starring Toby Jones as Capote, advertises a different view of the socialite author, a view that comes in the form of juicy gossip and glamorous gather­ings among Capote's group of New York friends. Besides exploring Capote's more social side, the movie offers little variation from "Capote." Several scenes are even remarkably similar. In general, though, "Infamous" is glossier and glitzier -at least in its New York scenes. 
It is no fault of the filmmakers that it bears resemblance to "Capote." Both films were shot at the same time, but "Infamous" was simply pushed back when "Capote" started to gamer award season Harper Lee (Sandra 
Bullock) is genuine. We see the realness of their relationship when Capote has lunch with her in a frumpy diner and invites her rather than the others to go to Holcomb with him. 
Jones convincingly portrays Capote with the nasal voice and flamboyant dress and mannerisms. Bullock delivers a notable performance as the "To Kill a Mockingbird" author, but has little to draw from since Lee has lived a private life. 
An out of place but exceptional perform­ance comes from Gwyneth Paltrow as lounge singer Kitty Dean. She appears in the film's opening scene, singing a song that hits too close to home and bringing the room to a halt as she loses composure only to recover and gloriously fmish her number. Paltrow's short presence can per­haps be explained by her starring role in McGrath's 1996 directorial debut "Emma." 


While insightful, "Infamous" tends to shy away from the darkness it could succumb to. We are given a more lighthearted vision of Capote's time spent in Kansas. More time is spent focusing on the lack of imported cheeses at the Holcomb grocery store and Christmas Day at the Dewey house than conversations with Holcomb residents about the Clutter murders and their feelings toward the ni'urderers. For this information, audiences will need to read the novel "In Cold Blood" instead of relying on a motion picture to complete the entire story. 
While "Infamous" offers a few variations from 2005's "Capote," it may not fill the need to view both films. "Infamous" dish­es more gossip about Capote's personal life and slightly portrays the effect that writing "In Cold Blood" had on Truman Capote. We see a morose Capote drinking more, but still embellishing stories to feed to the gossip hounds. In the end, "Infamous" pro­vides another piece of the Capote puzzle, but fails to solve it. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 16 Wednesday, October 25, 2006 
CD REVIEWS 
Man in Black's 'Legend' resonates on new CD 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
With his middle finger in the air for the world to see, it's no surprise the late Johnny Cash is credited for trans­forming a genre; crossing over musical­ly, lyrically and perceptually from tradi­tional country to pop, rock and (expect­edly or no) punk. 
The Man in Black is posthumously remembered in a release of his singular style, "The Legend of Johnny Cash," the result of a collaborative effort from Island Records, Universal Music 
~ --::: 
Enterprises, Columbia Records, American Records and Legacy Recordings. From the beginnings of his career with "Get Rhythm" to his final days with the Nine Inch Nails cover of "Hurt," this album careens through the career of the iconic and rebellious Cash. 
Opening with "Cry! Cry! Cry!," "Legend" gives a prime example of the country roots of Cash. His southern drawl lopes through the lyrics con­cerned with a fickle love familiar to country music. While the lyrics are somewhat cliche, they are presented creatively. The "boom-chicka" licks on the electric guitar are the fertile ground Cash would plant his signature sound in. 
"Cry! Cry! Cry!" was recorded in 1955 and would go on to become one of his first singles along with the second track, "Hey Porter." Both of these tracks, while not as well known as "Get Rhythm," "Ring of Fire" or "Folsom Prison Blues" are the seminal moments for Cash, and one can hear the begin­nings of these later hits in the rock­inflected country of Cash's early musi­cianship. 
The album's middle tracks are the zenith of Cash's career. As a type of greatest hits, "Legend" compiles the best of the best. While this is not the only Cash album one should own (the seminal "At San Quentin" is among the best of live albums in history), it does hit the high spots, which is to say in regard to Cash, zeniths of modern pop­ular music. 
The pain and torment of Cash's life (the death of his oldest brother early in his life and a dif­


ficult divorce) are the backbone
Johnny Cash 
of his music. The cathartic experi­
The Legend of Johnny Cash 
ence, while maybe not asHip-0 Records 
apparent as on his live albums, is readily appar­ent in the aural experience "Legend" pro­

Recommended tracks: 'Folsom Prison Blues,'~ Boy 
vides. "Folsom 
Prison Blues" 
and "Man in 

Named Sue,' 'Ring ofFire' and 'Man in Black' 

Black" are two songs expressing the frenetic life Cash led. Drug addiction consumed the early part of his career until meeting the love of his life and musical partner, June Carter. 
Even with the steadiness of his later life, the dirge "Hurt" (originally written by Nine Inch Nails' Trent Reznor) explores the pain and addiction that haunted Cash until the end of his life. Cash's deep baritone, aged perfectly, paints a ghastly portrait of a man who has been in the fires of a sometimes hellish world. The video, equally daunt­ing, presents a haggard Johnny Cash celebrating and lamenting the life he's led. Some of the most inspiring and original music to be released post­World War II resulted from some of the worst pain on man can endure. 
From "A Boy Named Sue," written by the children's poet She! Silverstein, to the lyrics "I hurt myself today, to see if I still feel," Johnny Cash is the American icon who told old time Nashville coun­try to shove it and gave the jailed, the beaten and the loser a voice. To listen to the Man in Black is to purge feelings of pain, misery while laughing at it all the way to grave. 
Cash crossed the cultural divide sup­posedly separating respectable music from America's so-called untouchables and is proved to be one of the most enduring music icons from his humble beginnings in 1955 and is not soon to be forgotten. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel @nd.edu 
Don't start believin' in reissued Journey album 
By SEAN SWEANY 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Some bands are one hit wonders. Others, especially many from the 1970s and '80s, can be termed "several hit won­ders." Journey is a band that falls into this category. While well-known and loved for such hits as "Don't Stop Believin'," "Any Way You Want It" and "Wheel in the Sky," ask most people to name several other Journey songs and they will be at a loss. 
Most of the songs on Journey's 1983 album "Frontiers" are the obscure, unknown type that can cause fans to wonder just how Journey had any hits at all. "Frontiers" was Journey's eighth album release, no doubt intended to capi­talize on the success of the "Escape" album, which debuted "Don't Stop Believin'." 
Much of this success was due to lead singer Steve Perry, famous for his wildly long black hair and the outrageous cos­tumes he wore on stage. Perry's talent goes without question, as he is able to consistently hit impossibly high notes with an ease that defies most. The other musi­cians in the band at this time were also talented in their roles, as their previous albums had demonstrated. 
Unfortunately, this album does not cap­ture that same success but rather por­trays Journey as a trippy 1980s band that uses too many synthesizers. The album begins on a good pace with "Separate Ways (Open Arms)," a second tier Journey song that is still likable and catchy. After this, however, the album falls into an abyss from which it can hardly recover. 
Songs titles such as "Chain Reaction" and "Edge of the Blade" should give some indication as to the quality of the music in the middle of the disc. Journey will always be known as a band that liked to use synthesizers, but they are overused here. Other futuristic-sounding instru­ments make many of the songs seem more fitting as background music for a 
bad sci-fi theme 
park than as songs on an
Journey 
album of a hit band.
Frontiers 
The lyrics for these songs,
Columbia/Legacy 
which are at times few and far between, are unimaginative and dull, which does not help the


Recommended tracks: 'Separate Ways (Open Arms),' 
excessive use of 
instruments. The 
title song, 

'Chain Reaction' and 'Edge ofthe Blade' 

"Frontiers," is one of the worst on the CD. Perry's vocals often get overlaid on top of each other and several sound effects help make this a truly awful song. 
In spite of all this, there are several songs listed as "Bonus Tracks" at the end that are not as bad as the rest. "Only the Young" and "Ask the Lonely" are two songs that sound more like the Journey that gives us hits like "Wheel in the Sky." The only problem is that these songs are so far towards the end of the CD that many listeners might switch it off before even getting this far. 
While the music is terrible, the album cover and insert can make for an inter­esting way to pass the time of the CD. 
From trippy artwork to photos of Journey on tour, one can tell that the band mem­bers they clearly enjoyed themselves while on tour for "Frontiers." One photo even shows the band freefall skydiving, perhaps symbolizing their careers. 
When Journey reaches the end of "Frontiers," many listeners will wish they could have back the 45 or so minutes spent trying to appreciate Journey. The album is slightly entertaining as it hear­kens back to the wild years of the late 1970s and early 1980s, but aside from "Separate Ways," better Journey can be found to suit this same purpose. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
Wednesday, Ocrober 25, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
IVO POGORELICH 
Croatian pianist I vo Pogorelich brings his distinctive style -described by the San Francisco Chronicle as "refreshing and maddening"-to DPAC's Leighton Concert Hall. 
SUN, OCT 29 AT 7 PM 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL 
Tickets: $36, $30 facultyI staff/seniors, and $15 all students 


ACOUSTIC AFRICA 
MARK O'CONNOR'S 

The tour includes Malis Habib Koite who has been featured on The I.ate 
fiDDLE CElEBRATION 
Shovv t1lith David Leiternw.n~ South African singerh;ongv,rriter Vusi 
Gallod '\me of the most talented and irna9inativf,~~ artist$ woddn~J k:day by JH::: Lus 
Mahlaso!a who has collaborated with the Da·.m Matthews Band on its 
Angeles i~rn~Js: O'Connor h.1s(,~s if<Zl and dt~~::.sical t~tyJB& with his ::;rigir:ai c.oun1ry and 
multi·plal!r.um album Everyday, and the Ivory Coast's Dobet Gnahore
bluegnlss hddling. ft you missed his ''Hot Swing'' tour last sprir.;g, ths !s you: chanl~e to li"W!JOY an ~~.~t:mn;:~iy :.>~>:mali!r:: and talentr:~d rnm<idan at th;:~ pt:ak of h;s c;;:rr:e~. 
rnaking her long-awaited U.S. debut. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2006, AT 8:30PM 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8 AT 7:30PM 
LEIGHTON C 0 N C E R T H A L L 
LEIGHTON CONCERT H A L L TICKETS: $:16,$30 FACULTYiSTAFF!SENIORS. AND $'1'> ALL. STUDENTS 
TICKETS: $.35, $30 FAGULTYiSTAFFISEN:ORS, AND $!5 ALL STUDENTS 
CAROLE TERRY ORGAN RECITAL 
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 5 AT 4 PM AND 7:30PM REYES ORGAN AND CHORAL HALL 
Carole Terry is Professor of Organ and Harpsichord at the University of Washington School of Music in Seattle, and has performed throughout rhe United States, Europe and the Far East. 
TICKETS: $10, $8 FACUITY/S'JAFF, $6 SENIORS, AND $3 ALL STUDENTS 
BROWNING 
CINEMA 
Good Morning, Night (2003) Nanovic Film Series Directed by Marco Bellocchio Italian language with English subtitles Thu, Oct 26 at 7 and 1 0 pm 
Diary of a Country Priest (1951) Films and Faith Weekend Directed by Robert Bresson French language with English subtitles Fri, Oct 27 at 7 pm 
The Ninth Day (2005) Films and Faith Weekend Directed by Volker Schlondorff German and French language with English subtitles Fri, Oct 27 at 1 0 pm 
The Flowers of St. Francis (1950) Films and Faith Weekend Directed by Roberto Rossellini Italian language with English subtitles Sat, Oct 28 at 3 pm 
Household Saints (1993) Films and Faith Weekend Directed by Nancy Savoca Sat, Oct 28 at 7 pm 
Therese (1986) Films and Faith Weekend Directed by Alain Cavalier French language with English subtitles Sat, Oct 28 at 1 0 pm Sun, Oct 29 at 7 pm 
Into Great Silence (2005) Films and Faith Weekend Directed by Philip Groening French and Latin language with English subtitles Sun, Oct 29 at 3 pm 
FILM LINE: 631-FILM 
,---------------------------------­
OUND THE NATION 
page 18 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVJCES Wednesday, October 25, 2006 

NFL 
NCAA Hockey Associated Press Top 20 
team record points previous 
1  Maine  5-IJ.O  788  
2  Wisconsin  3-H  724  
3  Minnesota  4+0  688  
4  Boston University  2c0·1  641  
5  Boston College  2-1-0  616  
6  Michigan  3+0  579  
7  Miami {Ohio}  4~2~0  525  
8  New Hampshire  2-0·0  513  
9  Michigan State  1-Ht  448  
10  North Dakota  3-3·0  437  
11  NOTRE DAME  3+0  311  
12  Harvard  0-0·0  310  
13  Cornell  0~0  304  
14  Denver  3-3·0  284  
15  Clarkson  4-1-1  253  
16  St Cloud Slate  2-2-0  157  
11  Darthmoulh  0-IJ.O  144  
18  Northern Michigan  3-2-1  136  
19  Vermont  2-2-1  122  
20  Colorado College  3-2-1  78  
NFL Standings  
AFC East  

team record perc. PF New England 5-1 ,833 136 NY Jets 4-3 .571 147 Buffalo 2-5 .286 100 Miami 1-6 .143 102 
AFC North 
team record perc. PF Baltimore 4~2 .667 110 Cincinnati 4*2 .667 128 Pittsburgh 2·4 .333 144 Cleveland 1·5 .167 88 
AFC South 
team record perc. PF Indianapolis 6-0 1.000 171 Jacksonville 3-3 .500 125 Houston 2·4 .333 99 Tennessee 1-5 .167 85 
AFC West 
team record perc. PF Denver 5-1 .833 79 San Diego 4-2 .667 178 Kansas City 3-3 .500 117 Oakland 1-5 .167 72 
NFC East 
team record perc; PF NY Giants 4·2 .667 163 Philadelphia 4-3 .571 200 Dallas 3·3 .500 169 Washington 2·5 .286 140 
NFC North 
team record perc. PF Chicago 6-0 1.000 180 Minnesota 4-2 ,667 120 Green Bay 2~4 .333 121 Detroit H ;143 132 
NFC South 
team record perc. PF New Orleans 5·1 .833 145 Atlanta ·H .667 124 Carolina 4-3 .511 123 Tampa Bay 2-4 .333 85 
NFC West 
team record perc. PF Seattle 4-2 .667 121 St. Louis 4·2 •667 139 San Francisco 2-4 .333 124 Arizona 1-6 .143 120 
4 2 7 6 1 5 9 12 8 3 
NR 
13 14 11 15 17 18 
NR 
10 16 
PA 80 173 153 145 
PA 69 113 125 126 
PA 
122 101 154 157 
PA 
44 85 124 135 
PA 131 147 128 171 
PA 59 95 162 189 
PA 110 107 128 125 
PA 142 128 194 165 
around the dial 
MLB 
WORLD SERIES Detroit at St. Louis 8 p.m., FOX 


Associated Press 
PITTSBUHGH -Ben Roethlisberger's second concussion in slightly more than four months may not keep him out of the Pittsburgh Steelers' lineup Sunday or prevent him from practicing this week . 
The Super Bowl-winning quarterback is question­able for Sunday's game in Oakland, but Bill Cowher sounded Tuesday very much like a coach who expects to have his start­ing quarterback ready to go this week. 
"He had an MHI done on his brain and neck. and both of those came back normal," Cowher said. "We also did the concussion test, and we're very encouraged by the results. We'll monitor his progress as the week goes on, but again, I emphasize that we're very encouraged by where he is." 

Asked if Roethlisberger would practice Wednesday, Cowher said, "We'll see how he feels." 
Hoethlisberger was briefly knocked uncon­scious during a helmet-to­helmet hit with the Falcons' Chauncey Davis midway through the third quarter of Pittsburgh's 41­38 overtime loss in Atlanta. The injury came in Roethlisberger's best game of the season -he was 16-of-22 for 238 yards and three touchdowns. 
Cowher expects the NFL to review the hit for a pos­sible fine or disciplinary action, as the league does with almost any play that involves a quarterback's head injury. 
Roethlisberger was woozy and appeared dazed a few minutes later while being taken to the loeker room on a motorized cart, but returned later to watch the rest of the game on the sideline. 
His replacement, Charlie Bateh, threw two touch­down passes during a day the Steelers passed for 413 yards in 60 minutes -the most they've had in a game in which their quar­terback never stepped on the field past the fourth quarter. Their only better passing day was Tommy Maddox's 473-yard effort in the Steelers' previous game against Atlanta, a 34-34 tie in 2002 that last­ed 75 minutes. 
Roethlisberger was deemed well enough to fly home on the team plane Sunday night. and he drove his car to a team meeting Monday. Later Monday, he met with a neurosurgeon and took the ImPACT concussion test that m.any NFL teams use to determine the severity of a concussion and when a player is fit to return. 

IN BRIEF Hurricanes WR Moore may 
return from suspension 
COHAL GABLES, Fla. -Hyan Moore stood on the sideline on a breezy Tuesday, tossing a football around with Miami teammates before practice began. The practice only seemed insignificant. 
Moore's return from an indefinite suspension may be looming. Hurricanes coach Larry Coker said the senior could see his first action of the season Saturday, when Miami visits No. 21 Georgia Tech. 
"He's in good enough shape that he possibly could play against Georgia Tech," Coker said. 
Coker stopped short of saying Moore has been fully reinstated, but said after Tuesday's workout that he has been cleared to resume practic­ing. Moore -who was suspended for his role in an Aug. 26 altercation with two women -has been with the team for at least two other prac­tices in recent weeks. 
IRL driver Allmendinger
switches to NASCAR 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. A.J. Allmendinger became the latest open-wheel defector Tuesday when the Champ Car driver signed a deal to drive for Team Red Bull in NASCAR. 
Allmendinger, who turns 25 in December, signed a multiyear deal to drive the No. 84 Camry to complete TRB's two-car lineup. Brian Vickers announced in June he was joining the team. 
Allmendinger will attempt to make his Nextel Cup debut on Sunday at Atlanta Motor Speedway. He received clearanee from NASCAR to race on a superspeedway late Tuesday. 
"A.J. has the talent, guts and ambition to be successful in any form of motorsports," THB general manager Marty Gaunt said. "lie has proven to be one of America's top young race car drivers." 
Top two seeds fall in first 
round of Lyon Grand Prix 
LYON, France -Top-seeded Marcos Baghdatis and second-seed­ed Gaston Gaudio lost in the first round of the Lyon Grand Prix on Tuesday, a defeat that could damage Baghdatis' bid to qualify for next month's Masters Cup. 
Arnaud Clement of Franee defeat­ed Baghdatis 6-2, 5-7, 6-3, and Simon Greul of Germany routed Gaudio of Argentina 6-0, 6-2. 
Baghdatis is ranked No. 10, and only the top eight ATP Tour players qualify for the Masters Cup in Shanghai, China. This was his third straight defeat in four matches since he won in Beijing last month. His last chance to qualify will be at the Paris Masters next week. 
The losses by Baghdatis and No. 8 Tommy Robredo in St. Petersburg, Hussia, allowed Ivan Ljubicic and Andy Hoddick to make the Masters Cup. Four berths remain open. 

.------------------------------------------------------------­Wednesday, October 25, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Carpenter shows craft, Cards take 2-1 Series edge 

Ace throws eight shutout innings as St. Louis beats Detroit 
Associated Press 

ST. LOUIS -Chris Carpenter was well on his way to a World Series win when, all of a sud­den, people swarmed the mound to examine his hand. 
No smudge, no scuffs. Just a cramp, and it wasn't about to blemish his outing. 
Carpenter looked every bit a Cards' ace as he threw the Detroit Tigers a curve, pitching St. Louis to a 5-0 victory Tuesday night for a 2-1 Series edge. 
"I came out tonight and had my good stuff," Carpenter said. 
He used big breaking balls to spin three-hit ball for eight innings. And with Jim Edmonds hitting a key double and St. Louis taking advantage of a poor throw, the Cardinals returned their focus squarely to the field. 
Gone were any reminders of the squabbling Kenny Rogers caused with his smudged left hand in Game 2. 
Oh, Rogers heard plenty from the sellout crowd at Busch Stadium during pregame intro­ductions, as chants of "Cheat­er!" echoed throughout the ball­park. But that was about the only noise the Tigers caused in this game. 
Looking fierce with his three­day beard, Carpenter showed why he won the NL Cy Young Award last year and is a top contender this season. He struck out six, walked none and kept the Tigers' trio of Placido Polanco, Ivan Rodriguez and Curtis Granderson hitless in the Series. 
Carpenter's lone problem came in the seventh inning. As Polanco led off by lining out to good friend Albert Pujols, Carpenter hopped off the mound and looked at his hand. 
Cardinals manager Tony La Russa. a trainer and the entire St. Louis infield converged on the mound, peering at Carpenter's bare right hand. Plate umpire Wally Bell also went out to check as reliever Josh Kinney began warming up in a hurry. 
All in all, it certainly was a lot more attention than Rogers attracted on the field after a yellowish-brown mark was spotted on his hand -he said it was a mix of dirt, spit and resin, while others claimed it was illegal pine tar. 
A moment later, Carpenter was deemed to be OK. He proved it, too, by continuing to set down the Tigers to constant cheers. 
"He showed everything he could do," La Russa said. "He's got a lot of weapons." 
Carpenter drew his biggest roar when he got a standing ovation as he came to bat in the eighth. The bottom of the eighth took a while, though, and Braden Looper relieved in the ninth and finished the com­bined three-hitter. 
"We need to swing the bats better, obviously," Tigers man­ager Jim Leyland said. 
Game 4 will be Wednesday night, provided a forecast of 

steady rain holds off. If it does, NL championship series MVP Jeff Suppan will start against Jeremy Bonderman. 
The Tigers had homered in all 10 postseason games before Carpenter stopped them. And a Detroit team that averaged 5 1/2 runs per game throughout the AL playoffs has scored a total of five in the World Series. 
It was somewhat of a sur­prise, too. Carpenter gave up a season-high seven runs at Detroit in June, and the Tigers' starting lineup was hitting .356 against him. 
"No. 1, you have to credit Chris Carpenter," Leyland said. "No. 2, we have a few guys who aren't swinging the bat too well." 
Carpenter had waited a long time for this opportunity. He was injured and missed the entire 2004 postseason, includ­ing the Cardinals' matchup with Boston in the World Series. a Red Sox sweep. 
He allowed only one runner past first base. Brandon Inge singled and made it to third in the third on a two-out wild pitch, then catcher Yadier Molina blocked a curve that bounced to keep a run from scoring. 
Granderson grounded out to end the inning. 
Edmonds hit a two-run dou­ble in the fourth. A throwing error by Tigers reliever Joel Zumaya and a wild pitch by Zach Miner gave St. Louis its other runs. 
Working on 13 days' rest, Tigers lefty Nate Robertson opened with three hitless innings. 
Players, owners finalize 5-year bargaining agreement 
cation by both sides. in August 2002, was set to King, a member of the union's lion in 2011. 
New deal, completed 
The deal makes relatively expire Dec. 19. After eight work negotiating team, thought back Under the current contract. Tuesday, will last minor changes to the previous stoppages between 1972 and to the 2002 agreement, reached the luxury tax has mainly agreement, and doesn't alter 1995, baseball will be assured just hours before players were affected the New York Yankees, through 2011 season baseball's drug rules. of 16 years of labor peace. set to strike. who paid $11.8 million in 2003, "This is the golden era in "I think you always have a "Anytime you have peace, it's $30 million in 2004 and $34.1 every way," said commissioner better relationship when both a good thing," he said. "I million in 2005. Boston paid
Associated Press 
Bud Selig, sitting in the middle sides are making money," remember going back to when I $3.1 million in 2004 and $4.2 
ST. LOUIS-Baseball players of a dais at Busch Stadium that Detroit manager Jim Leyland was in Milwaukee, I was won­million last year, and the Angels and owners proclaimed an included five officials from each said before the Tigers played St. dering if the bus was going to paid about $900,000 in 2004. unprecedented era of labor side. Louis, with the Series tied at leave." The minimum salary increas­peace, finalizing a new five­"The economics of our sport one game each. The deal continues, with es, from $327,000 this year to year collective bargaining have improved dramatically, "That kind of always seems to minor modifications, existing $380,000 next season, and agreement Tuesday night and that's good. That, after all, work out in the end -doesn't luxury tax and revenue-sharing amateur draft pick compensa­before Game 3 of the World made for a more wholesome it? -for whatever reason, rules, provisions that funneled tion for some free agents who Series. atmosphere. We didn't have to when the owner's happy and money from large-market sign with new teams will be 
Lawyers struck the deal last quarrel about a lot of things. So putting a little in his pocket, teams to their competitors. The eliminated. Players selected in weekend during negotiations in overall, it was a very, very and the player is happy and payroll threshold for the luxury the June amateur draft who New York. then worked on put­important part of the environ­putting a little in his pocket. In tax increases from $136.5 mil­aren't college seniors must sign ting it in writing. The agree­ment that continues peace," he our case, I guess in our game, a lion this year to $148 million by Aug. 15, taking away the ment, which runs through the said. lot in both pockets." next year, then goes up each leverage of any threats to 2011 season, is subject to ratifi-The current contract, reached Colorado Rockies pitcher Ray year until it reaches $178 mil-remain in school. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
FALL WORK $15.50 base-appt. Flexible schedules, no exp. need­ed, customer sales/service, condi­lions apply, all ages 17+, Call Today 574-273-3835. 
TICKETS 
WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251-1570 
FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232-0964 
WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY WILL PAY MORE. 57 4-288·2726. 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK­ETS. BEST PRICES.574-232-2378. 
FoR RENT 
BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam­pus homes & weekend rentals. Bluegoldrentals.com 
Weekend rental: 3 BR Home, walk to stadium, Terrace Ln. 269-930­8038. swmient@qtm.net 
45 minutes from Notre Dame Stadium. $125.00/night. Year round cabins sleep six. Call Lumberjack Resort 269-646-2181. 
HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 
2-6 Bedrooms 
www.NDstudentrentals.com 

2 rooms in private home w/separate entrance for football weekends. Shared bath. Close to ND. 
574-259-8603. 
House Available for 07-08 Year. Close to Campus. Just Renovated to Brand New Condition. Open to groups of 9-11 Students. 
Contact MacSwain@ gmail.com 
Home for Football weekends. 3 BR,Full Bsement, Walking distance to ND. 631-766-7637. 
Rooms for rent for football week­ends. Close to campus. Call574-243-0658. 
FoR SALE 

3-4 bdrm home, 1.5 BA, 2 mi. N of ND. 2-stall garage. 41ots. $101,000. 52420 
Forestbrook. Call Terry 574-289-5630 or Ron 277-4122. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1·7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Workin double time on the seduc­lion line... 
Two yella fellas are about to be let loose in Sout Bend! 

~~--­
~ 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 25, 2006 
NFL 

QB questions painful hit 
me out for a long period of time -but they didn't want me to finish the game, either," Hasselbeck said. 
An MRI taken Monday showed the Pro Bowl quarter­back strained his right medial collateral ligament. Coach Mike Holmgren said Hasselbeck has a Grade 2 sprain on a three-grade scale and will miss "around" three games. He will return no soon­er than the Nov. 19 game at San Francisco. 
"I guess it's kind of good news for me," Holmgren said. "It could have been worse, cer­tainly." 
Seneca Wallace, a fourth­year veteran, will make his first NFL start Sunday at Kansas City (3-3}. The Seahawks (4-2} are already without league MVP Shaun Alexander, who is out with a broken foot. Holmgren said the 2005 league rushing leader is on track to return Nov. 6 against Oakland. 
Hasselbeck said he is con­stantly aware of people at his feet to guard against injury, "within a certain amount of time after I throw." 
He said he relaxed in this case, thinking the play was over. 
"I guess I learned my les­son," he said. After Sunday's game, Henderson was apologetic. 
"I was falling to the ground and Mack Strong kind of pushed. I definitely didn't mean to do it," said Henderson, a fourth-year vet­eran from Maryland. 
"It was definitely an acci­dent. I hope he gets back soon." 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles dovvn Tri-State in a tight road contest 
Team defeats MIAA rival for seventh consecutive time 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 

The Belles history of success against MIAA rival Tri-State continued Tuesday as Saint Mary's pulled out a close 3-2 victory on the road against the Thunder. Saint Mary's has never lost in seven matches with Tri-State, including three this season. 
The Belles looked strong in their 30-21 first-game victory. But Tri-State quickly rallied, tying the match with a 30-23 win in the second game. A 30­24 win in the third game gave the Thunder a chance to clinch the upset. 
Saint Mary's showed its resilience with a 30-25 win that forced a deciding fifth game. A 15-9 win sealed the Belles comeback and victory. 
Belles coach Julie Schroeder­Hick had mixed feelings about the team's performance. 
"I was very proud of the way we never let up, but I didn't like the way we fell behind and. lost the lead," she said. 
Saint Mary's improved to 16-8 on the season (9-6 in the MIAA) with the victory. The loss dropped Tri-State to 5-10 in the MIAA and 8-19 overall. The Belles remained in fifth place in the MIAA while the Thunder dropped to eighth. 
The Belles effort was led 
defensively by senior libero Anne Cusack, who tallied a match-high 30 digs. Offensively the team was led by outside hit­ter Kristen Playko, who had 18 kills. 
Playko was recently named MIAA player of the week for her efforts in Saint Mary's win over Kalamazoo. In the match the senior recorded 10 kills and 25 digs. She leads the team with 302 kills on the year and is sec­ond on the team with 4.33 digs per game. 
Leading the losing cause for Tri-State was Sallie Richardson, who had a team-high 11 kills. Senior Rainbow Bednarski, recently named MIAA specialty player of the week, posted a strong effort with 37 assists and 15 digs. 
Schroeder-Biek was very impressed by Tri-States per­formance. 
"They've improved every time we've played them, and it took everything we had to pull out the victory," she said. "They're a very good team, and this win was huge for us." 
The Belles will play one final regular season match Saturday against third-place Adrian before the MIAA Tournament. 
Schroeder-Biek, however, is confident her team will not look past their final opponent. 
"We always play one match at a time, and we place more importance on that now than ever," Schroeder-Biek said. "We will do what we can to tighten up our game and be ready for 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
Hasselbeck out at least three weeks, angry with situation 
Associated Press 
KIRKLAND, Wash. -Seattle 
Seahawks quarterback Matt 
Hasselbeck will miss at least 
three weeks with a strained 
ligament in his right knee. 
And he's not happy about how it happened. Hasselbeck believes Minnesota's E.J. Henderson 
could have avoided rolling into his lower right leg Sunday early in the second half of Seattle's loss to the Vikings. 
"I don't think it was unavoid­able, but only he would know," Hasselbeck said of Henderson and his hit, which was not penalized. 
The play occurred when the Vikings' linebacker came off a block by fullback Mack Strong and swung his torso into Hasselbeck's leg, which was planted after he had just thrown an incomplete pass. 
''I'm sure he didn't try to put 


Interested in non-profit social services administration? Interested in psychotherapy with children and families? Interested in an international career? Interested in completing an MSW? 
Enroll in nationally accredited Social Work courses at Saint Mary's College. 
Introduction to Social Work SW 202 Human Behavior &the Social Environment I(SW 235) Working with Diverse Populations (SW 340) Relationships, Intimacy, &Sexuality (SW 341) Family Violence &Sexual Abuse Issues (SW 370) 
Contact the Department of Social Work at 574-284-4515 or kominkie@saintmarys.edu. 
AP Seattle quarterback Matt Hasselbeck, center, is helped off the field after injuring his knee in a 31-13 loss to Minnesota. 
NEW DUBLIN VILLAGE TOWNHOUSE 
3 bedrooms, 3% baths, living room, dining room, family room w/ fireplace, all appliances, 2 car attached garage. 
Instant access to the Toil Road 
5 minutes from downtown South Bend, Grape Road Corridor. Walking distance to Notre Dame and St. Mary's 1745 sq. ft. floor plans 
Amust to see. 
Call Portage Realty, 272-7750. Ask for Sharon. 




Wednesday, October 25, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NFL 

Merriman appeals 4-game suspension 

get

"He did not go into the 
is prohibited hooked up and
MONTERREY, MEXICO 

under the back alley somewhere get penalized
Business and Engineering courses available Beginning Spanish courses offered 

NFL's sub-and put a needle in his for taking 
stance abuse something
Business and Engineering INTERNSHIPS 

butt for steroids.,, 
policy. that they did­Cornwell said n't know was 
INFORMATION SESSION 

the substance David Cornwell present in the was in a sup­Shawne Merriman's attorney supplement. 

want to start aclub;I 
Students interested in starting a new club must submit a proposal by November 1, 2006. Details on proposal contents may be found on the SAO website: http ://sao. nd.edu/studentg roupsllisti ng 
nothing has been done wrong on my part," Merriman said. "And I will try to get it straightened out as soon as possible. As of right now, I'm not missing any time." 
The 22-year-old Merriman was the 2005 NFL Defensive Rookie of the Year and started in the Pro Bowl after leading the Chargers with 10 sacks. Nicknamed "Lights Out" because of his punishing hits, Merriman has 5 1/2 sacks this season for the Chargers (4-2), who host St. Louis on Sunday. 
"I have no reason to do any­thing wrong, especially when I'm already in the spotlight and doing things and trying to pres­ent to people the right and wrong way to go about things," Merriman said. "This is obviously 

a mistake that forfeit his bonus
"We love the guy and
has to be dealt money if he 
we·re sticking with ever has anoth­
with correctly." 

If Merriman him.,, er positive drug loses his appeal, test. it would be "It's tough to 
another blow to Luis Castillo deal with," a defense that San Diego defensive end Castillo said. 
has been losing players since outside linebacker Steve Foley was shot by an off-duty Coronado police officer eight days before the season started. Shaun Phillips, who replaced Foley and has a team-high six sacks, injured his calf Sunday and could be out for up to four weeks. 
End Igor Olshansky has been out with a knee injury. 
Cornwell said the appeal could take anywhere from one week to months. 
Nandrolone "is the primary culprit in tainted supplements," the lawyer said. 
"I know that people get tired of hearing it, but it is a fact and it is not going to go away until the Congress of the United States deals with it," Cornwell said. "Supplements are not reg­ulated and it is a dirty fact of this industry that many of them are tainted with prohibited sub­
stances and 
men like 
Shawne 
"That's why this is such an evil process," 
the attorney said. 
"He has been playing, unwit­tingly, Russian roulette with his career because he's been taking the same supplements, and it has been subjected to testing, and hasn't yielded a positive test." 
"So he thought the supple­ments that he was taking were safe." 
Late in the 2004 season, 
Chargers fullback Andrew Pinnock was sus­pended for four 
Pinnock acciden­
tally took a sup­plement that contained a banned substance. 
Coach Marty Schottenheimer and players said Monday they were barred from commenting by the league's Collective Bargaining Agreement. 
But defensive end Luis Castillo said he understands what Merriman is facing. 
Castillo tested positive for androstenedione at the scouting combine in February 2005. He later said it was "a huge mis­take" in taking the steroid to help his performance at the combine after he was slow to heal from an elbow injury sus­tained his senior year at Northwestern. 
Castillo had a clause inserted 
in his contract 
stating he will 
"It tests your 
mental strength and it tests your support net­work with your family." 
"We love the guy and we're sticking with him, and we told him that." 
"Shawne's a mentally strong guy and he's going to come back from this and do great things for us." 
p vv~mti/d,e/~J p ~{A)-~ y 
PLa,yov~ 

Apply-to-5~ Abro-cu:L-iN\/SwYVvty /vl~ 
2007-8 
PUEBLA, MEXICO 
Fall semester pre-med program Spring semester general program INTERNSHIPS 
Pro-Bowl linebacker tested positive for a banned substance 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -Shawne Merriman's attorney said the Chargers' outside linebacker failed a drug test because of a tainted supplement and will continue to play while appeal­ing his four-game suspension. 
Attorney David Cornwell said he believed Merriman tested positive for the steroid nan­drolone, which 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2006, 5:30 PM 
204 DEBARTOLO 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: NOVEMBER 15, 2006 APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: http://www.nd.edu/ ..vois 
plement Merriman has been taking. 
"He did not go into the back alley somewhere and put a nee­dle in his butt for steroids," Cornwell said at a news confer­ence Monday, about two hours after Merriman practiced with the Chargers a day after their 30-27 loss at Kansas City. 
Merriman said he spoke with teammates and coaches earlier in the day, and "apologized to them for this being a distrac­tion, especially the critical time we're going through as a team." 
games for violat­

"As ofright now,
"Hopefully, ing the league's nobody makes any rm not missing policy on anabolic kind of judgment any time.,, steroids and or anything that related sub-basically makes stances.
Shawne Merriman
me guilty for any­His agent said 
San Diego linebacker
thing, because at the time that 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 25, 2006 
CLUB SPORTS 

Ultimate, rowing teams continue fall season 
Special to The Observer 
Last weekend Notre Dame organized a 24-hour game of Ultimate to raise money for the Robinson Community Learning Center. Play began Saturday Oct. 21 at 8:00 p.m. and contin­ued until Sunday night at 8:00 
p.m. 
More than 50 players par­ticipated in the event. The game itself was an epic battle between the dark and light teams, which came to be referred to as Hunting and Fishing, respectively. At 7:58 

p.m. 
Sunday, the score was tied 319-319 and freshman Katie Morin caught the game winning score to bring victory to team Fishing. 


Close to $1,000 was raised to help the Robinson Center through the donations and hard work of Notre Dame students. 
The Ultimate team would like to thank everyone involved in organizing, playing and donat­ing to this event, especially sophomore Danny Collom, the event organizer. 

During the first weekend of fall break, the Notre Dame's men's squad traveled to Columbus to participate in Ohio State's Fall Brawl Tournament, while the women's squad com­peted in the Best of the Midwest in Ann Arbor, Mich. The men's squad started the day strong with a 13-11 victory over sec­tion rival Indiana. The Irish and the Hoosiers traded points all game long with Notre Dame capitalizing on hard defense by freshman Bill Carson. Notre Dame capitalized by being able to locate Collom and sophomore Daniel Reimer deep. 
Notre Dame had only three upperclassmen traveling this weekend and the experienced squads of Ohio and Michigan State proved to be too much. The Irish played good games against both, and focused on resolving issues on the handle. Notre Dame hung with James Madison but lost 13-11. The Irish finished to 1-3 in pool play, which pitted them them against Miami of Ohio in the knockout round Sunday. 
On Sunday, captain Steve Kurtz led the Irish to a first round victory. Once again, the game was close, and hard defense from Ryan Gorman and others proved to be the differ­ence. In the win, the Irish advanced to the top 16 in a field of 35. They lost another close game to Chicago, effectively ending their weekend. The Irish played one last game against Penn State, and they focused on gaining experience for the freshman-laden squad. 
In the women's season open­er, the Irish dropped a close 9-7 match to Michigan State. The Irish fell behind early, 3-0, as the offense struggled to find its rhythm. Morin stood out in her debut performance as a consis­tent receiver in the field, while classmate Jenna Adsit's intensi­ty on defense slowed down the Spartan attack. Although the Irish were able to tie the game at seven, the Spartans closed out the match, and now lead the all-time series 4-3. 
Notre Dame learned its lesson well in its opene1· and proceed­ed to win its tina! three games, 13-3 over Michigan B. 11-9 over Michigan A, and 11-7 over Northwestern. Captains Rachel Meeks and Shannon Morrison ran the offense, mixing short, swift passes .with long downfield bucks. Sophomores Elizabeth Crosby and Jean Whitney, both in their first year as handlers, contributed to the growing con­fidence of the offense against Michigan B. In the final two games against Michigan and Northwestern, defensive layouts by Meeks and freshman Erin Maxwell highlighted the action, assisted by Kathryn Florack, another freshman. 
The Irish women will return to action this weekend in the Illinois Invitational. 
Men's Rowing 
At the end of fall break, twelve Irish rowers along with coxswain Gigi Gutierrez raced in the most prestigious regatta in North America, Boston's Head of the Charles. The expe­rience was a first for all twelve Notre Dame rowers, although Gutierrez had previously raced in the event. 
Notre Dame entered three 

boats in two events. The two Irish sculling boats of Nick Kluesner and Michael Giordano along with Steve Maher and Michael Lucci raced in the 23 and under men's sculling dou­ble event. Gigi Gutiern~z's crew of Scotty Campbell, P.J. McAward, Tedd Hawks, Karol Grzesiak, Matt Degnan, Andrew Baker, Kane Pithcy and Ray Schleck raced in the Men's Collegiate eight-plus event. 
After having their bids accept­ed in early September, the Irish crews concentrat1~d their train­ing on the Head of the Charles. Their preparation was complet­ed with two-a-day training over fall break. The training paid off as all three of the crews turned in their best races of the sea­son. Kluesner and Giordano fin­ished 11th in the sculling event after navigating their way down the winding course. Maher and Lucci were the 10th place fin­ishers, but were pushed back to 16th as a the result of receiving time penalties for one instance of aggressively passing another crew and two instances of dan­gerous steering and racing. 
Maher and Lucci raced closely with three other boats the entire race, and were involved in minor crashes going both under a bridge that was a part of a turn, and during a 180 degree hairpin turn. Kluesner and Giordano raced a cleaner course in turning in their per­formance. 
Gutierrez' eight man crew was also involved in dramatic racing. The Irish eight raced incredibly well for the first two and a half miles of the three mile course. After the 180 degree hairpin turn, Gutierrez's crew was preparing to go under the last of six bridge archways at the infamous "dead man's curve." Unfortunately for the Irish crew, a Chinese junior national crew from Peking University had been involved in a two boat collision approxi­mately one kilometer before the final bridge. By the time the Peking boat reached the final bridge they sank due to a hole from the crash, leaving a sink­ing boat, eight Chinese rowers and a coxswain swimming under the only bridge archway that Notre Dame could pass under. The Notre Dame eight­plus stopped until the Chinese could get out of the way, and then Notre Dame performed a sprint to catch the boat they had been chasing before they were forced to stop. The unoffi­cial results placed Notre Dame at 32nd in the race. Factoring in the estimated 25-30 second stoppage time, the Irish crew would have finished approxi­mately 16th place and within five percent of the winner's time. 
The results are being reviewed to determine whether to move the Notre Dame boat into the range within five per­cent of the winner's time, which would grant the Notre Dame eight-plus an automatic bid to next year's race. 


WANTBD: 

Judicial Council Vice President of Elections 
Accepting applicants of all ages-freshmen to seniors 
The Vice President assists the Judicial Council President in all undergraduate student elections. 
lt"'s a great way to get involved in Student Government! 
Pick up an application in the Student Government office or email jcouncil@nd.edu to obtain a copy. 
DBADLINB: Thursday, October 26 at 5:00 pm in the Student Government Office 

LONDON PROGRAM 
APPLICATION MEETING 
FOR FALL 2007 & SPRING 2008 Thursday, October 26, 2006 141 DeBartolo 6:00pm 
SOPHOMORES \\'HO MISSED THE SEPTEMBER MEETING ARE WELCOME! 
Wednesday, October 25, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
Tri-State 
continued from page 28 
is optimistic about her chances to get a shutout this time around. 
Ashley Hinton said. dence individually, and as a 
The physical duo has com­team," Ashley Hinton said. bined for 12 goals in 13 games "Despite our record we are a and should have no problem great team that can compete getting things rolling against with anyone." an overmatched Tri-State defense. Contact Dan Murphy at 
"We need to find our confi-dmurphy@nd.edu 

"Our defense has been out­standing this season so I am confident that we will be able to keep them out of the back of the net." she said. 
On the offensive side of the ball. the Belles will look to break a three-game scoreless streak of their own. The last time Saint Mary's scored was in a 3-2 win over Olivet on Oct. 
7. Since then the team has been shut out by Hope, Adrian and Calvin in the past week. 
"For Wednesday's game we are looking to get our offense going ... against Tri-State we have a good opportunity to score goals," Heline said. 
The Belles will look to sisters Ashley and Lauren Hinton to fight down low in order to cre­ate opportunities for them­selves as well as their team­mates. 
"We must capitalize more on our opportunities in front of the net ... punish our oppo­nents for their mistakes," 

October 26 So What Do You Plan To Do With a Philosophy Degree? 
Meet the Career Center Team and find the answers to those pesky questions from parents and roommates. 
Raffle to Win: iPod & Portable DVD Player 
119 O'Shaughnessy 
Contact information: 
Office of Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE 'DAME 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Parbhu, Keckley -win ITA doubles cro-wn 
Notre Dame junior advances to finals of ITA singles bracket 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Sports Writer 
Tuesday may have been a busy day for Irish junior Sheeva Parbhu, even painful at times after losing in the singles championship, but it proved to be rewarding when he and senior Ryan Keckley defeated Louisville's Damar Johnson and Slavko Radman in the ITA Midwest 

Regional Doubles champi­onship. Both cou­ "{Parbhu and Keckley] did an unbelievable job of staying focused and  opportunities to win that match and let them slip away," he said. Both Parbhu  
ples  fought  concentrated  and  Moneke  
hard to the end, forcing the match  throughout the match.''  battled with fatigue through­out the match,  
into  a  the  third  for  
tiebreaker. The Irish duo outlasted  Ryan Sachire Irish assistant coach  each. Parbhu, however, did not feel that the  
their  oppo­ long day was  a  
nents able to  factor  in  the  

come up with a 9-8(5) victo­match since both players had ry. endured similar trials. 
Parbhu struggled in the Parbhu even felt Moneke was beginning to return· the more fatigued after playing strong serves of both longer previous matches. Johnson and Radman, but After winning the first set 
Keckley  was  
never  far  
behind  to  

help his team­mate out. Keckley played the entire match consistently -returning almost every­thing the Louisville duo served him. 
"[Keckley's] return was amazing," 
Parbhu said. "He kept me in it." 
Parbhu was able to turn it up later on in the match and got off needed shots and serves. Keckley continued to strike well, and the two were able to finish off Johnson and Radman. 
"They did an unbelievable job of staying focused and concentrated throughout the match," Sachire said. "They did a good job of executing their shots on their serves." 
Singles was a different story. 

Parbhu advanced to the finals of the ITA Midwest Regional Singles Championship with a 7-6(2), 6-4 win over Ohio State's Devin Mullings -a win that placed him in the finals against Mullings teammate, Steven Moneke. 
En route to the finals, Moneke defeated Irish senior Stephen Bass 7-6, 3-6, 6-4. 
Parbhu put up a strong fight in the first set of the match forcing Moneke into a 7-6(2) tiebreaker. Assistant coach Ryan Sachire praised Parbhu's efforts in the first set, but felt he had the 
potential to win 
it. 
"Sheeva had 
on the tiebreaker, Moneke fol­

"Ifyou lose your con­lowed up with 
a second win,

centration for a sec­
taking the 

ond, [Moneke's] going match 7 -6(2), to take advantage of 6-2. Sachire 
felt that

that. He makes you 
Moneke's high 

earn every point." level of play was a good challenge for
Ryan Sachire 
Parbhu.

Irish assitant coach 
'Tie's an 
unbelievable 
competitor and amazing athlete," Sachire said of Moneke. "He doesn't make stupid mistakes." 
Sachire also noted Moneke's ability to strike from the baseline. He felt Moneke was a strong consis­tent player that challenged everyone he dueled. 
"If you lose your concen­tration for a second, he's going to take advantage of that," Sachire said. "He makes you earn every point." 
Contact Dierdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 


page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, October 25, 2006 
Playoff 
continued from page 28 
last four, including 1-0 losses to Syracuse and Cincinnati to end the regular season. Their last win came Oct. 14, when they topped St. John's -the No. 3 team in the Big East red divi­sion. With 11 total defeats, DePaul is tied with Georgetown for the second-highest tally of losses this season behind Marquette (15), and it has the worst record of any of the 12 Big East teams advancing to the conference's postseason tourna­ment. 
Irish coach Bobby Clark feels that the Blue Demon squad coming to South Bend tonight will be stronger than the one Notre Dame faced earlier in the season. 
"They were a young team then," Clark said. "They've had a few interesting results [in the last few weeks, and] they're a team that has improved." 
When DePaul last visited Notre Dame Sept. 10, the Irish dominated the game from whis­tle to whistle, outshooting the Blue Demons 26-4 on their way to a 3-0 victory. 
Clark anticipates Notre Dame will still come out sharp against DePaul. 
"If they [overlook their oppo­nent], on their heads be it," he said. "I hope this team has enough respect for every oppo­nent on our schedule to know that each team can beat us if we're not properly focused." 
DePaul is spearheaded by freshman forward Alex Mangan. Mangan leads the Blue Demons with five goals and 10 points. 
Notre Dame is led by senior midfielder Greg Dalby and jun­ior striker Joseph Lapira. Dalby, a preseason All-American, was named a player to watch for the Missouri Athletic Club Hermann Trophy, which is given annually to the best college soccer player. Lapira leads the nation with 19 goals this season, half of Notre Dame's conference-best 38 goals. 
Senior goalkeeper Chris Cahill will anchor the Irish defense. Cahill has nine of Notre Dame's Big East-leading 10 shutouts this season and is second in the conference with a 0. 71 goals against average. 
Freshman striker Michael Thomas, who has been named Big East rookie of the week for the past two weeks, should also contribute to the Irish effort. Thomas is currently third on the team with three goals. 
"Michael needs to keep going the way he's been going since the start of the season," Clark 

TOM FOLEY/The Observer Irish goalkeeper Chris Cahill, center, makes a catch Oct. 11. against Michigan State as defenders Ryan Miller (2) and Jack Traynor watch. 
, Get Credit This Winter 
Interested in teaching in the future? Want to spend part of winter break in Arizona? 
Sign up for "Holy Cross Mission in Education" Seminar which takes place 
Jan 1-7 near Phoenix. Deadline for sign up is Oct. 27th. 
Contact the Center for Social concerns for more info or e-mail wpurceiiOnd.edu 

said. "Suddenly someone scores a few goals and people notice them, but that doesn't mean he's playing any different than he was earlier." 
Clark reiterated that the team's primary objective would be to keep improving. 
"lf we are focused, we needn't fear any team in the league, or in the country," he said. "fwe're not [focused!, we can suddenly slip to being a very ordinary team. 
With the way the Irish have played for most of the season, Clark expects them to continue their winning ways. 
"You [have to] take it one game at a time and work on it and make that game a master­piece," he said. "We want to make [each game] as good as it possibly can be." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

lAST CHANCE: 
Concession Stand Training 
:;;:: 

Part 1: Food Service Trainin Wednesday & Thursday October 25th-26th **12p1n & 4pm LaFortune Ballroom Part 2: Mana er Trainin Wednesday & Thursday October 25th-26th**12:3opm & 4:3opm 
*At least two members ofall groups must attend Food Service Training. (Manager can attend and count as one ofthe two) 
*At least one member ofgroup must attend Manager Training. (Manger does not have to attend Food Service Training) 
LaFortune Montgomery Auditoriu1n 


Questions?Amy Geist StudentActivities Office ageist@nd.edu 
Evenings o Prayer roln Around the W'"orld 
Experience aut-hent-ic prayer and nredit-at-ion as part-ofa series exploring t-he beliefand pract-ices oft-he world-'s great-fait-h t-radit-ions. 

JEWISH PRAYER 
Rabbi Eric J. Siroka Te1nple Beth-El, South Bend 
Wednesday, October 25 7-7:45 pm 330 Coleman-Morse 
Sponsored by : Campus Ministry International Student Services & Activities 
FOG Graduate Residences 

Wednesday, October 25, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 25, 2006 

Mate 
continued from page 28 
well," Louderback said. "She can volley and play big points well." 
Ciobanu took matches in straight sets until faltering to Rielley in the finals. 
"Cosmina has a great all-around g a m e , " Louderback said. "They both can come in and volley. That will help them both in matches down the road." 
Junior Brook Buck and sophomore Kelcy Tefft claimed the doubles title 
for Notre Dame, defeating Northwestern's Georgia Rose and Alexis Prousis 8-4. The performance qualified the pair for the ITA National 
Indoor Championships 
"We played really aggres­sive. We won the first five games and then let them get the next four," Buck said. "But on the change over we said, 'OK, let's get back to how 

~.­
all of her 
qualified for the Indoor Championships. 
Catrina Thompson entered the singles event as the No. 1 seed, but fell to Northwestern's Lauren Liu 6­2, 6-3 in the round of 32. Christian Thompson advanced to the round of 16 

Tops 
continued from page 28 
Boek returned to the Irish lineup Tuesday after missing Sunday's 1-0 win over Georgetown with a leg injury. 
"We played really aggressive. We won the first five games and then let them get the next four. But on the change over we said 'OK, let's get back to how aggressive we were in the first five.'" 
Brook Buck Irish player 

"Having her really makes
before losing to 

our offense flow," Waldrum
Iowa's Mili 

said. "She makes Hanks bet­
Veselinovic 6-3, 

ter, she makes Weissenhofer
6-2. Buck com­

better, she makes !junior
peted in singles 
play as well 

Amanda! Cinalli and [junior 
Susan I Pinnick and everyone
after winning 

else we play up front better."
the doubles 
tournament, 

Bock opened tho scoring 
entering as the 

with a goal 34 minutes into 
thn game off a pass from
No. 4 seed, but 
fell to 

Hanks. Barely 10 minutes 
Northwestern's 

latnr. Hanks put thn Irish up 
2-0 with her team-leading
S u z i e 

15th score of the year. 
Matzenauer in 

Woissenhofer added her
the first round 
6-4, 6-2. 

1Oth of the year in the sec­
"Catrina 

ond half to provide the final 
margin.
relies a lot on 

The game was the third
her serve and 
she just didn't serve well." Louderback 
said. "She missed a lot of first serves. Christian played alright, she just lost a elose one. 
"They and Brook have been 
"Catrina {Thompson] 
relies alot on her serve, and she just didn't serve well. " 
Jay Louderbeck Irish coach 
playing a lot of doubles match­es and haven't had many sin­
gles matches lately and that hurt them a lit­tle bit." Rielley and sophomore Katie Potts, along with Ciobanu and freshman Kali 
aggressive we were in the first five."' 
Notre Dame's top doubles team of seniors Christian and Catrina Thompson did not Krisik each advanced to the round of 16 in doubles play. 
Next up is the Eck Classic in Notre Dame's Eck Tennis Pavilion starting Nov. 3. 

1 
~!J)u 20041RONWOOD CJRCLE 273·8986 
www.womenscarecenter.org 

713 % W. LaSalle, historic 2 bedroom, living room, kitchen, an appliances with washer & dryer. $650 includes water. 
2 bedrooms. 1% baths. eat·in kitchen, Hving room w/ fireplace, dining room, hard wood floors, 1 car garage, appliances, 123 Sunnyside, $1100. 
Swanson Heights, bHevel 3 bedrooms, 2 baths, living room, family room. all appliances, 2 car attached garage, 17550 Bandel, a must to see, $1300. 
New home Staffordshire Estates 2341 Harwood, convenient to by-pass, great location, 3 bedrooms, 2 baths, kitchen and nook, living room, full basement, 2 car attached garage, $1250. 
Brand New Dublin Village Townhouse, 3 bedrooms, 3¥2 baths, kitchen, living room. dining room, family room, fireplace, all appliances, 2 car garage. $1400. 
2416 LW.W 4 bedrooms, 1¥2 baths, living room, dining room, 2 car garage $900. 
Furnished home $850/month includes alt utilities, 625 W. Colfax. 
Call Portage Realty, 272-7750. Ask for Sharon. 

contest in five days for Notre Thursday in Queens, N.Y. On Dame and the team's fifth the other side of the bracket, straight road game. Waldrum Louisville and Pittsburgh will 
said the Irish  play Thursday for  
will not prac­ the right to take on  
t i c e Wednesday or Thursday so they can  "Being on the tail end ofbeing on the road these past  West Virginia. Rutgers, Connecticut, Villanova and  
rest before their first Big East tourna­ment game,  few weeks and with midterm exams, mentally, I  Marquette also earned first round byes. The Huskies and Scarlet  
Sunday at Alumni Field. "Being on the tail end of  think they need a day or two away from {soccer]. "  Knights will play Friday in Piscataway, N.J., while the Wildcats  
being on  the  and Golden Eagles  
road past weeks  these few and  Randy Waldrum Irish coach  will face Sunday Milwaukee.  off in  
with midterm  The winners of  
exams,  men- this  weekend's  

tally, I think they need a day game will travel to Storrs, or two away from !soccer] to Conn., Nov. 3-5 for the con­catch up a little bit," he said. ference semifinals and finals. 
Notre Dame will face the winner of St. .John's and Contact Chris Khorey at Seton Hall, who will play ckhorey@nd.edu 

participate in the doubles 

DAN COOPER!The Observer 
portion of the tournament Contact Chris Hine at 

Freshman forward Michelle Weissenhoffer performs a flip throw-in during Notre Dame's 2-0 
because they have already chine6@nd.edu 

win over Rutgers Oct. 8. 


Wednesday, October 25, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

JJ~~J].
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ACTEX 

I I I t J 
©2005 Tribune Media SeJVices, Inc. 
f''f~~~ t J IEECDAC ±
I I r J 
www.jumble.com 
DILQUI 
rJ 
1 
Answer here: r 

Yesterday's Jumbles: SWOON SLANT BEYOND MAGNUM
I 

Answer: What Mom said when the puppy chewed on the table leg -"GNAW' YOU DON'T 
(Answers tomorrow) 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Catch red· 67 Touch handed

1 Related 68 Rooney and 37 Cooler Roddick
5 Acted like 38 Hose site 69 Crossing point 
9 -Detoo of "Star Wars" 42 It can give you 70 This, to Teodoro a sinking feeling 14 Glass piece 
43 About DOWN15 Olympic rings, 

44 Where to find
for one 1 Army helicopter 

sweaters 16 Heinz canful 2 Not just a bang
45 Mayberry souse 17 1981 Paul 47 Some basketball 3 Loafer liner 
Newman/Sally players: Abbr. 4 Name part in Field film 

49 Diamond some alumni 20 Loving murmur protector directories 
21 9-Across, e.g., 53 Separate 5 Maker of Reynolds Wrap 
informally 55 Most-used key 6 Bookstore 

22 Vain 58 Like a sunny section 
23 Hidden asset room 60 Dander 7 Conceit 
26 Oppressor 61 Oklahoma native 8 Tip politely 
28 Part of E.M.T.: 
62 What 17-, 23-, 9 Taper off Abbr. 
38-and 10 Find yummy29 Strident 

55-Across have 
complaint 11 Meineke stock 
65 Four for four, 
item31 Place for a say 12 Quick look buzzer 66 French 13 Sugar suffix 

32 AOL, e.g.: Abbr. abstraction 18 Original "Bonanza" airer 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 19 Chocolaty ~~~~~~~~~ desserts 
-::-t+.i-:-tlliiill.-.-='+'.::-t-:-11•• 25 "American Bandstand"

••••mn!l! 
extras

~-=t~iiil l!!!!'t:':-+-:-t-:-:-1 27 Jack's inferior l-7-1-::-188..:,.:..t~~::+=+=+::-fl!l!l 30 Retail store opening? 
~7:-~B.;..:..p!!!l_;,+:.+.-;.fl!l ~!1~~··· 33 _ 
generis
(unique) 
l!!!!'t-:t-:+:::1 34 Start the workday, maybe 
-:+,...,..r.,-+:-i 36 Big lead in a race 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

-:::+~;::+.::+:::+:+:-:T.:-t-:-11-m 24 Rock's Clapton 

38 Defeat  46 Catchphrase for  56 Like most  
democratically  Willie Mays  football passes  
39 Worked up  48 Actor Brent of "Star Trek:  57 Corp. V.LP.  
40 "The A-Team"  T.N.G."  59 End-of-the­ 
actor  50 Causes of Bikini  week cheer  
41 "Big" kid in the  blasts  62 Secret org.  
comics  51 Tell on  63 Union  
42 Physique,  52 Immediately  agreement?  
informally  54 Film teasers  64 Fannie  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address _____________________________________ City ________ State _____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Monica Arnold. 26: Ben Gillies. 27: Kevin Kline, 59: F. Murray Abraham, 67 
Happy Birthday: It has been feast or famine the past couple of years --so much to balance. Soon, you will start to see the fruits of your labor leading you down new pathways. Your numbers are 11, 17, 23, 25, 32, 39 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Mix travel with business. Check out a piece of property or look for an investment that will keep your money safe and growing. An older colleague will be surprised by your competitive position. 5 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You'll have lots to contend with today if you decide to get to the bottom of personal or emotional issues. Someone will give you something 
-
to think about that could alter your next move. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your emotions may take you in the wrong direction. Lies will not pay otJ, especially when it could affect your career. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Do something engaging or creative. Take a trip to unfamiliar places or get involved in something out of the ordinary that will bring you in contact with people who live differently than you. Love is in the stars. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Someone will broadside an idea you have. You will have to go it alone or keep business matters quiet to avoid complications. A problem in your personal life or with a child will keep you occupied. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Position yourself so you can take full advantage of an opportunity heading your way. You will be able to convince others to help you get where you are trying to go. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You have everything in place whether you feel you are prepared or not. A chance to realign with a group that is doing well should be in the works. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Intensity will be raised a notch and your need to secure your position must be realized. Now is the time to put up your best fight. Emotional matters must not be swept under the carpet. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): The very people you are relying on today are the ones who will let you down. Take the position of the do-all and be-ali person if you want to exceL 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 1 9): You have all the answers, so take a strong position and get what you want. Job interviews, advancement and making changes that will up your income can all be put into play. You have the Midas touch today. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Watch your cash flow and refuse to let anyone talk you out of money or anything else. You will be in a precarious position. The repercussions you will face if you don't think about what to do beforehand will be massive. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A change will be better than a rest You will be able to take the lead in whatever you pursue and a chance to make a financial gain is looking very good. If you have a pending settlement, finish it off today. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are strong, determined and willing to go the extra mile. You have magnetism and intensity. You are focused, gifted and competitive. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenia/ast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

E.')I.C.USt... t-\E 51'-., 'eM\ } \-\ F>NE. A CoP1 OF '' ·n-U:~ 
f'RINc..ESS BF-\DE t't> U~E lo WP\I<:.r\ IN 'fOU F.. ""SoRt:>AN 
\-\AU.. OF SC...IE..~<..E.. 
t:>l t:n\AL­

ALEC WHITE
JOCULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 
UH,  E.,_C.U'&C.  ME ,  ~t>  "jou  RE!-\EKS~  
'e>Ui  l"k\S  S'-.tr-lt;;­ "FRA.  
'1/lSUAL-I"Z..AitoN  Roc.\<.."  /N  <:A~E:.  W  
-n·\EA""'CR.E.  \$  Nt>'T  
A  lo'l -WE:.  CNL"f  
\IISUAL-IZ.E.  \IE~'-{  
FAI-lt.'-j  \1--\INC:i"S  
1-'\E.R.E.  


THE OBSERVER 
Wednesday, October 25, 2006 

PORTS 
page 28 
MEN'S BASKETBALL -RECRUITING 

ND grabs two verbals for 2007 class 
By BOB GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame secured two high sehoul verbal commitments for the class of 2007 early this week ­New York forward Tyrone Nash on Monday and Kentucky guard Ty Proffitt Tuesday -according to recruiting Web sites Scout.com and Rivals.com as well as an arti­cle in The (Louisville) Courier­Journal. 
Nash -who is listed between 6­foot-6, 210 pounds and 6-foot-7, 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
215 pounds -is a senior at Northfield Mount Hermon School 
i n 
Northfield, Mass., but is originally f r o m Woodmere, 
N.Y. Nash narrowed his choices to Notre Dame, St. John's and Kentucky 
before making his decision. 


Nash received a late summer offer from Kentucky, but chose to reclassify himself to the dass of 2007, opting for a final year of high school eligibility. As a senior in 2005-06, Nash averaged 17.0 points and 15.0 rebounds per game before transferring from Lawrence Woodmere Academy in Long Island to his current prep school. 
Proffitt ~ a senior at South Laurel High School in London, Ky. -is listed between 6-foot-3 and 6­foot-4, and weighs 195 pounds. He averaged 12.9 points per game on 44.3 percent shooting as a junior 
(28.4 percent from three-point range), while totaling 68 assists and 54 blocks. 
The guard also had interest in Kentucky. Eastern Kentucky and Western Kentucky, according to information from Scout.com. 
Brey cannot comment on high school recruits until the first day of the national signing period Nov. 8, due to NCAA recruiting regula­tions. The players could not be reached for eomment Tuesday. 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 

Cincinnati kidding 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
Cincinnati's season was on 

the line, and Notre Dame had 
little to play for. 
It didn't matter. Sophomores Kerri Hanks 

and Brittany Bock and fresh­
-man Michele Weissenhofer each scored goals as the Irish (17-0-1, 10-0-1 Big East) ended the Bearcats' season with a 3-0 win on the road Tuesday. "They never were much of a threat to us at all," Notre Dame coach Randy Waldrum said. "We created a ton of good chances." Cincinnati (7-9-2, 3-7-1 Big 
East) came into the game trailing Seton Hall by one point in the National Division and needed a win to pass the Pirates for fourth place to qualify for the conference tournament. No. 1 Notre Dame, which had already clinched a first round bye, was playing for seeding in the NCAA Tournament next month. 
"I would rate our effort tonight very high, especially with nothing left in the confer­ence for us to play for," Waldrum said. "Of course, we do want that top NCAA seed and our kids are hungry for that." 
see TOPS/page 26 


MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish begin Big East tournament 
By ERIC RETTER Associate Sporrs Editor 

No. 6 Notre Dame will see a repeat opponent for the first time this year today. . 
But the stakes are a bit high­er this time around as the Irish (12-4-2, 8-3-0 Big East) will take on DePaul at 7 p.m. at Alumni Field in the first round of the Big East conference tour­nament. Notre Dame finished the season in third place in the Big East Blue division after fin­ishing its season with a 2-1 loss at No.4 West Virginia and a 1-0 win over No. 14 Connecticut. 
The Blue Demons (5-11-2, 4­7-0 Big East) limped into the playoffs, losing three out their 
see PLAYOFF/page 24 


JENNIFER KANG/The Observer Irish forward Justin McGeeney pushes his way past Marquette defenders Nathan Sabich and Mehdi Eslami Sept. 27. 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles end year with MIAAfoe 
By DAN MURPHY Sporrs Writer 
Saint Mary's finishes the reg­ular season today with a 4 
p.m. home game against Tri­State. The Belles (4-8-1, 3-3-1 MIAA) hope to gain some momentum heading into the postseason with a win over the winless Thunder. 
"We are very confident in a win." senior goalkeeper Laura Heline said. "It's important for us to continue playing at the level we have been and not to drop to the level of a strug­gling team such as Tri-State." 
The small. 13-player Tri­State team has been dominat­ed all year, scoring only six goals to their opponents 62. Senior Jenny Sharkely and freshman Jackie Havenaar are tied for the team lead with two goals apiece. 
Sharkey is responsible for the team's lone goal in MIAA play this year. The unassisted strike came with 10 minutes remaining in a 7-1 loss to Hope on Oct. 11. 
The Belles have won the past four meetings between the two teams by a combined score of 26-4. The streak dates back to an 8-1 victory on Oct. 5, 2004. 
Heline has given up one goal in each of the contests, but she 
see TRI-STATE/page 23 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Rielley defeats teammate in win 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 

It must be a special moment for a coach when one of his players wins a tournament. It is even more special when two of his players fight through a field of 64 to face each other in the finals. 
That's what happened this week in the ITA Midwest Regionals at Michigan State when freshman Colleen Rielley defeated fellow Notre Dame freshman Cosmina Ciobanu 7-5, 6-4 to 
grab the singles champi­onship Tuesday. 
"I don't think we have ever had something like this happen before," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "It's tough for freshmen to get to the finals in this." 
Rielley became the fourth player to grab the title at the event, the first since Michelle Dasso in 2000. She won all of her matches in straight sets except for the semifinals, when she beat Illinois' Megan Fudge in a tight match 4-6, 6-1, 7-5. 
"Colleen really competes 
see MATE/page 26 


NFL
MEN'S TENNIS ClUB SPORTS NFL
SMC VOllEYBAll 
MLB 
LLI 
Ultimate and men's 

San Diego linebacker 
Seahawks quarterback 
u Sheeva Parbhu and 
St. Louis 5,Saint Mag's 3, 

Shawne Merriman
z Ryan Keckley win ITA rowing teams continue 

Matt Hasslebeck
Tri-State Detroit 0

-
appeals four-game
Midwest Regional 
their fall seasons. 

complains about E.J.
Belles eke out tight 
Cardinals pitcher
::5 
Doubles Championship. 

suspension after violat­
Henderson's tackle. 
victory on the road. 
Chris Carpenter pitches
~ 

ing the NFL' s substance 
eight shutout innings to
cc 
abuse policy. 
lead Cardinals to Game 3win. 

page 21 
page 20!i page 22 page 22 page 20 page 19
en 






