
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 60 FRIDAY. DECEMBER 1. 2006 

Jenkins' pay remitted to Holy Cross 
President's salary among.Zowest ofnational university leaders' compensation packages 

By EILEEN DUFFY Assistant News Editor 

While some college leaders' salaries are climbing into the millions of dollars, the total compensation for Notre Dame's president was last registered at just $476,325. Whatever the sum, in University President Father John Jenkins' case, it's his religious order -the Indiana Province of the Priests of the Holy Cross ­that reaps the benefits, not his llank account. 
The Chronicle of Higher Education's annual "Executive Compensation" report lists the salaries of public and private university leaders. While reporters may access the 2006-7 measure­ments for public schools, fig­ures for private schools become available when their tax forms are released, near­ly two years later. The $476,325 number thus corre­sponds to University President Emeritus Father Edward Malloy's final year, 2004-5. 
Of the leaders in the 853 universities, colleges and specialized schools surveyed, Audrey Doberstein of Delaware's Wilmington College -who stepped down in June of 2005 -garnered the highest pay, with a total compensation of $2,7 46,241. 
see JENKINS/page 4 

Engineering enrolltnent an issue for U.S., ND 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
In today's increasingly tech­nological world, the job prospects for engineers after college are plentiful, but at Notre Dame and at schools across the country, fewer stu­dents are choosing engineering as a career. 
The critical need for young engineers nationwide and the decreasing numbers of engi­neering majors is the basis of a new guidebook for students and parents called "21 Things Every Future Engineer Should Know." 
James Merz, interim dean of the University's College of Engineering, said there has been a decline in the number of students going into engineer­ing since he attended Notre Dame in the 1950s. 

The reason for the declining numbers, he thinks, is "lack of enthusiasm nationwide for going into engineering -a perception that engineering's very hard, and 'why should I work that hard'?" 
Catherine Pieronek, the director of Academic Affairs and the Women's Engineering Program, said the enrollments in engineering schools have been declining since the mid-
see ENGINEERS/page 8 

smc fundraiser dinner benefits Cambodia 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
During the past three days, the Student International Business Council has hosted three events commemorating Cambodian Awareness Week, shedding light on the contin­ued economic and social dev­astation the country suffered after the Khmer Rouge incur­sions and genocide of the Vietnamese during the 1970s and 1980s. 
On Tuesday night, the SIBC showed the film "S21" and on Wednesday the movie "Bomb Hunters." It also hosted a Thai/Cambodian dinner Thursday to raise money and awareness for its Protecting the Earth and Protecting Yourself (PEPY) subdivision. 
"We were so surprised and excited by the amazing turnout," sophomore member Liz McLaughlin sa~d. "It's dis­turbing when you hear people ask if Cambodia is in Africa, so we're really glad that we're educating more people about [the conditions] there." 
PEPY, which is a non-gov­ernment organization, was founded and created by Notre Dame Class of 2002 alumna Daniella Pappy, and its aim is to promote increased aware­ness of Cambodian society. 
The Notre Dame chapter was created after senior SIBC member Tim Rann volun­teered in Cambodia two sum­mers ago and met Pappy dur­ing his time spent there. 
"I was really impressed with 
see CAMBODWpage 9 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Index rates countries' assistance 
Roodman stresses need to aid development 
By EVA BINDA News Writer 

While attempts to measure just how much the world's 21 richest countries are helping the development of poor countries can often seem tainted by opinion, Center for Global Development research fellow David Roodman claims there is an objective tool to judge this -the Commitment to Development Index. 
Roodman spoke Thursday in the Hesburgh Center about the Index and the Center for Global Development, a think tank in Washington, D.C. founded in November 2001 that "focuses on what rich countries are doing to help poor countries," looking pri­marily at government policy. 
The Index takes size into account when considering countries, which explains why, for example, a small country like Denmark can rank higher than the U.S. or Canada. 
"We're interested in seeing if countries are living up their potential," Roodman said. 
Seven components go into the Commitment to Development Index: foreign aid, trade (specifically, open­ness to the exports of devel­oping countries), investment, migration, environment, secu­
see POVERTY/page 9 

Student trains for Paralytnpics 
Blind sophomore swimmer hopes to participate in the China games 
By MEGHAN WONS News Writer 

Sophomore Ashley Nashleanas hasn't let the fact that she was born blind inter­fere with her vision -her sights are set on making the 
U.S. Paralympic swim team for the summer 2008 games in Beijing, China. 
Nashleanas has been swim­ming for a decade, and at just 20 years old, she has already competed in the Paralympic Games -the second-largest sporting event in the world, behind the Olympics. She swam the 50-and 100-meter freestyle as well as the 1DO­meter backstroke at the sum­mer 2004 games in Athens. 
She was just a junior in 
see BLIND/page 9 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Bleeding 
green, blue 

and gold 
Whenever I meet someone for the first time and they learn that I am from Green Bay, Wis., I undoubtedly get asked about one of the following three things: cold weather, the dairy industry or foot­ball. So let me clear a few 
Kristy King 
things up 
before I go any 
further. It is 

Photographer
not really cold 
outside until 

the wind chill hits below zero. Happy 
cows come from Wisconsin, not 
California -as a certain commercial 
asserts. And yes, I will join my city in 
mourning by dressing in black for a 
week when Brett Favre retires. 
Growing up in Green Bay, the NFL's 
smallest city, football penetrates nearly 
every aspect of life. We are the only com­
munity-owned major league professional 
sports team in America, with nearly 
112,000 people holding stock in the 
Packers. Every Packer game at Lambeau 
Field has been sold out since 1960. The 
waiting list for season tickets is 71,500 
people long. That adds up to 35 years. 
Most Green Bay residents are placed 
on that waiting list a few minutes after 
receiving a birth certificate, and it is not 
uncommon to will Packer season tickets 
to a family member upon one's death. 
School is cancelled for the parade and 
ceremony that follows a Super Bowl vic­
tory. It would be an understatement to 
say that the identity of our city revolves 
around the Packers. 

When I first came to South Bend, I had 
no idea that I could find a place so simi­
lar to Green Bay. South Bend's intense 
obsession with Notre Dame football con­
stantly reminded me of my hometown ·and I soon realized that the two teams had more in common than I thought. 
The founder of the Packers, Curly 
Lambeau, attended Notre Dame before 
he established the Packers in 1921. 
While at Notre Dame, he played under 
the legendary Knute Rockne. Lambeau 
was so fond of his alma mater that he 
chose navy blue and gold for the 
Packers' original colors. Now, more than 
80 years after the founding of the 
Packers, no other college has produced 
more Packer players than Notre Dame, 
with 50 total, including Heisman winner 
Paul Hornung. 

Although the Packers' origins have strong ties to Notre Dame, I think the most significant similarity is the dedica­tion of their fans. Through the good, the bad and the ugly, Packer and Notre Dame fans both stand by their teams to the end. We rejoice in the victories and feel the bitter sting of a particularly harsh defeat, but regardless of what happens on the field, nothing can alter our commitment. That's what makes football cities like Green Bay and South Bend so special. They are communities that support their teams through it all, instead of cities full of bandwagon jumpers who are only fans when their team has a successful season. 
The true test of fans is how they react 
during the challenging times. Green Bay 
and Notre Dame fans have yet to fail that 
test, which makes me proud to be part of 
each community. 

Contact Kristy King at 
kking01 @saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, December 1, 2006 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE BEST STATE IN THE UNITED STATES, AND WHY? 


Danny Castellanos  Tom Hofhnan  Kevin Marvinac  Mike Mesterharm  Phil Pezza  Patrick Riche!  
sophomore Dillon  sophomore O'Neill  sophomore Siegfried  sophomore O'Neill  sophomore Morrissey  sophomore Dillon  
"A state of happiness. ,  "Texas, even though we're  "Wyoming, because it's  "Colorado, because it's hip  "Thrillinois, because ofthe  "State ofdenial -enough  




bad enough to really easy to to be a square. " secede again. " win high school 

Legally blind woman, 94, bowls a 244 
CENTRALIA, Wash. ­Esther Medley of Centralia is legally blind, but when she bowls she can glimpse a bit of the floor to line up with the lane. 
Medley, 94, can't see straight ahead, so her 86­year-old husband Ralph tells her which pins are left after her first ball. 
That's how Medley recent­ly bowled a score of 244, which included eight strikes, at Fairway Lanes in Centralia. It was the second­highest score of the year for her league. 
The Medleys have been 
TODAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 ::1: 
1.&.1

:: ~ 
.... 
II( (,) 


state championships -in any sport." 

old wife, who have been sep­arated since July, have five children ranging in age from 1 to 13 years old, Shupe said. Jackson apparently started fighting with his wife after she and the children returned to their Conyers home on Thanksgiving. 
At one point during the fight, Jackson allegedly attempted to stuff his wife inside the kitchen oven, which had been left on to heat the house, Shupe said. The woman escaped and went to the sheriff's office with visible head injuries, Shupe said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
bowling in the senior league since 1979. 
Man allegedly tries to put wife In oven 
CONYERS, Ga. -A man has been arrested after allegedly trying to force his estranged wife into an oven on Thanksgiving in front of their five children. 
Martin Luther Jackson, 31, of Decatur, has been charged with aggravated assault, aggravated battery, cruelty to children and possession of marijuana after the Nov. 23 incident, said Sgt. Jodi Shupe of the Rockdale County Sheriff's Office. 
Jackson and his 29-year-
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 



Chi, baby." said." 
IN BRIEF 

Circle K, Knott I!all and the Class of 2009 will sponsor "The Aidan Project" Saturday from 11 a.m. to 2 
p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Students can help make fleece blankets and hats to donate to local chemotherapy patients. 
The Student Union Board will be presenting the film "Accepted" tonight at 8 p.m. in DeBartolo 101. Tickets are $3. 
All Basilica choirs will participate in Advent Lessons and Carols Sunday at 7:15 
p.m. in the Basilica. This one­hour service will include seasonal music provided by the ND Liturgical Choir, Women's Liturgical Choir, Basilica Schola, Folk Choir and Handbell Choir. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will perform its Christmas Concert Dec. 8 from 9 p.m to 
10:30 in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets: $8, $6 faculty/staff, $5 seniors, and $3 all students 
Christmas at the CoMo Benefit Concert by the ND Celebration Choir is Dec. 6 at 
7:30 p.m. in the first floor Coleman Morse student lounge. International students will provide reflections of Christmas in their home coun­tries. There is no admission charge, but a freewill offering 
will  be  sent  to  St.  Jude's  
Primary  School,  Jinja,  
Uganda.  

To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


30 HIGH 17 LOW 



29 28 
0 

HIGH 35 HIGH HIGH HIGH
...I 

LOW 32 LOW LOW LOW 
30 
17 

Atlanta 52135 Boston 64140 Chicago 33 I 8 Denver 381 15 Houston 59 I 34 Los Angeles 71 I 51 Minneapolis 29 I 16 New York 69144 Philadelphia 71 I 43 Phoenix 67 I 41 Seattle 41 I 33 St. Louis 31 I 14 Tampa 83 I 66 Washington 72 I 40 

Friday, December 1, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
We now offer the most popular student apartments and townhouses in the area! 
Leasing for 2007-2008 school year 
Screen-writer lectures on success 
'Family Guy' scripter, co-star preaches persistence, discusses challenges 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT News Writer 
"Family Guy" writer and co­star Mike Henry shared a behind-the-scenes look at the life of a cartoon star with 80 audi­ence members in DeBartolo Thursday. 
"Stick to your guns," was Henry's advice to hopeful Hollywood aspirants. 
"When you're 32 and broke it's depressing, but I couldn't settle for anything else," he said. "If you can do anything else in the world besides being in Hollywood and be happy, do it. But for me, that was impossible." 
Henry's life was not one of instant success. He didn't land the full-time job writing for "Family Guy" until he was 32, and that was only after many false starts and years of poverty. 
"Family Guy" is a popular car­toon on the Fox network enter­ing its sixth season of production, and Henry attributes the show's success to the fact that each episode takes 10 months to pro­duce. 
"Being rewritten for months and months makes our jokes much stronger than a normal sit­com, which is shot in a week and can't be re-shot," he said. 
The concept which drives "Family Guy," Henry said, is both the desire to "make fun of every­thing" and the idea that each individual joke will only be understood by 10 percent of the audience -but that 10 percent "$30,000 in credit card debt." will enjoy the joke that much The success of his short films, more. however, led to an offer as a 

Henry joked how his career in writer for the new show "Family Hollywood began by working at Guy," created by Seth the Gap. As a 25-year-old bent MacFarlane. on breaking into show business, "Family Guy" premiered after Henry said he eked out a meager the Super Bowl in 1999 -one of living doing stand~up comedy, the most coveted time slots in tel­waiting to be noticed after m<;>v-evision, Henry said -and the ing to Los Angeles. ' show has been wildly successful 
After three years, he moved thanks primarily to support from back to his home in Vrrginia and college and middle-aged men. 
made a video of himself act­ing as what is "When you ,re 3 2 and 
now the broke it's depressing, 
"Family Guy" 
but I couldn ,t settle for 
character Cleveland. anything else. If you 
From this can do anything else 
small begin­
in the world besides 
ning, he said, he started film­being in Hollywood 
ing parodies of and be happy, do it. 
popular com­
But for me, that was
mercials for a film class and impossible. ,, eventually made a com­
Mike Henry
mercial for a 

writer and co-star
friend's restau­

"Family Guy" 
rant. This spot went on to win a national ad 
award, and Henry decided to thing crazy, do it, and keep at it," move to New York to "get on he said. 'Saturday Night live."' Henry, a Catholic, said he 
Henry eventually met "SNL" hopes he won't go to hell for con­creator Lome Michaels and land­troversial "Family Guy" jokes, ed a job to create short films to and added that he "hate[s] USC." air between programs. After one year in New York, Henry said he Contact John-Paul Witt at had accumulated nothing but jwittl@nd.edu 
Henry said the show faced can­cellation from a hostile Fox stu­dio in 2002, but the sale of three million "Family Guy" DVDs that year gave it enough momen­tum to continue. 
The reason why many peo­ple with poten­tial fail, Henry said, is that they don't try hard enough. 
"If you feel like your dream in life is to go out and do some­


Battle of the Bands to support local groups 
By MANDl STIRONE News Writer 

The Dance Marathon Fundraising Committee will bring four bands to Saint Mary's Saturday night for a Battle of the Bands. 
Harper's Valley, Solus and Sola, Katuius and Rebecca Schiappa will be battling it out for studio time, photo packages and gift certificates, said Frances Bruder, assistant director of Student Activities at Saint Mary's. 
The event will take place in the Saint Mary's Student Center · Lounge from 6 p.m. to 9, and costs $10 at the door. T-shirts will also be sold at the event for $10. 
The bands are primarily com­posed of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students with one band from outside of the schools. Notre Dame sophomores Ashley Ahn and David Lee form the band Solus and Sola. 
Harper's Valley is made up of six Notre Dame students: junior Will Weicher, sophomore Chris Terschluse, senior Chris Urban, junior Chris Doolin, senior Jim Weicher and junior Rob Mineo. The band viewed this as a last hurrah since Will Weicher and Doolin are both going abroad next semester, Will Weicher said. The band played at Dance Marathon last year, and after some Saint Mary's students e­mailed group members, they decided to participate in the Battle of the Bands. The band could be classified as rock/jam and plays everything from class­ing rock to 90s pop, Weicher said. 
Schiappa, a Saint Mary's fresh­man, heard about Battle of the Bands through an e-mail sent to Saint Mary's students and was interested. Schiappa described her original lyrics as funny and "SNL-like," saying they're meant to be "just kind of joking around in an awkward way." 
Dance Marathon Fundraising chair Sarah Voss and her com­mittee are heading up the Battle of the Bands, the first big public fundraiser for Dance Marathon. The committee is hoping to raise about a thousand dollars and draw 200 people, Voss said. 
"It would be a good way to get the community excited for Dance Marathon," Voss said. 
One hundred percent of the proceeds from the event, includ­ing T-shirt sales, are going toward Dance Marathon and Riley Hospital. 
The Dance Marathon Committee plans to organize other fundraisers and events, including a dinner and a Mass at Saint Mary's. While it is also look­ing to plan an eating contest, a chapstick sale and a pasta din­ner, these events are all up in the air, said Dance Marathon chair Francesca Johnson. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Notre Dame Apartments 
835 Notre Dame Avenue • 2-bedroom Apartments 
• 
Spacious 1,1 00 sq. ft units 

• 
Within Walking Distance to ND (2 Blocks) 


• Off~Street Parking 
• 
On-Site laundry 

• 
Water Utility lncJuded in Rent 

• 
Central Air 

• 
Secured Exterior Doors with Intercom System 


·Lafayette Square Townhouses 
424 N. Frances Street 
• 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhouses 

• 
6 Blocks from Campus • 2 Bathrooms 


• Off~Street Parking 
... ·:·:;::::: 

Calf today -these units are renting quickly 
Vtew all of our houses, apartments and townhouses at www.kramerhouses.com 

Contact Kramer at (574) 315-5032 or (574) 234-2436 
Friday, December 1, 2006
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 


Jenkins 
continued from page 1 

The highest-paid public uni­versity president was David P. Roselle at the University of Delaware, who will receive just under $1 million for 2006­7. 
Of the 33 schools classified as research universities with "very high research activity," Vanderbilt University's E. Gordon Lee earned the highest sum -and the third-highest of all private universities ­receiving about $1.2 million in 2004-5. Malloy's salary, on the other hand, was the second­lowest in the group. 
"I would say that the $400,000 level for an elite pri­vate institution is in the domain of normal, but maybe slightly low," said Paul Fain, a staff reporter at The Chronicle of Higher Education. 
Presidential compensation, Fain explained, includes not only the base salary and retirement pay, but also deferred compensation -pay set aside by the institution not available to the president until he reaches an agreed-upon requirement. Performance and retention bonuses can also be added to the mix. 
Whether the result of bonus­es or normal salary increases, Malloy's compensation did rise from $260,264 in the 1996-7 fiscal year to the aforemen­tioned $476,325, Fain noted. 
But those increases didn't mean more money for Malloy, and they don't mean more money for Jenkins. What's growing, rather, is the com­mon purse shared by the Priests of the Holy Cross. 
"It's interesting that at reli­gious institutions, the leader will donate his/her salary to the religious order," Fain said. "It's pretty unique in higher education, now." 
Like all the Holy Cross priests at Notre Dame, Jenkins took a vow of poverty that requires him to donate any money he earns from employ­ment to the order. 
"A diocesan priest, like from a parish, doesn't take those vows, so he is able to own things," said Father Anthony Szakaly, the assistant provin­cial for the Indiana Province of the Holy Cross Priests, which is headquartered in South Bend. "We don't own anything ourselves -everything we have belongs to the province, to the Holy Cross. 
"We give everything we have, and we take what we need from the common purse." 

In addition to funding the Even people who are critical of priests' personal expenditures, high presidential pay recog­money from the common nize that," he said. "They're purse is used to care for the working 18-hour days, retired religious. The Indiana fundraising, interacting with province also donates to the everyone from students to general adminis­lawmakers tration, head­to parents to
"Religious institutions 
quartered in faculty. 
Rome, as well as have a lot ofcredibility There is a 
its missions in in some people's minds sense among East Africa and some presi­
for their leaders not 
Chile. dents that 'I
earning anything for 
"Obviously, want to be Father Jenkins is doing these incredibly taken care president, [and] of, I want to
difficult jobs. " 
his salary is a sig-have my nificant one," family taken Szakaly said. Paul Fain care of, I "But, it's not the reporter want to be 
only salary. All of The Chronicle of Higher comfort­
our priests -able."'
Education

whether in a And that's parish or high why presi­school or at University of dents of religious institutions, Notre Dame -all their like Notre Dame, are so salaries come into the com­impressive, Fain said. mon purse." "There's a different ethos 
That common purse will there. Notre Dame is a unique likely be growing, if presiden­place," he said. "Religious tial salaries like Jenkins' stay institutions have a lot of credi­on the rise. Fain said the bility in some people's minds increase reflects just how hard for their leaders not earning presidents work. anything for doing these 
"These jobs are really tough. incredibly difficult jobs ... At Notre Dame, you add the extra element. He is 'Father' Jenkins. He has to have moral leadership qualities that maybe you don't have at other universities. It's an extra role he has to play, and it makes it a really challenging job." 
The role of professor is one that Malloy continued to play throughout his presidency. Jenkins, on the other hand, taught his last philosophy course in the spring of 2003, before he was inaugurated president. 
"He's got a big job and he's still new to it, so he's got a good bit to learn," said Paul Weithman, chair of the philos­ophy department. "I would love to have him teaching for us because he's a very good teacher, but the most impor­tant thing he can do for us is be a good president. 
''I'm most happy having him devote his time, attention and energy to that." 
As Weithman noted, Jenkins' busy travel schedule and "very visible" role in the American Catholic Church might impede him from best fulfilling his professorial duties -but Weithman thinks Jenkins is finding other ways to do the very things teaching allows. 
"Given what I know of him, I don't have any doubt he has ways to stay intellectually vital because he loves to read, think and write," Weithman said. "Also, one argument for teach­ing is it helps the president to stay in touch with the student ... but I'm sure he's in touch with students anyway." 
He also is in touch with his religious brothers, Szakaly said. 
"Right now, Father Jenkins is being called to be president of Notre Dame; before, Father Malloy was called to be presi­dent; now Malloy will be back in classroom, contributing in that way. We'r.e all working together for the same goal of promoting the mission of Holy Cross in building the kingdom as God gives us the gifts to do so. Jenkins lives with us; he joins us for common meals and common prayer. 
"He's part of our community in a very real way." 
Contact Eileen DuffY at eduff}r1@nd.edu 


o.,:.,:ea.ing  Specials!  
lndoor/Outd•oo~r·'lre•r~.j  Basketball  
Free Tanning  
Heated Pool  
Relaxing Jacuzzi  
Gated Community  






ORLD & NATION 
Friday, December 1, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRFSERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Annan calls for $4 billion in aid 
UNITED NATIONS -Secretary-General Kofi Annan appealed for nearly $4 billion Thursday to help millions of people in 29 countries "whose lives have been crippled by conflict and calamity." 
He said the people in need -overwhelm­ingly women and children -"subsist on the very margins of society" in places like Somalia, the Palestinian territories and Congo. 
"These 27 million individuals seek not a hand out, but a hand up," Annan said at the launch of the 2007 humanitarian appeal. "Their names may be unknown to us, their lives hidden from view, but their cry for our attention must not go unanswered." 
Prime minister faces government revoh 
BAGHDAD -Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki faced a widening revolt within his divided government as two senior Sunni politicians joined prominent Shiite lawmak­ers and Cabinet members in criticizing his policies. 
Vice President Tariq al-Hashemi said he wanted to see al-Maliki's government gone and another "understanding" for a new coalition put in place with guarantees that ensure collective decision making. 
"There is a clear deterioration in security and everything is moving in the wrong direction," the Sunni leader told The Associated Press. "This situation must be redressed as soon as possible. If they contin­ue, the country will plunge into civil war." 
Al-Maliki's No. 2, Deputy Prime Minister Salam Zikam Ali al-Zubaie, also a Sunni, argued that the president's government failed to curb the spread of sectarian poli­tics. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Rice objects to Indian nuclear fuel law 
WASHINGTON -Secretary of State Condol­eezza Rice says relations with India could suffer if Congres..'> fails to satisfY White House objections to legislation that would allow shipments of U.S. civil­ian nuclear fuel to India. 
Critics of the plan say the Bush administration wants to remove what they say are the few remaining restraint'> against the spread of nuclear weapons. The plan, which President Bush consid­ers a priority, would reverse decades of U.S. anti­proliferation policy. 
Rice's misgivings were expressed in a letter to leading lawmakers that The Associated Press obtained Thursday. 
ller intervention could complicate prospects for approval of the legislation. Lawmakers are trying to finish work on a final version of the bill before they leave for the year. They must reconcile com­peting bill<; pa'ised by the House and Senate. 

Sea World orca whale attacks trainer 
SAN DIEGO -Some days, killer whales just wake up on the wrong side of the pool. 
A 2 1!2-ton orca that dragged a trainer under­water during a show at Sea World may have been put out by a spat with another whale, grumpy because of the weather or just irritable from a stomach ache, according to marine mammal expert'>. 
"Some mornings they just wake up not as will­ing to do the show as others," said Ken Balcomb, direetor of the Center for Whale Research. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Girl on trial for attempted murder 
PERU. Ind.-A 12-year-old girl accused of setting her sleeping mother's bed on fire and driving away in the family car with her two younger siblings wept and embraced her mother during a hearing on juvenile charges of' arson and attempted murder. 
The seventh-grader denied the allegations during Wednesday's hearing before Miami County Circuit Court Rosemary Higgins Burke, who set a Dec. 20 fact-finding hearing -the equivalent of a trial -for the girl and ordered her to remain at a juvenile detention center. 
TURKEY 


Pope prays in Mosque with cleric 
Benedict XVI hopes visit will help find 'the way ofpeace for the good ofall humanity' 
Associated Press 
ISTANBUL Pope 
Benedict XVI joined an 
Islamic cleric in prayers 
under the towering dome of 
Istanbul's most famous 
mosque Thursday in a pow­
erful gesture seeking to 
transform his image among 
Muslims from adversary to 
peacemaker. 
The pope's minute of 

prayer was done in silence, but the message of reconcil­. iation was designed to res­onate loudly nearly three months after he provoked worldwide fury for remarks on violence and the Prophet 
Muhammad. 
"This visit will help us 
find together the way of 
peace for the good of all 
humanity," the pope said 
inside the 17th-century 
Blue Mosque -in only the 
second papal visit in history 
to a Muslim place of wor­
ship. Benedict's predeces­
sor, John Paul II, made a 
brief stop in a mosque in 
Syria in 2001. 
Benedict's steps through 
a stone archway and into 
the mosque's carpeted 
expanse capped a day of 
deep symbolism and lofty 
goals. Hours earlier, he 
stood beside the spiritual 
leader of the world's 
Orthodox Christians and 

passionately encouraged steps to end the nearly too, bowed his head and his Blue Mosque after its elabo­effort to become the first 
1,000-year divide between lips moved as if reciting rate blue tiles. Muslim nation in the 
their churches. words. The pope presented the European Union. 
The pope walked to the Before the pope left, he imam with a mosaic show­But Benedict also has set mosque after touring thanked Cagrici "for this ing four doves. down his own demands. another majestic tribute to moment of prayer." "Let us pray for brother­The pope repeated calls faith: the 1,500-year-old "A single swallow can't hood and for all humanity," for greater freedoms for Haghia Sofia and its bring spring," Cagrici told Benedict said in Italian. religious minorities ­remarkable mix of' Quranic the pope, who ends his frrst The Vatican spokesman, including the tiny Christian calligraphy and Christian papal trip to a Muslim the Rev. Federico Lombardi, community in Turkey ­mosaics from its legacy as a nation Friday. "But many said the mosque visit was and denounced divisions marvel of early Christianity swallows will follow and we added as a "sign of respect" between Christians as a and then a coveted prize of will enjoy a spring in this to Muslims. "A (Christian) "scandal." Islam's expansion. world." believer can pray in any Benedict has made reach­
At the mosque, the pope The pope received a place, even a mosque," ing out to the world's more removed his shoes and put painting showing the Sea of Lombardi said, calling it an than 250 million Orthodox on white slippers. Then he Marmara and a glazed tile "intimate, personal prayer." a centerpiece of his papacy walked beside Mustafa decorated with a dove. The The pope has offered and has set the difficult goal Cagrici, the head cleric of mosque is officially known wide-ranging messages of of "full unity" between· the Istanbul. Facing the holy as the Sultan Ahmet reconciliation to Muslims two ancient branches of city of Mecca -in the tra­Mosque after the Ottoman since coming to Turkey on Christianity, which split in dition of Islamic worship -sultan Ahmet I, who Tuesday, including appeals the 11th century over dis­Cagrici said: "Now I'm ordered its construction. for greater understanding putes including papal going to pray." Benedict, But it's widely called the and support for Turkey's authority. 



Group urges pullback of troops 
expected to provide political cover to be conditioned on the Iraqi government 
Associated Press 
President Bush to meaningfully shift his establishing benchmarks to improve 

WASHINGTON -A bipartisan com­policies in an unpopular war. Yet advis­security. Many remaining U.S. forces mission on U.S. options in Iraq will rec­ers to the panel and others aware of its would be lighter support and intelli­ommend a gradual reduction of work indicated the recommendations gence unit'>, said the official, who spoke American forces in Iraq and a signifi­will not be dramatically different from on condition of anonymity because the cant diplomatic shift that enlists U.S. current policy or from ideas already panel's deliberations were private. adversaries to stabilize the increasingly under debate within the administration. The approximately 1 00-page report chaotic country, officials familiar with Bush has repeatedly rejected a will indicate the presence of U.S. troops the panel's deliberations said Thursday. wholesale pullout or what he calls arti­is part of the problem in Iraq, said 
The report will endorse troop with­ficial deadlines. another official who also requested drawals beginning as soon as early "This business about a graceful exit anonymity. The panel will demand next year but set no deadlines, the offi­just simply has no realism to it at all," more accountability from the Iraqi gov­cials said. U.S. forces could also be Bush said Thursday. ernment, although it is not clear how slowly repositioned away from the front A former top U.S. official consulted by progress would be measured or if there lines. the commission said he expected the would be specific benchmarks, the offi­
The much-anticipated report is recommended withdrawal would not cial said. 
page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT Friday, December 1, 2006 

A MEMORIAL MASS 



FORCAITLIN B 


MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2006, 5:15 PM 
BASILICA Of THE SACRED HEART 

CAITLIN M. BRANN 
OCTOBER 30, 1984-NOVEMBER 10. 2006 
THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Friday, December 1, 2006 
page 7 

Microsoft releases new Vista 
Company's first operating system since 2001 to be available fan. 30for home use 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Microsoft Corp. launched its first new computer operating system in five years Thursday, say­ing that despite delays, the product's emergence is per­fectly timed for PC users who increasingly need to coordinate information from a dizzying array of sources. 
Opening an hourlong demonstration and press conference at the Nasdaq Stock Market, Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer acknowl­edged that Windows Vista should have been out long ago. 
"I should probably say it's an exciting thing to finally be here -and that's all I'll say about the past," Ballmer said, before adding: "This is the biggest launch in our company's history, that's for sure." 
Businesses that buy Windows licenses in bulk have first crack at PCs with the new operating system or at upgrade discs for installing Vista on existing machines. Consumers won't be able to get Vista on home PCs until Jan. 30. 
Microsoft and computer vendors contend that Vista will make computers more secure, powerful and graph­ically dynamic, especially when combined with other products Microsoft is releas­ing simultaneously. Those sages -and it can integrate changes in Vista involve improvements, analysts include new back-end serv­voice mail and instant mes­three-dimensional graphics expect Vista to only gradual­er software for businesses, sages when used with and much better search ly appear on PCs, especially as well as Office 2007, Microsoft server software. capabilities, but the soft­in big organizations where which brings sweeping "I think we really have the ware also incorporates huge upgrading can be costly and changes to widely used pro­most comprehensive lineup changes behind the scenes. complicated. Gartner grams such as Word, our company has ever put in Programs have less access Dataquest predicts Vista Outlook, Excel and place," Ballmer said. to the core of the operating won't outnumber the previ­Power Point. Much is at stake for system, closing a vulnerabil­ous operating system, 
Ballmer said the new Microsoft. Most of its rev­ity that malicious hackers Windows XP, on business offerings were suited to enue and almost all of its have giddily exploited in the computers until2010. businesses that need to link profit come from Windows past. Vista also includes That's largely because big staff, partners, documents and Office, funding the com­basic anti-virus software. companies need to test and corporate data in far­pany's sexier ventures in Of course, no software can internal business applica­flung locales and to manage video games and music be 100 percent safe; tions on Vista before switch­information that comes in players and giving it the Ballmer would have been ing, a process that Gartner various formats over the cash it needs to fight a wide foolish to claim that Vista is analyst Michael Silver esti­Web. world of rivals, from open­hacker-proof. But he did mates at 12 to 18 months in 
The new version of Excel, source startups to big promise big improvements: many cases. for instance, packs vastly names like Google Inc., "The reduction in the num­And for many users, the increased number-crunch­Oracle Corp. and IBM Corp. ber of vulnerabilities that changes in Vista -even ing abilities. The Outlook e­Microsoft shares fell 21 ever present themselves will when paired with Office mail program performs cents to close at $29.36 on really be quite dramatic," he 2007 -appear nice to have noticeably faster searches the Nasdaq Stock Market. said. on new computers, but not for tidbits buried in mes-The most noticeable Even with all the touted must-haves. 

Citrus industry feels Katrina effects 
Associated Press Alan Vaughn said. But this is different, your mind, Jerry?" said Ragas, who 
he said: "With freezes, you could go lives near Buras. "... What am I going 
JESUIT BEND, La. -Last year's hur­back and plant trees. Now, the grove is to do, sit in a recliner chair and go 
ricanes flooded Ben Becnel Sr.'s citrus the low man on the list, when you have away?" 
groves with saltwater, thrashed three of to rebuild your house." Louisiana's citrus industry has a cult­
his greenhouses and workers' quarters With harvest under way and the like, regional following and is known 
and destroyed or otherwise damaged parish's weekend-long orange festival especially for its navel oranges. The 
hundreds of orange trees. set to begin Friday, farmers like Becnel, first trees were planted during French 
And he was one of the lucky ones. with navel oranges and satsuma man­colonial times, in the 1700s, but serious 
Further south in Plaquemines Parish, darins to sell, are trying to fill strong farming didn't begin until the 1850s. 
Katrina and Rita laid waste to entire demand, while older producers such as Only about 1,330 citrus acres were 
communities, destroying houses and 73-year-old Gerald Ragas are strug­planted statewide in 2004, tiny when 
livelihoods and threatening the future gling to start over. compared to the hundreds of thousands 
of the state's prized, niche citrus indus­It will be at least four years until the of acres in industry leaders Florida, 
try. small trees he replanted to replace California and Texas. It's such a niche 
"We've lost a lot before," with hurri­some of the 450 trees he lost will begin market that the U.S. Department of 
canes and freezing temperatures killing bearing fruit. Agriculture only reports on Louisiana's 
trees, if not groves, agricultural agent ''I've had people say, Are you out of industry every five years. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, December 1, 2006 
Engineers 
continued from page 1 
1980s. Nationwide, approxi­mately 80,000 engineers grad­uated each year in the mid­80s, and now that number has dropped to approximately 50,000 a year, she said. 
"We are also facing a situa­tion where a large number of engineers who were educated in the 50s and 60s in this country are getting to the point of retirement and so there is going to be a gap in knowl­edge," Pieronek said. "That From approximately 1996 until 2000, there was a large dip in the number of engineering stu­dents at Notre Dame. 
Merz credited his predeces­sor, former dean Frank Incropera, with reversing this sharp decline. 
Incropera started a cam­paign to make engineering more interesting to freshmen who intended to declare it as their major. He created a new introduction to engineering class and the Learning Center to encourage their interest. 
Engineering 111 pn~pares students for a major in engi­neering, Merz said. Since the 
scares peo­ple because it could lead to a gap in innovation, in technolog­ical develop­ment." 
T h e American economy has thrived for the past 50 y e a r s because the country has been so advanced in technologi­cal develop-
Class of 2004 tookEG111,
"It's really hard for an the retention 
economy to grow when rate into soph­omore year
you don't have new ideas 

has increased 
-you don't have the next substantially, 
iPod or the next amazing rising from approximately
communications device. 

55 percent to
And without engineering 

approximatelytalent those things aren ,t 75 percent for the Class of
going to happen." 

2009, Merz said. Catherine Pieronek 
But there is director, Academic Affairs and still a tenden­
Women's Engineering Program cy for students to avoid engi­neering as a 
ment, she said. Without the people to come up with new ideas, this innovation move­ment will be hampered. 
"It's really hard for an econ­omy to grow when you don't have new ideas -you don't have the next iPod or the next amazing communications device," Pieronek said. "And without engineering talent those things aren't going to happen." 
In 1991, undergraduate engineers -excluding fresh­men -made up 14 percent of the University, according to Merz. In 2006, engineers fell to comprise 12.6 percent of University undergraduates. 
major because of its difficulty, 
he said. 

"I would argue that too many 
students choose easier fields 
because they are easier fields," 
Merz said. 

Incorporating women into 
engineering 

Pieronek has also questioned why more students are not entering the engineering field, especially women. She said the .problem is "puzzling," espe­cially since women now make up the majority of undergradu­
ate students nationwide. 
"Between 1987 and 2001, 
which is the last year for 
which we have good data, the number of women earning Since the start of the pro­engineering degrees in this gram, Pieronek said, the reten­country has stayed around tion rate for women has risen. 11,000," Pieronek For the graduat­said. "That number ing Class of 2007, is flat, despite the "I think women the retention rate fact that the num­for women was
have a different
ber of women in approximately
perspective to
college is close to 60 equal to the percent in under­engineering, and retention rate for grad uatc programs men -a signifi­
I think when you
across the country." cant increase, she 
are trying to
Companies are said. increasingly realiz­solve problems, f<or the Class of ing the value of 2005, Pieronek
different ideas 
employing women said the retention
and different
as engineers, rate for women Pieronek said, perspectives are was 40 percent because they realize from the start of
useful to have. " 
that women are first year to the largely responsible start of sopho­
Carol Matasci
for buying appli­more year, with ances for the home sophomore the retention rate -but most of the chemical engineer for men at 62 
engineers who 
design these appli­
anees are men. 
"Companies realize now that they need to have women involved in the engineering process, but schools aren't graduating enough women to fill their demand," Pieronek said. 
Women make up 24.6 per­cent of the undergraduates enrolled in the College of Engineering. Throughout the University, they account for approximately 4 7 percent of students. 
To encourage women to enter engineering and support them during their years in the college, the Women's Engineering Program was started with the entering Class of 2006, Pieronek said. 
The program is a way for older students to mentor younger students, Pieronek said. 
"If the younger students see that the older students have gotten through and have thrived and are getting good jobs, the younger students are more likely to believe they ean do it," she said. 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ! 
IT'S NHVER TOll EARLY...IIR Tom LATE. 
Investing for your future is more imp01tant than ever. 
Our Investment Services Department can help you make the investments that are right for you. 
Contact us today for your FREE Investment Consultation! 
lnvestn1ent Servict>s Center locat.ed at: Ill West Edison Rnad 

~NOTRE DAME
Mishawaka, IN 46545 

w• FEDERAL CREDIT UNION
574/254-4416. www.ndfcu.org 


percent. 

Sophomore Carol Matasci, a chemical engineer, said the support she received from Notre Dame's chapter of the Soei1~ty of Women Engineers "was actual­ly part of what helped me decide to stay in engineering." 
"As a freshman I was pretty intimidated by my classmates," Matasci said. "Talking to the older girls was kind of encour­aging, to see that I could do it." 
Matasci said she thinks there is still an expectation that women arc more attracted to an Arts and Letters major than to one involving science and technology. 
"I think women have a dif­ferent perspective to engineer­ing, and I think when you are trying to solve problems, dif­ferent ideas and different per­spectives are useful to have," Matasci said. 
Diversifying the workplace 
This diversity of thought is an objeetive that Ivan Favila, the director of the Minority Engineering Program, is trying to achieve. 
"In order for the engineering innovation to be its strongest here in this country, you will need a diversity of thought that eomes from a diversity of people," he said. "When you have such a majority of like engineers, then you lack that dynamic." 
Minority students comprised about 13.4 pereent of total undergraduate engineers in 2006. 
The reason for this low num­ber, Favila said, may be that 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 232-8444 
some minority students who come to Notre Dame don't know any professional engi­neers. 
"Since there is an under-rep­resentation of minorities in the engineering workforce, you might see that trickle down to the number of students exposed to engineers and thus we will have a lesser number of minorities go into engineer­ing," he said. 
The Minority Engineering Program encourages minority students both to enroll at Notre Dame and to stay in the major onee tiH~y enter into it. An orientation course adver­tised for minority students, but open to anyone interested in engineering, provides informa­tion about what the discipline entails. 
Notre Dame's retention rate for minority engineers between freshman and sopho­more year is slightly more than 50 percent, compared to a national retention rate of approximately 34 percent, Favila said. 
"We are doing a little bit bet­ter in terms of national num­bers, but 50 percent, at least for me, is not good enough," he said. 
The program now has a strong base of people who have graduated from Notre Dame with the help of the Minority Engineering program and who have succeeded as engineering professionals. 
Improving engineering's pub­lic relations 
The College of Engineering still wants to increase its undergraduate numbers, Merz said. But part of the problem is the type of students Notre Dame has been admitting. 
"We can't get more [engi­neering majors[ if Admissions doesn't admit more engineer­ing intents," he said. 
Part of the problem with attracting students lies in a public relations problem for engineers, Merz said. A new engineering building located prominently on Notre Dame Avenue might do the job of attracting more students, he said. 
·"Since it is right on Notre Dame Avenue, it will be a mar­velous public relations institu­tion for the College," he said. 
The new building will be loeated between McKenna Hall and the flesburgh Center for International Studies. Construction is scheduled to begin in 2008 and be complet­ed by 2010. 
Engineers will continue to do "a lot of absolutely critical things for soeiety," Merz said, and Notre Dame engineers will graduate into a good job mar­ket. 
"Every report we get is that employers want to hire Notre Dame engineers," he said. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

ELlA'S Mediterranean Cuisine ..--~~-.--~··-~~Yfo~~--------~ Open: Tues.-Sat. llam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. and Mon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering ---------­•~'-"&------------­We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North (574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 We are located in Roseland area, near Pendle Road on 3 I  

Friday, December 1, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Blind 
continued from page 1 
high school at the time, mak­ing her "one of the youngest members of the U.S. swim team," she said. While partic­ipants in the Paralympics may be visually impaired or blind like Nashleanas, com­peting athletes' disabilities range from amputation to multiple sclerosis to cerebral palsy. 
Nashleanas began her swimming career free of fam­ily pressure -she doesn't come from a family of swim­mers. Rather. she first began the sport because "I thought swimming was fun and that I'd give it a try,'' she said. 
Nashleanas' competitive spirit has kept her focused on her goals, and she has been training hard in the pool ­"usually five to six days a week, three miles a day" -in order to be prepared for the April 2008 Paralympic trials. 
She hopes to qualify in the 100 back and perhaps the 400 freestyle, and said she prefers swimming longer dis­tances over sprints. 
When she is logging so much time and distance in the pool, Nashleanas said she appreciates the occasional practice with fellow hopeful Paralympic swimming com­petitor, second year political science graduate student James Fetter. Nashleanas 

said while she and Fetter have very different schedules, they both relish the opportu­nity to work out together. 
Fetter and Nashleanas are both working with Irish Aquatics master's coach Annie Sawicki, Nashleanas said. 
Nashleanas said the mas­ter's swim team provides Notre Dame students, faculty, alumni and local community members with the opportuni­ty to swim competitively. 
Notre Dame's Office for Students with Disabilities supports Nashleanas' swim­ming by providing her with "tappers" for both practice and competition. The tappers stand at each end of her swimming lane. Using a pole with a tennis ball attached, they tap her head or shoulder at the appropriate time so she knows when to make her turn or to touch the wall, Nashleanas said. 
She said this was the only modification she could think of that she needed as a blind swimmer. 
Balancing school work with her tough training schedule is "difficult, but possible," she said. 
"The biggest challenge is just working through practice when you're tired," Nashleanas said. "But if you really want it, you've got to go for it." 
Contact Meghan Wons at mwons@nd.edu 

Ca01bodia 
continued from page 1 
[Pappy's] enthusiasm for spreading awareness and developing the opportunities available for children in Cambodia," Rann said. "I felt that the diverse, 200-member SIBC could help promote PEPY at Notre Dame." 
PEPY mainly works to bene­fit Cambodian children, who are the first generation of a younger population to survive after the Khmer Rouge devas­tation. PEPY hopes to build homes and schools to house and educate the children in rural and urban areas. 
"There are more land mines than children in the entire country," sophomore member Kate McDermott said. "There are even more than the amount used during World War II. I think that the $5 donations will go a long way." 
Well over 50 people showed up for the event. Many, like freshman Cassidy Blair, knew of friends who had volun­teered in Cambodia and want­ed to learn more about the sit­uation in the poverty-stricken country. 
"My friend's sister works as a missionary in Cambodia," she said, "and I'm so impressed that the SIBC is working for such a good cause." 
The event also had a special guest, Heather Connell, the executive producer of Los Angeles-based Displaced Yankee Productions. Connell showed the trailer for a docu­mentary she has been working on for a few years, called "Small Voices: Stories of Cambodia's Children." 

"The film focuses on the plight of street and garbage­dump children," Connell said, "and explores how the chil­dren view themselves, their lives and their future." 
Connell and her fellow pro­ducers selected five Cambodian children to be the subjects of the documentary. Interviewing, interacting with and filming the children, she said, has been "life altering." 
"Standing in [the city of] Stung Meanchey," she said, "and seeing barefoot and dirty children digging through garbage, where medical waste is dumped off, was horrify­ing." 
PEPY members are also exploring the option of work­ing with Cambodian Children's Fund (CCF) and a non-profit organization that rescues abandoned children. 
''I'm looking into the option of interning with the CCF next summer in Cambodia;" junior Allison Fleece said. "It will require me to teach English to orphans, which may not be easy, but I'm definitely going to convince my mom to let me go." 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 
Last year we pledged $2000 for 
I"As You Wish"t g~ 

hurricane relief in the Guatemalan village where we work. In the end,
mpor s -/~, 

we spent $4400! Thank you for your support! Please stop in toLoads of Silver & Beaded Jewelry, Tapestry look, buy, or just visit!
Wall Hangings, Hand Crafted Gift Items, Accessories, and Much. Much Morel 

DIRECT IMPORTS! lOW PRICES! 
Guatemala • Bolivia • Peru • Mexico • Thailand • India 
LaFortune-Sorln Room (1st Fl.) Proceeds !rom sales of jewelry guarantee the loving Nov. 27-Dec. 2 (Sat.) 11-5pm hands ol Guatemalan families 3 times their average & M-F Evenings 7:3D-10pm salary, as well as funds lor their education. 





Poverty 
continued from page 1 
rity and technology. These components are all weighted equally, which can create controversy, Roodman said. 
"The main purpose of this tool is to create communica­tion and stimulate discussion. The biggest advantage for not weighting the compo­nents is to make it easy for people to understand," Roodman said. "I've heard people argue that [a particu­lar component] should be weighted more heavily for 
each one  of these compo­ 
nents  so  I think it's  bal­ 
anced."  

When looking at foreign aid, Roodman insists that aid is more than quantity. Quality of aid is important, he said, which means looking at how democratic the governments are and whether or not the aid is "tied." 
"For example, if the United States gives aid to Uganda, there could be strings attached. 'If you take this money, you have to spend on it on American contractors,"' Roodman said. "That's 'tying' the aid, which reduces the quality of the aid because it prevents the ability to shop around. The United States is one of the worse offenders." 
Another example of the 

limitations of benefits of for­eign aid is shown through the relation to trade, which includes tariffs and subsidies. 
"In May 2005, the United States gave 90 million dollars to tsunami relief," Roodman said. "The three countries that benefited most pay about five million dollars in tariffs to the United States, so you could say the U.S. made back its money in six months." 
Ultimately, Roodman said, all of the components have their own rewards and down­sides. Although the U.S. ranked high in the areas of trade and investment, it ended up 13th on the index overall. The Netherlands took the top position this year, and Japan finished at the bottom of the list, which included 21 countries. 
"The key message is that helping is more than aid, aid is more than quantity, and every country can do better." Roodman said. "The big countries, which can make the biggest difference, are not stepping up to the plate." 
Roodman holds a bache­lor's degree in theoretical mathematics from Harvard. 
Contact Eva Binda at jbinda@nd.edu 


"Allow me to introduce VATICAN ­a NEW board game that offers a fun and interesting glimpse 
into the papal election process! 
In VATICAN, you and the other players take the long journey to become pope. You make decisions throughout your career, you struggle through the difficult period following the death of the reigning pope and you enter the Sistine Chapel to vote in the secret conclave. 
Learn how luck, skill, ambition and the flow of issues and events can make or break a candidate for pope. 
VATICAN is the perfect family Christmas gift and a thoughtful one to a teacher, a priest, religious or seminarian. You can order by phone (866 ~17 0655) or on the web (www.vaticanboard game.comf 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, December 1, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, lN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWs EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
Mary Kate Malone 

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CoNTROLLER: Kyle Wesr WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 63!-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.J@rtd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.J@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday en:qJt during exam and vaation periods. A sublu:ription ro The Observer is. $1 ()0 for one acadcn:Uc year; $55 fur one ~ma;tcr. 
Th.< Observer is published at: POSTMA.STER 
024 South Dining H;UI Send address com::aions ro: 
Notre Dame.lN 46556.0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notte Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices-. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notrt Dame. IN 465-56-0779 

The Observer is .a mttnb<:r ofthe Mociatcd Pres:;. All n:ptoduction rights are =n<d. 
Ticket problems remain unsolved 
Notre Dame demonstrated serious ticket mismanagement The change is simply an attempt to increase donations for this week when it announced it would cut by half' or more the season ticket aecess. A better way to increase revenue in the amount of tickets reserved for parents of current students. long run would be to increase the appreciation current stu­
Under the current system, parents could apply for two sets dents have for the school and the athletic department. of four tickets, traditionally for one game in tho middle of the But Notre Dame decided to give more seats to alumni who season and the last home game of the year. The new rules often got more access than parents of current stud1mts before will ensure parents who have a specilic game preference get the chango. That means families with three children, induct­two tickets to that game, but no more. According to the ath­ing one at Notre Dame, probably won't be able to bring the letic department's release, instead of a maximum of eight siblings not at Notre Dame to a game next season. tickets a year, parents will now get four at most Parents of this year's juniors now must -and likely just two. O TI ehange their plans if they were logically expect­
DS1erver

That's a shame. ing they could bring a few extended family Josh Berlo, the department's director of tickot members to a game.
Editorial

operations, said the move was to give more Last year's Fiesta Bowl fiasco -when the groups access to Irish football games. The facts, athletic: department and ticket office failed to however, contrast sharply with Berlo's state-ensure that each student applied for a ticket ment. The new policy has four "designat(o]d games" -the two only once-won't be forgotten soon. games for current parents, an early-season game for "senior This problem, though, Notre Dame can get right. The alumni" and the final home game for "alumni family." University can decide that frustrating the student body and 
That increased access, however, is going to people who its parents isn't a good idea. It can decide that fostering a already had it. spirit of family and community at the school is a good thing. 
The "senior alumni" game is for "contributing alumni who It can decide to stop aiming for unlimited revenue through graduated 35 or more years ago." But all contributing alumni season ticket "donations" by unnecessarily forcing people, already had access to games. The "alumni family" game also who already spend $40,000 a year in tuition, to donate thou­gives priority only to contributors who already had access. sands more dollars for football game ticket access. 

Gary Caruso 
CapitolComments 

The Judge Judy side of the ND scholarship 
The 1994 Viewpoint page with earmark for the scholarship. While I compiled in his book, "In the Kingdom Reverend Robert F. Griffin's column, could not escape a Judge Judy expmi­of the Lonely God," where he demon­"Letters to a Lonely God," fell from a ence, I learned that future attempts to strates a remarkable talent with the shelf when I searched for my passport sell football tickets require collabora­English language. Griffin could soothe this week. It was the third time in tion with the athletic department. suffering, counsel heartache, sharP November that Griffin is one of the "Angels of Notre joy and console peace even in absolute Griffin had intruded Dame," those many unique individuals silence during the early morning into my life, but the who throughout the years touch stu­hours that nudged sunrise, his alarm words on that page dents of every generation and heal elock for sleep. Those in need of sol­were the most final their souls. Each of these "Angels" ace always found comfort through of thoughts. He had deserves memorializing, and the him. written that, at the process is easier than enduring a half­I am personally appreciative of age of 69, he lin ally hour before Judge Judy. GrifT's love and selfless life, almost to bought his first bed The Development Oflice manages the same point of loyalty shown from without the assis­scholarships, established at the his many cocker spaniels named tance of others. donor's behest for the minimum "Darby." While I do not know how 
He wrote, "If I am $100,000 level and will list the bene­many souls he may have healed, he is lucky, it's the bed I factor's name on the campus an Archangel in my mind because he will die on. The luck Scholarships and Fellowships taught me to appreciate and under­would be in not Hecognition Wall. Initially, contribu­stand life. Griffin almost never corre­dying on a mattress soiled in sin at tions are pooled with the Notre Dame sponded with others, yet I received a some cheap one-night stand hotel; or Endowment {earning more than 14.5% letter from him the summer after my in a nursing home where I would be each year) and the interest is reinvest­graduation. It seems only fitting that taking my turn, playing follow the ed until the fund reaches a $25,000 as a holder of such a rare item I pro­leader with all those other terminal minimum. At that time, financial aid is mote his legacy with a scholarship. cases who have popped off to eternity distributed to qualifying students. Ilis 1994 Observer column predates from the same launching pad ... A However, once fully funded, the schol­Griflin's death by five years, but con­hospital bed must be a very lonely arship is oflieially named. cludes with a foreboding of his life's place to die." Our goal is to raise an average of end. lie asks for four angels -one to 
Father "Griff' has drifted in and out $15,000 per year (10 donors giving watch, one to pray and two to bear his of my life for nearly 35 years, even $1,500 each per year for 7 years), soul away. He concludes with, "May after his death in 1999 when I joined which will reach the $100,000 level by flights of angels sing me to my rest, others to promote a scholarship at 2014. My thought is that 200 of GrifT's though not soon." Notre Dame in his name. But he closest friends should contribute $500 May he and all Notre Dame Angels recently invaded my life in a most each next year to fast track the task. I who have implanted bits of wisdom unwelcome manner when the Notre urge anyone who admires someone into our souls never be forgotten ... Dame Ticket Office wrote me this within the Notre Dame community to and guide us through the Judge Judy month to say that our football ticket consider creating a scholarship of moments each of us inevitably purchasing privileges were suspended their own. encounters throughout our lives. for two years as a result of profiting Championing such a terrific memori­from the resale of tickets. al for any of our "Angels" is a worthy Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a 
I had listed tickets on eBay in an and noble gesture that keeps their political strategist who served as a effort to help raise $100,000 to fund spirits alive on campus. Griflin served legislative and public affairs director the scholarship at its minimum level. as a Chaplain for the Glee Club and in in President Clinton's administration. Fortunately, the ticket office held to the Campus Ministry. He founded !lis column appears every other the fair but tough standards that Darby's Place in the basement of Friday. He can be contacted at Judge Judy uses for her court. It also LaFortune Center where he served as hottline@aol. com helped that I could forward to the a counselor and friend to countless The views expressed in this column ticket office a communication from the students after midnight. are those of the author and not neces­Development Office acknowledging my His many Observer columns were sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Eileen Duffy Kate Gales Joe Piarulli Dan Murphy 
Will you be watching the Notre Dame women's Marcela Berrios Michael Bryan soccer team in the Final Four this weekend? 
Jennifer Metz Scene Viewpoint Marty Schroeder Joey King 
A. Yes 
Graphics B.No Tom Hanculak 
This poll is based on 600 responses recorded at http://www.ndsmcobserver.com/ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Life can only be understood backwards, but it must be lived forwards. " 
Soren Kierkegaard philosopher 


Friday, December 1, 2006 
page 11 LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

New ticket policy blurs true Notre Dame family 
As an alumnus, parent of a recent grad, and par­ent of a current sophomore, I was disappointed to learn about the most recent change in football tick­et policy as it relates to parents of current stu­dents. For many years, parents have been able to purchase four tickets to two pre-selected games, typically games that are likely to generate lower overall ticket demand. 
Over the years, this has allowed our family to treat grandparents, godparents and siblings to their first experience of a Notre Dame football weekend. But parents of present and future stu­dents will not have that luxury, because the new policy guarantees only two tickets to one game -a 75 percent reduction! 
Be prepared to tell your grandparents, brothers, sisters and other relatives to watch the games on NBC, because if Mom and Dad are traveling out for a game, there won't be any additional tickets. It is curious that this change occurs at the same time that 5,000 season tickets have miraculously become available, as long as one is willing to spend $3,000 to $5,000 per year for two tickets. Even more disturbing is the fact that one need not have any relationship to the University to purchase these tickets, as long as an additional $1,500 contribu­tion is made. 
Apparently the price of admission to the "Notre Dame Family" has been set at $4,500 to $6,500. I can certainly understand that some changes to the parent ticket policy might be necessary due to increased demand, but wouldn't it make more sense to guarantee four tickets to one game (still a 50 percent reduction)? Then the true extended Notre Dame family will continue to have the oppor­tunity to experience the tradition of a football weekend. 
Mark Thimons alum Class of 1978 Nov. 30 

An attempt at resolution 
I can't believe I'm writing this letter. According to Webster's dictionary: 
animal Function: noun 1 : any of a kingdom (Animalia) of living things including many-celled organisms and often many of the single-celled ones (as protozoans) that typically differ from plants in having cells without .cellu­lose walls, in lacking chlorophyll and the capacity for photosynthesis, in requiring more complex food materials (as proteins), in being organized to a greater degree of complexity and in having the capacity for spontaneous movement and rapid motor responses to stimulation 
. human Function: noun : a bipedal primate mammal Humans are mammals, which are a class of verte­brates. Vertebrates are a phylum of animals. A belongs to B, B belongs to C, C belongs to D, therefore A belongs to D. 
Ryan Bravo senior Fisher Hall Nov. 30 
Direction of Zahm examined, questioned 
Zahm shift unwanted, unnecessary 

My name is Mark Marquez and from 1999 to 2003, I lived in Zahm Hall. In my time in Zahm Hall, I served on the Freshman Orientation Committee my sophomore year and was as co-commis­sioner at Zahm Hall Foodsales my senior year. My years as a Notre Dame student and a resident of Zahm Hall constituted some of the happiest moments and best memories in my life. I was deeply sad­dened upon reading the article "Zahm struggles with culture shift" because the article describes the growing indiffer­ence and apathy now associated with being a Zahmbie. 
While I was a student at Notre Dame, Zahm did have the "Animal House" rep­utation, but along with that also came the Zahm Hall spirit. I do believe that Zahm was the closest thing to a fraterni­ty in terms of dorms at Notre Dame. There was a camaraderie among the men that lived in Zahm, but unlike a fra­ternity, Zahm had none of the negative drawbacks, such as the hazing that goes on in most traditional fraternities. I would hardly consider intoxicated jun­iors and seniors coming home from bars and waking up freshmen a hazing ritual. With that, I pose the question, "What older brother hasn't played a prank on a younger brother?" Now, I understand that a line has to be drawn somewhere, and I don't condone any type of physical abuse, or waking up freshmen the night before mid-terms or finals, but that is a far cry from an actionable offense wor­thy of sending students to Residence Life. 
In my time at Notre Dame, I never truly felt that Zahm was a "whipping boy." Yeah, jokes were made, but I would submit to you, the source of those jokes came from those who only wish they could emulate the Zahm Spirit, and those jokes were never taken seriously anyway. Besides a sense of community and togetherness, the Zahm Spirit also encompassed community service. While the assertion was made that Zahm Foodsales was neglected, one thing myself and the other co-commissioner accomplished in our tenure as Commissioners of Foodsales was the donation of Foodsales profits to a local charity in South Bend called, "There are Children Here," founded by Jim Langford. That is a rich tradition that seems to have died. 
The article made mention of two Zahm Hall rectors: Father Dan Parrish and Father Tom Bednar. I feel I would be remiss if I hadn't mentioned, at this point, a rector that truly embodied the Zahm spir_it. Before Parrish became rec­tor, before Bednar's tenure and even before his immediate predecessor Father Jim Lies, was Father Jim King. Rather than fighting the Zahm spirit, King embraced it. I personally have met Father King only once, at one of the famous Zahm Decade Dances, but I know him from the stories that were told about him by Zahmbies that came before me. 
One such story had King in the middle of the debate regarding which dorm to convert into an all female dorm: Zahm or Cavanaugh. As the story goes, King told the administration that if Zahm were to be converted to a female dorm, he would lock himself in his room, and let the Zahmbies have free reign. By sharing this story, I do not intend to promote complete anarchy. I simply mean to illus­trate that Zahm Hall, as a dorm, and as a community constitutes one of the strongest bonds a Notre Dame student could have, and precluding its existence is a tragedy. · 
Furthermore, if you have been accept­ed at the University of Notre Dame as a student, there is a reason for it. Every year, I read about the average SAT score getting higher every year as well as the statistics on students at Notre Dame being generally well rounded. It's not like Notre Dame has "undesirable" matriculants who are then ostracized to Zahm. Zahm Hall is not British Colonial Australia. 
Finally, the article alluded to legendary dining hall dinners, rowdiness at the football pep rallies and the running of naked males through LaFortune. While I agree with Zahm dinners and pep rallies being loud and boisterous, I don't believe the description of "naked males streak­ing through LaFortune" is entirely accu­rate; we were all wearing shoes. 
Mark Marquez alum Class of2003 Nov. 30 
Debate overblown 

As a member of the Zahm community, the very one that has cultivated my heart as well as mind, I must address the opposing viewpoints on the current state of the dorm. I start with a simple mes­sage to both parties: Get over yourselfl 
While I would like to thank Zahm Hall rector Father Dan Parrish for winning the Interhall football championship and ensuring that there are no dirty dishes in the dorm kitchen, I disagree with him when he says there is an indifference to the dorm's "unofficial traditions," the ones that are supposedly disappearing. The indifference lies far beyond streak­ing and vomiting, two traditions that are necessary to foster such a loving com­munity. The fact is that most of the resi­dents don't buy any of the rhetorical nonsense that people use to justify any "traditions" and Parrish just happens to be residing over the dorm when resi­dents are finally "waking up." 
In fact, Parrish isn't responsible for the eradication of any of these sacred tradi­tions. Has anyone given any thought that people don't like being woken up in the middle of the night? Is it possible that most would like to keep their doors intact? Could it be that vomiting is repul­sive? Sadly, most of the former residents would like to reminisce of the good old days when public vomiting and vandal­ism were encouraged. These are the same sad individuals who will roam the halls of Zahm 30 years from now, talking about how they tried to save the dorm and how they still hold a grudge against that mean old Father Dan. 
Let's face it-Parrish, as much as he would like to credit himself for providing some change in the dorm, isn't responsi­ble for anything more than a few extra weights and televisions in public areas, and the Zahm "traditions" were destined to be lost because things just change. 
The two-day article in The Observer was just another example of how every­one at this school thinks they're impor­tant, when the truth is that they just have too much time on their hands. 
Patrick Tucker sophomore Zahm Nov. 30 
Zahm Hall more than just a building 

In The Observer's recent article about Zahm Hall ("Zahm struggles with culture shift," Nov. 29), the way that Zahm Hall rector Father Dan Parrish describes what Zahm was like when he arrived in 2003 is very telling. "When I came here in the fall of 2003, Zahm was a mess, in every way," Parrish said. "We were broke -flat broke. We had no money ... Our weight room was a pigsty, carpet torn up, just tattered, black smudges all over the walls. Common spaces were just dilapidated. The Foodsales kitchen was dirty, full of rundown broken refrigera­tors, carpets -everything was just kind of neglected." The first "problem" that Parrish mentions is a lack of fmances. I would like to remind him that Zahm is a place for students to live and not a busi­ness. 
At the time of his arrival, Zahm Foodsales donated all its proceeds to a charity that Zahm had very close ties to: There Are Children Here. Unfortunately, TACH is no longer running so the Foodsales money stays in the dorm and finances are up. This might make Parrish happy, but if I still lived in Zahm, I can say that I would much rather see revenues going to kids in need than to keeping Zahm in the black. 
Secondly, his description of the dorm is clearly one of an outsider. He describes physical blemishes, something a stranger might notice upon walking through Zahm when it is empty of residents. In other words, thesf' ' all superficial ele­ments of the dorn-Lhings that might be said to constitt its image but not its identity. When I walked into Zahm for the first time in 2003 r did not notice any of these blemish· Pirst of all, I thought rundown refr,go·rators and old carpets were something I might encounter at a college. But I think the real reason I did not notice was that I was so distracted by all the great people that lived in Zahm. 
Zahm might have been old and cruddy, but that hardly mattered when its resi­dents formed such an enthusiastic com­munity. I could not take an outsider's perspective of the dorm because from the moment I walked in my peers made me feel welcomed and at home. The problem I see with Parrish's mindset is that he is overly concerned with Zahm's image, and this leads him to ignore its identity. He has to realize that the dorm is a place for students to live -they are the most important part. And they don't care about torn carpets, old refrigerators and messy weight rooms if they are with friends in a place where they feel at home. 
It does not matter if parents get the wrong idea about Zahm from some secu­rity guard. Parents are not the ones liv­ing in the dorm, and they will fmd out soon enough from their kids that Zahm is a great place. The fact that Zahm had a "bad reputation" was always just part of the fun for those of us who lived there. I always thought that people who put stock in this "bad rep" really did not know a thing about Zahm. Unfortunately, it seems like Parrish is one of them. 
Ian Mackay senior, former Zahm resident offcampus Nov. 30 
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 12 
Friday, December 1, 2006 


IO,.RE DAME: 1 
STORIES By BRIAN DOXTADER & MJ 
CLASSICS OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL LORE ON DVD 
····. 
. -~ 
.

,.. 
' ' 
Pat Terrell batting down Steve Walsh's two-point attempt. Joe Montana hitting Kris Haines for a touchdown as time expires. Two point conversion, Mirer to Brooks in the back of the endzone. Shawn Wooden knocking down Charlie Ward's desper­ation heave. 
All these moments have become part of Notre Dame football lore, though most of them haven't been seen by fans in the context of their full games. Yet all of these great moments are col­lected in A&E's new eight-disc set, "University of Notre Dame Fighting Irish -Collector's Edition (College Football's Greatest Games)." The mammoth and exhaustive set collects seven and a half of Notre Dame's greatest victories from 1966 to 1993, each presented in its entirety (with one exception). 
The games included on the set are: 
+ 
The Green Jersey Game (1977 regular season vs. USC) . 

+ The 1978 Cotton Bowl vs. Texas 

+ 
The "Chicken Soup Game" (1979 Cotton Bowl vs. Houston)

+ 
The "Catholics vs. Conviets Game" (1988 regular season vs. Miami)

+ 1989 Fiesta Bowl vs. West Virginia 

+ 
The "Snow Bowl" (1992 regular season vs. Penn State) 

+ 
The "Game of the Century" (1993 regular season vs. Flol'ida State) 

+ 
The second half of the "Game of the Century" (1966 regular season vs. Michigan State) 


A glance at the rosters of these games indicates just how powerful Notre Dame was between 1977 and 1993. Joe Montana, Rocket Ismail, Tony Rice, Bob Golic, Ken MacAfee, Aaron Taylor, Chris Zorich, Michael Stonebreaker, Reggie Brooks, Rick Mirer and Jerome Bettis all make appearances. 
While there admittedly some great games missing from this Sf1t (the 1973 Sugar Bowl against Alabama, the 1980 game against Michigan, the 1992 "Cheerios Bowl" against Florida), the contests on this set are indeed among the most classic and legendary in Notre Dame -and therefore, college football -history. 
The most entertaining game on the entire set may be the Snow Bowl against Penn State, which marked the end of the 1992 regular season. In a swirling snowstorm, the Irish, led by Rick Mirer, Reggie Brooks and Jerome Bettis, fought a young Kerry Collins-led Penn State in a defensive struggle. Trailing 16-9 late in the fourth, Mirer led the Irish down the field before find­ing Bettis in the endzone. Holtz then elected to take a risk -go for two points and the win. Mirer took the snap and dropped back almost 15 yards before finding Heggie Brooks in the back corner of the endzone for the unlikely win. 
There are at least two games on the set which reach almost epic propor­tions -the 1988 "Catholics vs. Conviets" against Miami (arguably the greatest game in Irish history) and the 1993 "Game of the Century" against Florida State. In both contests, Notre Dame. held ofT late rallies by batting down passes by the respective oppos­ing quarterbaekers (Steve Walsh in 1988 and eventual Heisman winnor Charlie Ward in 1993). Watehing Holtz and his coordinators (defensive coordi­nator Barry Alvarez in 1988 and Hick Minter in 1993) match wits against Jimmy Johnson and Bobby Bowden is a spocial treat. Additionally, it's mar­velously funny to see Bobby Bowden and Joe Paterno coaching during their heyday more than a decade ago when the young coaches were in their mere 60s. 
Oddly enough, a lot of memorable plays (particularly from the Holtz years) didn't actually come from any of these games. No Tim Brown returns, no big Bettis runs, no electrifying Hoeket returns. Yet the games present­ed were arguably more complete, and also showed how underrated Tony Rice was as Notre Dame's last Champio­ship quartmback. 
Most of the presentations were taken from their cable broadcasts, though Bob Costas' classic introduction to the Game of the Century is noticeably missing. Also, unsurprisingly, Keith Jaekson and Brent Musberger ­announcers on some of the games ­were no less annoying then than they are now. 
The most intriguing game on the set is the 19(>6 matchup between Notre Dame and Miehigan State. Though the picture quality isn't the greatest and it only eontains the second half of the game, it still stands as one of the most bizarre and frustrating ties in football history. The Irish wPre without their starting quarterbaek and tailback and fought back to tie the game at 10-10, with Parseghian's eonservative choice to sit on the ball (and thus, the tie) going down as a memorable and con­troversial decision. 

The box set itself is fantastic. Each of the games is shown in its entirety and the quality of the presentations is gen­erally very high, though the 1977 Green Jersey Game has a considerable portion of the game whieh is far fuzzi­er. The set is sparse on special features but with eight complete games, it does­n't really need any. Notre Dame's foot­ball tradition, as presented, speaks for itself. 
For Irish fans, this set is a blessing. While the Notre Dame faithful hope and expect Charlie Weis to bring the Irish back to tlw top of the football world, with this sRt they can look back at some of the program's glory days and wake up the eehoes in the comfort of their home. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@pd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, December 1, 2006 
page 13 
en•dNow 
SCHROEDER 
1966 to 2006 
THREAT: NOTRE DAME COACHES As AUTHORS 
Two of the most recent and most gles can be found in the pages of this rominent Notre Dame coaches, Lou autobiography. The message this book and Charlie Weis, are also pub­conveys is that being a moral persom d authors. They have written on and a well-educated person is ulti­n array of topics from discussions of mately more important that being a own lives, their goals and careers good football player. Although Holtz coaches and general life strategies. earnestly cared about the game, it oth men are considered morally never became more important than his pstanding, and their books have done relationship to his players, his family 
I on the market. and God. of Lou Holtz's earlier books is Alongside books written for an older ing Every Day: The Game Plan readership, Holtz also wrote a book for 
Success." Published in 1999, this pre-teens and teens. "A Teen's Game ook is equal parts football and life Plan for Life" promises to offer moral '"'"'vu;:,. Using strategies that Holtz has guidance in a style suited to a younger ed being a football coach for a crowd. Promoting those values closest tier program, he discusses how to to Holtz such as loyalty, clean living se those str:_~tegi~:S in everyday life. and a commitment to God, this book Finding focus and commitment to has been very successful with younger sks is similar to attacking an oppos-readers. Holtz has a particular expert­team on the gridiron. Summing up ise in guiding young minds, thanks to goal and themes of the book, Holtz his career as a college football coach. ays, "Your talent determines what His goal of molding boys into men can u can do. Your motivation deter­be applied to the lives of other young 
how much you are willing to do. readers. where he became offensive coordina­ur attitude determines how well you Alongside Holtz stands the future of tor. Parcells decided to retire in 1999 it." Notre Dame football -Charlie Weis. and Weis was hired by Bill Belichick as In "Winning Every Day," Holtz dis-· Never one to be outdone, Weis has just the offensive coordinator. Here he won usses his rags-to-riches past, from released his first book co-authored three Super Bowls until finally landing up in a poor river town and with Vic Carucci, entitled "No Excuses: in South Bend as the Notre Dame head 
nothing to becoming coach at One Man's Incredible Rise Through the coach on Nov. 30, 2004. 
e of the most revered academic and NFL to Head Coach of Notre Dame." This book also explores Weis' per­'tthletic institutions in the nation -The title itself is evidence of Weis' alle­sonal life and discusses issues he has nd his ensuing success in this capari­giance to the University. To consider it had with his weight and his family life. 
y. He outlines what he calls his "WIN" a rise from the NFL to Notre Dame is He discusses the relationship he has trategy ("What's Important Now"). an example of how much Notre Dame with his best friend and wife, Maura, For the person struggling in a new job, means to Weis. Granted, he may have his "best buddy and son," Charlie Jr., a new residence situation or any other had nothing to do with the title, but it and his "guiding angel" and daughter, :lifficult life situation, this is a book is interesting nonetheless. Hannah. Weis and his wife have start­irom a guy that has seen just about This book follows Weis' career from ed a foundation called Hannah & werything. coaching high school in New Jersey to Friends, which helps families with spe­
In 2006, Holtz decided to write an coaching at Notre Dame. During the cial needs children. mtobiography, and "Wins, Losses, and interlude, Weis had a successful tenure These two coaches have gone ~essons: An Autobiography" was the as an NFL coach. First coaching under through many hardships that most and product. Coming from the man Bill Parcells as the defensive assistant people have not experienced and their ­who is the only coach to lead six differ­and assistant special teams coach with lives provide excellent examples of ent college football teams to a bowl the New York Giants, Weis began accu­how to face hardship and succeed. game, the winner of the Coach of the mulating the knowledge needed to be From Holtz's stories growing up in a Year award three times and the ninth successful. He won the first of his four poor family to Weis' experiences rais­winningest college football coach of all Super Bowl rings that year as the ing a special needs child, everyone can lime, this promises to offer an inside Giants defeated the BufTalo Bills. find some inspiration in his or her life. look into an interesting life. When Parcells left the Giants for the The books are not the men themselves, 
How did a 135-pound, rail-thin man New England Patriots, Weis followed but it is a way to find a part of them become one of the best coaches in col­and became the tight ends coach for outside of the coaching careers they lege football history? How did a man two years, the running backs coach for are most known for. -in his own words -write a book one year and the wide receivers coach when many expected him never to for one year. Wcis then followed Contact Marty Schroeder at read one? The answ11rs and the slrug-Parcells to coach the New York Jets mschroel@nd.edu 
-

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, December 1, 2006 
NHL 


Kessel scores game-winner in Bruins victory 
Thrashers wing Marian Hossa snags first career hat trick as Lehtonen shuts out Toronto in a 5-0 rout in Atlanta 
Associated Press Scott Mellanby and Brad Larsen also scored for the 
BOSTON -Tim Thomas saved Thrashers, who snapped the all seven shots in the shootout Maple Leafs' eight-game win­and Phil Kessel scored on ning streak in the series by Boston's seventh attempt, giving handing Toronto its first shutout the surging Bruins a 4-3 win of the season. over the Tampa Bay Lightning It was Atlanta's first win over on Thursday night. the Maple Leafs since a 3-2 
Brad Boyes, P.J. A:xelsson and overtime victory on Oct. 27, Glen Murray scored and Patrice 2003, in Toronto. The Maple Bergeron had two assists for the Leafs outscored the Thrashers Bruins, who beat Tampa Bay for 3 7-9 in their eight straight wins, the third time this season and including a 4-2 victory on Oct. have won eight of 10 overall. 30 in Toronto. 
Eric Perrin and Vincent Hossa ended his personal his­Lecavalier each had a goal and tory of frustration against an assist and Martin St. Louis Toronto with his first hat trick also scored for the Lightning for Atlanta. Hossa leads the NHL {13-12-1), who lost their second with 20 goals this season, but he straight after winning three in a had only one goal and one assist row. in his last nine games against 
Boston came back from Toronto, a streak that began deficits of 2-1 and 3-2 to force before Hossa's 2005 trade to overtime despite being outshot Atlanta from Ottawa. 31-22 in regulation. Tampa Bay has won just twice in its last 23 Carolina 4, Montreal 2 games in Boston. Justin Williams and Eric 
Thomas saved 31 shots in reg­Belanger scored less than a ulation before turning away all minute apart in the third period seven Lightning attempts in the to lead the Carolina Hurricanes shootout to win his third consec­past the Montreal Canadiens on 
Boston's Phil Kessell battles Toronto's Kyle Westwood in the second period of Thursday's 4-3
utive start. He improved to 10-5-Thursday night. 

Bruins win at the Air Canada Centre. Kessell later scored in a shootout to lead his team to a win.
2 after winning only one of his Erik Cole added a pair of goals first six decisions. off his own rebounds for the Boston improved to 3-2 in Hurricanes, who stayed on the five. Huet finished with 44 saves. after six losses. Jakub Klepis game over .500, have won seven shootouts. attack almost the entire way. The Hurricanes had lost three had two assists. of eight since getting off to a 7­Carolina fmished with a season­of four, prompting coach Peter Kolzig, who won his 255th 11-1 start. Atlanta 5, Toronto 0 high 48 shots to keep steady Laviolette to meet with his play­career game, had been 0-9-1 Two children attending the 
Marian Hossa had three goals pressure on Montreal goalie ers in groups after Wednesday's against the Minnesota/Dallas game were sent to a hospital ­and an assist, Kari Lehtonen Cristobal Huet throughout, while practice and discuss ways to get franchise before handing the as a precaution -after plexi­stopped 36 shots and the Atlanta Cam Ward finished with 25 the Stanley Cup champions refo­Stars their season-high third glass shattered in front of them Thrashers beat Toronto on saves on the other end. cused. The Hurricanes respond­consecutive loss. Dallas had when Senators defenseman Thursday night for their first Michael Ryder and Tomas ed with a strong effort, surpass­beaten the Capitals five straight. Chris Phillips checked Florida's victory over the Maple Leafs in Plekanec scored for the ing their previous season high of Jussi Jokinen had two goals Stephen Weiss into the boards more than three years. Canadiens, who had won four of 40 shots -set three times -and Stu Barnes also scored for early in the first. 
before finally pushing ahead Dallas, which dropped its fourth Heatley scored a power-play with the scores from Williams consecutive road game. goal 2:37 in, then made it 2-0 and Belanger. Zednik and Clark tallied 1:52 with his team-leading 16th goal 
With the score tied at 2, apart in the first for a 2-0 lead. at 8:52. Williams took a pass from Ray Zednik's fourth goal of the Fisher scored a short-handed Whitney and flipped a backhand year put the Capitals up 1-0 goal at 17:37 to increase the shot by Huet from near the right 13:05 into the game. No one lead to 3-0, and Ottawa added circle for the go-ahead score at picked Zednik up along the right three more goals in the second. 
12:27 of the third. Then, after a wing and he snapped a short Emery got his fourth career battle along the boards in the pass from Brooks Laich past shutout and first since March Montreal zone, Belanger cor­Mike Smith from the right circle. 19, when he stopped 22 shots in ralled the puck and flipped a With Washington on a power a 4-0 win at New Jersey. shot by Huet for a 4-2 lead at play, Klepis won the puck in a Rostilav Olesz came close to 
13:13. serum along the boards and fed spoiling the shutout when he hit 
The Canadiens struck first Clark, who scored from between the left post with 3:30 remain­when Ryder took a short pass the circles at 14:47. ing. from Guillaume Latendresse and Jokinen halved the lead 41 Florida, which lost 1-0 in a beat Ward from the right side of seconds into the second period, shootout at Montreal on the crease midway through the f1ipping the puck past Kolzig Tuesday, has lost five straight first period. from high in the slot. and been held to one goal in its 
last three games. Washington 4, Dallas 3 Ottawa 6, Florida 0 Alex Auld allowed five goals 
Olaf Kolzig made 35 saves and Dany Heatley had two goals on 17 shots before he was withstood a third-period rally to and an assist and Ray Emery replaced by Ed Belfour 6:01 into finally defeat the only NI-IL fran­made 31 saves for Ottawa's first the second. Auld, who made his chise he had never beaten when shutout of the season in the third straight start and fifth in the Washington Capitals posted Senators' win over the Florida six games, earned his second a victory over the Dallas Stars Panthers on Thursday night. career shutout two nights earli­on Thursday night. Mike Fisher, Chris Kelly, er despite losing after he was 
Richard Zednik, Chris Clark, Andrej Meszaros and Antoine beaten twice in the shootout. 
-AP Matt Pettinger and Alexander Vermette also scored for Ottawa, Belfour stopped 10 of 11 shots, Maple Leafs' Jeff O'Neill and Atlanta's Steve McCarthy dive Semin scored for the Capitals, which won its second straight. allowing Vermette's ninth goal after a loose puck in the Thrashers' 5-0 win Thursday night. who won their second straight The Senators, who moved one 16:10 into the second. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS 
-
BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam-3-6 Bedroom homes, walking dis-pus homes & weekend rentals. lance, washer, dryer. MMM Rentals. Bluegoldrentals.com Contact Gary 574-993-2208. PERSONAL 
One bdrm apt. in quiet historic area HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 LOST: Spiral notebook, teal cover WANTED: 1990 or 91 The Shirt. ATIN: GRAD STUDENTS & FAG-available Spring semester. Bedrooms UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do with angels with trumpets on the $100 for quality shirt. Call Dan at ULTY: Laundry & security. www.NDstudentrentals.com not go it alone. If you or someone cover. 712-251-0930. Elegant Park Avenue Victorian, 3 $575/mo. you love needs confidential support Call Tom 631-9806. finished levels, 4 bdrms, all hard-Call574-283-0325. or assistance, please call Sr. Sue 
Need diving coach part time 2-3 wood floors, marble fireplace, FoR SALE Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more FOUND: winter hat near afternoons/wk. Girls & boys teams. ceramic tiled bath, BEST HOUSES & CHEAPEST information, visit our web site at Engineering Bldg. Call Washington High School French doors to patio, bay windows RENT offered by NO GRADs. 1991 Audi Model80. 4-dr. excellent http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-Call Tom Athletic Dept. in dining room. Available 07-08 or NOW. condition. $2,000. Call561-596-nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad 631-9806 to identify. 574-283-7206. Call Marcie 574-247-9330. Call312-545-5123. 0194. in The Observer. 
LOST & FOUND WANTED FoR RENT 




OUND THE NATION 
Friday, December 1, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S \VIRE SERVICES page 15 
MLB 


Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA Pitcher Adam Eaton and the Philadelphia Phillies finalized a $24.5 million, three-year contract on Thursday. A first-round pick by the Phillies in 1996, Eaton is 54-45 with a 4.40 ERA in seven major league seasons. He has been on the disabled list six times in his career, but the Phillies are banking on the right-hander to fill out their rotation. 
Eaton, who turned 29 on. Thanksgiving, was 7-4 with a 5.12 ERA in 13 starts in his only season with Texas, making $4.65 million. He won 11 games 
NBA 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic 
team record pet. <Jill 
New Jersey 6-9 ~400 ~­
Philadelphia 5·9 .357 .5 Boston 5·9 .357 .5 New York 6·11 ,35~ 1 Toronto 5·10 .333 1 
Eastern· Conference, Central team record pet. GB···· Detroit 9·5 .643 
Cleveland 9·6 .600 
.5 
1 Chicago 5·9 .357 4 Milwaukee 5•9 .357 
Indiana 9·7 .563 
4 

Eastern Conference, Southeast 
team record 
· GB 
OrIando 12·4 Atlanta 6·7 Miami 6-8 Washington 5·9 Charlotte 4·11 
Western Conference, Northwest 
team record pet, GB Utah 13-3 .813 .Denver 8·5 .615 3f5. Minnesota 6·8 .429 6 Portland 6-10 .,375 7 Seattle 6·1 0 .375 7 
Western <;onference,. Pacific 
team 
LA takers Sacramento 
Phoenix 
Golden Stale LA Clippers 
team 
Dallas San Antonio Houston NO/Oklahoma City Memphis 
record 
9•5 8·5 8·6 9·7 
H 
record 
1F4 
11·5 10·5 84 4-11. 

pet. GB 
.643 
.615·· 
L511 
:saa····· 
.soo 


in consecutive seasons with San Diego before he was traded to the Rangers last December. 
Eaton solidifies a prom­ising rotation that includes Brett Myers (12-7, 3.91 ERA), Cole Hamels (9-8, 4.08), Jon Lieber (9-11, 
4.93) and Jamie Moyer (11-14, 4.30 with the Phillies and Seattle). 
"He stabilizes our rota­tion and will complement the rest of our staff nice­ly," general manager Pat Gillick said. 
The Phillies' only other free-agent signing so far this offseason was infield­er Wes Helms, who got a $5.45 million, two-year deal. Gillick wanted slug­ger Alfonso Soriano, but the Chicago Cubs outbid everyone else for the five­time All-Star. 

Going into next week's winter meetings, the Phillies want to upgrade their bullpen, add a catch· er and still hope to find a right-handed hitter to pro­tect NL MVP Ryan Howard in the middle of the line­up. 
Gillick wouldn't com­ment about reports that the team backed out of a deal with reliever Joe Borowski after he was given an extensive physi· cal. Borowski went 3-3 with a 3.75 ERA and 36 saves in 72 appearances for the Florida Marlins last season. 
"Medical situations are tricky to talk about," Gillick said, adding the team has made proposals to other relievers. 
Eaton's best season was his final one with the Padres. He went 11-5 with a 4.27 ERA in 22 starts in 2005 after going 11-14 with a 4.61 ERA in 33 starts the previous season. 

Eaton had elbow surgery in July 2001 and didn't return until the following September. He missed sev­eral starts in '05 with a ­strained middle finger and didn't make his first start with Texas until late July because of the same finger injury. 
NCAA Hockey USCHO Top20 

team record pdtlits J}~«vit~,U$ > 
1 Minnesota 12~1-2 11811 2 New Hampshire 9•2·1 791 3 Malite 8·3•1 671 4 Miami {Ohio) 11·5·0 656 5 NOTRE DAME 10.3·1 .· 650 6 Michigan 11·4·0 586 7 Boston College 7·4~1 555 8 Denver 9-4~1 525 g Boston University 5·2·4 489 19 St. Cloud Stale 6•3·3 386 11 North Dakota ],6·1 372 

12 Michigan Slate 6·6·1 350 ···fi;;....... 13 Cornet! ],3·0 290 12 14 Alaska 6~24 254 16 15 Colorado College a,fi..1 .216 19 
... 17
16 Yale 6~2:-1 153 17 Dartmouth 5·.3·2 147 15··· 18 Vermont 7·4·1 129 NR 19 Massachusells 6-.3•1 199 14 20 Northern Michigan 7"6·2 . go. 18·· 

around the dial 
NBA 
Sacramento at Dallas 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 

Chicago at New Orleans 8 p.m., Comcast 
IN BRIEF 

Gophers coach Monson 
resigns after slow start 
MINNEAPOLIS -Dan Monson resigned as the men's basketball coach at Minnesota on Thursday, one day after the Gophers' fifth straight defeat left them with their longest losing streak in more than 40 years. 
Assistant coach Jim Molinari will take over as interim head coach. 
The Gophers fell to 2-5 with a 90­68 horne loss to Clemson on Wednesday night. Minnesota's skid is its worst in nonconference play since a six-game slide during the 1962-63 season. 
Monson, who received a $1.1 mil­lion buyout from the university, said "a new voice" was needed. 
"I think at the end of the day as a coach, if you're not putting the play­ers first, if you're not putting the university first, you're not doing the job. And I'm trying to do my job here." 
Jockey Baze ties all-time 
record for victories 
SAN MATEO, Calif.-Russell Baze tied Laffit Pincay Jr.'s record of 9,530 victories Thursday at Bay Meadows, winning by 4 1/2 lengths aboard Christie's Fame in the sixth race. 
Far from the glamour, rich races and classy horses that define thor­oughbred racing in Southern California and New York, Baze got the job done in his typical workman­like fashion. 
He sent Christie's Fame to the lead .out of the gate and settled along the rail. They maintained a length lead on the backstretch. Chased by Afeelyated, Baze peeked under his left arm to check his competition before going to the whip briefly in the stretch. 
He will try to break the record Friday, with scheduled mounts in seven races at the 72-year-old track where Seabiscuit ran. 
Red Sox sign Japanesereliever OkaJima 
BOSTON -The Red Sox agreed to a contract with a Japanese pitcher ­no, not that one. 
In the midst of negotiations with potential ace Daisuke Matsuzaka, the Red Sox agreed Thursday to a $2.5 million, two-year contract with left­handed reliever Hideki Okajima, a deal that includes a $1.7 5 million team option for 2009. 
The Red Sox also moved closer to signing free agent outfielder J.D. Drew. The sides are in the drafting stages of a $70 million, five-year contract that is ­likely to announced next week, a per­son familiar with the talks said on con­dition of anonymity because the deal has not been finalized. 
Boston general manager Theo Epstein envisions Okajima as a setup man and occasional specialist against lefty batters. 
"He's going be a valuable member of our bullpen," said Epstein. 
-


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, December 1, 2006 
NFL 

Bengals top Ravens on Houshmandzadeh TD 
Cincinnati's win means AFC North title is still in contention; Bengals defense looks significantly improved 
Associated Press 

CINCINNATI -Maybe T.J. Houshmandzadeh is right after all. 
Houshmandzadeh caught a 40-yard touchdown pass on a flea-flicker that caught Baltimore off-guard, spark­ing Cincinnati to a 13-7 vic­tory Thursday night that kept the AFC North title up for grabs. 
A surprisingly stout Bengals defense had a lot to do with it. 
Coming off a 30-0 win in Cleveland, one of the NFL's lowest-ranked defenses held Baltimore scoreless until Steve McNair threw a 36-yard touch'down pass to Derrick Mason with 1:01 to play. No Cincinnati defense had ever gone seven quar­ters without allowing a point. 
With a chance to win the AFC North title outright, Baltimore's offense came apart, crossing midfield only once in the first three quarters. 
Keiwan Ratliff clinched it by recovering the onside kick after Baltimore's only score. 
All of it supported Houshmandzadeh 's inain point: Right now, Cincinnati (7 -5) just might be the bet­ter team. 
After the Ravens won 26­20 on Nov. 5, the long­haired receiver insisted that everyone knows the Bengals are better. He repeated it again this week, getting a rise out of some of the Ravens. Safety Ed Reed suggested that Houshmandzadeh should just shut up. 
-
The Ravens were in no position to argue after Houshmandzadeh caught 10 passes for a season-high 106 yards, including the trick-play touchdown that made it 13-0 early in the 
second half and allowed the defense to dig in on a rainy night. 
The Bengals don't usually resort to trick plays _ their offense has enough firepow­er to beat teams straight­up. They did something dif­ferent against one of the league's nastiest defenses. 
On their first drive of the second half, Palmer handed off to Rudi Johnson, who then lateralled the ball back to quarterback. Houshmandzadeh was well beyond the coverage when Palmer let fly with the flea­flicker pass. 
Reed was the only player close to Houshmandzadeh when he caught the ball at the 12 and ran untouched into the end zone. 
Palmer had a solid show­ing against a defense that led the league in intercep­
-
tioas, ranked second in sacks and was third in points allowed. The Ravens rarely got to Palmer, who was on the mark on a rainy night-21-of-32 for 234 yards with only two sacks. 
More stunning was the Bengals' defense. Cincinnati's defense plum­meted to last in the league 
rankings after giving up 42 field only in the first half, second-half points to San and came away empty when Diego and nearly 600 yards Matt Stover missed a 29­to New Orleans. The yard field goal in the clos­defense got itself straight­ing seconds. He made the ened out during the shutout kick on his first try, but the in Cleveland, its first in 17 Bengals strategically called years. timeout just before the 
It was even better against snap. Baltimore. On the second try, holder Baltimore crossed mid-Sam Koch struggled with a 
THE POWER TO GET A 
PHONE THAT ROCKS 
Phone and MPJ player in one. 
GET THIS CAMERA PHONE 
FREE, INSTANTLY! 
SCP-3100 by Sanyo® Offer requires activation of a new line of service with a2-year sub­scriber agreement. Reg. $179.99. After $179.99 instant savings. 
T.ulll 
New, improved coverage in the South Bend area. 
Wireless service is only as good as the network it runs on. With new and improved coverage in South Bend, Niles, Granger and Laporte, now is a great time to experience the most complete, all-digital, wireless network in the nation reaching more than 250 million people. 
PRHER~ED RETAILERS 
NILESSOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA Sprint Store Express Sprint Store Express 
SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA STORE HOURS 
Basic

Martin's Plaza Grape Rd. at Indian Ridge Sunday ........ 12pm-5pm 
2010 S. 11th St. 2035 South Bend Ave. South of the Mall Mon.-Fri........ 10am-8pm 
52991 SR993 Ste. B University Park Mall 
269-357-0000 574-277-7727 across from McDonald's Sat.. ........... 9am-7pm 574-243-8900 6501 Grape Rd. 
574-277-4360 574-243-2100 Se habla Espai'iol 
..Rates exclude taxes & Sprint Fees (Including USF charge of up to 2.26% that varies quarterly, cost recovery fees up to $2.83 per line, & state/local fees that vary by area). Sprint Fees are not taxes or gov't-req'd charges. Coverage not available everywhere. Available features & services will vary by phone/network. Nationwide Sprint PCS Network reaches over 250 million people. Offers not available in all mar­kets or retail locations. Add' I terms & restrictions apply. Subject to credit. See store or Sprint.com details. Up to $36 activation & $200 early termination fees apply per line. Deposit may be required. Instant Savings: Offer ends 12/31/06 or while supplies last. No cash back. Taxes excluded. Activation at time of purchase required. Mail-in Rebate: Requires purchase & activation by 12/31/06. Rebates cannot exceed purchase price. Taxes excluded. Line must be active 30 consecutive days. Allow 8 to 12 weeks for rebate. ©2006 Sprint NexteL All rights reserved. Sprint. the "Going Forward" logo, the NEXTEL name & logo, & other trademarks are trademarks of Sprint Nextel. SWEEPSTAKES: NO PURCHASE NECESSARY TO ENTER OR WIN. PURCHASE DOES NOT IMPROVE YOUR CHANCES OF WINNING. The Sprint "Money Talks" Sweepstakes begins 12:00:01 a.m CST on 10/23/06 and ends 11:59:59 p.m. CST on 12/10/06. Open only to legal U.S. residents of lA, IL. Ml, IN, OH, PA. TN and WV, 18 years of age or older. Void where prohibited by law. To enter: Visit a participating Sprint retail store, complete the official entry form and drop in the entry box at the store or enter online at www.moneytalks/registertowin.com. Limit one entry per per­son. Subject to full official rules available online at www.moneytalks/rules.com. Odds of winning are dependent Upon number ofeligible entries received. Prizes: One (1) Grand Prize: $10,000 Cash. Value: $10,000. Seven {7) l'irst Prizes: $1,000 Cash. Value: $1,000 each. All prizes will be awarded in the form of a check. Total Value of all prizes: $17,000. SPONSOR: iPCS Wireless. Inc., 1901 N. Roselle Rd., Schaumburg, IL 60195. OPT-OUT: If you do not want to be contacted regarding iPCS Wireless Inc.'s, Products or services in the future, write to: Jill Moravec, The Ad Group 230 E. 2nd Street. Davenport, I~ 52801. 


-
e TM

FUSIC by LG® only from Sprint. 
Bluetooth<~> technology 
Built-in MP3 player with FM transmitter microSD external memory card Four accessory faceplates 
$99.99 
Reg. $299.99 each. Save $150 instantly plus $50 mail-in rebate. 

~ 
Plus get LG® portable speakers 
FREE 

reg. $58.65. While supplies last. 
Phone and free speaker offer requires activation of a new line of service on a$39.99 or higher service plan with a two-year agreement on each phone. 
Sprinf > POWER UPW 
REGISTER TO WIN $10,000* 
Visit your local Sprint Store to register for a chance to win the $10,000 Money Talks Grand Prize or one of 25 $1,000 First Prizes. 
Sweepstakes ends 12/10/06. No purchase necessary. See store for complete sweepstakes rules. 
•Registration available at Sprint Stores or Preferred Retailer locations only. 
bad snap and the kick went to the left, only Stover's second miss in 21 tries this season. 
The Ravens knew then that it wasn't their day. 
By contrast, Shayne Graham connected from 23 and 27 yards in the first half, giving the Bengals an early lead and a chance to 
relax. 

Baltimore played the ond half without returne 
B.J. Sams, who broke th fibula in his lower right le while returning the kick His right foot twisted a wardly, and he was off the field on a cart wi his right ankle in a tive brace. 




Friday, December 1, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FooTBALL 
SEC commissioner balances conference with BCS 
Slive maintains that role with BCS is not a conflict of interests 
Associated Press NEW YORK As Southeastern Conference commissioner, Mike Slive's job is to be an advocate for his members at bowl time. He believes being Bowl Championship Series coordi­nator does not change that. The SEC is in prime posi­tion to get two teams in the BCS when the pairings are released Sunday. The winner of the SEC championship game between Arkansas and Florida on Saturday receives an automatic bid. LSU was fifth in the last BCS standings, right behind Florida, and will be in the mix for an at-large berth in one of the five big-money bowls. Slive said all commission­ers have a responsibility to promote their teams to bowl officials. "As commissioners, we talk with bowls about our teams, and we talk about how good we think they are and we know they are," Slive said Wednesday during a telecon­ference. "We talk about the fan base. I talk about the fact in the SEC that we had over 6.8 million people to 
our games this past year, and we just wanted to make sure that everyone knows all there is to know about the Southeastern Conference." 
The SEC champ will play in the Sugar Bowl, unless Florida can catch some breaks and reach the nation­al title game. LSU could be looking at a Rose Bowl bid. 
"I think you advocate as a commissioner, and as a BCS coordinator, my roles is to make sure that the system works properly, fairly and equitably," Slive said. 
Slive reiterated he's open to discuss changes in the current BCS systems, includ­ing the plus-one model which would set the championship game after the big four bowl games are played. 
In the current system, the top two teams after the regu­lar season meet in the BCS championship game. 
For the first time this sea­son five BCS games will be played instead of four. The championship game will be played on Jan. 8 in Glendale, Ariz., about a week after the Fiesta, Sugar, Rose and Orange bowls are played. 
Slive also said that the BCS should not influence. a con­ference's decision whether to play a league championship game. Of the original six BCS conferences, the SEC, Big 12 and Atlantic Coast championship game. So we have to put together our pri­orities and obviously we would love to win the nation­al championship, but we cer­tainly value and hold highly our (championship) game." 


-
-

Conference play title games, adding an extra difficult game to their schedules. The Pac-1 0, Big Ten and Big East do not. 
"One of the premises of the BCS is that every conference has the right to figure out how it wants to determine its champion," he said. "We (in the SEC) enjoy a champi­onship game and we can't dictate to any other league that they have to have a 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, December 1, 2006 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles prepare for DePauw Invitational meet 
Saint Mary's swimmers have put up outstanding times this season but are focused on team success this weekend 
tion," she said. "Now I just eight swimmers go to the relay team is ranked fifth. "I've asked the team to putBy BILL BRINK have to get first at the meet finals, and swimmers nine The Belles have struggled in a decent amount of Sports Writer and then I will be happy." through 16 go to consolation with depth all year, and a yardage during the 
Gerbeth is also ranked sec­races. The preliminary races large meet like this one will Thanksgiving holiday, and 
Halfway through a season ond in the 500 free and sixth are the most important. bring that deficiency into this week we've rested for a filled with great individual in the 200 free. "The prelim swims are cru­stark relief. few days and worked on success, the Belles will com­Freshman Sara Niemann cial because no "We are one of some of the different seg­pete today and Saturday in ranks sixth in the 200-yard one from the con­the smaller teams ments of our races,"
"There are going to
the DePauw Invitational, a backstroke and ninth in the solation finals can so we all have to Dombkowski said. 1 0-team meet 200 free. place ahead of be a lot of close do our best to Gerbeth said the team had hosted by DePauw Freshman anyone in the make an impact at been "taking it easy this
"It's a sign I'm races this week­
University. Lindsey Nelis finals regardless the meet," week."
making progress in end, and the most
The Belles have holds the seventh of their time dur­Gerbeth said. "We were all expected to four swimmers the right fastest time in the ing the evening competition we However, both swim hard last week on our who hold one of 200 free and 1Oth swim," Saint Dombkowski and breaks, and this week we are
direction." have seen so far. " 
the top-1 0 fastest fastest in the 500 Mary's coach Gerbeth expect relaxing our muscles a little times to date in free. Freshman Ryan Dombkowski other swimmers to more and preparing for the their events. Melissa Gerbeth Kayla Ferguson is said. Melissa Gerbeth step up, including meet," she said. "There are Sophomore Belles swimmer ranked seventh in The point sys­Belles swimmer freshman Jen going to be a lot of close Melissa Gerbeth both the 200-yard tem starts at 20 Lebiedz, sopho­races this weekend, and the ranks first out of 20 swim­individual medley and the points for first more Shannon most competition we have mers in the 1,650-yard 100-yard backstroke. place and decreases to one Hansen and junior Kelly seen so far, so we all want to freestyle with a time of In a large meet like this, point for 16th. Relays earn Tighe. be prepared." 
11:04. preliminary morning races double points, making them Saint Mary's, however, is 
"It's a sign I'm making pro­allow 16 swimmers to qualify an important factor. The anything but unprepared for Contact Bill Brink at gression in the right direc-for evening finals. The fastest Belles 800-yard freestyle the competition. wbrink@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Bruins are USC's only title barrier 
Georgia Tech takes on Wake Forest in ACC Championship game 

Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -The UCLA Bruins trudged off the Coliseum field following a 66-19 loss to Southern California last year with a feeling they'll always remember. 
And Bruins center Robert Chai believes that's a good thing. 
"I remember thinking as I stood in the tunnel, 'I don't ever want to feel this again,"' Chai said. "I don't want anyone on this team to forget what that felt like." 
The outcome might have been expected, but the margin of vic­tory wasn't. USC entered with an 11-0 record and UCLA was 9-1. 
"All year long, you talk about
-
this game," Chai said. "You talk about it at the beginning of the season, talk about it during the season, talk about it during sum­mer training. You talk about USC, that you want to beat them. And unfortunately the past cou­ple of years, we haven't done the job." Chai has a short memory ­USC has beaten UCLA seven straight times, not just the last couple of years. When the teams meet Saturday at the Rose Bowl, the Bruins will be shooting for their first win over their crosstown rivals since 1998. "Very frustrating. It makes you sick," Bruins cornerback Trey Brown said. "This is our oppor­tunity to shut people up and earn some respect. It's been way too long. It's got to stop some­
.

time. " While the Bruins may have 
been thinking about the Trojans
-for some time, as Chai said, that apparently hasn't been the case at USC. Coach Pete Carroll believes every game is a champi­onship game, and his players have embraced that philosophy. Now that it's UCLA week, though, Carroll and his players are free to speak on the signifi­cance of playing the Bruins. "We love this matchup and we love playing it, whether it's at the Coliseum or at the Rose 
Bowl," Carroll said. "We don't ers of recovery on Saturday. get to play another game for a The Georgia Tech quarterback long time -this is the last game is coming off a miserable per­we get to play this year. formance against Georgia, but 
"Next year, we get to play he doesn't have long to fret another game, so we will deal about it. The No. 23 Yellow with that when the time comes." Jackets (9-3) are facing 16th­
No. 2 USC (10-1, 7-1 Pac-10) ranked Wake Forest in the 
can clinch a berth  Atlantic  Coast  
in the BCS title game with a victo­ry -just like it did  "We have a tough game coming up. We  Conference cham­pionship game, with the winner  
last year. If the Trojans lose, they'll play in the Rose Bowl game.  know Reggie is not going to let it bother him at all."  claiming a spot in the Orange Bowl. "He'll come back strong," teammate  
They swear they  Calvin  Johnson  
won't be caught looking ahead.  Calvin Johnson Yellow Jackets receiver  predicted. "We have a tough game  

"The history of all sports says yes. The history of this football team says no," Carroll said regarding that possibility. "We haven't had problems with that. That is not a factor I'm concerned about at all." 
Win or lose, UCLA (6-5, 4-4) will oppose Florida State in the Emerald Bowl on Dec. 27 in San Francisco. 
The Trojans have a 41-27-7 record in the series that dates back to 1929, when they beat the Bruins 76-0. UCLA won eight straight before USC began its current seven-game winning streak. 
Some of the wildest games have been played at the Rose Bowl, where UCLA has played its home games since 1982. Before that, the teams shared the Coliseum. 
UCLA won a 20-19 decision in the first game the teams played at the Rose Bowl when the Trojans failed on a 2-point con­version in the final seconds. USC's Todd Marinovich threw a touchdown pass in the final minute to give his team a 45-42 victory in 1990. 
ACC Championship Game ­Georgia Tech vs. Wake Forest 
Reggie Ball has a way of bouncing back from his lowest moments. 
He'll certainly need those pow-
coming up. We know Reggie is not going to let it bother him at all." Clearly, Ball has a lot of forget­ting to do. 
Last week, the senior looked like a raw freshman in the 48th start of his career, completing just 6-of-22 passes for 42 yards in a 15-12 loss to Georgia Tech's most bitter rival. As if that was­n't bad enough, he was inter­cepted twice and coughed up a fumble that was returned for Georgia's first touchdown. 
"Reggie! Reggie! Reggie!" the Georgia crowd chanted derisive­ly. 
But Ball has been through this sort of thing before during an up-and-down career. As a fresh­man, he was picked off three times in a blowout loss to lowly Duke -the Blue Devils' first ACC win in four years -but h~ rebounded the following week with three touchdown passes to beat North Carolina. 
In 2004, Ball nearly lost his starting job when he completed just 20-of-54 with six intercep­tions in back-to-hack losses to North Carolina and Miami. He played much better in the next game, an upset win over Maryland, and coach Chan Gailey dismissed any thought of making a change. 
Ball's maddening inconsisten­cy stretched all the way to his senior season. 

Friday, December 1, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S SWIMMING 


No. 16 Notre Datne takes on 12 teatns in tournatnent 
This weekend's Ohio State Invitational will test the Irish as the team tries to improve on its program-best No. 16 ranking 
themselves," he said. "If we defeated 156-144 in a dual trying to get everyone pre­five relay wins and individual By CHRIS HINE don't, then they'll go the meet Nov. 2 -will only send pared for that." wins in the 200-backstroke Sports Writer other way." its diving team. Leading the way for the and 100-backstroke in dual 
Notre Dame will have the "We're looking forward to Irish this year with seven meet competition, while 
Things are looking up right chance this weekend to see the challenge," Welsh said. individual wins is senior Ted freshman John Lytle has also now for the men's swimming how much it has improved "That's why we came. We Brown. Brown has excelled in has five relay wins to go and diving team. over the last few months as it want to race in a variety of along with dual meet wins in 
Notre Dame is off to a 4-0 heads to Columbus to take the fastest possi­events, spread­the 100 and 200-yard
"/ think from top to
start this fall in its dual meet part in the Ohio State ble field and ing his seven freestyle. schedule and is cur-Invitational. make our fastest bottom, this is the wins over five "I think from top to bottom, rently ranked No. 16 The event will swimmers work different events this is the best team we've
best team we've"If we keep
in the latest College feature 12 teams, really hard." -the 200-yard had," Tallman said.
had."

Swim Coaches improving, the but only five uni­The meet will free, 200 IM, Welsh said he tries not to Association of rankings will versities will send include 15 indi-200 fly, 500 free let the early success get to America (CSCAA) poll both swimming vidual events and Tim Welsh and 1,000 free. the swimmers' heads by cri­
take care of 
-the highest ranking and diving teams. five relays, with Fellow senior tiquing their progress.
Irish coach 
in the program's his­themselves." Among them are the relays count­Tim Kegelman "Each guy has a list of tory. two other CSCAA ing for twice as also has seven things they can improve Head coach Tim ranked teams. No. many points as the individual wins overall, including five upon," Welsh said. "There's
Tim Welsh 
Welsh, however, 7 Minnesota and events. relay wins. always room for improve­
Irish coach 
knows this can all No. 12 Ohio State "The format is the same for The Irish have also benefit­ment." change quickly. round out the top-the Big East meet and the ed from the performances of "If we keep improving, the 25 competition, while No. 18 NCAAs," associate head coach their new team members. Contact Chris Hine at rankings will take care of Purdue -who the Irish Matt Tallman said. "We're Sophomore Jeff Wood has chine@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles look to shake off loss to Hope against Vikings 
Team faces second of five contests on road 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
Fresh off a 67-42 loss to Hope in its first conference game, Saint Mary's will try to regroup in its second of five games on the road against North Park tonight. 
The Belles continued to be hampered by turnovers, losing possession 29 times against Hope. The youth of the team factored into the prevalence of turnovers, said head coach Jennifer Henley, but it was not the only culprit. 
"We need to do a better job of recognizing defense before passing," she said. 
The Belles face a tough Viking offense led by senior guards Laura Mount and Lauren Martin. Martin shoots a fiery 60 percent from three-point range, and Mount leads the team in scoring with 16.7 
points per game. Stopping them will be a challenge. 
"We need to contain Martin Friday night," Henley said. "She is a very good shooter. We will have to find her in transi­tion and make her work for every shot." 
The Belles are up to the task, however. The Saint Mary's defense held Hope junior guard Jordan Boles -who has shot 
43.2 percent from the field on the season -to just six points on 3-of-11 shooting. 
"Boles is a great player. We 

~~~----~~~~~~~~ 

told the team to find her in Bridget Lipke -will have to transition and not give any perform better than against help off of her defensively," Hope, a game in which they Henley said. "Alison Kessler combined to shoot 19 percent guarded her most of the from the field. evening and she "Hope focused really did a nice job on shutting down
"We will rely on
on her." Lipke and Kessler, Even if the defense our defense and like we expected performs well, the them to," Henley
rebounding."
Vikings -who sink said. "They have 
43.8 percent of their been our leaders field goal attempts Jennifer Henley from the begin­-will ensure that Belles coach ning." 
the game will be a shootout. Saint Mary's must keep up on offense as well. 
"We always want to look to score in transition and have that up tempo style of basket­ball," Henley said. "We will rely on our defense and rebounding to take care of Martin, Mount and (junior for­ward Evie] Peterson." 
For this to happen, Saint Mary's offensive leaders ­Kessler and senior guard 
In addition, the 
post players will have to do a better job of pro­ducing and making their pres­ence known. 
"We have been telling our post players all season that they need to step up and be a factor," Henley said. "Anna [Kammrath] did a great job on the boards for us and got some easy buckets." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, December 1, 2006 
N D VOLLEYBALL 

Irish prepare for first round of NCAA tourney 
Notre Dame will travel to Madison tonight to take on the Badgers in its 15th consecutive postseason appearance 
There's more to Wisconsin freshman outside hitter most similar to Louisville, in set that we can achieve an By DEVIN PRESTON 
than defense, however. Brown Christina Kaelin's 3.56 kills that they're big at the net, they upset." Spons Wrirer 
said she is equally concerned per game, and is balanced by have very tall players. They're Going up against teams about how the Irish defense 3.08 kills per game from junior better than Louisville," Brown favored to win is not some­Notre Dame kicks off NCAA will fare against a high-pow­Adrianna Stasiuk and another said. "Better defensively, but thing new for the Irish, espe­Tournament play with a match ered Badgers 2.99 kills per that's the team cially in recent at No. 10 Wisconsin tonight at attack. game from soph­that's most simi-play. Notre 8 p.m. Facing such a highly "They have a "They have good omore Mallorie lar to what we're Dame has been ranked team in the first round well balanced Croal. going to see." "It's a challenge, but seen as the
net play and
of the tournament will chal­offense as well," W h i e Wisconsin will underdog in its
blocking. I think not one that's too
lenge Notre Dame, but the Brown said. Wisconsin ranks be looking for a last four match­Irish are ready to go up The Badgers they're one ofthe just third in the chance to put big for us to es. against Wisconsin. (23-7) are led Big Ten, its Notre Dame's handle." But an under­
top five blocking
Notre Dame, now in its 15th offensively by national ranking season to an end dog mentality
teams in the
consecutive appearance in the freshman out­shows that the this year. but the will only take
Debbie Brown 
NCAA Tournament, is one of side hitter country right now." Big Ten is a very Irish are entering the Irish so far. 
Irish coach 
only eight teams to be so pro­Brittney Dolgner, strong conference the tournament For Brown, the lific in the post-season. who has been and has prepared with a strong crucial element
Debbie Brown 
Irish head coach Debbie able to rack up and toughened desire to over-will bP the play­
Irish coach 
Brown knows her team will 4.14 kills per the team for the come the nationally ranked ers working together as a have to bring its best against game. Other key postseason. obstaele in thoir way. team. the Badgers. players on the Wisconsin dis­"It's a challenge, but not one "There's really not one thing 
"They're a strong team, no Wisconsin squad inelude fellow plays a level of play mueh that's too big for us to handle," that will make the difference," question," she said. "They All Big-Ten players Taylor higher than that of' the Big Brown said. "It's dPfinitely she said. "We need to have a have good net play and block­Reineke, with 1.62 blocks per East opponents Notre Dame something we can handle. total team effort." ing. I think they're one of the game, and Jackie Simpson, has played during the regular We're at the point where we top five blocking teams in the with 12.86 assists per game. season. have nothing to lose, and Contact Devin Preston at country right now." The Irish offense is led by "IWiseonsinl is probably we're going in with the mind-dpresto1@nd.edu 
said. "We have marquee wins tempo of the game," of establishing how many play-time of the season. . . . highlighted wins on our non­McAlarney said . ers will be in the "[We] try to jump start him a
Terps 

conference schedule that could "We're just going regular rotation. little bit, try to see if we got continued from page 24 mean a lot at the end of the to go out there, "J think it's going Freshmen Tory nine lin the rotation)." Brey year." have fun, nothing Jackson and said. "I think if you've watched
to be very 
Point guard Kyle McAlarney to lose for us, and Luke IIarangody, us the last couple games, is it beating Maryland -and fol­said the Irish will need to pres­we're just gonna important for us to along with soph­nine, is it eight, is it eight and lowing it with a win against sure the ball and control the play. We're not control the tempo omore Zach a half, is it nine? I think we're Alabama -would give the game speed to beat Maryland. scared or them llillcsland, have really trying to figure that
of the game. " 
team confidence heading into McAlarney scored 10 points and we're not been the first out." the Big East season. against Winston-Salem State backing down." three off the Tip off between Notre Dame 
"If you can play well this and said he's still figuring out Brey used his Kyle McAiarney b e n c h and Maryland is scheduled for week, get a couple wins, it a balance between running the entire bench in Irish guard Sophomore Hyan 6:30 p.m. Sunday. could jumpstart something that team and looking for his shot. Wednesday's win Ayers played 21 could be really special, there's "I think it's going to be very and said after the minutes Monday, Contact Bob Griffin at no doubt about that," Falls important for us to control the game he is still in the process his first significant chunk of rgriffi3@nd.edu 

Interrace Forum. Seasons of Celebration 
ALLISON AMBROSE!The Observer 
Sophomore guard Kyle McAiarney dribbles down the court in a 95-40 win over Winston-Salem Nov. 29. 
Dinner and Discussion Wednesday, Deccmbt..--r 6th 5 P.M., Coleman...Morse Lounge RSVP by Monday, December 4th 




(574)631..6841 or msps@nd.edu 
Sponsored by the Office of Multicultural Student Programs and Services 
Friday, December 1, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Nanooks 
continued from page 24 
But this season the No. 14 Nanooks (6-2-4, 4-1-3 CCHA) will encounter a bigger and vastly improved Irish team when they return to South Bend to play No. 5 Notre Dame (10-3-1, 5-2-1 CCHA) this weekend in the first two of four games between the teams. 
Alaska's size and ability to control the puck better than an undersized Irish team in the playoff series forced Irish coach Jeff Jackson to institute a heavy offseason strength program. 
"Alaska was the one that really forced us to add some girth on our team," Jackson said. "Our guys added a lot of weight, strength and a big part of that was due to the fact that Alaska is not the only team that's big. Lake Superior is a big, physical team and Ferris State has some big guys on their team. You run across VeNard said. "They're a little more sore now. Obviously there were mistakes made on the weekend, so we paid for them." 
The Irish must improve on scoring five-on-five and receive significant contribu­tions from multiple forward lines each night, Jackson said, but also to maintain the stellar defense -first in the nation with 1.36 goals allowed per game -that has launched the team into the national spot­light. 
"Part of that is not just from a defensive perspective. part of that is from we're doing a much better job possessing the puck," Jackson said. "And that's the best defense of all, when you're not throwing the puck away -when you're cycling and controlling the tempo of the game." 
The series will begin at 7:05 

p.m. at the Joyce Center Saturday, due to the football banquet being held in the 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
Wolves 
continued from page 24 
starting four of the Wolverines seven games this season. She is second on the team in both points per game (8. 9) and rebounds per game (5.4). 
"[Phillips has] done a lot of goo-d things. She's definitely somebody who's going to be a force for us just because of her size [6-foot-6]," McGraw said. 
But Phillips is not the only Wolverines freshman making an impact. Freshman starting guard LeQuisha Whitfield has started all seven games for Michigan this season, averag­ing 9.4 points per game in 19.3 
stopped our momentum." 
Johnson is currently ninth in the nation in goals-against average (1. 96) and 12th in save percentage (.923), while Rogers has a 3.43 average and .895 percentage in four games. 
"I think they're both very 
good," Jackson 

that with different teams in college hockey, and you have to be prepared to play against either type of team if you're going to be successful." 
The Irish added the weight, a speedy freshman class and a lot more to launch themselves to the top of the national rank­ings, but Alaska 
has worked its way into the top 15 behind sever­ "Alaska was the one that really  .said. "Wiley Rogers played great against us  
al new contribu­ forced us to add  last  year  - I  
tors. Among them is sopho­more goaltender  sqme girth on our team.,,  wouldn't be sur­prised to see him either, they know  
Chad  Johnson,  he  played well  
who has taken control of a majority of the  Jeff Jackson Irish coach  against us too." The Nanooks' success lies not  
starting job from  only in their size  

junior Wylie Rogers -the and strong defense behind stonewall behind the Nanook Johnson's goaltending, but playoff series win. also a potent offensive attack 
"We thought we were kind of behind junior left wing Kyle clicking at the right time last Greentree and newcomer Dion year, but we ran into a hot Knelsen. Greentree is Alaska's goaltender and a team that scoring leader (11 goals, nine matched up well against us," assists), while Knelsen is Irish defenseman Dan VeNard fourth with four goals and six said of Rogers and last year's assists. playoffs. "And they kind of just Prior to an injury in early November against Nebraska­Omaha, Knelsen had been fourth in the nation in points per game (1.5), earning recog­nition from pro scouts. He was named an "A" prospect Nov. 15 by the National Hockey League's Central Scouting Service, a label saying he has the potential to be drafted in the first three rounds of the upcoming NHL draft -the first "A" prospect in Alaska history. Knelsen is also 17 years old, the second youngest player in college hockey. 
"They do a real nice job of recruiting in my opinion," Jackson said. "They've got some talented players on their team and adding another offensive skilled player is no different than us." 
Notre Dame enters the weekend series after a late loss Saturday to Nebraska­Omaha. The Irish allowed a third-period goal on a Maverick five-on-three to lose 3-2-something they paid for in practice Tuesday. 
"Practice was fun, we got the legs going a little bit," 
minutes. 
Even with these two fresh­men, the Wolverines have a veteran-heavy lineup that returns all five starters from last season as well as 10 letter winners. But McGraw said Notre Dame's combination of veterans and freshmen will also be effective in Ann Arbor. 
"We've got some veterans and we certainly start a veter­an lineup, but our freshmen play so many minutes," she said. Their contribution has been tremendous, and we do get a little bit younger when we sub." 
But this youth will definitely play a factor in the Irish bid for their first win away from the Joyce Center. 
HANG TIME 

KELLY HIGGINS/The Observer Wide receiver Rhema McKnight goes up to catch a pass during a 41-9 win over Army Nov. 18. McKnight had two TDs in the game. 
"That's our youth showing been unable to box out oppo­again, I think. We're working nents effectively. The Irish on it," McGraw said of her have been outrebounded 36.3­team's road woes this season. 37 against consistently smaller 
"We're looking to  opposition.  
see what kind of  "We're  really  
things we can change up on gameday, maybe  "We certainly start a veteran lineup  concentrating on rebounding where every drill  
getting on a  bus  but our freshmen  we're  talking  
will be getting a little different than getting on a  play so many minutes.,,  about rebound­ing, seeing if we can improve indi­ 
plane."  vidually,"  
One of the things McGraw has stressed this  Muffet McGraw Irish coach  McGraw said. "We're watching a lot of film to  
season has been  stress how we've  

her team's rebounding. Notre got to box out a little bit better Dame has struggled at times an I think we're doing it." on the boards, and despite four Even though the Irish have big home wins, the team has had trouble getting the ball off the glass, they have been able to put it in the hoop in their four wins this season. The team has outscored opponents 86.8-70, giving up less than 70 points to every opponent but one. 
The game against Michigan is the first of a three-game stretch against Big Ten oppo­nents for the Irish, who will follow the Wolverines with home games against in-state rivals Indiana and Purdue on Sunday and Wednesday of next week. Despite these two big games next week, McGraw and her team remain focused on the task at hand-Michigan. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 

Lunch and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame Thursday, December 7 
12:00 p.m. -1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 


The Core Council invites gay, lesb,an, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame fam1ly, their friends, and supporters to an informal lunch at the Co-Mo. Everyone 1s welcome and wofident1alily is assured. lunch will be served 
CURE C!J!JNC!l 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN
STUDENTS 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, December 1, 2006 
lost to Portland in the quarter­has made the College Cup Seminoles, they will face Texas A&M in College Station. finals last year. Semis in three of the last four either the Bruins or Tar Heels. The Tar Heels have won 25
Finals 

"Our group knows how to seasons. Last season, it fell 4-0 UCLA (21-3) is appearing in its straight games since then, 
continued from page 24 win every time they step on 
the field," Waldrum said. would be good," sophomore "That's a credit to our seniors forward Kerri Hanks said. and our younger players have 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum, bought into it." who will be taking Notre Dame The Irish have torn through to its fourth Final Four in their opposition so far in the eight years as head coach, NCAA Tournament, outscoring said that although expecta­Oakland, Wisconsin­tions are high for his top­Milwaukee, Colorado and Penn 
ranked squad, he  State by a  com­ 
doesn't expect it  bined  score  of  
to be affected by  'There's no added  16-1.  
the pressure. "There's no added pressure to  pressure to get this far because we  Forwards Michele Weissenhofer,  
get this because  far we  expected this."  Brittany Bock and Hanks have  
expected this," Waldrum said. "Just the fact that  Randy Waldrum Irish coach  combined for 10 goals in the four games.  
we're  Notre  "I  feel  like  
Dame sometimes  we've played very  

adds pressure and when you well lately," Waldrum said. add the 'No. 1' tag to that, we "We've been solid defensively always get the other team's and gotten good chances on best effort." offense. But I still hope our 
For the Irish upperclassmen, best two games are ahead of this weekend represents a us." chance to win their second The Seminoles come into national championship in today's game 18-3-4, with two three years. Notre Dame beat of their three losses coming to UCLA for the 2004 fitle, but the Tar Heels. Florida State to UCLA in the semifinal. 
"Florida State's got a really good team and a really up and coming program," Waldrum said. "They're very athletic." 
The Seminoles beat Clemson 2-1 last Friday to advance to this year's semifinals. 
Florida State is led offensive­ly by forward Selin Kuralay. The junior from Melbourne, Australia has scored 13 goals and dished out three assists so far this season. 
Freshman midfielder Becky Edwards leads most Seminole counterattacks, finding open teammates to the tune of eight assists this season. 
Florida State will play a defensive style against the aggressive Irish, relying on a defense that has allowed just .59 goals per game this season and has registered 11 shutouts. 
"They'll bunker in and look to counter-attack," Waldrum said. "We're going to have to be patient offensively because they'll put a lot of people in the box." 
If the Irish can get by the 


ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR 
8:00p.m. 'Saturday, December 9, 2006 
2:00 p.m.' Sunday, December I 0, 2006 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL Fttl,.
DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS W 
TICKETS $10/$8/$51$3 UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PHONE 574-631-2800 DEPAIITMf.NT Of MUSIC 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
CHORALE & CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 

fourth semifinal in four years, while North Carolina (25-1) is looking to add to already impressive tradition in women's soccer. 
The Tar Heels have won 18 national titles in the 25 years since the NCAA started award­ing women's soccer National Championships. 
"You look back and it's 'North Carolina, North Carolina, North Carolina," Hanks said. "We have tremen­dous respect for them and their program." 
North Carolina's only loss this year came on Aug. 25, 1-0 in double overtime against 
shutting out 15 opponents. 
Notes: 

+ Both the semifinals and final this weekend are expect­ed to draw more than 7,000 fans, easily the largest crowd the Irish have played in front of this year. 
"[The crowd] shouldn't be a big deal," senior captain Kim Lorenzen said. "It'll be just like any other big game." 
+ Today's game will be tele­vised live on ESPN U and car­ried on tape delay on ESPN 2 at noon on Saturday. Sunday's contest will be televised live on ESPN 2. 

Irish freshman Courtney Rosen dribbles around a St. John's defender in a 3-0 win in the Big East tournament Oct 29. 
Lupita's c;;·ft Shop l . ...,ool"-iint~ foe:· sont:e-thing s.p~~<!ial·t~.;)r this (:::11rist~nas :? 'V\/e have a big selection ot' r~?Jigic:s.us st:a.J:ues.. :li&t'"3_gel.s., a:nd w~~~~ ha~ngings R.osa:riic..'!S b:a.ndcra:f"ted in f\.-·t"::~xico <..:us-t.:nn UlUl.di!:!' _it~vve-Jry and .silver 
Shth.:tes of our lady of' <:.;s.uu:h~lupc <:~r~.scit'"ix.es t'and .I!UOI·e.. 
l,.l<.>::t:St."' vi.sit us: .$Jilt" .3616 I'\·'.tisha·'\"\-';,tka ...."-.ve. in Sout-h l:l.t:i.~nd~ Tel. (574) 233-1330 

-


Friday, December 1, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE

JOCULAR 



ADAM FAIRHOLM 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JJ&Wrn&IR 
Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
-
to form four ordinary words. 
DABIE 
1 
rJ b

©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
i~fflJ 
tSIMPOE ~ 
WHAT THE: OIL-MAN ENDED UP WITH
J (J J 
WHEN HE 5 TRUCK 
www.jumble.com 

IT RICH YARPER 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

rI J I I 
suggested by the above car-
Answer: 

AlI I J'l I I I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday' I Jumbles: CHEEK BRIAR FETISH CRAYON s Answer: When the family went on vacation, they 
took -IT EASY 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  37 Locale of more  58 Illegally  
1 Suit protector? 16 2003 Pancho Villa portrayer 17 Some European political leaders 18 Book of the Book of Mormon 19 Powers that be 20 Spread stick 21 French shaker contents  than 50 volcanoes 38 Classic piano tune first recorded in 1921 39 The "gods" in "Chariots of the Gods?," in brief 40 Lover of Orion 41 Places where organs may be seen: Abbr.  59 Time in Times Square DOWN 1 Exhausts, say 2"_hand ... " 3 Blake on "M*A*S*H," e.g. 4 Two, in Brazil 5 Bambi's aunt 6 Nonexistent 7 Conductors'  
22 Large number  42 Radio station  places  
24 Exerciser's target 26 Word repeated  expense 43 Charge of Moses  8 Evening, in Emden 9 Natural butters  
in "The Whiffenpoof Song"  45 Letter getters: Abbr. 48 Goldfish in  1o"Is that ?" 11 Agcy. founded to help fight  
27 Something that  "Pinocchio"  malaria  
might roll over,  51 Claret  12 Lengthy meals?  
briefly  alternative,  13 Orsk is on it  
28 J.F.K.'s U.N.  briefly  14 Poet who wrote  
ambassador  52 It's drawn for  the novel ''The  
31 Statement  the dirty  Fathers"  
subsequently 53 Isn't pleasant to belied remember ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE ~=+::+.::-!  15 Brand with a tiger mascot 22 Like some onions 23 Ones associated with wheels and deals 24 Where you may  32 Hopped off 33 Team with a bridge in its logo 34 Its flag has a big white circle in the middle 35 Novelist Packer  42 Really fancy 43 Is in harmony 44 Pass 45 Kind of salad 46 Lustrous fur 47 Dig discovery: Var.  50 St. Louis bridge designer 51 Paula of CNN 52 Company 54 Long intro? 55 Symphony score abbr.  
see a bust 25 Crybabies  36 Kentucky _, annual  48 Lead 49 River through  56 Beyond medical help, for short  
26 Spell  Louisville race  Yakutsk  57 Beer holder  
27 Start of a 20  
-::+=+::,-fi!I!IP!II 29 Swirl 


Questions For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with aquestion 

credit card, 1-800-814-5554. ~~+.ot-;:t...-t.~:+::-t-;-t 28 1948 Chemistry Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday Nobelist Tiselius crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
-+~-,;:;+:,;+;:+=i 30 Deflation 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for youngindicator solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.31 Deceptive play 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ____________ State _______ Zip__________ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kaley Cuoco. 21: Clay Aiken, 28: Ben Stiller, 
41: Billy Idol, 51 

Happy Birthday: It's time for you to get serious about life and your future. This year. it will be up to you to make· serious decisions based on what you have experienced in the past. It is a year to make love, not war, so embrace what is meaningful. Your numhcrs arc 8. 19. 26, 39, 43.47 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You are on top of things today and. as long as you don't let your emotions get in the way, you should be able to geL things done and advance. Travel plans can be organized quickly. Talk with individuals who can help you get what you want. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Keep your financial matters to yourself. The less people know about what you have. the less they will gossip about you. An emotional situation that needs to be handled tactfully must be given greater attention. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Gel with the program and you will open up doors that have been closed in the past. By giving back Loan organization in need, you will put yourself in a position to deal with some inlluential people, able to help you in retum. A love relationship will become more exciting. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): The less talk and the more action, the better. Be honest about what you can and can't do and move on quickly. Today isn't about winning points. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Speak your mind, go after your goals, take a chance or fall deeper in love. Anything and everything is possible today. Put in a little time and effort and, presto, you will have your way and get what you want. Don't take a foolish risk. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug_ 23-Sept 22): Although you can make money and get things done contractually today, it won't be easy to deal with personal and emotional matters. Not everyone will feel the same way you do so don't make a decision without getting approval frrst. 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct-22): Join forces with someone you feel is creative. Publish, write a paper or travel to a destination that will bring you added knowledge. A love connection can be made, rekindled or taken to the next level. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov_ 21): Your mind may be on personal issues but try to concentrate on where the money is and how you can make more of it. Business is looking good. Focus and good things will come your way. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov_ 22-Dec. 21): You can get things done, push things through and complete what you've left unfinished. This is a great day to get up early and conquer all that's been irritating you or slowing you down. Don't be afraid to speak your mind. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec_ 22-Jan. 19): Nothing will be done on time or on schedule. Prepare to wait and, most of all, don't let stress get to you. Not everyone will agree with you but if you really believe in what you are doing, follow through but be quiet about it. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can make some crucial changes today that will ensure a better future. Don't look back at past mistakes or trials. Instead, consider what you can do to get ahead and change your life for the better. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If you slow down you will lose ground, time and support. Fickleness on the part of someone you thought you could count on may be upsetting. Try to compensate for others' shortcomings. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are energetic and eager to show your worth. You have a fun-loving approach to life but, at the same time, have a serious side. You are dominant, helpful and generous. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, December 1, 2006 
page 24 
-
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Gone to Carolina 
Irish travel -south for last two games of the NCAA College Cup 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 

No. 1 Notre Dame is 24-0-1 this season. 
The Irish have outscored their opponents 82-8 and recorded 18 shutouts, includ­ing not allowing a goal in their last three tournament games. 
Right now, however, none of that matters. 
Notre Dame will travel to Cary, N.C., for a College Cup semifinal matchup with No. 5 Florida State 6:30 p.m. today at SAS Soccer Park. 
If the Irish get past the Seminoles, they will take on the winner of No. 3 UCLA and co-No. 1 North Carolina for a chance to reach the one goal Notre Dame has focused on since August -the national championship. 
"We've done everything we possibly can so far, so if we can win the whole thing, that 
see FINALS/page 22 

ND WOMEN'S 
BASKETBALL 

NDhopes to get first road -win 
McGraw has team ready for Ann Arbor 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 

After going 0-2 with 53.5 points per game in its first two road matchups this season, Notre Dame is ready to turn this trend around tonight at Michigan. 
The Irish (4-2) are coming off a big win against Richmond Tuesday night, while the Wolverines (5-2) look much improved after winning only four games all of last season. 
"They're off to their best start in a long time," McGraw said. "They've got a new sixth player -[freshman center Krista] Phillips -who's really changing the game for them." 
Phillips has been able to take over games despite only 
see WOLVES/page 21 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish face two big tests 
in Terps and Alaban1a 
ND plays No. 19 Maryland this weekend 
By BOB GRIFFIN Sports Writer 

Notre Dame faces the biggest challenge of its young season Sunday when it trav­els to the Verizon Center in Washington, D.C. to play No. 19 Maryland in the BB&T Classic. 
Maryland (7 -0) has already defeated three major confer­ence schools this season with wins over Michigan State, St. John's and Illinois. Irish coach Mike Brey said Wednesday following Notre 
,-Dame's 90-45 win over Winston-Salem State that the Terrapins could be one of the hottest teams in the country. "We have a great opportu­nity against Maryland, the,y're a hell of a basketball team," Brey said. "They're men, they're old, they've [been] 
around and they're confident. But we've played well in that place down there, I'm still referring to it as the MCI Center." 
Brey said Maryland is pro­ductive getting inside against its opponents, making it important that Notre Dame doesn't relax on defense when it moves from man-to­man sets into two-three zones. 
"They get into your paint on cuts, they get into your paint on drives, they get into your paint on offensive rebounds," Brey said. "That theme that we talked about from the first week of practice as a point of emphasis will really be tested against this group on Sunday." 
Notre Dame guard Colin Falls said Wednesday that 
see TERPS/page 20 
HOCKEY 

Team tries to bear N anooks 
No. 16 Alaska swept the Irish during last trip to South Bend 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
In the Inuit language a nanook is a polar bear, but in Inuit mythology Nanook was the master of bears -the power that determined if hunters deserved success in the pursuit of their prey, and a fitting nickname for the team that out-powered Notre Dame last season. 
The Nanooks of the University of Alaska played the role of their mythological forebear last year and decid­ed that Notre Dame did not deserve to move on to the sec­ond round of the 2006 CCHA playoffs, sweeping the Irish out in a first round series at the Joyce Center. 
see NANOOKS/page 21 



SMC SWIMMING 
MlB
ND VOllEYBAll 
ND SWIMMING 
SMC BASKETBAll 
NHl 
1,1,1 

Philadelphia Philles 
Boston 4
DePauw Invite 

Belles at
Ohio State Invite 
c.:» Notre Dame at 
sign right-handed pitch-
North Park 
Toronto 3 

z Wisconsin 
er Adam Eaton to a
Tonight, 7 p.m. 
Bruins wing Phil
Today-Saturday

::5 Tonight, 8 p.m. 
Today-Sunday 

three-year contract. 
The Belles look to con-

The No. 16 Irish take 
Saint Mary's tries to 
Kessell scores shootout
The NCAA tourney 
tinue their early success

their 4-0 record to 
capture its first MIAA 
goal to give Boston the 
= c opens up with match in 
in a 10 team meet this

Columbus to face stiff 
conference win of the 
comeback victory. 
=: 
Madison. 
weekend.
competition. 
year. 
page 18 
page 19 
page 15 

page 14
U) page 20 
page 19 




