-------------.....,..---------------------------------------------~~~-~--­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Tickets vie for student leadership 
Presidential, vice presidential candidates vary in experience, age, goals for Notre Dame 
men -and the firth is split ... it will be at the forefront [of pushing the spring semester 
By MADDIE HANNA and 
betweon a sophomore and fresh­our administration]." move-out day from Saturday to 
KAREN LANGLEY 
man. bringing tho total number In light of' student evictions Sunday and adding items to the News Writers 
of frnshmen in tho race to five. from Turtle Creek Apartments Grab-and-Go system, such as The pair boasting tho most stu­after last summer's passage of ramen noodles and popcorn. 
Apart from a sharml focus on dent government experience is the disorderly house ordinance Shappell and Andrichik have mmmunity rnlations, this year's Shappell and junior dass presi­by the South Bend Common been heavily involved in student candidatns for Notre Dame stu­dent Bill Andriehik, both juniors. Council, community relations has government since freshman year, dent body prnsidcnt and vice Given their ties to the current been a focus of Baron's prcsiden­when Shappell served on the prnsident vary j.,rrnatly in oxpnri­administration, lod by student ey. Shappell and Andrichik prom­Service and Spirituality mu~o. goals and age. body president Dave Baron, ise to pick up where the current Committee for then-student body 
One ticket is Jed by currnnt stu­Shappell said continuing to pur­administration leaves off, build­president Emily Chin and dnnt body vice president Lizzi sue this year's student govern­ing partnerships with the Notre Andrichik was the Stanford Shappnll. Another is headed by ment initiatives is "to be expect­Dame Law School to arrange Freshman Class Council repre­.Jason Laws, a mmnbor of the nd." legal aid dinies, a telephone hot­sentative and Freshman Class 2004-05 national championship "Obviously, we have some con­linn and office hours as resources Treasuror. fnneing team. Anothor two are tinuity," Shappell said. "The ordi­to help off-campus students. mmplotnly comprisnd of fresh-nance issue, we think that's huge Less weighty plans include see ELECTION/page 6 
SMC questions paper usage, printing habits 


Keenan Revue tickets gone -within minutes 
anyone away," Cappa said. 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
"We seemed to have just
N,·ws Writer 
enough for everyone who 
wanted one." 
Notr11 !>arne and Saint Tiekets for the Feb. 9 and Mary's students quickly 11 shows were sold out with­snatchnd up tickets Friday for in 14 minutes, and tickets for t h n so m n ti rnns-e on trove rsial tho Feb. 10 show were sold Kennan Hnvun. The annual out within hall' an hour, show comody show -now in its producer Thomas Flowers :Wth year-sold out all three said. of' its performances within In addition to the tickets minutes. given away at the JACC and 
Kennan gavp, away 1,300 Saint Mary's, naeh Keenan tkkets at Notre Damn's .Joyce n1sidnnt receives at least four Athlotie and Convocation tickets and more arc reserved Center and in the ()'Laughlin for YIPs and faculty mem­Auditorium lobby at Saint bers. Mary's. Ticket sales for Notre The Kennan Hovue -which Damn lwgan at 4 p.m. at the Keenan's Web site calls "tho .JACC and at I p.m. at Saint lorw spark of' entertainment Mary's. during the spring semester" 
l'eopln began lining up at -will be performed in tho thn .IACC at noon. tieket man­()'Laughlin Auditorium at agnr .I..I. Cappa said. 
"Wn didn't have to turn see REVUE/page 3 
use the free printers on campus 
By LISA GALLAGHER at all, preferring to use person­
News Writer al printers in their rooms, oth­
ers use printers daily -and IT 
Saint Mary's students enjoy is overspending on paper each many luxuries -large dorm semester to try to eompensate. rooms, on-campus apartments Hausmann said the cost of and free eable among them -paper per ream is $2.40, or but one luxury students may $4.80 per 1,000 pages. not realize they have is free One disturbing trend wit­printing on eampus. nessed by computer cluster 
If paper usage and printing consultants and residential habits remain a.<; they are now, computer consultants involves however, that may ehange. students removing paper from 
According to director of stu­campus printers or taking dent computing Kathy entire reams from unlocked Hausmann, Information storage cabinets for use in their Technology (IT) spent personal printers. $1,870.72 last semester in While campus printing rules order to stock the College's var­state a print limit of one copy ious computer centers with per document per student, on­389,735 sheets of paper -site recycling containers aeross approximately 260 pages per campus are stuffed with paper. student per semester. 
While some students do not see PAPER/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

ND group aims for free speech 
Coalition formed for student expression 
By ADRIENNE RUFFNER News Writer 

Notre Dame students eon­corned about aeademie fren­dom and artistie expression plan to take aetion and makn their voices heard through a new coalition called United for Free Speech. 
United for Froe Speech is a group of students whose stat­ed aim is to promote dialogue about the r11cent campus con­troversies surrounding "The Vagina Monologues" and Queer Film Festival. The group formed· as a response to University President Father John Jnnkins' speeches to fac­ulty and students Jan. 23 and 24, which questioned ­among other things -the events' appropriateness in light of the University's Catholie character. 
The organizers of United for Free Speech said they worry potential University policies stemming from tho addrosses will limit students' ability to express themselves. 
"The group, United for Free Speech, will advocate and work for a University environ­ment that proteets acadernie freedom and respects diversi­ty," said a press release issued 
see SPEECH/page 3 



Chuck D raps on racism, tnusic 

By NICOLE ZOOK Assistant News Editor 
Controversial and influential rapper Chuck D -founder of the group Public Enemy and well-known musie Web site rapstation.com -filled the house and fought the power Thursday night with a Black History Month keynote leeture on "Hap, Haee and Heality." 
The lecture, which was filled to mass capacity with a ethni­cally diverse crowd, was spon­sored by the Offiee of the President, Office of' Student Affairs and Student Government, said Student Senate Minority Affairs chair Hhea Boyd. 

"A lot of the evonts for Black touching and humorous "vibn culturn, rap's history, the worth History Month this year are session" pepp11rod with profan­of' a college education and the contered around culture and ity -"this ain't no lexplntivel stall~ of tho United States today. music -and who hotter to Gipper speech," he warned the "America is reaching the speak on that than a legendary audience before beginning. point wlwre antilndualisrn and rapper?'' she said. Gipper speech or no, I> was dumbassification aro eoming 
Born Carlton Douglas up front about his wide variety Ridenhour, Chuek D delivered a of topics, whieh inducted black see CHUCK D/pagc 4 page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The eternal city 
For most American college-age journal­ists, an assignment in Rome to cover University representatives' interaction with Vatican officials within 48 hours would be a mission impossible. Jetlag, culture shock, the language barrier, confusing trans­
portation and wind­ing streets would  . Claire Kelley  
present serious  
logistical problems. But for me, it was  Photo Editor  
like going home.  
Last week, when  

The Observer decided to send a writer and a photographer to Rome, my heart stopped. Two years ago, I studied abroad in the Saint Mary's Program in the center of historic Rome, and I walked the ancient streets until I knew them by heart. 
Since those eight months in Rome, I have returned to my old neighborhood many times. In my dreams, I wait at the light in Largo di Torre Argentina. When the cars and motorinos finally stop, I run across the street and onto the cobblestones, passing the bar Pascucci's and our classroom building door until I catch a glimpse of my favorite building-the Pantheon. 
Last week, in the midst of our frantic schedule, I was able to physically take Maddie, the Observer writer, to my favorite places in Rome. Pausing in the steps of the fountain in the Piazza della Rotunda, we stood before the magnificent fac;ade of the Pantheon. Then we walked through the massive bronze doors to stare up in awe at the oculus and perfect dimensions. 
I took her to Campo dei Fiori, and we sat on the steps of the Giordano Bruno statue, eating panini from Aristocampo and soak­ing in the energy of the bustling market­place where flowers, fish, fruit and vegeta­bles are sold. 
In one of my favorite movies, "I.:Auberge Espagnole," the narrator explains, "When you first arrive in a new city, nothing makes sense. Everything's unknown ... After you've lived here, walked these streets, you'll know them inside out. You'll know these people. Once you've lived here, crossed this street 10, 20, 1000 times, it'll belong to you ..." 
In some ways, this sentiment goes beyond the physical nature of Rome. While the art, grandeur and spectacle at the Vatican is impressive, the sense of spiritu­ality that I found in Rome goes beyond the pomp and circumstance. It is a deep sense of awe at the architectural achievement, a new understanding of Ia dolce vita through the fantastic food and a lesson in human passion, where people will always remem­ber you with an intense loyalty. 
When I learned that Father John Jenkins could be attending the Pope's public audi­ence, I contacted the director of the Saint Mary's Program, Dr. Portia Prebys. I explained my situation, and asked ifshe knew how to obtain special permission for photography at the Vatican. 
Sure enough, she knew the perfect per­son-Thaddeus Jones, a Vatican official and a 1989 Notre Dame graduate who studied in the Saint Mary's Program. As I sat in the media gallery high above the papal audience with professional photog­raphers, I captured the moment when the pope spoke to Father Jenkins about Notre Dame. There and then, I realized that the sequence of events that made my dreams become reality and that moment possible could have only happened in such a magi­cal place -Rome, the eternal city. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Claire Kelley at ckelley2@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please con­tact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, February 6, 2006 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF NOTRE DAME'S PARKING POLICIES? . 




Joel Steiner 
sophomore Stanford 

"! got stuck paying afull year for bringing a car in November. I hate it." 
OFFBEAT 
Whale soul for sale 

LONDON-It used to be a practice confined to pacts with the devil, but now an anonymous ven­dor in America is offering to sell the soul of the London whale. 
The northern bot­tlenosed whale died two weeks ago after swimming up the .River Thames into central London. 
"I was accompanying the poor whale in his last journey, and he handed his soul to me. He asked me to sell it, so I could invest the money raised in other bottle nosed whales," said the seller from Minneapolis, giving the 
TODAY 0:: 
UJ 

!;;: :I: 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
Ill( (.) 


0 

HIGH 31
.... 

LOW 27 

Dan Hackett  Chris Dechiaro  Kyle Reis  Chris Huffer  
sophomore Fisher  sophomore Morrissey  fifth year off-campus  sophomore Morrissey  
"The parking situation is as dirty as his moustache. "  ''I'll park my chopper wherever I want."  "Put it underground and make it robotic."  "It's really far to walk."  


whale the wrong gender. 
The soul seller describes the proud possession as "100 percent soul" and promises to ship it any­where in the world. 

Sailor's bottle message gets angry reply 
NAPEAGUE, N.Y. -A sailor who sent a message out to sea in a bottle says he received a reply from England -accusing him of littering. "I kind of felt like no good deed goes unpunished," Harvey Bennett, 55, told the East Hampton Star. 
The plastic bottle was one of five that Bennett placed in the ocean off 
Long Island in August. 
Last week, he excitedly opened a letter from Engl­and, and was stunned by the reply: 

"I recently found your bottle while taking a sce­nic walk on the beach by Poole Harbour. While you may consider this some profound experiment on the path and speed" of "oceanic currents, I have another name for it, lit­ter." 
"You Americans don't seem to be happy unless you are mucking about somewhere," says the let­ter. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 





HIGH HIGH HIGH LOW LOW LOW 

IN BRIEF 

Robert Campbell, a Pulitzer Prize winner and veteran archi­tecture critic for the Boston Globe, will present a lecture titled "Why Don't the Rest of Us Like the Buildings the Architects Uke?" at 4:30 p.m. today at Bond Hall. 
The student government General Election Debate will take place Thursday at 8 p.m. in the Huddle area of LaFortune Student Center. 
Participants in Speed Dating will have 10 dates in half an hour Thursday at 11 :55 p.m. at Legends. To sign up, e-mailleg­ends@nd.edu by Wednesday. 
The Pasquerilla East Musical Co. will present Footloose at 7:30p.m. Thursday, Friday and Saturday at Washington Hall. Tickets are $5 for students and $7 for adults and can be pur­chased at the LaFortune Box Office. 
Chicago dueling piano group Howl at the Moon will play at Legends at 10 p.m. Friday. 
The Edith Stein Project: Redefining Feminism, a two­day conference on violence against women, will take place Friday from 12-7 p.m. and Saturday 9 a.m.-9 p.m. in McKenna Hall. For complete schedule, go to www.edithstein­project.com 
Award-winning band Carbon Leaf -which has toured with Blues Traveler -will play Saturday at 10 p.m. at Legends. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 


HIGH 31 LOW 23 
Atlanta 43 I 30 Bos~on 41 I ~9 Chicago 36 I .26 Denver 49 I 30 Houston 65 I 39 Los Angeles 77 1 52 Minneapolis 27 1 13 New York 41 I 31 Ph1ladelph1a 42 I 30 Phoemx 78 I 50 Seattle 51 I 37 St. Louis 41 I 26 Tampa 68157 Washington 45130 
Monday, February 6, 2006 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Erotic tradition of scripture vital, speaker says 

By MEGAN O'NEIL Sainr Mary's F.di1or 
Tlw erolie tradition which grew out of' the Song of' Songs in the ll!llm~w Scriptures is an enriching facet of' Christian spirituality despite centuries worth of' argunwnts to the con­trary, said Saint Mary's Aquinas Chair emeritus Keith I·:gan Saturday. 
l•:gan's ledurn, nntill(1(1 "Eros and Friondship" was the first of two given at the College over thn wnnkend as part of the ninth annual Thomas Aquinas Symposium. This year the Symposium also servnd to kick ofT the 60th anniversary cele­bration of' the Saint Mary's reli­gious studies department. 
While orw of the most com­mented on books during the middle agos, the sensual Song of Songs has at times been ignornd as part of' tho Canon in Christian tradition, 1\gari said, or intorprntnd in such a way that dilutes its meaning. 
"Tho erotic din1ct sense of tho text has been allegorized, 
Celebrating the Song of Songs can also hnlp in thn development of a positive the­ology of sexuality, Egan said. 
"What is need is a positivn vision of human sexuality as .sacred and sacramental," he said. "The Song celebrates and delights in the goodness, power, energy, intensity and beauty of the sexual love of tho Song's twosome." 
Ultimately, Egan said, tho principles of eros, friendship and love that have long been presented by scholars at odds with one another are interde­pendent, and should bo brought back together in rec­onciliation. 
"Eros on its own can becoml1 self-indulgent, friendship with­out love is no friendship at all, and a supposed earitas diseon­nectnd from earthly lovo stands in danger of becoming what !scholar Fergus Kerr 1 calls a supernaturalism, that is, a pretended piety that shuns human society," Egan said. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
in other words, given a spiritu­al or mystical meaning," Egan said. "The Jewish tradition has depicted the Song of Songs as a celebration of thn Lord's love for Israel while Christians have seen tho Song as a celebration of' Christ's love 
Songs has influenced the work of many Christians throughout history and, in conjunction with the friendship language of Aquinas, remains relevant today, Egan said. 
"The list of commentators 
and mystical 

for the church or authors who the individual "Friendship without have expressed Christian." love is no friendship their spiritual 
The passionate vision through
at all."
language found the language in tho Song is and symbols of absent from the Keith Egan tho Song roads writings of great Aquinas Chair emeritus like a who's who 
Christian theolo­gians, Egan said, including Thomas Aquinas. Instead Aquinas chose to write about "caritas," which he argued unites one to God in . friendship. 
Many scholars such as Denys Turner and Fergus Kerr believe the erotic mysticism born out of the Song lacks a theological foundation and no longnr has the power to com­municate a message, Egan said. 
Nevertheless, the orotic tra­dition born out of the Song of 
c1t1groupJ ~ corporate and investment banking 
Sales & Trading 
of saintly and 

mystical Christian authors," he said. "Their articulations of' their religious experience in erotic terms is much too important to write off." 
In a society saturated with sex, Egan said, tho power of erotic language such as that found in the Song is at risk. It is necessary, therefore, to retrieve and preserve the tra­dition in order not to loose the wisdom of women mystics such as Teresa of Avila, Therese of Lisieux and Edith Stein. 
"The people I work with are just great. Although they demand a lot from me, they are encouraging and helpful and-most important of all-:good friends and fun to work with." 
CORNELIA GIBRAND, ANALYST FIXED INCOME SALES & TRADING 





meet us... 
Please join us for our Citigroup Sales & Trading Summer Presentation: DATE: Monday, February 6th, 2006 VENUE: Center for Continuing Education Room 202, McKenna Hall TIME: 5:30-7:00pm 
apply online at www.oncampus.citigroup.com 
©2006 Citlgroup Global Markets Inc. Member SIPC. CITIGROUP and the Umbrella Dev1ce are trademarks and service marks of Citigroup Inc. or rts allil1ates and are used and registered throughout the world. C1trgroup Global Markets Inc. and Cit1bank are attiliated companies under the common contr·ol of Crtigroup. Citibank and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. are equal opportunity employers M/F/DN. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 6, 2006 
ChuckD 
continued from page 1 
into vogue," he said. " I spent a lot of time outside this country, and the rest of the world is a beat ahead." 
D, who has traveled to more than 56 countries, said one of the biggest problems with the United States today is "world geography" and said 18 per­cent of Americans do not have a passport. He also said he was surprised by people who told him they "didn't know New Orleans was a black city" after Hurricane Katrina hit. 
"How the hell you gonna lead the world if you don't know where the world is?" he asked. 
D said the "three things that divide the world" are country divi­code of survival, far away from death." 
D compared the strides of racial progress to a wound that still exists today. 
"If the jab of slavery was 3­to-400 years, how long do you think the bleeding's gonna be, or the wound, or the mark?" he said. 
Many blacks who could not stand to live in the South even after the Emancipation Proclamation moved north, D said, following the Mississippi from New Orleans to Memphis to St. Louis to Chicago -and taking their music north with them, including blues and jazz. Those cities became centers for both blacks and music. 
In the 1920s and 30s, race records became hot sellers, but during WWJI no records were made and Jim Crow laws 

sions, language harmed the
"How the hell you 
barriers and race. black communi­
gonna lead the 
"There's one ty. But in the human race," he world ifyou don ,t economic boom said. "Every following the
know what the 
human being has war, black
world is?,
a complex array music, including of issues year to blues with speed year and month to Chuck D and jazz jump month." blues became
rapper
D said especially in America, "celebrity has become a drug ... and people that's do in' real thi~g~,' they ain't gettin' props for 11. 
"When's the last time you saw a black student on TV? 'Different World'," he said. "You're seeing less and less intelligence on TV. [Black stu­dents] get no love from society, [even being] as intellectual as you are striving to be. 
"Hollywood, from the left side, is dictating how you gonna talk, how you gonna dress, how you gonna look. And intelligence ain't even rewarded on the damn cam­pus." 
D cited people judging foot­ball and basketball players as athletes but not students as part of the "disrespect to the black community in this coun­try." 
He also discussed the influ­ence of television on reality, giving the example of rappers showing bravado in videos and movies leading to black stu­dents attempting to look and sound the same when sur­rounded by white students on campus. 
"We have the oxymoron take place -the latter day 
oxymoron of the colle­giate thug," D said. "What the hell's a colle­giate thug? You can't have sewage and a bot­tled water company from the same river." 
D questioned how rap and hip hop music are "being used for all this insanity" in race issues and the image-con­sciousness of the coun­try. He gave a history of race and music that started with slave spiri­tuals and ended with rap music today. 
"These things don't just start up from nowhere," he said. "That's what Black History Month is all about, not just to inform the black people, but [everyone]." 
In the days of slavery -as now -D said black "music and culture was a lifeline." 
"Your music is life, keeping you strong to keep far away from death," he said. "The music is the code of life, 



Pulitzer Prize winner to speak at festival 
Special to The Observer 
Buzz Bissinger, Pulitzer Prize-winning investigative journalist and author of the best-selling novel "Friday Night Lights," will be among the distinguished presenters at the 39th annual Notre Dame Literary Festival, tak­ing place at the University from Feb. 13 to 16. 
Bissinger will wrap up the festival on Feb. 16 with a writing workshop at 4 p.m. in the Foster Room of the LaFortune Student Center and a lecture that evening at 7 in Washington Hall. 
The recipient of a Pulitzer Prize for a series of reports for the Philadelphia Inquirer on that city's court system, Bissinger also has written for such publications as Vanity Fair, the New York Times Magazine and Sports Illustrated. Published in 1990, "Friday Night Lights" was released in 2004 as a major motion picture. 

Joining Bissinger on the festival line-up are novelist and short story writer James Salter, humor and mystery writer Kevin Guilfoile, novel­ist Tasha Alexander, slam poet Saul Williams, and poet/playwright Rane Arroyo. 
popular. In 1952 
Jerry Wexler coined the term rhythm and blues, D said, ushering in a whole new era of music. 
Soon, rhythm and blues radio stations were being broadcast nationwide -and it wasn't just blacks who were listening. 
"You think this music is just going to black people?" D said. "Back then, white kids had to sneak it on." 
D cited Bo Diddley, Little Richard, Chuck Berry, Elvis Presley, Muddy Waters and Fats Domino as "guys [who] built rock and roll." Although the rock movement of The Beatles, Who and Rolling Stones "[started] all the way across the ocean and had to come over here" and the soul of Ray Charles and James Brown led to the "faster, smoother, more polished rhythms" of disco, D said, it all started in the same place ­American black music. 
"[The music] still comes up from that seed of jazz and blues in Congo Square in New Orleans," he said. 
By the time rappers starting using microphones over disco beats, New York City -where D was a student at Adelphi University on Long Island ­had become a breeding ground for rap music, which D said also takes its roots in the music of the South. 


"It's traced all the way back to being a feeling of love," he said. 
With that understanding, D's group Public Enemy used the power of rap music to spread clean messages to kids in the 80s, especially around the time crack was becoming a major epidemic in mainstream America. 
"We did 'Night of the Living Baseheads' and we knew [kids were listening to it]," he said. "[I thought], 'I'm gonna find out if I can use rap music to make drugs look nasty.' For some reason, [rap] was con­necting [kids'] souls together." 
Today, however, D said that while the music is still reach­ing young people of all colors, it is sending a much different message than back in the time when he began rapping. 
"Obviously, something is propped that doesn't need to be propped," he said. "The industry of thugism [banks on] jail and death ... and jail and death is making a lot of money in this country. It costs you a lot of money to get buried, it costs you a lot of money to get locked down. 
. "Rap music is not a culture. It's a subculture coming from the black culture. Culture is to be shared. Culture comes out of the interaction between human beings," he said. "rBlack people need to] not jump down and dance in the trenches that have been made for us. [Rap has] always been a pull-up music." 
D called for a return of "class and dignity" to be brought back to rap music and the shallow American reality-tele­vision culture, and said change needs to begin with students educating themselves and ask­ing questions about the world around them. 
"The real estate of the mil­lennium is people's minds and people's souls," he said. "Do you control what you feel and see or does it control you? Make your decision and be strong behind it. Control your­self, and leave here with your own mind." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 
Donation allo-ws open online course entrance 
Hewlett Foundation focuses on spiritual classes 
Special to The Observer 
The Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning at Notre Dame has received a two-year, $233,000 grant from the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation to sup­port the OpenCourseWare pilot project, which will make the materials for some 30 Notre Dame courses available on the Web, free of charge, to any user in the world begin­ning this fall. 
The project will feature courses devoted to under­standing the spiritual and moral aspects of life, the human condition, the search for meaning and conflict reso­lution, and will align Notre Dame with the OpenCourseWare Consortium, a collaboration of more than 60 institutions worldwide, including Kyoto University, Paris Tech, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Johns Hopkins School of Public Health, and Tufts and Utah State Universities. 
Housed in the Kaneb Center's Learning Technology Lab, the OpenCourseWare project is directed by Terri Bays, a concurrent assistant professor of English and for­merly an associate director in the University's London Undergraduate Program. 
Since 1966, the Hewlett Foundation has been award­ing grants to solve social and environmental problems around the world. Based in Menlo Park, Calif., the foun­dation concentrates its resources on activities related to conflict resolution, educa­tion, environment, performing arts, population, and U.S.­Latin American relations. 
Founded in 1996 and named for Notre Dame alum­nus and benefactor John A. Kaneb, the Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning sup­ports a variety of initiatives designed to stimulate reflec­tion about teaching and learning. 





ORLD &NATION 
Monday, l;ebruary 6, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Nations question next step in Iran 
UNITI-:1> NATIONS -Now that the U.N. atomic~ watrhclog agcmey has agreed to rc11>ort Iran to tho Security Council, diplomats havo vastly difTnrc1nt notions about how the hocly should hn involvnd in nngotiations to make sure Iran is not trying to dnvelop a nudnar wnapon. 
Thn five pnrmannnt council members arn split, with tlw Unilnd Stales, Britain and Franc~c1 hoping to prnssure Iran into backing down with tlw ultimaln thrnal of sanetions. 
llownvnr. China and Hussia do not want to incit11 TPhran and would prnfnr that thn wunc~il play a limitPd roln. The Iranian allies want the International Atomic Energy Agcmcy to knnp the lead in handling Iran. 
Haitians head to polls amid violence 
POHT-AU-PHINCE, llaiti -Stray bullnts whizzing through slums, kidnappings, sufTo­c~ating povnrty and a dying economy ­llailians havn no shortage of things they would like to change about their troubled rountry. 
Tlwy will havn thnir say on Tuesday in long-dnlaynd nlnclions aimed at restoring nlusivn dnmocracy, two years aftnr a bloody revolt oust11d nlected President Jean­Bertrand Aristidn. 
Two otlwr fornwr presidents, a wealthy businnssman and an nx-rebel are among thrtH1 doznn prnsidnntial candidates running in tlw polls, hning hnld under the protection ol" thousands ol" U.N. peacekeepers and polien and dncnned crucial to pulling the country out ol" its cydn of misery. 
"The futuro ol" llaiti is at stake," the top 
U.S. diplomat in llaiti, Tim Carnny, said in an intnrview with The Associated Press. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Stuffed spacesuit transmission lost 
CAPE CANAVEHAL -A spacesuit that was 
tossod out of the international space station 
after being stuffed with old elothes and a 
radio transmitter was again sending weak 
signals as it eireled the globe, ham radio 
o1wrators reportnd Sunday. 
"Death rnports were premature," said Allen Pitts, a spokesman for the Ameriean Badin Hnlay Lnague, a Connectieut-based association for amateur radio opnrators. lie said tho signals were "weak, cold and rnally hard to copy, but alive." 
Tlw suit, dubbed "Ivan lvanovieh," was 
reloasnd from the spaee station Friday, look­
in!{ like a eosmonaul tumbling helplessly 
through spaen. 
NASA mportnd late Friday that the space­suit had enasnd transmitting. 

Spy program deemed unrealistic 
WASIIINGTON -Allornny (~eneral Allwrto Gonzalns' nxplanations so far for the Bush administration's failure to obtain warrants for its dornPslie survPillanee pro­gram arn "strained" and "unrealistic," the Snnatn Judiciary Committee ehairman said Sunday. 
Sen. Arlnn Spnetf1r, whose eommitlnn has sdwdulnd lwarings Monday on the National Snc:urity Agnncy program, said he believes thn administration violated a 1978 law spndfieally callinl{ for a seeretive court to consider and approve such monitoring. 
LOCAL NEWS 

New casino boosts real-estate values 
Flll~NCII I.ICK -Orange County's rivnrboat <~asino IHL'i sparknd a land boom in the southnrn Indiana county <L'i dcwnlopnrs cmgnr to eapilalizn on the r<L'>ino action snap up propnrty. 
"For Sale" and "For Lnase" signs now dol l'rmdJ Lick and adjoining West Badnn Springs, thn small struggling towns that bntween them haw a population ofjusl 2,500. 
In Fnmrh l.ick, wlwrn thn Frnnch Lic:k Springs Hnsorl & Casino is expt1eted to open this I>nc~t11llbnr, honws are snlling fi1r 25 to 30 pnr­cPnlmon1 than just two ynars ago. 
EGYPT 

Only handful more found alive 
Family members wait for news as government fails to release death certificates 
Associated Press  
SAFAGA ­Family mmn­ 
bers of passengers on a  
ferry that sank in the Hed  
Sea protested on Sunday as  
they wailed in vain for news  
of their loved ones, accusing  
E1-,rypt's government of mis­ 
handling the rescue after  
the ship went down with  
more than 1 ,400 people on  
board.  
Only a handful more pas­ 
sengers were pulled from  
the soa, dashing hopes for  
some 1,000 fearnd dead.  
Lawmakers ealled for  
investigations and said the  
ship's owner had been  
rnsponsible for previous dis­ 
asters. Egyptian officials  
said the eaptain was miss­ 
ing, and some survivors  
alleged he had jumped into  
one of the first lifeboats out  
rather than stay with the  
crippled ship.  
Late Sunday, poliee put  
the number of those res­ 
cued at 401 -up from 376  
reported on Saturday and  
an indication that few more  
survivors would be found. It  
was unelear when the addi­ 
tional 25 people had been  
rescund.  
A total of 195 bodies have  
been recovered.  
Among the survivors was  
5-year-old Mohammed  
Ahmed Hassan, kept afloat Friends and relatives crowd In front of a line of pollee to hear the names of survivors  
for more than 20 hours by a of Friday's ferry sinking being read out over a loudspeaker outside the port In Safaga.  
life ring. Doetors said the  
boy was in good condition  slrations in the port 280  president has said should go  about 20 miles from tho  
but apparently had lost his  miles southeast of Cairo,  to the family of each victim.  Saudi shore where it had  
parents, sister and brother.  family members threw  The president said survivors  sailed from, survivors said  
The At-Salaam Boecaccio  stones at poliee.  would eaeh get $2,600.  Sunday. Tho crew deeidnd  
98 was carrying more than  "Where is the president,  Mubarak flew to  to push across the Hnd Soa,  
1 ,400 passengers and ercw  where arc our sons? Where  llurghada, about 40 miles  to try to reaeh Egypt's  
and 220 ears when it quiek­ aro the bodies? We want to  north of Safaga, on  shores 110 miles away.  
ly sank early Friday about  know the fate of the chil­ Saturday and visited sur­ As it burned, many pas­ 
55 miles from the· Egyptian  dren," yelled the protesters,  vivors in two hospitals.  sengers moved to one side  
Bed Sea port of llurghada.  who had boen waiting in the  Television pictures of the  of the 35-year-old ship. An  
Most of the passengers were  aroa for two days.  visit, whieh normally would  explosion was heard, and  
Egyptian workers returning  "If you don't have the  have earried sound of  high winds helpnd topple  
from Saudi Arabia.  bodies, at least give us  Mubarak's conversations,  the unbalanced vessPI.  
Outside the Hcd Sea port  (deathl eertifieates and let  were silcml.  Initial oflilrs of help in the  
in Safaga, where survivors  us go. You have been tortur­ "We pray that God  reseue effort from the  
wore being taken, about  ing us for days," shouted  almighty may eount (the vic­ Unitod States and Britain  
100 l~tmily members shout­ Heshmat Mohammed  tims) among his martyrs,"  were rejeeted, and four  
ed at poliee and eritieized  Hassan, whose brother is  Mubarak said during his  Egyptian ships reached the  
Egyptian President !Iosni  still missing.  visit, in remarks that were  scene only by Friday af"tnr­ 
Mubarak for not providing  The families need death  televised.  noon, about 10 hours af'tnr  
more information. On  ecrtilicates to daim a pay­ Fire broke out in thn ves­ the ferry was bnlinvod to  
Saturday, at similar demon­ mont of $5,200 that the  sel's parking bay as it was  have capsized.  

BEIRUT 
Muhammad caricatures cause riot 
Associated Press 
BEIHUT-Muslim rage over eari­ealures of the prophet Muhammad grew increasingly violent Sunday as thousands of rampaging protesters -undaunted by tear gas and water cannons -torehed the Danish mis­sion and ransacked a Christian neighborhood. At least one person reportedly died and about 200 wern detained, ortieials said. 
Muslim elerics denouneed the vio­lence, with some wading into the mobs trying to stop them. 
Copenhagen ordered Danes to leave the country or stay indoors in the seeond day of atlaeks on its diplo­mati<: outposts in the Middle East. 
In Beirut, a day af'tnr violent protests in neighboring Syria, the thousands-strong erowd broke through a eordon of' troops and police that had encircled the embassy. Sceurity forces tired tear gas and loosed their weapons into the air to stop the onslaught. 
The protesters, armed with stones and stieks, seized fire engines, overturned police vehieles and 
garbage eonlainors for usn as barri­cades, damagod ears and throw stones at a Maronitn Calholie ehurch in tho wealthy Ashraf'ieh area -a Christian neighborhood where the Danish Embassy is loeat­ed. 
Flames and smokn billowPcl from the 10-story building, whi<"h also houses the Austrian Embassy and the residenee of Slovakia's <"onsul. 
Protesters wav!'d green and blaek lslamie flags from tlw hrokm1 win­dows of the building and tosspcJ papers and filing cabinets outsid(1. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 6, 2006 
they want," Laws said. "We the South Bend Center for the Hall. As a high school freshman in Like Laws and Costa, Wells and respect the administration, but Homeless. He is an active mem­Dallas, Texas, he organized a pro­Chamberlain -a Peer Mentor,
Election 
our job is to represent the student  ber of the Student Union Board,  gram in which students fed the  Circle K member and Safe Walker  
continued from page 1  voice." Other ideas for measuring stu­ the Baron administration's com­munications department and  homeless once a week that is still running.  -emphasized the importance of the student voice, vowing to  
Sophomore year, Shappell was  dent opinions include "Stick-it-to­ NDTV.  Martinez has been involved in  involve more members of the stu­ 
the Badin senator and chair of the  Jenkins,"  in  which  life-size  Laws addressed a larger colle­ the Spanish Club and the Pre-Law  dent body in student government  
Senate Gender Issues committee,  posters of University President  giate audience when he appeared  Society and is currently working  and to initiate "open forums" on  
as  well  as  Sophomore Class  Father John Jenkins will be avail­ on MTV's "Next" last week.  to establish a chapter of the St.  any issue students want to dis­ 
Council representative and cam­ able in numerous campus loca­ "Sadly, I didn't find true love,"  Vincent de Paul Club, a Catholic  cuss.  
paign manager for Andrichik,  tions for students to attach Post-it  he said.  service group, on campus. She  They said they see their cam­ 
who was elected Sophomore Class  notes with their comments and  Hyan  Black  and  Catherine  was a high school cheerleader  paign as a duty to the school and  
President.  concerns.  Martinez are one of  and continues to  its students.  
Both Shappell and Andrichik play a variety of interhall sports -"Part of the reason Bill and I  Laws and Costa intend to focus on diversity issues by making the Senate Minority Affairs committee  the two tickets com­posed solely of freshmen. The pair  "A breath offresh air will be great for  have an interest in the sport. "Our fresh per­ ''I've always had an extensive background in service and I feel that's what leadership revolves  
work so well together is we play co-ree football together," Shappell said -and are involved in the  permanent and creating a Black Student Union. The latter will serve as a test case for creating  described their plat­form as focused on four aspects of r.am­ student government. "  spective gives us an advantage over everyone else,"  around," Chamberlain said. "I don't think it's about the poli­tics, I just want to make a differ­ 
spiritual life of their dorms.  similar unions for other groups.  pus life: community  Black said. "[The  ence," Wells said.  
"We're going in there knowing it takes a proactive approach," Shappell said. "There will be issues we won't foresee [to han­ "We want to make sure to include all student groups," Laws said. "Other minorities are also underrepresented."  relations, gender relations, diversity and student affairs. Black and  Ryan Black student body presidential candidate  current student government administration! is one dynasty ... A  The second pair of freshmen candidates, Zahm residents Ryan McCune and Tim Szewczyk, are big on humor but short on practi­ 
dle]."  Their  platform  goals  also  Martinez want to  breath of fresh air  cal ideas.  
Laws, a junior, and sophomore  include creating  a  speaker's  institute an athlete-mentoring  will be great for student govern­ The pair's platform can be sum­ 
Bob Costa have also made com­ bureau of alumni, increasing stu­ prO!,Tfam which would pair varsity  ment."  marizod as "Drinking is awesome,  
munity relations a platform prior­ dent government presence at  athletes with local children.  Sophomore Erica Wells and  and I want to be awesome too,"  
ity. But they focus on  South Bend town  "We want to be the role model,"  freshman George Chamberlain  said Szewczyk, who then contem­ 
the need for student  council meetings,  Martinez said. "We want the  are similar to Black and Martinez  plated the possibility of making a  
government to fully reflect the student voice.  "We're going in there knowing it  and creating stu­dent employment opportunities  adults of the community to know we are looking out for the kids." To counter widely-perceived  in level of involvement -no Notre Dame student government experience, but plenty of campus  neon sign to flash the slogan. They would also like to reno­vatP Hockne Memorial, building a  
"We want to reach all sectors of the stu­dent body who are  takes a proactive approach."  through extending dining hours at North Dining Hall.  problems with gender relations, the pair has proposed an after­parietals lock-in with food and  activities-and scope of idea..<;. The pair stresses multicultural relations ­"it's constantly a topic  Nickelodeon Global Guts-style Agro-Crag. Neither candidate has any  
not involved in the  Laws has exten­ games at a venue like the Joyce  for discussion," Wells said -and  Notre Dame student government  
student government  Lizzi Shappell  sive student gov­ Center.  plans to speak with Director of  expnrionce, but McCune serves as  
dialogue," Costa said. They plan to work  student body presidential candidate  ernment experi­ence, serving as Freshman and  "There are too many forums and discussions," Black said. "We want to take action."  Multicultural Student Programs Iris Outlaw and Director of Cross­Cultural Ministry Chandra  the assistant coach of the Zahm "Fear" interhall hockey team. Szewczyk said he was the  
to gather student  Sophomore Class  Neither candidate has partici­ Johnson to explore possibilities  "assistant to the assistant coach"  
views on academic freedom and  president. He was a varsity fencer  pated in campus-wide student  "to make a tangible difference."  and said, "Take that as you will."  
other  controversial  campus  from his sophomore year through  government to date, but they have  Wells, who works as a  Peer  
issues.  last semester and has also been  been active throughout their  Educator in the Gender Relations  Contact Maddie Hanna and  
"A lot of students feel because  active in the Center for Social  freshman year. Black has been  Center, said improving gender  Karen Langley at  
we're a private university, the  Concerns.  involved in Circle K, interhall  relations would be a focus of her  mhannal@nd.edu and  
administration can do whatever  Costa volunteers regularly at  hockey and dorm life in Knott  and Chamberlain's campaign.  klanglel @nd.edu  


Paper 
continued from page 1 
Enviroshred, a private recycling company, empties the recycling bins daily, then shreds and recy­cles it, Hausmann said. 
Junior Dana Christiano said she finds the printers in comput­er labs convenient when she is writing papers or printing off articles for classes on Blackboard. 
"I am happy that the College has provided these printing services," she said. "It is.nec­
essary for th~ "/ use what I print, is busy, a ·docu­learning process to but when I'm done ment may have to be able to print off wait in the print
I'll recycle it." 

articles." queue behind oth­
Hausmann said a ers that are first in significant cause of Katie Marr line to be printed paper waste is due junior -and some stu­
to PowerPoint slides, which can run up to 60 slides per lecture. According to Hausmann, stu­dents commonly print one slide per page by default. 
"Because students don't want to put PowerPoint notes with one slide per page into their class binders, they'll print out the slides again as more manageable handouts with three slides per page," Hausmann said. "The unwanted printout of the slides goes into the recycling bin." · 
Many students defend their on­campus paper usage. 
Junior Katie Marr said she uses campus printers "usually once a week" when she needs to print out documents for class ­including PowerPoint slides ­but is careful in her printing habits. 
"I use what I print, but when I'm done I'll recycle it," Marr said. "I hate it when [students]. print things that they don't need, or print multiple copies." 
Junior Hosemary Walsh said she only uses the printers on campus occasionally, and only in Trumper, the 24-hour student computer lounge located in the basement of the library. 
"[When] I do print, it's not like I waste paper and just print every­thing," Walsh said. "I always use multiple slides per page." 
According to Hausmann, "lack of patience is another complica­tion adding to paper waste." 
Students will print out an item, rush to the printer, not see their printout and go back to the com­puter to print out another copy, Hausmann said. 
According to Hausmann, docu­ments printed in Trumper can be 
sent to one of sev­
eral difterent print­
ers. When the area 

dents, not seeing 
immediate results, impatiently print the same thing several times. 
"Printing multiple copies will not make a document [print] faster, but when multiple copies are printed to get a single copy, the extras end up in the recycling bin," Hausmann said. 
especially] double-sided whenev­
er possible," Hausmann said. · One alternative to limiting the 
use and waste of paper on cam­
pus is to hold students responsi­
ble for what they print. IT is con­
sidering charging for printing on 
campus. 
"We are testing a print accounting solution now, and hope to have a trial of the system in place after spring break," Hausmann said. "The trial will not charge students for printing, but let them see how many pages they are printing." 
Hausmann said IT is also look­ing into implementing a quota system that would provide stu­dents with a number of free printed pages before they are charged for printing. The quota and price per page have not been deeided. 
Some students said they would not be pleased if the College decided to implement a charge for printing. 
"Personally I would be [angry] if !the College] charged us because things are expensive enough here as it is," Pinter said. 
Christiano said it would be unfair for students to be charged to print documents when tuition 
costs so much 
already. 

Freshman "It is necessary for "I am against being Nicole Pinter charged for using the 
the learning 
said she prints printer, because 
process to be able 
multiple copies many classes require for several rea­to print off us to print off lengthy sons -if she articles from
articles." 
notices an error Blackboard and the after reading Internet," she said. through her doc­Dana Christiano Walsh said she ument, "if I have junior thinks the problem 
absolutely no change on me ... or if my [personal] printer is out of ink." 
Hausmann said efforts to edu­cate students as to how to con­serve paper have made only a small dent in decreasing paper usage. 
"[Students are encouraged] to print documents [class notes, drafts of papers and e-mails, lies mainly with indi­
vidual students over­using printers and taking paper for personal use. 
"There's always going to be someone !who's] going to try to cheat the system," she said. "I don't think that overall people abuse it." 
Contact Lisa Gallagher at lgallaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

KELLY HIGGINS!The Observer Saint Mary's sophomore Jana Blake views pages from the Writing Center printer in LeMans Hall Thursday. 

Stz~le'ne (Sizzlelini®) ­On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95! 
A sizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B;;,-}efie (Bellini)­
A frosty raspberry, green apple or peach Italian work of art for $2! 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­
Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelint Bellini Tuesdays! 
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Monday, February 6, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
10,793.62 -19.60

}ones 
Up: Some: Down: Composite Volume: 
988 140 2,304 2,613, 703,610 

AMEX 1.850.16 ~0.50 NASDAQ 3,111.05 -0.74 NVSE. ~.001.40 -36.60 S&P500 I ,264.03 -6.81 NIKK£1(Tokyo) 16,659.64 0.00 FTSE IOO(l.ondon) 5,759.30 +12.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ II 0 TR (QQQQ) -1.23 -0.5 I 40.92 INTEL CP (INTC) -I.71 -0.36 20.74 SIRIUS SATELLITE (SIRI) -3.79 -0.21 5.33 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.51 -0.14 27.54 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -1.20 -0.22 18.15 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE -0.61 -0.28 45.33 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.00 43.62 30-YEAR BOND -1.21 -0.57 46.38 5-YEAR NOTE -0.16 -0.07 44.95 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.69 65.37 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -5.20 576.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +3.00 73.83 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
118.9300 EURO 
0.8319 POUND 

0.5675 CANADIAN$ I 144~ 
IN BRIEF 
Unemployment drops to year low 
WASIIINGTON -Tho nation's unemploy­ment ratn dropped to a 4 1/2-year low as busi­nnssns cranked up hiring in January. an tmeouraging sign that the economy started the year on the right foot. 
Thn latest jobs picture, provided by the Labor Dnpartment on Friday, suggested that companies are feeling better about the econo­my's prospects as well as their own and thus arn more inclined to hire. Good weather in parts of tho country also hnlpnd, especially for construction work. 
Tho unemployment rate dropped from 4.9 percent to 4.7 perennt, the lowest since July 2001. 
For blacks. the rate fell to 8.9 percent. the bnst since Snptember 2001. The unemploy­nwnt rate for I lis panics dipped to a live-month low of 5.8 pernmt 
Merger causes ballpark renaming 
SAN FHANCISCO -The San Francisco Ciants' ballpark is changing its name to AT&T Park bnginning in March, elub officials said Friday. 
The namn changn -tho second sinen the ballpark opened in 2000-follows SBC Communications Inc.'s acquisition of AT&T Corp. in November. San Antonio-based SBC dumged its name to AT&T after the merger. 
Giants o!Tieials said the park would offer wirt~lnss AT&T Internet service throughout the stadium. All park signs would likely be changed by midsummer. 
Bush appointment fills empty seat 
WASHINGTON -President Bush chose tnloeornrnunkations attorney and lobbyist Robert Md )owe II on Friday to take an open seat at the Fodera( Cornmunieations Commission, a move that would rnstore the ageney's :{-2 GOP m1\jority. 
Md>owell currently serves a<; senior viee prnsi­dnnt and IL'lsistant general eounsd at CompTe(, a tradn organization representing phone carriers that compete with the rngional Bell companies­Verizon, BeiiSouth. Qwest and AT&'[ 
Tlw Senatt~ would have to eonlirm the nomina­tion. 
MEXICO 
Cuba invites U.S. investments 
Officials ask corporations to lobby against trade ernbargo and invest in energy sector 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY -Cuban officials invited U.S. cor­porations Friday to lobby against the U.S. trade embargo and invest in the communist nation's energy sector, as they announced plans to double thli~ir drilling eapaeity and explore for oil in the island's Caribbean waters. 
In the first private-see­tor oil summit between the two countries, execu­tives from U.S. giants like ExxonMobil Corp., Caterpillar Inc. and Valero Energy Corp. were meet­ing with Cuban govern­ment ol'l'icials in Mexico City this week to learn about Cuba's potentially lucrative oil reserves. 
"We would be happy if North Ameriean compa­nies also participated in future projeets," said Haul Perez de Prado, Cuba's vice minister of basic industry. 
U.S. executives should work to "eliminate the absurd barriers" that limit investment. Perez de Prado said, referring to the 45-year-old U.S. trade embargo designed to und1~rmine Fidel Castro's communist government. 
In the two years since petroleum deposits were found off its coast, Cuba has inked exploration government passed a law Cuban people and free eonsidered eommerdally deals with Canadian, allowing food and agricul­them from the sanctions viable, but the discovery Chinese, Indian and tural exports to Cuba on a imposed on them by their of reserves fueled the gov­Norwegian firms. cash basis. Cuba says it own regime." ernment's hopes of 
But U.S. corporations, has since purchased $1.5 ExxonMobil Ventures becoming more self-surli­their hands tied by the billion in American food. Mexico Ltd. President Joe eient amid tightened U.S. embargo, have been Judith Bryan, spokes­Newhart said the three­sanetions. forced to watch the flurry woman for the U.S. day meeting was his com­The island nation has of activity taking place embassy in Mexico City, pany's first chance to meet since invested $1.7 billion less than 60 miles off the however, said the United Cuban energy authorities, into its energy sector with coast of Florida. States is studying tighten­and called it an "opportu­help from Canada, Europe 
This week's gathering ing its embargo against nity to see what goes on in and Latin Ameriea. could be "a watershed Cuba even more. Cuba firsthand." Juan A. Fleitas. gmwralmoment" that ushers in a "There's nothing illegal Benjamin-Alvarado said director of oil monopoly change in U.S. policy, said about a meeting here in working with Cuba would CUPET SA, said Cuba Jonathan Benjamin­Mexico," she said. "But we offer U.S. oil companies a plans to revamp its energy Alvarado, a political scien­would like to remind par­host of opportunities, from sector in the next few tist at the University of ticipants that the U.S. gov­building refineries to stor­years, ineluding doubling Nebraska, Omaha, who ernment is not only con­ing oil if a hurricane its drilling capacity and studies the Cuban energy tinuing the existing sanc­should wipe out supplies exploring its 59 deep­sector. tions but is studying the in Houston, for example. water blocks. 
One year after Cuban strengthening of the sanc­Cuba's first well -Foreign companies have and U.S. agricultural offi­tions." found in 2004 by Spanish agreed to explore 10 cials held similar meetings She added: "Our main petrochemical eompany blocks so far, and six oth­in Mexico in 1999, the U.S. goal is to reaeh out to the Repsol-YPF -was not ers are under negotiation. 



State business contract taking bids 
Associated Press the contract as Accenture, CGI-AMS fishing a "Buy Indiana" program 
INDIANAPOLIS -The companies and Internation-al Business under which state ageneins arn considered most likely to seek the Machines Corp. required to spend 90 pereent of' state's $1 billion contract to deter­Accenture LLP is the Chicago­their eontraet money on Indiana mine who's eligible for food stamps based U.S. subsidiary of business businesses. and other federal benefits all are consultant Accenture Ltd., whose l)anlels defended his administra­based outside Indiana despite Gov. headquarters are in the Bahamas. tion's outsoureing policies during a Mitch Daniels' directive to steer CGI-AMS is a subsidiary of meeting with reporters on Friday, more state business toward Hoosier Montreal-based information tech­less than two weeks af'ter announc­companies. nology services provider CGI Group ing that under his "Major Moves" 
Jim Hobertson, director of the Inc. IBM's headquarters are in highway plan, an Australian­Division of' Family Hesources in the Armonk, N.Y. Spanish consortium would pay the Family and Social Services Within minutes of being sworn state $3.X5 billion to lease the Administration, identified the three into office last year, Daniels had Indiana Toll Hoad and keeping its top companies expected to bid on signed an executive order estab-toll revenues for 75 years. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, February 6, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Brokeback country 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PIIOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 63I-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 63 I-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsmc@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 63I-5323 obsncws.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 63 I-5303 viewpoint. I @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.l @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe Universiry ofNotre Dame duLac and SaintM:uy's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conract information. 
Qzmtiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday thn,ugh Friday except during -cx:atn and vacation periods. A subscription !O The ObSCitvct is $100 for one ~emic ye;tr; $55 for one semester. 
TI1c Obstrver is publi~hcd-;u: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send addres5 correcrions to: None Dame. IN 46556-0779 "the Observer Pcriodic.:~l postage paid at None Dame P.O. Bc:1x 779 and addilional mailing offices. 02-t Sou£h Dining Hall 
Nmre Dame, IN 46556-0779 

TI1e Ob~et"Vet 1$ a member of the Asso.ciatcd "Ptit.!i~. All reprod.uetlon righu .al'e tCSCt\lc:d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Graphics Nicole Zook Graham Ebetsch Karen Langley Sports Laura Matt Puglisi Baumgartner Jack Thornton Viewpoint Tim Dougherty Margie Scene Rosmonowski Molly Griffin 
During a recent address at Kansas State University in which President George W. Bush offered audience mem­bers the rare opportunity to ask him questions that had not been scripted in advance by his public image Gestapo, one individual jokingly (or perhaps boldly) inquired as to whether or not the president had seen the film "Brokeback Mountain." 
"I haven't seen it," 

Joey

Bush responded with 
Falco 

a grin that sent waves of laughter rolling throughout the audi-Forty Ounces torium. ''I'd be glad to talk about ranching, but I haven't seen the movie." 
The fact is, the president was probably lucky that he hadn't seen Ang Lee's Oscar-nominated western that brought a whole new meaning to the phrase "ride 'em, cowboy." After all, the over-politi­cization of American life has reached such a sickening level that even ·one of our most cherished national pastimes ­the motion picture industry -has become a political hotbed rife with oppor­tunities for Democrats and Hepublicans to tear at each other's throats. 
For instance, conversations about "Brokeback Mountain" (which, as every­one knows, depicts the tragic love affair between two cowboys) have become so taboo and politicized that a true debate over the merits of the film itself is down­right impossible. Most socially conserva­tive Republicans would not even step into a theater to see it because of the thought that America's manliest profession could be "homosexualized" by the likes of Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal. Most liberal Democrats, on the other hand, have been raving nonstop about its open­minded brilliance and envelope-pushing edginess-even if they have never even seen the movie. 
If you love the movie, you're a "gay­lover." If you hate it, you're a homophobe. 
Ironically, this movie that was supposed to be mind-opening has only proven how close-minded and judgmental Americans can be (on both sides of the political spec­trum). 
To be honest, I thought that "Brokeback Mountain" was one of the most boring, tedious, cheesy films I have seen all year. The love story, while unconventional and at times awkwardly hilarious, seemed forced and unrealistic, and the dialogue made George Lucas sound like Charlie Kaufman. 
Nevertheless, posting this opinion on a liberal blog or newspaper message board like the Daily Kos or the Village Voice would have probably resulted in my being labeled a backstabbing, Bush-lov­ing bigot with as much party loyalty as Joe Lieberman. · But that's the reality of political life in modern America. It's as if everywhere you go and everything you do -grocery shopping, church-going, football playing, movie watching -someone is reading you your political Miranda rights and "anything that you say can and will be used against you" in the public forum. Even worse, the possibilities for modera­tion and personal decision in life -such as being a practicing Catholic who sup­ports a woman's right to choose or per­haps hating "Brokeback Mountain" while supporting policies like the legalization of gay marriage-are all but nonexistent. After all, that would involve conciliation, free thought, personal decision, and, worst of all, flip-flopping. 
As a result of this depressing and stressful situation, even a simple trip to the movies has become a metaphoric vote for Democrat or Republican. Case in point: The five films nominated for Best Picture at this year's Academy Awards are all in some way politically motivated and in most cases expressions of liberal political thought. "Brokeback Mountain," as already discussed, is a clear outcry for social tolerance ofhomosexuality. "Capote," a biographical tale of the flam­boyant author Truman Capote, also dab­bles into the subject of homosexuality in middle America. "Crash," which in my opinion blows its four other competitors out of the water, is a brilliantly weaved story of racial tension and intolerance in one of America's most diverse cities ­Los Angeles. Stephen Spielberg's annual contribution to the awards, "Munich," is a dramati~depiction of the violent after­math of the murder of 11 Israeli athletes at the 1972 Olympics. Finally, "Good Night, and Good Luck," the story of jour­nalist Edward R. Murrow's bold challenge to McCarthyism during the Hed Scare, was deliberately written by George Clooney to encourage the media to "ask tough questions of anyone in power." 
And there you have it: the gay vote, the minority vote, the Jewish vote, and the "liberal media" vote. No matter who wins the Oscar at this year's ceremony, the · Democratic Party will certainly come out on top. (If only our presidential candi­dates could have this kind of success rate.) 
Beyond a n~iteration of the cliche that Hollywood preaches to the liberal choir, though, this politicization of the film industry and one of our most cherished forms of mindless entertainment is only something that will further divide an America that is already starting to resem­ble a blue Orno stuiTed with way too much red cream. As George Washington warned in his legendary farewell address, "The alternate domination of one faction over another, sharpened by the spirit of revenge, natural to party dis­sension ... is in itself a frightful despot­ism." 
And the first step toward ending this factionalized despotism? Nominating a film for Best Picture that all of America can appreciate and enjoy -like "Walk the Line." 
Or, at the very least, "Miss Congeniality 
2: Armed and Fabulous." 
Joey Falco is a junior American Studies major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be contacted at jfalco@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
'Monologues' provide rape education 
Restricting academic freedom puts Notre Dame's students at a disadvan­tage. Students do not choose to attend a Catholic institution in hopes of being sheltered from the secular world. Rather, these institutions are chosen in hopes of making sense of the outside world with the help of a Catholic view­point. By restricting and removing con­troversial elements from Notre Dame, the University misses an opportunity to address many of the issues important to Catholics today. 
By omitting the fundraising element from "The Vagina Monologues," the University is not simply making a state­ment about the forbidden acts of mas­turbation and homosexuality, but also about its disregard for sexual violence against women. The entire premise of the "Vagina Monologues" is to end the oppression of women's sexuality and 

OBSERVER POLL 
Are you planning to attend the Queer Film Festival? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
violence against women. Not including these materials in an academic setting sends the message to students that the excluded information is of no impor­tance. It is highly disappointing to me that Notre Dame is sending a message of violence and intolerance to its stu" dents. As a woman in the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community, that not only upsets me, but also makes me afraid. 
In a society where rape is often times still considered the woman's fault, it is discouraging to have Father John Jenkins question the play's morality. Male students at Notre Dame have sex­ually assaulted many female students at both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, and instead of giving these women back their dignity, the University is on a track that continues to take it away. By elimi­nating the donations that would be 
.f s··'·' h' ~'t L' tt h
!I 'U,•; i ' i a, ~ Qr~ ~
··IDJ! 

~ io'th@.Edif~r ~t j 

www.nds,mcobserye,r.com 1 ) 
given to local women's shelters, Notre Dame is adding to ignorance while simultaneously hurting the organiza­tions that aid abused women, including some of its own students. Hape is not a women's issue; it is society's issue. It is the responsibility of everyone to edu­cate and demonstrate that rape and sexual assault are wrong. One required lecture during Freshman Orientation is not enough. There is more to "The Vagina Monologues" than masturbation. Giving a voice to the abused and oppressed is a part of Catholic teaching, and it's a shame that Notre Dame is not following this example. 
Megan Osberger junior Le Mans Hall Saint Mary's Feb. 4 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Iron rusts from disuse, stagnant water loses its purity, and in cold weather becomes frozen; even so does inaction sap the vigors ofthe mind." 
Leonardo da VInci painter, sculptor, architect 


THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Monday, February 6, 2006 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Zahm apologizes for disrespectful behavior 
To Our Notre Dame Family, 
We arc NI>. Wn chant it over and over again at everything from football pop rallies to late night eolf~brations. We w<~ar it proudly on dass shirts and we sign our dass o-mails with it. Simply put. this phrasn nneompasses everything about who we are and what we stand for-our faith, our solidarity, our spirit -our commitment to tho values and imago of Our Lady's University. 
You son us all around campus making noise and wearing rod. We aro Zahm II all-or "!louse" as some of us like to call it. And despite our love and eommit­mont to and as a part of the Notre Dame Family, we have taken it upon ourselves to call attention to a group that dissents from that family. It's time to set the record straight. 
We are an extrmnely proud dorm. We are proud of our history, our beautiful homo. our sports teams, our spirit, our cornrnitmnnt to works of charity and our involvement in community programs. The look on someone's face when they learn we're from Zahm, or the stares we get at pep rallies and sporting events are proof that, love us or hate us, we're completely different from any other dorm on campus in a very special way. 
Recently, some of the men of Zahm have come to realize that all of these things that we're proud or don't matter at all in light of what our reputation has become. It doesn't matter how many activities we participate in or how well we do in competitions. What matters is our biggest cause for pride, our reputa­tion, has slowly dign~ssed into a cause for other dorms to hate us and ridicule us and for this wonderful University to look down on us and discipline us. While the damage has come at the hands of the minority of our residents, we recog­nize that the majority of the dorm has done little to stop it. As a dorm we have talked about ways to re-establish the position we earned as one of the best dorms at Notre Dame, and it begins with an apology. 
Here and now, we the men of Zahm Hall, as students at the University of Notre Dame and members of the Notre Dame Family, want to express our deep­est apologies for our continued disre­spectful bnhavior. We're sorry for giving you all the reasons you need to hate Zahm. We truly value your respect and friendship, but also realize they must be earned. From this point on, we will do just that. 
We've decided as a dorm to move for­ward in a positive way. We'll still be the craziest dorm on campus. We'll still put 110 percent into every event that we're involved in. Essentially, we'll still do everything that makes us Zahm llall. The only thing that will change is our disrespect for the amazing opportunities that Notrn Dame has given us and oth­ers who are lucky enough to call them­selves Domers. As we move forward in becoming who we should be as a dorm community, we ask that you support us in our mission to rejoin the Notre Damn Family in nvery aspect. 
Here at Notre Dame, we are among the b<~st students from around the world. We have so much pride in who we are, what we stand for, and what W<~ accomplish. Zahm II all is just one small part of what makes Notrn Damn groat, and we are committed to strnngthnning our relationship with tho Notre Dame Family from this day forward. So when you hear us yelling "We.are Zahm Hall," know that deep inside all or our hearts that phrase echoes with "We are ND," and we hope that it edwes in yours as well. 
Yours in Notrn Dame, 
The Men of Zahm Hall 
Fd>. '.i 

While I could comment on the proper applkation of truth and academic frnn­dorn involv<~d in Father John Jenkins' limiting of "Tiw Vagina Monologues" on mmpus, I wish to focus upon why I bdieve that the "Monologues" is compati­hln rwither with the Catholic faith nor with iL-; organizers' own goals. A-; Jenkins stated in his speech to students, there are plnnty of noble objectives underlying the V-J>ay movement. These indude the elim­ination of violen1:e against women and upholding the value of womanhood and fmnale sexuality. A-; h<L'l been stated, I think all sides ean a1,rree that the preemi­rwnt goals of stopping violence against women and helping vktimized women to hnal nend to be taken seriously and strongly promotnd. The Catholic stance is overwhelmingly in litvor of this agenda. 
llownver, thn means by which the "Monologues" attmnpt.s to achieve these goals sufli1rs from an incredibly danger­<HJS flaw-it holps to fwd and perpetuate a masculine view of women as sexual ohjncL-; rather than <L'l dignified persons to bn nqually mspected and protected. It dons so by portraying the female per­limners predsely as sexual things whose personhood ean bn equated with their vagina-;. I understand that many women li~nl that the play is a form of art that mmblns a cathartic emotional release on tim part of women who have been victim­ized and need to find a sense of security and community. Nonetheless, the manner in whkh this is achieved only serves to nntnmch partidpanl-; even further within It culture of sexual commodity. 
Why do you suppose so many men attend the "Monologues'?" None of them, I would imaJ.,rinn, are seeking the healing from the play that many female viewers desire to reeeivn. And I would wager that a relatively small number of the men attm1d solnly out of deep feelings of mnpathy lhr the plight of victimized women. Hathnr. I am willing to assnrt­and phmty of my male friends agree­that many, many guys arn attracted to tho "Monologues" li1r iL-; patently risque nature. The play may not be intended a-; pornographi<: or hot<~roorotie, but a voynuristic male nwntality can bn arous1~d by even tho most innoeent or artisti<: immmli~sty, not to mention J.,rraph­k sexual descriptions and dnpictions. 
Tlw women assodatnd with the "Monologues" havn to understand that Llw wntlmt of thn play eaters to the ba-;n sexual pm;sions of malo viewers, and so 
'Monologues' not compatible with goals 
Libertarian confusion 
Although I have very much enjoyed read­ing the recent string of Notre Dame Libertarian viewpoinl<; and letters, I feel that each of these writings ha-; consistently misrepresented libertarianism in some way. 
For example, the most recent letter to the editor, sponsored by the group itself, con­fuses political libertarianism with personal preference. The article begins with an accurate explanation that Notre Dame can "censor" all that it wants as a private prop­erty owner. This is where libertarian politi­cal doctrine stops. Its purpose is to empha­size self-government, so that any individual can censor or not censor to their heart's desire. 
However, the letter devolves into a advo­cating a fairly subjective social opinion that Notre Dame should allow all kinds of expression, no matter the type. This state­ment is woeful because of two glaring prob­lems. First, it has nothing to do with politi­callibertarianism and thus the "Libertarian" group on campus is wrongly identifying a social opinion with the political party. This will only confuse those unfamil­iar with libertarianism and will drive away good moral pnople who believe in certain kinds of"censorship." 
Second, and perhaps even more impor­tantly, the letter is attacking a straw man. Notre Dame is not censoring anything. The 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
only en~ouragns us to think of women as sexual toys. I'm sure nearly all male viewers on campus are opposed to vio­lence against women, but the play does not offer us an outlet whereby we can begin to treat women as they are ­equally intelligent human persons with graceful souls and beautiful bodies that must be honored and cherished. Even if only women were involved in the produc­tion and viewing of the "Monologues," they would be damaging their own strug­gle to gain a dignified image in society. This is because the play teaches women to think and act in such a manner that will cause men to believe that women really want to be perceived merely as attractive flesh defined by sexual experi­lmces. 
For these reasons, the Monologues do not offer true freedom to women; instead, women are unwittingly enslaving them­selves to the oversexed and self-gratifying culture that urges men to shun the responsibility and commitment that women so earnestly desire from them. 
Therefore, many of us at the University of Notre Dame will not endorse the "Monologues." But we are are still more than willing to lend our efforts in stopping violence against women from a Catholic approach. Uke Christ, the Church is countereultural-"a sign that will be contradicted" (Lk 2:34) by the world in all ages. It is relatively unpopular and ineonvenient to live out Catholicism today, but the Church's teaching on human per­sons has the good and truth of the body and interpersonal relationships in mind. 
Female persons should never be deni­~-,rrated as trivial possessions to be used, but this will become a reality only if we promote a model imploring men to respect and be thankful for "women as they have come forth from the heart of God, in all the b1~auty and richness of their femininity" {John Paul II). And the hmtling of wronged women will be most fulfilling if they arn treated with the rev­enmtial deference that femininity deserves. 
The Church tries to say to each woman, "You are not merely a body that needs to bn liberated, but a c:omplete person who must be loved." llopnfully, both sides can and will work tognthcr to advaneo this li~minine model on campus. 
Brian MacMichael 
graduate student 
Feb. 2 

studenL-; can limn any number of groups (unollieial or not), wear any shirt they want (barring extreme ollimsivonoss or lewd­ness), study any kind of play no matter how libertine, and even perli1rm that play for the purposes of study and rellm:tion. They are only denied the aiTirmativo use of University sponsorship through the grant of il<; facilities when the University disap­proves of the subject matter. Even this is qualifiod, since Notre Damn really just wants to limit such activities from being open to the public through il-; own faeilitins. It would bn morally and intnllndually dis­honest if the administration sponsored groups or activities that it truly felt worn harmful to Catholieism or Christianity. This is no dillernnt from me refusing to allow studelll'> to perform the Vagina Monologues in my home. Criticism that thn University should ehange il-; decision making appara­tus is of course valid, but should be well­reasoned and avoid misdirnd1~d platitudes about censorship and frne-spnneh. 
This second point seems to be lost on far too many studenl'l. I have to wonder if they even read Father John Jenkins' spnneh, which covers the issuo quit1~ thoroughly. 
Steve Torello gradt~uc student 
Feb. 3 



THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 Monday, February 6, 2006 
Call of Duty 2 
The "Call of Duty" franchise has established itself as one of the premier World War II first person shooters on the market, which is no easy task in that crowded market. "Call of Duty 2" had many expectations placed upon it before it was released, and while not as fresh as the original, it is one really one of the first WW II games to give that feeling like the bullets are flying by and the enemy is close at hand. 
Graphically the game is up there with best of the launch titles. Buildings crumble and tanks lurch thru t.he snow or desert in the game's many diverse campaign locations in a pleasing way. There is the feeling that no game at this point has really tapped into what the Xbox 360 has to offer. The level design is fairly wide and open and there never is the sense that the character is following some sort of narrow path. 
Where this game really shines however, is when the A.l. Enemies duck and cover, fall back when the odds are against them or surge forward when they see a decisive advantage. 
The members of the accompanying squad are also fairly intelligent. Most of the time they are more than just vacant polygons, as they communicate enemy position, curses, taunts and orders. 
Out of all the games that are available for the Xbox 360, "Call of Duty 2" is probably the best of the launch lot, at least in terms of consistency. 
Overall rating: A-
Perfect Dark Zero 
With almost six years having past since the original Nintendo 64 hit and spiritual successor to "Goldeneye," one would think that developer Rare would have a polished killer­app on their hands. Unfortunately, "Perfect Dark Zero" is not that killer-app that the Xbox 360 needs. 
ln.terms of story, the game takes place prior to the original game. It fails to engage or have relevance, and the cheesy dia­logue and poor voice acting in cut-scenes leaves much to be desired. 
The single player campaign is marred by the awful level design. However, the developers seem to have been aware of this fact. After wandering around aimlessly on the same level, even on harder difficulty levels, the game plots a big trail of flashing blue lines and arrows on the ground to lead to the final destination. 
The graphics are a mixed-bag at times. The images shine, literally, and the game has a plastic sheen to it that takes some getting used to. There are also frame rate issues, mak­ing the game run at only 30 FPS most of the time. The charac­ter design is at times cartoonish as well. 
Multiplayer for the large part is where feel the game redeems itself. Its laundry-list of features is longer and better than "Halo 2." Online, the game includes currently up 32 players to each game and the much touted online Co-op did make the cut. Strangely enough, enemy A.I. is much more competent and stealthy than in single-player. 
Playing the Dark Ops and various multiplayer options online and offiine really has that old "Goldeneye"/ "Perfect Dark" feeling well. 
Overall, it is a solid if not above average first person shoot­er, but it could have been so much more of a complete and eonsistent experience. 
Overall rating: B+ 
STORIES B y MARK B E M E N 

The future is here. At least, that is what Microsoft would lead garners to believe. On Nov. 22, they released the latest generation of video game consoles, the Xbox 360. 
Released to some fanfare, the sys­tem sold out almost immediately at most retailers. For a while, the only way to purchase the system was over online auctions, with prices reaching upwards of a thousand dollars. Certainly a great degree of hype led to this system frenzy. But now that the initial rush has passed, many questions as to the system's merits are rising. 
From a technology standpoint, the 360 doesn't represent the leap that was evident in the previous console generations. Like the previous Xbox, it comes with a dual-layer DVD player. While an effective vehicle for data storage at this time, games are quickly becoming larger, multi-mil­lion dollar enterprises. More recent technologies, such as Blu-Ray disks, would have been a better choice. 
As it is, many games will either have to span multiple disks, or make extensive use of the hard-drive. However, the hard-drive only comes with the more expensive bundle at this point in time. 
Releasing two different bundles in this fashion may prove to be a mis­take on Microsoft's part. Despite the fact that the lesser of the bundles is more economically feasible, it's a poor choice in the long run for most garners. Some games require the hard-drive to function, and the demos obtainable over Xbox Live won't work without it. 
Like the PlayStation 2, the 360 is backwards compatible, meaning that it will play games from the orig­inal Xbox. However, the compatibili­ty is limited, and only works with a limited library of games. It also requires the hard-drive, and access to Live to download the necessary patches to run properly. 
Graphically, the system does rep­resent a leap over the current gen­eration of games. Multi-platform games, such as "Peter Jaekon's King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie" and "Gun," are noticeably improved on the Xbox 360. The graphics are sharper, with less obvi­ous slowdown during the hardware intensive moments. 

The graphics don't seem to be a major leap however. Some games, such as "Doom III" and "Hesident Evil 4," don't seem that far ofT from the games showcased on the 360. Computer gaming has been operat­ing at the same level of the 360 for some time now as well, with exam­ples being "Half-Life 2" and "F.E.A.R." 
When the Nintendo 64 was released, and the Dreamcast in the following generation, there was an obvious leap in content and abilities. The leap isn't quite as sharp this time around. 
That doesn't seem to be Microsoft's focus however. With the 360, their focus has been heavily placed upon online gaming. There are two different methods of getting online for garners. There is the Silver Membership, which allows garners to get online for free, but they are unable to aceess most of the features available. 
Most garners will find the Gold Membership to be a better choice. Despite costing more, online garners can download demos of future games for free, play online only games and join in on more of the Live community features. Players can customize their profile as they want, and Live is much more versa­tile in its 360 incarnation. 
Microsoft is also placing a lot more emphasis on a personalized gaming experience that extends beyond the Live community. The 360 has an interchangeable face­plate that can be customized in a variety of ways. 

The controller was left relatively untouched from its previous itera­tion. Microsoft kept the format of the Controller S, the smaller of the two first-party controllers. This helps keep garners from being alien­ated by a new control scheme, and lowers the learning curve. 
It should be noted that, like the first release of every console system so far, the 360 release was ham­pered by a number of defective units. A number of units suffered from freezing issues, or they would simply stop working outright. A number of complaints arose from disk scratching issues. The limited supply of 360's meant that most people who purchased one would have to wait a significant amount of time for a replacement. Some peo-

~M.ovember 15, 2001 ~The Xbox is released .tt6mestically, and 
instantly sells out. ft''·'c" .:..:. ::<: 

;;,Halqfbecomes the stest next-generation Halo 1 and 2. le··to sell 1 million unit! 
,,·'n 
Photo courtesy of www.gamespot.com 

"Condemned: Criminal Origins" is a spooky, atmospheric game that follows an FBI agent's search for a serial killer. The game features a host of realistic settings and an unusual array of weapons. 

) E R F E R A N 0 GARY H 0 T 

u 


In who purchased a systmn in thn 
1it.ial batch am still waiting. Also. tho :H,o can either be playnd ith it standing vertically, or lying 
orizontally. llowovor, some gamors wught that this moant that thoy ould shill tlw system whilo it was unning. Tlw same thing was wught of tho PS2 upon its rolease. 'his is gmwrally a bad idoa howev­r, as moving eithor system will cratch tlw disk, so most of the disk­cratching incidents eould have een avoided. 
l>nspit1~ all of this, tlwrn is still tho twstion of tlw bottom-linn. The 60, as it stands. is not worth the 00 dollars for thn prmnium paek­gn. Until a widnr snloction of games re released that utilize the 360's apahilitins, and the bugs are nootlwd out, it would be wise to old out on purchasing thn unit. 
he Future 
Now that the initial rush is over, w flow of :~60 games has slowod to 
tri1~klo. Whiln the launeh-titles oro a diverse and solid buneh, tho 'LIIli~S that followml wern few and tr lwtweon. and did relativnly little , complement tho library as a hole. The notable nxenption is the ~enntly rnleas1~d "Dead or Alive 4." 
Photo courtesy of www.news.softpedia.com 
Being the 360's soJe game in the lighting genre, it helps to flesh out the library and should find a wel­eome spot in most gamer's library. Featuring a solid fighting system, some new eharaeters, and a sur­prise combatant from th11 "Halo" series of games, it's a great addition to tho pre-existing library. 
llowovor, there have been rela­tively few, if any, worthwhile games that have come out in the two months since its release. The sehed­uled release dates don't show too many games on the horizon, with only a handful planned for the few months. 
This is typical of any new console rnlease however. The PlayStation 2 had few must-have titles for the first year of its life-cycle, as did the Xbox. This should not come as a surprise to most garners, as they are used to the famine that follows the initial feast of games. 
;\ game that promises explosive automobile combat is scheduled to hit eonsumers in a matter of weeks. "Full Auto," developed by Pseudo Interactive and distributed by Sega, features full automobile contaet, the likes of which can be seen in the similarly-themed "Twisted Metal" and "Carmaggedon" franchises. Boasting fully destruetible environ-
May 14,2003 acquires The Xbox drops to 
ttg~r;m:~r~~eiii,;; -~179 in response hird-party')~< .to PlayStation 2's e., price cuts. 
0 i 

November 22, 2005 Microsoft releases the Xbox 360 
November 15, 2002. ·~~sept. s. 2oo4 

a~.mgie releases 
Halo 2, which shatters .~ales records soon ~on release. 
Graphics by GRAHAM EBETSCHfThe Observer 

Z E 
monts, powerful weaponry, detailed graphies and an exeellent Live expe­rience, "Full Auto" bears watehing. 
The next worthwhile game is the latest in Eleetronie Art's established franchise, "Fight Night Round 3." The preliminary screenshots for the game have revealed solid graphies that are near photo-realistie, and the developers have promised the most robust boxing experienee to date. Previous games in the "Fight Night" series were solid efl'orts, and video game tradition holds that this latest iteration will follow suit. 
The two main draws of the fledg­ling system, "Gears of War" and "Halo 3" do not have specific release dates at this moment. The main draws of the original Xbox were the action titles that could be played online, and the same looks to be true for the 360. 
"Gears of War" features a post­apocalyptie setting in which the human race is a shadow of what it used to be. Monsters have appeared out of the Earth, and only a few places on the planet are safe. The player assumes the role of an elite commando in a squad of humans. It's a heavily cooperative game, as the early reports tell that the gamer will have to heavily rely upon team­work and tactics to survive. Due to this, it will feature a cooperative mode between two or more gamers but exaet details are unknown. 
The aee in Microsoft's hole, the "Halo" franchise, also has no set release date. Early reports are still vague, with rumors and myths far outweighing any faetual information at this time. Videos have been leaked, but most have been proven to frauds. The rumored release date is said to eoineide with the release of the PlayStation 3, but no oflicial solid promises have been made. In any case, this showdown promises plenty of drama. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer and Gary Hotze at mbemende@nd.edu and rhotze@nd.edu 
Page 11 


King Kong 
Quite simply, this game is a rush to play. 
There are two modes of play, the first of whieh is onn whern the player assumes the role of the seriptwriter from tlw movie, Jack Driseoll. Being merely human, the dangers hn faces on Skull Island prove to be massive and lifi1 thrnatnning. The first time a player faces ofl' against a dinosaur can be a gripping, trieky experience. 
Some small arms can be aequired.-but unlike most first-per­son games, ammunition is extremely limitnd. This forees garners to become aequaintnd with the most popular weapon on Skull Island, the spear. Throwing a spear fenls surprisingly realistic, as it falls over distancn due to gravity, and creaturns react aecordingly when hit. Some of the most exciting eneoun­ters oeeur with only a spear in the player's grip. 
The enemies in the game vary from giant insects to thn dinosaurs themselves. Minor ernaturos in thn movie, such as the giant bats, play a much larger role in the game. 
Playing as King Kong makes up the other mode of game­play, and this mode presents one of the most unique, exciting experienees seen in recent video game history. lin truly feels and behaves as the player would expect, and fighting oil' giant dinosaurs is an experience most garners will not want to miss. 
The other eharacters in the movie are present, and ren­dered well. Jack Blaek's character looks, acts and sounds realistically, adding to the game's immersive qualities. 
Overall, "King Kong" is a blast to play, and a real trnat for any fan of the movie. Other gamers would bn rnmiss to avoid the game as well, sinee it's tmly a unique experience. 
Overall rating: A-
Comdemned: Criminal Origins 
"Condemned" is probably one of the best-looking launeh titles on the Xbox 360. A"> first-person survival horror game, blood splatters in a fantastic fashion and bashing the !wads of' foes in results in concussions that are both thoroughly detailed and wonderfully realistic. 
The atmosphere of "Condemned: Criminal Origins" is vnry chilling and there are a numbnr of moments of sheer tnrror. Playing the game in the dark, or alone for that matter, is not reeommended. 
The game's main character, Ethan Thomas, is an FBI agnnt who is quiekly thrown into the undnrbolly of a rotting city while pursuing a sadistic serial killer. A"> thn game progrnssns Ethan begins to question his own sanity and hallucinate, which plays nicely into the enf.,1'J'ossing story. 
Ethan's gun is lost early on in the gamn and tho weapons obtained later on have little ammo to work with. Instead, Ethan must rely on pipes and objects limnd or rippnd from walls. In melee eombat all of these itnms have pluses and minuses. 
Level design is fairly good, and features sennes like rodent infested department stores and long forgotten subways. Despite this, however, the game gets a little repntitive towards the end as Ethan doses in on the killer. It senms that nvnn hacking a murderous hobo's arm ofl' loses its charm aftnr while. Also a downside the game is fairly short -it only took a handful of hours to eomplete the first timn through. 
The designers put a lot of collectiblns to find in "Condemned," but just don't expect to be playing long into the late hours of the night-not that the heart could take it. 
Overall rating: B-

Photo courtesy of www.gamespot.com 

The first-person shooting game "Perfect Dark Zero" Is the follow-up to a massively popular Nlntendo 64 game. It has become one of the most highly anticipated releases for the Xbox 360. 
Monday, February 6, 2006

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 
Win gives Clippers best record in team history 
Sacramento recovers from abysmal 0-for-20 fourth quarter performance to take second game ofweekend series with Utah 
Associated Press said. "I thought that maybe rebounding game with nine 
somebody might see the play rebounds, made sure the Kings 
TORONTO -Even though the but nobody saw it." wouldn't repeat the debacle on Los Angeles Clippers have never James missed a driving layup their opening possession. played better, Sam Cassell does­at the buzzer. Rookie Francisco Garcia, who n't want their reputation to Morris Peterson's 3-pointer had X-rays on his hand at half­change. gave Toronto a 110-107 lead time, added consecutive 3­
Elton Brand scored 30 points, with 2:25 left, but Quintin Ross pointers to stretch Sacramento's Cassell added 27, and the converted a three-point play lead to .73-58. Clippers moved 11 games over with 1:54 remaining. They never let up in the final .500 for the first time in team After Bosh missed a jumper, minutes of their fifth straight history with a 115-113 overtime Chris Kaman gave Los Angeles home victory. Garcia scored victory over the Toronto the lead for good with a hook nine of his 11 points in the Raptors on Sunday. shot with 37 seconds left. fourth quarter, and his impres­
"We're just the same old Cassell followed with two free sive defense included a career­Clippers. That's all we are. throws, but Bosh cut the lead to high five blocked shots. We're just the same old one by converting a three-point "''m just trying to do my best Clippers," Cassell said. "We play with 13 seconds left. and just play a lot of defense," want teams to ccmtinue to take Brand missed one of two free Garcia said. "I know Coach us lightly." throws with 10 seconds left, wants me to shoot more open 
After 12 consecutive losing giving the Toronto the chance to shots, and I'm trying to get bet­seasons, the Clippers won for tie, but Bosh's jumper from the ter at it. It felt good on both the eighth time in nine games top of the key hit off the rim. ends tonight." and improved to 12-10 on the Mehmet Okur had 25 points road. They have already sur­Sacramento 96, Utah 78 and eight rebounds for the Jazz, passed their total of 10 road Kenny Thomas' dunk 28 sec­who have lost four of six. They wins in each of the last two sea­onds into the fourth quarter had their own offensive issues sons. clearly had a little extra oomph this time, going scoreless for 
The franchise -known for behind it. nearly 6 minutes in the second being one of the worst in sports Just like that, the Sacramento quarter before falling irretriev­-hasn't been 11 games over Kings knew they would score ably behind when they couldn't the break-even mark since the ·more baskets than they man­score in the first 3:45 of the Buffalo Braves were 30-19 on aged in the same quarter two fourth. Jan. 28, 1976. days earlier against the Utah "We gave them everything 
"It means a lot," Brand said. Jazz. they needed to get their game "Every step we take, first time Mike Bibby scored 23 points, going and win the ballgame," we're 5-0, first time we're 10 Kevin Martin added 20 and the Utah coach Jerry Sloan said. games above .500, first time we Kings hit more than enough "They came up and put the have a winning January. field goals in the fourth quarter pressure on us, and we turned Everything we do we take pride of the victory. the ball over a little bit, and in." Ron Artest scored nine points then we got real casual. There 
Cassell sent the game into despite a bruised hip for the was no execution." overtime with a 3-pointer and Kings, who rebounded just fine The Kings played without scored six points in the extra from a humiliating 0-for-20 starters Bonzi Wells and Brad period. shooting performance Friday in Miller while both nursed minor 
"Sam was terrific. He made the fourth quarter in Salt Lake injuries. Though Artest felt big shots again," Los Angeles City. They managed 12 points awkward while running, he hit coach Mike Dunleavy said. "It's on free throws while blowing a two 3-pointers and led a strong missed five games with back the Knicks after being traded an unbelievable knack that he 12-point lead in an 89-79 defensive effort. spasms. from Toronto on Friday, and has." defeat. With both its stars healthy, received a warm reception from 
Chris Bosh had 29 points, 16 This time, the Kings went 11-Houston 93, New York 89 Houston has its longest winning the crowd. Rose and a first­rebounds and six assists, but he for-19 from the field while fin­With Tracy McGrady and Yao streak since it captured five in a round draft pick went to the missed three jumpers in the ishing off the Jazz on both ends Ming healthy, the Houston row from Dec. 6-15. Knicks for Antonio Davis. Rose fmal minute of overtime, includ­of the court. They've still got all Rockets are better than they "It's different with both those started to make it the 29th dif­ing a potential tying one from the inconsistency to be expected have been in months. guys around," Wesley said. "It ferent starting lineup the the top of key as time expired. from their oft-shuffled roster, But even after a tough win makes it easier on the rest of Knicks have used this season. 
"I won't let that spook me too but the Kings are trying to get it over the struggling New York us. Jamal Crawford scored 24 much. I know I can make that," together. Knicks, the Rockets know they "We did enough, but were not points and Eddy Curry had 15 Bosh said. "I can shoot high Sacramento hasn't lost at still need to improve. where we want to be." for the Knicks, who have lost percentage from there." home since Jan. 8, but is 1-6 on McGrady scored 23 points and The Knicks had a chance to five straight and 11 of the last 
Toronto's Mike James ran into the road in that stretch. David Wesley added 19, includ­tie with 6. 9 seconds left, but a 12. a screen, allowing Cassell to tie "It's like when you smoke cig­ing several key free throws late, 3-point attempt by Jalen Rose Knicks scoring leader Stephon it with a wide open 3-pointer arettes, you've got to take that as Houston won its third was partially blocked by Marbury missed his second with 7.8 seconds left in regula­nicotine patch and break that straight game. Stromile Swift and fell short. straight game with an injured left tion. habit," Artest said after his fifth "We are doing well," Yao said. Wesley, who made four free shoulder. He first injured his 
"I couldn't believe I was that game in Sacramento. "We've "But we must do more. We are throws in the last 23 seconds, shoulder in a loss to Minnesota wide open," Cassell said. got a habit of losing right now. always looking forward." hit his final one with 3 seconds on Jan. 16 and missed three 
James claimed he was We need to get, like, a nicotine Yao, in his fourth game back remaining to ensure the victory. games with the injury last month. grabbed by Brand. TV replays winning patch. We've got to since missing 21 after toe sur­"I wanted that one," Rose "I don't get caught up with showed he just ran into a break that habit of losing, gery, looked to have shaken off said. "I wanted that one very wins and losses," Knicks coach screen. because it can become a habit. any lingering effects of the bad and I'd have liked to see Larry Brown said. "I get caught 
"Elton Brand grabbed me and ... We're working hard to break injury with a strong start and what had happened had he not up with guys trying to do the hugged and basically just that habit." scored 15 points. Houston's blocked my shot." right thing, respecting their wouldn't let me go until Sam Thomas, who scored 10 record is 12-6 when he and Rose scored 16 points and teammates, and playing with Cassell got the ball," James points and led a strong McGrady play. McGrady had had 11 assists in his debut with effort." 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED 
Need students knowledgable about lacrosse to coach middle school in South Bend and/or help with St. Joe High School JV boys team. Stipend available. Send resume to kheisler@nd.edu or wbrennal@ nd.edu 
FoR RENT 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED­ROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 
Stop overpaying for rent. Visit BlueGoldrentals.com 

Blue & Gold Homes is offering a free pool table to all new tenants. 1-7 bdrms, 24-hr maintenance & open leases. Visit BlueGoldrentals.com or call574-250-7653. 
123 ND Ave. 3-bdrm, 1.5 bath. Call574-229-0149. 
3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary 574-993-2208 or grooms@ ourwebspot.net 

For rent: Two story house com­pletely remodeled 2003. Ready for immediate occupancy or next school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, central station monitored security system, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house. surrounded by other student housing, Laundromat next door, basement available for storage of bicycles,luggage,trunks, etc., new furnace and central air, new kitchen including new stove and refrigera­tor, large living roorn for TV or entertaining, free trash rernoval. Call 289-4071. 
COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINI­
UMS AVAILABLE FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BEDROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY. 235-7234 FOR MORE 
DETAIL. 



PERSONAL 

Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 Days from $299! Includes Meals, MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica from $499! Campus Reps Needed! PromoCode:31 www.springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386. 
Spring Break 2006 with Student Travel Services to Jamaica, Mexico, Bahamas and Florida. Do not get left behind! Book now, limited space available. Call for group discounts. Info/Reservations 800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com 
Never, ever bet against the home team in college basketball, especially when they've got a "White Out." · Beware the "White Out." 
Congratulations to the Pittsburgh Steelers and especially Jerome Bettis. God Bless the Bus. 
"I've paid my dues Time after time I've done my sentence But committed no crime And bad mistakes I've made a few I've had my share of sand Kicked in my face But I've come through And I need to go on and on and on and on ... We are the champions-my friends And we'll keep on fighting till the end. We are the champions We are the champions No time for losers', cause we are the champions of the world." "We Are the Champions"-Queen 

Monday, February 6, 2006 
N BA Standings 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
tl~am  record  prt.  GB  
New Jersey  24-21  .533  
Philadelphia  24-23  .511  1  
Boston  18-30  .375  7.5  
Toronto  17-31  .354  8.5  
New York  14-32  .304  10.5  

Eastern Conference, Central Division 
t(~am record pet. GB 
Detroit 39·7 .848 
Cleveland 27-19 .587 12 
Milwaukee 24-22 .522 15 
Indiana 23·22 .511 15.5 
Chicago 20-26 .435 19 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division toam rm:ord pd. GB 
Miami 29-19 .604 
Washington 22-23 .489 5.5 
Orlando 19-26 .422 8.5 
Atlanta 14-32 .304 14 
Charlotte 12-36 .250 17 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
tPam rPrord pet. GB 
Denver 26·23 .531 Utah 23·25 .479 2.5 Minnesota 21·25 .457 3.5 Seattle 19·28 .404 6 Portland 17·29 .370 7.5 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
l.ll!Ull t•eeord pet. GB 
Phoenix 31-16 .660 
LA Clippers 28-17 .622 2 
LA Lakers 24-23 .511 7 
Golden State 21-25 .457 9.5 
Sacramento 20-27 .426 11 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
tC\am record pd. GB San Antonio 37-10 .787 Dallas 37-10 .787 Memphis 26·20 .565 10.5 New Orleans 24-22 .522 12.5 Houston 18·29 .383 19 
Women's College Basketball Big East Conference 
team conf. overall pet. 
Connecticut 10-0 21-2 .913 Rutgers 9-0 17-3 .850 St. John's 7-3 17-4 .810 Marquette 6-4 15-6 .714 Pittsburgh 6-4 15-6 .714 Louisville 5·4 14·6 .700 USF 5-4 15-7 .682 NOTRE DAME 5-5 14-7 .667 DePaul 5-5 18·5 .783 Cincinnati 4-5 14·6 .700 West Virginia 4·5 12·8 .600 VIllanova 3-6 12-8 .600 Seton Hall 3-7 6-15 .286 Georgetown 2-8 9·12 .429 Providence 2-8 9-12 .429 Syracuse 1-9 6·15 .286 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Louisville at Cincinnati 7 p.m. ESPN2 Texas at Texas Tech 7 p.m. ESPN2 St. Mary's at Gonzaga 12 a.m. ESPN2 
NBA 

Chicago at Utah 9 p.m. Comcast 
NHL Tampa Bay at NY Islanders 7 p.m. OLN Calgary at San Jose 1 0:30 p.m. OLN 
AROUND THE NATION 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NFL 

Associated Press 
DETHOIT -Paint this Super Bowl black and gold. With a whole lot of satis­faction for Bill Cowher and his Pittsburgh Steelers. 
Throw in a little trickery featuring MVP I lines Ward, a bunch of help from the Seattle Seahawks and a huge boost from the Terrible Towels, and the Steelers won the Super Bowl 21-10 Sunday. 
Moments al'ter the Holling Stones rocked a Ford Field that could easily have been Heinz Field ­or llines' field -Willie Parker broke a record 75­yard touchdown run. 
The Steelers earned that elusive fifth championship ring and their first since 1980, completing a magic Bus ride that made Jerome Bettis' homecoming-and farewell -a success. 
''I'm a champion. I think the Bus' last stop is here in Detroit," Bettis said. "It's official, like the referee whistle." 
On this night, satisfaction was more than Mick Jagger's signature song that closed the halftime show. 
It was sweet validation for Cowher with a title in his 14th season as their coach, the longest tenure in the NFL. The tough guy, who lost his only previous Super Bowl 1 0 years ago to Dallas, teared up as he walked to midfield to embrace Seahawks coach Mike Holmgren. 
"A lot of people tell you you can't do it, but you know what, it doesn't mean you don't go out and try," Cowher said. "History was not going to determine our fate. Our effort today decided this game and that's what's great. 
"It's surreal. I'm going to tell you, this is a special group of coaches, a special group of players. I was mw small part of this." 
Pittsburgh tied San Francisco and Dallas with its five Super Bowl titles. 
Perhaps the most spm:ial moment for Cowher canH~ when he presented the Vince Lombardi Trophy to 73-ynar-old owner Dan Hooney. 
"''ve bnen waiting a long time to do this," Cowher said. "This is yours, man." 
The Stnnlers cnrtainly got plonty of help from the Seahawks. Soattle was plagued by penalties, drops, poor dock manage­ment nnd <t critical fourth­quarter intorenption of Matt Jlassnlbnek. 

IN BRIEF 
Saints announce return to 
Superdome in September 
NEW OHLEANS -The New Orleans Saints will play the Atlanta Falcons on Sept. 24 in the first event scheduled for the Louisiana Superdome since it was heavily dam­aged by Hurricane Katrina. 
A mural with the news was com­pleted on the outside of the Superdome just bofore the start of Sunday's Super Bowl in Detroit between the Pittsburgh Steelers and Seattle Seahawks. The mural con­tains the date of the game, helmet logos of both teams and a "Go Saints" slogan. 
"We are pleased that this historic reopening will feature the annual renewal of the traditional Falcons­Saints rivalry," NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue said. 
Superdome spokesman Bill Curl confirmed Sunday night that the game would be the first event of any kind to be held in the venue since Katrina struck on Aug. 29. 
Dementieva downs Hingis 
to end comeback effort 
TOKYO -Martina llingis got a taste of the power game in women's tennis, losing her first singles linctl since making her comeback. 
The Swiss star, who has five Grand Slam singles titles, had no answer for ninth-ranked Elena Demcntieva's big serves and returns, falling 6-2, 6-0 Sunday in the final of the Pan Pacific Open. 
llingis upset No. 4 Maria Sharapova in the semifinals, but she was broken three times in the first set and had a series of unforced errors in her fourth tour­nament of 2006 after a three-year retirement. 
With the tone set early, Dementieva took the last three games of the set. 
''I'm not looking for any excuses," llingis said. "She was just too good today. I've had a very good start to my comeback and I will go home with my head up." 
Rookie Holmt;,s becomes 
quickest to top :; I million 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -Wlwn .J.B. Holmes roached tlw third grade, he was good enough to play on the high school golf' team. Four tournaments into his PGA Tour career, he again showed he can play with the big boys. 
The rookie gained live shots on his nearest mmpetitor on the 15th hole and walked away with a seven­stroke victory Sunday in the FBH Open. 
The hard-driving 23-year-old from Kentucky shot a 5-under 66 in the final round -5-under 31 on the back nino -to linish at 21-undnr 263 a11d win $936,000. Combinnd with the $127,500 he won f'or a 1Oth­plaee tin at the Sony Opnn in Hawaii, HolnHlS became thn fastest to win $1 million on the tour. It took Hetief' Goosen live tournaments to reach $1 million in 2001. 
"It was one of' my goals to win out here. It happnned real quickly," 
page 14 Monday, February 6, 2006 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
NCAA BASKETBALL 


Georgetown overcomes 15-point deficit to upend Pitt 
Mario Chalmers, who hit the The Spiders finished with 22
Unranked Jayhawks 

go-ahead basket with 20 sec­turnovers and shot 37 percent come from behind to onds left as Kansas won for the from the field while the 12th time in 14 games, is hop­Colonials' balanced attack shotbeat No. 19 Sooners ing the national media take 52 percent led by Mensah­
note. Bonsu's 7-of-8. "It's a big win for us," said "They cover so much ground
Associated Press 

Chalmers, one of three fresh­and they are so fast that it is 
WASHINGTON -Georgetown men who start for the Jayhawks difficult," Richmond's first-year allowed Aaron Gray to look like (15-6, 6-2 Big 12). coach Chris Mooney said of fac­the next coming of Patrick "People on ESPN have been ing George Washington. "Passes Ewing in the first half. In the talking -'Kansas can't win the that are open one second aren't second half, Pittsburgh's 7 -foot close games.' Hopefully, they open the next." center didn't even score. will get off our backs a little bit. Mensah-Bonsu and Hall keyed 
Hoyas coach John Thompson I think that we earned a lot of the 19-4 run midway through III went to a matchup zone to respect by beating one of the the first half that put the stop him on end, and he pulled toughest teams in the league." Colonials comfortably ahead Gray away from the basket on Freshman Brandon Rush, and they lead 33-18 at halftime. defense by using Jeff Green as a who had vision problems much Jermaine Bucknor, the Spiders' point forward. Those moves of the first half after getting leading scorer, picked up two allowed the 17th-ranked Hoyas poked in the eye, wound up fouls in the opening minute and to overcome a 15-point first­with 18 points and triggered the didn't score in the first half. He half deficit and survive a late Jayhawks' biggest comeback of finished with 12 points. rally for a 61-58 victory over the year with two quick 3-point­No. 9 Pittsburgh on Sunday. ers after Oklahoma went ahead N.C. State 62, Maryland 58 
"I think we did show a lot of 50-34. Nothing appears to come easi­poise, particularly in the last The Sooners (14-5, 5-3), who ly for No. 18 North Carolina part of the first half," had won five in a row and beat­State, particularly lately, with Thompson said. "W€ could have en Kansas in three of their four three consecutive down-to-the­became a little frazzled." previous meetings, seemed to wire games, one of which went 
Green matched his career seize. command with a 16-4 run two overtimes. high with 22 points on 9-for-14 early in the second half. The Yet the Wolfpack continue to shooting, and Brandon Bowman Sooners were dominating the find a way to win, and their scored 10 of his 15 points in the boards and Rush, Kansas' lead­method was a bit maddening to second half for the Hoyas (16-4, ing scorer, was having a poor Maryland. Of their 17 field 7-2 Big East), who have two vic­shooting day. goals, 12 came on 3-pointers--tained a one-game lead over but Bethel converted two free tories over Top Ten teams dur­But then Rush came to life "When they make 3s, they're Miami for second place in the throws and Bennerman added ing their six-game winning and the sellout crowd of 16,300 a good team," Terrapins guard league. Second-ranked Duke another to offset a tip-in by streak. The other came on Jan. put up a deafening roar as D.J. Strawberry said. "They leads at 9-0. Ekene Ibekwe. Maryland 21 over then-No. 1 Duke. Kansas ran off a 17-3 spree in were on, and they won the "Just another hard-fought, missed three attempts in the 
The victory also moved the matchup of last year's co­game." down-to-the-buzzer ACC game," final seconds, then a final one Georgetown into sole possession Big 12 champions. Tony Bethel made two of Sendek said. "What else would when Mike Jones was short on of fourth place in the Big East "We couldn't have played any those long-range jumpers and we expect from these two teams an off-balance jumper right and ended a four-game home better for 34 minutes," added two free throws down and this league?" before the final buzzer. losing streak to the Panthers. Oklahoma coach Kelvin the stretch, helping N.C. State Andrew Brackman made a "We were right there," 
The Hoyas won despite get­Sampson said. "We had the hold off Maryland to give coach layup with 13:21 remaining for Strawberry said. "We've just got Ling outrebounded 35-23 and crowd out of the game. It's dis­Herb Sendek his 250th career N.C. State, and what turned out to keep pushing." with only two points from their appointing. This one is hard to victory. to be his team's lone two-point We are going to be a good bench -Darrel Owens' two handle because I thought we Bethel finished with five 3s field goal of the second half team, we've just got to do a free throws with 3.6 seconds outplayed them for a long time and 17 points, and Cameron increased its lead to 42-34. couple of things to tighten it remaining. Georgetown nearly and they outplayed us the last 6 Bennerman added 11 points for The Terrapins (14-7, 4-4) ral­up." blew a 10-point lead in the final minutes." the Wolfpack (18-4, 7-2 Atlantic lied to get within three on Nik It gave the Wolfpack their 39 seconds, and Pittsburgh's Coast Conference), who main-Caner-Medley's late 3-pointer, fourth straight conference victo-

Ronald Ramon missed a long but wide open 3-pointer at the buzzer that could have sent the game to overtime. 
"I told the players it's hard for me to get excited about that vic­tory," Thompson said, "thinking about those last couple of min­utes." 
Gray scored all of his 15 points in the first half and went 0-for-4 with three turnovers against the matchup zone in the second. He also finished with 11 rebounds. Carl Krauser and Ramon each added 11 points for the Panthers (17-3, 6-3), who led 33-18 in the first half and 35-28 at halftime. 
It's been a strength of ours, executing against the zone," Panthers coach Jamie Dixon said. "We didn't do as good a job today .... The key was that we didn't finish off the first half. We should have been up by more." 
Pittsburgh lost at No. 1 Connecticut last week and has dropped three of five -all on the road -after a 15-0 start. No. 11 West Virginia is next on Thursday. 
"Teams lose," Dixon said. "It's how you respond, and we've always responded well." 
Kansas 59, Oaklahoma 58 
Here's a rare sight: Kansas, of all schools, playing the no respect card. 
Unranked all season with a team made up almost entirely of freshmen and sophomores, the Jayhawks won their fifth straight Sunday, using a stirring comeback from a 16-point sec­ond-half deficit to beat No. 19 Oklahoma. 

George Washington 80, Richmond 55 
George Washington played the way it wanted to and patient Richmond never had a chance. 
The 1Oth-ranked Colonials, who average over 80 points per game, got the tempo going their way early and beat Richmond. 
The Spiders entered the game second in the nation in scoring defense at 53.5 points per game but George Washington used its defense to set the tone. 
"Our defense allowed the game to be played at a much faster pace and I think that was the difference," Colonials coach Karl Hobbs said. 
Pops Mensah-Bonsu and Danilo Pinnock each scored 16 points and Mike Hall added 15 for George Washington (18-1, 8­0 Atlantic 10), which won its lOth straight and moved within one win of matching the best start in the program's history. 
Kevin Steenberge lead the Spiders (11-10, 4-4) with 15 points and 10 rebounds. 
The Colonials took control with a 19-4 first-half run and they dictated the pace to the Spiders by pressuring them at both ends of the court. The Colonials forced 14 first-half turnovers that lead to 12 points, most of them in transition. 
"Our intensity was terrific," Hobbs said. "I thought we forced them to have to play the way we wanted them to play. They had been able to dictate their style of play against every­one and we wanted to make sure that they had to play the way we wanted them to play." 

MCNAIR SCHOLARS SUMMER PROGRAM AT NOTRE DAME 
ANNOUNCES THE 2005 -2006 RECRUITMENT MEETINGS WITH PROF. DON POPE-DAVIS 
AND MS. MARY NICHOLS (1-7514) 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2006 
7:00-8:00 PM 
IN ROOM 116 DEBARTOLO 
FOR ALL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS WHO ARE EITHER: 
• First Generation College Students from low income families 
OR 

• African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans 
(Visit the program at http://www.nd.edu/-mcnair/) 
Monday, February 6, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NHL 
Weight lifts Hurricanes over Bruins in shootout 
Montreal blanks injury-riddled Philadelphia as Canadiens' backup goalie records second consecutive shutout 
AswciatcJ Press 
BOSTON-It didn't takn long for Doug WPight to have an impart on tlw Carolina llurrit·.arws. 
Wtdght., playing in just his snt:­ond gan11~ for Carolina. seornd thP game-winning goal in thn shootout to lift tlw surging llurricarws to a 4-:{ win ovnr llw Boston Bruins on Sunday. 
Carolina goalie Martin (;erber, who stoppnd Lhrnn shots during t.hn shoolout, stuiTnd a Sergoi Samsonov all.nmpt to soruro tho win. lin had 24 savos in rogula­tion and ovPrtinw. 
"Marlin rnadn a fnw big stops whPn wn IHHHlnd him to," Carolina loft wing Hrik Colo said. "lin's btwn doing a gl'l~at job. ospnrially in pnnalty shots." 
Hay Whit.rwy shot between Boston goalif~ Tim Thomas· lngs for tlw lirst goal of tlw shootout. But aftnr (;nrbnr turrwd away l'atricP Bnrgnron and <;Inn Murray, Brad Boyns scored for Boston to !'oren another round. 
Wnight, who was tradnd from tlw St. Louis Blues to tho llurriearws last Monday, scorml on Carolina's next opportunity. 
Carolina improved to 5-1 in shootouts, while Boston l'nll to 0-5. 
"Wn havn guys that arn eapa­hln of scoring," Boston coach Mikn Sullivan said. "For what­ovnr rnason. wn haven't had success in shootouts." 
1\rie Staal had a goal and an assist and Cory Stillman addnd a pair of assists for the llurriranos, who improved to 2­1-0 on tlwir four-gamn road trip. 
Carolina, which lost to New .lNsny 3-0 Friday. rneovnrod from a pair of onn-goal defieits to win for 15th win in 17 games. Thn llurricanes havn the bnst rncord in the NIIL and haven't lost. consecutive games sincn losing thrnn straight Nov. 19-22. 
"Whethnr we're up a goal or down a goal. we kept coming," Stillman said. "It gons to show you what our tmun is made of." 
Brad Stuart forcnd overtime whnn he took a nifty pass from 1'..1. Axnlsson and fired a slap shot to the loft of Gerber 17:55 into thn third period. Milan Jurcina also assisted on the goal, which was Stuart's eighth of the smtson. 
Carolina outshot Boston 7-0 in ovnrtime and Frantisek Kaberle hit tho IPft post on a 3-on-1 in the dosing seeonds of overtimo bol'orn thP llurricanes won 2-1 in tho shootout. ­
The Bruins lost their seeond consecutive gamP after winning five of six. Thomas had 40 saves, but fell to 7-2-1 sinen getting <:ailed up from Providenen on Jan. 10. 
Thomas savnd all nine shots he faced in the first period to help the Bruins go up 1-0. But the II urricanes outshot Boston 18-4 in the sceond period, scor­ing twiee. 
"I can't say enough about (Thomas)," Boston defender Nick Boynton said. "lie's been playing groat. lie makes key saves whnn he has to give us a shot." 
Staal took a Stillman pass and fired a slap shot past Thomas from the middle of the right dr­de 3:23 into the third period to put the llurrieanns up 3-2. 
Staal, who has four goals and 

Going HOME this Spring BreakP 
Instead of 03 cu uffi w0UJ wll fD w83 , catch a few prospective Domers! 

Sign up to be a High School Ambassador! 
Mandatorv Training Sessions (anend iUSI one): 
Monday, February 6th at 6:30 OR 7:30 p.m. Tuesday, February 7th at 6:30 OR 7:30p.m. Room 200, Main Building 

For Questions, email Callie or Katie at hsa@nd.edu 
Peter Laviolette said. 
Glen Wesley's seeond goal of the year tied it at 1 in the see­ond period. Thomas made a pad save on a Chad LaHose slap .shot, but Wesley poked the rebound past an outstrotched Thomas and into tlw bottom right-hand corner of the net. 
Ward also assisted on the score. 
Montreal 5, Philadelphia 0 
Cristobal lluet continues to 
give the Montreal Canadinns the 
kind of' goaltending they expect­
ed to get from Jose Theodore. 
Iluet recorded his sneond 
shutout in as many days, and 
Michael Hyder got his first 
career hat trick to lead the 
Canadiens to a win. 
Hunt, who got his first Montreal shutout in Saturday's 2-0 win over Boston, made 25 savns to win consecutive gamns for the lirst time since March 9­10, 2004, when he was with Los Angeles and swept the Phoenix Coyotes in back-to-back games. 
The 30-year-old French man post1~d his sixth career shutout while making his third straight start since replacing struggling starter Theodore in three of' the Canadiens' previous four games. 
"That's what I'm hero for," Iluet said. "We have two goalies and when needed, we've got to stop up and do the job. The matter is to help the team right now, that's what we need." 
Iluet lowered his goals­against-average to 2.47, and his save pereentage to .926, while improving his reeord to 5-5-1 in 14 games. Theodore, the 2001­02 league MVP, is 17-15-5 with a 3.46 goals-against-average and an .881 save pereentage. 
The consecutive shutouts were the first by a Montreal goalie since Theodore accom­plished the feat Feb. 5 and 7, 2002 with a pair of 1-0 wins in New Jersey and over Pittsburgh. respeetivoly. 
"We gave him a pretty easy night," Flyers forward Turnnr Stevenson said. "When I look down and he's stretching halfway through the game becausn he's only seen 11 shots, you know, we made it pretty easy on him. You could have put basically anybody in net and we never really had anything until the third pnriod." 
Hyder seorml on a pownr play midway through thn first, nnd­ing a pnrsonal seven-game goal drought in the proeess. lin added his sneond of thn game just 40 seeonds into the third to put the Canadinns up 3-0 and 
got his third goal  - his team­ 
leading 23rd  - on  a  5-on-:~  
advantage at 1 h:52.  

"Sinen it was my first one the guys hit me on tlw !wad a eou­ple of Limns and I don't know if I've got a eoneussion," Hyder said of thn hat trick celebration that prompted about a dozen fans to toss baseball <~aps on thn ice. "It's kind of enol to get it under my bnlt." 
Jan Bulis and Sheldon Souray also seorml for Montreal, whieh evened its record under GM and head coach Bob Gainey at (J-h. 
Philadelphia, playing with an injury-decimatnd lirwup, lost its third in a row and has lost live of six (1-4-1). 
"It was disappointment morn than frustration," Flyers cap­tain Derian llatcher said. 
Already playing without Peter Forsberg, Knith Primeau, Eric Desjardins and Kim .Johnsson. the Flyers lost. dnl'ensmnan Mikn Hathje to a groin strain during the game after losing Pntr Nedved and Chris Therrien to injury Saturday. 
Nedved left tlw Flyers' 4-3 overtime loss to thn Nnw York Hangers with a groin injury and Therrien also left the ganw because of an undisdosed !wad injury. 
Montrnal has played a pair of home matinees during Super Bowl weekend evnry s<Htson since 1990-91. The weeknnd sweep improved tlw Canadinns' record in those games to 15-IJ-4 overall. 
Hyder, who hadn't seornd sinen rnaehing 20 goals in a h-2 loss in Vancouvnr on .Jan. 21, scored his 21st goal 11:14 in when he put. Saku Koivu's pass beyond AntPro Niitymaki on Uw first pm,vnr-play opportunity of the game. 

six assists in the last seven games and 34 goals on the sea­son, also assisted on Cole's game-tying goal late in the sec­ond period. 
Less than a minute after Boyes' 16th of the season gave the Bruins a 2-1 lead, Cole backhanded a shot past Thomas to make it 2-2 15:23 into the seeond period. 
"I thought we were pretty relentless," Carolina coach 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, February 6, 2006 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Quick start propels Calvin past Saint Mary's 

By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Calvin College opened up the game against Saint Mary's with nine points in three minutes and never looked back, not allowing the Belles to tie the game in a 76­64 win over Saint Mary's Saturday. 
The Belles did make things interesting in the first half, clos­ing the gap to five points with seven minutes left until intermis­sion, but the No. 14 Knights bat­tled back with a 9-2 run and entered halftime with a 35-23 lead. The Belles did try to respond in the second half, but could only cut the lead to eight points before Calvin would again deny any comebacks by going 3­for-3 from the floor and 12-for­14 on foul shots to cement the 

ND TENNIS 
Irish drop a pair to ranked foes 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
So close, and yet so far away. 

The Irish struggled on the road this weekend, dropping two 4-3 matches to No. 30 North Carolina and No. 9 Duke. 
But there is little rest in sight for Notre Dame, as the Irish travel to No. 4 Illinois Tuesday. 
"There's a toughening process that comes with play­ing great teams," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "At some point, you have to realize it's your turn and that you're not satisfied with coming close. And I can tell you no one here is satisfied with coming close." 
North Carolina 4 Notre Dame 3 
Despite an upset of the nation's No. 1 doubles team by Ryan Keckley and Barry King, the Irish were unable to pull out a win over North Carolina in Chapel Hill Saturday. 
"They were really hard fought," Bayliss said of the individual matches. "Carolina fights extremely well. Their crowd, they had a big crowd, they were very vocal. The level of intensity was extremely high, just every match, tooth and nail, was really hard fought." 
In doubles, Stephen Bass and Eric Langenkamp were first off the courts, losing 8-4 at No. 3. Brett Helgeson and Sheeva Parbhu followed with an 8-5 loss, giving the point to the Tar Heels. After North Carolina had clinched the point, Keckley and King won at No. 1 with an 8-4 defeat over Ryan Luchici and Brad Pomeroy, the nation's No. 1 doubles team. 
In singles, Patrick Buchanan won 6-2, 6-4 at No. 6 to tie the score at 1-1. However, Helgeson was forced to retire at No. 4, trailing 7-6 (7-4), 3-0. 
"I ie was up 5-4 in the first set and he began to cramp and '"v ~_;ramps got worse, he final­!) had to retire," Bayliss said. 
·11e needed two IVs and was in t'1e emergency room." Down 2-1, the Irish rallied ,1•ith a win at No. 5 from 
•vho improved to 5-0 in the uu.. match season. His 4-6, 6-0, 7-5 victory came before King fell 1-6, 6-3, -3 at No.3. 
The Tar Heels clinched the match at No. 1, when No. 5 Luchici defeated Bass -cur­rently ranked No. 8 nationally -by a 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 margin. 
Bass's close loss was also sig· nificant in the context of last year's match between the two players. · 
"Stephen lost pretty badly to [Luchici] a year ago and now all of a sudden he's really in a war with him, and it really shows the progress he's made," Bayliss said. 
Parbhu won the final match on the courts, defeating Derek Porter to win 2-6, 7 -6(7 -5), 6­
2. 

Duke 4, Notre Dame 3 
With a revamped doubles lineup, the Irish won the dou­bles point from powerhouse Duke but couldn't put away the Blue Devils in another close defeat. 
"We changed our doubles comb[ination] because Brett wasn't able to go," Bayliss said. "The team we beat at third doubles had won against Illinois and for the second day in a row, our No. 1 team IKeckley and King] had a real big win." 
Keckley and King were first off the courts with a dominat­ing 8-2 victory at No. 1. Langenkamp, paired with Andrew Roth, won 8-5 at No. 3 to clinch the point for the Irish, despite an 8-6 loss by Bass and Parbhu at No. 2 doubles. 
Keckley was again a stand­out player for the Irish, with wins in both doubles and sin­gles despite an Irish loss to the Blue Devils. 
In singles, Helgeson fell 6-0, 6-1 at No. 3, his first time in that position. King lost at No. 4 in straight sets of 6-4, 6-4, and Duke pulled away 3-1 with a win at No. 6 as lrackli Akhvlediani lost 6-3, 6-2. 
However, the Irish rebound­ed as No. 14 Parbhu topped No. 20 Jonathan Stoke 4-6, 6­4, 6-1 at No.2. 
"That was a great win for Sheeva today," Bayliss said. "[Stoke is] a top-20 player in college tennis. At Duke, indoors at home, he doesn't lose very often. Sheeva really returned serve well ... he real­ly had to step up to the plate and hit the ball with authority." 
Keckley tied the score at 3-3 with a 7-6, 6-3, 6-0 win at No. 5. 
"Keckley deserves a ton of credit," Bayliss said, explaining that Keckley's singles oppo­nent, Kiril Dimitrov, recently came to Duke from Bulgaria and had performed well in pro­fessional tournaments there. "[Keckley] really played an unbelievably great third set, he played with a lot of courage today ... he found different ways to get to the net, he used his slice backhand, he served and volleyed -he really just kept him on his heels the whole match." 
However, Bass fell to No. 9 Ludovic Walter in a hotly con­tested 6-4, 2-6, 6-3 match to give the victory to the Blue Devils. 
"One guy who deserves a lot of credit is [Bass] for putting in the effort at that position against some of the best play­ers in the country day after day," Bayliss said. "I know he's crushed with the outcome with some of the recent matches, but a year ago he wasn't com­petitive against some of these people and now he's right here toe-to-toe." 
The Irish have one day of rest before traveling to Illinois Tuesday. 
"As disappointing and crushed as we are with the results, we're ready to go," Bayliss said. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Offering 
affordable 
flying lessons 
tmm South Send 
Regional Airport 

win. 
Four of the Belles' five starters had double digit points, but still could not overcome the large deficit established early in the game. Moreover, the Belles were not as strong as Calvin on the glass, as they were out-rebound­ed 36-23. Saint Mary's also shot only 38.6 percent from the floor, compared to Calvin's 52.3 per­cent. 
Starting point guard Bridget Lipke, in her third game back since she injured her ankle in a Jan. 18 game against Ablien, shot 1-for-7 from the floor and grabbed two rebounds with five assists in 35 minutes. In the three games Lipke has played since returning from her injury, she has shot 6. 7 percent from the floor. 
Overall, the Belles felt they played well, particularly in light of their many recent successes. 
"We gave a good efl'ort against Calvin," forward Shelly Bender said. "But we have to rebound for the rest of the season." 
In spite of the loss, the Belles are still in a good position going into the MIAA postseason at 1 0­12 and 8-5 in conference. With only three games to go, the Belles are guaranteed to be at least .500 in conference, their best fin­ish in five years. More important­ly, it gives the Belles the chance to host a first round playofl' game at Angela Athletic Center if they can win one more conference game, which Bender thinks they can do against Kalamazoo (6-13, 3-9) next Saturday. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 

TRACK AND FIELD 
Erigha, Benninger excel in dash, run 
By JORDAN BELTZ Sports Writer 
At the country's largest meets, the biggest stars often shine. Notre Dame has several bright stars, and that was evident with their performances over the weekend at the prestigious Meyo Invitational at the Loftus Sports Center. 
Several members of the Irish squad turned in remarkable performances against some of the top competitors in the nation. 
Maryann Erigha turned in a sparkling performance in the women's sprints. Erigha took home the title in the women's 60-meter dash, and in doing so she set a new Notre Dame 
,record with a time of 7.42 sec­onds. Erigha also ran the women's 200-meter dash, fin­ishing second with a time of 
23.74 seconds. Both marks were good enough to provision­ally qualify her for the NCAA championships. 
Junior Kurt Benninger turned in yet another solid showing, this time in the men's 3000­meter run. Benninger opted not to run the mile, the signature event of the meet, in favor of challenging the defending NCAA champion -Michigan sopho­more Mike Woods. 
He turned the 3000-meter run into the most exciting event of the meet, waging a thrilling duel with Woods. Woods ended up passing Benninger on the final lap and the Irish junior finished second with a time of 7:52.27. Benninger's mark obliterated the Notre Dame record in the 3000 by a full two seconds and earned him an automatic berth in the NCAA Championships. 
In the meet's signature event, the Meyo Mile, Pittsburgh stand­out Sam Bair, Jr. held off a pack of four other challengers to win with a time of 4:01.22. His father Sam Sr. ran a sub-four minute mile for Kent State in the 1970s and Bair Jr. came just short of making the duo the first father-son tandem to achieve the mark. 
Contact Jordan Beltz at jbeltz@nd.edu 


~·~_
Join Us 

For Our Texas Hold'em 
First 

POKER TOURNAMENT 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2006 
Doors Open at 2pm 
Limited Re-Buys Available Game Begins at 4pm 
(South Bend Time) ATM, Food & Beverages $100.00 entry fee includes $25 registration 
";Vt4-t Pta-e-e 
PRIZE PooL 1s 1o% oF 

pt I () ()()() THE FIELD TOTALLING 
, $22,500 
Register early at: www.fop36.com 
1st Place Prize and Prize Pool based on 300 participants prizes will be adjusted for fewer participants 
FRATERNAL ORDER OF POUCE LODGE #36 
1530 S. Main St., South Bend, IN 
574-233-3101 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, February 6, 2006 page 17
The Observer+ SPORTS 


Spartans 
continued from page 20 
forward .Josh Sdba said. "They had nxcnllnnt stick position. so wn ended up with a lot of tipp<HI and blocknd shots. All we nnNI to do is get llw puck better along tlw hoards and makP sure wo keep trying to put tlw puck in thn net." 
The Irish started Friday's 
•·ont<~st in South Bend strong, earning a f<~w early chances 
"She focuses really well on what she dtws. She goes into ear.h 

Duals 
bout as if it is the most impor­continued from page 20 
tant." I lousing said. "And she hw.; 

all the skills." because of the Junior World Cup Sophomore Melanie Bautista in Italy. led the women's fi1il by finishing In the women's portion of the X-1, followed by Hadwl Cota (I 1-· 
competition, the  3),  Creshnwn  
No. 1 Irish shut out  Adrienne Nott (4­ 
Case and Purdue 27-0. The other wins came against  "Going into it, we thought we were  0). l~milie 0) and Colleen  Prot (5­senior Walsh  
Michigan  State  going to do really  ( 13-)).  
(2:~-4), Indiana (22-5) and Michigan (21-6).  well. We hmJe been practicing very hard,  Tlw Irish rnturn t.o action for tlwir final  
Noteworthy per­ and we  regu Iar-season  
formances  r.ame  preparedfor it  dual  at the UC  
from senior  firth-year Becca  really well. "  San Dingo Duals on Feb. I I.  
Chimahusky (14-1)  In addition to  
and  freshman  Erin Housing  NotrP Damn and  
Madeleine Stephan  Irish fencer  San I )iPgo, otlwr  
(14-1) in epee.  lPaJllS t.hal Will IJp  
In sabre, fresh­ cornpPI.ing  ar<~  

man Ashlny Serrettn continw~d Stanford. Air For('.e, Cal StalP her streak of remarkable per­Fullerton and Cal Tech. formances as she finislwd 14-1, followed by junior Angnla Vincent Contact Dan Tapetillo at (13-2) and Housing (12-3). jtapetil@nd.edu 
later, when forward Tim Kennedy broke away from the pack and snuck the puck bntwnen Brown's stick and his body. 
The Irish got a goal ol' their own from Evan Hankin with nine seconds lel't to pull within one, but it was too little too late. Still, Sciba said the team felt it eould win even as the game drew to a dose. 
"Thern's always a chance, whether the puck bounces one way or another, that you might score," he said. "Whethnr there 

against Michigan "There's always a arn nine seconds 
Slate goalie chance, whether the or nine minutes Dominie Vicari. left, we always
puck bounces one

hut were unable feel like we can to score. way or another, that score." 
Tlw Spartans you might score. " Saturday's hrokn the seore­rematch in East lnss lin with a Lansing was one
Josh Sclba 

pownr play goal of the best games by .Justin Irish forward of' Brown's 
Abdelkader at 
13:37 of' tlw first period. Irish forward Tim Wallace was ealled l'or holding, and the Spartans peppered goalie Dave Brown l'or most of the power play until Abdelkader skated in and pushed a rebound past Brown for the 1-0 lnad. 
AftPr a scoreless seeond peri­od, mueh of' which saw Notre Damn killing oil' penalties, Seiba tied the game with a pownr­play goal of his own. A hooking pnnalty on .lim McKenzie with :{5 snconds left in the second period gavo Notre Dame the man advantage to start the third period. Seiba eapitalized with a shot l'rom the blue line. 
"We came into the period af't<~r tlw intnrmission wlwre we had talked about getting morn shots at Vkari," the junior said. "I just l'ound my way into the middle and got a nke pass l'rom IMark I Van Cuilder. Fortunatnly, the puck found the hack of' the net." 
Thn lie score would not last. Barely l'our minutes later, a shot by MSU forward Tim Crowder trickled past Brown's pad and into tlw nnt to give the Spartans tho lead. 
Mkhigan State would extend its advantage thrnn minutes 
career, but even 
his season-high 3X saves could not save the Irish from another defeat. 
The Spartans peppered the Notre Dame goalkeeper all night, scoring their first goal on a dellection by forward David Booth. 
The Irish equalized late in the second period. Just after Michigan State returned to full strongth following a Notre Dame power play, Irish fresh­man Erik Condra took a pass l'rom junior Wes O'Neill and fired it home to tie the game. 
In the ensuing minutes, the Spartans had two breakaway ehances to tie the game, but eouldn't capitalize on either of them as shots by Abdelkader and Booth both clanged oiT the posts. Michigan State finally broko through for the game­winner with 5:29 left in the game on a shot by loam captain Drow Miller. Miller dellected a rebound of a Booth shot past Brown to oarn the weekend sweep for his team. 
Notre Dame will try to right the ship next weekend in a home and home against Ferris State Friday and Saturday. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Write for Sports. Call 1-4543. 


Monday, February 6, 2006

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS 
Friars 
continued from page 20 
managed only six points. 

"We did a great job on her; I was really pleased," McGraw said. "We were worried about being able to play man-to-man on her because she's quick and she can drive the ball. And I thought our post did an excellent job on her all around -man, zone, whatever we were in." 
Providence coach Phil Seymore said the Irish defense on Nwafili made it impossible for the Friars to compete. 
"II" she's not scoring, say your prayers," Seymore said of Nwafili. 'They outmatched us physically, and just basketball-wise, they're better ... They are just more tal­ented than we are." 
Notre Dame's main presence in the post was Courtney LaVere. The senior had two blocks and shut down Nwafili-and she kept that suecess going on the other side of the court, hitting 9-of-1 0 !rom the floor for 18 points. 
At 6-foot-3, LaVere said she planned to take advantage of her size against Providence. 
"I knew there was going to be a lot of mismatches, so I thought I'd be able to score in the block a lot easier," she said. "It was nice that I hit my shots. It got me in a rhythm for the whole game." 
The Irish established control of the game midway through the first half and steadily increased their lead the rest of the way. 
With the game tied at 12 with 
14:27 remaining in the opening half, LaVere hit a jumper at the top of the key, and Notre Dame had the lead for good. 
Largely behind the hustle play of Charel Allen and Tulyah Gaines, the Irish extended their advantage to 39-28 by intermission. Allen finished with 10 points, eight 
Retter 
continued from page 20 
things right on both sides of the ball and earning its 66-48 win over Providence. And the change in month may have brought the team a renewed sense of confidence. 
"We talked about that a few days ago, how we were really glad it was February, and hopefully as a team we're a lit­tle more focused," senior guard Megan Duffy said. 
In truth, Saturday's disman­tling of Big East cellar-dweller Providence is what should have happened, and the fact that the Irish were able to consistently dominate may indicate that they are beginning to show signs of becoming the elite team they are capable of being. 
For the second consecutive game, Notre Dame played a full game without any significant scoring drought, a streak it needs to keep alive in order to get out of the middle of the Big East pack. The Irish, who at times have depended on Duffy to put the team on her shoul­ders, steadily got points from everyone on the floor. While Dufl'y finished with 12 points, she was outshined by the team's other senior, forward Courtney Lavere, who scored a team-high 18 on 9-for-10 shooting, and the two captains joined guards Brenna Gray and Charel Allen, each of whom had 10 points, to give the team four players in double figures. 
"That's what we need, we haven't had that since [The Duel in the Desert in Las Vegas], so that's what we've rebounds, and four assists ..Gaines matched Allen's eight rebounds and added six points of her own. Each had three steals. 

"Defensively, I thought Charel and Tulyah did a great job on the boards," McGraw said. 
Duffy said Breona Gray's play was also crucial in the win. Gray finished with 10 points in 22 min­utes. 
"As long as they run, that's my job to get them the ball," Duffy said. "It's hard to catch Tulyah and 'Bre' when they get out and run. And they did a fantastic job of filling the lanes and then finish­ing." 
Notre Dame kept up its fast­paced offense in the second half, extending the lead to 60-36 mid­way through the second period. Duffy said the quick tempo Irish attack help their defense, which held Providence to 6-of-32 (18.8 percent) shooting in the second half. 
"[The fast pace is nice] because we get some easy buckets and don't have to run as much offense out of it," she said. "That gets our legs underneath us, and we get some easy baskets, and it's a little easier on the defensive end to get some stops." 
Notre Dame next faces Villanova on Tuesday at the Joyce Center. That game has been switched from 7 p.m. to 6 p.m. for television purposes. 
Notes: 

+ 
The four players in double digits scoring for the Irish were the most since five players scored 10 or more in Notre Dame's 68-55 win over Utah Dec. 18. 

+ 
The 48 points allowed was the best defensive performance for the Irish since their season­opening 55-45 win over Michigan Nov. 18. 


Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd.edu 
been missing, just different contributions from different people," Irish head coach Muffet McGraw said. 
Defensively, the team's aggressive play forced 18 turnovers and four shot-clock violations -limiting the Friars to just 28.3 percent shooting from the floor. 
The Irish even dominated on the boards, where they have struggled for the better part of the season. Notre Dame grabbed eight more rebounds than Providence and was led by guards Duffy, Allen, and Tulyah Gaines, all of whom had eight. 
"That's like 100 for us, that's a huge margin," McGraw said of the rebounding differential. 
Ultimately, Saturday's contest was a game Notre Dame need­ed, a game where they per­formed well in all facets, even if it came against a weaker opponent. Clearly, an 18-point victory will always have its bright spots, and the Irish had a lot on Saturday. Perhaps more important than the score was who scored. With everyone contributing and points finally coming from the post -most notably, Lavere's 18 -the Irish proved they can be a complete and dangerous team. 
"We need to be balanced, we need to have an outside game we need to have an inside game, and you know, what bet­ter way than to have a senior do it, to step up her game," Duffy said. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
Overti01e 
continued from page 20 

Quinn led all scorers with 31 points (11-of-21 field goals), making two free throws with 
11.2 seconds remaining to put his team up, 80-77. But Dean ran off several screens on the ensuing possession and curled around Louisville forward David Padgett (24 points) to make the tying shot from the right side, despite a hand in his face from Irish center Torin Francis (three points, 10 rebounds). 
In overtime, Irish shooting guard Colin Falls missed a 3­point attempt down 88-86. Louisville guard Brandon Jenkins' only missed free throw attempt of the afternoon (7-of­
8) with 8.5 seconds left gave Notre Dame a chance to tie. Quinn rushed upcourt guarded by Dean and forced a running 3-pointer from the right wing, but the shot fell short, !!Tid so did the Irish -again. 
The Irish and Louisville shot an identical 42.2 percent from the field, each making 27-64 total shots as a team. Both teams also attempted about half of their field goals from the 3-point line. The Irish made more from behind the arc (17­of-34), while the Cardinals sank 13-of-28. 
But Louisville also scored 25 South Florida (0-8) in the utes. second-chance points to Notre standings. Four of the remaining seven Dame's seven, offsetting hot The Irish started off teams on the Irish schedule outside shooting from Quinn Saturday's game by making have losing records in the Big and Carter (10-of-15 combined seven of their first 10 3-point East -Rutgers (3-6), South from 3-point range). attempts by the 10:10 mark, Florida (0-8), DePaul (2-7) and 
The loss pushes Notre Dame when Notre Dame led 25-23. Providence (3-6). one step further away from its But Louisville went on a 6-0 Notre Dame hosts Rutgers goal of reaching the Big East run, capped by Jenkins' strip of Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. at the Tournament at Madison Square Quinn near mid-court that led Joyce Center, then has a week Garden in March. to a fast-break lay up and a 29-before its next game, a home 
The top 12 teams will 25 Cardinals lead with 5:10 contest with last-place South advance to the postseason tour­remaining. Florida. nament from the new, 16-team Notre Dame trailed at half­Big East. At 1-8, Notre Dame time, 44-38, not attempting a Contact Pat Leonard at remains No. 15, ahead of only free throw in the first 20 min-pleonard@nd.edu 

Attention: 
JUNIORS 
who are interested in the 
Rhodes Scholarship 
(for two years ofstudy at Oxford) 
Marshall Scholarship 
(for two years ofstudy in the United Kingdom) 
Mitch ell Scholarship 
(for one year ofstudy in Ireland or Northern Ireland) 
Come to an information meeting on 
Tuesday, February 7 at Spm in 120 DeBartolo or Wednesday, February 8 at noon in the Coleman Morse Hammes Lounge 
Presented by the Fellowships Ojfice I05 0 'Shaughnessy .fellows@nd.edu 

ERIK POWERS & ALEC WHITE

JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM

CROISSANTWORLD JUMBLE 
WE. C:IOI  DON E.  \N  A,N~  C:..ASE..,  WAR.NE.D  '{OU.  1-\E..  t-'\l(.:rt\\  
LE.\.S  C:..E.Lt.e,f!..A\  SK.  'jOU TO  1>0  --n.IAT. \~E.  flop£  
CAN  RE.AlL'i  
f'rz.:z.. A AND pop. .SLU<.. Pf!..\St.D '/oU !HIS MQr;?.NINl"1.  

J1~&!1[R
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
LUTEL 

j
rii 
C2006 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
i;i~-~~ 
2-(.

tYENKODj 
WHEN THE: AGING

I J r 
PUNTER WA? 
www.jumble.com 
RE:LE:A?E:D, HE:--­

tCORCUNj 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J rI I I 
suggested by the above car-

A:[ I I I I I JD"[ I I I ]'' 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturday' I Jumbles: LINEN ADULT GLOBAL EFFIGY s Answer: How she reacted when she joined the singing 
club-"GLEE"-FULLY 
Monday, February 6, 2006 
The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Defense grp., 62 Place to 1 "A guy walks 1954-77 exchange rings into a " 37 Dentists' focus 63 Boutiques 4 State Farm 39 Tire pressure 64 "Little" car in a competitor measure: Abbr. 1964 top 10 hit 9 French artist 40 Varnish 65 Bridle straps Edgar ingredient 66 Competitive, as 14 From Z a personality
41 The "E" of 15 Start of a EGBDF 67 Mind-reading weightlifting ability, for short 
42 Sponsorship

maneuver 
44 "We Know

16 _Gay 
DOWN
Drama" cable 

(W.W. II plane) 
channel 1 Low voice 

17Wail 
45 Actress Ward 2 Sitting on 

18 1994 John 
3 British leader
46 British guns

Travolta film 
from whom the
47 McDonald's

20 Unordinary 
"bobbies" got 
arches, e.g.

22 Mended, as their name socks 48 Place 
4 Former defense 23 Litter's littlest 50 Bridge guru secretary Les 
24 Boob tube, in Sharif 
5 Line that Britain 52 Friend of Betty 
extends for 26 Damon of "Good and Veronica, in 24,902 miles Will Hunting" the comics 
6 1960's-80's 28 03 55 Wine server rock group 30 Suffix with 58 "Queen of Jethro Oktober Hearts" vocalist, 7 Short snooze 34 Swiss peak 1981 8 Fed. law 35 Mouse catchers 61 Neither's partner enforcement org. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Toy race car adornment 10 Price to participate 11 Enter 12 Skin cream additive 
--··~W~~[t!J~UW~ 13 Hourglass fill 
~ 19 Doing nothing 
ttn~~llittJ]~~~:t1t!J.I 21 Last word from 
a director _..-::+.,..+.,.-~ 24 Tournament favorite -=t,-+:-fi!I!IIIPI!I-:-+.;;+=+::-l 25 Coast Guard rank -:-+-;-;+;+:-t-::+.::t=+-=:-1~ 26 Pub buddies ........__.__..;,.a.;.....L...;;..~,..;;;....L.;;;..J~ 27 Tylenol rival 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

Make cheeks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enelosed is $100 for one a<~ademic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name---------------------­
Address ____________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip.________ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HoRoscoPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON 'HilS I>AY: Jennifer Jason Leigh, 44; Christopher Guest, 58; Barbara Hershey, 58; Roger Stauhad1, 64 
Happy Birthday: You will have several chokes this year ami, if you arc honest with yourself, you will excel. Don·t become sidetracked into thinking you can make fast ca~l1. Don't make things harder on yourself hy looking for the easy way out. It will only slow you down and push you in the wrong direction. Your numhers arc 6, 19,23,28,33,45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You've hccn working hard for a long time and need to start reaping the rewards he fore you get discouraged. Do something nice for . yourself. Give your work a creative twist. It's time to shake things up a little.*** TAURUS (Apri120-May 20': Get on with the things that exdte you. Love is looking hot so spend time with someone who rocks your world. You may feel like helping others hut, ht•fore you do, make sure that you aren't being taken advantage of.*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Stop trying so hard to please everyone around you; start pleasing yourself. You can make some interesting assessments regarding your work and your future. Set the wheels in motion and you will sec how 4uickly you can reach your goals. *** CANCER (.June 21-July 22): An opportunity tn travel or to do smncthing with someone who is 4uite different from you will he to your advantage. You won·t have to ovcr~pend to do what you want. Be inventive and you will teach <lthcrs how to have fun. **** 
LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Stop trying to impress othen.. There is no point worrying about what others think or do. Look at the big picture and sec what you have to do to make the best of the situation vou arc in. Now is not the lime to make itntional changt.•s. ** · VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Travel or educational pursuits should he nn your mind. Check out the possibility of taking a trip for enjoyment and lcaming. A partnership is looking good. *** ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): This can be a fabulous day if you imeract with fril·nd~. Socializing willlwing about some fascinating ideas that can he implemented inln a projt·ct. Don't be afraid to make some changes to your home. *** SCORJ>J() (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 l: Dnn't he too 4uick to try to solve a personal prnhlem. Wait until you have had timt· to think things through. It may be your own jealousy or desires that are causing the problem in the tirst place. ••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can mum on fril•nds and relatives to help you out if you need it today. Make some adjustments to your living arrangements and you will be much happier about the conditions you arc living under. Believe in yourself. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): If you arc experiencing professional prohlcm,, consider altemalives. You can make some personal improvements that will help tn build up your confidence. If you arc happy with who you arc, you'll attract new friends or lovers. ***** AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feh. 18): You'll want to he in control hut that could easily hackfire on you today. Going it alone c·an hring about the he~l rt·suh~. Rely on yourself and you will not he Jet down. Give others the same hencfit of the douht. •• PISCES (Feb. 19-Marrh 20): Panner~hips will dominate your day. Whetlwr you arc considering one or involved in one you should he able to come out on top. Money can be made and deals formulated. You will he lut·ky in love and fortunate where investments are concerned. **** Birthday Baby: You arc thorough, prct·isc and very mcthndkal in linancial matters. You are inventive. quick to make a move and adapt well to change. Ynu will go In great lrngths to get your way. 
Eugenia's Web sitt.~s: aslrvadvice.comfor ftm, eugenia/a.\"l.comfor cmifidt•nrial consultations 

29 Mexican revolutionary Emiliano 
31 City neighboring Newark, N.J. 
32 Bee injury 
33 Kemo Sabe's sidekick 
35 "_ kin~dom come ... 
36 Some S.A.T. takers 38 Refuse holder 43 Heavy hydrogen, e.g. 46 Witnessed 47 Perry Mason's profession 49 Stadium levels 51 High-1.0. set 
52 Open slightly 53 Govern 54 Commercial 
prefix with bank 55 "Halt!" 56 Goes bad 57 Plunge 59 Guinness Book 
suffix 60 "How come?'' 

For answers, call 1-900-2855555555-5656, $1.20 a minute; 
or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
-------------------~-----------------------------------------------------­
r 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, February 6, 2006 
page 20 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Falling into place 
Irish thump visiting Providence 66-48 for their second straight win 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 

Megan DullY took her seat next to the coaches on the Irish bench Saturday with 7:12 remaining in Notre Dame's 66-48 victory over Providence, an indication the Irish finally had an easy win under their belts. 
"It was nice to get a break," said Duffy, who played just 29 minutes in the contest after aver­aging 38.5 minutes in the team's first 20 games. It was her lowest total minutes since Dec. 17, when she played just 26 minutes in Notre Dame's rout of' Arkansas State in the Duel in the Desert. 
The senior guard had 12 points and eight rebounds Saturday, but her outlet passing in transition and six assists were keys to the Irish victory. 
"I was really pleased with our transition game," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said after the game. "The guards were doing a really good job running the floor, so it was easy." 
A lot of things seemed easy for the Irish against Providence, including Notre Dame's ability to shut down Friars star Gayle Nwafili. The 6-foot-1 center shot just 2-of-14 from the floor and 
see FRIARS/page 18 


fd 
Irish guard Tulyah Gaines drives to the basket during Notre Dame's 6648 victory over Providence Saturday at the Joyce Center. 
It was almost out of a movie. 
With 2:34 left in the already decided game Saturday, the home fans began making their demands. Starting in the sec­tions imme­diately behind the bench, a "We Want Tsipis" chant­referring to little-used sophomore guard Amanda Tsipis­began to come from the 6,800 in attendance, and the chant soon turned to a loud ovation as Tsipis jogged over to the scor­er's table, checking in to just her fifth game of the season. 
It was that kind of game for the Irish, a game where they could worry about making sure all 10 members of the team saw playing time rather than trying to erase a major deficit or just hold on for a win, as was the theme of their January. 
For the first time in a long time, Notre Dame played a complete 40 minutes, doing 

Eric Retter 
Sports Writer 
see RETTER/ page 18 
HOCKEY 
Spartans take t-wo contests 
Team drops a pair of one-goal battles 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
In a weekend that may turn out to be crucial in its quest for home ice in the CCHA playoffs, Notre Dame was swept 3-2 and 2-1 by No. 14 Michigan State in a home-and-home series Friday and Saturday. 
The Irish, who fell to 9-16­3 over all and 7-12-3 in the CCHA, currently reside in a three-way tie for ninth in the 12-team league. They are five points out of eighth place, which would earn Notre Dame a first round CCHA playoff game at the Joyce Center March 3. 
That goal took a major hit over the weekend, however, with two losses to the Spartans, who stifled the Irish with aggressive defense in both games. 
"They play a really good defensive style," Notre Dame 
see SPARTANS/page 17 
FENCING 

Team records sweep at Ohio State co111petition 
Irish boast 23-1 mark overall on the season 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sporrs Writer 

The Irish found little difficulty in improving their record to 23-1 on the season as both the men's and women's teams fmished with 5-0 records at the Ohio State Duals on Saturday. 
"Going into it we thought we were going to do really well," jun­ior sabre Erin Housing said. "We have been practicing really hard, and :-;ve prepared for it really well. 
The No. 2-ranked men topped regional rivals Purdue (26-1), Michigan State (24-3) and Michigan 20-7. The other two wins came against Case (24-3) and Indiana (22-5). 
"I found trouble against Michigan State, because I under­estimated them," Housing said. "I defmitely made mistakes I should­n't have, because they have a strong team and are competitive." 
Highlights came from junior epeeist Patrick Gettings (13-1) and sophomore captain Greg Howard (5-0). Howard improved his season record to 35-6. 
In the sabre competition, senior Nicholas Diacous finished 6-1 and freshman Bill Thanhouser came out 6-0. Diacous now stands at 20-8 for the season and Thanhouser is 27-9 for the Irish. Thanhouser did not compete in last weekend's Notre Dame Duals 
see DUALS/page 17 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish lose in heartbreaker 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Louisville guard Taquan Dean sank a 3-point buzzer beater at the end of regula­tion Saturday afternoon at Freedom Hall, sending the game to overtime tied at 80 and evoking a collective response on the Notre Dame bench that said, "Oh, no. Not again." 
Irish senior Chris Murphy pulled his warm-up jersey over his face in disbelief as Dean's shot fell, and the Cardinals (15-7, 3-6 Big East) went on to win 89-86 in the extra period, handing the Irish (1 0-10, 1-8) their ninth loss by six points or fewer this season. 
Notre Dame guard Chris 
see OVERTIME/page 18 



SMC BASKETBAll 
ME~'S TE~N~S 
TRACK and FIElD 

~~u 
SUPER BOWl XL NBA
LLI 
Junior Maryann
(.) Calvin 76 Duke 4 Canadians 5 Steelers 21 Houston 93 

Erigha set a Notre Dame 
z Saint Mary's 64 Notre Dame 3 Flyers 0 Seahawks 10 New York 89 

record in the 60-meter
The Belles fell behind 

The Irish fell to the Montreal goaltender Former Irish running Houston forward
::5 
dash at the 19th Meyo
= 
early and never recov-

No. 9 Blue Devils Cristobal Huet picked 
back Jerome Bettis and 
Tracy McGrady scored ered in a home loss to 
Invitational.

Sunday at the Sheffield up his second-straight Pittsburgh beat Seattle 
23 points to lead the
cc 
conference foe Calvin. 

Indoor Tennis Center. 
shutout in the win. 
in Super Bowl XL. 
Rockets over the host 
Knicks.
!;: 

Cf.) page 16 page 16 page 12page 16 page 13 page 12 










