
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 124 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19,2006 
ND ranked high for Hispanic students 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
Associate News Editor 
A premier Hispanic American magazine ranked Notre Dame No. 13 on its 2006 listing of the "Top 25 Colleges for Latinos" 
the fourth time the University has achieved a berth on the rankings since their debut in 1999. 
Hispanic Magazine's March issue featured the ranking, which is based upon each school's academic excellence, student-to-faculty ratio, per­centages of Hispanic faculty and students, cultural pta­grams and availability of finan­cial aid, among other factors. 
University President Father 

SMCgives honorary diplo111as 
Philanthropist, judges top list of recipients 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Longtime philanthropist MaryAnn Mathile and renowned judges Denise Cote and Ann Claire Williams comprise the 2006 recipient pool of Saint Mary's honorary degrees, which will be awarded during the College's May 20 commencement ceremony. 
Executive Assistant to the President Susan Dampeer said the recipients are a "great group of amazing women" who serve as examples for what she hopes Saint Mary's students can become. 
"Not only have each of these women reached a pinnacle of perfecting their careers, they are really committed to serve and understand the needs of our pop­ulation," Dampeer said. 
Mathile, a generous philanthro­pist from Dayton, Ohio, has focused her efforts on the Mathile Family Foundation, which was established in 1989 to give hope and change in the lives of needy children and families. Today the Foundation benefits Mercy Manor, Womanline and Catholic Social Services of the Miami Valley. 
Dampeer said Mathile -who specializes in hands-on volunteer work offered up to God -is an "extraordinarily generous woman who has a deep love for the College." Mathile's admiration for the College grew from her daugh­ter's positive experiences while attending Saint Mary's, Dampeer said. 
Cote, a 1968 Saint Mary's 
see DEGREES/page 6 

John J enkiri.s noted Notre 
Dame's strong appeal to 
Hispanics in his .Oct. 11 
address to the faculty. Jenkins 
said that compared to other top 
20 universities, Notre Dame 
has had better-than-average 
growth in Hispanic faculty and 
student body. 
Assistant Provost for 
Admissions Dan Saracino said 
such growth is promising, but 
in itself insufficient. 
"[Growth) should be excel­lent," he said. "And we're not there yet. Notre Dame, as an outstanding Catholic university, ·should be a great place for Hispanic scholars and students whose faith is important to 
them." 
Hispanic students currently 
comprise nine percent of the undergraduate student body, and Saracino said the Office of Admissions hopes 11 percent of the incoming freshman class will be Hispanic. The recent admissions decisions resulted in the acceptance of 443 of the 1,199 Hispanic applicants, he said. 
The Office of Admissions employs counselors to work specifically with underrepre­sented ethnic minority stu­dents, including Hispanic, African-American, Asian­American and Native American students. Saracino noted the special need to improve recruitment of African­American, Asian-American and Native American students. 

"I believe we can still be suc­cessful in recruiting [these stu­dents]," he said. "We just need to work harder." 
Notre Dame's Catholic affilia­tion gives Hispanics a "natural affinity" to the University, Saracino said. He added that though fewer African­American and Asian-American families are specifically Catholic, Notre Dame can still reach out to the religious nature of many of these fami­lies. 
Saracino said Notre Dame's appeal to Hispanic applicants . has increased significantly over the past 10 years. He noted the increasing number of 
see LATINOS/page 6 


Braun named leprechaun 
By KATHLEEN MCDONNELL 
News Writer 

As the Notre Dame community antici­pates this weekend's Blue-Gold game, junior Kevin Braun has special reason to get pumped. Braun was selected as the newest Gold squad leprechaun April 7 and will appear on the Irish sidelines next season. 
Those students setting sites on carrying the luck of the Irish to athletic teams must endure a rigorous try-out process. Clinics began March 28, and after trim­ming the original field of 11, six lep­rechaun prospects performed in front of judges April 7. 
Judges ranged from head cheerleading coach, Jonette Minton, to representativ.es from the athletic directors office, academ­
see BRAUN/page 6 

Turtle Creek ovvners 
remodel apartments 


residents. 

Management at the com­plex across the street from campus says the apart­ments will undergo a total makeover this summer. Kitchens, bathrooms, unit interiors, floors, common areas and lighting will be redone and replaced in all 
see CREEK/page 6 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER 
News Writer 
The stone turtles will remain, but after renova­tions at Turtle Creek Apartments are completed, there will be many other major exterior and interior changes -part of an effort to improve the quality of life at the complex for all 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 



Former professor dies at81 
Leader taught art classes to thousands of students 
By MADDIE HANNA 
News Writer 
Robert A. Leader, a profes­sor emeritus of art, art history and design who taught thou­sands of students during his 30 years at Notre Dame, died April 11. He 
was 81. 
Leader suf­fered from an "extended illness" dur­ing the last year of his life, said sculpture 


p r o f e s s o r Leader Father James Flanigan, who took Leader's classes as an under­graduate. 
After joining the faculty, Flanigan grew to know Leader on another level -as a col­league and friend. 
"He was a man filled with faith and a passion for teach­ing," Flanigan said. "A lover of students [of) which he had many, many, many." 
Leader taught at Notre Dame from 1955 to 1985 -a career that spanned four decades and several genera­tions of students, said Dennis 
see LEADER/page 4 

CLAP vvill hold fofUlll to discuss living wage 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 

As part of their ongoing pursuit of a living wage for campus workers, members of the Campus Labor Action Project (CLAP) will hold a forum tonight to discuss the economic benefits of increas­ing the hourly pay for work­ers on campus. 
The forum, at 8 p.m. in the Montgomery Room of LaFortune, will feature eco~ nomics professor Teresa Ghilarducci, who will speak on the economic feasibility of the University paying its employees a living wage -a practice Harvard, Georgetown and Stanford have already started. 
"[The forum] will focus on how [the living wage] makes economic sense, both for workers and for employers 
and how economic research backs up the need for a living wage especially here at Notre Dame," CLAP lead organizer Kamaria Porter said Tuesday. 
Porter said members of CLAP and perhaps campus workers themselves will also speak at the forum. 
"Our goal is to gain some more support and continue to persuade the University to consider adjusting the living wage," she said. 
On March 8, CLAP members delivered an 11-page report to top University administra­tors that called for Notre Dame to implement a $12.10 hourly wage for workers. The report also asked for the cre­ation of a joint task force ­made up of campus workers, students, administrators and possibly alumni -that would examine the issue from all 
see CLAP/page 4 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, April 19, 2006 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Countdovvn 
At the b1~ginning of this baseball sea­
son. tlw only thing people were munting 
was how many days it would take Barry 

Bonds to pass Bal)(' Huth and, eventually, 
hrPak I lank Aamn's fl'l'ord tbr ean~er 
honw runs. 
Two weeks into Greg Arbogast 
the season, it hw; 
bnl·ome dear that 
Sporls Writer 
Bonds has about as 
mud1 chance of 
lmmking Aaron's horne run mmrd as 
Mischa Barton dons ol' cracking trip II~ 
digiL'> on the scalP. 

I think it's time li1r b<L'ieball enthusia'iL'i 
to start a nnw countdown: I low long 
until tlw dimactie rnon11mt when Barry 
Bonds linally snaps'? The moment when 
the st1~roid allegations. tlw gradual 
depn~dation of his body and even tho 
occasional syringe just push Bonds over 
tho Nlge. And rnst <L'istm~d. when it hap­

pens, it will be a moment that goes down 
in sporting history. Think of Mike Tyson 
biting Evandnr llolylield in the ear, and 
now put that moment on steroids (I'm 
sorry, I couldn't resist). That will be 
Barry Bonds at some point this summer. 

Now, it's possible that some of you arc among the select li~w who have heard the rumors lloating around that Bonds used steroids during his remarkable dimb up the all-time home run stand­ings. Apparently, those rumors caught on because they eaused Major League B<L'ieball to start investigating steroid usc among iL'> players. This, in and of'iL'ielf, probably didn't botlwr Bonds too mueh. Even if lw did, lot's just say in a hypo­tlwtkal s1mse. take steroids. he knew that Major Lea).,tun B<L'ieball's investiga­tion of his steroid usn would probably drag on only to n~sult in an ineondusive and unsatisfying eondusion. 
But then Bonds went and gut himself in trouble with the government. Just last week, allegations surliu:nd that Bonds is to then per:jury charges for lying under oath to a grand jury in 2003 when he said lw unknowingly took storoids. Unli1rtunately f(,r Bonds, this perjury trial coincides with the relea<>n of 'Game of Shadows,' whkh is b<L<>ieally a docu­mentary proving that Bonds h<L'> know­ingly t.aknn enough steroids over the past eight years to kill a small horse. If rumors of his use of steroids wemn 't enough to stress Barry out, maybe the thought of 20 years in jail is. 
Arm~rica ha'> never liked Barry Bonds, but tho animosity towards Bonds wa'i reaching new heighL'>. So Bonds did what any logical person in his plaen would have done: lie made a reality tele­vision show. 
Oh, you haven't watehed an episode of 'Bonds on Bonds' yet'? Don't worry, nei­ther ha'> the rest of Ameriea. Apparently, people arnn 't interested in watching Bonds try to explain why he's a vietim of the systmn while he's sitting in the eom­lilrt of his privatn jet. 
A'i li1r that whole horne run eha<>e thing, Bronson Arroyo and Mark Mulder eurrnntly have more home runs than Bonds. Oh, I almost forgot. Bonds also h<L'> 10-12 bonn ehips lloating around in his elbow. 
To review the eurrent state of Barry Bonds' lili~. facing possible jail time, 1:hm:k. Anti-sentiment of publie at an all­time high. cheek. No ehance of brnaking I lank Aaron's home run record, cheek. Let the countdown begin. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at 
garbogas@nd. edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due ro a reponing error, in the April 13 edition of The ( lbserver, in the aniclc "Red Rose Gala pur at forefront of meeting," ir was stated that the Graduate Student Union made a donation of $375 as a $5 subsidy !i>r 75 rickets to the Red Rose Gala. They in !act made a donation of $500, as a $10 sub­sidy !i>r SO tickets. In rhe same article, as clarifica­tion, the purpose of rhe amendment was to codifY the selection process for committee chairs and pro­vide recourse for their removal by rhc GSU Council. The Observer regrets these errors. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: ARE YOU MOVING OFF CAMPUS NEXT YEAR? 



Matt Houser Daniel Smith Marissa Najera 
junior senior sophomore Alumni Keenan Lyons 
"Yes, because ''I'm being "No, but I will it's gonna be forced off senior year. " wicked fun. " campus 
because I'm graduating. " 



Kelly Pohutski Jim Bochnowskl Bruce Hill 
sophomore sophomore sophomore Lyons Fisher Fisher 
"Rome in the "No, because I "Yeah, I have so fall, but back to love parietals many felonies, 
Lyons in the spring. 


PHIL HUDELSON/Observer 
Fisher Resident Assistant, Jordan Carrel, left, and future RA Carlin Hebert help run the dorm's room picks Tuesday night by marking the rooms already chosen on a blown-up floor plan of Fisher. 
OFFBEAT 

"I was amazed that it had­n't changed at all," he said. 
Nesta's two aunts sent him the fruitcake in November 1962 while he was stationed in Alaska with tl1e Army. 
"I opened it up and didn't know what to do with it," Nesta said. "I sure wasn't going to eat it, and I liked my fellow soldiers too much to share it with them." 
As best he can remember, he packed the cake with the rest of his belongings and shipped it home to Waukesha when he left the military a few years later. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Man hits 100-pound mark 
IDAHO FALLS, Idaho -A 5-foot-9, 22-year-old man who eats 6,500 calories a day -two and a half times the average intake for an adult male -has earned a special rnward for breaking the 1 DO­pound mark: 
Dinner out from his mom. 
''I'm a medical mystery," said Matt Chaffee, who weighed in at 101 pounds on Saturday. ''I've accepted it." 
Chaffee, who has a 26-ineh waist, had several health problems a<; a newborn. One of them, pyloric stenosis: pre­vents food from emptying out of the stomach. The condition and ulcers he developed in his esophagus reduced his ability to gain weight. 

Since turning 18 his goal has been to go over 100 pounds. He achieved tllat on a diet that included 5,000 calories a day in protein shakes. 
Fruitcake rediscovered in attic after 40 years 
WAUKESHA, Wis. -Lance Nesta did what many people do when receiving a fruit­cake -he set it aside, only to rediscover it more than 40 years later in his mother's attic. Nesta couldn't resist taking a peek at the cake, still in its original tin and wrapped in paper. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 0: 
1.&.1 
:::E: 
~ 
1.&.1 
3: 
...I 
<
0 
0 
...J 
,• 


70 50 

60 50 


60 42 


60 42 
and hate SBPD i.<; kicking alcohol." me back on campus. " 
IN BRIEF 
The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures is hosting a lec­ture called "Verdad de las Men tiras I Verdad de las Verdades," or "Truth of Lies I Truth of Truths," delivered by renowned Chilean author Jorge Edwards. It will take plaee at 5 p.m. today in the Hare Books and Special Collections section of the Hesburgh Library. 
The Irish women's softball team takes on Toledo tonight at 5 p.m. at Ivy Field. 
ND for Animals is organiz­ing a vegetarian dinner in the ·LaFortune Ballroom tonight from 6:30 to 8 p.m. 
The  event is free,  but there  
is  a  suggested donation of  
$3.  

The Irish men's baseball team is playing IPFW (Indiana/Purdue, Ft. Wayne) tonight at 5:05 p.m. in Frank Eck Stadium. 
"Exiles," a French and Arabic language film with English subtitles, is showing Thursday at 7 p.m. and 10 
p.m. in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for all stu­dents, and can be purchased by calling 1-2800. 
The SUB Movie of the Week, "King Kong," is show­ing in DeBartolo 101 at 10 
p.m. on Thursday, 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. on Friday and 4:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. on Saturday. Tickets are $3. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


54 
40 

HIGH LOW 

Wednesday, April 19, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Tw-o professors natned Guggenheitn fellow-s 
author of three volumes of from as far away as Brussels. the final decisions. 
By JOE PIARULLI 
essays and two books -"The [I heard from] a former stu­Douthwaite said she had News Writer 
Wild Girl, Natural Man, and dent in Switzerland." applied for similar grants the Monster" and "Exotic Douthwaite was the only before, and has become 
Two Notre Dame faculty Women: Literary Heroines person to be somewhat members are among the 187 and Cultural Strategies in given a fellow­accustomed to professionals receiving a Ancien Regime France." ship to work in "I think that's the the procedure. Guggenheim Fellowship Douthwaite is currently the field of main interest ... to "It's a process Award this year, the John working on "A Literary French litera­that you learn
be part ofan
S i m o n 
History of the French ture. She said when you're a Guggenheim Revolution." She holds a Ph. the fellowship international young scholar. Memorial D. from Princeton University will support a dialogue ofscholars It's a hard Foundation and focuses her work on year of leave process, it's a
and to help move
announced 18th-and early 19th-century beginning in good process," April 6. French literature and the January 2007 knowledge forward." she said. 
J u I i a French Revolution. during which The process Douthwaite, "It's a very great honor. I she will work asks applicants
Julia Douthwaite 
assistant applied for grants last fall on her new to think about

award recipient
provost for and never thought I would book. their futures internation-Cobb actually get this one because While she and ·explain al studies it's the most prestigious," she isn't completely sure why she why their work is worth sup­and French professor, and said. was chosen, she said her porting, Douthwaite said. Paul Cobb, fellow of the Last Sunday, the New York project is worthwhile. "It has to be a very particu­Medieval Institute and associ­Times featured a full-page ad "I think that my project is lar, very specific proposal," ate history professor, were paid for by the Foundation interesting and original she said. "It makes you focus chosen out of a pool of honoring the winners. In because it has never been and make concrete the proj­300,000 applicants. The mon­addition, all the d o n e , " ect that maybe you just had e t a r y 
fellows have Douthwaite in your head." awards for been invited to "I think that my said. "''m plan­According to Douthwaite, the 187 attend a cocktail project is ning to unearth one of the best things about artists, party at the and analyze, in the Guggenheim Fellowship
interesting and

scholars Guggenheim a historical con­will be that it will afford her
original because it 

and scien­Foundation in text, fiction pub­a great deal of independence. tists total early May where has never been lished during · "Freedom to think and to $7,500,000. they will be pub­the French write and to research what
done." 

Paul Cobb licly honored. Revolution, you're interested in, and to is the Though Douth­between 1789 be part of an ongoing dia­author of Douthwaite waite said she Julia Douthwaite and 1799." logue about the topic that you "Usama ibn couldn't attend award recipient The selection find of interest. I think that's Munqidh: Warrior Poet of the the party, she process for the the main interest ... to be Age of Crusade," an historical has still been fellowships calls part of an international dia­biography of a Syrian hero. getting quite a bit of atten­for a proposal, bibliography logue of scholars and to help Cobb specializes in Islamic tion. and a career narrative. Those move knowledge forward," history. He was not available "I've been getting letters who make it through the first she said. for an interview with The from around the world actu­round will then need four Observer Tuesday. ally," she said. "Colleagues recommendations, and the Contact Joe Piarulli at 
Julia Douthwaite is the have been hearing about this Committee of Selection makes jpiarull@nd.edu 


WAKE UP THE ECHOES 
www.rocknebookmark.com 
Knute Rockne 75th Anniversary Commemorative Bookmark 
This bookmark is an exact replica of the actual prayer card distributed at Coach Rockne's Funeral. 
*Must BUY for Alumni, Family, and Friends *Lifetime Keepsake *Buy before you leave for summer vacation *Have it shipped home or o your dorm *Made in the U.S.A. 


J&K Card, LLC 



Business center to give funds 
Special to The Observer 
More than $24,000 in prize money will be awarded April 19 to 21 in two business plan competitions organized by the Gigot Center for Entrepreneur-ial Studies at Notre Dame. 
Winners in the McCloskey Notre Dame Business Plan Competition and the Notre Dame Social Venture Plan Competition will be announced at the McCloskey competition final event from 1:30 to 4:00 
p.m. on April 21 in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
The sixth annual McCloskey event will feature five finalists vying for a first-place prize of $15,000. In addition, the McCloskey finalists, other McCloskey award winners, and the winner of the Social Venture competition will make presentations to the audience, which will vote to determine the winner of the $3,000 Pace Global People's Choice Award. 
The fifth annual Social Venture event will feature five finalists with socially-oriented business plans competing for prize money of more than $5,000. The competition is co­sponsored by the Master of Nonprofit Administration pro­gram in Mendoza. 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 19, 2006 
~~~~~~~~~~~============~~~~~~~ 


Leader 
continued from page 1 
J>oordan, chair of the art, art history and design depart­ment. 

"His career at Notre Dame demonstrates the importance of the visual arts to complete a liberal arts education," Doordan said. "Hobert Leader is an excellent example of how a particular area [of study) like the arts con­tributes to the larger goal or mission of the University." 
While Leader taught various art studio classes at the University, Flanigan said his most memorable course was Art Traditions, an introduc­tion to world art that enrolled more than 300 students in each section. 
And Leader taught not one, but two sections per semester. 

"It was his charisma and abilities as a lecturer that drove that course," art histo­ry professor Charles Rosenberg said. "He took on an enormous amount of work. He had no graduate assis­tants, he graded every exam himself ... 
"He touched the lives of thousands, literally thou­sands, of Notre Dame stu­dents." 
Hosenberg came to teach at Notre Dame in 1981, when 
CLAP 
continued from page 1 
sides. 
Ghilarducci will focus her talk on two main goals of that report -the implemen­tation of the living wage and the creation of a union neu­
trality clause, which is  an  
open  statement  by  an  
employer that promises  no  

retaliation should workers deeide to organize. 
CLAP members met with University President Father .John Jenkins and other University administrators to discuss tlwir report on March 31, where they were told the living wage issue is between the University and its work­ers -not students, Porter said. 



Write News. Call 1-5232. 
Leader was a senior faculty influence through the testi­member. mony of former students. At his core, Leader was an "When alumni come back ... artist, Rosenberg said. they will often tell me the 
"He wasn't really an art his­professor they remember was torian," Hosenberg said. "He Robert Leade~" Doordan was a painter who had this said. profound knowledge of the Leader was born May 26, history of art and ... had a 1924, in Cambridge, Mass. He wonderful way of communi­left the Museum of Fine Arts cating that." in Boston to serve in the 
Skilled at Marines during stained glass art, World War II, Leader created "He touched the but later works for church­received
lives ofthousands,
es across the degrees in art Midwest, includ­from Yale
literally thousands, ing the Sorin, ofNotre Dame University and Alumni and the University
students."
Keenan/Stanford of Illinois, chapels at Notre according to a Dame. Charles Rosenberg statement "He used to say art history professor released by the 
he'd done enough stain[ed] glass for churches to reach from South Bend to Minneapolis," Flanigan said. 
But while stained glass was Leader's "livelihood," painting was his true passion, Flanigan said. 
One of his works, "The Fall of Icarus," is featured on the 14th floor of the Hesburgh Library. 
His works may be scattered around campus, but the impact Leader left on the University community extends far beyond art. Doordan, who came to Notre Dame shortly after Leader retired, said he grew to understand Leader's 
"Their position is that the to be raised because people University already pays a fair are working two jobs and are wage and they see benefits living in poverty and we can't as wages," stand by and Porter said. let that hap­"[Administrators pen." believe] the stu­Members of dents don't have "We're trying to CLAP are a place in this scheduled to
create a new space
discussion meet with 
so that workers can
because there Jenkins' exec­are already have a voice through utive assis­structures that tant Frances
this task force. " 
deal with work­Shavers on er issues." Friday for a 
Porter said the Kamaria Porter follow-up administration's CLAP lead organizer meeting. response did not "We are discourage her going to con­group's resolve . tinue on this 
"Our position issue," Porter is that these structures have said. "It is not closed for us, failed ... We're trying to cre­not even by a little bit." ate a new space so that workers can have a voice through this task force," Contact Mary Kate Malone at Porter said. "The issue needs mmalone3@nd.edu 
Undergraduate
Engagement 
and 
Creative Endeavors 
Come hear Notre Dame undergraduates present the results of their scholarly inquiry 
I Dept. of Biological Sciences I 
Undergraduate Research Symposium 
283 Galvin, 7-9 PM, Thur., April 20 
Dept. of Political Science 
Senior Thesis Awards 
Hesburgh Auditorium, 4-5 PM, Thur., April 20 

University. 
After marry­ing Dorothy Riehl on Sept. 1, 1949, Leader had four sons and a daughter. He taught for two years at Clarke College in Dubuque, Iowa before coming to Notre Dame. 
A Mass was held for Leader in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Tuesday morning. 
"That, in a way, is evidence of what a contribution he made to Notre Dame," Doordan said. 
Mary Kate Malone 
contributed to this report. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

Creek 
continued from page 1 
units, Turtle Creek community manager Tammie Schmuhl said. Other interior changes detailed on the apartment complex's Web site included the remodeling of cabinets in the units, and the addition of new carpeting and fresh coats of paint in common area hall­ways. There will also be many . exterior modifications ranging from painting the buildings, replacing exterior doors, changing the signage throughout the complex, land­scaping improvement and new grills and picnic tables around the pool area. 
Schmuhl said the changes are part of a long-term plan created by AIMCO University Communities after the compa­ny purchased the property in 2004. 
"Remodeling is something we do whenever we purchase a property, basically to make it a better place to live," she said. 
Renovations at Turtle Creek began last year with costs totaling $580,000, and will be continued throughout 2006, Schmuhl said. She said the total cost of revamping the complex will be $1,164,000 when the work is completed. However, the cost of redoing Turtle Creek will not affect rental rates for next year, she said, because the rates have already been set. 
"We're just trying to improve the property," she said, "At this point we want to make it the best it can be for everyone that lives here." 
Due to its close proximity to Notre Dame's. campus, Turtle Creek has traditionally been a popular option for off-campus living among students. Schmuhl said she "certainly hopes" students continue to consider Turtle Creek "the best place in South Bend to live" after the renovations are completed, due to its close­ness to campus and the vari­ous amenities the complex offers its tenants, she said. 
"Students deserve the best of everything and that's what they're going to get," she said. 
Since many of the residents at Turtle Creek are students, the complex has become known for having a strong social life -a factor that attracts some students to Turtle Creek while causing others to avoid it. 
Saint Mary's junior Meggie Wehmer said she considered living at Turtle Creek because it has a reputation for being "a fun place to live where there is always something going on socially." However, she said after taking into account various options she chose to rent a house with several of her girlfriends. 
"I decided to live in a house because I wanted something that would be more quiet," she said. "It gives me the chance to live with my friends in a house, who knows when and if I will get to do that again." 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
·····•·•···· Otfll~"~,
R£. E''' ~~~~~ 
• • • ~,1) I)~
I)~ 




Testing $ 
l~~~~~oJ 



ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, April 19, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE. SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Tourist bus plunges off cliff, 57 dead 
VERACRUZ, Mexico -An overcrowded bus speeding home from a religious festival veered off a highway emergency ramp and crashed through a metal barrier, plunging more than 650 feet into a ravine. Fifty-seven people were killed, including a 13-year-old boy. 
Just three people survived Monday's plunge from the highway, considered one of the 15 most dangerous in Mexico. Two were in criti­cal condition and one, an 8-year-old girl, was stable, according to Sanatorio Escudero, the hospital in Orizaba where the injured were taken. 
Ranulfo Marquez, deputy director of civil pro­tection for Veracruz state, said the girl was conscious but had sun·ered multiple fractures. 
The bus, equipped to hold 46 passengers, was carrying 60, some of whom were stand­ing. 
Clashes break out in Sunni district 
BAGHDAD. Iraq -Clashes persisted for a second day Tuesday in a Sunni district of Baghdad between Iraqi forces and what appeared to be local militiamen who feared that Shiite death squads had infil­trated the community. 
U.S. and Iraqi troops sealed off streets to the Azamiyah district, and residents reported the area appeared quiet after clerics broadcast appeals for calm over loudspeakers from the main Sunni mosque. At least 13 people died in the two days of fighting, Iraqi officials said. 
There were conflicting reports about what triggered the clashes, which under­scored the rising tensions between Shiite and Sunni Muslim communities that threaten to plunge Iraq into civil war. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Prison mistakingly releases felons 
LANSING, Mich. -Michigan prison offi­cials have found 41 recent cases of felons accused of violating their paroles mistak­enly being released because they didn't get a hearing within 45 days of their arrest, officials said Tuesday. 
One of those released was Patrick Alan Selepak, who is now charged with killing three people after he was wrongly freed. 
Corrections Department Director Patricia Caruso told the Senate Judiciary Committee on Tuesday that systemic and individual errors led to the releases. 
NYC transit union accepts contract 
NEW YORK -Bus and subway workers who shut down the nation's largest transit system with a three-day strike in December voted Tuesday to accept the same contract they had previously reject­ed. 
Of 20,593 votes cast, 14,716 were in favor of the contract, said Roger Toussaint, president of the Transport Workers Union Local 100. 
Toussaint urged the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to accept the union's decision, though the MTA has said it wouldn't have to accept any new vote. 
The union narrowly rejected the same contract in January, and the dispute between the 33,000-member union and MTA went into binding arbitration with a state labor board in March. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Family, school district settle lawsuit 
MISHAWAKA, Ind. -A family that sued the city's school district alleging that a former teacher had inappropriately touched their then­12-year-old daughter has settled the lawsuit for $131,675 to be paid over the next 12 years. 
The girl told authorities that former Liberty Elementary teacher Mark Gardner molested her while she was at his house and during a school field trip in 2004. A St. Joseph Superior Court jury acquitted Gardner last week of two counts of child molesting. 
Duke lacrosse players arrested 
Finnerty and Seligmann face rape and kidnap charges; posted $400,000 bails 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. -Two Duke University lacrosse players were arrested early Tuesday on charges of rap­ing and kidnapping a strip­per hired to dance at an off­campus party, and the dis­trict attorney said he hopes to charge a third person soon. 
The indictments, unsealed Tuesday, did not indicate what led the grand jury Monday to indict Reade Seligmann, 20, and Collin Finnerty, 19. District Attorney Mike Nifong would not discuss the evidence. 
"It had been my hope to charge all three of the assailants at the same time, but the evidence available to me at this moment does not permit that," Nifong said. "Investigation into the identi­ty of the third assailant will continue in the hope that he can also be identified with certainty." 
Seligmann posted a $400,000 bond shortly after his arrest, and his attorney waived his court appear­ance. 
Finnerty, who posted the same amount later Tuesday, made a brief appearance in Superior Court wearing a jacket and tie. The next court appearance for both players was set for May 15. 

Both Seligmann, a 6-foot-1 be innocent," he said.The ney Robert Ekstrand, who The racially charged alle­sophomore from Essex Fells, exotic dancer, a 27 -year-old represents other players, gations have led to near N.J., and Finnerty, a 6-foot-3 black woman and mother of said neither Seligmann nor daily protest rallies at Duke. sophomore from Garden two children, told police she Finnerty were at the party The school canceled the City, N.Y. were in handcuffs was attacked March 13 by "at the relevant time." highly ranked team's season when they stepped out of a three white men in a bath­Calls to the Finnerty and and accepted the resignation police cruiser before dawn. room at an off-campus party Seligmann homes Tuesday of coach Mike Pressler after 
Seligmann is "absolutely held by the lacrosse team. morning were not immedi­the release of a vulgar and innocent," said his attorney, Bill Thomas, a defense ately returned. No one graphic e-mail that was sent Kirk Osborn. "He's doing attorney representing one of answered the door at the by a team member shortly great." Asked what led to the team captains, said Finnerty house, which sits in after the alleged assault. the indictments, Osborn Tuesday that neither a cul-de-sac of million-dollar "Many lives have been said: "Apparently it was a Seligmann nor Finnerty had homes on Long Island. A touched by this case," said photographic identification. any contact with the woman lacrosse net and equipment Duke President Richard And we all know how reli­that night. "We are ... actual­could be seen in the yard. Brodhead in a statement. "It able that is." ly shocked," he said. "We Shortly after the allega­has brought pain and suffer­
Finnerty's attorney, Bill always thought she would tions surfaced last month, ing to all involved, and it Cotter, said, "We're sur­pick out someone who at Seligmann's father, Philip deeply challenges our ability prised that anybody got least had a conversation Seligmann, spoke to The to balance judgment with indicted, quite frankly." with her or paid her." New York Times about the compassion. As the legal 
"The next jury will hear Thomas said "multiple allegations involving the process unfolds, we must the entire story, which witnesses and a commercial team, saying, "It's unfortu­hope that it brings a speedy includes our evidence, and transaction" indicated one of nate, but it will all be resolution and that the truth we're confident that these the charged players wasn't resolved positively very of the events is fully clari­young men will be found to at the party. Defense attor-shortly." fied." 

ARUBA 

Teen being held in Holloway case 
narcotics," the prosecutor's office said asked the court for permission to hold 
Associated Press 

in a brief statement. him for at least eight days while they 
ORANJESTAD -A19-year-old Dutch The prosecutor's office had not previ­continue their investigation. The judge man is being held by authorities on ously disclosed why the man was held. was expected to rule on the request at suspicion of involvement in Natalee Holloway, then 18, of Mountain a closed hearing in Oranjestad, the Holloway's disappearance, the Aruban Brook, Ala., was last seen leaving a bar capital. prosecutor's office said Tuesday. with Dutch teen Joran van der Sloot The teen's lawyers did not immedi­
The man, identified only by his ini­and two Surinamese brothers on May ately return phone calls seeking com­tials, G.V.C., also is suspected of drug 30 -the final night of her high school ment. offenses. He was scheduled to appear graduation trip to the Dutch Caribbean The announcement by prosecutors before a judge Tuesday for the first island. The three local men were jailed that someone was being held in time since his arrest. but later released after a judge ruled Holloway's disappearance was the first 
"G.V.C. is suspected of criminal there was not enough evidence to hold major development in months in a case offenses that may be related to the dis­them. that has featured numerous false leads appearance of Miss Holloway and of Authorities arrested the 19-year-old and the arrest of seven people who offenses related to dealing in illegal man on Saturday and prosecutors have were later released. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 19, 2006 
Degrees 
continued from page I 
alumna, is a United States District .Judge who presided over the WorldCom Trial -one of thn largnst securities class action snttlements in history. She has also servnd as a judge in casns involving snx disiTimi­nation suil'i, Wall Street, police brutality and immigrant smug­gling. 
I >ampner said Cotn's succnss­ful law earner has gainnd her national attention, whieh ulti­mately draws positive attention to the high caliber of undnr­graduate education offered Saint Mary's. 
Bnfore embarking upon her law earner, Cote taught Ameriean history, black history and world history at the Convent of thn Sacrnd llnart in Manhattan. 
Williams, who will also addrnss graduates at the May 20 cernmony, serves as a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals. She was the first black woman to sit on the bnnch for the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois and the first black woman to serve on the 


Latinos 
continued from page 1 
Hispanics in the student body and surrounding com­munity, as well as the cul­tural presence shown in the campus mariachi band and weekly Spanish language Mass. 
Notre Dame's success in recruiting underrepresented minorities has also grown as a result of the University's 19<JH decision to meet 100 percent of students' finan­cial aid, Saracino said. 
"If a student is outstanding enough to gain admission ­no matter what thnir race, ethnidty or soeio-econornic background -wn can make it happen," he said. 
Gilda Hernandez, presi­dent or the campus llispanic group La Alianza, said Notre Danw's attempts to diversify its student body may lead llispanie applicants to look morn favorably upon the Univ<irsity. 
Hernandez was unsure if thn ranking itself would have a substantive impact on llispanie students, but said it might "offer ways to tend to the demands or the Latino community on earn-U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. 

All three recipients were cho­sen through the College's selec­tion process, in which candi­dates are nominated by the Board of Trustees, advisory boards of the College, faculty, staff and students. 
According to the selection process guidelines, nominees must exhibit sif:,rnificant achieve­ments marked by "recognized intellectual and personal attain­ment," "si!,'llificant contribution to the enhancement of Saint Mary's College" and "contribu­tion to other recognized organi­zations in the city, state or world." 
Nominations must be sup­ported by significant informa­tion and then pass several reviews by College eommittees bef(Jre the final decision is made by the College president. 
Dampeer said it is a "great honor" to have all three recipi­ents present at the 2006 eom­meneement ceremony. 
Each of these women show a sineere love for the College and have "done great work through­out the country," she said. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
pus." 

She said the recruitment of more Hispanic faculty members or the library's acquisition of relevant books could be a positive result of the ranking. 
All in all, Hernandez said Notre Dame's attempts to provide a positive environ­ment for Hispanic students has met with some success. 
"I think it tries to !improve the environment for Hispanic students,]" she 
said.  "It is very  much  a  
work in progress."  
She  noted  the  positive  

impact of groups like the Institute for Latino Studies, which provides education about the U.S. Latino experi­ence, and Latino Student Ministry, run through Campus Ministry. 
Notre Dame's efforts to increase diversity in its stu­dent body will continue to play a pivotal role in the University's development, Saraeino said. 
"All students benefit from 
this c1~.mmit~en~. by Notr.e Dame, he sa1d. The envi­ronment is enriched by a 
highly-gifted and diverse student body." 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle 1 @nd.edu 

·. $1 0,000 -1st Place ) 50 PLAYERS WILL CASH!! 
EXAS HOLD'EM 
Tournament -No Limit!! 
Sunday April 23... 2 pm 
at Brentwood Bingo Hall 
3900 Lincolnway West (U.S. 20) South Bend Near the Airport. Doors Open 11 :00 am $100 Buy-in (includes $25 registration fee) Limited Re-Buys Available. Food & Beverages & ATM. Organization: S.B.H. Day School License #107570 
Register Now Online: www.PokerSouthBend.com 
or Phone: (574) 251-8100 
4961bJOI 




Braun 
continued from page 1 

ic services, student activities, alumni and a former lep­rechaun. 
Each prospective leprechaun performed a sequence he designed to open the first foot­ball pep rally this fall. Candidates also acted out game situations and participated in mock media interviews. As a test of physical fitness, each hopeful also had to perform a number of traditional game push-ups -and according to Minton, not all made it. 
"This year they had to do 50, and some collapsed before fin­ishing," she said. 
The final test is a 15-minute individual interview, in which judges look to see "if the candi­date has the right heart to be the person who represents Notre Dame," Minton said. 
The leprechaun was named Notre Dame's official mascot in 1965. Before the reign of the leprechaun, a series of Irish terrier dogs nicknamed Clashmore Mike served as mascots after Knute Rockne was first presented one in 1930. 
While the dogs presided over some of Notre Dame football's days of glory, the live version of today's Fighting Irish mascot "brandishes a shillelagh and aggressively leads cheers and interacts with the crowd, sup­posedly bringing magical pow­ers and good luck to the Notre Dame team," according to the university's official athletic site. 
The candidate with the high­est number of points becomes the Gold squad leprechaun ­the familiar face at football and men's basketball games. But the second highest scorer earns the position of Blue squad leprechaun, who is responsible for cheering on women's basketball, soccer and volleyball. 
This year's Gold squad lep­rechaun is Braun, a computer scienee major residing in Dillon Hall. A Landisville, Penn. native and natural redhead standing 5-foot-9, Braun has dreamed of 'brandishing the shillelagh' since freshman year. 
"Though I've followed ND sports since I was a young boy, I've wanted to be the lep­rechaun since freshman year, when Dillon guys sitting near me in the stadium recommend­ed it," Braun said. "I've always had a penchant for going nuts during football games." 
As for this fall, Braun plans to eontinue Notre Dame tradi­tions while introducing his own twists. 
"I hope to bring baek Irish dominance inside Notre Dame Stadium, and will ineorporate the eheers and enthusiasm from past lepreehauns, while trying to add my own wrinkles and get the 'Here come the Irish' cheer echoing through the Stadium again," Braun said. 
As the end of his mock pep rally try-out segment, Braun started up the 'Here Come the Irish' chant and planted the Notre Dame flag in the center of the pit. 
He said he plans to plant the flag as the cheerleaders run out of the tunnel at the home opening Penn State game. 
Braun has been auditioning all year long, according to Minton, as he has led the Blue cheerleading squad since the fall. As for what set him apart from the competition, Minton said, "his experience helped a lot, but also his electric enthu­siasm for Notre Dame. He comes out there with this pres­ence, he knows how to teaeh people to respond, and I think he'll be awesome." 
She's also confident in his 
game voice. 

"He's also terrific on the microphone -he did a great job with that at women's bas­ketball games," Minton said. ''I've seen him candid at pep rallies, and he just picks right up." 
Equally enthused about Braun is new Blue squad lep­rechaun, Juan Muldoon. 
"Kevin Braun is an awesome guy and he has helped me learn the ropes every step of the way," Muldoon said. 
A current freshman from Siegfried Hall, Muldoon hails from Mexico City. Muldoon said support from friends and fami­ly has been crucial to his achievement. While his room­mate helped Muldoon lift weights to ensure he could squeeze in the 50th push-up, Muldoon's family offered encouragement. 
"Of eourse now they are all very excited to see the very first Mexican leprechaun don the green cap and rally the Irish on." Muldoon said. 
Measuring "a solid five feet flat (plus an inch on a good day)," as he puts it, and pos­sessing "the lucky beard and the enthusiasm of the truest leprechaun you'II ever see." Muldoon promises his heart to be Irish "through and through." 
An Irish heart is a character­istic both new leprechauns claim to possess and one that the job requires. And while being the mascot places a number of demands on an already full-time student, Braun said he feels the rewards are much greater than the costs. 
"I cannot wait to be the face of Notre Dame next year, and get chills thinking about run­ning out of the tunnel in front of 80,000 this fall," he said. 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Wednesday, April 19, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

11,268.77 +194.99

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: CoiTif>05ite Volume: 2,590 103 714 2,598,760,470.00 


fTSE IOO(l.ondon) 6,044.10 +14.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  +1.92  +0.80  42.46  
INTEL CP (INTC)  + 1.04 +0.20  19.39  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +2.89 +0.14  4.98  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  + 1.42 +0.38  27.22  
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU)  +7.62 +0.26  3.67  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.66  -0.33  49.74  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.44  +0.20  45.97  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.28  -0.14  50.64  
5-YEARNOTE  -1.06  -0.52  48.66  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  + 1.1 I  73.09  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +4.50  623.30  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  + 1.43  77.40  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  117.1300  
EURO  0.8097  
POUND  0.5609  
CANADIAN$  1.1404  



IN BRIEF 
Hfth lbird first quarter profits decline 
CINCINNATI -Fifth Third Bancorp said Tuesday that first-quarter earnings declined 10 percent from a year ago, mainly because of a decline in net interest income. 
Earnings were $363 million, or 65 cents a share, in the quarter ended March 31 compared with $405 million, or 72 cents a share, a year ago. Revenue was $1.34 billion, compared with $1.37 billion in the first quarter of 2005. 
Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial expect­ed the company to earn 64 cents per share, on rev­enue of $1.35 billion. 
Fifth Third's interest income fell 5 percent in the quarter from $759 million to $718 million. 
Fifth Third has assets of $105 billion and oper­ates more than 1,100 branches in Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, Florida, Tennessee, West Virginia, Pennsylvania and Missouri. 
Banks tend to benefit when short-term rates are low and long-term rates are high. But the yield curve, which maps interest rates from short-to longer-term, has been flat or inverted over past months. 

Johnson & Johnson earnings increase 
TRENTON, N.J. -Johnson & Johnson's first­quarter profit jumped 17 percent, mainly due to a big termination fee from its failed attempt to acquire heart-device maker Guidant Corp., while revenue was hurt by generic competition from some former blockbuster drugs. 
The world's most diversified health products maker on Tuesday reported net income grew to $3.31 billion, or $1.10 per share, from $2.84 bil­lion, or 94 cents per share, a year ago. 
The results included a termination fee, worth $622 million, or 12 cents per share, paid by Indianapolis-based Guidant after it accepted Boston Scientific Corp.'s takeover bid instead of J&J's earli­er in the quarter. Johnson & Johnson's results also included a 3-cent charge for stock options given to employees, an expense corporations must begin reporting this quarter. A year ago, J&J's stock options also amounted to 3 cents per share. 
Excluding those charges and a 1 cent-per-share charge for acquisitions, Johnson & Johnson's income would have been $2.97 billion, or 99 cents per share, for the latest quarter. That beat by a penny the consensus forecast of analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial. 

Oil prices settle at record high 
Market hits $71 per barrel despite OPEC forecast of weakening global demand 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Oil prices settled at a new high above $71 a barrel Tuesday as supply threats around the world overshadowed a new report from OPEC forecast­ing weakening global demand. 
There was no fresh cata­lyst for Tuesday's buying, but analysts said the market psy­chology would likely remain bullish until there is some resolution to a variety of geopolitical uncertainties, particularly the West's nuclear dispute with Iran and output disruptions in Nigeria. 
Global Insight oil analyst Kevin Lindemer said the slowing consumption growth and swelling inventories of crude oil in the United States would typically help pull down prices, but "all of that is getting swamped right now by Iran and Nigeria." 
Light, sweet crude for May delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange rose as high as $71.60 a barrel, sur­passing the previous intraday record of $70.85 set Aug. 30. Oil settled at $71.35, an increase of 95 cents from Monday's record closing price. 

With gasoline prices aver­aging $2.79 a gallon, U.S. motorists are shelling out $212 million per day more than a year ago, and it will take a sharp and sus­Department data. concern about the impact ris­President Bush said Tuesday tained leap in energy prices The Organization of ing interest rates would have he was "concerned" about before there are any serious Petroleum Exporting on consumer spending in the the impact this was having economic ramifications. Countries on Tuesday revised U.S., where gasoline demand on American families and "We will feel real pain at its demand-growth forecast grew at a slower rate in the small businesses. the pump before this market for 2006 to 1.42 million bar­first quarter and could 
Many economists believe tops out," said James rels a day, down from 1.46 "carry over into the second the impact of $70 oil on the Cordier, president of Liberty million barrels per day in the half of the year." country's financial engine Trading in Tampa, Fla. previous report. The cartel Oil prices are now 42 per­will not be as drastic as it Cordier predicted gasoline estimates that global crude­cent higher than last year. was last August in the after­prices could rise as high as oil demand will be slightly But with global crude oil pro­math of Hurricane Katrina. $3.50 a gallon in some parts above 84.5 million barrels duction only barely keeping The argument is that con­of the country this sununer. per day -about half a mil­up with demand, leaving a sumers have gotten accus­So far, demand for gasoline lion barrels per day lower slim margin for error if there tomed to prices at today's continues to rise, albeit at a than the current Wall Street is a prolonged supply inter­levels because they have slower pace than a year ago, consensus. ruption, experts say prices moved up gradually and that according to Energy OPEC expressed particular are likely to climb further. 

Freddie Mac to pay large settlement 
2000 and 2003 for 85 fundraisers 2002 the corporation itself gave
Associated Press 

that collected about $1.7 million for $150,000 to the Republican 
federal candidates. Much of the Governors Association. The RGA ulti­
WASHINGTON -The home loan fundraising benefited members of the mately returned the money. giant Freddie Mac has agreed to pay House Financial Services Committee, U.S. law bans federally chartered a record $3.8 million fine to settle a panel whose decisions can affect corporations such as Freddie Mac allegations it made illegal campaign Freddie Mac. from contributing to campaigns, and contributions. The fundraisers were organized by prohibits companies from using cor­
The fine announced Tuesday is by then-Freddie Mac lobbyists Robert porate resources and employees to far the biggest ever levied by the Mitchell Delk and Clark Camper, who help raise money for congressional Federal Election Commission. described them to the corporation's and presidential candidates. Because the Federal Home Loan board of directors as "political risk The fme is the commission's largest Mortgage Corporation, widely known management," the FEC said. since the FEC was created after as Freddie Mac, agreed to pay the The lobbyists told Freddie Mac offi­Watergate. The previous record was fine and stop breaking the law, the cials the fundraising effort was need­held by Audiovox, which in 2003 was FEC said it would not take further ed to help the corporation achieve its fined $849,000 in a corporate contri­action against corporate officials. lobbying goals. Delk wrote in his bution case. 
"We're hoping this will catch peo­2001 performance appraisal that The FEC opened an investigation of ple's attention," Commissioner Ellen Freddie Mac had held more than 40 Freddie Mac's fundraising after the Weintraub said, noting that cam­fundraisers for House Financial private group Public Citizen filed a paign watchdogs have often called Services Chairman Michael Oxley, R­complaint in 2003 accusing Delk, his the FEC a do-nothing agency. "You Ohio. wife Amanda, the Washington don't want to be the person who The FEC also found Freddie Mac restaurant Galileo and the political beats this fine.'' officials used staff and resources to consulting firm Epiphany Productions 
Freddie Mac was accused of illegal­raise money from company employ­of making illegal political contribu­ly using corporate resources between ees to give to candidates, and that in tions. 
page 8 The Observer + NATI 0 NAL NEWS Wednesday, April 19, 2006 
Holtnes, Cruise w-elcotne baby girl, Suri, into fatnily 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES The Tornkitten has arrived. 
Torn Cruise and Katie llolmes, the public lovebirds dubbed TornKat by the nwdia, had a baby girl Tuesday, said Cruise spokesman Arnold Hobinson. 
The baby, named Suri, weighed 7 pounds, 7 ounces and meas­ured 20 inches long, he said. 
"Both mother and daughter are doing well," Hobinson said in a prepared statement. 
The name Suri ha..o.; ilo.; origins in llebrew, meaning "princess," or in Persian, meaning "red rose," the statement said. 

The baby was born in Los Angeles but the exact location was not disclosed. 
"Yay, yay, yay," said aetress and fellow Seientologist Kirstie Alley. "Bring her over so I ean meet her." 
The news was announeed just in time for Jay Leno to pass along word during taping of his "Tonight" show monologue. 
"I just got a phone call that Tom Cruise had a baby girl about two minutes ago. No joke," Leno said. 


University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
COiofWfTTtU' ON 
GAY AHO LUItAN II~UOCNT Na:co• 

The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact. Sr. ML Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 

(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Dick Warner, CS.C., at 1-9704 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ 


Try All The Winning Varieties! 
•HOT POCKETS® 
Brand Stuffed Sandwiches 
•LEAN POCKETS<It 
Brand Stuffed Sandwiches 
•CROISSANT POCKETS® 
Brand Stuffed Sandwiches 
Our new online store features all the must-have HOT POCKETS()<) brand sandwiches gear! 


It's the first child for Holmes, 
27. Cruise, 43, has an adopted daughter and son from his mar­riage to Nieole Kidman. 
Details surrounding the birth, which was planned under the tenets of the Church of Scientology as a silent procedure, weren't diselosed. 
Scientologists believe words spoken during times of pain are recorded by the "reactive mind" and can potentially eause prob­lems for mother and baby later in life. 
A spokesman from the Church of Scientology International declined comment and referred inquiries to Cruise's publicist. 

Ironically, Suri was born the same day as Brooke Shields' newborn daughter, Grier Hammond 1-Ienchy. 
Shields and Cruise had a public spat last year after he criticized the actress for taking antidepres­sants following the birth of her first child. 
Appearing on the "Today" show, Cruise said there was no sueh thing as chemical imbal­ances that need to be corrected with drugs, and that depression could be treated with exereise and vitamins. 
About a dozen reporters and photographers stood by outside the Beverly Hills home where Cruise and I lolmes Jive. Security officers inside the compound videotapnd the journalists. 
A publicity blitz for Cruise's new movie, "Mission: Impossible III," wa..'i set to begin Wndnesday but the actor canceled all press appearances, a Paramount rnp­resentativc said. 
It was just about a year ago that Cruise's romance with Holmes became a world sensa­tion. 

WE'VE GOT THE 
TURTLE CREEK 





APARTMENTS 

tremely Close to Campus citing Renovations Inside &Out 
traordinary Rents Start At $560* 
888-278-8124 
GET GEARED UP! 
We're giving away anew J>ox 360 
Go Home...Go Wireless...Go Live! 
Office Hours: M-F : 9:00 AM-6:00 PM Saturday: 10:00 AM-5:00 PM Sunday: 1:00 PM-5:00 PM 
storage space 

*Lighted & Paved *Free Lock with Every Unit 
Worlds Most Advanced Tanning, For a Perfect Tan 4 Month Special: May through August for Notre Dame Students 
5x10... $149 + DEP 10x10...$199 + DEP 
Call 574.247.7805 

Between Notre Dame and Airport at the corner of Mayflower and Edison 


272-7653 256-9656 291-2000 271-7900 234-3001 
University Mishawaka Scottsdale Granger West Side 
Ironwood &SR 23 Grape & McKinley Ireland & Ironwood Adams & SR23 Sample & Mayflower 
----------------. 
Wednesday, April19, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Undergraduate Research in Arts and Letters: Opportunities for Students 
Thursday, April 20, 2006 7:00-9:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
The purpose of this forum will be to provide students with information about two important sources of funding for undergraduate research -the Undergraduate Research Opportunitiy Program and the Undergraduate Intellectual Initiative. Six under­graduate recipients of these awards will speak about their experience of writing proposals, conducting their research, and seeing their projects to completion. 
Sponsored by the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts and the Office of Undergraduate Studies 

Passport changes lllade 
Foreigners will require identification for entry 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Bush administration said Tuesday it still plans to require passports from all foreigners entering the United States by the end of next year, despite calls for a delay by some Republicans worried about strained relations with Canada. 
At issue is a 2004 law, being phased in over three years, to tighten U.S. borders against sus­
pected terror­ists and other criminals. But critics on both sides of the nation's north­ern border fear the passport requirement will hamper commerce and tourism between Canada and the 
U.S. -the 
world's largest trading bloc. "We have to 
"It seems to me way cerned about 
premature to raise the what their neighbor is
flag of defeat when I 
doing."

think we have ample The law 
precedent and ample requires pass­ports from all
ability to meet the 
who enter the

deadline., 
U.S. -by air­

ports, boats or Michael Chertoff land crossings ­
by the end of

Homeland Security Secretary 
work with the law as it currently exists," Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said after a meeting with Canadian Public Safety Minister Stockwell Day. "I think it's a deadline we can meet." 
Asked whether the U.S. would be ready with new technology and staffing demands to handle the stricter inspections by Dec. 31, 2007, Chertoff said: "It seems to me way premature to raise the flag of defeat when I think we have ample precedent and ample ability to meet the deadline." 
But some border-state Republicans, including Sen. Norm Coleman of Minnesota, question whether the Homeland Security Department will have the neces­sary tools in time. Some have called for delaying the program for up to 18 months. 
Day stopped short of critici~ing the program, but said Canada was watching to see whether the 
U.S. will be ready. 
"We want to evaluate what they're doing," Day, standing next to Chertoff, told U.S. and Canadian reporters in Washington. "Obviously I raised concerns, some of the same ques­tions that you raised, in terms of: Is it feasible? Those are concerns of interest, those are concerns 
neighbors raise because they might be con­
2007. Trying to quell domestic concerns over paying the $97 cost of a passport, the Bush administration is pro­posing a cheaper alternative doc­ument, called a PASS card, for 
U.S. citizens. That card would cost about $50, but would not be available to Canadians, Mexicans or other frequent border crossers. 
Day said his country is not con­sidering similar cards for Canadian citizens, and would con­tinue to require identification such as a driver's license and birth certificate for northbound border crossers. 
Canada is the United States' largest trading partner, conduct­ing an estimated $1.5 billion in business daily. 


Are vou asophomore Accounting Major looking lor great pav and atremendous business experienceII 
... Or asophomore or junior looking to use vour Web design experience to build aresumeII 
If so, Get a Job at The Observer! 
The Observer is now accepting applications for Controller and Web Administrator. 
If you're interested or have questions, please contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
Wednesday, April 19, 2006 
page 10 The Observer + NEWS 
Germany decides to open records 
Holocaust survivors, relatives hope previously sealed archives will reveal fate ofloved ones 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON After decades of holding back, Germany took a major step Tuesday toward opening Nazi records on 17 million Jews, slave laborers and other lloloeaust victims to historians and relatives long anxious for conelusivn information about thnir fate. 
Germany pledged to work with the Unitnd States to ensure the opening of the archives, which are housed in the German town Bad Arolsen. Eleven nations oversee the 30 million to 50 million documents and are to meet in Luxembourg next month to consider amend­ing a 1955 treaty that has, niTnctively, limitnd access and eopying. 
"Wn still have negotiations to do," the American spneial envoy for Ilolocaust issues, Edward B. O'Donnell, said in an interview. "Our goal is to reach an agrne­ment as soon as possible." 

Approval in Luxembourg would require agreement by all 11 countries. The parliaments of several of the countries would have to give their approval, as well. 
At a news conference Tuesday at the U.S. Holocaust Museum, German Justice Minister Brigitte Zypries said her country would work with the United States on opening the archives. Until now, Germany has resisted, citing privacy concerns. 
In Jerusalem, Holocaust spe­cialist Shlomo Aharonson, a his­torian at Hebrew University, said, "They have shown good will but that doesn't mean the problem has been solved." 
Aharonson said the archives are supposed to contain all the names of' those who died in World War II, both Jews and non-Jews. 
The announcement by Zypries culminated a 20-year 
effort by the Holocaust Museum, the United States, France, Poland and some other countries to pry the archives open. 
Negotiations intensified in the past four or five years and took on even greater momentum in the past two years, said Arthur Berger, spokesman for the museum. 
In a meeting Tuesday with museum director Sarah Bloomfield, Zypries said Germany had changed its posi­tion and would immediately seek revision of the accord gov­erning the archives. The process should take no more than six months, the minister said. 
Opening the archives would enable many survivors and families of victims of the Nazis to find out with more certainty than ever before what hap­pened to their relatives. 
"We are losing the survivors, and anti-Semitism is on the rise so this move could not be more timely," Bloomfield said in an interview. 

She said the move was "something of moral and histor­ical importance in a critical time." 
"Overall, it makes it possible to learn a lot more about the fate of individuals and to learn a lot more about the llolocaust itself-concentration camps, deportations, slave-enforced labor and displaced persons," Paul Shapiro, director of the museum's center for advanced Holocaust studies, said in a sep­arate interview. 
Spealting in German, Zypries said, "We now agree to open the data in Bad Arolsen in Germany. We now assume the data will be safeguarded by those countries that copy the material and use it, and now that we have made this decision we want to move forward." Iter remarks were translated into English for reporters. 
NationalCity~
BroadwayS.eries 

1. CALL THE MORRIS CENTER BOX OFFICE OR GO ONLINE 
_.,__ ·----------'""*"""-'--574.235.9190 WWW.MORRISCENTER.ORG 
2. GO TO THE MORRIS PERFORMING ~RTS CENTER BOX OFFICE 211 NORTH MICHIG~N STREET, 30UTH BEND, IN 
3. ALL RIGHT J FOR 20 BUCKS 
YOU GOTT~ WORK ~ LITTLE-THE l3T 2 ROW3 ~RE $20 C~3H* ~T THE DOOR, ON 3~LE 2 HOUR3 BEFORE,THE 3HOW 
9T~RT9 TOD~YI 
APRIL 19-20 MORRIS CENTER 




Man kills 
3 vvo111en 
G.unman concludes rampage with suicide 
Associated Press 

ST. LOUIS -A man killed the 
mother of his child Tuesday, 
then went to the catering com­
pany where he once worked 
and fatally shot two women 
and himself, police said. 

One other woman was shot 
at Finninger's Catering Service 
and was in stable condition, 
police said. 

Among the dead was an 
owner of the company, but her 
elderly husband and business 
partner may have been saved 
by a quick-thinking employee 
who hid him in a walk-in cool­
er as the rampage unfolded. 
Police said Ilerbnrt Chalmers 
Jr. killed 53-year-old Sylvia 
Ilaynes at her apartment 
Tuesday morning. llours later, 
he was overheard bragging 
about plans to kill his boss, 
then went to the catering com­
pany. 

Chalmers and Ilaynes had a child together, but the state of their relationship was unclear Tuesday, police said. 
One of the women killed was 79-year-old Cleo Finninger, who ran the company with. her husband, Charles, said Susan Akscin, the woman's niece. The other was their adult daughter, 44-year-old Christine Politte, who oversaw payroll, authori­ties said. The company is on the northwest edge of St. Louis and employs about 50 people. 
Both women were shot in a garage area, police said. The shooter killed himself in the parking lot. 
Police and co-workers described Chalmers as a dis­gruntled former employee. Some workers said that he may have been angered after being told his wages would be gar­nisheed for child support, and that he may have been fired after failing to show up for work a day earlier. 
Employee Colette Meissner said she was in the kitchen when she heard shots and the gunman screaming the names of people he intended to kill. 
He shouted "Charlie," refer­ring to Charles Finninger, Meissner said. The elderly owner was in a wheelchair, and Meissner pushed him into a walk-in cooler. 
They huddled with another employee and listened as Chalmers kept shooting, Meissner said. 
"I shut the door and we all stood in there and prayed," she said. "We were scared to death." 
The employees who were killed were fleeing with other workers out the back of the shop, police said. 
Chalmers was overheard in a Wal-Mart store bragging that he planned to shoot his boss, Brown said. Wal-Mart employ­ees told police. 
Shots were being fired at the catering company as police arrived about 1:30 p.m., Brown said. Chalmers was using a semiautomatic handgun, authorities said. 
Employee Dawn Flowers, still wearing her red apron, cried as she recalled seeing Chalmers enter through a rear door carrying a duffel bag and a coat over his arm. She believed the coat was hiding the gun. 
Wednesday, April 19, 2006 The Observer + NEWS page 11 
Defense secretary Ru111sfeld does not intend to resign 
President Bush, Rumsfeld, issue statements defending Pentagon official's actions in face ofcriticism from retired generals 
Associated Press  find you haven't done anything  who were not senior enough in  and complaining about it," he  "The sky fell. Can you imagine?  
and the country isn't prepared."  rank  to  work  directly  for  said. "It's also true that I have a  Can you imagine making that  
WASHINGTON  - Defense  Later Rumsfeld and Gen. Peter  Humsfeld.  sense of urgency. I get up every  decision and breaking tradition  
Secretary Donald H. Humsfeld  Pace, chairman of the Joint  Of the six retired generals who  morning and worry about pro­ for decades in this country? Can  
said Tuesday he is not thinking of  Chiefs of Staff, met to discuss the  have called for Humsfeld to quit,  tecting the American people and  you imagine overturning what  
quitting despite several retired  war on terrorism with about a  four were two-stars, one was a  seeing if we are doing everything  the service had proposed for a  
generals' calls for him to do so.  dozen retired  three-star and  humanly possible to see that we  main battle tank? Well, it went  
lie discounted any suggestion of  military officers  one -Anthony  do the things that will make  on and on in the press, and it  
widespread dissent within the military's officer corps. At a Pentagon news confer­ence, Humsfeld sought to portray  who are regu­lar commenta­tors on TV net­work news  'Tm the decider and I decide what's best. And what's best is for Don  Zinni-was a four-star who had retired before the Bush  them safe." Rumsfeld spoke several hours after Bush reiterated his support. ''I'm the decider and I decide  was a firestorm, and there were congressional hearings and peo­ple saying how amazingly irre­sponsible it was. And it calmed  
the recent public airing of griev­ances against him by some for­mer Iraq war commanders and other retired generals as an  shows. Retired Air Force Lt. Gen. Thomas  Rumsfeld to remain as the secretary of defense.,  administration took office. In the news conference,  what's best," Bush told reporters in the Rose Garden as he announced several White House staff changes. "And what's best is  down eventually." Among the recent complaints against Rumsfeld is his manage­ment style. Admirers call him  
inevitable consequence of his  Mcinerney, who  Rumsfeld cited  for Don Humsfeld to remain as  tough. Detractors say he is disre­ 
hard push for fundamental changes in the military establish­ment to fight the war on terror­ is a Fox News commentator, said in an inter­ George W. Bush President  several examples of tough choices he has made that  the secretary of defense." Humsfeld said he recalled on his way to work Tuesday that in  spectful. "The current secretary of defense is dismissive, contemptu­ 
ism.  view afterward  have  angered  his first term as defense secre­ ous and arrogant," retired Maj.  
"When you make a decision,  that the calls  some inside the  tary -in the Ford administra­ Gen. John Batiste said Tuesday  
you make a choice, somebody is  from other retired generals for  Pentagon. He mentioned a reor­ tion in the mid-1970s-he went  in an e-mail exchange about  
not going to like it," he said. "It's  Humsfeld to resign came up only  ganization of the Army's combat  against the Army's preferred  Humsfeld. "Many of us have  
perfectly possible to come into this department and preside and not make choices, in which case  briefly. "We didn't waste the sec­retary's time with that," he said, adding that he puts little stock in  units that has been under way since the Iraq war began. "By golly, one ought not to be  choice in the design of the M-1 Abrams tank, which remains the Army's main battle tank today.  worked for far tougher and more aggressive men, but those lead­ers understood leadership, the  
people are not unhappy, until  the criticisms because they come  surprised that there are people  "Well, you would have thought  value of teamwork and that  
about five years later when they  mostly from two-star generals  who are uncomfortable about it  the world had ended," he said.  respect is a two-way street."  



MISHAWAKA. IN. 
258.9999 
327 Union Street, Mishawaka 
N• 

Graduation Weekend: Your seat is reserved. 
Since your parents picked up your meal tab for the post four years, soy thank you with dinner -but hey, let them pay, that way they will know it really is you! 
Now taking reservations for Graduation Weekend Dinners: 
Thursday, Friday and Saturday from 3pm to Midnight. 
www.UnionStationMishawaka.com 

steaks • • seafood 






NEPAL 
Nepalis oppose King 
Demonstrators protest in favor ofdemocracy 
Associated Press 
KATMANDU -With defiance of royal rule spreading, security forces fatally shot a fifth protest­er Monday while King Gyanendra searched for a way out of a crisis that has plunged the Himalayan land into its worst turmoil since he seized absolute power 14 months ago. 
Twelve days of often-bloody pro-democracy protests and a general strike have emptied Nepal's highways, leaving cities short of fresh food and fuel. At one Katmandu hotel, the dinner menu was scribbled on a pink post-it note. 
A convoy guarded by arlllored army vehicles headed toward the capital Tuesday with salt, fruits and vegetables, cooking fuel and gasoline -the first batch of supplies and passengers to head for Katmandu in nearly two weeks. 
Protesters tried to stop the convoy on Monday but soldiers opened fire, wounding at least five. 
A statement issued by the Hoyal Nepalese Army said the soldiers were compelled to open fire as the mob tried to set fuel tankers on fire and attacked people in the convoy. 
Thousands of protesters ram­paged on Katmandu's outskirts Monday, blocking roads with burning barricades and hurling bricks at police. Officers responded with tear gas, rubber bullets and baton charges. 
"We will hang Gyanendra over flames -the king will burn!" Arjun Prasad, 22, declared as he stood near a flaming pile of tires. 
In Nijgadh, 75 miles south of Katmandu, thousands of people were marching through town when security forces opened ftre with live ammunition, killing one protester and wounding five, a local official said. The death was the fifth caused by security forces in recent days. 
The five wounded protesters were hospitalized with serious injuries, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to talk to reporters. 
Since the opposition campaign began April 6, daily protests have hit nearly every city and town in this I Iindu kingdom. 
Ordinary Nepalis have joined the rallies alongside the usual cast of students and political activists. Lawyers, doctors and even the disabled have organ­ized their own demonstrations. 
The king appeared to be seri­ously considering relinquishing at least some of the power he seized when he closed parlia­ment in February 2005 -a move he said was needed to restore order and crush a com­munist insurgency that has killed nearly 13,000 people over the past decade. 
A palace official said Gyanendra met on Monday with two former prime ministers ­Krishna Prasad Bhattarai and 
Suraya Bahadur Thapa  - to  
explore  the  possibility  of  
appointing a prime minister.  

The official agreed to discuss the meeting only if he was not identified. 

page 12 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, April 19, 2006 


Like to /alk? 
Love Notre Dame? 

Judge rules on consent 
Doctors not required to report underage sex 
Associated Press 

WICHITA, Kan. -In a victo­ry for an abortion rights group, a federal judge ruled Tuesday that abortion clinic doctors and other profession­als are not required under Kansas law to report under­age sex between consenting youths. 
The ruling by U.S. District Judge J. Thomas Marten was a setback for Kansas Attorney 
General Phil! Kline,  an  abor­ 
tion foe.  
Kline  contended  a  1982  

Kansas law requiring doctors, teachers and others to alert the state and law enforcement about potential child abuse covers consensual sex between minors. He argued that the law applies to abor­tion clinics, and later extend­ed that to other health profes­sionals and t1~achers. 
The Center for Heproductive Hights challenged that inter­protation in court, and the judge sided with the organiza­tion. Kline said he had not decided whether to appeal. 
"It's not unexpected," Kline said. "It's what we've been predicting." 
Marten ruled that a plain reading of the Kansas law gives health care providers discretion to determine whether there is reason to suspect a child has been injured as a result of sexual abuse. 
The attorney general's office had contended the law required mandatory reporting because sex is inherently harmful to underage children. In Kansas, the age of consent is 16. 
Health professionals must be able to work in confidence to appropriately treat young patients, the judge wrote. 
"This case certainly is not about promoting sexual promiscuity among underage persons," he wrote. "Each and every witness testified that underage sex should be dis­couraged. No witness suggest­ed that sexual intercourse under the age of 12 should not be reported." 
The law "recognizes that sexual activity among under­age persons occurs, and that any such activity that injures the minor will be reported," the judge wrote. 
Simon Heller, attorney for the Center for Heproductive Hights, called the ruling an important victory for young people. 
"It is the first ruling recog­nizing the United States Constitution gives protection -constitutional protection ­to the informational privacy rights of young people in health care," Heller said. 
The center sued in 2003 on behalf of a group of obstetri­cians and gynecologists, nurs­es, psychologists, social work­ers, a family practice doctor, and a sex education teacher. Named as defendants were Kline and Sedgwick County prosecutor Nola Foulston, as representative of all county and district attorneys in Kansas. 
Foulston had no comment Tuesday, a spokeswoman said. 
------------------------------------, 
Wednesday, April 19, 2006 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 13 
JORDAN 
Department of Music Presents 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

CHORALE 
Nation rescinds invite 
& CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR 

MONTEVERDI MOZART BEETHOVEN
p p 
SCHUMANN FAURE STRAVINSKY
p p 
8:00P.M. SATURDAY, APRIL 22, 2006 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL 
Tickets ~10, ~8, ~6, ~3 phone 574-631-2800 or buy on-line at http://performingarts.nd.edu 
ADEBARTOLO 
~ PfRfORMINGARlS CENTER 
Palestinian official forced to cancel visit 
Associated Press 
AMMAN -Jordan accused Hamas activists of smuggling missiles and other weapons into the kingdom and said Tuesday it was canceling a planned visit of the Palestinian foreign minister -the second diplomatic snub for the Hamas-led government in a week. 
Palestinian Foreign Minister Mahmoud Zahar's visit to Jordan, which was planned for Wednesday, had been "put off until further notice," a Jordanian government spokesman said. 
On Friday, Zahar went to Cairo, but Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit said he was too busy for a meeting. 
The Jordanian spokesman, Nasser Judeh, told The Associated Press that "missiles, explosives and automatic weapons were seized in the last couple of days." Hamas activists had managed to smuggle "such dangerous weapons into the country" and store them, he said. 
He would not say whether the activists had been arrested. 
Osama Hamadan, a spokesman for Hamas, declined to comment on Judeh's remarks, saying late Tuesday he had not seen the 
Jordanian statement. 

In a separate statement to the official Petra news agency, Judeh said Jordanian security services had observed Hamas activists "exploring several vital (potential) targets" in the capital, Amman, and other cities. He did not elaborate. 
State television quoted Judeh as saying the discovery of the arms cache proved that "Hamas is using two languages in dealing with Jordan." 
Jordan, which signed a peace treaty with Israel in 1994, maintains a tough line on mili­tants and once expelled the current leader of Hamas, Khaled Mashaal, for his activi­ties. 
Jordan and Egypt have called on Hamas to accept the Arab peace plan, which entails full recognition of Israel in exchange for full withdrawal from territory captured in the 1967 and 1973 Arab-Israeli wars. 
Hamas refuses to recognize Israel. 
Hamas officials have been flying around the Middle East to ask for aid, although it was not immediately clear whether that was the purpose of Wednesday's trip. Hamas is hoping for help to compensate for the U.S. and European Union's decisions to cut off funds to the Palestinian Authority because of the mili­tant group's refusal to renounce violence and recog­nize Israel. 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 14 Wednesday, April 19, 2006 

Lance Gallop 
Tidewater Blues 
THE OBSERVER 

Notre Dame dreams 
1~0. Box 779, Notre Dame. IN 46556 014 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre D•me, IN 46556 While I was in college there was Notre Dame, to its credit, is built tie fame, the glory or the grand and always a sense that winter, spring upon dreamers. Against all odds it practical dreams and achievements
EDITOR IN CltiEI' 

and fall at Notre Dame were audi­may nurture a few from time to time. of those who reshape the world in
Mik,· Gilloon 

tions for a summer dress rehearsal. Yet this is both our success and our their image-the Gandhis, the 
MANAGING EDITOR BtlSINF.'i..~ MANAGER 

The drama itself' comes later, of' folly. As of late the University, like so Edisons, the Fermis and the Fords­
Maddie Hanna Paula Garcia 

course-a yearn­many others, has become mired in I do not buy into the myth that this ingly sensual self­neo-lvy League bull and the values of one type of fulfillment is all that
AssT. MANAGING ElliTOR: Rarna Gorrumukkala reliance that we lesser universities like Harvard have there is for everyone. Nor do I
Ass1: MANAGING EDITOR: Robcn Griffin 

choose, for undis­become our values as well. These believe that those people obtained 
NEWS EDITORS: Amanda Michaels 

closed reasons, to universities recruit almost exclusive­their mastery-save by whim of 
Mary Kate Malone 

call the real world ly on the basis of the unrealized change-following a nco-Ivy League
VIEWl'OINT EDITOR: Joey King 

-but that does not achievements and fame of their stu­model of centen~d elitism. Tho SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
lessen the tension dents (an admissions process with insights and character of tho truly ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtadcr and complexity of' fascinating anti-Semitic roots, if you great come from the same place as SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan learning to apply care to research it) and idolize the the quiet and nameless whispers that PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella the lessons of' Notre intellectual, social and spiritual elit­are stirring your heart and mine GRAPHIC~ EDITOR: Graham Ehetsch Dame's life-theoret­ism that is our kind's greatest flaw. every moment, if we only listen. A.DVF.RJ'ISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown ical to life-practical The quiet dreams cannot survive in If it is truly greatness that you seek during those four this noise. -and there are very few who in
An DI~~IGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 

summer months. These days, people expect so much their most honest moments would
CONTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 

For this reason, the summer days are from Notre Dame graduates, and no deny it -then understand that it can 
WEll ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althotf 

in no small way an image of the one moreso than the graduates them­only be found by following the quiet,
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Alejandro Gerbaud 

years to come. selves. The pressure for glory is inner voices of your own real OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO The approach of summer reminds intense. Have you founded a humani­dreams, not in the loudness of the 
(574) 631-7471 me of the post-graduate experience tarian society yet? Why are you not real world.
FAX 

that those months emulate -it working on Wall Street? The medical The obsession with success is not
(574) 631-6927 

makes me wistful for answers to school that you have gotten into is only emotionally and psychotically
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad(4Jnd.cdu questions that I cannot yet phrase, not as good as I had hoped. I am dis­draining; it is spiritually and prag­EDITOR IN CHIEF and it makes me desire dreams that appointed that you are not com­matically self-defeating as well. The 
(574) 631-4542 have no names. I imagine that it is manding greater respect in your nature of a true dream is to be frag­MANAGING EDITOR 
this way for other people as well, field. Why is your salary so meager? ile and ineffable, and the price that 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 

approaching and following gradua­Why have you failed? you pay for sacrificing these whis­
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

tion, or I would not share these And so the prerequisite for our pers may well be irrevocable.
(574) 631-4324 

BUSINESS OFFICE words. (Yet, if talk of this type is too happiness is an obsession with suc­I enjoin you, therefore, as you step 
(574) 631-5313 odd or too personal for you, simply cess and happiness itself. Our men­into the summer and beyond, and as 
NEWS DESK turn to another viewpoint.) tors -who are more experienced you -just as I -are swept away by(574) 631-5323 obsncws.l@nd.edu 
During my tenure at college, I con­and worldly persons -will smile and the currents, do not forget the tiny
VIEWPOINT DESK 

soled myself' with the hopfl that the call this time of life transitional and voice within you, and what it is lost
(574) 631-5303 vicwpoint.J@nd.edu 

real world would bring an epiphany, focus our attention on the process of by ignoring it.
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 spons.l @nd.edu or at least a logical progression, to moving forward. They will distract us SCENE DESK thflse inner drnams. To my disap­just long enough for our own inner Lance Gallop is a 2005 graduate of 
(574) 631-4540 sccnd@nd.edu pointment it only brought the din of' dreams to fade and for the dreams of the Unit,ersity of Notre Dame. Please 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 

greater yearnings. Most of' these, Harvard and Yale to take ovPr and direct allfeedback to com· .. !!. ,w:J
smc. I r&nd.edu 

though undeniably important, havfl become ours. If they do their jdb ments@tidewaterblues. com
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 ohsphmo@nd.edu very little to do with the quiet place right, we will never even notice that The views expressed in this column SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS where I am really myself' and where we have died. are those of the author and not nec­
(574) 63 I-8839 these dreams live. And while it is not my wish to belit-essarily those r~f The Observer. THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 

www.ndsmcobserver.com POLICIES LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
The t )bserver is the indcpcndem, daily newspaper publi,hed in prim and online hy the smdcms of the University ofNmrc Dame du L.tc and Saint Mary:s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 

Rid campus eateries of battery cage eggs 
not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Tilt' Observer reserves the right to rcfi.L<e advertiscmenL< based on content. 

Everyday many of us ponder what we can do to make These facilities are inspected for compliance with
The news is repor~ed as accurately and objectively as 

the world a better place. We want to join multiple clubs stringent, seienee-based standards for animal welfare
pos.~ible. Unsigned t•dirorials represem dw opinion of 

or volunteer for many issues, but time constraints hold and egg safety.
the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor. 

us back. So why hasn't Notre Dame started supporting higher
Assismm Managing Edimr.; and deparrment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views Before we give up we should consider another alterna­animal welfare standards by purehasing eggs from cage­of the authors and nm ncces.urily those ofThe tive to ease suffering in the world simply by exercising free facilities? Observer. our purchasing power. There is a growing movement on Dining services is using the unfounded excuse that Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free college campuses to do just that by asking dining services they are concerned about food safety. Every major gro­expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
to switch to cage-free eggs. cery store in the United States offers cage-free eggs. The 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 

The eggs bought by Notre Dame come from hens con­two largest natural food store chains in the country,
contact infi>rm<ltion. 

fined in battery cages. These hens spend their lives Whole Foods Market and Wild Oats Marketplace, exclu­crammed in barren, wire cages. In this system, each hen sively offer cage-free eggs. Bon Appetit Management
Qumions "[;tJrdin~ Obsm•n-policies should be 

dirtct~d to Editor in ChiefMike G'illoor1. is afforded only sixty-seven square inches of space -less Company is phasing in the exclusive use of cage-free than the size of a single piece of notebook paper. Even eggs in all 400 of its cafeterias, including the corporate POST OFFICE INFORMATION though Notre Dame profits from these hens, the animals headquarters of Yahoo, Adidas and Cisco. aren't even afforded the most basic of comforts. In bat­Yet these eggs are not good enough for Notre Dame? 
The (~ner (liSPS 191J 1·1000} u pubhsht<l Moud~y through Friday cltapt during: ~n .anti vu..mon petWd.t. A tUMctlption to lhe Observer u S I 00 tOr one acl&demic tery cages hens cannot fulfill many of their most impor­Over the years, students at Notre Dame have led this ~r, $11J"i rur Mt IIC:mtlter, 
tant natural behaviors such as peeking, nesting or even school to make purchasing decisions based on compas­
Thr fllw:rver i• Jttthluhed •r~ POSTMASTER 

02.4 Soulh Duung H.dl Sctwl.ddtl.'!$4 Ultr«.rtuns lu; spreading their wings. sion and decency. A move to rid campus cafeterias of 
Nunt D11111C', IN 4M5MJ7~J Tiw::Oiutvt'r 

Fortunately, more people and colleges-over 90 so far battery-cage eggs is long overdue.
flcrm,Jic.:.d po:1111~ p;uJ ,u Nnuc Ihunc RO. O.l.li 779 .UitiJillilfluuwlmiiJJlng,lffi~. Ol<i Suuth DiuinK Hnll -are realizing that animal welfare standards need to Nmn: [)A.nu::, IN 4tJi~('t-077 11 
be higher and are buying cage-free eggs from Certified Julie Nichols Humane Haised and Handled egg producers. liens in senior these facilities are still kept indoors but they are free to Cavanaugh Hall
T'ht: (lhJo:rvc:r 1.1. flll1t'IUI'!t'r urthc: Allwci:Ut'd I'Tn.~. All rq:m.diK"Ii~IU rlghb Jft: 

rc:Krvc:d. move around, to peck and to nest. April 12 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Amanda Miehaels Kate Gales Kaitlynn Hiely Chris Khorey Marenlla Berrios Chris Iline Are you 'going to the Viewpoint Scene Blue-Gold game? Laura Sonn . Chris McGrady Graphics 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Jnfl' i\lbnrt 

at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Submit aLetter to the Editor at 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Man seems to be capable ofgreat virtues but not ofsmall virtues; capable ofdrify_ing h!s torturec but not ofkeepmg hts temper. 
G.K. Chesterton English author 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, April 19, 2006 
page 15 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Open letter to the University community 
Dear faculty colleagues, staff and stu­dents: 
The recent "closing statement" of our President Father John Jenkins has elicit­ed an impressive number of positive responses on campus, and that must seem reassuring in many quarters of the University. But I am bound to confess that both the statement itself, and the early responses that welcomed it, left me feeling uncertain and unclear about our commitment to a future as a Catholic university. As Chair of the Department of Theology, though speaking only in my own person and making no claim to rep­resent the distinguished faculty of that department whom I both love and admire, I feel! have the responsibility to register a minority report. I am not now speaking about the particular decision regarding "The Vagina Monologues." Rather, I am concerned with the rhetoric about the Catholic university in which the decision was framed and which is now becoming settled convention in articulating the character of our Catholic identity. 
For increasingly there is a missing conversation partner. The statement of our President barely mentions the Church. If the Church is ever mentioned in the responses I have read so far, it is in the gratitude expressed that we have not attempted to "appease" the Church or the Church hierarchy, or else in the (unintentionally) patronizing allusion to those who care about the University's relationship to the Church as implicitly conceiving the University along the lines of a seminary. It is as though the mere mention of a relationship with the Church has become so alien to our ways of thinking and so offensive to our quest for a disembodied "excellence" that it is has become impolite to mention it at all. The President's statement repeatedly refers to "the Catholic intellectual tradi­tion," a phrase that in itself is unobjec­tionable but which has now become almost a circumlocution used to avoid mentioning what seems unfashionable and almosfunthinkable to mention, namely, the Church. 
But Ex Corde Ecclesiae, which the President's statement cites, speaks of a relationship not in the first place between the Catholic university and the Catholic intellectual tradition, but between the Catholic university and the Church. And, whether we recognize it or not, this relationship to the Church -to the real, incarnate Body of Christ, the Church as it is with all its blemishes and not the abstract, idealized Church in our minds -is the lifeblood and only guar­antee of our identity as a Catholic uni­versity. There is no Catholic identity apart from affiliation with the Church. Appeal to "the Catholic intellectual tradi­tion" apart from some explicit relation­ship to the Church risks reducing the tradition itself to an abstraction. And again, I do not mean an imaginary Church we some­times might wish existed, but the 
"Without a sense ofthe University's 
concrete, visible intellectually rig­communion of close relationship with, and orous seminary "hierarchic and programs,
accountability to, the Church, 

charismatic including our
the unique and precious

gifts," "at once own). This is to holy and always intellectual fabric that we have invite and to cul­in need of purifi­tivate an intellec­
woven here ... can never in

cation," in which tual tradition 
the long run be sustained." 

"each bishop that is not must be a direct connection between the statements of the bishop and particular policies of the University, but neither has the bishop ever said that, not even in this case, and in any event the main point, again, is that his views and those of the magisterium in general have come to seem unworthy even of mention as possibly and in some small way determi­native of our identity. 
The President's statement, as a way of going forward, seems to ratify our unspoken declaration of independence from the Church, to permit it as the "default" mode of operation, and to invite the reduction of any model of the universitywhich entails any explicit relationship to the magisterium of the 
Church as a 
"seminary" 
model (pace all 
represents his own church and all of [the bishops] together with the Pope represent the whole Church ... " (Lumen Gentium 1.4,8; 3.23). 
Now, no one would deny that the rela­tionship between University and Church is not a challenging relationship with many attendant difficulties. And there is certainly room for argument about what are the specific, appropriate forms and shapes that the University's relationship with the Church should take. But this relationship, which necessarily involves some measure of accountability, should never be dismissed as an irrelevance, and that is what is increasingly happen­ing at our University, ifour President's statement, the debate that shaped it and the responses it elicited so far, are any indication. The local bishop's statements in the present case are not even men­tioned, and bringing them up almost seems like an offense in polite intellectu­al company. I am not saying that there moored to any 
ecclesial commu­nity or authority that could have a claim on defining that intellectual tradition. It is to invite and to cultivate an intellectu­al tradition in which "Catholic" is not normed by accountability to any incar­nate, historical body but only to the dis­incarnate, a-historical church of the mind. 
The ancient Gnostic heresy developed an elitist intellectual tradition which eschewed connection to the "fleshly" church of the bishop and devalued or spiritualized the sacraments. Are we in danger of developing a gnosticized ver­sion of the "Catholic intellectual tradi­tion," one which floats free of any norming connection and so free of any concrete claim to Catholic identity? Are we -meaning all of us, and not just the President, for this is not just his problem -disowning the problem, rather than facing it honestly as a prob­lem, as a project, as a challenge, as a struggle and yes, as a commitment? There is no commitment if it is not explicitly stated. 
These concerns may be more evident to a Theology department chair than to others, because it is beyond dispute that no one cares much about theology apart from the believing community, the Church, and that without a concrete accountability to the Church theologians would eventually be out of a job! But everyone who is honestly invested in Catholic identity, in a genuine Catholic intellectual tradition, in the special intellectual witness that is demanded of a Catholic university, should feel some caution, and even some regret, at the absence of any explicit commitment to accountability to the Church reflected in the President's statement, and in the early positive responses it received. Without a sense of the University's close relationship with, and accountability to, the Church, the unique and precious intellectual fabric that we have woven here and which many, including many who are not Catholic, have come to value precisely because of its special character and witness, can never in the long run be sustained. 
I would ask that anyone who has come to value the uniqueness of our intellec­tual culture here at Notre Dame consid­er carefully what I have written, and not discount it immediately as just another instance of the standard boilerplate of extremist pressure groups that unfortu­nately exist within the Catholic Church today. This is not the time to indulge in the luxury of discounting by labeling. For this, I thank the reader in advance. I am sure that as a university communi­ty we can rise to this occasion. I am also sure that we have no other choice if we want to preserve some distinctiveness as an intellectual culture. 
Thanks for your consideration of these matters. Sincerely, 
John C. Cavadini Associate Professor and Chair Department ofTheology Director, Institute for Church Life Aprill4 
Immigration and America's mistake 
The United States has made a mistake. This mistake has made life very difficult for some of those around us, and has even cost some people their lives. Thankfully, there is something we can do about it. 
The mistake is in our immigration system. More specifically, it is that as the demand for labor in this country grew, the government didn't raise the quotas of visas issued. However, visas or no visas, if there are jobs, the people will come -and they did. Restaurants, landscapers, farm owners and many more all hired · them for the low-wage jobs. As many have noticed, gov­ernment ollicials have made no significant efforts to crack down on these employers. These oficials must have realized that the employers, and our nation, need­ed the immigrants' labor. Now, there are roughly 11 million undocumented immigrants living in the United States. 
It is not the American citizens who suffer in this situa­tion. "Undocumented !immigrants] add at least $22 bil­lion. in total. to the economy each year" ("and legalizing their status would increase that amount"). (www.lulac.org) Furthermore, we can see that it has not harmed job opportunities in our country: "during the period of high immigration in the 1990's, real wages actually increased across all income levels, including those of the poorest 20 pereent of American households, while the national unemployment rate fell below four percent (www.pfaw.org)." While some Americans fear that these immigrants are a drain on our social servic­es, the facts would suggest otherwise. Undocumented immigrants are ineligible for many public federal assis­tance programs and "all immigrants, regardless of sta­tus, will pay on average $80,000 per capita more in taxes than they use in government services over their lifetime (www.americas.org)." Though many Americans are unaware of this, undocumented immigrants do pay income, sales, gas and property taxes. Perhaps some taxes on migrant workers, whose earnings may go unrecorded, cannot be enforced, but of course, this would change with legal status. Most undocumented workers though, receive paychecks like everyone else and, like everyone else, they get money taken out for Social Security, but it is money that they will never col­lect on. Because of this, the Social Security system has gotten "approximately $420 billion from the earnings of immigrants who are not in a position to claim benefits" (as of 2004, www.immigrantsolidarity.org). 
Though Americans do not suffer in this situation the undocumented immigrants certainly do. They have a much more difficult life because of their immigration status. Families are separated. Fathers who come alone to work in the U.S. will often not see their wives and children for two or three years. Similarly, families who have come here together, or people who have started families once they have arrived here, will not go back to visit their families. They do not want to risk bringing their children (or themselves) across the border any more than they have to. Grandparents do not see their grandchildren; adults have a tough decision to make if they want to visit a dying relative back home. And, though most people make it safely across our border, many have also died trying. According to CBS News, "upwards of 1,000 a year are dying" trying to cross the border. Those who do arrive here find themselves in a country where they lack basic rights. It is a situation of taxation without representation and at times, intimida­tion. 
Sadly, this situation is the best option for many people. Jobs in the native countries of many are scarce and very low-paying. These undocumented immigrants chose to come to our country even though it's risky and our country would not grant them any rights. True, they did not have to come. It was a choice. But what we have to ask ourselves is -do we feel like continuing to deny these people their rights? Do we want to be a country that takes advantage of people whenever possible? 
Also, we shouldn't forget that the people who are here without documents are already part of our country. Our children go to school together; we go to the same church. We see people who don't have documents everyday, in passing or while they arc working. Sure, we could support legislation that makes these people's lives more difficult, but why? 
If our government passes legislation that allows undocumented immigrants to get visas, this country will be fixing its mistakes. Some people though, would pr!:J­fer that we show the world that we stand by our laws ­be they just or unjust. Some think that we should punish the weakest members of our society for breaking a law that our own government has ignored. 
I would prefer to be part of a country that can admit its mistakes, fix them, and move on. Please, support leg­islation that helps the immigrants who don't have docu­ments. 
Megan Johnson 
senior 
Pasquerilla East Hall Aprill6 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 16 
Wednesday, April 19, 2006 
SCENE FEATURE 

1 Scary Movie 4' lacks humor, originality 
By BRIAN DOXTADER and ERIN 
MCGINN 
Scene Critics 
"Scary Movie 4," billed as the "fourth and linal lilm in the trilogy" is one sequel too many. Directed by David Zucker ("Airplane!" and "The Naked Gun"), the movie seems have potential. but the mate­rial is toi> thin and the humor too broad and tasteless for it to emerge as a parody classic like its original predecessor. 
Tom Cruise himself borders so close to parody that hn snes too easy a target, though Craig Bierko's measured perform­ancn adeptly swings between the over­serious, 'Born on the Fourth of July' Cruise of movies and the insane, love-sick Scientologist Cruise of mallifl~. 
Anna Faris remains the anchor of the series, playing up the "dumb blonde" stereotype so prevalent in horror films (here spooling Sarah Michelle Gellar in "The Grudge"), though it seems less appropriate as the film starts to get away from pure horror. 
The chief inspiration for "Scary Movie 4" is a pair of hit films, "War of Worlds" 
Scary Movie 4
••,i~ 
Directors: David Zucker Writers: Jim Abrahams and Craig Mazin Starring: Anthony Anderson, Craig Bierko, Chingy and Carmen Electra 

and "The Grudge," but is also draws from the likes of 'The VIllage" and "Saw." Non­horror films like "Brokeback Mountain" and "Million Dollar Baby" make cameo appearances, which demonstrates just how different the "Scary Movie" series has become since il'i original incarnation. 
Parody is edgy, scandalous and reveal­ing at its best. The problem with "Scary Movie 4" is that the material it parodies is in of itself laughable. In other cases, it aims for broad, un-clever retreads -a scene that mimics "Brokeback Mountain" is so tiredly unoriginal that it is almost an insult to the audience. 
Elsewhere, a pre-credits sequence involving Shaq and Dr. Phil, though one of the film's funnier moments, is essentially a throwaway. 
An important question that "Scary Movie 4" raises is this: is scatological humor funny anymore? Was it ever? Why do filmmakers feel the need for poo and fart jokes over thirty years after "Blazing Saddles?" A scene in which a blind Carmen Electra mistakes a courthouse for a bathroom is not only gross, but also lasts way too long. 
Like SNL skits that run out of steam before they stumble to their conclusions, "Scary Movie 4" is so bizarrely paced (funny sequences seem too short, unfunny sequences last too long) that it at times feels longer than its brief 83 minutes. 
The franchise has strayed so far from its original premise that it is grasping for ideas. While the broad social humor works, it seems inappropriate in a film entitled "Scary Movie 4." The first "Scary Movie" worked because it drew on the entire horror genre (though mostly the slasher sub-genre). By now, "Scary Movie" has more installments than "Scream" and nearly as many as "Halloween." This is a problem. 
In a strangely paradoxical way, "Scary Movie 4" is at its best and worst when it adheres to real life rather than horror films. Terrorists, Bush's reaction to 9/11 and the United Nations all get parodied with mixed results. 
Leslie Nielson serves absolutely no pur­pose, and his scenes could have easily been cut, though the filmmakers probably needed him to stretch the material into feature length. 
Which leads to the most important ques­tion: if the filmmakers are so desperate for material, does "Scary Movie 4" deserve to be a feature-length? Though sporadically funny, the film nevffl"' treally 

'Slevin' struggles through identity crisis 
By ERIN MCGINN Scene Critic 
There is a dear problem with a movie that has to explain its allusions, especial­ly when the movie tries to be smarter than the average flick. "Lucky Number Slevin" falls into this category -it is an intelligent movie painfully dumbed-down so that everyone is able to understand and follow along. 
"Lucky Number Slevin" is about a case of mistaken identity. Slevin (Josh llartnett), suffering from a series of bad breaks, heads to his friend's apartment only to lind his friend gone and a line of serious debt-collectors close on his path. Slevin is taken to the Boss (Morgan Freeman) and then to the Habbi (Sir Ben Kingsley), two rival mob bosses who con­veniently live in apartment buildings aeross the 
The plot is nothing to get excited over -it speaks more of the familiar than the fresh. The case of mistaken identity has been around forever, and the movie is reminiscent of one of this theme's most famous examples -Alfred Hitchcock's "North by Northwest" starring Cary Grant. Hartnett compares his character to that of Grant's, just in case the audi­ence missed that "Slevin" is unoriginal. 
The film certainly tries to be smart and, in the hands of a more capable and experienced writer, it could have been. Instead every bright moment of clever­ness is dimmed by its subdued examples and over-explanations. Unfortunately for "Lucky Number Slevin" other movies, such as "The Usual Suspects," were far more successful about pulling the wool over the eyes of the audience. 
Too many parts of the movie are pre­dictable in the wrong places, and that takes away from 
street from 
the few good each other, so surprises of the close that they movie. What can even look "Slevin" has into each working in its other's win­favor is theDirector: Paul McGuigan 
dows. Slevin curiosity of the
Writers: Jason Smilovic 

is unable to audience -it's
S~arring: Josh Hartnett, Bruce Willis, Lucy Liu, 
convince them obvious what
Morgan Freeman and Ben Kingsley 
that they have the wrong guy and the only way for him to clear his name is to exe­cute a hit. 
Coming to his aid is Lindsey (Lucy Liu) who lives in the apartment across from where Slevin is staying. Fulfilling the role of Nancy Drew, she aids Slevin in unrav­eling the case of his mistaken identity. Adding to the identity confusion is a local police detective (Stanley Tucci) and the mysterious hit man (Bruce Willis) who keeps appearing everywhere. 
they are trying to 
pull off, but the 

question is how the characters will get to that point. 
The characters are what make this movie worthwhile and the true joy of "Slevin" is indeed the performances of the actors. They clearly had fun making the film, and the audience has just as much fun watching them. 
Hartnett proves that he is a capable actor and can handle himself well with talented film veterans. Liu was also given the opportunity to relax and have fun, gets going. Like the other "Scary Movie" films, the fourth installment is episodic, with little emphasis on plot. 
"Scary Movie 4" is not a bad film per se, but parody tends to succeed based on the strength of the original material. This is what made the first "Scary Movie" so effectively funny. 
While it's admirable that the filmmakers realized these limitations and tried to branch out, audiences will wish they had­n't gone for the obvious targets. Still, they made the easy but oddly appropriate choice by going with Tom Cruise's melt­down -after all, his appearance on Oprah was undoubtedly the scariest thing to come along in the past half decade. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu and Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu · · · t h . -~,., 

and it is refreshing to see her in a role where she isn't the killer ("Kill Bill") or scantily-clad ("Charlie's Angels"). Bruce Willis is in fine form, as are the other supporting characters of Freeman and Kingsley. It is unfortunate that they couldn't have had more time on-screen to really show off their skills. 
The lesser-known supporting charac­ters act impressively as well -one of the best performances in the film is that of Mykelti Williamson, best known as Bubba from "Forrest Gump," as one of the Boss' bodyguards. 
Unfortunately for the excellent cast, they didn't have the complexity of plot to live up to their skills. While enjoyable to watch, it is not the experience that it could have been. Watching "Lucky Number Slevin" is like reading the illus­trated classic edition of a great novel. The audience is left wishing that they had seen the real version of the film ­instead of the abridged and watered­down version. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, April 19, 2006 
page 17 
PLAY REVIEW 
'Matt and Ben' sweetly satirical taste of fame 
SCENE fEATURE 
Affleck and Damon prove to be unlikely movie duo 
Hollywood stars Matt Damon, left, and Ben Affleck are friends as well as co-worke~ and have conspired on such items as "Good Will Hunting'' and "Project Greenllght." 
By SEAN SWEANY 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Matt Damon and Ben Affleck. The two names go together like Laurel and Hardy or Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson. The two Hollywood mega stars have enjoyed fame and fortune in their brief movie careers ever since their break­out performances in "Good Will Hunting." 
The story of their seemingly overnight transformation from obscure actors to stardom is the epitome of the Hollywood success story. 
Matt and Ben were good friends throughout childhood as they played little league and took drama classes together. Both had a penchant for act­ing and ventured to Hollywood to attempt a career in show business. Their early careers featured small roles in movies and television, but this satisfied neither of the aspiring leading men. 
The trouble the two encountered landing big roles led them to write an independent screenplay so that they would have complete control over their project. Their script was first pur­chased by the film company Castle Rock, but the studio would not give Matt and Ben the control they desired. Director Kevin Smith -a friend who cast Matt and Ben in his independent comedy "Chasing Amy" -delivered their script to the head of the studio Miramax, which immediately bought the film and gave the two their desired control. 
The screenplay, entitled "Good Will Hunting," told the story of a young man (Damon) from Boston who was prodi­gious in mathematics but had trouble 
in relationships with other people and 
himself. Damon's character must strug­
gle with himself and his relationships 
so that he can open up to others and 
also realize his gift and its true poten­
tial. 

In 1997, "Good Will Hunting" made it 
to the big screen and grossed $225 mil­
lion worldwide, making it the highest 
grossing Miramax picture until 
"Chicago" in 2002. 
Critics loved the film not only for the 
writing, but also because of the superb 
acting from Damon, Affleck and sup­
porting actors including Robin Williams 
and Stellan Skarsgard ("Amistad"). 
"Good Will Hunting" won two Academy 
Awards -Best Supporting Actor 
(Robin Williams) and Best Original 
Screenplay. 
After their success with "Good Will Hunting," Matt and Ben immediately · became two of the most well known ·· actors in Hollywood. 
They acted together in several more 
films, including "Dogma," "Jay and 
Silent Bob Strike Back" and "Jersey 
Girl." Beyond this, however, the acting 
careers of the friends began to take dif­
ferent paths. 
Affleck chose roles in big budget 
blockbusters such as "Armageddon," 
"Pearl Harbor" and "Daredevil." 
Damon, on the other hand, picked proj­
ects based on the director and made 
movies such as "Rounders," "The 
Talented Mr. Ripley," "All The Pretty 
Horses" and "Syriana." 
While Damon made his share of big 
budget movies like "Ocean's Eleven" 
and "The Bourne Identity," these still 
tended to be more serious films than 
Affleck's. 
Although their careers diverged, the 
two remain good friends and still work 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Scene Writer 
Running last week at the DPAC's Philbin Theater. "Matt and Ben" was a sweetly satiric one-act romp into the fictional private lives of its two famous protagonists when they happened upon "Good Will Hunting" -or rather, when "Will Hunting" happened upon them. 
The play opened with Ben Affleck (Nathaniel Grams) and Matt Damon (Carly Vandewalle) in Ben's apartment, as Ben painstakingly attempts to adapt 
J.D. Salinger's "Catcher in the Rye" for the screen, line by literal line. The ban­tering relationship set up by Grams and Vandewalle here lent the play a fun, deeply felt camaraderie between the two that never let up, despite an erratic and hysterical fight scene, as well as visits from both Gwyneth Paltrow and Salinger himself (por­trayed by Grams and Vandewalle, respectively). 
Both the play's action and sense of humor were jumpstarted by one unlikely event. After fighting with each other and the audience, Matt and Ben are shocked when a stuffed manila envelope, containing a certain verbose but inspired script, falls from the sky, out of the hands of fate and into Ben's apartment. 
What the two do with the work, and how it impacts their lives in the imme­diate and later future, were the issues at the center of "Matt and Ben," and proved to be the basts-~df" a great evening of theater. 
The set of "Matt and Ben" was per­fect for a Bostonian comedy, giving the impression of a Southie apartment with Fenway Park posters and an angular design that emphasized the action onstage. Littered with food wrappers, laundry, and a faded old couch, set designer Steve Hoeplinger's set aptly fit its owners. The yellowish lighting also lent the apartment a more dingy, lived­in feel. 
Along with this feel was the music chosen as an introduction to the play. Queen and the Killers greeted the ears of audience members and each song was interestingly bracketed by quotes from "Good Will Hunting," lending the audience a better sense of the work and characters in question. 
Using both dialogue and direct address to the audience, Grams and Vandewalle were able to use the play's humor and their own talents to connect "Matt and Ben" with the crowd. 
The challenge for the actors, then, was in portraying a real-life friendship between two of Hollywood's best­known celebrities, while still being both true to the work and to their own interpretations. 
"I think that with such a public fig­ure, it's impossible to not take the actu­al person into account," Grams said. For him, watching the characters' films helped him understand them, an effort reflected in his and Vanderwalle's endearingly solid performances. 
"I think we as an audience praise their friendship in real life," Grams 
~----~~-co~urte:~~~:;~; 

"Matt and Ben" is a play based on the lives of Matt Damon, right, and Ben Affleck. The story is founded on the real-life creation of "Good Will Hunting." 
said. "And are captivated by their work that much more because we know there's that real element there." 
In the end, it's through that lens of good friends that "Matt and Ben" is best seen, and for all of the play's zany comedy and tough discourse between its leads, it remains a work about the power of that bond in spite of every­thing else. 
"I think if we can learn anything from 'Matt & Ben,"' director Cameron Rains said. "it is that true friendship cannot be forged over coffee or a cell phone conversation, but over a lifetime." 
To Rains, "Matt and Ben" offers the example of Affleck and Damon in light of more than just comedic fun. 
"Can it be written off as fluff come­dy? No," Rains said. '"Matt & Ben' reminds us of what a blessing a good friend can be and warns us to the dan­gers of taking such a gift for granted." 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 

on projects together. One of their latest efforts is "Project Greenlight" -a con­test through which aspiring screenwrit­ers can submit their work with the hopes of making it into a full-length movie. 
The entire process of selecting and creating the movie would air on televi­sion before the final film premiered in theaters. This endeavor has led to two films -"Stolen Summer" and "The Battle of Shaker Heights" -both of which received respectable amounts of critical acclaim. 
Through "Project Greenlight," Matt Damon and Ben Affleck are able to help other aspiring screenwriters par­ticipate in the dream and success they enjoyed from "Good Will Hunting." Their remarkable story demonstrates the reward of perseverance and deter­mination in the typically cutthroat world of Hollywood. 
A story like theirs will serve as inspi­ration to many young dreamers who hope to make it big on the silver screen. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 18 Wednesday, April 19, 2006 

A Great Aw-ful Filn1 

A eouple of weeks ago I inad­vertently gave "The Grapes of Wrath" half a star. Anyone who actually road the article knows that it was a mistake, that no. I don't think that "The Hing 2" is two stars bettor than "The (~rapes of Wrath." Still, it got me to thinking-there's always that film. That dassic, beloved, criti­cally acdairw~d film. A 

gem of the cinema, a rarn and bmtutiful 
Don't like Godard? You motion pidurfl that probably just don't will live on fi1r genera­"get" him. Think that tions afler its crnation. Italian Neo-Realism is There's only one prob­code for "cheap'?" You lem: you hate it. "obviously have no 
lime's a story: I was appreciation of its waiting outside the depiction of life. I have Browning Cirwma a friend who slept waiting fi1r a dass Brian Doxtader through Fellini's "8 ?" screening of and I have a professor "Casablanea" to get who, without hesita­
Scene Editor 
out. As the studenl<; and the profi1ssor exitnd, orw student 
remarknd to another that it was 
the worst movie he'd ever seen. The professor turned to me and said, "Yeah. until they next week when they see 'Citizen Kane" Then that's the new worst movifl 
they've ever seen." 
Art is fickle like that. There's a huge dillerence between admir­ing something and actually liking it. And you know what? Nobody ever said you have to. As a film student, I've been obligated to see countless classic films ­some are amazing, most are good, a few are ... well, a few of them aro pretty painful. I can admire the craftsmanship. I can be in awe of the production val­ues. I can marvel at the cine­matography and the technique and I can absolutllly hate the lilm. 
For me, it's Michelangelo Antonioni's 'TAvventura," a gor­geously crafted, groundbreaking treatise on post-war Italy ... and truly one of the most boring films I have ever seen. Seriously, I don't think "L'Avventura" could be any duller. Sure, it's a social eomment on the empty, syco­phantic existence of the upper class, but the fact that Antonioni hit the nail on the head means two and half' hours of what feels like nothing happening. 
Yet I still admin~ ''I.'Avventura" very much. It's a great picture; I'm not dnnying that at all. The thing is, we're not obligated to like nvnry single picture that crit­i<~s or tlw like have deenwd a rnastPrpi<l<~e. And fllally, no film is sacmd. There are many people of varying degrees of film knowl­mlgn {professors. critics, sdwl­ars. makers, students, etc.) who absolutely detest "Citizen Kane" though they feel obligated to claim they love the AFI's Greatest Film of All Time. The same goes for "Casablanca," which to many seems trite and un-engaging. 

Art films get it the worst. The very nature of the "art" film implies a certain cachet that 
makes it somewhat 
impervious to criticism? 
tion, named "The 
Seventh Seal" as a film 
he couldn't stand. 
A couple of others that were mentioned: 
Taxi Driver 
Not really a bad film, but its impact has dimmed considerably in the 30 years since its release. A truly great film is both timely and timeless. "Taxi Driver" is certainly timely and works as a snapshot of its era, but doesn't work as well out of that context. Plus, it takes a long time for the plot to get going, which means it feels plodding in places. 

Sunrise: A Song of Two Humans 
Yeah yeah, Murnau's master­piece, the pinnacle of the silent picture, blah blah. Does nobody ever seem to notice that the pro­tagonist (cleverly named 'The Man") is completely insane? He frrst tries to kill his wife (cleverly named "The Wife") then decides to take her on a trip into town. Along the way, he feels the need to threaten people and generally act ... well, crazy. For all its tech­nical merits, the story is too problematic to work as well as it should. 
So the next time someone asks you if you like "Citizen Kane," don't be afraid to tell the truth. If you don't like a film, you don't like it and that's your right. Besides, if everyone agreed on everything all the time, what fun would the cinema be? 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 



Fear still abounds in 'Jaws' 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Scene Writer 
The bane of beach towns everywhere, "Jaws" hit screens in 197 5 and set a new paradigm for American cinema. People fled beaches in droves and packed into theaters to see this thriller from Steven Spielberg. As part of the "PAC 100". it will invade the DPAC Saturday. 
This film revolves around the small beach community of Amity Island and the new police chief, Martin Brody (Roy Scheider). After a girl is mysteriously slaughtered during a late night swim, the entire town is in a furor. The mayor, thinking of revenue· derived from summer tourists, goes against the advice of the police chief and keeps the beaches open after this brutal death. After a few more incidents, Brody, the Oceanographic Institute shark expert Matt Hooper {Richard Dreyfuss) and the burly, boorish captain of the Orca known only as Quint (Robert Shaw) set out to slay the beast terrorizing the island. 
The acting in "Jaws" is solid, but not great. However, the three men on the boat form an easily sympathized camaraderie. In a notable scene, they share stories about their scars. The cap­tain tells an old war story involving sharks which gen­erates a hatred for the Great White in question. If, while beholding this film, one finds no hatred, he surely would find fear. Like many before, viewers may not be able to go to a beach ever again. 
On the technical end of the film, cinematographer Bill Butler provides beautiful shots. The choice of camera 
angles adds an ambiance of disquiet that, although sub­tle, provides the proper framework through which to tell this story. A now famous retrograde zoom provides the perfect example of character­ization through the camera that set the standard for this particular type of camera work. 
Aside from the traditional parts of film, the special effects were like nothing that had ever been seen before. The animatronic shark, affectionately dubbed "Bruce" by the crew, effec­tively provided an element of terror. Although it may look dated today, "Bruce" has withstood the test of time. Provided belief is suspended on the part of the audience, 
this  shark still  creates  a  
"beach-phobia"  amongst  
moviegoers.  

Before 1975, the summer 
blockbuster was not the prime focus of studio execu­tives. Because of "Jaws" they now think of nothing else. The popularity of this film in the summer of '7 5 proved that if a studio has one breakout hit, it could stay in business. Now, studios will focus on a few films they think will be hits and yield an enormous sum in profits. They could lose money on every film that they release throughout the year but as long as they have that one blockbuster, they will stay in the black. Whether you love or hate the man, Spielberg changed the industry with this classic. 
This technical skill dis­played in this film along with its influence on the American film industry marks this film as a standard in what American movies would become. The special effects look ahead to the seminal effects of "Star Wars" that would take the world by storm in 1977. If one likes beaches, this may not be the film for you. However, since this is merely cinema and based on no factual shark attacks, terrified enjoyment is in order for some summer fun in the theater. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 



Photo courtesy of movieweb.com "Casablanca," considered a classic by many, is one of a group of movies that have many fans as well as critics. 

Photo courtesy of horrordvds.com 
"Jaw~" is based on the story of a trio of friends who are plagued by a killer shark. Starring Roy Sche1der as Police Chief Martin Brody, the film is one of Steven Spielberg's early greats. 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
I,. •.

Wednesday, Aprill9, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT 
Don't forget about MOVIES in the BROWNING CINEMA 
Call 631-FILM for a recorded list of this week's showings! 
-


page 20 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April 19, 2006 
MLB 

Johnson knocked out in fourth inning of Yankees' loss 
Pitcher insists no injury; Sizemore extends streak to 13 games as Indians record 20 total hits to beat Baltimore 
Associated Press lie's certainly not going to try to Pirates withstood Albert Pujols' TOHONTO -If Handy Johnson fool anybody especially if his 1Oth homer in 14 games to beat is hurt, he's not telling. health is an issue." . the St. Louis Cardinals Tuesday 
Johnson eouldn't hold a four­Catcher Kelly Stinnett said night. run lead and was chased in the Johnson might be going through Jerorny Burnitz also homered fourth inning of the Toronto Blue a dead arm pnriod. and drove in three for the Jays' 10-5 vietory over the New "lie was dragging a little bit. Pirates, who shook off an occa­York Yankees on Tunsday night. llis arm wasn't as high as I've sionally ragged start by Oliver 
Johnson, 42. said he felt great senn in the past. His fastball did­Perez (1-2) to beat the Cardinals in the warmup and shook his n't quite have the bite and the for only the 11th time in 32 head whnn askod if he was hurt. ball was staying flat in the games in Pittsburgh. St. Louis 
"I just didn't •~xeeutn my pitch­zone,'' Stinnett said. had won six of seven there the es and I paid the pricn,'' Johnson "lie throws a lot of innings and last two seasons. said. "It's just onn of thosn he's thrown a lot of innings Bay followed infield singles by garnns whern you take it on the already this year in spring train­Chris Duffy and Jack Wilson 1:hin." ing. Sometimes you go through a against Jeff Suppan (0-2} to hit 
Troy Glaus homered twicn and dead arm period. That's just his third of the season, one of Alex Hios tind a career high with part of pitching. You throw so three Pirates homers in what four HBls for thn Blue Jays. much." suddenly is a hitter-friendly PNC 
Alnx Hodriguez and Jason Park. There have been 29 (;iambi hit baek-to-back homers Pittsburgh 12, St. Louis 4 homers in nine games in what in the first for Nnw York-help­The Pittsburgh Pirates keep usually is a pitchers' ballpark ­ing Johnson (2-2) to a 4-0 lead falling behind so early and so a much faster pace than a year -but the Big Unit allowed often, it almost seems as if they ago, when 140 homers were hit seven runs and nino hits in just am bHginning every game with a there in 81 games. 3 1-3 innings. three-run deficit. No wonder No doubt the 3-0 lead was 
Johnson lasted just five they looked like a much different welcomed by Perez, who gave innings in his last start, raising team when they enjoyed a big up three runs and five hits in 6 · some conenrns about his hnalth. first inning instead of giving one 2-3 innings to beat the Cardinals "lie's honest with us. Last time up. for the first time since July 22, he was said he was tin~d." New Jason Bay hit a three-run 2003. The left-hander also got York manager Joe Torre said. homer in the first to get his first victory in his horne park "Tonight he had no complaints. Pittsburgh off to an unaccus­since defeating Washington last lie's benn around long enough. tomed quick start, and the June 21, rebounding from a 13­
5 loss to the Dodgers in his pre­vious start. 
Cleveland 15, Baltimore 1 shutout. I'm not thinking about cumstances last year. 
With plenty of backing from anything else. I was upset when Jones hit a pair of two-run his new teammates, Jason I gave up the run in the eighth. I homers, Kyle Davies pitehed a Johnson earned another victory wanted to finish it." three-hitter for his !irst career against his former club. Johnson was lifted after giving complete game and Atlanta 
Johnson took a five-hitter into up an RBI double to Brian slowed down the New York Mets the eighth inning, Victor Roberts. Danny Graves and Scott with a victory Tuesday night. Martinez and Grady Sizemore Sauerbeek finished the seven­Jones carried the offense at homered, and the Cleveland hitter. times last season while fellow Indians got 20 hits in a rout of Sizemore had three hits, slugger Chipper Jones was hurt. the Baltimore Orioles on Martinez went 3-for-6 to extend hitting 51 homers with 12S HBis Tuesday night. his hitting streak to 13 games and finishing seeond in NL MVP 
Johnson (2-0) allowed one run and Casey Blake went 3-for-4 to voting to St. Louis' Albert Pujols. and seven hits in seven-plus raise his batting average to .447. With Chipper Jones and new innings. He struck out two and Ben Broussard entered as a shortstop Edgar Henteria side­walked none. pinch hitter in the fifth inning lined this week, the Gold Glove 
"It is fun to be on a team like and went 3-for-4 with two RBis. center fielder is turning it up at this one,'' said the right-hander, The 15 runs were the most the plate once again. lie has four who spent the last two seasons scored by the Indians this sea­homers in his past three games in Detroit. "Every time I take the son, and the outburst came on and 22 HBis already this year. mound, I expect to win." the heels of a 1 0-run ell'ort one "We know they're out. but we 
Signed as a free agent in night eal'lier in Detroit. can't make excuses about it. We December, Johnson lowered his Cleveland hadn't reached the just have to go out there and ERA to 1.83 in three starts with 20-hit mark sinee last June play our game and battle with Cleveland. lie's 4-1 with a 3.04 against Cincinnati. the guys we've got," Andruw ERA lifetime against Baltimore, Jones said. where he played from 1999-03. Atlanta 7, NY Mets 1 Adam LaHoehe also homered 
"It's always fun to pitch here," With two key teammates off Victor Zambrano and drove he said. injured, Andruw Jones knows in three runs. helping the Braves Especially when your team the Atlanta Braves need power bounce back from a 4-3 loss to scores 15 runs. and production from him right Pedro Martinez in the series 
"I treated it as if it were a 1-0 now. opener. Tim lludson faces Tom game," Johnson said. ''I'm still No problem. After all, he had a Glavine in the finale on going for a complete game huge season under similar cir-Wednesday. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3\J.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Need extra $$$? I need person(s) to sell Rockne commemorative 75th LOST AND FOUND anniversary bookmarks. Call 272­
9289for more info. or visit FOUND: Rosary with blue beads on www.rocknebookmark.com Saturday, 4/8, between library and Stepan Chemistry. Call 1-5608 lv. message. 
FoR SALE 

Do not rent or live in a dorm. Come WANTED see 429 Tonti, 1/2 mile from ND 
Campus! Make your dream of Highly motivated. ethical/socially homeownership a reality. 1232 sq ft, responsible, entrepreneurial, go-3+car garage. Call Donna @993­getters with desires to make a 5060. meaningful impact on transforming the international business world 1113 N. Twyckenham. Remodeled while making a large amount of ranch, all new interior. 3bdrm,2ba $$$$. I am an alum based in w/basement. Walk to ND. Call 574­Jackson Hole and am looking lor 850-6773. students lor part time, lull time, or summer employment to work lor 2000 black VW Bug, 80k miles, new commission. Can work from home. brakes. Asking Blue Book $7900. www.effectiveexecutivecoaching.co m Call574-289-0262. 

FoR RENT 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 
3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web site:mmmrentals.com 
Contact:Gary 574-993-2208 or grooms @ourwebspot.net 
HISTORIC HOME-CHAPIN PK. 2800 s/f+base,LR wllp,4 bdrrns,study +finished 3rd fl. Full appliances + WID, 3 porches. 413 W. NAVARREI$1250+util. 574­2322167 or 574-2613184 www.xog.com/property/413WestNa varre.html 

Retail/Office Space For Lease Office Space For Lease 1733 SF at 
$1000 1800 SF at $10 PSF NNN on SR 23 PERSONAL east of ironwood, Near ND. Per Month NNN. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 
Walking Distance to ND. not go it alone. II you or someone Contact Grubb & Ellis/Cressy & you love needs confidential support Everett, Noah Davey Contact Grubb & Ellis/Cressy & or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. 
Everett, Tony Davey Gude, CSC at 631-7819. For more 574-271-4060 inl.ormation, see our bi-weekly ad in 
574-271-4060. THE OBSERVER. Beautiful refinished house. 4 bdrms 1.5 baths. C/A & WID. Ken loves his gimp Gas stove, oven, microwave & refrigerator. TICKETS Checca sucks at wiffle ball Hardwood floors in bdrrns & tile in bathrooms. Big driveway & 2-car O.A.R. tix first 3 rows. Call272-Here I come to save the day! garage. 7233. 
Happy Orthodox Holy Wednesday! Close to ND-1023 Talbot off of TOP DOLLAR PAID FOR YOUR South Bend Ave. $1 ,400/mo. FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. PLEASE Blue Gold Forecast: No snow (at Utilities not included. Need security CALL 277-1659. least we hope) deposit. 
TOP $$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX. Brady Quinn easter eggs? You're Call277-1875 Cosima 574-232-0964. talented. 
.----------------------------------------------------------------~-~-----------~~---------­




OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, April 19, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wrRE srRvrcEs page 21 

NBA Standings 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team  record  pet.  GB  
New Jersey  49-32  .605  
Philadelphia  38-43  .469  11  
Boston  32-49  .395  17  
Toronto  27-54  .333  22  
New York  22-59  .272  27  

Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team record pet. GB 
Detroit 64-17 .790 Cleveland 49-32 .605 15 Indiana 40-41 .494 24 Chicago 40-41 .494 24 Milwaukee 40-42 .488 24.5 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record peL GB 
Miami 52-29 .642 Washington 41-40 .506 11 Orlando 36-45 .444 16 Atlanta 26-55 .321 26 Charlotte 25-56 .309 27 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
t~>.am record pet. GB 
Denver 44-37 .543 Utah 40·41 .494 4 Seattle 34-46 .425 9.5 Minnesota 33-48 .407 11 Portland 21·60 .259 23 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pet. GB 
Phoenix 53·28 .654 LA Clippers 46·35 .568 7 LA Lakers 44-37 .543 9 Sacramento 43·38 .531 10 Golden State 34·47 .420 19 
Western Conference Southwest DiVISion team ' -GB I::i!':r 
San Antonio 62~19 Dallas 60.21 Memphis 48-33 New Orleans 38•43 Houston 34-47 

:;:~{{.... 
NCAA Men's B Top20 

No. team 
'::h:·.· 1 Cal-State Fullerton 26·8 
2 Rice 28·8 3 North Carolina 27~7> 4 Florida State 31-4 
5 Clemson 24·8 6 Nebraska 24·5 7 South Carolina 27·6 8 Texas 24·11 9 Alabama 25·10 10 Mississippi State 25·6 3 11 Oregon State 21·9x' 11
25·8·.,.-_.

12 Arkansas 12 13 Arizona State 25·10. 13 14 Georgia Tech 25·8 At.JO 15 Old Dominion 31·4 15 16 North Carolina State 27·9 17 17 Oklahoma 24-10 18 Vanderbilt 21-11 16 19 Kentucky 25·8 
23 20 Southern camornia 20·14 
around the dial 
MLB 

Atlanta at NY Mets, 1:10 p.m., TBS 
NBA 

San Antonio at Houston, 8 p.m., ESPN Denver at Seattle, 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -The head athletic trainer for the San Francisco Giants was told to appear before a federal grand jury inves­tigating whether Barry Bonds lied about his con­nection to the BALCO steroids scandal, a news­paper reported. 
Stan Conte, who is not related to Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative owner Victor Conte, was subpoenaed to appear in a San Francisco federal courtroom April 2 7, the San Francisco Chronicle reported Tuesday, citing three anonymous sources familiar with the investiga­tion. 

Conte is scheduled to appear before the grand jury on the same day as Bonds' orthopedic sur­geon, Dr. Arthur Ting. The grand jury subpoenaed Ting's medical records related to Bonds a year ago, the Chronicle report­ed. 
The panel has been hearing testimony for more than a month about whether the outfielder lied to a separate grand jury in December 2003 about his connection to BALCO. 
Bonds addressed the lat­est probe publicly for the first time Tuesday on his television show, "Bonds on Bonds." 
IN BRIEF 
Reds place Griffey on l!Hiay
disabled list 
CINCINNATI -Ken Griffey Jr. said Tuesday that he agreed to go on the 15-day disabled list to let his leg heal fully and to help the Cincinnati Reds with a roster predicament. 
The team wanted to put the 36­year-old outfielder on the disabled list Monday night after a medical test found an inflamed tendon behind his right knee. Griffey had missed five games at that point. 
Griffey went along even though he should be ready to play before he's eligible to return in 10 days. The move gave the Reds an opening to activate catcher Jason LaRue off the disabled list. 
LaRue, who had knee surgery dur­ing spring training, was activated and rejoined the team on Tuesday. 
"Certain things work good for the player and good for the team," Griffey said Tuesday, after a long bat­ting practice session. 

"I knew I was still being investigated, but I didn't know that was particularly coming," he said. 
Bonds added that he would not repeat what he told the BALCO grand jury more than two years ago, saying he still stands by those comments. 
"I said what I said in the grand jury testimony," he said. "That's what I stated and that's what I will live by for the rest of my life." 
Bonds was one of a string of elite athletes called as witnesses in the steroids conspiracy case. They were granted partial immunity, protected from prosecution as long as they testified truthfully. 
According to excerpts of the testimony previously reported by the Chronicle, Bonds testified that he used a clear substance and a cream given to him by a trainer who later pleaded guilty in a steroid-distribu­tion ring, but said he didn't know they were steroids. 
Bonds said Greg Anderson, his personal trainer, told him the sub­stances he used were the nutritional supplement flaxseed oil and a rubbing balm for arthritis. 
The substances Bonds described were similar to ones known as "the clear" and "the cream," two steroids at the center of the BALCO scandal. 

Morrison close to declaring
for draft 

SPOKANE -Gonzaga forward Adam Morrison is expected to forgo his senior year and declar·e for the NBA draft, according to numerous media reports. 
Morrison, a first-team All-America and the nation's leading scorer, has not commented on the reports, but has scheduled a press conference at Gonzaga for Wednesday afternoon. 
His mother would not say if Morrison was turning pro. 
"No comment," Wanda Morrison told The Associated Press on Tuesday. 
Spokane television stations KREM and KXLY and FoxSports.com report­ed Monday night that Morrison had decided to turn pro. All cited unnamed sources. The Spokesman­Review and The Seattle Times both reported in Tuesday's editions that he would leave, also citing unnamed sources. 
Kings commence firing in 
wake of missing playoffs 
EL SEGUNDO -President and gen­eral manager Dave Taylor was among those dismissed by the Los Angeles Kings on Tuesday during a major housecleaning. 
The moves came after the Kings stumbled down the stretch of the sea­son and failed to make the playoffs for the third consecutive year. 
The entire coaching staff, including interim head coach John Torchetti, will not have their contracts renewed. But Torchetti, who took over when Andy Murray was fired last month, was told he can interview for the job when the new president and GM is named. 
Kevin Gilmore, assistant GM, and Bill O'Flaherty, director of player person­nel, also were relieved of their duties. 
Even Tim Leiweke said he is stepping aside as CEO to allow the incoming presidenVGM to have full control of the hockey operations, although Leiweke will remain the team's governor. 
page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT Wednesday, April 19, 2006 
Jason Liu Todd Mobley 
Godparem; John Paul Lkhon Godparent: Sean O'Donnell 
At the Easter Vigil this past Saturday night, these 16 n1en1.bers ofthe Notre Dan1e con1tnuniry were fully initiated into the Catholic Church. At this liturgy, these 16 received the sacran.1ents of Baptistn, Confinnation, and Eucharist. Please join us in 
congratulating thetn and c~ welcoming them into our faith community. J
Joseph Tsai 


Wednesday, April 19, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
NO SOFTBALL 

No.17 Northwestern hands Irish one-run defeat 
Booth pitches 15th complete game as Notre Dame loses its third game to a ranked opponent in the 2006 season 
stranded nine base runners Lenn was up next and came By DAN MURPHY throughout the contest and at through with an RBI double Sports Writer least one in every inning that gave the team an early 2­
except for the first. 0 lead. 
A walk-off single from "We were definitely capable The quick start looked prom­Northwestern's Kristen of hitting ising until the Amegin in the bottom of the [Northwestern sixth inning when
"We were definitely

seventh inning gave the pitcher Eileen All-American Wildcats a 3-2 over Notre Canney]. we just capable ofhitting ... Garland Cooper Dame in Evanston, Ill. need to be a lit­we just need to be a hit a solo shot to Tuesday. The loss was the tle more disci­rightfield to put
little more

third one-run defeat handed to plined against the Wildcats with­the Irish from a ranked oppo­the better pitch­disciplined against in one. Cooper nent -Northwestern (30-10) ing," Irish the better pitching.,, went one-for-one is currently No. 17. catcher Mallorie on the day raising After leaving the bases Lenn said. her batting aver­
Mallorie Lenn 

loaded in the top of the inning, The team was age to .398. Booth Notre Dame clung to a slim able to consis­Irish catcher pitched around lead going into the final frame. tently get to Cooper through­A lead-off walk eventually led Canney, but faltered with run­out the game walking her to the tying run as catcher ners in scoring position. twice early and a third time Jamie Dotson drove a bloop Canney gave up six hits and intentionally in the seventh. single into centerfield for the two walks but was able to hold The Irish return to Ivy Field RBI. The next batter was Notre Dame to two unearned to take on Toledo today at 5 Amegin, who ended the game runs in her six and 1/3 innings p.m.. The Rockets (12-28) are with a single of her own. of work. also coming off of a tough 3-2 
The walk was Heather Courtnay Foster came in to last inning loss to Ball State on Booth's eighth (one intentional) silence the Irish in the seventh Easter Sunday. Freshman of the game -an unusually and was awarded the win Brittany Bargar will take the high number for the recent Big bringing her record to 16-5 on hill for Notre Dame who will East pitcher of the week. The the season. be chasing after its 27th win of senior, who threw her fifteenth The two runs Notre Dame the season in another non-con­complete game of the year, did manage to scratch across ference battle. normally averages less than came with two down in the "We know what we are capa­one free pass per seven third inning. Stephanie Brown ble of doing and I definitely innings. reached on an error by short­think we will be able to bounce 
The other major problem stop Tammy Williams. She back tomorrow," Lenn said. Notre Dame encountered at scored on the next play as Sharon J. Drysdale Field was Sara Schoonaert drove a single Contact Dan Murphy at driving in runs. The Irish into centerfield for the Irish. dmurphy6@nd.edu 
St:udy in Dublin? 
INFOR.M:ATION SESSION St:udy abroad, M"inors, Int:ernships in Dublin Facult:y available t:o ans'-Ver quest:ions 
Tonight: 119 O'Shag 7:00-8:00 pm 

Literature/History Courses 
IRLL 40306 In Their O~n Words: Intro to Irish Literature, Prof'. "McQuillan 
IRLL 40308 "Modern Irish Poetry, Prof'. Nuala Ni Dhomhnaill 
IRLL 40310 Ideology, Poetry and Politics, Prof'. 6 Buachalla 
IRLL 20109 Celtic Heroic Literature, Prof'. Fogarty 
IRST 20538 Irish Prison Literature, Prof'. O'Brien 
IRLL 30107 The Hidden Ireland, Prof'. 6 Buachalla 

...---------------------------~--~--~~ -­
page 24 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT Wednesday, April 19, 2006 
, 
' ~ 
' ' 
Class of 2006 Senior Week 
ALL TICKET SALES TAKE PLAC~ APRIL 24th &25th from 12:00-6:00 PM IN THE SORIN ROOM OF LAFORTUNE 
Saturday. May 13. 2006 BBQ @ Legends 5 p.m. -8 p.m. 
• Music by Senior artists, email nd2006@nd.edu if you would like to play. 
Sunday. May 14, 2006 
Chicago Cubs Trip! 

• Cubbies vs. San Diego 1:20 p.m. 
• Ticket Price: $40.0()'person-includes ticket, bus ride, and breakfast! 
• 850 tickets available, so we will be having a lottery.... 
• Ticket lottery on Thursday, April201h at Legends from 12:00 p.m. -6:00 p.m. Bring up to 3 ND Senior IDs. 
Monday. May15.2006 Quadapalooza! South Quad 4 p.m. -7 p.m. 
1 

Come enjoy a lovely afternoon on the quad with friends 
1 

Music, food, and recreational activities! Feel free to bring Frisbees, footballs, basketballs, volleyballs, etc... 
Tuesday. Ma,y 16. 2006 Cedar Point Amusement Park: The Roller Coaster Capital of the World! Sandusky, OH www.cedarpoint.com --184 tickets available at the LaFortune Box Office on the 24th & 25th; first come, first served 
• Ticket Price: $60.0()'person-includes entrance fees, bus ride, and breakfast! 
Wednesday. May 17. 2006 

Senior Class Golf Outing @the Burke Golf Course 9 a.m.-5 p.m.
II' t 

• Sigh-up for teams when' picking up tfcKets in the Sorin Room of LaFortune on April 24th or 25th 
• $25 per team of 4 seniors 
• Compete for great prizes! 
Massages, Manicures, and Martinis! @ Legends 12 p.m.-4 p.m. • $5 manicures/ $5 massages 
• 
Martinis available through the Legends bar at a special rate 

• 
Enjoy complimentary treats while you pamper yourselfl 


Senior Class Formal Century Center 9 p.m.-1 a.m. 
• 
Ticket Price: $25.0()' person in advance ­includes entrance fee and bus ride; One ticket per NO senior 

• 
Tickets are $30/ person at door 


Thu~day. May18.2006 ** IMPORTANT** Old to Gold-Location TBA 3 p.m.-7 p.m. 
Cubs Ticket Lottery!
• Donate clothes, furniture, non-perishable goods, books, etc... 
.. April 20th
Last Trip to the Grotto 9 p.m. 
• Meet for a prayer service at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart ··Legends 
• Performances by Notre Dame's Folk Choir and Glee Club 
·· 12:00-6:00 PM
• Blessing of class rings 
1 

All will receive Last Trip to the Grotto candle 
• Procession to the Grotto follows prayer service Swipe your 10, get alottery number, and check your email or www.nd.edu/...nd2006 to see if your number was drawn. You can
Class of 2006 shirts, fleeces, and 
bring up to 3IDs to swipe. Only seniors
pint glasses will be for sale at events 
with winning lottery numbers are eligible to
starting on April 20th!!! purchase the limited tickets for this event!
Get yours before they're gone! 


,----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Wednesday, April 19, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
SMC GOLF 
Belles prepare to host at Blackthorn 
By BECKY DORNER 
Sporrs Writer 

Fresh off a third-place finish at the Illinois Wesleyan Spring Fling, Saint Mary's looks to con­tinue its success at the SMC/Bethel Invitational today at Blackthorn Golf Club in South Bend. 
The familiar surroundings may add to the team's already boosted confidence from the Bolles' past solid performances. 
At Illinois Wesleyan, MIAA league MVP Megan Mattia once again led the way for the Belles by finishing seventh overall with a 162. Freshman Alex Sei had her best round under coach Mark Hamilton, shooting a 76 on day two that helped her to record a two-day total of 166 to finish tied for 13th. In addition to Mattia's 82 and Sei's 76 in second-round play, the Belles were also bolstered by solid scores of 82 from Katie O'Brien and an 84 by captain Meredith Fantom. Combined, the Belles fell only one stroke shy of a tie for second place with William Woods University. 
The amount of par fives, as well as par threes at Blackthorn should offer a lot of birdie opportunities for the Belles, which may be just what they need. 
"[The team needs to] tighten things up and be a little more precise around the greens in order to challenge the top three teams in the country," Hamilton said. "That will be our focus for the next couple of weeks." 

The pressure created by a course dominated by extremes -both par five and three ­should accentuate the short game that the Belles have been concentrating on lately. 
Saint Mary's is still in position for the NCAA tournament as the top two teams in each region earn a spot. 
Contact Becky Domer at bdomer@nd.edu 
IPIIDTAL~SM 

11HI fMiri~T WAV/ irO~ 

SMC SOFTBALL 

Meisle hits 
twoHRsin 
• 
SMCsweep 
Amram earns seventh shutout in 6-0 series finale, allows three hits 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's gained its ninth conference win as the team swept Tri-State 6-5 and 6-0. Freshman Kristin Amram cap­tured her seventh shutout of the season, allowing only three hits in the second game. Junior shortstop Sarah Meisle knocked in two home runs, going 3-for-4 in the first game. 
Tri-State jumped to an early 3-0 lead after the second inning in the opener. Shortstop Rainbow Bednarski scored and first baseman Ashley Kostelnik garnered an RBI double to give the Thunder the 2-0 lead. In the top of the second, right fielder Kara Graham drove in a run to bring the score to 3-0. 
The Belles answered Tri­State's call in the bottom of the third when Meisle hit a three­run homer to tie the contest. Tri-State and Saint Mary's then went run for run, bringing the score to 5-5 and sending the game into extra innings. 
"Throughout the season our main goal is to never give up," 
...
Amram said. "We proved just that-we didn't quit." 
Freshman right fielder Calli Davison ended the game, send­ing Amram home off a fielder's choice. 
The Belles carried their momentum into the second matchup, shutting out Tri-State 6-0. 
"From the moment we came back [in the first game] the momentum never died down between games," Amram said. 
Meisle opened the scoring in the top of the second when she blasted her second homer of the day to give the Belles their first run. Center fielder Laura Reline followed with a sacrifice fly to give Saint Mary's the 2-0 lead. 
Meisle continued to dominate from behind the plate as she drove in another run in the top of the third. Bridget Grall and Martha Smid followed with RBis in the top of the fourth to give the Belles a 5-0 lead. Freshman catcher Ashley Fusaro secured the Belles' lead as she homered in the top of the fifth to put Saint Mary's up 6-0. 
Amram ensured the Belles win as she struck out eight from the mound and allowed only three hits. 
Saint Mary's will play at Albion today at 3:30 p.m. in Albion, Mich. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

speedtalk~ 
Unlimited SpeedTalk Minutes 
• 
1000 Anytime Minutes 

• 
$49.95 per month 


• 
Buy 1 and get up to 3 LG UX4750 phones FREE (with 2-year contracts and mail-in rebates­


offer good through 4/29/06) 


f< US.Cellular 
1-888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.COM 


Offer valid on two-year service agreement on local and regional plans of $49.95 or higher. All service agreements subject to an early termination fee. Credit approval required. $30 activation lee. S15 equipment change lee. Roaming charges, fees, surcharges, overage charges and taxes apply. $0.96 Regulatory Cost Recovery Fee charge applies. This is not a tax or government-required charge. Local network coverage and reliability may vary. Usage rounded up to the next full minute. use of service constitutes acceptance of our terms and cond~ions. Buy one get three free requires a two-year service agreement and mail-in rebate. Allow 10·12 weeks for rebate processing. SpeedTalk"': SpeedTalk capable handset required. SpeedTalk calls may only be made with other U.S. Cellular SpeedTalk subscribers. SpeedTalk is only available In U.S. Cellular's enhanced services coverage areas. While you are on a SpeedTalk call. your wireless calls will go directly to VoiceMall. nyou roam outside of U.S. Cellular's enhanced services coverage area you will not be able to place a SpeedTalk call. SpeedTalk is a proprietary service mark of U.S. Cellular. other restrictions apply. See store for details. Limited time offer. ©2006 U.S. Cellular Corporation. 

r------------------------------------------------­page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 19, 2006 
.. 
SMC TENNIS 



Belles blanked by Albion in crushing defeat 
sets to begin the afternoon. matehes, as the Britons swept Despite the loss, Saint
Doubles matches go 

Kelly MeDavitt and Calie those as well. Melissa Dingler Mary's walked away from Mulcahy lost to Emily Stoeker did manage to force a third Tuesday's mateh with its eon­
down in straight sets 

and Katie Tornga 6-3, 6-4. set in her match against fidence intaet. The Belles also Grace Gordon and Kristen Gundersen, but every other talked about how they would By GREG ARBOGAST Palombo lost to Mara Rendina Belle was defeated in straight learn from Tuesday's match and Vieky Seiter 6-3, 6-2 and sets. for the future. 
Sports Writer Mary Elizabeth CambeJI and No. 1 Kristen Palombo lost "There's no shame in losing Tara 0' Brien fell to Emily to Katie Tornga 6-0, 6-4. No. 2 to a team of Albion's caliber, After its best vietory of the Gundersen and Betsy Kelly McDavitt so we can't season last Wednesday, Saint Netherton 6-3, 6-1. was defeated get too nega­Mary's suffered "It was by Betsy tive on our-what appeared to t 0 ugh Netherton 7-~ selves,"
"We learned that Albion m
be its worst defeat going 6(3), 6-2. No. 3 p a 1 0 b 0 Tuesday night as into the Calie Muleahy has a big intimidation said. "We the Belles fell to "It was tough going into singles fell to Stocker factor, but all of us were learned that Albion 9-0. matehes 6-1, 6-0. No. 4 Albion has a
the singles matches able to stay close in our
"A lot of the a f t e r Mary Elizabeth big intimida­matehes were elos­after winning none of winning Campbell matches.'' tion factor, er than they the doubles. " none of pushed the but all of us showed," senior eo­the dou­second set to were able to
Kristen Palombo
eaptain Kristen bles," extra games stay close in
Kristen Palombo Belles co-captain 
Palombo said. "We Palombo but ultimately our matches. had a lot of games Belles co-captain said. "It fell to Rendina It's comfort­that went into t 0 0 k 6-3, 7-5. Seiter ing to know deuce, but we just some of needed only that we can weren't able to eon-our con-the minimal amount of games stay with them." vert any of the big points." fidenee away." to defeat No. 5 Tara O'Brien 
The Belles lost all three Saint Mary's didn't fare 6-0, 6-0, and Dingler lost to Contact Greg Arbogast at doubles matehes in straight much better in the singles Gunderson 3-6, 6-2, 6-1. garbogas@nd.edu 

DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS FALL 2006 COURSES 

Classical Antiquity 

CLA"i 11111111 ANCIENT GREECE AND ROME, Mazurek, T. (MWF 11:45-12:35) "lh is first-year course introduces the gencml history and culture of ancient Greece and Rome to students coming to the subject for the first time. 
CLA"i 30022 ROMAN LITERATURE AND CULTURE, MacCormack, S. (TR 11:00-12:15) ·rh is course surveys the leading works of ancient Roman literature and examines the cultural contexts in which they were written, received, and transmitted. Students read poetry and prose from many genres, and sample works from six hundred years of literary versatility that combined enormous originality with a literary tradition inherited fmm the Greeks. ,--· 
CLA'i 30105 THE HISTORY OF ANCIENT GREECE, Baron, C. (MWF I :55-2:45) An o utlinc introduction to the history of ancient Greece from the Bronze Ag: to the Roman conquest. 
CLA."i 30799 HIEROGLYPHS AND HISTORY, Ladouceur, D. (fR 9:30-10:45) ·lh is course will focus on Egyptim hieroglyphs both as a means to reconstruct Egyptian history and culture as we If as a reflection ofthatculture. 
CLAS 40340 THE ROMAN EMPIRE: GOVERNANCE, SOCIETY AND CULTURE, Bradley, K. (TR 2:00-3: 15) ·this advanced course in ancient hi story examines the Roman Empire from Augustus to Cons tan tine. 
CLAS 40350 MYTHS OF THE CREEKS AND ROMANS, Turkeltaub, D.(MWF 10:40-11:30) 'lh is advanced course investigates the mythologies of Greece and Rome and traces their transmission to and influence on modem literature and art. 
CLAS 50100 HONORS SEMINAR, Schlegel, C. (MW II :45-1:00) 'lhe purpose ofth is course is to introduce students to scholarly methods of research and through research to r!!flect on the value of studying classical antiquity. 
Greek and Latin Language and Literature 
CLLA 10001-1011112 BF..CINNINC LATIN I AND BEGINNING LATIN II, Staff(severaloptions offered, please check Inside ND) A two~emester sequence desigred to introduce Latin, the langwge of the ancient Romans, for the first time. Emphasizes the fundamentals of Latin grammar and vocabulary, and prep ares students to read o rigi naf Latin texts. An appreciation for ancient Rom an culture is fostered through class discussion. 
CLLA 2111103 INTERMEDIATE LATIN, Staff(several options offered, please check Inside ND) ·1h is second -y car fa~gu age course buif ds on the work of Beginning Latin I and II. It combines a review of grammar with careful reading of classical Latin authors such a~ Cornelius Ncpa; and Ovid. The course improves students' translating skills, introduces methods for studying Latin literature in its historical m1d cultural contexts, and prepares students for more advanced work in the sophisticated literatureofthe ancient Romans. 
CLLA 301113 ROMAN LYRIC POETRY, Mazurek, E. (TR 12:30-1:45) 'lh is third-year course builds on CLLA 20003 and CLLA 20004, and offers close reading ofpassages from the lyric poetry ofs uch authors as Catullus and flo race. The lyric form gives precise and economical expression to a wide range ofhuman thoughts and emotions, from the highly personal to the grandly patriotic. 
CLLA 400161NTRO TO CHRISTIAN LATIN, Statf (fR 2:00-3:15) ·this course ha~ two goals: to improve students' all-around facility in deali115 with Latin texts and to introduce the varieties ofCh ristian Latin texts and basic resources that aid in their study. 
CLLA 4111122 CAESAR. Krostenko, B. (TR 3:30-4:45) ·1h is advanced course introduces s tudmts to the highly stylized historical writings ofJulius Caesar through close reading of excerpts from the Gallic War, a commentary on Caesar's dramatic extension of Roman power in Northern Europe, and the Civil Wars, a work on the destructive conflict between Caesar and his rival Pompey the Great. 
CLGR 100111-101102 BEGINNING CREEK I AND BEGINNING CREEK II, Baron,C. (MWF 9:35-10:25 and T 11:00-12:15) A two~emester sequence designed to introduce the language of the ancient Greeks for the firnt time. Emphasizes the fundamentals of ancient Greek grammar and vocabulary, and prepares students to read o rigi naf Greek texts. An appreciation for ancient Greek culture is fostered thro ll!:h class discussion. 
CLCR 20003 INTERM EDIATE CREEK, Ladouceur, D. (TR II :00-I 2: 15) ·this second-year language course builds on the work of Beginning Greek I and II. It combines a review of grammar with careful reading of classical Greek authors such as Homer and Plato. 
CLCR 301113 GREEK TRAGEDY, Turkeltaub, D. (MWF 8:30-9:20) ·1h is third-year course builds on the work of CLGR 20003 and CLGR 20004 and offers close reading of passages from the tragedies of Sophocles and Euripides. · 
CLGR 40042 PLUTARCH, Schlegel, C. (MW 3:00-4: 15) ·this advanced course introduces s tudt."!lts to the most famous biographical literature from antiquity, Plutarch's Parallel Lives. 
TRACK AND FIELD 

American records fall atMt. SAC 
Huddle sets national 
mark in 5,000 meters 
for 2006 with 15:40.41 .~ -------------------------­By CHRIS HINE Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame's Easter break was anything but restful, as the Irish sent athletes to two meets, resulting in their 17th Mideast regional qualification and the setting of both national and sehool records. 
At the Mt. San Antonio College Relays in Walnut, Calif., senior All-American Molly Huddle finished third in the 5,000 meter run with a time of 15:40.41, posting the top time in the country this year and fourth best in school history. 
Senior All-American Stephanie Madia plaeed sixth in the race -good enough for the third-best American time this year. Huddle and Madia raced against collegiate and profes­sional sprinters from all parts of the globe in the event. China's Yuan Jin claimed !lrst with a time only two seeonds faster than Huddle, while Mexico's Dulee Rodriguez crossed the finish line in sec­ond, beating Huddle by a half­second. 
At the · Pomona-Pitzer Invitational in Claremont, Calif., junior sprinter Okeehi Ogbuokiri qualified for the Mideast Regional meet by win­ning the 400-meter dash in 
54.47 seconds. Ogboukiri, jun­ior Maryann Erigha, sopho­more Dominique Manning and sophomore Brienne Davis took first in the 4 x 100 meter relay. 
Senior Laura Huarte and freshman Mary Saxer broke school records at Mt. San Antonio. Huarte broke her own record in the javelin with a sec­ond place finish of 154 feet, 2 inches, besting her former high mark by seven feet. Saxer tied Jaime Volkmer's school record in the pole vault with a leap of 12 feet, 9.5 inch{ls, good enough to win the Olymipic development division. 
Senior sprinter Ryan Postel competed in both meets, win­ning the 400-meter dash in 
47.34 seconds at Pomona, while claiming third in the same event with a time of 47.27 seconds at Mt. San Antonio. 
Senior Mideast qualifier Stacey Cowan tied for first at Pomona, in a rain-abbreviated high jump, clearing 5 feet, 5 inches. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 


Wednesday, Aprill9, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
BooKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXV 
Green jerseys not enough to give No. 1 seed red scare 
Laumann and Co. clobber Bolsheviks; Godspeed John Glenn falls to earth; Rule #76 makes no excuses, plays like a champion 
By GREG ARBOGAST, CHRIS 
HINE and TIM DOUGHERTY 
Sports Writers 
With a crowd of almost 150 people cheering them on, the Bolsheviks converted a late field goal but ultimately fell to No. 1 seed U Got a Bad Draw 21-3 Tuesday. 
The Bolsheviks reached into Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis' bag of tricks for inspiration, as they pulled off their blue Keenan shirts to reveal green jerseys they were wearing underneath. 
"To be honest, we were really intimidated when we saw the green jerseys," said U Got a Bad Draw captain Brady Quinn, reminiscent of the Irish football team's Oct. 15 game against 
usc. 
Ultimately, the boost the green jerseys gave to the Bolsheviks was not enough to make up for the talent disparity between the two teams. U Got a Bad Draw scored 10 consecu­tive points to open the game before Kevin Baker finally hit a jumper from three-point range to give the Bolsheviks their first point of the night. 
You Got a Bad Draw was able to get inside consistently with Chris Devitt and Eric Laumann, who accounted for 14 of the team's 21 points. When they weren't scoring down low, U Got a Bad Draw was usually attempt.ing alley-oops, a,nd on~ highlight moment came when Chinedum Ndukwe found Quinn for a backdoor slam. 
Quinn's alley-oop was one of the only times that the crowd cheered for U Got a Bad Draw. The largely pro-Bolshevik crowd erupted for every Bolshevik basket and heckled U Got a Bad Draw throughout the game. 
"We did our best to block the crowd out," Quinn said. "We ignored the comments, especial­ly to David Fitzgerald. He's good at ignoring being heckled." 
One of the lone bright moments for the Bolsheviks came on their second basket when Baker found himself with a one-on-one fast break oppor­tunity. Baker spun away from Quinn and hit a fall-away jumper as the crowd went wild. 
"I saw a one-on-one opportu­nity, and I clearly had the ath­letic advantage so I went for it," said Baker. 
B-3 Ballerzz 21, Asparageese 10 
The all-freshmen Fishermen of the B-3 Ballerzz, led by an infuriated Arthur Sherry on the defensive end, and red-hot Ben Whiting and Andy "soft-serve" Whalen on the offensive side, defeated Asparageese 21-10 at McGlinn courts Tuesday. 
The Ballerzz used their air­tight 2-3 defense to keep Asparageese on the perimeter and force them into making bad passes. 
"This may have been a loss, but I think we set a record for turnovers in a Bookstore game," Asparageese senior Joe Blatt sajd. 
Sherry, who played as if somebody shot his dog, occu­pied the middle of the 2-3 zone, forcing out anybody who dared enter the paint. 
Whalen had five points, despite a bloody face, and even won a quarter on a bet from a heckler in the crowd, who thought the big man could not nail a jumper. Asparageese then went to a box-and-one on Whalen to try and shut down the Ballerzz, but Ben Whiting stepped up with five second-half points, finishing with seven. 
Sean Reen added a pair of buckets, including the game winner, with the crowd chanting his name. 
"All those times I practiced in my driveway dreaming of the day I would get to win a Bookstore game with the crowd chanting my name finally came true," he said. 
But even if Reen had missed the shot, the Ballerz probably still would have won. 
In addition to the desire to win a Bookstore game, the Ballerz drew inspiration from another source. 
"We tried to get [one of our R.A's) Nathan Origer to shut up," Whalen said. 
Origer was on the sidelines with the Fisher crowd rooting on the Ballerzz, yelling out insults such as "You dribble so much you don't need a bib," that did not make sense and were not found funny by the crowds or players. 
"The rest of the guys were motivating," the Ballerzz' Brian Blacker said. "Nate was not." 
The Equators 21, Godspeed John Glenn 7 
Greg "Deal With It" Belatti led The Equators with seven points and six assists in their 21-7 defeat of Godspeed John 



KeyBank 

CiRIDIRON LECiENDSm 
LUNCHEON SERIES 
Friday, April 21 
TIM BROWN 
Notre Dame, 19811-1987 
Two-time All-America receiver at Notre Dame won 1987 Heisman Trophy. Caught 1,09'+ passes for 1'f,93'f yeards and 100 touchdowns in the NFL. 
Please log on to collegefootball.org for more information. 
Ticket/PricinS Information: 
Order tickets by phone at 235-5715 or in person at the Hall of Fame ticket counter, Luncheons begin at 11:30 a.m. at the Hall of Fame. 
Luncheons: $35 per person, $270 per table of eight R.S.V.P. by 5 p.m., two days prior to each Luncheon. Space is limited. 
South Bend lli.bune 
Discover what's in it for you. 

Glenn at McGlinn Courts Tuesday. 
The Equators used a 2-1-2 zone in the first half to keep Glenners out of the paint while Belatti dashed and dished his way through the Glenn defense to hit his big men, senior Chris "Jesus Freak" Bachner" (eight points) and senior Mike "Big Papa" Scully, (four points) down low to jump out to a 7-0 lead. 
"Our deadly shooting, quick feet and high-tempo style of play carried us," Bachner said. The Equators turned up the heat with man-to-man action in the second half, keeping Glenn at bay while they sealed the deal. 
"We played tough enough for the ladies, but not tough enough to scare them away," Bachner said. 
Belatti had similar gender­biased sentiments. 
"We played man-to-man in the second half because some­times men have to be men," Belatti said. 
Tom "Jolly Rancher" Scrace led Glenn with four points. 
"Shout out to Tom and his beard," Neander-Dan Fanuele said. "He carried us today. 
Despite a failed attempt by some Glenn members to dis­tract the Equators by wearing revealing, spandex shorts, Glenn still felt a sense of accomplishment. 
"McGlinn courts are a little sexier now that we have played here," Ryan "Big Baby" Downie said. 
Rule #76 21, 1021 We Got Robbed 6 
In outdoor games where precarious conditions can change in a moment, Bookstore veterans can attest that it's harder to win when a team falls behind early ­especially 15-0. 1021 We Got Robbed suffered that fate and failed to surmount a threat to Rule #76 despite matching them 6-6 on the game's final 12 points. 
The bigger, stronger, faster Rule #76 swarmed 1021 with pressure defense, forcing turnovers and converting transition points en route to their 15-0 charge. 
"We pushed the ball, got a lot of fast breaks and easy steals," Rule #76er Jay Dolezal said. 
Like Willis Reed and the Knicks in Game 7 of the 1970 NBA Finals, Rule #76 was inspired by the gutsy play of Dolezal, who suffered a flesh wound early on when he tum­bled to the pavement after a drive to the basket. Thanks to the alertness of tournament commissioners/amateur medics and a textbook tape job to his hand, Dolezal's resilience embodied Rule #76's "No excuses, play like a champion" motto as he went on to score six points, includ­ing four after his injury. 
"I got some good medical attention," he explained. 
Brandon Beck scored Rule #76's first two baskets en route to a game-high seven points. 
1021er Vik Deendyal was happy with his team's overall tournament performance, but he said his squad was out­manned from the start of Tuesday's game. 
"We played well the first game because the size matchup was closer," he said. "This game was unfair -they were just so much bigger." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at 
garbogas@nd.edn, Chris Hine at 
chine@nd.edu and Tim 
Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 


page 28 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 19, 2006 
but Foote's two were key in her teams in the Big East who play 
Hubschmann's team-high three chase to be the most prolific women's lacrosse, only the reg­
scores. ofli:msive player in Notre Dame ular season winner goes to the 

Golden 

Rocky 
Just before the half, the Falcons continued from page 32 history. NCAA tournament and with the 
continued from page 32 made a critical run, connectingFoote's two goals pushed her loss to Georgetown, Notre Dame 
on three late air strikes to take isfied to just play them dose." total to 51 on the season, giving is hoping for some outside assis­
despite playing even statistically momentum, including one with Others on the Notre Dame her the most ever by an Irish tance. 
.. 
against the Pioneers all day, fell two seconds left that came shortly squad were more optimistic, player, pushing her past Lael But regardless of the result, 
apart. Denver scored the first after Clagett lost possession of his especially stemming from the O'Shaughnessy's mark of 50 set Notre Dame is still satisfied with 
three goals of the quarter when face-ofT spoils, tying what turned faet that the Irish have lost their in 2001. Foote's current total of its performance recently, as the 
Zordani added his second of the into a dogfight until the end. last two games and are still 75 poinL<> in a season is already team has proven its talent 
day and dished out another to Driscoll pointed to those three ranked No.7. the Notre Dame record as well. against two top-five teams in its 
give Denver an insurmountable minutes as the turning point of "I think we played a really Foote's performance so far last two games. 
7-4 edge. Denver's final surge the game. good game, and were very well­this season has not gone with­"I think the fact that we can 
was made possible by defensive "We thought we were sitting prepared going into the game," out notice, as she has recently stay on the field with a team 
lapses in fundamentals by Notre pretty good with a three goal freshman attacker Jill Byers been named one of the 21 nomi­like Georgetown [or three over­
Dame, according to Corrigan. lead," he said, "and then we turn said. "They have killed us the nees for the prestigious times and still play them tough 
"You can't do that and get away around and it's tied 3-3. Air Force last couple of years and we Tewaaraton Award, given annu­proves we aren't just a team 
with it," he said. is just a bunch of athletes who go were able to hang in there for ally to the nation's best male with a lot of fluke wins," Byers 
Though senior attackman and and bust their (tails! and they out­the whole game." and female lacrosse players. said. 
Tewaaraton Trophy nominee Put_ worked us for those three min­The Irish goals were well The result for the Irish, "We proved we are talented 
Walsh scored an unassisted goa:r utes." spread out, with thH most com­although beneficial in showing and are coming along nicely." 
with five minutes left, Notre . Corrigan believed the Irish ing from Byers with three. their team improvement, also 
Dame could not capitalize on ' should not have put themselves in McKinney and senior attack may cause trouble for the Irish Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at 
enough opportunities to topple a position to have to come behind Crysti Foote each added two, in the postseason. With only six jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
Denver, who added their final after their early burst. Their short score shortly alter Walsh's goal. rest between games, he said, was "It was a game of making not a significant factor in the loss, 
On Saturday, April 29, Holy Cross 

plays," Corrigan said. "Th~-1 way noting that Air Form played that College is sponsoring the 2nd Annual 
they play they force you to make Friday, too -a game the Faclons 
plays or not make plays. It's an lost to Bucknell 7-6. 
Run for Friendship
,_ 
Run for Hope, with all proceeds 

untraditional way of playing. We Air Force's junior attackman benefiting Holy Cross School, grades 
knew what was coming and I Conrad Lochocki scored at the thought we were prepared to play beginning of' the third quarter as 
5 through 12, in New Orleans. Suffering 
against it. We had plenty of' he and the Notre Dame attack

Run for Humanity 
opportunities to make plays and traded goals throughout the peri­we just didn't." od until his game-high fburth goal 
substantial damage after hurricane 

Katrina, the school's rebuilding effort is 
Notre Dame tallied as many gave the Falcons a 7-6 lead with off and nmning, but they need our help. 
shots on goal (33) and more 12:46 to play in the tinal quarter. 

Run for Students 
groundballs (35-32) than the Down 8-6, senior attackman Pioneers, and Taylor Clagett won Pat Walsh connected with 11:14 To register for the SK Run for Hope, 
12 of 16 face-olfs for the Irish-remaining for his only goal to add but the game's tale was told by to his game-high four assists.
click www.hcc-nd.edu. On the home page 
Notre Dame's five saves vs. Senior midfielder Matt Karweck 
you'll find all necessary information and 
Denver's 15. assisted Walsh, as Karweck "The game came down to you recorded two assists and two 

Run for Hope! 
registration forms. 

put it in the back of the goal or goals on the day. you don't," Corrigan said. 'They The Irish could not find the net make shoL'i that you didn't make again until Hofl' notched a goal ofT
The cost to participate in the Run is 

and they win the game. We make a Walsh pass with 2:51 to play to $20, which includes a T-shirt and the 
it awfully tough on our goalie cut Air Force's lead to 9-8, and• [Joey Kempf. Defensively we do they failed to find the cage again, 
knowledge that you've helped put a 

silly things, giving up shots we despite 11 fourth quarter shots. 

great school back on it's feet. 
shouldn't give up. If we don't do On the day, the Irish managed 26 those silly things, [Kemp] will shots, compared to Air Force's save them." 34. 
So don't wait...run over to 

As a captain, senior defense-Like the Denver loss, Corrigan man D.J. Driscoll said the defense said the game -the first Irish www.hcc~nd.edu and sign up 
in general, and he personally, loss to Air Force since 1988 ­made bad decisions, like trying to came down to unforced errors on today! 
jump a pass and letting attack-offense and erratic defensive play, 
men into the crease, that led to giving up goals on "absolutely 
goals. horrendous fundamental mis­
takes." Air Force 9, Notre Dame 8 Defensively, those mistakes 
Though the loss to Denver, the were allowing layups on the GWLL's only other ranked team, crease, said senior co-captain dented Notre Dame's conference midfielder Drew Peters, and title hopes, the Irish suffered no offensively, throwing the ball immediate hangover. Turning away and turning it over after
Prepare for the Possibilities 
around two days later to battle earning a possession. Air Force, the Irish rushed out to Standing in fimrth place in the a 3-0 advantage with just over league, the Irish likely must win two minutes remaining in the first their three remaining games at half thanks to two of Brian Lehigh and at home against Ohio 

r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, State and league newcomer
Quinnipiac to remain in con-
NINTH ANNUAL 

tention for an at-large spot in the 16-team NCAA tournament with a 10-4 record. In light of the weekend Driscoll had a sober assessment of the team's per­


GOD'S IMAGE 
formance to date, citing that this is the earliest the Irish have ever had two conference losses. This all comes after last season, when 
an inclusive retreat for gay, lesbian, bisexual and 
Notre Dame (7-4, 3-2 GWLL) suf­fered its first two-loss campaign
questioning students and their friends. 
in 12 seasons and was the first team left out of the tournament. 
"We've been thinking about the weekend a lot right now," Driscoll said. "We're not a good team. We can't put together a full 60 min­utes, and that's exactly what you
FRIDAY, April 21st AND 

need." Corrigan said the character of the team and its leaders will show
SATURDAY, April 22nd 

if the team can refocus itself' to run the table. "Playoffs are looking a little grim right now," Uriscoll said. 
• campusministry.nd.edu 

"But we have Lehigh on Sunday and they're not a bad team. We
• 114 Coleman-Morse 

have to practice and gear up and Questions? Contact Tiffany 
get ready to take it to Lehigh." Notre Dame faces the Mountain 
Thompson (tthomps 1@nd.edu) 

Hawks Sunday in Bethesda, Md. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY & THE CORE COUNCIL FOR GAY, LESBIAN AND BISEXUAL STUDENTS 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
--~-~-­

-----------------------------------------------, 
Wednesday, Aprill9, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 29 
Gustafson at No. 1 to clinch the No. 71 Slavko Radman 6-1, 6-3 point for the Irish. in the top spot. 
Clinch 

CATERING SO rAST
WORLD'S GREATEST SANDWICH DELIVERY 
YOU'LL rREAKI 

SOUTH BEND JIMMY 
54570 N. IRONWOOD DR.-574.277.8500 JOHNS 
1•1•)•
MISHAWAKA 5343 N. MAIN ST.-574.968.4600 
COM 
continued from page 32 
bles] -we've changed combi­nations again several times but we're back to where we start­ed at the beginning of the year." 
Barry King and Sheeva Parbhu topped Jhonny Berrido and Damar Johnson 8-5 at No. 2 to put the Irish one match away from clinching the point. Berrido and Johnson are No. 60 nationally. 
Ryan Keckley and Eric Langenkamp, No. 32 national­ly, defeated the No. 28 pairing of Jeremy Clark and Jakob 

Keckley and Langenkamp First off the courts was King, moved up to No. 25 in the most who beat Berrido in straight recent rankings. sets of 6-1 apiece. 
"It gives us a reasonably "Barry just hit the ball too good chance to get in the big off the ground for Berrido," 
NCAAs," Bayliss said. 
Stephen Bass and Santiago Montoya fell 9-8 (7-5) at the No. 3 spot as the Cardinals avoided the sweep. 
In singles, the Irish took three of the first four matches as No. 
clinched the win by defeating 

Notre Dame vs. USC Nov. 25th, 2006 
Only 200 Reservt"ttions Available! 
•2 GAME TICKETS 
•2 
AIRLINE TICKETS {AA} O'HARE TO LAX 

•2 NIGHTS HOTEl RESERVATIONS 

•GROUND 
TRAVEL TO/FROM COUSEUM 


•CATERED RALlY THE fRIDAY NIGHT BEfORE THE GAME 
Total Package: 
$2,650 per reservation rcheck or Cashi 

GO IRISH! 
Bayliss said. "He's very steady

"We're back to 
but couldn't where we started match Barry's talent. Barry got
at the beginning of 
to the net, fin­the year." ished points . . . it was one of his 
Bobby Bayliss better matches." The Cardinals
Irish coach 
16 Bass 
tightened the 
score to 2-1 with Clark's win over Keckley in a 6-2, 6-2 match at No. 5. Keckley had spent the week battling tonsillitis. 
"Ryan didn't have much left for singles and didn't put up a lot of resistance and didn't play a good match," Bayliss said. "I think it'll be a different story [next time]." 
But Langenkamp won 6-0, 6­4 to put Notre Dame within one in his final regular season match at home. 
"Eric won 10 of the first 11 games and was up 6-0, 4-1," Bayliss said. " ... As the match looked like it was about to end, Eric's balls started to end a lit­tle bit shorter ... he had a little more difficulty winning aggres­sive points and he went from up 4-1 to all of a sudden 4-3." 
After Bass clinched the mass, Helgeson lost 7-5, 6-3 at No. 3, but No. 31 Sheeva Parbhu rounded out the match with a 5-7, 6-4, 1-0 (10-3) win at No. 2. 
The Irish take the courts again Friday for a match against Georgetown in the first round of the Big East tourna­ment held at the University of South Florida in Tampa. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

page 30 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 19. 2006 
he looked up at me after going erased the Red Storm threat second game. After being held without a hit nuts and goes 'I told you to hit it with the Irish already trailing 2-The eight-run inning included for the first four innings, the
Sweep 

out of here'.'' 0, and an inning later another HBI singles by Lilley, Bransfield Irish scored three runs in the Nettny's walk-otr blast was the runner in scoring position was and Lopez and a two-run double fifth on a two-run horne run by
continued from page 32 

first Irish game-ending home thwarted by a double play ball. by Gaston to take the 11-6 lead. first baseman Craig Cooper and State and Old Dominion. run at Frank Eck Stadium in five "It was a matter of cutting Irish starter Tom an HBI single by 
First baseman Craig Cooper years -the last one a grand down the walks and then just Thornton was catcher Sean also extonded his hit stn~ak to slam from Ken Meyer to beat figuring out the strike zone," shelled early by "You never know Gaston. 17 games af"lor bolting a honw Central Michigan on April 19, Samardzija said of his early Red Storm batters, "I was really
when these kind of 
run against Toledo. 2001. In the three-game series, inning troubles. "They swung lasting only two confident even Notre Damn ( 27 -H. 11-1 Big Nettny was 1-for-10 at the plate the bat well today. Our defense and a third innings wins are going to though we were East) and St. .John's 122-11, H-4) with three runs and live HB!s. did so well it overcame a couple and surrendering come about, but no hit early," nntornd the snries deadlocked "I know I haven't been swing­of those jams." six earned runs on Mainieri said. "We
when they do you
for first place in tlw Big East ing very well at all this series," From there Samardzija settled nine hits. Junior hit some balls and tho Irish ld"t in soh~ posses­Nnttny said. "So I just told down and the Irish bats came righthander .Jess see how it just hard." sion of the league -llllP full mysf~lf to relax, calm down and alive. Stewart came on builds your team. " Notre Dame ganw ahead of now-sneond just bn tlwre in the moment and The Irish crawled baek into in relief and added to its lead place Conrwctieul. put a good swing on." the game with a run in the sec­pitched six and in the sixth on a
Paul Mainieri
"lin just works hardnr than Manship threw sevon innings ond and fifth innings. Nettey two-thirds while two-run horne run 

Irish coach
anybody -and now lw gets up of work before being chased scored Gaston on a sacrifice scattering three by right f'ielder therl~ and has a chance to have from thn mound by baek-to-back bunt to the right side and win. Cody Hizzo and a monHmt that he'II never forget Heel Storm singles in the eighth. Dressman poked a chopper sin­"Tommy's pitch-then sent nine in his lifl~." Irish head l"Oaeh Manship allowed two earned gle up the middlo to tie the es were a little Jlat. I think the batters to the plate en route to Paul Mainieri said of Nettey. "It runs on six hits and four walks, game at 2-2. efl"ect of coming in off four days scoring three runs in the eighth. makes it all worthwhiln -it's fanning seven St. John's batters. Gaston, Nettey, Cooper and rest you could soe it a little bit," Korpi pitehed eight innings, what collnge athloties is all A two-run doubln by shortstop Dressman each drove in a run Mainieri said. "l-Ie just didn't allowing onn run on four hits about." Creg Lopez and HBI singles by during a live-run sixth inning to have it, but Jess Stewart came with six strikeouts and thrnc 
Tlw Hed Storm Prased a 4-0 third baseman Brett Lilley and open the game up 7-2. Lopez in and threw great and we walks. Irish load in tlw eighth inning right linlder Danny Drnssman in added the final two runs on a swung the bats well behind Toledo scored first as third with a five-run rally otT Notre the second inning gave the Irish hard-hit groundball to Hed him.'' baseman Seott Boley took home Damn starter .Jell" Manship and the initial 4-0 lead off Heel Storm Storm shortstop Jeff Grantham St. .John's center l"ielder Will after a Korpi pitch got by Gaston rnlilwers Mike Dury and Kyln starter Seott Banws. that bounced off the fielder's Vogl drove in a run in the sixth in the top of the fourth. The Weiland prior to NPttPy"s ninth­"You never know when these glove and into tho outfield. St. inning before Cooper and Lilley Hoekets got another run in the inning lwroks. kind of wins are going to come John's eommitted eight errors in seeured an HBI apiece in the top of the ninth on a home run 
Irish eatrhnr SPan Caston about, but when they do you see the game. same inning to cmnent the 13-7 by designated hitter Hyan 
o p n n n d llw I r ish h a If of the how it just builds your team," "They obviously helpc9 us a final. Laude. ninth with a walk ofl" Arnwnto. Maininri said. "It builds your little bit with some plays on The Heel Storm took the early Toledo startnr Mike Ellis last­
Second basnnHLil Hoss team to start believing they can defense," Mainieri said. "A wise 2-0 lead in the first off BBI sin­ed live~ full innings, allowing four Brnzovsky then stnppl~d to llw do anything and you start to gnt man once told me, 'luck is the gles by Sam DeLuca and Gil runs on three hits and taking his piau~ and lwlu~d a game-tying feelings that you have something msidue of design'. If your hitters Zayas. A four-run third inning first loss of the ynar. triple to tlw gap in Jpf"l enntnr­special on your hands." are hitting hard groundballs and gave St. .John's the 6-3 advan­Toledo lwad coaeh Cory Men is linld over tlw outstwtrlwd glovn you're forcing them to make tage and forced Mainieri to pull a 1992 graduate of Notre Dame of Hml Storm enntnr finldnr Will Notre Dame 9, St. John's 2 tough plays, then occasionally Thornton from the mound in and played on the 1991 team, Vogl. Gamel the other team will help you." favor of Stewart. which was the last Irish squad 
"Coaeh had eornn up to mn Notre Dame starter Jeff to win 1 S straight games. right bdorn my at-bat and said Samardzija surrendered only Notre Dame 13, St. John's 7 Notre Dame 8, Toledo 2 Notre Dame will look for its "I want you to fake bunt until two earned runs on 11 Heel Game2 Sophomore left-hander Wade 19th straight win tonight against you get a strike on you'," Storm hits with a little help from Notre Dame left fielder Matt Korpi earned his fourth win of IPFW at 5 p.m. at Frank Eck Brnzovsky said. "Tiwn hn actu­his dnfense in the first game of a Bransfield went 4-for-4 with two the year as Notre Dame over­Stadium. ally said, 'Wiwn you get a strike doubleheader Thursday. HB!s and the Irish used an came a slow start to beat Toledo on you I want you to hit orw out A bases-loaded infield double eight-run fourth inning to over­8-2 Tuesday at Frank Eck Contact Chris Khorey at of lwre.' I got to third base and play in the top of the socond come an early 6-3 deficit in the Stadium. ckhorey@nd.edu 


Wednesday, April 19, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 31 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS
JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 35 This puzzle's 64 Chicken cordon theme,
1 _ Brockovich, succinctly
Julia Roberts 65 Cosmetician title role 39 Gen­Lauder (boomer's kid) 
5 Mex. misses 66 Teamster's rig 10 Tom, Dick or 40 Shakespeare's Harry stream 
DOWN 14 1998 N.L. 42 Hood's gun 
1 A.B.A. 
M.V.P. from 43 Rhone tributary members' titles 

Chicago 15 Sports hiree 45 See 35-Across 2 Lecherous sort 
16 Sen. Bayh of 49 Cold war inits. 3 "Beauty _ the eye ... " 
Indiana 
50" No 

4 Famous name17 See 35-Across Mountain High in hot dogs Enough" (1970 
20 Ladies of Lisbon #1 hit) 5 Japanese 
21 Crowbar, e.g. 
beetle, e.g.
51 Underground22 "I've Got in Railroad user 6 Isle KalamazOO" National Park54 Least drunk 23 Soccer 7 Small amounts 25 See 35-Across 58 See 35-Across 8 goo from down: 30 Geniuses' group 61 Follower of inter Abbr. 

or et31 12/24 or 12/31 

9 Any ship 32 Golfer 
62 "MaraVSade" 10 Unbeatable foe 

Ballesteros playwright 11 Tel _, Israel
34 Samuel's 63 Statement to a 30 "_culpa" 46 Hand-me-down 54 Fit of pique teacher judge 12 Luxuriant locks 
33 Bard's before 47 Supposed 55 Creator of Perry 13 M.I.T. grad., 

founder of and Della36 Souffle needs

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE often 
Taoism 18 Bowser's 37 Asian goat 56 Goblet feature 
48 Nucleic acid identification 

38 Holder of 

sugar 57 Bangkok native 
19 Diva Gluck claimed property 51 Strike defier 59 Have a tab23 "Outta my way!" 41 ric he 52 Vegetate
24 Prime S.S.S. 44 Persian 60 Jazz's classification governors 53 Gallic girlfriend Montgomery 
Bl-:-!8-:+-:-fi!!'!'P!!'t:::t-:=+::::-f"!!" -=+:::+:-t-:::1 25 Probe, with "into" 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 26 Bagel choice 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 

27 Major mattress crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
maker 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 -:-trl:-t-:::-1 28 Nettled past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year) . ...,..-=+:-:+::1 29 Each's Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young companion solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your horne. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ________ State _______ Zip___________ 
HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
LUFAW I [ J (] 
@2005 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
GACIM 
j
[J [ I I
tNOOTIL 
WHE:N THE: POL.IC.E:-· MAN BOUGHT A NE:W UNIFORM, THE:







IJ I 
www.jumble.com 
TAIL-OR Al-TE:RE:O THE:--­

RAZABA J 

Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as

[J [ [) 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

A: [ OF THE ( 
I I I ][ I I J I I ] 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: SMOKY TRILL DEMURE EMBALM Yesterday's Answer:
I This was brewing at the beer maker­
''TROUBLE" 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Melissa Joan Hart, 30; Maria Bello, 39; Conan O'Brien, 43; James Woods, 59 
Happy Birthday: Don't stpp or give up just when you are about to make headway. Changes made this year will put you in a much more powerful position as the year comes to a close. Your numbers are 2, 13, 28, 31, 32,40 
ARIES (March 2I-Aprili9): You need change in your life so that you can start working toward your future, making it beneficial for you and your loved ones. The more you do today, the greater your efforts will prove to become in the future. 5 stars 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Don't give up so easily. A chance to make a financial move is apparent and should be put into play immediately. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 2I-June 20): A partnership may need a little extra work today. Don't be too quick to judge. Take a unique approach to issues that arise and you will entice others to see things your wa)'. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 2I-July 22): Do whatever you have to do to avoid controversy. Bend a little today ifyou want to keep the peace. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will be in command, knowing exactly how to make things go your way. Plan to have some fun with friends or a lover. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't expect to get any help and. you will be that much further ahead. Be careful how you handle delicate situations involving partnerships. 2 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't get emotional about situations that arise. Instead, take a practical position and make your point known. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You should be concentrating on your future. Ifyou aren't happy with your current position, it may be time to move on. 4 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Don't let the little things get to you. Your energetic drive should be spent on projects you know will bring you the most satisfaction. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Keeping secrets may cause as much trouble for you as divulging what you know. Weigh the pros and cons before you make a decision. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't be afraid to ask for what you need and want. Giving back what you can in your own way will raise your profile and impress the people who count. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Things could go either way today, making it vital that you keep a watchful eye on everyone and everything. Someone may be trying to make you look bad. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are intense, to the point and disciplined. You set your goals and follow through, no matter what. You are willing to do what you can for those in need but anger quickly when someone takes advantage. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 


THE OBSERVER 











PORTS
~ednesday, April 19, 2006 
page 32 
lACROSSE 

No time to re-lax 
Golden goal lifts the Hoyas in Big East win 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
No. H Notre Dame lost il'i sec­ond heartbreaker in a row Saturday, as a Coco Stanwick shot eked past Irish goalie Carol Dixon 3H seeonds into the third overtime to give No. 4 Georgetown the 11-10 Big East win. 
After losing a tough game to Duke last weekend, the Irish (1 0­3, 2-1 Big East) were unable to takn the odge in the dose eontest with the lloyas (9-2, 3-0), allow­ing two unanswered goals at the end or regulation and then the Stanwick overtime winner. 
"It was definitely a h!~artbrnak­er, beeauso we went in them to win," sophomore attackt~r Caitlin McKinney said. "We weren't sat-
see GOLDEN/page 28 

Irish could struggle to make tournament after dropping two league games in Colorado trip 

By TrM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
Playing in the middle of the mountainous Colorado terrain, Notre l>amo sutlernd iL'i rockiest stretch of tlw year this weekend. The Irish (7-4, 1-2 GWLL) dropped two eritieal eonference games with an H-5 defeat at Denver Friday and 9-H loss to Air Force in Colorado Springs Sunday, dropping from No.9 to No. 19 in the USIIA Coaches Poll. 

The losses dethroned the Irish from their first place tie for the league lead to fourth in the standings behind Denver, Air Foree and Ohio State, who are all tied with a 2-0 GWLL record. 
Friday's matchup against Denver, who rose from No. 18 to No. 15 after the win, amounted to a battle of unanswered streaks, as the Pioneers' fifth­highest scoring offense in the nation sprung ahead to a 3-0 lead at the end of the first quar­ter with two goals from sopho­more midfielder Miehael Goltra. 
"They come after you," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. "You can't not have them come after you. You know they are coming." 
Notre Dame exploited Denver's aggressiveness in the second quarter, storming ahead for three consecutive second quarter goals, led by freshman attack­man Ryan Hoffs team-high two goals that began the game-tying rally. The Irish made it four straight scores three minutes into the second half when Drew Peters scored his second goal of the season on a pass from senior point-leader, attackman Brian 1-Iubsehmann, to take their only lead of the game 4-3 before Denver's Ryan Zordani tied the game at four as both teams start­ed the fourth quarter. 

In the fourth quarter the Irish, 
see ROCKY/page 28 
BASEBALL 

Team tied for nation's best streak 
Irish record 18th win and tie school record 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame center fielder Alex Nettey rounded third base with his arms in the air and was surrounded by a mob of green 
jerseys as he stepped on home plate Saturday in a series-ending victory over St. John's. 
The Irish senior had just pulled a 


first pitch, Nettey split-finger fastball from Hed Storm pitcher Hieh Armento over the left field fence for a walk-ofT, two-run homer in the bottom of the ninth inning. The 7-5 win capped ofT a three-game sweep of' St. John's-including 9-2 and 13-7 wins during a Thursday doubleheader at Frank Eck Stadium. 
An H-2 win Tuesday over Toledo stretched Notre Dame's win streak to 18 games -tied for both the longest in Notre Dame history and college base­ball this season with Mississippi 
see STREAK/page 30 
MEN'S TENNIS 


Irish beat Louisville for top seed in tournament 

:?::.;:',-.; 
~ ~~<' 
-~A=;~r 
.@: '

g,G:) 
>,

FAST 
,... rWHHI. ,,• .._~ 
M41D 
JfJ. ~.Qr>l!l!_ 
"-'-~~} ··----·-~-i 
r-·----~ 




~~J~­
·, 
1.3111 


Both men and women's teams earn No.1 berths in conference 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame proved itself to be the beast of the East with a decisive 5-2 win over Louisville Thursday, earning the top seed in this weekend's conference tournament. 
The Irish improved to 15-7 (1-0) and fin­ished a perfect 8-0 at home. 
After dropping seven doubles points in its last nine matches, Notre Dame took the point in tight competition. 
"I think it's good for our confidence," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "We actu­ally have worked very hard on [our dou­
see CLINCH/page 29 

.... 
en 
BOOKSTORE BBALL 
SMC TENNIS 
TRACK AND FIELD 

SMC GOLF 
SMC SOFTBALL 
NO SOFTBALL 
c.,:) U Got a Bad Draw 

Albion 9 
Irish set records 

Belles take two 
Northwestern 3 

SMC/Bethel
z 21 

Saint Mary's 0 
at tournaments 

Invitational 
from Tri-State 
Notre Dame 2 
Bolsheviks 3 

t: s LLI 
The Belles fell to 5-2 in 
Senior Molly Huddle 

The Belles look to put 
Saint Mary's won 
The loss to the 
The No. 1 seed topped 

the MIAA after losing to 
recorded the fastest time 

themselves in prime 
both games of Tuesday's 
Wildcats is Notre
=: 
the Bolsheviks, despite 

first-place Albion. 
in the country in the SK. 

Dame's third defeat by a 
position for the NCAA 
doubleheader by scores 
the underdogs' green 

of 6-5,6-0. 
tournament today. 
ranked opponent. 

a..=:c 
jerseys.

en page 27 
page 26 
page 26 

page 25 
page 23
page 25 







