
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 73 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25,2006 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Jenkins maintains stance, invites response 
Packed house greets his second address 
By MADDIE HANNA A<MJCi.uc Nt•ws Editor 
llnivnrsity l'rnsidnnt Fatlwr .John .Jnnkins dPIVPd into the rPiationship bntwl\t)n aradem­ic fnwdom and Notn~ Damn's Catholic charartPr with morn than 500 studPnts Tunsday in an addrPss almost idtHttieal to tlw orw hn dPiivPn·d Monday to farulty, using a frank and nxplanatory torw lw latnr said was rwrnssary to r.onf'ront thn WPighty topic. 
"I think it was important I said what I thought." .Jpnkins told Thn Ohstq·vnr Ttwsday. "I don't want to romn out and say, 'I!Pally, I'm undPridnd,' hPrausn that would lw dishon­PSt ... To say I don't havn any vinws on this, that would be dishorwst." 
sec JENKINS/page 8 


Speeches evidence of leadership emergence 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN, CLAIRE HEININGER and MADDIE HANNA News Writers 
Introducing UnivPrsity PrnsidPnt. Fatlwr .John .Jnnkins to llwir respective constitunndns Monday and Tuesday. Provost Thomas Burish and studnnt body president Davn Baron oiTPrnd thn audinnees tho same promisn. 
"In short, we'll lnarn a lot about Fatlwr .Jonkins as our lPader," Burish said. 
"We're about to witrwss thn styln of IPadnrship of our HPW University presidPnt.,'' Baron echond thn rwxt day. 
And that's nxadly what's hap­pnnnd in tlw Notrn Damn com­munity in the past 4H hours. as the lirst-ynar prnsident usnd two 
see ANALYSIS/page 1 0 

University president's remarks met with applause, criticism from a divided student crowd 
tives and accused of being blinked back tears after remotely begun to address this even as Pmboldened studonts 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
ovnrly con-speaking during the question­epidemic and this population from all corners of tho A,sistJn! News Ediror 
enrnnd with See Also and -answer session that fol­as the Vagina Monologues Univ1~rsity peppered him with Notrn Darm~·s lowed Jenkins' talk. have." quostions and accusations. 
"Students

Univnrsity l'rnsident Father appearance, "My guess is that you have Redfield has been a strong Studnnt Jnf'l' Hall asked .John .Jmtkins' Ttwsday address .Jenkins respond to not witnessed the pain as inti­voice for feminists at Notre .Jenkins to elarify his stancn on to studnnts on aeadnrnir free­repeatedly mately as I and so many other Dame. She organized the why the Vagina Monologues
Father John

dom and Catholic character promised to women have -that one in Vagina Monologues for the last should not be allowed on cam­garnen~d no lnss eritidsm and listen to all Jenkins' four women will graduate two years and crafted the pus. .Jenkins replied that the 1~ontrovnrsy than did his opinions from this University having Campus Life Council resolution namn associated with tlw
address" 

spnneh to thn faculty a day before dnliv­been raped," Hedlield said. "In that created the Gender event could seem to lw narlinr. nring a final pagesB and 9 my several years of involve­Helations Center. endorsed by the Univt~rsity. Bngged not to shut down policy. ment in this issue hero, I have Jenkins kept his composure eontrovnrsial student initia-Senior Kaitlyn Hedfield seen no movement that has and managed several smiles, see STUDENTS/page <J 

Mcllduff-Seifert victorious in close election 
Winning ticket ready to deliver on promises 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Sainr Mary's Editor 
l'ropellml by strong leader­ship experinnce and a wealth of specific proposals, junior Susan Me lid u ff and sopho­more Maggie Seifert were dncted Saint Mary's student body president and vice presi­dent in a dose election Monday. 
The winning ticket garnered 21-17 votns, or 54 porcent. while their opponents, junior Amanda Shropshire and soph­omore Annie Davis, earned 2:~6 votes, or 44 pnrennt. A total of 532 studnnts voted, reprosnnting 36 porcent of the student body, a statistic com­parable to last ynar's 3H per­cnnt votor participation. There wnre nino abstontions. 
Thn candidatns were not allowed to campaign Monday as students east their votos 
see VICTORS/page 4 



Shropshire, Davis to seek alternative roles 
By KELLY MEEHAN Assistanr News Editor 
The promise "to gnt down and dirty" to organizn studnnt government was not enough to sway tlw Saint Mary's stu­dent body to elect Amanda Shropshire and Annio Davis as thnir student body presi­dent and vice prnsidnnt in Monday's election. 
Their weeklong campaign fill~~d with prom isns to increase fundraising and revamp Board of (;ovnrnancn meetings came to a disap­pointing conclusion on Tuesday morning whnn tho two wore notified they had lost to Susan Mdldufl' and Maggie Siefert by a morn 51 votes. 
"I hope thny can make a significant change in student government," Davis said. "No one really knows what is 
see OPTIONS/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Forever 21 
While many students spent the first week back to school surveying their syl­labi, buying books and readjusting to col­lege life, I was basking in the glory (or lack thereoO of turning 21. 
I have always looked forward to Kelly Meehan my 21st birthday, knowing that it 
Assistant
could potentially 

News Editor
enhance my South 

Bend social life. I would no longer be limited to the "off­campus" party scenario and could finally join my older bar-hopping buddies. 
I kicked off the weeklong celebration in style by visiting Corby's, adorned with my "I need a cocktail" pin, rather than the sometimes in-your-face-it's-my-birth­day-accessory of a crown. 
Anticipation grew as my friends and l counted down the moments leading up to midnight when I could proudly pres­ent the sometimes staunch bouncer with my legitimate Ohio license. 
I am not going to lie; initially I was appalled by the dark, crowded and smoky interior of the bar and intimidat­ed by those confident (or drunk) enough to stand on the chairs to belt out the words of their favorite Journey jam. 
But soon I let go of my inhibitions, I embraced the sometimes deemed "clas­sic" bar for what it was. I knew that with the right mix of friends, lack of personal space and terrific classic rock this could potentially be the best birthday of my life. 
The next day it was time to further examine the bars of the Bend with a trip to Rum Runners. The crass dueling piano players proved rather entertain­ing, especially when I was called onto the stage along with a fellow celebratory 21-year-old to entertain the crowd with a birthday festivity that included a some­what humiliating version of "Head, Shoulders, Knees and Toes." 
I thought I would keep things going on Thursday night with a trip to the elusive downtown hotspot "Club Fever." Apparently hundreds of other "21-year­olds" felt similarly. The painstaking hour and a half wait to enter was made even worse when I was denied entry for a sus­picious ink smudge on my hand mixed with a really bad idea. 
To make up for this disappointment of being denied, I took my business around the comer to Finnegan's, where my friend and fellow Observer staffer Nicole Zook and I were welcomed with free admittance and drink. 
My birthday bar crawl certainly was a great experience, but I could not help notice that not much had changed. There were still negative aspects like crowded rooms and creepy men, but one thing that did not change was the time I spent with great friends. 
Getting into bars and no longer being considered a minor is certainly a pleas­ure. But I realized that no matter how old you tum on your next birthday or where you celebrate it the time will be most beneficial if you are with the ones you love. 
So regardless of how you celebrate your 21st birthday, know that you deserve nothing but the best -whatev­er that may be. This birthday is about more than being allowed to buy alcohol, strangely exciting bar experiences or even the ability to wear a goofy crown for the day. It is knowing that you have made it this far and that the best is yet to come.­
Contact Kelly Meehan at 
kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
In the Jan. 24 edirion ofThe Observer, a pull quore was misrakenly arrribured on page 8 ro Universiry President Father John Jenkins. Universiry Presidenr Emerirus Father Theodore Hesburgh is rhe aurhor of rhe quore. The quore was rorrecrly arrribured in rhe acrompanying article. The Observer regrers rhe error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, January 25, 2006 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF FATHER JENKINS' SPEECH ON ACADEMIC FREEDOM? 



Paul Giesting Tammy Gillings Kathleen Hession 
grad student junior freshman off-campus PE Welsh Family 
"He had a good "/ didn't think it ''There are 
discussion ofa addressed the many issues difficult issue in issues that need to be a public forum." specifically addressed 
enough." regarding women on this campus." 




Nick Matich Micah Johnston Brian Boyd 
senior senior sophomore Keenan Keenan Keough 
'1 thought he hit "Stop arguing "Regardless of the nail right on about specific your take, it's the head." events and good that he address the brought up our issues honestly. " Catholic 

Migrants lack toilet access 
BEIJING-Migrant work­ers in south China are wear­ing adult diapers on packed trains heading home for the Lunar New Year holiday because they have no access to a toilet, state media said Tuesday. 
About 120 million peas­ants from China's vast rural areas swarm the cities for work and all try to make it home for the holiday, filling all standing room on trains and making access to the toilet impossible during trips often lasting 24 hours or more. 
"During the peak travel period last year, some pas­sengers even became deranged on their journeys because of the conditions and jumped out of the car­riages," the China Daily said. 
The Lunar New Year, which this year starts on January 29, is the biggest holiday in the Chinese­speaking world and family reunions prompt arguably the biggest movement of humanity on Earth. 
Government supports mail­order brides 
SEOUL -A rural province in South Korea plans to give financial aid to help lonely male farmers pay for mail­order brides from overseas. 

South Kyongsang province plans to start a trial program in which it will give 6 million won ($6,113) to male farm­ers who marry foreign 
women,  an  official  said  
Tuesday.  
South  Korean farmers  

have been turning to brides from other parts of Asia in recent years after struggling to woo local women, who are often less than enthralled with the prospect of rural life. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY a: 
LLI 
::z: 
!;;: 
LLI 
3: 
.... 


tf
<C 
(,) 

...I 0 HIGH 33 HIGH 24 HIGH 38 HIGH 41 LOW 24 LOW 18 LOW 25 LOW 33 

character. " 
IN BRIEF 

The blood drive will continue today and tomorrow from 9:30 
a.m. until 3:30 p.m. in Rolfs Sports RccCenter. Call 631-6100 to register. 
The band Nice Save! will be pcrlorming live at Corby's Friday at 10:30 p.m. 
The band Appetite for Destruction will be performing live at Club Fever Friday night. 
"Poetas y Pintores: Artists Conversing with Verse" art exhibit will open Friday in Moreau Art Galleries at Saint Mary's. 
Welsh Family Hall Dance Show presents: "Game Faces" this Friday and Saturday at Washington Hall. Tickets are $4 and can be purchased at LaFortune Box Office or at the door. Profits benefit Hannah and Friends. 
Three panelists will address the question: "Iraq: What now?" at 4:15p.m. Jan. 31 in the audito­rium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Author Kirsten Sundberg Lunstrum will give a reading from her debut book. This Life She's Chosen on Feb. 1 at 7:30 
p.m. in South Dining Hall's Hospitality Room. The event is free and open to the public. 
The 2006 Winter Career and Internship Fair will take place from 4 to 8 p.m. Feb. 1 in the Joyce Center fieldhouse. The event is free and sponsored by the Career Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 42 HIGH 48 LOW 38 LOW 30 
Atlanta 55137 Boston 41 134 Chicago 34122 Denver 58125 Houston 65139 Los Angeles 67147 Minneapolis 3317 New York 45 I 34 Philadelphia 45 I 35 Phoenix 67 I 51 Seattle 48 I 41 St. Louis 45 I 28 Tampa 69 I 51 Washington 48 132 

Wednesday, January 25, 2006 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
-------:::========-=---::-:===================================================================::=::..::===__:__:::.:__~======== 
Judge stresses legal responsibility 
By KATIE PERRY A"istatH News Edimr 
l.awynrs and judges should be rnsponsibln for tlwir work, William Pryor Jr., U.S. Circuit Judgn of the 11th Cireuit Court of Appnals, said in an address to the Fnderalist Society at the Notre Dame Law School Tunsday. 
Pryor spokn about specific his­torieal instances of racial and rnlihrious bigotry and mnphasiznd tlw dirn nnnd for lawynrs to exert morality in their prol'nssion in the first of his two spnnehns delivered at tlw University Tuesday. 
To illustrate his argument, Pryor employed the 1921 Birmingham, Ala. eourt case of State vs. Stephenson. Tho trial follownd the allnged murder of Catholic priest Father James Coyln by Methodist preaeher and Ku Klux Klan mnmber E.H. Stnplwnson. 
Pryor said Stephenson beeame so enrag11d when he diseoverml his daughter Huth had eonvertnd to Catholicism -thus bneoming a member of Coyle's St. Paul's Chureh -and wed a Puerto l!iean that ho shot the priest thren times on the stops of his rndory. 
A fervnnt memhnr of the Birmingham Ku Klux Klan, Stt~phenson had a deep-seated animosity for Catholics, as the Klan's discrimination extended bnyond racial lines and into the n~lihrious maim, Pryor said. 
"Bigotry in Birmingham was not only a matter of race," he said. "By 1920, anti-Catholicism was rampant, and the Ku Klux Klan nxereisnd trnmendous inllu­nnee." 
Stephenson was put on trial and charged with second-degree murder by a grand jury but was acquitted following a dual plea of 
self-defense  and  temporary  
insanity.  
Pryor  said  the  case  was  

"rigged" from the start. Four of Stephenson's five defense lawyers were Klan members and the "old friend" of one of Stephenson's attorneys replaced the initial trial judge. Additionally, Birmingham's police chief served as a national ol'licer for the Klan, and most jurors were members. 
"The prosecution never had a chance,'' Pryor said. "Klansmen in the courtroom communicated with hand gestures ... Years later, they ragged the defense didn't have much trouble [with the case)." 
Pryor said Stephenson's lead defense attorney, Hugo Black ­who later served as a Supreme Court justice from 1937 until 1971 -was not a "role model" rngarding the practice of morality in the courtroom. 
"I do not mean to condemn the eareer of llugo Black, but his ropresentation !of the easel and trial tactics were despicable," Pryor said. "A lawyer's eall is not to win at any cost ... The true ealling of a lawyer is ... tempered ~y ~oral and ethical responsibili­ties. 
Pryor said Black's tactics were "objectively wrong" when he exercised racial bigotry in the trial's closing arguments and sought to use Coyle's Catholic faith against him. 
Black said a Methodist child doesn't become Catholic without someone planting "seeds of influ­ence" and argued Stephenson's daughter was "wrongly prosely­tized" by the priest, Pryor said. 
Black also "concocted" his client's plea of temporary insani­ty, Pryor said. 
Pryor said 13 yf)ars before the Stephenson trial, the American Bar Association outlined the qualities of a virtuous lawyer and said a good lawyer adheres to the strictest principles of moral law -an obligation shared by many Catholic lawyers and judges. 
"Catholic lawyers and judges are called to follow our patron saint Sir Thomas More," Pryor said. "As More explained before !his death], he died king's good servant and God's frrst." 
Pryor later presented his sec­ond lecture, "The Role of Heligion in the Judiciary," to the greater Notre Dame community in the ballroom of the LaFortune Student Center. The forum was first in the Catholic Think Tank series, a chain of student govern­ment-sponsored presentations beginning this week to promote the University's status as a national center for dialogue con­cerning Catholic issues. 
Before his appointment to the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals in June of 2005, Pryor served as Alabama's attorney general from 1997 to 2005. The graduate of Northeastern Louisiana University and Tulane University -where he earned his law degree -has also taught at Samford University's Cumberland School of Law. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 
Meeting addresses King Day, diversity 
By PETER NINNEMAN News Writer 
Should the name of Martin Luther King, Jr. even be includ­ed in the title of a diversity meeting? This was a question posed by Chandra Johnson, director of Cross-Cultural Ministry and associate director of Campus Ministry, to her fel­low members of the committee that plans events celebrating Martin Luther King Day. 
"I wanted to see how the black people would react," Johnson said. 
Johnson worried that non­minority students would shy away from attending the town hall meeting in Coleman Morse Tuesday night partly designed to commemorate Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, celebrated Jan. 16. 
But the mix of students pres­ent at "A Call for Your Voice: The Hesponsibility of' Every Man and Woman" included about as many whitn student<> as minorities, even with King playing a central role in the discussion. 
Anthony Burrow, a research associate in the psychology department, and Heanna Ursin, a visiting fellow in the Africana Studies department, faeilitated the meeting. For the most part, however, the partici­pant<> controlled the flow of dis­cussion. 
Among the issues discussed were how thn concept of' thn Notrn DanHl f'amily saerifices diversified individual develop­ment of students, King as a model of Catholic social tnat:h­ing, how nvery raen has a stake in diversity and in what ways blacks should work towards progress. 
Several students said they thought blaeks were growing more and more agitated. This was evident in one student's accusation earlier in the dis­cussion that the reason Notrn Dame granted a day off for Martin Luther King Jr. Day might have been "just a coinci­dence," noting that the University did nothing to cele­brate the holiday on il<> o!licial day. 
The consensus among those who participated was that anger is a usnf'ul catalyst for progress, but is not very sus­tainable. 
Johnson said she believes blaeks need to gather with a positive attitude and lnarn to love eaeh othnr. 
''I've stopptld blaming white people," Johnson said. 
She also said blacks should not wait for another leader like King, because "America will take him out." 
The meeting was sponsored by Campus Ministry and Multicultural Student Programs and Serviens. 
Contact Peter Ninneman at pninnema@nd.edu 


? 

Social Concerns Festival 
Explore Local Service and Social Action Opportunities 
Januar~J 25, 6-8 pm 
CENTER FOR

r=;:F,lllNIVERSITY OF at the Center for Social Concerns 
~NOTRE DAME SociAL CoNCERNS 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 25, 2006 
Options 
continued from page 1 

going on in student govern­ment right now. It is going to be a big task to get involved with the student body and take care of stuff that is not getting done right now." 
Shropshire felt similarly and said she hopes Mcllduff and times-inefficient Board of Governance meetings and serving on both Mcllduff's and Siefert's past student govern­ment boards, Davis said "it will be interesting to see how [the new president and vice president] to work together and run BOG next year." 
Davis said she plans to remain highly involved within student government as admis­sions commis­sioner and looks 
Siefert will work "{Running for forward to work­on "everything ing with the
president] is an
they haven't College's new 
accomplished opportunity that administration. until now." many people Hegardless of Davis said she the disappointing
never get.,
wished they had loss, she is still explained their. considering run­presidential Annie Davis ning for student promises in more vice presidential body president 
detail during again next·year.
candidate 
campaigning, while Shropshire said she regrets not being able to visit students in their dorm rooms during the week. She said that they were unable to make weekday vis­its due to Davis' busy sched­ule while attempting to quali­fy for nationals in figure skat­ing. 
Shropshire and Davis, how­ever, were able to engage in 
door-to-door campaigning during the week­end, an experi­ence Davis said she valued for all the feedback she obtained from concerned stu­dents. 
"I am still going to bring [their concerns] to the table," she said. "While campaigning, we got our voices heard and became more aware of how people now think 

'The only thing that everyone keeps saying to me is the best candidate doesn't always win, and that is how I have to keep looking at it., 
Amanda Shropshire presidential candidate 
of [BOG] in a negative light, and that needs to change. Now we have feedback, we hear what [students] are say­ing, and that is what makes a legislation so successful. We have [heard] the complaints, and now we can take of them." 
After promising to tighten the methods of the some­"!Bunning for 
president] is an opportunity that many people never get. Running again would require a lot of work and a lot of time. Hight now I need to finish this year and see how [the Mclldufn admin­istration is next year and how l fit in there." 
Shropshire will finish her term as Student Diversity Board president -a position 
that she has reinvented through her organization of the College's first-ever diversi­ty conference, an increased cam­pus-wide diversi­ty awareness and maintenance of traditional SDB 
said she will not 
events.  
Despite  her  
success  as  SDB  
president,  she  

run for a second term in the posi­tion and is not sure where she 

sees herself in the future of student government. 
"The only thing that every­one keeps saying to me is the best candidate doesn't always win, and that is how I have to keep looking at it," she said. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaOl @saintmarys.edu 

Write for News~ ·call Heather at 1-.5323 

Victors 
continued from page 1 
from 8 a.m. until midnight and had to wait until the out­come was announced Tuesday at 8:45 a.m. 
"I was extremely excited, I felt as though a week of hard work had paid off," Mcllduff said. 
Mcllduff and Seifert, along with their opponents, spent the last week knocking on doors, distributing l1iers and answering students' ques­tions on everything from their definition of a Saint Mary's woman to how they intend to communicate with the student body. 
"The campaign was very intense but it was extremely fun to go around and meet all the Saint Mary's women," Seifert said. "I got to know a little more about Saint Mary's and all the different women who are on campus. It was hard work, and I am happy I did it." 
At the top of the winning pair's campaign platform was their intention to make detailed course requirements available to students before they enrolled in a class and to simplify the add and drop process. Mcllduff and Seifert also promised to ensure a strong student voice in the vice presidential search com­mittees as the College seeks to replaced Vice President and Dean of Faculty Pat White and Vice President of Student Activities Linda Timm. 
Mcllduff, who currently serves as student body vice president and was chief of staff under student body president Sarah Catherine White last year, was able to highlight her extensive lead­ership roles on campus as she encouraged students to 
vote for her. 

Seifert said she received warm congratulations from friends and family, including her two older sisters, one of whom served as Saint Mary's student body president dur­ing the 1998-99 academic year. 
"I was really excited and grateful to be elected vice president of the Saint Mary's student body," Seifert said. "I am excited to get started accomplishing everything on our to-do list." 
Both Mellduff and Seifert expressed admi­ration for 

Shropshire and 'The campaign went well. We Davis and said was very intense had minimal they hope the complaints, and
but it was 
women will par­each ticket took
extremely fun to go
ticipate in stu­extra care to dent govern­around and meet avoid any viola­ment in some tions."
all the Saint 
capacity next Despite the
Mary's women.,
year. quick timing of 
"Amanda and the election, Annie have Maggie Seifert Mcllduff said she worked was impressed
vice president-elect 
extremely to make Saint Mary's a better place ... and it was extremely evident throughout the campaign," Seifert said. 

The timing of the election, which took place exactly one week after the first day of class of the new semester, caused some grumbling on campus. With an extra week of winter break this year, the vote seemed to arrive even earlier and give students lit­tle time to weigh in on the candidates. 
Elections commissioner Danielle Lerner said it is the responsibility of the elections commissioner to sit down with Student Activities Director George Rosenb ush and schedule the elections in such a way that allows for the student body elections, Student Diversity Board (SDB) elections and Residence Hall Association (RHA) elections all to take place before board turnover. 

Having the presidential-vice presidential election so early has its pros and cons, Lerner said, but ultimately it was a success. 
"Since it was the first week back, we hoped that most students would not be too busy to participate in election activities and it would also give the candidates a chance to campaign without having dozens of other academic commitments," Lerner said. "Overall, I think the election 
by student 
response as she canvassed the campus and said she is looking forward to turnover on April 1. 
"We felt as though everyone was engaged," Mcllduff said. "It was the first week back, and everyone was a little shocked that it was so soon." 
Any change in the elections scheduling would be up to the next elections commis­sioner, Lerner said. 
"As of now, we are looking forward to the Student Diversity Board and Residence Hall Association elections on February 13 and the class elections on February 20," Lerner said.­"We encourage all students to stay informed and continue casting their votes for next year's student leaders." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 


Super  The Classic  Li Mu Bai's  Top Gun  
Game Show  "Jeopardy"  Crouching Toss-up,  "Danger Zone"  
Power Plunger  Posture  Hidden Bonus  Throttle Buzz  

Whatever your style, College Bowl is the place to put your brains to the test in a fast-paced game that'll let you prove your intellectual dominance. 
Tournament begins February 6 6pm -1Opm @ Legends 
Sign up your team of four at the LaFortune Information Desk Now through Mon., Jan. 30 
Winning team will represent NO at the ACUI regional tournament on Feb. 24 & 25 
at the University of Illinois lf~ 
...
~ 
--~~------~-­








ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, January 25, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVHt'S WIRE SERVICES pageS 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Judges dispute during Hussein trial 
BA<;IItli\1>, Iraq -Judges in the trial or Saddam llussein trind to rnmovn a newly appointl~d c·hinf judgP Tuesday, a disputn that liuTPd an abrupt postpmwnwnt of tim prm:end­ings and dPnpPnPd tlw turmoil in what was sup­posPd to lw a landmark in Iraq's polilir.al progmss. 
Saddam's lawyPrs wnrn quirk to capitalizn on tlw disarray. saying thn confusion providnd frnsh PvidPncn tlu~ fim1wr IPadnr could not get a fair trial in Iraq. Fornwr U.S. attorney gnnnral Hamsny Clark, a nwmiJPr or the dnfi.msn team, said thP trial should be abandmwd. 
Sinc:e its Or.t. I 9 start. the trial has benn dPiiJH~d by dl'lays, chaotiC" outburslo.; by Saddam, till' ass<L'isination of two dnfnnsn lawyers and a judgP 's dndsion last month to step down af'tnr learning that onn of thn dnrnndants may have bPPn responsible fiu· his brother's exncution. 
Militants pledge peace for elections 
NABI.US, Wnst Bank -l'alnstinian gunmen linkPd to thn ruling Fauth movement killnd orm of tlwir party lnadnrs Tuesday. inerncL'iing tnnsions on thl' nw of parlianwntary balloting and raising doublo.; about a nnw pblge by armPd groups in tlw West Bank and ( ;aza to hold their lin~ during till' vote. 
(!pinion polls haw shown Fat.ah and llamao.; in a c·losP race ahPad of Werhwsday's Plm:tion and both sides havc~ said they might form a coalition gowrnnH•nt. CandidatPs wnrn banned from eam­paigning Tuesday li1r a cooling-oil' pnriod befim~ thP eiPdion. 
Mushir al-M<L'iri. a llarmLo.; candidate in north­c~rn Gaza, said tlw lslamie group nxpnets to IJPmnw t.lw largest party in parliament. But it will not try t.o limn a gowrnnwnt alone, instead sePking a partrwrship with Fatah or otlmr par­tins. lw said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Army stretched to breaking point 
WA"illlN<;ToN -Stretehnd by trnquent troop rotations to Iraq and Afghanistan, the Army h<L'i lweomn a "thin green linn" that could snap unless rnlinf mrnns smm, according to a study li1r tlw l'cmlltgon. 
Andn~w Krnpinnvic:h, a retired Army ollicer who wrote thn rnport under a Pentagon contraet, mnduded that thn Army cannot sustain tho paen of troop deployments to Iraq long enough to bn~ak tho back of the insurgnncy. He also sug­gnstml that tlw l'nntagon's dm:ision, announend in llncmnbnr, to begin redudng the lim:e in Iraq this yPar wm; driwn in part by a realization that tlu~ Army W<L'i overnxtl~nded. 
Supreme Court blocks execution 
Wi\SIIINCTON -Florida death row inrnatn Chm•ncn llill won a lao.;t-minutc~ Suprmnn Court stay Ttwsday night about an hour after hn wao.; sdwdulnd to lw executed filr killing a police ofli­c·.nr. 
It W<L'i not dear if tho court's intervention would only brinfly dolay llill's execution. which had bmm schmluled fi1r 6 p.m. I·SJ: to give justiens addition­al limn to nwinw tlm~n snparatn stay rnqunsl'i. 
Witrwssns had gathnmd at thn Florida Statn Prison fi1r thn nxncution, whkh was put oil' li1r rnon• than an hour bnliwn word came from thn 
c~ourt. 
Tlw witrwssns wore sent horne after .Justice Anthony M. Kmuwdy filed paperwork that said llill's death sentence would "be stayed pending further ordnr" of the justices. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Toll Road lease plan passes first test 
INIJIANAPOI.IS -Gov. Mitch Daninls' sweeping transportation plan, whieh would allow him to leasn the Indiana Toll Hoad to a foreign company for $3.85 billion, passed its lirst legislative test Tuesday night. 
Tho Housn Ways and Means Committee advaneed the bill on a 14-10 party-line vote. with Hepublir.ans siding with the gov­ernor and Democrats voting against the proposal. Thll legislation now moves to the full House, where Hepublicans have a 52-48 majority. 
Alito garners substantial support 
With enough support for confirmation, committee advances nomination 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Suprnmn Court nominee Samunl Alito won commitments from a rm~jority of senators Tuesday, assuring his eventual eonlir­mation and a likely tilt of the court to the right. 
On the same day Alito won a 10-8 party-line approval from thn Senate Judiciary Committee, five Hepublicans announced that they would vote for his eonfirmation in thn full Senate, pushing him ovnr 50 votes in the 100­mmnbnr ehamber. 
Fifty Senate Hepublieans, plus one Democrat, Ben Nelson of Nebraska, have publicly committed to vote li1r Alito through their rnprn­snntativ~s. interviews with The Assor.iatPd Press or nnws rnleao.;ns. 
No Hepublieans have opposed him and live havn yet to declare how they will vote: Snns. Lamar Alexander of Tmmessne, Lincoln Chali~e of Hhodn Island, Susan Collins and Olympia Snowe of Mainc~ and Ted Stcwens of Alaska. 
One of Alito's supporters, Snn. Craig Thomas of Wyoming, announced after moeting with Alito in his Senate olliee. "lie represenl'i the kind of justice who will interpret the law with respect to the Constitution and not legislate from the bnnr.h. His judicial experi­nnee is second to none and I'm confident he will do an excellent job handling his eonstitutional responsibility," Thomas said. 
Twenty Democrats are publicly opposing Presidcmt Bush's pir.k to replace retir­ing Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, while the other 23 and independent Sen. Jim Jelli1rds of Vermont are still publicly undecided or refuse to say how they will votn on Alito's nomination. 
Thn only way Democrats can stop the conservative judge now is through a fili­buster, a maneuver they show little interest in. 
The final debate on the 55­year-old New Jersey jurist bogins Wedm1sday. 
"We urge the Senate to move forward with a swift up-or-down vote so he can bngin serving on our nation's highest r.ourt," White House spokesman Scott McClellan said. 

Dnmoerats are working to get a large opposition vote to make their points against President Bush. 
"I think it sends a message to the American people that this !,'llY is not King George, he's President George," said Senate Democratic leader I larry Heid of Nevada. 
Bush should have pir.ked a woman, said Heid, who urged the president last year to piek White !louse counsel llarriet Miers. "They couldn't go for her bneause she was an independent woman," Heid said of Miers, whose nomination was withdrawn under eonservativn criticism. 
Bush then pieked Alito, a 15-year federal appeals judge, former li1dnral prose­cutor and lawyer for the Heagan administration. 
Republicans say he is a perfect choice for the high eourt. Thny praise his parry­ing of Dmnoeratic attacks on his judicial record and per­sonal credibility during his confirmation hearings this month. 
"If anybody has demon­strated judicial temperament and poise and patienr.e, it is Judge Alito, And he ought to be confirmed on that basis alone," said committee chairman Aden Spneter, H­Pa. 
Democrats worry that Alito, along with nnw Chief Justice John Hoberts, will push the eourt to thn right and could even help overturn mujor decisions such as Bon 
v. Wade, the abortion rights case. 
"Hoberlo.;, who promised us humility, who promised us that hn would be looking to ehart a middle eoursn, we sne time and again that he's !~tiling in lmt!,'lln with Justiee Sealia and Justice Thomas," said Sen. Dick Durbin of Illinois, rnferring to Antonin Sealia and Clarence Thorn<L'i, the eourt's most conservative members. "My fear is that we are adding a li1urth votn to that coalition with Sam Alito's nomination. And that's why I'm going to votc1 no." 
Hoberts won the votc1s of 22 Dmnoerats last yPar ­ineluding three on tlw Judiciary Committee ­ranking Dmnoerat Patrick Lnahy of Vcwmont <L'i wnll IL'i Wiseonsin Sens. Buss Feingold and Herb Kohl. Thosn thrne snnators votc~d against Alito Tunsday. 
IRAQ 
Gunmen kidnap two German engineers 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Armed m<tl wearing military fatigues seized two German engineers from a r.ar in northnrn Iraq on Tunsday in the latest brazen kidnapping to push a foreign government into another desperate race to free its nationals. 
Eflilrl'i continund to rescue Jill Carroll, the Amerir.an freelance reporter kid­napped Jan. 7 in Baghdad. Carroll's appnaranr.e last week on a silent video­tapn aired on Arab TV marked tl1e only sign of her since her abduction. 
More than 250 foreigners have been kidnapped in Iraq since the 2003 U.S.­IPd invasion that toppled Saddam Hussein, and at least 39 have been killed. 
The German government confirmed that two young German males from Leipzig were kidnapped Tuesday and said a special crisis team was sent to Iraq to deal with the matter. Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said Berlin was doing "everything in our power so that we not only receive infor­mation, but the hostages will be returned to us safely." 

The hostages worked at an Iraqi suttn­ownod detergent plant, nnar tho oil relinery in Bniji, 155 milns north ol' Baghdad. German media said thny worn employed by Cryotnr. Anlagonbau (;mbll, a manufacturing and enginenr­ing r.ompany involved in Iraq sinee before the 2003 war. 
Polir.e Capt. Falah ai-.Janabi said !,TUn­men using two cars and wnaring mili­tary uniforms pullnd the Germans out or a car while they wem heading ll> work. 
page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT Wednesday, January 25, 2006 
THIS WEDNESDAY, 
27 Dorms THE PLS ROAD­SHOW COMES TO YOUR 



One Ni 

Dear Freshman, 

In the next two years, some you will learn of the Program ofLiberal Studies, 
Some of you will learn about the great books seminars and about many of the GREAT BOOKS, the most influential works of all time. 
You will tell people you would have entered the program had you known of it on time. 
You will tell people that you hope to read those books some day. But you probably won't. Unless.... 
You come learn what some PLS majors do with their lives, and it might be worth it to take advantage of a unique opportunity to see how the world has come to be since word was put to paper. 
The PLS Road-Show goes to every dorm this Wednesday. Be there when we visit YOURS! 

WEDNESDAY January 25'1:h. PIZZA will be served 

ROAD SHOW SET-LIST 
Dorms  Arrival Time  
Pasquerilla East Hall  5:45PM  
Knott Hall  6:00PM  
Pasquerilla West Hall  6:15PM  
Siegfried Hall  6:30PM  
Breen-Phillips Hall  6:45PM  
Farley Hall  7:00PM  
Keenan Hall  7:15PM  
Stanford Hall  7:30PM  
Zahm Hall  7:45PM  
Cavanaugh Hall  8:00PM  
St. Edward's Hall  8:15PM  
Lewis Hall  8:30PM  
Sarin Hall  8:45PM  
Walsh Hall  9:00PM  
Badin Hall  9:15PM  
Howard Hall  9:30PM  
Morrissey Hall  9:45PM  
Lyons Hall  10:00 PM  
Pangborn Hall  10:15 PM  
Fisher Hall  10:30 PM  
Alumni Hall  10:45 PM  
Dillon Hall  11:00 PM  
Welsh Family Hall  11:15PM  
Keough Hall  11:30 PM  
O'Neill Hall  11:45 PM  
McGlinn Hall  12:00 AM  
Carroll Hall  12:15 AM  


.r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tl..·iE OBSERVER 

USINESS

Wednesday, January 25, 2006 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 


10,712.22 +23.45

}ones 
•
Up: Some: Down: Composite Vol11 2,238 134 ~s 2,568,497,24 
'"'"'"}"'~

AMEX 1,826.83 -4.99 ,, NASDAQ 2.2~~,25 +16.78 NYSE 7,973.02 +19.10 S&PSOO I ,266.86 +3.04 NIKK£1(Tokyo) 15,648.89 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 5,633.80 -27.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE INTEL CP (INTC) -0.33 -0.07 21.2 NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ) +0.44 +0.18 41.4 SUN MICROSYS INC(SUNW) -0.46 -0.02 4.3 SIRIUS SATELLITE (SIRI) -3.44 -0.21 5.91 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.27 -0.07 26.2, 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.84 +0.38 45. 7( I0-YEAR NOTE +0.76 +0.33 43. 9( 5-YEAR NOTE +0.58 +0.25 43.1 ~ 3-MONTH BILL + 1.13 +0.48 42. 9~ 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.04 67.06 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.60 558.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.88 79.68 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
114.6951 EURO 
0.814 POUND 
0.560 



IN BRIEF 
Stocks rise; investor reactions mixed 
NI•:W YOHK -Stor,ks rose moderately for a second consneutive session Tuesday on strong narnings at Unit11d Tnchnologies Corp. and McDonald's Corp. 
Ttw day's earnings r11ports were mostly upbeat, although invnstor reactions wore mixnd. Unitnd Tt~chnologies, Johnson & .Johnson, McDonald's and :~M Co. all reported higlwr profits, hut .J&.J and 3M l'nll after dis­appointing analysts. 
Since earnings snason began two weeks ago, stocks have been swinging with each day's announenmnnt as investors react to companies' narnings as wnll as their outlooks. 
"Stocks arn nitlwr going way, way up or way, way down," said Paul Mr,Manus, senior vicn prnsidnnt and dirnetor of research, lndnpendnnee lnvestnwnt LLC. "There appear to lw morn surprisns." 
A dodinn in oil prices also helped stocks. A barrd of light crudn fnll $1.04 to settle at $67.0(, on the Nnw York Mercantile Exchange. 

Deadline looms for J&J's Guidant bid 
THENTON, N.J. -Johnson & Johnson took no action Tuesday as its midnight deadline approached to either raise its bid for heart device maker Cuidant Corp. or l11t rival Boston Scinntifk Corp. claim the prize after upsntting .J&.J's plans for its biggnst acquisi­tion twer. 
Asknd wlwthnr J&J, the world's most diver­sifind health-earn company, planned to make a higher bid or walk away from the deal, .I&.J's ehief spoknsman, .lefT Leebaw, dedined to comnwnt. lin also would not say whether thn Nnw Brunswick-based maker of' prescrip­tion drugs, nwdkal dnviees and health prod­uds from soap to eontaet lenses considers its final offer for Cuidant still valid. That offer amountnd to $24.2 billion. or $71 per share. 
Tlw lack of' aelion after a week of anticipa­tion and qunrins !'rom thn media and stock analysts raised qunstions about whether .Johnson & .Johnson was unwilling to pay more l'or Cuidant's tnchnology-pacemakers, implantable defibrillators and a much-antici­pated nnw drug-eoatnd stent expected next ynar-and was ceding the deal to Boston Scientific. 

Disney announces buying of Pixar 
Walt Disney Co. pays $7.4 billion for longtime partner, Pixar Animation Studios 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Thn Walt Disney Co. said Tuesday it is buying long­limn partner Pixar Animation Studios Inc. for $7.4 billion in stock in a deal that could restore Disney's elout in animation while vaulting Pixar CEO Steve Jobs into a powerful role at the media eonglom­m·atn. 
Disney's purchase of the maker of the blockbuster f'ilms "Toy Story" and "Finding Nemo" would make Jobs Disney's largest shareholder. Jobs, who owns more than half of Pixar's shares and also heads Apple Computer Inc., will becom11 a Disney direc­tor. 
"With this transaction, we welcome and embrace Pixar's unique culture, whieh for two decades, has fostered some of the most innovative and successful films in history," Disney Chief Executive Hobert A. Iger said in a statement. 

Disney has eo-l'inaneed and distributed Pixar's ani­mated films for the past 12 years, splitting the profits. That deal expires in June after Pixar delivers "Cars," and it had once appeared the companies would not renew it amid friction between Jobs and former Disney CEO Michael Eisner. Catmull will serve as presi­ence call with analysts. issue 2.3 shares for each 
But the talks revived dent of the combined Pixar Rumors of the deal had share of Pixar stock. At under Iger, who became and Disney animation stu­generated speculation that Tuesday's dosing prieo of Disney CEO last October. dios, reporting to Iger and Jobs could become Disney's $25.99 for Disney, l'ixar Disney, the theme park Dick Cook, chairman of The chairman, especially shareholders would get owner that also owns the Walt Disney Studios. because current Chairman stoek worth $59.7H, a 4 ABC and ESPN TV net­The two companies will George Mitchell will retire percent premium over works, and Pixar had dis­remain separate, with next year when his term Pixar's closing prieo of cussed a new relationship Pixar keeping its brand expires. $57.57. Thn deal was for months. name and headquarters in Jobs said he does not see announced after the mar­
Pixar Executive Vice Emeryville, near San himself becoming Disney's kets elosed for the day. President John Lasseter Francisco. Maintaining chairman, although he did Pixar gained 2.5 pnrcent to will become chief creative Pixar's unique creative not explicitly rule it out. $59 in after-hours trading, officer of the animation character was a priority in "I think there are people while Disney l'nll 14 ennts. studios and principal cre­the talks, executives said. that can do a better job at Disney said tho deal ative adviser at Walt Disney "Most of the time that that than me," Jobs told would lower earnings over lmagineering, which Bob and l have spent talk­The Associatod Press. "My tho next two ynars, but that designs and builds the ing about this hasn't been interest is really just being the deal would add to narn­company's theme parks. about economies, it's been on the board and helping ings by 200R. 
Lasseter began his career about preserving the Pixar Bob make this combination "It's somnthing Disney as a Disney animator and is culture because we all super successful and help­had to do," said Harold the creative force behind know that that's the thing ing him in any other way Vogel, a media analyst with Pixar's films. He will report that is going to determine he asks me to." Vogel Capital Management directly to lger. the success here in the long Under the deal, Burbank­in Nnw York. "It's good for 
Pixar President Ed run," Jobs said on a confer-based Disney said it will both companies." 

UPN, WB networks to shut down 
Associated Press 

The new network will launch in as WPIX in Nnw York, and KTLA in 
NEW YOHK -Two small, strug­the fall, the executives said. when Los Angeles. Tho Tribune Co. will gling television networks, UPN and both UPN and WB will shut down. It relinquish its 22.5 pnrennt stakn in WB, will shut down this fall, and will be a 50-50 partnership between WB and will receive a 10-year af'fili­their parent companies plan to form Warner Bros. and CBS, and the net­ation agreement with the now net­a new network called The CW using work will be carried on stations work. programming and other assets from owned by the Tribune Co,, a minori­Leslie Moonves, chin!' nxocutivn ol' each of' them. ty owner of' WB. CBS Corp., said the new notwork 
The announcement was made Altogether, the 16 Tribune stations will air :~0 hours of programming Tuesday by executives from CBS and the 12 UPN stations owned by seven days a wonk aimnd in part at Corp., which owns UPN, and Warner CBS will give the new network <:ov­young audienens. Bros., a unit of Time Warner Inc., erage in almost half of the country, The plan ineludns two hours ol' which owns most oi'WB. the executives said. The executives programs in prime limn each night 
Both UPN and WB had struggled said they hoped to sign up new affil­Monday through Friday and thrnn to compete against larger rivals in iates in the rest of' the country by hours on Sunday nvnning. It will the broadcast TV business, includ­the time The CW launches. also offer programming on wnokday ing Walt Disney Co.'s ABC, News Among the Tribune's TV stations and Sunday afternoons, and f'ive Corp.'s Fox. General Electric Co.'s that will join the new network are hours or ehildrnn's programs on NBC and CBS Corp.'s CBS. its flagship WGN in Chicago as well Saturday morning. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 25, 2006 

the give and take," Jenkins Students raised certain their minds, and I'm 1 00 per­involved in a couple different said in an interview with The issues repeatedly while ques­cent behind all that," Jenkins productions Iof 'The Vagina
Jenkins 
Observer Tuesday afternoon. tioning Jenkins, one being the told The Observer. "That is not Monologues'!, I think [Jenkins] "We wanted it to be conversa­fear that if "The Vagina only something I would allow, misunderstands them, too ­
continued from page 1 
tional enough so that they Monologues" are not allowed but something I insist on, that both the play itself and its 
Tuesday's address was could say what they think." on campus -as they have range of views." purpose here," Hendler said. slightly pared down for stu­While he said he has not been the past four years -But when those views run "What was really heartening dents, omitting sections seen "The Vagina Monologues" that victims of sexual assault the risk of denying the and made me feel really good geared toward faculty, but or attended the Queer Film and rape will be silenced. University's fundamental iden­today was the reassurance Jenkins' message was just as Festival, Jenkins told The Jenkins told The Observer tity, Jenkins said, problems that there are a bunch of real­clear -Notre Dame could not Observer this would not pre­that the issue of violence arise. ly smart students out there protect its "distinctive Catholic vent him from against women "When, year after year, we who are willing to teach him. character" while permitting making a fully was "always on sponsor something or a unit of That was really inspiring." on-campus performances of informed deci­'Tm very the agenda." the University sponsors some­Student body president Dave events "clearly and egregious­sion on either comfortable with "I honestly thing that appears to be in Baron said he thought stu­ly contrary to, or inconsistent event. don't know conflict with Catholic teaching, dents understood and respect­
students. I like 

with, the fundamental values "I've read 'The what we need the University's name is used ed the opportunity Jenkins of a Catholic university." Vagina students, I like the at this stage," in such a way presented and The message made a strong Monologues' a give and take.,, he said. that it seems to conducted impact on the audience. couple times," he "(Violence support that themselves
"/ was extremely proud 
Students poured into the aisles said. "There are against women] which it doesn't professional­
Father John Jenkins

to line up behind microphones some really is something we support. It's ofthe student body. I ly. and respond to Jenkins' great theatrical University President need to contin­more [about] thought we held "I was stance, focusing their com­works, Greek ue to look· at, authenticity of extremely
ourselves well.,, 
ments . on 'The Vagina tragedies, that I and I imagine character and proud of the Monologues' and the Queer have never seen performed, I'll be responding to, but what its representa­student body," Film Festival in particular, but I've read, and I feel I know particular steps are needed at tion," he said. Dave Baron Baron said. "I while others made their opin­those works pretty well. I this stage. I am not prepared "B_ut that in no thought we

student body president 
ions known through bursts of think [seeing the play] helps a to say. I'm open to learning." way should held our-applause. bit, but I don't think it's The issue of sponsorship was limit a wide selves well." 
Seemingly rattled at times, absolutely necessary. also a recurrent theme in the and broad envi-Students rock steady in others, Jenkins "The Queer Film Festival, I address and a point of con­ronment and presentation of who couldn't make it into responded to the majority of think I know enough because tention for some students, who views, events, artistic produc­Washington Hall -capacity is student questions and com­[my concern] was about the questioned if Jenkins thought tions." a little over 500 -were sent ments in a direct and engag­title ... and again, that's been students should not have the Regardless of whether they to a spillover room in ing back-and-forth manner. addressed. Because [my con­right to decide whether or not agreed or disagreed with LaFortune, Baron said, where 
''I'm very comfortable with cern] really was more superfi­to participate in, attend or Jenkins, the students who the speech was broadcast on students. I like students, I like cial." protest controversial events. addressed the president -campus cable. That's not the case at all, he especially those dissenters -lie was not surprised by the responded. conducted themselves high turnout. 
"I think views that are con­admirably, said Glenn Hendler, "I started to feel this was 
trary to Catholic teaching director of undergraduate really on the pulse of what the 
should be presented at Notre studies and associate profes­campus was talking about," 
Dame. We should engage sor in the English department Baron said. 
them, we should think about who attended both Monday's 
them, students need to and Tuesday's addresses. Contact Maddie Hanna at 
encounter them and make up "As someone who's been mhannal@nd.edu 


Wednesday, January 25, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

lions or characters that run grow in their spiritual life," that is your prerogative, and I 
counter to the teachings of Sikorski said. "Organizers of can say nothing about that, Catholicism'?" Miller asked. ['The Vagina Monologues' and but please don't take over our continued from page 1 "Yes. Yes, absolutely," Queer Film Festival( are com­freedom to express such a Jnnkins said. pletely opposed to everything work of art." 
"So you're more concerrwd While the vast majority of we're doing." · Jenkins and nearly all stu­with appearance to out­student responsn was doubt­Conversely, senior Zachary dents-from those staging sidnrs'?" I tall asked. ful. at best, of Jenkins 'state­Ortiz likened and organizing 
.lnnkins countnrnd i m nwdi-ments, views in support or his "The Vagina the events to atnly. _ remarks were still present. Monologues" to thosB praying 

Students 
"Even ifstudents

"It is sort of' "There's a bat­the later works l'or the organiz­about pnrcnption. tle raging on of the famous don't agree with ers -agreed on but it's about the campus and. Spanish artist {'The Vagina the ultimate
"I saw 'The Vagina 

intngrity of' my (supporters of' the Franeis Goya, goal to end vio­
Monologues' my Monologues'}, most
views," he said. V a g i n a whose work lence against Applause nrupt­freshman year. I Monologues( are reflected the students are women. The nd. was completely on the losing "darker and concerned that their polarization Tom Millnr, a side," said junior more contorted emerged on the
objectified. I fell freedom of speech is · 
graduate studtmt John Sikorski, aspects of best way to in CffHtli ve writ­like a vagina. " commissioner for humanity. It in quite a bit of achieve those in g. questioned Notre Dame Hight focused on top­danger." ends. t lw s e 0 pe () r to Life, who ics that words "I saw 'The
Arlna Grossu

.I en k i n s • slide­prayed outside c_anno~ do jus­Vagina

president Kaitlyn Redfield
mnnts, adding the DeBartolo bee to. Monologues'"

senior

that in ordnr to Notre Dame Right to Performing Arts "The Vagina my freshman graduate, lw and Life Center last year Monologues are year," said sen­his elassrnatns during the stag-akin to these ior and Hight to must read thnir ing of "The paintings," Ortiz said. "They Life president Arina Grossu. "I creative works V a g i n a elucidate the real cultural was completely objectified. I publicly ~ works that could Monologues." experiences of women and felt like a vagina. I felt the contain controversial material. "There is clearly a very vocal their snxuality. Unfortunately play made any sexual act 
"Do we have your assurance minority on campus involved they do not agree with appropriate ... [It] gives the that whiln w•~ arn members of' in "The Vagina Monologues." Catholic teaching on sexual University a bad reputation a program here at Notre (And there isl another group morality ... If you (Jenkins] because it loses its Catholic Damn, wn will be allowed to very dedicated to ensuring the disagree with this piece of art, identity. I feel strongly about write and publish in literary Catholic per­journals and read ofT campus spective ... to and in conference our creative offer a posi­work. without fear of' censor­tivn way for ship, nvl'n if' tlwrn arn situa-students to 

Above left, a student shares her views. Bottom left and above, audience members absorb Jenkins' comments. Right, Jenkins clarifies a point as student body president Dave Baron looks on.
•

PHOTOS BY ClAIRE KELLEY AND PHIL HUDELSON 
ending it." 
Planted on the other side of the issue, Jill Weidner, an assistant rector in Howard llall, said squelching events in contention with Catholic doe­trine risks being too restric­tive. 
"One of' the l'irst things we learn Ias assistan t roctors I is that we sorvo a very divnrse stud(mt body," Weidner said. "I'm concerned that wlwn (.Jenkinsl speaks of a limit on things that encourage a lot ol' dialogue like 'Vagina Monologuns' ... that are put on by studnnts, it sends a mes­sage that only one kind of' interpretation is permitted ­that which falls in linn with Catholie doctrine." 
Hcdlield lel't Jenkins' spench concerned and convinced that the majority or the student body feels tho same. 
"Even if' students don't agron with ('The Vagina Monologues'(. most students are concerned that their free­dom of spench is in quite a bit of danger," she said. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
page 10 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 25, 2006 
Malloy on April 30, 2004, Jenkins was then a relatively  "There really aren't many issues  to be Notre Dame's president. He declined an  
unfamiliar face to many in the University commu­nity. He greeted the  more important than issues of academic freedom  Observer request to be interviewed about his presi­dential ambitions  
announcement of  and Catholic  before  July  1,  
his election with humility, praising his predecessor  character at Notre Dame."  2005,' instead praising the steady hand of Malloy as  
and  calling  the  one of the leader­ 
Board's choice a  Father John Jenkins  ship qualities he  
"flattering request."  University President  would try to emu­late.  
"No doubt, after I  "People look to  

take this job, I'll still be correct­you to set a course, and Monk's ing myself, because you know I'll been steady," Jenkins told The be green," Jenkins told The Observer in April 2005, during Observer in October 2004, in the the fmal months of the transition. midst of the presidential transi­'Things change and controver­tion. "But you're never complete­sies come and go, but you just ly ready, and you just try to get have to be steady." as ready as you can be." When Jenkins did take ofllce 
But that preparation was test­on July 1, 2005, it was with rela­ed just seven months after tively little fanfare as students Jenkins was elected -and eight were away from campus for the months before he actually took summer. over the presidency -when he But the new president received was involved in one of the a full-blown welcome in biggest decisions at Notre Dame. September 2005, when he was 
Though his term officially inaugurated in a two-day event began on July 1, 2005, he played complete with flourishes from a role in the Nov. 30, 2004 firing cancelled classes to NBC news of then-head football coach anchor Tom Brokaw's visit to Tyrone Willingham -a decision moderate an academic forum that followed the pattern of the that was cybercast on the Web. president-elect having input on Dignitaries from across the long-term University decisions world were invited to take place during the presidential transition in the academic forum entitled period. "Why God? Understanding 
When Willingham was fired, Heligion and Enacting Faith in a athletic director Kevin White said Plural World," while Catholic the decision was made by leaders were invited to celebrate "University senior leadership, Mass with Jenkins the following and in concert with the morning. University senior leadership.'' For the first time, the Notre 
"I think it's fair to say, I report Dame community was able to see to the president and at the end of its new president on a grand the day, I serve at the will of the stage for two days as academia president at the University of and Catholicism were repeatedly Notre Dame," White said on Nov. and dually brought to the fore­30, 2004. front during the formal introduc­
After the firing, Malloy said tion of the University's new publicly that he did not make the leader. decision, and when new coach During his inaugural address Charlie Weis was hired on Dec. on September 23, 2005, Jenkins 13, Malloy told The Observer the said his one of his goals for Notre same thing. Dame was to integrate "these 
"I was not a dellnitive voice two indispensable and wholly and I was not the one who initi­compatible strands of higher ated the action," Malloy said. learning: academic excellence "The impression had been and religious faith." Specifics gained that I was, and I was sim­about how the two were wholly ply trying to clarify the record compatible, however, were not that I wasn't and had a disagree· part of his address. ment about that choice.'' About a month later, Jenkins 
The firing of Willingham -at formally addressed the faculty the time one of five black head for the first time, speaking to football coaches in Division 1-A them about undergraduate edu­and Notre Dame's first black cation, graduate studies and think people haven't really ness to engage the community in addressed it and it is important dialogue. to address one way or another," ".. .I believe that demonstrated he said. "There really aren't the type of leadership and type of many issues more important approach to leadership and deci­than issues of academic freedom sion-making to which he plans to and Catholic charactm at Notre commit himself." Dame." But not all faculty members 
but to explain clearly where he  "/ think it says a  in turn resonated with ­the faculty.  
stood and invite response from the University commu­nity.  lot ofvery good things -it says he's not going to sit  "Some faculty agree with him and some do not, but everyone I've  
The  reason  to  offin a dark corner  spoken to admired  
address academic freedom and Catholic character,  churning offgreat decisions that no  his openness and his approach," Burish said. "The  
he said, stems from a sense of  one had a part in."  most common comment I have  
duty to the University. "I do think it's  Father Theodore Hesburgh  heard is that it is a welcome !leader­ship] style and that  
been percolating, I  University President  Father showed a  
do  think  people  Emeritus  boldness and  an  
have strong issues  openness and an  
on  both  sides, I  admirable willing­ 

cheered Jenkins' style. Interpreting new leadership "Your responsibility to us as 
The president who emerged president doesn't involve accept­this week seemed to be a far cry ing the majority vote or ruling by from the man who was elected in consensus," philosophy professor April 2004 -but for Solomon, Ed Manier said during Monday's who has followed Jenkins' rise faculty question-and-answer ses­throughout the decades, the sion, responding to an assertion president's forceful addresses in Jenkins' speech, "but it does were not unexpected. involve accountability to us. One 
"I wasn't surprised at all that thing that means is there [have] 

January 26 
A Little Knowledge is a Dangerous Thing: So, Come to Meet Us! 
Office of Undergraduate Studies, introduction of advising team. Hammes Student Lounge, Coleman Morse. 
Door prizes-MP3 player, DVD player and more! 
Must be present to win. 
Contact information: 
Office of Undergraduate Studies, 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
COLl.EGE OF ARTS ANI> !.ETTERS 
to be procedures we all agree are fair for an evaluation of our decisions on how such judgments are made." 
Hegardless of the final policy issued about hosting events deemed to conflict with Catholic values and other issues of aca­demic freedom, Jenkins' willing­ness to step forward with his beliefs and engage the University community establishes a defini­tive tone for his presidency, many faculty and administrators agreed. 
"I think it's important that the president declare where he stands, and I think John left no doubt about where he stands, but also how he gets there, how he proceeds," said University President Emeritus Father Theodore Ilesburgh, who led Notre Dame from 1952-87 and, along with University founder Father Edward Sorin, is widely considered Notre Dame's great­est leader. "l think it's something that very few university presi­dents do -explain why they get to where they get -and I had to do it a few times, and I found it was very fruitful and very help­ful." 
Hesburgh praised the prece­dent Jenkins set for his leader­ship style. 
"I think it says a lot of very good things -it says he's not going to sit off in a dark corner churning off great decisions that no one had a part in," Ilesburgh told The Observer Monday. "I think he's saying this is a com­munity, this is an important fac­tor in the Catholic community to be discussed, and let's talk about it. 
"And I think everybody in this community feels ready to talk about it, whether or not they begin where he begins." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu, Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu and Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 



Analysis 
continued from page 1 
addresses on academic freedom to present an assertive approach and establish a decision-making precedent he acknowledged would characterize his presiden­cy. 
"You can go wrong in two ways," Jenkins told The Observer Tuesday after his address to the students. "One is to just sit in the office and say, 'This is what we're going to do, we won't do that' -just issue decisions from here on out. That's a mistake. 
"The other is, 'Oh, I'm just going to take in the views of some people, and never really act.' That's a mistake. That's not leadership." 
Jenkins' visions of leadership -and the University communi­ty's perceptions of him as a leader -have changed dramati­cally in the nearly 21 months since his election as Notre Dame's 17th president. 
Growing into his role 
Though he served as a vice president and associate provost for four years before the Board of Trustees elected him to suc­ceed then-University President Father Edward 

head coach in any sport -after three years at the Irish helm prompted national controversy, from various media outlets argu­ing Notre Dame was racist to stu­dents on campus making T-shirts that read "IntegriTY." The cry of racism continued through the hiring ofWeis and was revisited in October 2005 when Weis received a new contract after seven games as the Irish head coach. 
Throughout the coaching change, Jenkins made his pres­ence felt before he officially assumed the presidency in one of the most important parts or Notre Dame -football. And the public began to recognize him as the University's new leader. 
"I think people were shocked about the decision with football coaches," W. David Solomon, associate professor of philosophy and director of the Center for Ethics and Culture, who taught Jenkins when the president was an undergraduate at Notre Dame, said Tuesday. "Whatever you think about that decision, he certainly showed courage and didn't hesitate." 
Yet Jenkins also shied away from asserting himself too boldly before taking office. 
During the transition period, Jenkins said repeatedly he was­n't yet fully ready 
research, diversity, the Catholic mission and fiscal constraints. 
"Notre Dame was founded to be a university with a religious character; its statutes state that it should retain this character 'in perpetuity;' and it is a priority of mine to retain this character," Jenkins told the faculty during his October 11, 2005 address. 
But it was not until this week that Jenkins specifically addressed the interaction of Notre Dame's roles both as a Catholic institution and a univer­sity that promotes academic free­dom. 
Jenkins said he used his first real foray into extensively addressing a polarizing issue not to test the waters, 
he was being assertive" early in his presidency, Solomon said. "Many faculty members have misjudged Father Jenkins because he's a nice man and a gentle man -I've heard many faculty members talk about him like he's a weak man. Those of us who've known Father Jenkins for many years, and I've known him since he was· a sophomore. know he's very tough, he doesn't lack for courage." 
Burish, also in his first year leading Notre Dame after Jenkins chose him in July to replace former Provost Nathan Hatch, said Tuesday his boss's strong, straightforward stance had demonstrated Jenkins' 
respect for -and 
Wednesday, January 25, 2006 The Observer + NEWS page 11 
Google to censor China search site 
Associated Press 
SAN FHANCISCO -Online snareh engiml loader Google Inc. has agrnnd to eensor its rnsults in China, adhering to the eoun­try's froo-spneeh restrictions in return for better aeeess in the lntnrnnt's fastnst growing mar­knt. 
Tlw Mountain View, Calif.­basml company planned to roll out a new version of its seareh engine bnaring China's Web suf­fix ".en," on Wednesday. A Chinese-language version of Coogle's snareh nnginll has pre­viously been available through the company's dot-com address in the Unitnd States. 
By creating a uniqun address l"or China, Google hopes to make its seareh engine more widely available and easier to usn in the world's most populous eountry. 
Beeause of government barri­MS set up to supprnss informa­tion, Googlo's China users previ­ously have been bloeked from using the snareh engine or eneountered lnngthy delays in rnsponse time. 
Tho serviee troubles have frus­trated many Chinese usnrs, hob­bling Coogle's ell'orts to expand its market share in a country that expected to emerge as an Internet gold mine over the next deeade. 
China already has more than 100 million Web surfers and the audience is expected to swell substantially -an alluring prospect li'r Google as it tries to boost its already rapidly rising profits. 
Baidu.com lnc., a Beijing­based eompany in whieh Coogle owns a 2.6 percent stake, cur­rently runs China's most popular search engine. But a recent Keynote Systems survey of China's Internet preferences con­cluded that Baidu remains vul­nerable to challenges from Google and Yahoo Inc. 
To obtain the Chinese license, Google agreed to omit Web con­tent that the country's govern­ment finds objectionable. 
Although China has loosened some of its controls in recent years, some topics, such as Taiwan's independence and 1989's Tiananmen Square mas­sacre, remain forbidden sub­jects. 
Google officials characterized the censorship concessions in China as an excruciating deci­sion for a company that adopted "don't be evil" as a motto. But management believes it's a worthwhile sacrifice. 
"We firmly believe, with our culture of innovation, Google can make meaningful and positive contributions to the already impressive pace of development in China," said Andrew McLaughlin, Coogle's senior poli­cy counsel. 
Google's decision rankled Reporters Without Borders, a media watchdog group that has sharply eriticized Internet com­panies including Yahoo and Microsoft Corp.'s MSN.com for submitting to China's censorship regime. 
"This is a real shame," said Julien Pain, head of Reporters with Borders' Internet desk. "When a search engine collabo­rates with the government like this, it makes it much easier for the Chinese government to con­trol what is being said on the Internet." 




Killer Arctic blasts incapacitate Europe 
Associated Press 

VIENNA, Austria Vienna's subway tracks cracked, German authorities shut a key canal to ships after it iced up, and a zoo moved its penguins indoors Tuesday as a deadly deep freeze tight­ened its arctic grip on much of Europe. 
The killer cold wave, which has been blamed for more than 50 deaths in Russia, claimed at least 13 lives in the past five days in the former Soviet republic of Moldova, where authorities said anoth­er 30 people -many of them homeless -were hospitalized with hypothermia. 
Romanian authorities reported 15 deaths in the past few days, five of them home­less people, after tempera­tures dropped as low as minus 22 degrees. 
Parts of Austria felt more like Siberia, with the mercury plunging well below zero. Tho bitter cold hit an all-time low of minus 24 degrees in the Lower Austria town of Gross Gerungs, while in thn beer­making town of Zwettl, it was minus 12 -the ehilliest .Jan. 24 since 1929. 
Vienna's subway system operator said morning rush­hour serviee was interrupted in some an~as of the capital because the severe cold ­which hit a low of minus 2 ­caused small tears in the welds on sections of traek. 
Austria's largest automobile club, OEAMTC, said it responded to hundreds of calls from motorists whose cars wouldn't start because of dead batteries -along with dozens more from drivers who could not pry their way into their vehieles because the doors were frozen shut. 
In southern Germany, ofli­cials closed the Hhine-Main­Danube canal to shipping for the first time in five years after it iced over. 
Thick sheets of ice stretch­ing about 50 miles posed a danger to ship propollers and lock systems, said Leonhard Ilummel of the Office of Water and Navigation in Nurembnrg. An icebreaker had to help six ships in the canal -which links waterway systems between the North Sea and the Black Sea -reach their destinations. 
At the zoo in Dresden, Germany, 21 Humboldt pen­guins were moved from their minus 6 outdoor environment into a building where the tem­perature was a more coml"ort­able 32 degrees to ensure their feet didn't freeze, zoo director Karl Ukena said. 
In Moseow, which was held in an icy grip for the past nine days, trolley buses and trams returned to full operation Tuesday, but record-breaking electricity consumption eon­tinued to strain the Soviet-era power system. The Hussian capital "warmed" to minus 7, balmy compared with Thursday's minus 24, but the eity's death toll rose to at least 28. 
Serbia recorded its first eold casualty of the year when an elderly homeless man died in Belgrade. In Kosovo, where tens of thousands lined up outdoors to pay respects to President Ibrahim Rugova, who died Saturday, authori­ties urged mourners to bundle up and provided sornn with hot tea. 
A 4 7 -year-old man froze to death early Tuesday in tho eastern Czech town of Sumperk, and in Prague, workers erected heated tents for the homeless as tempera­tures in some parts of the country plungnd to minus 22. Tents also went up in Bratislava, the capital of neighboring Slovakia. 
At least 35 towns and vil­lages in Bulgaria were with­out electrieity Tuesday after surging power demand led to system breakdowns, the civil defense agency said. Schools in 18 of Bulgaria's 28 regions canceled classes, and an eld­erly man's death was blamed on the cold. 
In Croatia, temperatures fell to minus 1 and winds gusting to 100 mph created a fear­some wind chill factor. 



find out whatls blowing in the wind 


··.., .---····/::... 
-~// I 

If 20 of GE's wind turbines were used to replace the same amount of energy generated in the U.S. through traditional sources. greenhouse gas emissions could be reduced by an amount equal to taking nearly 27,000 cars off the road in the U.S. We call this ecomogination. At GE we invite you to find your answer to ecomagination through a career in engineering, finance. manufacturing, sales and marketing, human resources. or information technology. 
GE will be at the Winter Career & Internship Fair on Feb. 2nd. 
For more info go to www.gecareers.com/notredame 

ecomaginationsM 
to learn more visit us at gecareers.com 
an equal opportunity employer 


A diversified technology, financial services. media 
imagination at work 
company. 


THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 12 Wednesday, January 25, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Youth takeover 
1>.0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garda 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT, MANAGING EoiTOR: SarahVabulas 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
Srom EDITOR: Mike Gilloort ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Ketley GRAPHICS EDITOJU Graham Ebersch AoVlilU'JSING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
Ao DESIGN MANAGEIU Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROLLER: Jim Kidhara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
{574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 News DesK (574) 631-5323 obsnews. HIPnd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4 543 sports.] @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scenc.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSlEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE . 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of rhe University ofNmre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrenr, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverti~ments based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and depanmenr editors. Commemaries, lerrers and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q=tions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th¢ om:crvc:r {USPS "!99-24000} i,: publt,hed Mandil}' thmugh Friday o::cc:pt during -e:Qm wd VOIMUion periods. A$Ub.s:criprion 10 1"ht O!mtvt't iJ: $100 for one: :u:ademic year; S:S5 for tmc semest-er. 
The Observer is published :at~ POSTMASTER 024 Sou~h Din.ing Hall &nd <tddr~ cotrmiom (0: Nou-e Dame. IN 46556.0779 The Observer l'triodkJI po$t:lgt paid oll N(lt~ Dame ?.O.Ilo•779 and addiTimlal m~ling offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nnuc: Dame:, IN 465%·0779 
The Oh~t".'Cr i~ .a memPe-r ofthe fu...uciatcd Press. AJJ reproductiml right.~ ue r~cd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Megan O'Neil Matt Puglisi Karen Langley Kyle Cassily 
Maureen Mullen Jordan Beltz Viewpoint Scene Laura Sonn Brian Doxtader Graphics Matt Hudson 

Birthdays are funny things. Before my 21st, I was a lot more aware of my age and thinking forward to the benefits of that benchmark. Today, as I turn 22, I am thinking, as I have heard others say, what remains spe­cial about getting older beyond 21? I know the future holds other impor­tant milestones with new relation­ships and accom­plishments, but there is something extremely awesome about turning 21. Not only are you entering an adult world, literally, of spaces only for adults, but also everyone knows how special it is and shares your excitement. Yet after turning 18 and then 21, we face a lull of ages, not being particularly special beyond our close contacts. Until you get up there to 50 and every 5 to 10 years after, people are mostly impressed you've lasted this long. 
What to do about the in-between though? There is little acknowledge­ment of the attributes and power of young people. The only example I can think of is women and men who serve in the military. In the commer­cials and ads, young faces stare at us as models of courage and honor that all ages should revere. I have respect for people who make that choice, but there are a multitude of spaces where young people shake things up and act bravely. What about the res­olute young people of faith entering the vocations to minister to future generations? What about young peo­ple today and through the decades that became Conscientious Objectors to war, risking forced labor and 

Kama ria Porter 
Black, Red and Catholic 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
taunting? What about the young peo­ple who are doing the right thing without the watchful eye of adults? What about students who do the thankless work of most of the inter­esting programming on college cam­puses? Are they not of value? Are they not brave? Are they not worth public admiration? 

On the flip side, young people are mostly chas.tised in popular discourse for their mistakes and failures. In many meetings and talks, I hear from adults how lazy, apathetic and care­less young people are, shaking their heads decrying the future of leader­ship. To many, we are good for noth­ings, know-nothings and care-noth­ings. Young people who do defy this stereotype are "credits to their age" rather than celebrated as the fullest expression of a human person of courage and conscience. 
The depictions of youth I like come in poetry. In his poem about "Chicago," Carl Sandburg compares the city to a brave, struggling and laughing youth. Chicago "Under the terrible burden of destiny laughing as a young man laughs ... Bragging and laughing that under his wrist is the pulse and under his ribs the heart of the people." Young people, like growing cities, have the capacity and space to become great and live under pressure constantly. Young people laugh and appear unserious to older folks because they see the long view but know the "heart" of the matter. Young people may not know everything, but they know something that is often the heart of an issue. They live between urgency and hav­ing more time to set things right. Young people see the problem, but still have the courage to ask ques­tions and struggle through difficult answers. 
Another portrayal of youth I enjoy comes form German poet Rainer Maria Rilke who writes that even as young people are beginners in life. they have more of an edge in being at the start. The questions, instead of answers, guide youth. Therefore they are open to more. By living the ques­tions, young people may, "gradually without noticing it, live along some distant day into the answer." Also, young people living the questions have more reverence for complexity that an experienced older person may forget. 

To our detriment, the values of young people are overlooked by oth­ers and ourselves. Perhaps social evil continues because all the people in power are too old. Would we have a different world if led by young peo­ple? If young people had a voice in making decisions that rule their lives and the world they will inherit would we live in different societies, commu­nities, or families? 
Maybe 22 and beyond will be a lull to everyone else, but I hope we can treasure our youth and not wait till society creden­tials us, but take credit and power for ourselves to challenge the old fogies run­ning us into a ditch. By acting now, we may save ourselves some work in the future. Even more for consideration, maybe behind the patronizing and head patting of youth is something more sub­stantial -jealousy. A silent age war to keep the young from using their super­powers and to maintain the control of the old. Maybe, maybe not. Either way, we won't know till we're old. 
Kamaria Porter a senior Chicagoan who shares her birthday with the day ofAl Capone's death in 1947. Coincidence? She encourages you to apply for Viewpoint because she would never dream ofwriting this column as an alumna. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER PoLL 
What should Notre Dame do about the Queer Film Festival and "The Vagina Monologues?" 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
SubmitaLetter 


to theEditor at 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Teachers who educated children deserved more honour than parents who merely gave them birth; {or bare life is furnished by the one, the other ensures a good life. " 
Aristotle ancient philosopher 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, January 25, 2006 
.rage 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Opening dialogue with Father Jenkins 
Investment in women 
In response to The Observer artide high­lighting University President Father John Jenkins' spneeh about academic freedom, I would like to thank Jnnkins for providing spneil'ie rnasons as to why this University is opposed to "Vagina Monologues." This has allownd all of us to sit down with The Obsnrvor in one hand and a pnn in the othnr to l'inally analyze these arguments.. I respnel llw acadomic decorum Jenkins has urgnd in tho current dnbate about tho rolns of' eontrovnrsial produetions at Notre Damn, and out or rnspect for his desire for a rich dnhate. I hopn to provide an opinion which lwlp Jenkins in his "diiTiculty see­ing" tlw full valun of tho monologues. My opinion on this manrwr is tho opinion of a young woman who has survivnd sexual assault and has bonn empowered by the irnagns of snlf-eonfidnnt women portray11d in "Vagina Monologuns." 
I'll admit it-tlw l'irst time I saw this production, it madn rno uncomfortable. For this reason. I didn't really glean from it any true snnse of nmpownrment. But I hung in thorn, hoping to discover why it was that this play had sprPad all over the world and had people pickoting outside in a Notrn Damn February ehi!L On the l>nbartolo l'nrforming Arts Center stage last ynar, with tho bennfits of stage light­ing and million-dollar acoustics, the "Vagina Monologues" were spectacular. That inspired production produced many supporters last year, and I am convinced that this is a contributing factor toward omsorship of the play this year. Helegating the 2006 "Vagina Monologues" to 101 DeBartolo is indeed censorship, as it takes away both the visibility and artistic free­
dom that this play enjoyed in the DPAC. 
I am hurt by Margot O'Brien's careless comment that "We will lose our souls" as a result of productions like the "Vagina Monologues." Victims of sexual assault and abuse often crush their emotions and memories about the incident with devas­tating effects on their own well-being. It can take a lot to shake loose the lid that has been shut on one's souL For me, it took the "Vagina Monologues." One who engages honestly in viewing this produc­tion will find overarching themes of empowerment, strength and pain. The monologues are not about any specific story of sex or violence or homosexuality. The monologues are about finding a way to laugh and cry at the same time about one's own story as a woman, and then drawing s;trength from that story. 
This play is about frendom. It is about discovering individuality, finding one's voice and owning up to the truth about one's past. These themes are all extremely relevant to college students and are all the more relevant to women in the context of the "Vagina Monologues." Notre Dame admitted the first brave women to this University in 1972, and I suggest Jenkins furthers this mission by aiding in our empowerment. Heward our bravery with the freedom to perform productions like the "Vagina Monologues" and invest in the future quality of women's lives at Notre Dame. 
Alison Kelly 
senior 

Walsh Hall Jan. 24 
Call for public forums 
Hegarding University President Father John Jenkins' spneeh and invita­tion for discussion, Notre Dame is not a democracy, nor does it have any obligation to be. But happy compromises, full undnrstanding of all tho issues at hand and clarity of the unique positions ofthosn involvnd would best be brought about through sustained, respnctful dialogue. I believe that sustained dialogue should involve transparnnt, li1rmal, open-minded conversation among rnpresentatives of all these groups: students atlarg1\ the organizers of the controversial events, (acuity, stall', alumni. ND administrators and the church in an open way, as opposml to the one-way "e-mail works well" transmission method proposed by .lnnkins on Tuesday at his spPech to a few hundred nwmbers of the student body. 
If we actually worked together, couldn't we then come up with a morn satisfactory solution to the "Vagina Monologues" situation other than determining whethPr it should be "on" or "oil"' (or alternatively, "a publk performance and fundraiser" or "not"), and diseov1w morn adequate solu­tions to the multitude of other concerns that force us to addrnss dilmnmas of Catholicism and academic frnedom and who or what publidy n~prn­sents Notre Dame as a university? 
I don't believe we are hearing each other, but communicating through speeches. I am doubly concerned because our perceptions of 111111 anotlwr are limited and llawod. I don't think concerned students atlargn have had the opportunity to develop an adequate understanding of the University administrations' process and practical eoncnrns in addrnssing this dilemma. Nor do I believe those lilf and against truly undnrstand each others' positions. Most importantly, I think that a novel solution to these problems would be best brought about through this type of dia­logue. 
I propose developing a public forum or multiple liwums where thesn issues can be discussed, and perhaps resolvnd, and I would bn happy to help facilitate that development. 
Finally, I would like to make clear that while I am involved with the unrecognized group ofindividuals ealled AllianceND (the gay-straight alliance), I am speaking only for myself-part of the Notre Dame family, ND's loyal daughter, but separate, distinct and unrnprnsentative of any agencies' beliefs beyond my own. It can be done. 
Anna Gomberg gradua£c smdcm Off-campus Jan. 24 

U-WIRE 

Online courses instead of class? Tempting, but I'll pass 
It's hard to sit through a bad lec­ture. Your eyes droop, slowly fall shut and then jerk open. You wish you eould be anywhere else but there. The rambling professor eats an hour of your day with that Sara bad lncture, maybe Tenenbaum 
morn. As you leave tlw dassroom, thanking the stars The Justice abovn that you don't Brandeis have to go back until University thn weekend has passnd, you son a solution to your bad-lecture problems tacknd innocently on a bulletin board: Your boring lecture course is being offnrnd ... online! 
Thn numbnr of online courses oiTernd by colleges has risen steadily since 1999, when, according to the Washington Post, a small eompany called Blackboard-run by a handful of 20-somnthings-produced software that would help eollngns put courses onto thn Internet. 
It was a breakthrough; with this tnehnology, universities eould expand tlwir studnnt bodies nxponentially but avoid thn strain that would be placed on thnir pnrsonnel and facilities if these students were to physically attend the eollegn. 
It also wouldn't aiTect admissions pnreentagns and the amount of finan­cial aid given out by the school, meaning the budget eould {theoreti­cally) remain intact. 
That was .January· 'J<J99. Now, seven years later, the Sloan Consortium (a rnsearch group associated with New York University's Sloan Sehool of 
Business) estimates that about three million students take online courses, a number that has been rising rough­ly 25 percent each year, according to an April 2005 article in The Washington Post. And according to an Associated Press article published just this month, the fastest growing group of students taking online eourses is made up of those already enrolled in, living at and physically attending their eollege. 
Brandeis has never offered exten­sive online courses, though the Justice reported in September 2004 that some professors had attempted online summer school courses, with mixed results. Generally speaking, there are two kinds of colleges that offer online elasses: large universities and those that exist exclusively online. 
The latter are not my primary con­cern, because an exclusively online degree often serves adults who are updating skills or continuing their education while also holding a job. 
The multitude of online courses being offered by normal colleges is something that I do find disturbing, however. There is a practical reason for these courses to exist-large state schools often have groups of "distance students" who live too far away to commute to eampus. Online courses are geared toward these students; they can attend their classes when thny need to, and can otherwise do their work via the Internet. And at these large colleges, online courses might actually make students feel as if they are getting more personal attention from their professors. 
But when resident students begin to take online courses because it permits them more time to "do things they like," (in the case of the AP article, the student wanted more time to restore motorcycles), then I think that we're seeing a serious erosion of the meaning and purpose of higher edu­cation. 
1 got the "memorize and regurgi­tate" method of learning out of my system in high schooL College is the time to work on making your thinking more sophisticated, which cannot happen through a class that promotes rote memorization. To grow in the ways intended by higher education requires social interaction: You must learn not just from books and notes, but from people. 
Brandeis offers a pretty good deal: for $32,500 tuition a year, I get small classes that are taught by unbeliev­ably smart professors and populated by very smart students. I have some­times learned more from the students than my professors; they ask ques­tions I want answered but never thought to ask, they push my thinking in directions that would have been unfathomable even days before, and they force me to realize that even though I thought everyone at the table was a snobby, careless person, I was completely wrong. The personal inter­action offered in a class environment is priceless; no online course, no mat­ter how easy or convenient, could ever provide me with such a rich edu­cation-an education that permeates not just my academic mind, but my 
human soul as welL 
This is not to say that online classes should be abolished, or that they don't have a place in higher eduea­tion. I am able to support myself, thanks to my parents, on only a part­time job; those in othnr l'inaneial situ­ations may l'ind online college to bn the perfect solution. 
But if you are going to physieally and financially commit yourself to higher education, espeeially a liberal arts education, then shouldn't you take advantage of thn full seop of thn college exporienen'! 
That means not through a computer screen, but in a dassroom, on or nnar a campus, with pnopln about your age, everyone following the same broad path to their rnspnctive futures. To give that experience up for a few more hours of freo limn is a horrilk waste of time, money and opportunity. In a world inerBasingly dominated by technology, full of peopln who now only communicate through Bluetooth headset or Blackberry e-mail, by ll~xt mossage or IM, college is one of the last times in our lives when constant social interaction is enthusiastically supported. If we're going to shirk that privilege in favor of online conven­ience, then we may as well not go to college at alL 
This column originally appeared in the Jan. 24 issue l~{ The Justice, the daily publication at Brandeis University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not n(!Ces­sarily those of The Observer. 
------~-------------~------------. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENEpage 14 
Wednesday, January 25, 2006 MOVIE REVIEWS 
Queen Latifah's charm drives 'Holiday' 
By CASSIE BELEK 
Scene Critic 
At the time of year when everyone is rushing to see potential Oscar nominees, "Last Holiday" is not to be overlooked. 
It may be filled with a predictable plot and far too many coincidences, but the film offers laughs and warmth that only Queen Latifah can deliver. It is not the most original plot -in fact, it is a remake of the 1950 Alec Guinness film. But the movie doesn't try to break new ground in vacation comedies. It simply tries to give us more of what audiences want -Queen Latifah in a role that fits her like a glove. 
In the beginning of the film, viewers see a shy and lonely Georgia Byrd (Latifah) working in the cookware her dream vacations. 

After she hits her head at work, a trip to the doctor reveals that Georgia has a terminal disease and only has three weeks to live. She regrets that she has wasted her life waiting for something to happen instead of doing the things she has always desired, like opening her own restaurant or meeting Emeril. 
After accepting her fate, she cashes in all her investments, flies to the Czech Republic and checks into the Grand Hotel Pupp in Karlovy Vary, a luxurious spa and ski destination. There, she meets one of her cooking heroes, Chef Didier (Gerard Depardieu), and a series of far-fetched coincidences has her meeting the greedy retail giant who owns the department store for which she worked, his mistress, the senator who cancelled his appearance at her 
department of a church (apparent­
Last Holiday
major department 
ly to go on vaca­store, secretly tion) and a con­harboring a crush gressman who on co-worker serves no purpose Sean Matthews except to utterDirector: Wayne Wang 
(LL Cool J). It is a some of the most
Writers: Jeffrey Price, PeterS. Seaman 
crush so large, humorouS-lines in
Starring: Queen Latifah, LL Cool J,
she even cuts the movie as sev­
Timothy Hutton and Giancarlo Esposito 
their heads out of eral characters pictures, pastes are stranded on a them on the bodies of a bride and groom ledge of the hotel toward the end of the and places them in her "Book of film. Possibilities." Upon her arrival to the resort, Georgia 
Also in her book are pictures of her sheds her former shy self, and Latifah favorite chefs al)d delectable dishes she effortlessly guides her character through has prepared (although she only eats a transformation that includes a stylish Lean Cuisine), along with. brochures of new w,ardrobe, daily spa treatment!!, 

snowboarding lessons gone awry and eating every dish Chef Didier has to offer. Georgia's appetite for life inspires not only the hotel staff, but also the influential people she helps to reform. Back home, Sean has discovered the real reason Georgia skipped town and chases after her to grant her last dying wish ­love. 
LL Cool J portrays the nerdy but sexy Sean brilliantly. In this role, he shows that he can do more than just "be cool" and act in a comedic role that is any­thing but suave. His on-screen chemistry with Latifah makes us wish Georgia's diagnosis was wrong, and perhaps it is. 

Latifah shines as the transformed Miss Byrd. Just as the hotel staff and guests can't take their eyes off of Georgia, we can't take our eyes off of Latifah. Her charisma and energy make us feel like we're on a life-changing vacation with Georgia and having a blast. After show­ing her acting chops in "Chicago," Latifah proves that she can do comedy without stereotypes or overacting. 
"Last Holiday" is a refreshing and fun break from the critically-acclaimed dra­mas of the season and shows Latifah as the warm and hilarious woman she is. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@ad.edu 11 
'Dick and Jane' no fun for movie audiences 
By LAURA MILLER Scene Critic 
"Fun with Dick and Jane," starring Jim Carrey (Dick), is most assuredly fun but just about as creative as its title. 
Directed by Dean Parisot and written by Judd Apatow and Nicholas Stoller, this movie uses the archaic "Dick and Jane" stories for beginning readers as a springboard for the story. Or at least, that's what it was supposed to do, but the only things that are really used are the names Dick and Jane (played by Tea Leoni). The rest, while modestly amusing, is a plot that lacks both moti­vation and a satirical commentary on the children's text. 
This film ends up satisfying no one. For those who crave Carrey's over-the­top comedic style, this film falls short. Gone are the ago­

other contemporary comedies, the film is full of snappy little one-liners that draw the laughs, but unlike more popu­lar films, they aren't witty enough to commit to memory. It's like listening to someone tell a series of really funny knock-knock jokes. 
"Fun with Dick and Jane" was easy to follow, but had one major flaw in its script -this story is for children. It has just enough "inappropriate" content to boost it up to a PG-13 rating, but not enough to entertain adults. As a result, many parents will be ambivalent about taking their children, and most adults will feel that the film is juvenile. It essentially targets one age group-12­to 14-year-olds. 
A good film should speak to a broad audience. The screenwriters should have picked either an adult audience or a children's one and written according­
ly, but instead, 
nizing screams of "Fun with Dick
Fun with Dick and Jane
"Bruce Almighty," and Jane" is in the prancing 
limbo between hilarity of "The the two and­Grinch" and the like the acting quirky role-play­·~'~ -leaves almostDirector: Dean Parisot 
ing of "A Series of every audience 
Writers: Judd Apatow and Nicholas Stoller 
Unfortunate member dissat­
Starring: Jim Carrey, Tea Leoni, Richard 
Events." Those isfied.
Jenkins, Alec Baldwin and Carlos Jacott 
who love Carrey's The cine-
absolute absurdi­ties are disappointed, and those who don't probably wouldn't have gone to see a Carrey movie anyway. 
At one point in time, the acting would have been sufficient for a comedy, but actors Vince Vaughn, Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson have raised the bar for modern mindless comedy. No longer does mediocre acting satisfy audiences. Comedy has gone beyond the script -it now includes expression and the indi­vidual personality of the actors. Like 

matography of this movie is ordinary, ordinary, ordi­nary. Comedy doesn't really lend to too many creative brainstorms on this front, but the blandness of Dick and Jane's house, car, child, television, car­pet and costuming does nothing to even try to campensate for the lack of good humor. 
The movie intended to present the picture of perfect suburbia seen in the books -each house looking identical, yards neatly trimmed and each family 

Photo courtesy of movieweb.com Dick (Jim Carrey), left, and Jane (Tea Leoni), right, turn to crime to escape their financial difficulties in Dean Parisot's latest comedy, "Fun with Dick and Jane." 
with a husband, wife, child and dog, The creators should have looked to Carrey's "The Truman Show" for tips on constructing a comic suburban setting. If highlighted, the ridiculous uniformity could have been a hoot, but the cine­matography fails to focus on the satiri­cal commentary of suburbia. This destroys the mood of the script and diminishes the irony of Dick and Jane's struggles against their (supposedly) stereotypical surroundings. 
The verdict on "Fun with Dick and 

Jane"? Forgettable. Certainly not worth the obscenely-high ticket prices. It's bad enough that people will be walking out of the theaters, but in two weeks, no one will remember the plot or anything about it. It's not painfully bad, but it's not good either. 
"Fun with Dick and Jane" leaves viewers wishing that they had stayed home to watch "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" for the umpteenth time. 
Contact Laura Miller at lmiller8@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Wednesday, January 25, 2006 
page 15 
MOVIE REVIEWS 
'Memoirs' a movie worth remembering 
By MICHELLE FORDICE 
Scene Critic 
Based on the internationally best­selling novel by Arthur Golden, "Mnmoirs of a Geisha" pays full tribute to tho book's fame and is even inde­pnndently a wonderful pince. 
Though tho movin, like the book, may occasionally stray historically, the boauty of tim film, its score and acting makes up for many of' its inconsisten­dns. 
"Memoirs of a Geisha" tells the story of Chiyo (Suzuka Ohgo), later known as Sayuri (Ziyi 
-arrives, and that world begins to col­lapse around her. "Memoirs of a Geisha" is a story of finding one's self in a world that does its best to hide and crush it. 

Director Rob Marshall takes the same impacting visuals he used in "Chicago" and applies them to the softer and veiled world of the Geishas. In doing so, he creates stunning scenes that are just lined with darkness, ref1ecting the lif'e of a Geisha, beautiful on the out­side and more challenging within. 
Despite all of the commotion before the release of the film due to the use of primarily Chinese instead of Japanese 
actors, the acting in 

Zhang) a "Memoirs of a
Memoirs of a Geisha
nino year old Geisha" is done very girl taknn from 
well. lwr fishing vil­Ohgo builds a lage, separated strong foundation from lwr sister for the protagonist'Director: Rob Marshall 
and sold to a that Zhang takes
Writer: Robin Swicord 

Goisha house and molds, walking
Starring: Zhang Ziyi, Ken Watanabe, 
in Kyoto. She is the fine line between
Michelle Yeoh and Koji Yakusho
sot to work as Sayuri's passivity 
a servant, suf­fnring the vindictiveness of llatsumomo 
(I.i (iong), the most prominent Geisha of the houso. With no hope of seeing her sister again, Chiyo despairs until slw mnets the Chairman (Ken Watanabe), whose kindness inspires hnr and kindles her love. 
Eventually Chiyo is taken under the wing of llatsumomo's rival, Mameha (Midwlle Yeoh) and bocomes one of the most ronowned Geisha, changing her IHI!m6 ~ SayU>ri. Hut soon World ·War II and assertiveness. 
"Memoirs of a Geisha" has a well­known cast, including such names as Ken Watanabe and Michelle Yeoh, but these actors do well to remain true to their characters, so the film does not turn into a simple name-dropping exer-· eise. 
With the talents of composer John Williams, cellist Yo-Yo Ma and violinist lthzak Perlman all working in concert, the score of "Memoirs of a Geisha" is astounding. Subdued and beautiful, it complements the rest of the film and dances around two of the main charac­ters -Sayuri and the Chairman ­without ever becoming overpowering, thus remaining simply gorgeous. 
The story of "Memoirs of a Geisha" may not be the best historical repre­sentation. There are some inaccuracies -some things are a bit too modern and never would have happened in the early-to mid -1900s, and World War II seems significantly underplayed. Most importantly, the realities of the time were probably not as beautiful as the film depicts them. Still, if taken with a little wariness, it remains a great story, if not the best history lesson. 
The lost world of the (ieisha is per­haps not one that should be mourned so beautifully; it was a lifn wlwre silk wrapped darker secretes of intrigue, virginity was sold to the highest bidder, and girls faeed constant struggle to assert any of their own will over thnir lives. 
Still, "Memoirs of a Geisha" is a won­derful tale that for onee gives a happy ending to a Geisha's struggles and does so in a wonderfully artistic way. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 
Theater adaptation fails to produce results 
By GRACE MYERS 
Scene Critic 
"Tiw Producers" is a movie based on the Broadway musical which, in-turn, was basnd on a movie about a play. But don't worry, no musical is too eomplicatnd and "The Producnrs" is not an exception. 
Despite its 37 -year life, most people rec­ognize "The Producers" from the famous, impossible-to-get-tickets-to, award-win­ning Broadway musieal in which Nathan Lane and Mathew Broderick starred five y11ars ago. In the film, director Susan Stroman rncrnatns the theatrical perform­ancn for thousands of holiday season movie-gonrs. 
Tho movio begins when the unlucky producer Max Bialystock (Lane) meets with his mousey accountant Leo Bloom (Brodnriek). Fending on· Bloom's dream to 
bn a Broadway pro­
much of its ducer. Bialystock energy without convinces him to any live audi­bneome his partner ence interaction in a surefire flop and and because of then pocket all of Director: Susan Stroman its considerable the investors' Writers: Thomas Meehan and Mel Brooks length. Movie­monny. They dig Starring: Matthew Broderick, Nathan goers are fortu­through piles of Lane, Uma Thurman and Will Ferrell nate to see the sonal showbiz motto: "Keep it light, keep it happy, keep it gay!" All the while, Bialystock woos elderly widows for money and Bloom dreams of his new life as a wealthy Broadway producer. 
Despite all their scheming to the con­trary, "Springtime for Hitler" is an instant success, as audiences see it as ·an ironic spoof on Nazism and Hitler. This, and the proceeding action, proves hilarious, prob­ably even more so for today's audiences, who might expect irony, rather than audi­ences of 37 years ago when the first movie debuted. 
Stroman, a successful Broadway and ofl'-Broadway director, did not have any previous experience with film. She fulfills the task of portraying the energy of the stage show -for example, Lane's fast­paced, frenzied musical number "Betrayed" is absolutely brilliant. However, the movie loses 
scripts to find the worst one, settling on "Springtime for Hitler," a musical praising the Fuhrer and "certain to offend pnoples of all races, creeds and religions." 
They then must work to produce the play, meeting Franz Liebkind (Will FMrell), the pigeon-loving Nazi play­wright, and the cartoonishly beautiful Swedish actress/receptionist Ulla (Uma Thurman). They hire the worst possible director, Hobert DeBris (original cast member Gary Beach), who believes that no one goes to the theater for a serious produetion and therefore lives by his per-
unique comedic relationship between Lane and Broderick. 
It's obvious they did hundreds of per­formances and are in-tune with each other; some of their scenes actually seemed as if they were completed in just one take. Uma Thurman and Will Ferrell, the two notable additions whom theatrical purists scoffed, had remarkable perform­ances, displaying great ease behind the camera that other actors sometimes lacked. 
"The Producers" feels more like watch­ing a play than a movie, as if someone just set a eamera up on stage and let the actors do what they have done hundreds of times. This, much to critics' dismay and disapproval, was its most original and endearing quality. Other musicals-turned­movies, such as "Chicago" and "Rent," digressed considerably from their original theatrical performances, using all the cin­ematic tricks the director could think up. 

"The Producers" however, remains true to its theatrical form, indeed the form that brought it so much success. Actors use large, exaggerated motions while wearing colorful eostumes, and the dance choreog­raphy is exactly what one would expect to see during the play. The sets, despite a few outdoor locations, seem as if they were taken straight from tho playhouse in New York City. 
The movie impresses with the close relationships between tho actors and the comedic brilliance of the script. It is indeed entertaining, but does not live up to its potential, leaving many movie-goers unsatisfied, desiring to just go see the play. 
Contact Grace Myers at gmyersl @nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 16 
Wednesday, January 25, 2005 
DVD REVIEWS 

Unrated 'Virgin' worth the extra wait 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN Assistant Scene Editor 
"The 40-Year-Old Virgin" could have easily been nothing but a sophomoric sex film, but with the help of good writ­ing, a great cast and actual emotion in the film, it emerged as something dif­ferent. It had too much of a heart to just be a gross-out comedy, and it had too many raunchy jokes to just be a film you'd take a date to.

' 
Even without a real niche, the film became a huge hit over the summer and the unrated version of the DVD is a fitting package for the unique kind of movie that "The 40-Year-Old Virgin" 

' proved to be. The extras highlight the best parts of the film and are actually worth watching, which isn't true of every film out these days. Steve Carrell, previously known for playing news anchors on "The Dally Show," "Bruce Almighty" and "Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy," plays Andy Stitzer, an action-figure obsessed guy who also happens to be a virgin. When his co­workers find out that he hasn't been with a woman, they do all·that they can to help him. He ultimately starts a rela­tionship with the "hot grandma," Trish (Catherine Keener) and learns a lot about sex and What makes relation­ships work. 

The film features a great cast, with especially funny work from Paul Rudd and Seth Rogan as two of Andy's friends. Catherine Keener makes Andy's love interest Trish a multi-dimensional character, which is impressive since she could have easily been the stereotypical movie girlfriend. Steve Carrell, usually over-the-top in his comedy roles, does a surprisingly good job playing the shy, quiet straight man. 
The film isn't heavy on plot and shamelessly uses some of the jokes that one would expect in a film about a 40­year-old virgin, but it also has some truly original moments. For every expected bad date and awkward sex scene, it also has some surprisingly real things to say about love and dating. 
One of the best -and most painful ­features on the DVD is the "Waxing Doc," which chronicles the how infa­mous scene in which star Steve Carrell actually had his chest waxed into a "man-o-lantern" for the movie. 
Other extras included extended takes of such scenes such as "You Know How I Know You're Gay," "Andy's Fantasies" and "Cal and Paula," all of which include commentary and a few other extended scenes without com­ments. 
The scenes, especially the clearly ad-libbed "You Know How I Know You're Gay" scene, are actually worthy of making it into the actual film. The bloopers, as with most films, are predictable but worth watch­ing once. 


The "Line-0-Rama" feature is one of the more unique additions to the DVD. It shows alternate jokes that didn't make it into scenes that are in the film. "My Dinner with Stormy," another extra, features Seth Rogan, who plays Cal, on a date with porn star Stormy Daniels, who is featured in the film. There is also commentary on the entire movie from Carrell and writer/director Judd Apatow. 
Overall, "The 40-Year-Old Virgin" is a hilarious movie with a surprising dash of heart added to the mix. It doesn't have an extremely complicated plot or premise, but with a great cast, some fantastic jokes and some actual com­mentary on relationships, it does a great job with what it has. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
Uncorked 'Crashers' breaks every rule 
By SEAN SWEANY Scene Critic 
Rule #46: The rules of wedding crashing are sacred. Don't sully them by "improvis­ing." Now these sacred rules are available for all to own, in the form of "Wedding Crashers: Uncorked" on DVD. Never again will any Crasher have to utter Rule #76: No excuses. Play like a champion. 
This film, which stars Vmce Vaughn and Owen Wilson, has written the book on wedding crashing and is a must-have for anyone looking for a good laugh or even those seriously interested in the sport. 
Lifelong friends John (Owen Wilson, "The Royal Tenenbaums") and Jeremy (Vince Vaughn, "Old School") are two divorce mediators who indulge in the springtime hobby of crashing weddings to pick up women. No matter the ethnicity of the wedding, these two charismatic crash­ers are always prepared, thanks to their set of rules, and quickly become hits at any wedding. They rationalize that their immaturity is just "people helping people" have a fun time at the nuptials. 
Before hanging up their suits, the two decide to crash the biggest wedding of the year, the marriage of the daughter of the Treasury Secretary Cleary (Christopher Walken, "Catch Me If You Can"). At the wedding, John falls for the second daugh­ter of the Secretary, Claire (Rachel McAdams, "The Notebook"), while Jeremy falls for his third, lustful daughter Gloria ("I Heart Huckabees"). The two go to the Clearys' island home of the in order to pur.sue their romances, but once there, the deception and deceit become too· much when mean boyfriends, impas­sioned mothers and total disaster threaten the two crashers. 


This movie works so well because of the relationship between fast-talking Vaughn and drawling Wilson. They have acted in many films of the current comedy troupe of Will Ferrell, Ben Stiller and Jack Black, but this is their first starring effort. Their banter is at times vulgar and raunchy, but this is a refreshing change from the trend of sedate, conservative comedies. 
Director David Dobkin ("Shanghai Knights") does a respectable job of guid­ing the film, mostly by letting Vaughn and Wilson work their magic. The interactions between Vaughn and Wilson are very well acted and provide many quotable lines. The attrac­tive Rachel McAdams con­tinues to prove that she is one of the finest up-and­coming young actresses in Hollywood by holding her own alongside the two vet­eran comedians. Fine sup­porting roles are played by Walken, Jane Seymour as his wife, Fisher and a sur­prise cameo by a member 


of Vaughn and Wilson's comic troupe. 
The "Uncorked" DVD edition allows viewers to watch the unrated cut of the film, featuring eight extra minutes of footage deemed unsuitable for theaters. Like most comedies, these unrated scenes do not add much to the film but are still worth it since the rated and unrated ver­sions are offered at the same price. The two featurettes included on the DVD are a behind-the-scenes look at the making of the film and a scene of Vmce Vaughn and Owen Wilson discussing the rules of wed­ding crashing. These same rules are also printed on several pages for anyone seri­ous in their study of wedding crashing. 
Overall, this is a very worthwhile DVD to own. The filmmakers were aiming to pro­duce an R-rated comedy where the actors could let loose and have fun, and that energy in "Wedding Crashers" jumps off the screen and provides many laughs· wrapped in a feel-good love story. A'i wed­ding season comes near, crashers and non-crashers alike can find laughs and delight in "Wedding Crashers." 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
-. 

The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT page 17 
Don't forget about MOVIES in the BROWNING CINEMA 
Caii631-FILM for a recorded list of this week's showings! CHECK OUT THE ARAB FILM SERIES IN THE BROWNING CINEMA, JAN. 29 THROUGH FEB. 3. 
SIMON SHAHBBN 
AND QANTARA 
ARAB MASTER MUSICIANS 

-
Sat. Feb. 4 at 8 pm Leighton Concert Hall Student Tickets: $15 
"[Simon Shaheen] is increasingly regarded as one of the most dynamic musical links between the Arab world and the West:' 
-ARAMCO World Magazine 

page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, January 25, 2006 
NBA 


Cavaliers dominate Pacers in 96-66 trouncing 
Chris Webber had 1 7 points and
Jermaine O'Neal 
13 rebounds, leading Philadelphia to a victory over
thought to have torn 
undermanned Sacramento on groin muscle in game Tuesday night. 
The Kings were without Associated Press Stojakovic because he stayed 
CLEVELAND -The Indiana back at the hotel after the team Pacers may have bigger prob­reportedly agreed to send him lems than just finding a new to Indiana for Artest earlier in team for Hon Artest. the day. However, the trade fell 
With a proposed trade send­through, though Artest left open ing Artest to Sacramento appar­the possibility that something ently on hold. the Pacers scored could still happen. The volatile just 28 points in the second forward was deactivated by the half, lost Jermaine O'Neal to Pacers in December after another injury and were requesting a trade. drubbed by the Cleveland "I had no control over any of Cavaliers on Tuesday night. it," Kings coach Rick Adelman 
"We sure have had enough said. "I didn't have Peja. I told bad luck for a year." said them to play with the hand O'Neal, who may have torn a you're dealt." groin muscle in the fourth quar­Mike Bibby had a career-high ter. ''I'm really, really con­44 points and Kevin Martin cerned. I heard it pop. added 20 as the Kings lost their Hopefully, I won't need sur­third straight game. gery." Sacramento has won at least 55 

O'Neal. who said he· has felt gamOes in four straight sea­tightness in the groin for weeks, sons. but is last in the Pacific also hurt his right shoulder and Division. was playing on a tender left "As far as distractions go, not ankle. He limped to the locker having Peja was the biggest room with 9:30 remaining, but thing," Bibby said. "We still by then the Cavaliers were don't know what's going on." ahead by 20. The Kings visit the New York AP 
LeBron James met with Oscar Knicks on Wednesday, but Robertson before the game and Adelman wasn't sure about then flirted with a triple-double Stojakovic's status. in front of the man who patent­"I have a lot of faith in Peja," out there for me to be more Saunders and his staff were so February after taking ed them. Adelman said. "He's meant a lot active on defense, to be more excited, Rasheed Wallace joked, Minnesota to the playoffs eight 
Wearing white tights under to me and this franchise. He's aware," said Wade, who added that they could've donned times in his 9 1/2 seasons, and his shorts, a look likely to be been a pro his whole career." four rebounds, four assists, Detroit's red road uniforms and this was his first time back at copied by kids everywhere, The Sixers have won three in three blocks and two steals. "I played themselves. Target Center. James scored 23 points with a row, improving to 21-20 at the know I'm a good defender. At Just another game? The eight assists and seven halfway point of the season. times, I just take a rest. So he Pistons acknowledged it wasn't. Magic 111, Suns 102 rebounds for the Cavaliers, just Philadelphia, which came in put a challenge on me not to Chauncey Billups beat his old ORLANDO, Fla-All of a sud­back from a. 1-5 trip to the West allowing the third-most points take a. rest." team by five points in the third den, the Orlando Magic are Coast. in the NBA, reverted back to its It wasn't just Wade respond­quarter, sparking the streaking unbeatable at home. 
''I'm 2-0 with them," James usual form on defense after ing to Pat Hiley's call for better Pistons past the Timberwolves Orlando limited Phoenix, the said of the leggings. 'Tm wear­consecutive solid efforts. defense. The Heat outrebound­on Tuesday night -and giving NBA's highest-scoring team, to ing them to keep warm so when The Sixers held Memphis and ed Memphis 47-30, plus held Saunders a satisfying return to just two points in the final 4:48 I go to the bench it [his sore left Minnesota to under 90 points the Grizzlies to 52 points and 34 Minnesota. of the game, allowing the Magic knee] doesn't stiffen up." each. but allowed the Kings to percent shooting over the final "It was nice," said Saunders, to pull away to a victory. 
Before the game, Pacers shoot 47.6 percent. three periods. cheered loudly before tipoff. It was the seventh straight coach Hiek Carlisle and CEO Shaquille O'Neal had 20 "Coaches do like those kind of home victory for Orlando, which Donnie Walsh said that no trade Heat 94, Grizzlies 82 points and 15 rebounds in only games." started the season just 5-9 on involving the volatile Artest was MIAMI -Bobby Jackson kept 30 minutes for Miami, which Billups finished with 27 its own court. Hedo Turkoglu imminent. looking over his left shoulder as won its 51st consecutive home points, eight assists and seven led the Magic with 30 points _ 
"There is no trade right now he strode toward the basket for game when leading after three rebounds after outscoring the including 10 in the final 6:12 
and there may not be a trade," what could have been an easy quarters. Williams added 14 Timberwolves 18-13 by himself when Orlando broke a 95-all Carlisle said. "There's nothing lay-up. points and six assists for the in the third. tie. to talk about because there is lie never saw Dwyane Wade Heat, who have won two Antonio McDyess had 16 Dwight Howard added 22 no trade." coming from the right. straight. points. and Tayshaun Prince points and 12 rebounds while 
The Pacers could have used Wade swooped over Jackson "If we do what we're sup­and Rasheed Wallace each had Steve Francis had 15 points. six Artest. a defensive stopper who to block the shot late in the posed to do, we can play with 15 points for Detroit (34-5), assists and six rebounds as held James to 19 points on 6-of-third quarter. part of his big any team," said O'Neal, repeat­which won its eighth straight Orlando notched its fourth 20 shooting earlier this season. second-half effort that helped ing a familiar refrain. "We just game and showed the bravado straight win overall. tying a sea­
But they couldn't do much to carry the Miami Heat to a win have to play good defense, con­of a team with the league's best son high. 
slow Cleveland's All-Star in the over the Memphis Grizzlies on tain their shooters, not let them record. Keyon Dooling, playing for the third when he scored 12 points Tuesday night. have three or four guys in dou­"That's one of the best teams first time after a five-game sus­-one less than the Pacers -Wade scored 18 of his 25 ble figures. If we do that. we'll I've seen assembled, from top to pension for fighting, had 10 and the Cavs outscored Indiana points in the second half, plus be fine." bottom," said Minnesota coach points in a reserve role. 
27-13. helped frustrate former Heat Jackson had a season-high 22 Dwane Casey. "You saw the "Home wins are huge, no guard Eddie Jones into an 0-points for Memphis. which also potential NBA champions in the doubt about it," Magic coach Sixers 109, Kings 103 for-7 performance in his first got 12 from Shane Battier and second half." Brian Hill said. "We got excel­PHILADELPHIA The game back in Miami since he Mike Miller. Pau Gasol added 11 Kevin Garnett had 21 points lent contributions from every­Sacramento Kings could've was traded in the five-team, 13-for the Grizzlies, who lost both and 10 rebounds. for the body at some point in the game used either Ron Artest or Peja player megadeal last summer games with Miami this season. Timberwolves (19-20), who did­and I was obviously pleased Stojakovic against Allen Iverson that brought Jason Williams n't make a very good impres­with our defense at the end. and the Philadelphia 76ers. and James Posey to the Heat. Pistons 107, Timberwolves 83 sion on their former coach. Phoenix is a tough team to 
Iverson scored 41 points and "Coach did put a challenge MINNEAPOLIS -Coach Flip Saunders was fired last defend." 

CLASSIFIEDS 
ND family in Granger looking for part-time babysitter. 
WANTED Flexible daytime schedule. If interested, please call Renee at 277-3496. 
Part-time sitter needed in profes· sors home for 4·yr·old boy. 574­271-1353. 

FoR RENT 
Canton House restaurant 
now accepting applications WALK TO SCHOOL 
for full/part time 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES
wait staff. MMMRENTALS.COM
15 mins. to ND. Call574·232·8182 532·1408
or fax resume to 232·2044 908 SB Ave: Roomy 6-7 bdrm home 4 blocks to ND. 2 baths, wid, broadband internet incl. Avail. 06·07 & 07-08 school year. 327 Hill St: NEED A HOME TODAY? NEED A SECOND CHANCE? Very nice 3 bdrm home. Close to ND & Corbys. Broadband internet option. W/D & alarm system avail. Move in today. Call Joe Crimmins 574·229·3659 or 
. . 
email JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining HalL Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuin~ refunds. 
New 3-4 Bedroom Homes, 3 full Blue & Gold Homes is offering a 2-6 BDRMS. WALK2ND. FURN. Baths, 2+ Car Garage, Fireplace, free pool table to all new tenants. 1· 329-0308 Cathedral Ceilings, 7 bdrms, 24-hr maintenance & open 10x20 Deck, leases. Visit BlueGoldrentals.com or Close to Campus. call574·250-7653. PERSONAL 
$1700 monthly. Available Aug. 06/07, 515 St. Joseph, 8 bdrms, $200/per-Days from $299! Includes Meals, Call574-232-4527, son, B&G Homes. 574-250-7653. MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, 
269-683-5038. Acapulco, Jamaica from $499! 
1706 Logan, 6 bdrms, $200/person, Campus Reps Needed! 1 bedroom apartment for rent 1 mile B&G Homes. 574·250-7653. PromoCode:31 www.springbreak­to campus. travel.com 1-800-678-6386. 
$575/mo. Laundry. 123 ND Ave. 3-bdrm, Stop overpaying for rent Visit Call 283-0325 1.5 bath. SPRING BREAK!FREE INFO BlueGoldrentals.com Call574-229-0149. NOW!at www.seeyathere.com 
Wednesday, January 25, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NHL 


Axelsson, Bruins inch closer to playoffs with win 
the results," coach Mikn guys who scored some goals ­
Third-period goal 
Sullivan said. "This group is especially the last one." 

gzves Boston 3-2 starting to doline itself'." .Jason Chimera, who scored Tlw Thrashers are mir11d in a the first Columbus goal, carriedvictory over Atlanta three-game losing strPak -the puek down the left wing and thnir worst slump since a livo­left a drop pass for Lctowski. Associated Press gamn skid that ended in early Letowski put a fake on Todd l>ecmnber. Atlanta followed that Bertuzzi that froze him before ATLANTA -The Boston with a lJ-2-:~ run, surging into charging in on goaltender Bruins had plenty ol' chances to contention for the lirst playoff Alexander Auld, skating to the scorn on tlw power play. berth in franchise history: slot and beating Auld between 
They waited until tho Atlanta Now, they need another turn­his leg pads. Thrashers evened things up. around."Whnn you look at the "I just kind of stepped around 
I'.. I. Axelsson seorml with 7:02 standings, it's all jumbled up," him IBortuzzi I and went five­remaining and tho Bruins ndgnd Atlanta coaeh Bob llartley said. hole," said Letowski, who only elosor to playoff' contention, "Thnre's still plnnty of games. has six goals but has scored in heating the Thraslwrs Tuesday But you don't want to give up the last two games. "It felt good, night. games that could eome back to just the timing of the goal and it 
Boston SJH'nt much of' tiHl haunt you at the end of the being a game-winner." 

third 1wriod with an extra year." Bertuzzi, Nolan Baumgartner skater -and oven a couple of' Hartley was very upset with and Daniel Sedin each had a two-man advantages. But the the officials, who called five goal and an assist for the teams were at oven strength straight pnnalties on the home Canucks, who are 1X-3-3 at wlwn Axelsson scornd his lirst team in tho first 10:04 of thn home but only 10-14-2 on the ganw-winning goal of' the year. third period. Thn Thrashers road. Sami Salo and Alexandre 
Af'ter tho Bruins eontrollod a spnnt more than eight minutes Burrows also had goals. Markus f'aCIHIIT, Brad lsbistor playod killing them oil'-induding two Naslund added two assists. knepaway in tho 1:orner, tlwn stretches totaling 1:43 in which Vancouver coaeh Marc passod oiT to Wayne Primeau they wnro two skatnrs down. Crawford said it wore on his lwhind tlw not. l'rinwau spotted Loam to have to constantly play AxPisson alone in f'ront, and the Blue Jackets 6, Canucks 5 from behind. 
wingPr knockml his ninth goal COLUMBUS -Thn Columbus past Thrashors goalio Knri Blue Jackets, with the fewest Panthers 3, Lightning 2 
l.P h lmw n. goals in tho Nlll., linally won a TAMPA, Fla. -Florida goal­
"II. was a hardworking goal," game bncause of their ofi'ensn. tender Huberto Luongo had Axnlsson said. "I didn't son any Trevor Lntowski scored with another great game against of' it. I just shot it. I was too 4:37 loft to help the Blue Tampa Bay. Olli Jokinen made dose to tlw rwt. Thorn was a lot .Jackets to a win over the sure it came in a victory. of luck in it." Vancouver Canueks on Tuesday Jokinen scored twice, includ­
Boston is playing its best night in the highest-scoring ing the game-winner with l :45 hork1~y of' the season, winning game playnd in the franchise's left in overtime, and Luongo l'or Lhn fourth Limn in six games live years. made 48 saves to help the and losing tho other two in In a wild game that had little Panthers beat the Lightning on shootouts. The Bruins dosed to defense and end-to-end action, Tuesday night. within four points or the the Blue Jackets blew leads of Luongo was within 4 minutes Thrashers, who hold down the 2-0, 3-2, 4-3 and 5-4 before of his first shutout since he eighth spot -the linctl playoff Letowski's goal. opened the season with consec­position ~ in the Eastern "As far as offense, it worked utive blankings of Atlanta and Conl'nrence. out for us really, really well," the Lightning. But Brad 
"Wn'vo been playing consis­said Columbus forward Sergei Richards' goal, which appeared tnntly good for three or four Fedorov. "It was good to see to hit off Florida's Chris wonks, but not always getting some individual effort from the Gratton, at 16:09 made it 2-1 
JPW Mass Lector Au3itions 

JPW Lector auditions will take place in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on each of the following dates: 
Monday, January 30th at 4:00pm Tuesday, January 31st at 4:00pm 
Please attend one of the two auditions. For further information, please contact I-Iarv Humphrey at 631-8520 or by email at humphrey.17@nd.edu 

C-M 
Campus Ministry 



and Luongo then allowed Hyan Craig's equalizer from the low slot with 48 seconds remaining. 
"Tonight was an illustration of how good he can be," Panthers coach Jacques Martin said. 
It was just the second time Tampa Bay had 50 shots in a game. Luongo made 50 saves in the Panthers' 2-1 win over tho Lightning on Jan. 17, 2004. 
"Give Luongo credit," Tampa Bay coaeh John Tortorella said. "He seems to have those games against us quite a bit." 
Jokinen snapped Florida's three-game losing streak with his rebound goal from the left circle. 
The Lightning had tho first nim~ shots in the game, includ­ing five on a power play. Luongo kept it scoreless with strong saves on shots by Darryl Sydor and Vincent Leeavalier. 

Tampa Bay outshot the Panthers 18-8 in the lirst. 
"Without him, we don't get any points tonight," JokiniHl said. "Without him we don't have a chance tonighi. Jle is a difference maker. lie set the tone." 
The Panthers went ahead 1-0 on Gratton's goal f'rom the low right drde at 11:13 of the see­on d. Luongo stopped 17 shots in the period, ineluding two big saVfJS on Hichards. 
'"1\vo points is what we want right now, but we're not going to boat ourselves up," Hichards said. "You walk away not down on yoursdf. You can win a lot of games if you play like that." 
The Lightning continued tlwir offensive dominance into the third, but Luongo stopped point-blank chances by Dan Boyle and Martin St. Louis. 


WANTED 

Resident Advisors 
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE PREPARATION PROGRAM 
QUALIFICATIONS:
The Northwestern University College 
• completion of sophomore year of college by June, 2006 
Preparation Program is looking for 
resident advisors to help guide high 

• a consistent record of academic school students through ·a summer 
achievement 
• previous experience as an RA, tutor, or camp counselor 
of learning and fun at Northwestern. 
Earn salary, including room and 

• excellent communication, board; work with bright, motivated 
leadership, motivation, and problem-solving skills 
high school students from around 
• a wide range of extracurricular
the country and abroad; plan excit­
interests and activities 
ing events and gain valuable experi· 
• enthusiasm and a genuine interest in working with high
ence while enjoying Northwestern 
school students 
campus life and exploring Chicago 

• a strong sense of responsibility this summer! 
and a high level of maturity 
Apply by February 17, 2006! 

For information and to request an applica­tion, contact Stephanie Teterycz at 847-NORTHWESTERN 467-6703 or s-teterycz@northwestern.edu. UNIVERSITY 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, January 25, 2006 
NHL 
Brodeur, Devils blank Islanders in 4-0 rout 
On Campus Junior Parent Weekend Special February 16-20, 2006 
Come early, stay late, same price! Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend donation is $100.00 per parent, Whether you stay Two, three, or four nights. Rooms are availab~ Thursday through Sunday. For reservations call 574-631-7512 or 574-631-9436 
Sullivan capitalized on their chances. 
Kariya's breakaway goal 35 seconds into overtime gave the Nashville Predators a win over Detroit on Tuesday night. 
It was the second consecutive win in two days by Nashville over Detroit at Joe Louis Arena. Monday night's game -a 3-2 Nashville win -was a makeup for the Nov. 21, contest, in which Detroit's Jiri Fischer col­lapsed on the bench in the first period because of cardiac arrest. 
Steve Sullivan scored the other goal, also on a break­away, for Nashville (31-12-6) and Tomas Vokoun made 38 saves for the second straight night. 
"Such a good couple nights for us. We did it again, we give them chances on the power play," said Vokoun. "They had like three posts it could have been different. It was our night. We had a great goal in overtime and we got four points on the road against the Red Wings. I mean, if you look at the history, that's never been the case." 

Each team had seven power­play opportunities. They have always pointed to He's a great asset for us." 
Mathieu Schneider got Brian Holston, who signed after Holston put the Wild up 2-1 in Detroit's only goal during a two­the 2003-04 season, as the for­the second period, then scored man advantage and Manny gotten man, and he has come the game-winner, his 22nd of Legace stopped 26 shots. through so far this season. the season, with Minnesota 
"It's frustrating. We weren't Holston scored two goals to short-handed 6:30 into the third able to execute around the net," lift the Minnesota Wild to a vic­period. Detroit coach Mike Babcock tory over the Phoenix Coyotes As Nick Schultz tried to scoop said. on Tuesday night, giving the the puck out of the Wild zone it 
Wild their first four-game win­was deflected high in the air. Wild 3, Coyotes 2 ning streak in a single season in Holston snatched it on the run 
ST. PAUL, Minn. -The franchise history. and broke free. He ripped a Minnesota Wild have been criti­"His confidence is at a great slapshot past Phoenix goal­cized locally for not spending level," coach Jacques Lemaire tender Brian Boucher for his money on a big-name free said. "He's got a great shot and second straight two-goal game. agent or two following the lock­he knows the goalie on the "He's been huge for us," out. other side and where to put it. Schultz said. 

Wednesday, January 25th 




THEOLOGY 
Presents 
Get tapped in at Legends Doors Open at 9:30pm, Speaker starts ... 1O:OOpm Free soft-drinks and food 
CM 
Campus Ministry 

Brodeur recovers from injury to make 
24 saves in shutout 
Associated Press 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. -Martin Brodeur overcame a first-peri­od injury scare to help the New Jersey Devils rebound from a streak-ending loss. 
The Canadian Olympic goalie made 24 saves for his fourth shutout of the season and Brian Gionta scored his 29th goal in New Jersey's victory over the New York Islanders on Tuesday night, the Devils' lOth victory in 11 games. 
Brodeur twisted his left knee midway through the first period when he got tangled up with Islanders forward Oleg Kvasha after making a sprawling save on Arron Asham. 
"Kvasha's skate caught my skate and it twisted my knee," said Brodeur, who missed six games earlier this season because of a sprained right knee. "It's not bad. I felt it a lit­tle bit in the third period, but I'm not worried about it." 
The Devils also beat the Islanders 3-2 in a shootout Saturday for their ninth straight victory, but the season-high winning streak ended the fol­lowing night with a 3-1 loss to the New York Rangers at Madison Square Garden. 
"It's a big win, regardless of the shutout," Brodeur said. "We needed to get back on track. We had a great power play and penalty kill, two things that cost us at the Garden. We're paying attention defensively." 
Brodeur. seventh on the NHL's career shutout list with 79, improved to 24-15-3 and low­ered his goals-against average to 2.59. He has all four of his shutouts this season in the last 11 games. 
"He's the backbone of this team. No question," defense­man Colin White said. "Our whole team has been playing well and he's back there to make the big saves. I think he's the best goalie in the league by far." 
Jamie Langenbrunner and Scott Gomez each had a goal and an assist, Viktor Kozlov also scored and Patrik Elias added two assists. 
Sabres 2, Rangers 1 
NEW YORK -In the midst of their longest road-trip of the season, the Buffalo Sabres needed a victory. 
Ales Kotalik provided the win, scoring 1:53 into the third peri­od to lift Buffalo over New York and pull the Sabres into a tie with the Rangers for fourth place in the Eastern Conference. It also evened Buffalo's record at 2-2 during the six-game trip. 
"We needed this win tonight after losing the last two games in Calgary and Vancouver," said goaltender Ryan Miller, who stopped 23 shots while improv­ing his record to 14-7-0. "It's getting to that time of the year, we've played 50 games and once we hit that Olympic break there won't be much time left before the playoffs." 
Kotalik scored his 19th goal after Hangers defenseman Marek Malik gave up the puck in his own end. Kotalik scooped up the loose puck, wheeled and fired a wrist shot that beat Henrik Lundqvist. 
Thomas Vanek gave Buffalo a 1-0 lead with a power-play goal at 11:13 of the.first period. Lundqvist stopped Kotalik's slap shot from the left point, but lost sight of the rebound long enough for Vanek to chip the puck high to the glove side for his 13th goal. 
"1 didn't see the puck at all," Lundqvist admitted. "It just hit me, I was looking for it, and I almost got it, but it hit my glove and went in. I think that they were good on the power play, they got a lot of traffic in front of me. It was hard to see pucks and I really had to work hard to see shots." 


Predators 2, Red Wings 1 
DETHOIT -Tomas Vokoun frustrated the Detroit Red Wings for the second straight night and Paul Kariya and Steve 

Wt:dnesday, January 25, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NFL 

Seahawks draw strength from Holmgren's past 
have gone through the game, the family, all these relatives

Holmgren to coach 
that helps," said llolmgren, who you don't even know about. and in fourth Super Bowl was an assistant with the 4<JArs rnality hit." whAn they won the 19S9 and The good thing about Super Associated Press 1990 Super Bowls, then head Bowl reality for the Seahawks, eoaeh with Green Bay for a vie­who are 3 112-point underdogs 
KIHKLAND, Wash. -To Matt tory in 1997 and a loss in 199S. to the Pittsburgh Steelers, is Jlassnlbnek, tho bnst thing "The more you can explain it that Holmgren and five players about Snahawks eoach Mikn to them, the better," hn said. have dealt with it. Center llolmgrnn right now is not his "Some of' them will get there Hobbie Tobeck went with ganw planning. It's not how he and won't believe what's going Atlanta for the 1999 game. handlns his playnrs or assem­on. Defensive tackle hlns a stall'. "This is like Chuck Darby won
''Talking to them

For thn Snattln quartnrback, nothing you will it with Tampa Bay t.lw most irnprnssive thing about evnr go through today, they were three years ago. Jlolmgron is that he's been to preparing for a So did wide
still in that stage of 

tlw Supnr Bowl. game." receiver Joe
pinch me, did il

And now lw 's going back with Such as the Jurevieius. 
a third f'ranchiso. demand for tick­really happen?" Defensive end "It was rnally a comforting ets. Grant Wistrom got f•~nling today for him to say, And gntting a ring in the 2000
Mike Holmgren

'Wiwn I was in this Super Bowl, family and frinnds game with the
Seahawks' head

wn did this, and in that one, we to Detroit, then Hams, and lost in did this,"' llassnlbeek said housing thnm. coach 2002 with St. Monday, his first full day as Distractions. dis-Louis. Punter Tom quartnrbaek of' an NFC champi­tractions, distrac-Houen also went on. "I fool wn are really pre­tions. twiee, winning with Denver in parnd." "Talking to them today, they 199Sand 1999.The1998game 
Jlolmgrnn is going to make were still in that stage of pinch was a win over Holmgren's 1:nrtain of' that. Oh, sure, he let me, did it really happen?" Packers. llw Snahawks enlebrate Sunday Holmgren said. "It was kind of' For everyone else, uncharted night and relax Monday. They rnf'rnshing. territory. havn thn day off' Tuesday, "I think they still an~ thinking "I just can't stop smiling," although many will deal with about that a little today; some league MVP Shaun Alexander thn logistics for Detroit -a of' them looked a little tired to said, a wide smile creasing his dwrn in itsnlf'. me. Then we started talking face, of course. "It's a great 
"l'laynrs and eoaelws who about the tickets they neod for fooling." 

TENNIS 
Davenport furthers Grand Slam frustration w-ith loss 
Associated Press feeling for Lindsay Davenport. 6-2, 6-:~ Australian Open quar­well, then slowly get worse as on to beat Clijsters for the title. 
The top-seeded Davenport terfinal loss to Justine Henin­the mateh went on -it's a bad Jlenin-llardenne's semil'inal MEI.BOUHNE, Australia -It extended her Grand Slam title llardenne on Tuesday. feeling to have when you opponent will bn 2004 has bncomn an all-too-familiar drought to six years with a 2-6, "To get out there and play leave," the 29-year-old Wimbledon champion Maria 
Celebration of the Vigil Feast of Thomas Aquinas 
Patron Saint of Students and Universities 

American said. 
After winning the Australian Open in 2000, Davenport slipped out of the top 10, talked about retiring, then revived her career by regaining the No. 1 ranking and making finals here and at Wimbledon last year. 
But the constant throughout the past six years has been a failure to add to her three major Sharapova, who ousted fellow Hussian Nadia Petrova 7-6 (6), 6-4 after fighting off two set points in an error-strewn tiebreaker. 
Clijsters plays llingis, and WTA Championship winner Amnlie Maurnsmo takes on Patty Schnydor in quartnrfinals Wednesday, with the winners 
facing off in 
Thursday's semis. 


championships. "To get out there Clijsters and She took on a Mauresmo both
and play well, then 
new coach, Dave havn a chance of 
DiLucia, for this slowly get worse as r1~placing 
season and said the match went on Davenport atop Tuesday "there's the rankings.
-it's a bad feeling 
obviously still a lot Clijstnrs has to 
to have when you 
of stuff that I need reach the final; to get better." leave." Mauresmo has to "I guess I've got win the title and the opportunity have llingis def'nat
Lindsay Davenport 
now the next few Clijsters in the 
tennis player 
months to try and quarterfinals. 
With the Notre Dame Liturgical Choir Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
5:15 Mass January 27, 2006 
Sponsored by the Jacques Maritain Center, and the Departments of Theology and Philosophy 

make those improvements," she said, "givo it another shot in another few months." 
Davenport joined defending champion Serena Williams on the sideline -they met in the 2005 Australian Open final. 
Three women who weren't here a year ago are among those now chasing the title ­Belgians Henin-llardenno and Kim Clijsters were out with injuries last year, and three­time winner Martina Hingis was retired. 
The eighth-seeded llnnin­Hardenne's win over Davenport was not shocking. The reigning French Open champion has beaten Davenport in all three of their meetings at Melbourne Park, including the fourth round in 2003 and the quartor­finals in 2004, when she went 
Davnnport said losing her top ranking is inevitable, and that winning a fourth major rmnains her focus. 
"Evnn though tonight maybn I took a step backwards, I still font likn I'm in thn right dirnc­tion," slw said. "I wouldn't stay out here and I wouldn't givn it my all if' I didn't fen) like it was still rnaehabln." 
In mnn's play, fourth-seednd David Nalbandian has no chance of taking Hoger Fednrnr's No. 1 ranking at this tournament -but he's aiming for back-to-baek wins ovnr the Swiss star. They are on a path to meet in tho final. 
Tho 24-year-old Argnntinn advanced to thn semifinals by winning the last 14 games in a 7-5, 6-0, 6-0 win ovnr 33-year­old Frenehman Fabriee Santoro. 






OUND THE NATION 
page 22 COMPILED FROM THE ()BSf:RVER'S WlRE SERVlCES Wednesday, January 25, 2006 
NHL 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division team record OT points Philadelphia 30-11 8 68 
NY Rangers 28-14 7 63 New Jersey 25·19 5 55 NY Islanders 20-24 3 43 Pittsburgh 11·29 9 31 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record 01 point'> 
4 70
Ottawa 33·10 
Buffalo 29·15 3 
61 
3 51 Montreal 21-19 6 
Toronto 24·21 
48 8 46Boston 19·21 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record OT points 
Carolina 33·11 4 70

-Tampa Bay 25-20 3 53 Atlanta 23·20 6· 52 Florida 18·24 7 43 Washington 17·25 5 39 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team record OT points 
Detroit 32·13 3 67 Nashville 30-12 6 66 Chicago 16-27 6 38 Columbus 17-30 2 36 St. louis 11-29 7 29 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record OT points 
Calgary 29·14 5 63 Vancouver 28-16 5 61 Colorado 27-19 3 57 Edmonton 25·18 6 56 Minnesota 23·21 4 50 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record OT points 
Dallas 31-15 2 64 los Angeles 30·18 3 63 Anaheim 21-16 10 52 San Jose 22-17 6 50 Phoenix 24-23 2 50 
CCHA Conference Standings 
conf. pts. overall 
1 Miami (OH) 14-3·2 30 17-4·4 
2 Northern Michigan 10-9·1 21 14-11·1 
3 Michigan State 8-6·4 20 14-9·5 
4 lake Superior 8-7-3 19 12-7-5 
5 Michigan 9·6·1 19 14-9·1 
6 Ohio State 8-8·2 18 12·10·4 
7 Bowling Green 8-11·1 17 12-14-1 
8 ferris State 6·6·5 17 11-8-6 
9 Nebraska-Omaha 7-9·2 16 13-11-2 
10 NOTRE DAME 6-9·3 15 8-13-3 
11 Alaska Fairbanks 6·10·2 14 10-11-3 
12 Western Michigan 5·11·2 12 5·16-3 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Maryland at Georgia Tech 7 p.m., ESPN Cincinnati at Louisville 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 
Minnesota at Memphis 9 p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS 
2006 Australian Open . 2 p.m., ESPN2 10 p.m., ESPN2 
NHL 


Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -Unlike many aging superstars, Mario Lemieux's problem wasn't that his heart was no longer in the game. Rather, his heart no longer allowed him play the game the way he had always played it. 
The Lemieux way ­with greatness and grace, with dominating skills but also with a quiet dignity -may prove very difficult for future generations of hockey players to rival. 
Lemieux, his Hall of Fame talent eroded by an ongoing heart problem, 

retired from the Pittsburgh Penguins for the second time Tuesday in a long, productive yet star-crossed career, but this time was different. 
This was the last retire­ment. and the tears in his eyes and the quiver in his voice said so. So did the proud but sad looks on the faces of wife Nathalie, their four children and the Penguins players who gathered to say goodbye, even though it visibly pained all to do so. 
"This is it," Lemieux said, "and it hurts." The 40-year-old Penguins owner-player 
learned in early December he has atrial fibrillation, an irregular heartbeat that can cause his pulse to flutter wildly and must be controlled by medication. He returned Dec. 16 against Buffalo, but the problem flared up again in the third period and he has not played since. 
Lemieux, the NHL's sev­enth-leading career scor­er with 1,723 points, practiced the last several weeks with the intent of playing again. But after several repeat episodes of an irregular pulse, he decided his health should be his primary considera­tion, especially with a raft of new stars turning the NHL into a faster, younger man's game. 
"If I could play this game at a decent level, I'd come back and play," Lemieux said. "This is • really a new NHL and it's built on speed and young guys." 
Lemieux is also experi­encing side effects with his medication, and he may undergo surgery to correct the problem. He spoke Tuesday to Toronto coach Pat Quinn, who told Lemieux he had the same operation and has felt much better since he did. 
IN BRIEF 
Bonds will not play in World 
Baseball Classic 
SAN FRANCISCO -Barry Bonds decided he is unwilling to risk his health in the World Baseball Classic. 
If he's going to get hurt, the slugger will do so in a San Francisco uniform. 
Bonds, no stranger to changing his mind, withdrew from the 16-nation tournftment Monday because he wants to avoid the chance of an injury that might jeopardize what could be his final season with the Giants. 
"When my name was first announced for the WBC, my gut reac­tion was that I wanted to play. After much thought and discussion with my family I have decided to remove myself from the upcoming World Baseball Classic roster." Bonds wrote on his Web site http://www.barry­bonds.com . 
The seven-time NL MVP had three operations on his troublesome right knee last year and missed most of the 2005 season before returning Sept. 12 and playing in 14 games. He announced in late November that he planned to play for the United States and was included on the preliminary 

U.S. roster for the inaugural World Baseball Classic, scheduled for March 3-20. Bode Miller disqualified in 
World Cup Slalom 
SCHLADMING, Austria -Bode Miller was disqualified after straddling a gate during the first run of a World Cup slalom event, won by Finland's Kalle Palander on Tuesday. 
American Ted Ligety, who had the leading time in the first run, and Olympic champion Jean-Pierre Vidal also were disqualified for running over a gate. 
Palander put together two near-per­fect runs to win his first World Cup race of the season, finishing in a com­bined time of 1 minute, 42.34 seconds. 
"Unbelievable," Palander said at the finish line. "My last win is two years ago. I can hardly remember feeling so great after a win." 
The World Cup victory was Palander's lOth and first since a Sestriere slalom in March 2004. He also won on Schladming's Planai course three years ago. Steelers to wear white jer­
seys in Super Bowl 
PITTSBURGH -To coach Bill Cowher, the Pittsburgh Steelers simply look right in white. 
The Steelers will buck years of tradi­tion and wear their white away uni­forms in the Super Bowl against Seattle, even though they are desig­nated by the NFL as the home team and could wear their more imposing black jersey tops. 
The black jerseys and gold pants are the Steelers' traditional look, and numerous sports teams have switched to black uniforms in recent years because they believe it creates a more intimidating presence. 
Cowher made the choice by himself and without consulting with owner­ship, saying, "We're not playing at Heinz Field so, in my mind, it's an away game." 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, January 25, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
MEN'S BASKETBALL
NBA 

Irish can inch close, 


Artest-Stoj akovic deal off 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -The Hon Artest trade to Sacramento is oil' -for now. 
The Pacers had reportedly agrned to ship the volatile for­ward to tho Sacramento Kings f(Jr Pnja Stojakovk, but Indiana coach Hick Carlisle said Tuesday night that no deal was immi­nent. 
"Thorn is no trade right now and them may not be a trade," Carlisle said bnforn Indiana played the Cavaliers in Clevnland. "Them's nothing to talk about bneause there is no trade." 
ESPN and The Indianapolis Star had reported earlier Tuesday that the teams had agrnnd to the trade, whieh was nwrely awaiting loague approval. But Carlisle shot down that rnport. 
"Anything involving specula­tion and 'what's up' ean be saved filr another time," Carlisle said. "If there is a tradn at some point, you'll hear about it." 
Artest conlirmnd to the Star that the dna! had eollapsed, but lld't open the possibility that something eould still happen. 
"There's no deal," Artnst told tho nowspaper by telophone. "It's not that I don't want to play there ... I'm letting my agnnt hamllo things. lie's taknn ovnr things." 
Artest's agm1t, Mark Stevens, had told The Assodated Prnss narlior Tunsday that a doctl to move Artnst "is imminent, 

, Jllmm;t as soon as possible." After tho trade apparently eol­lapsod, ho did not return phone <~ails from the AP. Tlw dnal would havn ended a lnngthy standoff betwenn the 
Pacers and Artest, who was deaetivatnd in December after requesting a trade and was sus­pended most of last season for his role in one of the worst brawls in U.S. sports history. 
Sacramento of'f'icials and coach Hkk Adelman would not commnnt before the team played at Philadelphia on Tuesday night, and Stojakovic was not at the arena with the team. lie was listed on the active rost<1r but was nowhere to bn soon at tipoff. 
"lie's. got to be a little con­fusnd right now if they wanted to trade him," Kings forward Shareof Abdur-Hahim said of Stojakovic, who had traveled with the loam but staynd behind 


but can only get so far 
at the hotel. 
Before the deal apparently broke down, Kings players were already talking about the trade as if it was a done deal. 
"Peja will be missed," Kings forward Corliss Williamson said. "lie's been in Sacramento for a lot of years, but life goes on in the NBA. 
"We'll welcome Hon Artest with open arms and hope he'll be able to help us. You always hear about the situations he's been in and all the hypo. Maybe this is the change-.llC needs, to ?on~.e into our system and flour­tsh. 
Instead, the Pacers arc still looking for a place to send Artost. 
Best Wishes to the Graduating Class of2006 
in most of their games to win at the end. Four of the live losses 
and to the Incoming Class of2010 
have come by six points or fewer. And the team showed
DEDICATION 
more heart and light on
For Utmost Abundant Blessings Upon 
Tuesday than even its coach had
All Students, Faculty, Staff, Benefactors, Friends, and Advertisers ofCatholic Education Worldwide, and Most Particulary for the Following Schools, 

seen up to this point. and to St. Thomas Aquinas, 1226-1274, Patron Saint ofCatholic Colleges 
"I thought we played more and St. Bemardine ofSiena, 1381-1444, Patron Saint ofAdvertising 
passionately maybe then we played in a while," Brcy said. 
SCHOOL; FOUNDED; CIRCA-ENROLLMENT; LOCATION; OTHER 
"We showed morn emotion." 
Aqulnat College; 1886, Dominicans; 2,500; Grand Rapids, Michipn Ave Marla Unlvenlty; 2004, Thomas S. Monaghan; 307; Naples, Florida; Ground Broken in 2005 for permanancnt campus ofc.6,000 students 
But in college basketball con­
Barry Unlvenlty; 1940, Dominicans; 3,276; Miami Sho...,., florida 
ference play -and especially in 
Botton College; 1863, Jesuits; 13,700; Chestnut Hill, Massachusells Canltlaa College; 1870, Jesuiu; 5,048; Buffalo, New York; Named after St. Peter Canisius, an original member ofthe Society of Jesus 
Notre Dame's situation-a dou­ble-overtime loss is still a loss. 
Catholic Unlvenlty of America; 1887, U.S. Bishops; 2,587; Washington, D.C. Creipton Unlvenlty; 6,300; Omaha, Nebrasb 
And the schedule doesn't get 
DePaul University; 1898, Vinccntians; 23,000; Chicago, Illinois 
any easier. 
Duquenae Unlvertlty; 1878; 8,000; Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Motto-Spiritua est qui vivificat-lt is the Spirit who gives life Falrlleld Uolvenlty_; Jesuits; 3,300; Fairfield, Connecticut 
The Irish faee No. 6 Villanova 
Fordham Unlvertlty; 1841, Jesuits; 15.000; Bronx, New York 
at the Joyee Cnnter on Saturday, No. 13 West Virginia on the road Feb. 1 and l.ouisville at Frnedom Hall that following Saturday. The 1-5 reeord easily could be 1-8 by Feb. 5, if not because Notrn Dame is strug­gling then bncausn the upcom­ing schnduln would bn daunting for any team in the country­not to mention onn that still seems to bn diseovnring its iden­tity. 
"You've got to stay positive. Look at the league," Irish point guard Chris Quinn said follow­ing Tuesday's loss. "If we're negative, wn'll get blown out on Saturday." 
The question remains how mueh longer Notrn Damn ean remain positive af'ter losing dose games that not only take nightly tolls on the body, but deliver one mom blow to the psyche of a wounded team. 
Though the rneord doesn't show it, Brny and thn Irish havn made individual and colleetivn strides this snason. Quinn is unveiling his leadership capabil­ities after spnnding tlm~e years virtually in Chris Thomas' shad­ow. Center Torin Frands playPd inspirnd and tough on Tuesday. Hussnll Cartnr had perhaps his host game in a Notre Damn uni­form against thn lloyas, and tlw younger playnrs -Kyle McAiarney, in particular -an~ giving Brny morn personnel options. 
The problem is that even if this team eventually gnls, ovnr­comns its dnfensive dnfidendes and bncomns morn consistnnt and versatile on the ofTensive nnd -as it has only in flashes so far-it will bn too late. By the time Notrn Dame has an opportunity to win a chunk of league gamns to boost its confi­dem~e. thn clock will have run out. 
"You nevnr get used to losing," Irish forward Hob Kurz said, slouehnd in thn locker room fill­lowing the d<1feat, "espeeially ... losing a gamn like that." 
Give Brey all thn time hn needs after gamns for thn remainder of the 2005-06 sea­son. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Pat /,eonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Notre Dame coach Mike Brey held court at the postgame press conference after Tuesday night's 85-82 loss to Georgetown for approximately 14 minutes. 
It was a lengthy peri­od of time for a coach to speak, partic­ularly Brey. It was also unusual"t'or a eoach who had just lost in double-overtime,-at Sports Writer home, with now a 1-5 conffinmee record, to spend that mueh time talking about the heartbreaker. 
So why dwell on the situation? 
It appeared that-as the fifth-year eoach's voice shifted from monotone, to excited, to confused, to confident-Brey walmerely searching for answers. 
Though he knew before the season started that he needed to set lower expectations for this year's squad -which is younger, less experienced and less talented than in years past -Brey certainly eould not havn anticipated the feeling of begin­ning the Big East scheduln with only one win after six games. 
In his frrst season as Notre Dame coach (2000-01 ), Brey won the first night Big East games he coached. Prior to this year, the earliest a Notrn Dame team under Brey had sufl'ered its firth eonferm1ce loss of the season was on Feb. 4, 2004 two seasons ago against Boston College. 
Grantnd, this season's Irish have given themselves a chance 

Frandtcan Unlvertlty of SteubenvUie; 1946, Franciscans; 2,370; Steubenville, Ohio 
Georaetown Uolvenlty; 1789 Jesuits; Washington, D.C. Gonzaga Uolvertlty; 1887, Jesuits; 5,400; Spokane,Washington Immaculata Uolvenlty; 1920; 3,443; Immaculata. Pennsylvania 
lana College; 1940; 3,400; New Rochelle, New York La Salle Unlveralty; 1851, Lasallian; 6,221; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Loyola University Chicago; 1870, Jesuits; 18,3 I 9; Chieaso, Dlinois; largest ofthe 28 USA Jesuit schools Loyola Unlvenlty New Orlean•~ 1912, Jesuits; S,900; New Orleans, Louisiana 
Madonna Uolvenlty; 1947, Fclicians; 4,294; Livonia, Michigan 
Manhattan College; 18S3, l.a.sallian; 3,000; Rivenlale, New York Marquette Unlvcnlty; 1881, Jcsuiu; I 1,000; Milwaukee, Wisconsin Mount Saint Mary'• Unlvenlty; 1808; 2,125; Emmitsburg, Maryland 

r----· 
Nlagra Unlvenlty; 1856, Vicentians; 3,500; NiafP'I Univcnity, New York Providence College; 1917, Dominicans; S,200; Providence, Rhode Island 
Seton IIall Unlvenlty; 1856; 10,000; South Oranse. New Jersey; Started by Bishop Bayley, nephew ofSt. Elizabeth Ann Seton 

TAKE A STUQY BREAK 
St. Bonaventure Unlvenlty; 1858, Franciscans; 2,800; St. Bonaventure, New York SL John'• Ualveralty; 1870, Viccntians; 14,848; Queens, New York 

$2 off Lunch/ Brunch or 
SL Jooeph't Unlv•nlty; 1851, Jcsuits; 7,230; Philadelphia. Pennsylvania St. Loult Uolvenlty; 1818, Jcsuits; II,SOO; St. Louis, Missouri; First Catholic college west ofthe Mississippi 

$10 off Dinner for Two 
SL Mary'• College; Holy Cross; 1,571; Notre Dame, Indiana SL Peter'• College; 1872, Jesuits; 2,300; Jersey City, New Jersey Unlvortlty of Detroit Mercy; 1877, Jesuits/Mercy Sisters; 8,200; Detroit, Michigan 

Lunch Available M-F 
Unlvenlty of Notre Danw; 1842, Holy Cross; 8,200; Notre Dame. Indiana University of San Diego; 4,400~ San Diego, California 

Dinner Available any Night 
exp. 2/13/06
Unlnnlty of Sao Fraodtco; 18SS, Jesuits; 8,274; San Francisco, California V111anova llnlveralty; 1842, Augustinians; 6,285; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Xavier Uolvonlty; 1831, Jesuits; 6,450; Cincinnati, Ohio 

Located on Historic West Washington Street 
Sponsored by Ford Motor Company, and Bank ofAmerica 
Fonl Motor Company; f.l903, Henry Fonl; Deartlorn, Michipn; 500 employees in 1903, 300,000 employees in 2005 

620 West Washington, South Bend, IN 46601 
Ford Offering A $1,000 Rebate on the Purchase of Any 2006 Ford Vehicle, Please CaD 1-800-555-FORD 

57 4-234-9077 
Bank ofAmerica; f.1940; Los Angeles, California; 1,000 employees in 1940, 200,000 employees in 2005 Bank of America Offering New Credit Card Accounts With a $3,000 Credit Limit, Please Calll-800-555-BANK 

www.tippe.com 

Wednesday, January 25, 2006 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 

Lucchino, Epstein announce Theo's return as generaltnanager 
Hoyer, Cherington to take new positions 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Theo Epstein's new job is the same as his old one: general manager of the Boston Hed Sox. 
The Red Sox announced Tuesday that Epstein would resume his old duties-nothing more and nothing less than when he left on llalloween. 
"While Theo was contemplat­ing returning to the organiza­tion in an advisory role," Red Sox president Larry Lucchino said in a statement, "he and l talked and agreed it was best for the organization if he returned as general manager ­a title more appropriate for him because it accurately reflects the role he will play. 
"Theo returns as general manager to an organization that is difl'erent from the one he left on Oct. 31. The 14-year relationship between Theo and me, and the passage of time over the last three months, have helped to put behind us the fric­tion that developed during last year's negotiations." 
Once the youngest general managHr in baseball history and still the only one to win a World Series in Boston, Epstein walked away from his dream job on Halloween after a never­explained internal squabble convinced him he could no longer put his whole heart into the job. 
-was first reported by the Boston Herald on its Web site. Neither last week's statement nor the one released Tuesday specified what led to thfl fric­tion, though Lucchino alluded to an improved relationship between the business and base­ball sides of the organization. 
"Walls have 
But even after leaving -fleeing Fenway in a goril­ "Walls have crumbled,  crumbled, percep~ tions of one anoth~ er have changed,  
la suit to avoid the encamped media Epstein remained in touch  perceptions ofone another have changed and  and appreciation of one another has grown," Lucchino said. "As an  
with his former colleagues. After a half­ appreciation ofone another has  enhanced sense of 'team' has emerged, we have  
hearted search to  grown.  rediscovered that,  
replace him, the  whatever our dif­ 
Red Sox announced on Dec. 12 that Jed  Larry Lucchino Red Sox president  ferences may have been, baseball is at the center of  
Hoyer  and  Ben  our  operations  

Cherington, two of Epstein's for­and our lives, and working mer lieutenants, would serve as toward the success of the Red co-GMs. Last week, the team Sox is a commitment which all said Epstein would return to of us share." baseball operations full-time, in Epstein said in his statement a capaeity to be determined. that there were "fundamental 
Epstein's return as GM -his disagreements among members other title is being moved up a of upper management" about notch from senior vice presi­organizational priorities. dent to executive vice president "This lack of a shared vision, plus the stress of a far-too-pub­lic negotiation, strained some relationships, including mine with Larry Lucchino," he said. 


"Gradually, with the benefit of time and greater perspective, we tackled not only our person­al conllicts but also the differ­ences regarding our thoughts for the organization. We emerged. 10 weeks and many spirited conversations later, with the comfort of a shared vision for the future of the organization." 
Hoyer's new job will be assis­tant general manager, and Cherington was given the title of vice president of player per­sonnel. Bill Lajoie stays on as a special adviser for baseball operations and Craig Shipley was named vice president for international scouting and spe­cial assistant to the general manager. 
!Ioyer and Cherington acknowledged that they knew when they took the GM job that Epstein was expected to return. 
NFL 


NFL criticized for non-minority coach hirings 
Chiefs become first team to trade for black head coach 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -This month, for the first time, an NFL team traded for a black head coach. 
Otherwise, the annual round of hirings has been a disap­pointment to those who have worked to bring more diversity to the league's coaching ranks. Nine out of 10 openings have been filled, with no net gain in the current tally of six black head coaches. 
"We have some things to point to that we think are 
successful," "We have some lawyer Cyrus things to point to 
Mehri said 
that we think are

Tuesday at a 
forum on hiring successful. We had practices spon­a record number of 
sored by the 
interviews this 

American 
Constitution year, over 2 6, Society. "We had a which will increase 
record number of 
or strengthen the 

interviews this 
year, over 25, pipeline as we go which will forward." increase or strengthen the 
Cyrus Mehri

pipeline as we go 

lawyer

forward. We also had for the first time a trade for prompted the league to create the "Hooney Rule," which requires teams to interview at least one minority candidate when searching for a new head coach. 
Since then, the number of black head coaches has increased from two to six in the 32-team league, arid more blacks are working in NFL front offices. Still, much more progress was expected this year because of the unusually high number of vacancies. 
"The Hooney Rule is doing a good job," said Michael Haynes, the league's vice president of player and employee develop­ment. "It's a nice process, but it 
does not necessar­ily mean a com­mitment to diver­sity. I think there's a difference. Right now this is work­ing, but there's still some pitfalls." 
Mehri read the names of the nine coaches hired to date -Oakland is only team still with an opening. Black coach Herman Edwards was traded from the New York Jets to the Kansas City Chiefs, but most of the other hires were white assis­tants, including 

an African-American coach. former New England defensive 
"That being said, we still coordinator Eric Mangini, who believe that there's a double­at age 35 becomes the NFL's standard," he said. "We still youngest coach. believe it's an uphill battle, it's Mehri then read a list of not a level playing field, and minority candidates who there is evidence of racial bias weren't chosen: Art Shell, Jim in the hiring cycle." Caldwell, Tim Lewis, Ted 
It's been nearly 3 1/2 years Cottrell, Donnie Henderson, Ron since Mehri and the late Rivera, Maurice Carthon, Jerry Johnnie Cochran released a Gray and Greg Blache. landmark report that criticized "If you look at the first list NFL hiring practices and and compare it to the second list, you'll see that the black coaching candidates were at least as strong, if not stronger, than those who were selected," Mehri said. 
"Each team could say what their justifications were, but if you look at it collectively, it still shows that there's an uphill bat­tle for African-American coach­es." 
Even so, the panelists agreed that the leagu~ is headed in the right direction. Tony Dungy of Indianapolis, Marvin Lewis of Cincinnati and coach of the year Lovie Smith of Chicago led their teams to the playoffs with a combined regular-season record of 36-12. 

Most of the assistants on Mehri's list of overlooked blacks did get interviews, some with several teams, giving them a prominent place in the hiring pool for next year. 
The other three black head coaches are Arizona's Dennis Green, Cleveland's Romeo Crennel and Edwards. 
"I don't want to overlook the fact that Herman Edwards was able to move from the New York Jets to the Kansas City Chiefs. It's huge," said Hall of Fame tight end Kellen Winslow. 

It's ~1ozart' s Birtl1.day Bash! 

Featuring the Chicago Symphony's John Bruce Yeh performing Mozart's Clarinet Concerto Other Compositions include Magic Flute 
and Mussorgsky's Pictures at an Exhibition January 28th, 8:00 p.m. Tickets start at $18.00 adults and $8.00 children SouthBendSymphony.cmn or call 235-9190 

I:I'I{")WMJ:'« 
H>lr.'tlff:l~

Crowe 
~General 
ARTS 



Wednesday, January 25, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
MLB 


Mets don't wait to establish new team attitude 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-Spring training is a month away, and the 2006 Mds alroady have a themo: patienco and f(,rtitude. 
Players gathnrnd Tuesday on the stops of thn Nnw York Public l.ibrary lwhind tlw famous mar­bin lions, who have looknd down on Fifth AvonuP lin· nnarly a enn­tury and WPre giwn the names "Patience" and "Fortitude" by Mayor Fion~llo La(;uardia in the 11B0s. 
"You havn to have that every year, espneially in this town," rnanagnr Willie Handolph said. "That's a niee slogan to adopt." 
Seeking their first World Series title sinco 11JS6, the Mots laundwd thnir promotional cara­van in tho marble Celeste Bartos Forum under its ]0-l'oot-high glass dome. They were set to honor their 11JS6 World Series championship team later Tuesday night at the Baseball Assistance Team's annual dinner. 
"Hight now we've got the edge. All we have to do is go out there and play, and play how we know how to play," outfielder Cliff Floy~ said. "I th!.nk it should be a reallun season. 
Floyd said the Mnts have got­ten "1 00 percent better" during the offseason, when they aequirnd 11rst baseman Carlos Delgado and catcher Paul Lo Duca from the Florida, signed free-agent eloser Billy Wagner and traded for setup men Jorge Julio and Duaner Sanchez. They are seeking their first NL East title since 1988. 
"I fool n~ally good about our chances," Dolgado said. "We've got a pretty complnte balldub to Inn." 
The Mots already have sold 1 million tieknts. up about 300,000 from the same point last year. Tlwy hope to sell 2 million tickets bolbre oponing day and reaeh 3 million this year, chief operating ollieer Jell' Wilpon said. 
Delgado, who said he will stand for "God Bless Ameriea" bocausfl it is Mets team policy, would not address critical rt~marks made by Anna Benson, the wife ol' pitcher Kris Benson, who was traded by the Mets to 13altimore last week. 
''I'm not going to eomment on what anybody else said," Dnlgado said. 
As players posed on the stnps of the library and shoutnd "I love New York!" for the cameras, passers-by took photographs. Above them, on the wall of the library, was the inscription: "But above all things, truth bearnth away the victory" 
Baek inside, one of the onlook­ers was former Met Darryl Strawberry, who was an oeca­sional instructor for the Mel'> last year. lie said he enjoyed working with young players. 
"That's what I needed ba1:k in my days. We ne1~d it. even more now," said Strawb1~rry, who has struggled to overcome drugs, alcohol, violent behavior and tax troubles. 
Strawberry said young players become stronger if they get advice. 



Junior Katie Carroll swims during Notre Dame's 163-135 victory over Minnesota at Rolf's Aquatic Center Nov. 11. 

Information Session 
for those interested in the position of 




Assistant Rector 
for University Residences 
Wednesday, January 25, 7:30-8:30 p.m. Fischer Community Center 
(at Fischer O'Hara Grace Graduate Residences) 
Light refreshments served 



Streak 
continued from page 28 
the Irish their most recent defeat, the Boilermakers may 
have  inadvertently  given  
Notre Dame the key  to  its  
recent run of success.  

"Against Purdue, we went into the meet pretty confident that we would win, and we were more concerned with them than we were with our­selves," head coach Carrie Nixon said .. "That meet, though, made us realize that we need to focus on our strengths rather than the other team's weaknessos. I think that realization inter­nalized us, and that helped us improve every meet. That was the turning point." 
Fruits of' the team's change in philosophy soon followed as the Irish reeled off consec­utive dual meot victories against Pittsburgh and Minnesota. 
The Minnesota vietory was one to remember, as it was Nixon's first home victory as head coach. It was also an important victory as it started to build the team's conl'i­dence. 
"Taking down a prominent Big Ten team like Minnesota, one that we were evenly matched with, really gave us confidence to know that we can beat a team of our cal­iber," Nixon said. 
After dispatching the Golden Gophers, Notre Dame finished the fall semester strong with first-place victories in two invitational meets. 
The first was the 10-toam Minnesota Invitational where the Irish rallied from RO points down on the final day or the three-day meet to tri­umph over the same Minnesota team of a week ago. 
Notre Dame led from start to finish a week later as it won its own Notre Dame Invitational. 
The improvement and build up of momentum were bla­tantly visible by that point as the Irish set three season best times, two career best times, three NCAA 'B' cut times and two meet and pool records throughout their three-day invitational. 
Nixon credited the team's continued improvement to the difficult training to whieh she subjected them. 
"We really worked hard on our endurance base," she said. "Wn were learning how to be better athletes. It takes a while to learn that because it builds up over the course of a season." 
Coming off of an intense two-week training trip during Christmas break, the swim­ming and diving team contin­ued Notre Dame's dominance over the state of Miehigan. 
First. the Irish obtained their firth consecutive vietory with a defeat of' No. 15 Michigan, and they brought the streak to six with last weekend's defeat of' Miehigan State. 
"The Miehigan meet was really ieing on the eake for us," Nixon said. "It showed us we ean rally at. the end, and that we've trained hard enough that wn ean outlast our op(}(lllents." 
Three months and six wins later,·Notre Dame barely rec­ognizes the tnam that returned from West Lafayette 
with  a  winless  dual  meet  
rneord.  
With  the  Big  East  
Championships  less  than  

thrn~ weeks away, the timing eouldn't be any better for thn surging Irish. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
For further information visit http:1/osa.nd.edul 


Write for Sports. 
Calll-4543. 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 25, 2006 
Hoyas 
continued from page 28 
up not to foul," Thompson said. "It didn't happen that way, but we found a way to win. But I guess I Bowman! didn't get the memo." 
The madness didn't end there. 
With the score tied at 76 in the first overtime period, Irish for­ward Rob Kurz inbounded the ball with a second remaining and threw a baseball pass over 7 -foot­1 center Roy Hibbert down the court that got behind Georgetown's defense. 
Irish guard Chris Quinn caught the pass, but missed what would have been a game-winning layup. 
"I think you've got to try to win it on Quinn's layup," Brey said. "A game like that tonight, you've got to try to steal it." 
Quinn said after the game it was a shot he should have made because he was in position to catch Kurz's pass and was behind the Hoyas defense. 
Instead, the game went to dou­ble overtime, where Georgetown found ways to score timely bas­kets, and Notre Dame struggled from the free throw line. 
Hoyas guard Darrell Owens, who finished with 18 points on 5­of-7 shooting, hit a 3-pointer with 
2:17 remaining that gave Georgetown an 83-79 lead. Notre Dame forward Rick Cornett was fouled on the next Irish posses­sion but missed both free throws. 
"We got [to the line] a little bit," Brey said. "And that sure would have helped us.... I love us at the line, but you have to convert those." 
Quinn answered back with a jumper at 1:33 to cut the lead to two. Quinn led all scorers with 26 points on 9-of-22 shooting. He also added 10 assists. 
But on the ensuing possession, Hibbert hit a turnaround in the paint to push the lead back to four -and ultimately seal the victory. 
Hibbert matched Owens as the high point man for Georgetown with 18. 
In a season that has been diffi­cult for Notre Dame -Tuesday's loss dropped the Irish to 1-5 in the Big East and 10-7 overall ­Quinn emphasized the need to continue to fight in the Big East. 
"We have got to stay positive," Quinn said. "As tough as this game was, as tough as some of our games were, we have to stay positive." 
Georgetown led for the entire game. Notre Dame only forced five ties in regulation, overtime and double overtime despite los­ing by three points. 
The Hoyas (13-4 overall, 4-2 in the Big East) got out to a quick start and led the Irish 29-14 with 
4:54 remaining in the first half. But two Quinn free throws with 
2:45 left ignited Notre Dame and sent them on a 10-4 run into half­time. 
"I don't think we played very well early in the game, and a lot of that was Georgetown," Brey said. "They are a very good bas­ketball team." 
Irish guard Russell Carter pro­vided an offensive spark for Notre Dame in the second hal[ Carter finished with eight points on 2-of­6 shooting, but his ability to run down loose balls and penetrate Georgetown's defense kept the Irish in the game. 
"[Carter] was excellent tonight," Brey said. "Russell's a tough kid ... and I thought his drives tonight and his offensive decisions were in the now of things. He let it happen." 
Georgetown fin~shed the game with five players -Owens, Hibbert, Wallace, forward Jeff Green and guard Ashanti Cook ­in double figures. 
Notre Dame has its work cut out with 10 games remaining before the Big East tournament. Brey said the Irish need to find positives from the loss in order to continue playing hard in the remaining games. 
"You're down, and you're not looking very good, but you give yourself a chance," Brey said. "Again, in January, you have got to hang your head on that right now, ifyou're digging, and you're fighting, you're in [the mix. I" 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 



Rutgers 
continued from page 28 

everything else for her. She'll get some points driving and score some points in transition." 
In that regard, Ajavon was like the rest of her teammates, contin­ually capitalizing on Notre Dame's 22 turnovers. Utilizing a full-court press much of the game, Rutgers scored 35 points off turn9vers and 16 on the fast break. The Irish did not have a single transi­tion basket. 
"They were able to take our turnovers and score in transi­tion," Washington said. "Our turnovers against their press were a big factor." 
Notre Dame's problems were not limited to the turnover count. The Irish shot a putrid 32 percent (14-of-44) from the field and had just six assists. 
Notre Dame's problems were evident from the start. 
Rutgers took a 20-1 lead mid­way through the first half, but a methodical Irish comeback cut the deficit to 28-24 with 16:07 remaining in the game when Breona Gray nailed her second straight three-pointer of the sec­ond half. 
"When Breona hit that shot, we thought we were on a roll," Washington said. "But we went on another lull offensively and hurt ourselves with turnovers, and they capitalized on that." 
Capitalize did they ever. 
Ajavon led the Scarlet Knights' response to the Irish comeback, assisting on cons~:Jcutive baskets by Michelle Campbell and Essence Carson. The sophomore then nailed a three-pointer with 
14:16 remaining to put the Rutgers advantage back into dou­ble digits at 35-24. 
After Tulyah Gaines hit a jumper for the Irish at the shot­clock buzzer to cut the lead to nine, Ajavon responded by nailing another three and then making a steal and scoring on the ensuing fast-break-five points in 22 sec­onds. 
By the time the game stopped for the 12-minute television time­out, less than five minutes after Notre Dame cut the lead to four, Rutgers led 48-26 and did not look back. 
The Scarlet Knights stayed in a full-court press and forced even more Irish turnovers. Senior standout Cappie Pondexter led the charge this time, scoring six points in the next four minutes, and Rutgers took a 60-30 lead to cap off a devastating 32-6 ruil by the Knights. 
"I thought we did a pretty decent job on Cappie in the first half," Washington said. "When you have players who can create their own shot and a team so rounded offensively, it's tough to keep them down for 40 minutes, as we saw tonight." 
The game looked like it would get out of hand early, as the Scarlet Knights racked up a 20-1 lead 10 minutes into the game. Rutgers scored 20 straight points after Crystal Erwin hit one-of-two free throws for the Irish in the opening seconds of the contest. 
"Early on in the game, we had a few more turnovers than we would have liked," Washington said. "Those turnovers gave them a few more [easy] opportunities." 
It was the sensational sopho­more guard who led the early Rutgers charge, tallying 14 points and two steals in the first half alone. Ajavon, who entered the game averaging 11 points per game, connected on 5-of-10 shots from the field, including 3-of-5 from behind the line, in the open­ing 20 minutes. 
The Irish broke Rutgers' stran­glehold and scored the next 13 points, starting when Duffy hit a long three at the shot-clock buzzer to register Notre Dame's first field goal of the night. But the Irish trailed 26-18 at halftime. Gray opened the scoring in the second half with a bucket from downtown to cut Rutger's lead to 26-21. She hit another three­pointer two minutes later, and the Rutgers lead was just four. 
From there, the Scarlet Knights took over. 
Notes: 
+ Irish freshman Chandrica Smith nearly registered the first double-double of her career, tally­ing nine points and 10 rebounds in 24 minutes of action. Smith was three-of-seven from the field and three-of-five from the line. 
"We had some bright spots," Washington said. "Smith stepped in and had a great game, almost had a double-double. She played very aggressi~ely." 

+Duffy was the only Irish play­er to reach double figures, scor­ing 10 points on two-of-eight shooting from the floor. Each of her field goals was a three-point­er, and she made all four of her attempts from the free-throw line. 
"They were running two or three people at her," Washington said. "They put a few defenders on her to make it tough for her to get her shots off. I thought she handled it pretty well. The thing is, we just needed other people to kind of step up and take control, in terms of trying to get us going offensively." 
Dufly had three assists and two rebounds. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 


defeated Alma once this year minutes," Bender said. "That left Athletic Center on Saint Mary'sAl01a • but, without Lipke, the MIAA me feeling pretty good about the campus. 
assists leader, they have their [Alma] game." continued from page 28 work cut out for them. Alma, a The teams will square off Contact Fran Tolan at 
team that averages more than 70 tonight at 7 p.m. in the Angela ftolan@nd.edu 
First and foremost, the team points per contest, played unde­must find a way to make up for feated Hope this week and led the loss of point guard Bridget with eight minutes to go before Lipke, who will eventually losing a 
most likely miss her second straight  "We played a great  close one. "We know they  
game due to injury.  I 2 minutes. That  have a very high­ 
Also, the Belles must focus on play­ing a complete game. Against  left me feeling pretty good about the [Alma] game."  powered offense, so we're going to have to put up a lot of points,"  
Adrian, they fell  Bender said. "We  
behind 32-9 in the first half and were never able to fully  Steve Bender Belles coach  need to find better team balance than we've had recent- 
recover. Starting  ly."  

slowly has been a major problem Bender said he was extremely for the team throughout the sea­pleased with his team's perform­son and Bender knows that it ance in the second half against could prove fatal against Adrian and hopes the strong play tonight's opponent. carries over into tonight's game. 
The Belles have already "We played a great final 12 

Need room to grow? Be TRU to yourself. 
Join TruGreen ChemLawn. 
If you love the great outdoors. you'll enjoy great success with the 
largest. most comprehensive landscape company in the country. 
Get the kind of advancement opportunities you~d expect from a Fortune 500 company: 
• Complete Benefit Package for Full Tlrne 
•Paid 
Holidays I Vacation 

•401 
K I Stock Purchase 



•Ffexible schedules for Part Time 
•Unlimited Income Potential 'We're tooking for Sales Representatives and Service Technicians to provlde excellent customer service and prob(ern solving skilfs_ No experience necessary ~ we provide paid training! Apply at 3606 Gagnon Street:, Sout:h Bend 46628 on 
VVEDNESDAV, JANUARY 25~h at 6 p.m. or SATURDAY, JANUARY 2Sth at: '1 p.rn_ "for on-t:he-spot: interviews. RSVP and call f'or directions at: (574) 233-9700 
TruGreen ChemLawn EOEIAAIMFDV 

Wednesday, January 25, 2006 The Obsenm·+ TODAY page 27 
ERIK POWERS & ALEC WHITE
JOCKULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 
,t\ND I C.Ot-!S I DE..~ "JOU M'\ SE.S.I Flt..IE.N't>. 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 End of another 61 Jenny Lind, actor's line, e.g.
1 Tear open 
maybe 6 Made like 
34 Camel DOWN10 Take on 

38 W. Hemisphere 
1 SALT party

14 Composer group Camille Saint-2 Goya
39 A deadly sin 
masterwork,40 Tiller's tool with "The"

15 Farming community, e.g. 41 In accord (with) 3 They make 
sense
43 Lewd 4 Abbr. on a bank 17 Camel 44 Stiff19 Legal matter 

statement 20 "Uh-oh" 
471! may be drawn 

5 nre letters 21 Still in the 
48 Quaking tree 6 It's inert 
game 49 NBC's "My 7 Heart,

22 Averse to 
Name Is essentially 25 Made square 
51 Figs. 8 Big times 26 Embryonic sac 
53 Camel 9 "Dapper" one 27 It may be 
57 Elementary 10 Semi, e.g.
rounded up in particles
a roundup 11 Monte of 58 Go leisurely Cooperstown

29 lana athletes 59 Wool caps 12 One of
30 Postage Chaucer'spurchase 60 Night fliers pilgrims 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 13 Like some seals 16 Split 
18 Eight bells 
23 Bit of trickery 
24 Parker 
25 They're caught in pots 


t-::i-=+-::-t.•~:t-:=+:-l_......,:+.=+:+=+=i 26 Soil: Prefix 
27 Work out 

···~]~:m~~~-~· 28 Sizable 
30 Hockey's ·-·-­
..;.;.+.:+::::+:-~ Smythe Trophy 
.::..1.::..1.::..1..::.J 31 Asian cuisine 



THE OBSERVER 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
D~ tv\ N. ~to.I Wf:>..S Fu~ t-1 '"/-'NE.\..L, \...E.TS C:to 'TO 
"'SE.I'I K.l N S' ol='F IC..f. 
ANt> \ELL HIM \-I.E.. LE..I='\ \-1. \S CA.it L\ C.'1 J..\I'S ON. 
At::IAIN l>.ND 
tr ADA'/. 

WILL SHORT'Z 

32 Plain  42 Lowish voice  49 Italy's Mt. _  
33 Barbara who  43 Uncontrolled  50 On  streak  
played a TV genie 35 It's inert 36 "Gil 37 Go ballistic 41 Pros  44 "It me!" 45 "The Verdict" actor, 1982 46 It may be found in a den 47 Reporter's badge  (winning) 52 Eye woe 54 Not be entirely truthful 55 Type widths 56 Scatter  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com!learning/xwords. 
Make cheeks payable to: and mail to: 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital souree of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two eampuses. Please eomplete the aeeompa­nying form and mail it today to reeeive The Observer in your home. 

JUMBLE 

JJiM~~ 
Unscramble lhese four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
I RAIFE 
j
I rI 

\J.J/'006 Tnbune Media Survices, Inc. 




r~rrl]
tNOYFLE j
I J r 
www.jumble.com 

IJ I I I 

Answer: 

"r I I I IIII I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday' I Jumbles: ABOVE HEFTY WHOLLY NEARBY s Answer: The weatherman was full of hot air when he 
forecast this -A HEAT WAVE 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 

CELI~IUHTIRS BORN ON HilS UA Y: Misch:1 Barton, ::!0; Tatvana Ali, 27; Mary Lou Retton, 38: Neil Diamond, b5 · 
Hnppy Birthday: Sort through the pa~t. take cat'C or pending problems and make sure you have done what's right whl·rc liiends, tlunily aml wllcagucs 31'l' wnccmed. Money matters can he worked oul this year if you hudget and spend wisely. An opportunity to change your lifestyle must be taken advantage of. Your numbers arc 8, 14, 17, 22, 38, 42 ARIES (March 21-April 19): You'll be in a very good position to do something that will bene lit others. Being a leader or at the center or whatcwr is going on will enable you to make needed reforms. Don't be afraitlto take a different approach.**" TAUR(JS (April 20-May 20): You may find yoursdf stuck or locked into something you really don't wamto be involved in. Slowly dista111:c )'ourself !'rom whatever or whoever isn't to your henefit. Change will lw necessary. •• GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): As long as you keep everything oul in the open and don't make rash decisions. you will do OK today. Focus on whatever job you've been given but make sure you are fully aware of the instructions that go along with this prqject. ••• CANCEl~ (.June 21-.July 22): You will be able to make professional or personal changes today. Your abilily to get along with everyone will make your life easier and advancement more I ikt:ly. Don't be afraid to take on a challenge today. •• • LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll be in such great demand that you won't know where to begin. You can make some personal changes, gel involved in a new partnership or even do something that will make other people lake noll'. Promote and sell yourself and your ideas. • • • • • VII~GO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): You will he walking on eggshells at home today. Don't start anything you can't finish. A problem with someone who changes plans on you will develop. Consider what you can do to counteral't whatcver dilemma you face. • • I-I liRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Everything you do will be dependent on what you've done in the past. Experience will enable you to lake a new approach loan old idea. You will be right on target when it comes to figuring out what everyone else needs and wants. •••• SCORPIO (O~t. 23-Nov. 21): Focus on whal you have to do. Personal matters may leave you feeling a lillie uncertain about your future. Don't let anger get the better of you. Put work ahead of your personal problems today. • • • SAGITTARHJS (Nov. 22-0ec. 21): Emotional deception is apparent. Try nol to avoid issues that must be dealt with even if it is uncomfortable for you. Concentrate on what really needs to be done and rcl·valuate your future. ••• CAI'RICORN (Ucc. 22-.lan. 19): Think things through carefully. You won't be able to ttust or rely on the people around you today. Someone is likely to take advantage of you if you let him or her. Get things done by yourself. •••• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. Ill): Do what you can for others but don't get taken tor granted. A problem with someone from your past is likl'ly. Deal with it directly and don'l bring a third party into.your dilemma. Keep the past and the present separate. • • PISCES (Feb. 19-Mnrch 20): Be careful not to make a move you will regret. You will change your mind quickly about your likes and dislikes and should try not to box yourself into a corner. The more frel'dom you leave yourself. the hetter. ••••• IJirthday Baby: You are curious and always looking for a new angle or trend. You arc intuitive. relentless and very quick to hlllow something or someone who interests you. You are loving, passionate and possessive. 
Eugenia~\' Web !ii(es: astrnadvice.com for fim, eugenia/a.\·t.comjOr cm,!itlt!ltlhll l'onsultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame. IN 46556 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

WHAT THE:: DE:FE:NSE: C.ONSIDE:RE:D THE: STAR RUNNING BAC.K. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surpnse answer. as suggested by the above car­

0 Enelosed is $100 for one aeademic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name----------~----------­
Address __________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
~------­

r--­
THE OBSERVER 








PORTS
Wednesday, January 25, 2006 
page 28 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Biting back 

Hoyas han.g on, down Irish 85-82 in double overtime 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame pulled off the unthinkable, and then almost did it again in a thrilling 85-82 dou­ble overtime loss to Georgetown Tuesday at the Joyce Center. 
Irish guard Colin Falls See Also converted a 4­
"Irish can inch
point play with 
1. 9 seconds close, but can left in regula­
only get so far" 
tion with 
page 23
Notre Dame trailing by four to send the game to overtime. Falls worked oft' a screen set under the basket and received an inbounds pass in the corner before drilling the shot and being fouled by Georgetown guard Brandon

-
Bowman. "We executed an out of bounds set really well. and we kind of called in on the fly," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "And he does get fouled on threes. That was a big play there." Georgetown coach John Thompson III was upset the game came down to double over­time given his orders on the last defensive possession in regula­tion. "The instructions are coming 
see HOYAS/page 26 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Rutgers routs Irish squad 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 
Matee Ajavon just made a name for herself. 
The Rutgers sophomore guard led the No. 9 Scarlet Knights Tuesday in a 69-43 romp of the No. 21 Irish in the Rutgers Athletic Center before a dazzled home crowd. 
Ajavon had a season-high 28 points on 11-of-18 shooting from the floor, including 5-of-7 from three-point range, to go along with her four assists and three steals. 
"She's a tremendous talent," Irish associate head coach Coquese Washington said. "When she's hitting her outside shot the way she did tonight, it sets up 
see RUTGERS/page 26 

ND SWIMMING 

Surging Irish ride big streak 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
One vietory can be chalked up to chance. Two wins in a row is a nice per­formance. Three is a win­ning streak. Six victories in a row -that's the current Notre Dame women's swimming and diving team. 
Flash back to Oct. 29, a time filled with pleasant weather, an increasing workload and many still recovering from the emo­tional scars or the usc football game. On Oct. 29, the women's swimming and diving team was recov­ering from a 172-128 loss to Purdue, its second con­secutive loss to open the season. 
Nearly three months later, it's safe to say that the recovPry is more than complete. Under the guid­ance and tutelage of first­year head coach Carrie Nixon, the team has reeled off six consecutive victories since that defeat in West Lafayette. 
Although Purdue handed 
see STREAK/page 25 


SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles ready to face conference foe Aln1.a 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 

After a heartbreaking one­point loss at Adrian last Saturday, Saint Mary's looks to rebound tonight in another MIAA showdown against Alma at home. 
With just seven games remaining -all against confer­ence opponents -the Belles are looking to regain the momentum that they carried in the two-game winning streak they put together before the Adrian loss. 
A strong fmish to the season would probably give the Belles one of the top four seeds in the MIAA going into the conference tournament. This would be very significant for the team because it would allow the Belles to play their opening round game at home, a feat they have never accomplished. 
"It would definitely be a tremendous boost for us to host a conference playoff game," coach Steve Bender said. "That's definitely one of our big goals." 
Currently, Saint Mary's (7-11 overall, 5-4 MIAA) sits in fourth place in the conference, one game ahead of Albion. 
But before the Belles look toward the postseason, Bender said they have some issues to resolve. 
see ALMA/page 26 
MLB 
MLB 
NHL 
NHL

TENNIS 
NBA
en 
w 
The Boston Red Sox
1--
Co) In search of their first 
Pittsburgh Penguins 

Top-seeded Lindsay 
Boston 3 
Cleveland 96 

z World Series since 1986, 
announced Tuesday that 
center Mario Lemieux 

Davenport fell to Justine 
Atlanta 2 
Indiana 66 
the New York Mets 
general manager Theo 
retired for the second 

Henin-Hardenne in the 
Bruin P.J. Axelsson 
LeBron James scored
::5 
= have a new attitude in 
Epstein will return to 
time Tuesday. 

quarterfinals of the 
scored with just over 
23 points to lead the 
place for 2006. 
the role he occupied 

Australian Open 
seven minutes left to 
host Cavs over the
cc 
before leaving at the 

Tuesday. 
break a 2-2 tie. 
Pacers. 
end of October. 
!:i 
page 22 
page 24 
page 22 

page 19
page 21 
page 18 





