
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Kernan addresses conflicts on death penalty 
Former Indiana governor explains personal issues, policies at NDASK's third lecture 
By KATIE KOHLER 
News Writer 
Joe Kernan made history by granting two death row inmates clemency during his term as Indiana governor ­decisions that generated dis­cussion during Notre Dame Against State Killing's (NDASK) third guest lecture Wednesday night in the Hammes Student Lounge of the Coleman-Morse Center. · 
"The death penalty is a very serious issue," said Kernan, an adjunct professor of political science and 1968 Notre Dame graduate. "It was life-altering for me." 
During a lecture entitled "The Reality of the Death Penalty's Application," Kernan spoke about the decisions he m a d e regarding the death penalty while in office. 
Kernan, who said he supports the death penal­ty in principle, opposed employ­ing it twice while governor. He has said the death penalty should only be used in the most serious cases. When he granted clemency in 2004, it marked the first time in 48 years that a death sentence was repealed in the state of Indiana. 


Kernan's first death penalty clemency case involved a rob­bery and murder by Darnell Williams in 1986. According to Indiana statute, Williams was eligible for the death penalty after jurors found him guilty beyond a reasonable doubt of committing two statutory aggravators -a crime involv­ing multiple victims and mur­der in the course of a robbery. 
"When it came apparent to me that we were going to see this case, I called my staff together to see how to approach it and give it the scrutiny it deserves," Kernan said. 
Having never dealt with such a decision before, Kernan and his staff were faced with new obstacles. 
"It became as sobering as it gets. It was something com­pletely new to us," he said. 
Once the process began, Kernan sought counsel from University President Emeritus 
see KERNAN/ page 4 

Panel examines University culture 
rituals and lack of self-esteem -characteristics, the skit argues, that make Notre Dame prone to this violence. 
While audience members suggested the· creation of co-ed dorms and more resources for women who have children on campus, more broadly, they noted the need for a changed attitude toward sex and gender relations. That idea of a bigger cultural adjustment was the emphasis throughout the dis­cussion. 
Mahmood said Notre Dame needs a "deeper cultural change" to combat sexual vio­lence on campus, including redefining femininity and mas­culinity as well as how men and women relate to one another. 
Another problematic aspect of Notre Dame culture, pan­elists said, is the issue of silence in response to sexual violence. 
"The culture of silencing is 
see LOYAL/page 3 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM Students discuss legalities 
Undergrads receive off-campus advice 
By EILEEN DUFFY Assistant News Editor 
At the request of the Student Senate, Notre Dame Law School students gathered in a DeBartolo classroom Monday night to offer some legal expertise to would-be off-campus undergraduates. 
The six law students, who are all members of the Notre Dame Legal Aid Clinic, provided infor­mation on landlords, leases and the city's controversial recently amended disorderly house ordi­nance in what Clinic director Bob Jones called "preventative lawyering." 
"We're: happy to do this because we typically see people after they get in trouble, and we're trying to untangle them," Jones said. "We're trying to make you educated consumers." 
The law students first covered the basic rights and responsibili­ties of landlords and renters, then outlined the steps of mov­ing in and moving out. 
Law student Mary Komperda suggested involving the landlord in all steps of the process, from reading the original lease to walking around the empty apartment or house together. 
Law student Matt Lilly then offered advice for "when things go wrong," urging students to keep written records in all inter­actions with the landlord, should a case end up in court. 
"And if, God forbid, you end up 
see LAWS/page 3 


BySONIARAO News Writer 
The relationship between the culture of the "Notre Dame bubble" and sexual violence on campus was central to the third and final post-performance panel discussion of "Loyal Daughters" Wednesday night. 
History professor Gail Bederman moderated dialogue between theology professor Maura Ryan, Lynn Bradford of the St. Joseph County SOS Rape Crisis Center, anthropology pro­fessor Cynthia Mahmood and "Loyal Daughters" author Emily Weisbecker. 
Mahmood said colleges have high rates of sexual assault and "Notre Dame's campus is not exceptional Ito this trend]." 
Her comment referred to a scene in the play that addresses certain aspects of Notre Dame culture such as male bonding, celebrations of tradition and 
STUDENT SENATE 
Collllllittee heads detail projects 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Officers and committee chairs reported on their ongo­ing projects at a brief meeting of the Student Senate Wednesday. 
Student body vice president Bill Andrichik informed mem­bers that the Campus Life Council (CLC) delayed voting on a Senate resolution passed unanimously Nov. 1. The CLC voted to send that resolution ­which would provide resources to the Native American student population -to a newly creat­ed ad hoc committee to rework it so it falls under the purview 
see SENATE/page 4 


Fair Trade handicrafts sold on ND campus 
Profits benefit artisans of developing nations 
By JENNIFER METZ 
News Writer 
The colorful beads, pots and other handicrafts for sale this week in LaFortune and the Mendoza College of Business will leave some students thinking they stumbled upon an interna­tional open-air market-and, in a sense, they have. 
The handcrafted goods are from developing countries and are being sold on campus this week as an opportunity for stu­dents to learn about Fair Trade and the artisans behind the crafts. 
The shops, open today in the Dooley Room of LaFortune and tomorrow in the Mendoza Atrium from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., are co­sponsored by the Office of International Studies, International Student Services and Activities and the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies in collaboration with Ten Tbousand Villages -an organi­zation that provides income for artisans by telling their stories and selling their goods in North America. 
Assistant Director of International Student Services and Activities Connie Peterson­Miller said she hopes the shops 
see GOODS/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Phoxy and phabulous 
When it comes to dorm life at Notre Dame, many prominent figures stand out. 
There's the picturesque arch in Lyons, the gargoyles on Alumni, the towering pres-Katie McDonnell 
ence of the Manor, the "Go Irish" sign in that News Writer far away land we all know as Carroll Hall. 
But not all of us reside in buildings with such memorable exteriors. 
Some of us reside in dorms, that when we must go around the semi­nar room and list our name, dorm and major, we endure blank stares. 
Pangborn? That's a dorm? 

Yes, that awkwardly named build­ing does in fact exist in what many students presume to be a void between Fisher's green "F" and the Rock. 
While fall foliage may contribute to a blending in with the landscape, Pangborn's short stature and boxy, prison-like appearance may also play a part to the myth of its non­existence. 
Presumably to make up for the lack of aesthetic beauty, however, twin lions grace the entryway to this fine piece of architecture -lions which, I must admit, have proved quite amusing upon returning many a weekend night when friends test them out for a ride. 
I also think we may be the only dorm to have metallic crucifixes nailed into every one of our closets ­quite a unique and special feature to treasure. 
Add to this the thrashing force of the South Quad wind tunnel each winter and the 15-minute walk to the library, and the merits of this fine place seem unlimited. 
If the physical description wasn't enough to convince you of Pangborn's grace, the hall's prestigious history certainly will. Built in 1955 and dedi­cated to the generous Pangborn brothers -who inspired the names of my roommate's fish, John and Tom (although John has sadly passed)­Pangborn Hall became a women's dorm in the early 1990s. 
The Violence of Pangborn were· con­stantly at war with the Fishermen, we're told, and used to conveniently roll kegs across the putting green into the basement windows. 
Norm from Cheers is often hailed as our greatest alum -even though Wikipedia tells me he was kicked out of the University for earning a 0.0 G.P.A. 
Not every dorm has an issue with misspelling every word that begins with an "F", or can refer to itself with as endearing of a name as "The Pang." 
If you still remain unimpressed, all domers must listen to the irrefutable Father Hesburgh. 
"I know I speak for generations of Notre Dame students in expressing the University's gratitude to Thomas Pangborn and John Pangborn for their magnificent gift," he said at the dorm's dedication. 
You certainly speak for me, Father Ted. The gift was phabulous. 
Contact Katie McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, November 16, 2006 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO IS MORE INTIMIDATING, NDSP OR SBPD? 
Angie Maxey  Blair Santaspirt  Christian Galvan  Megan Bowers  Jennifer Tran  Tim Falvey·  
junior  freshman  sophomore  junior  sophomore  senior  
Welsh Family  Lewis  Keenan  Breen Philips  Walsh  Dillon  
"SBPD because  ''I'm not scared  "NDSP  -I can ,t  "NDSP because  "/ don't know  "NDSP because  
I don't find  ofanyone.,,  outrun those  they have  because rve  that Segway  

Segways intimidating.,, 


Thai zoo hopes panda porn inspires mating 
BANGKOK -A Thai zoo will show its star resi­dents, a pair of young giant pandas, the equiva­lent of animal porn videos to teach the famously sex­ually-inactive animals how to mate, an official said Tuesday. 
"We have to encourage them to mate, and the videos will show mating positions of male pandas and female pandas," said Kannika Nimtragol, a vet­erinarian at the Chiang Chuang and his five-year­old partner Lin Hui, who arrived at the zoo in 2003 on a 10-year loan from China, were becoming "like a brother and a sis­ter" as they lived together, Kannika said. 
Mai  zoo  in  northern  
Thailand.  
Six-year-old  Chuang  

Town turns 'finders keep­ers' on its head 
NEENAH, Wis.-A sani­tation worker who found $1,900 attached to a dis­carded desk at a city scrap heap says he deserves the money -but the city won't give it up. 
"It's been very hard on me for being honest and then being told that 
Segways. ,, Segways.,, never been in they drive is 
because you're honest we're going to pat you on the back and take your money," David Voight said. 
Voight, 52, found the cash in July, in envelopes attached by magnets to the underside of the metal desk at a junk drop-off site. Voight turned the money over to police and waited for someone to daim it within 90 days. 
Now that the 90 days are up and no one claimed the money, city officials have been wrangling over what to do with it. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
LIJ :::1: 
!ci 
LIJ 
3: 
.... 
<
(.) 0 


HIGH 42 HIGH 36 HIGH 42 HIGH 45
...I LOW 32 LOW 32 LOW 30 LOW 32 
trouble.,, freaking scary.,, 
IN BRIEF 

The four Saint Mary's facul­ty/student projects awarded SISTAR grants in the summer of 2006 will give a recap of their scholarly work tonight at 7 in Vander Vennet Theatre. 
As part of the University's celebration of International Education Week, a Fairly­Traded Gifts Event will run today from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in LaFortune Student Center's Dooley Room. It features hand­crafts, available for purchase, from developing countries and offers an opportunity to learn more about Fair Trade prac­tices and the artisans who pro­duce these goods. 
Diego Abente Brun, former senator of Paraguay and Kellogg Institute Visiting Fellow, will give the lecture "Between a Rock and a Hard Place: Dilemmas of Democracy in a Small South American Country" today at 
4:15 p.m. in C-103 Hesburgh Center. 
Saint Mary's alumna Kathryn Steinlage will be in the Student Center Atrium today from 5 p.m. to 7 to inform stu­dents abo-ut Alliance for Catholic Education Program. 
The Saint Cecilia Sing will take place Sunday from 2 p.m. to 3 in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto. A gathering cele­brating the music of the Church's Liturgical Year will be led by the Saint Mary's College Liturgical Choir, Hand Bell Choir and Movement Ministers. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 42 HIGH 45 LOW 28 LOW 25 
Atlanta 48 I 36 Boston 63 I 55 Chicago 42 I 31 Denver 66 I 28 Houston 66 I 43 Los Angeles 80 I 54 Minneapolis 40 I 25 New York 66 I 57 Philadelphia 70 I 53 Phoenix 82 I 51 Seattle 49 I 41 St. Louis 40 I 33 Tampa 73 I 53 Washington 68 I 45 
Thursday, November 16, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Laws 
continued from page 1 
in court, don't blow it off," he said. 'That would be the single worst thing you could do. Stand before the judge and present your case." 
The next part of the presenta­tion centered on South Bend's disorderly housing ordinance ­a law that has been around since 
the early 1990s, said law student Chris Pearsall, but was amended in the summer of 2005 to include activities that "are directed more toward students than the general public." 
Conducts pro­hibited by the ordinance include well-known drinking viola­tions, but Pearsall also identified lesser-known 
"I know there's 
$2,500.been some The fine stands, pressure in the Pearsall said, 
unless the landlord

dorms to crack 
begins eviction pro­down in ceedings within 30 disorientation days and "diligently pursues eviction
events, and they're 
proceedings tomoving completion." 
off-campus." While students would still have the opportunity to
Chris Pearsall 
defend themselves 
law student 
in court at that 

activities like gambling, disorder­ly conduct and criminal reckless­ness -which, Pearsall said, refers primarily to hazing activi­ties. 
"I know there's been some pressure in the dorms to crack down in disorientation events, and they're moving off-campus," he said. "You'd not only face very serious repercussions at Notre Dame, but you could be cited by the city." 
The ordinance also includes a rule about the sale of alcohol without a license -meaning, Pearsall said, keg parties charg­ing guests $1 per cup. 
Should students violate the ordinance, the city sends a notice to abate to both the landlord and the residents, which includes a fme that can range from $250 to 
point, Pearsall said, 

he reminded stu­dents that just one violation could merit that notice to abate -which could result in eviction. 
"It's a heavy hammer that has to be appointed judiciously," he said. "Don't engage in prohibited activity." 
Law student Toni Mardirossian discussed the general principles for dealing with law enforce­ment, should officials arrive at an off-campus residence. 
"The police have a tremendous amount of discretion," she said. "They have the option to give you a warning and ask you to shut the party down. They could also issue you a ticket. Or they could slap handcuffs on you and arrest you." 
Mardirossian emphasized courteousness, suggesting stu­dents ask police to "come back in 30 minutes" to prove they will put an end to a gathering. 
A policeman can enter if he sees a crime being committed, Mardirossian said, and once inside, he has the right to cite a resident for anything in plain view. 
"He can't search your under­wear drawer for marijuana," she said. "But if you have an under­age person drinking or a bong sitting in the corner, you're in trouble." 
If arrested, Mardirossian said, a student also has the right to remain silent -even if a police­man hasn't yet read aloud the Miranda rights. 
"But the best way to avoid criminal penalty," she said, "is to avoid them coming to your door in the first place." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 
Loyal 
continued from page 1 

the single most important fac­tor that continues sexual assault," Mahmood said. "We don't know what to say, we don't have the words, and we don:_t know what's appropri­ate. 
Ryan echoed Mahmood's statement and said a poor definition of sexual violence has hindered conversation. 
"As long as we continue to confuse sexual activity with sexual violence we will contin­ue to ask the wrong questions on how to stop it," she said. 
To change that, Bradford said, more awareness is nec­essary. 
"Education is a huge part of changing the culture we live in," she said. 
Ryan agreed, and said "there is a need to make basic information available to our students." 
For Weisbecker, the answer to reducing sexual violence could lie in students "flnd[ing] some valuable social activities besides drinking," since alco­hol is associated with an over­whelming majority of sexual violence cases. 
Weisbecker also addressed opposition voiced for "Loyal Daughters," including the crit­icism that her play dealt with issues of sex and sexuality in a "morally neutral" manner. 
She said the goal of the play was not to explain Catholic teaching to audiences or preach right from wrong but rather to give "a glimpse of what's really going on [so they can] make [their] own deci­sions." 
And in the field of sexual violence, Bradford said, debates on "neutral" morals are irrelevant. 
"[Morals] don't exist because they have been taken away," she said. "[Sexual vio­lence] is not a moral issue at all." 
Through "Loyal Daughters," Weisbecker gave "a portrait of the reality of campus life," Mahmood said. 
"She was giving voices to other people," she said. 
Weisbecker encouraged audience members to attend a student-hosted fundraiser that follows tonight's final per­formance at 9:30 p.m. at the Beiger Mansion. Proceeds from the fundraiser will go to S-0-S and the YWCA of St. Joseph County. 
Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 

The OFFICE OF STUDENT AFFAIRS and the GRADUATE SCHOOL wish to say THANK YOU to the over 1,600 law, MBA, and graduate students who completed the post-baccalaureate survey. 
Sixty lottery winners were chosen from all participants, including: 
L4ptop Computers  $100 gift catc.is to the DPAC  $50 ND Bookstote gift catc.is  
Vaibhav Khanna  Yvonne Mikuljan  Brandon Rich  
Rosa Jimenez,  Ashley Frankart  Francisco Bosch  
Rebecca Schwantes  Luke Kuipers  Zhi Xu  
Huang Nguyen  Anna Rafalski  Stephen D'elia  
Angel Cortes  Gerard Olinger  Thomas Bushlack  
Alexa Puscas  Erin Hurley  Joseph Pangrac  
Nicholas Lynchard  Becky Miller  Nicole Lunn  
Kelli Lanski  Naomi Ekas  Sheryn Alexander  
Stephen Scannell  Scott Moringiello  LaReine-Marie Mosely  
Brian 1. Miller  Gerald Linn  Patricia Mitchell  
IPODs  $50 gift catc.is to Papa Vi no's  Meal passes fot a week to eithet  
Sarah Spengeman Ji Park Joshua Bandoch Eric Covey Kevin Granger Chad Prososki Zhiqing Zhu Thomas Klepach Shannon Pelini Ryan Kreager  Anthony Bellino Emily Gustafson Jude Siegfried Yang Zhao Hsiao-Shih Lee Brigid Brown Logan Axon Yumiko Watanabe Craig Powers Justin Bowes  c:lining hall Kenneth Garcia David Moore Charles Strauss David Cieslak Bradley Gregory Jonathan Rager Stacey Scott Emeka Ngwoke David Costello  
All winners were notified directly by e-mail.  Ritesh Sharma  


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 16, 2006 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
of the CLC. 
The issue of whether stu­dents should be required to take a test checking their knowledge of the University Academic Honor Code was one of the topics discussed at last week's Faculty Senate meeting, said representative Philippe Collon. The reason for a yearly test stems from new honor code situations that can arise -ones students should be aware of, he said. 
Faculty representatives also discussed classroom safety in light of recent violent attacks in schools around the country. 
"What are the responses fac­ulty should take if situations arise in classrooms?" Collon asked. 
Pasquerilla East senator Emily Cooperstein spoke on behalf of the Community Relations committee about the Northeast Neighborhood Council meeting she attended Monday night. At the meeting, one South Bend resident said she has seen "vast improve­ments" in students' behavior and noise levels on football weekends in the past few weeks, especially in the Washington Street area, Cooperstein said. 

"There are some who have really expressed thanks and congratulations for helping improve community relations already," she said. 
Another woman said South Bend residents are open to enter into a relationship with students, but said students have to take the first step, Cooperstein said. 
A resolution regarding clocks in classrooms should be pre­sented to the Senate soon, Academic Affairs chair Jim Grace said. He also informed the group that if students picked classes on the first day of registration this year, they would have a registration time on the second day next semes­ter, and vice versa. 
Social Concerns chair Sheena Plamoottil said representatives from Amnesty International will be coming to speak to stu­dents at their hall councils in the coming weeks. Alliance for Catholic Education representa­tives will also be coming around to hall councils with a new outreach program for undergraduates, Hesidence Life chair Pat Knapp said. 
The Multicultural Affairs committee has developed a group that will look at minority faculty retention and recruit­ment, said chair Destinee DeLemos. University Affairs chair Aly Baumgartner asked senators to e-mail her sugges­tions for topics for the Catholic Think Tank lecture series, a set of discussions that bring promi­nent Catholics to Notre Dame. 
In other Senate news: 
+ 
Student body president Lizzi Shappell asked senators to volunteer to attend a focus group about changes to Stepan Center. 

+ 
Shappell announced a University-wide Mass will be held in the Sacred Heart Basilica for Caitlin Brann Dec. 4 at 5:15 p.m. Brann, a senior at Notre Dame, died in a car crash Friday morning. 


Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Goods 

continued from page 1 
will "educate people about the mission of Ten Thousand Villages and the overarching concept of fair trade." 
The organization, which began in 1946, now operates at about 100 retail outlets throughout the U.S., including six stores in Indiana. One of the world's largest fair trade organizations, it has built rela­tionships with more than 100 artisan groups and more than 30 countries in Africa, the Middle East, Asia and Central and South America. 
"[We hope that students] will understand a little better the cultural and economic contexts under which the artisans pro­duce these handcrafts," Peterson-Miller said. 
Often artisans from these developing countries are not paid enough to plan for their future. Fair Trade, according to the Ten Thousand Villages' Web site, can help artisans "see hope for the future, earn digni­ty and respect in their commu­nity and experience joy in being able to provide for their fami­lies." 
Money from the campus mar­kets' sales goes to Ten Thousand Villages, which returns as much of the income as possible to the artisans. 
Ten Thousand Villages is part of a worldwide organization called the International Fair Trade Association, which sup­ports fair trade as "an alternate approach to conventional inter­national trade," reads the Ten Thousand Villages Web site. 
The organization aims to help excluded and disadvan­taged producers though "pro­viding better trading condi­tions, by raising awareness and by campaigning," Peterson­Miller said. 
"Of course it's wonderful to (just] look around, see what these handcrafts look like, maybe purchase something for a Christmas gift," Peterson­Miller said. "[But] as part of International Education Week [we hope the shops] introduce these concepts [of Fair Trade], goods, artisans and cultures to the University campus." 
Contact Jennifer Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

is that we were ahead of the curve," he said. "We started the process before normal, which gave us time to deliberate." 
The only way to change the law, Nussbaum said, is through the legislative process. 
"Electing representatives that will change the laws is the best way to make a differem:e," he said. 
Kernan is a member of the Indiana Assessment Team of the American Bar Association's Death Penalty Moratorium Implementation Project. This group is currently evaluating the need for a moratorium on the death penalty in Indiana. 
The lecture concluded with a question and answer session, during which Kernan addressed how the Catholic faith affected his decisions. 
"It is part of who we are. It is impossible not to in1pact us," he said. "Each man had to look at his own soul." 
But, Catholicism wasn't the only factor in his decision-mak­ing, Kernan said. 
"It is not enough just to say your Catholic faith makes the death penalty wrong," he said. "You need to find a way to come together with a good sense and a good will." 
Kernan encouraged students to continue their activism if they want to make a difference. 
"Things like this can make the views of America known," he said. "Just be thoughtful in all you do." 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Kernan 
continued from page 1 
Father Edward Malloy, as well as other respected advisors. 
"I needed to talk to people I had the utmost respect for to get their take on the issue," he said. 
Exactly one week before Williams' execution was sched­uled, Kernan granted him clemency in exchange for a life sentence without parole. 
His reasons included propor­tionality of the crime, doubt about Williams' role and person­al competence. 
With an IQ of 78, Williams tested just three points above the mentally ill IQ level of 75. The execution of the mentally ill is illegal. 
Kernan said he was taught to recognize the death penalty as appropriate in certain circum­stances. 
"Through the process, I per­sonally went through an analysis of my views on the death penal­ty," he said. "I never gave it much thought before because it didn't affect me." 

As Kernan reevaluated his views on the death penalty, he said one of his greatest advan­tages in the process was his "non-lawyer" status. 
"My views were less rigid," he said. "The issue had more lati­tude because we were all able to form our own opinions." 
The experience, he said, influ­enced the rest of his time as gov­ernor. 
"It is a sobering experience to make a decision on another per­son's life. Sometimes, it is just more difficult to be on the field than in the stands." 
Kernan granted the second case of clemency for Michael Daniels, who -with an IQ of 77 -lacked competency and rea­sonable doubt of his participa­tion in the crime. In Daniels' case, however, inadequate coun­sel was the biggest factor in his prior death sentence. 
"There are always two sides to every story," Kernan said. "Daniels' difficult childhood made a difference in what he perceived as right and wrong. Childhood does matter and it was a great concern." 
Kernan also addressed the 
Cq§tl~. Rqi.Jil*.Ap~.rtm~.Ol§? 18011 CI~:Weland.figad. Sg.~tQ Eil;il·~·~ ItJQ4ii:ftil·lii O~~eu.ing Gu. 
political perspective behind the death penalty. 
"There is less fervor for the death penalty that there was five or 10 years ago," Kernan said. "Now people have focused their attention on it." 
Kernan's clemency decisions came at a critical point in his term as governor. With less than four months prior to the elec­tion, Kernan commuted Daniels' sentence. 
"Make no mistake," he said, "there was election pressure from the political side about granting clemency that people said was suicidal. The decision was crucial because the odds of it not being well received were so high. 
"I made the decision for me, not the election." 
Kernan praised Indiana for some of the recent reforms to make trials more fair and to avoid the death penalty. Rule 24, for example, created standards for competency of counsel and experience in capital cases. 
"Indiana is blessed with great jurists," he said. "I think it is because jurors are appointed, not elected." 
Kernan's view on the death penalty hasn't changed com­pletely, he said, even after his direct experiences. He recalled a personal experience that affirmed his partial support of the death penalty. 
Kernan's "worst day as mayor" of South Bend occurred on Aug. 25, 1990, when a triple homicide in a local drugstore led him to believe those guilty of the crime "deserved to die." 
"I still find myself supporting the death penalty under extreme circumstances," he said. 
"I am more lukewarm, howev­er, that I was before I went through this process. I am grate­ful to have gone through it." 
After Kernan spoke, his gener­al counsel and close friend Dick Nussbaum gave input on his experiences. 
"Graduating from Notre Dame helped me form my opinions on the death penalty," he said. "We were the first people to grant clemency in years. Others will now follow our example." 
Nussbaum praised Kernan's entire team in the success of their decisions. 
"What makes me most proud 
574-272~8110 574~272-8114.~. FAX V\ffi)I'!~.C.p1iJ::,..cqro. 
t: Specials! 
() lndoor/OutdoaP*YEiiitnL Basketball Free Tanning I 
!II () Heated Pool ~. 
·::::::: 

() Relaxing Jacuzzi GatedComm·· 


ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, November 16, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WJRI SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bush: U.S. still trustworthy ally 
SINGAPORE -President Bush is seeking to reassure nervous Asian allies that the United States will remain a reliable partner in liber­alizing trade, confronting North Korea's nuclear threat and fighting terrorism after an election upheaval back home. 
In Bush's first overseas trip since Republicans lost the House and Senate, world leaders are looking for any sign of change since the election repudiation of his Iraq poli­cy. 
In an early embarrassment for Bush, the House failed to approve normalized trade relations with Vietnam -a move Bush want­ed completed this week. Instead, Congress probably will consider it in December. 
Bush's eight-day journey takes him to Singapore, Vietnam and Indonesia. A week later, he will be in Europe for a summit of NATO leaders. The two trips will take him away from Washington at a crucial time when the postelection, lame-duck Congress is dealing with issues the White House has deemed vital. 
Earthquake prompts tsunami warning 
TOKYO -Thousands of people living along northern Japan's Pacific coast fled to higher ground Wednesday after a powerful under­sea earthquake prompted tsunami warnings as far away as Alaska. 
The 8.1-magnitude quake struck an area claimed by both Russia and Japan, but the waves did not swell higher than 23 inches. There were no immediate reports of casual­ties or damage. 
Japan's meteorological agency withdrew its tsunami warning after about three hours. Tsunami warnings posted for Russia and coastal areas of Alaska also were canceled. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
White House resubmits nominees 
WASHINGTON -The Bush administration, trying to push through judicial nominations before Republicans lose control of the Senate, on Wednesday resubmitted the names of six nominees who Democrats say are too conser­vative for the federal bench. 
Five of the nominees in question were the subject of an angry exchange in August when Democrats charged that their selection was a sop to the president's conservative base. 
The White House submitted six names Wednesday: Terrence Boyle of North Carolina and William James Haynes II of Virginia to the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond, Va.; Michael Brunson Wallace of Mississippi to the 5th Circuit in New Orleans; Peter Keisler to the D.C. Circuit; and William Gerry Myers III and Norman Randy Smith, both of Idaho, for the 9th Circuit in San Francisco. 
Pelosi announces support for Murtha 
WASHINGTON -House Speaker-to-be Nancy Pelosi faces a major leadership test Thursday, barely a week into her new role, as Democrats vote on her choice for majority leader. She's supporting a lawmaker once caught up in a bribery scandal and known more recently for trading votes for pork proj­ect.<>. 
Pelosi's prestige is on the line after endors­ing longtime ally John Murtha of Pennsylvania to be the No. 2 Democrat in place of her long­time rival Steny Hoyer of Maryland. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Homicide suspected in death of four 
ELKHART -Investigators had few answers Wednesday into how or why four young chil­dren were killed in the basement of their home a night earlier, but said there was no reason for others in the community to be concerned for their safety. 
"There's no one out and about we think the community should be concerned about," police Capt. Steven Mock said. 
No arrests were immediately made, but the deaths of the two girls and two boys were ruled homicides. Autopsies on Wednesday determined the children died of asphyxia, but police said they did not know exactly how they were killed. 
Withdrawal timetable criticized 
U.S. commander rejects Democrats' argument, predicts surge in violence 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The top U.S. commander in the Middle East warned Congress Wednesday against setting a timetable for withdrawing U.S. troops from Iraq, rejecting the arguments of resur­gent Democrats who are pressing President Bush to start pulling out. 
Gen. John Abizaid instead urged quick action to strengthen Iraq's gov­ernment, predicting that the vicious sectarian vio­lence in Baghdad would surge out of control within four to six months unless immediate steps were taken. 
"Our troop posture needs to stay where it is," and the use of military adviser teams embedded with Iraqi army and police forces needs to be expanded, Abizaid told the Senate Armed Services Committee. It was the first hearing on Iraq policy since last week's elections gave Democrats control of both houses of Congress starting in January. 
The voting last week has been widely interpreted as a public repudiation of Bush's policies on the war, which has left more than 2,850 U.S. troops dead and more than 20,000 others wounded. said she saw no evidence would be on sectarian vio­next chairman of the com­
Democrats have coa­that the Iraqi government lence if the U.S. began a mittee, said the adminis­lesced around the idea of was ready to make hard troop withdrawal in four tration must tell Iraq that starting to remove decisions, including taking to six months, as proposed U.S. troops will begin American troops in the firm action to disarm or by some Democrats, leaving in the next half next few months, and neutralize sectarian mili­Abizaid replied, "I believe year. increasing numbers of tias. it would increase." It also "We cannot save the Republicans have been "The brutal fact is, it is would undermine U.S. Iraqis from themselves. openly critical of the war. not happening," she said. efforts to increase Iraqis' The only way for Iraqi The day after the election, Even so, Abizaid said it confidence that their own leaders to squarely face Bush expressed an open­was too soon to give up on government is capable of that reality is for ness to considering fresh the Iraqis or to announce assuring their security, he President Bush to tell ideas on Iraq and a timetable for starting a suggested. them that the United announced the departure U.S. troop withdrawal. Pressed by Sen. Jack States will begin a phased of Defense Secretary Sen. John Warner, R­Reed, D-R.I., on how much redeployment of our Donald H. Rumsfeld. Va., chairman of the time the U.S. and Iraqi forces within four to six 
"Hope is not a strategy," panel, said after the hear­governments have to months," said Levin, of Sen. Hillary Clinton, D­ing that he planned to reduce the violence in Michigan. 
N. Y., a prospective 2008 work with Democrats to Baghdad before it spirals While the hearing put a presidential candidate, produce by January a beyond control, Abizaid spotlight on Democrats' said at Wednesday's hear­bipartisan recommenda­said, "Four to six view that the administra­ing. Citing the Bush tion to the president on a months." tion's Iraq policy is bro­administration's repeated way ahead in Iraq. At the same time, Carl ken, it produced no new claims of progress, Clinton Asked what the effect Levin, the Democratic proposals for fiXing it. 

IRAQ 

Kidnappers release 70 captives 
abductions -was surprising in a country The mass abduction took place in
Associated Press 

where hundreds of Iraqis have been kid­broad daylight when gunmen disguised 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -Kidnappers napped, murdered and dumped in streets in the blue camouflage uniforms of police released about 70 people snatched in a or rivers each month. In two recent mass commandos raided the Higher Education mass abduction by suspected Shiite militi­kidnappings, both of about 50 people, the Ministry in Karradah, a primarily Shiite amen who answer to a key backer of the victims were never heard of again. area of downtown Baghdad, handcuffed prime minister -a sign the militants It was unclear how many Iraqis their victims and took them away in went too far and Iraq's leader may be remained captive from Tuesday's assault. about 20 pickup trucks. yielding to intense U.S. pressure to crack Government ministries have given wildly The assault was widely believed to down on sectarian violence. varying figures on the number of people have been the work of the Mahdi Army, 
But Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki seized, with reports ranging from a high the heavily armed militia of anti­dearly has more. work to do. Iraqi police, of about 150 to a low of 40 to 50. American Shiite cleric Muqtada al-Sadr, hospital and morgue officials reported "We have information about the kid­and it raised questions about al-Maliki's 105 new violent deaths Wednesday; 54 of nappers and where the rest of the commitment to wipe out the Shiite mili­the victims were tortured and shot, their hostages are being held. Work is going tias of his prime political backers: the bodies dumped in Baghdad. well to release them," Higher Education Supreme Council for the Islamic 
The quick release of many of the cap­Minister Abed Theyab told Al-Arabiya tel­Revolution in Iraq and al-Sadr's Sadrist tives -less than 24 hours after the evision. Movement. 
page 6 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, November 16, 2006 
Democrats evaluate environtnent 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The Democrats who will steer envi­ronment issues in the new Congress are polar opposites of their Republican predecessors, but changing environmental pol­icy is like turning around an air­craft carrier -it's very slow. 
Sen. Barbara Boxer, a liberal California Democrat and one of the biggest environmental advo­cates on Capitol Hill, was named Tuesday to chair the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. She replaces Oklahoma Republican James Inhofe, who says global warming is a hoax and wanted to abolish the Environmental Protection Agency established by President Richard Nixon. 
On the House side, the approach to endangered species and opening public lands to pri­vate development will do an about-face with Rep. Nick Rahall, D-W.Va., expected to take over the House Resources Committee. He would replace GOP Rep. Richard Pombo, a California rancher, defeated for re-election last week after envi­ronmentalists spent nearly $2 million against him. 
"Our long national nightmare is close to being over," said Philip Clapp, president of the National Environmental Trust, paraphrasing Gerald Ford on assuming the presidency after Nixon's resignation over Watergate. 
Democrats will focus on cut­ting pollution blamed for global warming, accelerating toxic waste cleanups, reversing Bush administration tax and regulato­ry breaks for energy producers and switching the government's course back to strict protections for endangered species. 
Their environmental allies are back on offense. "We've been forced to play defense most of the past six years," said Gene Karpinski, president of the League of Conservation Voters. 

Energy companies will likely be put on the defensive. Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif'., the pre­sumed next speaker of the House, has already promised to repeal oil industry subsidies. 
Rep. John Dingell, D-Mich., the likely next chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, plans to investigate Republicans' oil subsidies included in the energy bill Bush signed into law last year. Dingell said he also was interested in revisiting Vice President Dick Cheney's secretive energy task force. 
Environmentalists say any global warming policy must be accompanied by higher fuel economy standards for cars and light trucks. On that issue, they worry that Dingell, who repre­sents thousands of auto workers and is a strong ally of the auto industry, could stand in the way. 
Dingell has opposed raising those standards because of con­cerns that jobs could be lost and automakers might suffer even more than they are now eco­nomically. 

Among Boxer's first moves will be a bill to curb greenhouse gases, modeled after her home state's approach which seeks to lower emissions to 1990 levels by 2020. 
"Some of the practical solu­tions are in the California approach" of Hepublican Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, she said. 
Already, John McCain of Arizona and other Republican senators have proposed bills or expressed support for mandato­ry caps on the U.S. fossil fuel­burning emissions of carbon dioxide. 
Even some Republicans say that President Bush might even­tually agree to address global warming by imposing a nation­wide cap on greenhouse gases. A system for companies to swap the rights to pollute would be established under the cap. 
That would require a second 180-degree reversal of his stance on global warming. He entered office in 2001 pledging to regulate industrial carbon dioxide emissions but came out against regulation shortly after­ward. To date, Bush has favored voluntary strategies and more research and development. 
Simpson book causes anger, guilt, suspicion 
Publisher advertises release as confession 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -O.J. Simpson created an uproar Wednesday with plans for a TV interview and book titled "If I Did It" ­an account the publisher pro­nounced "his confession" and media executives condemned as revolting and exploitive. 
Fox, which plans to air an interview with Simpson Nov. 27 and 29, said Simpson describes how he would have committed the 1994 slayings of his ex-wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend Honald Goldman, "if he were the one responsible." 
Denise Brown, sister of Simpson's slain ex-wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, lashed out at publisher Judith Regan of ReganBooks for "promoting the wrongdoing of criminals" and commercializing abuse. The book goes on sale Nov. 30. 
She added: "It's unfortunate that Simpson has decided to awaken a nightmare that we have painfully endured and worked so hard to move beyond." 
Regan refused to say what Simpson is being paid for the book but said he came to her with the idea. 
"This is an historic case, and I consider this his confession," Regan told The Associated Press. 
Simpson was acquitted in 1995 of murder after a trial that became an instant cultur­al llashpoint and a source of racial tension. The former football star was later found liable for the deaths in a real killers. 
Simpson has failed to pay the $33.5 million judgment against him in the civil case. His NFL pension and his Florida home cannot legally be seized. He and the families of the victims have wrangled over the money in court for years. 
The victim's families could go after the proceeds from the book's sales to pay off the judgment. But one legal ana­lyst said there are ways to get around that requirement ­like having proceeds not go directly to Simpson. 
"Clever lawyering can get you a long way," said Laurie Levenson, a Loyola University law school professor and for­mer federal prosecutor who has followed the case closely. 
Levenson noted that the criminal justice system's pro­tection against double jeop­ardy means Simpson's book, explosive as it may be, should not expose him to any new legal danger. She added that Simpson could create an extra layer of insulation from any legal worries by presenting the story hypothetically. 
"He can write pretty much whatever he wants," Levenson said. "Unless he's confessing to killing somebody else, he can probably do this with impuni­ty." 
Simpson did not return numerous calls for comment. Simpson's own attorney Yale Galanter said he did not know about the book or the inter­view until this week. 
"The book was not done 
It's powerful because it's true. 
Loyal Daughters 
Aplay written from interviews of)) students and faculty on sexuality and sexual assault at Notre Dame 
Nov.l3-16 @7:30 
Written/Produced by Emily Weisbecker Directed by Madison Liddy 
Call DPAC at 574~631 w2800 to reserve free tickets. Sponsored by the Gender Studies Program with help from UROP 
wrongful-death suit filed by through our office," Galanter the Goldman family. In the said. "I did not have anything years since, he has been to do with the negotiations of mocked relentlessly by late­the book. This was strictly night comedians, particularly done between O.J. and oth­for his vow to hunt down the ers." 

Angel ]\)ails Spa 

181$. tl;.'l.?~~~vett"e 
Sotttk a; ::J)\j 46631 
(574) ~f'/1.;499n:~.. 

Limited time offers fol' students: 10% off with" Full Sel'vice. 
• 
Polisfl-n-Sealer Wax Applied 

• 
?-Step Underbody


BEST 

Protectant 
52694 State Road 033 

• Spot-Free South Bend. Indiana 46637
WASH

I Rinse 
·--------------------------------~ 



Thursday, November 16, 2006 

r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

US Airways bids on Delta Air 
Merger could initiate chain reaction, potentially industry consolidation 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA -US Airways made a hostile $8 billion bid for Delta Air Lines on Wednesday, ignoring Delta's repeated statements that it isn't interested in a merger. The move could start a stampede of competing bids in a long-predicted industry consolidation. 
Analysts said United 
Airlines' parent company 
may make its own move to 
acquire Delta, and takeover 
bids for Northwest Airlines, 
which like Delta is being 
reorganized in bankruptcy 
court, can't be ruled out. 
They also questioned 
whether US Airways could 
complete its plan to create 
the nation's largest carrier, 
even after a planned 1 0 
percent cut in capacity, on 
the compacted timeline it is 
seeking. 

"My main question mark 
is if the politicians and reg­
ulators would allow it to 
happen, because if it did it 
would probably set off a 
trend for industry consoli­
dation," Ray Neidl, an air­
line analyst with Calyon 
Securities in New York, said 
of a Delta-US Airways com­
bination. 

It also could lead to high­
er ticket prices for passen­
gers, industry experts said. 
"With a capacity reduction 
going nowhere but up," said Airways operate between West merger. This will only Doug Parker, chief execu­
Robert W. Mann, a Port Boston, New York and increase it fourfold," he tive of Tempe, Ariz.-based 
Washington, N.Y.-based air­Washington. US Airways said. US Airways, said in an 
line consultant. has not decided where the As it stands now, Delta's interview he believes Delta's 
Delta said its goal remains combined company would existing common shares are creditors ultimately will see to be a stand-alone compa­be based. likely to end up worthless that his offer is fair. "The ny when it emerges from The US Airways offer when it exits bankruptcy. In [bankruptcy] process is bankruptcy and that it had comes as it and America most bankruptcy cases, designed so that the credi­the backing of its creditors West are still integrating debtholders end up with tors get the highest possible committee when it declined their operations after their new shares of the company. value for their clients," he earlier discussions with US combination last year. To That's where the US said. Airways. It has yet to file its date, only 57 percent of Airways offer comes in: It is Parker said he would own plan of reorganization, America West planes have proposing to pay Delta's anticipate flying with 10 but has the exclusive right been painted over with US unsecured creditors $4 bil­percent fewer planes, but to do so until Feb. 15. Airways' logos, a lion in cash and 78.5 million "the plan is not predicated 
If the deal is completed, spokesman said. shares of US Airways stock on any job cuts" for the 
the combined airline would The deal also comes with after Delta emerges from 85,000 employees at the 
operate under the Delta a host of labor-related com­bankruptcy. two companies. 
name and serve more than plications, according to avi­Shares of US Airways The combination would 
350 destinations across five ation consultant Robert W. Group Inc. rose $8.57, or create a company with 
continents. The combined Mann. "There will be a 16.83 percent, to $59.50 about $28 billion in annual 
company would divest cer­huge seniority integration Wednesday on the New revenue, leapfrogging it 
tain assets, including one of problem that will result. It's York Stock Exchange. Delta past the current No. 1 U.S. 
the two hourly shuttle serv­already problematic after Air Lines Inc. shares are carrier, AMR Corp.'s 
ices that Delta and US the US Airways-America traded over the counter. American Airlines. 

EnglishAl-Jazeera channel launches 
Associated Press in the Middle East and in no one in America is capable of see­
Washington. It wore that reputation ing it," said Will Stebbins, the net­
NEW YORK -Al-Jazeera's as a badge of honor Wednesday, work's Washington bureau chief. "If 
English-language channel began showing a film clip of outgoing U.S. I were an American, I would be 
operation on Wednesday, promising Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld frustrated having cable systems 
a fresh perspective on international referring to an Al-Jazeera report as decide for me." 
news, but virtually no American tel­"vicious, inaccurate and inexcus­Unlike other news networks, Al­
evision viewers could see it. able." Jazeera English is striving to offer 
Broadcasting from the station's Despite extra months for negotiat­international news from multiple 
headquarters in Doha, Qatar, Al­ing because a planned spring launch perspectives, free of any geographic 
Jazeera English led its 3 p.m. EST was scrapped, the network had only or cultural reference points, he said. 
newscast with a report from one small satellite system and two Al-Jazeera English hired more 
Kinshasa on the Congo elections, online services in the U.S. offering it than 500 staffers, luring journalists 
saying it was the only television net­Wednesday. The network was from American and British net­
work to land an interview with streamed for free on its Web site, works, including former CNN 
incumbent President Joseph Kabila. but it could sometimes be difficult to anchor Riz Khan and reporter Lucia 
The network is an offshoot of the reach and offered blurry pictures. Newman, the BBC's David Frost and 
10-year-old Arabic-language Al­"Eighty million people around the former ABC News correspondent 
Jazeera, which has angered leaders world want to see Al-Jazeera, but Dave Marash. 
page 8 The Observer + SCIENTIFIC NEWS Thursday, November 16, 2006 
Heart valves offer hope to repair future defects 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -Scientists for the first time have grown human heart valves using stem cells from the fluid that cushions babies in the womb -offer­ing a revolutionary approach that may be used to repair defective hearts in the future. 
The idea is to create these new valves in the lab while the pregnancy progresses and have them ready to implant in a baby with heart defects after it is born. 
The Swiss experiment follows recent successes at growing bladders and blood vessels and suggests that people may one day be able to grow their own replacement heart parts -in some cases, even before they're even born. 
It's one of several sci-fi tissue engi­neering advances that could lead to homegrown heart valves for infants and adults that are more durable and effective than artificial or cadaver valves. 
"This may open a whole new thera­py concept to the treatment of congen­ital heart defects," said Dr. Simon Hoerstrup, a University of Zurich sci­entist who led the work, which was presented Wednesday at an American Heart Association conference. 
Also at the meeting, Japanese researchers said they had grown new heart valves in rabbits using cells from the animals' own tissue. It's the first time replacement heart valves have been created in this manner, said lead author Dr. Kyoko Hayashida. 
"It's very promising," University of Chicago cardiologist Dr. Ziyad Hijazi said of the two studies. "I don't doubt" that it will be applied one day in humans, he said. 
One percent of all newborns, or more than 1 million babies born worldwide each year, have heart prob­lems. These kill more babies in the United States in the first year of life than any other birth defects, accord­ing to the National Institutes of Health. 
Heart valve defects can be detected during pregnancy with ultrasound tests at about 20 weeks of pregnancy. At least one-third of afllicted infants have problems that could be treated with replacement valves, Hoerstrup said. 
"It could be quite important if it turns out to work," said Dr. Robert Bonow, a Northwestern University heart valve specialist. 
Conventional procedures to fix faulty heart valves all have drawbacks. Artificial valves are prone to blood clots and patients must take anti-clot­ting drugs for life. Valves from human cadavers or animals can deteriorate, requiring repeated open-heart surger­ies to replace them, Hijazi said. That's especially true in children, because these valves don't grow along with the body. 
Valves made from the patient's own cells are living tissue and might be able to grow with the patient, said Hayashida, a scientist at the National Cardiovascular Center Hesearch Institute in Osaka. 
The Swiss procedure has another advantage: using cells the fetus sheds in amniotic fluid avoids controversy because it doesn't involve destroying embryos to get stem cells. 
"This is an ethical advantage," Hoerstrup said at the meeting. 
Stetn cells fight dogs' dystrophy 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Stem cell injections worked remarkably well at easing symptoms of muscular dystrophy in a group of golden retrievers, a result that experts call a sig­nificant step toward treating people. 
"It's a great breakthrough for all of us working on stem cells for muscular dystrophy," said researcher Johnny Huard of the University of Pittsburgh, who wasn't involved in the work. 
Sharon llesterlee, vice president of translational research at the Muscular Dystrophy Assoeiation, called the result one of the most exciting she's seen in her eight years with the organiza­tion. Her organization helped pay for the work. 
She stressed that it's not yet clear whether such a treat­ment would work in people, but said she had "cautious optimism" about it. 
Two dogs that were severe­ly disabled by the disease were able to walk faster and even jump after the treat­ments. 
The study was published online Wednesday by the journal Nature. It used stem cells taken from the aJTected dogs or other dogs, rather than from embryos. For human use, the idea of using such "adult" stem cells from humans would avoid the con­troversial method of destroy­ing human embryos to obtain stem cells. 
The Nature paper focuses on Duchenne muscular dys­trophy, a muscle-wasting genetic disorder that afl"ects only boys and occurs in about 1 in every 3,500 male births. It's the most severe and most common childhood form of muscular dystrophy and the best-known. In theory, the stem cell treatment might also help other muscle dys­trophies or even age-related muscle wasting, Hesterlee said. 
Boys with Duchenne dys­trophy have trouble walking as early as preschool, and nearly all of them lose their ability to walk between ages 7 and 12. Typically, they die in their 20s because of weak­ness in their heart and lung muscles. There is no known cure. 
The dog study was done by Giulio Cossu, director of the Stem Cell Research Institute at the San Haffaele Scientific Institute of Milan in Italy, with colleagues there and else­where. 
"We do not know whether this will work in patients," Cossu said in a telephone interview. lie said he hopes to start a small experiment in children in the next year or two. 
The scientists worked with golden retrievers that suffer a crippling form of dystrophy very much like the human one. Researchers studied the elfect of repeated injections into the bloodstream of a kind of stem cell extracted from blood vessel walls. 
The best results appeared when the cells were taken from healthy dogs. But Cossu said scientists should pursue the possibility of genetically manipulating a patient's own cells and using them instead. That way, patients wouldn't have to undergo lifelong treatment to avoid rejection of donated cells. 
In one of several experi­ments, three dogs that had not yet shown impairment in walking were injected five times, a month apart, with cells taken from other dogs. 
One dog completely avoided symptoms and continued to walk well even five months after both the injections and the anti-rejection therapy were stopped. 
A second dog also did well initially but died suddenly of a heart problem after just two months on the treatment. It's not clear whether the problem had anything to do with the treatment, or whether the initial good result would have continued, Cossu said. 
The third dog showed par­tial protection, being able to walk and even run with a limp, but then progressively lost walking ability within a few days after the anti-rejec­tion treatment was stopped. 
The researchers also treat­ed two dogs that were severe­ly impaired by the disease. Both gained the ability to move much faster and to jump, and one was even able to run, although neither could use the hind legs normally. 




e  er 17,  
entory  enter  
Kick*off  your  NO  football  weekend  with  the  South  Bend  
Symphony and  a "Salute to  the Irish" featuring  Guest Conductor  

and Clarinetist Carl Topilow of the Cleveland Pops. Enjoy your favorite fight songs and football movie tunes including the "Theme from Rudy", the "Notre Dame Fight Song" and many more. 
SouthBendSymphony.com or call 574.235.9190 

,.:nftQ"<-'l 
tXtl(it{~~NT 
tf~l!;~~H.f 
ARTS 

Thursday, November 16, 2006 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
CHINA 
Law-s ban large dogs, force scared ow-ners underground 
Associated Press 
BEIJING -Elaine Loke is shutting down her dog boutique and will spirit her golden retriev­ers Hippy and Bally out of Beijing to escape the city's sweeping anti-rabies campaign. 
Dog owners like Loke have been scrambling to hide their pets in the face of a new crack­down which allows only one dog per household and bans breeds taller than 14 inches. Fears have been fueled by graphic Internet pictures and witnesses who say police are beating to death strays and dogs that run afoul of regu­lations. 
"I can't believe this is happen­ing," said Loke, 33, who keeps the curtains in her first-floor apartment drawn to ward off prying neighbors and walks her dogs in an underground parking lot. "It's so stressful. In the morning, I hear dogs barking and people talking outside my home and I think the police are coming." 
The pressure is so bad that Loke is returning to her native Hong Kong and closing a busi­ness she has had for two years. 
In China, dogs have long been seen as a source of meat as much as companionship. But the current crackdown has touched a nerve in the rapidly moderniz­ing capital, especially among its 
THE POWER TO GET A 
PHONE THAT ROCKS 
•

FUSIC by LG® only from Sprint.
Phone and MP3 TM 
Bluetooth® technology
player in one. 
Built-in MP3 player with FM transmitter 
microSD external memory card 
Four accessory faceplates 
$99.99 
Plus get LG® portable speakers 
FREE 
reg. $58.65. While supplies last. 
Phone and free speaker offer requires activation of anew line ofservice on a$39.99 or higher service plan with atwo-year agreement on each phone. 
GET THIS CAMERA PHONE 
FREE, INSTANTLY! 
SCP-3100 by Sanyo6 Offer requires activation of a new line of service with a 2-year sub­


Sprinf > POWER UPW 
scriber agreement. Reg. $179.99. After $179.99 instant savings. 

REGISTER TO WIN $10,000* 
Visit your local Sprint Store to register for a chance to win the $10,000 Money Talks Grand Prize or one of 25 $1,000 First Prizes. 
Sweepstakes ends 12/10/06. No purchase necessary. See store for complete sweepstakes rules. 
•Registration available at Sprint Stores or Preferred Retailer locations only. 
T.ulll 
New, improved coverage in the South Bend area. 
Wireless service is only as good as the network it runs on. With new and improved coverage in South Bend, Niles, Granger and Laporte, now is a great time to experience the most complete, all-digital, wireless network in the nation reaching more than 250 million people. 
SPRINT STORES 
RETAILERS 

NILES Sprint Store Express Sprint Store Express SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKASOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA STORE HOURS Basic Communications
Martin's Plaza Grape Rd. at Indian Ridge Sunday ....••.. 12pm-5pm 
2010 S. 11th St.

52991 SR993 Ste. B University Park Mall
2035 South Bend Ave. South of the Mall Mon.-Fri.. •..... 10am-8pm 
269-35 7-0000 574-277-7727 across from McDonald's Sat.. ....•.....• 9am-7pm 
574-243-8900 6501 Grape Rd. 
574-277-4360 574-243-2100 Se habla Espaiiol 

""Rates exclude taxes & Sprint Fees (including USF charge of up to 2.26% that varies quarterly, cost recovery fees up to $2.83 per line, & state/local fees that vary by area). Sprint Fees are not 
taxes or gov't-req'd charges. Coverage not available everywhere. Available features & services will vary by phone/network. Nationwide Sprint PCS Network reaches over 250 million people. Offers not available in all mar­kets or retail locations. Add'l terms & restrictions apply. Subject to credit. See store or Sprint.com details. Up to $36 activation & $200 early termination fees apply per line. Deposit may be required. Instant Savings: Offer ends 12/31/06 or while supplies last. No cash back. Taxes excluded. Activation at time of purchase required. Mail-in Rebate: Requires purchase & activation by 12/31/06. Rebates cannot exceed purchase price. Taxes excluded. Line must be active 30 consecutive days. Allow 8 to 12 weeks for rebate. ©2006 Sprint Nextel. All rights reserved. Sprint, the "Going Forward" logo. the NEXTEL name & logo, & other trademarks are trademarks of Sprint Nextel. SWEEPSTAKES: NO PURCHASE NECESSARY TO ENTER OR WIN. PURCHASE DOES NOT IMPROVE YOUR CHANCES OF WINNING. The Sprint "Money Talks" Sweepstakes begins 12:00:01 a.m CST on 10/23/06 and ends 11:59:59 p.m. CST on 12/10/06. Open only to legal U.S. residents of lA, IL, Ml, IN, OH, PA, TN and WV, 18 years of age or older. Void where prohibited by law. To enter: Visit a participating Sprint retail store, complete the official entry form and drop in the entry box at the store or enter online at www.moneytalks/registertowin.com. Limit one entry per per­son. Subject to full official rules available online at www.moneytalks/rules.com. Odds of winning are dependent upon number ofeligible entries received. Prizes: One (1) Grand Prize: $10,000 Cash. Value: $10,000. Seven (7) First Prizes: $1,000 Cash. Value: $1,000 each. All prizes will be awarded in the form of a check. Total Value of all prizes: $17,000. SPONSOR: iPCS Wireless, Inc., 1901 N. Roselle Rd .. Schaumburg. IL 60195. OPT-OUT: If you do not want to be contacted regarding iPCS Wireless Inc.'s, Products or services in the future, write to; Jill Moravec, The Ad Group 230 E. 2nd Street. Davenport, lA 52801. 
burgeoning middle class. 

"What kind of rules are these? I don't expect everybody to love animals. But I do want to have my rights to keep pets," said Clare Xiao, an account manager at an advertising company. She sent her larger Brittany to a ken­nel run by a friend and kept her Pekinese, a stray she found on the street. 
"What the government is doing is just disappointing, cold and emotionless," said Xiao. 
Many of the prohibitions have been on the books since 2003, but only sporadically enforced. The city of 13 million people has 1 million dogs, half of them unregistered, according to state media. 
A sharp increase in rabies cases nationwide has prompted the renewed vigilance. Only 3 percent of China's dog's are vac­cinated against rabies and the disease is nearly always fatal in humans once symptoms develop, though it can be warded off by a series of expensive and painful injections. 
Officials have extended the 2003 rules to cover not only Beijing's center but some outly­ing areas. The clampdown, announced Nov. 6, gave owners until Thursday to comply or the dogs would be seized and the owners fined. 
One owner Zhu Qiao has moved three times since 2001 to fmd areas where her black-and­white dog, Gou Gou, could be raised safely and within the law. 
"He's part of my life, he's my friend and family," said Zhu, 30, a television producer. "If you want to impose a law, you have to get the opinion of dog owners and experts. You can't just take them away." 
"I can't move again. There's no option but to hide him and if he gets taken, I'll go with him." 
Another owner had his Labrador retriever taken away Wednesday because she was too big. 
"She is a very amicable dog. She never barked," said the owner, a businessman who would give only his surname Yang.. "If they don't allow me to raise her here, I will fmd another place. I will get her back." 
Witness accounts and photos on the Internet have shown dogs being captured in nets and pum­meled with wooden and metal sticks. But authorities have vowed to carry out a "strict but civilized" campaign that police hoped would not anger dog own­ers, according to the official Xinhua News Agency. 
"I have never heard of dogs being culled after they were caught by police. Dogs are a man's best friend and we treat them as friends, even when we have to lock them up for the sake of public security," Xinhua quot­ed a Ministry of Public Security official, Bao Suixian, as saying. 
Many owners have sent their dogs to kennels outside the city. Some are handing them over to friends and family. 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, November 16, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
Of Pilgrims and prostitutes 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Noo:e Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Gilloon 

MANAGING EDilOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumtikkala AssT. MANAGING Emroru Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDilORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDllOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EollOR: Kelly Meehan PHOlO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: JeffAlbert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CoNTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRAlOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
{574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Back in the days when I was young and naive, I asked my mom what a prostitute was. She said that it was someone who sold her body for money. 
Thus, I grew up believing that a prostitute was one who earned a living by sawing off her own body parts ­an arm, a leg or perhaps even an ear. 

And in my pre­adolescent mind, that wasn't an absurd concept. After all, as illus­trated in the most indispensable book of the fourth grade, "How to Eat Fried Worms" by Thomas Rockwell, people will do ridiculous things for want of money. In the book, Billy attempts to eat 15 worms in 15 days for a 50 dol­lar reward. And if this kid would eat worms for money, it'd only be feasible for older folks to do more drastic things -like chop off body parts. 
And that wasn't the only false pre­tense that I grew up under. For years, I also believed that the Pilgrims and Indians ate turkey at their Thanksgiving feast. It wasn't until high school that I learned that turkeys aren't native to the northeast. 
So what did these bonnet-wearing and feathered headdress-donning (or so the myth goes) individuals eat? No, they didn't eat worms like young Billy did. Instead, duck, deer and oysters likely placated their 17th-century palates. 
Further contrary to my childhood beliefs, the first official Thanksgiving 

EDITORAL CARTOON 
didn't actually take place until the Civil War, long after the bonnet-wear­ers nearly exterminated the feathered headdress-donners. In October of 1863, President Abraham Lincoln declared "the last Thursday of November next" a national holiday. He instituted the holiday as a means of brightening the lives of the American people, whose spirits had been shadowed by years of ferocious warfare. 
So there you have it-the first two American Thanksgiving tales are sto­ries of people who were gracious in the midst of severe misfortune. They didn't have all that they wanted, but nonetheless wanted to give thanks for what they did have. 
And that's the great thing about this holiday-your life doesn't have to be perfect in order for you to be thank­ful. Neither the newly-implanted-as­American Pilgrims, nor the soon-to­be-nearly-exterminated Indians led perfect lives. Heck, they couldn't even eat turkey. And despite the romanti­cized version of the Civil War that's told today, it was a bleak time in American history. "During-bellum" Americans led lives that were far from ideal. Yet they were thankful anyway. 
But as 21st-century Americans, do we give thanks for what we have? Or are we just hungry for more? 
On Thanksgiving, we want the turkey that the Pilgrims and Indians never had. In fact, we want lots of it, so that we can load up on tryptophan and pass out early without the aid of sleeping pills. After all, we don't real­ly want Thanksgiving; we want the day after it. We want the commence­ment of the Christmas season so we can capitalize on holiday sales, all the while listening to our favorite ballad of wanting, Mariah Carey's "Alii Want for Christmas Is You" on repeat. And our Christmas wish lists -filled with things both tangible and intangi­ble -could probably span the length of the Mason-Dixon line. 
I won't lie. I myself breathe a sigh of relief on the day after Thanksgiving when the Christmas season officially begins and it's finally "legal" to enjoy Christmas music. After all, I no longer have to feel guilty about listening to "All I Want for Christmas is You" when it "acci­dentally" plays on my iPod. This is not to say, however, that Thanksgiving is a holiday that should be overlooked; it's more than merely a bridge to Christmas. 
As the Civil War taught us, bridges can be burned. But even amidst the ashes, one can find things to be grate­ful for. 
You might want things -so much so that at times, you'd consider slic­ing off a body part or two, if only it'd get you what you fancy. But I'm fairly certain that you already have much to be thankful for -like a mom who euphemized the definition of a prosti­tute; she only wanted to protect your innocence. 
Thanksgiving -it's a holiday about appreciating. So let's appreciate it. 
Liz Coffey is a senior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor. Her column appears every other Thursday. She can be reached at ecoffey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universiry ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials·represent the opinion of the majoriry ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observa (USPS ')99 2-4000) is publisht:d Monday through Friday u~pt during exam and vaauion periods. A subscription ro The O~rvcr Is $100 for one aQ({c:mic year; $55 for one semester. 
The ObstrYet is published ae-POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining HaJI &nd address corra:tiom to: 
Notre Dame. IN 46556-0779 Tht: Observer 
Pcriodkal postagt paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556·0779 
The Ob~rvu is: a member ofthe AssQciatcd Press. Ail .n:produaion rights ue reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Laura Kyle Cassity Baumgartner Francine Tolan Kelly Meehan Bill Brink 
Liz Harter Scene Viewpoint Erin McGinn 
Alyssa Brauweiler Graphics Madeleine Nies 


>o M\JC.H•.• 
I 

QUOTE OF THE DAYOBSERVER POLL 
Submit aLetter
Do you plan to see 

"Nobody in football should be called a
"Loyal Daughters?" 
genius. A genius is a gup like Norman Einstein. ' 
to. t'h,e E·····d(·t.,•t·o·'f' a·t·
., . i ; _,•. : ,....,.,: J ' . " ' ' 'i : : : •• 
Joe Theismann football player, amateur physicist 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, November 16, 2006 page 11 
Mass from Notre Dame means a lot 
For the past three years, Mass from the Basilica of the Sacred Heart has been nationally televised each Sunday on the Hallmark Channel. Nielsen ratings, adjusted for a Catholic viewing audience, count up to 1.5 million people joining by television our regu­lar worshippers at the Basilica. The many people who write to Richard V. Father Peter Rocca, C.S.C., rector Warner of the Basilica, or to one of the two directors of the Notre Dame FaithPoint Liturgical Choir and the Notre Dame Women's Liturgical Choir, Dr. Gail Walton and Dr. Andrew McShane, respectively, refer to many things they enjoy each Sunday morning when they tune in to "Sunday Mass from Notre Dame." 
They love the astounding beauty of the Basilica. They enjoy the music and the homilies, which they can access each week on the Campus Ministry web­site. They write to tell us how impressed they are by the large number of young men and women who are present for Mass, and how this gives them joy and hope for the future of the Catholic Church in our country. 
They like the wide age spread of the Holy ·Cross priests who preside at the Masses. And they let us in on especially touching moments in their lives. 
One man wrote to tell us that for six months before his wife died of cancer, the two of them "attended" Mass together every Sunday while hold­ing hands and watching the Mass from Notre Dame. At the end of the Mass, their daughter, who serves as a Eucharistic minister in their parish, brought them the Eucharist. 
A woman from California told us that, while she was channel-surfing one Sunday morning while tak­ing a break from gardening, she happened upon the Mass. After more than twenty years as a lapsed Catholic, she started watching the Mass each week. A love for the Church and the Eucharist was reawakened in her heart, and she wrote about the joy she now experiences after returning to the Church last Easter. 
The director of an RCIA program in her parish in Colorado told us of a young man who dropped out of the program last year. He rejoined it as a result of a homily in which the priest asked the question, "Where would we be without the presence of Jesus in the Eucharist?" He realized that was why he wanted to become a Catholic, and did so in April. 
The Hallmark Channel, through Faith & Values Media, continues to televise the Vigil Mass from the Basilica on a tape delay (except for home football weekends, when it is live) at· 8:00 a.m. 
In addition to this, DirecTV will begin to broadcast the 10:00 a.m. Mass live every Sunday in all time zones, starting Dec. 3, on channel 103. They will also televise Midnight Mass from the Basilica this Christmas. And, at the request of men and women serving in the military in Afghanistan and Iraq, "Sunday Mass from Notre Dame" is archived each week and available for them through the Notre Dame website. 
But there's more. 

The Notre Dame Folk Choir and six Holy Cross priests from Notre Dame will soon be offering 15 minutes of song, scripture and reflections every week as a podcast. It will be available starting in the second semester at www.ndprayercast.org. Steve Warner, director of the Notre Dame Folk Choir, is the idea man and organizing skill behind this new Campus Ministry effort. Join us! 
Father Richard V. Warner, CSC, is the director of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at rwarner@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
U-WIRE 
Tell me no lies 
There's been a lot of fuss recently about sexual assault. Many college men, obviously sympathetic to the issue, argue that although women are not to blame for rape, there are pre­cautions that can 
Marta Cook

be taken to make these "unwanted 
University of 

situations" less 
Virginia

likely. Don't wear 
Cavalier Daily 

those scandalous mini-skirts. Don't walk home at 4 a.m. Alas, ifit were only so easy. 
All these well-meaning words of advice are based on assumptions and biases that obfuscate the reality of sex­ual assault. When the rapist is statisti­cally more likely to be the nice young man walking the woman home than a stranger from the shadows of an alley, the unfortunate futility of "prevention" is made manifest. Thus, instead of pon­tificating about what a woman can do to prevent the unpreventable, it is more productive to promote an environment of believing the survivor rather than at all implying she had a say in whether or not she was sexually assaulted. 
Women are told by society not to put themselves in dangerous situations; the problem is, any situation can be dan­gerous. First of all, disabuse yourself of the creepy-stranger image of a rapist. Seventy-five percent of rapists have known their victims for more than a year. The very word "rapist" has such a pejorative connotation that most people construct an image completely incon­sistent with reality. Rapists aren't always those guys you see on America's Most Wanted. It's more likely your best friend's boyfriend's friend you had a great time talking to at the bar. In order to wrap our minds around diffi­cult truths, we tend to categorize and simplify people into Disney-esque good guys and bad guys. Yes, there are quite a few categorically bad people who sexually assault women and men. At the same time, otherwise good people make some very sordid decisions. These men may have believed the woman wanted it-she was just play­ing hard to get. But there is pretty clear difference between a woman being playful and a woman who physically and verbally says "no." For such an intimate act, both people should at the very least clearly consent. 
If any life scenario can·become dan­gerous, what is a woman supposed to do? Should she stay in her room all day and night, doors locked, under the cov­ers, armed with a can of mace? What so many people don't understand is that there is no real precaution that can be taken to prevent a rapist from following through on his intentions. 
The most offensive, vile comment made to a sexual assault survivor is that she was too confused to know if she was raped or not. Let's reconstruct the scene: A woman was drillking a lit­tle too much jungle juice at her favorite fraternity, she meets a handsome man wearing a polo of a very flattering shade of pink, one thing leads to anoth­er, and she wakes up the next morning next to someone whose name she can­not remember: Ah, pity the feeble woman whose mind cannot distinguish between regret and rape! What a deeply sadistic and vindictive woman to go through the pains of a rape kit (25 pubic hairs are individually plucked in order to file a police report) in order to ... punish the man? This is simply not what occurs. According to the FBI Uniform Crime Reports, less than five percent of rape reports are false. This is a very small number. The bigger issue, however, is the fact that more than half of sexual assaults go unre­ported, according to RAlNN. Most women who are raped never file a police report out of shame and not wanting to endure accusations like those levied against them in today's culture of "what they should have done." 
Instead of questioning a woman who has the courage to report rape, it is much more rational and humane to believe her. The line of questioning used in sexual assault cases versus other types of violent crime puts in relief the prejudice against women. When someone is robbed, people don't ask, "Well, how late were you out?" "Did you fight back?" No, of course not. Why then, is sexual assault so differ­ent? As long as victim-blaming contin­ues to drown out the cries of sexually assaulted women, this culture of silence will persist and envelope our mothers, our daughters and our sisters in a wrought-iron cage of paranoia and self-blame. 
This column originally appeared in the Nov. 15 issue ofthe Cavalier Daily, the daily publication at the University ofVirginia. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Remember how lucky we are 
There will be an empty chair in May. One of our family will not be present on graduation day. Caitlin Brann, a senior at Notre Dame, was killed in a car accident Friday. She was 22. I did not know Caitlin. I cannot imagine what the people who loved her are going through and my deepest condolences are with them, but I feel the loss of a member of our commu­nity. Her death is a heartbreaking reminder of how fragile and precious life is. After I learned the news I asked family and friends how to honor someone that has died. Celebrate the good choices she made, learn from her mistakes and don't waste a single day of our own lives. Mourn Caitlin's death and then celebrate her life. We are all very lucky to be here on earth, to be a part of the Notre Dame family, to be able to wake up every morn­ing. Caitlin does not get another chance to live, but we do. We must live every day to the fullest. It can be gone in an instant. Let Caitlin's death not be in vain. At the very least, let it remind us to live. 
Jennifer Sayers senior Farley Hall Nov.l4 

The graduate community a different perspective 
A number of recent Letters to the Editor in The Observer have centered around the issue of whether or not graduate students should be included in the football ticket lot­tery and the Notre Dame experience. These commentaries have raised the deeper ques­tion of how graduate students fit into the Notre Danie community. In my opinion this is ultimately a question about the University's identity and mission. While it is true that Notre Dame has a unique under­graduate identity, this is only one facet of its richly textured identity as a university. Even this "unique" identity is dynamic, striving as we do for greater diversity with regard to race and ethnicity, gender, socioe­conomic class, religion, physical ability and scholarship. Diversity is enriched by our graduate students, who are, indeed, vital members of our community. In many instances, they are the first teachers and mentors that students encounter when they begin their undergraduate career at Notre Dame. 
Graduate students have contributed much to making the First Year of Studies the pre-eminent program that it is in the nation. Along with faculty members, gradu­ate students inspire their younger, under­graduate colleagues to pursue their dreams. They model what it means to be a scholar. Having jobs, spouses, children and homes with mortgages, they also model how they, as students, balance real lives. In his presidential inaugural address last year, University President Father John Jenkins spoke of the inclusive spirit that we must embody if we are to become a truly great university, saying that "We cannot be truly Catholic if we are exclusively Catholic." Provost Tom Burish echoed this belief in his address to the faculty last month, in which he emphasized the importance of fulfilling Notre Dame's potential for excellence as a graduate research institution. This implies, of course, that we cannot be a pre-eminent university if we do not include our graduate students as a valuable part of the Notre Dame community. Jenkins has also said, "Scholars in diverse disciplines pursue the same truth. Truths found in physics and biology do relate to those found in art, liter­ature and philosophy, and our common pursuit of truth must include conversations across disciplines." Our common pursuit of truth must also include conversations across cultures and across generations of students and faculty. We are all in this aca­demic enterprise together. 
Our distinctive Catholic mission is the University's strength. It is part of what accounts for the sense of community on campus. And it is this sense of community, its generosity of spirit, its hospitality, that draw both undergraduate and graduate students here in the first place. Granted, there are finite resources like football tick­ets, or on-campus housing or a number of other things. But if we are to embody the ideals of community, we cannot be posses­sive of the "Notre Dame experience" and all that it has to offer. 
Donald B. Pope-Davis, Ph.D. Dean of the Graduate School Nov. 15 


---, __ ------------------~--------------------------------, 
Tt--·1 E0 HSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Thursday, November 16, 2006 

Celebrity loves make and break America's heart 
In the midst of the recent midterm elec­tions, an even more crucial and earth­shattering world event took place ­Britney and K-Fed ended their tumultuous and often "chaotic" marriage. No less than a week prior, long­time fan-favorite celebrity couple Reese Witherspoon and Ryan Phillippe decided to separate after seven years of marriage. When the public flag­bearers of love decide to call it quits, it's hard to imagine that true love could possibly exist in such a world. 
The Americ.an pub­lic looks to celebrities, especially movie stars, for the answers to all of life's major dilem­mas -what clothes to wear, cars to drive and most importantly how to sustain a relationship. Celebrity relationships have always been a hot topic to both hard-core celeb chasers as well as to the more casual voyeur. Very few things attract the atten­tion and hunger of the American public more than a celebrity relationship gone horribly wrong. 
The most recent heartbreaker came in the form of the Witherspoon-Phillippe split. The adorable and drama-free couple was much beloved by fans the world over. The young, attractive and family-oriented cou­ple was viewed as one of those steadfast 

Erin McGinn 
Assistant Scene Editor 
and ideal relationships that worn there to be emulated. Seven years later, it was 
over. 

No celebrity break-up has arguably been more painful in recent years than that of Jessica Simpson and Nick Laehey. Like Reese and Hyan, Nick and Jessica had been long adored by fans and had gar­nered a huge following. From their long and very public courtship to their televised wedding, Simpson and Lachey madn their living by loudly and publidy proclaiming their undying love for each other. 
Their show "Newlyweds," whkh aired on MTV for throe so~sons, firmly estab­lished them as the couple-to-bn among celebrities. Only three years into their marriage, they shocked their fans and general public alike when they liled for divorce. They were Hollywood's perfect couple, complete with their very own fami­ly Christmas special. Even they couldn't keep it together. 
While Nick and Jessica were the king and queen of America's homeeoming, Britney and K-Fed were the weird couple who reeked of pot and praeticed a little too much PDA. Attempting to mooch off of the "Newlyweds" cash cow, Britney and K-Fed had their own abomination of a reality show, "Britney & Kevin: Chaotic," that poorly displayed the couple and all of their married antics. While it was much less heartbreaking and tragic than the other splits, it nevertheless caught the eye of the American people as much, if not more, than the concurrent elections. 
Judging from these splits, it really is hard to keep believing in love. But for every celebrity couple that comes to a tragic demise, there is another couple springing up in passionate love-often times these passionate loves spring out of the ashes of a fallen couple. Were it not for the split of Brad and Jennifer, we would never have been bestowed with the won­der that is Brangelina. 
But who else embodies true love more than TomKat? Nothing screams true love still exists in the world quite like Tom Cruise jumping on Oprah's couch. With their Italian marriage on the horizon this weekend, it's impossible not to be in the mood for love. 

The recent journeys to splitsville may have soured the idea of love for most, but fortunately Tom and Katie are here with the opportunity to bring true love back to the American populace. 
Contact bnn McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
I sell'&fiRn I 
Jack Palance fondly remembered for classic roles 
Jack Palance was a man's man. He had the kind of cowboy gruffness that every kid who had ever watched a Western wished they could emulate -or, like their idol, ride off into the sunset themselves. 
He was unlike any other, and his dis­tinctive voice gave us villains from classics that range from the classic Western "Shane" to Tim Burton's "Batman" and all the way around to Curly and Duke in the "City Slickers" series. He was a giant among actors and matched his onscreen tough guy look with a real tough guy persona, having worked as a coal miner, a boxer and a student pilot during World War II. 
Born Volodymyr Palahniuk to a coal mining family of Ukrainian descent in western Pennsylvania. After working as a coal miner with his father, he began a boxing career. Fighting under t:he name Jack Brazzo, he recorded 12 knockouts before losing to future heavyweight contender Joe Baksi. This career, after a promising start, didn't pan out so Jack looked to other places and discovered a passion for drama. 
Attending Stanford University for drama and earning a B.A., his big break came when he landed the spot 

Marty Schroeder 
Assistant Scene Editor 
as Marlon Brando's understudy for 'A Streetcar Named Desire." lie eventu­ally replaced the immortal Brando for this play, which led to his career on the silver screen. His first role was in 1950s "Panic in the Streets," which led to the biggest break of his career -starring as the villain Lester Blaine in the 1952 film noir, "Sudden Fear." This led to a nomination for an Academy Award in the best support­ing actor category. His star was shin­ing, as this was only his third screen appearance. He went on to play simi­lar villainous roles such as Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, Dracula and Attila tlw Hun. 
Throughout his career, he was gen­erally typecast as a villain, such as the iconic Jack Wilson in an Academy Award-nominated performance for "Shane" -:-and found it hard to find roles outside of' this type. 
In order to combat this, hn took the role of pompous Hollywood producer Jeremy Prokosch in .Jean-Lue Godard's artsy 1963 film "l.es Mepris." 
Jlowever, after receiving tlw same types of offers time al'ter time, Palance and his family movod to Switzerland in am attempt to divorsi­fy his repertoire. However, al'ter six years he retu_rned to the United States, claiming the Europeans were offering him the exact same roles he hoped to escape from in Hollywood. 
In his old age, never one to back down from a challenge, he took on the role of grizzled and curmudgeon­ly Curly. This satire on his prcvieous pt~rsona garnnrnd him yet another Oscar nomination, whieh he won. In one of the more famous moments in his life, Palanec, at the age of 73, performed one-armed pushups on stag1~ as part ol' his acceptance pieee. Still tht~ tough guy. 

Earlier gonerations may remember him for his roles as murderers in J'ilm noirs and evil gunslingers in Westerns, while tho younger genera­tions will remember his Boss Grissom in "Batman" and Curly from "City Slickers." llowever Palance is remembernd, he will always be revered as a singular figure who was able to elevate hims.elf over the poli­tics of Jlollywood. Just as tough in real life as he was on the screen, his presence will be sorely missed. His distinctive rasp and independent atti­tude will forever be placed in the upper echelons of Hollywood star­dom. 
You will be missed, Jack Palance, sorely missed. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroe1 @nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
....---------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, November 16, 2006 
page 13 
DVD REVIEW 
Old boy, neW" tricks: Park's 2005 Korean thriller gets three-disc collector's edition 

By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 
Park Chan-wook's "Oldeuboi" ("Oidboy"), which was already released on DVD back in 2005, has been given the Collector's Edition treatment by Tartan video. The Korean film, already a cult classic, has increased in stature over the years, thanks in no small part to the original Tartan DVD release. 
Nominally, "Oldboy" is a revenge story, but a bizarre and warped one, filled with violent twists and unexpect­ed narrative shifts. Its basic plot involves Oh Dae-su (Choi Min-sik), a man who is locked up by unseen forces for 15 years without knowing why. After his release, he sets off to discover who imprisoned him and why, only to discover a strange conspiracy involving his past. . 
Park infuses "Oldboy" with a light­ning-fast rhythm, which makes the film fly through its two-hour run-time. Audiences are riveted as the mystery unfolds, but Park is smart enough to make the journey as strange and satis­fying as the ultimate destination. 
Park's film is violent and often dis­turbing, but the director gets to the heart of his story, giving it a surprising emotional weight for a film of this type. There are several intense, relentless action sequences, all of which are well done -most notably, a long tracking shot in which Oh Dae-Su fights several cronies in an alley. Choi Min-sik gives an amazing performance as the protag­onist, especially in one infamous and shockingly effective scene in which... well. let's just say that animals were definitely harmed in the making of this movie. 
Tartan has gone the whole nine yards in its presentation of the new three-disc Collector's Edition of "Oldboy." There are a host of special features that are spread across the discs, though most of them are housed on the second. The picture has been cleaned up from the previous DVD and looks much improved, with better contrast and sig­nificantly clearer image quality. 
The audio is available in several mixes -6.1 DTS-ES and 5.1 Dolby Digital Korean mixes, and a 5.1 English dubbed version. The 6.1 DTS-ES is eas­ily the best of the mixes for those who have the proper equipment, as the sound in the action sequences practi­cally jump out of the speakers. The English dubbed version should be avoided at all costs, as the dubbing is not particularly great, and the sound mix takes a noticeable hit in atmos­phere. There are English subtitles available, which, while not perfect, are pretty good in their translations. 
The cream of the special features include commentaries from the direc­tor, cinematographer and cast, and sev­eral excellent "behind the scenes" doc­umentaries. There are also 10 deleted scenes with commentary, a featurette, a video diary from the movie shoot and (in a nice touch) the original Japanese graphic novel on which the film is based (translated into English). 
Most of the features are informative and interesting, though the third disc, which contains the video diary, is a bit much. "Oldboy" comes in a cool metal­lic tin, with a presentation that resem­bles HBO's "Band of Brothers" in its look and cover, which is a bit strange considering the huge differences in con­tent. 
"Oldboy" is a unique and bizarre film, and it represents a new peak in Korean cinema. While only a year old, it indi­cates a new and interesting direction for Park, who continues to outdo him­

.self with every picture. Although Tartan's origi­nal DVD was decent enough, the new three­disc collector's edition is essential for any fan of Park, "Oldboy" or Korean cinema in gen­eral. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, November 16, 2006 
NHL 

Bruinstake down Capitals in shootout, win 3-2 
line. He passed to Brind'Amour Prospal's goal at 7:22 of the
Boston wins after 

in the slot, setting up the second tied it at 1 for the Hurricanes captain for a quick Lightning, 4-1-1 in the past six
surrendering 2-0 

wrist shot that beat goalie games.first-period advantage Kevin Weekes high. Souray made it 2-1 from the 
The Rangers pulled Weekes top of the right circle with 4:48 
with about 54 seconds remain­left in the second. The defense­
Associated Press 

ing for an extra attacker, but man had not scored a goal in 
WASHINGTON -Patrice they managed only one shot in six games. Bergeron scored the only goal the final moments. Guillaume Latendresse in the shootout, lifting the Jaromir Jagr scored the 599th extended the Canadiens' lead to Boston Bruins past the goal of his career for New York. 3-1 on the power play with Washington Capitals 3-2 He had two goals in the 10:36 left. Wednesday night. Rangers' 3-2 home victory over Tampa Bay's Marc Denis 
After Bergeron beat Olie the New Jersey Devils on made 25 saves. Kolzig, Tim Thomas snuffed a Tuesday night. shot by Matt Pettinger to secure Weekes made 22 saves for the Ottawa 4, Buffalo 2 the victory. The Capitals are 0-4 Rangers, who missed on a Peter Schaefer broke a third­in shootouts this season. chance to take over sole posses­period tie, helping the strug­
Thomas stopped 33 shots for sion of first place in the Atlantic gling Ottawa Senators beat the the Bruins, who got first-period Division and remained tied with Buffalo Sabres on Wednesday goals from Phil Kessel and Brad the Devils. night. Stuart. Brind'Amour has a six-game Chris Neil, Jason Spezza and 
Boston outshot Washington point streak. Chris Phillips also scored for thfl 14-7 during a scoreless third Adams put the Hurricanes up Senators, who snapped a two­period and 5-1 in overtime. 1-0 when he scored his third game losing streak and won for 
Dainius Zubrus scored his goal of the season less than 3 only the second time in nine 12th goal and Pettinger had a minutes in, snatching a back­games. short-handed tally for the handed pass from Anton Daniel Briere and Thomas Capitals, who trailed 2-0 in the Babchuk and beating Weekes Vanek scored for the Sabres, game's 15th minute. Kolzig had with a tap-in. who had their four-game win­33 saves, and Alex Ovechkin Jagr tied it with a power-play ning streak snapped. Buffalo and Alexander Semin each had goal late in the second period. (15-2-l)lost for only the second an assist. He took Brendan Shanahan's time in regulation. 
Washington had won two pass in the left circle and Schaefer deflected Daniel straight and four of five. snapped a shot past Ward at Alfredsson's wrist shot from the 
Boston took only seven shots 16:02. right point past goalie Martin in the first period, but two Both teams missed on first­Biron with 7:11 left in the third found the back of the net. period breakaway chances. to give 'the Senators a 3-2 lead. Kessel and Stuart both scored Cam Ward stopped Jagr cold The goal was upheld after a within seconds of leaving the shortly after Adams' goal. Jagr replay review showed he didn't penalty box to make it 2-0. made a nifty move left and tried strike the puck with a high Kessel converted a breakaway to beat the goalie stickside, but stick. at 6:36, and Stuart connected Ward blocked it with his right Ottawa's Ray Emery made 27 with a wrist shot from inside pad. saves in his first start since a the blue line. Near the end of the period, loss to Montreal on Oct. 31. He 
Marc Savard assisted on both Carolina's Eric Belanger had been hampered by a goals, extending his point seemed to have Weekes fooled, sprained left wrist sustained Vermette in the first period, and an assist for Columbus, which streak to seven games. He has but his shot bounced off the left eight days earlier in practice. was helped in the second when has lost four of five. 15 assists in 15 games. post. It was the first of four Phillips sealed the win with a Ottawa defenseman Anton Down 3-2 early in the third 
Pettinger brought the Capitals Carolina shots that struck posts. short-handed, empty-netter that Volchenkov's slap shot rico­period, Nash and Modin scored to 2-1 with 4 minutes left in the was shot from behind his goal cheted off two Buffalo players twice in a 1:50 span to make it first period, and Zubrus tied it Montreal 3, Tampa Bay 1 line. before hitting the right post. 4-3 at 9:12. But Legwand and with a power-play goal at 12:19 Sheldon Souray scored a pair Briere gave Buffalo a 1-0 lead Nichol quickly countered with of the second. Zubrus was alone of power-play goals, helping the 5 1/2 minutes in after he cor­Nashville 5, Columbus 4 goals 31 seconds apart just past in the right circle when Montreal Canadiens beat the ralled Ottawa defenseman David Legwand had two goals the midway point to make it 5-4 Ovechkin found him with a pass · Tampa Bay Lightning on Andrej Meszaros' errant clear­and an assist and the Nashville Predators.Legwand stuffed across the slot. Wednesday night. ing pass at the Senators blue Predators beat the Columbus home his own rebound at 11:32 
Souray opened the scoring line. Briere took two strides and Blue Jackets Wednesday night to tie it at 4. Hurricanes 2, Rangers 1 2:35 in and then gave Montreal let go a slap shot from the top to ruin the debut of Blue After Columbus defenseman Rod Brind'Amour scored with a 2-1 lead late in the second. He of the right circle that beat Jackets interim coach Gary Aaron Johnson turned the puck 
6:05 left in the third period to has three two-goal games this Emery. Agnew. over deep in his own end, lift the Carolina Hurricanes to a season. Seven of his eight goals The Senators tied it 4 minutes Agnew replaced Gerard Nichol put the puck past goal­victory over the New York have come with the man advan­later on the power play when Gallant, who was fired Monday, tender Pascal Leclaire at 12:03 Rangers on Wednesday night. tage. Neil's wrist shot from the bot­one day after a shutout loss for a 5-4 Nashville lead. 
Cam Ward stopped 23 shots, Montreal captain Saku Koivu tom of the left circle got by dropped the league's lowest Nash made it 3-3 after taking bouncing back from a poor per­recorded his 335th assist with Biron. scoring team into last place in a pass from Rostislav Klesla formance two nights earlier in the Canadiens, tying him for Vanek made it 2-1 with his the Central Division. Agnew down the right wing and snap­which he allowed six goals in a 16th on the franchise's career team-leading 12th goal, con­joined the Blue Jackets as an ping a shotpast Tomas Vokoun. 7-4 loss to the Buffalo Sabres. list with Claude Provost. verting a rebound after Emery assistant in the offseason after On a similar play, Nash came Craig Adams also scored for the Vinny Prospal scored for stopped Drew Stafford's wrist coaching their top affiliate for out of the corner and centered Hurricanes. Tampa Bay but Vincent shot from the right circle. six seasons. a pass to Modin for a one-timer 
Brind'Amour's winning goal Lecavalier and Martin St. Louis Spezza tied it at 2 with a J.P. Dumont, Vernon Fiddler to give Columbus a 4-3 lead. came moments after the each had 11-game point streaks power-play goal at 6:32 of the and Scott Nichol also scored for Columbus pressured right out Rangers won a faceoff in the snapped. third, deflecting Meszaros' slap Nashville, which has won seven of the gate, but Nashville scored left circle of their zone. Montreal's Cristobal Huet shot from the left point. of eight overall and eight of its first. Positioned in the slot, 
Former Hurricanes defense­made 29 saves, including five Biron made 19 saves and lost last nine road games. Paul Dumont redirected Kimmo man Aaron Ward lost the puck, on Lecavalier in the first. The for the first time in five starts. Kariya added two assists. Timonen's point shot for a and Carolina's Justin Williams Canadiens have won five of He foiled breakaway attempts Rick Nash scored twice and power-play goal at 5:21 of the tracked it down behind the goal seven. by Alfredsson and Antoine Fredrik Modin tallied a goal and opening period. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 Bedrooms 
WANTED www.NDstudentrentals.com 
WANTEOD: 1990 or 91 The Shirt. Nice, like new, 2 rm. next to cam­$100 for quality shirt. Call Dan at pus. Up to 4 people. For football 712-251-0930. weekend. 
Call George 574-272-0928. 
FoR RENT 

2-6 BDRM HOMES 07-08 OR BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam-NOW. 574-329-0308 pus homes & weekend rentals. 
Bluegoldrentals.com E Washington St., updated, 4 bed,2 
baths, wash/dryer, A/C, security RV NO home games. Sleeps 6-8. system, dishwasher, Transportation, tailgating & lodging. NICE! 574-243-5547. Call John 574-274-5692. 
Furnished 1 bdrm Jamison condo. Nov-May 07. Call Mary Anne 607-723-7363 or 607-770-0944. 
3-6 Bedroom homes, walking dis-lance, washer, dryer. MMM Rentals. Contact Ga!Y 574-993-2208. 
TICKETS 
WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251-1570 
FOR SALE: NO TICKETS. 232-0964 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED:  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
FOOTBALL TICKETS.  
TOP DOLLAR PAID.  PERSONAL  Do not go it alone.  
NOBODY WILL PAY MORE.  
574-288-2726.  AITORNEY Lyn Leone available.  If you  
Underage consumption, OWl. 574­ or someone you love  
FOR SALE:  272-1968.  needs confidential  
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.  support or assistance,  
BEST PRICES.  Spring Break 2007 Celebration.  please call Sr. Sue Dunn,  
57 4-232-2378.  20th Anniversary w/Sun Splash  OP, at 1-7819.  
Tours.  
FoR SALE  Free trip on every 12 before Nov. 1. Free Meals & Parties, Hottest Deals  For more information, visit our web site  
Ever. Group Discounts on 6 or  at  
3-4 BDRM HOME, 2 BATHS, 1 MI.  more.  http://osa.nd.edu/departrnents/preg- 
N. OF NO.  Hottest Spring Break Destinations.  nant.shtml  
ENCLOSED YARD. $135,000.  1800-426-771 0.  or see our bi-weekly ad in  
574-277-8907 OR 532-9653.  www.sunsplashtours.com  The Observer.  



OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, November 16, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
:··;:%;:;:;:;::;::.::·· ,. ..,,~@:}!{:' 
USCHO.com/CSTV Men's' ,, Division I Hockey Poll 
~-·::=·:~r;~:::·:::::;:::::::r:.. 
l&am 
1 Maine 2 Minnesota 3 North Dakota 4 Michigan State 5 NOTRE DAME 6 Miami 7 Boston College 8 Michigan 9 Boston University 10 New Hampshire 11 Denver 

.12 Cornell 13 Dartmouth 14 Wisconsin 15 Northern Michigan 16 Rensselaer ... • 17 St. Cloud Stifle 18 Clarkson 19 Alaska 20 Massachusetts 
recora 
8"H 
8~H 6·3~2 5~2~1· 8~1'1 
84·0 
6-3~0 
7-3·0 
2~1~4 
·5"2:f 
. 6~+ti%i 5~1~ 4~2~ ~2 


Preseason Poll 
team  p<Jints  
1  Hope  g  
2  Calvin  14  
3  Olivet  25  
4  Albion  28  
5  SAINT MARY'S  40  
6  Adrian  47  
7  Alma  49  
8  Tri-State  54  
9  Kalamazoo  58  


zoos~o6 
16·0 14-2 8·8 9·7 9·7 
4-12 
7-9 
1·15 4-12 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Associated Press 

Don Strock has resigned as coach at Florida International, one of only two winless Division 1-A programs this season and a program still dealing with effects of a sideline-clearing brawl against Miami last month. 
Strock submitted his res­ignation Wednesday, uni­versity officials said. He will coach the Golden Panthers' final three games of the season. 
"Now is a good time to move on to other chal­lenges," Strock said. "I wish FlU every success." 
Reached Wednesday 
evening, Strock would not say if the brawl that marred Florida International's game against Miami Oct. 14 was a major factor in his decision to step aside. He would only say that he would reveal the reasons behind the decision before FlU's practice Thursday afternoon. 
"''m doing everything then," Strock told The Associated Press. 
A total of 31 players -18 from FlU, 13 from Miami ­were sanctioned for their role in the fight, which took place in the third quarter of the Hurricanes' 35-0 victo­ry. The Golden Panthers suspended 16 players indef­initely, plus kicked two oth­ers off the team but allowed them to keep their scholar­ships. 
FlU reinstated three of the suspended players last week before the team's 35­0 loss to Louisiana-Monroe. More players could return by season's end, university officials said. 
Strock is the only head coach in FlU's brief football history. The former Miami Dolphins quarterback was hired as director of football operations in 1999, then was named coach Sept. 13, 2000. 
Pete Garcia, who was hired from Miami as FlU's athletic director last month, said the university was appreciative for Strock's role in starting the program and helping it reach Division 1-A status. 
"The role of the founding coach of a university foot­ball program is extremely challenging and requires very hard work and dedica­tion," Garcia said in a state­ment released by the school. "We are grateful to coach Strock for laying the foundation for our pro­gram." 
FlU was 5-6 in 2002, its first season under Strock. It went 5-6 again last season -sparking hope that this season could be a break­through for the program. 
IN BRIEF 

Professional poker player arrested for running gambling ring 
NEW YORK -It was the high-tech key to a massive, illegal gambling kingdom: a laptop computer that authorities say was owned by a pro­fessional poker player named James Giordano. 
Giordano, who rarely let the com­puter out of his sight, unknowingly took a gamble earlier this year by leaving it behind while attending a wedding, police said Wednesday. 
But in the three hours he and his wife were away from their Long Island hotel room, New York Police Department investigators armed with a search warrant and computer expertise sneaked in, found the laptop on a desk and made a digital copy of the hard drive before the couple returned. 
The covert operation on June 15 helped unlock a sophisticated billion­dollar-a-year gambling scheme that rivaled casino sports books, authori· ties said at a news conference . 
AP Poll board member removed after mistaking win for loss 
OKLAHOMA CITY -A voter for The Associated Press college football poll was removed from the poll· board Wednesday because he mis­takenly thought Oklahoma had lost to Texas Tech and voted the Sooners lower in this week's rankings. 
Jim Kleinpeter of The Times­Picayune of New Orleans said he tried to find the score of the Oklahoma game, but was unable to do so. 
He said he was in the press box at the Alabama-LSU game "and I was asking about different teams, think­ing about the poll the next day. ... I thought somebody told me that Oklahoma was losing to Texas Tech at some point. And I asked after the LSU game was over, 'Did Oklahoma win?' Somebody said Oklahoma lost," Kleinpeter said. 
The Sooners rallied from a 14­point deficit to beat Texas Tech 34­24. 
Youth coach possibly facing charges after attacking referee 
CORPUS CHRISTI, Texas ­Authorities are considering charges against a Pee Wee football coach who was caught on videotape attacking a referee after being told to stop curs­ing on the sidelines in front of his 5­and 6-year~old players, police said. 
The amateur video of the Nov. 4 incident shows the coach charging onto a field and tackling the 18-year­old referee, who police Capt. John Houston said was briefly knocked unconscious. 
"The coach had been warned sever­al times about cursing on the side­lines. When the referee ejected him from the game, that's when he rushed him," Houston said Tuesday. 
A crowd of parents ran onto the field and surrounded the pair, he said. 
Investigators plan to meet with Nueces County prosecutors to deter­mine if the coach and at least one other man should face charges, Houston said. 
around the dial 
TODAY 
NCAA FOOTBALL West Virginia at Pittsburgh 7:45p.m., ESPN 
Akron at Ohio 
7:30 p.m., ESPNU 
NBA Bulls at Rockets 8 p.m., TNT 
Kings at Warriors 
10:30 p.m., TNT 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 16, 2006 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Golden Eagles soar over favored Jayhawks 
Ranked Kentucky, North Carolina squads get victories 
Associated Press 
LAWHENCE, Kan. Marchello Vealy and his Oral Roberts teammates went into Allen Fieldhouse with one goal. 
"We wanted to come out and shock the world tonight," Vealy said, "and we did it." 
Vealy hit his first seven 3­point shots and Oral Hoberts outplayed No. 3 Kansas the whole way, stunning the ragged Jayhawks 78-71 Wednesday night. 
"It may be the biggest regu­lar-season win in school histo­ry," coach Scott Sutton said. "Our trainer has been here over 30 years and said it was the highest-ranked team we've ever beat." 
Vealy, a 6-7 sophomore who shot 1-for-13 on 3-pointers last season, finished 7 -for-8 from behind the arc. His only miss came on his last heave, after the Golden Eagles had thor­oughly taken command. 

The Golden Eagles (1-1) seemed quicker, more aggres­sive and better organized than the favored Jayhawks (1-1) from start to finish. 
After trailing by as many as 10 points in the first half, the Big 12 favorites got as close as three. 
But Ken Tutt hit OHU's 11th 3­pointer and added two free throws in the final minute. Caleb Green, a two-time Mid­Continent Conference player of the year, added 20 points and 11 rebounds. 
"That team was a hungry team we played tonight," Kansas coach Bill Self said. "Caleb led the charge. I thought when we stopped them in the second half, I thought it was more their missing than us 
Students 
FIVCheaper 
Sample Fares from South Bend to: Sample Fares from Chicago to: 
Pittsburgh $151 Madrid $321 
Chicago $151 Florence $412 
$202 Singapore 
12Lab Graduate Fellowships 
Students planning to enroll in a PhD program in Fall 2007 are invited to apply for 12Lab Graduate fellow­ships available for the College of Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Central Florida. 
These fellowships are intended for students interested in interdisciplinary research in science and engineer­ing in areas such as Systems Biology, Entertainment Engineering, Computational Nanoscience, Quantum Computing and Information Theory, and Computational Mechanics and Energy Science. Each fellowship provides a stipend and full tuition coverage. 
Apply online at http://www.graduate.cecs.ucf.edu/ or contact the Academic Affairs Office (407.823.2455). All applications received before January 31, 2007 will be considered. 

stopping them." 
Kansas cut its deficit to 72-69 on Russell Hobinson's free throw with one minute lert before Tutt sealed Kansas' 11th loss in its last 176 games at home. 
Tutt and Adam Liberty each had 12 points for the two-time defending conference champi­ons. 
''I've never seen anything like this tonight," Sutton said. "It was shocking at one point, but at the end of the day, it's a bas­ketball game. Everybody has to put their shoes on the same way." 
Sutton agreed that Kansas, which missed easy shots and was a miserable 11-for-21 from the foul line, had a tough game. 
"They didn't have the best of nights. l don't know if that was due to us or just great players having off nights," he said. ''I'll bet you they regroup." 
Kansas got 22 points from freshman Darrell Arthur. Julian Wright, a preseason favorite for Big 12 player of the year, blew layups on two consecutive pos­sessions as Kansas tried vainly to regain the lead in the second half. 
No. 22 Kentucky 57, Miami (Ohio) 46 
Kentucky found a way to win -plus a young, bona fide shot­blocker in the process. 
Freshman forward Perry Stevenson swattod seven shots and No. 22 Kentucky scored the final 10 points of the game to pull away from Miami of Ohio Wednesday night in its season opener. 
"lie gave us what we need­ed," forward Bobby Perry said of the 6-foot-9 freshman. ''I've seen him block shots and play the way he did tonight all of the time." 

Despite Stevenson's play, things got uncomfortable for the Wildcats late. Two free throws by Nathan Peavy cut the Kentucky edge to 47-46 with four minutes left -leaving the Hupp Arena crowd a little nerv­ous. 
"You always have that going through your mind," said junior Hamel Bradley, who made his first career regular season start at point guard. 'This is college basketball and a lot of crazy things happen." 
But Bradley hit a jumper in traffic and Handolph Morris made two free throws, then scored from the post to stretch it back to a seven-point deficit. 
"We'll learn a lot from this game," Kentucky coach Tubby Smith said. 
Joe Crawford led the Wildcats with 18 points. Mon·is added a double-double with 12 points and 10 rebounds, all on defense. 
No. 2 North Carolina 73, Winthrop 66 

North Carolina eoach Roy Williams finally saw what he was looking for from the Tar Heels in the seeond half Wednesday night against Winthrop. 
Tyler Hansbrough had 20 points and 10 rebounds, and No. 2 North Carolina rallied to beat Winthrop in the NIT Season Tip-Off. 
"When somebody hits you, you have a decision to make," Williams said. "We have to have some toughness and we had no toughness in the first half." 
Wayne Ellington added 13 points and Brandan Wright scored 12 for the Tar Heels, who overcame 25 points from the Eagles' Torrell Martin to advance to the semifinals next week in New York against the winner of a late game Wednesday between Gonzaga and Baylor. 
Williams watched in disbelief in the first half as Winthrop hit open 3-pointers, grabbed nearly every loose ball and built a 12­point lead. "We were walking around letting people kick our butts and it wasn't making any difference to us," Williams said. "It was a sorry attitude we had at that point." 
North Carolina (2-0). down nine with under 17 minutes to play, went to their highly regarded freshmen class to come back. 
Ellington's back-to-hack buck­ets inside and Ty Lawson's 3­pointer in a 9-0 run tied it at 45. 
Thursday, November 16, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Girardi, Leyland named game's top managers 
Skippers both piloted young teams to good records, turnarounds 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Sometime soon, Joe Girardi will go looking for another job in a major league dugout. And when he does, he'll have a Manager of the Year award at the top of his resume. 
Six weeks after he was fired by Florida, Girardi won the NL honor Wednesday for keeping the rookie-laden Marlins in con­tention nearly all season. Jim Leyland took the AL award after a quick turnaround with the Detroit Tigers. 
A rookie skipper himself, Girardi beat out Willie Randolph of the New York Mets by a comfortable margin to become the first Manager of the Year with a losing record. 
"I don't know if vindication is a good word, just because as a manager, you want to manage," Girardi said. 
He received 18 of 3 2 first­place votes and totaled 111 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. Randolph got eight first-place votes and 81 points. 
"It's nice that people who watch the game every day understood what we accom­plished," Girardi said, adding he wasn't particularly surprised to win. "We had a lot of good things happen." 
Leyland turned around the long-moribund Tigers in his first year with the team, leading them to the World Series and their first winning season since 1993. He received 19 of 28 first­place votes and 118 points to top Minnesota's Ron Gardenhire, who was listed first on nine ballots and totaled 93 points. 
"I knew that we had some­thing here. I thought it would take longer than it did. This team started believing," Leyland said. "We had good players going into spring train­ing, but we didn't have a very good team. We made ourselves a good team and that's some­thing I'm very proud of." 
Playing 22 rookies, Girardi guided the Marlins to a 78-84 finish and had them in the play­off race until a late-September fade -a surprisingly competi­tive performance for a team that was expected to lose at least 100 games. 
Florida had a $15 million opening day payroll, the lowest in the major leagues by more than $20 million. 
Still, he was fired two days after the season ended follow­ing a rift with owner Jeffrey Loria. Girardi has since agreed to rejoin the New York Yankees' broadcast booth, rather than seek another managing job. 
"I don't believe in this case perception is reality," he said. "I 
wanted it to work out but it 
never got worked out, for what­
ever reason.... We move on to 
bigger and better things." 
After the announcement, the 
Marlins were ready with a 
statement. 
"We are pleased for Joe and 
we wish him well," the team 
said. 
Girardi, who succeeded 
Randolph as Joe Torre's bench 
coach with the Yankees in 2005, 
is the second Manager of the 
Year to be fired that year. The 
other was Baltimore's Davey 
Johnson, the AL winner in 
1997. 
"To rehash that, I don't think that does anyone any good," Girardi said. "Obviously, I'm not there, and I don't know how they feel about it. A manager ·wants to manage. I didn't want 
to leave Florida." 
Girardi was interested in the 
opening with his hometown 
Chicago Cubs, but they hired 
Lou Piniella this offseason. The 
former catcher also interviewed 
with the Washington Nationals, 
but pulled out of the running 
before they chose Manny Acta. 
"There's no secret to what I'm 
looking for. I really want to 
manage again because I love 
it," Girardi said. "It has to be 
right not only for me, but for my 
family.... I believe my opportu­
nity will come again." 
The 61-year-old Leyland 
appears firmly entrenched in 
Motown after winning his third 
Manager of the Year award. 
~ t~ v~ ~ f. Uwy~r . 
C~ief o,eratinl Officer, Rolls-Royce ln~iaiapolis · 
Aerospace.;Juttiu~-e~ge Tec~n,. Gut-wrenc~ing Negotiations ... ACareer Worthlavmg 
fr·i d·a·y,..·.·.N•·ov e··llbtr.• ml·•· 
12:50 to1:40 p,l~ 

DeBartolaAu~itotium,Hoo11.l 01···· 


page 18 
NHL 

Pens' Malkin to stay in America 
Judge clears Russian forward to remain in NHL after dispute 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Evgeni Malkin was cleared to stay with the Pittsburgh Penguins after a fed­eral judge denied a demand by his former Russian club that he be yanked from the NHL. 
Metallurg Magnitogorsk, a Russian Super League team, claims that Malkin is under contract in his native country. The club sought a preliminary injunction that would have banned the forward from play­ing for the Penguins until the matter is resolved. 
But the ruling Wednesday by 
U.S. District Judge Loretta A. Preska clears the way for Malkin, a star rookie with Penguins, and minor leaguers Andrei Taratukhin of the Calgary Flames and Alexei Mikhnov of the Edmonton Oilers to stick with the NHL franchises. 
Led by Metallurg Magnitogorsk, Russian clubs sued in October claiming that the NHL broke U.S. antitrust law and improperly interfered in their business affairs by sign­ing away players who were still under contract. 
The deal with the International Ice Hockey Federation calls for the NHL to pay a $200,000 fee when it signs European players, but Russian hockey officials declined to sign the agreement on the grounds that they were unfairly compensated for top talent. 
Since then, the world's two top hockey leagues have been at odds. 
In August, the NHL told its clubs they were free to sign contracts with Russian hockey players already under contract. 
Malkin, 20, had just signed a one-year contract with 
READY TO POUNCE 

Metallurg Magnitogorsk when he abruptly left camp to join the Penguins this fall. 
In retaliation, the Russian elubs asked the U.S. courts to issue an injunction benching the players in North Ameriea and returning them to their old teams. 
Preska ruled that the Russians hadn't met the stan­dard for a preliminary injunc­tion. To do so, she said, they would have had to prove that the players' absence from the Russian league was causing their former teams irreparable harm. 
The courts have generally found that the loss of a star ath­lete can indeed constitute such a harm, but Preska said that in this ease, the Russian clubs appeared to be more concerned with wresting larger player transfer fees from the NHL than maintaining their competitive­ness. 
"These cases were always about money," Preska said. "The only issue is how much." 
The ruling doesn't stop the case for good, but all but ensures that Malkin, Taratukhin and Mikhnov will remain with their NIIL teams. 
"Obviously we are very disap­pointed," said Alexander Berkovich, the attorney for the Russian clubs. 
He rejected the notion that the dispute was all about money. 
"They need the best players," he said, "Regrettably, it's not going to happen in this case." 
NHL deputy commissioner Bill Daly said in a written statement that he hoped the ruling would persuade the Russian clubs to "discontinue their strategy of litigation," and engage in "good faith negotiations" about the future system for player trans­fers. 
In the absence of an agree­ment, the NHL has maintained that Russian labor law allows players there to quit with two weeks notice. 

ALLISON AMBROSE/ The Observer Irish point guard Kyle McAiarney focuses during Notre Dame's 92-49 victory over IFPW Nov. 10. 
Thursday, November 16, 2006 Thursday, November 16, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Hornets win 100-99 on last-second free throw 
with a minute left. Wednesday night. 
Rookie Armstrong 
Bobby Jackson fouled Billups, "I thought our defensive effort helps New Orleans and his pair from the line gave was great," Knicks coach Isiah the Pistons the lead, but Thomas said. "That's the kindbeat Pistons in Detroit Rasheed Wallace fouled Paul of basketball that we have to 
with 42 seconds to play. play." Paul made both shots, tying Quentin Richardson made five 
Associated Press the game at 99. 3-pointers and added 17 points AUBURN IIILLS, Mich. -Wallace missed a 3-pointer, and Stephon Marbury scored 16 Rookie Hilton Armstrong made and Paul found Armstrong for the Knicks, who won for the a free throw with 3 seconds left, under the basket, where he was first time this season at then got a key offensive fouled by Richard Hamilton. Madison Square Garden and rebound to help the New The Hornets didn't play much snapped a three-game losing Orleans Hornets beat the defense in the first half, allow­streak. Detroit Pistons 100-99 on ing the Pistons to shoot 55.6 They did it in surprising fash­Wednesday night. percent from the floor, but it ion, smothering the league's With the score tied at 99, didn't really matter. New highest-scoring team with the Armstrong made the first of two Orleans hit 50 percent of its kind of defensive effort that had free throws to put the Hornets own shots, outrebounded been missing all season. New ahead. He missed the second, Detroit 20-15 and only commit­York was allowing 105.6 points, but got his own rebound and ted one turnover. second worst in the league, and batted it to midcourt as time That, combined with 14 hadn't held an opponent below expired. points from Armstrong, was 100 in any of its first eight Chris Paul had 20 points and enough to give the Hornets a games. 13 assists for New Orleans, 60-49 lead at the intermission. But the Knicks shut down while Armstrong, who had The Pistons rallied early in Arenas and held the Wizards to never scored an NBA point the third and pulled within 66-a season-worst 31.5 percent before Wednesday, finished with 62 on Hamilton's 3-pointer mid­shooting while leading nearly 17 and nine rebounds. way through the quarter. all the way. Washington was 0­Chauncey Billups led all scor­of-15 from 3-point range ­ers with 29 points, while Knicks 102, Wizards 82 tying an NBA record for futility Richard Hamilton added 23. It had all the makings of a -with Arenas missing all The Pistons missed all six 3-mismatch: The NBA's highest­seven of his attempts. pointers in the first-half, but got scoring team against one that "For the way we approach the rolling from behind the line in hadn't stopped anybody. game, I thought that mostly the boards the fourth quarter -of 15 Bobcats points and the second half. Hamilton hit And it sure was -but it was mental aspect of it, we lost it," while teaming with Balkman Charlotte built a six-point lead. two key 3-pointers in the third, Gilbert Arenas and crew who Wizards coach Eddie Jordan and Nate Robinson to spark a But after the hot start, and Detroit knocked down three never had a chance. said. "We didn't think about strong bench effort that allowed Morrison missed his next four in just over a minute of the Rookie Renaldo Balkman surviving some adversity and the Knicks to simply outwork shots. fourth quarter to take an 89-86 scored a season-high 18 points, saying to ourselves, 'Let's get the Wizards. Morrison started the season lead. and the New York Knicks used through some tough times, "Me, Nate, Jamal (Crawford), shooting 10-of-43 (23 percent), The teams traded the lead for their best defensive perform­missed shots."' Lee, that's all we do," Balkman but has gone 21-for-41 the past the next several possessions, ance of the season to beat the David Lee had 10 points and said. 'The second team, we try two nights in Oklahoma City and the game was tied at 97 Washington Wizards 15 rebounds -10 of those to go out there and run every­and San Antonio. body, tire the other team." After the Spurs won the previ­Arenas finished with 22 ous night in a big effort to over­points but was only 5-of-19 come a 19-point second-half from the floor. Antawn Jamison deficit, San Antonio coach added 20 and Caron Butler Gregg Popovich already had scored 18 on 4-of-11 shooting. pulled four of his starters with 
4:24 before the end of the first Bobcats 95, Spurs 92 (OT) quarter. 
Adam Morrison scored 27 points, surpassing his career Cavaliers 100, Blazers 87 high established just one night LeBron James displayed his earlier, as the Charlotte Bobcats usual dominance and got the beat the San Antonio Spurs in rest of the Cleveland Cavaliers overtime Wednesday night. playing that way too. 
Emeka Okafor added 19 James had 32 points, seven points for Charlotte (2-6), which assists and seven rebounds to had lost four straight. It was the help the Cleveland Cavaliers first victory over the Spurs in win their fourth straight game Bobcats franchise history after with a victory over the Portland four previous tries. Trail Blazers on Wednesday 
Morrison, a rookie from night. Gonzaga, scored 21 points "He looked like the All-Star, Tuesday in Oklahoma City. the Olympian that he is right 
Tony Parker scored 25 points now," Trail Blazers coach Nate and Tim Duncan added 24 for McMillan said. the Spurs (6-2), who had won "He got everyone involved in five straight games. the first half and took over the 
San Antonio could have tied game in the second. He just the game with 29 seconds left in overpowered us." overtime, but Manu Ginobili So did his teammates, who missed a wide-open 3-pointer. have taken some of the burden 
Charlotte rebounded and got off their superstar this season. the ball in the hands of The Cavaliers have started the Raymond Felton, and the Spurs season 6-2 for the second fouled him to stop the clock straight year -a first for the with 16 seconds. franchise -and own the best 
Felton sank the first foul shot record in the Eastern but missed the second. Okafor Conference. rebounded and slammed the Cleveland has been dominant, ball back in to give the Bobcats outrebounding its opponents in a 95-89 lead. all eight games and shooting 48 
Both teams had a chance to percent over the winning win the game at the end of reg­streak. ulation, but Brevin Knight The Cavaliers trailed only missed an 18-footer that briefly in the second quarter Ginobili rebounded and pushed and led by as many as 20 late in up the floor. the third as they easily handled 
Ginobili passed to Michael the injury riddled Trail Blazers, Finley, who missed a 3-pointr at who looked tired after losing the buzzer. Tuesday night at Minnesota. 
It was the third start of the James didn't take a shot in season for Morrison. He hit six the first quarter, then led of his first seven shots in the Cleveland on a 10-0 run in the opening quarter while the rest third that put Portland away. He of the Bobcats shot 3-of-15 to showed his versatility, hitting a start the game. running jumper, a three-point 
During a stretch of 6:08 in the play and a 3-pointer during the first quarter Morrison scored 13 run. 


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 16, 2006 
NBA 

Martin w-ill llliss rest of season with injury 
Damage to forward's knee 'more significant' than originally thought 
Associated Press 
DENVER -Nuggets forward Kenyon Martin will miss the rest of the season because of a bad right knee. 
Martin had arthroscopic sur­gery Wednesday, and the team said the operation "revealed more significant damage" than originally thought. 
Martin has five years and more than $66 million left on his contract. He played in two games this season, 

"It's very difficult to lose
averaging 9.5 how or when points and 10 him. He's been a leader and he hurt his rebounds. right knee but
he sets the tone with his 
T h e was hoping to
aggressive play and
Nuggets miss only one played at personality." or two Orlando on months, not Wednesday the whole
Eduardo Najera
night. year.
Nuggets guard 
"I just The Nuggets 
declared himself healthy for the first time since undergoing microfracture surgery on his left knee 18 months ago. 
He was taped up and ready to play against the New York Knicks on Nov. 8 when a team doctor went into the locker room minutes before tip-off and sent him for tests on his swollen right knee. 
"Right now I'm at a loss for words, you know what I'm say­ing? I worked my butt off in training camp. For this to hap­pen now, I'm down in the dumps," Martin told The Associated Press that night after an MRI revealed another 
surgery was 
necessary. 

Martin said 
he had no idea 
found out." Nuggets play­er personnel director Mark Warkentien told The Associated Press from Belgrade, Serbia, where he was wrapping up a scouting trip. ''I'm still taken aback a little bit and I'll talk to my guys in the morning and assess where we're at." 
Martin was limited to a career-low 56 games last sea­son after surgery on his left knee. He was suspended in the playoffs for his tirade at the coaching staff after his playing time was held down against the Los Angeles Clippers. 
He and coach George Karl patched up their relationship, and after training camp Martin bolstered their 

front court in 
the offseason with the addition of Joe Smith and Reggie Evans, to go along with the return of Nene. 
Eduardo Najera said last week that the Nuggets would miss Martin's powerful pres­ence. 
"It's very difficult to lose him. He's been a leader and he sets the tone with his aggressive play and personality," Najera said. "It will take some time for us to adjust.... We all have a chance to get more minutes. Joe hasn't played that many min­utes, and Evans hasn't either. I think that Martin is irreplace­able, but combined, all our big guys can do a pretty good job." 
MLB 
GMs consider using replay 
Blue Jays near deal with Thomas; Mets and Padres agree to trade 
Associated Press 
NAPLES, Fla. -When it comes to instant replay, base­ball general managers want to look it over. 
GMs plan to talk about the topic some more, and perhaps make recommendations in the future, even they know com­missioner Bud Selig is against the having replays aid umpires' decisions. 
"There is sutlicient interest in it that it really warrants fur­ther discussion," baseball sen­ior vice president Joe Garagiola Jr. said Wednesday at the GMs' annual meetings. "There's no specific action item at the moment. We just want to keep talking about the different ways it could come into play and just keep kind of refining our thinking on the topie." 
GMs have repeatedly dis­cussed the topic but know replays an~n't likely to be used while Selig is in charge. Two years ago, GMs split 15-15 on a vote to further consider the use of instant replay. 
"The commissioner's views on instant replay are well known but I also know he respects the body here," Garagiola said. "So it's an important topic to continue to discuss." 
Chicago Cubs manager Lou Piniella, whose been known to speak his mind to umpires, doesn't think there's a need for replays. 
"Umpires do a really nice job," he said. "I think that's the way baseball has been played since inception. I don't see any reason to change it." 
On the third day of the four­day session: 
+ Toronto neared agreement on a two-year contract with designated hitter Frank Thomas. 
+ The New York Mets traded 
Flat Screen TVs
1/zu.tJd.a,J I 
in every booth I
Korooke 9 pm -1 om NFL Sundoy Ticket 
#l

® =.-.::·
,.~ ::.

i."it,~ Sports Bor
'' 
v \· 
SPORTS BAR 

t?anz.p~ ._S7.h.o-ppt2~ • ._S7o-u~h L'l12nd 
vvvvvv.BetvveentheBuns.com 
CSTUDENTS ToT. 
relievers Heath Bell and Royce Ring to the San Diego Padres for outfielder Ben Johnson and right-hander Jon Adkins. 
+The New York Yankees declined Mike Mussina's $17 million option but neared agreement on a two-year con­tract with the right-hander that would be worth about $23 mil­lion. 
+ 
Baltimore neared agree­ment with pitcher Jamie Walker on a three-year con­tract worth about $11 million. 

+ 
Tampa Bay won the rights to Japanese third baseman Akinori Iwamura when the Devil Hays' bid of about $4.5 million was accepted by the Yakult Swallows. 

+ 
The Chicago Cubs agreed to a $5.25 million, two-year contract with backup catcher Henry Blanco. 

+ 
Philadelphia reached a preliminary agreement on a two-year contract with third baseman Wes Ilelms. 


While big-names clients are being discussed with teams in this early stage of free agency -players such as Alfonso Soriano and Barry Zito -no deals appear close. 
GMs did approve several changes. Starting next year, a team can change its postseason roster up until 10 a.m. on the day its lirst game is played, not when it is scheduled. That came in response to the post­ponement of the NL champi­onship series opener between the Mets and Cardinals. 
Starting next year, tie games will be a thing of the past -if a regulation game is tied when stopped by rain, and it will be suspended and resumed at the point where it was interrupted. That change was approved last year but not ratified by the players' assoeiation, which can delay rules modifications for one year but can't block them. 
GMs didn't approve a propos­al to have games suspended that were not yet regulation ­in other words, if there is a rainout after two innings, the game still will be wiped out and replayed from the start. 
In a rule change that must be approved by owners and the union, umpires proposed that weekends count for waivers during spring training. 
Baseball also revealed a number of statistics on umpires. The Questec comput­er system, used in 11 ball­parks, said 94.91 percent of ball-strike calls were correct, up from 94.20 percent in 2005. That represents a decline from 
8.65 to 7.64 missed pitches per game. 
Ejections dropped from 227 to 218 this year, and warnings fell from 79 to 68. There were 30 hit batters after warnings, of which 12 pitchers were ejected. 
r-----------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, November 16, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Guilds 
continued from page 24 
h.
Im. " 
When Condra found out Van Guilder had shared the tape with everyone that would watch, he started to return fire. 
"He's so funny," Condra jok­ingly yelled. "He's the funniest guy on the team ... funniest guy." 
But whether Van Guilder is the funniest guy on the team or not, the junior from Minnesota is leading the No. 5 Irish in goals (eight), points (14) and shot per­centage (.333). That's a big step for a player who said he received no offers from major schools until Irish assistant coach Andy Slaggert stumbled upon him through junior defenseman Luke Lucyk, who is now spending a year back in juniors before returning to Notre Dame. 
"First of all, I wasn't very good -so there weren't too many choices [of schools]," Van Guilder said. "I owe a lot to Luke Lucyk, who was already com­mitted to come here. Coach Slaggert came to watch him play, and I was playing with Lucyk at Tri-City [Storm of the United State Hockey League) and I was playing pretty well. He saw me play and I had a pretty good game." 
And this season, a year after being named the team's most improved player and finishing the season third on the Irish in scoring, Van Guilder has been the biggest offensive threat, tying his goal total from all of 2005-06 for the 8-1-1 Irish. Seven of his eight goals last year carne on special teams -six on the power play and one short­handed, but he has only one power play goal this season. 
"A big emphasis from the coaches this summer was for me being more aggressive, especial­ly on five-on-five," Van Guilder said. "I didn't score as much five-on-five last year, it was mostly power play." 
Irish associate head coach Paul Pooley said Van Guilder put the work in over the summer, using the early morning hours to improve and evolving into a sup­porting leader behind the cap­tains and seniors. 
"He's always had it," Pooley said of Van Guilder's scoring touch. "I think he's just shooting more. He has a good shot -he scored a great goal against Boston College. He rolled it up on the power play and ripped it top shelf. And I think that's one of the things about scoring -is when they shoot the puck and score, it gives them more confi­dence to continue to do it." 
Van Guilder has clicked well with his linemates -senior left wing and 2005-06 leading Irish goal-scorer Josh Sciba, and sen­ior right wing and captain T.J. Jindra. 
"T.J. plays more of an up-and­down game, where he's more defensive-minded," Sciba said. "But Van Guilder and I have a little more tendency toward offense, and I think that we feed off each other. Van Guilder's ere­ative down low, and I'm able to open up and let him make that pass to me, try to finish my chances. So I think that we all add something to that line." 
Part of Van Guilder's success and his evolution from barely­scouted recruit to offensive pow­erhouse on one of the nation's top-ranked teams can be credit­ed to his ability to stay healthy. He holds the record for most consecutive games played by an active.Irish player with 84. 
"It's kind of being blessed, just not getting bad injuries -little nicks, bumps and bruises every­where," Van Guilder said. "Our trainer [Kevin Ricks) comes up with some interesting pads we slap around our ankles or wher­ever we need them. He does a great job of keeping us on the ice." 
And Van Guilder will continue to be on the ice this Friday at the Joyce Center for the CCHA grudge match with No. 4 Michigan State. Although he said this is a big game, he gets anxious every week for Friday to come -especially on Sunday when the game is farthest away. 
"Hopefully we'll have a lot big­ger ones later in this season, but this is huge right now," he said. "We're going to see where we are at, because this is one of the top teams in the country." 
By the time it reaches game­day, Van Guilder said he cannot wait to play and likes to get to the rink "quite early." He has a detailed pre-game routine of taping and waxing his stick. 
"I [start) on the heel -not all the way down the heel, a little bit off -[go) all the way down over the toe, cut it off with the scissors then soft wax over the whole thing. 

"[The tape's) always white. Danglers use white tape, that's what my high school coach told me." 
If the colored wax he chose doesn't work in the first period, he'll change it over during the intermission. But if that still doesn't work? 
"That's when you just have to battle and make something hap­pen with the color wax you got," he said with a laugh. 
Van Guilder will face one of his toughest tests of the year this weekend, going up against Spartans goaltender Jeff Lerg ­last year's CCHA rookie of the year and tournament MVP. In the meantime, however, Van Guilder and the Irish will try to keep loose and maybe show a few more Condra highlight reels. 
When asked if he had any favorite moments in his time with the Irish, he started laugh­ing. 
"I think it may have happened 10 minutes ago, watching film of Erik Condra," he said with a smile. "We have a blast." 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
tally prepared right now, senior guard Breona Gray
Lions 
said. "We had a good prac­tice, we're going to go outcontinued from page 24 
there today and have another men making their first road practice before we go to bed trip. Barlow is third on the tonight." team in scoring with 13 Notre Dame also recognizes points per game, while how tough a team Penn State Williamson averaged five has been this season. Even points and five rebounds in though the Lady Lions are her first two col-coming off a 13-16 lege games, while season -their
"Any team we play
filling in for sen­first losing season ior Melissa is going to be in the program's D'Amico. tough, and that's history -they Although have won their
how we've got to
Lechlitner has first three games. 
been contained look at everybody. Penn State is led offensively, she We're going to be offensively by jun­has been consis­ior guard Kamela
ready."

tent substituting Gissendanner with for Gaines at the 14.7 points per point so far this Tulyah Gaines game, and senior year. Irish guard forward Amanda 
"I expected Brown, who has Ashley [Barlow) would be averaged a double-double so that kind of player down the far with 11.0 points per game stretch," said Irish coach and 11.7 rebounds per game. Muffet McGraw. "I think "They're going to be tough," Melissa Lechlitner will be the Gaines said. "Any team we same." play is going to be tough, and 
The Irish realize they can­that's how we've got to look not focus on the past, howev­at everybody. We're going to er, and say their practices be ready." have them ready to take on the Lady Lions. Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at 
"I think we are very men-jfitzpa6@nd.edu 
a crucial member of the serv­parts of the country." ing game. Just this year, the team has
Herndon 
Since her entrance, the pro­traveled to eight different gram has seen great success states and Washington D.C. ­
continued from page 24 
in lowering the number of going as far as Hawaii, team captains, along with jun­service aces allowed by the Arizona and Herndon's home ior Adrianna Stasiuk. Irish. Prior to the 2003 sea­state of Florida. 
"Being picked to be a leader son, the record for lowest "We've been traveling a lot for the team this year, being average service aces given up -I think we've traveled more picked by other people for per game during a season was this year than during any that position, was an honor 1.11. other season," Herndon said. for me," Herndon said. "It's By 2005, Herndon helped "Those are the times that something that I take pride in the Irish bring that average have been the hardest, but and really appreciate. It is down as far as .80. also the most fun for us." important for the team, On the other end of the But it is her bonds with her because we really don't have serve, the 2005 team was sec­teammates that she has most a lot of upperclassmen." ond in Irish history for service enjoyed. 
As a freshman, she led the ace-to-error ratio, holding it "It's been really fun to be in Irish in digs in several match­at .758. This achievement was the locker room with the es, notching as many as 20 due in large part to Herndon's team," she said. "Everyone against South Carolina. This leading performance with a has great personalities, and year, she has led the Irish in 1.88 service ace-to-error we get along really well." the category 22 times, rank­ratio. During the past three sea­ing her third all-time in Irish This year, she has gotten the sons, Herndon has helped history. job done as the go-to defen­advance her team to the 
This season she has put sive player and has helped to NCAA Tournament three con­together 466 total digs -hold opponents to an average secutive times, even seeing Notre Dame's fifth best for a hitting percentage of .186. the team advance as far as single season -with a sea­Although she has given a lot the Sweet Sixteen in 2005. son-high 29 in a five-game to the team, Herndon said her And this weekend, she will match against Missouri. experience with the Irish has lead her young team into the Danielle is fourth in the Big given her a lot as well. Big East tournament in an East, putting up 5.01 digs per "The most important experi­effort to clinch one more game. ence for me," she said, "has NCAA Tournament appear­
As a player, Herndon has been the relationships I've ance. been an important part of the made and the places we've Notre Dame defensive unit for traveled to, being able to see Contact Devin Preston at the past four years, as well as different places and different dpresto 1 @nd.edu 

.----------------------­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 16, 2006 
Lapira 
continued from page 24 
he finished it. That's what a big time player does." 
The play started just two minutes before halftime when sophomore forward Bright Dike received a pass at the top of the box. With his back to the goal, Dike flicked the ball into the path of an onrushing Lapira, who outran his defender to the ball and -despite shooting from almost at the end line ­buried a low shot in the far corner of the net. 
"I don't how that shot went in," Lapira said. "I didn't have much of an angle. I think I got a little bit lucky." 
The Irish were fortunate the score was still tied at zero when Lapira scored his goal. Notre Dame, playing its first game in 18 days, was clearly outplayed by the Flames in the first 10 minutes of the game. 
Only three minutes in, Illinois-Chicago midfielder Baggio Husidic ripped a shot off a cross, which rebounded back off the Irish crossbar. Two minutes later, Flames forward Eric Cervantes unleashed from 25 yards and appeared to have Notre Dame keeper Chris Cahill beat -but the shot sailed just wide of the goal. 
"Maybe that was your answer," said Irish coach Bobby Clark, referring to whether Notre Dame would be rusty after the long layoff. "We hadn't played a game for 18 days, and it took the boys about 10 minutes to adjust to the pace of the game." 
After weathering the initial 

storm from Illinois-Chicago, Notre Dame proceeded to rain down shots on Flames keeper Jovan Bubonja. In the 20th minute, senior forward Justin McGeeney received a through ball from midfielder Ian Etherington, putting him in on the keeper, but his shot was deflected out for a corner kick by Bubonja. 
Four minutes later, senior midfielder Nate Norman thought he had opened the scoring, bending a low shot toward the corner of the net, but a diving Bubonja again denied the Irish. 
"They won the battle for the first 10 minutes, but after that we quickly got our act together and started taking control of the game," senior co-captain Greg Dalby said. "We created a lot of chances after those first 10 minutes." 
On the evening, Notre Dame out-shot Illinois-Chicago 18 to nine -a high number of chances given the rainy condi­tions. As the game progressed, the field became more and more of a mess, with players struggling to keep their footing. 
"In these conditions, that was a superb game," Clark said. "There was only one goal, but there were quite a few chances. [Illinois-Chicagol maybe didn't have great chances, but they got close enough to make my heart skip a few beats." 
With their win, the Irish will advance to play at No. 7 Maryland -last year's NCAA champion -who dispatched St. John's 2-0 Wednesday. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
Chicago to take the first four finalists for the Missouri shots and keep the ball in Athletic Club Hermann
History 
the Irish zone for most of the Trophy, which is presented opening 10 minutes, the annually to the top college
continued from page 24 
Irish rebounded and out-shot soccer player in the nation. to another early postseason the Flames 18-4 the rest of Notre Dame has already exit. the way. made its deepest postseason 
In the first 10 minutes­In the game's final 80 min­run ever, and it is built to when the Irish have general­utes, senior goal-make a deeper ly played sharp soccer all keeper Chris run still. season-Notre Dame got Cahill was never "There's no easy While out to a sloppy start in even seriously chal­Wednesday's win
games in the 
sloppier conditions. The lenged, though was momentous,
round ofJ2, and
Flames pushed the tempo the Flames had the Irish now have early, and the first four shots enough good runs there's fewer easy the chance to were aimed at the Irish goal. to keep those who games in the advance into 
Irish coach Bobby Clark braved the weath­"best-Irish-team­
round of16."
attributed the slow start to er -including ever" territory. the fact that the Irish were Clark -on the On Saturday, likely a little rusty after not edge of their Bobby Clark Notre Dame will playing a competitive game seats. Irish coach travel to College for nearly three weeks. "They got close Park, Md., to take 
After playing like they enough to make my heart on the No. 7 Terrapins. Last were headed for another skip a couple of beats," he season, Maryland won the early exit from the NCAA said. national championship, and Tournament, the Irish quick­Now that the Irish have it has been one of the top ly turned the momentum completely re-sharpened the teams again this year. around. competitive edge that may "There's no easy games in 
Striker Joseph Lapira, have dulled a bit in the long the round of 32, and there's whose national-best 21st recess, each day from now even fewer easy games in goal was the dif-until their final the round of 16," Clark said. ference maker in game is a historic "We're very aware of the the 1-0 match, one. enormity of the task." didn't agree that "They got close All season, Very aware, because the time off was Notre Dame has Saturday's game presents
enough to make my
responsible for had the tools to the Irish with an opportunity
heart skip a couple
the lackluster be an elite soccer to do much more than start. He did say, ofbeats." team. In almost advance to the next round of however, that the all of its matches, the tournament. Irish turned it it has played like This year's edition of the
Bobby Clark 
around sometime one. Irish is already a historic
Irish coach 
soon after the Coming into team, but if they pull out the 11th minute Wednesday's victory in College Park ­began. game, the Irish people will realize it. 
"I don't know what were tied for 13th in the changed, but we just started nation in goals per game. The views expressed in this getting our composure and Lapira and senior midfielder column are those ofthe playing our game," he said. Greg Dalby were both named author and not necessarily "That's when we started to Big East player of the year at those of The Observer. get some success." their respective positions, Contact Eric Retter at 
After allowing Illinois-and both made the list of 15 eretter@nd. edu 

NOVEMBER 13-17-UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME lEW SPONSORS Office of the President; Office of International Studies; Office of the Dean, College of Ar1s and letters; Office of the Dean, Mendoza College of Business; Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies; Kellogg Institute for International Studies; Nanovic Institute for European Studies; Campus Ministries; Department of Film, Theatre & Television; Career Center; Department of East Asian languages & literatures; Department of Romance languages and literatures; Department of German & Russian; International Student Services & Activities; Center for Social Concerns; Asian American Society; Fischer-O'Hara Grace Residences; Caribbean Working Group; Mendoza College of Business; Notre Dame Food Services; DeBartolo Performing Ar1s Center; Student International Business Council; Joan B. Kroc Institute for lnte rnational Peace Studies; Department of Africana Studies; Department of History; Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies along with Student Residence Halls and Cultural Clubs, and Student Government 
THURSDAY,NOVEMBER16 
Nanovic Institute Film Series: Terrorism: Perspectives from European Cinema Some Mother's Son (Ireland, 1996); Directed by Terry George 7pm and 10pm; Browning Cinema, DPAC More Information: http://www.nd.edu/-nanovic/events/films.html 
ISSA•s International Women•s Club International Dance Lesson 3:30pm; University Village Community Center 
F and J Visa Applications: Tips for Success Open to all students, faculty and staff 4pm; LaFortune Student Center, Foster Room 
ALL WEEK: FAIRLY· TRADED GIFTS EVENT continu~ featuring handcrafts from developing countries prcxtuced for Ten Thousand Villages 
Monday-Thursday, 1Oam-4pm; Dooley Room, First Floor LaFortune AND Friday, 1Oam-4pm; Atrium, Mendoza College of Business 
FOR FULL CALENDAR OF EVENTS: www.nd.edu/-issa/IEW.htm 

----l 
Thursday, November 16, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

ALEC WHITE
JOCULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LUTEL 
j
rii­

©2006 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
YIKTT 
(IJ
tYENKOD j 


WHEN THE AGING 

PUNTER WA? www.jumble.com I<ELEA?ED, HE--­
IJ r
tCORCUN j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J rI I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

kr I I I I I J'O"( I I I J" 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: LINEN ADULT GLOBAL EFFIGY Answer: How she reacted when she joined the singing club -"GLEE"-FULLY 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~..,.,~ 
-,.,.+~:=+.::-l 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
64 Late-fall door adornment 66 Lexington and others, in N.Y.C. 67 Manuscript marks 68 Margarine 69 Musical sign 70 Napoleon relatives 
71 No longer standing, as a tree 
DOWN 1 "Nozze di Figaro" part for Dr. Bartolo 2 Opera villainess, typically 3 Option at a butcher's, maybe 4 "Over my dead body!" 5 Patient's dosage measure, for 
short 6 Powerful defeat 7 Puzzler's alert: 
the clues in this crossword are all in this 

8 Quarters costing dollars? 9 Quid_quo 10 Quitting 11 Raindrops after freezing 12 Rhinoplasty target 13 Ruiners of some picnics 18 Shellacs 22 Singer Zadora 24 Sticky-fingered types 26 Thoroughbred film of 1983 
WILLSHORTZ 

27 "Three H's" 40 Voting category 55 Xmas tree component in a high school topper yearbook
28 Togetherness 56 xoxoxo 45 Wide receiver alternative
29 Ubiquitous auto 

Lynn of Steelers 
features 58 Yankee's wear 
fame 31 Unique person 60 Yard pest
48 Women with 
33 Unnatural young 'uns 61 Yeasty drink 62 Zero
34 Very big name in 52 Workshop owner home-selling of note 64 Zion's tail? 
37 Voltaic 54 Xerox competitor 65 Zoo animal 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _____________ State _______ Zip___________ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Zena Grey, 18; Beverly D'Angelo, 55; Sam Waterston, 66; Petula Clark, 74 ­
Happy Birthday: Make sure that you get things straight and in writing this year to avoid 
setbacks. Adaptability will enable you to stay ahead of anyone trying to slow you down. 
Be proactive. The uncertainties you are feeling can only be cleared up if you do the job 
yourself. Your numbers are 9, 27, 28, 35, 39, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April19.): Get serious about finishing what you start. You can sail through life leaving lots of unfinished business behind you, or you can take today and sort through the debris, leaving you clear to move ahead. 3 stars 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Time will pass you by if you don't seize the moment. Love, business and personal partnerships are all in a high cycle. Make moves that will put you in a good position on all counts. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may be invited out but take a pass and concentrate on a job that needs to be completed. The more you do lo enhance your professional reputation, the further ahead you will get. Someone who has the power to alter your life will, if you leave a good impression. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): The more you do to share your ideas, time and thoughts 
with friends, family or new acquaintances, the richer you will be at the end of the day. 
Unusual infonnation will help you make a decision. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Stick close to home but don't get in anybody's way. Some very 
good ideas will surface if you contemplate some of the goals you have set for yourself. 
1bis isn't the best time to let someone influence you. 4 stars 
VffiGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Everything should be falling into place. A chance to talk over some very crucial matters will clear the air and cheer you up. Love, romance and sharing with someone special must be given ample time. 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Go for interviews, consider what youwould like to do 
professionally or think about your retirement. It's all about change today and preparing 
yourself for it mentally, physically and emotionally. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Do what you say and you will gain respect and approval from someone who counts. Make necessary alterations at home and in your personal life. Don't put up with anyone who gives you a hard time. 4 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll be torn in many different directions. What you want to do may be riddled with obstacles. You have to do things according to the book if you don't want to end up in trouble with authorities. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Be a strong force and take on challenges relentlessly. No one will stand a chance once you set your course of action. A money deal will come through for you if you put on a little pressure. A love connection will be enhanced. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): No matter what happens around you, stay away from trouble. You cannot allow anyone to threaten you and you can't put yourself in harm's way. Today is not about winning, it's about surviving. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Winnings, settlements, contracts, sealing a deal and making personal changes will all turn out favorably for you if you get the ball rolling now. A partnership with someone who is high up on your list will escalate into something very precious. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are very eager to do what's right --a crusader for those less fortunate and a true friend to anyone living by the same value system as you. You are dedicated and relentless in pursuing what you want. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 A Bing Crosby/ Bob Hope film locale 

5 Ache 10 Actress Gershon 14 Baseball's 
Rodriguez 15 Blue, e.g. 16 Bogart was one 17 Challenges 19 Clothing item 
worn over a shirt 20 Coast Guard 
eqi.Jiprnent 21 Definite article 22 Drain 
connections 23 Durnb laugh 25 Elevated, in a 
way 27 Embrace 30 Embryonic 
shape, at first 32 Fighter Marvin 35 Filmdom's 
Merkel 36 Five Nations tribe 
38 Giant role for Peter Fonda, 1997 
39 Girl 41 Graves of "Mission: 
Impossible" 42 Hair salon job 43 He and she in a 
gossip column 44 High-pitched 
warbling sounds 46 Inez's aunt 47 Intense worker 49 Itch reliever 50 James Brown hit 
" Machine" 51 John Reed's predecessor as N.Y.S.E. chairman, 
Richard 53 Just average 55 Kangaroo pocket 
openings 57 Ken Stabler's 
pride 59 Kinds of clouds 63 La or fa 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, November 16, 2006 
page 24 
MEN's SoccER 

History in the making 

On a rainy night in front ofBy GREG ARBOGAST a sparse Alumni Field crowd 
Sporrs Writer 

that was there primarily to support the
Joseph Lapira didn't see 
opposition,much of the ball Wednesday 
No. 12 Notre
night. 
Dame hadIllinois-Chicago made sure of its biggestthat, choosing to man-mark the win in pro­
nation's top scorer for the 
gram histo­
entire match. The one time 
ry.
Lapira did get behind the 
Up until
defense, however, he didn't 
Wednesday,
waste the chance -scoring 
Notre Damethe only goal in Notre Dame's had never1-0 victory over the Flames in advancedthe second round of the NCAA beyond theTournament. 
NCAA"We've seen tape on [Lapira], 

Tournament's second round.
and we knew how good a play­After topping Illinois-Chicagoer he is," Flames coach John 1-0, the Irish are in the

Trask said. "Fair dues to the Sweet 16 for the first time.
Hermann Trophy candidate. He Early on, however. the Irish 

got his one sniff on goal, and JENNIFER KANGil he Observer 
looked like they were headed
Irish senior midfielder Greg Dalby jukes out an Illinois-Chicago defender at Alumni Field during see LAPIRA/page 22 Notre Dame's 1-0 win Wednesday over the Flames in the second round of the NCAA Tournament. see HISTORY/page 22 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish hit the road to Happy Valley to take on Lady Lions 
It will be the fourth ty ready," junior guard Tulyah career highs (21 for Allen and second half we pulled togeth­By JAY FITZPATRICK matchup between the Irish Gaines said. 19 points and 10 boards for er as a team," Gaines said of 
Sports Writer 

and Lady Lions, with Penn Gaines was a key part of the Barlow). Barlow's perform­her teammates against the State taking all four previous Irish win Monday, putting up ance -the first double-dou­Falcons. 
Coming off a big 85-81 meetings. But this year, Notre a career-high 23 points. But ble of hor young career -Along with Barlow, guard overtime Monday over Dame feels it is primed to she wasn't alone in getting proved her a legitimate per­Melissa Lechlitner and center Bowling Green, Notre Dame stay undefeated. 'the Notre Dame victory. former for the Irish early in Erica Williamson are the (2-0) is ready to start its road "We've been preparing Junior Charel Allen and the season. other two Notre Dame fresh-season today at Penn State since the beginning of the freshman Ashley Barlow each "In the first half we still (3-0). season, so I think we're pret-scored in double !"igures for looked very young, and in the see LIONS/page 21 
HOCKEY 

Van Guilder fires jabs at goalies, teammates 

NBA NCAA BASKETBAll 
LLI c.,:) Hornets 100 Kentuc~ 57z Pistons 99 Miami ( hio) 46 
Hilton Armstrong Freshman forward
:3 

= 
nails a free throw with Perry Stevenson scores three seconds left to ice the final 10 points of the 
cc 

the game. game for the Wildcats. 
page 19 page 16
= 

NO VOLLEYBALL 
Herndon anchors defense 
By DEVIN PRESTON Spons Writer 
Over the past four sea­sons, senior Danielle Herndon has been one of the most consistent and dependable players for Notre Dame, working as a libero and defensive special­ist. 
As the team's only fresh­man in 2003, Herndon stepped up to play in every match throughout the sea­son. And this year she is one of three marathon Irish players -joined by sopho­more Justine Stremick and junior setter Ashley Tarutis -who have played in all 93 regular season games. 
Herndon was also picked 
to  be  one  of this season's  HY PHAM!The Observer  
Irish senior libero Danielle Herndon dives for a  dig Oct. 12  
see HERNDON/page 21  against West Virginia. The Irish won the match 3-0.  


NCAA BASKETBALL NCAA BASKETBALL NHL NHL 
North Carolina 73 Oral Roberts 78 Hurricanes 2 Bruins 3 Winthrop 66 Kansas 71 Rangers 1 Capitals 2 
Tyler Hansbrough Marchello Vealy hits Rod Brind'Amour Patrice Bergeron is the scores 20 points and 7-of-8 3-pointers as the scores late in the third to sole goal-scorer in the grabs 10 rebounds to Golden Eagles shock the lift Carolina over New shootout to give the hold on for the win. No.3 Jayhawks. York. Bruins the win. 
page 16 page 16 page 14 page 14 
By KYLE CASSILY Sporrs Writer 
Mark Van Guilder is pretty tal­ented at putting'the puck past goaltenders -and it looks like he's just as good at ripping on his team­
mates. 
The Irish junior center rushed off the ice after practice Wednesday with a couple other Notre 

Dame plaY.ers Van Guilder behind him and headed straight for video coordinator Brad Aldrich and his laptop. 

Van Guilder had Aldrich open up footage from Saturday's win over Bowling Green of sopho­more left wing Erik Condra trip­ping over his own skates. Van Guilder and his small posse couldn't stop laughing as they stood outside the equipment room and dragged in other Irish players coming off the ice to see Condra's figure skating. 
"It's funny because me and Condra, neither of us are really pretty skaters, and we both know it -we both remind each other of it quite often," Van Guilder said. "He had a little incident coming back into the d­zone this weekend, where he almost went face first into the end boards with no one around 
see GUILDS/page 21 




