
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 92 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21.2006 
Dunn named to University post 
Rector replaces Gude in Student Affairs 
By KAITYLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Lyons Hall reetor Sister Susan Dunn has bonn appoint­ed Assistant Vice l'rnsident for Student Afl'airs, University ofli­dals announced Monday. Dunn will hngin performing the duties of her new position .July I -rnplaeing Sister Mary Louise (;ude, who will rntire at tho end of the spring semester. 
Dunn will work under Vice l'rnsidnnt for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman and supervisA the UnivArsity's health, counseling and career centnrs. Poorman said Monday that the sAarch for Gude's 
replacement was "fairly brief" and that Dunn quickly emerged as tho pre­ferred eandi­datc. 
"She is a 

Dunn
splendid leader, a treasured colleague throughout the Student Affairs ollice," Poorman said. "[She is] dedicated to the dual mission 
of the University, aeademic inquiry and personal forma­tion." 
Gude, who has worked at the University for 23 years, said she is confident Dunn has the experience to thrive in her new position. 
"She has an extensive and varied background in student affairs," Gude said. "She's been here long enough that she real­ly knows Notre Dame." 
Both Gude and Dunn are involved with the University Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs -Gude as chair and Dunn as a committee member. 
"[Dunn] will make her own way and figure out what she wants to do as her own per­son," Gude said. "Given her experience, I think she's a very strong person. She has her own ideas about things." 
Dunn said she is eager to begin working with Poorman and the other members of the senior staff. 
"I was honored and humbled to accept the position," Dunn said. "The hardest part is hav­ing to leave Lyons IIall." 
Dunn has served as reetor of Lyons Ball for five years. She works part-time at the Center for Soeial Coneerns 
see DUNN/page 3 

Mooney delivers protnising SMC update 
College president says Saint Mary's is 'more relevant than ever' 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Citing strong leadership development, increased appli­ration numbers and a commit­mont to diversify, Saint Mary's President Carol Mooney gave a larg1~ly upb1~at progress report of tlw College Monday during a press lunehnon in the l'rnsidnnt's Dining Hoorn of tho Studnnt Cnntnr. 
Af'tnr assuming tlw presiden­cy at Saint Mary's in .June 2004, Moon.ny said Monday, sho rnalizod the wider commu­nity was largldy unaware of tlw aeadomic and p11rsonal succ1~ss of Saint Mary's stu­dents. Occasionally she must answnr the frequnntly posed question of whether a wonwn's college rnmains rein­vant. 

"My answer, of eourse, is absolutely," Mooney said. "I believe we are more relevant than ever." 
The College is particularly strong in the sciences, Mooney said. Saint Mary's graduates have performed so Wflil in medical school in recent years, she said, the College now receives requests for appli­cants from outside programs. 
"Wn expect a lot from our students." Mooney said. "We don't eoddh~ them. Their aca­dnmic experience is rigorous." 
Moonny said her 1972 class inefuded many women who went on to exceptional careers. She attributed her own suecess to her experience at a women's college, saying "not only was I prepared ]for life after college], I was super­prepared. 
"I can say the leadership skills that got me where I am today I learned as Ia student 
see M00NEYIpage 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
College tow-n goal discussed 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
Assistant News Editor 

In a few years, Notrn Dame might be known not just as a university famous for its ath­letics, academics and Catholicism, but also as one with a great colloge town. 
At least that's what student leaders suggested as they brainstormed ideas for th11 University's plan to construct a new development with a col­lege-town atmosph11re south of campus at Monday's Council of Representatives meeting. 
Construction could start across Angela Boulevard as early as this summer, though students will not see full dnvnl­opment for another two to thrnn years, studont body vice prnsident Lizzi Shappell said. 
Studnnt government intnnds to participate in the projnet by helping to conduct mark11t researeh to dnterminn what types of eatnrins, retail nstab­lishments and other venu11s should bn prnsnnt in an off­campus center. 
"JWn want to know] what would makn Itho I wholn area viable for studnnts and com­munity mnmbnrs," student body presid11nt l>avn Baron said. 
Shappell said while the University ·owns the land in question, the developnr -who will reeeive the data collectnd by studnnt government -is in 
see COR/page 4 


Wait-listed study abroad hopefuls find process confusing 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
Assistant News Ediwr 
Sophomore Paula Kim was surprisnd wlwn she was wait­listml a week-and-a-half ago for tlw second of two international studios programs. She also rnaliznd for the lirst timn how confusing the application proenss snnmed. 
Kim's concnrns at being placed on the waiting lists for the Trinity Collegn Dublin pro­gram (which notilied students in .January) and tho program in Toledo, Spain, mirrors that of numerous students who remain unsure about tlw Ol'fiec of lntnrnational Studios' selection proenss -and the meaning of being plaeed on a wait-list. 
"Tho way Notre Dame dnscribes the application 
process, they want every stu­dent who is qualified to go," Kim said. "I never really got the sensn that applying to study abroad programs [wasl so com­pntitive." 
Claudia Kselman, director of the Officn of International Studies, described the process as extremely compotitive -a feature that limits some quali­find applicants from participat­ing in a program. 
"We have an incredible nufn­bnr of excellent applicants," Kselman said. "We just don't have room for them. We'd love to take more students." 
Kselman said the Office of International Studies' is unable to increase the number of stu­dents who can participate due to "natural limitations abroad in terms of accommodations." 
Up until now, Kselman said, students have only been eonsid­ered for their tirst-ehoiee pro­grams. Kim claims this fact is unclear to many students. 
"That's an ambiguity," she said. "I don't know whether my being wait-listed at Trinity affectnd my being wait-listed at Toledo. Nobody knows exaetly." 
Wait-listed candidates arc seen as "eligible to partieipate, but not as strong overall as the students who were aceepted," Kselman said. Though the majority of applicants who were not accepted were placed on wait-lists, some students were rejected outright if the selection eommittee deemed them unqualified. 
Joseph Stanfiel, associate director of the London Program, said no students have 
see ABROAD/page 4 


Tuesday, February 21,2006 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 

JPW 
•


JOYS 
When do parents stop being the enemy and start to become friends? 
Maybe it's the fact that 1don't live at home for nine months out of the year now. Maybe it has something to do with the fact that we talk on the phone everyday, or that I'm just get­ting older. Maybe my stories of Kate Gales Notre Dame bring back my parents' 
Associate
memories of their 
Sports Editor 
time here. 
Or, as one friend put it, it's when you stop fighting with your parents, and start planning events to drink with them. 
Whatever it is, JPW marked a change in my relationship with my parents. There is really nothing like introducing your parents to your life in college. It's not a hectic football weekend, with the band playing at every turn and NDSP roaming the parking lots around the stadium armed with breathalyzers. It's not a weepy Frosh-0 goodbye or a frantic end-of-the-semester packing debacle. 
For the first time, I had a weekend with nothing to do but enjoy the com­pany of my parents. In some ways, it was a lot like other times here with my friends. But instead of a circle of girls dancing to "Livin' on a Prayer," it was my dad. Instead of running to DeBartolo in the clothes 1slept in the night before, my parents accompa­nied me to meetings with my profes­sors. Replace Fajita Friday at NOH with a banquet for 1,000 other jun­iors on the ice rink, and you have the Saturday night dinner. 
In addition to meeting my friends, my parents also had the opportunity to interact with the parents of my friends. Some were familiar faces from tailgating the last few years; some were total strangers. Thrown together at a Saturday night party with nothing in common but tuition bills, my parents made conversation about everything from trips to Spain to trips to Mitchell, South Dakota. They cut moves on the dance floor, took pictures and beat me in college football trivia. 
When my parents pulled away from Cavanaugh after the Sunday brunch, it felt a lot like Aug. 2003. But this time, they weren't abandoning me to a scary world of strangers who all had 4.0's in high school. They had made friends with my friends. It was­n't the worlds-colliding experience I had expected -instead, it brought together my family from home and the family I made here. 
So thank you, Notre Dame, for giv­ing us a weekend to appreciate our changing relationships with our par­ents. Thank you, friends, for your dis­cretion around my family (joking, Dad, seriously). Thank you, parents of my friends, for your amusing dance moves (specifically, Mrs. Davenport and Mr. Jackson). But most of all, thank you, Mom and Dad. Not just for the groceries and the non-dining-hall dinners, but for making the trip out here. That's what parents do, I guess. But it's also what friends are for. And it's fun being friends as well as family. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards i!Self as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW DID YOU STAY WARM THIS WEEKEND? 

Avery Ambrose  Caitlin Diffley  Christian Robles  David Varga  Elizabeth Elliot  Jordan Gallo  
freshman Keenan  senior Lyons  sophomore Alumni  sophomore Knott  sophomore Welsh Family  sophomore Lyons  
"/stayed indoors and slept."  "Euro trash dance party at Legends."  "Stayed by my heater. Unfortunately,  "/ rocked out hardcore. ''  "/played ultimate Jenga and bit the  "/ didn't -I've never been so cold in my life!"  


it only turns on 
when it wants to." 

DUSTIN Observer 

Chris Morrissey peers down at a demonstration for Peace Week in front of O'Shaughnessy Hall Monday. Each boot represents an American soldier in the National Guard who has died in the war in Iraq. 
OFFBEAT 
Girl's prosthetic legs stolen for second time 
LOS ANGELES -For the second time in three months, a 16-year-old California girl who lost a leg in an accident has had her artificial limbs stolen. 
Melissa Huff, an Arcadia High School student who uses a $16,000 prosthetic limb to play softball for the school team and another one, valued at $12,000, for everyday use, said both were taken from her bed­room Tuesday. 
"I was picking up my little brother from school when my mom called me and asked where I left the two prosthetic legs," Huff, who lives in the Los Angeles sub­urb of Temple City, told Reuters in an interview. 
"I knew right then that it had happened again." 
Lisa Huff, her mother, said she came home around midday on Tuesday and found the room shared by Melissa and her older sister a mess. Only the prosthetic limbs were missing. 
Stripping away the mystery 
AMSTERDAM -Am­sterdam's famed red light district held its first ever "open day" Saturday as its peep-shows and brothels gave crowds of wide-eyed visitors free entry to help shed the area's increasingly nega­tive reputation. 
Armed with a list of 25 establishments opening their doors and flinging back their red curtains, hundreds of tourists and locals seized the opportu­nity to see a prostitute's bedroom, watch a brief live peep-show or chat to a lap dancer. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


bag." 
IN BRIEF 
The Faculty Forum "Engaging The Merchant of Venice: Academic Freedom and Anti-Semitism" will take place today at 5 p.m. in the 
Philbin  Theater  in  the  
DeBartolo  Center  for  
Performing Arts.  

Debbie Johnson Schibert, Chair of the Saint Mary's Board of Trustees, will speak as part of the "After Graduation: Your Saint Mary's Degree" at 6 p.m. Wednesday in the west wing of The Noble Family Dining Hall. 
Wasted and Wounded II, a tutorial on Internet preda­tors, will take place at 6:30 
p.m. Wednesday in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The "Around the World Film Festival" will take place at 7 p.m. Wednesday in Vander Vennet Theater in the Saint Mary's Student Center. 
Bishop Thomas J. Gumbleton of Detroit will speak at 7:30 p.m. Thursday in the Carey Auditorium in the Hesburgh Library as part of the Catholic Think Tank lecture series. 
Gabriel Meyer, author of "War and Faith in Sudan," will give a lecture at 7:30 
p.m. Thursday in room 131 of DeBartolo Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

25 12 

HIGH LOW 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a: 
1.1.1 ::z::: 
~ 
1.1.1 
3: 
..... 
<
(.) 


HIGH LOW 

35 
27 

40 22 

0 
HIGH 32
.... 
LOW 30 
Tuesday, February 21, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group approves funds for chenlistry club's trip 
By LIZ HARTER 
New.• Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of' <iovnrnanen (BOG) ofl'i1~fJrS approvnd a $1,500 co-sponsor­ship f'or the Saint Mary's Af'filiatns of' tlw Amnriean Chemical Society (SMAACSl at thoir nHH1ting Monday night. 
Tho f'unding will help finaneo tho chemistry dub's spring trip to an Atlanta-basod seinnce eonf'ernnee, oxecutive trnasur­er .lillian Waters said. The co­sponsorship had already been approved by the Student Aeadnmie Couneil and needed tho approval of BOG. 

"/personally feel 

"BOG is not thn highly on the only place they this is quite a bil of College to send a are asking f'or df1legation to the
money if it is only 

money," Waters event.
going to benefit

said. "But it is "Tho least we probably going to seniors and ean give them is be a costly trip $750," student
their senior 

for thmn." body prosidont
compositions. " 

In addition to Kollye Mitros fundraising, the said. "Or we ean Saint Mary's Jackie Wright give them up to chemistry $1,500."
residence hall 

dnpartment has Health and
association president 

aln1ady agreed to wellness commis­pay for the sioner Moghan group's airline tickets. Lambourno movod to approve llownver, if BOG approvns the the $1,500 request, and tho SMAACS eo-sponsorship, tho motion was approvod. department would like to be n1imbursnd, WatPrs said. In Other BOG News: 
Junior elass president Heidi + Elections commissioner (;oeppingnr qtwstioned how Daniello Lernor announced snnding just a t'nw students to that campaigning for class the conference would benefit the eampus as a whole. 
Hnsidence llall Assoeiation prnsident .Iackie Wright voieed similar conc11rns. 
"I personally f'nel this is quite a bit of' money if it is only going to berwl'it seniors and their snnior compositions." Wright said. 
Tho Board had the opportu­nity to rnduen the eo-sponsor­ship by hall', but chief' of staff Moniea Lindblom said the con­feroneo is erodible and the College reeeived a formal invi­tation to attend it. 
Othor Board mombors added that since chemistry is a male-
dominated field, 
it would reflect 
olections begins this week. Members discussed the offec­tivoness of the eleetion proeess, noting student apathy as a coneern as well. 
One of tho problems men­tioned by several board mom­hers was the faet that seniors, although just months away from graduation, are still allowed to vote. 
Mitros commented on the laek of turnout for the "Meot tho Candidate" session held in the west wing of the dining hall for oach olection. Sho suggest­ed broadcasting the discussion over the dining hall's public address system as they have done in roeent years. 
"Everyone had to listen to what they woro saying, ovon if they weren't in the west wing last year," Mitros said. 
Tho strict campaigning rules were also questioned when Lindblom noted the rules regu­lating where candidatos can place their advertisemonts. 
"We can have people's 21st birthdays all over the place but we ean't have important stu!T," sueh as campaign ads, Lindblom said. 
Lerner said changes to the election procoss cannot be made this year. However Mitros said student govern­ment officials could use the current elections to observo the pros and cons of the elec­tion procoss and make improvements for next yoar. 
Contact Liz Harter at 
• eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Dunn 
continued from page 1 
and is a r11ctor ropresentative in the Campus Life Couneil. 
She was uncertain about whethor she would continue her involvem1~nt in these organizations onc:n she takes on her new responsibilities. 
Beeky Lyman. an assistant rector in Lyons llall, said she was sad to sne Dunn leave tho dorm but is nqually con­vinced that Dunn will suc­ceed in her new job. 
"I'm thrilled for her." Lyman said. "I c:ouldn't think of a better porson. She'll be ama~.ing, as she has been here. 
Dunn has previous experi­enco working at the adminis­trativo level. 
She was the assistant dean of student affairs at St. Thomas Aquinas College in Sparkill. N.Y., before she came to Notre Dame in 2001. 
Maddie IIanna and Mary Kate Malone contributed to. this report. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Recycle The Observer. 
LEHMAN BROTHERS FINANCE INTERNSHIP PROGRAM INFORMATION SESSION 
SPONSORED BY THE NOTRE DAME FINANCE CLUB 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2006 11:00 A.M.-4:00P.M. OPEN HOUSE 
CAREER RESOURCE CENTER PLANNER HALL ROOM 114 
C(lsuol Attire 
\:Ve invite Sophomores and Juniors to join us ond learn more about Lehman Brothers and opportunities in the Finance Division 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: WWW.LEHMAN.COM/CAREERS 

LEHMAN BROTHERS 
Where vision gets built."' 
©2006 Lehman Brothers Inc. All Rights Reserved. Member SIPC. 
Tuesday, February 21, 2006 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
COR 
continued from page 1 
charge of choosing how to use the property. 
The market research will focus on topics such as the types of stores students fre­quent and their current shop­ping habits. 
"For example, if students shop at J. Crew online, will they stop and shop at 
dent Erin Mulholland said the process of gathering student opinions should focus on cur­rent freshmen and sopho­mores. 
"I think it's important to include in focus groups younger students who would be around when changes are made," Mulholland said. 
Keough senator Rob Lindley, Jr. noted that a near­by development could increase already-growing stu­dent use of Transpo, the local public 
a J. Crew store if transportation
"We want

it opens south of system. campus?" "The relation­
something Shappell said. neighborhood­ship we've built Shappell with Transpo,
focused, like a

shared some that's some­
sports bar, retail
suggestions thing we have about establish­clothing shops, to take advan­ments in the tage of,"
restaurants and
development and Lindley said.
coffee shops." 

inquired •about "Now if you representatives' have an attrac­thoughts. Lizzi Shappell tion like college "We want town as some­
student body vice 
something neigh­where to go,
president

borhood-focused, like a sports bar, retail clothing shops, restau­rants and coffee shops," Shappell said. "We want to open it up for suggestions." 
Club Coordination Council President Beth O'Shaughnessy asked about the intended atmosphere of the future development. 
"Would it be something quaint, with coffee shops and little stores, or big-name stores?" O'Shaughnessy said. 
Since the development will not be completed for a few years, sophomore class presi­
that's even 
more of an 
incentive to use 
it." 
Baron noted that before the Transpo agreement, Notre Dame students made up two percent of total Transpo rid­ers in the city. Now, they comprise five percent of rid­ers. 
Shappell said student research will continue with focus groups and both quali­tative and quantitative web­based research. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 


Abroad 
continued from page 1 
received rejections from that program so far this year. 
At this point, applications have only been evaluated for applicants' first-choice pro­grams -a policy which Kselman said corresponds with the Oflice's desire to fit students with their first choice programs whenever possible. 
"There's this terrible day when you get three or four wait-lists, but that's clear from the literature [that students are not accepted to a program while still being considered for their first choice.]," Kselman said. "People forget that." 
As the Oflice of International Studies tallies accepted stu­dents' confirmations in the coming weeks, wait-listed stu­dents will begin to hear about spots in first-choice programs, followed by spots in their lower­ranked programs when first­choice spots are not available. 
"There are definitely situa­tions where students don't get their first choice but get their second choice," Kselman said. "I would encourage students to apply to more than one pro­gram. I would not put all my eggs in one basket." 
Though both directors and students agree that applying to more programs increases a stu­dent's chances of being accept­ed to go abroad, students have expressed concern that the ordering of their preferences can affeCt their chances of acceptance to any program. 
Sophomore Andrea Thompson, who was accepted 
to study in Rome, said the pos­sible problem of ordering pre­ferred programs was her only critique of the selection process -though she admitted she did not know how to improve such a feature. 
"(For] some people who do really want to study abroad ... their preferences can mess up their chances of getting in," she said. 
Kselman said students apply­ing to highly competitive pro­grams should consider the way they order their preferences, though the office does try to match students with their first choices whenever possible. 
Stanfield also said there was some merit to concerns about how programs are ordered on an application. 
"Technically, it's· true [a stu­dent could be shutout], if you take two extremely competitive programs" Stanfiel said, citing high application rates this year to Rome and Dublin. "If you put Rome as a first choice and Dublin as a second choice, it's conceivable you won't get into [Rome or] Dublin." 
He said the Office of International Studies tries to fit every qualified student with a program. 
"We do try to ensure that qualified students get to go somewhere," Stanfiel said. "We try to make sure no one falls through the cracks." 
To increase the odds of get­ting in, Kselman advised stu­dents to include oft-overlooked programs in their application. 
"I would encourage students to apply to less popular pro­grams, like the programs in China and Japan," she said, "They'll have a greater chance of going somewhere if they add a program like that." 

Kim said some International Studies policies remain unclear to wait-listed students. 
"One thing I really wish ... was that they gave more infor­mation to those who are on the wait-list," Kim said. "You are pretty much putting your whole life on hold for the next year, so it's hard not knowing any­thing." 
Notre Dame students' drive and desire to plan for the future makes it especially difli­cult for them and their families to wait it out, she said. 
"They just tell us we're on a wait-list and say, 'Don't call us, we'll call you,"' Kim said. "That sort of attitude is really tough on the students when you don't know how high you are on the wait-list or how many people are on it." 
Students on the waiting lists will not be informed of their chances of getting into a pro­gram until they actually are offered a spot, Kselman said. 
"We've notified students that we expect the process to be fin­ished by spring break," she said. "On the other hand, there's always a chance over the summer or even during the fall semester [for spring pro­grams] that slots will open up." 
Kselman said the oflice could not release the numbers of stu­dents who applied or break­downs of how many were accepted, wait-listed and rejected, while Stanfiel said 373 students applied for 260 spots (130 per semester) in the London Program. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S STUDY ABROAD INFO SESSION 
TUESDAY FEBRUARY 21, 2006 
500 pm DEBARTOL() H1\LL N O'I' I{E Il1\l\tlE c:.1\IVIPUS SMC, ND, & HC STUDENTS ARE WELCOME!! 
Semester Pro rams  DeBartolo Rm#  
ROME, ITALY  204  
MAYNOOTH,  203  
IRELAND  
SEMESTER  120  
AROUND THE  
WORLD  
SEVILLE, SPAIN  225  
Pietermaritzb u rg,  202  
SOUTH AFRICA  
DIJON, FRANCE  224  

Summer Programs  De Barto  
lo Rm. #  
231  
EUROPEAN STUDY  240  
PROGRAM  
BUSINESS INTERNSHIPS  143  
IN THE EUROPEAN UNION  
KOREAN CULTURE  223  
STUDY  
ENVIRONMENTS OF  149  
ECUADOR  
HONDURAS SERVICE  241  
LEARNING PROGRAM  

For Semester Programs: 
Accepting Applications for Summer '06 
Deadline to Express Interest-Feb 21 
Saint Mary 's.Students on the Seville Program (Spring '{)5j 
deadline March 21, 2006. 
& 

APPLY ON-LINE@
Deadline for Applications -March 21 
vmw.saintmarys.edu/-cwil 
lfyou are unable to attend an information session please contact the Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership at SMC cwil@saintmarys.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, February 21, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVJC:ES page 5 
============================================================================== 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Militants act, cut daily oil output 
LA<;os. Nignria-Militants holding nine for­eigners hostage launched attacks Monday on a piptdine and a boat in Nigeria's swampy delta region, vowing to sprnad their cam­paign across thn pntroleurn-rkh south from whnrn most of tlw African oil giant's crude is purnpml. 
Attac~ks on oil installations in rnennt days by thn Movnmnnt for thn Emancipation of tho Niger Dtdta havn now cut about 20 pnrcnnt of daily oil output in Nigeria, an OPEC mmnber and Africa's leading produc:or of crude. 
Tlw latnst violnrH~n didn't cause further pro­duction cuts but holpnd send oil pricns high­er on intnrnational markets. 
Leaders discuss future of Kosovo 
VIHNNA, Austria-Serbs and ethnic Albanians trying to rnsolvn onn of the touglwst disputPs left from thn Balkan wars 0 f the 1IJ <) () s Ill e t M0 nday t0 d iseuss wlwtlwr Kosovo should bP independtmt or remain part of Snrhia-Monterwgro. 
A spokoswornan for the chiof U.N. mndia­tor dc~scribnd Monday's session as "frank." 
"The whoiP mneting was very construc­livn." said llua .liang, thn spoknswoman for Martti Ahlisaari. the U.N. talks nnvoy. 
Bt1fon1 thP talks startnd at Vinnna's Daun­Kinsky l'alacn, tlw Kosovo learn's loador l.utfi llaziri. thn provincn's minister of local goyprnrnenl. had madP his position dnar: "WP want to n~solvP thn status as soon as possihl1~. lndnp1Hid1•ncn is corning." 
But Snrbia's l'rnsidnnt Bol'is Tadie, speak­ing in Sorbia's capital Belgrade, said the talks should r.oncnntrate on improving the lifn of tlw lwlnagtwn~d Snrb minority in thn disputnd provinrn rathor than deal with Kosovo's final status. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Officials investigate church fires 
(;LENCOE, Ala. -A suspieious fire did minor damagn to the exterior of a small church, but uuthorities said Monday it dons not appnar to be linked to a string of suspncted arsons that havn damaged or destroynd I 0 rural churelws in Alabama. 
Thn regional direetor of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, .Jim Cavanaugh. said investigators believe the fire at the small ehurch in Glencoe was started by somiHJIW from the area. 
.lohnny Chambers, acting ehief of thtl (ilnncoe Police Department, said members of tlw joint fmleral-statn task foree inves­tigating thn eases wen1 asked to review thn blazn that oeeurrnd narly Sunday at Chapman's Chapel. 

Rice discusses Palestinian finances 
WASIIINC;TON -Seerntary of Statn Condoleezza Hice talknd Monday with other would -lw M i dnas t p n a e ern a k n r s about the l'inaneial situation of the Palestinian terl'itorifJS af'tor the Israeli Cahinc~t halted tlw transfer of hundreds of' millions of' dollars in tax money to Palestinians. 
l.atnr in the day, Hke was travnling to the Mideast in an Pl'fort to solidify Arab allins in J•:gypt and Saudi Arabia to send llamas a nwssage to modnrate its views and to seek unity against helping fund the mili­tant Islamic Palostinian lnadnrship if it dons not. 
lOCAL NEWS 

New proposal pushes graduation 
INI>lANAPOI.IS-Lawmakers are considering a proposal that would rnakn it morn diflkult !i1r somn studcmts to drop out of' high school -a lngislativn n!lilrt to lwlp bnc~f up Indiana's gradu­ation rate from about 70 percnnt. 
Tlw bill would allow studnnb bntwnnn 1(, and IS ynars old to drop out only if' tlwy have a linandal hardship. lwalth rnason or a court order permitting thnm to quit school. Currently. studcmts betweml ages 16 and I H can drop out for any rnason with Lim consent of a parent and school principal. 


Bush proposes new energy plan 
President optimistic technological advances will lesson dependence on foreign oil 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -Saying the nation is on the verge of technological break­throughs that would "startle" most Americans, President Bush on Monday outlined his ener­gy proposals to help wean the country off' foreign oil. 
Less than half the crude 
oil used by refineries is 
produced in the United 
States, while 60 percent 
comes from foreign 
nations, Bush said during 
the first stop on a two-day 
trip to talk about energy. 
Some of these foreign suppliers have "unstable" governments that have fundamental differences with America, he said. 
"It creates a national security issue and we're held hostage for energy by foreign nations that may not like us," Bush said. 
Bush is focusing on energy at a time when Americans are paying high power bills to heat their homes this winter and have only recently seen a decrease in gaso­linn prices. 
One of Bush's proposals would expand research into smaller, longer-last­ing batteries for electric­gas hybrid ears, including plug-ins. He highlighted that initiative with a visit Monday to the battery center at Milwaukee­based auto-parts supplier Johnson Controls Inc. 
During his trip, Bush is also focusing on a propos­al to increase investment in development of clean electric power sources, and proposals to speed the development of biofu­els such as "cellulosic" ethanol made from wood chips or sawgrass. 
Energy consnrvation groups and environmen­talists say they're pleased that the prnsident, a for­mer oil man in Tc~xas, is stressing alternative sources of onergy, but they contend his propos­als don't go far enough. They say the administra­tion rn ust consider greater ruel-efficieney standards 



for cars. and some econo­mists believe it's best to increase the gas tax to force consumers to change their driving habits. 
During his visit to Johnson Controls' new hybrid battery laboratory, Bush checked out two Ford Escapes -one with a nickel-metal-hybrid bat­tery, the kind that powers most hybrid-electric vehi­cles, and one with a lithi­um-ion battery, which Johnson Controls believes are the wave of the future. The lithium-ion battery was about half the size of the older-modnl battery. In 2004, Johnson Controls roeeived a gov­ernment contract to develop the lithium-ion batteries. 
On Tuesday, Bush plans to visit the Energy Department's National Henewable Energy Laboratory in Golden, Colo., to talk about speed­ing the development of biofuels. 

The lab, with a looming $28 million budget short­fall, had announced it was cutting its staff by 32 peo­ple, including eight researchers. But in advance of Bush's visit, Energy Secretary Samunl Bodman over tho weekend directed the transfer of' $!i million to the private eon­tractor that runs the lab, so the jobs can be savnd. 
The department "has been informed that the NHEL lab dirnetor will usn these funds to immediate­ly restore all of the jobs that worn cut earlier this month due to budgnt shortfalls," the d n part­rnent said in a statenwnt Monday. 
"Our nation is on the threshold of new nnnrgy technology that I think will startle the Amnrican people," Bush said. "We'rn on thn ndge of some amazing brnak­throughs break­throughs all aimed at enhancing our national security and our fH~onomie security and thn quality of life or thn folks who livti hnre in tho United Statns." 
Latnr Monday, Bush vis­itnd the Unitnd Solar Ovonics Plant. which makes solar panels, in Auburn Hills, Mich .. out­side Dntroit. "This tnch­nology right horn is going to lwlp us ehangn the way we livn in our honws," Bush told rnportnrs. 
Top election official flees country 
Associated Press 
POHT-AU-PHINCE -The head of Ilaiti's electoral eouneil llod the coun­try after opponents threatened his life and burned down his farmhouse nearly two wonks aftnr disputod elec­tions, an ollicial said Monday. 
Jacques Bernard, appointed three months ago to bring order to a council that was plagued by organizational problems and infighting, left Sunday and may have traveled to Miami, said Michel Brunache, chief of staff for interim President Boniface Alexandrn. 
On Friday, Bernard had rnportnd receiving threats and requested more security amid complaints about the vote count from the Feb. 7 elections, which returned former Prc~sident Ilene Preval to the ofl1ce, Brunache said. 
"lie said he was afraid for himself and his family and said he wanted more security," Brunache told The Associated Press. "I was shocked when I heard he had left." 
The U.N. peacekeeping mission in llaiti said it didn't know Bernard's whernabouts. 
Bemard had kept a low pro!iln siiH:n the nine-member council d<~clarl'd Preval thn presidnnt on Thursday, night days after tho long-awaited votn. 
Prev;tl, who receivnd four times as many votes as his nearest rival, was dedan~d the victor after thn nlnctoral eouncil agreed to divide H!i,OOO blank ballots among LIH~ :n candidatns pro­portionally aceording to tho votes they had received. That gave Prnval tlw !i1 percent he needed to avoid a rurw(l'. 
page 6 

Mooney 
continued from page 1 
at Saint Mary's]." 
Mooney said Saint Mary's also has the most graduates from any women's college (four) in the House of Representatives, though most would guess Massachusetts institutions Wellesley College or Smith College held the dis­tinction. 
Application numbers for next fall are strong, Mooney said. The College has received 22 percent more applications than last year, the most at Saint Mary's in 17 years. 
"We've adopted some differ­ent tactics in the admissions office [like the use of the Common Application for our applicants] that I think have been successful for us," Mooney said. 
The College's endowment fund also has risen; albeit slightly. When Mooney took office 18 months ago, the endowment stood at roughly $100 million and she publicly stated it was one of her top priorities to double it. As of Monday, Mooney said, the total was $107.5 million. 
In an effort to diversify the College's faculty and staff, Mooney said she implemented a policy that requires a mem­ber of a historically under­represented ethnic group be among the final pool of candi­dates for any position at the College. If there is no such candidate, Mooney said, there must be documentation as to why not. 
The Saint Mary's Board of Trustees is also taking pro­gressive steps to include alumnae of color, traditionally absent, among its ranks, l\1.ooney said. 
The challenge now, Mooney said, is to open the College to the larger community and publicize its students' accom­plishments. Campus facilities are already being used for non-college sponsored events, Mooney said, and she hopes that will increase. 
"I think the misconception that I would like to correct is that the community is not welcome on campus," Mooney said. 
Mooney said b_ig campus events,. especially those spon­sored by the Center for Women in Intercultural Leadership, generally have received appropriate atten­tion from local media outlets. 
"I think our newspaper cov­erage has actually been quite good," Mooney said. "We have realized in some sense we aren't always the biggest story in town because we aren't the biggest [school in town]." 
College spokeswoman Melanie McDonald added that although journalists don't always have the time to do the research on certain types of stories, she would like to see coverage that is less event-driven. 
"I think that it would be great to expand Saint Mary's [coverage] beyond events and who we are and what we are," McDonald said. 
Responding to a question about "The Vagina Monologues" and academic freedom in light of the con­troversy at Notre Dame, Mooney clarified that the play has never been banned at Saint Mary's. Mooney attend­ed "The SMC Monologues," skits written and performed 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 21, 2006 
by members of the College are our own stories," Mooney unnamed building will be said. community, said. "I think located on the far northeast Members of the search com­during the they are more corner of campus and serve mittee expect to name a new weekend and powerful than as the primary academic dean of faculty by graduation
"We expect a lot from 
said silencing [using the facility on campus. Although on May 20, she said. 
our students. We don't
students words of other fundraising has not been "The Vice President of would not be coddle them., women]." completed, the start date has Student Affairs is behind but an appropriate One of the tentatively been set for fall of we still hope to have that action to take biggest events 2006. position [filled] before school
Carol Mooney
at Saint for the College Two searches are currently starts," Mooney said.
Saint Mary's president 
Mary's. in the upcom-underway to replace outgoing "I believe ing year will be Vice President and Dean of ["The SMC breaking Faculty Pat White and outgo­
Contact Megan O'Neil at

Monologues"] are extremely ground on the new academic ing Vice President for Student 
onei0907@saintmarys.edu

powerful simply because thBy building, Mooney said. The Affairs Linda Timm, Mooney 
At Ernst &Young you'll get the on-the-job training you need to succeed on your own. 
We know you're new to the work force. That's why we've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. At Emst &Young we're offering an opportunity to learn from some of the best talent in the industry. If you're looking for agreat start, look for us on campus. Or visit us on the Web at ey.comjusjcareers. We won't steer you wrong. 

THE 0HSERVER 






USINESS

Tuesday, February 21, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 


11,115.32 -5.36

}ones h;,
·u,: Some: Down: Composite Volu I.SS2 141 1Al4 2,129,207,450
.,.,, 

AMEX I ,820.63 +10.57 NASDAQ 2~28~.36 -12.27 NYSE 8,092.42 +5.68 S&PSOO I ,287.24 -2.14 NIKKE.I(Tokyo) (5,631.87 +193.94 FTSE IOO(london) 5,863.00 +16.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI) -6.90 -0.39 5.26 
INTEL CP (INTC) -3.47 -0.74 20.61 
NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ) -0.79 -0.33 41.21 
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU) +3.73 +0.11 3.06 
DELL INC (DELL) -4.94 -1.58 30.38 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND 0.00 0.00 45.41 
I0-YEAR NOTE 0.00 0.00 44.27 
5-YEAR NOTE 0.00 0.00 45.09 
3-MONTH BILL 0.00 0.00 45.49 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.16 61.29 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +5.80 554.60 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.88 84.33 
Excha e Rates 

YEN 118.4400 
EURO 
0.8378 
POUND 0.5735 
CANADIAN$ 1.1473 
IN BRIEF 

Governors challenge port decision 
WASHINGTON -Two H!lpublican governors on Monday qunstionml a Bush administration dedsion allowing an Arab-owned company to operate six major U. S. ports, saying they may try to eane1ll lease arrangemnnts at ports in their statns. 
Nnw York Cov. George Pataki and Maryland Gov. Hobnrt Ehrlich voiced doubts about the acquisition of a British company that has been running the U.S. ports by Dubai Ports World, a state-owned business in the United Arab Emirates. 
The British company, Peninsular and Orinntal. runs major commercial operations at ports in Baltimore, Miami, New Jersey, New Orlnans, Nnw York and Philadelphia. 
"Ensuring the security of New York's port operations is paramount and I am very con­cnrnnd with the purchase of Peninsular & Oriental Stearn by Dubai Ports World," Pataki said in a news release. 

GM shuts down first of twelve plants 
OKI.AIIOMA CITY -Some workers brought camnras to c;eneral Motors Corp.'s Oklahoma plant to take photogmphs of thnir work sta­tions and eo-worknrs before the last vehicle rolled ofT the line Monday, photos that will hnconw trnasurml kenpsakes in scrapbooks. 
Otlwrs just brought their sadness. 
"It's a rough clay." said c;M spokoswoman Naney Sarpolis in Detroit. "It's hard to snn your eo-workers go." 
After 27 years. tlw last vehido produePd at thn plant, a white C:hnvrolnt Trailblaznr EXT, rolled out Monday nvtHJing as (;M shut down produetion in thn first or 12 f'acilitins tlw company plans to dosn by 2008 as it strug­gles to mal<"h production with market demand. 
l>1~t.roit-l>asnd GM plans to 1:ut 30,000 jobs. Tlw Oklahoma City plant nmploys 2,400­
2.200 hourly and 200 salaried -hut ncono­mists said as many as 7,500 jobs eould bn aiTneted inr.luding those at GM supplinrs and sPr.ondary jobs, likn hotld and rnstaurant workPrs. 
"It's obviously a sad day for tho state of Oklahoma," said Mikn Sonny, senior vien prPsidPnt or The Statn Chambnr, a statewide businnss and industry group. 
RadioShack president resigns 


Edmondson steps down amid accusations of multiple resume fabrications 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -RadioShack 
Corp.'s embattled presi­
dent and CEO, David 
Edmondson, resigned 
Monday following ques­
tions about his resume's 
accuracy. 
The Fort Worth elec­tronics retailer said that its board accepted his res­ignation and has promot­ed Claire Babrowski ­executive vice president and chief operating ol'licer -to acting CEO. 
Leonard Hoberts, HadioShack's chairman and Edmondson's prede­cessor as CEO, said the move was necessary to restore the company's credibility. 
"One of the most impor­tant things we have as a corporation is integrity and trust and we know we have to restore that back to the publie," he said. 
Edmondson issued a brief statement Monday but did not discuss his resume. 
"For the last 11 years, it has been my privilege to be associated with HadioShack," he said. "At this time the board and I have agreed that it is in the best interest of the company for new leader­ship to step forward so that our turnaround plan 

That investigation won't Edmondson said last didn't think the changehas the best possible continue since Edmondson Wednesday he believes would come on a publicchance to succeed, as I 
quit, the company said. that he received a theolo­holiday, as it did, when know it will.'' 
Edmondson, 46, joined gy diploma called a ThG, financial markets worn Edmondson's troubles 
HadioShack in 1994 and but not the four-year closed. began last Tuesday when 
had been CEO since May. bachelor of science degree "If you think about his errors in his resume were 
Edmondson had claimed listed on his resume. lie tenure, it's not as if he's reported by the Fort 
that he received degrees could not document the led a turnaround of this Worth Star-Telegram. The 
in theology and psycholo­ThG diploma. company," she said. "That company's board said it 
gy from Pacific Coast Roberts said company being said, it would be dif­stood behind its CEO, a 
Baptist College in background checks did ficult for tho board, con­decision Roberts said he 
California, which moved in not include academic veri­sidering the things that now regrets. 
1998 to Oklahoma and fication in 1994 as it dons have como out, to find a On Wednesday, 
renamed itself Heartland today. reason to keep him." Edmondson said he took 
Baptist Bible College. Hoberts said The company has since responsibility for the 
The school's registrar Edmondson's severance removed biographical errors. Separately, 
told the Star-Telegram package will be less than sketches of its executives, HadioShack said it would 
that records showed $1 million in a cash pay­including Babrowski, and hire outside lawyers to 
Edmondson completed out, but said more details replaced it with the fol­investigate errors in 
only two semesters and will be released Tuesday lowing statement: "We aro Edmondson's resume, 
that the school never in a regulatory filing. currenlly updating and including claims that he 
offered degrees in psy­The move did not sur­validating all of' thn biog­earned two college 
chology. The school oiTi-· prise Stacny Widlitz, ana­raphical information for degrees for which the 
dal declined to comment lyst for Fulcrum Global each of our snnior exneu­school he attended has no to The Associated Press. Partners LLC, though she tives." records. 


Governor presents housing plan 
maximum $150,000 per homeowner priatnd by Congress -would rnquirn Associated Press under the proposal. But dirnd rnlief is approval from thn l.ogislaturn and fi•d­still months away, and homtH>WnPrs nral oflidals. 
LAKE CHAHLES, La. -c;ov. Kathleen receiving the aid could be taking on An ostimatml 128,000 owner-oceu­Blanco outlinnd a $7.5 billion rnbuild­morn debt to rebuild. pind homes had major damage hy tlw ing, rnlocation and buyout plan Monday The draft faces scrutiny from local storms and 210,000 mort' n~eeivl'd for thousands of residents whoso o[Tieials. state lawmakers and the minor damage, an:ording to Blanco's homos rnmain damagod or dnstroynd alTocted residents; and it depends in Louisiana HecovPry Authority, whi1~h after last ynar's hurricanns. large part on federal dollars awaiting heard tho proposal at its nwPting in 
It is Louisiana's lirst comprehensive eongrnssional approval. Lake Charles, a southwtlst Louisiana housing proposal sinen llurrieane But th<i plan rnprns1mts a signilkant town that was !wavily damaged by Katrina devastated tho Gulf Coast in step in using billions of alrmtdy avail­Rita. August, l'ollownd a month later by able li~deral recovery dollars. The BlarH~o administration plan II urricano Hita. About $4.2 billion of the monny pro­would provide morwy to r·epair or 
"In tho not too distant futuro, I pre­posnd for the program has bnnn recom­mbuild damagml honws and to rPiomte diet the sounds of hammers and saws mended by tim White I louse but hasn't people who want to build nlsl'wlwrl' in will bn ringing through all of our com­yet been approvnd by Congrpss. Any Louisiana. For those who don't want to munities as our homes are rnbuilt," plans for spending thn federal aid that reloeatn or rebuild in Louisiana, tlw Blanco said. Louisiana already has received -·and plan would buy them out at hO percent 
Assistance would be capped at a any additional housing money appro-of the pre-storm home value. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, February 21, 2006 
PALESTINE 

Leader of Hamas to be appointed Prime Minister 
Associated Press 

GAZA CITY -l-lamas pre­sented a pragmatic former uni­versity administrator as its choice for Palestinian prime minister Monday and the Islamic militant group reached out to Fatah and other factions to join a broad-based Cabinet that might stand a chance of gaining international approval. 
Officials said Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas would give Ismail Haniyeh his formal letter of appoint­ment on 
Another l-lamas leader, Mahmoud Zahar, met with other militant factions Monday -Islamic Jihad and the Popular Front for the Uberation of Palestine -to try to gain their support. 
Islamic Jihad leader Sheik Nafez Azzam said the group, which boycotted the election, would not join the government. The PFLP, which won just three seats, did not give an answer. 
It had been expected that 
Haniyeh, a rela­

• tive moderate by 
Tuesday, a step "This collective l-lamas stan­
toward installing dards, would
punishment will
the first govern­receive the offi­ment to be not break the cial appointment headed by determination of on Monday. 
l-lamas, which Palestinian offi­
the Palestinian 

swept parlia­cials did not mentary elec­people." explain the delay, tions last month. but Abbas has 
1-Ianiyeh, 43, been pressing
Ismail Haniyeh

told reporters l-lamas to moder­

Hamas member 

after meeting with Abbas that he would try to form a joint government with Fatah, the traditional Palestinian ruling party that l-lamas trounced in the election, "that can shoulder its responsibilities in the politi­cal area and internal issues." So far, Fatah has refused to join. 
He also criticized Israel's decision over the weekend to freeze the transfer of tax funds to the Palestinian Authority after l-lamas took control of the parliament. 
"The Israelis are trying to starve innocent people by tak­ing money from our taxes, and we are going to tight this by all legal means," he said. "This collective punishment will not break the determination of the Palestinian people." 
llamas, which calls for the destruction of Israel and is responsible for dozens of sui­cide bombings, is trying to per­suade other Palestinian fac­tions to join a coalition, hoping to persuade the world that the new Cabinet represents all the Palestinians and should not be the target of a boycott. 
ate its anti-Israel 

positions and accept the idea of peace talks. l-lamas has refused. 
The Israeli Cabinet decided Sunday to stop the transfer of the roughly $55 million a month it collects in taxes and tariffs on behalf of the Palestinian Authority. But the Cabinet declined to adopt tougher restrictions proposed by some Israeli security offi­cials. including sealing off the Gaza Strip from Israel, barring thousands of Palestinian labor­ers from entering Israel and eliminating all trade with the impoverished area. 
Secretary of State Condoleezza !lice talked Monday with partners in the so-called Quartet of Mideast peace negotiators about the financial situation of the Palestinian territories and their new leaders, a State· Department spokesman said. 
The conversation between Hice and representatives of Hussia, the European Union and the United Nations "cov­ered issues of support to the Palestinian people," spokesman Noel Clay said. 



Business professors scarce 
Diminishing supply and rising demand increase teacher pay 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -Business schools are getting a lesson in supply and demand when it comes to teachers. 
The schools have been com­peting for students for years as the number of master in busi­ness administration programs at universities has soared. Now the schools also are competing for a dwindling supply of doctoral business faculty to teach those students. 
Major accrediting groups and business school officials say the diminishing supply of people with doctorates in business and the rapidly increasing demand for their services globally have pushed doctoral salaries through the roof. It's also forced business schools to devise ways to effec­tively compete for doctoral facul­ty and find alternatives for filling vacant faculty positions. 
"There are two to three times the positions available as there are people to fill them," said Richard Sorensen, board chair­man for the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business International. The Tampa, Fla.-based organization accredits collegiate business schools offering undergraduate, master's and doctoral degree programs. 
Business education experts say a continuing shortage of doctoral faculty in business will hurt the quality of research and teaching and leave future business execu­tives less prepared for leader­ship roles in a global economy. 

Roger Jenkins, dean of the Richard T. Farmer School of Business at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, described the shortage as severe. 
"There is a huge cut in the supply and no turnaround in sight," he said. 
Those in business education say that several factors have combined to create the imbal­ance. 
Besides the growing number of business schools in the United States, there has been an explo­sion of such schools in other countries -schools that are seeking American-trained facul­ty with doctoral degrees. 
There are 80 AACSB-accredit­ed business schools outside of the United States, compared with 21 five years ago, said Sorensen, who is also dean of the Pamplin College of Business at Virginia Tech. 
Jenkins said budget cuts to state universities have led many schools to cut back their doctoral business programs, which are among the most expensive degree programs. The schools bear most of the cost of those programs, providing teaching stipends and tuition waivers to students who spend four years or more earning doctoral degrees. 
"The number of Ph.D.s coming out of the large institutions has been decreasing about 20 per­cent a year for the past three to four years," said Jenkins. 
The expense and time required for a doctoral degree also discourages students who can make much higher salaries in business. 
A 24-year-old with an MBA can look at spending at least four or five years on a graduate assis­tant's stipend or go into business with a starting salary of perhaps $60,000 or more, said Ashland University management profes­sor Richard Symons, president­elect of the Association of Collegiate Business Schools and Programs, a business education accreditation organization in Overland Park, Kan. 
Brett Smith, 36, of Oxford, is finishing his doctoral degree at the University of Cincinnati and will start teaching full time at the Miami business school in the fall. Ile said he was always interested in teaching, but went into busi­ness for economic reasons after getting his MBA. He said he might not have been able to seek the doctoral degree if he didn't still draw income from business­es he owns. 
"It's a big choice when you are already out in the working world and married with children. A lot of people would love to teach, but can't afford the fmancial sac­rifices," said Smith, whose start­ing teaching salary will be about 60 percent to 65 percent of what he was earning in business four _ years ago. 
Hetiring baby boomers with doctoral degrees who have been teaching for decades also are contributing to the doctoral fac­ulty shortage that is expected to increase at least over the next decade. 
Business schools are taking measures to remain competitive and searching for alternatives to fill some vacant faculty positions. 
Some, like Miami, are adding student fees to provide more money for facilities and for com­petitive salaries for new doctoral faculty. Total annual compensa­tion for those new hires can range from $100,000 to $180,000-often much higher than salaries for business Ph.D.s who have been on school facul­ties for years. 




Tuesday, February 21, 2006 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Historian sentenced
Rep. governors question Bush 
Security outsourcing plan said to put U.S. security in jepoardy 
Associated Press 
WASIIIN<;TON Two Hnpubliean governors on Monday qunstiorwd a Bush administration dedsion allowing an Arab-owned company to operate six major U. 
S. ports, saying they may try to eaneel lease arrangemnnts at porl-; in their states. 
Nnw York Gov. (;norge Pataki and Maryland Gov. Hobnrt Hhrlieh voiced doubts about the acquisi­tion of a British company that has bonn running thn U.S. ports by Dubai Porl-; World, a state-owned business in the United Arab Emirates. 
Tlw British company, Peninsular and Oriental, runs major commercial operations at ports in Baltimorn, Miami, Nnw .Jnrsny. New Orleans, New York and Philadelphia. 
"l•:nsuring the security or New York's port operations is para­mount and I am very concerned with the purchase of Peninsular & Oriental Steam by Dubai Ports World," l'ataki said in a news rolnase. 
"I havn directed the Port Authority of Nnw York and Nnw .Jersny to nxplore all legal options that may bo available to them in rngards to this transadion," said tlw Nnw York governor, who is still in Uw hospital recovering from an appendectomy. 
lihrlich, com:ernod about seeu­rity at the Port of Baltimore, said Monday he is "very troublnd" that Maryland ollicials got no advance notice bnl'oro the Bush adminis­tration approvnd an Arab compa­ny's takeover of th11 operations at th1~ six porl-;. 
"We needed to know bol(lre this was a done deal, given the state of where we are coneerning seeu­rity," Ehrlich told reporters in the State House rotunda in Annapolis. 

The state of Maryland is consid­ering its options, up to and includ­ing voiding the contract for the Port of Baltimore, Ehrlich said, adding: "We have a lot of discre­tion in the contract." 
Pataki is also asking the federal government to "share all critical relevant inf(>rrnation made avail­able to the Couneil on Foreign Investment during the eourse of tho review or the purchase," a ref­eroneo to tho federal panel that approved the deal. 
acknowledged tho Nazis' logal options Critics have cited 
New York's "We wouldn't turn about port security." 
World War II slaughter of 6 
over our customs 

million Jews, had faced up tocould include the UAE's history as
service or our 

10 years behind bars. Before lease for opera­border patrol to a financial base for the 
canceling the an operational and 
the verdict, Irving conceded tion, el'feetively hijackers who car­
he had erred in contending
foreign 

there were no gas chambers .
shutting out ried out the attacks
government." 

at the Auschwitz concentra­World rrom port addition, they con­
Dubai Ports of Sept. 11, 2001. In 
tion camp. "I made a mistake when I
activities. P&O Sen. Robert Menendez tend the UAE was an 
said there were no gas cham­
signed a 30-year New Jersey important transfer 
lease with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey in 2000 to oporate the Port Newark Container Terminal. 
The governors are the latest !llected ollieials from both parties to complain about the deal. 
llouse llomeland Security chairman Peter King, R-N.Y., has been one of the most vocal, saying secn1t assurances obtained by the government don't go far enough to protect the nation's ·seaports. 
Democratic New Jersey Sen. Hobert Menendez joined the cho­rus orcomplaints on Monday. 
"We wouldn't turn over our cus­toms serviee or our border patrol to a foreign government," Menendez said during a Monday news conference in Newark. "We shouldn't turn over the ports of tho United States, either." 
Menendez said he and Sen. 
Hillary Hodham Clinton, D-N.Y., will introduce legislation prohibit­

to three years in jail 
Irving appeared shocked as the sentence was read out. Moments later, an elderly man identifying himself as a family friend called out "Stay strong, David! Stay strong!" before he was escorted from the courtroom. 
Irving has been in custody since his Novelnber arrest on charges stemming from two speeches he gave in Austria in 1989 in whieh he was aecusnd of denying the Nazis' extermination of 6 million Jews. 
Irving, handcuffed and wearing a navy blue suit, arrived at the court carrying one of his most controversial books-"llitler's War," which challenges the extent of the lloloeaust. 
Throughout tho day, Irving sat quietly and attentively in the stilling courtroom. 
Irving's trial was held amid new -and fierce -debate over freedom of expression in Europe, where tho printing and reprinting of unflattering cartoons of the Prophnt Muhammad has triggernd violent protests worldwide. 
"Of course it's a questio11 of freedom of speech," Irving said. "The law is an ass." 
The court convitted Irving arter his guilty plea under the 1992 law, which applies to "whoever denies, grossly plays down, approves or tries to excuse the National Socialist genocide or other National Soeialist crimes against humanity in a print publication, in broadcast or other media." 
Austria was Hitler's birth­place and once was run by the Nazis. 
"He is everything but a his­torian ... lie is a dangerous falsifinr of history," Klackl said, calling Irving's state­ments an "abuse of freedom of speech." 
Klackl said the Austrian law dons not "hinder historical works." 
"You have to look at each ease individually," he said. "The point is, what is some­one trying to do'? It's the intent." 
ing the sale of port operations to 
foreign governments. 
Bush administration officials, 
including Homeland Security 
Secretary Michael Chertoff and 
Attorney General Alberto 
Gonzales, have defended the deci­
sion. 
During a stop Monday in · Birmingham, Ala., Gonzales said the administration had a "vtlry extensive process" for reviewing such transactions that "takes into account matters of national secu­rity, takes in to account concerns 
Associated Press 

VIENNA, Austria -Bight­wing British historian David Irving was sentenced to three years in prison Monday after admitting to an Austrian court that he denied the I-folocaust -a erime in the country where Hitler was born. 
Irving, who pleaded guilty and then insisted during his one-day trial that he now 
point for shipments 
of smuggled nuclear 
components sent to Iran, North 
Korea and Libya by a Pakistani · scientist. 
Frustration about the ports 
takeover put two Maryland 
gubernatorial candidates on the 
same side of an issue. 
During a campaign stop in 
Bladensburg, Md., Monday, 
Baltimore Mayor Martin O'Malley 
was adamant that the operations 
or his city's port not be turned 
over to the Arab-owned company. 
"I believe that President's 
Bush's decision to turn over the 
operations Qf any Ameriean port 
is reckless," said O'Malley, who is 
seeking the Democratic nomina­
tion to oppose Ehrlich in the 
Maryland governor's race. "We 
are not going to turn over the Port 
of Baltimore to a foreign govern­
ment." 

bers at Auschwitz," Irving testified, at one point expressing sorrow "for all the innocent people who died during the Second World War." 
Irving, stressing he only relied on primary sources, said he came across new information in the early 1990's from top Nazi oflicials -including personal docu­ments belonging to Adolf Eichmann -that led him to rethink certain previous assertions. 
But despite his apparent epiphany, Irving, 67, main­tained he had never ques­tioned the Holocaust. 
"I've never been a Holocaust denier and I get very angry when I'm called a Holocaust denier," he said. 
Irving's lawyer said he would appeal the sentence. 
"I consider the verdiet a lit­tle too stringent. I would say it's a bit of a message trial," attorney Elmar Kresbach said. 
State prosecutor Michael Klackl declined to comment on the verdict. In his closing arguments, however, he criti­cized Irving for "putting on a show" and for not admitting that the Nazis killed Jews in an organized and systematic manner. 
* HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
You can advance the Catholic Mission ofHoly Cross! 
HALL DIRECTORS NEEDED 



Coffee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
2006-2007 HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
Tuesday, February 21 7:30-9:30 p.m. 
GRAD STUDENTS 316 Coleman-Morse 
LAW STUDENTS 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members 


ndergraduates are also encouraged t 
of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Evmyone IS welcome and confidentiality IS assured. 

inquire about RA vacancies 
Cuffee and refreshments will be served 


CONTACT
THE STANDING 
COMMITTEE ON 
GAY &LESBIAN 


RESLIFE@HCC-ND.EDU
STUDENT NEEDS 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 12 Tuesday, February 21, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Ad absurdum 
1'/n lndqmuLmt, D4.ily N'"'IJI4/'6 Servi"f Notre Dam~ and Saint A£ni~ 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SI'ORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAI'HlCS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.J@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK · 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POliCIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, A<;.sisranr Managing Editors and depamnent editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q~astions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
T11c OI:Nocrvcr {USPS 599 l-4000) is published Monday through fflday e!l:cctpt ducing tx:atn and vacation periods. Asubscription to The Obs!:f'ler is $100 forone>~.Cademic year; $55 for one semester. 
1'he Observtr is publishcd.<u: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send .ad.dr~ -c:onmlom to: Notre: Dame. IN 46556-Qn9 Th< Oboervet l'"eriodial postage paid at Notte DAme PO. Box779 .and .additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Damt, lN 4M56-0n9 
The Ob~r is a member ofthe Associarcd Prm. All rq>roduction rights ar-t r~rvcd. 

Absurdity and eccentricity make life worth living. They are the weird quirks unique to a human person, experience or event. Mardi Gras is almost here; there will be music, dancing and of course, the parties. It is a holiday based around floats, beads, cos­tumes and booze. What could be more ridiculous and beautiful at the same time? Mardi Gras cap­tures the lust for life that should possess us all, from time to time of course. This rings particularly true this year at Mardi Gras. New Orleans bas been ravaged by Hurricane Katrina and is in the process of rebuilding one of America's most beautiful cities from a flooded wasteland. Yet the party will go on, and it will be one incred­ible party. 
The concept of the party is one of the greatest human inventions. The party is the perfect example of the absurd, which is why people instinc­tively refer to a good party as "ridiculous." To understand the party is to understand the absurd. Reveling is a conscious decision to forget about the cares of life and enjoy the fact that. despite it all, we are alive and have the ability to realize happiness, if but for a moment at a time. It is the libera­tion that spices the dish of life. Social conventions are scattered as ashes upon the sea of exuberance. Pretension and reserve wither away, and a visceral experience rises from their fetid corpses. At least that is what ha}'lpens at a good party; bad parties do have their share of people too self-important to let go of their prejudices, pride or pretension. To each their own, but who would want to go to some event inspired by the 

Ian Ronderos 
Liberated 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Victorian era or those wretched Puritans, who were nothing but deleterious for this country? 
Music is the most crucial element to any party. It uplifts the spirit and brings people together. Music is not by nature absurd, but at a party is often used as an instrument thereof. The spontaneous karaoke that occurs invariably at any party is often one of the more enjoyable experiences of the night. Music also provides the energy and raw power to proffer an environment where people feel free to let go and bring out their inner nature. The Rolling Stones said it best on "Rocks Off" from their "Exile On Main Street" album, when Mick Jagger snarls, "The sunshine bores the daylights out of me." Despite being a dedicat­ed sun-worshipper, it's the night where the real excitement comes. 
Dancing is a noble hobby that is present within the party. Taken objectively, 
the decision to gyrate 

[Mardi Gras] is a
the body in generally complementary and absurd motions is a holiday based tend to produce rather ridiculous concept. Yet around floats, colorful characters. put to music, and most Ultimately, it is these
beads, costumes
importantly enthusiasm, characters that make up it becomes a wonderful and booze. What the life of a fest and experience. Yes, many could be more indeed make life festive. of us, especially this People are the most
ridiculous and
writer, often look far important ingredient to more than comical beautiful at the any situation. So go when attempting to same time? forth and embrace that 
existence. Actions of ethical neutral­ity merely "are" until people assign categorizations to them. Nothing is inherently absurd if taken apart from the context of people's judg­ments. When one learns to love the absurd, he or she is helping to peel away the mists of his or her own perceptions. These perceptions of otherness are what make people feel uncomfortable or awkward. 
The human is an absurd creature by nature, yet his desire to live as a social creature causes him to fall into self-denial. Society has a clear interest in melding its limbs into a cohesive unit that can act in con­cert. When one no longer denies, conforms or hides, he experiences liberation. Since all people, except hermits, live within societies, absurdity must of course be bal­anced by a general affability and ability to cooperate with others. The 
absurd and the social 
are not mutually exclu­
sive; rather, they are 
dance. The act of the dance allows one to express himself or her­self, and different dances can con­vey the wide range of human emo­tions-e.g. the tango is clearly the dance of fire and passion, to "hippy dance" to the Grateful Dead is to know freedom and to rock out to Led Zeppelin is to understand power and freedom. 
Just have enough enthusiasm and confidence, and dancing becomes a sublime experience. Absurdity is transformed into bl:)auty; the act of dancing confirms the duality of our which is wild, ridiculous and embodied within Mardi Gras. 

Ian Ronderos is a senior majoring in the Classics with a supplemen­tary major in Ancient Greek and Roman Civilizations. Having retired from the College Republicans and adopted independent politics, he has entered the private life of peaceful contemplation. He can be contacted at irondero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
'Collateral damage' unacceptable 
The war in Iraq has had a devastating human toll. The collection of boots currently on display on South Quad dramatically shows the scale of the tragic loss of U.S. sol­diers. These deaths are in themselves tragic. However, what the news media, and certainly in the U.S. govern­ment, fail to point out is that for every American life that is lost in Iraq, more than 13 Iraqi civilians -men, women and children -are killed as a direct result of the conflict. This adds up to more than ten times the number of people killed in the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Some of these civilians are killed by roadside bombs. Many are killed in the crossfire between coalition troops and insurgents. Still others die when a coalition mortar hits the wrong target-or when the United States deems a target valuable enough to justify incurring "collateral damage." As of March 2005, an estimated 37 percent of civilians, nearly 10,000 people, were killed by coalition forces alone. 
The common factor in Iraq has been the view by the insurgency, the coalition and the American public of Iraqi civilians as expendable. In response to a question about civilian casualties, General Tommy Franks simply replied, "We don't do body counts." 

We should. 

Whether for or against the war, we must all agree that the civilian deaths should be included in the moral calcu­lus, with a weight equal to that given American fatalities. We must educate ourselves and others about the tremen­dous toll the war has had on ordinary Iraqis. Finally, we must put pressure on the government to start taking civilian casualties seriously. Only when an Iraqi person is seen as equal to an American can our country make a sound moral decision about its involvement in Iraq. 
Dan Hougendobler junior St. Edward's Hall Feb. 20 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Mary Kate Kate Gales Malone Eric Retter Do you think the College Peter Ninneman Jay Fitzpatrick Readership Program is the right Kaitlynn Riley Scene 
use for the student activities Viewpoint Mark 
fee increase? 

Alyssa Bemenderfer Brauweiler Graphics Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Kelly MacDonald 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
!Submit aLetter "It seemed rather incongruous that in a society ofsupersophisticated communication, we often suffer from a shortage of fisteners." 
... . . . •· . ·. ... ... .. .. .. .. '·' .. .· .. .. ~: 

~ to the Editor at I Erma Bombeck syndicated columnist
:www.ndsmcobserver.com t
1 . . . %· 
THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT

Tuesday, February 21, 2006 page 13 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Time to reexamine Jewish-Christian relationship 
"Now is tlw wintnr of our diseontnnt.." Thn opm1ing !inns of Shaknspeare's "Hichard Ill" surnly describn the intense diseussions in Tlw Obsnrver and on our campus about its Calholie character. During this wonk, our campus communi­ty will haw thn opportunity to sno a por­formanm of "Tiw Mnrehant of Venice," as wnll as a pl~rsonal mnditation on its principal characwr, Shylock, and a snries of films that focus on tho problem of Anti-Snmitism. 
Univnrsity Prnsidnnt Father John .lnnkins assun~d us that Notre Dame would nnvnr havn a publicly sponsored showing of thn "Obnrammagau Passion Play" or anything that promoted Anti­Smnitism hncausn it would not comport with the Catholic character. llis words aro roassuring to me and to other Jewish lllt>mbnrs of' thn faculty. Notre Dame is eommittml to tho mnssagn of Nostra Antatn. thn doeunwnt on non-Christian n~ligions that appnarod in the linal ses­sion of' tlw Vatican II Council. 
Ynt, tho problnm is morn eomplex, isn't it? l'ut in historic perspnctive, tho l9th­Clmtury idna of' racial anti-Semitism had a long pn~-history in tho art and litera­turn of' Christian J~uropn. "The Mnrchant of Wnicn" participates in many of those rwgalivn images. Scholars may claim that tho play is not "anti-Smnitie," but it sure­ly utilizns caricatures of Judaism that wnrn part and par<:el of' Christian judg­ments about Judaism. Why would Shylock demand a pound of llesh? Jews 
were reputed to consume the blood of 
Christian children -an accusation 
against Jews since the mid-12th century. Why were Jews separated from Christians into the Venetian ghetto? 
Because Christians perceived that they were "dangerous" and could corrupt Christian religion. The idea of the merci­ful God of Christianity is set in stark con­trast to the vengeful God of the Israelites worshiped by Shylock and his kin. This theological dichotomy has still not disap­peared from many Christian theological circles. 
Contemporary American Christians associate anti-Semitism with Nazi ideolo­gy and its raeist doctrines which declared Jews to be non-citizens of the Heich. The Nazis were racist in their approach to Jews and Judaism. This may permit the audience at Notre Dame to deelare that the Nazis were not Christians and dis­tance themselves from the play. 
Jews have a very difl'erent perspective. They see a more direct link between how Christian thinking about Jews prior to tho Vatican II Council and anti-Semitism. Jews were the target of an economic boy­cott during the first months after Hitler came to power. When the head of the Jewish community, accompanied by Father Bernard Lichtenberg of the Berlin Cathedral, approached Bishop Betram of 
U-WIRE 
Mental illnesses shouldn't be taboo 
Every morning I wake up and take 50 rng of' Lamictal. It's a mood stabilizer that is intendnd to help me control my emo­tions. or at least keep them from shooting up and down uneontrollably. I'm manie­deprnssive and have bmm lilr a numbor Travis or ynars now. Doyle Orif.,'inally, I had dndded that it was 
West Virginia 

sonwthing I eould 
University

work through on my 
The Daily 

own. This was a bad 
Athenaeum

idmt, but I did it any­way bncausn I W<L'> 
"strong" and I could "handle it on my own." Meanwhile, my emotional instabili­
ty WlL'i exhausting those I loved and those who loved me. Eventually, my freshman ynar, a frinnd dragged me to get help. While I hated it at first. it was the most wonderful thing anyone h<L'i ever done lilr 
me. Probably the biggnst rnason that I was afraid to seok help was that I was afraid that I might actually need it. Nobody adrniL'i to being depressed, sehiz­ophrnnie, bipolar or having anything of 
the liko. For somo reason this is a social taboo. Even having these disorders is a social taboo. The social fear of this type of disorder goes baek to a time when there wasn't trnatment lilr these problems. If sonwone was classilind with any problom likn this, they would be simply labnled as erazy and people would do their best to avoid them. For some rtHL'>On, that sodal stigma remains. But thnre arn some other facL<; to take into aceount now. For instance, according to WebMD, 15 per­cent of people sulli1r from dinieal depres­sion at some point in their lives. This doesn't indude bipolarism, schizophrenia, anxinty or any other disorder (although some of them tnnd to overlap, i.e. anxiety causing depression and vice versa). Unloss you live under a rock and only I nave to pick up a copy of the DA on Fridays, because my columns are that cool, you know somebody who suffers from one of these problems. So what do you do when you think you have a friend who suffers from something you can't understand (and he probably can't either)? Well, if he's not already seeking 
help, I recommend you encourage him to do so. Be supportive, be comforting, but remember that you don't have to be his emotional eruteh -there are trained pro­fessionals for that. If he doesn't want to take medication, then encourage him just to talk to someone. If he should be on medication, he'll come around -and realize how much happier he can be. I know that one of the reasons that I was afraid to take medication was beeause I thought it would change me. Psychiatric drugs will not change your personality. If somebody tells you that they will, kick them. Make the world a better place for your kids. If somebody changes in any way because of medication, it is because he wasn't himself in the frrst place. Treatment provides a way for people to take a dear look at their lives, possibly for the first time in years. If someone changes his personality in some way, it's because he wants to and, for the first time in a long time, ean. If you or anyone you know thinks they have some fiJrm of disorder, go talk to somnone. I ean already tell you what will happen. You will be told you're all right, that you do have some sort of problem that they ean treat, or that you simply have some stress that they ean help you with. In fact, the only way they can't help you is if you're perfectly fme. 
This column was originally published on Feb. 17 in The Daily Athenaeum. the daily newspaper at West Virginia University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
the German Bishops Conference, the reply was, "This is a matter of econom­ies, of measures directed against an interest group which has no very dose bond with the Church." Jews were just another economic interest group that had no kinship to Christianity. The link between Jews as an economic menace in the Nazi boycott found no resistance in the Bishop's letter. During the past 40 years, there has been a lively and con­structive conversation between our two religious communities about how closely Christian anti-Judaism and modern anti­Semitism are conjoined. 
I hope that these issues will be part of our campus culture this week. Jews and Judaism are rarely part of the public dis­course on this campus. During the 40th anniversary of Nostra Aetate in Oet. 2005, there was no public discussion of that document. When the lirst academic symposium for lirst-year students took place on the topic of peace in the Middle East, there were no Jewish speakers and no readings assigned by Israeli authors. When the Passion of St. John is read dur­ing Holy Week, will the students and fac­ulty think about how these readings have been understood by past generations of Christians -and how those sentiments have led them into very un-Christian atti­tudes? At the very least, maybe our com­munity will ask itself, "What does it feel like to be Jewish at the University of Notre Dame?" 

The answer to that question may lead us to the deepnr inquiry: llow shall Christians understand tho stalnmont by Pope John Paul II that God's covnnant with the Jewish People has "never bonn revoked?" Is it possible that at this Catholic University some of our theolo­gians and scholars will find a response to the call of Pope Benedict XVI when he declared at the synagogue in Colognn during World Youth Day that, "Jews and Christians should eomn to respnct onn another and love one another?" Tho answer will como about through a dia­logue between human beings who live in difl'nrent faith communities and havn very different voeabularies. 
I surely hope that a play that has become synonymous with tho worst st~lf<lotype of' tho .Jew may load us doopnr into a discussion of Catholk charactnr. The basic decency and fairness of our faculty and student body are capablt~ of' hearing a variety of voices which have been, and continue to be, exeluded. By listening to the voiens of those who cause us inner pain and challenge, can this community move beyond the comfortable walls that provide false protection by making the Other into an object'? 
Rabbi Michael A. Signer Abrams Professor ofJewish Thought aml Culture Feb. 20 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 




THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 


lsc~&fi&nl 
Reviewing for dummies 
Writing a movie review is kind of like ice skating; you see everyone out there slipping and sliding and you think, "That looks easy!" Then you give it a try and realize that, whoa, it's actually a lot harder than it looks. 
Anyone who's ever tried writing a movie review real­izes that it's a pretty tough thing to do. It isn't enough to say, "This movie sucks!" or "This movie rocks!" A good review is a well­reasoned argument, even though the basics of it seem pretty simple: "Did you like the movie? Tell why or why not. Be brief." 
That last point is important-ifbrevity is truly the soul ofwit, then a good review should feel in spirit like a gospel choir. Remember, though, that good films deserve more words than bad films. Nobody wants to read a 3,000-word dis­course on "Big Momma's House 2," espe­cially because it probably means you expended more effort reviewing it than the filmmakers did making it. 
We have a saying around The Observer office: "You're not Roger Ebert, so don't try to write like him." This is a little mis­leading, because it's not to say that the once-rotund Chicago Sun Times writer isn't a good critical role model. Readers respect Ebert's opinion because he's a seasoned professional with years of experience and a Pulitzer Prize for film criticism (the first of its kind). These same readers are less inclined to care about the opinion of a college kid who can't remember when George Lucas was considered a good filmmaker -unless said kid's writing is particularly articu­late and well-reasoned. 
Ebert gets away with stuff Observer critics couldn't. Some of his highlights include: 
'"Armageddon' reportedly used the services of nine writers. Why did it need any? The dialogue is either shouted one­liners or romantic drivel. 'It's gonna blow!' is used so many times, I wonder if every single writer used it once, and then sat back from his word processor with a contented smile on his face, another day's work done." ("Armageddon," July 1, 1998) 
And while something like that is clever­ly insightful and could thus be approxi­mated by an Observer critic, some of his other stuff couldn't: 
"I hated this movie. Hated hated hated hated hated this movie. Hated it." ("North," July 22, 1994) 
See, that's the writing of a Pulitzer­Prize winner. Get that far in your career, 

Brian Doxtader 
Assistant Scene Editor 

and then you can make such base judg­ment calls. Until then, there are a few basic guidelines for a good review, and I try to follow them in everything I write. 
1) Don't be stupid and don't be obvious. Seriously. Remember during the Fiesta Bowl when Troy Smith said that the best thing about Ohio State is that it's in Ohio? Not exactly a bastion of insight. Similarly, ifthe most insightful thing you can say about "Alien vs. Predator" is that there are aliens fighting predators, you're not exactly going to instill a reader's respect for your review. And please, avoid the obvious. If you think your audience knows it without being told, then they probably do. Your review shouldn't aim for the indisputable. It should go without saying that "Schindler's List" is great cin­ema and "Freddy Got Fingered" is not. So don't say it. 
2) Avoid hyperbole. While '"The Wedding Planner' is the greatest movie ever! Ah!" may truly be your opinion, there are a thousand better ways to phrase it, most of which will be consider­ably more effective. On a related note, try to avoid absolutes, especially cliches like "greatest film of all time" or the like, because we all know that "Raging Bull" is without doubt the fmest American film of all time. 
3) Don't be afraid to express your own opinions. It's like that episode of "Seinfeld" in which Elaine was the only person who didn't like "The English Patient." Life's like that sometimes. You're not going to like every critically­acclaimed and/or commercially-success­ful film. On the other hand, you're proba­bly going to like some films that are unpopular. It's okay to feel this way so long as your opinions are expressed in a way that allows a reader to understand exactly where you're coming from. 
On a similar note, be sure to scale your reviews accordingly -most reviewers give films too much credit. I myself have been guilty of this from time to time. In retrospect, 2.5 stars for "The Ring 2" was actually a gift worthy of the Magi. More important than that little star rat­ing (or clover rating, in our oh-so-clever­ly-Irish case) is the body of the review itself. The rating should reflect your gen­eral opinion, but the text is your more detailed justification. 
And that's it. Writing reviews can actu­ally be fun and rewarding. And don't worry about critics of critics. So long as you express yourself well, it's unlikely that anyone is going to slam your opin­ions. Unless, of course, you really think that "Freddy Got Fingered" is a better film than "Schindler's List." 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Tuesday, February 21, 2006 
DVD REVIEWS 

'Sin City: Recut' up 
By TAE ANDREWS 
Scene Critic 

"Walk down the right back alley in Sin City, and you can find anything." 
So the film ends. Pick the right chapter of the "Sin City: Recut, Extended, Unrated" two-disc DVD set, and fans can find whatever dark delight their twisted hearts desire. For viewers who like their violence bloody and their fiction pulpy, the film absolutely delivers as an over­the-top romp through the muck and mire of Sin City's vast criminal underworld. 
Housing the original theatrical version of the film on the first disc, the second splits the film up into its three distinct storylines, which follow the exploits of Sin City's three male protagonists, and also features the theatrical cut's prologue and epilogue -"The Customer is Always Right," featuring Josh Hartnett -spliced together. 
"That Yellow Bastard" chronicles the adventures of Hartigan, played by Bruce Willis, an aging cop who rescues a child named Nancy Callahan from a fate worse than death committed by hands of a vicious serial pedophile (Nick Stahl). 



Hollywood trio po 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Tim Burton. Danny Elfman. Johnny Depp. By themselves, they are unique, entertaining facets of Hollywood. But when their consid­erable talents are combined into a single picture, the results are often magical. 
"Edward Scissorhands" is considered to be a classic, and "Sleepy Hollow" is a solid, entertaining film. So when their collabora­tion was announced for "Tim Burton's Corpse Bride," expectations were high. 
Meant as a spiritual successor to "Nightmare Before Christmas," the movie explores similar themes and moods. A prin­cipal theme found in both is that appear­ances are not everything, as some of the spookiest characters are also the friendliest. 
The movie revolves around Victor Van Dort, voiced impressively by Depp. Victor is set to marry Victoria Everglot (voiced by Emily Watson) in an arranged marriage. Both of their families stand to profit from the union, and their future marriage appears to be going according to plan, despite the pair never having met. 
But through Victor's nervous bumbling, he After growing up and filling out, the now stunning Nancy (Jessica Alba) is agaiJ threatened by the vile Yellow Bastard now known for both his noxious odor an banana hue. 
In "The Big Fat Kill," Clive Owen play Dwight, a gun-toting player who protect his girlfriend Shellie (Brittany MurphJ from the advances of the abusive Jacki Boy (Benicio del Toro). After an unfortu nate and bloody misunderstanding in 01 Town, Dwight finds himself on a cover ops mission to protect his old flame Gai (Rosario Dawson) and her fellow femm fatales. 
During "The Hard Goodbye," Micke: Rourke stars as Marv, a bar-brawlin! knuckle-dragger looking for blood~ revenge after his one-night-stand Iove1 Goldie (Jaime King) is murdered. Marv·~ break-faces-first, ask-questions-rater approach to getting answers eventually leads him into a confrontation with Kevi (played by Elijah Wood), a cannibal wit creepy blue peepers. 
Given that "Sin City" was originally series of graphic novels created by Fran Miller, the true genius of the film "Sin City" lies in the ability of visionary direc tor Robert Rodriguez (along with Mille 
as a co-director) to encapsu late the comic book aesthetic. Rodriguez doesn't adapt the "Sin City" graphic novels to the big screen so much as bring the panels of the graphic novels to life. 
He does an especially grea job of capturing the comic­book feel in shooting the visual hyperbole of Sin Cit -appendages are blown off, fists smash through solid 
is dismissed from the wedding rehearsal to learn his lines. Entering the woods to rehearse, he accidentally encounters the Corpse Bride. 
Voiced by Helena Bonham Carter, the Corpse Bride is at first a creepy, suspicious character. She immediately pulls Victor into the land of the dead, a place where ghastly apparitions are a daily occurrence. Pursuing Victor relentlessly, she manages to lose vari­ous limbs and parts in the process, a trail that fails to endear her to him. 
As the film progresses, Victor finds himsel warming up to the cold bride. But wrinkle! in the plot unfold when Victoria fmds hersel in a less-than-desirable position after heJ fiance pulls a "Runaway Bride" less than 2L hours before her wedding. 
Fun and entertaining, the film sports deep er characters than the aforementionec "Nightmare Before Christmas." Each of th' protagonists has an overall plan supporte1 by realistic goals and dreams. Victor's moti vations never raise any questions, despit the absurd nature of his love triangle. 
"Corpse Bride" also succeeds as a musica supported by charming songs that shoul delight audiences, despite their ability 1 strike a dark note at times. "Remains of tl: 
Day" and "According to Plar are a few of the musical higl lights and are visually-pleasir spectacles to watch. A pian« duet performed in the lattE part of the film between Viet( and the Corpse Bride als stands out, despite the lack 1 any vocals. There is even· music-only track among th DVD's special features for thm interested in Burton's choice 1 images and sounds. 




------------------------------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
Tuesday, February 2 I, 2006 

Mickey Rourke plays the unstoppable Marv In "Sin City." Director Robert Rodriguez has released an extended DVD version that elaborates on each of the character's stories. 
briek walls and bullet holes are mere flesh wounds which serve more to mildly ineonvenience than to incapacitate the protagonists. 
1\vnn the lilm 's color schnme perfectly mimics the nxpnrience of turning pages at the loeal comic book store. Shot mostly in black and whitn, Hodriguez dashes on splashns of color to great nfTnct, such as Dwight's bright-red throwbaek Converse snnaknrs or Kevin's haunting blue-eyed stan~. 
Gritty voien-ovnrs by the main eharac­tnrs round out the 111m noir experience, as thn audienen rnally gets the feel of "thn big city" while traversing through the seedy bars and dark baek allnys of 
Wers 'Corpse Bride' 
Thorn arn a number of speeial features fhund on tho disk, which expound on several f1u:nLo.; of the film. They feature Tim Burton and thn stars who provided the voices, dnseribing the procnssns that were required in the completion of the film. llowever, none of the special featurns shed any new light, as tlw trieks to daymation have been chroni­dnd afrnady in many different venues. Minor details are rnvealed, such as the process of animating the Adam's apple on Vietor's throat, but nothing that really adds to tho 
left, Is set to marry the Corpse Bride In Tim Burton's latest Hollywood film. This marks the fourth collaboration between Johnny Depp, Tim Burton and Danny Elfman. 
Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 
Sin City. Hodriguez is in his element as he descends into the grimy underworld of Sin City. 
The rest of the DVD box set comes com­plete with a pair of commentary tracks by Hodriguez and various members of the cast, in addition to 47 minutes of fea­turettes covering Frank Miller, guest director Quentin Tarantino and the film's extensive use of special effects. 
All ip all, "Sin City: Recut, Extended, Unrated" contains enough sinful pleasure (and extra-feature goodies) to make even the most lapsed Catholic Notre Dame stu­dent eontemplate confession. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 
depth of the film. 

"Tim Burton's Corpse Bride" is a fun, visu­ally-entertaining movie. Hunning only 77 minutes, it stands on the short side when compared to standard Hollywood fare. Despite this hindrance, the film still man­ages to entertain and is another charming union of Burton, Dnpp and Elfman's consid­erable talents. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
page 13 

PLAY PREVIEW 
'SubUrbia' tackles hard issues 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Scene Writer 

It would seem to the average vinwnr that life in the suburbs is the ultimatn in 21st century disaffection. Modern films such as "American Beauty" and "Edward Scissorhands," or even Nicholas Hay's classic "Hebel Without a Cause," examine these smaller towns as hotbeds (or, rather, lukewarm-beds) of hypoerisy, inertia, dissatisfaction. oppression or all of the above. 
This weekend, anothei· look at the suburbs and their inhabitants eomns to eampus in the Washington Hall Lab Thcatnr -Eric Bososian 's "SubUrbia," performed by the Student Players. 
Directed by Notre Dame senior Cameron Hains, "SubUrbia" is a look at 12 hours in the Jives of a few token Gen-Xers with little to do other than stand outside a loeal 7-Eleven. Jeff, Sooze, Bee Bee, Pakeezah and the rest are average in most respects as they go through the motions of their daily lives as part of the MTV generation. 
This routine, however, is jarringly interrupted by the arrival of Pony, a former high school geek who has rein­carnated himself as a rock star. The way that each character reacts to his success, or rather to his escape from the lethargy of the everyday, is for Rains the essence of the work. 
"'SubUrbia' is a story of characters who are trying to escape, to be frne, to do something with their lives," Hains said in an interview with The Observer. "The thing is that none of them can get out, the street corner is a cage to their being. Everyday, they will gather at the corner and do seldom more than wax philosophical about the price of Oreos or the current state of world hunger." 
What's interesting for the average Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student, however, is that the honesty of the eharaeters' musings and struggles is very much in tune with their own com­mon experiences. College students could have trouble understanding the motivations of characters more likely to walk out of the convenience store in "Clerks" than the hallways of DeBartolo. But for the east, this is less likely than it seems. 
"It's sort of a flip side of the Domer coin," actor Stephen lloeplinger said. Hoeplinger plays Tim, a former Air 
Foree cadet and fnllow stnwt-eorrwr 
frequenter. 
"What makes it personal for me is that I see it as what would happen to Notrn Damn students if they didn't. go to eollege, if they just stayed honw and didn't try to do anything with thnir lives," lloHplinger said. 
Other east members son the play as a ehanee to examinn these eurrnnt times, with a tough look at thn eonvnntions of the average American small town. 
"The show centers around themes of unfulfilled ambition, idlennss and the su bseq unnt frustration and despair," Jennifer Betaneourt. who plays Soozn. said. "It is an aeeount of their lives which are spent in front of thnir loeal eonvenienco storn and their failure to lind moaning in an age of eonflieting values." 
By looking dosnly at thn eonfliet and inherent apathy of thesn times and these livns, however, the play deals with denper themes that strnteh aeross our own boundaries. 
"The play also dnals a lot with racism, violence, sox and other controversial and contemporary topics," said 1\lise Yahner, who plays Pony's publieist, a rich girl getting a tastn of the suburban life during her client's visit home. "Among all of this is humor, so this play has it all." 
American playwright Erie Bogosian wrote "SubUrbia" after writing a string of powerful one-man shows. Hains sees this, the playwright's first ensemble pieee, as something extremnly rnlevant for its current audinnce. 
"IThe playl has beeome a driving foren in my life, bncausn I believe that the characters carry with them mns­sages that resonate deep within the members of our generation," Hains said. "We find characters rnally asking the question that we as college students and adults are forced to confront, 'What am I going to do with my life? And is there really something bnttnr?"' 
To Hains, the play eouldn 't bn timelier in light of the reeont discussions of aea­demic freedom and Catholi<~ eharactnr. 
'"SubUrbia' is a show that stresses the importance of' Notrn Dame's aea­demic freedom and stands as an exam­ple as to what students and faculty may be forced to losn," Hains said. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of Cameron Rains Three actors play out a scene In the Student Players sponsored "SubUrbia." The production addresses contemporary Issues and Is set In modern times. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 21, 2006 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Syracuse upsets No. 14 West Virginia, 60-58 
No. 22 Sooners hold on, edge Texas Tech 
Associated Press 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. -Terrence Roberts gave the Syracuse Orange a jolt when they needed it most. 
The junior forward broke out of a three-game slump with 16 points and 10 rebounds, and Syracuse beat No. 14 West Virginia on Monday night, its first win this season over a ranked team. 
"When we play as physical and as active and energetic as we were, it's hard to stop us," said the 6-foot-9 Roberts, who had a total of 10 points and 12 rebounds in the three previous games. "Everyone was so calm and patient. We knew we could get whatever we wanted." 
Roberts, who had given the Orange a 58-55 lead with a dunk over Kevin Pittsnogle, took a feed from senior guard Gerry McNamara and hit a hook shot in the lane with 2:25 remaining for what turned out to be the winning basket. 
It was the fourth loss in five games.for West Virginia (18-8, 9-4 Big East), which won its first eight games in the conference. Syracuse (19-8, 7 -6), which had been reeling with five losses in six games, has won three of its last four. 
Eric Devendorf had 1 7 points for the Orange, who won despite one of the worst shooting games in the Carrier Dome of McNamara's career. l-Ie finished with five points on 2-of-14 shooting but had nine assists. Center Darryl Watkins had 10 points and nine rebounds. 
"It was the biggest win so far this year, and the reason was because we were so active in our zone," said McNamara, whose lone 3-pointer gave him 3 7 2 for his career, ninth in NCAA history. "In the second half, we just shut them down." 
West Virginia came in averag­ing over 72 points per game and was second in the NCAA with 10 3-pointers per game. The Mountaineers finished 12-for-33 from long range, but the ball didn't fall when it counted most. 
After Pittsnogle hit a 3 to tie it at 58-all with 3:57 left, he missed twice, Mike Gansey missed another, Joe Herber committed a turnover, and Patrick Beilein missed from way behind the 3-point line as the Syracuse zone stretched the shooters on the perimeter. 
"They were causing havoc," said Beilein, who scored all 18 of his points on 3-pointers but 

CLASSIFIEDS 
went only 1-of-3 from beyond the arc in the second half. "They were really extended. We just got mixed up on what we were running, which caused us to panic a little bit. It was a deep shot I had to take." 
"They weren't going to give us a 3," said West Virginia coach John Beilein, who fell to 0-8 in his career against Syracuse. "We should have put it inside, but nobody was there." 
The one time the Mountaineers tried, Herber couldn't handle a hard pass from Pittsnogle, and it slithered through his hands out of bounds 
under the basket for  a critical  
turnover  with  72  seconds  
remaining.  

"The last two possessions we did not do what we wanted to do," John Beilein said. "We were running a certain pattern, and one time we got confused. It just takes one person to get con­fused, and it throws everybody off. That's just the way it goes. We'll learn something from it. It's hard to do that in that atmosphere." 
Pittsnogle led West Virginia with 20 points, but Gansey, who was 5-of-6 on 3-pointers against Connecticut on Saturday, missed all six of his shots from long range against the Orange and finished with eight points. 
Both teams were playing on just one day's rest, the Mountaineers coming off an 81­75 home loss to then-No. 1 Connecticut and the Orange fresh from an important 79-66 home win over Louisville. 
After Watkins converted a give-and-go with McNamara to give Syracuse a 4 7-44 lead mid­way through the second half, the lead changed hands three times before the Orange defense clamped down. 
The Mountaineers, third in the Big East in free throw shooting at 7 4.1 percent, never even took one on Monday. Syracuse offi­cials said that had not happened to any team since the Carrier Dome opened in 1980. 
No. 22 Oklahoma 71, Texas Tech 70 
Kevin Bookout didn't even use his good hand to give No. 22 Oklahoma a victory over Texas Tech. 
"Amazing thing is he tipped it in with his left hand, and it's broken," Sooners coach Kelvin Sampson said of winning rebound basket with 4.5 sec­onds left Monday night. 
It was the only field goal for the Sooners (18-6, 9-4 Big 12) in the final 8 minutes and it came just over a minute after the Red Raiders (14-13, 6-7) had closed a 10-2 run to take a 70-68 lead. 
Michael Neal had 18 points for Oklahoma, while Jarrius Jackson led Texas Tech with 27. 
Jackson's 3-pointer with 1:30 left wiped out a 1 0-point deficit and brought the Red Raiders into a tie at 68. 
Martin Zeno made two free throws with 1:08 left to give Texas Tech a 70-68 lead. 
David Godbold of Oklahoma was fouled going for the rebound of his missed 3-pointer and made the second of two free throws with 55 seconds to play. , Darryl Dora of Texas Tech missed a short jumper and Oklahoma grabbed the rebound and called a timeout with 23 seconds left. Terrell Everett dribbled down the clock before driving for a jumper in the lane that bounced off the rim before Bookout, who finished with 12 points, converted the rebound. 
Jackson missed a final shot for the Red Raiders. The Sooners finished with a 45-24 rebound advantage. 
"We felt like if there was an area we could dominate, it would be the boards," Sampson said. "It's comforting to know we don't have to shoot well and we have a chance to make sec­ond and third shots." 
Texas Tech coach Bob Knight wasn't going to blame the loss on the final offensive rebound. 
"Any time a game is won at the end, you tend to put too much emphasis on what hap­pens at the very end," he said. 

Texas Tech took a 46-44 lead on a four-point play by Jackson. The Sooners went on a 16-4 run that included three straight 3­pointers from the same spot by Neal and another by Godbold to go up 60-50 with about 8 min­Everett added 10 points. Gonzaga. utes remaining. Tech answered Pierre Marie Altidor-Cespedes with a 13-6 run to pull within No. 5 Gonzaga 81, added a career-high 17 points 66-63 on a three-point play by Pepperdlne 71 for Gonzaga. Zeno with 3:42 left. Adam Morrison scored 26 With Kobe Bryant, Reggie 
"You look up and we're up 10, points and J.P. Batista had 16 Miller and a host of NBA scouts we miss a 1-and-1, we miss points and 13 rebounds as No. 5 in the crowd to watch Morrison, three free throws and it's like Gonzaga won its 14th straight the nation's leading scorer had a 'How do you lose a lead?'" game, a victory over Pepperdine relatively quiet night, going 7­Sampson said. on Monday night. for-17 from the field and 11-for-
Knight said Neal was tough to Gonzaga (23-3, 12-0) clinched 17 from the free throw line. stop. its sixth straight West Coast Morrison, who had a career­
"When you shoot the ball mov­Conference regular season title high 44 points on Saturday, ing as hard as you can going when Loyola Marymount lost to came into the game averaging towards the sideline and you Portland earlier Monday. The 29.4 points, a half-point ahead make it, there isn't a hell of a lot Bulldogs clinched a share of the of Duke's J.J. Redick. Morrison of defense you can use that's title on Saturday when they beat missed his first five shots on going to stop it," he said. Loyola Marymount. Monday, hit the next five in a 
Sampson said Oklahoma's The 14-game winning streak row, then missed five more offense centers around Neal and matches No. 6 George before making his last two. his quick release. Washington for the longest in Batista, who averages 19.5 
"Everything we had, we were the nation, and Gonzaga has points per game, was coming off running for Michael Neal," he won 21 consecutive conference a season-low six points. said. "He's not the best athlete games. Gonzaga opened a double­on the floor but he's a good bas­Tashaan Forehan-Kelly had digit lead to start the second ketball player." 2 5 points for Pepperdine (7-17, half, but Pepperdine closed to 
Taj Gray had 13 points and 13 3-9), which has lost five straight 52-48 on a layup by Willie rebounds for Oklahoma, while overall and 10 in a row to Galick with 11 :56 to play. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r-m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Kaplan: summer office help needed  3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web  For Graduation and Sports Events.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
WANTED  $7.00/hour 272-4135  site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary 574-993-2208 or grooms@ourweb­ 2BR Guest House. Fully furnished. 25 minutes from Campus, overlook­ PERSONAL  not go it alone.lf you or someone you love needs confidential support  
Civil Engineer- FOR RENT  spot.net  ing Diamond Lake. Owner lives next door. Low rates for  Spring Break 2006  or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at 1·7819. For more  
We are seeking May  COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINIUMS  longer rentals. 269-445-8468 or  with Student Travel  information, see our bi-weekly ad in  
2006 grads w/a BS in Civil  A 4 bdrm, 2bth newly remodeled  AVAILABLE FOR 06-07 SCHOOL  geok21751 @yahoo.com  Services to  THE OBSERVER.  
Engineering.  house near campus. $90,000. Call  YEAR. TWO BEDROOM, TWO  amaica, Mexico,  
Job  220-8666.  BATHS. HURRY. 235-7234 FOR  Rent furnished house-walk ND. 3  Bahamas and Florida.  Two weeks until the end of the  
functions consist of  MORE DETAIL.  students $300; 4-$275 + utilities.  Do not get left  world as we know it.  
land development  WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM  ADT. 574-309-3105.  behind!  
engineering for  HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM  A 4 bdrm, 2bth house near campus.  Book now,  Spring break, don't go to Cabo,  
Site/Civil firm in  532-1408  All appliances included.  515 St.Joe: 7 bdrm,area of student  limited space  don't go to Bermuda. We're going to  
Indiana and  Pets welcome. $1350.  rentals, $1200/mo. 574-250-7653  available.  the Redneck Riviera, Panama City,  
Florida.  Stop overpaying for rent. Visit  Call 220-8666.  Call for group  baby.  
Please send all  BlueGoldrentals.com  1-7 bdrm. homes starting@  discounts.  
resumes and  2·3-4 BEDROOMS. Immediate &  $200/student, 24-hr.maint.,free pool  Info/Reservations  No milk will ever be our milk.  
questions to  123 NO Ave. 3-bdrm, 1.5 bath. Call  2006-07. Security,phone included.  tables, 1st mo.free. Call574-250­ 800-648-4849  
mhoward@ rw-engineering.com  574-229-0149.  315-3215. ndstudentrentals.com  7653 or visit bluegoldrentals.com  www.ststravel.com  Bullets dodge Chuck Norris.  


----~-----­
Tuesday, February 21, 2006 The Obsm,er + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
Welcomes 



JON M. HUNTSMAN 

A self-made billionaire whose success carried him to Forbes' list ofAmerica's wealthiest people. His career has been built on the foundations learned in childhood ... share success, take responsibility, and give back. Instead of retiring with his wealth, he uses it to support charity. 
A mix of A Purpose Driven Life and All I Really Need to Know I Learned in Kindergarten, this is the ~rst book to capture the essence of"the right way to succeed . in business." 
Wharton School Publishing 
A SELF-MADE BtLLJONAIHE SPEAKS OUT ON HONESTY AND lNTEGRJTY 
·.· 
..... ·.·.·.:·.

.. .;.
~
'w 



Everyday Values We Learned as Children (But May Have Forgotten) 
JON M. HUNTSMAN 
Foreword by larry King Afterword by Neil Cavuto 







OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, February 21, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE Ot)SERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 16 
Men's NCAA Basketball Coaches Top 25 
team  record  pts.  
1  Duke  25·1  770  
2  Villanova  21-2  730  
3  Memphis  24·2  706  
4  Connecticut  22·3  700  
5  Gonzaga  22·3  645  
6  George Washington  22·1  594  
7  Texas  22·4  568  
8  Illinois  22·4  497  
9  Florida  22·4  433  
10  Pittsburgh  20·4  473  
11  Tennessee  19-4  457  
12  Ohio State  19·4  431  
13  Boston College  21·5  428  
14  NC State  21-5  366  
15  West Virgi,nia  18-7  298  
16  Michigan State  19-7  280  
11  UCLA  20,6  263  
18  Kansas  19·6  233  
19  Washington  20,5  19  
20  Oklahoma  17·6  178  
21  North CaroIIna  17-6  167  
22  Iowa  20;7  147  
23  Georgetown  17·7  141  
24  LSU  18·7  99  
25  George Mason  21·5  48  

Women's NCAA Basketball Coaches Top 25 
team record pts. 
1 Duke 22·1 764 
2 North Carolina 2H 727 
3 LSU 22-1 726 
4 Maryland 22-2 662 
5 Tennessee 22·3 621 
6 Connecticut 22·3 614 
7 Ohio State 21-2 607 
8 Rutgers 19~3 591 
9 Oklahoma 21·4 508 
10 Purdue 20·3 502 
11 Baylor 11-5 421 
12 Stanford 18·5 396 
13 Georgia 17-6 387 
14 Michigan State 1H 335 
15 DePaul 20·5 308 
16 Minnesota 17·6 302 
17 Arizona State 20·5 301 
18 BYU 20·2 216 
19 New Mexico 16•6 197 
20 Boston College 19·6 183 
21 Vanderbilt 17-8 177 
22 Temple 18·6 118 
23 Texas A&M 19·5 106 
24 Louisiana Tech 18•4 104 
25 Bowling Green 20·2 33 
MIAA Women's Basketball 
team overall conf. 
1 Hope 24-1 16-0 2 Calvin 21-3 14-2 3 Albion 17·8 9-7 4 SAINT MARY'S 11·14 9-7 5 Olivet 12·13 8-8 6 Alma 12·11 7-9 7 Adrian 9·15 4·12 8 Kalamazoo 7-16 4·12 9 Tri-State 2-23 1-15 
around the dial 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
Illinois at Michigan, 7 p.m., ESPN Xavier at Dayton, 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 Alabama at Arkansas, 9 p.m., ESPN 
WINTER OLYMPICS -TURIN 
8 p.m., NBC 
MLB 


Associated Press 

FORT MYERS, Fla. He was the smooth voice of sports history, a wel­come companion who brought listeners Ted Williams' last home run, the first Super Bowl and dozens of other dramatic moments. 
Curt Gowdy, who died Monday, told generations of Americans about the games they loved from the broadcast booths at 13 World Series, 16 All­Star baseball games, numerous Rose Bowls and the 1976 Montreal Olympics. 
"He was the first super­star of sports television because he did all of the big events," veteran NBC broadcaster Dick Enberg said. "He's the last of the dinosaurs. No one will ever be the voice of so many major ev-ents at the same time ever again." 
Gowdy died of leukemia at his winter home in Palm Beach. He was 86. 
It all started as he sat on a box, with his micro­phone on another box, for his first play-by-play -a six-man football game in Cheyenne, Wyo., in subze­ro temperatures in 1944. 
Before cable television 
IN BRIEF 
Czech cross-country skiing
coach fired for error 
TURIN, Italy -The Czech Republic fired cross-country coach Kvetoslav Zalcik on Sunday after he inadver­tently submitted the wrong name for the final leg of the men's Olympic 4x10 km relay race. 
"It's a very hard mistake he made, and the result is he got fired and he will go home," Czech Olympic Committee spokesman Jan Martinek told The Associated Press. 
Martinek said the Czech Olympic team discussed possible options "for this bad situation that occurred after the race. It's a really bad result for the Czechs." Ultimately, officials decided to dismiss Zalcik, who Martinek said had been in the job for 10 years. 
Zalcik accidentally wrote in sprint specialist Dusan Kozisek instead of Milan Sperl for the fourth and final leg. 
Kozisek, who doesn't normally ski distance events, was in bed in nearby spawned a new breed of announcer -those who use shouts and hip phras­es instead of subdued sounds and straightfor­ward description Gowdy was a star who just wanted to tell a story, a well-liked man who stayed that way as his fame grew. 
He brought a warm feel to the broadcast booth, his commentary full of good humor and enthusi­asm. 
He once said, "I tried to pretend that I was sitting in the stands with a buddy watching the game, poking him in the ribs when something exciting happened. I never took myself too seri-ously. An announcer is only as good as yester­day's performance." 
In his 1960 essay "Hub Fans Bid Kid Adieu," pub­lished in The New Yorker, John Updike said Gowdy sounded like "everybody's brother-in-law." 
Gowdy spent 15 years as the Boston Red Sox main play-by-play announcer from 1951­1965. He left the Red Sox for a 10-year stint as the baseball broadcaster on NBC's "Game of the Week" through 1975. 

Sestriere when the squad left for Pragelato and had to hustle to the venue and borrow skis to compete. He arrived at the Pragelato Plan course about 30 minutes after the relay start­ed. Kostelic sets women's 
Olympic record for medals 
AN SICARIO, Italy -An ailing Janica Kostelic didn't even plan on skiing the super-G. She did, though, and the Olympic record book will never be the same. 
Kostelic's silver Monday was her sixth Alpine skiing medal -her sec­ond in as many races here and a new career record for a woman. 
The 24-year-old Croatian still has a pair of events to go, health permitting. 
"For now I have six and we will see. Even if I quit now I would be happy," Kostelic said. 
Her four golds -one here and three in Salt Lake City in 2002 -are another record, 
Austrian Michaela Dorfmeister fol­lowed her downhill victory with her second gold medal of these games, covering a relatively easy super-G course in 1 minute, 32.47 seconds. New look Marlins open
spring training in Florida 
JUPITER, Fla. -Josh Beckett's old No. 61 now belongs to someone named Reggie Abercrombie. 
A.J. Burnett's No. 34 is worn by a rookie pitcher, Scott Olsen. And wearing Carlos Delgado's No. 25 is the new manager, Joe Girardi. 
There was a different look to the Florida Marlins on the first day of spring training Monday, when pitch­ers and catchers worked out and worked on learning each other's names. 
"Fortunately we have names on the jerseys," said Girardi, one of many newcomers on a team filled with them. Seven everyday regulars and three top pitchers departed in a pay­roll purge, and the new manager began his search for replacements with a rigorous workout -at least by baseball standards. 
----------~---------~------­
Tuesday, february 21, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NBA 

Races heat up for scoring title, playoff seeds 
defending champions in the be in there, but home-court or All-Star game MVP LeBron
Mavericks, Bryant top 
conference semifinals -but advantage is nice." James, the focus is on buildingheadlines as the season might have to go through Kobe At least the Mavericks have on strong first halves and Bryant just to gel thnre. securn playoff position. Despite avoiding the kinds of late-sea­resumes on Thursday In ease anyone forgot, Bryant their individual brilliance in the son struggles that cost James a seored 62 points in three quar­first hall', Bryant and Allen playoff spot last year.
Associated Press 
ters of a game against the Mavs Iverson have no such guaran­But for others, there's plenty 
Being orw of tlw best in the this snason. tnes. of work to do. Wnsl might not bo good enough "You can get an eight seed The races for the West and The Mavericks (41-11) have for Dallas. and it'd be the bnst seed you scoring titles will be among the the b(~St record in the Wnsl, but 
Finish soeond in tlwir eonfer­ever had, and get a one seed biggest story lines when the they are only a game ahead of I'IICI', and tlw Mav•~rieks likely and be dreading the matehup, NBA returns from the All-Star San Antonio. Because both opPn the se•~ond round in San so it doesn't really matter," break to start the second half of teams play in the Southwest Antonio. Win the West and Mavericks guard Jason Terry the season Tuesday night. Division, the team that finishes Dallas still probably gnls the said. "We're delinitnly going to For some, such as the Pistons· second can earn no better than 
Now, all your incoming calls can be free. 
'------tEven the 5 calis 
from your girlfriend 
in the last 20 minutes.)a------___......... 
Free CALL MESM Minutes 
(in your local calling area) 

Offer valid on two·year service agreement on local and regional plans of $39.95 or higher. All service agreements subject to an eru1y termination lee. Credit approval required. $30 activation fee. $15 equipment change fee. Roaming charges, fees, surcharges, overnge charges and taxes apply. $0.96 Regulatory Cost Recovery Fee applies. This Is not atax or government-required charge. Local network coverage and reliability may vary. Usage rounded up to tile next full minute. Use of S6fVice constitutes acceptance of our terms and conditions. Unlimited Night and Weekend Minutes valid Monday through Friday 7:00 p.m. to 6:59a.m. and all day Saturday and SUnday. Night and weel<end minutes are available In local calling area only. Free CALL MF" Minutes are not deducted from package minutes and are only available when receiving calls in your local calling area. Local calling area dtflers from national calling area. Use of the AIJl• lns1ant Messenger'" service mobile application requires easyedge'M data serviceS. 30-Day Guarantee: Customer is responsi­ble lor any charges Incurred prior to return. 102005 Del Jam Mobile and AG lntemctlve are trademarks and service mar1<s of their respective owners. All rights reserved. Other restnctions apply. See store for detalls. Llmrted hme offer. @2006 U.S. Cellular Corpomtion. 
the No. 4 seed. 
Neither wants to be the team 
that has to open the second 
round in the other's arena. 
"That's a tough situation, but 
it is how it is set up and peoph~ 
are going to have to play for it." 
Spurs All-Star Tim Duncan 
said. "We're going to try to play 
and play for that No. 1 spot and 
try to work it from there." 
Lurking as a potential 11rst­
round opponent for one of them 
are the Lakers. Seeing Bryant 
would be particularly scary for 
the Mavs, who have allowed 
him to average 43 points 
against them in three games, 
including that 62-point night. 
"We tried a lot of things that game, but he's just that good," Dallas' Dirk Nowitzki said. "When his shot is on he's so tough to guard. So we've got to pressure up on him, but tlwn he's got one of the quickest first steps that I've ever snen and he just goes by you. lie's the toughest matchup probably on the perimetnr in tho lnague." 
Bryant is averaging 35 points, 
with Iverson at :n.2 and James 
at 31.2. The NBA hasn't had 
three players average 30 or 
more points since 1982, when 
George Gervin beat out Moses 
Malone and Adrian Dantley to 
win the scoring title. 
That hasn't translated to 
nearly mwugh wins for Bryant 
or Iverson. Thren teams are 
within 2 1/2 games of Los 
Angelns for nighth in the West, 
while Philadelphia is just two 
games ahead of Chicago for the 
East's last playoll' spot. 
"I want to win a ring," Iverson said. "I want to havn the opportunity to get back to the Finals, but I just have to take it one day at a time, and understand that it can happm1 -and I always believe that. Onee I stop believing thn goal can be aeeomplislwd, thnre is no nned to keep dressing up nvnry night. All that rnattnrs is us getting into t.lw playoffs, becausn then, anything can happen." 
Jamns appnars ready to get his eharu:e. ;\ late-season <~ol­lapse kept Clnv.-land out of tlw playoffs last year, but with a better supporting cast sur­rounding one of tlw NB/\'s most talented players, a nqwat seems unlikely. 
"Tlwy got a morn experi­enced team than tlwy did last year," Wizards guard (;illwrl Arenas said. "lin's in -his third year now, thn players he's got around him is in tlwir third, tlw young ones. So tlwy got olc!Pr piocns now that won't let that happen." 
The trade doadlinn is Thursday, and orw look at tlw Pistons shows tlw diiTernru·n tlw right dnal •~an make. Tlwy acquired Hashond Wallace at th•~ dnadline two ynars ago, and all thny'vn donn siru~n is win a title, nnarly ropnal. last ynar. and gnt ofT to one of' tlw lwst starts in lnagu.-history this season. 
"It ddinitnly hnlped our team," said Bnn Wallace, orw of' Detroit's four /\11-Stars. "I think it hoI p n d nv~~ r y hod y on o u r tnam get lwttnr. lin played a major rolo in us winning a championship, so wn'rn glad it happmwd." 
;\ pair of intriguing returns arn on tap for tlw second half'. The llorru~ts play tlwir first of' throe ganws in Nnw Orleans on Man:h 8 whnn they host tlw Laknrs. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 21, 2006 
WINTER OLYMPICS -TURIN 




Miller still looking for first Olympic medal 
Pre-games star has struggled in his first four downhill events 
Associated Press 
SESTRIERE, Italy -All those Olympic medals Bode Miller insists he can live without? Turns out he also believes they could just as easily be his. 
Instead, they're going to other skiers -and other countries. 
Miller is down to one final chance at the Turin Games after tying for sixth in the giant slalom Monday, when Benjamin Haich ended his own string of Olympic disappointments by leading a gold-bronze Austrian finish. 
Through four of five men's Alpine races, Miller has finished no better than fifth place in the downhill. He was leading the combined when he was disqual­ified; he didn't finish the super­G after slamming into a gate. 
"If things went well," he told The Associated Press, "I could be sitting on four medals, maybe all of them gold." 
Asked if a common thread could tie together his results at these games, Miller offered a race-by-race assessment. 
In the downhill, he said, "the other guys just found more speed." He accepted "pilot error" as reasons for his prob­lems in the combined and super-G. In the giant slalom, Miller said, he had "a little bit of bad luck" in the first run, when he hit a rock early, then made a trio of errors in the second. 
After each run Monday, the 28-:v.ear-old from Franconia, N.H., doubled over, hands on knees, gasping for air. 
"Against those guys right 
now," he acknowledged as he walked away from the hill and toward his private RV, "that won't do." 
Twelfth after the opening giant slalom leg, Miller did ski a strong second leg. For several skiers, he even watched from the leader's perch at the bottom of the mountain, mugging for the camera, sticking his tongue out, chatting with another skier. 
Then, one by one, Miller's rivals bested his time. 
Raich had the fastest second run and finished with a total time of 2 minutes, 35 seconds on a course drenched in sun fol­lowing two days of heavy snow­fall. Joel Chenal was 0.07 back for France's second medal of the Olympics, and Austria's Hermann Maier boosted his personal take to two medals with the bronze, 0.16 off the pace. 
Until Monday, Raich was hav­ing his own problems at Sestriere. 
He wasn't picked for Austria's downhill squad, straddled a gate when he was seconds from gold in the combined and was 21st in the super-G. Still, he said he felt no extra pressure. 
"I do not have to prove to any­body anymore that I know ski racing," said Raich, who won two bronzes at Salt Lake City four years ago. 
About an hour after he and Maier won gold and bronze, Austria raised its Alpine haul to nine medals when Michaela Dorfmeister and Alexandra Meissnitzer finished 1-3 in the women's super-G. a few moun­tains away. 
The United States, meanwhile, is stuck on one medal: Ted Ligety's gold in the men's com­bined. He'll be among the favorites in Saturday's slalom, 


AP 

U.S. downhill skier Bode Miller clears a gate during the second run of the Giant Slalom Monday. 
Miller took sixth in the event. 

the last Alpine event and Miller's last medal hope. 
Ligety missed a gate in the giant slalom's first leg, as did Miller's co-headliner on the U.S. Ski Team, lower-key Daron Rahlves. 
Owner of 12 World Cup wins and a 2001 world title, Rahlves was thought to be a serious medal contender at his final Olympics. Yet the 32-year-old Californian will retire with noth­ing better than a seventh-place finish from seven races over three Winter Games. 
"I really felt like we had a chance, where we could bring medals back down in every event. I'm just shaking my head at it right now," Rahlves said. "If you get a gold medal in the Olympics, it doesn't matter what else you've done." 
Miller, one of the few stars from any nation entered in all five Alpine races, leaves little doubt he doesn't share that phi­losophy. 
Over and over, he's said it's more important whether he feels good about a race than whether he was good enough to beat everybody else. He calls satisfying "my subjective crite­ria" his biggest concern ­rather than the "objective result" measured by the clock. It's more true to the Olympic spirit, he's said. 
"He's of the mind-set he wants to inspire with great skiing," 
U.S. Alpine director Jesse Hunt said, "and he's not really focused on the results." 
His father, Woody, had a dif­ferent take, saying Miller's atti­tude is more like "What am I going to do with a gold medal?" 
"He has this ambivalence with succeeding," the elder Miller said, sitting in the stands at Monday's race. "It's part of who 
. " ..

he ts. 


Austrian ski coach leads police on chase, crashes car 
ication and other substances, pended. Mayer and Volker Mueller, the Biathlon coach Alfred Eder con­
Walter Mayer had 

the national news agency ANSA The Austrian Ski Federation German chiropractor who pre­firmed that Mayer sp.ent the been banned for 2002 reported, quoting unidentified said Sunday night it had ended scribed blood treatments in night in the athletes' accommo­investigative sources. One its relationship with Mayer, 2002, were banned by the IOC dations, but only the night after
blood doping charges Austrian athlete threw a bag effective immediately. In a brief from the Turin Olympics and he arrived. 
out of a window containing nee­statement, federation president the 2010 Vancouver Games. At a news conference, Associated Press dle!? and medicines, and Mayer Peter Schroecksnadel cited the WADA doping control officers Ljungqvist held up a postcard apparently left the scene in a accident as the reason. He did went to the Austrian cross­showing Mayer in an Austrian 
The banned Austrian ski minivan, ANSA said. not elaborate. country training camp in Olympic biathlon team photo. coach at the center of a doping The chain of events in Austria In the first ever 'doping raid Ramsau last month and found He said that while Mayer's pres­investigation at the Turin started when Mayer pulled over by police on similar doping ence in Italy didn't break the Olympics crashed his car into a to the side of the road and took Olympic athletes, equipment, IOC ban, it violated the "spirit" police roadblock Sunday a nap in his car, a police state­Italian authorities "/find it infuriating WADA and roc of the decision to keep him out evening after leading authori­ment said. said they seized officials said. of the games.
that someone like
ties on a bizarre chase. A suspicious local resident materials in the WADA then The involvement of police is in
Walter Mayer 
Walter Mayer was slightly alerted police that a man was search on the learned that line with Italian law, which injured in the accident, in sleeping in a car with the Austrians' private shows up here.,, Mayer -who treats doping as a criminal which he struck an unoccupied engine turned off, and when lodgings. Six skiers was not accred­offense. Any doping case would police car set up as an officers arrived on the scene to and four biathletes ited for the be investigated and prosecuted
Wolfgang Schuessel 
impromptu barrier in the town wake him up, Mayer sped away, were rousted and games -was by Italian magistrates. 
Austrian Chancellor
of Paternion in the southwest­striking and slightly injuring an taken for out-of­with the team at The raids came just before ern province of Carinthia, about officer, the statement said. competition tests the Turin midnight Saturday, when police 15 miles from the Italian fron­The officers on the scene then by the International Games and noti­swarmed a home rented by the tier and some 250 miles from called for backup, and authori­Olympic Committee, hours fied the IOC, which tipped off biathlon team near the moun­Turin, police said. He was taken ties parked an empty police before some were due to com­Italian police. tain hamlet of San Sicario; a into protective custody. vehicle across the highway as a pete. "The fact he was in the same similar search was conducted at 
Mayer was returning to his roadblock. Mayer slammed into No one has been arrested, area as the athletes created quarters in nearby Pragelato. native Austria just hours after the squad car, totaling both and test results of seized mate­quite some concern to us," roc The athletes were taken by IOC Italian authorities searched vehicles. rials were pending. medical commission chief Arne doping control oflicers to near­Austria's biathlon and cross­Police said Mayer refused to "To be completely frank, I find Ljungqvist said. by Sestriere for tests. country team quarters for take a blood-alcohol test, which it infuriating that someone like The Italian national news Officers "confiscated material banned substances. Police acted an officer requested after Walter Mayer shows up here," agency ANSA quoted unidenti­of various origin ... which will on a tipoff that Mayer -who Mayer showed signs of intoxica­Austrian Chancellor Wolfgang fied judicial sources as saying have to undergo laboratory was accused of blood doping at tion. Schuessel said from Sestriere in Mayer had been put under analysis," Col. Angelo Agovino. the 2002 Olympics while he was It was unclear whether he an interview with state broad­investigation by magistrates on commander of the Carabinieri Austria's Nordic team coach -would face criminal charges, caster OHF Sunday evening. suspicion of encouraging the police force in Turin, said. lie was with the team. and authorities declined to say "Dozens of Austrian athletes use of banned substances. did not elaborate. 
Italian police seized blood whether they searched his vehi­have been preparing for their Austrian officials said Mayer Heinz Jungwirth, general sec­analysis· equipment during the cle for doping substances or whole lives to reach this sum­had been in Italy in a private retary of the Austrian Olympic raids, as well as syringes, vials equipment. Mayer's driver's mit, and then something like capacity and had no official Committee, said "certain medi­of distilled water, asthma med-license was provisionally sus-this happens," he said. connection with the team. cines" were confiscated. 

Tuesday, February 21, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
WINTER OLYMPICS -TURIN 
U.S. women's hockey takes Qlympic bronze 

Canada defeats Sweden to earn gold medal victory 
grab hnr by thn !lag and drag with the U.S., but Canada still nothing. There's no other medal could stand still. 
Impressive offense 
her to the locker room. The 40-sent upstart Sweden home with to win in this tournament. That's Arter singing along to "()leads to 4-1 triumph year-old knew she probably the same thrashing it had the pressure we put on our­Canada," the Americans and 
won't skatn for Canada again -planned for its American arehri­selves. We're just happy we can Canadians shook hands and 
and she'll never skate for a team vals. land in Canada with everybody huggnd. Sadly, it was their only Associated Press 
as good as the Canadians who When the fourth goal bulged smiling." mooting of the Olympics. 
TUHIN, Italy -Daniello dominated Turin to win the Swedish goalie Kim Martin's net, The relentless forechecking, Jayna lleiTord added a goal (;oyntte wanted to skatn drdns Olympie women's hockey tour­she shrugged her shoulders heady passing and sturdy and an assist, while Caroline around this monwnt forever, nament. slightly and looked straight defense -improbably ques­Ouellottn and Cherie Piper also wearing a gold medal around Thny scored with pinpoint ahead -perhaps all the way to tioned by the Swedes before-contributed goals as Canada hnr nnck and waving a Canadian passes and dazzling pirouettes, Vancouver in four hand were dominatnd the first two periods flag wildly over hnr !wad. soft wrist shots and firm tip-ins. years, when the practically flaw­against Sweden. Gunilla 
Tlw thrne-timn Olympian's The victory Monday night wasn't world might stand less in a game just Andersson scored just tho sec­tnammatns eventually had to the rmnatch everyone expected a better chance. "We showed as one-sided as ond goal of the tournamnnt 
"We showed every other in
/Iockey Canada is 
Hockey Canada is their march
dominant."
dominant," Goyette through Italy by a said. "This makes combined scorn of it worth everything Danielle Goyette 46-2. we did, all the When it was
Canadian player 
months we spent working on this day. We didn't end up with the f'inal matchup we expneted, but we got the same result." 
Behind Martin, the 19-year-old puck-stopper extraordinaire, Sweden managed a 3-2 shootout win over the U.S. on Friday in a semifinal immediately called the biggest upset in the sport's histo­ry. 
But starting with Gillian Apps' goal on a surreal blind back­hand just 3:15 into the gold medal game, the Canadians showed their game would bn the same, regardless of the oppo­nent. They had worked too long -for nearly seven months straight-and much too hard to leave with anything but dupli­eates of their Salt Lake City golds. 
"To defend the gold for our team and every Canadian baek home is huge," said Hayley Wiekenheiser, the tournament MVP. "For us, it's all gold or 
over, the 
Canadians roared 

off their beneh and hit goalie Charline Labonte so hard that they dislodged the net from its moorings. Goyette jubilantly threw her glove and stick in the direction of the over­head scoreboard, while Wickenheiser held her adopted son, Noah. 
The Americans, who beat Finland 4-0 in the bronze-medal game earlier, gratefully received their medals on the ice after Canada's Meghan Agosta and Jennifer Botterill finished dis­playing a Canadian 11ag sewn to an Italian flag. 
"It's far and away the host team I've ever played for," defenseman Cheryl Pounder said. "We saw all the sweat going into it. and that's why all the tears eamn to tho surface at the ond." 
Several Canadians wept while getting their rnodals -Pounder erying the most, just as in Utah four years before -and none against Canada in the third, ruining Labonte's shutout bid long after the Swndes still had a chance. 
Their hope was frozen early at a rink kept chillier than a Canadian prairie wind to improve the ice quality. Frostbitten lingers didn't deter the hundreds of proud Great White Northerners who drank hot chocolate, wrapped them­selves in beach-towel-sized maple leaf flags and rang cow­bells amid chants of "Go, Canada! Go!" 
The Canadians now have two golds and a silver from three Olympie women's hockey tour­naments. The Swedes have their nation's best finish in an inter­national nvent-and judging by their wide smiles as they received silver mndals, thny'ro thrilled with that. 
Swndon already had won its biggest prize in thn smnifi,utls. Before Friday, 1wither North Ameriean team had ever lost in an international tournanwnt ­exc:ept to eaeh other. The shock­er was tough for the U.S. but a welconw dnvelopmnnt for a sport nnduring grumbles about the huge parity gap stretching across the Atlantie Ocean. 
American team skates past Finland 4-0 for medal round victory 
Associated Press 
TUHIN, Italy -Kalin King wislins slw eould 'vn thrown her glovns in the air likn a gradua­tion cap and jumpo~l into a piln of lwr tnarnmatns on thn ien. 
lnstnad. slw and thn rnst of thn U.S. wonwn's hoekey loam had to sntlln for sonw hugs ­and a hronzn nwdal. 
King scornd two of hnr three goals in thn lirst pnriod to givn the Americans a thren-goal lnad and thny glidml to a vieto­ry ovnr (.'inland on Monday, playing in a third-plaee game thny would've rather watc~hed 
on  TV  from  their  drnssing  
room.  
"It's  hard  to  bn  nxeited  

becausn we eame for gold," for­ward Kim Insalaco said. "We worn living in disbnlief the last two days, and wn had to gnt over it. We wanted to play in thn X:30 gamn tonight. 
"That's going to b1~ there for a whiln, and it's going to bn hard to gnt ovnr." 
One~ ganw too late, the U.S. hustlnd to loosn pucks, linished dweks and showcased supnrior tahmt in a dominating perforrn­anen. 
Aftnr time nxpired, the Anwricans gathernd around goaltnndcn· Chanda Cunn, nmhrac~nd, slappnd baeks and 
raised sticks to the crowd. 

"It was subdued after the 'game, but we're happy to go home with at lnast some hard­ware," said King, who added that shn had played in her linal ganw. 
What do they have to show 
from the consolation mateh'! As 
three-lime Olympian Angola 
Huggiero said Sunday, 
Ameriea's women's hockey vet­
erans -hnrsnlf, King, Trieia 
Dunn-l.uoma and .lenny Potter 

-now have a complete set of 
Olympie modals: gold from 
Nagano, silver from Salt Lake 
City, and now bronze from the 
Turin Games. 
Expecting to faen Canada in 
Monday night's gold-medal 
gamn, tho American womon 
1mdod up vying for bronze after 
tho biggest shoekor in women's 
hoekey history: Sweden's 3-2 
shootout win Friday. 
"I am glad we had a couple of 
days af'tnr the semifinals," U.S. 
coach Bon Smith said. "We had 
a chanen to regroup." 
Though it fell to an antieli­
maetic game, the Americans 
played with inspiration, harass­
ing the Finns and celebrating 
eaeh goal. 
One game too late. 
Finland found itself smoth­
ered oll'ensively-even with an 
extra skater -harassed by 
backehecking forwards and 
stingy dof'onseman. Despite 
having a power play early in 
tho second period, the Finns 

didn't got a shot on Gunn for 
more than 1 I minutes. 

Gunn had to make just 14 saves for the shutout. 
It didn't take long for the Americans to give her a cush­ion. 
Two-plus minutes al'ter the puck dropped, Kelly Stephens dellectnd Julie Chu's shot past goaltender Noora Raty. 
King scored twice -impres­sively -midway through the litst period. 
After a crafty off-the-boards pass from Helen Hesor, King carried the puek along the right boards, swooped across Haty and nipped the puck above her. 

King pumped her stick in the air, then had another reason to celebrate a few minutes later. Potter fed King with a pass up the middle of the ice, she out­skated defenseman Heidi Pelttari and wristed a shot over Haty's stiek. 
"We came out and did not have enough speed," Finn def'onseman Emma Laaksonen said. "The USA won it in the first poriod." 
The Americans mado it 4-0 early in tho soeond period on King's goal ofT a drde-to-cirde pass from Chu. 
Finland then pulled Haty, roplaeing her with Maija llassinen, but it was too late to make a difference. The two goalies eombined for 16 savns. 
The game was much diiTornnt from the matchup in tho pre­liminary round, whon tlw U.S. rallied from a two-goal, snc­ond-pnriod deficit to beat the Finns 7-:t 
"W1~ had to set tho tonn, if wn gave thom an ineh, tlwy would'vn taken it," Insalaco said. "Wn didn't do that thn last time wn played." 
One game too late. 

An eveningof Prayer from Around the World 
f ,

i ,. /'#
1 ,

/ l/ .. .-/ I
·' 
' 

...,,_•.,..,,_ join us for an evening of 
Z.en Meditation 
as P.art ota seric:s exploring the beliefs and pmctices ot the worlds great faith tr-.,ditkms. 
Guided b~j Dt·. Thomas Petersen · and r·t·. Gene Gorski, CSC 
Thursda_y, F-ebruar~ 2~ 1 2006 ~~0 Coleman-Morse 
7-7:+5 pm 
Sponscwed bq: 
<...:.1mpu"' Mim,.tr~J· f'L)t·, Graduat·e Re,.tdence"· C.raduate Student Union, 
lnkmahonal Stude.nt .Set·vicC",., 1io-Achvthe,., Un'""""ity Village, and ND Mu;,lim Student Al'o.i!IOctation 
CM 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 21, 2006 
CLUB SPORTS 
Squash team wins division title at nationals 
throughout the first game, but individual season with a 3-0 Charleston Spring Martin, who bowled a team
Sailing team places 
rallied to win 10-8, 9-3, 9-4 to victory over USC's Tom Stanley, Intersectional, which was host­high 235, followed close behind 17th in Charleston pull the Irish to within one. winning 9-0, 9-3, 9-1 to secure ed by the College of with averages of 166 and 163, Trojans fans and players cel­the championship. Charleston. respectively. Tom Talamo and Special to The Observer ebrated prematurely as Harsh In the semi-finals, the Irish The draw attracted top JB Bertumen completed the top Podar rolled 9-5, 9-3 in the whitewashed Rutgers 5-0. teams from across the country, five scorers with averages of 
Notre Dame's squash club first two games and looked to Zhang, Moss, Gochicoa and including Navy, USC, Florida, 152 and 139, respectively. The won the Emerging Teams close out the match, but Phil Chapman all won in straight St. Mary's, Stanford, Texas team finished 45th out of 50 Division Championships at the Moss fought back to even the games, 3-0, while McConnell A&M, Harvard, Yale, Brown, teams. CSA National Team match at 2-2 with 9-4, 9-2 was extended to the limit, win­Christopher Newport, South Championships this weekend in scores in the third and fourth ning in five games over the Florida, South Alabama, Skiing Princeton as 46 teams compet­games, setting up what proved Scarlet Knights' Eric Bramwell. Georgetown, Eckard and oth­Temperatures hovering ed for championships in six to be a breathtaking fifth Other teams in this division ers. around -15 degrees created divisions. The Irish defeated game. Moss again found him­included Lafayette, Boston Roy and Sabloff raced in the challenging runs for the Notre rival USC in the championship self in a deep hole, trailing College, Bard and Vanderbilt. A Division, while Dailey and Dame ski club in its final event match, 3-2, as they swept the Poday 8-4. Moss forced a tie at Zhang became the first Notre May sailed in the B Division. of the year, the MISA top three matches. The Irish 8-8, faced more match points, Dame player to qualify for the College of Charleston won the Sectionals at Marquette. trailed 2-0 in matches before then tied at 9-9 only to face yet National Singles meet. Although Lindsay May, Molly staging the comeback. another match point. Championships and will com­Butler and Leif Petterson per­
Pedro Gochicoa and Leigh Moss eventually climbed pete in two weeks in Amherst, Bowling formed well in their final races Chapman dropped their match­back to win both the serve and Mass. The Hoosier Classic in for the Irish, the club did not es at Nos. 4 and 5 to Devin the final point, keeping Irish Indianapolis closed the curtain advance to the Hegionals, thus Jones and Varun Peddy, hopes alive and setting the Sailing on the season for Notre Dame. concluding competition for this respectively, giving the Trojans stage for the final match. In Notre Dame's Tim Roy; Kat Van Koppersmith twice broke season. a 2-0 lead. Michael McConnell the deciding No. 1 match, Sabloff, John Dailey and Chris 200, and his 170 average led Team results have not been trailed Rizwan Allawala James Zhang completed a 12-0 May placed 17th overall in the the Irish. Jim Talamo and Dan posted as of today. 
MLB 
Bonds skips voluntary reporting date for Giants players 
Embattled star must report before March  outfielder to be in camp Tuesday in Scottsdale, Ariz., and has him listed in the first group of hitters for batting  is huge," shortstop Omar Vizquel said. "People tend to talk about every thing and every comment he makes. I'm  Pittsburgh. In Tampa, Fla., Alex Hodriguez said he is unhappy with organizers of the World  ball." "I told him I was disappointed with all the stuff going back and forth, the leaking of informa­ 
Associated Press  practice. After missing most of  pretty sure  there  are other  Baseball Classic for the way  tion," Rodriguez said, "especial­ 
last season while recovering  players who say that too and  they handled his decision to  ly with me not being involved in  
One day after contradicting  from three knee operations,  they don't even care. 'You are?  play  for  the  United  States  any way, shape or form."  
reports that Barry Bonds was  Bonds hit five  OK, good luck.'  instead  of  the  Dominican  Rodriguez downplayed com­ 
either ready to retire after the season or set to play 10 more years, the San Francisco star did not show up Monday on the voluntary reporting date for Giants players.·  homers in 42 at­bats in September, rais­ing his career total to 708. He trails only Hank  "Of course everything Barry Bonds says gets multiplied and is huge."  But he's Barry Bonds." Bonds is in the final season of his $90 million, five-year con­ Republic. The New York Yankees third baseman took issue with reports that he vacil­lated between playing for the Americans and the Dominicans. "Just to make it clear, I only  ments made by Chicago White Sox manager Ozzie Guillen, who criticized A-Rod's WBC decision. "I already heard what he had to say, he apologized,"  
Bonds told the team last week  Aaron (755) and  tract and will be  spoke once and then I spoke  Rodriguez said. "The apology  
through his agent that he would come a day or two later because he needed to get some  Babe Ruth (714). Bonds' absence left his  Omar Vizquel Giants shortstop  eligible for free agency after the World Series,  again three months later," Rodriguez said after reporting to spring training. "All the  has been accepted. We've moved on from there. Ozzie and I have always been friendly. It's  
"personal stuff straightened  teammates  to  meaning  his  garbage in between was Major  not really that big of a deal."  
out," Giants general manager  react to his comments to USA  time with the Giants could be  League Baseball. I didn't go  In Jupiter, Fla., the Florida  
Brian Sabean said. The manda­ Today that his injured knee has  up even if he doesn't retire.  back and forth. I said once, 'I  Marlins' first workout under  
tory reporting date is Feb. 28.  forced him to take pain pills  "It wouldn't totally surprise  wasn't playing,' and then at the  new manager Joe Girardi lasted  
"Given the fact that Barry  and that he plans to retire, and  me if he retired during the sea­ end I said, 'So OK, I am play­ more than three hours.  
didn't play practically the entire  to his remarks to MLB.com that  son, if his knees are hurting  ing.'"  "I  was  proud of how they  
season last year, we'd like to  he was just "playing psychologi­ and he's miserable," said new  Rodriguez wouldn't identify  worked," he said. "That's as  
see  him here early," manager  cal games" and his knee brace  Detroit manager Jim Leyland,  any officials he spoke with, opt­ hard a day as I've been in in  
Felipe Alou said. "But we can't  feels so good he might play  who  managed  Bonds  in  ing to say only "central base- spring training."  
bring  a  guy  here  by  force  another decade.  
before the first of March."  "Of course everything Barry  
Alou expects the 41-year-old  Bonds says gets multiplied and  



Tuesday, February 21, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
away. 
Arter struggling at home for the first half of the sea&on ­losing four of its first five homo contests Saint Mary's has embraced the horne eourt advantage. The Belles have played like a dif­ferent team down the stretch, improving to 9-7 in tho MIAA (and 11-14 overall) aftfH beginning conforence play with a 3-3 reeord. 
"At thn bnginning of the snason, we had trouble play­ing at horne, but (now( being at home hern gives us a lot of confidence," freshman for­ward Erin Newsom said. 
Saint Mary's is coming ofT a two-gamn losing streak to nnd thn season, dropping a cont1~st to No. 4-seed Albion Wednesday and finishing Saturday with a loss to No. 1­send !lope, which finished its season 23-1 with a perfect 16-0 MIAA rncord. Despite their recnnt troubles, the Belles are confident about playing Alma in the first round, having swept their snason snries 2-0. 
Bender addressed the Bellns' mentality heading into their third match up with Alma. 
"As far as mentally, I know 

Fencers 
continued from page 24 
"It was more of ... 'Wow, why is Emily Cross so good'?'" Nott said. "I (compete against Cross! kind of often, so it was kind of normal for me, and a lot of times you'll think you'll be tricky and she's already on to you. It was more like I'm glad I have this opportunity and get to fence her." 
The silver-medal perform­anco is Nott's best on the jun­ior national circuit. 
"She foncnd amazingly well this woekond," Cota said. "We our girls are really excited to twice, we know how to play play them, because we've them," Newsom said. played Alma, and we know "Obviously we can be effec­we can play with them," the tive against them, but also at coach said. "We know it's the same time, I think they've hard to beat a team three been working on beating us, times in a year, but we've but I think [playing at home] just got to go out and do it." will give us an advantage, 
The Belles' strength has and we can come out on top." been adjusting to teams the Several Saint Mary's play­second time they meet, which ers thought that while play­has shown the strength of ing at home would help them, their coaching and their abil­it would not phase the Scots, ity to read other teams' play­who feature a balanced ing styles. offensive 
B e n d e r attack and noted the solid defense
':4t the beginning of
change in the led by senior Belles' home the season, we had Darcie Philp performances trouble playing at and her sister, during the sophomore
home, but [nowl being 
season, anoth­Erica Philp. er reason for at home here gives us "I don't think 
the team's sec­a lot ofconfidence." they're going ond-hal.f to be intimidat­surge. ed," senior
Erin Newsom
"We've been captain Bridget getting really Belles forward Boyce said. "I good crowds, think they're they've been going to come getting excited," Bender said. ready to play, but we're "I just think it's a tremen­going to come out strong, and dous advantage." we'II take it from there." 
Though the Belles have Bender echoed his captain's beaten Alma twice -once feelings that Alma would not away and once at home -fall easily, despite his team's both games have been close. recent success against them. Saint Mary's edged Alma, 74-"Alma's not going to be 68, Dec. 10 on the road and intimidated at all," Bender then won, 57-55, at home said. "Both games were real­Jan. 10. ly close. They're going to 
"I think by playing them eome up with some bizarre twice and beating them plan ... we are so evenly 
were all very proud of her." the epee, Uunior, 34th), Cota in 
For heT effort, Nott was the foil (junior, 124th) and awarded 552 national circuit Serrette in the sabre. points, given to the top 16 fin­The format for the Junior 
ishers in each bracket. The Olympics starts points allow fencers to qualify with a round-for national events and work robin pool of towards national rankings. seven fencers. 
Prot garnered 301 points in Points are the foil for taking 15th in the awarded to junior division, while Kubik individuals grabbed 302 for his 14th place based on victo­performance in the junior divi­ries, hits and sion sabre. least hits taken. 
In the men's bracket, Horton The fencers are fenced in the sabre (junior, then seeded matched. Everything we do is about the same, and it's going to be a really exciting game." 
The Belles will look for a strong offensive performance from Boyce -who last week scored her l,OOOth career point and became Saint Mary's all-time leadllr in 3­pointers made -and sopho­more guard Alison Kessler. Kessler, who was named MIAA player of the week ear­lier this season, leads the team with 14.3 points per game. 
"It's going to be a tough game," Lipke said. "It all comes down to the playoffs, anything can happen. We're ready to play." 
Despite the firepower they possess, the Belles all agree on what they will need to do to come away with the victo­ry is play defense. 
"We've been scouting them pretty good and we know what we have to do," Lipke said. "So hopefully we can execute on everything we've been planning." 
Newsom was even more specific in her appraisals. 
"I think [if] we play good solid defense, shut down their high-low game and have a good shooting day we'll be fine," she said. 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu 
which she lost 5-4. 
Though the event was purely individual, the Irish fencers were quick to show their team 
"Our support system for our teammates is wonderful." 
Rachel Cota Irish fencer 
unity. 
Serrette, who didn't compete until Monday, 
was  in  
Hartford  on  
Saturday  to  
watch  her  

Notre Dame teammates. "Our support system for our 

teammates is wonderful," Cota said. "It wasn't a collegiate event ... but the Notre Dame ties took over, but it was very cool to see everyone stick together when they didn't have to." 
Contact Jack Thornton at 
jthornt4@nd.edu 

Bettis 
continued from page 24 
mainstay of the league's • 
prime-time broadcasts on 
free TV. 
Bettis will got his first taste of rogular-season action from press row when NBC's coverage begins Thursday, Sept. 7 in Pittsburgh, as the reigning champions faee an opponent yet to be named. 
"When tho regular sea­son kicks off in Pittsburgh in September, it will be tho proudest night of my life," Bettis said. "I will finally get my ring, and I will start my new earner in television in front of all the Steelers fans." 
NBC Sports Chairman and "Football Night" executive producer Diek Ebersol said in a stalll­ment that Bettis' strong public image and popu­larity after 13 soasons in the NFL made his selec­tion as the final member of the show's broadcast team an easy ono. 
"America followed 'The Bus' to the Super Bowl just two weeks ago ... and I was awed by how many people were engrossed in seeing his great career eulminato in a champi­onship, and seeing tho grace and class with whieh he handled his retirement," Ebm·sol said in the NBC statement. "lie's the kind of guy that people want to invite into thoir living rooms every week." 
Ebersol said Bettis first auditioned with NBC executives for the job during the regular sea­son. "lie simply blew us away," Ebersol said of the league's fifth all-tirno leading rusher. 
Bettis finished his NFL career with 13,294 yards on 3,369 rushing attempts -the third most carries in league history -for an average of 3.9 yards por carry. 
In his three seasons at Notre Dame, Bettis aver­aged 5. 7 yards per carry. lin left the Irish after his junior year to enter the NFL draft and returned to Notre Dame to work toward his dngreo in the spring of 1996 when ho ended his tenure with the Hams, who drafted him in 1993. lie never earned his diploma, however, as the Steelers signed the free agent, and he has spent the past 10 years in Pittsburgh. 
NBC, whieh earriP.s Irish home football games, did not say if Bettis' work on the "Football Night" would f'rno him for studio work on Notro Dame's home toleeasts. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

69th), and Grigorenko compet­ed in the foil Uunior, 112th). Also competing on the women's side was Montoya in 


into a direct-elimination tour­nament based on point-totals. 
Hegardless of points, the event afforded Notre Dame's fencers valuable experience against top competition. 
"I guess I managed my stress a little better than I did the previous match," Prot said about her bout against Cross, 

Siz~lenc (Sizzlelini®) ­
On Tuesdays, get our specialty 
for TWO for only $10.95! A sizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B;:)-lt~he (Bellini) ­A frosty raspberry, green apple or peach Italian work of art for $2' 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­
Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
--~--~~--~--~--------­
page 22 


Huskies 
continued from page 24 
they kick it into gear. which we've seen, they can be pretty devastating." 
The Irish -who have won their last three games against Rutgers. South Florida and Seton llall -have improved their Big East record to 4-8 (13-10 overall) as they l:ontin­ue the effort to grab onn of tho final Big East tournament spots. 
Notre Dame has four games remaining, including Tuesday night's game at the Hartford Civic Center, and Brey knows any win will have the same significance, regardless of the opponent. 
"For us, it will help us get to New York -simplest terms, man," Brey said. "That's how I've looked at it, that's how I've presented it to our guys. It would be another step closer to qualifying for the tourna­ment in New York. That's been our focus, and that's what we've talked about." 
Brey also conveyed Monday morning what Notre Dame's focus will be in stopping a Huskies team that is 10-2 in the Big East and 23-2 overall. Connecticut is also a perfect 13-0 at home this season. 
"When we've had success against them ... we've limited transition and second shots," Brey said. "So that's kind of where you start with a general feeling." 
Limiting transition points and second shots will be diffi­cult for Notre Dame given Connecticut's athleticism (for­ward Rudy Gay is considered one of the most talented play­ers in college basketball) and ability to rebound on the offensive end (forwards Josh Boone, Hilton Armstrong and Gay have a combined 182 offensive rebounds this sea~ son). 

Senior Chris Quinn said Sunday he considers Connecticut to be one of the best teams in the country because of the problems ­such as transition and second chance points -they present opponents every game. 
"[Connecticut isl, if not the best, one of the best five teams in the country," Quinn said. "Extremely talented, big, physical and quick. It's defi­nitely going to be a tough test going into their place, but the only thing we can do is go in there and play with nothing to lose." 
Notre Dame forwards Torin Francis and Rick Cornett will need to play strong under­neath the basket to try to limit Connecticut's ability to get to the glass. Brey also said all four big men -Rob Kurz and Luke Zeller included -will make an impact. 
"Its been tough to get to the fourth big guy, but you know what? Tomorrow night, Luke might play 15 minutes the way this thing's going," Brey said. "All four of those guys need to be ready." 
Against Seton Hall Saturday, Francis and Cornett controlled the glass and kept up with the Pirates' physical play. They 
The Observer + SPORTS 
combined for 18 rebounds. Francis led the way with 10. Brey said Irish guard Russell Carter -who is averaging 
12.3 points per game during Notre Dame's three-game win­ning streak -will be key in helping out the bigger for­wards on the boards for Notre Dame. Carter has helped on the defensive glass recently by boxing out large bodies. 
Brey also complimented Carter Monday for his recent improvement. Brey said Carter is beginning to understand how to play the game of bas­ketball, which compliments his overall ability. 
"Now. when you learn how to play and then you've got the athletic ability and power and explosiveness that Carter has, then you start to see what we're seeing the last four or five games," Brey said. "And we certainly need it right now; he's a very confident young man." 
Defending Gay will also be a challenge given the improve­ment he has made this season on the offensive end. Gay is averaging 16 points per game after averaging 11.8 last sea­son. Brey said Gay is a con­cern when it comes to limiting second chance shots because of his ability to score off offen­sive rebounds. 
"He's a great player. I mean, we're not going to spend a lot of time talking about Rudy Gay," Brey said. ''lie's a hell of a player. 
"He's going to make plays because he's a very talented kid, and I think he plays with a beautiful demeanor." 

Notes: 
+ Tuesday is Rudy Gay growth poster day at the Hartford Civic Center. Fans will receive a life-size poster of the explosive Huskies for­ward before the start of the game between Notre Dame 
Tuesday, February 21, 2006 
and Connecticut. 
+ The game will be televised locally on WAAT-South Bend. Check local listings for chan­nel depending on cable/satel­lite service. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 


Tuesday, February 21, 2006 

The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
.., 
ERIK POWERS and ALEC WHITE
JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 


you C.A\.L. !HIS \NAf;M 
Mll.-'1<:..? 'lOu 1-\0RSE.s' 
ASS 1'1.-\... Sf-\OW 
'fo..l. A G L"''5S OF WA¥-M MIL-¥-. fl.-\15 IS Nol WA~t-'1.-ASS. 

E~u::.E ME, Sl~, Bu-r I C..OU\..t>l'Ji-1-\~L.I' Bu-r 
NO\IC€.. 'fCU Aft...E­F\N P-NoP..~, CANTANI'\tft.OU~, 
E.A511>j AC::tiTF\TE.l:> 
0\..l> MAN. \NOU.Li:> 
'fOU. \...\ I<.E A :;oe,~ 
I'M FF1.0M NoTit.C.. 
l)At-'I.E 1  AN!:>  WE.  
All-E.  1-\H:.INll  
Fo9!..  E.\JE.I'-.m":.,  'fOU  

\NOUL:to FIT IN 
CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 27 End a suit 63 Longest-running 1 Basics 30 Oboist's need 
show in Broadway5 Raft wood 31 __ Stadium, history until10 Goes (for) home of the 
1/9/06
U.S. Open
14 Christine ........ 
64 Cheer (for)(29-Down's 32 Theater areas 65 Painter Matisselove) 
36 Old spy org. 
66 Real name of15 Leave stranded 39 Addict 29-Downby a winter 40 See 24-Across 67 West Point team

storm 41 Aware of 68 Hot, blue
16 One who says spectral type

"I say, old chap" 42 Slice (off) 69 Salon supplies
11 See 11 -Down 43 Toy gun ammo 18 It crashes in 44 Condo, e.g. 29-Down/ 
DOWN

45 When repeated,
60-Across 1 Attaches
words of 20 Seethes agreement 2 Can of worms? 22 Reverse of 47 Communion 3 Spelunking site WNW tables 4 Brine 23 Site of Margaret 49 Famed fireman 5 Pen name Mead studies Red 6 One who's sore 24 With 40-and 7 Place for a
51 See 24-Across 

51-Across. renter's
54 Buddhist temple
composer of signature
sights29-Down/ 8 Tendon
55"_ had it!"
60-Across. as 9 Now thenwell as 56 Persistently 1oFlattened at the63-Across worry poles26 Position 60 See 29-Down 

11 Carlotta, in 29-Down/ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
60-Across 12 Fasten, as a 


-=-+-::-t=t1rl-:-i ribbon 13 Costly strings 19 Twisty curves 21 NBC fixture 
since '75 -=+-=+=+:::-! 25 Casino worker f.:=:+=+-::,... -:-ll!l!lt-::-t:':+:::-t:~ .-...,;..+;,:+=-! 27 Fellow named Bellow '!'1-':-+.::t-:::-......, 28 Petrol provider --~~~~~~ .-r.=+::+.+.:-fl!!llll!ll 29 With 60-Across,

II! longest-running show in Broadway history as ol 1/9/06 
WILL SHOR.TZ 

30 Levi's jeans 43 Examine 52 Happening brand grammatically 
53 Quotable Yogi46 You might get a
33 Indisposed 57 Indiana city 
ticket for doing 

near Chicago34 Peruvian money this 58 Play to_
35 Soap ingredient 48 Novelist Deighton 59 Sounds of37 Cookbook disapproval
49 Old
direction 

marketplace 61 "So there you38 Tipplers 
50 Help with are!" 41 Went faster than 51 Wetnaps, e.g. 62 Put on TV 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute: or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2.000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
BUIME 


[J I 


IC2006 Tribuna Madia Services, Inc. All f~lghts Reserved. 
RAPOE 
[l) 


THE: YOUNG RAM IFF 
POL-ITIC.IAN RAN FOR OFFIC.E: BE:C.AU5£: HE: WA5 THI5.
rJ 
www.jurnbla.com

t
CORLLS 1 Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon.J I I 

Ms, rI I I JOF " rI I I I I I J.. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: TAKEN PYLON APPALL TEAPOT Yesterday's Answer: 
What he considered the nursery ­A PLANT "PLANT'" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEHRITIES BORN ON THIS ()A Y: Brian Littrell, 31; Andrew Shu~. 39; Cindy Crawl(lrd. 40; French Stewart, 42 
Happy Hirthday: Do what you fed passional~ about. A change may be fi·ightcning but it can be the way you tum things around in ynur life. Not taking action will be wbat comes back to haunt you in the end. A promise made to you in the past will now be worth collecting. Your numhcrs arc 5, 19. 24, 27, 33, 41 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Your financial future should be your concern. Check your bankbook and make sure that everything is in order. Start a new savings plan or put your cash into a high reward investment.••• TAURUS (Apr·il20-Mny 20): Be att~ntive and a!Tcctionate. If you arc negkctful or too busy to notice what the people in your life are up to, it will caus" a chain reaction of personal problems. A lat·k or patience will b~ your downtall ...• GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can make some worthwhile career moves ifyou position yourself to network or set up interviews today. The changes taking place will be positive. Be professional and add a little extru detail to everything you do and your income should improve. ••• CANCER (.June 21-.luly 22): Work hard to develop a tall•nt you enjoy and you can make extra cash. Travel or attending a seminar that interests you will enhance your own awareness and introduce you to people heading in the same direction. New relationships arc lik~ly. ••••• L~:O (July 23-Aug. 22): You will have to be on your toes today. One mistnke and you may be doing unnecessary backtracking.. Don't let anyone talk you into doing something that doesn't suit you. Follow your own path even if it does mean facing opposition. •• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Sp~nd time with people who will encourage you to follow through with your plans. Someone you meet will make a diJTcrence to the choices you make. Being receptive will lead to a partnership. Be (lpen-minded. ••u LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't hesitate to make a financial or career mov~. Money matters will improve if you are happy with what you arc doing. End the cycle that has been causing you grief. Only you can stop the m.:rry-go-round. ••• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will feel pr.:ssur.:d to change your direction and now is a perfect time to do so. The outcome ofthe alteration you make is long overdue. Take a moment to enjoy spending time with people who can offer you a new slant on lite. ••• SAGITTARHIS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): It's time t(Jr a complete overhaul both at home: and at work. Make your surroundings more comfortable and you will becom~ far more productiv.,. You are likely to be called upon to take care of an older friend or a relative's problems. ••• ('Al'RIC'ORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Partnerships will tum out to be u greater bc:nl'lit than you imagined. Listen to what others have to say--make your conclusions and take action. You are likely to have a captive audience hccausc of your insightful \'lays. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Make your point and get on with things. Someone may lead you in the wrong direction or misint.:rpret what you are trying to convey. so be precis.:. Concentrate on what you can do alone. A clt:ar mindset will lend to victory.** I'ISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll be receptive to new ideas so take time to talk to people who are in the know. Wasted opportunities will result in frustmtion and depression. Follow your heart when it comes to decisions that musl be made.••••• 
Birthday Hahy: You are sensitive, creative an<.! impetuous. You arc productive hut need to learn your own limits. You think in big terms and are open and receptiw to new methods and concepts. 
f.:ugellia's YVeb ,'fifes: astrom.Jvicf.!.comfOrfim, euRenialasl.ctnnfor conjidetllial cott'iultalifJns 
--------------------------------------------~----------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: Tfie Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academie year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Nan1e __________________________________________ _ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _______________ State _____ Zip_______ 
• 

THE OBSERVER 

f" 
PORTS
Tuesday, February 21, 2006 page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Testing the best 
No. 3/4 Huskies are undefeated at home 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sporrs Editor 
Notre Dame did not want to look past Seton Hall Saturday to a looming game against the Connecticut Huskies (No. 3 AP/No. 4 coach's poll). but a match up with the team Irish coach Mike Brey calls the best in the country has now arrived -and the stakes couldn't be higher. 
"In my opinion, they are the best team in the country and have the most weapons and the most bodies," Brey said at a press conference Monday in the Joyce Center. "And when 
see HUSKIES/page 22 


SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles ride defense to MIAA Tournament 
first-year head coach Steve Bender, Saint Mary's has had it's best season since it began conference play. 
"[Our improvement thus far has been] huge," junior captain and starting point guard Bridget Lipke said. "It's a new thing for us. It's really exciting because I think we've worked really hard for it and we've really had a lot of fun this year. 
" ... [And] we've been get­ting a lot of fans this year, getting a lot of support. It's definitely a lot better play­ing at home rather than 
see BELLES/page 21 

FOOTBALL 
'Bus' will svvitch to TV booth 
Former ND star Bettis takes commentator job 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 
Former Irish running back and Super Bowl champion Jerome Bettis will trade in his cleats for a microphone next fall, as NBC announced 
the recently­retired Bettis will JOin the broadcast team on the network's upcoming studio show for Sunday 


night foot-Bettis ball games, "Football Night in America." 
"After retiring, I wondered what I was going to do on Sundays, but now I still have a place to go every Sunday night," Bettis said Monday in a statement released by NBC. 
Bettis, known as "The Bus" to football fans for his hard­hitting running style and large body frame, will serve as an analyst on the show alongside veteran football hosts Bob Costas and Cris Collinsworth. 
"Football Night" includes both the pre-game studio show and the NFL's Sunday night game, which will replace Monday Night Football in 2006 as the 
see BETTIS/page 21 


By TIM KAISER SportS Writer 
No. 3-seed Saint Mary's will host No. 6-seed Alma tonight at 7:30 in the first round of the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association (MIAA) playoffs, marking the Belles' first­ever home playoff game since they began competing in the MIAA in 1997. 
· The Belles are excited to play at home, both because of the home-court advan­tage and their share in the program milestone. Under 

FENCING 
.Fencers duel as individuals in Junior Olympics 
Nott leads eight competitors participating in Connecticut meet 
event brought together more out of 204 competitors in the By JACK THORNTON than 1, 600 fencers from junior foil. Nott won all of her Sporrs Writer around the country competing six pool bouts and then won 
in Cadet (under-17) and six consecutive direct elimi­
While both the men's and Junior (under-20) divisions in nation bouts before falling in women's fencing teams are foil, sabre and epee. the final match to two-time hunting team national titles, The Irish contingent includ­World Cup Champion and eight Irish fencers competed ed sophomores Rachel Cota Harvard fencer Emily Cross. for something unique this and Tom Horton and fresh­Though she was fencing for weekend -themselves. men Adrienne Nott, Emilie the title against someone she 
The group from Notre Dame Prot, Mark Kubik, Alexander considers her idol, Nott was­flew to Hartford, Conn. to Grigorenko, Ashley Serrette n't caught relishing the fence in the Junior Olympics, and Kimberlee Montoya. moment. which took place Friday Nott led the way among her through Monday. The annual teammates, placing second see FENCING/page 21 

CUJB SPORTS 
MLB 
WINTER m.VMPICS 
MLBNBA 

NCAA BASKETBAll
u.l 

u Irish take division Bonds fails to 
United States 4 
Teams vie for Marlins open 
~racuse 60

z title at nationals report to training Finland 0 playoff seeds spring traming est Virginia 58
::5 

...-
The Notre Dame The embattled star The American women 
After the All-Star After their offseason 
The Orange upset the squash team won the 
~ 
did not show up for the 

claimed hockey's 
break, the focus will be fire sale, Florida's new No. 14 Mountaineers to
'c:t 

Emerging Teams Division Giants' voluntary activi­
bronze medal with a
=: 
on playoff seeding and 
staff of pitchers and 
support their NCAA in national competition 
ties in Scottsdale, Ariz. 

dominant win. 
the scoring title. 
catchers worked out for Tournament bid. 
this weekend. 
the first time. 

page 20 page 20 
page 19 
page 18 page 16 page 14 











