
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 95 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24,2006 

McBrien cleared of plagiarism complaint 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
Assistant News Editor 
A complaint of plagiarism against theology professor Father HidHtrd McBrien was rnenntly dismissed by theology department chair John Cavadini, aecord ing to an article in 
, r.:
tho National .'.··.·
••••: 
Catholic I ,.~ .... •··. 
l •. ·.' ·~:··'
He porter 
~··.·
published 
f
today. n. 
"Although I did not 
McBrien
release the University investigator's report to the National Catholic Heporter, nor do I know who did, I can verify the accuracy of the story in this week's issue," McBrien told The Observer in an e-mail Thursday. 
Though Cavadini spoke to NCR, he did not return Observer phone calls seeking comment Thursday. 
The complaint, which origi­nated with the Catholic group the Cardinal Newman Society, was dismissed "on the grounds that the alleged copying consti­tutes 'carelessness' rather than unethical behavior; that state­ments of regret and apology for oversight have already been issued; and that there is no pre­vious instance to indicate a pat­tern requiring investigation," according to a letter obtained by the NCH, from Professor Cavadini to Jeffrey Kantor, vice president for graduate studies and research. 
The Cardinal Newman Society -an organization Cavadini called "a militant right-wing Catholic interest group" -requested in a Jan. 19 letter to University President Father John Jenkins the University investigate similari­ties in structure and language between a column written by McBrien for the Jan. 6 issue of The Tidings of the Archdiocese of Los Angeles and an op-ed piece by Eileen McNamara for the Dec. 11 Boston Globe. 
The two publications criti­cized protests of a Catholic Charities fundraiser benefiting Boston Mayor Thomas Menino, a supporter of abortion rights and gay marriage. 
McBrien cited McNamara's piece in his column, but sent letters of apology to McNamara and to the Globe for too closely paraphrasing a sentence. He also agreed to add a formal statement in a future eolumn "admitting and regretting the oversight," according to the NCR. 
"I am pleased that the review process within the University is now officially over, and I am, completely satisfied with its outcome," McBrien told The Observer. 
McBrien said he would nei­ther release the report to any­one nor conduct further inter­views about the matter. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel @nd.edu 


Presidential visit conjures emotion 

AP 
Protesters gathered Thursday in Mishawaka to oppose Bush's economic and Iraq policies. 
Injured ND senior 
released fron1 hospital 



Student play explores sex, faith 
'The Primrose Path' documents diverse experiences, perspectives 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
Assistant News Editor 
Less than two weeks after the curtains fell on this year's hotly­debated "The Vagina Monologues," another set of monologues exploring sexuality will take the academic stage at Notre Dame. But "The Primrose Path," a student-written docu­mentary, infuses its discussions of sexuality with perspectives of love and faith -a distinetion that playwright Anna Nussbaum says will test whether Notre Dame's tradi­tionally volatile reaction to the "Monologues" is truly a result of the performanee's lack of religious charaeter. 
"If the eoncern is there is no religious perspeetive in 'The Vagina Monologues,' come to my play," she said. "If what we're really squeamish about is issues of sexuality, that will become clear." 
Ineluded in its assortment of monologues on sexuality ­researehed and eollected dur­ing Nussbaum's junior summer, courtesy of a UROP (undergrad­uate research opportunity) grant -are explorations of both female and male sexuality, religion, morality, love, mar­riage, transgender issues, abor­tion, celibacy, virginity, pornog­raphy and pregnaney. 
"These are issues that really interest our eommunity but are always talked about in theory," she said. "These (monologues( are about praetice. These arc aetual people, and there's something so powerful about that." 
Nussbaum's interviewees indude "everything from (her) parish priest to lherl ex­boyfriend 1o people (she) met on the stn• t or in the phone book." 
Most mono. ·gues are based on a single intt ·vinw, but a few are eompilatio11 In seleeting 
see PRIMROSE/page 8 

Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame senior Brian Cardile was released from Memorial Hospital in South Bend Wednesday, according to an e-mail sent by Keenan ree­tor Father Mark Thesing to current and fi1rmer dorm resi­dents. 
Cardile, 21, was hit by a car early Sunday morning. The South Bend Tribune reported Monday that witnesses told South Bend police officers Cardile walked into East Edison Hoad in front of a mov­ing vehicle driven by Chieago resident John Sehoenwetter at approximately 2:30 a.m . 
Sehoenwetter is a seeond-year law student at Notre Dame, according to the University directory. 
The e-mail, a copy of whieh was obtained by The Observer, said Cardile will stay at the health eenter on campus for "awhile." 
"I stopped by to see him this afternoon and he seems to be doing well," Thesing said in the e-mail sent Thursday afternoon. "He is still sore and stiff." 
Cardile, a former Keenan resident who now lives at Turtle Creek Apartments, was 
see CARD ILE/ page 8 By KATIE PERRY 
Assistant News Editor 
When Air Force One landed in South Bend Thursday, Notre Dame students and Miehiana· eommunity members greeted President George W. Bush as people general­ly do -with either open arms or cold shoulders. 
Bush spoke at Bethel Collego as part of a fundraising luncheon for 

U.S. Hep. Chris Chocola, R-2nd District. The exclusive event ­open only to those who purehased tickets at $500 eaeh -indud<~d a speech by the president and a pri­vate reeeption. Bush also posed for snapshots with supporters, a pricny photo opportunity that cost $4,000 per person or $6,000 per eouple. 
While House officials arrived nearly a week early in order to prepare the logistics for Bush's AP 
President Bush spoke In Mishawaka Thursday see BUSH/page 6 at a fundralser for Rep. Chris Chocola, left. 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Bishop speaks on just war 

Focus is Catholic teachings on peace 
By MADDIE HANNA 
Associate News Editor 
Catholics.who wish to be true diseiples of Christ can never accept war as a solution to the world's problems -no matter the eircumstanees, Detroit Bishop Thomas Gumbleton told mem­bers of the Notre Dame and South Bend com­munities 

Gumbleton

Thursday night. 
"That's the challenge I leave you with tonight -say 'no' to war, 'yes' to peaee, to justice, to love," Gumbleton told the approximately 60 audience members in DeBartolo 141. 
Gumbleton's challenge was based on a statement made by tho late Pope John Paul II, whoso teachings ho drew from heavily throughout the address. 
While Gumblnton has been the target of' national atten­tion al'ter recently eorning for­ward as a ehildhood vietim of sexual abuse by a prinsl, lw spoke Thursday on a much dii'J'erent topie -"Hnligion and War." 
lie broke down tho Church's teachings on war into tho the­ology of just war and the thn­ology or nonviolence. 
Both thnologies aro basnd on tho premise that Jesus 
see THINK/page 6 

• page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, February 24, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Agreeing vvith Shirley 
I couldn't really even stand up to a 
seal, I don't really deserve a medal or a 
party! 
I bet you're wondering what kind of 
column would follow a statement like 
that. But why keep 
you in suspense? Peter Ninneman 
I'll just come right 
out and tell you ­
News 
one that has noth­
Production
ing to do with the 
Editor
opening line. 
Now that I have 
you hooked, you have no choice but to 
continue reading. 
Last night was pancake night at South 
Dining Hall. For those of you who 
haven't had the opportunity to experi­
ence such a miracle, take my word for it 
when I tell you that it is a night not to be 
missed. 
However, the delicious pancakes, 
scrambled eggs, and tater tots (thank 
you, dining hall cooks) that I feasted · upon are not what stick out in my mind 
about my dinner last night. 
As I started applying syrup to my flap­
jacks, a dining hall employee, whom I 
shall call Shirley, asked me what year I 
was in. 
''I'm a freshman," I told her. 
"How do you like it here? ... What is 
your major? ... Psychology? I have a 
daughter who has two master's degrees 
in psychology. I like psychologists, but 
not psychiatrists; sometimes people do 
need medication, but a lot of the time 
~ey'v~. got them drugged up like zom­
bies ... 
Shirley told me I'm blessed to be here, 
and wanted me to work hard and never 
give up. 
She is right -I am blessed to be here. 
Settle down, gentle reader, this col­
umn isn't becoming a Lifetime movie. To 
be honest, there are definitely days 
when I don't want to be here and would 
much rather be home working at Pizza 
Hut by day, wasting time with friends by 
night. 
Blasphemer! Burn him! Hang him! Rip 
his face ofi1 Notre Dame is the single 
greatest thing to happen to mankind 
since the Resurrection! 
Again, settle down, gentle reader­
there are also times when I couldn't 
imagine wishing to be anywhere else. 
Notre Dame is often idealized. I've 
heard it described by an alum and dis­
tant relative as being more of a 
"lifestyle," rather than a school. 
Chuckles of affirmation rippled through 
the room. 
Sure, there are nights when students 
are putting off their studies to drink 
Natty Lights and play video game rugby 
deep into the night; when it reaches 30 
degrees, shorts are donned and the foot­
balls come out; dorm parties are 
thumpin' till dawn ... errr ... make that 
parietals. 
People on the outside or who are far 
removed from their schooling here only 
see those things. It's almost an inversion 
ofthe Notre Dame bubble. 
When all is said and done, though, I 
agree with Shirley. I'm glad I'm here. 
Contact Peter Ninneman at 
pninnema@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside 
Column are those of the author and 
not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
In the Feb. 23 edition ofThe Observer, in the article "Fight Club," Bengal Bouts fighter Tommy Forr's name was spelled incorrectly. Adam "Steel Ghost" Burns defeated Frank Ragukonis Wednesday night in the 170-pound divi­sion of the Bengal Bouts. The outcome was reported incorrectly in the Feb. 23 edition ofThe Observer. A news article in the Feb. 23 edition ofThe Observer incorrectly referred to a potential change in Club Coordination Council funding as a "budget cut." Rather, the group would receive a lower fixed allocation of the higher student activities fee. The Observer regrets these errors. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD BUILD A NEW DORM, WHAT WOULD IT BE LIKE? 






John Paul Lichon  Hajime Sargent  Erin Hung  Yurianna Kim  Charlie Horn  Adam Hipp  
senior Morrissey  freshman Dillon  junior Howard  sophomore Lyons  sophomore Dillon  sophomore Dillon  
"The Bel-Air Mansion cuz I'm the Fresh Prince.,,  "Combination of Pizza Hut and the White House.,,  'Td evict the guys in Stanford ancj, make it a girls, dorm. It'd be  "Like Disneyland."  "/hear the Pangborn mascot used to be 'The Violence.,,  "Co-ed?"  

great to frolic with Keenan!" 

Zoo hog finds companion in antelope 
LOS ANGELES -Shortly after his mate went to hog heaven, Willy the Red River porcine spied a new mud­pen pal in what officials are calling one of the oddest pairings at the Los Angeles Zoo. 
Willy is a 10-year-old, 187-pound hog and his new mate is a 16-year-old bongo named Nicole, the largest member of the forest ante­lope family. The couple shares a muddy zoo exhibit where they nap and cuddle together -even nuzzling snout to nose. 
"It's adorable. Wherever 
TODAY c:: 

that bongo is, the hog is usually nearby," zoo spokesman Jason Jacobs said. 
Willy's previous mate Ruby died last summer of cancer and within a week the hog turned to Nicole for companionship. 
Nicole wasn't interested in Willy at first, but the persist­ent pig eventually won her over. They now share breakfast, groom each other and take walks together. Nicole leads, and Willy trails closely behind. 
Ill. Governor confused by 'Daily Show' bit 
ST. LOUIS -Gov. Rod Blagojevich wasn't in on the joke. Blagojevich says he didn't realize "The Daily Show" was a comedy spoof of the news when he sat down for an interview that ended up poking fun at the sometimes-puzzled Democratic governor. 
"It was going to be an interview on contraceptives ... that's all I knew about it," Blagojevich laughingly told the St. Louis Post-Dispatch in a story for Thursday's editions. "I had no idea I was going to be asked if I was 'the gay governor."' 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
LLI 
:::1: 
~ 
LLI 

3: 
..... 
c:r: 
(.) 

0 
HIGH 35

..... 
LOW 27 


HIGH LOW 


33 15 

22 8 
IN BRIEF 
. Cavanaugh Hall is holding a Dance-A-Thon tonight from 5 
p.m. until midnight in the LaFortune Ballroom. The event aims to raise money and aware­ness for Hannah and Friends. ' 
Haiti Awareness Week con­cludes Friday with a Haitian­American Mass at 5 p.m. in Pangborn Hall and a Haitian­African Dinner at 6:00 p.m. in CoMo Lounge. Both are free and open to the public. A $5 sug­gested donation for the dinner will be collected in support of the four Haitian orphans who work with Notre Dame's Haiti Program. 
The Robinson Community Learning Center will celebrate its fifth anniversary with an open house from 5:30 p.m. to 
7:30 tonight. The staff will honor community volunteers and ND faculty, staff and stu­dents whose efforts support the center's programs. The RCLC is 921 North Eddy Street. 
U2 tribute band Elevation will play tonight at 10 p.m. at Legend's. Admission is free to ND, SMC and HCC students with an ID. 
The Kellogg Institute hosts its annual Brazilian Carnaval tonight at 8 p.m. in the east wing of South Dining Hall. Admission is free and the public is invited. 
The Irish men's basketball team will square off with big East rival Marquette Saturday at the Joyce Center. Tip-off is scheduled for 7:30p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

MONDAY TUESDAY 

18 2 

22 15 
----------------------. 

Friday, February 24, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Professor explains his hurricane engineering 
actually take a lillie helicopter
By PETER NINNEMAN ride," Westnrink said. 
News Wrilt'r The pictures showed barges 
pushed up onto land, totally 
Tlw Kaneh Ctnli.Pr f'or dnmolishod residtmtial areas Tnaehing and Lnarning's and llw rnmains of' levees. "Scholars in thn Classroom" "Essentially, there's water lncturn serins kicked off nvnrywhnrn," Westnrink said. Thursday with a talk by profns­In 2004, Westerink's ADCIHC sor of' civil nngintH~ring and system prndicted the levnos gnological sC"inncns .Joannes protecting New Orleans could Wnsterink on "Tiw Impact of not prevent flooding of the city llu r r i 1: an n Kat r i n a an d during a slow-moving, large l'rndicling Storm Surgt~s in catngory throe hurricane. Southorn I,ouisiana." ADCIHC was devnloped at 
Wnstnrink holds a doctoratn Notre Dame, the University of from tho Massachusntts North Carolina at Chapel Ifill, lnstitutn of' TeC'hnology and the Univnrsity of' Texas at plays a loading Austin and the national roln in University of undnrstanding and "We have to keep Oklahoma and 
modnling hurri­on adding detail uses 256 proces­canns. as wPII as in sors to write and
to make more

prnvnnting cata­solve nearly six strophic damagn accurate models. " hundred billion 
likn that caused by algnbraic equa­
llurricane Katrina. Joannes Westerink tions, he said. 
Wnstnrink was Even so, onn or llw prind-engineering professor 
Westerink said he pin rnsnarchnrs and his associates and sdwlars who lwlpnd dnvel-are looking to improve it. op tlw Advanced Circulation "Our goal is to develop aecu­Modt>l (ADCIHCJ. whieh is an rate, el'f'ieient, robust and authoritatiw computer modnl-usable computational models of ing systnm currently used by thn coastal ocean that can be tho U.S. Army and Navy, as well applind to real engineering as the Federal Emergency problems," Westerink said. "We Managnnwnt Agnney. have to keep on adding detail 
In tho beginning of the lee-to make more aceurate mod­tun~. Westerink showed aerial ols." shots he took of' tlw dnvastation ol' llurricane Katrina. Contact Peter Ninneman at 
"What wn'rn going to do is pninnema@nd.edu 



SMC dorms to be modernized 
College plans to revamp interior environment of residence halls 
of' the nnw halls. what wn have now," said By KATIE KOHLER 
"Hecyeling, eff'ective waste freshman Katie Mrlnnrnny. NcwsWrircr 
disposal and nven internal Freshman Beth ()'Aurora gardnning areas will also bn said slw liknd tho idna of' tho Thn notably spacious resi­integrated nnw buildings, as dence hall rooms Saint Mary's into residen-long as Saint students have enjoynd for tial plan-"The new classroom Mary's knnps the years may bneomn even more ning," she architndure his­
building is supposed 
appealing in tho near future. said. toric-looking to 
to he more
Saint Mary's Viee President Technology "presnrvn the his­for Finance and that is pnrva­technologically torical aspnd of Administration Laurie sive and vir­our campus."
advanced." 
Stickelmaier recently alttmded tually invisi­Despitn tlw fact a conl'nrence in Chicago enti­ble is another the Collngt~ is not tled "Tho 21st Century Project planning ele­Katie Mcinerney currnntly antici­-The Hesidence Ilall of the ment that freshman pating tho eon­Future," whore she learned received a strudion of a 1ww ways to improve the condi­great deal or residence hall, tions of campus residencns. attention at the eonf'erencn." Sticknlmainr said during the 
"Tiw main conclusion we Besidence llall director nnxt fnw years Saint Mary's came to as a result of inten­Michelle Hussell said plans to rnnovatn and n~III(J{Inl sive team discussions was that Stickelmaier's attendance at existing rnsidnncn halls one­residence hall structures will this conference does not indi-by-one. not change cate Saint "Mnanwhiln, wn continue that much Mary's will be our ongoing replacnmnnt of
''The College is focused 
-it's the building a new carpets and furnit.urn as neml­environment residence hall nd," she said.
on the new academic 
within and building and continuing in the near Shn also said a nnw rnsi­around the f'uture. dencn hall is not a priority
the renovation ofour 
structures "At this time, becausn thn Collegn has
current halls." 
that will be the College is enough spaen to comfortably different," focused on the house all students. Stickelmaier new academic "We t:urrnntly havn enough
Laurie Stickelmaier 
said. building and beds to accommodatn our stu­
vice president for finance 
"We antic­continuing the dent population," Stiekelmai­
and administration
ipate more renovation of er said. "When enrollnwnt of a commu­Saint Mary's our current increases to thn point whnrn nity-based halls," she said. wn need more rooms on cam­setting with Students are pus, we will use tlw informa­groups of residences set excited about the new aca­tion gained from thn 21st around common social, eating demic construction as wnll. Century Project." and retail areas." "The new classroom build­
Stickelmaier said the build­ing is supposed to be more Contact Katie Kohler at ing itself is not the only focus technologically advanced that kkohleO I @saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 24, 2006 

Journalist speaks of 
experiences in Sudan 
By RYAN SYDLIK News Writer 

In front of a rapt audience and a C-SPAN film crew, author Gabriel Meyer spoke Thursday about his experiences with the faith and determination of the people of the Nuba Mountains in Sudan, which he chronicled in his non-fiction book, "The Gift: War and Faith in Sudan." 
Law professor Jerry Bradley introduced Meyer as one of the first Western journalists to write about the war in Sudan, going where foreigners were banned and where few would dare go. 
Meyer then took up the podium and began his part of the presen­tation with a traditional story describing the origins of the Nubian peoples. The mythical story told of a time when child­birth was believed to have required men with knives to cut the mother open. But then, a woman from above showed killing was not how one should give rise to the child and the vio­lence stopped. 
"This is how the Nuba came to be, when they stopped cutting the women," Meyer said. 
Meyer said he found himself in Sudan after interviewing Bishop Macram Max Gassis of Sudan during his visit to the United States. Meyer was moved by Gassis' "remarkable relief effort," which included setting up schools and training centers for women who had escaped slavery. 
One year after the meeting, Meyer got a call from Gassis say­ing, "We are leaving on the 21st." Ten days later, they were both in the Nuba Mountains, he said. 
Meyer said Sudan was "a reli­gious tectonic plate," where Arab Africa meets traditional Africa. The Nuba Mountains happen to lie in the middle of this crossroads where the Christian and Animist south meet the Islamic north of the country. 
Meyer explained the dangers posed by the area. 
"In 1992, this area was put off limits by the government to all visitors for very good reason ­the government was launching an extermination campaign," he said. 
"We were always on the brink of famine," Meyer said. "We never knew when a tremendous crisis could occur." 
Meyer said his book is intended as "an elegy and tribute to a remarkable people." He wrote not only about the Nubians' hor­ror and plight, but also their rich spiritual and faith life and their diverse cultural traditions. 
Meyer, who was crucial in bringing the conflict into the eyes of the Western media, said he "always believe[d] that it is the goal of journalists to bring out what is hidden." 
Meyer said the conflict in Sudan has killed 2.5 million people and displaced half the total population of southern Sudan. 
Meyer viewed the crisis as one of political identity. 
"It is an irony that the result of the civil war is a result of its progress," he said. 
Meyer explained the unique position of Nuba in Sudan, where they side with the southern part of the country while being situat­ed in the north. This stirred vio­lence from the north, which led to the criminalization of Nubian cul­tural customs and the appear­ance of governmental death squads. 
Meyer went on to speak about the children victimized during the Sudanese conflict -starved to death or bombed in their schools. 
"Modern wars always turn out to be wars against children, for the death of children strikes at the possibility of hope," he said. 
Meyer ended his lecture by telling the story of Bishop Gassis' catechist. The catechist was beat­en, lashed and then offered money and a house to give up his way of life. He did not give in and was forced into a mock crucifix­ion pose as a punishment. Then, for reasons he cannot explain, he was released. 
Years later, while doing work to codify tribal codes into a legal sys­tem, he was killed. But his mourners included both his fellow tribesman as well as Muslims, who joined together to mourn and praise the man's life, seeing his death as a loss for all, Meyer said. 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 


SMC candidates share responses 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint Mary's Editor 

Saint Mary's students had the opportunity to listen to plat­forms presented by class board executive hopefuls and ask questions while they ate in the Saint Mary's dining hall Thursday night. 
The tickets for sophomore, junior and senior board were presented and then questioned by elections commissi.oner Danielle Lerner, and their responses were broadcast over the dining hall's PA system. 
"They have all worked really hard and they are really excited and I think they deserve to have as many people possible listen to their ideas," Lerner said. 
Question and answer sessions for elections were previously conducted in an isolated portion of the dining hall and voters were invited to attend if they wished. Lerner said the move was an effort to increase partic­ipation. 
Seniors Kat Kindt, Meghan Mackinnon, Erica Antonucci and Laura Baumgartner are running for class president, vice president, secretary and treas­urer respectively and are cam­paigning under the slogan "Got MELK? We're utterly great and we'll do your senior year good!" 
Kindt said their top goal is to unify the class by securing fun events students want to attend. 
The opposing ticket, com­posed of Heidi Goeppinger, Christin Molnar, Maggie Wickstrom and Bridget Gorman, also said giving their classmates a great senior year at Saint Mary's was an impor­tant priority. 
Goeppinger, who is currently serving as junior class presi­dent, said her board has had a successful year and has raised $4,000 for the class. She said she would like to see that money well spent and intends to plan future fundraising to keep the costs of senior formal and senior week to a minimum. 
One of the things Kindt and her running mates proposed was moving senior formal to Chicago. 
Baumgartner said the details have not been completely been explored, but the plan is feasi­ble. 
"Right now we just need to look at places where we can have the dance, and we have some ideas in our head," she said. 
When asked what they would do if they lost the election, every candidate on both tickets responded they would still seek to be a member of class board in a different capacity. 
"I don't 
cer. 
"We have already talked to people in the South Bend com­munity about it and we are really ... excited about this event," Hogan said. 
Sophomore class president hopeful Francesca Johnson, along with her ticket mates Pauline Kistka, Sarah Voss and Maggie Johnson, are running unopposed. 
Johnson and Kistka are cur­rently serving as freshman class president and vice president, respectively, and were responsi­ble for initiating a dance marathon fundraiser that will benefit Riley Children's Hospital 
in Indianapolis, Ind. 

think I would "I want to run again
"I think student 
be here run­for vice president of ning for sen­government is one the sophomore class ior class vice of those things that because l think stu­president if I dent government is
keeps you coming 
didn't want to one of those things
back."
be on board," that keeps you com­Molnar said. ing back," Kistka said. There were Pauline Kistka "One thing I know a also two tick­little better this year
vice president
ets for the is that Francesca and

SMC freshman class
junior execu­tive board positions. Presidential candi­date Michelle Michalak, vice presidential candidate Brooke Trudeau, secretarial candidate Katie Soller and treasurer can­didate Cailene Pisciotta prom­ised voters exciting class events, including a memorable Junior Mom's weekend. 
Michalak said her experience as freshman class president and sophomore board fundrais­ing and activities chair has pre­pared her well to lead the jun­ior class. 
"It think this has helped me to improve my leadership skills because [I have worked] with not only many people at Saint Mary's but off-campus, too," Michalak said. 
Their opponents, Colleen Kielty, Erin Hogan, Elizabeth Bush and Shawn Redington said the best idea on their plat­form is "The Real OC," a fundraising walk to raise money to fmd a cure for ovarian can-I really know what we 
want to do and we are motivated to meet those goals." 
When asked her favorite thing about the College, Johnson did not hesitate. 
"My favorite thing about Saint Mary's is its being an all women's atmosphere," Johnson said. "l think it allows us to be more confident." 
The ticket also said they will work hard to keep classmates studying abroad connected to campus. 
"I think it will be really differ­ent with people leaving and coming back all year long, and I think it is really important to make people know [when they leave and come back] they are still a member of our class," Voss said. 
Voting will take place on PIUSM from midnight Sunday to midnight Monday. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

Here's your chance to enjoy this 20-year-old prodigy who won the Small Genius Cup. the Broadcasting Cup and 
the silver award in the International Tchaikovsky Competition. 
-----Selections Include -------' 
Br-ahms' Hungarian Dances Nos. 5 & 6 and Symphony No. 2. plus Beethoven's Violin Concerto 
Saturday, March 4, 8:00 p.m.. Morris Performing Arts Center 
Tickets start at: $18 Adults, $8 Students SouthBenciSymphony.com ot-call 235·9190 
CoNN -S E r. MER. 1N c. JJ,Foegley Landscape, Inc. 





ORLD & NATION 
hiday, February 24, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE 0HSERVFR'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Roof collapses on Moscow market 
MOSCOW-'J(~arl'ul rnon and wornnn -many wmtring fur hats or searvns against the bitter cold -cradh~d eell phones to thPir nars as thny tried dnspnrately to lind loved ones trapped undnr tlw snowy rubbln after the roof collapsed on one ol' Moscow's biggest rnarkeL'i. 
;\t lnast 56 pnopln wern killnd and 32 injumd wlwn tho eircular building eavnd in Thursday, and rescunrs workml furiously to dnar eonernte slabs and metal bnams to rnaeh survivors. 
Cries and shouts rang out from tho crowd near Uw dev<L'>tatnd Basmanny market as mnergnney workers read thn namns of the injun~d. One woman W<L'> pulled away, wailing, aftnr hnaring hnr hrotlH~r W<L'> killnd. 
"I haw a cousin tlwrn. I've bonn calling him sim~n morning hut at first thorn was no answnr, and now t.hn phonn dons not ring," said Eshkin Mnkhvaliy•w. a young man from Aznrbaijan. 
Five Palestinians killed in West Bank 
Bt\IA'I't\ BEFU<am C/\MI'-lsranli troops on Thursday killnd liw l'alnstinians, induding a top militant who said just a day narlinr that hn would nnver bn mught, in Israel's largnst mili­tary swnnp sim·n pulling out from thP Gaza Strip hL'>t SUIIHTWr. 
Thri'P of tlw clnad wnrn gunnwn from the ;\I /\qsa Martyrs' Brigml<'s -a violnnl ollshool of l'aiPstinian lnadPr Mahmoud Abbas' Fatah Party -kiiiPd during a shootout in tlwir hidn­out in tlw Balata rPfug~~n camp in the West Bank. 
Tlw dPaths brought to night tlw numbnr of Palestinians killnd by army fire sinee thn Balata swnnp bPgan Monday. Morn than 50 havn bonn wounded by livn rounds and rubbnr-matnd steel pellets, l'alnstinian hospital ollkials said. Thn military said 15 l'ugitivns have benn arrnstnd. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

New Orleans still far from whole 
NJ·:W OHLJ.:t\NS-Six months have passed sim:n Katrina ravagnd this city. For a half a year, iL'> pnopln havn countnd thn dead (otlidally, l,OHO in J.ouisiana and 2:{1 in Mississippi) and strug­glnd mightily to knPp tlwir city among the living. 
t\ slimrnPd-down Mardi <;ras is testament to tlwir SU('(~nss: a tour of the devastation that n·mains is tnstanwnt to how lilr they have to go. 
llurrkmw Katrina crnatnd an estimated 60.3 million rubir yards of debris in l.ouisiana, 25 limPs <L'> murh <L'> the ruins of the World Tradn < :nntPr and enough to fill the Supnrdonw morn than I:l times. Of that, only :{2 million eubie yards -a hit morn than half'-has been rnmovPd. 

Four charged in human tissue case 
NEW Yl >BK -The owtwr ofa biomedieal sup­ply house Wll'> dmrged along with three other nwn Thursday with secretly carving up eorpses and selling thn parts f'or usn in transplants aaoss tlw eo un try. 
The •~ase W<L'> "like something out of' a ehnap horror movie," Brooklyn District Attorney ( :harles llynns said. 
Prosneutors said thn dnlimdanL'i obtained the hodins from furwral parlors in thrnn states and liJrged dmtth eortilkates and organ donor eon­sent forms to makn it lohk as if' the bones, skin, tendons, heart valves and other tissue were legally removed. The defendants made millions of dollars from the seheme, prosneutors said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Mom, son arrested on crack charges 
INI>lt\Nt\POJ.IS-Indianapolis polieo hav•~ arrested a motlwr and her teen son who they say wen~ dealing eraek eoeainn from a Nnar 1\astsidn house. 
Polien raided Shaneda Civils' home in the 2000 bloek of New York Stroot at about 5 p.m. Wednesday. The 34-year-old mother of' throe told officers she sells drugs "and that she usually uses her 16­ynar-old son to eonduet her drug dnaling efforts," J>eteetive Stnplwn Krieger said in a poliee report. 
IRAQ 

Violence in Iraq kills over 100 


On the brink of civil war, a daytime curfew is implemented to keep people safe 
Associated Press  
B/\GIID/\D -Gunmen  
killed dozens of eivilians  
Thursday and dumped  
their bodies in a diteh, as  
the government ordered a  
tough daytime curfew of  
Baghdad and three  
provinces to stem the see­ 
tarian violenee that has  
left at least 114 dnad since  
tlw bombing of a Shiite  
shrine.  
Seven U.S. soldiers died  
in a pair of roadside  
bombings north of the cap­ 
ital, and /\meriean military  
units in the Baghdad area  
worn told to halt all but  
essential travel to avoid  
getting eaught up in  
demonstrations or road­ 
bloeks.  
;\s the country eareennd  
to the brink of civil war,  
Iraqi statn television  
announend an unusual  
daytime curfew, ordering  
people ol'l' tho streets  
Friday in Baghdad and tho  
nearby flashpoint  
provinces of Diyala, Babil  
and Salaheddin, whnre the  
shrine bombing took  
plaeo.  
Such a sweeping day­ 
limo curfew indieated the  
dnpth of fear within the  
government that tho crisis  
APeould toueh oft' a Sunni­ 
Shiite eivil war. "This is Iraqi soldiers and civilians inspect a scene following an explosion Thursday In  
tlw first time that I havn Baqouba that killed eight Iraqi soldiers.  
hoard politieians say they  
are worried about the out­ whilo they wore interview­ OITicials feared mosques  eommand. told rnport.~rs.  
bn~ak of civil war,"  ing Iraqis about  could be both a target for  Nevnrtlwlnss, snetarian  
Kurdish older statesman  Wednesday's destruction  attacks and a venun for  passions worn running  
Mahmoud Othman told  of the famed golden dome  stirring seetarian feelings.  high.  
The Associated Press.  of the Shiite shrine  President Bush said lw  ;\ Shiitn dnrie was shot  
Most of the bloodshed  /\skariya in her hometown  appreciated the appeals  dead Thursday night in  
has boon eoneentrated in  of Samarra.  for calm, and eallnd tho  Tuz Khormato, a mostly  
the capital. its surround­ Shiite and Sunni leaders  shrine bombing "an evil  Kurdish city 130 miles  
ing provinces and tho  again appealed for ealm  aet" aimed at creating  north of Baghdad, and  
provineo of Basra, 340  Thursday following the  strife. Despitn strident  another Sunni preaehor  
miles to tho southoast.  wave of reprisal attacks on  comments from various  was killed in tho mostly  
t\mong the victims was  Sunni mosques. and the  Iraqi leaders, U.S. oflieials  S hi ito e i ty of IIi II a h f>O  
t\twar Bahjat, a widely  number of violent inci­ said they belinvnd main­ miles south of the eapital.  
known Sunni eorrespon­ dents appeared to clodine  stream politieians undnr­ Two Sun n i m o s q u n s  
dont for the Arab satellite  after the government  stood the grave danger  wore burned Thursday in  
television station Al­ extended the curfew.  facing the country and  Baghdad and another in  
;\rabiya.  Iraqi television said the  would try to prevent civil  Mussayih to the south,  
Gunmen in a pickup  eurfew would extend until  war.  poliee said. ;\ Sunni was  
truek shouting "We want  4 p.m. Friday, preventing  "We're not seeing civil  killed when gunnwn nn~d  
tho eorrospondent!" killed  people from attending the  war igniting in Iraq," Maj.  on a mosque in Baqouba,  
Bajhat along with her  week's most important  Gen. Hiek Lyneh, a  35 miles northoast of  
cameraman and engineer  Muslim prayer service.  spokesman for the U.S.  Baghdad.  


Law possibly ignored in port deal 
Associated Press 
W/\SiliNGTON -Tho senior Dnmocrat on the Senate Armed Services Committee angrily accused the Bush administration Thursday of ignoring the law by refusing to extend an investigation of a United Arab Emirates company's takeover of signilkant U.S. port operations. 
Clashing with a Treasury Department oflieial on a mission to ealm a political uproar, Sen. Carl Levin said the law has language speeilically requiring a longer review than the one that an interagency committee conducted, if a business deal could afl'eet national security. 

"Is there not one ageney in this government that believes this takeover eould affect the national security of the United States?" the Miehigan Democrat asked at a eom­mittoe briefing. Chairman John Warner, R-Va., in a very unusual pro­cedure on Capitol llill, allowed reporters to question. the administra­tion witnnsses. 
The Treasury official, Deputy Secretary Hobert Kimmitt, and offi­cials from other agencies said a mul­tiagency group spent three months reviewing the port deal and said that all coneerns about security were sat­isliod. 
"We're not awaro of' a single national security eoneorn raisod recently that was not part of"' tlw three-month review, Kimmitt said. 
Levin insisted that the law that established the multiagntu:y panel speeilil:ally said that any sueh rnview should be lengthened by 45 days it' it eould have an impact on national security. 
Just hours beforo the hoaring, President Bush deelarod that "people don't need to worry about security" in the deal. 
Levin, raising his voiee at the brief­ing, told Kimmitt, "If you want tho law changed, como to Congross and ehange it but don't ignore it." 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 24, 2006 
Think 
continued from page 1 
rejected violence for any rea­son, Gumbleton said. But the distinction arises when those in favor of nonviolence say this position is always the ease, while those who support just war argue exceptions exist. 
lie explained the two major criteria just war proponents evaluate when debating the merits of war, the principles of discretion and proportion­ality. 
"You must be able to wage that war in such a way that you ean make distinctions between combatants and non­combatants," Gumbleton said. "[And you must havel moral eertitude that the good you hope to achieve surpasses the evil you know will happen." 
But Gumbleton said war could never be justified. 
"Jesus taught us how to die -not how to kill," he said. "That was the understanding of the Christian community for over 300 years." 
Delving 

into the his­"Jesus taught us how with cancer and tory of the to die -not how to "horrible birth Church's defects."
kill."

attitude "I visited hospi­toward war, tals in Basra and I Gumbleton Thomas Gumbleton saw with my own said the idea Bishop of Detroit eyes some of these 
of just war is rooted in the second half of the 4th century. The theory later developed into the predominant theology of the Church for the next 1500 to 1600 years. 
But Gumbleton said that theology began to shift as a new form of warfare rocked the world -total war, begin­ning with World War II. 
"It's a whole people, waging war against another people," he said. 
World War II also saw the first devastation wracked by nuclear weapons, Gumbleton said. He focused on the esti­mated 80,000 to 100,000 civilians killed instantly by the bomb dropped on Hiroshima. 
"This bomb is a challenge to God," Gumbleton said. "We say to God, we have the power to destroy everything you made ... [it is] a blasphemy that's immeasurable." 
The next landmark in the Church-war relationship, Gumbleton said, was the Cuban Missile Crisis in 1962. The "very tense time" influ­enced then-Pope John XXIII to produce an encyclical entitled "Pacem in Terris," or Peace on Earth. 

THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
presents 
"Rebecca's Revival: Creating Black Christianity in the Atlantic World" (Harvard, 2005) 
By Jon F. Sensbach, University of Florida 
Saturday, February 25, 2006 9:00a.m. 
The Morris Inn 
"In this atomic era, it is irrational any longer to think of war as an apt means to vin­dicate violated rights," Gumbleton said, quoting John XXIII. 
This irrationality, he said, means there must be "a whole new attitude toward war." 
The Church's official stance was further developed in John Paul II's 1991 encyclical "Centesimos Annus," where the Pope said he repeated the cry, "No -never again war," after watching the Persian Gulf War unfold. 
"To me, this [responseJ sums it up," Gumbleton said. 
In the encyclical, Gumbleton said John Paul II also gave two "very compelling reasons" against war -the first being war "destroys the lives of innocent people." 
"Since World War II, every war has brought about the death of ever larger !numbers of non-combatants]." said Gumbleton, who attributed this to the spread of total war. 
Civilian deaths have been multiplied exponentially by the use of nuclear weapons, Gumbleton said, discussing urani­um's association 
things I've 
described," he said, his voice close to a mur­mur. "The suffering and tragedy is incomprehensible ... The proportionality [of out­weighing the bad with good] is totally gone." 
John Paul II's second argu­ment against war outlined in his encyclical is war "throws into upheaval the lives of those who do the killing," Gumbleton said. 
He quoted Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., who served in Vietnam and was taken as a prisoner of war: "I hated my enemy even before they held me captive, because hate sus­tained me in my devotion to their complete destruction." 
"Listen to what he's saying," Gumbleton said. "'I hated them' -not after they shot him down, not after the six and a half years [McCain spent] in prison. 
"What does that do to us? We're made in the image of God ... We're destroying the image of God, we're destroy­ing our humanness." 
And war makes it more dif­ficult to achieve any resolu­tion or stability -especially regarding the problems that drove the sides to fight in the first place, said Gumbleton, again quoting John Paul II. 
"[War] always leaves behind a trail of hatred and resent­ment," he said. "That makes it very hard to resolve the prob­lems that led to war. 
"How do we restore the moral and social order sub­jected to such horrible vio­lence?" 
Gumbleton said this restora­tion must be accomplished with love and justice, with special concern for a just eco­nomic system. 
"We have to bring about dramatic change in the world in which we live, where some people have so much and so many people have so little," he said. "[We must] transform our world with the fascinating power of love." 
But not everyone in the audience was sold on the message. Freshman Jon Heintz asked Gumbleton sev­eral questions about what the United States could have done differently in handling Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. 
Gumbleton said it all came down to a lack of adequately directed efforts by the United States. 
"Peace requires genuine, respectful negotiation, and it can work," he said. "The largest nation in the world [aeting] with the largest army in the world -that's not negotiation. That's intimida­tion." 
Gumbleton was the second speaker in this spring's Catholic Think Tank lecture series, a student government­coordinated effort to bring prominent Catholics to cam­pus. William Pryor, Jr., U.S. Circuit Judge for the 11th Court of Appeals, spoke Jan. 24 in the first installment of the series. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 


Our Visa® Platinum Credit Card gives you a full 


With our Visa® Platinum Credit Card, you'll enjoy a low interest rate, and no annual fee. 
In addition, you may view your current balance, and make payments online. 
Apply Today! 




NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
*See application tor details and full disclosure. Independent of the University. 
Bush 
continued from page 1 
visit, including whieh route the president's motorcade would take and where protesters -like members of Notre Dame's Progressive Student Allianee (PSA) -would be permitted to congregate. 
Armed with signs and niers, approximately 10 PSA members lined up with members of the Michiana Peace Coalition, local unions and other individual pro­testers outside of Bethel to protest Bush's arrival on the campus. PSA president Joe Murphy said "400 to 500" total people gathered. 
PSA members were namely protesting the War in Iraq and the immigration policies of the 
"It seemed like there 
current adminis­for local area tration, Murphy was a lot ofsupport police officers said. were worth a visit
for protestors. " 
"It seemed like by a two-term there was a lot of president, he said. support for pro­Joe Murphy Klingler said he testers, people president did not believe the 
driving by and 
PSA 
honking horns in the middle of the workday. There was a lot of [pos­itive] feeling," he said. 
The _protest was marked by heated debate between support­ers and opponents of Bush administration policies. 
"There were lots of signs and people were chanting," Murphy said. "There were a couple groups -maybe 10 people ­supporting Bush. There was some intense debate !between the groups]." 
An e-mail this week to PSA members said despite the money poured into the event, the eities of South Bend and Mishawaka were not compensated for the cost to local taxpayers of increased security, road closings and other provisions made for the presidential visit. 

"There were tons of police everywhere blocking off the street and surrounding area," Murphy said. 
Notre Dame College Hepublicans co-president Jonathan Klingler said instead of being a financial burden, the event benefited the area econom­ically. 
"The event ... [brought in] hun­dreds of thousands of dollars to the community-not only to Mishawaka and South Bend ­but to Roseland and Niles as well, through hotel bookings and entertainment for the hundreds of extra people that [were] in the community for the event," he said. 
The presidential visit was a "tremendous honor," Klinger said -an event that "will be remem­bered for years come." The inconveniences of a "few bloeked roads" and a day's worth of overtime 
PSA objected out of concern for the citizens of Michiana, but rather "out of the desire to take a cheap shot at a 
U.S. president with whom the organization happens to dis­agree." 
"Even if the PSA objected to the visit on purely economic grounds, for consistency's sake they should argue against any community which hopes to host the Olympic Games or an international peaee conference because of the cost to the taxpayer," he said. 
Bethel is an evangelical Christian college located in Mishawaka with 1,971 students. The appearance marks the presi­dent's seventh visit to Miehiana in seven years. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 

~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

THE OBSERVER 

Fdday, Fdm'"ry 24,2006 page 7



u sINEs s 
·--------=========================== 

MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
10,673.79 +62.59

}ones ., 
up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,122 153 1,11~ 1,499,545,984 

AMEX  I ,489.54  -12.03  
NASDAQ  2,031.25  +0.93  
NYSE  7.243.28  +32.11  
S&PSOO  1,190.RO  +6.5R  

NIKK£1(Tokyo) II .500. 1 8 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,9RR.50 -44.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ)  +0.14  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.89  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.12  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -0.17  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  +2.29  

+0.05  36.94  
-0.45  23.31  
-0.03  25.20  
-0.03  17.28  
+0.29  12.95  



30-YEAR BOND  -0.49  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.40  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.23  
3-MONTH BILL  +2.02  
Commodities  
-0.23 46.61 -0.17 42.68 -0.09 38.62 +0.52 26.25 


LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
-0.25 51.17 +0.30 436.10 + 1.78 86.58 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 04.9600 EURO 0.7569 POUND 0.5241 CANADIAN$ 1.2482 
IN BRIEF 
Wal-Mart to offer improved benefits 
BENTONVILLE, Ark.-W<LI-Mart-Stores Inc., undnr attack for its hoalth care coverage for its nmployMs, plans improvements that would indude expanding the availability of its lowest cost plan and shortening the waiting periods to enroll part-time workers and their children. 
At the samn time, W<LI-Mart Chief Executive Lne Scott said Thursday that employers cannot continue to meet the rising costs of health care and urged a government-business partnership to find an answer. 
The announcement marks the second time in six months that the world's largest retailer has moved to improve health benefits and comes ahead of Scott's speech Sunday about the issue to the nation's governors, who arc looking for ways to cap rising costs for taxpayer-funded health plans that cover the uninsured. Details of' the nnw health benefit plans arc expected to bn unveiled in the coming months. 
Seott is also expected to renew Wal-Mart's critidsm of bills filod in at least 22 states that would force the retailer to spend more on lwalth care. Maryland has become the first state in thn nation to require Wal-Mart to spend more on employee health care or pay the diiTerence into the state's Medicaid fund. The Hetail Industry Loaders Association has challenged the law in court. 
Fannie Mae finance scandal thickens 
WASIIIN<;T<>N -An oxtensive investiga­tion of embattled Fannie Mae points to its former l'inancn ehief and controller as mainly rnsponsiblo for the aceounting fail­urns at tho mortgage giant now struggling to errwrgo from an $11 billion scandal, said a report n~leased Thursday. 
The report by a team of investigators led by formor Sen. Warren Hudman of New Hampshire also found that former chairman and CEO Franklin Haines, while not sharing direet responsibility, contributnd to a cul­ture of arrogance at the government-spon­sored company. Tho roport comes about 17 months after the revelation that federal regulators had discovnred violations of aeeounting ruins and earnings manipulation by the eompany to ment Wall Street targets. 


Inflation concerns Wall Street 
Volcom produces disappointing earnings as investors collect profits; oil prices drop 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Wall Stroot 
slid lower Thursday, with 
inllation coneerns and a dis­
appointing earnings report 
from Viaeom Inc. prompting 
investors to eollnet profits. A 
drop in oil prices failed to 
mitigatn the losses. 
Investors grew jittery as thn latest urwmploymnnt ligures showed strongth in the labor market. First-Limn joblnss elaims fnll by 20,000 from tlw pnwious wonk to 27H.OOO -a far sharpor drop than neonomists had 
~~xpectnd. 
Whiln a strong labor mar­kPt is gmwrally good nows, Wall Street remains con­cnnwd that tho additional buying power that comes with stoady employment 1:ould push pricns higher and spark inflation, prompt­ing the Federal Heserve to ke<~p hiking intnrnst rates. 
Still, invnstors were pleased with a drop in oil prices, whkh fell bnlow $(>() per barrnl at one point al't.nr the Ennrgy Department rnported a rise in crude oil stockpiles. A barrel of light crude settled at $60.54, down 47 cenl<>, on the New York Mereantilo Exchange. 
"Certainly the move in oil is good, and the market cer­tainly perked up somewhat after that inventory report," said Peter Cardillo, chief strategist and senior vice president at S.W. Bach & Co. "For the intermediate term, there doesn't seem to be a supply/demand problem out there. But you don't know when that'll change." 
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 67.95, or 0.61 percent, to 11 ,069.22. 
Broader stock indicators also fell. The Standard & Poor's 500 index lost 4.88, or 0.38 percent, to 1,287.79, and the Nasdaq composite index dropped 3.85, or 0.17 percent, to 2,279.32. 
Bonds fell, with the yield on the l<l-year Treasury note climbing to 4.56 per­cent from 4.53 percent late Wednesday. The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices rose. 


Stocks jumped to fresh 4 1/2-year highs over the past few weeks as strength in the economy encouraged investors. Yet concerns remain, including whether the Federal Reserve's inter­est rate hikes will cut off economic growth. With little news Thursday to keep momentum alive and uncer­tainty about the state of the economy later in the year, profit-taking ate into the rally. 
"It's very difficult for investors to extrapolate any­thing from these short-term moves in the market," said Christopher Conkey, chief investment officer at Evergreen Investments. "Don't get too excited about days like yesterday, and softnning housing market. don't get too excited about Clothing retailer Limited days like today, either." Brands Inc. said Wndnnsday 
In its first earnings report its fhurth-quartnr earnings since spinning off CBS dimb 36 percent on strong Corp., Viacom Inc. said its sales at its Vietoria's Seeret fourth-quarter profits fell stores and a eontinuing due to poor performance at turnaround at its Express its Paramount movie studio stores. Limited Brands, arm as well as one-time which beat Wall Street fore­charges related to the com­casts by 4 cents pnr sharn, pany's reorganization. added 68 cenl<>, or 2.9 pnr­Viaeom fell 96 cents to $41. cent, to $24.09. 
Home builder Toll Mortgage broker Fannin Brothers Inc. rose $1.05 to Mae jumped $1.23 to $33.54 after the company $57.14 after investigators said fourth-quarter profits implicated the company's jumpod 49 percent and that former chiof exeeutive and its backlog of building proj­ehief financial ollicer for its ects rose 22 pereent by the $11 billion accounting scan­end of the quarter. However, dal. Investors showed relinf the number of new con­that no current executivns tracts fell 21 percent, rais­were namnd in the investi­ing new concerns about a gation. 
Average family income rates falling 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -After the booming 1990s when incomes and stock prices were soaring, this decade has been less of a thrill ride for most American families. 
Average incomes after adjusting for inOation aetually fell from 2001 to 2004, and the growth in net worth was the weakest in a decade, the Federal Heserve reported Thursday. 
Many families were struggling in the aftermath of' the 2001 recession and the bursting of the stock market bub­ble in 2000, the Fed's latest "Survey of Consumer Finances" showed. The comprehensive look at household bal­ance sheets comes every three years. 

Average family incomes, after adjusting for inflation, fell to $70,700 in 2004, a drop of 2.3 percent when compared with 2001. That was the weakest showing since a decline of' 
11.3 percent from 1989 to 1992, a 
period that also covered a recession. The average incomes had soared by 
17.3 percent in the 1998-2001 period and 12.3 percent from 1995 to 1998 as the country enjoyed the longest economic expansion in history. 
The median family income, the point where half the families made more and halt' made less, rose a tiny 
1.6 percent to $43,200 in 2004 com­pared with 2001. 
Economists said the weakness in the most recent period was understand­able given the loss of 2.7 million jobs from early 2001 through August of' 2003, when the country was strug­gling with sizable layoff's eausnd by the recession, the terrorist attacks and corporate accounting scandals. 
The weak ineomn and thn stock market dedino in the oarly part of' thn decade, which wipod out $7 trillion of' paper wealth, had an advnrs1~ impact on family balance sheets. 
Net worth, the dil'f'ererH:e botween assets and liabilities such as loans, rose by (d percont in the 2001-2004 period to an average of' $44X,200, after adjusting for inflation. That gain was far below the hugn increases of' 
25.6 percent from 1995 to I<)9R and 
28.7 percent from 199X to 2001, increases that were fueled by soar­ing stock prices. 
----------------:--------------------------------------------------­
page 8 Friday, February 24, 2006 
The Observer + NEWS 

Pri01rose 
continued from page 1 
the monologues, Nussbaum attempted to represent various perspectives within the Catholic, Protestant and Jewish traditions, as well as nonreligious views. 
"[In 'The Primrose Path,'] there are conservatives, liberals, athe­ists and orthodox believers all onstage together," she said. "It gives them a chance to speak with dignity and be not just labels but human beings." 
Like "The Vagina Monologues," "The Primrose Path" will be per­formed in an academic setting ­in this case, the Mendoza Auditorium. 
Nussbaum said if productions involving sexuality are down­played at the University, even orthodox believers risk sacrific­ing the broadcasting of their views. 
"The problem is that the Catholic perspective is squashed as well," she said. 

Cardile 
continued from page l 
struck by a car "while walking home [from] the Linebacker ILounge]." Thesing said in an e-mail sent Sunday night. 
Thesing said in Thursday's e-mail that Cardile's parents 
Though issues of sexuality are often politicized, Nussbaum said at its core, sexuality is simply "a human issue." 
She expressed uncertainty about how the campus would react to her production. 
"I hope well," she said. "I have no idea. I hope people come with open minds and hearts. I think it's different from what they've seen before." 
Approaching controversial issues with an open mind is essential to intelligent discourse, Nussbaum said. 
"I don't have an agenda about what is the right way to live your life," she said. "I think the right way to live life is to think serious­ly about it, and that's what the play eneourages people to do." 
Throughout the production's development, Nussbaum received writing advising from English professor Valerie Sayers and staging advising from theolo­gy department chair John Cavadini. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 
arrived in South Bend on Monday and would be staying "a few days as he continues on his road to recovery." 
"He hopes to get back to classes soon, maybe even [today]." Thesing said in Thursday's e-mail. 
Cardile was a sports writer for The Observer during the 2004-05 school yea~ 

Haiti group shown on Adobe software page 
Speical to The Observer 
A group of Notre Dame graph­ic design students who used Adobe software in their collabo­ration with the University's Haiti Program, is currently featured in an article in the education sec­tion of Adobe's main Web site. 
The principal goal of Notre Dame's Haiti Program is to elimi­nate lymphatic filariasis {LF) from the impoverished Caribbean nation. LF, which causes the grotesque swelling of body parts known as elephantia­sis, can be treated by adding nutrients to salt, a kny ingredient in the Haitian diet. However, the salt is often discolored as a result of the primitive conditions in which it is harvnsted, so Haitians often wash their salt before using it, which washes away the nutrients and renders it useless for combating the dis­ease. 
In an effort to keep Haitians, 65 percent of whom are illiter­ate, from washing their salt, the design students used Adobe Creative Suite and Adobe Illustrator to design logos and visual concepts to help market the healing ef)"ect of the fortified salt. 
The Adobe article details the efforts of the design students, who graduated last year, as well as those of industrial design and MBA students working alongside Father Thomas Streit, a Notre Dame biologist and director of the Haiti Program. 

Kuin&Cil!i!Ct 
·~ 
Great Job Opportunities!! 
ELe.xlble tJ.ou.~ &GRgAT I?AY,!! We offer 1 0-40+ hours/week 
Route Delivery 
$9.00 -$12.00/ Hour 



574-234-5309 
Located, Just Minutes from Campus 
We Also Have Facilities in Other Cities, Call Us! 
S«<;ngbrook 1-&eC~0.¢152 NOII/1Wcli>.iur 1.SCC·~l2·6S<;'G F< W~yn~ 1·SCO··Gl2·GSi~ Motl<3n h'lCM42.CSS4 S~r.:On H•rbor 1-MC-457-4423 Soull> Sand 1-<it0457-44:!$ C<r"';n Poht 1../lCI}-457-44.2:> $pri"\\fio!<I1·SCO·G4~·$S&4 
No Exp~rl~<nc;; Necessary·. Tllli!lm oM !.i!tiiin! awif>!l ~hoc! ni'!<J work;, 
P&~l!!!.! du;lng wm~r bm<lk. Wi" alfrtr St.'"twiu.lf E&t:<:iMlh•. SUirt frui11t~ ~­
Schedule an Interview A.S.A.P. Bring a Friend I 
www.homecitvice.com 



New Orleans anticipates festival 
Associated Press NEW ORLEANS -They're throwing Mardi Gras beads again -so many strands, they're landing in tree branch­es and getting snagged on the trellised balconies of the French Quarter. You'll find them adorning the arms of Spanish statues. Tourists are wearing them, but these days so are contractors and the National Guard. It's hard to walk on Bourbon Street without stepping on them. You're likely to crunch them underfoot, long necklaces of plastic pearls brightening the asphalt. At the corner of Bourbon and St. Peter, Pat O'Brien's is once again serving its syrupy, yet potent Hurricane cocktail. At Tropical Isle, you can get an equally potent Hand Grenade in a tall, plastic go-cup. But walk to the end of Bourbon Street, take a left on Esplanade Avenue, a right on Rampart Street and head east. At first, the debris comes in bits: A small pile of siding. A rusted box spring. One taped­up refrigerator. At first, you find them in neat piles, in the front yard or outside on the curb. There's still a semblance of order. But keep going. It gets worse. You pass an elegant sofa, the kind you might imagine a grand dame reclining in, sip­ping her mint julep. It is lodged in the middle of an intersec­tion. A few miles farther, the innards of rotting houses spill out on both sides of the road. Six months have passed since Katrina ravaged this city. For a half a year, its people have counted the dead {officially, 1,080 in Louisiana and 231 in Mississippi) and struggled 
mightily to keep their city among the living. 
A slimmed-down Mardi Gras is testament to their success; a tour of the devastation that remains is testament to how far they have to go. 
Hurricane Katrina created an estimated 60.3 million cubic yards of debris in Louisiana, 25 times as much as the ruins of the "After 91I I schedule," he said. 
Indeed, in the French Quarter and on St. Charles Avenue, on Magazine Street and in the plantation-style mansions of Uptown, life has moved on, though protective blue tarps that serve as roofs for many are a constant 
reminder of the 
work left to be 
done. 
in New In the Quarter, 

World Trade uber chef Paul
York, it took them 
Center and Prudhomme is enough to fill the six to eight months blackening his Superdome more to get out of the signature redfish than 13 times. Of again. Bourbon
fog."
that, only 32 mil­House is shuck­lion cubic yards ing oysters, and -a bit more Ray Nagin Antoine's, the than half -has New Orleans mayor 166-year-old din­
been removed. 
Meanwhile, there are just under 2,000 people listed as missing. Some are not missing at all -they turned up, but their families never notified authorities. Hundreds of oth­ers, though, were very likely washed into the Gulf of Mexico or swept into Lake Pontchartrain or alligator­infested swamps, according to Dr. Louis Cataldie, Louisiana's medical examiner. Still more may be buried in the rubble. 
At a hurricane morgue near Baton Rouge, 86 bodies remain unidentified. State officials are trying to reach relatives for another 74 who've been identi­fied but have no place to go. 
Mayor Ray Nagin says a com­parison to New York City should be a favorable one. "Let me remind you that after 9/11 in New York, it took them six to eight months to get out of the fog of what happened to them. And to date, there's still a big hole in the ground. So when I look at everything that's going on, I think we're right on ing icon, is dish­
ing up plates of 

Pompano Pontchartrain with slices of tart lemon. 
Yet even here, Katrina has left her mark. All three restau­rants are short-handed. Antoine's, which lost its $200,000 wine collection in the storm, is shifting its wine Jist away from French staples, embracing New World wines instead. 
And look closely at the brass band playing outside Prudhomme's K-Paul's Louisiana Kitchen: The golden sheen on the tuba is gone, lost in the deluge at the musician's house. 
But in the flood zone, the destruction is not so subtle. Leave the French Quarter on Rampart and head east, toward the devastated Ninth and Lower Ninth wards and East New Orleans. 
All around are the carcasses of flooded houses. Katrina laid waste to more than 215,000 homes. Many are abandoned, their doors wide open. 

Friday, February 24, 2006 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Average fatnily incomes rising, fe-wer investing in stocks 
Associated l'rcss 

WASIIINCTON -Amorican familios who own their homes have enjoyed strong gains in homo valuos in rocont years, but tho otlwr parts of their bal­ancn sheots haven't been doing as woll. 
A bursting stock market bub­ble at. tho boginning of the decade, a recession and a pro­longml p(~riod of job losses have all takon their toll. 
Average incomes, whieh had bonn posting double-digit gains during tlw boom of the 1990s, aetually fell, aft(~r adjusting for inflation. in 2004 when com­parmi with 2001, the Federal Hnsnrve said Thursday. 
And Americans' net worth, despite the gain in home priees, rose at tlw smallest rate in a decade during tlw 2001-04 period. 
The C(HJtral bank's "Survey of Consunwr· Finances," a com­prPiwnsivn look at household balan(:n slwnts, depieted in stark terms the contrasts lwlwenn tlw I !J1J0s and the eco­nomic troubles of the current decade. 
Average family incomes, after adjusting for inl'lation. fell to $70,700 in 2004, a drop of 2.3 percent when compared with 2001. That was the weakest showing since a decline of 11.3 percent from 1989 to 1992, a 
period that also recession. 
The average incomes had soared by 17.3 percent in the 1998-2001 peri­od and 12.3 per­cent from 1995 to 1998 as the country enjoyed the longest eeo­nomie expansion in history. 
The median family ineome, the point where h1tlf tho familios 
covered a 
said Sen. Charles Schumer, D­N.Y. 
The Fed survey found that the percentago of Americans who ownod stocks, either directly or through a mutual fund, fell by :{.:~ porcontage points to 48.6 percent in 2004, down from 51.9 percent in 2001. Analysts said this was an indication that investors burned by plunging stock prices in the decade's early years have been leery about getting back into the market. 
The share of Americans' financial assets invested in stocks dipped to 17.6 pereent in 2004, down from 21.7 percent in 2001. But rel'leeting the housing boom. the share of assets made up by home own­ership rose to 50.3 percent in 2004, eomparnd with 46.9 per­cent in 2001. 
The Fed survny found that debts as a pen:nnt of total assets rose to 15 pnn:nnl. in 2004, up lhun 12.1 percent in 2001. Mortgages to finance home purchasns were by far the biggest share of total d(~bt at 75.2 pnrcent in 2004, unchangml from the 200 I ltwd. 
Then~ was conr.1~r·n that fami­lins may start to feel nven more squeezed as tlw cost of li nanc­ing tlwir debts inneases along with rising interest rates. 
While surging honw values have supported consumer spending in recent years, ana­lysts worry about the oconomie impact if, as expneted, Uw home price surge bogins to slow this year. 

loss of 2. 7 million jobs from early 2001 through August 2003, when the country was struggling with sizable layoffs caused by the recession, the terrorist attacks and corporate accounting seandals. 
The weak ineome and the stock market decline in the 
The 2001-04 performance was the worst since net worth actually declined by 9.9 percent in the 1989-92 period. 
The median family net worth, the point whore half the fami­lies owned more and half owned less, stood at $93,100 in 2004, a rise of 1.5 porcent after 
"These statistics show why, even though GDP is rising, most people do not feel better off" 
Charles Schumer 
U.S. senator 

early part of the adjusting for inflation from deeade, whieh 2001. wiped out $7 tril­The report showed that the lion of paper slowdown in th(~ accumulation wealth, had an of net worth would have beon adverse impact even more sizable except for on family balance the fact that homeowners have sheets. enjoyed big gains in the value 
Net worth, the of their homes in recent yoars. difference The gap between the very between assets wealthy and other income and liabilities groups widenod during the sueh as loans. period. rose by 6. 3 per­The top 10 percent of house­eent in the 2001-holds saw their net worth rise 04 period to an by 6.1 percent to an average of averago of $3.11 million, while tho bottom 
made more and half made less, $448,200, after adjusting for 25 percent suiTered a decline roso a tiny 1.6 pereent to inflation. That gain was far from a net worth in whieh their $4:{,200 in 2004 compared with bolow the huge incroases of assets equaled their liabilities 2001. 25.6 percont from 1995 to 1998 in 2001 to owing $1,400 more Eeonomists said the weak­and 28.7 percent from 1998 to than their total assets in 2004. ness in tho most reeent period 2001, increases that were "This is the continuing story was understandable given the fueled by soaring stock prices. of the rich getting rieher," said 
David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's in Nnw York. "Clearly, the gains in wealth are going to the top end." 
Demoerats used the new report to blast President Bush's economic policies, contending it would be wrong to make por­manent his tax cuts which pri­marily benelitod the wealthy. 
"These statistics show why, 

even though GDP is rising, most 
people do not font bettor oiT," 
ECDC 2006-07 Registration 
The Early Childhood Development Center at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame (ECDC) is currently registering for the 2006 Summer program and the 2006-07 School Year. 
Registration Due Dates: 2/15/06 2006-07 Kindergarten Registration 3/1/06 2006 Summer Program 4/3/06 2006-07 School Year For more information please call ECDC-SMC: 284-4693 or ECDC-ND: 631-3344. 
Presented by
APRil 18 • THI JOYCI CINTIR 
On the campus of the University of Notre Dame Tickets at the Notre Dame Joyce Center Ticket Office (located at Gate 10) ~ 
Charge-By-Phone: 574-631-7356 
~Pacific Coast Concerts;
Order online at www.und.com & click on "Tickets" 
THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, February 24, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

The lndependnu, Daily Newspaper St:ru;ng Nom Dam~ ~nd Saint Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 

SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTIIOLLER: Jim Kirihara 

WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO (574) 631-7471 
fAX 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 observad@nd:edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY's DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisemenrs based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing EditOrs and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions thr5mgh letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The 015servc:r (USPS 599 24000) i$ published Mo-nday through Friday C!:K<:(!pt d!Jring e~m aud vaCRtir:ln periods. Asubscciptlo-n ro The Obsc:rV(:r ~ StOO for one ac:ademk year; $55 for on~ se~m!:St-er. 
The Observer ls published~ POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send ,addres~ com:cdons-to: None Dame, IN 46556..0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Noue D11mt: ro. no, 779 and adilidunal m:V.I~ng offices, 024 S<J1.1th mn~ng Han 
Nor«: Dame, IN 465%--Q779 

The Observ~r Is a member ofthe Associated Pt~-All repmducti()n righu are reserved. . 
TODAY'S STAFF 

Mooney well on her way 
Slightly more than two years ago, the Saint Mary's Board of Trustees announced Carol Mooney as the 11th president of the College, and as the trustees wrap up their meetings on campus today they have every reason to be proud of that decision. 
With an English Literature degree from Saint Mary's, a law degree from Notre Dame and a distinguished adminis­trative career, Mooney might have seemed like the shoo-in candidate for tradition-proud Saint Mary's, and perhaps she was. Nevertheless, Mooney walked into LeMans Hall carry­ing strong ideas for inspiring growth at the 
O 
Th
College and has since proved she has the 

oserver 
attract and retain minority students. 
Furthermore, the president is highly regarded by the stu­dent body. Her Saint Mary's diploma and her successful career earned her their respect, but her visibility at student performances and hall events earned her their affection. 
Having defined herself as a driven leader, Mooney must now act on similar principles to further growth at the College. 
While Saint Mary's rejoiced this past month when two of 
its vice presidents were hired to head other institutions, the announcement nevertheless meant serious holes in the Salnt Mary's administration. Linda 
leadership capabilities to see them through. Timm, Vice President of Student Affairs and During a year with an unusually small first newly appointed President of Mount Mary
Editorial
year class, Mooney told audiences attending College in Milwaukee, Wise., has been at the 
her Jan. 17, 2005 inauguration weekend that increasing and stabilizing enrollment at Saint Mary's would be a top priority. Mooney created the position of Vice President for Enrollment Management and hired Dan Meyer to head recruiting efforts. While it is much too early to declare the campaign over, the Office of Admissions has at least proven progress with a 22 percent increase in applica­tions received thus far this year, the most at Saint Mary's in 17 years. 
Mooney also said she wanted to stabilize Saint Mary's finances by doubling the College's $100,000 endowment fund and therefore rendering it less dependent on tuition. As promised, Mooney has traveled extensively to meet with friends and alumnae of the College and as of Monday the endowment stood at $107.5 million. In addition, the presi­dent is close to securing the funds needed to break ground on a new academic building, scheduled for this fall. 
One recurring and controversial topic of discus.sion at Saint Mary's since Mooney's arrival has been diversity, and Mooney has made it clear she is committed to diversify not only the College's student body but also its faculty and staff. Mooney implemented a policy requiring that a member of a traditionally underrepresented ethnic group be among the final pool of candidates for any position at Saint Mary's, and if this aim is not fulfilled then it must be explained in writ­ing. Meyer has demonstrated he is on the same page as Mooney, attending a Student Diversity Board (SOB) forum and speaking frankly about the need for the institution to 
College for 11 years and has built close work­ing relationships with student government officers. Vice President and Dean of Faculty Pat White, who will take the helm at Wabash College in Crawfordsville, Ind., brought millions of dollars in grants to the College. Mooney must hire replacements who will live up to the example set by Timm and White and who believe in the value of a liberal arts education. 
In her early months, Mooney stated she would like to see the College break into the top 50 nationally-recognized lib­eral arts colleges. Mooney should strive to elevate the aca­demic standards and reputation of Saint Mary's as a liberal arts institution while respecting its burgeoning nursing and education programs. 
Another aspect of the school that deserves the president's attention is athletics. On Tuesday Saint Mary's hosted its first-ever MIAA tournament basketball game. Belles basket­ball, soccer and cross country had their best seasons in the history of the programs this year. If the athletic department can produce results on a tight budget with minimal facili­ties, imagine what it could do with generous financial and administrative support. 
The progress Mooney has initiated at Saint Mary's is a tangible testament to her abilities as a leader. Her perform­ance during the last two years has earned her the admira­tion of her colleagues and the student body. It is now up to the president to feed that momentum and drive Saint Mary's into the future. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


'0U~ LIKE lMT? YOU'R£601N6TO WEAN YOURSELF OFF OIL? ANDAFTfR ALL I'V£ t:'ONE R>RYOV!'' 
News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY

Amanda Michaels Chris Khorey Karen Langley Dan Murphy 
Do you thiok the College Readership Program is Jenny Hames Chris Hine the right use for the student activities fee increase'/ 


~ Submit aLetter
Viewpoint Scene 
a. No,the money should go to campus duhs instead 

''All that we are is the result of
Joey King Liz Byrum b. Yes, because that's why the student activities fee was passed 
what we have thought."
Graphics 
C. Yes, because Ithink the program is good for 

1to tbeEditor at 
i 
Siddhartha Gautama
Alexa Antekeier Notre Dame 
d. No. the money should go to some other purpose 

philosopher and religious leader
Matt Hudson 
wvvw.ndsmcobserver.com
*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com 
and is based on 36 responses. 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Friday, February 24, 2006 page II 
This Lent, try looking at the chalice half-full 

This time of year one often overhears pnopln diseussing what kinds of things they are giving up for Lent. Of course you have the little kids giving up some­thing they dislike to begin with such as peas. Then you havn the kind of' people who give up choco­late. You will some­times !war really ambitious people give up something like any kind of' dess1~rt or tel­«Wision or instant messnngnr. Once in a blun moon you may nven lwar a college student say that thoy will give up alr.ohol for 40 days (for you sneond snmester sen­iors, I'll lwlinvn this when I see il). In my family we lake a slightly dil'f'ercnt approach to the Lnnten season. 
Though many people would not guess this about nw, I am far from optimistic. I think I have inlwrited this less-than­sunny outlook from my father. If' the phone rings at horne after 10 p.m., he irnmmliatnly assumes the worst and 

Molly Acker 
Nobody Likes a Dumb Blonde 
says "Who died?" or a personal 
favorite when things are grim, "Stop 
the world. I want to get off." The past few years around Lent, he and I have decided that rather than giving up something tangible we should give up our pessimistic attitudes. We try and look at the brighter side of things and become "glass is half-full" kind of peo­ple for at least 40 days. 
Despite our valiant efforts and the encouragement we give one another on our quest for positive attitudes during this season, it is sometimes difficult to do so. It is at these times, when opti­mism does not seem to be enough, that my dad always says, "Just say a little prayer." No matter what time of year, this little saying is a constant comfort to me. The power of prayer is some­thing that all of us can turn to no mat­ter how insignificant or grave a worry of ours may be. 
It soems to me that many of' us lose sight of why we chose to go to Holy Cross, Saint Mary's and Notre Dame to begin with. Sure there are the obvious reasons such as great academie repu­tations or legendary athletie teams to cheer on, but what about the fact that these are great Catholic institutions? I don't doubt that many of us decided upon these schools because we wanted to be a part of an environment that embraces the morals and valmls of the Church. Nevertheless, we all get stressed from time to time about our grades, futures and relationships. be it with friends, family or significant oth­ers. Though it's normal to worry or complain to anyone who is willing to listen, why not say a little prayer? We are all lucky enough to be a part of community that embraces the Catholic tradition -a tradition that teaches us that there is always someone we can to turn to. 

It is not surprising that these four years can be overwhelming at times when one considers the·fact that we are on our own for the first time and trying to plan for our futures by declar­ing majors, finding jobs or getting accepted into graduate schools. On top of' this. many of us have to deal with greater tribulations such as the loss of' loved ones or failed relationships. It is at these times that a prayer can be the greatest comfort of all. There comes a time when ambition and positive think-

Ignored, reviled 

Long bnfore University President Father Jenkins made his famous spneches about this event and "The Vagina Monologues," we participat­ed in discussions with the University administration in which the Pamela University asked us Robertson to change the Wojcik and Jill name of the event, Godmllow which had prnvi­ously benn called Guest The Queer Film Columnists Festival. Their rationale was that "queer" was too inflammatory and "festival" too cel­ebratory. (One of the organizers asked whether the administration would also be advising the organiz­ers of upcoming "The Asian Film Fnstival" to change their name. This query was not appreciated.) We Elmphasized that the event was driv­en by student desire, and reflected a felt need among students, gay and straight, to have spaces to discuss and explore issues like homosexual­ity in a Catholic context. From the University's perspective, this was less important than the public nature of the event and the atten­tion it would draw from alumni and critics outside the University. 
Despite our misgivings about par­ticipating in the culture of the clos­nt, we decided to run the event within the University's parameters. We felt it was important to have the event and to make it as successful as possible in the hopes that it, and other events like it, could find a place on eampus in the future. Unhappily, we negotiated the name change, cheeked all our publicity and advertising through the admin­istration, and accommodated other restrictions. We even fired a poster designer whose design for the poster seemed to have an almost subliminal "Q" lurking in the image. 
Nonetheless, we felt it was impor­tant to engage in some form of protost or critique. We thought about ordering T-shirts that say "Queer? Not Ilere!"or "This is Not a Festival." Finally, we decided to write and distribute an "audience survey." 
Our "survey" began with a series of questions aimed at the 
University's assumption that only people who were themselves gay and lesbian would attend the event. This included multiple choice ques­tions such as "Do you listen to Judy Garland: a) daily b) oceasionally or 
c) never." Then we moved to slightly more pointed critiques such as "I did/did not (circle one) attend the Asian Film Festival because a) I was afraid I would 'go' Asian after­wards; b) I felt that the Buddhist viewpoint of the films would conflict with my faith; or c) I wanted to see quality films from a culture other than my own." The survey ended with a question about whether the festival should be held again and whether it should be called "The Rock Hudson Memorial Festival," "The Festival That Dare Not Speak Its Name," or "The Don't Ask, Don't Tell Festival." 
The survey was intended to intro­duce some levity into the discussion, 
.and to poke fun at some of the absurd and offensive assumptions we had encountered. To our sur­prise, people filled them out­earnestly. In the last week or so, we have received a few dozen. Most telling, though perhaps not surpris­ing, are the answers to question five: "As a staff/faculty/student (cir­cle one) member of the University, I feel that my sex/gender/identity (cir­cle one) is a) welcomed; b) ignored; 
c) reviled." Not a single response we got answered "welcome." Regardless of whether they circled "sex," "gender" or "identity," all felt "ignored" or "reviled." 
We asked ourselves, who are these people? Leaving aside racial and ethnic identities, since the tenor of our questions was geared more to issues of sex and gender, we consid­ered the options. Gays and lesbians? Certainly, since their presence on campus is ignored, and since their student organization has been refused official club standing. Heterosexual women? Quite possi­bly, especially as the name of their body parts are deemed offensive, and they are caught in a culture of date rape and hook ups. What about straight men? Could they also feel ignored or reviled? To the degree that heterosexual male desire is also caught between the twin social poles of parietals and hook-ups, maybe straight men might also feel that their sex/gender/identity does not fit exactly with the dominant ideal. Ultimately, we thought, unless you are straight, anti-gay or asexu­al, you might not feel completely at home in your sex/gender/identity here. 

In Alexander Doty's lecture "Gay and Lesbian Film, Queer Theory and the Academy," which he presented during the "event," he put forth a definition of "queer" that captures the strong sense of marginalization and difference that we read in the surveys·. For Doty, queer is distinct from gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered identities. Queer can function as a shorthand for those identities but is not limited to or simply a reflection of one's sexual identity. Instead, Doty argues, queer can be a flexible subject position for the expression of all sorts of non-, or anti-, or contra-straight cultural production and reception. And, he suggests, even straight people can have queer moments, like the straight male athlete who finds him­self sympathetic to the plight of the lovers in "Brokeback Mountain," or the straight girl who discovers a sympathy for lesbians during a per­formance of "The Vagina Monologues." In this broad sense, perhaps all the students who feel ignored or reviled at Notre Dame are a little bit queer, and maybe we are, too. 
And, in this spirit, maybe we need more "queer" festivals and events of all kinds that enable students to create spaces where they feel less marginalized and more welcome at Notre Dame. 
Pamela Robertson Wojcik and Jill Godmilow are faculty members in the Department ofFilm, TV and Theatre and served as official and unofficial advisors to the student organizers of "Gay and Lesbian Film: Filmmakers, Narratives, Spectatorships." They can be con­tacted at Pamela. WojciJ.;.5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ing only goes so far. When no matter how much we may want to help or suc­ceed, there is nothing we ean do. Thnsn are the times when one should turn to the power of prayer. 
Of course this is not to say that onn should stop studying and just pray to do well on a test. Nor should you pray that you get a convertible for your birthday. It is just that with our lwetie lives it is easy to loose touch with what's important. In this season that is meant to be a time of rPileetion and repentance the role of prayer plays a very significant part. No matter what it is you are praying for, if you hav1~ a lit­tle faith then you can trust that every­thing will be okay. Take it from a pes­simist, when things seem hopnless there is no greater comfort than know­ing that you've got (;od on your side. Af'tnr all, he is thn Almighty. 
Molly Acker is a senior communica­tion studies and luunanistic studies double major at Saint Mary's..'.'he can be contacted at acke675R@nd.edu 
The 11iews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Supporting Readership 
I am writing in support of the College Readership Program, which was discussed in Thursday's issue of The Observer ("Readership stirs controversy," Feb. 24). I am glad to see that the increase in the stu­dent activities fee will be used for some­thing beneficial by providing major news­papers to our students free of charge. 
The article mentioned that those who oversee the distribution of financial assets to various student organizations on campus were upset that their budgets were being cut. Mac Russell said that students should know that their money is being sent off­campus. This complaint is ridiculous f'or a number of reasons. 
Fii"st of all, there are over 300 student­run organizations on campus. It is impossi­ble for an individual student to participate in any more than a handful of them. Yet, money from the student activities fee is used to fund all of them. With the introduc­tion of the College Readership Program, every student will bo given the opportunity to read one of the newspapers provided. In fact, the money will now bn used more fair­ly than it has in the past. Funds will not be sent off-campus. They will remain on-earn­pus and be utilized in a better way than in the past. 
Finally, however, it is eritkally important that student activities money actually be used to benefit students. The College Readership Program does this directly by making news readily available. The Club Coordination Council merely provides funds to a plethora of student run organi­zations, the majority of which no one eares about. Most of these organizations do not benefit more than a handful of' students in any way. If these organizations are con­cerned about finances, they should raise money on their own to supplement the sup­port they receive from the University. 
However, for what it's worth, I feel that the activity fee all of us are roquirnd to pay should be used for something that ean ben­efit all of us. I think the College Headership Program is the best way to accomplish this. 
Joe Brutto junior Carroll Hall Feb. 23 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Friday, February 24, 2006 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
ArtsFest welcomes 'The Merchant of Venice' 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Assistant Scene Edi ror 
Actors From the London Stage will perform William Shakespeare's "_The Merchant of Venice" this weekend in the Decio Mainstage Theatre of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts (DPAC). The production will feature the acting talents of Christopher Staines, Louise Yates, Gregory Cox, Isabel Pollen and Tim Hardy. 
Actors From the London Stage is now in its 30th year, making it one of the old­est established touring Shakespeare groups in the world. The group (which features a rotating east of actors) tours semi-annually, with stops at over a dozen universities across the United States. In previous years, the troupe has performed "A Midsummer's Night Dream," "Romeo and Juliet" and "Othello" at Notre 
way in which they perform. Utilizing a cast of only five, the troupe covers all of the parts, splitting roles and performing as multiple characters. This becomes particularly challenging in scenes in which a single actor must play two or more characters. The style and manner­isms that actors employ help differenti­ate between them, which also shows off their acting chops. 
Additionally, props, set design and costuming are relatively sparse, allow­ing the acting and the words of Shakespeare to take center stage. These stylistic tendencies have been a staple of the Actors From the London Stage and have served them well over the past sev­eral years. Most of their performances have sold out and been extremely well­received by the Notre Dame community. 
This semester's program, "The Merchant of Venice," is one of the Bard's more controversial plays. Described as 
"a tale of 

Dame. They have betrayal and
Notre Dame Spring ArtsFest

performed in the revenge," Deeio Mainstage though nomi­
Actors From the London Stage presents

Theatre the past nally one of
Shakespeare's The Merchant ofVenice

two years -a Shakespeare's venue so well­comedies, it
Friday at 7:30 p.m., Saturday at 2:30 p.m.

suited to perform­follows three
DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, 

ance that the characters -
Decio Mainstage Theatre 

actors do not need Bassanio, to use· micro-Antonio and phones. Though Shylock -as their repertoire is primarily they plot and scheme over a loan of Shakespeare, they have performed 3,000 ducats. The moneylender Shylock works by other playwrights. agrees to the loan on the condition that 
What makes the Actors From the if the loan is not repaid in three months, London Stage particularly unique is the he gets to exact a pound of flesh from 
DVD REVIEW 
Antonio. 

Though not as famous as some of the playwright's other works, "The Merchant of Venice" is still one of Shakespeare's better comedies. As with most of the Bard's work, it still has its share of notable scenes, particularly a well-known monologue by Shylock defending his Judaism that asks, "If you prick us, do we not bleed?" 
Yet what makes "The Merchant of Venice" problematic is in its presentation of Shylock, a Jewish moneylender. Shylock's wickedness is indicative of anti-Semitism, a particularly rampant problem in Shakespeare's contemporary Elizabethan England. As with films like director D. W. Griffith's "Birth of a 

B-list superheroes make'Avengers' nostalgic, flawed 
By TAE ANDREWS 
Scene Critic 
The storyline of "Ultimate Avengers: The Movie," is standard comic book fare -a plot revolving around Nazi-sympa­thizing extraterrestrials bent on global domination. In response, General Nick Fury, leader of S.H.I.E.L.D. -an acronymic military organization designed to save the world -decides to activate a team of superheroes to save the daY.. 
It would appear that the good gener­al's philosophy on choosing superhero leadership is akin to selecting Cap'n Crunch as a quality breakfast cereal ­"you and the Cap'n make it happen!" But in this case, there can be no doubt that picking Captain America to lead any superhero squad is always a wise deci­sion. 
Fortunately, after serving his country valiantly in World War II, Captain America was conveniently frozen in time in a huge slab of underwater ice. After being rediscovered, the Captain is popped in the microwave and unfrozen from stasis, allowing him to save America and act as a symbol for a whole new generation. 
The Captain's patriotic get-up practi­cally bleeds Americana. In fact, his red­white-and-blue wardrobe appears to have been fashioned by FOX News ' graphics designer. Fortunately, Captain America has at least managed to shed the tufts of bald eagle feathers that adorned his temples in the comics. But he still looks ready for a cameo appear­ance during the opening montage of the Colbert Report. 
The main problem with the Avengers is that the team is made up of B-list Marvel superheroes, which could explain the film being animated rather than shot as live-action, or perhaps more tellingly, its straight-to-DVD release. 
The members of the Avengers range from failed live-action movie characters (the Incredible Hulk) to the criminally underappreciated (Iron Man), to the just plain bizarre (Thor). Believing himself to be the Norse god of thunder, Thor speaks softly but carries an absolutely massive hammer, conveniently allowing him to play whack-a-mole on bad guys with impunity. Watching Thor in action practically begs for a soundtrack by MC Hammer -evildoers simply "can 't 
touch this" when it's "hammer time." 


The rest of the squad is rounded out by various flotsam and jetsam from the Marvel world, includ­ing Giant Man (exactly what it sounds like), the Wasp and the Black Widow. Unlike some of Stan Lee's more success­ful brainchildren, such as Spider-Man ar the X-Nation," the technical aspects of "The Merchant of Venice" are impressive, though the content of the work itself is often deplorable. 
"The Merchant of Venice" has under­gone various incarnations, most recently a film version starring Al Pacino, Jeremy Irons and Joseph Fiennes. 
The Actors From the London Stage's performance this weekend ties in with the annual Spring ArtsFest. If the troupe 's previous performances are any indica­tor, their rendition of "The Merchant of Venice" should be an excellent addition to the festival. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

Men, the common thread here is that all of these superheroes are chronic under­achievers in terms of fan reaction. 
The Marvel animation team has done a splendid job here, as the characters are all very well rendered. Overall, the film has a very polished aesthetic. Unfortunately, the film also features dia­logue clunkier than Iron Man 's tin suit and the general interaction between its characters is pained at best. Like Captain America battling aliens, the film does its best when it stays on the move. When it stops between action scenes to attempt an appeal to emotion, it falls flat on its face. 
The plot of the movie is also chock-full of obscure references that only the most ardent of comic-book fans will appreci­ate, such as a cameo appearance by Bucky (Captain America 's sidekick of antiquity) and a reference to Giant Man's previous status as Ant-Man. In addition, the film's penchant for the bizarre -for example, when we are first introduced to Thor, he is moonlighting as an envi­ronmental activist trying to "save the whales" -renders the entire experience somewhat an exercise in one 's ability to suspend disbelief, even for a superhero movie. 
Despite its flaws, "Ultimate Avengers: The Movie" is still a fun, if mindless, watch. The film may not move anyone to don spandex and become a caped cru­sader, but it may be enough to make col­lege students wax nostalgic about child­hood Saturday mornings spent glued to their television screens. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1 @nd.edu 


.-------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 


CENE

Friday, February 24, 2006 page 13 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
Allen's best charms with wit 

courtesy Woody Allen and Diane Keaton each recleved an Oscar nomination for their portrayal of a couple with complicated Issues In the 1977 film, "Annie Hall." 
basically plays himself' (as he often 

By BRIAN DOXTADER 
does), his witty script and the surpris­Assiswnt Scene Editor 
ingly lilmic direction -for which Allen also won the Oscar -keep the film as "Annie llall" is probably writer-direc­fresh today as it was three decades ago. tor Woody Alltm's bnst film and -con­The deterioration and ultimate demise sidnring thn ovnrall quality or the prolilic of' Singer and Hall's relationship is nei­comndian 's output-that says a lot. thor mawkish nor overly sentimental. 
As funny and insightful as anything Most of this is due to the absolutely bril­mmrnittnd to eelluloid. the film explores liant seript, which is as witty as the thn diffnrnnens bntwnen sexes and the Marx Bros. and as clever as a Wilder trials and tribulations or a relationship. comedy. "Annin llall" was Allnn's biggest critical "Annie llall" is filled with dassic and stH~rnss and one of enduring moments his biggest commer--in particular, a cial suet~essns, cata­Annie Hall seene in which Hall pulting the eomedi­and Singer stumble an to stardom. through their first 
Though he may meeting (which con­havn rnadn subse­trasts what the
Original Release: 1977 

qtwnt f"ilms almost characters say with
Director: Woody Allen 

as good as "Annie what they actually
Writers: Woody Allen and Marshall

llall," hn would think) and a scene in
Brickman 

rHwt~r again makn a which Annie's spirit
Starring: Woody Allen, Diane Keaton, 

film as ardwtypal ·leaves her body and
Tony Roberts, Shelley Duvall and Paul

and as relltH~tivn of talks to Alvy during
Simon 

its nra. Liko many sex. The tilm is filled 
Distinguished Awards: Best Actress 

grt~at pieturns, with funny touches
Oscar (Diane Keaton), Best Director 

"Annie llall" stands throughout its rela­
Oscar (Woody Allen) and Best Picture 

both f"irmly within tively brief 93 min-
Oscar (Charles H. Joffe) 

its timn and yet still utes. nutnagns to somn-In every way, how transennd thosn same origins. "Annie Hall" is a superior film -its act­
Thn small, low-budget f"ilm won a ing, directing and writing aspects are all boatload of awards, including the New impressive. Allen, himself' a great York Film Critics Circle Award and the cinephile, takes advantage of the medi­1977 Bnst Pieturn Academy Award, um, using subtle (and some not-so-sub­lwating out another small, low-budget tle) cinematic trieks to weave his story. film called "Star Wars." It will be Voice-over narration, direct addresses scrnennd this wnnknnd in the Browning and odd cuts keep the film from feeling Cinnma of the Centnr for too "stagy" and numerous tho Performing Arts (I>PAC) cinematic references ­as part of' tlw Spring Arts Though Allen particularly, a great scene Fnst. basically plays involving a snobbish critic 
"Arlllin llall" follows Alvy and the films of' Federico
himself, his witty

Singnr (/\linn), a t:omedian Fellini -are scattered
script and the

who hnconws involved in a throughout. rolationship with the folk surprisingly filmic Allen, whose latest film singnr Annie I tall (played a "Mateh Point" opened last
direction keep the 

wondnrfully nffnrvescnnt year to critical acclaim and
film as fresh today

Diann Keaton. who won an a Best Original Screenplay Oscar for her role in the as it was three nod, is still an active writer f"ilm). It nxamirws their and direetor. "Annie Hall"
decades ago.

rolationship with all the was his tlrst real master­trrH:nrtainty, anxiety and piece, though he would fol­problems that eome with it. low it up with several other classic films, 
Along the way, both Singer and llall including 1979's "Manhattan," 1986's work on their eareers, with llall finally "Hannah and Her Sisters" and 1989's getting a big break with manager Tony "Crimes and Misdemeanors." Laeoy (singer-songwriter Paul Simon). Yet "Annie Hall" remains Allen's finest Unable to put up with /\Ivy's neuroses, film and will likely continue to hold that Annie eventually leaves him for Tony, position. Its insights are bold and funny, whieh forees Tony to reexamine some but ring out with the kind of truth that aspeets of his life -even as he pursues makes it universal and enduring. her to California. 
The film is funny because it's so biting­Contact Brian Doxtader at ly insightful and true. Though Allen bdoxtade@nd.edu 
NOTRE DAME'S 


-
... 
Friday, February 24, 2006

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Villanova holds on to beat Cincinnati, 74-7~ 
Hofstra defeats No. 25 George Mason to tie Duke for second longest home win streak in the nation at 19 games 
Associated Press since the opening minutes, 72­
70. Foye's free throws tied it 
CINCINNATI -Pick. Pass. with 53.9 seconds left, and Layup. Villanova's winning bas­Downey was called for a charge ket came just that easy. on Shane Clark. 
Nothing else did. On an inbounds play under 
Randy Foye had 25 points and the basket, Cunningham broke Dante Cunningham scored off free and made an uncontested an inbounds play with 3.2 sec­layup from the right side for onds left, leading No. 2 only his second basket of the Villanova to its 11th straight game. win Thursday night, 74-72 over "That's a play we run all the Cincinnati. time," said Foye, who added a 
The Wildcats (22-2, 12-1) career-high 14 rebounds. "We wasted a 12-point lead down have plays for 7 seconds left the stretch before pulling out a and plays for 4 seconds left. We win that kept them in control of just ran the play, and they left the Big East and gave them a Dante wide open." taste of what comes next. He came off a pick and had no 

-Playing with a No. 2 ranking one guarding him. for the first time in 10 years, "It was a simple screen and Villanova also extended a few we handled it poorly," interim notable streaks. The Wildcats coach Andy Kennedy said. "All matched the best start in school five guys mishandled it and, as history -they also did it in a result, we gave up a layup." 1937-38 -and set a school Hicks' 3-pointer at the buzzer record with their 11th straight was too hard. He finished with win in the Big East. 21 points. Allan Ray added 19 "Teams play at another level points for Villanova. against us, and we're learning For most of the game, it didn't to handle that," coach Jay figure to be so close. At the out­Wright said. set, the Bearcats struggled They had to fight off the under the pressure -some temptation to look past this one. self-imposed, most of it from The Wildcats go to Connecticut Villanova's energetic, four­on Sunday for a rematch with guard lineup. Cincinnati made the third-ranked Huskies, the only three baskets in the first team they beat on Feb. 13 to 12 minutes, going 3-for-17 from take control of the Big East. the field while Villanova pulled Their rematch shapes up as a ahead by 11 points. the way back. road. This one was by two more Only Lewis and Butler were game to decide the regular-sea­Foye and Ray had 13 apiece With the Bearcats' makeshift points than the other three above 10 on Thursday. son title, and the Wildcats know in the first half, which ended lineup staying close in the sec­combined. what to expect. with Villanova up 40-34. ond half, fans stood and Hofstra used an impressive Washington 75, Stanford 57 "Cincinnati plays as hard as Cincinnati started taking cheered "Hire Andy!" during a first half to take a 41-33 lead. SEATTLE -Forward Mike any team in the Big East, and advantage of Villanova's second-half timeout. Kennedy The Pride shot 54.8 percent Jensen made six 3-pointers and this environment is as difficult defense by hitting pull-up has held the Bearcats together (17 -for-31) in the half and that scored a career-high 18 points, as any in the Big East," Wright jumpers in the second half. throughout a chaotic season was against the league's best leading No. 17 Washington past said. "We're going to see the Muhammad's floater cut it to that started with Bob Huggins' field-goal percentage defense. Stanford on Thursday night to same thing Sunday. It's like we 40-36 at the outset. ouster in August. The Patriots entered allowing keep its hopes alive for a Pac­set this up for perfect prepara­Ray's fall-away 3-pointer -opponents to shoot 37.8 per­10 regular season title. tion." his back hit the floor as the ball Hofstra 77, George Mason 66 cent, sixth-best in the country. The Huskies (21-5, 10-5) On the other side, this one met the net -blunted the HEMPSTEAD, N.Y.-Loren Even though their shooting remained one game back of 
meant a lot to Cincinnati (18-comeback and set up a back­Stokes scored 26 points and cooled off, the Pride still led 59-California and UCLA in the Pac­10, 7-7), which went into a and-forth pace that held until Hofstra extended its home win­51 with 10:38 left on a basket 1 0 and host the Golden Bears in nosedive after forward Armein midway through the half. ning streak to 19 games with a by Adrian Uter. their final home game on Kirkland tore a knee ligament Foye made a three-point play victory over George Mason (No. The Patriots went on a 7-2 Sunday night. on Jan. 9. Four wins in the last and a 17-foot jumper that 25 ESPN~SA Today; unranked run capped by a 3-pointer by Brandon Roy continued his six games put the Bearcats back helped Villanova pull ahead 66-AP) on Thursday night. Folarin Campbell with 7:36 left. outstanding play of late with 23 in the running for an NCAA 54 midway through the half. The Pride (21-5, 13-4 Colonial It was the first of three times points, six rebounds and seven tournament berth. Forward James White, Athletic Association) tied No. 1 George Mason would get within assists. The back-to-hack con­
A victory over Villanova -the Cincinnati's top scorer and Duke for the second-longest three points. ference player of the week highest-ranked opponent to defender, picked up his fourth home streak in the nation The first two times, Stokes scored at least 20 points for the play in Cincinnati's 17 -year-old foul on Foye's three-point play, behind only No. 5 Gonzaga, scored to restore the lead to eighth straight game. arena -would have under­leaving the Bearcats in deep which has won 36 straight at five, and the third time it was a Roy was efficient, making 7­scored their worthiness. trouble. home. drive by Antoine Agudio that of-13 shots and was 8-for-8 on 
With a late 16-4 run led by Down, but not yet out. Hofstra's starters all scored in made it 67-62 with 3:02 left. free throws. Jamaal Williams power forward Eric Hicks, the Hicks' three-point play double figures and accounted That basket started Hofstra's added 10 points off the bench Bearcats showed they had sparked an 11-0 run that cut it for all the points for the Pride game-closing 12-4 run that the for Washington, which won its enough to keep up, not quite to 68-67. Moore's 3-pointer as they won for the ninth time Pride capped by going 6-for-8 fifth straight. enough to pull it out. from the right corner made it a in 10 games. The win clinched a from the free throw line over The loss dealt a serious blow 
"Either they're overrated or one-point game with 4:07 left. first-round bye for Hofstra in the final 1:06. to Stanford's hopes of making a we're underrated, one of the Both teams lost key players to the CAA tournament. Aurimas Kieza had 17 points 12th straight appearance in the two," Cincinnati point guard fouls -Cincinnati's White and Jai Lewis had 23 points for for Hofstra, while Uter and NCAA tournament. The Devan Downey said. 6-foot-8 forward Will Sheridan, the Patriots (21-6, 14-3), who Agudio each had 12 and Carlos Cardinal (13-11, 9-6) lost for 
Hicks, playing on two the only big man in Villanova's had an eight-game winning Rivera added 10. the fourth time in their last five sprained ankles, made a pair of lineup. With Sheridan gone, streak snapped. George Mason Lamar Butler had 14 points games and have beat just one free throws and a putback that Hicks asserted himself and has won 20 of its last 24, with for the Patriots, whose starters ranked opponent this season ­gave Cincinnati its first lead brought the Bearcats the rest of all the losses coming on the all average in double figures. Washington on Jan. 29. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

1-7 bdrm. homes starting@  A 4 bdrm, 2bth house near campus.  123 ND Ave. 3-bdrm,1.5 bath. Call  Kaplan: summer office help needed  
FOR RENT  $200/student, 24-hr.maint.,free pool tables, 1st mo.free. Call574-250­ All appliances included. Pets wei­come. $1350. Call220-8666.  574-229-0149.  WANTED  $7.00/hour 272-4135  
7653 or visit bluegoldrentals.com  
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED­ 2-3-4 BEDROOMS. Immediate &  .FOR SALE  BE ON THE FIELD WITH THE....  PERSONAL  
ROOM HOMES  3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web  2006-07. Security,phone included.  IRISH GUARD  
MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408  site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary  315-3215. ndstudentrentals.com  A 4 bdrm, 2bth newly remodeled  We need students who are:  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
574-993-2208 or grooms@ ourweb­ house near campus.  Returning to ND for Fall 06. A min.  Don not go it alone.!! you or some- 
Area houses and apartments for  spot. net  Rent furnished house-walk ND. 3  $90,000.  of 6ft. 2 in. in height. In good aca­ one you love needs confidential  
....  rent. Log onto  students $300, 4-$275 + utilities.  Call 220-8666.  demic standing. Info session on  support or assistance .  
MichianaRentals.com. Call 574­ COLLEGE PARK CONDOM INI­ ADT. 574-309-3105.  Tues., Feb. 28, at 8:30 pm in  please call  
993-RENT (7368)  UMS AVAILABLE FOR 06-07  2002 Dodge Neon 4D. 53,700 mi.  Montgomery Aud. across from  Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC,  
SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED­ 515 St.Joe: 7 bdrm,area of student  Good cond. $6,500. Call Carlos  Starbucks in LaFortune.  at 1-7819.  
Stop overpaying for rent. Visit  ROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY. 235­ rentals, $1200/mo.  574-271-2275 or  If you cannot attend the meeting,  For more information, see our bi- 
BlueGoldrentals.com  7234 FOR MORE DETAIL.  57 4,250-7653  cmendoz1 @nd.edu  call631-3336.  weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  






OUND THE NATION 
FriJay, February 24, 2006 
NCAA Men's Basketball RPI Rankings 
team  record  previous  
1  Duke  25·1  1  
2  Villanova  21·2  2  
3  Connecticut  23·2  4  
4  Tennessee  19·4  3  
5  Memphis  24·2  5  
6  Pittsburgh  20·2  6  
7  Ohio St.  19·4  8  
8  Michigan St.  19·7  10  
9  Gonzaga  23·3  12  
10  Iowa  20·7  9  
11  Texas  22·4  7  
12  Illinois  22·4  13  
13  Wisconsin  18·7  16  
14  UCLA  20·6  11  
15  Oklahoma  18·6  14  
16  LSU  18·7  15  
17  Arizona  16·10  20  
18  North Carolina St.  21·5  22  
19  North Carolina  17·6  23  
20  George Mason  21·5  27  
21  Marquette  18·8  35  
22  Florida  22·4  18  
23  UNI  22·6  17  
24  Wichita State  21·7  21  
25  Missouri St.  18·7  25  

NCAA Women's Basketball RPI Rankings 
team record preZJious 

1 Tennessee 24·3 1 2 North Carolina 25-1 5 3 Duke 24-1 4 4 Connecticut 24·3 2 5 LSU 23-2 3 6 Oklahoma 23-4 6 7 Maryland 24·3 7 8 Ohio St. 23·2 9 9 Rutgers 21·3 8 10 Baylor 19-5 12 11 Arizona St. 22·5 11 12 North Carolina St. 16·10 10 13 DePaul 22·5 15 14 Virginia Tech 18·7 16 15 Georgia 18-7 18 16 Brigham Young 20-3 13 17 Old Dominion 16-7 24 18 Michigan St. 20·8 20 19 Stanford 19·6 14 20 Kentucky 19·6 17 21 St. John's (N.Y.) 19-6 23 22 Boston College 19-8 19 23 Western Ky. 20·5 25 24 New Mexico 18-7 22 25 Utah 19·5 26 
Women's NCAA Basketball Big East Conference 
winning /('(WI con}: pet. otwrall 
Rutgers 14-0 1.000 22-3 Connecticut 13-1 .929 25·3 DePaul 9·5 .643 22-5 St. John's 9-5 .643 19-6 Pittsburgh 9·5 .643 18·7 Louisville 8-6 .571 17-8 Marquette 8-6 .571 17·8 Cincinnati 7-7 .500 17-8 USF 7-7 .500 17-10 Villanova 6-7 .462 15-9 NOTRE DAME 6-8 .429 15-10 West Virginia 4-10 .286 12-13 Seton Hall 3-10 .231 6·18 Georgetown 3-11 .214 10-15 Providence 3-11 .214 8·11 Syracuse 2·12 .143 9·16 
around the dial 
NBA Nets at Knicks 8 p.m., ESPN Lakers at Clippers 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
PGA TOUR WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship, 2 p.m., ESPN Chrysler Classic, 6 p.m., USA 
Corv\PILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
PGA 


Associated Press Ultimately, that's all that it was a good day or a bad with six of' tlw top eight 
matters in this most fickle day, your opponnnt is right sneds still alive f'or thP 
C/\HLSB/\1>, Calif'. -goff tournament. which in front ofyou." $1.3 million payoff' Sunday. Tiger Woods didn't remove was rndueed to 16 players /\llnnby, the first playnr It's the first time in thn his cap qnd shako hands after another wild day of to sweep Australia's three eight-year history of' this on the 1Oth green dramatic shots and unlike­majors, stayed in front of tournanwnt that. so many Thursday. ly rallies. him all day. /\II square top s1wds advanrnd 
This time, lw was lucky Woods knew that his 9-coming to the last hole, it. through two rounds. to bl) loading. and-H vietory in the open­turned into a battle of :~­Vijay Singh is among 
One day af'tnr he sha.t­ing round against Stnphen woods from 24(1 yards t lw 111 , a m in or surp r is n tnred tho tournamnnt Amos meant nothing when away. Woods went left, even as t.hn No. 2 sPml. lin rncord f'or the shortest he tend ofl' against /\111m by. away from the llag, into a had never advan('.ed match. Woods had to go That much was clnar to bunker. /\llenby went beyond tlw se1~ond round the distance against everyone else when he right. short-siding himsPif in snvnn previous Hobert /\lienby, sq unaki ng bogeynd threw of t.Jw l'irst and catching a bad lie in attempts, ovnreorning a by with a 7 -foot birdie putt live holes. trampled rough. slow start to beat Miguel on thn I Hth hole to "That's tho beauty of "/\t least I made it inter­Angel .Jinwrwz. advance into the third match play," Woods said. esting," he said. Third-sn1Hfed Hntinf' round of' the Match Play "Start again. What you did Even morn interesting is (;oosnn also won. but not. Championship. ynstPrday is no conse­how the Acennture Match bnf'orn Bnn Crann made a 
''I'm advaneing," Woods quence for what you're Play Championship was hoiP-in-one on tlw l hth said. "That's a good thing." going to do today. Whether shaping up after two days, hole to make him swnat. 
IN BRIEF 

Soriano not yet ready to Canada laments debacle in Autistic teen scores 20 
play outfield for Nationals Olympic hockey games points in high school game 
ViEH/\, Fla. -i\lfonso Soriano still TUHIN, Italy -/\II that talent. /\11 GHEECE, N.Y. -.Jason Mel\lwain isn't ready to commit to playing out­that money. had dmw everything he was asked linld for the Washington Nationals, so /\II that nothingness. to do f'or the Grnecn Athena lligh a resolution will have to wait until Canada, the land that invented School basketball team -keep the artnr the World Baseball Classic. hockey but somehow can't seem to stats, run the clock, hand out wator 
A two-hour meeting with tnam olli­win at it rogularly, sent what it bottles. eials Thursday failed to produen a thought was its best-ever Olympic That all changed last wonk f'or tho hmakthrough, and tho parties essen­men's team to Turin. team manager in thn f'inal homo tially agrnml to put oil' the problem. Oh, it made history for sure, but in game ol' the snason. Tho 17-year­
"We'vo bnon protty elnar about entirely thn wrong way. 0 Canada'? old senior, who is autistic and usu­bning undoar," general manager .Jim No, in those games the bottom linn ally sits on tho bnnch in a whito Bowden said. was: Hussia 2, Canada 0. shirt and black tie, put on a uni­
Soriano will b1~ allownd to work out Thn Canadians' third ~;1Utout loss form and nntored tlw gamn with his at second base with tlw Nationals for in four games assured them of a 1:~th team way ahead. thn first few days of spring training gold-loss Olympics in the last 14 Mel\lwain procnndPd to hit six 3­beeausn that is the position lw will Winter Camns. The defending gold point shots, linishnd with 20 points play for t.hn Dominican Hnpublic. medalists bngan returning to thoir and was ~~arrind oiT t.hn eourt on his Soriano reports to tho Dominican Nlll. tnams Thursday with only a toammatos' shoulders. tnam March :t nasty scar on captain Jon Sakie's "I PrHind my r.areer on tlw right 
"Let's not got ahead of ourselves," right cheek for show for nino mostly notn," lw told Tho /\ssodatNI Pross Nationals manager Frank Hobinson misorabln days in Italy. by phonn Thursday. "I was rnally said. "Is lw going to play lol't finld'? /\!most no goals. No medals. /\nd, hotter than a pistol!" Who knows'? Those dndsions will bn at. least. for now, no irnmedial.n In nH~nnt days, Met•:lwain's phone made bnf'ore we leave Florida." answers. has hardly stopped ringing. 
-
---------------------------. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, February 24, 2006 
ND SOFTBALL 


Team looks to rebound in the Sunshine State 
After falling to 2-3 in Las Vegas, a rejuvenated Irish squad travels to Miami for games against FlU and Memphis 
By DAN MURPHY Sporrs Wrirer 
The Irish head to Florida today to begin play in another weekend match up. Notre Dame will face off against the University of Buffalo at 2 p.m. The team also has a game slat­

-
ed with Memphis and two against the host squad, Florida International. 
After starting a disappoint­ing 2-3, the Irish will attempt to rebound at the Adidas/Golden Panther Tournament with two games on both Friday and Saturday to determine their seed for 


Sunday's elimination games. 
"We now know exactly what we need to improve on in order to be in Oklahoma in June. We have a lot to improve but are by no means deflated," said senior pitcher Heather Booth about Notre Dame's goal of making the NCAA tourna­ment in Tulsa, Okla. 
Head coach Deanna Gumpf will once again be unable to join her team on the road. Gumpf gave birth to her sec­ond child on Wednesday morn­ing. The coach hopes to be back with her team when they return home to play over spring break. Until then, the team will be under the direc­tion of assistant coaches Kris Ganeff and Lizzie Lemire this weekend. 
The team's first opponent, Buffalo, has yet to play this season and will only have one morning game under its belt when it faces off against the Irish on Friday afternoon. The Irish hope they will be able to use the experience gained from last weekend's trip to Las 
Vegas in order to pull their 19-0 season-opening win 
record even with a victory over against Grambling State Feb. 
the Bulls. 11. 
Later in the day, Notre Dame The fourth team joining will play its first of at least two Notre Dame in Memphis will contests with the Golden be Big East foe St. John's. Panthers of Florida Although there are no games "'nternational. currently sched­The Panthers (4-uled between 
6) started off slow "We have a lot to the two teams, this season, losing · b b it's possible the 
five of their first zmprove ut are Y Irish will see six. However, they no means their first con­have bounced deflated.'' ference action in back, winning bracket play on three in the Sunday.
Heather Booth 
Dunkin' Donuts The team 
Classic last week. Irish pitcher hopes to find the 
The team has proper chem-
momentum on its istry between 
side as its last win was a their experienced upperclass­
thrilling come-from-behind men and talented freshmen 
victory in extra innings against such as pitcher Brittney 
Long Island. Bargar and Linda Kohen, who 
Notre Dame continues the leads the team with three 
weekend with an early home runs this season. For 
Saturday game against the Notre Dame, the road to 
high-powered offense of Oklahoma starts this weekend 
Memphis. The Lady Tigers in Miami. 
have earned a 3-1 record by 
outscoring their opponents by Contact Dan Murphy at 
a total of 41-13 -including a dmurphy6@nd.edu 
FENCING 


Irish to host Midwest Fencing Conference Championship 
ND welcomes the nation's best teams to the JACC as the Irish attempt to win title for the first time since 2002 
By JACK THORNTON Sports Wrirer 
Notre Dame will host the Midwest Fencing Conference Championship (MFCC) this Saturday and Sunday at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse, and the Irish will be looking to win the event for the first time in four years. 
Sixteen teams will compete, including women's No. 6 Northwestern, Ohio State (men's No. 1, women's No. 10) and regional powerhouse Wayne State. 
Notre Dame has not won the event since 2002, even though it has always been held at the Joyce Center. 
"It's funny," Irish senior Jack Goetz said. "We used to win it every year, through most of the '90s and early 2000s, and 2003 was the first time we lost in like a decade." 
The Irish won the national championship in 2003, so losing the MFCC that year was not exactly a death blow. 
"I feel like we've been strug­gling to claim the title, but as far as an indicator as to whether we'll win the national champi­onship ... it's hard to say," Goetz said. 
The MFCC is more or iess a tune-up for the midwest region­al on March 4, though its name suggests otherwise. 
"It's not really important as far as winning the national champi­onship goes, but it is our last tournament before regionals," senior Craig Brede said. 
Irish sophomore Rachel Cota is focused on reclaiming the crown, despite the MFCC being Notre Dame's immediate con­cern. 
"I would say the women want the title of conference champi­ons back and we want to make Ohio State nervous about NCAAs," Cota said. 
The Ohio State men defeated Notre Dame at NYU earlier this year in the only contest between the two. The Buckeyes came to the Notre Dame Duals in late January, but did not compete against the Irish. 
"To have Ohio State there and to beat them, would be very big for us, and to carry that momen­tum into Regionals would be good as well as to qualify as many people for the NCAAs," Bedre said. 

The conference championship will also be the last home meet for the team's seniors. 
"I know in terms of getting to NCAAs it doesn't mean much, but still I get the feeling that people really want to win this because it's kinda like a home tournament and ... we want to show people that we can beat Ohio State and it means a lot to me," Goetz said. 
The Nore Dame men's main focus is Ohio State. But the Irish women will be focused on another midwestern opponent -Northwestern. 
"At the Northwern Duals in November, we swept them 9-0 and I think we can do that again," Cota said. 
"We lost the last time we fenced them, and let's just say l would not want . to be Northwestern this weekend." 
Despite Ohio State and Northwestern's presence, the tournament will be missing three of the biggest names in fencing. Wayne State's Marek Petraszek and Anna Garina will skip the event, as well as Notre Dame sophomore Marie! Zagunis. Zagunis is fresh off a World Cup victory in Dourdan, France last weekend and is competing in Budapest, Hungary. 
Goetz and Bedre are hoping for a solid showing from the stu­dents in Notre Dame's last home match of the season. 
"I think it does help to have some people come out and cheer. .. I know it means a lot for me to have my friends come out and cheer, so it does help a bit," Goetz said. 
Contact Jack Thornton at jthornt4@nd.edu 

Apply NoV# for Summer Study Abroad 
Quito, Ecuador Paris, France Dublin, Ireland 

Milan, Italy Pueblo, Mexico Toledo, Spain 
Applications Due March 1 

See www.nd.edu/-ois/SummerPrograms.htm for more information on programs A I online at www.nd.edu/-intlstudla I /a I .html 
Friday, February 24, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish face test in first game 
NO starts its season off in showdown with Penn State at Loftus 
By TIM DOUGHERTY SpomWritcr 
No. I 0 Notro Damn opens the snason this wonk<~nd by wel­coming No. II Penn State to thn Loftus Cnntnr Sunday at 1 pm. 
In tlw first tost of a 2006 
loadnd with high expectations, 
t.lw Irish an~ antsy to get start­
nd al'tnr eompnting against 
narh olhPr in prartieo. 
"You can look at it in nvnry­one's nyos," Irish eo-captain dnl"nnsnman 1>..1. Driscoll said. "Wn'rn road~ to bnat up on SOnWOIHJ nlse. 
Though thn ganw against the Nittany Lions offnrs nnw oppo­sition. thny are a familiar roe for thn Irish. Notre Dame has opnnnd up indoors against Pmm State thn last eight years, which Irish coach Kevin Corrigan says has benn by dnsign. Though South Bend and Statn Collngn, Pnnn., offer frigid lacrosse weather in Fnbruary, Corrigan says that both teams are the only in the country to have indoor fields with guaranteed availability this early in the s1mson. 
In that time span, Notre last year's Penn State film to a l>arne has taken six or eight minimum. lie said Thursday eorrtnsts against Penn State, was the team's l'irst exposure including a 14-6 victory in to the coach's limited presea­Statn Collnge last season when son scouting report on the tho Irish finishod 7-4 and nar­Nittany Lions. rowly missnd an invitation to "There's no film on them for thn NCAA Tournament. this year," said Driscoll, who 
As tho Irish start thoir run to led the team with six ground­nnd a rour-yoar tournament balls in last season's contest. drought, Corrigan looks at the "As long as lwei know our 200(, Penn State team apart game plan, which coach has l'rorn that or 2005. been drilling into our heads 
"Wn 1:nrtainly know some of this past week and a half, wo thoir pnrsonnol, but thnrn aro will be fine." a lot that we don't know," Tho most important off-sea­Corrigan said. "It's their first son developments for Corrigan gamn, too, and thnn~·s a lot was tlw lack thereof'. w1~·11 havn to lnarn about them '"The good news is that it 
oursnlvns." was a ~.retty u.ne~;;?tful pre­Sincn a Feb. I I doublnlwad­season. he s1ud. Ihero was e r a ga i 11 s t B u e k rud I a n d no drama to spoak of in the dnl'nnding national champion preseason and -knock on l>ukn. l>risroll said Corrigan wood -there have been no 
has had tho tnam eoncentrato injurins so far." on its own ganw -dovoting Though Corrigan said he was limn to hamnwr in fundamen­pleased with Notre Dame's 
tals in pra<:tirn and knoping ability to compote with No. 1 Duke in preseason scrimmages he knows the Nittany Lions also played well in a preseason scrimmage against No. 2 Johns Hopkins. 
As a senior leader on the team, Driscoll has taken a more active role in making sure the Irish are prepared to open the season -especially against the No. 11 team in the country -and he is excited for Sunday. 
"It's the first game and ~ver.yone's pumpe~,''.. he said. We re ready for this. 
Co-captain Drew Peters shares Driscoll's confidence, thanks to the Irish game plan the past two weeks. 
"We know we're going to play fundamentally sound," Poters said. "We know how we can play and that should take caro of it." 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 

WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Talented squad gets ready for tough year 
while Dickson's leadership

After training hard, 
and dextnrity help her to Irish will compete anchor the team through her superior goalkneping. 
on national stage A core of standout n1turnees, including one All­American and. three All-Big
By CHRIS WILLIAMS 
East award winners, along 
SportS Wri£er 
with the nation's best recruit­ing elass, has women's "J{isk everything, regret laerosso fans evnrywhore nothing." exdted. Tho Irish's intnns<~ That is the team motto for sehoduln includes night the Irish as they got ready to teams that finishnd the 2005 begin tho 2006 season. season ranknd No. 20 or bnt­Assistant coach Kateri ter including national cham­Linville said No. 18 Notre pion Northwestnrn, is a testa-Dame is opti-mnnt to Notre mistic for a Damn's f"irm breakout cam­bcdief that it is
"We're excited lo 
paign. an elite womnn's "Based on our gel Notre Dame lacrosse pro­
off-season train­back on the map as gram. ing, our team is While the loss­
a lacrosse
in very good os of' def'nnsivn shape." Linville powerhouse. " playnrs, Joss said. "Our stel­Mikula and lar matches Mary Veith Lindsay Shal'f'er against will eertainly bn
Irish attack 


Pennsylvania, George Mason and Georgetown are indica­tors that our hard work is paying off," 
Armed with a talented recruiting class and a core of experienced veterans, the Notre Dame women's lacrosse team is ready to erase bitter memories of last year's 3-12 campaign. 
"Winning the national championship is definitely our ultimate goal. as is ostab­lishing ourselves as a peren­nial powerhouse in the Big East,'' Linville said. 
Since last season, the Irish have upgraded thnir team in almost every aspect of' the game. 
Led by seniors Crysti Foote and Carol Dickson. Notro Dame hopes to erase tho bit­ter memories of a season gono awry. It also needs to compete favorably with somn of the nation's top women's lacrosse programs. 
Footo is a major force in the midfield and is a huge leader for the attack position. 
roll., a spectacu­

lar reeruiti ng class, ranked No. 1 by "lnsido Lacrosse Magazine," gives the Irish a much-needed boost in every facet of tho game. Freshmen midfielder Alicia Billings, midfieldnr Jane Stoeckert, attaek Mary Veith and blue-chip midfield­or Jill Byors are expected to be important parts in thn Irish's newly revamped ofTnnse. Erin Goodman givns Notre Dame dopth at tho goalie position. 
"We're excited to get Notre Dame back on tlw map as a lacross11 powerhouse," Veith said. "We're just going to do our part to establish a foun­dation for a dynasty." 
Irish !wad eoach Tracy Coyne has made the most of the orr-season, implenwnting rigorous practices and gruel­ing eonditioning sessions. Coyne's coaehing nxperien1:e of nine years at Notre Danw. along with her international prowess as a two-time Canadian women's la1:rossn head coaeh, make lwr among 
the  nation's  elite  NCAA  
womnn's  lacrosse  lwad  
coadws.  

Contact Chris Williams at cwilli II@nd.edu 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 24, 2006 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Buckeyes come to Eck for golden showdown 
A win against No. 11 Ohio State at home this weekend would likely give Notre Dame a berth in the top 25 
By KATE GALES A.sociate Sports Editor 

The Irish are hungry for a big win, and Ohio State's visit to the Eck Tennis Pavilion tonight presents a golden opportunity for an upset. 
No. 26 Notre-Dame will take on the Buckeyes, who are No. 11 in the ITA national team standings, this aftnrnoon at 4 
p.m. in their designated "Gold Game" and last home match until April. 
"We need a big win and this certainly would qualify as one,"lrish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "This would really help us get over the hump and feel like we're heading in the right direction." 
The Irish are on a five-match winning streak, including four wins over Big Ten opponents. 
The team stands at 7-4 on the season, with losses to Virginia, Illinois, Duke and UNC. 
"If you're going to try to play the best teams in the country, which we do, you have to make it work, so we had to play more matches early than I would have liked," Bayliss said. "But we certainly had our opportunities -we've had a chance to win every match we've played except one." 
The Irish are coming off a 5­2 win at Michigan on Feb. 18, giving them six days off-one of their longest breaks of the season. 
"It's long in the sense that we had probably been playing too much, but we had to play some of the teams we played at times that we could simply because of the different con­ference schedules," Bayliss said. 

Bayliss said the Buckeyes are traditionally one of the Big Ten's strongest teams. 
"We have lost consecutive 4­3 matches to Ohio State at least the last two years," Bayliss said. 
In 2004, the team lost with­out co-captain Luis Haddock playing at the Eck Tennis Pavilion, and lost again in Ohio in 2005. Both matches were decided in the final match on the courts. 
"We played a great match and just came up a little bit short," Bayliss said of the 2005 match up. 
The recent ascension of Ohio State in the national rankings means that this is an impor­tant match for improving Notre Dame's national recognition. The team is 9-0 in its best start since the 1988-89 season. 
"It's a great rivalry," Bayliss said. "I have the utmost regard for their coach, who does a terrific job with his players and they always play hard." 
Ohio State is 3-0 against teams ranked in the Top 20. The Irish are 0-4. 
The Buckeyes return five starter's from last year's team, which finished the season in the Top 25. Scott Green and Hoss Wilson are ranked No. 1 nationally in doubles. 
"They're significantly better than they were a year ago," Bayliss said. 
In fall tournament play, Sheeva Parbhu-No. 28 in the national singles rankings ­beat Devin Mullings at the ITA Midwest Championships. Millings had defeated Brett Helgeson earlier in the tourna­ment. 
Joining Parbhu in the most recent singles rankings are Stephen Bass at No. 17 and Helgeson, who debuted at No. 60. 
Notes: 
+ Bayliss said the team will be giving away a PlayStation 2 and a football autographed by Charlie Weis at their match at 4 p.m. 
"I think the players will be fired up no matter what," Bayliss said. "It's a great rival­ry, there's a lot of mutual respect and I don't think it would be hard to get up for Ohio State playing in Alaska. But to have it be the Gold Game with, hopefully, an enthusiastic crowd will make a big difference." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 



Irish seek revenge against BYU, Wisconsin this vveekend 
One year after then-No. 7 Notre Dame suffered two upset losses, the team will get a chance to redeem itself 
By DAN TAPETILLO Sports Writer  fidence that goes along with being undefeated seven matches into the season.  from the Irish being the only program to have three nation­ally-ranked doubles teams.  the top-50 is the No. 49 duo of seniors Kiki Stastny and cap­tain Lauren Connelly.  2 is Christian Thompson who is currently No. 32, a 12-posi­tion jump from last week's  
"We  have  worked  really  No.  2 duo of sophomores  "They  both  have  great  rankings.  Thompson  has  
Last season,  No.  7 Notre  hard," freshman  Catrina  and  instincts around the net and  defeated several ranked play- 
Dame suffered losses to both  Kelcy Tefft said.  Christian  compliment  ers  this  spring,  
BYU and Wisconsin. But the Irish are out for redemption this weekend as the No. 20 Cougars and No. 51 Badgers visit the Eck Tennis Pavilion with matches at 11 a.m. Saturday (BYU) and 11 a.m. Sunday (Wisconsin). "Last season we were  "But we are also don't want to get overconfident." Six of the victo­ries have come over top-30 teams, including then-No. 9 North Carolina  "We are taking every match seriously and hoping it'll help us to keep on winning.  Thompson lead the Irish. The former No. 1 pa1rmg have defeated five teams in the current top 10, including No. 1 duo Alice  each other perfectly," Christian Thompson said. In addition, to its talent in doubles, the team has  'Tm looking forward to how well we do for the rest of the season. " Kelcy Tefft Irish freshman  including No. 56 Caitlin Collins from North Carolina. Following Thompson in the singles lineup are Buck, Stastny, Tefft and fresh- 
ranked higher and lost," sen­ior Kelly Nelson said. "So now we are taking every match  and then-No. 9 Harvard. "Not only have  Kelly Nelson Irish senior  Barnes and Anne Yelsey of Stanford last  also proven its strength in singles this season.  man Katie Potts. Despite the suc­cess the Irish have found this  
seriously [despite  a  team's  we  beaten  top  fall.  No.  27 Catrina Thompson  season, the team is aware of  
ranking] and hoping it'll help  10-teams, but we  Following the  leads the team with 16 wins,  the challenges that lay ahead.  
us to keep on winning."  have also played well every  Thompsons is the No. 29 team  including last weekend's victo­ ''I'm excited for what we  
One advantage the Irish did­ match," Tefft said."  of sophomore Brook Buck and  ry over Harvard's Eva Wang.  have done, but I'm looking for­ 
n't have last season is the con- Part of this success stems  Tefft. The third doubles duo in  Following Thompson at No.  ward to how well  we  do for  

CAVANA 

fllai~itrff ~Koney.. !Jelhtuwty, 24tli wul~tu6 5 pm -1 atn fo4 3lann.aft J!.a!JO-Jttune and5Uend6 !ilaibro.oi'U 
RAFFL.ES + EN1"ERTAINMENT + DANCING 

PRJZES + FREE FOOD 
(l ~~--Sceciat 5/ia.u.fi.c Sa..: 

ane~pt €)?\ntlri:!,VJ(a~-f
:l"':.~ ;\ :: : . 
the rest of the season," Tefft said. "But we are excited to play teams like BYU because they always play well." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 



friday, Pebruary 24, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 


Analysis 
continued from page 24 
ly. Seton llall (7-6), Syracuse ( 7 -(J ) a n d C i n c i n n at i ( 7 -7 ) eould slidn in a worst-ease scenario, hut thnir sdwdules arn not daunting nnough to nneouragn possible fallout. 
So that lnavns thn Big East with six tnams nnnpeting for its final thnw spots. 
South Florida cannot qualify, being 0-13 with just three n~maining ganws. 
But l.ouisvilln, l'rovidnneo, St. .John's, Hutgnrs, Notro Dame and I>PI'aul all have fea­sibln ehatH~es of qualifying for t.lw confPrence tournanwnt at Madison Squan~ Carden. 
"I don't know if tlwrn's ever bonn a lnagun wlwrn so mueh attention has hnnn paid I to I tlw bottom seven Itnams I the last week of the snason," Irish coach Mike Brny said Monday. 
Thnrn hasn't. llnre's the attention: 
In control .•. sort of 
Notre Damn rweds wins, and that's up to thnm. It doesn't gnt mueh simplnr. Tho Irish are in control of their own, hanging dnstiny. 

Beco1ne a JJart a 
Notre Dame Tradition! 
To Be Eligible You M1-1St Be . ... Returning to Notre Da1ne for Fall 2006 season
• 
A tninin"lum of 6, 2H in height
• 
In good academic standing
• 
INTERESTED? 
Attend the Information Session or call 631-3336 
Tuesday, February 28, 2006 8:30p.m. 
Jlfo1ttgo~nery Auditoriu1n, LaFortu 
(Across fron1 Starbucks) 


They arn No. 14 in the Big East heading into Saturday's home game against Marquette. Tho current seed would make them ineligible for the confer­nnee tournament if the regular season ended today. 
But it doosn't, and if Notre Dame (4-9) can win at least two of its final three regular season ganws, it could be in good shape. 
The magic number is snven. Most liknly, any tnam that fin­ishns with seven or more wins will makn the tournament. The Irish play Marquette (home) Saturday, Providence (away) Wndnnsday and DePaul (home) on March 4. To reach the magic number, the Irish would havn to win out. 
But winning only two still could slidn Notrn Dame past competing teams with brutal remaining schedules. 
Louisville and Providence sit ahead of Notre Dame at No. 10 and I I. Both tnams are 5-8 in the conference with th roo games to go, and the Cardinals win a tinbrnaker with the Friars beeauso they bmtt tlwm, 72-67, on Jan. 2. But each toam has arguably its most dil'l'icult sehedule strntch remaining. 
l.ouisvilln must face Wnst 
Virginia, Marquette and Connecticut to elose its inau­gural Big East season. Providence must go on the road at Pittsburgh and Marquette and sandwich a home game with Notre Dame. 
And that's only the begin­ning. Though the Cardinals and Friars arn ahead of Notrn Dame and could win their big gamns to remain there, Hutgers has a comparable record (5-9) and a more prom­ising future. 
The Scarlet Knights (No. 13 Big East) face winless South Florida on Sunday and thnn finish their rngular season against St. John's March 5. The .Johnnies are one spot ahead of Hutgers by tiebreaknr becausn of a 54-51 victory on Feb. 15, but tho noxt meeting or these two teams eould bump one in and eliminate the other. 
Hutgers has tho edge there, since St. John's also has a date with Villanova Wednesday. 
And that leaves DePaul, which is 3-10 with remaining gamos against Seton Ilall (Saturday), Syracuse (Thursday) and Notre Damo (March 4). With that schedule, tho only way the Blue Demons could catch the Irish is by beating thnm head-to-head, 

which they already did onee, 73-67, on Jan. 7. But DePaul is in trouble with 
· fewer wins than Notre Dame and a tough schedule. Louisville is playing well but running smack into a brick wall of' opponents at the worst possible time. And St. John's 
and  Providence  both  have  
daunting  tasks  in  thnir  
remaining games.  

That leaves Hutgers and Notre Dame. The first has the easiest upcoming games of all seven teams and five wins. The second has four wins but less imposing games ahead. 
So does that mean since 
* HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
You can advance the Catholic Mission ofHoly Cross! 
HALL DIRECTORS NEEDED 2006-2007 HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
GRAD STUDENTS LAW STUDENTS 
Undergraduates are also encouraged to inquire about RA vacancies 
CONTACT RESLIFE@HCC-ND.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Notrn Dame has won thrtw of' its last four. nearly defoatnd Connncticut and has a bettor remaining seheduln, that tlw Irish will makn the Big East tournament? 
No, but it does mean they have complete control of' their own dnstiny. Four and l'ivo wins won't get them in. Six could. Seven would. 
"This is gonna get in tornst­ing," Brey said Monday of tho furious race for 10 through 12. 
There's no doubt about it. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
SENIOR NIGHT 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 24, 2006 
Notre Dame forward Brock Sheahan skates up the ice in a 3-2 win over Ferris State Feb. 10. The Irish play Alaska-Fairbanks this weekend. 
I 

seven games, with a win over No. 1 Miami and a sweep of Bowling Green. 
Forwards Kyle Greentree and Curtis Fraser will provid(~ trouble for the Irish on defense with their scoring touch and size. 
"They're a tough team to play against and it's going to be a challenge for us to score goal," Jackson said. "It's going to be a battle of the wills, and it's going to be a battle of patienee." 
The Irish will honor their sen­iors and their parents in a pre­game ceremony before Saturday night's 7:05 p.m. game at the Joyce Center. The class has com­piled a 54-64-20 record in their three-plus seasons wearing a Notre Dame sweater. 
"They're all great kids and I would like to see them go out on a positive note," Jackson said. ''I'd like to see them have the opportunity to feel good about themselves when they leave here. Hegardless of how things pan out over the next couple of weeks, three weeks, four weeks whatever, I just want it to be a positive finish to their careers." 
Notes: 

+The Hobey Baker award, given to college hockey's most valuable player by a combination of fan votes and the Hobey Baker selection committee, is currently in the preliminary process of accepting fan votes. One hundred ninety-three players from around Division I were selected to the preliminary fan ballot on Jan. 16. No Irish players were nominated for selection. In order for a play­er to reach this ballot the player must receive 25 fan nomina­tions on www.hobeybaker.com. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at 
kcassily@nd.edu 
pressure heading into the next-to-last regular season
Bearcats 

game. continued from page 24 "Well, I think we've felt like we have to t1nish strong. elevate its game. We want to win all our 
"I think we've got to go games, so I don't think into every game and be there's any less pressure," aggressive because every­McGraw said. "But I think 
body's fight­ing at this point," she 

"/think we've felt like 
said. 

we have to finish
The Irish will be led by strong. We want to win senior All­
all our games, so I don't 
American 

think there's any less
Megan Duffy, who currently pressure. averages team highs in 
Muffet McGraw
points and 

Irish head coach 
assists with 15.6 and 4.2, respectively. 

S h e I I y Bellman, who was co-Big "There's definitely a 
East player of feeling ofconfidence,
the week last 

knowing we played
week, will help lead the really well in the 
Beareat second half/against
offense on 

West Virginia}. " 
Wednesday. "We'rogoing to look at a Muffet McGraw couple of dif­Irish head coach 
ferent things again at prac­


tice [Friday[ and see what body's really gotta elevate looks best [to shut her their game." down[." McGraw said. 
Heading into Saturday's game, Duffy and the Irish Contact Eric Retter at certainly don't feel any less eretter@nd.edu 
tickets $5 at 
tlw door or l.af(H·tu Box ()ffice 
•S H;ored. tlw :\.-\ 
:ate\\~DELiC 8UNDr-• 
~cs . ~cr fravel back to the 60~s and 70's with 
Me.,~s 
Lacrosse
First 200 fatts 

receive tie-dyed vs. Pet1t1 State Irish Lacrosse t-shirts ~~m. m~­~~ 
Free Adt~tissiot1 

the league's gonna get a lot of teams into the tournament plus tho N I T , " McGraw s a i d . "There's a lot of post­season hopes for everybody, so every­there's defi­nitely a feel­ing of confi­dence, knowing we played really well in the second half [against W e s t Virginia]." 
The Irish, like every team in the conference, are hoping a 
Against Pittsburgh on Wednesday, Duffy shot 5-9 from 3-point range on her way to scoring 22 points. 
Surging freshman guard 
strong finish will improve their chances for postseason opportunities. 
"I think everybody's gonna look at the postseason now, 

Nanooks 
continued from page 24 
opening round home ice in the 12-team league. 
''I'm trying to make sure that everyone understands it's not just about tomorrow," Irish head coach Jeff Jackson said of the playoff picture's impact on his team. "It's about Saturday. It's about next week. If we are fortu­nate enough to be at home next week that's great, but we've been a really good road team. in the second half." 
Although the Irish control their own destiny regarding home ice, other action around the league will significantly impact the fmal standings. 
In its best-case scenario, Notre Dame could tinish the season in fifth place and have the top spot in the first round. For that to happen, the Irish must sweep the Nanooks, while Northern Michigan and Ohio State, cur­rently sixth and seventh places, must split their weekend series with a tie apiece. Fifth-place Lake SupPrior State must lose its two games to second-place Michigan State. A FMris State sweep of its weekend opponent, No. 3 Michigan, would propel the Bulldogs into a tie with the Irish, but Notre Dame would break the tie with a greater number of league wins. 
"We are in control of our own destiny," Jackson said. "With the teams that are playing each other, not everybody can win this weekend. It's going to be an interesting Friday and Saturday night for sure." 
In its worst-case scenario, Notre Dame could sink to lOth place by the end of the weekend. This would result from a combi­nation of a sweep at the hands of the Nanooks and at least a tie from Ferris State in its two games against Michigan. 
"Whatever happens, will hap­pen," Jackson said. "We· need to play well and to me that's the most important factor." 
Alaska-Fairbanks is a tough opponent for an Irish team that has rediscovered its scoring touch in the last few weeks. The Nanooks are 4-1-2 in their last 


ERIN VRANISH!The Observer 

Irish forward Michael Bartlett fights for the puck against Ferris State Feb. 10. Notre Dame finishes the regular season this weekend. 


The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
the success." Notre Damn had a chance to

Baseball 
extend its lead in the sixth continued from page 24 inning after catcher Scan 
Caston walked to lead ofT and said. "You've got your senior was movod to third on pitdwr, the leader of your Andros' one-out single, but staff. and tlwn he goes out the Irish wore unable to push tlwrn and pitclws a dominat­any runs aeross. ing game like hn did." Indiana State never serious­
Bransfield's homn run came ly threatened. In his first orw batter artnr designated inning of aetion. Weiland hittnr Stnvn Andres led ofT allowed a leadoff single, but with a double in tlw second the eighth frame ended with a 
inning.  After  double play and  
tlw  home  run ,  a strikeout.  
senior center­fielder Alnx  "It's always fun to  "!Weiland! came in and did  
Netty d ()ubI IHI and senior Cody Bizzo slappnd  win the opening game ofthe year. "  a tremendous job," MainiAri said. "He  
an  BBI  singln  showed  why  I  
into right f'ield  Paul Malnlerl  have  so  much  
to  extend  the  Irish head coach  conl'idence  in  
lnad to 3-0.  him  - he  was  
"It's  always  really outstand­ 
fun  to  win the  ing."  

opening gamn of the year, Mainieri also praised the Mainieri said. "You always defensive play of Greg Lopez preaeh to your kids that if at shortstop and Hizzo in right they do certain things during field. your preparation thny will end Today's game will feature up being sueenssful, and when two-sport standout Jeff they actually go out there and Samardzija on the mound as do them it givos you a lot of the Irish take on Air Force at credibility with your own 10 a.m. in the first game of players and they get to see the Servic.e Academies Classic. The start is the first for Samardzija since his All­American season as a wide receiver on the Irish football team. 

"I enjoy watching him play football, but I enjoy watching him pitch oven morn." Mainieri said of the righthander. "If he could do half for us what he did for the football team this year, I'll be happy." 
(;arne two will feature soph­omore lefty Wade Korpi, who will face Memphis at 4 p.m. on Saturday. Game three is set for noon Sunday and jun­ior righthander Jeff Manship is slated to start for Notre Dame as it faces Oklahoma. 
For Manship, the 2006 sea­son marks the first season he will play at full strength after undergoing "Tommy John" elbow surgery in 2004 and throwing just 22 innings last season. Manship is the high­est-rated pitching prospect to ever sign with the Irish. and Mainieri is looking forward to the junior's first start. 
"Jeff Manship has the capa­bility to be a No. 1 starter," Mainieri said. "For me to say that after watching the way Tom Thornton pitched today and knowing what Jeff Samardzija can do is saying a lot. We're all hoping we can see Manship pitch the way we thought he'd be able to pitch when we recruited him a cou­ple years ago. lie's ready and able and hopefully he's going to go out and pitch a great game." 


Notes: 
+ Gaston batted second, Cooper third, Andres fourth and Lopez fifth, a new look for the Irish. Andros and Cooper were expected to bat third and fourth respectively. 
+Thornton's victory was his 21st career win at Notre Dame, tying him for 12th all time with former teammate Chris Ninsnl. 
+ Notre Dame sophomore Tony Langford will miss this season after undergoing "Tommy John" elbow surgery on Feb. 22. Langford had fig­ured to bn in the mix as a righthandnd rnlinvnr as well as in the mix as a designated hitter. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
REO SPEEDWfiGOH 
DUJE OYSTER C(JLT 
Sumloy /1(1t(h f9 

Morris Paformlng flrtl C11nt1rr 

1-""Y llptll lJ 

t10tflS Ptlffllllt>lnt ffrts (enW 011 ~u ""Mo~<ry "-"' "' 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 24, 2006 
Marquette 
continued from page 24 
great win, because Marquette is a top-30 HPI team, too," head coach Mike Brey said. "And a Marquette win, as they go ahead and win [more this season!. that could come back to being a tiebreaker." 
At 4-9, the Irish remain one win behind Louisville (5-8), Providence (5-8), St. John's (5­
9) and Hutgers (5-9). And Notre Dame knows in order to reach the Big East tourna­ment, it has to play each remaining game with the intensity of a postseason con­test. 
"We've talked about [how] it's a huge week for us, and really in a lot of ways, our tournament starts Saturday with Marquette," Brey said. 
Marquette (18-8, 8-5 in the Big East) offers a unique chal­lenge for Notre Dame because it plays a very similar style of basketball to the Irish. Both teams like to shoot 3s and both are among the leaders in the conference in points scored. 
Marquette and Notre Dame 


are tied for first in the confer­ence in 3-point shooting, each shooting 40-percent from 3­point range. The Golden Eagles enter Saturday averag­ing 75.1 points per game (fourth in the league). The Irish rank second with 76.9 points per game. 
"They're shooting the 3-point shot as good or hotter than us," Brey said. "They use it like we use it." 
Both teams have also strug­gled defensively this season and are among the Big East's worst in points allowed. Notre Dame -gives up 70.1 points per game (14th in the league out of 16 teams) and Marquette allows 68.5 points per game (12th in the league). 
But what separates the two teams is simple. Notre Dame is struggling to earn a post sea­son berth with four league wins while Marquette is sixth in the conference with an 8-5 record. The Golden Eagles also have a very good chance at making the NCAA tournament if they remain in the top part of the conference. 
Novak is a major reason why. The 6-foot~ 11 senior is a candidate for Big East player of the year and is averaging 
17.1 points per game (sixth in the league) on 4 7.1 percent shooting from the field. What's more impressive is Novak's free throw percentage. The forward has missed only one free throw all season (66-of­67). 
His 45-percent shooting from 3-point range trails only Irish guard Chris Quinn for the best in the league. 
"Novak gives them certainly an amazing weapon as a sec­ond big guy who's out on the floor all the time," Brey said. "So it's a tough matchup." 

Novak is not the only Marquette player who con­cerns Brey. Freshman point guard Dominic James is one of the most talented first-year players in the league, averag­ing 15.5 points per game and 
5.4 assists per game. James' assist average is third in the conference behind Quinn and Syracuse guard Gerry McNamara. 
"He is a tough kid physically and mentally," Brey said. "It's certainly shown in how he's shutting down Connecticut's perimeter offense during its huge second half run Tuesday. Brey said for Notre Dame to win it has to continue its strong perimeter defense against a team that likes to shoot 3-pointers. 
played this year  - he's had  a  
great year."  
Notre Dame did  a  good job  

Notre Dame and Marquette tip off at 6 p.m. Saturday at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 



Friday, February 24, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

CROISSANTWORLD 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LOMOB 
I rJ I I 
C2006 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
VONEY  
rJ 1tABBOMO J I I  ()tJ  
www.jumble.com  

INZAIN 
I ( J ( J
,____._ __._......_"'-'---'---'-"~ 
Print answer here: 

"[IIIIIIJ" 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: RUSTY LARVA ZITHER MEDLEYYesterday's 
Answer: When the watch thief was caught red-handed, it was a-"TIME-LY" ARREST 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrion 

THE: BUTCH£:!<'? 
WIFE: CALLE:D 
HI? e:xcu?e:--­

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=+7+=+::-l 25 Jedi protector 26 Many a surfer 28 Cold war abbr. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
54 Harmless reptile with a dangerous­sounding name 
55 "Somebody's Knockin"' singer Gibbs 56 Wannabe's efforts 57 Easy_ 
58 Auto performance factor, informally 
59 Start of Massachusetts' motto 
DOWN 1 Beards 2 Repay, in a way 3 "See?!" 4 Dwarf 5 Piles 6 Entangle 7 Not merely 
warm B Like some commerce 9 Far Eastern female servants 10 "Good night, sweet prince" 
speaker 
11 Now level 
12 Cold northerly 
winds of southern France 13 See 16-Across 15 _lot (very little) 20 Late 
24 Sans subtlety 

WILLSHORTZ 

30 Abbr. in a birth announcement  39 Understanding, of sorts  47 One of Hamlet's courtiers  
31 Med. specialty 32 Whiz 33 Premium product 34 Mediterranean  43 Transportation in a 1941 hit song 44 Military toppers  48 Novelist Tina McElroy_ 49 _morgana (mirage) 50 Behind  
succulent  45 Amazon warrior  51 Down  
38 Early form of Greek  killed by Achilles  52 Some bent pipes  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: ny1imes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ____________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS llAY: Patricia Richardson, 55; John Sandford, 62; Peter Fonda, 66; Kristin Davis, 41 
Happy Birthday: You will show great potential this year in saving lor your future. Set up a budget and a plan. A little will go a long way if you arc organized and smart about the way you do things. An innovative approach to life and what you decide to do will pay off. Your numbers are 2, 5, I!!. 26. 32, 41 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Trying to learn something will be lrustmting. Refrain 
!rom pointing the linger at someone else or complaining about something you know 
little about. Take a break if possible away from everyone else and rethink your 
strategy. •• 

TAURUS (April20-May 20): You will come across an opportunity to make some 
extra cash. You can take a bit ofa risk ifyou do your research properly. Be thorough 
but don't shy away from a good thing because of your own insecurities. • • ••• 
GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): You will have reason to worry about someone you 
are close to. Before you say something, think about the consequences. Once you've 
said what you think, you can't retract it. Reevaluate your motives bef(Jre you take 
action. ••• 

CANCER (.June 21-.luly 22): l'roductivity should he your intent. You may not be 
happy with some of the things going on in your personal life hut now is not the 
time to falter when it comes to how you earn your living. Responsible action will 
lead to advancement. * • 

LEO (Jnly 23-Aug. 22): Make the physical and mental alterations that will raise 
your self-esteem, putting you back on top of things. Your vision of where you see 
yourself in the future should help you strategize your path to success. ••• 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take time out to help the younger and older people 
in your life. Neglecting your roots and personal life will not help you get ahead. 
An opportunity is present but the cost involved may not be worth it. •• •• • 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You won't be able to count on others today. Focus on 
what you do best and avoid taking on anything that requires asking for help. Secret 
affairs are prevalent and, although you may be flattered by the compliments you 
receive, it is best to decline. •• 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Talk to someone in promotion and marketing. You 
can tum an innovative idea into a cash cow if you follow the proper procedures 
and get the right backing. This is an ideal time to tum your dreams into a reality.•••• 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-nec. 21 ): Don't he suckered into doing things tor people 
who are capable of doing for themselves. You will be blamed for anything that 
goes wrong today. If you have borrowed money or possessions, expect the person 
you owe to ask for their return. • • • 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Change is necessary if you want to brighten up 
your personal life. Backtracking won't be easy ifyou do make a mistake, so be sure. 
before you set your plans in motion. Follow your instincts and you aren't likely to 
make a mistake. ••• 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You have to make opportunities tor yourself. Set 
up a game plan for the future and stick to it. Create a position that will suit you or 
start your own business. Your attributes are far more serviceable than you rcali7A!. • • • 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't he too eager to give your secret plans away. 
Avoid being railroaded into donating or lending money. OtTer support through your 
services, time or suggestions. Truly put your efforts into yourself and your future. 
**** 

Birthday Baby: You arc charming, bright and full ofcreative ideas and plans. You attract attention and lots of friends. You are giving, intense, solid and responsible. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
JOCKULAR 
I WoNt:>€.\?.. If -r'I-\E Al'li'r\Ro 
HUI-\? VJHAT? \-lUI-\ ... OH··· OJ::l. 
\NOW ... v-J OW . I CAN1-t3'C:.LI E..\J £. "11-US . I RI:.A \..Li CANT 'SE-LIE.\IE -n-\ IS.. A 'V\'S.I'TOR. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 See 5 Flexible prefix 9 Cries for 
attention 14 Summoning 16 With 13-Down, 
places for shooting stars 17 Bit 18 Take (break) 19 They have African cousins 21 An eagle is on its flag 
22 Pattern of scanning lines on a TV 
23 They can be choppy 24 Bill for fine clothing? 27 Argonaut who slew Castor 
29 "Bob & Carol & Ted & Alice" co-star 
32 Hard-rock center 
35 One in a shelter, maybe 
36_ particle 
37 Is in charge 
40 Beautiful people of literature 
41 " in the Park" (Rodgers and Hart song) 
42 He wrote a hit Broadway musical with Weill 
46 Parts of some joints 
48 _ready 
49 Rank last attained in 1950 
53 Imminent, old-style 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, February 24, 2006 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Golden opportunity 
Irish return to Joyce 
Notre Dame controls Center to take on destiny; three wins Marquette Saturday should be enough 
By PAT LEONARDBy BOBBY GRIFFIN 

1 .923 Sports Writer Associate Sports Editor 
l .846 
When Big East
4 .692

All that separated Notre Commissioner Mike Tranghese Dame from a road win in 4 .692 expanded the league from 12 Marquette on Jan. 20 was a s .643 to 16 teams prior to this sea­
Steve Novak corner jump shot son, he envisioned parity
5 .615 

down the stretch within the 6 .538
with less than two seconds 
remaining. But when the Irish nation's largest conference. host the Golden Eagles this .538 But he couldn't have seen Saturday, they will have more '7 .580 this coming. on their minds than getting The Big East tournament even. 
8 .385 begins in fewer than two 
Notre Dame (13-10, and 4-9 8 .385 weeks on March 8. Twelve in the Big East) has three teams will make the tourna­
9 .357 

games left to secure a spot in ment, and right now, nine are the conference tournament 9 .3S1 all but in. and it can't afford to lose any .... Villanova (12-1), Connecticut 
games given the current log­(11-2), Pittsburgh (9-4), West 
' 
10 .231 ::;,.··

jam at the bottom of the Virginia (9-4), Georgetown (9­
...

league standings. 13 5) and Marquette (8-5) are 
GEOFF MATTESON/The Observer 

"Marquette would just be a guaranteed births, respective-
Above right, Irish forward Rob Kurz dribbles in a 62-55 win over South Florida Feb. 15. Below see MARQUETTE/page 22 right, guard Chris Quinn drives in 90-63 win over Rutgers Feb. 8. see ANALYSIS/page 19 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Game with Cincy has tourney implications 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's game against Cincinnati Saturday will be all about Big East Tournament seeding. 
Almost. 
The Irish (15-10, 6-8 in the 

HOCKEY 
Big East) who are currently in 11th place in the confer­ence and have virtually locked up their spot in the Big East Tournament, will try to improve their seed against the Bearcats {17-8, 7-7 in the Big East), who are currently tied for 8th place. 
"Cincinnati's fighting to get a better position and so are we," Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw said. 
The Irish, however, could still potentially face the unlikely scenario of missing out on the postseason, as a two-game Notre Dame losing streak and two and three­game win streaks by West Virginia and Seton Hall, respectively, would throw the three teams into a three-way tie for two postseason slots. 

That being said, Notre Dame could end all specula­tion with a win, and McGraw anticipates that her team will 
see BEARCATS/page 20 

Irish end regular season against U AF 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
It's a showdown for playoff position in the CCHA's last regu­lar season weekend and no team is thicker in the hunt than the Irish. 
Notre Dame (12-16-4, 10-12-4 in the CCHA) is set to battle Alaska-Fairbanks (14-13-5, 10­12-4 in the CCHA) for the last home playoff spot this weekend in a two-game series at the Joyce Center. 
The Irish and the Nanooks, along with Ferris State, are cur­rently deadlocked for eighth­place in the CCHA at 24 points apiece. In the CCHA playoff sys­tem, the first four teams gain a bye past the first round, while places five through eight secure 
see NANOOKS/page 20 


BASEBALL 
ND beats Indiana St. 
•

1n opener 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame seniors Tom Thornton and Matt Bransfield started their final season with a bang on Thursday after­noon. 
Thornton tossed seven shutout innings and Bransfield slugged a two-run home run to lead No. 22 Notre Dame to a 3-0 win over tndiana State in Millington, Tenn., at USA Baseball Stadium, a precursor to the Service Academies Classic beginning today. 
"Most of the seniors stepped up today in a big way," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said in an interview with The Observer Thursday. "We're going to need our senior class to lead the way and they cer­tainly did today." 
The 6-foot-6 lefty scattered seven hits in seven innings and freshman righthander Kyle Weiland picked up the save for the Irish. 
"The key to the game for us was Tom Thornton," Mainieri 
see BASEBALL/page21 

en 
MEN'S TENNIS NO WOMEN~s TENNIS MEN'S lACROSSE WOMEN'S lACROSSE FENCING 
NO SOFTBAll 

t: LLI 
u The No. 26 Irish will The Irish will play The Irish will host After a disastrous 3-12 Notre Dame welcomes z host No. 11 Ohio State at BYU Saturday at 11 a.m. Penn State at Loftus season in 2005, Notre 16 teams to the Midwest The Irish will travel toand Wisconsin Sundak
Eck Pavillion Saturday Saturday to open the Dame looks to return to Fencing Conference 
Miami for the Golden~ at 11 a.m. at Ec 
Panther Tournament

.... 
~ at4p.m. season . national prominence in Championships Saturday 
Pavillion. 2006. and Sunday. 
this weekend. 
cc 

page 18 page 18 page 17 page 17 page 16 
page 16
!; 








