r--------------------.~------------~--------~-~-.----------~--------~--~------.-------------------------------------~~~~~~------~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND admits 3,484 from strongest pool ever 
By KAREN LANGLEY Associate NeWs Editor . 
If statistics on accepted appli­cants for next year's freshman class are any indicator, the incom­ing class of 2010 -like each freshman class in recent years ­will be the strongest academically in Notre Dame's history. 
This year's selections were made from a pool of applicants who boasted academic statistics equal to those of Notre Dame's incoming freshman class nine years ago, Director of Admissions Dan Saracino said April4. 
"In the end, we think this is the academically strongest and ethni­cally most diverse class we've ever had," he said. 
With 12,800 applicants, this year's pool -the largest ever ­was up 13 percent from last year, Saracino said. The Office of Undergraduate Admissions sent acceptance letters to 3,484 stu­dents, and Saracino said the University hopes to enroll 1,985 students for the fall 2006 fresh­man class. Notification letters were mailed March 30. 
The size of incoming classes must remain static due to the University's physical constraints, so the number of students admit­ted each year is based on previ­ous years' yields -or the per­centage of admitted students who choose to attend. The yield has ranged during the past four years from 56 to 58 percent, Saracino said. 
"If we admit them, there's a good chance they'll come," he said. 'That's not the norm across the country." 
Saracino said private U.S. col­leges have an average yield in the 20 percent range. 
This year's admitted students ­who represent all 50 states and 32 foreign countries -are on average slightly more academical­ly qualified than last year's admit­ted students. The admitted stu­dents' average class rank places them in the top 4.5 percent of their high school classes, and they boast an average SAT score of 1398 out of a possible 1600 and an average ACT score of 32 out of a possible 36. 
Last year's admitted students also averaged a top 4.5 percent rank and 32 ACT score, but had a 
see 2010/page 4 
PRIJECTEI 2116 ElllllEI 1:1111 
1,985 students 
52% Male 48% Female top 5.6% in class 
1380 SAT 31ACT 84% Catholic 23% alumni 
children 23% ethnic minori 4% international 
Notre Dame's class of 2010 will likely be the strongest to date aca­demically, according to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. 
Rootn picks present challenges at College, University 
SMC students stress over 
Procedure differs by hall selection process, choices for Notre Dame residents 
By LISA GALLAGHER By PATRICK MOORE 
News Writer News Writer 
The looming stress of upcoming finals From searching for the perfect single to and pqpjects is nothing compared the deciding who would be the perfect room­anxiety of the room selection process for mate, the intricacies of Notre Dame's many Saint Mary's students. room selection process are sending some 
"This is the worst part of the year," students into panic mode -while others junior Alison Golubski said. "''m hot, enjoy the luck of their great room pick. sweaty, nervous and stressed." ' Room selection within Notre Dame resi­
Golubski's sense of stress is familiar dence halls is typically based upon ran­amongst most Saint Mary's students who domization and seniority. Many halls, made their final housing decisions in last however, add a personal touch to the week's room selection process. Upon sometimes-complicated process, which paying their $250 housing deposit fee, begins this week. students in each class are assigned a Some halls, like Dillon Hall and random lottery number that determines Morrissey Manor, receive lottery numbers their room selection order. from Notre Dame's Office of Residence 
"All students who have paid their Life and Housing. Others, such as Alumni housing deposit on time are entered into Hall and Carroll Hall, use an internal the computer by class year," Saint Mary's selection proces..'i. 
Saint Mary's students stand by a board in the leMans Hall lobby April 6 
see ROOMS/page 6 discussing details of the possible rooms they could live in next year. see PICKS/page 6 
Saint Mary's RAs ~d for 2006-07 school year 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
Life as a Saint Mary's resident assistant intertwines dorm liv­ing and significant responsibili­ty, creating a unique living situ­ation for students who decide to take on the job. 
Shortly before spring break the Saint Mary's Office of Residence Life hired 49 RAs, including 25 who are new to the position. 
Freshman Pauline Kistka said she was nervous after being told she would be the RA in Queen's Court, a section of 
LeMans Hall rumored to be 
haunted by ghosts. 
Kistka said she quickly changed her mind, however, and is now excited to live there -especially since she will be a sophomore in a traditionally freshman section. 
"I think it'll be more benefi­cial for the residents ... ·I am just one year older than them and have experienced every­thing that they will be encoun­tering within the past year, and [will] be more in touch w!th what they are going through," Kistka said. · 
see RA/page 4 

Students rebuild area homes 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Senior StaffWriter 
Hundreds of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students took part in the annual Rebuilding Together project Saturday in a west side South Bend neigh­borhood in hopes of making individual home improvements. 
The event, based at the Charles Black Recreation Center, takes place each April and helps low-income home­owners with necessary repairs such as new roofing, electrical wiring and yard work. This year's group spread out among two dozen residences in the area. 
see REBUILD/page 3 


----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


A tnotnent 
of Zen 
Fm!Ex dPlivered my latost hobby at 
about 2:15 last Wednesday-an 
night or nino-inch tall Chinese Elm 
tree. 
A few weeks ago I got the idea from 
some movie or TV 
show-I can't Peter 
really remember Ninneman 
which -to pick 
up the art of bon-News Writer 
sai. 
A $92 federal tax return later. and 
I'm surfing th1~ Web. 
Bonsai, in its modern form, dates 
back to about two thousand years 
ago in China. Another two thousand 
years before that, the Egyptians were 
using a similar practice. 
Now. here I am. a 21st century 
American teenager from Louisville, 
Kentucky, trying my hand at an 
ancient art. 
Yes, art-to craft a bonsai tree is 
to engage in an incredibly delicate 
and ereative process that requires 
patinnee, vision and know-how. 
Most people probably think that 
bonsai trees are just "dwarf' trees 
because of their genetics. This is 
entirely false. Bonsai come from the 
same seeds as their "normal" rela­
tives. For example, my little bonsai 
Chinese Elm is genetically pro­
grammed to grow into a full size, 60­
f'oot tall tree. 
What keeps a bonsai from growing 
to its potential is a careful regimen of 
pruning, which must be maintained 
for the entire life of the tree. In order 
to obtain a spneific shape, wire is 
used to btmd the trunk and/or 
brandws. 
But bonsai is much more than trim­
ming and bending. There is also an 
almost mystical aesthetic to it. 
Tlwre are three goals which bonsai growers attempt to bring out of the tree: shen, Znn and hi, or truth, esstmco and bPauty. No easy task, indeed. 
A Japanese cliche says the tree, its shape and the surface of the soil and the selected container come together to express "heaven and earth in one container." 
Whether or not I will accomplish that remains to be seen, as well as unlikely. Contrary to what Mrs. Simpson, my grade school art teacher, used to tell me, I've never been very artistic. But then again, maybe I've always sold myself short. I just keep telling myself I have some kind of pool of untapped potential. 
Maybe you think that this Zen stuff is just a bunch of mumbo jumbo. 
Instead of surfing Facebook in elass, cheek out some pictures of bonsai. Some of them can really take your breath away. One of my favorites is the second one that eonws up in a Google image search for "bonsai." I recommend you check it out. 
I would sell my soul to the devil to create that kind of bnauty. 
So hnre I am, setting out to become a master. Dream big, I always say. If nothing olse, it will give me some­thing to do this summer. 
Contact Peter Ninneman at 
pninnema@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The ( )bserver regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please comact us at 631-4541 so we can correcr our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, April I 0, 2006 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD RENAME ANY BUILDING ON CAMPUS WHAT WOULD IT BE? 





Brooke Trudeau  Caitlin Jacowski  Elizabeth Johnson  Hajime Sargent  
sophomore LeMans  freshman Pangborn  sophomore LeMans  freshman Dillon  
''I'd rename McCandless to 'McScandalous. ,,  "/ would name a building 'Weber Hair after my amazing roommate, ,,Anna Weber.  "Umm, any library should be re-named 'Hell.,,,  "! would change LaFortune to 'Fanstasy ,,,Kingdom.  



Kelly Fahey Michael Barrett 
sophomore junior Holy Cross Keough 
"Change ''I'd change LeMans to 0 'Shaughnessy" 'LeWomans. ,, to 'O'Shag-me­
baby.,, 

IN BRIEF 
Professor Wadad Kadi will speak about "The Primordial Covenant and Human History in the Qur'an" today at 4 p.m. in 213 DeBartolo Hall. 
Amy Welborn will be giving a lecture entitled "De-Coding Da Vinci: The Fact Behind the Fiction of the Da Vinci Code" today at 7:30 p.m. in 155 DeBartolo. 
The Swing Club will spon­sor "Open Dance Night" tonight at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
James Lardner will give a lecture on "U.S. Economic Inequality and Why it Matters" Tuesday at 7 p.m. in room 127 of Hayes-Healy Hall. 
Myla Leguro will speak abo.ut "Women Making Peace: A Philippines Initiative" Tuesday at 4:15 
p.m. in room C1 03 of the Hesburgh Center. 
Notre Dame Softball will take on Ball State at 5 p.m. Tuesday at Ivy Field. 
A campus-wide stations of the Cross procession will begin at 7 p.m. Tuesday at the Grotto. 
Notre Dame baseball will take on Manchester at 5:05 
p.m. Wednesday at Frank Eck Stadium. 
AcoustiCafe will take place at 10 p.m. Thursday in LaFortune basement. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
~ 


HIGH 70 HIGH 72 LOW 48 LOW 53 

ERIC SALES!The Observer 

Freshman Brandon Frost and Junior Johanna Sloson continue to dance after Frost lost his grass skirt during the Tahitian performance at the Hawaiian Club's Luau Saturday in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
OFFBEAT 

Intruder gains access to the front lawn of White House 
WASHINGTON-A scream­ing intruder made it onto the front lawn of the White House Sunday while President Bush was at home before being apprehended by Secret Service officers. 
Secret Service spokesman Eric Zahren described the man as "someone who has come to our attention in the past as a fence jumper." 
The bearded man, wearing blue jean.'> and a white T-shirt that said "God Bless America," jumped the fence oul'iide the White !louse and ran across the north lawn while repeat­edly yelling, "I am a victim of terrorism!" 
Members of the Secret Service emergency response team, including one holding a barking dog, chased the man with their guns drawn and surrounded him near the row of cameras set up for televi­sion stand-ups. 
Ancient dentistry proves to be a painful procedure 
WASHINGTON -Scientists have proved what patients in dentists' chairs often have thought: Drilling teeth is downright prehi<>toric. 
Dentists drilled nearly per­feet tiny holes in the teeth of live patients 7,500 to 9,000 years ago, according to car­bon-dating of skulls unearthed in a Pakistan graveyard. 
That means dentistry is at least 4,000 years older than frrst thought -and far older than the useful invention of anesthesia. The discovery of the dental work was described Thursday in the journal Nature. 
This was no mere tinkering. The 11 teeth found in the remote graveyard were hard­to-reach molars. In at least one instance, the ancient den­tist managt~d to drill a hole in the back end of a tooth, boring out toward the front of the mouth. 
Information compiled from the Assodated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY a:: 
1.1.1 
:::1: 
~ 
1.1.1 
J)

3: 
....I 

~~ 
<C 
(,) 

0 

HIGH 66 HIGH 49 HIGH 70 HIGH 68
...I LOW 44 LOW 44 LOW 48 LOW 48 
Atlanta 72 I 45 Boston 60 I 43 Chicago 67 I 50 Denver 711 43 Houston 81 I 61 Los Angeles 64 1 50 Minneapolis 75 1 56 New York 62 I 46 Philadelphia 66 I 44 Phoenix 64 I 44 Seattle 55 I 44 St. Louis 72 1 51 Tampa 80 1 60 Washington 66 1 48 
----;-------;---.;-----~--,-­
.----------------­
Monday, April 10, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
The Observer, staffers garner honors at ICPA conference 
Observer Staff Report 
The Observer was named the third-best Indiana daily student newspaper at the annual Indiana Collegiate Press Association awards ceremony Saturday. 
The Observer editorial board earned first place in the Best Staff Editorial category for "Ordinance a step backward," an editorial describing the amend­ment to the city's disorderly house ordinance passed by the South Bend Common Council in July 2005 as a step backward for relations between off-campus students and South Bend resi­dents. 
The Observer staff earned sec­ond place in the Best Single Issue category for its Nov. 18, 2005 issue, which featured several Irish Insiders as well as a front­page series on disciplinary proce­dures at Notre Dame. 
The staff also earned third place for Best Stand Alone/Pullout Section for a sec­tion on University President Emeritus Father Edward Malloy. 
Numerous staff members cap­tured a variety of individual hon­ors as well. 
Editor-in-chief Mike Gilloon won first place in the Best Sports Column category for "Give sen­iors credit," about the 2005 foot­ball team's senior class. Gilloon also won first place in the Best Sports News Story for "Strong start in the Steel City," an article covering Notre Dame's season­opening victory over Pittsburgh. 
Another first place honor went to scene writer Mary Squillace in the Best Entertainment Column category for "Welcome to the freak show," a piece on reality
TV . Second place honors went to former assistant managing editor Heather Van Hoegarden in the Best Sports Column category for "Navy rivalry more than foot­ball," about the relationship between the Naval Academy and Notre Dame. Winning third place were Van Hoegarden and former editor-in­
chief Claire Heininger in the Best Breaking News Reporting catego­ry for their coverage of Dave Duerson's resignation from the Board of Trustees. 
News writers Eileen Duffy and Nicole Zook won third place in the Best Non-Deadline News Reporting category for their cov­erage of tuition increases at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Another third place honor went to former managing editor Pat Leonard in the Best Sports News Feature category for "Oh captain, my captain," an Irish Insider pro­rue of linebacker Brandon Hoyte. 
Leonard and Van Hoegarden teamed to take third place in the Best Sports News Story category for "Weis inspires," about the hiring of Irish football coach Charlie Weis. 
Other third place honors went to scene writer Molly Griffin (Best Entertainment Column for a story on the loss of a favorite TV show) and viewpoint columnist Joey Falco (Best Opinion Column for a piece on the TV show "Laguna Beach" and how it relates to college students). 
Other Notre Dame media groups represented at the ICPA convention included the Juggler, named top literary magazine; Scholastic, named the second­best news magazine; and the Dome, named the second-best yearbook. 
submit an application to have their grants and fundraising, Paulsen When the woman saw the trans­"It's an incredibly complex net­home worked on, Paulsen said. said. formation of her home, Call said, work that works really well," Call

Rebuild 
He said skilled laborers such as "Students' energy and commit­she was deeply appreciative. said. continued from page 1 roofers and electricians worked on ment to the event is all that is "She just sat there smiling the Coordinators tried to place 30 
the homes April 1. The following asked of them," whole time. She volunteers at each house, Call Darrell Paulsen, who was respon­Saturday, students were responsi­Paulsen said. said how grateful said. While initially the amount sible for recruiting and coordinat­ble for completing non-skilled Carrie Call, the "! thought it was she was, how people may have made things ing student volunteers, said the labor like scrapping, cleaning and director for the thankful," Call said. crowded, Call said she was
fantastic. It's a
project strengthens ties with the painting. Saint Mary's Office Faculty and staff amazed by how fast the work
powerful project. 
local community and gives stu­Roughly 430 student volunteers for Civic and Social members joined went. dents the opportunity to give back -slightly fewer than the 500 Engagement, You see results student volunteers It is important for volunteers to to the South Bend area. hoped for-worked on more than arranged for Saint as well as mothers feel as though they are contribut­
right away." 
"I just think it is important that 20 homes between Linden Street Mary's .to sponsor in town for Saint ing, Call said, and Rebuilding we recognize the fact that the peo­and Sample Street, Paulsen said. its own house for Mary's Junior Together does that. ple whose homes are worked on This year, information and regis­the first time this Carrie Call Mom's Weekend, "I thought it was fantastic. It's a are so appreciative," Paulsen said. tration for Rebuilding Together year. The project director Call said. They powerful project. You see results 
Rebuilding Together is a broad took place via the Internet for the had a personal con­weeded yards, right away," she said. 
Office for Civic and 
community effort, Paulsen said, first time, Paulsen said, making it nection for the planted flowerbeds, "I just think its what it means to

Social Engagement
which includes city officials, Notre easier for students to get involved. College community, cleaned ovens, be a Catholic school, to be a faith­Dame and Saint Mary's. "It worked out very well," he she said, because emptied basements based school. It's part of what we 
Each year the police department said. "Next year it will be even the owner of the Saint Mary's­and painted rooms throughout the d0." identifies a specific neighborhood smoother." sponsored house is the mother of day. City trucks drove around the that could benefit from the project. Financial sponsorship for the a Building Services worker on various sites to pick up debris, Call Contact Megan O'Neil at Residents within that area then project comes from donations, campus. said. onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

~-~ n u·F.·ius !\ e !ft~Ul~.u h'r ~-!~.i't\ h~~;l_,i ;i 1!1 ~ I'~i;~.,.·xu;~l ;u:hi \lllf .. f~IHf)JIH_: \l;i~h·!"lf~; :ln._l 1liH.'ir ({:!l,'ihJ.,, 
. . .. .'. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 10, 2006 
2010 
continued from page 1 
slightly lower SAT score of 1392. 
While the academic profile of' accepted studnnt<> has increased just slightly, the entire applicant pool has grown dramatically more competitive in recent years. 
The academic profile of all applicants for the University's freshman elass in fall 2006 ­avnrag1~ high school dass rank of top 11 percent, SAT score of 1300 and ACT scorn of 29 ­makes thnm acadnmkally identi­cal as those admitted to the fall 1997 frnshman class, Saracino said. 
Thesn statistics indicate that virtually all applimnl<> could suc­ceed academically at Notre Dame, Saradno said. 
lie stressed the emotions involved in applying to Notre Damn -a school he said draws a "very self-selective group" of applicants who "probably already see themselves at Notre 
I>arne." 
"By our saying 'no' to those studenl'i, that doesn't mean they won't go on to do great things," hn said. "It's our loss we can't admit all of them." 
Saracino emph<L'>ized that stu­dent'> can apply to transfer to the Univnrsity after their freshman year at another school. Ilis own son w<L'> not admitted initially to Notrn Dame but transferrnd to tlw University after a year else­whorfl. 
Though the actual statistics for thn litll 2006 freshman elass will not be known until acceptnd stu­dnnL'i notify the admissions ollice of thnir dncision, the ollicc proj­nel'i thn 2006 enrolled dass will average a top 5.6 percent class rank with 1380 SAT and 31 ACT scores. The office also projects the incoming class will be 52 percent male and 48 percent female. 

Catholic students will likely make up 84 percent of the class, and alumni children will com­prise 23 percent of the class, Saracino said. The admissions oflice does give alumni children "special attention," Saracino said, a privilege explained by the strong allegiance of alumni to the University. 
Almost 10 percent of appli­cants are children of alumni, and enough of those applicants are accepted that they comprise 17 percent of the accepted student pool. A higher eonfirmation rate by legacy applicants explains their 23 percent proportion in the projeeted elass, he said. 
Despite the admissions office's reciprocation of alumni loyalty, Saracino said he is committed to keeping Notre Dame "inclusive, not exdusive" and preventing it from becoming a "dub." 
'Til always be sympathetic to those students who want to go to Notre Dame but don't have a hook to get them in," he said, noting that many accepted stu­dents have no connections to alumni, faculty, athletic teams or benefactors. 
The class is also projected to be the most diverse in the University's history, with 23 per­cent ethnic minorities and four percent international students, Saradno said. 
Though high class ranks and test scores are an undeniable factor in admissions decisions, they never guarantee admit­tance, Saracino said. He noted that the admissions committees chose to accept only 438 of the 849 applicant<> who were ranked number one in their high school classes. 
In addition to turning down almost half the valedictorians, admissions also rejected a candi­date who had a 1600 SAT score, Saracino said. ' 
All University officers are noti­fied when the admissions office sends decision letters, Saracino said, because alumni, benefac­tors, parents of current students and current students frequently contact officers on behalf of high school seniors whose applica­tions were denied. 
Saracino said about 600 e­mails, faxes and voieemails were received last year, with even more expected this year as 1,400 more refection slips were sent out. 
Though the admissions office does not compile statistics on accepted students' extracurricu­lar involvement until they agree to attend, Saracino said next year's freshman class -like the rest of the Notre Dame student body -will have resumes built on more than grade point aver­ages and test scores. 
"These student<; are just as tal­ented out of class," he said. "I wonder when they sleep." 
Admissions is currently hold­ing online information sessions for admitted students and is working with alumni clubs across the world in an attempt to ensure alumni contact with every admitted student. 

"We're not selling Notre Dame -we're telling the story of Notre Dame," Saracino said. "I don't want to lose a single student because of unanswered ques­tions." 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 
RA 
continued from page 1 

Rising junior and RA Margaret Clark said RAs need to be adaptable to a variety of situa­tions while also able to enforce the rules. 
"The RA position is not a pop­ularity contest, but rather a position to ensure the safety of the students," Clark said. 
said she thinks she will contin­ue to improve as an RA throughout her time at Saint Mary's. 
"[This year] definitely taught me how to deal with certain cri­sis situations and how to say what needs to be said at the exact moment," she said, citing instances where she was able to convince, rather than force res­idents to seek help at the Counseling Center. 
Being an BA is a full time job, 
To ensure that safety, there are certain criteria that HAs must meet to be con­sidered for the position. 
Candidates must not have any outstanding debts to the College or be on disciplinary pro­bation, the Hesidencs Life 

"The RA position is not a popularity contest, but rather a position to ensure the safety ofthe students." 
Margaret Clark resident assistant 
Pangburn said, since RAs must set aside large amounts of time to be on call and meeting with other HAs. They must also be available to work the front desk in case a shift needs to be covered at the last minute. 
While it is a lot of work, being an HA is fun, Pangburn 

Web site reads. Applicants must also be at least rising sopho­mores and have at least a 2.5 grade point average. 
RAs' residential placement depends entirely upon where Hesidence Life feels the candi­dates' strengths would best fit the needs of the residents. 
Brittany Pangburn, a rising junior and RA in McCandless, said -but there are rules to follow. 
"The rules are there for a reason," she said. "You have to follow them for a reason. If something bad happens it's because we weren't doing our jobs." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO I @saintmarys.edu 

~f'tO writ~ for News? Call Amanda or 
't 


ary Kate at 1-5323. 
'"'I ' .r •~L 1•'--r._, IL.,..o" ..L:JI' -. .I -.., lrela11d I ••r.....-1111:.11 ir:••• •••• .._...Ju .-~.~~..""S,. ilillcr••sl•:i IJS: ,& ..i~:•l::. ilDII,.IIu:ttr• ...., ili~es ~ ....h.l ...._.....J..;it:J-".. 1 8 .r"\.l>l"'il 7::: t:Ml-H :lttl~ll'llln I 19 ().Sha~ I .illllll-:llai;,.:L· 4. "uulf'......-._ • all :letM..., I~ LL. I• IJitl Dll ri-.;"FH•Illfl~ lf·t~h I I 1-i:: ii,.-1:.7~1 §ll·~ii,;...._ J·''Y"i•L 1:. I >t_~ottfh:IHit-.h:ur I~ I l.. I~~'. I]·~·· I •.:! fot-.;"f"HH'Hn._f tn~h I ~1'\.'­tJ< 10 h:• I I :}!.i) l•r-. . ..W-. ~~~La.;.'%.-..:f 1;..-el t.. UIJtH. 1-:-.1 l'a~~.~(::uu·•in~ lr.-.h I ;.-.'t"LIIai!!F :~; ,i.l_,!! IIJ:~I t.,._·~;•L !"""­l~uailt''""J: 1'-el e. l••t••t 1:.01 t•.:-~•nn•n,:: h·•-..h I -..1-.~'-tl~ :-•:; ::;.tw.~.J:,.:Y.a l"'r•.•f •·:.c~..,..--...dn•f-t~.-;;.Jiiil' 1J.: 1 r; 1 ( • •• ·• :' f li l m._-r:: ....n n•r h • -..111 n ""-•· .,,..,.,::.­1 l1ii :u;;-;::· ~a 5 :w•,. !11'' """1 ...·w.<J .....-~. •Jill l'ioe I l 1•.• II•:W L•:W fi~·s:nuan•.t: h1.,h II ""'-l'w-..·1· :-{·1.-I#M.•;,;;. :'1') ii 1 u,.;: '-wL.t,;_tJ ..a;,..... too.!: I~ I [ :'1. I ll:t t L•l [nJ;.truh·th.. ah·· WI I'll'·•·•• "I R •J• ~t~ u··, -l "= l!-u•..f l:~n~-u1:­l Jo: I 1: :"1:: I II'• ; I :'• :' I t ll't;'J 11 .,_-• h .. • lr:-· 00 nt w11 "I !ioO! I I •UU ~ I :! !!!! "I' fi~ ul 1--<~ ' f;...ul$ :00 1~11._ ::-.·•:••• 1)1 .J'w...-..l ..... aaa .. t..-....1 H.-..... lui~.:... $1Fii'lam.,.hli"ullnu..-la.t I:!'·· :..:.-1.-4-llw ........ ._ f:)(·.,,~Joo.hul!!i!l..all I .il-rt ..Jillll.r'l'-<: "••til -....-. 1-"...all~l ::!~:W. I Fo-: I [ . :.::')' 1 U "',., • )II .: ·.,-fn. t a"<r> • ..• • ~ce J ,• • r .., • ••-5 u' •-·I 1-: ..*­l 'II;~ <~!•: I ~ l'r•. •1 .. I ·~ .8milii'1) .. I~--.. I 2:U•......-i'l'\: ... ll i'l'o .,•~· J·•, • -~·--"~ i0 ,u"•~"•"uru• •· IN I I ~··fl!f,l 3..:.! 15 l!!"'Wt•l (.a· l!!=f';,JO,;•Jt 1~-= I I .:... t'LI .,.,. I •I •wh""• i-~<o •·"-' t'N / ..t~"<!"U' r'-'•• *I '•"~"~~~ •.(,., I H~ ~.(Ill! l _·;:I :!'ii 1~•1 :W.1~L!(;,...,.Jth:..Jen 1-~ I I t-• fl.,·u-. ·'-~.J.. .~-t'"ii!'"-"• • •"'",•.:·.·."'·• "w; 1"..-•.~u,, ••..~~ .. ~ .,J;a•·r'"~il.r~:" ,~,r._,#(~••tNoi ._, !oJ'!Irl •; 1.)1111.1 P•r_,.•f II .-;.; ............ dh• I"-! I i :.. I II •J a·•~ lAw• ff"~ • .t~~\.·•• f;r.·.£.~.Jv11»..• f ~; ·2J>U ..._ • "'·· if'"'1•·,$" oe's-Fh;::::-.th~U;.t 1'-:1!. ..;...w:.J•""' "fi~ ... ,..},..·ru (J~<."•l•J""•~>••*-"~ lff.i:;. .·~~~~ ..i'·l'i l•""ul ·--..zu;~Lt ~.IW•uruhu.ul'j 1·«-! ..._I -U ~I I 11 I "• ..·o.. ••• •·• l!:.;r-.r·a•5u•' I Ji.: •? lt¥-loU! : -:::. Pu~-. l·u·•­1 ~ ... I •;... '.•'li :::; ... u I ••.,. •• '· -' •• '" .......~,-.... ·­I 1-1 "!·¥. :.,. II... t !;ii(j. I"'• •..• I ( ::-..· ;iO.;:«;'>l!;~ I ·-""1:1 I u I '111H:''"lf •••••... 'l>,1' •••...••,,r~: i< o>j''t .. ··~ ' : II'J . ..Jt ...... I 4_"':::: 1·!.~\f~·'Wii."l! il.j:ll  

r-------------------------------------------,--,-----­
........ 





ORLD & NATION 
Monday, April 10, 2006 CoMPILED fROA~t THE OssERVt.R:s WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Chavez clashes with diplomat 
CARACAS, Venezuela -Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez said the U.S. ambas­sador was "provoking the Venezuelan peo­ple" and threatened Sunday to expel the American diplomat. 
Chavez accused Washington of seeking to escalate tensions and "looking for another incident." The U.S. embassy in Caracas had no immediate response to the president's comments. 
The State Department said the incident Friday "clearly was condoned by the local government," with local officials handing out snacks to perpetrators at the stadium. U.S. ollieials accused police of doing nothing, say­ing a single city police car stayed well behind the convoy while motorcyclists pounded and kieknd the ambassador's car. 
Chavez says the United States is plotting against him, an accusation American offi­cials deny. The United States, however, has said Chavez is stifling democracy. 
Holy Week sparks old memories 
VATICAN CITY-Pope Benedict XVI blessed palm fronds and olive branches Sunday in the Vatican, opening a ritual-filled Holy Week that pilgrims in Jerusalem celebrated. 
In Jerusalem on Sunday, some 20,000 pil­grims from around the world joyously waved palms as they marched from the Mount of Olives into the holy city. 
This year's Holy Week will likely be bitter­SWflet lor many Roman Catholics, who remem­ber the 2005 ceremonies, when John Paul made his final public appearances. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Gas prices increase 17 cents 
CAMARILLO, Calif. -Retail gas prices across the country soared an average of nearly 17 cents in the past two weeks. 
The weighted average for all three grades increased to $2.69 a gallon by Friday, said Trilby Lundberg, who publishes the semi­monthly Lundberg Survey of 7,000 gas sta­tions in the country. 
Self-serve regular averaged $2.67 a gallon. Mid-grade cost $2.76 a gallon while premi­um hit $2.86 a gallon. 
Among the stations surveyed, the lowest average price in the country for regular unleaded was in Salt Lake City at $2.28 a gallon. The most expensive was in Honolulu, where drivers paid $2.88 a gallon. 
White House intruder jumps fence 
WASHINGTON-A screaming intruder made it onto the front lawn of the White House Sunday while President Bush was at home before being apprehended by Secret Service officers. 
Secret Service spokesman Eric Zahren described the man as "someone who has come to our attention in the past as a fence jumper." 
The bearded man jumped the fence outside the White House and ran across the north lawn while yelling, "I am a victim of terrorism!" 
The man eventually kneeled on the ground and was taken into custody around 4 p.m. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Voters blame technology for error 
INDIANAPOLIS -Three central Indiana counties are blaming a Nebraska company that makes ballots and voting machines for errors they fear could disrupt balloting in the May 2 primary. 
With the primary election less than a month away, Election Systems & Software of Omaha, Neb.. is under fire from officials in Marion, .Johnson and Hancock counties for incorrect ballots and delays in mailing the ballots and for not updating voting machine technology. 


NEPAL 

Citizens assemble for protest 
Nation unites to end absolute power of King Gyanendra, newly-imposed curfew 
Associated Press 

KATMANDU-The crisis in this Himal.ayan nation deepened Sunday as crowds demanding the restoration of democracy took to the streets across Nepal in defi­ance of a daytime curfew, throwing stones at security forces and burning govern­ment oflices. 
With King Gyanendra and his opposition both refusing to back down, the situation appeared to be reaching its most volatile point since he seized absolute power more than a year ago. The well­armed communist insur­gency has allied itself with the political opposition, which vowed Sunday to continue demonstrations indefinitely. The govern­ment warned of harsher measures in response. 
Security forces have killed three protesters, and thrown more than 800 in jail during four days of demonstrations that for the first time brought thou­sands of workers, profes­sionals and business people into the streets alongside students and political activists. 
"Even the parties didn't expect such a massive pub­lic participation across the 
country," said Lok Raj announced a nationwide his authority. a day earlier. Baral, executive chairman campaign to inelude defying Gyanendra abruptly The government on of the Nepal Centre for curfew orders, blockading ended the democratic Sunday said it was crackingContemporary Studies and highways, breaking royal experiment last year when down on the protests 
a retired diplomat. 

statues and punishing all he reclaimed absolute because communist mili­
There were protests in at those who pay taxes. power from other parts of tants had fired on securityleast four different parts of -The demonstrations will the government, arguing he forces from among the the capital, Katmandu. The be "long-drawn. I can't say needed to bring order to a crowds, despite the rebels' 
private Kantipur television how this will end," said chaotic and corrupt political pledge not to launch attacks station broadcast footage of Ram Sharan Mahat of the scene and end a communist in the capital. police shooting rubber-coat­country's largest party, the insurgency that has killed Four known Maoists were 
ed bullets, hitting at least Nepali Congress, one of nearly 13,000 people in the among the 800 people one protester. seven parties that have past decade. arrested, and they had told 
The protests, part of a banded together to oppose The latest death came in authorities that militants four-day nationwide strike, Gyanendra. "The king must the town of Banepa, just had infiltrated the protests were to end Sunday but restore democracy," he east of Katmandu, when and planned to carry out instead the king's opponents said. security forces fired on pro­attacks, Home Minister announced that they would Saturday was the 16th testers hurling stones and Kamal Thapa told continue, with no end in anniversary of the introduc­shouting slogans, said an reporters.sight. tion of democracy in Nepal, official who spoke on condi­The government's crack­
The Maoist rebels' were which came about after tion of anonymity. down on the opposition has supporting a strike by the dozens of pro-democracy More than 2,000 people prompted condemnations political opposition for the demonstrators were shot by rallied in the southern town from the United States,first time, although the two police, prompting a surge of of Bharatpur, about 90 Japan, the European Union sides struck an alliance late anti-royal sentiment and miles southwest of and neighboring India, all of 
last year. The rebels' leader, 
forcing the late King Katmandu, angered by the which have been critical of Praehanda, on Sunday Birendra to yield much of shooting of a demonstrator the king's seizure of power. 

Work crews clear tornado damage 
"After the tornadoes in west One tornado chewed up a path about 
Associated Press 

Tennessee, I said, 'Lord help us if it 150 to 200 yards wide and at least 1 0 
GALLATIN, Tenn.-Diesel smoke comes through a more densely populat­miles long, said Jimmy Templeton of the filled the air as work crews used heavy ed area,"' Gov. Phil Bredesen said. "And Sumner County Sheriff's Department. equipment to clear paths through tor­then it did a week later." ''I'm amazed we didn't have more nado-strewn debris and victims rum­Sumner County emergency officials fatalities," said Sonny Briggance, rescue maged for mementos in the remains of implemented a curfew for the areas chief for the Sumner County emergency their neighborhoods. hardest hit areas and National Guard management agency. 
Twelve deaths were blamed on the soldiers were brought in to patrol. The Seven people were killed in Sumner tornadoes, which weather officials said worst damage appeared to be in County and three in Warren County, were spotted Friday in 10 Tennessee Gallatin and suburbs northeast of about 65 miles southeast of Nashville. · counties. Nashville. Two more people died in a Gallatin hos­
It was the second deadly storm sys­Steve Hurt and eight others survived pital. Hospitals admitted at least 60 peo­tem to hit the state in less than a week. by taking shelter in a fireproof room at ple injured in the storms. Last weekend, thunderstorms spinning Lee Electric Supply Co. in Gallatin. As many as 1,600 homes were dam­out dozens of tornadoes killed 24 people "You could hear people yelling and aged or destroyed in Warren and in western Tennessee and four others in screaming outside and the debris hit­Sumner counties. Several multimillion­Missouri and Illinois. ting the walls," said Hurt. dollar homes were pulverized. 
..-;---:-(---,-----,--------------­
••• 0 ••• 
.' . 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 10, 2006 
Picks 
continued from page I 
Carroll's room pick ceremony allows residenl<> to wcnivi1 tlmir lot­tery number throu~h tlw use of a eomputer program that assigns numbers electronically. 
Carroll rnsidenL<> gather in the loun~e around a big screen 'IV to wateh what Carroll r<1dor Father Jim Lewis describt1d <L'> "a kind of vertical 'Wheel of Foriunn.' mpletn with sound dHld<>." 
While positive sounds -like an Allnluia Chorus-<u:eomp<my ~ood numbtlrs, l~1wL<> dPddnd those who are down on tlwir luck could do witl1out tlw sound nlli1cl<>. 
"The music W<L'> funny, but the one who gel'> a bad numbt1r usually dotlsn't need pnoplP lau~hing at hL<; misliniunn," lw said. 
Students "floating" between dorms in hopPS of living in a single aro handlnd aceordin~ to individual dorm ruins and room availability. 
Alumni rector Father George Hozum said lloatPrs arn plaend in tlw hall's lottery, givin~ them virtu­ally tlw samn chmm• <L'> <my other wsidnnt. 
But Badin rector Anne Napoli said she automatically places floaters at the rnJltom of hnr list ­barrin~ extenuating dreumstm1l:es -whilo Dillon rector Paul Doyle Iillo.; all singltls internally and leaVIlS no room li1r lloatnrs. 
Unlike most dorms at Notre Damn, Doyle said Dillon residenlo.; havn thn option to "freeze" their rooms. allowing stud1mlo.; to remain in the same dorm room for two consecutive years. 
Pasquerilla East sophomorn Katie Napleton said while she lives in a dorm whom room dimnnsions do not vary, she thinks the Uniwrsity's owrall room selection process is "pretty fair." 

"lin my dorm) people ba<>ically do room picks on section preference rather than differences between rooms," she said. 
Knott junior Brooks Wundnr said altl1ough the process L<; never error­frne, "thnre L<> no perfect way to go about it ... but [selection process organizers[ do the best they can. 
"Guys don't really care," he said, "but somehow girls always end up fighting and crying." 
This scenario, however, was not the ca<>e li1r freshmen roommates Leeah Kohley and Hebecca (;annon, who will room togothor in McGlinn again next year after dnveloping a dose friendship. 
"It's pretty kefm iliat we not only gnt along, but we're aetually really good friends," Kohley said. "We haVI~ a lot of hijinks and I honestly couldn't imagine rooming with <Ulother person next year." 
Even though Kohley's room­mau~·s good lottery number allowed them to have a decent choice of a double, she said she believes the procndurn L<> not perfectly fhlr. 
"I know some girls in forced triples this year who think they should'VI~ gotten first pick for next year, which I sort of agree with since they had less space this year," she said. 
Dillon freshman Jason Nowak wa<; not a<> fortunate, receiving the 95th room pick out of 95 freshmen. I le said he believes a completely r<Uldom lottery L<; unfair. 
"I have last pick and I've done nothing wrong, whereas people who have gotten [sanctions from the Ollice of Hesidence Life and Housing] and everything are much higher than me," he said. "Even people with multiple 'ResLifes' are above me." 
Contact Patrick Moore at pmoore1@nd.edu 
said she ended up wiili her sixth rate and immediate feedback on room choice overall. deeming it what spaces are still available"
Roo01s 
not "ideal, but still good." for students who have yet to continued from page I "There was no tear shed this choose their rooms for the fall 
year, so that's a good sign," semester. Director of Hesidence Life Lezynski said. "It's always painful "[The new system l will also Michelle Hussell said. "Then ilie when it gets down to those last help students receive their mail­computer nmdomly assigns each few remaining room [choices)." box and phone numbors sooner," student a lottery number which Hussell said she empathizes Hussell said. we [publicly) post." witl1 ilie room selection troubles. For the most part, student 
According to Hussell, rising fifth "I think ilie inability to control responses to these changes have year students and · what is happening been positive. Junior Alanna seniors kicked off is what causes Chiefari said she noticed the the selection students' frustra­process seemed morn organized
"We. want, as much 
process last tion," she said. than in previous years. 
as possible, to have
Monday, having the Hussell said she "I thought it went really option to choose to each hall be realizes students smoothly," she said. "Thern wnrn live in any of can become frus­signs directing us where to go,
representative of
College's dorm trated easily dur­and when we went to sign our
the entire student 
rooms. After they ing room selection contracts [stall' members[ were make their selec­body." process "because all sitting at computors." tion, Hussell said they want to live Lezynski also said the eomput­she determines close to friends er-operated system eut down on
Michelle Russell 
quotas for the and have a nice room sele<~f:ion complexities.

director
number of rising room in a certain "The staff did a good job of juniors and sopho­Office of Residence hall." making everything run smoothly," mores who will be Life She advises stu­she said. "I thought it went vnry permitted to live in dents to go into well and it wa<> pretty quiek." each of the the process with For students who are unhappy College's four residence halls. "an open mind" and realize iliat with their future living arrange­
"Quotas exist because the with a random process it is ment<>, a wait IL<>t will be available College believes in integrated liv­impossible for stu-in September, ing," Hussell said. "We want, as dents to know how Hussell said. She much as possible, to have each everything will said housing prob­
'There was no tear

hall be representative of the work out. lems would be
shed this year, so

entire student body." "Realizing that it resolved within the 
Hussell said she determines ilie may not go exactly that's a good sign. " first iliree wonks of quotas by dividing the number of how you hoped it classes. rooms available in each residence would ... doesn't Prior to thn

Siobhan Lezynski

hall number by the percentage of mean it will be ter­room selection 
sophomore

rising juniors and sophomores rible," Hussell process, Hussell she deems appropriate to live said. encourages stu­iliere. She said subtle denlo.; to have a li<>t 
First year student Meg changes to the process have been of alu~mate rooms or living situa-Frechette said Holy Cross Hall made over the years to make it tions and also encourages stu­was ilie most desirable dorm to both student-friendly and more dents to be prepared. live in for the 2006-07 school efficient. "Make sure you really under­year. This year, Russell said, is the stand the process before going 
"All our friends are living there first Saint Mary's will use comput­through it," Hussell said. and its filling up really fast," ers to enter housing information. Frechette said. She anticipates ilie computers Contact Lisa Gallagher at 
Sophomore Siobhan Lezynski "will allow us to have more aceu-lgallaO1@saintmarys.edu 
FRENCH & FRANCOPHONE STUDIES AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAIYIE Fall 2006 Courses 
I•• HII, m \I\\~.·~ m IIi I" J'lJ. ,. \kl~·"·~·· 

,. •I .! ' .. '•I "d'I'HI;, \·; Ill ... h tl l<l "..! II ... I H \ .... ~ I it'll! .....1 I t I II ;..:~ ·.· I .,.; I I ... 
•J "• d.-4 '-I h i \'h.; t . •·nno: 
•:• •I I! " -~. •: •,., 'l.l'l'iO :..\\ IIi -..., H 1 lid ~d II .o,. I H \'\t 1 il'll• ~~.J 1 t I i I JiU 
I It I -...; II I P. ,;,; I I J ~I h:l :..1..: l ~ \ l;,i, \,1 ! I ........,.LJ· P. ••. 
J(l--•: ~-:,.,,.: •,.·1•1-h• ',( ·•I' 1••11!1 ··-.•. H.-. ~= ·\"~• I :·HI···~ I I I ;;, f I IU ;-··.k! ..... •,...;. I. 'd'll \I ••· ~ ~~ • H i I \I···~·! 

Rt •! P it I .,:u '"-I •i:'• I •, 1 •I I HI ..._( H I fr I" P. \11 R! !I 


14..1 t! V. ·Ill~~~ •: ol (Ill 1,. · ~ i '.1. i 1 · m: ;:-­ ~!I i H  !  HI-.. Ol ' 1-! •.·.·  ! II \• \''. ! I \  I  
~:•IIU 1';,.,.., IU:I 'Ill IHI ",Jgj I'IHil:•ll !•ji!'\, ~ I ~l·k I~. I ;.: I• "·"•' ....... . ~!OI H ~.L J,<. \I : ul ~< -'d Ill ;<.:·., t;•l i'l ·~ 1-Ki ~~ •,! 1 ··IH! I" ! I \1 ..;1<...··-r·.·  1'0!' n;_,:.H.• llllOI HIA'-i·Oit O;!J .t:o'!"' i!t:>'WtlW. o!;.t'll 1-€8.S€.  

Monday, April 1 0, 2006 

MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 


11,120.04 -96.46

jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 632 130 2,632 2,120,678.00 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) 
-0.96 -0.41 42.32 INTEL CP (INTC) 
-0.72 -0.14 19.24 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 
0.00 0.00 5.24 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 
-1.12 -0.31 27.25 JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU) 
-4.36 -0.18 3.95 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE +1.43 +0.70 49.63 13-WEEK BILL +0.22 +0.1 0 45.62 30-YEAR BOND + 1.57 +0.78 50.38 5-YEAR NOTE + 1.30 +0.63 48.93 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.55 67.39 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -7.00 592.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.95 80.03 
Excha Rates YEN J18.3000 EURO 
0.8271 POUND 
0.5739 CANADIAN$ 
1.1496 
IN BRIEF 
Burger King CEO Brenneman resigns 
MIAMI -Burger King's chairman and chief executive resigned Friday after start­ing a turnaround at the No. 2 hamburger restaurant chain, but his departure raised questions about the company's impending initial public offering and its continued revolving door for leaders. 
Greg Brenneman, 44, is a veteran of fixing troubled companies, such as Continental Airlines Inc. in the 1990s. He joined Burger King in August 2004 amid nearly two years of slumping sales, but the chain says it's now had eight consecutive quarters of sales growth at stores open at least a year, and profits are small but growing. 

Navistar faces accounting problems 
CHICAGO -Truck and bus maker Navistar International Corp., which has been sorting through accounting problems for months, said Friday it has dismissed its auditors and will restate financial results dating back to 2002. 
The restatements will cover fiscal years 2002-04 and the first nine months of fiscal 2005, Navistar said. 
As part of accounting overhaul, the parent of International Truck and Engine Corp. said its board of directors has fired Deloitte & Touche as its auditor and hired KPMG. 

Ford CEO accepts 40 percent paycut 
DETROIT -Ford Motor Co. Chairman and CEO Bill Ford received total compensa­tion of $13.3 million in 2005, or 40 percent less than the previous year after the automaker's North American division lost more than $1 billion, according to a proxy statement filed Friday with federal regula­tors. 
The No.2 U.S. automaker also said share­holders will vote on 10 proposals at Ford's annual meeting on May 11 in Wilmington, Del., including one that would remove sex­ual orientation from Ford's nondiscrimina­tion policy and another that would tie exec­utive compensation to progress in reducing gnHmhouse gas emissions from vehicles. Ford opposes both changes. 

THE OBSERVER 








USINESS 
page 7 
Court rules on Delphi retirees 
Decision marks beginning of efforts to decrease staffnumbers as company falters 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Auto 
parts maker Delphi Corp. 
can offer as many as 
13,000 hourly employees 
lump sum payments of 
$35,000 to retire, a bank­
ruptcy judge ruled Friday, 
marking a key milestone 
in its effort to scale back 
staff amid falling produc­
tion. 
Troy, Mich.-based 
Delphi, one of the world's 
largest suppliers of auto 
parts, filsd for bankruptcy 
protection in October and 
is trying to shed what it 
says are increasingly 
unsustainable labor 
agreements that have left 
it overstaffed and saddled 
with costly benefit pro­
gr_ams. 
Judge Robert Drain, of 
the U.S. Bankruptcy Court 
in Manhattan, approved 
Delphi's plan to offer eligi­
ble employees a $35,000 
lump sum payment in 
exchange for their retire­
ment. The payments will 
be funded by former par­
ent General Motors Corp., 
which agreed to do so 
under a broader labor 
deal. 
Delphi, GM and their 
largest union, the United 
Auto Workers, announced 
that deal in March. Under 
the agreement, some 
113,000 GM workers 
could be eligible for early to close. spinoff from GM back in Delphi's unsecured cred­
retirement incentives or The agreement, which 1999. itors' committee, which 
buyouts of between both GM and Delphi say is Last week, Delphi filed a includes representatives 
$35,000 and $140,000, key to turning around request with the bank­from companies including 
depending on seniority their businesses, hinged ruptcy court seeking per­Electronic Data Systems 
and whether they want to on Delphi getting permis­mission to void its labor Corp. and General Electric 
keep health care and sion from the bankruptcy contra,cts and retiree ben­Co., wants GM to provide 
other benefits. court. efits. The UAW, which rep­it with various documents 
At Delphi, GM's former Delphi has said its oper­resents 70 percent of so that creditors can· 
parts division and largest ating costs will drop sig­Delphi's hourly workers, examine any claims GM . supplier, 13,000 UAW-rep­nificantly if enough work­has threatened to strike if has made or makes on 
resented workers could b~ ers opt in to the plan, the court agrees. A hear­Delphi's assets 
eligible for the retirement though it won't know the ing on this issue is set for On Friday, attorneys in 
payments of $35,000. In full amount of savings or May9. the case said GM and the 
addition, 5,000 Delphi costs of the plan until In a separate matter unsecured creditors have 
workers will be eligible to employees sign up. Delphi earlier Friday, Drain indi­reached an agreement in 
return to GM. says it now pays workers cated he would approve a which GM will cooperate 
Delphi has about 6,000 upward of $78 an hour in recently reached agree­with the committee so 
employees in Indiana, wages, benefits and "lega­ment between GM and long as the parties can 
most of whom work at the cy" costs such as retiree unsecured creditors of agree to the scope and 
company's Electronics & health care and pensions. Delphi that are looking to other terms of the credi­
Safety Division headquar­The company has challenge GM if the auto tors' inquiry. 
ters in Kokomo. It also has blamed its financial strug­maker attempts to seize The parties plan to file 
about 700 workers at an gles in part on union con­big payouts from a their agreement with the 
Anderson plant that's due tracts it inherited in its restructured Delphi. bankruptcy court. 

New drug.plans prove successful 
Associated Press drowned out success stories such as advocacy groups have stressed in 
Dike's. recent weeks. 
WASHINGTON -It wasn't easy to Dike said the enrollment process Once older people enroll in one of sign up, but now that she's enrolled was horrendous. Her friends had the the drug plans offered, about three­in the new Medicare drug benefit, same problem. quarters of those beneficiaries say Ruth Dike says it's made a big differ­"None of them could do it them­they are satisfied, according to ence in her finances. selves," she said Medicare Rx Education Network. 
The cost of her medicine ranges She enrolled with the help of the The organization includes patients from about $10 to $15 a month, she local senior center and now spends groups such as the Alzheimer's ­says, versus at least $100 a month between $2 and $5 for each pre­Association and trade associations before she joined. scription. She takes medicine for representing insurers and drug mak­
"It's just a relief that I can buy the high blood pressure, arthritis, an ers. medications I need without having to ulcer and her thyroid, and she uses "Seniors who have enrolled are worry how I'm going to pay for a potassium supplement. By year's finding the benefit worth the time them," says Dike, 74, of Casper, Wyo. end, she estimates she will have and effort it takes to check out the 
Congressional supporters of the saved about $1,000. plans and sign up," said former Sen. program worry that the problems Her story fits the profile that John Breaux, D-La., who is the that marked its beginnings have Hepublican lawmakers and some group's honorary chairman. 

page 8 The Observer + FOOD NEWS Monday, April 10, 2006 
Airport business flies pizza to retnote Alaskan villages 
Associated Press 

NOME, Alaska Last Christmas, rnsidenL'i of thn Yupik Hskirno village of Savoonga added a special dish to their cvnryday lim~ of whaln, walrus. rni11dnnr and bmTios -fresh pizza flown in from Nonw. 170 milns away. 
A tiny dnlivnry joint, Airport Pizza, had opnrwd several months narlinr just stops from Nonw's busy runways, and many of Savoonga's 700 rnsidnnts wern Pager to try mor·n than convnntional pnpperoni and plain dwnse. 
Nome's first and only pil'.za dnliv­ery service dons a robust business in tlw western Alaska town of :~.500. But it n~ally stands out filr its f'rne dnliveries via commuter plane to mom than a doznn other rnmoto subarctic villages spread ovnr a rngion about the size of W<L'ihinj.,rton stall~. 
Tho villago council in Savoonga, on St. l.awrnnen Island in the iey Boring Sea. wanted a spocial holi­day trnat lilr young litmilios in tho villagn. It ordernd 50 pizzas, half toppnd with chicken and ranch drossing and tho other half with Canadian baeon and pineapple. 
Julia Noongwook, 41, swapped some of her baeon and pineapple for a sliee of chicken ranch from a relative. Noongwook said it was the first time she had tasted the popu­lar chicken ranch pie, which also comes with bacon, red onions, tomatoes and mozzarella and dwddar cheeses. 
"It was good," she said. "I like rhickon." 
Frontier Flying Service, an intrastate airline, volunteered last year to fly the pi1'2as at no charge to 1wory village on its regular flight schedule out of Nome, a Bering Sea town settled in 1899 during a massive gold rush. 
Craig Kenmonth, general man­ager of Frontier, said the free deliv­ery service helps the carrier mar­ket itself in a way that benefits cus­tomers in the largely Yupik and Inupiat Eskimo villages. 
"Our success is directly tied to the suecess of the communities we serve," Kenmonth said. "And it's a fun thing to do." 
The savings can be enormous for Nome's largely impoverished satel­lite communities, which pay some of the highest fuel prices in the nation. In White Mountain, gas cost $3.39 a gallon at the beginning of April, according to Dorothy Barr, travel coordinator for the village. 
Delivery of three or four pizzas would normally cost a village about $25, said Matt Tomter, who man­ages Airport Pizza. Tomter's wile, Jeri Ann, owns the business. Freight is charged 40 to 60 cents per pound, depending on the vil­lage's distance from Nome, with a $10 minimum. 
"They fly the pizzas for nothing, which is huge for people out in the villages," said Tomter, who quit his job as a pilot at Frontier to run the thriving pizza joint. 
The Christmas pizza order cost Savoonga anyway after a snow­storm grounded Frontier, said Noongwook, who handled the order a'i the city's gaming manag­er. 
Only 25 of the pizzas made it out on Frontier before the weather closed in. The council wanted to make sure no one felt left out by getting late pizzas on the holiday, so it paid freight charges of almost $100 to have another airline fly 


Eggland' s Best beats regular eggs 
Associated Press 

CEI>AH KNOLLS, N.J.-When Eggland's Bost Inc. launched its low-fat, low-cholesterol eggs in 1992, U.S. ogg consumption was at its lowest point in decades as dieters and others spurnnd cho­lnstorol-rich foods. 
That gave the company a big advantage over generic eggs, and a clear marketing stratej.,ry, exe­cuted with TV ads depicting mothers and grandmothers hap­pily feeding their families l•:ggland's eggs. 
The ads and the eggs' health bonefil'i have helped to boost rev­enues at the tiny Cedar Knolls company by double digits lor nine straight ynars. Hetail revenues from Eggland's eggs-which sell at a premium of up to $1 per dozen over regular eggs ­totalnd about $200 million last ymtr. with about $27 million going to the corporation and the rest to grocery stores and to Eggland's Bost farmers. who hold franehis­os. 
Compared with rogular eggs, Eggland's have 25 percent less saturated fat, 15 pt~rcont loss cho­losterol and sevnral times more vitamin E and omega-:~ ossential fatty acids, which both are bnlinvod to roduco risk of hoart dismtso and othnr disorders. J.:ggland's eggs also contain more of tho nssential mineral iodine and lutnin. an antioxidant thought to boost tlw immune sys­tmn and hnlp pnwont cancer and tlw nyn disordPr marular dog~m­
storage space 
*Lighted & Paved 
*Free Lock with Every Unit 4 Month Special: 
May through August for 
Notre Dame Students 
5x10... $149 + DEP 10x10...$199 + DEP 
Call574.247.7805 
Between Notre Dame and Airport at the corner of Mayflower and Edison 

oration. 
"The good things we're better on and the bad things we're lower on," said Eggland's presi­dent and chief executive officer, Charlie Lanktree, whose enthusi­asm for his wares rivals that of chicken magnate Frank Perdue. "The perfect food just became more perfect." 
That's accomplished by feeding hens a carefully controlled vege­tarian diet, patented under the unwieldy title, "Egg Compatible With Cholesterol Reducing Diet and Method of Producing the Sarne. " 
"This is a really special product and it has science to back it up," added Lanktree, whose company regularly tests Eggland's eggs, collected at franchisee farms and from store shelves to make sure they have the nutrient levels claimnd on the package. 
Plenty of consumers are willing to pay a premium for "specialty eggs" such as Eggland's, which include nutritionally enhanced, organic and cage-free and free-

A i'.! ENGL.ISH r\.1 .A. .J C) F~ ? ? ? 
R EFR ESt~"i ~v1 E Nr-s SERVED.. 
range varieties. 
"The specialty egg segment has grown dramatically in the last eight or nine years," said Alan Andrews, director of marketing at Pactiv Corp., the world's top sup­plier of egg cartons. 
The number of specialty eggs sold jumped from 40 million dozen in 1999 to more than 90 million dozen last year. Roughly 5 percent of the volume of fresh egg sales and 11 percent of the approximately $3 billion in rev­enues went for specialty products in 2005, according to data from Pactiv and market researcher AC Nielsen. 
While many specialty brands are sold locally, there are a few other regional or national brands touting lower cholesterol, higher ornega-3 levels or other health benefits, said Marcia Laux of the Iowa State University extension service. Brands include Organic Valley, Chino Valley Ranchers, Christopher Eggs, Land 0 Lakes and Egg Beaters, which are nutri­
tiorially enhanced egg whites. 
Tolsh)y, Dustocv~ky, Akhmatova. Tchaikovsky~ Stravinsky, Prokofiev~ Chagall, Pavlov~ Bm)·shniknv.. 
N.A.S.A. Payload Sp~cialist, 
U.S. Anns Control Liaison. 
\Vorld Bank Investment A.dviscr. 
WHAT DO THEY HAVE 
IN C~OMMON? 





RUSSIAN 
RUSSIAN 10101., FALL 2006 ~0 PRER EQlJI SITE 
http://www .nd.cdul-grl 
them in when the weather cleared later in the day. 
About 40 percent of Airport Pizza's business comes from vil­lages that get their supplies by plane through Nome, the region's hub city, Tomter said. 
The Savoonga order was one of Airport Pizza's largest, but it isn't rare to get calls for bundles of 10 or 20 pizzas from villages nearly 200 miles away. Tomter said an order for six reindner sausage piz­zas once came in from the Arctic Ocean town of Barrow, the north­ernmost community in the U.S., 500 miles to the northnast. 
"Anytime they bring a lot of peo­ple into the village it's an easy way to feed everybody," Tomter said. 
Monday, April 10, 2006 The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page 9 
Playboy creator Hugh Hefner turns 80, reflects on life 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -Playboy cre­ator Hugh M. Hefuer is in the mid­dle of an interview about his 80th" birthday when a TV cameraman asks him to move a statue of for­mer girlfriend Barbi Benton from the shelf behind him. 
The statue's nude breasts were in the shot and that might not pass muster with TV decency standards. 
"A<> much as things change, they stay the same," Hefner remarks, disappointment in his voice. "There is still controversy about, maybe even more than before, not just nudity-a nude statue." 
That is Hefner's point -that Playboy with its mission of sexual liberation is as relevant as ever in these days of federal government crackdowns on television content that some consider indecent. 
"Attitudes toward nudity and Playboy have changed, in many ways, very little," says the man who gave the world the Playboy centerfold. "In some ways it is even more political than it was in the '50s and '60s." 
The invitation to Hefuer's birth­day party Saturday-he turned 80 Sunday -unfolds to show three photos of him: one as a toddler, one holding his new magazine in 1953, and one showing a smiling young Hefuer with wavy black hair and his iconic pipe. 
The hair is thinner now and gray, almost white in places. His hearing is gone in one ear and he has the slightest bit of trouble getting up from his library couch after the interview. He quit smoking after a stroke in 1985. 
But otherwise, the man dressed in black silk pajamas and a scarlet silk jacket with black lapels shows few other signs that he is becoming an octogenarian. 
"Maybe to some extent 80 is the new 40," he says, smiling. "I truly believe that age -ifyou're healthy -age is just a number. On many levels I feel younger today than I did 10, 15 years ago." 
Hef has a lot to make him feel young. He lives with three young, blonde girlfriends in his ornate mansion in Holmby Hills. Their life is being documented in a hit reality TV show on the E! channel, "The Girls Next Door." 
His company is opening a new Playboy club in Las Vegas and a new edition of the magazine has debuted in Indonesia, sparking controversy in that largely Muslim nation. 
The famous mansion, with its free ranging exotic birds, stone grotto and game room, is a part of the fantasy he has carefully crafted around himself. 
As Hefuer reflects on his life and career, he recalls that he first rein­vented himself at 16, when he was rejected by a girl he had a crush on. He began referring to himself as Hef instead of Hugh, learned the jitterbug and began drawing a comic book, "a kind of autobiogra­phy that put myself center stage in a life I created for myself." 
He did it again in 1960, when he began hosting a TV show, bought a fancy car, started smoking a pipe and bought the first Playboy man­sion, in Chicago. 
"I came out from behind the desk and became the living personifica­tion of the dreams and fantasies that were in the magazine," Hefher said. 

Although he continues to person­ilY the Playboy philosophy, he is not unaware of the passing years. 
"You come to a point in life in which you begin to lose some very dear friends, some of whom are peers in terms of age," he said. "In the last few years, I have lost some very dear contemporaries, includ­ing my best buddy in high school, the first girl I went steady with, Mel Torme, one of my closest friends." 
Any regrets? 

"Certainly it is a life well-lived and I wouldn't trade places with anybody," he said. 
On Campus 
The Stones play China-finally
Graduation Weekend Special May 18-21 
Band unfazed by censorshipfrom government, rocks crowd ofthousands 
Associated Press Still, the band tried their best lyrics.
Need a place for your family to stay? 
to tie the show to its location, Unfazed, the Stones kicked SHANGHAI, China-Mick with Jagger shouting out greet­things off with the crowd
Try the Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Jagger strutted, Keith Richards ings in Chinese and welcoming favorite "Start Me Up" and pro-hammered out chords and the Chinese rock ceeded to tear
[Building 1185 on your campus maps.] 
thousands sang along to clas­pioneer Cui Jian through almost sics such as "(I Can't Get No) onstage to trade "I'm pleased that two hours of clas­Satisfaction." verses on "Wild the Ministry of sic rock.
~'e set a $100.00 per person donation 
But the song list was cen­Horses." Richards' and
Culture is 
sored, high ticket prices kept Cui was stopped Ronnie Woods'
for the weekend. 
protecting the 
locals away and the guest star from performing guitars rang and 
was a rocker who was tem­after the deadly morals ofthe expat shrieked, Charlie 
porarily banned after one of his June 4, 1989, mili­Watts pounded
bankers and their
aCOME EARLY [Thursday)­
songs became an anthem for tary crackdown on out the intro to
girlfriends that are
pro-democracy protesters in Tiananmen stu­"Paint It Black,"
STAY LATE [.Monday)n 
Beijing's Tiananmen Square. dent protesters, going to be confetti fell and Western rock and commu­for whom his huge dolls inflat­
coming.
same k~· price 
nism made for a strange blend "Nothing to my ed by the stage. Saturday night as the Rolling Name" had · Jagger earlier Stones finally made their debut become an Mick Jagger dismissed ques-
For reservations please caB: 
on mainland China. anthem. Rolling Stones singer tions over the As the audience in Shanghai The show had small size of the
Paul Eddv.• at 574~631~7512 or 
showed, the Stones have yet to another local ele-local Chinese find a major following among ment: an order from Chinese audience as "just the way the the country's 1.3 billion people, censors not to play five of the market works in a lot of Asia." to whom rock and roll is still band's best-loved hits, appar­He said a planned nationwide largely unfamiliar. ently due to their suggestive broadcast of the concert by 
Chinese Central Television would draw new fans. 
Despite the relative lack of Chinese faces in the crowd, local audience reaction seemed largely positive, if a little preoc­cupied with the ages of the band members. 
l\hry Fonferko at 574~631~9436 
STUDY ITALIAN THIS SUMM~ER 
"So old, and yet he can really perform," said Song Jianghong, 

referring to Jagger, 62. 

Beijing resident Xue Liang said the Stones enjoyed cult sta­tus in China. 
"They were among the first acts whose music was smug­gled in. To see them here in China now is just amazing," Xue said. 
Talking to reporters before the show, Cui hailed the concert as a "milestone" for him and all 
Chinese rock fans. 

"It is a big moment. I will never forget this," said Cui, who
("'cunplt.. ltli tilt.• 11•-st )t~a•-t~f lt~:•lian in (l ''t~t~ks: 
said he believed rock needed another five years to truly find 
Jt"'\ Ji/..t} ll tfoubJe .\'hot t~f· .tJ~\'fJJ'"t'J.\'!t.O in t/tt~ IIIOI"IIl.ftl.:.t 

that the Ministry of Culture is protecting the morals of the expat bankers and their girl­friends that are going to be coming." 
----,
-------c----------o~~-·~·---­
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, April 10, 2006 
THE OBSERVER It's hard out here for a man 
1'0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CIIIEF MikcGilloon 

MANM;(NG EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Paula Garcia 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: lbma (;ottumukkala A~s·I~ MANAGING EDITOR: Ruben Grillin 
NEWS EDITORS: Amanda Michaels Mary Karo Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Kt·n Fowler SCF.NE ElliTOR: Brian Doxwder SAINT MAltY's EI>IH>R: Kelly Meehan 1'110"11> EIHTOR: Dustin Mennella GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Graham Ebcrsch 
ADVER"nSING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 

Au DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Ahholf SYSTI'.MS ADMINISTRATOR Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
{'i74) 6_31-7471 FAX {574) 631-6')27 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
{574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsrneCit'nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
. (574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 6_31-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 651-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.!@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.t·du 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.cdu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBsERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

Tlw Observer is the independent, daily newspaper publishod in print and online by the students ofthe l Jniversiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's Colk-ge. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisemems based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistam Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views uf the authors and not nc.-cessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to tlw Editor must he signed and must include comact information. 
Qumiom regarding ObserVtT policies >-hould be directed to F.ditor ir1 ChiifMike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

11\c-t lh~~ervc:r (\lSI~ 599 2..-tOOO) i\ pnhJidtc\1 M111kl.1y t.hrtmKh MU.by c-a«pt Jurintt en1n .u11l Vlt.ltiun penudt. A ~ul'lluiilCton ro The Oh~tlver i~ $100 fm ouea~1tch:mit yt'•ll; $"i'\ lur unr 'IC'IU~lt'f, 
Th(' Ob'-Crvc:r u puhlithaf •t; POSTMASTER OZ•I Sumh l>imn~ tlall Stood addreu correcuons Wl Notre ll~~omc,IN •IMSb-lt779 The Oblervet Ptrwdk:.il pur.rli(C p.ud ar Nu1~ llamc:-P.O. Bm; n9 .UlJ .&Jdumnal maJhn~ ofHco. 024 ~uth Dining Hall 
Notrt Dame, IN 46156-0779 
Tht Ohu:rvcr it .& memh.:r 11f dl(' Aao.:iarcd Pteu. All n:prodw.:tion righu .m ICK'IVM. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Kelly Meehan Matt Puglisi Nicole Zook Jay fitzpatrick Katie Kohler Tim Kaiser Laura Scene 
Baumgartner Molly Griffin Viewpoint Joey King Graphics James Hudy 

Joey 
Falco 
Forty Ounces 
"There's a war on men in this coun­try." 
Or at least that's what Stephen Colbert announced during a recent interview with conservative Harvard professor I Iarvey Mansfield on Comedy Central's "The Colbert Heport." Mansfield, of course, was on the show pro­moting his new book, "Manliness," which delves into a topic that he daims society is ignoring in the wake of the gay and feminist equality movements. Unfortunately for the appropriately named Mansfield, though. he forgot a vital fact while writ­ing this tome of testosterone that Colbert was kind enough to point out on the show: "Heal inen don't read books." 
How true. 
Still, what exactly does it take to be a real man in America? According to Mansfield in his 300-page paean to prostates, real men are "often intoler­ant," "irrational," "prefer times of war, conflict, and risk" and, most important­ly, they "disdain women's work." In fact, during his interview with Colbert, Mansfield pointed out that in an ideal world, men would earn two thirds of the family drink beer. Not girly mixed drinks with feminine names like "Sex on the Beach" and "Flirtini." but manly lagers, ales, stouts, and draughts that fill out your gut, put hair on your chest, and force you to let out manly burps that eould literally knock down the walls of Club 23. 

It probably eouldn 't hurt to have the occasional bottle-smashing bar fight either, because chicks dig guys with broken shards of Guinness wedged in their cheeks. 

Of course, manliness isn't all sunshine and rainbows, as Mansfield and others would make it seem. There is a tragic dark side that comes along with the weight of lugging around a Y chromosome all day. 
seems reasonablP. enough for a manly man to boycott work if it involves, God forbid, working undnr a female boss. 
Yeah, right. Because of these disturb­ing faets-and the faet that llarvP.y Mansfield can't possibly have gottfm any from his wife in over a decade ­am taking a stand against this rnvital­ized manliness movement. While my version of manliness will still involve avoiding mirrors, tight jeans and all hair products other than Pert Plus (and drinking Irish beer by the pint will cer­tainly still be an important aspect of being a man), there are going to have to be some changes around here. 
Sp<)nding ten years with your parents 
in Mun<:ie, Indiana and 
playing "Grand Theft 

In a recent "Washington Auto" al'ter eollege while 
One third ofmen 
Post" column, psycholo­women get high-paying 
aged 22 to 34 are
gist Leonard Sax, author jobs and live "Sex and the of the yet-to-be-released still living at home City" lifestyles in New book, "Boys Adrift: What's with their parents York is simply unaccept­Heally Behind the able. Get off the couch 
-a 100 percent
Growing Epidemic of and do something with Unmotivated Boys," increase in the your lives, men. Also, explores the recent trend past 20 years. instead of watching 
income while doing no Still, what exactly increase in the past 20 more than one third of the does it take to be a years. He adds, "No such family housework. After change has occurred with
real man in
all, as he writes in his regard to young women." book, "Women still rather America? Interestingly enough, of young males who grad­uate from college, then spend several years at home with their parents while working menial jobs and playing videogames all day. According to the Census Bureau, Sax points out, one third of men aged 22 to 34 are still 
living at home with their parents -a 100 percent 
like housework, changing diapers, [etc.]." 
(Sure they do, Harv. When I think femininity, I think Pampers and baby poo, too.) 
But what else makes a man a man? A little over a year ago, one female Observer writer pointed out that she was sick and tired of "metrosexual" guys who spend half the day in front of the mirror and the oth'er half attempt­ing to use the lake, the reflecting pool, and toilet bowl water to make sure that their hair is styled correctly. More important than that, she said, real men there are even movies 
about this bizarre con­nection between manliness and lazi­ness, like the recent Matthew McConaughey and Sarah Jessica Parker comedy, "Failure to Launch" (which, I am happy to say, I was too busy being manly to see). 
But what does this all mean? Have men simply grown too content with their manly superiority to even attempt to compete with women in the work­place in this era of "equal opportuni­ty?" Or perhaps, as Mansfield writes, since "women are the weaker sex," it "SportsCenter" on repeat, 
Food Network should be 

mandatory daily programming so that 
manly men can learn to cook something 
other than Pop Tarts and Easy Mac for 
their families one day. Finally, since it 
doesn't look as if Congress will be rein­
stating the military draft anytime soon, 
something will have to be done about 
this tendency in undisciplined guys to 
avoid deaning dishes, floors, bath­
rooms, their bodies and basically any­
thing but their car exteriors and 
PlayStation controllers. 
Because what is the real goal of my ·new version of manliness? Becoming a trophy husband, of course. 
And since most of us don't look or 
throw a football like Brady Quinn, it's 
going to help to know how to scrub a 
toilet and roast a chicken. 
Joey Falco is a junior American Studies major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be contact­ed atjfalco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

ROTC presence not endorsement 
In his April 5 letter ("Pandora's box"), James Parrot argues that the presence of HOTC on Notre Dame's campus consti­tutes endorsement of the war in Iraq. Not so. The training of military oflicers has been part of Notre Dame's history for over sixty years, well before our country went to war in Iraq. Sustaining an HOTC program does not constitute endorsement of any particular military action, it simply recognizes the Church sanctioned right of nations to raise armies and defend themselves. 
Since Parrot chose to compare sponsorship of HOTC with endorsement of "The Vagina Monologues," let me make anoth­er comparison. Unlike prostitution, sexual abuse of a minor and extramarital sex, which are always morally wrong, the rightness or wrongness of a particular military action is a mat­ter of prudential judgment. George Weigel in the January 2003 issue of "First Things" offers a t;ompelling argument justifying the invasion of Iraq in light of Catholic just war tradition. 

Archbishop O'Brien of the Archdiocese of the Military Services says Catholics may, in good conscience, participate in the Iraq war. Catholic moral teaching allows room for dis­agreement on this issue. Even if Notre Dame were to officially support the war in Iraq, it would not necessarily be contradict­ing the teachings of the Church. A discussion about the war in Iraq would be a good thing, but please leave the HOTC pro­grams out of it. 
Tom Aranda alumnus Class of 1995 AprilS 
OBSERVER POLL 
What are you doing for 


1Submit aLetter 
Easter Break? 
, { to tbe Editor at 
Vote by Wednesday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
1, 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''The most savage controversies are those about matters as to which there is no good evidence either way. " 
Bertrand Russell philosopher 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Mond~y, April 10, 2006 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Calllpus comics: Questioning 'Jockular' 
Comic harmful to relationship 
As a Saint Mary's alumna who had to make the choice between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, I was somewhat disheartened by the comic that appeared in today's Observer (April 6). It seems that each time a step is taken forward in strengthening the relation­ship between two outstanding institutions, two steps backwards are taken when a few students make the choice to print something such as this comment attempting to damage that relationship that has been so vital to the existence of both campuses. 
In calling Saint Mary's a "parasite" to Notre Dame, it is important to view how that relationship works both ways. While it is true that Saint Mary's students are able to attend football games, classes and even the dining hall .at Notre Dame, it must be kept in mind that Notre Dame students are given equal opportunities. On many occasions I saw Notre Dame students in our dining hall during my four years at Saint Mary's. Even more importantly, as an education major, I had several Notre Dame students in my classes, as this major does not even exist at Notre Dame. Without Saint Mary's, these stu­dents would not have had many of the opportunities that they did. 
In addition, the use of the term "p;trasite" implies a negative relationship in which one body is harming another. In posing the comic strip in the fashion the authors chose to do, they are saying that Saint Mary's is in some way threatening to the Notre Dame commu­nity. If the ability to take advantage of multi­ple majors on both campuses and the ability to work together to promote common values is harmful, then perhaps the authors need to reevaluate what a positive relationship would be. I would hope that a group of adults could continue to promote what has been for so many years such a positive rela­tionship in which both parties benefit rather than making an attempt to harm what could be such wonderful experiences and opportu­nities for students on both campuses, before the tension between the campuses mounts so high that this great history dies altogether. 
Instead of trying to fmd the negative in sit­uations, let's look for the positives and what a wonderful opportunity it is to have two great campuses who have worked so well together for so long so that students of both campuses can continue to enjoy the experi­ences we as alumni have been so fortunate to enjoy, and continue to strengthen this relationship as we work to make each insti­tution the best it can be. 
Lauren Roederer alumna Saint Mary's College Class of2005 April6 


Comic hurts community 
I am writing this letter as both an alum (Notre Dame '95) and parent of a Saint Mary's student. In the April 6 edition of The Observer, the "Jockular" comic strip refers to Saint Mary's and its student population in general as "parasites." I question The Observer's editorial board policy and overall judgment in allowing the comic strip to run concurrent with the issuance of University President Father John Jenkins' highly publi­cized efl'ort to create a new vision for Notre Dame in the future -a vision that attempts to promote a campus-wide sense of reaching out to others with the hopeful exchange of opinions, ideas and overall life experiences. Perhaps the authors do not share the same vision as Jenkins and favor a culture that excludes members from the community, or the authors simply do not know the first rule of comedy: to know one's audience. To allow the comic strip to run and blatantly insult Saint Mary's contribution to what we know and love as "the Notre Dame Experience" is an even greater insult. 
Since the inception of Sorin College, Saint Mary's College and its student population have been a contributor to the sense of com­munity in this experience. I would encourage The Observer's editorial staff, and the comic strip's authors in particular, to review their 
. actions in light of Jenkins' efforts to make a great University even greater and hope that they would then extend an apology to every­one affiliated with Saint Mary's and the stu­dent population in particular. 
Michael McKevitt alumnus Class of 1995 AprilS 


Humor juvenile 
While I was disappointed by the blatantly back-handed content of Alec White and Erik Powers' "Jockular" comic in the April 6 edition of The Observer, I was more appalled by how far it fell short of being funny. It read like. a comic constructed from the Keenan Revue's rejected punch lines. 
Really biting satire, wit and irony, when used effectively, are the stuff of great comedy-and when really great, it should leave the criticized parties stifling a chuckle in spite of themselves. But when humor's potent tools are placed in juvenile hands, the e!Tect is akin to a whoopee cushion placed on the chair of that unsuspect­ing, awkward cl;wbby girl in your bio lecture. While the joke may provoke a few reflex giggles, it should also pro­duce a collective wince -both the stunt and its target are so obvious that the joke would be best confined to elementary school playgrounds or Adam Sandler movies. I was actually surprised that the comic didn't some­how try to work in quotes from "Billy Madison" or "Napoleon Dynamite"­that tactic certainly would have been as easy as the name-calling Powers and White instead resorted to by implicitly terming Saint Mary's stu­dents parasitic. 
My aim with this letter is merely to call out Powers and White on what they did in that comic, which was to repeat a tired joke rather than to seek out new, or at least more clever­ly and subtly delivered, material. I am familiar with their hilarious campaign last year for Notre Dame's student body president and vice president, so I am sure they would have been capa­ble of this had they any knowledge of Saint Mary's beyond its stereotypes. 
Allison Roche alumna Saint Mary's College Class of 2005 April9 


Portrayal inaccurate 
I write with a heavy heart today after having seen yesterday's (April 6) "Jockular" strip charac. terizing the women of Saint Mary's College as "parasites." 
It grieves me to see that such negative attitudes are not merely existent on campus but that they are tolerated to such an extent that the young men who mistook their bigotry for humor could submit such a cartoon for publi­cation with no fear of reprimand or community dismay. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are frequently called "sister schools," and like all sisterly relationships, there are some­times bumps in the road and fric­tion in the interaction. Like sis­ters, too, they share some com­mon characteristics and a com­mon heritage, but they are not the same school and should be valued and respected for the diverse gifts that each brings to the community of faith and learn­ing that the Congregation of the Holy Cross planted in South Bend over a hundred and sixty years ago. While Saint Mary's undeni­ably benefits from its relationship with Notre Dame, the benefits are hardly one-sided-Notre Dame students who wish to become certified in education take the requisite coursework at Saint Mary's, for one example, and the Keenan Revue has been hosted at Moreau Auditorium for years because its audience capacity is greater than any of the performing arts venues at Notre Dame. 
Alec White and Erik Powers owe a heartfelt apology to the Saint Mary's community for their narrow and uncharitable remarks and to the Notre Dame community for their poor repre­sentation of the same. 
Gina Caponi Parnaby alumna Saint Mary's College April? 


'Jockular' is comedy 
I am writing with a piece of advice for the authors of Friday's editorial ("Jockular misleading and offensive," April 7) and the authors of multiple other letters to the edi­tor that have criticized "Jockular" for varying reasons over the course of this academic year. Take a chill pill, people. "Jockular" is a comic strip. It is a joke. Its she~r nature as a comic"!:;trip suggests that it is not meant to be taken seriously. In the past month, "Jockular" has mocked or addressed in some form the fol­lowing topics: Touchdown Jesus, dining hall food and employees, the broken clock on the front of O'Shag, the nickname "Fighting Irish," the Viewpoint section itself, eating babies, professors and the Notre Dame men's basketball team. 
The authors of "Jockular" are not trying to promote any anti­Saint Mary's sentiments, nor did they mean to insult the mainte­nance workers at O'Shag, or make fun of a timeless Notre Dame land­mark. They are simply doing what good comedians do. They are tak­ing pertinent issues and putting them in perspective. If they want­ed to insult Saint Mary's students, they would do so somewhere else in the paper. Please note that this letter does not intend to take any stance on the Saint Mary's issue as presented in "Jockular." My only message is to relax, take a deep breath, and laugh every once in a while. Things aren't always as serious as they seem. 

Patrick Needham freshman Dillon Hall April? 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
caglecartoons.com 
'IVG" ~AV~ ~1-IABJ..G INIH!.-I~Gt\!ct fMf 1~ I~rJIArJ5 AR£ 'B.-RErt-Y 


1~S1iN~ NUtltl3AR. CA~fooN5. 
I)MJ'1 fiLL 1-f,", tA!<fooN7 "F MA'i5 ~s-·nz.v(.1ioN ... 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE

page 12 
Monday, April 10, 2006 
DPAC REVIEW 
Not your typical Bible story 
'Salome' gives new take on a classic tale, blends multicultural influences 


By MOLLY GRIFFIN Assistant Scene Editor 
Take a Biblical story adapted for the stage by an Irish writer in a production inspired by Japanese and Filipino per­formance traditions -and a picture of the produdion of "Salome" emerges. The wide-ranging inllunnces obvious in the production of Oscar Wilde's "Salome" made th11 show a truly unusual theatre experience that was intriguing on a num­ber of levels. 
The production, presented by the Department of Film, Television and Tlwatre, showcased an all-student cast with the exception of Salome, who was played by visiting performer Olga Natividad. Professor Anton Juan, an internationally acelaimnd director who has put on productions around the world. directed the show. 
It also had an unusually long run -11 performances ranging from between March 2H and April 9 -for a theatre production. 
Thn influences of Kabuki and Kyogen, both Japanese theatre forms, and Pangalay, a typn of Filipino dance based on half-women, half-bird figures, made the production an exceptionally unique experience. The Plaborate costumes, the staging and the movements of the char­acters on stage added a different per­spective on a traditional, Christian Bible story. 
The Biblical story behind "Salome" tells tlw story of how John the Baptist was bnhnadnd. The story -found in Mark 6:17-28 -involves Herod's, ruler of Galilee in Philistine, marriage to his brother's former wife Herodias, who is Salome's mother. Herod asks Salome to dance for him, promising her anything she desires, and she asks for the head of John the Baptist. 
In Wilde's version, which changes the Biblical version slightly, the idea of lust and unattainable desire figures as the central theme. Salome desires the head of John the Baptist-called Iokanaan in the play -because he rejects her amorous advances. Herod offers Salome "up to one half" of his kingdom in exchange for her to seductive dance, and he is forced to give her Iokanaan's head instead. The Syrian, another character in the play, kills himself because of his unrequited desire for Salome as well. 
The costumes -which were designed by Richard Donnelly and showed heavy influence from Kabuki theatre -were breathtaking and made the production visually stunning. The impressive hats and capes of the music playing Nobles (Meghan Hartmann, Megan O'Donoghue and Kathleen Hession) and the boxy bamboo armor of the soldiers (JudeAnne Jasso-Murad and Madison Liddy) were particularly unusual. 
The more familiar Samurai armor seen in Herod (Luke Cieslewicz). the Young Syrian (Jonathan Toupes) and Tigellinus (Larry Richey) showcased the ability of the costume designers to add diversity to traditional designs. 
The Young Syrian's armor was made of fibrous material, while Herod's vivid red and black costume looked slicker and had more detailed patters. Tigellinus' costume was one of the most impressive, with a suit of armor made from what appeared to be interlocking black stones and a helmet with antlers on it. 

The most beautiful costumes may have been the robes that Salome and her mother Herodias (Krysta Dennis) wore. They intricate vivid colors and intricate designs of their Japanese robes were particularly stunning. While Salome's gold-embroidered, white robe was beau­tiful, it was the intricately detailed red robe worn by Herodias that garnered the most notice. The colors of the costumes also served to highlight the constant ref­erences to red and white that occurred throughout the action of "Salome." 
The Kabuki make-up was minimal enough to emphasize the impressive cos­tumes, but still added a degree of theatre to the production as a whole. The absence of make-up also served to difl'er­entiate certain characters, notably Iokanaan, from other actors on stage. 
The music accentuated the half-sung, half-spoken dialogue, which added an interesting twist to what one would expect from traditional theatre. Noises, such as the banging of a stick or the ring of a bell, also served to emphasize cer­tain words or moments during the play. 
Wl}iW not at the center of the action, the Aic's constant presence in the play, couple-ith the not-quite-sung words, gave th~erformance a unique quality somewhere between a musical and a stage play. 
Despite the nearly all-student cast of "Salome," the play could have passed as a professional production. Guest artist Natividad made a fantastic Salome, but the entire cast was fantastic. Particularly notable performances included David Tull's impassioned Iokanaan and Luck Cieslewicz's gleefully nasty, and later tragic, Herod. 
The highlight of "Salome" is the dance Salome gives for Herod, and this produc­tion did a masterful job of showcasing its potential. Natividad's dancing was engag­ing, and the layered dress that came off in pieces during her performance was an achievement in costume design. The number also showed off the music and set design of the production. 
The show's final moments. which show­cased the danger and destructive power of lust, shoW'tld Salome's horrible lust for Iokanaan by having her kiss his decapi­tated head. The final moments of the play, while somewhat disturbing, were highly engaging and powerfully empha­sized the major themes of the play. 
Many plays combine ,!lifferent influ­ences and try to place old stories in new perspectives, and "Salome" masterfully balanced the diverse influences it encom­passed without distracting from the story itself. 
From the costumes to the staging, the music to the performers, "Salome" not only blended different culture elements but also balanced all of the elements of theatre without letting any one over­whelm the others. This combination made "Salome" an exciting and enter­taining theatre experience. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 

Musicians were present on stage during "Salome" and played an major part in Herodias (Krysta Dennis), left, discourages her daughter, Salome, from dancing the show as a whole. The dialogue In the performance was half-sung to music. for Herod, her husband. She grows happy when Salome's choice angers him. 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE

Monday, April 10, 2006 
page 13 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Indiana, here we come 
Phantom Planet, Slap Bracelet Suicide, Delaney peifonnfor SMC Tostal 

-
Even though the auditorium was far Notre Dame students. The band had a sing along on songs such as By KATIE KOHLER and 
from full, the audience was very sound that fit more closely with the "California" and "Lonely Day."
MOLLY LAMPING 
receptive to the Los Angeles natives. California rock vibe of Phantom Another fun and interesting part of 
Scene Writers 
It is safe to say that most of the Planet's music, but it was the headlin­the band's set was the final song. The audience came for the '"O.C.' factor," ers themselves that finally brought group broke out into a hard rock ver­
Phantom Planet may be familiar to but many left pleasantly surprised at fans to their feet. sion of the theme from "Phantom of most people as the band that sings the stage presence of the band and its As soon as Phantom Planet took the the Opera." "California," the omnipresent theme unique indie rock sound. stage, the energy in the room quickly ·students from Saint Mary's, Notre song to Fox's television hit "The O.C." "The song 'California' was great, but increased and never Dame and Holy Cross, as The band's concert at Saint Mary's on they have a lot of other good songs, came back down. The well as members of the
"It's so great that 
Thursday night, though, proved that too," Notre Dame freshman Matt band was constantly South Bend community there is more to the group Townsend said. "I impressive throughout Saint Mary's came to see the band per­than just one song. thought it was the best its hour-and-a-half long sponsored such a form.
"The song 
Phantom Planet, along concert I've seen on set. "It's so great that Saint
big event. ,
with openers Delaney and 'California' is campus this year." Greenwald showed his Mary's sponsored such a Slap Bracelet Suicide, was great, but they The Thursday night immense talent with big event," Saint Mary's able to let loose during its concert was the head­exciting guitar solos and Anna Brennan senior Anna Brennan
have a lot ofother
concert in O'Laughlin lining event of SMC nearly flawless vocals all senior said. "I wish more people Auditorium for the annual good songs too. ,, Tostal, an annual night. Greenwald's skill would have come,
Saint Mary's 
SMC Tostal. spring event for Saint particularly shined when though." The setting of the small Mary's students. The his bandmates left the Phantom Planet has
Matt Townsend 
venue and intimate crowd first band of the stage and he entertained audience been around since the mid '90s and
freshman
allowed Phantom Planet to evening was Slap requests solo, stringing together a has released a total of seven albums put on an effortless concert Notre Dame Bracelet Suicide, who total of seven of the band's songs, for record labels Epic and Geffen. The and promote its new music, won Saint Mary's Battle accompanied only by his acoustic gui­band has opened for such famous a.nd as well as play some old favorites. The of the Bands. Slap Bracelet Suicide, tar. He also played piano on a few diverse acts as Sting, Elvis Costello, venue was so relaxed, in fact, that comprised of Notre Dame and Saint songs, including the popular ballad Incubus, Maroon 5 and Ludacris. lead singer and guitarist Alex Mary's students, played a hard rock "Turn Smile Shift Repeat." Greenwald talked to the audience set. Audience participation made the ContactKatie KohlerandMollyLamping between songs and even added a few The second of the two opening concert a Iot of fun for those in atten­at kkohleOl@saintmarys.edu and sing-alongs. bands, Delaney, was also made up of dance. Greenwald asked students to m1ampi01@saintmarys.edu 



CHELSEA GULLINGfThe Observer 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 1 0, 2006 
ND WoMEN's GoLF 
Flight cancellation forces withdrawal 
MEN'S GOLF 
Freshn1an leads Irish at Purdue 
freshman. Dame's best finish since placing
Sandman shoots 69 in 
"I can't imagine anyone first in the one-round Big East played better than Josh this Championships last spring.
third round at invite 
weekend," Kubinski said. "Tee In addition to placing third, 
to green, Josh was outstanding the Irish were also able to add 
this week. No. 16 Minnesota and No. 23
By JOE QUINN 
"lie missed a few putts that Northwestern to their list of
Sports Writer 
he could have top-25 teams made, and if he defeated this year. Notre Dame coach Jim hadn't, we'd be 'Tee to green, Josh Including the two Kubinski hoped that insnrting_ talking about this weekend,
[Sandman/ was

freshman Josh Sandman into him shooting a Notre Dame has the lineup would add a spark 67." outstanding this now beaten six his team. Sandman, weekend." Golfweek top-25 
T h i s 
however, was not teams this year ­.,. weekend, the only Irish three in the last
Jim Kubinski

Sandman -player to finish two weeks alone. 
Irish head coach

playing in within the top More important­his second two. lie was ly for the Irish was tournament joined by junior finishing ahead of of the tri-captain Cole Isban, who new Big East rival Louisville. spring carded a final round 7 4 to finish The Cardinals finished in fourth did just eight strokes off the lead. place -five strokes behind the that, finish-Sandman "Josh and Cole were the two Irish.
-ing in a tin best ball strikers out there this "Beating Louisville was the for second weekend," Kubinski said. best part of the weekend," to lift Notre Dame to a third While Isban's card lacked the Kubinski said. "They are going place finish in the 12-team great single round score of to be our top competition for Boilnrmaknr Invitational. Sandman, his consistent play the Big East Championship, so Sandman, who shot a four­allowed him to finish near the it was nice to finish better than over 220 (77 -7 4-69), achieved top of the Ieaderboard. Similar them." the best finish by an Irish fresh­to Sandman, however, lsban -Notre Dame will have the man sincn current senior tri­who was without a birdie Easter break to recuperate eaptain Scott Gustafson finished Sunday until the 16th hole -before they begin the defense of sneond at the 2003 Big East struggled on the green. its Big East conference champi­<:hampionships. "lie was around the hole all onship April 23-25. The two­llis final round 69 also day, just never in," Kubinski time defending champions will equaled a freshman rncord set said. "lie was like Tiger [Woods try to add to the five league by current sophomore (~reg in The Masters Sunday.] The titles they've won since joining Hogers last spring at the shot making was there, but he the conference in 1995. Windon Memorial Classic. just nneded to make a few of Kubinski was extremely those putts." Contact Joe Quinn at pleased with the play of his As a team, this was Notre . jquinn6@nd.edu 
lr,npactoftournar,nent on Irish postseason hopes still unknown 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 

Notre Dame was forced to withdraw from the James Madison University Invitational due to a flight cancellation out of Chicago Friday evening. 
The tourna­ment was held Saturday and Sunday in Harrisonburg, Va. at the Lakeview Golf Course. 
"Our luek really just couldn't have been worse," Irish coaeh Debby King said. 

The event would have been the team's last before the Big East tournament, whieh will be held in Dade City, Fla. April 23­25. 
King said she hopes her team's play in the Big East 
tournament will not be nega­tively impacted by missing the James Madison event. 
"We just have to try and stay as eompetitive as possible after this," she said. 
In order to compensatn for the missed event, King said she might explore the possibility of organizing a competition with either the Notre Dame men's or Saint Mary's team. 
King also said that she is not sure how this will affect her team's bid for a berth in the NCAA tournament. 
''I'm going 
to have to 

"Our luck just couldn't make a lot of calls to see
have been worse . ... I'm 
where this

going to have to make 
puts us," she a lot of calls to see said. The Irish
where this puts us." 
will return to action when Debby King they travel to Irish head coach Florida for 
the Big East tournament at the Lake Jovita Golf Club. The three-day event gets underway April 2:t 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
·-ND WOMEN'S CREW 
No. 11 Irish out-rovv con1petition in Indiana Crevv Classic 
The team won the first heat of Jefson and Danielle Stealy, we didn't let Saturday beat us some very competitive teams.
Varsity eight boat leads 
the varsity eight with a time also finished first in its first down. We came back on It was a good ending to our 
team in Eagle Creek of 6:11.00, finishing ahead of heat with a time of 6:52.4. Sunday and raced really regular season." . Indiana and Purdue, who had Notre Dame's varsity four hard." The Irish have three weeks times of 6:16.70 and 6:59.50, boat, led by freshman The Irish continued their off before competing in the respectively. . coxswain Sarah Keithley, success on Sunday, finishing Big East championships April
By TIM KAISER 
The varsity eight boat was sophomores with the second 30. Notre Dame has won the
Sports Writer 
manned by junior coxswain Krist an "[The team's] first goal best time in the Big East each of the past two Maria Romano, sophomores Madison, Casey varsity eight -a seasons.
is to bring home the 

Notre Dame's varsity eight Julie Sobolewski, Amanda Fairbanks and 6:55.80 -just "[The team's] first goal is to boat brought the team a win Polk, Mary Quinn, Laura Mary McNamara championship for the behind Cal, who bring home the championship this weeknnd in the Indiana Pearson and Allison Marsh and junior third year in a row. " finished first for the third year in a row," Crew Classic, held at Eagle and seniors Melissa Felker, Shannon Cassel, with a time of Palandech said. "That's defi­Creek Heservoir in Megan Boyle and Sarah finished in 6:54.20. The nitely what we're training for
Sarah Palandech

Indianapolis. The No. 11 Irish Palandech. 7:14.0, second Irish also fin­in the next three weeks. We competed against squads from The second Irish varsity behind Irish senior ished second in plan on coming back tomor­Indiana, Purdue, Wisconsin, eight, consisting of junior Wisconsin, the varsity four row and being really intense California and Louisville. coxswain Eileen Froehlke, whieh had a with a time of and focused on that goal." 
Despite harsh weather and freshman Kendra Short, soph­time of 6:57.1. 8:23.68, behind Wisconsin, choppy waters that forced the omore Ankica Jedry, juniors "Saturday's weather was which finished in 8:17.50. cancellation of the afternoon Jessica Guzik, Alyssa Close, really rough, so we had to "Overall, I think we had a nvnnts, the Irish posted Andrea Doud and Sarah Kate fight against that," Palandech pretty good weekend," Contact Tim Kaiser at impressive results Saturday. Hafner and seniors Pamela said. "But, we came back, and Palandech said. "We raced tkaiser@nd.edu 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cems per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edit  
all classifieds for comem without issuing refunds.  
Nanny to care for our toddler. Full  4 bdrm/2 bth house near campus.  Office Space For Lease 1733 SF at  
WANTED  time weekdays during summer. Part time or full time in the fall. Previous  $1350.220-8666. Looking for lodging for home  $1000 Per Month NNN. Walking Distance to ND. Contact Grubb &  FoR SALE  TICKETS  
experience required. Fax resume or  football games?  Ellis/Grassy & Everett, Tony Davey  
 
Highly motivated.  letter to  Call574-276-8417 for details.  574-271-4060.  Come see 429 Tonti, 1/2 mjle from  Hey wait a minute! Did not Bacchus  
ethical/socially responsible,  574-251-1898.  ND Campus! Make your dream of  look like ...  
entrepreneurial, go-getters  3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web  4 BR, 1.5 BA, fenced back yard, <2  homeownership a reality. 232 sq ft,  
with desires to make a meaningful impact on  FoR RENT  site:mmmrentals.com 'Contact: Gary 574-993-2208 or grooms@ourweb­ mi. to ND. 428 Preston. $795/mo. 269-663-2299  3+car garage. Call Donna @993­5060.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone.  
transforming the international  spot. net  If you or someone you love needs  
business world while  WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED- Beautiful refinished house. 4 bdrms  4 bdrm/2bth newly remodeled  confidential support or assistance,  
making a large amount of  ROOM HOMES  1-bdrm apt. $400 + utilities.  1.5 baths. C/A & WID.  house near campus. $87,000. 220­ please call Sr. M.L Gude, CSC at  
$$$$.  MMMRENTALS.COM  AIC,security system,fenced  Gas stove, oven, microwave &  8666.  631-7819.  
532-1408  yard,carpeted,laundry,on bus route.  refrigerator.  For more information, see our bi­ 
~  I am an alum based in Jackson Hole and am looking for students  Area houses and apartments for  No smoking or pets, lease deposit required. 574-289-9365.  Hardwood floors in bdrms & tile in bathrooms.  TICKETS  weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  
for part time, full time. or summer employment to work for commis­ rent. Log onto  Retail/Office Space For Lease 1800  Big driveway & 2-car garage. Close to ND­ OAR. tix first 3 rows. Call272-7233.  Congratulations to Phil Mickelson for winning the Master's.  
sion. Can work from home.  MichianaRentals.com. Caii574-993-RENT {7368)  SF at $10 PSF NNN on SR 23 east of lro[lwood, Near ND. Contact  1 023 Talbot off of South Bend Ave. $1,400/mo.  TOP DOLLAR PAID FOR YOUR  Take it all Jaytar, Andy Scott  
www.effectiveexecutivecoaching.co  Grubb & Ellis/Cressy & Everett,  Utilities not included. Need security  FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. PLEASE  Go Saints of Fort Washington  
m  NEW! http://ndrental.tripod.com  Noah Davey 57 4-271-4060  deposit. Call277-1875 Cosimo.  CALL 277-1659.  Trash bags 4 life  






OUND THE NATION 
Monday, April 1 0, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wmE SERVICES page 15 
NBA Standings 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team  record  pet.  GB  
New Jersey  46·29  .613  
Philadelphia  35·41  .461  11.5  
Boston  32·44  .421  14.5  
Toronto  26·50  .342  20.5  
New York  21·54  .280  25  

Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team record pet. GB 
Detroit 62-15 .805 Cleveland 46-30 .605 15.5 
Milwaukee 37-39 .487 24.5 Indiana 36-40 .474 25.5 Chicago 35-41 .461 26.5 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pet. GB 
Miami 50-26 .658 
Washington 39-37 .513 11 
Orlando 31·44 .413 18.5 
Atlanta 24-51 .320 25.5 
Charlotte 21·55 .276 29 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pet. GB 
Denver 43·34 .558 Utah 37·39 .487 5.5 Minnesota 32·43 .427 10 Seattle 31-43 .408 11.5 Portland 21-55 276 21.5 
., Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record ··pet, GB 
Phoenix 50·25 .667 . •• · LA Clippers 44·31 .587 6 Sacramento 40·37 .519 11 LA lakers 40·37 .519 11 Golden State 30·46 .395 20.5 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
team record GB 
San Antonio 58·18 
Dallas 58·19 
Memphis 44·32 
New Orleans 37~39 
Houston 33·43 
NCAA Women's Top25 

No. team record'' points 
1 Texas 28·3 486 2 Arizona 30·4 469 3 UCLA 30·3 460 4 Alabama 32·4 456 5 Tennessee 33·4 403 6 Oregon State 28·3 402 7 Cal 33·4 376 8 Stanford 27·6 368 9 Arizona State 37-4 357 10 LA·lafayette 29·6 288 11 Georgia 31·9 ..: --~. 285 
,,,.,,.,.,.,.,., .278

12 LSU 35·5 
13 Michigan 20·9 259 
14 Washington 26·10 248 
15 Northwestern 22·8 243 
16 Nebraska 25·6 195 
17 TexasA&M 25-10 174 
18 Baylor 22·14 126 
19 Louisville 23·5 119 
20 Auburn 24·10 111 
21 Oklahoma 24·13·1 105 
22 Fresno State 24·13 54 
23 Southern Illinois 23·5 51 
24 Virginia Tech 28·8 41 
25 DePaul 14·7 37 
around the dial 
MLB 

Philadelphia at Atlanta, 7:05 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

New York at Indiana, 8 p.m., NBATV 
NHL 

Washington at Boston, 7:00 p.m., TBS 
PGA 


Associated Press 

There were no thrills for on a breezy afternoon at major threat to Woods' Phil, rather calculated Augusta National came pursuit of Jack Nicklaus'AUGUSTA, Ga. -Phil 
shots that forced Fred when it no longer mat· record 18 victories inMickelson is a Masters 
Couples, Tiger Woods and tered. He missed the 18th Grand Slam events. Thischampion again, and now Vijay Singh to try to catch green to the left, chipped was the third straight yearhe's making it look easy. 
him. Instead, they stum· to 20 feet and settled for Mickelson has won aOnce known as a lovable 
bled along with three-putts two putts. major -Woods is the only 
loser who went a dozen 

and a litany of other mis· This time, he didn't leap other player to have done
years and 42 majors 

takes that allowed with arms thrust into the that in the last 20 years.
before figuring out how to Mickelson to stroll up the air, as he did two years Only five others have wonwin golf's biggest events, 18th fairway with no wor­ago. Mickelson simply majors in three straight

Mickelson captured his 

second straight major ries. smiled and walked off the seasons since the Masters Sunday at Augusta He won his first major at green and into the arms of began in 1934. National without needing a Augusta two years ago his wife and children. Clark holed a bunker nail-biting finish. He with an 18-foot birdie putt He finished at 7-under shot from across the 18th closed with a 3-under 69 on the final hole. He added 281 and earned $1.26 mil­green for birdie that left for a two-shot victory over the PGA Championship last lion, putting him atop the him alone in second with a Tim Clark, and his second year at Baltusrol with a PGA Tour money list. The 69. green jacket in three flop shot to 2 feet for victory also moved him up Woods was trying to years. another decisive birdie on to No. 2 in the world rank· become the first player to 
The only surprise was the final hole. ing behind Woods. twice defend his title at the the way he won. Mickelson's only bogey Mickelson emerged as a Masters: 
IN BRIEF 

Nuggets' Hodge in good at the Paladium nightclub, where he anything," Steinberg said. "Someone had met with hip-hop artist Juelz made a mistake."
condition after shooting 

Santana, who was performing there. Previous positive tests were forDENVER -Nuggets rookie Julius 
Investigators and the Paladium man­marijuana, which Williams acknowl­
Hodge's condition was upgraded 

ager said there had been no fight at edged using. But the latest testSunday to good, a day after shots the club. apparently involved a drug other
fired into his. car on a highway 

Dolphins' Willirups seeks to than marijuana.
wounded his legs. 

overturn suspensiOn Indians'. Sabathia making
Hodge was resting comfortably in NEW YORK -Ricky Williams will progress m recovery 

the hospital, team spokeswoman 

meet with league officials Monday CLEVELAND -Indians left-hander 
Terri Washington said. No other 

seeking to overturn a drug suspen· C.C. Sabathia did some light throw·
information was immediately 

sion that could cost him the entire ing Sunday for the first time sincereleased. 
2006 season. leaving Cleveland's opener after only The Nuggets said earlier Hodge League officials will not confirm 2 1-3 innings. 
was expected to recover and could drug suspens_ions under league poli· Sabathia, on the disabled list withplay in two to three weeks. Coach 

cy that maintains confidentiality for a strained abdominal muscle, report·
George Karl said Hodge was hit 

positive tests. But Williams' agent, ed no pain but did not have a three times. Leigh Steinberg, said last week that timetable for his return. 
Adams County sheriff's deputies the hearing will take place at the "I made about 40 throws from 75 said the 22-year-old was shot while NFL offices in New York. feet and felt just fine," he said. "It's driving on Interstate 76 in north If the positive test is upheld, it not as bad as last year." Denver at about 2 a.m. Saturday. would be Williams' fourth violation A year ago, Sabathia missed six Investigators said they had no sus­of the NFL's substance abuse policy, weeks of spring training and didn't pects and did not have a motive. meaning at least a one-year suspen­make his 2005 season debut until 
A sheriff's spokesman did not sion. April 16 because of a similar ail­immediately return calls Sunday. "I don't know what happened, but I ment. His latest injury occurred Investigators said Hodge had been know Ricky didn't test positive for against the White Sox on April 2. 
... 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 10, 2006 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish win three on road trip 
Ruthrauffleads Notre Dame lineup in sweep 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Notre Dame bounced back after dropping the first game in a Saturday doubleheader to Syracuse 2-1 with three straight wins -a 7-5 ten-inning win at Syracuse and a sweep of the Pitl<>burgh Panthers (7-0 and 14­
4) Sunday. 
The Irish (21-12, 5-1 in the Big East) started the weekend off strong at Syracuse against the Orange (20-15, 8-2 in the Big East), but failed to come out with a win. 
Syracuse left fielder Tonye McCorkle singled down the left­field line with two outs in the bottom of the second inning. Designated player Cassie Morales scored from third as the go-ahead run in the 2-1 Syracuse win. 
Despite the score, the Irish still outplayed Syracuse in the eyes of Notre Dame head coach Deanna Gumpf. 
"In our one loss, we defmitely played well," Gumpf said. "We out-hit and out-pitched them, but the intensity just wasn't there." 
Intensity has been one of the focal points for the Irish this sea­son, and it showed in the night­cap against Syracuse. Notre Dame pinch hitter Carissa Jaquish's one-out, two-run shot to right center in the top of the tenth inning drove in the win­ning runs in Notre Dame's 7-5 win against Syracuse. 
Notre Dame's bats were key in the team' second victory of the weekend. The Irish lit up Orange pitchers for a dozen hits, includ­ing home runs by Jaquish and senior third baseman Meagan Huthrautl". 

The pitching duty for the game was split between the two Irish aces -senior Heather Booth and freshman Brittney Bargar. Bargar started for Notre Dame and struggled through the first five innings, surrendering four runs on 11 hil<>. 
Booth entered the game in the sixth and pitched five stellar innings of relief, allowing only two hits and one run. 
Booth's performance in relief was crucial to the Notre Dame win, as the Irish failed to muster offense until the Jaquish home run. 
For Booth, the difference between the two Syracuse games was not the team's inten­sity, but rather its nerves. 
"We came out in the first Syracuse game a little anxious, but we were a lot more disci­plined in the second game," Booth said. 
Notre Dame played its second doubleheader of the weekend in Pittsburgh Sunday, sweeping both games in decisive fashion as its bats came to life against the Panthers (24-17, 7 -3). 
Notre Dame dominated the Panthers on offense and defense in game one, winning 7-0 behind a seven-inning shutout by Booth and a home run by Ruthrauff, her second in two games. 
Booth shut down the entire Panthers lineup, allowing only five hits in a complete game ­all singles -while striking out 
11. But unlike in the Syracuse doubleheader, her performance was backed with plenty of run support. 
Behind Ruthrautrs home run and a two-RBI day for senior shortstop Sara Schoonaert, the Irish were able to notch up seven runs against Panthers starting pitcher Meghan Bostick. 
Easily the biggest game of the day for the Irish came in the sec­ond eontest against Pittsburgh, a 14-4 Notre Dame victory led by a record-breaking day by 
;•1.· ·~ S1 0,000 -1st Pface 
• , •.. !:':;·{ 50 PLAYERS WILL CASH!! 
r;:,tTEXAS HOLD'EM 
~ l. ~~,~ Tournament· No Limit!! 
Sunday April 23... 2 pm at Brentwood Bingo Hall 
3900 ltr«;olrl\\'ay 'Nus~ (U S 201 St.YJth Bt.:nd Nt}.lr tN~ A~tJY.;rt Ooors Ooon 1, 00 nm $1·:JO i:Jy·1r f!Ch;~r, $.25 ft!g,:<.N~!Ion ~t!€':1 l1r•ntt..,:.l Atdlt.·,-;; /~·•ca'&!:1e focvJ & [k"'•"t•t:i(;ot'S ~ATM. Otgar.t~t'!•DI"l: S. [U I 0.Jo)o' Sthoo1 l~0.:*1""'~e Ill 07S70 
Register Now Online: www.PokerSouthBend.com 
or Phon·o: \5741 251·8100 
Ruthraufl". 
Ruthrauff broke the Notre Dame records for home runs and HBI in a game in the second game against Pittsburgh, blast­ing three home runs -including a grand slam in the seventh ­and seven total RBI. The Irish as a whole also tied the team record for hits in a game with 21. 
Irish head coach Deanna Gumpf was most proud of her team in this game, praising especially her dominant offense. 
"We hit the ball really well out there against Pittsburgh in the second game," Gumpf said. "Ruthrauff was on fire this weekend, and it really showed in that game." 
The Irish began their barrage of runs in the first inning with four runs, including Ruthrautrs first dinger. Notre Dame piled on insurance runs throughout the game, up until the seventh with Ruthrautrs grand slam. 
"My swing was intact out there today, and I was just seeing the ball really well," Ruthrauff said about her record-breaking day. "The whole team was on a roll right from the start." 
The three wins over the week­end boosted Notre Dame's confi­dence in Big East play for the rest of the season. With confi­dence in their bats and arms, the Irish are ready to continue playing -and winning -in the Big East. 
"I we can keep playing well and pitching well, we can win the rest of our games this year," Gumpf said. "We just have to keep hitting the ball like we have been." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
NBA 


Nuggets halt Warriors comeback in close call 
Camby's 17 boards, 8 blocks lead defense 
Associated Press 

DENVER -The Nuggets moved closer to their first division title in 18 years, hold­ing off the Golden State Warriors 95-92 Saturday night. They lost focus, they were sluggish, they let an undermanned team with no c.hance of reaching the play­offs come back from a 16­point deficit. 
But they won. 

"It was an ugly win, but we will take it," said Denver's Ruben Patterson, who had 12 points. "I think guys had a lot in their heads today with what happened to Julius last night. I know I did. We were all dev­astated and hurt. But it could have been worse. He could not be here today." 
Hodge, Denver's first-round draft choice last year, was shot while driving on a north Denver highway around 2 
a.m. after visiting a friend at a nightclub. Though he was list­ed in fair condition and is expected to recover within a few weeks, the incident left the Nuggets clearly shaken. 
Denver got off to a slow start, went on an 11-2 run to go up 12 at the half, then let Golden State back in it. The lack of focus was particularly evident at the free throw line, where the Nuggets were just 21-of-40, including 7-for-16 in the fmal quarter. 
If not for Carmelo Anthony's 28 points and Marcus Camby's play inside (17 rebounds and eight blocked shots), Denver wouldn't have much of a chance, even against a team without its top two scorers. But by pulling it out, the Nuggets can win their first division title since 1988 with another win or a loss by Utah. 
"No one thought when you wake up and hear that type of news that you have to go through stuff like that," said Camby, who had at least 15 rebounds for the 15th time this season. 
Golden State played without guard Baron Davis for the 13th straight game because of a sprained ankle and had to do without Jason Richardson, who's been bothered by sore knees. Those two combine for 
41.4 points per game, so that wasn't exactly what a team that had lost seven straight games needed. 
It showed in the first half. 
With Mike Dunleavy and Derek Fisher as their only true scoring threats, the Warriors couldn't muster much offense early, hitting only eight of 26 shots in the first quarter and shooting 34 percent in the first half. It didn't help that Dunleavy and Fisher went a combined 3-for-15 in the half and Camby was all over the place on defense, swatting four shots in the first quarter. 
But after their first-half struggles, Dunleavy and Fisher fought their way back, helping the Warriors cut Denver's lead to 71-68 by the end of the third quarter. 





Like to ialk? 
Love Notre Dame? 

. --.---~~~------;-~------:(->f-,--~••~-.----,_,.--~--_,.....,-..,-.,.-__,.....,._,....,.,...,,...., 
... c • ·:"-.' 
Monday, April 10, 2006 The Observer +PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
P.wt< S1ctze. 
Eartt~ 
~~ 

-~ 
la. ~l1t!t'e 

YQt.r ~~ You Olin ~ ~ '¥lith 'YQU, L.eam rMI1I 8bcUt MBI1<. f!nd tel ua 
n"'JOAt ~~ wMt I
-~ ~ :r.,...... 

~~'.C(JmJ~ 
•lJ 

-::-:,. 
. .• < 
-___,. 

~ 
> ' 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 10, 2006 
SMC SOFTBALL 




Belles beat Scots in doubleheader 

SMC split two games with Rockford Sunday 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Sport.< Writer 
Saint Mary's put an PrHI to its thr'PP-yPar. n•gular-snason losing strPak against Alma Saturday. dPfPating Alma 'J-1 in thl' l'irst ganw as BridgPt lintll thrnw a onP-hittnr· to lin­ish tho ganw in liw innings. 
Alma hadn't lost a ronfnr­~~llCP douhiPiu•adnr sincn Albion swPpt tlw Sc(>ts in 2002 -a history that Saint Mary's lwad coarh Erin Sullivan said motivatml tlw BPIIPs to win. 
"Our tPam is lin~d of Alma corning in and intimidating pnopln," Sullivan said. "IWn wantPd tol show tlwm tlwy can't walk all ovPr us." 
Alma jtrrnpPd ahnad narly in thn first ganw as rnntnr fip,Jdnr Missy Morcom scornd ofT a wild pitch in tlw top of tho first·. Saint Mary's rnboundml in the bottom of thn fourth wlwn third baseman Laura llnlinn singl1)d, driving in a run. l.ort f"inldnr Kristin Amram follownd with a sacri­f"icn groundout to knock in a run. Grall drove in a run to finish off thn inning. 
Crall maintainml thn Belles' lt)<HI from tho mound in the top of the fifth. allowing no hits. Thn olTnnse followed by driving in six more runs to end thn gamn in thn bottom of the firth. 

Thn Bolles carried their nnergy from the first win into thn sneond game. 
"Wn took that win and kept up the llxdtement," Grall said. "The excitement carried into the'second game." 
Saint Mary's continued with the momentum of the first game to defeat Alma 8-0 in the sncond game of thn double­hnadnr. Pitcher Kristin Amram struck out eight and allowed only four hits. 
The game remained scorn­loss until the top of the fifth when tho Bnllns racked up 
four runs. Saint Mary's fin­
ishnd tlw game ofT in tho top of 
tho seventh, scoring four morn 
runs. 
Saint Mary's hit the road Sunday to takP on Hockford CoiiPgP in Hockl"ord. Ill. Tho BPIIos split the doublehoadnr. dropping the first ganw 3-0 but corning bark in tlw soeond to win 7-I. 
Bo1:kford didn't seorP until tlw bottom of the third wlwn (ksignatPd hittPr Jessica Starr seornd off an error. Starr knock1Hl in another run for Horkford in the bottom of the sixth, and Emily Carlson fol­lowed with an additional HBI. 
Sullivan said the Bolles made mPntal mistakes in tlw first gamn. 
"With so many games in a row, its hard to stay mentally tough all the time," Sullivan said. 
Saint Mary's came baek in thn second game, scoring early. Shortstop Sarah Miesle drovn in a run in the top of the first. The Belles followed with two morn runs in the top of the serond. Saint Mary's brought the score to 7-0 in the top of tho fifth when Heline and Amram both narned an RBI. First baseman McKenna Corrigan doubled, driving in a pair of runs. 
In the bottom of the seventh, Hockford's third baseman Jamie Prunty doubled, knock­ing in their only run of the game. 
Tho Belles next face Bethel College today at 5 p.m. at Ivy Field on Notre Dame's cam­pus. Pilots head coach Anna Welsh was the head coach at Saint Mary's for the past three y~ars. Welsh led the Belles to their first-ever tournament championship in 2004. 
The Belles hope to put this history behind them when they face off against Bethel. 
"We have had some great wins behind us," Grall said. "So, it's just a matter of carry­ing them over." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
~ "'r.o~o~,.i DELUXE FooTBALL PACKAGE 
"~' 

Notre Dame vs. USC Nov. 25th, 2006 

•2 CA.\·'f TICKETS 
•2 
t\IRl.lr--..1 TICI--:lTS :;\."\)O'HARE TO Lt\X 

•2 i'.I(;HTS HOTFL RFSI~RVA,TIOi'\S 

•CR< 
HJ\!f) TIV\VII TOil R0,\1 C( lliSIU.\A 


•<AlLRLU KALLYTfl[ fRIDAY ~ ICHT RFH)RE THE C>\Mt 
NO TRACK 

Irish finish third in tournan1ent 
Notre Dame qualifies five more for Big East 
By DAN MURPHY 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame lnft George Rider Track in Oxford, Ohio Saturday with seven wins and five new qualifying marks for the quick­ly approaching Big East Tournament. Both tho men's and women's teams finished in third overall with 11 :~ and 120 points, respectively. 
The host Redllawks took first 
place for both groups in the 
12-team meet. 
Freshman Mary Saxer man­aged to qualify for the NCAA regional meet with her victory in the pole vault competition. !lor 3.R-meter (12 feet,., 5 inch­es) leap was the second highest mark eleared in the conference so far this year. Sho also land­ed a spot in the program's top­live all-time marks, tying sen­ior Jaime Volkmer for fifth place. 
With a smaller squad, Notre Dame's focus was directed towards getting conference qualifying marks rather than wins. The five new additions to the conference meet are Elizabeth Philipp (steeple­chase), Lauren Biscardi (high jump), Kellen Lewis (400 meter dash). Jeff Mensch (discus) and Mike Schubert (hammer throw). The Irish now have 15 athletes headed to Storrs, Conn. for the Big East meet. 
"I think as long as we stay healthy, we have a good chance of winning the Big East," Irish sprinter Okechi Ogbuokiri said. 
Along with Mensch and 

Schubert, the Notre Dame throwers were able to domi­nate their competition, collnd­ing 39 points on tho mPn 's side and 27 for the women. 
Sophomore Kyle Annen eon­tinued his success with his sec­ond consecutive win in the hammer throw with a distance of 53.42 meters. 
"lie is really focusing on his form a lot recently, and his body awareness is getting bet­ter as he continues to take more throws." Mensch said. 
While Garet Koxlien's throw was about three meters short­er, it was enough to land him third place. Koxlien blew away the competition in the discus event, out-hurling the second place finisher by nearly four meters. His mark of 50.39 lert him just short of the 51.70 meters needed to qualify for the national meet in May. 
Freshman Anna Weber post­ed second and third-place fin­ishes in the shot put and ham­mer throw for the Notre Dame women. Her distances 
improved hnr standing in tlw Big East in both events. placing hnr firth overall in the shot put. 
Other winners for the Irish ineludnd Hyan Postel and Maryann Erigha, who both fin­ished first in the 200-metnr races. The sprinters have now captured tlunn individual titles in tho outdoor season. Erigha's time of 24.05 seconds tied her personal best set at the Cal Poly Invitational on March IS. 
"Arter Coach gave us the last weekend oiT, wo were both pretty fresh. IErighal ran pret­ty well," said Ogbuokiri, who finished third overall in the same race. 
With loss than a month until the trip to Connectirut for the Big East Championships, the Irish will attempt to stay on top of their game in order to com­plete track's triple crown by winning championships in cross country, indoor and out­door track. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 



$2,650 pH rt•"t'l'\·'.tlim: 
,( hf., I. l!r ( .t~h' 

(;() Il{ISH! 
Monday, April 10, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
Karweck, Notre Dame hold off Butler rally 
Irish attack scored two late goals to seal win 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame senior attackman Matt Karweck scored the game­winning goal with 4:16 remain­ing Saturday against Butler to give the team a 9-8 victory in its Great Western Lacrosse League (GWLL) opener in Indianapolis. 
Karweck assisted on Notre Dame's first goal to senior mid­fielder Matt Ryan early in the second quarter to cut the B u IIdog's lead to 2-1. lie later scored two of the team's last three goals, including the game­winner on a rebound from Ryan's shot that ricocheted ofT Butler goalie Ryan Kaiser. 
While Notre Dame (7-2, 1-0 in the GWLL) won the game, Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan said the team will need to improve its consistency in order to win games as the season progresses. 
"We played well at times, but we didn't relentlessly execute like we needed to," Corrigan said. "In the end, we were able to gather our poise and play hard down the stretch and pull out a win when we needed to. But I'd like to see us play more consistently than we have been over the full 40 minutes." 
Corrigan said Butler's game plan was to control the clock and try to limit Irish posses­sions. 
"It was clear from their begin­ning what they were going to do," Corrigan said. "Their game plan was to take the ball behind the goal, slow the game down, limit the number of possessions and be in it till the end." 
The Bulldogs successfully held the Irish to four first quarter possessions en route to a 2-0 advantage. After Ryan's goal, Butler responded a few minutes later. Bulldog Adam Wade beat Notre Dame goalie Joey Kemp to push Butler's advantage back to two goals. 
The Bulldogs appeared to hold a 3-1 lead into halftime, but after a quick turnover with a more than a minute remaining, the Irish attack moved into the Butler zone. 
Notre Dame fired three late shots that missed their mark before junior midfielder Bill Liva found senior attackman Pat Walsh for a goal with 54 sec­onds remaining. Walsh scored again with 1.4 seconds left in the half on an assist from soph­omore midfielder Michael Podgajny to knot the game at three apiece. 
Podgajny and freshman attackman Peter Christman led the team with two assists each. Walsh finished the day with one 
assist and three goals ­ his first  
hat trick of the year  - to lead  
all scorers.  
Senior  attackman  Brian  

Hubschmann also extended his team point lead (27) with a goal 
(17) and an assist (1 0), Bill Liva scored his fifth goal of the sea­son and freshman attackman Ryan Hoff added his tenth. 
Butler's offense -ranked out­side the top 50 in the country ­kept chipping away at the N~. 10 Irish scoring defense, match­ing Irish scoring runs and tying the contest at 8-8 with 5:48 left Karweck's the final punch. 
"It came down to a lucky shot on a lucky rebound," Karweck said. "If it wasn't for our face­off play and our defense, we wouldn't have been in the game at all. We've got to give a lot of credit to our defense. They played their [tails] off." 
Notre Dame sophomore 

Taylor Clagett returned to the face-off circle for the Irish after missing four games with an injured shoulder. 
"He's back, and he's on the field, and he's playing for us," Corrigan said. "He's got a little bit of a problem with his shoul­der, but he did a heck of a job yesterday, and he's going to be an important guy for us out in Colorado." 
Kemp -ranked eighth in the nation with a .623 save percent­age -stopped his lOth Butler shot with 2:56 remaining before Driscoll picked up a groundball with 21 seconds remaining to seal the league victory. 
Notre Dame co-captain brew Peters said the defense -a unit with a season-long .690 clear percentage that allowed .783 to Butler -needs to improve before next weekend's trip to Colorado to face Denver and Air Force. 
"There were little [fundamen­tal] things we didn't do right throughout the game, and they also worked hard for the goals they got," Peters said. "If we just played a more solid funda­mental game like we're capable of doing, that might limit their goals." 
Corrigan said the Irish need to find consistency on both sides of the game, but he was pleased with Notre Dame's ability to grind out another win when they weren't playing to their best ability. 
"It was really our execution that was lacking, and we have to do better -whether that's being more tough minded or more disciplined, we have to do it," Corrigan said. "But we had every opportunity to fold up and not make plays, but that's not what we did. It was a tie game in the fourth quarter, and we had to make plays at the end, and we did that." 
Peters·said he was proud to see the Irish perform when they really needed to. 
"Butler is a much improved game from years before, and we really wanted to get a 'W' to start our league games," Peters said. "We got the 'W' and that's what we came for." 
Notre Dame will play at Denver at 7:30 p.m Friday and then head to Colorado Springs to face Air Force at 2.p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
NBA 


Wallace, Pistons hurt Pacers' playoff hopes with big win 
Associated Press the postseason. over Indiana on Sunday. conference playoffs, improved to didn't trail until late in the first 
In fact, Jermaine O'Neal said Detroit (62-15) is a victory 35-3 at The Palace. quarter. But after Detroit went 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. the Pacers don't deserve to make away from matching its franchise Both teams appeared lethargic ahead 13 seconds into the sec­Detroit took another step toward the playoffs. record for wins and barring a for most of the game, and while ond quarter, it maintained the earning home-court advantage Tayshaun Prince scored all of late slide, will likely finish with Detroit wasn't playing for much lead for the rest of the game. throughout the NBA playoffs, his 17 points in the second half to the league's best record. The on this particular afternoon, the The Pistons led 45-35 at half­while Indiana continued a slide lead six double-digit scorers for Pistons, who already have home­Pacers were. time and had 20-plus point leads that could keep it home during the Pistons in a 98-73 victory court advantage throughout the Indiana has lost seven of eight in the third quarter, allowing 



An Olin Oistingu1sbed Lecture 
to fall a season-worst four games under .500 and is in danger of not making the playoffs after starting the season as a title con­tender. The Pacers are seventh in the Eastern Conference -only one game ahead of Chicago and Philadelphia. 
"The last two or three weeks have pretty much been the same thing. We just will not play defense," O'Neal said. "At this point, we don't even deserve to be in the playoffs." 
The Pacers started strong and them to coast the victory. 
"They looked a little tired in the second half," said Prince, diplomatically. 
Detroit's Lindsey Hunter (14), Tony Delk (11) and Antonio McDyess (10) provided a scoring boost off the bench. Richard Hamilton scored 12 and Chauncey Billups had 11 points. Ben Wallace set a season high with 22 rebounds. 
The Pistons outrebounded the Pacers 52-35 and held them to 36 percent shooting. 
The Arts: Decade:~r1t at,ci Sinful, Or Are Tl,eyr v\l()rtl, Sa,ri:rag? 
llayden Raansay Professor of Philosopl•y .and Ethics 
lJni:v,~r~ity ,of Notn;~ f)~ltnt;:­
ALISTH.l\LIA 

JVh~nd.;ly, i'>.fl>til iii. 20Db 12 -....:~)~lh 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April I 0, 2006 
SMU 
continued from page 24 
doubles to put the Irish one match away from dinehing the point. Irish frnshman Brett llnlgnson and sophomore Slweva l'arbhu lost 8-4 at No. 2 to nvnn things out, and junior Stephen Bass and freshman Santiago Montoya lost IJ-8 at third doubles to give SMU the opnning point. 
Bass and Montoya lost on a tiebreaknr. whkh would be the only tiebrnakPr not to go in favor of the Irish. 
"Winning the dose sets !was crudall." Bayliss said. "I think tlwrn wnrn four tiebreakers. and wn won all of thorn. The only orw wn didn't win was in dou­hlns." 
SMU nxtnndPd its lnad to 2-0 with a win at No. 6 singles, as Notrn Damn snnior Patrick Buchanan fpll (>-4, 6-2 at No. 6 doublns. 
But tlw Irish rnnlnd ofT five straight vietorins to run away with thn match. 
King startml the rally at No. 4. whnrn lw toppnd Southnrn Mnthodist snnior llnnrik Sodnrbnrg 6-:~. 7-6 (7-5). 

"Barry dictated-the key there was Barry had to get the first strike in," Bayliss said. "He was able to do that. lie did have a little hiccup when he served for the match at 5-4 and again at 6-5 but really played big in the last half of the tiebreaker." 
Langenkamp tied the score at two apiece with a 7-6 (7-3), 6-0 win at No.5. 
"lie was down 2-1 and won the next six points to win the tiebreaker and did not lose a game in the second set," Bayliss said. "I think he really broke Kuczer's spirit the way he played aggressively in the tiebreaker where it mattered most." 
No. 16 Bass. playing in the No. 1 spot, topped Southern Methodist senior Peter Orndsson (ranked No. 33) 6-4. 6-4 for the only singles victory that didn't go into a tiebreaker. 
"Stephen handled Oredsson 's wide serve very well," Bayliss said. "lie countered awfully well whnn Oredsson tried to pressure him and applied enough pres­sure of his own to get the job donn at onn." 
Parbhu put the icing on the cake with a 7-6 (9-7), 7-6 win at No. 2 in the final match. 
"Sheeva just kept getting him­self out of trouble, he bent but he did not break, and he refused to give in when he was down," Bayliss said. "His willingness to always meet any deficit seemed to be the difference in that match." 
The Irish have been able to come together and win close matches after a three-match skid. 
"I think the schedule has toughened us and I've seen team go both ways on that," Bayliss said. "You can take hits and after a while your confidence erodes and you're not as good, but if you have the resolve to back it up you will really benefit from the level of competition you're seeing, and I think that's what we've done." 
The team dedicated its match to Keckley, and Notre Dame vis­ited him at the health eenter after the win. lie is expected to play on Thursday when the team takes on Louisville in its final match of the regular sea­son. 
"To win without Hyan the way wn did, I think gives me a lot of optimism about the postseason," Bayliss said. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 


Shutouts 
continued from page 24 
Thn Irish elainwd thnir 23rd 1:onsneut.ive doubles point by swnnping all thre11 matches against tlw Golden Eagles. 
Thn No. 31) pairing of sopho­morn Brook Buck and fresh­man Knley Tnfft downed Marquettn's two­some of sopho­

"Their team was
more Maria an impressive 6-, Calbeto and jun­good because 6-2 shutout by ior Franeina Tefft over
they pushed
Bonnnlly 8-2 at Dabrowski at No.
everything."
Following at "[Tefl'tl lias real­No. 2, the senior Christian Thompson ly proven herself duo of Lauren on the team."
Irish player 
Conrwlly and Kiki Potts said. "She Stastny 11njoyed has been the an 8-0 shutout over (;olden deeiding factor in many of our Eagl11s junior Dominika close 4-3 wins [this season]." Dabrowski and freshman Playing at No. 4, Stastny Hobin Mntzlnr. downed Bonnelly 6-3, 6-0. 
The f'inal win for thn Irish Following Stastny at No. 5 was canw from senior Kelly Nnlson Potts, who collected her 20th and Christian Thompson in win in duals matches this sea­thnir 8-4 win over junior son. Kathlem1 Donovan and sopho-The final victory came from 


Undergraduate
Engagement Research,1nScholarly,
and 
Creative Endeavors 
Come hear Notre Dame undergraduates present the results of their scholarly inquiry 
Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
LtJ titl A t11 t•r·iccm .','t zu.lies s.·rriur 11n'S('/tla(irm Nif!llt 
C1n;~ lh·shuryth CenkJ' 7 P:'\1, 1\,londay, April JO 
more Erin Watkins. 
"Their team was good because they pushed every­thing," Christian Thompson said. "[Nelson[ played great, because she hits the ball low and doses the net nicely." 
In singles, No. 73 Christian Thompson didn't need much time in defeating Calbeto 6-0, 6-2 at No. 1. Buck topped Marquette's Watkins 6-1, 6-2 at No. 2. Her win was followed by 
Connelly, who topped Donovan 6-0, 6-0. 
The Irish return to the courts as they begin the Big East Tournament in Tampa, Fla. on April 21. 
No. 2 Notre Dame 7 DePaulO 
The Irish earned their ninth shutout of the season against the Blue Demons. 
In doubles, Notre Dame reg­istered two wins to earn the doubles point, starting with the win at No. 2 from No. 39 Buck and Tefft. The pair topped freshman Dunja Antunovic and 2. 

Connelly and Stastny clinched the point with an 8-3 victory over sophomore Bojana Murisis and junior Petra Hehusova No. 3. 
The one loss for Notre Dame came at No. 1 from the No. 4 duo of Christian and Catrina Thompson, who fell to sopho­more Beatrix Csordas and jun­ior Gergana Ganeva 8-4. 
Despite the misstep from the Thompsons, both had little trouble in earning wins in their singles matches. No. 26 Catrina Thompson downed Csordas 6-0, 6-0 at No. 1. 
Christian Thompson. who defeated Ganeva 6-4. 6-1 at No. 2. 
Buck played at No. 3 and clinched the vietory for the Irish with a 6-2, 6-1 win over Antunovic. 
The bottom half of the lineup also won in two-set matches. Tefft defeated Mihaldinec 6-1, 6-2 at No. 4, followed by Stastny at No.· 5, who topped Murisic 6-3, 6-2. 
The final Irish win came from Potts, who topped Rehusova 6-1, 6-0. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at 

--------------------------------------------------------~~~--------~-----­
Monday, April 10, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Vinny 
continued from page 24 
this week, and it definitely paid ofT," Vinny captain Andrew Nesi said. 
Ridiculousness-ness wanted to. have a strong showing in its first game of the tournament, hoping the team's fresher legs would carry it to victory. Brutoco was able to get his team ready for this game, especially on defense as Ridiculousness-ness forced turnovers and rebounded well against the taller Team Vmny. 
"We came out in the first half and had no fear," Brutco said. "We defmitely lost some momentum in the second half, but we all con­tributed some today." 
Neither team put up a consistent offensive performance Sunday as each relied on sesond or third chance opportunities before they could score. While Team Vinny split the load on offense, Brutoco shouldered much of the responsi­bility for his team. His determined drives to the hoop and great ball­handling skills kept his team close before Vinny was able to pull ahead for the win in the second half. 
Although this year's tournament was one-and-done for Ridiculousness-ness, Team Vmny advances to play We Shoot like Dick Cheney (you better wear orange) in the next round. 
Team 75 21 Out Side Irish Rugby Club 10 
Team 7 5 captain and point guard Matt Haggerty led his team to victory Sunday against the Out Side Irish Rugby Club, directing the offense while making sure the team was ready to defend when they lost the ball. 
Both teams came out with defensive mindsets, hoping to con­tain their opponent. Unfortunately for the Rugby Club, its size limited it•;; defensive effectiveness as Team 75 was able to win most rebounds during the game, giving it many put-back opportunities. 
The Rugby Club was able to get some turnovers Sunday, but it could not do too much against the stingy Team 75 defense. 
"I think we played really tight defense out there today," Haggerty said. "We got tons of rebounds, and they gave us a really good chance to win." 
The Rugby Oub did not go down without a fight, nailing long-range jump shots and running a success-ful fast break on multiple occa­sions to keep the score close for much of the first half. 

"We did a lot better than I expected," Rugby Club captain Alex Barnes said. "We played real­ly good defense and scored a lot more points than anyone would have thought." 
The Tournament is named after us, so we have to have a Team 21, Tree Hill Ravens 8 
Home court advantage is impor­tant, especially when you host the biggest outdoor five-on-five full court tournament in the world. 
Despite living farther away from the Bookstore than residents of every dorm besides Carroll, The Tournament is named after us, so we have to have a Team (Hammes) -consisting of five Bookstore employees from the South Bend area -cemented its legitimate claim to the paved domain of the Bookstore courts with a sound defeat of the Ravens. 
Hammes' ostentatious di'iplay of offensive dominance opened up a 13-1 lead over Tree Hill. Though the "L. Scott" and "N. Scott" on the Ravens' jerseys implied they had played together for three seasons on the WB hit show "One Tree Hill," they suffered from commu­nication gaffs and committed cost­ly turnovers, as Hammes picked their pockets and cashed the steals in for points in transition. 
Hammes, led by Matthew Kroll's 11 points, towered over Tree Hill for uncontested baskets, establish­ing a monopoly on first-half points. 
Head Raven cheerleader/player Corey Calabrese urged her team to continue to "be aggressive, be be aggressive," while leading by example with her pavement­pounding hustle. 
As a result of their tenacity, the Ravens received a scare when Lesley Greene tumbled to the blacktop, knocked her head against the hard surface and was forced to sit out the rest of the game. 
Hammes graciously sent off one of its own players in a show of altruism comparable to the Bookstore's Student Appreciation Sale -befitting in a friendly game that heard almost as many apolo­gies as renditions of Gavin DeGraw's "I Don't Want To Be," which blared out of iPod speakers stuck on repeat for the entire game. 
Regardless, the Poe-etically named Ravens, inspired by their "lost Lenore," elevated their game and clawed their way to a 7-6 run to make it 20-8 on the wings of Mark "Romeo Casanova" Venner's five points. But Kroll clipped their comeback by sinking Hammes' decisive 21st point. 
Scored the Ravens, nevermore. "We made a valiant effort in the comeback," Casanova said. 
Hammes profited from superior athleticism, even though it was every player's first Bookstore experience. 
"I like the carnival aspect of it­dressing up in funny costumes in the early rounds," Kroll said. "But as the tournament goes on, we're looking forward to good competi­tion." 
Kroll said they hope to match the run made by a Bookstore employee team several years ago and protect their home court by making it to the round of 64. 
Until then, Hammes, ever gam­ing, still is claiming, still is claim­ing the pallid court of concrete just outside the Bookstore doors. 
B3 Bailers 21, Baller-inas 17 
The Porn Squad has spirit yes they do, they got spirit and tutus, too. But both flair and style could not impede the B3 Bailers' raw ability to make an orange, leather ball go through an iron circle, and fiye Porn Squad stars under the name the Baller-inas could not stop the all-male Bailers as the "march of the boys" continued with a 21-17 victory Saturday. 
The Bailers, led by Art Shelly's three early buckets, stormed out to an 8-0 lead against the Baller­inas. But the Baller-inas eventual­ly adapted their hardwood moves to the outdoor surface, as their first basket by point guard Siobhan Lezynski sparked a 4-0 run, leading one baffled Ballerina to chide, "You guys only have eight!" 
After taking a seemingly com­fortable 13-6 lead, the Bailers instituted the "no dribble offense" to try to slow the tempo, but junior Lindsey Ball used a slightly modi­fied pirouette to boogie the ball handler into disarray. 
With her team down 17-10, sen­ior Kelli Delay led a -true to her name -late Baller-ina run, scor­ing a team-high six points and prompting Ball to declare her "MVP, or whatever they call it in basketball!" 
Blair Minarik eventually turned near-makes into successful field goals, and Kristen Forney's jumper from the block brought the count to 20-17. 
But the Bailers finally made a shot from behind their self­imposed boundary -the three­point line -to end a game length­ened by the Bailers' insistence on alley-oops and chivalric refusal to rebound. 
One spectator -speaking on the condition of anonymity -sug­gested the Bailers lengthened the game because it was the only time they'd ever been around that many pretty girls at once. 
Despite Balls' visionary defen­sive strategy, the Baller-ina's zone defense's inability to stop the Bailers' attack proved fatal. 
"We tried to find the zone, but we couldn't find it," Baller-ina captain Adrienne Larson said. 
But after the loss, the Baller-inas held their heads high, proud of their effort. 
"People said I was a ball hog, but I wasn't," Lezynski said. "I assisted a lot. I made my family proud." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick and Tim Dougherty at jfitzpa5@nd.edu and tdougher@nd.edu 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 

Blue Barracudas stop cinderella tean1' s run 
By GREG ARBOGAST and 
JOE QUINN 
Spores Writers 

We Always Make it to Oregon Before You's cinderella run came to a screeching halt Sunday as it fell to the Blue Barracudas 21-3. 
We Always Make it to Oregon Before You (Oregon) had the look of an underdog as the squad appeared to have two pioneer women, one cowgirl and an ox to go along with its one actual bas­ketball player. 
"I think we're like George Mason," Oregon coaches Meghan Whealan and Corinne Viglietta said. "We came out of nowhere and surprised a lot of people with a win in our first game." 
But the Blue Barracudas were in no mood to. let their opponent advance further in the tourna­ment. The Blue Barracudas were led by their duo from Keenan room 414, Evan Sharpley and Pat Sceehan. Employing the "cherry­picker" style offense, Sharpley and Sceehan accounted for 19 of the team's 21 points. 
After reflecting on his team's accomplishment of beating the so­called "George Mason" of this year's tournament, Barracuda coach Pat Ryan saw good things in his team's future. 
"I guess that makes us like Florida, because we like to stomp on Cinderella," Ryan said. ''I'd also like to take this opportunity to thank our team's sponsor, Speaker City, for their support as well as all their quality products." 
Los Pantelones Del Cristo 21, Mama's Boys 17 
In a game where seven turnovers were committed before the first basket, Los Pantelones Del Cristo won a war of attrition over the Mama's Boys Saturday. 
The game lasted just over an . hour and tested each team's stam­ina. 
"That was the longest game of my life," Los Pantelones Del Cristo player Joe Blakely said. 
Despite the duration of the game, the two teams played each other very closely. Neither team led by more than four points; and the game featured six ties and three lead changes. 
Andrew Winslow hit a jump shot to tie the game at 14-14, but that was as close as the Mama's Boys would get. 
Nick Catella ignited Los Pantelones del Cristo's offense all day (eight points) despite his team's even scoring distribution. When he wasn:t scoring, he was creating offensive opportunities for his teammates. 
"We really executed our game plan today, which was to draw the game out as long as possible and wear our opponents down," Catella said. 
The Saints of Fort Washington 21, Age Before Beauty 9 
The Saints of Fort Washington, equipped with trash bags for jer­seys, used their youth and athleti­cism to outlast the older, wiser but considerably more "aerodynamic" counterpart, Age Before Beauty Saturday. 
Both squads struggled to find their rhythm early in the game as both teams -after making an early shot -went scoreless on their next five possessions. After a quick steal and lay-up by Saints -· captain Nick Trapp, the Saints offense started to click. 
Leading 11-5 at half time, the Saints continued to stay hot while the members of Age Before Beauty could find no room on the offensive side of the ball, starting out 0-of-10 in the second half. 
"It was hard for us," Age cap­tain Dillon Murphy said. "None of the guys have played a lot since we retired from professional ball, and it showed this afternoon." 
The Saints continued to use a seemingly unstoppable offense and a defense with few holes to cruise to a 21-9 victory. 
"I think it was our pre-game warm-up and the benefit of hav­ing an excellent captain allowed us to prevail today," Trapp said. 
No Rudy No Problem 21, Point Shavers3 
When No Rudy No Problem took on the Point Shavers Saturday afternoon, the game was over before it started. The more athletic, experienced and talented No Rudy No Problem defeated the Point Shavers in a rout. 
No Rudy started the scoring early and never really stopped. They quickly opened up a com­manding lead, and it was clear the Point Shavers were no match for them. Unable to do anything on the offensive side of the ball, the Point Shavers were forced to take ill-advised three-point shots that rarely came close to going in. 
On the other end of the court, No Rudy No Problem toyed with the smaller Point Shavers en route to an 11-0 half time lead. Inside or outside, No Rudy No Problem sim­ply could not be stopped. 
"We're very underrated," No Rudy No Problem captain Trey Patrick said. "I think we showed that today." 
Contact Greg Arbogast and Joe Quinn at garbogas@nd.edu and jquinn6@nd.edu 

OTRE o:FTBALL 
TJ·It.JI~S;; APR~ 13
Tt.JI~S. APit 11 
\fS.. DEPAlJ1".
vs. BA1.1. S"IJ\·rt: 
D()t'l'll'' ·······•;;,Hf•' fl. F)l'"JJ '"" ·4·"0·0I'M'.
...... . t ,.. :~ · . · .~·l'\ J.. I "' '\ . . " · . · . . ,,
5:00PM ... lvv F1t:Lt> 
SOPII07\•101U: i\Nn JUNlOR ltl\J)I"'J(·; C/\Hlt~ 'I'() Tllr ' li).;;:'gf'i .. ,.. 20·0'' 1'"·""f"o ···'rj. 1"' 
.. 
r ,· ,· 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 10, 2006 



Duke 
continued from page 24 
Waagbo responded with two goals to tie the game at 3-3. 
During the rest of the l'irst half, the Irish held the Blue Devils to one goal, while net­ting three more of their own. Sophomore attack Heather F11rguson put the Irish in front, beating Duke goalie Mngan Huether with just under 15 minutes remaining in the first half. 
After Duke's Waagbo knot­ted tlw seore at 4-4 on a free position shot four minutes later, Ferguson struek again, tallying her seeond goal of the afternoon. 
The Irish advantage grew to a pair with six minutes remaining in the first half when Irish standout attack Crysti Foote picked up her seeond of four goals. 
The Irish went into halftime eonfident with a 6-4 lead ­thn first time during the 2006 season that Duke has trailed at halftime. 
While Notre Dame seemed poised to upset the favored Blue Devils on their own turf, the second half wasn't nearly as kind to the Irish. 
Duke didn't waste much time getting back into the eontest, as only 10 seconds into the second half, Duke midfielder Carolyn Davis notched a breakaway, unas­sisted goal. Caroline Cryer continued Duke's offensive assault with a goal 34 seconds later. 
Notre Dame quickly regained the lead with two 

goals by freshman midfielder .Jill Byers and Foote, respec­tively. 
During the latter part of the second half, the Blue Devil defense rose to the challenge presented by the talented Notre Dame attack. 
For the next 12 minutes, Duke's defenders kept the Irish off the scoreboard. In the meantime, effective offen­sive play on the Blue Devil's part led to a 5-0 run, result­ing in an 11-8 lead. 
While Foote and freshman midfielder Byers were able to tally a goal a piece in the closing minutes of the game, the Irish's late-game drive was too late, and the Blue Devils came away with a win. 
"Duke just happened to be the team up by one goal when the time ran out," Byers said. "I thought we were very well prepared for the game, and it just didn't work out the way we wanted it to." 
In both of its losses this sea­son, Notre Dame has fallen to a team ranked No. 4 or better. Considering the Irish only won three games last season, the pair of losses to top­ranked opponents through 12 games is a marked improve­ment. 
Irish goalie Carol Dixon recorded a career-high 18 saves in the loss. Foote added to her total for the year with four more goals. 
Foote's four tallies on Wednesday against Ohio State gave her 182 goals, making her Notre Dame's all-time leading scorer. 
Contact Chris Williams at 
cwillill@nd.edu 
after struggling early, but that's 
not Jell'. He just keeps battling." Offensively, the Irish banged continued from page 24 out 12 hits, including three by 
Cooper, four by Lilley and three ing back to March 25 against by leftflelder Matt Bransfield. Georgetown. Notre Dame freshman reliever 
"I kept telling people not to Kyle Weiland earned his ninth panic early in the season, save of the year, tying the school because the record for first­more we play, year pitchers set 

Sweep 
"There are some

the better we by Aaron Heilman play," Mainieri things I need to in 1998. said. "We always 
correct, but it 

play our best Notre Dame 10
shouldn't be too

baseball in April South Florida 4 
and May." hard to fix them. " The Irish Cooper credit­pounded out a ed the improve­season-high 17
Jeff Samardzija 

ment partially to hits, including six 
Irish pitcher

better weather in combined from 
South Bend. 
"Early on we spent a lot of time indoors," the senior said. "Now we get to play outside every day, and we're hitting our stride." 
Notre Dame 9, South Florida 6 
Notre Dame right-hander Jeff Samardzija struggled early Friday, allowing three runs in the bottom of the first, but recovered to pitch 5 and 2/3 innings, allowing six runs on six hits and picking up the win. 
"I have to go back to funda­mentals during the week," Samardzija said of his perform­ance. "There are some things I need to correct, but it shouldn't be too hard to fix them." 
Mainieri said he had confi­dence in Samardzija, who also struggled early in his last start on March 29 against Pittsburgh. 
"By some people's standards, they might see that as strug­gling, but I see it as just him set­tling down," Mainieri said. "A lesser person might give up 

Cooper and Lilley to put the Bulls away early Saturday. 
Notre Dame scored seven runs in the fifth to take a 9-1 lead and put the game out of reach. The Bulls scored three in the eighth, but a run in the top of the ninth pushed the Irish lead back to six. 
Senior left-hander Tom Thornton started the game for Notre Dame, allowing just one run in six innings and earning the win. 
Mainieri started freshman Jeremy Barnes at second base, inserting regular second base­man Ross Brezovsky into the lineup at designated hitter. Barnes went 1-for-4 at the plate with a run scored and two HBis. 
"Jeremy Barnes is one of our best infielders, but Brezovsky, Lilley, and [senior shortstop Greg] Lopez are all returning players and good infielders," Mainieri said of his decision. ''I'm just trying to keep everyone fresh and healthy and give them experience so if we do have an injury, it won't hurt us as mueh." 
Notre Dame 10 
South Florida 1 
Notre Dame right-hander Jeff Manship and South Florida left­hander Davis Bilardello were locked in a pitchers dual through five innings Sunday when the Irish exploded to take a commanding lead. 
Already leading 2-1, the Irish scored five runs in the sixth and three more in the seventh to provide the final margin. Barnes, starting at shortstop with Lopez moved to designated hitter, led the Irish otTensively. He went 4-for-5 with two HBis and two runs scored. 

Manship pitched eight com­plete innings, allowing one run on four hits for his fourth win of the season. 
Notre Dame will play Oakland and Manchester Tuesday and Wednesday at home before three games with St. .John's at Frank Eck Stadium over Easter break. The Irish and Hed Storm will play a doubleheader Thursday and a game Saturday. 
"Obviously, we can't overlook our midweek opponents, because they could jump up and bite us in the butt, but St. John's will be a big series," Cooper said. "They're one of the top teams in the Big East." 
The Oakland and Manchester games will be at 5:05 p.m. The Thursday doubleheader at St. Johns will be at 12:05 p.m., and the Saturday game against the Red Storm will begin at 12:05 p.m. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

~-~-------~~--------.-f.-------------­
Monday, AprillO, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD 
ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS JUMBLE

JOCKULAR 
MIKE ARGIRION 


11\-f Wl-\{t c-rt ~ 
~I~ ~'~~hlL~l. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
EIDUG 
1 

r J rJ 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
URRJO 

j
I rI 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 


CROISSANTWORLD 
I LARREB j 
WHAT THE: HE:N­
PE:C.K~ KING
. 1 
ri

01-\ MAN, HE.R£... 
\-\ £. '{ (;JU'\S, \ ,-HAT 
www.jumble.com 
C.ONSIDE:RE:D 

'"fHOUuHT 'fOU
COMES DAVE... 
HIS WIFE:. 

MtuH""I WANNA.
•f"l-\l s (::t u 'I 15 
tYALTER j 
Now arrange the circled letters 
AWE.SOMIO.. 1-\i\..1... 
CHE.<-1<. IH \S 

to form the surprise answer, as QUI. I HAVE. A suggested by the above cartoon.
I J r I I
1:'.o A~::'fT~Ir-Jt:l 
\e:..s-r RIC:ll-11
/><.'JO\b "Do\Nu 
Ans: 

THEr I I I I JrI I I I J
AN'1 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday' I Jumbles: GRIPE BRAWL PARITY SPEEDY 
s Answer: The thief was arrested because the credit 
card was-"SWIPED" 



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Barbershop 67 Mel who played quartet at the Polo
More wet and cold, as weather 

members Grounds 36 Mine finds 68 Dumbstruck
6 Puts behind bars 38 "F~r _ a jolly 69 Like ghostly sounds
11 Maker of the 
Envoy and 39 Jubilant 70 NNW's opposite 
71 19th-century fur cabin Yukon S.U.V.'s 42 Uncle with a trade monopolist14 End of 72 Clothesline(notable time) 44 Many-stringed alternative
instrument

15 Open, as a bottle 45 Endangered cat 16 Winter peril 48 Word after rest DOWN or restricted 
1 Berates 
17 Elated 2 Actress Bening
50 Garden invader

20 Allow 3 Brunch order
52 Volley of gunfire 

21 Forest ranger? with diced
53 Cultivates land

22 Take offense at peppers, onions 
55 Small metric 

and ham23 One of 12 at weight 4 Afore Alcoholics 
57 Kojak, to friends

Anonymous 5 Talk like a 58 Home made 
madman25 Third son of 
with buffalo 

6 Paid-for trip Adam and Eve 
skin, maybe 

7 Opposite of syn. 
28 Plowmaker 
60_Paulo, 

a" bin ein John Brazil Berliner"29 Heart chambers 
62 LAX posting: 

9 Lion player in31 TV's "Star Abbr. 
'The Wizard of 33 Eros, to Romans 63 Ecstatic Oz" 10 Go 60, say, on ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE city streets 11 1948 campaign cry 
=+=+:=+::~ 12 John who won tennis's U.S. Open four times 
81!!1t-i+.::+,;:-t 13 Midpoints -::-+-:+:+:+.:i-1 18 Chicago trains ,.,.,...,::.t-:::+::+::-1 19 Cruising





'l:Sn••• 24 subatomic
-i:t-:+:::+~;:;-particle 7-t-:+-:+.:-t 26 Actor on a tour .-.~=+::'-! 27 Cattle that all 
have the same brand 
-~:::+i-+.~-:-r.:+:i:-h:iw.l 30 Curve, as the back 
WILLSHORTZ 

32 Numbers game 43 Points in the 56 Old-time with a card right direction actress West 35 Side order at 46 Cover 59 Ages and agesK.F.C. 
47 Specifically as 
61 Was in the red
37 Canine attack one likes commands 64 Lard, essentially 
49 Purina 40 Wash. neighbor competitor 65 What the "bi" in 41 Fastidious 51 One of Santa's bicycle means 
team
42 Pictures made 66 Anthem in parlors 54 Old photo color contraction 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS . 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Haley Joel Osment, 17; Mandy Moore, 21; Ryan Merriman, 22; Steven Seagal, 54 ·-< 
Happy Birthday: Stand up for what you believe in and you will get others to help you achieve your goals this year. Don't let stubbornness or emotional issues cloud your mind or slow you down. Keep tbings in perspective and don't let your victories go to your head. Your numbers are 7, 12, 19, 26, 39,42 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You may feel guilty if you have work to do and don't 
feel like doing it. Cut yourself some slack and take the day off. Aggressive action will 
bring you absolutely no satisfaction or rewards today. *** 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Slow down before you have a mishap. Keep busy by 
spending time fixing up your surroundings. The less time spent fretting over your job, 
the better. Concentrate on anything but work. *** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't get involved in a risky investment. Make sure 
everything is in order witb your personal papers. An invitation to do sometbing witb 
old friends will bring back happy memories. *** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): This can turn into a push-pull sort of day--someone 
else wants you to do one tbing, but you want to do anotber. Find a way to compromise. 
Sharing and adaptability will lead to a happy household. **** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will be on the go today; however, that may bother 
someone you have left behind. Make sure that you tbink of otbers before you go off 
on your own. A little consideration will go a long way. ** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Get out and do sometbing tbat will bring you knowledge 
or culture. You may not agree with everything you experience today, but what you 
learn will be worth it. A change of scenery will be positive. ***** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Do sometbing unique today or get involved in a social 
event that will bring you in touch with some interesting new friends. This is a great 
day for love; don't let it pass you by. Spend time with that special person. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You are probably taking on too much and feeling a 
little bogged down. Stop putting so much pressure on yourself, and figure out a way 
to get tbe help you need. Romance can come into play late in tbe day, so reserve some 
energy.*** 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will have plenty of choices today, but if you 
opt to think about work, you are likely to upset someone who wants to spend time 
witb you. Opportunities for romance will unfold through friends, relatives or neighbors. 
Use your ingenuity. *** 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): It's up to you to take charge. Stop anyone who 
wants to be negative or critical. It may be time to eliminate some. of the people in your 
life who drag you down. This is a great day to update your look. ***** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may have to watch what you say to whom today. 
The wrong information in the hands of someone who isn't looking out for your best 
interests could end up getting you into trouble. Don't be a follower. ** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Make plans to do something special with friends, 
family or people in your community. Getting out and sharing your thoughts or even 
taking a short trip will result in meeting interesting people and maybe even a romantic 
encounter. **** · 
Birthday Baby: You are creative, trendy and determined to get what you want. You are outgoing and know how to work a crowd. You have a unique way of doing things that will always attract the help you need to pursue your dreams. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip___________ ­
r~­
' 
THE OBSERVER 






PORTS

Monday, April l 0, 2006 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Tea111 shuts out visiting Marquette, DePaul 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish closed out their regular season the same way they started -with a pair of shutouts. 
No. 2 Notre Dame earned its ninth and tenth 7-0 victories with wins over DePaul and Marquette this weekend at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
Junior Christian Thompson attributed the wins to team members' dedication to each other. 
"Our team is led by a strong tradition and the best friend­ships," she said. "We have per­formed well as a team all sea­son and have not been focusing on personal achievements. [Two consecutive shutouts] was a great way to finish the regular season [heading into the Big East Tournament]." 
In their match against Marquette Sunday, the Irish managed the impressive win 

•
without their No. 1 singles and doubles player Catrina Thompson. 
"She is someone the team 
·greatly admires," freshman Katie Potts said. "So we had to really focus [against Marquette]." 
see SHUTOUTS/page 20 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Blue Devil's delig~t 
Foote continues to chase all-time marks, Irish fall to host Duke 
By CHRIS WILLIAMS Sports Writer 
In front of a crowd of 217 spectators Sunday, the No. 4 Blue Devils defeated the No. 10 Irish 11-10. With the loss, the Irish fdl to 10-2, while the Blue Devils improved to 1 1-1 on the season. 
Thn Irish took an early 3-1 lead narly in tlw cont(~St with strong and efficient offensive movement. Duke attacks Leigh Jester and Kristen 
see DUKE/page 22 

BASEBALL· 
Cooper, Lilley spark a series s-weep of Bulls 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Ediwr 
Notre Damn first baseman Craig Cooper and third baseman Brett Lilley keyed an offensive nxplosion as the Irish swept South Florida 9-6, 10-4 and 10-1 in a thren-game snries this week­end in Tampa, Florida. 
Cooper and Lilley wero a com­bined 9-for-13 at the plato, scor­ing 11 runs and striking out only once in 31 combined plate appearances. 
Notre Dame coaeh Paul Mainieri also praised Lilley's strong play in the field. 
"Lilley was unbnlievable," Mainieri said. "Obviously he hit well, but he also made three div­ing eatehes. I think they would have been on ESPN's Web Gems." 
Cooper, who has batted at the top of the order most of the year, raised his batting average to a team-leading .429 for the season. 
"lie's been a great lead-off hit­ter for us, just like I envisioned he would be," Mainieri said. 
As a team, Notre Dame batted .409 and got 49 hits in the series. The Bulls, who dropped to 14-19 overall at 5-7 in the Big East, hit only .231. 
The Irish, who started the sea­son 2-5, are now 22-8 overall (8­1 in the Big East). Their league record sits them at the top of the Big East standings in a first-place tie with St. John's. 
Notre Dame is also in the midst of a 12-game winning streak dat­
see SWEEPIpage 22 



•
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
MEN'S TENNIS 


Irish rally to defeat SMU, 5-2 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
Saturday was more of the same for No. 17 Notre Dame as it maintained its perfect home record with a 5-2 win 
over  Southern  Methodist  
University.  
Notre  Dame  took  five  

straight points falling behind 2-0, and improved to 14-7 with the victory. 
"We expected a tough match," Notre Dame coach Bobby Bayliss said. "It was a tough match. We were able to win the dose matches and that was the difference." 
The team has struggled in doubles this season, and los­ing Ryan Keckley -the team's best doubles player­to illness made it tougher. 
"We've kind of done a full court press as far as our dou­bles lately, evaluating where we are, and we're not wor­ried as much about the com­binations," Bayliss said. "It's about everyone developing better skills." 
Notre Dame junior Barry King and senior Eric Langenkamp won 8-4 at first 
see SMU/page 20 

Team Vinny wins easily 
Team 75, B 3 Bailers also win their games 
By JAY FITZPATRICK and 
TIM DOUGHERTY 
Sports Writers 
Despite a tough performance by captain Paul Brutoco, Ridiculousness-ness could not overcome Team Vmny's height and strength advantages, falling hard 21-8 Sunday. 
Team Vinny came into the game looking to spread the offense and play good team basketball. They accomplished that goal as all five players contributed to the win on offense. 
"We've been practicing a lot 
see VINNYIpage 21 


MEN'S LACROSSE 
TRACK 
SMC SOFTBALl 
NO SOFTBALL 

NO WOMEN'S GOLF 
MEN'S GOLF 
Notre Dame recorded 

The Irish were forced 
Freshman Josh
Notre Dame 9 
Notre Dame 14
Saint Marl's 1 
seven victories and five 

to withdraw from the 
Sandman and junior
Butler 8 
Rockford 
Pittsburgh 4 
more athletes qualified 

James Madison 
Cole Isban paced Notre
After falling to 
Senior Meagan
for the Big East 

Inviational when their 
Dame as the Irish 

-
The No. 8 Irish 
Rockford 3-0 in the first 
Ruthrauff broke a Notre 
Championships at the 

flight out of Chicago 
finished third in the 12­

knocked off the 
game of a doubleheader, 
Dame retord with three 
Miami-Ohio Invitational 

Friday night was 
team Boilermaker Invite 

Bulldogs in their GWLL 
the Belles rebounded 
home runs and seven RBI 
Saturday. 

canceled. 
this weekend. 
opener Saturday. 
Sunday to win game two. 
in the victory Sunday. 

page 19 
page 18
page 18 
page 16 

page 14 
page 14 





