
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 32 THURSDAY, OCTOBERS. 2006 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Liquor law violations increase 
By EILEEN DUFFY Assistant News Editor 
While Notre Dame Security/Police's (NDSP) annual report shows a major drop in larceny, the findings released last Friday point to steady increases in liquor law violations and non­forcible burglaries. 
In an e-mail sent Friday, NDSP urged the campus community to read its Safety Brochure, which includes security and safety informa­tion as well as crime statis­tics for the years 2003-2005. 
The report, which is required to be presented to the public under the federal Jeanne Clery act, presents 
STUDENT SENATE 
data from each of the years 
in the areas of burglary, lar­
ceny, sex offenses and drug 
and liquor law violations, 
among other crimes. 
Crimes are classified into 
geographic areas: campus 
property (including residence 
halls). public property and 
non-campus property -that 
is, University-owned proper­
ty outside of the main cam­
pus, NDSP Associate Director 
Phillip Johnson said. 
Burglary is a crime that plagues the Notre Dame community more and more each year: 49 reported being burgled in 2003, 62 in 2004 and 87 in 2005. Non-forcible .burglaries continually make 
see NDSP/page 8 

Fair Trade coffee resolution passed 
Food Services-and there's no guarantee that it will be -stu­dents could face a one or two cent increase in the price they pay for coffee, according to information from Indianapolis­based Better Beans for llie. The potential price increase at Notre Dame is hard to predict, Nijak said, since the University has not disclosed how much it cur­rently pays for coffee. 
The resolution, which passed 22-2, also calls for Food Services to make "education material" available wherever coffee is served to help students "understand the value of pur­chasing Fair Trade products." 
"Our goal is not just to have all students drinking Fair Trade on campus," Plamoottil said. 
see SENATE/page 9 

Scholar's visa again denied 
After year ofwaiting, 
U.S. bans former ND hire Tariq Ramadan 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
Prominent Muslim scholar Tariq Ramadan, hired by Notre Dame in 2004 but unable to teach after his visa was revoked a few months later, 
has once again been b a n n e d from enter­ing the country. 
Hamadan had been "providing material
Ramadan 
support to a 

terrorist organization," said Laura Tischler, spokesperson for the 
U.S. Bureau of Consular Affairs. 
Tischler would not describe the support or organization in question, simply citing Section 212 (a)(3)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Aet, a law that included tighter immigration restrictions under the post-Sept. 11 USA Patriot Act. 
However. Ramadan -who was offered a tenured position by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies in spring 2004 as an Islamic stud­ies professor -explained the contents of the letter he received from the State Department on Sept. 21 through a piece that appeared 
see RAMADAN/page 6 


Author addresses anitnal rights 
National vegetarian advocate urges students to take action 
By STEVE KERINS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students aware of animal cruelty issues associ­ated with factory farms and slaughterhouses have adopted a meat-free diet -and a national vegetarian advocate heightened that resolve Wednesday. 
Arthur Poletti, author of "God Does Not Eat Meat," urged concerned students to take advantage of opportuni­ties to educate the public if they wish to change people's minds. 
Poletti -whose lecture was 
see ACTIVIST/page 8 



Students to discuss Facebook with BOT 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL 
News Writer 
As checking Facebook.com has evolved into a daily ritual for college students every­where, Notre Dame's student government leaders will dis­cuss the growth of technology and virtual interaction at today's University Board of Trustees meetings. 
The group's presentation, "Technology and Social Networking," will focus mainly on Facebook.com -the popu­lar social networking site that the Board has expressed inter­est in better understanding, student body president Lizzi Shappell said. 

Students traditionally present to the Student Affairs commit­tee during each of the Board of Trustees' three annual meet­ings. The fall presentation, Shappell said, is designed to involve more of the student body than just the top three leaders -herself, student body vice president Bill Andrichik and chief executive officer Liz Brown. 
To complete the meeting's student panel, freshman Kate McClelland, sophomore Glenn Water and senior Sheldon Dutes will sit alongside Shappell, Andrichik and Brown 
see BOTIpage 4 


By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 
Backing a renewed interest in the plight of marginalized work­ers, the Student Senate passed a resolution Wednesday recom­mending Notre Dame Food Services serve only Fair Trade coffee in all of its non-franchised operations. 
Currently, Fair Trade coffee is only available at select locations on campus. 
Social Concerns committee chair Sheena Plamoottil pre­sented the resolution with Gary Nijak and Chris Morrissey of Amnesty International, a Notre Dame human rights group that has made Fair Trade coffee its top priority this year. 
If the resolution is pursued by 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, October 5, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Solo cups, 
parades and 
dryer fires 
When I signed the lease for my house on St. Pete's Street, I wasn't aware of what I was getting myself into. 
I knew that I was somewhat obligat­ed to host PigTostal in my backyard, walk to Corby's on Tuesday nights Rosemary and make friends 
Walsh 
with the occasion­
al townies in the neighborhood. 

Ad Design
What I was not 
aware of was all 
of the insanity that 
comes with life as 
an off-campus senior. 

In the first seven weeks of living off­campus, I feel as though I could write a book on the happenings that I have encountered. But instead, I am going to give you the sure-tell signs that let you know you are an off-campus senior. 
You know you are an off-campus sen­ior when you have Solo cups in your front yard on a regular basis. 
You know you are an off-campus sen­ior when you wake up to firefighters outside your house extinguishing your neighbors clothes dryer fire. 
You know you are an off-campus sen­ior when your car gets broken into. 
You know you are an off-campus sen­ior when you are on a first name basis with the local cops. 
You know you are an off-campus sen­ior when you wake up to a man digging through your garbage and later see him riding off on his bike with a bag full of your trash. 
You know you are an ofl"-campus sen­ior when you are on a first name basis with the employees at the Family Dollar and invite them to your parties. No, he did not come. 
You know you are an off-campus sen­ior when you start tailgating on non­football weekends. 
You know you are an off-campus sen­ior when you form a parade with your neighbors and walk to the stadium for the game. 
You know you are an off-campus sen­ior when several months after your 21st and three official forms of identifi­cation later you are denied admittance into the fine establishment that is Finnegan's. 
You know you are an off-campus sen­ior when you have the South Bend Police Department on speed dial. For non-emergencies, please call574-235­9201. Ask for Wanda. 
You know you're an off-campus sen­ior when you notice you are losing weight because there is not a frozen yogurt machine at your dispense. 
You know you are an off-campus sen­ior when an intoxicated neighbor shat­ters his front door window in order to use the restroom. Don't worry; they patched the missing window with a Lindsay Lohan poster. 
And last but not least, you know you are an off-campus senior when your life is everything you thought it would never be, but you love every minute of it anyway. 
Contact Rosemary Walsh at rwalshO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a reporting error in the Oct. 4 story "OIT power interruption disrupts services," Gordon Wtshon was incorrectly identified as the Assisrant Vice President ofthe Office ofInfOrmation Technologies. He is, in fucr, the Associate Provost fur the Office of Information Technologies. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE MOST COMMON TERM YOU SEARCH ON "GOGGLE"? 


Adrienne Paulson  Kelli Ripp  Marissa Collard  
freshman LeMans  freshman Holy Cross  freshman PW  
"Everclear, because they are such a great band!"  "Flamingos, because they are what they eat!"  "Fall, because ofthe leaves andfootball season."  


because I'm an English major." 

Mary Gross Sean Gramme! Tony Salpino 
freshman freshman junior 
Holy Cross Stanford Keough 
"Quantum "Kelli Ripp, "My name, so physics, because she is I can keep track 

Controversial tree gets police protection 
JAKARTA, Indonesia ­Indonesian police have slapped a cordon around a huge landmark banyan tree in the capital after members of a Muslim youth group attacked it to prove it had no special mystical powers. 
The governor of Jakarta filed a complaint with police after youths hacked and dam­aged the 100-year-old banyan, on a traffic island in the capital, in a bid to dispel rumors the tree harbored special powers. 
"The city government tried hard not to cut the tree when we built a new bus lane. It is 
TODAY 
c::: 
1.&.1 
::z: 
t: 
1.&.1 
~ 
_. 

more than 100 years old and it is important for the envi­ronment," said Susie Marsitawati of Jakarta's park agency. 
Counselor claims to have set new pi record 
TOKYO, Japan -A Japanese mental health coun­selor recited pi to 100,000 decimal places from memory on Wednesday, setting what he claims to be a new world record. 
Akira Haraguchi, 60, need­ed more than 16 hours to recite the number to 100,000 decimal places, breaking his personal best of 83,431 digits set in 1995, his office said 
TONIGHT FRIDAY 



Wednesday. He made the 

attempt at a public hall in Kisarazu, Japan, just east of Tokyo. 
Pi is a physical constant defined as the ratio of a cir­cle's circumference to its diameter. 

It is usually written in math textbooks to a maximum of three decimal places as 
3.141. But there is no theoret­ical limit to the number of decimal places it holds. The number, which has fascinated scientists for centuries, appears in the proofs of many equations defining the uni­verse. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
SATURDAY 
~ 
~ 
ct 
(.) 

...I 0 HIGH 63 HIGH 50 HIGH 68 HIGH 74 LOW 43 LOW 43 LOW 45 LOW 54 

crazy. ofall my recent accomplishments." 
IN BRIEF 
"How the Law of War is Pro­Life" lecture will take place today at noon in Room 120 of the Notre Dame Law School. 
The groundbreaking for the new academic building at Saint Mary's will take place today at 
4:30 p.m. at the corner of Brother Andre Drive and Madeleva Drive. 
"The Feminization of Poverty" lecture will take place tonight at 7 in 101 DeBartolo Hall. 
AcoustiCafe will be tonight from 10 to midnight in the base­ment of LaFortune. 
Lewis Hall will host a blood drive from 10:00 a.m. to 4:30 
p.m. today in the party room of Lewis. The blood will support the South Bend Medical Foundation Central Blood Bank. 
The "New Directions in the Comparative Study of Genocide" lecture will take place today at 4:15 p.m. in C-103 Hesburgh Center. 
Ballroom Dance Club will meet tonight from 7 to 8 and every Thursday in Rockne room 
205. Cost is $4 per night or $35 for an entire semester. 
Diana Williams of Harvard University will speak at the "Marriage of Conscience" semi­nar today at 4:15 p.m. in 1140 Planner Hall. 
Notre Dame volleyball will take on Marquette at 4 p.m. Friday in the Joyce Center arena. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

~ 


HIGH 74 HIGH 66 LOW . 52 LOW 46 
Atlanta 89 I 60 Bos~on 62 I ~2 Chicago 57 I ?1 Denver 74 I 45 Houston 93 I 69 Los Angeles 70 I 56 Minneapolis 65 140 New York 65 I 48 Philadelphia 67 I 51 Phoemx 97 I 67 Seattle 65 I 46 St. Louis 67 I 51Tampa 90 169 Washington 66 151 
Thursday, October 5, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Kellogg Institute funds internship grants 
Students gain hands-on experience in international business, politics and healthcare through summer programs 
By EVA BINDA News Writer  interest in Latin America. Internship locations are as far as away as Peru, Uganda  She said the funding, which comes primarily from the Kellogg Institute itself,  countries. Many of the internships -especially those abroad -require  summer internships. The ELA Fellowships allow students to create their own  
and Argentina and  as  near  allows students to  partici­ knowledge  of Spanish  or  projects or  find  internships,  
Some students choose  to  as  Washington,  D.C.  and  pate who would not be able  Portuguese. The degree of  which the Institute will then  
relax  on  the beach over the  Minneapolis. The internships  to  otherwise because they  proficiency needed varies  provide  up  to  $4,000  for  
summer.  while others travel  also  vary  in  tasks  from  need to earn money over the  with the internship.  them to pursue. According to  
to  distant locales for fun.  researching the reintegra­ summer.  Oftentimes  the  Senior Jack Calcutt, who  the Kellogg Institute Web  
Students participating in the  tion  of  child  soldiers  in  funding is enough for  stu­ interned in  Uganda,  said  site,  these  projects  may  
Kellogg  Institute  for  Ghana to working in hospi­ dents to  have  some  money  Africa is  a  good choice for  include research, nonprofit  
International  Studies  tals  in  the  Dominican  left  over  at the end of their  those who  cannot fulfill  a  work, study  or  other activi­ 
Summer Internships, howev­ Republic  to  exploring the  internship.  language requirement.  ties that will increase their  
er,  spend their  U.S.  export  "It's  more  than enough to  During the period of the  commitment to  and knowl­ 
free  months  market  in  cover  everything you could  internship, students typically  edge of the region.  
traveling both  Argentina.  dream of using in Buenos  live  with host families in  Currently, these fellowships  
domestically  This  wide  Aires," said  their respec­ are  only available  to  stu­ 
and interna­tionally to gain hands-on expe­rience in busi­nesses, govern­ment agencies, hospitals, poli­cy institutes and other organizations. These students come from all  "You can't get a better cultural experience than living with a family. " Nicole Steele senior  spectrum allows students of all different majors to find something that sparks their interest, according to Holly Rivers, academic coor­dinator at the Kellogg  senior Dan McLaughlin, who partici­pated in a Kellogg internship at the Foreign Commercial Service in Argentina. The num­ber of stu­ "My internship taught me to dream. I met highly motivated students from all over and built relationships in Peru with people who are amazing."  tive coun­tries. "You can't get a better cultural experience than living with a fami­ly," said sen­ior Nicole Steele, who also worked  dents enrolled in the Latin American studies program. Rivers said although there is talk of expanding the pro­gram to African and Asian studies students, currently there is no funding. The application deadline for Kellogg summer intern­ships is Nov. 10 and the deadline for ELA Fellowships is March 2.  
different backgrounds and majors, but share an interest in gaining the skills to make  Institute. Although most stu­dents come from the College of Arts and Letters, she said,  dents who participate in the pro­ Annie Brusky senior  in Uganda. Although freshmen  Rivers, as well as former interns, encouraged interest­ed students to apply for what  
a  difference in  a  globalized  there  are  opportunities for  gram varies  and  sopho­ would he said would be  a  
world.  students interested in busi­ year to year,  mores  can  life-changing experience.  
Junior  Dmitri  Martinez  ness.  medicine and science.  with  about  apply for the  "My internship taught me  
said he plans on applying for  In the past, there have been  30  partici­ program,  to dream. I met highly moti­ 
a  Kellogg internship for the  opportunities  for  pating last year, Rivers said.  priority is given to juniors,  vated students from all  over  
"opportunity to work  as  an  Architecture  students,  Rivers said the internships  Rivers said. She encouraged  and built relationships in  
undergraduate in an interna­ though there  are  none  this  are intended to provide stu­ younger students to consider  Peru with people who  are  
tional setting". Although not  year.  dents with a  chance for cul­ the  Experiencing  Latin  amazing," said senior Annie  
a  Latin American studies  Students work for  eight  tural immersion and improv­ America (ELA) Fellowships,  Brusky. "It changed me."  
major  - for whom most of  weeks and receive funding to  ing their foreign language  which are open only to fresh­ 
the internship is tailored  - cover transportation and liv­ skills while working with  men  and sophomores and  Contact Eva Binda at  
Martinez expressed a  strong  ing expenses, Rivers said.  natives  of their  assigned  are less competitive than the  jbinda@nd.edu  




Abit ofIreland in your own backyard. 


, 
s 

Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the -fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And they're open seven nights a week, too. 
(Waterford Estates Lcx3ge has hotel rooms at reasonable rates tor upcoming N D football weekends. Even lower rates for North Carolina and Army.) 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 5, 2006 
The Board committee chair ing student usage of the sites "feeds" it to all of a user's never seen it," Shappell said. and the vice president for and whether or not Facebook is friends. Along with the expan­As for her administration,
BOT 
continued from page 1 
to serve as additional voices of the student body. 
While last year, Shappell and then-student body president Dave Baron presented their fall Board of Trustees presentation as a report -the topic being the relationship between the Notre Dame and South Bend communities -this year's presentation takes the form of a 10-minute introduction by Kathy Brannack, assistant director of the Office of Residence Life and Housing, followed by a question and answer session within the stu­dent panel. 

Student Affairs choose the topic and dictate the format for the fall meeting, Shappell said. 
"Bill and I discussed options with [Vice President for Student Affairs] Father [Mark] Poorman to make sure aspects each group wanted to discuss were included," Shappell said. 
"I think [the Board's] interest is because social networking has taken off," Shappell said. "Between MySpace and Facebook, social networking is a new way people are connect­ing, including many Notre Dame students and alums." 
Some aspects to be covered include a general education on the site's format and capabili­ties, a discussion about increas­just a fad or a staple of modern socialization, Shappell said. 
The Board is interested in both the positive social benefits of the site -such as the increased visibility for clubs on campus and the potential for alumni to stay in touch -and the potentially harmful draw­backs, such as future employ­ers' investigation of an appli­cant's Facebook profile, Shappell said. 
Additional topics to be dis­cussed include the average stu­dent usage and the response to the newly introduced "mini feed" feature, Shappell said. 
This development -added to the site on Sept. 5 -detects a user's profile changes and sion of Facebook into high schools and the general public, the new feature has brought the social networking site to an even greater level of connect­edness. 

"Now a student can create a group and a new person can join every few seconds. Within a day thousands of people have joined," Shappell said. 
The vast possibilities these features have created will be an integral part of today's dis­cussion, she said. 
"It should be an interesting conversation, to see the differ­ent reaction from young Board members who may use Facebook themselves compared to older alumni who may have Shappell looks to gain perspec­tive through discussion of important issues with Notre Dame's major decision makers. 
"I think any time we talk with the Board it's a productive one because we have a conversa­tion about the state of student life at Notre Dame and get reflections from them on the topics we are discussing," Shappell said. "It's interesting to hear their perspectives both as some of the major decision makers of our University and also as alumni who reflect on their time here versus our times." 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 

Drive aids 
regional hospitals 
By DANA GUSKY 
News Writer 
Members of the Notre Dame community may save hundreds of lives today simply through the donation of their blood. 
The Lewis Blood Drive will take place in the hall's basement from 10 a.m. to 4:30p.m. today, and all the blood will be donated to the South Bend Medical Foundation. 
"All of the blood stays local which is really exciting," said event organizer Leah Miller. 
Miller is organizing the event with fellow Lewis Hall service coordinators sophomore Alice Shepherd and sophomore Alice Griesemer. 
Just one pint of blood can save three to four people's lives, and the drive has already filled all avail­able appointments with donors. 
The coordinators gave Lewis residents the priority donor spots and then began a campus-wide search for donors, Miller said. 
Miller said this is her lOth time donating blood. One of her main reasons for starting the drive is to make more people comfortable donating. 
"I want people to get over their fear," Miller said, emphasizing that it only takes about 10 minutes of discomfort to save several lives. 
Lewis rector Linda Cirillo said she sees the blood drive as another way to fulfill the message of Christ. 
"It is one way of giving ourselves to our brothers and sisters," Cirillo said. 
Although all appointments are filled, the blood drive accepts walk­ins and the coordinators hope more people donate than just those who signed up, Miller said. 
The best time to come in without an appointment is before and after lunchtime, Miller said. 
If someone cannot come during the regular drive hours, Miller said students could come after the drive's official hours because the nurses will probably be there until 6p.m. 
The drive particularly wants donors with type 0 negative blood because it is the universal blood type that can be transfused to vir­tually anyone, Miller said. 
Ifsomeone is a bit too squeamish to donate, T-shirts will also be sold at the blood drive to benefit the New Orleans service project that sends students to New Orleans to help with Hurricane Katrina relief over tall break. 
Con~ct Dana Gusky at dgusky@nd.edu 
1111

N st pm y unow. 
We want you to succeed. and all the signs say GO. That's why we've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. At Ernst &Young, we offer award-winning learning tools and arange of experiences, so that you keep moving ahead-from your very first day. So visit us on campus, or at ey.comjusjcareers. 
FORTUNE"' 

100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~ 








ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 5, 2006 CoMPILED FR0,\1 THE OBSERVERS WlRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iran persists in enriching uranium 
HASHTGERD, Iran -President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad warned Wednesday that sanc­tions will not stop Iran from enriching urani­um after a European negotiator conceded "endless hours" of talks had made little progress and suggested the dispute could wind up at the U.N. soon. 
The talks had been seen as a last-ditch attempt to avoid a full-blown confrontation between Iran and the U.N. Security Council after Tehran ignored an Aug. 31 deadline to suspend enrichment -a key step toward making nuclear weapons -or face punish­ment. 
The latest comments -and the view of senior U.N. diplomats who told The Associated Press on Tuesday that nearly two years of intermittent negotiations had failed -suggested an emerging consensus that the time has finally come to consider Security Council sanctions. 
Militants' email says they killed 9 
PORT HARCOURT, Nigeria -Security forces battled militants in Nigeria's oil-rich southern delta Wednesday after attacks on a convoy and a pumping station, officials said, the latest in a rash of kidnappings and other violence that has damaged the country's important petroleum industry. 
A major militant group said in an e-mail they killed nine soldiers and captured two government gunboats at the pumping station belonging to a Royal Dutch Shell PLC sub­sidiary about 25 miles west of Port Harcourt. The army gave no casualty figures and it was not possible to confirm the militants' claim. 
The group, known as MEND, said it acted defensively after being attacked by army gunboats and a helicopter gunship. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. passes North Korea warning 
WASHINGTON -The United States passed a warning to North Korea not to conduct a nuclear test, the chief U.S. envoy to stalled dis­armament talks with the communist country said Wednesday. "We are not going to live with a nuclear North Korea," he said. 
Assistant Secretary of State Christopher Hill told reporters that the U.S. has sent Pyongyang a message of "deep concern" through diplo­matic channels at the United Nations in New York. He said North Korea has yet to respond. 
Hill did not elaborate on the message, except to say the North Koreans had received it. 

Two marines enter not guilty pleas 
CAMP PENDLETON, Calif.-Two Marines accused of kidnapping and murdering a civilian man in rural Iraq entered not guilty pleas in a military court Wednesday, and a judge barred lawyers from discussing the case with the media. · 
Pfc. John J. Jodka III and Cpl. Marshall L. Magincalda are among seven Marines and one Navy corpsman charged with kidnapping and murdering 52-year-old Hashim Ibrahim Awad last April. Both face up to life in prison if con­victed. 
Jodka, 20, and Magincalda, 23, appeared in short-sleeved khaki uniforms decorated with medal ribbons, and both said little. They are accused of kidnapping, murder and other charges. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Teacher charged: sexual misconduct 
SCOTTSBURG -A high school teacher engaged in sexual misconduct with a girl who attended a church where he was a youth minister, state police said Wednesday. 
John A Watts, 27, is a teacher at Southwestern High School in Hanover and was a volunteer coach of the girl's track team at Scott County's Austin High School, where the girl was a student. 
The girl was 14 and 15 years old when the encounters occurred between 2002 and 2004 in various locations in Scott County, police said. 

Scandal rocks Hastert's support 
Aide says he notified senior staffthree years ago offanner Rep. Mark Foley's conduct 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -House Speaker Dennis Hastert's political support showed signs of cracking on Wednesday as Republicans fled an election-year scan­dal spawned by steamy computer messages from former Rep. Mark Foley to teenage male pages. 
At the same time, a con­gressional aide said in an Associated Press interview he first warned Hastert's aides more than three years ago that Foley's behavior toward pages was troublesome. That was long before GOP lead­ers acknowledged learning of the problem. 
The aide, Kirk Fordham, said he had "more than one conversation with sen­ior staff at the highest level of the House of Representatives asking them to intervene" several years ago. 
The claim drew a swift, unequivocal denial from Hastert's chief of staff. "What Kirk Fordham said did not happen," Scott Palmer said through a spokesman. 
Hastert's political diffi­culties were evident half a continent away. 
Rep. Roy Blunt of Missouri, third-ranking leader, pointedly told reporters he would have handled the matter differ­ently than the speaker, had he known of it. 
"I think I could have given some good advice here, which is, You have to be curious, you have to ask all the questions you can think of," said Blunt, a member of the leadership. "You absolutely can't decide not to look into activities because one indi­vidual's parents don't want you to." 
Republican Rep. Ron Lewis of Kentucky, in a tougher-than-expected re­election race, abruptly canceled an invitation for Hastert to join him at a fundraiser next week. 
''I'm taking the speaker's words at face value," Lewis told the AP. "I have no reason to doubt him. But until this is cleared up, I want to know the facts. If anyone in our leadership has done anything wrong, then I will be the first in line to condemn it." 


Ron Bonjean, Hastert's spokesman, said the entire issue had been referred to the House ethics commit­tee. "We fully expect that the bipartisan panel will do what it needs to do to investigate this mater and protect the integrity of the House," he added. 
House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi went one step further, saying in a state­ment that Hastert and the rest of the GOP leadership should be "immediately questioned under oath .... " 
"The children, their par­ents, the public, and our colleagues deserve answers and those who covered up Mark Foley's behavior must be held accountable," she said. 
Foley, 52, a Florida Republican, resigned last Friday after he was con­fronted with sexually explicit electronic mes­sages he had sent teenage male pages. He has since entered an alcohol rehabil-. itation facility at an undis­closed location. Through his lawyer, he has said he is gay but denied any sexu­al contact with minors. 
His abrupt departure left behind an Internet-age sex scandal that has shaken Republican confidence _ and poll numbers -little more than a month before elections at which their control of the House will be tested. 
It also plunged Hastert 
and others into an inten­sive effort to grapple with conflicting claims about what senior lawmakers knew, when they learned it and what they did about it. 
Fordham resigned Wednesday as chief of staff to Rep. Thomas Reynolds, R-N.Y., the House GOP campaign chief who says he alerted Hastert to con­cerns about Foley last spring. 
The longtime Capitol Hill aide said that more than three years ago, he repeat­edly asked GOP staffers to intervene with Foley. He 
-declined to identify them, but officials said Palmer, Hastert's chief of staff, was one of them. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to dis­cuss it. 
IRAQ 


Police unit tied to death squads 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -Iraqi authorities pulled a brigade of about 700 policemen out of service Wednesday in its biggest move ever to uproot troops linked to death squads, aiming to signal the govern­ment's seriousness in cleansing Baghdad of sectarian violence. 
The government move came amid steadily mounting violence, particularly in the capital. A U.S. military spokesman said the past week had seen the highest number of car bombs and roadside bombs in Baghdad this year. 
Four U.S. soldiers patrolling in Baghdad were killed by gunmen on Wednesday, the U.S. military said, also announcing the deaths of two other sol­diers a day earlier in Baghdad and the northern city of Kirkuk. The deaths brought to 21 the number of Americans killed in combat since Saturday. 
The suspension of the police brigade was the first time the Iraqi government has taken such dramatic action to disci­pline security forces over possible links to militiamen, though some individual soldiers have been investigated in the past. Baghdad's Sunnis widely fear the Shiite-led police, saying they are infil­trated by militias and accusing them of cooperating with death squads who snatch Sunnis and kill them. 
The brigade was responsible for a region of northeast Baghdad with a slight Shiite majority, where gunmen on Sunday kidnapped 24 workers from a frozen food factory. Hours later, the bodies of seven of the workers were found dumped in a district miles away. 
-----. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 5, 2006 
Washington Post. Palestinian pe~ple" -a dona­the charities in question pro­ment's "flimsy pretense" for The only reason the govern­tion he said he freely acknowl­vided money to Hamas," denying Ramadan's application.
Rainadan 

Ramadan said. "But my dona­"I am embarrassed that the tions were made between Bush administration abrogates December 1998 and July 2002, cherished principles such as and the United States did not free speech in a clumsy and ill­blacklist the charities until considered attempt to control 2003. How should access to a range I reasonably have of ideas and opin­known of their ions bearing on activities before the formulation of
'Jlt a minimum, we
the U.S. govern­U.S. foreign and ment itself knew?" were gratified that domestic policy," The donation, the government Appleby said in an he said, was made e-mail to The
[decided to] give a
for the same rea­Observer. son that "count­reason -whether Ramadan, who less" Europeans or not it's a reason is a native of and Americans Egypt currently
we can expect or
donate to teaching in
like, I don't know.,, 
Palestinian causes London, said he is -"not to help "increasingly con­fund terrorism, vinced" the rea­
Don Wycliff
but because I son for his visa
vice president
wanted to provide problems is 
news and information
humanitarian aid because the Bush to people who administration desperately need "doesn't care for it." my political 
When Hamadan's visa was views" ~ views that include revoked in summer 2004 for pointed criticism of the U.S. reasons not revealed by the policy in the Middle East and 
U.S. government, the University the war in Iraq. helped him reapply in October "What words do I utter and 2004. what views do I hold that are 
But he never received a dangerous to American ears, so response and reapplied for a dangerous, in fact, that I should temporary business and not be allowed to express them tourism visa on Sept. 15, 2005. on U.S. soil?" he said. 
The most recent decision, Although both Wycliff and issued by a U.S. consular offi­Appleby said the University is cer on Sept. 19, came more in the middle of a search for than a year after that reappli­Ramadan's successor as Luce cation. professor of religion, conflict 
The University is not current­and peace-building, Appleby ly pursuing Ramadan as a pro­said there is "more than one fessor, so it is not involved now way Professor Ramadan might in his attempts to get a visa, participate in the academic life Associate Vice President for of Notre Dame." News and Information Don And potentially controversial Wycliff said Wednesday. views like Ramadan's, Wycliff 
"At a minimum, we were said, are not something the gratified that the government University avoids. [decided to] give a reason -"If there's someone out there whether or not it's a reason we who's a first rate scholar, I can expect or like, I don't know Notre Dame will be inter­know," Wycliff said. ested in that person, whether 
He called the government's or not he or she is labeled con­refusal to explain why troversial by someone else," he Ramadan's visa was revoked in said. 2004 "absurd" -a situation The Observer was unable to the University grappled with reach Ramadan Thursday. for months after. 
R. Scott Appleby, director of the Kroc Institute, said he was Contact Maddie Hanna at "dismayed" by the govern-mhannal@nd.edu 
ment gave for the denial, he edged when he applied for the continued from page 1 
said, was a $940 donation he visa. made to "two humanitarian "In its letter, the U.S. organizations (a French group Embassy claims that I 'reason­
in the Oct. 1 edition of The and a Swiss group) serving the ably should have known' that 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN 



DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Fall2007, SPRING 2008, AY 2007-8 University College Dublin Trinity College 
INFORMATION MEETING with 
Kevin Whelan, Director Keough Naughton-ND Center, Dublin 
Friday, October 6, 2006 
3:30 pm 129 DeBartolo 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15,2006 FOR FALL, SPRING, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2007-8 Applications Available www/nd.edu/~intlstud 

CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 



STUDENTS 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) 

Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Andy Magee, amagee@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 

(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800; or Fr. Dick Warner, CSC, at 1-9704 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at: 
http://www.corecouncil.nd .edu/ 



-~--~-­

THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Thursday, October 5, 2006 
page 7 

Dow 
11,850.61 +123.27

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: eomposne Volume: 2,571 I 37 719 3,019,881,270 

AM£X 
NASDAQ 
NVSE. 
S&PSOO 1,}~0.2~ +16.11 NIKKEI(Tol<yo) 16.082.,55 otoo FTSE IOO(London) 5,966.50 +29.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  +2.46  +0.99  41.30  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +1.22  +0.25  20.82  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +0.40  +0.02  5.0 I  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +2.08  +0.57  27.94  
JDS UNIPHASE CP UDSU)  +2.28  +0.05  2.24  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -I . I 0  -0.051  4.565  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.42  +0.020  4.795  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.67  -0.032  4.721  
5-YEAR NOTE  -1.38  -0.063  4.495  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.73  59.41  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -14.80  566.70  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.70  89.13  
Excha  Rates  .  
YEN  117.6400  
EURO  0.7869  
POUND  0.530 I  
CANADIAN$  1.1249  

IN BRIEF 

Apple apologizes for stock practices 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -Apple Computer Inc. CEO Steve Jobs apologized Wednesday for the company's past stock-option practices after an internal investigation found accounting irregularities between 1997 and 2002 and showed Jobs was aware of some options backdating. 
The iPod and Macintosh maker said its three-month investigation also prompted the resignation of former Chief Financial Officer Fred Anderson from the company's board of directors. 
The company said Jobs knew that some grants had been given favorable dates "in a few instances," but he did not benefit from them and was not aware of the accounting implications. 
"I apologize to Apple's shareholders and employees for these problems, which hap­pened on my watch," Jobs said in a state­ment. "We will now work to resolve the remaining issues as quickly as possible and to put the proper remedial measures in place to ensure that this never happens again." 

Factory orders reflect slow economy 
WASHINGTON -In further signs of a slug­gish economy, orders to factories for manu­factured goods were weak for a second con­secutive month and service sector activity had its worst performance in more than three years. 
New orders for manufactured goods stayed basically the same in August at $403.6 billion, on the heels of 1 percent plunge in demand in July, the Commerce Department reported Wednesday. The August report showed big declines in demand for computers and com­mercial aircraft. 
Also, a gauge of activity in the service sec­tor. where most people work, fell sharply in September to 52.9, down from 57.0 a month before, according to the Institute for Supply Management. It was the poorest from the showing since April 2003 and was far below expectations. 
Both reports supported the view that the economy is continuing to slow under the impact of weaker consumer spending and a cooling housing market. 



GM decides against affiliation 
Automaker announces discarded Renault, Nissan global alliance scheme 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -After nearly 
three months of talks, 
General Motors Corp. 
announced Wednesday that 
it had discarded a scheme to 
forge a broad, global 
alliance with Renault and 
Nissan after the other two 
automakers declined to pay 
a premium f<>r reaping what 
GM said would have been a 
disproportionate share of 
the benefits. 
GM said France's Renault 
SA and Japan's Nissan 
Motor Co., which are 
already linked in an 
alliance, refused to pay a 
premium to GM for that 
imbalance. Renault-Nissan 
also wanted to acquire a sig­
nificant stake in GM _ an 
idea GM was not enthusias­
tic about, particularly with­
out payment of some kind of 
premium. Finally, the struc­
ture that Renault-Nissan 
advocated would have kept 
GM from forming joint ven­
tures with other companies, 
the U.S. company said. 
Renault-Nissan said com­
pensation would go against 
"the spirit of any successful 
alliance." 
The companies have not given details about the size of the premium or the stake under discussion. 

The idea to join the alliance was backed by bil­lionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian, who owns a 9.9 has been steadily losing After the meeting, GM offi­of the alliance." percent stake in GM. It market share to Asian cials expressed some skepti­But Wagoner stressed that fueled speculation that rivals. But last quarter, if not cism about the proposed the board voted unanimous­Kerkorian was dissatisfied for restructuring charges, alliance. Kerkorian then ly to end the talks. Tracinda with Chairman and Chief the company would have turned up the heat by is represented on the board Executive Rick Wagoner and logged a hefty profit _ proof, announcing he might by Jerome York. hoped to replace him with management says, that the increase his stake in the Wagoner also said the Renault-Nissan CEO Carlos turnaround is working. company and calling for an board sought outside finan­Ghosn, who is widely Wagoner said the board evaluation of the alliance cial advice on the proposal, admired for leading a turn­was concerned the alliance idea by independent advis­but he declined to say around at the Japanese would weigh on the ers. whether he believed that company. Wall Street automaker's turnaround Kerkorian's Tracinda satisfied Kerkorian's responded positively to the efforts. Corp. said Wednesday that it demand for an independent idea of a linkup, but many "We felt that the complexi­was disappointed. analysis. industry observers said a ties of working with three "We believe that General In their joint statement, complicated alliance could companies could slow us Motors' participation in a the three companies said distract GM from its own down," he said. global alliance with Renault they all agreed that there turnaround efforts. The announcement came and Nissan would have were would be "significant 
GM shares fell 9 cents ahead of an Oct. 15 deadline enabled GM to realize sub­aggregate synergies." Wednesday to close at that the two sides had set stantial synergies and cost "However the parties did $33.32 on the New York for evaluating the proposal savings," Tracinda spokes­not agree on either the total Stock Exchange. and a week after Wagoner woman Carrie Bloom said in amount of aggregate syner­
The world's largest and Renault-Nissan CEO a statement. "We regret that gies or the distribution of automaker lost more than Carlos Ghosn met face to the board did not obtain its those benefits," the state­$10.6 billion last year and face in Paris. own independent evaluation ment said. 

GAO: Bush to blame for logging cost 
Associated Press California in 2002, making it largest delays associated with this project 
wildfire in the lower 48 states since bears poignant witness to the need 
WASHINGTON -A government 1997. for congressional action on Greg study blamed the Bush administra­The study says the Forest Service Walden's post-catastrophic restora­tion, not lawsuits by environmental­and other agencies have spent $5 tion bill, as the president called for ists, for adding to the cost of a log­million in Los Angeles," Rey said. ging project in which the govern­The Bush administration and its The bill would order that federal ment spent $11 million to salvage Republican allies contended that forests hit by disasters larger than less than $9 million in timber from a lawsuits filed by environmentalists 1,000 acres be restored within wildfire. led to the increased costs. months, rather than years, before 
The Government Accountability Agriculture Undersecretary Mark insects and rot set in, diminishing Office, the investigative arm of Rey, who directs U.S. forest policy, the commercial value of fire-killed Congress, said the administration's said the report released Wednesday timber. decision to dramatically increase demonstrated the need for a new President Bush urged Congress to logging, coupled with the size of the law sponsored by Rep. Greg Walden, pass the bill during a visit Tuesday 
fire and the complexity of environ­R-Ore., to speed up logging of to Southern California, where a giant mental laws, led to delays. burned forests and tree planting wildfire about 50 miles northwest of 
The so-called "Biscuit fire" burned after storms and wildfires. Los Angeles was extinguished after 
almost 500,000 acres in Oregon and "The pattern of litigation-related nearly a month. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 5, 2006 
NDSP 
continued from page 1 
up the overwhelming majority of those crimes: 80 of the 87 burglaries in 2005 were non­forcible -a statistic Johnson said would be easy to change. 
"These are people that are 

age drinkers," he said. "Police exercise their best judgment 
Activist 
based on the situation at hand." 
continued from page 1 
Regardless of what the policeman chooses to do, 
sponsored by the student Johnson thinks the numbers 
group ND for Animals ­speak for NDSP's -and the 
recounted the details of his University's -firm stance on 
own switch to a vegetarian alcohol abuse. 
diet. He also presented a ser­"These numbers of liquor 
mon based on Biblical pas­
preying on stu­dents' vulnera­bilities," he said. "One of the things we know we can do is protect our property and prevent those non­forcible bur­glaries by lock­ing office doors and resi­dence halls while we're away or while we're sleep­ing." 

'These numbers of liquor arrests and referrals reaffirm our concern over the use of alcohol on campus and how it impacts the quality oflife in our community. " 
Phillip Johnson associate director Notre Dame Security Police 
arrests and 

sages which could be inter­
referrals reaf­

preted to support vegetarian­
firm our con­

ism, along with statistics on 
cern over the 

animal cruelty in factory 
use of alcohol 

farms provided by animal 
on campus and 

rights organizations. 
how it impacts 

"The reason I stopped eat­
the quality of 

ing meat isn't going to be the 
life in our 

reason you stop eating meat," 
community," 

he said. 
he said. 

Poletti said 680,000 animals 
" ... We're very 

were killed in slaughterhouses 
serious about 

each hour when he became a 
addressing 

vegetarian in 1989, compared 
issues of alco­

with more than one million 
hol abuse on 

per hour today. 
our campus." 

"I thought the cruelty was 
Larceny, 

beyond imagination," he said, 
however 

in reference to the killing of 
While non-forcible burgla­ries drive the number of bur­glaries up each year, the num­ber of forcible burglaries remained at seven from 2004 to 2005. 
"We're covering 1200 acres and over 100 buildings," Johnson said. "That doesn't mean [forcible burglaries] are acceptable at all, but it isn't a large number given the popu­lation and the geographic area that's served here." 

"NDSP plays a role in
The number problem areas 
lie discussed "I think that if ethical and practical reasons 
of liquor law maintaining campus and how best 
his intentions to Arthur Poletti vegetarian stu­to be a vegetarian," Nunez 
arrests has to deploy its 
send mailings author dents get ere­said. "In the future, I would
safety but we truly rely 
varied from resources, 
describing
on our community and
year to year, Johnson said. 
slaughterhouse 
but the num­how they choose to The group has 
conditions to each U.S. sena­
tor and urged everyone pres­
ber of liquor live." also estab­
ent to share responsibility for
law violations lished Safety 
dissemination of information. 
reported to the Beat, a pro­
Phillip Johnson 

"Notre Dame is an extreme­
Office of gram that 
Residence Life associate director sends out a 
ly prestigious university," he 
said. "Use your power, use
and 1-1 ousing Notre Dame Security Police crime preven­
(ORLH) has more than doubled since 2003, with 290 students referred to ORLH in 2005. 
Whether a student is arrest­ed or referred to ORLI-1 "depends on the circum­stances," Johnson said. 
"For example, a person might be intoxicated and transported to the hospital. We'd likely do a referral. Or last weekend during the foot­ball weekend activities, we arrested a number of under-

meaning theft not involving 
animals for meat as "mass 
unlawful entry, like stealing a 
murder." 
bike in South Quad or a back­
Poletti criticized aspects of 
pack in LaFortune, Johnson 
American culture which pro­
said -has fallen from 459 
mote cruelty to animals. 
reported cases to 365 in 2004. 
"There are 
"In that sense, we had some 
more than 25 
tion message 

your position to save those 
about every two weeks, Johnson said. That e-mail includes a map of the South Bend Police Department's crime data for off-campus students, he said. 
"This is a partnership," Johnson said. "NDSP plays a role in maintaining campus 
creatures that don't have that "I realize it's my choice to luxury." be a vegetarian, but I don't 
Danielle Nunez, president of think it's asking too much for ND for Animals, spoke about the school to provide more the connection between fight­non-meat options for all of ing animal cruelty and adopt­their students." ing a vegetarian diet. Senior Sarah Wheaton said 
"Factory farms are cruel 

"We believe that 
and irresponsi­ble," she said. adopting a vegetarian "We believe 
diet, or any step in
that adopting a 

that direction, is the 
vegetarian diet, or any best way to eliminate step in that 
unnecessary
direction, is 

suffering."
the best way to eliminate unnecessary Danielle Nunez suffering." 
president
Nunez said 

ND for Animals 
Notre Dame has made 

while her experience eating on cam­pus has "over­all" been posi­tive, "some­times the small cafes like Waddick's or Decio have really limited or no hot vege­tarian meal options." 
As for whether improvement 
"Use your power, 
improvement," Johnson said. 
million hunters Notre Dame es and factory farms through 
"We got people to keep track 
in this country," use your position could always its meetings, sponsored lec­
of their property." 
he said. "More improve upon its tures and films, and activism
to save those
In response to the statistics 
than 3.3 million options to campaigns.
creatures that
-as well as more detailed 
women hunt. include cage-free "I hope we can help uncover 
daily crime figures -NDSP 
These are people don't have that eggs, more mock the many myths people have 
works to 

who enjoy killing meats and vegan about vegetarians and show
luxury."
determine 

animals." dessert itnms." that there are serious moral, 
progress in serving the needs is likely in the near future, of vegetarian students, but Wheaton said there might not there is still room for be enough student support to improvement. compel the University to take 
"Most of the time veggie action. burgers, tofu, soy milk, soy "I don't know if there are cheese and other traditional enough vegetarians on cam­vegetarian foods like hummus pus to push the dining hall on are available in both dining this," she said. halls," Nunez said. "While ND for Animals plans to options like these provide ade-continue its tradition of rais­
quate sources of ing campus awareness of ani­protein and iron, mal cruelty in slaughterhous­
ative, they can like to see our club, as well as 
eat in the dining other concerned people on halls, but the meals become campus, continue to raise the really repetitive," senior issue of how our daily food Claire McArdle said. "With the choices affect so much more recent talks of expanding the than our own palates," she student center it would be said. nice if they could invite restaurants that offer vegetar­Contact Steve Kerins at ians more than one choice. skerins@nd.edu 
safety but we truly rely on our 
STUDY ABROAD 
community and how they choose to live." 
IN 

Contact Eileen DuffY at 
eduffy1@nd.edu 



JAPAN 



The Asian Indian Classical Music Society 52318 N TallyHo Drive, South Bend, IN 46635 
NAGOYA
·--:::::~~·::: 

Concert Announcement Ustad Shahid Parvez (Sitar) accompanied by Ramdas Palsule (Tabla) October 8, 2006, Sunday, 7.30PM. 
INFORMATION SESSIONS
Ustad Shahid Parvez is widely recognized as one of the best sitar players of his generation and is a favorite concert artist both in India and abroad. He belongs to the great musical family representing the lmdadkhani Gharana and trained with Ustad Aziz Khan, his father, and the renowned sitar 
Thursday, October 5 maestro, Ustad Vilayat Khan. For more information see: 11\f\NW.musicalnirvana.com!hindustani!shahid_parvez.html. 
5-6 PM 125 Hayes-Healy 
All concerts at: the Hesburgh Center for International and Peace Studies Auditorium APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE www.nd.edu/""intlstud 
Tickets available at gate. 

General Admission: $10, AICMS Members and ND/SMC faculty: $5, 
Students: FREE 

For further information, contact: Vidula Agte (277-2250), Amitava Dutt (2730928) or Umesh Garg (2722957) 
Thursday, October 5, 2006 The Observer + NEWS page 9 

Th,e Feminization of Poverty 
Featuring Jane Fonda 
Academy Award-winning Actor, Activist, Advocate for Women's Issues, including Women in Poverty 
Thursday, October 5th, at 7 p.m. 101 DeBartolo Hall 
All University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
Students, faculty and staff invited to attend 
Part of the MicroVenturing Certificate Program Sponsored by the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies, Mendoza College of Business http://gigot.nd.edu 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
MENDOZA COLLEGE OF BUSINESS 
Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies 
October 5 
So You Want to Fund Your Research Project: UROP and Other Avenues of Funding 
119 O'Shaugnessy Hall 
Contact information: 
Office of Undergraduate Studies 1 04 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 
' 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
"We hope once students leave our Notre Dame bubble that they will take what they learned here ... and actively make the decision to buy Fair Trade coffee." 
Fair Trade pricing ensures that farmers are paid $1.26 per pound of coffee beans, which is enough to support a family, Morrissey said. Fair Trade coffee eliminates the middle men -like millers, exporters and importers -and allows farmers to sell their beans directly to the roaster. 
The conventional model for cof­fee trade, however, only pays a farmer about 30 cents per pound of coffee beans -creating a "gross disparity" between what consumers pay for coffee and what the farmers receive for pro­ducing it. 
Currently, the Huddlemart, Reekers and the Jordan Hall of Science serve Fair Trade coffee exclusively. The University has had Fair Trade coffee on its cam­pus for more than five years, and in 2003 it was added to several campus venues like Waddick's in O'Shaughnessy Hall and the Cafe Commons in the Mendoza College of Business, among others. 
But that's not good enough, Morrissey said. 
"It gives the moral deCision­making authority to individuals rather than to the University community collectively," he said. 
Instead of being sold alongside conventional coffee, Morrissey believes Fair Trade brews should be the only coffee served on cam­pus. And it should be in every location, not just select ones, he said. 
But Fisher Senator Drew Clary feared the Fair Trade resolution did not accurately represent the interests of students, most of whom know very little about what Fair Trade coffee is, he said. 
"My fear is, if this passes and [Food Services] takes us up on this, what's going to be our moti­vation for education? The goal will have already been achieved," Clary said. 
Keenan Hall Senator Chris Beesley agreed with Clary. 
"How can we represent the stu­dent body saying students want Fair Trade coffee when the vast majority doesn't know what Fair Trade coffee is?" he said. 
But he still felt the resolution was appropriate, given Notre Dame's identity. 
"I think this is in line with the Catholic vision of the University and I don't see where that would be much of a problem." 
Now armed with the Senate's backing, Amnesty International members will be presenting infor­mation about Fair Trade coffee in each residence hall in an effort to educate students on the issue. 
"We need to decide to do the right thing," Nijak said. "Even if it means a few extra cents per cup." 
In other business: 
+ 
Community Relations com­mittee chair Josh Pasquesi said he plans to meet with local land­lord Mark Kramer to learn more about how Kramer has worked with the South Bend Police department regarding the disor­derly house ordinance. Both Shappell and South Bend city offi­cials have said adding landlords to the dialogue about the ordi­nance will naturally improve how it is implemented. 

+ 
The second of three student­alumni receptions will take place from 3 to 4:30 p.m. Friday in the Coleman-Morse Center. Refreshments will be served and the first 50 people will receive pep rally tickets. 


Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 



Amish 111ourn victi111s, encourage forgiveness 
Associated Press 
NICKEL MINES, Pa.-In just about any other community, a deadly school shooting would have brought demands from civic leaders for tighter gun laws and better security, and the victims' loved ones would have lashed out at the gunman's family or threat­ened to sue. 
But that's not the Amish way. 
As they struggle with the slay­ings of five of their children in a one-room schoolhouse, the Amish in this Lancaster County village are turning the other cheek, urg­ing forgiveness of the killer and quietly accepting what comes their way as God's will. 
'They know their children are going to heaven. They know their children are innocent ... and they know that they will join them in death," said Gertrude Huntington, a Michigan researcher and expert on chil­dren in Amish society. 
"The hurt is very great," Huntington said. "But they don't balance the hurt with hate." 
In the aftermath of Monday's violence, the Amish are looking inward, relying on themselves and their faith, just as they have for centuries. They hold them­selves apart from the modern world, and have as little to do with civil authorities as possible. 
Amish mourners have been going from home to home for two days to attend viewings for the five victims, all little girls laid out in white dresses made by their families. Such viewings occur almost immediately after the bod­ies arrive at the parents' homes. 
Typically, they are so crowded, "if you start crying, you've got to figure out whose shoulder to cry on," said · Rita Rhoads, a Mennonite midwife who delivered two of the five girls slain in the attack. 

u 
THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF

n..___ 

AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
F presents 
A~nerican Calholic Sludies Se~ninar ••• A Marriage of" Conscience': ln~erracial Marriage, Chu rch-S~a~e Conflic~s, and Gendered Freedoms in An~ebellum Louisiana.. Diana Williams Harvard UniversiTy 
Thursday, OcTober 5. 2006 4:15p.m. 1140FiannerHall 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, October 5, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
When these powers combine ••• 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notte Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BuSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim !Grihara 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWs EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler Sa!NE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: JeffAlben 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DFSIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CoNTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631·6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EOITOR IN CHI£f 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EOITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS 0FACE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DesK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBsERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advenisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infurmation. 
Quertiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed wEdiwr in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
1"h< Ob.u= (USPS 599 2-4000) i• publi"== Monday throUJlh Fruhy =<p< during exam and YWI.tion periods.. A subscription ro The ObKrv~r is $100 for one aac:kmic yar; $55 fur Oil£' semester. 
1"h< Ob>en<t ..publi<h..t •• POSTMASTER 024 South Dining H.UI Sc!nd addresl com:aions to: Notre Dame. IN 46556-0179 TheOb.:r= Periodica! postage paid u Nom Darn~ P-O.Bo~779 and. additional mailing offkcs. 024 Sooth DiningH.UI 
Not.tt D.u:ne, IN 46556--0779 
The Obsc:rttr is a member ofthe-Associated Pr(:$$;. All tepcoduction rights are 
.~. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Kelly Meehan Tim Dougherty Maureen Mullen Deirdre Krasula Viewpoint Ken Fowler 
Alyssa Kyle Cassily Brauweiler Scene Graphics Erin McGinn Jeff Albert 
One of the best cartoons on televi­sion while I was growing up was Captain Planet. The show's premise is this: Gaia, spirit of the earth, is fed up with humanity's destruction of the planet. She gives five rings to five teenagers repre­senting different areas of the world and turns them into the Planeteers. The rings give them ele­mental superpow­ers -earth, wind, fire, water and heart(because compassion matters too). When they combine the powers of their rings, they summon the super­hero of the earth -Captain Planet. 
Captain Planet had all the superpow­ers you could ask for: flight, shape­shifting, super strength, telekinesis and pretty much any ability the specif­ic dilemma demanded. His only weak­ness was exposure to smog, radiation, toxic waste or any form of pollution. The evil villains Sly Sludge, Hoggish Greedly, Doctor Blight, Looten Plunder, Verminous Skumm and Duke Nukem all attempted to thwart the Planeteers' environmentally restorative goals. 
I was hooked on this show. I mean, I even had the Captain Planet action fig­ure that turned brown when you applied heat to it (you had to dunk him in water to heal him and restore his natural healthy colors of blue and red). The lessons of the show really hit home. I tried to turn off lights in rooms when I left, and I occasionally cut up the plastic six-pack binding so it would not strangle fish. This was serious stuff. 
The show's message was beautiful: you can make a difference. Even as a kid, I think you realize that most car­toons are there just to occupy your 

James Dechant 
Foregone Conclusion 
time and energy. But this was differ­ent. This was a cartoon that actually told you to go out and do something when you got done watching it. It was groundbreaking and it was genius. Above and beyond all that, it was the only cartoon I knew featuring a green­mulleted superhero in tights. 
Then, somewhere along the way, something happened to me. I stopped watching, or the timeslot changed, or I got too old for cartoons. Suddenly, Captain Planet was no longer a part of my life. I graduated from the Planeteers -but the real tragedy was that nothing replaced it or carried on the environmental message as I grew older. Maturing meant losing my ideal­ism and skipping straight to cynicism. 
Part of this, I realize now, is the intense apathy directed toward the subject of environmentalism. We think the problem is too big, too distant and too broad to solve. The people we turn to when faced with trouble -the gov­ernment-end up being one of the biggest obstacles to progress on the issue. And every time a politician tries to make a case for improving our envi­ronmental standards, the bigwigs and talking heads scream out 'interest group.' We look for a power play behind every eco-decision. Case in point: AI Gore. 
Everyone knows about "An Inconvenient Truth," and almost no one can hear about it without wonder­ing if Gore has plans for holding office in the future. I realize that his movie is going to be politicized under the most intense scrutiny. There is nothing wrong with that. The man ran for President, so he can expect the gener­al public to see bureaucratic aspira­tions precipitating his every move. 
It is also acceptable to disagree with global warming based on the facts. There is a lot of information out there on the subject, and if you take the time to examine the data seriously and still conclude that the whole concept of global warming is bogus, you are enti­tled to such an opinion. But what no one is entitled to is using the "political motivation" argument as an excuse for inaction. What have we got to lose by working toward cleaner energy, fuel­efficient transportation and eco-friend­ly housing? You can complain about Al Gore and crazy wilderness people all you like, but in the end, such state­ments serve only as an excuse for lazi­ness. Hating AI Gore is no defense for owning two SUVs. 

That was the beauty of Captain Planet. It was not just about some superhero saving us. There were nor­mal kids (with magical rings, true) that saw problems and took the initiative to solve them. People disdain lectures about responsibility, but that is pre­cisely what we are burdened with -a responsibility to protect our planet. 
At the end of every show, Captain Planet bid the audience farewell by reminding us: "The power is yours!" Implicit in this sign off was a reminder of duty: the responsibility is ours. Previous generations have used the excuse of "not our problem" and have passed off the issue to their heirs. This excuse may not be possible for much longer, and it was never a good one to begin with. Our generation has the unique opportunity to turn things around, to take responsibility and to make sure that we are doing every­thing we possibly can to protect our environment. The resources are there, new avenues are open; all that remains is dedication on our part. 
Because if not us, who? 
James Dechant is a junior English and theology major. Questions, comments and rude remarks can be sent to jdechant@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
Does Notre Dame need to increase the number of Catholic faculty members? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

lSUblitaLetter 
!to the Editor at 

:\ www.ndsmcobseNer.com
.., ···....* . . ·,.....=·v 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

''The trouble with writing a book about yourself is that you can't fool around. If you write about someone else, you can stretch the truth from here to Finland. If you write about yourself the slightest deviation makes you realize instantly that there may be honor among thieves, but you are just a dirty liar. " 
Groucho Marx actor 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Thursday, October 5, 2006 page 11 
Celebrate with Holy Cross 
Just over five months ago, on April 28, 2006, Pope Benedict XVI authorized the promulgation of the mir­acle attributed to the intercession of the Venerable Basile Moreau, founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross. This promulgation completed the beatification process for Father Moreau, and it is expected that he will be beatified Richard. V. in LeMans, France, where the Warner Congregation of Holy Cross was founded in 1835. FaithPoint 
On that date, the Brothers of St. Joseph, founded in the aftermath of the French Revolution to serve as Catholic teachers to poor chil­dren in the countryside, and a group of priests which Father Moreau founded to be educators and to assist in local dioceses, were united and a new religious family was founded. Twenty-two years later, Pope Saint Pius IX approved Holy Cross as a religious Congregation of Pontifical Right. This enabled Father Moreau to immediately send young Holy Cross reli­gious from France to Algeria (1835), to the United States (1842), to Canada (1843) and to what is now Bangladesh (in 1856). 
It is likely that Father Moreau will be beatified on or near the patronal feast of the priests, brothers and sisters of Holy Cross, Our Lady of Sorrows, which is observed on Sept. 15. Plans are already underway for what will be a special moment of grace and blessing not only for the Church and for the members of Holy Cross, but also for the tens of thousands of people served by thousands of Holy Cross men and women in 17 countries around the world from Bangladesh and India, to Haiti, Peru, Brazil and Chile in South America, Canada, Mexico and the United States in North America, and Rwanda, Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania and Ghana in Africa, as well as France and Italy. 
In anticipation of this joyous occasion, the superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross has declared a year of rejoicing and spiritual renewal through which Holy Cross religious are urged to deepen their commitment to consecrated life. He has also urged us to redouble our efforts to draw more young men to serve the Church as priests and broth­ers by the example of our life and work. 
Of course, Notre Dame will play a central role in all these efforts. 
In an attempt to prepare for Father Moreau's beati­fication and to rededicate ourselves to honor Mary as the patroness of the University, a number of steps have been taken by Campus Ministry. 
The painting of Our Lady of Lourdes which is to the left side of the main altar of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, is decorated with candles and flowers on every feast of Mary and on special Notre Dame weekends, including home football weekends. It is out attempt to imitate Father Sarin's love for the Blessed Mother. A prayer card is available on these occasions which contains the Salve Regina. The words "our life, our sweetness and our hope," which are found on the seal of Our Lady's University, are drawn from this prayer. 
University President Father John Jenkins captured well how deeply our Marian roots run in his 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Perception in Mideast does matter 
Like Katie Palmitier (Oct. 4 col­umn "Candidates must discuss real issues"), I also wish that Iraq were a simple screw-up by a simplistic president, because then the solution would be obvious. And maybe Bush is as illogical in private as he is inarticulate on television. But as the "reality-based community" loves to point out, things are rarely so black and white, and the Iraq issue defi­nitely isn't. 
There is at least one compelling reason for invading Iraq that the Bush Administration has not, and cannot ever use in its rationale for invading Iraq. As Bush, the "neo­cons" and many others understood it, the "strategic equilibrium" in the Middle East was that Muslims and their governments had to either pay jihadist groups huge amounts of extortion money (Saudi Arabia et a!), or formally assist in the jihad against America {Iran, Syria, Iraq). 
The neocons, and many others now busy forgetting they ever agreed with the neocons about any­thing, all agreed that whatever the United States did in Iraq (or wher­ever it would intervene in the Mideast) would not last without establishing a basis for individual freedom in those countries, instead of the dictatorships that have for decades suppressed Muslim growth, initiative, etc. 
Unfortunately, then it wouldn't be humanitarian imperialism anymore. It would be something far more ambitious and threatening -an attempt to demolish the Mideastern order, primarily in America's national interest. How many moder­ate, quietly pro-American Muslim governments could have supported THAT rationale? It would have been impossible for a government in a Muslim-majority nation NOT to oppose the United States. 
Had Bush found weapons of mass destruction (WMDs) in Iraq, that would still not have justified the war. So many other very anti­American countries have WMDs and/or the money to buy them easi­ly. But the WMD rationale was mar­ketable. It was something that could fit the 45-second attention span of most voters, something that could be crammed into an abbreviated letter on an op-ed page. It would satisfy the liberals who cringe at any notion of waging war for national self-interest. And everyone -everyone -was absolutely sure they were there. 
But that's all too much work for most liberals. Instead, Bush is an idiot, a sock-puppet of Halliburton. A bumbling moron whose two victo­ries against "cerebral" faux-sophis­ticates was only due to stupid red­necks who pull the GOP lever as soon as Bush mutters "abortion" and "family values." Blacks and whites are just so much simpler than the truth. 
Reality is at least part-perception and part-reality. The war on terror­ism is heavily perception-driven, especially for the jihadis. And the perception isn't that America can­not win in Iraq if it doesn't achieve some remote semblance of unity. It's that, no matter how many al­Sadrites, Badrists, Sunni insurgents or al-Qaeda operatives Americans kill in Iraq, Bush is facing political collapse at home. Of course liberals are patriots with their own vision for a great America. Of course they aren't gleeful for every blow they land on Bush because they are unpatriotic. But what difference does it make? 
Joseph Forshaw 
JUlllOt 
St. Edward's Hall 
Oct. 4 
Inaugura!Address when he spoke about the after­math of the devastating fire of 1879 which could have marked the end of Notre Dame. 
The story of what happened next has been passed down through generations of the Notre Dame family -and has helped shape our aspirations and our sense of who we are. Fr. Sarin walked through the ruins, felt the devastation of the community, and sig­naled to everyone to enter the Church, where he stood on the altar steps and spoke. 
"I came here as a young man and dreamed of building a great university in honor of Our Lady," he said. "But I built it too small, and she had to burn it to the ground to make the point. So, tomorrow, as soon as the bricks cool, we will rebuild it, bigger and better than ever." Later that same day, the students saw Father Sarin, then 65 years old, stepping slowly through the ruins of his life's work, bent slightly for­ward, pushing a wheelbarrow full of bricks, getting ready to rebuild. 
There will be numerous opportunities for all of us to join in the preparations for this joyous celebration. 
I hope all of you will celebrate with the Church and with us, as well as with students in Holy Cross insti­tutions throughout the world served by Holy Cross religious. 
Father Richard V. Warner. CSC, is the director of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at Warner.2@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Don't forget about pro-life accomplishments 
Katie Palmitier (Oct. 4 column "Candidates must discuss real issues") comments that many Americans ignore the war in Iraq and focus only on other issues. She com­ments that the issues of flag burning, abortion and homosexual "marriage" affect "only a small number of people in our country." Yet over 30 million Americans have been aborted since abortion was legalized, and still over one million Americans are aborted every year. This does not sound like a small number of people to me, espe­cially when you take into account the mothers and fathers of the unborn babies, which gives another two million people right there. 
Furthermore, she comments that "after four years of Republicans controlling the House, Senate and the presidency, abortion has yet to be banned." While this is true, she does not consider the bigger picture in the pro-life movement. Nowhere is it mentioned in the column that the pro-life Congress and Presidency passed a law banning partial-birth abortion in 2003. Nowhere is it mentioned that President Bush vetoed a law which would have allowed federal funding to be used for stem­cell research and that the pro-life Congress voted to sustain his veto. And finally, nowhere does it mention that two anti-abortion justices have recently been nomi­nated by the President and confirmed by the Senate to the Supreme Court -a move which could one day overturn Roe v. Wade. 
While it is true that abortion has not yet been banned, it is unfair to imply that the administration has done little or nothing to combat this injustice. 
Therefore, I agree with Palmitier that we need to be conscious of a wide range of issues at election time, but I hope that we can be fair and objective in evaluating the job that each legislator and government representative has done. 
Michael Baznik freshman Zahm Hall Oct. 4 


int. 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Thursday, October 5, 2006 
page 12 

By BRIAN DOXTADER Scene Editor 

William Shakespeare once wrote "we know what we are, but know not what we may be." That ideology has been put into practice in Shakespeare Behind Bars, a rehabili­tating program that's the subject of the documentary of the same name. 
In Shakespeare Behind Bars, pris­oners at the Luther Luckett Correction Complex in LaGrange, Kent. read, study and perform plays by the Bard. The documentary, origi­nally released in 2005, explores the lives of the inmates who participate in the program over the course of a year. 
Curt Tofteland founded the pro­gram over a decade ago, growing out of a program called Books Behind Bars, a literature-based idea intend­ed to curb juvenile delinquency. Tofteland used Books Behind Bars as a starting point, extrapolating its premise and applying it to theater. 
"The intellectual discussion of a book gets to a certain level of intel­lectual discourse, perhaps engaging the emotions, but when you have to act and inhabit a character in a play, it takes you to a deeper level," said Tofteland. 
Shakespeare was an obvious and logical choice for Tofteland for a variety of reasons. 
"He is the best writer about the human condition in any era, in any language, in any time period," Tofteland said. "In every population, Shakespeare has something for them." 
Perhaps most appealing to Tofteland is that Shakespeare's philosophies are manifested in dra­matic form, which he says helps con­victs to examine their characters and find the truth of those characters within themselves. He uses Macbeth as an example of a good man who does a bad thing, then faces the con­sequences of his decisions. 
"The 'therapeutic' aspect of Shakespeare, in particular with my inmates, is that it allows them to explore their crime, but through an aesthetic, having an aesthetic dis­tance from it," said Tofteland. "In exploring that in an authentic way, they can discover their own journey to their own crime, and in many cases it's a very cathartic and very 

the confessional scenes, when each man admits to his crime. These confessionals were not prompted, as Tofteland emphasized that it was a rule that nobody from the film crew was allowed to ask about the crimes. 
In other words, each inmate featured in the documentary elected to discuss their past, which both Tofteland and Spitzmiller believe helped them confront and move on from the things they had done. 
"If you think about the worst things you've ever done, are you willing to go there and figure out why you did it and try to reconcile? A lot of us try to put it away," Spitzmiller said. "I was impressed with the courage these men had." 
The documentary itself has been extraordinarily well­

Hardened felons rehearse "The Tempest" in this fascinating documentary of the enduring received, premiering at the power of a legendary 17th-century playwright to explore and nourish 21st-century lives. Sundance Film Festival in 
epiphanie experience." prison for long periods of time,:· 
To fteland also points out that Spitzmiller said. "There's not one Shakespeare was a master story­comfortable place. It's very loud and teller whose vocabulary and sense of· very uncomfortable in a physical language remains unparalleled. sense. You feel the weight of their 
The program has been remarkably incarceration." successful over the course of its 10-Spitzmiller had high praise for the year existence. The national average inmates who participated in the for freed convicts who commit Shakespeare program, noting their another crime is around 40 percent, dedication, self-awareness and work 
while the rate for  ethic.  
those involved in the Shakespeare  Shakespeare Behind Bars  "You knew that the work  
Behind Bars pro­gram is almost zero. The documentary came about when  When: Tonight at 7 and 10 Where: Browning Cinema, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Cost: $6 general public, $5 faculty/staff,  being done before you was really profound," s a i d  
director  Hank  $4 seniors and $3 all students  Spitzmiller. "It  

Rogerson, looking for new material, decided he wanted to do something involving theater. According to producer Jilann Spitzmiller, the Shakespeare Behind Bars program was immediately appealing because of its profundity and uniqueness. 
Rogerson and his crew were grant­ed special access to prison, allowing them to film over 174 hours of footage over the course of a 9-month shoot. 
"It was pretty arduous to be in that 
was an oasis 
that was very 
effective for turning on a light bulb for the guys who were ready. They have to be ready to go to their darkest, darkest moments and the darkest, darkest aspects of themselves." 
The film follows five of the inmates involved in the program as they pre­pare for a performance of "The Tempest." 
The film shows how the program helped the inmates discover things about themselves, especially during 2005. 
It also played at the New York Film Festival, where it was one of 16 doc­umentaries shown out of over 660 that applied. 
It has garnered 10 awards, includ­ing the Crystal Heart award at the Heartland Film Festival, and was a Grand Jury nominee at Sundance. 
"I think that the film has a lot to offer any community that believes in 
education and the power of educa­tion because that's precisely what the film is about," Tofteland said. "It isn't just education of the brain, it's at a much deeper level. It's educa­tion of the heart." 
Tofteland points out that though it's The Bard who is in the title of the film, "Shakespeare Behind Bars" is really about the inmates and their journeys. 
"It is a film about prison, it is a film about Shakespeare, but it's more about the power of art to heal. It's about redemption, it's about mercy and it's about forgiveness." 
"Shakespeare Behind Bars" will be screened tonight in the Browning Cinema of the DPAC at 7 and 10. Tofteland will be present at the 7 
p.m. screening. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 




From left, Sammie, Demond and Big G were part of the yearlong Shakespeare Behind Bars drama project at the Luther Luckett Correction Complex In Kentucky. 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 13 
Thursday, October 5, 2006 

SCENE FEATURE 
Musical performances celebrate Moreau Center for the Arts' 50th anniversary 
.. 
By EMMA DRISCOLL reception immediately "The Nutcracker" ballet 
Scene Writer following the perform­annually, have per­
ance, said Richard formed at the 
Fifty years have Baxter, director of spe­O'Laughlin. passed since Hollywood cial events at Saint The auditorium also actress Helen Hayes Mary's. holds a purpose outside graced the stage of Saint The Moreau Center, of the realm of perform­Mary's O'Laughlin which includes the ing arts. Academic per­Auditorium to celebrate O'Laughlin Auditorium, formances, significant the opening of the is a very important lectures, orientations Moreau Center for the place both for students and other large gather­Arts. and faculty at Saint ings frequently utilize 
Along with reading Mary's. the spaces located in the from Shakespeare's "It's at the heart of the Moreau Center, Baxter "The Merchant of cultural arts of the said. He said the Venice," Hayes gave the College," said Baxter. Moreau Center is often Center high praise, say­"It's the place where rented to other groups ing, "There is no beauty you come for the cultur­interested in using it, that can be laid upon al arts, and beyond that, including Notre Dame's this brick and mortar as becoming educated in Keenan Hall for the perfect as the love and the cultural performing annual "Keenan Revue" high ideals that have arts." and some gospel groups. gone into its construc­Since its start in 1956, The namesake of tion." the Moreau Center has Father Basil Anthony 
On Tuesday night, the been the performing Moreau, the founder of Saint Mary's community arts hub of Saint Mary's. the Sisters of the Holy celebrated these lofty "It's the major per­Cross, the Moreau ideals again with a forming venue for the Center holds the unique musical per­whole College and has O'Laughlin Auditorium, formance specially been for years," said Little Theatre, Moreau designed for the Moreau Nancy Menk, chair of Art Galleries, studios, Center's 50th anniver­the Saint Mary's music workshops and class­sary. department and director rooms. Baxter said the 
Saint Mary's own com­of the Women's and art, dance, theater, poser, pianist, and facul­Collegiate Choirs at music and communica­ty artist Dr. Jeffrey Saint Mary's, who con­tions departments are Jacob composed the ducted last night. all housed within the piece, entitled Before the opening of building. "Celebration," per­Notre Dame's DeBartolo The Moreau Center formed to commemorate Performing Arts Center was first made possible the golden anniversary. in September 2004, the when Sister Frances The New York O'Laughlin Auditorium Jerome -formerly Philomusica, the Saint was the largest per­Susan O'Laughlin, chair Mary's Women's Choir, forming arts facility of Classical Languages Latin American poet between the two cam­and vice president of Maria Auxiliadora puses, said Menk. Saint Mary's -donated Alvarez, College alumna And the venue has not her inheritance to the and mezzo-soprano been limited to only building's construction. Mary Nessinger and fac­benefiting Saint Mary's Sister Madeleva Wolff, ulty soprano Laurel students over the past president of Saint Thomas participated in five decades. Mary's from 1934 to performing at the event. "It's been important 1961, is also credited 
The performance, for the community, too," for her dedication and arranged by the Office said Menk, explaining effort toward the cre­of Special Events and that touring companies ation of the Moreau the Saint Mary's music and several South Bend Center. department, was open dance companies, such 
as the Southold Dance Contact Emma Driscoll at 
to the community at large and included a Company who perfom edriscol@nd.edu 


page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 5, 2006 
MLB 



Offense pulls Mets through pitching drought 
Kotsay's two-run homer helps Athletics defeat Twins; Oakland takes 2-0 lead in American League playoffs 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Minus two top starters, the New York Mets got dynamic postseason debuts from Carlos Delgado and David Wright to jump ahead of the Dodgers. 
Back in the playoffs for the first time since losing the 2000 Subway Series, the Mets capital­ized on a wild baserunning blun­der by Los Angeles and a perfect­ly respectable performance from emergency starter John Maine in a 6-5 victory Wednesday. 
Billy Wagner closed it for his first postseason save, fanning Nomar Garciaparra with a run­ner on second for the fmal out. 
Playing in the first playoff game of his 14-year career, Delgado had four hit<>, a mammoth homer and the go-ahead RBI in the sev­enth inning. Wright drove in three runs, helping the Mets take a 1-0 lead in the best-of-five series. 
Game 2 is Thursday night, with rookie left-bander Hong-Chih Kuo on the mound for the Dodgers against 290-game win­ner Tom Glavine. Kuo pitched six shutout innings at Shea Stadium on Sept. 8 for his only major league win. 
The Mets started a rookie of their own in the opener after Orlando Hernandez tore a muscle in his right calf while jogging in the outfield Tuesday. He is expected to miss the entire post­season. 
Already without injured ace Pedro Martinez, New York scrambled Tuesday night to find a healthy, rested 
opposite-field drive off the base of the right-field wall. But Jeff Kent hesitated at second base, appar­ently thinking the ball might be caught, and got an extremely late jump. 
That left J.D. Drew, who was on first, practically running up Kent's back as coach Rich Donnelly waved one -or both­around third. A quick, accurate relay from right fielder Shawn Green to second baseman Jose Valentin to catcher Paul Lo Duca nailed Kent, who attempted a headfirst dive into the plate. 
Drew was left in no-man's land, trapped about halfway between third and home. But Lo Duca, who got spun around on the play at the plate, didn't realize that at first as he struggled to his feet. 
With Lo Duca unaware for a moment, Drew tried to sneak his way in. But Maine pointed at Lo Duca, alerting him that another runner was coming. The catcher turned his head, suddenly noticed Drew bearing down on him and applied a second tag as Drew also tried a headfirst dive. 
It was the kind of sequence you often see in a Hollywood movie, but rarely on a major league field. 
Marlon Anderson followed with an RBI double down the third base line for a 1-0 lead, but that was all the Dodgers got after run" ning themselves out or a poten­tially big inning. 
Aaron Heilman worked a per­fect eighth for New York, which plans to rely heavily on its deep bullpen all series. Wagner 
allowed an RBI 

starter and picked double to pinch­
"We'll come out and
Maine, an after­hitter Ramon thought in the off­battle. We'll give Martinez in the season trade that ninth before strik­
them everything we 
sent Kris Benson ing out
have."
to Baltimore for Garciaparra. reliever Jorge With the score Julio. Ron Gardenhire tied at 4, Dodgers 
Julio was manager Grady
Twins manager
shipped to Little brought Arizona in May starter Brad Penny for Hernandez, but Maine out of the bullpen in the seventh. became a surprising success. The Penny, bothered by a bad back 25-year-old right-hander went 6-and 3-10 lifetime against the 5 with a 3.60 ERA for the NL East Mets with a 6.16 ERA, walked champions, who tied the two of his first three batters. crosstown Yankees for the best Delgado put the Mets ahead record in baseball at 97-65. with an opposite-field single, then 
Yet he probably would have gave a huge fist pump after been left out of the playoff rota­rounding first. Wright's bloop tion altogether if Martinez hadn't double made it 6-4. gone down. The Dodgers tied it at 4-all with 
Maine, lifted with a 2-1 lead in three runs in the seventh against the fifth after throwing 80 pitch­reliever Guillermo Mota, who had es, got a break on a bizarre play a 1.00 ERA in 18 appearances for when the Dodgers had two run­New York down the stretch after ners cut down at home plate in being acquired from Cleveland on the second. Aug. 20. 
With two on and none out, With the Mets up by three, rookie Russell Martin hit an manager Willie Randolph let Mota bat with the bases loaded and two outs in the sixth. He flied out. 

Anderson got the Dodgers' rally going with a bunt single, and a throwing error by second base­man Valentin helped Los Angeles. Rafael Furcal's RBI single made it 4-2, and Gareiaparra's two-out, two-run double tied it. 
Delgado's fourth-inning drive landed on top of an elevated cam­era stand behind the center-field fence and was estimated at 4 70 fee. Floyd, hobbled by a score Achilles' heel, added his first postseason homer later in the inning for a 2-1 Mets lead. 
Wright hit a two-run double to right off starter Derek Lowe in the sixth to make it 4-1, and gave an enthusiastic fist pump of his own. 
A roar went up when Pedro Martinez, smiling in the New York dugout, .was shown on the big video board in left-center. He pointed to himself on the screen, touched his heart and waved to fans. 

Athletics 5, Twins 2 
Playing it safe? Not Torii Hunter's style. That's why he has five Gold Gloves. 
Trying to make a tough catch right after his Minnesota team­mates tied the game with back­to-hack home runs, Hunter missed -and Oakland took advantage. 
Mark Kotsay circled the bases for a two-run, inside-the-park homer after Hunter's ill-advised dive for a sinking line drive, lift­ing the Athletics over the Twins on Wednesday for a 2-0 lead in their first-round playoll' series. 
"It was the worst feeling in the world. You can't do anything about it," said Hunter, who blamed himself' for the defeat. 
The A's handled the Boof -Bonser, that is -and here's the truth: Oakland has arrived at yet another elimination game. The perennial playoff underperform­ers are 0-9 in those since 2000, losing four straight first-round series. 
"This team knows what to do," said Eric Chavez, a regular on all four of those clubs. "We're hard­nosed baseball players that like to play the game. I don't think anybody here, regardless if they've been in this position, is going to take Game 3lightly." 
The series shifts west Friday, with Twins right-hander Brad Radke taking his broken shoulder socket to the mound for possible the final appearance of his 12­year career. 
Dan Haren, in his frrst postsea­son start, will pitch for Oakland -which beat Cy Young Award favorite Johan Santana in Game 1 and now gets two chances to close it out at home. 
"We've won two games. OK. Congratulations. Good job. But it's not over yet," said Nick Swisher, who doubled against Juan Rincon and scored on Joe Nathan's wild pitch in the ninth. 
The A's had one mishap in the ninth, however. Second baseman Mark Ellis broke his right index fmger swinging at a high, inside pitch, and Oakland said it would update his condition at Thursday's workout. 
For the Twins, it's certainly not over, considering they came from 12 1/2 games back to win the AL Central. Plus, there's the recent history of these A's, even tbough Chavez and Barry Zito are the only players remaining from 2000 and just a handful are left from 2003. 
"We've been backed up before," Twins manager Ron Gardenhire said. "We've been told, 'you're done' before. That's not something that this team takes too lightly. We'll come out and battle. We'll give them every­thing we have." 
Oakland starter Esteban Loaiza slipped in the sixth inning, sur­rendering consecutive solo homers to Michael Cuddyer and Justin Morneau that evened the game at 2. 
But with Jason Kendall on first, two outs in the seventh and reliever Dennys Reyes pitching, Kotsay hit what should have been a single. Hunter, bothered by a sore left foot this season, charged forward. 
The ball sliced to Hunter's left, and his reach wasn't long enough to get near it. 
"There's only one person in this league that can make that catch, and it's Torii," said Cuddyer, who watched from right field. "Although it's as close as you come, he's not Superman." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office,  
CLASSIFIEDS  024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
1999 HONDA CIVIC. Blk. 78K  House for home games. 4 doors  Houses 4 Rent:W/Es-Home  Undergrad/grad student (1 ), turn,  WANTED: Notre Dame tickets.  
miles. 1 owner. Sporty. Runs great.  from NO. Call Gary at 574-993­ Fbaii,Sr Dad, JPW, Grad, B&G;  clean 3 room apt. close to NO,  251-1570  
WANTED  $6,600.286-1861.  2208.  SEMESTER-Spring/Summer.  quiet wooded setting. Minimal  
Mike:312-618-4722  domestic assistance, if preferred,  FOR SALE: NO TICKETS. 232­ 
FALL WORK $15.50 base-appt.  FoR RENT  45 minutes from Notre Dame Stadium. $125.00/night. Year round  2 rooms in private home w/sepa­ will reduce r!:!nt. 272-6377.  Q961  
Flexible schedules. no exp. need­ed, customer sales/service, condi- BLUE & GOLD HOMES,  cabins sleep six. Call Lumberjack Resort 269-646-2181.  rate entrance for football week­ends. Shared bath.  TICKETS  PERSONAL  
tions apply. all ages 17+, Call  Off-campus homes & weekend  Close to NO.  
Today 574-273-3835.  rentals.  HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6  57 4-259-8603.  WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
Bluegoldrentals.com  Bedrooms  TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY  not go it alone. If you or someone  
FoR SALE  Weekend rental: 3 BR Home,  www.NDstudentrentals.com  Bed & Breakfast, NO home games. 2 bedrms, private bath,6 miles west  WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726.  you love needs confidential support or assistance. please call Sr. Sue  
Walk to stadium, Terrace Ln.  Upscale Football Weekend House ­ of South Bend Airport.  FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TICK- Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more  
Investment homes for sale near  269-930-8038.  Escort Optional. 574-993-8333  Call 574-289-2919 and leave mes- ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232­ information, see our bi-weekly ad in  
NO. 866·521-8989.  swmient@qtm.net  keszeicpa@ sbcglobal.net  sage.  2378.  The Observer.  


THANK YOU ••• 
For taking the LibQUAL+ survey; 
For helping us better serve your needs. 
The 2006 LibQUAL+ survey administered this spring showed that ND Libraries largely meet user expectations. The library will try to address the identified areas that need improvement. 
• 
Most users are pleased with staff and think the library does a good job with limited resources. 

• 
All users want more books, journals, and online {electronic) materials. 

• 
Excepting Besburgh's Lower Level, students agree that the library buildings and furnishings need to be refurbished. 

• 
Kaking electronic resources accessible from home/office is the most important issue for undergraduates; graduate students and faculty were most concerned with having print and/or electronic journal collections. 

• 
Students want longer opening hours generally and many want 24/7 access. 



http://www.library.nd.edu/libqual/ 
UN I'VE ltSITY Of NOTRE DAME 
UIIQU.AL··· 



---------~--------. 
AP 

Rangers manager Buck Showalter walks back to the dugout after arguing a strike-out call in the sixth inning of a Sept. 14 game against the Dodgers. Showalter was fired Wednesday after four seasons without a playoff appearance. 

Showalter axed for missing playoffs again 
page 16 
team 
New England 
Buffalo 
N.Y. Jets Miami 
team 
Baltimore Cincinnati Pittsburgh Cleveland 
team 
Indianapolis Jacksonville Houston Tennessee 
team 
Denver San Diego Kansas City Oakland 
team 
Philadelphia Dallas Washington 
N.Y. Giants 
team 
Chicago Minnesota Green Bay Detroit 
team 
Atlanta New Orleans Carolina Tampa Bay 
team 
Seattle St•. louis Arizona San francisco 
team 
Calvin 
Albion 
_,.,$AIH1' 
·Olivet Alma_ Kalamazoo Adrian Hope. Tfi·State 



OUND THE NATION 
NFL AFC East 

record perc:  PF  PA  
3-1 .750  88  64  
2-2 .500  70  65  
2-2 .500  96  91  
1-3 .250  51  71  
AFC North  
recqrd pete,  PF  PA  
4-0 1.000  86  33  
3-1 .750  98  85  
1-2 .ass  48  54  
1-3 .250  69  89  
AFC South  
recQ.rd~ p(:lrc;  PF  PA  
4·0 1.000  121  87  
2·2 .500  n  74  
1-3 ;250  67  113  
0·4 .000  47  121  
AFCWest  
record per!.\  PF  PA  
24 .667  36  31.  
2-1 .667  80  23  
1•2 .333  57  32  
0·3 .000  27  79  
NFC East  
record perc.  PF  PA  
3~1 .750  117  73  
2·1 .667  89  48  
2-2 .500  93  91  
1-Z .333  81  92  
NFC North  
record pen;.  PF  PA  
4-0 1.000  116  29  
2·2 .500  63  65  
1-3 .250  67  115  
0-4 .000  71  115  
NFC South  
record perc.  PF  PA  
34 ;750  69  42  
3•1 .750  94  65  
2-2 .500  66  78  
0·3 .000  27  61  
NFCWest  
tecord pen:;.  PF  PA  
3~1 34 •·•·· >.. .;750.750  78 88  
1~3 .250  68  
1·3 iF ;250  71  



around the dial 
MLB 

Cardinals at Padres 4 p.m., ESPN Dodgers at Mets 8 p.m., FOX 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Florida State at North Carolina State 
7:30 p.m., ESPN TCU at Utah 9 p.m., CSTV 
COMP[LED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVICES Thursday, October 5, 2006 
MLB 


Associated Press 

ARLINGTON, Texas­While Buck Showalter wasn't the only person to blame for the Texas Rangers missing the play­offs again, the manager got fired for it. 
"There's a shared responsibility there, some ·or which is Buck's, some of which is mine, and a good deal to the players," gen­eral manager Jon Daniels said Wednesday. "This is an organizational goal to win. When we don't do it, it falls on all of us." 
The ax fell on Showalter after his fourth season, an 80-82 mark that was the Rangers' sixth losing 
IN BRIEF 

Tyson asks Ohioans to pay
$25 to see him· workout 
YOUNGSTOWN. Ohio -Mike Tyson surfaced in Ohio last week to sell the citizenry on the idea of pay­ing to watch him work up a sweat. It wasn't really his idea but, hey, Lennox Lewis still doesn't have any children, and a guy's gotta eat. 
The same Tyson who used to sepa­rate heads from bodies is now trying to separate the people of Youngstown from some of their hard-earned cash. 
"Where else are you going to be able to see Mike Tyson for $25?" his new promoter asked. 
Hmmm, the circus maybe? At least there you might get the painted lady and the sword swallower thrown in for the same price. 
Anyway, the Mike Tyson World Tour 2006 is now official. It may be kicking off in a not-so-worldly place -and no one seems to have any idea where it goes after that -but it record in seven yea~s since last making the play· off's in 1999 despite a ros­ter with several young All­Stars. 
Daniels, the 29-year-old GM who was the youngest ever in the major leagues when he was hired a year ago Wednesday, recom­mended Showalter's firing and reached a mutual decision with owner Tom Hicks before a planned dinner among the trio Tuesday night. 
"This decision was not based exclusively on the '06 season and our lack of accomplishing our goals," Daniels said. "It's more about looking forward, and what gives us the 
is official. Dementieva defeats unseeded player to advance to quarters 
STUTTGART, Germany-Third· seeded Elena Dementieva of Russia overcame cramps and unforced errors to beat Katarina Srebotnik of Slovenia 4-6, 7-5, 7-5 and reach the quarterfinals of the Porsche Grand Prix on Wednesday. 
Also gaining the quarterfinals was second-seeded Russian Svetlana Kuznetsova, the former U.S. Open champion who swept past German wild-card Martina Muller 6-1, 6-4. 
In first-round matches, !veta Benesova of the Czech Hepublic, who lost in qualifying but replaced an injured Ana Ivanovic in the draw, advanced when seventh-seeded Francesca Schiavone of Italy retired with a right wrist injury while trail­ing 6-3, 6-7 (5), 3-0, and eighth­seeded Jelena Jankovic of Serbia beat 1993 champion and two-time runner-up Mary Pierce of France 7-6 chance to achieve those goals ... I'm very confident that we made the right decision." 
Showalter was 319-329 with the Rangers, his third managerial job, and is owed $5.1 million for the three seasons left on his contract. Texas never fin­ished above third place. 
"You never heard me make an excuse all year, and I'm not going to start now. We just didn't get it done," Showalter told The Associated Press in a phone interview. "They want to go in a new direc­tion with a new voice. With the shelf life of man­agers, I feel fortunate." 
Daniels acknowledged 
(7), 6-3. "The Girl in the Dugout"still tending to Padres 
SAN DIEGO -Kelly Calabrese took a break from treating the aches and pains of major leaguers to jog out to the first-base line to take her place among the San Diego Padres players and staff. 
"There's nothing like on opening day or during playoffs running out on the field and getting introduced," Calabrese said. 
"I still get chills every time it hap­pens. It's phenomenal." 
Yeah, five months after being called out on the air by Keith Hernandez, "the girl in the dugout" is doing OK. She's doing her part to keep the two-time NL West champi­ons healthy enough to face the St. Louis Cardinals -even if there's nothing she can do for their lethargic bats, which helped contribute to San Diego's 5-1 loss in Game 1 of their division series on Tuesday. 
that he would be looking for a different kind of com­municator, but played down what impact any players' discontentment with Showalter and the manager's hands-on approach had with the decision. 
"That was nothing that was ever communicated to me," Daniels said. "I didn't have any direct conversa­tions with the players." 
Showalter was the AL manager of the year only two years ago, when AL MVP Alex Rodriguez was traded in the spring and the Rangers went on to contend for a playoff spot until the final few games of the season. 

Thursday, October 5, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
McNabb and Owens not soon to apologize 
Former Philadelphia teammates say they are ready for big game Sunday as media scrutiny intensifies 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas -Here they go again: Terrell Owens and Donovan McNabb have their signals crossed. 
Days before the buddies­turned-enemies face off for the first time since their nasty breakup, a misunderstanding is brewing over a text message MeNabb says he sent Owens last week after a trip to the hospital was reported as an attempted suicide. 
Owens said Wednesday he never got it. While he stopped short of calling McNabb a liar, the sour look on his face sure seemed to insinuate it. 
Asked later if it was possible McNabb sent the message to an old phone number, Owens said: "Look, I'm not trying to start anything. He's a smart guy. If he wanted my number, he could've gotten it." 
Earlier Wednesday, in sepa­rate interviews with reporters in Philadelphia and on a con­ference call with reporters in Dallas, McNabb said he reached out to Owens to "let him know that I was thinking about him praying for him," adding that he hoped "every­thing would turn out well and that he'd get back out on the field and be healthy." 
"And if he needed anything, to call," McNabb said he wrote. 
McNabb said he never got a response, but added he wasn't looking for one, either. 
"I think the message was sent," McNabb said. "If he read it or received it, then I think he would know." 
T.O. and McNabb could hash things out in person -but likely won't-on Sunday when the Cowboys (2-1} visit Philadelphia to take on the Eagles (3-1}. While the game is a pivotal early-season matchup for first place in the NFC East, all eyes will be on Owens and how the City of Brotherly Love vents its anger toward him for tearing apart its team. 
"Once we win, it will be spe­cial," Owens said, later clarify­ing he wasn't guaranteeing a victory. "We're not going there to taste the cheesesteaks. We're not going there to visit the crack in the Liberty Bell. We're going up there to try to win a ballgame." 
Owens was a model citizen when he arrived in Philadelphia in 2004, saying he wanted to catch passes from McNabb and get the team to the Super Bowl after three near-misses. And he did. 
Although he missed the play­offs with an ankle surgery, he returned for the Super Bowl and played well, but Philadelphia lost. 
Then everything went hay­wire. 
Owens trashed McNabb, demanded a new contract and caused all sorts of problems. He was sent home for a week in training camp, then was kicked out for good with nine games left. Finally cut in March, he signed with the Cowboys four days later. In July, he released an autobiog­raphy in which he said the root of his problems with McNabb were being cussed at in the huddle; McNabb later referred to Owens' literary effort as a "children's book." 
Owens has made no secret about looking forward to get­ting revenge. He's often said this game has been circled on his calendar since the schedule was released, even telling Sports Illustrated he worked out in sets of 10-8, referencing the Oct. 8 game. McNabb mocked that while talking to Dallas reporters. 
"I got my eight in just a few minutes ago," he said, laugh­ing. "I did eight push-ups, eight curls and I was just so focused, I'm ready to go." 
Without knowing about that jab, Owens threw one of his own Wednesday, slipping it in while praising McNabb for a strong start this season. 
"Obviously, he's gotten him­self into a lot better shape this year," Owens said. "I think you can tell that by the way he's running around.... I wouldn't say he was out of shape. But I think everybody notices he has slimmed down a little bit and he's moving around better." 
About the only thing T.O. and McNabb agree on? Neither is interested in a symbolic, hatchet-burying handshake. 
"I don't feel like I have to go out of the way to appease you guys, to try to create some type of story," Owens said. 
Said McNabb: "The whole world doesn't have to see us shaking hands, high-fiving, hugging, chest bumping. Because after that it will be, 'Well, they made up,' and you guys will come up with some bad clich or bad little funny jokes about it. We have a job to d0." 
Owens has started talking to local reporters only on Wednesdays, so he knew this was his day to put on a show. He walked into the locker room ready to do just that, eagerly saying, "Man!" upon seeing the crowd already gath­ered around his stall. 
His first state­ment came from 
hear: "O.D! O.D! O.D!" It's a cruel reference to his acciden­tal overdose last week and a twist on the ''T.O! T.O! T.O!" chant he heard during his good 

his wardrobe: a gray T-shirt that  'Tm not going to let  times in Philadelphia,  
read, "Funny little football person," a line angrily said  what the fans say or do take me out ofmy ,, game.  all sung to the tune of the pop­ular soccer song, "Ole! Ole!  
about him last  Ole!"  
week head Dallas  by the of the Police  Terrell Owens Cowboys wide receiver  "Hey man, I'm having fun," he said.  
Association.  ''I'm not going  
0  w  e  n  s  to let what the  

answered every question for fans say or do take me out of about 20 minutes. He laughed my game." about the kind of reception Although Owens has often he's going to get from the , had some of his best per­crowd ("Not a good one," he formances in games tinged predicted}, and later playfully with emotion like this, he's not sang a chant he's bracing to making any promises. 

"There's nothing extra that I 
feel like I have planned," he 
said. ''I'm going to go into this 
game and try to score touch­
downs and try to go in there 
and do the best I can do." 
Strangely, his take on the 
significance of this game 
wavered from one extreme to 
the other. 
At times, he expounded on 
this being a huge event: ''I'm 
pretty sure it will be the most­
watched game throughout the 
course of the year, besides the 
Super Bowl." He also said, "To 
that city, it's almost like a play­
off game." 
Other times, he made it seem 
like a minor subplot: "It's been a rivalry around here for years, the Cowboys and -Eagles. With me being here, there's just some added excite­
ment." 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 5, 2006 
NFL 


Teams struggle with injuries to key players 
Chiefs suffer lineup blow; linebacker Rich Scanlon, offensive lineman Will Svitek sustain severe knee injuries 
Associated Press the 10-yard line led to 
Cincinnati's pivotal touchdown in 

CHARLOTTE, N.C.-Carolina a 28-20 victory in Pittsburgh on Panthers tight end Mike Sept. 24. Seidman has a torn anterior cru­Colclough was allowed to ciate ligament in his right knee practice Wednesday -some­and will likely miss the rest of thing he wouldn't be permitted the season. to do if the Steelers were con­
Seidman, who had been start­cerned about the injury -but ing, injured his knee in the win has been told to avoid contact over Tampa Bay on Sept. 24, but for now. coach John Fox claimed they "I really don't know too much didn't know it was a torn ACL about what's going on, until the until "the last couple of days." test results come back and we sit 
Seidman is not yet on injured down and talk about it," he said. reserve. Colclough, who fumbled on 
"There are different options only his fourth NFL punt return and we're sorting those out," attempt, said he is determined to Fox said Wednesday. put the game-altering play 
Kris Mangum and Michael behind him. Gaines are expected to split time "It's made me stronger at tight end. because I'm working harder 
Meanwhile, linebacker Dan than I ever did before," he said. Morgan will miss his fourth "Before I was working hard, but straight game since suffering at now it's to the point where I'm least the fifth concussion of his working extra hard." career in the opener against Atlanta. On Monday, Fox said Chiefs Morgan was not considering A couple of key reserves went retirement. down during practice 
Center Justin Hartwig Wednesday, further complicating returned to practice and listed an injury situation that is injury in the Week 1 win over Williams. ankle sprain as initially feared. as questionable for Sunday's becoming critical. Carolina in which he had six Villarrial was hurt in the sec­game against Cleveland. Hartwig Linebacker Rich Scanlon and tackles, two sacks, two forced Rams ond quarter of Buffalo's 17-12 has missed the past three games offensive lineman Will Svitek fumbles and one pass batted Fullback Paul Smith is out this win over Minnesota last week­after suffering a pulled groin both sustained knee injuries. away. The Falcons, off this week and probably next week end, when he opened a hole for against Atlanta. Coach Herm Edwards said weekend, had their last practice from injuries sustained in a Willis McGahee at the Vikings' 
Scanlon, a valuable member of of the week Wednesday, and wedge-busting collision that goal line. As Villarrial fell into Titans the special teams units, will get Abraham decided the non-con­landed S~pith and Detroit's the end zone, several players fell 
Receiver David Givens will an MRI on his right knee and tact session was the perfect Frank Davis in a hospital. on the back of his leg. miss Sunday's game with the Svitek will have a similar proce­opportunity to test the groin. Smith has small fractures He stayed in for the next play, Colts because of an injured dure on his left knee. Abraham said he hoped to around his eyes along with a when McGahee scored from the thumb. The Titans listed Givens Edwards said defensive back play Oct. 15 game against the concussion, coach Scott Linehan 1, but the lineman missed the as out on the injury report Benny Sapp will now be out New York Giants. said. rest of the game and was spotted Wednesday, along with tight end about four to six weeks with a "From today, I think so," "We haven't counted him out leaving the stadium wearing a Erron Kinney and starting left knee injury. A leg injury has Abraham said. "I think I prac­next week, but he'd be highly protective boot. guard Zach Piller. Kinney has sidelined running back Michael ticed well. I'm still a little stiff. doubtful," Linehan said. "With Duke Preston will take over at not practiced since having sur­Bennett. I'm still a little behind, but I -those two injuries it's going to guard, making his second career gery on his left knee in the open­Quarterback Trent Green, as think I'll be OK if I just stay here take a while before he's going to start. ing days of training camp. Piller expected, will miss his third and work out and get back into be cleared." missed the 45-14 loss to Dallas straight game with a severe con­the old John Abraham shape." Linehan said the facial frac­Browns with a sprained right ankle. cussion, although he was well tures will heal without surgery. Joshua Cribbs' kickoff returns 
Givens started each of the first enough last week to join the Patriots The Rams signed linebacker of 65 and 53 yards in the second four games since signing an off­team on the sideline during its New England signed corner­Isaiah Kacyvenski, the quarter at Oakland swung season free agent contract with game against San Francisco. back Chidi Iwuoma on Seahawks' special teams captain momentum in Cleveland's favor, Tennessee and ranks fourth with In addition, left tackle Kyle Wednesday to provide depth in until being released on Saturday, leading directly to 10 points and eight receptions for 108 yards. Turley remained out of practice the injury-riddled secondary . and released safety Dwaine sparking the Browns to a 24-21 He caught one pass for 3 yards for the second straight week Iwuoma was released Sept. 6 Carpenter. come-from-behind win over the and ran once for 3 more yards with a back problem. after spending the past four sea­Offensive tackle Orlando Pace, Raiders. Cribbs, a quarterback on a reverse against Dallas. Turley missed all of last week sons with Pittsburgh. He was who missed last Sunday's game at Kent State who earned a ros­
Piller's injury means Jacob and was replaced by Jordan with Detroit for one season with a concussion, did limited ter spot last season as an Bell should start a second Black. Edwards did not sound before that. Last season he was work in practice on Wednesday undrafted free agent, was cho­straight game at left guard, with optimistic that he would be one of the special teams captains and was listed as questionable. sen AFC special teams player of David Stewart replacing Bell at ready for this week's game at for the Steelers. the week. right tackle. Arizona. The Patriots are expected to Bills Before joining the Browns, 
"He was a little bit better," be without starting cornerback Starting right guard Chris Cribbs had never returned kicks. Steelers Edwards said. "If he doesn't Ellis Hobbs (broken wrist) for a Villarrial did not practice But once he got his cleats wet, 
Cornerback Ricardo Colclough practice by tomorrow or the second straight game Sunday Wednesday because of a right and his helmet rattled a few said he may have a "serious" next day, he's not going to play." against Miami. Starting safety ankle injury and is expected to times doing it, the 23-year-old neck injury, but he hasn't Eugene Wilson (hamstring) miss this weekend's game at embraced the role. learned the results of tests. Falcons missed last Sunday's game at Chicago. 'The first time I did it, I got hit 
The Steelers have said only John Abraham, who hasn't Cincinnati. Villarrial was listed as doubt­really hard and I knew I could that Colclough reported the played since he won NFC defen­New England also has four ful, and coach Dick Jauron said withstand more," he said. injury after returning from their sive player of the week honors in defensive backs on injured he will need at least a week of "Taking back kicks is an oppor­three-day break last weekend. his first game with Atlanta, reserve: safeties Tebucky Jones rest. Jauron said tests revealed tunity to give the offense good The team hasn't played since returned to practice Wednesday. and Mel Mitchell, and corner­the injury was to a tendon in field position. It's me against 11 Colclough's muffed punt inside Abraham suffered a groin backs Randall Gay and Gemara Villarrial's ankle, and not a high guys. 

#15 MEN's SoccER

#1WOMEN's SoccER 

~~~m~~~~T 

1]:]1 

FJRST jQO FANs WILL REcE!VE ANoTRE DAME SoccER CoASTER 
FINAL REGULAR SEASON HoME GAMEl 


Thursday, October 5, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NHL 


Defending Stanley Cup chan1ps fall to Buffalo at hon1e 
Senators goalie Martin Gerber has 33 saves in Ott~wa's 4-1 season-opening victory over the Maple Leafs 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. -Daniel Briere figured out just in time how to help the Buffalo Sabres get the win they couldn't secure in June. 
Briere scored the only goal in a shootout and Ryan Miller stopped Carolina cold to give the Sabres a 3-2 victory over the Stanley Cup-champion Hurricanes on Wednesday night in a season-opening rematch of last season's Eastern Conference finals. 
Briere, the Sabres' first shootout skater, faked right and beat Cam Ward with a baekhan­der for the only goal in the tiebreaker. 
"I didn't know what I would do until I got there," Briere said. 
Jason Pominville and Chris Drury each had goals during regulation for the Sabres, who lost Game 7 and vowed to use the defeat as motivation this season. 
Before the season opener, they stayed in their locker room and listened to the raucous celebra­tion while the Hurricanes raised their championship banner and celebrated their first Cup title. 
"Their emotions were running high at the start," Miller said. "We just sat in here during the celebration, but we could hear it. I'm just really happy with the way we competed." 
Miller made 32 saves in regu­lation and overtime and then came up big in the shootout against a Hurricanes team that was 8-2 in the tiebreaker last season. 
"We had a couple of good opportunities. They just didn't go in," Carolina def'enseman Mike Commodore said. 
Ray Whitney missed the net on the first attempt, before Miller stopped Eric Staal with his stick on the second and blocked Erik Cole's weak attempt on the third. 
Ward stopped 30 shots, Staal and Cole had goals. and Whitney had two assists for the Hurricanes, who held one final pregame party with the Stanley Cup before they began the task of defending their title. 
"We had the time to celebrate, and we did so appropriately, and now we've got to turn the page," Ward said. 
During the 20-minute celebra­tion, flashbulbs popped, those rowdy 'Caniacs whooped it up, and the Scorpions' "Rock You Like a Hurricane" blared. Then, the championship banner ­commemorating the first major professional title won by a team from North Carolina -was raised to the rafters. 
The Sabres took over from there, withstanding a flurry of early shots by Carolina and eventually silencing the sellout crowd at the RBC Center. 
The Hurricanes fed off the crowd's early energy and out­shot the Sabres 11-1 during the opening minutes. 
"I've seen it go both ways, where a team has come out flat or come out and used the ener­gy," Hurricanes coach Peter Laviolette said. "I think we came out real strong, used the energy in the building." 
But Pominville gave Buffalo an early lead midway through the first period when he redirected Dmitri Kalinin's shot from the blue line to make it 1-0. That goal came about a minute after Cole's wrist shot from close range bounced ofT the left post. 


Ottawa 4, Toronto 1 
Martin Gerber made 33 saves, and the Ottawa Senators beat the Toronto Maple Leafs again by skating off with a victory in the season opener on Wednesday night. 
Patrick Eaves, Chris Neil, Cristoph Schubert and Daniel Alf'redsson scored for Senators, who lost top players Zdeno Chara and Martin Havlat in the offseason. 
They didn't need them against the Maple Leafs, who have been outscored 44-20 in losing eight of nine games to Ottawa. 
Mats Sundin scored on a breakaway for the Leafs, who are entering their 40th season since they last won the Stanley Cup. 
The provincial rivals will meet again in Ottawa on Thursday night. 
Before the game, the Maple Leaf's honored former greats Borje Salming, Red Kelly and Hap Day by raising their num­bers to the rafters. 
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper and Ontario premier Dalton McGuinty watched from the stands. 
Toronto had. a few good chances early but couldn't score on Gerber, who was signed to replace Dominik Hasek in the offseason. 
Gerber won 38 games for Stanley Cup champion Carolina last season before losing his starting job to eventual Conn Smythe Trophy winner Cam Ward. 
Ottawa jumped out to a 3-0 lead by the middle of the second period. 
Eaves scored on the power play at 19:29 of the first after Dany Heatley made a pass from behind the net to Tom Preissing, whose shot deflected off goalie Andrew Raycraft to Eaves. 
Neil made it 2-0 at 10:13 of the second by skating in on a 2­on-1 and putting a backhander over Raycraft's right shoulder before crashing into the net. 
Schubert scored just over a minute later after he shot the puck in ofT Raycraft. 
Just 30 seconds later, Ottawa's Anton Volchenkov took down Sundin on a breakaway _ caus­ing a penalty shot. Sundin's shot trickled under Gerber and just past the goal line. 
Dallas 3, Colorado 2 
Darryl Sydor came out of the penalty box to take a pass from goaltender Marty Turco and score the winning goal at 2:07 of overtime Wednesday night, and the Dallas Stars beat the Colorado Avalanche, extending their season-opening unbeaten streak to 10 years. 
Turco stopped several power­play shots from the Avalanche, the last one by Marek Svatos, before swatting the puck to Sydor as he streaked to center ice. Sydor took the puck in stride and beat Jose Theodore over his right shoulder. 
Sydor began the overtime in 
the penalty box for slashing after the third period ended. 
The Stars' 7-0-3 mark since 1995 is the fourth-longest unbeaten opening-night streak in NHL history. Colorado still owns the NHL's best opening­night record at 15-6-6. 
The Stars trailed 2-0 after two periods but tied it in the third on goals 28 seconds apart by Mike Modano and Loui Eriksson, then overcame the Avs' power play to beat the team that knocked them out of the playoffs five months ago. 
Dallas won a franchise-best 53 games last season only to be eliminated by the underdog Avalanche in the first round of the playoffs. 
The Stars added six-time All­Star center Eric Lindros, center Jeff Halpern, right wing Matthew Barnaby and Sydor, a defenseman, over the summer. Lindros was limited to 33 games last season in Toronto because of a wrist injury. 
The Avs' offseason was marked by another exodus of veterans. 
Rob Blake, Dan Hinote and Alex Tanguay followed last year's departing class of Peter Forsberg, Adam Foote and Paul Kariya out of town, and Steve Konowalchuk joined them when an EKG revealed a genetic dis­ease that can cause irregular heart rhythms and forced his into retirement. 
The Avs are counting on rook­ie forward Wojtek Wolski to fill the void left by the Tanguay trade, and he made an immedi­ate impression by scoring one of the Avs' two power-play goals in the first period, when the Avalanche outshot the Stars 22­7. 

1968 GRADUATE OF UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
FRED C. FRANCO JR. ATTORNEY AT LAW 
RETIRED PROSECUTOR (NEW JERSEY) 
LICENSED IN INDIANA & NEW JERSEV 
SPECIALIZING IN DEFENSE OF: 
TRAFFIC OFFENSES  FELONY  MISDEMEANORS  
RECKLESS DRIVING  BURGlARY  BA1TERY  
DUI  THEFT  RESISTING  
DWS  ROBBERY  BAD CHECKS  
INFRACTIONS  DRUG OFFENSES  SHOPLIFTING  
FRAUD  UNDERAGE DRINKING  
All MAJOR FELONIES  

FREE CONSULTATIONS OUR OFFICE IS A SHORT WALK FROM CAMPUS 1323 N. IRONWOOD DRIVE SOUTH BEND41 IN.. 46615 TOLL FREE 877-299-6779 INVESTIGATORS ON STAFF FOR CONSULTATIONS RADDE INVESTIGATIVE & SECURITY AGENCY, INC 
VISIT US ON THE WEB: WWW.WEBUSTBAOOUVS..BIZ 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 5, 2006 
Lapira 
continued from page 24 
could have had more [goalsJ. Anytime you get two goals on the road without conceding any, it's a good win." 
With the victory, the Irish improved their record to 8-3­2 (5-2-0). Although the game the Wolverine net. 
Lapira would double Notre Dame's lead in the 63rd minute off a misplay by Michigan keeper Patrick Sperry. The play started when Irish junior midfielder Kurt Martin sent a through ball behind the Michigan defense toward an onrushing Lapira. Sperry arrived a split second before Lapira, but his misplay 
against Big Ten-member Michigan won't have any implica­tions on the Big East con­ference stand­ings, Clark noted that regional victo­ries such as this one could improve Notre Dame's chances of an at-large bid if it doesn't win 

"It was a well-deserved win. We made a lot of good chances. and we could have had more [goals]. Anytime you get two goals on the road without conceding any. it's a good win." 
Bobby Clark Irish coach 
allowed the Irish forward to calmly deposit the ball into an open net. 
While Laplra continues to spark the Notre Dame offense, the Irish defense has turned in equally impressive performances as of late. Wednesday 
the automatic bid up for grabs at the Big East tournament. 
With the two goals, Lapira increased his total to 15 on the season and took over the national lead in the category. Entering the game, Lapira was tied with Winthrop's Isaac Saidi atop the NCAA goal list. Saidi scored once in Winthrop's 2-1 victory over UNC-Asheville 

7Lapira] makes
Wednesday. 

"[Lapira] chances. and he's one m a k e s ofthe best strikers in 
chances, and 

the country." 
he's one of the best strikers in the country," Bobby Clark Clark said. Irish coach 
"He's got to keep working at getting bet­ter. He still has the potential to grow." 
Lapira's first goal came in the 16th minute, and it was nearly a carbon copy of his goal against Seton Hall Saturday. Sophomore mid­fielder Cory Rellas picked up an assist in his second-con­secutive game as he sent in a cross that Lapira controlled and fired into the corner of was the team's third-consecu­tive shutout, and Notre Dame has allowed only one goal in its last five games. 
"The back four was very good today, but the defense starts with the forwards," Clark said. "We play a very good attacking, aggressive style of defense. We pressure teams very well all 
over the field, and everyone is tuned into the team philoso­phy." 
Notre Dame will return home to face Georgetown Saturday at noon. The Irish will be looking to pick up their third consecu­
tive conference win and fifth straight win. 
"The team has finally started to come together in the last couple weeks," Clark said. "This has kind of been our team's history. We start out a little slow, and then we build a little rhythm." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

ON TOP OF THE WORLD 

Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -The winless Tennessee Titans held a players-only meeting Wednesday, encouraged each other and pledged to recom­mit themselves. 
The Titans need all the cooperation they can muster to survive the next five games without tackle Albert Haynesworth, arguably their second-best defensive player. 
It won't be easy. 
The Titans (0-4) ranked last in the NFL in yards rushing with the physical 6-f'oot-6, 320-pound Haynesworth. Now they must face the league's hi.ghost-seoring offense in Peyton Manning and the Indianapolis Colts ( 4­
0) on Sunday. 
"We're at a point now where we're hopefully at rock bottom, and we have to find a way to climb our way out of it," Titans defensive end Kyle Vanden Bosch said. "It hurts. It hurts our defensive line. Everybody's kind of taken it upon themselves to pick up the slack and make up for, you know, what we're losing with Albert." 
Haynesworth had more starts and had played more games than any other defen­sive lineman for Tennessee and was the Titans' best run­stopper. But his unprecedent­ed suspension for kicking Dallas center Andre Gurode twice in the head, leading to 30 stitches, has left the Titans in a bind. 
With Haynesworth, the Titans are giving up an aver­age of 177 yards rushing ­worst in the NFL through the first four games. They haven't held an opponent under 100 yards since their season opening 23-16 loss to the New York Jets. 
They have allowed more than 390 yards in three of four games, holding only Miami under 290 yards and still losing. 
The Titans on Tuesday signed Tony Brown, a two-year player with four starts and 17 games to replace Haynesworth on the roster. Linebacker Keith Bulluck said replacing Haynesworth will be tough and requires a collective effort on defense. 
"Anybody who's seen Albert Haynesworth play knows that he's a force to be reckoned with, one of the better defensive tackles in this league, definitely up-and-coming or on the verge of making his mark in this league," Bulluck said. "You can't replace that man because he is so dominating when he's in there." 
Haynesworth's 27 tackles are first among the team's defen­sive linemen, with Vanden Bosch a close second at 26. 
Veteran Robaire Smith has been slowed by a strained right hamstring, and this is the first week he hasn't been on the injury report since the opener. Randy Starks is in his third sea­son, and rookie Jesse Mahelona is questionable with a sprained knee. 
Indianapolis coach Tony Dungy said he's always looked at one player's misfortune as another's opportunity. He cited Kurt Warner replacing Trent Green in St. Louis and Tom Brady taking over for injured Drew Bledsoe in New England as prime examples. 



Thursday, October 5, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
ITA 
continued from page 24 
Bass' performance. "He didn't handle crucial situations well. Hopefully that is something he corrected in practice this week." 
Nationally 20th ranked Notre Dame junior Sheeva Parbhu enters the tournament at 3-1 this season and 68-16 in his career. Parbhu won three of his four games at Notre Dame's Thomas Fallon Invitational Sept. 24. Parbhu fell to Western Michigan's 94th ranked Brady Crosby. 
Neither Parbhu nor Bass are new to the national circuit. Bass reached the quarterfmals of the 2005 National Indoors Champion-ship 
among the nation's elite." 
Bayliss hopes that the duo will once again succeed this week. Parbhu has worked on expanding the limits on his forehand, allowing him to hit deeper and harder and making him more of threat. Bayliss said Bass is no longer just focused on his defensive game -he has turned into an all-court player. 
The duo heads down to Oklahoma under the guidance of assistant coach Ryan Sachire. Sachire played the professional circuit before coming to Notre Dame and was among the top 300 in the ATP. Bass and Parbhu have had the advantage of competing against Sachire during practice this week -a challenge Bayliss hopes has made them stronger. 
"[Sachire is] experienced in 
tournament play," 

before falling to Georgia's John Isner 7-5, 7-6, (8­ "{Parbhu and Bass] have demonstrated  Bayliss said. ''I'm sure he will be able to help  
6). Parbhu advanced to the postseason in the spring of 2006  their ability to be among the nation ·s elite.,,  them." Bayliss added that he hoped the presence of  
when  he  Sachire would not  
advanced to the quarters of the NCAA Singles  Bobby Bayliss Irish coach  only help Bass and Parbhu in practice, but  
Championship  - would  also  

making the longest Irish tour­encourage them to perform nament run since 1959. well come match time. Parbhu's ride ended when he "It's an honor just to be in the succumbed to Virginia's Somdev tournament," Bayliss said. "But Devvarman 6-1, 6-3. we hope to do more than just 
"[Parbhu and Bass] have both show up." had high wins at the national level," Bayliss said. "They have Contact Deirdre Krasula at demonstrated their ability to be dkrasula@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles can't conquer the Knights 
echoed the final score from Belles outside hitter

Saint Mary's falls to 
the Sept. 22 match at Saint Kristen Playko and freshman Calvin in straight Mary's, also a 3-0 victory for Lorna Slupczynski led the 
the Knights. losing effort with 8 kills sets in MIAA match Belles coach Julie each. 
Schroeder-Biek was not dis­Senior Anne Cusack posted 
heartened by a solid defen­

By MICHAEL BRYAN 
the results. sive effort, 

Sports Writer "We played a 'The team learns from leading the 
very good these matches and match with The Belles went into Calvin team and our 19 digs.
approaches the next

looking to play the role of players While dis­spoiler Wednesday, but the responded competition with an even appointed by MIAA-leading Knights well to the stronger will to win. ,, the loss, squashed any hopes of an competition," Schroeder­upset with a dominating 3-0 Schroeder-Biek said that
Julie Schroeder-Biek

victory. Biek said. Calvin's suc­
Belles coach

The win was Calvin's sev­"The team cess this sea­enth in a row and kept the learns from son has posi­team undefeated in confer­these match-tive effects on ence play. Saint Mary's es and approaches the next the conference. dropped to 12-6 overall, 5-4 competition with an even "It's always wonderful for in MIAA play. stronger will the MIAA to have one of our 
Calvin, 17-1 to win." own recognized for their suc­overall, is cur­The Knights cess," she said. "Their high rently No. 19 "We played a very good strong per­level of play makes the entire in the Division formance was conference stronger."
team and our players

III coaches' led by senior Saint Mary's will try to
responded well to the

poll. Kristen Kalb, rebound from the loss in its Calvin began competition. ,, who recorded next match Friday at Olivet. the match a double-dou­The Comets are still look­strong, win­ble with 15 ing for their first win of the
Julie Schroeder-Biek

ning the first kills and 10 season at 0-16, and the
BeHes coach

game 30-16, digs. Belles will hope to avoid the and never let Setter Katie upset. up. The final Zondervan two games both ended in 30-also turned in a strong per­19 Saint Mary's defeats to formance with a match-high Contact Michael Bryan at finish the sweep. The result 38 assists. mbryan@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 5, 2006 

Schwapp 
continued from page 24 
Schwapp will be eligible for a medical redshirt since he par­ticipated in just two games this season. Any player who suffers an injury in the first three games and sits out the rest of the season because of the injury can apply for an extra year of eligibility, according to NCAA rules. 
Weis said the knee problem was a recurrence of an injury Schwapp suffered before he came to Notre Dame. 
"I don't know the extent of what it is because the injury is an old injury that just reoc­curred," Weis said. "I don't know how old that is, but [it didn't originate] while he was here." 
Weis said he is confident that backup fullback Ashley McConnell can continue to replace Schwapp without a drop in performance. 
"We haven't had [Schwapp] since Penn State, so there's no impact," Weis said. "We play the next guy." 
Weis said the number of two-back sets he called initial­ly dropped after Schwapp's injury but has returned to normal after three games with McConnell as the starter. 
With McConnell solidified as the No. 1 fullback, that moves freshman Luke Schmidt into the mix as the backup. At 6­foot-3 and 252 pounds, Schmidt came to Notre Dame with the potential to be a between-the-tackles, pound­ing halfback or a hole-opening fullback. 
"[Schmidt] has been steadily on the rise the whole season," Weis said. "He's fit in better at this point as a fullback, and he's made steady progress." 
But Weis said the freshman wouldn't be the only option for the Irish at the No. 2 fullback spot. Without elaborating, Weis said he had some ideas about what the team could do. 
Notes: 
+ Weis said the player he is least sure will return to the field this week is running back Travis Thomas, who suffered a rib injury on the last play of the game against Michigan State and did not play against Purdue. Weis called Thomas "iffy" to play against Stanford. 
"When you have sore ribs, running around is not the issue, getting hit is the issue," Weis said. "If [Thomas] does­n't play this week, it'll have nothing to do with anything but precautionary measures." 
+ 
Weis said he is "encour­aged" by the progress of Notre Dame's No. 3 receiver, David Grimes. Weis said Grimes had a "95 percent" chance of avoiding missing prolonged time because of his injury. 

+ 
Weis also said that injured cornerback Ambrose Wooden, who has not played since Notre Dame lost to Michigan in Week 3, looks close to starting against Stanford. 

+ 
Kickoff specialist Bobby Henkes has taken all his usual kickoffs in practice this week after sitting out the Purdue game with a muscle strain. 


Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

Flot Screen TVs in every boothI 
#1 
Sports Bar
SPORTS BAR 
j 

t:'?anzp£U _57ho-ppt2~. _57o-u~h L?12n.d 
vvvvvv.Betvveent:heBuns.com 
---~-~ 
teams heading in opposite year's final, the Phoxes have directions. every intention of getting back

Ducks 
The Phoxes (4-0) have been to the Stadium to reverse the continued from page 24 the team to beat in the early outcome. Their four wins guar­season, recording victories antee them a spot in the play­Thursday's game. over Farley, Howard, McGlinn offs and a win tonight should 
Krug said she is excited and last year's champions, the clinch the No. 1 seed. about the progress her team Purple Weasels of Pasquerilla "The key to our success so has shown in the past couple West. far has been how well the team and games, and thinks her Lewis (0-4) has not fared as gelled," Pangborn captain team is ready to take on the well. The Chicks have lost to Katie Hiemorsma said. "We Weasels. Howard, have a lot of returning players 
"I hopn McGlinn, so everyone knows what to do
"We got a taste ofhow

that we can B r e e n -on the field. Everyone's on the build on successful we can be when Phillips and same page." what WH did Pasquerilla The most intriguing story on
both the offense and the 

on Sunday," West. But the Pangborn squad might just
defense play up to their

Krug said. they hope to be the play of its lone freshman "We got a ability, and hopefully we play spoiler starter, Meghan Bescher. With taste of how to the her speed, Bescher is a threat
will do just that [today}." 

successful Phoxes. at wide receiver, defensive we can be Pangborn back and kick returner. Only
Catherine Krug 

when both has played four games into the season, the offensn Howard captain with a fire in Bescher has seven touchdowns 
and the defense play up to their ability, and hopefully we will do just that [today]." 
McGlinn vs. Farley 
Farley's Finest hope to extend their two-game winning streak tonight at 8 when they face McGlinn at Riehle West Field. 
McGlinn has fought hard this season but has finished on the short end more times than not. The Shamrocks fell 25-6 to Breen-Phillips Sept. 24, and their disappointment continued last week when Howard shut out the Shamrocks, 20-0. 
"We've had a tough start to the season, but the team has been practicing very hard and we're hoping that everything will start coming together in [tonight's] game," said McGlinn captain Madeline Boyer. 
McGlinn will have to play well to reverse its fortunes against a confident Farley team. 
"Last week we had a great week and gained a lot of momentum," Farley captain Kim Crehan said. "Everyone played so well, and I'm proud of the way our team has come together." 
Like all teams, the Finest have their eyes set on the playoffs, and Crehan said she hopes Farley's recent per­formances will propel it to its goal after a rocky start to the season. 
The Finest had to play both teams from last year's champi­onship game -Pangborn and Pasquerilla West -in their opening two games. Farley picked up losses on both of these matchups, but the team didn't let those games ruin the season. After topping Howard, the Finest dominated both sides of the ball and topped Breen-Phillips in a 20-6 win Sunday. 
Pangborn vs. Lewis 
Tonight's 9 p.m. contest at Riehle West Field between the Pangborn Phoxes and the Lewis Chicks features two 
its eyes all and six interceptions. season, not quick to forget its shutout loss in the Stadium for Contact Kate Donlin at last season's championship. kdonlin@nd.edu and 
With a squad full of upper­Matt Hopke at classmen that starred in last mhopke@nd.edu 

• Clear Coat
OFF 
• Premium Soti Clot!J Wash
OUR 
• Polish-n-Sea!er Wax Applied 
• 2-Step Underbody
BEST 
Protectant 
52694 State Road 933 South Bend. Indiana 46637 
Just north of Notre Oame on U.S. 31
WASH 
Wanted ~d pajntings~ Indiana arti~s and Notre Dame arti~s. 
CHEESE, PEPPERONI, OR ITALIAN SAUSAGE 


-------------~~---­

Thursday, October 5, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE

JOCULAR 

-r\-\IN~ Tl-\~'\ 1'-'\\u\-\T 'Wl-\A.T 'f04 Pu~l.-\~'r\ \!'\\':> Cll"-.£? "'f\.\oUC::IHT A.&CUT ''AL-ui'-\N \ r-IE.EJ) -ro 
S\-lu1' "7liE.. \--\Et..\... uP.'' 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DEEXU 
[ J I (] 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
DARNB 
I I I 
NAKTIE 
± 

www.jumble.com 
DIRNEH 
j 
I Jumbles: 
Wednesday's 
Answer: 
CHANT 
What must be learned to become a diamond cut­ter? -MANY "FACETS" 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
I can't make enough loaves by myself 
JO 
lo 

-============== 
THE: BAKE:!<. Hll<t:P 
AHt:LPt:R Bt:cAUSt: 
He: H.A.D A--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 
MOLDY SOLACE FLAXEN 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Have the blues Lotion letters 34 Book by 4 Cross against 
Madonna traffic, e.g. 35 Soup vegetables ... and a hint to 

8 Sole support? 
20-, 30-, 45-and 

12 Falsehood 
52-Across

14 Item for a travel 
38 _-relief
bag 
40 Leftovers

15 Czarist noble 
41 Ice formations 

17 Lab gel 
45 Funnel-shaped18 :·Th~. way I see 
flowers 
It ... 
47 Interchangeable

19 Arthur of 
unit 
"Bewitched" 

48 Man Friday20 Seven-time 
49 Hip home 
Wimbledon 
50 Calendar abbr. 
winner 
51 Manhattan

23 Fish story 
chaser? 

24 Commercial 
52 Chef Auguste 
resin 

Escoffier 25 How-dos 
creations 

26 Escape 56 Fractional part? punishment 
58 Place for a 28 Canine's coat warp and a 30 Outward heddle appearances 59 Middle sax? 32 Noodle on a so "Steppenwolf' banjo author 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=+=+:=+::+.::+:-i 31 Omar of TV's · "House" 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
61 Capt. Holmes of "From Here to Eternity" 
62 Suds 63 Entree eaten with a spoon 64 Eddie's Beverly Hills cop 65 Like some wine 
DOWN 1 Bread and butter, e.g. 2 Where swimsuits may 
be worn 3 Freight train unit 4 Army chore 5 Mighty mites 6 Beef cut 7 Ticket info, 
maybe 8 Kicks around 9 Silver of the 

screen 1o"The Wizard of Oz" event 11 Home of Canada's main naval base 13"_Time transfigured 
me": Yeats 16 Coral groups 21 One of a show 
biz threesome 22 Go along (with) 27 Like rodeo 
riders, eventually 29 Tousle 
30 "Designing Women" woman Annie 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Gary Stelnmehl 

33 "Look!," in Lima 42 Had a street 49 It may get fight charged or get
36 River through charges

43 Bad winner 
Tours 44 Picking up 53 "Paper Lion" 
37 Place to hang signals star, 1968 one's hat 

45 Scam, modern­
54 Cajole

38 Bugs in a style garage 55 Test site 
46 Certain heir 39 Whatever else 47 Mustang or 57 Orlando-to­you may say impala, e.g. Miami dir. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Rachael Leigh Cook, 27; Alicia Silverstone, 30; Armand Assante, 57; Susan Sarandon, 60 
Happy Birthday: This year is all about getting your life back on track. The growth and expansion that result will be what makes this year one to remember. Your numbers are 5, II, 17, 29, 33, 42 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Keep track of what is going on around you. If you are too wrapped up in what you have to do, you will miss what someone is trying to sneak past you. Money can be made through property, investments, an insurance claim, a rebate or winnings. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A partnership will have to be dealt with today. Be honest about the way you feel and what you would like to see happen. If you overreact, you will create long-term problems for yourself. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may have new acquaintances eating out of your hand but the people who know you well will be questioning what you are doing. Children will offer you an insightful view of your current situation. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Look beyond what's immediately around you. Don't let the people you are close to cloud your vision. Travel or checking out different lifestyles will give you the answers and solutions you are looking for. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Get involved, be a participant and you will soon realize what you want to do with the rest of your life. Check out educational needs. It won't be as difficult as you think once you start the ball rolling. 3 stars 
VffiGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't look for help when you should do the work yourself. Emotions will stand in the way of accomplishment. Traveling back to places you used to enjoy will stir memories and reconnect you to someone special. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Gratification can be yours if you put all your efforts into the things that mean the most to you. Children will give you a fresh outlook. Your intuition and emotional outlook will lead you in the right direction. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone is looking out for you, giving you options and ideas that can help you get past a time of uncertainty and confusion. Use your head and your vivid imagination and you will get ahead. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Check things over yourself rather than taking someone else's word for it. Go easy on others; listen, watch and wait. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your thoughts should be on progress, direction and making more money. A trip may be enticing but it won't bring the rewards you are looking for. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A change in your outlook and attitude will jumps tart your future. Check out the possibilities of going back to school. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19·March 20): Everything will start to fall into place if you have been doing things by the book. Money is heading your way but someone will want to take it as fast as you receive it. Have a game plan in place. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have spunk, durability and courage. You are original, playful and determined to do things right. You have great potential and desire to help others. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, October 5, 2006 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Schwapp's season ends 
Weis says sophomore will have surgery today to repair knee 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 

Notre Dame sophomore full­back Asaph Schwapp will have surgery on his left knee today and miss the rest of the season, Irish coach Charlie Weis said Wednesday. 
"From watching him today, he's not going to be able to play [this season]," Weis said. "The question isn't if we 'II have to have him in to get fixed, the question is when.... By having [the surgery] now, you have a chance at having him back for spring [prac­tices)." 
Schwapp played in Notre Dame's season-opening wins against Georgia Tech and Penn State. His left knee "locked up on him" once in practice early this season and then late in the Penn State contest, Weis said. 
see SCHWAPP/page 22 

Irish fullback Asaph Schwapp (44) runs by Midshipman linebacker Rob Caldwell and the Navy defensive line in Notre Dame's 42-21 win Nov. 12, 2005. 
MEN'S TENNIS 
ND's Bass, Parbhu to playinITA 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Sports Writer 
Senior captain Stephen Bass will lead Notre Dame as it begins the ITA All-American Championships in Oklahoma today. Bass hopes to get back on track this weekend after a tough beginning to his fall season. 
Bass, No. 21 in the Fila Collegiate Tennis Hankings, posted a 1-2 record at the Wolverine Invitational Oct. 1. He triumphed early over Boise State's Piotr Dilaj 6-3, 7-5, only to struggle in his follow­ing matches -falling to Michigan's Brian Hung 6-2, 6­2 and Vanderbilt's 28th ranked Hyan Preston 6-4, 6-3. Despite these setbacks, Bass still boasts a 74-35 career record. 
"I didn't see it coming," said Irish coach Bobby Bayliss of 
see ITA/page 21 
MEN's SOCCER 

Lapira, Irish blank Michigan 

ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer Irish forward Joseph Lapira strikes a corner kick in Notre Dame's 3-0 win over DePaul Sept. 10 at Alumni Field. 
Junior forward has 8 goals in team's 4­game winning streak 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
Junior forward Joseph Lapira scored two goals Wednesday, and the Irish defense, led by senior goal­keeper Chris Cahill, held Michigan scoreless en route to No. 8 Notre Dame's 2-0 win over the Wolverines in Ann Arbor. 
If the stats sound familiar, they should. 
His performance was the fourth consecutive multi-goal game for the junior, the third shutout in four games for the Irish defense, and -most importantly for Notre Dame coach Bobby Clark -Notre Dame's fourth consecutive victory. 
"It was a well-deserved win," Clark said. "We made a lot of good chances, and we 
see LAPIRA/page 20 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Ducks set for big gatne 
vs. defending champs 
Finest looking for 3 in a row in contest with the Shamrocks 
By KATE DONLIN and MATT HOPKE Sports Writers 
The Howard Ducks will have their work cut out for them tonight at 7 as they try to take down the defending league champions from Pasquerilla West at Riehle West Field. 
Last Sunday, the Weasels improved their record to 3-1 on the season with a 26-6 rout of Lewis. Pasquerilla West's wins have come against Breen­Phillips, Farley and Lewis. The Weasels' only loss this season was to Pangborn in a rematch of last year's championship game. 
"I think the number of return­ing players and coaches we have gives us a certain level of experience and maturity that has shown through in our play," Weasels captain Mo Spring said. "Just as important, we have a great group or freshmen that are enthusiastic and have fit in really well with the team chem­istry." 
Howard comes into the con­test with momentum on its side. Last week the Ducks dominated McGlinn in a 20-0 win. 
"We really pulled everything together on both sides of the ball," Howard captain Catherine Krug said. "Our oll'ense was on track and our defense really stepped up with some big inter­ceptions." 
The Ducks' season has been a series of ups-and-downs so far. In their first game, they edged out a 6-0 win over Lewis. But Howard was unable to contain the quick Pangborn offense in the second game of the season and fell to the Phoxes. More recently, the Ducks lost against Farley Oct. 29. 
But the big win Sunday against McGlinn has left Howard feeling optimistic about 
see DUCKS/page 22 

SMC VOlLEYBAll 
NFL 
NHL 
MlB-ALDS
NFL 
MLB-NLDS 
LLI C.) Calvin 3 


Sabres 3 Cowboys at EaglesTitans at Colts 
A's 5 
Mets 6
In-z Saint Mary's 0 Sunday, 4:15 p.m.

Sunday, 1 p.m. 

Hurricanes 2 Twins 2 Dodgers 5 
s 

The Belles fall to the 
Daniel Briere scores 
Terrell Owens andTennessee travels to Torii Hunter's misplay 

Carlos Delgado has= ca: MIAA-leading Knights 
Indianapolis without a 

the only goal in a 
Donovan McNabb are allows Mark Kotsay to 

four hits, including the in straight sets. 
win and missing its top 

shootout to give Buffalo 
not saying much before score on an inside-the­

go-ahead homer for defensive lineman. 
the opening day victory. 
the matchup. 
park homer. 
New York.
t:i 

page 21 page 20 page 17 page 14
page 19 
page 14
"' 









