
.------------------------------------------------------~---­
THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Panel discusses sexuality in 'Monologues' 
By PETER NINNEMAN 
News Writ~r 
!irnotional testimonies and eonflicting rnaetions marknd the panni discussion following Tuesday's performance of "The Vagina Monologuns," which fea­turnd an anthropologist, a priest and a thnologian examining the issuns and goals of tho produc­tion. 
Notre Dame students pnr­fornwd the play Tunsday for the seeond of three Limes this wenk in DeBartolo llall -a change from last year's DeBartolo Performing Arts Center venue spurn~d by University President Father John Jenkins' ongoing discussion on academic freedom 

Cabs, students clash over practices 
DUSTIN OVl~"'"~'CI.JV 

City Cab driver Ross Vardaman waits In Main Circle for a pick-up Tuesday. Though depend­ent on cabs, students have expressed dissatisfaction with some companies' practices. see CABS/page 3 
--__-___-_ 
----~============================================================================================= 
and Catholic character. 
Anthropology professor Carolyn Nordstrom brought to the panel discussion her person­al experiences with victims of rape camps and child trafficking rings on the frontlines of wars. 
"I have seen entire towns where every single woman, even children, were raped," Nordstrom said. "I have docu­mented hundreds of cases where peacn has been built from dialogues like this." 
She said that whenever she has witnessed child trafficking rings or rape camps being bust­ed, she has seen women gather­ing together to tell their stories, much like what occurs in some 
see PANEL/page 4 

Saint Mary's professor wins CHOICE avvard 
By KATIE KOHLER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's political science proli~ssor Snan Savage joined an nlitn group of authors last month, winning the 2005 CHOICE Outstanding Aeademie Title 
Award for his 2004 book, ".IFK. LBJ and the Demo­cratic Party." 
CHOICE, a professional journal used in college libraries acr­


oss America, Savage announees the annual award in each year's .January issue. The journal hon­ored fewer than 10 percent of the 11eld of 6,964 titles reviewed, induding Savage's work. 
"I honestly don't know (how I won(," Savage said of being dis­tinguished from such a large pool. 
CliOICE bases its judging crite­ria on three elemenl<> -the eval­uation of the overall work, the author's knowledge of the field and the author's previous record of works. 
CIIOICE described Savage's work as "a richly detailed, com­prehensive, and provocative account of presidential party 
leadership  in  the  turbulent  
1960s."  
The  Journal  of  American  

History also offered a strong 
see SAVAGE/page 4 
ND graduate presents at festival 
By RYAN SYDLIK 
News Writer 

The Notre Dame Literary Festival brought in a writer more familiar with the University than most when organizers chose Tasha Alexander as one of the event's headlinnrs. 
Alexander, who spoke Tuesday night, graduated from Notre Dame in 1992 and is the daugh­ter of two Notre Dame philoso­phy professors. Writing under a pseudonym -her real name is Tasha Tyska -she is the author of the Victorian era thriller, "And Only to Deceive" (2005). 
A first time author, Alexander said she was "incredibly lucky" to get her book published. 
After hunting for agents, Alexander found one she liked and o-mailed a copy of the frrst 
South Bend attorney Nash ready to address complaints 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
Assistant News Editor 
Bars, bowling alleys, ofT-campus parties and movie theaters all bring to mind week­ends in a college town -but in South Bend, they also inspire thoughts of long waits for overcrowded taxi cabs. 
While students may feel at the mercy of cab companies, these same companies are often frustrated by no-show callers and belligerent passengers. 
Student dissatisfaction with some com­mon cab eompany practices ha.<> caught the attention of Assistant City Attorney Ann­Carol Nash, who has received numerous complaints from students about cab com­panies in the South Bend area. 
"Notre Dame student.<> are of't.en seen a.<> 

few chapters to that agent to create curiosity. An hour later, she received a response asking her to send the rest of the text. 
When the time came for tho publisher to make an offer, Harper Collins said it would be delightnd to publish her novel. All she had to do, they said, wa.<> change her name. 

At first, Alexander was unsurn about using a pseudonym, but 
see FESTIVAL/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Shappell, Andrichik celebrate 
Officers-elect plan for upcoming term 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
Assistant News Editor 
After dealing four opposing tick­ets a crushing defeat in the stu­dent body presidential and vice presidential general election Monday night, juniors Lizzi Shappell and Bill Andrichik said they will waste no time tackling the "hot-button" issues they believe won them the race. 
"It's sinking in more and more," Shappell said Tuesday. "Last night wa.<> a bit of a shoek. It's starting to be a littln morn rmtl in my mind. I'm going through all the steps in my head. 
"It's inherently more relaxing than it would havn bonn had Jthn elnctionJ gone and all the work wn have to do ... but at the same time just trying to enjoy it." 
Instead of engaging in three days of whirlwind eampaigning leading up to a run-olT election, Shappell and Andrichik are bw·>k­ing in the glow of victory and set­ting their sights on April 1 ­whnn thny will a.<>sume thnir posi­tions and bngin tackling a lof't.y list of goals a.<> student body president and vkn presidnnt. 
Asked to describe tl1dr adminis­tration in onn or two words, Andriehik chose "working rela­tionship'' and Shappell ehose "proaetive." 
The pair said tlmy want to "hit tho ground running" by immedi­ately attacking campaign goals 
see WINNERS /page 3 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, February 15, 2006 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Please note the headshot 
Hello there. As you turned to the inside page of the The Observer, I bet you couldn't help but notice that I have a picture that goes along with my article. It's okay to be impressed. As you read this 
article, I would suggest you eon­stantly reference my picture with the corner of your eye to drive home the points I am making. 
It's hard to get a 

picture to go Adam Fairholm along with your article. Joey 
Falco, Scott Cartoonist 
Wagner and Pat Leonard all have pictures with their articles. Their pictures are notably the best I've seen by the way. So Joey, Scott, or Pat, if you are reading this, yours are notably the best I've seen. 
But anyways, you've got to go down to The Observer office and they have to take a picture of you. 
You've got to have a blank expres­sion that says, "I mean business" and is not inappropriate for re-use. Example: your picture has to work with not only articles like "You Killed My Grandma" or "I Love My Grandma," but also articles like "Your Grandma Killed Me" or "''ve Got AIDS." 
Which brings me to my next point. 
Whatever happened to that guy who had a unicycle on campus? Did he graduate or something? He proba­bly graduated. 
When you have a picture with your article, there is an aura around your article. A lot of the articles in The Observer don't have pictures, and therefore many don't have auras. Example: If you've got some article in Scene reviewing "Grand Burglary Larceny Rape Booger Challenge Assault 4" for PS2 or PSP or you know, whatever, then I am going to take you a lot more seriously if I can see how serious you are in your pic­ture. 
Even if I don't play video games I am going to sit there and consider your opinion and look at your pic­ture. I will say to your picture, "I have listened to what you have to say about 'Grand Burglary Larceny Rape Booger Challenge Assault 4' and I will consider purchasing this item because I see you are serious about this." 
Or if you are doing a news story, I can see you are serious about the news. News reporters, I am giving you some advice. The advice is don't smile in your picture, because I want someone serious giving me the news. That way I could stop you in the _hall­way and say, "Thanks for being seri­ous about that." Or not. You know, whatever. 
Many great men in history have had pictures that go along with their articles-or would have, had they gone to Notre Dame and worked for The Observer. I think I'm out of space. That's one of the downsides of having a picture to go along with your article. You run out of spa 
Contact Adam Fairholm at afairhol@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU DO FOR VALENTINE'S DAY? 





for all of Whip with my Fisher." girlfriend." 
IN BRIEF 
Keith Beauchamp, civil rights activist and filmmaker, will discuss his documentary "Thtl Untold Story of Emmett Louis Till" tonight at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center auditori­um. 
Poet Rane Arroyo will lecture at 7:30 p.m. tonight in the McKenna Ilall Auditorium. The event is cosponsored by the Creative Writing Program and the Institute for Latino Studies as part of the 2006 Literary Festival and is open to the pub­lic. 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team will take on the University of South Florida at 
7:30 p.m. tonight in the Joyce Center. 
The Saint Mary's psychology department will host a lecture by Notre Dame head football coach Charlie Weis Thursday at 1 p.m. in the Vander Vennet Theatre in the Student Center. Weis will discuss autism and global delays as part of psy­chology week at the College. 
The Saint Mary's College Dance Ensemble Workshop will host its annual perform­ances Friday at 7:30 p.m. and Saturday at 2:30p.m. and 7:30 in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The programs will include ballet, jazz and modern dance. 
Black Koffeehouse, a show­case of African American art, literature and music expressed in the Notre Dame community, will take place Friday at 7 p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 16 HIGH 
26 

LOW 9 LOW 
20 

Ryan Bravo Pat Bowe Kat Piscatello Tom Hessert Jenny Heenan Matthew Baca 
junior junior freshman junior freshman freshman Fisher Fisher· Welsh Family Fisher McGlinn Fisher 
"Being fine with "Had a no-date "Had a no-date "Asked my "Baked cookies "Had some Cool 
this kid.,, date with Kat., date with Pat. ,, cousin Jenny to 
be my valentine, but she said it ·would be illegal in most states." 


PAMELA LOCK/The Observer From left, Jackie Clark, Nick Kraft, Kamaria Porter and Joe Murphy, members of the Campus Labor Action Project, demonstrate in support of increasing University employees' salaries outside of South Dining Hall Tuesday. 
OFFBEAT 
Man receives ten-year sen­tence, promptly marries 
WEST CHESTER, Pa. ­A man married his bride in a courtroom immedi­ately after he was sen­tenced ·to at least a decade in prison. 
Cassandre LaFortune, dressed in a white gown, listened to Akram "Ish" Jones enter his Alford plea, then stepped for­ward to marry him. 
When the judge asked her if she knew what· she was getting into, Jones interrupted and said, "Your honor, I don't mean to be rude, but she pro­posed to me." 
Jones wore a gray suit, tie and shackles on his wrists and ankles, which sheriff's deputies removed before the wed­ding Tuesday. After the ceremony, the newlyweds posed for photos with 17 family members in atten­dance. 
'Black Widow' wins grilled cheese eating contest 
NEW YORK -A 100­pound woman ate 26 grilled cheese sandwiches in 10 minutes at a New York restaurant, winning the World Grilled Cheese Eating Championship. 
Sonya Thomas won 
$8,000 for the contest at the Planet Hollywood restaurant in Times Square on Wednesday but said she was disappointed in her performance. 
"I could have done bet­ter," she said, adding that she was aiming for 30 sandwiches. 
Thomas, who is known as the "Black Widow" on the competitive circuit, says she has a naturally big stomach capacity and heavily soaked her sand­wiches in water to make them easier to swallow. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::c !ci: 
LLI 
~ 
..... 
<
CJ ..... 0 HIGH 39 HIGH 35 HIGH 46 HIGH 25 LOW 35 LOW 26 LOW 25 LOW 14 

Atlanta 28 I 26 Boston 38 I 26 Chicago 41 I 25 Denver 29 I 27 Houston 40 I 38 Los Angeles 53 I 51 Minneapolis 20 1 18 New York 37 I 25 Philadelphia 49 I 47 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 35 I 30 St. Louis 33 I 30 Tampa 62 I 34 Washington 42 I 27 
Wednesday, February 15, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Cabs 
continued from page 1 
nasy targnl'i by pnopln who are not IL'i reputable IL'i they should bn," she said. 
Nash said the complaints include reporl'i of drivnrs stufl'­ing unsali1 numbers of passen­gers in eabs and eharging stu­dnnl'i excessive and not agreed­upon fares, as well as eompa­nins refusing to send studenl'> a cab latn at night. 
"I certainly sympathize with pt1oplt1 who want to get from a nightclub to home or campus," she said. "That's the sort of thing I want to work very hard !fori to <Teate a better environ­ment." 
South Bend licenses taxis, so the city can take away the liennses of drivers who violate regulations. Na'ih said she plans to develop amendments to the city ordinance governing cab companies and to improve enforcement of the existing ordinanee. 
'Tm worrind about thn quality of the taxi service lstud<ml'i are! rncniving," Nash said. 'Tm try­ing to tighten enforcmnent so studnnLr.; arnn't taknn advantage of or madn to filnl unsafe." 
Whiln Nash said it is "inappro­priatn" for a cab company to rllf'usn s11rvicn httn at night. cab company r11presentatives say it is not always possible to send customers a cab in a timely manner on busy weekend nighL'i. Some companies recom­rnnnd that callers contact anoth­er company. while others expect callers to wait for an eventual ridn. 
"If wn can't get !the cus­tonwrsl in a reasonable time. like :m minutes ... we tdl them we don't have cabs available," said Walter .Jones. owner of ABC Cab. "Sometimes lcus­tom<1rsl don't even get a cab from any company in town." 
no-show eustomnr is eallod, his 
time and gas is wasted -a fac­
tor that drivos up rams. 
Senior Sarah Gelwieks said 
she thinks cabs are convenient. 
but she ha'i spnnt time on many 
nights waiting for a cab to 
arrive. 

"It takes forever," she said. "Either there [arel a lot of peo­ple trying to get a eab and not nnough leabsl or you call a cab and someone else takes it." 
In any case, the wait is typi­cally longer than the company predicL'l, Gelwieks said. 
"They usually tell you it will be there in 20 minutes, and it gets there after 40 minutes," she said. 
When a driver is sent to pick up passengers, the cab often becomes jam-packed with stu­dents eager to reach their desti­nation. The law says each pas­senger must have a seatbelt, but drivers arc motivated to collect the fares of additional passen­gers, while passengers often want to save money with group discount rates and avoid sepa­rating from their group of friends. 
Sophomore Jimmy Newman ha'> sharnd numorous cab rides with morn passengers than the law would allow, a situation he said was initiatod by the cabs' drivers. 
"They would just keep pack­ing people in and say an excuse, that it's the last cab of the night," he said. "They'd try to pack tons of people in with no soatbelt.s." 
Jones said it is not uncommon to find small cabs brimming with eight or nine studenl'>. 
"That's dangerous," he said. "If parents knew that, they'd have a hoart attack. If insurance companios knew. they'd have a he.art attack ~nd then they'd nuse the rates. 
When asked how he address­es city regulations like the seat­belt rule, Jones said he can only encourage his drivers not to said. The company's flag drop, or rate to get into the eab. is $2 and the per mile rate is $2. When five or more passengers ride by van, they can travel up to three miles for $3 per stu­dent. 
Checker City Cab ha<; a $7 per party minimum. Like ABC Cab. Cheeker City Cab charges a $2 flag drop. followed by $1.40 per mile, Jan said. A $1 gas sur­charge is also added to the party's meter. 
These prices are not always understood by students. .Junior Kate Moran said she expects to pay a set fare for short rides. 
"Sometimes I think prices can be completely arbitrary," she said. "But normally it's the stan­dard $2." 
Each company has speeial rates for popular destinations like South Bend Airport. 
"I think the economics of cabs is not understood by students," Jones said. 
.Jones also noted that when an occasional student vomits in a cab. the company is forced to pay an expensive bill to clean the cab's interior. 
"It's not unreasonable to expect to make enough money to clean it up," he said. 
While Nash expressed con­cern about cab companies' com­pliance with city regulations. United Cab driver Bob I Ioftinan said companies are aware that they must follow the rules. 
'The city does keep checking on taxi companies to see how they're operating," he said. 
He admitted that some drivers do allow students to "load up" on Friday or Saturday nights, but said the decision is left to students. 
"Very, very seldom do we have any problems," HotTman said. "!The studenlr.;] are a very good bunch of people to work with." 
Contact Karen Langley at 
klanglel@nd.edu 
Winners 
continued from page 1 
that cover a wide spectrum of stu­dent life issues. If they deliver on their word, results will be t.an!-,rible come fall. 
Andrichik said he is confident new items will be addod to Grab­and-Go when students arrive on eampus in August. Three or four additional food choices will be selected bar.;ed on a student survey to be conducted this semester, he said. 
Possible additions include ramen noodles, popcorn and soups, Andrichik said. 
And thanks to a $15 increa'le in the student activities fee that will take effect next year, three national newspapers will be available daily for free at different poinl'l around campus. The College Readership Program was piloted at Notre Dame last year and won positiw1 feedbaek from student.<; -prompting student government to pursue implement­ing the program permanently. 
But concerns have been raised regarding the number of newspa­pers that will actually be available each day -estimates hover around 2,000 -since the money allotted for the program will not be enough for each student to get a newspapnr. 
To counter this. Shappell said she wants to create a recycling system that would encourage students to return their papers to a bin, so that several student.<; can mad the same copy. 
"But if the !College Headershipl Program takes on·. we're hoping to seek funding from other resources" to purcha<;e more papers and not have to rely on recycling. Shappell said. 
like her predecessor, current stu­dent body president Dave Baron, Shappell said her administration plans to work tirelessly at improv­ing community relations -starting as early as the Feb. 27 meeting of the South Bend Common Council. There, six student speakers will address the Council to "display that we want to take an aetive part in city government," Shappoll said. 

"We want to explain tho initia­tivos we're taking to improve com­munity relations," she said. "Spm:ifieally our issues with the nnw ldisordorly house) ordinan<:e Imeant to curb student partying! ... and how we believe that with the first oll'ense evietion, the punishment doesn't always fit the erimn." 
Shappell and Andriehik alr.;o want to enlist the help of' the Notre Dame Law School for legal consultation regarding the ordinanee. 
Student.r.; ean also expect Student Senate committee meetings to become more visible, since Shappoll wants to relocate some meetings to more public locations like rnsidence halls and academic buildings. 
''I'm proud of the strides Dave and I have made this year," Shappell said. "But as far a<; the stu­dent apathy question goes. that is a constant battle for studenl<; to feel like student government is accessi­ble and working f(lr their day to day needs." 
Shappell said having committee meetings "on location" provides "a more personal c:onneetion for stu­denl'l and student government." 
Shappell and Andriehik also said they will t.<tilor thnir goals to fit any issues that arise following University Pn1sident Father John Jenkins' recent addresses on aca­demic freedom and the University's Catholic eharader. 
"Jenkins will bo visiting !Student! Senate in a month, but we don't know how much !the issue! will earry over from this administration to the next," Shappell said. 
But Shappell hopos to "eontinue to solicit student opinion" on aea­demic freedom fL'i long as the dia­logue and debate persists on cam­pus. 
Shappell and Andriehik sneured 
51.78 percent of the vote in Monday's eledion. just enough to avoid a run-off eleetion. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
The problem arises because companins sometimes receive hundred of calls in a fi1w hours, said .Jan, a Checker City Cab dispatcher who dedinnd to give hnr hL'it name. 
Given the concentrated dmnand for cabs, Jan -said a lengthy wait is sometimes unavoidable. Though this may bn inmnvenient. she doseribed a call li1r a eab ar.; a verbal agree­mnnt that is violated if a prospeetive par.;senger calls rival companies to see whieh cab arrives most quickly. 
"When you order a cab, you'rn suppos11d to be rnady filr how11vnr long it takes," Jan said. "I work filr a cab company. and I have waitnd two hours for a cab." 
.lorws said students do not understand how frustrating it is to <:ab eompanios whnn tho stu­c!Pnts call rnultipln eornpanies and tak<l a ride from whiehnvor drivor shows up first. When a cab drivPr "gpts a void." as a overload their cabs. 
"You don't have full control because you're not in the cab with them,'' .Jones said. 
Jan, who formerly worked as a driver, attested to the difliculty of turning down an extra stu­dent on a cold South Bend night. 
"When I was driving, we had kids begging, 'Please let our friend in."' she said. "It's hard to turn down a really tiny girl, who could just share a seat, and make her stand out in the cold because her friends are already in the cab." 
The subject of cab fares is also marknd by miseommunica­tion between studenlr.; and cab companies. While many stu­dents expect to pay $2 for a short trip, employees of various eab eompanies strossnd that $2 is usually a llag drop priee eom­pounded by a metnr rate per milo. 
ABC Cab charges an $8 mini­mum per party anywhere with­in a throe-mile radius, .Jones 

PW 2006 
Ticket Distribution 
TUESDAY, February 14th WEDNESDAY, February 15th 
Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center 7:00PM-10:00 PM 
*You must present your student ID in order to pick up your tickets. In order to pick up tickets for another student, you must have his/her student ID with you. 
I P \X' 2 0 0 G • 3 0 0 , \ L ,\ l: 0 R T lJ N I·: S T U D I·: N T C: I ~ N T I·: R ./ PW@ N D.I"HJ 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 15, 2006 
Panel 
continued from page 1 
of the skits in "The Vagina Monologues." 
"How do they heal? Whether we like it or not, it's by writing plays [like 'The Vagina Monologues'] ... Kids write these plays," Nordstrom said. 
Nordstrom requires students in her anthropology classes to write ethnographies of them­selves, some of which have dealt with campus rapes perpe­trated by both males and females. She said she has had more males than "you would expect" come to talk to her in her office about being sexually violated. 
"It really is an unspoken real­ity," Nordstrom said. 
Nordstrom was not the only panelist who brought personal experience to the table. Father Paulinus Odozor, an associate professor of theology, was born and raised in Nigeria -a back­ground that made him aware of the prevalence of crimes against women. 
"I .can relate to some of the issues [Nordstrom] was talking about," Odozor said. "I saw the kinds of atrocities people com­mit in wars." 
But Odozor differed from Nordstrom in his opinion of the play. One of the things he found problematic stemmed from what he saw as the agenda of the play, reflected in the subti­tle of the official script, which states the play's involvement in the worldwide V-Day Campaign -a movement that works to end violence against women. 
Campaigns, Odozor said, are organized courses of political action meant to convert peo­ple's hearts and minds. In the case of "The Vagina Monologues," Odozor said he was concerned with the values it presented, though he sup­ported its anti-violence goals. 
"(In 'The Vagina 

to stand up against advo­cates of "sinful" "/ would like to sex. 
challenge the views 
He said the 
ofthe play to

"Monologues" present a "dis­promote the ideal of torted view of 
sexuality as a 
sex that doesn't 
self-giving love, but

offer concrete ways to combat then the play sexual injus­
challenges me to 
tices." 
think about how we

"We don't need any more get there from where one-sided views 
we are. 
of sexuality that parts of 
Mary Doak 

this play seem to advocate," theology professor Odozar said. This "one­
during child­hood. 
After the pan­elists were fin­ished, they field­ed emotional questions and comments about the "Mono­logues," rape and gender rela­tions at Notre Dame from stu­dents and faculty members in the crowd. 
Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman, who attended the "Monologues" for 
Festival 
continued from page 1 
she later settled on using her son's first name, Alexander, as her new last name. 
Alexander said she had wanted to write since childhood but always had found excuses not to get started. 
"I always had this idea that you need a big uninterrupted block of time [to write a book]," she said. 
After staying home to raise her first child, Alexander changed her mind and told herself, "If it stinks, well at least I know I tried." 
With her newfound motivation, Alexander reflected on her per­sonal interests, such as historical fiction, London, Paris and ancient art. The result was a story about art forgeries. 
Alexander created a young, widowed woman as a main char­acter with the intention of reusing the young character in a series of novels. Furthermore, a widowed woman in 1890s England would have the freedom of movement that an unmarried or married woman would not have had at that time, Alexander said. 

When she began as an author, she had "a barely serviceable computer and a three and-a-half year old in the room," she said. 
Her busy schedule actually served to motivate her as she wrote, Alexander said. 
"It is a lot easier to procrasti­nate if you have a big block of time," she said. 
And the motivation led to enjoy­ment as she progressed through the novel. 
"If you are not having fun writ­ing the book, than you have to change something," she said. "You can't control and agent or a publisher, but you can change your book." 
Alexander said it was very sat­isfying to know a large company was taking her small book very seriously. 
After talking about the anxious­ness of waiting a year and a half, Alexander told the audience about the joy she received when she finally got the first published copy in the mail. 
"I had a hard time believing that it was real," she said. 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 
Monologues'], sex is little more than genital activity, [there is glorified] sex with adults, [and] sex is something we should feel free to do whenever and with whoever one wants to," he said. "This play should not be viewed as a presumption-less produc­tion." 
Odozor discussed the view of sexuality in the eyes of the Catholic Church, and said Catholics have a responsibility viewed the play as a two-way street that opened up dialogue. 
"I would like to challenge the views of the play to promote the ideal of sexuality as a self­giving love, but then the play challenges me to think about how we get there from where we are," Doak said. 
Doak also said that people don't "just one day spring up as sexual adults," but instead internalize sexual feelings even 
sided propaganda," Odozar said, "cannot go unchallenged in a Catholic university." 
Theology professor Mary Doak also brought experience and a different perspective to the panel. 
"There are five girls in my family ... [so] I always thought the statistics [on sexual vio­lence] must be skewed." Doak said, referring to statistics that about one in three women nationwide is a victim of rape or sexual abuse. 
But after receiving tearful phone calls from some of her sisters about sexual violence perpetrated against them, Doak said she has since realized the statistics were accurate. 
As a Catholic theologian, Doak said she agreed with Odozor that sexuality is a gift from God. But she also said she the first time Tuesday, said after the performance and before the panel he was "not too surprised" by the content, but was "really struck by the quality of the acting." 
"I wanted to see it as an aca­demic event," said Poorman, who said he attended the play on his own accord. "It seemed to go pretty well [in the DeBartolo classroom setting]." 
He said he was looking for­ward to the second half of Tuesday's event -the panel discussion. 
Another panel discussion will take place tonight at 9:15 p.m. in 102 DeBartolo following the third and fmal 7 p.m. showing of this year's "The Vagina Monologues." 
Contact Peter Ninneman at pninnema@nd.edu 
Announcing the Year 2006 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2006 annual competition for travel in support ofsummer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year ofItalian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study ofItalian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the Univers~ty ofNotre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department ofRomance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1)  an eXplanation ofhow the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame;  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals;  
3)  a descnption ofthe research project or the program they intend to follow;  
4)  a budget indicating the costs involved;  
5)  ·the names oftwo references.  

Application Deadline: Friday, February 17, 2006 Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship Program in Italian Studies 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall University ofNotre Dame 
Savage 
continued from page 1 
review of "JFK, LBJ and the Democratic Party." 
"Sean Savage's thoroughly researched work offers a new perspective," the journal read. "The reader will be rewarded by a closely argued thesis, some new revelations about JFK and LBJ and an extraordinary collec­tion of rare photographs." 
This is not the first time the professor's work has been recog­nized. Savage 

in a private world," he said. "Once your works are released, it's natural to wonder how the public will react to it." 
Savage is working on two smaller projects. The first book focuses on the relationship between Kennedy, as a senator, and the geographic area of New England. The other work focuses on the ideological policy changes in the Democratic Party from 1968-1972 on Cold War policy. 
Editors and authors alike view Savage's work as a literary and historical success. Thomas Patterson, another author in the 
field, wrote, 

received two other "Sean Savage's
'There is a definite
awards for his writ­book is a must ing in past years. In satisfaction in read for scholars 1993, he won the seeing your books and students of "Emerging Scholar American politics 
in bookstores., 
Award" presented by and history." the American Even though Political Science Sean Savage Savage may not Organization for his political science identify a partic­book, "Roosevelt, the ular reason for
professor
Party Leader, 1932­1945." In 1997, he won an award for his book, "Truman and the Democratic Party." 
"There is a definite satisfaction in seeing your books in book­stores," Savage said. "I do have a Y chromosome. The feeling of validation by your peers and pub­lic is something to be proud of." 
Savage described the writing experience as one of solitude. "An author lives several years 
his most recent 

success, it is clear his colleagues at CHOICE can pinpoint his work's distin­guishing characteristics. 
"[The book is] a masterful work which sparks an interest in studying the politics of the sixties in a broader context than just· presidential personalities,." the journal read. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleOl @saintmarys.edu 

Great Job Opportunities!I 
flexible ~ &GREAI EAYII We offer 1 0-40+ hours/week 
Route Delivery 
$9.00 -$12.00/ Hour 
574-234-5309 
Located, Just Minutes from Campus 
We Also Have Facilities in OthGr Cit!Gs, Call Us! 
li~ling!ltwk 1.atC-340.0152 Noon Wcl!lliur 1~Cfl.UZ-<i500 HWoyno 1-IWN2JMiliGS Morton 1.ato-642-QS94 s~r.wn H<!rb~r h!W~-457-4423 S0111h Qnns 1~r457~423 Cmw~ 1'<*1\ 1.Jl\i1>457-44Zl S!>ri"'!fl•l<i 1'1WO-M!I.-1!S94 
No Experiencii Necessary, imm ill eM !dJ. dwina $!:/J4ol Brxi work in W!<!ll.!l!! dM'r<g "'"'''''" l>re<>l<. W.. offw ~''*""' Fifnjb!fiN. stun luJinifl9 tfQ'ti. 
Schedule an Interview A.S.A.P. Bring e Friend! 
www.homecitvice.com 
r----------------~-~--­
ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, February I 5, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE ()BSFRVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Haiti to review election results 
I'OI!T-;\U-PHINCii -llaili's interim govern­nwnl ordered a review of elnelion results Ttwsday, hours after the loading presidential candidate -who appeared sol to fall short of a lirst.-round vietory -claimed tho count was marrml by "massive fraud" or errors. 
Tlw ordnr is tlw lirst. limnal stop to invosti­gat.P possible fraud or irrngularities committed during last wopk's votn and tho counting prOCI'SS. 
"Tiw govPrnmt•nl wants to mako surn that PVPrything with tlw prfH:nss is correct." inlnr­im Interior Minister l'aul Magloirn told Thn ;\ssodat.ed l'rPss. 
l·:arlinr in tlw day, leading prosidential can­didato Horw Prnval promisod to contost tho results. l'n~val also urgod supporlnrs to protnst pnan~fully a day aftnr at. loast. ono pro­l'rnval dt•nronstrator was killed and followers elsewlwre occupied a hot.nl. 
Hussein announces hunger strike 
BA<;J II>AD -Al'lnr shouts, insults, argu­lll«'nt.s and walkouts, Saddam llussoin and t.hrtw of his co-ddnndants unveiled a nnw show-stnaling lacth: Ttwsday: They announced in court. that they had gonn on hunger strike. 
Saddam said the strike was called to protest tlw tough way chin!' judgP Haouf Abdol­l!ahman has condueted tho court since hn look OVf~r last. month. 
"Jo'or three days wn have boon holding a lrungor slrikn protnsling against your way of treating us -against you and your mastors," tho l'ornwr Iraqi lnadnr said. Their elaims could not bn imkpnndf1nt.ly eonlirmed. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Gov. to limit costs of benefit program 
WASIIINCTON-Tho Bush administration is taking slops to limit costs assoeiatnd with a lwndit.s program for Cold War-ora nueloar workers who developed eanenr from radiation nxposum, according to a White lfouse docu­ment. 
Hepublicans and Dnrnoerats say they are conct~rnnd. with ono GOI' lawmaker saying he plans to hold lwarings. 
The docunwnt., obtained by Tho Assoeiatod Press. was written by White Ilouse budget ofli­f'ials and sonl to tho Labor Doparlmonl. 
It comnHHHfs Labor offidals for "identifying the potential lilr a fargo expansion" ol' a pro­gram ainwd at eomponsaling thousands or nudnar workers. Tlwn, it stat.ns that the White llouse will load an int.ontgeney working group to devofop ways "to contain growth in tho f'osts of henelits" tho program provides. 
Guard admits to aiding in jailbreak 
CIIICA<;o -A Cook County .Jail guard told investigators lw fwlpnd six inmatns oseape ovN tho wonknnd in an attompt to inllucnco the nlndion for shnrifl', an official said Ttwsday. 
The guard said he was trying to ombarrass outgoing r.ount.y SlwrilT Michanl Sheahan and his rhief of stall', Tom Dart, who is running for slwriiT. a law onforrnnwnl ollieial with knowl­mlgn of tlw invostigat.ion told Tho Associatnd I'ross. 
No chargns had been lilnd in tho jailbrnak. All six inmates have boon r.apt.urnd. 
Also Tuesday. the Policn Departmnnt said its ol'lkers rnceived a lip about an nsrape plot at tlw jail hours bnfore tho breakout. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Road rage bill advances to Senate 
INI>f;\N;\I'OLIS -A bill designed to curb "road rage" by making aggrossivn driving a specific crinw advanced in tho Senate on Tuesday with a eomrnit.t.nn's unanimous nndorSf11llenl. 
The legislation is supported by relatives of two lmmagnrs who wnrn killnd after a man allngmlly becanw angry and through aggrns­sivo marwuvnrs eaused their vnhide to crash. 
"If it stops o1w pnrson from taking the next step and killing sonwbody nfsf~, then it will be worth it," said Laura Adams. whose sistor, 17-year-old Lindsay Thompson of Crawfordsvilln, was killed in the wreck. 
PAKISTAN 

Violent cartoon protests escalate 
Thousands rampage against Prophet caricatures, torch Western businesses 
Associated Press 
LAILOHE -Thousands 
rampaged through two cities 
Tuesday in Pakistan's worst 
violnneo against Prophet 
Muhammad earicat.uros, 
burning buildings housing a 
hotnl, banks and a KFC, van­
dalizing a Citibank and 
breaking windows at a 
I loliday Inn and a Pizza llut. 
At least two people wore killed in Lahoro, where intel­ligence ol'fieials suspected outlawed Islamic militant groups incited the violence to undermine President Gen. Pervoz Musharraf's U.S.~ allied govornmont. 
An Assoeiated Press reporter in Lahoro saw crowd members who appeared to be orchestrat­ing the attaeks, directing protosters -some of whom worn carrying containers of kerosene -toward partieu­lar targets. The demonstra­tors also set the provincial government assembly build­ing on lire. 
In the capital. Islamabad, hundreds of students stormed through the main entrance of the tightly guarded enclave that houses most foreign embassies, brandishing slicks and throwing stones. They were dispersed with tear gas, and no foreigners wero hurt. 

The unruly protests and the withdrawal of Afghanistan, where 11 peo­gun. deaths marked an alarming Denmark's 530-mnmber ple died in riots last week. Security foreos fired livn spike in the unrest in military contingent from the But the protests have gath­rounds into tho air, but l'ailnd Pakistan over the cartoons, region unless the Danish ered momentum in Pakistan to stop protestors from set­which first appeared in a government apologizes for this woek. ting l"inl to tho Punjab Danish newspaper in the cartoons -which it In Lahore, the eastern city provincial assembly and September and have been refuses to do, saying it has that is the main commercial burning down four buildings reprinted by other Western no influence ovm the media. hub in prosperous Punjab housing a hotel, two banks, newspapers. One cartoon The president of the province, about 15,000 a KFC restaurant and t.lw depicts Muhammad wearing European Commission joined tho protost organized oiTieo ol' Norwngian eoff a turban shapod as a bomb backed the Danish govern­by a little-known religious phonn company, Tnlnnor. with an ignited detonator ment's refusal, saying free­group and an Islamic school. Two movie tlwators worn string. dom of speech cannot be The demonstration was also also t.ordwd. 
Many in this conservative compromised. "It's better to supported by assoeiations Witnnssos said riot11rs also lslcunie country, as across publish too much than not to representing local traders damaged ovnr 200 ears, tho Muslim world, regard have freedom," President who shuttered businnsses doz~ms of shops -many any depietion of the prophet Jose Manuel Barroso told and most markets Tuesday. locally ownnd -and a large as blasphemous. They reject Jyllands-Posten, the paper Witnesses said a minority portrait of Musharral'. the newspapers' explana­that first published the of protestors in small groups Amnriean brands worn tar­tions that the eartoons have drawings. ran amok down streets linnd geted. Protestors vandalized news value and represent Demonstrations around with old colonial buildings a Citibank branc:h and broke free speech. Asia and the Middle East and shopping malls. windows at a lloliday Inn 
In southern Iraq, Basra's have subsided in recent Television footage showed at hotnl, a Pizza ffut and a provincial council demanded days, ineluding in least ono rioter !iring a hand Mc:Donafd's rnst.aurants. 

Report: poor disaster preparation 
concluded the report, which was writ­"Earlinr prnsidnntiaf involvnnwnt
Associated Press 

ten by a Hepubliean-dominatnd spe­might havo rnsultnd in a morn nll"llc­
WASIIINGTON-Government at all eial !louse committno and obtained tivn response," thn inquiry eondudml. levels took an indifferent stance Tuesday night by Tho Assoeiated Tho inquiry into one of the nation's toward disaster preparations after the Prnss. "The failure of initiative cost worst natural disast.nrs looked at 2001 terror attacks, leaving the Gulf lives, prolonged sull"oring, and loft all everything from the evacuation to tho Coast vulnerable to Ilurrieano Katrina Americans justiliably concerned our military's rolo to planning for (HJJnr­and contributing to the death and suf­government is no bettor prnpared to geney supplies and in eac:h c:atngory fering the storm inllictod, a !louse protect its people than it was bnfore limnd much to critidzo. inquiry concludes. 9/11, even if wo are." Typieal ol' tho rnport's unsparing 
Finding fault with tho White !louse The hard-hitting report, entitled "A tone, it warnnd. "Tho prnparation for down to local ol"licials, tho 520-page Failure of Initiative," coneludes that and responso to ffurrieane Katrina rnport determined that authorities President Bush could have speeded should disturb all ;\mnric:ans." failnd to move quiekly to proteet peo­the response by bneoming involved in The lfouso study is tho lirst to be ple -oven whon faced with warnings tho crisis oarlier. It says he was not eompfetnd in a sorins ol' inquirios hy days before tho catastrophic storm recniving guidance from a disaster Congress and Uw Bush administration struck last Aug. 29. specialist who would have understood about the massive failures exposnd by 
"Passivity did the most damage," tho scope of the storm's destruction. Katrina. 
page 6 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, February 15, 2006 
LEBANON 

Streets svvell as citizens re111e111ber dead-leader 
Demonstrations come year after assassination 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT -It was Hafik Hariri's day in Beirut. Men with children on their shoulders, women waving flags and even the elderly in wheelchairs ral­lied to remember the assassinat­ed former prime minister credit­ed with rebuilding and freeing Lebanon. 
Hundreds of thousands of peo­ple -unofficial police estimates put the figure at about 800,000 and organizers at over 1 million -thronged the Lebanese capi­tal in a show of unity reminis­cent of the days after Hariri's bombing death a year ago. 
Tuesday's 

demonstration "/ wanted to be rorist Bashar carried a political here at whatever (Assad) installed message: to show you and the
cost to show that 

that anti-Syrian valiant Lebanese 
we are still united 

groups still have people will remove the ability to rally and always you." the crowds and to In Washington,
will be."

demand that Secretary of State President Emile Condoleezza Rice Lahoud, a staunch Rania Salam indicated that pro-Syrian, step demonstrator Lebanon would be 
down. 
"Haven't you had enough, Bashar?" read one placard, referring to Syrian President Bashar Assad, whose government many blame for Hariri's killing. In a play on words, another placard read in English: "Assadsin." 
Demonstrators came from across the country, carrying red and white Lebanese flags and pictures of the slain former pre­mier. "United, thanks to you," read one banner held by a white-haired woman. 
Those who packed downtown Martyrs' Square and went to Hariri's nearby grave included women in Islamic robes and headscarves, elderly leaning on canes, families with babies and young women in tight jeans and designer sunglasses. 
"I wanted to be here at what­ever cost to show that we are still united and will 
born," Samia Baroudy, a 52­year-old Christian, said as she clutched a Lebanese flag. 
The throng fell silent at 12:55 
p.m. -the time a huge truck bomb -exploded on a down­town street as Hariri's motor­cade drove by a y~r ago, killing him and 20 others. A horn blew three times to symbolize the instant the bomb went on·. Then the crowd roared with shouts of "Syria out." 
Demonstrators repeatedly shouted the name of Hariri's son and political heir, Saad. 
"We tell them (the Syrians) ... remove the symbol of your sup­pression of Lebanon and its peo­ple because the people of Lebanon will not compromise," Saad Ilariri said, referring to Lahoud. The crowd responded with chants of "with souls, with blood we redeem you, Saad!" 

Politicians who rarely leave their homes for fear of assassi­nation showed up to rally the crowds. But in contrast to anti­Syrian protests a year ago, they spoke from behind a bullet­resistant glass panel and then left quickly. 
"There can be no stability and no freedom while the symbol of subservience to the Syrian regime remains in Baabda," Druse leader Walid Jumblatt told the crowd, referring to the presidential palace. Of Lahoud, he said: "The ter­
better off with a 
new president. 

"I think it's everyone's view that the presidency should be something that looks to the future of Lebanon, not to its past," she said in an interview with the Lebanese Broadcasting Corp. satellite channel. 
Buses carried people from the country's remote north, south and east, mainly Sunni Muslims, Christians and Druse. Thousands of troops and police, backed by armored vehicles, provided security and schools were closed for the day. Businesses also shut their doors. 
Shiite Muslims -the country's largest single sect -are domi­nated by pro-Syrian parties Amal and Hezbollah, and Shiites largely stayed away from the demonstration. So did backers of Michel Aoun, an anti-Syrian 
"J think it's 
always be," said 26-year-old Rania everyone's view Salam, who wore that the presidency 
a white cap with 
should be 
the words: "365 days and we are something that waiting for the 
looks to the future 
truth." 
ofLebanon, not to
"Those who killed Hariri meant its past." to kill Lebanon, but they failed. A 
Condoleezza Rice 
new united 
Secretary of State 
Lebanon was 
Christian. 
Opponents of Syria are a major­ity in government and Parliament, but lack the two­thirds majority needed to force out Lahoud. 
In a statement, President Bush said "Lebanon has continued to make progress in the year since Mr. Hariri's murder, thanks to the foundation of 

freedom he laid and the deter­mination of the Lebanese peo­ple." 
Neither Lahoud nor Syria had any immediate reaction to the gathering. Syria has .denied any role in J-lariri's killing or the later bombings, and has stalled on cooperation in the U.N. inquiry into Hariri's death. 
Syria's troops withdrew from Lebanon in April under interna­tional pressure, and the U.N. probe into Hariri's slaying already has implicated top Syrian and allied Lebanese security ofticials in his death. 
Three top Lebanese generals close to Lahoud have been arrested in connection with the slaying. 
IRAQ 
British flag burned in rage 
Protest follows video depicting soldiers beating and kicking Iraqi youth 
Associated Press 
BASRA -More than 1,000 protesters burned a British flag Tuesday and the regional administration in Iraq's main southern province severed all ties with British authorities over video footage showing British soldiers allegedly beating and kicking Iraqi youths. 
In London, the British Defense Ministry announced the arrest of two more people in connection with the images. Another person ­apparently the man who shot the video -was arrested Monday. 
Protesters, many of them supporters of radical Shiite cleric Muqtada al-Sadr, marched on the British Consulate in Basra, where they burned a British flag and shouted slogans against the alleged abuse of the youths during a riot Jan. 10, 2004, in the southern city of Amarah. 
Protesters held banners reading "No, no to Tony Blair" and "Try the British soldiers involved in this aggression." 
With outrage over the video mounting, the governing council for Basra province, which includes Iraq's huge southern oil fields, announced it was cutting all ties with British military and civilian operations in the area, head­quarters of Britain's more than 8,000-member military contingent in Iraq. 
The Basra police chief, Maj. Gen. Hassan Suwadi, said Iraqi security forces would cease joint patrols with the Br.itish military in the province to protest the alleged abuse. "We condemn the abuse of the British forces and demand the British gov­ernment to adopt legal proce­dures as soon as possible to punish its soldiers who car­ried out the abuse," Suwadi told The Associated Press. 
Elsewhere, gunmen killed 11 Shiite farmers north of Baghdad, including eight members of one family, offi­cials said. A U.S. Marine was killed and six coalition per­sonnel were wounded in two attacks in Baghdad. 
A homemade bomb explod­ed near a Baghdad liquor shop on Wednesday, killing three people and wounding two, police said. The motive for the attack was unclear, but stores selling alcohol have been targeted before by reli­gious extremists. 
In Amarah, about 100 miles north of Basra, two Iraqis who claimed to have been beaten on the video _ Bassem Shaker and Tariq Abdul­Razzak -told reporters they would seek compensation from Britain, which occupied Iraq for decades after the country was established fol­lowing World War I. 
The beatings allegedly occurred during a violent protest in Amarah by hun­dreds of people demanding jobs. Six people were killed and 11 injured, according to reports at the time. 
"I was one of 250 unem­ployed people demonstrating in the street in 2004, but when we reached the gover­nor's office we were sur­prised by the presence of the British forces," Shaker said. "We started throwing stones at them because we believed that they were behind all our misery." 
Shaker said British troops "were boating us with fists and batons and were kicking us'"'before taking the prison­ers to a British base "where they also beat us and fright­ened us with dogs before releasing us before sunset." 
He said he didn't report the treatment because he did not believe any officials would deal with their complaints. 
"But when we saw this tape and the amount of anger it caused inside and outside Iraq, we decided to come today ... to sue the British forces and compensate us," he said. "Those troops humili­
ated  us  and  violated  our  
rights to demand jobs."  
Helations  between  the  

British and the Shiite-domi­nated provincial administra­tion have been strained in recent weeks after an uptick in attacks on British troops and moves by the British to crack down on Shiite militias that have infiltrated the police and security services. 
Last month, British troops arrested four police officers, alleging they were involved in militia and criminal activities. Basra authorities had threat­ened to suspend contacts with the British over the crack­down well before the video was first reported in London's News of the World. 

Beauchamp 
Director of 

e Untold Story of Emmett Louis Till" 
Hear jron1 the n1an whose shocking and groundbreaking documentary helped cause the Justice Department to reopen the tragic 1955 Emmett Till case 
Date: Time: Where: TEA Cost: FREE FREE 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Wt:dnesday, l;ebruary I), 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

b\1E.X +3.87 
~Q +~~.36 
IY!E. +73.77 
dPSOO +1~.67 
lfKKfJ(fofqo} 16,235.77 +5tl.9tl 
TSf IOO(l.ondon) :5, 79~.30 -1.~0 
1.793,73 
~. ~-6~.17 
8,0::! 1.:57 
1, ~7:5.:53 

:QMf'1l.NY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
'-IASO<\Q 110 T~ IQQJQ)  -1-1.01  -1-0.<11  <10.90  
NTE:L CP (INK)  -1-1.1<1  -1-0.1<1  11. ~ 1  
-u::::II()Sen T0::::" I1-Yi q)  -1-0.99  o~-o.u  u.l:.  
~ l'i<Xl S"IS INo:::: ICK0)  .j.0.11  .j.O.I:O  19.10  
ill! US SM Ei.LIT E: I! IS II!~  .j.o.:.~  -1-0.0~  :..l-ei  
0. YE:AI! BOND  -1-0.19  -1-0.~l  <1:0.9:0  
0. YEAI! 1--.K)T 1:  .j.O..f.s  -1-0.~ I  <16.1<1  
.. Y !All 1--.K)T 1:  -1-0.:09  .j.0.11  <16.0 1  
.. I-X) NT o-1 BLL  .j.0.:01  .j.Q.U  <1<1.<11  
~ o-1 TO::::I!UDI: l$ttol)  -1.1S  el.ol  
CLD($'T.o::tj<a.)  .j.e.ro  :0<1!3.90  
;:)I! 0:. BI:LLII5 Wor,:iib.)  -1-0. I:,  ro.oo  



I:N  IIU.~OO  
..JI!C  o. s~ 90  
;:)U ND  0.:0162  
A~DIAN$  1. 1:. ~s  

IN BRIEF 
Consumers boost January retail sales 
WASIIIN(;']'(JN -Consumers, lurnd to malls by unusually warm wnather and eager to spend their Christmas gifl cards, boosted mtail sales by a much larger than expected amount in .January, with sales outside of' autos surging at the f'astnst pact~ in six years. 
Tho Commerce I>npartmnnt said Tuesday that rt~tail sales nxduding autos were up 2.2 percent in .January, the best showing in this catngory sin en late I<JIJIJ. With autos included, retail salns rose by 2.:~ pnrcent, the best showing in 20 months. Ovnrall retail sales had rison by a tiny 
0.4 pnrcm1t in Dncembnr. 
The ovmall increase was more than double what economists had benn forecasting. They attributed tlw strong showing in part to the mildest .January in morn than a century. This prom ptnd consumnrs to troop to the stores to rmltwrn tho gift cards they had received in Decmnhnr. 
Stocks soar with drop in oil prices 
NEW YOHK -A drop 'in oil prieos bnlow $60 a harrnl sent stocks soaring Tuesday, carrying the Dow .Jones industrial average 136 points higher and past I I ,000 f'or the first time in a month. A surge in retail sales added to the market's good mood. 
"Oil btdow $(J() a barrd grabbed folks' atten­tion," said Bob Sitko, who manages more than $500 million as a lnad portfolio manager with US/\A Private lnvnstmnnt Managnmnnl. "When tho marknt dnddns to pay altnntion to things is a bit of' l!ubik's eubn, hut this is a big dnal." 
Otlwr analysts attributed some of the risn to slwt~r monH~ntum. as Wall Strnnt initially had a mutnd roadion to oil's dndinn and thn pickup in rntail salns. 
"It's sort of what othnr pnopln think other peo­pln an~ doing," said Sandy Lincoln, chief market strategist. Wayne llummer lnvnstments. "You gel this monwntum buying and it wuld movn thn rnarkd prntty high. pretty quickly. !Bull it eould go tlw otlwr way tomorrow." 
Tlw rnarknt StH~nuHI to shod complel<~ly Monday's torpor. whnn investors snnt shares lowt~r as tlwy worrind about new Federal Hnsorve c:hairman Ben Bnrnankn's remarks hdoro Congmss on Wnd1wsday, his lirst appear­ancn on Capitol llill as Fnd chairman. 
Companies assist in censorship 
Internet companies caught between Chinese rules and U.S. demands for free speech 
Associated Press 

BEI.JING-Yahoo Inc., Google Inc. and other U.S. lntt~rnnt companins under lire for assisting in China's censorship ef'f'orts are insisting they must obey Beijing or risk limiting access to their most prom­ising market. 
As the companies face congressional hearings in Washington on Wndnesday about their role in aiding the communist regime, they are appealing to the U.S. governmnnt for help, saying no private business ean resist China on its own. 
Yet analysts say that even if Washington stt~pped in to enforce f'ree-speeeh stan­dards, perhaps by forcing 
U.S. companies to withdraw their Internet serviens or oquipment from China, the impact would likely be bluntod as entreproneurs from China and othnr coun­tries move in to fill tho void in the rapidly growing mar­AP ket. 
Google, Yahoo and other high-tech stalwarts like Microsoft Corp. and Cisco Systems Inc. have been principles. country bans it.) Tuesday took a stop in the steadily expanding in It's been a particularly And Yahoo is accused of direction l'avored by Yahoo China, believing it will delicate balancing act for providing information that and Coogle by creating a emerge as an Internet gold Yahoo and Google becausn led to the jailing of two of Global Internet Froedom mine during the next they don't want to alienate its Chinese e-mail users. Task Foreo. decade. China already has their core U.S. audience, "All U.S. and internation­Activists complain that the world's second-largest whose loyalty helps attract al firms operating in China U.S. lntnrnet companies Internet population, behind the advertising that gener­face the same dilemma of have already gone beyond the United States, with ates most of their current complying with laws that their legal obligations in more than 100 million peo­profits. lack transparency and that China by selling its govern­ple online. Google's corporate can have disturbing conse­ment tho tools and provid­
Yahoo already spent $1 mantra, "Don't Be Evil," quences inconsistent with ing know-how used to mon­billion for a 40 percent lost some of' its reson.ance our own beliefs," Yahoo itor Web use, track usnrs stake in Alibaba.com, last month when it started spokeswoman Mary Osako and block access to foreign China's largest e-commerce a Chinese version of' its pop­said in a statement in sites run by dissidents and site, while Google and ular search engine that which she also sought U.S. human rights groups. Microsoft have been invest­doesn't provide links to con­government help. .Julien Pain, who heads ing heavily in the country. tent deemed unacceptable In a statement posted on Internet research for the 
Meeting the demands of by the government. Coogle's online journal, Paris-based prnss freedom China's government has Earlier, Microsoft shut senior policy counsel group Heporters Without imposed intangible costs on down, at Beijing's request, Andrew McLaughlin urged Borders, called on tho U.S. 
U.S. Internet companies as a popular Chinese blog that the U.S. government to Commerce Departmnnt to they fend orr complaints touches on sensitive topics "treat censorship as a har­monitor the Anwrkan com­about censoring online such as press freedoms. rier to trade" and to bring panins' eontraets with search results and shutting {Microsoft has since vowed up such concerns as part of China, "to makn sure tlwy down Web logs with sensi­to try to still make such bilateral diplomatic talks. don't collaborate on these tive eontont -actions that blogs available elsewhere U.S. Secretary of State kinds of' human rights critics say violate American in the future even if one Condoleezza Hice on abuses." 

Moody's cuts Boston Scientific debt 
load will grow from about $2 billion to said it would likely cut Boston. 
Associated Press 

$9.6 billion once the deal is completnd, Scientific's rating another two notches, 
BOSTON -Moody's Investors although the company has said it to "Baa:r' -thn lowest in.vnstmnnt­Service on Monday lowered Boston doesn't believe its debt risks would grado rating. onn notch ahovo junk Sciontilk Corp.'s long-term debt rat­lead agencies to cut its ratings to a status on tlw Moody's scalo. ings, eiting the dobt risks the modieal level below investment grade. Such a Moody's said Monday's cut of Boston devien maker is taking on in its $27 move would make it harder for Natiek­Seientilie's long-tnrm dnbt "is basod on billion acquisition of' Guidant Corp. basnd Boston Seinntilic to lind lnnders, our bolinf that ovon if' tho transadion 
Tho move came three days af'ter and more expensive for it to borrow. is not complntt~d. the bid fiw <;uidant another firm, Fitch Hatings, said it Moody's move lowers its rating of signals maiHLgPnwnt's willingness to expneted it would downgrade Boston Boston Seientif"ic's debt down one leverage its balance shnnt in a mamwr Scientilk's debt ratings if the transac­notch from "A3" to "Baal" -a level inconsistent with an A3 rating." tion doses without changes to its eur­that still leaves it with an invt~stmont Moody's also citnd concerns that a nmt strueturn. grade rating, but at tho eighth-lowest rnctmt warning from tho U.S. Food 
The credit agoncins have bonn keep­rung among 10 investment-grade and Drug Administration about quali­ing a close oye on Boston Scinntilie rankings. ty-control prob!l~ms at Boston af'tor it won a nearly two-month bid­Moody's said it would keep Boston Scientilie t:r·patns uncertainty about ding war with Johnson & Johnson to Seienlif'ic under rnviow for another the company's ability to approve nnw buy Indianapolis-based Guidant and possible downgrade pnnding tho eom­products. acquiro its business in tho fast-grow­pletion of' tho Guidant doal, which Moody's announcod its ratings nwvo ing market for implantable dnlibrilla­Boston Scientific hopos to closn by tho shortly bnf'orP Boston Sdcmtifk sharos tors. end of' March. II' the deal elosos by dipped 9 cents to dose at $21.77 on 
Boston Scil~ntil"ic nxpects its debt then without any surprises, Moody's thi~ Nnw York Stock Exchange. 
page 8 The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS Wednesday, February 15, 2006 
'Friends' -writer sues
Atnerican Dada exhibit to open 
National Gallery of Art will host conceptual art form for first time 
for sexual harassment 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Marcel Duchamp's version of the Mona Usa added a mustache and goatee to the Da Vmci original. Man Ray exhibited a flatiron with a row of tacks glued to the bottom. 
Their work was typical of the art-as-rebellion movement they called Dada. 
A ehallenge to both artistic and political establishments of the early 20th eentury, Dada flourished in New York as well as western Europe. 
More than 450 I>ada works are getting their first big Ameriean exhibit Sunday at the National Gallery of Art. 
Dada can mean various things in various languages: "yes, yes" in Russian and Romanian, a hobby horse in French, baby talk for "daddy" in English. The name seems to have been chosen to m£~an notlling in particular. 
Dada's first publicist, Romanian­French poet Tristan Tzara, gave a formula for writing a Dadaist poem: Choose a newspaper story or the right length, cut it up word by word, shake the word'i in a bag, take them out one by one and arrange them in the order they emerge. 
I>ada wa.<> born in the slaughter of World War I, and it did have a ba.<>ic motivation: fierce and bitter contempt of the old men who sent young men to kill one another for principles that had little or no meaning to artists. Dadaists said traditional art bore mueh of the blame for the war, and they did their best to subvert it. 
Duehamp, the most prominent of the Dadaists in New York, made both political and artistic points. 
On Jan. 23, 1917, President Wtlson was ~iill trying to persuade 
February 16 
What Really Happens in Graduate School and How do I Get There? 
Meet representatives from the Graduate School and learn about graduate school options and how to get there. 
Hammes Student Lounge, Coleman Morse. 
Contact information: 
Office of Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 
UNJV.ERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
COLU.Gf. Of ARTS AND 1..1\TTF.R.~ 

both sides to a "peace without vie­tory." But the German High Command was prepari.ng an announcement of intensified sub­marine war. That made it almost inevitable that the United States would join the war on the side of the western allies. 
That night Duchamp, with American artist John Sloan and four friends, climbed the Washington Areh at the foot of Fifth Avenue, a Greenwich Village lanamark. They took a picnic lunch, several bottles of wine, some red, white and blue balloons and a proclamation. 
After drinking a certain amount of the wine and fixing the balloons 
to the ramparts, "Art is what you Philadelphia 
Adam Levin told the justices. 

five of the conspir­can get away Museum of Art, and 
"The writers needed to have the 

ators fired ofl" cap they set up a studio 
freedom and breathing room to
with."

pistols and the for Duchamp. 
explore sexual topics," he 

sixth deelaimed One of the habitus 
explained. "That's what the show 

the proclamation. Andy Warhol was the Baroness 
dealt with." 

It consisted late artist Elsa von Freytag­
The ease was initiated in 2000 

almost entirely of repetitions of the word "wherea..<;" -a typical Dada touch -and ended with dedaring Greenwich Village a free and inde­pendent state. 
A little more than two months later a group of artists, with Duchamp as chairman of their board, met to consider a sculpture called "Fountain," a porcelain uri­nal Duehamp had bought at a plumbing supplies shop. The com­mittee voted to reject it. Duchamp and photographer Alfred Stieglitz, another member of the board, resigned in protest. 
"Fountain" beeame an ancestor of eonceptual art, art based on a coneept; found art, objects the artist has just picked up; and "ready-made" art, exi'iting objeet'i the artist just changed a bit, like the doctored Mona Lisa. 
al skills as cause. 
Lyle's attorney, Scott Ohara Cummings, said many of the sexu­al vulgarities had nothing to do with the show. IIe said one writer drew a vagina during the meet­ings. 
"That's an offensive thing that shouldn't be in the workplace," Cummings said. 
Warner Bros. acknowledges that some, but not all, of the sexually explicit talk Lyle alleges did take place, but feels the comments were a vital part of the creative process. 
Levin said Lyle had been warned when she was hired that explicit discussions were part of develop­ing the sexually charged NBC com­edy about six friends in New York. 
Lyle alleged she was offended by repeated references to the actors' sex lives and to the writers' own sexual exploits. She also grew tired, she charged, of repeated profanity, talk about women's breasts and even simulated mas­turbation allegedly performed dur­ing seript meetings. 
In making the earlier ruling, a state appeal<; eourt said the writ­ers' creative process was protected speech, but that Lyle also has a right to try to prove that the vul­garities strayed beyond that ere­ative process and perhaps violated workplaee harassment rules. 
The Supreme Court has to rule within 90 days. 
"Fountain" and the version of the Mona Lisa are both in the National Gallery show. 
It's as if the Dadaists anticipated a quote that the Andy Warhol Foundation attributes to its founder: "Art is what you can get away with." 
The exhibit includes work by Duchamp, Man Ray, Francis Picabia, Max Ernst, Hans Arp, Paul Klee and others who became famous for their work among the Dadaists and in other styles. They frequented a kind of salon in the ample apartment of Walter and Louise Arensberg, just off Central Park West. The couple kept a col­lection of modern art, now in the 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -California's top eourt heard arguments Tuesday in the ease of a former assistant on the hit show "Friends" who claims she was subjected to sexual harassment in writing meetings. 
Citing free-speech rights, lawyers for the show's producers, Warner Bros. Television Productions, insisted that trash talk during writers' meetings was part of the creative proeess and, therefore, the studio and its writ­ers not eulpable. 
"The writers needed to, as part of their jobs, take on taboo subject matter," Warner Bros. attorney 

Loringhoven, wife of 
a German who wa..'i a war prisqner in France. She was a precursor oftoday's performance artists. The catalog for the show describes her as w·earing a coal scuttle or wastebasket for a hat and clothes hung with things she found on the street or shoplifted from Woolworth's, including toys, gilded vegetables, tea balls, curtain rings and a battery light rigged as a bustle. 
"I cannot figure out what 
by Amaani Lyle, now 32. She eharged that the raw sexual remarks that peppered work ses­sions and conversations added up to harassment against women. The state Supreme Court justices will weigh if a lower court's deci­sion to let the ease proceed to a jury trial should stand or be disal­lowed. 
Lyle was fired almost six years ago after four months on the job, the producers citing her secretari~ 

Dadism is," poet Hart Crane wrote to a friend. "But if the baroness is to be a keystone for it -then I think I can possibly know when it is coming and how to avoid it." 
Nelson sings cowboy
"Dada" will be in Washington through May 14. Admission is free. Then it goes to the Museum of 
song with nevv tune
Modem Art in New York, May 18 
to Sept. 11. 
Associated Press 
NASINILLE, Tenn. -Country music outlaw Willie Nelson sang "Mammas Don't Let Your Babies Grow Up to Be Cowboys" and "My Heroes Have Always Been Cowboys" more than 25 years ago. 
lie released a very dill'erent sort of cowboy anthem this Valentine's Day. 
"Cowboys Are Frequently. Seeretly (Fond of Each Other)" 

may be the first gay cowboy song by a major recording artist. But it was written long before thi'i year's Oscar-nominated "Brokeback Mountain" made gay cowboys a hot topic. 
Available exclusively through iTunes, the song features choppy Tex-Mex style guitar runs and Nelson's deadpan delivery of lines like, "What did you think all them saddles and boots was about?" and "Inside every cowboy there's a lady who'd love to slip out." 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
rAND I COMW1T1'£(: ON 
G ..Y..,.., lltUIAN 
$-rOI)tHT ~!ItO$ 

The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Dick Warner, C.S.C., at I-9704 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr.•~1aureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more infonnation, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ 
Wednesday, February 15, 2006 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Cheney's cotnpanion suffers heart attack 
Critics call for vice president to speak on incident 
Associated Press 
COHPUS CIIHISTl, Texas -Thn 78-year-old lawyer wounded by Vice President Diek Cheney in a hunting accident suffered a mild heart attaek Tuesday after a shot­gun pnllet in his chest trav­eled to his heart, hospital offi­cials said. 
Harry Whittington was immediately moved back to the intensive care unit and will be watched for a week to make sure more of the metal pellets do not reach other vital organs. He was reported in stabln eondition. 
Whittington suffered a "silnnt heart attack" obstructed blood flow, but without the classic heart­attack symptoms of pain and pressure, according to doc­
tors  at  Christus  Spohn  
Hospital  Corpus  Christi­ 
Memorial.  

The doctors said they deeid­ed to treat the situation con­servatively and leave the pel­let alonH rather than operate to rmnove it. Thny said they are highly optimistic Whittington will recover and livn a healthy life with the pellet in him. 
Asked whether the pellet could move farther into his hoart and becomn fatal, hos­pital officials said that was a hypothntical question they eould not answer. 
llospital offi­

"The leadership 
about their kids' at community schools, and needs to reach out events. 
when the chil­and help the public "We have to get 
dren relay their beyond talking to
understand the 
own experi­people who have ences. challenge." the same mind-set Students put a of business leaders lack of science and public offi­
Jean Johnson 
and math near eials," she said. 
executive president 
the bottom of The poll results 
Public Agenda 
problems they eame as the 
"/ think it's time 

eials said they tors performed a were not con­the American cardiac catheter­cerned about the ization, in which
people heard from 

six to 200 other a thin, flexible
the vice president." 

pieces of birdshot tube is inserted that might still be into the heart, to lodged in Harry Reid diagnose his Whittington's condition, said
Senate Democratic 

body. Cheney was Peter Banko, the
leader
using 7 1/2 shot from a 28-gauge shotgun. Shotgun pellets are typically made of steel or lead; the pellets in 7 1/2 shot are just under a tenth of an inch in diameter. 
Cheney watched the news conference where doctors described Whittington's com­plications. Then the vice pres­ident called him, wished him well and asked if there was anything that he needed. 
"The vice president said that he stood ready to assist. Mr. Whittington's spirits were good, but obviously his situa­tion deserves the careful monitoring that his doctors are providing," the vice presi­dent's office said in a state­ment. 
Cheney, an experienced hunter, has not spoken pub­licly about the accident, which took plaee Saturday night while the vice president was aiming for a quail. Critics of the Bush administration called for more answers from Cheney himself. 
Whittington has said through hospital officials that he does not want to comment on the shooting. A young man at Whittington's Austin home who identified himself as his grandson said Tuesday he did not have time to talk to a reporter and closed the door. 
The furor over the accident and the White House delay in making it public are "part of the secretive nature of this administration," said Senate 

Democratic Leader Harry Heid of Nevada. "I think it's time the American people heard from the vice presi­dent." 
Before hospital officials announced details of Whittington's condition, the hunting accident had pro­duced a raft of Cheney jokes on late-night television. 
"l think Cheney is starting to Jose it," Jay Leno said. "After he shot the guy he screamed, 'Anyone else want to call domestic wiretapping illegal?!'" 
On Tuesday morning, the White House spokesman briefly joined in the merri­ment, joking that the orange school colors of the visiting University of Texas champi­onship football team should not be mistaken for hunters' safety gear. 
"The orange that they're wearing is not because they're concerned that the vice president may be there," press secretary Scott McClellan said. "That's why I'm wearing it." 
Hospital officials said they knew that Whittington had some birdshot near his heart and that there was a chance it could move closer since scar tissue had not had time to harden and hold the pellet in place. 
After Whittington developed 
an irregular 
heartbeat, doc­
administrator at 
the hospital. 

The shot was either touch­ing or embedded in the heart muscle near the top cham­bers, called the atria, officials said. Two things resulted: 
+ 
It caused inflammation that pushed on the heart in a way to temporarily block blood flow, what the doctors called a "silent heart attack." This is not a traditional heart attack where an artery is blocked. They said Whittington's arteries, in fact, were healthy.

+ 
It irritated the atria, caused an irregular heartbeat known as atrial fibrillation, which is not immediately life­threatening. But it must be treated because it can spur blood clots to form. Most cases can be corrected with medication. 


White House physicians helped advise on the course of treatment, hospital officials said. 
Texas officials said the shooting was an accident and no charges were brought against the vice president. 
A Texas Parks and Wildlife Department report issued Monday said Whittington was retrieving a downed bird and stepped out of the hunting line he was sharing with Cheney. "Another covey was flushed and Cheney swung on a bird and fired, striking Whittington in the face, neck and chest at approximately 30 yards," the report said. 
Public OK vvith school curriculUlll 
Government calls for increased rigor, amount ofmath, science content 
Associated Press 
WAc;;HINGTON -If improving science and math edueation is suddenly a national priority, someone apparently forgot to tell the parents and the students. 
In a new poll, 57 percent of parents say "things are fine" with the amount of math and science being taught in their child's public school. High school parents seem particularly con­tent -70 percent of them say their child gel<; the right amount of science and math. 
Students aren't too worried, either, according to the poll released Tuesday by Public Agenda, a public opinion research group that tracks edu­cation trends. 
Only half of children in grades six to 12 say that understanding sciences and having strong math skills are essential for them to succeed in life after high school. 
This is not what the people in eharge of the country want to hear. 
Congressional leaders, gover­nors, corporate executives, top scientists -all of them have urgently called for schools to raise the rigor and amount of math and science taught in school. In his State of the Union address, President Bush made the matter a national priority. 
Yet where public ollieials and employers see slipping produc­tion in the sciences as a threat to the nation's economy, parents and students don't share that urgency. Such a disconnect could undercut the national push for more seience and math. 
"There's energy and leader­ship at the top, but there is a task to be done in getting par­ents and kids to understand some of the ideas," said Jean Johnson, executive president of Public Agenda. "You can do a lot from the top, but you can't do everything. Schools are local. The leadership needs to reach out and help the public under­stand the challenge." 
In theory, parents and stu­dents say, more math and sci­ence education is a good thing. 
For example, 62 percent of parents say it is crucial for most of today's students to learn high­level math, like advanced alge­bra and calculus. 
The story changes, though, when parents talk specifically views. 
"They are assuming schools are providing enough. That's the part that is problematic," said Susan Traiman, who oversees edueation and work foree poliey for the Business Roundtable, an assoeiation of chief exeeutive officers from major U.S. eorpo­rations. 
Her group leads a coalition of businesses that has launched a public relations campaign, hop­ing to give math and seience the same urgeney it had during the Cold War space raee. But to reaeh parents, Traiman said, loeal leaders must talk up the subject 
see at school. 
They are much more worried 
about bad language, cheating or 
the pressure for good grades. 
Most parents, meanwhile, say 
their kids are getting a better 
education than they did. Only 32 
percent of parents say their 
child's school should teach morn 
math and science. 
If anything, parents are less 
worried about math and science 
these days -not more. 
In 1994, 52 percent of parenl'l 
considered a lack of math and 
science in their local schools to 
be a serious problem. Now, only 
32 percent say the same thing. 
During that time, states ramped 
up standards and testing, which 
seems to have affected parents' 
Law&... 
February 15, 2006 4:00p.m. Law School Courtroom 
Education Depart­mlmt released a study reaffirm­ing that studenl'i who take rigor­ous high school courses arc more likely to earn a bachelor's degree. 
Making high school more chal­lenging is a big part of Bush's agenda. Employers and college professors say huge numbnrs of high school graduates do not show up with enough skills. 
Yet here, too, parnnts have quite a different perspnctive, the new poll finds. 
A total of 69 percent say their childrnn will finish high school with the skills neednd to succeed in college. and 61 percent say their kids will be ready for the work world. 

21st Century Out-Laws (The Globalization of War and Profit) 
Presenter:  Carolyn Nordstrom  
Department of Anthropology  
Commentator:  Mary Ellen O=Connell  
The Law School  

Please join the Law School and the Department ofAnthropology for this presentation in the 2005-2006 Law& ... series. 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------,. 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 10 
Wednesday, February 15, 2006 
Happy belated birthday, Darwin
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Par Leonard Paula Garcia 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 
ScENE EDITOR: Rarna Gorrumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EoiTOR: Graham Ebetsch 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CONTROLLER: Jim K.irihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 63!-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(57 4) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 0BSERVERONL/N£ www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Ediror must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Tiu:-Olncrvc:r (USPS ~99 l.-4000) ili publi,hrd Mond:t)' 1hrough Friday ~pt during P:am and vacarlqn pt"T~. Asubst.riptiou ~o'theDhtR:rvt:tl~ $100 for one :t~dl!lrnic 
yr;w; $5$ for-o~ ~~rl~lcr,  
~ Observer is pubhJhcd at:  POSTMASTER  
024 South Dining Hall  Send address corrections l1'l:  
Nntr~ Dame:, tN 46556 ..0779  "fhcOhscrvc.t  
Periodical pos!age paid 11t Nm:rc name.  P.O. Box779  
aml addidunalmaiH11g offu;cs.  02.4 South Dining H;!,ll  

Notre Dame, IN 465:§&..0779 

1bc ~i~ a mend)(:r of rhc:~iaced Pre&.!i. Allrepmducrion righrs ::trc raerved. 
In case you missed it, Sunday was the 197th birthday of Charles Darwin. In hundreds of churches across the nation fides et ratio-minded Christians gathered in a spirited, if frustrated, attempt to remind the rest of America that sound science and religion cannot be enemies (unless, of course, you claim that the creator is a liar) and that Reason is tradition­ally another name for Christ. As one Atlanta pastor told her listeners, "A faith that requires you to close your mind in order to believe is not much of a faith at all." 
It is a startling-or perhaps trou­bling-fact that approximately half of all Americans will not accept the plausible and foundational principle of evolution by natural selection, no matter what argument or proof is given for it. Those rejecting this prin­ciple, though they generally give many rather childish and ignorant excuses for their reluctance -once the words monkey, skull or dinosaur have been used, you know that the argument has been lost--nonethe­less float comfortably in their sea of outright contradiction merely because their opposition is religious in origin. 
We should, I suppose, be grateful that this type of bizarre attitude is presently only with regard to evolu­tion in the present day. Certainly if the attitude were, for example, to take hold in the arena of public health, it would be appropriate to panic. 
You have probably figured out by now that I take a very dim view of scriptural literalism, which happens to be one of the causes of this particu­lar problem. Augustine of Hippo was reading Genesis as a metaphor by the 

Lance Gallop 

Tidewater Blues 
fourth century. His predecessors had already taken major steps toward developing a system for weeding out inconsistent passages, which today allows us to write away Paul's misog­yny and Joshua's genocide and to locate in the Bible the kernel of com­plementary ideas that have become Christianity. This flexible, and almost unique, attitude toward its holy books, together with an early embrace of science, is perhaps the single greatest strength of the Christian religion. In this context, I regard scriptural literalism as unthinking at best and religious sui­cide at worst. 
I draw your attention to the issue of evolution in America because it is indicative of the growth of a particu­larly nasty type of though in the mod­ern world. This type of thought, which goes by many names, but is often referred to (somewhat confus­ingly) as fundamentalism, manifests itself broadly as the notion that clas­sical Western liberalism, free speech, gender equality, specific scientific truths and/or religious tolerance, are incompatible with the tenants of a given religion and that they should consequently be eradicated. 
There are both Christian and Islamic fundamentalists in the world today (whom some people have recently taken to calling Christanists and Islamists, respectively.) Each of these groups speaks with increasing strength, political power and occa­sionally violence. If only for this fact, the rise of fundamentalism in our world should be troubling to many. 
Keeping in mind the historical Catholic understanding of the union of faith and reason, of science and theology and of the tradition of liber­alism granted to empirical enquiry (Galileo being very much an anom­aly), we should also realize that fun­damentalist assumptions are antithet­ical to the core of Christian tradition that gave rise to Notre Dame. Therefore, Notre Dame must, if it is not to be self-contradictory, be an opposition force to these assump­tions. 
To put it another way, the very pur­pose of a Catholic university is to stand as living proof that the ideals of Western scholarship, freedom and science are not incompatible with an orthodox world view, but that they two are wholly complementary. Further, the very purpose of an American Catholic university is to show, not only that the principle of Western scholarship can be married to orthodoxy, but that the principle of American liberalism, republicanism, democracy and equality can be as well. 
At its very best, Notre Dame is a liv­ing model for the rest of the world, in particular those places and peoples infected with fundamentalism, that reason, freedom, equality and ortho­doxy can coexist without pain, con­tradiction or compromise to any of them, and that, in truth, all of them are the better for this mixture. To fail to be this example to the fundamen­talists, to in any way compromise the principles that glue us together in the Western tradition, is to failure in the mission of the University. 
The world is watching, because Notre Dame is a unique mixture in the modern world and has a the diffi­cult task of walking the lines others avoid because they lack the tradition, the desire or the courage to do so. It is a task that we must not fail at, because fundamentalist thought, and its rejection of our foundation, is ris­ing, and the cost of failure -I fear -­would be great. 
Lance Gallop is a 2005 graduate of Notre Dame. Comments should be e­mailed to comments@tidewa­terblues.com. More of his opinions can be found at www. tidewa terblues. com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Vote solicitation went too far 
In the aftermath of the recent student body election, I was greatly disappointed by the behavior of many of the candidates and their supporters. I received around six different e-mails from people supporting the various can­didates. I also received four private messages on face­book. Worst of all, two of the messages on facebook came from the same person, and they each endorsed different candidates. They were also sent out within one minute of each other. This immediately invoked my suspicion. ' 
This leads me to believe that either ad-ware software was used to produce these mass mailings remotely or that someone stole this person's password to do so. Since I know the person who "sent" the messages, I doubt he had anything to do with mailing them. These activities are highly dubious. Furthermore, the messages I received were from three of the five tickets. 
That is not the whole story. There were flyers every­where, some of them without the proper student activi­ties authorization for display. One ticket's team even went into unlocked rooms around campus and put flyers on people's desks. This gross disregard for personal pri­vacy drove me away from voting for that particular can­didate. 
Of the five tickets, only the obvious joke ticket which did nothing to even try to win, avoided using these tac­tics. It is a sad statement to democracy when st"udent government elections can not even be run without cam­paign improprieties. Sadly enough, this strategy works. I know a lot about each ticket because of this intrusive campaigning. So who knows what will happen? In a few years, maybe Dick Cheney will be spamming my inbox telling me to vote for him too. Well at least I'll be able to put that into my junk mail folder alongside all those herbal Viagra ads I keep getting. 
God bless America. 
John Nawara sophomore Zahm hall Feb. 14 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Megan O'Neil Ken Fowler Nicole Zook Kyle Cassily Maureen Mullen Eric Retter Are you going to "The Vagina Viewpoint Tim Dougherty 
Monologues"?

Laura Sonn Scene Graphics Brian Graham Ebetsch Doxtader Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''A little more_persistence, 
~Submit aLetter1 
a little more ej)ort, and what seemed hopeless failure may turn to glorious success." 
•to tbe Editor at I 
Elbert Hubbard American philosopher
;www.ndsmcobserver.com 1 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 15, 2006 page 11 
LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
An ideal worth striving for 
One part of Univnrsity President John .Jenkins' address on academic frnedom and Catholic character that has largely !wen ovnrlooknd is also one of tho most challenging and consequential. Jenkins lauded the "scholarly temperament" as one of tlw highest ideals of tho University of Notre Dame, a quality which he described as "a Socratic con­vktion about one's ignorance, and a corresponding willingness to entnrtain questions and various answers to thnm." lie went on to note that such a tmnperanwnt "demands an appreeia­tion of tho eomplexitins in any area of' n~ality. high standards of inquiry and infernnee, a reluctanen to settle for the current synthesis, and a rnsistance to a prmnature elosure of qunstions." 
This should he a serious provoeation to each mnrnb<1r of our community, as it posns a far greater ehallenge to the character of this university than does his proposal to adopt more carefully definnd limits on the sponsorship of certain events. Taken as seriously as it d<~servns, and as seriously as I believe it was intended, it is an invitation f'or us to strive to bt~ a great university, a Catholic university and a much freer community than many of us have imag­irwd to bn possible or worth striving for. 
• .Jnnkins' words indicate a university which is intm1S11ly concerned with a thirst f<ir a truo understanding of reali­ty in all of its dimensions and thus, one not settling for halfctruths, one contin­ually searching and qunstioning, one not eontent with any rnduction of our desir11 to understand things and to grasp their mnaning and their interre­lation. To this nnd. Jenkins correctly insisted that, "It is the nurturing of this scholarly temperament that deserves, and indeed demands, academic free­dom." That is a much firmer founda­tion for academic freodom than any based only on thin notions of unre­strained individual interests, because it dnmands of us that academic freedom bn engaged in a deep, uncompromising and inexhaustible quest to comprehend lht~ nature, significance and intercon­nnetndness of all things. 
From this perspective, merely the tol­nranee of diversn views on campus without any authentic engagement of our humanity in its capaeity for criti­dsrn and judgnwnt is virtually irrele­vant to the mission and identity of a great univ11rsity. If' that is what is mnant by ;u~adnmie freedom, it is almost trivial and much too uninterest­ing to thn serious quostions of our lives to warrant a deep commitment. In fact, an uncritical free-for-all can be worse than insignificant, because it encour­ages the opposite of freedom: the sub­jection of our reason to the whims of intellectual fashion; sentimentalism and moralism (whether of the right or of the left); or mere inculcation upon our students of the opinions of others (and the power, monny and self-inter­est behind them). That is why Jenkins was right to af'lirm that, "Our greatest contribution as intellectuals and schol­ars ... consists rather in the cultiva­tion in ourselves and in our students of' this scholarly temperament in a world that is often uncomfortable with uneor­tainties, questions and now perspec­tives." 
But then what is the place of Notre Dame's Catholic identity in this insis­tence on the free­dom of' our rna­son to reach always onward'? 
sider the relationship between academ­ic freedom at Notre Dame and a con­troversial campus event such as "The Vagina Monologues." Its sponsors' goal of raising awareness of violence against women is necessary and urgent 
as Jenkins himself acknowledged. The play purports to serve this laud­able end by presenting monologuns of women talking about their sexual expe­riences, which aim to provoke us with their explicit images and language. 
The issue isn't-or really shouldn't be -only that some might be shocked by the assertive use of the word "vagi­na" or that others lind the behavior described offensive to their moral sen­sibilities. The more fundamental prob­lems are, lirst, that the aggressively ideological manner in which it is 
pushed as a 
piece of advoca­
cy, including its 
ritualistic regu­

The intelleetual larity every year, 
Jenkins' words indicate a
and moral tradi­does not remote­
tion in which we university which is intensely ly foster the ideal 
are situated pro­concerned with a thirst for a true of deep inquiry vides a sustained, and critical
understanding ofreality in all of
complex and reflection char­
its dimensions and thus, one not
deep grappling acteristic of the with the mystery settling for half-truths ... scholarly tnm­
of human life and the universe around us, but one that is mostly ignored, and sometimes systematically excluded, from the intellectual life of most elite universities today. Notre Dame can't be a great and Catholic university without a pervasive and seri­ous attempt to propose this tradition as an explanatory hypothesis for under­standing the things that we study and teach and for ordering the way we ought to live as a community. To be very dear: in the context of study, teaching and research the Christian tradition is a proposal, not a shield from inquiry or an obstacle to knowl­edge, but an invitation to verify some­thing, to test it through sincere criti­cism (in the original, literal sense of "separating" or "evaluating") ~~end thus to arrive at a more mature appropria­tion of its value. It is an understanding of Catholic character reJ1ective of a dynamic life, not of formal and sterile doctrine. The scholarly temperament in its encounter with tradition is an open­ing up of reason, not a closure of dis­cussion. This is what I understand to be the real weight-and the attrac­tiveness-of Jenkins' appeal. 
Only against the background of those broad premises can we reasonably con­perament, but 
rather blatantly 
undermines it. 

And second, in substance the play seems to reduce the meaning and value of women's lives to their sexual experiences and organs, reinforcing a perspective on the human person that is itself fundamentally a form of violence. In its radically reduced understanding of and love for human dignity in all its richness, the play thus shares the same root as every violation of human rights, including in particular the many grave violations of the human rights of women throughout the world today. 
The problem of academic freedom in this ease therefore has to do not simply with the presence of the play on cam­pus. but more with the failure to take it up and understand it in any seriously critical way, especially in a manner that might expose and question its violent reduction or the person through a vig­orous, genuine engagement of the Christian intellectual and moral tradi­tion. That tradition proposes to us instead that the immeasurable worth of the human person is rooted in our direct and total dependence on God, evident to us through the mystery or the Word made 11esh. Only in this relation­sbip of my 'T' with that infinite "You" can my frnedom be assured in every circumstance and from every injustice, power or ideology. The evnnt of that encounter is what gave birth to this University, named after the woman who lived her freedom and dignity more fully than anyontl else in all of' history. This is the history that Jenkins is asking us to remember and to make a vital part of Notre Dame's character today, so that we might seek a true education of our hearts and minds in the fullest possible freedom. 
Which is the moro ambitious, morn demanding and morn nxaltnd view of aeademie freedom, education and research: one that is satisfied with a complacent weleoming of every dimin­ished or demeaning view of our ration­ality and our humanity that may be given by the prevailing conventions of the world; or one that insists uncom­promisingly on the scholarly tempera­ment and urges us not to settle for any­thing that fails to correspond adequate­ly to the ultimate valuo and meaning of our lives'! 
The greatness and promise of the University of Notre Dame consists in striving toward the latter as its goal. It pushes our research to be both broader and deeper. It impels our tnaching to be more dedicated to tho good of our stu­dents in friendship rather than giving in to boredom or the temptation to indoc­trination. It urges students always to look for reasons am~ to remain open to those answers that can more fully satis­fy their deepest yearnings for truth. jus­tice, beauty and happiness. 
Because so much more is at stake here than in many conventional plati­tudes about academic freedom, the core of Jenkins' vision proposes a heighten­ing of the dramatic meaning of freedom for this community and for higher edu­cation in general, not a restriction of it. Of course, resolution of the practical implications of this vision will certainly not be without some missteps or con­troversy, because the risks of human judgment and thus the limitations of human frailty arn nneessarily in play. 
But this vision does provide a tension toward (as in "tending to" or "reaching out to") an ideal that makes it possibln to start again every day, despite every mistake or disagreement. It is a dutl­lenge to us as sdwlars, teachnrs and students-a ehallenge that can make Notre Damn truly worth dedicating our­selves to with passion and expectation. 
Paolo Carroza <tssociatc professor of law Feb. 14 

The nature of 'Catholic character' 
Notre Damn history professor Brad Gregory finds that his acadnmic f'rendom has been enhanced by a move from Stanford University to Notre Dame. Philosophy professor .John ()'Callaghan reminds his collnague professor Fritz Warfield that while the I>npartment of Philosophy at Notre Dame can host an annual mooting of the American Catholie Philosophical Assoeiation, providing the necessary facilities for daily mass, ete., our sister department at tlw University of Michigan does not tmjoy such freedom. 
I honestly nwan no offense to anyone when I say that (;regory and ()'Callaghan are exaetly right about sonwthing. Gregory is freer to do many of the things he wants to do as a professor at Notre Dame. ()'Callaghan fHljoys the prospect of return visits to campus by the Amorican Catholic Philosophical Assoeiation. 
But just wlwre's tho seoreboard keeping tally in the all-out contest among tho Sweet Sixteen eon­tenders for tho title of "the frnest university of them all?" Does anyone know how to keep seore in this game'! Is this game worth the eandle'! Does this issue help us promote both academic freedom and Catholre character at Notre Dame? The discussion about aeademie freedom and Catholic character is not about who's number onn. 
It's got to focus on Catholic character, because I think most consenting adults understand that the best way to destroy honesty, trust and friendship in an academic eommunity is to bestow more academ­ie freedom on the defenders of a particular position than is granted its critics. Academic freedom ought to be a no-brainer. But Catholic charaeter? Sounds like a topic for a 400-level course to me. 
But we've got to get a few things straight before we think about a syllabus for that course. Sinen we all share a moral obligation to be as intelligent as possible, we must all understand this course will not be Marketing 401. We're not talking about the University as a brand; we're not thinking about the logo or which actors' names can run above the title. 
To the extent that this issun merits all the atten­tion it's getting, "Catholic eharactor" in ust refer to the quality of a Notre Dame education, specifically -since no one argues that "The Vagina Monologues" or the Il'ornwrl ()uner Film Fnstival are vehides for incrnasing familiarity with tradi­tional Catholieism or the doctrines of the Churd1­the quality of moral education at this Univorsity, and, most particularly, moral education about sexu­ality. Presumably the official Catholic view on sexu­al morality is not trivially trun, a matter of obvious first principles; principles never to bo disputed nor proved. But if that teaching has the status of a the­orem duster, eomplex propositions following rea­sonably from first prineiples, tlwn as it is the busi­ness of some to use every possible means to prove that theorem duster, it must be the business of oth­ers to contest it, by all reasonable moans, ineluding those appealing pownrl'ully to the emotions. That. I propose, is what "Catholie character" rnquirns at a university. 
A disputable point, I hopn. 
Ed Manier professor of philosophy class of 1953 I'd>. 14 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, February 15, 2006 
MOVIE REVIEWS 

Uneven thriller bolstered by Pierce Brosnan 
By GARY HOTZE Scene Critic 
Seeing a film starring Pierce Brosnan as a hit man has certain expectations that come with it. But rest assured "The Matador," directed and written by Richard Shephard, will meet none of them -and that's not necessarily a bad thing. 
While it fails at being a real thriller -as many of the previews suggested it would be -it does succeed, at least partially, as a satirical dark comedy. In the end, "The Matador" is an ironic buddy flick and comedy-drama. Ultimately, it's really the story of the strange friendship that arises from a happenstance meeting in a Mexico City bar. 
Brosnan and Greg Kinnear play the two unlikely associates. Julian Noble (Brosnan) is a far-from-noble 


dialogue-heavy. The thriller aspect of the film never really takes hold. "The Matador" in no way seems to know where it is going, which kills the film's momentum toward the end. 
The performances by Brosnan and Hope Davis -as Danny's devoted wife, Bean -keep the flawed movie from completely submerging before arriving at a disordered destination following a somewhat lackluster finale. 
For this and its many other flaws, "The Matador" is a good but not great film. But it is easily Brosnan's best performance to date. He strikes a note 
as the margarita-soaked and ever­aging hit man, in contrast to his drab performance in the lackluster "After the Sunset." 
And if nothing else, no one who has seen "The Matador" will ever view Brosnan, the former debonair James Bond, the same way again. He pro­vides one of the few truly classic moments in the film -the sight of him as he pra-nces through a busy hotel lobby, grasping a beer and clad only in a black Speedo and boots, is unforgettable. 
Contact Gary Hotze at rhotze@nd.edu 
The Matador
hit man whose Danny to help as aging career is 
partner of sorts. often marked The ensuing inter­with frequent play between the intoxication and two men drives sexual engage­Director: Richard Shepard most of the narra­
Writer: Richard Shepard 

ments with tive. 
Starring: Pierce Brosnan, Greg Kinnear, 
prostitutes and But the motion 
young women. Hope Davis and Philip Baker Hall doesn't last long. Danny Wright The story stalls (Kinnear) is a quite often. While morally straight-laced fellow who the exchanges between these two married his high-school sweetheart. characters provide a lot of quirky At the film's start, Danny has fallen dark comedy, towards the latter half into· financial trouble and is trying to of the film, scenes slowly grow more 
Timeless message drives 'Glory Road' 
By COURTNEY WILSON 
Scene Critic 
These days, it is unlikely that any­one would question the talent, influ­ence or place of black athletes in com­petitive basketball. In the 1960s, how­ever, small-minded and racist thinking was still commonplace. 
While "Glory Road" replicates the same predictable formula as previous Disney sports movies, its message res­onates nonetheless. 
"Glory Road" tells the story of how Coach Don Haskins (Josh Lucas) made basketball history by turning around Texas Western University's (Texas University at El Paso) program by changing the makeup of the school's basketball team. He eventually played an all-black starting lineup in the NCAA Championship in 1966 against a white Kentucy team. Haskins, 
needed to recruit top players. Desperate, but nonetheless keeping an open mind, Haskins recruits a team full of black players who, based solely on color, are unwanted by other col­leges. 
Facing opposition from all sides, Lucas plays Haskins' fierce yet con­trolled character impressively. Haskins is tough on his players, demanding discipline both on and off find a way out. 

Each man finds himself in Mexico City in pursuit of career opportunities. For Julian, it's a corporately motivat­ed big hit from his handler, Mr. Randy (Phillip Baker Hall). For Danny, it's a last-ditch effort to land a deal with a Mexican firm that will solve his finan­cial troubles. Their chance meeting at first goes awry as a crassly drunken Julian makes a joke out of the situa­tion that killed Danny's son. 
Complications arise in Danny's deal, . which leaves him stranded in the hotel a couple more days. This is enough time for Julian -suddenly lonely after he realizes it's his birthday -to seek redemption and friendship. He takes Danny to the bullfights and con­fides in him with his unseemly occu­pation, dubbing himself a "facilitator of fatalities." Julian must of course prove this to Danny, and it is only a 
matter of time 
before Julian asks 
the court. Hostile opposition from crowds and local racists are set off by Haskins' stern and unwavering father­like image and powerful locker room speeches. What the movie fails to make clear, however, is whether or not Haskins is working to make a statement by pushing his black ath­letes to the forefront, or whether his actions were merely a coincidental way to win basketball games. Audiences will have to assume both if they are emotionally invested the story. Whether he did so or not, his place in basketball history will forever be respected. 
Haskins and his team are forced to overcome all of the obstacles that come with an integrated team travel­ing through racist southern cities in the 1960s. The film depicts little vio­lence on the actual campus of Texas Western, saving its most dramatic scenes for the hatred and humil­
after leaving his Glory Road iation faced on job as a girl's the road. high school bas­Of course, it
--~7__ -­
;;~V.--· 

ketball coach, is would be almost determined to \ impossible not to make a winning Director: James Gartner compare "Glory 
team despite the Writer: Christopher Cleveland Road" to numer­lack of name Starring: Josh Lucas, Derek Luke, ous other Disney recognition Mehcad Brooks and Emily Deschanel sports movies, 
most obviously 
"Remember the Titans." Recall the story of a black coach who integrates a high school football team. While some points in the movie are predictable and obvi­ously formulated, there is one impor­tant difference. "Remember the Titans," unlike it basketball counter­part, focuses mainly on the relation­ship between the black and white players. 

"Glory Road," however, focuses largely on the success and emotion of each game on the road to the champi­onship. For this reason, it might be assumed that the plot is aimed at a younger, more sports-enthused audi­ence. But the story is no less inspira­tional. 
The best part of the movie comes at the very end, during the credits, with a tribute to Haskins and the entire 1966 Texas Miners team. Clips from the real game and a synopsis of each player's continued success are encour­aging. 
Now more than ever, the inspiring story of Texas Western University's team and its1966 NCAA Championship will continue to be recognized as the most influential game in college bas­ketball history. If nothing else, watch "Glory Road" for its uplifting spirit and positive message. 
Contact Courtney Wilson at cwilson6@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, February 15, 2006 page 13 


"02: The Mighty Ducks," the highly successful sequel to "The Mighty Ducks," follows the USA hockey team as It competes In the Junior Goodwill Games. 
Herb Brooks (Kurt Russell), center, sketches a play In 2004's "Miracle." The film follows the underdog 1980 gold medal U.S. Olympic hockey team. 
By SEAN SWEANY Scene Writer 
As the Olympic Games at Torino kiek into high gear this week, hHadlines arc filling quickly with updates from the Italian Alps. 
For some, the abundance of coverage is pure bliss, but others actively look forward to the closing ceremonies of the 1:old-weather sports. The magic of llollywood can provide a simple alter­native for both those awaiting the next piece of coverage and for anyone hop­ing for warmer weather. Various films use the competitive zeal of the wintnr Olympics as a backdrop, but only a select handful appear ageless and con­tinue to enthrall audiences regardless of thn snason. 
D2: The Mighty Ducks (1994) 
Quack. Quack. Quack. This popular chant, made famous by the first "Mighty Ducks" movie, echoes the sanw goofy snntimentality in this sec­ond film of the Disney franchise. 
Emilio Estevez returns as Gordon Bombay, a minor league hockey hope­ful who must return to coach the Minnesota Mighty Ducks after suffering an injury. The Ducks are invited to a teenage version of the Olympics -the Junior Goodwill Games -in Los Angnlns, Calif. 
Branded as Team USA, the group is quickly ovorwhelmed with the hypn and glamour of Los Angeles. Much like the first film, both the coach and thn team lose focus before rallying around each other at the end of the movie to heat the bigger and meaner Iceland squad. 
There are many rnasons why this should be a bad lilm. The plot is pre­didable and laughable, the acting ranges bntwnen the B-grade talents of Emilio Estevez and Joshua Jackson ("Dawson's Creek") and the hockey presnnted in tho movie is horribly fake. Nevertheless, "D2" has found a deservod place in the hearts of many viewors. 
As expected with a Disney film, the message is positive and conveyed in an internsting format. Any youth aspiring to play hockey is undoubtedly aware of the "Knucklepuck" and "The Flying V," two moves immortalized in the "Mighty Ducks" series. 
Additionally, the dramatic theme song helps mako the movie momorable, especially during the final shootout scene. when the Ducks win victory over Iceland wearing the same uniforms the NIIL's Anaheim Mighty Ducks wear. 
While cheesy and simple, "02: The Mighty Ducks" is a film that resonates and recalls childhood. Tied to the Olympics at least somewhat, it is a film worth viewing to get in the spirit of international hockey competition. 
Cool Runnings (1993) 
"Cool Hunnings" falls in the same genre as "D2" -another feel-good, inspirational family movie from Disney. Inspired by a true story, the film relates the trials of the 1988 Jamaican bobsled team, which struggled against the odds to simply train and compete in the Winter Olympics at Calgary. 
The story begins with Jamaican track runner Dorice Bannock (Leon Robinson, "Oz"), who falls vietim to an accidental tripping incident, disqualify­ing him from representing the Jamaican team at the Olympics. 
In his desire to compete, Bannock decides to organize a bobsled team since one does not exist in Jamaica. In spite of the fact that there is no snow in 
Jamaica and little The magic of ideas. time remains before The hockey in "Miracle" 
Hollywood can provide
the Olympics, he fields is real, as director Gavin 
a simple alternative 
three other men for a O'Connor cast actual team and finds a for both those awaiting hockey players as his coach in Irving Blitzer actors. Unique cameras
the next piece of 
(John Candy, "Home and microphones were
{Olympic] coverage 
Alone"). used in production to Publicly disgraced and for anyone hoping capture the sights and when he had a gold sounds of the hockey
for warmer weather. 
medal taken away for cheating, Blitzer is another misfit who joins the group. Thanks to the acting of Candy and the other members of the bobsled team, there is enough comedy to carry the movie through to its com­pletion. 
The team faces much hardship and scrutiny from outsiders because of its appearance and actions once at the Olympics. Their looks, reggae music and unconventional style draw derision and make them stick out like sore thumbs in the cold weather of Canada -until they begin to perform well and amaze the world. 
This is an entertaining movie that accomplishes what it sets out to do ­tell a story about personal courage in a fun, lighthearted manner. The late Candy turns in an emotional, inspired performance that highlights his diversi­ty as an actor. 
The various bobsled scenes provide enjoyable action, including a funny run down the hills of Jamaica. "Cool Runnings" is another enjoyable Winter Olympics movie that tells of the unend­ing perseverance of the human heart. 
Miracle (2004) 
The 1980 "Miracle on Ice"-the U.S. men's hockey victory over Russia -is documented in the film "Miraele." The movie stars Kurt Russell ("Backdraft") as Herb Brooks. the legendary coach of the team of college players against the Russian juggernaut at the Lake Placid Olympic games. During the Cold War, when the threat of a possible nuclear showdown between the United States and Russia loomed overhead, the world watched as the two countries battled on the ice. 
This excellent film manages to cap­ture the mood of the time while detail­ing the training and play of the Olympic team. The scenario of a young team facing a perennial powerhouse and winning is the inspiration for many sports movies, including the Mighty Ducks series, but this version is the precedent from which the other movies draw their 
scenes filmed for the 
movie. This credibility 

makes the movie enjoy­able for serious hockey fans and those looking for a relaxing watch. 
As the Americans make their way through the Olympics, coming from behind to beat every team they play, the showdown with Russia in the semi­finals takes the world stage. 
Hussell turns in a spectacular per­formance as a stern, caring, plaid­wearing head coach who must lead his team to victory amidst many distrac­tions. 
The historic game against Russia is tense and exciting, capped with the famous AI Michaels question at the final buzzer, "Do you believe in mira­des? Yes!" 
Overall, "Miraele" is well done and presents both the spirit of Olympic competition and a feel-good success story. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
courtesy 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, February 15, 2006 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
Not quite saved, but still good enough 
By TOPHER MAHONEY 
Scene Critic 
Alice Wu's "Saving Face," one of the movies in last week's "Gay and Lesbian Film: Filmmakers, Narr.atives, Spectatorships" series, takes a look at the intersecting li.ves of Chinese Americans living in New York City. 
Written and directed by first-timer Wu, "Saving Face" mainly follows the story of a young lady .named Wil, a sur­gery resident who falls in love with Vivian, a ballet dancer. Vivian is also the daughter of the chief of surgery at Wil's hospital. This spurs Wil to keep the illicit rela-

Photo courtesy of movieweb.com Alice Wu's "Saving Face," a film about being a lesbian Chinese-American, was screened this past weekend as part of the gay and lesbian film screenings. 
tionship secret 
Saving Face

from her extremely tightly knit, traditional and conservative Chinese commu­Director: Alice Wu

nity. 
Writer: Alice Wu
In a concur­

Starring: Richard Chang, Joan Chen,
rent plot line, 
Lynn Chen and Ato Essandoh
Wil's m,iddle­
aged widowed mother becomes pregnant and refuses to reveal the father's identity. This leads Wil's grandfather to disown her unless she can find a husband. With no place to go, Wil's mother moves in with Wil, and hijinks ensue. 

Alice Wu's script keeps things bouncy throughout by mixing different plots. The film is part mystery (who is the baby's father?) and part romance with sort of an unfamiliar, foreign aspect. 
The Chinese immigrant milieu never­theless is set in the every-city, New York. 
"Saving Face" is also a coming-of-age story. But the direction tends to be unimaginative and of little conse­quence. 
Wil's mother is the most interesting character. She's a hypocrite. As a victim of love's mischance, which brings shame upon her family, Wil's mother should understand Wil's predicament as a fellow community outsider. But her only response to Wil's sexual orienta­tion is to ignore it -thus perpetuating the unspoken hostile attitude towards 
Wil's sexuality. 
Wil's mother also starts the film as someone who's never really set foot outside her Chinese immi­grant neighborhood. She has never lived by herself. She has race anxieties, and, most importantly, she's never dated before, complicating 
her urgent search for a husband. 
But Vivian and Wil make a fairly uninteresting pair. Wil is the wide-eyed novice in the rites of love. She never leaves that gee-whiz act behind, nor does Wil's love ever get complicated, which means the possibility for conflict remains unexplored. 
As a simply drawn polar opposite, Vivian seems to just breeze in out of nowhere, already certain of her attrac­tion to Wil and of Wil's attraction to her. Equally uncomplicated is their falling­out -it just sort of happens. 
The time they spend during the rela­tionship is insignificant. As a romantic plot, it almost falls secondary to the subplot involving Wil's mother's dating habits. Wil, for a surgery resident, seems to have both an unusual amount of time on her hands. 
Also implausible is the large amount of energy she seems willing to expend on things that a closeted lesbian would find pointless, such as weekly dances at the. Chinese social club, which functions as a stand-in for the stereotypically conservative Chinese community as a whole. Both of them have their own versions of generi(: young Asian­American parental issues, the perennial fodder for drama in films of this sort. 
But that might be the rub. This is a film that was featured in the gay and lesbian film event. Normalization of the relationship between Vivian and Wil to the point at which it felt dull and famil­iar was probably an ideological victory in of itself. 
Either that, or Wu was afraid to push buttons in what was clearly intended to be a mainstream romantic movie. 
Contact Topher Mahoney at cmahoney@.edu 
DVD REVIEW 
Hard-hitting boxing film comes to DVD 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN 
Assistant Scene Edi cor 
Much like the inspiration for its title, "Cinderella Man" is a familiar story. It explores the common sports film cliche of the underdog triumphing over seem­ing insurmountable odds to find victory. 
While it doesn't necessarily add any­thing new to the genre, it is an enter­taining movie. It has a great cast and an intriguing real-life story, and in spite of some overly sentimental moments, it emerges as an engaging movie. 
"Cinderella Man" follows Jim Braddock (Russell Crowe), a once suc­cessful boxer whose career suffers due to injuries and the onset of the Great Depression. He and his wife Mae (Renee Zellweger) must cope with the encroach­ment of poverty, and Jim must deal with being unable to box the way he used to. Through some hard work and lucky breaks, Jim -with the help and support of Joe Gould (Paul Giamatti), his manag­er -reclaims his boxing career. He faces his greatest challenge, both as a boxer and a family man, when he is called to face heavyweight champion Max Baer (Craig Bierko), who has built an imposing reputation for previously killing a man in the ring. 
The movie is based on a true story, and as far as biographies goes, it does a good job of selecting the most salient part of Jim Braddock's life in terms of interest. While the subject matter itself is interesting, director Ron Howard paces the film too slowly and it would have benefited from some trimming. 
The greatest strength of "Cinderella Man" is its high-caliber cast, and the actors all do a fantastic job with their respective parts. Crowe is a convincing actor both on and ofT the canvas, and he is particularly effective at portraying both the pain and resilience of boxing through just his expressions and physi­cal movements. 
While Zellweger isn't given a great deal to work with and has a number of painfully cheesy lines in the film, she does a good job playing the equally nerv­ous and supportive wife of a boxer. Giamatti's character, like Zellweger's, isn't particularly meaty, but he does a great job as a supportive manager and friend. 
The boxing scenes are extremely well choreographed and gut-wrenchingly effective in portraying the sheer physical pain of boxing. 
Scenes outside of the boxing realm suffer, mostly because of the heavy­handed sentimentality that pervades 
them. Not all of the 

scenes are overly emo­tional, but a few, such as when Mae tells Jim that he is "the champion of my heart," are cringe­worthy. 
The extras included on the DVD focus primarily on the historical back­ground of the film and its production. The short featurette entitled "Ringside Seats" provides historical footage from the Braddock-Baer fight in 1935, and "Friends and Family Behind the Legend" features interviews with people who knew Braddock. "For the Record: A History in Boxing" provides a look at the accuracy of the boxing scenes in the film. 
There are also a number of deleted scenes that come with optional commen­tary from Howard, as well as a short featurette entitled "A Filmmaking Journey," which chronicles how the film itself was made. The featurette "The Fight Card" details how the cast got involved with the movie. 

"Cinderella Man" is far from perfect, but much like the film's protagonist, it manages to overcome its difficulties with determination and persistence. While it is a familiar story, the great cast and loving direction of Howard make it an enjoyable experience, and the extras add historical context to an already strong film. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
Wcdne.~day, February 15, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT page 15 
ROBERT AND REBECCA BLUESTONE 
WOVEN HARMONY SAT. MAR. 4 AT 8 PM 
CLASSICAL GUITAR AND LARGE-SCALE TEXTILE ART 
PHILBIN STUDIO THEATRE I STUDENT TICKETS $15 
Wednesday, February 15, 2006 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Seton Hall drops No. 11 West Virginia in win 
Whitney with 14:22 to play. undefeated in the Atlantic Coast
Duke's Redick eclipses 

The Mountaineers were down Conference. 50-38 when they finally started Freshman Josh McRoberts had
NCAA career 3-point 

hitting 3-pointers. Pittsnogle had 12 of his 16 points ·in the first record in blowout win two 3s and Darris Nichols had half and Shelden Williams also one in an 11-4 run that brought scored 16 for Duke (24-1, 12-0 them within 54-49 with 9:20 to ACC), which is in position to Associated Press play. reclaim the No. 1 ranking in The Laing, whose previous best Associated Press poll next week EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­was 15 points this season against following Connecticut's loss to What 42-point loss? Marist, then started a 7-2 run Villanova on Monday night. Of 
The Seton Hall players had with an alley-oop dunk and course, the Blue Devils still must trouble remembering what hap­· capped it with a 3 with 3 seconds beat Miami later this week. pened last Saturday against top­left on the shot clock, making it The Demon Deacons (13-12, 1­ranked Connecticut after their 61-51 with 6:02 to go. 10) lost their seventh conference 71-64 victory over No. 11 West "I was just being aggressive game in a row. Justin Gray led VIrginia on Tuesday night. and got open shots so I stepped them with 18 points, while Eric 
"That's the type of team we up and made them," Laing said. Williams added 17 points and 13 are," Pirates center Grant "We're really doing well and we rebounds. Billmeier said. "We weren't going got another big win against a The story of this game was to sit around and feel bad. We ranked team." Redick. He got two 3-pointers in had a chance against another West Virginia cut the lead to the first 12 1/2 minutes to give Top 25 team and we took advan­six points four times but the him 414 for his career to pass tage of it." Pirates answered each time. the mark previously held by 
Kelly Whitney had 21 points Pittsnogle 's 3 with 7. 7 seconds Curtis Staples, who had 413 at and 12 rebounds and Brian left made it 69-64 and Whitney Virginia from 1994-98. Staples Laing added a career-high 19 made two free throws with 1.5 was in attendance and presented points for the Pirates (16-7, 7-4 seconds left. Redick with a game ball in a cer­Big East), who had won six The Mountaineers finished 8-emony following the game. straight before the 99-57 loss to for-32 from 3-point range and Redick's first long-range shot The Blue Devils led by 14 at Southern Mississippi in the sec­Connecticut last weekend. shot 37.7 percent overall (23-for-came nearly 7 minutes after the the break before Wake Forest ond half, with Memphis using a 
"We weren't going to let one 61). They are second in the opening tip-off, when he burned briefly rallied. A tip-in by Kevin 14-3 run to make it 57-21. game make us forget we had NCAA, averaging 10 3s per defender Cameron Stanley with a Swinton made it 54-43 before won six a row," Laing said. "This game. step-back jumper. The next trip, Duke responded with a 12-2 run Texas 90, Baylor 63 was another big game and now. "We know that they're going to Redick lofted a perfect lob pass -completed with a layup from Inside and out, No. 6 Texas had this one is even bigger." play good defense. We call it the to McRoberts for a dunk, and Redick -and the Deacons never everything working against 
Kevin Pittsnogle had 24 points New Jersey defense, the strong, added another assist on the recovered. Baylor on Tuesday night. for the Mountaineers (18-6, 9-2), tough defense," Beilein said. "We ensuing possession when the duo LaMarcus Aldridge scored 23 who had won four of five and knew that they were going to hooked up again for another jam Memphis 80, Southern Miss 41 points and grabbed 12 rebounds host Connecticut on Saturday. play that way." by McRoberts. Rodney Carney scored 15 and Texas coasted past Baylor, 
"We're all trying to get as It was the fifth time this sea­The second one led to a three­points and Kareem Cooper had continuing what has been an many wins as possible and they son, and the second in the last 19 point play, and Sean Dockery 13 points and 13 rebounds to easy run through most of the Big took a major step with the win games, that Laing reached dou­stepped out beyond the arc a few help No. 3 Memphis rout 12 schedule. tonight," West Virginia coach ble figures and the third time this seconds later to give Duke a 26-Southern Mississippi on Tuesday P.J. Tucker scored 21 points John Beilein said. "I thought they season Billmeier had 10 or more. 11 lead. It was an 11-point game night for its 12th straight victory. and Brad Buckman had 12 played tremendous defense on Seton Hall is 3-3 this season a few minutes later when Redick Darius Washington and points and 11 boards for the us. We couldn't make shots the against ranked teams, having got the record. Shawne Williams had 11 points Longhorns (22-3, 10-1 Big 12), way we normally do." beaten Syracuse and North Using a screen by Lee each for Memphis (23-2, 9-0 who are off to their best start in 
Seton Hall entered the game Carolina State on the road. Melchionni to lose Justin Gray, Conference USA), and Robert conference play. last in the Big East in shooting "In order for us to be consis­he took a pass from DeMarcus Dozier finished with 10 points, The Longhorns have hardly percentage (41.7), but the Pirates tently good, we have to defend Nelson for an open catch-and­hitting all three of his shots from been challenged at home in the shredded the Mountaineers and rebound. Then we can take shoot from the wing. The ball the field and all four free throws. Big 12 this season, winning six inside, scoring 44 points in the the game to another level," Seton swished through, setting off a Courtney Beasley scored 15 league games by an average of paint. Seton Hall shot 49.1 per­Hall coach Louis Orr said. raucous celebration by the points for Southern Mississippi 25 points. Texas has a one-game cent (27 -for-55) for the game, a "UConn was just one loss. We Cameron Crazies. (8-17, 2-8) and David Cornwell lead over Kansas, with the number even more impressive don't give up 99 points in a Redick wasn't done yet. He added 10. The Golden Eagles Jayhawks coming to Austin on since the Pirates went 2-for-15 game. That isn't what we do. went to the other end and got a shot 28 percent in losing for the Feb. 25. from 3-point range in beating There's a song that says 'I fall steal, which led to a three-point eighth time in their last nine "We know it's near the end of West Virginia for the fourth down, I get back up.' Well, we play and a 34-17 advantage. He games. the Big 12 and these are the straight time at Continental might have fallen down, but we had to sit through a media time­Memphis led 34-10 at the half, games that really count for us," Airlines Arena. got back up. This team doesn't out before converting his free the lowest total for a Memphis Tucker said. "These are the 
The Pirates' starting frontline quit. I've never coached any throw, and when he returned to opponent in a half this season. games you've got to go out and was 18-for-25 from the field with team like this." the line, the crowd chanted, "All­The Golden Eagles scored two have the killer mentality." Whitney going 6-for-10, Laing 8-This was West Virginia's third time leader!" as his record was points in the first 10 minutes and Aaron Bruce scored 15 to lead for-11 and Billmeier 4-for-4. straight game on the road. The announced. failed to score in the final 7 min­Baylor (2-9, 2-9), which has lost 
West VIrginia entered the game Mountaineers lost at Pittsburgh He didn't acknowledge the utes. 17 in a row against Texas. 15th in the 16-team Big East in and beat Georgetown in their applause but did take time to With Tigers defenders denying The last time Texas and Baylor field goal percentage defense previous two games. accept congratulations from passes and pressuring the ball, met, Daniel Gibson dominated 
(43.9) and Seton Hall certainly Dockery and Nelson. The free Southern Mississippi shot 15 per­Baylor with a career-high 37 took advantage. Duke 93, Wake Forest 70 throw was a mere formality for cent from the field in the first points in a 66-47 win, picking up 
"Going inside was something J.J. Redick needed two 3-point­Redick, and he finished the first half and had 13 turnovers. the Longhorns with nine 3-point­we focused on the last two days ers to break the NCAA career half with 18 points. Memphis had its own problems ers against a zone defense in practice," Whitney said. "I felt record. For the top scorer in Even better, Redick passed in the half, committing nine packed in under the basket. like I let the team down against Division I, it wasn't much of a VIrginia's Bryant Stith for fourth turnovers and missing 10 of its He didn't need to do it again. Connecticut and my teammates challenge. on the ACC career scoring list, first 13 shots. That hindered the Thcker, Buckman and Aldridge got me the ball inside as much as The Duke senior made those and he remained on pace to pass Tigers from building the lead to scored almost at will as Texas possible tonight and this bounce necessary shots and added two Dickie Hemric at the top of the double digits until midway built a 24-point lead by halftime. back was huge." more on his way to 33 points, list. He had 2,587 for Wake through the half. Memphis Thcker had 12 points by halftime 
The Pirates opened the second helping the second-ranked Blue Forest, and Redick now trails by scored the last 15 points of the after being held to just two points half with an 11-3 run to go up Devils run away from Wake 60 points with five games half. -on his last shot in the final 48-34 on a free throw by Forest Tuesday night to remain remaining in the regular season. Things just didn't get better for seconds -in the first meeting. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web 06-07/3BR2BA/2AttGar/AIIAppl not go it alone.lf you or someone site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary 1 mileN/built2000/.5acre you love needs confidential support 574-993-2208 or grooms@ourweb-$1200mo/Grad0nly/RENTND@ aol. or assistance, please call Sr. ML spotnet com Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more 
WANTED: NOTRE DAME STU-2006 grads w/a BS in Civil WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED-information, see our bi-weekly ad in DENT MODELS CO-ED, the No. 1 Engineering. Job functions ROOM HOMES COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINI-THE OBSERVER. college magazine, consist of land MMMRENTALS.COM UMS AVAILABLE FOR 06-07 PERSONAL is looking for the next big thing I You development engineering 532-1408 SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED-There is no theory of evolution, just have a for ROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY. 235-Spring Break 2006 with Student a list of creatures Chuck Norris shot at $5,000 and will be in the Site/Civil firm in Stop overpaying 7234 FOR MORE DETAIL Travel Services to Jamaica, allows to live. pages of CO-ED! Indiana and for rent Mexico, Bahamas and Florida. Do Send pies to Kristyna@coed-Florida. Visit BlueGoldrentals.com Large 4-5 bedroom house. 2 full not get left behind! Book now, limit-Jordan, you deserve the University magazine.com Please send baths. ed space available. Call for group an apology for your For more info, visit all resumes and 123 NO Ave. Close to NO. $1100/mo. discounts. Info/Reservations 800-weekend. COEDmagazine.com or call questions to 3-bdrm, 1.5 bath. 650·851·3361. lmacswain @com-648-4849 www.ststravel.com 201-420-3300. mhoward@ rw-engineering.com Call574-229-0149. castnet Michael Maus is bad at floorhockey. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don 
NOTICES WANTED FoR RENT 
.r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
~­

OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, Pebruary 15, 2006 CoMPI LED FROM T1··IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 17 

NBA Standings 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
ttmm  record  pet.  GB  
New Jersey  27-22  .551  
Philadelphia  24-26  .480  3.5  
Boston  20-31  .392  8  
Toronto  20-32  .385  8.5  
New York  14·37  .275  14  

Eastern Conference, Central Division 
tnam rncord pet. (;}~ 
Delroll 41-9 .820 
Cleveland 30-21 .588 11.5 
Indiana 25-23 .521 15 
Milwaukee 26-24 .520 15 
Chicago 22-28 .440 19 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
tNtm record pet. GB 
Miami 31-20 .608 
Washington 26·24 .520 4.5 
Orlando 19-30 .388 11 
Atlanta 15-34 .306 15 
Charlotte 14-39 .264 18 
Western Conference, Northwest Division !Pam 1'1\!'.0rd pet. CB Denver 28-25 .528 
Utah 25-27 .481 2.5 
Minnesota 22·29 .431 5 
Seattle 20·31 .392 7 
Portland 18·32 .360 8.5 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
l.!l!Lill record pel.. GB Phoenix 33-17 .660 LA Clippers 30·19 .612 2.5 LA Lakers 26·25 .510 7.5 Golden State 23-28 .451 10.5 S.acramento 23-28 .451 10.5 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
tnam r!'cord pet. (;B 
San Antonio 40-11 .784 Dallas 40·11 .784 New Orleans 28·23 .549 12 Memphis 28·23 .549 12 Houston 21-30 .412 19 
Men's College Basketball Big East Conference 

I.Pitlll I'Onf. ovnrall pd. 
Villanova 10·1 20·2 .909 West Virginia 9·1 18·5 .783 Connecticut 9·2 22-2 .917 Georgetown 8-3 17·5 .773 Pittsburgh 8·3 19-3 .864 Seton Hall 6·4 15-7 .682 Marquette 6·5 15·9 .625 Syracuse 5·5 17-7 .708 Cincinnati 5·6 16·9 .640 Providence 4-6 11-10 .524 Rutgers 4·7 14·10 .583 Louisville 4-7 16·8 .667 St. John's 3·8 10·12 .455 NOTRE DAME 2·8 11-10 .524 DePaul 2-9 9·13 .409 South Florida 0·10 6·11 .261 
around the dial 
WINTER OLYMPICS 8 p.m., NBC 

MEN'S COLLEGE BASK-ETBALL Georgia Tech at North Carolina 7 p.m., ESPN Cincinnati at Syracuse 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 Oklahoma at Colorado 9:30 p.m., ESPN2 

WINTER OLYMPICS ­
Associated Press 
SESTHIEHE, Italy -Not that long ago, Ted Ligety was everything Bode Miller is not: unknown, unsponsored, unaeeorn­plishml. 
Now, thanks both to his own dean. aggrnssive ski­ing and nrrors by Miller and other favorites, Lignty is an Olympic champion. 
Miller still is not. 
"It's groat to be whern I am," tho 21-yt~ar-old Ligety said, his voice hoarsn, "but it's unexpeet­ed, that's for sure." 
Nevnr bofore a competi­tor at a Winter Cames, 

TURIN 
ntwor bof'ol'l~ a winner of any major raee, Ligety produced two speetaeular slalom runs to pull out the combined event Tuesday night, only thn fourth time in Olympic history an Amnriean man has eolleet­ed a gold medal in Alpine skiing. 
A few hours before, it appoarnd Miller might win that medal. Fastest in the downhill portion of tho thren-lng nvnnt, he was disqualif'ied after strad­dling a gate in the first slalom. 
In :~2nd placo following the afternoon downhill, Ligety took a star turn under the lloodlights dur­ing the evening slalom. lin was as consistent as a metronome, rocking smoothly back and forth, back and forth, smar.king away gates with his orange glovns and bla1:k shin guards. 
"You've just got to gnt in tlw starting gal.t~." Ligety said. "and throw down whatevnr you'vn got." 
When lw finishnd his final run, tlw day's fastest at 4 ;{ .H4 s P r.on d s , tlw youngstPr nirknamnd "Ligety Split" raisPd his hands and took a well­deserved bow. 
Still, Ligety had to wait 
IN BRIEF 

Rose-Holman hires second­
youngest NCAA coach 

TEBBE IIAUTE, Ind. -Stevo Englehart has been promoted to lwad football coaeh of Hose-llulman, bneoming the sneond-youngest coaeh in NCM football. 
Thn 28-year-old Englnhart had been the offensive coordinator sinee 2003 and was quarterbacks coach in 2002. The youngest eoaeh is Brian Galvaletz of Principia College, Ill., who is six months younger than Englehart. 
Hosc-Jlulman was 5-5 last season undor Tod Karras Jr., who resignnd to aeeept the Marian, Ind., head eoaching position. Marian, a private sehool of about 1,300 students, will become Indiana's 21st football-play­ing eollego in 2007. 
Englehart played high school foot­ball for Terre Hautn North and col­lege football at Indiana State. 
Hose-llulman went 14-16 in the three seasons aftnr his promotion to ofl'ensivo coordinator. 
Plushenko positions him­
self for Olympic gold 
TUHIN, Italy -Evgoni Plushenko's biggest fan Tuesday night was his dosnst competitor -U.S. champion Johnny Weir. 
Weir marveled at the 90.fl(J points tho Hussian star put up in tho Olympie nwn's short program. Pluslwnko's personal best gave him more than a 10-point lead over the three-time .U.S. champ, a massive gap. 
"It's wild. I didn't think anyorw would got above 80.00," Woir said. 
Plushonko soared far beyond it and pretty much put the gold medal in his pocket, even if he wouldn't say so. 
"It's a lot of pressure right now, guys, come on," Plushenko said. "Nothing happenod. I just skatnd today porfeet and did my job." 
Plushenko, winner of' three world titles, was Weir's piek for gold bnf'orn the Olympies began and Weir still doosn't think there's mueh of a chanee ho'll lose in Thursday night's free skate. 
to celebrate. 
First, lviea Kosl!dic of Croatia finished a half'-snr.­ond shy. 
Then, World Cup slalom ehampion Bt~njamin Baich of' Austria wont oiT-coursl' about :w snconds into his run. 
That was it. U.S. skiers Stnvnn Nyman and S1:ott Macartney ran ovl'r to tacklP l.igdy, and tlw trio of' tPammates roiiPd in tllf' snow. Lignty took a virtory ride on tlw otlwrs' shoul­ders, waving a U.S. llag. 
"It's a gl'l~at day, eSJH'· eially with Bode skiing out," Mar.artrwy said. "TPd stepped up." 
Radmonovic, Wilcox pack
bags for new destinations 
SEATTLE The Snattln SuperSonics traded forward Vladimir Hadmanovil: to the l.os Angeles Clippers for Chris Wikox on Tunsday. 
Hadmanovie, who will be a free agent after the snason, has struggh~d for tho past month despitn bning put in thn starting lineup al'tnr nnw eoaeh Bob llill took over on .Jan. 3. 
Hadmanovie, who turnocl down a $42 million, six-year deal with thn Sonies before the season and signed a one-year tender instead, is avnrag­ing 9.3 points-down from tho 11.H he averaged last soason. Bneause he signed a one-year tender, Hadmanovie had the right to block tho trade. 
Wikox's produetion also has dwin­dled, even with the Clippers duLl­longing for the Pacific Division lead. The h-foot-1 0 forward is playing only 13 minutes per game and aver­aging 4.5 points. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 15, 2006 
WINTER OLYMPICS -TURIN 

USA slices Kiwis with win 
U.S. men's curling team having strong showing at games 
Associated Press 
PINEROLO, Italy -The 
U.S. men are hogging wins in Olympic curling. If they keep this up, they might start get­ting as much attention as the American women. 
Pete Fenson's team picked up a 10-4 victory over New Zealand in eight ends on Tuesday, wrapping things up two frames early a day after a last-rock loss to Finland. 
"I still say we're playing pretty well," American vice­skip Shawn Hojeski said. "Unfortunately, yesterday we 

missed the last shot of the day." 
The Americans' next game is against host Italy, where curling is usually associated with fusilli. Throw in Wednesday's game against the winless Germans, and Fenson's team (2-1) probably needs to steal just one or two more victories in its other four games to reach the medal round. 
The U.S. women, mean­while, fell to 0-3 with an 11-5 loss to Canada on Tuesday morning, followed by a 6-5 loss to Japan later in the day. The American women, who started with two of their toughest opponents, need to win at least five of their remaining seven games to qualify for the medal round. 
So did sisters Cassie and 
AP 


Jamie Johnson deserve all of their pre-Olympic ink? 
"Of course they should get the attention," men's lead John Shuster said. "They're coming ofT a silver medal .at the worlds." 
Neither team wants the attention for itself as much as for the hacks, hammers and hog lines beloved by curlers but befuddling to a country that doesn't know those terms refer to the push-off blocks, the last stone and the red lines that divide up a curling sheet. 
"As long as curling's getting the promotion it's getting, that's really good for the sport," Hojeski said. "Whether it's our team or their team, I don't think it matters." 
New Zealand went score­less for five straight ends despite having the last rock -a big advantage, called the hammer-in four of them. 
In the third, the Kiwis (0-3) tried to sneak a rock through 
a  couple  of blockers  and  
nicked  one  of them.  The  
Americans  overcame  the  

hammer -think of it like a tennis player breaking serve -for the first of three times in a four-end span. 
New Zealand managed to snap the slump in the sev­enth, but in the eighth Fenson kept clearing them out of the target zone and scored three. Kiwi skip, or captain, Sean Becker shook hands to concede. 
A regulation curling match has 10 ends, or innings, but a team usually concedes when it doesn't have enough rocks to catch up. 
WINTER OLYMPICS -TURIN 
Great One focuses on Tealll Canada's future 
Associated Press 
TURIN, Italy -Wayne Gretzky said he didn't do it. Again. 
He said his own troubles won't affect Canada's supposed­ly good-as-gold Olympic hockey team. Repeating himself there, too. 
Looking tired and drawn, Gretzky arrived at the Olympics with Team Canada on Tuesday, recapping what he's said for days but is vowing not to talk about anymore: that he placed no wagers with a betting ring allegedly run by one of his best friends and possi­

"As I said seven
bly patronized by Also making the his wife. days ago, it doesn't trip was Gretzky's "As I said seven father, Walter,
involve me." 
days ago, it does­who darted n't involve me," around the press
Wayne Gretzky 
Gretzky said. "''ve conference room said it for seven executive director looking for a good days, it's over and Team Canada vantage point as won't discuss again at Turin the gambling ring alleged to be run by one of assistant coaches and longtime friends, Hick Tocchet. 
"Quite frankly, this is the last time I'm going to talk about it," said Gretzky, the NHL's all-time scoring leader and arguably Canada's most revered citizen. "I've stood forward each and every day, and I'll talk hockey all day long, take any questions about the hockey team or the Olympic games. But, quite frankly, it's over and done with." 
Gretzky was accompanied to Turin by wife Janet Jones, who 
is alleged to have 
placed bets with 
the gambling ring. 
done with." 
But where he said it -at the Olympic games -was different. 
So was the size of the audi­ence. His press conference was televised live throughout Canada, where the NHL's all­time leading scorer is a trusted, respected cultural icon. 
Now, like it or not, Gretzky understands his problems could immerse others should Canada not live up to its own immense expectations in a tournament it won in 2002 and is expected to win again. 
"If we don't win the gold medal obviously I'll get blamed, but I've been blamed for losses before. It's not going to change my life," said Gretzky, who as Canada's executive director is effectively the team's general manager. 
No matter what happens, the Phoenix Coyotes coach said he his son talked. 
Not that the 

elder Gretzky heard anything different ­Gretzky repeated much of what he said at a pre-Olympics news conference Monday in suburban Toronto. 
There, Gretzky repeated he did not place any wagers with any betting ring and there was no reason for him to leave his job with the Olympic team. Canada's players have fully sup­ported him, and several said the investigation will not be a dis­traction as they try to repeat as gold medalists. 
"We're thinking about what athletes have to think about, and focus on the job at hand," Canada coach Pat Quinn said. "They have to put things aside, and whatever that distraction may be, that's exactly what they expect of tbemselves and we're all going to move forward."
Call for Student Nominations 
The College ofScience 
invites student nominations for 
Kaneb Teaching Awards 
Take advantage of the opportunity to nominate your best professor in the College of Science for a Kaneb Teaching Award. 

Nomination forms may be found on the College of Science webpage at: http://www.science. nd.edu/kanebAward.shtml or you may pick up a nomination form in the Dean·s Officel 174 Hurley Hall 
Deadline for nomination is Friday, March 1 
Return to : Sr. Kathleen Cannonl O.P.I Associate Dean Dean·s Officel College of Science 248 Nieuwland Science Hall 
Wt:dnesday, l;ehruary 15, 2006 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Wright signs seven-year extension with 'Nova 

Coach led Wildcats to best Big East start in program history 
A.~soriatcd Press 
VII.IANOVA. Pa.-Jay Wright n~eoivod orw hock of a reward for knocking oil" tlw No. I loam in t.lw eountry. 
Ono day arter his fourth­ranked Wildcats beat Connoclieut, Villanova on Tunsday gave Wright a seven­year eonlraet extension through the 2012-1 ;{ season that gives him many morn chances to beat a No. 1 -and maybe even take his team to tho eovnted spot himself. 
"Thn liming of this is inerndi­bln," Wright said. smiling. "I know it looks like we really plamwd this well." 
It was an incredible 24 hours for Wright artnr the Wildcats (20-2, 10-1 Big Eastl beat the lluskios 69-64 Monday night, their first victory over a top­ranked team in nearly 11 years. 
Wright and Villanova athletic direetor Vince Nicastro had talked about an extension since spring after the Wildcats returned to the NCAA Tournament for the first time since 1999. The timing of the announeement was purely coin­
-----..
Proprietorsr-------­
1 
Warren & Linda I I 
I I I I I
?irs/ Or~(jinaf'Azza in 'Joa1nI 

I I
Since 1951 

I I
$2 off Any Size Pizza I Eat in Only I I Expires March 31 , 2006 I 
I I
537 North St louis • South Bend, IN 

I.. _____________:;74-233-24(,4 ..I 

cidental. since the new deal couldn't be approved until the board of trustees meeting Tuesday morning. 
Still, it's two memorable days for Wright in what has already been a remarkable soason. 
The Wildcats raced to their bost start in conference history and have their sights set on a No. 1 send in this year's tourna­ment. They've done it with a unique four-guard starting line­up that was born out of necessity when star forward Curtis Sumpter was lost with a torn ACL. 
"We're right where we want­AP ed to be right now," Wright said. Villanova head basketball coach Jay Wright talks with reporters "Honestly; I didn't think it would on Tuesday after signing a seven-year contract extension. 
take this long. God had other plans. We had some struggles." 
I !ired in 20<>1 to replace Stove Lappas, the Wildcats went to the NIT in Wright's first three sea­sons. Parts of two seasons were severely derailed because of a phone-card scandal that forced the Wildcats to field a seven­man team and greatly under­achieve, including a 15-16 mark in 2002-03. 
The 44-year-old Wright banked Villanova's turnaround on this year's highly recruited senior elass of Allan Hay, Handy Foye, Jason Fraser and Sumptnr. Thny all played major rolns in the renaissance the past two seasons, even if injuries have only rarely allowed them on the court at the same time. 

Introducing Student Wing Night!!! 
***Students can now get our award winning wings at our Tuesday special price of 35 cents on Wednesdays!!! ***Skip the Tuesday crowds and join your fellow students for a great night out. 35 cent wings from 6:00 p.m. 'til close with avalid college 10 card every Wednesday!!! ***Watch the big games on one of our 32 TV's, including 6big screens!!! *** Play NTN trivia for free. *** Fun atmosphere for all, daily drink specials for patrons 21 and over!! 
LEGION ...BE LOUD AND BRING YOUR MEGAPHONES! 
~---.......... 

One Luckv.Notre Dame
student Will win books
fora vear! 
r­
1 
I 
I page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, February 15, 2006 
I 
~ 
I• 
I NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
I 
I 
Indiana's Davis will ride out Hoosier problems 
Hoosiers have lost five of last six games 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Mike Davis 

doesn't plan to resign, quit or 
leave Indiana any time soon. 
Arter fueling speculation Monday that his tenure with the Hoosiers might be shortlived, Davis said in interviews Tuesday that he appreciated the opportu­nity to coach one of the nation's top basketball programs. 
''I'm not quitting. I'm going to coach the remainder of the sea­son," he said during an interview with The Sporting News Radio. "We're right there at making the tournament; we're right there. Now someone has to lose for us to have a chance to win the con­ference championship, but every­State for Wednesday's game, thing is right there." Davis told Indianapolis television 
Tuesday's Hoosiers practice station WTHR that he could not was closed to reporters. The comment on whether he would school released quotes from return next season but that he Davis afterward -but referred believed IU should be one of the 
to his comments Monday during the 
''I'm not quitting. 

Big Ten's weekly conference call I'm going to coach with each of the 
the remainder of 
league's coaches. 
the season. " 

Questions about Davis' future have increased with the Mike Davis Hoosiers (13-8, 5­
Indiana head coach 

5 Big Ten) losing five of their last six country's premier programs. 
"If that means me being here or not being here, I have no problem with that," Davis said. 
After a promising 10-2 start, this sea­son has turned sour for Davis, who 
games and dropping out of The has gone 109-75 since he Associated Press Top 25 this replaced the fired Bob Knight in week for the first time this sea­September 2000. While he son. coached IU to the 2002 NCAA 
As the team boarded a plane in championship game, the Bloomington to travel to Penn Hoosiers went 29-29 over the 
SNOWBOARDCROSS 
An1erican injured in debut sport 
Associated Press 
SAUZE d'OULX, Italy -The rough-and-tumble sport of snowboardcross claimed its first Olympic victim before the open­ing race was even run when American Jayson llale tore up his knee during a practice ses­sion Tuesday. 
Hale was running alone, not four-wide as is typical in compe­tition, when he got too much air on a late jump and landed awk­wardly. 
He was taken to a medical center in Sestriere. Dr. Jim Sterling, the U.S. Olympic Committee's chief medical offi­cer, said Hale tore his anterior cruciate ligament and suffered significant bone bruising around the knee. 
"He is comfortable and sta­ble," Sterling said. 
Hale returned to the athletes' village in Bardonecchia, where the snowboarding events are held. He is expected to decide in 
the next few days whether he 
wants to remain in Italy for the 
remainder of the games or go 
home. 

He was not immediately avail­
able for comment. 
His spot on the U.S. team is expected to be taken by Graham Watanabe, an alternate who traveled to Italy to serve as a wax technician for his friends on the team, but now will likely find 
-himself racing in the Olympics. 
The USOC and U.S. Ski and 
Snowboard were preparing to 
submit Watanabe's name as an 
injury replacement. Barring any 
surprises, Watanabe will race 
for the United States on 
Thursday when snowboardcross 
makes its Olympic debut. 
In the final rounds of snow­
boardcross, four riders race 
down the motocross-type course, 
taking big jumps and vying for 
the fastest line down the slope. 
The top two in each heat 
advance to the next round until 
a winner is decided. 
"It's definitely a little crazy," American rider Jason Smith said last week. "You're going down course as fast as you can with three other guys. That's got to be a little crazy. But we're all pro­fessionals, we've all been doing this a long time. We know the risks involved." 
There are also timed qualify­ing heats in which riders go alone. Much of training is about trying to find the fastest line down the mountain, which is what Hale was trying to do when he wrecked. 
The 20-year-old from Sierraville, Calif., tore up the same knee last March, shortly after finishing third in the 2005. World Championships. 
Hale returned in September and had a pair of top-five finish­es in World Cup events this sea­son, squeezing onto the Olympic team at the last moment. He was ranked 13th in the world coming into the Olympics, behind American teammates Nate Holland, Seth Wescott and Smith. 
past two seasons, missing the NCAA tournament both years. 
Davis wants his team to con­centrate on winning as Indiana has six regular-season games remaining before the Big Ten tournament. 
"It's just too mueh emphasis on Mike Davis. It's just too much emphasis on every press confer­ence. It's just too much emphasis on where he's going to be at next year," Davis said in the radio interview. "It's been six years now. So it's time for everybody to get on the same page and just pull for these young men." 
When Davis was asked Monday to explain why Hoosiers fans have embraced him tepidly, Davis suggested it was because he wasn't an Indiana alum. 
On talk radio and on Internet sites, many fans speculated that meant Davis had already deter­mined his future would likely be elsewhere. Not so, Davis said Tuesday. 

"I appreciate this opportunity; it's a blessing for me," he said. "If I say some things out of line, if I say some things people don't agree with, I'm not the first one to do that." 
Davis missed Saturday's 70-67 loss to Iowa, the Hoosiers' first Big Ten home loss of the season, because of flu-like symptoms. Davis attended Tuesday's prac­tice, departed with the team for Penn State and was expected to coach the Hoosiers on Wednesday. 
The question now is whether the Hoosiers can end their slump in time to save their coach's job -something even Davis can't answer yet. 
Associated Press 
The University of Missouri will investigate the circum­stances that led to Quin Snyder's sudden resignation as men's basketball coach last week. 
Snyder stepped down Friday, a day after vowing to fmish his seventh season with the Tigers. A report in the Kansas City Star said athletic director Mike Alden sent his special assistant, Gary Link, to inform Snyder that he would not be retained. 
Link has had no comment about his role in Snyder's resig­nation. Alden has said he asked Link to "gauge how he's doing," but not to inform Snyder that he was a lame duck. Link did not return phone calls Tuesday. 
University spokesman Joe Moore said Tuesday that Elson Floyd, Missouri systems presi­dent, asked Chancellor Brady 

S UJt,fJt,f_ER 
LAJVGUAGE GRAJVTS 
UNDERGRADUATE COIVIPETITION TO CONTINUE FOREIGN LANGUAGE STUDY DURING THE SUIVIIVIER. 
Grants are designed to COV'er only a portion of' prograiiTI costs-
F-~<.')r details anc1ar>t.,lication t<')rtns, g(-, to: 
http://www..nd...E!I!du/-sumllang/ 
Pick up applicati-ons 'l'roo...., th-Offic-oo'l' lnt-rnatioonal Stucli-s ­( ... 54 Hurl~y Building -Ph ... -5203) 
applicatie>n d~adlin~= IVIARCH 3, 2006 
JJ!ff 


Sponsored by t:he Of"fice of" Int:ernat:ional St:udies. t:h e College of" Art:s and Letters. t:he Nanovic Inst:it:ut:e f"or European St:udies & 
t:h e IVIendoza College or Business 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Missouri to look into Synder's resignation 
Deaton to investigate the situa­tion. Chad Moller, the sehool's sports information director, also confirmed the decision to "take a look at the course of the events." 
"Dr. Floyd did ask Chancellor Deaton to look into some ques­tions regarding events sur­rounding coaeh Snyder's deci­sion to depart," Moore said. 
Missouri won its first game without Snyder on Sunday, ending a six-game losing streak behind interim coach Melvin Watkins. The Tigers are 11-11 overall and 4-7 in the Big 12 with five regular-season games remaining. 
Snyder was scheduled to make hi<> fust public comments sinee his departure at a news conference later Tuesday in Columbia, Mo. His lawyer, Wally Bley, said the former coach had been awaiting a signed settlement agreement. 
A copy of that settlement, posted on the university's Web site Tuesday evening, shows the eoach will receive at least $574,000. Snyder had two years remaining on a contract that paid him $195,000 annu­ally. 
"If you were involved in this, wouldn't you want this to be signed, sealed and delivered?" Bley said. "We've got to have the deal done. I've got to see this in writing." 
Bley also represented former Missouri point guard Hieky Clemons, whose troubles off the court in part led to Snyder's downfall after leading the school to the NCAA tournament his first four seasons. 


Wednesday, February 15, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 

Belles 
continued from page 24 
a roll. 
"Wn'vn had a lot of frnshmen mature during this season and that has led us to win a lot more gamns," senior eaptain and guard Bridgnt Boyee said. "Wn'vn boeorne a lot tougher mentally, and I don't think we eould have won without it." 
Tho first matchup against Albion also boostnd thn Bolles' nwntal toughness, Boyee said. 
Boyce said Saint Mary's showed in that game it could win as the underdog in a close gamn -and without ono of its main eontributors, point guard Bridget Lipke. postseason. A win tonight guar­In order to complete the sea­antees the Belles third place in 
son  sweep  the MIAA and  
against the Britons, Saint Mary's will have to stop  "We've had a lot of freshmen mature and that has led us to win a lot  the first tour­nament game in Angela Athletic Facility  
Albion guard Jaime Fornetti, who has scored  more games. We've become a lot tougher mentally,  in more than five years. "We've been  
in double digits  and I don't think we could  playing really  
in four of the  have won without it. "  well and have  
last five games.  kicked it up a  
Saint Mary's also must force  Bridget Boyce  notch at the end of the sea­ 
the Britons to  Belles guard  son,"  Bender  
keep the ball  said. "We have  

on the perimeter and take a potential to host a team in the lower percentage shots. playoffs, and are really looking 
Senior forward Shelly Bender forward to it." said the game is very important to the Belles, as it could lead to Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at a first-round home game in the jfitzpaS@nd.edu 

Spartans 
continued from page 24 
said. 
Last year, the Irish earned a hard-fought 4-3 victory in East Lansing. 
"Their courts are pretty fast and we've always had trouble playing there," Bayliss said. "We're certainly more com­fortable playing them here." 
Bayliss and associate head 

Get Flowen for CHEAP 
starting TODAY 
Irish {i#:rdeos 
L't'ortUlJ& "J?,~&l1J&tJt 


-~~-­
join Us For Our Texas Hold'em 
First 

POKER TOURNAMENT 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2006 Doors Open at 2pm Limited Re-Buys Available Game Begins at 4Pm ATM, Food & Beverages
(South Bend Time) $100.00 entry fee includes $25 registration 
'?'Vt4e Ptaee 

PRizE PooL 1s 1o% oF THE FIELD TOTALLING 
$22,500
I 0 000
• 
Register early at: www.fop36.com 1at Place Prlze and Prize Pool based on 300 participants prizes will be adjusted for fewer participants 

coach Todd Doebler took team effort," Bayliss said. advantage of the depth in the "Just looking at the scores, dif-Irish lineup ferent people this weekend, struggled a
"I am very aware of

trying new little bit to variations who [the Spartans] have win their throughout and what their matches in singles and one match,
tendencies are." 

doubles. but then 
The results played much were clear: Bobby Bayliss better in a dif­two 6-1 victo­ferent one."
Irish coach 

ries and a 7-0 The team shutout to cap off the weekend has exhibited strong play against Bradley. throughout the lineup, includ­
"I think it was more of a ing the top two positions. 

"Sheeva [Parbhu] and Stephen [Bass) have to carry the load at one and two," Bayliss said. "They alternated positions over the weekend, they both found ways to win when they didn't always have their 'A' game." 
The rest of the lineup wasn't far behind. 
"Brett [Helgeson] and Barry [King) and even Ryan [Keckley] have played at close to the same level," he said." I thought Eric played a strong match against Wisconsin, fin­ishing the match on a much more aggressive note than it started ... [and] Ryan Keckley continued his dominance down low in the lineup." 

Changes in the doubles line­up have also been effective. 
"Andrew Roth's really been a sparkplug for us at third dou­bles," Bayliss said. 
The Irish hope to continue their strong performance today against the Spartans. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
MLB 
Francona enjoys time with daughter after his knee surgery 
Associated Press They were for his daughter, 19th on both knees combined. stepped down. Red Sox have tried but failed to Alyssa, a North Carolina fresh­The surgery was done about six Not long after Epstein's depar­honor trade rnquests by Manny 
FOHT MYEHS, Fla. -An man who played last weekend in weeks after the Red Sox were ture. Damon signed with the Ramirez and David Wells. exdtnd Terry Francona watchod a softball tournament in Miami. swept in the AL division series New York Yankees. Just one Francona took it all in stride, his third baseman get ofT to an It was a welcomed change for by the Chicago White Sox and month after that, Epstein hobbled though that stride impressive start with a new the Red Sox manager, who lost three weeks after Epstein returned as GM, but so far the may be. team: four hits in eight at-bats eenter fielder Johnny Oamon plus thren walks and two HBis and GM Theo Epstein (temporar­in._thren g<_tme~. .. . ily) during a hectic offseason. 
I was hke, m tnars, hn satd. Francona also lost his knee. and they wernn't for Mike He had his right knee replaced Lownll, Boston's new third base­nearly three months ago -the man. 1Oth operation on that knee and 
• CO\ved PartPJ 
• Laroy Facities On Sile 
• Wwetesslrenet 
4.0 Student Living At Notre Dame (888) 278-5962 
New Look. Better Lifestyle. Still Closest To Campus. 
NOW LEASING FOR 2006! 
Mention This Ad And The Application Fee lsFREE! 
. , 
1710 E. TU1Ue Creek Drive

Apply Online At 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 www.campuscribs.net Trroec:reet<-tNf£l~am.co ..""" 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 15, 2006 
Bulls 
continued from page 24 
have come just before schedule lulls. The Irish beat Providence 92-77 on Jan. 14 for their first conference win, moving to 1-3 at the time. But after six days of rest, they lost consecutive games to Marquette, Georgetown, Villanova, West Virginia and Louisville. 
South Florida -new to the conference this season -is the only winless team in the Big East, but the Bulls lost to the Hoyas, Wildcats and Cardinals by only three points each. The Georgetown and Louisville losses were on the road, as well. 
"I think they really like to play on the road more than at home," Brey said. "They really, 
fearlessly,  go  on  the road.  
They'll  be  excited  to  play  
here."  

Notre Dame is coming off a 90-63 blowout of the same Rutgers team that won 91-84 Sunday over Marquette -a team that beat the Irish by two points on a buzzer-beater Jan. 
20. The Big East produces such parity. 
Irish senior forward Torin Francis was named to the Big East Weekly Honor Roll for the third time this season after scoring 21 points and grabbing seven rebounds against the Scarlet Knights. He combined with senior forward Rick Cornett (14 points, seven rebounds) in that game to dom­inate the inside on both ends of the court -a performance Brey hopes to replicate Wednesday. 

"(South Florida] really, physi­cally, get[sl after you defensive­ly," Brey said. "They're pretty straightforward with how they play. They're a talented group. I know they haven't had the best of luck finishing games, but we can't feel sorry for them." 
Notre Dame is 9-4 at home this season but only 2-3 in Big East games at the Joyce Center. The Irish have five games remaining, including tonight's test, to make up ground on teams ahead of them for the final spots in the 12-team Big East tournament field. 
Providence (4-6), Rutgers (4­7). Louisville (4-7), St. John's (3-7), DePaul (2-9) and Notre Dame are all at the bottom of the pack. And if Marquette (6­5), Syracuse (5-5) and Cincinnati (5-6) hold their spots at Nos. 7, 8 and 9, that will leave just three openings. 
Three other Big East games take place tonight, all with cer­tain or possible implications for Notre Dame postseason hopes. 
Pittsburgh plays at Providence, Cincinnati visits Syracuse and St. John's goes on the road against Rutgers, with all games beginning at 7:30p.m. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Michigan 
continued from page 24 
The last time Notre Dame faced this Big Ten foe was in last year's match when the Irish claimed the 7-0 victory ­one of only two shutouts Michigan suffered last season. Today, the Irish are hoping to use their three nationally ranked doubles teams to their advantage to follow up on last year's success. 
"No other team in the coun­try has all three of their dou­bles teams ranked," junior Christian Thompson said. "(Coach Jay Louderback] said he'd be shocked if we gave up any doubles points this sea­son." 
The No. 1 ranked Thompson twins are hoping to lead the team in trying to dominate their opponents as well rebounding from their first loss of the season. The duo fell to North Carolina's Sara Anundsen and Jenna Long 8-3 last weekend. 

"Last week Catrina and I struggled mentally," Christian Thompson said. "We just did­n't take advantage of the break points and that is what hurt us. But we have two other great doubles teams that we can count on to pull through." 
Following the Thompson sis­ters are the No. 35-ranked pair of sophomore Brook Buck and freshman Kelcy Tefft. Playing at No. 3 for the Irish and ranked No. 45 in the country is the pairing of sen­iors Kiki Stastny and captain Lauren Connelly. 
In singles, playing at No. 1 for the team is No. 24-ranked Catrina Thompson, who shares the most wins on the team this season with Stastny at 13. 
Following at No. 2 is Christian Thompson who is coming off an impressive 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 win over No. 46­ranked Caitlin Collins. That victory clinched the win for the Irish over the Tar Heels 

JENNIFER KANG/The Observer Irish All-American Catrina Thompson prepares to deliver a serve during Notre Dame's Jan. 28 win over Ohio State. 
Saturday. 
Buck is playing at No. 3, fol­lowed by Tefft, Stastny and freshman Katie Potts at No. 6. 
"Katie has had a great start this season. Her wins at Wake Forest and North Carolina have really helped the team get off to the great start we've had," Catrina Thompson said. "We are definitely going to need her in today's match." 
Following the match against Michigan, the Irish will return back home to compete against Tennessee and Harvard Saturday and Sunday, respec­tively. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

LOYOLA UNIVERSITY CHICAGO SUMMER SESSIONS 
Your Summer Classroom: Get Ahead or Try Something New! 

'<:=<·:·: n~::=:  Experience lakeside campuses  
near Chicago internships and  
summer fun.  
~#f  Earn a year's worth of science or  
foreign language credit.  
f.~t~  Study abroad in eight exciting  
destinations!  

II Choose from more than 100 courses taught in four convenient sessions. 
Early Session 
May 22-June 16 
Summer Session A 
May 22 -June 30 
Summer Session B 
July 3 -August 11 Summer Session c 
June S -July 28 1.800.262.2373 
LOYOLA 
UNIVFRSJTY CHICAGO 

Lives .<o::..• 

Apply online today! www.luc.edu/summer 

Wednesday, f<ebruary 15, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

ALEC WHIT'£ & ERIK POWERS
JOCKULAR 

ADAM r'AIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 
LAfORTUN~  IS  
VJ HE. R£  "/OU.  CP. N  
BE KIN))  ME.  15  '"'fl.l€..  MA~E  0'-\T  WIT\-\  
LAFoRTuNf'_  STU'be:.N-r  SoM t:' ON E: • PAsr  
C..E:NIEJt. 61FT  OF  2:ooAM  f'.ND  NO  
SoME  C::~U'j  Wl-\0  ON E.  Wil-L  STol>  
I'M  0.0 1I'J(;(  To  '(OU  'BECAUSE.  
61.H:5S  Wf>..S NAME.t>  SE.C.R.'C:.IL'-j  IHE'J  
RKK.  LAFOIZ:TUNE:..  1-\ ~£.  'NATC..I-I IN t".  
CROSSWORD  

ACROSS 42 M. : France :: 71 Fred's dancing __ :Italy sister
1 DNA half 43 Diving raptors 

6 Went over like of bricks 45 Luau serving DOWN 10 Plunder 46 Barely ahead 1 Firefighter's need
14 Hold forth 48 Geographical combo #3 2 Middle of Q.E.D. 
15 Curb 52 Snitched 3 Yuri's love, in16 Ninth in a series "Doctor Zhivago" 53 "A Book of 17 Geographical 4 Slanted writing Versescombo #1 
underneath the 5 Illiterates' 20 Series finale 

Bough" poet signatures 21 Catchall 
54 Optometrist's 6 Drawer category: Abbr. 
field 7 Waiter's after­

22 Lock 
57 Part of a casa dinner offerings 23 Goddess with 
59 Pro's rival 8 6-Down cow's horns purchase63 Classic novel, 

25 Way back when 
following "A," 9 Dir. from 27 Geographical with a literal hint Columbus, Ga., combo #2 to 17-, 27-and to Columbus, 48-Across Ohio
34 "Family Ties" mother 66 Food thickener 1 o "Listen" without hearing35 CD follower 67 Swabbies 11 Opposite of 36 Went kaput 68 Stick-on 
gush 37 Island chain? 69 Portend 
12 "Miss 38 Easy run 70 Prohibitionists Regrets" 
13 Plates ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
18 Bypass ":"T...-r:-:-r::-:-r::,., 19 Result of an insect bite 
-:=t-;:+:...•• 24 Courted ... or used the courts ..,.....,...*,.......,:+.+.:-! 26 Nautilus captain ~,:,.w_.,:+:-fl!l~-=+~ 27 V.I.P. 28 Olds offering 29 Perjury r:-:+~:-+:::1 30 Bandleader Shaw 31 Golfer's wear 
~=+::;.ttt!!~+;:::..l-::-l 

-;:+;-;+,;:+.-;-! 32 Isabella, por ejemplo 
...;...&.;::;.&..;~;..,~ 33 Barely beat 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. · 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
6U\ 'E:,E C.ARE:-F\.lL Of:" IKE (.0\...\C:.H'ES 
IN IH E.. '\\I 
L.OUNl:rE,. M'\ 
FR.IE. N!:> (":101 
$C.A S \ E.S F 12:.01"\ 
-rHE.t-'\ ONE -nME.. 
No 'J'O~E.. 

WILL SHORT'Z 

39 Australian  49 Fictional dog  56 Bag brand  
export  from Kansas  58 Haywire  
40 Kindergarten commendation 41 Bluefin or  50 "I didn't care about that anyway"  60 "Way to go!" 61 Blue hue  
yellowfin  51 Apple of many  62 Tropical stop  
44 "What'd I tell  colors  64 Bouquet  
ya?!"  business  
47 Like many  54 Wild guess  65 Cider girl of  
family flicks  55 Moor's betrayer  song  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make cheeks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name---------------------­Address------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one 

letter to each square, I'm building a chain 
to form four ordinary wor.ds. because people can't 
....
stop eatin9 these 
PROAN 
1 
rJ () 
!02006 Tnbune Madia Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
VERBA 
j
I I r () 
OXCIBE 
1 
rJ [] 
www.jtlmblo.corn 
EDUCAD 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as 

'---U......£..J'-"'-"""-'----L---L---' suggested by the above cartoon. 
( I J I I 
Answer: HE 

"[IIIIIIIJ" 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: TYPED JUMPY UNFOLD ASYLUMYesterday's Answer: 
What the math teacher did before his class ended -"SUMMED" UP 
I 

EUGENIA LAST
HoRoscoPE 

CELEI1RI"fiES HORN ON THIS llA Y: Drew Bledsoe, 34; Meg Tilly. 46; Florence Henderson, n; II ugh Downs, 85 
lfappy Birthday: Don't put things off or expect someone else to take on your responsibilities. You must push a little harder this year if you want w gain any ground. You will have to stay on your toes ifyou wanl to keep things tmwing along rhythmically. Your numbers arc 5, 18, 22, '27, 39,45 
1\RIES (March 21-April 19)~ Every ounce of your energy should go intn moneymaking deals, work or a worthwhile project. Keep the doors ofcommunication open. It's important that you stay involved as an integral part of the equation. ••• TAl!RlJS (AJlril 20-MA Y 20): Nothing is wonh fighting over. You can have a much better time ifyou keep your opinions to yourself and you listen to what others have to say. Allow yourself the freedom to try something you have never done before. ••••• GEMINI (May 21-.Junr 20): This isn't the day to start something new. Tidy up what's been on your to-do list. Don't usc force or pressure when dealing with loved ones. You won't get your way if you arc pushy. u CANCER (,June 21-.Jul)' 22): Things are beginning to go your way and it's certainly time for you to spread your wings and try new things. This is the perfect lime to develop an idea or present it to someone who can hdp you out. Don't look at any changes being made at work as hcing bad. •• •• LEO (Jul)· 23-Aug. 22): Don't limit yourself. You shouldn't be backing away from the things you want to do. Put more time and en<Jrt into making things at home more comfortable lor you both mentally and physically. Be honest about tht· wav you !eel. 3 stars • VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Pleasure, pa~sion, being innovative and trying new things is the order of the day. Travel and stimulate your mind in whatever way you can. Love and romance are looking very promising.••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't get all worked up owr nothing. Put more time and effort into enjoying yourself instead of worrying about what others arc doing or saying. Be honest and straightlotward. 3 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Keep in mind that anything can he worked out if you communicate. Make some changes to your residence and your personal life. Helping someone will aid you in following an interest you've had for some time. • • •• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Urr. 21): Anything to do with travel, excitement and adventure will beckon you but tread carefully --you may end up overspending. Avoid an argument with someone who would prefer you to take a path less perilous. Think twice about what you do. •• CAJ>RICORN (l}rr. 22-Jan. 19): Take time out to do something special with someone you enjoy spending time with. This is a great day for love and romance. A job interview or change will turn out in your favor. Follow your dream~. 4 stars AQUARiliS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be honest about your current partnerships. If someone isn't be forthright or you !eel you can't communicate well enough to make your relationship bctt~r. consider moving on. It could cost you ~motionally, m..:ntally and financially. ••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Everything will be up in the air regarding your feelings. Try not to let your personal problems interfere with your productivity. A chance to get ahead, sign a comract or make some money is evident. ••• 
Birthdny Baby: You arc clever and extremely passionalc about the way you do things. You are meticulous, engaging and extremely creative. You adapt wdl to change and you thrive on experiencing new things. You are channing and socially smart. 
Eli}(L'IIia'.s· Web sites: astruadvicc.comfUr fim, eugenialas/.com.ftJr CPI!!iclcntial cmrsu/tatiun~ 

.---------------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, February 15, 2006 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Crunch time 
Irish look to tame the Bulls in crucial conference contest 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
The last time Notre Dame received this long a break in Big East play, it returned to lose five straight games. But the team stayed alive for postseason eligibility by beating Rutgers Feb. 8. 
The Irish (11-10, 2-8 Big East) have had a week off leading up to tonight's 7:30p.m. tipoff with South Florida (6-17, 
-
0-10) at the Joyce Center. Entering the season's final stretch, they know repeat­ing such a losing streak would leave them watching the Big East tournament from their home televisions in mid-March. 
"Everybody wants the opportunity, no matter what you do in the regular sea­son, to get to your league tournament," Irish head coach Mike Brey said at a press conference in the Joyce Center Monday. "But we knew the rules [of qual­ification]. We knew the ground rules before we started this thing, so you deal with it." 
Notre Dame's only two conference wins 
see BULLS/page 22 


SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles seek tenth league vvin against Albion 
A Saint Mary's victory would mark the first double-digit win total in program history 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
The Belles are trying to reach .500 for just the second time this season tonight at Albion College (15-8, 7-7 MIAA). 
The only other time Saint Mary's (11-12, 9-5 MIAA) had an even record was after a 65­61 win over Franklin in the team's second game of the sea­son. The Belles lost their next four games. 
But with their recent stretch of six wins in their last eight games, the Belles are serious contenders going into the MIAA tournament, boasting a 9-5 record in conference play and a guaranteed finish of no less than fourth place. What's 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish look to wrap up their longest homestand of the season with a 4-0 record at 4 
p.m.  today  as  they  face  
Michigan State  at the Eck  
Tennis Pavilion.  

The No. 31 Irish improved to 5-4 with three straight victo­ries at home over the week­end. 
"I think everybody was tired Sunday with two matches, and the day off was good," head coach Bobby Bayliss said. "I think we're ready to go." 
The Spartans are tied for No. 75 nationally and boast a 4-4 record coming into today's match. 
'Tm very aware of who they have and what their tenden­cies are," Bayliss said. 
Michigan State has a strong doubles team, including Nick more, a win tonight would give the Belles their first 10-win season since joining the MIAA in 1997. 
Saint Mary's is confident going into this game, especially after its first encounter with Albion. In a last minute thriller on Jan. 18, the Belles upset Albion, then 12-4, in a show­case of sophomore guard Allison Kessler's talents. 
The 55-51 win instilled the team with a surge of confi­dence and helped the Belles recognize they had players who could carry the team on their backs. 
And after showing its tough­ness in three dose victories over the next three weeks, the team enters tonight's game on 
see BELLES/page 21 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Michigan poses test for tea111 
Notre Dame rallies with the Wolverines in Ann Arbor today 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
Coming off the team's biggest win in five years, Notre Dame looks to continue its success in a matchup with a long-time rival. 
The Irish are putting their current season's undefeated record and 10-1 record in their past 11 meetings with the Louderback Wolverines -on the line today at 4 p.m. in Ann Arbor, Mich. four days after toppling No. 10 North Carolina. 


Notre Dame has dominated the series in the past decade, but this season the Wolverines are coming into the contest with momentum. Michigan is entering the match after upsetting No. 31 Maryland 4-3 in a come-from-behind win on the road last week. 
But the Irish are looking to prevent any possibility of their winning streak being snapped. "We have had a lot of success against them in the past and are off to a great start this season," junior Catrina Thompson said. "But we don't want to overlook any of our opponents." 
see MICHIGAN/page 22 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish will host Spartans at Eck 
Rinks and Adam Monich, who have lost only one match this season -to Ball State's Joe Epkey and Matt Baccarani, ranked No. 4 nationally. 
Rinks is also a dangerous singles player. 
"He was in the final four players [of the 2005 ITA Midwest Regional Championships] so we know he's a good player," Bayliss 
see SPARTANS/page 21 

en 
WINTER OLYMPICS
NCAA BASKETBALL 

NCAA BASKETBAlL 
WINTER OLYMPICS
WINTER OLYMPICS 
NCAA BASKETBAll 
w

1--u z A day after his team 
The University of 
The United States 
Hockey great Wayne 
Ted Ligety won 
After losing to West 
upset the No. 1 Huskies, 

Missouri initiated an 
curling team set the 
Gretzky arrived in Turin 
Olympic gold in the 
Virginia by 42 earlier

a: :3 
C) c:s Villanova coach Jay 
investigation of the 
tone for the rest of the 
for the Olympics amid 
Men's Combined 
this season, Seton Hall 
Wright signed a seven-

abrupt resignation of 
tournament with a 
speculation about his 
Tuesday after Bode 
upset the Mountaineers 

a. =: cc 
year extension with the 

coach Quinn Snyder. 
dominating win over 
involvement in a 
Miller was disqualified. 
71-64 Tuesday. 
Wildcats. 

New Zealand. 
gambling ring. 
en 
page 20 
page 19 

page 18 
page 18 

page 17 
page 16 






