.• 

Jenkins delivers verdict 
President says he will not ban 'Monologues;' establishes guidelines; committee 

By MADDIE HANNA 
News Writer 
Future performances of "The Vagina Monologues" will not be prohibited on Notre Dame's campus, University President Father John Jenkins said in a statement released Wednesday morning -a conclusion to two months of impassioned debate about the complex relationship between academic freedom and Catholic character at Notre Dame. 
While the sexually explicit Eve Ensler play lay at the heart of recent controversy, Jenkins' statement -which also estab­lished guidelines for sponsoring academic events and announced the formation of an ad hoc com­mittee to prevent violence against women -held broader implications for future University policy and Notre Dame's identity. 
"It's not on a compromise on the ideals of Notre Dame," Jenkins told The Observer Wednesday afternoon. "Certainly there will be people disappoint­ed. Some people would have wanted 'The Vagina Monologues' banned altogether; some people are offended that the issue was even raised. And as I said in my statement, to those [people) I say, 'This is a Catholic universi­ty.' 
"We're going to have multiple [viewpoints] in discussion. We're also going to be serious about including a Catholic viewpoint and maintaining a balance.'' 
The decision comes as a fol­low-up to addresses Jenkins delivered to faculty and students Jan. 23 and 24 in which he ques­tioned the place of events "in name or content clearly and egregiously contrary to or incon­sistent with the fundamental val­ues of a Catholic university" at Notre Dame. 
Jenkins, who in 
"Accordingly, I see no reason to prohibit performances of 'The Vagina Monologues' on campus, and do not intend to do so." 
To further advance the goal of eliminating violence against women, Jenkins said he supports both the future production of a play written by "Monologues" student leaders entitled "Loyal Daughters" and the formation of an ad hoc University committee to address gender relations and sexual violence. 
The committee will be com­
posed of administra­
February attend­ed the third and final on-campus  "It's not on a compromise on the  tors, faculty and students, and Jenkins will serve as  
student perform­ance of this y e a r s  ideals of Notre Dame. ,,  its chair. In the statement, titled "Closing  
"Monologues,"  Statement  on  
said the academ­ Father John Jenkins  Academic Freedom  
ic panels that fol­lowed the per­ University president  and Catholic Character," Jenkins  
formances  explained the role of  

appropriately placed the play's academic departments with content in a Catholic context. regards to sponsorship -an 
"These panels taught me and issue he raised in his original perhaps taught others that the addresses when he examined creative contextualization of a the possibility of performing the play like 'The Vagina anti-Semitic Daisenberger pas­Monologues' can bring certain sion play at Notre Dame. perspectives on important issues "The difficulty, as I see it, is into a constructive and fruitful that the play would be per­dialogue with the Catholic tradi­formed at the University of Notre tion," Jenkins said in the state­Dame, using its facilities, implic­ment. ''This is a good model for itly or explicitly sponsored by the the future. University, one of its units, or by a recognized organization of the University," he said Jan. 23. "A reasonable observer would assume that the University is sponsoring an event that, in fact, is clearly and egregiously at odds with its values as a Catholic university." 
But in his Wednesday state­ment, Jenkins said academic departments are "best situated to decide what events should or should not be sponsored.'' 
"Sponsors have a role in com­municating the academic ration­ale for contro­versial events," to consider "context, frequency and balance," Jenkins told The Observer Wednesday afternoon. 
"If someone wants to perform 'The Vagina Monologues,' they'll have to make a presentation to the departments," he said. "Those who are interested in putting on 'Loyal Daughters' are interested in working on that, and that's what we've talked about. But we haven't consid­ered any proposal about 'The Vagina Monologues."' 
The proposal will be presented 
to the University 
Academic
"We're also going to be
Jenkins said. Council for final "They also have serious about including approval. a responsibility a Catholic viewpoint Jenkins did, to make clear -however, men­
and maintaining a
on campus and tion one type of off-that spon­balance., event in the clos­sorship does not ing statement imply endorse­that would be
Father John Jenkins 
ment of the denied a place in 
University president 
views expressed future campus 
by a speaker or of an event as a whole." 
The president said he has "reached a written understand­ing" with department chairs regarding guidelines for their discretion in the sponsorship process -a separate proposal that gives the chairs and College deans a large amount of respon­sibility in handling contentious issues. 
Departments will be expected 
debate -an expression "that is overt and insistent in its contempt for the values and sensibilities of this University, or of any of the diverse groups that form part of our community." 
"I think there are some events or speakers which just do not meet the standards of contribut­ing to serious debates," Jenkins 
see DECISION/page 2 

LLI 

Other Catholic 
Faculty, students 
Editorial:

Jenkins didn't 
New committee 
Church f~ures 
universities vveigh in 
evaluate decision 
Uncovering a cause
..... c:l ;! respond o choice 

'dream too small' 
to fi_ght violence 

agamst women 
Jenkins should be
Cl LLI 
Major religious insti-
The president's deci­
applauded for helping
University communi-
Fort Wayne-South
> 
Jenkins will chair a 
tutions have varying 
Notre Dame find a com­
sion lives up to lofty 
ty reacts to presidential
Bend Bishop John 

c.,:) 
group of administrators, 
policies, reactions to 
mon goal -ending vio­
inaugural goal, an 
statement.
en-= D'Arcy says he's 
faculty and students. 
ND. 
lence against women. 
Observer senior writes. 
z 
"deeply saddened." 


:::1 

News, page 1
= In Focus, page 2 

In Focus, page 3 
In Focus, page 4 
Viewpoint, page 13

In Focus, page 2
u. 

-

--~---­
page 2 The Observer+ IN FOCUS Thursday, April 6, 2006 

COMMENTARY 

DreaiTI alive 

So it was more than an applause line after 
all. 
When University President Father John 

Jenkins dosed his Sept. 23, 2005 inaugural 
addmss by declaring, 
"Let no onn ever again 
say that we dreamed 
too small"-at once a 
nod back to the resolve 
of Notre I >ame f(JUnder 
Father Edward Sorin 
and a thrust fi>rward 
into Jenkins' own era 
-the ambitious, 
unapologetic turn of Claire Heininger 
phrase sent the audi­
ence roaring to il-; fi1et. 
Senior Staff 

To bn in thn Joyce 
Writer

Center at that moment 
was to gladly choke on 
the <Towd's eollectivn passion fi1r Notre 
Dame. 
Exactly fiJUr months later, however, a dif­ferent audience felt a dillimmt kind of suffo­cation emanate from the presidential podi­um. A-; Jenkins assembled the faculty-and the next day, studenl-;-to unveil his bnlief that the "distinctive character and aspira­tions of Notre Dame" could call for certain restrictions on academic freedom, fractures fi1rmed in the Notre Dame eommunity's monolithic support fi1r il<> first-year presi­dent. Could the president-the whispers IL<;kl~d -who at his inauguration so boldly vowed to advance academic excellence and religious faith as "two indespensable and wholly eompatible strands of higher learn­ing" be reversing course, placing the two at odds? Could the priest who disdained "dmaming too small" be the same man now splitting hairs over the words "festival" and "queer"'? 
Sum seemed that way. And Jenkins' initial faculty and student audiences largely behaved IL<; though they a<>sumed as much -first peppering the president with narrow questions in hostile tones, then pleading with or barking at him in defimsive pre­pared statement-;. Naturally, other admini<>­trators, fitculty and students quiekly rushed to laud Jenkins' judgment. Notre Dame looked poised to tnar il<>elf down the middle -the Catholic on one side, the university on the other, with "The Vagina Monologues" the lea-;t of the ca-;ualties. 
But then strange things sta.rtnd to happen. Hathnr than sulking or la-;hing out about their relocation to 101 DeBartolo, student and faculty organizers of "The Vagina Monolo~-,rues" embraced the academic arm of tluJir purpose, organi7ing purposeful panel dL<>cussions to eomplement their provocative performances. Hather than shirking the responsibility of his self~ inflicted spotlight, Jenkins attended the "Monolo~-,rues," and al-;o met with diverse t-,rroups of student-; and faculty to engage their eoneerns. And rather than rehash the same blaek-and-whitn, pro-or anti­"Monologues" argument-; of the past four years, this year-in classrooms, dorm rooms, ollkns and dining halls -people who love Notre Dame debated respectfully and inumsnly about what the "distinctive character and aspirations of Notre Dame" malty imply. About what Notre Dame stands for now. About what Notre Dame might and should beeome. 
Thankfully, Wednesday's closing statement doesn't begin to settle those questions. And that, it seems, wa-; part of Jenkins' idea all along. 
l>nseribing a conu~mporary Catholic uni­versity a-; "where the Church does il-; think­ing," th1~ prnsident on Wednesday refused to suppress speech, but al-;o refused to neglect the Catholic teaching that lies at Notre Dame's rool<; and nurtured il'i growth. With his f.,TlJl<>y acceptane1~ of the dual challenges to examinn thn world through the lens of Catholidsm and to scrutinize Catholiei-;m in thn eonl.f1xt of the world -no topics or vinws barrnd -Jenkins came full circle to his imtuf.,rural promise to "rise up and embr­ace t11e [Notre Dame] mission in our timf1." 
A'i long a-; that duality persisl-;, the mis­sion will be fullilled. And a-; long as the dnbatn continues, Notre Damn and its leader will be drnaming anything but small. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Claire 1/eininger at cheining@nd.edu 

Church figures upset with decision 
D'Arcy 'deeply saddened' by statement; Newman Society disapproves 
if.JY~>>Qv ,<:s 
Atlfl-l~1#aU:. 

11 0·/(: r:~~t~"L.. J'"\l{(,J\... -~ ,J -~~.: L.u;iA,..I Nu.~~... '-t ~ ·1 1 
~~c·:r t(ro·· t1,'ft,..1
.'t/·, !-, h•lt ,·.,·dro/ 1:..,, jt . I . " 
-,., f.J,.,/••.. 
-of 

Photos by CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer 
At left, members of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Ufe protest "The Vagina Monologues" during author Eve Ensler's February 2005 visit to campus. At right, Pope Benedict XVI greets University President Father John Jenkins in Rome this February. 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Edimr 
As the Notre Dame commu­nity looks within to evaluate the impact of the closing statement on academic free­dom issued Wednesday by University President Father John Jenkins, the Church is standing without and judging where this latest missive puts one of the nation's top Catholic institutions in the spectrum of ideology. 
Harsh critiques surfaced Wednesday from several right-wing Catholics who ini­tially applauded Jenkins' Jan. 23 address on academic free­dom and Catho.lic character, which they read as an attack on the controversial Eve Ensler play "The Vagina Monologues." 
The Cardinal Newman Society (CNS)-the national, conservative Catholic organi­zation most recently associat­ed with Notre Dame when it accused theology professor Hichard McBrien of plagia­rism -issued a statement Wednesday afternoon that asked, "Where did Father Jenkins go wrong?" 
While "Jenkins rightly described 'The Vagina Monologues' as antithetical to the University of Notre Dame's Catholic identity" in his Jan. 23 address. the CNS statement read, in choosing not to ban their presence on campus, he "simply ignores the facts." 
The CNS has campaigned for years against the per­formance and reading of 

"The Vagina Monologues" on Catholic campuses. 
Citing the section of Jenkins' statement that spec­ulates the only limitation of speech would occur "in the case of expression that is overt and insistent in its con­tempt for the values and sen­sibilities of this University," the CNS said "The Vagina Monologues" constitutes such a case. 
"Without any explanation, Father Jenkins has either come to a radically different perspective on 'The Vagina Monologues,' or has simply abandoned Notre Dame's Catholic mission," the CNS statement read. '"The Vagina Monologues' and its author Eve Ensler exhibit obvious contempt for the Christian values that the University of Notre Dame once fearlessly embraced, only a few decades ago." 
The CNS then chastised Jenkins for "giving Catholics around the world false hope" in his inauguration speech and January addresses-the "false hope that Notre Dame would come to the same appreciation for its Catholic identity" that has prompted peer institutions like the Catholic University of America, Marquette University, Providence College and Seton Hall University to ban "The Vagina Monologues" on their cam­puses. 
Jenkins' decision, the CNS said, will force Notre Dame to "remain substandard as a Catholic institution for the foreseeable future." 
The CNS statement ends with a series of comments directed against "The Vagina Monologues" from speakers the CNS said Jenkins "point­edly snubbed" Wednesday. Among these voices was Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John D'Arcy. 
D'Arcy was restrained in his reaction to Jenkins' con­cluding statement, issuing only a two-sentence response Wednesday morning. 
"As pastor of the diocese with the sacred responsibility for the care of souls of all our people, including the young men and women at the University of Notre Dame, and with pastoral concern always for the Catholic identi­ty of Notre Dame, as is my obligation, I am deeply sad­dened by the decision of Father John Jenkins, CSC, to allow the continuing sponsor­ship of the Vagina Monologues by Notre Dame, the School of Our Lady," the statement reads. 
D'Arcy then referred back to his previous statements condemning the presence of "The Vagina Monologues" at Notre Dame for "further understanding" of his posi­tion on the matter. 
In February 2004, D'Arcy called the play "antithetical to Catholic teaching on the beautiful gift of human sexu­ality and also to the teachings of the Church on the human body relative to its purpose and to its status as a temple of the Holy Spirit." 
And because it violates basic truths, D'Arcy argued in February 2006, the play 
achieve the balance" of differ­Jenkins said Wednesday ent viewpoints on campus -afternoon. "I don't see it as so
Decision 

but said that "balance" does­much of a balance. I see it as 
continued from page 1 n't neces­sarily char­said Wednesday afternoon. acterize the "People whose rhetoric is relationship hateful or derogatory and between possesses no serious intellec­academic tual substance ... There are freedom other events that may not fall a n d below that, but we need to Catholic think about the frequency of, character at and the context of them. N o t r e "My questioning of 'The Dame. Vagina Monologues' in partic­"I think ular was related to the ques­we can tion of frequency and balance. have aca­So different events have to be demic free-
an affirma­tion of both."

"/ think we can have 
And that

academic freedom in a affirmation 
full sense, we can respect is essential, Jenkins said, 
Catholic character in a 
to upholding

full sense -we want 
freedom of them to enhance one speech at a Catholic uni­
another." 
versity like Notre Dame. Father John Jenkins "After all, 
University president a Catholic university is where the 
evaluated in different ways." dom in a full sense, we can Church does its thinking, and 
From the 10 weeks of dis­respect Catholic character in that thinking, to be beneficial, cussion, Jenkins said he has a full sense -we want them must come from an intellectu­"a deeper sense of how we to enhance one another," ally rigorous engagement with violates the tenets of academ­ic freedom. 
Notre Dame theology pro­fessor Lawrence Cunningham -who said he knows D'Arcy "very well" -said he was not surprised by the bishop's statement, especially consid­ering his past thoughts on the subject. 
"[To release the statement] was not only [D'Arcy's] right but his duty as a bishop of the diocese," Cunningham said. 
Cunningham did, however, offer another reading of Jenkins' closing statement and its relationship to Church teaching. 
"If I take [Jenkins'] letter at face value, what [Jenkins is] trying to say is this: There arc certain things that the Catholic Church stands against, and does so vigor­ously and adamantly, and it is the responsibility of a Catholic university to be aware of what the Church stands for and doesn't stand for," Cunningham said. 
He said this awareness of Church teaching is accompa­nied by an awareness of opposing viewpoints, by virtue of Notre Dame's posi­tion as an academic institu­tion. 
"There's a great line about Cardinal Newman's idea of the university," Cunningham said. "He said, 'The university is a place where mind clashes [with] mind,' with the caution that discussion and so on cannot turn into total advoca­cy." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
the world," Jenkins said in the statement. "For these rea­sons, I am very determined that we not suppress speech on this campus. I am also determined that we never suppress or neglect the Gospel that inspired this University." 
Jenkins said he will stick by his decision as the Notre Dame community observes its impact. 
"People want a kind of sim­plistic answer, but it's not a simplistic situation," he said. "Again, much will be decided, each proposal, on its own merits." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Jenkins decision prompts campus approval 
Faculty members voice support for statement 
By MARY KATE MALONE News Editor 
Convinced their academic departments will not be stripped of their autonomy, fac­ulty members from all corners of campus expressed virtually unanimous approval Wednesday for University President Father John Jenkins' closing statement on academic freedom and Catholic character. 
After heated Faculty Senate meetings, loaded Observer edi­torials and widespread debate among professors across cam­pus in recent weeks, some of the strongest voices in those discussions praised Jenkins for his consideration of other opin­ions in his decision not to pro­hibit "The Vagina Monologues" at Notre Dame. 
"I can't remember the last time I saw a public figure say 'Here's a problem, this is what I think, let me know what you think and I'll pay attention,"' history professor Gail Bederman said. "And [he has] 
see FACULTY/page 4 



Many students say efforts were laudable 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
University President Father John Jenkins' closing statement on academic freedom and Catholic character came Wednesday after two months of encouraging students to voice their opinions to him through e­mail, Viewpoint letters in The Observer and open discussions -a proactive approach that garnered praise from students. 
Student body president Lizzi Shappell said she was pleased with Jenkins' decision to embrace both the Catholic and academic identities of Notre Dame. 
"I think it sets the precedent of truly living out our mission as a Catholic university," Shappell said. "[He is] challenging stu­dents, faculty and staff to pres­ent both religious and secular presentations." 
Shappell said she appreciates Jenkins allowing student gov­ernment and the student body to be part of the conversation 
see STUDENT/page 6 
STUDENT SENATE 

Representatives outline comtnittee goals for new term 
week, as brand new members into better student advising, mittee, has a defined set of said she wants to use "new
Members share visions 

were sworn in as senators. an alumni contact network goals. avenues" -like adding a A new group of students through Goirish, and a con­"Our major issues are reli­male co-chair -in order to
at first group meeting 

representing the University's tinued push for improved stu­gious, sexual and socioeco­"really focus on breaking 
27 residence halls took their dent/faculty relations. nomic diversity," she said. down the awkwardness 
By MARY KATE MALONE oaths and committee chairs The committee on "Those are the major fields toward male and female rela­
News Editor spelled out their goals for Community Relations, we'll be looking at." tions" at the University. 
their upcoming terms. chaired by Josh Pasquesi, Plamoottil also mentioned Chair of the Residence Life 
The first Student Senate Jim Grace, chair of the will be creating a South Bend looking into providing more committee Pat Knapp said he meeting under the new Academic Affairs committee, internship guide for students help for financially needy plans to work on "exciting administration of student said he hopes his committee and a guidebook to highlight students in terms of club new initiatives" including body president Lizzi Shappell can advance the goals different businesses and dues. extending the spring move­and student body vice presi­already set in place by previ­restaurants in the area. Recent transfer student out times, extending Grab 'N dent Bill Andrichik was ous chair Chris Harris. He Sheena Plamoottil, who is Ashley Weiss, chair of the markedly quieter than last said his committee is looking chairing the Diversity com-Gender Issues committee, see SENATE/page 6 

College Park changes its name 
Popular housing complex now called Stadium Club Condominiums 
By KATIE PERRY Assistant News Editor 
The apartment complex formerly known as College Park recently announced its new name -Stadium Club Condominiums -as part of a series of changes under the direction of a new management company, a repre­sentative said Tuesday. 
Susan Miller, leasing agent and man­ager for Stadium Club Condominiums, said the Bulla Rd. housing complex offi­cially changed its moniker March 20. 
see CONDOS/page 8 



Dorm phones -will be removed for fall 2006 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
Beginning this fall, on-campus students will have to pay for room phone services in their res­idence halls -a change that accompanies the University's current dorm rewiring project. 
Jeffery Shoup, director of the Office of Residence Life and Housing, said in the wake of the University's recent rewiring proj­ect, room phones tend to be used less frequently. 
"When we started to look at the rewiring project and the services that would benefit stu­dents, [we found that] most stu­dents weren't setting up their voicemail or using their [room] phones," he said, 
The Office of Residence Life and Housing, the Office of Information Technologies and the Office of Student Affairs came to a consensus decision to remove physical room phones. 
Shoup said a dorm phone serv­ice would be available to stu­
see PHONES/page 8 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, April 6, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 


(Not so) itsy bi tsy spider 
As I was snttling into my bnd a litlln al'tnr midnight last night. arranging my blanknL'> just so, a slight movement on thn (:eiling (:aught my attnntion. 
It was a spidnr.  
"Ciassi(:," you  
might say.  Eileen Duffy  
"()uaint," nven.  
"Why, thos(~ arnn 't  
scary! Thnrn's that  News Writer  
darling childrnn's  

book about a wisn old dame of a spider 
and ... and that song about the silly little 
one who, poor little thing, just ean't 
makn it up tlmt spout! Oh, they're harm­
loss, they're just funny little creatures 
and-" 
Wrong. Not this one. This was a mean­faced one from the wrong side of th!l arachnids. lin looknd like hn might rip up Charlotte's web, kiek her in the face, and thnn usn the watnrspout to clobber that iL'>y-biL'>y wimp. 
I lis nwnadng eyes, nestlnd in a thick, sturdy shnll, llashnd at me. lie inehed dosnr. 
I Inapt from my bnd and erouehed in tlw cornnr, sobbing, praying for deliver­anee, and bursting anew into tears every time I glanend up. 
Just kidding. 
I brought my toddy boar, too, and dutdwd it as I praynd for death. I even thought. had the devil appnared and om~rnd to east mn into thn eternal fires of damnation, I would have wrapped my arms lovingly around his nnck and cried, "Onward ho, kmnosabn!" 
lin nnvnr shownd, the littl(~ devil. I was l.rappnd. My host liunily was aslnep; my l'ri(~nds livn 20 minutes away; my father livns 2,000 milns away . 
.lust as irnagns of spidnr-l'rnn Angers hot(~ls and my nmnrgmwy-only erndit card wnn~ dandng in my hmtd, thn spi­dPr cacklnd nvilly and whippnd out a machirw gun. Wnll. nitlwr that or· he movnd a e!'ntirnntE~r to tlw lnll. The dntails arn a littlE~ hazy. In any ease, he rmnindmlme that lw'd still bn here whnn I canw baek thn nnxt day. 
Evnntually I camn to my sens!ls and grabbnd my cell phonn to call the Unitnd Statns (at the very sensible priee of five dollars a minute). Between choking wails I managnd to explain that no, there was not a robbnr in the home, that the situa­tion wa'> much graver than that indned. 
My aradmid expert advised me to eovnr my nntirn body to prevent skin-to­spider contad and, when I was ready, crush it with a mighty tnnnis shoe. 
Socks on my hands, a ski hat on my h1~ad, barely an inch of skin showing, I stood alom~ in my room in France clutch­ing a broom and my cell phone and sized up my opponnnt. 
I took a swipe. And another. 
lin emerged unharmed, laughing at my attnmpl'>. "I laugh in the faee of dan­ger!" he cried. 
My third swipe sent him flying to the f.,>TOund. With all my might I stomped on that villain, stompnd hL'> evil shell and eruel black nyes, stompnd f(>r Charlotte and the il'>y-biL'>Y spiders of the world, stomped for myself. 
And then it was aU over, and I had won, and in a daze I unravelnd the nquivalent of two redwoods in paper towels and gathered the remains of my prny. 
Thnn I ate his liver with a side of fava beans -and a nice Chianti. 
No, tnt's not get carried away. I put the b<L'>ketball-sized wad of paper in the garbage, took the bag oul'iide, and rnturnnd to spnnd the entire night awake watehing for my victim's family mem­bnrs. 
But I did have a nice Chianti. I'm in France, alter all. 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd. du 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK IS THE MOST COMMON RESLIFE OFENSE? 






Michelle Barron  Michelle Bears  J.J. Cappa  Chris Muth  Barbara McDonald  
junior PE  senior off-campus  sophomore Keenan  senior Morrissey  junior McGlinn  
"Picking tulips from the statue ofJesus on God  "Passing out at dances!"  "Parking tickets, but that's just the  "Drinking in front ofyour RA."  "Stumbling down the hall in front ofyour  

Quad." University's cover-up 
scheme for all the alcohol problems. " 
Emlnem tells wife: 'Lose Yourself' 
Eminem 's dysfunctional relationship with wife Kim Mathers has hit another low -he has filed divorce papers, less than three months after remarrying her. 
"There has been a break­down in the marriage rela­tionship to the extent that the objects of matrimony have been destroyed and there remains no reason­able likelihood that the mar­riage can be preserved," according to the filing, which was made in Macomb County on Wednesday on behalf of Marshall Bruce 
TODAY 

a:: 
LLI 
:::1: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
~ 

<C 
CJ 
0 

ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 
Freshman Kelsey Larson gives blood Wednesday as part a drive held by the Fighting Irish Battalion at the Pasquerilla Center. The event was held with the specific aim to aid United States soldiers. 
OFFBEAT 
donkeys, and suggests the 
animals make better com­
panions as they complain 
less and are more loyal to 
their "masters," The Times 
of India reported Tuesday. 
"A donkey is like a house­
wife ... In fact, the donkey is 
a shade better, for while the 
housewife may sometimes 
complain and walk off to 
her parents' home, you'll 
never catch the donkey 
being disloyal to his mas­
ter," the newspaper report­
ed, quoting a Hindi-lan­
guage primer meant for 14­
year-olds. 

Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Mathers III, Eminem's real name. 
The filing also states that the 33-year-old rapper and his wife signed a prenuptial agreement a week before their Jan. 14 wedding cere­mony in Rochester. It does­n't describe the specifics of the prenuptial agreement, other than to say that "the property of the parties should be divided in accor­dance with" the agreement. 
"Loyal" donkeys better than 
~ves,saystextbook 
NEW DELHI -A text­book used at schools in the Indian state of Rajasthan compares housewives to 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
J) 

..... HIGH 65 HIGH 48 HIGH 65 HIGH 52 
LOW 50 LOW 46 LOW 37 LOW 33 
rector while drunk." 

IN BRIEF 
The SMC Tostal, sponsored by Student Activities Board, will begin at noon today in the Student Center. The event will include chair massages, carica­ture and henna tattoo artists, an indoor picnic in the Noble Family Dining Hall and a con­cert featuring Phantom Planet. The doors to the ()'Laughlin Auditorium will open at 5:30 
p.m. for the opening acts, with Phantom Planet taking the stage at 8:30. 
Henowned Ameriean Chemist and 2001 Nobel Prizn Winnnr in Chemistry K. Barry Sharpless will spnak on today at 4 p.m. in 127 Nieuwland Seienec Hall. 
Madison Center is sponsoring Alcohol Sereening Day, a one­day outreach, education and screening event designed to ndu­eatn the public about alcohol and allow individuals to seek help in a non-threatening, easily accessible manner. Free, anony­mous screenings will be held all day today at the Center in South Bend. 
Saturday from 3-7:00 p.m. O'Neill and Lyons Halls will host recess on South Quad. Bring back your childhood days with free food, inllatables and school­yard games all afternoon. 
Hunners will race in the Holy Half Marathon Sunday begin­ning at 10 a.m. between South Dining Hall and Welsh Family Hall. Students ean still enter by e-mailing holyhalf@gmail.com or registering at 8:30 a.m. on race day. Proceeds will benefit Catholic Charities' Operation Helping Hands. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 
~
~ 

HIGH 57 HIGH 61 LOW 40 LOW 44 
Atlanta 73143 Boston 45 I 36 Chicago 57 I 30 Denver 75141 Houston 83 I 66 Los Angeles 63 I 51 Minneapolis 60 I 31 New York 461 38 Philadelphia 48 I 36 Phoenix 73 I 65 Seattle 56 I 41 St. Louis 69 I 43 Tampa 78 I 59 Washington 53 I 38 
Thursday, April 6, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Blood Drive to benefit U.S. soldiers 
ROTC Battalion collects 67 pints from members of ND community 
By NICOLE ZOOK Senior Staff Writer 
The Fighting Irish ROTC Battalion offered the Notre Dame and South Bend communi­ties the opportunity to fight alongside them this week as part of a blood drive that will ulti­mately help United States sol­diers. 
The Notre Dame Army, Navy and Air Force tri-military drive was held Tuesday from 12-6 
p.m. and Wednesday from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Pasquerilla Center. The event gave cadets, staff, students and area resi­dents the opportunity to donate blood that will be sent to mem­bers of the armed forces serving overseas. 
~~:··· 

"We had 67 pints total," she said. "[We] don't know [yet] the exact number, but at least ten people got turned down because of [issues] like cruises over the break, going to Germany and being deployed." 
Fugate said while there were slightly fewer participants this year, good advertising brought in a variety of people. 
"We had some people from the community, too, because there was an ad for [the drive] in the South Bend Tribune, and we got a lot of phone calls," Fugate said. "There was one mother who wanted to volunteer to come in for the blood drive because she was the mother of a soldier." 
Local television stations WNDU and WSBT also covered the event. 
All donated blood will be sent 
to airmen, sailors, soldiers and 
Marines currently serving over­
seas, Fugate said. Medical per­
sonnel from Fort Knox, Ky. aided 
in the blood drive. 
"They drive all the way up 
here from Fort Knox [just for 
this event]," Fugate said. "The 
Fort Knox people take [the 
blood] back to their hospital to 
process the blood and make sure 
there's no hepatitis, just to make 
sure there's nothing wrong with 
it, and then they send it over­
seas." 

Fugate said any surplus blood 
then returns stateside for use in 
military hospitals. 
Cadet Lt. Col. Rachel Walters, 
the tri-military commander, 
emphasized how important 
blood drives like this are to ser­
vicemen. 

"I don't think the community 
realizes that the only way the 
armed services get blood is 
through the armed service blood 
bank," she said. 
Walters said she was thor­
oughly impressed by the interest 
in the drive and happy with the 
people who volunteered. 
"The support that we got from the community was amazing," she said. "And it wasn't just col­lege students and professors, either. Several times I was walk­·ing around the building and there were several older people wanting to give blood who just 
came in off the street." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 

Journalist Lardner to speak on new-book 
Lecture will address economic inequality 
Special to The Observer 
Economic journalist James Lardner will give a lecture on "U.S. Economic Inequality and Why it Matters" at 7 p.m. Tuesday 
(April 11) in Room 127 of Hayes­Healy Hall. 
Lardner is co-editor with David 
A. Smith of a new 


b 0 k . Lardner
0 "Inequality Matters: The Growing Economic Divide in America and Its Poisonous Consequences." A collection of 21 essays by a variety of contributors, the book argues that increasing inequality in education, 
health care, and economic opportunity imperils the health, stability and durabil­ity of the nation. 
"While the United States remains a spectacularly rich country by any standard," Lardner said, "we are drift­ing toward a Third-World­like distribution of our rich­es. For tens of millions of Americans, the alternative to unemployment has become a dead-end job that doesn't necessarily pay enough to cover basic living expenses." 
Lardner, a former New Yorker staff writer, is the grandson of the sportswriter and humorist Ring Lardner and son of Ring Lardner, Jr., the screenplay writer who was blacklisted with the "Hollywood Ten" during the Army/McCarthy hearings of the 1950s. 
The lecture is sponsored by Notre Dame's department of economics and policy studies and the Higgins Labor Research Center. 
Information Technologies is looking for ... vvho can provide after-hours computer :·tudents vvho live in ND Residence Halls. 
een eight and 20 hours per vveek after ing from the OIT. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 6, 2006 


Faculty 
continued from page I 
modified his position based on 
what people have told him." 
Bederman. who has been an 
advocate for acadmnic frnedom 
and a strong presence at many 
discussions. speeches and 
forums on the topic in rncent 
wonks, said slw was not sur­
prised with .knkins statement. 
"My impression is that he's 
putting us in tlw context of 
what has been a normal aca­
demic procedure for the past 40 
years or so-)that is.! just 
becausn it's performed at a 
University does not imply 
nndorsenwnt of points of view," 
Bederman said. 
Bndnrman said similar lan­
guage is standard among the 
Arneric:an Association of 
University Professors' statn­
rncmts on academic frnndom ­
guidelirws brought up frequent­
ly at Studnnt Senate and Faculty 
Senate meetings in rnennt 
wnc~ks. 
Philosophy professor Ed Manier -who wrotn numnrous )otters to the nditor in The Obsnrvc~r on the topic -said he "wholeheartndly supports" .Jnnkins' closing remarks, but was skeptical that hn did not includn rnrnarks on studnnt academic frnndom. 
Maninr said .Jenkins' state­mont moans students cannot sponsor discussions contrary to Catholic tnaching in the way acadnrnic dnpartmnnts can. 
"Acadnrnie dnpartmnnts arn best situated to decide what events should or should not bn sponsored." .Jenkins said in his statcnnent. "Sponsors have a role in communicating the aca­demic rationaln for controver­sial nvcnts." 
For Maninr. that language left sornn questions unanswered. 
"This [statnmnntl. to me, has a tendency to implieitly label some of these topics as academ­ic, rather than practical." Manier said. "In other words, it's something that academics can be trusted to investigate, but ordinary folks -students, the Catholic laity -don't have the same freedom to this inquiry. 
"We've got freedom in the area under the Provost, but not in the area of the Viee President of Student Affairs? That's an unanswered question." 
Director of Student Activities Brian Coughlin said he never expected Jenkins to articulate a definitive statement on pro­gramming standards for Student Activities, since his original statement was centered on academic department spon­sored events -not events spon­sorod by his office. 
"We don't really see the con­versation that has been going on specifically addressing stu­dent programs or student organization programs," Coughlin said. "We saw it more as an issue affecting academic freedom." 
Coughlin addressed the issue in a recent Campus Life Council meeting where he clarified that his office hasn't had to -and doesn't plan to -apply stricter standards when considering what events or programs it will sponsor. 

"There hasn't been an oe~ur­rence over the last live yeaJ's in Student Activities that we've turned down a program by a recognized student group or organization for content ... we fall back on the Open Spoaker's policy in DuLac," Coughlin said. 
Film, Television and Theater departmont chair Peter Holland agrned with .Jenkins that it is an academic department's respon­sibility to draw a distinction between sponsorship and endorsement. 

"lllis final statement! seems a continuation of where we were rather than a change of policy," llolland said. "The crucial thing is that we keep explaining to people-within the University and outside it that sponsorship is not the same as endorse­ment." 
English department chair Stephen Fredman said he had no qualms or unanswered ques­tions after reading J1mkins' statement. which he called "a trem,;-ndously important ges­ture. 
"I think maybe Jenkins is coming to understand that one of the hallmarks of his presi­dency will be a renewed focus on gender issues and a sense of moving forward in that direc­tion," Fredman said. 
Frndman said Jenkins' leader­ship "seems to be consultative, which is good. lie has consulted with as wide a group as possible before making a decision." 
Across the board, professors agreed with Jenkins' selection of the University's need to elimi­nate violence against women as its "most urgent goal." 
Like Bederman, Dean of the College of Arts and Letters Mark Roche said he was impressed with Jenkins' ability to seek out the University com­munity's opinion on the issue. 

English professor Glenn Hendler said the facilitation of more dialogue is the solution when the University deals with events or programs that might go against Catholic teaching in the future. 
"One thing that was a pleas­ant surprise -instead of taking "The Vagina Monologues" to be the problem, !Jenkins] has held it up to be a model for the way it's been handled this year ... not the play [itself! but the per­formance of it and the things faculty and student have organ­ized around it." 
Bederman said Jenkins' state­ment is neither a compromise, nor a slanted decision in favor of one side, since that could lead to the strict polarization that dominates modern polities in the U.S, she said. 
"What we're supposed to do at a university is to not let one side or another win, but to find truth," she said. "l-Ie's looked for the truth and put a frame­work in place to find the very best way to be a university." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
Nobel Prize vvinner to give Freetnan lecture 
Sharpless will present free inaugural lecture 
Special to The Observer 
K. Barry Sharpless, the co­recipient of the 2001 Nobel Prize in chemistry, will pres­ent the inaugural Jeremiah 
P. Freeman Organic Synthesis Lecture at 4 p.m. today in 127 Nieuwland llall. 
The lecture, which is free and open to the public, hon­ors Freeman, a Notre Dame professor emeritus of chem­istry and biochemistry and 25-year secretary of Organic Synthesis Inc., a publication that provides the organic chemistry community with detailed experimental meth­ods in a standard format for the synthesis of organic compounds. 
Sharpless, W.M. Keek Professor of Chemistry at the Scripps Research Institute in LaJoila, Calif., received the Nobel Prize for his innova­tive contributions to the development of broadly use­ful and commercially viable catalytic oxidation chemistry for the selective production of bioactive ehiral rnoleculns with the proper right or left "handedness." 
Chirality, or handedness, is the structural characteristic of a molecule that makes it impossible to superimpose it on its mirror image. Proteins, DNA and carbohy­drates are all chiral mole­cules. Without the correct handedness, they will not function as the basic mole­cules of life. Many drugs also must be of the correct chi­rality. In some eases, the wrong handedness can be toxic. 
Sharpless' methods allow for the manufacture of safer and more effective antibi­otics, anti-inriammatory drugs, heart medicines and agricultural chemicals. 
The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Ins ti tu te presents 
The 2006 Natural Law Lecture 







ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, April 6, 2006 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Comatose Sharon survives surgery 
JERUSALEM, Israel -Prime Minister Ariel Sharon underwent a successful operation Wednesday to reattach a piece of his skull, a day after the procedure was delayed because of a respiratory infection, hospital officials said. 
Sharon, who has been comatose since suffer­ing a stroke on Jan. 4, was in stable condition after the procedure, Hadassah Hospital said. 
"The surgery that Prime Minister Ariel Sharon was supposed to have yesterday took place today and ended successfully a short while ago," the hospital said in a statement. It said Sharon, 78, was taken back to his room in the intensive care unit. 
Doctors removed the piece of skull to operate on his brain after the stroke. Wednesday's sur­gery was the eighth operation on the prime minister since he fell ill. 
Pakistanis, Mghans must join forces 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -Pakistan and Afghanistan must cooperate to defeat the "common enemy" of the Taliban and Islamic extremists that control the shared border, a senior U.S. official said Wednesday. 
The comments from Richard Boucher, U.S. assistant secretary of state for South and Central Asia, follow weeks of tensions between the two countries -both key allies in Washington's war on terrorism -over mili­tant infiltration along the rugged frontier. 
Boucher, who visited Afghanistan earlier in the week, met Wednesday with Pakistan President Gen. Pervez Musharraf. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Republicans revise immigration bill 
WASHINGTON -Senate Republicans unveiled revised immigration legislation Wednesday night clearing the way for legal status and eventual cit­izenship for many of the estimated 11 million men, women and children living in the United States unlawfully. 
Majority Leader Bill Prist outlined the proposal after efforts at a bipartisan compromise faltered earlier in the day and the Senate teetered between accomplishment and gridlock on the most sweeping immigration bill in two decades. 
Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid pledged to review the GOP proposal overnight to see whether "it could be something we could all sup­port." The prospects appeared uncertain, how­ever, since the provisions appeared similar to what he and other Democrats had earlier spurned. 

High benzene levels found in sodas 
WASHINGTON -Cancer-causing benzene has been found in soft drinks at levels above the limit considered safe for drinking water, the Food and Drug Administration acknowledged Wednesday. 
Even so, the FDA still believes there are no safety concerns about benzene in soft drinks, or sodas, said Laura Tarantino, the agency's direc­tor offood additive safety. 
"What we need to do is understand how ben­zene forms and to ensure the industry is doing everything to avoid those circumstances," she said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Mourning mother sues local store 
SOUTH BEND -A woman whose son was killed in an apparent gang shooting in a con­venience store's parking lot is suing the busi­ness claiming it failed to provide a safe envi­ronment. 
But the store manager said the 18-year-old man and others who were shot had no busi­ness being there. 
Police said two carloads of young men asso­ciated with a gang called the Wild Boyz were parked on a corner of the Marathon Food Center's lot in downtown South Bend shortly after midnight on April 30 when two young men carrying handguns walked up to the cars and opened fire. 
Lorenzo Reed died as a result of the shoot­ings, and four others were wounded. 
CorvtPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WJRE sERVJCEs page 5 
~RAQ 

Insurgents burn soldier's body 
Video shows Al-Qaida supporters dragging the body of a U.S. helicopter pilot 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -The camera panned over bloodstained debris, then showed several men dragging the burning body of a man across a field as they shouted "Allahu Akbar," or "God is Great!" 
As flames leaped from the soldier's tattered uniform, voices could be heard in the background shouting, "Come, come, help me carry it!" 
The body's face was not visible, but the camera zoomed in on what appeared to be his waist­line, which showed a scrap of underwear with the brand name "Hanes." It appeared the man was wearing digital camouflage fatigues, which are worn by 
U.S. troops in Iraq. 
The horrific video was posted Wednesday on the Web by a new al-Qaida­affiliated group that claimed responsibility for downing the AH-64D Apache Longbow last Saturday near Youssifiyah about 12 miles southwest of Baghdad, killing the two pilots. 
A U.S. statement said troops had recovered "all available remains" though "reports of a Web site video suggest that terrorists removed part of a body from the crash site." The military expressed outrage over the release of "such a despicable video for public exposure" and said it had serious doubts that the footage was authentic. 
The flaming wreckage of a helicopter could be seen clearly in the video, includ­ing outlines of the aircraft's blades and jagged pieces of wreckage strewn over a field. 
But the time stamp that shows the minutes and sec­onds do not run sequential­ly, and the scenes appear disjointed. The posting also included bombing scenes filmed elsewhere, indicating the material had been edit­ed as a propaganda pack­age. 
Lt. Col. Barry Johnson, a spokesman for the com­mand, said the wreckage shown on the video "does appear to be an AH-64" but added that other helicopters of that type have been lost. 

"We have serious doubts about the authenticity of this video, a common tactic we see terrorist groups use to keep the stories they want alive in the media," he said. 
But in Alexandria, Va., Ben Venzke, head of IntelCenter, a defense con­tractor which monitors mili­tant statements, said it appeared on first viewing that the tape was authentic. Although the date stamp on the video was Sunday, April 2, a day after the crash, Venzke said the discrepancy could be simply a technical error in the setting. 
"Based on an initial review of the footage, it would seem to indicate the downing of a helicopter and the removal of crew and passengers from the craft," he said. "On an initial review, it does appear to be what it purports to be." 
He said the large amount of background chatter among those on the ground suggested that "it was filmed closely after the downing of the helicopter as opposed to something that was found later and staged." 
It was the second Apache to crash in Iraq this year. 
On Jan 16, an AH-64 Apache conducting a com­bat air patrol went down in Mishada, north of Baghdad, killing two soldiers. At least 12 Apaches have crashed since the beginning of the war three years ago. 
U.S. officials first reported Saturday that an American helicopter had crashed that day about 5:30 p.m. during a cqmbat patrol southwest of the capital and that the status of the crew was unknown. Ordinarily, U.S. officials refrain from report­ing helicopter crashes until the status of the crew is clear to avoid tipping off the insurgents that wounded survivors may be in the area. 

• I
Moussaoui judge to play 9/11 tape 
Associated Press 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. -The cockpit recording from the hijacked jetliner that passengers tried to retake on Sept. 11 will be played in public for the first time -at the sentencing trial of al-Qaida conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui -the judge ruled Wednesday. 
U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema said the jury considering whether to execute Moussaoui could hear the recording from United Airlines Flight 93 and see a transcript of it. 
The flight is best known for one pas­senger's rallying cry to other passen­gers, "Let's roll," which was overheard over a cell phone connection between a passenger and a family member on the ground. 
This cockpit tape was played pri­vately April 18, 2002, for the families of Flight. 9 3 victims, but it has never been played in public. Family mem­bers told reporters afterward they heard "yelling and screaming" and muffied voices that were hard to iden­tify. 
"Listening to the tape confirmed for me that there was a heroic teamwork effort," said Alice Hoglan of Los Gatos, Calif., whose son, Mark Bingham, called from the air before the plane crashed into an empty field --' the only one of four jets hijacked on Sept. 11, 2001, that did not kill anyone on the ground. 
There has been debate over whether the hijackers intended to crash it into the U.S. Capitol or the White House. But last week the Moussaoui jury heard a government­approved summary of statements made during interrogation of the cap­tured mastermind of Sept. 11, Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, who said it was to hit the Capitol. 
Prosecutors asked the judge to order the tape and transcript kept sealed from the general public after it is played in open court, but Brinkema did not decide that question immedi­ately. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 6, 2006 
hers of the "Monologues" pro­duction, engaged in dialogue
Student 

with Jenkins in the months leading up to his decision. She
continued from page 1 

said Jenkins was open in his 
about aeadmnic frnedom. 
"I lwlieve that tlw entire process has provPn that stu­dnnt.s will bo lward on this campus," Shappell said. 
During the two-month debat(~. Shappell. along with formor studPnt body presidont 

DavP Baron, pre­"The fact that the been tapped sPnted .lnnkins president ofthe by Jenkins to 
and othor top serve as a
l lniversity is willing to
mnmhers of tlw member of a administration address this issue newly-created 
with a "spoctrum really says a lot about ad hoc of studnnt views," University
this school and the

Shappell said. committee, 
She said value ofwomen on chaired by .lnnkins' approach campus. Jenkins, to to considoring tlw address gen­implications of der relations 
Madison Liddy

acaderni(·. free­and issues dom -orw that. 2006 director relating to asked for· studont "The Vagina Monologues" v i o I e n c e 
discussions with her and her group. 
"The fact that the president of the University is willing to address this issue really says a lot about this school and the value of women on campus," 
Liddy said. 
Liddy has 
input -showN! 
his n~spoct for tho opinions of tlw student body. 

As slw lwgins lwr torrn as studont body pn~sident, Shappdl hopns to continue to coordinate dialogue lwtween studonts and nwmlwrs of tho administration. 
"The dosing statenwnt opmwd the door for studnnts and studont lmtdnrs to continuo to lw in conversation with administration IPaders," Shappoll said. 
Madison Liddy. the 2006 director of "Tiw Vagina Monologw~s." edwed Shappell's praise, commending Jenkins for listmring to the opinions pre­sented by tlw studnnt body. 
Liddy, along with other rnem­

against 
women. The committee will be a good step towards addressing the exis­tl~nee of sexual violence on campus, Liddy said. 
''I'm very proud to go to a university in which the presi­dent is willing to take this much time to address an issue that is so important to so many," Liddy said. 
Sophomore Nicole Crnieh said she did not follow the debate that elosely but is glad "The Vagina Monologues" will not be prohibited from campus. 
"I think it was good that he took input from a lot of differ­ent people like students and teaehers," Crnieh said. 
Former student body presi­
dent Dave Baron said he was she was "extremely disappoint­pleased with Father Jenkins' ed" by Jenkins' decision to decision to couple productions allow the play to continue in that are not aligned with the future. Catholic teachings with panel "Allowing 'The Vagina discussions to stimulate conver­Monologues' to continue is a sation and thought. scandal to our Catholic charac­
Bar-on described Jenkins as ter and an insult to our status an "introverted leader" and an as an academic university," "outstanding listener," impres­Grossu said. "Pornographic sive qualities that should earn material should not be elevated 
the  Notre  Dame  to an academic  
eomm unity's  status."  
respect, he said. "I've come to respect him even more as I've gotten  "Altogether he has proven himselfa very good listener,  Grossu said she will urge Jenkins to reconsider and  
to  know  him,"  one who seems to  retract  his  
Baron said. "lie is not the type of leader that gets his motivation from  have a very thorough process for making decisions. ,  statement. She said she reeognized that the  
other people.... He  Catholic  
finds his motivation  Church  does  
from himself."  Lizzi Shappell  allow for  con- 
Shappell said she  student body president  sideration  of  

was also impressed by Jenkins after working with him and seeing the level of respect he gave to the student voice. 
"Altogether he has proven himself a very good listener, one who seems to have a very thorough process for making decisions," Shappell said. 
She believes the current dis­cussion on academic freedom will continue and hopes to work with Jenkins and his adminis­tration in furthering the con­versation. 
"I would say it is a move in the right direction." Shappell said. "However, I don't think that all the issues are resolved." 
Certainly not for Arina Grossu, the president of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life. Grossu said Wednesday 
dissenting 
viewpoints, but said "The Vagina Monologues" does not present these different ideas in an intellectual manner. 
"There's a difference between reading Martin Luther ... which is fine in an academic institu­tion," Grossu said. " ... And watching a play that appeals to the passions and is porno­graphic." 
Grossu expressed concern that in the future, non-intellec­tual events that oppose Catholie teachings will be justified by their presentation in an aca­demic setting. 
Joe Piarulli contributed to this article. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 



Senate 
continued from page 1 

Go options and investigating 
the use of Dorner Dollars 
across campus. 

Chair of the University 
Affairs committee, Aly 
Baumgartner, said she wants 
to plan student/alumni 
receptions before pep rallies 
during football weekends 
because "student/ alumni 
relations seem to be in a big 
issue." 

She will also take over the ·catholic Think Tank-whkh 
brought Lou Holtz to campus 
March 31. 

Chris llollon, chair of the 
Oversight committne, said he 
wants to make the Student 
Union constitution easier to 
use. 

"We want to make it more 
simple and clear up the 
inconsistencies in it," llollon 
said. 

Lastly, Destinee Delemos, 
chair of the ad hoe Minority 
Affairs committee, said her 
first goal is make her com­
mittee permanent-an issue 
that has stirred dissent in 
recent days after a resolution 
proposing such a measure 
was rejected in the Senate 
March 29. 

She said she is also in the 
process of putting a large 
photograph of University 
president emeritus Father 
Theodore llesburgh and Dr. 
Martin Luther .King, Jr. in the 
first floor of LaFortune near 
Starbueks. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 


For more information on any course, calll-6886. 

ROIT 63730 MODERN ITALIAN NOVEL I W 3:00-5:30 J. Welle 

Thursday, April 6, 2006 


MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

11,239.55 +35.70
jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,897 154 1,363 2,193,472,780 
Aiill' ;,, ,...·.'''':·· ·,''·,•,·· 1;~5::~i ;; ; ~~~~~M , 
..ail,lllll!llillllillli.!!i\ll!l!ll~iill•lm~~~~~~~·~~~~~•••~~~~~
S&PSOO 1,311.56 +5.63 
NIKKEI(r~J;j:ii!illlllitl~ll••ll,i l:~iil:.li!ll!l!l 
FTSE IOO(London) 6,044.10 +39.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) 
+0.95 +0.40 42.61 INTEL CP (INTC) 
+0.93 +0.18 19.48 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 
+0.20 -0.01 5.12 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 
+0.36 +0.10 27.74 JDS UNIPHASE CP ODSU) 
+0.77 +0.03 3.94 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE -.068 -0.33 4.839 13-WEEK BILL -0.11 -0.05 45.47 30-YEAR BOND -0.41 -0.20 48.93 5-YEARNOTE -0.75 -0.36 47.89 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.84 67.07 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) + 1.90 592.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.28 79.60 
Excha Rates 
YEN 
117.6750 EURO 
0.8138 POUND 
0.5702 CANADIAN$ 1.1624 
IN BRIEF 

Merck found liable in Vioxx lawsuit 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. -A state jury found Merck & Co. liable on Wednesday for one of two former Vioxx users' heart attacks and ordered he receive $4.5 million in damages in a closely­watched trial involving two New Jersey men. 
The jury found the company failed to adequately warn both plaintiffs about the risk factors linking the now-withdrawn painkiller to heart attacks and strokes, but said the drug was only a factor in one of the men's illnesses. 
The panel said the company concealed the risks of the drug for both men, but ruled that only John McDarby, 77, a retired insurance agent from Park Ridge, should receive compensation. 
The verdict came after less than two days of deliberations by the jury of six women and two men. 
The trial was the first dealing with plaintiffs who blamed illnesses on long-term use of the painkiller. 

Nasdaq, S&P at new five-year highs 
NEW YORK-The Nasdaq composite and Standard & Poor's 500 indexes closed at five-year highs Wednesday after a positive report on the economy's service sector pushed stocks modestly higher. A jump in oil prices, however, minimized Wall Street's gains. 
The Institute for Supply Management's service index, an important barometer of that sector's activity, came in at 60.5 for the month, up from 
60.1 in February and better than the 59 reading economists expected. The modest gains were enough to encourage Wall Street about that sec­tor's growth, but did not appear to reignite the market's interest rate worries. 
Yet trading remained tentative as the Energy Department's weekly inventory report showed lower stockpiles of gasoline and distillate fuels, which drove up crude oil futures. A barrel of light crude settled at $67.07, up 8.4 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange -a 20 percent year­over-year rise. 
'The tick up in oil prices hurts, but history has shown that interest rates have a much bigger impact on the stock market than oil," said Jack Ahlin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank. "And looking at the ISM services number, you're seeing the kind of gradual, lazy improve­ment in the economy that's not going to really get rates going." 
THE OBSERVER 









USINESS 
page 7 

Guidant deal gets FTC consent 
Boston Scientific's $27 billion acquisition of rival receives antitrust clearance 
Associated Press 
BOSTON Boston Scientific Corp. said Wednesday it has won antitrust clearance from the Federal Trade Commission's staff for its $27 billion acquisition of former med­ical devices rival Guidant Corp., but is still awaiting fmal approval from the full commission as well as European regulators. 
Also on Wednesday, Guidant said its first-quar­ter sales dropped 6 percent from last year, and it expects to record more than $120 million in charges for the quarter. Guidant has suffered sliding sales because of product recalls and news that the company withheld information about the faulty devices. 
Boston Scientific said it continues to expect its acquisition of Guidant to close around the middle of this month following regula­tory clearances. 
Boston Scientific said it had entered into consent agreements with the FTC staff to resolve antitrust issues. The company did not provide details on the agreements, but Boston Scientific spokesman Paul Donovan said the agree­ments "do not require any material changes to the transaction." 

FTC spokesman Mitch provide a $900 million loan interest for each day after ings about 200,000 pace­Katz declined to comment to Boston Scientific and March 31 that the acquisi­makers. Wednesday. acquire $1.4 billion in tion fails to close. Guidant said U.S. defibril­
European regulators last Boston Scientific stock. Meanwhile, Guidant said lator sales for the quarter week pushed back the Shareholders of Natick­Wednesday its unaudited were $208 million, down 16 deadline they set for com­based Boston Scientific and first-quarter revenue fell 6 percent from the first quar­pleting their review until Indianapolis-based Guidant percent to $894 million ter in 2005. Still, that figure April 18, although a deci­overwhelmingly approved compared with the same represented a 13 percent sion could come sooner. their companies' transac­three-month period last increase from the fourth 
To satisfy concerns that tion last Friday. year. But the company said quarter. the combined company Boston Scientific trumped it was gradually recovering Guidant also said first­could command too great a Johnson & Johnson more from last year's damaging quarter earnings will be share of the market for than two months ago in a recalls. hurt by a $15 million write­heart stents, Boston bidding war to buy Guidant Guidant issued safety off charge from inventory of Scientific agreed before the and its portfolio of stents, warnings or recalled 88,000 its Xience stent; a $67 mil­regulatory reviews to sell a defibrillators, pacemakers defibrillators, which are lion to $77 million charge piece of Guidant's business, and other medical devices. used to sense irregular for accelerated vesting of including its drug-coated In outbidding J&J, Boston heartbeats and shock the restricted stock; and a $40 stents, to a third company. Scientific agreed to pay heart back to normal million research and devel­Abbott Laboratories Inc. Guidant shareholders near­rhythm, since June. The opment charge related to a will pay $4.1 billion in cash, ly $4.5 million a day in company also issued warn-payment to AFx Inc. 

Wal Mart to cut advertising budget 
son. It placed a full-page color ad newspaper advertising "didn't give
Associated Press for its electronics department in us a return," but didn't offer 336 smaller papers in Missouri and specifics about the tests. CHICAGO-Wal-Mart Stores Inc. Oklahoma between Nov. 30 and Buffington, past president of the has decided against buying more Dec. 6. NNA and co-publisher of advertisements in local newspa­"Our test showed that it did MainStreet Newspapers Inc. in pers after a test in two states increase product sales but our Jefferson, Ga., said not all publish­showed the expense is not justified, margins are so thin that we didn't ers would agree that a company the world's largest retailer said even come close to offsetting the could reach a decision on costs Wednesday. cost of the ads," Wal-Mart spokes­versus benefits after a single ad. Wal-Mart's test run in woman Mona Williams told The "Our view is that a one-time test Midwestern papers had been close­Associated Press Wednesday. is probably not a true way to eval­ly watched by publishers who com­Mike Buffington, a Georgia pub­uate community newspapers. In plained publicly last year that Wal­lisher who has been the point man fact we understand they had quite Mart sought free publicity from in talks with Wal-Mart by the a bump in sales. But the advertis­their newspapers but refused to National Newspaper Association, ing itself, the full-page color ads, buy ads -all while driving out said Wal-Mart told him last week were expensive and they were local businesses that had been the company's return wasn't high advertising loss-leader type items," mainstays. enough. At the Newspaper he said. In a bid to improve community Association of America meeting at Wal-Mart declined to say how relations, Wal-Mart agreed to run Chicago on Tuesday, Wal-Mart much it paid for ads used in the a test in the holiday shopping sea-Chief Executive Lee Scott said tests. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, April 6, 2006 
noxt year, he said the change is unfair to students who do use

Phones 
their phonos. "I think it's a shame that the

continued from page 1 
University is going to !remove 

dorm phones] because I know dnnts for a ltlll. Additionally, stu­that is one way a lot of students dents who purchasn tlw service communicate with other stu­will have to provide tlwir own dents on campus," he said. "I phorw sd. don't have all my friends' num­
Sophomore Sarah Hung<1r uses bers in my cell phone, but it is lwr room phonn oncP a wonk at easy to look up their dorm phone 
most.  As  a  I if I neod to call  
rPstllt. slw said  them!."  
shn would prob­ "! think it's a shame  Shoup  said  
ably not pay ll1r t.tw phonn snrv­ien. Currnntly, res­ that the University is going to /remove dorm phones/ because I  some house phones will be placed in the hallways of resi­ 
idence halls pro­vidn ea.c~h room with onn phone and on-campus  know that is one way a lot ofstudents communicate with  dence halls for students who do not have cell phones or who  
calls  can  lw  other students on  do not want to  
rnadn for frne. llownvnr. an $S4  campus.  pay for the new phone service.  
phonn fop  pnr  Students will be  
scmwstnr  is  Brendan Gorman  able  to  make  
worked into tuition costs.  sophomore  local calls on these phones in  
Tho OITice of  addition long-dis­ 

Studnnt Accounts Web site said tance calls, if thoy have pre-paid tho cost of thn optional phone calling cards. These phones will sorvico would bn $161 pnr not be available to receive calls. snn.wstor for tho 2006-07 aca­An e-mail will be sent out to dnrnk year -a figum that near­students to ask them whether ly douhlns thn cost of the currnnt they would like to purchase the phone service. phone service for their room, 
Sophomore Brendan (;orman Shoup said. said he uses his room phone about twice a wonk. While he Contact Becky Hogan at will liknly not pay for tho service rhogan2@nd.edu 

Condos 
continued from page 1 
20. Since then, current and future residents have been notified of the name switch in order to avoid confusion. 
New signage will be posted "within the next two weeks," she said. 
"We just felt that we liked [the name] Stadium Club because Notre Dame is all about the stadium," Miller said. "College Park never had a logo so there wasn't anything to identify it with." 
College Park has never been known by another name, she said. 
Miller said Heal Estate Management Corporation ­the largest for-fee property management company in northern Indiana and south­west Michigan -took over the housing complex in March as the result of an "everyday busi­ness operation." The 20-year­old company manages approxi­mately 1,000 housing units throughout South Bend, Plymouth, Logansport, Argos and Milford, Ind. 
The shift in management has resulted in a series of "upgrades," ineluding both restoration projects and mana­gerial changes, Miller said. 
"The first upgrade is on-site management -that's a good thing for an apartment com­plex," she said. "You'll notice that all other large apartment complexes in the area have them." 


Miller said the addition of on­site management -not the new name -would be the "biggest change" at the com­plex. And residents have already gotten used to these modifications. 
''I've met a few tenants and they're very happy that there's on-site management and a dif­ferent management company," she said. "I think they are already seeing positive changes at the property. When you take over management, the changes don't happen right away -we make small changes as we go." 
The apartment complex's for­mer management company ­Paramount Management ­clashed with Notre Dame stu­dents last year when a winter storm severely damaged eight housing units. 
A company reprnsentative said the failure of studnnts to heat their apartments during winter break caused ruptured pipes, but students contended they were wrongly blamed for the damage. In a Jan. 28 arti­cle, The Observer reported three students pursued a Jaw­suit against Paramount in response to the incident. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 

IRAQ 
Officials say parliament may have to sort out standoff 
Hopes for new unity government deadlocks 
Associated Press 
BAGIIDAD -Prime Minister Ibrahim ai-Jaafari said in an interview with a British newspa­per published Wednesday that he was refusing to abandon his bid for a second term to break the dCJadlock over a new govern­ment, and somn Iraqi leaders said parliament may have to decide his future. 
llowevor, Shiite officials said tlwy am reluctant to dump the issue on parliament until there is a eomprnhnnsive deal among all ethnic-and religious-based par­tins, ineluding an agrnement on who will be the new president. 
That indicated little or no progress has been made in rnsolving the standoff over the nnw government since Secrntary of State Condoleezza Hice and British ForPign Secretary Jack Straw f'lew to Baghdad last weekend and insisted that Iraqis agrnn on a new lnadership quick­ly. 
U.S. oflieials believe a broad­based government of Shiites, Sunni Arabs and Kurds oll'ers the only hope for reversing Iraq's slide into anarchy. Without such a government, the Americans cannot begin withdrawing their troops. 
Talks on a new unity govern-ment stalled after Sunni Arab and Kurdish officials said they would not accept al-Jaafari, who won the nomination of the domi­nant Shiite bloc in balloting among Shiite lawmakers in February. 


AI-Jaafari told The Guardian newspaper that he was rejecting calls to give up the nomination of his Shiite bloc "to protect democ­racy in Iraq." 
"There is a decision that was reached by a democratic mecha­nism and I stand with it," he said. "We have to respect our Iraqi people." 
AI-Jaafari added that the Iraqi people "will react if they see the rules of democracy being dis­obeyed. Everyone should stick to democratic mechanisms no mat­ter whether they disagree with the person." 

More than 1,000 supporters of al-Jaafari rallied Wednesday in the Shiite holy city of Karbala, and speakers urged an end to "U.S. interference" in Iraqi poli­tics. 
During an interview Tuesday with the British Broadcasting Corp., Vice President Adil Abdul­Mahdi said he met with al­Jaafari the day before and urged him to give up the nomination to break the logjam. But Abdul­Mahdi said al-Jaafari refused, insisting he wanted to take his case to parliament, which must approve the new prime minister and his Cabinet by a majority presents his Cabinet to parlia­ment for approval by a majority of all 275 members. 

Under the constitution, howev­er, parliament must first elect a new president and two vice pres­idents by a two-thirds vote. With Talabani's term also ending, it is unclear whether he would have the authority to appoint a prime minister, and the Shiites could block his re-election. 
Because of those legal uncer­tainties, several Shiite officials said they were reluctant to take the issue to parliament. One described the current standoff as a crisis and said "nobody sees a way out." They all spoke on con­dition of anonymity due to the sensitivity of the issue. 



vote. 
President Jalal Talabani, a Kurd and an al-Jaafari opponent, referred to the parliamentary option in an interview published Wednesday by the Saudi daily AI Madina. 
"Consultations are taking place quickly," Talabani said. "We hope they will not take much longer than this, and if the (Shiites) stick by their stand on nominating Ibrahim al-Jaafari, then we will resort to parliament." 
However, it was unclear how parliament could legally resolve the standoff. The constitution states that the president must nominate the candidate of the largest bloc -the Shiites. The prime minister-designate then 


APRIL 8TH 2006 FROM 2PM 4PM DEBARTOLO 335 

Pick up an applicat-ion in DeBart-olo Hall Clust-er and bring it­wit-h you on Sat-urday. See you t-here! 
Thursday, April 6, 2006 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
SouTH KoREA 
U.S. in1patient on nuclear in1passe 
Top American envoy expresses desire for international negotiations 
Associated Press 
SEOUL-The top U.S. envoy in South Korea said Wednesday that Washington was "running out of patience" with the impasse over North Korea's nuclear program. 
The comments by U.S. Ambassador to South Korea Alexander Vershbow came as Seoul's chief official for North Korean relations urged the communist state to end its boy­cott of international talks on the issue. 
North Korea has refused to resume nuclear disarmament talks with the United States, China, Japan, Russia and South Korea, demanding that Washington first lift financial restrictions on a Macau bank and North Korean companies accused of involvement in the North's alleged currency coun­terfeiting and other illicit activi­
ties~ 
The United States has rebuffed the North's demand, saying the sanctions are a sepa­rate issue from the nuclear talks. 
"All U.S. government officials hope this problem will be resolved through negotiation," Vershbow said during an online chat Wednesday with South Koreans. "At the same time, it's also true that many officials are running out of patience." 
The comments were con­
tained in a Korean-language transcript of the chat posted on a Web page maintained by the embassy but separate from its official Web site. 
South Korean Unific.ation Minister Lee Jong-seok said the North's policy of linking its return to the negotiating table to the financial dispute was ill­advised and would only prompt Washington to take a harder line. 
"I see there is a considerable problem in North Korea's judg­ment," Lee told a unification forum, according to his min­istry. "It has to give serious thought to whether that's a wise decision." 
The United States and the North met in Beijing in January and again in New York in March, but no breakthrough was achieved. 
Another meeting between the two nations could occur next week when officials from the six countries assemble in Japan at a privately sponsored security conference. The participants reportedly include the top U.S. and North Korean nuclear negotiators. 
South Korea has confirmed its nuclear envoy will attend. 
"If North Korea shows a posi­tive attitude after coming back to the six-party talks, it will give rise to some room for other countries to tell the U.S." not to push the North too hard, said Lee, the unification minister. 
"If it sticks to what it's doing now, however . . . it would undermine pro-dialogue offi­cials in the U.S." 
Lee also said he does not believe the United States has shifted its North Korea policy toward seeking the communist regime's overthrow. 
North Korea has claimed that the United States maintains a hostile policy toward it that is reflected in the financial restrictions. The United States has said repeatedly it has no intention of attacking the North. 
In other diplomatic efforts, South Korean Foreign Minister Ban Ki-moon is visiting Moscow to discuss the nuclear issue during a 10-day European trip beginning Thursday. 
Meanwhile, the North's main Rodong Sinmun newspaper accused the South on Wednesday of arming itself with nuclear weapons in cooperation with the United States and vowed to "harden its resolution to further strengthen its self­defensive nuclear activities." 
In September, North Korea agreed in principle to give up its nuclear program in exchange for aid and security assurances. Talks on imple­menting the agreement stum­bled as North Korea made demands that included calling for the lifting of U.S. financial restrictions. 


IRELAND 
Spy's tnurder could complicate nelV deal 
Power-sharing plan will still go forward 
Associated Press 
DUBLIN -The assassina­tion of a Sinn Fein official who had admitted spying for the British will make a new power-sharing deal in Northern Ireland more diffi­cult, Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern told lawmakers Wednesday. 
Despite this, Ahern said he and British Prime Minister Tony Blair would reveal a long-awaited new plan Thursday in Armagh, Northern Ireland, that aims to forge a Catholic-Protestant administration led by leaders of Sinn Fein, the IRA-linked party, and their bitter Protestant rivals from the Democratic Unionist Party. 
"We have made it clear that the two governments will not be deterred from efforts to bring politics center stage in Northern Ireland," Ahern said. "So Tony Blair and I will travel to Armagh tomorrow and get on with it." 
Ahern said Tuesday's killing of Denis Donaldson in north­west Ireland had heightened Protestant opposition to shar­ing power with Sinn Fein. He said the killing "certainly makes it more difficult." 
Donaldson, 55, had been liv­ing alone at his family's vaca­tion home since December, when he went on national Irish television to confess he had been a British agent inside Sinn Fein for decades. The IRA traditionally killed anybody suspected of spying for the British, but the outlawed group last year declared it had renounced violence and dis­armed _ and on Tuesday denied killing Donaldson. 
The police officer leading the investigation, Chief Superintendent Terry McGinn, said Donaldson "died from shotgun blasts to the body" and that the front door had been broken down. 
McGinn said detectives were combing a two-mile perimeter around the property and had already found objects of poten­tial evidence, which she declined to specify. 
Earlier, Ahern told lawmak­ers that Donaldson appeared to have been hit twice by shot­gun blasts at close range. The attack, he said, severed Donaldson's right hand. 
He said Donaldson's betrayal of comrades in Sinn Fein and the IRA meant he had many enemies. "But whoever was responsible for this evil deed was certainly no friend of the peace process," he said. 
In London, Blair called the killing "a serious, appalling, barbaric act." He said it would have "serious implications" if police determined that IRA members were responsible, and emphasized that Sinn Fein "has to be clean of all this." But he said delaying Thursday's announcement would only reward the killers. 
"The timing of this (killing) does suggest that whoever did this wants to derail the peace process. Our response should be to deny them what they want," Blair said. 
Blair added that dissident IRA hard-liners opposed to Sinn Fein's political direction might have killed Donaldson specifically to sabotage the new diplomatic effort. "Sometimes these things can be perpetrated by people in disagreement with their lead­ership," he said. 
Sinn Fein deputy leader Martin McGuinness dismissed the idea that the IRA had sanctioned the hit on Donaldson. He argued that the IRA had taken difficult, land­mark decisions last year to disarm and renounce "armed struggle" in hopes of promot­ing power-sharing. 
"It's hardly likely the IRA would take these enormous initiatives and then move on to do something stupid like attack Denis Donaldson," McGuinness said. 
Attention Arts & Letters Students In the upcoming issue ofthe 
Arts & Letters Gazette 
Answer the Sphinx's questions correctly and 

winaniPQDf 

Lookfor your copy ofthe Gazette in your mailbox or pick one upfrom the Dean's office in 104 O'Shau hness . 
page 10 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April 6, 2006 
THAILAND 





Colleague steps in as Pritne Minister leaves 
Thaksin will not serve amidst nzany protests 
Associated Press 
BANGKOK -Outgoing Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra moved quiekly Wednesday to put the burdens of office behind him, deaning out his desk and appointing a Cabinet colleague to servn as a caretaker leader until a nnw government is formed. 
Thaksin announced Tuesday night that he would not serve as prime minister following a weekend election in which his party got most of the votns but millions abstained from casting ballots as part of a eontinuing protest of the Thai IPader. who has been accused of corruption and abuse of powPr. 
Thaksin told supporters out­side headquarters of his ruling Thai Bak Thai party that he would not stay on in a caretaker role but lnt Deputy Prime Minister Chitchai Wannasathit b1H:onw acting prime minister. 
"I havn decided that if I have to rest to let the country move forward, I want to rest now. I have appointed Chitchai to do my work from now on. I need to rnst," Thaksin said. lin made it clear that he was not formally resigning. but just taking a leave of olliee. 
Since Chitehai is not a member of Parliament, he is legally unabln to hold on to the top job when the body mm~ts to name Thaksin 's successor. 
Chitehai, 59, who oversees seeurity all"airs, is a dose associ­ate of Thaksin. The two studied togNher in the United States and both joined the national police force, where Chitchai rose to senior positions. 
After eollecting his belongings from his oflice at Government House, Thaksin went to party IH~ad quarters, when~ a few thousand supporters mobbed and cheered him. several in ll~ars. 
"I will rmnmnber on the day that I die that tlw people came out to show their support," a vis­ibly moved Thaksin told the crowd, which chanted back: "We love Thaksin!" 
The business community reg­istered its rHiief at his departure, with the Stock Exchange of Thailand index rising 3.1 per­cent to 772.93, a two-year high, in extremely heavy trading. 
Thaksin, a telecommunica­tions magnate who first swept to power in a landslide in 2001, said he would not serve again after a meeting Tuesday with Thailand's revered King Bhumibol Adulyadej. It is not clear what role the monarch played in his decision. 
"It's not that I'm not willing to fight, but when I fight, the nation loses," Thaksin said after naming Chitchai to take over his duties. "I don't need to see bloodshed among Thais -Thai blood must not paint the land of Thailand." 
Thaksin's foes, who staged almost daily large demonstra­tions in Bangkok prior to the election, remain wary of his intentions, 
A previously scheduled anti­Thaksin rally set for the capital on Friday would go ahead. said Pipob Thongchai of the People's Alliance for Democracy, the protests' organizers. 
Another protest leader, Suriyasai Katasila, said the rally would be marked by an "announcement of victory." 
"The crisis has been lessened to an extent but it has yet to truly bring reconciliation and unity in thn country," he said. 
Suriyasai said the next step will be to destroy the "Thaksin regime." Thaksin's critics want to jettison his policies promoting privatization, free trade agree­ments and CEO-style adminis­tration. 
Complete results from Sunday's election were still not available, but Thaksin had said his party won 57 percent of the popular vote and virtually all of the 500 seats in Parliament. About 37 percent marked absent on the ballot, according to unof­ficial results. 
On Campus Graduation Weekend Special May 18-21 
Need a place for your family to stay? Try the Sacred Heart Parish Center [Building 1185 on your campus maps.] 
We set a $100.00 per person donation for the weekend. 
"COME EARLY [Thursday] STAY LATE [Monday]" same low price 
For reservations please call: Paul Eddy at 574-631-7512 or Mary Fonferko at 574-631-9436 
IRAN 


'Top secret' tnissle test successful 
Safavi advises United States against any military strike on Iran 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN Iran said Wednesday it has successfully test-fired a "top secret" mis­sile, the third in a week, state­run television reported. 
The report called the missile an "ultra-horizon" weapon and said it could be fired from all military helicopters and jet fighters. 
The tests came amid war games being held since Friday by the. elite Revolutionary Guards in the Persian Gulf and the Arabian Sea at a time of increased tension with the United States over Tehran's nuclear program. 
Iranian television called it a "turning point" in its missile tests but gave no other details. 
At the same time, the head of the Hevolutionary Guards, Gen. Yahya Rahim Safavi, said the United States must recog­nize Iran as a "big, regional power." 
Speaking on state television, Safavi said Iran could use the Straits of Hormuz to apply pressure on foreign powers. About two-fifths of the world's oil supplies pass through the 34-mile-wide entrance to the Gulf. 
'The Straits of Hormuz are a point of control and economic pressure on the energy trans­fer route for those foreign powers that might want to undermine regional security," Safavi said. 

He reiterated that Iran could defend itself against any inva­sion and added: "I advise Americans not to move toward a military strike against Iran." 
On Tuesday, Safavi called for foreign forces to leave the region. The U.S. 5th Fleet is based in Bahrain. 
That same day, Iran tested a new surface-to-sea radar­avoiding missile equipped with remote-control and searching systems, state TV reported. It said the new missile, called Kowsar, was a medium-range weapon that Iran could mass­produce. 
It also said the Kowsar's guidance system could not be scrambled, and it had been designed to sink ships. 
On Friday, Iran tested the Fajr-3, a missile that it said can avoid radar and hit sever­al targets simultaneously using multiple warheads. Iran also has tested what it calls two new torpedoes. 
One of the torpedoes, unveiled Monday, was tested in the Straits of Hormuz. That seemed to be a clear warning to the United States that Iran believes it has the capability to disable oil tankers moving through the Gulf. 
The Revolutionary Guards have been holding their maneuvers -code-named the 
"Great Prophet" -since Friday. 
Some military analysts in Moscow said it appears the high-speed torpedoes likely were Russian-built weapons that may have been acquired from China or Kyrgyzstan. 
Others have questioned their capabilities of evading advanced radar systems such as those in Israel. 
The United States said Monday that while Iran may have made "some strides" in its military, it likely is exagger­ating its capabilities. 
"We know that the Iranians are always trying to improve their weapons system by both foreign and indigenous meas­ures," Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman said. "It's pos­sible that they arc increasing their capability and making strides in radar-absorbing materials and technology." 
But "the Iranians have also been known to boast and exag­gerate their statements about greater technical and tactical capabilities," he said. 
Safavi on Wednesday reject­ed the U.S. claims that Iran had exaggerated its capabili­ties. 
"They tried to say what is 

· related to our equipment was just a bluiT. But we announce that the advanced equipment were based on a real and domestic industry," he said. 

Thursday, April 6, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 

Govertnent releases tips to fight avian flu 
165 degrees will kill pathogens in poultry 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Preparing for the arrival of bird flu, the government on Wednesday gave advice for making chicken safe to eat: Cook it to 165 degrees. 
While the government has always offered "doneness" advice, it has never before declared what it takes to kill viruses and bacteria that may lurk in poultry. 
"It's not in response directly to avian influenza, or bird flu, but so many people right now are concerned about bird flu and will poultry bn safe to eat," said Hichard Haymond, the depart­ment's undersncrntary for food safety. 
"It's a wonderful time to edu­cate everybody out there that there's lots of reasons to handle poultry properly and cook it to the right temperature," Haymond said in an interview with The Associated Press. 
The government says the deadly strain of bird flu spread­ing throughout Asia, Africa and Europe is likely to arrive this year in the United States. 
Human cases of bird flu have been rare, but authorities worry the virus could mutate into a form that would spread easily among people and cause a glob­al epidemic. 
The cooking recommendation came from a scientific advisory panel that said raw poultry should be cooked to an internal temperature of at least 165 degrees. 
The department's "Is it Done Yet?" campaign provides a range of temperatures, includ­ing 170 degrees for chicken breasts and 180 degrees for whole birds. 
Haymond said that's too con­fusing and from now on, the department will be sticking with a minimum of 165 degrees for all poultry. 
"That's based on the best sci­ence available -165 degrees is more than adequate to kill all food pathogens found in poultry, including avian influenza," he said. 
The department also strongly recommends that people use food thermometers and follow basic rules for kitchen safety: wash hands often, keep raw poultry and meat separate from cooked food and refrigerate or freeze food right away. 

Stolen WWII paintings returned 
90-year-old woman recovers $300 million offamily's possessions 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -For years, Maria Altmann hung a framed poster of one of world's most recognizable paintings in her living room. 
It's an oil and gold-encrust­ed portrait of her aunt, Adele Bloch-Bauer, by Gustav Klimt, who is best known for his ornate painting, "The Kiss." 
The portrait of Bloch-Bauer serves as a reminder of Altmann's childhood in Austria before the Nazis took over nearly 70 years ago and ripped it off the wall as part of a campaign to loot wealthy Jewish families. 
Altmann, now 90, wel­comed the original portrait back to her family on Tuesday along with four other Klimt paintings that were unveiled in a ceremony at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. The works, including another colorful portrait of Bloch-Bauer and three landscapes, will be on view until June 30. 
"To see them here is a dream come true," Altmann said with a smile as she sat in an exhibit room surround­ed by the paintings. "Los 

April 7 and 8, 2006 
7:30 PM, WASHINGTON HALL 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Tickets ($5-1 OJ available at LaFortune Box Office or by phone at (514) 631-8128 

Angeles has been my home­her aunt and uncle. She said town for so long, so to have she didn't think much about them here is beyond words. the material loss at the time, I'm going to come here very because her husband was often and bring friends to see detained in the Dachau con­them." centration camp. The couple 
Their arrival capped eventually escaped to safety Altmann's seven-year legal and resettled in Los Angeles battle to recover her family's in 1942, where she ran a possession, estimated to be clothing boutique. worth $300 million. Meanwhile, Gallery 
In Vienna, an Austrian Belvedere was made the for­advisory panel mal owner of the handling claims paintings. for paintings, "/was very angry Altmann sculptures and believed for
with what 
other items many years that
happened. But now
looted by the little could be Nazis has rec­that we have done to recover ommended that resolved it, I try to the paintings, 6,292 artworks but her hopes
see the good side of
be returned to were revived in
it.,
their original 1998 when a owners, culture new Austrian minister law required
Maria Altmann 
Elisabeth museums to 
owner of paintings 
Gehrer said return valuable 
Wednesday. 

Only about a dozen of the requests received through March 31 have been rejected, Gehrer said, adding that the government usually follows the panel's recommenda­tions. 
Details on most of the art­works and their claimants were not released, but Gehrer said new investiga­tions have been launched in an attempt to clear up murky circumstances surrounding two of the rejected requests. Those cases involve a pair of figurines by Belgian symbol­ist sculptor George Minne and "Summer Evening at the Beach," a painting by Norwegian artist Edvard Munch. 
The return of the Minne fig­urines was requested by the Altmann family. Marina Mahler, a granddaughter of the late composer Gustav Mahler, is seeking custody of the Munch. The Minne fig­urines and the Munch paint­ing are in the possession of Gallery Belvedere. 
Gehrer said a Web site would be set up by the end of the year to help owners track down works they claim were confiscated by the Nazi regime. 
Altmann was a 21-year-old newlywed when she watched the Nazis seize power in 1938 and then steal valu­ables from her family, includ­ing her wedding gifts and the paintings that belonged to 
art objects loot­ed by the Nazis. 
With the help of attorney E. Randol Schoenberg, Altmann sued for rightful ownership of the paintings. Attorneys for Austria argued that Altmann's aunt, who died in 1925, had specified that they be donated to the govern­ment gallery. 
The case worked its way to the U.S. Supreme Court, which ruled in 2004 that Altmann could sue the Austrian government. The two sides began mediation and Austrian authorities agreed in January to return the paintings after an arbi­tration court ruled they must be returned to her. 
Altmann said she has no ill feelings toward Austria and praised members of the arbi­tration court for their "courage and honesty" in vot­ing unanimously in her favor. 
"I was very angry with what happened. But now that we have resolved it, I try to see the good side of it," she said. 
Displaying her sharp mem­ory, Altmann giggled when asked about the poster that will remain in her living room. 
"It was given to me from what they called a boyfriend then, not what they call a boyfriend now," she said. "He didn't even give me a kiss, but my mother was furious when she found out about 
h. .. 
liD. 


5 bucks cash gets you 5 eclectic concerts in 5 groovy downtown businesses. 
Friday April 7 7 to 9:30pm 
Start at the Spurious Fugitive gallery at 114 W. Colfax (right around the corner from McCormick's) 
Info: hip_pocket_southbend@yahoo.com 
------~-------------­
THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, April 6, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
Familiar promises 
PO. !~ox n9, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddi~ Hanna Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala Ass·I: MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Amanda Michaels Mary Kate Malone VmwPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EI>ITOR: K~n Fowler ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Medun 1'110'10 EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAI'IIlCS EDITOR: Graham Ebctsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown All DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEH ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althofr SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Alejandro G~rbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scenc.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
srnc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 

At the age of18 Samuel Rayburn told his father he wanted to go to college. His father said that he could not afford to send him, to which Rayburn replied that he was not asking for money, only for the permis­sion to go. His father gave it. 
Later, as he was about to climb aboard his train to depart, his li.tther gave him some­thing else. I lis father took his hand and prossed into it twenty­five dollars (this was in 1900; twenty-five dol­lars was a substantial sum). A<i Rayburn boarded the train his father's parting words worn "Sam, be a man." 
Hayburn arrived at East Texas Normal College (now part ofTexas A&M University) carrying his clothes tied togeth­er with rope because he could not afford a suitcase. l-Ie worked at several part time jobs while at college, before graduating in 1903. Three years later he was elected to the Texas House of Representatives, and then to the United States House of Representatives six years after that. He was reelected 24 times, eventually becom­ing the longest serving Speaker of the House, and was an effective politician widely admired as a man ofintegrity and principle. 
Rayburn never discovered how his father had managed to save the money, but he never forgot the generosity of his gift or the words that accompanied it. He told the story for the rest of his life. 
It took me a long time to realize quite how much I owe to my parents. Now I don't know how to express my gratitude. How do you say 'Thanks for everytlllng" when "everytlllng" really does mean everythillg? 
When I was younger I took their love too much for granted, but the fact that I could take it for granted is one of the things I am now so grateful for, now that it has finally dawned on me quite how many people 

Peter 
Wicks 
Englishman 
Abroad 

were in no position to do the same. 
Journalists and cultural commentators are altogether too fond of the language of crisis (part of the rhetorical inflation by which nothing that has not been declared an emergency seems to warrant our atten­tion), but in talking about the crisis of man­hood I think the term is fully justified. There really is a crisis of manhood and the unprecedented number of children who are growing up without fathers is both a causA and a consequence of this fact. 
Fatherlessness itself is not new. In the Old Testament the fatherless are grouped with the widows because their vulnerabili­ty merits special care. One of the most moving passages of the Iliad comes when Andromache laments the death of her hus­band Hector and asks how their child can grow up to manhood now that his father has been slain. 
What has never happened before on anything approaching the current scale is children growing up without fathers not because their fathers have died, but because they have left. 
Unsurprisingly the dissolution of the fami­ly is a dominant theme in modern litera­ture, so dominant it's easy to forget how rapidly this has happened. That's one of the reasons to read old books; it helps us to rec­ognize what is modern in modern books. 
The unnamed narrator of Chuck Palahniuk's "Fight Club" describes himself as "a thirty-year-old boy" (Samuel Hayburn's father didn't mean "man" in contrast to "woman;" he meant it in con­trast to "boy"). After rejecting as empty his earlier life of aimless consumerism, he founds a club in which men beat each other into submission. The club gradually transforms into a violent terrorist move­ment dedicated to the destruction of civi­lization. As he loses control the narrator returns obsessively to thoughts of the father he hardly knew. He reflects that "What you see at Fight Club is a generation of men raised by women," a line that has, unsurprisingly, earned its author many angry rebukes. But strip away the satiric hyperbole and Palahniuk seems to be mak­ing a serious point about the way in which, in the absence of a credible model of adult manliness, increasing numbers of men will take refuge in an aggressive and destruc­tive hyper-masculinity that prizes the very qualities which traditional manliness kept in check. 
The absence of a father from whom a credible model of adult male behavior can be learned is just as damaging to girls. One of the most depressing pieces of testimony from those who work in pregnancy centers is how many young womenget pregnant without any serious expectation that the father will play a role in the ehild's life. Frequently these women grnw up in homes in whieh their father or a snries of surro­gate lathers were an intnrmittnnt presnnee at best. 
The sexual revolution has changed American life more profoundly than the Ameriean Hevolution. Estimations of the gains and losses vary wildly. but one thing is increasingly dear; the highest priee is being paid by those least able to afford it. 
It's hard to even talk about the ehanges that have so rapidly overtaken the family. "Family values" was the first term for which scare quotes became part of the offi­cial spelling, and it is true that the term is frequently abused. But we need to learn to talk about what is happening to the family for the very reason that makes it so diffi­cult to do so; beeause this is the point at whieh our concern for the next generation ("Think of the ehildren!") collides with a culture addicted to choice and autonomy. We need to talk about this because it is beeoming apparent that this is not a cul­ture which is conducive to producing peo­ple who will limit their autonomy by mak­ing and keeping familiar promises like "Until death do us part." 
Peter ltlcks is a graduate student in the Philosophy Department. He has no plans to run for Congress. Peter can be contacted at pwicks@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the studt,nts of the Uniwrsiry of Notre Dame du LK and Saint Mary's EDITORIAL CARTOON Colk·ge. Editorial content, including advertisenwnts, is nor governed by policie.~ ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refiJSe advertisements based on content. 
The nt'WS is reportt·d as accurately and objectively as pos.<ible. Unsigned t•dirorials r~present the opinion of the rnajoriry of the Editor in ChieL Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commemaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinion.' through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Ediwr must be signed and must include contacr information. 
Qrmtions regarding Obmwrpolities should be directed(() Editor in ChiefMike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Ihe Ohkrver (USPS ')99 1-4000) I$ publillbcJ MvoJ;~y thmu"h Ftid"y c;u;cpt during ~JIIII ~~~~J vautiun pcrfmla. An1b.c..riptmt1 fo The (lh.crvcr i~ $101} Fur unc;&4'.ltdr:sm' ynr; $'\~ fur unc 'l('lnt"Sicr, 
'11tt Obr;cm:r is puhli~hcd at: POSTMASTER 024 Sourh Dining ~I all Send ;Wdreu cor~ioll!l (a: Null'e Dame, IN 46,"S6.(J779 The Oboer= Pcriodiul pt.l't~gt f"~Jid at NQtrc Dame P.O.Bm.m :md JdditUmal m"iling uffices. 02-fl Snuth Dining Hall 
Nonl' DIDlc, IN 465~6-0779 

The Oho.ctver b .a mt-mht-1 uftht-Aasuda1~ Ptdl. All teproduL'tion rightJ ,ue u.:~ervcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Katie Perry Kate Gales Joe Piarulli Tim Dougherty 
Marcella Berrios Tim Kaiser What do you think of the Viewpoint Scene 
academic advising system? 
Alyssa Tae Andrews Brauweiler Graphics Vote by today at 5 p.m. at Graham Ebetsch 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'"! have always been among those 
ISub 't aLetterI 
who believed that the greatest freedom ofspeech was the greatest safety, 
It-~,t'h,4\ Ef,·'d;.l.,t~:~·o·r· r: lt,,•,. :.:.. .. because ifa man is a fool, the best thing to do is encourage him to
ll ,U ·.·...t ..'....,,,,, .. ' .. ,/ ,.'.. Q .•. I 
advertise the fact by speaking. " 
Woodrow Wilson 

iwww.ndsmcobserver.com ~ 
former U.S. president

':1 ,:: 
:·~r~lfJ$0:)?{i~4\~~!~?=f?~~:4:·i#:YiMW'M~~f::-:~rf:r?~qm•w~:M:V0:Th'~F'=·= 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Thursday, April6, 2006 page 13 
Uncovering a cause 
Where did this come from? 
Ten weeks ago, many members of the Notre Dame community dismissed University President Father John Jenkins' pledge to end violence against women as window dressing -just an ambiguous remark made to please everyone before he harshly came down on one side. 
But something funny happened during the last two months. The president of Notre Dame -a school whose name is synonymous with glorify­ing the achievements of men on the football field -sparked a discussion that resulted in a monumental effort to end violence against women. 
When would anyone have expected Right to Life and Feminist  OJhe userver  
Voice ­a political mixture of water and oil ­to host a dance rais­ing money to help rape victims? No, they will never agree on the legality of abortion or who to vote  Editorial  
for in the next election. But in discussing what makes them differ­ 

ent, the two groups found they have quite a lot in common -and it's just one example of how this conversation has risen above party lines or strictly personal positions. 
Jenkins should be commended for steering the debate away from name-calling and bickering about our differences and toward an honest, civil discussion that achieved a commitment toward respect of women that has never been seen on this campus. 
He admitted he would not find a solution that would please everyone, but he did strive to bring the campus beyond its differences and back to what unites this University-the Notre Dame family. 

Internet porn is dangerous, addictive, degrading 
Yesterday, before a Congressional Committee, there was testimony of a 19-year-old man which was as gripping as it was appalling. When the young man was a boy of 13, he was as knowl­edgeable about the internet 
and its technology as are many  Richard V.  
of our own students. His testi- Warner, CSC  
mony was basically a repeti­tion of a series of articles in  FaithPoint  
The New York Times last  

December. But instead of words filling pages in black and white pages, there was the image of a young man who could easily have walked among us without calling attention to himself. 
He was lonely at the tender age of 13, and had a hard time making friends. So he turned to the internet where he thought he might find what was absent in his life. 
He quickly fell prey to the thousands of sexual predators who use that media to satisfy their base desires, and the next five years of his life went from bad to worse. 
The first approach he received was from a man who offered him $50 if he would pose before his web cam with his shirt off. "I took my shirt off at the pool," he said, "so I did not see what harm could come" from complying with the stranger's request. That was the beginning of a five-year journey into ever more demanding and degrading requests from men who offered him more and more money if he would comply with their requests through his web cam on the net. Over the five years, he earned hundreds of thousands of dollars, and eventually met with men who propositioned him -doctors, lawyers, business men. His estranged father, who he said he visited for a number of weeks, offered to help him increase his business, according to his testimony. And he quickly became addicted to marijuana and cocaine, as one inhibition after another van­ished. 
A reporter from The New York Times, who was engaged in research about child pornography on the internet, discovered Justin, and ultimately helped him to extricate himself from the morass in which he found himself. The young man has now completed his first semester in college, has a girlfriend, and has begun to put his life together. The Department of Justice has not followed up on the 1 ,500 names he gave them. Why is this sober­ing situation so important? For three reasons. 
First, Justin's situation is not unique. Fully one fifth of young people on the net are solicited, and one in thirty three young people are offered money in exchange for meeting with strangers. Child pornography is, and has been, a massive problem in our country. Yet three years ago, when the inexcusable sexual abuse on the part of 4 per­cent of Catholic clergy riveted the country's atten­tion with The New York Times dedicating at least one full page every day for a year to repetitive stories about Catholic clergy abuse, that newspa­per chose to ignore the larger picture of the mas­sive child sexual abuse which takes place every day in our country, most often at the hands of family members, teachers, coaches, cantors, scout leaders and strangers. Perhaps their overriding motive was to silence the often lonely voice of the Catholic Church on moral issues in a permissive society and culture, created mostly by the media, in the face of which few voices were raised. And if this was the intent of the editorial board of The New York Times, they accomplished it. 
Secondly, internet pornography is a problem for many students on our campus. I know that people do not realize this larger immoral context of exploitation and abuse which lies just below the surface. What might initially appear to be rela­tively harmless, is anything but that. It is, in effect, participation in a growth industry that exploits people only to make money one way or the other. I am afraid that for a small but growing number of our students, internet pornography is one of the most prevalent addictions we face. 
Finally, and most importantly, we are approach­ing the holiest week of our year. And it has every­thing to do with the human body. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, became man so that, in the words of St. Paul, "he might become like us in everything except sin," and in another place, "so that God might see and love in us what he sees and loves in His Son, Jesus." 
Jesus Christ not only left us a compelling com­pendium of teachings, but he "who knew no sin became sin" so that we might be saved. This action took place when "Jesus Christ became obe­dient even unto death and death on a cross," according to St. Paul. Jesus willingly accepted the passion and death he endured, for love of us. And he rose from the dead in a glorified body, and will share this reality for each of us and for all people who look to the cross and place their love and trust in him. 
Our bodies receive the body and blood of Jesus each time we come together as a community of believers to worship him through the Eucharist. As we remember his death and resurrection, through the ministry of the Church, this sacrifice of Jesus is made real for us as we remember. 
Our bodies, in the image of Jesus, are the dwelling place of the Spirit. 
We are members of the Body of Christ, united in faith with those who have gone before us, the holy men and women of all time, with those with whom we share our vibrant community of believ­ers on campus and in our residence halls and with the generations of those to come from every nation and race and culture. 
Because of this reality of our faith, we respect our bodies, grateful for "how wonderfully we are made," and the bodies of all men and women. 
Father Richard V. Warner, CSC, is the director of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at Warner.2@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
While all families have disagreements, successful ones have a common respect fpr the value of each individual. Jenkins respected both sides of this debate and did not come down hard on either camp. Refraining from punitive measures, he embraced an attitude of respect, acceptance and unity. He helped encourage every member of the Notre Dame family toward "the most urgent goal" -ending violence against women, a pervasive issue only now being brought to the fore­front of the University's attention. 
Catholic means "universal." Jenkins did not lay down a clear, black-and-white 
answer on the issue of how a Catholic university should operate in 
the secular, academic sphere -that would have caused nothing but 
division and conflict. 

Instead, he found common ground too often ignored in today's 
world. 

Debate will likely keep churning as the community watches how the president's three stated initiatives -the proposed performance of "Loyal Daughters," formation of an ad hoc committee to address violence against women and guidelines on sponsorship of academic events -play out over the course of the semester and next year. Whether or not Jenkins will follow through is still to be determined. 
But uniting the campus toward a single, honorable goal of ending violence against women is to be applauded. As Jenkins said, there is a "pressing need for the University of Our Lady to be a rising force for defending and advancing the rights and dignity of all women, everywhere." 
Our Lady -as the real head of this family -is glowing brightly today. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Pandora's box 
University President Father John Jenkins attempted to close Pandora's Box in his "Closing Statement on Academic Freedom and Catholic Character." I, for one, had hoped that the University community would cultivate the discussion that arose out of Jenkins' speech on January 23, 2006 into a broad dia­logue encompassing topics well beyond the initial issues. There are many policies existing at the University of Notre Dame, both official and unofficial, that are repugnant to Catholic doc­trines. However, now that we've "settled" the gender issues, Jenkins seems unwilling to tackle any of the more difficult top­ics. 
Take, for example, the University's position on the war in Iraq. Oh yes, the University most definitely has a position, which it clearly expresses through the Notre Dame ROTC Program. Now, anyone perceived as critical of the ROTC pro­gram opens himself up to a tidal wave of counter-attacks of being "unpatriotic," etc. In order to keep the focus on the real issue, academic freedom, I would like to clarify that I am not criticizing the ROTC program, only using it as a barometer of the University's support for the war. The University not only allows, but encourages the armed forces to recruit students and prospective students into the ROTC program. The University works in conjunction with the ROTC program to use University land, facilities and staff to promote and execute that recruitment (these same things constituted "sponsorship" with regards to the Queer Film Festival and Vagina Monologues). 
The University does this in spite of Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John D'Arcy's unequivocal sponsorship for the Vatican's position that the war in Iraq does not comport with Catholic doctrine of just war. The University backs the war notwith­standing the fact that tlie Catholic Church considers it immoral, but withdrew its "sponsorship" for the Vagina Monologues and the Queer Film Festival because the Catholic Church considers them immoral. 
This apparent incongruity begs the question: what is so dif­ferent about the war that President Jenkins closes debate before our community can discuss its place within the University's Catholic character? If any issue merits vigorous debate within the University's Catholic morality, it is the war. The University's ROTC program has trained hundreds of offi­cers who have gone on to tours in Iraq since the war began (there is even an Army ROTC Club of Iraq). Those officers have bravely and dutifully executed the policies of their Commander-in-Chief, policies that the Catholic Church consid­ers unjust. Why isn't Jenkins leading (instead of stifling) the University in a discussion of how the University can maintain this support for the war in the face of its Catholic character? 
Is it because Jenkins' concern over the gender issues was just a veiled response to the Board of Trustees and other pow­erful alumni? Is it because the University cannot afford to lose the economic juggernaut that is the Notre Dame ROTC pro­gram? I would like to believe the reason is simply that the University wishes not to offend its proud ROTC heritage. However, I am not quite that optimistic. 
I invite Jenkins to prove me wrong, and reopen the discus­sion on academic freedom, starting with the topic of the University's position on the war. If he refuses, I would like to challenge the community to force the issue. Ifour community can engage in the sort of passionate and intelligent dialogue that surrounded the Vagina Monologues and the Queer Film Festival, surely we can handle Iraq. 
James Parrot 
class of 1999 
April5 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Thursday, April 6, 2006 
CD REVIEWS 
Joel box set sums up many musical'Lives' 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 
Tlw box set is supposed to be some­thing special. a compilation that says, "This is a legitimatf), important por­fornwr." Ynt not everyone who gets a box set quite fulfills those eriteria. 
Take Billy Jol'l for example. llis box set "My Lives" is a strong portrait of solidly mliable artist, but it doesn't present Joel as a legitimate, important pnrformer ­though it eertainly tries. Spanning five discs, four decades and over sixty tracks, "My Lives" is the kind of box set that, ipso faeto, attempts to put him on the level of Bob Dylan ("The Bootleg Series") or Bruce Springsteen ("Traeks"). The problem is that Joel isn't quite in the same league-he's a talented and tune­ful songwriter and a competent per­former, even if his music veers toward commereial appeal. 
lin's had several good-to-great albums over the years (1Y77's "The Stranger" 
My Lives 
Billy Joel 

••• Sony 
.i 
•',' ·1 . ·" --,J ~r 


Recommended tracks: 'Piano Man,''Easy Money,' 'An Innocent Man' and 'Big Shot' 
and 1 Y83's "An Innocent Man" among the most notable), but the box set has a dill'erent mission -to show Joel in a dif­ferent dimension, to illustrate the depth and artistry of the writer and performer. Though it mostly succeeds in that task, Joel simply isn't the revolutionary that Dylan was, nor does he have the fiery dynamics of Springsteen -and that's exactly why the box set is so problemat­ic. 
. Yes, Joel had an impressive string of hits (many of which are represented on the set in one form or other), but 11ve discs worth of material is excessive. Three discs of material almost seemed excessive on "Greatest Hits Volumes I ­III," but the demos, alternate versions and live cuts get wearing after a while. 
Still, there's some great material scat­tered throughout the discs -most of the gems are the unexpected tracks, the material that wouldn't be expected from a polished craftsman like Joel. Among them are several interesting covers (The Beatles' 'Til Cry Instead" and "A liard 
Day's Night," Leonard Cohen's "Light as the Breeze" and Elvis Presley's "Heartbreak Hotel"). 
The album tracks and hits are all familiar, in some cases, a little too familiar ("Piano Man," anyone?) The best songs here are the lesser­known non-singles like "Easy Money" and "An Innocent Man" (one of his very best songs), which don't have the disadvantage of being incessantly played on AM radio and at SYRs. 
Latest 'Romance' album lacks punk chemistry 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Scene Critic 
l'unk roek is dead. God save punk rock. "My Chemieal Homanee" is the npitome of what pooplo think is now punk rock. llow far from the truth they are. 
After tlwir hit single ''I'm not Okay (I Promisnl" from the album "Throe Cheers for Swnnt Hevnnge," My Chemical Honmnce has rnleased a double-disk live album entitled "Life on the Murder Senne." This set also includes footage of thnir TV appnaranees and musie vidnos. 
Thnsn arn nicn pnrks, as most live albums arn merely a rehashing of music that orw could obtain by purchasing the studio albums. I lowever, the video addi­tions cannot make up for the band's laek of musical talent as they rehash much of the gothlpop-punk/emo that has become popular in rncnnt times. 
Based in Nnw Jersey, the band was formed in the early 2000s when lead singer Gerard Way and drummer Matt Pelissier began writing songs together. They completed their lineup when gui­tarists Hay Toro and Frank Iero and bassist Mikey Way joined. 
Their first album was released on Eyeball Hecords, the label that also start­ed the "screamo" ("screamo" is a genre eombining "emo" music with screaming for the unfamiliar) band Thursday's career. Entitled "I Brought You My Bullets, You Brought You My Love," the CD showcased My Chemical Romance as a band with aggressive yet poppy melodies and introverted, love-lorn lyrics. 
But the lyrics and aggressive melodies are exactly what are wrong with the band. If one were to combine Iron Maiden, Weezer and a healthy dose of the Cure, this is the band that would result-a group that sounds like all three but does not have the musical ability to stand on their own. 
Gone are the days of Iggy Pop, The Clash and Pennywise punk rock. Mohawks, leather jackets, piercing and all 
things that made 
punk rock the rebellious music
Life on the 
it was have been traded in for


Murder Scene 
black jackets, red ties, and black
My Chemical Romance 

eyeliner that can be bought at anyReprise/Wea 
Hot Topic retail 
outlet. Singing about how your girl­
friend just broke up with you is






4Jt)···>·
Recommended track: 'I'm Not Okay (I Promise)' 
fine. Just don't sing it like every-


Photo Illustration by JARRED WAFER Having amassed an Impressive body of work over the course of his career, Billy Joel's box set, "My Lives," pairs some of his classics with less-heard creations. 
The fifth disc is a live performance from Hamburg in 1993. It's a solid con­cert by a solid performer, but nothing revelatory. If anything, it highlights how cheesy some of Joel's material was ("Pressure," "Big Shot," etc.) back in the day. The German crowd, oddly enough, seems more into the performance than Joel himself, who seems to be going through the~motions a little. 
After all is said and done, the question still remains -does Billy Joel's discog­raphy really warrant a box set? Well, if Steely Dan, Rod Stewart and Chicago can all have box sets, then Joel certainly seems deserving enough, even if Joel's set is more purposeful than either of the aforementioned performers. 
"My Lives" is a strong indicator of Joel's work, and succeeds in painting him in different dimensions, but Joel himself isn't quite a strong enough singer-songwriter to sustain momentum over the amount of material found on the discs. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

one else while looking like everyone else. Weezer is full of nerds, Dashboard Confessional is a one-man, clean cut bleeding heart while My Chemical Romance looks and sounds like a sad rip­off of Green Day without the fame to back it up. 
There is something that Weezer, Dashboard Confessional and Green Day all have in common: originality both in sound and image. These are two aspects essential to the music that My Chemical Romance definitely lacks. 
Granted, the songs are catchy and they' know how to make a crowd enjoy music. However, the crowd in question has prob­ably never listened to anything related to punk rock since Blink 182 made it big. 
The name itself is a credit to the pigeon­hole this band has put itself in. My Chemical Romance conjures up images of a teenager with raging hormones lament­ing that the girl in his math class did not talk to him as he walked by her. 
If My Chemical Romance started singing about aspects of life that did not relate to broken hearts, they might have to change their name. 
If one happened to be thinking about buying this album, your money would be better spent elsewhere. Go out and buy "London Calling" by The Clash or Weezer's first self-titled album (colloquial­ly called "The Blue Album). Those bands at least have something to say aside from the recycled pop that is passing as punk rock. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel @nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, April 6, 2006 
page 15 
CD REVIEWS 
Skilled composer finds inspiration while 'Lost' 

Recommended tracks: 'Locke'd Out Again,''Life and Death,"Parting Words' and 'Oceanic 815' 
Inspired Christian rock weaves through Webb's latest 
As controversial as he is faithful, Christian rocker Derek Webb uses his missionary music to spread his messages of social justice and Christian responsibility. 
Recommended tracks: 'Mockingbird/ /1 King and a Kingdom,"Please, Before I Go' and /1 New Law' 
McCracken, his fellow singer and song­writer who also plays guitar on a number of songs. 
Webb hails from the band Caedmon's Call, with whom he performed and wrote music for 10 years. The band, formed in 1993, is known for its strong, catchy acoustic folk and alternative rock, as well as its brilliant and unashamed lyrics. 
To a greater extent, the messages on Derek Webb's new solo album are not usually what people are listening for and can be touchy. Webb deals with war, poverty and loving our enemies, among a variety of other things. But Webb declares that his aim is not to please peo­ple, and that he doesn't care about repu­tation. 
The opening title track, "Mockingbird," declares, ''I've got no new song to sing," and "I just tell you what I've heard," and then the rest of the album goes on to echo an old message: "Whatever you did for the least of these brothers of mine, you did for me." · 
Songs such as "A King and a Kingdom" 
declare that our 
first allegiance should not be to a flag, a country or a man, but to a King and a Kingdom. "A New Law" convicts people of ignoring what is uncom­fortable to think about and to act upon. 
The album's music ranges from rock to folk, incor­porating some By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Scene Critic 
Jlurley is not having a good day. If being marooned on an island in the South Pacific with 47 strangers isn't enough to complain about, the batteries in his CD player have just died -right in the middle of "Ddicate," a song by Damien Rice. Such is life for the genial but hapless Latino, one of the principal characters in the hit televi­sion series "Lost." 
Poor Hurley has gone without an audito­ry fix ever since the show's Feb. 23, 2005 episode ".. .In Translation." Fortunately for "Lost" fans, Michael Giacchino -the show's electric young composer -has been filling the silence on every episode since the pilot. Giacchino's work on the show has earned him rave reviews and garnered a 2005 Emmy for Outstanding Music Composition for a Series (Dramatic Underscore), beating out perennial favorites like "24" and "The Simpsons." 
Finally, almost 18 months to the day since "Lost" premiered back in 2004, 

By DAN MOORE Scene Critic 
Derek Webb, critically acclaimed for­mer member of Caedmon's Call, has released a third solo album that is rais­ing eyebrows, pricking ears and snap­ping lingers-and not just because of its catchy, rhythmic melodies. 
Webb has been known for a few years now as an artist who is unafraid to pro­claim messages that make people feel rather uncomfortable, and his new album, "Mockingbird," is certainly no exception. 
With tracks that emphasize such topics as social justice, politics and Christian responsibility, "Mockingbird" continues the message of Webb's other albums, "She Must and Shall Go Free" and "I See Things Upside Down" -which call the Church to be what it is meant to be: Christ's body in the world. 
Webb wrote one of the tracks on the album with the help of his wife, Sandra 
Mockingbird 
Varese Records has released a compilation of Giacchino's original works from the show's first season. It's been a long wait, but thankfully, a worthwhile one. 
Except for the first track -the ominous, foreboding music composed by series cre­ator J.J. Abrams that rises in pitch over the show's title card -every segment of the CD is composed by Giacchino and lov­ingly brought to life by the Hollywood Studio Symphony. 
When browsing through the names of the individual tracks, "Lost" fans should get a chuckle from Giacchino's quirky titles. It's a trend the composer carried over from his two "Alias" soundtracks. "Run Away! Run Away!" (incidentally, a common theme during the show's first season), "World's Worst Beach Party" and "Run Like, Urn ... Hell?" are three of the more memorable titles. 
Organized chronologically based on the events of the first season, the soundtrack is comprised primarily of individual motifs for the show's many characters, punctuat­ed by sweeping, grandiose pieces designed to engage the audience's emotions during the show's many dramatic -and silent-segments. Even the myste­rious, unnerving island gets its own individual track. Cleverly dubbed "The Eyeland," it remains in line with the thoughts of the "Lost" pro­ducers, who all acknowledge that the island is just as important a character in the first season as 
Jack, Kate, Sawyer and their fellow way­ward travelers. 
Giacchino breathes life into these char­acters through his deeply affecting themes, granting them a power that rivals the words "Lost" scribes put in their mouths every week. Actor Terry O'Quinn's charac­ter, John Locke, merits not one but two sig­nature tracks-"Locke'd Out Again" and "Crocodile Locke." "Locke'd Out Again" especially wraps the listener in the same feelings of tragedy and pathos that sur­round the enigmatic character and perme­ate his backstory. 
As the soundtrack reaches its conclu­sion, the recurring motifs reach a tri­umphant crescendo with "Life and Death," "Parting Words" and "Oceanic 815." The latter two melodies were used to stirring effect in "Exodus," the first season's two­part finale, and illustrate Giacchino's impressive command over strings and soft, lingering piano notes. Any one of these three tracks could have carried the climax of a big-budget feature film with more panache than 90 percent of the watered-down Hollywood soundtracks that clutter store shelves. 
Giacchino is easily one of the most versa­tile composers working in the entertain­ment industry today. He launched his career in video games, of all places, with scoring work on "The Lost World," the eponymous Sony PlayStation game based on Steven Spielberg's 1997 film, and the "Medal of Honor" series. Giacchino spun that work into his partnership with "Lost" and "Alias" creator Abrams, contributing orchestral scores to both those shows before making his feature film debut on Pixar's "The Incredibles." 
But with his work on "Lost," Giacchino demonstrates something much deeper than his formidable talent. He reminds us 
· that even on a show as character-driven as "Lost," all it takes is a few simple chords from a well-versed composer to over­whelm the senses and linger in your imag­ination. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 

interesting brass, strings and experimen­tal sounds. The resulting sound is very emotional, driving and often haunting, but always catchy. 
Mostly featuring rhythmic acoustic gui­tar and piano, Derek Webb showcases his unique voice (which often mirrors his lyrics in its edginess) with clear, intelligi­ble lines. It's convenient since the album unfortunately lacks lyrics in its insert. 
In "A New Law" and "Mockingbird," the guitars strum energetically to mellow piano riffs, driving these upbeat songs from start to finish as a cello and French horn punctuate the music at intense moments. Trumpets and horns also sup­port the love songs "I Hate Everything (But You)" and "Please, Before I Go." (In an interview with Christianity Today, Webb said, "Why let MTV or the media have the only word [on sexuality]? Why can't we have something to say about it as well?") Slower ballad tracks like "Rich Young Ruler" and "Love Is not Against the Law" incorporate bells and strings for additional depth and richness. 
Derek Webb is a refreshing taste of clarity and conviction in a business of lukewarm and self-centered music, and his undeniably appealing melodies will keep "Mockingbird's" challenging lyrics bouncing around in your head all day. 
Contact Dan Moore at dmoore6@nd.edu 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·--------------------------­
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, April 6, 2006 
MLB 



Griffey's blast passes DiMaggio, Rollins continues pursuit 
Junior lifts Reds over Cubs with No. 537, Arroyo hits No. 1, earns win; Rollins hits two doubles in Phillies' loss 
with the same routine, the same 
Associated Press 
philosophy. 

"I always say the frrst month of 
Cincinnati -Ken (;ri!Tey Jr.'s the season is very important for 
5:~7th earner homer got any team. If we keep doing what 
upstagnd by Bronson Arroyo's we're doing and having a great 
first. first or second month and play 
Arroyo got the loudest and the game like we've been play­longest ovations Wednesday -ing, we'll be in good shape." and a rnspectful bow from (;riffey -in a successful St. Louis 4, Philadelphia 3 Cincinnati debut. lin pitched into While Jimmy Hollins stretched the seventh inning and hit his his hitting streak to 38 games, first earner homer in his first at­the Philadelphia Phillies bat, leading the Heds to an 8-6 remained winless. victory over the Chieago Cubs. Yadier Molina's two-out RBI 
''I'll take that 50 timns over," single off Tom Gordon in the Arroyo said. ninth inning lifted the St. Louis 
llis do-it-all debut overshad­Cardinals to victory Wednesday ownd a big moment for Grifl"ey, night. who movfld ahnad of two Skip Schumaker hit his first Yankees with his first homer of career homer and Albert Pujols the snason. again went deep for the 
CriiTey's solo shot was his Cardinals. Winner Brad 537th. breaking a tie with Thompson pitched a perfect Mickey Mantle for 12th on the eighth inning, and Jason career list. It also providnd his Jsringhausen escaped a jam in 1,538th HBI, moving him ahead the ninth to get his first save. of Jon DiMaggio for 31st on that Philadelphia loaded the bases list, whieh doesn't include any­on a single by Pat Burrell and thing bdore 1920. when HBis walks by Hyan Howard and bneamn a statistic. David Hell, but lsringhausen 
retired Mike Lieberthal on a Cleveland 4, grounder to first base to end it. Chicago White Sox 3 Bell hit a tying, two-run homer 
Forget last season. The off Mark Mulder in the seventh Cleveland Indians sure have. inning. But the Cardinals went They're ready from the start to ahead against Gordon in his firs.t mount a challenge to the appearance for the Phillies. Beckett got off to a rocky start, Wagner, and Jose Guillen's two­and walked none. Chieago White Sox. allowing a leadoff double by run shot in the lOth inning sent 
"Our goal is to win each series Baltimore 16, Tampa Bay 6 Brad Wilkerson before throwing the Washington Nationals to vic­Milwaukee 3, Pittsburgh 2 and it's nice to get this first one," Off to their best start since a wild pitch and allowing tory over New York on Prince Fielder proved it does­Cleveland manager Erie Wedge 1997, the unbeaten Baltimore Michael Young's infield RBI sin­Wednesday night. n't take a mighty swat to bust a said after Wednesday's 11-Orioles stand alone atop the AL gle. But the Rangers got only one Nick Johnson hit a three-run season-opening slump. inning victory over the defending East. runner to third base against drive in the sixth to start Fielder's looping single scored World Series champions. Jay Gibbons homered and Beckett after that. Washington's comeback from a Geoff Jenkins with the go-ahead 
Jason Michaels doublnd in the drove in four runs, and Making his first start for the four-run deficit against right­run in the eighth inning go-ahead run -his fourth hit of Baltimore used a 16-hit attack to Red Sox not far from his home­hander Brian Bannister. who Wednesday night and lifted the thn gamn -and the Indians breeze past the Tampa Bay Devil town of Spring, Texas, Beckett began his big league career with Milwaukee Brewers to a victory took two of three in thn opening Rays Wednesday night. allowed a run and scattered 5 1-3 hitless innings. that completed a season-opening snries between the AL Central Before they turn their atten­seven hits. He had five strikeouts Left fielder Alfonso Soriano three-game sweep of the rivals. tion toward the remaining 160 and one walk, throwing 75 of his departed in the sixth, four Pittsburgh Pirates. 
Clevnland went 9-14 last April, games, the Orioles will savor the 109 pitches for strikes. innings after he was hit in the A highly regarded prospect falling 7 1/2 games baek. And first two. After opening the sea­helmet by a pitch from who became the Brewers' start­evnn though the Indians were son Monday with a 9-6 win over Houston 6, Florida 5 Bannister. ing first baseman when the team 39-18 during the seasons' final the Devil Hays, Baltimore Lance Berkman and Preston traded Lyle Overbay in the off­two months, they fell short of the cranked up the offense another Wilson each hit two-run homers Seattle 6, LA Angels 4 season, Fielder was 0-for-9 with postseason after a 1-6 finish. notch against Seth McClung and and the Houston Astros held on Nothing was routine in this seven strikeouts when he walked 
a parade of relievers. for the win over the Florida early April game for Jarrod in the second to reach base for Detroit 14, Kansas City 3 Melvin Mora and rookie Nick Marlins Wednesday night. Washburn. the first time this season. 
Ivan Hodriguez powered the Markakis homered, Ramon Craig Biggio had two hits and After eight seasons with the He fell behind reliever Hoberto Detroit Tigers to a 2-0 start Hernandez went 2-for-2 with scored two runs as the defend­Angels, Washburn faced his for­Hernandez 0-2 before finally under new manager Jim two walks and three RBis, and ing NL champions took two of mer teammates for the frrst time breaking through with a broken­Leyland. Brian Hoberts had two hits and three in their opening series and led the Seattle Mariners bat bloop hit. 
Hodriguez went 5-for-5 with a three HBis. Hernandez has yet to with the Marlins, the team with over Jeff Weaver and Los ''I'll take it," Fielder said. ''I'll homer, three doubles and five make an out this season. the league's lowest payroll. Angeles Wednesday. take four of those a day if they HBis Wednesday, helping the Brad Lidge got Josh "I'd be lying if I said I didn't come." Tigers to victory and two-game Boston 2, Texas 1 Willingham to ground out with want to win today more than Fielder, the son of former sweep of the Kansas City Hoyals. Josh Beckett pitched seven runners on first and second in any other of my starts," major leaguer Cecil Fielder, was 
"When you have a day like this innings to win his Boston debut the ninth to get his second save. Washburn said. dropped from fifth to seventh in early in the year, it's great," and Trot Nixon hit a two-run Signed to a $37 million, four­the lineup Wednesday by Hodriguez said. "I've been homer in the Red Sox's victory Washington 9, NY Mets 5 year contract, Washburn Brewers manager Ned Yost, who swinging the bat pretty good in over the Texas Hangers on Ryan Zimmerman hit a tying allowed two runs and six hits in wanted to take some pressure spring training, so I just stayed Wednesday night. homer off new Mets closer Billy seven innings, struck out seven ofT of him. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Nanny to care for our toddler. Full time weekdays during summer. Part time or full time in the fall. Previous experience required. Fax resume or letter to 574-251-1898. 
Highly motivated, ethical/socially responsible, entrepreneurial, go· getters with desires to make a meaningful impact on transforming the international business world while making a large amount of 
$$$$. I am an alum based in Jackson Hole and arn looking for students for part time. full time, or summer employment to work for commission. Can work from home. www.effectiveexecutivecoaching.co m 

FoR SALE 
4 bdrm/2bth newly remodeled house near campus. $87.000. 220­
8666. 
Do not rent or live in a dorm. Come see 429 Tonti, 112 mile from ND Campus! Make your dream of homeownership a reality. 1232 sq It, 3+car garage. Call Donna @993­5060. 
Mac G4 Powerbook, extended war· ranty, $1700 obo. jcress@nd.edu 
FoR RENT 
NEWI http://ndrental.tripod.com 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED· 
ROOM HOMES 
MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 
1-bdrm apt. $400 +utilities. A/C,security system,fenced yard,carpeted,laundry,on bus route. No smoking or pets, lease deposit required. 574-289-9365. 
4 BR, 1.5 BA. fenced back yard, <2 mi. to ND. 428 Preston. $795/mo. 269-663-2299 
Looking for lodging for horne foot­ball games? Caii574-276-B417 for details. 
Office Space For Lease 1733 SF at $1000 Per Month NNN. Walking Distance to ND. Contact Grubb & Ellis/Cressy & Everett, Tony Davey 574-271-4060. 
1.5 blks to ND · 626 Peashway. Very nice, clean newly painted & carpeted, 2 bdrm brick ranch 1 blk. west of new IU Medical Ed.Ctr. Large living room, 2 large bdrms, large closets, one full bath, large kitchen & t-ear attached garage. Private, fenced-in backyard, quiet & safe area. Neighborhood ordinances apply. $1125/mo. 574-272-9944 or 574­272-4796 eve. 
3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web site:mrnmrentals.com Contact:Gary 574-993-2208 or grooms@ourweb­spot.net 
Retail/Office Space For Lease 1 BOO SF at $10 PSF NNN on SA 23 east of Ironwood, Near ND. Contact Grubb & Ellis/Grassy & Everett, Noah Davey 574-271-4060 4 bdrm/2 bth house near campus. 
$1350. 220-8666. 
TICKETS 

O.A.R. tix first 3 rows & James Taylor. Call 272-7233. 
TOP DOLLAR PAID FOR YOUR FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. PLEASE CALL 2n-t659. 
PERSONAL 

Hmmm... Mt. Olympus or home? Mt. Olympus or home? Eurydice 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, esc at 631-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
It must be a horner, Simpson cuz the pitcher just went "D'OH!" 
It's never iffy if it's Griffey! 
YAHTZEE! 
Tell 'em what they've won...it's a National League baseball game. 
We show you this to see how women 1 8-34 feel about the play. 

That's his 537th homer ...Not in one game, that'd be a record. 
Thursday, April 6, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 


OIN 
Thursday, April 6, 2006 
What are Holy Week &the Sacred Triduum? 
Near the conclusion of the season of Lent, Holy Week is this most special time of year when we solemnly reflect on the passing of Jesus from life, to death, to new life. It begins with Palm Sunday, and culmi­nates in the liturgies of the Sacred Triduum (Latin for "three days") on Holy Thursday, Good Friday, and Holy Saturday, before Easter Sunday. 
Holy Week festivities begin on ahigh note this coming Sunday with the remembrance of Jesus's triumphal entry into Jerusalem at the Mass of Palm Sunday of the Lord's Passion. As its name might sug­gest, however. this Mass moves quickly to amuch more somber tone, as we hear the entire Passion narrative from the Last Supper through the crucifixion, death, and placing of Christ in the tomb. Throughout Holy Week, Mass readings will spend additional time reflecting on each of these events: readings on Holy Monday & Holy Tuesday lead us to "Spy Wednesday," when Judas Iscariot's betrayal of Jesus is remembered. 
Holy Thursday's Mass of the Lord's Supper recalls Jesus's in­stitution of the Eucharist and the sacramental Priesthood, as well as His commandment (in Latin, mandatum) to serve others as represented by His washing of the disciples' feet. 
At the Good Friday Celebration of the Lord's Passion, we recall with mourning and sadness the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. Those who
.... 

gather for this liturgy are invited to come forward to venerate the Holy Cross with akiss, and Holy Communion is distributed using the Eucharist consecrated on Holy Thursday. No where in the world is Mass celebrated on this day, and churches are made to feel more like tombs as their taber­nacles are left empty and open, sanctuary lamps snuffed out and altars left bare. 
On Holy Saturday evening, the Easter Vigil. as the most solemn Liturgy of the entire Church year, celebrates Jesus's Resurrection and the salvation that He won for us. Beginning in darkness that is gradually overcome by the Light of Christ the readings recount with great anticipa­tion the story of salvation history. culminating with Christ's conquering of sin and death. At this liturgy, the Catholic Church also welcomes new members into the fold through the Sacraments of Baptism, Confirma­tion, and Eucharist. With much joy and many "Alleluias," the Church proclaims the very heart of our Christian faith in Word. Song, and Sacra­ment. Easter Sunday morning Masses all continue the great celebration that began at the Easter Vigil. 
Send uestions to Brett Perkins: Perkins.26@nd.edu! 
Phone 1-7800 
Main Office 
319 CoMo 
Retreats Office 
114 CoMo 

Campus Ministry 
Web 

campusministry.nd.edu 
AMatt Leinart jersey for a Blue and Gold #10 and "Fight On" for "The Notre Dame Victory March"-these are the trades Junior Danielle Thomson made when she tmnsferred this past summer from USC to Notre Dame. Danielle's journey from darkness into light, from degmda­tion to redemption. from squalor to bliss, from Trojan to Leprechaun is a testament to her strong faith. Failed attempts at humor a'iide, Danielle discovered that she wanted to transfer to Notre Dame while she was participating in the Campus Ministry Leadership Institute (CMLI), atmining program for campus ministers and student leaders, which took place on Campus during the summer. Danielle's desire to study Theology and minister to others is attested to in the immense courage it must have taken to transfer after two years of previous studies, leaving friends behind, to go to aschool where she knew almost no one. 
Even with the daunting nature of this new beginning. Danielle wasted no time living out her faith at Notre Dame. One of Danielle's biggest contributions to Notre Dame this year has been her leadership role in the Four: 7program. In addition to helping run the Tuesday night sessions, Danielle co-coordinated the Four: 7retreat which occurred two weekends ago. In testament to her own modesty Danielle specifically requested that 1not compile a laundry list of her various other endeavors; so of course that's exactly what [did. Danielle's other ministries this year include being CSC student assistant. singing in the Keough Hall Mass choir, being the Right to Life club liaison. the JPW Engineering Workshop chair and also a member of the Take Back the Night Committee. 
Danielle's commitment to her faith will carry into the summer as well as she participates in two very important ministry related programs. Danielle will be present on campus for a week this summer as she helps to coordinate CMLI, the very program that brought her to Notre Dame in the first place. In addition to that, Danielle will spend six weeks as an Intern in the United States Council of Catholic Bishops' Office of Youth Ministry. All that Danielle has accomplished in her short time here serves as agreat example of the effect that person's care and concern can have on others. ing atime when it would have only been natural for Danielle to look to others for welcome and 
.~.,.--~..,.she thought only of what she could do others. The Notre Dame family truly gained a special daughter this year. Thanks Danielle. 
Let us know who out there 
is making adifference! Send nominations to Brian Vassel at 

Thursday, April 6, 2006 


PGA 

Golfers to face longest track ever at Augusta 
Several hole changes provide formidable test 
Associated Press 

AUGUSTA, Ga. -One by one, players trudgnd up the hill leading to thn clubhouse at Augusta National, then paused and gazed back at a course that by now they should know all too well. 
But this Masters seems to eontain more mystery than ever. 
Part of that is the sheer lnngth. The tnes were pushed back on six holes, stretehing the eourse to 7,445 yards, the second-longest course in major championship history behind Whistling Straits (7 ,514 yards) two years ago at the PGA Championship. 
The par-3 fourth hole now is 240 yards, requiring most players to hit fairway metal, and some players to hit a driv­er. The par-4 11th is 505 yards, with trees to the right of' the landing area and a pond to the left of the green ready to swallow up any mistake. 
Masters chairman llootie Johnson vigorously defended the changes Wednesday, espe­cially at No. 11, pointing out that Bobby Jones intended the second shot to be played with a 3-iron or more. 
"lie [Jones) probably was hitting into a green that ran at 2 on the Stimpmeter," said Heticf Goosen. "The condition of the greens now arc dif'ferent than they were in the 1900s. You hit a 3-iron on the front of that green, it rolls off into the water." 
And then there's the weath­er. 
Azaleas and dogwoods are blazing even brighter under a warm sun. The tightly mown grass beneath the feet is firm, not slippery. Not since 2001 has the Masters been contest­ed over four days in relatively dry, fast conditions. That's a significant date, because seri­ous expansion at Augusta National didn't start until the next year. 
"We haven't really played many Masters with dry condi­tions yet," Ernie Els said. "We might lind out this week." 
The final day of practice revealed some potential prob­lems, with wedge shots bounc­ing hard off the green, then crawling endlessly until they were off the putting surface. And it doesn't take much to make a mistake around here. 
Then again, Goosen said some of the longer holes were playing shorter than recent years because of the firm ground that allowed tee shots to roll. He cited No. 9, where he hit a big drive and a sand wedge, compared with a driv­er and a 7-iron last year in soft conditions. 
What will it take to win? 
"I don't see anyone in double figures," Goosen said, adding that he would take 4 under par and like his chances. 
This is the 40-year anniver­sary of Jack Nicklaus winning the Masters at even-par 288, the last champion who wasn't under par. 
That's a possibility this week. 
MLB 

Ruth's daughter prepared 
Bonds sits eight HRs shy of immortal 714 
Associated Press 

SUN CITY, Ariz. -Julia B.uth Stevens sits in her favorite chair in her tiny, pale pink living room and happily shares details about more than a dozen pictures of her famous father hanging on every wall. 
Lately, Stevens hears his name -she simply refers to Babe Huth as "Daddy" ­mentioned almost daily on the news, now that San Frandsco slugger Barry Bonds is closing in on Huth's home run mark. 
"It doesn't matter what the record is, I don't think there is anybody who is going to take Daddy's place," she said. "He was special. Daddy said records were made to be bro­ken. It's the first person who people remember.... 
"As long as there is base­ball. Daddy's name is always going to be mentioned. He was one or a kind." 
Bonds entered Wednesday's game at San Diego with 708 home runs, seven shy of pass­ing Huth. 
Even though Hank Aaron holds the all-time record of 755 home runs, there is still something magical about the Babe's 714. 
"If you ask the average per­son, the average person prob­ably knows 714 more than 755 -714 kind of rhymes I guess," said Cubs manager Dusty Baker, Bonds' former skipper in San Francisco. "But 755 is the record." 
San Francisco plays its 

NOW SELLING ft 
FROM THE 1705 UNITS 
AVAILABLE FOR 
574-273-2000 
FALL 
-WALK TO CAMPUS -2-3 STORY FLOORPLANS -2 CAR ATTACHED GARAGES -2.5+ BATHROOMS -2-4 BEDROOMS 
MODEL OPEN WED-FRI 12-6PM SAT-SUN 12-SPM 

VISIT OUR FURNISHED MODEL OR OUBLINVILLAGE.COM 
435 ABBEY ST. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 SSM ITH@COOREMAN.COM 

home opener Thursday against the Atlanta Braves. 
Stevens, 88 and legally blind for 30 years, respectful­ly doesn't want to be part of celebrating Bonds' achieve­ment whenever it might hap­pen. She hasn't spoken direct­ly to the team. 
"I would say 'Thank you for the invitation. I just don't feel I could do it,"' she said. "That is not a negative thing and that's not taking anything from Barry Bonds. I do not want them to think, 'She's a poor sport,' because it's OK with me." 
Stevens and her son, Tom Stevens, are scheduled to be in Chicago later this month. Tom will throw out the first pitch before the Cubs host the Milwaukee Brewers, and that's as close as they plan to get to any fanfare. 
"We've reached out to her and she referred us to her son," Giants executive vice president Larry Baer said Wednesday. "We're working with the son to see what if anything to do." 
B.uth always told his daugh­ter, whom he adopted after marrying her mother Claire when Stevens was 12, that he could accept players passing his milestones. 
Still, Stevens believes her father would be upset by the way the game has changed and how so many players, most notably Bonds, are accused of using steroids to boost their power numbers and home run totals in the last decade. 
"If he came back, I person­ally think he would be disap­pointed if there was the slightest tinge of anything 
that would hurt a baseball 
player's career if it eame out, 
which it has," she said. "lie 
would think you ought to do it 
on your own. I still love base­
ball and I always will, but I 
wish it hadn't changed. That's 
an old lady talking." 

After last month's release of "Game of Shadows," a book by two San Francisco Chroniele reporters revealing Bonds' alleged longtime use of performance-enhancing drugs, commissioner Bud Selig announced baseball would investigate past steroid use by players. 
"I like to stay out of' any controversy-I'm sure you know what l mean," Stevens said. "I don't know enough about it to make a judgment." 
For Stevens, nothing can overshadow what Huth accomplished in his 22-year big league career. 
ller eyes no longer allow her to read a newspaper, so Stevens gets most of her base­ball information on a nnw 32­inch flat screen television sta­tioned about live feet in front of her chair. She watches close to 80 games a season. 
Stevens has Huth memora­bilia throughout her house, including a tabln with steins, beer and wine bottles, even a cereal box, featuring his face. There are figurines of his likeness and framed baseball cards. 
One picture in particular dates back to Ruth's initial years wearing Yankee pin­stripes in the 1920s, still in its original, worn wooden frame. He's posing in his hitting stanee. 
"You can see how slim he still was," she said. 
Thursday, April 6, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 

CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN.





STUDENTS 
University Resources for Gay, lesbian, and Bisexual Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students (Confidential information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see website tor student contact info). 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat tor gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Dick Warner, CSC, at 1-9704 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more information, check out our website: http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME SUMMER SESSION JUNE 19-AUGUST 4, 2006 
The 2006 summer session will begin on Monday, June 19 (enrollment), and Anthropology end on Friday, August 4(final exams). Some courses-primarily in science and Architecture languages-will begin and end before or after these dates. The Summer Session Art Bulletin contains complete schedule information. The Bulletin is available at the Biology Summer Session Office (111 Earth Sciences Bldg.) beginning on Monday, February Business 27.1nformation on summer courses, as it appears in the Bulletin, is also available at 
Chemistry the Summer Session website (www.nd.edu/-sumsess). 
Classical Languages 
Computer Applications 
Notre Dame continuing students-undergraduate and graduate students in 
Economics
residence during the spring semester of 2006 who are eligible to return in the 
Engineering
fall-must use Web Registration (1) to register for summer courses and (2) to add English
or drop courses according to the add and drop dates specific to each course. The Film
Web Registration PIN (personal identification number) for summer is available on French
insideND for all continuing students. Instructions for course registration (selection) German
are available at http://registrar.nd.edu. Course reference numbers (CRNs) are History
published in the Bulletin and at the Summer Session website. Irish Studies Web Registration will be available for summer registration from Wednesday, March Italian 15, through the add and drop dates specific to each course. Students may register Mathematics or make schedule changes whenever they choose dur'1ng this period; no appoint­Music ment times are necessary. 
Philosophy 
Physics

Air-conditioned and non-air-conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal 
Political Science 

plans will be available. Forms for meal plans may be obtained at the Summer 
Psychology

Session Office at any time during the spring semester. Students may apply for 
Sociology

summer housing online at www.nd.edu/-sumsess Spanish 
Tuition forthe summer session of 2006 will be $598 per credit hour for undergradu­Theatre ate students and $314 per credit hour for graduate students, plus a$50 general fee. Theology 
NHL 

Jagr leads NY, is favorite for MVP 
Right wing was integral in Rangers' resurgence 

AP 

Rangers forward Michael Nylander, right, congratulates goal­tender Kevin Weekes Tuesday at Madison Square Garden. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Jaromir Jagr was right. The New York Rangers are a playoff team. 
The odds-on choice to be the NHL MVP shook off the doubters and said so at the start of train­ing camp in September. Then he went out and made it happen. 
His record-setting season is going to stretch longer into April as the Rangers march into the postseason for the first time since 1997. 
"I was 90 percent sure we were going to make it," Jagr said after the Rangers locked up a spot Tuesday with a shootout win over Philadelphia. ''I'm glad. I got what I expected. I would be very upset if we didn't make it." 
For seven seasons, the Rangers were the NHL's face of mismanagement and over­spending. It was because of them that many smaller-market clubs claimed they couldn't compete in the same league. Last year's lockout produced the salary cap that leveled the financial playing field for all 30 teams. 
Truth is, it was New York that was noncompetitive. Payrolls that climbed into the $70-mil­lion range failed to produce anything close to a winner. 
Success couldn't be bought, at least not by anyone in charge at Madison Square Garden. 
"Sometimes it's too much and it's not good," Jagr said. "I felt like there were too many super­stars on one team." 
New York snapped the longest-running playoff drought in the league and has a three­point lead over Philadelphia in the Atlantic Division with seven games left -including one head-to-head matchup. 
The Rangers aren't satisfied with just making the playoffs. "I feel really reluctant to talk too much about it because this 
is only the first step in what we are trying to do and what we are trying to accomplish," gen­eral manager Glen Sather said. "There are more goals to achieve and there is a bigger picture ahead of us." 
The lockout is ultimately what helped the Rangers produce a young, energetic team that clicked right away with a road win at Philadelphia on opening night. 
Jagr was the established force, and the offense was com­plemented by fellow Czechs Martin Straka and Martin Rucinsky. Throw in veteran for­ward Michael Nylander and rookie Petr Prucha -who has 29 goals -and the Rangers had the makings of a potent offense, especially with new rules imple­mented to open up the game. 
"Nobody believed we could do any damage in this league and I think that worked to our advan­tage," Jagr said. 
The biggest addition was rookie goalie Henrik Lundqvist, who showed New York he could be a big-time player months before leading Sweden to the Olympic gold medal. Lundqvist wrested the No. 1 starting job away from Kevin Weekes and won over the home crowd. 
He is the first Rangers rookie to win 30 games. 
"The chemistry on the team is great, and so far it's been fun for everybody here," Jagr said. 
He saw it come together quickly and boldly predicted a playoff appearance for a team other pegged for last in the league. 
"I don't think you ever go into a season admitting anything to anyone that you're going to win the Stanley Cup, you're not going to make the playoffs or you are going to make the play­offs," Sather said. "I knew that they were going to be a good team as soon as we had them together in training camp." 



OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, April 6, 2006 COMPJ LED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 20 
NBA Standings 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pet. GB 
New Jersey 45-28 .616 Philadelphia 34-39 .466 11 Boston 31-43 .419 14.5 Toronto 26-48 .351 19.5 New York 19-54 .260 26 
Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team record pet. GB 
Detroit 60-14 .811 Cleveland 45-29 .608 15 Milwaukee 37-37 .500 23 Indiana 35-38 .479 24.5 Chicago 34-40 .459 26 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team t·l~<:ord pet. CB 
Miami 49·25 .662 Washington 38-35 .521 10.5 Orlando 29·44 .397 19.5 Atlanta 22-51 .301 28.5 Charlotte 21·54 .280 28.5 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pd. GB Denver 41·34 .547 Utah 35-39 .473 2.5 Minnesota 31·43 .419 9.5 Seattle 31-43 .419 9.5 Portland 20-53 274 20 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team reeord pet. GB Phoenix 49-24 .671 LA Clippers 43·30 .589 6 LA Lakers 40-35 .533 10 Sacramento 38-37 .507 12 Golden State 30-43 .411 19 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
t()am reeord pet. GB San Antonio 58-16 .784 Dallas 56-19 .747 2.5 Memphis 43-32 .573 15.5 New Orleans 35-38 .479 22.5 Houston 32-42 .432 . 26 
NCAA Women's Softball Top 25 
No·. t11am record points 
1 Texas 28-3 486 2 Arizona 30-4 469 3 UCLA 30-3 460 4 Alabama 32-4 456 5 Tennessee 33-4 403 6 Oregon State 28-3 402 7 Cal 33-4 376 8 Stanford 27-6 368 9 Arizona State 37-4 357 10 LA-Latayette 29-6 288 11 Georgia 31-9 285 12 LSU 35-5 278 13 Michigan 20-9 259 14 Washington 26·10 248 15 Northwestern 22-8 243 16 Nebraska 25-6 195 17 Texas A&M 25-10 174 18 Baylor 22-14 126 19 Louisville 23-5 119 20 Auburn 24-10 111 21 Oklahoma 24·13·1 105 22 Fresno State 24-13 54 23 Southern Illinois 23-5 51 24 Virginia Tech 28-8 41 25 DePaul 14-7 37 
around the dial 
MLB 

Atlanta at San Francisco, 4:05 p.m., TBS 
NBA 

Detroit at Miami, 8 p.m., TNT LA lakers at Denver, 10:30 p.m., TNT 
NCAA MEN'S lACROSSE 

AP Duke lacrosse coach Mike Pressler heads out to practice March 29 in Durham, N.C. Pressler resigned Wednesday and the school cancelled the rest of the season amidst team rape allegations . 
Duke coach resigns, season cancelled 
Associated Press 
DUHHAM, N.C.-Duke University's lacrosse coaeh resigned Wednesday and the school eanceled the rest of the season amid a burgeoning scandal involving allegations that three players on the highly ranked team raped a stripper at an off-campus party. · 
Mike Pressler spent 16 seasons at Duke and won three Atlantic Coast Conference champi­onships. Last year, his team appeared in the national championship game. 
"Coach Pressler offered me his resignation earlier this afternoon, and I accepted it," Duke athletic director Joe Alleva said. "I believe this is in the best interests of the program, the department of athlet­ics and the university." 
The rape allegations have roiled the campus and the city, raised racial tensions, and heightened the long-standing antago­nism between the privi­leged students at the elite university and the poorer people of Durham~ 
The stripper is black and said her attackers were white. Investigators and witnesses have said the lacrosse players taunted her with racial slurs and insults. 
Students and townspeo­ple have marched on cam­pus and off in recent days, angry over the school's handling of the allegations and the team members' refusal to cooperate with police. Investigators have said the athletes are stick­ing together and keeping silent. No one has been charged. 
The lacrosse team's co­captains have denied that anyone was sexually assaulted at the party, as have attorneys for the players. 
Earlier Wednesday, authorities unsealed docu­ments stating that hours 
IN BRIEF 
Average MLB salary creeps
toward $3 million 
NEW YORK -Baseball's average salary soared 9 percent this year to nearly $2.9 million, with Alex Hodriguez topping a sport in which more than half the players on open­ing-day rosters make $1 million or more. 
Hodriguez headed the list at $25.7 million and was No. 1 for the sixth straight year, according to a study of major league contracts by The Associated Press. He was followed by New York Yankees teammates Derek Jeter ($20.6 million) and Jason Giambi ($20.4 million). 
San Francisco's Barry Bonds was fourth at $20 million, and Houston's Jeff Bagwell -who might not play because of a shoulder injury -was next at $19.3 million. 
"Baseball had record crowds last year," Giambi said. "Probably with Barry going to break the [home run] record, it will bump it up and more people will come out and watch it. 
That makes players more popular, and in turn guys make more money." 
This year's record $2,866,544 average was up 8.9 percent from last year's figure of $2,632,655. Cavs' Jones cleared of sex 
offense charges 
CLEVELAND -Cavaliers guard Damon Jones won't be charged in the investigation of an Arizona woman's claim that he committed a sexual ofl'ense against her. 
"Barring any new information, our investigation is closed with no charges," Westlake police Capt. Guy Turner said Wednesday. 
The 23-year-old woman, who was visiting Cleveland, filed a complaint against Jones when she returned to Chandler, Ariz., alleging an offense was committed March 3. 
"The whole time I said that I was innocent," Jones said before the Cavs' game at New York. "I knew there was an investigation that had to happen and I respect that process. I was fully cooperative and I'm just after the alleged rape, a player apparently sent an e-mail saying he wanted to invite more strippers to his dorm room, kill them and skin them. It was not clear whether the message was serious or a joke. 
"The court released today a previously sealed warrant, whose contents are sickening and repul­sive," said Duke President Hichard Brodhead said in announcing the caneella­tion of the rest of the sea­son. Last week, Brodhead suspended the team from play. 
The stripper is a student at a nearby university. 
glad it's over." 

The Arizona Department of Public Safety analyzed evidence and results were negative for the presence of male DNA. The woman was unable to deseribe any sex act, where it may have taken place or who was involved, police said. I.SU's Au~stus first _pick byMinnesota in WNBA oraft 
BOSTON -Seimone Augustus ran the gamut of emotions this weekend in Boston. 
Hoping to win the NCAA women's title with LSU, the nation's leading scorer and the Lady Tigers were ousted in the national semifinal Sunday night by Duke. Three days later, Augustus was back on top as the No. 1 pick in the WNBA draft. 
LSU's go-to player is going to Minnesota. 
"After the semifinal loss, I mainly went back to my room and read books to try to keep my mind off of what just happened," Augustus said. 
...-----------------­
~----------­
Thursday, April 6, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXV 
The Boy Band no longer singing after first-round loss 
Welcome to the Thunderdome tops The Boy Band 21-10; Lazy Sunday falls to Bone Thugz in lopsided game , 
Shame to breeze through the contributing to the lopsidedBy GREG ARBOGAST, JAY 
first round. loss. FITZPATRICK and CHRIS "Defense was definitely key Early on, the game was WILLIAMS in today's win," Naked with­marked by sloppy play and Sports Writers out Shame captain Stephen turnovers as the teams both 
Currie said. "We started out worked to find an offensive 
Two teams entered McGlinn slow, but then picked it up rhythm. courts with hope of advanc­and put our buckets in." "They came out of the gate ing to the second round, but One crucial factor in the a little sloppy," Bone Thugz only Welcome to team's defense was its tenac­coach Mike Ortiz said. "But Thunderdome left with that ity. All five team members of they turned it on after a dream intact -overpower­Naked without shame would while." ing The Boy Band in a 21-10 go all out for steals and After the slow start, Bone victory. rebounds against 133 -a Thugz stepped up their game 
Th underdome 's main main reason for the inaccu­with Maurice leading the weapon against the slower, rate passing and shooting. way. With the game tied at shorter Boy Band was their The team's ability to get two apiece, Maurice scored strong transition offense. The down the court quickly was five of the team's next seven Boy Band was unable to get also decisive in Naked with­points as they stretched their back on defense after com­out Shame's victory. After lead to 9-2. Maurice finished mitting turnovers, giving forcing the turnovers, Naked with nine points. Every play­Thunderdome the chance to was consistently er on Bone Thugz pull ahead. able to outrun scored at least two
"They came out of
"I think one main positive 133 down the points. in our game was that we court and finish the gate a little As for the Bone made the shots when they in transition sloppy, but they Thugz's chances in counted," Welcome to before 13 3 could the following
turned it on after a
Thunderdome captain Greg get back on rounds, Ortiz took
while."
Cochara said. defense. the brutally hon-


Cochara's team shot well in the second half after failing to find their touch in the first half. The Boy Band hung with Thunderdome at the beginning of the game, keep­ing the score close for much of the first half. But the team went cold in the second half and Thunderdome 's speed outmatched the Boy Band. 
Despite the tough loss, The Boy Band still remained con­fident for next spring's tour­nament, where they hope to have a much better showing. 
"The off-season starts today," Boy Band center Conor McNamara said. 
Naked without Shame 21, Team 133 6 
Naked without Shame dom­inated its opponent Team 133 in a 21-6 win Wednesday. 
Team 133 showed signs of promise, forcing key turnovers and grabbing important rebounds against Naked without Shame -but was never able to fully capi­talize. Unlucky shots and mistimed passes put the ball in their opponent's hands, enabling Naked without 
Despite the est route. team's impressive ''I'm going to be
Mike Ortiz 
win Wednesday, honest: I think
Bone Thugz coach 
Currie remains realistic about his team's ultimate chances in the tournament. 
"We played well today, but I still think we'll probably get knocked out in section finals by the fifth ranked team," Currie said. 
Bone Thugz 21, Lazy Sunday 8 
Bone Thugz used over­whelming defense and a fast­break offense to pace their way to a 21-8 victory over Lazy Sunday Wednesday at Stepan. 
After a James Rudy jump shot brought Lazy Sunday within six points at 14-8, Bone Thugz turned up their defense and scored four of their final seven baskets off steals. 
Bryan Good did most of the pick pocketing, as his long arms and quickness contin­ued to force turnovers and fast-break opportunities. But Lazy Sunday had trouble exe­cuting on offense all night, 
came out dressed with four men donned in suits and a lone point guard dressed in an adult diaper. 
The odds seemed to be stacked against the unortho­dox Four Men and a Baby team, as members smoked and lounged around before the game, while The Typical Newbs, practiced with lay-up and shot drills. 
Hunter  proved  to  be  too  
much for the Newbs.  
The  blue-collar and  old  

In the first half, it appeared that the suits and diaper restricted the shooters' range of motion, as Four Men and a Baby missed. The Typical Newbs quickly gained a size­able five-point lead early on. 
The rest is history. 
Four Men and a Baby point guard Andrew "The Diaper Dandy" Forero, went on fire and nailed several clutch shots. 
"I don't know what hap­pened," Forero said. "I just started feeling it. I was hit­tin' them baby hooks. Yeah, baby!" 
Forero led the team to an 11-8 lead at half. 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------' 
In the second half, The Typical Newbs appeared to regain momentum with a few well-placed shots. But the strong play of forward Zeb 
school style play of Oregon native Ryan McCune brought back memories of all-time Oregon greats Danny Ainge and Steve Prefontane. 
"On that court, some boys became men," said a teary­eyed Mike Hopkinson after the game. "And some men became babies. Period." 
A roaring crowd of specta­tors cheered wildly as Hunter hit the game-winning shot with his patented "peanut butter jelly" dance, as Four Men and a Baby came away with a 21-17 victory to advance to the next round. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu, Jay Fitzpatrick at jpitzpa5@nd.edu and Chris Williams at cwillill@nd.edu 

Come to Damon's Grill Every Friday 
For All-You-Can-Eat Fish $10.99 
Visit Our New Game Room With Pool Table 
www.damons.com (574) 272-5478 
52885 US 31/SR933 
we're going to lose 
in the next round," said Ortiz. "But if they play their game, they could go far." 
They All Said ... Jabroni 21, Rooster Blockers 2 
In a highly anticipated match up of two bookstore basketball titans, the mighty Rooster Blockers fell to the mightier They All Said ... Jabroni. 
Both teams played strong defense in the beginning. But the floodgates opened later as They All Said ... J abroni went on an 11-0 run before halftime. 
The Rooster Blockers appeared to have energy and enthusiasm throughout the game, but their lack of size and skill were ultimately their Achilles' heel. 
In the second half, the Jabronis continued to put up points with a 5-0 run. 
The biggest shift in momen­tum occurred when Rooster Blocker guard Tom "Cheese Whiz" Blanchette ­executed a textbook fade­away jumper. 
"I knew all those forearm workouts in the off season would pay off," he said. ''I really did." 
Rooster forward Will Marra answered on the next J abroni possession with an energy-charged block. 
"In Soviet Russia, Marra, how you say? Stuffed you!" Marra said after the game. 
The Rooster Blockers seemed poised to make a comeback when their shoot­ing guard, Eric "E-Rocker" Turner, netted an opportune basket. 
In the end, however, "They All Said ... Jabroni" squad finished the game with a 6-0 run and advanced to the next round. 
Four Men and a Baby 21, The Typical Newbs 17 It has been said, do not judge a book by its cover. 
This was the case in the game between Four men and a Baby and The Typical Newbs. While the Newbs came out dressed in athletic attire, Four Men and a Baby 

--------~---~-----~---~----~------~~------­
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, April 6, 2006 
ND SOFTBALL 
MLB 

Akron blows past streaking Irish 
Braves come back 
Zips' four-hitter nips NO's nine game run 
By DAN MURPHY SpomWritcr 

Notre Dame's nine-game win streak and its undefeated home record came to a halt Wednesday with a 4-2 loss to Akron, proving the motto that all good things must come to an end. 
Akron pitcher Megan Mackenzie led the Zips past the Irish for tlwir first loss at Ivy Fi1dd this season. Mackenzie registen~d hnr 13th corn plnte game of the season while holding Notre Dame's oiTense to just four hits ­three corning in the last inning.. 
"We didn't hit ball well all ganw." Notre Dame coach Doanna (;umpf said. "Early on, we didn't make any adjustnwnts and we pressed a lot at tlw end." 
Notre I>anw was unable to get a runner past first base until tho bottom of the sev­enth. After hitting the ball hard all day, Linda Kohan got one to drop in for a double that drove in two runs -her I Oth and 11th HBis this Sl~a­son. 
"The center l'ielder was making great plays all day long, tho bottom linn is we just havo to get things going earli­er in tho game." Kohan said. 
The Zips were able to get to Irish pitcher Brittney Bargar early -putting up three runs in the lop of' the third. The largest blow came when Akron second baseman .Jamie Scandil't ripped a two run double to the right center gap. The Akron rally came after Bargar struck out the first two batters of the inning. 
Akron struck again with two outs in the top of the fifth when right fielder Cali Stratton singled up the middle to get her second HBI of the game. The hit gave the Zips a 4-0 lead and ended Bargar's day. 
"She was flat and around the plate, when you come out like that you're bound to get hit." Cumpf said. 

Irish junior Kenya Fuemrneler came on in relief and did a solid job of holding thn Akron offense at bay for the remainder of the game. Fuemnwler gave up one weak hit in the seventh, but was otherwise unscathed in her 2 1-3 scoreless innings. 
"Kenya did a great job-we needed her to come in and slow things down and she did the job," Gumpf said. 
Despite a disappointing end, the eight-game homestand showed a lot of progress, especially on the mound. The staff only gave up four runs in South Bend, including two no­hitters and five shutout per­formances. 
According to Gumpf, the team will need to get back to the basics to continue their success on offense as well as defense. She is hoping that the team will be able to make bet-


DBLUXB Foorw• fACJAGi 
Notre Dame vs. USC Nov. 25th, 2006 
•2 GAME TICKETS 
•2 
AIRLINE TICKETS {AAJ O'HARE TO LAX 

•2 r\IGHTS HOTEl RESERVATIONS 

•GROLJ.\JD 
TRAVfl TO/fROM COIISFUM 


•C.ATERED RAllY THE fRIDAY 
NIGHT BEFORE THE GAM£ 
Total Package: 
$2,650 per reservation ((nf'ck or Cash) 
GO IRISH! 


to defeat Dodgers 
Langerhans steps up with eighth inning hit 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -Hyan Langerhans hit a two-out ground-rule double in the eighth to drive in the go-ahead run, and the Atlanta Braves beat the Los Angeles Dodgers 9-8 Wednesday night. 
Marcus Giles and Edgar Henteria drew two-out walks off Franquelis Osoria {0-1) before Langerhans, who entered the game in the sev­enth, hit a liner into the right­field corner that bounced into the stands. 
Oscar Villareal, who pitched out of a bases-loaded, one-out jam in the seventh, was the winner. Chris Heitsma, the sixth Atlanta pitcher, got the last five outs for his second save. 
The Dodgers, who blew an early 5-0 lead, scored three runs in the seventh to tie the game. The first scored on an error by shortstop Edgar Henteria, and Bill Mueller and Sandy Alomar .Jr. followed with HBI singles. 
Villareal, who relieved Mike Hemlinger and allowed Alomar's single, hit Jason Hepko with a pitch to load the bases before retiring pinch hit­ter Cody Hoss and Hal'ael Furcal. 
The Dodgers scored four runs in the first for the second straight game on RBI singles by .J.D. Drew and Mueller, a 
run-scoring double by Alomar 
and a sacrifice fly by Olmedo 
Saenz. 

Jose Cruz .Jr. hit a sacrifice 
fly in the second to make it 5­
0, but the Braves tied it against 
Odalis Perez in the third on an 
RBI double by Renteria, a sac­
rifice 11y by Matt Diaz, a run­
scoring single by Andruw 
.Jones and a two-run homer by 
Wilson Betemit. 

Atlanta took an 8-5 lead and 
chased Perez in the fourth, 
scoring on an HBI single by 
Renteria, a bases-loaded walk 
to Jones and a sacrifice fly by 
Jell" Francouer. 

Braves starter lloracio 
Hamirez allowed eight hits and 
live runs in three innings. lie 
Len in the fourth after straining 
his lnft hamstring while run­
ning out a bunt single. Perez 
gave up nine hits and seven 
runs in three-plus innings. 

The Dodgers, who already 
have Kenny Lofton and Nomar 
Garciaparra on the disabled 
list, lost Jeff Kent and Saenz 
during the game. 

Kent was lil'ted for a pinch 
hitter in the fourth because of 
the bruised left triceps he sus­
tained when hit by a pitch in 
the first, and Saenz came out 
in the l'il'th because of a stilT 
back. Neither injury is bfllieved 
to be serious. 

Atlanta's Chipper .Jones was 
held out of the game because ·of what manager Bobby Cox called "a little soreness in his stomach." The decision was made after Jones took batting 
practice. 

ter decisions at the plate. 
"You always have to go back to fundamentals when things are going well, that is what it's all about." said Kohan. 
After reloading, the Irish will look to begin a new win­ning streak this weekend as they take their undefeated Big East record on the road to face Syracuse and Pitt. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu. 

Only 200 Reservations AvJilal>le! 

Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: • Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 • Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 • Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 • John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 • Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 • Ann E. Kleva, Health Services, 1-8286 South Bend Community Resources: • Women's Care Center: 234-0363 • Catholic Charities: 234-3111  

Thursday, April 6, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Foote kic_ks off 10-1 start, tied for best in school history 
Senior attack tallies four goals to claim Irish career record; Byers dishes game-high three assists to beat Ohio State 
against Ohio State (1-9) in own -especially in the first 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Columbus -the team's best half. The Irish were able to 
Sports Writer 
start in school history. get more ground balls and Foote led all scorers in the draws while committing 
Notre Dame attack Christi game. Her four goals gave fewer turnovers than the Foote's four goals led the No. her 132 goals for her Notre Buckeyes. 10 Irish (10-1) to their third Dame career -moving past The Irish's ability to keep win in a row Wednesday 13-6 Danielle possession 
Shearer on of the ball 

the career­while keep­goal list. ing it out of Foote's the Buck­188 career eye's sticks points are was crucial also best to the early for second N o t r e all-time for Dame, who the Irish started the behind game with Danielle four unan­Shearer (196). swered goals by freshman 
Foote now has 45 goals for midfielder Jane Stoeckert, the season with five games sophomore midfielder Caitlin ·remaining, giving he.r time to McKinney and two by Foote. pass Lael O'Shaughnessy's The Irish took a 9-2 lead into 
single-season  the half and  
record (50). Notre Dame  "What we worked on  held it for the entire game.  
midfielder Mary Carpenter and attack Heather Ferguson each  in practice came out really well in the game, especially in the  "What we worked on in practice came out really well  
scored two goals  first half"  in the game,  
in  the  win.  especially in  
Freshman attack Jill Byers was shut out by  Tracy Coyne Irish head coach  the first half," Irish coach Tracy Coyne  
the  Buckeye's  said.  "Our  
defense, but led  execution  in  

the Irish with three assists. general was very good." 
Notre Dame played strong But Foote said the win throughout the game, limiting against Ohio State game was Ohio State's scoring opportu­a tale of two halves, with nities while capitalizing on its Notre Dame's performance 




TRY OUR NEW 
12
11 

VALUE CHEESE PIZZA 
Only $4.99· 
($1.00 for each additional topping.) 
Call 631-2924 for fast free delivery Delivery hours: 6pm-1 am 
Receive a $.99 2 liter Coke product with the purchase of a 12" Sbarro Value Pizza. 
Receive a Free 2 liter Coke product with the purchase of an 18" pizza. 
No coupon necessary. Offers good until 5/12/06. 


Not Valid with other offers or promotions. 
A-~J~V\UC. 1tal\aV\ 1a~te\ ~lt~~n~~~a~&~!~. !!g!S $ 
99
• Ham & Cheese • Chicken Club 
FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUS! 
Limited tfme offer. Prices, tax, delivery areas & charges may vary by

52750 IN 933 
locatton. Excludes other offers C:~ood at participating locations only. 
(N. of Cleveland Rd. ­Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's) 
574-243-1122 
Visit us on the Web at www.rnarcos.com C2006 Marco's Franchising, LLC 4831(1)-206 

faltering in the second half. tices that we can bring to the The Irish let in four goals field." while scoring only four after Despite a mediocre per­the break. formance in the second half, 
"We definitely did not play the Irish still managed to win as well in the second half as a hard-fought game against we did in the one of their big first," Foote rivals.
"We have been focused 
said. "We need "I am defi­
and committed all 
to be able to nitely happy to play consis­season long, and plan get out of there tently well for with win,"
to stay that way." 
all sixty min­Coyne said utes." after the game. Coyne was Tracy Coyne "[Ohio State] 
also very Irish head coach had everything impressed with to gain and her team's nothing to lose, ability to take but now we can what they had worked on this move on and focus on the week in practice and use it in games ahead of us." game situations, something Notre Dame's road trip will they focused on this spring. continue with a trip to 
"We have been focused and Durham to face No. 2 Duke committed all season long, this weekend. and plan to stay that way," Coyne said. "We have been Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at having very competitive prac-jfitzpa5@nd.edu. 

illi{OiiiAII~ZIT
Local Tradition Since 1975 
Call for Campus Delivery: 273-3890 or 


page 24 

Buck 
continued from page 28 

we had the potential I to have a great season I and are hoping to keep it up until the NCAA ITournamentl." 
In doubles, the Irish trailed early but won two of three matches to get out to a 1-0 lead in the match. The No. 4 duo of juniors Christian and Catrina Thompson downed the Wildcats' Fericl Esseghir and Alexis Prousis X-4 at No. 1. 
"We were down early in the doubles point because we arc used to them being aggressive and coming to the net, but today they were staying back and lobbing tlw ball more," Catrina Thompson said. "So we were the ones who had to be aggressive in order to get the win." 
The second win eame from Notrn Dame seniors Lauren Connelly and Kiki Stastny over Northwnstnrn's Nazlin Ghazal and .Jamie l'eisel X-5 at No. 3. The twosome now stands at IX-1 in dual action this season. 
Thn only loss in doubles came from tho No. 39 duo of Notrn Dame sophomorn Brook Buck and froshman Koley Tof'tt. 
The Irish pairing was defeat­ed by Aloxis Conill and (;eorgia Hose X-5 at No.2. 
In singlns, tho Irish found wins from Nos. 3, 4 and 5 to sncure the victory early on. 
The most impressivn win carne from Buck. who upset No. 24 Alexis Prousis 6-3, 6-3 at No. :{. Iter win was followed Tdll at No. 4 over .lamin Peisel 6-3, 6-1. Tefl't now holds a 14-4 rncord in duals matches. The final win came from Stastny at No. 5 who downed Esseghir 6­3, 6-0. 
The three losses came from the Irish's only two players ranked in singles. No. 30 Catrina Thompson lost to No. X Grier 6-2, 6-3 at No. 1. No. 73 Christian Thompson also failed to pull oil' the upset over No. 44 Hose 6-2, 3-6, 1-0 (1 0-X). 

The final loss came from Potts who was defeated by Nazlie Ghazal 6-3, 6-2. 
Despite the close win, Potts said the victory was not as emotional as other 4-3 contests in the past. The Irish were able to secure the victory early by winning the first four points in the match. 
The Observer + SPORTS 
"It was a hard fought match, but we jumped out in front 4-0 and it didn't come down to one final match," Potts said. "So emotionally it was a lot easier than some of the other match­es." 
The Irish take on DePaul Friday at 3:30 at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

Nine 

continued from page 28 
eighth save. 

Notre Dame starter Wade 
Korpi, whose last start was a 
complete-game shutout of 
Western Michigan March 29, 
threw 5 1-2 innings, allowing one 
run on three hits and striking out 
eight while registering a no deci­
sion. 

"[Korpi] wasn't quite as sharp 
as he was last week and he didn't 
have as much control of his 
changeup, so it was more of a 
struggle for him," Notre Dame 
head coach Paul Mainieri said. 
Overall, the Irish used l'ive 
pitchers, who allowed four runs 
on a combined eight hil'i. 

"That was by design," Mainieri said. "I wanted to use some of those guys because they haven't been on the mound for a whiln." 
Notre Dame lnd 3-1 going into the seventh but Ball State stormed back and took a 4-3 lead. Cardinals right l'ielder Justin Hogers led off the inning with a single and shortstop Eric Earnhardt followed by being hit by a pitch. Designated hitter Matt Gard laid down a sacrifice bunt to move the runners to second and third, and centerl'ielder Matt Sullivan drove them in to tie the game. 
Sullivan stole second and eateh­er Matt Singleton's singln brought him home. The ball rolled slowly between first and second base, where Brezovsky slipped and was slow getting to the ball. 
"I broke on the ball up the mid­dle and then [Irish reliever) Joey [Williamson! blocked the ball with his foot," Brezovsky said. "I slipped going baek the other way, and then [Notre Dame shortstop Gregl Lopez was yelling at me that the guy was going home so I just picked it up and threw it." 
The throw was late getting home and Sullivan was safe with the go-ahead run. Seeing the ball headnd home, Singleton took off for second. Irish catcher Sean Gaston stood up to throw, but Sullivan bumped into him and knocked the ball out of his hand. 
The umpires initially called both runners safe, but huddled and reconsidered after Mainieri stormed out of the dugout. 

GMATReview 6 Wednesdays April26 to May 31 6-10 p.m. $395 
Thursday, April 6, 2006 
'The guy was saf(J at the plate, 
then he was celebrating with his 
teammates and bumped into our 
catcher," Mainieri said. "It was a 
no-brainer. It had to be interfer­
ence." 

The umpires ruled intnrference on Sullivan and called Singleton out for the second out of the inning, killing the Cardinal rally. 
Notre Dame wasted no time 
coming back, scoring three runs 
in the bottom of the inning. Irish 
rightfielder Danny Dressman 
walked and was driven in by a 
game-tying double by leftlielder 
Matt Bransfield. 

Brezovsky then hit a curvn ball by Ball State lefthander Kory Bucklow over the right field fence to give the Irish a two-run lead they wouldn't relinquish. 
"I think he was trying to throw it away, but he hung it inside and I just turned on it," Brezovsky said of tJu1 pitch. 
The win was the seeond time in three games Notre Dame has come back after falling behind in the previous half-inning. Sunday against Pittsburgh, the Panthers scomd thren runs in the ninth to take an 8-7 lead, but Irish desig­nated hitter Jeremy Barnes drove in the game winning runs with a single in the bottom of the inning. 
"You have to have high charac:­ter kids to be able to Itake the lead right backl." Mainieri said. "Plus, when you do it -it builds confidence that you can come back after giving up a lead." 
Notre Dame struck first Wednesday, scoring twice with two outs in the second inning and then extnndnd tJ1eir lead to 3-0 in the fifth on an HBI double by Barnes. 
The Cardinals cut into the lead in the top of the sixth. Centerfielder Mike Sullivan start­ed the inning with a walk, stole second and seored on a single by third ba'ieman C.J Webb. The run was the first allowed by Korpi in 15 innings, dating back to a start against Iowa March 13. 
Notre Dame will travel to Tampa, Fla. this weekend to take on South Florida in a three-game Big East series. The Irish and Bulls have not played since 2001 when South Florida won 6-1 at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 



FACTOR 

Stop In and Register to Win! 
1710 E. Turtlecreek Drive South Bend, Indiana 
Drawing held on 03/31/06 


WE'VE GOT THE 
TURTLE CREEK 



APARTMENTS 
Xtremely Close to Campus Xciting Renovations Inside &Out Xtraordinary Rents Start At $560* 
888-278-8124 
GET GEARED UP! 
We're giving away anewl>ox 360 
Go Home...Go Wireless...Go Livel 
Office Hours: 


LSAT Review 4 Saturdays 
April 29 to May 20 8 a.m. -noon $324 

GREReview 7 Wednesday May 10-June 21 6-10 p.m. $449 
Mention this ad and get a 5% discount. Division of Extended Learning Services IU South Bend 
Call574-520-4261 to enroll or visit www.iusb.edu/-cted 
M-F: 9:00 AM-S:OO PM 
Saturday: 10:00 AM-5:00PM 1:00 PM-5:00 PM
www.campuscribs.net 
Thursday, April 6, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
making any rash judgments like Mitehell Thomas is our
Football 
starting middle linebaeker, but continued from page 28 the reason why he was run­
ning first is beeause he was baek~r last season -both running best. play~rs have sat out mueh of "You don't run anybody out the spring due to injuries. But there first beeause you're pat­Weis said their absenees have ting them on the back and allowed other linebaekers to saying, 'Hey, it's your turn eompete for a today, buddy."' position. Weis said he
"I think it's 
"It lets you get a likes what he has
important to make
look at some peo­seen from his ple who might sure, first things young safeties ­have gotten a lot who are compet­
first, to eliminate
lnss r~ps, and I ing against
communication
think that that's a returning starters telling tale," Weis errors on defense. " Chinedum said. "All of a sud­Ndukwe and Tom d~n you're saying Zbikowski.
Charlie Weis 
hey, !Crum's] not "We've been 
Irish coach 
in here, very pleased, ­I Broekington 's] not almost surprising­in here, who's going to win ly pleased with the play of these battles, who wants these [freshman] Ray Herring and spots. Ifreshman] David Bruton." 
Notre Dame sophomore Weis said. Anthony Vernaglia, junior Notre Dame has opted. to Mitehell Thomas and fresh­simplify the defensive play­man Steve Quinn have been book in hopes that communi­playing as the first team line­eation mistakes will be mini­baekers, but Weis indieated mized as it looks for new con­that eould ehange as the tributors. spring progresses. "When you're going through 
"I don't think just beeause the spring and a number of the first group was out [there] guys are rolling through, it's first, to eliminate communiea­!Aldridge] is already here has advanced and progressed and the seeond group was out just not 11,12,13 guys you're tion errors on defense." [and] by the way, he was run­mueh quicker than a year ago. Ithere I. that anything is etehed not playing out there, its 30," On offense, Notre Dame is ning around pretty good the "I think that's natural in all in stone," Weis said. "I think Weis said. "I think it's impor­still finding a replacement for other day," Weis said. "What facets of our team. I think it's it'd be pretty premature to be tant to make sure, first things departing senior right tackle do you do with these guys? natural on offense and defense 
Mark Levoir. Irish senior Brian You don't want bring them in and special teams," he said. Mattes and freshmen Paul here and not have a plan." ''I'm finding on both sides of Duncan and Michael With junior Jeff Samardzija the ball [that], with the guys Turkovich have been working devoting time to the baseball who have played before, !pro­at the position. team, Weis seemed unenthusi­gression] has been pretty 
"If Brian Mattes hadn't been astic about his receiving corps good." banged up to start the eamp, -except for senior Hhema just by seniority, we would McKnight. McKnight is return­Notes: have given him the first shot ing after missing most of last + Notre Dame walk-on at right tackle," Weis said. season with a knee injury. sophomore Wade lams has "But since he missed some "I don't think any of them been in the mix returning stuff early on, it gave both have stood out enough for me kickoffs for Notre Dame in Paul Duncan and Mike to go out of my way and say practice. Turkovic an opportunity to yeah, I'm fired up about so­"I think you got to keep on both kinda play that position." and so," Weis said. "''m fired putting people out there and 
Duncan has seen more up about Rhema, how about giving them reps and try to action than his two teammates that?" find the ones that eventually this spring, but Weis said Special teams remain more that give you the most yardage there was a long way to go of an issue than offense or out of it," Weis said. before he would decide on a defense since the team has + Freshman safety Kyle starter. only practiced outside in McCarthy is being held from 
"I would not anoint [Duncan] game-like weather twice this contaet drills due to injury. the starting right tackle at this spring. "He's doing everything else point," he said. "When the "Though it's more realistic full speed, but we're not let­spring's over, we'll evaluate to how games are going to be ting him hit as much as those where we are right now, and played, its not an idealistic other guys," Weis said. when the freshmen come in, way to come out of the box on + Weis and his coaching we'll slot them in there, and special teams, so I don't jump staff will hold a coaching clin­may the best man win." to any rash conclusions as far ic for the second straight sea­
Weis also discussed his as specialists go," Weis said. "I son on April 7 and 8. One young prospects at running think the more we get outside, thousand coaches will attend, back that will compete against the more the kickers can be representing high sehools returning starter Darius turned loose and we can be from 28 states and three Walker. Walker rushed for able to judge that a little bit Canadian provinees. 1,274 yards last season. more." 
"I got three running backs In his second spring prac­Contact Eric Retter at coming in this year -James tice, Weis notieed the team eretter@nd.edu 


SMC GOLF 
Belles take second straight title in tournament 
Mattia shoots record score at Foxfire course  to a strong start despite tough conditions and led the field after the first day. "On Friday the course was  360 to record a 334 -win­ning by 25 strokes. Otterbein (719) finished in seeond place and  score on the 5,981-yard, par­72 course, which is 40 yards longer than the Players Course where the  Fantom said the "prepara­tion, determination, and will of the team" contributed to they players' ·consistent per­ 
By BECKI DORNER Sports Writer  playing tough," Saint Mary's senior Megan Mattia said. "It was raining and there were  Ohio Northern University (735) took third place.  "Despite our overall difficulty on  first round was played. Otterbein  formances. Fantom finished sixth overall (174), Saint Mary's freshman Alex Sei fin­ 
The Belles shot a tourna­ment-record 334 at the Foxfire Golf Club of Ohio in  really strong winds." But the Belles remained confident despite the elemen­tal hardships.  Baldwin-Wallace Colleoge (781) fin­ished fourth and Wilmington  the first day, we went out Saturday knowing we could  College's Rustie Anderson earned second place with a 167 (87, 80).  ished 13th (185) and Saint Mary's senior Nicole Bellino tied for 17th (187). The Belles remain focused  
Saturday's final round to win their second straight champi­ "Despite our overall diffi­culty on the first day, we  College rounded  (796) out the  play better."  while her team­mate Katie  and are already preparing for the upcoming match at  
onship in the Capital University Purple & White Invitational.  went out Saturday knowing we could play better," Saint Mary's captain Kirsten  top five. Mattia carded a Foxfire course  Kirsten Fantom Belles co-captain  Johnson (89, 81) and first round leader O'Brien  Illinois Wesleyan University. "We are excited about going to IWU next weekend," Mattia  
The Belles are the second  Fantom said. " ... [We were]  reeord 77 on the  (83, 87) tied for  said. "We know the course  
team  to  win  back-to-hack  approaching the round  one  second day to lead  third at 170. Two­ really well so  we  have high  
events in the tournament's  shot at a time."  Saint Mary's and her two-day  time  defending  medalist  expectations."  
seven-year history.  On the second day, Saint  total of 165 gave her Medalist  Colleen Groomes (Otterbein)  
Saint  Mary's sophomore  Mary's improved 26 strokes  honors.  finished in fifth with  a  171  Contact Becki Domer at  
Katie O'Brien got the team off  on  their first round total of  Mattia  shot  her  record  (87 -84).  rdomer@nd.edu  

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 6, 2006 
Duffy 
continued from page 28 
college snniors Monday. 
"I feel that I played well [in the workouts!," Duffy said. "I just kind of stuck to my game and conenntrated on playing good defense and running the teams out there." 
Duffy averaged 15.7 points and 4. I assists per game in her senior season and was seventh in the Big East in steals (2.03 per game). Her collegiate career ended March 1!J with Notre Dame's 7X-61 loss to Boston College in the first round of the NC/\1\ Tournament at Mackey /\rena in West Lafayette, Ind. She scored 15 points on 6-of-15 shooting in the loss. 
Duffy became the sixth Notrn Dame player selected in thn draft since 2001 ­and the second taken by Minnnsota. Last year, the Lynx drafted Duffy's former teammate and Notre Dame alumnae .Jacqueline Batteast. The forward played in just night games last sea­son, accumulating six rebounds and three assists in 46 minutes or play. 
Minnesota traded Batteast to the Detroit Shock Wednesday for Ambrosia 1\ndnrson. a se1:ond-round piek out of BYU. 
The Miami Sol draftnd for­mer Notrn Dame center Huth Hiley in thn first round of the 2001 draft, and Irish guard Niele lvey went to the Indiana Fever in the seeond round that year. 


ALLISON AMBROSEfThe Observer 

Notre Dame guard Megan Duffy, a third-round selection in the 2006 WNBA Draft, drives to the basket In a 79-64 loss to Connecticut on Jan. 17. 
Former Notre Dame for­Batteast in the second round selection to the All-Big East ward Kelley Siemon was the last year. first team this year and won third Irish player selected in Duffy finished her career the Frances Pomeroy 2001, going to the Los with an .859 free-throw per­Naismith Award -given Angeles Sparks in the third centage -second overall in annually to the nation's best round. Irish history and No. 15 all­senior shorter than 5-foot-8. 
The Detroit Shock selected time in the NCAA -and led Irish guard Ericka Haney in the conference in the catego­Contact Ken Fowler at third round of the 2002 ry in 2005-06 (.888). kfowlerl@nd.edu and Eric Draft, and the Lynx took She was a unanimous Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

Bender 
continued from page 28 

excel both on the eourt and in the dassroom, and will valun the mi<;sion of Saint Mary's College," Kachmarik said. 'The new coach must al'>o undnr­stand the framework of college athlet­ics and the governing groups that impaet college athletics . . . in our ca<;e the NC!\i\ <md MIM." 
Saint Mary's Director of Public Information Melanie McDonald has said the Collnge cannot eomment on the details of the decision not to renew Bender's contract beeausn it i'> a per­sonnel issue. 
Bender, who led Saint Mary's to an 11-15 record (9-7 in the MIM), coach­es tenni<; at Buchanan High School in his hometown of Buchanan, Mich. Saint Mary's nine league wins this sea­son were a program record. Bender went on vacation thi'l week and wa'l unavailable lor eomrnent Wednesday. 
Kaehmarik infonnnd players of the decision Friday. Several players met with Saint Mary's Presidnnt Carol i\nn Mooney Monday, said a member of the team who wished to remain anony­mous. 
"Whenever there is a change in coaching staff, particularly the head coach, there will be an impact," Kaehmarik said. "Everyone involved will have some adjusting to do. Student athletes are resilient, however, and wn are eonfident that they will continue to be dedicated, engaged Saint Mary's athletes who are committed to excel­lence on and off the court." 
Bender replar.ed Suzanne Bellina a<; Belles head coaeh this season. Bellina coached Saint Mary's li)r five seasons from 2000-01 through 2004-05, lead­ing the Belles to a 41-87 record overall record with a 17-55 eonfi1rence mark. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd.edu 


• • 
• • 

Check on your drinking behaviors! 
Instant Prizes 
• 
Gift certificates 

• 
Gift cards 



• Other fun stuff A Chance to WIN 
NEW IPOD VIDEO 


~-~~--­

Thursday, April 6, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
ALEC WHITE and ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 
Also Saint Mary's is t e A&E 
best Liberal arts college in the Midwest. while Notre Dame is only 17th 
among universities 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

CROISSANTWORLD 
HENRI ARNOLD


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJ(!J~:,Jllilliffi
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
But, Ms. Thistlewood, this area was supposed to be a lounge
one letter to each square, 

to form four ordinary words. We needed mom for more books
HIEWL 
I I I tJ 
02005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. AU Rights Reserved. 
YEDIT 
riJ
tNOVISI 
WHAT THE L-IBRARIAN DID TO THE: RE:MODE=L-ING
www.jumble.com 

PL-AN. BAHFLE 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
1 
rJ 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 

'l I I I I I I)" IT 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: LILAC PAYEE SINFUL BROOCH 
Yesterday's Answer: Why the blond newscaster moderated the debate-SHE WAS "FAIR" 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 40 Toshiba rival 70 Curse Eliminates, 42 ''The First 71 Red Cross gangster-style 43 Threatened supply 5 ''The Jungle 45 Submerge 72 Snoopy Book" hero 
47 Call, as a game11 Can 
DOWN 14 2003 Pulitzer 
48 Usable 

connector for 1 "As seen Prize-winning 
oxen? 2 Can dramatist Cruz 
51 Sugar_ of 3 Out of fizz 15 Noted resting "Some Like It 4 Lenient type place Hot" 5 Printemps 16 Breakfast buffet 
52 Tavern owner on 

monthdispenser 
"The Simpsons" 

6 Shamu, for one17 Deal in sweet 53 Prominent 7 "We have ourtubers? 
56 "Funky Cold 19 "Awesome!" 

Medina" rapper 

a Former N.Y.S.E. 
20 Classic muscle Tone chairman car, for short 59 Queen's request Richard21 Fool 
63 Three-time 9 Flee 22 Signs off on 
Frazier 10 ''That's all she24 Martinique, e.g. opponent 

wrote" 26 Put away 64 Gagarin's space 
11 A president 28 Long teenage flight? 
usually has one conversations? 67 Holy Trinity part 
12 Look inside? 34 Sneaky laugh 68 Bob who wrote 
13 Purposes36 Kind of sax "Catcher in the 
18 ''The Most 37 Knickknack Wry" 
Happy_"38 ''The Dukes of 69 Uzbekistan's 
(LoesserHazzard" spinoff Sea 
musical) 23 Enter, as a ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE password 25 Shiny wallet 
material 27 Head to toe 28 Birch of 
"American Beauty" 29 School carnival planner, 

perhaps: Abbr. 30 Civic-minded 
company? 31 Earlier 32 ''The Mocker 
Mocked" artist 33 "Note to 34 Old jalopy 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 
61 The Cenozoic Dance" partner 54 Shaving gel and others 
ingredient44 Fledgling 62 Easter sight 

company 55 Bringer of 

65 Sem. topic46 Offbeat misfortune 
66 Item with an 49 Toyota coupe 57 Acorn droppers underwire 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City ______________ State ____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST 


HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Agnetha Faltskog, 56; Colin Powell, 69; Marshall Allman, 22 
Happy Birthday: A little will go a long way this year. Hone your skills and focus on what's truly important. You've spent too many years spreading yourself too thin. It's your turn to grow in directions you have only dreamed about in the past. Your numbers are 12, 15, 25, 19, 33, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You may feel as if everyone is out to get you today. Stay busy and don't dwell on little innuendoes people make. Do not jump into a personal investment without doing your homework. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Plan your next vacation or get together with someone who always lifts your spirits. Taking care of personal business will ease your stress and leave you open to new things. Love and romance are looking good, so don't miss out. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Keep your eyes open for a better position and look at the possibilities that will lead to your making more cash. Someone you used to work with will be able to help you out. Contact anyone you feel can be to your advantage. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will have a tendency to be overindulgent but, if you are having fun, enjoy with the intent to get back on track tomorrow. Do your own thing and avoid taking on other people's responsibilities. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Disagreements with authority figures can be expected if you don't abide by the rules. Try hard not to create unnecessary friction or exaggerate a situation. Work at home and avoid dealing with others and you will get the most done. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your heart is in the right place and your generosity welcomed. If someone has a sob story, listen but don't give handouts. A partnership is looking especially good. You have the chance to get something you've been thinking about starting oft the ground. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Opportunities to learn are looking good. There will be lots of action going on around you. Socializing will help you meet someone extraordinary. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You are in a high creative cycle. A chance to work with someone you admire will amplify your own talent. Don't let someone's jealousy stand in your way. Today is about you and your work. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Pay off any personal debts or work out a deal to make your payments more manageable. A problem with someone close to you will worsen if you keep avoiding the complaints being made. 3 
stars 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Emotional matters will perplex you. Take time to focus on work, money and what you need to do to make more. An opportunity to use an idea you had a long time ago will surface. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Concentrate on yourself, your health and your emotional well being today. It's time to figure out what will work best for you instead of doing what everyone else wants you to do. Change is needed so make your choices and proceed. You can get ahead if you take on more responsibility. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Keep things low key today. You can make money through smart investments, a tax rebate or insurance surrender. 5 
stars 

Birthday Baby: You are curious, questioning and quite engaging. Your intense way of observing others gives you an edge with issues of human nature. You are astute, intuitive and can manipulate any situation you face. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenia last. com for confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
> 
·--~ --~-­
THE OBSERVER 






PORTS
Thursday, April 6, 2006 
page 28 
< 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Duffy selected in third round of WNBA draft 
to go in the first round, Duffy name and [said] they wanted Thorburn at No. 7 overall. of up for grabs of who's goingBy KEN FOWLER and fell to the No. 31 pick overall me on their team." Duffy will compete with to make it. ... It'll be an excit­ERIC RETTER 
in the draft. With the first overall pick in Augustus, Thorburn and ing, competitive training Sports Writers 
"Obviously it was a little the draft, Minnesota took two­returning Lynx players for a camp, and I'm just thankful to nerve-racking, sitting there time Associated Press national spot on the active roster dur­have the opportunity to go up 
The Minnesota Lynx selected for a few hours and not hear­player of the year Seimone ing Minnesota's training camp, to Minnesota." Notre Dame senior point ing your name," Duffy said Augustus, a 6-foot-1 shooting which begins April 23. Minnesota and the 13 other guard Megan Duffy in the Wednesday in a telephone guard from Louisiana State. "I think I have a really good teams of the WNBA held pre­third round of the WNBA Draft interview with The Observer. The Lynx used their second situation in Minnesota draft workouts with about 40 in Boston Wednesday. "But I was just really excited first-round selection to draft because they need a point 
Expected by many analysts when Minnesota called my Utah point guard Shona guard," Duffy said. ''It's kind see DUFFY/page 26 
BASEBALL 

Ball State latest to fall in wake ofIrish streak 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associare Sporrs Editor 

Notre Dame second baseman Ross Brezovsky broke a 4-4 tie in the bottom of the seventh with a two-run home run that put the Irish ahead for good against Ball State Wednesday at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Notre Dame (19-8, 5-1 in the Big East) earned their ninth straight vktory with the 6-4 win, while the Cardinals (15-12, 5-1 in the MAC) saw their eight-game winning streak snapped. 
Notre Dame junior Mike Dury earned his second win of the sea­son in relief for the Irish. and freshman closer Kyle Weiland got two outs in the ninth for his 
see NINE/page 24 
Nine is fine 
ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 
At left, Irish catcher Cody Rizzo receives a pitch Wednesday. At right, Notre Dame first baseman Craig Cooper anticipates a ground ball. 
SMC BASKETBALL 
College to search for new coach 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 

Saint Mary's athletic director Lynn Kachmarik said in a state­ment released to the Observer Wednesday the search for a new 
head coach to replace Steve Bender, whose contract was not renewed after his first season, will "begin immedi­ately." 
"It's impor­


tant to find Bender someone who will inspire the student athletes to 
see BENDER/page 25 
FOOTBALL 


Backups have chance to shine in spring play 
Weis observes progress in various players 
By ERIC RETTER A<Sociate Sports Editor 

After two weeks of practice, Notre Dame head coach Charlie Weis' message regard­ing his team's progression was thil same as it was during his first spring press conference March 21 -it's too early to tell. 
"I think that there's some guys that are making signifi­cant progress, it's just too early to tell halfway through spring, too early to tell who's going to step up when you're going full speed," Weis said. "That full speed will come into fruition more when we get into a couple scrimmage situ­ations with the culmination of spring." 
One area Notre Dame has especially looked for players to emerge has been in the linebacker position, where the Irish lost seniors Brandon lloyte and Corey Mays. 
Though Notre Dame returns junior Joe Brockington and sophomore Maurice Crum, Jr. -who started at Apache line-
see FOOTBALL/page 25 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 


Buck clinches win for Irish 
Northwestern loses 4-2 to Notre Dame 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 

In a battle between two of the nation's top programs, No. 2 Notre Dame (19-ll managed to pull out a close 4-3 decision over No. 9 Northwestern on Wednesday at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
"It was a really big win and we needed a big confidence booster going into the next cou­ple of matches and the Big East [Tournament]," Irish freshman Katie Potts said. "We all knew 
see BUCK/page 24 

en 
NO SOFTBAll
SMC GOLF 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
BOOKSTORE 
NHL 
MLB 
LLI

1-
(.) Belles take first 
Notre Dame 13 
Akron 4 
Reds 8

Ja~r leads team
Bone Th~ 21 
Lazy Sun ay 8

z in tournament 
Notre Dame 2 

an MVP race
Ohio State 6 
Cubs 6



a: s 

Saint Mary's won the 
Irish attack Crysti 
Excellent pitching 
Seven unanswered 

Rangers forward 
Cincinnati center 
Purple and White 
Foote led all scorers with 
helped the Zips end 
points, scored off 

Jaromir Jagr is now a 
fielder Ken Griffey Jr. 
Tournament at the 
four goals in a decisive 
Notre Dame's perfect 
aggressive defense gave 

favorite for the league 
passed Joe DiMaggio in 
== Foxfire Golf Club of 
Irish victory. 
home record. 
Bone Thugz the win. 

MVPaward. 
career home runs. 
a..~ 
Ohio.

en page 25 
page 23 
page 21 
page 19

page 23 
page 16 
Thursday, April 6, 2006 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 3 
Committee to fight violence against women 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
Responding to two months of debate surrounding "The Vagina Monologues" that magnified the issue of violence against women on Notre Dame's campus, University President Father John Jenkins said Wednesday he will form a University ad hoc committee to address the issue. 
The committee is one of three initiatives -the others being a student-written production enti­tled "Loyal Daughters" and departmental guidelines for sponsoring academic events ­outlined in Jenkins' dosing statement on academic freedom and Catholic character Wednesday. 
Jenkins will chair the commit­tee, which will include adminis­trators, faculty and students. 
The group will be "charged with fostering a wide-ranging discussion of gender relations, roles, and ways to prevent vio­lence against women," accord­ing to Jenkins' statement. 
"In many conversations with students and faculty, it was clear to me that it's important to address issues about and of con­cern to women in a way that's thoughtful, that's responsible, that addresses those questions," Jenkins told The Observer Wednesday afternoon. 
"I really want to have a con­versation that doesn't include people of just one point of view, but includes people of a variety of points of view to come togeth­er and have a serious conversa­tion about those issues, to enhance and advance that con­versation." 
Jenkins said he personally selected the committee's mem­hers, such as Vice President and Associate Provost Jean Ann Linney. 
Linney said Wednesday she believed the committee was put together to "reflect the range of perspectives on campus and also to reflect different roles on campus." 
She believed the committee would first "formulate ways" to address problems of gender relations and violence against women, then strive to see those ways "translated to activities and actions." 
While Linney did not know of the committee's official title or if the first meeting had been scheduled, she said her secre­tary may have received the information. 
History professor Gail Bederman said she was also asked by Jenkins to serve on the committee. 
"I just found out who was on it in the statement," Bederman said. "In terms of what he has in mind, he says what it's going to be about in the statement." 
Emily Weisbecker, a junior and co-organizer of this year's "Monologues" production, said she was not apprehensive about serving alongside top adminis­trators and faculty members. 
"I would have been before," Weisbecker said. "I wasn't sure the first time I met with Jenkins. Now that I've met with nim I feel much more comfortable.... I'm definitely ready for that kind of group. Not intimidated." 
The other administrators that will serve on the committee are Associate Vice President of Student Affairs Ann Firth. Director of the Gender Relations Center Heather Rakoczy and Executive Assistant to the President Frances Shavers. 
Besides Bederman, theology department chair John Cavadini, law school and theolo­gy professor M. Cathleen Kaveny, anthropology professor Carolyn Nordstrom, Associate Dean of the College of Arts and Letters Dayle Seidenspinner­Nunez, accountancy specialist Margot O'Brien, Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters Ava Preacher and art professor Kathleen Pyne will form the faculty contingent. 
Jenkins has also selected stu­dents in addition to Weisbecker. 
Graduate student Alexandre Chapeaux, junior Gregory Floyd, junior Madison Liddy, sopho­more Madeleine Ryland and jun­ior Danielle Thomson will be members of the ad hoc commit­tee. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 


'Vagina Monologues' organizers focus on future plans 
of "Loyal Daughters" would be "The Vagina Monologues" would 
By KAREN LANGLEY treated as an academic event and have to make a presentation to an 
Associate News Editor could not be used to raise funds. academic department. 
"That's the only thing we dis­"Those who are interested in 
"The Vagina Monologues" may agree with," Redfield said. putting on 'Loyal Daughters' are be here to stay -unless Notre Redfield said past interested in working on that, and Dame's own "Loyal Daughters" "Monologues" organizers have that's what we've talked about," replaces it. tentatively planned a fundraiser he told The Observer Wednesday. 
Student organizers of past gala to replace the $15,000 that "But we haven't considered any "Monologues" productions at the production traditionally raised proposal about 'The Vagina Notre Dame reacted enthusiasti­annually for local women's chari­Monologues."' cally to the release of University ties. For now, the organizers are President Father John Jenkins' Weisbecker began the project totally committed to the develop­closing statement on academic this fall and has completed 20 of ment and production of "Loyal freedom Wednesday. 50 planned interviews with male Daughters," said Madison Liddy, 
Jenkins said "The Vagina and female students and a few this year's director of "The Vagina Monologues" may continue on faculty members. Her research -Monologues." campus as an academic event, funded by a UROP grant -is "We are going to put all our but organizers said their own focused on women's experiences efforts into 'Loyal Daughters,' so I decision to further produce the at Notre Dame, including sexuali­really hope it succeeds," she said. "Monologues" will depend upon ty and sexual assault but also "That's my goal for now." the November debut of "Loyal related issues like alcohol and Weisbecker and Liddy will both Daughters," a yet-to-be-written, mental health. serve on the ad hoc committee Notre Dame-specific play that "I believe very strongly that Jenkins has convened to address they hope will strike a personal when you come across difficult gender relations and violence note with audiences. issues, it is important to encour­against women. 
"There are complaints that The age more discussion instead of Both her work with the Vagina Monologues' are divisive backing away," Weisbecker said. "Monologues" and her personal because of the political aspect," "It's obvfous 'The Vagina experience have prepared said Emily Weisbecker, an organ­Monologues' does not communi­Weisbecker to undertake the izer of the 2006 "Monologues" cate with everyone. I think it is research and writing of "Loyal who is researching and writing important to come across from Daughters." "Loyal Daughters." "I want to different directions." ''I'm very passionate about this bring the stories of actual Notre The play's form will depend in issue and I have a commitment to Dame students and bring it closer part on the material gathered in making things happen," she said. to home." the interviews, Weisbecker said. "I was sexually assaulted on cam­
Weisbecker said she and past After the November performance pus as a freshman [and] it gives process to provide resources and said "acknowledge[s] Catholicism "Monologues" organizer Kaitlyn of "Loyal Daughters," its organiz­me a whole different perspective support in cases of sexual assault, isn't going to be threatened" by Redfield told Father Jenkins ers will decide whether their mes­to approach this from." NDSP director Phil Johnson said controversial performances like about their idea for Loyal sage about women's sexuality and Her interviews for "Loyal Wednesday. "The Vagina Monologues." Daughters at a meeting immedi­sexual assault has been delivered Daughters" have shown het that "It is our hope that victims of "It creates a much better ately before his Jan. 23 address to or if a production of "The Vagina people sometimes deny sexual sexual assault will stand together atmosphere both for women and the faculty on academic freedom Monologues" is needed. assault when it occurs, she said, and report the crime so we can campus and for people who dis­and Catholic character. Jenkins did not specify to which points to one of the play's address this important matter," agree with parts of Catholicism 
"I think it was courageous of Weisbecker or the other organiz­goals -awareness. Johnson said. "But we respect at but have reasonable opinions and him to meet with us," Redfield ers how frequently "The Vagina "People have to know [sexual any point a victim's decision not goals, to allow those people to said. "He was obviously truthful Monologues" could be performed assault] is not okay, and they have to go forth." express themselves at this in his request for dialogue." on campus, she said. a right to turn that person is," she After three years of organizing University," she said. 
Jenkins was enthusiastic about Under the guidelines outlined in said. "The Vagina Monologues," the idea, Weisbecker said, but he his statement, Jenkins said stu­Notre Dame Security/Police Redfield praised the language in Contact Karen Langley at made it clear that a performance dents interested in performing (NDSP) engages in a victim-driven Jenkins' statement, which she klanglel@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + IN FOCUS Thursday, April 6, 2006 
Other Catholic universities weigh in on policy 
Jenkins said he still believes dent for Public Relations at the the play. in sponsoring the production. 
Religious institutions 
the production's "portrayals of University of' Dayton, said the The statement said Marquette's In February 2005, the Cardinal vary in guidelines sexuality stand apart from, and school "believe[sl that a Catholic Offiee of Student Affairs advised Newman Sodety -an organiza­indeed in opposition to, Catholic university is a place of dialogue." two students that alternative tion dedicated to "renewing and and reactions to ND teaching on sexuality," but main­A'i a result, she said the univer­ways of promoting awareness strengthening the Catholic identi­tained the Church has "nothing sity has "supported students' about "the serious issue of vio­ty" of colleges in the United to fear from engaging the wider right<> to stage the play and draw lence against women" should be States-issued a statement ask­By KATIE PERRY culture"-an attitude that dose­attention to the larger issue of emphasized, rather than per­ing Catholic women to condemn Assistalll News Editor ly parallels that of Georgetown. violence against women." formances of "The Vagina "The Vagina Monologues" at "As an academic community "Like Notre Dame, the Monologues." schools affiliated with the 
While peer Catholic institutions committed to the free exchange University of Dayton has con­Father Andy Thon, vice presi­Church. were reluctant to praise or pass of ideas, it is important that stu­cerns about some of the material dent for Student Affairs, met with Notre Dame's present stance judgment on Notre Dame's dents, faculty and staff at in the play," Rizvi said. "When students on Feb. 14 and said reflects the approaeh to the issue understanding of tlw relationship Georgetown are able to engage in students did stage ["The Vagina while the University "unequivo­of academic freedom and between academic freedom and dialogue on Monologues"]. cally supports Catholic Catholic character -as outlined important issues they ran a number efforts by student character in University President Father of the day," "Like Notre Dame, the of educational groups and uni­"Georgetown University outlined in John Jenkins statement Smulson said. University ofDayton forums to address versity offices to does not endorse the the 1967 Wednesday -college spokesper­For three has concerns about the serious socie­address any views presented in The "Land 0' sons said the same discussion years, students tal issue of vio­instances of vio­Lakes" state­
some ofthe material Vagina Monologues,· but 
ha.'i permeated campuses nation­performed "The lence against lence against ment.
in the play. ,,

wide. Vagina women." women," he still respects the rights of T h e "I am very determined that we Monologues" at Notre Dame ran had several con­students to do so.,, assembly of not suppress spPech on this cam­the University of Terl Rlzvi a similar series of cerns about per­Catholic uni­pus," Jenkins said in the state­Dayton, where associate vice president discussions this formances of the versity lead­
Erik Smulson 

ment. "I am also determined that the production February to paral­play on campus. ers that cre­
stirred contro-Public Relations
we mwer suppress or nPgled the lel its own show­His first con­assistant vice president ated the c;ospnl that inspired this versy in the col­University of Dayton ings of the "The cern, Thon said, Communications statement University." lege community. Vagina was the "short asserted that
Georgetown University 
A number of parallels link the This year, students wrote and Monologues." time frame" universities situation at Notre Dame to that of performed an original production But not all Catholic universities before the pro-"must have othPr Catholic univPrsitics. -"UD Monologues" -that tolerate the play. posed March production date a true autonomy and academic 
I•:rik Smulson. assistant vice adapted the premise of' the for­In March, Marquette University that "precludefdl the educational freedom in the face of authority president for Communications at mer play to fit student experi­joined nearly a dozen other uni­dialogue that needs to precede of whatever kind, lay or. clerieal, Georgetown University, said ences at the University. versities and forbade production such an activity." external or the academic com­Ceorgetown has a similar posi­On Wednesday, Jenkins said of "The Vagina Monologues," on Thon also said there were "bet­munity it<>elf." tion on pnrf'orrnances of the con­student leaders of "The Vagina its campus. ter ways" to address the issue of Leaders also urged universities troversial play on it'i campus. Monologues" have proposed pro­Mary Pat Pfeil, senior director women's violence at Marquette. to uphold a "perceptively present 
"Georgetown University dons ducing their own play entitled of University Communication at The focus should be on the sub­and effectively operative" not endorse the views presentP.d "Loyal Daughters," which would Marquette, declined comment stantive issue, rather than debate Catholic character. in 'Tiw Vagina Monologues,' but inte!-,'l'ate their own experiences Wednesday but referred to a pre­over a particular play, he said. rnspeets the right'i of student<; to at the University. vious statement issued by the Furthermore, he said two aea­Contact Katie Perry at qo so,'' he said. Teri Hizvi, assoeiate vice presi-school during its own debate over demic departments had no desire kperry5@nd.edu 

•1 THINK ITS A MEASURED STATEMENT AND IT SHOULD BE WELL 
RESPECTED BY EVERYONE. IT DOESNT FORECLOSE ANY QUESTIONS." FATHER THEODORE HESBURGH, UNMRSITY PRESIDENTEMERITUS 
"THE STATEMENT CHALLENGES STUDENTS TO BEITER UNDERSTAND THEIR FAITH AND E.XPANO THEIRACADEMJC KNOWLEDGE: LIZZI SHAPPELL. S'ruDENT BODY PR.ESlDENT 
•r•M CERTAIN HIS B.ESPONS.E TODAY DOESN'T MAn EVEP.YONE 
HAPPY. BUT THAT'S NOT HIS JOB ••• HE WENT RIGHT DOWN THE MIDDLE. • DANIEL SARACINO, DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS 
•1 HOPE THAT OTHER CATHOUC UNIVERSITIES LOOKING AT THIS CAN SAY. 'OH, THERI!'SAWAYTOWORKITOUT SO THAT NEITHER 
ACADEMIC FREEDOM NOR CATHOLIC CHARACTER NEED 10 BE COMPROMISED ... GLENN HENDLER. ENGLISH PROFESSOil 

JARRED WAFER/Observer Graphic 
Saint Mary's perfor111s alternate to 'Vagina Monologues' 
While College administrators can occur." ed the format of the SMC logues," Pittman said. 
'SMC Monologues' 

has never formally prohibited Jenkins said Wednesday a Monologues in a performance Snyder said while she "The Vagina Monologues," faculty advised student-com­of "Loyal Daughters." believes a production of "Loyal 
promote awareness 

many students have said the posed production like "Loyal "I would hope that we could Daughters" could raise cam­
SMC Monologues are better Daughters" would help to eventually form a third joint pus-wide awareness of impor­By KELLY MEEHAN suited to promote awareness of "eliminate violence against play that highlights the interac­tant issues, she fears "not Saint Mary's Editor pressing campus and national women" -a statement sup­tions among women in our col­enough is being done to keep 
issues. ported by CARE faculty advisor lege community," she said. the women of Notre Dame or 
Mmnbers of the Notre Dame The SMC Monologues -pro­and College psychology profes­"Such a step would be enlight­the women of Saint Mary's safe community with questions duced by Campus Alliance for sor Catherine Pittman. ening, healing and empowering from sexual assault." about "Loyal Daughters" -a Hape Elimination (CARE) and Pittman said a student-writ­for women at Notre Dame, Warnings sent to women student-written play that could Feminists United and Straight ten play at Notre Dame would Saint Mary's and Holy Cross warning them to protect them­be produced this fall, University and Gay Alliance (SAGA) -is a serve to address "the continued College. I think it is long past selves from sexual assault and President Father John Jenkins' play comprised of monologues problem of sexual assaults on time for such an event." rape are not sufficient in fixing said Wednosday-can see how written and submitted by stu­[both] campuses, the conflicts The personal monologue the problem, she said. a similar production has played dents, faculty, staff and sisters raised in Catholic women's model has proved so successful The next step, she said, is out across the street. that are then performed by a experience of women's sexuali­for the College that CARE stu­addressing assault issues with 
In his closing statement on member of the College commu­ty and the diversity of sexual dent officers, along with both men and women at Notre academic freedom and Catholic nity during three weekend per­experience that is often not Pittman, have presented their Dame's freshmen orientation. character, Jenkins said leaders formances in February. respected, or even recognized, experience of creating the SMC "I hope that the women [of 
< of "The Vagina Monologues" "We are now at a new phase on campus." Monologues at two national Notre Dame] follow in Eve had proposed turning their own in our speaking out," senior Snyder said the SMC conferences and will do so Ensler's footprints to openly uniquo experiencns into a pro­SMC Monologues performer Monologues are one of the first again this month at a Women's and honestly convey the truth duetion targeting issues of vio­Stephanie Snyder said. "Those personally written performanc­Studies workshop on develop­of their lives," Snyder said. lence against women -an idea participating in the play are as es modeled after "The Vagina ing campus-focused mono­"Speaking out against institu­Saint Mary's has embraced for transformed -if not more so Monologues" and said they cur­logues in Wisconsin. tionalized oppression is never the past two years. -than those watching the rently serve as a national "We would like to encourage easy. It takes a lot of faith in The SMC Monologues attempt play. When you have a play model for such productions. not only Notre Dame, but cam­one's self, in God (and[ in the to increase campus-wide written, performed and attend­Snyder, who was generally puses across the country, to community at large." awareness of sensitiVI) issues ed for and by a community with pleased with Jenkins' state­speak out on issues related to like rape and viole111:e against a focus on that community, ment, said she would not be women's sexuality through the Contact Kelly Meehan at women. powerful and positive change surprised if Notre Dame adapt-venue of self-produced mono-kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 





