
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Professors question recruitment approach 
While University has no quota for Catholic faculty members, ND scholars stress caution 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Editor's Note: This is the third story in a three-part series examining the role of Catholic faculty at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame may be begin­ning a heightened push to recruit Catholic professors, but during his Sept. 26 address to the faculty, University President Father John Jenkins was quick to assure the non-Catholics in attendance of their importance. 
"Faculty members who are not Catholic are indispensable to the life and success of Notre Dame," Jenkins said during his address. 
The debate generated by the different perspectives of non­Catholic scholars -who now comprise about 46 percent of the faculty -makes Notre Dame a "better Catholic univer­sity," Jenkins said. 
But some of those non­Catholic scholars say the University's new recruitment efforts may have an alienating effect, and other professors warn against taking an overly numerical approach to the proj­ect. 
Rabbi Michael Signer, a Jewish professor mentioned by Jenkins in his address who has contributed to Catholic-Jewish dialogue at the University, said he found Jenkins' remarks about increasing the number of Catholic faculty members "chill­ing." 
"I think that Father Jenkins is 

·absolutely sincere when he indicates that non-Catholics contribute to the Catholic mis­sion of the Univers~ty of Notre Dame," Signer said. "However, when one talks about numbers, and special hiring efforts, there is always a shadow cast over those who are not Catholic." 
Signer said Jenkins has set himself up to walk a delicate line -to bring in more Catholic faculty members while at the same time not alienating Notre Dame's non-Catholic professors. 
"I think that the University, under Father Jenkins' leader­ship, poses a challenge to itself to seek out what he considers to be a critical number of Catholic faculty and make non-Catholics feel welcome," Signer said. 
Father Robert Sullivan, direc­tor of the Erasmus Institute and director of the newly created Keough office -which will strive to help the University maintain a "critical number" of Catholic professors, Jenkins said in his address -said Notre Dame's mission is primarily to 
see FACULTY/page 6 



College addresses homosexuality 
SMC panel discusses being gay on campus 
By MEG HAN WONS 
News Writer 
As activists across the U.S. spoke out Wednesday in honor of National Coming Out Day, members of the Saint Mary's community gathered in Dalloway's Coffeehouse to dis­cuss the issues facing gay, les­bian, bisexual and transgen­dered communities both at the College and within society. 
The Wednesday night panel discussion was sponsored by Saint Mary's o!Ticially recog­nized student club Straight and Gay Alliance (SAGA). 
While several of the five women on the panel -who represented a range of ages and academic disciplines ­
see PANEL/page 6 


SAGA reflects on challenges, goals 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
On March 21, 2005, Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) voted 12-3 to make Straight and Gay Alliance (SAGA) an official College club, a decision that ended the student struggle to obtain recognition. 
The history of officially sponsored homosexual clubs on campus is a dark one. 
On March 3, 1997, The Alliance of Lesbian, Bisexual, Straight and Questioning Women of Saint Mary's College applied for official club 
see SAGA/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Ben Folds to perfor111 at Stepan 
SUB announces solo artist to play Nov. 10 

By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
Ben Folds has developed a reputation for rocking the suburbs, but after the Student Union Board (SUB) released news the musician would be performing at Notre Dame in November, it's appar­ent the piano-rock artist has room for college campuses 
Folds will perform on Nov. 10 at 9 p.m. in the Stepan Center. 
The decision to bring Folds to campus was the result of "general student feedback," SUB manager Patrick Vassel said. Through formal polling and informal feedback, Vassel said Folds is "some­body that [SUB I knows is extremely popular on cam­pus." 
Vassel also mentioned only "half jokingly" that Folds is one of the top 10 most popu­lar music artists that Notre Dame students list on their Facebook profiles. 
"[When] over 500 people have an artist listed on their profile -you get an idea that he is widely popular," he said. 
The singer has released four solo LPs and intends to 
see CONCERT/page 4 

Sixth annual Blue Mass honors emergency personnel 
Notre Dame, South Bend communities celebrate dedication, commitment of local firefighters, police officers post-Sept. 11 

By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame communi­ty took time Wednesday afternoon to honor local firefighters, police officers and emergency response people at the sixth annual Blue Mass. 
University President Father John Jenkins presided over the Mass and called these occupations "special expression[s] of Christian service and gen­erosity." 
During his homily, Director of Campus Ministry Father Richard Warner emphasized how easy it is for many peo­ple to take certain things in life for granted until they are altered or removed. 
"Since Sept. 11, [citizens] have a much deeper appreci­ation for everyday commit­ment and dedication from each of you," Warner told the officers and emergency personnel in attendance -a feeling, he said, that will continue to resonate in the future. 
"[The] work becomes a mission and a ministry as we come together to build a society where there is peace and justice," Warner said. 
After communion, former Indiana governor and former South Bend mayor Joe Kernan expressed gratitude for the officers' and emer­gency personnel's crucial role in providing safety and security. 
"We hold you [officers and emergency personnel] in the highest regard -we admire you to the greatest degree," Kernan said. 
Kernan said the work done by those who keep the com-
see MASS/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, October 12, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Avvkward? Not quite. 
Dearly beloved, we gather here to mourn the loss of a friend who (accord­ing at least to the Oxford English Dictionary) had been at our sides, for better or for worse, since 1530. 
A friend who, through-Joe Edmonds out the 
years, had 

both insulted Photographer us and made us ache with laughter, a friend who both publicly embarrassed us and alleviated said humiliation, but above all, a friend who never deserved the cruel fate bestowed upon it in recent years. 
Who is this friend, you ask? None other than the word "awkward." 
Of course, awkward certainly isn't the first word to meet such a fate ­time and time again, rampant overuse of a word makes it lose all but the most general meaning, like a spice left too long out of the jar and soon devoid of flavor. 
We've seen many a respectable and perfectly innocent term fall from glory to definition-limbo -nice, fme, cool, awesome, interesting, sweet, actually, defmitely, seriously, literally, anyways. 
And don't even get me started on what that remorseless word-usage­sadist Alanis Morrissette did to the word "ironic" in a three-minute song. 
But awkward is a word for whose tragic demise we must all take respon­sibility. 
Every time we tripped in public and answered the stares and stifled giggles around us with a confident cry of "Aaawkwarrrd!" we gave the word a little push down a steep slope towards linguistic ambiguity. 
Every time we decided that the short­est pause in conversation elicited a declaration of just how "awkward" those silent seconds were, we kicked awkward in the shin and told it how fat it looked in those jeans. 
And every time we placed one of our hands over the other, stuck out our thumbs and wiggled them to simulate the "awkward turtle," we were being really quick-witted and inventive. 
Wait, sorry, my bad, we were actually just spitting in awkward's drink while it wasn't looking. 
The list of offenses goes on and on, including adding insult to injury by spelling the word itself as "akward" or joining any of the 276 Facebook groups centered around that syntactic suc­cubus dubbed "the awkward turtle." And while these all contributed to awk­ward's demise, autopsies reveal the true cause of death to be exhaustion after serving, on average, as the fourth word of every sentence during Frosh-0 2006. 
So friends, I now entreat you, don't let this injustice happen again. Learn from the tragic story of "awkward," and let it rest in peace. 
Try, instead, the word "uncomfort­able" once in a while-so many sylla­bles, you won't even want to overuse it. 
I'll leave you with the eternal words of Mother Teresa: "It is a poverty that a [word] must die so that you may [speak] as you wish." 
Indeed, truer words have ne'er been spoken. 
Contact Joe Edmonds at 
jedmondl@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for rhe highest standards of journal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comacr us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE QUOTE FROM A MOVIE? 

Dino Pezza  Joe McBrayer  Lauren Albergo  Mike Kaiser  Mike Aetcher  
sophomore Morrissey  sophomore Morrissey  freshman Pangborn  sophomore Morrissey  freshman Morrissey  
"'You must be putting something in the water.'"  "'He shouldn't have been standing there!'"  '"Do me a favor and lose five pounds immediately or get out ofmy  '"Every time I'm [in the Photo Poll] it gets harder to leave. ,,  '"Oh my God, you hit that,,,guy.  





building, LIKE NOW!'" 

of miles away, a newspaper reported Wednesday. 
The roughly 300 Rhesus macaques will be shifted from New Delhi to the dense jungles of Madhya Pradesh state, whose government will receive $54,000 from the federal government to cover the cost of reintroducing the monkeys to the wild, the Hindu reported. 
Government buildings, temples and many residen­tial neighborhoods of New Delhi are overrun by an army of macaques. The monkeys scare passers-by, and occasionally bite or snatch food from unsuspect­ing visitors. 
Police kill emu that bugged motorists 
GRANITE CITY, Ill. ­Packing 100 pounds on its 5­foot frame, the big bird gave police in this St. Louis sub­urb a mighty run, confound­ing them all six times some­one reported the ostrich-like beast bugging motorists last weekend along busy Illinois Route 3. 
Police finally caught up to the claw-footed menace Monday and ended the ruckus once and for all, cor­nering the emu, a cousin to the ostrich, and shooting it dead out of fear it'd again wander into traffic and kill someone. 
Two days later, police on Wednesday still were peck­ing away at the vexing ques­tion: Where did the bird come from? 
"We figured someone would call and say, 'That's my bird!'" Police Chief Rich Miller said. "But we still haven't heard from any­body." 
300 monkeys to be banished from New Delhi 
NEW DELHI -The Supreme Court ordered wildlife authorities to catch hundreds of monkeys that roam the Indian capital, often terrorizing residents, and relocate them thousands 

IN BRIEF 

A Columbus Day lecture "Dia de Ia Raza, Columbus Day: Two names for an event that changed the Americas" will be held today at noon in Vander Vennet Theatre. 
Notre Dame women's bas­ketball head coach Muffet McGraw will host "Angels Night Out," an education and awareness fair for women's health today in the Joyce Center Concourse and Monogram Room. Exhibits will be open and refresh­ments served at 5:30 p.m.. and presentations begin at 6:30p.m. 
AcoustiCafe will be held tonight at 10 p.m. in the basment of LaFortune. 
The United States Air Force Band will play at 7:30 
p.m. tonight in Leighton Concert Hall in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The lecture: "What Women Bring to Peace: A Comparative Look at the Role of Women in Conflict Resolution Today" will be held today at 4 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
Notre Dame hockey will take on Minnesota State today at 7:05 p.m. at the Joyce Center Ice Rink. 
The film "Wai-Mart: The High Cost of Low Price" will be shown at 7 p.m. Friday in Hesbugh Center Auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
IIJ % 
~ 
IIJ 
~ 
..... 
<C 
(,) 


...I 0 HIGH 43 HIGH 35 HIGH 45 HIGH 52 LOW 29 LOW 29 LOW 27 LOW 34 
Atlanta 73147 Boston 71 146 Chicago 41 I 33 Denver 52 I 29 Houston 85 I 55 Los Angeles 75 I 59 Minneapolis 37 I 28 New York 71 1 44 Philadelphia 68 I 44 Phoenix 901 67 Seattle 69 I 41 St. Louis 52 I 35 Tampa 86 I 66 Washington 69 I 48 
Thursday, October 12, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SENATE

Consul general explains Lebanon 
Committee chairs 
Israeli representative visits campus, discusses Hezbollah conflict 
By STEVE KERINS 
News Writer 
Israel has a definite plan for its role in the Middle East following this summer's short but controversial war· against Hezbollah forces in Lebanon, an Israeli govern­ment representative said Wednesday. 
Barukh Binah, Israel's Consul General for Chicago, gave 
a lecture "We bequeath to our entitled "In children a country that 
the Wake of a 
still has to be fought
Summer of 
Conflict: An for, and we can't take Israeli anything for granted" 
Perspective." The lecture 
Barukh Binah 
was spon­sored by Israeli Consul General Notre Dame's for Chicago 
Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies, along with the Jewish Federation of St. Joseph Valley and the Department of Political Science. 
"There's a lot of talk right now ... about how this war started, and what was achieved and was not achieved," Binah said, before giving an overview of the events leading up to the conflict. 
Binah said Israel's advance into Hezbollah-con­trolled southern Lebanon occurred as a response to the kidnapping of two Israeli soldiers, after numerous failed kidnapping attempts over the past sev-


UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
The Graduate School 

Session 1: Mon., Oct. 23 Overview and the Verbal test 
Session 2: Tues., Oct. 24 Analytical Writing 
Session 3: Wed., Oct. 25 The Quantitative test 
All sessions are from 7 to 9 pm in 140 DeBartolo Hall 
E-maillchism@nd.edu to register. Include your name and the sessions you would like to attend. 
eral months. 
Because Hezbollah is directly connected to lead­ership in Iran and Syria, he said, officials in those coun­tries would have had to endorse Hezbollah's action against Israel. 
"They thought that the kidnapping of Israeli sol­diers would draw attention from [Iran's nuclear pro­gram]," Binah said. "They 
were sur­prised by the Israeli reac­tion." 
Israel's reaction, Binah said, showed its neighbors the country "can retaliate" and would "not tolerate attacks" on its territory. 
"In view of the·provoca­

tion, which was quite a major one ... we have responded in a very meas­ured way," he said. 
The intent behind Israel's actions against Hezbollah, Binah said, was "to bring Hezbollah down to a certain level ... which we hope that we have achieved." 
Binah applauded recent measures taken by the U.N. Security Council to establish what Israel says is a more sustainable situation in the region. 
"[The Security Council] mandated an [arms] embar­go for every member of the United Nations on Hezbollah," he said. 
The other factor, he said, is that Hezbollah "will not 
present updates
be able to deploy in the 
south of Lebanon," and thus no longer poses a threat to Israel. 
Binah also said the release of the kidnapped soldiers remains unconditional, a matter for which Israel assigns responsibility to the Lebanese government. 
"Everything is hinged on the performance of the international community" in implementing the U.N.'s res­olution, Binah said. 
Binah addressed criticisms raised against Israel's treat­ment of Lebanese civilians and infrastructure during its attacks. He said the Israeli army did everything possible to ensure civilian safety while protecting Israel from Hezbollah's ter­rorism. 
"We have given up the advantage of ... surprise to alert the [Lebanese] public of an impending attack," Binah said. "We used the radio to alert people, and we even called them every now and then on cell phones, when we knew who to call." 
Although Israel won a decisive victory in this sum­mer's war, Binah said the political situation in that troubled region remains dif­ficult. 
"We bequeath to our chil­By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 
The Student Senate breezed through a 20-minute meeting Wednesday as committee chairs briefly updated senators on the progress of their initiatives. 
Several committees did not meet at all this week due to mid-term exams. Residence Life committee chair Pat Knapp told senators he met with University architect Greg Hakanen regard­ing the University's plans for a "College Town" just south of Notre Dame's campus. 
Last April, student body presi­dent Lizzi Shappell, former stu­dent body president Dave Baron, former Residence Life committee chair Mark Seiler and then-senior Brett Hummel helped create a student survey to gauge what type of develop­ment students would like to see on the land between Angela Boulevard and Napoleon Boulevard. 
Knapp said they received about 40 percent of the surveys back last spring. Now, University officials are asking Knapp to help distribute additional sur­veys, this time for faculty and staff as well as the residents of the South Bend community. 
"We want to determine the needs and preferences of South Bend residents so we can align their interests with those of the students," Knapp said. 
In other Senate news: 
+Senior Lindsay Hero spoke to senators about "Gulu Walk Day," an event to raise aware­ness about Gulu in northern Uganda, where Hero said about 50,000 children are forced to walk up to 10 kilometers every­day to avoid being abducted by the Lord's Resistance Army. 
The event is jointly coordinat­ed by Indiana University South Bend and Notre Dame. Hero told senators they would receive e­mails with more information in the coming days. She asked them to forward that informa­tion on to their constituents. 
+University Affairs committee chair Aly Baumgartner said the second student-alumni recep­tion on Oct. 6 "did not go as well as the first one," which was on Sept. 29. But she plans to make improvements to ensure the third and final reception has a strong turnout. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
dren a country that still has to be fought for, and we can't take anything for granted," he said. 
Library open 24 hours 
Contact Steve Kerins at 
ing to work with us and was 
skerins@nd.edu 
By AARON STEINER open to our ideas," he said. News Writer "[Butterwick] mentioned that 
Students cramming for midterms have a new place to take their late night studies this week. 
For the first time during fall midterms week, the Hesburgh Library is open 24 hours to offer students an around the clock work space. 
The extended hours, which end Friday, are a result of the efforts of the Academic Affairs Committee of Student Senate. 
Academic Affairs committee chair Jim Grace said the idea "had been bounced around Student Senate" for some time, and last year members of stu­dent government initiated con­tact with the Library to pursue the initiative. 
The Senate passed a resolu­tion last January that asks for increased hours during midterms and throughout the year, which resulted in the Library's increased hours dur­ing the unofficial spring 2006 midterms week. 
While the Library has offered extended hours during finals for several years, Grace said the Senate thought midterms were also an impor­tant study time. 
"Midterm week seems to be more hectic," he said, noting that students' schedules do not change at this time of the year as they do during finals to accommodate for additional study time. 
Last year Grace presented the idea to Nigel Butterwick, the Hesburgh Library's associ­ate director for user services, and he said the administration was very receptive. 
"The Library was very will-it would be feasible to be open during midterms week." 
Grace said the possibility of having extended hours throughout the year was dis­cussed, but for now Library officials believe midterms would be the best time to offer such hours. 
"We acknowledge that stu­dents want to study during the hours before exams," Butterwick said, while noting the increase of traffic during midterm and finals week. 
"We would expect far more students to be using [the Library] during those hours." 
Butterwick could not provide official data on the increase of students during this week, but both Grace and Butterwick said they feel this week's extended hours have been well-utilized by students. 
"I think they should do it. all the time," said freshman Maria Cardoso, who said she "will probably be in the library until 6 a.m." Tuesday evening. 
Freshman Tim Boland said "they usually have to kick us out of here at 2 a.m.," so hav­ing the extended hours is appreciated. 
The Hesburgh Library plans to be open 24 hours a day dur­ing midterms week in the future. Butterwick said the Library will evaluate data on how it is used during midterms this week when planning extended hours in the spring. 
"We want to tailor it to the study patterns of stu­dents," he said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 12, 2006 
Concert 
continued from page 1 

release another album, "supersunnyspeedgraphic," on Oct. 24. After the release of "Songs for Silverman," Folds' most recent album, he has been touring with bassist Jared Reynolds and drummer Lindsay Jamieson, who will also be performing with Folds at Notre Dame in November. 
The process for bringing Folds to Notre Dame began 
• last April when SUB had its annual turnover. "As soon as we heard in April that [Folds] was going to be available in the fall, we contacted the agent," Vassel said. "It was a process of months and months, but we were able to make it hap­pen." Folds has performed on other college campuses, including Purdue, Vassel said. Due to legal and contractual issues, SUB could not reveal how much Folds' fee will be for performing. The total cost, however, will include security, hospitality, trans­portation and production, Vassel said. The University concert budget is "just under $55,000," Vassel said. "[SUB's] plan basically is to spend all of that concert budget and then use the tick­et revenue from it to fund the concert in the spring." SUB has made an effort, he said, to minimize the cost of attending the concert for stu­dents. "Basically, we could charge whatever we want theoreti­cally," Vassel said. "But we always try to keep our shows affordable for students." 
The ticket price will be $15 -a $5 increase from ticket costs for last year's Better Than Ezra and Pat Green concerts, Vassel said. 
"The increase is "really just reflective of the fact that it's a more expensive concert for us," he said. "We think it's a fair price, and we're hopeful that it sells out." 
To sell out, SUB needs to sell nearly 1,800 tickets, the Stepan Center's capacity for that night. Vassel said last year's concert capacities were only 1,500. 
"Being a more popular artist, we were able to work with Notre Dame Security/ Police and Risk Management to getting the capacity increased to 1 ,800," he said. 
While Vassel admits the concert's location at Stepan Center may not be perfect, he thinks it is the best option. 
"We wish for something bet­ter, but it's kind of the best of what we've got," Vassel said. "I say it's the best location with the understanding that obviously it's not ideal." 
Stepan Center is the best location because the Performing Arts Center is not available for SUB use and the Joyce Center requires a whole new level of produc­tion, Vassel said. 
Concerts held at the Joyce Center are "significantly more expensive," Vassel said, and scheduling anything at the Joyce Center is difficult. 
"Because Stepan Center is a Student Activities venue, it's much easier to book in advance land] it's a lot easier to be flexible with the sched­ule," he said. 
Tickets for the concert will go on sale on Oct. 26 at 9 
a.m. in the LaFortune Box Office and will be open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross College students with valid IDs. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 
the Sept. 11 attacks. "As I recall, we had a
Mass 

number of firefighters and continued from page 1 police officers who came 
actually from New York to munity safe is difficult and join us for this Mass," Rocca 
requires vigi­lance, and he assured the workers they would be in the community's prayers. 
Officers and emergency response per­sonnel served as lectors and took part in the presentation of the gifts. 
The Blue 
said. 

.The first few ''As I recall, we had Blue Masses usually ended
a number of 
with a speaker

firefighters and 
who "actuallypolice officers who experienced the Sept. 11
came actually from 
attacks,"· Rocca

New York to join us 
said. 

for this Mass. " On Wednesday, the Blue Mass placed more of
Father Peter Rocca 
an emphasis on

Basilica rector 
the local com­munity, "not so 

Mass "started in 2001 in the much geared toward inviting wake of the Sept. 11 people from New York," 
attacks," Basilica Rector Rocca said. 
Father Peter Rocca said. 
"I think our first [Blue Mass] was about a month [after the Sept. 11 attacks]." he said. 
It is called the Blue Mass, Rocca said, "because of the color of the uniform 

"[The] work becomes a mission and a ministry as we come together to build a society where there is peace andjustice. " 
Father Richard Warner director Campus Ministry 
frequently worn by police officers and firefighters." 
People traveled great dis­tances to attend the first Blue Mass as a way to remember those who lost their lives or served during 
An "open invitation" was extended to local, munici­pal, county and state law enforcement and fire agen­cies, University of Notre Dame Security/Police 
Director Rex J. Rakow said. 
The Blue Mass is "kind of a new thing, 

but we think it's an impor­tant new tradition that we've started," Rocca said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 
But just a few years later March 21 vote of approval. the group failed to properly The acceptance of SAGA as file paper work with Student an official club did not come Activities, and The Feminist without tension. Collective dissolved. Allmandinger said some 
Today, however, SAGA is as students ask to be removed strong as ever with approxi­from the campus-wide e­mately 50 members who aim mails SAGA sends, and the 
to  "educate  group's posters  
and  promote  have  been  
respect for each other and  "It is a life skill to  ripped down. She said,  
being able to respect differ­ences -even if that means  accept that other people are different than you and to be  however, she "respects" the wishes of stu­dents who do  
you  have  to  able to deal with that  not wish to be  
agree to dis­agree," SAGA  in some way.  involved. Junior  Sara  
President  Nielsen  said  
Kristi  Sara Nielsen  she  hopes  
Allmandinger  junior  more  students  

said. 
SAGA has not faced the backlash of its predecessors -only warn­ings from a "couple of administrators telling to be careful what we do," Allmandinger said. 
Coordinator of Women's Studies Astrid Henry said most feedback has been pos­itive, with only " a little bit of tension" arising when BOG voted to grant SAGA club status in spring of 2005. 
SAGA, led by then senior Megan Schaeffer, was not originally granted club sta­tus when it first requested it on March 15, 2005. 
BOG reviewed the proposal for one week before its 
will become 
aware of SAGA in the future and that "more people will come to be accepting on this campus." 
"It is a life skill to accept that other people are differ­ent than you and to be able to deal with that in some way," she said. 
Ultimately, SAGA welcomes people at Saint Mary's to have "somewhere to go on a good or bad day -to have a place to go where they can be accepted." 
Liz Harter contributed to this report. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
SAGA 
continued from page 1 
status. BOG researched the need for such a club and approved it on April 7 ­only to have it deferred by then College President Bill Hickey. 
He vowed to make an administrative decision about ALBSQ by the conclu­sion of the school year. Hickey failed to do so, how­ever, and retired at the end of May, leaving the decision up to his successor, Marilou Eldred. 
Almost one year after ALBSQ's original request for club status, Eldred denied the group official College sponsorship on Feb. 27, 1998. This decision caused major student protests across campus. 

Student supporters covered their mouths with duct tape and camped outside of Eldred's office in Le Mans Hall for up to eight hours at a time. 
Following Eldred's rejec­tion, the group renamed itself The Feminists Collective. Members rewrote their constitution and reap­plied for club status to BOG. On March 5, 1998, they unanimously received club status and held their inaugu­ral meeting on March 19. 

lanned 
gnancy? 
,,..., .... v·uv you love needs help 
on, please call. 
, Campus Hinistry, 1-7163 Campus Ministry, 1-7163 Steihe-Pasalick Counseling Center, 1-7336 Healtl1 Services, 1-8286 



ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 12, 2006 Co,\,tPILED fROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
5 killed in French train collision 
ZOUFFTGEN, France-A passenger train collided Wednesday with an oncoming freight train in northeastern France, killing at least five people and injuring 16, two seri­ously, officials said. · 
The impact of the crash lifted one of the passenger train's cars on top of another, compressing it. Several cars of the freight train were either crumpled, bent skyward or tipped over on their sides. More than 300 police and rescue workers from both France and Luxembourg were at the scene. 
Rescuers had retrieved five bodies by evening, police said, and did not believe any survivors were trapped inside the twisted wreckage, although rescue efforts were expected to continue through the night. 
Pope eases restrictions on Latin Mass 
VATICAN CITY -Pope Ben.edict XVI has decided to loosen restrictions on use of the old Latin Mass, a Vatican official said Wednesday, a major concession to ultracon­servatives who split with the Vatican to protest reforms. 
The decision is part of Benedict's efforts to woo back Catholics who joined a rebel arch­bishop in protest over the changes. 
The pope's intent is to "help overcome the schism and help bring [the ultraconserva-· tivesl back to the church," said the official, who asked that his name not be used because the papal document has not yet been released. 
It was not immediately clear when the pope will make his decision public, but the official said it was expected soon. The Times of London, in a report Wednesday, said the pope has signed the order and it could be published in the next few weeks. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Election fraud reported in St. Louis 
ST. LOUIS -Election officials say hun­dreds of potentially bogus registration cards, including ones for dead and under­age people, were submitted by a branch of a national group that has been criticized in the past for similar offenses. 
At least 1,500 potentially fraudulent reg­istration cards wer_e turned in by the St. Louis branch of the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, or 'ACORN, leading up to Wednesday's reg­istration deadline for the Nov. 7 election, said Kim Mathis, chairwoman of the St. Louis City Board of Election Commissioners. 
Invalid registrations solicited by ACORN workers included duplicate or incomplete ones, a 16-year-old voter, dead people reg­istering, and forged signatures, Mathis said. 
Troops to stay in Iraq until 2010 
WASHINGTON -For planning purposes, the Army is gearing up to keep current troop levels in Iraq for another four years, a new indication that conditions there are too unstable to foresee an end to the war. 
Gen. Peter Schoomaker, the Army chief of staff, cautioned against reading too much into the planning, which is done far in advance to prepare the right mix of combat units for expected deployments. He noted that it is easier to scale back later if conditions allow, than to ramp up if they don't. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Worker sues Wal-Mart over accident 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind.-A worker who was critically burned in an electrical fire at the new Bloomington Wal-Mart Supercenter in August has filed a lawsuit alleging Wal-Mart and two other companies did not provide proper safety. 
A lawyer said he is preparing a similar suit on behalf of another contractor who was criti­cally injured in the Aug. 26 fire. 
The men were employees of Electromation, Inc., of Muncie, and were burned when elec­trical panels they were working on became charged with up to 12,000 volts of electricity and shorted. 
Plane hits New York building 
Yankee pitcher presumed dead in crash that reminded citizens of Sept. 11 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -A small plane carrying New York Yankee Cory Lidle slammed into a 50-story skyscraper Wednesday, apparently killing the pitcher and a 
. second person in a crash that rained flaming debris onto the sidewalks and briefly raised fears of another' terrorist attack. A law enforcement official in Washington said Lidle ­an avid pilot who got his license during last year's offseason -was aboard the single-engine aircraft when it issued a distress signal and plowed into the 30th and 31st floors of the high-rise on Manhattan's Upper East Side. Mayor Michael Bloomberg said both people aboard were killed. Lidle's passport was, found on the street, accord­ing to a federal official, speaking to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity. It was not immediately clear who was at the controls and who was the second person aboard. Federal Aviation Administration records showed the plane was reg­istered to Lidle, who had repeatedly assured reporters in recent weeks that flying was safe and that the Yankees -who were traumatized in 1979 saying the team was unpre­Brooklyn Bridge and the it was anything but an acci­when catcher Thurman pared. Empire State Building. dent. Nevertheless, within Munson was killed in the "This is a terrible and The FAA said it was too 10 minutes of the crash, crash of a plane he was shocking tragedy that has early to determine what fighter jets were sent aloft piloting -had no reason to stunned the entire Yankees might have caused the over several cities, includ­worry. organization," Yankees crash. The National ing New York, Washington, 'The flying?" the 34-year­owner George Steinbrenner Transportation Safety Detroit, Los Angeles and old Lidle, who had a home said in a statement. He Board sent investigators. Seattle, Pentagon officials near Los Angeles, told The offered his condolences to How the plane managed said. Philadelphia Inquirer this Lidle's wife, Melanie, and 6-to penetrate airspace over The plane, flying north summer. ''I'm not worried year-old son. one of the most densely over the East River, along about it. I'm safe up there. I The federal official said packed sections of New the usual flight corridor, feel very comfortable with the plane had issued a dis­York City was not clear. The came through a hazy, my abilities flying an air­tress call before the crash. plane was unusual in that it cloudy sky and hit The plane." The craft took off from New was equipped with a para­Belaire -a red-brick tower The crash came just four Jersey's Teterboro Airport chute in case of engine fail­overlooking the river­days after the Yankees' about 2:30 p.m. and was in ure, but there was no sign with a loud bang. It touched embarrassingly quick elimi­the air for barely 15 min­the chute was used. off a raging fire that cast a nation from the playoffs, utes, authorities said. The crash rattled New pillar of black smoke over during which Lidle had Bloomberg said Lidle and Yorkers' nerves five years the city and sent flames been relegated to the his flying companion were after the Sept. 11 attacks, shooting from four windows bullpen. In recent days, sightseeing and were taking but the FBI and the on two adjoining floors. Lidle had taken abuse from a route that took them over Homeland Security quickly Firefighters put the blaze fans on sports talk radio for the Statue of Liberty, the said there was no evidence out in less than an hour. 

SOUTH KOREA 

N. Korea warns of more nuke tests 
authorities not to escalate the situation retaliation.
Associated Press 

any further," U.N. Secretary-General "If the U.S. increases pressure upon 
SEOUL North Korea on Kofi Annan said at the United Nations. the DPRK, persistently doing harm to Wednesday threatened more nuclear "We already have an extremely diffi­it, it will continue to take physical tests and said it would consider addi­cult situation." countermeasures, considering it as a tional sanctions an act of war, as On the streets of North Korea's capi­declaration of a war," said a statement Japan banned all North Korean tal, it seemed like business as usual. by the North's Foreign Ministry and imports -such as clams and mush­Video by AP Television News showed carried by the official .Korean Central rooms -and barred the North's ships people milling about Kim II Sung News Agency. It did not say what those from its ports. square' in Pyongyang and rehearsing a measures could be. DPRK is shorthand 
Amid the deepening unease, South performance for the 80th anniversary for the Democratic People's Republic Korea said it was making sure its of the "Down with Imperialism Union." of Korea. troops were prepared for atomic war­North Korea, in its first formal state­North Korea's No.2 leader Kim Yong fare and said it may bolster its conven­ment since it announced an atomic Nam threatened in an interview with a tional forces as well. The top U.S. gen­bomb test Monday, hailed the blast as Japanese news agency that there eral in the South said American sol­a success and warned that it would would· also be more nuclear tests if diers were poised to repel any attack. counter further pressure from the Washington continued what he called 
"I would urge the North Korean international community with physical its "hostile attitude." 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, October 12, 2006 
Faculty 
continued from page 1 

maintain the level of Catholic faculty rather than increase it. 
"If it gets below [50 percent], then there are real questions about the maintenance of the University," he said. Sullivan said his office has ·no numerical goals or quotas regarding the number of scholars to identify this year and probably will not have set figures in the future. 
Quality versus quantity 

Even without defined quotas, some professors said they are skeptical of how recruitment of Catholic faculty members will proceed. 
Last year, philosophy professor Kenneth Sayre wrote an essay entitled "Assessing Notre Dame's Catholic Character" that he addressed to Provost Thomas Burish regarding concerns that Notre Dame was losing its Catholic identity. 
In his essay, Sayre cautioned against measuring Catholic character quantitatively. He rec­ommended each college perform self-assessments to measure its contribution to the formation of students' Catholic character. 
Sayre said he was suspicious of the University's attempt to assign numbers to the break­down of Catholic versus non­Catholic faculty. 
"Father Jenkins used a couple of expressions in his address that indicated that he is a little uncertain about what to do with this himself," Sayre said. "He talked about a critical number of Catholics, without putting a par­ticular figure on it." 
Philosophy professor Alvin Plantinga said he is enthusiastic about Nritre Dame's Catholic mission and its intent to main­tain that mission, but questioned whether increasing numbers of Catholics is the way to strength­en its Catholicity. . 
"It's kind of a blunt instrument in that some non-Catholics con­tribute heavily to the Catholic mission, and some Catholics don't," Plantinga said. 
Another reason not to meas­ure the number of Catholics quantitatively is because not everyone who self-identifies as Catholic practices his or her 
faith or will help students devel­
op their own, Sayre said. He 
doubts whether the University 
has reliable methods for distin­
guishing between Catholics who 
live their faith and those who 
seldom practice it. 
But the University is not sim­
ply looking for Catholics who can 
teach Notre Dame level classes, 
Sullivan said. The kind of 
Catholics Notre Dame is looking 
for are those that live out their 
faith and that are committed to 
helping students form their own 
faith lives. 
"In some ways the burden of 
honest falls on the people who 
self-identify as Catholic, but they 
also have to identify how they 
can serve the University in this 
way," Sullivan said. 
Non-Catholics, however, can 
often serve the University in 
developing the faith life of stu­
dents just as well as Catholics, 
Sayre said. 
Mark Roche, dean of the col­
lege of Arts and Letters, recalled 
an interview he conducted with 
a prospective faculty hire. The 
man, a Jewish historian, 
impressed Roche with his 
answer to how he could con­
tribute to Notre Dame's Catholic 
mission. Every faculty member, 
whether Catholic or not, can be ·a model to students, he said. 
"In many cases our best mis­
sion hires are non-Catholics," 
Roche said. "In some cases 
there are Catholic faculty mem­
bers who simply don't integrate 
their faith into their scholarship 
or teaching." 
The 'right kind of Catholic' 
Finding scholars who are not only Catholic, but who are also the kind of Catholic who will contribute to Notre Dame's mis­sion and whose faith is evident in their life and teaching is the real challenge for the University -something Roche said he realizes. 
"There are Catholics out there 
who simply have a separation 
between their academic life and 
their personal life as Catholics 
and don't have a language to 
bridge them," Roche said. 
Sayre said the University should not necessarily look to increase the number of Catholics, but rather to hire those who possess virtues valued by Catholicism. 
"We ought to have more of a certain kind of people," Sayre said. "They may be Catholic and they may not be Catholic.... There i~ in my view a wrong kind of Catholic ... and a right kind of Catholic." 
Echoing the concept of paideia that Jenkins discussed in his address, Sayre said professors should be capable professionally, but they must also help students develop moral character. 
"Catholic faculty, if they are the right kind of Catholic, should provide examples of what it means to be a Catholic in praeti­callife," Sayre said. 
The wrong kind of Catholie may fall to either extreme -he is lax in his faith and Catholic only in Baptism or he practiees on the other extreme and is divi-· sive in is adherence to doctrine and dogma, SayrB said. 
When the College of Arts and Letters hires, Hoehe said, it tries to determine whether the candi­date is this so-called "right kind of Catholic" by first asking him to identify his religion. Interviewers also ask the appli­cants to deseribe how they can contribute to the University's Catholic mission. 
"It's not just a matter of hiring Catholics," Hoche said. "It's a matter of hiring quality again and again so we become an attractive destination for Catholics and non-Catholies." 
Even so, the University plaees too much emphasis on the importance of the faculty in forming the Catholicity of Notre Dame, Signer said. The University needs to remember there are other aspects -like the residential life system, with chapels in each dorm -that contribute to Catholic identity, he said. 
Signer said Jenkins could have approached the issue more diplomatically if he had talked more about the common mission of promoting Catholic virtues, and not focused so clearly on hiring Catholic versus non­Catholic professors. 
"I think that wouldn't be ehill­ing," he said. "I think that would be exciting to a Jew, to a Muslim, to a Hindu, who would come here then and say 'I'm participating in something which is central to my religion being in 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
New kiwis to sport smooth skin 
Associated Press 

FRESNO, Calif. -The Golden State, known for putting its mark on fruits and vegetables of all kinds, plans to lend its golden touch to kiwifruit, best known as the New Zealand import with a fuzzy, thin-skin and a green seed-filled core. 
California already leads the nation in domestic kiwi produc­tion, but farmers partnering with global growers hope to expand that niche by doubling aereage devoted to a golden­flesh variety marketed for its smooth exterior and nutrient­rich, organic qualities. 
"It's just a good, all-around fruit. It's nutritious, doesn't usually need pesticides and tastes good," said Bruce Myers, a Strathmore farmer, who planted 20 acres last year after packing kiwi for fellow California growers for more than two deeades. 
Although California remains a minor player in the global kiwi market compared to New Zealand, Italy and China, the fruit is expected to be about a $23 million crop in California this year, up from about $18 million in 2002, said Marilyn Kinoshita, deputy agriculture eommissioner for Tulare County. 
·"It's eostly for a lot of farm­ers, but it sells well. It's a good diversification crop," Kinoshita said. 
Kiwi costs growers about $10 dollars per vine versus about $3 for tree fruit, said Myers, a third-generation farmer in Strathmore. Plus, there is the cost of setting up irrigation sys­tems and other infrastructure, he said. 
Despite setup expenses, kiwifruit can be a good invest­ment. It's a fairly reliable crop, easy to grow and doesn't require many, if any, pesticides, he said. 
"Very few pests get into them," he said. 
The main variety sold and grown in California -and throughout the world ­remains the tangy green kiwi with the fuzzy brown skin. But another variety, a smooth­skinned, less acidic, golden­fleshed kiwi, has increased in popularity. 
State production of this new fruit, the Zespri Gold, has dou­bled since the first harvest about five years ago, according to the California Farm Bureau. The golden kiwi is sweeter, and marketers arc promoting it to people who like fruits such as mangoes or peaches. 
California produces about 97 percent of the kiwi grown in the United States, while 40 percent of U.S. kiwi sales are of domes­tic kiwis. 
Most of the state's share is produced on 2,200 acres in Tulare County in the southern part of the San Joaquin Valley, where more than 250 crops have flourished to make California the nation's agricul­ture leader. 
Before kiwis were introduced as a crop here in the early 1960s, the fruit had long been a delicacy in China before seeds were sent to New Zealand at the beginning of the 20th centu­ry. There, the fruit flourished and the country quickly became the leader in the market, devel­oping the long-lasting Hayward green variety most people know today. 
Panel 
continued from page 1 
were aware of their sexuali­ties and "came out" before college, others struggled with their identities throughout their time at Saint Mary's. All spoke openly Wednesday and offered insight into the expe­rience of an openly non-het­erosexual woman at an all­women's Catholic college. 
Kelli Harrison, a 1998 College alumna, said she came to Saint Mary's both as a "rabid Catholic" and as someone who was confused. She said she had never been attracted to men and thought she might "just end up being a nun." During her time at the College, !Iarrison met and fell in love with her current partner of 11 years -a College classmate who was also on Wednesday night's panel. 
"For me, coming out was about figuring out: who am I? What is my voice?" Harrison s a i d "Exploring 
God," Nielsen said Saint Mary's bas changed that. 
Campus Ministry has been a great support, said Nielson, who went through its confir­mation program. 
Nielsen also said the posi­tive influence Saint Mary's has had on her life is mutual, for her openness about sexu­ality has enlightened other people -no matter how uncomfortable they may be. 
"Real life is not always comfortable," she said. "I like being out at Saint Mary's because I really think it helps the community." 
Freshman Aimee Sanjari was out in high school as a bisexual and experienced harassment and discrimina­tion from classmates, but said she has found the cli­mate at Saint Mary's to be very different. 
"I really haven't experi­enced any bias or discrimina­tion here and I hope it stays that way," she said. 
Panelist Kristen Matha, a class of 2003 alumna, led a high profile life as a student at Saint Mary's, serv­

your identity ing as sopho­
"Exploring your 
[in college] is more class
identity [in college] is 
pivotal at this president, point in your pivotal at this point in student body life." your life. , vice president 
Harrison and student allied with sev­trustee on the eral students Kelli Harrison College's and faculty panelist Board of 
members dur­ing her time at Saint Mary's to organize a student group to give students a voice. But the administration, she said, was not supportive. 
"They weren't really willing to allow students to get together to talk without dic­tating how it would go," Harrison said. "I always felt, or definitely at times, that I was sort of a second class cit­izen." 
Harrison's partner, Jennifer Warner, a 1998 alumna, also spoke about the lack of sup­port she felt from the admin­istration during her time at Saint Mary's. 
As an Afr.jcan-American student, she said there were many resources available to her and she was encouraged to explore this part of her identity, but when she wanted to discuss her sexuality there was no place for her to go. 
Current Saint Mary's stu­dents provided perspectives on how the College atmos­phere has changed since !Iarrison and Warner were students. 
Junior Sara Nielsen said she knew she was "different" when she was six or seven years old. 
Throughout school she had crushes on guys, but as she grew older she said she dis­covered she had also devel­oped feelings for girls. She came out to her family as a bisexual, and while she said her parents have been accepting, they do not openly discuss her sexuality. 
"There's kind of a don!t ask, don't tell policy," she said. "My dad still kind of thinks that being gay is a choice." 
Nielsen said she came from a very diverse town and won­dered how well she would be accepted as a member of Saint Mary's fairly homoge­nous population. 
She said her experiences here have been positive and she has found people to be very accepting. 
While she entered into col­lege thinking she "did· not want anything to do with Trustees. 
Although 
she first real­ized she was gay in middle school, she said she worried opportunities would be closed off if she came out. 
Her fear of judgment and scrutiny of her sexuality made her eager to leave Saint Mary's senior year, she said. 
Matha went on to law school at Michigan State where she thrived and became close friends with other gay students, one of whom she said became her "gay mentor." 
When she came out to her mother over the phone dur­ing her third year at Michigan State, Matha said her mother replied, ''I've known for awhile and I couldn't love you any less" ­ideal words for a child com­ing out to his or her parents, she said. 
"I do regret that I wasn't more open [at Saint Mary's]," Matha said. 
To ease these campus sexu­ality tensions, panelists agreed that "making sexuali­ty part of the discussion" in classes was one way to create a more open, accepting envi­ronment. 
Saint Mary's will offer its first Introduction to Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgendered Studies class in the spring, SAGA advisor Mary Porter said. 
SAGA President Kristi Allmandinger said she was very pleased with both the turnout for the panel discus­sion and the range of pan­elists that were able to par­ticipate Wednesday, "espe­cially considering it is midterms week." 
SAGA holds meetings every second and fourth Mondays of the month and plans to participate in the National Day of Silence in April. This event asks participants to take a vow of silence for one day to understand how many GLBT individuals feel they do not have a voice in society. 
Contact Meghan Wons at mwons@nd.edu 


Thursday, Occober 12, 2006 

Dow 
11,852.13 -15.04
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,329 140 1,929 2,615,721,890 

fTSE I OO(London) 6,073.50 +0.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  -0.19  -0.08  41.54  
INTEL CP (INTC)  0.00  +0.00  20.89  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +0.20  +0.01  4.98  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -O.S4  -0.15  27.54  
JDS UNIPHASE CP ODSU)  + 1.90  +0.04  2.15  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.76  +0.036  4.784  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.62  +0.030  4.885  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.70  +0.034  4.913  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.94  +0.044  4. 749  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.93  57.59  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +0.30  576.50  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.10  88.48  
Excha  e Rates  
YEN  119.6050  
EURO  0.7978  
POUND  0.5386  
CANADIAN$  1.1377  

IN BRIEF 
McAfee Inc. chief executives resign 
SAN FRANCISCO -The chief executives of McAfee Inc. and CNet Networks Inc. stepped aside Wednesday to atone for stock-option chicanery that occurred on their watch, expanding the list of business leaders swept up in a messy scandal that is erasing profits and spurring government investigations. 
McAfee, a leading maker of anti-virus soft­ware, parted ways with George Samenuk, who retired as its chairman and CEO after nearly six years on the job. The Santa Clara­based company also fired its president, Kevin Weiss. Wednesday's purge wasn't the first at McAfee, which fired its general counsel in May after determining he had been involved in stock-option improprieties. 
CNet, which runs a stable of technology news and entertainment Web sites, accepted the resignation of co-founder Shelby Bonnie, who has been running the San Francisco­based company for the past six years. 
McAfee named board member Dale Fuller as its interim CEO and president, and tabbed Charles Robel as its non-executive chairman. 
Wall Street sets fourth record close 
NEW YORK -The Dow Jones industrial average set its fourth record close in two weeks Tuesday, finishing less than a point above its previous closing high. 
After a lackluster day of trading, broader indexes also rose slightly, putting the Standard & Poor's 500 back near its 5 1/2 year highs. 
Investors nudged stocks slightly higher in gains in advance of Alcoa's after-the-bell quarterly financial report which traditionally marks the start of earnings season. 
"If I'm an investor and I didn't already buy, I don't know what's going to make me buy now," said Doug Sandler, chief equity strate­gist, Wachovia Securities. "We'll wait for the facts to come in when earnings come out." 
The Dow Jones industrials rose 9.36, or 
0.08 percent, to close at 11,867.17.1ts previ­ous record, set Thursday, was 11,866.69. 
Wall Street is split between those who feel stocks are at a top and those who feel the market has further to run. 
r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Alaskan oil pipeline shut down 

300,000 barrel-a-day loss has yet ·to rattle oil markets or raise prices 
Associated Press 

ANCHORAGE, Alaska ­America's largest oil field will produce very few bar­rels over the next several days as operator BP scram­bles to fix an electrical problem. 
So far, the loss of 300,000 barrels a day of Alaskan output has not rattled oil markets. 
BP PLC said electrical shorts that shut down Prudhoe Bay on Tuesday followed three days of dust storms, and then rain, coating insulators on high­voltage lines with mud. 
The London-based com­pany, which has faced intense criticism following two oil leaks in Alaska over the past seven months, said the shutdown of its power system was not a reflection of aging infrastructure. 
• BP spokesman Daren Beaudo pinned the problem on a "highly unusual weather event," partly attributable to the lack of snow in the region. But at least one industry analyst questioned whether BP's latest troubles could be blamed entirely on weather. "People who are bad car­penters hit themselves on the thumb repeatedly," said Michael Lynch, president of Strategic Energy and Economic Research Inc. of safety," he said. The vast Prudhoe Bay transit pipeline there. Winchester, Mass. The electrical system has field covers 3,336 square Most of the electricity at Lynch acknowledged that been partially re-energized, miles. Alaska's three major Prudhoe Bay comes from a BP faces brutal weather Beaudo said, though that oil companies, operator BP, natural gas-fired turbine conditions on Alaska's power has been devoted to ConocoPhillips and Exxon that produces 168 North Slope and that he did the living quarters of its Mobil Corp., own 98 per­megawatts of power. The not know the details sur­workers. Backup genera­cent of the field. Production system has 13 substations rounding the recent power tors also are in use. Monday was a 350,000 and miles of power lines. failure. However, he added, For unrelated reasons, barrels per day but that fell The system shorted just "things like this should be the price of oil fell to its to just 35,000 barrels before 3 a.m. Tuesday. dealt with pretty quickly, lowest level this year on Tuesday after the power Wind gusts peaked at 66 generally, or not even hap­Wednesday. outage. mph midday Monday, pen." Crude oil futures have Prudhoe Bay had pro­according to the National Beaudo said the company plunged by more than $20 duced more than 400,000 Weather Service. is systematically removing a barrel since mid-July barrels a day -or 8 per­Cleanup plans call for the mud from the insula­amid rising global invento­cent of total U.S. output -crews in helicopters to use tors and that the oil field ries, concerns about slow­until leaks and the·discov­a hot water solution from will come on line in phases, ing economic growth and a ery of pipe corrosion led the air to wash the ceramic but he could not specify milder-than-anticipated the company to begin shut­insulators. when production will be hurricane season. On ting down the eastern half Trying to power up too fully restored. Wednesday, doubts grew of the field Aug. 6. quickly could cause a 
"It's going to take some that there is a consensus The eastern side of the repeat of Tuesday's event, time. Don't know how long. within OPEC for an imme­field was restarted late last with the entire system We'll do it as quickly as we diate output cut, sending oil month as the company shorting out again, Beaudo can. The emphasis is on futures to $57.59 a barrel. began to clean out the said. 

AT&Tto acquire BellSouth Corp. 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Justice Department gave its unconditional approval to AT&T Inc.'s buyout of BellSouth Corp. on Wednesday, a coast-to-coast behemoth that would be the largest U.S. provider of telephone, wireless and broad­band Internet services. 
The decision cheered company executives, but outraged consumer advocates and two members of the Federal Communications Commission. The five members scheduled a vote Thursday on whether the $78.5 billion deal should go forward, but that could be pushed back and one commis­
sioner may sit out ·because of a conflict of interest. 
Despite the scale of the pur­chase, the Justice Department found no potentially adverse effects on competition. 
The decision was immediately criticized by FCC member Jonathan S. Adelstein, a Democrat who called it "a reckless abandon­ment of DoJ's responsibility to pro­tect competition and consumers." 
Michael Copps, the commission's other Democrat, said the "Justice Department has packed its bags and walked out on consumers and small businesses by refusing to impose even a single condition in the largest telecom merger the nation has ever seen." 
If the deal wins final government approval, the merger would give San Antonio-based AT&T Inc. total control over the nation's largest cellular provider, Cingular Wireless, a joint venture of the two companies that serves 57.3 million customers. 
"After thoroughly investigating AT&T's proposed acquisition of BellSouth, the antitrust division determined that the proposed transaction is not likely to reduce competition substantially," said Assistant Attorney General Thomas 0. Barnett. He heads the section that examines proposed mergers. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 
Thursday, October 12, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gorrumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither 
Movies, makeouts, moldable minds 
Everyone knows that when a mem­ber of the opposite sex asks you to "watch a movie," you will-more likely than not -watch little more than the opening credits. 
Everyone also knows that when a professor announces that you'll be watching a movie in class, you will -more likely than not -­once again watch little more than the opening credits (this time, of course, because you'll fall asleep). 

While in these instances, movies merely provide the background noise for a good make­out or for the make-up of a sleepless night, this is not the extent of movies' effect on society. After all, there's a critical age group out there that does watch movies from opening credits to closing credits. 
Humans are visual and aural learn­ers. That's why the Schoolhouse Hock series is an elementary school teacher's best friend. And over a decade after elementary school, can't we all still sing the jingles? 
"Conjunction Junction, what's your function?" Or "Hey, there's a tele­graph line. You got yours, and I got mine. It's called the nervous system." Or even ''I'm just a bill. Yes, I'm only a bill. And I'm sitting here on Capitol Hill." And better yet -years later, we still remember a conjunction's function. 
Movies work the same way. In the wake of the highest grossing movie of all time, "Titanic," people belted out Celine Dion's "My Heart Will Go On," whispered, ''I'll never let go. I'll never let go," and papered their bed­room walls with posters of Hollywood's newest heartthrob, Leonardo DiCaprio. And better yet-­years later, the lessons of "Titanic" are still afloat. 
Case in point: Spring break. I heard about a girl who found herself on a ship in the middle of the ocean, where she met a Leonardo DiCaprio­like boy from another cabin. The girl then brought the boy to the back of the boat and made out under the stars, as she later reported, "just like in Titanic." 

But in real life, college students don't typically make out under the stars on the back of a boat, do they? Not exactly. Hemember, they tend to make out during movies that they don't watch. But maybe this girl's spring break experience is a sign of a changing of the tide. 
Think about it. It's simple logic, really. For the most part, movies are based on real life. To attract an audi­ence, however, they must be slightly more dramatic than real life. Young moldable minds watch these movies, soak up their "lessons" and believe that they paint an accurate picture of life. These youngsters grow up to be slightly more dramatic than those before them, and their behavior thus becomes the new norm. Then to hold an audience, movies 
must, in turn, become ... but even then, you the divorce rate in this slightly more dramat­country is already so
had to leave so much 
ic. And the cyele con­high that a few
room for the Holy 
tinues. impromptu marriages Hemember middle Spirit that it wasn't couldn't hurt it too school? It was when really dancing. much. 
you'd announce that you were "going out" with so-and-so, and your parents would ask, "So you're going out, huh? Where are you going?" Then you'd lecture them on how that wasn't the way it worked-­that you didn't actually go anywhere, or do anything, for that matter, except for perhaps slow-dance to K­Ci & JoJo's "All My Life" at the mid­dle school dance (but even then, you had to leave so much room for the Holy Spirit that it wasn't really danc­ing). And you certainly didn't make out during movies (perhaps you held hands in the back of a theater, but that was risky business); instead, you actually watched them. 
When we were in middle school, we watched "Titanic." But what about those who are just a few years younger -those who watched "The Notebook" during their formative, mind-molding years? Will they grow up believing that their summer fling is their one true love? Will they pine away for that person about whom members of the "Titanic" generation would simply say, "Uh, that was just a summer thing"? 
Or what about those middle school­ers who watched "Love Actually"? Will they be convinced that they share a special connection with the Portuguese exchange student with whom they've never shared an intel­ligible word, and then learn an entirely new language, only to ask -­before saying anything else in the exchange student's native tongue -­if the student would like to get mar­ried? 
And would that be the worst thing that ever happened? Not exactly. I mean, who doesn't like to make out 
under the stars? Who 
doesn't want summer 
to last forever? And 
We just need to keep 
today's middle school­
ers away from daytime 

television. After all, it's good if kids learn from Schoolhouse Hock. It's even all right if they learn from movies. 
But if they start learning from soap operas, then we'll all be in trouble. 
Liz Coffey is a senior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor. Her column appears every other 
· Thursday. She can be reached at ecoffey@nd. edu The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advenisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Df the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofaU opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obscrvcr (USPS 599 1-4000) is publbhcd Monday through Friday exc-ept during exam and \-':;lt:ation perimk A suhlicrip1ion 10 The OhKrvcr is $100 for one academil· pr; $55 for urtc ~mc:m:r. 
The Ob:.rm:r is published at: P€>STMASTER 014 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
None Dame. IN 46'556-0779 The Observer 

Periodical postage paid at NQtre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 Sourh Dining Hall 
None Dame, IN 46556-o7'79 
The Observer is .t member ofthe Associa1cd Press. All reproduction rights are resc:rvcd. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Death penalty editorial series hardly 'fair and balanced' 
Great job with your fair and bal­anced three-part series "examining the death penalty," entirely written by the two co-presidents of an anti­death-penalty campaign. In the same vein, maybe you can get the presi­dents of College Democrats to write you a series "examining" the upcom­ing elections. 
In all seriousness, as journalists you should want to give your readers something more than one side of a debate. 
Or, if you do choose to publish the views of a single group alone, at least you should not pass those polemics along under the heading "examina­tion" --as though they were inves­tigative journalism and not mere 
political argumentation. 
Alan Robinson alumnus class of 2002 Oct. I! 

Hire professors based on merit 
Heligion should not be a deciding factor in the hiring of new professors, evcm at a Catholic university. By using religious quotas and seeking to bias the faculty more heavily towards Catholicism, Notre Dame is not doing itself any favors; rather, it is shutting doors that should be opened to increasing diversity of viewpoint and enriching the quality of education on campus. Notre Dame's desire to main­tain its Catholic identity is understand­able and important, but this cannot be done at the expense of its identity as a place of learning. The Catholic world­view is ubiquitous on campus, even with a "mere" 54 percent Catholic fac­ulty, and eliminating ideas that are simply different--whether they are complementary or conflicting --is not the only way to ground education in moral character or encourage stu­dents to serve the church. Notre Dame's Catholic affiliation is an absolutely essential part of its identity and provides a valuable perspective of the world to its students, but is not the only perspective. Perhaps the other 46 percent of faculty has a valuable con­tribution to make, too. 
Claire McGathey sophomore Lewis Hall Oct.lO 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Sports  OBSERVER POLL  
Kelly Meehan  Tim Dougherty  
Maureen Mullen  Deirdre Krasula  
Liz Harter  Ken Fowler  Are you following the  
Viewpoint  Scene  No. 1-ranked Notre Dame  
Alyssa  Erin McGinn  women's soccer team?  
Brauweiler  
Graphics Jeff Albert  Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m.  
at www.ndsmcobserver.com  

,SnbmitaLetter
I t·· ·. ··. ····b····...··· . ~·d·········. ~ ······.·····.. ••. ····· .·· ...• 
1ot · en·ttorat
! . .. .. .. . ····· ......... ·. ·.· ·. .·. 
!I www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"If our elaborate and dominating bodies are given us to be denied at every turn, ij our nature is always wrong and wicked, how ineffectual we are ­like fishes not meant to swim." 
Cyril Connolly English man of letters 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, October 12, 2006 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Calls for pep rally reform 
Let the band fire up the students 
Regarding pep rally spirit, another feature of the rallies of the 60s and 70s was that the campus was completely silent on Fridays at 6:30. When the huge doors from the old band build­ing were kicked open loudly by the Irish Guard (in "civies") making a loud "boom" across the campus. The drums would kick in seconds later and the band poured out onto the quad at full volume. 
They paraded from dorm to dorm like pied pipers bringing out everyone and lighting up the campus like a torch. Screaming students would jump out of second story dorm windows to join the pandemonium. Then the band would march over to the fieldhouse, Stepan Center or later the "Bra," with the student body in tow, to hold a fired-up rally with a student body that was already lit up for a fight. Turn the guard and the band loose again! 
Terry Butz Notre Dame fan Oct.10 

Rethink stadium seating 
I have read with great inter­stadium. Please do what I sug­est the call for the return of gested last year. pep rallies to the Stepan The players should face the Center. I, too, was an ND stu­tunnel, and the fans will then dent of the 70s, and I agree basically surround them on the Stepan pep rally experi­the north end of the stadium. ence was great. But I just This will create a noise experi­think the place is too small, ence as close as possible to and I thought the same thing Stepan, but will allow every­back then. It is also difficult to one to attend. And I totally get to for alumni, with limited agree with the person who parking in the area. said this dorm versus dorm 
My recommendation is the thing, at a pep rally, is the same one I made before the dumbest idea I have ever first stadium pep rally last heard of. year. I knew at the time they Good luck! were going to mess this up by having the players face the Jim Blase press box, which only has the alumnus effect of spreading fans out class of 1981 over the entire west side of the Oct.11 
Bring back the good ol' days 
I have just read the Oct. 11 Letter to the Editor from Jeanine Sterling. She couldn't have been more correct. When I arrived on campus in September 1969 the first pep rally, other than the Dillon Rally, was an event that exploded. The band marched around the campus, and students followed like the children of Hamelin following the pied piper. Personalities like Rich "Jean Louie" Sherman and Mike "Tunes" Murphy made the rally an event not to be missed. The team was on the stage in Stepan. Sweat dripped from every body in the place. You could barely move, but you could yell and shout and cheer. Even if you couldn't under­stand what Ara or Yonto or Kelly or Theisman or Zikas were saying, you knew it had to be the truth and to the detriment of whomever had the misfortune to play the Irish the next afternoon. 
As you left, you knew that you had been a part of an event. You were at a level of prepa­ration for the game that you felt you could have played. (Lucky for most of us that there was still 17 or 18 hours before the start of the game!) I know. I'm just another alum (triple domer) reminiscing about "the good ole days" when we walked five miles uphill both ways in the snow to class in September. I know things change. But do they have to change that much? A '70 Dodge Challenger is still a great car ... or a '68 Camaro. That's why Dodge is bringing back the Charger (and the Challenger). That is why there are so many covers of the songs that were new back when pep rallies were pep rallies. If it works for music and cars, why not pep rallies? Go ahead. Ask Coach Weis about the rallies. Then bring them back! 
Bob Scott 
alumnus 
class of 1973 
class of 1975 
class of 1980 
Oct.10 

Band should call students 
to pep rallies 
One more point about pep rallies from an old timer, one who experienced the rallies in the old fieldhouse as a member of the marching band. In those days the band marched around campus past all the dorms on north and south quad, playing the school songs and gathering the students as they passed. There was a "meat squad" of big dudes who marched alongside the band to protect the bandsmen from the raucous students. Toilet paper flew everywhere, not infrequently into the horns of the bandsmen and rattling teeth. 
Upon arrival at the fieldhouse the band and students simultaneously squeezed through the doors into what seemed like an already packed arena (I have no idea where all those people came from) to the sounds of the Victory March. It was a minor riot inside from the time the team arrived until they exited after the Alma Mater. Why can't the band march again and call the students out of their dorms to the rally? 
Jack Fremeau alumnus class of 1971 Oct.10 

Immigration rhetoric exploits fear 
We write to express our deep concerns about two recent com­mercials produced by Rep. Chris Chocola and his opponent Joe Donnelly, each concerning immigration. In both commer­cials, the candidates attack one another with accusations of being an advocate for illegal immigrants. The clear implica­tion of the ads is that to take a humane view to immigration in the United States, and to treat those most affected by the issue with appropriate human digni­ty, is to commit the gravest of errors. In our view, both candi­dates are exploiting fear and prejudice, and in so doing, are failing to address the legitimate political, social and moral issues at stake in the current immigration debate. 
The images are stark: the commercial's written accusa­tions sit alongside heroic-look­ing images of the border patrol, and a stereotypical photo of a group of Hispanic-looking peo­ple lined up against a wall. There is no mistaking the mes­sage: to be a friend to immi­grants is to be an enemy to the good citizens of the United States. Each candidate will be "tougher" than the last on ille­gal immigration. To both candi­dates, we say that the strategy here does not escape the thoughtful and careful voters of this district; even in these times when national security and pride take center stage in the political debate, we will vote with our consciences informed by fact, and we will not be swayed by appeals to our fears. Attempts to stir up certain seg­ments of the electorate who view immigrants as both an economic threat by displacing American workers, and as a threat to national security, are nothing new; many of our anc.estors were targeted by the propaganda of anti-Irish move­ments prior to the Civil War and the anti-Italian movement fol­lowing the First World War. Most of us mourn the sad chap­ter in American history in which we interned both Japanese immigrants and American citizens of Japanese descent in the name of national security. 
We are a country of immi­grants, and we need not fear immigration. We do need lead­ership that presents a thought­ful solution to the current state of immigration law in this coun­try, but one that does so while acknowledging the dignity of immigrants and the significant positive contributions that the immigrant community makes to our nation and indeed to our own cities and towns. We need facts, not fear, and we need to know that the leaders we elect are committed to the same careful, considered approach that we are. I encourage both candidates to give the voters of this district the respect that we deserve; we deserve more than shameless rhetoric that plays on our weakest impulses. 
Jack Coombes sernor off campus Michael Durham Law School alumnus class of 2001 Jennifer Ihns Notre Dame Legal Aid Clinic Rodolfo Monterrosa, Jr. Law School alumnus class of2001 Oct. 9 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 10 
Thursday, October 12, 2006 
CD REVIEWS 

Killers album receives lukewarm reaction 
THE KILLERS STRIKE AGAIN WITH SECOND ALBUM 
By TAE ANDREWS 
Scene Critic 

Prior to the Oct. 2 release of their second album, "Sam's Town," the Killers' lead singer Brandon Flowers pronounced the LP "one of the best albums of the past 20 .years." Frontman self-promotion aside, the record is a solid second go-around, although it fails to live up to Flowers' flowery language. 
Breaking onto the scene in May 2004, the Killers quickly resolved ques­tions of what the commotion was all about with the release of their smash album, the appropriately-named "Hot Fuss." 
The Killers quickly went on a spree -landing two Billboard Hot 100 sin­gles with instant anthems "Somebody Told Me" and "Mr. Brightside." The success rolled over into 2005 with the Killers releasing two more hit singles; "All These Things I've Done" and "Smile Like You Mean It." By the time the dust cleared and the body count was tallied, the Killers had claimed millions of victims in going platinum three times over. 
After gaining notoriety with "Hot Fuss," the Killers strike again in "Sam's Town," their second LP album. 
The Killers Sam'sTown 


However, with their run at the top, the band faced a significant challenge with their follow-up effort: would they be able to sustain their hip indie-rock rev­olution, or would they be victims of their own success? 
Now that the album's out, the answer is a little bit of both. The band's win­ning combination of catchy synthesizer chords, dance-rock guitar riffs and the warbling vocals of lead singer Brandon Flowers hit home again, as evidenced with the success of the album's first single, "When You Were Young." 
However, "Sam's Town" doesn't quite measure up to "Hot Fuss." To their credit, it appears the band chose a 50­50 philosophy in building "Sam's Town" -half of the tracks are in the tried-and-true formula of the first album, and half are musical forays into the unknown. 
Flowers remains a poet on a mis­sion, delivering his soulful lyrics through a megaphone to the congre­gation of rock and roll. With inspired lyrics and the driving guitar of Dave Keuning, the indie-rock band has the perfect blend of nostalgic feel-good and the flash and pizzazz of the bright bill­boards of their Las Vegas hometown. 
That being said, the sophomore album has a much more introspective feel as compared to the freshman fun of the first record. To borrow lyrics made famous from their first album, they may not be soldiers, but they nonetheless have soul. The Killers deli­nitely employ a more creative approach with songs such as "Unele Jonny," "Bones" and two rather bizarre "Enter-" and "Exit-ludes" which welcome the listener to the album and bid them a fond adieu, respectively. 

The band takes some risks and uses more instruments, but undoubtedly some of the tracks will receive mixed reactions, with some people liking the new stuff and some responding to a few out-there concoctions with reac­tions like, "Whoa, easy there Killers." 
It is particularly interesting to. note the various influences on the record. The Internet has been ablaze with crit­ics chirping that "When You Were Young" is an outright mimicry of Bruce Springsteen. In addition, some of the tracks have a Queen-esque feel to them. Without a doubt, this is a hybrid album, both in terms of its influences and its half-anthem, half-explorative nature. 
However, the true test of a great album is its playability -the ability to listen without wanting to skip over songs. The first album had it, but this one isn't quite up to the same stan­dard. That being said, "Sam's Town" isn't quite an album to die for, but still has more than enough killer singles to keep campus quads rocking from now until well into 2007. For diehard Killers fans, the band is performing at the Congress Theatre in Chicago, Ill. Oct. 17. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew 1 @nd.edu 
THE KILLERS FAIL TO STOP HEARTS WITH LATEST ALBUM 
In doing so, "Enterlude" leads right into "When You Were Young." The cho­rus and the main riff are notice­ably repetitive, but the bridge and instrumental breakdown seg­ments add to the value of the song. However, don't expect this single to match the extended success of their previous singles, "Somebody Told Me" or "Mr. Brightside." 
With a punchy, yet melodic, instru­mental line and quality verses, the track "Head My Mind" well deserves playtimfL It draws from the elements that made "!lot Fuss" such a success, with an intensity that grows as the song progresses, from subtle guitar to "rock out" mode and back again. 
"Uncle Jonny," with its heavy repeating guitar riff and drums, high­lights the Killers' roots in 80s roek, while fusing it with lyrical compo­nents reminiscent of David Bowie. The ending features a choral segment sim­ilar to "All These Things I've Done," except abbreviated and lacking the level of crescendo. 
The second single to be released from the album is "Bones." The music video was directed by Tim Burton, and will feature references to his movies. The song itself is upbeat and somewhat quirky, with a blaring syn­thetic horn section. 
It fails to stand out as single-worthy, but a music video by Tim Burton can 
By NATHAN HOGAN Scene Critic 

What's more challenging than taking multiple tests and turning in a project during a stress-filled midterm week? Trying to create a second album that follows a very well received, three­times platinum debut offering would certainly fall into that category. 
This is the task the Killers faced after the success of their 2004 release, "Hot Fuss." Hailing from Las Vegas, the Killers made their mark on the industry with a unique blend of synthesizer, guitar, drums and distinct vocals from lead singer Brandon Flowers. Their latest release, "Sam's Town," attempts to continue their sue­cess. 
The opening title track, "Sam's Town," features the expected Killers sound -a mix of synthesizer and gui­tar colliding to form the driving beat and high-energy rock song. Flowers does not disappoint, as he again brings his personal flair to the tune's melody. 
Following the title track, the Killers decided to add a clever little piece entitled "Enterlude." Together with the closing track, "Exitlude," these tracks serve as handy bookends for the album. 
Although these two tracks, especial­ly "Enterlude," could be dismissed as filler tracks, they are amusing in their own respect and enhance the overall flow of the album. 


make any song instantly better. 
Given the success of their first album, this offering is not a failure. It has enough notable tracks to make it worthy of purchasing. 
The most interesting and appealing tracks are definitely not the singles in this case, as "Head My Mind" and "Uncle Jonny" offer much more musi­cally. 
The Killers' catchy and zany lyrics added to the enjoyment and success of "Hot Fuss." Their latest release fails to match the same level of lyricism, and this detracts from the overall value of the CD. The signature tracks lack the same level of punch found in the first album. 
Overall, this release is relatively safe -aimed more at perpetuating the basic Killers sound of the first album. 
Fans will enjoy the CD based on the Killers' brand of music alone, but newcomers would be much better off getting the original album. 
Contact Nathan Hogan at nhogan2@nd.edu 



THE OBSERVER 
CENE 

What happens when TV and movies cross paths 
By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
Homakes and crossovers between television shows and movies, much like night.'i at The Linebacker, do not typically end well. Atrocities on the silver screen, like "J,ost in Space" (1998) and "Scooby­Doo" (2002), or on the 

Erin McGinn

small screen. Assistant 
like 
Scene Editor 

"Ferris Bueller" ( 199()), leave a bad taste and a desire to never view another crossover again. 
Where did this desire to mix media begin? Arguably, the trend gained ground with the Star Trek franchise. With six difl"er­ent television series and ten feature films, the fran­chise has been jumping media since it first began in the 1960s -and with mixed results. "The Next Generation" (1987-94) was incredibly popular during it.'i seven-year run, where­as "Enterprise" ratings declined rapidly during its four-year tenure. likewise, the movies have had some success, like "The Wrath of Khan" (1982), while others were deemed fail­ures -'The Final Frontier" (1989). 
A'i much of the Star Trek world demonstrates, the crossovers between movies and television do not always end badly ­and sometimes they even improve upon the original source material. Several television shows have had movie extensions that have met with box-oflice success, including "Beavis and Butthead Do America" and "The X-Files." However, because of the stigma attached to crossovers, many movie­to-television gems fall through the cracks. 
The short-lived "The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles" was a critical win and is soon to be released on DVD. And even though it only lasted for two episodes on the air, "Clerks -The Animated Series" has had great DVD sales and is highly popular amongst Kevin Smith fans. 
Fortunately, some of the excellent television shows developed from movies are granted the success and recognition that they deserve. The well-received 1994 movie "Stargate" led to the creation of "Stargate SG-1," which saw a very successful 1 0-season run. Although difl"ering from the film on minor counts, the series picks up where the film ended with the team exploring other worlds through the star­gate. A second television series, "Stargate: Atlantis," is currently entering its third season on the Sci-Fi channel. 
It's even possible for a terrific television show to develop from unsuccessful source material. In 1992, "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" hit the big screen and was moderately successful as a horror movie parody. 
Creator Joss Whedon, who wasn't granted the control he desired over the feature film, came back in 1997 with "Buffy the Vampire Slayer," the tele­vision series that aired on the WB and UPN for seven highly successful and criti­cally acclaimed seasons. Much improved from the movie version, "Buffy" combined multiple genres in a serialized format that drew positive criticism from audiences, reviewers and even academies. 
The show follows the adventures in adolescence of Buffy and her friends, with the supernatural ele­ments adding emphasis to the teen angst and anguish, which is at the core of the series. The series followed Buffy through high school, col­lege and the early years of adulthood. The success of "Buffy" Jed to the spin-off show "Angel," which aired on the WB for five seasons. 
Whedon, having worked in both film and television, decided to cross back into movies after his show "Firefly" was dropped by FOX and came back with the movie "Serenity" as a continuation of the series. Although it met with great reviews, "Firefly" was can­celled -only to be resur­rected in movie form due to its astonishing DVD sales. 
A trend not soon to be abandoned, this past sum­mer saw the film "Miami Vice" meeting with mixed success. Currently show­ing on NBC is the televi­sion series "Friday Night Lights," which is based on the 2004 movie and receiving promising reviews. 
The mixed success of these crossovers is what's leaving fans of "The Simpsons" and "24" feel­ing skeptical, as "The Simpsons" movie opens in theatres next summer and the "24" movie enters pro­duction. 
Hopefully these films will be the next "South Park" -not the next "Wild Wild West." 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 

Photo oourtesy of smgfan.oom "Buffy the Vampire Slayer," one of the best movie-turned-series, follows Willow, Xander, Buffy, Mr. Giles and Cordelia through the perils of high school and beyond. 
ON CAMPUS 
DPAC Classic toO 

. ''Mon Oncle" In this it~£la:tim.ed satire till~<l.with absurdicy, Monsieur Hulot finds it hard to cope With the te(t~~!J~ogic~l world.<Jfhis sister and her family.
(French lru:t~age With English subtitles.) < Saturday: 3Ptn Browning Cinema~ $3 
DPACMovies "Unknown \1\'hite Male" "Unknow-n White Male~is a ~ocumentary that relates the story of 
Dou.g ~ru....·.c·····.e··· .who.~after los... ~...·.n.. g h1s !ll.emory.· , must rele!lrn his ~ntiref.ast
whlle evaluating what to do With the chance to remvent h1msel . :f:l'i.(lay: 7,Pm, 10pfl1. "The Brtdesmatd" Phllli. . sin lov~ withSenta, a bridesmaid at his sister's wedding,but soon . mystenes ofSenta's past and the implausibility ofher sto­ries force him to decide how far he will go for love. (French languagewith English subtitles.) 
Saturday:7Pnt,1opm 
Museum ofArt .'? Sabemos. The Huntan Landscape of 
.tgl"atmn to the United States" 
The ·.. . sfeature exhibit raises the issues ofMexican migration to the U.S. through the expression ofChicano/Mexican visual arts. Thursday-Saturday:toam-5pm, Sunday: tpm-5pm, Free 
"Wal-Mart:The High Cost ofLow Price" A docP,1:fl¢ntary that expl()res the possible negative influences W al­~~n ~~~ fiad on famil~~~~~fda~~o~~y, and American values. 
Hesltt.trg Center'fuditorium 
OFF CAMPUS Cinemark.t4 (Matinee: $5.50,.Evening $6.75, FI'lday/Saturday Evemng: $7) <... Opening . ''Man ofthe Year~ 
obbs (Robin "\\Jillimfis),·a contedian and talk.showhost de¢id ()ll a whim to r:qn for president, butthe real surprise cor:.es whe.n. he actually wins. 
. "One Night with the Kin " Nightwith the Kin~" ~ells ~he story of Ha~assah (Tiffany knowt·o· m.·•..o.·st as the Biblical Esther, as she tights to save her people


by first winning thelove ofKing Xerxes (Luke Goss) and then st~!lding up to hhn, . . . .•.. . ·~ e Grudge 2" ·•·••.
•• "~e Grud ..·•.......·..·. t.isnow the t~n ofKaren Davis' (Sarah
r) s1ster, Aubrey (AmberTamblyn), to fight a ""n'"""~.......t-. ethat tills its victims with rage before moving on. .. . ''The Marine" J~hn Triton (John Cena) is discharged against his will from the war 
m Iraqand returns home to find that his wife has been kidnapped and he ntust save her. 
.Erill)1~80 :li~~11touth 
. (} ronGangJackass: Number Two Oren Season 
Schoo for Scoundrels 
Texas ChaiJ1~ttw Massacre: The BeginningThe Departed···The Guardian 
~Wplace 16 (:i¢f()i'e noon: $5,.Before 6pnt: $5.50, 
Aft:e:r.~~:i>!;~!r ID)) 
Employee ofthe Month Facing the Giants TheGrudge2 Jackass: Nuntber 2 Man ofthe Year 
·· TheMarine One Night with the Khlg . Oren Season Schoo for Scoundrels Texas Chainsaw Massacre: The Beginning 

.····Cbtemark Movies····.6 ..(Friday/S.a!Urday after 6pm: $2,Other weekend shoWings: $1.50)
The Antbully ·· ••····· StepUp 

World Trade Center Barnyard: The Original Party Animals Cars Monster House Pulse Superman Returns :ralladega Nights: The Ballad ofRick"J' Bobby 

(AlhnoYies are as off'riday) 
Contact Michelle .Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 12, 2006 
MLB 

Gomez homers to give Tigers 2-0 lead in ALCS 
First Mets, Cardinals NLCS game postponed due to rain in New York 
Associated Press did not pitch during the division 
series sweep of the Minnesota 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Jim Twins. Rogers pitched shutout Leyland trusted his gut and ball against the New York changed designated hitters, Yankees in Game 3. going with little-used Alexis A moment of silence was held Gomez for Game 2 of the before the national anthem for American League champi­Lidle, who most recently onship series. pitched for the Yankees on 
The result: a 2-0 advantage Saturday in Detroit and spent heading home to Motown. the 2001 and '02 seasons in 
Gomez hit a go-ahead, two­Oakland. His picture was run single and later added a shown on the main scoreboard. two-run homer to lead the Both teams did their best to Detroit Tigers to an 8-5 victory focus on baseball and put their over the Oakland Athletics on grief aside for a few hours. Wednesday, a somber night fol­The switch-hitting Bradley lowing the death of former A's homered from both sides of the pitcher Cory Lidle in a plane plate, drove in four runs and crash earlier in the day. managed not to spill coffee on 
Milton Bradley homered starter Esteban Loaiza this twice for the A's, and beat out time. an infield hit with two outs in Eric Chavez also homered for the ninth inning that loaded the the A's, who didn't know until bases. But closer Todd Jones arriving at the ballpark that retired Frank Thomas on a Lidle had been in the small harmless fly for his second save plane. His old Oakland jersey of this postseason. hung near the dugout. 
Leyland, who turned around Hard-throwing Tigers rookie the Tigers in his first season as Justin Verlander struck out six their manager, benched righty and wasn't shaken by an early Marcus Thames and his 26 reg­deficit -and he got plenty of As patient as Detroit has been Friday. Rookie right-hander John ular-season home runs in favor support. in these playoffs, Loaiza threw "That is his fifth day. You've Maine is slated to pitch Game 2 of a player who hadn't been on Curtis Granderson hit a solo more strikes early and retired got to seriously think about for New York. Jeff Suppan had the field in nearly two weeks home run off Huston Street six straight batters after Carlos what that means. It's up for been penciled in for the and spent much of the year at leading off the ninth, Craig Guillen's leadoff double in the grabs in my opinion," St. Louis Cardinals, but he could be Triple-A Toledo. A career minor Monroe had two RBls and second. manager Tony La Russa said. pushed back. leaguer, Gomez had just one Brandon Inge drove in another "My first 30-45 minutes of look­"I don't know what's going to home run in the majors and run at the bottom of the order Mets vs. Cardinals, PPD ing at it, I said I'd probably stay happen. They didn't really say contributed only six RBis in 103 with a sacrifice fly for the wild­The New York Mets might with it. Sitting here for 15, anything yet," Suppan said at-bats this season. card Tigers. have to face Chris Carpenter there's more there. There's a before the postponement. "But 
"We just took a shot that Detroit left the Bay Area with sooner than expected. decision to make, no doubt as far as my preparation, it maybe, by chance, a lefty may the comfort of knowing that all Game 1 of the NL champi­about it." would be the same as if it was­have a shot," Leyland said eight road teams to take a 2-0 onship series between New The Mets will stay with Tom n't getting rained out." beforehand. lead in LCS history have gone York and St. Louis was post­Glavine in the opener, and the Minutes before the game was 
Leyland already had to on to reach the World Series. poned Wednesday night 40-year-old left-bander said he called, La Russa said a rainout reshuffle his lineup to replace The A's took an early lead by because of a steady rain, giving expects to come back and pitch probably wouldn't alter his Sean Casey after the first base­getting a hit in their first oppor­the Cardinals a chance to pitch on only three days' rest in a rotation at all, explaining that man injured his calf in tunity with a runner in scoring their ace on full rest in Game 2. potential Game 5. he didn't think there was any Tuesday's opener. The moves position _ in Game 1, they tied The best-of-seven series will "I've done it before. I know benefit in switching pitchers paid off and the Tigers won a postseason record by going now begin Thursday night, and what to expect, how to prepare and he thought Carpenter was their fifth straight postseason hitless in 13 at-bats in those Game 2 at Shea Stadium is to from tomorrow's start to my a better choice for Game 3 ­game. situations. be played Friday -which was next start knowing it's going to and a possible Game 7. 
Game 3 in the best-of-seven But Oakland couldn't hold supposed to be an off day in the be on short rest. But you still But after the postponement, series is Friday at Detroit's this edge. series. have to go out there and do it," La Russa sounded as though he Comerica Park, featuring Rich Both teams brought their Carpenter had been slated to Glavine said. "The most impor­might change his mind. Harden for Oakland against infields in with a runner on start Game 3 on Saturday, tant game for me is tomorrow, "There have been times an former A's pitcher Kenny third and one out in the first when the series shifts to St. and trying to win that game for important decision was made Rogers. two innings, apparently antici­Louis. But the 2005 NL Cy us -then worry about starts I because of coincidence, and the 
Harden, who returned to pating a low-scoring pitcher's Young Award winner would be may have after that." coincidence is we got rained make three late-season starts duel. working on his regular four Jeff Weaver was to get the out, and it's Chris' fifth day," La after missing more than three Instead, the Tigers' bats came days of rest if the Cardinals ball for St. Louis in Game 1, as Russa said. "So that's why you months with an elbow injury, up big in the fourth. decide to bump him up to originally planned. can't dismiss it lightly." 
\'­


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
House for home games. 4 doors Walking distance to ND. FOR SALE: UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do from ND. Call Gary at 574·993· 631·766-7637. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS. not go it alone. 
WANTED FoR SALE 2208. BEST PRICES. If you or someone you love needs 
House Available for 07-08 Year. 57 4-232-2378. confidential support or assistance, FALL WORK $15.50 base-appt. Rental Homes for Sale in good con-HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 Close to Campus. Just Renovated please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­Flexible schedules. dition. Bedrooms to Brand New Condition. Open to Travel with STS 7819. No exp. needed, Make $100 to $400+ per month per www. NDstudentrentals.com groups of 9-11 Students. Contact To this years top 10 Spring Break For more information, see our bi-Customer sales/service, conditions home. MacSwain@ 9mail.com destinations! weekly ad in The Observer. apply, Own up to 19 homes with little Charming 4-bdrm 2 bath home cur-Best deals guaranteed! All ages 17+. money down with good credit. rently rented to SMC students. Highest rep commissions. Spring Break 2007 Celebration. Call Today Call Kathy w/Preferred Properties at Available 07-08 or 08-09. $385/ea + TICKETS Visit: 20th Anniversary w/Sun Splash 574-273-3835. (574) 292-8177 utilities. Updated & as cute as can www.ststravel.com or Tours. Free trip on every 12 before 
Email PreferredSB@aol.com be! Safe area. John 574-274-5692. WANTED: Call: Nov. 1. FALL WORK $15.50 base-appt. Notre Dame tickets. 1-800-648-4849. Free Meals & Parties, Hottest Deals Flexible schedules, no exp. needed, 2 rooms in private home w/separate 251-1570 Great group discounts. Ever. customer sales/service, conditions entrance for football weekends. Group Discounts on 6 or more.
FoR RENT 
apply, All ages 17+, Shared bath. FOR SALE: Need UCLA tix. Call816-560-2856. Hottest Spring Break Destinations. Call Today 45 minutes from Notre Dame Close to ND. NDTICKETS. 1800-426-7710. 57 4-273-3835. Stadium. $125.00/night. Year round 574-259-8603. 232-0964 www.sunsplashtours.com 
cabins Sleep six. Call Lumberjack CASHIERS NEEDED. APPLY IN Resort 269-646-2181. Rooms for rent for football week-WANTED: PERSONALS On the new hundred dollar bill the PERSON. UNIVERSITY ends. Close to campus. FOOTBALL TICKETS. time on the clock tower of MARATHON. 405 933N IN ROSE-BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam-Caii574-243-0658. TOP DOLLAR PAID. Fall Break is almost here! Independence Hall is 4:10. LAND. HOURS WILL VARY AND pus homes & weekend rentals. NOBODY WILL PAY MORE. Get happy people NO CALLS. Bluegoldrentals.com Home for Football weekends. 3 574-288-2726. Seriously No word rhymes with month 
BR,Full Bsement, 


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, October 12, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
Notable Deaths of Sports 
Figures In Plane Crashes 
year victims association 
1931 Knute Rockne Head coach, Notre Dame Football 
1958 23 players, staff Manchester United and coaches 
1961 18 athletes United States Figure Skating 
1969 Rocky Marciano Professional boxer 
1970 31 players, staff Wichita State and coaches Football 
1970 35 pIayers, staff Marshall Football and coaches 
1972 Roberto Clemente Right fielder, Pittsburgh Pirates 
1979 Thurman Munson Catcher, New York Yankees 
1980 Robert "Bo" Rein Head coach, LSU Football 
1999 Payne Stewart PGA Tour Goller, U.S. Open Champion 
2006 Cory Lidle Pitcher, New York Yankees 
Cory Lidle's Career Statistics 
year team IP W-L ERA 
1997 NYM 81.2 1-2. 3.53 
1998 Did Not Play ­

1999 TB 5.0 1·0 7.20 
2000 TB 96.2 4-6 5.03 
2001 Oak 188 13·6 3.59 
2002 Oak 192 8·10 3.89 
2003 Tor 192.2 12-15 5.75 
2004 Cin 149 7-10 5.32 
2004 Phi 62.1 5·2 3.90 
2005 Phi 184.2 13-11 4.53 
2006 Phi 125.1 8·7 4.74 
2006 NYY 45.1 4·3 5.16 
Totals 1322.2 82-72 4.57 
Reactions to Lidle's Death 
"Spending the last few months as Cory's teammate, I came to know him as agreat man. While he was known as a baseball player, he was, more importantly, a husband and father and, at atime like this, I want to share my deepest sympathies with his wife Melanie, his son Christopher and all those who know and loved him." -Yankees captain Derek Jeter 
"I have no words.! just have very strong emotions. It's just sadder than sad. He was avery hard worker, very compelilive .... You want to find out that maybe it's not true. -Mets pitching coach Rick Peterson 
"11 just kind of gave me goose bumps. I was real 
good friends with him. We played golf all the lime 
when we were on the road. .. . When you lose a 
friend like that, it makes you realize how quick things 
can go."-Cardinals pitcher Mark,Mulder 
"When I heard the news, I was shocked.... Cory was a true professional who gave his all every time he went to the mound. My deepest sympathy goes out to his family."-Phillles manager Charlie Manuel 
around the dial 
NCAA FooTBALL Virginia Tech at Boston College 7:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB PLAYOFFS Cardinals at Mets 8 p.m., FOX 
MLB 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK -When Cory Lidle walked into the New York Yankees' club­house for the first time this summer, Jason Giambi was elated to see his old friend. 
The pair were teammates at South Hills High School in West Covina, Calif., and Giambi was among the first to express sadness and condolences Wednesday after the pitcher apparently died when his plane crashed into a Manhattan high-rise condominium. 
"Right now, I am really in a state of shock," Giambi said in a statement. "I have known Cory and his wife Melanie for over 18 years and watched his son grow up. We played high school ball together and have remained close throughout our careers. We were excit­ed to be reunited in New York this year and I am just devastated to hear this news." 
Lidle also was mourned by Yankees owner George Steinbrenner, who lost Yankees captain Thurman Munson in a 1979 plane crash. 
"This is a terrible and shocking tragedy that has stunned the entire Yankees organization," Steinbrenner said. 
Former New York City Mayor Rudolph Giuliani had watched several of Lidle's games with the Yankees after the team acquired him from Philadelphia on July 30. 
"Having seen him pitch for the Yankees in Detroit just four days ago, it is very difficult to comprehend that I was seeing a young man in the prime of his life play his very last game," Giuliani said. 
Yankees manager Joe Torre said he was with pitching coach Ron Guidry and bench coach Lee Mazzilli when he heard the news, "and we were just stunned." 
"Cory's time with the Yankees was short," Torre said, "but he was a good teammate and a great competitor. My heart goes out to his family." 
New York Mets coach Manny Acta said he lives in the East Side building that Lidle's plane crashed into. Unsure whether he would be able to get into the building, Acta said the Mets found him a place to stay. 
"It's not just about him. It's about the pilot, the co­pilot, and everyone else in the building to think about," Acta said. 
The news arrived at Shea Stadium as the New York Mets and St. Louis Cardinals prepared for the opener of the NL champi­onship series, which was rained out. 
IN BRIEF 

Philadelphia finds answer U.S. Open chamP-to)!s fellow Detroit fan in famous brawl 
for CSKA Moscow, Langdon Russian in Kremlin Cup gets bad rap in court 
COLOGNE, Germany -Allen MOSCOW -Maria Sharapova, DETHOIT -A Pistons fan involved Iverson scored 28 points Wednesday playing her first match since win­in the infamous brawl at The Palace of to help the Philadelphia 76ers defeat ning the U.S. Open, beat fellow Auburn Hills two years ago was paint­CSKA Moscow 85-71 and win a four­Russian Ekaterina Bychkova 6-4, 7-ed as a disruptive drunk by a defense team basketball tournament. 5 Wednesday to reach the quarterfi­lawyer in the fan's lawsuit against 
Samuel Dalembert added 15 points nals at the Kremlin Cup. Indiana Pacers forward Jermaine and 18 rebounds for the 76ers. Among the men, top-seeded O'Neal and the team. 
Iverson had more free throw Nikolay Davydenko defeated Pacers lawyer Steven Potter, of attempts (17) than the entire Moscow Teimuraz Gabashvili 6-4, 6-2 to Auburn Hills, told jurors in the first team (15). He made 12 and added advance to the quarters in another day of testimony Wednesday that nine assists. match between Russians. Palace security had repeatedly con­
"We just want to get used to win­Davydenko, the 2004 champion, is fronted Charles Haddad, 23, of Burt, ning games," Iverson said. "Our con­looking for his third title this season about his behavior at Pistons games fidence is up a lot more after losing and a spot in the eight-player and had decided the night of the brawl the first game. So was our defense." Tennis Masters Cup in China in to revoke his season tickets. 
The Sixers were in command the November. O'Neal admitted that he punched entire game, except briefly in the In the day's big upsets, two Haddad during the Nov. 19, 2004, second quarter when Euroleague Russians were eliminated -third­brawl, which was sparked when champion CSKA Moscow took a 24-seeded Svetlana Kuznetsova and another fan threw a cup of beer that 23 lead. But the 76ers went on a 15-second-seeded Dmitry Tursunov. hit Pacers player Ron Artest, who now 0 run and held CSKA scoreless for Vera Zvonareva defeated plays for the Sacramento Kings. more than five minutes. Kuznetsova 6-1, 6-3, and Ukraine's O'Neal said he was trying to protect 
Trajan Langdon led CSKA with 16 Sergiy Stakhovsky downed another teammate, former Pacer points. Tursunov 7-5, 4-6, 7-6 (4). Anthony Johnson. 
page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, October 12, 2006 
HOCKEY 
Condra will lead 
Irish in opener 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
It's time to fire up the Zamboni. 

Notre Dame begins the regular season tonight when it takes the ice against Minnesota State-Mankato at 7:35 in the Joyce Center. 
In his second year at Notre Dame, coach Jeff Jackson leads an Irish team with eight returning seniors on the roster. Last year, the team finished with a record of 13­19-4, which earned it a CCHA play­offs berth. 
Notre Dame got off to a strong start this season with a 9-0 exhibi­tion rout of the University of Wmdsor. The match was the only game atmosphere the Irish have seen going into tonight's contest, since a shortened preseason pre­vented them from scheduling other scrimmages or even a Blue and Gold game. 
"The timeline didn't really allow for [a Blue and Gold game]," Jackson said. "We only had six practices before our first game." 
Despite the quick start, the team looked prepared against their Canadian opponents. Sophomore center Erik Condra -last season's rookie of the year -captured his first career hat trick to lead the Irish in scoring. Freshman center Dan Kissel also notched two goals in his collegiate debut. 
"Kissel had some good goals," Condra said. "He's got some touch around the net and he is quick." 
Jackson and his staff elected to give the freshmen shifts over some of the more experienced seniors in order to get a good look at them in the preseason. Accordingly, many of the top Irish players will be play­ing in their first complete game tonight. 
The Mavericks split two games against Notre Dame last season with both teams beating each other on the road. The Irish took the first contest 3-2 on Dec. 6, but four days later the Mavericks evened the series with a 2-1 victory in the Joyce Center. 

Mankato will start sophomore Dan Tormey between the posts. Tormey started 31 games last year and ended with a 2.86 goals against average -leaving a lasting impression on Jackson. 
"A year ago at this time it was [Mankato's] goaltending that I thought was really good," Jackson said. 
Notre Dame's offense will try to flash the siren early and often by taking more shots than in years past. Last year the team's total of 922 shots was over 100 less than their opponents. 
"We have too many guys that are not selfish and some times as a scorer you have to be a little self­ish," Jackson said. 
The coach hopes that a little extra pressure will allow his team to get Mankato's goalie early in the game. 
Opposing Tormey in net will most likely be senior Dave Brown. The Irish goalie will be making his first start since injuring his ankle during a playoff game with Alaska­Fairbanks last March. 
"Anytime you get hurt it is always there but I am putting it behind me," Brown said. 'Tm just going to try to not think about it anymore," 
The senior did not receive much of a test in the Wmdsor game, see­ing only eight shots in two periods of work. Sophomore Jordan Pearce completed the shutout with four saves in the third. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

ANNA AMBERKAR!The Observer Irish center Jason Paige drives to the goal in Notre Dame's 9-0 win over Windsor Oct. 6. Paige assisted freshman Dan VeNard's goal. 
LPGA 
Wie returns to site of career debut 
Associated Press 
PALM DESERT, Calif. ­Michelle Wie celebrated her 17th birthday Wednesday. Next up is an anniversary. 
One year ago at the Samsung World Championship, the 6-foot teenager from Hawaii stead­ied her nerves and ripped a 3­wood down the middle of the fairway to embark on a pro­fessional career that was loaded with expectations and perhaps more hype than any player in LPGA Tour history. 
Expectations remain high. The scrutiny is still severe. And one year later, the tro­phy-case remains bare. 
"Every week I go into, I want to win," Wie said at Bighorn Golf Club, where her family has bought a second home. ''I'm not going to force it to happen, because it will happen." 
But with each tournament -14 as a pro, plus a U.S. Open qualifier -the question of "when" slowly is shifting to "if." 
Strangely enough, the Samsung World Championship with its 20-player field and no cut is the only LPGA Tour event where Wie failed to earn a paycheck. She finished in fourth place, 10 shots behind Annika Sorenstam, but an improper drop in the third 
, round that was pointed out a day later led to Wie being dis­qualified. Memories are mixed at Bighorn given a rocky start to her career. And even her first full year as a pro is bound to get mixed reviews. Wie has played only seven LPGA Tour events this year because she is not a tour member, yet she has earned $718,343, which would put her at No. 14 on the money list. Karrie Webb, Sorenstam and Wie are the only players to average more than $100,000 per start this year. Despite not winning, Wie came within a whisker of cap­turing three majors. She had a 25-foot eagle chip to win the Kraft Nabisco, missing a playoff when she failed to get up-and-down. She was tied for the lead on the 16th hole of the LPGA Championship until her wedge found a greenside bunker leading to bogey. And she was tied at the U.S. Women's Open until making bogey on the 13th hole in the final round, closing with all pars to miss a playoff by two shots. "I guess I'm taking it patiently," Wie said at Bighorn Golf Club, where her family 

now has a second home. "But I feel like being in contention this year, really getting the feel for what it's like to be in contention on the Sunday in a major. "I learned a lot from that. That's the way I'm learn­ing how to win, and I feel like it's going to happen." 
What taints her year was competing against the men. 
Wie rose to international acclaim as a 14-year-old play­er when she shot 68 in the Sony Open and missed the cut by one shot. A year later, she shot 70-71 at the John Deere Classic and narrowly made the cut. 
But as a professional on the PGA Tour, she has looked more like an amateur. 
An image that captured a troublesome end to her sum­mer came at the John Deere Classic, when she withdrew after nine holes in the second round with heat exhaustion and was shown being loaded into an ambulance on a stretcher. 
She tied for 26th at the Women's British Open -her only finish outside the top 5 on the LPGA -and fired her caddie without anyone from the Wie family breaking the news. And after starting her senior year at Punahou School in Honolulu, Wie took a two­week break to take on the end and finished both times, in the European Masters and the 84 Lumber Classic. 
"I have to learn how to schedule better, how much my body can take and when I should play," Wie said. "My first year, I haven't got it down yet. Obviously, I learn from my mistakes." 
Perceptions of her first year as a pro depends on the size of the picture. 
The most recent image is 

her humbling results against the men. But it is hard to ignore her close calls in three majors, along with the Fields Open in Hawaii and the Evian Masters in France. 
"She has played extremely well on the LPGA Tour, and I think it's been a very good learning year for her," Webb said. "Even though her results may have been similar to last year, she's actually been in contention in the last round, rather than having a very good last round and finishing third or second or fourth. She should be very proud of the year she has had for someone so young." 
Sorenstam never played with Wie over the last 12 months, so she was hesitant to judge her first full season. 
"I must say, she's been very consistent in the majors," Sorenstam said. "But that's all I know." 
Sorenstam made quite the statement last year at Bighorn. Her eight-shot victo­ry was her fifth at the Samsung World Championship, and another victory this week would make her the first LPGA Tour player to capture the same event six times. 
For all her stardom, Sorenstam was virtually for­gotten at Bighorn last year before the tournament start­ed. 
The attention was squarely on Wie making her profes­sional debut, and the interest was so high that tournament officials had to build a media tent on an empty lot near the clubhouse. This year, the turnout is typical for an LPGA event, with only a dozen or so reporters stationed in a small tent on the edge of the prac• tice range. 

Thursday, October 12, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
MEN'S INTERHALL 
Dawgs, Mob face off with playoff implications 
Morrissey and Keenan, both undefeated, to play for top seed in Gold League 
sons. bubble, our team is focusing situation as Alumni, having lost
By JAY FITZPATRICK and 
Last week, Alumni suffered a even more," Alumni junior its last game two weeks ago to
JOHN TIERNEY 
disappointing 21-14 loss to its Eddie Villa said. Keenan. The Knights shut down 
Sports Writers 
South Quad rivals from Dillon. With hope of a playoff berth, the Mob offense in the 10-0 win. Holes in the Alumni defensive the Dawgs have been practicing Although it lost the oontest, Although the forecast calls for line allowed Dillon to success­especially hard this week. Villa O'Neill played tough the entire a wintry blast, both O'Neill and fully execute its running game, said the team thinks it solved its game. The defense managed to Alumni are ready to heat things giving it the edge it needed to problems on defense and is stop a lot of big Keenan drives, up on the field tonight in a come out with the victory. hoping it will be enough to stop and the offense was able to get game that will determine the "We came off a disappointing the Angry Mob tonight. within scoring position multiple fates of their respective sea-loss, but with playoffs on the O'Neill finds itself in a similar times-but wasn't able to take 
ALL PHONES ARE FREE! 
••Rates exclude taxes & Sprint Fees (including USF charge of up to 2.67% that varies quarterly, cost recovery fees up to $2.83 per line, & state/local fees that vary by area). Sprint Fees are not taxes or government-required charges. Coverage not available everywhere. Available features & services will vary by phone/network. Nationwide Sprint PCS Networks reaches over 250 million people. Offers not available in all mar­kets. Additional terms & restrictions apply. Subject to credit. See store or Sprint.com details. Instant Savings: Taxes Excluded. Requires in-store purchase and activation by 10/22/06. Savings cannot exceed total purchase price of phone(s). Business accounts ex~luded. Phones Subject to availability. Service Plans: $200 early termination fee and up to a $36 activation fee apply to each line. A deposit may be required. Partial minutes are charged as full minutes. ©2006 Sprint Nextel. All rights reserved. Sprint and the "Going Forward" logo are trademarks ofSprint Nextel. All other trademarks and imagery are property of their respective owners. 
advantage. 
Since the team had a bye last week, it has had two weeks of practice to make adjustments it hopes will help it overtake Alumni. With one loss, the Mob is likely to make the playoffs, so this week it is fighting for its seed. 
"We've got an important game ahead of us this week," O'Neill junior captain Pat Conley said. "We want to get the momentum on our sides heading into the post-season." 
With playoff positions at stake, the showdown is set for 8 
p.m. at the Riehle Fields. 
Morrissey vs. Keenan 
Undefeated )\1orrissey and undefeated Keenan will play tonight to determine the top seed in the Gold League. Both teams expect to face their most formidable opponent of the year. 
Each squad will look to use its running game to move the ball downfield. The Knights ran the ball well Sunday in their win over Stanford. 
Sophomore running back Alex Gonzalez rushed for 101 yards on 15 carries and scored two touchdowns, including rushing for 80 yards on one drive alone against the Griffins. 
According to Manorite senior captain Steve Klein, Keenan's running game will be difficult to stop. 
"Keenan is the best team on the ground that we've faced all season." Klein said. 
He believes that Morrissey must get a good performance out of its defense in order to contain Gonzalez and the Knight offense. 
Keenan junior captain Matt Gibson agrees that winning tonight will be a challenge. 
"Morrissey is a very good team," he said. "We have to play our best and try to outwork them to win." 
Both the Manorites and the Knights are looking forward to playing an intense game against another top-tier team to get ready for the playoffs. 
"This is a really big game for us," Gibson said. "We're really excited for the challenge." 
Klein also recognizes the importance of the game to claim the top seed in the Gold League. 
"We're both going to the play­offs, but this game still has big consequences," Klein said. 
Gibson believes that the key to the Knights' success will be to stay focused. 
"We want to prepare the same as we do every other week," he said. "It's a big game, but we're just going to take it one week at a time and play hard." 
A potential distraction for 
· both teams may be the quick turnaround between games, as the squads only have three off­days this week. "You don't get as much accomplished with the short week, but we can't let it bother us," Gibson said. Klein does not think that dis­tractions will be an issue tonight from what is on the line. "We just have to play hard and play our game, and we'll be ok," he said. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu and John Tierney at jtiemel@nd.edu 

T.nlll 
New, improved coverage in the South Bend area. Wireless service is only as good as the network it runs on. With new and improved coverage in South Bend, Niles, Granger and laporte, now is a great time to experience the most complete, all-digital, wireless network in the nation reaching more than 250 million people. 
OPEN SUNDAYS!  
SPiliNT STORES  
SOUTH BEND Martin's Plaza 2035 South Bend Ave. 574-277-7727 Se habla Espaiiol  MISHAWAKA Grape Rd. at Indian Ridge South of the Mall across from McDonald's 574-243-2100  STORE HOURS Sunday ..... 12pm-5pm Mon.-Fri. .... 10am-8pm Sat.......... 9am-7pm CONVENIENT SUNDAY HOURS  

® RadioShack. 
PlaEFERRED RETAILERS 
MISHAWAKA Sprint Store Express University Park Mall 6501 Grape Rd. 574-277-4360 
NILES, Ml BasicCommunications 2010 5. 11th St. 269,357-0000 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 12, 2006 
NBA 
Jackson in trouble with law yet again 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Stephen Jackson's apology wasn't enough. 
The Indiana Pacers' guard was charged with the felony and misdemeanor counts of battery and disorderly conduct Wednesday by the Marion County prosecutor, five days after he fought with another group of men outside a strip club. 
On Tuesday, Jackson apolo­gized for the fight, saying he was "happy to be alive." His com­ments came hours after police arrested another man on several charges related to the fight. 
Pacers president Larry Bird said Jackson was upset by the charges. 
"He knows it's a major embar­rassment for the franchise," Bird said. "This is a big blow for Stephen. He didn't expect this." 
Teammates Jamaal Tinsley, Marquis Daniels and Jimmie Hunter were also at the club, but were not charged. 
Jackson was hit by a car, and police say he fired a gun in the air at least five times. He origi­nally told police he was punched, but later said he was not, prosecutors said. 
"Firing the shots in the air at that point is criminal reckless­ness," Marion County Prosecutor Carl Brizzi said. 'Those bullets, once they come up, have to come down, and they come down at least 90 miles per hour, and they do absolutely have the ability to take someone's life." 
Brizzi said between 30 and 35 people were in the parking lot. 
Jackson was expected to turn himself in Wednesday or Thursday, prosecutors said. He was scheduled to be in court Thursday morning to face the charges. The felony count car­ries a prison term of six months to three years. 
The charges were another set­back for Jackson, who has strug­gled to shake off the effects of the 2004 brawl with Detroit Pistons fans at the Palace of Auburn Hills. 
In September 2005, a judge in Michigan ordered Jackson to serve a year's probation for his role in the brawl, but the court ordered him to serve an extra year of probation because he did not complete the terms of his sentence. 
Brizzi said Jackson could be ordered to serve three months in jail if authorities there deter­mine he has violated his proba­tion. 
NBA spokesman Tim Frank said the league was monitoring the situation and would do its own investigation. 
Pacers CEO Donnie Walsh said the NBA typically lets players continue to play until such cases are resolved. 
Police on Tuesday charged Deon Willford, 23, in the fight. He faces felony counts of crimi­nal recklessness and leaving the scene Df a personal injury acci­dent, and a misdemeanor count of driving without a license. 
Willford drove a car that hit Jackson, sending him tumbling over the hood, police Sgt. Matthew Mount said. 
J~ckson returned to training camp Tuesday with stitches in his lip and scrapes and bruises. Prosecutors say the injuries were all caused by the car hit­ting him. 
Officers said they found a small amount of marijuana in the passenger-side door of point guard Tinsley's car. But no arrests were made at the time because there were three others in Tinsley's car and police could not determine who had the mar­ijuana. 
None of the other players were charged but were listed as wit­nesses for the prosecution. 
Tinsley and Hunter told inves­tigators they heard gunshots, but did not see who was shoot­ing, according to an Indianapolis police report. Daniels told police he saw Jackson struck by a car, but was not sure if he heard any gunshots. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Team falls to Hope on senior day 
Saint Mary's drops last game to lose 3-2 at home to Flying Dutch 
streak to five games. Saint
By MICHAEL BRYAN Mary's dropped to 7-5 in the 
Sports Writer 
MIAA, 14-7 overall. Currently fourth in the conference, the Saint Mary's seniors were Belles will look to improve honored before Wednesday's their seeding'for the MIAA game. But Hope didn't care. tournament in the final 
Despite the Belles' efforts, stretch of the regular season. 
the  Flying  Hope's  
Dutch spoiled  strong  per­ 
Senior Night  formance was  
at  Saint  led by sopho­ 
Mary's with a 3-2 comeback victory. The Fly.ing Dutch got out  "We just need to take things one game at a time and finish strong. "  more Nora Slenk, who recorded a team-high 19 kills along  
to a fast start, taking the first game 30­ Julie Schroeder-Biek Belles coach  with her 12 digs. Seni·or D e e n a  
had 25 digs 


24. The Belles showed their resilience, however, win­ning six points in a row fo come from behind, take the second game and tie the match. 
Saint Mary's used another hot streak to take the third game, employing a 9-2 run to break open a 16-16 tie. Going for the victory in the fourth game, the Belles kept a close lead until late in the game, when the Flying Dutch pulled away for a 30-28 equalizer to knot things at two games apiece. 
Hope then used its momen­tum to control the final game, posting a .409 hitting percent­age to Saint Mary's .000 in a 15-8 win to take the match. 
With the win, Hope improved to 15-6 and extend­ed its conference winning 
VanAssen 
to lead the 

team defen­sively. 
"I cannot say enough about how proud I am of our sen­iors," Saint Mary's coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "On Senior Night, like every night, they showed their huge value and importance to our team as leaders." 
For seniors Anne Cusack, Kristen Playko and Ann Carpenter, the home match was the last of their college careers, and Schroeder-Beck said the three leaders will be sorely missed. 
Cusack leads the MIAA with 
4.06 digs per game, Playko leads the team with 3.64 kills per game, and Carpenter has tallied 19 blocks on the year. Playko and Cusack both put up tremendous efforts in their last home games -Playko recording a double-double with 20 kills and 21 digs and Cusack tallying 23 digs of her own. 
Schroeder-Biek was not dis­heartened by the results. "We played a very good team and our players responded well to the competition," she said. "The team learns from these matches and approach­es the next competition with an even stronger will to win." 
Another bright spot in the loss was the performance of outside hitter Lorna Slupczynski. The freshman had a match-high 23 kills and 12 digs for yet another dou­ble-double·. 
Saint Mary's will try to rebound from the loss in its next match at Alma on Saturday. The team will finish the regular season with three away matches before the MIAA Tournament begins Oct. 
31. Schroeder-Biek said the team will not look past their final matches. 
"We are in the home stretch with some tough matches ahead of us," she said. "We just need to take things one game at a time and finish strong." 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

r~~~rl ~it[ IJ ~~ruw~rl ~oom ~~ ~~Mrl ~OOit[ IJ ~~ ~~ d~~~~ ~~ ~~ dti~~ ~~~~~I~~~ 
Thursday, October 12, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Interhall 
continued from page 20 
For Fisher head coach Ryan Bradel, the victory was signifi­cant because it showed solid play on both sides, resulted in a win against an archrival and secured the Green Wave the top spot in the postseason. 
"I can't describe how good it feels, especially against our archrival," Bradel said. 
Zahm 22, St. Ed's 0 
The comeback story for the defending champions contin­ues. 
In a must-win game, the Rabid Bats of Zahm (2-2) deci­sively beat St. Ed's (0-4) to clinch third place in the Blue Division and earn themselves a playoff spot. 
The Rabid Bats came out fir­ing on all cylinders, shutting down St. Ed's first offensive drive and responding with quite a drive of their own. Due to the wet conditions, Zahm opted to pound the ball, put­ting the ball in the hands of junior running back Theo Ossei-Anto eight times. The drive went 52 yards and ended, predictably, with a 12­yard touchdown run from Ossei-Anto. 
St. Ed's has struggled offen­sively this season but did not show it in its second drive of the game. The Stedsmen took the ball 44 yards to the Rabid Bats' 1 yard-line, only to see the half end after an unsuc­cessful rushing attempt: 
After the intermission, as Stuart Scott would say, the sec­ond half was lights out. Literally. 
At the beginning of the third quarter, the Riehle West lights went out, cloaking the field in shadow. However, Zahm was determined, and no measly power outage was about to stop it. 
Two plays later, Wieland's 26-yard bomb cut through the darkness and into the arms of Ossei-Anto. Four plays later, a flee-flicker ended in a 20-yard touchdown reception by Zahm senior receiver , Matt Smallbone. 
Two Zahm interceptions later, the Rabid Bats found themselves deep in Stedsmen territory. Wieland hit Smallbone for his second touchdown of the game, put­ting the Bats up 22 and sealing the victory over the Stedsmen. 
Head coach Rich Petty was proud of his team's season U­turn. 
"We finished strong, peaking at the right time," Petty said. "It's all about leadership. Our captains stepped up and led this team. We just came to play as a team tonight." 
Contact Matt Hopke at mhopke@nd.edu 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Hanks nets Player of Week honor 
Forward now fourth to earn award for Irish 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Assistant Sports Editor 
Soccer America named sopho­more forward Kerri Hanks National Player of the Week Wednesday after Hanks' nine­point performance last weekend in wins over Rutgers and Seton Hall. 
After a three goal, one assist performance against Seton Hall and a two assist game against Rutgers, Hanks became the fourth Notre Dame player to receive national player of the week honors -the second in as many weeks. Soccer America gave the award to freshman for­ward Michele Weissenhofer fol­lowing a three goal, one assist weekend. 
"Certainly everyone likes to get individual recognition," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "I think it's great because certainly Kerri deserved it just like the other three that did it earlier in the year." 
Hanks' dominant performance gave her 11 goals and 28 points for the year, which puts her tied for fourth and fifth place, respectively, in the nation. Weissenhofer's 31 points and 13 assists leads the country. 
As a team, Notre Dame's 3.46 goals per game average ranks third in the country. After finish­ing last year as the nation's top scoring offense, Waldrum thinks awards like Hanks' only serves to help Notre Dame's reputation nationwide. 

Irish forward Kerri Hanks dribbles between-two Bronco defenders in Notre Dame's 3-1 win over Santa Clara Sept. 3 at Alumni Field. 
"I think the thing it really helps us in is national visibility from a recruiting standpoint ­kind of being at the forefront," he said. ''I'm proud of [Hanks] from that standpoint. She scored nine points over the weekend. It wasn't a surprise she got it." 
After learning about the honor during practice Wednesday, Hanks downplayed its individual importance and looked upon it as a compliment to the team's success. 
"I really don't pay very much attention to it," Hanks said. "Anyone on our team could have done it based on the weekend. We did really well all together. So I just think as long as we play well as a team, that's all that really matters." 
Wednesday marked the sec­ond time Hanks earned Soccer America player of the week hon­ors, harking back to the first weekend of her soccer career, in which she scored seven goals and one assist in wins over New Hampshire and Vermont. 
Junior forward Amanda Cinalli and sophomore defender Carrie Dew were named National Player of the Week ear­lier in the year by Soccer America. 
This week marks the second consecutive week Notre Dame has swept the Soccer America honors, as Notre Dame men's forward Joseph Lapira was named National Player of the Week the past two weeks after scoring two goals in each of Notre Dame's past five games. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 

Flat Screen TVs
1/zu.tJdt:i'fJ
Karaoke in every boothI 9 pm -1om . '"'' NFL Sunday Ticket
Betweenthe',,.. #l

. R ad r' ~ .,.,,., ~·;u•····ns
\,~"'} ,.,......... 
/~. Sports Bar 
.,/ "\-SPORTS BAR 
t:?anzp~ _S:7h.o-pp~~ • _S:7o-u~h ..0~nd 
vvvvvv_ Bet:vveent:heB u ns.com 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
The Irish dominated the Spartans from the beginning of the wet and muddy first half. Notre Dame broke the deadlock in the 22nd minute, when mid­fielder Matt Besler headed a Nate Norman corner kick that trickled into the Spartan net. Senior midfielder · Norman almost got a second assist in the 40th minute on another cross into the box, but sophomore for­ward Bright Dike's header went inches wide of the goalpost. 
and crossing the ball into the net from the right side of the six­yard box. 
That play proved to be Lapira's last of the evening, since freshman Tamba Samba replaced him before play resumed. 
"I said take [Lapira] off after the second goal, but then he goes and scores the third goal," Clark said. 
Lapira's goal also proved to be the last shot Tillman would see in the game, as Spartan head coach Joe Baum put backup keeper Chris Austin in the goal. The· substitution marked the first time this season that 
The play came Tillman had not
'7 said take
just minutes after been on the field
[Lap ira] offafter
Michigan State goal­for Michigan keeper Jason the second goal, State. Tillman pulled up Against
but then he goes 
lame after a run­Tillman and
and scores the
ning start for a goal Austin, the Irish kick. Play had to be third goal. " totaled 2 3 total stopped while shots, compared Tillman shook off to the six shots
Bobby Clark 
his injury, and for Michigan State 
Irish coach
the rest of the fired at Notre 
game, he did not take goal kicks. 
One minute before halftime, Norman again barely missed an assist after sending a low cross into junior forward Kurt Martin, who sent the ball over the top of the net. At halftime, the Irish had a 12-3 shot on goal advan­tage. 
"We played well," Clark said. "Start to finish, we played very well." 
The Irish continued to domi­nate in the second half. They didn't score a goal, however, until the 72nd minute, when Lapira sent a corner kick into the box that bounced around in front of the net before freshman midfielder Michael Thomas put it past Tillman for his first career goal. 
Lapira added a goal of his own two minutes later, breaking past two Michigan State defenders 
Dame senior 

goalkeeper Chris Cahill, who picked up his sev­enth shutout of the season. 
After the game, Clark was especially pleased with the play of his substitutes, which includ­ed Samba, junior midfielder Andrew Denton and freshman midfielder Dave Donahue. 
"This is their opportunity to [earn another chance]," Clark said. "If they come on and do well, then the next time, you get excited. 
"Considering two of our top midfielders [Ian Etherington and Alex Yoshinaga] are injured, it's a very deep group. If we're going to do something [in the postseason], you need a deep group." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 12, 2006 
Brey 
continued from page 20 
open, and Irish coach Mike Brey was confident at Wednesday's media day that even without Chris Quinn and Torin Francis, his young squad can have a suc­cessful season. 
And, in the process, it might 
'The reason I
even "steal" a bid play a more up­to the NCAA came to play tempo style this Tournament. season to use the
college basketball 
"There's no rea­talents of quick
was to play in the
son we can't guards like Carter, dream big Tournament." sophomore Kyle dreams," Brey McAlarney and said. "I don't want freshman Tory
Colin Falls 
anyone on this Jackson.
Irish guard 
team selling them-"I love to run. I 
able to spend more time working on specific parts of their game. 
"The best way to get better at basketball is to repeat a skill over and over again," Brey said. "When you can repeat a skill for an hour rather than just 20 min­utes and not get tired, that 
helps."  
The  extra  summer  work  
should pay off dur­ 
ing games. Brey  
said the Irish will  

selves short because we haven't gotten an NCAA bid the last couple years." 
Notre Dame finished 16-14 overall (6-10 in the Big East) last season and fell 87-84 to Michigan in overtime in the sec­ond round of the NIT -its third appearance in the consolation tournament in as many years. 
"You don't get anything for coming close [to an NCAA bid] and no one knows that better than us," Brey said. 
On media day last year, Brey emphasized that reaching the Big East tournament was his team's only focus. But that's no longer the attitude. Senior guard Colin Falls said he and fellow senior guard Russell Carter are determined to get to the NCAAs in their final season. 
"The reason I came to play college basketball was to play in the Tournament and we haven't done that yet," said Falls, who is Notre Dame's leading return­ing scorer (13.8 
love to just roll the 

balls out and play," McAlarney said. "Going up and down the floor seems to be the best fit for our team." 
McAlarney will step into the role vacated by Quinn, who led Notre Dame with 17.7 points per game last season. The point guard was also looked to as the squad's emotional leader, put­ting multiple games on his shoulders and taking responsi­bility for their outcomes. 
"I feel like everyone's looking to me the way [the team] looked to Chris Quinn," McAlarney said. ''I'm very comfortable with the leadership role. I love it." 
Carter said he is excited to be able to use his slashing style of play in more transition opportu­nities this season. 
"When you're in transition, it's like running through chaos, and I love chaos," he said. "It's just easier than when everyone's back in the half court." 
Stepping into 
Francis' shoes on 
the low post will 

points per game "I feel like everyone's be sophomore in 2005-06). Luke Zeller. Zeller
looking to me the
Ten of Notre averaged 13.7 Dame's losses way [the team] minutes per game last year came looked to Chris last season, and by less than five played in Taiwan
Quinn.''
points. Brey over the summer made condition­-winning gold in ing an emphasis Kyle McAiarney the Athletes in this summer in Irish guard Action tourna­
hopes that the team will be less fatigued at the end of games. 
"We have to use last year as a reference .point or a teaching tool," he said. "We need to be tougher at key moments." 
The Irish coaching staff took advantage of new NCAA rules allowing them to regulate sum­mer practices by increasing the amount of daily running. 
"We thought that we should have them run, get them up early, and generally make it harder. I think it paid off," Brey said. "They're all in great shape, and when you're in great shape you're more confident." 
Brey also said the additional conditioning helped hone play­ers' skills because they were ment. 
"Being able to 

play nine games in nine days, I was able to learn a lot of things," he said of his experience. 
Junior forward Rob Kurz will also be called upon to help in the frontcourt, especially with his rebounding. 
"[Kurz is] our hardest worker," Brey said. "Our guys really look to him. He's made himself into a legitimate Big East forward." 
The Irish open their season with exhibitions against Rockhurst Nov. 1 and Bellarmine Nov. 6 at the Joyce Center. They begin the regular season against IPFW at home Nov. 10. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Moffet 
continued from page 20 
[on our schedule is] good," McGraw said. "It's really hard. We can't overlook anyone." 
Notre Dame hosts 2006 NCAA Tournament No. 4-seed Purdue Dec. 6 before traveling to Knoxville to take on perennial power Tennessee. 
After winter break, Notre Dame will begin a Big East schedule that includes a road game at Connecticut, which ended last season ranked No. 8, and a home game against Rutgers, which fin­ished No.9. 
"Last year I was scared in some games, but this year I am fear­less," Irish sophomore guard Lindsay Schrader said. "When Tennessee came into thi<; building last year, sellout crowd, I was scared ... but this year it's all gone." 
For returning players, that might be the mentality. But with Notre Dame's schedule and four freshmen on the team, McGraw said her ability to stay patient with the Irish will be crucial. 
"I think they're so young, that's the only word that keeps coming to mind," she said. "I think they're a group you're going to have to be patient with. . .. They are really going to need a lot of encourage­ment." · 
Notre Dame's freshmen are reloading a squad that featured senior point guard Megan Duffy and senior forward Courtney LaVere last season. 
Ashley Barlow, a 5-foot-9 prod­uct of Indianapolis (Pike High School) and Melissa Lechlitner, a 5-foot-7 native of Mishawaka (St. Joseph's High School) join the team at guard. Barlow and Lechlitner will start the season behind Notre Dame's co-captains senior Breona Gray and junior Tulyah Gaines at guard. 
"I think that our two freshman 


Hintons 
continued from page 20 
with you?" 
The Hintons have had plenty of moments to enjoy together -the two sisters have combined for 30 goals since the beginning of the 2005 season. 
In their first 10 games this year, the Belles have netted 15 goals -all of them scored or assisted by the Hintons. The pair has also taken more than 50 per­cent of the team's shots so far this season. 
Most of their success can be contributed to the unselfish play of captain Ashley. The four-year starter began her career with six goals in her freshman season. In her sophomore year, Hinton broke out with 12 goals in 19 games to give her the second most in Saint Mary's history. 
guards, Ashley and Melissa, are going to see quality playing time," McGraw said. "Initially, we have a veteran group of guards, so they are going to have to find a role.... I think it would be tough to break into the starting lineup, but I'm excited about both of them." 
McGraw is also excited about the Irish freshmen who will be playing on the inside. Danielle Ben-Tsvulun of Fort Wayne (Harding High School) and Erica Williamson of Charlotte, N.C. (South Mecklenburg High School) enter the season with high hopes from McGraw on their shoulders. 
Six-foot-five junior Melissa D'Amico likely will play a key role on the inside for the Irish this sea­son, but Ben-Tsvulun and Williamson both bring adequate size to the position. "We're going to have a lot more depth and we'll be able to run people in and out," McGraw said. "We're probably going to play a four-guard lineup. We don't antici-
But at the beginning of her jun­ior year, Hinton moved from for­ward to midfield and allowed her younger sister to step into the limelight. Ashley became an assist machine for the Belles, and Lauren took over the scoring role, burying 14 goals in her rookie season. 
"Lauren thrives on the fact that Ashley knows how to find her," coach Caryn MacKenzie said. "The fact that they know each other so well makes for some pretty amazing combinations." 
As a senior, Ashley Hinton has stepped up her leadership quali­ties and made a strong captain leading by example. Teammates say her generally reserved man­ner keeps her from becoming a vocal leader, but she more than makes up for it with her play on the field. 
"Being a captain has helped me realize that I need to set an example for my teammates to pate playing a lot of double posts, but if [Ben-Tsvulun and Williamson] are playing well, and that's what it takes for us to match up against the opponent, then that's what we're going to do." 
Notes: 
+ Irish junior guard Charel Allen, who missed the beginning of last year after suffering a torn ACL and MCLin Notre Dame's 70­61loss to Arizona State in the sec­ond round of the 2005 NCAA tour­nament, said she was "100 per­cent" healthy to start the 2006-07 campaign. 
"I worked a lot going off one leg again [for layups] because I know a lot during last season I was going off two feet," Allen said. "It feels very good. Very seldom do I have pain." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler@nd.edu and Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
follow, and in return I have set the standards higher for myself," f-linton said. 
She has gotten off to. a very strong start this year with 10 points in conference play, leading the MIAA in that category as well as assists. Her consistent ability to put points on the board has allowed the Belles to start 3-1 in the conference, good enough for second place. 
"As Ashley goes, we go as a team," MacKenzie said. "When she is motivated our team seems to fall in line with her quite a bit." 
Saint Mary's will continue to look to Ashley Hinton for guid­ance and support as it enters the toughest part of their schedules. The team will take on Hope and Adrian before facing off against undefeated Calvin in the near future. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
VOLLEYBALL:  SOCCER:  
FRIDAY, OcTOBER 13TH @1:00PM  SATURDAY, OcTOBER 14TH@ 1:00PM  
vs. DEPAUL  VS. PROVIDENCE  
FREE WATER BOTILE TO THE FIRST 300 FANS!  FREE SOCCER PONCHO TO THE FIRST 200 FANS  


Thursday, October 12, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

HENRI ARNOLD ALEC WHITE 
JUMBLEJocuLAR 

MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
One of 
to form four ordinary words. 
Fruity with our best 
REWAY 

rJ 
1 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
KULFE 
1 
rJ lu 
ADAM FAIRHOLM

CROISSANTWORLD 
DELIRB WHt:RE: THE: C.ON­NOISSE:UR WE:NT
1'1"'1 C1LA"O E.vt:~10NE IS 
LE Alf..NE..O So !'AUO-\ 
1 
rJ 


FOR A GOOD 
www.jumble.com

\IOCALI"Z..IN(:r HOW 1'-NP "'0\N \'t> \...\\(."1:0 '"Tb \~Ot>~c.l::. Af!.ou-r PE.~SoN A.L 
C.ABE:RNE:T.

Pal" 'Dil<v1c SOLOI-\c:N , oF S/3 BAN~ 
WHo \~ \olE.~ To TA~ To Now arrange the circled letters
'(OU ABouT Sot-\f. E.~CtTINtr 
to for.m the surprise answer, as INVE'"i.TME.N\ oPpofilTUN ITlES · 
suggested by the above cartoon. e'IJ'i&ll.'fON£': (:JET 01-1 "1"\-\E I R. 
F~T ANP ~\-lOUT ''~u~ ~" A: 
TOTHE[ I I I Jl I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: ASSAY GRAVE BEAGLE HALLOW Yesterday's Answer: When the paparazzi angered the teen idol, his fans found him -ALL THE "RAGE" 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
ACROSS  41 Names hidden  69 Marketing intra?  
Popular pens 5 No trouble  in 17-, 25-, 51­and 65-Across (twice in the last  70 It goes in the middle of the table  
9 Stopped dead 14 Gray's subj. 15 It may be gray 16 Upscale wheels  of these) 44 Primitive fishing tool 45 "Awright!" 46 "Java" blower  71 Deviated, in a way 72 Did too much 73 Breyers rival  
17 Split (with) 19 Not straight  47 Public works project  DOWN 1 Amount from  
20 Old brand advertised by Bucky Beaver 21 Level  49 Kentucky Derby prize 51 "I can't find a thing to watch!"  which to figure sale profit 2 Ham-fisted 3 Procession  
56 Cable choice 23 Devil's take? 59 Avian source of 24 N.L. cap red meat stitching 60 Come down 25 Showing no pity hard 29 Minos' land 61 Radical Hoffman 63 Hawked items31 Status 65 Procedure for a32 Actor Morales burn victim, 34 Investigator, at perhaps times 68 Rush-hour 37 Treated roughly subway action ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  4 British gun 5 Put away 6 "Exodus" hero 7 Take care of a Late name in Mideast politics 9 Eruptions 1 o Emeritus: Abbr. 11 Rust, e.g. 12 Relatives of the Xhosa 13 _ Park, Colo. 18 Not turning up much 22 Shingle abbr.  38 Pajama part 39 Boot one 40 Summer hrs. 42 Knocked around  51 Breezily informative 52 City on the Missouri 53 "One L" author 54 Zest  62 Highlands hillside 64 Party time, maybe 66 du Diable  
26 Suffix with kitchen 27 Labor leader ":::"t-:-t":":"f'~rl:*-~ George -:-+-,:-:+::~ -:-:+-:+.:::+.-:+:-~ 28 Can't abide  43 Send off 48 Telephone trigram 50 Run producer  55 Ticked off 57 Peachy-keen 58 Parisian thinkers?  67_ Brooks, 1950's-60's "Meet the Press" moderator  
30 Mideast capital  

32 Golfer called credit card, 1-800-814-5554.'the Big Easy" Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 33 Tree yield 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 35 Having four Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 sharps past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 36 _ poker (bar Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young game) solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name Address _______________________________________ City _______ State _____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Michelle Trachtenberg, 21: Luke Perry, 41; Joan Cusack, 44: Ron Leibman, 69 
Happy Birthday: You will receive help if you ask for it this year, so call in all the favors required for you to reach your goals. Don't let the mishaps of dying relationships or friendships play havoc with your progress. Sometimes it's best to just move on. Do what you must to clear a passage to a better future. Your numbers are 13, 16, 21, 24, 33, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get your pannerships in order. Surround yourself with thost who share responsibilities. A love issue can he resolved and new ground rules laid down. Change is good and will help eliminate undue stress. 4 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don'tlet petty little things distract you. Concentrate on work, making money and finishing what you stan. If you let someone you are close to or in pannership with cause you grief, you will miss out on an important chance. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): It's time to get serious about what you want to accomplish. You can write your own ticket if you stick to what needs to he done. Your responsible attitude and ability to finish what you stan will be what impresses people the most. 3 star: 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't believe everything you hear and refrain from gettinf involved in something just because someone you like is going to. Make your own choices Children may cause some grief today. Deal with family matters before they escalate. 3 star: 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Today is all about pannerships and the connections you have./' commitment on your pan will make a difference to the person you are dealing with. Don' waffle now when you really need to show your stability. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Someone at work may throw you a curve ball. Rely on the people you can trust. Money can be made, deals struck and lessons learned. A detour will lead you to something or someone interesting. 2 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Travel, educational pursuits, new philosophies or following a creative path will all pan out. Friendships will tum into something special and love and romance will highlight your day. Take an interest in the young and the old in your family 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone who is ultra conservative may try to stop you from making an investment or spending money. If the investment has to do with yourself and your talents, you must follow through. Don't be tempted by a secret affair. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your love life is looking quite good and a pannershir with someone who can utilize your talents to make money will develop. Don't be too quid to sell yourself short. Make sure you are paid properly for your time and effort. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Caution must be taken when traveling or communicatin! with others. Don't let arguments waste your time or ruin what you have with someone. Prepare, promote and present what you do best and you will be able to progress somewhat 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A legal matter has to be dealt with. Once you get such issues behind you, it will be easier to move forward. Tie up loose ends, pay off old debts and collect what's owed to you. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Money may be on the line. Someone you are close to may not be in your corner. Be willing to let go of things no longer of use to you in order to ge what you want. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have talent, versatility, imagination and a creative soul. You are brave, concerned with the well being of others and willing to go the distance for justice and fairness. 
Em!enia's Weh sites: a">troadvice.com for fun. eueenialast.com for confidential consultation: 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, October 12, 2006 
page 20 
INTERHALL 

Fisher vvins wood, stays undefeated; Zalun blanks St. Ed's 
trophy, the Crooked Stick. Green Wave lead to 6-0. to Tassinari, but a missed two­Green Wave mount a six-play,
By MATT HOPKE Fisher (4-0) came out very But Carroll (3-1) had seen too point conversion sent the game 49-yard drive that ended in 
Sporrs Wrirer strong on its opening drive, much success this season to let to halftime tied 6-6. another Ellis touchdown. That 
marching 63 yards down the one drive get in the way. The The third quarter was all score was the last, giving Fisher 
Fisher fought through cold, field on 11 plays and finishing Vermin came right back with a defense with both the Vermin its first win over Carroll in three rainy weather Wednesday to with a 9-yard touchdown run by lengthy drive of their own. and the Green Wave making big years. give archrival Carroll its first freshman running back Jamie Senior running back Mike stands. Perhaps the most "Tonight's performance was loss of the year in a battle of the Ellis. Johnson, senior quarterback important defensive play was a pretty big for our team," Fisher best the Blue Division has to After an injury sidelined Cory Wilmont and senior wide third down sack of Fisher junior junior captain Tom Bufalino offer. Fisher starting running back receiver Paul Tassinari proved quarterback Kevin Habil, who said. "We lost three starters but 
While both teams will make Tom Sullivan, Ellis stepped up to be a formidable threesome, left in an ambulance due to an we kept it together and got the the postseason, the win vaults and played like a veteran, rip­taking the Vermin 45 yards apparent leg injury. win. Plus, we took back the Fisher into the No. 1 seed in the ping off runs of 12, 9 and 8 down the field on seven plays. Rabil's backup, junior Pat Crooked Stick." playoffs and allows the Green yards on the drive. A missed Carroll scored on a 20-yard Gotebeski, was clutch in the Wave to take back the rivalry two-point conversion kept the touchdown pass from Wilmont fourth quarter, helping the see INTERHALL/ page 17 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Coach dreams of dancing 

NCAA Tournament still goal for seniors 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associare Sporrs Ediror 
After losing its leading scorer and leading rebounder from last season, Notre Dame is in the process of forming a new team identity. 
But the Irish aren't alone. 
Nineteen of the 22 players from last year's All-Big East team are no longer playing col­lege basketball due to gradua­tion or early entry into the NBA draft. The conference is wide 
see BREY/page 18 


ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
McGraw ready to start season as underdogs 
By ERIC RETTER and 
KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writers 
The gym is open, and Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw is confident her young, new team is ready to fill it with victories. 
Unlike years past, the Irish will enter those contests as underdogs, as they are set to tackle one of the toughest schedules in the country. According to McGraw, the schedule is an opportunity for the Irish to prove how good they are. 
"We don't deserve to be ranked," McGraw said during Notre Dame's media day Wednesday. "I think we've got to earn it this year. That'll be better for the team to come in as the underdog. I think the pressure will be ofl'of them." 
Six of Notre Dame's opponents finished the 2005-06 season in the top-25, and 10 finished with 20 or more wins. And the big games in which the Irish can creep up the rankings start early. 
The Irish travel to University Park, Pa., to take on Penn State Nov. 16. Eight days later, they trav­el to Los Angeles for a showdown with Southern California. 
"I think we have some major challenges, and really everybody 
see MOFFET/page 18 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Record rests 
Lapira's spartan one-goal performance snaps multi-goal streak, leads Irish over Mich. St. 
By ERIC RETTER Associare Sporrs Ediror 
Notre Dame forward Joseph Lapira had a slow game Wednesday night -slow, for Joseph Lapira. 
The Irish junior scored one goal and added one assist as he helped No. 8 Notre Dame (10-3­
2) win 3-0 over Michigan State (6-5-2), ending his record streak of five straight games with at least two goals. 
Irish head coach Bobby Clark was proud of his striker after the match. 
"Joe [Lapira] actually had sev­eral opportunities when he could have shot [the ball] him­self and he squared to other people," Clark said. "There he 

is, possibly leading scorer in the 
country, but he's still prepared 
to pass up chances. That says a 
lot for him." 
Lapira maintained his lead 
atop the national scoring list and 
increased his NCAA-best total to 
18. Lapira also increased his total points tally -which also leads the nation-to 39. 
He did all of his scoring in the 
second half, as he left the game 
in the seventh minute with a 
hamstring injury and didn't play 
the remainder of the first half. 
Clark doesn't expect the injury 
to linger. 
"Hopefully, [he's fine]," Clark 
. said. "(Taking him oft1 was real­ly more precautionary than any­thing else." 
see SOCCER/page 17 
FOLE:Y tThe Ubserver 

Irish defender Jack Traynor, right, sets up forward Nate Norman, center, on a free kick in Notre Dame's 3-0 win over Michigan State Wednesday at Alumni Field. 
SMC SOCCER 
Sisters lead Belles to success 
By DAN MURPHY Sporrs Wrirer 
For senior midfielder Ashley Hinton, soccer is a family affair. 
On the field, she is constantly supported by her sister, sopho­more forward Lauren Hinton. In the stands at every home game, the rest of the Hinton family is always within earshot -a short drive from Grand Rapids, Mich. 
"Saint Mary's has been a great fit because we know our family could be at most of our games," Lauren Hinton said. "After all, who wants to score a goal and not have your family there to enjoy it 
see HINTONS/page 18 


~D WOMEN'S SOCCER  SMC VOI.lEYBAU  INJERHAU  HOCKEY  MlB  AlCS  
w Co) z :3 ~  Soccer America names Irish forward Kerri Hanks National Player of the Week.  Hope 3 Samt Mary's 2 Flying Dutch spoil Belles' Senior Night  Morrissey vs. Keenan Tonight  Minnesota State-Mankato at ND Today, 7:35 p.m.  Yankee teammates mourn the death of pitcher Cory Lidle.  Detroit 8 Oakland 5 Tigers substitute designated hitter Alexis  
c:z:  with come from behind win.  Manorites battle the Knights for the No. 1  The Irish open their season tonight at the  Gomez hits a two-run homer to help Detroit  
=:c  page 17  page 16  playoff seed. page 15  Joyce Center. page 14  page 13  take a 2-0 series lead. page 12  




