
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 14 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11,2006 

Ga•ne wows fans, draws crooks 
Counterfeit tickets abound; one arrested 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 
Undercover police arrested a man selling counterfeit football tickets on the perimeter of campus Saturday -the result of the University's initiative to crack down on individuals scamming and scalping Notre Dame tickets. 
More than 100 fake tickets were circulating campus before kickoff. said Notre Dame Director of Ticket Operations Josh Berlo. 
An undercover detail com­prised of officials from Notre Dame Security/Police, South Bend police department and the ticket office worked col­laboratively to address coun­terfeit ticket sales on game­day, Berlo said. They will continue to do so for the six remaining home football games. 
"We anticipated there would be counterfeits due to demand, so last fall we start­ed doing some research and putting the tools in place to attempt to stop counterfeits," Berlo said. 
The man was arrested along the southeast perime­ter of the University, within NDSP jurisdiction. Police also questioned two other individ­uals, but Berlo did not dis­close what was discussed or the outcome of those conver­sations. However, law enforcement officials have "definite information on other suspects," as well, Berlo said. He declined to provide information on the suspects, since the investiga­tion is ongoing. 
The number of counterfeit tickets was not surprising given the high demand for tickets, Berlo said. Notre Dame's tickets are some of the most secure in the world, he said, with seven separate security features in each one. 
"We use the same ticket printer that has ticketed the Olympics, the Super Bowl, the INCAA] Final Four [bas­ketball gamesI, and political conventions," Berlo said, not­ing that the University meets with its printing company annually to work on making tickets secure. 
Above, students wave towels distributed at the game. At left, Bob Morton and Dan Chervanick sing the Alma Mater with the student section, part of a new Irish tradition.
•
PHOTOS BY ALISON AMBROSE 

been trained to spot counter­feit tickets. It's common that fans who buy their tickets from non-University sources will not know they have a counterfeit, Berlo said. When they are not admitted into the game, Berlo's office works with those fans to "get as much information as we can" about the person who 
All stadium ushers have see TICKETS/page 3 
Fans frenzied by first home win of season 
BySONIARAO 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students left the stadium elated with a 41­17 win over Penn State on Saturday, albeit with sore arms from doing an awful lot of push-ups. 
While students were informed at Friday's pep rally that Notre Dame Stadium had a reputation for being a quiet place to play, Saturday's game seemed to be an anom­aly to some fans, including junior Ben Fredlake, who transferred from the University of Arizona as a sophomore. 
"I was at the USC game last year in the student section and I thought Saturday's game was just as loud," he said. "The atmosphere was so exciting, and the student sec­tion has its own cheers, which was something I didn't see at U of A." 
For first-year students, Saturday marked a day of ini­tiation into the student sec­tion. Freshmen experienced what it feels like to join the Notre Dame football tradition as a student for the first time. 
"I loved it," freshman Tina Tovor said. "As a student you're in the experience ­it's all happening in front of you." 
Freshman Emily Stewart had been to Notre Dame foot­ball games before, but says going as a student gave the experience an entirely new feel. 
"It was so different as a student," she said. "I felt so much more connected, like 'this is my school."' 
While freshman Cameron Hogue didn't grow up going to Notre Dame football games, he called Saturday's 
see FOOTBALL/page 3 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Journalist defends 

D.C. life 
Shields lectures on politics, Washington 
By RYAN SYDLIK 
News Writer 
1959 Notre Dame alumnus Mark Shields, now a promi­nent CNN and PBS political commentator. shared his views on Washington D.C. pol­.------~tics to an 
for 
on lee­


ture was part of a promotion for Notre Dame's Washington program -a United States-based alternative for sophomores and juniors to "study abroad" for a semester in Washington, D.C. 
Shields, who majored in phi­losophy and history, is a vet­eran in the world of politics, having been a part of four presidential campaigns and covered seven others. He spoke Friday about the cur­rent state of affairs in Washington and how today's realities compared to those of the past, mixing seriousness and humor to give his impres­sions of politics. 
"I do come to you from Washington D.C., a city much maligned by many late night monologists, John Stewart among others," he said. "I stand in defense of Washington D.C." 
Shields cited the recent bird flu epidemic as a "great issue" 
see SHIELDS/page 4 


Five years later, campus recalls terror attacks 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Junior Rachel Cota was fixing her hair on a September morn­ing five years ago when -in an instant -taking a good sophomore yearbook picture didn't seem so important any­more. 
Cota's mom came into her bathroom to tell her that ter­rorists had attacked the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. 
"I remember feeling horrible that I was just straightening my hair and people were losing their lives," Cota said. 
Cota went to school that day, mostly to show that the terror­ists had not disrupted her nor­mal routine, but pictures were cancelled. 
On the morning of Sept. 11, 19 hijackers crashed four com­mercial airplanes into the World Trade Center buildings in New York City, the Pentagon in Virginia and a rural field in Pennsylvania. Nearly 3,000 Americans were killed in the attacks, later attributed to the terrorist group al-Qaeda. 
To commemorate the anniversary of the attacks, Cota said she plans to attend a Sept. 11 memorial service, hosted by the Notre Dame ROTC units, today at 7 a.m. in front of the Hesburgh Library. . 
Ralph "Lefty" Guillette, 76, a part-time student at Notre Dame, will speak at the cere­mony. He plans to discuss lead­ership in the military based on his experience in the Marine Corps and his combat service in both the Korean and Vietnam wars. 
Guillette said he wants to tell those at the service that the men and women who died on Sept. 11 and those who have died since then in the war on terror -in the words of Abraham Lincoln in his Gettysburg address -"shall 
see ATTACKS/page 4 

Members of the Notre Dame Fire Department reflect on the attacks at the University's 2002 Sept. 11 memorial service. 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, September 11, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Thinking outside the bun 
Snickers has run an ad campaign over the past years that asks con­sumers if they are hungry -and if 
about the greatness --------,-­

they  are,  "Why  wait?  Grab  a  
Snickers."  
They seemed to  Marty  
have  forgotten  Schroeder  

that is the Tex-Mex, Assistant southwest burrito-Scene Editor slinging fast food giant that fulfills the needs of college students craving tacos everywhere -Taco Bell. 
Go south of the border while think­ing outside the bun and find the bril­liance that is an amalgamation of American fast food, southwest style­goodness and late-night availability. 
Imagine the papers are piling up and the Huddle is closed. The panic is rising and the hunger pangs are rolling over your consciousness like thunderstorms over the central plains of America. 
Only a hop, skip and a jump away, Taco Bell can answer all the needs that any growing body could have. The beef and potato burrito is an excellent choice providing a whole half of a pound of nourishment ­sustenance akin to the lembas bread that the elves gave the hobbits for their long journey across Middle­Earth in J.R.R. Tolkien's epic "The Lord of the Rings." 
But the hobbits never had the Spicy· Chicken Crunchwrap Supreme. 
This brilliant dish combines chicken marinated (or so the commercials say) in a spicy sauce and combines it with the finest sour cream, nacho cheese and mix of crunchy and soft tortillas. For only five dollars, you ­yes even you -can have a large drink, a hard or soft taco and the deli­cious Spicy Chicken Crunchwrap Supreme. 
They do not call it supreme for nothing. Whenever I eat one, I believe that I would be able to divine the muses and write something akin to a Shakespearian sonnet about this meal I have just had-but then I am so full I usually fall asleep and forget about it only to wake up and want more. 

Now, I know many naysayers are going to tell me that Taco Bell is the complete and utter commodification of Mexican food and Taco Bell turns it into a marketing tool to appeal to Americans who don't know any bet­ter. I would agree with you -if Taco Bell wasn't so good. Whenever you go into a Taco Bell, know that you are not getting real Mexican food. La Esperanza, a Mexican restaurant in South Bend, provides an amazing array of food that matches Mexican cuisine with more verisimilitude. However, you have to wait, you have to pay more and it's probably healthi­er. 
Taco Bell is fast, delicious and per­fect for those late-night cravings. If you ever have a craving, let me know. We can call the muses together and revel in the best that American fast food has to offer. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize char we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: How DID YOU CELEBRATE THIS WEEK'S VICTORY? 







rest." Crashers. ,, 
IN BRIEF 

A candlelight vigil in remem­brance of Sept. 11 will take place around the South Quad flagpole tonight at 8:30. The event is sponsored by the class of 2008 and is open to all Notre Dame students. 
An exhibit entitled "Caras Vernos, Corazones No Sabernos: The Human Landscape of Mexican Migration to the United States" is on display at the Snite Museum of Art until Nov. 12. Museum hours vary by day. Admission is free. 
A documentary callPd "Meeting Face to Face: The Iraq-US Labor Solidarity Tour" will be shown, accompanied by a lecture from Professor Michael Zwieg of SUNY Stony Brook, from 4:30 to 6 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. room ClOO. The event is part of the Labor History Film Series. 
Actors from the London Stage will perform "Hamlet" in Washington Hall at 7:30 p.m. from Sept. 13 to Sept. 15. Tickets are $18 for the general public, $16 for seniors/Notre Dame faculty and staff and $12 for students, and are available for purchase through the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center ticket office. 
Former U.S. Rep. Tim Roemer will present a talk titled "Safeguarding America: National Security in the 21st Century" on Thursday, Sept. 14 at 7 p.m. in the DeBartolo Hall auditorium. The event is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

77 60 


78 60 
Colleen Kelly Joe Edmonds Nicholas Dan Lauren Rosemeyer Tim Gallo Laura Verwilst 
freshman freshman freshman freshman freshman freshman McGlinn Morrissey Siegfried Pasquerilla West Stanford McGlinn 
"/ didn't have to "/painted "! celebrated "/watched "/got some "/watched eat at the Lyons Hall blue with myfiance. , all the well-deserved 'Wedding 
dining hall, and gold in sportscasters courtesy ofmy return for change their friend's supporting the opinions about 
,

parents. enemy. ND." 
N.Y. Woman Wins $1 Million Lottery Again 
NEW YORK -A woman who won $1 million from a state lottery game four years ago has improbably hit the jackpot again. 
Valerie Wilson, who works at a Long Island deli, said she won another $1 million on a lottery scratch-off game last month. 
"The first time I couldn't believe it," Wilson told Newsday. "This time I said, 'God's on my side."' 
Wilson, 56, beat some long odds to pull off her double victory. 
In 2002, her winning 
TODAY 
a:: 


that her fiance was cheat­
ing on her is turning her 
would-be reception into a 
charity benefit. 
''I'm really just trying to turn it around and make something positive out of it," said Kyle Paxman. 
Paxman, 29, had planned to celebrate her nuptials at the Basin Harbor Club on Lake Champlain on Saturday. When she found out about her fiance, she called off the 180-guest wedding and the four-year relation­ship. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

ticket in the Cool Million scratch-off game, which has since been discontin­ued, was a shot of 1 in 5.2 million, according to the New York State Lottery. Last month, she beat odds of 1 in 705,600 when she got the $1 million prize in the New York lottery's Jubilee scratch-off game. 
Overall, her chances of winning both games were a slim 1 in 3,669, 120,000,000. 
Jilted Bride Turns Wedding Into Benefit 
VERGENNES, Vt. -A woman who learned six weeks before her wedding 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
LLI :::1: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
.... 
II( (.) 


0 

HIGH 70
..... 

LOW 55 

HIGH LOW 


68 58 

73 55 

Monday, September 11, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Saint Mary's improves workout facility 
ence of working out at health clubs and went to Notre
By COLLEEN McGOWAN 
Angela," she said. Dame to exercise," said 
News Wrirer 
Billings agreed, and also Kachmarik. 
lamented the facility's con­She was deterrninnd not only 
This fall four new tn:~ad­strained to keep Saint rnills. four new ellipticals and space. Mary's students two 1ww upright bikes were "A differ­on campus. but introducrd to the Saint Mary's ent room "Due to the limited to giv(~ them AngPla Athletic Centf'r. The for the facilities and poor con-sumnthing to be CollPgl' spent more than classes proud of as wPll.
ditions ofthat equip­
$30.000 on the new machines would be Kachmarik and repair of old ones. gr~at, ".. sl~e ment, the women of also said that the Senior Melissa Newland said said. Its Saint Mary'sjoined administration in the past the machines were so awk-has been sup­
private health clubs 
dil'licult to begin using due to ward hav-portive of a "top­the wait for the "good ones." . ing every­and went to Notre of-the-line" facil­She also said that when she thing going Dame to exercise. " ity idea since its started here, many machines on in one conception. were constantly out of order area." Since the topic
Lynn Kachmarik

and out of date. Athletic was originally 
Waits are no longer a prob­Director athletic director raised, the facili­lem, according to sophomore L y n n ty has acquired Jessica Billings. Kachmarik eight treadmills, 
"Last year, there was always said the College is always 30 spin bikes, eight ellipticals, a wait, and sometimes for up looking for ways to improve 10 stair masters, six rowing to a half hour," she said. "This the facility further, but the machines, eight upright bikes, year, there is no wait and it is facility has now reached its free weights, "every weight much easier to capacity for machine imaginable" and a work out." electricity usage wall climbing machine. 
Holy Cross "Last year, there and space. The Saint Mary's Parent sophomore Kyle was always a wait, W h e n Council has donated over Murphy com­Kachmarik $300,000 to the Angela
and sometimes for 

mended the new started at Saint Athletic Facility in the past six features the Life up to a halfhour. " Mary's in 1998, years for new equipment and Fitness tread­the exercise renovation. mills offer, like equipment in The Center is open to the
Jessica Billings 

the heart rate Angela Athletic Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and
sophomore

and calorie mon­Facility definite-Holy Cross communities itor, and the ly needed Monday through Thursday 6 incline option. replacing, she said. Before a.m. to 11 p.m., Friday 6 a.m. 
Junior Abby Hinchey said then, Angela had only a few to 5 p.m., Saturday 8 a.m. to she likes the new machines, Nautilus machines that were 5p.m. (except football but said it is still "boring to really built for men. Saturdays) and Sunday from work out there." "Due to the limited facilities 10 a.m. to 11 p.m. 
"Having music playing or and poor conditions of that the televisions on would really equipment, the women of Contact Colleen McGowan at improve the overall experi-Saint Mary's joined private cmcgowO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Tickets 
continued from page 1 
sold them the fake ticket. 
But ushers can't catch every inautlumtic ticket. Of the few hundred counterfeits circulat­ing on Saturday, not all were spotted. causing confusion when more than onn person was assigned to a seat. 
"The usher has a procedure to decide which party should be eseorted to the ticket oflice [in that easel," Berlo said. 


Football 
continued from page 1 
game "one of the greatest football experiences I've ever had." 
"You can just feel the tradi­tion," Hogue said. "It's so unique for college football and something you can only find here." 
The first home game held surprises even for veteran upperclassmen, including the distribution of green towels bearing the words "Go Irish! 9-3 is not good enough." The towels were meant to raise awareness for Hannah and Friends, a nonprofit organi­zation founded by Charlie and Maura Weis, which works to improve the quality of life for those with special needs. 
"I loved the towels," said junior Scott Allen, who watched the game from a slightly different perspective 

Both buyers and sellers should beware this weekend, Berlo said, since the under­cover force will be out again for the Nci'tre Dame vs. Michigan game. 
To make sure their ticket is authentic, fans should look for a three-dimensional silver hologram with a pin when! inside. 
"If you don't see that, it's probably not a valid tirkPt." Berlo said. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
as a tuba player for the marching band. "It was like the field was surrounded by chaos." 
Weis introduced another new Irish football tradition on Saturday when the team joined students in singing the Alma Mater at the end of the game. 
"Singing the Alma Mater at the end of the game was awe­some," freshman Claire Connell said. ''It was a really unifying experience -you felt like part of the team." 
Now a Notre Dame football veteran, Hogue said even for a game as hyped as this one, it lived up to and exceeded its billing. 
"This game really exceeded all of my expectations," he said. "Well, actually, you can't have an expectation for something like this. It's some­thing you have to experi­ence." 
Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 

me 

.. 
May 16-June 17, 2007 
""All returning ND & St. Mary's undergraduates eligible ../Four and one-half week study in London ../Mid session study/travel to Paris, Normandy, Belfast, or Amsterdam ../Earn 6 credit hours ../Still have 2 months of summer left when you return! 
Information Sessions for 2007 2008 Programmes: 

11:30 to 12:30 PJvL DeBartolo 101 or 5:00 to 6:00P.M. DeBartolo 136 
Applications are available at 223 Brownson Hall or on-line at \V\Vw.nd.edu/-sumlon 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 11, 2006 



Attacks 
continued from page 1 
not have died in vain." 
Since that day, Cota said, she is more aware of the fragility of life. 
"I think one of my biggest fears would be dying in an acci­dent like that and not being able to tell the people I love how much they mean to me," she said. " ... I never end a con­versation with someone without saying 'I love you."' 
Guillette said he loves life and is living out his dream of attending Notre Dame. But he worries that, five years later, people have gone back to nor­mal. He cited his hometown of Burlington, Vt. as an example and said during the months fol­lowing Sept. 11, about 85 per­cent of homes displayed flags. Now, only about 20 percent do, he said. 

Shields 
continued from page 1 
in the capital city and used that topic to compare the viewpoints of various Washington bigwigs. 
"Secretary Don Rumsfeld wants to bomb the Canary Islands, Senator Hillary Clinton proving her hawk­
"I believe in pol­itics; I believe that politics is nothing more and nothing less than the peaceable resolution of conflict among legitimate and powerful interests," he said. "I don't know in a nation as big, broad, sprawling, diverse and wonderful as ours, how else we would resolve our differ­ences -except through the commitment, the care, the compassion, the sense of jus­tice, the intelligence and the dedication of people involved in the political process." 
Shields spoke about the sat­isfaction he gets from the political process, and he encouraged others present to get involved. 
"There is truly no enterprise in life, I believe, that com­pares to involvement in a political campaign ... all emo­tions are laid bare," he said. "I would encourage any and all of you ... to get involved in politics. It is something that once it's in your blood, it will be hard to get out." 
Shields said that most people go through life trying to avoid rejection facing quiet victories and defeats, but politicians are the only individuals who have rejection exposed pub­licly.
' 
"I particularly like politi­

' 
t cians who can accept the ver­
t 
dict of the voters ... with dig­
' 
~ nity, with poise," he said. 
' 
According to Shields, nobody
'
'. 
exemplified that better than Dick Tuck of Los Angeles. 
"The people have spoken, the bastards," he said after losing a primary. 
"Freedom is not free but we think it is," Guillette said. "I think the American public has fallen by the wayside as far as remembering Sept. 11." 
Political science professor David Campbell said Sept. 11 has moved into "the middle of Americans' minds." 
"Immediately after 9/11, there was a lot of evidence that Americans became more caring and trusting in each other and more involved in their commu­nities," Campbell said. "But that dissipated after three months." 
While it was a turning point · in American history, Americans for the most part have reverted back to pre-Sept. 11 life, Campbell said, pointing out that partisanship is once again a characteristic of American political life. 
Junior Evan Williamson said people may not talk about Sept. 11 as much or have big plans to commemorate the anniversary, 
Shields then spoke about the very serious topic of courage, saying Harry Truman was exemplary for ending segrega­tion in the armed forces despite numerous objections from Congress, because Truman thought it was funda­mentally unjust and un­American to discriminate against those fighting and 
dying  for  their  
country.  
Shields  spoke  

ish credentials "! believe that highly of several wants to nuke the others who stood
politics at its best 
Canary Islands out in the political 
and President ... can make ours environment, past 
[George W.] Bush a world where the and present. wants to know "I liked Ronald
powerful are more
where the Canary Regan because he Islands are," he just, where the was able to make said. weak will be more fun of himself and He later neutralize his crit­
secure.

changed gears to ics, he said, emphasize the despite the fact value of politics in Mark Shields that Shields often modern life. Notre Dame alumnus disagreed with 
him. 
Shields com­

mended former majority leader Michael Mansfield for his work trying to restore the Republican Party's position on civil rights after it was perceived as hav­but that does not mean they have forgotten it. 
"I think people are moving on with what's important," Williamson said. "You don't want to forget about it, but you don't want it to cripple your life." 
Williamson said the terrorist attacks did remove the "aura of invincibility" that Americans may have felt prior to that date. 
After the attacks, security concerns were a major fear for many Americans. The Department of Homeland Security was formed and air­ports strengthened their securi­ty measures. Cota said she flies all the time but tries not to worry about the threat of another terror attack. 
"I think it would be very easy to become obsessed with wor­rying," she said. "I feel like you can live your whole life in fear or you can focus on the good things around you." 
Guillette said he thinks 
ing sold out on the issue. Mansfield, Shields noted, had also served in all three mili­tary branches by the time he turned 20. 
He also praised former four­star Marine gen­eral Anthony Zinni Americans are safer today than they were five years ago. He said he trusts the government and the CIA to uncover terrorist plots and prevent them from happening. 
Guillette said people need 
to  practice  patience  
and  comply with  the  
new  airport  safety proce­ 

dures. 

"I think what we are doing at the airports is great," Guillette said. "It's better to spend three hours checking in than to check out in the air." 
Campbell said although the government has uprooted the al-Qaeda movement, future ter­rorist attacks remain a possibil­ity. 
"We will always be at risk of a terrorist attack," Campbell said. "And that could come from al-Qaeda or an affiliate, or it could come from an entirely different group." 
In addition to the ROTC serv­ice, University President Father 
best ... can make ours a world where the powerful are more just, where the weak will be more secure," he said. 
Shields also said that this is 
the reason graduates of the University should be involved in 
for his pre-war politics.
"Bring your 
caveat. "When we "The funda­
passion, your
go into Iraq and mental questions invade," Zinni energy, your you will face ... warned. "We shall will be confront­
idealism, your
become the ed, and I hope
intelligence.
Western, Chris­resolved in the tian, pro-Israeli They're always in political and gov­invading and short supply." ernmental area," occupying a he said. Muslim Holy He said the 
Mark Shields
Land." greatest issues According to Notre Dame alumnus for Notre Dame 
Shields, America's leaders ought to have listened. 
"I don't know what part of that phrase George Bush and Don Rumsfeld don't under­stand," he said. 
Shields said politics and gov­ernment were at their best when working for justice, cit­ing accomplishments of his era including the G.l. Bill and the cleaning of the Great Lakes from industrial pollution. 
"I believe that politics at its 
students today 
are those of war 
and peace. 

"The values of justice ... that you learn here are absolutely essential to that debate," he said. 
He offered his thoughts on war and then challenged the audience. 
"War demands equality of sacrifice," he said. "This is a war where all the sacrifice is being borne by less than one third of one percent of all John Jenkins will preside at a 
5:15 Mass at the Grotto. At 8:30 p.m., a candlelight prayer vigil will be held on the South Quad at the flagpole. The Saint Mary's Campus Ministry will sponsor a memorial prayer service at 4:30 p.m. at the Stapleton Lounge. 
Guillette said as Americans celebrate the fifth anniversary of the terrorist attacks, they need to stop taking freedom for granted and honor the soldiers, past and present, who have fought for freedom. 
"Just say thank you," he said. 
Campbell said Notre Dame students should learn from the example of Americans in the months following the attacks. 
"They have a responsibility of remembering that three month period after 9/11 when Americans were brought together," he said. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Americans. 

"That should be morally unacceptable to Americans. I would hope that would be something you would think about and do something about." 
Before closing, he invoked the social and economic progress of the past and hope for the future through a new generation. 
"Each of us has been warmed by fires we did not build, each of us has drunk from wells that we did not dig," he said metaphorically. "Together with your energy, your idealism, your commit­ment, you can do a lot more." 
In a post-lecture interview, Shields reiterated his encour­agement for Notre Dame stu­dents to go to Washington. 
"Come to Washington," he said. "Washington needs you, 
Washington  needs  Notre  
Dame,  [and]  Notre  Dame  
needs Washington.  

"Bring your passion, your energy, your idealism, your intelligence. They're always in short supply." 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rysdlik@nd.edu 


LONDON PROGRAM APPLICATION MEETING 
I=t1R FALL 2007 c~ SI>RINC1 2008 Wednesday, Septenll)er 13, 2006 101 DeBartolo 6:00 prn 
"-~OPH0~10RE ~ FRo··~1 AI. 1· C., OJ. 1· .E..., ....., E..... ("""(
~ . ·· .. 1' . :x. ~ :x. .1~ _. ... ... ......... G ...... ~ ARE w-ELCO~IEI 

~------------~­




ORLD & NATION 
Monday, September 11, 2006 CC)MPILED fROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Bermuda braces for storm damage 
HAMILTON, Bermuda-Florence intensified into the second hurricane of the Atlantic sea­son Sunday as it neared Bermuda, where resi­dents stocked up on provisions and formed long lines at gas stations in the lashing rain. 
Florence was expected to pass "very near" the tiny British territory Monday, according to the National Hurricane Center in Miami. 
Shopkeepers and homeowners boarded up windows and doors, with one closed flower shop bearing the sign: "We've gone away to chase away Florence. Back Tuesday." 
The Category 1 hurricane, which had had maximum sustained winds near 90 mph Sunday afternoon, was expected to become a Category 2 hurricane as it passes Bermuda, according to the hurricane center. 
With hurricane-force winds that extend up to 60 miles from the storm's eye, even a near­miss could cause substantial damage, forecast­nrs said. 
Blair wins promise to resume talks 
RAMALLAH, West Bank-Prodded by Britain's visiting leader, the Israeli prime min­ister and Palestinian president said Sunday they are ready to resume contacts without conditions -a small step that many people hope could lead to resuming peace talks. 
British Prime Minister Tony Blair also tried to draw l-lamas into peace efforts, but the mil­itant Islamic group that controls the Palestinian government rejected his condition that it first renounce violenee and recognize Israel. 
Despite llamas' tough stance, the readiness of Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas to meet was the first sign of movement in peacemaking in months. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Atlantis to supply space station parts 
· HOUSTON -The space shuttle Atlantis, with a preliminary clean bill of health, is about to make a 17 1/2-ton delivery. 
Astronauts Monday morning will use the shuttle's robotic arm to remove a giant truss with two attached solar wings from the shut­tle's cargo bay and hand it over to the inter­national space station. With that cosmic delivery, Atlantis, just two days ofT the launch pad, will have accomplished a big chunk of its main mission. 
Atlantis' mission is to resume construction on the international space station after a three-year hiatus following the loss of the spaee shuttle Columbia. 
The more than 300-foot-long truss will pro­vide power, data and temperature control to the station's eleetronics. 

Earthquake rattles eastern gulf coast 
TAMPA, Fla. -A magnitude 6.0 earth­quake in the Gulf of Mexico sent shock waves through an area from Louisiana to southwest Florida on Sunday, but no damage was reported, the U.S. Geological Survey said. 
The earthquake was too small to trigger a tsunami or dangerous waves, the agency said. The USGS received more than 2,800 reports from people who felt the 10:56 a.m. quake. 
Scientists said it was the largest and most widely felt of more than a dozen earthquakes recorded in the eastern Gulf of Mexico in the last 30 years. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana property taxes set to rise 
INDIANAPOLIS-Hoosier homeowners and businesses could face sticker shock when a slew of property tax changes kick in next year, bringing significantly higher tax bills for some. 
State legislative analysts say the shake-up, on average, will mean a 15 percent increase in homeowners' taxes. Increases for commer­cial property are likely to be lower. 
With the 2006 election less than two months away, voters will be choosing lawmakers who could find themselves confronting the biggest tax challenges since Indiana overhauled prop­erty assessments live years ago. 



Bush lays wreath at ground zero 
President and First Lady attend memorial, prayer service for Sept. 11 victims 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -President Bush and his wife Laura stood in somber silence on Sunday after laying wreaths at the ground zero site where the twin towers of the World Trade Center'once stood. They honored the victims of the Sept. 11 attacks on a tour that will take them to all three sites of devastation on the f1fth anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
The Bushes set floral wreaths adrift in ponds of water that mark the for­mer location of the north and south towers. They uttered no words, and walked hand-in-hand on the floor of the cavernous pit, after a slow procession down the long, flag-lined ramp from the street level four to five stories above. 
The Bushes then attend­ed a service of prayer and remembrance at nearby St. Paul's Chapel. 
The 240-year-old Epis­copal church, across the street from the site, escaped damage and became a center of refuge for weary rescue workers. 
They were the first stops of ne.arly 24 hours of observances at the three sites where terrorists wrought death and destruction and trans­
Giuliani, who was New United States," Cheney ists.
formed his presidency. 
York mayor at the time of said on NBC's "Meet the Secretary of State
Nearly 3,000 Americans 
the attacks. Press." "And that's not an Condoleezza Rice cited were killed in the attacks. 
Across New York, resi­accident." additional security at portsOn Monday, the anniver­dents marked the day at On television and news­and airports and increased sary, he was to visit with other ceremonies large paper opinion columns, cooperation among intelli­
firefighters and other 
and small. From a service Cabinet secretaries and gence agencies, a point
emergency workers at a 
of remembrance at St. agency heads sought to echoed by the nation's
firehouse in lower man­
Patrick's Cathedral in mid­make the case that the intelligence ehief, Johnhattan; attend a ceremony town Manhattan to a ehant government under Bush Negroponte.
at the field in Shanksville, 
at a Buddhist temple on has made important Democrats, however,Pa., where one of the 
Staten Island, New changes that have less­contend the administration hijacked planes hurtled to Yorkers observed the ened the risk of attack. has !'allen short because so
the ground; and partici­
somber anniversary with Cheney focused on anti­little cargo is inspected at 
pate in a wreath-laying 
prayer and reflection. terrorism efforts that he U.S. ports and chemical ceremony at the Pentagon. 
Even before Bush left has been instrumental in plants, and other high­
He also was to spr;)ak to Washington, surrogates supporting: a warrantless value "sites are vulnerable.
Americans during a 
from Vice President Dick wiretapping program to "I think we're in trou­prime-time address Mon­Cheney on down spent the monitor the international ble," said Democratic
day night from the Oval 
Sept. 11 anniversary's eve communications of people National Committee chair­Office. 
vigorously defending the in America with suspected man Howard Dean. "WeAccompanying the presi­administration's record on ties to al-Qaida; a system have not pursued the war
dent and first lady at 
improving the national to track international on terror with the vigorground zero were New 
defense over the past five financial transactions; and that we should haveYork Gov. George Pataki, 
years. tough policies on the because we've gotten
New York Mayor Michael 
"There has not been detention and interroga­bogged down in this civilBloomberg, and Rudy 
another attack on the tions of suspected terror-war in Iraq." 



Video shows Sept. 11 preparations 
subtitles -surfaced on the eve of in Afghanistan, as well as video
Associated Press 
the fifth anniversary of the attacks clips of U.S. Vice President Dick 

CAIRO, Egypt -A videotape post­on a Web site that frequently airs Cheney defending his old job at the ed on the Internet late Sunday, pur­messages from bin Laden's terror oil company Halliburton, and portedly by al-Qaida, showed previ­network. President Bush at his inauguration. ously unseen footage of a smiling "Planning for Sept. 11 did not take Excerpts of the footage aired on Osama bin Laden and other com­place behind computer monitors or Al-Jazeera television on Thursday, manders in a mountain camp radar screens, nor inside military and al-Qaida had said it would later apparently planning the Sept. 11 command and control centers, but release the full video on the attacks on New York and was surrounded with divine protec­Internet. The video released Sunday Washington. tion in an atmosphere brimming was stamped with the emblem of 
The 55-minute documentary-like with brotherliness ... and love for As-Sahab, al-Qaida's media branch. retrospective of the five years since sacrificing life," an unidentified nar­It included the last testament of the attacks was unusually long and rator said. two of the Sept. 11 hijackers, Wail sophisticated in its production qual­The tape showed the al-Qaida al-Shehri and Hamza al-Ghamdi, ity compared to previous al-Qaida leader and meeting with colleagues and showed bin Laden strolling in videos. The footage -with English in a mountain camp believed to be the camp, greeting followers. 
--------------. 
page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 11, 2006 
"Mass of Remembrance on the Fifth Anniversary of September 11, ZOO 1" 
Tonight 5:15pm at the Grotto 
(Rain location: Basilica of the Sacred Heart) 
Presider: Fr. John Jenkins, esc, President of the University 

Homilist: Fr. Richard Warner, esc, 
Director of Campus Ministry 

Music will be provided by the · combined choirs of Campus Ministry and the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
* There will be no regular 5:15pm Daily Mass in the Basilica on Monday, September 11, 2006. 
.THE OBSERVER 




USINESS

Monday, September 11, 2006 page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

11,392.11 +60.67

}ones 
up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I ,988 129 I ,248 2,138,375,536 

AMEX 
NASDAQ 
2,165.79 
NYS£'i"'i!}•···· ············· 'II; ,···· siiJ~~t:::m:mil!!itll;l!t•!l!l!':·· 
S&PSOO 1,298.92 +4.90 
NIKK£1(l'okyf)! 1:1:.. ,.1·1-~jil;t·m •l:i:i;!il~2iU~9~· FTSE IOO(London) 5,879.30 +21.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  +0.62  +0.24  38.72  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +1.20  +0.23  19.45  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -0.20  -0.0 I  4.90  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.67  +0.17  25.60  
JDS UNIPHASE CP UDSU)  -1.42  -0.03  2.08  
Treasuries  
I 0-YEAR NOTE  -0.50  -0.024  4.771  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.62  -0.030  4.800  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.47  -0.023  4.916  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.68  -0.032  4.703  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.07  66.25  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -7.60  617.30  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.23  91.53  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  116.7850  
EURO  0.7895  
POUND  0.5361  
CANADIAN$  1.1207  

IN BRIEF 
FedEx contract faces full union vote 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. -A proposed contract for pilots of FedEx Express, operator of the world's largest cargo airline, is heading to union members for a vote. 
The FedEx Master Executive Council, the governing body of the FedEx pilots' union, approved the proposed contract late Friday and recommended approval to the pilots. 
FedEx Express, the largest division of Memphis-based FedEx Corp., and its 4, 700 pilots represented by the Air Line Pilots Association first reached a tentative agree­ment Aug. 26 after negotiating since March 2004. 
Voting by the pilots begins Sept. 18 and runs through Oct. 17. 
"If ratified by our members, FedEx pilots will have a contract that a'eknowledges their hard work and contributions to an industry­leading company -in pay, pension benefits, healih care, and retiree medical coverage," said Capt. David Webb, chairman of the FedEx Master Executive Council. 

Safety-tester fights counterfitting 
WASliiNGTON· For 112 years, Underwriters Laboratories Inc. has made its mark on everything from fire doors to night lights, with the familiar "UL" seal of approval assuring consumers a product is safe. 
The independent testing organization, a not-for-profit company, says it provides its services at cost to manufacturers worldwide that voluntarily pay abo'ut $700 million a year to have products inspected. 
But companies in China and elsewhere are making it more difficult for UL to do its job because some of their goods are entering 
U.S. ports with fake UL certification marks. 
In July, the company advised consumers that it had not evaluated certain adapters, lighting fixtures and heavy-duty dryer and extension cords circulating in the United States and that all of the products bore coun­terfeit UL marks. 
In August, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission recalled about 600,000 Chinese-made extension cords that were con­sidered a shock hazard because of under­sized wire and substandard insulation. Those cords also bore counterfeit UL labels. 



County plans high-tech landfill 
St. Lucie Co., Florida, to generate electricity using process that vaporizes waste 
Associated Press 
FORT PIERCE, Fla. -A Florida county has grand plans to ditch its dump, gen­erate. electricity and help build roads -all by vapor­izing garbage at tempera­tures hotter than parts of the sun. 
The $425 million facility expected to be built in St. Lucie County will use light­ning-like plasma arcs to turn trash into gas and rock-like material. It will be the first such plant in the nation operating on such a massive scale and the largest in the world. 
Supporters say the process is cleaner than tra­ditional trash incineration, though skeptics question whether the technology can meet the lofty expectations. 
The 100,000-square-foot plant, slated to be opera­tional in two years, is expected to vaporize 3,000 tons of garbage a day. County officials estimate their entire landfill -4.3 million tons of trash collect­ed since 1978 -will be gone in 18 years. 
No byproduct will go unused, according to Geoplasma, the Atlanta­based company building and paying for the plant. 

Synthetic, combustible gas produced in the process will be used to run turbines to create electricity -about ident of Geoplasma, a sub­to be harder for existing like everybody else," said 120 megawatts a day -sidiary of Jacoby Develop­landfills to continue to Leo Cordeiro, the county's that will be sold back to the ment Inc. expand." solid waste director. "We grid. The facility will oper­For years, some waste­The plasma-arc gasifica­knew there were better ate on about a third of the management facilities have tion facility in St. Lucie ways." power it generates, free been converting methane -County, on central Florida's No emissions are releasHd from outside electricity. created by rotting trash in Atlantic Coast, aims to solve during the closed-loop gasi­
About 80,000 pounds of landfills -to power. Others that problem by eliminating fication, Geoplasma says. steam per day will be sold also burn trash to produce the need for a landfill. Only The only emissions will to a neighboring Tropicana electricity. two similar facilities are come from the synthetic Products Inc. facility to· But experts say popula­operating in the world -gas-powered turbines that power the juice plant's tur­tion growth will limit space both in Japan -but are create electricity. Even that bines. available for future landfills. gasifying garbage on a will be cleaner than burning 
Sludge from the county's "We've only got the size of much smaller seale. coal or natural gas, Hxperts wastewater treatment plant the planet," said Richard Up to eight plasma arc­say. will be vaporized, and a Tedder, program adminis­equipped cupolas will Few other toxins will be material created from melt­trator for the Florida vaporize trash year-round, generated, if any at all, ed organic matter -up to Department of Environ­nonstop. Garbage will be Geoplasma says. 600 tons a day -will be mental Protection's solid brought in on conveyor But critics disagree. hardened into slag, and sold waste division. "Because of belts and dumped into the "We've found projects for use in road and con­all of the pressures of devel­cylindrical cupolas where it similar to this being misrep­struction projects. opment, people don't want falls into a zone of heat resented all over the coun­
"This is sustainability in landfills. It's going to be more than 10,000 degrees try," said Monica Wilson of its truest and finest form," harder and harder to site Fahrenheit. the Global Alliance for said Hilburn Hillestad, pres-new landfills, and it's going "We didn't want to do it Incinerator Alternatives. 


Iraqi official recruits oil interests 
He spoke of Iraq emerging as a rules for managing Iraq's huge 

Associated Press "secure petro-democracy" with the petroleum reserves would be 
strength to put an end to the vio­approved in parliament by year's 

ABU DHABI, U.A.E. -A top Iraqi lence that threatens to tear the end. 
official called for partnerships with country apart. "This will open Iraq's oil sector for 
international companies to boost his "I don't underestimate the gravity investment," Saleh said. "We know 
country's oil industry on Sunday, of the situation in Iraq," Saleh said what it takes. It takes partnerships 
saying Iraq's emergence as a during a U.N.-and U.S.-sponsored with international oil companies." 
"secure petro-democracy" could Iraq donor conference in the Foreign oil companies, with their 
quell rampant sectarian violence. Emirates capital of Abu Dhabi. "We huge investment clout and technolo­
Deputy Prime Minister Barham are in a very critical situation." gy, are best placed to quickly mod­
SalHh, a Kurd, conceded disputes Iraqi leaders are nearing agree­ernize Iraq's oil sector and meet the 
between lo.cal officials and the cen­ment on a long-awaited hydrocar­country's goal of doubling the cur­
tral government over who controls bon law that could usher in huge rent crude production of 2.5 million 
oil proceeds were one of many investments by foreign companies in barrels per day by 2010, Saleh said. 
obstacles to making improvements. Iraq's oil sector -and eventually But the absence of a legal frame­
But he said he was hopeful that oil rescue the embattled country from work governing investments and 
would be a "unifying force for Iraqis deepening chaos, Saleh said. ownership of the country's oil 
rather than a resource to fight The deputy prime minister said he resources has hampered foreign 
over." expected the law setting ground investment in the sector. 
THE OBSERVER 
page 8 


THE OBSERVER 
1M lntkpendent, Daily Newspapn-.Vr-vittg Notre Dam~ and Saint MdryS 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gonumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS:· Kate Antonacci 
Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: JeffAlbert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
• NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu. 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the 
University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's 
. College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinio.ns through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
llu: Observer (USPS 5'J9 l-4000) is published Munday rhrough Friday -acepr during t-xarn and V';l;C.ltJOn pt'tiods. A ~uh!.uiptiou to The O~rvcr is $1 On for one ru.•dt:mJC year: $55 fnroncsemt":S(cr. 
The Observer is published dt: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send .1ddres5 corr«tions to: Noue Dame. IN 46SS6-0n9 The Observer Periodical posuge paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offico::s. 014 South Dining Hall 
Nom Dame, fN 465-56-on9 
The Obl.erver is .t memh<:r ofthe Associarcd Pre;s. All n:production rights ar• t=rvcd. 





IEWPOINT 
Monday, September 11, 2006 

Game show fever 
Nothing says America like the tnlevised image of an over-caffeinated, overweight, underdressed, middle-aged housewife prancing around like a sugar plum fairy on coke because she won a new toaster oven for knowing the 11 most popular hot dog condiments at Wrigley Field. For that matter, neither does the sound of an enraged wandfather blowing out steam that had been build­ing up in his emphy­sematic lungs since the Great Depression because the unfortu­nate positioning of a plastic wheel resulted in the loss of his $200 and a trip for two to Boca Haton. 
In America, game shows are so much more than mindless entertainment-thny are a way of life. 
Just ask Notre Dame senior Dan Keough. 

Inspired by his high sehoul teachers in Chattanooga, Tennessee -many of whom based their careers on tlw "those that can't do ... teach" philosophy of life­Dan had a moment of existential awaken­ing after a night of heavy drinking this summer· in New York City. 
Like the great poet Rob1~rt Frost, he decided to take the road less traveled and deline his life by a new shibboleth: "Those that can't get a paid internship ... make money on game shows." If only he could have grasped at the time that, like Gautama before him, his enlighienment would lead him down a path of intense mental anguish and physical hardship that would alter the very core of his being. 
With this new sense of direction to his previously wayward and vagabpnd lifestyle, Dan took the bold and Moses-like step of parting through the Red Sea of 

Joey 
Falco 

forty Ounces 
to Falco 

game show applications available on the Sinai of' inf(mnation that is the Internet. Aftnr he climbed that digital mountain of' binary eode, the divine voice of' Meredith Vieira came to him and asked the fatnful question: Who wants to be a millionaire? The rnst, as they say, is history. 
Dan quickly lnarned that his rare com­bination of Scott Weiland-like intelligence, Carson Daly-like personality, and William 
II. Macy-like good looks was just what it took to hurtle him through the testing and intervinw procnss and land him a guaran­tned spot on thn show later that summer. 
Whereas most human beings would havo greeted this news with a celebratory glass of Scotch and several weeks of prnparatory relaxation, Dan proved once and for all that his Crnator didn't endow him with a hulking 6-f(tot-6 frame so that he could waste away in Margaritaville. Nay, Dan lifted high the metaphorical cross of gamn-showmanship and began a mental workout regimen that made Yoda's training of' Luke Skywalker on Dagobah seem like a kindergart.nn gym class. 
Day in and day out for the rnst of' the summer, Dan did nothing but eat, sleep, and breathe "Who Wants to Be a 
·Millionaire'?" Thanks to the wonders of Comcast, DVH, and the Game Show Network, he was abln to take on the role of a depressed housewife and binge on three episodes every morning. Afternoons, following a eareful sequence of sit-ups, squat thrusts, and jumping jacks, he would play the "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?" board game against himself. since no other mortal could have possibly chall!mged his superior intellect in such a venue. Evenings and weekends, he creat­ed a "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire'?" drinking game, although the only libations worthy of touching his divine lips were, of course, ambrosia and Sparks. 
After many weeks of tireless dedication and agonizing cranial stimulation, Dan 
reached a plateau of supernatural under­
. standing and universal harmony that rivaled Hoeky Balboa's elated Riverdance up the steps of the Philadelphia Art Museum at the culmination of his train­ing. Like a mouthwatering Taco Bell Crunch Wrap Supreme, Dan truly was good to go. For contractual rnasons. what followed when he finally went head to head with Merndith Vieira in her chamber of death cannot be expressed in this forum. Also, like staring directly into the sun or hear­ing the spoken word of God. reading about Dan's "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire'?" performance would certain­ly cause an instantaneous physical handi­cap to all who gaze upon this newspaper. The lawsuits that this would prompt would most likely bring about the demise of The Observer, thereby forcing all Notre Dame students to rPad the Irish Rover on a daily basis. And that, my friends, sounds about as fun as a kirk in the crotch with a steel-toed boot. • So instead, like Yahweh on the first sev­enth day in the history of time, simply remembf1r to rest from your typically chaotic lifestyle and tune in to watch Dan's "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?" appearance next Monday, Sept. 18, at 
12:30 p.m. on ABC. You'lllaugh, you'll cry, you'll sing, you'll dance; you might even fall madly in love with Dan's Covergirl smile or his new gross earnings potential. Just check out tlw show yourself and cheer on a true loyal son of Notre Dame. 
After all, in the words of Lavar "Butterfly in the Sky" Burton, "You don't have to take my word for it." 
Joey Falco is a senior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics, and Democracy minor. lie can be reached at jfalco@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Sports  OBSERVER POLL  
Laura  Eric Retter  
Baumgartner  Chris Hire  What will be the most testing  
Eileen Duffy Steve Kerins  Michael Bryan Ken Fowler  football game for the Irish?  
Viewpoint Lianna  Scene Cassie Belek  Vote by Thursday ~t  5 p.m.  
Brauweiler  at www.ndsmcobserver.com  
Joey King  
Graphics  
Jarred Wafer  

Submit aLetter ~ 
,to the Editor at ' 
~ www.ndsmcobserver.com f 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Opening the door to your own life is, in the end, more difficult than opening the doors to the mysteries of the universe. " 
Daisaku Ikeda president of Soka Gakkai International 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Monday; September 11, 2006 page 9 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Check facts 

before making 
accusations 

In response to Gary Caruso '73 ["Ignoring the Penn. Guard in Iraq," 8 Sept.], his conversation with an unnamed National Guardsman has apparently given him the strategic knowledge to disparage the Marine Corps and the entire logistical network in Iraq. While this Guardsman has certainly earned the right to complain and even the right to make broad allegations against higher headquarters (which is almost tradition among combat troops and should be weighted accordingly), for Mr. Caruso to repeat spurious allegations from one sol­dier without any fact checking, and then to draw strategic conclusions from those observations, is imbecilic. 
Most horrifically, Mr. Caruso implies that 10 Marines are at fault for their deaths because of their alleged arro­gance in refusing to listen to the Pennsylvania National Guard. For him to make such a heinous, in-print asser­tion without any actual facts beyond the anecdotal, sec­ondhand opinion of one National Guardsman (who worked maintenance) is the true arrogance. The fact that Mr. Caruso could so callously and irresponsibly disparage the fallen is nauseating. Thus, however many tears Mr. Caruso may think be bas shed for "our troops," it is clear that they are not truly human beings to him. Because if he were to truly see them as human beings he would not so blithely use their deaths as little more than academic props to support some argument. 
And exactly what argument was he making anyways? That the U.S. military is humanly fallible? That military leaders are responsible for all that their unit does or fails to do? That people who make mistakes in combat get themselves or others killed? Those are not arguments, they are truisms. And I can assure Mr. Caruso that every­one in a chain of command, from General to Private First Class, is aware of and takes personal responsibility for the death of anyone they lead. They are the ones who have to make life and death decisions, such as balancing troop mobility against increased body armor, when any choice could easily cause more death. And they are the ones who live with permanent guilt over each death, whether they were at fault or not. 
They need neither Ivory Tower academics nor effete intellectuals to remind them of that. 
Babu Kaza alumni Class of '02 Sept. 9 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Take charge, serve 
The two letters by Clare Feeney bring a broader point to light that needs to be asked: who decides the foreign policy of the United States? Both Bushes were Yale alumni, and the Vietnam War was run by the "Beltway Chapter of the Harvard Alumni Association." Freshman year, a professor of mine challenged us all, "There are two Yale alums running for President. When is the first Notre Dame presi­dent? I challenge you all to be that President." 
I extend a different challenge, as some have already taken on a belief that they are preor­dained to be that President. I challenge every­one to become a part of the elite in this nation -not of the business elite, but of the policy­making elite. Notre Dame graduates are known for being leaders in service and volun­teerism. While so many students in The Bubble are being disillusioned with govern­ment's waste and special interest pandering, why don't we enter the government ourselves, as a group, becoming the policy and party elites, making decisions that affect the course of the nation for the better? For myself, I chal­lenge Notre Dame students not to necessarily become President, but to be involved in the political process, so that government may be directed not for the benefit of the few,. but for the common good of the majority of Americans and for the impoverished in this nation. We are among the best and brightest in America, and so I ask: what is our answer to the Kennedy challenge, "Ask not what your coun­try can do for you, but what you can do for your country?" We hear and answer so many calls to service while we are here at Notre Dame, but what better way to affect wide­spread change and answer the call to service after we graduate than through the govern­ment? I challenge you all to join me in work­ing to change the government in order to serve all the people, and not just the privileged few. 
Greg Dwoarjan senior Morrissey Hall Sept. 7 


Mistaken in war debate 
After reading Prof. David Harley's reply to my letter to the editor, I now wish to state that in my previous letter to the editor I was mistaken in some of my factual claims. Prof. Harley and I will still differ over the proper interpretation of the facts, to the extent we agree what they were, in the recent Hezbollah initiated war against Israel. 
Jerome Gilllman professor Department of philosophy Sept. 10 

Police to enforce laws 
Your editorial on the well known conflict of interest between Hoosier cops and underage drinkers was neither helpful nor thoughtful. 
It is a mistake to think law enforcement is intended to reduce "urges" or "crav­ings," particularly the well known, but hardly irrepressible urge not only to drink underage, but to do so to flagrant excess in the largest and noisiest groups possible. 
Law enforcement can only increase the costs of acting on urges to break the law. It can only do that if sanctions are swift and sure and imposed without regard to law breakers' preferences for a clean, well lit, and safe path on which to walk home. 
Underage drinkers would be safest, by your logic, if rectors placed free kegs in every section every Thursday at 5 p.m., and kept them coming until "closing" late Saturdays. 
Surely you owe your peers some deeper thought on this topic. 
A. Edward Manier professor 
Department of philosophy Sept. 8 
Quality of  
work matters  
In a recent article, CLAP takes the position that  
just compensation is based on how far one's wages  
go, not what one's work is actually worth. While  
their motives are respectable, minimum wage laws,  
far from promoting "social justice," are an insult to  
human dignity.  
One of the most basic human activities is work. It  
is one of the things God created man to do. There is  
an intimate connection between the value one pro­ 
duces and the wage one is paid. This, truly, is a  
worker being worthy of his wages. The fact of the  
matter is that while it may be possible to earn  
$12.10 an hour and still be on food stamps, the  
majority of Americans are not worth $12.10 an  
hour.  
Why? Because the majority of Americans are not  
capable of producing $12.10 an hour. Most low­ 
level service jobs do not produce much of cogniz­ 
able value. Why should they be paid as if they  
were?  
Insisting that everyone be paid an arbitrarily  
determined "living wage" breaks the connection  
between the value of one's work and the wages one  
receives for it. Instead of freely negotiating for the  
best wages one can find, one is told that people who  
know better have already decided that. Huxley  
would be proud.  
What could be more condescending than being  
told that a bunch of "experts" and college kids  
know better than you what your labor is worth?  
What could be more alienating than realizing that  
there is no real connection between one's labor and  
one's pay? That your wages are a result of social  
policy, not honestly negotiated compensation for the  
work of one's hands?  
On more factual terms, concluding from evidence  
that the minimum wage increase of 1996 had little  
effect on unemployment that raising the minimum  
wage to something like a "living wage" would have  
a similarly small effect is disingenuous. The wage  
increase in 1996 was a mere 40 cents, representing  
an approximate eight percent increase in wages.  
This is not that much. Going from $5.15 an hour to  
$12.10 an hour represents a 134 percent increase.  
The demand for labor may be relatively inelastic,  
but not that inelastic.  
Ryan Davidson graduate student off-campus Sept. 8  • •l l  
l••  
__j  

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 
Monday, September 11, 2006 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
DBR & The Mission pushes musical limits 

At left, DBR & The Mission's nine young musicians combine a string quartet, laptops, pianos, keyboards, turntables and dramas to achieve their unique sound. At right, group founder Daniel Bernard Roumain (DBR) plays violin, piano and laptop, and provides vocals. He founded DBR & The Mission in 2003 in New York City. 
Roumain acclaim in the music scene The pieces put forth a well-blended Each member clearly felt the music By ADAM BONOSKY 
around the United States and world. combination of funk, hip-hop and clas­they were playing and displayed it as Scene Writer 
On the stage, The Mission~ exuded sical music. Modern rhythms were well. In one performance, both 
energy and passion with every piece as worked into orchestrations that Roumain and Szemela were so overtak­
This past Friday, a revolution was the sound flowed off the stage to the brought a current feel to the string en with the song that they began head-brought to the Debartolo Performing audience. Each piece, while containing band. Each piece offered banging as they rocked Arts Center. Led by, Daniel Bernard certain signature Roumain themes, still a melody that challenged out on their violins. Roumain, ,Ihe Mission -a nine-piece had wonderfully distinct modes, the audience to rethink The pieces put forth a Roumain continued to band of potential and talent from New rhythms and moods that created an its preconceptions of work the audience,
well-blended
York City -tore down the dividers emotional ride through DBR's creative what music is and can which seemed to be a
combination offunk,
between genres of music in an awe­person. Adding to the experience was be by providing such a little hesitant to move some performance of fusion music. each band members' proficiency in the fusion that pleasantly hip-hop and classical and accept the new The show opened with Daniel instrument, allowing for pleasant sur­confused the mind and sound at first. This did­
music. Modern rhythms
Bernard Roumain (DBR) unassumingly prises and moments of interest in each broke down the cate­n't seem to phase The 
were worked into 
walking to center stage piece. gories that have previ­Mission at all, because it and lifting his violin off Lining the night were ously been impregnable. orchestrations that continued to perform its
Each piece, while

of its stand. His fellow truly amazing and moving Of the many memo­rousing songs and by
brought a current feel 
band members then containing certain solos from each member, rable pieces, one of par­the end of the night the
to the string band. 
took the stage -Earl signature Roumain creating a sense of awe ticular interest had the crowd was on its feet Maneein on the elec­with each performer. Mr. intent of invoking the and moving to the
themes still had

tro/acoustic violin, Grohowski's ability to pro­feel of Harlem. A syncopated beat from unique rhythms and melodies per­Matt Szemela on his wonderfully distinct vide the right compli­the drums brought a fresh feel to the formed by the band. By the end of the custom six-string vio­modes, rhythms and ments and incredible fills rhythm section that has been missing set, the audience had definitely been lin, Jon Weber on the for the music transformed from bands for a long time. The song sold on Roumain's musical message
moods that created an

viola, Jessie Reagen on the drums into a true per­then moved into a catchy melody that and shouted for an encore when he the cello, Jim Roberson emotional ride through cussion instrument that transformed the stage into a scene asked if they wanted more. on the bass guitar, DBR's creative person. found a natural place in froin New York. As with each piece, the DBR & The Mission's show was noth­Wynne Bennett on the the band. DJ Scientific band members sewed their parts into a ing short of incredible and, at the end keyboards/piano, OJ along with Wynne Bennett song that was in a genre of its own. of the performance, as the band sat Scientific on the turntables, laptop and provided some modern instrumentation On top of the already moving pieces and signed autographs for the crowd­beat-boxing and Kenny Grohowski on to the orchestra. Szemela's six-string and technical proficiency that the ing audience, it was evident that The the drums. violin was also an interesting addition members brought to the band was the Mission is breaking new ground. 
After a brief hello to the crowd, the to the band. The innovative instrument energy that was brought to the stage. group then proceeded to perform the with a tuning of Szemela's design sym­"I have too much energy, too much edgy fusion of funk, rock, hip-hop and bolized the revolutionary direction the energy for that song!" Roumain Contact Adam Bonosky at classical music that has earned group is taking. exclaimed after one piece. abonosk@nd.edu 


At left, keyboardist Wynne Bennett serves as Music Director for DBR & The Mission. She is also a member of an underground urban band based in New York City. At right, violist Jon Weber, left, and violinist Earl Maneein play in the string quartet component of the musical group. Both use their talents with other bands as well. 






NSIDER 
OTHE 

Monday, September 11, 2006 BSERVER Notre Dame 41, Penn State 17 
Take two 
Irish rebound after sluggish first win; trounce JoePa and Penn State 
By DAN MURPHY 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn hit a wide open Rhema McKnight in the back of the end zone with seven seconds left in the second quarter to give the No. 4 Irish a 20-0 lead over No. 19 Penn State at halftime. The Irish never looked back. 
Quinn led the Notre Dame attack, completing 25-of-36 passes for 287 yards and three touchdowns, and the Irish added 21 points in the second half to beat the Nittany Lions 41-17. 
"I want the kids to feel good about that win." Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "We just beat a good football team soundly." 
Quinn was perfect on the crucial drive, completing all five of his passes for 58 yards and rushing twice for 11 more. 
"That was a big drive because I am a situational guy and we have been prac­ticing that situation for a long time," Weis said. 
The series began with a 17 -yard pass to senior tight end John Carlson. Quinn completed three more passes before running out of bounds on first and goal from the 9. On second down, he found McKnight cutting across the back of the er~d :.wne.,:. :· •< 
Carlson didn't score a touchdown Saturday but had a career game, setting highs in both catches (6) and yards (98). On Notre Dame's opening drive, he caught a 30-yard pass over the middle, putting the offense in range for a field goal to take an early 3-0 lead. Carl Gioia, who missed two field goals in last week's win over Georgia Tech, rebound­ed well and hit two 35-yard attempts. 
"I said, 'Okay, Carl, let's go, you're in there,"' Weis said. "I think ... the sooner you can get a player out of that rut, the sooner you can break through, usually score and the Irish took a 27-0 lead. coach Joe Paterno said. down the Nittany Lions linebackers and you can move past that." "[Zbikowski] just has a nose for tl~e Penn State could not find an offensive secondary with three-and four-wide 
Quinn's other main targets Saturday ball," Irish defensive end Victor Abiamiri rhythm until the game was well out of sets. were running back Darius Walker and said. "You can't explain it, some guys hand, only finding success with draw "[We] got tired," Paterno said. "Notre wide receiver Jeff Samardzija. just have a knack for finding the ball plays and screen passes against the Irish Dame really had been coming at a good 
Samardzija scored the first Irish and love to have the ball in their hands." first team. pace the whole bit." touchdown on a 7 -yard catch with 3:58 Penn State finally scored on its follow­"We were able to do a little something The Irish kept Penn State on the field left in the first half. Walker, who gained ing drive, going 69 yards on 10 plays in with the screen games," by converting all four just 56 yards rushing a no-huddle offense. Paterno said. "I think of their fourth down but had 7 catches for The Nittany Lions you are going to have to attempts -including a
'7 want the kids to feel
72 yards, closed the moved the ball down these days, with all the "It was a question ofwe 43-yard fake punt and
good about that win. We
Irish scoring with a 15-the field with two big zone blitzes and every­didn't do anything to a touchdown run from yard scamper on a just beat a good football plays on the series -a thing else." Thomas.
finish them off"
screen pass from 28-yard scramble by Weis said the screen The Nittany Lions
team soundly."

Quinn. Morelli and a 34-yard plays Penn State used were !'inally able to 
The Nittany Lions reception by wideout were different from Joe Paterno find some success had a chance to get on Charlie Weis Jordan Norwood. those the Irish had see.il Nittany Lions coach against Notre Dame's the board early, but a Irish coach In his second game as in the past. second-string defense high snap on what the Nittany Lions "I thought it was pret­when they scored two would have been a 32-yard field goal starter, Morelli finished 21-of-33 for 189 ty effective on their touchdowns with attempt resulted in a turnover. yards with one touchdown and an inter­part," Weis said. "Really, it was like under six minutes on the clock. 
Fumbles cost Penn State in the second ception. Norwood led Penn State throwing a screen into pressure. There's Deon Butler capped off an 18-play, 89­half. as well. receivers with 91 yards on six catches. a nuance to that, but they hit us with a yard drive with a two-yard reception 
On the second play from scrimmage in But even with the two big plays, the couple plays there. They had a couple from Morelli for the first touchdown. the third quarter, Irish linebackers Nittany Lions couldn't get the ball in the good calls on us." The second score came after a Penn Travis Thomas and Maurice Crum end zone. Place kicker Kevin Kelly fin­Despite the limited success, the Irish State timeout with 20 seconds remaining jarred the ball loose from Penn State ished the effort with a 28-yard field goal controlled the tempo of the game, hold­in the game. Daryll Clark ran it in from quarterback Anthony Morelli on an with 11:29 remaining in the third quar­ing the ball for nearly 19 minutes in the the 5-yard line to bring the score to 41-17. option play. ter. first half. 
Notre Dame safety Tom Zbikowski "It was a question of we didn't do any­That led to a long afternoon for the Contact Dan Murphy at returned the fumble 25 yards for the thing to finish them off," Penn State Penn State defense, as Notre Dame wore dmurphy6@nd.edu 

player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Brady Quinn  41  Tom Zbikowski's touchdown fumble  "We didn't have our best showing, but  
Notre Dame's offensive captain completed 25-of-36 passes for 287  Points Notre Dame had before Penn State scored its·  return Maurice Crum andTravis Thomas knocked the ball loose, and Zbikowski's  I'm happy with the outcome ofthis game."  
yards and three touchdowns. Once  first touchdown ofthe game.  touchdown crushed any Penn State  Charlie Weis  
again, he threw no interceptions.  hope ofa second-half tumatoud  Irish coach  

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 11, 2006 
report card 

A 
quarterbacks: Brady Qull:m played every bit like a Reisman Trophy winner, com­pleting nearly 70 percent of his passes 
and leading his receivers all day. He 
picked apart the Nittany lions. 

8 
running backs: Darius Walker gained only 56 yards on 20 carries but caught 
seven passes for 72 yards. Asaph 
Schwapp once again excelled in run blocking. 

A 
receivers: Rhema McKnight and Jeff Samardzija each had a touchdown in solid performances, but tight end John 
Carlson stole the show with six catches for 98 yards. 

8 
offensive line: Notre Dame gave Quinn enough time to find open receivers all afternoon. The only downsides for 
the unit were three penalties and the lack of an Irish running game. 

8 
defensive line: Notre Dame surrendered 158 yards rushing but got in Anthony Morelli's passing lanes all day. Derek 
Landri and Trevor Laws were all over the field, tracking down running backs 10 yards past the line of scrimmage. 

linebackers: Maurice Crum had 10 tack­A les -three for losses -and a forced fumble. Travis Thomas played well in pass defense and wrapped up Morelli so Crum could knock the ball loose. 
A-
defensive backs: The swarming Irish defensive backs prevented Penn State 
from establishing an air game. Morelli 
threw just eight times in the first half because of Irish double coverage. 
special teams: Carl Gioia made both

A 
field goal attempts, and the coverage 
teams were outstanding. Terrail 
Lambert was the special teams star with four tackles on kickoffs and punts. 

A 
coaching: Charlie Weis decided what Notre Dame's strengths and weaknesses were, and he made a game plan accord­
ingly. It worked nearly to perfection, a.c; 
the Irish took a 41-3 lead before Penn 
State could break the goal line. 

3.63 
overall: Notre Dame played like a top-5 team should, soundly beating a quality opponent in a big home opener. 

adding up the numbers 
Touchdowns thrown by Irish quarterback 
3 

Brady Quinn. That broke a two-game streak in which he failed to throw ascoring pass. 
15 0 
Yards Quinn threw for in the second quarter. He finished the first half with 229 yards on 27 attempts. 
Kickoff return yards for Penn State. With two touchbacks for Notre Dame, the Nittany Lions 
79

averaged 13.1 yards per return. 
18:52 Notre Dame's time of possession in the first half against Penn State. 
Turnovers Notre Dame has made in its first two 
o 

games. The Irish have fumbled once -on Tom Zbikowski's muffed punt return. 
Rushing attempts by Notre Dame freshman Munir Prince. Prince played against Georgia Tech, but the touches were his first with the Irish. 

Yards that Geoff Price's second punt of the 
6 2 

game traveled. Terrail Lambert's open-field tackle in coverage helped the punt net 56 yards. 
4 
Fourth-down attempts by Notre Dame. The Irish were successful on all four, including a fake punt. 

KELLY HIGGINSfThe Observer 

Irish running back Darius Walker looks for open space on a screen pass Saturday during Notre Dame's 41-17 throttling of Penn State. Walker had seven catches for 72 yards in the game. 

Team win came down to coaching 
There was no drama, no snow and most certainly no "white out." 
In the first meeting between Notre Dame and Penn State since the "Snow Bowl," the Irish blew out the Nittany Lions, dominat­ing every aspect of the game. 
'Tmnot unhappy with any one facet [of our play].'' Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis said, referring to the team's Ken Fowler 


offense, defense and special Sports Editor teams. "Normally 
I'm unhappy with one facet or two facets or myself. But, you know, the only one I'm unhappy with is me as usual." 
He shouldn't be. Weis out-coached Joe Paterno's staff by a mile. 
It all started with the Irish defense, playing aggressively and with a bril­liant strategy. 
Because the Penn State wide receivers have "top-end speed," Weis said, he rolled the defensive backs over to the outside to force the Nittany Lions to run the ball. They did just that. 
Penn State quarterback Anthony Morelli completed 75 percent of his passes in the first half, but he couldn't put a single point on the board because Penn State offensive coordi­nator Galen Hall called for 15 runs compared to just eight throws in the first two quarters. 
Weis was willing to let Penn State run the ball to avoid giving up big plays through the air. It worked, and the Nittany Lions played right into his hands. 
"You have to give [Notre Dame's] coaching staff credit for how many good things they did," Paterno said. "They kept us out of balance most of the game." 
Notre Dame's coaching strategy cer­tainly paid dividends. The Irish didn't give up a touchdown until they were up 41-3. The only time Penn State hurt Notre Dame's first team was on delay rushes and screen passes. But that was a strategic decision by the Irish. 
"As I've said before, you can't shut down everything," Weis said. "If you're going to shut down the wide receivers or try to hold them in check at least, then you're going to open up some opportunities for the running game, and that's what happened in the game." the Irish scheme -or hope the sec­
Irish defensive end Victor Abiamiri ondary could contain an All-American said the team was beat on the screens in Jeff Samardzija and a natural ath­and draws because they were being lete in Rhema McKnight. overly aggressive. But that wasn't "We were just trying to take advan­really a bad thing in his mind -and tage of our game plan and what we the minds of the wanted to do," Irish coaches. The Notre Dame quarterback Brady 
"When we would Quinn said. 
coaching staffsimply
make sideline Weis designed and 
dictated the game. It chose
adjustments, [Notre had ready an attack Dame defensive line the team's strengths, that could E:)xploH, , coach Jappy Oliver] accepted rts. weaknesses fl whatever defense 
would say to look out Penn State had in
and exploited Penn State 
for the screen mind. On the flip plays," Abiamiri to the nth degree. side, when Penn 
said. "But he'd remind us not to lose our aggression." 
The Notre Dame coaching staff sim­ply dictated the game. It chose the team's strengths, accepted its weak­nesses and exploited Penn State to the nth degree. 
And it wasn't just on defense. 
Notre Dame kept Penn State reeling when the Irish offense was on the field. Notre Dame switched back and forth between the no-huddle and nor­mal offense throughout the game, and Weis kept maximum protection in the backfield on most passes for Brady Quinn. 
The vaunted front-seven for Penn State was forced to blitz heavily ifit wanted to get any pressure -and risk 
State fell behind 27­0, its hurry-up offense looked so disor­ganized that Bill Diedrick could have been calling the plays. 
The difference in analytical prepara­tion between the two teams was immense. The Irish knew what they could do, knew what they wanted to do, and they did it. 
In the wake of the Notre Dame onslaught, Penn State looked con­fused, asking questions too late for the answers to matter anyway. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu 

KELLY HIGGINSfThe Observer Irish wide receiver Jeff Samardzija slides past Penn State cornerback Lydell Sargeant after one of Samardzija's six catches Saturday. 
Monday, September 11, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 

Quiet Carlson makes loud statement 
Senior has flourished in first two games as starter 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame tight end John Carlson 
walked out of the locker room after 
Saturday's 41-17 Irish victory over Penn 
State and found himself in a mob scene. 
Carlson. an unassuming senior who 
replaced Anthony Fasano in the starting 
lineup this season, had just finished the 
biggest gamfl of his career, a six-catch, 
98-yard performance in a big Irish win 
and most of the reporters in the Notre 
Dame Stadium press room wanted to talk 
to him. 
"It's always nice to catch the ball," the 
6-foot-6, 250-pound Carlson sheepishly 
told the media. 
Irish coach Charlie Weis was slightly 
less humble when talking about his new­
found star tight end, who also caught 
four passes for 35 yards, inducting a div­
ing catch for a first down, in Notre 
Dame's 14-1 0 win over Georgia Tech last 
week. 
"John made some big plays [against 
Penn State)," Weis said. "He's had back­
to-hack pretty good performances for us." 
Carlson's catches spoke for themselves, 
inducting a 29-yarder that set up a field 
goal and a 32-yarder in the waning 
KELLY HIGGINSrThe Observer

moments of the first half that set up a touchdown. The tight end said he knew Notre Dame senior tight end John Carlson hauls in a Brady Quinn pass Saturday. before the game that the Nittany Lions Carlson had career highs with six catches and 98 yards in the 41-17 Irish win. would focus on Irish receivers Jeff Samardzija and Rhema McKnight, leaving Anthony's shoes this year," Quinn said. the end zone for a chance at his second in him free. "Not to take anything away from the second quarter on Saturday, but "We knew that the middle would be Anthony, but John's an extremely athletic Quinn's pass sailed over his head. open this week, and we just exploited guy." "It happens," Carlson said of the play. "I that," he said. "When you look at our Weis said Carlson isn't as "polished" as miss blocks and drop passes. We all make team, we have Rhema Fasano, but is lethal mistakes." and Samardzija. I nonetheless. While Carlson's answers Saturday were would tend to cover "When you look at our "[Carlson] is not as mild-mannered, Weis said the senior's those guys more than team, we have Rhema polished as Anthony at desire to succeed can sometimes trip his me." this point because temper. 
.[McKnight] and [Jeffl
Las't1'seaso·n, 'Carlson Anthony could do ''I'd like you to know, he does have a caught seven passes for Samardzija. I would tend everything pretty well," temper, despite the image he'd like for 56 yards and a touch­to cover those guys more Weis said. "But John's a you to see," Weis said Sunday. "It might down. This season, he big target now. He's a be [only] one word, but when he drops a
than me." 

has already surpassed big muchacho running ball or misses a block or makes a mis­
those numbers in just down that field." take, his blood pressure does rise. He's 
two games. John Carlson Carlson himself not as calm and even-tempered as you 
Irish quarterback Irish tight end admitted he has things may think." 
Brady Quinn said to work on. That fire in Carlson has helped him 
Carlson is filling the "I didn't feel like I flourish since he assumed the starting 
safety-valve role that Fasano provided the blocked too well [against Penn State], so I role. 
last few seasons while adding a speed have to work on that," he said. 
dimension that Fasano didn't have. Carlson got his frrst career touchdown Contact Chris Khorey at 
"John's done a great job of filling last year against Purdue and was open in ckhorey@nd.edu 

Weis says Schwapp injury not serious 
Sophomore fullback limped off the field, coach thinks leg 'just locked up on him' 
Weis said. "You don't put a back Evan Sharpley took his coach Knute Rockne crashed By CHRIS KHOREY 
guy back in the game there. first career snaps Saturday. on his family's farm in 1931, Associate Sports Editor 
Let's worry about having him Sharpley played one series, has tended to the crash site 
ready for Michigan." handing off twice to fresh­for 75 years, giving tours and 
Notre Dame coach Charlie Senior Ashley McConnell man Munir Prince -his first keeping a collection of Weis said an injury to sopho­replaced Schwapp. career carries -and rushing Rockne memorabilia. more fullback Asaph McConnell rushed for two for a 2-yard gain on his own. Schwapp in the third quarter yards on his only carry. + Towels for Hannah was not serious. + Shutout streak Fans entering Notre Dame 
Schwapp crumpled to the + Grimes limited in duty Penn State kicker Kevin Stadium on Saturday ground after a run by Darius Sophomore wide receiver Kelly's field goal with 11:29 received green towels to Walker was stopped for a 6-David Grimes saw only limit­left in the third quarter was wave. yard loss. He lay on the turf ed action and did not fill his the first points scored on The towels, which read "Go for more than a minute usual role of kickoff returner Notre Dame's defense in Irish! 9-3 is not good before limping off the field Saturday due to an injury. more than 68 minutes. enough," also included the with the help of two Irish Weis said he moved Grimes The last points scored on logo of Hannah and Friends, trainers. The · injury behind senior Chase the Irish before that were a Weis' charity for develop­appeared to be to Schwapp's Anastasio on the depth chart field goal by Georgia Tech in mentally disabled children. leg. for precautionary reasons. the second quarter of Notre 
"It just locked up on him," "[Grimes] was a little Dame's 14-10 win Sept. 2. +Coin toss Weis said. "The same thing banged up this week and I Penn State won the coin happened in practice the didn't use him because I did­+ Keeper of site honored toss and elected to defer its other day." n't think I had to," Weis said. Notre Dame Monogram choice to the second half. 
He said Schwapp was "We were flip-flopping him Club Executive Director Jim Notre Dame received the ready to return later in the and Chase at practice this Fraleigh awarded Easter kickoff and defended the game but with the game in week because he was banged Heathman, of Bazaar, Kan., south goal to start the game. hand, Weis didn't see the up. I figured it would be bet­with an honorary monogram The Irish have received the point of' risking further ter off just to hold off on at Friday's pep rally at Notre opening kickoff in both of injury. him." Dame Stadium. their games this season. 
"I think you have to be Heathman, who was 13­smart when you're a coach if + Seeing action years-old when a plane car­Contact Chris Khorey at you're in that situation," Irish sophomore quarter-rying former Irish head ckhorey@nd.edu 
•


scoring suiDIDary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total Notre Dame 3 17 14 7 41 Penn State 0 0 3 14 17 
First quarter 
Notre Dame 3, Penn State 0 
Carl Gioia 35-yard field goal with 9:40 remaining Drive: 12 plays, 63 yards, 5:20 elapsed 
Second quarter Notre Dame 6, Penn State 0 
Gioia 35-yard field goal with 10:42 remaining Drive: 13 plays, 37 yards, 4:35 elapsed 
Notre Dame 13, Penn State 0 
Jeff Samardzija 7-yard pass from Brady Quinn with 3:58 remaining (Gioia kick) Drive: 9 plays, 75 yards, 4:11 elapsed 
Notre Dame 20, Penn State 10 
Rhema McKnight9-yard pass from Quinn with 
0:07 remaining (Gioia kick) Drive: 7 plays, 69 yards, 1:17 elapsed 
Third quarter Notre Dame 27, Penn State 0 
Tom Zbikowski 25-yard fumble recovery with 
13:58 remaining (Gioia kick) 
Notre Dame 27, Penn State 3 
Kevin Kelly 28-yard field goal with 11:29 remaining Drive: 10 plays, 69 yards, 2:29 elapsed 
Notre Dame 34, Penn State 3 
Travis Thomas 1-yard run with 4:33 remaining (Gioia kick) Drive: 8 plays, 55 yards, 2:36 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Notre Dame 41, Penn State 3 
Darius Walker 15-yard pass from Quinn with 
12:07 remaining (Gioia kick) Drive: 10 plays, 46 yards, 5:05 elapsed 
Notre Dame 41, Penn State 10 
Deon Butler 2-yard pass from Anthony Morelli with 5:51 remaining (Kelly kick) Drive: 18 plays, 89 yards, 6:16 elapsed 
Notre Dame 41, Penn State 17 
Daryll Clark 5-yard run with 0:20 remaining (Kelly kick) Drive: 13 plays, 83 yards, 3:20 elapsed 
-

statistics 
total yards rushing yards 


return yards 

-
33-158  rushes-yards  36-110  
24-41-1  comp-att-int  25-36-0  
2-70  punts-yards  3-132  
3-2  fumbles-lost  1-0  
4-25 25  penalties-yards first downs  6-64 22  

passing 

Quinn 25-36-0 Morelli 21-33-1 
rushing 

Walker  20-56  Hunt  12-74  
Thomas, T.  3-44  Kinlaw  7-37  
Quinn  6-24  Clark  4-28  
Schwapp  1-2  Wallace  1-17  
receiving  

Walker  7-72  Norwood  6-91  
Carlson  6-98  Perretta  4-46  
Samardzija  6-56  Hunt  3-26  
McKnight  5-59  Williams  3-12  
Freeman  1-2  Bell  2-18  

punt returns 

Zbikowski 2-4 Williams 
1-6 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 11, 2006 




Leaving no doubt 
Notre Dame settled for field goals on its first two scoring 
drives, but those were the only opportunities the Irish missed all game. Up 13-0 with 1:30 left in the half, Notre Dame went 69 yards in 1:17 to take a 20-0 lead into the break. And the Irish 
-didn't stop there. They found the end zone three times in the sec­ond half, including a 25-yard fumble return by Tom Zbikowski. Charlie Weis sealed the deal with a fake punt that Travis Thomas ran 43 yards to the Penn State 5 and led to another score. The Irish jumped to No. 2 in the Associated Press Top 25 and No. 3 in the coaches' poll. 


Photos by ALLISON AMBROSE, KELLY HIGGINS and CLEMENT SUHENDRA!The Observer 
Top left, Irish wide receiver Rhema McKnight celebrates after Notre Dame's 41-17 victory over Penn State Saturday. Top right, Irish linebacker Anthony Vernaglia and lineman Pat Kuntz stuff Nittany Lions tailback Rodney Kinlaw. Center, Notre Dame cornerback Mike Richardson chases down Penn State tailback Tony Hunt. Bottom right, Irish receiver Jeff Samardzija celebrates after his touchdown reception. Bottom left, Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn runs right, looking for an open receiver. 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Monday, September 11, 2006 
page 11 
DVD REVIEW 
Duckie-love dominates Hughes' teen gem 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
Original'Fantasia' remains timeless classic 
Photo courtesy of laughingplace.com Mickey Mouse controls enchanted broomsticks in the animated film's most famous piece. While unappreciated at first, "Fantasia" is now remembered as Walt Disney's masterpiece. 
ofthe ballet performed by hippos, elephants and crocodiles. 
Moussorgsky's "Night on Bald Mountain" is coupled with Franz Schubert's "Ave Maria" as a striking juxtaposition of good and evil to close the film. The mythical, Slavic creature, the Chernabog, makes an appearance as a representation of the devil, raising the souls of the dead from graves. He is vanquished by the sound of a church bell at the beginning of the "Ave Maria" when haloed people proceed to church. 
While these scenes are memorable in their own right, the highlight of the film, and indeed one of the most unforgettable moments in all of cinema, occurs in Paul Dukas' "The Sorcerer's Apprentice." Here, a playful Mickey Mouse dons the hat of a magician and tries to control broomsticks 
music with seamless 

animation and has made the image of Mickey Mouse wearing a red robe and blue sorcerer's hat known worldwide in the form of toys, television and theme parks. 
Walt Disney saw "Fantasia" as an oppor­tunity where he could experiment with unique and often ground-breaking anima­tion techniques. His love for classical music prompted him to pursue what began as a pet project even though most people believed he was doomed to failure. The "Fantasia" project cost nearly $2 million, 
.. 
By CASSIE BELEK Assistant Scene Editor 
It's the movie that sparked a two-decade long debate: Blane or Duckie? "Pretty in Pink: Everything's Duckie Edition" does little to calm the controversy of its ending, but rather reminds us of Molly Ringwald's appeal. John Hughes' brilliance and Duckie's shoes. 
"Pretty in Pink." written by John Hughes and starring Molly Ringwald, explores the cross-class romance between Andie (Ringwald), a girl literally from the wrong side of the tracks, and Blane (Andrew McCarthy), a "richie" under pressure from his upper-class friends to ditch his prom date and new love. Caught in the middle is Duckie (Jon Cryer), Andie's best friend with an unrequited love for the quirky red-head. 
The movie is the last of a trio of Hughes movies starring Ringwald. Hughes' gift for capturing the angst and plight of the '80s teen is only further advanced by the casting of the actress, the ultimate girl next door. Nthough Howard Deutch directs the movie, Hughes' guidance can be seen in every aspect, from the music to the settings to 

By SEAN SWEANY Assistant Scene Editor 
Few films can boast of featuring dancing mushrooms, mousy magicians, hippopota­mus ballerinas and mythical monsters yet still be considered classic pieces of cinema. Walt Disney's masterpiece film and iconic cinema experience "Fantasia," which plays in the Browning Cinema this weekend as part of the PAC Classic 100, is one of these films. 
This 1940 animated film is an anthology of eight animated segments set to classical music. It begins with Bach's "Tocata and Fugue in D Minor," which accompanies a scene where impressionistic depictions of musical instruments move in time with 
the music and blur 
to do his work, but into colors that loses control in what eventually come has become an icon­together to form a ic scene in popular sunset. culture. "The 
As the sunset Sorcerer's completes, conduc-When: Sunday, Sept. 17, 4:00p.m. Apprentice" com­tor Leopold Where: The Browning Cinema, DPAC bines wonderful 
Stokowski comes into focus and intro­duces himself as the host of the picture and conductor for the Philadelphia Orchestra, the group set to perform each piece. Stokowski, conducts superbly here and adds the perfect combination of seriousness and playfulness to "Fantasia." 
Other memorable pieces of the film include Tchaikovsky's "The Nutcracker Suite," a beautifully animated segment where fairies and mushrooms dance in time with the suite. Amilcare Ponchielli's "Dance of the Hours is fondly remembered because Ringwald. 
After 20 years, fans still argue over whom Andie should have chosen. The original end­ing featured Andie choosing Duckie, proving that the solidarity between friends cannot be broken by anyone. But early screenings were criticized and booed because Andie did not end up with the man she truly wanted. After a re-shoot, Blane was redeemed and won Andie's heart. 
While heartbreaking to Duckie fans, the ending now is appropriate because it shows that love can cross class barriers, despite peer pressure. The only possible ending is for Andie to end up with the soulful rich guy who looks pa'it her lower-class upbringing. Throughout "Pretty in Pink," Andie clearly displays that her romantic feelings for Blane overshadow any for Duckie. The Duckman deserves to be with someone who loves him back and appreciates his electrifying per­formance of"Try a little Tenderness." 
Special features on the new DVD include five new featurettes, director's commentary and an exploration of the Blane and Duckie debate. Disappointingly, the original ending is never shown in its entirety. 
In fact, there's very little in the DVD to 
imply that it deserves the "Everything's Duckie Edition" title. Although it fea­tures several inter­views with Cryer ("Two and a Half Men"), it contains the same amount of interviews with Brat Packers Ringwald and McCarthy. Just like in the movie, Duckie fails to get what he deserves. 
courtesy holllvwoodteenmo.vi"< com 

Duckie (Cryer), right, loses Andie (Ringwald), middle, to Blane (McCarthy) in 
"Pretty in Pink," sparking never-ending debates over the ending of the movie. 
However, the main attraction is the movie a sixteenth birthday, a search for a prom 
itself. Interestingly enough, in one featurette date and a Saturday detention. Any modem 
Ringwald expresses interest in a sequel. sequels to his movies would violate the teen 
However, the draw to the movie doesn't genre and all that his movies accomplished 
stem from fascination with the character of for teenagers. "Pretty in Pink: Everything's 
Andie. Few people probably care where Duckie Edition" display's Hughes' abilities 
Andie and Blane are now (more would care and gives us a peek at a generation's feelings 
where Duckie is). The attraction to John and experiences. _ 
Hughes movies comes from his ability to put We see that Blane the "richie" may get the '80s teen culture on screen for everyone to girl now, but Duckie the "zoid" has her 
observe. He takes teens seriously and so do friendship for life. And that's how Duckie ­
his movies. wins. The truth is that high school sucks some­times. Hughes is able to convey this through Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 

more than live action films of the day, and featured the first use of stereophonic sound, which has since become standard in film presentation. 
Walt Disney originally intended to pro­duce new versions of "Fantasia" every sev­eral·years to include new pieces of music and animation. However, a lack of critical and commercial success in the film's first several years of release made this a finan­cial impossibility. The movie developed a strong cult following and was in a sense "rediscovered" in the 1970s and 1980s and heralded as a classic. 
At the turn of the new millennium, "Fantasia 2000" was released as an attempt to carry on Walt's dream of updat­ing the "Fantasia" series. This new version, however, lacked the grandeur of the first and suffered because it missed the vision of Walt Disney's creative genius. 
In spite of the failing at a second go­around, the first "Fantasia" film will always remain as a testament to Disney's brilliance and ability to create memorable, lasting moments in cinema. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
NFL 
Jaguars -win in T.O.'s debut, Jets hang on over Titans 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 11, 2006 

Jacksonville upends the Cowboys 24-17  Bears 26, Packers 0 The Chicago Bears barely let Brett Favre touch the ball Sunday, shutting out the throe­ 
Associated Press  time MVP for the first time in  
his career in a victory over tho  
JACKSONVILLE -Terrell  Green Bay Packers.  
Owens made his presence felt  Quarterback Hex Grossman  
early and late. As in, too early  found wide receiver Bernard  
to hurt the Jaguars and too late  Berrian for a 49-yard touch­ 
to help the Cowboys.  down pass on the opening drive.  
Byron Leftwich threw a  It would be the Bears' only  
touchdown pass and ran for a  offensive touchdown of the day,  
score, and Fred Taylor had 115  but Chicago continued to move  
combined yards to help  the ball well enough to keep the  
Jacksonville beat the Cowboys  game largely out of Favre's  
on Sunday, spoiling Owens'  hands.  
much-anticipated debut with  And when the Packers did  
Dallas.  have the ball. they stuck to the  
Owens finished with six  running game.  
receptions for 80 yards and a  Favre, who deliberated for  
touchdown, but the Jaguars  several months before deciding  
held him without a catch  to return to the Packers after a  
through much of the second  4-12 season, threw only five  
half. Still, Owens keyed all three  passes in the first half ­com­ 
of Dallas' scoring drives, includ­ pleting all five for only 70  
ing a 21-yard TO reception with  yards.  
1:54 to play that cut the lead  The Bears had 236 yards of  
the 24-17.  total offense in the first half.  
Jacksonville recovered the  compared to only 103 for the  
onside kick and was forced to  Packers.  
punt. The Cowboys got the ball  Favre, back for his 16th sea­ 
back with 51 seconds to play,  son, and the Packers opened up AP  
but Drew Bledsoe's third-down  the offense in the second half, Jacksonville quarterback Byron Leftwich, center, crosses the goal line for a touchdown against  
pass was intercepted by line­ the Dallas Cowboys Sunday. The Jaguars defeated the Cowboys 24-17.but Favre couldn't get the ball  
backer Mike Peterson.  in the end zone and threw  
It was Bledsoe's third inter­ interceptions to Charles Tillman  The days of playing in a most­ Jets 23, Titans 16  until Travis Henry tied the  
ception of the game and gave  and Danieal Manning in the  ly empty, sun-scorched college  Chad Pennington not only has  game, rushing for two fourth­ 
the Jaguars their ninth open­ fourth quarter.  stadium are over. Fans came to  returned strong after a second  quarter touchdowns within five  
ing-day win in 12 seasons.  Favre, who threw a career­ the team's new palace in the  shoulder surgery in as many  minutes of each other. His 1­ 
It also may have silenced crit­ worst 29 interceptions last sea­ western suburbs of Phoenix  years, he might be even better  yarder with 5:58 left came one  
ics who said the Jags made the  son, finished the game 15-of-29  hours before the game, setting  than 2002.  play after Pennington was  
playoffs last season only  for 170 yards.  up tents for tailgate parties in a  All Pennington did that year  sacked and fumbled.  
- because of a weak schedule and that they would struggle to  Cardinals 34, 49ers 27  new grassy park outside. Beneath the stadium's  was lead the NFL in passer rat­ing.  Pennington needed seven plays to take back the lead  
replace retired receiver Jimmy  After 19 seasons in Arizona,  translucent roof, they filled the  Pennington threw for 319  after Justin Miller's 41-yard  
Smith.  the Cardinals finally have their  place with the kind of noise this  yards and two touchdowns to  kickoff return, going ahead on  
Jacksonville hardly missed  own home ­and maybe even a  long-suffering franchise seldom  lead the New York Jets to a  a 12-yard touchdown pass to  
the five-time Pro Bowler.  home-field advantage.  heard.  victory over the Tennessee  Chris Baker with 2:10 left in  
Matt Jones caught five passes  Kurt Warner completed 23 of  Arizona coach Dennis Green  Titans on Sunday after having  helping make coch Eric  
for 71 yards, including four in a  37 passes for 301 yards and  gave the game ball to owner Bill  to beat out three quarterbacks  Mangini a winner in his head  
row on the team's go-ahead  three scores, the Cardinals  Bidwill.  in preseason to reclaim his  coaching debut.  
touchdown drive in the fourth  turned two first-quarter San  "I told him this was the first of  starting job.  "The mechanics were excel­ 
quarter. Reggie Williams had  Francisco turnovers into touch­ many wins in this building,"  "Chad has done a great job in  lent, the tempo was excellent,  
six receptions for 4 7 yards, and  downs, and Arizona held on to  Green said.  preparing himself and getting  and I'm proud that he was  
Ernest Wilford caught three  beat the 49ers on Sunday.  The Cardinals jumped to a 21­ himself back to the point of  poised," Mangini said.  
passes for 58 yards.  Playing in front of a sellout  7 lead, scoring three touch­ being our starting quarter­ Tennessee had one last  
Taylor was even better. The  crowd of 63,407 in their $455  downs in the first quarter for  back," Jets receiver  chance and drove to the Jets 8.  
30-year-old, oft-injured Taylor  million, air conditioned new sta­ the first time in 31 years -then  Laveranues Coles said. ''I'm  But Kerry Collins missed tight  
ran 21 times for 74 yards,  dium, the Cardinals opened a  withstood a last-minute San  just happy that he now has a  end Bo Scaife while trying to  
including a 5-yard score with  season at home for the first time  Francisco rally for their first  game under his belt and  reach David Givens in the end  
3:13 remaining. He also caught  since the franchise moved to  season-opening win since 1999  showed he's back."  zone on fourth-and-6 with 35  
six passes for 41 yards.  Arizona in 1988.  and only the third since '88.  The Titans' had trailed 16-0  seconds to go.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds . 
....  Rent a home ND football week- Rooms for ND home games.  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK- Again: LOST BOOKBAG! GREEN  
WANTED  ends. 574-784-8638.  574-273-5035.  2­ TICKETS  ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232­2378.  AND BLACK L.L. BEAN. Please contact chine@nd.edu if  
BLUE & GOLD HOMES,  6 BDRM HOMES & ROOMS  you know of its  
ND family needs sitter for 2-year­ off-campus homes & weekend  NEAR CAMPUS AVAIL FOR  TOP$ PAID FOR ND FOOTBALL  whereabouts.  
old girl for PT eve & wknd hours. 3  rentals. Bluegoldrentals.com  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS &  WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251­ TKTS 289-9280  
references required, experience  SCHOOL YEAR.  1570  Have a bookbag that's not yours? Is  
with kids a plus. Pay negotiable.  NOW LEASING FOR 2007-2008  57 4-329-0308.  Travel with STS to this years top 10  it black and green? Is it from L.L.  
Contact: hopkinskarl@ hotmail.com  STADIUM CLUB CONDOMINIUMS  www.geocities.com  FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232­ Spring Break destinations! Best  Bean?  
Spacious 2bdrm 2ba.  gillisrealty@sbcglobal.net  0964  deals guaranteed! Highest rep com- Contact chine@nd.edu if the previ­ 
Washer/Dryer. Call Susan Miller at  missions. Visit www.ststravel.com  ous message applies  
243-7530.  Apt. for home games. 1.5 mi to ND.  Need ND tix & parking pass all  or call1-800-648-4849. Great group  to you.  
FoR SALE  57 4-386-6014.  home games.574-276-8507.  discounts.  
Rental homes 3-6 bdrms. Close to  If you have something you want to  
ND. Call Gary 574-993-2208.  11 bdrm house available for 2007­ A BUSINESSMAN PAYING TOP$$  run in the Classifieds, please let us  
Condo for sale 2 bdrm twnhse call  Weekend rental: 3 BR Home, walk  2008. Just renovated, 2 kitchens, 5.5  FOR SEASON TIX OR INDIVID­UAL GAMES. CALL MARK 574­ PERSONAL  know It's a shame that valuable newspaper space is being wasted  
269-445-2765  to stadium, Terrace Ln. 269-930­ baths. large common areas and  277-1659.  like this.  
8038. swmient@qtm.net  backyard.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
Investment homes for sale near  Contact MacSwain@ gmail.com  Desperate for Tickets. Need tickets  not go it alone. If you or someone  Boycott Reekers. Incompetence  
ND. 866-521-8989.  New lodging for ND home games. 2  to the NO/Purdue game for family.  you love needs confidential support  
bdrm apt. above Mishawaka bar.  One bdrm cottage on Lake Mich.  Call Blaine & leave message at  or assistance, please call Sr. Sue  Great job in your game yesterday  
523 Howard St. 4 blocks off cam- Dates avail. Call360-8165.  30 miles fr SB.  219-324-3241. Local pickup  Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more  Matt! From Mom, Dad, Sissy,  
pus. 2 BDRM Home. 1000 sq. ft.  www.Eastofedenatunionpier.com.  information, see our bi-weekly ad in  Nenna, and Chris .  
basement/garage. Everything new.  Weekend lodging for ND home  $350 wkend.  AN ACTUAL ABOVE-AVERAGE  The Observer.  
~65,900. 574-257-9683.  games. 2 nice rooms wlhouse privi­ 513-697-7766.  ABIDING FAN DESPERATELY  Hey Thomson, smile once in a  
leges.  NEEDS FOOTBALL TIX.  www.ndgamedayroom.com  while. Life isn't all that bad.  
FoR RENT  20 mins. from stadium. Call 269­699-7447.  Need a place like home to stay for ND football Weekends?  ANY OR ALL GAMES. LOCAL  LOST BOOKBAG! GREEN AND  Packy is crappy  
Bed& Breakfast  CALL 654-0169.  BLACK. L.L. BEAN. Please con- 
House for Rent PSU/UM weekends.  4 Bedroom/3Bath home,  tact chine@nd.edu if you have it  One more time. LOST BOOKBAG!  
2-3-4 bdrms. Share w/FRIENDS.  25 min.away -2 blcks frm Lake  newly built available for rent!  WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS.  GREEN AND BLACK. L.L. BEAN  
50% off dep. if rented by 1 0/1 . 255­ Mich.Sieeps 11. Kit.,2 bath,grill. Call  $850.00 per night.  TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY  Why do fire alarms go off when  DESINGNI Contact chine@nd.edu  
7000.  708-525-4293.  Call286-6715 or 299-0745.  WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726.  there's no fire?  if you know where it is.  





OUND THE NATION 
Monday, September 11, 2006 CoMPIUD FROM THE OBSERVER's wrRE SERVICES page 13 
Associated Press Poll Top25 

team  record  previous  
1  Ohio State  2-0  1  
2  NOTRE DAME  2·0  4  
3  Auburn  2-0  4  
4  usc  1·0  3  
5  West Virginia  2-0  6  
6  LSU  2-0  8  
7  Florida  2-0  7  
8  Texas  1-1  2  
9  Florida State  2-0  9  
10  Georgia  2-0  12  
11  Michigan  2-0  10  
12  louisville  2-0  13  
13  Tennessee  2-0  11  
14  Virginia Tech  2-0  16  
15  Oklahoma  2-0  15  
16  Iowa  2-0  14  
17  Miami (Fla.)  1-1  17  
18  Oregon  2-0  20  
19  Nebraska  2-0  21  
20  TCU  2-0  23  
21  California  1-1  22  
22  Arizona State  2-0  25  
23  Boston College  2-0  NR  
24  Texas Tech  2-0  24  
25  Penn State  1-1  19  

USA Today/Coaches Poll Top25 
team points previous 

1 Ohio State 1571 1 2 usc 1471 3 3 NOTRE DAME 1391 5 4 Auburn 1369 4 5 West Virginia 1293 5 6 Florida 1177 7 1 LSU 1159 8 8 Texas .11.07 2 9 Georgia 997 11 10 Florida State 977 9 11 Oklahoma 953 10 12 LouisvUie 905 12 13 Michigan 820 .. 13 14 Virginia Tech 770 14 15 Miami (Fla.) 622 16 16 Iowa 603 15 17 Tennesue 600 17 18 Oregon 529 20 19 Nebraska 431 21 20 TCU 333 22 21 California 248 23 22 Texas Tech 231 24 23 Arizona State 159 NR 24 Alabama 150 25 25 Boston College 146 NR 
NASCAR Nextel Cup Points Standings 
Driver Points 

1 Matt Kenseth 3638 2 Jimmie Johnson 3629 3 Kevin Harvick 3296 4 Jeff Gordon 3251 5 Kyle Busch 3244 
6 . Dale Earnhardt Jr. 3225 7 Denny Hamlin 3225 8 Tony Stewart 3194 9 Mark Martin 3181 10 Jeff Burton 3179 
around the dial 
NFL Minnesota at Washington, 7 p.m., ESPN San Diego at Oakland, 10:15 p.m, ESPN 
MLB 
Chicago Cubs at Atlanta, 
7:05 p.m., WGN 

TENNIS 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -There might be one athlete in the world who knows exactly how Roger Federer feels as he domi­nates· his peers and gob­bles up Grand Slams, so it was fitting that Tiger Woods was sitting in his guest box Sunday for the 
U.S. Open final. 
Federer met Woods for the first time beforehand, then apparently set out to impress. the golfer, con­trolling every facet of play in a 6-2, 4-6, 7-5, 6-1 vic­tory over Andy Roddick for. a third major champi­onship this year and ninth of his career. 
"We've been trying to meet on several occasions. He promised me to come if I was in the finals," Federer said. ''I'm happy he came. Thanks, Tiger." 
The Swiss superstar is the first man since Ivan Lend! in 1985-87 to win three consecutive U.S. Open titles _ and the only man in tennis history to win Wimbledon and the 
U.S. Open back-to-back three years in a row. 
And he did it in such impressive fashion, out­acing the big-serving Roddick 17-7, compiling a 69-33 edge in winners, and making only 19 unforced errors. Federer claimed eight of the last 
IN BRIEF 
Chiefs quarterback Green 
suffers severe concussion 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -As Trent Green lay motionless on the turf at Arrowhead Stadium, more than 77,000 fans sat motionless in their seats. 
His feet were not moving, nor were his hands. It was tough to tell if the popular quarterback, who for five years had been so indestructible, was even breathing. 
From the moment Cincinnati's Robert Geathers unleashed a brutal hit until word came that the quarterback had regained consciousness, little was said at the Bengals-Chiefs game Sunday. 
"You just start praying," backup quarterback Damon Huard said. "You think about him, his family and his health. It was a very scary moment for both players and fans." 
Chiefs General Manager Carl Peterson said Green had "pretty severe head trauma." but regained all his senses and feeling in his arms and legs. 
nine games against Roddick, who won the 2003 U.S. Open but now is 1-11 against the man he once was supposed to rival for supremacy in this sport. 
"Roger is at the top, and he's the only person at the top, regardless of how much people want to make rivalry comparisons and this, that and the other," Roddick said. "He's the best player in the game. There's no question in my mind or if you ask any player about that." 
The No. 1-ranked Federer went 27-1 at this year's Grand Slam tourna­ments, the only setback coming against Rafael Nadal in the French Open final. Federer moved alone into sixth place for total major titles behind Pete Sampras' record 14. 
"The way Roger plays the game is phenomenal," Navratilova said Sunday, when she was inducted into the U.S. Open's Court of Champions, "but we need more players like him.... He's just a genius with the racket." 
That's the sort of thing people have been saying about Woods for years, 

-
and Federer spoke last week about wanting to get to know his counterpart. It happened Sunday, thanks to their shared management agency. 

Furyk comes from behind to 
take Canadian Open 
ANCASTER, Ontario -Canadian Open champion Jim Furyk guaran" teed the national championship will have at least one top non-Canadian player next year despite being crammed between the last two majors and another top event. 
''I'll be honest, I _probably wouldn't play if I hadn't won. I feel it's a point of honor," Furyk said Sunday after his comeback victory on the Hamilton Golf and Country Club course. "I feel I should be here and I'll come back to play." 
With the tournament shifting to late July next year to open September spots for the tour's new FedEx Cup playoffs, the event at Angus Glen in Markham will be played the week after the British Open, with the World Golf Championships-Bridges tone Invitational and PGA Championship the following two weeks. 
Hornish Jr. finishes third,
wins IRL Championship 
JOLIET, Ill. -Dan Wheldon won the race. Sam Hornish Jr. claimed his third IRL series championship. 
Wheldon beat Target Chip Ganassi teammate Scott Dixon by 0.1897 seconds to win the PEAK Antifreeze Indy 300 at Chicagoland Speedway on Sunday, while Harnish was 0.2323 seconds behind. But in the end. Hornish celebrated the cham­pionship. 
Harnish and Wheldon finished the season with 475 points, but Harnish had four victories -two more than Wheldon. And he did enough Sunday to give Marlboro Team Penske owner Roger Penske his flrst championship and claim a $1 mil­lion bonus. 
The day began with Penske driver Helio Castroneves holding a one­point lead over Hornish with 431 points, with Wheldon and Dixon 19 and 21 points back. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Monday September 11, 2006 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish start season with w-in as tnen take 1st at Valparaiso 

-
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame started the sea­son off right Friday as the men's team won the Crusader Invitational at Valparaiso while the women's team finished a strong second. 
The Irish repeated their strong performance from last season with the win, especially because Notre Dame boasted the third best runner -Kevin McFadden -and no Irish run­ner finished outside the top 12. Notre Dame also ran one fresh­man and four sophomores, showing that the graduation or their top players would not hamper their efforts as much as it could have. 
"We've won the last couple of years [at Valparaiso] so definite­ly anything less than thfl win would have been disappointing," freshman Matt Tieuli said. 
The new, young runners this season were crucial to the team's success as they ran coach Joe Piane's game plan or 
CLASSIC ROCK PARODIES 
The Electric Amish 
as heard on rhe ·· Boh & To1n ·· shovv. 

~ ~ 
i 


Saturday, September 16 
ShoW"time 7:00PM 
Tickets $14, $16, $18 

-ALSO APPEARING-Voted "Best Blues Baud" by nrhatzup readers.lor 6 years i11 a row! 
Pop ..,.,., Ae&h RE,TIE'V 
Blues -Rock -(Jriginals FEA...l'URING:
ELCC> ''J.fu:l 3~ ,. 
PERFORMJN<; ARTS CENTER 410 S. l'\1AIN ST., ELKHART, IN 
574-293-4469 • 800-294-8223 • www.elcotheatre.com 
NOTRE DAME FORUM© 
Dr. Paul Farmer International public health activist 
Jeffrey Sachs Author The End a_( Poverty: Ecmwmic Possibilitiesfor Our Time 
Dr. Miriam Opwonya Director, Ugandan AIDS clinic 
Dr. David Gaus '84 Keri Oxley '04 Michael Dewan '07 Ailis Tweed-Kent '07 
A1oderated by Gwen ljlll, ofThe NewsHour with Jim Lehrer 


Joyce Center 
Classes will be canceled between 1:00 and 3:30 p.m. All faculty, staff and students are encouraged to attend. 

Visit: forum.nd.edu 
running in a paek perfectly. The only slide in running thH plan was the speed goal Piane set ­live minutes per mile -but the lapse in time was oll"set by suc­eess in running style. 
"The first mile was very slow and way ofl" our goal so our plan was prp,tty much shot there," Tieuli said. "It was nice to be able to run with a pack likn that. It was something I nnv1)r had in high school." 
Freshman Matt Tinuli, sopho­more John Daly, Jr., sophomore Dan Kuzma, sophomore Kevin Veselik and sophomore Chris Hodriguez finished consecutively in places six through 10, while junior David Bradloy rounded out the Irish contingent in 12th plaee, only 15 seconds behind Hodriguez. 
Despite the win, the Irish were still somewhat frustrated by their performance, which they hoped would have lwnn even better than it was. 
"Our times still we ron 't what we wanted them to be so we still can run a little bit raster," Tieuli said. "But we came in and ran in a nice pack and took the win, which is definitely something to build on." 
Bunning in a pack was defi­nitely successful for Notre Dame as a team, however, as the latter six runners were able to keep each other motivated to finish the race strong, helping them open the season with a win. 
"We stayed in a very niee pack, and one or our sopho­mores John Daly kept us togl)th­er and Dan Bradlfly, our junior, kept good pace throughout the race too," Tieuli said. 
One delinite positive to come out of the Crusader Invitational for the Irish Men's team was to show the new runners' ability to perform well against college runners. This was especially important for Tieuli since it was his first race in college, which runs a kilometer longer than high school races. 
"The last kilometer of the raee was the kilometer that I moved up so it was nice to know that I had a little bit or extra energy there. It was nice to be with the pack and I just hope to improve on that and get a little bit stronger in the next couple of races which are actually going to be a longer distance." 
The women's team also fin­ished strong in second place, but that still was not good enough for the Irish, who went into Valparaiso hoping to come out with the win. 
Irish runner Julie Opet was the team leader, finishing third in the women's race, while sophomore Heidi Roeha and freshman Beth Tacl eame in sixth and seventh, respe.ctively. 
The next four Irish runners finished spread throughout the lield, finishing 12th, 22ncl, 23rd. and 25th. 
"!Coach Tim Connelly said! we should show a lot more confi­dence, stick together as a team. push eaeh other during the race," Bocha said. "Basically he said we just need more team­work." 
Notre Dame continues their season next weekend at home in 
the  National  Catholic  
Championship  at  Burke  
Memorial Golf Course.  

Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 

Monday, September 11, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles turn in solid perfor111ance at Aquinas Invitational 
By BECKI DORNER SportS Writer 
Saint Mary's took fifth place at the Aquinas College Invitational Friday afternoon at Comstock River Park -and that's just fine for Belles coach Jackie Bauters. 
Bauters was extremely proud of her team after a week of training that lacked any taper­ing. 
"The team had a great training week last week, and they're already looking stronger than this point last year, which is very encouraging," Bauters said. 
The Belles certainly had a lot of competition from the other squads. Division II Grand Valley State took the crown by claiming the best possible score of 15 with each of the top five individual finishers and were followed by Aquinas, Cornerstone, St. Xavier and Saint Mary's, respectively. Rounding out the teams were Sienna Heights, Lansing Community College and Olivet, a fellow MIAA conference member. 
"The Aquinas course was very flat and relatively fast," Saint Mary' captain Katie O'Brien said. 
"One big challenge however, was competing against big teams like Grand Valley. The large teams pushed the pace from the begin­ning, forcing us to adjust our original race strategy." Fellow captain Meaghan Herbst noted another largely mental obstacle of the race. 
"The last mile of the Aquinas course is difficult because it is a repeat of the first mile, which leads to difficulty in staying focused," she said 
Despite these challenges, many of the 25 runners competing for the Belles turned in strong indi-
Office of International Studies 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 




INNSBRUCK 
Central European Studies Program 
2007-2008 Academic Year 
Please Join Prof. Hannelore Weber and returnees of the program Information Session 
Tuesday, Sept. 12, 2006 118 DEBARTOLO 5:00PM 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud Questions?-Weber.15@nd.edu Application Deadline: November 15, 2006 
vidual times. Megan Gray, rebounding from an injury­plagued season last year, posted a time of 20:03, good for eighth place in the individual medal race. Megan McClowry came in third for the Belles in her first collegiate race with a 20:44. Sara Otto recorded a 20:32, Kelly Biedron a 21:09 and Kelly White finished with a 21:17 to round out the top five for the Belles. Other Belle harriers post­ed some great times in compari­son to their times at Aquinas last year as well. Erin Newsom dropped a minute off last year's time, while Kim Burkart and Audra Maxbauer dropped over two minutes each. 
The Belles have another diffi­cult week of training and races lined up, with Bauters planning to up the intensity in workouts to prepare the team for a full week­end. The majority of the runners will get the opportunity to com­pete, as the team will be divided to attend two separate meets this coming Friday. Due to a limit on entries at the NO Catholic meet, another group of runners will be traveling down to Terre Haute for the Indiana Intercollegiates. 
"[The Indiana Intercollegiates] should be a great opportunity to race against some wonderful Indiana competition," Bauters said. "We'll look for improve­ments at Notre Dame and hope­fully for the first years -more experimenting with racing strat­egy, so they become more com­fortable and confident." 
As far as racing strategy goes, the Belles will continue to focus on pacing and teamwork, 
"For next week, we want to get the top pack tighter," O'Brien said. "Our 1-5 runners were really spaced out. We all fin­ished about 10-12 seconds behind the Saint Mary's runner in front of us. I think Coach Bauters would really like to see us maintain contact during the race and use our teammates to attack runners and as motiva­tion." 
Contact Becki Dorner at rdorner1 @nd.edu 

St. Mary's falls in finals of tourna111ent 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 

St. Mary's won three of four matches in the Maria French Memorial Tournament this weekend, losing the tournament final in four sets to host Baldwin-Wallace. 
The loss was only the Belle's second this season, and it Belles' outsider hitter Kristen Playko and setter Amanda David were named to the all­tournament team. 
Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek was impressed with the team's overall performance. 
"We played very strong throughout the tournament, but were definitely challenged the most by Baldwin­Wallace," Schroeder­
Biek said. "In the

ended their "I was very proud 
final match it was
budding win 

ofhow our players 
very exciting because 
streak. After 

responded and we were forced the
notching its 
work much harder

fourth win in a rose to the 
for our points. I was

row and finish­competition. " 
very proud of how
ing undefeated 
our players respond­
in pool play, St. 

Julie Schroeder-Biek ed and rose to the
Mary's fell to a 
com petition." 

strong Yellow Belles coach 
Jackets team. The 3-1 (30-27, 16-30, 30-19, 30-28) victory improved Baldwin-Wallace's record to 7-1 on the season and dropped St. Mary's to 8-2. 
Sophomore Maria 
DePeters led 
Baldwin-Wallace with 13 kills, 
and Yellow Jackets Kelsey Hills, 
Angie Camp, and Meggie 
Marten were also named to the 
All-Tournament team. 
Saint Mary's began the tour­
nament Friday with two out­
standing performances in the 
first two games of pool play. In 
the first match of the tourna­
ment the Belles faced Lake Erie 
and breezed to a 3-0 (30-16, 30­
8, 30-10) victory. St. Mary's then 
faced Case Western Reserve, 
and again rolled to a 3-0 (30-22, 
30-11, 30-23) win. Laura 
Slupczynski led the Belles with 
25 kills in the first two matches, 
while senior Kristen Playko . added 16 kills of her own. Ann 

Carpenter and Cathy Kurczak ­
notched 14 kills each. 
The team concluded pool play 
Saturday with a 3-0 (30-19, 30­
23, 30-20) sweep· of John 
Carroll. John Carroll lost to 
Heidelberg in the third place 
match to finish fourth. 
"The competition steadily 
improved as the tournament 
moved ,on," Schroeder-Biek 
said. "We dominated all the 
teams in group play." 
. St. Mary's will next travel to 

... 
Albion College (1-5) for an MIAA match at 7 p.m. The Belles are currently 1-1 in MIAA plax. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 11, 2006 
Iowa 
continued from page 20 
this season the fourth consec­utive that the Irish have opened up with a win on the road. 
"We didn't play really well in any of the matches," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. "Just statistically speaking we didn't really play up to the level were capable of. We just had a lot of errors. Certainly we don't think that will be a characteristic of the team." 
Senior co-captain and libero Danielle Herndon collected 65 digs in three matches to 
anchor the Irish defense. She was also named to the all­tournament team following the Northern Iowa loss. 
"[HerndonJ had an excellent weekend, especially .defensive­ly" Brown said. "She made a lot of really important digs and kept us in it -[she] was by a far our steadiest player." 
Co-captain Adrianna Stasiuk turned in an impressive per­formance on both sides of the ball as she blasted 30 kills and collected 40 digs. 
Several freshmen con­tributed in a big way through­out the tournament, including two-time Big East rookie {Jf the week Christina Kaelin and outside hitter Megan Fest. 
Kaelin had 49 kills -a 

team-high 20 against both only the second time in two Alabama and Northern Iowa years in Saturday's 24-30, 21­-and Fesl blasted 14 kills 30, 28-30 loss to the Wildcats. against the Tide, the second­Notre Dame committed 38 highest Irish total. attack errors and had a .023 
successful attack percentage. Notre Dame 3, Alabama 1 The team did not lead in the 
The Irish defeated the match until a 9-8 advantage in Crimson Tide in four games by the second game. scores of 30-25, The Wildcats 22-30, 30-19 and controlled the 30-26. net and out­
A service ace "We didn't play blocked the from freshman Irish 20.5 to 14
really well in any of
Jamel Nicholas to set a Kansas and a Stasiuk kill the matches." State block in the fourth game record -the propelled the Irish previous mark
Debbie Brown 
to an early lead of 18 was set

Irish head coach 
and a 29-25 tally  Oct. 4, 1986  
for game point.  against  
In the first  Louisville.  
game, Alabama took a 7-1  The Irish made a comeback  
lead before Notre Dame called  in the third game, taking a 22­ 
a timeout to regroup. The  20 lead at one point. But the  
timeout strategy must have  Wildcats rallied on a crucial  
worked, as Notre Dame went  block by Sandy Werner and  
on a 4-1 run before tying the  Megan Kroeker to push ahead  
game at 15 behind several  26-25. A Jenny Jantsch kill  
Stasiuk kills.  with a 29-28 lead closed out  
Kaelin opened the contest on  the win for Kansas State.  
consecutive kills to give the  
Irish a 24-22 edge, and the  Northern Iowa 3, Notre Dame 2  
game was won after an  The Irish eould not hold a 2­ 
Alabama. serving error.  1 lead as they fell in five  
The Tide knotted the match  games, 28-:~o. 30-20, 34-32,  
at one apiece when it used a  21-30, 11-15 to the Panthers  
4-0 run and Irish attack errors  in the l'inal game of the  
to take the second game.  Invitational.  
Mallorie Croat gave the Irish  The two teams played a close  
a commanding 22-15 lead in  fifth game, tying the score  
the third stanza with her sec­ three separate times in the 15­ 
ond kill of the game -she  point deciding set. The Irish  
had eight kills for the match.  rallied to tie the game at 8-8  
Justine Stremick and Stasiuk  and 11-11 on kills from  
closed out the game with a  Colleen Nolan and Serinity  
winning block for the 2-1  Phillips.  
fJdge.  But Northern Iowa capped a  
4-0 run after the Phillips' kill  
Kansas State 3, Notre Dame 0  with a match-ending service  
The Irish were swept for  ace.  

"Through the match I felt we were going to win," Brown said. "lWei played with a lot more intensity, a lot more emotion and executed our game plan a lot better. All through the game I kept think­ing we were going to come up with the play that would make it happen." 
Phillips had 10 kills and eight digs in the match, while Stasiuk collected 13 kills in the loss. 
Phillips came off the bench for the match against Northern Iowa and "played very well and was very steady," Brown said. 
The Irish lost a close-fought first game, but came back to take the next two. The ·second game was won on a kill by Kaelin and the third came on a Panther setting error. 
Northern Iowa forced.the fifth game when it cruised on a game-sealing 7-4 run. 
"This is a fast game. One or two errors are enough to put the other team over," Brown said. "I couldn't really say it was one thing. I felt like we played hard, we competed hard, and we were in it the whole time but they pulled it out in the end." 
This was the second consec­utive Invitational in which the Irish have played, after a sec­ond-place showing in last weekend's Shamrock Invitational. Notre Dame will play in the Sun Devil Volleyball Classic at Arizona State this weekend in a final tune-up before its 2006 Big East open­er against Rutgers Sept. 23. 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 

-
' 
' 
I 
.l I 
' 
i ·­
' 
' I 
I
. 
-

.12" Cheese .......... $4.99 SEPTEMBER DEALS toppings ........ $1.00 each 
0 S ·99 2 Liter with 12" pizza 
17" Cheese .......... $9.99 f) FREE 2 Liter with 17" pizza toppings ........ $1.25 each 



food.nd.edu 

----------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, September 11, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS 
Golf 
continued from page 24 
sophomore Lisa Maunu, who finished eighth as a freshman in last year's Notre Dame Invitational, and senior Stacy Brown, who has a career aver­age of 78.64. 
"These girls are used to this type of competition," Veltri said. "They're ready to go and see how all their work over the summer will pay off." 
Freshmen Annie Brophy and Kristin Wetzel will compete in their first tournament this week. Both were top-1 00 recruits coming out of high school according to National Junior Golf Scoreboard. They've hit different clubs off 
"Once Annie and Kristin hit the tee boxes and they've taken the first tee shot their nerves time to analyze each hole." will go away," Veltri said. Golfstatlive.com will provide "They've hit the hole-by-hole scor­ball well and ing of the event. have read the The Irish fin­
'These girls are 
greens well in ished tied for third practice this used to this type of last year in the Big week." competition." East Conference 
The last time and missed mak­the Irish partic­ing the NCAA 
Kyle Veltri
ipated in the Tournament. Cougar Classic Irish assistant coach 
was 2003, the Note: tournament's + Part of the inaugural year, proceeds from the 
when they took first place. tournament will go toward 
"The kids are just ready and breast cancer research. anxious to play," Veltri said. "It is a beautiful golf course and Contact Chris Hine at they are managing it very well. . chine@nd.edu 

Piramides, Palacios y Playas 
Study in Notre Dame's International Study Programs in 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Wednesday, Sept. 13, 2006 116 DeBartolo 

7:00-8:00 PM 
Pre-med program fall semester in Puebla Engineering and business courses in Monterrey Elementary Spanish in Monterrey Summer Program for Engineers and others in Puebla 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: NOVEMBER 15 FOR FALL, SPRING AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2007-8, MARCH I FOR SUMMER 2007 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: www.nd.edu/"'intlstud/ 



Split 
continued from page 24 

Justin McGeeney were unable to capitalize on the opportunity with Br:enner sending McGeeney's effort over the goal for a corner kick. 
Seconds later, the BuB's Simon Schoendorf caught the pressing Irish off-guard with a long through ball which put Seabrook behind the defense just beyond midfield. Seabrook outran the Notre Dame defense and slotted the ball past an onrushing Andrew Quinn for what would prove to be the game-winning goal. 
"We got caught forward, and we got caught napping," Irish head coach Bobby Clark said. "To be fair, the Seabrook lad is very fast. If you give him that amount of space, he's going to capitalize on it." 
Three minutes later, Schoendorf would add his name to the scorer's list when he received a ball on the edge of the 18-yard box, cut inside his defender and unleashed a blis­tering shot. Quinn could only get a hand on it as the ball flew into the back of the net for the final goal of the game. 
Notre Dame had many chances to open the scoring early in the night, and it appeared that sen­ior midfielder Nate Norman would give Notre Dame the lead in the 71st minute. When a Brenner clearance of an Irish cross fell right to his feet, Norman chipped a shot over an out-of-position Brenner, but the ball rebounded off the post. The Irish offense was shut out despite out-shooting South Florida 17-9 and holding a 10-2 advantage in corner kicks. 
"It was a heartbreaker for us to lose after having as much of the game as we did," Clark said. "I think if we had scored first, it would have been comfortably our game, but [South Florida] is a great team and you have to put them away early." 
With the loss, the Irish dropped to 2-2-1 on the season while South Florida improved to 3-2-0. The game evoked memo­ries of the team's other loss, a 1­0 defeat at the hands of UAB in double overtime in which Notre Dame finished ahead in every category but the scoreboard. 
Friday night marked the third consecutive week that the Irish have been shut out on the open-
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS "W"ANTED BUYING & TRADING ALL SEASONS ALL GAMES & LOCATIONS 

18 YEARS CONFIDENTIAL SERVICE 
CASH PAID TODAY 
Preferred Tickets 234-5650 

page 17 
ing game of their weekend. "I hope [the team's] disappoint­ed right now, because I'm cer­
tainly disappointed right now," Clark said. "All our horses were there, but the ball just didn't fall quite right for us at the vital times." 
Notre Dame 3, DePaul 0 
Continuing its early season trend of following Friday frustra­tion with Sunday domination, Notre Dame easily defeated DePaul 3-0 Sunday afternoon at Alumni Field to record its first Big East victory of the season. 
It didn't take long for the Irish take control of the game. Forward Justin McGeeney opened the scoring in only the second minute with his third goal of the season after forward Joseph Lapira had crossed a ball into the box that McGeeney chested down, turned and fired into the goal. 
McGeeney's goal was just one of many chances for Notre Dame early in the game, a point that Irish head .coach Bobby Clark spoke to his team about. 
"We had three good chances in the first ten minutes against South Florida [Friday night], but we weren't ready for them," Clark said. 
Notre Dame's second goal wouldn't come for nearly 65 minutes, but it wasn't for a lack of opportunities. 
Midfielder Michael Thomas had a point blank header from six yards out in the 19th minute, but he sent it over the top of the goal. Ian Etherington almost doubled Notre Dame's lead in the 40th minute when he rocketed a swerving shot that went inches wide of the upper corner of the goal. 
It was more of the same in the second half. After only five min­utes in, midfielder Nate Norman had the ball fall to his feet off a corner kick. But he was unable to capitalize as he miss-hit the ball sending it out for a goal kick. 
It wasn't until the 68th minute that the Irish could exhale. McGeeney rose highest to head the ball toward goal off a Lapira corner kick, but a Blue Demon defender was there to clear the ball off the line. In the ensuing scramble, defender Matt Besler sent the ball back across the box, and midfielder Greg Dalby was there to turn and volley the ball into the net. 
We knew we'd won the game [with the second goal], and that was very relieving for me because we've been keeping teams around," Clark said. 
Any remaining doubt regard­ing the outcome was put to rest in the 72nd minute. Etherington gathered the ball near the corner of the 18 yard box off a long cross, cut inside his defender and sent a hard curling ball into the box that was deflected by a DePaul defender into the back of the net for the final goal of the game. 
"It was a very convincing game," Clark said. "We played superbly well on Friday night, but we didn't finish the job off. We could have done it earlier, but it was nice to finally put DePaul out of sight." 
With the win, Notre Dame evens its Big East record at 1-1-0 and improves its overall record to 3-2-1. The Irish return to action next Friday night at Louisville, and Clark hopes to use Sunday's result as momen­tum for next weekend. 
"Now we have to get a run going," he said. "We haven't won two games in a row all season which has been disappointing. Hopefully, we can get that going at Louisville." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

J 
....-----------------------------­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 11, 2006 
Sunday 
continued from page 20 
This time. the Irish dominat­Pd visiting DePaul, taking the [pad in tlw second minute on a Justin MrGee1wy goal and m•vPr giving tlw Blue Demons a spcond to relax. Notn' Damn lirl'd 27 shots on goal-com­pared with four for l>PPaul­en route to a :{-0 vietorv. 
In their six games thi~ sea­son, the Irish an• :1-0-0 in games played on Sunday. including wins over No. 11 Indiana and Creighton, who was No. 8 according to the NSCAA!adidas poll when they played Notre Dame. The Irish are 0-2-1 in games played on Friday night, including Friday night's 2-0 loss to South Florida. 
Even though yesterday's total was Notre Dame lowest offen­sive output on a Sunday yet, the Irish are averaging four goals a game on Sundays. Conversely, the Irish are still looking for their first Friday night goaL 
After Sunday's win, head coach Bobby Clark made a sug­gestion that most people associ­ated with the team would likely go along with gladly. 
"We should just play double­headers on Sunday," he said. "We shouldn't play on Friday." 
Strangely, there hasn't been too much of a drop from the Irish's Sunday afternoon play to the way they play Friday nights. In both of its two losses, Notre Dame has had a com­manding lead with regard to shots on goaL They outshot USF 17-9 on Friday, and they had a 23-5 shot advantage against UAB two weeks ago, despite the fact that UAB won 1-0. In fact, the only game in which the Irish haven't had the edge in shots on goal was last Sunday against Indiana, where they were outshot 19-12 by the Hoosiers but won the game S-4, making it the first time Indiana had ever given up five goals in the history of its program. The main difference for the Irish offense has been that shots only find the back of the net on Sundays. 
"We had three good chances in the first ten minutes against South Florida, but we weren't ready for them," Clark said. "It doesn't matter whether the chances come in the first minute or the last minute, 
when the chances come you have to be ready for them." 
Even though the Irish con­trolled the game Sunday, they still didn't have a comfortable margin until All-American mid­fielder Greg Dalby put in a
-· deflected ball midway through the second half to put them up 2-0. 
-
"We kept that game hanging around until about the 68th minute, [even though] we were clearly killing them," Clark said. "As long as it's a one goal game, they can still squeeze a goal out of a set piece, like UAB did [two weeks ago)." 
Ultimately, Clark realizes that the path Notre Dame takes this season is dependant on only one thing. 
"At the end of the game, 
nobody remembers the statis­
tics, only the score," he said. 
"There's no use in playing well 
if you don't score." 
For the Irish, it seems best if 
people would only remember 
the Sundays. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd. edu 

Wins 
continued from page24 
struck from the wing that found Bock on tlw back post. 
Bock's goal was surprising in that earliPr in the WPek Waldrum said IH~ hadn't planned on playing Bock or 
))pw after tlwy rl'lurncd to Notre Damn from the U-20 W o r I d Championships in Hussia the last several weeks. 
"I hadn't really planned . going into the weekend with preconceived notions of playing them," 
"/hadn't really planned going into the weekend with preconceived notions ofplaying [Bock and Dew/.,, 
Randy Waldrum Irish head coach 

WP had a lol of support fr•~m lhf' fans in ll'xa:-.. so that was nicP." 
Arter a day o IT, Notrn Damn faeed a Mustang squad (3-2-1 l Jed by vet­eran head man ­and Waldrum's coaching mentor­John Cossaboon, who was looking for his 50th victory at SMU with an 
Waldrum said. "Friday night I felt like the players we had just weren't sharp enough attacking the side of the field. Brittany is the type of player that can help you get a goal. We may have to play her because she can get a goal for us and sure enough she scored a goaL" 
Waldrum also played Dew, as well as six other subs to beat the southern summer heat. After Dew and Bock have another week to settle in, Waldrum won't know until Thursday what his starting lineup for Friday night's match at DePaul will look like. 
Amid the hoopla surround­ing tho gamn. Irish captain defPncl!~r Kim Lornnznn was plnasantly surprisnd by tho rncPption her tP<Uil rPrPivnd. 
"Tiwrn wnrP a lot of lli'Opln hut thn nowd W<tsn't that loud. It was fun playing undnr tlw lights but I "·"flPCtl'd it to lw a lil.l.ln bit mort' llwstilnl. 
upset of the top-ranked Irish. 
For the first 45 minutes, that looked possible. But after another slow start on the road, the Irish attack picked up the slack in the second half to rally for three goals, including two by forward Kerri Hanks. Hanks beat Mustang keeper Ashley Gunter three minutes into the half to post the first points on the scoreboard. I Ianks added her team leading fifth goal of the season on a penalty kick in the 70th minute after junior forward Amanda Cinalli was taken down in the box. Forward Molly Iarocci also added her first score of the year three minutes bnfore tho !imtl whis­t!P. 
"Wn worf' sluggish in tlw 
l'irst half and didn't havn that much nnnrgy, Waldrum said. "But WP playPd WI'[[ in tlw :-.•·rond half and lookPd lik<' a top­rank<'d tnam." 
Whiln goal­knopnr Lauren Karas only had to make three 

saves in her two shutouts this weekend, Waldrum and Co. are not satisfied with their overall defensive play. 
"We've been shaky though in all our games," he said. "It's not just giving up goals, at bad times we have made some unforced errors and turned it over in bad parts of the field. That continues to give us diffi­culty on those turnovers." 
Though the Irish have only surrendered two goals in six games, Lorenzen agrees with her coach's assessment. 
"I don't think the numbers really show !the problems]," Lorenzon said. "It's good that we kept shutouts but I think our defPnsp is something we'rp continuing to work on and 

"It:-; good that we kept gpt b<'t tn. 
shutouts but I think our Obviously \\I' I'Xpnrt a litt.l<'
dl:/('nse is something 
bit lwttl'r play

uw 're continuing to from us in thP 
U'ork on and get futun•." Waldrum
better." 
thinks till' unit 

will improvP as Randy Waldrum it con tin uns to Irish head coach play l.ogethnr. 
"I think 
we're a good defense, but not a great defense," he said. "We need to get better in that area. The players we have can get it done, but we have to get some consistency because we're not used to each other enough." 
The Irish began Big East play Friday before closing their non-conference schedule with a trip to Ann Arbor Sunday to face Michigan. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 

Spice Up Your Mondays! 

Enjoy a double order of chicken, steak or combo fajitas {enough for two) for just $12!~: 
Regular price $20.99. 
c 


SPICEALICIOUS MISHAWAKA 

4810 Grape Rd. 271-1330 


*Offer valid every Monday 11 a.m. to close. 

Qualityoff-campus tiousing 
Leasing for 2007-2008 school year 
Houses, Townhouses, Apartments 
• Close to campus  • Washers & dryers  
• Student neighborhoods  • Dishwashers  
• Security systems  • Internet ready  
• 24-hour maintenance staff  • Lawn service  


Call today -properties rent quickly. Contact Kramer at 

(574) 315-5Q32tcell) (574) 234•2436toffice) 
To view all of our houses, visit www.kramerhouses.com 
Monday, September 11, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ALEC WHITE
JOCULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM A5 MUC.I-\ AS. \ 1::»"' "11-iE. 
N\\IEF..SAI..-ACLEP"f',ANCE THE. PRoMO l""o\tJEI..S. B'/ 
CROISSANTWORLD 
"'11-\E: S"[uDEN"t:S -rHA-r'S 
1 
l:fe-TONI..1 \<:.IN[> OF ANI'JO'f Jl'o.\b. 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 33 Euripides drama 69 Basic version: Abbr.
Dennis the 35 "_a gun!" Menace-type 70 Atwitter, with
36 L-ate, as a

kids "up"
payment 6 Luxuriates 71 Fork feature 
39 Incited 11 "Just 
43 Street-smart

thought!" DOWN 
14 Love to pieces 45 Spine-tingling 1 "Kapow!" 
15 Maine college 46 Agree 2 Nutritional inits. 
town 51 SSE's opposite 3 "All systems go" 16 Stanley Cup org. 
52 "This won't hurt 4 Lock of hair 17 Start a " 
5 Actor Connery negotiation 53 Seen once in a 6 Dance 

19 Dover's state: blue moon energeticallyAbbr. 
54 Korean soldiers 7 Terrier's sound 20 Minor setback 
55 To the point 8 Tap dancing 21 Raises canines? 
without taps 58 Nick and Nora's 

23 Body parts with dog of story and 9 Patella's place claws 
film 

10 Achy 26 Pizzas 
60 -tac-toe 11 "You said a 28 Mrs. Chaplin mouthful!"
61 Shake on it 29 Miner's 12 Singer Easton 
66 Put into service discovery 13 "Amen!"

67 Jazz great Shaw 

30 Give a little,  18 Back of the  41 Pigpen cry  48 Chopped into  57 Parched  
take a I ittle 68 cum laude II.NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  neck 22 Chewy candy 23 Ceremonial splendor 24 Square footage 25 Ties the knot 27 UFO occupants  42 Front page fill 44 Nay's opposite 46 It has points in Arizona 47 Double-reed woodwind  small pieces, as food 49 Not suitable for kids, as a movie 50 Go well together 54 Speeder spotter 56 "Out of Africa"  59 Office worker just for the day 62 Commit perjury 63 Sense of self 64 Raggedy doll  
30 Angry with  player  author Dinesen  65 Fall behind  
31 "The Ice Storm"  
director  Lee  For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a  
32 Theater seats  credit card, 1-800-814-5554.  
34 " ... yadda,  Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday  
yadda, yadda"  crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000  
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).  
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young  
solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.  


HENRI ARNOLD 


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 


Jf~ill)1J]. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
THACC 
j



I I [ 

©2006 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 





r~F1~;r xJ 
BYSUIL j 
WH!=N TH!= COM!=­
DIAN BOUGHT TH!= 

L-OUD SUIT, TH!= www.jumble.com TAIL-Or< WAS--­
I [I 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above car-

I 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: BALKY QUEER MOSQUE HOOKED 
Yesterday's Answer: Buying an umbrella in a rainstorm left him ­"SOAKED" 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS HAY: Ryan Phillippe. 32; Chris Columbus, 48; Amy Irving, 53; Joe Perry, 56 
Happy Birthday: This year, you have to make up your mind and make your move before you miss out. Property investments will pay off and whatever you do to bring in a little extra cash will be rewarding. Good things are headed your way but you must make the effort to hang on to what you've got. Your numbers are 5, 17. 19, 28, 32,43 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Plan out your strategy for the week ahead and prepare to make the moves that will enable you to move forward. Your drive to get aheatl may leave someone who wants to spend time with you feeling left out. Plan a nice tlinner. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You've got nothing to lose and everything to gain. It may be the weekend but you can still work on pending deals, bringing about a lucrative agreement. Time spent on self-improvement will make you feel good about yourself. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't push your luck. If you get into a debate \vith. someone, you will end up mining a friendship. Consider the consequences before moving down a path that will chang!' your cunenl situation forever. Look past your own needs. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can make some welcome changes to your living space. A love connection can he made if you are single and, if you aren't, a chance to make your relationship better will lead to a pleasurable day. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Look on the bright side of things and you will make a difference to the people around you who are going through troubles. Your ability to see things a little differently will give you the edge. Consider what you can do to make your position better. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): You wlll have to deal with personal problems that may appear impossible. Once you sort through what's really happened, you can make the necessary changes but don't expect everyone involved to relish what's required. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may end up involved in a secret matter. Visiting an institution, hospital or place unfamiliar to you will give you a different perspective. A surprise may leave you feeling a little uncomfortable. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Attend an event so you can network. You will be surprised how much you can accomplish today if you aggressively seek the information you need. It's time you updated your looks and your attitude. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov.-22-Dec. 21): You may be tempted to spend money you don't have on a trip that will probably not go according to plan. Think twice before you agree to something not in your best interest. A love interest may be convincing but probably not the best influence. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec: 22-Jan. 19): No one will be able to stop you from doing your own thing and making it work successfully for you. Money is headed your way. A chance to make some very good changes at home must be taken advantage of. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Hold on to what you have and observe what everyone else is doing. This isn't the day to make waves or to try to change the people around you. Sit back and be qniet until you are in a better position to barter. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Everything may appear to be up in the air but you are in total control. Consider what it is you want. It's the way you go about things that will count today, so bring on that Pisces charm and reap the rewards. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are intelligent, strong-willed and capable of getting what you want. You are a perfectionist who likes to see all matters through from beginning to end. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 
-
-
-
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ Address City _______ State ____ Zip______ 


THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
THE OBSERVER 






PORTS
Monday, September 11, 2006 
page 20 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Taking back Sunday 
Irish finish at 1-1 in Notre Dame improves conference openers in weekend finales 

If only every day was Sunday.
By GREG ARBOGAST That certainly has to be No. 8
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's mindset right now, after it 

In the span of one minute, 
put togetherNotre Dame squandered its best anotherscoring chance of the evening Sunday victo­and proceeded to watch South ry.

Florida's Jordan Seabrook score For the the decisive goal in the Bull's 2-0 third straight 
win in both-teams' opening 
weekend, the 

game of Big East conference 
Irish played play. 

out what isThe action started in the 85th 

Eric Retter
becoming aminute when Irish defender Jack similar pat-AssociateTraynor won the ball near mid­

tern -strug-Sports Editor 

field, beat three Bull defenders gling to scoreand got a shot off from inside the on Friday night then exploding18-yard box. USF keeper Dane for a big afternoon as theyBrenner conceded a rebound, rebound on Sunday.
but both Joseph Lapira and ALLISON AMBHOSEffhe Observer 
Irish forward Joseph Lapira, left, beats DePaul defender Nathan Feltz to the ball during Notre 
see SUNDAY/page 18

see SPLIT/page 17 Dame's 3-0 win Sunday. Lapira tallied an assist in the victory. 


ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 


Top-ranked Irish continue with their winning ways 
and-biggest crowd at Garvey­Friday night," Irish coach from senior midfielder Jill to keep winning and that [per­
By TIM DOUGHERTY 
Rosenthal Stadium in Horned Randy Waldrum said. "We Krivacek and sophomore for­severance] shows character." 
Associate Sports Editor 
Frog history, the No. 1 ranked were better than a two-goal ward Brittany Bock were the Freshman forward Michele Irish expected a hostile envi­margin but in fairness TCU was only goals Notre Dame could Weissenhofer assisted both Notre Dame relied on late ronment. Though the TCU (3-2) very well-organized and defen­finish. They also proved enough Irish goals to rack her national­scores to shut out TCU 2-0 and fans were more welcoming sively settled in and played the to escape with a win in enemy best total to eight. The first SMU 3-0 this weekend, scoring than expected, its stingy play­game close. They really territory. cross to Krivacek followed the all its goals in the second half ers made the Irish earn a bunkered in and made it diffi­"I was disappointed in not fig­turnover Weissenhofer created as the Irish defended their No. two-goal victory despite con­cult to play through the ten uring out how to break them in TCU territory. Her cross to 1 ranking on the road. trolling the ball most of the players they packed in." out [from being] bunkered in so Bock came on a set play she Playing underneath new game. Despite outshooting the Frogs much," Waldrum said. "[But] at 
lights Friday night in the sec-"It was a little frustrating 19-4, two second-half headers this point in the season we need see WINS/page 18 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
-Season s-wings open at Cougar Classic 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
Notre Dame commences its season today as it tees-off in the Cougar Classic at the par-72 Yeaman's Hall Golf Club in Hanahan, S.C. The Irish will compete against 17 teams in the two-day tournament. 
"We're ranked in the middle
-
of the pack coming into this event," assistant coach Kyle Veltri said. "This tournament will be a good judge of where we are talent-wise compared to the rest of the country." The Irish will participate in 
the event without their injured captain, junior Alejandra-Diaz Calderon, who stayed behind while the rest of the team made the trip to South Carolina. 
"I hurt my lower back and had an MRI earlier this week to see what's wrong," she said. "The injury is in a scary place and no one is sure what it is yet." 
Despite Diaz-Calderon's injury, the Irish still have expe­rience on the links in senior Noriko Nakazaki, who is the program's all-time leader in stroke average with 76.05, 
see GOLF/page 17 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Volleyball loses t-wo out of three 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

No. 23 Notre Dame defeated Alabama in the opening game of the Northern Iowa Invitational, but dropped consecutive matches on the tourna­ment's second day to finish with a 1-2 record in the team's first road contests of the season. 
The Irish {4-4) wer_e swept Saturday by Kansas State and lost 3-2 to host Northern Iowa in the night­cap after beating the Crimson Tide 3-1 Friday. The Alabama win made 
see IOWA/page16 

sMc c~oss cmJ~TRY SMC VOllEYBAll NO CROSS cmJ~T~Y NFL ~Fl NFL 
1.1.1 

(,) Megan Gray leads Belles advance to Men take first at Jaguars 247' Cardinals 34, Jets 24 z Belles to fifth place finish finals of Maria French Crusader invitational; Cowboys 1 49ers 27 Titans 16
c:c at Aquinas Invitational Memorial Tournament, women finish event in T.O. was shut down in Kurt Warner throws New York defense
.... 

with time of 20:03. lose to Baldwin-Wallace second. second half of debut for three touchdowns as thwarts second-half= c:c in final. game with Dallas. Arizona breaks in new comeback attempt by stadium. Tennessee. 
page 15 page 15 page 14 page 12 page 12 page 12
=c 


.-------------~------~~-------------, 

ERINSIDER 
Monday, September 11, 2006 Fall Career Expo 2006 
The Mendoza College of Business and The Career Center Present 
***** 
FALL 



page 2 
How to Prepare for the Career Fair 
1. Compose a resume that markets your background and skills 
• 
Attend a "Resume Writing" workshop or visit the "Resume Tools" section of The Career Center website 

• 
Visit The Career Center in 248 Flanner Hall from 


1:00 -4:30 p.m. daily for a resume review during walk-in hours 
2. Prepare, Prepare, Prepare 
• 
Attend a "Preparing for the Career Fair" workshop 

• 
Detennine your objectives for attending 

• 
Review the list of companies attending the fair on Go IRISH, determine who is interviewing the day after the fair and your "Top I 0" list of companies to visit 

• 
Review the position descriptions on Go IRISH 

• 
Visit company websites and review mission statements, annual reports, and new products or services 

• 
Develop and refine networking, relationship-building skills 

• 
Develop your "Thirty Second Message" 

• 
Hello, I'm ... (introduce yourself, your year and ma­jor, and interest in industry/career field) 

• 
Your company is... (demonstrate knowledge· of company) 

• 
I'm interested because ... (explain why you want to work there) 

• 
l can ... (match your skills with their needs) 




3. What to do the day of the fair 
• 
Dress in business attire and bring several copies ofyour resume in a portfolio/folder to Gate 3 ofthe Joyce Center 

• 
Scan your ID when you enter 

• 
Review the map of employer booths and take a bag for "giveaways" 

• 
Be proactive by approaching employers 

• 
Speak with both young alums and experienced representatives 

• 
Demonstrate confidence and enthusiasm in delivering your "Thirty Second Message" 

• 
Ask the representative how to sign up for an interview, IF that company is recruiting the next day (i.e. "After reviewing your company information and the position available, I am interested in speaking with you or one of your colleagues further. How can I obtain a slot on your interview schedule tomorrow at The Career Center?") 

• 
Obtain the representative's business card 


4. Following the fair 

• 
Ifyou obtain an interview: 

• 
Prepare by researching the company, it's indus­try, it's competitors, and the job or internship description on Go IRISH. See information on· right. 

• 
Review The Career Center's online Interview­ing Guide and be sure to practice sample interviewing questions 



• 
Whether or not you obtain an interview: 


• Send an email or written thank-you letter to the recruiters you collected business cards from, within 72 hours of the fair 
Preparing tor Fall career Euo Workshops 
Monday, September 11 
Business Majors: 5:00p.m. in G-20 Planner Hall 
A&LMajors: 7:00p.m. in G-20 Planner Hall 
Monday, September 11 , 2006 
How do Notre Dame students perform during interviewsii 
According to an employer survey conducted last spring, ND students exhibited strengths in interviewing as far as confidence and maturi~v, academic achievement, and extracurricular involvement.· However, students need to have better knowledge oforganizations, industries, and positions during their interviews. 
Where can vou find out more about the companies, industries, and positions:» 
Utilize Go IRISH 
To view all companies that are coming to the Fall Career Expo, and to review their job postings: 
I. Login to Go IRlSH 
2. Click on Job~/Internships 
3. 
Click on Go IRISH Jobs 

4. 
In the "Keywords" field, type in the Career Fair code (FCE =Fall Career Expo, WCIF =Winter Career and In­ternship Fair, ElD =Engineering Industry Day) 


• For an alphabetical list of: 
• 
Employers, click on "Employer" 

• 
Positions, click on "Job Title" 


Conduct companv and industrv research at the following websites: 
THE VAULT ONLINE CAREER LIBRARY http://careercenter.nd.edu/undergrad.php Contains insider company information, advice, and career management services. Includes an extensive selection of career, industry, and employer guides and articles. See The Career Center's "Job & Internship Databases" on their web page for login information. 
WETFEET-http:/ /wetfeet.com Contains company and industry research and career­related information to help students make better career decisions. Also includes jobs and internships. 
CAREERSEARCH http://www .careersearch. net/v2/cl ient Provides access to a networking database of over 2 million companies nationwide. Search for information on a particular company, industry, or location using a variety of search options. See The Career Center's "Job & Intern­ship Databases" page for login information. 
FACTIVA 
Includes company news, financial information, key competitors, and more. 
• 
Go to: http://www.library.nd.edu 

• 
Click onF 


• 
Select Factiva 

• 
Once in Factiva, select the Companies/Markets ­Company Quick Search tab 


• Click on the Name button and type in the company 
MARKET INSIGHT 
Contains excellent industry information. 
• Go to: http://www.library.nd.edu 
• 
Click on M and Select Market insight 

• 
Once within Market insight, select Industry from the top toolbar 


• From the pull down menu, click appropriate industry and select Go! 
The Career Center 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
page 3 Monday, September 11 , 2006 
Career Insider Participants 
American Eagle Outfitters 
www.AE.com 
Description: American Eagle Outfitters is a leading lifestyle retailer that designs, markets, and sells its own brand of casual, fashion-right clothing for 15 to 25 year-olds, providing high­quality merchandise at affordable prices. 
Aon Corporation 
www.aon.com 
Description: Aon is a global leader in risk management, insurance and reinsurance brokerage, human capital and management consulting, and outsourcing with more than 46,000 employees in 120 countries worldwide. 
BOO Seidman 
www.bdo.com 
Description: BOO Seidman is a national professional services firm providing assurance, tax, financial advisory and consulting services to private and publicly traded businesses. For more than 90 years, we have provided quality service and leadership through the active involvement of experienced and committed professionals. 
Citigroup 
www. citiqroup. com 
Description: Citigroup Inc. is today's pre­eminent financial services company, with some 200 million customer accounts in more than 100 countries. Other major brand names under Citigroup's trademark red umbrella include Citi Cards, CitiFinancial, CitiMortgage, Citilnsurance, Primerica, Diners Club, The Citigroup Private Bank, and CitiCapital. 
Countrywide Financial 
http://mv. countrywide. com/ 
Description: Countrywide Financia I Corporation is more than a mortgage banking company. They are a growth-oriented financial services organization with operations on an increasingly global scale. Their diversification includes cap~al markets, insurance and banking services with Countrywide Bank. 
Crowe Chizek and Company 
www. crowechizek. com 
Description: Crowe Chizek is a leading 
provider of assurance, consulting, risk 
management, tax and technology services to 
large and middle market public companies 
and large privately-held businesses. 
Eli Lilly and Company 
www.lillv.com 
Description: Lilly is a leader in the 
pharmaceutical industry with its global 
headquarters in lndi anapo lis, IN. The 
company employs more than 44,000 people 
worldwide and markets its medicines in 179 
countries. 
Ernst & Young 
www.ey.com 
Description: Ernst & Young helps companies to deal with a broad range of business issues. Our 103,000 people in over 140 countries worldwide can implement a broad array of solutions for critical business performance issues. 
FactSet Research Systems 
www.factset.com 
Description: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 
is a major supplier of online integrated 
financial and economic information to the 
investment management and banking 
industries. 
GEICO 
www. qeico. comlonca mpus 
Description: For nearly 70 years, GEICO has distinguished itself from the rest of the insurance industry. They are a multi-billion dollar, industry leader with 12 major offices and over 21,000 associates across the 
Harris Williams & Company 
http://www.harriswilliams.com 
Description: Harris Williams & Co. is the 
nation's largest independently owned mergers and acquisition firm, focusing exclusively on middle market transactions with enterprise values of up to $500 million. 
Johnson & Johnson 
h_ttp./fl;!WV!Jnj. C()_f!l/care(Jrs/ 
Description: Johnson & Johnson, through its operating companies, is the world's most comprehensive and broadly based manufacturer of health care products, as well as a provider of related services, for the consumer, pharmaceutical, and medical devices and diagnostics markets. 
KPMG 
http://www.kpmg.com/ 
Description: KPMG is an accounting and tax firm that offers clients a powerful combination of people, products, technologies, and results­oriented strategies to help meet their challenges and improve performance. 
Maersk, Inc. 
www.maersk. com 
Maersk Inc. is the North American agent for Maersk Line, the largest provider of containerized transportation solutions in the world. Our parent company, the A.P. Moller-Maersk Group of Copenhagen, employs more than 70,000 people in over 125 countries. In North America, our business units include the industry I eaders in shipping terminal operations, trucking, warehousing & distribution, customhouse brokerage services, container equipment maintenance & repair, U.S. Government maritime & logistics operations, and global supply chain management. Our established leadership position in the global business arena allows us to provide unparalleled career opportunities for dedicated college grads in the fields of Accounting & Finance, Customer Service, Entry-Level Management, Logistics, Sales, and many areas of Transportation Operations. To learn more, visit: 
www.maersk.com -Go to: "Jobs & Careers" (Vacancies). 
EOE MIFIDIV 

Morningstar 
http://global.morninqstar.com 
Description: Morningstar Inc. is a leading 
provider of independent investment research in the U.S. and in major international markets. Our mission is to create products that help investors reach their financial goals. We offer a line of Internet software, and print-based 
products for our clients. 
NIBCO 
www.nibco.com 
Description: NIBCO Inc. is 'Ahead of the 
Flow' as it approaches its 1 OOth year of 
manufacturing excellence in the flo··· sontrol 
industry. Recognized internationally, the 
NIBCO brand name is synonymous with 
quality products, compet~ive pricing and a full 
range of services. 
Protiviti 
http://www.protiviti.com/ 
Description: Protiviti is the leading provider of completely independent internal audit and business and technology risk consulting services. We help clients identify, measure and manage operational and technology­related risks they face within their industries and throughout their systems and processes. 
Silver Point Capital 
No website available 
Description: Silver Point Capital is a multi­strategy credit opportunity fund that specializes in credit analysis and credit-related investments, which we believe offer the opportunity for more attractive risk-adjusted returns than the equity and traditional fixed 
St. Paul Travelers 
www.stpaultravelers.com/ Description: St. Paul Travelers, a member of the Fortune 100, is headquartered in St. Paul, MN, with Insurance Operations in Hartford, CT, and is a leading provider of commercial and consumer insurance. 
Steve & Barry's University Sportswear 
www.steveandbarrys.com 
Description: Founded in 1985, Steve and Barry set out to open a new kind of "on campus" collegiate apparel store. Twenty years later, Steve & Barry's original philosophy has led the successful opening of 62 stores throughout the country including shopping mall mega stores and stores located on 5 prestigious college campuses. 
Stockman Kast-Ryan +Co. 
http://www. skrco. com Stockman Kast Ryan+ Co. offers a wide 
variety of tax, audit (no SEC audits), and business consulting services. We are the largest locally owned CPA firm in southern 
Colorado, with the widest range ofindustry experience -from small businesses and high 
net worlh individuals to healthcare and not-for­profit organizations, from construction and real estate to manufacturing and technology 
Next sum merSKRCO will be looking for both 
full time audit and tax individuals, as well as 
an intern with both tax classes behind them. If you are a qualified, enthusiastic individual with 
a strong desire to relocate to Colorado and join our growing company, come look us up at 
the 2006 Fall Career Fair. 
Vanguard 

www. vanguard. com 
Description: The Vanguard Group is a leader in the investment management business. They are a mutual fund company, existing only to serve their mutual fund shareholders, and that translates into unmatchable value for investors. 
Virchow Krause & Company 
www. virchowkrause .com 
Description: Virchow, Krause & Company is 
a certified public accounting and consulting 
firm that currently ranks as the 15th largest 
firm in the country according to the 2005 
Public Accounting Report's "Top 100." 
Volkswagen Credit 
www.vwcredit.com 
Description: At the risk of stating the obvious, we know a thing or two about Volkswagen vehicles and the people who drive them. So when it comes to getting into a Volkswagen, we give you plenty of options. We've got plans for college grads, first-time buyers, people who like to buy and people who prefer leasing. 
Walgreens 

www. wal greens. com/careers 
Description: Walgreens is America's best­
known, largest volume pharmacy retailer. 
They lead the U.S. chain drugstore industry in 
sales, store growth, and profits. 
Whirlpool Corporation 
WW\JV. whi[lp_Q_OI-20fT/ 
Description: Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of more than $13 billion. They have 68,000 employees, and nearly 50 manufacturing and technology research centers around the globe. 
page 4 Monday, September 11 , 2006 
Interested in striking a balance? 
At BDO Seidman, our clients and our professionals are a priority. 
Known for our technical experience, excellent staff~toMpartner ratio, and extensive national and international resources, BOO Seidman, LLP provides an environment dedicated both to high quality client service and to the development and growth of our professionals. 
Thinking about your future? Explore the opportunities that may exist for you at BOO Seidman. 
We are currently recruiting Accounting majors (Bachelor's and Master's students) for full time and summer internship positions in our offices nationwide. 
We will also be interviewing candidates on campus on September 14th and September 26th. 
Visit www.bdo.com to learn more. 


Aon is a globat leader in risk management. insurance and reinsurance brokerage, human capital and management consulting, and outsourcing with more than 46.000 empfoyees in more than 500 offices in 1 20 countries worldwide. We integrate customized services. Jeverage expertise across industries and apply business knowledge to our clients' strategic goals. Aon helps clients anticipate how change intersects with opportunity. Each of our clients has unique business needs, so we have developed expertise for a complete range of business processes. products and industries. Aon·s account and relationship managers form a comprehensjve perspective of our clients, organizations, matching our expertise to their business strategy. 
We offer two tracks for career devefopment:: Rotational Development 
Path and Direct Development Path in the areas of Insurance Brokerage 
and Risk Management, HR Consulting, Underwriting. Actuarial, Finance & Accounting and Corporate HR. 
For more information about Aon Corporation. visit our website at www.aon.com or look us up on GOIRISH. 
Make sure to drop off your resume at GO IRISH by 5:00p.m. on Thursday. September 14. 


page 5 Monday, September 11 , 2006 

I~ea:r:r.1 .more abo-....t -....s.. i:r.acl-....dill'::t.g c~..rrer.a.t career opport-u.:J."1ities,. at vvvvvv.v-i:rchovv.kra'-"I.Se.com! 
Vot:.ed uBes1: Accounting Firm in'WiSconsin~• and c•Most: Admired Wisconsin Companyn by Corporat:e t:lepC>rt:,Wisconsin~s Bes1: in Business Awards in 2005. Selected Winner of' 2006 Met:ropolit:an Det:roit:•s Best and Brightest! Named one of' MinneapoliS/51:. Paul Business Journ<iJI!,~;:r:;;: ""Cire~t: e•~~:s; 'tP .Workn f'or 2006_ 
·g:::::::·;::::::······ 

. CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS & CONSULTANTS · 
/> .,..., 

page 6 Monday, September 11 , 2006 
{ Where leaders in the financial industry look to you J 

When your clients are top investment professionals, including more than 700'of the largest investment firms in the world, thE!re,!ationships you build are criticaL Consultants form this essential link between FactSet clients and our software, 
,_:.x_,...... 
factSetrecruits enll!n.Jetjc, driven Consultants from top-tier technical, financ~;~; business, mathematics, and MIS OprogrCl~~~9 develoP innovative ways to streamline research and analysis through one-on-one contact with leaders in the financialilidustry. 
,,.;,,,;,;;;''··''''''');·'·.... ',,.,...• /:J)l)lii 1'' '''+jii;il~!!ik'i''ii)iJ)ilil'iiW::ii)@'' you excel at brainstorming and creating breakthrough solutions in a fast-paced environment, find your career at FactSe1:;'<one offotliesi'j200 Best Small Companies" for eight consecutive years. 
,, Ask yourpl~~~ement office f~~more information or go to wwwJactsetcom/careers. 
Visit us on campus:, Information session -Thursday, November 9 Interviews-Friday, November 10 
.,,"····,""'"".,...""..,....... t-AcrsEt 
Transforming Information Into 1'i:\e t li g e n ce 

small-company big-company

i l·.· 
_.:: 

Who says you have to choose? 
The Johnson &Johnson Family of Companies, the world's most comprehensive and broadly based manufacturer of health care products, will be visiting your campus. Come discover how our small-company environments, combined with our big-company impact, can open the door to a world of career opportunities. 
Look deeper at the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies. 
find more 
jnj.com/careers
University of Notre Dame 
Johnson & Johnson Presentation 
Come learn about opportunities that may be available in: Business, MIS, CAPP, Computer Science, Science, Engineering, Finance, Accountancy, and Economics. 
Date/Time: September 11, 2006, 5:30 PM Location: McKenna Hall Auditorium 
Johnson & Johnson Services, lnc. is a member C Johnson & Johnson Services, Inc. 2006. Johnson & Johnson companies are equal opportunity employers. of the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies. SMAll~COMPANY ENVIRONMENT/BIG-COMPANY IMPACT is a re-gistered trademark of Johnson & Johnson. 
page 7 Monday, September 11 , 2006 

Quality, Service and Reliability. These three simple words are the cornerstone of a business philosophy which has pro­pelled the A.P. Moller-Maersk Group to its leadership position in today's global business arena. In the United States, the Maersk Inc. Group of companies proudly continues the voyage that began in 1904. 
Today, we are uniquely positioned to offer tomorrow's leaders challenging, growth-oriented career opportunities in a wide 
range of disciplines including Accounting & Finance, Customer Service, Entry-Level Management, Logistics, Sales, 
Transportation Operations, and many others. 
We are seeking career-oriented, dedicated individuals who can help us chart our course for future success with one of the following North American business units: 
APM Terminals North America -part of the global brokerage services, is committed to securing the supply chain terminal operating arm of the A.P. Moller-Maersk Group. As and assuring compliant import and export processes. the world's third·largest terminal operator, APM Terminals has container handling operations at over 40 terminals worldwide Maersk Equipment Service Company-Our including 13 in North America. mission is to continuously provide Maersk Line with the best maintained and safest container equipment in the industry, Bridge Terminal Transport -specializing in while streamlining repair procedures to ensure the most transporting marine containers utilizing Owner/Operators, economical cost structures BTI operates forty-one trucking terminals from coast to coast, and is the largest container carrier company in the Maersk Line-is the world's largest provider of United States. containerized transportation solutions, with a service network that spans six continents and consists of over 325 offices Hudd Distribution Services -the leading source around the world. for customized distribution services. With over 2000 
employees in North America, Hudd Distribution relies on Maersk Line, Limited -an industry leader advanced information technology to optimize efficiency providing maritime services and logistics solutions to the from factory production to end-user delivery. U.S. Government. 
Maersk Customs Services -With increased focus Maersk Logistics -provides customized, global on border protection and worldwide security compliance, supply chain services specifically tailored to each individual Maersk Customs Services, a leading provider of customhouse client's supply chain requirements. 
Maersk offers competitive salaries, outstanding benefits, and a professional work environment designed to enhance your personal and professional career growth. To apply online, or if you would like additional information about specific careers with the Maersk Inc. Group of companies, please visit: 
www.maersk.com 
Go to "Jobs & Careers" (Vacancies)
D MAERSK INC. 
NO PHONE CALLS, PLEASE Equal Opportunity Employer MIFIDN 
-~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----~ 

...----------­
page 8 Monday, September 11 , 2006 
First Meeti11gz Wed11esday Septe1nber 13t Debartolo Rootn 155 

\ \ 

. \ \\
\ . 


/ . \ 

\\ 
~-. \

endless opportunifies fn a family setting \ .

\ ·_ 
___,.-· \\ 
NIBCO is a global ~eader in the manufacture and technology of flow-control products, ·\-'-, and we are looking for enthusiastic talent to join our team! 
We are currently looking to fiH positions for Sa~es Trainees, Human Resources Representatives and Supply Chain Buyers/Planners. 
Your future at NtBCO can be anything you want •t to be, and we will give you the tools you need to be successful in a stimulating work environment. 
Visit the NJBCO booth at the Notre Dame Career Fatr on September 13th and talk to the NJBCO team about the endless opportunities in a famay setting. 



page 9 Monday, September 11 , 2006 
Fall 2006 Career Expo-Insider 
It's true, and my rec career fair to submit your 
You can 

Or, you can work 
• Product 
• Accountin 
• 
,. 

at Notre Dame's stop by and sent you! 
r 

rogram 
, D.C. as a: 
alyst 
Trainee 

L'ife at Lilly 
~"~?!1:! ;;•N::c:;c;1? dcung t:•x!t t!ti!{;~'~ 
Eli Lilly &Co. 
lnfc,rm.!ltion :Se~irm C~reer~ itt Fllr~ lfCe 
ALL m-ajor-s welcome! 
Thur~~)'. :Sept~mb~r 14, 2:(!Cfl 
CCE McKenru~ Hall 
Room ZC2 t):CO PM -I:CC PM 
Lilly i!!looking for :SernH:.r!! irnterese:d irn Fuil Time Firu~rnce Po5it: icrn!18 nd 
Jt.u'ltor!l interesed in 
CorporBte FiMnce 
Imerrn!l hip!!. 
P~iti>:m informaitln w.~ilab ~ on ·oo !RtSH · 


-· 
page 11 Monday, September 11 , 2006 
Hewlett-Packard  *  ....  *  ....  
Hillstone Restaurant Group Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin  *  *  *  *  ....  

....  ....  
Huron Consulting Group  *  *  ....  
IBM  *  *  
Indiana INTERNnet  *  *  
lnfosys Technologies  *  *  
Japan Information Center  ....  ....  
Johnson & Johnson  ....  *  ....  
Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions Kellogg Company  *  ,..  ....  
*  *  *  
Kirkland & Ellis  *  ,..  
KPMG  *  ....  ....  ....  
LaSalle Bank  ,..  ....  
Liberty Mutual Insurance Group  *  *  *  
LightPoint Capital Management  *  ....  
Lincoln International  *  *  
Liz Claiborne  ....  *  *  *  *  
Maersk, Inc.  *  *  *  ....  
Marine Corps Officer Proqrams  ....  1"  ....  
McGiadrey & Pullen  ....  ....  ....  *  
Morgan Stanley  *  *  
Morningstar  *  *  *  
National City Corporation  ....  ....  
Navigant Consulting  ....  ....  
News America Marketing  *  *  
NIBCO  ....  *  
Northern Trust  ....  *  
Northwestern Mutual Financial Network/The Holter Group  *  ....  ....  *  
Novogradac & Company  *  ....  ....  *  
Ostrow Reisin Berk & Abrams  ....  *  *  
Peace Corps  ....  ....  *  
PepsiCo  ....  ....  
PNC Financial Services  ....  *  *  
PricewaterhouseCoopers  *  *  *  *  
Procter & Gamble  *  *  *  *  *  
Progressive Insurance  *  ....  *  
Protiviti  ....  *  *  
Prudential Capital Group  ....  *  
Pulte Homes  *  - *  
Raytheon  *  *  *  
Robert VV. Baird & Co.  *  *  *  
Rolls-Royce Corporation  *  *  *  
Ryan & Company  ....  *  ....  
Schneider Downs & Co.  ....  *  *  *  
Score  ..  ..  ....  *  
Sears Holdings Corporation  *  *  *  
Silver Point Capital  ...  *  *  ....  
SIRVA  ...  ....  *  
SMART  *  *  *  
Speedway SuperAmerica  *  *  *  
Spot Trading  *  *  *  
SPX Corporation  *  *  *  
Starbucks Coffee Company  *  *  *  ....  
State Farm Insurance  ...  *  ....  ....  
State of Indiana BMV  *  *  ....  
State of Indiana Personnel Department  *  ....  *  ....  
Steve & Barry's University Sportswear  *  ....  *  
Stockman Kast Ryan + Co.  *  *  *  *  
Stout Aisius Ross, Inc.  *  ....  *  
Stryker Instruments  *  ....  ....  ....  
Talbots  *  *  
Target  ....  *  
TATA Consultancy Services  *  *  *  *  *  
Teach for America  *  *  *  ....  
Textron Financial  *  ....  *  
The Bradford Group  *  *  *  ....  
The Kroger Company  *  *  *  *  ....  
Travelers  *  *  *  
UHV Advisors  *  *  *  
Uline  *  ...  *  
Umbaugh  *  ....  *  ....  
University of St. Thomas MBA Program  *  *  ....  
u.s. Probation & Pretrial Services  *  *  *  *  
Vanguard  *  *  *  
Virchow Krause & Company  *  *  *  *  
Volkswagen Credit  *  *  
VVachovia Securities  *  *  
VValareens  *  *  *  
VVealth & Tax Advisory Services  ....  *  ....  
VVhirlpool Corporation  ...  *  *  
VVolverine VVorld VVide  *  *  *  
VVork and Travel Ireland  ....  *  *  
Young Innovations  ....  ...  ...  ....  
Zimmer, Inc.  *  *  *  *  
Zurich North America  *  *  *  


----------, 
page 12 Monday, September 11, 
We believe everyone's more successful in a flexible environment. 
We want you to succeed. That's why we've created an environment that's conducive to 
personal and professional growth and success. At Ernst & Young we're offering an opportunity 
to learn from some of the best talent in the industry. So visit us on campus. or on the Web at 
ey.corrVusjcareers. Whatever's best for you. We're flexible. 
f{)!fltJNF
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~ 
Preparing for Fall Career Expo Workshops 
Monday September 11 
Business Majors: 
5:00 pm in G-20 Flanner Hall 
A&L Majors: 
7:00 pm in G-20 Flanner Hall 


Vanguard' 


Visit us at the 

2006 Student Leader Reception 
Wednesday, September 13, 12:30 p.m. to 2:30p.m., Mendoza Atrium 
Fall Career Expo 
Wednesday, September 13, 4:00p.m. to 8:00p.m., Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
Make an easy transition from college to Vanguard, acompany that invests heavily in talent from all majors. If you're agraduating student interested in rotating through adivision of the company, consider our specialty programs in management, finance, information technology, or client relations. Or take on arewarding, team-oriented associate position in client relations, finance 
or processing. If you're still in school, explore our paid  
summer business or IT internship program, which could  FORTUNE.  
lead to full-time employment. No matter which path you  100 BEST  
COMPANIES~  
choose, exceptional opportunities begin at Vanguard.  TO WORK FOR~  

I'  - 
I  
'  
'  
'  
'  
'  
'  
'  
.  ~  



rou 
SEPT. 13 SEPT. 21 
Fall Career Expo 2006 Engineering Industry 
-Technology Day 2006-Technology Joyce Center Fieldhouse Joyce Center Fieldhouse 4:00p.m. to 8:00p.m. 4:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. 
Be a part of a team that reinvents technology solutions for a world leader in financial solutions. 
Majors: 
CIT, CS, MIS, IM, CE 
page 14 Monday, September 11 , 
Fall 2006 Career Expo Insider 
Preparing for Fall Career 
Expo Workshops 
Monday September 11 
Business Majors: 
5:00 pm in G-20 Flanner Hall 
A&L Majors: 

7:00 pm in G-20 Flanner Hall 
CORPORATE OPPORTUNITIES @ 

StarbuckS® revolutionized coffee. Costco® revolutionized wholesale. 

iPod® revolutionized music. 
JOIN US AS WE REVOLUTIONIZE RETAIL! 
Conglomerates didn't transform coffee. Companies didn't transform wholesale. Corporations didn'ttransform music. 
MOTIVATED COLLEGE GRADS OF ALL FIELDS AND MAJORS WERE THE CATALYST FOR CHANGE! 
Help us continue our unprecedented growth. 
Hey Fighting Irish-Join Us!! 
VISIT USAT THE CAREER FAIR: 9/13 On Campus Interviews: 9/14 
Questions? campus@steveandbarrys.com www.steveandbarcys.com 
Starbucks® is a federally registered trademark ofStarbucks US Brands, LLC Limited Partnership Costco® is a federally registeredtrademark ofCostco Wholesale Membership, Inc. iPod® is a federally registered trademark ofAppie Computer, Inc. Starbucks ®, Costco ®, iPod ®have not endorsed this advertisement or Steve & Barry's University Sportswear 

Whirlpool Corporation is excited to once again recruit talented students on the campus of the University of Notre Dame. We will be at your Fall Career Expo recruiting for positions within: 
• 
Finance 


• 
Information Systems 

• 
Marketing/Sales 


We look forward to meeting you and discussing our exciting career opportunities. For more information please visit: www.Whirlpoolcareers.com 
page 15 Monday, September 11 , 
Fall 2006 Career Expo Insider 

in our College Graduates In Training (CGIT) program--an elite, fast-track road to a management position within our company. The CGIT program is not about being a passen­ger; it's about steering your way through a comprehensive 18-month immersion into significant operational depart­ments within VCI and either the Volkswagen or Audi Brands. CGIT candidates will gain hands-on experience, while preparing for a permanent position upon successful completion of the program. 
If you are unable to apply in person, send your resume via email to: wendy.murphy@vwcredit.com or fax: 847-371-4015. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/D/V. 
Lec:~ders VV~n"ted. 
INC:@ND was created to support students \vho are imeresred in obtaining in­ternships and ulri­matdv full-time errmlovrnent in the' . :-~tate of lndiana upon graduation "n ·l r·l·' ~ ,., . L ..d;; t·n1'1't)'"'•rs·; ·~·''' ,·c.. ,,&. ,I looking to hire them. Let Indiana Careers help you in your Indiana job or internship search! For additional details contact: Indiana Careers @Notre Dame 248 Planner Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 Phone: 631-2964 Email: indianacareers@nd.edu Web: IndianaCarecrs.nd.edu  Two programs are available to support students who take internships or full­time professional positions in Indiana. Internship Stipends targeting Notre Dame Juniors-$188,000 has been awarded to students over the past 2 summers! Students accepting a qualified internship in Indiana can ap­ply to receive an additional bonus for their summer intern­ship experience! The stipend is based upon the salary being paid by their internship employer: $1.00-6.50/hour =$2,000 stipend $6.51-12.00/hour =$1,500 stipend $12.01-17.99/hour =$1,000 stipend $18.00 and more =$500 stipend Unpaid internships =$3,000 Criteria for a qualified internship include: 30-40 hours per week 10-12 weeks over the summer The position is related to the student's field of study and consistent with their level of education Stipends are awarded on a rolling basis by INC@ND as long as funding is still available. Contact INC@ND early!  'I N1( ., /"'·, N1l.., . l • -(~Yi , J ()vcr $512;000.00 rus been !(' ';(...(.'"]" ..,.1h> n,.,..... ,f !')'·"'~' ... J ... ..i.~C''··· , ..... t'"'" 2 ye:1rs. \\'c ate also here tn help -.-:-ry~-: \\l~0·h ·:··yn"l'" ·rP?F-.)<1·) ~ .. 1""'1 .·~ ·.H~t;j~·hly''" ,.., L ..... :ccrJ. .Lh.Uc , ' 1Uf./ '>L£<. \..,;,,,; Full-Time Award Program for graduating students in any college that pays $375.00 per month for 2 years when you work in a full-time professional position in Indi­ana. 36 students in the past two years have received the award totaling $324,000 over two years. If you are contemplating employment in Indiana make sure you apply before March 1, 2007. You don't need to have a job to ap­p$_ Students are selected based on the fol­lowing criteria • Internship Experiences Application & Essay • Personal Interview • Faculty Reference • Notre Dame GPA • Community Involvement while at ND • Extracurricular activities while at ND • Leadership positions held while at ND  In their own words... I am very grateful for the money I am receiving. If it wasn't for Indiana Careers, I would not have been able to take this internship which I feel has been a very valuable experience thus far by not only giving me real-life experience in the career I would like to go into, but also in assur­ing me that this really is the type of work I want to go into after graduating from Notre Dame. -Coleen I would like to personally thank the INC@ND Ad­missions committee for choosing me as a recipient of the Indiana Careers Award. It is both a pleas­ure and an honor to be recognized among count­less outstanding and de­serving students at the University. 1am sure that \\~th this assistance I can contribute to the better­ment of the state of Indi­ana and uphold the expec­rations of the University and the program. -Tricia  

page 16 Monday, September 11 , 2006 
~ 
The most exciting opportunities on Wall Street aren't always on Wall Street. 
The middle market is a vibrant and dynamic place with plenty ofinvestment banking career opportunities. Harris Williams & Co. is one of the largest mergers and acquisitions advisory firms in the country focused exclusively on the middle market, and our success, reputation, and people arc why we were named Investment Bank ofthe Year in 2005. At Harris Williams & Co., you'll be in the middle of this exciting market, learning from the best. You'll be actively involved in multiple live M&A engagements with the opportunity to make an immediate impact on your transactions. With a history of success and a client roster that includes the finest privare equity groups and corporations worldwide, Harris Williams & Co. is poised to take advantage ofits momentum. Ifyou have a proven track record ofexcellence in and out ofthe classroom and want to be a part ofa growing investment banking firm with a highly motivated, universally talented team, come talk to us. 
Named Investment Bank of the Year by Buyouts Magazine in 2005" 
RECRUITING NOTRE DAME SENIORS 
FOR INVESTMENT BANKING ANALYST POSITIONS 
lmponant dates at Notte Dame: Ifyou have any questions contact: 
Company Presentation Matt Hancolak '04 
Tuesday, September 12,2006 Notre Dame Recruiting Captain, 804-915-0153 6:00-8:00pm in the ContinuingEdUCation Center, mhanculak@harriswilliams.com Rooml12 
JaymeJamieson '06 Business Career Fair Notre Dame: Recruiting Captain, 804-932-1329 Wednesday, September 13, 2006 jjamieson@harriswiJliams.com 4:00-8:00pm in theJoyce Ccnttt 
Jennie Parker Garofalo Resume Drop Date Recruiting Director, 804-648-0072 Monday, September 18, 2006 jgarofalo@harriswilliams.com 
On-Campus Interview Date 

For more on Harris Williams & Co., Friday, Sc:ptc:mbc:r 29, 2006 
please visit '1\"ww.harriswilliams.com. 
HarrisWilliams&Co. 
middle market· 
'f 
RKhmond Sm fn:cci:sco Bo5.r:oo Phibddphu MinMapoli' 
Techuolol'y ltisk Jmerual Audi1· 

RISK 
AND WHY PROTIVITI IS 
THE BEST PLACE TO EXPLORE 
YOUR POTENTIAL 
A
t Protiviti we are focused on managing risk to achieve potential. This applies to our clients and our employees. We see risk as an opportunity to improve. To work with Global 500 firms around the world to grow their business. To help our employees grow professionally and personally. So if you are looking to fully explore your potential, we believe that the only risk not to consider is working somewhere other than Protiviti. 
Check on-line at .tJOUr univ£r.rity career centerjiJr available job opportunitie.•· at l+otiviti. 
P[2!.!XI!J. 
Know Risk. Know Reward_.,, 



With more than 150 years of business experience, Travelers is proud to be the leading provider of commercial and consumer insurance. As a pub­licly traded company-and number 85 on the Fortune 500 Jist of Largest U.S. Companies-our national workforce diligently serves consumers and businesses through one of America's largest networks of independent insurance agents, brokers and other distribu­tion channels. We have representatives in every U.S. state, as well as Canada, Mexico, Ireland, and the U.K. And we only look to expand and progress even further. 
We're interested in free thinking, no holds-barred, motivated individuals with leadership qualities, strong analytical skills and the ability to communicate effectively and clearly for our national opportunities. 
We have rewarding Leadership Development opportunities in the areas of Actuarial Science, Finance, Human Resources, and Information Technology. They provide development courses, rotational assignments, mentoring, and full-time pro­gram staff. 
Additional development programs include Claim, Environmental Claim, Catastrophe Claim, Product Management, Information Technology, Finance, Premium Audit, Fixed Income, Research and Underwriting. These programs have formal paid training, as well as mentoring to provide career guidance. 
We also offer formal Summer Intern opportunities in IT, Actuarial, Finance and Underwriting, Human Resources, Investments, and Product Management. These highly competitive programs attract talented and motivated students. 
For more information, click on Students and New Graduates on our homepage at www.travelers.com or contact us at college@travelers.com 
if TRAVELERS 
Insurance. ln-synch:M 
page 17 Monday, September 11 , 2006 
Fall 2006 Career Expo Insider 
A One-of-a-Kind Place to Work 
Morningstar is a leading provider of  For more information please attend the  
investment research. Our mission is to create  Fall Career Expo on Wednesday,  
great products that help investors reach  September 13 in the Joyce Center, or log  
their financial goals. We seek hardworking,  onto http://corporate.morningstar.com.  
enthusiastic people who are interested in  
an environment that fosters an entrepreneurial  
spirit, allows employees to advance based  
on performance, and rewards them for helping  
Morningstar thrive.  
MnRNINGSTAR®  

Morningstar is an equal opportunity ernployer. 

page 18 Monday, September 11 , 
Fall 2006 Career Expo Insider 

ACE is proud to join the Career Center in the Fall Career Expo. 
Applications become available on October 1. Click on http://ace.nd.edu to start yours! 
Join us tor ACE Kickoff Night. Oct. 3. Legends 7:oopm 
Silver Polm Capital, LP is a Greenwich, CT multi-strategy credit opportunity fund, specializing in credit analysis and credit-related investments. Formed in early 2002, our assets under management total approximately $6 billion. With the continued growth of our firm, we are currently seeking individuals to join the Silver Point Administration team, a group currently responsible for managing the accounting, operational and tax mauers for a portfolio of diverse assets. 
Operations Associate & Fund Accountant 
In this key role you will manage all accounting, operations, tax and financial aspects of various financing programs. In addition, you will also be responsible for daily cash and position reconciliation, preparing periodic reporting requirements, collateral management, annual audits & tax preparation, daily profit/loss review and determining the effects ofcorporate actions within the portfolio. 
Loan Administrator 
In this multifaceted position you will process security-specific transactions (borrowings, paydowns, interest payments) and trade setdemems in the internal portfolio management system. Additionally, selected candidate will reconcile investments with external agent documentation and cash transactions/ positions with counter parries and external vendors. You will also assist in developing internal controls and software enhancements for bank loan products and be a liaison with internal team members and third parry software providers. 
The ideal candidate for either position will have excellent communication and interpersonal skills and the ability w thrive in a challenging, ream­oriented environment. All candidates will gain an understanding of the portfolio accounting, tax, and management reporting ~ystern by rotating from one position to the other for a period oftirne . 
.As you would expect, Silver Point Capital offers a competitive salary, including a discretionary bonus, along with a comprehensive benefits package and a 40 1 (k). Visit us at the Career Fair or apply on GO Irish by October 2nd. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Preparing for Fall Career Expo Workshops 
Monday September 11 
Business Majors: 
5:00 pm in G-20 Flanner Hall 
A&L Majors: 
7:00 pm in G-20 Flanner Hall 
page 19 Monday, September 11 , 
Fall 2006 Career Expo Insider 
Preparing for Fall Career Expo Workshops 
Monday September 11 
Business Majors: 
5:00 pm in G-20 Flanner Hall 
A&L Majors: 

7:00 pm in G-20 Flanner Hall 

.. 
Ready for a floodtide of career opportunities? Then you're ready for a career at KPMG. We're the Big Four audit, advisory, and tax firm with the strongest growth record over the past decade. And we're always looking for the next wave of talented newcomers. Including you. For more information on career opportunities at KPMG, please contact Christina Wiley, Campus Development Manager at: cwiley@kpmg.com or call 312-665-1000. Then dive right in. 

Specialized Business Consulting 
FTI is a premier provider of problem-solving consulting and technology services to major corporations, financial institutions and law firms confronting critical issues that shape their future and the future of their clients, such as financial and operational improvement, major litigation, mergers and acquisitions, regulatory issues as well as strategy and execution. 
Corporate Finance 
•

Economic Consulting
•

Forensic and Litigation Consulting 
•

Technology 

T

www.fticonsulting.com 
ANNAPOliS ATlANTA BALTIMORE BOSTON CHARLOTTE CHICAGO CLEVELAND DALLAS DENVER HOUSTON INDIANAPOLIS KING OF PRUSSIA lOS ANGELES NASHVIllE NEW YORK PHilADELPHIA PHOENIX PITTSBURGH SADDLE BROOK SAI.T I.AKE CITY SAN FRANCISCO SAN JOSE SEATTLE TUCSON WASHINGTON DC LONDON BEijiNG/SHANGHAI HONG KONG MELBOURNE SINGAPORE TOKYO 


... 
--~---~-·~--------~~~--~---------~-· 
page 20 Monday, September 11 , 2006 


.­1 I 
t 
--· 
.... 
... 

~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
Mendoza College of Business 
2006 
LEA RECEPT ON ***** 


September l 3, 2006 
Special thanks to those organizations who helped to make this event possible: 
PLATINUM SPONSORS 
i!J ERNST&YOUNG Goldman
IJ,, Crowe Deloitte~~ Quality In Everything We Do CD follett Sadls
14 I G H £ R ( D U (AT I 0 H G R 0 U r 



PNC 
SMART~ 
The PNC Financial Servict'$ Group The Intelligent Choice. TARGET. 


GOLD SPONSORS 

~Libertv
Baxter 
Huren 
COI'iSi.JlJING CiHOl.»'' 

\P i\1utuaL 
STPAUL
N,AVIGANT 

TRAVELERS 
VirchoWKrause
CONSULTING 
&:company 

SILVER SPONSORS 
A.G. Edwards • Aon Corporation • BP • Countrywide Financial • Credit Suisse • Eli Lilly and Company 
FTI Consulting • Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin • Raytheon • SIRVA, Inc. • State Farm Insurance • Textron Financial Northwestern Mutual Financial Network/The Holter Group • Walgreens • Wealth &Tax Advisory Services 
' 

L ' ' ­






