----~--------~~--------------------------------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Domers defend dorm life at Notre Dame 

S-tudents offer praise for residence hall system, but admit drawbacks to all-inclusive living 
Are Students Satisfied with ND's Residence Hall Systern? Nearly one-fifth of all undergraduate students opt to live in off-campus apartments or houses-a percentage that has risen slowly over time. Despite a 2 percent increase, numbers have remained more or less constant in recent years. 
20 
19 
18 
17 
16 

N= =N 

Information compiled from the 2005 Univenity of Notre Dame Fact Book. Data was recorded during the fall semester of each year. 
MATI HUDSON/Observer Graphic 

By KATIE PERRY 
Assistant News Editor 
Editor's Note: This is the last of a three-part series examining the absence of fraternities and sororities at Notre Dame. 
At a Nov. 16 Student Senate meeting, Zahm Hall's representative pro­posed a resolution that would formally recognize the dorm as "Zahm House" -a move that invoked laughter before its failure to garner enough support among voters. 
Zahm senator Pat Knapp alluded to other dorms ­like Morrissey Manor and Sorin College -that have dropped the "Hall" in their names, asserting that "such names and cultures build community among the student body." 
Student body president Dave Baron supported the resolution. Praising Zahm's uniqueness on campus, he said he had no problem with the proposal because it "foster[ed] dorm 
identity." 
But Dillon senator Dan Bowen opposed the resolu­tion and said Zahm was "trying to leave the impression they're a fra­ternity." Such a claim would be "very contrary" to Notre Dame tradition and policy, he said. 
A chance for change? 
Zahm residents may or may not have intended to blur the lines of distinction between residence hall and fraternity, but their motion demonstrated the desire some students have for an officially recognized Greek system at Notre Dame. 
Keough freshman E.J. Alston expressed dissatis­faction with the current residence hall system and said he wished University policy permitted fraterni­ties and sororities. 
"I think having a Greek life would boost the social scene on campus and make it more fun," Alston said. "If there was a Greek 
see DORMS/page 8 


Top: Courtesy of www.nd.edu/-alumh. Bottom: Observer file photo Above, Alumni Hall displays a "Delta-Omega-Gamma" sign in the manner of frats as a symbol of unity. Below, teams com­pete for dorm pride in the Keough Chariot Race. 


Changes to CWIL funding policy spark student reaction 
Seville this summer. Grants and grants for study sors and the application process, trators confused. CWIL coordina­
By KATIE KOHLER 

They intended to use funds abroad programs. This year, she was given the impression that tor Elaine Meyer-Lee expressed
News Writer 

acquired through Center for CWIL awarded a little more than almost 75 percent of the funding concern for the dissatisfaction of Women's Intercultural $70,000 in individual student would be covered by the organi­the students receiving the money. 
After studying abroad in Leadership (CWIL) grants to com­grants, thanks to the Lilly zation. She said she was surprised by Seville, Spain, Saint Mary's jun­plete the abroad portion. But Endowment Fund. "I don't know how [CWIL] ana­their disappointment. iors Natalie Kachurek and Megan their plans fell through after they But there has been a dispute lyze[s] the numbers, but it is pret­"CWIL at Saint Mary's donates Fricano wanted nothing more did not receive enough money to over how this year's funds were ty much impossible for me or my more money than another other than a chance to return to their make the trip possible. allotted. This controversy has led family to magically come up with school," she said. "CWIL bends new "home." The two were over­Each year, Saint Mary's CWIL some students -like Kachurek multiple thousands of dollars to over backwards to be fair with joyed at the thought of receiving offers "mini grants" to students to and Fricano -to abandon their spare," Kachurek said. "We the funds." a grant to complete a project cen­support intercultural leaning and projects completely. thought that CWIL would help Students on the receiving end tered on teaching English to study on campus. The types of Kachurek knew CWIL would make this doable for us." of the funding expressed their Hispanic immigrants to the student grants are Individual not fund the project completely, The dispute, however, has left United States after teaching in Student Intercultural Learning but said after meetings with advi-both students and CWIL adminis-see CWIL/page 9 
SMC ceretnony honors professor 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
More than one hundred Saint Mary's students, faculty and adminis­trators came together Thursday night to honor an educator who dis­plays immense loyalty and dedication to the College's community ­accounting professor Mary Ann Merryman. 
"There are so many amazing women on this campus," Merryman said. "And I am so humbled to receive this award, especially from students who I hold so dear to my heart." 
Merryman was one of three nomi­nees honored at the fourth annual 
see AWARD/page 4 




Event promotes Asian American awareness 
By MAUREEN MULLEN 
News Writer 
A full slate of lectures and dis­cussions focusing on the theme "Voices of Modern Asian America" will attempt to draw students together at Notre Dame's 2006 InFocus conference today and Saturday. 
The keynote speakers for this year's conference include Emily Liu, a 1994 Notre Dame graduate and successful actress who recently formed her own produc­tion company, Roger D. Huang, chairperson of the department of finance at the Mendoza College of Business, and Eric Liu, an Asian American author who served as a speechwriter for President Clinton and who was named in 2002 as one of the 100 Global Leaders of Tomorrow by the World Economic Forum. 

Along with Emily Liu, Huang and Eric Liu, a number of other invited guests as well as Notre Dame faculty members will par­ticipate in the conference, said John Paul Lichon, student chair for the hospitality committee. 
While promoting an apprecia­
see INFOCUS/page 4 
Friday, March 24, 2006 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Beast of burden 
What would happen.if nothing mattered'? What if. like Peter c;ibbons from Office Space, we all just stopped caring? Let me put it this way. Imagine life without work: days gone just lying on the beach, or watch­ing television, or simply doing noth­ing. llow bnautiful would that be, just to relax all the time, eating wlwn hungry and sleep­ing whenever you 


Dusty
f'nel like it ... Well, 
Mennella
I've been thinking 
about it for a 
while now, and Photo Editor 
I've decided I 
don't think I 
would reallly like that. Like the sat­
isfied feeling you get after a good 
workout, fldaxation is made better 
by all tlw l'l'f'ort we put into every­
day life, be il homework, jobs, 
activities --anything really. 
So imagine it was true: nothing matters. That test you're worried about or homework you're doing­no worries. It won't matter in the long run. We all end up the same, so why care? I realized that if I start thinking that way now, all that I have done with my life up to this point will mean nothing as well. And I've spent a lot of energy throughout my life to get to where I am now, it would be a shame to think none of it was ever worth anything. It's as if I've carried a huge rock down a road so far that if I wcrn to put it down before I get to where I'm going, then why did I piek it up in the first place? All I have now when I reach my destina­tion is a sore back and no rock to show for il.. Why I wanted a rock in theJirst. place is a whole other issue ... Maybe I was going to see a geologist, who knows? 
What got me started thinking about this topic was a passage from a strange philosophy book I have, describing a fictional conver­sation God has with himself. In the passage, Cod ponders the fact that he sent a message to free humankind, yet they chose to ignore this message and continue shouldering their burdens. 
My first reaetion was to wonder what message could God be send­ing to free us from something so universal as burden? And also, how did burdens get such a bad reputa­tion in the first place? Adaptation is one of' the greatest abilities of human beings, and without hard­ship we wouldn't have anything to adapt to. 
The rocks we carry around make life interesting-without any trou­bles, thorn can be no victories. An old swim coach of mine often said, "Winners are only as great as the competitors they defeat," and the same applies to burdens. A per­son's greatness is measured by the magnitude of the burdens they overcome. 
Contact Dusty Mennella at 
dmennell@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
~~ORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. w~ do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT GETTING ENGAGED WHILE STILL IN COLLEGE? 



Juan Carlos Rivera John Park Megan LaDriere Sarah Van Mill Catherine Martinez Mark Langhans 
freshman senior freshman . freshman freshman freshman Zahm Zahm Cavanaugh Cavanaugh Cavanaugh Dillon 
"All I have to ''I'm engaged "Only ifit's not "Only ifit's one "Only ifit's not "Engagement is 
say is Ichiro!" on the her.f" ofthese two!" Facebook. Does that count?" 


JENNIFER KANGfThe Observer 
At the entrance of North Dining Hall, freshman Lauren Wlckel sells a ticket Thursday to the Class of 2009 Charity Ball, sponsored by Freshman Class Council. 
OFFBEAT 
Alligator knocks on Fla. woman's door 
BONITA SPHINGS, Fla. ­So now the alligators are going door to door. When Lori Pachelli heard some­one knocking at the door of her home in a gated com­munity in this southwest Florida community earlier this week, she looked out to see an unwelcome visi­tor on her front stoop: an 8-foot alligator. 
The bull gator, which had wandered up from the pond behind the house, had a bloody lip from banging its head against the door. 
"He was pretty big, pret-
TODAY a: 
ty aggressive," Pachelli said, adding that the gator may have followed her home from walking her cocker spaniel, Trooper. 
Man catches train, for­gets baby in car 
WASHINGTON-Comm­uters racing to catch the train typically forget things in the ear -keys, wallets, briefcases. But a baby daughter? 
That's what happened Thursday just north of Washington, police say. 
"Dad forgot baby was in the car, parked the car, got on the Metro," said Lucille Baur, a spokeswoman for the Montgomery County, Md., Police Department. 
"I don't know exactly when he got the memory flash, but he was in D.C. when it was the horrible defining moment, 'Oh my goodness, I think I've left my child back in my car,"' Baur said. 
At that point, she said, Jonathan Sander got off the southbound train and onto a northbound one, returning to the Shady Grove Metrorail station about 12 miles north of Washington. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
11.1 
:::1: 

(f (f
~ 
11.1 

3: 
...J 
<
0 
0 
HIGH 40 HIGH 31 HIGH 40 HIGH 46

...I LOW 31 LOW 27 LOW 22 LOW 30 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

her.f" a pretty serious commitment. I'd probably wait until I was more certain of what I wanted to do with my life." 
IN BRIEF 
Dinner at both North Dining Hall and South Dining Hall will be "lighl'i out" tonight from 4:30­7 p.m. to raise awareness of energy usage issues. The ean­dlelit dinners are hosted by Students for Environmental Action. 
The Glee Club will present il'i annual spring concert tonight at 8 p.m. at the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tiekets are $3 fbr studenl'i. 
The Chicago-based country band Strait Southern will per­form tonight at 10 p.m. in Legends. Admission is fme with a NO, SMC or IICC student ID. 
The Northern Indiana Regional Science and Engineering Fair will take place Saturday at Stepan Center. The event is open to the public at 1 :30 
p.m. and parking is available in the D-2 lot on the north side of campus. 
Anglo-Irish band Flook will perform tonight at 8 p.m. at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The Notre Dame Ultimate Club will host its annual tournament this Saturday and Sunday. Games on both days start at 9 
a:m. Saturday games will be played on McGlinn and Stepan fields. Sunday games will be held at Stepan fields. 
The No. 11 ·Irish men's lacrosse team will face off with Dartmouth 12 p.m. Sunday at Moose Krause Stadium at Notre Dame. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 53 HIGH 
42 

LOW 35 LOW 
30 

Atlanta 50 I 35 Boston 43 I 34 Chicago 391 27 Denver 47 I 21 Houston 63 I 36 Los Angeles 74 I 52 Minneapolis 35 I 24 New York 44 I 37 Philadelphia 50 I 34 Phoenix 84 I 55 Seattle 54 I 45 St. Louis 44 I 28 Tampa 68 I 55 Washington 49 I 38 
-----~----­

Friday, March 24, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
College to be possessed -with 'Midnight Madness' 
keep our women on our campus on a By COLLEEN KIELTY weekend night. not involving alcohol," 
NewsWrircr 
Kachmarik said. 
The Midnight Madness committee is 
One night ea(:h year, the Angela expecting about 1 ,000 students to Athletic Facility br-~comes a madhouse. attend the event open to all Saint In 2006. that night is tonight. Mary's, Notre Dame and Holy Cross 
Saint Mary's will host its annual students. Midnight Madness event -thcmed "The students are ready and excited, "Oh, What a Mid-Night Madness!" -especially the first years, talking up the tonight with wintor intramurals cham­event among their classmates as well pionship games kicking ofT at 8 p.m. as organizing and preparing decora­with the main event scheduled from 10 tions in their designated class color," 
p.m. to 1:30 a.m. student committee coordinator Ashley 
The event. which is organized by the Enright said. athletic department and a committee of Students are anticipating a night of students, will feature Vice President of fun with friends and classmates. Student AII'airs Linda Timm as its· host. "I didn't go last year, but I heard Then• will also be performances by the from a lot of people that it's a good Saint Mary's chClMleading squad and experience to bond with your class and the senior class board. Free food will have fun," sophomore Mary Esler said. be served throughout the night thanks Class bonding through competitions to donations from Panera Bread, is an important part of the night. .Jimmy John's and Domino's Pizza. Students compete in class competitions 
Participating students can win prizes and receive points for decorations, donated from Saint Mary's and the spirit and participation in games. Each local community, including an Apple class is assigned a different color for iPod, the number one room pick on competitions. This year, freshmen are campus, Saint Mary's rings from orange. sophomores are red and jun­Jostfms and Balfour and many others. iors are purple. The senior class always The grand prize is a one-night stay at wears Saint Mary's blue. The first 50 the Millmmium Knickerbocker hotel in students who arrive from each class downtown Chicago, with complimenta­will receive a free shirt in their class ry breakfast and a $1,000 shopping eolor. sprne. The plan for the night is full of fun, 
According to Athletic Director Lynn spirit and surprises, Kachmarik said. Kachmarik -who started the annual "There is even going to be a great event six years ago -Midnight surprise that the planning committee Madness is held to help bring members does not know about," she said. "Just of the Saint Mary's community together come, have a blast and share in your in a fun way. love for Saint Mary's." · 
"I wanted to start something here that would be all about Saint Mary's Contact Colleen Kielty at spirit and pride ... an event that would ckieltO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



ND symposium examines problem of white privilege 
plines," conference organizer and theolo­By MARCELA BERRIOS gy professor Margaret Pfeil said. 
News Writer 
Pfeil said she hopes this large pool of opinions will contribute to the unmasking 
Discussions about white privilege as a of the elusive white privilege phenome­form of racism in the Catholic Church will non. draw theologians, psychologists and soci­"As a discipline, theology lags far behind ologists to Notre Dame for a three-day . the social sciences in addressing white conference starting Sunday. privilege as a form of racism," Pfeil said. 
The interdisciplinary symposium "White While most other social sciences and Privilege: Implications for the Catholic disciplines have challenged for decades University, the Church, and Theolo.gy" will their own embedded stereotypes and feature speakers from Duke University, power structures of race, Catholic theolo­Loyola University-Chicago, Marquette gians have remained quiet about their University, Wellesley College, Boston approaches to diversifying the frame­College, Xavier College and the University works of their research and academia. of Hawaii. among others. Noting that most of the world's Catholics 
Bishop Dale Melczek from the Homan are non-white, Pfeil stressed the need for Catholic Diocese of Gary, Indiana will also the symposium. speak at the symposium. "As the nation's preeminent Catholic 
Conference speaker Peggy Mcintosh university, [Notre Dame I is in a powerful from the Wellesley College Center for position to make a substantial contribu­Hesearch on Women described the subtle tion to critical thought and transformative effects of this socially-ingrained discrimi­action with regard to white privilege," she nation in her article "Wl1ite Privilege and said. 
· Male Privilege: A Personal Account of In an ell'ort to confront white supremacy Coming to See Correspondences through within the Church. in theological journals Work in Women's Studies," published in and in society, the Symposium will provide the book Critical White Studies. an intellectual forum where scholars and "As a white person. I realized I had been students may discuss the causes of the taught about racism as something that insidiousness of white privilege, the phe­puts others at disadvantage, but had been nomenon's shaping of the context in which taught not to see one of its corollary prominent theologians approach aspects, white privilege, which puts me at Catholicism, and the indirect effects of an advantage," she wrote. these events on the Catholic population, The conference's speakers have back­Pfeil said. grounds in theology, women's studies, The symposium is sponsored by the black studies, peace studies, psychology, department of theology, in conjunction sociology and law. with other University departments and "By organizing the symposium in an organizations. interdisciplinary fashion, we hope to gen­erate more theological discourse through Contact Marcela Berrios at the process of exchange across disci-aberrios@nd.edu 

NOH Gold Room 



Performances include Big Yellow Taxi, the ND Bagpipe Band, and other student groups 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 24, 2006 
Siegfried Hall proudly presents:· 
2006 IER SC LER Mini-Golf Extravaganza. Benefiting ALS Research 



March 25, 2006 9:30pm to 12:30am Stepan Center 
• p 
" 
*Free pizza and subs *T'Vs available for the NCAA games *Win a video iPod, digital camera, iPod Shuftle, and more! 
Award 
continued from page 1 
"Women Honoring Women" award ceremony and dinner. Communications disord11rs pro­fessor Susan Latham and biology professor and pre-profp,ssional studies advisor Nancy Nekvasil were also nominated. 
All three nominees possess a deep passion for their work and for Saint Mary's students, stu­dent body vic11 pr11sident Susan McllduiT said. 
This year, stud11nts nominated more than 70 faculty members to be th11 next recipient of the award. From those submissions, a snlection eommittee then chose the top three nominees. The win­ner was chosen by the Student Academic Council (SAC), which ineludf~s student representatives from each academic major. 
With only one vote diiTcr11nce between each nominne, Merryman was nam11d the win­ner of this year's award. 
"Professor Merryman is truly an exam pie of what faculty should bn," SAC business and economics rPpresentative Anna (;ilsinger said. "Siw goes the extra mile to see her students sucCfH~d and takes a personal interest in each student she teaches." 
Merryman won the award for the tnmwndous care she pro­vides for her students outside of the classroom by attending their extraf:urricular events and incor­porating real life concepts into the elassroom, Gilsinger said. 
McllduiT said the nominees are just a sampling of the many fac­ulty members who contribute so much of themselves. to the bet­terment of the students. 
"The nominees here tonight inspire students, faculty and staff to expand upon their gifts in ways they never thought possi­ble," McllduiT said. 
Both Nekvasil and ·Latham have helped students accomplish their post-graduation dreams by serving as support beams within the graduate and medical school testing and application process. 
Latham, a Saint Mary's gradu­ate, has overseen the extensive growth of a communication dis­orders minor at the College, a program that has led to a 100 percent graduate school accept­ance rate of seniors who wish to pursue a career in the field, SAC communications disorders repre­sentative Dana Christiano said. 
Nekvasil has also gone above and beyond to support students, SAC biology representative Amy Oliva said. During the past two years, 100 percent of College graduates who applied to med­ic<tl school were accepted. 
Students from eaeh academic department, Board of Governanee members, College faeulty and top administrators ­including College President Carol Ann Mooney -were in atten­dance to honor the work of Merryman and the other nomi­nees. 
The annual award ceremony is an important yearly opportunity that allows the College to come together to honor a faculty mem­ber for their dedication to the Saint Mary's community, Mcllduff said. 
"The passion of these nomi­nees is definitely to be admired," she said. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Infocus 
continued from pa~e 1 

tion of and desire for diversity is a goal of Notre Dame's A'iian American Association, Lichon said it is not the most featured aspect of the InFocus confer­ence. 
"Our title this year is 'Voices of Modern Asian America,' and we wanted to discuss ways in which Asian Americans could find their voice and being com­fortable in expressing them­selves," he said. '"'rhe key to this year's conference is pro­moting ways in which Asian Americans can make a difTer­ence in the world, starting with gaining understanding of them­selves and others, helping them to follow their drnams and pas­sions and then focusing on ways in which to express them­selves most· fully within the world." 
But while the program is hosted by the A'iian American Association and centers on issues of A'iian heritage, identi­ty and culture, it is Lichon's hope that non-Asian students elect to attend conference events as wnll. 
"The audience has been in past years, mostly Asian," he said. "We defmitely would like students who are not Asian [to] attend. I've found though that it's hard to market to all stu­dents. Even some of my own friends lind it dillicult to attend to attend the conference because it is an Asian American A'isociation event." 
With this in mind, the organ­izers of InFocus 2006 made an attempt to spread a welcoming word across eampus. 
"We made a better effort this year to spread news about the conference by word of mouth," he said. "We thought personal invitations would be the best way to get other students to attend the conference. This is actually one of the specific ways we tried to target the non-Asian American popula­tion." 
InFocus began in 2002 as a 
medium for A s i a n American awareness, said Paul Nguyen and Linh Tu, co­chairs of the organizing committee for the event. Each year, the conference invites a select group of A'iian Americans accomplished in a variety of professional 'fields to deliver 

Iecturns and participate in panel discussions on campus. 
InFocus, organized by stu­dent members of Notre Dame's Asian American Association, also provides student involve­ment opportunities through the workshops, all of which are conducted by student planning committees. The conference presents a forum for Notre Dame students to interact with and listen to these featured guests and gives the Notre Dame student community an opportunity to come together in striving for diversity, Nguyen and Tu said. 
"The key to this year's conference is promoting ways in which Asian Americans can make a difference in the world. starting with gaining understanding ofthemselves and others ... " 
John Paul Lichon hospitality committee chair 
"I think one of the best fea­tures of the InFocus Conference is that it's a conference run by students for students," Lichon said. "Students arc involved in 
, every step of the way. All of our workshops are actually run and facilitated by students." 
The conferenee begins with a student panel and dinner tonight but will continue Saturday with featured evenl'i ineluding an address by each of 
The conference will condude with a banquet Saturday evHning. 
Past eonferences have.fea­tured distinguished speakers induding University President Emeritus Father Edward Malloy, Daren Hikio Mooko, director of the A'iian American Hesource Center at Pomona College and a widely recog­nized public mentor to Asian Americans, and Parry Shen, a successful television and film actor, Lichon said. 
Contact Maureen Mullen at mmullenl@nd.edu 
the keynote speakers, a workshop that will address issues of identity for­mation and radal stereo­types, a workshop that diseussns business and science earnHrs and a workshop that centers on issues of activism and social service. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------, 


ORLD & NATION 
Friday, March 24, 2006 CoMrruo FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. and British forces free hostages 
BAGHDAD --U.S. and British forces stormed a house and freed three Christian peace activists Thursday without firing a shot, ending a four-month hostage ordeal that saw an American in the group killed and dumped along a railroad track. 
The U.S. ambassador and the top American military spokesman held out hope the operation on the outskirts of Baghdad could lead to a break in the cap­tivity of American reporter Jill Carroll, a freelance writer for The Christian Science Monitor who was abducted Jan. 7. 
The military spokesman, Maj. Gen. Rick Lynch, said the 8 a.m. rescue of the Briton and two Canadians from a "kidnapping cell" was based on information divulged by a man during interrogation only three hours earlier. The man was captured by 
U.S. forces on Wednesday night. 
Chilean busfound to be unlicensed 
AHICA, Chile -The Chilean government and a Miami-based cruise line distanced themselves Thursday from the operator of a tour bus that plunged down an Andean cliff, killing 12 elderly tourists from New Jersey and Connecticut. 
Celebrity Cruises said Andino Tours, whose white bus tumbled more than 300 feet Wednesday afternoon, wasn't among the agencies it authorizes to run side trips l'or passengers during port stops. It also said the victims made their own arrange­ments to visit a national park. 
Chilean officials said Andino Tours had not yet received official approval and the bus, which had a capacity of 16 passen­gers. wasn't registered to carry tourists. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Prosecutors close Moussaoui case 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. -Prosecutors wrapped up their case for executing Zacarias Moussaoui with a former FBI agent's testimo­ny Thursday that the bureau could have iden­tified 11 of the Sept. 11 hijackers if the al­Qaida conspirator had confessed when he was arrested a month before the suicide attacks. 
Before court-appointed defense attorneys could begill their case, Moussaoui announced loudly as he left for a recess that he would tes­tify in his own behalf. 
"I will testify. Zerkin, whether you want it or not," he said, referring to one of his lawyers, Gerald Zerkin. The 37 -year-old Frenchman, who is the only person charged in this. country in connection with the 2001 attacks, has refused to cooperate with his lawyers. 
Activist under fire for Wal-Mart job 
DECATUR, Ga. -At the grand opening of a Wal-Mart in a black suburb of Atlanta, civil rights leader Andrew Young danced with store clerks, bouncing to the song "We Are Family." 
Young took part in the pep rally in his new position as a paid corporate cheerleader for Wal-Mart -a role that has perplexed some of his longtime civil rights colleagues, who have all but accused him of going over to the enemy. 
Activists for the poor have long complained that Wal-Mart skimps on wages and health ben­efits, forces employees to work ofT the clock, and kills oiTmom-and-pop businesses. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Gary mayor resigning after II years 
GARY -Scott King, who left the Democratic Party in April 2005 and declared himself an independent, announced today he is resigning as mayor of Gary after 11 years in office. 
King's resignation comes three days after he appointed former Calumet Township Trustee Dozier Allen Jr. as deputy mayor, spurring speculation that King would resign. 
The move leaves Allen, who ran for mayor in the Democratic primary in 1975 against Richard Hatcher, as interim mayor. 
JAMAICA 
Deadly fire strikes cruise ship 
Cigarette starts tragedy in the ·caribbean, leaves one dead and eleven injured 
Associated Press 
MONTEGO BAY -A fire apparently started by a cigarette spread smoke 
·through a cruise ship in the Caribbean early Thursday, killing an American, injuring 11 other people and damag­ing about 150 cabins, offi­cials said. 
The Star Princess was en route from Grand Cayman to Jamaica when the blaze started at about 3 a.m., according to a statement from Princess Cruises, which is owned by Miami-based Carnival Corp. 
Richard Liffidge, 75, of Georgia, collapsed and died on deck, said Karl Angell, communications director for the Jamaica Constabulary Force. The victim's wife was taken to a hospital in Montego Bay. 
Two passengers suffered "significant smoke inhala­tion injuries" and nine others had "minor compli­cations," the cruise com­pany said in a statement. Two people were hospital­ized in Montego Bay and two others were being treated in the ship's clinic, Jamaica's disaster office said. 
Horace Peterkin, presi­
-dent of the Jamaica Hotel and Tourist Association, toured the scorched ship moved to two hotels in Montego Bay just before Because the Star after it docked in Jamaica nearby Negri! and Ocho noon. No smoke was seen Princess carries a and said crew members Rios. The cruise ship com­coming from the vessel as Bermuda flag, the lead told him the fire appar­pany was arranging to fly rescue personnel boarded. investigative agency will ently started on a cabin other passengers home, All passengers remained be Britain's Marine balcony. A cigarette was he said. on the ship and some_ Accident Investigation suspected of causing the The ship was not seri­were seen milling on the Branch, but the Coast fire, which damaged ously damaged and will decks. Guard will "participate as about 150 cabins, sail back to Fort The starboard side of a substantially interested Peterkin told The Lauderdale on Friday, the ship, which faced state," Judge said. Associated Press. Peterkin said. There was dockside, showed no dam­The Coast Guard regu­
The ship was carrying no immediate confirma­age. But dozens of cabins larly inspects all cruise 2,690 passengers and tion from cruise line offi­on the other side ships that embark U.S. 1,123 crew members. The cials. appeared to be charred. passengers. The Star Princess Cruises Web site Star Princess sailed The U.S. Coast Guard Princess was last inspect­said the Star Princess has from Fort Lauderdale on dispatched investigators ed on Oct. 25, 2005, in more than 700 balcony March 19. and fire engineers to he~p San Juan, Puerto Rico, staterooms and four "The ship is seaworthy," in the probe, Coast Guard and had "no outstanding pools. Peterkin said. "They'll sail Petty Officer James Judge discrepancies," Judge 
Peterkin said 550 pas­out tomorrow.'~ said in Miami. said. That included a suc­sengers whose cabins The fire-blackened Star "Our No. 1 concern right cessful fire drill and aban­were damaged will be Princess docked in now is safety," Juqge said. don-ship drill. 


U.S. seeks help in scanning nukes 
Associated Press  from the U.S. coast, where cargo would be likely to be inspected again.  ports to safeguard cargo headed to the United States.  
WASHINGTON - In the aftermath  The contract is currently being final­ Hutchison Whampoa is the world's  
of the Dubai ports dispute, the Bush  ized.  largest ports operator and among the  
administration is hiring a Hong Kong  The administration is negotiating a  industry's most-respected companies.  
conglomerate to help detect nuclear  second no-bid contract for a Philippine  It was an early adopter of U.S. anti­ 
materials  inside  cargo  passing  company to install radiation detectors  terror measures. But its billionaire  
through the Bahamas to the United  in its home country, according to doc­ chairman, Li Ka-Shing, also has sub­ 
States and elsewhere.  uments obtained by The Associated  stantial business ties to China's gov­ 
The administration acknowledges  Press. At dozens of other overseas  ernment that have raised U.S. con­ 
the no-bid contract with Hutchison  ports, foreign governments are prima­ cerns over the years.  
Whampoa Ltd. represents the first  rily responsible for scanning cargo.  "Li Ka-Shing is pretty close to a lot  
time  a  foreign  company will be  While George W. Bush recently reas­ of senior leaders of the Chinese gov­ 
involved in running a sophisticated  sured Congress that foreigners would  ernment and the Chinese Communist  
U.S. radiation detector at an overseas  not manage security at U.S. ports, the  Party," said Larry M. Wortzel, head of  
port without Ameri<::an customs agents  Hutchison deal in the Bahamas illus-_  a U.S. government commission that  
present.  trates how the administration is rely­ studies China security and economic  
Freeport in the Bahamas is 65 miles  ing on foreign companies at overseas  issues.  

page 6 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday,March 24,2006 

CONSUM(R: Otily '!11U ~lllO~ p~r I!Vrr.fl<l~e Voo flll'lo ~~"'~ te• elldl!llliQOOllll 1fl1'11~ Couponmt~VI1!ll t•D3UiQ<>Gtl tlltf111..•G<J lffltl OlldP'Iod!KH An~ ntt·r.~ tJSt1 (Gfl~::ttllos frQild C311ll v~IIJe> 1/100 o: 1 J fiETAILfR. 1/h will IIUII~~JI"-' yQU l!Jl rill> :~Iilii prK'.t! oltl>t1 qwor.thu~ priJrlur.t plll5 ae hllf'lf:•"'i iliLl,IWJ~t~t;IJ. tl •;ou llflt! uor. cnnwrnC~r l'wlvt~ ~umplii'I\J wnh f.lllt C01JV«t R"dor.tpfY.II•I'aiiCyll't•ll(tWJulll thtt··'Xk!mptt«~<tdd!<».~ MailttiUIK'I'l!o·CMSOept .C900ti,OnQla~tll1~11 
0.1 Roo IX 11Jfl_.l} CASHIFR:~nlltl rwtu•IIJI!Cl.o t;nre. [_J 
¢::tn(lf) l~ CIK'a-r:nt. Cilfi':!J"n¥. "VJ,I.iL;I'; 'VAtJLT .l~~ lhcVAI)! f 1-.~!)'n.~e :ttli;ltlff~<lfks oil hi! Colc!l•Colu (,i>•UPttll':·.~--~J-;·.-, .• ; .::~};'_/"!;~. ~=~ ,_·,;.. ':,~ " _ /. , 

Friday, March 24, 2006 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

11,260.36 -57.07
}ones 
up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,378 152 1,835 1,546,574,540 
-17.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
LEVEL 3 COMM INC (LVLl) +16.57 +0.57 4.01 
JD5 UNIPHASE CP ODSU) -1.52 -0.06 3.90 
NTEL CP (INTC) -1.25 -0.25 19.73 
SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI) 
+4.94 +0.24 5.10 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) -0.39 -0.16 41.05 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +0.77 +0.36 47.39 13-WEEK BILL -0.44 -0.20 45.47 30-YEAR BOND +0.61 +0.29 47.55 5-YEAR NOTE +0.81 +0.38 47.29 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.14 63.91 GOLD ($rrroy oz.) -0.90 550.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +2.13 86.80 
Excha Rates 
YEN 117.9100 
EURO 0.8355 
POUND 0.5763 
CANADIAN$ 
1.16.53 
IN BRIEF 
Companies refuse to split CEO posts 
NEW YORK -Appointing someone other than the CEO to chair a board of directors is hardly a cure-all for corporate mismanagement, but it's dis­appointing to see companies' stubborn resistance to a logical improvement in checks and balances. 
The latest big name to reject a practice that's commonplace in other countries is Citigroup Inc., whose board has chosen chief executive Charles Prince to succeed the retiring Sanford I. Weill as chairman of the financial services conglomerate. 
While Prince is well-regarded for his steady stewardship the past two years, such qualities have limited relevance to the added benefit of a truly independent voice who can ask tough ques­tions of the CEO from a vantage point that's not so intertwined with day-to-day operations. 
This is particularly true for Citigroup, a vast organization that's working to move beyond a series of costly ethical fumbles during Weill's tenure a.c; CEO and chairman. These have included billions of dollars in settlements regarding Citigroup's connections to the Enron and WorldCom scandals, as well as revelations of biased stock recommendations favoring invest­ment banking clients. 
Home sales post unexpected gain 
WASIIINGTON -Sales of existing homes had fallen for five straight months before an unexpected increase in February, helped by unusually warm weather. But slack demand in some formally red-hot housing markets produced what one analyst called a "tale of two cities." 
The National Association of Realtors reported Thursday that sales of existing sin­gle-family homes rose by 5.2 percent last month to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 6.91 million units. 
The biggest increase in two years took economists by surprise. They had expected a drop of about 1 percent after five months of declines. 
One of the economy's standout performers over the past five years, housing has been slowing in recent months. 
Analysts cautioned against reading too much into the February increase, saying it primarily reflected an unusually mild win­ter, which boosted buyer traffic. 

r---------------------------------c---------------­
THE OBSERVER 



USINESS 
page 7 


Stocks slide on oil price jump 
Worries about inflation and strong economic news contribute to Wall Street fall 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Wall Street had a renewed case of interest rate anxiety Thursday, with stocks falling on strong economic news and a jump in oil prices that heightened worries about inflation. 
A 5.2 percent upswing in monthly sales of existing homes eased worries about a slowdown in the housing market but fed fears that the Federal Reserve will continue boosting interest rates to stave off price inflation. The Fed's Open Market Committee meets next week. 
Investors also fretted about a Labor Department report that 302,000 work­ers applied for jobless benefits last week, down 11,000 from the week before and marking the first decline in a inonth. The implied job growth added to Wall Street's inflation and interest rate concerns. 
The unemployment numbers "increase the probability the Fed will make its way back to 5 percent," said Robert Tipp, chief investment strategist for Prudential Fixed Income. The nation's benchmark interest rate currently stands at 4.5 percent. yield on the 10-year Crude oil futures surged the Fed is going to keep 
The Dow Jones industri­Treasury note rising to to near $64 ·per barrel on going on rates," said al average fell 47.14, or 4.74 percent from 4.70 news that U.S. oil and gas Stuart Freeman, chief 
0.42 percent, to 11,270.29. percent late Wednesday. reserves decreased last equity strategist for A.G. On Wednesday, the Dow The U.S. dollar was higher week. A barrel of light Edwards & Sons. added 81.96 to reach against other major cur­crude was quoted at However, it's also com­11,317 .43, its highest level rencies in European trad­$63.91, up $2.14, on the mon for stocks to see mod­since May 21, 2001. ing, and gold prices were New York Mercantile est losses after large 
Broader stock indicators lower. Exchange -19 percent gains. The major indexes also fell Thursday. The The National Association higher than a year ago. were up for four straight Standard & Poor's 500 of Realtors said sales of "You've got good home days last week in addition index lost 3.37, or 0.26 existing homes totaled 6.9 sales figures showing to Wednesday's record ses­percent, to 1,301.67, and million in February, even some decent economic sion. Combined with the the Nasdaq composite as mortgage rates recover growth, and you've got upcoming Fed meeting, a index dropped 3.20, or from all-time lows. crude oil prices up. You pause in the recent rally is 
0.14 percent, to 2,300.15. Economists were expect­put those together, and to be expected, analysts Bonds slipped, with the ing 6.5 million homes sold. that creates worries that said. 

Windows delay causes shake-up 
executive, Brian Valentine, to finish Internet-based products for things
Associated Press 
the long-delayed Windows Vista. like sending e-mail or storing pho­
Microsoft also said Ben Fathi, a tos, and these free services threat­
SEATTLE -Microsoft Corp. Windows executive currently work­en Microsoft's desktop-bound announced a shake-up Thursday of ing on storage and file systems, will Windows and other products. the unit that includes its flagship replace Mike Nash as head of its Microsoft has responded with a Windows operating system, two Security Technology Unit. Nash will beefed-up online effort of its own, days after the company admitted it take on another, as-yet-unan­dubbed "Windows Live," which is won't have its new consumer ver­nounced role. being given even more prominence sion of Windows ready for the holi­Security issues were among the in this shake-up. day season as planned. reasons for the delay in Windows The reorganization also will cre­
Under the changes, Microsoft said Vista. But Kevin Johnson, co-presi­ate a new group to focus on the Steven Sinofsky, a high-ranking dent of the unit that is being reor­engineering of new online products, executive currently in charge of ganized, said Nash's planned and one tasked with business func­developing many of the company's departure is unrelated. tions such as marketing and adver­Office business products, will be The Redmond-based software tising sales for those products. tasked with leading a new group maker said the overall restructur­Other groups will work on the that includes the Windows operat­ing is aimed at helping Microsoft core operating system and the busi­ing system and Windows Live, a key improve its online strategy, make ness for servers and software tools. effort to provide more Web-based quicker decisions without going As previously announced, Allchin, offerings. through layers of executive co-pre-sident of the Platforms and 
Microsoft said Sinofsky will focus approval and respond more nimbly Services division, will retire next on planning future versions of to growing threats from online year. Until then, he and Johnson, Windows, while outgoing Windows competitors. formerly a Microsoft sales and mar­executive Jim Allchin will work Companies such as Google Inc. keting executive, will continue to closely with another Microsoft and Yahoo Inc. are fast developing lead the division. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 24, 2006 
"I think the University and eliminates the worst that such a dorm set-up is a !like having] guys and girls prizes its own unique form of aspects, [like] elitism and bad thing," he said. "It some­floors in dorms," he said.
Dor01s 
residentiality too much," he excessive hazing as a require­times takes away from the Alston said despite the obvi­
said.

continued from page 1 
Alumni freshman Michael life, I would pledge for the Angulo said he does not think experience because I have Notre Dame "will or should heard good things about !the ever allow" fraternities and Greek system!." sororities on campus. 
Director of Admissions Dan "I would never pledge in a Saracino said the University's frat -I don't think they are housing system "definitely" the best places for me to find attraets prospective students my college social life," Angulo and that students interested said. "I think dorms at ND are in attending Notre Dame cool lbe]cause you can be as never express concern over involved or !not] involved as tho absence of a Greek life on you want." campus. 
"The lack of frats and Community and character sororities makes Notre Dame Alston said halls are like a special place and -instead fraternities and sororities in of being a drawbaek -gives that there is a strong bond the University an edge over between residents. But there other top colleges," Saracino are "obvious" differences 
said. "We're  between  the  
proud  of  two systems,  
this.  It  he said, such  
makes us unique." Students  "To a certain degree, I think that such a dorm  as the pres­ence of RAs and the  
said despitfJ any support G r e e k organiza­tions might have among undergrad­uates, the  set-up is a bad thing. It sometimes takes away from the university community feel ofthe campus. [But] at the same time. Notre Dame is a  enforcement of dorm rules. "I don't think dorms become as crazy as a fraternity. would," he  
University will likoly maintain tlw tradi­tion-based  relatively big school and it helps to have your own set group, while still being able to branch out. "  said. llanehan s a i d University dorms suc­ 
poliey.  cessfully cre­ 
"I do not think Not.rtJ Damn will  Michael Angulo Alumni fr«;!shman  ate a "com­munity feel­ing without  
ever inelude  being elitist,"  
a (;reek sys- as  students  
t  e  m  are randomly  

bneausn of onn thing -they placed into residence halls at haven't yet," Alston said. the beginning of freshman "Also, tlwy have yet to get rid year. You never have to of parietals or institute multi­"pledge" to enter dorm com­sex dorms, which would have munities, he said. to come first and appear to be "Hazing is much less of a diiTicult to have changnd." problem in Notre Dame's 
Keenan junior Brendan dorms," Hanehan said. "Our llanehan said he "can't envi­dorm system keeps the best sion a scnnario" in whieh aspects of Greek life -com­Notre Damn would ever munity feeling, athletic com­implement a Greek system. petition land] spirituality ­
ment for membership." university community feel of 
Many students cited the the campus. [But] at the same socially unifying nature of time, Notre Dame is a rela­Notre Dame's residence hall tively big school and it helps 
system  as  a  to  have  your  
positive  own set group,  
aspect  that  while  still  
parallels Greek sociitl  'The lack offrats and  being able to branch out."  
societies  at  sororities makes Notre  
other institu­tions of high­er learning. "Notre Dame's dorms promote a feeling of community  Dame a special place and ­instead ofbeing a drawback -gives the University an edge over other top colleges. "  Room for Improvement Some stu­dents said the current system restricts undergradu­ates from  
among  resi­ "branching  
dents that I think is very similar to  Dan Saracino director of admissions  out" in terms of social inter­actions with  
what  I've  the  opposite  
observed  of  sex.  Notre  
the  Greek  Dame's single­ 
system,"  sex  residence  

Hanehan said. "I also think hall tradition "easily inhibits that each dorm develops a good relationships between unique character, much like guys and girls," Angulo said. frats and sororities do." "I really think that all-guy 
Angulo said each dorm at and all-girl dorms are not as the University has a "very bad as frats and sororities, strong communal feel." but they are not as good as a 
"To a certain degree, I think gender-integrated dorm life, 
ous advantages of Notre Dame's dorm system -"the bonds an~ friends you make" -there is "no intermingling of the sexes in the dorm." 
"I am satisfied by the sys­tem in place at [the University]. although I think we could use some sort of vol­untary co-ed apartment arrangement for at least some of the seniors," llanehan said. 
Welsh Family rector Candace Carson said the resi­dence hall system as it exists is an "attractive thing," though she is not surprised to hear students calling for co­ed dorms. 
"There's always the big issue of parietals [and] same sex halls, but when students are not in front of a group people they say they like it ... They like the privacy," Carson said. "I think because of who we are, we're always going to have something to question. For us to all be happy all the time would make me wonder what's going on." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 

COME SUPPORT THE IRISH THIS WEEK! 


*EasterEgg r SOFTBALL hunt with cash l VS Western Michigan , following Wednesday, March 23rd e game for ND 4:00PM Students! Ivy Field j 
Free Admission! 



BASEBALL 
VS Georgetown Thursday, March 24th (Doubleheader) 

12:0SPM 

Frank Eck Stadium 
Free Admission with valid ND student ID! Visit www.notrcdamepromotlons.com for more information 


Friday, March 24, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
courtesy Otto Sarah Otto, fanner CWIL grant recipient, stands in the Piscines at the Our Lady of lourdes Sanctuary in Lourdes, France. Otto used the grant money to fund her Lourdes trip, during which she volunteered with women from around the world and served grotto pilgrims. 






CWIL 
continued from page 1 
concerns over CWIL's method of monetary distribution. To Kachurek, it seemed as though CWIL awarded grants to more students in smaller monetary amounts, rather than more com­pletely fulfilling the requests of just a few student requests. 
Meyer-Lee emphasized that no project could be funded 100 per­cent. 
"With more applicants, there is less money to go around," she said. "This year there had to be over 50 applicant.<;." 
Linda Biggins, the CWIL admin­istrative assistant, agreed with Meyer-Lee that it is better to make the money go farther. 
"I think it is better that CWIL help more students have a study abroad experience by awarding even a partial amount of the pro­gram cost, than to help fewer stu­dents by awarding larger grant amount.<;," Biggins said. 
Kachurek and Fricano opted to abort their project, despite the extensive research and hard work they contributed to it. 
"After laboring over the pro­posal, making contacts here in town and internationally, getting recommendations and setting up and independent study. I know there is no way we can do it now," Kachurek said. 
Kachurek, however, did not dis­credit CWIL as an organization. 
"I don't w.ant to sound ungrate­ful, but I would have rather seen CWIL approve a smaller amount of projects and make them possi­ble for students financially." she said. 
Other students have had much more positive experiences with 
CWIL. 

Junior Sara Otto received a CWIL Study Abroad Grant last year and was able to travel to Lourdes, France for three weeks this past summer, where she studied French in the morning and volunteered at the Lourdes Sanctuary in the afternoon to help sick grotto pilgrims. Otto was awarded roughly 65 percent of the money she needed to com­plete her project ($2,308 of $3,555) -unlike this year's applicants. 
CWIL left the logistics of hous­ing, transportation and the school system up to Otto but gave her a strong financial foundatnm for her trip. 
"This was not a school-related program, so CWIL just sent the check," Otto said. "I did the rest." 
Upon her return, Otto was responsible to educate this year's applicants on the process and her experience. 
"My trip wouldn't have been possible without CWIL," she said. "As a nursing major, I would not have had the opportunity to go abroad if it was not over the sum­mer. It was an amazing experi­ence and I envy the girls who get to go this year." 
Otto's experience, however, has not been a common trend among this year's applicants. 
Senior Katie Kelly, student rep­resentative to the Advisory. Committee for International Intercultural Learning, was also able to take advantage of the abroad program through CWIL. While Kelly said she, like other applicants, always hoped for the most money, she said sometimes CWIL cannot accommodate everyone. 
"I know how frustrating the lack of funding can be. but CWIL is just trying to ensure that every­one can have this opportunity," she said. 
Kelly was happy with her chance to go abroad, but said she only received about 25 percent of the funding needed for her trip to Honduras. 
Prepared to pay a large amount of her own money to finance the trip, Kelly took a second job to do so. 
"It takes sacrifice," she said. "It is a hard process, but the grants aren't meant to fully fund trips. They are meant to be awards." 
Kelly had been involved with CWIL prior to applying for a grant and now helps the abroad committee with approving stu­dent proposals for grants. She said the amount of money award­ed depends on the merit of the applicants and the effort they put into their proposals. 
Saint Mary's Study Abroad Advisor Sarah DeMott supervises the CWIL grants. She explained that the purpose of the CWIL organization is to acknowledge what learning and skills are nec­essary for Saint Mary's women to be leaders in today's world. 
DeMott emphasized the impor­tance of intercultural leadership skills in the everyday world. 
"Intercultural competency has been identified as a distinct and essential dimension for leader­ship," she said. 
DeMott also said she has seen unparalleled success with the grant program over the past few years. 
"I see the CWIL Student Travel Grants as fostering the mission of CWIL in two ways," she said. "First, as a basic utilitarian tool to financially encourage studying abroad and second, as a brilliant signet in students' portfolios and resumes to indicate intercultural awareness." 

Tracy Robison, Director of Intercultural Living at Saint Mary's, has been involved in the grant program for the past three years and said that each year, the quality of the grant proposals improve. 
"The student proposals are innovative and are good exam­ples of students taking the knowl­edge they have gained at Saint Mary's one step further," Robison said. 
Robison stressed that grants are based on the merit of the pro­posal as well as financial need. She also said that, despite the accusations, there is not truth behind spreading the money over more proposals. 
"The efforts of Dr. Meyer-Lee and Sarah DeMott increased the number of Saint Mary's student.<; studying abroad by increasing the knowledge and advantage of the student travel grants," she said. 
Meyer-Lee said she is very proud of the student.<; able to go abroad through CWIL. 
"The students who have taken advantage of this opportunity have found their additional investment well rewarded by life­changing learning," she said. 
Although there have been 
recent discrepancies over the amount of money given in the grants, DeMott said she hopes that CWII. will still be considered 
· a positive asset for students wanting to study abroad. 
"I would hope that all recipi­ents appreciate the recognition and prestige of being awarded grant funding for intercultural pursuit," DeMott said. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Take a Break! 
"lt is no unusuul thit\S for a businessman to sayc.sus/ly, 'Well, let'sgo andget a cup of coffee/ as a visitor in his off'tc~ is making ready to depart. II: i< alitt:k: thin;~ perhops, this drinkit'l\ ofcoffee at <xld times, but it i• very chnroctcri•tic ofthe city itself." 
~Lyle S:lx(n~ fhbulotrs Nt."\Y Orleans, 1~128 

574-234-1141 
CorncrofJcffurson fr Michigan DowMtown South Bcrod Mon·Thur"6~0unH)pm• Fd tt.30tlm~8pm Sat 8tnn-10pnt (Uvc Mu~ic 7-lOr>rn) • Son8~m·2pm 
Suml<ly Hqy 14 Morris Performing 8rts <:vntw 
On solll at Morri:. Box Ofti(Q, www.motris«Znter.org Of Zl$-9190 
THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, March 24, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
1'.0. llox 779, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike (.;iJloon 
MANAGING Eom>R 8liSINI!.SS MANAGER. Maddie Hanr1a Paula Garcia 

Ass·1; MANAGING EDITOR: Rama t;orrumukkala AssT. MANAGING EI>ITOR: Ruben Griflin 
NEWS EniTORS: Amanda Michaels Mary Kate Malorw VIEWI'OINT f.DITOR: Joey King Sro1ns Emron: Kt·n Fowler SCI'.NF. EI>ITOR: Brian Ooxtadcr SAINT MAllY'S E.DITOII: Kelly Meehan Pnmu lmiTOR: Dustin Mennella GRAI'IIICS Eorron: t;raham Ehctsch 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
An DI~~IGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CoNTROI.U:R: Jim Kirihara 

WEll AI>MINISTI!Arolt: DarniJn Ahholl' SYSTEMS AllMINISI't!ATOR Alcj,mdro Ct·rbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
('i74) 6.31-7471 
FAX 
('i74) 6j 1-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 ohscrvad@'nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@)nd.edu 
ASSI§JANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vicwpoinr.!@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 6:ll-4543 spom.1@'nd.edu 
ScENE DEsK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.cdu 
·~)AINT MARY'S DESK_ 
·srnc.1 @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
('i74) 631-8839 
THI' 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

Tlw Obst·rwr is the indt•(wndt·nr. daily newspaper published in prim .md online by the students of rhc Uniwrsity of Notre Dame du Ltt' and Saint M;try's ( :olll'ge. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed hy policies nf the adminiMratinn ofeithl'r institution. The OhSt·rwr rt-scrvl'S the right ro rdiiSe adverti:,c.·mcnts haM:d on content. 
Tht' lll'WS is rt'p•>rtnl.ts accurately and ohjcctivdy it.\ pos.,ihk. Un.,ignnlnlitori.tl' rq>rcscrll tht· opinion of the majority of till' F<litor in Chid~ Managing hliror. i\ssist;lllt Managing l·:ditors .md departnwnt editors. l :onun<'lll.tric,, k·ut•rs and wlumn' present rhe vit'WS of the authors and not nt•ccssarily those nfThc l >hserwr. 
Vi<wpoi rll sp<K•: i., av.tilahle to .til readers. Till' fret· t•xprcssionof all opinions through leners is encouragt·d. l.ettt·rs to tilt' Editor must l~t· signed and must include conrart inf(lrnl.lti<rn. 
Qumions rt:e,arriing OlmTt'rr policies shoulti be dim·teri ttJ Hditor in ChiifMikr &IUorm. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

I hr ( )[~rvt•r (( J.W~ 'i?<J 1-40(111) i~ pul~u.l~l Muru.l.ay thmu~h Fnd.ay Cxt.e!-H Juring Mlollll .r/111 Volt.,IIIUfl perllld•. A\Uh..np1Lill1 f<) IlK-Cll~~ervcr i~ SIOII rut UIIC ...:adt'lfll(, 
)'T•Ui $"i"i fur 1111r l•rllu-.\lcr. 
'Ill< 01-..crvt'r 1$ puhh~hc:d .u: 021 Sou1h Omm~ ll.rll ~d .addrN correcrinm ro: Nom: D.ttllr', IN •IM'WHt779 ThcOluc-rvc:t l'criodkJI po~t.&Kl' p.uJ .u N1llte Dilmc P.O. B"rn9 .mJ JdJULunill matllllp: offi1 Cll 014 !\omh Dinmg t tall 
Nolte D~rnt, IN 'lf>'S%·0779 

The OIKCIVC::I ito .a m~m~r 'Illh.: hwda1d P1na. All tcproductiun righu ,an: r~crvcd. 
Donn life helps define Notre Dame 
Notre Dame's residence lite system is much more than a way to fraternities were allowed. house studenl'i. A University trademark, dorm life is steeped in Inclusion in a fraternity or sorority eonnecl-; studonl-; to mom­years of tradition and is a defining characteristic of the Notre hers of their chapters across the country, and some Notre Dame Dame lifestyle. studenL-; argue bonds between fratornity and sorority mmnbers 
Not all that unlike fraternities and sororities -in the eyes of are stronger than those between dorm-mates. But these are dif­the Ollke of Admissions, at least. ferences and not disadvantages. Devotion to a fraternity or soror­
Prospective students on campus tours are often told that dorm ity ean often come at the expense of something ~-,rreater -lovn for placenwnt is like automatic inclusion in a fraternity or sorority, m~e's school. Notm Dame may not be the plaf~e to forg1~ fraternity only without the hassles of a lengthy and involved pledge-and­chapter eonneetions across the country, but Notn~ Damn's alumni rush system. network is indisputably national. 
After glancing through an Admissions guide, tho The positives to not having fraternities and statmnent seems valid. From semi-f(mnals to serv­O tJhe sororities are extensive -and the fact that 
userver
ice projecl'> to interhall sporl'i, each msidence hall approximatnly SO porcfmt of undergraduates live has its own customs and activities that encourage on campus is a telling statistie. For ineoming unity and f(Jster pride among iL-; residents. freshmen, it's certainly a relief to have housing

Editorial 
But are residence halls really substitutes for fra­arranged a month in advance with no need to ternities and sororities'? worry about rushing a fratornity just days afler While Zahm "llousf~" might leave visitors with that impression, arriving on eampus. And that spirit of inclusion is nxadly what's the answer is dearly no. needed at a school so often eriticized fc1r a lack of diversity and 
It's true that dorm spirit creates a sense of belonging, some­intolerance of alternative lm~styles. thing especially important for freshmen struggling to find a nicho The concept of the "Notrn Dame family" may havn lost somn of in tho Notn~ Dame community. However, it's not parallel to being il-; force after bning used so hfmvily as marketing slogan J(w the ofl(wed admission to a fraternity. Admission to Greek lifo is oflcn school. But that family dons exist and is strongnr without studenl-; based on one's physical appearance, race and income level -pledging absolute alh~giance to a Grnek house. belonging mom to creating a community that encourages exclusivity and distances an organization than to a university. il<>nlf from the main campus. Notre Dame's all-inclusive mentali­Student<> coming to campus in hopes of finding a dear substi­ty is the refreshing opposite of Greek life's exclusivity. Studenl<> in tute for Greek life will be disappointed. But Domers, whnther all of Notre Dame's residence halls feel a connection to the they've been here for just six months or graduated more than 60 University as a whole -a sentiment that would likely weaken if years ago, will always belong to a unique and meaningful family. 
U-WIRE 

The fine line between stupid and clever 
Satire has always been a necessary part everything from the VIrgin Mary to Paris ment with the religion to hL-; landing the of popular culture, keeping the establish­I lilton. In addition to the Cruise controver­role of VInnie Barbarino on Welcome Back, ment on its toes since the days of the sy, Isaac Hayes, voice of the character Kotter; Kelly Preston claims that all her ancient Greeks. IL<> proud tradition includes Chef, left the show citing the cart.oon's dreams are becoming realities with the such authors as Jonathan Swift and Mark "intolerance and bigotry towards the reli­help of the church; and Kirstie Alley says Twain, who made gious beliefs of others." she'd be dead if it weren't f(Jr the guidance 
Sean

careers out of exposing The episode that brought about the most ofL. Ron Hubbard. The celnbrities nevnr
Bartlett

idiocy and mass recent controversy, titled "Trapped in the actually say how thP pro~-,rram brought 
hypocrisy. Hecently, the Closet," made repeated jokes about them success, just that it works. ·· though
Boston

most notable additions Cruise's faith, so I absolutely expected a. I'm not suro it's a-; bennfidal as they daim.
University

to the long line of tal­backlash. But given that the star has boon We should keep in mind that aftnr joining 
Daily Free 

fmted satirisL-; am so defensive of his religion in the past, I did the Church of Scientology, Travolta still 
Press

South Park creators not expect his rntaliation to be a mere flex­made Battlefinld I~arth. 
Trny Parker and Matt ing of his Hollywood muscle. If South Park The principal bnnr South Park had with 
Stoll!\ who have truly dovelop!'d a "modest was really that otf-baso in it-; portrayal or Sciontolo~-,ry was that iL-; seernl-; are only 
proposal" f(>r our generation. Every Scientology, Cruise could have easily spo­available to nwrnbnrs who pay f(w them. 
Wednesday night at 10 p.m., tlw pair ken out against it, doflat.ing any misrharae­Wlwn Stan. a little boy who has b1~1m pro­
becomes Amerka's f(Jremost social watdJ­tnrizations the cartoon made in a single claimed a reincarnation of L. Hon 
dogs, lampooning everything and everyone prnss eonfemnee. But since we am never Hubbard. decides to makP all tho inf(wma­
in llw public nyH, all with a wit and cyni­given any oflieial deelaration of the true tion fren of chargf\ reprnsfmtativns from 
cism that are nothing short of brilliant. tmwt'> or Scientology, we have to rely on tho church thrnatnn to sue him f(Jr 
But t.hnre are many who do not share my the observations of characters liko Stan defiunation. or eoursn it's an nxaggnrated am~ction f(w Parkm· and Stone. Tom Marsh and Erie Cartman to draw our own carit:aturn of the organization, but it may Cruise, for example, rocent.ly made room condusions. And frighteningly enough. the not be all that ridieulous. in his busy schedule of feigning sanity to f(mrth graders are usually right. A<> a child, I was always told that it was squekh a sdwduled mrun of South Park While looking on the Scientology web­rude to discuss religion and polities, as you that targHtnd his beloved Church of site, hoping to learn real lacL-; about the never know whom you might otnmd. Scientology. It has been reported that the religion, I f(mnd a bunch of broad general­Fortunately, we now have South Park to Dianetks postnr boy threatened not to pro­izations about spirituality and the al'terlife, take on the burden of tlwse taboo topks mote the upcoming release of "Mission: as well as background information about for us. Someone nneds to keep the snlf~ Impossible 3," whieh was produced by Scientology four1der L. Ron Hubbard's cre­obsessed, delusional Tom Cruises oftl1is Comedy Central's parnnt company Viaeom, ative process, but nothing really concrete world in line and out of the doset. I know I if the episode re-aired on March 15. Of in regard to his teachings. What's more, don't have the power to, but Trey Parker course, the network f(>lded and pulled the these isolated pieces of philosophy seem to and Matt Stone certainly do. It's a respon­episode from il'i rotation, leaving fans to take a back seat to the real foeus of the sibility they seem more than happy to ful­wonder how the man responsible for Days website: the celebrity t(Jstimonials. In tl1is fill, and we should all be grateful. of Thunder was allowed to judge what section, prepamd statement-; from various passos lor acceptable cable television pro­actors are presented alongside their head­This column originally appeared in the ~-,rramming. shots. It's reminiscent of the title sequence March 23 edition ofThe Daily Free Press. 
No matter what critics say about South to Family Matters, only everyone's Urkel. the daily publication at Boston llniversity. Park, they cannot change the fact that the All of the statements attest to how suc­The views expressed in this column are series has been an equal opportunity cessful Scientology has made these celebri­those ofthe author and not necessarily oflender since it-; inception, taking shots at ties. John Travolta attributes his involve-those ofThe Obseruer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Karen Langley Matt Puglisi Amanda Michaels Kyle Cassily 
Jenny Hames Joe Quinn Viewpoint Scene Joey Kin:g Chris McGrady 
Graphics Matt Hudson Alexa Antekeier 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
How do you feel about the absence 
·-·t t· tt ~ 
of Greek life on campus? 


IDI .• ai.e;. er 1 
a) I don't care. 
"Life is like playing a violin in public and 
b) Iwish Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
learning the instrument as one goes on." 
had Greek life. 
c) I think dorm life is agood substitute. 
to tbe Editor at I
. . , ... ·.· . . . ,··. ·.· I
d) Ithink Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are 
Samuel Butler 

heuer off without it. 
English writer

www.ndsmcobserver.com'
*Poll appem courtesy of 
www.nd.c;mcobserver.com and is ba<ed on 368 responses. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Friday, March 24, 2006 
page 11 
Exatnining the decline of support for President Bush 
This week marked the third anniver­sary of the Iraqi invasion and conjured the obvious question, "How is it going?" President George W. Bush claims that great progress is not reported by American reporters, thus Iraq is not as bad as the average American may believe. Yet in the same breath. he con­dudes that American soldiers will remain in Iraq beyond his term ending in Jan., 2009. But with the British drawing down their troop level to 17 per­cent of their total, the new question is, "Are the British and Americans in the same war?'' 
The Iraqi quality of life belies the president's contention. Today, fewer families have electricity in Iraq than before the invasion. Less oil is produced than three years ago. Fewer have run­ning water or sewage treatment. In fact, earlier this week ABC News aired a spontaneous poll of Iraqi police standing at roll call. Asked for a show of hands of those who believe that they are worse off now than under Sad dam's rule, near­ly two-thirds raised their hands for the camera in a less than resounding hearts and minds moment from the local front­line defenders of Iraqi democracy. 
A president generally loses support 

Gary Caruso 
Capital Comments 

when the public perceives distrust, deceit, disgust, disappointment or dis­grace. The president surely becomes paralyzed if the public assigns him one of the dreaded five "D" grades. With Iraq and domestic spying, Bush has firmly planted his feet in the quicksand of distrust and disappointment. 
Bush's popularity peaked after the 9/11 attacks at 90 percent approval. Patriotic Democrats like this writer set aside political affiliation to make an American statement and support our commander-in-chief. Even French news­papers caught world sentiment when headlines read, "We are all Americans." 
Bush's handling of Iraq steadily declined to 72 percent at the start of the invasion to 59 percent when he declared "mission accomplished" on the aircraft carrier. He slipped to 42 percent approval after disgusting revelations of American soldiers' treatment of prison­ers at Ahu Ghraib prison. He further suffered declines last month to 39 per­cent and now at only 31 percent approval. 
Bush disappointed many by squander­ing that moment of world unity after 9/11 through miscalculations and strong-headed denials. Americans began to distrust Bush when he attempted to appear steady and strong while never adjusting for changing con­ditions. Only now Bush hints that some changes are needed. What he views as weakness and called "flip-flopping" in his last campaign now rhetorically pro-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Defending Greek life 
I am a transfer student who was very active in Chi Omega at my previous school. 
Leaving my sisters was extremely difficult, but we've managed to remain in contact thanks to the strong bonds we formed through our sorority. 
It's true that Greek life promotes social participation; however, it's demeaning to equate this to academic indifference. Most Greek organizations won't even allow their pledges to initiate unless they have at least a 'B' average. That's one of the only requirements of pledges. The others are more along the lines of being trustworthy and considerate than being alcoholic and promiscuous. 
Instead of portraying this truth, the media makes every incident involving a fraternity or sorority member into an attack on the entire Greek system. Because a small percentage make a bad deci­sion, the entire system must be flawed? The Greek system has become intolerant of such behavior, and any offender is subject to immediate expulsion from their organization and the school. In many cases, students affiliated with Greek life are prone to harsher punishments and held to higher standards because of their choice to go Greek. 
We also do not accept discrimination. It is my opinion that Greek life actually promotes diversity. Every ethnicity was largely repre­sented in the Greek life on my old campus. Not only were the organizations diverse in ethnicity, but every fraternity and sorority had members active in everything from athletics to theatre. We also had a variety of majors that I would have never met without Greek life. Most of the girls I became closest to where in that category. 
We weren't restricted to members of our sorority either. All the Greek life would band together for service projects and campus­wide activities. But no one hears about fraternities raising money for Make a Wish Foundation or sororities visiting nursing homes. People maintain the image of John Belushi and Jack Daniel's with­out realizing there's more to fraternities. The only hint of reality in "Animal House" was the participation of the Greeks in the home­coming parade. Sadly, ours has never involved a Death-mobile. We do not steal each other's cars or kill people's horses or paddle our pledges by candle light. In fact, my initiation did not involve alcohol, nudity or physical abuse. Every person involved in Greek life has gone through the "hazing" that everyone is so afraid of, so how bad can you believe it to be? If anything, initiation is a reflection of the type of people at the university. With that in mind, I have no doubt that here, the greatest university in the world, would likewise have the greatest Greeks in the world. 
Alicia Burtner 
sophomore 
Lyons Hall 
March 22 

hibits him from making lifesaving adjustments. 
Even Ronald Heagan, after cutting taxes, supported eleven "revenue enhancements" (tax increases) to help control budget deficits by portraying them as adjustments. Bush would do well to use the Reagan model. 
Foremost, Bush·should recognize that the National Guard and reservists are not suitable for long-term combat. On Wednesday, 24-year-old Sergeant Michael Smith, the tenth soldier at Abu Ghraib to be convicted for dereliction of duty and maltreating prisoners, testified that, "Soldiers are not supposed to be soft and cuddly." While the court found that he conspired with another dog han­dler in a contest to make detainees soil themselves, the details of degradation is not the point of the Abu Ghraib failure. 
The virtue of the United States is that it is the beacon of freedom and shining envy of democracy. It must always exemplify those values. When the presi­dent objects to Senator John McCain's anti-torture language against the CIA, the president loses credibility. When part-time soldiers are forced to serve in a permanent war zone -beyond 2009 according to Bush -the quality of our mission suffers. 
The Notre Dame ROTC community, of which I was a member, must take note of the graduate who cannot leave the Army reserve despite completing his eight-year commitment. Even with no "stop loss" order in effect, the Army will 
Hazing conunon 
I think it is a great concept to question the 
not release him. It seems that the unwritten rule is that unless reservists tour Iraq, they are not released despite serving a full commitment. 
Early this year, the Notre Dame gradu­ate filed suit against the Army. In what appears to be retaliation, the Army reassigned him to Iraq in April. He now has filed for an injunction. Enforcement of the unwritten tour requirement may keep boots on the ground for now. but it fosters feelings of deceit and distrust which are eroding the president's mili­tary support. 
Long ago, Democrats and most Independents abandoned this president. Bush only has himself to blame for the Republicans who are currently drifting .I I away. As a rule, if at least 80 percent of I I Republicans support Bush, his overall I approval breaks 40 percent or higher. I 
I 

While history kindly treated Harry Truman after he left office, few compare Bush to Truman. Ironically, they look at the last president to find himself in such turmoil and who left his war for his suc­cessor to remedy -fellow Texan Lyndon Johnson. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a political strategist who served as a leg­islative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol. com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

Correction 
In a recent essay ("Absent at ND, Greek system 
need for fraternities and sororities on campus and to underline the fact that Notre Dame has none of these kind of groups. However, hazing which is often associated with Greek life, exists on athletic teams, in the band and in all kinds of other clubs. 
Therefore, I challenge you to investigate haz­ing in Notre Dame, despite the lack of Greeks. 
Dr. Susan Lipkins psychologist Port Washington, New York March 22 
thrives elsewhere," March 22) about fraternities, I was mis-cited. The essay claims I criticized Delta Phi Epsilon, a service fraternity. In fact, I criticized Sigma Phi Epsilon, a social fraternity. 
As my original essay makes clear, I am not concerned about club and groups that have a professional, religious or service focus, only those that are exclusively social. 
Fr. Christopher Steck, S.J. professor Georgetown University March 23 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

...--------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 






CENE
page 12 
Friday, March 24, 2006 
DVD REVIEW 

Disney disaster 'Chicken Little' lays an egg 
By MARY SQUILLACE 
Scene Critic 
Back in the day, Disney movies meant classic tales punctuated with catehy songs that oiTored oven college students a fun nostalgic retreat. "Chicken Little" is not one of those movies. 
While it has lured audience members in with its soemingly cute and euddly 3-D characters, Dism~y·s latf~st relea.c;;e fails to live up to the brand's legacy. 
"Chicken Little" takes plaee in a bizarre eontomporary animal world, where Chicken Little has been ostracized for claiming that thn sky is falling when a piece of tho sky appears to land on his head. Feeling rejeeted by his eommunity, dassmatns and nven his father, Chicken Little vows to prove himself by joining the baseball team. Miraeulously, after not having been allowed to play in any prior games, he manages to seore the winning run in the ehampionship. 
Although his victory on the baseball field earns Chiekcn Little the approval he older audience is with one of the charac­ters, the overweight Runt of the Litter, who frequently bursts into popular songs. Unfortunately, this character's effect is more nerve-grating than laugh-generat­ing. 


Armed with their wacky traits that we've seen embodied by a dozen other far more endearing individuals, the film's characters are equally painful to watch. Even big-name actors who sup­plied voices to the characters -Zach Braff as Chicken Little, Joan Cusack as Abby Mallard, and the talented Amy Sedaris as Chicken Little's nemesis, Foxy Loxy -fail to breathe life or humor into the film. 
Another disappointing aspect of 
"Chicken Little" is its song selection. Sitting through the overdramatic tunes is enough to make anyone pity the soccer moms and dads who will endure playing the soundtrack on repeat to entertain four-year-olds. 
The ftlm is released on DVD today and includes deleted scenes, alternate open­ings and games, as well as a variety of other bonus features. But not even a dia­mond encrusted DVD case could make it a worthwhile investment. 
Instead of wasting money on Chicken Little, the $19.99 would be better spent on a whole lot of poultry. 
Contact Mary Squillace at msquiJia@nd.edu 


desires from his father, he is instantly faeed with a new challenge when aliens invade his town. Alongside his wacky friends, Chicken Little manages to muster the courage and self-confidence to save the day. 
Okay, sure it's the standard kids' fllm ­predictable and riddled with corny, feel­good messages -but when compared against the likes of "Shrek" and "Finding Nemo," "Chicken Little" only appears more pathetic. Animated films have previ­ously overcome the age barrier by appeal­ing to an adult audience through sly paro­dies and PG jokes that go over younger audience members' heads. 
"Chicken Little," on the other hand, tries for this effect but fails. It packs in too many eheesy gimmicks that are strung together and stretched over an extremely thin plot. With a story that switches gears so many times, the audience gets the feel­ing that the filmmakers were frantically trying to compensate for a story that sim­ply did not provide enough substance for an entertaining film. In fact, despite its feature-length film status at 81 minutes, 
this film feels more like an animated short. The allu­sions to pop-culture that do exist fall short in deliv­ering laughs. One espe­cially cringe-worthy attempt at parody features one of the eharacters con­structing an Empire State Building replica and imi­tating King Kong. 
Another way the film­makers try to tap into an 
PLAY REVIEW 

'A Few Good Men' clashes with contemporary issues 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Scene Critic 
GuanUinamo Bay, Cuba has become one of the most controversial topics of modern times. It is the only American military installation on the soil of a Communist country and has come to represent certain aspects of the "war on terror" that some lind absolutely neces­sary and others absolutely reprehensi­ble. 
This naval base is at the foeus of "A Fnw Good Men," a play written by Aaron Sorkin and presented by the St. Edward's Hall Players. Performed in Washington Hall and directed by Patriek Vassel, the production takes on a unique perspective due to the events surrounding the current U.S. foreign policy. 

Thn play ennters around two Marines, Lance Corporal Harold Dawson and Private First Class ( PFC) Louden Downey, who are stationed at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base. The pair are chargnd with the murder of PFC William Santiago and brought to Washington, D.C. for trial. The lawyers assigned to the case are Lieutenants Daniel Kal'fee and Sam Weinberg and LifJUtenant Commander Joanne Galloway. They begin an investigation that starts with the Private First Class on trial and rises up the ranks to Lieutenant Colonel Nathan Jessep, the commanding officer of Guantanamo Bay. 
One of the issues in performing this play is that it will inevitably draw com­parisons to the well-known 1992 film directed by Hob Heiner. This particular production was based on the stage play, written by Sorkin before he penned the screenplay. However, the performance was able to stand on its own and brought its own flavor and unique char­acteristics, separating it from the film. 
Drew McElligott put on an excellent performance as the deadly serious Jessep. In a role that garnered Jack Nicholson an Oscar nomination for the film, McElligott brought his own style and feel to the character, one that is much more than a rehash of Nicholson's performance. 
Equally intimidating is the role of Lieutenant Jonathan James Kendrick, played by Jeff Eyerman. Eyerman effec­tively brings out the religious fervor and devotion to the Marines of this character. Matt Goodrich was also very good as Kaffee and Kathleen Ryan and Brandon McGirr provide notable sup­porting roles as Galloway and Weinberg, respectively. Overall, the cast manifests their characters memorably. 
The most noteworthy aspect of this particular production is the method of scene transition. In much the same way a tilm will have dialogue from a scene before a cut to that scene occurs, this performance ends some scenes as oth­ers are beginning. Lighting is used to notify a scene change and this provides conn~ctions to scenes that may not oth­erwise be considered connected as such. 
Also, the setting will change based on lighting and props used. A table that is in Kaffee's apartment will quickly become a table in the courtroom as the props used by the characters will change, the lighting will be altered, and characters will take positions that noti­fies the audience that the action is now in the courtroom. It is a highly effective method that provides connections not only on the artistic level, but showcases a very practical use of the space. 
This play takes on a different tone due to recent events. The prisoner scandals associated with Guantanamo Bay come to mind while watching this perform­ance. 
In a memorable line, Jessep states, "I have neither the time nor the inclina­tion to explain myself to a man who rises and sleeps under the blanket of the very freedom that I provide, and then questions the manner in which I provide it." 
This bold statement sums up the question that arises from the current situation at the Naval Base -do audi­ences assume that the government is protecting our interests and should be able to do whatever they need to make us safe, or should we know what goes on even if it means that we may be less secure? The answer to this question is not an easy one. 


"A Few Good Men" is not an anti-mili­tary play nor is it pro-military. It is a play that raises very important ques­tions about the nature of the law and what is permissible to provide national security. Vassel directs a very effective version of this play that showcases some of the best talent that Notre Dame has to offer in student-theater. 
While the film is very good, this play provides a new medium for which to enjoy this story and does a noteworthy job providing quality theater at Notre Dame. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, March 24, 2006 
page 13 
VIDEO GAME REVIEW 
'Pursuit' chases perfection 

By MARK BEMENDERFER Assistant Scene Editor 
Video games and Hollywood are often closely intertwined. Blockbuster releases frequently have a correspon­ding game release, such as "King Kong" and "Narnia." Other games draw obvious influences from Hollywood, such as 
ments are some of the worst in the game, as player control is reduced to merely manning a gun. Aiming is diffi­cult as small targets appear in the form of cars. Adding to this annoyance, the helicopter and the cars continuous­ly move. 
Rounding out the action segments are some on-foot scenes where the game turns into a simple third-person 
shooter. Control is 

the "Resident Evil" simplified for these franchise. Pursuit Force (PSP) parts, and they are 
"Pursuit Force," 
by far some of the released for the easiest parts of the PSP, draws heavily game. from the Hollywood However, all of action film genre. the different game
Release: March 7, 2006 

Filled with literal modes wouldn't
Produced by: SCEA and Bigbighigh-octane action, Studios 
"Pursuit Force" fea­Genre: Car combat 
tures all the car, 
Players: One boat and helicopter System: PSP only 

chases audiences expect from a sum­mer blockbuster. 
The premise is simple. Crime has skyrocketed, so a new branch of the police has been formed to combat this growing menace. This new branch is referred to as the Pursuit Force. Designed to chase the criminals down using highly reckless actions, the for­mation of this branch sets the stage for the rest of the game. 
Many games feature all of the afore­mentioned Hollywood elements. But the unique part of "Pursuit Force" is the ability to 
mean much if they were not backed by solid game play. Fortunately, the controls are suffi­cient, with the driv­
ing sections reminiscent of "Burnout." The boat segments, as well as the on­foot parts, are equally easy to control, with the one dark spot being the afore­mentioned helicopter scenarios. 
Garners will find plenty of reasons to play "Pursuit Force," even after com­pleting the missions. 
Every mission is given a letter grade, with the higher grades being particu­larly difficult to obtain. The higher grades reward players with cheats, movies and new modes of pl"ay, providing added 
leap from vehicle to vehi­The unique part of motivation to jump back cle while traveling at "Pursuit Force,, is in and replay the mis­incredible speeds. sions.
the ability to leap
Not content to simply It should be noted, how­follow the suspects, the from vehicle to ever, that this game is dif­hero will leap from his car vehicle while ficult. It's not as hard as to the criminals at the the initial European
traveling at

touch of a button, all while release, which lacked traveling in speeds of incredible speeds. checkpoints, but it is still 
excess of 100 miles per hour. 
This leads to some truly interesting scenarios, as players will find them­selves leapfrogging down a highway, jumping from car to car after the bad guys. There are also moments where the player will leap from a car to a boat, and then back again, all without interruption in the game play. 
Unfortunately, the combat helicopter moments are not as seamless or smooth when compared to their motor vehicle counterparts. Instead, a short cinematic shows the player leaping into the helicopter's cockpit. These seg­
an ordeal for the casual 
gamer. None of the mis­sions are impossible, but they can seem that way at first. Easily daunted garners might be better off looking for their action fix elsewhere. 
"Pursuit Force" is one of the defini­tive action experiences for Sony's portable system. 
Featuring a variety of modes, furious action and even a little humor, this game should provide plenty of hours of entertainment. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
-
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, March 24, 2006 
NCAA TOURNAMENT 

LSU knocks off No. 1 Duke to reach Elite Eight 
Paulino's shot saved Texa'i from
UCLA rallies to edge 

an overtime period after Kevin 
Morrison, Gonzaga Pitlsnogle's fifth 3-pointer lor West 
Virhrinia tiPd it with 5 seeonds left. 
Paulino took a pass from J\.J. 
Abrams beli1m launching his win­
ner just before timn expired. 
ATLANTA -No rwml for LSU Ollkials quickly huddled to con­
and Big Baby to cry in this NC!\J\ firm Paulino's shot was good. 
t.ournanH•nl. Tlw TigPrs fpf't thP "Tiw whole thing was to get it 
l.nars fill" .1..1. lkdirk. down tlw floor and see what hap­
Clnn "Big Baby" Davis ami a pair pens," Paulino said. adding he had 
of dnfPIISiVe-minded fn~shnH'n spnd lie· instructions from eoaeh 
havn t:.;u just onP win away from Hick Barnes. 
l.lu~ Final Four. stilling Hmlick and "Coach said iI' (hey f'ake the 
sPmling top-SPPdPd Dukn to ynt scroPn, whid1 they did. get out 
anothPr loss in tlw round of 16. quick and just run it down the 
Davis o;cornd 14 points despitn floor and start up. So that's what I foul trouble. frPshman Tyrus did, I just ran down the floor. J\.J. Thomas swattPd away five shots got the ball to me and I was ready and anotlwr fn~shman, (;arn~tt to go." Tmnpln, shut down Hediek to lnad The senior said he had never No. 4 send I.SU to a 62-:i4 upsnt made a similar shot, though he has Thursday night in the Atlanta made 40.9 percent of' his career 3­Hegional. pointers. Ile led the team by mak­
"It f(~d" good, hut it's ovnr," Davis ing 41.6 permnt of his :~-pointers said. "TIH•rn 's another task at this season, but in Thursday hand." night's game, Texas was not the 
That comes Saturday, wlwn tim team depending on 3-pointers. Tigers (26-H) will face Tnxas in West Virginia, second in the tlwir first regional final sin en 19H7. nation in 3-pointers made this sea­Thn winnnr of that orw ~~an hook a son. made 15 of 33 3-point shots in !light to lndianapolLs. the game. Texas was 4-for-19 from 
Dukn (32-4) is hnading home. 3-point range. having llickerml out at a litmiliar "We thought we had a pretty point in the tournament. The Blue good shot to go into overtime," D1wils l11st in the mgional semifi­Pittsnogle said. "(Paulino) just nals for the third time in four tossed it up and it went in." ynars. LaMarcus Aldridge scored 26 
"This dnfinitnly hurts," said a points for second-seeded Texas rml-eyml Hedick, who had one of (30-6), and Pitlsnogle led the sixth­wa'i their star. knock out Morrison and third­Mark Few helped him up. his worst games in the finale of his seeded Mountaineers (22-11) with "That's what my dunks do," said seeded Gonzaga Thursday night to When the buzzer soundfld, UClA brilliant college career. "The last 19. Carney, who added three steak "I advance to the regional final. senior Cedric Bozeman ran around li1ur years have been prntty amaz­Texas beat West Virginia 76-75 spark the team with run-through Morrison, Gonzaga's shaggy­the court with the ball in his hands ing and I didn't want that to end." on Nov. 21 and couldn't avoid dunks. It gives the team intensity. I haired star, made two free throws -Hyan Hollins right with him. 
Hediek hardly looked like a another dose finish, even after want to dunk on 7 -toot guys." with 3:26 to go, giving him 24 on Hollins and Afllalo went to help up favoritP l'or player of the year, leading 39-27 at halftime. Darius Washington Jr. added 18 the night and the Bulldogs (29-4) a Morrison, who was sprnad on the making only 3-ol~ I H shol<; and fin­"I was worried coming in points and Shawne Williams had 71-62 lead. But the Bruins (30-6) floor at midcourt. Few then camP ishing with 11 poinl<; -more than because it was a team we know," 12 points, eight rebounds and tour ·didn't wilt. to hug the crying Morrison. 16 poims below his season aver­Barnes said. "I am not sure what blocks as Memphis won the third Mbah a Moute scored six of the UClA never led until the final age and equaling his lowest-scor­happened on that last play round of the Oakland Regional for final 11 poinlr.; and got a key steal seconds, staging a thrilling latfl­ing gmnn of the season. because we were switching every­its seventh straight victory. in the final seconds to seal the win game rally that will be remem­
Duke's other star senior, Shelden thing. It was a great day. Wow!" Carney raised his arms in the air and send UClA to its first regional bered for years at the tradition­Williams, went out with 23 poinl'> in celebration after a two-handed final since 1997. rich school with 11 national titles. and 13 rebounds but his team Memphis 80, Bradley 64 jam midway through the second The Bruins will play Saturday Mbah a Moute started the come­W<L'>n't nearly as balanced as LSU, OAKLAND, Calif. -Rodney half. one of several emphatic against Memphis (33-3), which back with two free throws and which won the Southeastern Carney eounts on his first dunk of dunks by the 6-foot-7 forward who beat Bradley 80-64 in the first then scored on a putback with Confi.m~nee regular-season cham­a game igniting his teammates' was virtually unknown when he semifinal of the Oakland regional. 2:09 to go to make it 71-66. pionship and has il<; sighl'i on an intensity. first arrived at Memphis. Now, he The Tigers beat the Bruins 88-80 Morrison, who shot 10-for-17 but even bigger title. He dunked all right, he jumped is one win from finishing his stellar in November. missed hLs last four from the field, 
in the passing lanes on defense, collegiate career in his hometown Mter Mbah a Moute stole the missed a jumper with about a Texas 74, West VIrginia 71 and Cal'ney kept top-seeded of Indianapolis for the Final Four. ball from Derek Raivio with 2.6 minute left and Jordan Farmar 
ATI ANT/\ -Whnn Texas need­Memphis from becoming another seconds left, Morrison put his scored quickly on the other end to ed a 3-point shot, it turnnd to the victim of Bradley's surprising UCLA 73, Gonzaga 71 hands on hi'i head and bent down, make it a three-point game. right shooter. NCAA run. OAKlAND, Calif.-Luc Richard overcome with emotion, fighting Morrison missed again the next 
Kenton Paulino, a senior who Carney contributed on both ends Mbah a Moute provided a shocking tears in what was probably his time down and Batista fouled ranks sncond in school history in of the floor Thursday, scoring 23 ending to Adam Morrison's amaz­final game in a Gonzaga uniform. Hollins going for the rebound. career 3-point perermtage, hit a 3-poinls and leading a stingy defense ing season. He is expected to turn pro after the Hollins made both free throws to pointer <Ls time expired Thursday that gave Memphis a victory and Mbah a Moute scored under­sea'ion. make it 71-70 and the Bruins then night and Texas outlastnd West put the Tigers in the regional final neath with 10 seconds left and the J.P. Batista missed a desperation stole the ball in the backcourt from Virginia in the third round of the for the first time since 1992 -second-seeded Bruins scored the 15-footer at the buzzer and fell Batista, setting up Mbah a Moute's NCJ\J\ tournament. back when Anfernee Hardaway final 11 points of the game to into the Zags' bench, where eoach go-ahead score. 
Assu~iatcd Press 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Two story house completely  1-7 bdrm. homes starting @  The lying, cheating witch is gone  
WANTED  RENT  remodeled 2003. Ready for immediate occupancy or  $2001student, 24-hr.maint.,free pool tables, 1st mo. free.  TICKETS  and I have to do what? I Orpheus  
next school year.  Call574-250-7653 or  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
Summer Camp Counselor  WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6  Off street parking includes motion  visit bluegoldrentals.com  O.A.R. tix first 3 rows & James  not go it alone. If you or someone  
for children wldisabilities.  BEDROOM HOMES  sensor light for security.  Taylor. Call 272-7233.  you love needs confidential support  
Must havo strong work ethic  MMMRENTALS.COM  Four individually locked bedrooms,  Furnished 4BR house near ND.  or assistance, please call Sr. M.L.  
and be interested in making a  532-140B  central station monitored security  ADT,air,laundry,dishwash,  TOP DOLLAR PAID FOR YOUR  Gude, CSC at 631·7B19. For more  
difference in the life of a child.  system, six blocks from Notre  basement,yrd.  FOOTBALL SEASON. TIX.  information, see our bi-weekly ad in  
$7-$11 hr, 35 hrlwk,  Area houses and  Dame, bus stop in front of house,  2B7-4961.  PLEASE CALL 277-1659.  THE OBSERVER.  
summer only.  apartments for rent  surrounded by other srudent  
5 sites in Summit County, Ohio.  Log onto  housing, Laundromat next door,  4 bdrml2 bth house near campus.  THE BEST HOME IS NOW  The Carriage House Dining Room  
Must enjoy outdoor activities.  MichianaRentals.com.  basement available for storage of  $1350. 220-B666.  AVAILABLE FOR THE COMING  is now accepting reservations for  
Visit www.akroncyo.org to  Caii574-993-RENT (736B)  bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc., new  SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-6  our annual Gala Graduation Event  
download an application from the  furnace and central air, new kitchen  Beautiful 4bdrm house, 1.5 baths,  STUDENTS ALL THE AMENITIES  with dinners served Friday, May 19;  
Job Opportunities link.  3,4,5,6 bedroom homes.  including new stove and refrigera- CIA. Gas stove,microwave,fridge, &  2773097  Saturday, May 20 & Sunday, May  
EOE  Web site:mmmrentals.com  tor, large living room for TV or  WID. 2-car garage.  21' 2006.  
FoR SALE  Contact: Gary 574-993-220B or grooms@ ourwebspotnet  entertaining, free trash removal. Call 2B9-4071.  Walk to ND. $1 ,4001mo ($350 per room). 574-277-1B75.  PERSONAL  Call (574)272-9220. Individuals/Clubs: Sell I Love the  
Just 1 block from campus!  Orpheus: For the sake your honor  Irish Flags Great for Dorms &  
4 bdrm I <!bth newly remodeled  515 St.Joe: 7 bdrm.  For lease, 4 brand new 3 bedroom  Come live at the POTATO HOUSE.  and the city of Thebes,  activities! Contact:  
house near campus.  area of student rentals,  condos ranging from $1500-$2200  19237 Cleveland, close to ND.  you must reconcile  Shamrock@ ilovetheirish.com  
$B7,000.  $120!llmo.  per month. 574-243·4554 ext203.  Call Giovanni  with your wife.  or BOB 943-B524.  
220-B666.  57 4-250-7653  No utilities included.  5B6-405-B715.  Public Opinion.  www.ILoveThelrish.com  
- 

-


OUND THE NATION 
Friday, March 24, 2006 COMPILED fROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 

NBA Standings 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pet. GB New Jersey 38-28 .566 Philadelphia 32-35 .478 6.5 Boston 29-40 .420 10.5 Toronto 25-43 .368 14 New York 19-48 .284 19.5 
Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team record pet. GB 
Detroit 54-13 .806 Cleveland 39-29 .574 15.5 Indiana 34-32 .515 19.5 Milwaukee 34-34 .500 20.5 Chicago 29-39 .426 25.5 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
tP-am record peL. GB 
Miami 45-23 .662 Washington 34-32 .515 10 Orlando 25·43 .368 20 Atlanta 21·45 .318 23 Charlotte 19-50 .275 26.5 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pet. GB Denver 39-30 .565 Utah 32-35 .478 6 Minnesota 28·39 .418 .10 Seattle 27-40 .403 11 Portland 20-47 .275 18 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pet. GB 
Phoenix 45-21 .682 
LA Clippers 39-27 .591 6 
LA Lakers 36-34 .514 1:1 
Sacramento 34-34 .500 12 
Golden State 28-38 .424 17 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
team record pet. GB San Antonio 53-15 .779 Dallas 53-15 .779 Memphis 38-29 .567 14.5 New Orleans 32-33 .492 19.5 Houston 29-39 .426 24 
USILA/STX Men's Lacrosse Coaches' Poll 
leam record previous 
1 Virginia 8-0 2 
2 Duke 6-1 3 
3 Cornell 4-0 5 
4 Maryland 4-1 1 
5 Hofstra 4-1 9 
6 Georgetown 4-1 8 
7 Princeton 2-2 6 
8 Navy· 5-1 4 
9 Johns Hopkins 3-2 13 
10 Massachusetts 4-1 7 
11 NOTRE DAME 4-1 11 
12 Denver 4-1 14 
13 Delaware 8-1 12 
14 Pennsylvania 5-0 15 
15 Syracuse 1-3 10 
16 Binghamton 4-1 NR 
17 Albany 3-2 NR 
18 Colgate 5-1 NR 
19 Loyola 3-2 18' 
20 Bucknell 3-3 NR 
around the dial 
MLB SPRING TRAINING Yankees vs. Twins, 1 p.m., ESPN2 
GOLF The Players Championship, 12 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT Regional semi-finals, 7 p.m., CBS 
MLB 


Associated Pres~ 

SAN FRANCISCO Barry Bonds plans to sue the authors and publisher of a book that alleges the San Francisco Giants' slug­ger used steroids and other performance-enhancing drugs. 
Bonds' attorneys sent a letter Thursday to an· agent for the authors of "Game of Shadows," alerting them of plans to sue thp, writers, publisher Gotham Books, the San Francisco Chronicle and Sports Illustrated, which pub­lishnd excerpts this month. 
The letter, signed by Alison Berry Wilkinson, an associate of Bonds' lead attorney, Michael Rains, was posted on the Chronicle's Web Site. A hearing was tentatively scheduled for Friday in San Francisco Superior Court. 
The book by Chronicle reporters Mark Fainaru­Wada and Lance Williams was released Thursday. It claims Bonds used steroids, human growth hormone, insulin and other banned substances for at least five seasons beginning in 1998. 
"We certainly stand by our reporters and the rp,porting they did for us," Chroniclo executive vice president and editor Phil Bronstein said. "Nothing that's happened will change that." 
Bonds' legal team will ask a judge Friday to issue a temporary restraining order forfeiting all profits from publication and distri­bution, according to the let­ter. The lawyers plan to file the suit under California's unfair competition law. 
The Chronicle reported that the attorneys will ask a federal judgp, to initiate contempt proceedings "for the use of illegally obtained" grand jury tran­scripts the authors used in writing the book. The paper also reported that Hains said profits should be forfeited because of that. 
Williams and Fainaru­Wada said the book will stand up to a court chal­lenge. 

"I don't know what the legal action they contem­plate is," Williams said. "Gotham can speak to the legal issues but the facts in our book are true and they will stand up to scrutiny." 
"We fully stand behind our reporting of the book," Fainaru-Wada added. 
Lisa Johnson, a spokfls­woman for publisher Gotham Books, said the publisher supports both authors. "We at Gotham Books are shocked that Barry Bonds would take such a foolish step," slw said. "Any rospected First Amendment lawyer in America knows that his claim is nonsense." 
IN BRIEF 

Vanderjagt signs with Dallas Two Cincinnati _players Vinatieri officially an 
DALLAS --Mike Vanderjagt, the ruled ineligible for NIT Indianapolis Colt NFL's most accurate kicker who was CINCINNATI --Two Cincinnati INDIANAPOLIS --Adam Vinatieri no longer needed in Indianapolis, starters were ruled ineligible arrived in Indianapolis with the 
· signed Thursday with the Dallas hours before the Bearcats' NIT usual expectations --kicking game­Cowboys. quarterfinal Thursday night, the winners and winning champi­
Vanderjagt became dispensable in latest setback for a team that lost onships. Indianapolis after the Colts signed its coach before the season began After spending the last five years Adam Vinatieri this week. Vinatieri and has been plagued with helping the New England Patriots twice hit winning kicks in the Super injuries. win three Super Bowl titles, Vinatieri Bowl for New England, but the The university cited an NCAA wants to do the same with the Colts. Patriots allowed him to test free ruling in the case but did not say "Hopefully many of those kicks are agency. why seniors James White and still with me," he said Thursday 
After depending so long on inexperi­Jihad Muhammad were ineligible. after he was introduced as the Colts' enced or inexpensive kickers, the "We have suspended the players new kicker. "But those kicks are in Cowboys didn't pass on Vanderjagt, a indefinitely for failure to meet the the rearview mirror now, and I'm former Pro Bowl kicker and unrestrict­standards set forth by the NCAA looking through the windshield." ed free agent. and the men's basketball program The signing allows the Colts to 
Vanderjagt has the highest field goal at the University of Cincinnati," switch from having the league's accuracy rate in NFL history (87.5 per­interim head coach Andy Kennedy most accurate kicker, Mike cent) and holds the record for making said in a statement released by Vanderjagt, to having the league's 42 straight. But on his last attempt for the university. most dependable when it matters the Colts during the AFC divisional "Our team will continue in its most--in the playoffs. playoffs in January, he badly missed a attempt to represent this univer­The Colts brought in Vinatieri to 46-yarder that would have forced sity in the manner with which it make sure there wouldn't be a overtime against Pittsburgh. deserves to be represented." repeat. 
TRACK 

I I 


Irish travel to compete in two Arizona meets 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 24, 2006 

I  
I  
I  
I I I I  By JASON GALVAN  ifications out Df the way to focus on training."  events that can potentially have a sizeable impact on  
I I  Sports Wrircr  The Irish  men  and  women  meets.  
I I I I I  Notre Dame Tucson. Ariz. to  travels to take part in  will have an excellent oppor­tunity to meet their qualify­ing standards for the confer­ "The thing with outdoor meets is you always have to adjust for the weather condi­ 
I I  the Wildcat Combined Events  ence  and NCAA  meets this  tions," junior sprinter Okechi  
I I  meet today and the Jim Cliek  weekend if the weather con­ Ogbukiri said. "You have to  
I I  Shootout on Saturday.  ditions prove  to  be  as  favor­ adjust for when it'll be cold  
I I'. I I  Both meets are ·sponsored by the University of Arizona, with tho first meet taking  able as predicted. The Irish are expected to be competing in 80-degree  or windy, whether you have the wind at your baek or not, if it's raining, that sort of  
I I  plaee  on  eampus  and  the  temperatures with  no  signs  thing.  
I  Saturday  meet  slated  to  of bad weather.  "With the transition into  
occur  at Draehman Stadium  The situation is unlike. last  the outdoor season, you gen­ 
in Tucson.  week  at  the  Cal  Poly  erally  see  people's  times  
Thn Irish will  be taking  a  Invitational. where the Irish  improve,"  Ogbukiri  said.  
lirnitnd numbPr of athletes to  faced colder temperatures  "The traek is longer,  so  you  
Tucson.  and a 25-mph head wind that  have  bigger  turns  and  a  
Thn competition, much like  slowed down times for many  longer straightaway, which  
other  narly  nH!ets,  is  of the athletes who may have  makes people with longer  
designPd  to  let several ath­ otherwise gotten their quali­ strides more comfortable."  
letes attempt to get qualify­ fiers out of the way there.  While Postel (200-. 400­ 
ing  times  out  of the  way  "To go  to  an  outdoor meet  meter  runs) and Ogbukiri  
early in  the  season  for the  with great weather. I'm just  (200-. 400-meter runs) look  
Big East ConftHIHlce  meet  exeited and feeling good,"  to  meet  their  qualifying  
and  the  NCAA  Mideast  Postel said. "This weekend in  times, several other members  
Hegional meet.  Arizona .will be 82 and sunny.  of the Irish squad heading to  
This  allows  the  Irish  to  You should  see  some  good  Tucson  are  looking to  meet  
focus  on  more  intense train­ marks from us."  their qualifying marks  or  
ing during tiH~  early part of  While the unpredictability  improve their times, induct­ 
the outdoor sPason and build  of the weather adds a degree  ing junior sprinter Maryann  
strength for the latnr meets.  of difficulty to  the outdoor  Erigha in the 100-meter run.  
"You  really  want  to  get  season,  many of tho athletes  Laura  lluarte in  the  pole  
qualifications early," senior  are still enthusiastie.  vault and Austin Wechter in  
sprinter Hyan Postel said. "It  There  are  a  number  of  the 400-meter hurdles.  
can  be  a  struggle  to  miss  other small dil'ferenees. sueh  PHIL HUDELSON/The Observer  
qualifiers early on  and try to  as  a  longer track length and  Contact Jason Galvan at Senior sprinter Ryan Postel competes in the Alex Wilson  
get it latn. I want to get qual­ an  increased  number  of  jgalvan@nd.edu Invitational at Loftus Sports Complex March 3.  

SMC GOLF 

Belles to challenge Northern Kentucky in first dual tneet 
tlwir most recent contest at hand, recorded a 339 in their senior eaptain Nicole Bellino high note by getting a bid to
By BECK! DORNER 

the Lady Moe golf elassic at last round at the delivered an R 1 to tho national tournanwnt in 
Sport' Writer 

tho ClevPiand Heights Golf Shamrock "We have a great earn 50th place. May ..for the. fourth year in a Club in Lakefield. Fla .. Invitational at team this year with Mattia, the MVI' row, slw sa1d. Tlw BPIIes look to build on Northern Kentucky tallied a the Tega Cay of the M IAA Bellino and fellow senior
four graduating 

a 13th placP finish at the l'inal round total of 323 on the Country Club League during the captain Kirstlln Fantom will Shannock Invitational when 5,997-yard, par-72 course to (par-72. 5,R42 seniors who all want fall season of this fight alongsido Mattia and thny lo1·k horns with Nortlwrn l'inish in 11th plaee. yards) hosted by to end the year. said the team senior Erin Mc<)ueen to try to Kf'ntucky in a dual nwnt this Thoir top scorer, Alicia Winthrop has high expecta­help the team reach its poten­
season on a high

eoming wnekPrHI at the 1'1~rry Lawrnnen, tied for 1Rth with University in tions for the tial. 
note ... " 

Park Golf Course, a long par-a final round score of 76, South Car·olina. spring snason. According to Colfstat.com. 
72. while their next top per­The Belles "We have a great that potential places tho 
T lw i r s c o r e s e v ~~ nl y fornwr was Kelsey Gauthier. were led by Megan Mattia team this year Hellos No. 4 nationally among matched with Northern who tied in 39th with her Megan Mattia's with four graduat­the top Division Ill teams in
Belles golfer 

Kentucky. the BPiles will nePd fin a I round score of Rl. 20th plaee finish ing seniors who all their annual ranking. The to be on top of tlwir ganw. In The Belles, on the other and low seore of 74. while want to end the season on a National Golf Coaches 

Friday, March 24, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 

============================================================================= 
---~ 
-
SMC TENNIS 



Belles host a pair of conference foes Saturday 
winning streak. All three of ning streak." Wednesday when the Belles Before the Belles take on
Team looks to extend 
those victories occurred dur­Defeating Olivet also gave compete against a Hope team Aquinas Saturday evening,four-game win streak ing the team's annual trip to Saint Mary's its first confer­that finished second in confer­they will play conference foe Orlando over spring break. ence win of the season as the ence last year. Adrian earlier in the after­
After losing Belles look to But right now, all of the noon. 
three of four "One ofour biggest improve on last team's focus is on Adrian and Adrian is coming off a 9-0 By GREG ARBOGAST matches to open goals every year is year's fifth Aquinas. loss to last year's conference Sports Writer the season, place finish in Of the two, the Belles expect champion, Albion.
winning the conference, 
Saint Mary's the MIAA. While to receive a tougher challenge The loss drops the Bulldogs 
Coming off its 6-3 victory recent win so keeping the girls last Tuesday's from Aquinas, a team that to 0-4 on the season, but over Olivet College, Saint streak has come focused won't be a big victory gets the boasts a 5-2 record coming Stevenson doesn't expect his Mary's looks to extend its win­at a good time. team off to a into this weekend's match. players to take their confer­
problem."

ning streak against Aquinas "We had some good start in Although Aquinas is coming ence rival lightly. College and Adrian College at sick players and conference play, off a loss to Temple University, "On-e of our biggest goals home this Saturday. some injured Dee Stevenson the real test still the Saints won five matches in every year is winning the con­
Last Tuesday's win over players who got Belles coach awaits as last a row before falling to ference, so keeping the girls Olivet was the fourth in a row better towards year's Saint Temple. focused won't be a big prob­for the Belles, who have also the end of our time in Mary's team swept its matches "If we want to beat Aquinas, lem," he said. defeated Minnesota State -Florida," Belles coach Dee against Olivet. we're really going to have to Moorhead, Bentley and Stevenson said. "That played That first real conference keep our concentration levels Contact Greg Arbogast at Milsaps during their current in a big role starting our win-test will take place next up," Stevenson said. garbogas@nd.edu 
ROWING 
Irish journey to Michigan for Lubbers Cup Rowing Regatta 
Northern Michigan, Grand volume and intensity," coach 
By TIM KAISER 
Valley State, Western Martin Stone said after last Sports Writer 
Michigan and the University of weekend's races. "We were Western Ontario. very productive The Notre Dame women's Notre Dame will and efficient ...
"We spent ... our

rowing team is set to compete compete in both and got a lot of in this Saturday's Lubbers Cup the four-and spring training things accom­Rowing B.egatta held at Grand ·eight-person boat plished."
very hard in terms
Valley State in Grand Rapids, races and will The teams will
ofvolume and

Mieh. enter three varsity score points for 
The Irish will take on a boats in the four­intensity." finishing in the number of dub teams as well person races, two top three in as the University of Michigan varsity boats in each race, with
Martin Stone

and Eastern Michigan, the the eight-person the team finish­
Irish coach 

only other varsity squads com­races and two ing first winning peting in the event. novice boats in the "Don" 
Schools sending club teams the eight-person races. Lubbers Cup, named after include the University of "We spent ... our spring Arend D. "Don" Lubbers, Dayton, Michigan State, training very hard in terms of president of Grand Valley 
FLY FOR FREE NEX'f WEEl<! 
11 ~"='.J \oe e••er dreamed of being. bt:hind the cranhol~ n)llu.ft Jt,l~:e~t(!d. vt€-11 c~:arar.1t.;~ ')\lt; ·~ or an aiq;f-3 nc. tin'$ JS. ·,our ehanr:e 1o1in~ out what 1rE:Eo ~ltigh1 ~-=hoD I, oller 1uitior; anis.1a ntc it's :eatyli~e. :JOC som~Cay J}llt ~'Q:J tn ~Harrier, .-... 
.\Marine Corps. pilct is cam ing 1a r1ollc Oa mr on 
Cobra ar UP-.-L8 flarnet ·. :a. ~. . . 
if.
w·£-artef.;:lai: UJ;rch 30. t~ IJ~.e yQu on 1ria1 fligh~s. 
Get in fire air. " t~ 1/Jc·r~ bckin& r·:< .ll fe·~ COIIer,e $hldents W~!! ha·n~ Jiat $MJe lnformallbtJ. f' :·ffi lhe sm~rts. skills and mlues.t Ia t.r a1J.anflt pHct. rtre flight is 011 u~. 
.....::: 

RESERVE YOUR SEAT TODAY! 
1st lt Barclay or Cunn ery Sgt. Templeton 765-479-1275 OSOlAF@SMC0. USMC.Mil 
MARtNE OFFICER PROGRAMS 
MulaeOffleer.com 

State from 1969 to 2001. Contrary to popular belief, the meet has nothing to do with the seafaring insult "landlub­ber." 
The Irish are competing to get ready for next weekend's San Diego Classic, where they will compete against schools including the Naval Academy, the University of Washington, Long Beach State, San Diego State, UC-San Diego, UCLA, UC-Santa Barbara, Harvard, Yale, Stanford, UC-Berkeley, Duke and the University of Virginia. 
Notre Dame is coming off of a solid performance in last 
Offering 
affcn:Jsbie 
flying lessons from Souttl Bend Regional Airport 

. weekend's meet against Minnesota and Tennessee. The team's varsity eight-person boat, made up of Eileen Froehkle, Julie Sobolewski, Amanda Polk, Mary Quinn, Laura Pearson, Allison Marsh, Melissa Felker, Andrea Doud and Sarah Palandech, finished third, third and second in three rounds of racing. The Irish had their best time in the third race, finishing in 4:48.09, a time that they hope to improve on at the Lubbers Cup. 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 

Worlds Most Advanced Tanning, For a Perfect Tan 
-

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 24, 2006 
-
======~================================================================~ 


Texas roundup: Squad to play Horns, Aggies 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
Some say everything's bigger in Texas -and that includes challnngns on the tennis court. 
This weekend. the Irish trav­nl to Austin to face No. 5 Texas on Saturday and thnn to Colleg1~ Station to take on No. 22 Texas A&M. 
"I think I know them both very well." eoaeh Bobby Bayliss said. "[Texas) beat us 4-3 here last year, and they have pretty much the same toam back. They added one nnw player who's playing in the lower half of' the lineup, and they'rn vnry talented." 
In addition. Texas' Travis llnlgnson, ranked No. 20 nationally, is the older brother of Irish freshman Brett llelgnson, who stands at No. I 06 in thH country. 
Both tlw Longhorns and the Aggins beat No. :~ Illinois, which dnfnated the Irish 7-0 on Fnb. 7. 
The Irish are ranked No. 15 nationally and take a 15-4 record into Texas. They most recently played five matches over six days, which included an appmtrance in the finals of' the Bltw-Gray National Tennis Classic. 

FirsI on this week's agenda was reeovering from their gru­eling spring break. After taking-Monday off, the team focused on fundamentals and doubles. 
"Tuesday we actually focused really on just fundamentals ofT the ground -really driving the baH with our legs, hitting a lot of !'ross courts. getting baek into a groove," Bayliss said. "When you compete that much, little cracks and fissures start to show up in your game ... you need that solid time to get 



Pregnancy Testing 
~~1 t. lA ~AllE AvE~ ~J~·~JoJ l~~~ I~ONWOOD CIRClE ~1J~~~~o 
www.womenscarecenter.org 
$ $ 



~~ 11ucK
••,fi • $
$ ~ne Per Visit 

-
Exp1res May 2006
;------...---------...-.....-...-...-, 

Gourmet Sandwiches, Salads &Soups 
$ s: 
Plus Fantastic FAIR TRADE Coffees Just aWalk from Campus Open Every Day! 


11ucK' 

Edison Plaza, 1631 Edison Rd, 273-6216 One Per Visit $
CREDIT & DEBIT CARDS ACCEPTED! $Expires May 2oo6 
Carry Out Available 


the fundamentals back." 
The Irish will be forced to adjust to playing outdoors. Although spring break matches were all played outside, the team was unable to practice outdoors in South Bend. 
"Hopefully, we'll get to hit tomorrow evening in Austin when we get in and a little bit Saturday morning before the match. so it won't be a difficult adjustment outdoors," Bayliss said. "At least, I hope it won't." 
Irish players have been gain­ing recognition in singles. In addition to Helgeson, Stephen Bass is No. 14, Sheeva Parbhu is No. 34 and Ryan Keekley is No. 115. 
In doubles, Keckley is ranked with Erie Langenkamp at No. 36 and at No. 44 with Barry King. lie is now paired with Parbhu. but the duo is unranked. 
"lie and Sheeva give us a good chance to win at No. 1," said Bayliss, noting that it is unusual -but not unheard of -for one player to have multi­ple doubles rankings. 
This weekend's matches will he a good test for the Irish as they begin to dose out their season. The team has three matches remaining before the Big East Tournament begins on April 20. 
However, no one is overlook­ing the pair of Texas matches. 
"Texas is for real -they're a legit team," Bayliss said. "They beat Virginia and Duke. They're very good, and they beat Illinois, and A&M beat Illinois." 
The Irish take on the Longhorns at 1 p.m. in Austin and face the Aggies at 1:30 
p.m. in College Station. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
FREE• • • '''~~~~~
'•'l"'9 
('$ 

MEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish hit road to face Pride 
Team ready to battle No. 5 Hofstra group 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
The No. 11 Irish, tourna­ment hungry and standing 4­1 on the season, are always playing for more than pride. This weekend, Notre Dame will take that mentality to Hempstead, NY, where the team will face the No. 5 Hofstra Pride Saturday at 
1:30 p.m. 
Notre Dame enters the con­test carrying a three-game winning streak, including a 9-7 victory over then-No. 20 North Carolina. During that span, the Irish have lost the groundball battle in all three games, but their defense has out-cleared their opponents -a feat they have achieved in every game this year, with an .830 clear percentage compared to the .654 mark to which they have held their 
opponents.  
This  is  also  their  third  
straight game  away  from  
home.  

"It's always tough going on the road," senior eo-captain and midfielder Drew Peters said. "Going on the road to Hofstra to play a top-five team will be a challenge." 
Hofstra (4-1) enters the game on a four-game roll., most recently defeating then­No. 6 Princeton last Saturday to vault the Pride from No. 9 to their current spot in the top five. They also beat defending NCAA champions 
We'll give you 
0 Cash Back 
~ on Any Auto Loan! 
Plus, we offer the same low rate on new and used auto loans . 
Apply today! 



r4 NOTRE DAME 
~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
We will give you one percent (1%) Cash Back of the total amount financed. Offer not valid with any other specials, or in conjunction with any other offers, and may be withdrawn at any time. Refinances of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union loans do not apply. Certain other restrictions may apply. Independent of the University. 
and current No. 9 Johns Hopkins 11-6 earlier in the year. 
The Irish have narrowly missed a tournament invita­tion each of the past three years. In order to make it back to postseason play for the first time since 2001, the team realizes that a win against a top-ranked team is crucial. 
"We need to win a big game," Peters said. "If we get a big win over them, that'll get some momentum and set things up for the rest of the season. Everyone real­izes how big of a game this is." 
Last year, Notre Dame went on the road and defeated Hofstra 9-8 in double over­time. 
Senior attackman Pat Walsh was the hero of last season's game, assisting one goal and scoring six of his own, including the decisive tally with 1:55 left in the sec­ond overtime. If the Tewaaraton Trophy "Watch List" attackman is to post similar numbers Saturday, he must get past first-team All­American senior defenseman Brett Moyer, a fellow Tewaaraton nominee. 
Walsh will have help this year with the return of sen­ior attackman Brian Hubschmann, who missed all of last year due to injury but has been dominating this year. Ilubsehmann leads the Irish in scoring with 10 goals and seven assists. 
Walsh and Hubschmann are two of 11 Irish players returning for the only time this year to play in their 
home state and lacrosse 
hotbed of New York. 

After playing at Hofstra 
last year, Peters expects an 
ideal environment for 
lacrosse fans. 

"A lot of the guys have a lot of family that shows up," he said. "Hofstra is always a great place to play. They have a big stadium that draws 8,000 people for a big game. The whole place erupts when you seon~ a goal." 
Though the Irish controlled most of last year's contest. they almost let it slip away, allowing a late three-goal Pride run to send the game into its first overtime. Similar late game let-ups last week enabled North Carolina and Villanova to make 4-0 and 4­1 runs, respectively, to allow them back into those games. 
Hofstra's only common opponent with the Irish this year has been North Carolina. 
The Pride erased a 5-1 deficit against the Tarluwls to win 6-5 in the last two minutes of the game. 
The Irish entered last year's game in a similar posi­tion with Notre Dame 3-1, but following the win, they closed out the season 3-3 and barely missed a t<JUrna­ment invitation. 
"We had a good week at practice," Peters said. "Everyone is feeling confi­dent. We're goii)g to. play1 our game of lacrosse, and hope­fully, it will take care of itself." 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 


Friday, March 24, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
-
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles set for season opener vs. Engineers 

Observer File Photo 

Junior Laura Hellne scores a run during Saint Mary's 10-5 loss 
to Albion College last April. 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Sports Writer 
The cold weather has kept the Belles inside for many practices this week, but it has not deterred them in preparing for their regular season opener Saturday at Rose-Hulman. Saint Mary's coach Elizabeth Sullivan, along with leading seniors Audrey Gajor and Bridget Grall, have kept the team working hard in the gym. 
"We have been trying to keep up with everything, continuing what we have been preparing all season," Gajor said. 
The Belles have focused on forming a strong all-around squad. 
"We are looking to build off how we did in Florida," Grall said. "A strong defense, a strong offense-both sides." 
Proving that they are a force to be reckoned with both at the plate ·and on the mound, the Belles will turn to offensive and defensive stalwarts like Laura Heline and Kristin Amram to better their odds against the Engineers. Heline went 3-3, hit­ting two home runs and driving in five runs during the Belles' 7-1 victory over Edgewood on March 13. Amram hurled a no­hitter against Defiance on March 15. 
Saint Mary's will have to turn in strong performances on both offense and defense at Rose Hulman, located in Terre Haute, Ind. 
The Engineers are 6-6 and currently No. 1 in fielding per­centage at .976 in the Southern Collegiate Athletic Conference (SCAC). 
Rose-Hulman's sophomore trio of Katie Frey, Katie Yiznitsky and Katie Maggard head the Engineers on both fronts. Frey is hitting .400 with 17 RBis, Yiznitsky is batting .410 with 12 RBis and pitcher Maggard has 45 strikeouts in 
63.2 innings. 
The Belles last met the Engineers in 2004 for a double­header. They dropped both games, 4-1 and 4-3. 
However, the Belles are not concerned with their past per­formances.· 
"That was two years ago," said Gajor of the 2004 meeting. "We have a completely different team. We are prepared this time." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

C ECOUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN



STUDENTS 

The former "Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs" is expanding and seeking new undergraduate student members, regardless of sexual orientation. The newly structured council, the Core Council for Gay and lesbian Students is now accepting applications. 
Applications are available in the Office of Student Affairs (316 Main Building) or on the Core Council web site http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ Applications are due by 5:00 p.m. on Tuesday, March 28, 2006, and can be submitted to the Office of Student Affairs. 
Please visit our web site for more information. 


Coffee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 

Rt.~Slh n1" ha"' ":t~.u1t~111 t!THJlhJpTU\:PI 4''1:-•("lti n ¥'9 fur lht'-> Siltnnt(·r ;mr:i t IK"' h lHft· ~HI fl ·w·,.,.,,.,.• 111 ,,.l• '•'b·• r·
• , . , . -· . ~ a.*.........-.: Ul»·-:!· ~ ... ~"'! h.-~--~--" 
ll:'L:urn<~ "' jUfi nr t:h;~ I~('!:, Sp-f~n-·4 f";uni l:y ">hJn: in rhe J'') uf hdpi.ng 1 ,,h,:·r~ anal tt t!tJt·i 1 r..:·~~t'~"<lfiVi'WJ ;Ji_qiJ:... 
App(icA.ttcm!ll ae m-vfilwble no fiine Qi: te·t:~s•wtrt£ii'KI.IN:Ju L'W rttr visl4irtr• m.ho R:SRC,
r""" ... ~ 

nf:5l C1)fl) at.M:In \¥ill M ~·( .•_.·.-_•.-.-. !1} -•.. ·. ·-···.-~ r.ppljtJnw ~Y f!tpr:fl 7. 
QucstHm!t call [I ,t)I 00 
Tuesday, March 28 7:30-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 

The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends. and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone IS welcome and confidentiality IS assured 
Coffee and refreshments will pe served 

caRE COUNCil 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 

-
STUDENTS 


r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, March 24, 2006 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
-

Coyne 
continued from page 24 
that after watching game film, the poor performanees that hurt Notre Dame the most were squandered see­ond-half scoring opportuni­ties. 
"The game film showed the players what they 1:ould have done in the second half," Coyne said. "They saw that there anl a lot of opportuni­ties they didn't take bncause they ditln't know they were there." 
So far this "Focusing on week, the Irish 
ourselves has been 
have been focused on fixing a very important thnsn mistakes in aspect ofour vision on the 
success this

f'ield -not on Canisius. their 
season. 

upcoming oppo­
rwnt. Meaghan Fitzpatrick Starling 
Irish defenseman
defenseman Meaghan Fitzpatrick said Coyrw has kept practices n~latNI t.o mistakPs from pre­vious ganws and has trim! to fix as many mental and phys­il:al Prrors as possibl1l. 
"Northwestern left us a lot of things to work on," l'itzpalrirk said. "Coach Coyrw has workPd on lark­ling all. of thosP things all over the fildd -dnfensn, rn i d f'i e I d . d i ffp r n n t k i n d s of attack -to hPip us improve from last game." 
This ll1eory of practicn has worked well so far this sea­son, loading llw Irish to a lop ranking in the Big East and a No. 17 ranking in the NCAA. Coyne's focus on her team has also helped them gain confidence. 
"Focusing on ourselves has been a very important aspect of our success this season," Fitzpatrick said. "We would mess things up that we might not have messed up other­wise if we focus too much on what the other team is going to do and not enough on what we need to do." 
But as much as Coyne and the Irish would like to stay 
focused on their own team, the Canisius game 
looms Saturday 
as the first test for Notre Dame after its only loss this season. 
"It's very important to play really well in this game after a dis­
appointing loss I t o Northwestern I." Fitzpatrick said. 

"llopefully, we can rebound in the best possible way with a win." 
And Coyne has even bigger plans· for this season, includ­ing a trip deep into the post­SI~ason. 
''We are halfway through the season at this point and hav1~ fifteen good halves in eight games," she said. "We aro moving forward -hope­fully to the NCAA tourna­ment." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 

Junior mldfielder Kaki Orr patrols the field during an 18-6 win over Ohio University on Mar. 2. 
Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning SCHOLARS IN THE CLASSROOM SERIES 
Presented by: 


Alasdair Macintyre 
Pmfessor of Philosophy, University of Notre Dame 
Monday, March 27, 2006 DeBartolo Hall, Room 129, 4:00pm 
Phone (574) 631-9146 • Email kaneb@nd.edu • http://www.nd.edu/-kaneb/ Register Online at http://www.nd.edu/-kaneb/events/register.shtml 

Iowa 
continued from page 24 
mean anything if you're not playing great tennis. If you're having an off day, any team you play will take advantage." 
Although the Hawkeyes cur­rently stand at 9-2 for the season, Iowa is coming off a pair of 4-3 wins against Kansas March 11 and Kansas State the following day. 
Leading the Hoosiers this season are the No. 40 doubles pair of junior Meg Racette and sophomore Jacqueline Lee. 
In addition to being ranked in doubles, Hacette is current­ly No. 33 in singles. Following Haeette is Mili Veselinovic, No. 104. 
"They are capable of giving us difficult matehes," junior Catrina Thompson said. "So we know that we just have to focus on the match and not worry about rankings or win­ning streaks." 
Thompson has led the Irish this season in both singles and doubles. 
She is currently No. 30 in singles and No. 3 in doubles with her lcammato and sister Christian fhompson. Christi an Thompson is the only other player from Notre Dame to be ranked in singles at No. 74. 
"We have done pretty well in doubles this season," Catr·ina Thompson said. "But we are focusing on every 
. match and hope to continue to play well." In addition to the Thompson sisters. the pairing of sopho­more Brook Buck and fresh­man Kelcy Tefft is nationally ranked at No. 29. "Brook and Kelcy have played really well l'or us tliis season," Catrina Thompson said. "If we're having an ofT 

day,  we  can  always count on  to  Nashville, Tenn.  to  f'aee  
IBuck  and  Tefft)  to  pull  Vanderbilt on March 2Y.  
through and help  our  team  
win the doubles point."  
Following the match against  Contact Dan Tapetillo at  
Iowa. Notre 'Dame will  head  jtapetil@nd.edu  

What's your scholarship? 

Friday, March 24, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Hoyas 
continued from page 24 
Thornton, a senior left-ban­der, was named the Big East pitcher of the week on Monday for his complete game, five-hit shutout of Southern Illinois in the championship of the Irish Baseball Classic last week in San Antonio. It was the fifth time -the second this sea­son -that Thornton has received the award, placing him second all-time in most Big East pitcher of the week honors. 
Thornton threw only 84 pitehes -64 of them for 
strikes -and didn't walk a runs and 15 RBIS with a .453 batter in the nine-inning batting average on the sea­blanking against the Salukis · son and was named to the on Mar. 18. preseason all-Big East team. 
"I'd take a few more of Manship, a junior Tom Thornton's -r i g h t h a n d e r , 
84-pitch ·s h u t o u t s , "  ''I'd take a few  Samardzija, a jun­ior righthander,  
Mainieri said of  more ofTom  and  Thornton  
his hopes for his  Thornton's 84-pitch  must  also  deal  
starters' work­load this week­ shutouts. "  with junior catch­er Brandon Davis,  
end.  "If any  of  who  has  been  a  
them want to give  Paul Mainieri  strong plate pres­ 
us  one  of those,  Irish head coach  ence for the Hoyas  
I'd  be  happy  to  this  season.  He is  
accept it."  batting .403 with  

Georgetown first baseman one home run and 17 RB!s. and designated hitter Ryan "First of all, anytime you Craft brings the big stick off go on the road, it is tough in­the bench in the Hoyas' line­conference," Mainieri said. up. Craft has three home "Second of all, Georgetown 
got our attention last year by son. beating us here. I think "If you win the regular sea­they're going to be tough son championship, it gives games, and you an inside track hopefully we'll to a NCAA bid," play well in all "First ofall, Mainieri said. our phases and A fifth straight
anytime you go on
get off to a good Big East title and start." the road, it is seventh straight Getting off to tough NCAA tournament a good start bid are Notre
in-conference."
against the Dame's long terms Hoyas is only goals, but for this the beginning of Paul Mainieri weekend, only the a tough 27-Irish head coach Hoyas are in the game Big East sights of Manship, schedule. Samardzija, Mainieri and his Irish nine Thornton and the rest of the have plans not only to make Irish bats. the newly-expanded eight­team Big East tournament, Contact Kyle Cassity at but to win the regular sea-kcassily@nd.edu 
Broncos 
continued from page 24 
Tricia VanDerSilk, another Bronco starter, has also been making headlines with her MAC West Pitcher of the Week award earlier this month. 
The Irish offense will have to try to lind a way to pro-freshman Brittany Bargar were at the top of their games in the Judi Garman Classic. Booth allowed only one earned run in last week's 4-3 loss to No. 6 Alabama. 

The Irish hope that they can turn those close losses from last week into wins in the regional and conference schedule that they start this weekend by playing close to 
duce runs against home against
"You have to go
these tough pitch­weaker competi­ers. Five of the into every game tion. team's 10 losses At this point in
with confidence 
have come when the season, Notre
thinking that you 
held to fewer than Dame is only 3-8 in three runs. will hit each contests decided by 
"You have to go pitcher hard." one run, including into every game 0-3 in extra with confidence innings.
linda Kohan
thinking that you "We are going to will hit each pitch­Irish infielder get down to busi­er hard," said ness just like in Linda Kohan, who any other game, leads Notre Dame and we should in home runs with four. "We come away with the win," are going to be just fine and Kohan said. do well this weekend." After its trip to Kalamazoo, 
The team will look to its own the team will head home to powerful pitching staff to open up Big East play next combat the Broncos and hold week at Ivy Field. them in check as long as pos­sible. Contact Dan Murphy 
Both Heather Booth and at dmurphy6@nd.edu 


-
Friday, March 24, 2006


Think Pad" recommends Microsoff Windows· XP Professional 
ThinkPad. 

~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
SAVE UP TO 37% OFF PERSONAL PURCHASES 
free shipping with all online orders 

_ leno11o 
LENOVO AND THE NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE TEAM UP TO BRING YOU GREAT SAVINGS ON THINKPADS 
AND PC ACCESSORIES 
As part of the Notre Dame student, faculty or staff community, you can take advantage of great savings on legendary ThinkPad notebooks and PC accessories. 
To take advantage of these special offers and more, click or call 
www.lenovo. com/shop/dea ls/notredame 
1-877-222-6426 Option 1, ext 8218 ThinkPad is a product of lenovo 
Warranty: For acopy of applicable product warranties, write to: Warranty Information, P.O. Box 12195. RTP. NC, 27709, Attn: Dept JDJAIB203. Certain IBM and ThinkPad logo products: are not manufactured, warranted or supported by IBM or Lenovo. IBM and Lenovo logos and trademarks used unde• license Contact Lenovo for details. Trademarks: The following are trademarks of Lenovo:, ThinkPad and ThinkCentre. IBM and the IBM logo are registered trademarks of IBM and are used under license. Other company, school. product and service names may be trademarks or service marks of other companies. @2006 Lenovo. All rights reserved. Visit www.lenovo.com/safocompullng periodically for the latest Information on sole and effecllve compullng. 

Friday, March 24, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
-
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name Address _______________________________________ City _______ State _____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Keri Russell, 30; Chaka Khan, 53; Roger Bannister, 77; Rachel E. Stevens, 23 
Happy Birthday: If you act too fast this year, you may lose ground. Make sure everything is in place before you present your idea. Money is in the picture but don't waste it on lottery tickets. Trust in your own abilities and your finances will improve. A business idea you have considered in the past can now be implemented. Your numbers are II, 13, 18, 26, 34,47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't get emotional about something that might happen. Focus on the here and now. If you are professional and do your job to the best of your ability, you will get ahead. Perseverance will pay off. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Position yourself so that you can get what concerns you dealt with and out ofthe way. You will impress everyone around you but expect someone to feel threatened or jealous of your strong controlling efforts. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll be able to accomplish a lot today. Look at all your options and prepare to make a change that will satisfY you professionally and financially. An opportunity will arise through someone you impressed in the past. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may have trouble with personal judgment. 
There is a good chance you may take things the wrong way or give the wrong 
impression, so keep things out in the open. You'll feel so much better once you 
clear the air. *** 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be honest with yourself if you want to get anything 
accomplished today. Someone who is serious-minded will be entertaining and will 
spark some ideas you never considered before. Add your opinions to the mix and 
a partnership is likely.*** 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Ifyou get out and socialize, you will make a connection 
with someone who interests you personally and professionally. A pleasure trip 
should be in the works. This is an excellent time for love and romance. ***** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Forget about your worries and get out with friends. 
You can't change the dynamics of the r.elationships at home right now, so avoid 
getting into deep discussions. Do something that will make you feel good about 
yourself and the way you look. ** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You should be considering what you can do to put 
your creative ideas and talents to the test. A relationship or creative partnership you 
have been considering should be discussed in detail. Draw up an agreement. **** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be considering changing your 
professional direction but, before you do, consider whether or not you need to pick 
up more skills. Don't limit yourself because someone is not in favor ofyour making 
changes*** 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't be so hard on yourself. Work ifyou feel 
like doing so and, if someone doesn't like your decision, that is his or her problem, 
not yours. Stand up for what you want if you want to be successful. *** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will have to be discreet ifyou want to avoid 
trouble. Being secretive will enable you "to follow through with your plans with 
fewer obstacles. Authority figures may pose a problem for you so abide by the 
rules. ••• 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Get moving if you want to take advantage of a 
financial opportunity. A great idea may not pan out because the timing is wrong. 
You will have more than one choice and each will lead in a different direction.**** 
Birthday Baby: You are a big thinker, diligent in all you pursue. You are progressive, outgoing and willing to put yourself on the line for your beliefs. You are emotional, willing to make sacrifices and determined to win. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS
JOCKULAR 


CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 30 Equals 67 Elton John, e.g. 
1 Big maker of 33 Rodeo rope 68 Flip out metal products 34 "Must be 69 Michelins or 6 "The Fox and something_" Pirellis the Grapes" 
35M author 
42 Massage deeply DOWN 11 The "it" in "Step 
43 Hotmail 1 "This is for on it!" 
alternative Superman!" 141mam's 
44 c 2 Worms or grubsdeclaration 
3 Setting of the 15 Shelley's movie "Eight 
50 Classmate 
51 Challenged

"Cheers" role Crazy Nights" 52 Get an
16 Prov. on 4 Stable bit? 
(ace)Niagara Falls 5 Drinks stirred in53 Prenatal test,

17 Egg-shaped pitchers
for short 18 E 6 Title subject of 
55 Halloween wear a 1975 T ruff aut 20 London's Big 57 Morse Tony-

film winning role 

7 E = mc2 
21 "Do the Right 59 Squared (first presented Thing" pizzeria 
9/27/1905) 23 Actor Bruce 
62 Like a game in 

which batters 8 Mediterranean 24 Good-for-bat .000 isI. nothing 64 6 on a phone 9 Yoko 
26 Some Baltic 65 Many an 1oOne of the lvys residents ex-dictator 
11 Modern means 32 Actress Lotte 41 Ages and ages 54 Designer 29 Jazz's Fitzgerald 66 Not just fat of search Cassini
36 Auctioneer's 44 Jerks 
12 "Measure for 56 Granny_
shout 45 Sana'a native 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Measure" villain 
58 Salt Lake City 37 Italian sports 
46 Yoda, to Luke car, briefly
13 Minnesota collegians
Skywalkercollege 
60 Prefix with 19 Place 47 Elton John, e.g.
38 avis skeleton 

-=+~=+::::+::--1-:-1 22 PC key 39 "Nuts!" 48 Collected 61 Darken 25 "Get the 
40 Event on the 49 Nonvinyl 63 Formal Church on 
horizon records, briefly Japanese wear Time" 
27 30-second spot, For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a e.g. 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions ar.e available for the best of Sunday 
~~tQ!Eln~~~~mr-rr-ttrtlr~ 28 Exam with a
~ perfect score of crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
2400 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 -=+-=+-:+:+.:-! 30 Part of a chorus past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).line? 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young ___..__,_~.;...&...--' 31 Lizard: Prefix solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
CROISSANTWORLD 
t-IE~, KID'S. V.JE. l)ONT 
HAVE. FfZ-p.TS, BL\T I-lEA~ Kt. OU\ oN SOME. C.'r\P..NuE.S WE. COV.L.b MA\::E.. 10 MAKE.. Nb KIN!:> OF" SE..E.M \..IKE:. A 
~R"E.E.'K 5~ ~IE.M. 
~US\ S\.0..'\ IN -rnt.. 'DORM~ ANt> \f\/E.'LL :>v.~\ 
C..I-IANC::!E. ALL -n-\€. J)Oi''"" NAI'\E'i. \0 '<:>'l M E:.O\.. ":. • KNOTT 
&..C.oME.S #-1. ~ f>..ND, oN At--~t> So "1"~1\-l . 
ANI) ON TRO'::>I-\ 0' 'jou C..t:>.N PLt."D<.t€:.. "\b I"HE.. "\)OR!"\ J'.,t-\C> (::l'i::.T URI..l.t--\~ IN""::.\'C.f>..\) o~ SPRA-'jlt-ll-\ E p..c~ o\~o~t.R Will-I S11..1.-~ S\R\Nl-1 foR. A>N. "VVE.£.\(..E.Nt::>. D£.A.\...? 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
THYAS 
± 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
LEBIE 
I 
rJ lu
tGRONTS 







IJ I 
www.jumble.com 
EURUFT 
CIJ 


A:  A rI I I I JOF  .. rI I I I I J  
(Answers tomorrow)  
I Jumbles:  SCARY  BRINY  PAUPER  THRASH 

Saturday's 

Answer: When the robber was caught on the steps, the cops said it was-A STAIR "CASE" 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 


WHAT THE: KING E.XPEI<IENC.E:O WHE:N HE WA5 AWAKENED BY THE PROTE5TER5. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
-
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, March 24, 2006 page 24 
BASEBALL 
Capitol cuts 
Manship, Thornton and Samardzija set to pitch in three-game series against Georgetown 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
The big three in the Notre DamH pitching rotation ­J n f'f Manship, Jeff Samardzija and Tom Thornton -will hoist the rnsin hag in a throe-game serins with Georgetown this wenk1~nd in Bethesda, Md. 
The weekend series marks the opnning of' 2006 Big East conf'ernnen play for the Irish, who boast a 10-7 record on the year, all in non-eonf'nrnnce games. Georgetown holds a 10-12 reeord and will host the serins -as wnll as all of its home games -at Povich Finld. Povich Field is the home of the Bethesda Big Train, a Cal Hipken, Sr. Collegiate Baseball League team. 
Irish head eoach Paul Mainieri said he will not limit the workload of any of his three starters, other than thB 110-pitch ceiling he rarely allows any of his pitchers to exceed. 
"They're in midseason form, and their endurance is good," he said. "Within rea­son, we're going to let them go. We would watch pitch­er's counts closely, anyway." 
Freshman righthander David Phelps delivers a pitch in his first home start on Wednesday see HOYAS/page 21 against Central Michigan. Phelps lasted three and two-thirds innings, and the Irish won 11-9. 

NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish host Havvkeyes at the Eck 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 

The undefeated No. 2 Irish return to the Eck Tennis Pavilion today to face the No. 39 Hawkeyes at 3 p.m. Notre Dame is heading back to the courts a week after going 4-0 over top 50 teams during spring break, including a win over then-No. 11 Texas on March 20. 
Last week, the Irish topped the Longhorns 7-0 and extended their winning streak against top-30 teams to nine. The Longhorns were runners-up in last year's NCAA Championship and the highest-ranked team ever to lose 7-0 to the Irish. 
However, despite its suc­cessful week against top com­petition and a 15-0 record to match the program's best start, Notre Dame is not look­ing past any teams. 
"We have gotten off to an incredible start this season. Everyone has been playing great tennis, especially against the top teams in the country like Duke and Texas," senior Kelly Nelson said. "But rankings don't 
see IOWA/page 20 

WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Laxers enter home stretch 
No. 10 Irish ready to take on Canisius after loss to No.1 Northwestern 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
With the season half over, No. 10 Notre Dame (7-1) hopes to stay successful against Canisius (5-3) at home Saturday. 
The team played the biggest game of the season over spring break, a 21-12 loss to unanimous No. 1 Northwestern (6-0). Although the Irish lost the game by a wide margin, they still showed promise against a strong team, holding a 9-8 lead going into halftime. But poor per­formances in the second half -in which the Wildcats outscored Notre Dame 13-3 ­cost the game for the Irish. 
Irish coach Tracy Coyne said 
see COYNE/ page 20 

ND SOFTBALL 

Irish try to buck the Broncos in avvay gatne 
Team looks to recover from consecutive losses 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will take a short trip up to Kalamazoo, Mich. this weekend to take on the Broncos of Western Michigan. After consecutive one-run losses to top-1 0 teams, the Irish will look to pick up some momentum at Fran Ebert Field. 
"We really aren't too intim­idated by [Western Michigan]," freshman out­fielder Alexandra Koteheff said. "We aren't too worried about the game -we just need to play the way we can." 
The Broncos, although not quite the caliber of team Notre Dame has been play­ing during the past few weeks, will certainly force the team to play at its best if the Irish want to win. Western Michigan comes into Saturday's contests with a record of 10-5 after a pair of shutout victories over Loyola Chicago earlier this week. 
The Ramblers managed only three hits against Western Michigan in the two games, thanks to pitcher Krysten Shumaker's no-hit­ter in the second game. Shumaker (5-1) has been lights out all season on the mound, holding her oppo­nents to a batting average of .133. 
see BRONCOS/page 21 

en 
MEN~S LACROSSE
SMC SOFTBALL 

MEN'S TENNIS 
SMC TENNIS 

ROWING 
TRACK AND FIELD 
w

1-
C.) Belles at 
Irish c:1t 

Irish at 
Adrian at 
z Engineers 
Pride 

Longhorns 
Saint Mary's 

The Irish travel to 
Notre Dame journeys 

Grand Rapids, Mich. to 
to Arizona to take part

a: 5 
Ct 
c.=s Saturday, 1 p.m. 
Saturday, 

Saturday, 1 p.m. 
Saturday, 9 p.m. 

compete in the Lubbers' 
in the Wildcat 
1:30 ll.m.
Laura Heline leads 

Notre Dame also set 
The Belles look to 

Cup Rowing Regatta on 
Combined Events today
cs: 
Saint Mary's against 
The Irish look for 

to play Texas A&M. 
build on four straight 

Saturday at Grand 
aod the Jim Click 
fourth win in a row. 
Rose-Hulman. 
conference wins. 
Valley State. 
Shootout on Saturday.

a.. ... C( 
en 
page 19 
page 19 
page 19 

page 17 
page 17

page 19 








