

THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Juniors, parents enjoy successful weekend together 
VOlUME 40: ISSUE 91 MONDAY. FEBRUARY 20,2006 

Parking tickets surprise students 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
Students who drive on cam­pus and find themselves tempted by the convenience of parking illegally during quick trips to Rolfs or the Bookstore are being slapped with park­ing !'ines steeper than they imagined. 
Senior Anna O'Connor said she received her first warning for parking ncar the LaFortune Student Center without a parking pass and consequently was not required to pay the $15 line. 
But when she received her second violation for the use of an unauthorized parking 
PHIL HUDELSON!The pass, she was fined $100 from 
NDSP Captain Joseph Araman gives a parking ticket by Stepan the Office of Residence Life 
Center. Parking Illegally means big fines for some drivers. and Housing and placed on 

'Monologues' draw crowds, praise 
Original stories by SMC community lauded 
By KELLY MEEHAN A,,,istant News Ediwr 
The second annual SMC Monologues relat11d tho emo­tionally stirring personal nar­ratives of Saint Mary's stu­dents, faculty, staff and Sisters of Thn lloly Cross to large crowds in two weekend performances, raising more than $750 for S.O.S. the local rapn crisis cnnter, and the 
Y.W.C.A. 
Twenty-seven actresses per­formed tho original mono­logues in Saturday evening and Sunday afternoon produc­tions that worn mod11lcd after Eve Ensler's "The Vagina Monologues." 
"You couldn't have the SMC Monologues anywhere else," senior actress Stephanie Snyder said. "The culture, the context -it is our space, our words, our stories, our pain, our joy, our lives. These monologues are by our com­munity, for our community." 
Campus Alliance for Hape Prevention faculty advisor and psychology professor Catherine Pittman said the personal touch of the SMC Monologues fosters a better response than "The Vagina Monologues." 
"We could do 'The Vagina Monologues,' but we choose to do this because it's the best 
see SMC/page 3 

parking probation, which pro­hibits her from parking on campus until she graduates. 
Limited campus parking means many students inevitably rack up parking tickets and violations., and Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) Associate Director Phil Johnson said NDSP works to enforce fair parking policies. 
Parking violations account­ed for 12.2 percent of discipli­nary incidents handled by the Office of Residence Life and Housing during the 2004-0.5 academic year -second only to intoxication in the overall number of reported discipli­nary incidents, according to a Nov. 17. 2005 Observer arti­cle. 
To introduce students to the 
see PARKING/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Concert response mixed 
Mellencamp big draw, but price high for some 
By MARY KATE MALONE Assistant News Editor 

For tho Jacks and Dianes of Notre Dame, no priee is too high to see John Mellencamp live. 
But for many fans, tho $3(J to $46 dent his upcom­ing concert at Notre Dame will leave in their pockets will hurt just a little too good . 


.. 1 was Mellencamp planning on going, and thnn I saw the price," freshman David Patterson said. "I think if it was $10 or $15 I'd prob­ably go ... I would have gone if it was more reasonable." Mellencamp, a Seymour, Ind. native, will perform at the Joyce Center Arona on Tuesday, April 18 at 8 p.m .. it was announced Friday. Notre Dame is the last stop 
o n M n II e n c a m p 's 1:{ -ei t y "Words and Musie 2006" tour. Mnllnneamp will pnr­form in La Crosse, Wise. beforn coming to South Bnnd. Othnr cities on his tour include Cedar Hapids, Iowa, Youngstown, Oh., and Atlantic City, New .Jersey. 
. The coneert is presentnd by VII-1 and Vll-1 Classic musk channels. Tickets go on saln 
see CONCERTIpage 3 

By MAUREEN MULLEN 
News Writer 
From late nights at The Linebacker to residence hall luncheons, more than 1,200 l'amilins of Notre Dame jun­iors spent this weekend at Notre Damn to take part in the events and eelebrations of the 54th annual Junior Parents Wenkend (JPW). 
The tradition of JPW began in I 952 as a way to expose a student's family to life at the University, and this wenknnd was packed with activities that high­lighted spiritual. academic and social aspects of stu­dent life on campus. 
"I thought it was a very 
well-run event, especially considering the number of people," junior Sarah Benoit said. "It was really nice for my parents to be able to meet and visit with my friends. The events allowed us to relax and get to know one another -something you don't always get to do during the hectic atmos­phere of football week­ends." 
The weekend began with an Opening Gala on Friday evening in the Joyce Center, where families socialized and enjoyed hors d'oeuvres and a cash bar. 
Junior Hoseanne DePaoli said she enjoyed the week­end's events, despite a snowstorm that nearly stranded her mother in her hometown of Sheboygan, Wise. 
"It was a very well-organ­ized event that kept us entertained all weekend," she said. "[We] had a great weekend and my parents made it back home safely." 
Wintery weather in New England proved to be a problem for junior Laura Kelly, whose parents' flight was rerouted to Detroit. 
"They ended up having to drive to South Bend from Detroit," she said. "We had a really fun weekend though. JPW is a great event." 
Saturday's events featured 
see JPW/page 4 


Monday, February 20, 2006

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Inside religion 
The other day, two of my buddies were going back-and-forth about politics with­out really addressing the issues the other brought up. 
"How can you support abortion and euthanasia?" was the obvious answer Ken Fowler to "How can you support drastic cuts 
Sports
to Medlcare and 
Writer
education?" Babble met bab­ble, and babble was winning. 
Neither of the two made an inch of inroads with the other, but they were in luck. A third friend walked into the room, and they redirected the propagan­da persuasion towards him. 
"Dave, what do you think about this stuff-Imean, it's abortion!" Dave wasn't a flamer or a neo-con, but he had his opinions. "Look, it ain't right." 
"And euthanasia?" 
"To be honest, it kind of bothers me." 
But like I said, Dave wasn't an ideo­lo)..,rue. And his other friend tried to prove that point. 
"Now hold your horses, buddy. You guys aren't off the hook that easily. You're cutting Medicare and education funding by billions while racking up insane debts." 
Dave's slight nod of the head made it clear how he felt. "Doesn't sound too good, Dave, now does it?" "Not at all. Shouldn't we be taking care of our kids and the needy?" 
"But Dave, it's worse than that-what they're doing is going to make us techno­logically inferior when we need to com­pete with the integrating EU." 
Dave wasn't all that impressed with the fUrther explanation. 
"Yeah, but even ifit didn't, it's wrong." 
"Well that's the besides the point, because that's what they're leading us to." The other friend now thought he had his chance. 
"I know what you mean, Dave. Things are wrong because they're wrong­case closed." 
Dave agreed, and then the battle ensued. 
"No matter what the effect on GOP per capita or tax rates, I'm saying we shouldn't do some things because they're just wrong." 
Dave nodded his head once again but would soon hear the other side. 
"Medicare and education cuts aren't right, either, Dave. Don't fall into that trap. They hurt our country and they hurt our economy." 
Dave agreed on the premise, but not its reasoning. "You guys, what both of you are saying resonates with me." A double response followed: "Then who's right?" 
"Neither one of you." 
Another double response: "But ifyou had to vote for one of us?" 
Dave was tom. Half of him was on each side, so he had to figure out anoth­er way to decide. 
''I'm split on the issues but not on how you get there. IfI've got to choose between a pragmatist and an idealist on moral issues, I'll side with the idealist. At least he's got a solid foundation for moral choices." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE OLYMPIC SPORT? WHY? 




Brittany Bolden Patrick Keating Eric Shaw 
freshman freshman freshman 
Pangborn Carroll Carroll 
"Bobsledding, "Hockey. ''Alpine skiing because it was Everything's because Bode on 'Cool coming up Miller's the 
.

Runnings Canada." man. andf'm Jamaican. " 
OFFBEAT 

Search for missing show dog called off 
NEW YORK -The search for a missing show dog that got loose at Kennedy Airport was called off Thursday, but officers in the area will con­tinue to "keep their eyes open" for the wayward whippet, officials said. 
In the past 24 hours, "the searchers covered the entire airport property of nearly 5,000 acres but did not spot the dog," said Alan Hicks, a spokesman for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. 
The 3-year-old whippet, 
formally  known  as  
TODAY  
a::  


looks most like soccer. 


be unearthed in 2007 as part of the Oklahoma cen­tennial festivities. 
The 1957 Belvedere is underground next to the Tulsa County Courthouse. Also buried with it were five gallons of gas and a case of beer. 
Old news reports indicate the gas was buried in case internal combustion engines became obsolete by 2007 and no fuel was available. Other buried items include the contents of a woman's purse: 14 bobby pins, a lip­stick, a pack of gum, tissues, a pack of cigarettes and matches and $2.43. 
Champion Bohem C'est La Vie and answering to Vivi, had won an award of merit in the annual Westminster Kennel Club show. The dog apparently escaped her travel cage on the tarmac Wednesday as she was 
· about to be loaded onto a plane for the flight home to California. 
Car buried in 1957 set to 
be unearthered in 2007 
TULSA, Okla. -A Plymouth Belvedere that was buried in a concrete vault nearly 50 years ago as part of the state's golden anniversary celebration will 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
1.&.1 ::1: 
!ci: 
1.&.1 

3: 
..... 
<C 
(,) 






0 

..... HIGH 30 HIGH HIGH 38 
LOW 20 LOW LOW 26 
25 
20 

34 
22 
HIGH LOW 




Fernanda Quijano Jackie Anthony Eric Christianson 
sophomore freshman sophomore Carroll McGlinn O'Neill 
"Hockey, "Men's figure "Curling, because it's the skating because because it one thing that the outfits are makes my mind 
sweet." numb." 
IN BRIEF 
The opening reception of Haiti Awareness Week will take place at 6 p.m. today in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
The Faculty Forum "Engaging The Merchant of Venice: Academic Freedom and Anti-Semitism" will take place Tuesday at 5 p.m. in the 
Philbin  Theater  in  the  
DeBartolo  Center  for  
Performing Arts.  

Debbie Johnson Schibert, Chair of the Saint Mary's Board of Trustees, will speak as part of the "After Graduation: Your Saint Mary's Degree" at 6 p.m. Wednesday in the west wing of The Noble Family Dining Hall. 
Wasted and Wounded II, a tutorial on Internet predators, will take place at 6:30 p.m. Wednesday in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The "Around the World Film Festival" will take place at 7 
p.m. Wednesday in Vander Vennet Theater in the Saint Mary's Student Center. 
Bishop Thomas J. Gumbleton of Detroit will speak at 7:30 p.m. Thursday in the Carey Auditorium in the Hesburgh Library as part of the Catholic Think Tank lecture series. 
Gabriel Meyer, author of "War and Faith in Sudan," will give a lecture at 7:30 p.m. Thursday in room 131 of DeBartolo Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 


40 33 
26 16 

Atlanta 48 I 42 Bos~on 35 I .25 Chicago 34 1.22 Denver 38 I 21 Ho1.1ston 53 I 51 Los Angeles 61 1 42 Minneapolis 26 1 4 New York 38 I 27 Philadelphia 39 I 28 Phoemx 67 I 43 Seattle 61 I 48 St. Louis 45 I 37 Tampa 75 1 58 Washington 43 1 27 

Monday, February 20, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 






Come lead the team 

SUB is now accepting applications for Executive Board positions 
· lloard 1\·fanager, Director of Programming, Chief Controller, Director of Publicity, Director of Operations 
RE1\L LIFE EXPERIENCE 
in ~.fanagetnent, Event Planning, Budgeting and Accounting, Publicity, and Htnnan Resources 
Applieations available in 20:3 LaFortune DUE \Vednesday, February 22nd (Board l\11anager App.) and ~ionday, February 27th (Others) in 815 LaFortune Student Center 
"The best student organization experience on campus" 
Dnspite his afl'inity for



Concert it." 
"classic rock," junior continued from page 1 Nicholas llamilton-Cotter can't justify spending up to at Notre Damn Feb. 25 -and $46 for a chance to see John 
sophomorn !\shiny Conienros can hardly wait. 
"I was pretty stoknd Iwhnn I found out lw was coming! ... I was jumping up and down seroaming a littln. IThn ticket prieol is a little high, but that's what I would pay outside of earn pus so it's not that big of a deal." 
Tickets for the !~ o111~ o r t can bo purchased online, by lnlt~phone or in porson at Gale 10 .1!\CC. 
Want to writ News? Call at 1-53 
"{/"it was a little cheaper I would have gone for the experience of seeing /Mellencamp/ live, but it :r; a little out ofmy price range right now." 
Nicholas Hamilton-Cotter junior 
of the little out of my price range right now." 
lie said he would have con­sidered going if the tickets had been sold "in the $20 range." 
Mellnncamp. 
"I was excited a big name was coming to cam­pus [my friends and II all kind of enjoy that genre of music but I don't think any­one is going because the price is too steep," he said. "If it was a little cheaper I would have gone for the experience of seeing him live, but it's a 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
thing we could do [for the College! community," Pittman 
said. 
Thfl sometimes-controver­sial play "The Vagina Monologues" has not been performed on the campus sinee 2004, but has not banned by the administra­tion, Pittman said. 
Pittman said many mem­bers of the College faculty and administration -induct­ing College President Carol Mooney and Viee President of Student Affairs Linda Timm -attended the weekend per­formances. 
"I think it is a good educa­tional experience for them,· and it is good for them to hear Ithe Monologues I." she said. 
Both Mooney and Timm were audience members at the 2 p.m. SMC Monologues performance on Sunday. 
"This is an especially pow­erful performance because it is the stories of our women," Mooney told The Observer following the Monologues. 
She declined further com­ment Sunday. 
Timm said the Monologues' internal focus on the College community reflects the "courage and great deal of faith" of Saint Mary's stu­dents, faculty and Sisters. 
"I think it is important that we have a variety of pro­grams that present informa­tion on topics of sexuality, personal safety, health and wellness for women, violence 

· against women, et cetera," 
Timm said. "No one approach 
speaks to everyone. Not 
everyone will feel comfort­
able at the SMC Monologues, 
and not everyone will attend 
other programs that we pres­
ent on campus." 
SMC Monologues producer 
Ginger Francis said she was 
very pleased with the event's 
outcome. 
"When !audience members! 
walk out after the SMC 
Monologues, [they! will be 
changed forever," she said. 
"These monologues don't 
represent !everyone!. but 
many people ... I hope they 
will see diversity and break 
the image of there being a 
sole stereotypical Saint 
Mary's woman ... and they 
will suddenly realize they are 
not alone." · 
Junior Becky Susner said 
the SMC Monologues present­
ed an effective message to 
the College community. 
"I thought that it was a 
wonderful experience," she 
said. "It was interesting to see how issues at Saint Mary's are viewed in society." 
Junior Grace Guebnrt said the SMC Monologues were "empowering, memorable and moving." 
"They bring a stronger sense of sisterhood and sup­port to Saint Mary's," she said. 
Center for Women's lntereultural Leadership research analyst and mono­logues actress Joy Evans said the SMC Monologues serve as a "very powerful process for personal, as well as commu­nity healing and growth." 
"I hope people walk away realizing how amazing and complex SMC women ... arn and how important it is for every man and woman to make a personal commitment to end sexual violence in their communitins," Evans said. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaOI @saintmarys.edu 

Freshman Amanda Dosch is also planning to attend. 
"I like him a lot. I was real­ly surprised," she said. "I think it's a little expensive, but John Mollencamp is pret­ty groat so I think it's worth Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
Monday, February 20, 2006 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
ferred to his or her student account. 
Johnson said despite limited resources, NDSP attempts to monitor all parking zones, pay­ing particular attention to handicapped parking, reserved parking and fire lanes. 
"We tow cars after the fourth violation," Johnson said. 
The towing is meant to deter students from continuously paying fines and to open up parking spaces for authorized vehicles, Johnson said. Students who have cars regis­tered with the parking office receive a letter after their fourth violation to inform them their car will be towed on the next offense. 
Johnson said cars are towed immediately when parked in fire lanes or blocking traffic. 
"For some, having to pay a parking fine if cited for parking in the wrong place isn't enough incentive to make good parking decisions," he said. 
In the event a student feels he or she does not d·eserve a park­ing fine, the student can appeal the ticket twice. All appeals and fines for parking citations are addressed at the parking office in Hammes Mowbray Hall by the parking appeals committee,­which consists of students, fac­ulty and staff. 

NDSP is not involved in the appeals process, but does com­municate the decision of the committee back to the student. 
NDSP also receives feedback from the ad hoc parking com­mittee, made up of graduate and undergraduate students, to determine if any potential rule changes should take place regarding campus-parking reg­ulations. 
"Parking rules and fines are established to maintain order and safety on campus," Johnson said. "We hope that people will make good deci­sions when parking and driv­ing." 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 



Parking 
continued from page 1 
University's parking policies, first-time violators receive a warning intended to inform them of campus rules to avoid future illegal parking maneu­vers, Johnson said. Students who receive a warning are not fined. 
"We understand the complex­ity of campus parking regula­tions," he said. "As a result, 
warning ticket in an effort to get people to comply with the rules." 
The complexity of these rules is a source of frustra­tion for many students like sen­ior Anthony Pesce, who received a ticket for parking ille­gally· near the 

NDSP offers the "Parking rules and violation, but 
Reslife fines may
fines are 
exceed NDSP's $50
established to 
maximum. maintain order The most com­
and safety on mon parking viola­
, tions include park­
campus. 
ing in reserved spaces, parking in Phil Johnson non-designated spaces and park­
associate director 
ing on campus
Notre Dame 
without a decal,
Security/Police 
Johnson said. If students pay a 
Joyce Center without a decal. parking ticket within 10 days, 
"How [does NDSPJ know you they receive a 20 percent dis­are in the wrong lot if you don't count on the fine. In the event a have a decal?" he said. student neglects to pay his or 
O'Connor said she understood her ticket, the fines are trans-
JPW 
continued from page 1 
collegiate workshops com­prised of faculty addresses and departmental presenta­tions, as well as residence hall luncheons geared to foster social interaction between students, parents and residence hall staff. 
University President Father John Jenkins cele­brated the JPW Mass Saturday evening, and Jenkins also addressed jun­iors and their families dur­ing a dinner at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse that evening. 
"It was good for my par­ents to see the campus for a time other than a football weekend," junior Ryan McSpadden said. "It was also funny to watch parents fit into typical weekend social settings." 
Junior Jim Martin said he enjoyed immersing his par­ents into the Notre Dame social scene and took them out to bars and parties on Saturday night. 
"My parents had a lot fun with my friends," he said. "We took them to the Linebacker and closed down the place. We went to a party at the College Football Hall of Fame and also one at Turtle Creek." 
The weekend concluded Sunday with a closing brunch that featured an address by Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman and a bene­diction by University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh. 
"My parents enjoyed all of the University events of the weekend," Martin said. "We thought that Father Hesburgh's address was especially impressive." 
JPW 2006 chairperson and junior Marri Kajfez said the event was a suc­cess. 
"I had so much fun this weekend and I hope that all the juniors did as well," she said. 
Contact Maureen Mullen at mmullenl@nd.edu 

the reasoning behind the rules but not necessarily the enforce­ment. 
"I think [the rules] are fair [considering] it is a pedestrian campus, but I think the parking guard can be a little psychotic when enforcing the rules," she said. 
In most cases, the Office of Residence Life and Housing becomes involved in parking issues after a student has habit­ually violated parking rules. 
NDSP parking fines vary from 
five dollars to $50 
depending on the 

... we have. Our GEnx engine uses advanced compression and combustion technology to achieve dramatic gains in fuel efficiency and lower emissions than any other engine in its class. We call this ecomagination. At GE we invite you to lift your ecomagination through a career in engineering, finance, manufacturing, sales and marketing, human resources, or information technology. 
All students interested in GE should attend the 
GE Information Session February 20, 2006 at 6:15PM 131 DeBartolo 
ecomaginationsM 
to learn more visit us at gecareers.com/notredame 
on equal opportunity employer 
A diversified technology, 

1. I. 
financial services, media

•. imagination at work 
company. 

• 





ORLD & NATION 
Monday, f;ebruary 20, 2006 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Miners trapped by gas explosion 
I'II·:J>HAS NH;HAS. Mnxieo -A gas nxplo­sion Sunday at a coal mine in northern Mnxiro trapped h6 mi1wrs bnlow ground and IPf't 12 hospitalized with burns and broken bonos, ol'lidals said. 
Tho trappnd minnrs had a limitnd supply of oxygnn and thnir livos were in nxtrnmo danger, said Hulwn l•:scudnro Chavoz, diroctor of tho c;rupo Industrial Minora Mexieo, a private company which owns tho pit. 
Tlw nxplosion occurred bnfill'n dawn at the mino near the town of Sabinas, 85 miles southwost of Eagle l'ass on the Moxieo-U.S. bonlor, EsrudPro said. 
Tlw mino is about 985 li1nt b11low ground, ho said. 
It was not immmliatoly dnar whethnr the mini' had airtight chambnrs, such as those that savod 72 potash miners trapped last month aftnJ' lin1 broke out in a Canadian mine. 
Historian may face I~year sentence 
VII·:NNA, Austria -A right-wing British historian gons on trial today on ehargns of dnnying tho lloloeaust ocn1rrnd -a crime punishahll1 by up to I 0 yPars' imprison mont in this eountry onen run by tho Nazis. 
Irving, (>7. has h1wn in r.ustody sinen his aiTPst in NovPmbnr on r.harges stmnming from two spoPdws hn gavn in Austria in 1981) in which lw was aceusml of' dnnying the Nazis' PXtnrmination of'(> million Jows. An night­nwmlwr jury and a panni of' thr11n judgns will hoar thn proc!HHiings, whirh officials said could produr.n a v11rdiet as narly as today. 
Within two w1111ks of his arrnst, Irving assNtPd through his lawy11r that lw now a1·knowiPdg11s thn nxistPnen of Nazi-era gas rhambnrs. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Military helicopter crash kills 10 
.JACKSONVILLE, N.C.-The two Marine Corps helicoptnrs that erashnd oil' tlw coast of Al'rka, killing I 0 service members, were f'rom a unit bw.;od in North Carolina, U.S. military olli­r.ials mnfirmod Sunday. 
Tlw two CII-53E ehoppors, carrying a dozon crnw and troops from a U.S. counterterrorism lim:o, wont down during a training flight Friday in tho Gulf of Aden, nnar the northern coastal town of Has Siyyan in I~jibouti. 
Two crnw mmnbers who were rnseued were taken in stable condition to the U.S. military's l.andstuhllkgional Mndieal C!mtor in Germany. 
Tho aircraft were from Marine Heavy llnlkopter Squadron 4(>4, based at Marine ( :orps Air Station New Hivor. 

New chocolate offers health benefits 
ALBANY, Ga. -It's every ehoeolate lover's wish that their favorite indulgence could sonwhow be healthy f(Jr them. Now, ehoeolate maknrs daim they have grantnd that wish. 
Mars lne., maker of' Milky Way, Sniekers and M&M's candies, next month plans to launch nationwide a new line of products made with a dark choeolate the company daims has health benefits. 
Called CocoaVia, the products are made with a kind of' dark ehoeolate high in fla­vanols, an antioxidant found in coeoa beans that is thought to have a blood-thinning nfl'eet similar to aspirin and may even lower blood prnssurn. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Fireworks may become legalized 
INI>IANAI'OJ.IS -An niTort to legalize thn usn of' l'irnworks in Indiana would do lill111 to improve onforenmont of the law and raises questions about who is liable l'or injuries or propnrty damage caused by pyrotnehnies, erities say. 
A bill being eonsidnnHI in thn Senate would allow pnopln to set off f'irnworks on t.hnir propnrty, or on sonwonn else's prop­nr·ty il' tlwy had pnrmission. Fireworks would not hn sold to pnopln under 18 years old. 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WlRE SERVICEs page 5 
INDIA 


India fears outbreak of bird flu 
Poultry killed by thousands as officials work to prevent further spread of disease 
Associated Press 
NAVAPUH -Health offi­
eials and l'arm workers in 
protective clothing began 
slaughtering hundreds of 
thousands of chiekens in 
western India on Sunday, 
hoping to prevent the 
spread of tho deadly ll5N1 
bird nu virus. 
Europe stopped up its bat­lin against bird 11u as the European Union's top poul­try producer,. France, grap­pled with its lirst rnportod case of the lethal virus. 
Europnan poultry farmers said consumption has l~tllen and eausnd hundrnds of mil­lions of dollars in losses. Germany ordered somn birds killed on the Baltie Sea island of Hw~gen. The num­bnr of deadly flu eases in Italy rosn to 16. 
Indian ollkials rnported a 27-year-old poultry farm owner had died of' bird-llu­like symptoms. though tests had yet to detnrminn what killnd him. 
"At this juncture we can only suspnet that the cause of his death eould be bird l'lu,'' Sural district officer Vatsala Vasudov told the Press Trust of India news ageney. 
Workers in Navapur, a major poultry farming region in western Maharashtra state, dumped bird carcasses and gloves, goggles and blue gowns used by health teams into deep pits at poultry farms. 
Bird flu has devastated poultry stoeks and killed at least 91 people, mostly in Asia, since 2003, according to the World Health Organization. Most human eases of the disease have been linked to contact with infected birds. 
Scientists fear that the virus could mutate into a form that is easily transmit­ted among humans, spark­ing a pandemic. 
Since early Sunday, more than 200,000 chickens had been killed in Navapur of about 500,000 expected to be slaughtered within a 1.5­mile radius, said Anees Ahmed, the Maharashtra . state minister for animal husbandry. 


Poultry farms were dosod to everyone but health ofli­eials and workers in protec­tive gear. Chicken shops were shuttered. 
The government has banned the sale or transport of ehickens from the area, and checkpoints have been set up to inspect trucks. 
India exports some $84.4 million worth of poultry products a year to Europe, Japan and the Middle East, and has seen a rise in over­seas orders in the past year as countries such as Indonesia struggled to con­trol bird flu outbreaks. 
"Now countries will shut us out," said Ajit Hanade of the Bombay Veterinary College. 
Neighboring Nepal on Sunday said it was banning imports of all poultry and poultry products from India, while Bangladesh said it would step up surveillance along its border with India to prevent smuggling of birds into the country. 
In Egypt, authorities dosed the Cairo zoo after six of 83 birds that died there recently tested positive for the 115Nl strain. Health authorities said tests still had not found the disease in humans. 
Egyptian oflicials, mean­while, pleaded with citizens not to dispose of dead chick­ens, turkeys or other birds by throwing them in the roads, irrigation canals or thn Nile Hivin·. 
"More than <J() percent of the easns so far have bnen found in poultry kept in cages on roof.'i or balconies of apartment buildings. We ask the pnople to cooperat11 and not to dump anything into the Nile, please," llealth Minister I!atom Mustafa ol­Gabaly said. 
France on Saturday joined Austria, Germany, Grnoee, Italy, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Croatia, Homania, Hussia, Turkey and Ukraine in the ranks of countries with deadly bird flu in Europe. 
Some farmers in the southeastern French town of Joyeux, where the inf(~et­ed wild duek was found, began slaughtering their birds as a prneaution. 
PAKISTAN 

Protests against cartoons escalate 
Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD -Pakistani security forces arrested hundreds of Islamic hard-liners, virtually sealed off the capital and used gunfire and tear gas Sunday to quell protests against caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad. 
Pakistan had banned protests al'ter riots killed live people in two eitics last week. 
Elsewhere in tho Muslim world on 

Sunday, demonstrators with wooden staves and stones tried unsuccess­fully to storm the U.S. Embassy in Indonesia, while tens of thousands rallied in the Turkish city of Istanbul and complained about negative Western perceptions of Islam. 
Troops patrolled the deserted streets of the northnrn Nigerian town of Maiduguri, where thousands of Muslims attacked Christians and burned churches Saturday, killing at least 15 people during a protest over the cartoons. Most of the vie­Urns wern beaten to death by riot­ers. 
In Saudi Arabia, newspapers ran full-page apologins by .Jyllands­Postnn, the Danish newspaper that first ran tlw carieatures in September. The newspaper's Web site said businesses placed the ad on their own initiative, using an apolo­gy issued by thn newspaper late last month. It did not identify the compa­nies or say if they were Danish. 
page 6 The Observer + COLLEGE NEWS Monday, February 20, 2006 
Yale 1 Sex Week' sparks debate 
Provocative annual events shock students, promote sexual awareness 
Associated Press NEW HAVEN, Conn. -In a lecture hall on Yale's storied Old Campus, not long after an after­noon astronomy class has cleared out, a middle-aged sex toy saleswoman demonstrates her technique and hands out free products to an eager crowd. "I want you to close your eyes," Patty Brisbon playfully instructs a young man as she rubs scented lotion into his forearm and, to raucous laugh­ter, reaches for an electric toy and a glove. "Fantasize about having an all-over body mas­sage." Welcome to Sex Week at Yale, a biennial celebration that has become one of the most provocative campus events in the country. Organizers say Sex Week gets students talking about sex in a way that's more relevant than middle-school film strips, more honest than movies and televi­sion, and more fun than requi­site college health lectures. "To get people's attention, we do have to do things a little risque and a little different than other sex education programs," said junior Dain Lewis, who was inspired to direct Sex Week 2006 after attending the 2004 event. Yale's event, which ends Saturday, includes lectures from dating specialists, a sex thera­pist and a discussion of homo­sexuality with a former Roman Catholic priest. More provoca­tive sessions include a panel of porn stars and stripping lessons from a Playboy Channel hostess. Critics say Sex Week is just the latest act of debauchery at colleges in recent years: Students started sex columns. Vassar and others created eroti­ca journals. Harvard launched H-Bomb, a magazine featuring suggestive pictures of under­graduates. Washington Univer­sity in St. Louis offered a sex­themed week with orgasm sem­inars and condom telegrams. "I don't see how bringing a Playboy stripper to campus is helping anything," said Travis Kavulla, editor of the Harvard 


Salient, which joined other con­servative newspapers in giving Sex Week the Collegiant Network 2004 Outrage Award. "How are universities trying to educate students in sponsoring activities like this?" 
Sex Week is a recognized stu­dent organization but Brisben's company, PureRomance.com, sponsors the events, not Yale. Advertising helps pay for mar­keting and for Sex Week at Yale, the Magazine. 
The magazine contains sex advice for men, help for select­ing the right condom and sug­gestions for women trying to satisfy themselves. 
Editors say they're promoting sexual awareness, not sex. The magazine includes an articie encouraging abstinence until marriage, a guide to healthy relationships and an essay on unrequited love. 
The interview with the porn star, organizers said, was just for fun. 
"It would seem like we were trying to intellectualize sex if we didn't have something on the other end of the spectrum," said Whitney Seibel, a senior psy­chology major who posed for the cover wearing only red panties and a strategically placed arm. 
About 25,000 copies were dis­tributed at Yale and on other campuses nationwide. The edi­tors are considering a second printing. 
While Yale may be giving off a flirty vibe this week, Brisben said she was surprised at how reserved the students were at her seminar. And for all their good grades, Brisbon said Yale students seemed less clued in about sex than students else­where. 

"I have a lot of inhibitions and fears that I'm not sure where they come from. And I don't know how common," saip Kaja · Wilmanska, a 20-year-old soph­omore from Poland. "It opens up the ground to talk about issues people aren't comfortable talking about otherwise. Basical-ly, I want to see what other people are saying." 
Students complain that the dating scene is notoriously com­plicated at Yale, where every grade matters, every extracur­ricular is essential and every­one is in competition. Last year, author Natalie Krinsky made that awkward scene the star of her novel "Chloe Does Yale." 
That's why Lewis says lec­tures such as Dating 101 are valuable. Lewis wants Yale to help other schools host their own versions. 
"In planning it, I'm saying, 'Could I justify the educational value of this to my mom?' If we can, we're in good shape," Lewis said. 

E-textbooks do not fulfill expectations 
Associated Press 
Brown University junior Stuart Thompson jumped at the chance to save $30 and become a digital pioneer when his school book­store offered a discounted, elec­tronic version of an American history textbook. 
But after making the purchase, he noticed a few things amiss: He couldn't run a highlight marker over key points or jot notes in the margins, nor could he curl up with the tome without printing out the pages. 
He won't rule out another e­book, but he's not completely sold, either. 
So much for the belief that this generation of youths is comfort­able with every­

thing digital: The University
"Students are
publishing industry and an e-book 
has been talking pretty conservative author, said tech­about electronic when it comes to nological changes textbooks for a typically come in
their grades. ,,
decade already, but two phases: sales remain Heplication of minuscule. David Serbun older technology, 
"If you're read­director of followed by inno­ing a 100-page vation.
partnerships
book, staring at the "We're in the
Houghton Mifflin 
computer that long first phase, with 
Others, however, say the pub­lishers are thP ones that are con­servative, doing little more than adding some hyperlinks and search capabilities. Tools are available for note-taking and highlighting, but Thompson said those are no substitute for mark­ing up paper. 
Por the most part, e-books are merely electronic representa­tions of the printed pages. 
"It's like taking a book and ... trying to turn it into a movie just by trying to read pages," said Alexander Pereira, chief operat­ing officer of' Xplana Learning Inc., an education software com­pany that delivers e-books. "It's a different medium." 
C. Sidney Burrus, former dean of engineering at Hice 
-I don't think a lot of people would find that a better way to read," Thompson said. 
Of the 100 or so students enrolled in the course where Houghton Milllin Co.'s "A People and a Nation" is assigned, Thompson was the only student to buy the electronic version. 
Brown is offering two other e­textbooks this semester, but none of the 150 students in those classes have bought one, even at 35 percent off the price of a new printed copy. 
Students are going to have to see more value in e-textbooks before they take off, said Larry Carr, Brown's director of book­store and services. 
For now, it is mostly a curiosity. 
"Students are pretty conserva­tive when it comes to their grades," said David Serbun, director of partnerships for Houghton Miffiin's college divi­sion. "Our research has indicat­ed they don't want to do any­thing that's a lot different than their peers." 
electronic doing what the traditional paper has done," he said. "Nothing's really novel." 
How cane-books be more than print? 
Imagine a biology e-book showing video of DNA's double helix coming to life, rather than the two-dimensional illustration typically found in printed books. 
Or think of a math book with a built-in calculator or spreadsheet so students can try out formulas as they read. Waterloo Maple Inc.'s Maplesoft, for instance, is now making completely digital an advanced mathematical text­book that used to come with a CD. 
Publishers say that demand for digital-only editions and features isn't strong. 
More importantly, professors are demanding consistency with the printed versions so page numbers match and readings are easier to assign, said Sandi Kirshner, chief marketing officer for Pearson PLC's higher educa­tion group. 

More U.S. colleges offer Chinese 
Associated Press 
MUNCIE, Ind. -The hottest new export out of China these days? Its language. 
Nationwide, experts say there's been an unprecedented increase in the number of students study­ing Chinese at the college level. 
As China morphs into an eco­nomic world leader, more American schools are offering courses in the Mandarin lan­guage as a way to adapt to the future global economy, said Mindy Zhang, a Chinese instruc­tor for the Indiana Academy for Science, Mathematics and Humanities. Zhang also teaches Chinese courses as an adjunct professor at Ball State University, where interest in the foreign lan­guage is at a high. 
"For years I think Chinese has been looked upon as an 'exotic language,"' said Zhang, a native of Wuhan, China. "Now I think we are starting to see that per­ception change." 
In the past, Zhang typically welcomed about 15 or 16 stu­dents each semester to her intro­ductory Chinese course at Ball State. Last August, 28 students enrolled. 

Next fall, she anticipates Ball State will need a second-year Chinese course, the first time demand would fill a required class roster of at least 10 stu­dents. Previously, her second­and third-year Ball State stu­dents have taken classes with her students at the academy. 
Professors say the demand for Chinese courses has left their language departments scram­bling to keep up. 
Between 1998 and 2002, the Modern Language Association reports student enrollment in Chinese jumped 20 percent, to about 34,000 students. Studying in China is also on the rise, up 90 percent, to 5,000 students, between 2003 and 2004, accord­ing to the Institute of International Education. 
To keep up with demand, uni­versities may soon hire more language professors courtesy of the federal government's new National Security Language Initiative, launched by President Bush in January. 
The major goal of the initiative is to increase the number of Americans mastering what the government has defined "critical need foreign languages," which include Arabic, Russian, Hindi, Farsi and Chinese. Bush has requested $114 million to fund the efl'ort at the K -12 and colle­giate levels. 


Live a little~ on Mondays! 
~;Fa~it~ 


Ettjoy a double order of chicke", steak or cotttbo fajitas (e"ough for two) for just •tt!* Regular Price ~20.99. 
• •I




C liS® 

& BAR 
MISHAWAKA 
4810 Orape Rd. 
zn-1ggo 

•otter valid Mr{ Mtmdav 11 a.111. to close. 


Monday, February 20, 2006 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
11,115.32 -5.36
jones 
~ Same: Down: Composite Volume: ~04 2,275,039,340
159 ,., 

AMEX 1.820.63 +10.57 NASDAQ 2.,,282)() -12.27 NVSE. 8,092.42 +5,68 S&PSOO 1,287.24 -2.14 
NtKKEI(Tokyo) ,·5.7t3As,··" ····o:oo FTSE IOO(London) 5,846.20 +17.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI) -6.90 -0.39 5.26 INTEL CP (INTC) -3.47 -0.74 20.61 NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ) -0.79 -0.33 41.21 JDS UN I PHASE CP UDSU) +3.73 +0.11 3.06 DELL INC (DELL) -4.94 -1.58 30.38 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -1.20 -0.55 45.41 10-YEAR NOTE -0.07 -0.03 44.27 5-YEAR NOTE -1.49 -0.68 45.09 3-MONTH BILL -0.98 -0.45 45.49 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) + 1.16 61.29 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +5.80 554.60 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.70 83.35 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
118.0900 EURO 
0.8379 POUND 
0.5743 CANADIAN$ 
1.1508 
IN BRIEF 
Auto strike avoided but still possible 
I>I~THOIT-Delphi Corp. dodged a bullet Friday, avoiding a dnvastating strike by delaying a hid to rqjnd iL'i labor agrnnmnnL'>. But tho nation's largnst auto supplier warned it will renew efli1rL'i to eanenl its eontraets in six weeks if it fails to rmu:h a sott.lmnnnt with iL'i unions and its largest custonwr. Gonnral Motors Corp. 
I lolphi, which fitnd 1(11' bankruptey in Octobnr. says iL'> nxp<msivo U.S. labor agrnomnnL'i make it impossible to compete in a global oconomy. The company lirst throatnnnd in Dncnrnbnr to ask a hankrupt<:y court to rnjeel its union contracts. l<'!·iday was tho third time Delphi dnlaynd the fil­ing, which also seeks to tnrminatn hnalth earn and Iii(~ insurance for rotirod hourly workers. 
Misunderstanding halts beef trade 
WASIIINGTON -Thn Bush administration said l!riday a New York mmitpaeknr and a govcrnmnnt insp<~dor misunderstood nnw trade rules when thny allowed prohibitnd veal to be shipped to .Japan. 
Tlw .Japannsn government roplied there was no rush to resumn imporL'> of American bnnC which was haltml whnn tho shipment was diseovernd last month. 
30-year bonds affect home mortgages 
NEW YOHK -The Treasury Departmnnt's rnsumption of :~0-ynar bond sales eould have an intornsting impact on the home mortgage marknt, with lnndnrs offering more 40-year loans and maybn evon 50-year mortgages for tho first tirnn to hnlp some consumers qualify for loans. 
While tho connection bntwenn the two-the 
U.S. govnrnnwnt borrowing money through tlw sale of d1~bt and a home buyer looking for a loan to buy a honw -may not be apparnnt. tho two arn inseparabln. That's because tho intnrost rate tho govnrnmont pays for its dnbt usually d1~tnrminos thn rate consumers and corporations will pay for tho loans they tako out. 
Tho rointroduetion of the 30-year bond nwans londnrs -who had rnlied on tho gov­nrnnwnt's 10-ynar note for mortgage rate guidance -have a hotter idea of what to charge homebuyers for a 40-year mortgage. 
Tl··fE 0HSERVER 








USINESS 
page 7 
Courts question port takeover 
Involvement of Arab company in deal raises concerns about national security 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A com­pany at the Port of Miami has sued to block the takeover of shipping oper­ations there by a state­owned business in the United Arab Emirates. It is tho first American court­room effort to capsize a $6.8 billion sale already embroiled in a national debate over security risks at six major U . S. ports affected by the deal. 
The Miami company, a subsidiary of Eller & Company lnc., presently is a business partner with London-based Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Co., which Dubai Ports World pur­chased last week. In a lawsuit in Florida circuit court, the Miami sub­sidiary said that under the sale it will become an "involuntary partner" with Dubai's government and it may seek more than $10 million in damages. 

The Miami subsidiary, Continental Stevedoring & Terminals Inc., said the sale to Dubai was prohibit­ed under its partnership agreement with the British l'irm and "may endanger the national security of the United States." It asked a judge to bloek the takeover and said it does closed Friday and dis­ers, whieh delivered morn The company quietly dis­not believe the company, closed late Saturday by than 1 million cargo con­patched ad visPrs to reas­Florida or the U.S. govern­people working on the tainers there last year. sure port oiTieials along ment can ensure Dubai case. A New Jersey lawmaker the East Coast, and its Ports World's compliance The sale, already said Saturday he intends chief operating oiTieor ­with AmPrican security approved by the Bush to require U.S. port securi­internationally respected rules. administration, has drawn ty officials be American American shipping exoeu­
A spokesman for escalating criticism by citizens, to prevent over­tive Edward "Ted" II. Peninsular and Oriental lawmakers in Washington seas companies operating Bilkoy -is nxpoctnd to indicated the eompany had who maintain the United domestic shipping facilities travel to Washington this not yet seen the lawsuit Arab Emirates is not con­from hiring foreigners in week for rnootings on and declined to common t sistent in its support of such sensitive positions. Capitol llill and olsewlwro. immediately. U.S. terrorism-fighting Hepublican Frank A. Tho Bush administration 
The lawsuit represents efforts. At least one Senate LoBiondo, chairman of the in roeont days has defend­the earliest skirmish over oversight hearing is Coast Guard and Maritime ed its approval of the sale, lucrative contracts among planned for later this Transportation and has resistod demands the six major American month. Subcommittee, cited "sig­by Congress to reconsider. ports where Peninsular The Port of Miami is nificant" security worries State Department and Oriental runs major among the nation's over the sale to Dubai spokesman Soan commercial operations: busiest. It is a hub for the Ports World. McCormaek described tho New York, New Jersey, nation's cruise ships, Caught by surprise over United Arab Emirates on Baltimore, New Orleans, which carry more than 6 the breadth of concerns Friday as a "long-standing Miami and Philadelphia. million passengers a year, expressed in the United friend and ally" and said The lawsuit was filed and the seaport services States, Dubai is cautiously the Unitod States and UAE moments before the court more than 30 ocean carri-organizing its response. had a good rolationship. 



Sirius Satellite Radio reports loss 
million from $25.2 million. afternoon al'ter heavy trading, whilo
Associated Press 
Despite the relatively in-line results, XM's shares drop pod $2.41, or 10 

NEW YOHK -Sirius Satellite Hadio the shares of both Sirius and its rival percent, to dose at $21.57, also in Inc. reported a wider loss in the XM Satellite Hadio Holdings Inc. fell heavy trading. Both issues trade on fourth quarter Friday as costs for on Friday, a day after XM disclosed the Nasdaq. building its rapidly growing base of the sudden departure of one of its Sirius and XM are spending heavily subscribers mounted. board members, who warned of a to expand their businesses. which 
The company, which added shock looming "erisis" at that company if it eharge about $13 a month for dozens jock Howard Stern to its roster last didn't rein in eosts. of ehannels of commnrcial-frne month, lost $311.4 million compared XM also posted a much wider than music, as well as talk, news and with a loss of $261.9 million in the expected loss on Thursday as it spent sports. same period a year ago. heavily on marketing to counter the Sirius reported that its eosts for 
The loss per share eame in at 23 threat from Stern's arrival at Sirius. acquiring now subscribers more than eents, a penny lower than analysts XM executives said they expected doubled to $145.2 million from $64.9 surveyed by Thomson Finaneial had that spending to deeline sharply million in the samn pel'iod a year ago. been expecting and 2 cents greater going forward. Its average eost for adding eaeh sub­than the loss of 21 cents a year ago. Sirius' shares fell 39 cents, or 6.9 scriber, however, fell to $113 from Hevenues more than tripled to $80 percent, to close at $5.26 Friday $124 in the same periorl a year ago. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, February 20, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Painting the roses red 
Tlu lndepmdnJt, Da.ily Newspapd &rving Notre Dam~ and Saint Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAFHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROllER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DesK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631--4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online hy the students ofthe 

Universiry ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on comenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commenraries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qu6tiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ob.scrvtr (USPS 599 l-4000) ~published Monday through Friday ct:o:pt during exam and vacati'm periods. A subscription to The Observer is $100 for one academic Y1!ar. $55 for one S¢nle$t¢r. 
Tile Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send addri!SI!O correaions c.o: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 11>e0bs<= Periodical postage paid at Notre 01Ufl~ r.o.&,n9 and addidorutl mailing offices. 02-4 South Dining HaU 
Norre Dame:, IN 465S6-0n9 
The Ohkrvc:r is a member ofthe Assod~ttcd Press. All reproduction rights an:: reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Kelly Meehan Matt Puglisi Nicole Zook Jack Thornton Laura Greg Arbogast Baumgartner Scene Viewpoint Molly Griffin 
Margie Rosmonowski Graphics Matt Hudson 
The American presidency has never been a truly open and honest institu­tion. It's a sad but accurate fact that needs changing at a time when nearly complete transparency is demanded of just about everyone else -including the media, major corpo­rations, Olympic ath­letes, private citizens engaged in overseas telephone calls and most other elected officials -for the preservation of a safe and equitable society. 
Franklin D. Hoosevelt, for instance, had an infamous relation­ship with the press in which, of the 140,000 photos taken of him during his presidency, only a handful showed him in leg braces or a wheelchair. As a result, much of the world was unaware that its most powerful resident was paralyzed from the waist down. John f. Kennedy, as well, managed to keep the media from revealing his legendary sexual exploits to the world thanks to an understanding that the president's private life was of no concern to the general public. 

Times have changed, however, and the day of the clandestine presidency is dead. Hichard Nixon's deviant behavior behind closed doors proved that the doors to the Oval Office must remain open to the oversight of the Fourth Estate. Bill Clinton, of course, found this out the hard way. 
Strangely enough, the George W. Bush White House seems to be under the impression that they can turn back the clock to a time in which public accountability and media transparency simply did not apply to the highest office in the land, to a time, as Richard Nixon famously argued in.a 1977 inter­view with television personality David Frost, when the President of the United States was above the laws of our democracy. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Joey 
Falco 
Forty Ounces 
In a speech on Friday to the Council on Foreign Relations, Donald Humsfeld accused the media of undermining U.S. foreign policy by focusing on negative aspects of the Iraq War instead of engaging in the propaganda battles being fought by a! Qaeda. "While al Qaeda and extremist movements have utilized this forum [the free-market mass media] for many years," he lamented, "We in the government have barely even begun to compete in reach­ing their audiences." 
Yes, the Secretary of Defense actually looked at the propaganda machines of our enemies (who operate in societies where an independent media is all but nonexistent) in lustful admiration. "For the most part," he said, "the U.S. gov­ernment still functions as a five-and­dime store in an eBay world." 
This is certainly an interesting posi­tion to take for a country that once put members of the Nazi propaganda machine on trial in Nuremberg on the grounds that "the results of propagan­da as a weapon of the Nazi conspira­tors reaches into every aspect of this conspiracy, including the atrocities and ruthless exploitation in occupied coun­tries. It is likely that many ordinary Germans would never have participat­ed in or tolerated the atrocities com­mitted throughout Europe had they not been conditioned and goaded by the constant Nazi propaganda," according to the prosecution at the Nuremberg trials. 
Apparently, based on Rumsfeld's remarks, propaganda in the American media would be exempt from this criti­cism, though, because encouraging "exploitation in occupied countries" is good as long as it is Bush-approved exploitation. 

Perhaps the most entertaining moment of Humsfeld's speech came when he complained that the press "seems to demand perfection from the government" on issues like Iraq and the Abu Ghraib prison scandal. (Is this guy for real?) Maybe in the world according to Humsfeld, the headline in the Washington Post on the day after 30 U.S. Marines were killed in a helicopter crash would have read "No Worries: 129,970 Soldiers Still Alive in Iraq." 
Like the Queen of Hearts in "Alice in Wonderland," Bush and Rumsfeld are faced with a reality of white roses in Iraq in which death and insurrection are everyday occurrences, yet they expect the media to do the "patriotic" thing and gloss over the truth with propaganda by painting the roses red. 
These expectations of a government­supportive media (something that will never again exist for Democratic administrations either, regardless of what Hush Limbaugh says about a lib­eral media bias) have also resulted in the most opaque presidency in modern history. Press Secretary Scott McClellan's frequent spats with NBC's David Gregory have generated lots of attention, but few people point out that Gregory's hostility would be the natural reaction for anyone who is unable to do their job properly because of the "loose lips sink ships" mentality of the Bush White House. 
The last straw, in the minds of most reporters, came last week after a man was shot by the Vice President of the United States for the first time in 202 years. One would have thought that a monumental event like this would have resulted in an immediate White House announcement followed by a rapid pub­lic apology and revelation of the seem­ingly innocent facts of the case. Dick Cheney had other plans in mind, though, and America was kept in the dark for nearly 18 hours while the gears of the White House spin machine were set in motion. 
Welcome to the new era of govern­ment propaganda: Why bother painting the roses red when you can pretend they never existed in the first place? 
Joey Falco is a junior American Studies major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be contact­ed atjfalco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

Is there another way? 
Many of us, whether we're for or against the war in Iraq, are aware that 2,268 Americans and roughly 30,000 civilians have already been killed in Iraq since March of 2003 ... but have we ever stopped to ask ourselves if there is another way? 

It is this question that drives the hearts of many who are involved in peace activism at Notre Dame. As we study Catholic social teaching and its implica­tions in our modern world, many of us have come to believe that war is incom­patible with human dignity and the com­mon good. War does not happen in a vacuum -it breeds a culture of death that intimately affects each member of society, tearing apart communities and indiscriminately killing, injuring or scar­ring all who cross its path. Far from a 
OBSERVER POLL 
Do you think the College Readership Program is the right use for the student activities 
fee increase? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
just, eiTective solution to social problems, war strips all sides of their human digni­ty and greatly lessens a community's potential for co-existing in peace and resolving future conflicts. 

Thus, even in the face of grave human rights atrocities -we don't need war­we need an active, nonviolent engage­ment of the conflict, which includes dia­logue, disarmament, humanitarian aid and prayer, as a means to help us return to right relations with our neighbor. Some might scoff at these supposedly "unrealistic" suggestions, but Christ Himself set love as the measure for human dignity. Throughout the Gospels it is clear that He asks for nothing less. "You have heard that it was said, 'You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy.' But I say to you, love your ene-
Submit aLetter 1 
to tbe Editor at ' 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
mies, and pray for those who persecute you." (Matthew 5:44-45) 
If love is the answer, it is clear that war cannot adequately address the wounds of our time. While it might make us feel like we are "at least doing something," war is an ineffective remedy, a Band-Aid that will soon fall off, requiring even more violence to secure it. As we gather together this week to pray for peace and remember those who have been killed, I challenge you to let yourself be made uncomfortable when confronted with the consequences of war and to take the question seriously -is there another way? 
Jess Heringer Pasquerilla East Feb. 16 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Greatness lies not in being strong, but in the right use ofstrength." 
Henry Ward Beecher clergyman, writer 

.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Monday, February 20, 2006 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Uncontroversial plays just as u.northodox 
1\l:eording to the text of' Univnrsity Prnsident Father .John .Jenkins' liu:ulty addrnss on tlw eontrovorsy over "The Vagina Monologlll~s" and the Queer Film Fnstival. he is c:onenrnod with possible eon­llkL'i bntwmm Notro Damn's role as a major research institution and its "Catholic ehar­aetnr." In order to mndiatn this tension, .lnnkins said, "Wn sonk, above all, the deep­er prindples that takn account of academie lh~ndom and our Catholie character." I think, then, it would bn usnful to probn the prindplns that would bn suggestod in the nlirnination offundraising or pnrlimning "The Vagina Monologuos" and amnnding or abolishing tho {lm1er Film Festival. Thoso opposnd to these event<.; opino that they conllid with Catholic moral tnac:hing and arn thus inappropriatn at a Catholic institu­tion. Ynt from Chaucer to Camus, nearly all of the major literary, philosophical and artistic works eneounternd at Notm Dame c:halllmge orthodoxy without nlidting seri­ous ol~jm:tion. 
I )ram a at Notrn Dame is no exception. Plays pnrli>rnwd at University faeilities and l'undod partially by ticket salos usually do not. advocatn Catholic thnology. Probing Jmkins's dich11 invocation of a play att.end­Pd by IIitier. the significance of a play by an unknown prinst turn1~d playwright in Bavaria is possibly questionable in iL<> artis­tic morit. Yet productions that can bn inter­prntnd as anti-Semitic arn routinely pnr­lilfmnd without being viewnd as against Catholic "valuns." Shaknspeare's "The Merchant ofVnnice," whil:h will bn present­c~d at Notre Dame this month, has not bmm rnjndml bncause it<> portrayal of Shylock 

eould be viewed as not in keeping with a Catholie ethos. Similarly, it is doubtful that Marlowe's "Jew of Malta" would be refused, despite it<> anti-Semitic overtones. 
Indeed, a brief review of upcoming the­atrieal performanees on eampus reveals a wide range of treatment<> that conniet with Catholicism. Shakespeare's "Twelfth Night" suggest<> homosexual attraction and gender ambiguity. Osear Wilde's "Salome" tells the story of the young dancer who, after being sexually rejeeted by John the Baptist, asks 
.her infatuated stepfather, llerod, f(>r his head. After he is beheaded and his head brought out on a plate, Salome kisses his dead lips. This play, written by a homosexu­al, portrays themes of incest, sexual attrac­tion to a ehild and sexual desire trans­f(>rmed into violence. Similarly, I remember another production at Washington Hall a few years ago that featurnd a comie plot that violates Catholie sexual morals. Machiavelli's "The Mandrake" is the tale of an unmarried young man who desires to have sex with an unmarried virgin, although she wishes to remain a viq..,rin until marriage. Despite her rejection, he con­met<> an elaborate seheme involving the drug mandrake to triek her into sleeping with him. I recall no controversy over the presentation of this work, although its sex­ual content, though not as overtly explicit, is far less delimsible than the Monologues. 
Simply arguing that these works are eanoni"cal or historically signilieant is not justification enough to distinguish them from Eve Ensler's play. First, if we are indeed attempting to define "deeper princi­ples," then the stature of a writer like 
Questions to discuss 
Univ•1rsity Prnsidtmt Father John Jenkins' rncnnt addrnssns on the subjeet of aeademic frnndom and Catholic cha.raetnr have rightly promptnd m1 intnnse discussion among nwmbnrs of our eommunity about what aca­dnmic rn~ndom is generally and, morn specif­ir.ally, about whether Notn~ Damn would infringn upon academk frendom by rnfusing to sponsor -or by IL'iking acadnmk unit.., not to sponsor -event<.; that are "n!..,>Tngious­ly contrary to or inconsistnnt with the funda­mnntal valuns of a Catholil: univnrsity." Such a dnbau~ is a hoalthy onn, nspneially at an institution that bdievns that iL<> aeademie and religious missions are inextrkably inter­twinc~d (or pnrhaps tlmt they are onn and tho samn). But Jenkins' invitation U> bn!..,rin such a discussion also snrves <L'i an opportunity to ronsidPr thn importlmcn of institutional idnn­tity mtd autonomy in the~ aeadnmy. A<> we 1H1gag1~ in thi'i dnbatn, wn shi)Uid not losn sight of thn important faet Uutt uniqtw aea­dPmil' institutions-dnfirwd by thnir mis­sions and tim dndsions that rnllnet those missions -snrvn a critical role in thn mar­kntplacn of idmL'i. lnstitutionai!L'>Sertions of identity nnhancn academic frnodom-they do not dntraet from it. By speaking 11s Notre Dame, the University amplifies important mnssag11s. It may also help ehnck our unli>r­tunatn umdeney U> believe that frnedom is somnthing 1mjoy11d only by lonely individuals, rathPr than al'io by mnmbnrs of assodations who work tognthnr to aehinve a common goal. 
Considnr an nxampln: snvnral ynars ago, Yall~ Law School (my alma mau1r) announced that it would no longnr permit the Christian Lngal Society to interview on campus. Yale adoptnd this policy because the Christian IA~gal Sor.inty rnsnrves cnrtain high-levd positions li>r Christians. At thn tinw, I wrotn tlw dnan of thn law school to o~jnet. I argund that a lull eommitment U> n~li!..,rious lib1~rty n~quirnd Yale U> rnspnct the ( :hristian I ,ngal Society's institutional autono­my and noted that tlw Society's hiring prac­ticns wnrn in keeping with li1doral anti-dis-Machiavelli should not excuse a play that makes a joke out of coercing a woman into 

an unwanted sexual relationship. Moreover, since. "The Vagina Monologues" is a con­temporary work. we do not have the bonelit of distaneo in order to assess its signifi­cance and value. Thus, we must rely on the judgment of viewers and those involved in 
the theatrical and academic profession to assess il<> possible worth. It should be noted that "The Vaf..,rina Monologues" is consid­ered mainstream theater. It is widely known and performed internationally, and 
it is an influential force in current eultum. Based on the play's presence and renown, it has intrinsic signi(icance as an element of the present artistic landseape. Similarly, tho Queer Film Fostival is not only an acknowl­odgment of a very real community in our world, but it is also an aspeet of main­stream eultural research, what is known as queer theory. Beyond their indisputable eul­tural presenee, we must rely on the judg­ment of those that see these events (diOieult to do il"they are reduced or eliminated) and those prof{Jssionals who routinely study the art<>. Notre Dame has outstanding literature and theater faculties, and it i<> their profes­sional judgment that both evenl<> have aca­demic and artistic merit. To substitute an inartieulato prineiple (one that, as I have argued, Notre Dame really does not con­form to) for the assessment of trained scholars is insulting and short-sighted, par­ticularly in light of eurrent trends in tho field of evolutionary biology. 
What, then, is the real objection to "The Vagina Monologues" and the Queer Film Festival, an objection that ean be reason­ably implmnentod in the future'? Tho dis­tinetion between censorship and sponsor­ship is not porsuasive. Firstly, I would argue that Ensler incorporates fund raising into her artistic oxpression, adVI)(:ating a typo of sodally-aetive theatnr. Thus, to eliminato that would bn to eensor a major aspect of the play's message. Evon barring that, there is no discernable diflimmee betwmm the type of sponsorship shown to the Film Festival and that ofSalonu1. lndnnd tim only noticeable difference is that both disputnd prnsentations have provocative words in the titln, something that could hardly bn sustained as a guideline for tho futuro. 
Ultimatnly, the guiding prindple of rnject­ing those works that arn "dnarly and egrn­giously at odds with Catholie valuns" is not and never has been upheld at Notrn Damn -and for good reason. The role of litera­turn and art is to challnnw~ our value sys­tems. It is thn ability to dPstabilizn our bnlinfs that distinguishes so many groat eul­tural expressions. We are left to condude that Jnnkins is not advocating a dnarly­defined and supported prindple, but rather allowing a hypocritical self-righteousness to propagatn based on nothing more than reaetionary philistinism. And li>r those who are concerned with Christian morality, I would recommend looking up .Jnsus's corn­mnnl'i li>r the hypoeritieal Pharisnos. Some might eonsider that a fairly clnar prindplo for our futuro. 
Erin Blonde! alumna Class of200~ Feb. IS 


Living justice 
crimination laws. The dean -who is a friend and former proli~ssor-respectfully but firmly rejected these aq..,'llments. I le said that it was eritieally important lbr Yale Law Sehool to take a "no exeeptions" position against all "diserimination." Yale's institu­tional commitment to tho anti-diserimination principle, in his view, trumped concerns about religious freedom in tlw employment eon text. 
Yale eontinues to exdude the Christian Legal Society. I am eertain that there are members of tho Yale Law School faeulty who share my view of this poliey, but I do not believe that the policy infringes upon the aeademie freedom ofthese di'isenting faculty members. They remain free to write, speak and teaeh about the importanee of religious liberty-and to argufl that Yale's policy is wrongheaded. The same is true ofJenkins' suggestion that perhaps a Catholie institution should not sponsor "Tho Va!..,rina Monologues." Of course, Yale's policy and Jenkins' suggestion prompt different ques­tions, dimmmt dass discussions and diller­ent op-eds. Yale's decision asks us to eonsid­or the appropriate balance between our commitments to religious liberty on the one hand and non-di<>erimination on the other. Jenkins' proposal asks us to reflect, general­ly, upon what it means li>r an institution to be a "Catholic" one and, spedfkally, upon whether the Catholic view of sexuality i<> more mspeetful of women than the sncular one prnsentod in the Va!..,rina Monologues. That Notre Dame asks radically dillerent questions than Yaln is both not surprising and good. Notrn Damn h!L'i dif1(1rent ques­tions to ask -questions that the secular world will bo onrichod by hmtring. Jenkins' invitation to eonsider how Notrn Dame might IL'ik such questions, institutionally, while respn1:ting tlw academic freedom of di'lsent­ing faeulty and student<.; is a wdcome one. 
Nicole Stelle Garnett associate professor oflaw Feb. 18 

Want to be acolumnist, copy editor Qf jpy~~rator fQr Viewpoint? 
E-mail Sarah at Viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
On Wednesday, Feb. 16, 2006, the Student Senate unanimously passed two resolutions -"Expressing the Will of the Student Body for the Implementation of a Living Wage" and "Supporting the Creation of a Living Wage Joint Task Force." While their titles may be lengthy, these resolu­tions seek one thing-justice for campus workers. 
A living wage would help workers to stop living from paycheck to pay­check. As the Senate resolution states, "The typieal starting wage for full­time employment as a Notre Dame staff member is $6.45 to $10.17 an hour." With wages this low, far too many workers are forced to work multiple jobs and even qualify for food stamps. A Jiving wage of $12.10 an hour would elevate eampus workers above the federal poverty line. 
One goal of Notre Dame, as outlined by the mission statement, is to culti­vate students with "a disciplined sen­sibility to the poverty, injustice and oppression that burden the lives of so many." Students of the Senate and Campus Labor Action Project have 
answered that call with vigor. University President Father John Jenkins now has a unique opportunity. 
Jenkins ean maintain Notrn Dame's role as a moral leader by forming a task force of workers, students and faeulty to implement a campus living wage. Since 1842, the University has not usnd the status quo or morn mar­ket forces to dictate its aetions. Thn course of this University has bonn guided by one thing-Catholic val­ues. Popn John XXIII wrote that work­ers have the "right to a wagn dntnr­mined by the criterion ofjustiee." As a Catholic institution committed to Catholic charaeter, we are required to uphold the values of Catholie sodal teaching. With the implmnentation of a living wage, Jenkins can assure that every worker is treated as a member of the Notre Dame family. We cannot allow Our Lady's University to be a place where injustiee and poverty can thrive. 
Mike McCann Campus L1bor Action Project member Feb. 19 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 10 
Monday, February 20, 2006 
DPAC REVIEW 

South African soul 
Soweto Gospel Choir gives performance of multicultural, spiritual music 


The Soweto Gospel Choir, hailing from a South African community, represents the multicultural heritage of the country, including Zulu, Afrikaaner and English. 

Photo courtesy of Patrick Ryan Songs performed Saturday included "The Lion Sleeps Tonight," "Amazing Grace," "One Love" and the South African national anthem "Nkosi Sikilele." 
The Soweto Gospel Choir is led by director David Mulovhedzl. It performed gospel hymns and spirituals in a variety of languages, Including Zulu and Sotho. 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Scene Wrirer 
Hailing from South Africa, a nation for­merly torn by racial prejudice and apartheid laws, the Soweto Gospel Choir proved to be a joyous example of the rebirth of the singers' homeland in light of their faith at their concert at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts (DPAC) Saturday night. 
The choir originates in South Africa, from in and around the community of Soweto. The 

The breadth and
nation's multifaceted her­popped the Notre Dame itage -Zulu, Afrikaaner power of the voices bubble," freshman Laura (Dutch) and English among Wilczek said. "It showed
was a force of 
others -leaves the group the culture of Africa and
worship unleashed, 
with a personable distinc­gave a human face to a far­tiveness that is unique to its and their depth of away nation. I think it's homeland. harmony was important that the singers The group, founded in could show their culture
simply beautiful. 
2002, has performed its ver­and share it with us." 
sions of modern and tradi­tional African and global gospel songs worldwide. The choir has put on concerts for world leaders and common audiences alike. 
Members have acted as representatives of Nelson Mandela's "46664" AIDS cam­paign and sung on worldwide platforms such as the Edinburgh Fringe Festival. Their message of faith and their infectious style reach further than their home coun­try, as they have traveled the world on several musical tours. 
This sense of global appreciation was .clearly felt in the choir's performance on Saturday, and the "world music" label commonly slapped onto groups of this type or origin, in this case did the choir's multicultural identity and international audience a subtle justice. 

The chance to expose the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities to a culture unlike what they are used to was certain­ly a positive aspect of the concert. Increased globalization makes getting in touch with another corner of the world an important cultural experience. 
"Overall, I really liked 
the performance because it 

It is this, the desire to spread their culture, faith and message worldwide, that motivates the singers. 
"Soweto Gospel Choir is proud of its tal­ent, its belief in God and its joy of music and of life. The choir will be touring for most of 2006, visiting new countries and cities, making new friends and followers and spreading its message of hope and passion throughout the world," the choir's Web site states, summing up their mission in a few short words. 
The concert fully lived up to this mission by putting it into joyfully contagious spirit and action. The choir performed beauti­fully, with a tangible sense of elation and praise that undoubtedly spread to the audience. 
From the moment that the Soweto Choir entered the Leighton Concert Hall, it held the enraptured crowd at attention. Their costumes, which the group members changed after the intermission, were brightly colored forms of traditional cloth­ing, with each choir member highlighting a different shade. The sections of black and white-striped patterns accented the colors on each tunic, and left the viewer with an 
It is this, the desire 
overall effect of harmony spoke during the concert to and energy in their dress. to spread their reiterate this theme of opti­"The colors of their cos­culture, faith and mism, and the group ended tumes emphasized the its regular performance with
message
jubilant mood of their a rendition of an apartheid­songs," Wilczek said. worldwide, that free South Africa's national Led by choir master and motivates the anthem, "Nkosi Sikilele." fellow singer David The group's energy level
singers.
Mulovhedzi, the choir 
gave its audience nearly 
· two hours of gospel hymns and spirituals. The majority of pieces were performed in local languages, such as Zulu or Sotho, and hearing the strong voices sing in these languages was nothing short of an experience in joyful worship. Each piece, from traditional hymns such as "Avulekile Amasango" to the rhythmic interpretation of "The Lion Sleeps Tonight," was individual in its per­formance but unified by the choir's talent. The breadth and power of the voices was a force of worship unleashed, and the 
Patrick Ryan 

depth of harmony was simply beautiful. 
While every number was performed with zeal and passion, highlights included the dance segment that opened the sec­ond half, a version of Bob Marley's "One Love" and the group's magnificent take on "Amazing Grace." For so unfortunately cliched a hymn, the words found new meaning when sung by such pure voices. 
"Earthy rhythms, rich harmonies, and charismatic a capella performances com­bine to uplift the soul and express South Africa's hopes for the future," reads the­
choir's press release. 
Several choir members 
brought the audience to its 

feet at the encore. The final number, the classic "Oh Happy Day," injected the audience with a vigor and force so contagious that applause and singing erupted in the theater. The entire room enlivened the choir's beauty of pure worship and praise. 
Drums, instruments, voices, dancing ­every element worked seamlessly to bring to the DPAC one incredible night of music at the hands of the Soweto Gospel Choir on Saturday. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy 

r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 






CENE
Monday, February 20, 2006 page 11 

DPAC REVIEW 
'Gone with the Wind' epitomizes epic filmmaking 
The lilm is an adaptation of MargaretBy MOLLY GRIFFIN 

Mitchell's novel, which won thn Pulitzer Assistant Scene Ediror 
Prize in 1937. Producer David Sclzniek 
bought the rights to the book fi1r $50,000, 

hlW movies in history aro as well-known which was an unheard of amount at the and wnll-lovnd as "(;onn with the Wind," time. !lis investment paid off, though, tho dassk taln of love, loss and survival since "Gone with the Wind" has gone on to during tim Civil War and Heeonstruetion. It become one of the highest-grossing films spawnnd tlw Anwrkan Film Institute's top of all time. most-quoted line in film history -The film has beeome a llollywood staple "Frankly my dear, I don't ).,rive a damn."­and is the ultimate standard by which and is, hnyond mere quotes, an estab­swooping, epic dramas are judged. The lislwd pinen of dnema history. film is epie in every sense of the word -it 
"(;one with the Wind" follows Scarlett was the most expensive film at the time, it O'llara (Vivien Loighl, a tP.mpestuous had more than a three-hour run time, and Southern bnlle, and the struggles she faces it had a host of backstage drama sur­lwforn and al'tnr tlw Civil War. !lor story rounded filming. It unabashedly romanti­prnsnnts the war cizes the South, and Hm:onstrudion and its epic cine­
Gone with the Wind

l'rom the perspne­matography accen­tivn of a woman, 
tuates the melodra­and slw faens myri­matic storyline. ad d i ffieultios The combination throughout the of an appealing
Director: Victor Fleming

course of the film. heroine and her
Writer: Sydney Howard

S hn dllfn n d s her romances and the
Starring: Vivien Leigh, Clark Gable,

homo from pillaging epie downfall of
Leslie Howard, Olivia de Havilland

armins, knnps hnr antebellum family togetlwr in Southern society the artnrrnath of' war and ultimately perse­makes for a powerful lilm. "Gone with the vnros through shonr detormination. Wind" could have easily boon a massive 
Scarlott's rnlationships, including throe failure, but a unique combination of ele­marriagns and one unroquited love, are a ments came together and allowed it to major part. of' the lilm's drama, especially arguably be one of the greatest films to whon she aligns herself with Hhett Butler ever eome out of llollywood. (Clark Gable). Their fiery relationship has "Gone with the Wind" was one of the bm:ome tho stufl" of dnema legend and has pioneering Tcchnkolor films, and it used made the names of' their characters syn­the vivid colors to great effect in sueh onymous with another famous doomed famous scenes as the "Burning of the eouplo -Homeo and Juliet. Atlanta Depot." · 

-
"Gone with the Wind" follows Scarlett O'Hara (VIvien Leigh), right, and Rhett Butler (Clark Gable) during the Civil War. It played Saturday at the DPAC. 
The film went through a number of dif­Oscar. ferent directors before it was completed. "Gone with the Wind" is a dassie in Clark Gable got original director George many senses. It established the epk film Cukor tired, and the next director, Vietor and a numbnr of tropes that am assoeiat­-­Fleming, collapsed from nervous exhaus­ed with it. It also assemblod a groat east, tion. Director Sam Wood, along with which created a host of eharaeters indeli­uncredited help from Cameron Menzies bly marked on the conseiousness of and David Selzniek, ultimately helped fin­llollywood and viewers in general. Bnyond ish the film. the spoeifies, though, it possesses tho "it" 
The film was nominated for 13 Oscars faetor that you ean't quite doscribn but can and won 8 of them in 1939. Vivien Leigh always sense while viewing a grnat movie. won for Best Actress, and Best Supporting Actress I Iattie McDaniel ("Mammy") was Contact Molly Griffin at 
-
the first African-American to win an mgriffin@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Predictable, irreverent 'Waiting ...' still humorous 
By MARK BEMENDERFER A.sistant Scene Ediwr 
Hyan Heynolds is quickly becoming the aetor of choke for collegn students everywhore. Through his starring role in "Van Wildnr" and cameo appeat­ancn in "llarold and Kumar Go To White Castle," Hnynolds has devclopod an on-screen persona that is oasily idnntif"iable and often hilarious for viewers. 
In "Waiting... ," Reynolds' latest movin releasnd on DVD, he plays his trademark charactor. Sarcastic, witty and sonwtimes insightful, Heynolds ads as tho odgy quasi-jerk character namod Monty. Promiscuous and self­<:entnrnd. it is the ro!P that Heynolds has masternd to a seienee and makes for an <mjoyable vi11wing. 
Monty, along with a cast of colorful eharaetnrs, works in a family restau­rant called Shenanigans. Loosely based on snvnral wnll-known chains, Slwnanigans manages to look instant­ly familiar despitn boing completely fietitious. Handom kniek-knaeks hang on the walls, and the atmosphere will lw rm:ognizablo to most viewers. 
Tho title of thn r11staurant is surpris­ingly appropriate for the movie, as cheeky shenanigans rule the film. Irreverent and entertaining, "Waiting... " doesn't try to pass itself ofT as high-art. It plays out more like Heynolds' previous movies, although at moments it does get slightly seri­ous. 
It's structured like one would expect, with the aforementioned col­orful east. 
Each of the expected stereotypes is present, but they remain interesting despite their predictable nature. Justin Long plays Dean, one of Monty's friends who isn't exactly sure what he wants from life. Meandering through a community college, his lack of solid direction may mirror many students-making him an identifiable character. 
The manager of Shenanigans is the old guy who tries too hard to be eool and yet is simply too far removed from his employees to really understand thnm. There is also the waitress who openly hates her job, but manages to hide her distaste from the customers. 
The rest of the characters also fill out rather one-dimensional roles, but this shallowness doesn't necessarily hinder thn movie. They are the char­
acters that one finds in any teen or college com­edy, and they are more likable because of their familiarity. 
The movie takes place over a single day, show­ing a full 24 hours in the lives of the members of the restaurant. What happens after the day isn't explained and may leave some viewers with questions, but this lack of explanation is excusable, as it doesn't detract f'rom the humor. 


The special features for "Waiting... " are fairly diverse as well. The DVD comes in a two-dise unrated deluxe edition. In the special features are the usual extras, such as outtakes, deleted scenes, alternate takes and commen­taries. Some of them are entertaining, but most were not used in the film for obvious reasons. 
Two features, sueh as "Sending it back: The Real Dish on Waiting 
Tables" and "That-Little Extra docu­mentary" help round out the packago by elaborating on some of tho seenns ­in the movie, adding some helpful background material. 
"Waiting... " is meant to bo a rathor predictable, cheesy movie. Taken in that light, it's very entertaining and fills the role well. But those looking for a deep, meaningful film should explore other venues. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 

Monday, February 20, 2006

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
ND SOFTBALL 


Luck runs out in Las Vegas 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
The Irish got off to a slow start this weekend by dropping three out of five games in the UNLV Desert Classic. The team played doubleheaders on Friday and Saturday and finished the trip with an early game Sunday morning against Cal State Fullerton. 
"The trip did not go exactly as planned, because we walk into every contest expecting to win," senior pitcher Heather Booth said. "However, we did learn a lot about ourselves as a team." 
Friday's first game was a 5-4 loss to Colorado State. 
Rams' pitcher Kim Klabough was only three outs away from throwing a no-hitter until the

-
Irish bats woke up in the sev­enth inning. Freshman Liiida Kohen brought the Irish within one with a three-run home run in her first career game. The shot was the frrst of three that she hit while in Vegas. Despite coming up short, Notre Dame was able to take momentum and a little more 
confidence into the second game of the day against BYU. Mallorie Lenn had the big hit for the Irish in the contest with a grand slam in the sixth inning that gave them an 8-3 win. 
Brittney Bargar· earned the win in her pitching debut, going 4 1/3 innings and giving up only two runs on three hits. 
"I think that Bargar did a great job handling her first weekend out as a freshman," Booth said. "She is a fighter and worked hard out there." 
Bargar did not wait long for an encore performance against the host Rebels of UNLV. The win came only a few hours after being shut out by a strong Oregon State team, 5-0. 
Just like the day before, the Irish were able to bounce back, beating UNLV 6-4. Notre Dame jumped out to an early lead with a five-run third inning. Kohen (2-for-3) added another with a homer down the right field line in the fourth, and Booth came in to close the door as the Irish evened their record at 2-2. 
The seesaw weekend con­cluded with a 9-3 loss to Cal State Fullerton. The Titans used the long ball -eight of their nine runs came on home runs -to pull away early, as well as fight off any comeback from the Irish. Ashlee Van Boxmeer hit two of the shots, while Jenna Wheeler added a third to seal the Titan victory in the fifth inning. 
The one bright spot for Notre Dame in the game was Kenya Fuemmeler, who gave up only one run after coming in to pitch the final three innings. 
Team members were in rela­tively good spirits following the tough stretch, focusing on their potential for a successful year. The Irish will try to make a few changes before heading to Miami next weekend for a simi­lar tournament hosted by Florida International. 
"We have a lot to improve on but are by no means deflated after the weekend. We realize it's not about where we start, but where we finish," Booth said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmnrphy6@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

Midwest povverhouses await tea111 in Florida 
By TIM KAISER Sports Writer 

Notre Dame begins its fall sea­son today at the Central District Classic in Parrish, Fla. The tour­nament is hosted by Michigan State and will be played today and tomorrow at the River Wilderness Golf Club. 
The Irish are looking to improve on last year's perform­ance, which saw them finish 13th out of 15 teams. This year, the team traveled to Florida a few days early to sharpen its game before its spring debut by prac­ticing on the par 72, 6,099-yard course. 
This year, the sixth-seeded Irish will face off against a field of 14 other teams, most of which are from the Midwest region ­Baylor, Illinois State, Kansas, Kansas State, LSU, Michigan, Michigan State, Missouri, Nebraska, Northwestern, Ohio State, SMU and Texas Tech. 
"All except for three teams are within 1 0 spot<; of us in the rank­ings. We're thirty-fifth overall, and most of the other teams are within 25 to 45." 
The Irish will go with a lineup of Noriko Nakazaki, Usa Maunu, Katie Brophy, Lauren Gebauer and Suzie Hayes. 
"Nakazaki consistently plays really well and finishes at the top of every tournament that she enters," Brophy said. "I usually play pretty well. Everyone's games are coming on right now. Everyone has been working real­ly hard to play well, in this tour­nament and the rest." 
The Irish also have clear cut goals for the tournament. 
"[We hope to 1 break 300 for all three rounds, break 295 for one round and remain patient and persistent," Brophy said. 
After the Classic, the squad has a few weeks off until it plays in the 'Mo' Moria! in Bryan, Texas March 10-12. 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu 

-
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 


Loss to UConn knocks the wind out of struggling Irish 
With 5:30 left in the game games usually end up being Notre Dame couldn't stop the ent. This year, the Irish entered 35 percent on the year behind Sunday and Notre Dame down decided by some plays that hap­pendulum from swinging further in a serious funk with serious the line. 62-52, Megan Duffy drove to the pen during key times during the and further towards problems and an RPI that puts Notre Dame did have a few lane. She dribbled, elevated and game. What Ann does a lot for us Connecticut's end. them on the bubble for the NCAA encouraging moments Sunday, then drew contact. is, she'll make shots at those key "I realize, it's my senior year, Tournament. This year, the Irish but they were fewer and further 
But no foul 
junctures of the game that end you can't be worried about being truly needed to win. between as the game got into its was called, up turning the game." fatigued and being tired. I've But they couldn't correct their most crucial stages. the ball rat­That shot with 5:20 left was learned to push myself through problems, and they couldn't win. Late in the game, Connecticut tled out of the exactly one of those. all of it," Duffy said. "We [only] Strother was just one of several just kept on pounding the Irish on cylinder and The Irish played Connecticut have three games left, and we Huskies to take advantage of both ends of the court. The Duffy hit the close for the first 32 minutes, but need to win every single one of 'Notre Dame's biggest weakness Huskies added bucket after buck­ground hard. the Huskies managed to break them." all season-perimeter defense. et and made free throw after free 
"I got hit in away with an 18-4 run in a six­But the Irish came into this Opponents entered shooting 37 throw to extend the lead to 18 the stomach minute time span. After Notre game saying that same thing: percent against the Irish from with 4:22 remaining in the game. and got the Dame cut the lead to 52-48, "We need to win." behind the arc, and Connecticut Notre Dame cut the lead by five wind knocked out of me," Duffy Strother made two free throws, a For the past decade, the Irish raised that average against a but never got within 10 points said. 3-pointer from the left side and have always said that they flailing Notre Dame zone with a after Strother's vital three. With 
Ken Fowler

It was that then her coup de grace to put the "need" to beat Connecticut. devastating 10-of-19 (52.6 per­four seconds left and the Irish kind of a night Sports Writer game out of reach. Sometimes, they've needed to cent) performance from long still pressing, Connecticut's for the Irish. With Duffy struggling to get beat the Huskies for seeding range. Chadre Houston found Renee 
Connecticut's Ann Strother was back to her feet at the other end going into the conference tourna­"The guards did a poor job of Montgomery for an easy layup to 
-
the one knocking the wind out of of the court after Strother's shot, ment. Other times, they've need­finding the shooters [in the first cap the scoring for the Huskies. the Irish most of the game. The Irish coach Muftet McGraw called ed a win to secure a spot in the half1. and in the second half, I That was the fmal time senior entered the contest aver­a 30-second timeout. It was a AP top-20. thought the back line did a poor Connecticut knocked the wind aging 14.3 points and 5.2 futile act of desperation. But this year was different. job offmding the shooters," out of Notre Dame. The Irish rebounds per game. She lived up "They got a couple of threes, This year, Notre Dame entered McGraw said. need to hope the blows they took to her reputation as a cool shoot­got a couple offensive rebounds, the game floundering in the bot­If the Irish, now three games Sunday don't carry over er when the heat is turned on, made a steal off the press," tom third of the Big East with just under .500 in the Big East with Wednesday against West hitting three crucial three-point­McGraw said. "And at that point, two weeks remaining in the sea­three to play, hope to get to eight Virginia, or else they may see ers in the second half, including we kind of lost our momentum. son. This year, the team had wins -a total they may need to their invitation to the Big Dance one on the ensuing possession We just didn't have the offensive already succumbed to mediocre garner an at-large bid into the slip away. after Duffy went down. frrepower to get back in the squads like Villanova, South NCAA Tournament-they must 
"Ann's never been afraid to game." Florida and St. John's. This year, correct that problem. The team's The views expressed in this col­take shots," Connecticut head Duffy managed to stay in the the Irish had been blown out on next contest is against West umn are those ofthe author and coach Geno Auriema said after game after the timeout and play the road by Rutgers and DePaul Vrrginia, which has shown a not necessarily those ofThe the game. "Notre Dame is a good the full 40 minutes -as she before meeting the Huskies. propensity for shooting from Observer. Contact Ken Fowler at team playing at home, and those seemingly always does -but This year, the game was differ-deep. The Mountaineers are over kfowlerl@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

- WANTED Civil Engineer-We are seeking May 2006 grads w/a BS in Civil Engineering. Job functions consist of land devel- FoR SALE A 4 bdrm, 2bth newly remodeled house near campus. $90,000. Call 220-8666.  For Graduation and Sports Events. 2BR Guest House. Fully furnished. 25 minutes from Campus, overlook­ing Diamond Lake. Owner lives next door. Low rates for longer rentals. 269-445-8468 or geok21751 @yahoo.com  Rent furnished house-walk ND. 3 students $300, 4-$275 + utilities. ADT. 574-309-3105. 2-3-4 BEDROOMS. Immediate & 2006-07. Security,phone included. 315-3215. ndstudentrentals.com  Stop overpaying for rent. Visit BlueGoldrentals.com 123 ND Ave. 3-bdrm, 1.5 bath. Call 574-229-0149.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don not go it alone.lf you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, esc, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  
opment engineering for Site/Civil firm in Indiana and Florida. Please send all resumes and ques­lions to mhoward@ rw-engineer­ foR RENT COLLEGE PARK CON DOMINI- Area houses and apartments for rent. Log onto MichianaRentals.com. Call 574-993-RENT (7368)  3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Website: mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary 574-993-2208 or grooms@ourweb­spot. net  PERSONAL Travel Services to Jamaica, Mexico, Bahamas and Florida. Do  "You're pushing these children for all the wrong reasons So far man you're crushing down their spirits  

ing.com 
Kaplan: summer office help needed $7.00/hour 272-4135 
UMS AVAILABLE FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED­ROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY. 235­7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED­ROOM HOMES· MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 

A 4 bdrm, 2bth house near campus. All appliances included. Pets wei­come. $1350. Call220-8666. 
not get !eft behind! Book now, limit­ed space available. Call for group discounts. Info/Reservations 800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com 
Suffocate, emancipate, turn their backs and walk away eventually" -"Fred Astaire" by Lucky Boys Confusion 





OUND THE NATION 
Monday, February 20, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NBA Standings 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pet. GB New Jersey 28·23 .549 Philadelphia 25·27 .481 3.5 Boston 20·32 .385 8.5 Toronto 20·33 .377 9 New York 15·37 .288 13.5 
Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team rneord pet. GB 
Detroll 42·9 .824 Cleveland 31-21 .596 11.5 Indiana 26·23 .531 15 Milwaukee 27·25 .519 15.5 Chicago 23·29 .442 19.5 

Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
I.Pam record pet. GB 
Miami 33-20 .623 Washington 26·25 .510 6 Orlando 19·32 .373 13 Atlanta 16·34 .320 15.5 Charlotte 14·40 .259 19.5 

Western Conference, Northwest Division 
tc>arn rc>cord pet. GB 
Denver 28·26 .519 Utah 25-27 .481 2 Minnesota 23·29 .442 4 Seattle 20·33 .377 7.5 Portland 18·33 .353 8.5 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 

tourn rtlCilrd pet. GB Phoenix 35·17 .673 LA Clippers 30·21 .588 4.5 LA Lakers 26·26 .500 9 Golden State 24·28 .462 11 Sacramento 24·29 .453 11.5 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
tc>am rP-cord pet. GB 

Dallas 41-11 .788 San Antonio 40·12 .769 1 New Orleans 29·23 .558 12 Memphis 29·23 .558 12 Houston 22·31 .415 19.5 
Men's College Basketball Big East Conference 

tPam  coni'.  ovnrall  pd.  
Villanova  11·1  21·2  .913  
Connecticut  10·2  23·2  .920  
West Virginia  9·3  18-7  .720  
Pittsburgh  9·4  20·4  .833  
Georgetown  8·5  17·7  .708  
Marquette  8·5  18·8  .692  
Seton Hall  7·5  16·8  .667  
Cincinnati  7·6  18·9  .667  
Syracuse Rutgers  ..  6·6 5·8  18·8 15·11  .692 .577  
louisville  4·8  16·9  .640  
NOTRE DAME  4·8  13·10  .565  
Providence  4·8  11-12  .478  
St. John's  4·8  11-13  .458  
DePaul  3·9  10·13  .435  
South Florida  0·12  6·19  .240  

around the dial 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL West Virginia at Syracuse, 7 p.m., ESPN Oklahoma at Texas Tech, 9 p.m., ESPN 
WINTER OLYMPICS 8 p.m., NBC 
NASCAR 


Associated Press 
DAYTONA BEACII, Fla. -Maybe Jimmie Johnson didn't need to clwat to win his first Daytona 500. 
Johnson won a two-lap shootout Sunday to claim tho victory, capping a roller-coaster week that saw NASCAH kiek his crew r.hief out of competition for dwating. 
Johnson had a strong car when he arrived at Daytona International Spomlway 10 days ago, and posted the fifth-fastest time in time trials. But when NASCAH gave his Chevrolnt a caref'ul oncP--over, inspec· tors discovered that Chad Knaus had made an illegal modilication. 

Knaus was sent home, seemingly spoiling Johnson's shot to win The Gmat Amnrican Hace. 
Not on this Sunday. 

"I know deep down inside my heart that this team could still win this race," Johnson said in Victory Lann. "There's no doubt that not having Chad here was a hugo ha11dieap, but evorybody stepped up. I am just so proud of this team." 
Johnson stay1~d calm and avoided trouble in a wild racP. that saw Tony Stewart oliminatn thnw contenders: Jeff Gordon, Matt Knnseth and himself. Then Johnson worked his way to the front. staying in line and waiting for his chance to pounce. 
It carne with 14 laps to go when he squooznd past teammate Brian Vickers to grab thn lnad just as a cau­tion 1~mne out. Johnson was at the f'ront of the lield on the restart, the lnad driver in a singln-filn pack of ears sprinting toward the nnd. 
Jamie McMurray wrecked with snvnn laps to go to bring out lliJP final caution. It set up an over­time finish, but no one was able to challenge him. 
IN BRIEF 
Forsberg sits out Sweden's 
victory over USA 
TURIN, Italy -Peter Forsberg was back on Sweden's bench Sunday ­without his helmet, stick and gloves. 
Since Sweden already locked up a berth in the men's Olympic hockey quarterfinals, the Philadelphia Flyers' star decided to sit out his country's 2-1 victory over the U.S. lie took a spot at the far right side of the boneh. but stood out because he was tho only one in uniform without the nocnssary playing oquipment. 
"Wn're just playing for position­ing," Forsborg said after tho game. "It's not likn you have to win or you're out." 
SwedPn movod into tho medal round earlior Sunday when Hussia boat Latvia 9-2, guarantnning that tlw Swndes would finish among tlw top four in the six-tnam group. · 
Forsbnrg said hn nxpnds to play Tunsday against Slovakia in tho final t uno up be fo rn tlw m nd a I round lwgins Wednesday. 

Jagr p~ays SP-aringly in 
Czech WID over Italy 
TUHIN. Italy-Jaromir Jagr played two periods for the Cznch Hepublic in its men's hockey win over Italy on Sunday, one night after being cut on the head against Finland. 
"lie didn't feel well and after two periods, we decided to give him a rest." Czech assistant eoaeh Ondroj Weissman said through an inter­preter. "lie has a blow on his head, and we had to adjust his helmnt, so it was not pleasant for him." 
Jagr was hurt when Finland's Jarkko Huutu sped across the iee from the far edge of the lnft eirdo, his left elbow up, and slamnwd Jagr into thn boards in a light for the puck dur­ing the soeond period. 
Team spokesman Pavel Barta said Sunday that Jagr did not have a eon­cussion. 
"lle wanted to play tonight. but wn did not need him to play the whole game against Italy," Barta said. "lin just needs rest." 
Earnhardt was tho first drivnr to pull out of line and mak1~ a run at Johnson. but got no draf't­ing lwlp and had znro charH~n of eatching him. 
Then Hyan N1~WIIHUl took his shot, pulling out from behind Johnson. But just likn Junior, lw difln't. gd any assistance and 1~ould only squnezn bark into place. 
Tlwre were no morn challenges to .Johnson. who won in his lifth Daytona try whon a final accident brought out the caution and allowed him to cross tlw finish linn UJl(}nr a ynl­low flag. 
Former Olympic champion
charged for steroids 
SYDNEY, Australia -The Australian SporL'i Commission reoponnd an inves­tigation Monday into daims former Olympic champion Said Aouita encour­aged athletes to use performance­enhancing drugs during his tnrm as Australia's distancn coach. 
Stnnplechaser Melissa Hollison, intnr· viewed by an Australian nnwspapnr, rnnewnd allegations that thn Olympic 5,000 metnrs champion urged lwr to takn human growth hormorw during a training camp in Albuqunrqun, Nnw Mnxico in 20ll4. 
"lin talked about it eviH"Y day," Hollison said. "W1~ had to go to Arnnrka becaLJS(' that is wlwrn you w~t IICll." 
Hollison says slw told Aouita slw wasn't. internstnd in taking steroids. 
AthiPt.ks Australia chiP!' exc>cutiVI' Danny Corcoran said Hollison's aIIega· lions had bePn rdnrTI'd to tlw Australian Sports Commission for invnstigation. 
---------------, 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 20, 2006 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 


Hot doubles pairings give team two top 25 wins 
By DAN TAPETILLO Sports Writer 
In order to be the best, you have to compete with the best. 
The Irish held themselves to this maxim this weekend in wins over No. 9 Harvard and No. 22 Tennessee at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Notre Dame remained undefeated and improved its record to 7-0 this year -its best start since the 1985-86 season. Also, the upset over Harvard marks the team's second win against a top-10 foe in 2006, fol­lowing the victory over then-No. 9 North Carolina on Feb. 12. 
In their match against the Crimson, the Irish began the con­test by sweeping the doubles matches, including a win from the No. 1 pairing of Catrina and Christian Thompson. The twins topped Harvard's No. 6 duo of Melissa Anderson and Elsa O'Riain 9-8 (7-5) to earn the dou­bles point. 
The Thompsons needed to overcome a 6-5 deficit and an eventual tiebreaker to top Anderson and O'Riain. 
"They were down most of the match," Irish sophomore Brook Buck said. "They really fought back and played big on the big points." 
In addition to the Thompsons' victory, Notre Dame's No. 35 pair­ing of Buck and freshman Kelcy Tefft downed Harvard's Stephanie Schnitter and Eva Wang, 8-1. Notre Dame's No. 45 duo of seniors Kiki Stastny and captain Lauren Connelly also won by an 8-1 decision over Harvard's Cindy Chu and Preethi Mulmndan. 
In singles, No. 24 Catrina Thompson led the team with her come-from-behind win over Harvard's Eva Wang 6-4, 3-6, 1-0 (10-1) at No.1. 
Following at No. 2 was Christian Thompson, who suf­fered a 7-5, 7-5 loss to O'Riain. 

Buck played at No. 3 for the Irish with a 7-6 (7 -4), 6-0 win over Anderson. During the con­test, Anderson suffered a code violation during the first set after hitting a ball into another court ­granting Buck a point. Following the call, Anderson appeared to have lost her sense of momentum. 
"The first set was very intense, and we were both on our serves." Buck said. "But then she got a code violation and mentally just broke down and stopped fighting ... I've never played a match like that before." 
Following Buck's contest against Anderson, Tefft topped the Crimson's No. 67 Mukundan and clinched the victory for the Irish at No.4. 
Stastny, playing at No. 5 for Notre Dame, lost her first dual match in singles this season. Stastny dropped the contest to Schnitter 7-6 (7-5), 3-6, 1-0 (10­5). 
Competing at the No. 6 position for the Irish, freshman Katie Potts downed Chu 6-1, 6-2. 
No. 15 Notre Dame 7 No. 22 Tennessee 0 
The Irish defeated the Lady Vols 7-0 to earn their second shutout ofthe season. 
Notre Dame began the contest sweeping the doubles matches for the fifth time in sixth matches. 
The Thompsons, playing at No. 1 for the team, finished first as they topped Tennessee's Melissa Schaub and Ghizela Schutte 8-1. 
"This win defmitely helped our confidence," Christian Thompson said. "But knowing we have two other great doubles teams relieves a lot of the pressure." 
Following at No. 2 were Buck and Tefft, who defeated the Lady Vols' Blakeley Griffith and Victoria Jones, 8-3. Last off the court were Connelly and Stastny, who downed Tennessee's Stephanie Harris and Samantha Orlin, 8-3. 
In singles, Stastny was first off the court as she cruised to her 15th victory of the season with a win over Harris 6-3, 6-1 at No. 5. 
Playing at No. 2 was Catrina Thompson, who fmished second for the team as she topped Jones 6-1,6-2. 
Buck followed Thompson with a 6-3, 6-4 win over Schutte as she clinched the victory for the Irish at the No. 3 position. 
Tefft and Potts defeated Schutte 6-3, 6-4 and Orlin 7-5, 5-7 1-0 (12-10) at Nos. 4 and 6, respec­tively. 
No. 44 Christian Thompson closed out the victory with a long match against Griffith. Thompson came out with the 5-7, 7-6 (7-3), 1-0 (10-3) win. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 
ND MEN'S TENNIS 

Win pushes Irish past Wolverines in all-tim_e victories 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
After struggling earlier this sea­son, Notre Dame extended its win­ning streak to five matches this weekend, improving to 7-4 with a win at Michigan. 
The Irish topped the Wolverines 5-2 in a closely-fought match Saturday night between two of college tennis' most winning pro­grams. Notre Dame is No. 7 in all­time wins with 1,020 after Saturday's victory, while Michigan is No. 8 with 1,012. 
"It was a very tough, tense match," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "[Michigan] played extremely hard, they competed well -our guys, to their credit, took Michigan's best shots and had a little more left at the end." 
The Irish were upset by a lower­ranked team in the doubles point for the first time this season, as they struggled to get on the boards and ended up losing two of the three matches. 
"They were all over us," Bayliss said. "They were approaching a lot -they're very active at the net, and they were returning aggressively." 
Ryan Keckley and Barry King fell at No. 1 to Brian Hung and Matko Maravic, 8-6, and Scott Brockmann and Steve Peretz clinched the point at No. 3 with an 8-6 win over Brett Helgeson and Andrew Roth. 
"Michigan came out with early breaks in all three matches and really put us back on our heels ... we got down in all three matches and never really caught up," Bayliss said. 
But Eric Langenkamp and Sheeva Parbhu pulled out a close win at No. 2, defeating Ryan Heller and Andrew Mazlin 9-8 (7­
3) to avoid the sweep. 
The Irish were down 1-0 going into the singles portion of the match and were soon down 2-0 after Parbhu lost to Maravic 6-3, 6-4 at No.2. 

HOLY 
CROSS 
COLLEGE 
You can advance the Catholic Mission of Holy Cross! 
HALL DIRECTORS NEEDED 2006-2007 HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
GRAD STUDENTS 
LAW STUDENTS 
Undergraduates are also encouraged to inquire about RA vacancies 

CONTACT RESLIFE(a{liCC-ND.EDU 

However, Stephen Bass rallied to top Hung 7-5, 6-2 at No. 1 to put the Irish back on the boards. The team never looked back, reel­ing off four more singles victories for the win. 
"Stephen deserves a ton of cred­it for fighting off Hung, who had beaten him in the semifinals of the regional championships a year ago [in 2004]," Bayliss said. Helgeson dropped his second set, but won 6-4, 3-6, 6-2 at No. 3 to tie the match at 2-2. 
Captain Patrick Buchanan, play­ing at the No. 6 spot after King left with an ~jury, won 1-6, 6-3, 6-1 to put the Irish one match away from the win. 
"I think [Patrick] started off slow," Bayliss said. "I think [Bruckmann] put Patrick back on his heels but Patrick was able to step up in the court and begin to dictate." 
Keckley clinched the match at No. 4 with a 2-6, 6-3, 6-3 win over Heller. 
"Ryan has been so good for us this year," Bayliss said. "He has become our strongest point. He broke serve to win the match at 5­3 in the third -he was actually 
. up two service breaks at the end of the match. Once he got his bearings in the second set he real­ly didn't look back." 
Langenkamp closed out the match with a 6-4, 6-7 (4-7), 1-0 (10-2) win at No. 5. 
The Irish host Ohio State at 4 
p.m. Friday at Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 




~;... Coffee and.Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, February 21 7:30-9:30 p.m.· 316 Coleman-Morse 


The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites gay. lesbian, and bisexual members of the Noire Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
EverYone is welcome and confidentiality is assured, 
Coffee and refreshments will be served 
THE STANDING 
COMMITTEE ON 
GAY &lESBIAN STUDENT NEEDS 


Monday, February 20, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
HocKEY 

Three-point weekend puts home ice in reach 
Hy CHRIS KHOREY 
Sports Writer 
In a w1wknnd snrins crucial in tlwir quost to narn homo ic:e advantagn for lhn f'irst round of' tho eonf'nrt~nee playoff's, the Irish nolclwd a 7-4 win and a 1-1 tin Friday and Saturday, rnspnctivnly, in gamos at Bowling Grnnn. 

Tlw eon lnsts boostnd Notrn Dame thrnn points in the standings and left tlw Irish in a thn~n-way tin with Alaska­Fairbanks and Ferris Statn for eighth in thn CCIIA and the l'inal homn ien spot. Thn Irish (12-16-4. 10-12-4 CCIIAI will takn on thn Nanooks in two games, thnir last of tho regular snason, at the Joycn Centnr this wneknnd. The Bulldogs f'at:n No. R Michigan. 
"Everybody that's vying for anywhnre from fifth to 1Oth will son thnir situation chango with nvnry gamn next wonk," Notrn Damn c:oach JolT Jaekson said of tlw CCI lA's linal wonk­end. 
Friday's contnst betwnnn tho Fa!eons and Irish featured 11 goals, 14 penalties and a wildly bouncing puck. 
"It's likn playing pinball, with pueks bouneing all over the plaen,'' Jackson said of' Bowling Green's home arena. "Thny have partitions in the glass and the eorners are kind of square. The boards are pretty lively, too." 
Jaeks<in crt~dited the wild play to two emotional t11ams playing a very important game. 
"Friday's gamo was really emotional, really high intensi­ty," hn said. "Somntimes their emotion got them in trouble, and sometimes our nmotion got us in trouble." 
The Irish won Friday's wild shootout thanks to three goals from forward Mark Van (;uilder who, after a position switch, lit the lamp for the sixth, seventh and eighth time this year. 
"We moved him to center, whnre he's handling the puck more," Jackson said. "He was generating chances of'f' the rush and taking advantage of' 
it." 
The seven goals scored by the Irish were the most since Nov. 10. when they scored nine in a home gamn against Bowling Grnnn. 
"!The Falcons] worn really wide open and we took advan­tage," Jackson said of' Friday's contest. "Thny put their goal keeper into an awkward posi­tion with their penalty killing and some of' the odd man rush­es we had." 
Notrn Dame junior goalie DavP. Brown did not play Friday al'ter suffering an ill­ness for most of the week. lie was replaced by freshman Jordan Pearee, who started his first game since Dee. 2 and made 34 saves. 
"[Brown! missed Monday and Tuesday, and he practiced Wednesday but not very effec­tively," Jackson said. "It worked out OK, though, because I wanted to give Jordan a game, anyway. Playing all those games in a row, David's not going to be as fresh when we need him to 

be." 
Brown, who had started the last 22 contests l'or the Irish, was baek in net Saturday, where he made 34 saves and allowed just ono goal. 
Jackson said Saturday's game was mueh more subdued than Friday's, which led to the lower score. 
"There was more discipline in the game Saturday," he said. "I also think BowI i ng GI'IH~ n played a much better defensive game Saturday night. I thought their goaltendnr !Jimmy Spattl settled down and played much better." 
The Falcons scored l'irst Saturday, off' the. stiek of Falcon forward Jonathan Matsumoto at 8:51 of thn lirst po r iod o n a Bow Iin g GrtH~ n power play. 
The Irish waited almost two periods to answer before del'enseman Wes O'Neill led a breakaway, passing to forward Matt Amado. Amado's shot was deflected, but forward Josh Sciba pushed in the rebound to even the game up. 
Notes: 
+ Al'tnr shortnning praetiens from two hours to an hour and a half' a few wonks ago, Jaekson will lightnn his t1~am's workload again this week. Today tlw tnam will nw1~t hut is not selwdulnd to skate, and Wednnsday and Thursday's practices will bn mueh short1~r than previous wonks. 
"Wednnsday and Thursday will probably bn under an hour," Jackson said. 
+ 
Both gamns bntwtHHl llw Irish and Nanooks nnxt wonk wi II bn playnd at the .Joyen Center. Friday's ganw will begin at 7::{5 p.m. and will bP tnlevisnd on Con11:ast Local tPI­evision station. Saturday's eon­lost will fac:n-ofT at 7:05p.m. 

+ 
NotrL~ Damn did not havn to make the 4,000-miln trip to play Fairbanks in Alaska this season, The Irish travnlnd north last snason, splitting a two-gamn snrins with thn Nanooks on Nov. 26-27, 2004. 


Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Not playing in the same league: Flying Dutch crush Belles 
By FRAN TOLAN 
Sports Wrircr 

An ovnrmatchnd Saint Mary's team was beaten by llope Collnge 91-66 Saturday in the rngular snason linale for both squads. No. 7 llope now sports a 24-1 ovorall reeord and became the first MIAA team to llnish a season undefeated in 16 games of league play. Following the loss, the Belles are 11-14 overall and 9-7 in MIAA play. 
llope jumped out to an early 21-6 lead, knocking down seven of its first nine shots, 
and cruised to the easy victory in front of the home crowd. 
The Flying Dutch hit 50.8 percent of their field goal attempts in the contest and nailed 9-of-15 3-point attempts. 
Guard Bria Ebels led the way, hitting all six or her shot 
LEHMAN BROTHERS FINANCE INTERNSHIP PROGRAM INFORMATION SESSION 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2006 
11:00 A.M. -4:00 P.M. OPEN HOUSE 
CAREER RESOURCE CENTER FLANNER HALL ROOM 114 
C'asual Attire 
\Vc i1wite Soplwmorc:> and Juniors to join us and leam more about Lefmum Brothers and opportunities in the Finance Division 
FOR HlRTHER INFORMATION: WWW.LEHMAN.COM/CAREERS 

LEHMAN BROTHERS 
.. 
Where vision gets built.~ 
©2006 Lehman Brothers Inc. All Rights Reserved. Member SlPC. 

attempts and notching 23 points in just 26 minutes. Linda Ebels chipped in 17 points to go along with eight rebounds in the victory. 
Hope led 50-27 at halftime and widened its lead to as many as 41 points during the second period. 
"Their offense was almost impossible to stop," Belles head coach Steve Bender said. "We put up a lot or points, but they are a great team." 
For Saint Mary's, Bridget Boyce reached another mile­stone just one game after becoming the sixth Belle to scorn 1,000 career points. Against Hope, Boyce hit her 129th career three-pointer to set a school record. She scored 16 points in a losing effort. 
Alison Kessler led tho Belles with 20 points and Bridget Lipke added 10 to round out the double-digit scorers for Saint Mary's. 
On Tuesday, the Belles will host an MIAA playoff game for the lirst time in school history. They will take on Alma College, a team they defeated twice during the regular sea­son. 
Alma finished the snason with a 7-9 eonferenco record. 
Bendnr is very optimistic as his team prepares for the post­season tournament. 
"We did a lot of things well today so we're vnry excited about this game," hn said. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
An E:veningof Pra_yer from Around the World 

Please join us tor an eveningot 
Z.e~ Meditation 
as w•rt ofa series exploring the beliefs and practices of the worldsgr·eat: faith tmditions, 
c.uided by Dr. Thomas Fbtersen and Fr. Gene Gorski, C5C 
Thursda_y, February 2~ 1 2006 ~~0 Coleman-Morse 7-7:+5 pm 
Sponscwed b_LJ• wmpus Mini5tr_<J, t'<.1t> Graduate Re5odence.-, t>rilduate Stud.-nt Union, International Student Service,.; & Achvotoe,.;, Unive,..,.it_y Village, and ND Mu,.lim StudentAI<..'\Oeiabon 
CM 
.· 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 20, 2006 

Cha01ps 
continued from page 20 

-nearly every event saw an Irish athlete add to the point total, which was eventually enough to come away with the win. The Irish women finished as runners-up in the confer­ence championships the past three seasons after winning in 2002. 
"I feel good. I'm really happy about the team and the way everyone pushing everyone else," Erigha said. "I feel like we really bonded this weekend. It was really a collective effort -everyone made a difference in how it all turned out." 
"I think we're all really excit­ed -we went in with the expectation of winning, and we met it," Madia said. "It's a great feeling, and a big relief." 
The Irish men finished in third place with 94.5 points, trailing first-and second-place finishers Connecticut (135) and Hutgers (124). 
Junior Thomas Chamney did his part in the team's top-three finish, winning the 800-meter run (1 :49.88) and anchoring the Irish to victory in the 4x800 meter relay (7:28.84). 
The Irish now look ahead to the Alex Wilson Invitational, slated to take place at the Loftus Sports Center March 3­4. 
That will be the last meet before the NCAA Indoor Championships are held at Fayetville, Ark. during the weekend of March 10-11. 
The Alex Wilson Invitational will also be the last opportunity for members of both teams to qualify for the NCAA meet. 
However, after an impressive showing ·at the Big· East Championship, the team is looking to spend some time resting during the next few days and· working to perfect certain detailed aspects of events in time for the next meet. 
"This week, we'll probably take a step back, rest, and work on a few technical things, fine tuning before the Alex Wilson meet," Erigha said. 
"We'll just make sure we're recovered, get to work, and go and get ready to have a lot of NCAA qualifying runs at the Alex Wilson." 
Contact Jason Galvan at jgalvan@nd.edu 
HY PHAMfrhe Observer 
Senior Ryan Postel, right, gets ready to run the 60-meter dash at the Notre Dame Invitational Jan. 27. 
An E:veningof Pra.yer from Around the World 

Please join us f.:Jr-an eveningof 

Z.en Meditation 
as P.mi: ofa senes explor-ing the beliefs nnd practices of the worlds g,re."'lt faith traditions. 
Guided by Dr. Thomas Petersen and r--r. Gene Gorski, CSC 
Thursda_y, r-~6ruar_y 2:5,~ 2006 ;;o Coleman-Morse 1-7:+5 pm 
. Sponsot-ed btJ: Campu" M1ni,;try, r·c:_.}(, Graduate R.-_.,,de.nc.e". Graduate Studc'T1t Union, 
lnkrnabon<tl Student s...I"YIC.CS & /\cbvibe-<>, Univer-,.;tht Village, and HD Muslim Student .'\ssociation 
Cf1 


DUSTIN MENNELLNThe Observer 

Notre Dame runner Dominique Manning, right, races during the Meyo Invitational at Loftus Sports Center Feb. 4. The women rallied to win the Big East title Sunday afternoon. 

We're coming 
·toca:mpus on March 7 & 8 and want to meet YOU!· 
~1ease subrhlt your resume 1:hrough. GoiRISH by 


LEHMAN BROTHERS FINANCE INTERNSHIP PROGRAM INFORMATION SESSION 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2006 
11:00 A.M. -4:00 Jl.M. OPEN HOUSE 
CAREER RESOURCE CENTER PLANNER HALL ROOM 114 
Casual A.ttire 

We invite Sopfwrnores aud ]1miors to join us and learn more about Lehman Brothers and opportunities in the Finance Division 

Monday, February 20, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 


Pirates 
continued from page 20 
total of the snason in a 102-91 vietory over Snton IIall (16-H, 7­
5) in l•:ast Huthnrford, N.J. 
"Thorn's nothing likn winning," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said Sunday bnforn practice. 
Notrn Dame point guard Chris Quinn led all scorers with 34 poinl'i, and shooting guard Colin Falls scored a career-high 32 points on I 0-of-17 shooting (H­of-15 from :~-point range). The players eombirwd for morn than half of their tmun 's total. 
"J~spedally when [Colin [ is hit­ting shots. it makes us a much tougher team to guard," Quinn said Sunday. " ... We've got a rhance to still be a pretty good team." 
Tho Pirates ontornd the game frnsh oil' a 71-64 defeat of West Virginia Fnb. 14 but led only twkn in tho first fnw minutes bPii1re Notre Damn took eontrol of tlw pacn. Seton llall struggled to dofnnd iL'i opponent filr tlw full 40 minutes. 
The Irish wnre able to protect their lead by shooting H6.H pnr­<~nnt (:B-of-:~Hl from tho free throw linn, led by Quinn's pnrfilct 14-of-14 from the stripe. The team led H0-(J7 with 3:05 rnmaining after Falls sank one of his night 3-pointers. Then Pirates guard Jamar Nutter answered from deep to eut the lead to 10. 
The Irish converted just one field goal the remainder of the game on a dunk at 1:32 by for­ward Hiek Cornett. who made the frne throw to complete his seven-point. eight-rnbound per­formance. 
But Notre Damn made 20 of its 21 fme throws li1llowing Nuttnr's thrn<l, and Snton llall rwvnr got clos«l enough to joopardizn the Irish winning llulir third straight. 
"Wp'rn going to make plays and fight to the end in every ganw," Falls said. "If we get a lead, I think we can protect it because we can shoot free throws." 
Seton llall fell despite having four scorers in double l'igures and roceiving 28 points from guard Donald Copeland, who at points was the only scoring option on the floor for the strug­gling Pirates. 
Nuttor exploded at the end of the first half for seven points in the linal two minutes to cut a 12­point Notre Dame lead to eight at half, with the Irish up 44-36. But Notm Dame forced Pirates coach Louis Orr to use a timeout less than two minutes into the second half. 
Irish guard Hussell Carter (17 points, eight rebounds) and Falls each hit threes, and Falls sank a two-point bucket as well to score the hairs first eight points before Seton Hall had gottnn off morn than one lield goal attempt. 
"Thoy gave us a pretty good punch at the end of the half," Brey said. " ... We had playP.d so well up until that point. I thought we did a good job and show some maturity to respond and open up the half with a punch right back." 
Pirates forward Kelly Whitney scored the game's first points and gave his team one of its two total loads in the game at 2-0. Alter the teams exchanged leads, Whitney tied the game at 9-9 with 15:04 remaining. 
But Irish li>rward Hob Kurz (11 points. 9-of-1 0 free throws) fol­lownd a Torin Francis miss at the 
14:00 mark to take tho lead for good. 
"Winning a big one like that on the road givns you a little added conlidencn," Quinn said. "After what this team has been through, it does feel good to get on a little streak here. Three games in a row might not be much. hut it does !eel good." 
Notrn Dame's season-high pre­vious to Saturday's outburst came in a 100-97 double-over­time loss to Pittsburgh Jan. 4. 
Saturday's win means Notre Dame has the same B"ig East record as Louisville and Providence (4-8), but the Irish would qualify if the Big East Tournament began tomorrow. 
The Irish would lose a tiebreaker to Louisville but would earn the 12th and l'inal spot in the tournament, having defeated Providence 92-77 on Jan. 14. 
Seton Hall is seventh in the conference and less than a game ahead of Cincinnati (7 -6). 
Notes: 
+ Francis scored just one point Saturday to add to Cornett's soven points. but the Notre Dame frontcourt had a much larger impact than the box score indi­cated. 
The seniors collected 18 rebounds combined and neutral­ized Seton Hall's leading scorer, Kelly Whitney. 
Whitney l'inished with 14 points but scored the majority down the stretch. when the Irish were trying not to foul and were avoiding the contact Whitney normally creates. 
Pirates coach Louis Orr also played starting center Grant Billmeier just 15 minutes. Billmeier was ineffective early and finished with two turnovers. two rebounds and no points. 
"Our big guys-if we're gonna make a run at New York -are going to have to be really good the rest of the way," Brey said. 
+ Back in black? 
Notre Dame's offensive out­burst oecurred in its first game wearing the new black jerseys with grnen trim. So will the team wnar the uniforms again? 
"We needed to change some­thing up," Falls said. "We didn't even know until Friday, and they look sharp. It was pretty cool, and I think wn'll stick with them." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


Mondav2/20 
Opening Reception 
with Architecture and 
Indus trial Design 
Student Projects 
&om 
O'Shag Great Hall 

Thursdav 2/23 
Haitian history, society, economy, and religion: Student Presentations by Karen Richman's class on the 19th and 20th Centuries 
2-3:15Pm Kellogg C-103 
ruesdav 2/21 
Student Presentations by Karen Richman's class on the Revolution 
2·3:15pmKellogg C-103 
The Agronomist (and a moderated discussion) 
7-9pm Kellogg c..103 


Huskies 
continued from page 20 
to a 21-21 tie with 9:19 to go. Shortly thereafter, the Huskies brielly took control or the game, and l'ive straight points from guard Ann Strother gave Connecticut a 31-23 advantage with 6:07 to play. 
In that span; the lluskies were able to repeatndly take advantage of open jumpors set up ofl' the drive. 
"The guards did a poor job of finding the shooters," McGraw said. 
But the Irish wero able to reeov­er [rom the deficit. and by half­time had cut the load to 37-33. In the second half. tho Irish came out strong, erasing tho gap ;md taking a one-point load twice in tho first six minutes. 
Notre Dame was never able to nxtend its lead. however. as Connecticut always count.Prnd any Irish threat -generally with a 3­pointnr. The Huskies, who worn 1 0-of-19 from bnyond tlm are, had thrnn players shoot over 50 per­cent from 3-point range, induding St.rotlmr, who was 5-oi~H. 
"Thny just had too many wmtpons lbr us," McGraw said. 
As the dP.fieit began to grow, Notre Dmne comebaek attmnpl'> were stymied in part by Connecticut's relnntless elli1rl'i to shut down snnior point guard Megan Dully. the team's loading offensive weapon. DuiTy. who scored 11 points on just 2-of-7 shooting and playnd all 40 min­utes. appeared to hrrow fittigund as the game wont on and got more physical. 
Dully's shooting troubles also extended to the free-throw line. where she shot just 6-9, well bPlow hor season average of 91 porcnnt. 
"I thought that I should have given Megan a rest during tho gam<l," MeGraw said. "She was just dnli~ndnd so wnll. and they played her so hard." 
In light of the delimsive ell'ort against Duffy, guard Brnona Gray steppnd up hnr gamn, seoring 12 points behind 5-of-6 lield goal shooting, making her one of fi1ur Irish players to seon1 in doubln fig­urns. 
"I thought Brnona had just. a great game," McGraw said. "I thought she looked to att.aek tlw basket oUlmsivnly." 
Alter a Gray 3-pointnr cut tho Irish dnfidt to two with 11:35 to play. Connoeticut again did mon1 tlm11 rnspond. going on a 15-5 run over the nnxt 5:23 tlmt was high­lighted by two Strothnr tlmles that served as daggers to Notrn Damn's chanens and gave tho lluskies a 62-51 load with 6:12 to play. 
"She'll make shot<> at tlmsn key juncturns in tho gamn that will end up turning the game," Connoc:tieut head coach (ieno Aurinmma said of Strother, who linislwd with a garno-high 19 poinl'i. 
Mdiraw also pointed out tlw importance of that stretch in tlw game. 
"I lillt at that point wn kind of lost our monwntum, and I didn't think wn had tlw oflimsive fin~­power to get bark into thn gamn," shn said. 
After thn gamn. MeGraw W<L'> blunt about tlw shortcomings tlmt eontributed to Notrn Dame's 15­point loss. 
"We shoot oursnlvns in tlw !bot," slw said. "I don't think tlwrn's a lot ofltlanls in thn eonlimmen that wn c.an bnat shooting 14-2:1 from tl1n linn and gntting outrnboundnd." 
Lindsay Sehradnr also con­tributnd 12 points. and Charnl Allnn addnd a eoupln of lnannrs and a thmn-poinltlr in thn sneond half to finish with a dozen as well. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

Great Job Opportunities!! 
ELe.xible tl!!w:§. &~~T EAYII We offer 1 0-40+ hours/week 
Route Delivery 
$9.00 -$12.00/ Hour 
574-234-5309 
Located, Just Minutes from Campus 
We Also Have Facilities in Other Cities, Call Us! 
8<11:ng"""'k 1.SC~0-0152 Nor1h Wel!s1or 1~O.t22.051Ja Ft Wll)mo 1·&CO·G22·G556 Mortan 1~o-e42-&9~ Bon:on Harbor 1-Ut-l!i7-4423 llou" iand J.a:0-457-1-423 Ct"""' Polnl1.SC0-4!i7-4~23 Springfiold 1·SCO~~.aD~ 
No Experlanoe Necsssary. Tt:J111111 0110 !ils!4.l' dwitJII ~hoclllld ""'kin l'!lflll!$/I tit.Jdng ISIJI1ImtN b,.<Jic. W.. o!IH .!IP.:!•!IuJt l'lrnlbillr Sllllt lnlinlnQ f:I0!Y. 
Schedule an Interview A.S.A.P. Bring a Friend I 
www.homecitvice.com 
-
-----------------. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 20, 2006 
ley), Tim Handolph (1 00 nine. did this as a team," Brown Notre Dame history to earn the breaststroke) and Jamie The conference title is head said. "It wasn't so much one award.
Repeat 

Lutkus (400 individual medley) coach Tim Welsh's 18th since individual, but it was the group The season isn't necessarily continued from page 20 set new records. Vanden Berg coming to Notre Dame in 1985, collectivey that really stepped over for nine swimmers in also broke the old 500 freestyle and his second up, not only seven different events who "Halfway through the meet we record and beat the 1,000 in the Big East. this past week­qualified for NCAA "B" cuts.
"It wasn't so much one
realized that we pretty much freestyle mark during his 1,650 All year, Welsh end but The list includes Jace Hopper had the meet in hand, and in freestyle race. has talked individual, but it was throughout the (1 ,650 freestyle), Kegelamn order to keep the intensity "I was thrilled to win last about his the group collectively season. (100 !'ly), Lutkus (200 individ­going, we challenged ourselves year, and at that point I said to team's depth, "And I really ual medley and 400 individual
that really stepped up,
by looking at the timing board myself, 'Maybe this is some­and that aspect think the team medley), Tim Handolph (1 00 to get personal bests, and with thing I can do four years in a came into play not only this past aspect really breast), Vanden Berg (1 ,650 that goal in mind we wm:e able row, just to see if I can do that,' again last weekend ... but describes us freestyle and 500 freestyle) to continue the intensity and it's a big encouragement to weekend as the best, because and Brian Freeman, Ted 
Irish dominated throughout the season." 
throughout the weekend," win it the second year because when we've Brown, Rob Seery and Louis Brown said. I'm halfway there," Vanden the competition had our most Cavadini in the 800 freestyle 
Not content with defeating 10 Berg said. despite placing Ted Brown success, we've relay. Making "B" cut means conference opponents, the A total of 20 All-Big East first in only Irish swimmer done it as a the swimmer is eligible for squad set 20 season best times, honors were given to the Irish, four events. team." consideration to compete at the including seven Notre Dame with Doug Bauman and "Coming into Diving coach NCAA Championships March records. Vanden Berg each netting the season, one of our team Caiming Xie was named Men's 23 in Atlanta, depending if 
Vanden Berg broke the three. Bauman's trio gave him goals was to repeat as Big East Diving Coach of the Year, as there are any spots left. school record in the 1,650 eight for his career, while jun­champions and finally standing two of his divers -Michael Welsh could not be reached yard-freestyle with a time of ior Tim Kegelman's award in on the podium Saturday night Bulfin and Sam Stoner -for comment Sunday. 
15:15.99. Brian Freeman set the 200 medley moves him into as champions there was a feel­grabbed all-Big East Honors. the new 800 freestyle mark, a tie for the school career­ing among us all of great Bulfin and Stoner are only the Contact Jack Thornton at while Doug Bauman (200 med-record with Hay Fitzpatrick at accomplishment, because we second and third divers in jthornt4@nd.edu 
ter,'' junior Katie Carroll said. Carroll was one of several formance, the Irish are now this weekend anytime soon. "We knew that the team that Irish swimmers who elevated able to look toward taking the "Of the three Big East titles
Ten 

wanted it more her perform­next step, the that I've been a continued from page 20 was going to ance this week­NCAA champi-part of since win." 'Tve never felt this end. onships beginning I've been here, remaining. Carroll led the Junior March 16 in "Our highest goal this one defi­
proud to be part ofa

The Irish ended the suspense Irish as she fin­Rebecca Grove Athens, Ga. has been scoring as nitely meant 
team that came

as Julia Quinn and Jessica ished the week­and freshman "Our highest the most and
many points as we
Stephens finished 1-2 in the end with seven together to pull off Christa Riggins goal has been will probably 200-meter breaststroke, and all-Big East each garnered scoring as many can at the NCAAs. " be the most
something so

Katie Carroll finished second in honors, giving five all-Big points as we can important of
important."

the 200-meter butterf1y. her 21 for her East honors, at the NCAAs," my four years,''
Carrie Nixon 
Those timely performances career. That and junior Nixon said after Carroll said.
Irish coach 
secured the win for Notre total places her Katie Carroll Quinn finished the Shamrock "I've never felt Dame, as it held off Hutgers by in third place on with four. Invitational on this proud to be
Irish swimmer 

a final score of 707.5-687.5. Notre Dame's As a team, Jan. 28. "That's a part of a team 
"[Irish] coach [Carrie] Nixon all-time list for Notre Dame been our focus all year." that came together to pull off told us that it was all going to conference awards. Carroll had 12 swimmers and divers Although the team will now something so important." come down to numbers and also obtained an NCAA 'A' cut walk away with at least one turn its sights toward compet­that every little point from time of 4:14.37 in the 400 indi­all-Big East finish. ing on a grander stage, it will Contact Greg Arbogast at there on out was going to mat-vidual medley. With such a strong team per-not forget its accomplishment garbogas@nd.edu 

SAINT MARY'S STUDY ABROAD INFO SESSION 
TUESD1\Y FEBRlJ;\R\' 21, 2006 500 pn1 DEBi\RT(lL() Hi\LL NOl~RF: ll.t\lVlE Ci\IVIPUS 
SMC, ND, & HC STUDENTS ARE WELCOME!! 
De Barto lo Rm. # 231 240 143 223 149 241 

Saint Mary's Students on the Seville Program (Spring '05) 
Accepting Applications for Summer '06 deadline March 21, 2006. APPLY ON-LINE@ wmv.saintmarys.edu/-cwil 
Ifyou are unable to attend an information session please contact the Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership at SMC cwil@saintmarys.edu 


Monday, February 20,.2006  The Observer+ TODAY  page 19  --.  
JOCKULAR  ERIK POWERS & ALEC WHITE  JUMBLE  HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION  



CROISSANTWORLD 
JJ~~IE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
KNEAT 
1 
rJ () 
02006 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rigtlls Reserved. 
NYLOP 
j
I I r [)
tPLALAP 

IJ I 
www.Jumble.com
tOPEATT j 


WHAT HE: C.ONSIOEREO THE NURSERY. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above car· 
CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  38 Holder of  67 "What is to be  
1 Freighter or  funerary ashes  done?!"  
whaler  39 What the ends  68 Kind of tea  
5 Read cursorily 9 Chick's cries 14 Window section  of 21-and 57-Across and 3-and 30-Down all name  69 " With Love" (1967 hit) 70 Wild hog  
15 Prefix with sphere 16 Uncredited actor 17 Rocketeer  42 Leading pitcher 43 Close by, in poetry 45 Words of  71 Units of resistance DOWN  
19 Writer Joyce Carol 20 Cheerleader's cheer 21 Novelty dance spawned by a 1962 #1 hit 23 CD player 25 Freudian 26 Reach by foot 29 Certain fir  enlightenment 46 Goose egg 48 Less difficult 50 Have high hopes 52 Nickname for Dallas 54 Fiats 57 Party bowlfu~ 62"_1a Ia!"  1 Poles on a 1-Across 2 Attacks 3 Waiting just out of sight 4 The "p" of m.p.h. 5 Dope 6 New Jersey's _ University 7 Don of talk radio  
33 "I love," in France 35 "_ perpetua" (Idaho's motto) 37 Raison d'  63 Lenin's middle name 64 Big business­related 66 Small recess  8 Hands, in slang 9 Central Illinois city 10 Case in point 11 Blues singer  
James  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
12 F. D. A. or J.F.K. 13 Window frame 18 Dish often 
served with home fries 22 Rudely poke 1!!11-:=+-:::+=-! 24 St. Louis gridder 27" of the ":+.':+.::+.::--..,...=+::::+:'-! D'Urbervilles" 28 Actor Milo 30 Old West transport 

1-:::11-;:-17.-t-;:;to-t~:;:-W..t-::~-:t::,-t--;-+:;:-t;:-t;:;-t 31 St. Louis landmark 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WlLLSHORT'Z 

32 Get together  44 Small patio grill  57 Blood donation,  
33 Beaver's mom on "Leave It to Beaver"  47 Mentalist Geller 49 A choice word  maybe 58 Mishmash 59 Tiny spasms  
34 Opera highlight 36 "Little piggies" 40 Sign of late summer  51 Jalapeno, to name one 53 1983 Mr. T flick 55 Pole carving  60 Popular cream-filled cake 61 "My Friend _" of old radio!TV 65 Brazilian  
41 Declared  56 Outbuildings  getaway  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make cheeks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic y(~ar D Enelosed is $55 for one semester Name---------------------­
Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBIUTIES BORN ON THIS ()A\': Justine Bateman. 40; Seal. 4:1; Jeff 
Daniels, 51; Smokey Rohinson, 66 

lla!JPY Birthday: Open up to what's going on a,round you. Profits arc within your rca~h but you arc likely to squander them on things and pcuph: that arc not your responsibility. This is not the year to he giving handnuts. It is the time to gather what you have and fows on luming a little into a lnL Your numh<·r~ arc 2. 15, 26. 
33,47,4<) 

ARIES !March 21-Aprill9): Don't let your loved ones cost you m•mey. OtTer sympathy, compassion or advkc hut not ca,h. An investment you have will star! to pay off. You will come into profits, winning> or a gift ••• TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Parlncrships arc looking positive and favors will be granted. You will discover that someone who has a similar interest may want to get involved with you on a new project. Put everything in writing. •u GEMINI (May 21-.June 2()): Be sympatheti~ with others and you will get the same in rctum today. Express yourself creatively and ignore anyone who ~riticilcs what you arc doing. Find out more about a new joh opportunity hefmc you ~~~~ept. ••• CANCER (.June'21-.luly 22): Let the good timl'S roll--you will atlract altention, romance and lots of new friends if you get out and have some fun. Be a partidpant today. You'll experience what it is like to make a diiTcrcn<·c. *"*** LI<:O (.July 23-Aug. 22): Take a look at n:al estate or put some work into your home. The more you do to enhance your portfolio or your surrounding8, the hctlcr off you'll he. Don't limit yourself because you arc uncertain about someone or something. • • VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): You may feel a little on edge hut don't let that stop you from following through with your plans. Dealing with the dynami~s of a relationship may he unnerving but you have nothing tn worry about. Ynu will altmcl the right kind of attention. •••• LinRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 221: You can accomplish alnt if you trcattoduy as a work day. Get down to business on projecL~ that have the potential to make you some extra cash. You will be open-minded and can lcam from people with more expcri<·nce. 
*** 

SCORI'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Do whatever it takes tn enhance your outlook and your looks. You can make some interesting changes that will altract someone who interests you. A creative project you have hecn thinking about can he launched. **'" SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Refuse in let anything or anyone get to you. You aren't likely to see things dearly and could l'nd up in an argument. You have to be diplomatic if you want to get through today unscathed. ••• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.fan. 19): Get together with friends. A ncighhnr will help you out with something he or she has more experience with. Consider getting involved in an organization that will bring you in contact with new people. •••• AQUARIUS (,Jan. 20-I<'eb. 18): You will have to he on your hest behavior if you want to impress someone or even prove yourself today. Not very many people will give you the bene tit of a doubt. Extra efli>rt will be required --consider how you can improve your status. ** I'ISCES (l<'eb. 19-M arch 20): It's lime to make a change in your life. Nothing is out of reach if you arc open to others' suggestions. Communication will lead to a new day and a good deaL A decision you make will brighten your day ..... 
Birthday Baby: You arc smart, industrious and very determined tn have things your own way. You tell it like it is. You arc intense, passionate and know how to charm your way into anyone's hcw·t. 
Eugenia's "-f-h sites: astmad\•ice.com .fC>r.fi.uJ, eugeniolast.com for <'Onji,h•ntittl c·cm.wlwthm.'i 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
-
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, February 20, 2006 
page 20 
NO SWIMMING 

Drowning the competition 
Men win back-to-back Big East crowns, women take record tenth straight 
By JACK THORNTON Sports Writer 
The Irish blew the competi­tion out of the water this weekend in East Meadow, N.Y., as the men's team captured its second consecutive Big East Championship. 
The Irish won by 224.5 points (809-584.5) over second place Pittsburgh, a smaller margin of victory than last year's surprising 275-point spread. Nonetheless, the Irish left no doubt about it in domi­nating the other 10 Big East opponents. 
"We won by a lot last year and that surprised a lot of peo­ple, but we're better this year," sophomore Jay Vanden Berg said. "The training is better, the attitude is better and the confidence was better, because we were returning champions, and I had a feeling that we were going to kind of run away with it." 
The squad jumped out to a 12-point lead after the first day, stretching that into a 77­point lead after day two and producing a comfortable 127.5-point margin heading into the final day. Despite the lead, junior Ted Brown wasn't about to coast to the podium. 
see REPEAT/page 18 


By GREG ARBOGAST 

Sports Writer 
Although it had to hold off a determined Rutgers team, Notre Dame returned to South Bend victorious this weekend after capturing its 1Oth straight Big East title Saturday night in East Meadow, N.Y. 
Notre Dame's victory gives it a place in history, as the Irish have tied the record for the most consecutive Big East titles in any sport. 
The Irish women now share that honor with the Pittsburgh men's swimming and diving team, which won every year from 1983-92. 
The Irish and Scarlet Knights went back and forth over the course of the four-day meet. 
Rutgers led for the first two days, as the Irish trailed by 12 points at the end of day one and only six points at the end of day two. 
Notre Dame surged ahead on day three, but it held only a slim five-point edge heading into the final session Saturday night. 
That tight margin was erased as Rutgers came back to tie the meet -both teams having accumulated 587.5 points with only three events 
see TEN/page 18 
TRACK AND fiELD 
Women take Big East title 
Men finish in top three for t~e 11th consecutive season 
By JASON GALVAN Sports Writer 
The Irish track and field team came up big in Akron, Ohio this weekend, with the women's team taking home the Big East Conference Indoor Championship and the men finishing third for their 11th straight finish among the top three at this meet. 
The women ended their dramatic Sunday run with 
109.5 points, surging past second-place Georgetown 
(86) and erasing a late 18­point deficit. 
"Everyone did a great job," senior distance runner Stephanie Madia said. "It just shows our ability to work together as a team." 
Though the Irish finished with only one individual win on the day -junior Maryann Erigha's 200­meter dash victory (23.96) 
see CHAMPS/page 16 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Huskies take bite out of Irish, win big 79-64 
the rest of game. 
Four ND players score 
The No. 6 Connecticut Huskies, double digits in loss however, had other plans. On their next possession,
to No. 6 Connecticut Connecticut guard Renee Montgomery drained an open 3­pointer, giving the Huskies their
By ERIC RETTER fourth lead of the half -a lead 
Sports Writer 
they would protect for the rest of the game as they went on to a 79­
As Notre Dame forward Crystal 64 win over the Irish. Erwin's jumper "I thought Montgomery was fell through to See Also maybe the difference in the game," give the Irish a Notre Dame head coach Muffet
"loss to UConn
42-41 lead · McGraw said. "She shot it well. We with just over knocks the wind were trying to guard her, but she 14 minutes to out of struggling made a lot of nice plays in transi­
.
play Sunday, tion. " 
Irish"
the team Both teams began play matching looked poised page 12 each other shot-for-shot, racing out to at least con­tinue its back-and-forth battle for see HUSKIES/page 17 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

New look sparks victory 
Irish throttle rival Pirates on the road in uncommon attire 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 

Seton Hall fought the inevitable Saturday at Continental Airlines Arena, but a new-look Notre Dame team (13-10, 4-8 Big East) would not relinquish the lead on its way to a third consecu­tive win. 
Motivated by their new black jerseys or their desper­ate need for conference wins -or both -the Irish scored their highest single-game 
see PIRATES/page 17 

~ 
-

HOCKEY 
ME~'S TE~~IS
SMC BASKETBAll 

NO WOME~'S TEN~~S 
WOMEN'S GOlF

NO SOfTBALl 
LLI 

"" 
The Irish kick off their 
Notre Dame 1 
Hope 91 
Notre Dame 5 

Notre Dame 5 
CS Fullerton 9 
spring season by travel-
z Bowling Green 1 
Samt Mary's 66 
Michigan 3 

Harvard 2 
Notre Dame 3 
ing to Florida to com­
::5 
pete in the Central
The Irish and Falcons 
Allison Kessler paced 
The Irish rode a trio of 

The No. 15 Irish upset 
The Titans jumped
c:J 
District Classic today
skated to a tie Saturday 
the Belles with 20 points, 
three-set victories to 

the No. 9 Crimson 
out to a 3-0 first inning
Cl: 
and tomorrow. 
after Notre Dame won 
but the No. 7 Flying 
win their fifth consecu-

Sunday at the Eck 
lead and never looked
a. Friday night, 7-4. 
Dutch were too much. 
tive match Saturday. 

Tennis Pavilion. 
back. 
VJ = page 15 
page 15 
page 14 
page 14 

page 12 
page 12 







