
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 43 TUESDAY. OCTOBER 31.2006 

LGBTQ Week promotes inclusion, history 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
Monday marked the beginning of the first ever Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Questioning (LGBTQ) History Week at Notre Dame, a localized approach to the nationwide LGBTQ History Month that cam­pus groups describe as an effort to increase awareness and his­torical appreciation. 
The LGBTQ History Week ­co-sponsored by the Gender Relations Center (GRC), Core Council, the Gender Studies Department and the History Department -will host a variety of events to further educate the Notre Dame community about LGBTQ achievements, said senior and event coordinator Casey Scott. 
While Scott said she believes an understanding of LGBTQ his­tory is important across society, she sees an "especially impor­tant" role for promoting aware­ness at Notre Dame. 
"I think it's very obvious to any­one who goes here that homo­sexuality is an issue on campus," Scott said. 
The week kicked off Monday night with a prayer vigil "honor­ing all of the deceased members of the LGBTQ community" as part of the communion of saints, Scott said. 
Dillon rector Father Paul Doyle presided over the vigil, which was held in the Log Chapel, Scott said. 
"In this way, we honor not only those who came before, but we also look forward to that day when all shall be included, rejoic­ing before Christ's throne," Scott said. 
Today begins the LGBTQ Week's ally pledge that will run through Thursday. 
Those who make the pledge will be "pledging their commit­ment to live in the spirit of inclu­sion," Scott said, including "standing up against discrimina­tory language and behavior against [the LGBTQ community]." 
Members of the Core Council 
see LGBTQ/page 6 

Gipp, ghosts haunt campus lore 
Washington Hall is notorious for phantom sightings 
ByJOE PIARULLI 
Assistant News Editor 
There it sits, in the middle of campus. It looks innocent, quiet. But they say terrible things hap­pened there. They say if you stay there long enough, you might start hearing things ... seeing things. Officially, it closes after 11 p.m. After all, would you want to be in there at midnight? 
Every town has its haunted house. Notre Dame has Washington Hall. 
Dedicated in 1882, Washington Hall was Notre Dame's main performing arts center from its dedication until the completion of the DeBartolo 
see GHOST/page 6 


JESSICA LEE/The Observer Washington Hall, rumored home of "The Gipper's" ghost, looms over God Quad. 
Exorcism practiced by Catholic priests, popularized in film 
BySONIARAO 
News Writer 
Mention the word "exorcism" and, immediately, gruesome scenes from "The Exorcist" come to mind. Media influence has framed the practice with vulgar imagery, using the char­acteristics of demonic posses­sion as fodder for horror films. 
But exorcism is a practice rec­ognized in a wide spread of reli­gions, including Catholicism, although priests say the exact number of exorcisms performed is unknown. 
"[Exorcism] is something that's obviously not discussed in wide circles within the life of the 
see EXORCISM/page 3 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Concert sells out in hours 
Ben Folds' Nov. 10 show appeals to fans 
By BRIDGET KEATING 
News Writer 

Only the luckiest students landed Ben Folds tickets last Thursday for the sold-out Nov. 10 show at the Stepan Center. 
Student Union Board (SUB) reported the 1,800 tickets sold out in eight and a half hours. 
More than 300 Ben Folds faithful arrived as early as 5 
a.m. Thursday morning ­four hours before the 9 a.m. box office opening. 
To handle the volume of traffic, SUB successfully snaked the patient students throughout LaFortune, wind­ing the line up and down stairwells and through the second floor. 
Concert programmer Chris Lund said half of the tickets were sold in the first 90 min­utes. 
"We knew Ben Folds was extremely popular at Notre Dame and we were confident we would sell out before Nov. 10," Lund said, "but there is no way we predicted the posi­tive response we got with the immediate sell-out." 
The sky-high demand had 
see FOLDS/page 6 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 


Committees cover duLac, applications 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Midterms and fall break prevented the Campus Life Council's (CLC) task forces from making significant progress since their last meeting Oct. 9, committee chairs told the group Monday. 
Without any new business to report, CLC task force chairs described their com­mittees' ongoing work. 
Chief executive assistant and Student Voice and Input task force chair Liz Brown said she met with Student Activities Office director Brian Coughlin last week to discuss ways to streamline the application process for students who want to serve on University committees. Coughlin and Brown decided they could use either the Student Activities Office Web site, SAOnline, or insideND to run the program. 
Brown said her committee may work with the Office of Residence Life and Housing to develop a summarized version of duLac for stu­dents -tentatively titled "duLac fpr Dummies." 
"[Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs G. David) Moss just e-mailed me before the meeting to let me know that [Associate Vice President for Student 
see CLC/page 6 

ND, SMC offer flu shots 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 

As winter approaches, so does the onset of flu season -some­thing Notre Dame Health Services and Saint Mary's Health and Wellness Services are pre­pared to combat this year. 
The College and University will distribute vaccinations -Saint Mary's this week, Notre Dame next week -in hopes of protect­ing students from both common flu and potential pandemics. 
"Pandemics go in cycles," Assistant Director of Notre Dame Health Services Patricia Brubaker said. "[Health officials] know that the cycle is due." 
Keeping this threat in mind, Saint Mary's President Carol Ann Mooney said in her Aug. 16 College Forum address she has prepared for the "heightened concerned about the possibility of an avian flu pandemic" 
see FLUIpage 6 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, October 31, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Candy 
•

cravings 
Leaves crunch underfoot, ghouls and goblins run amuck in neighborhoods, jack o' lanterns glow from front porch­es and mom's chicken noodle soup simmers on the stove. There's only 
one time of year  
that all of these things come  Liz Harter  
together, and  
today is that day -it's Halloween.  News Wzre  
There are two  Edt or  
questions that you  
have to ask your­ 

self on Halloween. First, what are you going to dress up as? And the second, which is more important, are you too old to trick-or-treat? 
Now, I'm going to assume that since you are reading this you are at least college-age or older, and it's a little weird to see adults trick-or-treating unless they are standing behind a little princess or a scary monster who is knocking on doors. So unless you have found yourself a small child that you have bribed into splitting half of their candy with you in exchange for taking them trick-or-treating you're going to have to satisfy your sweet tooth by providing your own candy. 
With all the different kinds of sweets being sold (half price or less tomor­row) I'm here to provide you with a lit­tle guide so you can get exactly the right candy to fulfill your cravings: 
+Candy corn-The ever-present Halloween garnish. This tri-colored candy is perfect if you want something sweet but not fruity or chocolatey. They're also a low budget addition to any vampire costume ... and you can eat your fangs at the end of the night. 
+Twix-This is the perfect candy if you're looking for something crunchy, caramelly and chocolatey. The bite­sized version sold in 20 count bags are best when stored in a refrigerator because the caramel hardens which provides a contrast to the crunchy cookie (the same goes for Rolos as well). 
+LatTy Taffy-Each flavor (banana, strawberry, grape, apple and blue raspberry) of these sugar-filled candies packs their own punch. This is the best candy to quell both a craving for something gummy and fruity. 
+Halloween peeps-If you're look­ing for something with sweet, but don't necessarily want a candy bar you can always get some Peeps. Branching out from the usual Easter bunnies and chickens, the Just Born candies now come in Halloween, Valentine's Day and Christmas shapes. Grab yourself some pumpkins, cats or ghosts and savor the sugary goodness that you can only find four times a year. 
I hope you find that perfect candy to enjoy tonight, and watch a little TV or listen to some Halloween-themed music if you get a chance. You might come across "It's the Great Pumpkin Charlie Brown"-always a classic­or be scared by Vincent Price's voice, coming through strong in Michael Jackson's "Thriller." 
Contact Liz Harter at lharteO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reporting error, rhe arricle enrided "Business school earns rop-30 national ranking" in rhe Ocr. 30 edirion ofThe Observer incorrectly idenrified rhe pasr Business Week rankings of rhe Mendoza College of Business. The publication ranked rhe college 29rh in 2002 and 24rh in 2004. The Observer regrers rhe error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR HALLOWEEN COSTUME? 


Blair Brenton 
sophomore Keenan 
,,
"Ron Jeremy. 
Batman helps Ga. town Infested with bats 
AMERICUS, Ga. -So many bats have infested this town's historic district that the sky turns black with each sunset and the neigh­borhood is calling on Batman to come to the res­cue. 
That's what the local bat remover goes by. George Perkins often makes public appearances in the caped crusader's costume and drives his own Batmobile ­a retro-styled Chrysler Prowler with bat emblems. Callers to his office in Eufaula, Ala., known as Bat Cave 1, or Union Springs, 


Vendetta.'" one. 
Ala., known as Bat Cave 2, hear the "Batman" TV show theme while on hold. 
Witch ordered to. refund love spell fee 
MUNICII, Germany -A German court has ordered a self-proclaimed witch to refund a disappointed dient her hefty fee for a spell that failed to win back the woman's partner. 
The Munich administrative court said Monday it ruled that the witch must pay back the $1,275 on the grounds she offered a service that was "objectively completely impossible." 
After her boyfriend left her 

girlfriend as the upper and lower GI." 
IN BRIEF 

The Notre Dame women's basketball team will take on Lake Superior State in an exhibition game at 7 p.m. today at the Joyce Center Arena. 
The Royal Drummers of Burundi will perform at 7:30 
p.m. Wednesday in the Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $30 for faculty, staff and seniors and $15 for students. 
The Notre Dame men's basketball team will take on Hockhurst at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday in the Joyce Center Arena. 
Margaret Farley, the Gilbert L. Stark Professor of Christian Ethics at Yale University, will speak on "Gender, Faith and Responses to HIVI AIDS in Africa" at 4:30 p.m. Wednesday in the Courtroom of the Law School. 
Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, will speak on "Immigration and the Midterm Elections" at 
5:30 p.m. Thursday in the Annenburg Auditol'ium of Snite Museum of Art. 
Tera Hunter of Carnegie Mellon University will speak on "Until Death or Distance Do You Part: Marriage and Slavery in the Nineteenth Century" at 11 a.m. Friday in rooms 210-214 Mt~Kenna Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

:(f 
HIGH 38 HIGH 50 LOW 27 LOW 30 

Will Merwin freshman Keough  Claire Mysliwiec freshman Howard  Claire Welteroth freshman Cavanaugh  Tim Cummings sophomore Keenan  
"Vfrom 'Vfor  "/ don't have  "Toga.''  "/went with my  


in 2003, the client consulted the witch on a spell that would bring him back. 
"The defendant carried out the corresponding ritual over several months, each time under a full moon, but with­out success," a court state­ment said. 
It said the witch denied the client's claim that she had guaranteed success. 
However, the court ruled that was irrelevant because "a love ritual is not suited to intluencing a person from a distance." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a: 
w 
:c 
ti 


J)
3: w 

:(f
..... 
c:C 
(.) 

0 

HIGH 50 HIGH 47 ·HIGH 48 HIGH 37
...I 

LOW 48 LOW 45 LOW 27 LOW 27 
Atlanta 71 157 Boston 64 I 49 Chicago 53 I 32 Denver 41 I 22 Houston 82 I 62 Los Angeles 65 I 55 Minneapolis 41 I 23 New York 65 153 Philadelphia 69 I 51 Phoenix 81 I 56 Seattle 49 I 33 St. Louis 55 I 36 Tampa 85 I 68 Washington 73 I 48 
Tuesday, October 31, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Event deemed a success 
Dads' Weekend raises funds for class, comissioner reports postponed 
By LIZ HARTER 
News Writer 
In lieu of commissioner reports, a "Senior Dad's Weekend" recap by Class of 2007 president Kat Kindt high­lighted Monday's Board of Governance (BOG) meeting. 
Kindt did not know the final count of fathers who attended, but called the weekend "very successful." 
The front row seats at the 2007 graduation ceremony were auctioned off for $2,500 Friday night, she said. The money will benefit the senior class' fundraising efforts. 
Board members also partici­pated in the residence hall trick-or-treating event Sunday evening. 
There was a large turnout of ghouls and goblins accompa­nied by Saint Mary's faculty and staff in the halls, Residence Hall Association president Amy Dardinger said. 
"I can't believe the amount of people who showed up," she said. 
She also said she ran out of candy for the trick-or-treaters in LeMans Hall. 
Commissioner reports did not occur this week because the full board was not present at the meeting. Student body president Susan Mcllduff said the reports would be presented next week. 

In Other BOG News: 
+ 
This is Depression Awareness Week, sponsored by the sophomore board, Class of 2009 president Francesca Johnson said. Students can pick up a yellow ribbon to support the cause outside of the Dining Hall. 

+ 
The Saint Mary's second annual Battle of the Bands will take place Dec. 2 to benefit the 


Saint Mary's Dance Marathon and Riley Hospital for Children. 
+ The senior board will sponsor the 12 Days of Christmas event once again this December. The event raises money to provide Christmas gifts for area families. 
"We're going to be posting '12' signs soon to begin to raise awareness," Kindt said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Exorcisin 
continued from page 1 
Church, but it is a reality," Father Ronald Vierling said. 
He once shared a residence with James LeBar, the official exorcist for the Archdiocese of New York. While he said LeBar would perform exorcisms at a psychiatric institute in Hyde Park, Vierling said he has 
"never bad any 
''The ritual ofthe
experience [in the [exorcism] as a 
field] and [he] Church is based on real event." would dare say There are other
the power of Christ, 
most priests have tensions sur­
and the power of
not." rounding the 
The only train­Christ is always practice of exor­ing that priests effective.'' cism, including receive in the 
the idea that it 

realm of exorcism relies on super­are the signs of Ronald Vierling stitious principles diabolical posses­priest typically shunned 
The line betwe.en someone suffering from psychosis and someone possessed by a demon­ic spirit is sometimes unclear, said psychology professor Patrick Utz, making it difficult to say whether exorcism could really work. 
"I believe exorcism could be effective for people who believe in exorcism and find someone who shares that belief," Utz said. "However, in terms of sci­entific evidence, there is no well­known support of 
sion, which include the "abili­ty to speak with some facility in a strange language or to under­stand when [the language] is spoken by another, the faculty of divulging occult knowledge ... or to display powers which are beyond the subject's age," Vierling said. 
In 1999, the Vatican updated the rules of exorcism for the first time since 1614, placing a larger emphasis on consulting physicians first before determin­ing that a person's suffering is really due to demonic posses­sion. 
"The priest is not to make a rapid judgment on possession," Vierling said. "All medical and psychological possibilities must be exhausted before the Church would even begin to consider exorcism." 
from the Church. 

"I think exor­cism can be an example of how the Catholic Church has been misguided through history and that it kind of compares Christianity to superstitions that we apparently try to avoid," freshman Dan Savage said. 
But it's possible, Vierling said, that aspects of the two can coex­ist, especially with the notion of Christ himself carrying out exor­cisms as part of his performing of miracles. 
Vierling believes if a person is truly possessed, exorcism will be effective. 
"The ritual of the Church is based on the power of Christ, and the power of Christ is always effective," he said. 
Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 


PUBLIC LECTURE 
GENDER, FAITH, AND RESPONSES TO HIV/AIDS IN AFRICA 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2006 LAW SCHOOL COURTROOM 4:30PM 
Speaker: Margaret A. Farley, RSM Gilbert L. Stark Professor ofChristian Ethics, Yale University Author ofJust Love: A Framework for Christian Sexual Ethics 
For further information, contact: Professor M. Cathleen Kaveny (574)631-7844 M.Cathleen.Kaveny.l@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, Oct~ber 31, 2006 

S~-rn.-rn.er Associczt:e Posit:iorzs forJ~rziors 

TilE B<:>S'r<>N C..::<>NSl:..J.L'TINC;, c;..R<>l..JI'" is a le:<:.~clin.g l.T-:tarl.ageri-:teJ.--:tt. c<.:>:tlSLt.lt:irtg firrr1. V\le Ctl.r.rei.lt.ly ltave <..>ver f>1 <>fltces 1.r.1. ~~t> cot..t:r1tries a.:r-1<:1 <>·ver 2,900 c<>nstl.lt.ing sta.:fr-ar<:>t..t.n<:l t:l:ae "\NC>rld. 
B<:.:::<:.:;.'s clie:r--:1t:s are :rx--:t<:>stly large c<>rp<>ra.ti<:>t--:ts. V\Te w<>rk II1 teai'l--:ts of f<--:>t..l.r t:o six. J:>eor-::>le c>rl r-::>r~ject.s or "cases" f<-::>r ot..tr cliel:--:lt:s. Eacl"J. case is organ.iz<:~cl a.r<>ttrl<.:l s<:>J.·x-:te st.ra.t.egic or [>r<:>CeSS }:>"L;tsii-:teSS issu.e f'"cl.Ce<l l>y th.e c:..:Jie:n.t.. aJl<l lasts al><.:>ll.t. t.l1. ree t:o rti.1:1e J::a::a.<:>rl. t:l·1.s. 
BCG's Assc>ciat:.e SLtmmer Pr<.:>gra•·x--:1 seeks a ST'l."J.all, select. grot..tp of higl"J.ly t.a.ler1.t:.ecl college ju.n.iors wl'l.o clerTlOI'lst:.rat.e t:.he c:a.pacit:y t.c> cle·velor> t.he skills <>L a. I~c:c;. ass<>ciat.e. Surru1--:1er ass<:>cia.t.e car.·l.<li<lat.es s.h<>t.:tl<·l l1ave a ..n ir.lt.ellect:.u.a.l ct..:tri<>sit:y al::>ot.:tt: ccul.s"LJ.l tir1.g ax1 <:l l:>t..1si ness ir1 ger1eral. I'>tl.rirag tl-:ae st..l.J.T:a.­11-:ter J..:>rograJ:rl., tl-:te iJ.-. t.er11 wot..l.lcl l>e [.>art of-a l3C:c; C011Sl..l.lt.i.J.-.g t:.ea.T--:t--:1 wit:l--:t gt...l.ida.nce rr<:>111 a COJ.'IS\.llt:.ant:. sponS<:>r. The SLtrn.mer wot..J.lcl ir1cl·u.. de ex.r-::>erieJ'lces wit:.l"J. t.l--:teir client: case. ot:l-:ter su..r:n­rr."J.er i-r"J. t.erx--:ts, ft..:tll-t.iiT'l.e ass<:>ciat.es, a-r1cl at"J.y I3.C:~c;.. ever1.t:s. 01.:tr g<.>al is t:.<..> give <>t.:t:t· su.I:t·lrrler int:.eT.-I.l.s a.<lecru.a.t:e e.xr><>St:tre t.<:..> t:.l·.te associate J-><>sitic>n ancl the BC:<~;.. culture "\Nit.h t.lte hor.>es that St:.r<>n~g [..:>erf:c:>r1l"lir1g ira.terr1s W01...Il<.i }:.:>e ir1terestecl i11 ret:UT1l.irlg to nee:;. as an associate after gra<.:lt..t.at:iOl'l. 
S"UIVI:IVI:ER APPLICATI<::>N" DEADLIN"E: T-u.esda.y, N"ovember 7-.:h, 2006 
I.nt.<:".~rest.e·cl ca.n.<.licla.t.es, J:>lea.se ar>r>ly via 
GoiRISFI 
J>Iease see Goll.~S.I-1 for a detailed listing of" apr..:>lication. reqt..t.ireTT-:tei'l. ts. 
Q-u.est:io:n..s?: At-.I"le VVi lliarrlS<.-.:>r'l .Ass<.:>ciat::e l~ecrt..ti t::i r1 g C~<.:><~~>rcli:n. a t.<.:>r wi11iarr1s <:> r1 . a :r1 :r1 e@l.:>c g.c <.:>r:r1 
1=>(......... ( ......... 
. > ...A ... JIT 
""''\N"\N-l:·>cg.c c·>r1·1 
.. 



ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 31, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE ()BsERVER'S Wl RE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Brits warn about global warming 
LONDON -Unchecked global warming will devastate the world economy on the scale of the world wars and the Great Depression, a British government report said Monday, as the country launched a bid to convince doubters that environmentalism and economic growth can coincide. 
Britain hired former Vice President AI Gore, who has emerged as a powerful envi­ronmental spokesman since his defeat in the 2000 presidential election, to advise the gov­ernment on climate change -a clear indica­tion of Prime Minister Tony Blair's dissatis­faction with current U.S. policy. 
Blair, President Bush's top ally in the Iraq war, said unabated climate change would eventually cost the world between 5 percent and 20 percent of global gross domestic product each year. He called for "bold and decisive action" to cut carbon emissions and stem the worst of the temperature rise. 
Pilot ignored foul weather warnings 
ABUJA. Nigeria -The Nigerian pilot of a plane that crashed on takeoff, killing him and 95 other people, did not heed air traffic controllers' advice to not depart in stormy weather, the minister of aviation said Monday. 
Aviation Minister Babalola Borishade did not directly blame pilot error in Sunday's crash, the nation's third major jet accident in less than a year, but he said officials would try to curb pilots' power to ignore advice from the control tower. 
Borishade said all of private Nigerian air­line Aviation Development Co.'s planes had been grounded indefinitely and its flying license was suspended. 
Nine people survived the crash. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Deadly wildfire nearly controlled 
BEAUMONT, Calif. -The Santa Ana winds propelling a wildfire that killed four firefighters had all but disappeared Monday morning, leaving officials confi­dent that the blaze would be soon be fully corralled. 
"The weather has shifted in a very, very favorable way," Capt. Don Camp, a California Department of Forestry spokesman, said early Monday. "The winds are mostly gone and we're getting an onshore flow that's keeping the tempera­tures down." 
The blaze, which authorities believe was deliberately set, still threatened wilderness plagued by drought and filled with dead trees. But fire officials said they believed they could get the blaze under control by Monday evening if the winds stay away. 

U.S. newspaper circulation declines 
NEW YORK -Daily circulation fell 2.8 percent at U.S. newspapers in the six­month period ending in September, an industry group reported Monday, the lat­est sign of struggle as newspapers try to hold on to paying readers. 
Sunday circulation fell 3.4 percent in the same period, according to the Newspaper Association of America's cal­culations of data supplied by the Audit Bureau of Circulations. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Cyclist trial enters closing stages 
MARTINSVILLE, Ind. -Closing arguments were expected Monday in the trial of a man charged with killing an Indiana University student more than six years ago. 
Morgan Superior Court was packed with people interested in hearing prosecutors and defense attorneys spend 90 minutes each trying to convince six men and six women on the jury whether John Myers II is guilty or innocent of murder in the death of 19-year­old Jill Behrman. 
The defense concluded its case on Friday after calling two witnesses. 
PAKISTAN 



Al-Qaida school center leveled 
Pre-dawn raid kills 80 suspected militants; locals claim victims were civilians 
Associated Press 

CHINGAI -Pakistani troops backed by missile­firing helicopters on Monday struck a religious school purportedly being used as an al-Qaida train­ing center, killing 80 peo­ple in what appeared to be the country's deadliest­ever attack against sus­pected militants. 
The country's top Islamic political leader said .American planes were used in the pre­dawn strike against the school -known as a madrassa -and called for nationwide protests Tuesday, claiming all those killed were innocent students and teachers. Both Pakistani and the 
U.S. military officials denied any American involvement in the attack in northwestern Pakistan, less than two miles from the Afghan border. 
An al-Qaida-linked mili­tant who apparently was a primary target of the strike had left the building a half hour beforehand, a Pakistani official said. 
Anger over the missile strike scuppered the sign­ing of a peace accord, expected Monday, between tribal elders linked to militants. The United States has urged Pakistani President Gen. Pervez Musharraf to do more to stop militants from crossing from tribal regions into Afghanistan, where Taliban-fanned vio­lence has reached its deadliest proportions since the American-led invasion in 2001. 
Musharraf, along with Afghan President Hamid Karzai, met with President Bush last month in Washington to address the issue. 
Helicopter gunships fired four to five missiles into the madrassa in Chingai, said army spokesman Maj. Gen. Shaukat Sultan. The blasts tore apart the building and all inside, spraying body parts, blood and debris across a wide area. 

Sultan said initial esti­mates indicate the attack killed about 80 suspected militants from Pakistan and other countries. Only three people -all seri­ously wounded -were believed to have survived, a hospital official said. 
"These militants were involved in actions inside Pakistan and probably in Afghanistan," Sultan told The Associated Press. 
Sultan said the attack was launched after those in charge of the building refused warnings to close it down. 
Among those killed was Liaquat Hussain, a Pakistani cleric and asso­ciate of al-Qaida No. 2 Ayman al-Zawahri, locals and an intelligence official said. Another al-Zawahri deputy, Faqir Mohammed, was believed to have been in the madrassa and left 30 minutes before the strike, according to the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity as he was unauthorized to speak to the media. 

In Islamabad, Qazi Hussain Ahmed -an opposition political leader -blamed the U.S. for the attack and said claims that the madrassa was a terrorist training center were "rubbish." He claimed 30 children were killed; an Associated Press reporter at the scene said no accurate count -or even identifi­cation -of many of the dead was possible due to the mutilated state of the remains. 
"It was an American plane behind the attack and Pakistan is taking responsibility because they know there would be a civil war if the American responsibility was known," said Ahmed. 
In Afghanistan, U.S. mil­itary spokesman Maj. Matt Hackathorn denied the U.S. was involved in the strike. 
"It was completely done by the Pakistani military," he told the AP. 
IRAQ 


Bomb blast kills 33 in Sadr City 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD-A bomb tore through food stalls and kiosks in a sprawling Shiite slum Monday, killing at least 33 people, while the U.S. military announcPd the death of the 1OOth servicemember in Iraq this month. 
The 6:15 a.m. explosion in Sadr City targeted poor Shiites who gather there each morning hoping for jobs as construction workers. At least 59 people were wounded, said police Maj. Hashim al-Yasiri. 
Meanwhile, new details emerged about a U.S. soldier who disappeared last week, sparking a massive man­hunt. A woman claiming to be his mother-in-law said Monday that the soldier was married to a Baghdad college student and was with the young woman and her family when hooded gunmen handcuffed and threw him in the back seat of a white Mercedes. The marriage would vio­late military regulations. 
U.S. National Security Adviser Stephen Hadley made an unan­
nounced visit to Baghdad, where he met with his Iraqi counterpart, Mouwafak al-Rubaie, and Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki for talks on military and political coordination, the government said. 
A commission to coordinate U.S.­Iraqi relations, especially military activity, was established in a video conference Saturday between President Bush and al-Maliki, who has made critical statements about 
U.S. policy in the past week. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 31, 2006 
tations." 
though virtually no ghost sight­views regarding the ghost sto­Hall Presidents Council co­
ings since then have been out­ries, partially because of the
Ghost
CLC 
chair Katie Cordelli said she 
side the building. amount of ghost-related atten­cancelled the Student Safety 
continued from page 1 "Other people that have seen tion the hall has received from
continued from page 1 
Ad Hoc task force meeting last 
things, it's always been inside the media and even ghost Affairs] Bill Kirk and the Monday. After talking to 
Performing Arts Center two the building," Pilkinton said. hunters. Office of Residence Life and Observer staff members, she 
years ago. Strange stories surrounding In 2004, a television crew for Housing are interested in col­said she has decided that an 
The ghost stories began in the hall date back to even The Travel Channel came to laborating with us on this," effective way to inform stu­
1920, said Film, Television and before 1920. In 1886, a steeple­Notre Dame to film a segment Brown said. dents how to stay safe is to 
Theatre professor Mark jack fell through Washington on Washington Hall for a pro­Alumni Hall senator Danny send well-written Letters to 
Pilkinton, who worked in the Hall's ceiling and died, though gram titled "Haunted Smith said the Student the Editor addressing this 
hall from 1984 to 2004 and is Pilkinton said evidence for the Campuses," which aired in Concerns task force has been topic. 
currently putting the finishing story is lacking. October of that year. working to implement a plan 
touches on a book entitled "The The 1920-21 story, though Pilkinton said the building still to update all vending Notes: 
Story of Washington Hall: 1862-well doeumented, may very well has the power to scare people. machines so they take Domer + Student body president 
2004." Around Christmas of have had natural explanations. "I don't think I'd want to be Dollars. Smith said the com­Lizzi Shappell struck down a 
1920, people began to report Joseph Casasanta, who wrote doing much in there all by mittee is also exploring ways resolution that would point 
ghostly sounds in Washington the Alma Mater and went on to myself ... those old buildings to let students use Domer out problems with and recom­
Hall. become the director of the can be really spooky," he said. Dollars at various off-campus mend improvements to new 
At the time, eight students liv­Notre Dame Marching Band for "It has all the things that a locations. cable, wireless and cellular 
ing in the hall were startled by 20 years, lived in Washington spooky place needs." Student body vice president technology in residence halls. 
sounds of a French horn. They Hall that year, and may have Though Pilkinton said other Bill Andrichik said he can­This issue, Shappell said, 
couldn't find its source, and been the mysterious horn blow­buildings on campus can be celled the Conduct Awareness should be dealt with outside 
they couldn't logieally explain it. er. scary -and may even have a task force's meeting last week the CLC. 
A common misconception of "If it were a hoax then he cer­few horror stories of their own but said the committee will 
the hall's ghost stories, Pilkinton tainly might be involved, but we -there is only one building on continue to focus on problems Contact Kaidynn Riely at 
said, is that they originated with don't know," Pilkinton said. campus consistently recognized surrounding dorm "dis-orien-kriely@nd.edu 
Irish football legend George "People of faith who believe in for supernatural associations. Gipp. Actually, it took five years ghosts like to believe in them "Although there have been for anyone to make a connec­and they like to connect it to stories connected to other build­tion between the unsettling tales George Gipp." ings on campus ... peoplethat it is a great venue for a and Notre Dame's first football While the early stories are always say Washington Hall,
pianist-vocalist such as Ben 
All-American, who, coinciden­somewhat uncertain, the hall is although it may simply be the

Folds 
Folds." 
tally, died in December 1920 -not free from ghost tales. poster child," he said. "Who's to 
What most students will notcontinued from page 1 
just before the stories began. "That's 86 years that there's say what's there and what's 
see is the hard work behind 
"The Gipper" did not live in been talk of this going on," not?" students wondering why the the scenes. 
Washington Ilall, but he would Pilkinton said. "As a building, Christopher Sieving, a profes­event was not held in a larger "We are grateful to concert 
supposedly sneak into the build­!Washington llalll has a pretty sor in the Film, Television and 
campus venue, such as the programmers Chris Lund and 
ing when he missed curfew at long and continuing tradition Theatre Department who teach­Joyce Center. Matt Larew who have worked his dormitory. that hasn't really gone away. es a class on horror films, said 
Budgetary constraints, Lund incredibly hard to make this 
The legend says Gipp fell "It's been layered. Over the the Washington Hall stories do said, prevent SUB from being show happen," said SUB man­
asleep outside Washington !!all years there are additional sto­not seem to qualify as horrific. 
able to cover the significant ager Patrick Vassel, who also 
and contracted the pneumonia ries, additional layers, permuta­Sieving referred to the story of cost increase of relocating the thanked the staff of 
that led to his death. tions and combinations." Charles Whitman as a true hor­concert relocation to the LaFortune Box Office for 
During the 1925-26 aeademic Other stories include groups ror tale. In 1966, Whitman Joyce Center. keeping the ticket line moving 
year, Pio Montenegro, a student of students sleeping in climbed the 27 -story tower at With Stepan as the best pos­last Thursday. 
from Brazil, was the first person Washington Ilall -some of the University of Texas, then sible option, SUB has worked Approximately 80 SUB 
to ever announce seeing a ghost whom had very strange experi­shot and killed 15 people and 
with Notre Dame members will join the crew at 
at Washington Hall. Pilkinton ences. wounded 31 others. 
Security/Police and Risk Stepan on Nov. 10 to unload 
said Montenegro lived in the Aceording to the hall's Web "There are certainly ghost
Management to increase trucks, set up equipment, pre­
Science Ilall, now the LaFortune site, a group of students snuck stories that have a real eerie capacity from 1,500 to 1,800, pare the artists' green room 
Student Center, and claimed to in with a Ouija board to try to component to them or involve Lund said. The success of last and assist the professional 
see something odd on the hall's contad Gipp. The board spelled some sort of violent death," year's Stepan concerts, technical staff. 
south steps -which had been out "S ... G" then slide to Sieving said. "There's not a real including Better Than Ezra "SUB has made significant 
outside the building going up to "Goodbye." They tried again strong sort of horror component
and Pat Green, has SUB mem­efforts to bring an artist of 
the second floor. and had the same result: "S ... [with Washington Hall]." bers hopeful for another great this caliber to Notre Dame 
Montenegro said he saw the G" then "Goodbye." The stu­Tonight at 8 p.m. them will be 
turnout. and this is another big step 
ghost of George Gipp on a white dents then exited the hall, but a screening of "The Ring" in 
Lund credits The Leftover forward," Vassel said. "We 
horse galloping up the stairs they were not alone. Bursting Washington Hall. Screams Production Co. for "maximiz­are very excited to offer stu­
and through the entrance. The through the door of Washington heard in the hall will be from ing the acoustics and making dents low cost tickets at $15 story of Gipp haunting the hall Hall eame a security guard (SG) the movie. After all, it's just an 
sure the music sounds as and [are] happy with the posi­
has stuck ever sinee. who had just finished an inspec­old, innocent building, right? great live as it does on a CD." tive response." 
Montenegro was a popular tion. "This group produced a past 
student, Pilkinton said, and his Washington Hall employees Contact Joe Piarulli Billy Joel concert at Stepan Contact Bridget Keating 
story would have had credibility, were reluctant to grant inter-at jpiarull@nd.edu Center," he said, "and reports at bkeating@nd.edu 
Representatives from both Center through Nov. 3.
will take place Thursday from 7 sehools said the plans are a nec­Approximately 70 Saintp.m. to 8:30 in 141 DeBartolo 
Flu

LGBTQ 
essary part of preparation for Mary's students received vacci­Hall, a discussion with both het­the possibility of a pandemic. nations on Oct. 27, DeCleene
continued from page 1
continued from page 1 erosexual and gay, lesbian and 
"We don't want to be caught said, and she expects about 125 bisexual students, Scott said. 
through the creation of a in a surprise," Director of Saint to 150 students to be vaccinated and peer educators will be at the A poster campaign has also Pandemic Task Foree. Mary's Health and Wellness by Nov. 3. After Friday, thepledge tables from 12 p.m. to 3 in been launehed to spread the mes­Committee chairperson and Services Cathy DeCieene said. remaining vaccinations of theLaFortune and 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. sage of LGBTQ History Week. 
Executive Assistant to the And while there is little 250 shots that were ordered will in North and South Dining Halls, "Basically the posters are just fea­President Susan Dampeer said chance of the flu becoming a be distributed to Saint Mary'sScott said. turing different prominent figures the committee was created this pandemic this season, students stafl'.
A film screening of the film "Out throughout history and in modern summer under guidelines set by need to be prepared for the pos­Brubaker said Notre Dameof the Past" will be shown at 8 day society who have contributed the American College Health sibility, Brubaker said. Health Services ordered 5,000p.m. Wednesday night in the to society in many different ways," Association (ACIIA) to develop a "The avian flu is not a possi­vaccinations and expects to useCarey Auditorium of Hesburgh Scott said. "[The posters are] plan that would direct the bility yet for human-to-human all of these vaccinations duringLibrary. basically just to highlight these College's response to a pandem­transfer," she said, but noted the three-day distribution on'The film is about gay and les­figures to create a more explicit ic or similar health crisis. that "it's just as important this Nov. 7, 8 and 9 at Universitybian history, ranging from nearly history for the LGBTQ [communi­Brubaker said Notre Dame year as any other" for students Health Services to both students 400 years ago to the modern day," ty]." 
developed a similar plan shortly to get vaccinated. and staff. The time of vaccineScott said. "There will be a panel These prominent figures, she after Sept. 11, and both schools DeCleene said there is a lower distribution has yet to be deter­after the film as well, made up of said, include authors, athletes, developed their plans under rec­possibility this year for a short­mined, she said. 
faculty and students to discuss the composers and other individuals 
ommendation of federal agen­age of vaccinations, and Vaccinations will first be
film." who have made contributions to cies and groups like the ACIIA although it is important for stu­offered to those in high-riskThe historical "Out of the Past" society. 
Hepresentatives from all dents to get a flu shot, there is health situations, Brubakerwas chosen because it highlights "Through this event, we hope to College departments -from "no panic to get the vaccine." said, followed by all eligible peo­prominent figures in the LGBTQ raise awareness about LGBTQ Campus Ministry to Building Vaccination is especially ple. All vaccinations are [ree tocommunity, Scott said, which is history, and commemorate inspir­Services to Information important for high-risk people, Notre Dame students, staff, fac­sometimes seen as a community ing individuals within this com­Teehnology -comprise the task induding "any nursing student, ulty, retirees and spouses ofwithout a history since it is not munity who have helped create force, with the partkular goal of or people with ongoing, chronic retirees.
something that students usually that history," Scott said. 
the creation of planned response illnesses, especially asthma," While both schools urge thelearn about in grade school. 
to a health crisis, Dampeer said. DeCleene said. importance of getting vaccinat­The "Heterosexism & Contact Bridget Keating Notre Dame's "elaborate and "Any person living in a house­ed, the immunization does notHomophobia: Fine by Me?" event at bkeating@nd.edu 
detailed plans," Brubaker said, hold with a person who is guarantee prevention. indude everything from dealing immuno-compromised, should "The flu vaccination only pro­with a shortage of vaccinations also be vaccinated," Brubaker tects from three strains of to possibilities of quarantine. said. influenza and is only about 71 The plans also determine The College began to offer the percent effective in preventing "whkh dorms we would use fiJr flu shot for $15 on Oct. 27 and those strains," Brubaker said. quarantine, and how they would will continue to immunize stu­get food Iand I linens, among dents from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Contact Aaron Steiner other things," she said. in the Health and Wellness at asteiner@nd.edu 

Tuesday, October 31, 2006 




Dow 
12,086.50 0.00
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,760 154 1,514 2,270,441,850 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) 
+0.64 +13.15 42.48 INTEL CP (INTC) 
+0.76 +0.16 21.26 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 
+0.91 +0.05 5.55 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 
+0.67 +0.19 28.53 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.04 -0.002 4.673 13-WEEK BILL -0.40 -0.020 4.945 30-YEAR BOND -0.21 -0.010 4.786 5-YEAR NOTE +0.11 +0.005 4.637 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.39 58.36 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +6.40 607.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.55 93.58 

Excha Rates 

YEN 
117.4750 EURO 
0.7863 POUND 
0.5261 CANADIAN$ 
1.1255 
IN BRIEF 
Consumer spending edges upward 
WASHINGTON -Consumers kept a pretty firm grip on their wallets in September, boost­ing spending by just 0.1 percent, the smallest increase in 10 months. 
The Commerce Department's report, released Monday, showed that consumers had a solid appetite for big-ticket goods such as cars and appliances last month but they cut spending on nondurable goods such as food and clothes. 
The increase in spending in September, down from a 0.2 percent rise posted in August, matched a 0.1 percent rise in November of last year. The last time spending was weaker was in August of last year, when consumers trimmed purchases by 0.1 percent. 
Americans' incomes, the fuel for future spending, rose by a brisk 0.5 percent in September. That was up from 0.4 percent in August and marked the biggest gain since June. 
The income and spending figures are not adjusted for inflation. 
September's spending increase was less than the 0.3 percent gain that economists were expecting. Income growth, however, turned out to be stronger than the 0.3 percent increases that economists were forecasting. 
KFC axes trans fats for soybean oil 
NEW YORK -KFC said Monday it is phasing out trans fats in cooking its Original Recipe and Extra Crispy fried chicken, Potato Wedges and other menu items, but hasn't found a good alternative yet for its biscuits. 
Health experts say trans fats raise levels of artery-clogging cholesterol and contribute to heart disease. 
The restaurant chain said it will start using zero trans fat soybean oil systemwide in the United States with the rollout expected to be completed by April 2007. KFC said many of its approximately 5,500 restaurants already have switched. 
KFC President Gregg Dedrick said there would be no change in the taste of the chicken and other food items. 
"There is no compromise," he said at a Manhattan news conference. "Nothing is more important to us than the quality of our food and preserving the terrillc taste of our product." 



THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Goodyear to cut over 1,000 jobs 
Company to shut down Texas tire plant; union sees closure as another grievance 
Associated Press 

AKRON, Ohio Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. said on Monday that it plans to close a plant in Tyler, Texas, three weeks after workers at the plant 


and 15 others went on strike in part because of the tire maker's plan to shut down the factory. 
The move will eliminate about 1,100 jobs and is part of Goodyear's strate­gy to end some of its pri­vate label tire business. 
The plant, which opened in 1962, has produced approximately 25,000 pas­senger and light truck tires per day. 
More than 12,000 United Steelworkers mem­bers in Tyler and else­where in North America went on strike Oct. 5 after months of talks with the world's third biggest tire maker. No new talks have been scheduled. 
The United Steelworkers, which rep­resents Goodyear workers, said the announcement to close the Tyler plant was a slap in the face, particu­larly because the union took pay cuts, job losses and other concessions in 2000 to help get the com­pany back on track finan­cially. 
"Now they seem com­mitted to stripping away tire business and that the At the company's head­pressure from low cost health care benefits from decision would mean a quarters in Akron, where imports. those who made the turn­reduction in capacity. The union members have been Officials in Tyler, a city around possible and to company refused to name keeping around-the-clock of about 84,000 people further close plants and specific plants. picket lines, strikers hud­100 miles northwest of abandon the business," Goodyear previously dled around barrel fires Dallas, have been afraid of said Torn Conway, USW announced to investors an for warmth said they were losing one of the area's vice president and chair­aggressive strategy to ·saddened by the closing largest employers. The man of the Goodyear reduce costs by more than announcement but not city recently presented negotiating team. "Their $1 billion by 2008. surprised. Goodyear with a $12 mil­foolishness is outweighed "We must take the steps "If they're closing that lion incentive plan to keep only by their greed." necessary to reduce our plant I'm sorry to hear it. the plant running. 
Goodyear has said the costs and improve our You don't want to lose any Goodyear expects the union refused to agree to competitive position," Jon jobs," said Frank Tyler closing to save it help it remain competitive Rich, president of North Parravani, a 39-year approximately $50 million in a global economy. The American Tire, said in a employee who stood near a year after taxes. The union said the company's statement. "While this is about a dozen headstones closing will result in a last proposal would have an extremely difficult made out of wood with the restructuring charge of included two plant clos­decision for everyone names of Goodyear plants between $155 million and ings -the union says the involved, it was required on them, including Tyler, $165 million, with the other is in Gadsden, Ala. to help turn around our Gadsden and others. cash portion of the -and other concessions. North American busi­The Tyler plant mostly charges estimated to be 
Goodyear said in June ness." makes small passenger between $40 million and that it wanted to leave He did not say when the tires, a segment that has $50 million, the company parts of the private label plant will close. been under considerable said. 

Budget cuts a factor in BP explosion 
explosion with a variety of measures mentation explaining the basis of
Associated Press 

aimed at improving safety. their statement." 
HOUSTON -Internal documents "However, the focus of many of Chapman said BP would not specif­show that budget cuts and a lack of these initiatives was on improving ically comment on what concerns the leadership contributed to significant procedural compliance and reducing company has with the CSB's latest safety problems at BP PLC's Texas occupational injury rates, while cata­findings. The CSB won't issue a final City plant, the site of last year's strophic safety risks remained," she report until March at the earliest. deadly explosion, federal investiga­said. "Unsafe and antiquated equip­"We accept responsibility for the tors said Monday. ment designs were left in place and explosion and we regret the suffering 
In preliminary findings, the U.S. unacceptable deficiencies in preven­it has caused," he said. "Those prob­Chemical Safety and Hazard tative maintenance were tolerated." lems were many years in the making. Investigation Board said BP manage­BP officials said they were sur­We were working to address those ment knew about maintenance, prised by the CSB's latest findings in problems prior to the incident." spending and infrastructure prob­its ongoing investigation. Last December, BP's internal lems well before March 2005 blast "We don't understand the basis for report blamed the blast on failures that killed 15 people and injured some of the comments made by the by management at the refinery, say­more than 170. CSB," BP spokesman Neil Chapman ing it didn't make safety a priority, 
CSB Chairwoman Carolyn Merritt said. "We will await the final written tolerated risks and failed to commu­said BP did respond before the report and hope it will include docu-nicate. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, October 31, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
Implications of Plan B availability 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nocre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE . 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution, The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer polkie$ should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Obse~ (USPS 599 2-4000) is puhlishcd Monday tbrnugh friday except during exam and vaG<~rion periods. A subscriptioo roTh~ Ob.wrvcr is $100 for OflC: academic year; $55 for one scmt:Sttr. 
The Obsc:rver is published at: POSTMASTER OZ4 S®th Dining Hall &nd address corrections w: Notre Dame.-IN 46S56-0779 The Observer Periodical po.stage paid at No(re Dam~ P.O. Box 779 and addidonal mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Norte Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Obscm:r iS a mtrnber ofthe Associat:c:d Press. All reproduction rlghts Mt 
rcgrvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Kelly Meehan Jay Fitzpatrick Katie Kohler Greg Arbogast 
Katie McDonnell Scene Viewpoint Sean Sweany Joey King Graphics Jarred Wafer 
The Food and Drug Administration's approval of over-the-counter sale of the morning-after pill deserves more atten­tion than it received. 
In August, the FDA approved over-the­counter sales of Plan 13, the morning-after pill, without a pre­scription, by pharma­cists (including phar­macy departments in Wal-Mart and similar stores), to men and women who can prove that they are over 1S. Some states had already allowed such sales through proce­dun~s such as "open prescriptions" given by physicians to pharma­cists. 
Plan B is a higher dos(~ of the birth con­trol pill whieh can be sold only by pre­scription. Plan B is marketed as an "emergency contraceptive," but that is a misnomer. Like most oral "contraenp­tives," Plan B operates in throe ways: it prevents ovulation; it prevents fertiliza­tion, the union of the sperm and the ovum; or, if fertilization occurs, it alters the lining of the womb so as to prnvnnt the embryo (i.e., the new human being) from implanting in the womb. Implantation, live to seven days alter fer­tilization, is necessary for the embryo to draw nutrition and survive. 
That embryo is a human being. Beyond any rational doubt, the life of each human being begins at fertilization. When Louise Brown, the world's first "test-tube baby," was born in 1978, the whole world knew when her life began -at the in vitro fer­tilization. Even with identical twins, we know there is at least one life present at fertilization. 
Since the mid-1960s, "pregnancy" has been widely redefined so as to begin not 

Charles Rice 
Right or Wrong? 
at fertilization but at implantation. That made it possible to market birth control pills as eontraeeptives despite the fact that most of them prevent implantation and arn therefore abortifacients. Plan B, in prnventing the implantation of the new human b1~ing in the womb, peqmtrates a homieide. 
Proponents daim that easy access to Plan B will rnduen unwanted pn~gnaneies and abortions. Heeent studies from Washin).,rton State and Scotland, however, draw that assumption into question. The security blanket of the "morning after pill" can reduce barriers to a girl's eon­sent to sexual rnlations. The authoriza­tion li1r over-the-counter sale of the morning-after pill can also faeilitate sexu­al relations between minors and adults. A girl under 1 S cannot go to a pharmaeist and get tho morning-after pill. But her ovnr-18 male "partnnr" ean got it. In 2002 tho Calililfnia Center for llealth Statistics rnportnd that a "slight majority" of prngnandos of girls ages 10 to 14 resulted from sex with an adult. And, of eourse, the morning-after pill can provide an added means to inducn the consent to snxual rnlations of a liJmale of any child­bearing age. 
Plan B, ineidentally, is not free from its own complications. The package insert notes the fi1llowing possible rear:tions: nausea, vomiting, stomach pain, tired­ness, diarrhea, dizziness, heart pain, headache and menstrual changes. 
So why is the over-the-counter sale of Plan B an important cultural indicator? The over-the-counter approval of Plan B reflects tho dncadnnee of a culture in which th1~ intentional inllktion of death upon tho innocent as an optional prob­lem-solving tnchnique. Legalized surgical abortion, of course, provides the primary example. Anothnr is the acceptance of the killing of some kinds of patients by star­vation or excessivo sedation, when the family and caregivers agree that the patient would want, or perhaps ought to want, to depart. The Schiavo case moved this allowance of homicide to a new and compulsory level-Judge George Greer ordered, rather than merely authorized, Michael Schiavo to remove all "nutrition and dehydration" from his wife, Terri. 
Ideas have consequences. The Columbine lligh School massacre in 1999 was the first of many comparable inci­dents. If one has a personal problem, homicide is now on the table as a cultur­ally, if not always legally, acceptable solu­tion. 
The over-the-counter sale of Plan B brings us down to a new level. You can buy an instrument of homicide, such as a knifo or a hammer, in any hardware store. But Plan 13 is dill'erent. To use Plan B, like a hammer, according to the manu­facturer's directions, necessarily involves a conditionally homicidal intent. The intent is to "prevent pregnancy," includ­ing by homicide if the life of the child has already begun. The message is that inno­cent life is so cheap that its termination can bo included in your shopping list, over-the-counter. We can predict the expansion of providers beyond pharma­cies to convenience stores, gas stations, mail order, etc. And we ean hardly expect that this cultural and legal verdict that innocent life is so cheap will be eonfmed to the unborn. 
As Mother Teresa said at the 1994 National Prayer Breakfast, "[!If we accept that a mother can kill even her own child, how can we tell other people not to kill one another?" Especially if the potential mother can buy the murder weapon over­the-counter at CVS or Wai-Mart. 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is on the law school faculty. He can be reached at (574) 633-4415 or at cricel@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 

Does Halloween falling on a Tuesday affect your plans to celebrate? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
'Submit aLetter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Say not, '/ have found the truth,' but rather. '/ have found a truth.. '" 
Kahlil Glbran 
poet 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, October 31, 2006 page 9 
A call for equality in higher education 
Elitism, and the many flavors of dis­crimination implicit in the word, has long been a fixture of American higher education. In another time and another state of mind it took the form of the inequity of men over women, or Caucasians over racial and ethnic minorities, or Christians over non­Christians. Today, although none of these past forms are completely dead, the discrimination found within higher educa­tion is most often expressed by the elit­ism of wealth (espe­cially at Notre Dame and other upper-echelon schools), by intellectual elitism and by the elitism of youth. 
All of these forms of bias are repre­hensible under scrutiny. However, it is the last of these -the elitism of youth -that I wish to specifically address, because of all of these forms of discrimi­nation, it is the most commonly ignored and quite possibly the most preventable. 
In order to get a handle on the nature of the elitism of youth, consider the con­notations implicitly in the phrase "col­lege-aged." Typically the term is used to refer to young men and women between the ages of 18 and 22 inclusive, whether they actually attend college as under­graduates or not. In reality, however, there is no such thing as a college-aged 

Lance Gallop 
Tidewater Blues 

population, because there is no hard upper bound on the age at which a per­son can (or should) begin to attend col­lege, nor on the age at which he or she can complete it (and, for that matter, there is no hard lower bound). Even if one were to attempt to establish the usage as a statistical average using attendance figures, the range would need to be stretched considerably to accommodate the mean. In fact, accord­ing to the Chronicle of Higher Education, those outside of the classic range now constitute the majority of all students. 
To use the terminology "college-aged" is to employ an increasingly invalid stereotype. Yet the usage remains, and this outdated and narrow understand­ing of what constituted a college popu­lation is still the basis for many of the strategic and academic decisions made on campuses across the nation. As a result, many of the country's top schools, including Notre Dame, still cater predominantly to this single popu­lation to the near exclusion of all others. 
This is ironic, because the so-called nontraditional student (as members of this population are rather crudely labeled) is a much more iconic embodi­ment of the "American dream" and the egalitarian principles of the Enlightenment than the stereotypical college student. Nontraditional students must rise to meet and surpass far more forms of adversity than their younger counterparts. Many hold full-time jobs during their college attendance, and very few have parents willing (or able) to share this burden with them. Many are married or have children of their own. All can look forward to reduced opportunities for federal student aid and campus-based scholarships. 
All nontraditional students deserve the educations they are seeking, and all deserve better treatment as they seek them 
America's best universities are not well equipped to assist nontraditional students with their burdens, and even less equipped to incorporate their unique contributions into the social and cultural fabric of their residentially-ori­ented campuses. Yet if more schools accepted nontraditional students as a desirable component of their cultural landscapes, they would find that once this most difficult barrier has been crossed, accommodating the needs of nontraditional students is neither very complex nor prohibitively expensive in proportion to the social benefits. 
Above all, nontraditional students need flexibility. Much of this can be accommodated through careful schedul­ing and by offering courses during the evening and over the weekend. Flexibility can also be incorporated into a campus' layout by giving preference to family and apartment-style dwellings, both in the surrounding community and on campus, by providing public trans­portation to and from the local commu­nity and by locating free and low-cost child care facilities throughout the grounds. 
Flexibility can also be provided by exploring alternate forms of education. Some schools offer inverted majors, where an individual can enroll with proven background experience in a field (say computer science) which the uni­versity certifies and complements by providing a liberal arts foundation. Other schools are increasingly exploring and refining online and distance learn­ing courses, which (if carefully execut­ed) can provide an extremely valuable resource for nontraditional students. 
Universities need to make certain that nontraditional students feel just as wanted on their campuses as their tra­ditional students. They need to make certain there are many opportunities for meaningful interaction between both student populations and between non­traditional students and faculty mem­bers. The potential benefits of this inte­gration are significant, and there is no justifiable reason for excluding valuable members of a campus community ­explicitly or in practice -simply because of age, employment or family needs. 
Lance Gallop is a 2005 graduate of the University ofNotre Dame. He can be contacted at comments@tidewa­terblues. com. This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 
2.5 License. 

The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Poverty initiative starts here 
This is in response to the three-part series of Observer guest columns on global health and poverty (Oct. 23, 24, 25). 
As Notre Dame students, we have the ability to do our part to fight global poverty. Earlier this year, the student senate passed a resolution requesting the exclusive use of Fair Trade coffee in on-campus venues. What this means is that in the future (with the support of the administration) Notre Dame will be contributing to the well-being of coffee farmers living in extreme poverty. The resolution passed through the Student Senate with ease, since the concept of aiding impoverished farmers is hardly a controversial one. 
Despite Senate recognition, Notre Dame's Fair Trade group (part of Amnesty International) still faces the problem of motivating the campus to act. Much of this stems from the fact that a majority of students in Notre Dame have no idea what fair trade is. Fair Trade is a movement that, among other things, promotes reasonable wages for work­ers. 
The people who work all day growing the coffee that we drink live in such extreme poverty that they cannot afford to provide their families with basic needs like food, clothing, shelter and education that we take for granted. Fair Trade helps to alleviate these problems by paying these workers enough money to survive. 
Notre Dame's Fair Trade campaign kicked off last semes­ter with the goal of selling Fair Trade coffee exclusively on campus. This move to sell Fair Trade exclusively has already been accomplished by other major universities and has the support of the Catholic Relief Services organization. As the most prominent of all Catholic universities, Notre Dame should make the moral decision to embrace this movement. 
The first step was receiving the support of student gov­ernment. What we need now is to educate the student body. The more the student body learns about and embraces Fair Trade coffee, the more leverage that student government and Amnesty have in convincing the administration to act. 
To find out how you can help support this campaign email Amnesty International at AMNESTY-ND@listserv.nd.edu or contact either Chris Morrissey at cmorrisl@nd.edu, or Gary Nijak at gnijakl@nd.edu. 
William Sanchez 
sophomore 
Knott Hall 
Oct. 30 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 



THE OBSERVER 
CENE 
Tuesday, October 31, 2006 
DPAC space important to students, public 

The $62.4 million DPAC houses five theaters that offer a range of entertainment. Student facilities occupy the lower space of the building for FTT majors. 
The opening of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC) two years ago marked one of the most sig­nificant additions to Notre Dame's cam­pus. Brand new mainstage and black­box theaters, a beau­tiful concert hall, an ornate organ room and a state of the art cinema brought new spaces for perform­ance and academic ventures. Money was poured into the con­struction, and from the THX certification on the cinema to the organ made in Germany, it would seem no expense was spared in the multi-million dollar building. 
But, how many students really make use of the performances that would never come to South Bend, Ind. if it were not for the DPAC? Are the acts brought in of any interest to students here? If not, should they be? 
These questions are very pertinent to the success of the DPAC, the betterment of Notre Dame's students and the con­tinued focus on the arts here within the Notre Dame and South Bend communi­ties. Should the DPAC be doing more to find shows that cater to the needs of the students, or should it focus more on being the premier arts venue in the northern Indiana/Chicago area? 
From looking at the performers and groups that are being brought in, it would seem the focus is more on the DPAC being a premier arts venue than a place for acts recognizable to the stu­dent body. Now, I am not calling for the Rolling Stones to play in the DPAC­the building was obviously not built for performances of that style. 
However, when the number of South Bend residents in any audience out­numbers the number of students even with the huge break in ticket price stu­dents receive, a problematic situation arises. Some students say it is too far away, others maintain tickets are too expensive, but I would argue the acts don't receive enough press when they come in and are not recognizable enough to students to justify paying the price. 
When the student-run production "The Show" rolls around each fall, there is a noticeable buzz within the student body over who is going to be 

Marty Schroeder 
Assistant Scene Editor 
playing. The acts that do get picked are usually bands or performers well known to most college students. Guster, the Black Eyed Peas and Jason Mraz, to name a few past performers, are bands students are willing to fork over money to go see. Most students aren't going to shell out $15 to see Mark O'Connor's Fiddle Celebration. This is not to say he and the others playing with him are not talented-I am sure they are, or else they would not at the DPAC. What I am saying is that O'Connor is not a name students have 
heard of or, if they have, it Acts that put bodies Paris." The cinema is a small number of stu­shows foreign and
in the seats should be 
dents and does not repre­experimental films few 
the priority, and from
sent a dependable, con­have heard of. As such, stituent audience for the where many students the DPAC should also DPAC. The University is be able to bring in
are sitting, that does
spending money to bring niche performers who
not seem to be the 
in acts that are not draw­play a rare, largely 
ing consistent student audiences. This is a defi­nite problem. 
Now, not everything the DPAC brings to campus is in this vein. Whenever master Irish musicians The Chieftains come to Notre Dame, tickets sell out very quickly from the student body and the public alike. 
The Browning Cinema has also insti­tuted the PAC Classic 100, which is a series of 100 films that a committee of professors and DPAC personnel decided to show. They are in the original 35mm format, but more importantly, they are movies people have heard of. Students can pay just $3 to see popular and important films like "The Grapes of Wrath" and "Citizen Kane." Recognizable films presented to stu­dents in their original format at a very reasonable price is something great. 
However, the Browning still brings in movies that cater to a more art house/film nerd crowd such as "The 
Philadelphia Story" and 
"An American in 
case. unknown instrument. There are more than enough days in a year to allow for this type of scheduling. However, it must be remembered that the DPAC is a regularly operating busi­ness. Acts that put bodies in the seats should be the priority, and from where many students are sitting, that does not seem to be the case. It is a sad day when students decide not to see amaz­ing performances by amazing perform­ers in an amazing building. 

Should this be the case? Not at all. This column is not about bashing the acts the DPAC brings in. This column is about questioning the decisions the DPAC has made in its program­ming. When Legends is able to bring in bands students enjoy (many times for free) and SUB can sell out the Stepan Center by bringing in Ben Folds, the question must be asked why the DPAC can't do the same thing. 
The DPAC is a Notre Dame building built with funds from Notre Dame alumni and designed to house a depart­ment within the Notre Dame academic community (the Film, Television and Theatre Department). Departmental performances from the FTT, Music and other departments are often performed in the 
DPAC. 
More focus on academics is needed. The basement contains classrooms, a rehearsal hall, 
editing studios, a costume shop and recording studios all constructed with student use in mind. Granted, the build­ing was not built to be a music and/or acting conservatory. However, the gen­eral feeling of disassociation from the DPAC by the general student body is an issue that needs to be addressed. 
Perhaps the administration and the executive side of the DPAC believe the building should focus more on the region and garner prestige for the University in the wider community. But in the process, Notre Dame has seem­ingly ignored what its students want ­or at least placed that factor on a lower rung of importance. 
In order to make the DPAC the vibrant building it deserves to be, pro­gramming focused more on student wants and needs has to be placed on the agenda and performed for all to see. Otherwise, the DPAC will languish on the far end of the campus as a trib­ute to great hopes and aspirations, but nothing more. Don't kick out South Bend, but let's bring Notre Dame back in. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
courtesy 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, October 31, 2006 
page 11 
TELEVISION REVIEW 
Acting, story shine beneath NBC's 'Lights' 
By CHRIS HINE 
Scene Writer 
"Friday Night Lights" is not really about the game of football, and that's a good thing. 
Adapted from the bestselling book and 2004 movie of the same name, the primary focus of the NBC drama is how football affects the team and the lives of the townspeople of Dillon, Texas. 
Dillon is a small town where Monday is known as "four days from Friday," when the beloved Panthers will take the field in pursuit of another state championship. 
Head coach Eric Taylor (Kyle Chandler, "King Kong") is in his first year as coach trying to produce a win­ning squad under enormous expecta­tions from the town. Things get com­plicated when Notre Dame-bound quarterback Jason Street (Scott Porter) is paralyzed in the season opener. Taylor must turn to little used backup Matt Saracen (Zach Gilford) to save the season and, in turn, protect his own coaching job from the highly critical town. 
The show also follows fullback Tim Riggins (Taylor Kitsch) as he struggles to deal with his best friend's paralysis and the romantic feelings he has for Street's girlfriend, Lyla Garrity (Minka Kelly). 
The third central thread of the show involves the everyday life of Saracen, who has to take care of his sick grand­mother while his father spends a tour of duty in Iraq. On top if all that, he must deal with the pressure that comes along with suddenly being the starting quarterback for the storied Panthers. 
Executive producer, director and writer Peter Berg, who also produced the film version o.f "Friday Night Lights," spends each episode develop­ing the characters instead of focusing on the X's and O's of football with spectacular results. Berg has captured the cultural impact of football on small-town America. In towns like Dillon, football is not just something to do on Friday nights -it's the only thing the town has going for it. Everything closes down when the Panthers take the field, and everyone from politicians to small children lives for Dillon football. 
Berg's documentary style of filming each episode adds to the authenticity of being in the moment with the team and experiencing its ups and downs 

second episode ranks with some of the most memorable scenes in recent television drama. 
Taylor brings Saracen to the field late one night and tells him the quarterback job is his for the taking. In this scene, neither coach nor player have faith in their own abilities, and it is here that both realize the only way they will be able to perform is to rely on each other. It is one of those magi­cal scenes, comparable to Tony's daughter finding out that her father is a mobster by seeing the blood on his shoes in "The Sopranos," or President Bartlet questioning God over the death of Mrs. Landingham in "The West Wing," where a well-written script and great acting com­bine to create a moment that transcends words. 
The weakest part of the 
The main cast members of "Friday Night Ughts" assemble on the football field. Adapted show is the melodramatic love 
from the popular book and film, NBC's new drama has been well received by audiences. story between Tim and Lyla. In 
without being invasive. He uses many different camera placements and angles to film the games, giving them big screen treatment on the small screen. Aside from a few editing errors, the footage keeps the drama of the episodes palpable. 
What makes "Friday Night Lights" so great is what lies underneath the characters. 
TV veteran Connie Britton ("Spin City") adds a touch of humor and depth in her performance as Coach Taylor's wife Tami. On one hand, Tami wants badly to help her husband in preparing for the games, but she also knows that the last thing her husband needs is someone else telling him what to do. Britton does an excellent 
job balancing 
None of them 
Tami's personal 
is a carica­
struggle with being 
ture or 
the coach's wife
Friday Night Lights 
stereotype, 
while also being
Mondays at 10 p.m. 
and Berg 
the support system 
infuses each 
and strong figure 
with authen­
her husband needs
NBC 
tic emotional 
her to be. 
angst and 

Lastly, Porter's 
touching sto­
performance as the 
rylines. 
paralyzed Street is 
Chandler 

understated and 
does an excellent job portraying the self-doubt that comes along with being the head coach of a heavily scurtinized football team. There is irony in most every­thing he says to the team. For every pep talk he gives to the team, every motivational technique he employs, there is an underlying sense that he does not believe what he is saying, that in trying to convince his team they can go out and win, he is also trying to convince himself that he is capable of leading them to victory. 
nuanced. This is an accomplishment given that his story­line holds the temptation for others to overact in search of the audience's sympathy. 
But it is Gilford's heartbreaking por­trayal of the backup quarterback Saracen that steals the show. Whether making sure that his grandmother takes her pills or trying to ask Coach Taylor's daughter on a date, Gilford lends Saracen a genuine innocence with just the expressions on his face. A scene with Coach Chandler in the 
spite of the cliched nature of the relationship, Kitsch and Kelly give strong performances that cover for the triteness of the storyline and keep the audience's sympathy with the charac­ters despite the fact that they are betraying their best friend. 
Episodic television gives Berg the time span he needs to develop cha_rac­ters, weave multiple storylines togeth­er, and give an in-depth portrayal and analysis of the town of Dillon. Forty minutes each week can allow a series like "Lights" to develop a sophisticat­ed social analysis to study human motives and the psychological impact of winning that a two-hour movie can not. 
Berg can give us insight into the uni­versal desire for people to win. The series can give us insight into our inner soul and what compels people to win at all costs, whether in football, business or love. The only question is, how long can "Friday Night Lights" remain on the air? 
"Friday Night Lights" is currently suffering from low ratings, but NBC has shown faith in the series by order­ing 13 more episodes in the hopes it can find an audience. Hopefully, it will, because with its strong acting and excellent character writing, "Lights" has the potential to become one of the best dramas of all time. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, October 31, 2006 


NHL 
Forsberg's two goals lead Flyers past Chicago 
Maple Leafs use power play, two goals from Darcy Tucker, to hand Atlanta its second regulation loss of the season 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Robert Esche stayed prepared while he and the Philadelphia Flyers got off to a rocky start this season. 
Peter Forsberg scored twice, including a spectacular goal in the third period, and Esche recorded his lOth career shutgut in the Flyers' 3-0 victo­ry over the Chicago Blackhawks on Monday night. 
"I think my practices the last week have been some of my best practices that I've had all season," said Esche, who mak­ing his third start of season. 
Esche stopped 26 shots in his first win. He was especially sharp in the second period when he made 15 saves and helped kill three Chicago power plays. 
It was only the third win in 11 games for the Flyers (3-7 -1), off to one of their poorest starts in franchise history. The Blackhawks have dropped five straight after winning three of four. 
Esche was aided by defense­man Denis Gauthier, who made a diving stop of a shot by for­mer Flyer Patrick Sharp in the front of the net midway through the third period. 
"Our team was magnificent," Esche said. "They played great. All of our defensemen ... there was a lot of great play all over the place." 
Chicago's Brian Boucher, a first-round draft pick of the Flyers in 1995, was almost as 
effective in stopping 32 of 34 shots. Boucher played for the third straight game, replacing Nikolai Khabibulin, who is expected to be sidelined up to two weeks because of a broken finger. 
"It's frustrating losing, but we've got to stay with it," Boucher said. "We can't get dis­couraged." 
Forsberg put the Flyers ahead 
7:25 in with a backhander after taking a pass from Stefan Ruzicka. The Flyers captain made it 2-0 with a brilliant goal at 11:57 of the third. Forsberg stickhandled around Sharp and slid a backhander past Boucher. 
"That's why he's a world class player," Boucher said. "A cou­ple of breakdowns there and he made us pay. That's what good players do." 
Maple Leafs 4, Thrashers 2 
The Toronto Maple Leafs beat the Atlanta Thrashers yet again, this time by using their power play. 
Darcy Tucker scored two power-play goals and the Maple Leafs won their eighth straight against the Thrashers, earning a victory on Monday night. 
Tomas Kaberle also scored on the power play for Toronto, which won consecutive games for the first time this season. The Maple Leafs beat Montreal in a shootout Saturday night. 
Toronto scored three power­play goals during an 86-second stretch in the first period. 
"I can't explain why we play 

AP 

Blackhawks defenseman Lasse Kukkonen, left, Flyers center Jeff Carter, middle, and Blackhawks 
goalie Brian Bouche battle for the puck Monday In Philadelphia. 
so well against them. We were fortunate to get two points tonight," Tucker said. 
The Thrashers lost for just the second time in regulation, and were coming off' a big victory on Saturday when they snapped Buffalo's season-opening win­ning streak at 10. 
But their troubles against Toronto continued. Atlanta has been outscored 37-9 during the skid and hasn't beaten the Maple Leafs since a 3-2 road 

victory on Oct. 27, 2003. 
Ilya Kovalchuk and Brad 
Larsen scored for Atlanta. 
"Sometimes coming off an 
emotional game like Saturday, 
it's tough to come back," 
Atlanta captain Scott Mellanby 
said. "But there's no excuse. 
We've got to be ready. 
"Those first period power 
plays were the difference. We 
just couldn't claw our way 
back." 
Ducks 6, Blues 5, SO 
The Anaheim Ducks are off 
to a fast start even though 
Teemu Selanne and his line­
mates haven't busted out yet. 
If they do, watch out. 
Selanne and Ryan Getzlaf 
scored in the shootout to lift 
Anaheim to a wild victory over 
the St. Louis Blues after the 
Ducks squandered a two-goal 
lead late in regulation Monday 
night. 

Selanne, who led the Ducks 
with 40 goals and 90 points 
last season, has just one goal 
and seven assists so far for the 
Ducks (9-0-3). 
"We need the depth obvious­
ly" Selanne said. "Our line has­
n't sparked just yet. Our team 
is winning and that's what 
matters." 
Jean-Sebastien Giguere made one save in the tiebreak­er and watched St. Louis' other -attempt go wide as the Ducks tied idle Buffalo with an NHL­
high 21 points. 
Christan Backman nearly won it for the Blues in over­time, but his shot with just over 5 seconds left hit the right post behind Giguere. Backman gave St. Louis a 1-0 lead just 31 seconds into the game with his first goal of the season. 
St. Louis erased a  pair of  
two-goal deficits to  earn a  
point in the standings.  

"We feel good about being able to come back, but when it comes down to it, we want two points," Backman said. "We don't want to be losing. It doesn't matter who we're play­ing." 
Anaheim defenseman Scott Niedermayer snapped a tie with a 5-on-3 power-play goal at 2:51 of the third period and Dustin Penner pushed the Ducks' lead to S-3 with anoth­er man-advantage goal 43 sec­onds later. 
The Blues then set up for their second comeback. 
Keith Tkachuk netted his first of the season on a power play with 5:10 remaining in the third period, and Radek Dvorak got St. Louis even at 18:56. 
Officials reviewed that goal for several moments to see if Dvorak struck the puck with a high stick. But he was credited with his fourth of the season. 
The five goals marks a sea­son-high allowed by Giguere, who entered with a 1.81 goals against average. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
45 minutes from Notre Dame Stadium. $125.00/night Year round WANTED cabins sleep six. 
Call Lumbe~ack Resort 269-646-2181. 3-4 bdrm home, 1.5 BA, 2 mLN of 
ND. 2-stall garage_ 4 lots. HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 $101 ,000. 52420 Forestbrook. Call Bedrooms Terry 574-289-5630 or Ron 277-www.NDstudentrentals.com 4122. 
Rooms for rent for football week­ends. Close to campus. Call 574-243-0658. 
FoR RENT 
House Available for 07-08 Year. 
Close to Campus. Just Renovated BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam-to Brand New Condition. Open to pus homes & weekend rentals_ groups of 9-11 Students. Contact Bluegoldrentals.com MacSwain@ gmaiLcom RENT-Furnished 1 bedroom Jamison condo Nov-May 07. Call Mary Anne Benedict@ 607-723­7363 or 607-770-0944. 
TICKETS 

WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251­1570 
FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232­0964 
WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726. 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK-Spring Break 2007 Celebration. You know what really grinds my ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232-20th Anniversary w/Sun Splash gears? The fact that USC IS ahead 2378. Tours. Free trip on every 12 before of us in the polls. They lost to 
Nov. 1. Free Meals & Parties, Oregon frikin State, and they've had Need NC football tix. Will pay face. Hottest Deals Ever_ Group just as many close calls against Call 574-276-8507. Discounts on 6 or more. Hottest average teams as we have. And 
Spring Break Destinations. 1800-they say Notre Dame gets favorable 426-7710. treatment in the polls. www.sunsplashtours.com
PERSONAL 
Why did the dog fall out of the tree? The Jets performance was utterly It was dead. disgraceful yesterday_ They lost to UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do the Browns, the Cleveland Browns. HAPPY HALLOWEEN TO ALL not go it alone. If you or someone Unbelievable. YOU ALL YOU BOYS AND GOULS you love needs confidential support OUT THERE ___ or assistance, please call Sr. Sue If Tom Brady and Doug Gabriel Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more don't get me at least 300 fantasy How nice was the weather today? informa1ion, see our bi-weekly ad in points tonight, I will be very, very, Please let the weather be this good The Observer. very angry. for the UNC game this weekend. 

OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, October 31, 2006 CorvtPlLED FROM Tr-u OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NFL 


.team 
Baltimore 
Cincinnati 
Cleveland 
Pittsburgh 
team Indianapolis 
Jacksonville 
Tennessee 
Houston 
team 
Denver San Diego Kansas City Oakland 
team 
ttv.Gianls 
Dallas 
Philadelphia 
Washington 
record 
5·2 
4·3 
2·5 
2~5 

record ""t~~;.~;;;, , ,, ~ov , ····'···· ''''""'·'·'·'· · · 7•0 
4"3 
2·5 
2~5 
AFCWest 

recorp perc; " PF' ··· PA 
5•2 . ,;114 
5·2 ;714 
4-3 .571 
2~5 ;286 
NFC East 


4 ·,··, ,..·,.. Phil Nlitketson 
3 Vijay Siilgh '•••••••,···: ? ::~=:::;:~\ j:,:i,···········
5 GenU Ogli\IY 
6 ·Adanrsr:olt 
7 Trevnrtrnmelma•r ' · 8 ··· Stuart Appleby 
9 Lllke<Drinald 
10 .. ,Brettweuerlch 
11 ,·,· ··•·.·,·, DavidToms 
12 Rory Sabbatlnl 

around the dial 
NCAA FooTBALL UAB at SMU 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 

NBA Chicago at Miami 8 p.m., TNT Phoenix at Los Angeles Lakers 10:30 p.m., TNT 
Associated Press 

MINNEAPOLIS -Tom Brady beat Minnesota's relentless rushing defense by simply throwing over it, over and over again. 
Brad Johnson? He was no match for New England's unflappable quarterback, making a handful of uncharacteristic mistakes. 
Brady passed for 372 yards and threw touch­downs to four different receivers, quieting another loud crowd and leading the Patriots past the Vikings 31-7 on Monday night. 
"We were playing a great defense on the road, and the plan was to come out and put the ball in the air a little bit," said a grinning Brady. "The receivers made a lot of great plays, and it was a lot of fun, needless to say." 
Johnson, intercepted three times, was 20-of-33 for 185 yards. Minnesota's only score was a 71-yard punt return by Mewelde Moore, but New England rookie Laurence Maroney -playing in the stadium where he became a college star _ answered that with a 7 4-yard kickoff return. 
The Patriots (6-1), who have won six straight on the road, host Indianapolis (7-0) on Sunday. 
The Vikings (4-3) proved they weren't in their oppo­nent's class just yet. Playing their first Monday night home game in five years, they were consistently outschemed and out­worked. 

Brady hasn't lost in 10 NFL games indoors, but he's usually pretty good wherever he plays. Save for an up-for-grabs pass up the sideline that Darren Sharper snagged for a one­handed interception as he fell down in the first quar­ter, Brady was brilliant. 
"You come into this envi­ronment, and you see the fans leaving midway through the fourth quar­ter," Brady said. "We played better than we've been playing." 
The last time he was 

here, the three-time Super 
Bowl champion was lead­
ing Michigan to a win over 
the University of Minnesota 
in 1998. And, boy, it sure 
looked like Brady was fac­
ing those defenseless 
Gophers again -not a 
Vikings team that had held 
every prior opponent to 19 
points or less and entered 
the game ranked seventh in 
the league in total yards 
allowed. 
First-year defensive coor­dinator Mike Tomlin has helped create a dominant unit fueled by a fierce front four, but his charges were embarrassed on each of _New England's three first­
half scoring drives. 
IN BRIEF 

Federer pulls out of Paris Masters due to fatigue 
PARIS -Roger Federer pulled out of the Paris Masters because of fatigue Monday, and tennis officials promised to take steps to make sure the game's elite players abide by commitments to the top tourna­ments. 
The withdrawal by the game's No. 1 player came a day after he won the Swiss Indoors for his 11th title this year. No. 2-ranked Rafael Nadal said Sunday he would not compete in Paris because of an abdominal injury. Andy Roddick and David Nalbandian also have withdrawn. 
"Roger phoned this morning to say he is suffering from a general fatigue," tournament co-director Alain Riou said. "He's scared of pushing too hard, so he'd rather not take the risk." 
ATP chairman Etienne de Villiers promised changes to "assure the future of this fantastic tournament." 
Duke lacrosse dancer called 
crazy by colleague 
DURHAM, N.C. -The woman who said she was raped after per­forming as a stripper at a Duke lacrosse team party was clearly impaired and "talking crazy" after­ward, the second dancer at the party said in an interview broadcast Monday. 
"The trip in that car from the house ... went from happy to crazy," Kim Roberts told ABC News, which aired the interview on "Good Morning America" Monday and posted details on its Web site. "I tried all different ways to get through to her." 
Roberts, who has previously called the rape allegations a "crock," left the party with the accuser and drove her to a nearby grocery store. Unable to get the accuser to leave her car, Roberts said she pushed on the woman's arm and leg to try to force her out. 
NCAA seeks to rein in 
spending on sports 
WASHINGTON -When the NCAA set out to improve graduation rates among student-athletes, it established national standards and penalties for teams that didn't comply. Shifting the focus from academics to finances required a much more hands-off approach. 
In a task-force report released Monday by NCAA president Myles Brand, Division I schools were encour­aged to rein in spending on sports _ but there aren't any requirements everyone must adhere to or punishments if they don't. 
"In the case of academic reform, we had a hammer -namely, by teams not conforming, we could take away schol· arships and, if that failed, we could keep them out of the Final Four and postsea­son. That's heavy duty. That's a sledge­hammer," Brand said after speaking at the National Press Club. "The fact is, we don't have that for fiscal responsibility in intercollegiate athletics." 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 31, 2006 
NFL 

Colts' Manning: Renaissance QB 
Pro Bowl quarterback directs comebacks, does commercials with ease 
Associated Press 
There are only so many times an athlete can make you sit up and pay attention. 
Most are lucky if those moments linger for a game or two. Some get a series, others a season. A handful sustain it over the course of a career. 
A few do it so often we take those performances for granted. Peyton Manning is that guy right now. 
That's not to say he's unappre­ciated, or underexposed. Manning was the league's MVP in 2004, he shared the award with Steve McNair the year before, and lost it to Shaun Alexander in a close race the last time around. He set NFL records for most touchdown throws and highest passer rating in a sea­son, and is on pace to claim a dozen others. 
The only place Manning might be easier to spot than in the record book is on TV. 
He's doing commercials for top-drawer companies, spoofing his regular-guy image by bug­ging grocery clerks to autograph melons for his little brother, or his own lack of sex appeal by donning a wig and mustache to convince cell-phone users to download the highlights of a cer­tain "6-5, 230-pound quarter­back (with a) laser, rocket arm." 
With Tiger Woods on winter break and Kobe Bryant still recovering from knee surgery, try finding an athlete who deliv­ers your money's worth more often than Manning. 
Sunday in Denver, facing a defense that hadn't allowed a touchdown at home and only two this season, he was his usual, methodical self. 
Manning led the Colts to scores on seven of their final eight drives, and that's only because he took a knee at the end of the first half, when they trailed 14-3. He completed 39 passes in all, 6 of 7 on the next-to-last drive, and all five attempts in the final one, marching the Colts to set-up Adam Vinatieri's 37 -yard game­winner with 2 seconds left. 
He might as well have been staging a clinic. 
"This is where Coach (Tony) Dungy is so great," Manning said, recounting a conversation just before that last drive. "He said, 'Hey, there's a minute, 50 seconds left, three time-outs, we got plenty of time, you don't have to get very far.... That keeps everybody calm." 
The knock against Manning, of course, is that he only has games like this during the regular sea­son -and that while the Colts might be a perennial threat to go undefeated through the part of the schedule that's already pen­ciled in, the playoffs are another matter. 
Last year, Manning seemed ready to close that chapter of his career. He got a measure of revenge against his usual tor­mentors, clobbering the Patriots and Tom Brady in a Monday night game at their place. It was­n't exactly a fair fight -New England was missing a half-dozen key players, soft in the secondary and stuck with a sorry imitation of a running game. Still, as part of an unbeaten run that stretched to 13 games, it locked up three weeks' rest for the Colts and home-field advan­tage through the playoffs. 

But a season that began with such promise took a tragic detour with the suicide of Dungy's 18-year-old son, James, in late December, then ended with a loss to the eventual Super Bowl champion Steelers at home. The Colts lost Edgerrin James in the offseason, picked up Vinatieri and vowed to get better. 
Counting Sunday's 35-31 win, Indianapolis is 7-0" and doesn't appear to have skipped a beat. Manning's passer rating, already near his record season of 121.1 heading into the contest, wasn't hurt by the 129.2 he posted before heading out of town. Next week's gut check, conveniently, takes the Colts back to New England, where they will again be underdogs and coach Bill Belichick will have a healthier complement of players at his dis­posal and a running attack pun­ishing enough to occupy the Colts' last-ranked rushing defense. 
· But before all the attention shifts toward what's coming up, take a moment to savor some of what Manning left behind: a wrecked Denver defense that was the stingiest in the league, tailored to neutralize his favorite weapons by trading for one cor­ner, Champ Bailey in 2004, and using its first-round pick on another, Darrent Williams in 2005. And none of it made a dif­ference. 
Manning doesn't project Brady's cool, Michael Vick's flair, Donovan McNabb's improvisa­tional skills or even Brett Favre's fading charisma. The only thing he does markedly better than any of them is study, poring over charts on the sideline more dur­ing games than some coaches do in a week. Then he brings them unerringly to life. 
SOCCER 
U.S. seeks German engineering 
Soccer federation lists Klinsmann as finalist for top co.achi'ng job 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -The U.S. Soccer Federation confirmed its interest in Juergen Klinsmann and said it has narrowed its search for an American national team coach down to five finalists. 
Klinsmann, who coached Germany to the World Cup semifinals this year, last week said he had started talks with USSF president Sunil Gulati. During a telephone confer­ence call Monday, Gulati was full of praise for Klinsmann. 
"Eighteen months ago or two years ago, obviously the German federation saw some­thing very speeial in Juergnn," Gulati said. "lie hadn't coached until then and they asked him to guide the national team. lie was very successful." 
Gulati said he started with an initial pool of 13. lie did not identify any finalists but said the USSF had not asked for permission to speak to Hussia coach Guus lliddink or Portugal coach Luiz Felipe Scolari. 
Klinsmann, a star for Germany's national team dur­ing the 1990, 1994 and 1998 World Cups, was hired in July 2004 by Germany's soccer federation, the Deutsche Fussbali-Bund. It was Klinsmann's first professional coaching job. 
"The DFB looked at a terrif­ic player, a terrific personali­ty, a great leader and said, This is the way we want to go," Gulati said. "Franz Beckenbauer when he coached the German national team didn't have a lot of coaching experience." 
Klinsmann lives in suburban Los Angeles and is regarded by many as the favorite to replace Bruce Arena, who was hired as the American coach in late 1998. Arena led the U.S. team to the quarterfi­nals in 2002, its best perform­ance since 1930, but the Americans were eliminated 

from a tough first-round group this year. Klinsmann resigned as Germany's coach three days after the tourna­ment, saying he wanted to spend time with his family, and Arena was told in July that his contract wouldn't be renewed. 
"Juergen brings a lot of very positive qualities to the possi­bility of coaching the national team," Gulati said. "He had also indicated a desire to take some time off and has said that he's now taken some time off and he'd be open to having a discussion." 
Gulati said "track record of success" is the most impor­tant criteria and that "helping us sell the game continuous­ly" is another factor. Klinsmann fits both cate­gories, and his hiring would boost the national team's level of attention. While Gulati wants the new coach to speak Spanish, he acknowledged "it may not be on the first day of the job." 
All five finalists gave the USSF the go-ahead to enter the national team in next year's Copa America, South America's championship, for the first time since 1995. That tournament will be played in Venezuela from June 26-July 15, immediately following the CONCACAF Gold Cup, the championship of North and Central America and the Caribbean (June 6-24). 
Because both tournaments fall in the middle of Major League Soccer's season, Gulati discussed the matter with MLS commissioner Don Garber. 

Live, learn, and work in the nation's capital during the fall or spring semester with the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

GRAM 
INFORMATION OPEN HOUSE 
Thursday, November 2, 2006 
10:00 a.m. -3:00 p.m. in 163 Hurley 
Come by for KRISPY KREME DONUTS in the morning or COOKIES in the afternoon! 
Deadline to apply for Fall2007 or Spring 2008 is November 15,2006. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu; 163 Hurley; 631-7251; www.nd.edu/-wp 
Tuesday, October 31, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
heading into the half. two crucial red zone fumbles in The second half was marked the fourth quarter. 
Griffins 
by strong defensive performance "Give all the credit to by both teams. Both Stanford Siegfried," Keenan captain Matt
continued from page 20 
and Fisher had to punt the ball Gibson said. "They came to play The Griffins executed away on every series but one. today. They out-hit us, and we McLeod's strategy perfectly. 
Rabil was disappointed with just couldn't overcome the big 
From the very first play, the the outcome of the game, but he mistakes." Stanford defense showed its credited the Griffins with putting Led by middle linebacker Will determination by securing the up a great fight. Jourdan, Siegfried forced three line and putting good coverage "We knew we had to take it punts and a turnover on downs on the Green Wave's receivers. one game at a time," he said. in addition to three fumbles. 
While Stanford was also able "The defense provided the 
to force an early turnover, it Siegfried 3, Keenan 0 heart," Wopperer said. "They could not capitalize on the After fmishing regulation to a kept the game within reach." opportunity and gave the ball 0-0 tie, Keenan and Siegfried But even the bend-but-don't 
back to the Green Wave came down to two legs. break style appeared not enough 
Fisher then began a long, Keenan drove the ball to the to contain the dominant Keenan steady drive down the field led Siegfried five on two runs by offense. by freshman Jamie Ellis, who Alex Gonzalez, and when its Despite the constant offensive found holes in Stanford's defen­pass sailed incomplete in the miscues, Keenan quarterback sive line for big gains. end zone, the field goal unit trot-J.J. Vega-5-of-14 for 56 yards 
With the ball ted onto the -led his team into the red zone on the 30-yard field. A strong in the game's final minutes. line, quarter­surge, coupled Following completions of 18 and
"We called the pump 
back Pat with a bobbled 1 7 yards to Jim Zenker and Hal Gotebeski fake special. We ran a snap enabled Munger, respectively, as well as the Ramblers to a seemingly disastrous pass
who took over as hitch-and-go, and 
block the kick, interference call on thestarter after 
thought we could hold 
Kevin Rabil suf­knocking off the Ramblers, Vega positioned the fered a broken the corner." No. 2 seeded Knights for a game-winning field ankle in Fisher's Knights Sunday. goal on the last play of the game. last regular sea­The Ramblers But the 34-yard attempt sailed
Chris Stroh 

son game took possession wide left, leaving the window of
Mob quarterback 
first in the over­opportunity open for Siegfried. and connected time period, Despite the heartbreaking loss, with his receiver getting the ball Gibson remained encouraged for in the end zone. Kicker Thomas at the Keenan 10-yard line. the prospects of next season. Sullivan successfully converted Unable to move the ball, "We return all but five play­the point-after attempt to give Siegfried was forced to try a field ers," he said. "We'll be back and Fisher an early 7-0 lead. goal. The pressure fell on the ready to play next year." 
The Stanford offense was shoulders of the emergency Wopperer expressed a sense of eager to put some points on the kicker Brandon Burke, who was redemption for his team and 
board before the end of the half, filling in for an injured Pablo dorm. and it got the perfect opportuni­Nava. Burke, booted the 27-"We lost to Keenan two years ty to do so when Fisher fumbled yarder, setting the stage for the ago in the semis, so this was a a punt return that the Griffins dramatic fmish. bit of payback," he said. were able to recover just 20 Following the game, an elated yards from the end zone. With Siegfried captain Matt Wopperer, O'Neill 21, Carroll 8 just five seconds left in the half, was at a loss for words. Sending players in motion, 
Duerson recovered his own 
looked downfield 
"It's like, 'Wow,"' Wopperer irregular snap counts and line­teammate's fumble on the 3-said. "They [Keenan] were a of-scrimmage check downs were yard line and charged into the 
darn good team, but our defense all part of O'Neill's strategy dur­end zone. really held it together." ing its 21-8 win over Carroll Because the Stanford team Despite gaining 141 yards to Sunday. does not have a kicker, it was 
the Ramblers' 70, the Knights The most telling play in terms forced to go for two, but the were unable to finish drives, of O'Neill's execution and versa­Green Wave stopped the run, turning the ball deep in Siegfried tility came in the fourth quarter. giving Fisher a 7-6 advantage territory three times, including O'Neill forced Carroll to punt, 
Jane Austen 

Does this Woman 
Intimidate 
you? 
Meet Jane HER way­
OUT LOUD 

Lectio@ Eleven A Late-night Cabaret for the Soul 
Readings, music, and open mike at Recker's Tuesdays 11 :00 pm-Midnight, starting Halloween contact Jonathan Couser, jcouser@nd.edu or 631-3923 
and during the ensuing drive, the Mob had a first-and-10 on the Vermin 44-yard line. O'Neill quarterback Chris Stroh saw the defensive alignment and checked off. He dropped back, pump-faked and threw a 43­yard strike down the right side­line to receiver Nate Forte. 
That pass set up a one-yard touchdown run by running back Braden Turner to make the score 21-8. 
"We were running the ball up the middle, and the corners were up tight," Stroh said. "I thought the receivers could beat the corners off the ball, and I saw the middle linebacker blitz­ing." 
Stroh's pump fake worked wonders. 
"We called the pump fake spe­cial," Stroh said. "We ran a hitch-and-go, and thought we could hold the corner." 
The Mob's first three plays of the game set the tone for the style of play it would employ all game long. Receivers went in motion, forcing Carroll's stock 4­3 defense to rearrange. O'Neill's first drive lasted eight plays ­seven of which were runs -and resulted in a one-yard touch­down run by fullback Mike Mattingly. After an offsides penalty on the point-after attempt moved the ball to the one-and-a-half yard line, the Mob decided to go for two and converted on a Mattingly run. 
"We've been stressing the run offense," Mob captain Pat Conley said. 
The Mob varied the snap count throughout the game, a measure that many times caught the Vermin defense off guard. 
Carroll was in the game early. It rebounded with its own 15­play, 65-yard drive that resulted in a three-yard touchdown run by running back Mike Johnson. The Vermin completed their two-point conversion attempt on a pass to Johnson from quarter­back Cory Wilmont. 
After that, the game belonged to O'Neill. O'Neill forced a three­and-out on Carroll's first posses­sion of the second half and scored again on a 23-yard play­action pass from quarterback Chris Stroh to receiver Alex Fortunato. 
Morrissey 7, Zahm 6 
It's ironic that in a game domi­nated by ground offense, the winning touchdown would come on a pass. 
But when Morrissey quarter­back Joe McBrayer completed a 34-yard pass to wide receiver Carl Anderson on the fifth play of the game for a 7-6 win over Zahm Sunday, that's exactly what happened. 
Morrissey went ahead 7-0 and held on to win. 
Zahm was forced to punt on its first possession, but Morrissey fumbled the kick, giving the ·• Manorites the ball on the 19­yard line. Rabid Bat quarterback Sean Wieland completed a cor­ner route into the back of the end zone for Zahm's only touch­down of the game. 
The two-point conversion was no good, marking the difference in the game. 
Both Zahm running back Theo Ossei-Anto and Morrissey's run­ning back committee of Nick Bencomo, Brian Pieh and Steve Klein performed well, control­ling the clock and moving the chains. 
McBrayer attempted seven passes, but completed four for 55 yards and a touchdown. He also threw two interceptions in the game. 
Klein attributed the success of the running game to the offen­sive line. 
"We have a great line," he said. "That's part of our game plan, to grind the clock out." 
The Manor fizzled after their strong opening. McBrayer threw an interception on the next pos­session, setting up a 13-play drive by the Rabid Bats. The drive ended on the five-yard line when time ran out in the first half. 
Morrissey came out firing in the second half. After forcing a three-and-out, the Manorites put together a beautiful 21-play drive that lasted for the rest of the third quarter and half of the fourth quarter. 
Zahm put together a late drive, but an illegal block penal­ty forced a fourth-and-37. The ensuing pass resulted in an interception by Manorite defen­sive back Mike Fletcher, effec­tively ending the game. 
Klein was happy with the way the defense performed. 
"We'd rather have them bend and not break, than give up the big play," he said. "Zahm never broke a big play." 
Contact Kate Donlin at kdonlin@nd.edu, Colin Reimer at creimer@nd.edu and Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

HIRING IMMEDIATELY 
$1 5 per hour! 
...did we get your attention? 
Passage Ev•0nfs. o leoc"ier in event rrK.lrketin{:l servk:;es, hos c.unt:.:nt opportunities for oui·g<)in~J, dvnornic. ener~·Je!-lc, hip, i'r!fJncJiy. r:ord·-V'/Orklng. preserrloble, nrKJ relioble Prornotlonol f<epresentotiv,2•S. f,s a Prornotlonol l<epresenl-otive. you will repr0sent our client's V;e>ry cool h;qh-tech produc·l ot local areo events. You wm also rnokH \!!,;.t}S)~J.\,d§.(,t.in-home. o!'ter­instcdlotion. serviCE"!" fo!lov-;....ur::: coils. ons.v.:er!nq c;.ustorner questions onc'i deliver gift t:;oskH1s. 
This is o port-Hrne, l<l week opp(,rtuntty. Hours. scl!eduhO>s on;:i ev•s,nt lo(;o!k)ns vory. so we nt=;-ec:j pt:;oop!e wl"'lO !ove to work fiexiblo scheduiBS inclucilng vvel7kends ond hoiiciays. 
For this job you must: 
+!• Be !:rien<Jiy, oui·~-~olnG: rt)Sponsit)le, and enjc:y int€rrocHn'tl \JVith poop!e. 
•:• Have a profossior"=G! oppeoronce 
•!• Bf:'t oble to operote o ren-·Kyl·e control 
•..• Be crt· leost 'l H yeC:.ll~"> r>!: Cl~·~e· ...:... Be c:Jble ro stonr:-J for lon~J pt7riot:ts of tin""le ..:... Bt:; ot>fe to lift 3tJ.·40 pounds 
•:• ()~vn Knoki pant~ and \:vh!te or I:Jr<:::vJn st~oBs 
(;ondk:kJ1t:.:s rnoy i:.")fJ rE.~quir{":!d to po5S a crlrninal bockqround chec.k ond C! rn;:)tf>r \tf:-hicle record ct"HSH::k os part of the opr)!icotion process. 
Apply today at www.passageevents.cqm 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, October 31, 2006 
Finest 
continued from page 20 
chance to score before the half, but was unable to finish when Caity Shepherd picked off Dunn's first pass of the drive. The interception set up a scor­ing chance for the Finest, who scored on their drive's only play -a long Baron pass to wide receiver Annie Parrett. 
The touchdown, which came as time expired in the first half. affected the morale of both squads. The Chaos seemed fazed by the surprising score throughout the rest of the game and appeared frustrated begin­ning play in the second half. 
Baron led Farley to another score on its second drive in the second half by completing all five of her passes, including one for a touchdown to Diane Duran. The score, combined with the successful conversion attempt, put the Finest up 14-0 with 8:30 remaining in the game. 
Cavanaugh was unable to create any offensive opportuni­ties Sunday. In the second half. two Chaos drives ended with three-and-out situations, and three ended with turnovers on downs. This problem was mag­nitied as the game wore on and Cavanaugh needed two quick scores to get back into con­tention. 
For the Finest, the win means a trip to the playoffs after a decade of waiting. 
"This is the farthest that we've ever gone," Farley cap­tain Kim Crehan said. "It's uncharted territory for us now." 
Farley's push continues next weekend when it faces Pangborn Sunday at 1 p.m. 
"We lost to Pangborn 6-0 in the regular season, so we know what we're going to face," Crehan said. 
Farley coach Mike Healy pointed to his team's five-game winning streak. 
"I see us as the team to beat," he said. "Nobody wants to play us right now." 
Pangborn 12, Badin 0 
Quarterback Katie Mooney threw for one touchdown pass and ran for one more to lead Pangborn to a 12-0 win over Badin in the opening round of the Interhall football playoffs Sunday. 
After both teams punted on their opening drives, the Phoxes put together a six-play scoring drive capped by a 15­yard Mooney touchdown pass to wide reeeiver Meghan Bescher. 
A series of long Pangborn runs set up the scoring pass. 
On the fifth play of the ensu­ing Badin drive, Bescher inter­cepted Bullfrogs quarterback Katie Rose Hackney's pass, set­ting up a Phox possession at midfield. 
The Phoxes again seemed poised to score after two long runs carried them to the Bullfrog seven-yard line. Pangborn, however, was unable to convert on the red-zone opportunity and turned the ball over on downs. 
On the opening drive of the second half. the Phoxes again used their running game to set up a touchdown. Behind four Mooney runs, including the final for a touchdown. Pangborn took a 12-0 lead, which it held on to for the remainder of the game. 
While both the running game and Mooney's leadership at quarterback were essential fac­tors in the Pangborn win, the defense's shutout performance was equally important. 
"Our defense played awe­some," Mooney said. "They really stepped up." 
Mooney was also impressed by the offense's play in less­than-ideal conditions on West Quad. 
"We had no turnovers and didn't make too many mistakes, despite the wind," she said. 
On the opposite sideline, Hackney was disappointed by the loss but happy with the sea­son. 
"Overall, we were a good team, but we didn't show our full potential," she said. 
The sophomore quarterback also expressed disappointment about losing the team's gradu­ating leaders. 
"We're going to miss our sen­iors a lot next year," she said. 
With the win, Pangborn advances to the semifinals Sunday at 1 p.m. against Farley. 
"We're going to practice hard this week, and we're excited to play next W!~ekend and in the stadium for the finals," Mooney said. 
Welsh Family 19, Breen-Phillips 0 
Welsh Family sophomore quarterback Jenni Gargula found sophomore Kricky Szczepaniec in the end zone for the first touchdown of Sunday's game, and undefeated Welsh Family never looknd back in its shutout of Brnen-Phillips. 
That opP-ning drive consisted of a series of completions to Szczepaniec and junior Kelly Bushelle whiln Gargula mixed in a few quarterback draws for key first downs. After the touchdown pass to Szezepaniec, Gargula threw again for the conversion, making the score 7­0. 
An intercP.ption by sophomore Katie O'Connell on fourth down set up the Whirlwinds' next touchdown strike. After a short completion, Gargula found Bushelle deep. Bushelle did the rest, scoring and increasing their lead to 13-0. The Babes' defense won the next battle when it held to deny Welsh its conversion bid. 
To begin the second half, Gargula again strung together a series of quarterback draws, and capped off the drive by finding sophomore Stephanie Bendinelli in the end zone to extend the Welsh lead to 19-0. But once again, Breen-Phillips stopped the Whirlwinds' con­version attempt. 
Breen-Phillips quarterback Melissa Meagher attempted to respond when she completed passes to Stephanie Haggarty and Tara McCarron. But their rally was cut short when sopho­more Meghan Mulhern struck again with another big sack. While the loss ended the Babes' season and their quest for a Cinderella run, captain Megan Ohlenforst said this fall was a success for Breen-Phillips. 
"We had a young team and the girls did a good job over­coming the low expectations and making it into the play­offs," Ohlenforst said. "I know the team will be very competi­tive and successful next year and the season was nothing but positive." 
Welsh Family's defense put to rest any thoughts of Breen­Phillips evening the score throughout thn game. The Welsh Family defense -led by O'ConnPII, Mulhnrn and senior Kristin Smith -continued to shine. On Breen-Phillips' pos­session after O'Connell's inter­ception. the Whirlwinds broke up Meagher's first three pass attempts and forced a Breen­Phillips punt. On thn Babes' next offensivr possession, Mulhern recorded two sacks to end the half with Welsh in con­trol, at 13-0. 
As for Welsh Family, the Whirlwinds will continue their pursuit of playing for tho cham­pionship in the Stadium and finishing the season undefeat­ed. The combination of Gargula's potent oiTensn and the tenacity of the Welsh Family defense makes the Whirlwinds a viable contender for the title. Following the game, nonn of the Welsh Family players wanted to talk about this game, instead focusing on thoir next matehup Sunday at 2 
p.m. on West Quad. '"fh' . tl I 1'1' " h
, , r.s rs .Hl p ~tyo" s, coa~: tom Chesnrck sard. Wn prefer not to talk to tho prnss." 
Pasquerilla West 7, Walsh 6 
With 1:19 lef't in tho game and trailing by orw point, the Wild Women lirwd up on the ball, aiming to put in the one­point conversion and liP the game. 
After feeling prnssurn from a tough-nosed Purple Weasel dofnnsivn linn, Walsh's quartnr­baek launchod a ball to tho elosn side of tlw linld, right on the edge of tho sidelines. The ball bounced off thn tips of an outstrntchod Walsh reeeiver, and despito her bnst el'f'orts. fnll to thn ground. 
Pasqunrilla West senior Brigid Bullin was quick to cred­it her team's sueeess on thn last play of the ganw to its intensity, 
"On that last play I think it was just our ovnrall ennrgy that knocked tlw ball down," she said. 
Pasquerilla West then pro­cneded to takP a cou pin more kneels out of its vietory !'orma­tion to seal tho game. 
After a pair of defensive stops, Walsh rocnived the ball back. needing to drive almost the lnngth of the field. After doing just that and rnaching the final 20 yards, the Wild Women were able to seore on a short touchdown pass. 

Onee thn seeond half began, the Pasqunrilla West defense struek again, allowing its oiTenso to attack for the first time all game. 
Walsh's oiTnnse. which was able to movn thn ball nffnctivnly in the first half but failnd to put points on thn board, startnd the second half with an incomplete pass followod by an in tercep­tion, giving Pasquorilla Wnst thn ball denp in Wild Women territory. 
Pasquerilla Wnst star quar­terback Cara Davies was able to turn tho short finld into an easy six points, converting on a short strike to the front of the end zone. 
Little did Pasqunrilla West know that wh!m it eonverted the nnsuing three-yard extra point, it made all the difference in the game. 
After a defensive struggle in the first half-induding multi­ple intereeptions and many cru­cial fourth down stops -both offenses knew they needed to improve in the second half, going into the break seornless. 
Bulfin was proud of the way her defense steppnd up in the first half. 
"We were ready for them on defense," she said. "We madn some big adjustments." 
While the Purple Weasels may be a great team, eoaeh Jim Lynch knows they still need to make a few morn minor improvements bnforn becoming a championship squad. 
"Physically we're there," he said. "We'll just have to come together mentally now." 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu, Amy Dixon at adixonO 1 @saintmarys.edu and Andrew Kovach at akovach@nd.edu 

OUR CREDIT CARD PAYS You. 
Our VISA" Platinum Credit Card not only offers a low interest rate and no annual fee, but it gives you a fulll% Cash Back*. Plus, you'll enjoy a low 7.9%APR** on ALL balance transfers. You can view your current balance and make payments online. 
Visit our on campus location 021 LaFortune Student Center 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
It's the card that's always in a giving mood. Apply for yours today! 
r4 NOTRE DAME 
..,._ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us to be better 
Tuesday, October 31, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

The Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
presents 
Helen Mack Chang 
RECIPIENT OF THE 2005 NOTRE DAME PRIZE FOR DISTINGUISHED PUBLIC SERVICE IN LATIN AMERICA 
"La muerte es vida" (Death is Life) 
Presented in Spanish with simultaneous translation in English 
Tuesday, October 31,2006 at 7:00pm Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
-
Helen Mack Chang is the founder o£Guatetnala.'s Myrna MackFoundation, which she formed in her quest: foJ; justice for the .brutal 1990 111urd~r of her sister, a.s well as for the· thousands of other citizens who lost their . lives at the hands of the military. For her ongoing efforts to bring justice and reconciliation to Guatemala, she was awarded the 2005 Notre Dame Prize. 

~UNIVERSITY OF 
& 
4tl<ELLOGG INSTITUTE
'W NOTRE DAME 
YJ;;.@sgdfll~utulaliNf 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 31, 2006 

PHIL HUDELSON/The Observer Irish golfer Lisa Maunu reads the green before a putt during the Lady Irish Invitational Sept. 23 at the Warren Golf Course. 

Golf 
continued from page 20 
52nd overall. Junior Jane Lee 
matched Maunu's first round 
total with a six-over 78 and is 
seven-over in her second 
round with three holes to 
play, putting her in 66th 
overall. Freshman Kristin 
Wetzel rounds out the scoring 
with a 14-over-par perform­
ance through 32 holes. 

"Our ball striking was good, but the short game failed us. We didn't convert some easy up and downs," Holt said. "The last ten days we've been fortunate enough to have the indoor facilities on campus to ·practice in. We didn't take advantage of our practice in 
there." 
She emphasized the need to 

relax on the golf course ­especially during the last sev­eral holes -in a team meet­ing last night. 
"Sometimes the harder you try, the worse it gets. Don't make it harder than it needs to be out there," she said. "They need to have faith in their abilities." 
Nakazaki, the program's all-time stroke average leader, echoed the need to finish the rounds strong. 
"It's different for everyone out there," she said. "One person might be putting too much pressure on herself, and another might lose focus out there. 
"But if I knew the answer to finishing well, I'd be playing a lot better." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 
Irish guard Breona Gray drives to the basket against Connecticut Feb. 19 in a 79-64 loss to the Huskies. Gray is one of two captains this year along with senior guard Tulyah Gaines. 
Hoops 
continued from page 20 
for the Irish. In a rneont poll of Big East coaches, Notre Dame was pie ked to finish 11th in the 16-tnam lnague. 
MeGraw, however, has eonli­denee in her squad. 
"I've seen so much from last year to this year that it's amaz­ing how much bettor everyone has gotten," she said. "I feel as though they kind of took it upon themselves to work on their game Iandi they all eame back better." 
The Irish will be led this sea­son by captains Brenna Gray and Tulyah Gaines. 
"Tulyah [Gaines] has become so mueh more voeal, land I she's really taken eharge of the team," McGraw said. "IBreona Gray isl more of a leader by example, by her work ethic, and I think she's done an excel­lent job as well." 
Against the Lakers, McGraw will likely start a veteran line­up of Gray, Gaines, Allen, sen­ior forward Crystal Erwin and junior center Melissa D'Amico. 
The returning veterans will also be joined by a talented group of freshmen that includes Women's Basketball Coaches Association high school All-American Ashley Barlow and Indiana Miss Basketball runner-up Melissa Lechlitner. 
'Tve got pretty high expecta­tions for our freshmen," MeGraw said. "I expect a lot out of them because I think they're capable of doing a lot, so I would say that I really am expecting them to look com­fortable a little sooner than most groups would." 
Ultimately, McGraw believes today's exhibition will help the Irish determine where they stand internally. 
"We want to find out about ourselves," she said. "We want to lind out which groups work together [and] what kind of groups look good in certain ofl'enses." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 


ALL PHONES 
THE POWER TO PICK THE
ARE FREE! 
ONE YOU WANT 

f~""'-·~ 

I 








NOW OPEN! 52991 SR933 South Bend, IN (Corner of US 31 and Cleveland Rd) 

I 
_.,. I
Tuesday, October 31, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 I
, 
JOCULAR 
ALEC WHITE 


CROISSANTWORLD 
S.~t:Et.l'IS, f'-A C.U\...T'/, MI>..INTE.NANc..E. 
\ \-\~\JE CAu.ct> "1"1--\\S 
MEE."IlNI.:l'" To l>I'SC.USS \NI"i\-\ 'Iou ,.. MA-rtER. '"THAT l't> \...\'1'-e:. 10 C\SC.U '5S ~\TH 'JOI..I. 
\N£'\IE. SE.EN RuN­
N \t.l(;:r ON ""11-\E. C.A"T'I-\OL..\C "'TI-\1.-..ll:r' f"ofi!:. 1>.. Wl-\t\.E., SUT 
, -n..,IN\(. \Ts --rn·"t.. rofi!:. A. c:.I-\J>.Ncn;.. 
--r""'~~-.-rs ~ ' A.t-\ l)E. C. f:.e.E:.\Ne::. "T>-\E. NE.VJ 1'\E.t..\C::r\CUS 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

FtR.SI Off" I \N~U... BAE!>L'I A\.L t..OS'f... 
SoMe """e.•<.:rl-\1 vJrt\-\ AI..L THAI W A t..\C.IN \.:r DOOF. lo "PPO~ . HE..'/, \NH'j 'DO 'fOU CxU'(.S l-00\0:. So At-li;(~'J -:S"U!>"T r\tA~ t-1\€.. CUI? 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, I'm getting a
We won! Let's goto form four ordinary words. new car 
YANON 



©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ANBLK 
crrro 

BORCAN WHAT THE: FIRE:ME:N 
E:NDE:O UP WITH WHE:N THEY WON THE: L-OTTE:RY. 
CIJ:[ID 
STRUME 

CXIJTIJ Answer: [II I I )TO [I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: UNCAP BAKED EYEFUL DISMAY Yesterday's Answer: 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Be slack-jawed 64 Boxer's prefight attire
1 Cube creator 34 Pool Erno measurement 65 "Able was I 
6 Rudely ignore 38 Hole-making 66 Kindergartners
10 Computer tool graphics file 39 Is a member 
67 They sometimes format "have it" 
41 "Yes, madame" 14 "Saturday Night 68 Telemarketer's 
42 "You never

Live" alum Cheri aim 
know ... " 

15 Green Hornet's 69 Tea leaf sidekick readers, e.g.
44 Decorative case 
45 Barely manages, 

16 Push for with "out" 
DOWN 46 Narrow inlets 17 Two-time Oscar 
winner Dianne 1 Seating sections 18 Asia's Sea 2 Gas, e.g.: Abbr. 
48 S.F. Giants' div. 19 Roseanne, 50 Map feature 3 See 33-Down formerly 
53 Less 4 Form 1 040 org. 20 Camera type, complicated 5 Popular briefly 
55 See 33-Down Hershey bar 21 See 33-Down 57 Aunt Polly's 6 Do lutzes, e.g. 24 Points a finger nephew, in a 7 Pushers' 
at Twain classic pursuers 26 Leases again 60 Yugoslavia's 8 Six-sided state 27 Nogales nap 9 Ravel classic 
Josip_Tito 

29 Oliver's request 61 Heart of the 10 On fire, as 30 Indianapolis matter some desserts gridder 62 Throw with effort 11 Ramble on 12 White-plumed 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE wader -;:;'1'-:-r:~:-r:::,., 13 Listerine targets T+ri-T+!mpf 22 Spin doctor's 
concern 
-,ri-'l'ri':il:+.i:+.:-1 23 The out crowd 25 D-Day craft 27 Shell game 
-rli:+.ii+:~ 28 Corn Belt state 
-M-ri+.:i+.i:-1 29 List of options 32 Drinks with heads 33 Word that 
defines 21· and 55-Across and 3· and 35-Down 
__.___.__.__, 35 See 33-Down 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address _____________________________________ City _____________ State _____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HoRoscoPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Gavin Rossdale, 38; Kathleen Cody, 52; Henry Winkler, 60; Grace Slick, 66 
Happy Birthday: Times are changing, and you can do the things that you weren't able to·do in the past. Recognize and act upon any opportunity that comes along. You will have the chance to do something on a grand scale. However, at some point you must let go of the past and stop blaming others and yourself for the failures you have endured. Your numbers are 9, 12, 22, 31, 34,40 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): You can do something to improve your financial situation ifyou are smart with your spending habits and your investments. Money is coming your way, but it's what you do with it that will count. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can actually get a lot done today. A project that requires a little extra time and effort will run smoothly. Your professionalism in everything you do will be what counts. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Ifyou play your cards right today, you will have everyone eating out of your hand. Possibilities for love are increasing, so take advantage of this by setting the stage. You will impress someone you are attracted to. ***** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Let bygones be bygones. It will be a waste of time to be stubborn or vengeful. Open up your heart to someone who has more in common with you. Get involved in groups of interest and stop sulking. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll be your usual entertaining self today, and this will put you in the spotlight. Your impressive way of dealing with others will give you the edge you need to boost your confidence. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Put a little time and effort into your home. The changes you make will make a difference to the people you live with as well as to yourself. Money matters can be resolved if you refrain from spending irresponsibly. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): So much can happen if you mingle and mix with people who are self-starters. A money deal is apparent, or at least the chance to consider changing your professional or financial direction. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): What you need to know to make a decision will be made available to you. Keep an open mind, and don't let anyone back you into a comer. You can make money if you consider adjusting the way you do things.*** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be in a prime position today that will allow you to put yourself on the line and make headway. Don't exaggerate about what you can do or supply. You are better off playing down what you can offer.**** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take the safe route and you won't fret or be sorry. Work in the moment, not in the unpredictable future. You have way too much riding on what you do today. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Overdoing it in any way will come back to cause you grief, so exercise discipline. Love and romance can be yours if you are honest. An unusual tum of events may send you in a new financial or professional direction. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Do your best to take care of everyone's best interests. Your unusual approach may surprise someone, but the outcome will be impressive. A love relationship will take a positive tum. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are outgoing and charming yet sensitive and loyal. You have desire and always follow through creatively, making an impact on everyone you meet along the way. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 

36 Mardi Gras, 47 "Let sleeping 53 1950's e.g.: Abbr. dogs lie" and automotive others embarrassment
37 H.S. subject 49 Start of a 54 Clarinetist Shaw 
39 It's alive director's 56 The euro40 Kind of knife directive replaced itadvertised on 

50 Virgo's follower TV 58 All done 
51 Jetson boy 43 Summer coolers 59 Military meal 
52 Shakespeare's 45 Farm female theater 63 Artist's asset 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, October 31, 2006 
page 20 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Top three scorers absent as ND opens season 
year. step up," Irish coach Muffet schedule, McGraw is looking for­Conference. The Lakers return
Irish face Lake Superior 
The Irish lost seniors Megan McGraw said. "I think we're ward to seeing the team play three players who averaged
State tonight at 7 p.m. Duffy and Courtney LaVere to equal opportunity on offense. against someone else. more than 10 points a game last graduation after last season. Last y'ear we relied on Megan, "Its just a great chance to face season, including senior forward Sophomore guard Lindsay maybe a little bit too much, but a team that hasn't seen you Mandi Johnson, who led all 
By ERIC RETTER 
Schrader, who was second on the now is the chance for other peo­play," she said. "You tend to returning players with 13.3 Associate Sports Editor 
team in scoring last season with ple to shine." cheat when you play against your points per game. 
10.5 points per game, suffered a Junior guard Charel Allen is own offense, so it'll be a good Coming ofT of an 18-12 season 
Notre Dame begins its seasonat season-ending knee injury in the leading returning player for change of pace for us." and without their three top scor­home today with an exhibition practice two weeks ago. the Irish after averaging 8.5 Lake Superior State finished ers, many have predicted that game against Lake Superior "We've lost a really good player points a game ofT the bench last 21-8 and advanced to the Div. II this year will be a rebuilding one State -and it will do so without in all ways [in Schrader], but its season. regional quarterfinals coming out its top three scorers from last an opportunity for someone to After a long preseason practice of the Great Lakes Intercollegiate see HOOPS/page 18 
INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 
Any given Sunday, any given dorm 
By KATE DONLIN, COLIN 
REIMER and BILL BRINK 
Sports Writers 
With just minutes remaining in the game, Stanford tailback Tregg Duerson once again broke through the Fisher defensive line and burst into the end zone. The Griffins failed on the two­point conversion, but the touch­down was enough to secure Stanford's upset victory over No. 1 Fisher Sunday. 
After a 2-2 regular season, the Griffins knew the undefeated Fisher team would be a tough matchup. Despite Fisher's domi­nance throughout the season, Stanford captain Brandon McLeod was confident in his team's abilities. 
"If we had long drives and kept the defense fresh, our chances of beating Fisher were very high," he said. 
see GRIFFINS/page 15 


By JOHN TIERNEY, AMY 
DIXON and ANDREW 
KOVACH 
Sports Writers 
Brittany Baron threw for two touchdowns and Farley's defense intercepted two passes as the Finest capitalized on their first trip to the playoffs in 10 years with a 14-0 victory over Cavanaugh Sunday. 
Neither the Finest nor the Chaos appeared to have much going offensively in the first half. Both teams failed to score on their first three drives. 
After Farley defensive back Chrissy Andrews intercepted Katie Dunn's first pass of the Chaos' fourth offensive series, Farley's offense was unable to capitalize and turned the ball over on downs. 
The Chaos had th1~ ball in good field position with a 
see FINEST/page 16 


NO WOMEN'S GOLF 
Notre Dame trails by 13 strokes after first day of Palmetto 
over par so far with only a today," Nakazaki said. "It
Nakazaki in sixth at 3­
few holes left in the second wasn't that exciting, but I did over with two to play round. have four birdies." "We're doing OK. We didn't Freshman Annie Brophy is 
finish well in the morning," currently tied for 40th over­By CHRIS HINE Irish coach Susan llolt said. all. After struggling in the Sports Writer "Of the four scores that first round with a 10-over 82 
eounted in the 11rst round, we -the highest score of the 
Notre Dame ended day one played the last two holes 7-five Notre Dame participants of the Edwin Watts Palmetto over-par." -Brophy is one-under Intercollegiate Tournament in Senior Noriko Nakazaki led through 15 holes in her sec­ninth place al'ter 34 holes the Irish in round one with a ond round. Monday at the College of l-over par 73 and is 2-over Sophomore Lisa Maunu is Charleston in Kiawah Island, with two holes to play in third on the Irish, with an 11­
S.C. round two. She is currently in over-par through 34 holes, 
The Irish shot a 20-over-par sixth place overall with a good enough for a tie for 308 in round one to l'inish in total score of 3-over-par. 
see GOLF/page 18

a tie for 11th, and are 13-"It was all right out there 

NFL SOCCER NFL 
NCAA NHl NHl 
w 

Co:) Peyton Manning USSF in talks with New En~and 31 
Myles Brand calls for Philadelphia 3 Anaheim 6 
z leads his team to game former German national Vikings 
schools to decrease Chicago 0 St. Louis 5 
winning drives, holds team coach Juergen Brady throws 4 
spending on athletics. Peter Forsberg scores Ducks give up two
::5 

= lead role in commer-Klinsmann. touchdowns in the 
twice to lead the Flyers goal lead, but survive to 
over the Blackhawks. beat Blues in a shootout. 
cials. Patriots' win over the
c::r: 

Vikings. 
page 13 page 12 page 12
!;;: page 14 page 14 page 13 







